The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
^-•;^f,J:i::4;^Jw;:i^.y^ft5a;^^iA3l«^f*^^ 
THE NOTRE DAME 


ALUMNUS 
194! Commencement (Pase 3)  
University Affairs (Pages)  
Modern Secularism (Pase 6)  
Sports (Pase 8)  
Spotlight Alumni (Pase II)  
Father Corby Statue  
Vol. 19.  DECEMBER, 1940  No. 3  

^ Merry Christmas 
M L^^HH^Mk 


^^^•riv '%m a. 
1 

THRONED IN HIS MOTHER'S ARMS. CHRIST RESTS IN SLUMBER SWEET — EXCEPT AT GOD'S RIGHT HAND FOR HIM NO HIGHER SEAT. 
— CHARLES L. O'QONNELL. C.S.C.. '06 (IN THE CHRISTMAS SCHOLASTIC OF 1905) 
-

Happy New Tear ^^K ^j!K "^
k
. 



The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This maarazine is published montlily from October to Jane, inclusive (except Jannarr). by tiw Pijfillj f o< Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame. Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1, 1939, at tbe FUtoffiee, Notm !!•••_ T-JI.»«, mder tiw 
act of August 24, 1912. Member of tlie American Alomni Coundl and of tbe National OallKdie Alnmnl Federation. JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, "25, Edilor; WILLIAM R DOOLEY. '26,.Mana^g Eiilor 
Vol. 19 DECEMBER. 1940 

Commencement Forum Session Proposed 
Would be Conducted by Professors for the Alumni 
There is a feeling, that alumni who return for the annual Commencement programs have passed through the BBB stage — which, for the relaxed reader, is a short form for Boys will Be Boys. 
It has become noticeable in the com­ments of the June-visiting brethren that they relish a certain physical let-down that comes with the several days on the campus, but chafe a bit under the mental let-down. 
You can't come in for a breather from a corporation job, or a salies job, or a legal job or medical practice, or an NLRB case, or a plant strike, or a teach­ing job, or an insurance or banking background, and not carry a slight men­tal hang-over which you'd like to toss about a bit. 
And after you have been up at the front in these fields, you can't help being just a- little hazy about how that course in the principles of economics fits in, or what the ethics of this act may be, or where there is room in this argument for Scholastic philosophy. 
And you've been told the answers re­cently only by men who want to sell you something, by men who want you to vote for them, or'by men who are afraid of buying something from you. 
And don't you have at Commence­ment a slight nostalgia for a session in which some of your old teachers — who want neither to sell nor buy — would sum up for you again the basic truths that are the foundations of Notre Dame and the bases of all the courses? Because by the time you're out a very short time, you realize that professors, almost alone in this world, work only to give you the implements for your own salvation. No other group, except the Religious, has so much to give and so little to get. 
Acting on this theory'•— backed by the fact of a growing expressed opinion — the University has promised the Alumni Board cooperation in working out what must be a very broad, but at the same time a very interesting and valuable contribution from Notre Dame to those alumni who expend the time and the • effort and the expense of returning to the campus. 
Simply and briefly, the thought is to present to those alumni interested one or two or three sessions — as your response indicates — in fields of current import and interest. These would probably begin on Friday and continue on Saturday in conjunction with the rest of the usual full Commencement program. 
Will you advise the Alumni Oflice of your reactions? Do you like the idea? 
No. 3 

What subjects would yon be interested in — economics? current history? phi­losophy? current literature? legal devel­opments? scientific progress? 
Whom would you like to hear? We believe that an open forum after a lecture offers the most valuable mutual method of presentation. What is your idea on this? We would particularly like to have this whole idea discussed by the Clubs and Club expression reach us as soon as possible so that we can plan the program accordingly. Remember — this is an idea which seems to offer you MORE. How much more depends on you. And the 1941 pro­gram depends on a prompt and firank expression from you in answer to the above query. 
P.S. The Alumni Reunion this year will be on Friday (Memorial Day), Sat­urday and Sunday, May 30-31, June 1. 


GIFTS 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifb: 
From Mr. Bernard J. Donoghue, '32, Washington, D. C, for pur­chase of books for the library of the Department of Eco^ nomics, and two prizes of $25.00 each for best papers on labor relations and labor problems respectively, to be awarded to members of the Class of '41 : $100.00 
Anonymous: two prizes, to be awarded annually. "The compe­tition to be restricted to history majors and students con­currently enrolled in history classes." Two winning con­testants to share equally in yearly purse of . 50.00 
From Prof. Edward J. Maurus, '93, South Bend, for the University- Library: 554 volumes from his personal library of mathematics. 
From the American Foundrymen's Association, Chicago, for the library of the Department of Metallurgy: Twenty-four volumes of the Proceedings of the British Institution. of Mechanical Engineers. 
From Rev. Ernest Hawley, A.M. '94, Lacon, 111., for the Uni­versity library: Photostatic facshnile (1893) of Privilegesof Christopher Columbus — 1502. 
From Sister M. Therese, O.S.B., '26, Ferdinand, Ind., for the University library: The Annals of Dom Bede. 
From Mr. Frank L. Linton, '34, Chintgo, for the University library: Nineteen volumes of religious books, ttcm the library of his great-great grandfather. Dr. Moses L. Linton, co-founder of the Medical School of St Louis University. 
From Prof. Henry C. Staunton, South Bend, for the University library: Rare edition of Home Sunshine; or. Bear and For­bear (1870). (Sig.) J. HUGH O-DONNELL, C.S.C. President of the University. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 


STUDENT NOTES 
JOE MOVES OUT Blaring, jarring sound waves will no longer shake the mortar of Music Hall, frighten the ghost of Washington Hall, nor penetrate the eardrums of St. Ed's and Brownson scholars. For Bandmaster Joe Casasanta has moved his horn toot­ers far away to the soundproof appara­tus room in the gymnasium. All practice sessions and warm-up periods will be held there hereafter. All's quiet on the Main Building front! 
BOOM TOWN 
Rumors spread the other day that 
under the Notre Dame campus rich veins 
of oil flowed. On Badln bog various people reported numerous puddles stag­nated with oily surfaces. Strategists im­mediately planned positions for towering derricks and pondered likely spots for "wildcats." Dr. Knowles B. Smith, head of the Mining Engineering Department, dismissed these wild ideas when he ex­plained to a ScJiolastic reporter that the geological structure in this vicinity ren­ders difficult any accurate determina­tion of the presence of oil. He recalled, however, similar excitement on the cam­pus 50 years ago when gas shot out of the casing where a hole was being drilled, flamed for several days and then . ceased to flow. This spout was located near the University barns in the vicinity 
of the present Dining Hall. 
DEFINITION History professor T. Bowyer Camp­bell, noted for his exam questions re­quiring brief answers, asked for the definition of the Holy See in his Western Europe class. Came the response: "Jew­ish diction of the Pope." Maybe the Holy Father has learned Hebrew since visiting Notre Dame in 1936 as papal secretary of state. He knew seven languages then, 
— Italian, Latin, French, Portuguese, German, Spanish and English. 
<• 
THE WIND CAME Sweeping across the campus on Armis­tice Day a 70-mile wind, intensified by rain and cold, gave the University one of its worst storms in 25 years and left much damage in its wake. At least 300 feet of the Cartier Field fence were blown down. Parts of slate roofs were ripped oflf Badin, Lyons, and Dujarie Halls and the Dining Hall. Windows in the Main 
•Building were shattered and the Golden Dome, silently awaiting its 1942 new coat, was minus several big pieces of gilding. 
By Georse L HaMicoclc. '39 
Director of Maintenance Rev. John J. Reddington, C.S.C, and his crew of house-wreckers stole the show on the big gale, however, when they finished demolishing Freshman Hall a few hours before the wind struck. Imagine a room full of doorknobs flying through the air! Said Father Reddington: "We got wind of the tempest and beat it to the blow." 
OPEN THE BICARBONATE! Pains in the mid-sections and logginess in the upper-stories bogged down aca­demic routine after the most lavish meal of the year on Thanksgiving Day. Stom­achs suffered from the following menu: 4,500 lbs. of turkey, 100 gals, fruit cock­tail, 15 cases celery, 100 lbs. salted nuts, 40 gals, mixed olives, 36 gals, cranberry sauce, 15 hampers sweet potatoes, 1,000 lbs. whipped potatoes,-20 hampers new peas, 50 lbs. chestnuts, 400 lbs. ruta­bagas, 7 cases lettuce, 30 gals. Russian dressing, 125 gals, soup, 7 cases mixed" fi'uit, 5 cases oranges, 3 cases apples, 2 cases pears, 2 stalks bananas, 50 lbs. grapes, 175 mince and 175 pumpkin pies, 250 gals, milk, 65 gals, coffee, and 50 gals. tea. 
WITH THEIR LITTLE HANDS Baby brother and baby sister have often caused anguish to big brother or sister attending college. Sometimes it was a book report thrown into the fire, or it may have been a notebook whose sheets were disarranged, or maybe pages were torn from classbooks. Thanks to this youthful yearning for massacring books, added significance has been given an exhibition of children's books in the University library. Four editions of the orce popular New England Primer, the earliest dated 1797, feature a display of 200 books. Two million copies of the Primer were originally sold but only 50 copies are extant. Comments Librarian Paul R. Byrne: "Children have always had an inquisitive genius for destroying printed matter." 
• 
HERE. . . John Devlin, junior in commerce from South Bend, is Notre Dame representa­tive in the 158 club of Army draftees. . . . Residence halls were dressed in their best bib and tucker for the Iowa game. . . . Many designs decorated the fronts for the annual hall decoration competi^ tion. . . . Students wishing to play their favorite records may now do so in a spe­cial room in Music Hall provided with a record-playing machine. . . . Two new 
courses. Ballistics and Principles of Eco­nomics, have been introduced into the Engineering curriculum. 
• THERE 
The University Theater players, di­rected by Rev. Matthew Coyle, C.S.C, will present their first production of the year, Sutton Vane's "Outward Bound" on Dec. 12 and 13 in Washington Hall. . . . Special recognition was accorded the Chemistry Department by the Ameri­can Chemical Society in a recent listing of 65 schools in the United States offer­ing adequate laboratory and instruction facilities. . . . Debate Coach William J. 
•Coyne's wranglers will bark out their oratory soon in an effort to equal or better last year's record of 22 wins and 8 losses. . . . The Villagers, one of the most active local organizations, has ac­quired Carroll recreation hall as its ofiicial meeting place and lounging room. . . . Campus students, however, still are welcome to play pool and ping-pong.. . . Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C, has accepted the post of chaplain of the club and Robert H. McAuliffe, assistant prefect of discipline, has become adviser. 
• HERE AGAIN. . . 
"Scrip," literary quarterly, made its first appearance of the 1940 schoolyear last month under the capable editorship of Felix Pogliano, senior from Denver, Colo. .. . A new feature of this year's edition, which is bound in light buff stock with simple, blue lettering, is a column of random comment on various essay topics. .. . Two volumes of re­search material for the film, "Knute Rockne — All American," have been given to the University by Warner Brothers. . . . The volumes, which are bound in red morocco, indexed, and stamped in gold, contain pictures that were taken in Norway, Hollywood and at Notre Dame. . . . The original sce­nario has been included in the present. . . .' Another book by a Notre Dame writer recently released is "The Catholic Church in Indiana, 1789-1834," by the Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C, head of the History Department. . . . Seventeen Notre Dame students have made their solo flights under the Civil Aeronautics Board program. . . . Moaning and groan­ing filled the classrooms recently when the announcement was made by the Director of Studies office that all pro­fessors will be required to give exami­nations immediately before the Christ­mas holiday. . . . The compulsory exams, 
which will count approximately 10 per cent of the final grade, are intended to prevent the numerous absences that have usually characterized the pre-vacation period. 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
UNIVERSiry AFFAIRS . . 
CATHOLIC HISTORICAL INDEX 
A card index on American Catholic history numbering over 225,000 entries and said to be the only file of its kind in the country has been in preparation at the University since 1934 and will be completed in another three years. 
Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C, '25, Notre Dame archivist who is directing the work, declared that graduate stu­dents and research workers in American Catholic history, for whom the file was set up, have already found it of immeas­urable value. Requests for bibliographies prepared from the new file have been received from many sections of the coun­try and insofar as possible. Father Mc­Avoy said, the University will continue to supply bibliographies to research his­torians. Several writers have come to the University to take advantage of the file material. 
The file includes an analytical index of the contents of the most important periodicals in American Catholic history. The cards contain a sentence on every person, place and date mentioned in the volumes and while one file is arranged chronologically the other is set up ac­cording to alphabet. Nearly three hun­dred students have worked on the index and all entries are checked three times before being filed. Father McAvoy per­sonally checked all entries during the first year to make certain that the form he had to set up was satisfactory. 
"The file," according to Father Mc­Avoy, "makes available to students much Catholic historical information that would otherwise be lost. The magazines covered in the process contain articles, documents, and other items of historical import, and after the material is ex­tracted and filed it is a simple matter to find practically all available information on a man or event regardless of impor­tance. 
"The file has turned up considerable information that would probably have been lost and much that has not been in­dexed elsewhere. There are also items on personages in American Catholic history not known generally, and information on persons known, but not usually asso­ciated with the type of item recorded." 
Historical works already covered in­clude American Catholic Historical Re­searches, 29 volumes; Records of Ameri­can Catholic Historical Society, 48 vol­umes; Catholic Historical Review, six volumes, and St. Louis Catholic Histor-­ical Review, five volumes. Indexing of the Illinois Catholic Historical Review and Mid-America has started. Eventually all other local Catholic historical reviews will be covered. Father McAvoy esti­mates that at least three years will be re­quired to complete the work now in sight, but that the project can be exr tended to include other periodicals. 
Forty-five students are engaged this year in preparing the index, but as many as 60 have worked on it in one year. Every five men have a supervisor who checks the cards before they are typed, and finally a chief supervisor checks the finished cards to insure against error. 
ENGINEERING FOR DEFENSE 
Nearly 150 men from South Bend and vicinity now in industry will receive ad­ditional engineering training for defense industries under a government program, according to the plans of the University which have been submitted for approval to the United States office of education. 
Under the program young men in in­dustry who have all or part of their work toward a college degree, or the background of a high school diploma and the equivalent of some college work in actual experience in the field, can avail themselves of night classes at Notre Dame, pursuing subjects pertinent to their jobs. No costs will be incurred ex­cept . for textbooks, instruments and transportation. 
A representative committee from local industrial plants headed by Dean Dugald C. Jackson, of the College of Engineering, has completed preliminary 
Qualified Notre Dame men should, whenever possible, avail themselves in their own communi­ties of the advantages of the engi­neering courses being offered to aid national defense, in the opinion of Dean Jackson, of the Notre Dame College of Engineering. He advises them to ascertain whether such courses are being offered in the colleges or universities close to them and then to take appropriate steps through their employers to enroll in these courses. 

plans for the course expected to begin not later than Jan. 2. 
All classes will be under the adminis­tration and complete supervision of the University, and students enrolled in the courses will be given access to instru­ments, machines, laboratories and li­brary at the University. Recommenda­ti«ns for students have come from em­ployers in various industries. 
All classes will be held at Notre Dame. They will extend from 18 to 20 weeks, two nights a week, with classes of twp-or three-hour duration. The minimum number of students for each class will be 15 and the maximum number will de­pend upon the laboratory facilities in the particular course. 
The proposed outline of courses will offer classes in production engineering under Prof. .C. Robert Egry; tool and die design, taught by Prof. George Rohr­bach and specialists from industry; chemical analysis of metallurgical mate­rial, taught by Profs. E. J. Wilhelm. R. 
E. Rich, A. J. Boyle, and L. H. Baldin­ger; and physical metallurgy to be taught by Prof. Edward G. Mahin. 
Of the 37 members of the law class of 1940, 32 had taken examinations for admission to the bar, at the latest report from Professor John H. Whitman, of the College of Law. For the five other mem­bers, no report of examination has as yet been received. Of the 32 who have taken the examination, 27 (84.4%) have passed, and five have failed. 
A hydraulics laboratory was begun by the Civil Engineering Department in the summer of 1940 and will be put into operation during the second semester of the current schoolyear. 
A 5,000-gallon reservoir was con­structed in the laboratory. Out of it, water will be pumped by a 500-galIon­per-minute pump, driven by a 50 hp. electric motor. The water will be forced through a four-inch pipe at a pressure of 100 pounds per square inch, and can be drawn from this pipe at frequent in­tervals and used for experimental pur­poses. 
Experiments performed in the lab­oratory will include such fundamental things as. study of friction in pipes, effects of bends and constrictions in pipe flow, studies of metering devices and of small hydraulic machines. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Origins and Development of Secularism 
By ROSS J. S. HOFFMAN. Mj\., Ph.D., LLD., LitLD., 
Professor of History, Graduate School, Fordham University. 
(Ed. Note: The ALUMNUS is privi­ileged to present to Notre Dame men. one of the excellent and timely essays from a vohime, "Man and Modem Sec­ularism," published by the National Catholic Alumni Federation as an oiit­growth of its last convention, of which the general theme was the volume's title. This particular essay deals with a very important background for the under­standing and action of the Catholic lay­man in resisting the further encroach­ment of secularism and seeking remedies for the evils it has already superimposed • on our American loay of life.) 
Father Raymond Corrigan, S.J., in the glossary of "isms" appended to his book, "The Church and the Nineteenth Cen­tury," defines secularism as the "exclu­sion of God and religion from life." The Catholic Encyclopedic Dictionary gives much the same definition: "The teaching that the foundation of morality, duty and religion is to be sought in nature alone, and that, therefore, the teaching aids and sanctions of supernatural reli­gion and the Church are of no account in human conduct." Other dictionary definitions are similar to this one, and I presume this is what we all mean in talking about secularism at this con­vention. 
The Protestant Revolution 

Were I to confine myself to the main lines of a history of thought that has led from a Catholic vision of reality to the secularist vision, I should have to go back to the Protestant Revolution and to the rise of sectarianism and individualism that issued from that revolution. I should have to deal with the seventeeth century degeneration of religion from something that called for a corporate social mem­bership into something that was mere religions ideology and opinion of ever-diminishing certitude. I should have to deal with that great, divorce between reb'gion and life, which became evident in the seventeenth century and opened the way, throughout much of our civili­zation, for the world of thought and Action to go down a road unlit by the 
. lamps of spiritual illumination. I should have to show how a spiritual void was created by this separation, and how ra­tionalism, naturalism, pantheism, mate­rialism, positivism and atheism entered that void. I should have to deal with capitalism, democracy, liberalism, social­ism, science, industrialism, education, and every other force that has made it­self felt in the formation of the contem­porary moment in the history of Chris­tendom. In short, I should have to g^ve an historical explanation of the follow­ing excellent picture of the present which Professor Theodore M. Greene, of Princeton, has recently drawn: 
Professor Greene's Words 

"Wherever we turn we come upon men in positions of authority who are wordy demagogues or irresponsible the­orists rather than statesmen; artistic faddists rather than creative artists of true vision; scientists who repudiate the validity of insights other than their own; narrow theolo^ans and emotional evan­gelists who have lost contact with a liv­ing Deity and the vital needs of man­kind; educators with no inkling of the nature and goal of true education; phi­losophers content to dismiss all vital philosophical questions as 'meaningless,' and historians unable wisely to interpret 
•the facts that they discover or to make the past enlighten the present. No won­der that our culture, though infinitely superior to other cultures in specialized knowledge and techniques, is so lacking in spiritual quality, so insensitive to the higher values and so madly determined to use its own achievements as instru­ments of self-destruction." 
Quoting these words serves a double purpose. They give a good rapid sum­mary of the more obvious and visible results of the acid-like action of secnl­larism on our culture: a summary made by a man, let us remember, who is nei­ther a Catholic nor an extraordinarily acute and penetrating social thinker. (Simflar judgments, indeed, can be picked almost at random from any number of modem books.) And second­ly, those words will impress upon yon, I am sure, how universal throughout all spheres of culture has been the influ­ence of secularism, and how impossible it is, therefore, for me to relate its his­tory this evening. 
In the past thousand years there has come about, in the western nations of Christendom, a complete transformation in the character of civilization and the structure of social-political life. Our culture, to be sure, in the strict sense of the word, is still the same culture. I do not agree with Oswald Spengler that the culture of the West was a new creation formed in Gaul and the Rhineland about the end of the ninth century. I believe rather that our culture — that is. our unique community of thought, spirit, and tradition — is the culture of Chris­tendom, and that Christendom as a so­cial, spiritual, cultural organism achieved its being, with all essential elements and ingredients, in the patristic age of Chris­tianized classicism. But as for our civili­zation, by which I mean the sum of ouir arts and skills, our every-varying forms of organizing social life and ceaseless diversification of human activities, that, I say, has undergone a complete trans­formation. 
It has been secularized, as many will say, and undoubtedly this has taken place almost simultaneously with the growth of that which is rightly called secularism in the more strict sense of the word. And there are many who seem to think that these two developments are but two aspects of the same development which is, I think, a great error and an error that impedes the Catholic aposto­late of our day. 
Change in Civilization 

When we think of our past thousand years as a whole, what impresses us most, I think, is the change from an ecclesiastical to a lay civilization. There has taken place a great withdrawal of ecclesiastical persons and institutions from that direct and practical guidance of human affairs which prevailed gener­ally in the partly decadent and partly primitive society of the early middle ages. In that chaos of rotting pagan cul­ture and untamed barbarism, the mission of the clerical order was not merely the propagation of the gospel and the dis­pensing of the sacraments, but the total­itarian discipline of society. It included the upbuilding of political authority, the creation of legal institutions, the found­ing of schools and hospitals, the building of roads, reclamation of lands, the teach­ing of agriculture and all the practical arts by which man transfigures the na­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
tural world and shows forth that free­dom and creativity which are in his na­ture hecause he was made in the image of God. 
That civilizing mission was discharged, that work was done, and only the most ignorant enemies of Catholicism — only men totally devoid of all historical knowledge and understanding — would now deny the excellence, the human ne­cessity, and full historical justice of that work; or refuse to agree at least with Lord Macaulay that "it is better that men should he governed by priestcraft than by brute violence." 

New Era I* Opened 

So well indeed was that work done, that there was opened a new era of dvi­lization and enlightenment in which a diversiiied and autonomous lay activity, physical and spiritual, became possible. A new kind of human being had been raised up through long centuries of spir­itual re-birth. The Church had disci­plined minds and souls; it had drawn men out of a barbaric dream world into the world of natural and supernatural reality; it had combated superstition, driven out demons, and made it possible for men to perceive that there is a na­tural order of existence with its own independent laws. By doing all that the Church had made men fit at last to take up again the creative and progressive work of a free activity, in this natural order, for the upbuilding of civilization. 
There was no one point, of course, at which we may say that this mission was discharged. South of the Alps and the Pyrenees it was largely accomplished by the thirteenth century; to the north it necessarily continued much longer. I speak, of course, only of our own ances­tral past in the life of Western Europe. For this mission of direct and practical eccleasiastical guidance has never actu­ally ceased, but goes on today wherever it is unfinished, and will always go on for so long as apostolic activity encoun­ters primitive or decadent cultures. It may even be that western nations shall sink again into a barbarism that calls for a renewal of this mission. 
Now this great development of a pre­dominantly lay civilization has, I say, been often called the rise of secularism. In many books you will find the whole story brought together under that head­ing. It will begin with the Renaissance and go on to the French and Eussian Revolutions, and the centi^l theme will be denominated as secularism, or the secularization of western civilization, or the growth of secular interests and ideals, or some other such topical state­ment. And very often the story is so told as to make the whole development ap­pear as an essentially anti-Catholic de­velopment, as a sloughing-off of Catholi­cism, from a new order of life to which the Church was alien or irrelevant. For there is still a commonly-held notion — indeed, it is one of the doginas of a still powerful positivist sociology — that the old clerically-guided society was a cry­stallization of specifically Catholic social, political and cultural ideals. 
Indeed there are Catholics who also imagine that this was so, and they go on from that kind of reactionaary medieval­ism and an unhappy confusion of nature and grace, of the temporal and eternal, of Church and State, of politics and religion, of religion and culture; which confusion leads them to fancy that only the ecclesiastical and the clerical is truly Catholic, and to express political and sociological views that would be more appropriate to a Byzantine or Islamic society (where all human activity is fused into a sacred mold of life), than to a genuinely Catholic society in which distinctions are clear and there is free­dom, diversity, and dynamic progress. In such views, it appears to be forgot­ten that the enduring mission of the Church is not to clericalize but to Ca­tholicize human society, using whatever means, at any given historical moment, are available to that sublime end. 


Pre-eminently Lay Civilization 
When that mission is accomplished, what arises is not a clerically-directed but a pre-eminently lay civilization, and all the more Catholic for having this character; recognizing the autonomy of the political, the scientific, the cultural, and perceiving clearly the essential, pri­mary arid permanent work of the Church to be the sanctification of souls, towards 

•which all other ecclesiastical activities have their justification only as temporal and instrumental means. For the Church, as Mr. Chrisotpher Dawson has recently said, "is the hierophant of the divine mj'steries, not the teacher of human sd­ence nor the organizer of human culture, which belongs to a region that Tuis its own laws of life and its own right of self-determination and self-direction.' " 
Hence it is that the great dvilization of the West risen up in the last seven centuries, with its manifold lay, or secu­lar, institutions, and its immense achieve­ments in moral, intellectual and material progress, is far from being a defeat or dei nial of Catholidsm; but is the fruit of Catholic work and genius. The Church did not directly create it, of course; and to many it may even seem that the Church has had little to do with it; but the great truth, and deep truth, is that the Church historically formed the kind of men who were capable of launching this creative work. For it has all risen from the knowledge that the human spirit is free,' from a confidence in reason, and from a bold investigation of the autonomous natural order. 
This Has Been Christendom 
All these have been ours because this has been Christendom; for nowhere else have they existed; and nowhere else can they, exist. Upon them all modem dvfli­zatioh depends, and not merely in the sense of necessary historical preparation, but as a continuing spiritual nourish­ment. Let this knowledge of freedom fail and men lapse again into the old fatalism that defeats and paralyzes the will. Let rational certitudes weaken and men surrender guidance of themselves to emotions, appetites, pragmatic hunch­es and mere instincts. Let violence to the laws of the natural world bring back the demons before which men cringe in terror from the face of nature. Let all this happen, and we shall see again the shipwreck of our dvilization and a sink­ing back into that barbarism, servitude, superstition and bestiality from which the Faith oncie extricated us. 

Never in fact was a dvilized order more desperately dependent on sustain­ing spiritual forces than is ours. Others that are less complex and dangerously fragile, less bold and adventuring, less organized, making less demands on the individual soul and character, hut more obviously dominated by visible institu­tions, such others, we may be sure, can survive more easily than ours a weaken­ing or corruption of spiritual roots. 
Hence it is very plain, when we think only a little about it, that although these two kinds of secularism of which I have spoken — the rise of lay dvilization order and the growth of an athdstic exclusion of God and religion from life 
— have developed side by side in recent centuries, they are not allied movements, but fundamentally antagonistic Secular­ism, strictiy defined, is the mortal enemy of this grand edifice of human achieve­ment. For it destroys nourishment, kSls roots, rots everything from within. In­deed, it is no i>aradox to say that this spiritual disease will undermine a lai­cized order more surely and more fatally than it will attack an order that is deri­calized. 
When we dedicate ourselves, as at this convention, to fighting against it, our cause is not a reactionary attack on modem dvilization hut a defense of that which alone makes {lossible its con­tinued progressive development. 
The Notre DameAlumnus 



By WILLIAM E. SCANLAN. "42 




ATHLETICS 
FOOTBALL Still somewhat of a mystery team after eight games, the Notre Dame foot­ballers left early this month for Califor­nia for the final game on the 1940 sched­ule — with the 1940 Rose Bowl Cham­pion team from Southern California at Los Angeles on Dec. 7. The Irish, who breezed past College of the Pacific, Georgia Tech, and Car­negie Tech in impressive style, continued the assault against Illinois at Cham­paign as 63,186 spectators — the largest crowd at Champaign in 11 years — watched the Layden men score three times in the first half and coast to a 26 to 0 victory. Steve Juzwik, 185-pound right halfback from Chicago, led the as­sault with two touchdowns. The first came on a 29-yard pass from Bob Sag­gau in the first quarter, the second on a 16-yard dash around left end. Bernie Crimmins, Louisville, reserve fullback, and Steve Bagarus, South Bend, alter­nate right halfback, added the other scores. The play of Juzwik dominated the game — he picked up 95 yards in eight attempts. A week later, Juzwik continued the sensational play by taking a spot aside Christy Flanagan and Jack Elder, heroes in past Irish-Army grid annals, by snatching a pass near the end of the 

Tackle Jim Britz 
first quarter to scamper 84 j^rds for the game-winning touchdown to beat Army. The Cadets- outplayed in earlier games, arose to the occasion and handed the Irish oflfensive its firet great defensive test of the season. Johnny O'Brien, right end from Swissvale, Pa., broke up an Army field goal attempt by partially blocking Ted Lutrykowski's kick in the first quar­ter. The play of Heniy Mazur, West Point's triple-threat halfback, took stai-­ring honors for the day. 

Another outstanding crowd, totaling final period. Captain Milt Piepul crashed more than 75,000, watched the mighty into the Iowa line on the 12-yard stripe. dash of Juzwik at New York's Yankee The ball bounded out of Milt's arms and Stadium, in the 27th annual battle be­Captain Mike Enich, Iowa's great right tween the two aggregations. tackle, snatched the ball in mid-air and 
ran to midfield before Piepul caught him. 
Bob Saggau, senior left halfback from Four plays later, Bill Green, Iowa's 60­Denison, Iowa, turned in the greatest minute fullback, ripped off right tackle game of his career to spark the Irish to for five yards and a touchdown. 
a last-period comeback triumph over the Captain Piepul, displaying his ability Na^'y at Baltimore. With the Irish trail­ing, 7 to 6, in the fourth period, Saggau dropped back, faked a pass, then dashed around end to score with the chips down. In the 78-yard last-quarter drive which culminated in that run, Saggau passed for 52 yards, caught another for 18 yards, and gained the final seven himself 
— accounting for 77 of the 78 yards. 
Earlier in the game, Saggau hurled a 32-yard fonvard to Bob Dove, sopho­more left end from Youngstown, Ohio, for the first scoi*e. Another newcomer who showed well in the game was Ray Ebli, Ironwood, Mich., junior. Ebli caught two passes to help keep alive the 78-yard game-winning drive. 

Fullback Bernie Crimmin* For the second consecutive year, the Hawkeyes of Iowa — coached by Notre to carry the ball successfully against one 
Dame alumnus, Dr. Eddie Anderson — of the best lines in the nation, picked up shattered an unbeaten string for the 67 yards in seven attempts — an average Irish. This time the men from the west, of better than nine yards per try — but 
who have never lost to Notre Dame in the effort wasn't enough to cope with football, took advantage of two Irish the all-around strength of Northwest-fumbles and an intercepted pass to turn ern's versatile and offensive-minded an apparent Irish touchdown into a 7-0 backs who marched to a 20-0 victory Iowa victory at Notre Dame. Late in the at Evanston a week later. 
1940-41 BASKETBALL ROSTER 
Player  Home  Town  High  School  Age  Wt.  Ht.  Exp.  
B&sarns,  Stephen  F.  South  Bend,  Ind.  Washington  21  160 5:11  1  
Browning-,  Robert  Francis  F.  Battle Creek, Mich.  St.  Philip's  18  187 6:3  0  
Butler,  Charles  Joseph  C.  Chicago, Bl.  Mt.  Carmel  20  160 6:2  0  
Games, James  Robert  F.  Muncic,  Ind.  Central  21  165 6:1  1  
Chapman,  Francis  Warren  C.  Cumberland.  Md.  LaSallc  Institute  19  193 6:3  0  
Del  Zoppo, Albert  Joseph  G.  Niagara  Falls,  N.Y . Trott  Vocational  2B  160 6:0  2  
Dinn. Robert  Emmett  F.  Indianapolis.  Ind.  St.  Mcinrad's  19  170 6:3  0  
En;?e1. James  Mahlon  G.  Albany.  N .  Y.  Vincentian  Institute  19  200 6:2  0  
Fisher,  Robert  G.  Milwaulvce,  Wis.  " Wauwatosa  19  180 6:0  0  
Gillespie.  Charles  Joseph  C.  Indianapolis,  Ind.  Cathedral  21  185 6:3  1  
Kelley, James "Williams  C.  Lexington.  Ky.  Millcrsburg  Mil.  19  190 6:2  0  
O'licary,  Charles  Joseph  G.  Cincinnati,  0 .  Roger  Bacon  19  165 6:0  0  
Pope,  Arthur  WelUnjrton  F.  Chicago. 111.  Morgan  Park  21  163 6:0  1  
Quinn,  Francis  Bernard  0.  Indianapolis.  Ind.  Cathedral  20  170 6:2  1  
Rensberger, Robert LaMar  G.  Nappanee,  Ind.  Nappanee  19  170 6:1%  0  
**Riska, Capt Edward Joseph  F.  Chicago,  m.  De  La  Salle  21  175 5:11  2  
*Ryan,  Lawrence  Patrick  G.  Chicago,  m.  Fenwick,  Oak  Park  22  177 6:1  2  
Singer, Cyrines  Howard  C.  Jasper,  Ind.  Jasper  23  173 6:1%  0  
*Smith, Robert  George  G.  Joliet, HI.  Joliet  20  165 6:0  2  
*Sobek, George  Edward  F.  Hammond, Ind.  Hammond  20  175 6:0  1  
Stall,  Robert  John  G.  Wilmette,  HI.  New  Trier  18  170 5:11  0  
Vinciguerra, Ralph Joseph  F.  Akron.  Ohio .  North  18  162 6:0  0  
Yezerski,  Florian  Albert  F.  Shamokin,  Pa.  Coal  Township  25  168 6:1  2  

•—Indicates nimiber of monograms won. 

It was the third Northwestern victory in the series which started in 1902, and the iirst over Notre Dame since 1935. Northwestern called off classes on the following Monday to allow students to celebrate the triumph. 
Highlighting the play of Northwest-em were Bill deCorrevont, dangerous passing, running and kicking back, Alf Bauman, sensational tackle, and Don Clawson, husky fullback, who marked up two touchdowns. The Wildcats count­ed once in the second period, and twice in the third. Late in the game, Irish re­serves, with Quarterback Paul Patten leading the way, moved to the Wildcat 20 before the offensive stalled. Two of 

Capt. Ed Ritka, Forward 

the Wildcat touchdowns came on third down, and one on a fourth — after Notre Dame had braced and had ap­parently stopped the threat. Bob Oster­man, hampered most of the season by injuries, continued the sensational de­fensive play as center for the Irish. He hails from Detroit. 
Commenting on the season thus far. Coach Elmer Layden said: "Some of our early opponents, because of injuries, were below par. And even when we played strong teams, they didn't give us much trouble because everything we tried worked. Then later when we had to buckle down, we didn't know how. There is no substitute for hard work, for ruggedness, and for toughness." 
Line Coach Joseph Boland, who de­nied receiving an offer to coach at Mar­quette as rumored in midwestem news­papers, blames the collapse partly on the injury plight that struck the center po­sition. At the beginning of the season, the pivot men lined up in this order: Osterman, Gordon O'Reilly, Chicago, Tom Brock, Columbus, Nebr., Jim Mc-Hale, Detroit, Jim Ford, Binghamton, 
N. Y., and John Lanahan, Jacksonville, Fla. Lanahan, a B squad performer, reached the second team during the Army game, and McHale, was with the first team, despite an injured shoulder. 
At no stage of the season have all the centers been available, and on no two consecutive week-ends have the centers lined up in the same one-two-three order. This, says Boland, has hampered the timing and rhythm of the backs, since this finesse depends upon knowledge of the particular traits of the fellow who starts the plays. 

BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame swamped Monmoutli, 81­34, and Kalamazoo, 73-39. The Irish total against Monmouth was the high­est in local court history. 
Playing a doubleheader with Kalama­zoo and Monmouth colleges, Notre Dame opened its basketball season at home on Nov. 30. Coach George Keogan, begin­ning his 18th season as head coach of the Irish, faced the problem of develop­ing a center to replace Captain Mark Ertel and Hex Ellis, who shared the pivot post last season. 
With George Sobek, junior from Ham­mond, Ind., on the sidelines because of leg injuries, Jim Games, Muncie, Ind., junior, stepped into a starting assignment aside of Captain Eddie Riska of Chica­go. Ralph Vinciguerra, Akron, Ohio, and Art Pope, Chicago, are other leading forward candidates. 
Charles Butler, Chicago sophomore, Pbrank Quinn, Indianapolis junior, Cy Singer, Jasper, Ind., sophomore, and Jim Kelley, Lexington, Ky., sophomore, have been battling for the center spot. Joe Gillespie, senior center, was sent to the sidelines by a sprained ankle. 
Larry Ryan, Chicago, and Bob Smith, Joliet, HI., monogram winners, have been teaming at the guard positions with help from Bob Rensberger, Nappanee, Ind., and Jim Engel, Albany, N. Y., both sophomores. 
The 1940-41 basketball schedule fol­lows: Nov. 30—^Kalamazoo at Notre Dame 
30—Monmouth at Notre Dame 

Dec 7—^Illinois Wesleyan at Notre Dame • 14—^^Visconsin at Madison 19—Michigan at Notre Dame 23—^Illinois at Notre Dame 31—^Northwestern at Evanston 
1941 Jan. 4—Kentucky at Louisville 
6—Wabash at Notre Dame 11—Butler at Notre Dame 18—^Pennsylvania at Philadelphia 20—Syracuse at Syracuse 25—^Michigan State at Notre Dame 

Feb. 1—^Marquette at Notre Dame 4—North Dakota at Notre Dame 8—^Northwestern at Notre Dame 14—^N. Y. IT. at Madison Square Garden 22—Georgia Tech at Notre Dame 24—Butler at Indianapolis 28—Michigan State at East Lansing Mar. 8—^Marquette at Milwaukee 12—Detroit at Detroit All Home Games at 8:00 P. M., O. S.I. 
OUie Hunter,. sophomore from Erie, Pa., finished second in the National Col­legiate Cross Country championships at East Lansing, Mich., on Nov. 26. Notre Dame finished' fifth with Indiana win­ning. Gilbert Dodd of Ashland, Ohio, college set a record of 20:30.2 for the four-mile course to win; beating the 1939 record of Walt Mehl, Wisconsin, by seven-tenths of a second. Hunter was timed in 20:40. 
Tony Maloney, Notre Dame, was 14th, and Campbell Kane, Indiana, landed 18th. It was the first oflSdal track event under the direction of Bill Mahoney, successor to the late John P. Nicholson. The indoor track season opens in Feb­ruary. 
• 

RICE RUNS AGAIN 
Greg Rice, 1939 Irish track captain, who has been turning in outstanding records since his collegiate career closed, opened the 1940-41 season by winning the sixth annual CYO and Central AAU Thanksgiving Day cross-country title at Chicago's -Jackson '•Park. TTis time of 
15:03 for the 3-nule and 188-yard course lowered by 24 seconds the mark established by Mel Truitt of Indiana two years ago. Max Lenover, Loyola University star and defending champion, finished second. 
Rice may run in the Sugar Bowl games at New Orleans on New Year's Day. 
Guard Larry,Ryan 

1941 FOOTBiSaj:- ;^ ^: 
• University of-Arizona will open Notee Dame's 1941 football schedule, which was announced on Nov; 30 by Director of Athletics and Head Football. Coa«h Elmer F. Layden. Arizona replaces Pa­ciiic;as the opener. 
:' llie card contains four home :ganies and.five away from homej.definitely pnt^ ting at rest & rumor that ail games miglit be played at home ih/view of the'U'fii­
(Continncd on Page 31) • -'•• 'i " 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 



NOTRE DAME BOOKS. . . . Defense Program 
Catholic Principles of Politics: by John 
A. Ryan, LL.D., '17, and Francis J. Boland, '18; the Macmillan Company, New York, 1940; $3.00. 
The perennial question of the rela­tions between Church and State, aroused anew by President Roosevelt's appoint­ment of Myron C. Taylor as special en­voy to the Vatican, finds an adequate and clearly presented answer in Catholic Principles of Politics. The present work is a revised edition of The Church and the State by Ryan and Millar, a book enjoying wide acceptance for two decades. 
The authors are primarily concerned with the ethical and moral aspects of the State. For a world that seems to have substituted force for reason the necessarily rational basis of any en­during society is clearly set forth. 
No more condensed and comprehensive statement of the scope of the present book can be found than the following excerpt from the preface. 
"We have attempted to present an essentially adequate discussion of all the religious and moral aspects of the State. We have tried to answer the fol­lowing and kindred questions: What is the State? What is its relation to the Church? What is the ethical basis of government? Whence do civil rulers ob­tain their moral right to rule? Do gov­ernments 'derive their just powers from the consent of the governed?' Does the individual exist for the State or the State for the individual? Should the State be merely a limited policeman? or a universal provider of every good thing? or something between these ex­tremes? Are the ordinances of the State merely civil counsels -with the intermit­tent sanction of physical force, or are they true moral laws? What are the duties and what are the rights of the individual citizen? What is the normal Catholic attitude toward the American State and' American political institu­tions? What is the rational meaning of patriotism? What manner or spirit must animate the nations if they would re­store and preserve international peace?" The liberal indnsion of papal encyclicals ^ d other ofiBcial Church pronounce­ments ^ves the answers a solid ring of authority. 
Catiiolic readers will learn that their political conduct is bound up with their eternal salvation. Catholics are required by their faith to obey all just laws -pipmolgated by ilie State in the exer­cise of its divinely ordained authority, to vote in elections and perform their civic duties, and to resist any attempt by the State to encroach upon the spiritual domain of the Church. This book provides Catholics with a ready answer to all objectors who allege a conflict between their faith and their national allegiance. 
Non-Catholic readers will learn that the Church is not a super-State, that it has reserved for itself the spiritual or­der and left the temporal domain to civil government. 
Besides picturing for us the Christian State the authors point out erroneous conceptions of the State, viz., Commun­ism, Fascism and Nazism and tell why the Church cannot accept them. 
Readers of this book will have a clearer conception of the essentials of international peace: A family of na­tions, patriotism confined within ra­tional limits, that nations as moral per­sons must be governed by justice and charity in their dealings with one an­other, and the universal observance of international law.—Harry L. Murray 
KELLY ELEQED 
Harry F. Kelly, '17, was re­elected secretary of state of Mich­igan at the Nov. 5 election. Con­cerning his victory, the Detroit News had the following editorial: 
Efficiency Rewarded 
Conspicuous among Michigan oflSce holders who survived the election is Harry F. Kelly, Secre­tary of State and a Republican. Tens of thousands of ballots must have been split in his behalf, since his total vote will outrun that of any other candidate for any ofBce in the state. 
The citizen's contact with the in­cumbent of this office has to do usually with licensing his car and himself as a driver. These ordi­nary functions were handled, under Mr. Kelly, with competence and good sense, which was also evident in the selection of types of license plates and the new system of num­bering them, and particularly in a reluctance to project himself and his name into the public iiotice in the various manners to wMch the office had lent itself under bis predecessors. This self-advertising was, in the main, carried on at fhe public's expense. That Mr. Kelly felt he could do without it has done him no harm, it appears, at the polls.—^Detroit Newt 
Is Planned 
Committee Appointed at N. D. by President 
Preliminary plans for coordinating use of Notre Dame facilities and per­sonnel in the national defense program were outlined recently at a meeting of the.Notre Dame committee for national defense. 
This group, organized at the direction of Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, presi­dent, is headed by Rev. John J. Cav­anaugh, C.S.C, vice-president. Other members are Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C, Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C, Rev. John Reddington, C.S.C, and Deans Henry 
B. Froning and Diigald C Jackson, Jr. 
Numerous curriculum changes have already been arranged to aid students in preparation for future military and naval activity. A civil aeronautics admin­istration prog^m of pilot instruction was inaugurated last summer and is being continued during the current schoolyear. University facilities have also been of­fered to the government for the train­ing of industrial workers in specialized fields, such as tool making and machine design. 
During the second semester courses in ballistics, trigonometry and allied fields will be offered by the Department of Mathematics • to students who plan eventually to seek military or naval commissions. 
Aeronautical courses designed to pro­vide a backg^round for students who are interested in aviation but not primarily in flying are being offered for the first time this semester as electives for non-engineering students at Notre Dame. 
Rapid expansion of the aviation busi­ness in recent years with its many op­portunities in the sales and operations division has created a new problem for University authorities. 



NO JANUARY ISSUE 
FolloiHnK its practice of several years' standingr, the ALUMNUS wiU have no Janaary issne. The Febmary number will, accordinc to present plans, be mailed in the final week of January. Secretaries of the clubs and of the classes are asked to have their next copy at the editorial office not later than January 13. 



SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI 
rpHE NOTKE DAME delegation in Con­
gress was increased to four on Nov. 5, when Joseph P. O'Hara, '20, Glencoe, Minn., a Republican, was elected to the House of Representatives from the sec­ond Congressional district of his state. 
With him in the House will be Vincent 

P. Harrington, '25, Democrat, from Sioux City, Iowa, and Robert A. Grant, '28, Republican, from South Bend, both re-elected. D. Worth Clark, '22, Boise, continues his term as United States Sen­ator from Idaho. 
Joe O'Hara worked his way through Notre Dame, starting in the old St. Joe Hall and graduating in his senior year "to the opulence of Corby Hall." In be­tween the start and the finish, however, he had 27 months in the service of his country during the first World War. 
Practicing law in Glencoe for the past 20 years, Joe has found extra time to be a county attorney as well as state com­mander of the American Legion. Mrs.. O'Hara. (the former Leila White, of Holden, Mo.) and he have three boys: Pat, now a freshman at Notre Dame, Ed and Terrence. 
Joe defeated in his race a man who had served three terms and who was the lone Democratic Congressman from Min­nesota. And Joe's victory was in face of the fact that President Roosevelt carried Minnesota on Nov. 5. 
"rpms IS BERLIN" .. . It's a good bet 
that when tomorrow morning yon hear those words coming out. of your radio, via CBS, youll be listening to Harry B. Flannery, '23, former news analyst for KMOX in St. Louis, who was recently appointed a member of the Co­lumbia Broadcasting System's foreign news staff and assigned to the German capital. 
Harry B. Flannery 

Harry left in a hurry, by way of trans-Atlantic Clipper. A note from him, writ­ten in Barcelona on Nov. 5, just as he was about to continue his journey to Germany, expressed regret at two things: 1) that he hadn't heard of the outcome of the U. S. presidential elec­tion; 2) that he hadn't heard, of the out­come of most of the Notre Dame football games. "And this was the fall I expected to see two games," he said. 
Harry's appointment to a post of ex­treme importance at one of the world's crucial points is a culmination of his years of experience in news-handling. While he was in high school in Hagers­town, Md., he worked for the local paper. A journalism major at Notre Dame, he was the first editor of the Notre Dame DaUy, editor of the Dome, and art editor of the Juggler. Followed newspaper work with the Baltimore Sun, Albany Evening News, Decatur, 111., Herald, the Chicago City News Bureau and the Hoosier Observer, of Port Wayne, Ind. His first radio work was with WOWO, of Port Wayne, as news and sports editor. He went from there to KMOX in 1935.' 
A TTOKNEY GENERAL of Wisconsin 
for the second time is a Notre Dame man, John E. Martin, who was re-dected at the Nov. 5 election. 
A native of Green Bay, Wis., John at­tended the University of Wisconsin lor three years before he came to Notre Dame in 1914 to enroll in the Law School. His two years under the dome were followed by two years in the army of the U.S.A., from Aprfl, 1917 to June, 1919, as a member of the 127th Com­pany, 32nd Division, A.E J*. Wounded in action, John was awarded the Purple Heart 
He was admitted to the practice of law in Wisconsin upon his return £rom the army, and was with the firm of Mar­tin, Martin and Martin, in Green Bay, from 1919 to 1929. In 1929 he moved his practice to Milwaukee and there, in 1932, he became first assistant district attorney. He was assistant attorney gen­eral, in chai^ of the banMng depart­ment, from 1933 to 1935, resumed the private practice of law in Milwaukee in 1935, and was elected attorney general of the state on the Republican ticket in 1938. And then his re-election. 
Joseph P. C'Han 
JabE.Maiti> 

The Notre D a m e A I u m n u $ 
«

ALUMNI CLUBS 
field, Mass.; George E. Erwin, treasurer, R.F.D. No. 1, New Britain, Conn.; John P. Cavanani^ secretary, 1062 Boulevard, West Hartford. Conn. 
After a virtual lapse of activities during the summer, the club has been gradually getting back in gear. On Oct. 4, the club members met to ob­serve Knute Rockne Week, and enjoyed the pro­gram from Notre Dame. Flans were made for a Communion Breakfast, which was subsequently held at Father Patrick Qoinlan's Corpus Christ! Church, Weathersfield, en Oct. 27. T%venty-two members attended. 
The club has completed plans for its annual Autumn Dance, to be held at the Indian Hill Country Club. New Britain, on the night.of Dec 7, to celebrate the end of Notre Dame's season and. we fondly hope, the day's victory over South-em California. It is hoped to add to an infant scholarship fund, recently begun, if the affair is as profitable financially as such dances in the past , have been socially successful. 
Recent additions to the Notre Dame group in this area are: John (Clipper) Smith. *27. While John holds a responsible position with one of our large aircraft companies, he continues his notable football career as line coach at Holy Ooss, com­muting to Boston by air. 
John F. Bonrke. '31, is now located in Man­chester, Conn., and shows up for every meeting, including that of Knute Rockne Week, where he added to the festive aspects of the affair by an­nouncing the fact that he had that day just be­come a father — in favor of St. Mary's, however. John represents the Cowles Detergent Co. of Cleveland in this area. 
John P. Cavanansh. 

CLEVELAND 
CncUu J. Satiiic, 12, Balkkr BUr.-, 
P"rift»t; Dr. Hynn E. Gtmwfard. 12, De­
tnlt-CMk BUr. LdttwMd. Sccniaiy. 

The annual football rally of the club was held Nov. 23 at the Fischer-Rohr restaurant. The affair was well attended, and a nice contribution was miide to the local Scholarship Fund. The party was a particular success for the winner of the attendance prize which was a "full expense paid Westward Ho round trip for two to the N.D.­
U.S.C. game in Los Angeles." For reasons known to all those who ever had to make a Bill DMiey deadline, the winner of the prize will be an­nonnced in the next letter. Hie success of the party was, in no small measure, due to the untiring eiforts of Nicfc Eafing, Ckarile Rohr, Clayt LeiMS. T* K (Telephone) Byrne, Jee Sween­ey, and Jade Beidy (whatever happened to his brother. JertyT). 
Chairman Bad Kaddatx and his Christmas Dance committee and some of the officers of the club on diestra to furnish the music in the Eaclid Ball­room of the sutler Hotel (that, that Merrissey!) on Saturday. Dec 28. Cleveland's newest band sensation brings with it lovely vocalist Jean Kas­sel to entertain at this breakfast dance, already unique in the fact that it will be held on a Sat­urday eve. Readers of the "Ahmmus" who desire the services of a dance band will do well to con­tact J m BdJMt of Cleveland, s fact to which Chairman Bad will attest. Including Maestro Jm . Bad is being assisted by Art (Art) Becrar. Pat (Ftomotion) Canny. CkaiUe (Arrangements) B«hr. Karl (Good-Will) Hartentcdc. Gene (Old Faithful) Kaae, Ed (Youth wiU be served) SAioe-
TAe 7940-7947 Alumni Board 

Very Kev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C, '99, Notre Dame, Ind—  Honorary PresidmU  
Ray J. Eichenlanb, 15, Columbus, Ohio  Presidnt  
Clyde E. Broussard, '13, Beaumont, Texas  ___Ftr8t Viee-PresideiU  
Thomas F. Byrne, '28, Cleveland, Ohio—  Second Vice-President  
James £. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, Ind._  ^^eeretary-Treaswrtr  
William E. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind..  A.88istant Seeretmry  
Francis H. HcEeever, '03, Chicago, I1L_  Director to 1941  
Edward F. O'Toole, '25, Chicago, lU  Director to  19^  
John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich.  Director to 19iS  
William J. Hooney, Jr., '16, Indianapolis, Ind- Director to 19H  

Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17, Chicago, I1L„ Ex-Offiao Director to 1941 
Joseph H. Mulqueen, '40, Notre Dame, Ind. 
AKRON 
Jouph J. Wozniak. '29, 2116 First Central :.•- Tnwt Co., President; Glenn Smith, '27, 2022 .; First Central Tower, Secretary. 

On Nor. 11, we held our first committee meet­ing on the Notre Dame Christmas Ball. We have selected Dec 28 as the date, and extended invita­tions to all Notre Dame folk in northern Ohio. 
'Here is the committee: general chairman. Joe Krsker; invitation committee, Hoeh Colopy, chair­man, D»n Bradr. Art Erra, Frank Steele, Bob Kolb, Chick HcGnckin; hall committee. Bob Joyce, chairman: ticket committee, Clandc Homing:, chairman. Dr. P. C. Doran, Joe Wozniak. Dr. James G. Kramer; publicity committee, AInrray Powers, chairman, John Doran, Jr., Snke Stoley, Glenn Smith; decoration committee, Tom ftlariiey, chairman. Forest J. Swartz, John Moir, Steve Wozniak; patrons and patronesses. A] A. Hilkert. 
Ihis Christmas dance is really the outstanding event of the holiday season in Akron. We have built this dance up over a period of nearly 20 years to a point where it is comparable to the Charity Ball. 
Amons: newcomers to the club, we have Steve Sitko. '40, quarterback for tivo years on the first team. 
Glenn Smitlu 

BUFFALO 
Um d T. O. Saath. 'SS, 424 HiOn St . Pre*­
Meat: J«ha H. Timrcn, Jr.. m, 191 North 
SU flccwUiy. 

At our last meetins we held a bowling party for our loyal members. In appreciation for their devo­tion we save them a free party and, believe you me^ they really were pleased. Among: the members attendinsT were Carl and Bob Narcl. Tom Condon. Frank and Bill CMBS. Bob Moore. Harty Ryan. Jim Moulder. Frank Bennett. Tony Brick. Li Smith. Chndc Ernst. Frank Reppcnbasren. Gns Jcnkina; Nonn Anderson and Frank Kellner. The bowlers were in srand form and Chuck Emat led the way with a brilliant 245 score. 
We had quite a few of our members at the Kotre Dame-Army srame. Those making the trip, sponsoteA by oar club, were L! Smith. Joe Ryan. Jshn Warren. Frank Bennett. Cari NaEcI, Frank Rcpptnhacenr T*m~ Condon, Ted Flanaean. and yours truly. We all had a great time and met our beys at the Hotel Pennsylvania after the game. It was really grand to see some of the old class­
Director to 19JU 

mates again and bull sessions were held late into the night. 
Ron Zndeck, '30, has gone into the optical busi­ness and is doing very well, Blanrioe Qainn left for Gamp Dix where he will serve Uncle Sam the next year, ftlarty Travers was elected a director of the Junior Chamber of. Commerce. 
Joe Fay. *30. of Medina, is working in Buffalo at the duPont plant and we hope to see him at our next meeting. Tony; Brick is a successful law­yer in Tonawanda. Latest reports have him listed as a substitute judge. Steve Banas. '33, is an exec­utive in the Bethlehem strip mill and plays pro football with the Buffalo Indians. They were hon­ored by a thousand employees of his plant during the intermission of a Buffalo-New York Yankees 
Jokax H. Traven, Jr. 

CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) Hidu d J. Lediar. "U, IMT raOnpto 8 C Sdunectadjr. Pnsidcat; Edwin W. Tsasftikg. '34. 401 UaiM St^ Sdwnectady. SMntoiy. A group from our club braved the Saturday morning rain to motor to the Army game. We saw one of our ex-presidents. Jack Land, who is doing well for General Electric Company in Phila­delphia. 
The Rockne Memorial T^phy annually presented by the club to the winner of the Catholic High School League, was won by the La Salle Institute of Troy. The other teams in the league were Vin­centian Institute of Albany and Christian Broth­ers Academy, also of Albany. 
A new member of our club in Schenectady is Jack Wilson. General Electric Company was re* sponsible. Larry Weiss must have proved himsdf as a financial wizard since the Knights of Oolum­hus Council has him as its financial secretary. Gharies Flanigan is another man energetic in Catholic circles as secretary of the Catholic Youth League. 
Ed Kenefakc. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
John M, Ciand. '29. CO Brooklawn St^ N« r Britain. President; John P. Caranaa^ *28. 1062 Boalerard. West Hartford, Secretary. 
The officers of the Notre Dame Club of the Connecticut Valley are: John BL Cianci, president, 60 Brooklawn St . New Britain, Conn.; J«ha B. SaOiran. vice-president, 33 ^wthom e St., Spring­

ter. Bob (Governor) Hackman. and Al (Governor) 
Lawtoxu 
FriU Slackford addressed the Football Rally committee and some of the officers of the club on the merits of the local alumni clubs at a meet­ing of that group at Rohr's early in November. If you have never heard Mr. Slackford on this subject, do so at your earliest convenience (or his). 
Les Raddatz is vacationing and putting on weight in Arizona, and feeling bigger and better than ever. We can't keep up with all our vaca­tioning friends, so watch the club notes from Tucson, Ariz*, for news about Lea. 
Dr. Frank Gannon has deserted Newburgh. and is now residing in Garfield Heights, with his Maggie and little Jimmy. 
Johnny Doyle, our membership secretary, prob­ably knows more about Clevelanders and local Notre Dame than anyone in town, but when is he going to put it into print and turn it over to Crcmwell-Crooks ? 
If this message should fall into the hands or under the eyes of Bill (Chicago) Smith. Tom Mc-LansMin, Tom Crosby, Francis DonoKbae. or John (Lefty) Cox, let each and every one of them consider it an invitation to the Christmas dance. 
When are you holding your Annual Retreat? Mike Crawford. 
DETROIT 
Jay L. Lee, '12, 1717 National Bank Bldgr., President: Victor J. Schaeffner, '33, 832 Federal BIdr>. Secretary. 

Monday night, Nov. 18, 80 members assembled for dinner and election at the Whittier Hotel. Re­sults: president. Jay L. "Biffy" Lee; vice-presi­dent, Malcolm F. Knaos; secretary, V. J. "Vic" Sdiaeirner; treasurer. Dr. Neil J. Whalen. For trustees, Charles Martin and Judge Thomas C. Murphy were reelected, and John W. Brennan and L. J. "Lnrry" Gemon were elected to succeed 
C. Marc Verbiest and Line Wnrzer. 
Retiring President Howard F, Bcechinor was given II great send-oflf. A resolution was read commending him for his efforts the past two years, and, in addition, the club presented him with a token of $100 in appreciation. 
Malcolm Knaos. 

GRAND RAPIDS 
FrancU J. TbnUI, ex. '31, 317 Bond, N.W., President; Georce A. Jaekoboice, '31 327 Front Ave.. M.W^ SecicUiT. 

You will recall, no doubt, that when Rocham­beau arrived at Newport with his French army he introduced to America the cocktail, ice cream, and the brass band .. . so now, too. it is only proper as a matter of history that I submit as a contribu­tion to' the American scene these hitherto un­revealed facts. . . . 
Fred Gast trotted off on Oct 17 to the old hitch­ing post at Beacon, N. Y^ for a double harness with Miss Mary Dugan. After a honeymoon cruise on the "America** to the West Indies, the Mr. and Mrs. will reside in Grand Rapids. PbUip Fritz— whenever you buy an ice cream cone yon pay trib* ute to his freezing cabinets—also put on a wedding garment and as an usher thrilled at least one Beaconite I 
E. Joaepb Moore also found Mary Margaret Fredericks to be the wifely apple of his eye. and now they are jolly friends forevermore-
Tom Campbell relaxed from his sums at Seld­man and Seidman. public accountants, long enough to scamper off with one of the football ticket awards raffled by the Grand Rapids Club for the lowa-Kotre Dame game. John Broffcer, to maintain the membership monopoly on luck, walked away with the two remaining prizes. 
GladitMie Bfd>ermott, Leo Walsh, Benedict Mc­Ginn, Joim.Wither, Joe Decb, and others of the downtown tycoons gather Friday noons at the Elks* Cafeteria for fillet of sole and a round of bouncers. 
Ray Bonini has been transferred to Ann Arbor where he has been promoted by the Michigan Bell Telephone Company. A. John Ait with his wife and babies is now located, lock, stock, and barrel, in his new colonial home on Oakleigh Road. 
Advertisement: "In London it's Lloyd's — in Cedar Springs it's Rau's," says Donovan J. of his 20-miles-from-Grand-Rap ids-insurance-agency. 
Jim Sweedyk and Jack Ley are arranging plans for an informal club party to be given at an early date. 
Now, down with the trolley; it's the end of the line. Secret Operator No. 9. 
DES MOINES 
Charles H. Lynch, '29, 407 Soothcm Swety 
Bldr.. Pxc^dent: WiHUm R. RoblMn. 'S3, 
4th Floor, Iowa BMr*, Secretary. 

The Notre Dame Club of Des Moines held a get-together for members, their wives and girl friends, the parents of the Des Moines boys now at Notre Dame, and a few friends, at the Cabin of the Hotel Fort Des Moines on Oct. 4, to listen to the Kate Smith broadcast. After the broadcast we moved to the preview rooms of the Fox and Para­mount' offices for a preview of "Knute Rockne— All American." 
Several men. new to Des Moines, were present —Bob Tieman, who is associated with the Mere­dith Publishing Company, and Jack SavKaa. 'who is with the Lalley Service Company. 
Club President Charles Lynch represented the 
University at the inauguration of Samuel N. 
Stevens as president of Grinnell College on Oct. 25, 
Bill Robison. 

FORT WAYNE, INDIANA Henry J. Hasley, '28, 404 Peoples Trast 
BIdff., President; fifanriee J. DeWaU, "33, 
2415 Habortns St , Secretary. 

The Notre Dame Club of Fort Wayne has been holding noon luncheons. So far they have been well attended. President Henry Hasley is doing a fine job as head of our club. 
At our last meeting Herman Centlivre pre­
sented a survey to the members asking what type 
activities our club should indulge in besides our 
luncheon meetings. Answers will be discussed at 
the next meeting. Ed S. SolUvan, '24. is pleased 
to announce the birth of Steve E. Sullivan. Ed 
boasts that he will be all-American quarterback in 
1961. Frank Corbett. '30, was unsuccessful candi­
date for congressman of fourth district on Nov. 5. 
Maorice J. DeWald. 

GREEN BAY, WIS. 
John D. Clancy, ex. '35, 525 Clay St.. Presi­dent; James E. Envcls, 115 S. Madisni St.. Secretary. 

GREEN BAY 
The student club composed of current under­graduates from the Fox River Valley will give a dance on Friday, Dec. 27 in the Conway Hotel in Appleton, Wis. They extend to all alumni and former students of the area a cordial invitation to attend. 
HIAWATHALAND (Miclu-Wis.) 
Robert E. LeMire. '38, 421 Second Arc . S.. Escanaba, Midi., President; Fruds B. Langrill, '30, 2004 EUa Coart, Marinttts, Wis., SecreUry. 

The club entertained Ardi Ward, sports editor of the Chicago "Tribune." at lunch in Escanaba, on Nov. 13. Arch was in town to he the chief speaker at the football banquet of the two local high schools. John Lemmer, '18, is superintendent of schools in Escanaba. 
JOUET. nXINOIS _ *21. MA O^^^b Sb. PraUnti Hwaid H. n^ Wiirlrt SH Kdr SI;. Stcntuy 
Had a very pleasant visit from Kcir. Bra. Law­rence Joaeph, '25, on Nov. IT. He is now' located at De LaSalle Institnte, Chicago. Brother had been down to NJ>. for the Iowa game. 
EdKfaw. 

KANSAS CITY, (MisMuri-KaaMs) 
Jafea J. O'CMMT. '34, 4US Hncte St. Kanas Qtr. MIL. Fririii.t; Noaaa M. Bmni. IS. $S2S KMUdD ffiii.Ti»Mi Otr. Ma.. Saciataiy. 

The campus dob will entertain with its annual Christmas party Dec 28 at the Hilbum Chih. Beservations may be secured by calling the oSicers of the campus dub after Dee. 21. 
Personals: Jae SieMcr. '31, cracked the strtsnK Democratic blodcade by winning the county attor­ney post in Effingham County. HL. at the recent election. Taai QuinhB. '38, of Hontpelier, Vt.. was in these parts briefly the middle of last month, and was talten for a round of the local bowling alleys by Dave Crailri, Eiaia Kauiii. and UUk Bawes. Lea Kadiatji^ '33, of Cleveland, was through here enronte to' the West Coast. Bill Cale. of Par­sons, Eans., recently down with the flu, is up again and banging away at those large Kan^ii jackrabbits. Jae Hakadi has recently been trans­ferred to Wichita with the Air Bednetion Sales Co. Frank Tayne. '39, is working in Chicago with some engineering firm. BiB Sbaw. of "Rilsa. Okla., called while en route to Chicago, to report that the oil business was again booming. Query was made recently about those two St. Joseph opera­tors, Mike Fagarty. '33, and Jae CadleU. '34. Jim Marray and Jae Stewart have been splitting the maple on the local alleys this fall. 
The Alumni Association extends its sympathy to Jiai Bn y on the death of his mother: and to Maailce CarraU on the loss of his danditer. 
Narmaa M.  tmm.  
LOS ANGELES  
&  GMW  i n  U U  Kan  

BMK.. Ill, AMtffit^ Pnridmlt Dalr. ax. 'an Sn Di»ili» Am, 

Oct. IS saw a Inndieon that was somewhat ira­promptu due to the fact that we called it on Monday when we got word tlut Ber. J. Ha|^ O'DMUMU. C.S.C could attend that day. It was held at the Biltmore hotel and was attended I T over 50 of the club. Besides Father ODonnell there was Fatker Hcaly from sdiool, and Jade BeMy and Jerry Oltowd who were out here to attend the Congress of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine as the representatives of Notre Dame. 
Jim McCaka was responsible for the arrange­ment and Ckaiiie Gaaa presided. I was nnable to attend but according to reports the affair was a real success, Lt. Ward and Judge A. A. Scatt were there as the IncUxme of the meeting. Frvdc Beny. BiB Caak. Fred PivK. and & Benllty Bran were among those present, and ItiM H and Henry Datk.elfcr took time off from campaigning for their brother Jdbu in his drive for the district attorney's office (whidi, by the vray, be won) to come aroond and icia the crowd. Father Oftaudl told of the way things are at school these days and gave some ideas as to the improvements planned for the future. 
Our weekly luncheon idea got a setback doe to the fact that we were not able to get a private room at the Clark HotcL Then I was out <tf town and CkaiBe (Saaa got involved in a lot of work and JisB BicGake went east on business. Ha alao took in the IllinaU game Int was onable to get back to the N.IX campus, as he had planned, dot to press of busineas. That, combined with the pta­election frenzy, kept us from setting things started properb*. However we finally got a private room at the Alexandria Hotel where we held a luncheon Nov. 8. Ed Cwmincliam, Gene Kennedy. Tad Waldi. F. T. Madd. FUn Swmnson. J. W. EcUy, Tom Walih • and Leo Ward were there among others. 
Martj- Daly. MILWAUKEE Esrl HeCarron, '25, Home Owners Loan Cmrp^ PretSdent; Jolm E. Oander. '34, 1219 
W. VUct St^ Secretaiy. The Board of Directors of the club held a meet­ing on the night of Oct. 31. All members were in attendance. And since the organization was found to be out of the deep red, financially, since its successful football rally they gave Brother Vcnard, 
CS.C^ at St. Charles Boys* Home, a kindly check in the amount of 950.00. 
Bin Brown was elected the new head of the committee on placement. This is a bjg job and needs serious and complete cooperation on the part of all the locals. Door prizes at the Football Rally were tickets to the Iowa and the North­western games. Tickets were won by friends of Bob Sanford and Jim Effinger. 
Tlie father of John and Jim Corrigan died sud­denly during the last month. Hie club was repre­sented at his funeral. James is studying at the Jesuit Seminary at Florissant, Mo. John is work­ing locally at interior decorating. 
Neil Gleason has been busy as an agent for sev­eral large financial houses, but he took time to bring an old friend from Florida, Jchn Webster, to the rally. John is an artist, now working for a local printing house. 
John Vosm r^jorts an interesting experience in the routine of his F.B.I, work when he was in court some time back. He saw Dan 5IcOoskey, an attorney from Janesville, District Attorney Mc-Dongml of Antigo, and State Warden Burke of Waupun in one case at the Federal Building. John also reports a visit from John Deane, who was in the state for a short time. 
Red Hesrden pictures covered a considerable part of the .sport sheet in honor of his "sujier­man" football team at Green Bay's leading high sdiool. Bed has had successful high school teams ever since he left Notre Dame. 
Bin Nnss was elected to State Assembly from a district just north of Milwaukee. He went in with a fine total of - votes that buried the opposition. We should report that John filartin also went back to Madison, as attorney general. 
Bob Latx just came back from New Orleans, and he will talk about their good hunting and fishing down there until state authorities hear about it. Eaii HcCarrra met Gns Stange, of Mer­rill, while duck shooting. ' 
A newcomer to Milwaukee is Bob Schmidt, of Employers Mutual Insurance €^. Bob is from Elscanaba originally, but comes here from his company's home office at Wausau. 
Frank Holdampf is still dnging loudly, as at school, but now he's with the K.G. chorus. So is Bin Callini. They tell us Dan Hiuhek won a tur­key on the K.C. alleys.. 
Amo Hacbnbrvdc is busy as they come. He is working for the state military architect, and in these war conscious days they are erecting arm­ories mighty fast.­
Merry Christmas, boys. Panl Brust. 
MOHAWK VALLEY (N. Y.) 
Lester Lnlcr. '2C, CM N. MadiMn St, .BMM . PrwMiBt; Edwmrd J. Sweeney, *30. MIS Miller St., Utics. Secretary. 
Met some of Hxe hays at the Army game and 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
though they were a bit disappointed in not having 
a larger score we were thankful to have beaten 
a great Army team. Guess the public forgets that 
Army is always good when they play Notre Dame. 
Saw Art McGee, assistant mancger for the 
Metropolitan Life, now located at Glens Falls, 
N. Y., at the game. He had the wife with him and they both looked grand. Also saw a few other lada but did not have a chance to speak to them. I reca,ll, among these, Andy Aman and Tom Fer­riter. At the Roosevelt Saturday evening Guy Lombardo introduced Milt PiepaL 
Ed Sweeney. 
MINNESOTA 
Fnmk Mayer, *27, Nortfaem States P«int C c St. Pa«l, PresideBt; Geeiye McDenMtt^ 714 New Toifc BUg.. St. Paal, Secntur-
Hie club had a smoker at the Town and Counttr Club in St. Paul on Nov. 6. It was well attended. 
The club will hold its annual Christmas dance in the Continental Room of the St. Paul Hotel on Dec 28. It will be formal and the committee in charge has arranged for two orchestras. All Notre Dame students and former students and friends who are in the Twin Cities at the time are in­vited to attend. 
Joseph P. O'Hara, one of our club members, was 
elected to Congress on the Republican ticket r^re­
senting the second Congressional district, of Min­
nesota. Joe lives in Glencoe, and has always taken 
an interest in the Notre Dame affairs in the Twin 
Cities. Congratulations! 
George T. McDeraott. 
NEW JERSEY 
Harvey P. Rockwell, "34, 1202 Essex Hene, 
104S Broad St. Newark, President; Aadrew 
E. O'Keeffe, '33, Box 363, New Branswick, SecretaiT. 
We, the Notre Dame men here in Jersey Ci^, got together and raised $200 and sent 2,000 deserv-. ing boys to see the picture "Knute Rockn'e—^All American'* on Oct 25. 
The men who worked on it were. Frank 1 '33, George Wenz, '34, Mdrray Booth, '33, 3m 
B. Clark, '33, Gerald Rothlein, '37, Paul Morrison, '38, and Hany CMealia, Jr., '42. 
We had the Hudson College Glee Club sing the Notre Dame songs and then Panl Morrison and I gave talks on Rodcne. All in all, it was a very nice affair, and I Idiow the boys enjoyed i t 
James B. Clark. ' 
Warner Brothers treated the club to a preview of "Knute Rockne—All American" on Oct 5, in Newark. About 300 people, including members and friends, turned out for dinner and the show. Audience reaction was 100 percent favorable, par­ticularly among those members who had the privi­lege of knowing Rock in person. 
The annual Hard Hmes Dance came off on IVi­day, Oct 25. Chairman Jim Qoinn gave aU who attended an ejoyable evening's entertainment Cli­max of the affair was the wind-Qp of Pete Qainn's work as chairman of the annual Army game ticket distribution. Fortunately for the reputation of the committee, no member won any prizes. 
Most of the members of the New Jersey Club made the yearly pilgrimage to Ruthtown-by-the-Harlem for the Army game. Harvey RodkweD was there, accompanied .by the newly-acquired Mrs., formerly Miss Alyce Eavmnangh. Also Tom Treacy, Tom Farrell, Den SaUiTsn, Pete Qoinn, and nearly all the rest of the New Jersey crowd. One vha missed was brother Jade O'Keeffe, who was Inniy celebrating the arrival of a son, George Christo­pher, bom that morning. 
Pete Qoinn, Ray Geicer and the Winffierter brothers were a few of the New Jersey group who traveled to Baltimore for the Navy game. Tbey report seeing Jack Saonders, Bas Redgate, Wamn Fegel, Harold Robinson, Ray HcCannm, and Beb Mossey—long a Jerseyit^ but now living in Wilmington, Del.—as well as many others—a whcle trainload of others. 
The dub held its first business meeting of the year on Nov, 4. FVineipal subject of discussion was the coming New Year's Eve Dance, of which Sam' Celarwiso is chairman. As in the past two years, it will be at the Robert Treat Hotel in Newark— on Dec 31. If it's as popular an affair as it was last time, those who want to go should get their reservations in soon. Both last year and the year before the SJtO. sign was out before Christmas. 
Andy O'Keeffe. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Hmrud Paricer, '17. 21t State BMc Sui F^aaciH3», PraUcat; Bebert L. McP—oR It, 1132 Arteere Ave.. Oakbuul. Secretary. 
Hie broadcast of the Notre Dame-Army game was the occa^on of another get-together for the Northern CaUfomia alumni at the Army-Navy Club in San Francisco. Among those attending were Haward Paiker, Harry Bart, 'TUie" Byrne, Tan Fitzpatrick, Rabert HUl, BiU Rapp, Paal Cashing and Dan Saffivan. The favorable outcome of the game insured a swell time for all there. 
We are, as this is written, all looking forward to the Southern California game and a chance to renew acquaintances with the campus through the football team. Howard Parker reports that quite a few of the northern California alumni will be in Los Angeles to cheer the team on. 
NEW YORK cmr 
Vi*ut A. Hudttm. '21. CS Wall St, FTM-UcBt; Pwd MitelrWr, cz. 'S5. aT.O^ 4U M»ilw An , SKntaiy. 
Fanfare, hilarity, hand-shaldngr, tumultuoos cx>­plaose, spine-tinslinfi; feelinss. s:aiety. deliques­cence and a hundred other phrases and adjectives couldn't descrilie the annual Reunion and Rally of the local cluh. Even Hollywood took a back seat on the eve of Nov. 1 when the local NJ). maestros. . producers, scenario writers, glamour boys, etc, outdid themselves by statins another successful evening of entertainment and fun for the 2,000 people who jammed the grand ballroom of the Hotel CommodDre. 
Ber. Jahn Cavanawh. C.S.C.. vice-president of the University, honored the satherins by his presence as the official representative of Her. J. Hadi WOwBrntO. C.S.C.. president. Father John (No pin? for the cough medicine) had to wait until he became a vice-president'before seeing an Army game. His brief hut inspiring message made a hit with the crowd and his intonations later on the air must have thrilled thoosands of listeners. The United States Army was represented by Col. 
H. T. Supplee, who substituted for Gen. Hugh A. Drum, commander of the First Army, who ab­sented himself the last hour because of official business. Haj. Ernest R. Dnpny, director of public relations, was the designee of West Point. 
Ftaada Wallace, from Bellaire, Ohio, and other points in the United States, again H.C'd the eve^ nine's festivities in the ballroom and on the air, and his renditioning was snperb. Jack Hoyt, Jr., was also "in the groove" with his sideline remarks over the mickey mike. Father Gannon, SJ., prexy of Fordbam, laid them in the aisles with his Irish brevities. He abo tried to unravel the mystery of an annual aell-oot for the Army game. 
Other satellites end biggies on the program were Etawr. the Broadening Ibin Man, Ltjitni Grantland. Dean of Sports Writers, Bioe; Arck. Star Game Promotor, Ward: Judge Bill O'Dwyer. 
D.A. of Dodgertown; Phil Began, the singing cop; Brian O'Heara, the Irish Warbler; Elmer Stonewall Oliphant. Chris Cagle, Eddie Dooley (no kin to BUI, the insistent chap who promotes and gets this obit column, who was also there) • 

J. Arthur Haler, the man most appreciated each year on his arrival in New York; Joe Boland; Federal Judge E. A. Conger; Commissioner of New York Police Lewis J. Valentine; ex-Mayor John O'Brien; Genial Postmaster General Frank 
C. Walker; Martin Sweeney, president of the Com­modore Hotel; Jimmy Crowley; Bev. George Mur­dock. Catholic chaplain at West Point; Richard L. Reid, Laetare Medalist and editor of the "Catholic News" (personal plug of PJ.M.'a) Steven Owen, coach of the New York football Giants; Art Daley. Joe Higsins, Christy Walsh, Laurence Perry, Sammy Kaye, State Senator Jim Dunnigan, Joe Hanley, assistant D_A. of Brooklyn and a host of others. Francis Walther. '25. and "His Harmon­ians" provided the martial and dancing music. 
The local club expresses their thanks to Father James Traher. C.S.C., prefect of discipline, for his cooperation. We're also indebted to Joe Casaianta. the bandmaster, and the Notre Dame Band for another stellar performance on the air. We're also grateful to the National Broadcasting Company, its executive Philip Carlin, who made possible the half hour broadcast on a national hook-up. A thank you also to Paul Dumont of NJB.C., and Fort Pearson the announcer. A triple salaam to Boh Hamilton, local prexy, Dldc "Workhorse" Donoghne. general chairman, and his side-kick, Ed Bcckman, chairman of arrangements, and Work Mule George Mallixan for a grand job well done. To G. E. Bill Damt, get your Army tickets early next ^ear. Curtain. 
Bfaybe this poison pen notice will be noticed by 
alimmi in New York. Send your ouibs to yours 
truly, if yoo want to see your name in lights, — 
we mean print. 
Paul J. Blaholdiic. 

OKLAHOMA 
Jenfh A. LaFartue, ex. '18. Nat^ Bank 
•t Twb* VUwi. Tkln. PmUtnt; Cari J. atmgtt. 17, UM S. OMTtimc TUia. 8M­retafy* 

At the American Petroleum Institute meeting in Chicago were many of our members, among them, J. A. La Fortane, Arch Leonard. Charles HcNamar, E. F. Moran, W. B. Moran, William Sherry and Tom Moore. 
Frank Beidy, '37, and Jim Kcidy, '32. are in charge of the annual election dinner planned, as this is written, for Nov. 23 at the Tulsa CHub. 
The nn^^ffl holiday dance will be held Dec. 26 at the Mayo Hotel. The chairman and the com­mittee in charge of the affair will be announced later. 
OREGON 
Natt HeDoosall. Jr.. '33, 45 S.W. First Ave., Partland, PresidcBt: Edward J. Sandstron, '3*. 8 N.E. Portland Blvd., Portland. Sec­retatr. 

Several members of the N.D. club of Oregon were present at an Oct. 23 banquet honoring Ber. Ouilcs Miltaer, C,S,C..''il, new president'of Uni­verrity of Portland, which was sponsored by the alumni association of that school. 
Ed O'Bbara. M-A. '40, was toastmaster, and Ed Sandst f was included on the speaker's pro­gram. Ber. Ikeadora Hdilinc. CS. C was one of the gnesta. Others present were Gene Harphy. former Portland football coach; Dam CaOIerate. CM A. McKenni, A. B. Fetersdimidt. and Jia CalBgan. 
Edw. F. O'Heara 

PHILADELPHIA 
WiOiaa A. A. CaiteUiiii. '22. FnuJdfai 1m­stitat*. PaAway at 2Mk. Prtsidnt: • . Bradley BaOey. ex. '23. 2M S. Bnad St, Swretaty. 

McCready Huston, former associate editor of the South Bend "Tribune" and now news.director of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia. spoke on "The Kockne Few People Knew," at the October meeting of the club held. Oct 22. at the Hotel Adelphia. It was such an unusual presenta­tion of "Bock" that the talk held the audience of 56 spellboxmd. Huston was compelled to continue for a half-hour past his time through the insis­tence of the audience for "more." 
Those who participated in the club fund raising project by the usual football means were Gerald "Kid" Ashe. '22; Bob Armstrong. John J. (IT.S. Mint) Brady; Connie Byrne; Ed Balky, ex. '23; Bill Castellini. '22; BUI Cooney. the proud papa; Tom CarroU; PUI Crossan; Treasurer Harald Doke; Across the river Vince Donahue: Gerald and H. P. Degan. pillars of the club; Jim Fogar­ty; Pennsy Special Tuxedo Bryan Hayes; John Lyndl. Jr. Curtis Publishing Company; Dr. E. J. Lyons; Loyal Club Member Joe Mahoney; Chadie McKinney. Budd Builder, beat all in raising dol­lars ; Director John H. Neeson, Sr.. Bill Nolan. '22, chemical king; life insurance Jim O'Donnell; music master Walt Phillip; newlywed Walt Bid­ley; Tony Stopper, classmate and friend of Hurley Ccmmerce building benefactor; architect Adiiaa Wackerman; Dry Docks Dan H. Yoong . . . and Clifford ProdeU. 
November meeting was held at Palumbo's Res­taurant, famous Philly nightery since the Gay Nineties. New special dining room was appropri­ately decorated with giant photographs of scenes from the Notre Dame campus. 
December will include a party at the Fels Plan­etarium where Public Relations Castellini will bring them "Out of Darkness." 
Further note on "Knute Rockne—^AU American." 
H. Birchard Taylor, executive vice-president of the Cramp Ship Building (k>mpany. prominent Univer­sity of Pennsylvania graduate and president of the Sandlot Sports Association, told our prexy that "every boy in the United States should see the Rockne picture." 
EdBaUey. 

The ticket activity that took the club out of the red and Charlie McKinney to the Army game came off without an argument. None of the dob members was successful in snaring any paste­boards, so the thing must have been on the level. Charlie was high man for the number of chanrps sold (even with the rigged job against him), so we have to hand it to him. Yon might as well hand it, he'll get it anyway. 
Harold Duke, the keeper of the funds, whenever there are any available, brought down the house with his report wherein we went up to 900 bucks and back to zero in ten seconds flat. It was a great ride though! 
Several newcomers were also in attendance in­cluding Wes Farrington, '33, of Pleasantville, 
N. Y., and Paul Devers. down from Scranton. "DM others will have to forgive me. 
As soon as the old courage comes up enough, I'm going to ask Josh D'Amora how he likes being a chemist. Imagine I Bill Nolan better snap up this budding Nieawland. 
NeU Harley, our classmate, paid a flying visit to Philly in the rain. He ran in on Dan Yaaa* to see the new job, but. unfortunately, Dan was in Norfolk at the time. Judging from Neil's size, since we last saw him, a wrestling bout between himself and Perc Connolly would be quite an at­traction. 
OUrPiaMO. 

PHOENIX, ARIZ. 
B. J. HOkeit, •22, 482 nth it Tnnt Bite. Prnifcat. 

JaA HUknt. president of the eUb, is leeover­ing slowly after a critical illness. Suffering bom a "left-over" from the first Worid War, Jack went to the Glendale .Sanitarium and Hospital. Qendalc, Calif., last August, and has been there since. He writes that his escape from death was considered by the doctors to be ptaetieally ndraenloa — "thanks to the many prayers in my bduUf." 
ROCHESTER 
Frank X OmmtOr. ex. -34. 135 Sptias St . 
Frcsideat: Jeki F. Hariey. '37. 1818 CMII­
aMrce BUr.. 118 Maia St . Secretary. 

In the absence of Jack Haiiey. who is up in Springfield learning how to really polish off an insurance prospect once he is in a weakened con­dition, it falls on me to give you the inside <m what is happening in our local club.. 
I was hardly back from a very pleasant, honey­moon trip through the New England states, indnd­ing Bar Harbor and Boston, not to mention a few days in New York (Hty. when we began to arrange for a series of events in connection with Enute Rockne Week. 
We tock part in having Mayor Dickes proclaim the week of Oct. 24 to 30 as Knute Bockne week. The preliminaries to this week were ushered in by a dvie dinner. There were some 250 present and we occupied a post of honor. 
Jae Flyiw. our standby in times like this, sxwke earnestly and weU of Bark as he knew him. I, aa president, presented our good-looking Knute Rockne trophy to the "Democrat & Chronide." 
At the evening of the picture we had a nice spot on the program. Judge Harald G. BaAa ^oke from the stage and he was good. Jeixy Ilyaa led the audience in some feeble cheers and songs untU he came to the Victory Mardi. when thcT almost tore the place down. Later that nisAt we had a party at Jahaay OdeakaA'a Peacock Boom and served dinner for 60 people. 
Soon we shall meet to formulate final plana for • our annual Christmas formal whidi wiU be hdd this year on Dee. 28 at the Rochester Club. Every year this event g«ta better and we are figuring on taking care of 600 couples this year — to top last year's record of 486. 
Fiaak X. Geaadly. 

RHODE ISLAND * S. E. MASS. 
Jaha J. MrfjiMh. '34. Meadea Baad. ' Camkcriaad Hil, B. L. PnsidcBt: BasadI L. Haat "38, 45 Ola St, Wnasiiktt, B. L, Secictaiy. 

Activities for the past month have been rather light except for the mass attendance at the show­ing of "Knute Bodme—All American" in a Prov­idence theatre. Sixty seats were reserved for the club members and tbdr guests. President. Jdua McLaagfclia addressed the an£ence on the first day of the presentation. 
Bail Brawn, '39. has been ddng very weU aa end coach at Brawn Univenaty. His diargea were instrumental in major victories over Yale. Holy Cross and Army. 
BasadI L. Haat 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (hfua) 
Laaia T. Bfwcwr. '21, Ut W. Ittnwm. 
Sealk Bead, FnaUiat; danaca Haidbc. 
•25, SsaA Bead TiAaaa^ Ssatt BcaC Sae­lelaiy. 

Committers for the 20th anmal testimnoial has­qnet of tbm Notra Dame fboOall taam hava be n sefcrteJ by the offiecra of tha Kotra Dame Cfaib of S t Joseph Valley whidi «adi year vonsora tha event ' 
The dinner will be held the night of Dec 16 in the east room of the Notre Dame dining; hall. Frank E. Coachlin has been named general chair­man of the affair. 
Chairman of the program committee is Elwyn 

M. Moore. Assisting him will be M, Robert Cahill. Joseph S. Petritz and B. J' VoIL 
Jade Shively is chairman of the ticket commit­tee. He has as his assistants Herbert E. Jones, Ed­ward P. Krcimer, John Sdiindler, Clarence Fatter, Edward Voorde, Fnnk X. Kopinski. Peter A. Bcczkicwicz, Jerome J. Crowley, Harrj- S. Drigffs, Charles A. Sweeney and Robert Proctor, Jr. 
The seating committee has as its chairman, Arthur Diedrich, Assisting him are Grover Ma­lone, WaUrd F. W»imer» Joseph Lanber, F. J. Brccn. Barton Toepp and toais J. Hickey. 
The reception committee, headed by Gsrald Hoar, includes Walter Clements. Edward J. Mechan, Paul BL Batler, Francis Jones, Giles Cain, Albert Mc-Gann, Joseph W, Nyikbs, J. Frank Miles and Thfimas L. Hickey, Sr. 
Arrangements for the banquet will be made by a committee headed by A. Harold Weber. Assist­ing him will be James Keatingr. Norman Hartzer, Harry Ridiwine, Harrison H. Crockett, Edward A. Everett, Dan Youncerman and Paul Fergus. 
The finance committee includes R. Floyd Scarer, James Meehan, Frank Miles and Herbert Jones. The publicity committee is headed by Clarence W. H^^rdinff, with Joe Petritz and Frank Farrington as his assistants. 
LOCAL POLITICS 

The Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley was, as usual, largely represented on the Nov. 5 ballots in SL Joseph County. 
Aaron H. Hnffoenard, '22. Democrat, and Ed­ward B. Smith, '30, Republican, both of South Bend, were the county chairmen of their respec­tive parties. 
Georcc W. Sands, '10, Democratic candidate for congressman from the third Congressional district, carried St. Joe County (as did the entire Demo­cratic ticket), but lost to Robert A. Grant. '28, Republican, when the other two counties of the district gave Bob a considerable margin. 
Artluir F. Sciiccr, '26, Democrat, was re-elected prosecutor of the county. 
Edward A. Olczak, *33, Democrat, was elected a state representative, in a race in which Paul E. Berran, ex. '36, Republican, was defeated. 
Dr. T. C. Goraczewsld, '31, Democrat, was elected coroner and Tliomas Dumont. ex. '36, Dem­ocrat, was re-elected county surveyor. 
Clarence J. "Oonie" Donovan, '31, Bedford. Democratic candidate for secretary of state, and Judge William T. Fitzfferald, '23, North Vernon, Democratic candidate for justice of the state su­preme court, both earned St. Joseph County but lost out in the state by narrow margins. 
TRI-CITIES (Illinou-Iowa) 
G«orce W. Vaadcr Vennet. *32, 622 Union Bank Bldr^ 3rd & Brady Sts., Davenport, laws, Pnriift; Edmnnd J. Meagher, '21, 2153 Sttfa St , Kadc bland, HL, Secretary. 

On Oct. 25 at the club house of the Binghamton Council of the Eiiights of Columbus, the alumni of the Triple Cities wound up the first lap of their scholarship drive. 
The meeting was opened by President Harold Desnoyera* report on the success of the drive and the appointment by him of a selection committee including Father To<Hney as chairman, Donald Kennedy and Joaeph Hont. President Desnoyers also commended the drive committee composed of Resis McNaHaia, Ted GritHn and John Donnelly for their enthusiastic sapxwrt. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
He then introduced Father Toomey, head of Catholic Charities in this district and prominent in the local Community Chest Drve, who inspir­ingly addressed the group on the value of aid to tleser\-ing students. 
Father Toomey's talk was followed by the film, "Highlights of the 1939 Football Season" which was shown to the 23 alumni and approximately 35 guests including the football coaches of the Triple Cities high schools. 
President Desnoyers announced that the next club activity would be the annual Qiristmas Dance to be held during the holidays. 
The following members attended the meeting: Harold Desnoyers. president; Lawrence Cronin, vice-president: Dr. John Kane, secretary; Robert McCabe, treasurer: Donald Kennedy. Joseph Hunt, Father Joseph Toomey. Dr. Kenneth Baldwin, Dr.' Frank Kane, Ted Griffin, Walter Mullen, R^cis McNamara, William Hogan, James Hogan, Fran­ci.> O'Brien, Stewart Osbom, John Donnelly, John Wacks, John Murphy. Chester Wilga. Dr. Walter Demer, Robert Murphy, and Edward Hogan. 
Walter Mullen. 

TUCSON, ARIZONA 
Vincent Henscskadi, ex. '27. P. O. Bax 533. President; Ted A. Witz, ex. '29. Box CSS. Secretary. 

The Tucson club has been happy to meet two newcomers. Leslie Raddatz. '33, from Cleveland. Ohio, is now joined by Bryan "Joe" De^nan. '34, from Vermont, who may be remembered as the last editor of the old "Juggler." Joe will be stay­ing for the time being at the Elk's State Hospital. Silver Bell Road, Tucson. 
Football season again brings "jam sessions" and lately we have been in a number with John Sex­ton, Paul Dofand and Chris Reilly. We do miss Joe Ryan as his quarters were always a meeting place for the gang. However, we hope that Joe isn't getting too much bad weather back at school. 
Ted Witz. 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Andrew Aath, *34, 405 6th St.. S.W., Pr«d­dent: Cari G. Ghriitianson. '31. 4478 Con­duit Road, Secretary. 

Not since Hubert drew a cross bow at the Battle of Hastings has there been a grander rally than we staged at the Carlton Hotel on Nov. 8. the eve of the Navy game. Credit where credit is due, says I, to a committee of John Maloney, chair­man, Bemie lyoshbaugh. Joe Borda and Andy Anth. 
United States Attorney Edward M. Curran, self-styled "synthetic alumnus," was a top-flight toast­master who launched the rally with a toast to the president of the United States. His name slips my mind at present. Anyway, via the introductions that followed the quarterdeck was fitly represented by Admiral Larrimore, former chief of ordnance, U.S.N., Major "Swede" Larsen, Navy coach. Rip Miller, Colonel BuUus, president of the Navy alum­ni, and others from the fleet, synthetic and other-
Notre Dame was as well. represented by Father John Cavanaogh, vice-president, Elmer Laydcn, Joe Boland and an excellent turn-out by the local club, to say nothing of the always welcome syn­thetic alumni of our own. Bishop Gilmore of Mon­tana, a guest of Bill Jones, and Father Maurice Sheehy of Catholic University were two of these. 
J. Edgar Hoover was another. Buck O'Neil, na­tional sports writer, and Flaherty and Stan of the Washington "Herald" and "Star" respective­ly were there. Buc^ O'Neil covered the first Army-Notre Dame game. Wayne Millner and four of his Redskin teammates put in an appearance with their coach, Ray Flaherty. 
Layden'a tribute to the Navy made the welkin ring. Said he. "You may rest assured that the Navy line is a lot easier to take on Friday night than on Saturday afternoon." He was right, seems as though. Another fast one by Hidcey Qaaltera. the Preadent's bodyguard, practically stopx>ed the show. Said Mickey. "I asked the President this afternoon whom he favored in the Navy-Notre Dame game. The President replied. 'Well, I am Commander-in-Chief of the Na\7 and also I have an honorary degree from Notre Dame, so I think my place should be in the middle of the field, but —from what I hear about the Notre Dame and Navy lines. I shouldn't think that would be a very healthy spot.' 
Ambraw O'Connell, first assistant postmaster general, was very much in evidence at the rally and looking hale and healthy enough. 
I should te remiss not to mention the distaff side at the affair, all too sparse though their at­tendance was. 
Joe Apodaca is now in the professional personnel 

of the newly-created Division of Latin American 
Agriculture of the U. S. Department of Agricul­
ture- Joe has spent the past two years in Latin 
American economic research. 
Carl Christianson. 

GRADUATE NEWS 
Kafccrt J. llioHaa, 331 W. 14tk St., Wilming­tan. Delaware. 

It seems that Al Kolica intended to visit the boys in Wilmington a short time ago and, incidentally, correct me in regard to the statement in this column that he had fallen under the spell of Niag­ara Falls. That's the way I heard it, so I suggest that Al drop me a line with the details if he doesn't get to town as planned. I was sincerely disappointed to hear that I had missed Al in New York. 
At the Penn bar in New York after the Army game I met Bill Castleroan who wanted to be remembered to Fred Weber. Heard there that Jade Loritsch is now in Cincinnati. 
Most of the Notre Dame men in Wilmington went down to the Navy game in Baltimore. Those present included Will Anzilotti, Fen Froning, Art Baaa, John Vcrhanc. Bert Young and yours truly. Nearly 160 research men of the du Pont Company took in the game and enjoyed it thor­oughly. 
At the Baltimore stadium, I met Ensign George Fan and his charming wife. George will be re­membered as Professor Mahin's recent assistant and grad student in metallurgy. He is now on active duty as a naval ordnance officer located at present in Virginia. George informed me that Joe Cordaro, who not so long ago was chasing bugs for his M.S. in biology, is now on the facul­ty of the Univeristy of Texas. 
The rumor that Jim McKenna is now a benedict 
has been confirmed. Miss Ann Joan Baier and Jim 
were married, July 25, in ^Wyandotte, IGch. Con­
gratulations. Jim. and best wishes. 
Bob Thomas. 


NAMH) OFFICIAL CHRONICLER 

The Rev. Matthew A. Coyle, C.S.C, instructor in the Department of English, has been appointed official chronicler of the University for the Congregation of Holy Cross. Duties of this position are to record and file all ecclesiastical, social, academic and other significant occur­rences vital to Notre Dame life. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus j.17^ 
• v^-^S 





THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Hiss Elizabeth Richard and John C. O'DonnelL ex. '37, of South Bend. 
Miss Margaret Keeney and Kohert F. Wibon, '39. of South Bend.' 
Miss Virginia Eessell and Robert J. Tieriian, '40, of Des Moines. Iowa. 
Hiss Winifred Meagher and F. Edmund Dono­gfane, '36, of Milwaukee. 
Marriages 
The marriage of Miss Bemice Claire Jordan and Charles Michael Walsh, '27» took place, Nov. 6, in East Liverpool* Ohio. 
Miss Marcella K. Conners and James E. Keat­ing, '29, were married, Nov. 9, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Helengrace Farragher and Thomas M. McLanchlin, '33. took place, July 27, in Cleveland. 
Miss Bemice Magiera and Arthur S. Prekowitz, '33, were married, Oct-26, in South Bend. 
Miss Lorraine Murphy and Edward M. Sullivan, ex. '33, were married, recently, in Chicago. 
The marriage of Miss Rhea Ruth Chambers and Donald G. Wanfle, '33, took place, Aug. 10, in Janesville, Wis. 
The marriage of Miss Virginia Ann Hoya and Charles F. Fisher, ex. '34, took place. Oct. 26. in Chicago. 
Miss Blanch Marie Murphy and John J. O'Con* nor. III, '34, were married, Oct. 12, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Rose M. Miotti and John C. Caresio. '35, were married, July 29. in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Helen Connor and James Paul Colleran, *35. were married, Oct. 5, in Indianapolis. 
The marriage of Bliss Madeleine Elizabeth Kelly and George T. Demetrio, '35, took place. Aug. 31, in Paterson, N. J. 
Miss Su Ellen Julian and Lt. Harold H. May, ex. '35, were married, Nov. 30, in Peoria, III. 
Miss Mildred Moylan and William F. Martha, Jr., '35, were married, Sept. 28, in Rockville Centre, N. Y. 
The marriage of Miss Helene Herr and Charles 
E. Patterson, Jr., ex. '35, took place, Sept. 28. in Chicago. 
Hiss Mildred Gumo and John L. Thro, '35, were married, Oct. 7, in Mankato. Minn. 
The marriage of Miss Vivian Marie Moser and Arthur F. Holier, *36, took place. Aug. 12, in Fort Atkinson. Iowa. 
Miss Helen Marie Weber and Adelbert C Banr, *36, were married, Nov. 6. in Oitcago. 
Tlie marriage of Miss Betty Herbst and Harold 
R. Stine, '36, took place. June 1, in Flint, Mich. 
Miss Mary Helen Htzer and Edward F. Theis, '36, were married. Oct. 19. at Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Mary Linda Flynn and John D. Broderidc, '37, took place, Aug. 31. in Allston, Mass. 
The marriage of Miss Vera Przybysz and I*e« 
R. Boyle, *38. took place. Nov. 21, at Notre Dame. Paul J. Boyle, '33. brother of the bridegroom, was best man. 
The marriage of Miss Charlotte M. Ruiter and Ralph L. Pope, '38, took place, Aug. 22, in Mas­sachusetts. 
Miss Alice Scully and Leonard H. Skoglund, *38. were married. Sept. 14, in Harvey. HI. 
Miss Ann Mary Power and Charles E. Siyns­stad, '38. were married, Aug. 31, in Worcester. 
Miss Rita Marie Cahill and Edward J. Fanning, Jr., '39, were married, Sept. 7, at Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Eleanore Teb and Edward 
K. Grimes, '39, took place, July 17, in Dayton, Ohio. 
Mrs. Eva Brown Yohe announces the marriage of her daughter, Margaret Anne, to Kyrm W, Hanlon, *39. on Oct. 12. in Pittsburgh. 
Miss Mary McSherry and Joseph C, O'ConneD. Jr., '40. were married, Nov. 16, at Notre Dame. Louis J. Demer, '39, was best man. 
The marriage of Miss Margaret 'Hemey and James Sackley Rigney, '30. took place, Nov. 21. in Oak Park. HI. 
Miss Helene Herr and Charles E. Patterson. Jr., ex. '35, were married, Sept. 28, in Chicago. 
Miss Geraldine Zink and Charles A. Kfdp, Jr., '38, were married, June 22, in Canton, Ohio. 
The marriage of Miss Katherine Haggerty and Charles V. Horrath, ex. '33. took place, Sept. 23. in Flushing, Long Island, N. Y. 

BiHhs 
A son, Stephan Edward, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Edward S. Sullivan, '24, on Oct. 25, in Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Dr. and Mrs. Bertrand D. CongfaUn. '26, an­nounce the birth of a son, Bertrand, Jr., on Oct. 1, in S t Louis. A daughter, Barbara, was bom on Aug. 9, 1939. 
Mr. and Mrs. Clem F. Crowe, '26, announce the birth of a son, their ninth child, on Oct. 22, in Cincinnati. 
A daughter, Frances Eileen, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Mullen, '27, on Oct. 12, in Fonda, Iowa. 
A daughter, Susan Elizabeth, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. J. Joseph Langton, '28, on Nov. 18, in Peoria. III. 
A daughter, Barbara Ann. was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Paid A. Bertsch, '29, on Oct. 24, in Akron. Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs. William E. O'Reilly. Jr.. '29, an­nounce the birth of a son, recently. In Norwalk. Conn. 
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Smith, '29, announce the birth of a son, James Gilbert, on Sept. 16, in Chicago. 
A son, William John, n , was bom to Mr. and Mrs. James W. Sullivan, '30, on Nov. 1, in Royal Oak, Mich. 
Mr. and Mrs. Vvmnrnt F. C«—a. '31. as­nounee the birth of a daiq^ter, Kdide . on Nor. 16, in Great Barrington, Mass. 
A dangfater. Haty Sman, was bom to Kr. and Mrs. Jncfli E. MdEnm '32. on April 14. in • Shreveport. La. 
A daughter, Sh«la Ann, was horn to Hr. and Mrs. Jaaws B. Kenny; '33. on Sept. 10. in Nlkf. Mich. 
Mr. and Mrs. Bakert K. Kdky, '34. anncnnee the birth of a aon. Robert, n . on Oct. 29. in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Wilfiaa F. Lewis, '34. announce the birth of a dauAter. Joan IVances. on Jnne 
30. in Chicago. 
Twins. iSrian Michael and Kanreen. were Ixon to Mr. and Mrs! Daniel J. TtmhmiT, '34. on Oct. 14, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Excne L. O'Biien. '35. annoonee the birth of a son. (m Oct. 29, in Sooth Bend. 
A son, Michael Canville, was bom to Kr. and Mrs. Oliver J. Beuwtt, '36, on Sept. 17. in Fair­fax, Okla. 
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred T. EiaUae. Jr , '37. an­nounce tlie birth of a daughter. Laurr Kay. on Oct. 30, in Chicago. 
A aon was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Jikn S. Goncher, '38. on Nov. 6. in Sooth Bend. 
A son. Stephan Aloysios. was bom to Mr* and Mrs. TksBas B. HatcUnaaa. '38. on Nov. 12, in Indianapolis. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Wakevita; '38, annoonee the birth of a daughter, Barbara Jane, on Sept. 7. in Ironwood. Midi. 
Mr. and Mrs. Viaccat P. Henseakaek. ex. '27. announce the birth of a son, John Vineeit, <m -Nov. 18. in Toeson, Aria. 

Deafhs 
Frank H. Vcaact. 82 years, a student at Notre Deme in the late 70's. died in South Bend on Nor. 
12. A school teacher in the county adiools of St. Joseph County. Ind., tar d^ t years after be left Notre Dame. Mr. Vennet waa a^^ointed to the railway mail aerviee in 1885 and served on tha run between SoBth'Beod and Tern Hasten Ind. until his retirement in 1930. He waa regolariy one of the first registrants at the ahmmi reunion aadi spring, and he took a deep interest in Notre Dame affairs. Surviving him are a son and tliree daughters. 
Fiaacis B. Dealer. A3 . "87. AM. '91. dHB of Puerto Bieo's continental lawyers and president of the Federal Bar Asaodation there. cBed suddenly of a heart attack in San Joan on Get. 24. News of his death was sent to tha "Ahnmma" l>y Bobert 
L. Forbes. Jr.. '31k of San Juan. 
Bom in Oswego. N. T.. Hr. Dexter went to Puerto Bieo in 1898 to repnt the Spaaiab-Ameri­can War for the United Pleaa. b flw saae year he was appointed one of the three •-—'TI? of Oe first Providooal Civil Omrt oadcr tha lAdtad States regime. He ra^dly beeame on* ct tha Itai­ing citizen* of 0» Islaad. An active Demociat, ha represented nierto Keo at several "-««-n1 ceo­ventlcms of Us party and was. in later years, an enthusiastic advocate of statehood for the Island. Surviving him are his wife, three sons and three daughters. 
Balph S. Feis, UUB .'07, Mishawaka, Ind., president of the St. Joseph County Bar Associa­tion, died suddenly on Nov. 20. Mr. Feig began tiis practice of law in Mishawajca immediately after liis graduation, and, in 1914, he became the city's first city judge, serving in that imsition until 1921. He was a leading member of many of the community's fraternal, civic and professional grotqis, as well as a regular member of the Alum­ni Association for many 3rears. One son, Charles, survives him. 
WillUm M. Vaoshan, ex. '11, ot Lafayette, Ind., died on Nov, 11, according to word from Father Thomas Irving, C.S.C. Mr. Vaughan was the brother of Charles L. Vaughan, '14, Vint D. Vp.ughan, '17, and James E. Vaughan, ex. '27. 
John C. SnUsvan, Hin. E. '22, of Ironwood, Mich., died on Oct 20 after a heart attack. A native of Sparta, Minn., John had been in Iron­wood since 1926 and was a leading member of the Gogebic Range Notre Dame Club, serving the club as secretary for two years. The club attended the walce in a group and had a Mass said at Notre Dame for the repose of his soul. 
John is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter, one brother and three sisters. He was an engineer for the Pickands, Mather Co. 
Accidentally struck down by a taxicab as he was crossing a street. Attorney Robert E. Mc-Gbnn. Ii.B . '23, East St. Louis, III., was critical­ly injured on Nov. 12 and died on Nov. 16. Suffei> legs. Bob never regained consciousness after the accident. 

Member of a noted Notre Dame family. Bob, with his brothers, Joseph B. '12 and Daniel F. '18, was a partner in the prominent East St. Louis legal firm of McGlynn and McGlynn. He was buried on Nov. 19 after being honored by one of the community's largest funerals. Surviving him are his wife, three sons, his two brothers and two sisters. 
Complications resulting from a ruptured appen­dix caused the death, on Nov. 5, of Wilbur Mc-Elray, B.ATeh, '26, of Norwalk, Conn., and Hedomak, Maine. He was the brother of Paul McElroy, '29. 
Mac rallied courageously from the critical oper­ation and, as it seemed, fought successfully against peritonitis and a streptococdc infection. But when pneumonia developed he lived only a day. 
^os e who were on the campus through the "McElroy art era," 1922-29, recall Wilbur, like his brother, as one of the most talented Notre Dame artists of all time. As a prolific contributor to the "Juggler" and, later, its art editor, he was one of the main props of that well-remembered publication. He continued in art work after his graduation. 
Those who knew Wilbur can appreciate the 

' recent comment of one of his Norwalk friends, "I hope that when I go out I am as thoroughly in the state of grace." Another friend said, "May he intercede for all of ns. No finer ever lived." 
D«u U T. Nagcnt, Algona, Iowa, a Notre Dame student in 1923-24, died in the past summer from a brain illness, according to word from Wade Sullivan, '26, also of Algona. He was assistant conntjr engineer. 
The "Alamnas" reouved. throng the President's 
oCEice. word of the death, on Oct. 10, of Bocer J. HcGoTcm, A.B. '33, of Bridgeport, Conn., and Washington, D. C. 
Sister M. Frauds SUce. S.C, iLA. '23, of Mt St. Joseph, Ohio, is dead, according to a notifica­tion from the post ofiEice. 
Frederick Aselage, Sidney, Ohio, a freshman in the College of Arts and Letters, was accidentally drowned, on Oct. 17 in the pool of the Rockne Memorial Ficldhouse. An older brother, John, is a senior in the University. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to Elton Crepean, ex. '10. upon the death of his brother; Joseph H. Donn, '27, upon the death of his father; William J. Maganall, Jr., '32. upon the death of his mother: John B. Brinker. '33, upon the death of his father; Dr. Joseph B. Caton. ex. '34, upon the death of his mother; Dr. Joiepll P., '12, John W., '12, and Edward W. CosteDa, ex. '10, upon the death of their sister; Joim Wallace. '34, upon the death of his father; James B.. '35, and John T. Corrigan, '35, upon the death of their father; Daniel M. Hnrphy. '39, upon the death of his brother. 


Personals 

Attorney Frmncis H. Bobind, of San Francisco, student of the years 1885-'87. -was a -nrelcome Alumni Office visitor on Nor, 14. Two sons, Frmn­cis H. and Stuart BL» attended Notre Dame in 1915. 
Ber. J. A. HacNamara, '97, 


1890-99 
Saint Joseph's Sanitariam, Mount Clemens, MJrfiigan. 

Seen taking a look at the Hghtinff Irish ffrid practice in Danville, DI., before the Illinois Kame, was Dr. F. W- Barton, '96. Johnny Chevimr was also around in Danville prior to the Iliini>NJ). clash. The team attended Mass at St. Pat's there. Father Cleary, pastor, is a brother of Ed. '09. 
Father AlacNamara. \vritins from his Eastern headquarters, where he was to be until Dec. 1, had news of the Army an'd the Navy week-ends and of other things. Father has seen every Army same to date (as has Jolin Neeson, *03), bot he ^ t a special kick out of this one, when, as he writes. ".. . I saw Charlie Bryan, of Memphis, my old classmate, for the first time in 43 years and wc had a fine hut too short reunion. He im­mediately started making plans for the centenary in 1942. 
"I also saw that hardy annual, Hn ^ CDonnell, '94. and Judge Bill Walsh. '97. There were prob­ably more there from the gay 90's but I didn't see them. At the Navy game. I saw ftmfcr—t O'Connell, who looked, and said he felt, very wdL I also saw Harry Miller and Walter Dnnean and Joe Garcan. who was also at the Army game. 
"When I got back from New York, I found « letter awaiting me from C C. Fitigcrald, CJE. '94, of Havana Cuba. He is still going strong — ­scys he has been to two wars, and, although over the age limit, is willing to go to the one v^A may be coming on. 
"He announces the marriage of his daosjiter, Margy, to Cyril L. Ibiel, of Chicago^ TT.S. consul at Guayaquil, Ecuador. Miss Fitzgerald is a grad­uate of Holy Cross Convent, Dunbarton, Wash­ington. D. C. The wedding took place, Nov. S, in the private diapel of the Papal Nando in I^vana, with Sis Excellency, Most Rev. Jorge Caruana. officiating. 
"In expressing his regret at the death of Father Bama, Mr. Fitzgerald said, *I knew him as Jim Bums in 1887 when I was in the preiwratory school and he was idol of the baseballers at Notre Dame. He **played ball" when he became a priest with all the fervor for the advancement of the Faith and Notre Dame that he had shown as a student and athlete. God rest his soul.' 
"I was sorry to read of Tom Blcdky's death. I was always hoping to see Tom but never met him after graduation. He was 'of the salt of the earth.* May God be good to him." 
Bakt E. Pmctor, '04, Blonger 1900-04 Bailding. ElUiart, Indiana. 
Rev. Thomas E. Baike. C.S.C 1905-09 '07, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
The Managing Ed., in New York for the Army game, met John J. "Red" Murray, who is recrea­tion director of Elmira, N. Y. Red was with the New Yorlc Giants of the National League for 12 years nnder the late wizard of the diamond, John McGraw. Red asked especially about an old friend, Lawrence McNemey, '06, of Elgin, 111. Red's ad­dress is 651 W. Washington Ave., Elmira. N. Y. 
191 A '" • **-^ Horiarty, St. Mary's Church. 
•'" ' Mentw, Ohto. 
IQl l Fred Steers, IC6C FInt Nations] Bank 
• ' • • BalUinr. Chicago. IIBnois. 
191 2 '^ '* ^*'**'' '** Feuth St. Pitts­
•'• * huifa. Pennsylvania. 
 E. Byrne. University library. 

1913 Pad 
Notre Dame. Indiana. 
|A| ^ Frank H. Hayes. C42 Third Ave, 
•'• ^ On U Vista. California. 
1915 '*"— E. Sanford. 3725 Cllntm AT C 
• # I. « Berwyn. minois. 
AN EXPLANATION 
Ibis will e:cplain to the New York Club and to Bofc Haailton, who handled the toastmaster's job as well at the big Rally and Reunion at the Commodore the night before the Army game that the competition to the program coming from the vicinity of tnble 60 was hut an informal meeting of the Andent but Honorable Order of PI SHAGS who were planning their part in tlie hundredth anniversary of S t Joe Hall. From the moment Ralph "Zipper" Lathiop and Bin Cede pulled in the car with a "Come and get it" until Father Ed Howard suggested that it would soon be time for morning prayer, much was discussed. Smethport's Boh Daly was overheard telling Lanr Lajok how to conduct a'-rec" room triaL Pat Hail showed Didc Dann just how a turkey could get out of a locker. Pennsyl­vania's "Frickey" FarreD acted as inter­preter wbea N.n i BarthdsaKw orated. Dr. "VacKie" Bun s and Dick Du n were able to produce the customary two bowls of ice cream when needed. Bill Kelleher and Fnmk "H" Hayes were outtalked by Jim O'Brien and John Malkowiki. Jim Haxford and Rochester's Joe Flynn. Brownsonites, were not allowed to vote. Bin Daant fur­nished the head-table coffee. Dan Shsavlin was elected an honorary member. Eauaett LcnAaa induced Ed Bedcnaa to close the place. All membera. including the Presi­dent, reedved thoughtful consideration. CJtAi, no sixteen course dinner ever pro­duced as nradi. Moral: Make your 1942 reservations for S t Joe Hall now. Heads Up. Hot Stuff. No Seconds. 
(Signed) One who was there. 

|0 | « Tiawdv P. Galvin. First Tnut Bidld­17 IO iBg, HajMwnd, Indiana. 
C I. Krajewiki, Dubuque, Iowa, architect, spent two days here during the showing of the Rocioie movie premiere, together with Mrs. Erajewski and Dr. and Mrs. Kaep, Dubuque, who happen to lie personal friends of Fbt and Mrs. O'Brien. 
«Q| « Edward J. HcOiker, SSM Fairmoont I T I # Blvd., Cleveland Helihts, OUo. 
« Q l M John A. Lenmer. 901 Lake Shore Drive, Escanaba, Midiizan. 
1919 Gmrr» Indimna. 
• ' * W AncelM, CaUfomU. 
From far aff Chile a "voice in the wilderness" cries out for news from a few of his former associates. The voice belongs to Enrique Rosaelot 
A. of Santiago de Chile and the friends vith whom he would like to correspond are Joe Thomp­son, Pete Smith (the Texas Smitty), Father Dore­mni. Father Pat Hasrerty, Frof. Jose Corona, Prof. RIaiinu and Father Steiner. Senor Kosselot is assistant manager of the Santiago office of the Chile Telephone Company, is married and has two children. When at Notre Dame he founded the Lntin-American Club. 
From Secretary Ward: Father Pat HcGnire, class of '20. was here in Los Angeles for the Bi-.centennial Mass. Father HcGuire is pastor of the leading parish in Salt Lake City. As heretofore noted. Bishop (VHara has spent some time here both for the Bi-centen­nial Mass and in connection with administering sacraments to the members of the Army and Navy stationed around Los Angeles. 
Edward P. "Slip** Hadixan was recently hired as manager of a race track in Oakland at an annual salary of $15,000 per year, with a three-year contract. Those who have not seen Slip since he was retired by St. Mary*s College at Horaga. Cblif., would never know him. He is completely cured of his stomach disorder, has gained approximately 60 pounds, is the picture of health and is his old jovial self again. Man­aging a race track is less disconcerting than managing a bunch of football players. 
Ed HcBIahon, of Anderson, Ind.. and Joe Satt­ncr, of Elwood, Ind.. are two Notre Dame alumni from or near Wendell L. WilBde's home town who voted for Roosevelt. They don't know why except for the fact that they have always been Democrats. 
Gerald "Kid** Ashe, pride of amen comer and brother of Tom and Ed Ashe, was in Los Angdes recently. Tlie Kid, so I am told, is employed by a transportation company and was making a tour of this western area. 
T«H Heam, who was not in the class of 1920 but who has been one of the members of the Notre Dame Ctub in Los Angeles for more than 20 years (and was at a time when we were glad to get four or five members together, regardless of class) was reeently released from the hospital. He suffered several brolren vertebrae as a result of an automobile acddent. Tom Heam Is also one of the alumni who has a son at Notre Dame. 
Rev. Franda C Ott, old student, class of 1919, who returned to Notre Dame several years ago for a period of a year, was recently operated on for an internal disorder. For a few days they thought he would not live, but he pulled through and they expect him back on the job as dean of San Dieso diocese in San Bernardino County, Calif. 
1Q91 ^*** ^ - 1M^> 1(M TeiMiul Tnrcr. 
• ' ^ • Clevtirad, OUsc 
The NotreDame; Alumnus 
1922 ^"^ ^^^*' ^* ^* ^ Aveue. HMta. 
From Kid Aihe: Joseph E. DafFey is president of Industrial Kan­agement Engineers, Inc. with offices in the Singer Building. New York City. At present, Joe is on a business trip to the West Coast. He resides in Short Hills. N. J. 
That robust, good-looking gentleman attending the Santa Clara-U.S.F. football game in Kezar stadium. San Francisco, was our good friend Clcte Lyndu Clete is a traveling representative for the Lion Ribbon Co. of New York City, and his territory extends from Qiicago to the West Goast. Clete says he is an excellent, if only a. casual, fisherman. His arm spread is much too small to describe the length of a sea bass he recently caught at Martinez, Calif. 
When this goes to press the football season will be about finished. We must not neglect to mention the members of our class who are members of the coaching fraternity. As this is written Us^thorse Harry Hchre, at the University of Histissippi, has his team rating second to Tennessee in the South. A one-point loss to Arkansas is the only blemish on the record. Eddie Anderson at Iowa is having a bit more trouble than last year, but this was not unexpected due to graduation of Kinnicic Iowa will never be a "pushover" so long as Eddie is in charge. Santa Clara's Buck Shaw is again a power on the West COast. Santa Clara lost a one-point decision to Stanford who look like certain con­tenders in this year's Rose Bowl contest. Earl Walsh is doing excellent work scouting for Ford­ham. In the professional field, the Chicago Bears are outstanding. It might well be that Hank An­derson, line coach for the Bears, deserves more than a little share of credit for the team's success.' 
Ra^h Con^ is operating a wholesale dairy products business in Moline, 111. 
As this is written, we are without news of election results in Illinois, and we hope Jeny Jones is still assistant states attorney of Lee County, and that Jerry Dixon is still assistant atomey general of Illinois. 
Up in Seattle. Ed Codirane is busy at law. Also, he is a member of the draft board for the nearby town where he is resident. 
In Bridgeport, Conn., the class is represented by Dr. Harold Oscan and Jim Harphy, lawyer. Congratulations to the John Paal CalleBa of EIrahurst, III., on the birth of a son. 
Professor Clarence E. "Fat" Manien resigned his post as director of the federal office of gov­ernment reports in Indianapolis in order that he might participate in political activities in the cam­paign recently completed. Under the ^tc h act, Pat was prevented from such political activity. 
Soon to be elected to the Alumni Association Is Paul F. Nagle. of the class of '22, 333 East 53rd Street, New York City. Paul is an engineer in the commercial division of the operation and engi­neering department of the American Telephone and Telegraph. After spending two years at Notre Dame he finished at Carnegie Tech and — is still single! 
109? ^"^ ^ Castner, 137 Sovth Av e New ''^ ^ Canaan. Cannectient. 
From Paul Castner: 
I know the class of '23 will be nothing sort of shocked to hear from me. Mike Scffert had me sent up the river for one yenr and I just got out. 
You know, Mike, I was glad to hear tram yaa— as I know were the other members of the class, but your case against me wasn't very strong as you waited 16 years before you reported yourself. 1*11 grant you the class secretary should report regularly but my reports after all have to be based on those from class members. 
To bring my own history up to date, I have finally gotten out of the aatosMiluIe bosincss whid required travelins from one end of the cutmlry to the other, and am distriet agent in Fairfield coan­ty, Connecticut, for the Northwestern Hntoal Life Insurance company. 
I will miss very modi seeing many of yoa throughout the land—^but I can assure yoa my family—Mrs. Castner, Panl Jr., age 10, and Peter, age seven, are glad to have me home instead of traveling (at least so they tell rae). 
Frands Wallace and I spent considerable time together at the New York Army-Notre Dame gath­ering; I was also very plesaed to see Vice-President Rev; Jahn Gavaaaa^ and Jeff Pvwcia. Jeff is with the Goodridi Tire Company in New Yi ^ • and, with Red Shea, Hcwy Bamhart and « few others, is still a badielor. IMdc ReynaUs was also present with Mrs. Reynolds. He is with the New York "American** newspaper—and has been viOk them for some time, in New York. 
Arch Ward, of Chicago 'Tribune" fame, was also on for the game and reports that Jeka M— tacae is still doing an excdient job handling automotive adrertirinff for the Chicago "THbnae.** 
Judge Caiherry is stni with James Civwiey at Fordham, tnming oat very good ends, and Pm pleased to report that the Jodge left the bachelor ranks a few months ago. 
Let's hear from a few members of the class— my address is 137 South Ave.. New Canaan, Conn. I'm just one hoar out of New York, anyone in the big dty, give me a call—New Canaan, 189C. 
J. F. Bmftn. MS 7lli An, V—m UlS. 

1924 
New Tnk CltT. 
Jefai P. Hulcr. M8S BtMkUt WimL

1925 
lUriibOHiL 

From Jehn Hnfcy: 
"Varry StaUdrciwr wrote aa fallows in late October: 
"Witli all nendiers of the 1925 class at your command, yoa should ask me in the middle of a very hectic season to send yon some comments. Don't yon know that football coaches are nnreas­onnble, unbearable and one-track minded dnxinff the season? 
"Everyone has had a tremendous lift oat of the picture 'I&iate Bockne—^AH American." Many people have seen it three and four times so that yon see both Notre Dame and the youth of the country are twins well served tbionsA this m*»­terpieee. It has meant a lot to the Wisconsin squad whidi had the pleasure of seeins it as a spedal preview. 
"As yoo probably know we are in close tondi all the time with Elmer Laydca and the ganc at Notre Dame. All of us are. tremendously pleased to see the Notre Dame boys move on in srcat form. 
"Keep the old ears bent on the furniture bun­ness, John, for after the season we football coaches may have a chance to make use of fliis mnd> needed facility. At the moment we are sivinK the shoemaker a workout." 
Thanks loads, Barryl Ton and Elmer have set a wonderful example for the rest of the daas of '25. No one could be busier than the eoades. Too are familiar with Efaner's. schedule. Barry haa txken on Hanmette. Iowa. Northwestern. Fnrdoe, Illinois, Ctalnmbia, In£ana and a grand finale with Minnesota. We are all pnlUnc for yon. Harry. Lot of luck. 
Bcora Jska Hwley: 
Unless these '25 boys send in soma news Uiei, will be some "blanks" under, our number. Km a sure sign we are gettinK old — let's not let it happen yet! 
Ihe only dope is that I Miw Beb Warti and Ua charming wife at the minais game. Bob looks sreat and he and his fine family hail from Indian­apolis. Bob said they planned on seeing the North­vrestem game, too, so, %vith seeing two games in a season, he is hatting a much higher average than most of us. 
We drove over to the game •with Joe Navarre, '26, and his wife. Joe has a fine family- of five and -with the Democrats in in Michigan he is the leading dtizen of Honroe. 
Called Bad Barr, '26, while passing his Chal­mers, Ind. Bnd's still single and is still taking care of the family grain elevator. 

After the Illinois game we drove into Chicago for the midseason furniture market and. as I usually do there, I saw Paul Romweber. Paul hasn't changed a hit — even to that heaming smile. It comes in handy in melting those frozen-faced furniture buyers because he is still top man for his own American Furniture and Batesville Cabinet Oo. of Batesville, Ind. 
A Merry Christmas to all the class, and let's start the New Year right with news from all of yoo. 
Al E. Fellner was appointed a director of the Belleville. III.. Chamber of Commerce to represent industry at a recent meeting of the group, after relinauishing the presidential reins of the Cham­ber. He will also sen"e as general chairman of the industrial department of the organization. 
1926 3mmt» A. Ronan. 127 N. Dearborn St, CUcaffo, minois. 
BIr. DMky: I've been reading in the papers. Dooley, that some of these philatelists (stamp-collectors to you) are complaining that Frank Walker's Post Office Department is putting too many stamps in circula­tion. I wouldn't know much about that; but from personal observation it would seem that there is a serious shortage of the three-cent variety in the homes and offices of the members of the class of 1926. 
This month's offering was purposely delayed in the hope that we might gather some news items the day of the Iowa game. Again no luck — in either the game nor the matter of news-gathering. Saw DatA CDay, but only through the window of a Pullman car; and heard indirectly that Dan O'Neill was around somewhere. Hiat's all! 
That 15-year reunion is getting closer every month and we still have a lot of the boys to hear from. What has become of Fred Link? He was a regular Commencement visitor some years ago. And how about ^nce Goolet? I hope to catch up ^vith him in Chicago one of these days. Maybe we'll run into somebody next week at the North­western game. "Hope springs eternal," you know, Dooley. 
From that Army week-end in New York, via the Managing Ed.: Jolin Campbell was dovirn from Albany, where he is branch manager for the Com­mercial Investment Trust. . . . Rome sent Insur­ance Man Lovier, who reported on the two other Romans of *26; Ray Keiser is now with the A.P. in New York City and Fred Herbst is putting out the home town paper. .. . Doc Gelson said that, on Oct. 22. Clem Cr*we, head coach at Xavier in Cincinnati, had become the papa of Crowe No. 9. a son. . . . Score: five boys, four girls. . . . Dan O'Neill, the Newark public utility operator, went to Mayo's right after the Army game for a check­up on some stomach difficulty. 
Ed Fallm, same as ever, enjoyed the Reunion and Rally. . . . Ditto for Doc G. Weldon Hayes, the eminent obstetridan from Joisey. .. . I saw Sim Dwyer, a handsome gray-haired gent, at least three times, bat never at a moment when I could shake hands witti him. . . . Tom Ferrnson was down from Connecticut. . . , His family and Milt PiepaTs live within a few doors of each other in ^ompsonnlle. .. . J. Artliar Haley — where have I heard that name? -^ wasn't worrying about the rain, what with a sell-out on Sept 15. .. . Ed Harvan, the genial, was shaking hands all around. .. . as was Larry Keefc, whose Lily Tulip cups were a feature of the R. and R. 
Harold Robertson was at at the R. and R. with the Howard Haleys, '24. . . . Vic Yawman was in from . . . Rochester. . . . And Chailie Mason, from Indianapolis, was checking up on the New Ycrk telephones, along with Mrs. Mason, who was seeing her first Army game. 

Here and there, with the aid of the '26 "Dome": Norb Engeb, who combines professoring at N.D., furniture-making and writing, did a grand job on a couple of recent articles in "Columbia.** .. . I saw Dr. Bert CoagMin in St. Ix)uis. .. . He is progressing handsomely in his practice and has two children, one Bert, Jr., bom Oct. 1. . . . Bert is president of the N.D. Club of St. Louis, and a remarkably successful one. .. . I also had a few minutes with Frank Klein, who is on the copy desk of the St. Louis "Globe-Democrat." .. . Bert and Frank are both counting on the reunion next spring, and Frank will try to bring Pastor Keitt Rodie with him. 
Mayor McGinley, of Ogallala, Nebr., was on the campus for a short spell a few weeks ago, looking very prosperous. . . . Claod Pitsenbercer, of In­dianapolis, also checked in at the local precinct.. • hasn't changed a bit. . . . Vxnce Soisson. with his wife, was in from Connellsville, Pa., for the Iowa game .. . his first at N.D. since he finished .. . did you ever connect with Knaos. Vince? . . . Jim Withey returned to the English faculty in February after a leave of absence .. . he continues to look fit. . . . Joe Ryan, '24, known to many *26ers, is back this year. too. after a long stretch in Arizona* .. . Joe is taking some classes .. . feels fine. 
There are many reports on the fine accomplish­ments of Dr. Jim Stadc in Chicago .. . he teaches in the Northwestern Med School and has an ex­cellent practice. . . . Art Sdieer, South Bend, was re-elected prosecuting attorney of St. Joe County on the Democratic ticket. . . . Jay Masenidi con­tinues in advertising with the South Bend Lathe Works. . . . Jolut O'Donnell and his wife suffered an automobile wreck en route to the Navy game, but came out of it with relatively minor injuries. . . . Say a prayer for the soul of Wilbar McEIray (See "Deaths," this issue). . . . Saw El Mahoncy, advertising tycoon, in Indianapolis last summer. . . . Herb Bart, leading stock and bonder, I met in Chicago. 
And don't forget May 30 and 31 and June 1. Mr. Ronan is aching to arrange things for you, and the local '26 contingent will be glad to cooperate . . . But it all means nothing unless a large ffanff of you check in. Attendance makes a reunion. Tell Ronan right off, on one of your Christmas cards, that you'll be here. . , . Your attendance will mean the attendance of three or four of your pals. It works that way. We'll be seeing yon. And you'll be hearing from Ronan. 
 M. BaluiC AtUetic OMci. 



1927 jMeph 
Natre Daau^ Tailaita. 

From Joe Boland: 
Armstrong and Dadey want these things to be short, and to the point: don't know how PIl posd­bly compress a recent letter of Andy Sleigkfs, be­cause he really opened up the gates in his missive. He recalled Gene Edwards, now adding to an al­ready-established fine reputation as athletic direc­tor and football coach at St. Vincent's College. Latrobe. Pa. Things are too quiet in Weston, W. Va., for Andy, and he misses Gene and all the other lads. He sends his best to one and all—and extends another of those "board and room" invita­tions to the brethren. He has only 5 children: so he has plenty of room. Andy wanted to know where Joe BEaxwcU and Hack MeCaffeiy are now: thought everyone knew, from these column»—bat here it is again. Max is line coadi at Cincinnati University, and Lt. Hag^ McCaffery is flying Uncle Sam's staff around the air over Hawaii. 
Jalia HcManMon checked in at the Army game; stiU with the ]ffighway Department in Massachu­setts, and still possessing the roses in his cheeks and the blarney on his tongue. Art Monaco, in ad­vertising in New York City, checked in at the same time. 
Jalui Brennan was glimpsed on the fly at the rally in New York for the Army game; Dan Can­niogkaai called Army weekend—n details, but Dan reports everything under control. 
John Brinkman, just in case I didn't tell you last time, is encouraging the young idea at Fenger High School' in Chicago, where he is on the facul­t>-. His two children help him in the process. 

Laa Cbnroy, just about running Flint. Mich., for the Bell Telephone Co., used up his employees privilege to call your scrivener and prattie for some time. He's still the same—says he doesn't connect with many of the '27 though; same old complaint! From Lou I learned of the recent death of Art "Bud" Boeringer's dad—a remarkable, and well-loved man. I know yoa will join in sympathy. 
Your "scriv" i>opped over to Philadelphia after the Army gxmie, and there came across the writ­ings of Walter Wellesley "Red" Smith, once of Green Bay and '27, who now informs the palpi­tating public of Philadelphia on sports proceed­ings, in the "Record." And a swell job he does, tco! 
Remember Alex Sievers? Sure, you do—^he's a lawyer, now, from Elkhart; used to plunge on that alleged swimming team of oars? 275 pounds? Remember ? Well, your scrivener ran across old swimming-teammate Alex one fine day last sum­mer—and where, do you think? At Bamum and Bailey's circus, where both of us were looking at the elephants—and the elephants were looldng right bade at us I 
PIl be seeing you! 
 F. BadJejr, Box 1», N.tn Dum.


1928 iMi. 
Tluuiks to Aacie Grams, Bad Callacr. and the otber *28 men who cooperated with them, asain we meet the deadline with two letters packed fall of news. I most admit Augie and Bad were in a spot havins to follow John Ridiord bat they didn't let that discoaraee them the least. It is just as well the guest writers' letters didn't run quite as lonK as Biekoid's because if we kept that up I fear lim Aiastm r and Bill Dookr would be billing the '28 men for a special assessment to cover printing eorta. Hie November number is h^ng referred to a* the Biekord '28 issue of the 'Alumnus." 
Jost a word about the election returns before I give yon the letters. Ihe class of '28 will be tq>reiented again in Congress by Bab Grant who was le-eleeted on the Republican ticket from this congressional district. I had a letter from Bob KMy who was active in directing Oonle Dme­vaa'a eampaugn as Democratic nominee for Sec­retary of State in Indiana. Oonie unfortunately lost out in a. very close race. Oonie; Bob Grant and Bin FltsgnaU. '23, a candidate for judge of the Indiana Supreme Court, all were overwhelm­ingly victorious at the Notre Dame precinct. 
Jalui F. BaMniau came through with the fol­lowing letter in response to Biderd's request but it arrived a few days too late to be included in the notes of last month. 
"I have been quite busy since onr graduation days. Tbere have been seven or eight exdting years of partiapation in politics and varioas Kni^ts of Colnmbns activities. At one time I was serving as qiedal assistant to the tax commis­sioner for this.state. However, I have preferred to devote most of my energies recently in educational work, retiring to the confines of a "dyed-in-the­woot" Omneetient prep school, the Cheshire Acad-MBy, Cbediire; Conn. At the present time I am 
kept active as'- director of our junior school at Cheshire. 
"I note in your communication that you are the proud father of two boys and'two girls. I liave been blessed with two fine daughters and I hope to boast eventually of a future candidate for Notre Dame. I can't say that my two daughters will head for St. Mary's, because I am a member of the advisory board of Albertus Magnus College, an excellent Catholic girls' school in New Haven. 
- "The only member of our class with whom I come in contact is John Cnllinan of Bridgeport, Conn. He has become a successful lawyer and we have been active tosether in Democratic politics of this state. John succeeded me when my term of office expired as president of the Young Demo­crats of Connecticut, You can see that we have kept up the Notre Dame team-work in this section. Incidentally, 1 was happy to have John as an usher at my wedding. 
"Last summer while traveling through the mid­dle west for the Cheshire Alumni Association, I had the good fortune of visiting with Harold Rappcl in Cleveland, my old room-mate. Harold is married and is also the father of two girls. As you probably know, he has been associated with Bin O'Neill in the interstate trucking business since leaving Harvard. It is rather ironical that, after leaving Notre Dame, Harold should choose Har­vard for advanced study while I picked Yale Uni­versity." 
Thank you, John, for your cooperation. No doubt you are very happy over the Democratic victory in Connecticut. 
And now I will give you a Aagie Grams' con­tribution from La Crosse, Wis., for which we are very grateful; 
"Really I do not know what effect my news will have after such a complete letter that you had from John Rickord in the last 'Alumnus.* Congrat­ulations are certainly in order for John, and perhaps I should add at this time an apology to John for not answering his card at the time of his call. 
"It is good to know that I am a co-partner in giving a report, for Martin Callagy will without doubt carry a lot of good news from the East, (not to say that I have full coverage of the West) My call for news was mailed on election day, and 1 certainly have enjoyed a lot of pleasure in the many returns I have had. 
•"It was of interest to receive my first letter from the first whom I met at Brovmson Hall back in '24. Thanks to Bob Fogerty, whom you all know is teaching at St. Thomas College in SL Paul. Bob brought back a lot of memory in writing of our first group in old Brownson study hall. Good to hear of Father Bemie Coyghlin, who is on the staS at St. Thomas with Bob. 
"More news from St. Paul way came from Tom Hahon. Tom has been down to La Crosse, — in fact .one of the few of the '28 men to ever stop. Tom is now with the firm of Jameson & Co., in the brokerage business. Tom writes the good word that Joe O'Haia of Glencoe, out of school a few years ahead of us, was elected to Congress. 
"Speaking of men of the class to call I cannot forget Hayes Haiphy of Rock Island who came up the Mississippi in his speed boat' some few years ago. Saw TOM Hearden here at La Crosse this summer. Tom was here for a coaching school conducted by Harry Stahldreher. Tom, by the way, is considered the outstanding high .school coach in the state. 
'toward Phalin has called several times on his way from the cities to Chicago; had a word but not a great deal of help for the column, for he, like many of my prospects, were called the pre­vious month by John Bieksrd. 
"Attain from St. Paul — word from Bay Ho ^ who has been doing sodal work for the past five years. Ray tells of receiving an invitation to Dr. John Viktoryn'a wedding. John is practicing in Cleveland. Ray also relates that Dare KreMta an­nually pays a visit; Dave, as you know, spends his time in Stevens Point, Wis. 
"Did get a lot of family news from Bill Konop, who is tax attorney for Bell Telephone in Indian­apolis. Bill is married, has two children, and for exclusive news — a surprise in spring. Bill tells of B. X. Gremillion, who is transmission engi­neer for Bell Telephone, married, two children, and ready for visitors to his new home. Sorry to hear that John Glasha has been ill. Our great family man of '28, Robert Emmett Kirby. has been elected Secretary of the State Board of Embalm­ers. Bill writes. Bill also writes of JIM B* ^ ninff, who is with the State Unemployment Com­pensation Department in Indiana, and of Ed Cunningham, who is traveling -for Phillips Petrol­eum Corporation. 
"Now for the latest word from Frank McCar­thy; Mac gives word that he has moved to Fort Wayne with the Van Camp Milk Cbmpany, and that it was not hard to do as he is yet a bachelor. Mac writes of Joe McNamara and Barney O'NcU of Indianapolis, and of Joe Madden, who is with the Lincoln Life Insurance Co. in Columbus. Ber­nard Schoh is with the Berghoff Brewing Co.; Mike Hogan, manager of a drug store; and Henry Hasley, attorney in Fort Wayne and president of the local Notre Dame club. I was glad to hear from Mac that he has heard from my old room­mate, Chet Rice; I haven't had a word since he is married. 
"A telegram from John Frederick gives word that many of our class will be back for the Iowa game. John plans to be with Dave Kreabo; I do hope I get to see them as well as many of the others. John tells of being -n-ith Joe Hortissey at the Georgia Tech game. 
"To keep in the state of Michigan, — bad a fine letter from Loa Norman. News from Lou — that Neil Amiot is married, father of two, and doing very well in business at Wyandotte. 'Diat Don Ran is still located in Cedar Springs, and the father now of three — a new arrival a short time ago. Lou writes that Carl Petterach, Vine* Slace and Henry Clark are all with Detroit Edison Co.; Lou would like to hear from Frank McCarthy, John Sieter and Tom Mahon. Lou is doing very well with GMAC in Detroit, — married but no family. ­
"Not to take away news from the East from Martin Callagy, but I received a long letter from Joe Geraghty, from Rochester, N. Y. It is the first I have heard of Joe since leaving school and it was more than welcome. Joe wrote a lot of news so here goes — that Phil O'Connor is working with Eastman Kodak, single; Joe Debott in the haberdashery business in Geneva, also single; John Latscn is sanitary inspector in Geneva, 
N. Y., married; Jim Berry farming out of Geneva, also has an orchestra which is very popular in his neighborhood; Joe Haney is practicing law in Newark; Don Corbett very busy these days as as­sistant attorney general in Rochester. Joe writes that he has been in the brokerage business since 1929, married, and the father of two. 
"George Coaiy wrote a note to cover Chicago news, and tells of John Marphy moving to Little Rock, Ark.; that Frank Donovan operates a whole­sale drug company in Chicago. To get a partial list of our class places many in the brokerage business; incomplete returns show Boh HaMihm in New York, Gcoige Coary in Chicago, and as mentioned before, Tom Mahon in St. Paul, and Joe Geraghty in Rochester. 
"Joe Langton writes from Peoria; spends the greater paart of his time in charge of tire sales with the Phillips Petroleum Co. Joe is maiv ried, has one daughter, and, for more exclusive news, a blessed event expected at the Langton home soon. Joe tells of Al Gary who is working in Peoria in a department, and of Jehn CUVB . who is in Salina, Kansas. 
"To go South, 1 have a fine report from none other than Viace Dacey. maes^ aa ym peihi«s know, is teaching at the KORIS Sdiool lor Bo*a at Searcy. Ark. .Vince tdb of Bib rnlwM taUac a very fine post in New Yotk, and is now Brias in aimie New York snhnib. flie naaw of nUck ia' something of a state aeeret. "Vinee also atnt s program of tiie Notre Daiae Ahuani de e Chib sdiolarship fund eoneem given in Chicaco tUa past sommer. in whidi he.points with pride tiiat half of the gmop were memhera of the ineoMgai^ able Glee Chib of 1928. 
"And now for the Southwest, ./bi air mail B* ^ sage from Jae O'Dawd from Dallas, Texas. Jo* has kept in the same bosiness for a kng tine; which all means that he is dtnng rii ^ ivelL Be is covering the western part of the eguatry witk a commissary contractor, has been married tiie. past six years, hot no diildren. ChaiBe Mmr is. the only Notre Dame man. Joe has seen in Dallaa. By the -way. Joe's new address is 1101 Boss Ave., Dallas. ­
"A letter from Jee Menisety just under the wire; Joe spends his time with the King Mfg^ Cob in Cincinnati, has three boys and one giil..Inta^ esting to know of Bstia Ciewlty, big league vm­pire. Must be because of the start wMi our *2T team! Good to bear of Jeha Hyaa and Jalni Cav^ naagh: we all should have a meeting place at some of the football games each year. 
"With direct word from BiB Deelty that Oil report nnut rcadi yon by the 15th I anist hnrxy. However, this morning's mail must be leeogaixad. An air mail letter from Jim Sheckatasy out of Columbus; and really in detail. Jim wiitca of 3ee Bigaey. Marty Biai. Hadssa Jeffrey. Jeka Fa » taaa. Beraie Zippeier, Jee Ktaacaiy. Ji a BaU. AI Tchaa. Naik Seidfastfctor. BiB OVeBL Bal WikdMy and BiB Lcdv- Sony all this is so lata hot it is noon and the date — the 13th! Annflier ! note — Dave ¥riM>», up Stevens Point way, aa mentioned previously in this report, is martiing and t»»i*ing Fliysical Kdnoition, Dave will he at the Iowa game. 
"And now for the last ntessage — air mail bum Fadwr Aady Ibbcaay who -writes: 
" 'So yon have been selected to he ignest COB^ dnctor. Wish I had sufficient matter to hdp you pad the column, c^iedally after the great "28 showing of this past mooth.-Bat I have seen vciy few N.D. men here lately.' 
"VaUMr Jsatfli H. Baike, who was diiactnr of studies when we entered NJ)., is our new pastor and is already firmly estahUabed with our people after three months in New Orieans.' 
"•WiOanl Wagacr, with flw Mrs. and bicodn viritcd me about a month agow and we had a few pleasant hours together and saw tl>e inttnetiBK sights of New Orleana. Haven't seen Belaa Barha for over six months. The Notre Dame Chib of New Orleans had a preview of Rock's picture^ but I could not make the showing. The New Or­leans papers are pralsinK Msaa liaHaa^ woHc at St. Ambrose. Moon was with us for three yaaia as coach at Loyola of the SonUi.' 
" 1 am still acting as diaplain at the Oriaaas Parish PUsoo and also enjcy lay visits to tta City Mmtal hospital (really). Of course. I a a active in the work at Saeicd Biert parish, eoe of the finest in the South. I have enouA worit ta keep me busy and I find very Uttle tinw for eor.­re^wnding. By the way. thaf a sooe faadly yoa have. Saw the saaaosraBBcd Uds ia one isMM of "Life." How laudi did it eoet youT* 
" "Bapa this bit of news win hdp oat. CSva my best to any of the boys you may meet aad if yoa ever get South be sore and caU oa mm.' 
"And so. Back, this Js aB that I have to nvoefe ' In dosing amy I tfaaak yoa for the opportoalty of serving, for I enjoyed more tiiaa I ever iaaidaad hearing bam ererycoe. SbMe this report is to st^ pear in the IV 11 Mill i 'Alamniis,* aay.I wiA yoa and aU the fdhnrs' of the Class at 'ta m very Merry Chiistaas." 
throat with ON foBowbc letter from Albany, N. Y., for which you have our thanks. Bud. 
"I manaeed to gather a little information. In seneraU the situation seems to be: everyone doing 
•well and the children growing nicely. 
"From Indiana, Blike Ricks lists first, and as most important, the fact that he is the father of three boys, including twins. He forwarded their pictures and I can attest that his affectionate de­scription is entirely justified. He has teen on his own in the law for some time dealing in probate. real estate and corporate law and has built him­self a house on East Union Street in Lafayette. Of Bob MoUman, he writes that, after spending a term in the state le^slature. Bob entered his £&ther*s bu^ness. 
"During last summer. Mike met Henry Halsey in Fort Wayne at a legal meeting. Henry has two children and is practicing law. In closing his letter to me. Hike asks to hear from Bob Steepler, Joe Hilger and Fruik Hegarty. 
"Since Mike asks for Frank, I have this to tell him. On Nov. 6, Frank announced the arrival of another daughter, and is living at 124 South Pasa­dena Drive, Pittsburjrfi, Pa. Recently Frank saw Blarcns FarreU. From the voluminous next gener­ation which this letter is reporting. Marc has picked the right career —^pediatrics. 
"In New. Jersey, Lon Carr is the genius behind the Coast Cities Coaches, Inc., of Avon-by-the-Sea. N. J.. oi>erating approximately 60 coaches, and he is doing an excellent job. In a letter to me he adds his own three children to the long list of '2S men and concludes that they all seem to be doing well 'along that line.' 
"Lou sees Herli HcCabe, who is working in New York City and lives in Long Branch, N. J. Herb has two boys. Sometimes ago he had a major operation but is now as fine as ever. They get together once in a while, says Lou, with a little better than they had at Mrs. Nick's. 

''Bill (Clipper) Smith is head coach at Asbury Park high school, asdsted by Bill (Butch) Bmno. For both of them this is their first year and so far they have gone undefeated. 
"Just as I was about to send this, a letter came from Stanton in Efaensburg, Pa. Sol is practicing medicine there, has two boys and a girl, and in­vites anyone passing his way to come in and enjoy his ^x acres. 
"I think that tells the story. Buck, except to say thanks for giving me the opportunity of contrib­uting to the 'Alumnus.* *' 
As we go to press I note the following '28 men are registered in the Alumni Office as having been here for the Iowa game: Dr. Paul Tobin, 540 South St , Elgin, III.; Conrad BL Odioa» 172 Con­stitntion Ave.. Guadalajara, Mexico; Dr. Bfarcus 
E. Farrdl, Clarksburg, W. Va.; Jim Alien was here from Chicago. 
Our plans for the next issue include notes from Loo Carr and Bob Grant. I want the engineers to drope a note to Lou at Avon-by-the-Sea, N. J., so he will be able to give us complete coverage of the '2S engineers such as John Fafan and Chet Rice did a few years ago. Also let me urge the A.B. and A.B.-LL.B. men to write to Hon. Bob at the House OfHce Bldg., Washington, D. C, so he will be able to pack as much information in his notes as he did in his recent campaign speeches. 
P. McNamarm. Attorney Gen­1929 en l Office, Indianapolis, Indiana. 
Heard every IMesday afternoon from 5:30 to 

5:45 is Professor Reynolds C Scitx in his radio program "The Alphabet Boards'* conducted by the Creigfaton University of the Air in Omaha. Nebr. llie broadcast is backed by the Creighton Univez^ sity School of Law. 
A source of pride to St. Gabriel's parish of Connersville, bid., is a copy of Murillo's Im­maculate Gonc^tion in oil painted by one of its parishioners. Bill Heineman. The painting, hung in St. Gabriel's School, is on a canvas 48 z 72 inches. 
IQ9 A Richard L. Donogfane, SIO RivcnMo Dr., IT^ U New York City. 
From Dick Donogfane: 
Things arc looking up, mates, as regards news. We have been rescued from the pit. so to si»eak, by a timely suggestion which Bill Dooley gave us. on his recent trip tothe Army game. Bill's stig­gestion was that we consider the idea of having guest contributors add their news to this column, after the style employed so effectively by the Hon­orable Bnchley of the '28 class. Although siud Buckley gave your correspondent one grand rib­bing in the K. of C. initiation about 13 years ago, we can't help but agree with Dooley, that Back­ley conducts a grand column, and we will at­tempt to mimic him. (AH is forgiven, Buckley— all!) We hope that Lou doesn't cite us for plagiar­izing his idea, and while we are in the wishing mood, we hope the idea works half as well for us, as it does for him. So, here we go, and we begin by hearing from Aaguat L. Bondi, district mana­ger of the Uetroimlitan Life Insurance Company in Indianapolis. Gus reports, as follows: 
"This is to acknowledge your appeal for help relative to class news. Your letter sounded so fran­tic that I am getting this letter ofiT immediaely to you. 
"Well, about this so-called election we had last week, I have bad news. Clarence 'Oonie* Donovan ran for secretary of state on the Democratic ticket, and was defeated by his Republican oppon­ent by a few thousand votes. He put up a good fight, but he lost. Al Feeney, '14, went through a terrific campaign with his G.O.P. opponent, and he won by about 3,000 votes. He was the only Democrat to win in this county. 

"I am very busy at the present time, because as president of the Indianapolis Alumni Association, with the help of about five other fellows, we are sponsoring a special train to the N.D.-Iowa foot­ball game. The purpose of it is to raise moncT for our scholarship fund; 
"I see by our alumni directory that we have eight members of the class of '3D living in Indian­apolis, but the only ones I have seen lately are: John Rocap, who is a promising attorney, and Bill Konop who is with the Bell Telephone Com­pany. I have seen Paul J. Kleizer several times, and he is an engineer with the Indiana State Board of Health Dept. Between now and the first of the year, I will attempt to round up all of Ihe members of the class of '30, who live here, and see how much news I can get for you. 
"I heard some time ago that BlU Waldi, who lives in Brooklyn, was married. I wish you woold get in touch with him, and tell him that I would like to hear all about the big wedding.". 
Many thanks, Gus I Your letter was excellent, and we are looking forward to more news after New Year's. Then, we come to another fine letter from Bob Hellrang, director of the St Louis Med­ical Credit Bureau, Inc., and Bob writes as follows: 
"At the present time, I am chairman of a schol­arship fund committee here in St. Louis, and we are raising funds with which to send a St. Louis boy to Notre Dame next year." 
Bob also sent his apologies for a late reply to our appeal for news on the crowd in his area, and also mentions that fae is exceptionally busy at this time of year handling some other extra-currieular activities. Your letter was fine. Bob, and we appre­ciate it a lot. I had asked Bob for a few indde tips on how to conduct this column, having tflkyn over the reins from him. He suggested that I "stick in there and pitch," and that fae would help out from time to time. So, we are Inbrieatins the old "flipper," and will try to "fog *em across the plate" as best we can, and with the help of 
all. Inddentally,: Bondi and Hellrang are advanc­ing WOTthy-'calces durinjg their spare time, and we vdA them'every success. 
Your corropondence threw a high-body block at Tom IjmtzT^-JiB Rizer and Tim TMmey the other ni^ t kt.tlie New York club committee dinner, and brought them-dbvra to "brass tacks" as regards class news. Before they knew it, th ^ were hard at work'.'ginng a hand to this column. At the moment, „-IUzier, was opening an account with Toomey-in:one. way or another, and Toomey tvas just about'to:shell qut—so maybe we saved some­one some money.. At any rate, here is what came oat of it;ali: Pat Hastings is operating a restau­rant in Clintini, Mass. Harry Lantiy is also in the restaurant business wiUi his brother, in Helena, 
N. Y.; Harry has a family of four fine Idddies. and everything is grand. Looks like fae and Pat Hastiivs might get together and form a chain of restaurants. Judge Con Carey is holding forth as county judge at Malone, N. Y. Don SaUivan is headquartering at Northampton. Mass. 

Andy Aman came in from Columbus, Ohio, for the Army game, and Tom Lantxy met him in the Roosevelt Hotel for breakfast. R u Redgate is an undertaker in Bridgeport, (Tonn., and is doing very welL Jim DiOey is baseball and football coach at North Tarrytown, N. Y. Jim Declcy is sales manager of the Brooklyn Union Gas Co., and brought the salesmen to the Anny game to celebrate a recent successful sales campaigri. Hoolcy Smith is having a good year at Mt. St. Michael's in the Bronx, and as this is written, is getting set for the Tlianksgiving Day game with JaA Lavdk's team of All Hallows. (Jack was setting up a defense for Hooley's team, the other evening at the dinner I mentioned—and I believe some one mailed the table cloth to Hooley, just in case!) 
Lany. Cronin^ the father of two children, at­tended the Army game functions, having come down from. Elmira, N. Y.; and we observe that his forehead is gradually moving upward and backward, as in contrast to our own, which is being attacked from the rear. Jim 0*Roarke is back in New York, returning recently from Fitts­bursh; Jim circulated about the Commodore Hotel the nit^t before the Army game also—looking as fine as ever. Tom Bradley also shares this youth­ful appearance. Pat Conway renewed many old aeqw^tanees at the Navy game in Baltimore; Pat is coodiing football at Cumberland, Hd., again, having been recalled from Philaadelphia to con­tinue his good work. 
Art DeuMhy is with the publicity department of Wam» Brothers and is active in N. Y. dub affairs during his spare time. H e Rockne picture ought to be a "natural" for- Art to exploit his talents on. Jlmtk FonDces is the credit manager of a lumber company in Amityville. L. I., and "Doc" Bradley is a physician in the same town. Vlnee McC^ it an attorney in Shrewdsberry, N. J., so Toomey' reports after seeing him in court (l^m was ndther plaintiff nor defendant, however): just n MeCoe booster! The gang from old Sopho­more Hall will remember this McCae as an early morning "peraeculor" with his eloquent Irish imitations. 
Tommin Mnrphy from Bridgeport,Conn., and his brother. Urn, were in town for the Army game also; Ibm looks fine, and we understand is doing some coaching, and is also engaged in busi­ness in Bridgeport. Dinny Siuy made a mid­summer appearance in New York, in between his work in Florda in an aviation plant and coaching vrith Adam Wafali at Bowdoin College in Bnms­wiek. Me. Looks like an all-weather arrangement, at that. At Wihnington, DeL, Bob Hasscy joined the N. Y. club special ipdn to the Navy game, and yon are ri^t in *£Mnking that Bob is with the doPtont Company. Tom Fimwgan of Jersey Citar, attended the N. Y: vlob Reunion and Rally, and the Army game. Mike Bidkko represented northern New Jersey at the''game. Kenny Bcx­
•traw is with the Anaerican Can Co. Tom Lantty 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
and Dmn Halpin. '31, saw Frank BflcGreal a while 
aso, and said that they had an all>roand conver­
sation with him about his present activities. BiU 
Shanon buys a well-known weekly maganne in 
Belleville. N. J., so as to read certain news about 
Jersey (Hty, where he is employed. Bill wasn't 
able to set a copy in Jersey City, and you guess 
why. 
We hear that Dr. Paal "Bucky" O'Connor is the proud daddy of two children, and that maybe we'll set a slimpse - of Bucky at some future NJ>. affairs. Art Hariey showed up at the N. Y. showing of the Rockne picture, «nd we were glad to see him again. Johnnie McCarthy of K.D. bas­ketball game fame, is now a special agent for the Koyal Insurance Co. in Illinois. We would have a word from thee, Johnnie, for our next column. Frank Donn is with the Ford Motor Co. and as you "Watch the Fords Go By," look for Dunn! BiU Walsh of Brooklyn is with the United Fruit Co., but we have yet to see him at the local meetings, so we can't deliver Gas Bondi's message to him. Ed Ifdiren of Beverly Hills. Calif., blew in for the Army game, together with his wife. Ed is affiliated with a soft drink concern on the coast, and he is now promoting a very popular soft drink out there, which is the "peoples* choice." 
Warren Fogel was chairman of the N. Y. club Navy game trip, and did the usual good job with it. Warren is an attorney, as well as a loyal rooter of Fordham Prep; all of which kept him pretty active all Fall. Tim Toomey is a master* mind of the Koyal Indemnity Co, in New York, as well as a pillar of the New York Club. Hm was the official escort of "OlUe" Olsen on the night of the Reunion and Rally, having stttled for "Ollie" when he couldn't bring Johnson also. Tim saw their show from the "wings." incidentally, but he couldn't be persuaded to join them on the stage. Jim Riicr escorted a nifty blonde to the Navy game at Baltimore, then spent that week­end in (^cinnati. Ohio; maybe he rode back with the team! Hie latest on Jack Cassidy is that he is now in Buffalo. N. Y.. with American Laundry Machinery Co., and we would like to have him ccntrihute a letter on events taking place in that area. 
We hope to have more letters to incorporate in this column for the next issue of the "Alumnus," and again urge the gang to drop us a postal card or a letter. 
Andrew Leo Love is' assistant comptroller of Postal Telegraph. Inc., and subsidiary companies, in New York City, having recently resigned his post at Arthur Anderson & Co., public accounants. 
Leo J. Scanlon was re-elected to the office of prosecuting attorney of Crawford County. Ohio, for his second four-year term in the Nov. 5 elections. 
Loais Hatchinson is acting as director of the federal office of government reports in Indianap­olis, succeeding Clarence E. "Pat" Bfanlon who re­cently resigned. Louie had been assistant adminis­trator under Pat, 
Tom Marphy is head coach of football at the Cheshire Academy, Cheshire. Conn., where he is reported as doing a fine job. Panl Lodier, *38i is assisting John F. RiAinson. *28, in the junior school work at Cheshire. Paul spent the past two years in graduate work at Harvard. 
IQ^ I Jaha Berr«n» 838 E. Colfax ATCMM* 
• ' * • Soath Bend, Indiana. 
From John Bergan: With the football season practically over, we can no longer expect to see the many members of the class in the vicinity of South Bend and the campus. The four games at home afforded many visits with classmates and the mention that others vere present. Everyone with whom we talked on these week-ends seemed very enthusiastic about the ten-year reunion and vowed that nothing short 
of military training would stop them from being 
on hand on May 30, 1941. 
Thanksgiving Day was a great day in Roches­ter, N. Y., when Miss Mildred Jean Clements and John G. Dorschel were married at Our Mother of Sorrows church. Among those present were Wal­ter "Dutch" Ridley, the Philadelphia engineer, and Mart Bowling, Atlantic.Stamping Company execu­tive. Our best wishes to the Dorschels. A pro­spective student for the University class of 1962 is Luis Godoy. Jr., who was bom in Havana, Cuba, last month. His dad promises full run of the city to any member of the class who can af­ford a Cuban visit. His address is 464 Entre Aguacate Y Villegas, Havana. After a great race nnd campaign, Oonie Donovan lost a close finish for the secretary of stateship of Indiana. It was certainly a fine experience for Oonie and provided him with statewide recognition in Democratic circles of that state. 
We are sorry that you cannot read of the doings of the class in New York and Champaign, bat our scouts did not come through with the news that was promised by Monahan and Taohy. The Iowa week-end brought Ray Smith, Denver salesman; Bob Neydon, Detroit industrialist; Fanl Dancan, lisSalle, 111., cement manufacturer; John Zab«ck> Ashtabula, Ohio, mortician; Eddie Ryan, Chicago rail weld executive; BiU Lahey, Chicago business machine sales correspondent; Bill Habing* Indian­apolis accountant; Dan Egan, Chicago engineer; Coleman O'Shanghnessy, New York ad man; Bert Metzger and the Rev. Bonrke Hotsett of Eewanee, III. 
Joe Meitzler is now traveling for a Danville hardware concern and makes South Bend occa­sionally. Ellsworth IK^Ison is selling insurance and managing a cigar store in his native Jutland, Ind., while Clem Wolsieffer has left Shelbyville and is now in Los Angeles. Norm Herwit is also in that California city and expects to see the. 
U.S.G.
 game. Walter Wolanski is practicing law ill Plains. Fa. Herman Ziffrin, in town for the Iowa game, related that he is located in liouisville and is managing a trucking concern in addition to practicing law. Forrie West is now practicing architecture in Gary, Ind., and has designed many of the new FHA homes that were built in that district this past year. Dick Walsh is located with the General Electric company in Schenectady, 

N.
 Y. Howard Maloney is in the shrubbery busi­ness in Dansville. N. Y., with his father and re­


' cently built a new home. Ednardo Melian is a consulting chemist engineer for a U. S. rubber company in Manila. BiU McNoI^ is selling Ufe insurance in South Bend and has recently pur­chased a new home for his wife and BiU, Jr. 
Joe MaxweU is now city editor of Gallitzen, Pa., "News." Jack Lyndi, Joe Lanerman, Norh Christ-man,, Bert Maloney, Al Calrer, Bffl ' Kerrisaa, Walt CahiU, Hemic Leahy, Frank McGreai Dan O.'TooIc, Jim Doyle, Vince Poni^ Dave RadE and Jim Griffin were spotted at the Northwestern game. Johnny Brown is practicing architecture in Central Falls. R. I. Jim Bosco is selling confec­tioneries for the Bunte Candy company and is Uvicg in Lawrenceville, Ind., where he is married and Uving on the Bosco estate. 
Having tried about every known inducement for class news this column now offers a huge box of candy for wife, son or daughter for the most . tntersting Christmas class news letter or card. Get bu ^ mates for 10 years is a long time without news of many of the class of '31. 
Frank P. Flynn.' head of the University's De­partment of Social Work, was elected vice-pred­dent of the American Parole association, afHliate of the American Prison congress. 
David Nash is. now an attorney in the legal department of W. R. Grace ft Co., New York City. After leaving Notre Dame he finished in law at Harvard, 
 T. IgM» 328 Soatk Jtf« 


1932 Jams 
Chkaga, HHasji. 

Secretary's note:: Hie zenith! — The customers do aU the work. Thank yoo. boys. 
Letter from Mika Crawford: 
"It's Fran Ocfeikh. bat I never knew he was that good looking. 
*'Not mudi news from here. Am practidng ob­stetrics here in Lakewood (Cleveland soboxb), married, and with a three-month-old son. I have, of lat^ been writing Cleveland club news for the 'Alumnus' and I know that every lut o£ news yoQ can set will be welcome. [Secretary's note: Kee­rect!] 
"Jade CeUiB* and Nidc BaCinc are praetidns law in Cleveland. Nick has jost succeeded Jack as Cleveland chib president. Hach Ball is workins here and, at present, takins flying lessons. Tour Chieaso friend. Bill Sadth vras (or is) here with Bmnswiek-Ba]ke.CalIender but I have not seen him. 
"Taa, MfTjaikH,, '33, has liis own foodteoker­
•ase office here. Kev. Pad HalWnaa is at St Aloysios Chnreh in Cleveland. Geaixa y-^fkj ooachinK at John Adams Hi ^ school, had last year's city champions in foothalL Hmrai4 Hiafclt was with the state Gaoor department. 
"Jehn Kiener is married and busy operating the ' Kiener Coal company (keener people boy Eener coal). 'Who's sick' Kataodc is onite > stranser to us. bnt he's stiU a Clevelander. BiB Taa Baay is one of the city's leadins golfers bnt that exer­cise has not impeded the 'growth of a finite size­able waistline. 
"Lookins back throng the fellows I have mentioned, I'm struck by the fact that they're all married except FatWr HalBaan and Jack, CaOins. I really think Clyde McCoy spoiled that gar for any future devotion. Jack's still playing the field when not lawyering, or stumping for local Democrats. He spends every other week-end in Ttoledo — elwms to be visiting 'Bugeye' Cea­nelly, but that wasn't 'Bugeye' that came up for the Navy game last October!" 
Letter from Walter lUnr KaBcB: 
"We have three '32ers over here in Bins^iam­tcn: Bin Hacaa. Besgie McNaauni and myself. We are all married. Hogan is the only one so far blessed with a youngster. 
"Mac spoke Saturday, Oct. 26, between the halves of a local hia^ school football game which was dedicated to Kaale Bertuf. Be has recently been working in Albany, N. Y., and is an N.Y-A district engineer. 
"Bill, whom I saw the other day for the first time since '32. is teadiing school at Bin^amton Central hi ^ adiooL 
"I Walt Kalkm (the skinny one) have been her, two years as manager for Standard Brands^ Inc. 
"IVom what yoa say, believe we three are unique in that I don't believe we've gained a pound amongst us. Mae, however, still weit ^ as much as Hasan and I pnt together. 
"Boomed two years vrith Jisi Biedy. '32. in Rochester, about five years ago, but he went to ttxta and never have heard from him dnee^ Hitiie comes to town oeeadonally bat mnst' ba we didn't use him ri^ t 'cause he scoots right bade to old man Haak Biasllj' without calling; 
"Geerge Bsiia. 'S2, and I took at least 10 years off both our lives when we spent the year of *38 together in Syracuse. He is now back in Brooklyn and occasionally calls long cBstanee for his diirts whidi I took to the three.hour laundry three years ago. 
Letter from Jiai Bssca. the Prize Bunte sales­
man: ' "Hope yoa survive' this surprise. Perhaps this letter will siva yoa a lift in the way of pnUiea­
tion for the next alamni issue [Secretary's note: •'Damtootinl"} 
"I travel a portion of Ohio and Indiana for the Company this stationery represents (Bunte). Live here in Lawxenceburjf, Ind., where I just finished celcbratine; my first wedding anniversary. Married a lovely, girl from here and, thus, we make our home here. 
"Truthfully, Jim, in the October 'Alumnus* issue, the picture therein led me to wonder if it were 'skinny' Igoe 'gone fat' but alas, now we are told it represented a photostatic copy of Fran Oelericit. Sure enjoy your issues, James, and hope some of us will keep supplying you with material a3 an incentive. 
"Call on Charlie Qaieley every five weeks in Richmond, Ind. Charlie operates a very progres­sive drug store in that city, Wilfred 'Butch' Uhl­ridi, a little before our time, gives me some nice candy orders in his drug store in Aurora. Ind. Jack Hamilton, *32. originally from Riverside, Conn., recently resigned his position with Frigid­aire in Dayton, Ohio, to accept a position with a subsidiary of Curtiss-Wright in, of all places, China. Jack's wife and two baby daughters have sailed to join Jack in said war-torn country. Paul Fortina, '36, of Grand Rapids, Mich., is em­ployed here with Seagram Distilleries. I see him at Mass regularly each Sunday that I'm home. During my last x-isit in Chicago, I dropped into Bernie Leahy's Raklios No. 7 eating emporium — business was humming for the lad at the time. Leahy was serving baking soda for dessert. 
"The Mrs. and I shall attend the Iowa game next week when I hope to see some of the '32ers. John BUsins, '29, and I listened to the Army game in his clothing establishment in Logan, Ohio, last week. Saw Bob Bmdcer in Madison, Ind., recently. He has a fine position with the Fesrl Packing Company in that city. Also, in Madison, I dropped in on Bill Hertz. Bill is doing 
•well in dividing his time between the restaurant and retail shoe business in that city. 
"Do you ever see Bill Kerrigan? I am told that 
he is on the Chicago police force. Norb Crowe is 
coaching at Roger Bacon High in nearby Cincin­
nati. His older brother, Clem, coaches Xavier 
University football, also in the Queen City." 
Two excellent collaborators and contributors covered the Army Game and Rally in the interest of the '32 News. These two staunch fellows are Ray Geiffer and Fran Oeleric^. 

Their letters follow: From Ray Gcicer: *1n the Commodore hotel before we went up to the Rally, I ran into a crowd of '32 alumni from Chicago led by Neil Hnrley, Jim Downs and Dick Roney. In addition to celebrating the coming Array game victory, they were giving their condolences to Jim Downs who-came out No. 20 in the recent government lottery. Jim is connected with Vitro-lite Products Co. and I suppose that, with the release of this information, their stock will go down about 10 points. 
"Of course, Neil Hatley is still with the Inde­pendent Pneumatic Tool Co. in Chicago, is their vice-president and hardly shows the wear and tear of several years of married life, plus so respon­sible a position. It must be the build-up they gave him at Notre Dame. Incidentally. Neil denies the rumor that he has a fourth son on the way and wants it known, once and for all. that his depen­dencies had nothing at all to do with the draft. 
"Dick Roney is now living in New York City for good, having come here the end of July, and is connected as eastern advertising manager of the Simmonson's Plant Production Directory, as­sociated with Conover. Mast Corporation. Dick is doing very well and is a welcome addition to the eastern alamni assodation. TTie only thing he would say for quotation purposes was "have Bar­ney Bernhardt of Sturgeon Bay, Wis., write him.* Seems as how Barney is kind of lax. 
"In tow with this trio was Jack Merlo, one of the Chicago city government officials, and our own Ed Keller, the Wall St. broker de luxe. Lticky? for us, Ed just happened to have some pictures in his pocket of his infant son, now six weeks old. After a little coaxing, Ed let us see them and we can truly say that he is a good pros­pect for Notre Dame football team in 195S. 
"Jim Wardell, originally of Mt. Vernon, N. Y., but now Philadelphia. Pa., still with the brandi of the American Can Co. in that town and doing quite well from the size of the tell-tale midsection. 
"A few of the rumors that drifted into the con­versation were that Ben Salvaty of Chicago la about to become a December father and that Jim IROC expects also to have the big white bird by his way. How's that for scooping the secretary 7 
"Also at the Rally were Terry Dillon, Fran Oeleridi, Joe Petritz, Dr. Red Jackson, Heifc Wlierlan. Gene Connelly, Jim Ward. Gconce Col­linan, Flo McCarthy and many others. Joe Petritz, of course, came on to give the team the proper amount of publicity and the 'thin man' still looks as he did the day he pulled out. diploma in hand, in 1932. 
"Fran Oelerich is now famous for his concoc­tion, the Japalaapa Waffle, w*hich can stand some publicity throughout the country from his class­mates. Terry Dillon arrived with his wife who kept Mrs. Fran Oelerich company during the Rally. 
"George Cnllinan has just come back from China, so we understand, although I didn't get a chance to talk to him. Gene Connelly is now vnth his dad in the Connelly Restaurant Y Bar Supply business. Hany Grattan is still selling jewelry tip New York state. Herb Wherlan teaches English in the Rahway High school. Flo McCarthy is still with a loan company. Jim Ward was at the Rally but he was so busy that I did not get a cliance to really talk with him. 
"At the game Saturday we ran into Ardi DoniH hne of Philadelphia on the 50-yard line. There, too, I saw also Tom HcKevitt, who is with the Justice Department in Washington, D. C, and has been there for four years. 
"In the Hotel Pennsylvania I met Rer. Frank Gartland, C.S.C., who was prefect of religion at Notre Dame for three years and is now located at the Holy Cross Seminary in Massachusetts, do­ing a fine bit of work and has each week a full-page article in the 'Sunday Visitor.' Frank was in the class of '32. leaving after the second year to take up the robes of the Holy Cross order. 

"Ed Mdiren came on from California and stayed for the game Saturday. He is here on a business trip for his beverage, 'SQuirt,* the finest regular and mixing drink on the market today. It has a grapefruit base and is called 'Squirt' ob­viously because once you see it, it stays in your eye and nothing else will take its place. 
"Heard that Tom Tarasovic is now practicing as a physician in Bridgeport. 
"Last week, coming home from the Carnegie Tech game, I stopped in Columbus, Ohio, and saw Jack Geddes, who was just celebrating the arrival of his infant son. Jack Geddes IH. • Jack said everything is fine except that he is quite angry to think that the youngster has more hair than he has. 
"Incidentally, we found out that Didc Roney is planning to be married this Christmas, Christmas Day. in fact. 
From Fran Oelerich: "I should be fronting for you, telling you who I saw in New York at the Army game, especially after that screen test you gave me two issues ago. Oh well, every knock is a boost, as they say, as Artik Ward says, in What Cheer, Iowa, and any­way several of the boys recognized my picture because at least I have some hair left, so I was thrilled no end to see the following fellows daring the three days that Teny Dillon and I (and oar 
wimmin) scuttled about the big burg carrying our cans of paint. 
"At the Big Rally, or Rat Race, first thing we did was to go into a private room reserved for our class, and there, leaning against the fountain, even as he did for so many Wednesday afternoons against the Pahus Boyale building, was Tom Hn­necan. Hard bj- Tc«n was Georce Cnllinan. fresh from a hitch in China. Next I saw two pairs of pants starting about seven inches above the ankles, and upon following the pants up to the faces 

- recognized those two young men of Manhattan, Bin Fitz and Willy Weir. 
"Slithered out of the private room and into the big ballroom and there was Florence Justin 'Mac' 'Flos^e* 'Mexican Hairless' McCarthy, riding a horse and scalping tickets for the next day's game at 65 cents ^iece. Saw a fellow sitting on three chairs and on examining same with one eye found it to be Jeny Flnneran. Fellow leading a blood-• hound around the hall turned out to be G-Man Tom BkKevitt. Dusted off several old ones with Gene Cminelly and later tried to get Gene and the Mrs. to stay out real late with us and help as use up some of our paint but Dot, the sissy, was afraid to leave the baby alone after three AM, 
"Jade Jordan, with rosy cheeks and nose to match. Jim Ward was delivering telegrams all over the place. Kay Geiger, also taking notes for the 'Alumnus,* saw me, and asked Connelly what business X was in, and Gene told him I had made plenty of the old mahogany selling my invention, the Jappa L^pa Waffle, during the past nine years. Hope Ray fourid out the truth before this issue goes to press, as the Jappa Lappa Waffle is owned and controlled by Johnny Perone. 
"Satardi^r after the game we went oat on the field, went wading on the 50-yard line and saw Hcrh Giorgio, his cigar and wife; Joe McCarthy who if yoa think I am heavy you should see him; Archie Dmehae who isn't afraid of any cap in New York; Jade 'Quicker-than-you-can-say' Robin­son; Ben Oakcs^ procurer for an air line; and Tcmy Conti. who, if he had been 20 pounds heavier when he was at sdiool, you'd have to look np the records now to'find out what position Stnhldreher and Catidee played. 

"That night as we started out with fresh cans of paint we are walking down Hfth avenae or whatever that wide street with the pretty girls in the windows is, and as we are passing the post of^ce we see a crowd of several thousand souls. There is a man talking to this crowd through a microphone, and he is telling them to vote for Father Devine for president. Hie man is Jim Warden. We look at the crowd, and three of them are kneding on the sidewalk, arms raised sky­ward, and seconding, thirding and fourthing the suggestions of Wardell. These three are Neil Hariey. Jim Downs and Didc Roney. 
*1 also saw Hariey later the same night, but Vm not telling where, as Neil was nice enough to deliver to my home a pneumatic drill and a wash­ing machine on the condition that I keep my trap shut. 
"Found New York to be a nice quiet little place, an ideal 90C for a couple to retire after they have worked hard and saved enough to give them an income of about 200 bucks a day." 
From a classmate of Joe Siemer. James R. Hindis, comes the report that Joe was elected state's attorney for Effingham County, HI., on the republican slate. He is still living in his home town Tentf^Mlis, and has a practice law in Effing­ham. 
William B. Ibrray was recently appointed as an itinerant jtersonnel worker for the Indiana NYA. Bill did eraduate work at the New York School of Sodal Work and at the University of Chicago. 
First lieut. Charles H. Brown. Elkhart, Ind., has been ordered to extended active duty with the 
The Notre Dame A I u m n u * 
United States Army. He will be stationed for tem­porary duty in Washington, D. C, and will then be transferred to Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind., in connection with the construction program. 
lO^ ^ Edmund HorUrty, 1027 Femdon Road, 
• ' * ^ Ann Arbor, BDcUffan. 
The "boiler kid," alias Fred B. Snite, Jr., in­augurated his fourth season at Miami Beach a few weeks back where horse races, football games and other winter sports will hold some of his atten­tion. At present, most of his attention is centered on his young daughter, Teresa Marie. 
IQ^ ^ Bf. RoWrt Cahill. Athletic Asiociation, 
• ' ^ ^ Notre Dmme, Indiana. 
From Bob Cabill: Not a lot to report this time, gentlemen, for none of you has roused himself to report anything to me. 
By way of apology, last month I told you how I was covered with confusion for not remembering Erv Kicp*5 name, and then if the printer doesn't go and louse up the spelling of his name! Honest Erv, I spelled it correctly. Let's see what they do to it this time. 
I'm awaiting a report from Bill Ayres, who I know was at the Army game, and any of you other gents who were there, for some news of the *34 boys in attendance at the Rally and game. My boss (Elmer to you) said he saw several, but his memory didn't run to names. So get busy, you Eastenehs. 
John T. Sexton, of the class of '33. postcards to the effect that Joe Degnan is in the Elks Hospital, Tucson, Arizona, and Joe would welcome letters from any of us, and visits from those in that vicinity. 
Gcorve Shields, the former S.A.G. executive and roommate of Reishman for, shall we say, several years, dropped in the other day. Has a brother a freshman here, whom he couldn't find and we had a nice visit. He was to be back for the game with Iowa, and we'll reunion with Reishman, who will be on from Charleston, W. Va., with his wife. George is single, worrying about his hair, although I thought he had as much (or as little) as he ever had. He travels quite a bit for his Brass Company out of Grand Rapids, and spent considerable time in Canada last year. His factory has a branch in Jamestown, N. Y., but I gleaned that there are other attractions there too. 
Got a clipping and picture of James H. Gleason from Geneva,. N. Y., which says that Jim won return to office as town of Lima supervisor over the Republican nominee by a plurality of 319. Gleason po'Ied 769 in the G.O.P. stronghold to his opponent's 450. Congrats, Jim. 
Here's a wedding invitation from the parents of Walt Kennedy's bride-to-be, the hitching to take place Nov. 28 in Stamford, Conn. Walt's with Macmillan Publishing Co., and doing right well. Incidentally, he and his bride are taking the special from South Bend to the So. Gal game as part of their wedding trip. 
According to Harry- Desnoyers, the Triple Cities Club in Binghamton, N. Y., had a meeting recent­ly, and representing *34 there were John Donnelly, Francis O'Brien, Stewart Osborn, and James Hogan. William Ayres and William Yeager were busy elsewhere that evening. (Happen to know that Ayres works nights, Harry, so I'll be his alibi for this absence.) Tlie fellows from Elmira, Harry says, wondered whether Jim O'Day's recent wedding kept him away. Francis Q'Brien and Stew Osborn compared notes on the progress of the recent family additions, namely Teresa Susan O'Brien and Stewart Patrick Osborn, Jr. Harry teaches electricity in North Senior High School, Binghamton, and his home address is 18 Grant St. 
This month's tip from the feed-box for Marvel­ous Man of '34: Mr. Thomas J. Stritch. M.A., assistant professor of English at the University. 
Tom has stayed with us since his graduation, after a swell job of writing for four years on the cam­pus publications, while a student. Well do we remember the written feud between Stritch and Degnan—The Week and the Funny Fellow. He's risen here, too. Took his MJV. in 1935, iand from rank of instructor has advanced to assistant pro­fessorship. He's single, lives on the campus, and is fast becoming an integral part of the campus life. Seems strange to us who Icnew him when, I sup­pose, to have ol' Tom the terror of the English students, if terror he is. From what the boys tell roe, Tom hasn't forgotten that he was once on the otl<er side of the desk, even if he couldn't see over it! 
IQ^ e FnnUyn C. Hodireiter, 34f I T99 Ave., St. Louis, Misaoori. 
From Hoch: 
We received a little correspondence since our last time to press and we'll dig right into it. First, the wedding announcements — and the con­gratulations of the class to all the newlyweds. 
Jack Gainer was married to Miss Frances Louise Rippley in Alton, III., on Oct. 12. John Nceaon married Miss Dolores Rose Marie Hayden in Ger­mantown. Pa., in the Immaculate Conception Church, also on Oct. 12. 
We have an announcement with- no date or locality (but we can anticipate that it was within the month) of the marriage of Jim Coneran. Jim was married to Miss Helen Connor in St. Thomas Aquinas Church sometime in October or Novem­ber, 1940. Pat Fisher was among the ushers. 
There is a new arrival in the family of Mr. and Mrs. Ed Simpson. Gail Louise, weighing in at 6% pounds, came along for the Simpsons on Oct. 14. To the proud parents we send along a lot of con­gratulations. 
Three letters crossed our desk this past month and for each one we are deeply grateful to the author. First, George Foss. He wrote from the United States Naval Mine Depot in Yorktown, Va. George was called up for active duty just five days after the '35 reunion. Our friend lays claim to the dubious honor of being the first num­ber of our class in service for this war. If there are any who claim that distinction over George, please communicate with us so we can make it known. 
Incidentally, George, Beanie Cavender is up at Fort Knox, Ky. We tried in vain to make a con­tact with Beanie who was supposed to be on the staff of de Paul Hospital (one of the newest and best in St. Louis). Finally, we spoke to the right person and got the dope that our M.D. had been called up during the summer and is attached to the medical corps at Fort Knox. Will you verify this. Beanie? 
To return to George, we'll quote from his letter: "My job here is special technical assistant to the ordnance and mining ofticers. We have quite a spot here on the banks of the York river and in the heart of one of the most historical parts of our country. We play golf over the battlefield of Yorktown. The post is about 12,000 acres in area and is a hunting and fishing paradise. There are only 10 naval officers here; all the work is done by civil service labor. The only military thing about the place is the marine garrison, although we are in uniform all the time. 
"So far I haven't found a Notre Dame man in this part of Virginia. Catholics are at a premium do\vn this way. Mary and I are living in 'Wniliams­burg and are one of a half dozen Catholic fami­lies in town. We live there because it is the only town between Richmond and Newport News with a church. 
"We are planning on going to the Navy game at Baltimore, i , . I would like to hear from any­one who is looking for a place to write. Maybe I can give them some inside dope on the Navy, Probably some of the fellows will be coming to WilUamsborK to visit the ratontaon. U tiMy do^ Hair and I will biqr a drink (and thafs aon*­thinff. as Tonll find U yoa ever COOM down tiiia way). Our hooae is cm Cazy Avenue, no mnabcr* bat jnst the last house on the street.** 
While we are on the topic; gans, there Waif will be a good nnmber of oar 500 or more who will be rolling off to camp one of these daars in the Sdective Service prosram.^ (We fed prettf lucky as we came oat 7837 in^the national lottery and 3360 in oar ward.) How ahoat drondns as a quick note now and then from joor eaiap, tdlinff us if there are any more NJ>. men there and. especisdly, if there are any frcmi ear dass. 
Now, Jahn Pwcerau John has taken ns to task for giving yoo the wronip steer on his irtiereaboats and his doings. He tells as that we twice wrote him up as selling typewriters in the Midwest. Hit insists upon denying this and says that likely "SMndy" Fecae or CUff Wd * mifi^ have aeitt in the card. We liave yoor card filed away, John, and Iiave dag it oat to confirm oor twice written report on your sales experience. Too may trace- it down, bat here it is verbatim. Postmark: Winne­bago, Minn., 4-10-40. **^nnndiago, Minn. Dear Frank: I'm out here in the midwest for a qieU — selling typewriters. I h<q^ to be at reunion. John Porcoro.** It is writtoi in black ink, and we nmst now admit, John, the tigxiatare does not look too much like the one <m yoar letter. May we hope this explains oar twiee-told error? 
Now the truth aboot John. About a year ago he passed the N<ew Jersey Bar and is now working in a Newark law office. The firm is Levy, Fenster and McGIoskey. 
John writes that Ed Kiihy has jcuned a competi­tor firm of Cox and Wallmrg of Newark. While traveling throat Lowdl, Mass., recently. John stopped off at the liooor store of Walt Hhfchaa and reports a "dianged man.** "Walt lias now become a man throogfa marriage" and his wife throws together a mijdtty fine meal, according to oxir writer. In fact, the whole scene made soeh an impression on Ptorcoro that he is seriously consid­ering the wedded state. 
The last letter comes &om Teai Procter. Tom is doing nicely up EUdiart way and is safe from the soldier's camp, at least for a while. He has been appointed by the governor as Goremnient Am»eal Agent for Area No. 2 (Elkhart County). Son Philip is reported as doing nicely, now wti^iinff all of 13 pounds, 4 ounces. 
Tom writes that Jee Poffcahcrter was reeratly married to Beb Le IGre's sister. Details on this are lacking as we await confirmation from Joe. 
Maarie Faiihcad is here in St. Louis attending St. .Louis Vniverrity Law School and hiding to finish up next Jtme. Manrie was down in-Wash­ington for some time, going to Georgetown' Ijiw School and working for the government. "Arky** loc-ks good and is knocking off the subjects. He is working in his spare hoars at a brewery. Now to return to our roster and thdr Jobs of last May. Bin Mesa is with Montgomery Ward as a traffic clerk in New York City. Clyde BatdwDer is derk­ing in the engineering department of the IHagara, Lockp'^rt rnd Ontario Power Co. in Batavia. N. T. Hcih Nadeaa is practicing law with the firm of Kent, Ashby and Ctenshawin Jacksonville. Fla. Haaricc Temhragel is a script writer for tTniver­sal Fictores Co., Inc., in Universal City, Qdif. We reported last winter on a picture of Manrie's we had seen in Chicago. 
cuff Wdih is teaching in Whippany, N. J., Jr. high school. Jahn Lang is holding down an cleo­trical engineering insition with the government in Wichita, Kan. Tern GaKaghcr works as an ac­countant with the American K.A.T. Corporation in New Tork'C^ty. Geny Deyle'is publidty'direc­tor for St. ICdiad's College in Winooaki Park, Vt. Jee Bacd is a salesman for the John HaTimrk Mutual.Life Insurance Co., w<«king oat of Am­sterdam, N. Y. 
Walt Layden is a United States probation officer 
for the eastern district of Oklahoma, worldng out of Muskogee, Okla. Jim Kanfmann was reported very ill by his mother last April. We hope that he has sufficiently recovered to he his old self again. Hay ve have a word from you. Jim? Joe Beacli 19 assistant credit collection manager with the Personal Finance Co. in New Orleans. Inrin Daris is athletic director in Lock Haven high school in Lock Haven, Fa. Walt H. Sheehan, we are sorry to say, was in Arroyo Sanitarium, Livermore, Calif., when ho returned our card last April. "Walt was a tuberculosis patient. \Ve hope that you are out and around now. Walt, and would sincerely appreciate a. word from you. 

Fran O'Connor is a junior engineer with the United States Bureau of Reclamation in Klamath Project of Oregon and California. Adam Drayer is studying for his Ph.D. at Fordham in New York City. Ray Bonar is backiield and baseball coach at the University of Cincinnati. Ray's father died lasf April 22 and we never acknowledged it in our column. May we extend the class' sympathy at this time. Ray? Faal Stanb is office manager for the Joslyn Manufocturing and Supply Co. in Fort Wayne. Tnd. 
Neil Farrell is television sales super^'isor with the R.CJU Manufacturing Co.. working out of New York City in New Jersey. Ray Keating is an accountant with R. J. St. Germain, independent oil operator, in Houston, Texas. Dick Hyde is cashier with Shell Oil Co., Inc., in Minneapolis. Blinn. Tom Flynn is in the insurance game for Fidelity and Casualty Co. of New York, working in Washington, D. C. Fred Fallman is interning in Milwaukee County General Hospital. 
Frank Sinnot is teaching English in Admiral Farragut Academy. Toms River, N. J. Jim Mc-Avcney is the public relations man with Bulkley and Horton. Inc. real estate company of Brook­lyn. Harzy Sbepard is manager of the Kent divi­sion of the General Ice Cream Corporation, divi­sion of national dairies, in Burlington, Vt. Tom Scpe is assistant manager of the Public Loan Cor­poration of Prox'idence, D. I. Jake Kunz is in the insurance business for himself in Oconomowoc. Wis. Sorry for the 'dubious remark' in our column of a year ago, Jake. 
- Art Brown is the on-fter and merchandiser of the Snow Queen Co., wholesale water softener company of Toledo, Ohio. John Maddock is claim adjuster for the Eagle, Globe and Royal Indem­nity Co, in White Plains, N. Y. »t J. Winkcl is a foreman in the anode casting department of the American Smelting and Refining Co, in Balti­more. Merle Settles is maintenance man for the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. in Anderson. Karl Sdincppert is a paint chemist for the Illinois Paint Works of Scars Roebuck and Co. in Chicago. 
Bill Bembrock is an architect for the Depart­ment of Public Works and Buildings for the State of niinois in Springfield. John Pogue is sell­ing for the National Cash Register in Chicago. Congratulatfons on the son. John. — he should be well into his second year now. Jack McDonnell is a salesman for Western Flour Mills, working out of Davenport, Iowa. Pat Quigley is a cost clerk for Fairmount Glass in Indianapolis. 
R. S. Roalean is the owner of the United Radio Service outfit in Peoria, III. Frank Leonard is selling bicycles for Arnold. Schiwinn and Co. in Chicago. Art Kranzfelder is a research chemist for Reilly Tar and Chemical Corporation in In­dianapolis. John Gross is a bank examiner for the Federal Deposit Insurance' Corp., working out of Storm Lake. Iowa. Bob Lee is unit manager for Commercial Credit Co. of New Haven. Conn. Tom Walsh, is assistant job manager for Associated Contractors, Inc., working out of Valhalla. N. Y. 
Ed Caldwdl is backfield coach at John Adams high school in Cleveland. Ed has been there since he graduated. John Breen has a new address at 902 Ookton St., Evanston. DI.Bus is doing his law work with Kinne, Scovel, Robson and Murphy in Chicago. Chariie SduU is an engineer for the Midland Electric Coal Corp. in Farmington, Dl. 
Tom Flynn is a claim representative for the Travelers Insurance Co. of Hartford. Tom b working in Chicago. 
That ends our roster, gang. If there are any 
omissions or corrections, please drop ns a line ao 
that we will be able to pass on the info to all 
the crowd. Since we have no material for the 
next issue on reserve, we need a lot of letters for 
a column in February. How about opening .npT 
In the event any of you are interested in what 
happened to the Scribe since he came to St. I<oais 

— here is the dope. Two si)eecbes are dialked vp: one. the keynote address at the Missouri State Delinquency Prevention Conference in Jefferson City; and second, at the regional meeting of the Missouri Association for Social Welfare in Rolla. We have been elected to the State and City Boards of Directors of the Missouri Welfare League and have been appointed to the Delinquency Committee of the Missouri Association for Social Welfare. On the side, we are doing a piece of research for the S t Louis Planning CbuncH and Youth Commission in the way of determining the extent of crime In St. Louis as against national figures. 
This will be all until Christmas and the New Year rolls around. So for that gala holiday — here is a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year to all the gang from Mr. and Mrs. Scribe! 
A note from Arnold B. Blorrison asked the Alumni Office to forward to his former roommate, Roy Bnlkiewicz, news of his marriage on Nov. 9, but Amie. didn't leave any details with us, Hope they are forthcoming. 
|Q^ # Joni Horan. 61 E. 95th St, Apt. 2. I TaO NP ^ Yoric City. 

From John Moran: 
Remember our Hve-year reunion next Hay 30 (Memorial Day). May 31 and June I! Remember that Friday being a holiday makes it easier for you to get away for the week-end! Remember that all your old hallmates, messmates and class­mates will be back for a rousing good time! Don't be left out of the fun — make your plans now to attend, and bring the gang in your town, city or village back with you for the best five-year get-together yet. 
So much for the Reunion. The column this month will be rather curtailed because your secre­tary was laid low by a cold and was still on his back when these epic lines should have been in Managing Editor Dooley's hands. So here's the news ift brief. 
First of all. the Army week-end. The Reunion and. Rslly in the Commodore Hotel on IViday night, and the Pennsylvania Bar on' Saturday night found many of the '36ers making the welldn ring. Tommy Campbell was in from Grand Rapids, and making the most of a few days vacation away from his accounting practice. At the table with Tom in the Commodore were your secretary, Al Carey, Jim Sherry, Cy Stroker, *37, and Tom Hickcy, '38. We don't recall all the gang at the rally, but we bumped into Joe Rattgan, the super-insurance salesman from New Jersey, who owes 'Us a letter. Joe Donnino, Joe Schmidt, Doc Harray, George Carey, Bill Walsh and others. 
Bob Cavanangh was reported as being over in Jersey on business for the Federal Deposit Insur­ance Corporation, but was unable to get to the Rally because he had to take a train back to Washington for a wedding next day. The wedding was not Bob's — he was merely filling in as best man. 
Wedding bells will ring — or possibly have al­ready rung by this time for Joe O'Neill vhom "we met after the game. Joe will walk up the middle aisle in Chicago, but we neglected to jot down the name of the lucky girl. 
Anyway, it was a grand week-end. and we are sorry that we haven't all the data on hand at this time to pass along to you. So if you out-of-towners who faithfully swore that they would write a few letters would get busy, we can still get a bit of news on some of the rarely heard from srads. 
Send your congratulations along to Ed Theis, who remembered this column with an announce­ment of his weddins on Oct. 19 to Uary Helen Tltzer, in the Log Chapel. Good luck to you and the bride, Ed. From the last "Alumnus" we see that other newlyweds include Art Kerns, John Pilarsld and George BfcNeiO whose wedding was previously mentioned here. Congratulations all I 
Dan Hanrahan saw a bit of New York state dorinff the recent election when he went traveling for the N. Y. Daily "News" presidential poll. He must have done all right for the poll was more accurate than most. 
We wonder how many of the Class of 1936 have joined the Army or Navy 7 Off-hand we have heard that Loa Hansman an^ Bill Ellis are in the Air Service, and that others of the boys signed up for th Ensigns' training course in the Naval Reser\'e. Ift us hear from any of you that have gone into the National Service. We would also like to know how many of you were called in the draft. So drop us a line — the statistics should he inter­esting. 
And that's that for this month. Before we sign off we would like to wish you all a Merry Christ­mas, and a truly prosperous New Year. Remember tliat the New Year is Our Fifth Year Out of Notre Dame — so make it a memorable one by planning now to be back for the five-year reunion next May 30, and 31 and June 1. 
America's only baseball newspaper, "Sporting News," named J. Sherboume Herrick as the out­standing baseball announcer in Class A baseball for 1940. The plaque befitting the honor will be presented to him in Albany, N. Y., where he is connected with Station WOKO in Albany. 
 Foley, 160S6 Scfaoenhoer Road, 


1937 Paal 
Detroit, Bfidiigan. 

From Paul Foley: Just when it looks as though we are wallowing around in a vacuum and will have to fill the col­umn with old 'phone numbers and recipes for Philadelphia scrapple, along comes an overdue letter from Salina, Kansas, from "Little Man" Al Sdiwartz, just reeking with news. It's just like the Marines landing when the hero is getting the heave-ho into the boiling pot. 
Like most correspondents Al writes long and lovingly of all the boys and then tucks in a few facts about himself at the end. when the pen is running dry and there's practically no writing paper left in the house. 
But we've ferreted out some passages typical of Walsh's "Little Man"^—so we'll swing the spot in his direction; . 
"Life was pretty much the usual thing 'til last April. Worked at the wholesale hardware game through drought, dust storms and wheatless har­vests. Then along about April 27, I woke up to how wonderfully life really could be when shared with somebody who strangely enough said, 'Al, you're all right with me!" [All Iddding aside, we like that.] 
'Tinky Carroll, Parker SnUivan and Boh Sies­fried came to Salina to see that the knot was properly tied and that enough rice was spread around to make things official.. 
"Went South on the wedding trip. In Houston looked up Jade Powers and found him working in Baytown for Humble Oil Co. Still the same fine fellow and doing very well. 
"In New Orleans. Father Hope was guide for the Schwartzs. He's teaching there now. 
"Came home by way of Kentucky, stopped off to see Parker again and are now settled down at 619 Johnstown." 
So that's the saga of the Schwartz—and in spite of the cheer and happiness bubbling through every 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
line we think it's no more than he deserves. With that we tuck away the volume of Polly­ana and recite the rest of the news relayed by AI. 
Down around Fort Wayne the laws of the sover­eign state of Indiana are getting a going over from our newest attorney Bemie Niezer—whom you prohably saw in a semi-legal pose in a recent issue of "Life." We say semi-legal because there is something pending about ruling blondes off the track at Fort Wajme. Niezer reports he's doing well at the subpoena-nnd-whereas business. 
Dick HcArdle has finally wised up and trundled off in double-harness, the event took place on Nov. 30 with the aiding and abetting of one Miss Dorothy Keenan of Fort Wayne—a most aiding and abetting town. 
From right here at home in Detroit Bob Sieg­fried has chosen a Mrs. and will be married before you read these lines. Bob*s been putting plenty of zing into the insurance business around Tulsa. 
As we already know of the merger of J. Paul Sheedy we will discuss only his expanded girth, the increasing amount of forehead both fore and aft and the fact that he is progressing in no mean fashion. It is reliably reported that he was in New York to weasel the boys through the Army game by a bright red hair. 
Parker Sullivan, sure, you must remember Pres —is putting plenty of blue into the Bluegrass of Kentucky while working for the Lexington Tele­phone Co, Schwartz says Parker has been "getting promotions right and left" — but then, you know how they worked tosether. It may be some sort of income tax racket for all we know. 
Again we hear tell of N.D.'s Ambassador ^vith­out portfolio, Vince Probst. And again we can report a further expansion of market for Old Judge beer. It has now reached, as I make it, the inaccessible dryness of Kansas where the natives of Salina light the railroad torches whenever Vince comes through. We insist that Vince write us soon and often; he should be our most prolific news source what with Old Judge and a natural talent for the back-slapping school of reporting. 
Bob Bodie is another of our "drummers" who finds Salina a soft touch. Along with his complete stock (which may be damask-covered buttons for all I know) he brings word of Tom Foy who is lurking in the New Mexico badlands waiting for a crack at the bar exams. Speaking of Badlands, we understand Marty Hosang is fending off the wolves in a metropolis referred to by those in the know as Palonia. Colo. — where the wolf takes a mess of fending. 
Swinging back to the pivotal states we find Tim Kins tapping his heels in Niles, Ohio, waiting for that political subdivision to allow him a chance at the bar exam. There were some sort of complications in the way but we presume Nov. 5 has straightened that all out. 
Ed Garvey is still doing Oak Park to a fine turn. Along the same line we hear that Al Smith is keeping the finances of the Ed Garvey Co. in form. 
Most of this dope is relayed through Bob Bodie who is himself traveling representative of Bodie-Hcover Petroleum Co. 
As we reported in our last screed Bill Foley is keeping Dodge fans out of the law's toils as an assistant to the prosecuting attorney. Further re­ports, however, state that Bill has found no time for romance but has devoted a lot of energy to 
K. of C. work — every man to his taste, we al­ways say. Still, it doesn't sound like a real Foley. 
Sdiwartz reports that he sees Hariy Marr occa­sionally and that Harry is doing a bang-up job of coaching under Al Gebcrt at Wichita University. Marty Peters and Don Elaer find that their respec­tive coaching jobs route them through Salina now and then. We hear nothing about them except that "they remain tig and burly." Ftom this we de­duce that thay are eating well, slamming the world around at will and in general rolling along. 
As might be expected now, we have a few mili­tary notes playng counterpoint to the traditumml Mendelssohn. Latest dope is that Pinky CamU and BiU Fallon have joined the 7th Begiment and exp2ct to te called to active service very shortly. It's a toss-up which one will wind up as top kick of the whole outfit. While waiting for them to trundle out the cannon Pinky is swinging along • with the Sinclair-Carroll Ink Co. As far as we know Fallon is just biting his nails and probably beating the brush for Metropolitan. 
From away down South, where they're still recruiting for a possible fracas at Gettysburg, we hear from Bob Grogan who has moved his opera­tions to Natchez, Miss., and given that area a new lease on life. For those looking: for a draft-avoider %vith a southern accent we recommend writing Grogan at Box 1724 Jackson, Miss. He reports it's a beautiful country. 
Again the winged couriers bring a letter from Ed Hoyt in New York, who promises to be one of our faithful correspondents, for which we mur­mur fervent thanks and hope the mood lasts. 
Getting into the Army week-end, which is always easier than getting out, Ed tells us he saw Tom Condon at the Penn bar after the game. Tom is said to have acquired several pounds here and" there and a daughter about whom he boasts con­stantly. Tom is working for the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. He reports that Jim Moulder is in the credit department of one of Buffalo's larger stores. 
Joe Moore was on hand for the Army game, scouting for the Jersey high school he coaches — which, incidentally, has been doing right well. 
Jerr>' Schaffer was around and about at the game sporting a new wife. He was married, ac­cording to Hoyt, about a month ago. He is con­nected with Grace Line Steamship Co. , . . not in the white linen coat division. 
Bill Mnlrennan, now working for an insurance company in Connecticut, trekked to New York for the Army game. Also among those present for the pre- and post-actvities were: Jack Broderidc, Jade Baker, George Lane and side-kick John Matbadk Our correspondent Hoyt couldn't quite elbow his way to Lane but he discovered that John, recently graduated from Harvard ILaw School, is engaged in Westchester real estate activities. 
Also seen on deck were Dick ScanneU and JaA Walsh, who is getting a mite pudgy since the Jones' Beach days. • 
Tucked away in - Hoyt's letter were a few bits pointing out graphically the state of the world al this stage of the game; "The N.D. Club held a preview of he Kockne picture before it opened on Broadway. We enjoyed the pictxu:« and the Club made a little dough on it. . . . Harry Heineman 15 working for the Sperry Gyroscope Co. making bombs(?)." 
Speaking of the state of the nation we were surprised to receive from some anonymous reader in Los Angeles a snide screed recommending, among other assinine things, that we "cut the President's nose down a notch." You will realize, of course, that this was a priori campaign litera­ture. We know it ^vas one of our gentle readers because the address was misspelled exactly as it is on this masthead. We are happy to report that we cast our usual militant Democratic vote and will let Los Angeles, the chemically pure, stew in its' own juices politically. 
So that's the dope. We think we have covered about 18 states, we know we have covered five sheets of copy paper, an hour and a half of type­wTiter pounding and a lot of memories of dawn patrols, caf meals and bull sessions. 
Possibly by the time the next deadline is gasp­ing its last we will be moving into our new house and can change that above address to 909 Haw­thorne Road, Grosse Pointe. Mich. . . . whert the Foleys and one of oor better mortgage eomxmniei are going halves on a house. 
Jaha F. McNeill cheerfully censures this offiee for printing an ihcomplete list of graduates from the Harvard Law school last June. Besides John himself, other winners of legal sheepskins in-; dude James B. Dwyer and James T. 0*D«aidL These in addition to Hanry Baldwin, Geerge Lane. Jelm Marfcacfc and PIdl Welsh, all previously men­tioned. 
 A. WfflUms, SIS Bast Lain 


1938 Hardi 
AT&, BslHmWT, HarylaxiA. 

From Hal Williaas: I'm writing this the Monday after the Navy-game. Around the typewriter several programs from the rally sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of New York, some hotel stationery and a few. matfih covers — all scribbled with notes. If I can decipher the scribbling and recall some of the conversations of the past two week-ends Pll be able to ^ve some of the news passed around con­cerning boys of the 1938 class. 
First the match covers: At the rally Friday night in the Commodore Hotel I saw — Tom Holligan, down from Harvard for the week-end on the Boston boat. Tom did not have much information to pass along about him­self other than he is still studying law. He also said that Jahn SdKmmer ranks ninth in the class and is one of the editors of the school's law jour­nal. From other sources I heard that Tom is doing pretty well himself. Hie Mnlhsm brothers, Jim and Art, were also down, and when first seen fViday night Jim was attempting to find Art, and Art was looking for his Cambridge landlord. (The three were together Saturday night ac the Penn bar.) I believe it was Jim who told me that Ourlie Osbem, also a I&rvard lawyer, lost his father recently. Jahn Manin, another Harvard man, was also observed over the week-end. 
CISHE BeynoUaw the same as ever and- late of 
' the Harvard Business School, reported that he is now working as a salesman in New York for the Union Bag and Paper Company. Clark said he was engaged but he might have been kidding. Joe Petritx, '32, the hard-working sports publicity man, was at the rally and told me that his right hand man, Charlie Dnke, was taking the CAA flying course at N.D. and was too busy to malce the New York trip. Stan Partyka stated that he is no longer a salesman for Tasty Bread but is now working for Anheuser Busch on Long Island. Tony Salewsid is a chief chemist at the Brooklyn Brass Goods Manufacturing Company. The com­pany is engaged in making shells for China. Tony says. PhU Beyer, growing taller and taller, is working for the Erie Lighting Company in his home town, Erie, P ^ Phil says that he and Char­lie Herrow went back to school for the Georgia Tedi game and had a fine time. Charlie is still 
worldng for the company that m::fces the Louis* ville slugger in the town of the same name. 
ChadE Daly, working for Swift & Company in New York as a clerk, said that he is engaged to Miss Margie Mclntyre, of Atlantic City. No date has been set far the wedding, says the happy and blushing Chuck. Chuck also passed the word along that Joe O'Brien is married. No details, however. Gene Vaslett, the same as ever, is still attend­ing New York University's night schcml and work­ing in market research for the National Aniline and Chemical of New York. With Gene, like a long-lost brother, was Us old roommate, Frank Pnsha, and his wife. Frank said that he was married last February and is still working for his father in the wholesale meit business ia Chicago. Bin Castclia says that he is studying law at Ford­ham. Someone also said that Bill worked as a hos-. pital orderly for several days during that New Jersey explosion. Bah Hacfcman, looking like a XKullion dollars, strolled around the room of the rally greeting friends. Bob said that he had just 
returned from the West Indies where he vacationed after working hard out in Cleveland. Saturday night Chic GalUgher -was telling this story: He said that Bob had to introduce himself to a ma­jority of old classmates because they did not recog­nize him as he is rapidly losing his hair. 
I found Hnch O'Donnell at the rall>' sitting at a table with people he did not know hut having the time of his life. Hugh is still studying medi­cine at Columbia in New York. Also at the rally were Tom ^eils. Gene Dolan. Bncky O'Connor (with the Retail Credit Company, I understand). Johnny Sdimitz (now looking for a Sob after working at the World's Fair), Bill Nolan. Pete McCarron. Jade Firth. Jerry Rothlinc. Jerrs" Clif­ford (seen by Bill Coar), and several others whom I can't recall at this minute. 
I also believe I saw Tom Qainlan (with a very handsome mustache) and Tom Hardart at a dis­tance during the Hally but I am not sure. 
Some other news picked up at the Rally — source 
forgotten — was: Gene Smith is studying medi­
cine at I>ong Island University Medical School. 
John Clifford is manager of the Grant store in 
BufTalo. Jack Mahoney is working for the govern­
ment in Akron. Ray Longstrcth is married and 
living in the hometown, Zanes\*ille, Ohio. Ed 
Grogan is working for a law firm.'l Wall Street-
After the game an informal and small reunion was held around the Notre Bame bench until the Yankee Stadium guards chased us out. The re­union was attended by John Kelly, still working for the Prudential Insurance company in Maine, Gene Vaslett. Frank Pmsha, Ed Bartnett (New York '"nmes" man still) Cliff Tallman. who is working for some company in Chester, Pa., that is making boilers for Navy destroyers. Chic Galla-Cfaer, Joe Corcorane's sister Mildred (she says Joe has joined the Officers' Naval Reserve and has taken his cruise. He will study at the Reserve School at Northwestern), and one or two others. 
After the game there was the usual reunion at the Penn bar. And what a reunion it was! I be­lieve every N.D. man in New York for the game passed through the place that night. A majority of the boys were from the '38 class. 
That evening I saw — Bernard Wassel, of Mt. Carmel, Pa., now working for the Metrop.olitan Life Insurance Company in that district. Bill Castleman. the old golfer from Louisville, who is still with his Southern charm, is now working in New York for the Aluminum Aircraft Company. Vic Mercado is at the University of Pennsylvania studying for a PhJ). in history and literature. 
•'Shorty" Norris who is working for the United Aircraft Company in Stratford, Conn, the Bond. brothers, Tom and Jack. Jack is working in the Engineering Department of the Cincinnati Gas and Electric Company, and Tom is working on the Franklin (Ohio) "Chronicle" and is the Franklin correspondent for three Cincinnati papers. Steve Dietrich (with his wife — their cute baby stayed home), the assistant advertising manager of the Trenton (N. J.) "Times." 
George Sdilandedccr was there with his bride, the former Miss Marion Sheehan. They were mar­ried October 2 in Erie. Pa., and George is now working in the engineering department of the du-Pont company in Wilmington, Dei. I also saw and had a delightful chat with Casimer ("Ivan") Ivan­ccvic, who has changed his last name to Vance. "Ivan" is now back in his hometown. Midland, Pa., and iS working for the Crucible Steel Com­pany in the invoice department. On July S his engagement to Miss Betty Suplina. of Brooklyn, was announced. Ibe marriage is to take place sometime in December. Walt Monacelli was there and reported that he is doing graduate work in chemistry at N.D. Hopes to get his Ph.D. this year. Walt is also doing some teaching at school. 
I had quite a visit with Tom Shells — still sell­ing classified advertising with the "Journal-Amer­ican" in New York — and he gave me the follow­ing information: AI Sherrod is studying medicine at St. Louis University. Tommy Atkinsm is in the advertising business in Boston. Fred Willia»­son» the old bandman. during October made a lot of stump speeches throughout Illinois for "Hie Young Republican Club. George Fitzpatridc is teaching school in Massachusetts and is on the list of the Officers* Naval Reserve. I heard it said that George was down for the game but I did not see him. I also had a nice talk \vith John Cleary. He is still working in Taunton, Mass. John ducked out before the festivities were over and I did not get a chance to say goodbye to him. Sitting next to John was Jim Sullivan who is still on Long Is­land as a hospital orderly. Jim's girl friend said she knew Johnny Clifford, worked under him, and found him a s^velI boss. Also seen around the Penn were Jim Blunt, who is studying medicine at Bos­ton University, and Ed Buckley. The notations after Buckley's name is World's Fair, but I have a vague remembrance in the back of my head that he came down from Boston with Jim. I'm probably wrong both wcys. 
Some of the information passed along that night 
— source forgotten — concerned: Ed Brannican, who is in his last year at the Albany Law School. Johnny 0*Connor has passed the Indiana bar ex­amination. Walt Duncan hit oil in Texas and cleaned up (now I remember, Castleman told me that). Gns Crisci is at the Temple Dental School in Philadelphia. John Troekosky is said to be at Briggs Memorial, Ithaca, N. Y., with t.b. Rex Weaver, of the *38 law class, passed the bar and is now practising in Dayton, Ohio. 
In going back over my notes and memories I realize that I also saw Ed Kavanangh in the Penn (Ed is working with Glenn L. Martin Com­pany outside of Baltimore) and he said that his roommate. Pete Pedersen, was also present in the room, llieir Baltimore address, incidentally, is 3301 Hamilton avenue. Also saw Chariie Callahan Friday night at the Rally and Saturday at the Penn. Charlie is the press agent for the New York Cardinals pro team and was trying to persuade any number of us to attend the game on Sunday afternoon. Charlie, I am glad to report, has not-changed a bit. In the bar of the Commodore Hotel I saw Don Hicke3*'s brother, Tom. and at the Pennsylvania I saw Don's mother and father. Don did not make the trip but Tom reports that he is riding high. During the Knute Rockne premiere in South Bend Don personally escorted several of the movie actresses around town in his new yellow open car. I also saw Tommy Fb*nn for a minute at the Penn. He came up for the game from Wash­ington ^vhere he was studying law at Georgetown. Tiger McGrath was there also, Hger Is still hit­ting the ball at Catholic University in his final year of law. Also at the Rally was Ed Uniadie, who is working as a hotel clerk in New York. Joe Messick was seen Saturday night, as was Boots BlcCarthy. 
I just found another sheet of paper to remind me that I also saw and spoke to George Keenaa (with a very lovely looking girl), John E. Flan­agan, Jade Doyle (he told me that he was still running a clothing store). Joe Judge, from Trey, 
N. Y. Danny Boyle and John Roacfa, from Musca­tine, Iowa. Sunday morning, just as I was leaving the hotel, I also saw Jack Lungren in a telephone booth. 
Among others not from our class were Johnny Moran, the old "Scholastic" editor, Harry Bald­win, Frank Reppenhagen (siting in the Penn coffee shop Sunday morning). Bill Dooley, manag­ing ed. of this sheet, Jim Waldron, Cy Stnriwr, Pat Gorman (now in Washington at Georgetown) surrounded by a bevy of St. Mary's girls. Dm Foskett (he said he's teaching school), Gc«rse Ross, Dan Sheedy, Bill Waters, Tom Ziegler, Jim McGoldrick, Joe O'Neil, BUI Donnelly, Gearte Vempsey, Pinky CarFoU, and Bill Toomey. 
Oh yes, someone also saw that Fat Carey's youngest brother was also at the Penn Saturday night. 
I made the trip to New York with Bill Coar, who is studying law at Georgetown and working ill the NYA offices in Washington. Bill and X stayed at the Penn and Bill did more than his share of gathering the above news. I hereby sive public thanks to Bill and the others who contrib­uted news for the column. 
I had to work the night of the Navy game but I did manage to attend the game and see some of the fellows. News on the Navy week-end is this: Seated in the row back of me at the Stadium was Walt ("Babe") Marshall, who is still coach­ing at Shamokin High School in the town of the same name. Pa. Babe said that his team has won four of its six games. A few seats from me was Bemie WasscL He was not cheNving tobacco and it probably is a good thing because when N.D, made its second touchdown he was pretty excited. After the game around the dressing room I saw Johnny Braddodc, who came over from Wash­inefton. Johnny is still doing accounting work in a real estate office. Hal Langton said that he is now a policeman on the Baltimore force. Also saw Steve Miller, Frank Marphy, Joe Boland, Joe Pctritz, and several others. I took Pat Gorman downtown after the game and he told me that he also saw Bill Conr, Tiger McGrath and Tom Flynn at the game. I missed them. Sunday morning at the 12:15 Mass at the Cathedral I saw Joe Mc-Deimott, now attending University of Baltimore, George Rosa down from New York for the game, Rnsaell Kelly, ex. '37. now working in Baltimore, John Conley, the Baltimore "Evening Sun" writer, Pat Crorman, and Pat O'Brien, of the Hollywood O'Briens. 
Channcey Rooney called me up before the game and said that he intended to stop over long enough for the game and was then heading west on his vacation. He planned to see the Iowa game, diaun­cey is now working for the duPont Rayon Com­pany in Waynesboro, Va. 
And, so help me. that covers my notes and my news of the Army and Navy games. I probably have forgotten some news and some names. To those whose names were omitted, my apologies. 
Oh yes, two other remarks about the New York week-end. First topic of conx'ersation when meet­ing an old classmate was, "And what is your draft order number," Several of the boys were right down on the first lists but a majority were way back with me — 7756. 
Aside from the two games I also managed to pick up the following information since the last issue: 
In the "Religious Bulletin" of October 29 I noted that prayers wejre requested for the mother of Bill Horan, who died. While watching the "Knute Rockne—^All American" picture I spied Joe Race sitting on the N.D. bench for the scenes of the first Army-Notre Dame game. Joe is quite an actor. I looked up Ross Kelly, an old N.D. hoy» recently. He is now working here as assistant manager for the Regal Laundry Company. At a cocktail party several weelcs ago, Frank Mnrphy, '36, told me that he is working for the Household Finance Company here. In the October 20 issue of the South Bend "Tribune" I saw a picture of Jolin Scott. "John,' says the caption under the picture, "is president of the SL Joseph county Christian Endeavor union and assistant superin­tendent of the Grace Evangelical church school." In a recent letter John Cleary mentioned that Phil Siields is working in Bay City, Mich., as the manager of a store for the General Tire Com­pany. Tom Hntdiinion sent me a clipping from an Indianapolis paper stating that Miss Rita Con­nor, of Indianapolis, will be married to RicfaaM Jaacph Hcnncsi^ Nov. 21 in the Log Chapel. And in a recent issue of the "Scholastic" I noticed this ad, "Don's (Hickey) Hesta—The Mosta of the Besta at Don's Fiesta." 
Again I look for the fellows to write whose names have not appeared in the column recently. Write, boys, write; ytxa classmates are eager for 

ne^vs. Let's hope that the Chicago boys -will come through with news for next month's column on the Iowa and Northwestern games. 
That's all. 

Redman DucK*n is in charge of the Alamosa, Colo^ field office o£ the Bureau of Old-Age Insur­aitcc of the Social Security Board. Kedman mar* ried a South Bend girl late in the summer. 
Due recognition was given the gridiron feats of Andy PapUs in the sports she^t of the Chicago "Tribune'* recently. Tracing tho record he has made as head coach, first of Crystal Lake, 111.. High School, and now of Proviso High school, Maywood, III., the "Trib" said many nice things about him. The story parallels the high school, Notre Z^me and coaching careers of Puplis and Andy Pilney, head man at Chicago's Weber High. 
1939 Vincent DeCoorsey, 205 Brush Creek, Kansas City. BQssonri. 
From Vince DcConrsey: 
Now that a fellow alumnus has been elected President for the third term, the draft numbers 
.- have been drawn, and the war has narrowed down to feature stories on how one Brave British Bomber sank four submarines, two cruisers of the Dcutschland class, and the entire right wing of the Royal Library at Copenhagen with one bomb, life can settle down to almost normal again. Last month's plea to please send in draft numbers brought a few answers, but none of them even close. Ffersonally we're number 7603 and next to last in our district, have one dependent and am working on a classy case of yellow jaundice, or worse if I can find a book giving details on what will and what will not exempt. 
Draft brings back memories of the day after the .great number game when, awakening with a slight headache, eagerly grabbed a paper to see where we were, and the Kansas City "Star" in­formed us in Column One, Paragraph Five. Lines 1 to 15 that "Around one o'clock, when number 
1.807 (I think) was drawn, a merry voice from the gallery shouted "Bingo." The lucky drawee was Pat Gorman, a student at Georgetown who, however, will have little to fear for at least a year or whenever his student exemption expires." And so on in gory detail. But old Pat came through all right. A letter from him, autographed of course, giving details on how it feels, statements, etc. (including address) would be appreciated. 
Among other things, last month we asked for a verification of a rumor we had heard about Julie Kristan. And from 129 Williams St., Wallingford, Conn., came a prompt reply. *'Ju5t to let you know that certain rumors you have heard about me are correct. I am married, date of ceremony August 
31. 1940. I'm still preparing to make an ungraced appearance into the cold, practical world as a teacher. I'm a second-year graduate student in the Department of Education at Yale, a far cry from those rosy, idealistic dreams of an English major." That ought to settle pretty definitely the alarm sounded by Bill Donnelly, whose letter comes later. 
Just too late for the last Issue came Carl Fricke's letter from Altadena, Calif., but it was heartily welcomed juts the same. Carl is still with the same old outfit and working pretty hard. The big religious ceremony in Los Angeles (in mid-October) was attended by Father Hugh O'Donnell, and Carl says that he heard him at the Am­bassador and then at a Notre Dame luncheon Monday at the Biltmore. Six very lucky St. Mary's girls made the trip out to the celebration and the luckiest was escorted about the city by Carl. From the description of the places visited, sights seen, etc, it must have been an eventful week-end. 
Frank Parks, demon reader of Distributive Jus­tice papers that he was, and at present a just as avid student at Wisconsin's largest university law school, wrote in to say that • he actually had been present at the Georgia Tech game. We are very sorry that we missed him, but hope for better hick next time. Frank sent along some news of the Wis­consin lads — noting that Dick Bercen, contnuy to our previous announcement, is actually in Washington, toiling in the Department of Labor, or whatever one does in the Department of Ijabor. Paul Rice and his wife were seen by Parks one week-end. Paul, Parks is certain, is traveling for Inland Steel. 
Jack Devcns. the Minneapolis flash, is still at large, but expecting Cupid's lariat any day. Solly Martin, Franl^s old roommate, is still with the Fond du Lac "Commonwealth-Reporter." Watt O'Meant is still at Wisconsin U. Loa Ottmer is with the Gehl Mfg. Co., operating out of West Bend, Wis., as a field representative, married, and doing well. 
Surprise of the month came in an air-mail letter from Burbank. Calif., early in November. Bok Hnether, the engineering marvel, wanted some in­formation on the art of washing dishes (I would never have believed it possible, but would be willing to wager a blocked Reichmark or so that in a fair ccntest, under Dutch Cleanser, I can whip any married-man of '39 at polishing glasses). Bob is in need of training, seeing as how he is coming to Kansas City around Christmas time to take unto himself a wife, a Miss Eleanor de Clercq of this city, whom unfortunately enough. I have not had the honor of meeting as yet. But Tora Reardon and I are looking forward to a rather big time at the event. Bob is, of course, still with Lockheed. 
During the summer. Bob spent a short vacation in Kansas City and in Sharon, Pa., and on the way a stop at Rocky Ford, Colo., showed that Joe Dunn was still holding forth in as good sha];>e as ever. 
The Universitj' of Chicago has quite a few of the boys corralled for the term, and a few of them we reported in attendance last month have been confirmed. Frank O'Laughlin, Charlie Nelson and Boy Heywood — all of whom I presume can be reached at Bob's address. International House, University of Chicago. Dick McKay and Larry Casey are still at Chicago, in the medical school; Maurice Leahy is in the graduate school of his­tory; Bill Prendergast is teaching at Hundelein and working on his doctorate at the University of Chicago. Louis McKean has been professed in the Congregation of Holy Cross and is now at Moreau Seminary. 
Among other news emanating out of Chicago is this: John Broderick, whom we had heard was in Texas, is actually back in Allentown, Pa., or what is left of Allentown after the munition explosions. OUie Helland has been accepted in the air corps. 
Bill Donnelly, faithful reporter of the "Week," covered in fine style the entire scope of the week­end at New York's revival of the N.D.-Army "never count the underdog out" series. Bill pro­vided quite a bit of information, if four single spaced typed pages can be called a little bit. But as Bill says: 
"To get to news, roommate Andrew Wilson has been working in the Buffalo 'Evening News' since last August. According to a card I got from him yesterday one of his most recent assignments was. of all things, the Lutheran Reformation Day services. 
"This past week-end, of course, was Notre Dame's big time in New York City, and there were plenty of familiar faces floating around familiar places. There was quite a group down for the rally and game from the Harvard Busi­ness School — Ed Carroll, Bob Dicckelman and John Starkie. Bemie SuUivan was down from Boston where he is working as a claim adjuster with the Liberty Mutual Insurance Company. Sat­urday night, incidentally, I saw him and Dan Kelly waiting in line with their dates to get into Hotel Penn's Cafe Rouge and Glenn Miller. Dan n workixur for the Bank of Xanhattaii Cou Dan . Hcildli m a down bom either Bridseport or Bo** ton; be*worked in the aeeoontinff (fciwrfMiil of G^eral Electric in Bridgeport,, bnt he nakes m»A freqpent trips ov^ the 200 miles hack to Bosbtt that I dost't know whidi he calls his home. He and JaUe ToMrite , now workins: for Ebeifaazd and . Faber, had bis plana nnderfoot for attenfins a dance somewhere in Brooklyn on Saturday ai^st. 3mA McGaiaesa was down from WaterboxT, Conn.. where he is doing civil engineerins work. 
"Among the others I saw at the rally (and a gay time it was) were Jack McAaBffe, down foxn his place of occupation in Ogdensbms; N. Y., Gceive O'Ncil, working for Pepn-Cula, Jalnaiy Eiuis. in the accounting department of Chevrolet, Gcerge Dempiey* up from Wilmington. Haydm Streater, Jehii TeMwy, Ji a ToraMy, Gcuve IMH* van* Ed Tracy, Fred HeMikaaip. TMR Maber, Lake LaCrrix and Lany Doyle. Jade McAiJWe, says his old roommate, T«a Walker, is anions the early call numbers in the draft in Syraenae and is rerigned to the army life. Tom Maher was with Union Garixm and Csrbide until they wanted to send him to the Dutch East Indies. He didn't want to leave all his Notre Dame pals behind, and if yon don't believe that one, "Cherchez la femme" (whidi is the story we got from Jee ITaiilailiM some time ago). Tom is worldns with the Bedile* hem Steel Company right now and gets back to New York as often as possible. Lnke LaCrcdx couldn't resist that old managerial call and be was out there on the sidelines Saturday afternoon doling out helmets. He goes to. Fordham Law School and works at a Law oSice in between times. I>arry Df^le, of all people. Is an undertaker. 
"^ e game Itself, except for Jaxwi^a brilliant run, was exceedingly dnll and disappointing. Notre Dame was in a mediocre frame of mind as a r ^ suit of the press notices they had read, and Am y was fighting mad because they eovid read. too. Saturday ni^ t was a repetition of the fmeta of Friday night except for Bdb Ktiiiwewi, a gen­tleman of leisure, who was sporting a very beauti­ful brunette oh his arm, and fVank Blri^t; oat eminent valedictorian, and l^ta BdUm who, with a good-looking young lady, was among tiioae dam­qring to get in the Cafe Rouge (the Notre Dame football team was eating supper there and they had tp get out before customers could get in). 
"Letters: — I have heard from Diae Fshisal who is up at Albany Law School with Bob OrtakK. I have heard frtun I^ed IH|^ , who discloses the startling news that Jalie Kristan is married (See above]. Yesterday I heard from Walt Cettea; be is located in Chicago where he is sales representa^ tive of the IVIer Hxture Corporation of Nile^ Midi. He reports that on recent trips he has seen Aagie Bcnedetti, now in the eonfectionexy bunness in Morrison, 111.; Jolu Dans, now a big creamery man in Qoincy, HL ; and Jokn Wessela, a leeent addition to the button industry In Muscatine, Iowa. In Chicago he recently saw Jee McDeiaieU, who, probably throoi^ his influence as a former presi­dent of the Notre Dame sophomore class, sot him. a front row seat at a political rally. 
"Election day having passed and this letter not finished yet, and a little free time over the week­end, so here goes. I got my Master of Arts degree at Columbia University last June in the Teadiins of English and right now I'm teaching English and Latin In the Rhodes Preparatory School, a private school a block off Times Sq:uare in New-York City." 
And if there could be about one letter a month . of that length and crammed as full of. news as was that of Bill's this would be an ever so much more pleasant iob. Just by the way, my brother BlU made the student trip and reported seeing KQ and a few others while oat makins the town. From his report the trip this year was not the decorous affair it has been in the past. 
Just today a nice letter from BelHe Sfartia vp in Fond da Lac He confirms Pai^a letter and adds that he and his brother and Parks made tta trip to Yellowstone this summer, and that he in­tends to make the Northwestern same this months RoUie was Loo Ottiner*s hest man at his marriage at Notre Dame this past summer. 
I£ every month would draw down the number of letters and the amount of information as did this one, it would be a mar\'enous world. Next month I wonder if it would he too much to ask Dick Anton, Ed Farrell, Fred Digfay, Walt John­son and Paul McArdle to drop in a line or t^vo. With myself things are pretty quiet, just finished taking an exam for the position of customer's man in a brokerage house (same one) and hope that it turns out all right. Until next time then, let's hear from yon. 
Just too late for inclusion in the first draft of the column came a vcr>' fine letter from Dave Hcskill, with more details on that expedition into Brooklyn that Bill Donnelly mentioned. Said Dave: 
"When I started this I could think of all sorts of things to write, but they will probably dissolve before I get around to them. First. I might ss well get myself out of the way. I'm still poring over ledgers for G.E. here in Bridgeport (address, by the vray. Long Hill Acres, R.F.D. 4. Bridgeport), and business is booming. I'm living in a glorified Sorin Hall with seven other fellows. We have a big old house about five miles out of the city, our own housekeeper, our own rules, and our own par­ties, and no prefects. I still manage to get home week-ends fairly often [See Donnelly] and be­tu^een Boston, Bridgeport and an occasional trip to New York, may have a little dcpe of interest. 
"A couple of weeks ago who should turn up in Boston but John Toomey and Barney Sullivan. John left Binghamton and the 'Valley of Oppor­tunity' to take care of part of Massachusetts and New Hampshire for I.B.M. Barney left Wichita's oil fields (but hasn't forgotten them) to settle claims for Liberty Mutual. 

"I had two weeks of vacation not long ago, fin­ishing up with the Army game, but the highlight of it all was the wedding on Oct. 26 of Joseph Peter Sullivan, Jr., and Margaret McGuane. I had to represent the class of *39, for Sully's old room­mate. Fred Stnbbins, is in the Navy, and his name­sake. Little Joe Sullivan, from New Bedford, had to be at work at five in the morning. 
"Spent the Army week-end with Julie Tonsmeire in Brooklyn. He's now effjciency man in the lead factory for Eberhard Faber. Saw innumerable fellows at the Rally and Game, including: Paul Morrison, who is playing for Jersey City and was locking forward to playing against Harry Steven­son and Newark the following day. Jack Devins, who is with duPont. Chick Gallagher and Charlie Callahan. Portland Jchnny KcUy, still working in Waltham. BiA Fifzsimmons and Bill Donnelly. Qiariie Carroll and John Starkie, the Harvard boys. Hayden Streator and Paul Donovan. Bill Mc-Vay, Charlie Norton and Bill Whelehan. Stoop Ortale» who looks no more pale and thin than ever. Joe HcKcon and Bncky O'Connor. Dan Kelly and so on. 
•*Baraey SnUiTan and I had quite a time trying to follow Tom Scfamid and John Toomey around Manhattan while Schmid found a parking lot. Only the Kansas and Connecticut license plates saved many a whistle, for we never saw a red light. The top story of "the week-end was the ex-classmate Sullivan ran into who. without warning, came out with, "This may bore you, hut. you know, I have twins" fWonder if that could be Denny Dineen?] 
"Saturday night after the' game and after a delicious fried chicken dinner at Tonsmeire's we spent the evening in, of all places, Brookl>-n. AVe had fun, with native Georee Mulligan—all worn out from a vigorous week of promoting the Rally lor the Met Club; little Luke McGinnis with his very charming sister: the newlyweds, Mr, and Mrs. J. P. Sallivan, Jr. Julie represented Notre Dame nobly, for the second, successive year he was accompanied hy Al Sdimitz's dbnsins, Irma Bnrde. (Al, iiicidentally, is now in . Kansas^ City, Irma told us) {Ed note: then why does'n't he call me UP?] . .' . 
"Ed Disser forwarded from Fort-.Wayne a copy of the Lincoln National Life .Insurance annual report with page 9 marked. What was.there but a picture of our Ed with the heading,' 'Our bond "experts" at work.' Ed is doing "well ^as usual and reports that his sisters get a big-kick-out of tak­ing care of Tom King's baby daughter- on occa­sion. He reports that Bucky Ryan "was married two weeks ago at the Log Chap'el;". with Fat O'Lattghlin as best man. The local Cleveland dele­gation reports that Bucky picked a queen,"-.too I 
"Haven't heard from Merkle for nearly^ a year, since he went to work for the Pacific Importing Company, with the motto, *We Deliver the-"Goods.' I'm about ready to write Greg Rice off the list, if he doesn't come through with a letter pretty soon, and Pat Bannon must ha dead. Wrote Al Schutx months ago at Dayton, but the letter came back. I'd like to hear from Johnny McMahon. Joe Bizd and Bill O'Laughlin, too. 
And that winds up all the correspondence, rumor, etc., for the month. May next time be as happy! 
Bill Piedmont, Catholic Youth Organization di­rector in the Sault Ste. Marie area of HtchiKan» spoke on Knate Rockne at memorial services for the great coach at the Sault High School durine the recent national Rockne Week. 
Al Rcspondek writes that, since leaving N.D.. he spent one year as instructor in the University of Texas electrical engineering department. At present, he is chief engineer on the staff of Radio Station KPAB, Laredo, Texas. He re­ports that Bob Benmvides is practicing law in Laredo. 
Carl Sabo is hard at work at O'Brien Varnish, South Bend. 
Dick Garab landed a connection with the American Tobacco Co. out of Grand Rapids. Mich.. through the Placement Bureau. Dick was former^ ly wt h Holycross & Nye, Victor distributor to the Bend. 
104 A Robert G. Sanford. 3934 N. BUnrlaai 
' ' ^ W Ave., Milwankee, Wisconsin. 
From Bob Sanford: 
Election Day and I'm starting to write my awe-inspiring manuscript already. I'm all prepared to throw my huge vocabulary of approximately 15 words around with great redundancy. Firom my vantage point it looks as if that is about all there ­will be in the news of the class of *40 this month. ' Of course. I haven't lost faith in you fellows as yet, but it is becoming questionable as to just how interested you are in your class. If we keep going at this rate I'm going to save all news I get till the issue just before Universal Notre Dame Night and see if it will fill a column at that time. 

All kidding aside, fellows, let's have some news and plenty of it for the first issue of the; New Year. Thinking it over — if only one fellow in each hundred of the graduating class wrote cadi month, it would result in six letters a month for me. about three times more than the 'monthly average for the year. 
Just received a letter from Jade DeMsss, an engineer, who now mails all his corresi>ondenoe from the Massachusetts .Institute of Teclmology. He would also like to receive some mail; and his address is: 418B Graduate House, Blass. Inst, of Tech., Cambridge. Mass. He writes: "My* folks sent the October. "Alumnus" to me up here; ana needless to say. I was glad to get it and check up on the fellows. 
*'Joe Kraas, (Ch.E.). Don Dnffey, Jaluiny Vcr­

. htnrtMt and I are here at Tech. I'm working for an ILS. in MetalluTsy, having changed from Chem. Eng. in which I got my B.S. We all are doing well here and like the place, and we are al! living in the Grad. House. However, I know that I can speak collectively when I say that our hearts still stick to N.D. and always will. We all saw '^Cnute Boekne—All American** the first day it was sbovring in Boston. It certainly brought back memories, and made us all feel a little lonesome. 
"Incidentally, we're all 'hashing* for our meals here in the Grad. House dining room. I haven't had a chance to look up the fellows livinff in and around Boston as yet, nor have I been able to get in tondi with the N.D. men at Harvard. However, Didc Witte (E.E.) has joined the Coast Guard and. when last heard from, was in Baltimore, Md. ' Walt Bante, ex. *40, and heavyweight champ that year, is playing tackle for Fenn. Ted Williams, ex. *40, is a backfield star for Boston College. I hope these few items will help." 
Thanks very much. Jack, and they sure did help m great deal, these seem to be pretty slim months and I really appreciate a letter like yours. The engineers have been doing very well in their re­porting, but what is wrong with the A.B. boys? Just because I wasn^t one of you is no reason to shy away. Ever since I published a list of the 

, Pre-Meds they seem to have been satisfied. Let's hear what you boys think of the other schools and of your different activities. 
Wayne Wahl sent me a card which should have 

• •'been published in last issue, hut was just a little 
• -late. His card comes from the IBM Homestead :and now quoting from the card: "Lodging, din­ging and recreation headquarters for guests of the Endicott Plant of Internationa] Business Machines Corporation." Wayne himself writes: "It appears the old gang have really scattered. Here at a com­pany school I met Boh Scfaraeder, '39 grad. which swells the recent N.D. graduates with I.BJf. to four. I'm really going to miss those football Sat­urdays but hope to see one of the games in the East." Hope you made it. AVayne, because they both mounded like great games. Cards are a great ­encouragement, and I wish more of you would follow Wayne's example and encourage me. 
Hiere is always one report that I can always depend upon, and always be sure that it will he good and very complete. That, of course, is the monthly notice from Dave Sprafke, secretair of the en^neers. Dave does sudi a good job that I always have to perk up after reading one of his letters and try to improve myself. Dave reports the following: "In shori. this report might be considered the gleanings of the Army game week­

: end which was enjoyed hy a goodly number of 2940 graduates. Mainly, my sources of informa­tion were Ed Hart (£.£.) and the always depend­able Ed Pratt {A.E.). 
"Up until the first of November. Ed Hart had been a member of the student training course at the Colonial Radio Corporation in Buffalo, N. Y. However, his Civil Service rating, as a result of an examination m South Bend last spring, kept rising. Ed is now working throughout the East as a signal corps inspector for the government. Ed is working out of Brooklyn, his home town, and, for his first assignment, drew the Connecticut Telephone and Electric Co., here in Meriden. The work required a week, after which he moved to Rochester, thence to somewhere in New Jersey and finally to Boston. 

**WUle in Buffalo, Ed roomed at the downtown YJLGAu with Walt Sullivan, former Notre Dame man, who left school in his sophomore year. Also, at the same Y, lived Rass King (M.E.) who is working for the Worthington Pump Corporation. Rnss* training course is scheduled for two years. 
"Bin Cleary (Ch.G.) could find no position in chemical research as enticing as one with the Brewster Aviation Corp. in Long Island City, Am­bttious Bill is studying niehts at N.Y.U. to get 
an aeronautical degree. Jim Kdly (H.E!.) has left Republic Steel in Ohio to accept an engineering position in Baltimore, Md. JiAn Ebe (E.E.) was seen at the Army game, playing hookey from Detroit. Bob CkamWrUin and Jolin DnimKO«]d were also there and having a mighty good time. Don Fo«kett (A.B.) is a supervisor and physical instructor in a boys* home in Yonkers, N. Y." That's really great, Dave, you have done a very commendable job of scooting and reporting, and I beg you to keep it up. We need news like that every month and every reader is depending on you for engineering, and other, news after your great start. 
The sad outlook forecast at the beginning seems to have changed now. and I would like to print a leport from Flint, Mich. Bob Sweeny, a com­merce man, writes the following letter on Chicago 
Y.M.C.A. stationery and mails it in a Notre Dame official envelope. Bob writes: "Should have written sooner, but they have been kind of rushing me. After leaving NJ). this June I started with the Household Knance Corp. in Chicago and have re­cently been transferred to the Flint office (my oi* home town). Along with my work I am learning how to fly at the local airport in the Civilians Pilot Training Course sponsored by the govern­ment. 
"My roommate last year, Jim Daney, is taking law at the University of Michigan. Chock Pieters of Mishawaka is with the National Discount Co. in Pontine, Mich., and will be married next week." This was mailed Nov. 7, so by this time we have another married man added to the married group of the class of '40. Congratulations, Chuck! Hope you're very happy. Bob Sweeny also gives his ad­dress and asks to he"r from some of you. He lives at 408 E. First St, Flint Mich. Well done. Bob. Hope to hear from you again soon. 
Received a card from Washington with a very large circle around one of the buildings. It was an answer to one of my fiuestions in the last issue. Pat Gorman explains his absence from South Bend: "Just received the *AIumnus.* No doubt by this time you know that T am at Georgetown I*aw School. The circle marks my new home and the rrrow the room. looking from one end of Consti­tution Ave. to the other. I also see Al Swanser every night at school. My address is 100 'B' St, N.E., Washington, D. C." If any of you fellows want to see where Pat is living, drop him a card and he will be only too happy to oblige, or come to Milwaukee and take a look at my card. 
Dan Hoahek at least kept himself supplied with food, although the cash is a little slow in coming; the other evening while bowling he won a turkey for bowling high game, or was it low? Better ask Dan; he's really the one to question. After spend-in;; this coming week-end in South Bend I will have more news, but in case I don't have much time to finish up the copy I want to wish all of you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. 
Just before leaving I saw Jim Casper downtown. He claims to be working for his father in the S. J. Casper Co., breaking all the glassware he can get his hands on. He received a letter from his room­mate. Ed FaQiam, who is in the great army — of • unemployed. At present he is trying to get a job with Disney to show how animated cartoons should be made. Why don't you check up on some of the other California boys, and write me, Ed? 
On arriving in S.B. whom should I run into but John Gavan. He works in Chicago, has residence at the Windemere Hotel, but seems to make his headquarters in South Bend. While eating in the C&t Friday evening I met the lawyers once again 
— Chide Dabriski, Johnny Barry, George Blilford and a few others were walking around with trays looldng for a place to eat. Went to the Cotillion Friday night and saw Walt Waehhold, Bill HcVay, and so many others, but just can't seem to remem­ber them now. After the dance I saw Jerry Dono­van and John Gavan in the Oliver lobby. Jerry's wrist is O.K. agun and he promises to write soon. ­The three hoys who once lived together, Jerry, John, and Jim Donogliae have parted^, Jerry is on the South Side, John on the North, .and ^jLn cither on the West or in the middle. John-.Dean* ^Jahiuiy Webster. Neal Gleason. Ted Brwh'*''and Dick O'Melia were wandering around ijae' lobby, but didn't have much to say. Bfize 'Mvnia was vp from Oklahoma, and says that the'only reason he was able to make it was because of Roosevelt and the 40-hour week. Art Lancaster was''running around with Doc Corran and explained that.he was work­ing for the N.Y. & Porto Rico 'Lines soliciting ocean freight. 
Bad Robertshaw got me out'* of bed at eight o'clock Saturday morning claiming that it was late since he had been in ton-n since five that morning. I ate breakfast with him; but was still half asleep. "Track" Craiie explained that he was working for the same company as Bud, bat in different cities. Bud has a position and "Triick" has a iob. Saw Gavan in the' Oliver again. Joe BIal> queen was sitting behind a table in the lohby pass­ing out folders of some kind, but I never was able to find out Just what they were. Met Mrs. Becker after the game and. of course, Gavan was sitting at the table with George and Dorothy. Hank Engel was at the same table. Joe Gerwe was also there with Tom Hammond, and they both promised to write soon. Mark Gmenenfelder was sitting around and it really was swell to see him again. He's working in an architect's office and holds such an important position that he can take time off with pay. 
Norb Schickel was at the "Sadie Hawkins Day" dance Saturday night and was having a good time. Jack Cook, ex. '40. was back in town and exi>ecls tn locate in Chicago after the first of the year. Gavan was also there for a short while. Saw LcKoy Keach, who said that John Conrtner was working too hard at Med School to do mudi writing. Phil Carroll. Floyd Snnivan and Eddie Jacobs were running around. Fhil and Floyd are still going to Iowa Law School ('nuff said). The only class that .wasn't well represented was the pre-med school, but then they must be working hard for a change. At least some of you could write a card or, a note so we can all find out about you. Saw Tad Harvey at the Oliver: he was so busy I didn't have a chance to talk to him at all. Just before I left I saw Johnny Gavan and he 
. hadn't changed at all since the last time I saw him. 
Leaving for home now, but I'll leave this news ­^vith Bill Dooley so you can all check up on one another. Someone asked me to be sure and check up on Doc Donohncl What are you doing. Doc? What's everybody doing? Very few of you are writing. 
James T. Connell, Ne^vpprt, R. I., was to have started air cadet training Nov. 30- Out of 45 ex­amined, Jim was one of four," who passed the-exam. 
John Martin sends' word along of the ND . fellows at Fordham Law school. Besides John, Pete Reilly, Pete Marten and'Jim Rogerm; all of '40, and Luke LaCroix* '39, are all there. 
Blooming as journalists were '.the Femcdins twins, Tom and John, even while tNey were aboard the XJ.S.S. Arkansas in their Navy';Reserve train­ing. The boys had shorts printed fin the ship's paper, the ArkUte. 
Dick Fallon writes to say that BobjPoagherty* Joe JHathey, Tom Hinogroe and himself are at the law school of Columbia university in-;New York. Dick received a Dean's scholarship.", (^rlie C ^ can, *39, came out with top honora •in-'the first year class of law last year, the only;'man to re­ceive all "A's." ' • .­
Paul McCormack is with a Hartford, Conn., advertising agency. 
From his- dster we get the lowdown on Francis "Boodle" Albert, Jr., who is coaching athletics 
at ChrxstUnsborff High school, Christiansbonr* Va., and teadiins seidor histotr. Boo£« was also ptajer-eoaefa of the Rosnnke TVareloi^ m ^ o foot­ball ootfit His Ui ^ adiool won its first fbotball gam* in five years on Oct. 11. incMim tally, this gan»e was dedicated to Knnte Eednc. XdJ wQI reach Boo£e at Chrittiansborg High SebooL 
ATHLETICS 
(Contintud from Vase 9) 

versity centennial. The anniversary •will actually be celebrated in 1942, and Lay-den stated that there will be five games at home and four away that vpar. 
Arizona is a newcomer to the sched­ule, and the game was carded partly out of appreciation for the hospitable treat­ment ^ven by that school to the Notre Dame squad on its bi-annual trips to Los Angeles for the Southern California game. The Irish always stop in Tucson, 
•working out on the Arizona field. 
Indiana returns to •the schedule next year, replacing Iowa. Traditional games with Georgia Tech, Carnegie Tech, Illi­nois, Army, Navy, Northwestern, and-Southern California complete the impos­ing program. 
The complete 1941 schedule follows: 
Sept. 27—Arizona at Notre Dame 
Oct. 4—^Indiana at Notre Dame 

Oct. 11—Georgia Tech at Atlanta 
Oct. 18—Carnegie Tech at FittshnnA 

Oct. 25—Illinois at Notre Dame 
Nov. 1—^Army at New York 
Nov. 8—^Navy at Baltimore 
Nov. 15—^Northwestern at Evanston 
Nov. 22—Soothem California at Notre Dame 
TRACK 
The indoor track season got under way at Notre Dame as Coach Bill Mah­oney sent his boys through their paces in pre-season conditioning work. Accord­ing to Mahoney, "We have a predomi­nantly sophomore team. Our material is promising but thoroughly untried." • 
Ketuming veterans from last year's varsity include: Bob Saggau, Bill Buen­ger, and Frank Sheets in the sprints; Ray Roy, the only quarter-miler; Capt. Joe Olbrys in the half; Bill Bogan and John Paul Scully, distance men; Joe . Prokop, George Schiewe, hurdlers; Cliflf Brosey, Eddie Sullivan and Herk Bereolos, weights. 
. These veterans •will be supplemented by several promising sophomore run­ners: Francis Gibson and Bill Wood, sprinters; Hank Priester and Dick Tupta, quarter-mOers; Ollie Hunter, Tony Ma­loney, Frank Conforti, Will Riordan, Chuck Crimmins, distance men; Bill Mcholson and Bill Dillon, hurdlers; Keith O'Rourke, high jump; Bob Gar­vey, broad jump; Smith and WiethofF, pole-iraolters. 


The University of Notre Dame du Lac 
Notre Dame, Indiana, U. S. A. Colleges and Departments 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Department of Religion Department of Philosophy Department of English Department of Classics Department of Modern Language Department of History Department of Economics Department of Politics 
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 

Department of Biology Department of Chemistry (Special programs for pre-medical 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
Department of Civil Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering Department of Electrical Engineering Department of Architecture Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department

 Department Department 

of Sociology of Social Work of Education of Physical Education of Art of Music of Speech of Journalism 
of Physics of Mathematics 

and for pre-dental students) 
Department of Mining Engineering Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Metallurgy Department of Aeronautical Engineering 

Department of Engineering Drawing 
COLLEGE OF LAW 

COLLEGE OF COMMERCE 
Department of Finance 

Department of Business 
GRADUATE SCHOOL 


Philosophy History English Economics 
Administration 


Politics Sociology Social Work 

NOTE TO ALUMNI 
Please urge early registration, preferably first semester of the senior high school year or earlier, for relatives or friends. Three advantages accrue: 
1.
 The applicant is sure of coming within the quota of the College of the University he chooses, if accepted. 

2.
 The applicant is sure of securing a room on the campus, if accepted. 

3.
 The applicant learns upon application of any deficiencies in entrance requirements, before completing high school. 


Action on the above suggestions will pre­vent many of the disappointments to alumni and friends which occurred this year in con­duction with a capacity enrollment well ahead of the opening of school. 
Department of Foreign Commerce Department of Accounting 

Education Chemistry Mathematics Biology Physics Metallurgy • 
ENTRANCE REQUIRE^dENTS Notre Dame 
GROUP I—^Ninc Required (Ten in Science and Engineerinff) English (all Colleges) 3 units History (all Colleges) ^liunit Algebra (all Colleges) SlBinit Geometry (all Colleges) ^I^ unit Science (Eng. and Sci. - Physics required) 1 unit l.anguage (all Colleges) 2 units Science (except for pre-medical course) and Engineering 
require y> unit each of Int. or Adv. Solid Gcometrj*. 
GROUP II English, 4th year... 
Latin Greek French ^ German Spanish History ; Algebra (Int. or Solid Gcometrj-Trigonometry Physiography 
Physiology Astronomy Botany . Zoology 
Chemistry 
Physics 

 Adv.)­
GROUP III—(Not more than Three counted) Electives—Any subjects which High School 
 Algebra, and 
1 unit 
. 2 to 4 units 2 or 3 units 2 to 4 units 2 to 4 units . 2 to 4 units _ 2 units _y. unit _i4 unit „>/ unit _y. unit _y. unit _V. unit _y. unit _iy4 unit .. 1 unit _ 1 unit 
 accredits. 

JIINIJIUJr TOTAL REQUIRED­







