The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
AUGUST 1971 

,^.^i 

9QQ9V -pui 'amvQ ojc^oa Aa^aqiq fejaomg^K 
•q-ei -oi^oq^ 3j SuiiuxijojoiPi • p-eaa ^•^^10 "d siouta^ -ail 
VOL. 49, NO. 4 AUGUST, 1971 
James D . Cooncy *59 ExECUTi\-E DIRECTOR ALUMNI ASSOUATION EDITOR 
Timothy J. Hughes *61 ^IAKAGING EDTTOR Gcoise A. SchcucT '28 CHIEF COPY EDITOR 
M. Bnicc Harlan '49 CHIEF PHOTOGRAPHER 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OFFICERS 
Donald F. O'Brien '42 HONORARY PRESIDENT 
Robert A. Erkins '45 PRESIDENT John T. Massman '56 VICE-PRESIDENT, ADMINISTRATI\"E AFFAIRS Frank L. McGinn '52 VICE-PRESIDENT, ALUMNI AFFAIRS 
Robert L. McGoldridk '55 VICE-PRESIDENT, STUDENT AFFAIRS 
Leonard H. Tosc '37 VlCE-RlESIDENT, .-ACADEMIC AFFAIRS James D. Cooney '59 EXECUTI\X DIRECTOR Michael E. Jordan '68 ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 

DIRECTORS TO 1972 
Robert A. Erkins '45, P.O. Box 546, Buhl, Idaho 83316 John T. Massman '56, 3917 Broadway, Kansas City, MO . 64111 Frank L. McGinn '52, 900 Bldg., Pompano Beach, Fki. 33062 Robea L. McGoldrick '5G, 15 Drury Lane, West Hartford, Conn. 06117 Leonard H. Tosc '37, 64 W. 4th St., Bridge­port, Pa. 19405 

DIRECTORS TO 1973 
Daniel D. Canalc '42, 1325 Commerce Title Bldg., Memphis, Tcnn. 38103 Dr. John C. Lungrcn "38, 4180 Chestnut Ave., Long Beach, Calif, 90807 James C. MacDe\-itt '35, 43 Hampslrre Rd., Great Neck, N.Y. 11023 Joseph T. O'Neill '53, 60 W. 4th St., St. Paul. Minn. 55102 John R. Panelli '49, 17549 Kirkshirc, Bir­mingham, Mich. 48009 


DIRECTORS TO 1974 
Joseph G. Bertrand '54, 8114 S. Luella Ave., Chicago, III. 60617 Paul J. Doyle '36, 5061 Cedar Creek Dr., Houston, Tex. 77027 Peter F. Flaherty '51. 5033 Castlcman St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15232 WiHiam K. AfcGoiran Jr. '57, 108 Penns)l­\'ania Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 46204 Charles F. Osbom '38, 7315-5Ist N.E., Seattle, Wash. 98115 1971 Notre Dame ALUMNUS, University of Notre Dame, all rights reserved. Reproduc­tion ^in whole or in part ^s-ithout ^\Titten permission is prohibited. 
The Notre Dame ALUSINUS is published monthly, except January, Afarch, Alay, August and November, by the University of Notre Dame. Second-class postage paid at 

FEATURES 
6 The Dean 10 On Tour 12 A la Recherche du Temps Perdu 15 Notre Dame's New Breed 20 Look What They've Done to My Gym, Ma 
DEPARTMENTS 
3 ND News 
26 Alumni Speak 
27 Old Faces-New Places 
28 Class Notes 
50 Graduate Schools 
51 Club News 
58 On Record 
59 Alumni Ask 
Photo credits: pp. 20-25, Dick Stevens 
REiWEMBERING THINGS PAST 
This could be called a nostalgia issue. Our cover conjures up (we hope) images of an old-time Notre Dame. The top picture is of the ND crew sometime in the late 1800's, accord­ing to the University archives. The photo of the Main Building as seen from Notre Dame Ave. could also be dated in the late 1800's. Note the dirt road, rutted with wagon tracks. 
Just below our logo is a solemn group of clergymen looking a little bored with dedication ceremonies for the (then) new library in 1917. The building now houses architecture stu­dents. In the center of the photo is Fr. John W. Cavanaugh, University president from 1905 to 1919. 
The striped-shirted footballers were not varsity men. They played on the Law School's intramural team in 1896. Below is the old library read-

LSU TICKETS 

Tickets for the Alumni Holi­days Tour to the Notre Dame-LSU game in Baton Rouge were not secured from the Notre Dame allotment. They were secured from other sources, but are included in the tour package offered by the Notre Dame Alumni As­sociation.—James D. Cooney, Executive Director. 
ing room in the Main Building some­time around 1890. The photo at bottom shows two early-day engineer­ing students. 
We thought this might be a good time to arouse memories because it's the first issue after a highly successful Reunion '71. More than a thousand graduates returned for the festivities in mid-June. Rather than rehash the events of the weekend, it seemed to us more interesting to find out what happened on campus during the senior years of the reunion classes. And that's what we did, beginning on page 12. Our historical records were not the best—old Alumnus and Scho­lastic magazines. But they provided some good memories. 
Two other features are calculated to bring back recollections of the good old days. Although Daniel (Dean) Pedtke is still going strong, he's been leading the Glee Club for 32 years. Also around a long time, the old field-house is still standing, but as an arts center. 
For a more up-to-date look at the campus, we have an interview with Fr. Hesburgh in which he talks about today's Notre Dame student. 
All in all, a memorable feast for the reader. 
^A
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 





tth ii Willi Gifts 
Notre Dame was fourth among the institutions of higher learning.- in alumni gifts to the annual fund during 1969-70. The ND alumni contribu­tions totaled $2,763,462, a figure which also was greater than that of any other Catholic university. 
Of the top ten. Harvard was first with $4,812,056. Yale was second with $4,253,943 and Cornell third with $3,827,382. 
Following ND were: Princeton, $2,459,546; Michigan $2,292,367; Massachusetts Institute of Technology, $2,281,289; Penn State, $2,233,391; Brown $2,091,880 and Ohio State $2,072,916. 
Notre Dame also was I8th among the nation's 1,500 senior colleges and universities in total voluntary support with $16,073,619, more than any other Catholic university received. 
The figures, given in the annual report of the Council for Financial Aid to Education, listed total volun­tary support of colleges and universi­ties at an estimated $1.8 billion, about 1 per cent less than in the previous year. Private institutions, however, collectively reported a decrease of 9 per cent. 

REGILDING STATUE—Workmen regild the statue of the Blessed Virgin atop the Golden Dome of the ND Administration Building. The process involves scraping off the peeUnggold leaf, applying sizing and then covering the statue with the thin, 23-carat gold foil. The dome itself, which was regilded in 1961, is still in good shape. 

UhrakM 
Liturgy is not merely a structure of ceremonies in which prayer may occur but is a form of prayer itself. Rev. Aidan Kavanagh OSB, direc­tor of liturgical studies at ND, told a conference at the University. 
Father Kavanagh defined liturgy as "the community of faith as such engaged in asking God for happi­ness, for Himself, in public through poetic media of words, gestures and actions woven together within con­texts that are symbolic." The liturgist said he was prepared to listen to a variety of persons—^including St. Au­gustine, Father Daniel Berrigan and Bishop James Walsh—on prayer "be­cause these people at least know from their own experience something of what it costs 'to behold the fair beau­ty of the Lord.' But I am not pre­pared to hear on this matter ex-priests who are stockbrokers or nuns who paint their toenails. Even less am I prepared to listen on the point of prayer to those who insist that it is merely 'self-knowledge' or to those who in their unprofitable exu­berance cannot distinguish liturgy from life." 
Father Kavanagh said verbal pray­ers should be short, and cited the Our Father as "the complete distillation of all the psalms and prayers found in the wisdom literature." 

Cirlici Nad HcH 
Leo J. Corbaci M.A. '51, who had been registrar and assistant provost of the University, has been promoted to the newly created post of dean of administration. His new ofBce is ab­sorbing the ofiices of planning and analysis and institutional studies. 
Rev. James T. Burchaell CSC, provost, said Corbaci's oflice would be charged with developing and main­taining a management information system, analytical studies for plan­ning, space allocation, inventory and control procedures, and implementa­tion of operational systems to be used in both academic and business a£Fairs. He will report to the provost and the executive vice president. 
Replacing Corbaci as registrar is 
Richard J. Sullivan '63, M.A. '69 who 
has served eight years as associate 
registrar. The new associate registrar 
is Donald C. Rosenthal, who con­
tinues concurrently as registrar at St. 
Mary's College. 
Daniel J. Osberger '50, who was 
assistant director of planning and 
analysis, has become assistant dean of 
administration, and Charles W. Mc-
Collester M.A. '60, coordinator of 
analytical planning. He has been di­
rector of institutional studies. 

DDbDS. Hnns Cenfer 
In the 19th annual Union-Manage­ment conference sponsored by ND's Department of Economics, June 11, a union spokesman predicted that or­ganized labor would continue to seek expanded and liberalized benefits that will "protect the standard of living of American workers in an inflationary economy, both before and after re­tirement." 
Gilbert Jewell, president of the Allied Industrial Workers of Amer­ica, AFL-CIO, said new benefits to be sought win include drug prescrip­tion programs, vision and dental care, group auto insurance, prepaid legal aid, psychiatric care, income tax ser­vice and day care centers among others. 
The conference, directed by Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald CSC '28, chair­man of the industrial relations sec­tion of the Department of Economics, was held in O'Laughlin Auditorium, St. Mary's College. 
Another speaker, Malcolm G. House, director of industrial relations for Clark Equipment Co., Buchanan, Mich., suggested "gearing" of future labor contracts to be centered around the basic concept of "a fair day's work for a fair day's pay." 
Another union spokesman, Arthur 
E. Last, director of the engineering department of United Auto Workers, Detroit, said management's responsi­bility is not only building products or rendering services, but providing modem facilities where most of the workers' lives are spent. 
Eugene H. Worcester, plant man­ager for Uniroyal Tire Co., Indianap­olis, asked concern "for the contribu­tion from both management and labor so necessary to maintain our previous growth in productivity." 
liRiir Menoriii 

An open area between the Hayes-Healy Center for graduate business education and the Hurley College of Business Administration has been landscaped and dedicated as the Ralph and Phillip Lucier Courtyard. The gift of Loren M. Berry and his son, John W. Berry, Dayton, Ohio, it is a memorial to Ralph Lucier, an In­diana telephone company executive, and his son, Phillip, a St. Louis tele­phone official who died July 24, 1970. 
Loren Berry was a close friend of the late Ralph Lucier who was presi­dent of the United Telephone Com­pany of Indiana. Phillip Lucier, a 1942 graduate of ND, was a mem­ber of the College of Business Admin­istration's advisory council and presi­dent of the Continental Telephone Co. He was killed when a bomb planted in his car exploded in a St Louis parking lot. His widow and 10 of their 11 children attended the ded­ication of the courtyard at which Rev. 
Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, ND 
President, and Most Rev. Leo A. 
Pursley, Bishop of Fort Wayne-
South Bend, officiated. 

A memorial booklet about Phillip called "That's Phil.. . With Two I's," has been written by A. M. Burrell, former director for the telephone firm of which Lucier was president. Some of the proceeds from the sale of the anecdotal profile of Lucier will be put in a Phillip J. Lucier scholar­ship fund at ND. The booklet may be ordered from the Notre Dame Book­store. 

Frick Heils Grow 
James W. Frick '51, ND vice presi­dent for public relations and develop­ment, became president of the Amer­ican College Public Relations Associa­tion at its annual meeting, July 19-21 in Washington, D.C. Also at the con­vention were James W. Murphy, as­sistant vice president for public re­lations and development; James V. Gibbons '53, director of special proj­ects; Richard W. Conklin M.A. '59, director of information services and 
DEDICATE COURTYARD—The Ralph and Phillip Lucier Courtyard at the College of Business Administration was dedicated June 19 in memory of Ralph and his son, Phillip. Taking part were, left to right: Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, ND President: Mrs. John Berry, wife of one of the donors; Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, Bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend; Mrs. Phillip Lucier, and John Berry who joined his father, Loren M. Berry,in the donation. 
Ronald R. Parent, assistant director. 
At a concurrent convention of the 
American Alumni Council in Wash­
ington were James D. Cooney '59, 
executive director of the ND Alumni 
Association; Michael Jordan '68, as­
sistant director, and Timothy J. 
Hughes '61, managing editor of the 
ALXJMNUS. 

Aiil Refioies 
If you received a letter from a 
Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student 
asking you to contribute money to 
"The Notre Dame Refugee Aid Pro­
gram," perhaps we can reduce your 
possible surprise and confusion. In 
this day of a thousand and one "come­
ons," charitable and otherwise, it is 
important to know authentic infor­
mation about charitable requests. 
The Refugee Aid Program (known around the campuses as RAP) origi­nated in the late March after a stu­dent discussion about the effects of the Vietnam war on the peasant civil­ian population. A reading of the Senate's subcommittee report on refu­gees revealed that the fighting had resulted in four million refugees in Vietnam. Cambodia claims about 300,000 refugees, and in one year of fighting in Laos a reported million civilians have been driven from their homes and villages. 
Thus armed with a myriad of sta­tistics, pamphlets, films, and speakers who have returned from Indochina, the students developed a plan to raise money. 
Students, faculty, and administra­tors were asked to abstain from spending money on luxury items from April 4 to May 4. About 700 students and faculty agreed to do so, with the agreement that the money saved would be contributed to a fund at the end of the month-long period. The group sponsored free concerts and films for those that had agreed to give up more expensive forms of entertainment, and by the end of the month long period about $3,500 had been collected. 
The organizers agreed at the outset that the money would go to the Amer­ican Service Committee's Medical Aid Center for Civilian Refugees at Quang Ngai, South Vietnam. Quang Ngai, a city below the demilitarized zone, has about 250,000 refugees. The hospital is staffed by six Catholics, six Quak­ers, and 45 Vietnamese. The chief work of the Center is prosthetics; every month about 200 Vietnamese men, women, and children are fitted with artificial limbs that replace arms and legs lost as a result of bombs and land mines. 
The Refugee Aid Program partici­pants at Notre Dame have been at­tempting to write personal letters to some of the 47,000 Notre Dame alum­ni, explaining the reasons for the program and asking for contributions. If alumni desire more information on this program, or if they would like to mail a tax-deductible contribution, students will be continuing the pro­gram throughout the summer and next year. The program's address is Box 626, Notre Dame, Indiana. 

faculty Promotions 
Eleven professors have retired from Notre Dame and 25 faculty members were promoted. 
Designated professors emeriti at the annual President's Dinner, hosted by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, May 8 in the North Dining Hall, were Dr. Charles E. Brambel, professor of chemistry; Dr. Milton Burton, direc­tor of the Radiation Laboratory; Le-Clair H. Eells, professor of finance and business economics; Christopher 
J. Fagan, associate professor of eco­nomics, and Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald CSC '28, professor of economics. Father Fitzgerald was appointed to the rank of faculty fellow. 
Also designated as emeriti were Rev. Joseph N. Garvin CSC '29, professor of modem and classical languages; James A. McCarthy, pro­fessor of civil engineering; Reginald 
A. Newton, visiting professor of edu­cation; Daniel H. Pedtke, associate professor of music; Edward R. Quinn '28, assistant dean of Freshman Year of Studies, and Victor A. Schaefer, professor of library science. 
Honored for 50 years on the faculty was Raymond J. Schubmehl '21, a professor of engineering science. 
Eight members of the teaching and research faculty received promotions to full professor. They include Dr. Rudolph S. Bottei, chemistry; Dr. Donald P. Costello, English; Robert 
S. Eikenberry, aerospace and mechan­ical engineering; Dr. Emerson G. Funk Jn, physics; Dr. Yusaku Furu­hashi, marketing; Rev. Aidan Kava­nagh O.S.B., theology; Dr. Stuart T. McComas, aerospace and mechanical engineering; and Dr. Kenneth M. Sayre, philosophy. 
Promoted to associate professor were Rev. John C. Burke CSC '36, mathematics; Dr. David L. Dodge, so­ciology; Rev. James F. Flanigan CSC '58, art; Rev. James J. McGrath CSC, biology; Dr. Walter J. Nicgorski, gen­eral program of liberal studies; Dr. Kok-Wee Phan, mathematics; Edward 
E. Pickard, architecture; Dr. Richard Saeks, electrical engineering; and A. Peter Walshe, government Harold F. Moore, an instructor in the general program, was promoted to assistant professor. 
Honored for 25 years of service on the faculty were: Frederick S. Beckman, art; Rev. Ferdi­nand L. Brown, CSC, associate provost; Dr. 
A. Robert Caponigri, jAilosophy; Dr. Anton 
H. Chroust, history; Leroy D. Graves, dvil engineering; Dr. Paul E. McLane, English; Dr. Archie J. MacAlpin, geology; Dr. Dar­win J. Mead, Freshman Year; Dr. Walter 
C. Miller, physics; and Thomas T. Murphy, dean of the College of Business Administra­tion. 
Ako, Dr. Robert D. Nuner, modem languages; Dr. Ettore A. Peretti, metal­lurgical engineering; Dr. Ernest R Sandeen, English; Rev. Albert L. Schlitzer CSC, theology; Rev. Charles E Sheedy CSC, dean of theological studies; William E. Slowey, accountancy; Rev. Chester A. Soleta CSC, English; Dr. Adolph G. Strand-hagen, aerospace and mechanical engineer­ing; and Dr. Morris Wagner, microbiology. 
NSFGnil 
Notre Dame has received $900,000 from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to support programs in the College of Science begun under the Science Development Program's Cen­ters of Excellence grants. Dr. Bernard Waldman, dean of the College of Science, has announced. 
The funds will be used to consoli­date gains made since 1967, when the NSF awarded Notre Dame $4.78 mil­lion. 
"^^' 

•'^ 
;^*"-' 
•*x 

The. last notdsi.i Club selection'. applause from:the. audience::The'ifif' rector, Daniel H:'~'T3eiaii7:fP»atke;/';­turns to acknowledge-it -His';diy''': smile and bow, more a iiod than any-, thing else, say that'he'wants'.to be' sure the singers g^t all the credit for the performance. 
The Glee Club singers are ..well aware, however, that Dean is the reason for their success. And it's been that way for the 33 years he has been director. "The club is Dean arid Dean is the club," says a current member. "He communicates an enthusiasm for music that shows in our perfor­mances." 
Under Pedtke's leadership the "Sing­ing Irish" have appeared in virtually every major city in the United States. The Club tours two or three times each year, singing concerts for alumni groups and civic associations. They appeared on the "Ed Sullivan Show" on Easter Sunday for eight consecu­tive years. 
This year the Club traveled to Bos­
ton over the Thanksgiving holiday, and in the spring made an extensive tour of the Western states. They ap­peared in 13 cities. The biggest trip of all, however, took place after the school year ended. The 40-member group toured Europe, appearing in Brussels, Munich, Vienna, Innsbruck, Rome, Milan and Zurich. 
One of Dean's keys to success is his closeness to the members. "I see these guys five days a week—^nobody knows them better than I do. I can al­most always tell what they're going to 
By Mike Lenehan do next." 

Glee Clubbers are always welcome at the Pedtke home, often the site of Club parties and cookouts. They also often drop in for informal get-togeth­ers with Dean and his wife, Helen (called "Mrs. Dean" by the Club members). These gatherings always include much conversation and a few six-packs of beer. 
Dean also manages to keep tabs on many of his former students, even the ones who left Notre Dame 20 and 30 years ago. He can always count on meeting former Club members while on tour. Even in Europe, several were on hand for concerts. When Glee Club alumni return for football games, they are always assured of a warm welcome and a hot bowl of chili at the Pedtke place afterwards. 
Professor Pedtke holds the highest rank that can be given to an Ameri­can organist, that of Fellow in the American Guild of Organists. This award is given on the basis of an an­nual competitive examination, a rigor­ous test of theory, improvisation, per­formance, and music history. Pedtke is the only Indiana resident who holds this rank in the Guild. He is one of only five to be named "Distinguished Alumnus" by DePaul University, his alma mater. 
Dean began his musical career at the age of five, when he started play­ing the piano. By the time he was 15, he had given his first recital, and shortly began giving organ recitals. While going through night school for his high school diploma, he worked in a music store. There he spent many hours in the back room reading up on music theory and history. While he was still young he played as a guest pianist with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, as a result of a competition that he won. He has worked as an accompanist for touring vocalists in the Midwest, as a theater pianist in the days of silent films, and as an ac­companist for WGN radio in Chi­cago. In addition he has served as organist and choirmaster in numerous churches since he was 15, most re­cently at St. Patrick's in South Bend. 
A respected authority on Beethoven, Pedtke is also an expert in music theory and orchestration. He has pub­lished a book for music students en­titled "Keyboard Harmony." He also composes, and most of his energy in this field is directed toward revitaliz­ing the musical liturgy of the church, an area of special interest to him. He says that there is "so much junk" pass­ing for religious music today, that this field deserves someone's attention. 
When he finally leaves Notre Dame, projects in this area will probably take up most of his time. He has com­posed and published a Mass in honor of St. Jude, and he is currently work­ing on a project to translate a Lotti Mass into English. 
Dean Pedtke also has some more conventional interests. He is an avid Chicago Cubs fan (he grew up just six blocks from Wrigley Field), a pas­time which has caused him consider­able frustration recently. He is also a compulsive pinochle player — so much so, in fact, it is rumored that there was a time when almost anyone who could play pinochle was auto­matically accepted into the Glee Club. 
But his greatest interest, besides music, is the Pedtke home. It is his "dream world," according to son Bob. The property, which lies about two miles north of campus, covers 14 acres, and it might well be called a farm. Besides the Pedtke family, a cow, a horse, four German shepherds, and a number of ducks, geese, and chickens can be found roaming the property. Dean designed the house himself, and built it along with—who else?—members of the Glee Club. (The Glee Club also erected a fence on the property for Dean last year.) He also built the several bridges which cross a brook on his property. 
Dean Pedtke came to Notre Dame in 1936, after serving for four years as head of the music department of St. Theresa's College in Winona, Minn. He assumed leadership of the Notre Dame music department in 1939. He held the post until 1955, thus ac­quiring his title of Dean. During the post-WW II years. Dean built the music department program and fac­ulty up to the point where there was a dramatic increase in the number of music majors at the University and the music department enjoyed a good national reputation. He promoted such an interest in music at ND that at one time there were no less than four glee clubs representing the University. 
Since the late '50s, the music pro­gram has grown smaller at Notre Dame, a move which Pedtke thinks is necessary in the large modem uni­versity. He commented that it is far too costly and troublesome for a uni­versity to maintain a music depart­ment that can compete with the coun­try's famous music schools and con­servatories, in terms of faculty, fa­cilities, and sincerely interested stu­dents. He feels that, eventually, most university-affiliated music departments will follow the path that Notre Dame and others have taken. These should be just big enough, in Dean's opinion, "to expose the students to fine music and make it available to them if they wish to learn about it." 
At Notre Dame long enough to re­member when it was "more like a re­form school than a university," Dean speaks openly of the changes that have occurred in Notre Dame and her students since he first came here. "The whole system of education has changed," since Pedtke first began teaching, and he feels that changes in the academic world are reflective of changes in the whole society. He thinks that the most dramatic change in university life at Notre Dame has occurred in the last four years. In ad­dition to the greater degree of general freedom which the ND student of to­day enjoys, he attributes much of this change to the initiation of the co-ex program and the move toward co­education. He remembers a time when the sight of a girl on campus was "a major event." 
Dean Pedtke seems to feel that these changes have made Notre Dame a better place, and he sees no adverse effects in the loosening of University control over the students. "Notre Dame has always attracted pretty much the same type of student," Pedtke said. "On the whole, he is a more serious type of student than you're apt to find elsewhere." He thinks that the typical ND student is "a little higher in his aims—more con­cerned with getting an education than with just getting a degree." Part of this, he thinks, is due to the fact that Notre Dame is a private school. He feels that the greater freedom which the students have obtained is a good thing, because it "places more re­sponsibility on the students them­selves." 
Since leaving his post as head of the music department. Professor Pedtke has been teaching organ and theory courses at Notre Dame, and, of course, directing the Glee Club. This is still his first love, and he some­times wonders what he will do when he eventually retires. Members of the Glee Club are also wondering, be­cause they don't think any man wiU ever be able to replace Dean. Even at a university where the generation gap is smaller than at most places, the re­spect and love that exist between Dean and his students is remarkable. Al­though this respect will undoubtedly continue long after Dean has left, the Glee Club doesn't ever figure to be the same without him. 

dsferreichisch-Amerikanisdie Gesdlschaft • Unn 
prasentieren 

University of Notrj 
den beruhmten amerikanischi (The Singing li 
AUSZUG aus dem KONZERTPI 
Ave Maria Vittoria I waited (or the Lord . Mem The Siesta Cain 
The Heavens Declare . Marcello The Rose Alleluia Chorus ... . Hdndel 
was Moist .with Dew . Schui The Omnipotence . . . Schubert Rigoletto Quartette . . Verdil 
Mittwoch, 2. Juni1971, Be GroBerFestsaal im Haus der Industrie, Wi 
r i-r^C i •* ­
S?' 

Kartenvorverlcauf (S 25,- bis S 50,-) im Sekretariat der GesBH^jkift, Wien 1; Stailburggasse 2, Tel. 52 
"'•^^ -rid ^Otudt Agwis-Wwlc Gayv+Cb. 10S0 W«n, Sdilo 
Si 
ON TOUR 
[ats-Sfingerschaft Waltharia ome 
40-Mann-Chor 
ND Glee Club travels to Europe. 
May 25, 1971 .. . The Singing Irish treat passengers at JFK International Airport, New York, to "'MacNa­mara's Band. May 26 . . . 6:30 a.m. arrival. Tour Amsterdam after hotel check-in. See the art museum, the homes of Rembrandt and Anne Frank, boat ride on a canal. May 27 . . . Seven-hour bus trip to Brussels, Belgium. Singing at the American Club. A visit with Ambassador John Eisenhower. May 28 . . . Eight hours in a television studio taping a concert. May 29 .. . On to Munich. Thirteen hours by bus. Later the famed Hof­brauhaus rang with beery renditions of 'The Victory March" and "When Irish Backs Go Marching By." May 
30 . . . Tour Munich. Concert at the 
U.S. Army base. Dinner afterwards at the enlisted men's club. Back to the Hofbrauhaus. May 31 . . . free day for touring. June 1 .. . On to Vienna. Ten hours with a stop at Salzburg for two hours of sightseeing. June 2 . . . Morning tour of the city. Concert at the Hall of Industry. Great audience. June 3 . . . Through the Alps to Inns­bruck. Austria. Dinner with ND stu­dents studying in Innsbruck. June 4 . . . Formal tour of city. Dinner and concert at Shiftssale. June 5 . . . On to Venice and first taste of authentic Italian food. Tour — St. Mark's, Grand Canal, gondoliers. June 6 . . . To Rome with a stop in Florence. Arrive in Rome at 5 p.m. Stay at Loyola U.'s campus in Rome. June 7 . . . Full day's tour: Vatican. St. Pe­ter's Basilica. Forum and all. June 8 . . . Rehearsal at Santa Suzanna, a visit to the Sistine Chapel, the Vatican museum, Trevi Fountain. A concert with reception afterwards hosted by Maurice Scanlon '33. former Glee Club president. Dinner with Vince McAloon at the ND Rome Hospital­ity Center. June 9 . . . Eight hours by bus to Milan. Concert at the Collegio San Carlo. Reception at the foreign office of the Bank of Chicago. Hosted by two ND graduates. Mike Lahey '64 and Jim O'Hare '64, former busi­ness manager for the Glee Club. June 
10 . . . Formal tour includes seeing DaVinci's "Last Supper" and the La-Scala Opera House. June 11 . . . Zurich. Arrive 4 p.m., dinner, tour­ing, concert at Kilchberg Church. June 12-13 . . . Paris. Sing at the 11 
a.m. service in the American Church of Paris. June 14 . . . Going home. 
1921 The remodeled Cafeteria on the ground floor of Badin Hall opened October 14, a month late. The O. A. 
A la Recherche do Temn Penh Clark management claimed to serve "15 students a min­
Remembering things past is what Reunion 71 was all about. 
ute." . . . Frank E. Coughlin was senior class president and captain of the football team. Frank Miles was captain of the baseball team and Al Slaggert was head cheerleader. The undefeated Rockne-coached football team scored 250 points to 44 for opponents. . . . Walter O'Keefe aranged a senior class vaudeville program the Tuesday night before the Senior Ball. . . . The movie "Way Down East" was shown in Washington Hall before it opened in Chicago. Edward B. Doyle was editor-in-chief of the "Dome" and George D. O'Brien edited the "Juggler." Miss Elizabeth Nourse, an actress, received the Laetare Medal. 
1926 Enrollment reached a record 2,500. Howard Hall 
was opened in the fall of '25, named "in recognition of 
the renowned Professor Howard of former years." Mor­
rissey Hall was under construction. .. . A sportswriter 
from the Waco (Tex.) Morning News was impressed by 
the sportsmanship of the ND student body during the 
Baylor game at ND: "One of Baylor's favorite yells were 
(sic) given (by ND students) with as much zest . . . had 
the yell been given in Waco by Baylor students. There 
were nine short rahs for Bridges, and nine more for 
Walker. And when Bennie Strickland got off a long 
spiral in practice, there were nine more for him." ND 
won 41-0. .. . A new extension was built on the gymna-; 
sium, giving it a seating capacity of 5,000. . . . The ; 
university barn burned down. The Rev. John F. O'Hara ; 
published his fifth annual Religious Survey. One question ; 
asked students: "If there are any Notre Dame men in I 
your home parish, what kind of Catholics are they?" j 
The 685 responses showed only one "fallen away" Cath-j 
olic and two "bad" Catholics. . . . The first annual i' 
Alumni Board meeting took place February 20. Com- ?• 
mencement was June 13 with Hon. Dudley G. Wooten, *• 
former congressman and teacher at ND, the speaker. Is 
1931 G. K. Chesterton, poet, essayist, critic, novelist, ; economist and sociologist, was given an honorary degree • at a special convocation on Nov. 15. He presented a ;• series of 36 lectures on the literature and history of the h. Victorian period. . . . Alumni and Dillon Halls were |: under construction and plans were drafted for the new £ College of Commerce and College of Engineering build- |i ings. . . . The new stadium was dedicated October 10, the I* night before the Navy game. . . . Knute Rockne was sf, killed in a plane crash in Kansas, March 31. . . . The fe-; Senior Ball was attended by 300 couples. John F. Saun-^: ders was class president. |j 
1936 The 2,700 students returning to campus in the fall |B. of '35 found that sidewalks had been installed all along f: the south quadrangle. Workmen were tearing out the|i tracks of the old Hill Street trolley. The new infirmary!} was being built. Howard Hall was being expanded. . . .f^­FT. Tom Brennan was the new head of the Philosophy f|; Department. . . . Franklin D. Roosevelt visited campusiS, to take part in Philippine Day ceremonies. . . . Headfe' Football Coach Elmer Layden predicted dire results for^S. the Irish in the coming season, but the team ended with|15 a 7-1-1 record. The squad was labeled the "Two-Minutefe Men" because they pulled out three victories and a tie infe the last two minutes against four teams: Pitt, Ohio State, 0^, Army and Southern Cal. It was the season of the famed^J 18-13 win over Ohio State, the last time the teams havetei met. . . . The Alumnus reported at exam time: "Thefe­
campus has become the 'House of a Thousand Candles' with the underclassmen utilizing that primitive method of illumination to circumvent the University regulation of early 'lights out'." One of the heroes of the Ohio State game, Bill Shakespeare, was also reported to have led ND seniors in "uncertain renditions" of Christmas carols on the St. Mary's College campus. . . . Construc­tion of Cavanaugh Hall was started in April. . . . Dr. William J. Mayo gave the June 7 commencement address. 
1941 A 99-year-old ND tradition was broken with the admission of ladies to a University-sponsored public ban­quet with the invitations to the Rockne dinner in the dining hall. . . . Rev. Michael J. Shea CSC *04, author of the "Victory March" died Aug. 19, 1940. "Knute Rockne-AU-American," a motion picture starring Pat O'Brien, was given its world premier in Washington Hall and four South Bend theaters. . . . The Notre Dame Committee for National Defense was formed to aid students in prepara­tion for future military and naval activity. Father John Ryan proposed a hikers' club to help prospective infantry­men get their feet in shape. . . . South Bend renamed a street Rockne Drive in honor of the late coach. . . . Frank Leahy was named head football coach and director of athletics. M. Robert Cahill, secretary to Elmer Layden for seven years, became assistant manager of athletics. . . . The Senior Ball was held in Rockne Memorial with Arabian nights as the decoration theme. . . . Clarence Manion was named dean of the Law School. . . . Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen and Joseph P. Kennedy were bacca­laureate and commencement speakers. Both received honorary degrees. 
1946 Veterans from every branch of the service totalled half of the ND student body. Married student housing was limited and Federal housing units (eventually known as "Vetville") were built and ready for the fall semester. . . . Enrollment for the spring semester reached a record 3,402. . . . Flet Admiral Chester W. Nimitz received an honorary degree at a special May 15 convocation in the Navy drill hall. . . . Thomas J. Stritch '34 was named head of the Department of Journalism, succeeding Dr. John M. Cooney, who died Oct. 15, 1945. . . . Rev. John J. Cavanaugh CSC '23 was named ND president, succeeding Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell CSC '16. . . . Formal observance of commencement—suspended during the war —was resumed June 28-30, with degrees conferred on 235 and the commissioning of 135 naval ensigns and 133 second lieutenants in the Marine Corps. Samuel Cardinal Stritch gave the baccalaureate sermon and George E. Sokolsky, columnist and lecturer, presented the com­mencement address. 
1951 Four home football games were covered by live television, a first for ND. . . . John Jordan was named head basketball coach, succeeding Edward "Moose" Krause, who continued as athletic director. . . . Alex Wilson became head track coach, succeeding Elvin R. Handy, who had been coach since 1942. . . . Ground was broken for the Morris Inn, gift of E. M. Morris '06. The Nieuwiand Science Building was also under con­struction. . . . Activation of a 400-man Army Engineering ROTC unit was approved. . . . ND had 269 navy, 279 marine corps and 425 air force trainees on campus during the school year. . . . Jacques Maritain received an hon­orary degree. ...LA . O'Shaughnessy added $673,533 to his previous gift of $1.5 million to complete the liberal and fine arts building eventually named in his honor. 

'ttltoirtiiir.r^­
'=^%.'\J 

1956 The social season started oflE with the Engineers Ball. The Scholastic reported: "Men of the College of Engineering and their dates will Turn Back the Hands of Time tonight from 9 o'clock until 1 a.m. as they dance to the music of Dan Belloc, his saxophone and his or­chestra, in the Student Center. Car permissions and a 2 a.m. residence curfew have been granted for tonight only." Jim Mason was chairman of the ball and his date, Mary Catherine Cullen, was crowned queen by engineering dean Karl Schoenherr. . . . Fr. Joyce and Charles H. Goren teamed up in a bridge-playing demonstration. . . . The NBC variety special "Coke Time" was telecast live from the campus. The show featured Eddie Fisher and his new bride, Debbie Reynolds. . . . Fr. Hesburgh was named to a second term as University president. . . . Gen. Curtis LeMay, head of the Strategic Air Command, was awarded Patriot of the Year honors. . . . Gen. Alfred M. Gruenther, supreme allied commander in Europe, was awarded the Laetare Medal. . . Admiral Arleigh A. Burke, chief of naval operations, gave the commencement ad­dress. . . . Tom Crehan, Karl Martersteck, Gerald Massey and Pat McCarten received the annual "Dome" awards as outstanding seniors. . . . Robert Duffy, Howard Hall Senator, introduced a resolution to the Student Senate that would allow students to wear Bermuda shorts on the golf course. The motion passed, but the University administration had the final say: No. 
1961 The school year started with the false promise of St. Mary's students taking classes at Notre Dame. Five girls had registered for an English class on campus. The plan was vetoed, however. The Scholastic editorialized: "The feminine point of view is often a very interesting one, as we all well know—and thought it may at times lack logical precision, psychologists are quick to point to their gift of intuition as more than adequate compen­sation." The male chauvinist student writer went on to complain that the addition of women in great numbers would encourage "frill courses" as well as create "addi­tional distractions." . . . John Keegan was Student Body President. One of his last official acts was to urge the Student Senate to pass a resolution asking the ND stu­dents to boycott a South Bend tavern which refused to serve black students. . . . Homecoming queen was Kathy Sharp, who was escorted by Art Barille. They also got use of a car for the weekend, but it was chauffeured. . . . Just before the Thanksgiving recess—and after the Notre Dame football team had lost eight straight games— students demonstrated in front of Corby Hall, chanting "Burn the books!" among other things. The team won its final game of the season, knocking off powerful Southern Cal. . . . Vice Admiral Hyman C .Rickover was named Patriot of the Year. . . . John F. Kennedy was awarded the Laetare Medal. . . . Initial planning began to establish training at ND for Peace Corps volunteers. . . . Dag Hammarskjold, secretary general of the United Nations, was scheduled to speak at commencement but had to cancel at the last minute. Sarge Shriver, director of the Peace Corps, took his place. 
1966 Coexchange between ND and SMC students finally began. As a rather symbolic gesture, the road between the two campuses was paved. . . . The College of Science cele­brated its 100th anniversary, as did the Scholastic. . . . Zykmunt Kucharczuk, also known as Ziggy, retired as manager of the South Dining Hall after 36 years on the job as ND's culinary expert. . . . The Center for Con­tinuing Education was under construction. . . . Irish foot­ballers "remembered" and avenged their only loss in the 
1964 season by defeating Southern Cal. . . . Charlie Callahan retired after 20 years as sports information director to take a similar post with the Miami Dolphins. . . . The conservative nature of Notre Dame students was typified in two incidents: about a dozen students gave a "haircut" to a fellow student they thought wore his hair too long and the Young Republicans sent a petition to Washington with 3,100 signatures supporting U.S. in­volvement in Vietnam. . . . Rev. Joe Simons, the new dean of students, allowed seniors to stay out until 2 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights. 
NOTRE DAME'S NEW BREED 
Fr. Hesburgh talks about today's Notre Dame student. 
The following is an edited ver­optimistic; They're a kind of sion of a conversation between new breed and I look forward the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh to hearing a good deal about CSC, University president, and them in the years to come. newsman Frank Reynolds on the American Broadcasting Com­Why are they a new breed? pany's program, "Directions." Well, they've been sensitized to a The interview occurred in May. lot of things that I don't think I 
was that much sensitized to 
Are you generally optimistic when I graduated from here a about these young men who are long time ago. They, in a sense, leaving Notre Dame now? Yes, bear more of the world's burdens I'm really more optimistic than I and problems and moral crises should be, but I'm generally very on their shoulders in a way that 
graduates of the past—if they go back 10 or 20 years—^really didn't. 
They've had different con­cerns here, too, haven't they, than those of 10 or 15 years ago? That's right. I remember going through college in the '30's. I heard practically noth­ing about Asia or Latin America or poverty. There wasn't a single black student in school at that time. None on the faculty. We didn't know what the word "Chicano" meant, although it existed at that time. Today it's a whole different ball game. These 
youngsters live in a dififerent kind of world, they have a different kind of concern. They've been morally sen­sitized to a degree that is very good if they continue to be morally sen­sitized and do something about it. If I could oversimplify a little bit, I'd almost have a new definition for what I hope for graduates from this university: that is that they not only be compassionate regarding the plight of everybody in difficulty through poverty, through injustice or through underdevelopment or whatever, but they be very competent to do some­thing about it. The problem you get into today is that you've got a lot of compassionate people running around but they're not competent to do some­thing about it. If you get the two of those together, competence, which per­tains to the head, and compassion, which pertains to the heart, then you've got a good graduate. 
Do you think they're opttmistic about their ability to influence flie country, to bring about change? Well, I'm not sure they're as opti­mistic as I am. Like all young men, hope runs high and idealism runs high, and they haven't really had much of life's acid on them. They have to really come up against those great obstacles, social progress and social change. Then I think they may be a little more realistic. I hope they don't lose their idealism in the process or get cynical. That would be the worst thing of all. 
They of course will find that per­haps their overall view may seem to be in conflict with their own personal well-being. At times. But this is the first generation I've known that is willing to do something about their idealism even to the extent of down­ward mobility socially and econom­ically .... 
I've had two or three youngsters stand in this very office since the last week or so, and just say "Look, I've just come to the conclusion that vio­lence doesn't solve anything, war doesn't solve anything. I'm not going in the Army or go in the service and kill people. Now, if I've got to go to jail, I'll go to jail." 
Now I find it hard to believe, see myself at their age in that circum­stance, graduating from the univer­sity, being willing to go to jail be­cause of the way I feel about some­thing like this. 
Are the young Catholic men to­day, products of a Catholic university such as this, are they as religious in the sense of their adherence to insti­tutionalized religion? I'd honestly have to say no. Again, a lot swings on what you call religion, but you qualified it by saying, in the institu­tional sense, which I would imagine means going to church as often as they did in the past.... In one sense, this generation seems to be against institutions. They feel that institu­tions somehow have not served as a good enough purpose, or haven't done their task as they should. I guess that begins with government to some extent. Many of them are anti-government in some senses. Some are against church as institution. Some of them are really against their fam­ilies as institutions or their neighbor­hoods or the clubs that their folks go to and that sort of thing. 
It's an oversimplification of a tough philosophical question about what is the role of institutions in a person's life. I think if you were to cancel out the whole government or the whole church and everything else tomorrow morning, you'd start reinstitutionalizing them the next day. Because institutions are kinds of structures that we all lean against They glue society together and they conimunalize, if you will, the kind of actions we have to take, whether in worship or in governing or in raising a family. But the difiScuIt part for these youngsters is that they like to think they're being motivated by some interior fine force — which I'm in favor of incidentally—^which they call love and you might call divine grace or something else. And some of them are very curious in their reaction. If you say to them, for ex­ample, you've got to go to Mass on Sunday, they may go Monday, Tues­day, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday, but not on Sunday. They want to feel they're going, not because they were told to go but be­cause they want to go. What they're really saying is that they don't want to just go to church for the sake of going to church, because it's the thing you ought to do; they want to go to church to do something, they want to do something together, they want to do it as a group. They want it to represent a common concern, a common prayer, not some souped-up prayer that comes out of some per­son's mind, be it mine or anybody else's. 
Is the church responding to this properly do you believe? The church is like every institution, it's just ter­ribly hard to keep up with this con­stant flow of change and new ideas ... . There are two concepts here: One is renewal and the other is re­form. Now renewal is a thing of the spirit, it's the thing that people renew their lives, institutions in a sense re­new their spirit, and this grew very fast on the church during the Coun­cil and following the Council. It was like the Spirit was really working overtime in the church and we were responding and a lot of new things were coming up, new ideas, new concepts, new dedication. But the poor old institution, it's something solid, steady, and it's been around for thousands and thousands of years and it^has'to reform its structures, it has to reform its procedures, its law, its self-perception. And that's a lot harder than the instantaneous re­newal of the spirit. 
I remember as a boy all the no­venas and so forth. You'd count all the Hail Mary's, ten thousand Hail Mary's, for the poor children of Africa or the starving children of India and it was almost like it was quantitative rather than qualitative. That is com­pletely gone. It's a curious thing, but anything at all quantitative, you can forget it as far as these youngsters are concerned. It isn't that they don't yearn for religion. The curious thing is that at a time when they're turn­ing away from institutions, or at least getting turned off by institutions, they are turning to religion. That's why I say you've got to qualify what you mean by religion. I would guess that .. . as I sit here and read some of the things they write nowadays. 
there's a kind of spiritual perception, there's kind of a deep-seated Chris­tianity. The way they would criticize me in my own job here .. . they'll say, "Are you really running a Christian institution?" How can you do this and this when this is a Christian in­stitution? They know they've got me dead to rights, because some of the things that we have done probably weren't very Christian, and their con­cerns are pretty much on target. 
I remember a quote from one of your speeches, "The events of the past 15 years have created in this nation a truly new generation of young people who fully believe that the conscience of the nation can be moved to do good without undue delay and years of waiting." Do you think they really believe that? They are believing it less than they did. I'd say a year ago they believed it more than they do now. But I'm hoping that during the next year, by really activating this 18-year-old vote, by saying, now if you're really serious about this get yourselves registered and vote, and vote for people who come through to you as being con­cerned about the top priorities of this nation, what the priorities should be, and my guess is that this is going to make an enormous difference. 
I wonder if they'll find any heroes among the . . . Well, this is a real problem. I was talking to a lady re­porter yesterday and she asked me, "Who are your heroes?" and she caught me flat-footed. I started to think and I said, "Living or dead?" And she said, "Well, if you've got to resort to dead ones, okay, but who are the living ones?" And I said, "I think I have to say I don't have any." 
And the students feel the same, way? We're living in the age of the anti-hero of course, but I believe the students definitely need a few heroes. You can live without them, but it's better to have a few. 
On the subject of heroes and per­sonalities, how do your students feel about the Berrigans? They would be heroes of a sort. I don't think stu­dents would necessarily identify com­pletely with all that the Berrigans do and their whole style of life, but I would say the great majority would have deep sympathy for them. The great majority would think they are being persecuted a little bit beyond what is deserved, and I would say even 
those who might philosophically dif­
fer from the Berrigans, at least as far 
as their methods of protest, would 
be sympathetic to them. 
Someone asked me yesterday, are you turning out a thousand Berrigans here at Notre Dame? I said, I don't think so. I'm not sure the world could stand a thousand Berrigans, but it sure needs a few, and there are a number of our youngsters that would identify very closely with them. 
The war has certainly been a major cause of the disenchantment of the young people of the country with the government. How serious do you assess our domestic wounds? ... . The country has a great resil­iency and it responds beautifully to great leadership and I would think what the country needs at this point is some great inspiring kind of lead­ership. Where it's going to come from, 1 don't know. I'm not knocking the President because leadership re­quires followership and some of the things you're going to have to lead on are not very popular, like the whole civil rights area. 
Every time we come out with a statement from the Civil Rights Commission about better housing or better integrated schools or doing something about ghettoes or more employment, T can be absolutely sure that I'm going to get a bushel basket full of hate mail the next day. And I suppose you could multiply that by ten thousand as far as the Presi­dent is concerned. 
But, we've got to get through to the total American people the ideals that this country stands for. There's no question we've been terribly polarized, even within groups that are normally close together. To illustrate this, in the spring of the year, all of us at Notre Dame go around the alumni circuit. And I have found this past year that it's very difficult to talk about the things that I think are sig­nificant in the world today. These are things like war and peace, human rights, poverty, and welfare. It's diffi­cult to talk about them without polar­izing the group. Because the country at large is so polarized about many of these things. Polarization starts sifting down into groups that are normally pretty homogeneous like a Notre Dame alumni group. 
On the other hand, I find that if you can put it in ideal enough terms, and if you can show that you can't really be against justice, and you 

can't really be against peace, and you can't really be against doing things that reflect on the sanctity of human life and the dignity of man, that somehow people can be lifted out of their prejudices and brought together in a common endeavor. But that's an act of leadership that is desperately needed at this point. 
I wonder how today's students will be when they have responsibility' a few years from now, I mean responsi­bility for the schools and for other social ... . I often kid them and I say I hope you don't grow up and become fat-headed like some of your elders who are not that idealistic, who per­haps are cynical. I think you'll have to say, if you have studied human nature, that some of them are going to go that road too. But I would hope that enough of them keep this kind of pristine purity of soul, or this clear commitment to what is right and just—that they put that strain into our society in the years ahead. 
Do you find when you go around the country that somehow you're con­sidered a spokesman for the bomb throwers and the radicals? Well, if you say to the country, there's a very simple way of getting law and order: work for justice, because justice is the price of law and order. You can't get justice without law and order. I think the reason you have disorder in so­ciety is that people just get frustrated. They say there's no other way of get­ting people's attention. Nothing hap­pens. And the worst thing a society can do is to put a price on violence. If every time people are violent then you get action, the way to get action is to be violent. Now 1 don't believe in violence as a means of getting ac­tion, but I'd say that if you push peo­ple to that as a last alternative, that's what you get. The way to avoid that kind of attention-getting device is to have people convinced that you're working for justice. 
You take in the university, just to give you a quick example. I've been fairly tough around here about say­ing we want law and order and we don't want people doing goofy things and disturbing the rationality and the civility that have to characterize the university. But, I'm perfectly willing to say that every good idea that you have as students, I'm for it. I'll do everything I can to achieve it. For every bit of justice that you want to achieve in this University and in the society surrounding us, I'll work as hard as you are. Now if they see that you really mean that, they'll take any­thing you say on law and order be­cause they see that you need law and order to achieve that kind of goal. 
You mentioned sometimes you run info a little difficult}' traveling around talking to alumni groups, people who are a bit older than the students here at Notre Dame. It's got to be a t>vo­way street, this generation-gap bridg­ing if we're going to do it. Does the self-righteousness of the students, or the apparent self-righteousness some­times turn you off? Well, I suppose I try a little harder to understand them because I've spent my life liv­ing with students. My whole adult life has been in the University. I grant you. there is a certain self-righteousness. There's a certain na­ivete, there are certain simplistic ap­proaches to very tough problems that are not going to be answered easily. That's why I've tried to push within our own educational system for them getting out into the com­munity. It gives them a dimension of realism they don't get just being in a classroom. For example, I think that when a thousand of our students go downtown to tutor, they find out that teaching isn't as easy as it looks. They may have griped about bad teaching. When they try to do it themselves, it's not quite as easy. In the summer many of our youngsters go out and go into social action programs. They do a lot of work in Latin America and Mexico and down along the border. They build houses, do manual labor of various kinds, try to help a community upgrade itself through co­operatives. They learn that very im­portant lesson: No social progress comes easily and that you can't sit in the room and run a revolution. You've got to—if you want to revo­lutionize people's thoughts—spend a long time reasoning with them. . . . 
If we could ever get these two generations working together (and that's what I'm hoping the political process and the early vote will do, be­cause they'll have to work with can­didates) they'll have to work in the tough part of the political process— the ringing of doorbells and the stuff­ing of envelopes and that sort of thing. They won't all be speech writ­ers. When they do that tough work and find out how good it is to get a good man elected, or how difficult it is to get people just to get out and vote . . . then I think we'll get a better realism. They'll begin to have a little more respect for the expertise of their elders, for the hard-thinking of people who really know a field and have worked in it, who bear all the scars and have had the acid of life on them, and who now are much more realistic without having lost their ideals. 
Do you ever suggest to the people who complain to you about the youth of America, how bad it would be if they weren't behaving as they are now? Suppose they were apathetic, which they were not too many years ago? Every country needs a little burr under the saddle, and one thing is very revealing. We brought the presi­dents of about a hundred of our alumni clubs here and they lived in the residence halls with the students. Many of them came here with much criticism about the University — it was too permissive, it was too open. . . . After being here a week, liv­ing in the residence halls with the students, they passed a unanimous vote of support for the students, the faculty, and for the administration even. If somehow we can keep this conversation going between young and old, realizing that the young have some inspiration, some drive, some generosity, some enthusiasm to put into the older society and that the older society has all kinds of realism and tough expertise and hard work to put in with them, to join with these ideals. Then we get the country pull­ing together. That's what we need. 
LOOK WHAT THEVUE DOW 
THE OLD FIELDHOUSE IS NOW AN ARTS CENTER. 
•y-i-irrjr.rv'-TTciy'Tr- v* c--'T\:"=« "T^s- -KVXi-j.pci'r^siip^tKi: 
i 

m 
m
1 
'Si 
r#­
••# 
i 

•/ir*' 
v.»1 

BY MIKE GEORGE '72 
•.-i:7T" •:^i>E£r^T:-7^ i 
She is called many things. The Grand Old Lady, some of the alumni call her. Obsolete, University officials call her —now that the Athletic and Convo­cation Center is in use. Unusable, hazardous and unsightly is what the architects call her. Home is what the artists call her. 
The Fieldhouse is what the Notre Dame map calls her. She was sched­uled to be erased from that map in the summer of 1969, but just before the wreckers moved in. Dr. Thomas Fern, chairman of the art depart­ment, asked for a reprieve, explaining that the Fieldhouse would make a roomy home for his artists who were outgrowing their cramped quarters in O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
A group of students organized the University Arts Council and allied themselves with the art department to campaign to save the Fieldhouse. The Vice Presidents' Council issued an eleventh-hour reprieve, saying the artists may use the building temporar­ily, but not indefinitely. 
The old Fieldhouse was once again hostess to a wide range of student activities but the change must have been a shock for the old girl as well as for countless alumni who remem­bered her former glor>'. The issue room where the venerable equipment manager. Jack McAllister, used to de­liver his homespun philosophy to generations of athletes came to be known only as the poetry reading room. Instead of "Mac's" voice ring­ing through the air a quieter voice commands attention in a Sunday afternoon poetr>' reading. Most of the people who gather there don't even recognize Mac's name. In the boxing gym where Dominick Napolitano used to train the boxers for his Bengal Bouts, there's another kind of coach­ing going on. The gym is now a forest of easels where undergraduate artists practice their strokes under the super­vision of Rev. James Flanigan CSC. And in the original football locker room, where the victories that brought Notre Dame her early fame were celebrated, there are now art exhibits. The walls have been painted white and there isn't even the old smell of sweat that marked this as a room where heroes stood. 
There are even more incongruous changes. In the room where her former tenants took foot baths there is a candlemaking studio. The visitors' locker room where many a vanquished foe hung his head has been taken over by the Program in Nonviolence. It is being turned into a teahouse. Under the north stands was the gym where the proud tradition of the fenc­ing team was launched by a coach who was a political exile from Mexico during his stay at Notre Dame. Now the graduate students who have their studios in the old gym consider the room theirs. The handball courts on the other side of the arena where Rev. Thomas Brennan CSC used to keep his game sharp are now the studio of another kind of artist who is not dis­turbed that the wooden floor is buckling. 
But those who know the Grand Old Lady best couldn't really be surprised at this latest change. This is only the most recent face-lifting that she has gone through. The old-timers can point out the changes to you: here a wall was torn down, there a stairway was removed. If you look closely at any of her walls you can usually detect the scars of some remodeling or repair. The truth is that the Field-house lived in layers of time. One section of the building led at least three different lives even before the artists took over. First it was a public washroom; then a door was broken through one wall and it became a hall­way; finally a side wall was removed, the door sealed and the equipment room expanded into it. It is not un­common for one old-timer to tell you that one room was the varsity basketball gym while a second tells you that it was a boxing gym and yet a third says that here the freshman basketball team practiced. They are all right but they are all of different generations with different memories of how the Grand Old Lady looked when they knew her. 
In this new life the Fieldhouse has been divided between the Arts Coun­cil and the art department. The west end of the building, the part that was built in 1898, is administered by the Council for students engaged in non­credit projects including drawing, painting, sculpture, poetry, music and drama. The place is kept open late into the night to conform with the free time of most students. Almost any time you go over there now you can find some kind of activity going on. The arena section (added in 1925) is run by the art department and under the north stands are studios for many of the department's faculty members. 
Even for all the activity that the arts have brought to the Fieldhouse, the impression that you get from a tour of the building is that it is sparsely used. The reason is that much of the space has not been adapted for other than athletic uses. The largest part of the building is still the mammoth enclosure around the dirt track and the basketball court. The cavernous size makes this main room too large to work with in one piece so its development must wait until funds are available to partition it. Over the last winter the cavern 
Agony and ecstacy still echo in the old fieJdhoiise. Once its inhabitants were men like Dominick Napolitano (top, center), who taught that to endure pain was to discover one's self. And now —in their own way—so do the artists struggle for the message. 
was the birthplace of a man made of Indiana limestone. The gigantic sculp­ture was done by Brother Joseph Faul who worked on it right where the band used to march in for pep rallies. Except for a pile of limestone chips, the remains of the departed giant, which obstructs the track at one point, the arena is unchanged from its athletic days. Immediate plans for the area call for a "Theatre in the Round" on the old basketball court The Arts Council is currently having a stage built for this purpose. But more am­bitious uses than these are being held up by the controversy swirling around the fiiture of the Fieldhouse itself. 
During the campaign to save the building a renovation plan was drawn up which would have cost approximately SI.5 million to imple­ment. At the time she was declared structurally sound and well able to endure yet another face-lifting. But as the Arts Council began an effort to raise the money, the Indiana Admin­istrative Building Council inspected the building and declared that exten­sive repair work would be required to bring the building into line with the state building codes. 
The University asked EUerbe Archi­tects to develop a report on the feasi­bility of renovating the Fieldhouse to make it a permanent arts center within the code specifications. Their report, released in April of 1970, de­clared that the total cost of redevelop­ment would exceed the cost of a new building of comparable size. Further, they suggested that a remodelled Fieldhouse could be expected to have a useful life of only 20 years as opposed to a new building's life ex­pectancy of 50 years. Their conclusion was that the Old Fieldhouse had ". . . long since outlived its usefulness and should be removed to allow space for development of functional, attrac­tive structures in keeping with the University's long-range program." 
Predictably, the arts department sees it differently. Even the old Field-house is preferable in their eyes to a new building that they know would not be built for many years to come. Besides, as Dr. Fern points out, "an artist could never really be happy in a new building." Those who work in the building now seem to love it just as much as those who used her before. They talk nebulously about the "at­mosphere" and the "sense of freedom" that working in the old, high-ceilinged rooms gives to them. 
The resolution of the controversy probably won't come in the near fu­ture unless the Indiana Administrative Building Council pushes the Univer­sity to make extensive repairs or tear down the building. The recognized need for a home for the arts holds the destruction in abeyance, but the scar­city of funds makes remodeling out of the question in the near future. The building of a new arts center is not yet a part of even the very long-range goals of the University. At least some members of the Administration hope that new space allotments following the merger vnth Saint Mary's will alleviate the space shortage for the arts. Some people on both campuses see an eventual shift of the art de­partment from the Notre Dame com­plex to the Saint Mary's complex. If this were to take place the Old Fieldhouse could be torn down with­out the pangs of conscience and the charges of indifference to the arts that would surtound such a move at the present time. But even if space is not found at Saint Mary's there seems to be little enthusiasm in the higher ranks for keeping the present struc­ture, much less investing large sums of money in its renovation. 
Meanwhile the Grand Old Lady continues to deteriorate at an accel­erated rate that makes it difficult for her to maintain her old dignity. Her biggest enemy in recent years has been water. Her gutter and downspout sys­tem is so damaged as to be practically useless. Water stays on the wooden roof where it eventually rots through. On any rainy day the roof leaks in several places and there are usually large sheets of plastic set out to catch the rain water before it damages the interior. It is this roof and the danger of its collapse that most worries the Building Council and which may eventually force the Fieldhouse's de­struction. But the weather has also taken its toll on the outside walls of the building. The architects report that while the bricks are sound, the mortar between them is not. Anyone can brush some of the sand-like mortar from between the bricks with a stroke of the finger. Since these are load-bearing walls, the danger of the build­ing's collapse is increased. Like any old lady, the Fieldhouse has become brittle and somewhat frail. In addi­tion, her mechanical vitality is ques­tionable. The plumbing, electrical, and heating systems would all need re­placement. 
But though she leaks, shivers, and begins to crumble at the edges one has to be reminded now and again that this is where the proud athletic tradition that first established the fame of Notre Dame, the tradition that made the Athletic and Convocation Center necessary, all got its start. And feeble though she is this is the building that took in the neglected arts when no one else would have them. To those who took the time to know her well, she will always be the Grand Old Lady. 
Although Mac McCallister {top, left) is retired as equipment manager at ND, he's still able to summon that withering look given to freshman and varsity men alike who dared to ask for an extra t-shirt. On the other hand, perhaps he is a bit perplexed about the fact that his old office is now the poetry reading room. 
w^^mxmm'm 
Nominations. Pieasel 
by Robert A. Erkins, President, 
Notre Dame Alumni Board 

Preliminary nominations to the Alum­ni Board are being accepted now. Each year at this time nominating forms are sent to the former mem­bers of the Alumni Board, the Alumni Senate, Class Secretaries, and Founda­tion City Chairmen. However, any alumnus may make a nomination if he so desires. The Alumni Board has made remarkable strides over the years. Its accomplishments reflect an admirable history of alumni interest and involvement, ranging from the creation of the first endowment fund in the '20s to the establishment of the Placement Bureau, Admissions Office Schools Committees, The An­nual Fund, National Alumni Office, the AnJMNUS, the Foundation Office and program, the Alumni Senate, Uni­versal Notre Dame Night, and much more. 
The Board's most recent history in­dicates an even greater prestige and 
Almni Uniticotion 

by James Cooney, Executive Director, Notre Dame Alumni Assoc. 
One of the priority considerations be­fore the Notre Dame Alumni Board and Senate this fall will be the im­plications for the Alumni Association of the unification agreement Since the "Key Biscayne" announcement commiting the institutions to unify, numerous conversations have been held between members of the Saint Mary's College and Notre Dame Alumni Office staffs. Personnel in the SMC Alumnae ofiBces are Miss Helen 
involvement. The president of the As­
sociation serves on the Board of 
Trustees during the year of his tenure. 
Indeed, a number of former Alumni 
Board members have become full-
term members of the University's gov­
erning body. The Board was repre­
sented on the University Curriculum 
Revision Committee as well. Help 
maintain this record of growing part­
nership with Notre Dame. 

The Alumni Board is composed of seventeen members, five elected each year for three-year terms, one addi­tional younger alumnus (who shall have graduated within the past five years, or since 1967) for a one-year term, and the immediate past presi­dent The five who are elected for three-year terms represent five of the fifteen regions of the country. This year the regions up for representation are: Region 2 (Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, North Dakota, South Da­kota, Nebraska, Utah, Colorado and Kansas except Kansas City); Region 5 (Iowa and Missouri); Region 11 (Maine, New Hampshire, Rhode Is­land, Massachusetts, Vermont and Connecticut); Region 12 (Eastern 
Carroll '26, Executive Director, her assistant, Mrs. Diane Davis '69, and Mrs. Kate Dooley '28, Courier editor. Those of us from ND have been im­mensely impressed with their exper­tise and devotion to SMC. We look forward to working with them. 
The SMC Alumnae Association lists about 9,000 members, approxi­mately 5,000 of whom are four-year undergraduate alumnae. Estimates of SMC alumnae married to ND men range from 30 to 50 per cent There are 53 SMC Alumnae Clubs in the country, 51 of which coincide with ND Clubs. Matrimony, of course, isn't the only bond between ND men 
Pennsylvania, Maryland, District of 
Columbia, West Virginia, Virginia and 
Delaware), and Region 15 (North 
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and 
Florida). 
Nominations may be made for per­

sons residing outside of these regions 
since nominations are cumulative and 
will be considered when those regions 
are eligible. Alumni wishing to make 
nominations should write the Alumni 
Ofiice for nominating forms. 
The special category for represen­tation by an alumnus who shall have graduated within the past five years was instituted by your Board last January in order to assure voice on the Board by this large and youth­ful segment of the alumni body. Since those who have graduated re­cently are not generally as visible or well-settled as older alumni, it was felt a special opportunity should be created for them to participate in the affairs of the Association. 
Make your nominations now. A final slate of twelve will be arranged by the Board for approval at its Octo­ber meeting. The ballot will be dis­seminated in November. 
and SMC women. Generations of graduates of both schools have en­joyed warm friendships and mutual interests. 
Three major options appear to be available to the Associations . . . continue separate and autonomous operation; function as separate but coordinated organizations; or, merge. Each option will be carefully consid­ered by the governing bodies of both organizations. Reaction from the membership will help guide the proper decisions. You are cordially invited to express your opinions on the mat­ter to your Alumni Board represen­tative, or directly to this office. 
Thomas E. Cassidy '37, M.A. '38, member of the faculty 1946-52 and 
Old Faees-New Places 

prefect in Walsh Hall 1946-49, is as­
sistant professor of English at South-em Illinois University, Carbondale, and last December was named assist­ant to the chancellor, for evaluation of instruction. At the time of his ap­pointment, he was described as "prob­ably hands-down the most popular prof at SIU." In 1964 he was voted just that by the students there and chosen for a $1,000 "Great Teacher" award by the seniors and alumni. 
The university news service tells the story well: "Cassidy loves to teach, and undergraduates are his pride and joy. His gift for remembering stu­dents' names and faces is uncanny, but not so surprising when you under­stand that Tom Cassidy really feels he knows every one of the thousands he has taught over a dozen years at SIU. Letters from students are as routine and heartfelt as the smiles, hellos and handshakes he dispenses to one and all, all the time. He comes on as a ton of warmth, concern and learn­ing inside a small, almost fragile-look­ing package. 
"When he isn't teaching, he's acting as counselor, tutor, adviser, father-figure and general eminence for 125 young men of the SIU dormitory where he is teacher-in-residence. Chewing outs are rare, but if the shoe fits, he can throw it." 
In his new task of searching out the best teachers at SIU and seeing that they are rewarded with salary in­creases and promotions, Cassidy in­tends to depend most heavily on the judgments and evaluations of students themselves. "They will be the main pipeline," he says. Here are some of his views on students and teaching: 
—You need to be committed to the art of teaching. You've got to understand students on their own terms. You begin with knowing your stuff and then you relate to the students. Accept their im­portance and assume good will on both sides. 
—You can sense in a week what kind of class you've got—^then you pace things accordingly. I never teach a course the same way. Stu­dents have more eftect on the kind of teaching they get than they re­alize. 
—^I'm all for the student-teacher gap. Students want to respect teach­ers as teachers, not as buddies. Anyone who believes glad-handing and palship are the answer is deny­ing his own function. He's in need of a teacher himself. 
In the four years before he returned to Notre Dame to teach in 1946, Cassidy was busy fighting World War II, enlisting as a private and coming out as a major. He took part in the Normandy invasion, fought all the way with the Third Armored Division, and was the Division's top contact man with the French and Belgian under­ground resistance. He did it all so well that he received two Bronze Stars, the Croix de Guerre, Belgium's Order of Leopold and a British dec­oration. 
The SIU news release concludes: "Some teachers say trying to teach undergraduates these days—those big classes, those cries for relevance—^is like trying to fight a war. Don't tell it to Tom Cassidy." 
Rev. John Wilson CSC 
BoxD 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

Tom Cassidy stands in the midst of student discussion on the Southern Illinois University campus in Carbondale. 
50-YEAR CLUB 

The 1971 Reunion is privileged to induct the Golden Jubilee Class of 1921 as freshman members into the 50-Year Club. As long as we have ND men like ALBERT A. KUHLE '15, GROVER C. MILLER '16, DAN E. HILGARTNER '17, JAMES H. RYAN "20, and now RAY J. SCHUBMEHL '21 as secretaries reporting class news, the 50-Year Club will become larger and permanent 
Rev. CHARLES WILLIAMS '18 sug­gested wives be invited to reunions, a firsL MAX KAZUS '18 suggested a 50-Year diploma, a first CHARLIE CALL '18, regretfully no longer with us, a class coat, a first Schubmehl '21 suggested a 50-Year Club patch, a first We will be getting 'em. 
If you think there is anything that can or should be done to make your visit more enjoyable I know ND would be pleased to hear your suggestions. 
Now a big first goes to Alumni Secretaiy JAMES D. COONEY '59. His first year in oflice, Jim founded the 50-Year Club. Only real old timers know what it was like to return to campus at reunion times after their Golden Jubilee Reunion. Jim Cooney has changed this and has made us all V.U.'s, with ND having the red carpet and big welcome out for the 50-Year Club members and every year a reunion year. So we say welcome to you of the Golden Jubilee Class of 1921. Hope to see you all here next year to welcome and induct the Class of 1922 into the 50-Year Club. 
Above report was made at Class Dinner. 
"Ole Timers" present were: WILLIAM 
G. FERSTEL '00, B.S. Com., and Mrs.; LADISLAUS A. KOLUPA '04; JOSEPH 
E. POULIN '04; Rev. CHARLES DOREMUS CSC '06; Rev. CORNELIUS 
J. HAGERTY CSC '06; Rev. PETER HEBERT CSC '10; STEPHEN H. HERR '10; LEO ZGODZINSKI '14; WILLIAM 
M. CARROLL '15 and Mrs.; EDWARD RIELY '15; PATRICK MALONEY '16 and Mrs.; GROVER MILLER '16; WILLIAM GRADY '17 and Mrs.; Dr. D. M. NIGRO 
•17;
 LEO J. VOGEL '17; LAWRENCE 


J.
 WELCH '17; GEORGE B. WAAGE '18; WILLIAM J. ANDRES '18; Rev. CHARLES J. WILLIAMS '18; GEORGE HALLER '19; ROBERT HUBER '19; HUGH T. LAVERY '19; RICHARD WHITE '19; LEONARD CALL 70 and Mrs.; PAUL R. CONAGHAN '20; RICHARD LESLIE 70 and Mrs.; HARRY NESIER '20; JAMES H. RYAN 70; JAMES TRANT 70 and Mrs. and a large turnout of " 71ers." (See Class Columns.) All of 'em looking great and to talk with 'em is part of your reward plus satisfaction for attending what Rev. THEODORE M. HESBURGH CSC, President, in his address called us the living Notre Dame family. May we all have 


the good fortime to retiun for the graduated from ND in 1904, obtaining an 1972 reunion. LL.B. degree. A daughter, Ursuline Sister Jeanne Marie, is chairman of the music 
Birthday greetings: Aug. 2, CHARLES department of Ursuline College. 

REUSS, 2502 Kensington Blvd., Fort 

Wayne, Ind. 46805; Sept 3, JOHN M. He also leaves his widow; two sons WILSON EE'll, 28 Rowayton Ave., JAMES A. Jr. '37, Richard; three daughters; Rowayton, Conn. 06853; Aug. 10, 17 grandchildren and three great-grand­GEORGE L. LAMB, Michigan, N.D. children. 
58259; Aug. 23, BERNARD V. HABERER JAMES F. REDDING '10 died April 23, Ph.B.'17, 200 Houston St, Ft Worth, 1970, and was buried in El Paso, Texas. He Tex. 76102; Aug. 12, C. W. BADER received his early education in New York S.Com.'19, 2211 W. 64th Place, Gaiy, and Pennsylvania schools and finished at 
Ind. 46410; Aug. 17, GERALD J. CRAUGH St Michael's College, Toronto. Upon LL.B.71, 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, graduation from ND he entered the New York, N.Y. 10005. newspaper field as a reporter for the El Paso 
Herald. In July 1917 he enlisted in the George B. Waage U.S. Army and trained at F t Bliss, Tex., 3305 Wri^twood Ave. and served overseas until 1918 and returned Chicago, lU. 60647 as one of Gen. Pershing's Fifty in the Third 
Liberty Loan Drive. After discharge he became associated with the Copper and '15 MANY MOVE ON Brass Research Co., in New York City. He retired in 1958 and returned to El Paso to It seems that more than the usual number make his home. He is survived by one 
of alumni or members of their families brother, Edward J. Redding, a nephew and have gone to their reward since I prepared several cousins. 
my notes for the last issue. Of course, JOHN J. BRISLIN, LL.B. '11 died I suppose, this is to be expected since Dec. 19, 1969. He was a member of the these men were graduated from ND Allegheny Bar Assn. and practiced law in 
some 55, 60 and 65 years ago. Shadyside, Pa., for more than 56 years 
JAMES ALLEN DUBBS '06 died before retiring in 1967. He was a lieutenant Dec. 4. He was associated with the Great in the 80th Division during WW I. Survivors Lakes Dredge and Dock Co. all his adult include his widow; a son, John J. Jr., a life, starting in Chicago and a year dau^ter, Jane F. and two sisters. The later he was transferred to the Cleveland requiem Mass was at Sacred Heart Church, division where he became vice president East Liberty, Pa. and division manager. Although he retired 
The delay in making this announcement is actively from the company in 1954, he regretted but the information did not reach remained on the board of directors for me imtil recently. In this connection it is another 12 years. 
suggested that ND Clubs, relatives and Classmates were WILLIAM P. FEELEY friends of deceased alumni send word as and FRANK GUSHING of the Great Lakes soon as possible to JAMES D. COONEY, 
Dredge and Dock Co. It will be recalled executive director of the Alumni Association that Frank Gushing donated the Engi­at the University. As a proper remembrance, neering Building to the University. a Mass will be said for the deceased. JOHN W. DUBBS, brother of James, Subsequently a notice of the death will 
FALL CLASS REUNIONS 
PURDUE at Lafayette—Sept. 25 
1928—Biannual '28 Party, at Joe Doran's 
MICHIGAN STATE—Oct. 2 
1928—Center for Continuing Education 
1929—Reunion area, Athletic & Convocation Center 
1966—Reunion area. Athletic & Convocation Center 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA—Oct. 23 
1930—^To be announced. 

1931—Reunion area. Athletic & Convocation Center 
1949—Reunion area, Athletic & Convocation Center 
1952—Mahogany Room, Morris Inn 
1953—^To be announced. 

To arrange reunions contact the Notre Dame 
Alumni Association, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
appear in the ALUMNUS in a class secretary's column as is being done in this case. Friends at ND and classmates will be interested to get some information about the deceased and will no doubt wish to remember him in their prayers. 
JOHN VINCENT MCCARTHY LitB. '14 and LL.B. '14 died March 31. He pracUced law in the Elgin, III., area for 50 years before retiring and was associated with his brother Frank. I recall him best as having been associated in the office of the director of studies at Notre Dame. He served with the U.S. Army as a second lieutenant during World War I. Surviving are his widow, Ethel, one son Atty. Richard C. McCarthy of Elgin; one daughter, Mrs. Patricia Wells of Long Beach, CaUf., and two grandchildren. Mrs. McCarthy resides at 400 Mountain St., Elgin 60120. 
HAROLD H. MUNGER, B.Arch. '15 died Nov. 16, 1970. As an architect for 55 years he had a most enviable career. He attended ND under an athletic scholarship, playing football with Knute Rockne and Charles "Gus" Dorais. He served in WW I and was the first commander of the Perrysburg Post, American Legion. He was a member of St. Rose Church and its Holy Name Society. 
He and his associates designed more than 150 area school buildings. His most notable buildings included the National American Legion headquarters, Washington, D.C., Toledo State Hospital, the new Notre Dame Academy, seven buildings at Bowling Green State U., the Way Library and mum'cipal buildings and three school buildings in Perrysburg. At the time of his death, construction had started on the 
U. of Toledo library, which his firm had designed. 
He was an outstanding man in many circles; state, city and local communities, and held very responsible positions in all of them. He was past president of the Ohio Association of Football Officials. He twice was president of the Toledo Chapter, American Institute of Architects and authored numerous articles in professional journals. He is listed in "Who's Who in America." He was honored with a 1965 recognition dinner by the Toledo Chapter, AIA. He was awarded an honorary fellow­ship in the American Institute of Architects in 1951, and was honored as "Man of the Year" in 1956 by ND. I regret the space will not permit further enumerating the accomplishments of this fine and distin­guished son of ND. 
Surviving are his widow, Lela H., son HAROLD C. B.Arch. '51, who was associated with his father in the firm Munger, Munger and Associates, Architects in the Security Bldg., Toledo, Ohio. He is also survived by a sister, Mrs. Marie Schuster and three grandsons. 
A recent death was that of the father of WILLIAM J. LINKLATER '64, 3950 Lake Shore Dr., Apt 1315-C, Chicago. His father was a Chicago attorney who served as attorney for the village of LaGrange and Lyons Township. He was a recipient of the Loyola Law School "medal for excellence." 
Another belated notice of death was that of the wife of JOHN B. KANALEY AB '09 who died Dec. 4, 1970 in New York. The address of John B. is 200 E. 66th Street, New York, N.Y. 10021. 
Eternal rest grant to these, your faithful ones, O Lord, and let perpetual light shine upon them and grant them everlasting rest. 
Albert A. Kuhle 117 Sunset Ave. LaGrange, 111. 60525 
'16 GLORIOUS DAYS 
June 11-12-13 what glorious days to remember! I rode down to ND from Racine (150 mUes) with JOHN WHALEY '51. We registered for $35 and were given an orange hat that read "50 years" then taken to our registered room in the Morris Irm. Eveiy five-year class had hats in different colors and stayed in a group in a certain hall. 
We met Rev. CHARLES DOREMUS and Rev. CORNELIUS J. "Con" HAGERTY and scads of old pals from our class and many classes on either side of 55 years. It was fun talking old times to GEORGE SHANAHAN '17, and his son, to GEORGE WAAGE '18, DANNY HIL­GARTNER '17, JAKE KLEIN '21 and his wife, PAT and Mrs. MALONEY '16 and their son who is a ND priest. 
Think of three open tents for refreshments all day 8 a.m.-midnight with fellows sitting around in groups talking of old times, business, the Hill Street car, Skiving, HuUe and Mike's place, the teams going away by train and the returns by wire or the ND buns. Military drills on Thursday—"Reck" Day—but not for those hard-working engineers—the 5-cent movies with the "Perils of Pauline." Notre Dame men are congenial, they mix well and stop or sit and talk to anyone—surprising how many have mutual friends in all parts of the world. 
Oh, yes! we had a most interesting tour of the campus and even visited St Mary's and that chapel at St. Mary's is beyond description. 
I visited our wonderful old basement chapel—all done over and wonderful. The ND Church has been done over—new pews, completely carpeted, no side aisles—new confessionals that are "airy" and really something. With the students gone (all but those who stayed to help serve us) the halls were clean, plenty of rooms for all and full of fond memories. My picture books of 1912-16 brought back fond memories—I'll report on this next time. 
This once in a lifetime trip was wonderful for those who came. 
Grover F. Miller '16 1208 S. Main St. Racine, Wis. 53403 
17 TO THE PIE HOUSE 
For the benefits of the '17-ers who did not attend the reunion or reply to the postcard questionnaire sent out in April and May by your secretary, we received 13 answers to the 60 cards; just about the number who did come back, which proves that the professor we told you about in a previous class analysis was right. The Goat was unanimously nominated to succeed the secretary for another four-year period, if he lives that long. BERNARD VOLL, our class president, ad infinitum, was unanimously reelected, and right here is a very good place to thank him and tell our classmates how fortunate we are to have such a class leader with his ability and interest to keep us together; and I do mean from falling apart. 
Another modest '17-er is GEORGE SHANAHAN of Lima, Ohio, who did not admit until late in May that he and Muriel celebrated their 50th wedding anniversary last September with the help of five children, 21 grandchildren and two great-grand­children, which is quite a tribe of Irishers. Now, let's have it, loud and clear, a big UND for George. 
According to the latest report, PAUL FOGARTY is home in Del Ray Beach, Fla., from the hospital and recuperating from a slipped disc with the aid of Elizabeth, and will be trying to break par a^ n before you know it, or maybe Lib will tie him down like a mad putter. 
Also include in your prayers, please, Annette, the wife of JOE FLYNN of Pompano Beach, Fla., retired lawyer and real estate operator. Annette is suffering from a fractured spine. Joe has lost 30 pounds and needs your prayers, too. 
That little old Walsh Hall quarterback, HUGHIE O'NEILL, returned from his winter home in Florida at the end of April, where he was co-host with Charley Bachman for the midwinter ND roundup. 
He hauled out and shined up the deep sea 
fishing equipment and was off to the Great 
Bahamas for some tarpon, with a couple of 
teen-age granddaughters. Tell us about the 
big one. Pepper. There are also disadvantages in living 
near the campus. Try to figure this one out, 
if you like marital puzzles. The son of your 
secretary, DAN III '42, is married to the 
SMA sister of KARL KING Jr. '25, class­
mate of JIM ARMSTRONG. Recently 
PAUL FENLON '19 introduced your secre­
tary to a CSC man on the campus, known 
to the students as the "marrying parson," and 
said, "You know Dan Hilgartner, don't 
you. Father?" and the good man promptly 
replied, "Oh, yes, you are married to Karl 
King's sister, Patricia, are you not?" and I 
was not wearing a hat either. Only a spread 
of 50 years and please do not tell this story 
to my daughter-in-law. To those who did not respond but were 
interested, we did not receive a single 
suggestion for a memorial for Father George 
MacNamara, affectionately known to our 
ladies' auxiliary as "Uncle George," so we 
simply suggest that we remember him in our 
daily prayers. In his last days at Sacred 
Heart church in New Orleans, he and 
Father ANDY MULREANY 78, were 
assigned to count the pennies, nickels and 
dimes from the sbc Sunday Mass collections 
or so he told us when we once invited him 
to dinner. What an ending for an Ail-
American, and once the most popular rector 
of Walsh Hall. BILL GRADY and his Mary have made 
another record. They touched down on all 
seven of the Hawaiian Islands last winter, 
including Kauai, on which they have a mar­
ried daughter living. This one is next to 
Oahu, on which Honolulu is located; the 
one on which they grow hula dancers and 
pineapples. The Aloha state is our 50th and 
the most beautiful of all, they say. And we thought we had it tough when we 
were students. This daily schedule is from a 
recent letter from Johnny Reynolds, the 
Trappist monk, and let us never forget, 
little old two-miler. Quote: "I get up at 
3:30. Matins and choir at 4:15, Mass next, 
breakfast at 6:30: work in bindery until 
noon, dine at 12:30; siesta until 2:00. 
Private prayers, walk, vespers at 5:30, 
supper at six. Compline at 7:30, shave for 
Mass, and lucky to make bed by ten." 
Lucky to be alive, I'd say; almost 19 hours 
a day. A special supplement by Chet Grant 
written as an English class duty in 1916 and 
recovered by him after searching his files for 
a week, when he read recently about the 
original pie house in the 1917 news 
columns. 
MIND OVER MATTER (To Notre Dame du Lac or Down the Road to the Pie House) 
You bid me learn. I ought to care, I ought to hearken to your cries As you would loose me from the snare of thoughtless ways. Of Nation's rise 
and fall, the sum of history sighs: of Science, Art, of martyrs at the stake You teach and sift the truth from lies. 
Oh, Lady of the Lake. 
The humbler world? How does it fare? I would not, will not e'en surmise 
In serious things I want no share While spring so swiftly forward flies. 
I ask but for the coin that buys A glass of milk, some chocolate cake, 
or choice of many kinds of pies. Oh, Lady of the Lake. 
L'Envoi 

And mind with matter vainly vies. The road to the Pie House 1 take Despite your intellectual ties, 
Ob, Lady of the Lake. 
Bernard VoU, our class president, did not preside at the class dinner. He was with Ina, his wife, at the Mayo Clinic, where she had a foot operation the weekend of the reunion and expected to return to South Bend the following week. 
Among those present were Bill Grady, Law Welch, Leo Vogel. Doc Nigrr^ and your secretary. It is what is known as a Roman bust; perhaps the regulars are waiting for the big year. Let's hope. 
There are not many left. And none was served at the alumni banquet. 
Dan E. Hilgartner, Jr. 1701 Turtle Creek Drive, North South Bend, Ind. 46637 
'18 GREAT RF.Li.NION 

We had a great reunion. Sorry if you 
missed this year. Attended Monogram dinner in the 

Monogram Room of the Athletic & Con­
vocation Center. You 'gotta' see it. Some 
building. Seated at our table as I remember 
were REV. C. J. WILLIAMS, WILLIAM 
J. ANDRES, TOM H. LAVERY '19, 
HON. NORMAN C. BARRY '21 and 
WILLIAM A. GRADY '17. The place 
was crowded. Lavery was pitcher and 
Andres catcher on the baseball team and 
replayed games way back when. LEONARD M. CALL '19 wrote he 
was Florida bound. Nice that he and 
MRS. C. changed vacation plans and 
returned to ND. NEIL J. "Whitey" 

WHALEN wrote that he and Rosemary 
would not be able to attend this year. 
Neither could: FRANK J. RYDZEWSKI, 
JOHN J. VOEKERS, E. M. STARRET, 
G. E HARBERT, or JOHN A. LEMMER. 
Missed the "Judge" J. T. RILEY. Gotta 
check up on a lot of you guys to learn if 
you are "still Kicking" and enjoying good 
health. And to let you know we will be 
looking forward to seeing you on campus 
next ND family reum'on. DANNY HIL­
GARTNER '17 lives just off campus and 
after dinner LEO J. VOGEL '17 drove 
Danny home. BILL GRADY '17 went along 
and enjoyed a good "bull session." It was 
noted that B. J. VOLL '17 and C. D. BEH 
'17 were missed and that no MILLER was 
at reunion—that's a "first." Stopped at Corby Hall. I shared a room 
in the subway for the first year with "Ole 
Dutch" BERGMAN and ERNIE BURKE 
both no longer with us. Visited on porch 
where Fr. CHARLES L. DOREMUS 

lives. He honestly looks great and is most 
pleased to have you slop by and reminisce 
about the way-back-when days. Learn that 
LEO VOGEL also called on Father D. Walked around lake and saw the "Ole 
swimming hole" with GROVER F. MILLER 
'16 after breakfast in Dining Hall, good too, 
in cafeteria style. Agree with Grover 

that one can eat any time at the hotel 
but it's good to get one's feet on the 
ground and do as the students do when 
it comes to eating. Sit anyplace you see 
a yellow hat and you will be welcome. 
This, to me, is what makes reunion most 
rememberable. Thanks to the ladies attending reunion. 
They sure add a certain charm and their 
company is greatly appreciated. May you 
all enjoy your vacation. Sincerely hope 
you all have the best of health and 
contentedness. Let all of us—in the 

Notre Dame family—the "Good Lord 
Willing"—plan to return—1972. Peace. 
George B. Waage 3305 Wrightwood Ave. Chicago lU. 60647 

'21 MHO WILL REPLACE DA.X? 
]921 Attendees 

A. R. ABRAMS, WILLIAM S. ALLEN, NORMAN BARRY, JOSEPH BRANDY, 
A. T. BRAY, CHARLES F. DAVIS, FRANK S. DORIOT, JAMES HUXFORD, LEO D. KELLEY, JOHN KENNEY, CHARLES J. KING, GEORGE L. KIN­NEY, VINCENT NAGEL, REV. FRANK 
J. O'HARA, EDGAR F. SCHOLAND, RAYMOND SCHUBMEHL, WILLIAM J. SHERRY, PAUL EMMEIT SWEENEY, JOSEPH TILLMAN, MARK ZIMMERER. 
•22 50th NEXT 

We of '22 are greatly saddened by the news 
that DAN W. DUFFY—class secretary 
extraordinary of our neighboring Class of 
'21, died of a heart attack very shortly 
before he was to lead his class to their 
50th anniversary celebration at ND. Dan 

was a very capable class secretary, who was 
extremely popular with all of his classmates, 
also, was held in very high regard by 

countless others on the ND campus, in his 
home city of Cleveland, and throughout 

the U.S. Our loving sympathy is extended 
to Dan's widow, Welda, who resides at the 
Colonial Hotel, 523 Prospect Ave., Cleve­
land. Ohio, and to others of the Duffy 
family. From ANTHONY F. GONZALEZ '25 

chairman of the board of the Mondragon 
Securities Corporation located at 6781 
Ayala Avenue, Makati, Rizal, Philippines, 

comes this sad letter telling us of the death 
of his brother R. J. "Duke" GONZALEZ, 

a beloved classmate of 1922. I quote from 
Anthony's letter: "Dear Mr. Ashe: I 
should have informed you before about 
the death of my brother, R. J. 'Duke' 

Gonzalez. Class of '22, who passed away in 
September of last year. He had been 
suffering from cancer of the throat and 

after an operation seemed to be doing well, 
but it was a losing battle and he finally
died after receiving the holy sacraments 
and was buried in our family mausoleum 
near Manila." Our loving sympathy is surely extended 
to Anthony on the death of his brother, 
known to every member of our class as 

the "Duke" because of his regal bearing— 
he seemed to be a great campus favorite, 
and we deeply regret that we have seen 
very little of him in recent years because 
he was so far removed from the ND 
campus. Please do remember Rafael J. in 
your prayers—God rest his soul. 

As we go to press, we learn with much sorrow that another '22 classmate. A. 
CHARLES GIOMI of 5 Godwin Lane, 
Ladue, St. Louis, Mo. 60525, died in 
December 1969. 
To the family of the deceased we send our deep sympathy and regrets, and ask 
that prayers be plentifully offered for the 
repose of his soul. 

Our 50th anniversary class reunion is now just one year away. We urge all '22 men 
to start making plans to attend this conclave 
on the ND campus. The University 
furnishes a great impetus by inviting the 
wives of all '22 men to make certain that 
their husbands attend the affair, and the 
wives themselves are to be guests of the 

University at the Morris Inn on the campus. 
Already, many '22 men have promised, if 
possible, to attend our 50th. and they in­
clude DAN YOUNG, VINCE HANRA­
HAN. CHUCK CROWLEY. Doctors 
MATT WEIS and DAN SEXTON, and 

that very popular orchestra leader of the 
1920's and I930's—HARRY E. DENNY 
of 1503 Shenandoah St., Los Angeles, 
90035. Who else? 
Gerald "Kid" Ashe 
175 Landing Road, North Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
•23 PLANiNTNG DELAYED 

Best Laid Plaits ... . The Establishment had hoped to plan for our Golden Jubilee of 1973. RED SHEA, JOE NYIKOS and I made i t JACK NORTON was temporarily in a Chicago hospital undergoing some repairs. ED KREIMER's grandson suddenly turned up from military camp 
and that's always a top priority. But JIM 
MARTIN materialized along with Col. 
FRANK DORIOT who has a newly 
acquired Southern accent We had an 
hour's session in a room and then dinner. 
We were photographed by DOC NIGRO 
and BILL SHERRY. We sent Norton a 
postcard informing him that we were 
there. 
Committees for '73 .. . . Since Kreimer 

was not there to defend himself we 
naturally elected him general chairman. 
JOHN ROHRBACH was not there so we 
made him local arrangements chairman 
who will work with the Alumni Office on 
what it calls "the fine little details of the 
weekend." He will have help from LEO 
RIEDER, ART DIEDRICH and other 
South Bend area people. Regional chairmen 
vfiU be mostly repeaters from the group 
that did such a good job in '68: East: 
DAN CULHANE; South: JOE 
DONALDSON; Midwest: MURRAY 
POWERS: Far West: HARRY FLAN­
NERY; Chicago Area: JIM MARTIN. Each 
regional chairman will have a committee 
. . . These will be announced later, probably 
in a class letter which will also include . . . 
Class Rosier ... . Kreimer, who is really a working veep, has finished a working draft which will be published after some checking with the Alumni Office. For now we add up to, believe it or not, 152. How about that? And we might recover more from the 23 listed as 'lost or strayed.' But we counted those 152 blessings with sombre restraint. IVAN SHARP was no longer on the list; and while we were meeting JEFF POWERS also was released from a long purgatory. 
Ivan left us April 4 in Providence Hospital, Portland, Ore. He had not been well for several years and the immediate cause was a stroke. He is survived by a daughter, Carolyn, and a son DAVID '50; and his wife Mary, who wrote: "The 1950 reunion was the last Ivan attended; but through the years he read and enjoyed the class news in the ALUMNUS." At our table we remembered various things about Ivan: He was a Gary Cooper type; a giant; an authentic Western man who had a gentle touch and was somewhat of an authority on flowers. The family address: 2gl5 N. E. 33rd Ave.. Portland, Ore. 97212. 
MURRAY POWERS wrote about his long-time friend: "Jeff (Jeffrey V.) died in Mercy Hospital, Urbana, O., this morning. He had retired from heading up the Champaign National Bank in Urbana five years ago. He came back from Arizona a year ago for some checkups, was hospital­ized for 60 days, had three operations, was in poor shape all winter. His only immediate survivor is BOB POWERS, a brother who graduated from ND about 1927. Bob's address is 419 Boyce St. Urbana, O. 43078." 
So, fellows, if you can still walk around, feel half-way good and take care of your family, you're rich. 
Retirees . . . This from the Alumni Office: "Murray Powers, who retired in 1966 after almost half a century in journalism, is retiring again. This time from Kent State where he has been a professor of journalism for 27 years." Murray worked on papers in Springfield, Dayton, Marion and Canton, all in Ohio, before joining the Akron Beacon Journal in 1934. He became assistant to the executive editor and on his days off taught at Kent State. He has been honored by the naming of a journalism scholarship at Kent State by the Beacon Journal and its editor John S. Knight His address is 540 E. Portage Tr., Cuyahoga Falls, O. Murray adds up to a very solid man and a great credit to all of us. 
H. H. "Hy" HUNT, long-time Federal and state (Iowa) employee, wound up as assistant state supervisor of field auditors in the Income "Tax Division for 33 counties. In May he made a decision: "After 38 years of making out obnoxious daily reports estimated at 8892, it is time to throw in the towel and go fishing." Which he did. 
And doesn't that sound familiar? 
Over-Fijty Club ... . Your reporter 

looked in on the dinner of the '21 Class 
as it was welcomed into the 50-Year 
Club, a catchall designed to care for those 
elderly addicts who come back to all 
the reunions after their 50th. With luck 
we should turn out enough people in '73 
to out-vote those rascals; and 1 doubt 
very much if we ever lose our identity. It 
seems we will be the first of the 'big' 
classes to celebrate a 50th reunion because 
we came to school in 1919 as part of the 
post-WWI influx. For those already depositing money in 
the piggy-bank, a fee of S3 5 covered all 
Reum'on activities for the 50-Year 
Club; including two nights at the Morris 
Inn, cocktails, dinner and luncheon; and 
that reads like a very good deal. "The 
wives were included in all functions and 
there was a special tea. 
Conglomerates .. . A class isn't just a 

class. As the numbers recede the inclination 
is to sort of meld with those who were 
in school at the same time. This year it 
was good to see JOE BRADY, LEO 
KELLY and others of the class of '21. 
Next year it will be BUCK. SHAW, EDDIE 
ANDERSON, HUNK and the rest of the 
'22 guys. And among the memories is what 
football Capt. Eddie Anderson said to the 
Iowa U. student body at a pep meeting 
in "ll: "/ don't know what Noire Dame 
means to you. To tis it means Our Lady." 
Francis Wallace 
4615 Guernsey St. 
Bellaire, Ohio 49306 
'24 DON'T HIDE 
Sometimes by being unintentionally a little ambiguous in my reporting, you readers cannot tell when I am quoting, paraphrasing, or writing in the first personal pronoun. I try to report information any way I get it, but not being a professional, I presume I break many of the basic rules. Many of the following names were familiar to me on campus; some were not. They are, however, the silent majority and I would like to stimulate them to break their silence and supply some information about themselves. I have intentionally skipped over the LL.B. segment because they are not naturally adapted to the silent majority. 1 appreciate their past support. We would hardly have had a column to read if it were not for them in the past, but this column for this issue is dedicated to those who hide their light under a bushel. 
How about J. RAYMOND BARRETT of Park Ridge, 111.: JOHN B. BARR of Glen Rock, N. J.; JEROME C. ARNOLD of Sarasota, Fla.; Dr. BRUNO C. COOK of Westphalia, Mich.; WILLIAM J. CON­NORS of Evanston, 111.; DeWITI P. BUELL of Dallas, Tex. (until now I never realized it was anything but the straight Irish "Pat" Buell); TOM BLAIR, Tucson, Ariz.; HERMAN BITTNER, Worthinglon, Ohio; and JOE (pony backfield) BERGMAN. 
That is enough to start. You get the idea. Maybe next issue I'll expose a few others further into the alphabetical index. But don't wait; send me biographical in­formation while there is still time to publish it and personally be here to read it . . . like this one from E. BROWN MILLER, 3300 N. E. 36 SL Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 33308. 
"Dear Jim: Thanks for your card. I noticed your extensive coverage on our class in the last ALUMNUS. Just in case rU submit the uninteresting news to be available for any vacant space in future. Last year I went on an African camera-safari .. . I also made my annual trek to the Kentucky Derby where I contributed as usual to the betterment of thoroughbreds . . . and a couple of times to Bimini fishing grounds with the usual boatload of big ones. Our group got four citations, 
not including me. (Ed. Note. I don't 
know whether a citation is good or bad.) 
My roommate and friend of long standing, 
FRANK BRESLIN of Louisville passed 
away and really shook me up. Nothing 
seems to crop up about my other room­
mates, BOB CUNNINGHAM and lover-
boy WUd BILL DEFFARI. JIM SWIFT 
may know something about Bill since 
the last I heard he was in Dallas. I was 
with JOHN CALLAN '21 and GEORGE 
LAUGHLIN '25 at the last ND Club 
meeting. I was interested in your reference 
to Grace Lines cruises. As a retired Navy 
man I've had my hours in the air, and like 
the salt air with the relaxation on a 
ship. They've dropped their East Coast 
ports and I'm driven to foreign lines if 
I want to run around the globe. Well, 
Jim, this is my attempt to provide some­
thing of no consequence. Best regards . . ." 
signed Ed (E. B. MILLER). My reference 
to Grace Lines was incidental to the last 
25 years of my own business career which 
was under the banner of W. R. Grace & 
Co. in another division, and being a very, 
very small shareholder of their stock I 
get an invitation to their annual cruise 
which is quite an affair. 
Like my favorite news analyst, Howard 
K. Smith, I would like to close with a personal observation: We of '24 have reached a stage in life when it is usually considered time to sit back and listen. I think this is a wrong attitude. It took a long time for most of us to regulate our activities so that we would be most considerate of the opira'ons and rights of others. There are sporadic efforts by a few to use this resource of experience and practical knowledge. My own, for what it is worth, is that we can still accomplish a great deal by realiang that wc have now reached the stage where we can afford the lime and effort to pursue worthwhile goals not connected or hampered by our own struggle for economic survival or ag­gressive acquisition. Guidelines are not readily available; we are on our own in a very fertile field not generally recognized by current society. We must, therefore, make it a person-to-person experience with our younger generation and hope that a well-rounded education is infectious, not sterile. 
At this writing 1 cannot report what has happened to our class officers election. We hope it will be cleared up by the time this column is in print. If not, we hope this will revive it so that we have a going organization in time for our grand 50th reunion. 
James B. Durcan 
5400 SW Scholls Ferry Rd. 
Portland, Ore. 97225 
'25 A LETTER FROM .TIM 
Yesterday's mail brought news from JAMES 
E. ARMSTRONG — "It has not been a good year for '25 in South Bend. We lost EDDIE LUTHER, as you probably heard. I understand that BILL SHEEHAN and I were in different hospitals locally, for the same unglamourous surgery, at the same time. Marion and I had just come back from Paris and we were all set to drive out to California, when my own roadblock detoured me into the convenient Memorial Hospital. I was lucky not to have been in France, or even en route West. ART HALEY's son, Dr. GEORGE HALEY '52, was the surgeon, and was as smooth with the knife as his father is with the fork and spoon. To clarify the casual mention of Paris, Marion and I have become quite the place-droppers. The Alumni Association has improved since my long stay there, and has offered these short lO-day trips to key cities. So far we have gone to Rome, Madrid and Paris. Alumni Holidays, Inc., a travel agency headed by DICK SMALL, '51 and specializing in groups of alumni 
from all the universities. They have been 
extremely pleasant, and popular with 
those alumni families (all ages and 
places) who have enjoyed them—evidenced 
most convincingly by the numbers who 
have made two or all three of the trips 
to dale. Marion and I, as hosts, have the 
pleasure of knowing most of those on the 
trips, from personal contacts through the 
years or with other members of their 
families. The JOHN BARTLEYs and 
the (newlywed) JACK COURTNEYs were 
on the Paris trip. You guys with your 
daughters can probably lake the ND-Sl. 
Mary's merger in stride. But to me and 
my stag posterity, it is not easy. Happily, 
the one helpful bridge is Marion, who 
is looking forward now to first-class 
citizenship, after a life of exclusion and/ 
or priorities." The Alumni OfBce did advise your 
secretary of Eddie Luther's death on May 
11 and a couple of weeks later of MORT 
S. STETTAUER's death on Jan. 5 of 
this year. As most of you know both of 
these classmates lived in South Bend. 
Eddie lived at 1531 E. LaSalle Ave. and 
Mort at 625 E. Angela Blvd. HANK 
WURZER has advised their families of our 
class Mass being said for them. Remember 
them in your prayers. Received a nice note from Dr. GERALD 
W. BARRY '23 of 1948 East Parvin Rd., 
Kansas City. He said our column brought 
back memories of his home town. It was 
DAVE MURPHY'S father who was an 
M.D. and was the stimulus for Gerald 
becoming a doctor. His Dixon friends, 
the JONES brothers. GERALD JONES 
was the driver for the first Father John 
Cavanaugh and HERB was secretary to 
Father Bums before he entered the sports 
field. WILLARD was killed many years ago 
in an automobile accident He concluded 
by writing it was nice to have been re­
minded of those old and happy friendships. 
John P. Huriey 2085 Brookdale Rd. Toledo, Ohio 43606 
'26 THEY CAME B.4CK 
J926 Attendees 
EUGENE VIAL, PAUL ABEL, WILLIAM 
R. BARR, JOSEPH B. BOURKE, TOM BURKE, DR. BERT COUGHLIN, FRANK DEITLE, ROBERT DOLEZAL, WILLIAM DORGAN, JAMES DWYER, HERB EGGERT. THOMAS A. FARRELL JR.. ROMAN FELDPAUSCH, LOUIS FRANKE J. NORBERT GELSON, RUDY GOEPFRICH. ART HALEY, AUSTIN K. HALL, EDWARD HARGAN, GERALD W. HAYES, PAUL HEADDY. BRO. NORBERT HENSKE, J. WORDEN KANE, FR. HOWARD KENNA, CSC. MALCOLM KNAUS. BOB LaFOLLETTE, CHARLES P. MARGUET, CHARLES MASON, MARK MOONEY, WILLIAM J. MOORE. FRANCIS J. NEES. DANIEL J. O'NEILL. CLAUD PITSENBERGER, MIKE REDDINGTON, JERRY REIDY, WILLIAM J. REID, JOHN J. RYAN. J. VINCENT SOISSON, 
C. F. SWEENEY, JAMES VALLELY, HOWARD WEIMERSKIRK, BERNARD 
K. WINGERTER. 
'27 HUNT RETIRES 
J. RAY HUNT retired July 1 after 16 years on the Philadelphia Daily News and plans to move to a new home in Fairfield, Conn., next fall. Ray worked at the former South Bend Nen's-Times while at ND. He also assisted Knute Rockne with the book. Four Winners. Since then he's worked on various papers including the Chicago Times and later the Sun-Times as well as at writing radio scripts, magazine articles, short stories and speeches for politicians. He once wrote "BMy 
31 

Sunday" for the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo which, in his own evaluation, was "a cultural success but a financial flop."He and his wife, the former Nan Matthews of South Bend, have two children and 10 grandchildren. 
Ray's retirement brings to mind the fact that now, since practically all of us have reached the age of 65, many other classmates have retired. I would be glad to have more information regarding re­tirements. 1 know that we would all like to know about plans for a new form of life, changes of residence, travels and other activities that different members are enga^ng in to take the place of many years of gainful employment. 
Clarence J. Ruddy 
111 West Downer Place 
Aurora, 111. 60504 
78 TWO P.\RT1ES 

I am looking forward to seeing a large number of '28ets and their wives at the 16th annual class cocktail party, following the MSU game (Oct 2) at the Center for Contintiing Education and at the second bienm'al class get-together at JOE DORAN's home outside Lafayette, Ind., after the Purdue game. 
It saddens me to have to report the largest number of deaths ever covered by me in a single column. Two friends who have been very active members of our class, RAY MULLIGAN and LOU NORMAN, died in June. Ray became ill on his way home from church and died several hours later. He is survived by three daughters. Ray retired about a year ago from the Chicago Title Insurance Co. where he served as assistant V-P. Classmates visiting the mortuary and/or attending the funeral included your class secretary and the foUowing: BOB RIGNEY, JOE ENRIGHT, ED McSWEENEY, Judge JOHN LYON, BERNIE LEAHY, HOWIE PHALIN, CHARLIE SCHUESSLER, BILL DWYER, ED RAFTER and BILL GOELITZ. 
LEO WALSH advised me of the death of Lou Norman of Birmingham, Mich. Lou is survived by his widow, Margaret. He retired four years ago after 32 years as a public relations man for GM. Lou wrote last year advising of his inability to attend our '28 cocktail party because of pending surgery. 
As the result of following through on a lead from Ed Rafter, I found that HARRY ENGEL had died unexpectedly in December after 42 years of serving as professor of art at Indiana U. Harry is survived by three sisters. 
JOHN P. HANNAN advised me of the death of MEYER MARKS in May following a heart attack in Chicago where he was a pharmaceutical chemist with the Golden Rule Pharmacy, Inc. His survivors include his widow, Florence, and two children. 
I covered in my June newsletter the sad news of the deaths of PIERCE O'CONNOR in Cleveland and JIM REILLY in Spalding, Neb. 
Two of our '28 Glee Club classmates met the ND Glee Club on tour in Europe. VINCE CARNEY saw the group in Amsterdam and FRANK CREADON, in Iimsbruck. Frank met a priest in Ireland who grew up in Killamey with Father Mike Mulcaire. Two of our perennial travelers, DICK GREENE of Muncie and TOM BOV, are off again this year, Dick and Mildred to Europe and Tom to Asia. Incidentally, Tom Bov broke all records in the history of Standard Oil Company of NJ . and Humble Oil Co. for having served 31 years as chief engineer prior to his recent retirement. 
BILL MURPHY and your class secretary attended Rev. MARK FITZGERALD'S 19th Union-Management Conference in June. Incidentally, Father Mark has been promoted to emeritus with the rank of faculty fellow at ND. Unfortunately, EMMET DOHANY of Grosse Pointe Woods, Mich., is confined to bed or wheel chair as the result of a progressive muscular problem and SYLVESTER MOBILY has been hospitalized for six months prior to his return recently to his home in Brecksville, Ohio, Dr. FRANCIS FORD, a physician in Billings, MonL, was married in April in Scarsdale, N.Y., with BUD TOPPING representing the Class of '28 at the wedding. Frank's first wife died in 1965. 
Pauline and I had a good session with BERNIE GARBER and Dorothy and GEORGE CRONGEYER in New York on my return from a meeting in Washington where I am serving on a committee of the National Council for Social Studies, an atfih'ate of the National Education Association. Congratulations to JIM SCHOCKNESSY on becoming chairman of the Ohio State U. board of trustees. GENE FARRELL reports that one of his closest friends while a ND student, CLIFF TROMBLEY, called him from Detroit after a lapse of 44 years. Cliff lives at the TuUer Hotel, 521 Park Ave., Detroit, Mich. 48226. 
I was sorry to learn that TURK. MINERT is a widower. His wife died four years ago. GUS JENKINS reports that he, BERNIE BIRD, MARTY RYAN of Buffalo, and JOHN SCHMITZ of Atlanta wiU attend the '28 cocktail party after the MSU game. GEORGE COURY and JOHN LAHEY also plan to attend. 
My thanks for the excellent response received to my June newsletter. An analysis of the questionnaires received thus far indicates that we are entering the great­grandfather stage. JOHN FORGE has three great-grandchildren and ANTHONY DeDARIO, one. Are there other great­grandfathers? John Forge has 26 grand­children and John Lahey, 24. 
Add the following to our expanding list of retirees: HARRY KRIMM (40 years with Krimm Hardware Co.); PETE GALLAGHER (42 years with Freeland, Pa., High School); FRED PFORTNER (42 years with Indianapolis Power and Light Co.); JOHN P. HANNAN (39 years with Buriineton Industries); HARRY SCHUBMEHL (11 years with Foster Wheeler Corp.); EMMET DOHANY (35 years with Lewis & Ford Real Estate Co.) and WALTER LA'iT^E (10 years with Dell Publishing Co.). 
In the next issue, I will report on additional replies to my June mailing. 
Louis F. Buckley 6415 N. Sheridan Rd., Apt. 1007 Chicago, 111. 60626 
'29 .A.TTEND RETREAT 

RAY BREEN, who is looking forward to his reU'rement later this summer, writes, "My wife and I attended a husband-wife 
retreat at ND last fall timed to include seeing the Army game. .. . In early February we left Cleveland, stopping off in Arlington, Va., to visit our daughter Sr. Mary Luisonne SND, who is teaching at St. Ann's school. She is a dedicated nun who is happy in her vocation. . . . My youngest daughter. Nan, and her husband live in a house-boat on the Miami River in Miami, where he is studying for his master's degree in accounting at Miami U. . . . Thanks to our son KEN '58, and his wife who live in Cleveland we are grandparents to six fine boys and three lovely girls. Ken is engineer for a firm whose product is building materials and preformed steel module homes. 
"We look forward to a visit to the campus early this fall. It is always a treat to get back and to see good friends. I phoned GAY HAAS while in Ariington but there wasn't time to see him before we left" 
Rev. HENRY GLUECKERT CSC, chaplain at Holy Cross Brothers Center, was ordained June 26, 1921 at ND. For 39 years he was teacher of Greek and Latin and a prefect at ND. He is going strong winter and summer, but saves time and energy to be the most consistent benefactor of the ducks, birds and squirrels near Corby Hall. He has a sister and two brothers all living in South Bend. His brother CHARLES, who was a topflight lineman for ROCKNE, gave a reveah'ng talk on his experiences with "Rock" to the members of the St Joseph Valley Alumni Club a year ago. Rev. CHARLES L. DOREMUS CSC is equally rugged and active as expert foliage pruner for parts of the campus. Rev. PETER HEBERT CSC is recovering after undergoing surgery recently. 
JIM CURRY and FRANCIS FLYNN were back for the June reunion weekend again. This is a routine statement of fact rather than one of unusual news. This was a reunion of animated discussion on the state of Notre Dame. Come prepared to present your views in '74. As yet not all have come to a strong consensus. 
FRANCIS JONES and Mrs. Jones, South Bend, announced the engagement of daughter Mary Kathleen to Michael Roberts of South Bend. Mary Kathleen attended Dunbarton College and was graduated from SMC. She is a teacher in South Bend and is doing graduate study at Indiana U. at South Bend. The wedding date is mid-July. Her brother DANIEL ROBERT was married in early April. (No offense, Dan, for the brief mention). 
THAD HEINLEIN is much involved in his business offering Business Systems in Erie, Pa., as is FRANCIS METRAILER in his manufacturing enterprise in Waterloo, Ind. Thad's daughters as well as Frank's continue to acquire honors and degrees. Melanie, the youngest daughter of the Metrailers, will enter SMC at ND this fall. 
RICHARD SULLIVAN, '30, Ulustrious professor of English, novelist and nationally recognized book reviewer, made this comment to me shortly after the preceding issue of the ALUMNUS: "Larry, I read the '29 column and found JIM KENNEDY'S letter most enjoyable!" I am grateful for this praise from Dick, and for having Jim as a faithful contributor to the cause of the Class of '29. If you haven't read the previous column here are some additional sample excerpts from Jim's letter. These may motivate you to read his first installment Perhaps you are like the Slanders who wait until the Oscars are awarded before they get around to seeing a movie. 
". . . There was a gap of a year between high school and college while I tried to earn enough for the first year at ND. Part of the time I worked for Elbel Bros. It was during the height of the KKK revival of '23 and I recall the philosophy of Richard Elbel, 'Nothing predicated upon hate will long survive.' And the similar quotation in Latin that translates. 'From nothing, nothing comes.' by Prof. Sanford in S.B.H.S. .. . We had hoped to have six children, but the kids were so much fun and I kept earning more, we went all out for a dozen. They are good kids. Most of them have gone to college, others are in the process of going or making plans to go. It has been wonderful seeing them grow up and accomplish so much. Some are earning more than I did in my best years. They have inimitable individual personalities, but all with the same strong generic characteristics, and good-hearted, generous, kind and intelligent . . . Just to be living is wonderful, when so many of my peers have departed. At 65, there is still life in the patriarch of the Kennedy clan. I suffered a setback with illness three years ago .. . it cost me most of my engineering consulting business but I'm slowly trying to build it up again. Eileen manages a riding stable of some 50-odd horses, in which she boards her mare expecting a foal in March. Ether she'll wind up a horse doctor or marry a rancher. She has a way with her about horses. .. . On this, the occasion of my 6Sth birthday, God bless you." 
Finally the MSU (Oct. 2) game has been selected for our post-game get-together. For those who are here later for the Southern Cal game, please take advantage of the area in the Athletic and Convoca­tion Center assigned to Classes '25 to '30. It is adjacent to the cash bar. We will see you there immediately after the game. 
Larry Stauder 
Engineering Bldg. 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'30 P.4RTY ON OCT. 23 
The Class of '30 will have a gathering and cocktail party this fall after the Southern Cal game, Oct. 23. The place will be announced in another mailing and also will be mentioned in a special announce­ment in the stadium that day between halves. This issue of the ALUMNUS should reach all Southern California ticket purchasers well before the season opens. We may have another mail announcement on this. 
JACK O'KEEFE of Los Gatos. Calif., wrote me about his son now at ND. Jack's family of four sons and five daugh­ters have just about all completed their college work. Three of the boys have been at ND and three of the girls attended SMC. JOHN HEALY has been doing what comes naturally—traveling a lot. One card told of his visit at Port-au-Prince, Haiti. Also, John spent some time recently in his old home town, San Fran­cisco. TIM TOOMEY is in Eire, as though there was not enough trouble there already, especially in the north. If he is seized over there by the enemy, we may have to call on DAN CANNON to take up a collection in the class to pay the ransom. 
BILL MILLER surfaced recently to announce that he is having open house for members of the Class of '30 at his home in Jackson, Miss., Nov. 19, the m'ght before the LSU game. He said the ND Mississippi Club is running several chartered buses from Jackson to Baton Rouge. All interested in Bill's hospitality should get in touch with him. He will gladly make motel reservations close by for you, and you can take the bus or plane (1 hour) to Baton Rouge for the night game. Bill has been in recent communica­tion about this with JACK ELDER, BOB HELLRUNG, GIL KIRWAN, CHUCK LENNON, VIC MARTZEL. JOHNNY V. MORAN, JOHN ROCAP, BILL SHERMAN and JOE PALERMO. 
The Class of '30 is grieved to learn of the death of T. JOHN FOLKS who died in Apiil 1971. Class members extend prayerful sympathy to Mrs. Folks and to John's two sons who are ND alumni. 
DAN CANNON said he will make at least three trips to South Bend this fall to see the MSU, So. Cal. and Tulane games. He wanted to invite all of you government workers to join him as a simple taxpayer, if you can get out from under the big umbrella for a while. BOB HOLMES recently retired from Indiana Bell which he has served for many years as an engineer. Now he can take over all kinds of local alunmi activities. He has agreed to come to lunch next week and discuss the football game cocktail party. 
TOM BRADLEY, who labors for the Labor Department of Gov. Rockefeller, wrote recently: "DOUG DALEY became secretary of the ND Club of NY and JACK. McNAMARA was elevated to the board of directors at the club's last electioiB. Jack moved from the historic South section of Brooklyn into an 
oceanside, high-rise cooperative complex in Breezy Point, near Rockaway. Less convenient to his law ofiice but cleaner air and safer living. . . . Helen and Daimy Cannon drove East from Columbus to spend some time with brother-in-law HOWIE SMITH in Pelham and found the scene so much to his liking a second invasion is on the books later this year. Howie's Mt. St. Michael's baseball team captured its sixth consecutive regional high school championship here this spring and is favored to take the Catholic League playoffs. . . . Incidentally, his son, HOWIE Jr. '65 vacated the sports editor's desk of the Yonkers Herald-Statesman moving to the sports department of the Associated Press. . . . BILL WALSH, now retired from the admiralty in Washington, trusting the Navy Department to sail along on its own, has relocated in his native Brooklyn. While in Government, Bill served as host to a slew of itinerant Notre Darners at his digs along the Potomac. Bill reports that Tim Toomey flies to Ireland this summer to look for a county in which, at long last, to settle down upon his own upcoming retirement from the Government. Wonder who's going to mind the store? . . . Real estate tycoon TOM LANTRY was on hand and afoot for the annual CYO Golf Tournament at the Westchester Country Club, assaulting par on the south course while, in his mind's eye, subdividing the west course into a residential Utopian commonwealth, a sort of Eastern Shangri-la. . . . TIM O'ROURKE was among eight past presi­dents of the ND Club of NY in a group of 18 alumni on a three-day, closed retreat at the St. Ignatius Retreat House in Manhasset, Long Island. As if by hierarchic sanction, Rev. Robert I. Gannon, SJ, himself a past president of Fordham during the great years (1936-49) of the university's development, conducted the spiritual exercises. . . . Good news on Subway Alumni President Bill Campbell: fully ambulatory now after sustaining a severe leg injury last fall that cut down his recruiting activities in the tri-state regions N.Y., NJ. and Pa., Bill is back on the circuit promoting prospects for 'Moose' and Ara and ND in general. . . . Two hundred alumni and friends were attracted to the UND Night dinner-dance at the Westchester Country Club to hear Father Burtchaell's first-rate discourse on the state of the University today, how it relates to the past and its prospects for the future. JIM SPELLMAN '41 was named Man of the Year by the NY Club, deservedly so. Had a Terpsichorean award been made that evening, CARL GRUN­ING would have danced away with the honor—no contest." 
Devere T. Plunkelt 
O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46656 
•31 80 COME BACK 
Another milestone, our 40th reunion, was enjoyed by approximately 80 young men of the Class of '31. Many arrived Thursday for early golf and the Monogram reunion. Cavanaujh Hall was a busy and slightly noisy spot Thursday m'ght as the early arrivals gathered together to bring back some campus memories and newer stories of things since the last reunion. Many thanks to the local arrange­ments committee who assisted in hall registration and formulated an interesting program for our reunion dinner. DAN CLARK acted as MC and awarded a few prizes. DICK O'DONNELL received the prize for coming the greatest distance. I wish at this time to thank the members of the class for their remembrance of my tenure as class secretary and efforts in their behalf. I received a beautiful engraved silver tray from the local committee and a watch, which I shall enjoy, from the efforts of MATT GARRIGAN and those 
he had contacted. Indeed, it was a sur­
prise, and much appreciated. 
One reunion spot was the room of JACK SAUNDERS and ART McMANMON. Among the visitors and celebrants were JOHN DORSCHEL, BERT METZGER, ED FOLEY, JOE GARDEWINE, RAY COLLINS and a few others who could crowd into their room. Last, not least among them, was CARL CRONIN. 
For the benefit of many of you who may not have visited the campus in many years, things have changed. Carpeted corridors and telephones in many of the rooms. ND has a CENTREX system which requires a special number for long distance. It seems as though Matt was dialing Detroit style and ended up getting the boiler room several times. Friday was another day of preparation, humidity and greeting new arrivals. We attended a luncheon and heard a talk by Rev. James 
T. Burtchaell CSC, provost. His topic was "Anger." Anger on campus, in the home, and what to do about it. I returned to Cavanaugh Hall with a classmate and his response was that he really felt after this talk that he had been using the wrong approach with his son on the question of long hair and that he would change. I am sure that there were several other alumni parents who received a beneficial message from his talk. There were other seminar and panel-type meetings which were well attended. 
For the benefit of those attending this reunion and future ones, our class collected a SIO contribution at the Cavanaugh Hall registration desk. This money went for gifts, etc., liquor refreshments provided at our hall, reum'on promotion on the part of the local committee, and the cocktail party preceding our class dinner at the University Club Friday evening, gift to Father Carey and other miscellaneous expenditures connected with the weekend. I will have a complete report on this for my next column as all bills are not in. "The local committee was working on a budget of 100 at SIO which would have been ample. Due to the only 75 to 80 returning, the efforts of BERT METZGER in making a special collection at the class dinner, plus a generous gift of a check for $100 from a classmate, we will be able to meet all expenses and have a small balance available to our Mass and Reunion Fund which is on deposit at the FNB, Chicago. I think that in another ten years we should add another title to this account, "THE LAST MAN FUND." 
Registration was at Stepan Center. There 1 met several of our classmates, but the biggest surprise was meeting Fr. Charles Doremus CSC '06. who was there to register with his class. He' is still looking very well, but very inactive, and F. X. MURPHY, your message was delivered to him. On Saturday morning, RAY COLLINS and I drove around the campus and finally were able to find Holy Cross House where we visited with Fr. JOHN MARGRAF, rector of Howard Hall in my freshman year. He is retired, enjoying reasonably good health and welcomes visitors and letters from his students of 1927-30. 
The quesU'on of our usual post-game cocktail - reunion party came up. Some decided that we should skip it this year in view of our recent 40-year reunion. To clarify the matter, the A&CC informed me that the Monogram Room would not be available for the Saturday of the Tulane-ND game. Our class will join the alumni body in its general cocktail reunion party following the U. of Southern Cali­fornia game, Oct 23, in the field house of the A&GC. There will be a baimer identifying the 1931 area where we can all get together. Probably not as plush as previous ones, but let's plan for a more successful one during the 1972 season. Please remember the date. Oct, 23. 
The BEAUPRE, MOLLER, FEHLIG^ 
golfers were on the course for two days as were PHIL ANGSTEN and FRANK HOLLAND, dinner-prize winner. RAY COLLINS was running a telephone mes­senger service for BERT METZGER and a few others who happened to have the phone number of Ray's room. RAY SULLIVAN and FRANK DOWNS were among the law graduates present and they commented that this was the best turnout of law grads they have seen. CHARLEY MILTNER arrived with the longest and fullest sideburns looking like a Gloucester fisherman as he was preparing for a Cadillac, Mich, festival. HENRY KOPEK and MATT GARRIGAN phoned a few weeks before reunion. Henry had hoped to make it, but he has been in ill health for some time. Our sympathy is also ex­tended to him in the loss of his son, Wallace, who was killed in an automobile accident April 24 returning from Washing­ton, D. C. He has another son in Chicago with Matson Navigation Co. FRED SWINT was on campus for his first reunion. His wife was with him. Fred and I spent our first two years of college together, and I hope that he will be back for the 45th. FRANCIS HENNEBERGER was also accompanied by his wife Vera. VINCE SULLIVAN, retired project engineer, has been nominated for a position on the East Irondequoit School Board, Rochester, N.Y. 
JOHN DORSCHEL, please support. Among letters and regrets received I heard from BUD TOUHY who was disappointed that business demanded his presence. Best wishes to all and a request that BOB PENDERGAST be kept in line. A maU­gram from LOUIS GODOY, delayed because of the W.U. Strike; "Sorry, cannot make it this time, special work to do, warm regards to all classmates, especially Cari Cronin and LEO GARLAND, enjoy yourself." BILL McCARTHY wrote EARL BRIEGER, but could not make it. Eari wrote and phoned many of his friends in an effort to get them here. FR. BOURKE MOTSETT could not say our class Mass due to prior wedding Mass requirements at Danville. JIM MULVANEY, after 26 years in the Chicago area, is now located in New Jersey, at the executive offices of Singer Corp. He tried to get JOHN BURNS. SLIM MAHAN and ED CUNNINGHAM to make it, but all failed to return. I under­stand that JOHN BURNS has been ill and I would appreciate a note from you, Jim, for his many friends who missed him at the reunion. 
FRANK LAHEY and SPIKE SULLIVAN attended the Alumni banquet Saturday night and were warmly welcomed by everyone present. 
With the joy of good health and reunion attendance, there also comes the sad news of the death of two of our classmates. I received a letter from Lois CuUigan, widow of JERRY CULLIGAN, Rock Island, 111., who died April 8th of a stroke. Word was also received of the death of CHARLES F. HANCOCK, JR., Louisville, Ky., May 11, 1971. Our sympathy and prayers go to the families of our departed classmates and to those suffering illness at this time. Again, it was wonderful to see so many classmates and particularly to receive their many promises of letters for future '31 columns. I hope these will not be forgotten because with the passing years, the inclination to write slows imperceptibly and suddenly some are not here to write. Please remember the post-game reunion following the USC game Oct. 23. Warmest wishes to all and thanks for your 
' remembrances. 
1931 Attendees 

JAMES M. CURRY. FRANK FLYNN, (Rev.) MAURICE POWERS, JACK ANDERSON, PHILIP J. ANGSTEN, JERRY BALL. BUSS BEAUPRE, FRAN BEAUPRE, RUSS BEAUPRE, JOHN D. BELTON, JOSEPH BLANEY, NICK 
34 

BOHLING, AUSTIN BOYLE, EARL BRIEGER, FRANK P. BUTORAC, FRANCIS CHAMBERS, DAN CLARK, RAYMOND F. COLLINS, FRANK CONOLE, CARL M. CRONIN, JEROME CROWLEY, RALPH J. DALTON, JOSEPH F. DEEB, FRANCIS J. D'MUHALA, JOHN DORSCHEL, FRANK 
J. DOWNS, JAMES T. DOYLE, JOE DUNNE, CLARENCE DURBIN, PAUL FEHLIG, OLIVER FIELD, FRANCIS FOLEY, CLARENCE FUTTER, ALFRED GALL, JOE GARDEWINE, MATTHEW GARRIGAN, BILL CINDER, JOSEPH GOLABOWSKI, AL GRISANTI, LAWRENCE HALTER, JOHN HANSON, FRANCIS J. HENNEBERGER, FRANCIS 
J. HOLLAND, GEORGE A. JACKO­BOICE, BROTHER ROGER JAMISON, AL KOLSKI, MICHAEL KINNEY, KENNETH J. KONOP, PHILIP KONOP, WILLIAM LEAHY, DANIEL LENCIOLI, JOHN LISICKI, JOHN MANLEY, ARTHUR MARGRAF, ROBERT MASSEY, BERNARD G. MCGLONE, TOM McGOUGH. JOHN E. McINTYRE, ROBERT C. McKENNA, ARTHUR T. McMANMON, JOHN McMURRAY, BERTRAM METZGER, CHARLES H. MILTNER, LARRY MOLLER, TOM MONAHAN, JAMES MURRAY, WALTER MURPHY, FRANK NOLL, BEN T. E. OAKES, EARL O'BRIEN, GEORGE L. O'CONNOR, WARD O'CONNOR, RICHARD O'DONNELL, WILLIAM O'MALLEY, JOE O'ROURKE, COLEMAN OSHAUGHNESSY, BAR­THOLOMEW O'SHEA, ROBERT L. PENDERGAST, GILBERT V. PERRY, WALTER PHILIPP, BILL REAUME, WALTER R. RIDLEY. ALBERT ROCHE, JAMES RUDOLF, JOHN F. SAUNDERS, JARLATH SLATTERY, ALFRED C. STEPAN, JOHN R. SULLIVAN, VINCENT SULLIVAN, DEON SUTTON FRED SWINT, JOHN O. WEIBLER, JOSEPH WETLI. 
James T. Doyle 
1567 Ridge Avenue 
Evanston, IL. 60201 
•32 GETS NEWSY LETTERS 

A newsy letter from Dr. JOHN H. RUDD calls attention to his new address —U. of Nevada, Las Vegas. JACK says "Teaching Law and Management here and developing a graduate program in hotel management. At the ND Glee Club concert for Bishop Gorman High School here in Las Vegas (where our youngest Maggie attends) met ND grads Judge MOWBRAY and Judge MENDOZA, who were recent guest speakers in my law classes. Have three sons in the service, two captains and a PFC. They have seen a lot of action (7 Purple Hearts) in Vietnam, but are topped by my son-in-law, with three tours, plus a short hop .. . the Green Beret P.O.W. rescue mission. Nothing like having a father with pull as chairman of the draft board. Retired from Columbia -Presbjfterian Medical Center in '59 to a farm in Vermont but couldn't take it. Hence the professorial standing. We now spend our summers on a new farm on the Vermont-New York border . . ." 
Almost in the same mail came a letter from old reliable, RAY GEIGER. "Just returned from a trip to the West Coast where I had a very nice visit with GENE CALHOUN. Talked about, but did not get together with ED MELCHIONE, but learned that he is in good health and prospering in the legal beagle field. When I was in Dallas I tried to contact TEX SIMMONS, but found he was fishingdown in Yucatan. Did find, however, that 
J. DONALD SULLIVAN, who Uves in Dallas and has been there for a number of years with the Continental Insurance Company, was in an intensive care unit at the local hospital, having collapsed with a bad heart attack a few days 

earlier. 
"Those of us who knew Don well will 

certainly remember him in our prayers for 
a speedy recovery. Don used to live in New 
Jersey, but I managed to keep up with 
him wherever he goes—^New Orleans and 
now Dallas. Was in Utica but could not 
contact VINCE FLETCHER or CHARLIE 
HITZLEBURGER. From friends I find 
they are both in good health. I am 
heading out to ND this week to attend 
commencement exercises. My son Gene 
is graduating and all the Geigers will be 
there. Doubt if I will see other classmates 
since I got a little late start on the marrying 
end of the field . . ." 
A moving story—HENRY S. "HANK" 

THOLEN has moved to 3075 Whitney Ave., 
Hamden, Conn. 06518. ROBERT E. BURG­
HART is now at 414 Linden, Winnetka, 
lU. 60093. And. ARNOLD WEINER left 
Indiana for 3550 N. Lake Shore Dr., 
Chicago 60657. Another state hopper is 
GEORGE ZIMMERMAN, out of Illinois 
to Crainfield Rd., Mountain Home, Ark. 
72653. Mountain Home sounds like a pretty 
good brand of drinking whisky. 
By the time you receive this, the 1971 re­

unions are over and everything points to 
1972. God bless you all till then. 
Florence J. McCarthy 
6 River Rd. 
Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583 
'33 JUBILEE CO.MING 
For many devoted years. Rev. JIM DONNELLY has baptized our babies, witnessed the marriages of our children, ministered to our sick, and buried our dead. On Nov. 15, Jim will celebrate the 25th anniversary of his ordination to the priesthood by the late Cardinal O'Hara, then a bishop. For a quarter of a century, our priest has served ND and the mission fields of Texas. Always following a grueling schedule, he still has never forgotten his old buddies from Brownson, Carroll, Sopho­more, Badin, Sorin and other halls. Now we can reciprocate by congratulating him on this holy and memorable occasion. To jot on your calendar, his address is: Rev. James A. Donnelly, CSC, Holy Family Parish, Copperas Cove. Tex., 76522, tele­phone 817-547-3735. When you get out our old yearbook, please look at the '32 football team photo on pages 186 and 187. Fr. Jim is the lean, hungry lad in the back row, eleventh from the right or, for that matter, eleventh from the left. 
PHIL FAHERTY attended the Villanova-ND basketball game in Philadelphia on Feb. 11. That wasn't the same ND team that beat UCLA. RAYMOND J. BRODERICK '35 was sworn in Monday, Mav 10, as a judge for the U.S. Court of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 
CHARLES "Fritz' HAFRON sent me the schedule of the San Francisco ND Club activities. 
LOU ALAMAN '37 has a son, Paul, who is playing offensive guard for the U. of Kentucky football team coached by John Ray, formeriy of the ND staff. Lou was the drum major of our era and was known affectionately as "Bookstore Louie" by all of us, includini; the late Cardinal O'Hara. By the way, Irene and I are godparents for Paul and we'll be fondly watching him. JACK HOYT attended, as a representative of our class, the Rev. FRANK HARRISON'S installation on April 22, 1971 as auxiliary bishop of Syracuse, N.Y. Thank you. Jack, for the material describing the concelebrated Mass of ordination and which included a beautiful portrait of Bishop Harrison, titular bishop of Aquae in Numidia. The presiding prelate was His Eminence Terence Cardinal Cooke, Archbishop of New York. Dr. ROBERT E. DONOVAN forwarded prints of the article by William 
F. Buckley, Jr., tided "Catholic College Stands Firm." 
McMahon Construction Co., Rochester, 

Ind., purchased the assets of J. C. O'Con­
nor & Sons of Fort Wayne. I recall JACK 
O'CONNOR coming to Connersville in the 
'30s to build Indiana Route 44 to Liberty. 
It is still an excellent road and runs just 
north of Brookville Lake, which will soon 
be an outstanding Hoosier recreation area. 
LOUIE CHREIST of South Bend for­warded the sad news of the death on Jan. 30, 1971 of PAUL RIGALI of Glenview, III. Paul had been with his family's business, the Daprato Statuary Co., for many years and was recently president of an interior design firm bearing his name. Survivors include his widow, Virginia, a son Paul A. Jr., and a daughter, Carol C. Condolences may be sent to Mrs. Rigall at 401 N. Branch Rd., Glenview, Dl. 60025. In a later mail, ANTHONY 
J. BORDA '70, wrote of the death of his father, JOSEPH L. BORDA, on May 2, 1971. I last visited with Joe at the Army-ND game in New York in 1969. Before that I'd see him when the Navy-ND games were played in Baltimore. We used the same parking lot. Sympathy for our classmate's loss may be extended to his son, Anthony J. Borda, 3745 McKinley St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20015. Need­less to say, Fr. Donnelly will remember our beloved dead in his prayers and Masses. He will also write to the families. Thank you again. Father. 
MAURIE DeWALD tells me he traveled from Ft. Wayne to Acapulco where he caught a sailfish. In an accompanying p'lolo, this monstrous aquatic creature dwarfed Maurie. His son, MAURIE Jr., '62 attended the ND Alumni Senate for the third time as a representative from San Jose, Calif. Last summer the DeWalds visited their daughter in Italy where she teaches a dependent school for the Air Force at Aviano. Finally he included a newspaper picture of his dad, George E. DeWald, in a 1917 EMF, a predecessor to the Stude­baker. I'll show that classic shot to the antique car buffs in my area; however, I'd like to know why, Maurie, you didn't look up LUCIO MUNIAN while you were in Mexico. 
A belated return from JOHN "Red" BARRETT established that he did go to the Cotton Bowl, and said it was about the best football he ever saw, maybe banning the 7-0 affair at Norman, Okla. a few years back. Red got across the river to Natchez and spent an enjoyable hour or two with Edith and PAT BURNS. My old Brownson roommate concluded his letter with the news that he'd be at the ND-Northwestem game, Sept. 18, and would stay at the Holiday Inn, Benton Harbor, Mich. Red, will you represent the '33 class at the A&CC reunion after the game? 
I am not sure which games I will attend this fall. If possible, we'll be at the Miami game in Miami on Oct. 9 and have tenta­tive plans to stay at the Carillon Hotel on the Beach. For a home game, along with a million others, we would like to see the Southern Cat game on Oct. 23. Perhaps Irene and I will squeeze in with BOB JOHNSON and Dr. LIPAK on their charter flight from Harrisburg, Pa. All in all, it looks like a good season. Please let me hear about your game trips. I especially wish to have a report about Gate 10 from LARRY SEXTON. 
More tra^c news — JAMES E. DIGAN "29 wrote of the death on May 21 of DONALD M. HAECKER. 6103 S. Tamiami Trail, Sarasota, Fla. 33581. He is survived by his widow, Helen, two daughters, Mrs. Dona Kimple and Mrs. Diane Dale, both of Toledo, Ohio, along with 11 grand­children and one great-grandchild. Jim mentioned that he was of Logansport and Chicago before moving to Florida and is now the sales representative in Sarasota for the Chicago White Metal Casting, Inc., phone (813) 922-7100. 
Judge MAURICE LEE's son, Robert, 
will be graduated from the ND Law 
School this August. His schooling was in­
terrupted by a stint in the service. Bob 
and his twin sister, Maureen Eva, have 
been favorites of the Conleys since 
babyhood. 
FRANCIS WALLACE '23 naU'onal chair­
man of the International Sports and Games 
Research Collection, appointed me to the 
committee. Their headquarters are located 
in the ND Memorial Library. Frank has 
written many wonderful articles and books 
about ND. On your next visit to the Book­
store browse through his books which 
make a worthwhile addition to any library. 
In Ireland I got a special recipe. Pan broil a ham steak and when it's done, pour off the fat in the pan, pour in a tablespoon of honey, along with a jigger of TuUamore Dew or other Irish whisky. Let it sizzle in the pan. To startle the neighbors set the whisky afire. If you don't like ham, toss it and drink the gravy! 
Charies A. Conley 
100 East Turnbull Ave. 
Havertown, Pa. 19083 
'34 AT WEDDING 
I have just returned to Elmhurst after spending a delightful week end at ND. My daughter Marcia and 1 attended the wedding of Katie Cahill, BOB and Mary CAHILL's beautiful daughter. The lucky man is Dr. James Mason Piawaty. He is an assistant professor of physics at De Paul U., Chicago. MOOSE KRAUSE and ELI SHAHEEN were able to attend also. The rest of my family attended a wedding at the Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md. 
Had a letter from RAY TROY who is a member of the law firm of Lum, Bivnno & Tompkins, 550 Broad St., Newark, N. J. 07102. I was surprised to receive a letter from Ray while in NJ . Usually he is in some other part of the country. He was looking for a membership card in an organization 1 started in 1960, "Make Ireland our 51st State." His son Rick wanted to join. I got in one heck of a mess with the State Department and the consul general of Ireland over that deal. 
Sorry to hear of the death of HARRY 
W. BLACK JR. '34 Harry's family lives at 2249 Briarwood Rd.. Cleveland Heights, Ohio 44118. No date of death given. 
Here are some new addresses: STEPHEN PETER BANAS, 16949 S. Western, Garden City, CaUf. 90247; WILLIAM HARVEY FROMM, JR., 344 Lathrop Ave., River Forest, 111. 60305; NICHOLAS P. LUKATS, 1979 Eastern Road, Borkenton. Ohio 44203; REV. BERNARD I. MULLAHY CSC, Via Framura 85, Rome, Italy, 00168; FRANK J. O'ROURKE. 835 Judson. Evaas­ton, in. 60202; HARVEY P. ROCKWELL JR., 2121 E 45th Street, Indianapolis, Ind. 46205; BERNARD J. CRONIN, 1498 Grandview CL, Arnold, Md. 21012; JOHN 
R. HANLEY, 333 N. CoquUlard Dr.. South Bend, Ind. 46617; THEODORE J. HIEGEL, Box 996, Conway Ark. 72032; CHARLES 
C. SCHIMBERG, 267 Indiandale Rd. S.E. Cedar Rapids, Iowa 52403; NORMAN E. WIETIG, 1090 Rue Fontaine, Decatur, Ga. 30034. 
Very sorry to hear of the death of NICH­OLAS MOLNER, 940 N. Drexel Ave., Indianapolis. Ind. 46201. Rev. WILLIAM TOOHEY CSC planned to say a memorial Mass on May 16. Nicholas died on April 15. 
Hugh E. Mulligan, Sr., president emeritus. International Assoc. Asbestos Workers, was buried on May 12. HUGH Jr. graduated from ND in 1950. Hugh, Sr. was made a member of the National Monogram Club some years back. Mulligan provided jobs for many ND men during the depression years. Bob Cahill and Edward "Moose" Krause attended the funeral. 
JOHN JOSEPH QUINN '30 served as 
Mulligan's secretary for many years. 
Received a get well note from JIMMY 
MORRISON after his return from a winter 
in the South. FRAN and Kay MATTHYS 
spent an evening with the Morrisons 
while down South. Fran is back full time 
as chief of plant protection for the 
E J & E RaSroad. He retired from the 
FBI some time ago. 
I weighed 152 pounds on the day we 
graduated. Today I'm down to 151. Never 
thought I could get down that low. 
No salt, no fat, etc. It really works. Had 
a get weU card from CHARLEY QUINN 
but no news. Also had another lovely 
card from Bob and Mary Cahill. 
Saw WALT KENNEDY, commissioner 
of the National Basketball Association on 
TV last night. He was in the Milwaukee 
Bucks locker room with the Big "O" and 
the Big "A." 
I was delighted to see a picture of JIM 
O'BRIEN SR. on the cover of Supply 
House Times. The magazine printed a 
story about Jim's new show room in 
Pittsfield, Mass. He is in the wholesale 
plumbing and heating business. His two 
sons Jim Jr. & Doug are also in the 
business. The name of the firm is Western 
Mass. Supply, Inc. and is located at 117­
4th St, in Pittsfield 01201. 
AUGUST VON BOECKLIN writes to 
tell about the merger of his Lifetime ' 
Federal Savings and Loan Association into 
Great Northwestern Federal Savings of 
Bremerton, Wash. Assets total 5113,000.­
000 and August is now vice chairman of 
the board and director of public affairs. 
Augie can be reached at 4117 Madrona 
Way, Tacoma, Wash. 98407. 
Talked to Msgr. JIM MOSCOW today. 
He promises to stop by some evening. 
TOM DAVID called today looking for tickets to the LSU game. If you have any to spare contact Tom at 1022 10th St. Alexandria. La. JOE FITZMAURICE of Washington D.C. is also looking for some. Joe was a member of the 1935 class. He is with the C.A.B. DAVE FROEHLICH will see the first three ND games this fall. He and Bemice will fly to Hawaii and then on to Japan. Received this note from the campus. Walter Kennedy, N.B.A. Commissioner was chosen as the l9th annual "fall guy" of the Circus Saints and Sinners Qub jumbo tent of Connecticut for a roast held May 12 at the Longshore Country Club, Westport, Conn. 
BERNIE HENNESSY reports that his son, Kevin, graduated from Yale this spring. His daughter, Nadine. will be a sophomore at Boston U. this fall. Nadine will be at Stockbridge this summer and will appear at the Berkshire Theatre Festival. His son, DAVID '69, is expected home from Malaysia, where he is with the Peace Corps. Bemie's son, Sean, will enroll at Cornell this fall. Bemie can be reached at 63 Mayfield St., Rochester, N.Y. 14609. 
I hope to be minus one gall bladder before the next deadline. Please say a little prayer for your secretary. 
Edward M. Moran 
2501 N. Central Ave. 
Chicago, 111. 60639 
'36 HEY BABY, QUE VASM 
1936 Attendees 
BERT BAUR. WILLIAM K. BAYER JR., HARRY BECKER, ROBERT BERNARD, DON BOCKEN. WILLIAM BOWES, 
ANTHONY BRICK. CLIFFORD F. BROWN, REV. JOHN C. BURKE, CONAL BYRNE. GEORGE CANNON, CHARLES CLARK, MORRIS B. COOPER. TED DALEY. JOHN DeMOTS, JOSEPH DONNING. PAUL DOYLE WA'V^IE FHURM, BILL FIEWEGER, JIM FOOHEY, WALLY FROMHART, FRED GABRIEL, LOUIS GABRIEL, WILLIAM F. GILLESPIE, TOM GRADY, PAUL A. GUARNIERI, LEO J. HOFSCHNEIDER, ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL, FRANK M. JOYCE, KEVIN O'NEILL KEHOE. EDWARD J. KEN­NEDY, JOHN KENNEDY, ALFRED KOLKA, KENNETH F. LAWS, M.D., ROBERT J. MacDONALD, JOSEPH MAHAR, ANTHONY "Tony" MAZZIOT­TI, EDWARD McNALLY, GEORGE McNEILE FRED McNEILL, TOM MEAGHER, GEORGE E. MILTON, JOHN MORAN, GILBERT MOTY, EDWARD R. NEAHER, JOHN 
W. NORTON, DAN O'BRIEN, MICHAEL O'CONNOR, JOHN ODENBACH, JIM O'KEEFE, LARRY S. PALKOVIC, JOE POMZEVIC, ALFRED ROHOL JR., S.A. "Tex" ROMERE PAUL RUBLY. CHARLES SCHAFFLER, JOHN L. SCHOONOVER, JOHN SCHAFFER, WILLIAM J. SCHMUHL. JAMES SHERRY, WOODROW STILLWAGON, MATT THERNES, EUGENE TOBIN, PAT TOFURI, THOS. J. TREACY. JERRY VOGEL, M. F. WALLENSACH. FRED WEBER, RENO ZARANTONELLO. 
'37 THEISiVL4NN FOR CONVERT 
BOB McCLAIN, associate publisher, House­wares Magazine, Cliicago based, gave us a report on the untimely death of JIM Mc-HUGH, the old manager. Jim was publish­ing director of Billboard Publications, Inc. also of Chicago, which publishes magazines as American Artist, Vend., etc. Jim passed away while at work. McClain also sees DICK RILEY, another newspaperman of Youngtown, Ohio and the Vindicator is his paper. BILL TUNNEY, the West Coast transplant baron, gets together with Bob at the Housewares shows in Chicago. Keep the news coming from suburban Des Plaines, Bob. Rev. BOB LOCHNER CSC celebrated his 25th anniversary with a Mass of thanksgiving at SL Edward's HS, Cleveland, then he will celebrate another Mass at the Cathedral of Our Lady of Peace, Honolulu. When on campus look Father Bob up at good old Badin Hall. 
Maj. Gen. FRANCIS L. SAMPSON, chief of US Army Chaplains will retire from the Army in August and may return to Des Moines, la. Diocese where he was ordained. RAY McGRATH has been named chairman of the board of Premier Engraving Co., Chicago. Now we know where to get our lottery tickets and "new" money. How about some real "gold bonds" Ray? This fellow and wife Madelene have eight children and hail from Michigan City, Ind. "Come on down" for the reunion Ray for some peace and quiet. EDDIE HOTT covered the Met affairs, one being the NY Club dinner honoring Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, CSC. HARRY PIERCE. Judge BILL SHEA of the Criminal Ct., NYC, ED NEAHER, USDA, Brooklyn also in attendance to honor Father John. At the NY Club dinner honoring Ara, PAUL FOLEY, new president of Inter-Public Agencies, was on the dais, trying to convert NJ JOE THHSMANN. Hoyt's family keeps active, with a daughter graduating from Paterson State and going with VISTA, and son, Jim, already in the Peace Corps in East Africa. Ed is still teaching at CCNY. Please remember his mother in your prayers, she passed away last year at the age of 94. Remember—Look over the football schedule, try to meet at the class section in the Convo Center after the games. JIM PARSONS is always there with a beer. 
J. P. Quinn Jr. 
P.O. Box 275, Lake Lenape Andover, N. J. 07821 
•38 'BABE' RECOVERS 

WALTER "Babe" MARSHALL deserves 
the headlines this time for a fine letter 

from his estate at 67 Reider Rd., Edison, 
NJ., where he has almost completely 
recovered from a broken back sustained 
in an auto accident in 1963; Enough to 
resume golf this spring! Up to then Babe 

had coached football for 26 years at such 
places as Coal Township, Pa., where his 
teams won state titles in 1950 and 1955, 
Northeast Catholic High in Philadelphia, 
and in College at Dartmouth with 

EARL BROWN '39 and MILT PIEPUL 
'41, Lafayette, Canisius, and 
at Auburn with his ole roomie JOHN 
MURPHY, whom he hopes to see at a 
football game at ND this fall. 

While recuperating Babe became an educational consultant for Mrs. Paul's Frozen Foods and five years ago was appointed department head of social studies at Irvington, NJ., high school— this time coaching teachers. Despite a heart attack in 1966, Babe's been working on his doctorate which he expects to complete in two years. Babe and his wife, Fran, who is now a librarian after 16 years as physical education teacher, have three daughters. 
Same day another letter came from another great guard of Joe Boland's line, HARVEY FOSTER, vice president of American Airlines wishing this great guard from the "B" team good luck in my mayor's race. My luck turned out to be as great as CHUCK SWEENEY'S. Four years ago I came in 3rd in a 10-man field—which doesn't pay oft in a donkey race. 
Got another letter from TOM MAKER, attomeying in Boston, saying he had been to ND to see his son. BARRY '71, grad­uate, had called my house and spoken to my son, PAT '66. Tom asked about ART PHILSON and DENNY EMANUEL, who made a memorable senior-year trip with us to Chicago, ERNIE KLING, TOM BOHEN, ED MANN, JOHN O'CONNOR, VINCE DUGGAN and the survivors of the Sorin sub: JOHN KELLY (where is he?), REDMAN DUGGAN, JOE THORNTON, and BUB CROWLEY. Denny, a family physician in Ottumwa, la., was here regularly while his son was at ND. Ernie Kling is in California where he plays the orpin like mad when he gets home evenings. Tom Bohen heads the business department of St. Thomas College, St. Paul, and checks my political philosophy regularly, with the help of his wife, Carmela, who started doing that during our senior ball. Ed Mann lawyers in Chicago is afraid to visit me since I tell everybody he couldn't keep step in the Marine Corps and I'm afraid to call him because he might bill me for legal advice; Johnny O'Connor is Indianapolis' leading lawyer since his partner Bill Ruckelshaus went to Washington to head the environmental crusade which I introduced him to when we served together in the Indiana House in 1967. Redman Duggan who became blind, recovered, and then went blind again was here to lecture on our foreign service several years ago. Bub Crowley is a drugstore tycoon in Kentucky and has a part interest in a race horse, but hasn't checked in with me nor has his hoise, for several years. 
Old faithfuls with their old faithfiil stories that become more embellished each year showed up for the Monogram reunion in June—ANDY PUPLIS and DAN GIBBS from Chicago, also HARVEY FOSTER; TOM WUKOVITS from Detroit. TOM JORDAN, CHARLEY BOROWSKI, DON HSHER. CHUCK SWEENEY and ED CRONTN (just made member of faculty board of athletics—look for more brainy plays) attended from South Bend. 
Ran into TOM FOY at his daughter 

Celia's graduation from St. Maiy's. Tom, 
elected a representative to the New Mexico 
legislature last year from Silver City, has 
a son, Tom Jr., who will be a senior next 
year; a daughter, Mary Aim, a sophomore 
at SMC, and two more sons at home, 
Carney and James. 
Thanks to Tommy Maher for phoning 

when here. Why don't the rest of you do 
the same? The rest of you take the lead 
from Babe Marshall and write, you hear? 
—SWEDE 
Bumie Bauer 
1139 Western Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 46625 
•40 SAEGERT ELECTED 
Although we might be considered older 
alumni in a certain sense, one of our 
class has received a distinct honor. GERRY 
SAEGERT has been elected president of 
the ND Club of New York. It is encourag­
ing to know that Gerry and many 
others of our class maintain the interest 
and spirit of their undergrad days by 
remaining active in the ND family. 1 
suggest that every one of the Men of 
'40 continue to participate in the functions 
of his local club. 
We had a really great UND night here in Dayton. Ara Parseghian was the featured speaker and although Kay and I are rather new in town, it was great to be with our own people. Our Dayton club is amazingly active and successful in this Ohio State territory. Have seen JOHN FERNEDING from time to time around town. Had a pleasant remim'scing evening with FRED "Bud" ROBERTSHAW and his wife, Helen, at their home near Cin­cinnati. JERRY RYAN '41, and his wife. Alma, and Mr. and Mrs. Vince Beckman (Betty) were also present. It was sort of a double reunion on a small scale. The four SMC girls were all from the class of '42, and three of them with ND husbands. One of my summer school students caddied for a special golf outing held recently in Dayton. He carried the bags for JOE DEFRANCO who was among the celebrities here. Although I did not get to see Joe, word was capably transmitted. Rev. LAWRENCE I. FERGU­SON wrote an interesting letter. Our Episcopal man of '40 received the ND Man of the Year Dallas Club award. He has been active in a vast variety of efforts which keep him young and involved. Fr. Lawrence mentioned that he lectured in a class at Dallas County Junior College taught by WALT FLEMING'S son, Lee. 
Our president, JIM DELAHANTY, is the busiest retired executive around South Bend. He and Maggielee are on the go constantly and difficult to track down these days. Rev. JOHN PAYNE, CSC, was back at ND from Austin for the celebration of his 25th anniversary of ordination in June. JIM DONOGHUE sent a clipping about Brig. Gen. LEO SANTINI and his activities vrfth the 353rd Civil Affairs Area of New York. 
Received word of the death of JOHN 

F. KELLVs wife, Emily. We men of '40 will remember her, you, John, and your family in our prayers as we do all those close to the Class of '40. 
BUD LINNEHAN wrote a note asking about Rev. BILL TOBIN. The last word' 1 had. Bud, was that about a year ago Fr. Bill was appointed provincial of the Servants of the Holy Paraclete Order and stationed in Jemez Springs, N.M. (Ed. Note —Fr. Tobin died in May in Denver, Colo.) 
This is a rather short column, so it is time for you reluctant correspondents to forward some news. Just send it to "Shorty." 
Robert G. Sanford 947 Oakcreek Dr. Dayton, Ohio 45429 '41 70 SHOW UP 
Despite advance reservations only 70, my count, showed up for our 30th reunion. Last-minute problems, both business and personal, caused last-minute cancellations by some of our well-intentioned classmates. Most of the 70 returnees expressed strong intentions of returning for the 35th. Let's all start planning now for 1976. 
I managed to say a few words to each one and did glean a little information about each attendee and I'll be filling in little blurbs for the issues to come. The deadline for this article is June 22 and I am due back from vacation on June 21, so the column may be a little short. Had a letter from WALT BRENNAN who is practicing medicine (psychiatry) in Alexandria, Va., who wanted very much to make the reunion but a demanding schedule prevented it. JOE BARR has been re-elected judge of the third Judicial Circuit of Madison and Bond Counties, 
III. Joe has been on the Circuit Court bench for 13 years. HUTCH KORTH has moved his airline headquarters (SaturnAirways, Inc.) from Miami to Oakland, Calif. Saturn is in both passenger and cargo chartering and has done some charter work for the Univeisity. 
Had a letter from Ann Vogelwede, FRED'S widow, informing me of FRED's death in April of 1971, of lung cancer. Fred has two sons graduated from ND. She presently resides in Mexico where Fred was the managing partner for Haskins and Sells. Heard also at reunion of the death of EDWARD F. "Duke" MURPHY. At the time of his May 12 death, Duke was a vice president for purchasing and marketing for Halstead Metal Products at Zcbienopole, Penn. 
Spent some time with HERB SCHAFLY outside Sacred Heart Church and was delighted to read just a few days later that he had been named president of Teleprompter, Inc. He had been a senior V.P., and it is great to see him running this very important operation. 
FRANK WEMHOFF — President of Caldwell-Van Riper, Inc., an advertising and public relations firm at Indianapolis has been elected to the board of governors of the American Association of Advertising Agencies. JIM LANG of Delpus, Ohio, won the driving contest for "senior" alumni with a "drive" of 240 yards. There is some question whether this was wind-aided or did it receive some other assistance, but Jim's playing partners will admit it was a long one. Spent quite some time listening to FRANK McGROODER and JERRY HAMMER discuss Frank's latest endeavor which is associated with L & B; sounds great — but maybe too much of the latter. 
The seminars on abortion and student power drew quite a few attendees, but nothing new on abortion was learned by DAN BRODERICK who is unalterably opposed, as we all know. Dan drove to the campus with BILL COTTER, in Dan's un-airconditioned Cad. Some of us were quite upset at some of the observations on student power, but in this day and age nothing should shock us. 
One item that can't be overlooked is that JACK O'BRIEN of Dayton, who lost his wife some years back did marry again, and he married the widow of BILL HOYNE our classmate. The new merger resulted in a family of 12 children, six of Jack's and six of Bill's. One of Jack's sons was back for his fifth reunion, with Jack. We were all treated to a fine Mass by Rev. PAT O'DONNELL of the Glenmary Fathers, in Farley Hall. It was very well done and there was good participation by all. 
Some of us were also lucky enough to catch a Mass at Flanner Hall, in air-condi­tioned comfort, said by Father LYNCH, for the Class of '26. This Hall is a big improve­ment over anything we ever had. HOWIE ESSICK was in good shape and had to 

hurry back home for his oldest daughter's 
forthcoming wedding, JOHN Mc CAULEY 
is now associated with a seminary in 
Evansville as a fund raiser and assures 
me that there is no danger of it going 
co-ed. 
I certainly hope that all who promised 
to write or call and keep me informed 
will do so, even if it is only intermittently. 
Let's hear from you so I can keep all 
of us informed. The column can only be 
as good as your cooperation will make 
it, so let's start calling or writing. 
1941 Attendees 
DONALD BOSS, DANIEL BRODERICK, BOB BYRNES, JAMES CARROLL, DONALD CASSIDY. EDWARD COLBERT, TOM CONNOR, EDGAR COREY, BILL COTTER, WALTER J. CRONIN, WILLIAM DALY, BILL DOMINIC, RICHARD J. DORA, GENE DUCKWORTH, ED EDMONDS, HOWARD ESSICK, GEORGE W. FERRICK, BEN FISHBURNE, RALPH GERRA, HARRY GOTTRON, ALFRED 
J. HAMMER JR., FRANK HOPKINS, ROBERT JEHRING, ELMER KAMM, JOHN J. KANE, BROTHER THEODORE RAPES, JAMES LANG, SAL LAPILUSA, BERNARD LIENHARD, ARMAND LOPEZ, JOHN LUCAS, JOHN MacCAULEY, LOUIS MacKENZlE, WILLIAM MALANEY, RUBE MAR­QUARET, MICHAEL McCAUGHEY. 
DAVID MCDOWELL, JAMES McGOVERN, FRANK J. McGRODER, JOHN A. MIES. JOSEPH MONTEGNA. ROCCO MONTEGNA, JOHN MORTELL, JAMES H. MURRAY, DONALD R. MURTAGH, JOE P. NEENAN, JAMES 
G. NEWLAND, JOHN O'BRIEN, JOHN 
D. O'BRIEN. RICHARD O'CONNOR, BOB ODENBACH, REV. PATRICK O'DONNELL, JOSEPH B. OLBRYS, JOHN OLOUGHLIN, EDWARD POSNER, JOHN PROPECK, PAUL PUGLIA, GEORGE RASSAS, JAY REYNOLDS, LEO ROBIDOUX, ROBERT RONSTADT, GENE RYAN, VINCENT SCHIRF, HUBERT SCHLAFLY, FRANK SHEETS. JOHN SIEVERT, BOB STACK, CHARLES STINE. DAN SULLIVAN, JAMES TEAGARDEN, DONALD TIEDEMANN. JAMES R. TINNY, HAWLEY VANSWALL, DICK WALTER, ROBERT WATTERS. ROBERT WELLY, WILLIAM C. WILSON, ROBERT L, ZUBRES. 
Bill Daly 
1204 Indian Springs Rd. 
Glendora, Calif. 91740 
'42 EIGHT IN JL'BILEE 
Among those celebrating the 2Sth anniver­sary of ordination as Holy Cross priests this year are eight '42 grads. They are Rev. WILLIAM J. BRINKER CSC, now at Notre Dame High School, Niles, lU.; Rev. CASIMIR J. CZAPLICKI CSC, assistant pastor of Holy Trinity Parish, Chicago; Rev. JAMES B. DOLL CSC, of ND's Lobund Laboratory; Rev. WILLIAM F. HICKENS CSC, of the foreign missions in Bengal; Rev. CHARLES 
R. HAUSER CSC, of East Pakistan; Rev. HOWARD A. KUHNS CSC, chaplain for brothers at Holy Cross Junior College, ND; Rev. JOSEPH F. MURPHY CSC, assistant pastor at Holy Cross Church, South Bend, and Rev. JOSEPH A. ROGUSZ CSC, assistant pastor of Holy Trinity, Chicago. 
We received from EMMETT KEENAN the sad news of the sudden death of JIM DOYLE, his partner of 22 years in a CPA practice, who died of a heart attack in his office in Davenport, la., April 27, with no previous warning of any difficulty. Emmett also mailed me some clippings from the Quad-City newspapers which contained adulations of community services that Jim received. 
BOB MAYOTTE is now advertising and 
sales promotion manager for the Kimberly-
Clark Corp. in Neenah, Wis. Kimberly-
Clark is one of the largest companies in 
the paper products industry, like Kleenex. 
Bob and his wfe and three daughters now 
reside at 612 Chatham Ct, Nesaah, 
Wis. 54956. Drop him a line congratulating 
him on his promotion. And whOe you 
are in a writing mood, drop your class 
secretary a few lines with any news you 
think would be of interest to your 
classmates. It would be very much 
appreciated. 
waiiam M. Hickey 
5500 West 73rd St. 
Chicago, lU. 60638 
'43 OUR LOOKS CHANGE 
Your secretary was on campus for graduation weekend to attend a concert by the ND Glee Club to which junior-to-be son, Michael, belongs. Shortly thereafter the club embarked on a three-week concert tour of Europe. 
Attended Mass with HARRY WRIGHT and son, Jim, who was graduating. Harry scouts for the New York Giants, and JIM '71 joined the team as a player. Another son, Tom, is a halfback on this year's ND team. As we were standing in front of Sacred Heart, a woman approached and asked if it was a Catholic Church. Harry replied, "Frank, I knew our looks had changed, but I didn't know we didn't look Catholic any more." 
Met MARK LIES and ED MURRAY who were on campus for their sons' graduation. They reported that HERB MILTON, BART RAMSOUR and PAUL TOLAND also had sons graduating this year and attended the ceremonies. 
LEO LEWIS writes from St. Louis that he hopes to attend the Southern Cal game. Leo reports seeing BILL HORN­BERG who is residing and practicing law in Clayton, Mo. EUGENE A. MILLER has been promoted to trust officer of the Liberty National Bank and Trust Co., Buffalo, N.Y. He joined Liberty in 1967. He lives with his family at 31 Kingsgate Rd.. Amherst, N.Y. 
If you have sons or daughters attending ND or SMC, let the fact be known through the column. Junior and sophomore Kaisers (Mike and Pat) will be in Grace Tower. 
Frank W. Kaiser 307 E. Cherry Chatsworth, 111. 60921 
•44 JOE GALL REPORTS 
This column should be headed the JOE GALL column in appreciation for the cooperation and help he has given this secretary in the past seven years. No person has been a better correspondent and contributor of Class of '44 news items than has Joe. 
Recently Joe and his wife anticipated their 25th wedding anniversary by having a vacation in Hawaii and California. He met his wife in California while in the Navy and vowed that someday he would revisit Hawaii and San Francisco. The time arrived. 
The oldest Gall son, Joe Jr., spent 2V4 years at West Point and, after completing an Army commitment, was accepted as a transfer student at ND. Son No. 2 completed his sophomore year at ND this spring. Probably the two will be graduating together in '73. Son No. 3 will be a Mgh school senior in fall and hopes to enter ND the following year. Does ND have special rates for three from one family being there at the same time? 
Shocknessy Trovers Jr. Cronin 
Hannan Puffer Pesoli 
James W. Shocknessy '28 was elected chairman of the board of trustees of Ohio State U. The election of Shocknessy, Columbus at­torney and chairman of the Ohio Turnpike Commission, was hailed in editorials of most of the state's major newspapers. 
John H. Travers Jr. '33 has been invited by U.S. Secretary of Com­merce Maurice H. Stans to be a member of the Regional Export Expansion Council in the Buffalo, N.Y., area. Travers is executive vice president of the Retail Merchants Association of Buffalo and also of the Main Street Association. 
Bernard J. Cronin '34 is now director of personnel of the Social Security Administration. He started his career with the administration in 1947 as an employee counselor. He is married to the former Eliza­beth Grob. With their four sons, they live at Rt. 1, Box 79, Sevema Park, Md. 21146. 
William J. Hannan '40 is the principal speaker in a series of institutes sponsored during 1971 by the National Foundation of Health, Welfare and Pension Plans. Hannan, associate director of labor relations for the Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co., lives at 258 Farrington Ave., Tarrytown, N-Y. 10591. 
Steven E. Puffer '43 has been awarded the Florida Air Force Associa­tion's top award for distinguished service to U.S. security. Puffer, who is director of the Minuteman III guidance program at Honeywell's Aerospace Division in St. Petersburg, Fla., received the Gen. Lewis 
H. Brereton Award May 1 at the association's state convention. 
Peter L, Pesoli '48, M.A. '52 has received the 1971 Teaching Excel­lence Award at St. Edward's U., Austin, Tex. Pesoli joined the St. Edward's faculty in 1955 after two years as a teacher in Rome, Italy. He and his wife. Donna, operate the Montessori School of Austin. 
Upon Joe's return home to Nashua, N.H., another letter came. It contained a news release from the Boston Herald about fellow classmate ED KEELAN, Ocean BluRs, Mass. Ed is co-owner of the Raynham Track and presently is serving his second one-year term as president of the American Greyhound Track Operators Assoc. He feels that dog racing is the fastest growing sport in America and has traveled extensively endorsing his game wherever an interest is shown. Now it is staged in seven states which have a total of 37 tracks. He has hopes of expansion in Ireland, England and Australia. 
Joseph A. Neufeld 
Post Office Box 853 Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
•45 SAD FAREWELL 
One of the men who most typified the Class of '45, and who did so much to keep it together, a real classmate to all of us, died on April IS, 1971. DAVID R. CARTWRIGHT was one of the most popular members of the class, a truly warm and gentle man. I remember Dave from Breen-Phillips days before his NROTC career. He was a good student and I needed help several times from him. He reviewed the work with me cheerfully and explained it to me on several occasions. We remained good friends through that endless war period of aggravation, rationing, draft deferments, tough physics exams, and the split in our class into "civvies" and those who went into V-12, NROTC, ERC, etc. 
I remember, as if it were yesterday, standing by the statue of Father Sorin in 1943. . . . Five of us representing the student body segments at the University then, with Dave at the left, smart in his NROTC uniform. That picture was to appear several times in the Scholastic, once as its cover. Dave, helpful and friendly as always, gave to the project. 
Then, most of all, I remember going back to school for the 5-year reunion in 1950 which was so disastrous since only seven of us were there. It looked like there wotdd never be a Class of '45 reunion again, the showing was so miserable that first time around. 1 remember Dave standing up at a small supper we had in a small restaurant in downtown South Bend, plunking down S2 to start off our class treasury, and nominating me as class secretary. The other five class members present quickly voted affirmative. And thus Dave began the class organization and the class spirit on its way. Now that wonderful and warm friend of ours has passed away, such a deep loss to his family and friends. 
Services for Dave were held on April 19, at St. Ann's Catholic Church in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. In expression of the University's sorrow, and in remembrance, a Mass was said at ND by Rev. WILLIAM TOOHEY CSC on April 25. 
Dave was a member of the boards of the ND Club of Cleveland, St. Vincent DePaul Society, and Catholic Big Brothers. He was a WWII Navy veteran. Dave was active in his church, commentator, server; he truly helped wherever he could, and that alone made him stand out above us all. 
Dave, at age 46, succumbed to a heart attack. He had had the first attack some three years ago, but was fully recovered. He was president of his own PR agency, Cartwri^t and Associates. The second attack was unexpected, and Dave lived only two hours after it began. His wife, Marilyn, writes that, "Dave must have gone straight to heaven, he was such a good and gentle person. He truly loved ND and never missed an opportuni^ to visit I can see that I have many years of work cut out for me . . . work that we had planned and looked forward to doing together. But now .. . I am sure 
the Good Lord and Our Lady will see 
me through." 
Surviving, besides his widow, are his 
children, David (22); Thomas (21); 
Roberta (20); Candy (18); Tim (17); 
Terry (13); Marilyn (9); and Lisa (6). Also 
surviving are his father, two sisters, and 
four brothers. And the bereaved members 
of his class who will feel his deep loss 
for always. 
A. V. Lesmez 122 Tullamore Rd. Garden City, N.Y. 11530 
'46 REUNION IS HISTORY 
The 2Sth Reunion is now history but I'm 
certain that for those who attended it will 
be a weekend that will never be forgotten. 
Believe me, although the Class of '46 
may be small in size it certainly was big 
in heart and spirit at this memorable 
occasion. For those who unfortunately 
were unable to be present all I can say is 
you missed an exciting and enjoyable 
Reunion. 
To mention some of the highlights: we 
had the privilege of having Rev. JACK 
EGAN, brother of classmate JIM EGAN, 
say a most memorable Mass for the 
Class of '46. In addition, having the honor 
and presence of Father THEODORE 
HESBURGH, ND President, at the class 
luncheon was most interesting. Fr. Hesburgh 
pulled no punches in answering the many 
questions put to him by our group. 
A money tree was presented to Fr. Hesburgh 
at the conclusion of the luncheon. Also, 
Fr. Hesburgh was gracious enough to 
wear a replica of the class emblem at the 
banquet held on Saturday evening. 
One of the most touching events took place when BOB ROSSITER arrived on campus. You may recall that Bob was blind when he attended ND. Well after Bob graduated he had an operation and part of his sight was restored. It's really a miracle and certainly very heart-warming to hear Bob say, "It's a wonderful feeling to See many of my schoolmates for the first time in 25 years." The best of luck and success to you. Bob, you've been a tremendous asset to the Class of '46. 
Heart-filling thanks must go to FRANK FOSS and ED MIESZKOWSKI who headed up the local arrangements committee.. They did one bang-up job. Thanks again, Frank and Ed. 
The bull sessions and the numerous stores that took place, both under the refresh­ment tent and in the classroom suite in Farley Hall, are just too numerous to mention. Those contributing to the many laughs and enjoyable sessions were: FRANK PAULSON, BARNEY SLATER, DICK WILSON, JOHN POWER, VINCE JACOBS, JOHN McINERNEY, BILL DUNNE, FRAN FOSS. BOB ROSSITER, BRO. BARRY LAMBOUR, BOB WELCH, NICK COMMISA, JIM CRONIN, ELMER ANGSMAN, ART KERNEN, TOM SCHREIBER, JOHN PRAWDZIK, FRANK KOWALSKI, BILL FAHRNER, JOHN HEYVAERT, JIM EGAN, HARRY SURKAMP, JOHN McGUIRE, TOM BURNS, ED MIESZKOWSKI, "Chick" MAGIOLI, STEVE NEMETH, ARTHUR MULHOLLAND, THOMAS SHULER, ED "Cleveland, Miss." DE­LOACH and in absentia PAUL DOYLE. Although Paul was unable to attend because of a business commitment, his name will long be remembered. Those in attendance, I'm sure, can attest to this. It's quite a story in disguise. 
I forgot to mention that Bob Welch added a bit of honor to his class. Bob won an award for hitting the longest drive (265 yards) on the golf course. 
Officers elected at the reunion class meeting were: Ed Mieszkowski, president; Tom Bums, 1st V. President; John 
McGuire, 2nd V. President; Harry Sur­
kamp. Treasurer; Nick Commisa, Class 
Secretary, and Frank Foss, Corre­
sponding Secretary. 
Well, time has come to say that it is with 
my deepest regret that this will be my 
last column as your class secretary. 
Because of being involved in local politics 
and other vital activities, both at work 
and in my home town of Greenwich, 
I just had to step down. Believe me, it 
was a pleasure and an honor to have served 
as your secretary for the past 10 years 
and 1 hope and trust that you'll give 
Nick Commisa, your new secretary, the 
cooperation and help that were extended to 
me. Nick's a great guy and a ND man 
all the way, so why not, at your leisure, 
sit down and drop Nick some news? His 
address is 211 Harrison St., Apt 27A, 
Nutley, NJ. 
If I missed anyone who attended, please 
forgive me and write to Nick and I'm 
sure it will make the next issue. 
Again, many thanks to Ed, Frank and 
each and every one of the attendees for 
a weekend that will be remembered 
by me as long as I can remain a member of 
that great and exciting Class of '46. 
Hope to see all of you and many 
more at the 30th! 
Peter P. Richiski 
6 Robin Place 
Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
•47 YARBENET BUSY 
Here are a few excerpts from a letter sent by MICHAEL YARBENET, certified public accountant, Erie, Pa. Mike writes that he has been terribly busy with his practice, teaching, and activiu'es. His son, Doug, received his degree in accounting and expects to go to Lima, Peru, in the Peace Corps, next month. His daughter, Carole, is returning on Aug. 2 from a year in New Zealand as a Rotary Scholar. 
Please keep the news coming in. Remember '72 for a really big 25th reunion! 
James J. Shea 
35 Liberty Terrace 
Ashley, Pa. 18706 
•49 10th WESLEY 
Is there such a thing as editorial privilege? Of the type that permits of openly bragging about a spectacular addition to one's family? Well, Daniel George Wesley arrived early on April 22 and has continued to dazzle one and all with his good looks, good nature and his 1-o-o-o-o-ng naps. ("Paternal Inheritance" on that last item, says Joan.) Dan is the fourth boy and the tenth member of our squad of youngsters. Faith and Mary at 18 and 17 wince at that word, "youngsters." 'Nuff said . . . but I had to tell you about this future linebacker. He's great! 
Last issue I mentioned a family of 
champions living in West Virginia. RAY 
KEYS, comptroller of Blue Ribbon Paint 
Co. in Wheeling wrote me a "six-pager" 
in reviewing the 21V4 years since graduation. 
Physical conditioning is an integral part 
of that family's upbringing, I'll tell you. 
After reading Ray's most enjoyable letter, 
I realized that everyone in the family 
took an active part in at least one sport 
and learned to excel. I recalled that Ray 
himself, as an ND tennis team member, 
was a "digger" and doggedly advanced from 
No. 20 on the squad to No. 6 or No. 7. 
The family followed his example with these 
results: son, Joey (age 19) is Asst. Pro 
(Tennis) at Ogleby Park in Wheeling. 
He was W.Va. state champ for 18-year-oIds and underclass last year. As a freshman, ha was No. 1 on the Bethany team. Mary (age 17) was W.Va. state champ for 17-year-olds, W.Va. open champ for 14-year-olds (all this is tennis, again). Western Pa. champ for 16-year-olds and in fencing was W.Va. and Western Pa. champ for 15-year-olds. She also captains her basketball team. Mrs. Keys (Madelyn) boasts a bowling trophy for highest average. While Ray proudly disidays his volleyball champion team trophy, earned as player-manager. Young Paul and Dave Keys are showing speed and good moves on the clay courts, so they, too, will undoubtedly add to the more than 40 trophies that Mary and Joey have garnered .. . in tennis, golf, baseball, fencing and basketball. Some kind of family! If he owned a plane, they'd probably all be skydivers. Fine letter, Ray! Our thanks. 
When I mentioned last time that the 
mail was improving, I had good cause; 
not only Ray's letter, but a very fancy 
two-color production job printed by 
CHUCK BAUMAN and his wife, Gwen, 
and their children: David, Cheryl, Eric and 
Mark. Chuck works for Standard Fruit 
Co. in—get this!—in Davao, SCO mBes 
south of Manila in the Philippines, Yet they 
have an ND contact even "down there," 
one of Chuck's friends from St. Mary's and 
MaryknoU—Sister RAMONA OPPEN­
HEIM, who was transferred last year 
to Panabo, a mere 20 kilometers 
from Davao. 
Chuck annually makes four trips to the States on business, so Gwen and the children take turns seeing iriaces en route like Bangkok, Hongkong, Taipei, etc. Travel, many different kinds of school for the children. Unbelievable scenery and culinary delights—20 years of moving for the Baumans. But, God bless 'em! they never fail to keep me posted. 
I was going to give you some hot news on CHUCK ROSS JR. only to find that I was scooped by the "Congrats" column in the June ALUMNUS which featured Chuck with photo and the news of his appointment as a vice president of Parkview-Gem, Inc., the drug and discount store chain based in Kansas City. Nice goin'. Chuck! 
Speaking of appointments—try these on your guitar! Bro. RAYMOND DUFRESNE CSC has been appointed principal of Holy Cross High School in River Grove, 
111. Brother had taught in high schools in Connecticut and Massachusetts and at ND International School in Rome before drawing his assignment to River Grove in 1963. I'd say he's ready for the best that River Grove can deliver. 
ROBERT T. TIERNEY has been pro­moted from highway design engineer to deputy chief engineer for the Massachusetts State Department of Public Works. Bob has been with the department for 21 years. One more—^JAMES WIELAND, chairman of the Department of Religious Studies at Sacred Heart U., Bridgeport, Conn., presided at the conven­tion of the College Theology Society, Apnl 12-14, in St. Paul, Minn. Jim, by the way, received his M.A. at ND in '51 and lives at 107 Tersana Dr., Easton, Conn., with his wife and son. 
I have used nearly all the news items I had available, so I fall to begging once again. Please drop a note to your secretary—^that's me! It doesn't have to be a "6-pager," a la Ray Keys. Postcards are fine. Like our Rochester-famous Xerox machines. I can handle any kind of paper. You supply an idea, memo, comment or note about yourself and/or classmates you've seen and 111 spread the word. 
Anyone going to the Southern Cal game? I'm going to bring a couple of my boys to that one, plus my trusty notebook. See you at the '49 reunion bar after the game. .. . I ought to be able to catch some news commentary there. Just keep talking I'll find you! 
Leo L. Wesley 
155 Driftwood Lane 
Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
'51 L.A..ME DUCK L.VMEN'T 

But better lame than herniated. Here it is July 6 and I'm still waiting. The reunion crowd has left, the fireworks are all shot, and so am L Been waiting for the election to congratulate the new secretar>', but so far the election has not come off. How could you guys do this? 
It was a pleasure to see the not-so-old gang. Among those who missed, JOE PERT was moving two block., down his street to 822 Columbia Drive, San Mateo, Ca!:f. Joe was back in April to talk on "Sales and Marketing as a Career" in our business school. Joe is V.P. and sales manager of John M. Cole Co. in Redwood City. He has just been appointed to the board of directors of Associated Equipment Distributors, the 1,400-member trade association of the construction equipment dealers. Joe and Norma have two children. Joe and Marie. Young Joe starts his soph year at ND this fall, and Marie will be a high school junior. 
Going to break with long-standing tradition and consider law graduates, other advanced dei;ree holders, and religious as human beings. JIM WETZEL '51L is now with Coffee, Wetzel & Sweeney, 20 N. Wacker Dr., Suite 2340, Chicago, 
111. 60606. This new firm specializes in patents, trademarks, copyrights, unfair competition, etc. The "Sweeney" in the firm is JIM SWEENEY, that well-rounded fellow who was graduated from the College of Science a year before us. Jim W. and his family still reside at 1400 Wincanton in Deerfield, 111. 
Saw BOB WESTRICK and he regretted 
missing our reunion; he wanted to 
congratulate NICK SCALERA on his 

elevation to the bench in New Jersey. Bob 
is building a substantial addition to the 
house, and his mother-in-law was ill at 

reunion time; she is now better. Let's join 
Bob in pointing for the silver 
reunion 1976. 
1951 Attendees 

REV. JAMES SHILTS, JOHN NESTER, ALFRED E. ABBEY. ROBERT AFFELDT, 
DAVID J. AMBERG, JACK AMRHEIN, BILL ANHUT, JOSEPH AUCREMANNE, AL BAILEY, JAMES BAKER, PATRICK 
BARRETT, PATRICK J. BARRETT, HOMER BARTON, JOHN J. BECKER, JAMES BEGLEY, JAMES BENBOW, JAMES M. BLUM. JACK BODOLAY, JACK BOEHM. THOMAS BOLAND, JAMES BOYLE. ROBERT BOYNE, ERV BRENDEL, LEO BRENNAN, REV. 
FREDERICK BRICE, JOSEPH G. 

BURGUR, BILL CAREY, JAMES CARROLL, TOM CARROLL, JOSEPH CHANIGA, JOHN J. CLEARY, RICHARD CLEARY. BOB CLEMENCY, W. C. CLEMENTS, WALTER COLLINS, CLIFF COLLINS, DANIEL CONNELL, TOM COSTELLO, FRANK CROVO. DON DANIELS, EUGENE DeBORTOLI, JOHH DEEB, NICHOLAS DeFILIPPIS, CHARLES DESCH, NORBERT DRZAZGOWSKL PAUL F. DWVER, ROBERT EDMONDSON, CARL EIFERT, DICK FELDPAUSCH, DAN FINN, ROBERT FINNEGAN, PETE FLAHERTY, BERNARD FRANZ, JAMES W. FRICK, LAWRENCE GALLAGHER, RICHARD GARRITY, JOSEPH GAYDOS, JOHN GELLER, JOHN GERLITS, JOHN GERWE, JAMES P. GHIGLIERI, JIM GILLIS, WILLIAM GREIF, DONALD GROBMYER, ALBERT GUARNIERL DAVID GUSHURST, WILLIAM HAGAN, JOHN HALEY, BERNARD J. HANK, JR., 
E. S. HAGERTY, JOSEPH HARRISON, HERSH HARVEY, WILLIAM HARTY, 
WULF HASS, ROBERT HAUTER, HUGH KENNEDY, JAMES HENNESSY, HUGH HENRY, JR., STEPHEN F. HERR, DICK HERRLE, TOM HINKES, WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT, TOM HUBER STAN INSLEY, MICHAEL A. JACOBS, JOHN H. JANOWSKI, RAY JONARDI, RICHARD JORDAN, JIM JENNINGS, TEDD JONES, THOMAS KIGIN, BOB KLINGEN­BERGER, JIM KOHN, JIM LaCESA, JOHN LANAHAN, B. J. LAVINS, RUSSELL LESPERANCE, THOMAS LOGAN, EDGAR LUCAS, HENRY T. MADDEN, EDWARD MAGNER, ROBERT J. MAHONEY, REV. PAT MALONEY, ROBERT MARGET, LAWRENCE MAY, JOSEPH PAT McATEER, HOWARD McDONALD, THOMAS McGEE, ROBERT McGLYNN, JAMES McGUIRE, WILMER MCLAUGH­LIN, RANDALL McNALLY, JOHN McSHANE, JACK McVEIGH, JOHN MENDOZA, THOMAS MEYER, JOHN MOORE, JACK MORGAN, JIM MORI­ARTY, JOHN MULDOON, GEORGE MURPHY, ROBERT MURPHY, AL MUTH, DAVE NAUGHTIN, JOSEPH NAUGHTON, MAURICE NOONAN, RAYMOND O'CONNOR, REX O'CON­NOR, CHARLES O'DONNELL, JAMES J. O'DONNELL, DAVE O'LEARY, DENNIS O'NEILL, JIM O'TOOLE, LAWRENCE PANOZZO, CHUCK PERRIN, TED PRAHINSKI. W. M. PUETZ, JOSEPH RIGALI. DONALD RODRIGUEZ, RUDOLPH ROG, JOHN ROHRBACH, 
VINCENT STE. MARIE, NICHOLAS SCALERA, JIM SCHMITT, DAVID SCHOEN. GEORGE SCHWIND, TOM SHEEHAN, JAMES SHEERIN, JOSEPH SHELLY, CHARLES SHEWALTER, WILLIAM SIMPSON, TOM SNYDER, DONALD R. SONDAG, HOBE TAYLOR. RICHARD TEPE, DICK UHL, EDWARD 
J. VANTASSEL, HAROLD G. VAN TASSEL, JAMES VOGEL, ANDREW J. WALSH. ALLEN WARD, KEN WAT­KINS, GEORGE WEBER, JIM WETZEL, JOHN WHALEY, JOSEPH R. WILDE­MAN, HAL WITTROCK, BILL WOM­BACHER, JOHN K. WORTHINGTON, RAY YANICS. 
Jim Jennings 
Borg-Wamer Corp. 200 S. Michigan Ave. Chicago, 111. 60604 
•52 MAHOG.\NY ROOM 
The pre-'72 class reunion is all set for the Mahogany Room at the Morris Inn following the ND vs. S. Cal. game on Oct. 23. 
Received a great letter from ED FOLEY stationed in Washington, D.C., after having spent 13 years in the New York City area. Ed has spent his time with the FBI and is now residing in Bowie, Md., with his wife and six children. Without leaving the building at the Justice Department, Ed can get three classmates for lunch. TOM EMERY and GEORGE FOSTER are with the FBI and BOB HICKEY is a departmental attorney. Others in the class who stayed with the FBI are HANK CROWLEY in NYC, JIM GRAHAM in Kansas City and JIM MULLANEY in Medford, Ore. Ed also has living in his area BILL TOOMEY who is with the Securities & Exchange Comm. and BOB D'ORSEY who is in the insurance business in RockviUe, Md. In nearby Baltimore BILL RYAN is with the city school system after spending many years with tiie Jesuits there. 
JIM MUTSCHELLER, in addition to his insurance business, is now engaged in working with youngsters from impoverished circumstances. JOE CAPRANA, after a couple of tours in Vietnam, is back in the U.S. with the Marines as a lieutenant colonel. 
In Boston, ANDY DOOLEY completed law school recently and has now moved 

into the legal section of Lumberman's 
Insurance—an outfit he has been with 
for over 15 years. 
In Louisville, JOE BOWLING is still his 
smiling self—in spite of his responsibilities— 
eight great kids, a lovely wife, and his 
roofing contractor business. If you're 
in NYC and want to get hold of SOL 
FIORELLA just leave a message at the 
handball courts of the N.Y. A.C. 
Sol is a real active member there and still 
plays a mean game of handball. JIM 
MANNING has left the Wall Street law 
firm he had been with to join the real estate 
section of Consolidated Edison. 
In Cleveland BEN KELPEK is teaching and is vice principal of a large high school in Mentor, Ohio. GEORGE GRASS is teaching in Parma and JOE PFAFF is a manufacturer's rep and living in Rocky River. PAT O'DONNELL is in Houston having moved from the L.A. area. He is still with Shell and has made a handsome advancement in the home office. TOM HANRAHAN is now practicing law in his home at Slendine, Mont., after several terms as D.A. of Helena. 
JOSEPH A. PLUNKETT has been named assistant vice president of American Re-Insurance Co., New York. He joined the firm in 1964 after Marine Corps service. He lives in Westwood. NJ., with his wife and twin sons. JOHN L. BUSH, 1609 Central Ave., Bettendorf, la., recently was elected to the board of directors of the McCarthy Improvement Co., Davenport, la. He is vice president of the Linwood Stone Products Co., a sub­sidiary of McCarthy Improvement. 
PETER J. GARVEY has been named assistant manager of sales in U.S. Steel's Salt Lake City district sales office. He has worked for U.S. Steel in Chicago, Des Moines and Omaha. 
William B. King 
613 E Donmoyer Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 46614 
•53 GOOD NEWS! 
The appeal from my heart in company with the threat to hang up the green visor and typewriter brought most interesting letters from all comers of the country. I trust that the efforts to paraphrase and put into telegraphic laneuage this information will not discourage further contributions. I am certain you all understand that there are limitations of space as well as the previously mentioned "lead time" between the submission and ultimate printing of the column. 
ROLAND GRABELLE is functioning as a "financial architect" (his words) in the Chicago area. He is an agent for the Mutual Trust Life Insurance Co. and maintains offices at 8303 W. Higgins Rd. in Chicago. He reports that he anticipates opening a London office soon. Numbered among his clients is Forrest Tucker, who apparently has been utilizing Roland's expertise for nine years. Roland also indicates that he is a partner in the Arlington Park Theater, a portion of the Chicago Park race track in Arlington Heists. He mentioned his optimism in obtaining name performers for the grand opening such as Vincent Price, Mickey Rooney and Betty Grable. As soon as the London office is open. Roland, please supply us with that address. Dr. DAN COLLINS is functioning as a pathologist in association with two other medical doctors in Milwaukee. Wis. Dan reports that he sees BOB MITCHELL, HUGH BRAUN. GENE SMITH and PAUL CURTIN, all residents of Milwaukee. He reports that Bob Mitchell has two boys and lives but a few blocks from Dan and his wife. Bob is a treasurer for the A. O. Smith Corp., having left Bell and Howell. He, Bob, travels extensively. Hugh Braun 
is a partner in a Milwaukee law firm 
and the proud father of two lovely daughters 
and a son. Paul Curtin is a topflight 
engineer with McGraw-Edison and lives 
in South Milwaukee. Dan reports that he 
is a very active parishioner and member 
of the school council. Gene Smith 
has seven children in addition to a law 
practice in company with insurance and real 
estate. Dan reports that Gene came to his 
rescue when Dan had a fire in his home 
that swept through the second floor. Gene 
put up Dan and his family in one of 
their apartments the very ne.xt day. 
Some of you may remember that Dan's 
father was a high-ranking officer with the 
Chicago Fire Department. Seems a hard 
way to prove your point, Dan. Dan's five 
children keep him and his wife busy. Dan 
also reports that he had a Christmas card 
from Father GORSKl's mother indicating 
that Gene would be back on Campus 
this year. Dan has it by report that Gene 
Gorski's doctoral thesis was a masterpiece 
and Dan is very pleased over this because 
he felt that he trained Gene Gorski 
in the first two years they roomed together. 
My question as has been stated in the 
past, Dan, is when is Gene Gorski 
really coming home? 
Rev. CONAN PATRICK MULROONEY 
is at St. Norbert's College in Green Bay. 
Dan attended his first Mass some many 
years ago. Dan also reports that he 
encountered JIM WEITHMAN a couple 
of years ago at a closed circuit ND telecast. 
He reports he is in the western part of the 
state of Wisconsin. Can't we be a little 
more specific about Gentleman Jim? 
He would also like to hear from AL 
"Harpo" MARKS and confirm the fact that 
CHARLES MESSINER is head of the 
physics department at the U. of Maryland. 
Let's hear more from these science majors. 
Incidentally, Dan Coflins' address is 
8901 W. Lincoln Ave., Milwaukee. 
PAT O'NEILL reports that he has been living in Long Beach, Cal., 5914 Gaviota Ave., and would like to hear from some of the group as he is planning a trip to the East Coast in July. I don't think this column will get to press before your trip, Pat, but thanks for sending the information. CM DR. STEPHEN KENDRA is in the Medical Corps of the United States Navy. He is currently stationed as a ranking medical officer in Pearl Harbor. He has had 14 years of active duty in the Navy, subsequent to his 
M.D. degree from Jefferson as well as a master's degree in public health from Johns Hopkins. Steve has been in Norfolk and spent some time in Naples, Italy. He and his wife have three children and he expects that he will be in Hawaii for three more years. Sorry he didn't send his home address on that one. TOM NOURIE from Pittsburgh, Pa., reports that he has finally succumbed to the wiles of this class secretary and pleas for informa­tion. Tom was recently a candidate for the Mount Lebanon, Pa., school board and was the only Catholic candidate. He reports that he and his wife, Alice, spent some time with BUCK O'CONNOR in New York City, with Buck living in Harrison, N.Y., with their eight children. Tom Nourie does report that Charles Messiner has his doctorate in physics, married a girl from Denmark and is at the U. of Maryland. A couple of years ago, Tom reports, Charlie was a guest lecturer at Cambridge U. in England for a year. Tom Nourie is looking for FRED KING who was in our class but graduated the following January. Tom hasn't seen Fred King for 16 years and would like to know where he is. "Tom's wife is from South Bend and indicates that he will telephone me upon the occasion of his next visit to town and give me a more complete rundown. Thanks, Tom, that same message to you, don't wait 18 more years. In a letter from the Alumni Office, we learn that Rev. DANIEL J. SULLIVAN CSC, who obtained his AB degree in 1953, died 
May 21. To the brother of Father Dan, Raymond Sullivan of Cedar Rapids, la., you have the heartfelt sympathy of the Class of 1953. Rev. ERNIE BARTELL suggested that very possibly the members of our class living in the South Bend area might gather at least once annually at one of the hall chapels for a public Mass in remembrance especially of our departed brethren and the intentions of their families. I think this is a terrific idea and will endeavor to select a mutually agreeable date so that Fr. Bartell might celebrate the Mass and make the date and time known in this column so that those within driving distance might attend. Excellent idea, Fr. Bartell. 
JIM GIBBONS reports from the Special Projects offices of the University that PAUL J. VOTILLA '53L is living in Uniontown, Pa., and is a practicing attorney there. He reports that Maj. ROBERT MOXLEY lives in Bricktown, N.J., with his wife, Susan. Bob is a major in the field artillery stationed at Fort Monmouth, NJ., as well as having some responsibility at the Lakehurst Naval Air Station where he is aviation safety officer. Bob is deeply committed to electronic devices. Thanks, Jim. 
I am sure you all saw the Texaco annual report which pictured AL DECRANE as a high-ranking corporate officer of that organization. He doesn't look a day older either. Is there some magic quality to that lead-free gas that does it. Al? Speaking of Texaco. JERRY O'CONNOR, Chicago engineer and builder, reports that he does have JACK "Bear" SULlK's address down in Texas. Jack the "Bear" apparently still is a geologist with the Texaco organization. Immediately upon receipt of this address, I will publish it in the column. 
Received a very long letter from BOB STRAFEY. 3217 Australian Court, West Palm Beach. Fla. Bob articulates my notion that if people are basically so shy they won't write about themselves, they should pick a friend and write about his activities at least once every three years. In fact, he would very much like to know where LOUIE CAVANAUGH is so that he might write about Louie. Bob spent three years with his NROTC hitch and five years trying to use his geology degree with Shell Oil in Texas-Louisiana. He then decided that busting rocks wasn't for him and he went into the electronics industry starting with Western Electric in the Allentown, Pa., plant manufacturing something he calls a semi-conductor. He left Allentown and joined I.T.T. in their semi-conductor division in West Palm Beach. He goes to "sister" plants in Portugal, England, Germany, South Africa and Australia with prospects of opening a plant in Japan. He wrote his fine letter to us while seated in an airplane. He holds the job title of "quality assurance and reliability manager." Notwithstanding that most impressive title and being engaged in the manufacturing of semi­conductors, Bob reports five children enjoying the Florida confines. He ought to stop in and see BILL MAUS. He sees ART MEDILLI who, unbeknownst to me, is employed by the South Bend firm of Wells Plastic Co. Bob then goes on to make a suggestion as to how the class column could be the best. He suggests that we categorize through the use of post cards certain specialties such as the next issue is the engineers issue, the following issue, school, etc. I had made the suggestion in one of the very early columns in seeking information from, for example, the pre­meds. The resounding silence caused me to retrench. Bob. However, Bob goes on to say he would very much suggest information respecting who of our mem­bership have children at ND or SMC, clergy, 
elected officials, teachers, military government service, European residents and any number of other different categories. I think it's a great idea and I will try and implement a portion of it. The task of cataloging the various activities of our some 900 members is beyond my capabilities though maybe we could borrow an I.T.T. semi-conductor to help out. Parenthetically, the Alumni Office did indicate that efforts were being made to computerize information about the graduates which will hopefully make the task of writing this column easier. 
Bob then goes on to make the comment that he feels that the ALUMNUS magazine generally has improved tremendously in recent years and further goes on to praise the dynamic group overseeing the operation of our University. He isn't necessarily in complete concurrence with all of their activities but he feels that progress is being made. Thanks, Bob. 
On the weekend of Oct. 23, the So. California game, there will be an assembly of a group organized last year. It is anticipated that BILL MAUS, JOHN O'TOOLE, BILL WUETCHER, GEORGE FARRELL, JERRY O'CONNOR and from the class of '54, BUD KETTLES, will convene for the weekend in South Bend. If any of you now know that the So. California game is on your travel plans for this fall, please let me know and possibly we can recreate together. 
Thanks again to all for such an out­standing contribution of material. Please do not rest on your oars. Keep those cards and letters coming. 
John T. Mulvihill 645 First Bank Bldg. South Bend, Ind. 46601 
'54 RUSTY MAILBOX 
The eight-cent postage is just a little too much for you, huh? It's been so long since anyone's written that the mailbox's rusted shut. Com'on lend a hand. 
About the only big news (of course big is relative) is that your secretary, me that is, is moving to the Boston Area. I'd be happy to hear from any of you New Englanders. Contact me at the Monsanto Co., Everett, Mass., until I find a home. 
I talked to BOB WRIGHT. He and Jane just returned from three weeks in Europe. HERM KRIEGSHAUSER is building a hockey rink in St. Louis. AL SUWALSKY is co-author of a new edition of "Tax Management Portfolios— Reasonable Compensation" and is a member of the Washington. D.C., law firm of Silverstein and Millens. FRANK GANG­EMI, associate professor of physics at Ohio Northern U., Ada, Ohio, has written three recent articles published in various technical journals. JOE LEASER, Hazelton, Pa., received an MD degree on June 5 at the Milton S. Hershey Medical Center of Penn State U. He'll serve his internship at the Harrisburg, Pa., Hospital. Congrats! Did I mention last time that good old JOE BERTRAND was elected City Treasurer on the Democratic ticket which re-elected Mayor Daley of Chicago last April. Bertrand—yay! Democrats— Boo! And then there's more on JIM BROWNE (with an "F') . Jim, Executive 
V. P. of GAC Finance, Inc. was elected to a four-year term on the board of trustees of Cedar Crest Colleee, Allentown, Pa. Poor ole TED ECKERT tied the knot May 15 with the former Elizabeth Kunst of Grand Rapids, Mich. The honeymooners are living in Glencoe. 111., 313-B Hawthorne PI. Rotsa Ruck! Frank Skeese. justifiably proud father of JIM SKEESE reports that Jim passed the California bar exams a couple of years back and is practicing in San Diego. If everyone wrote iust once in a while like KEN SCHWARZ's lovely bride I'd have a bundle to report. Ken just got moved to New Orleans, missed ike Cotton Bowl, had his home robbed, went on vacation and bought a home in Houston 
Duke Haughey Mansfield 
Haidinger Vorwerk Riley 
Edward C. Duke '49 has been elected chairman of the board of trustees of Christian Brothers College at Memphis, Tenn. Duke, who is pres­ident of Duke Forest Products of Memphis, headed the fund drive to build the new Christian Brothers High School at Memphis. 
Rev. Edmund J. Haughey CSC '51 is the new academic dean of Stonehill College, North Easton, Mass. Very Rev. John T. Corr CSC '46, president of the college, announced that the board of trus­tees had confirmed Fr. Haughey's appointment following his selection from 200 applicants. 
Richard A. Mansfield '52 has been named manager of resins and chemicals development for the General Electric Co. Silicon Products Department, Saratoga Springs, N.Y. He has been manager of analytic services. He has received a Ph.D. from the U. of Maryland and lives in Saratoga Springs. 
Robert N. Haidinger '55 has been appointed vice president-adminis­tration of the Keene Corp., a New York-based firm serving the build­ing, pollution control/filtration and specialized markets. He joined Keene as director of industrial relations in 1969 and became director of administration at the end of that year. 
Richard J. Vorwerk '56 recently was appointed director of university libraries for the new Governors State U., at Park Forest South, 111. Vorwerk, who is co-author of an article on administrative intern programs in College and Research Libraries, served on the staff of the Memorial Library while at ND. 
John D. Riley '57 has been named project manager of the new air pollution control department of American Standard's Industrial Products Division at Detroit, Mich. He formerly was product man­ager, electro-static precipitators. 
—inverse order. JACK ROSSHIRT, Alana 
and the five boys are in Tehran, Iran. 
Jack is general attorney in the Asian coun­
tries for Amoco. He expects to be back 
Stateside in a couple of years. And finally, 
to wrap this up, DICK. MARTIN did 
in fact, write a letter. If Dick can do it, 
so can you. Dick and Pat adopted their 
first child, a son—Thomas William on 
Jan. 15. Dick lives in Brentwood, Tenn., 
and works in Nashville—securities. Dick's 
been active, seeing or talking with DICK 
ROSENTHAL, JOHN STODDARD, 
JERRY KIEFER, JOE BERTRAND, 
JERRY KEATING. RON MAZZOLI, 
PAUL KELLY, BILL STRUTER, PAUL 
KRAUSE and BOB CHICKEY all in the 
past year. 
That about wraps up another zero article. 

One letter and some Alumni Office notes 
hardly keep me excited. Of course, I am 
excited about moving to Mass. But I'll miss 
the close proximity to ND. Please write! 
Milton Beaudine '54 
Monsanto Co. 
Everett, Mass. 62203 
'55 WHAT'S UP, DOC? 
Letter of the cycle award goes to BILL 
TUNELL, who checked in with the news 
that he is moving to New Orleans as 
assistant professor of surgery and chief of 
the section of pediatric surgery at Louisiana 
State U. (Just contact Bill if you want 
extra tickets to the LSU game!) I certainly 
appreciated the kind words Bill had for 
the column and the news that he included. 
Bill reports that WAYNE PETERNEL is practicing gastroenterology at Mercy Hos­pital in Pittsburgh. STEVE PREVOZNIK remains in the department of anesthesia at the U. of Pennsylvania. JERRY MILLER is an ophthalmologist in Billings, Mont, (and DAVE COHEN always told me they didn't have doctors in Billings). JIM Mc KILLOP is a regular officer in the U.S. Army and has been stationed most recently at Fort Ord in Monterey, Calif. Bill adds that Jim was married in 1970. In New Orieans, Bill hopes to renew his acquaintance with FRED SCHMIDT, who left our class in 1954 to go to medical school and who is presently in the practice of surgery in New Orleans. 
Heard from Rev. JOE O'DONNELL, who is the Catholic chaplain at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md. Father Joe reports that CHUCK KLEE was quite ill at Bethesda, but is now back at the public affairs office in the Pentagon. (Probably ghosting "The Selling of the Pentagon." If that jab doesn't rate a reply. Chuck, I don't know what would.) 
Smiling JOE HAGGERTY, silver centen­nial beard and all, drove in from Hoopeston, III., for one of our Organization '55 dinners in Chicago. Don't forget, our football reunion is in the Morris Inn after the Southern Cal game. 
DICK REAMER, the world's greatest wanderer, has returned from Vienna. You can now find him at 3 Coach-N-Four Lane, St. Louis. Richard, you continue to maintain some awfully classy addresses. Here are some other entries for your address book: BOB BIERMANN, 70 Farrand Park, Highland Park, Mich.; Maj. BILL STAHL, Box 1378, 7500 Air Base Squadron, APO, New York 09125; DICK BOLAND, 3046 Brentwood Dr., 
S. E., Grand Rapids, Mich.; RUDY GENDER, 6441 Winans Lake Rd., Brighton, Mich.; HARRY EDELSTEIN, 130 Hacienda Drive, Tiburon, Calif.; JIM WEINLADER, 152 Walnut Dr., St. Charles, 111.; JIM SCHRADER, 1636 WOUiams Way, Norristown, Pa.; and DICK NORTON, 130 East End Ave., New York. 
JOHN LOCHTEFELD had his work in­cluded in the "4 In Art" exhibit at Marymount College. He's an associate professor of art there and teaches drawing and graphics. John has had one-man 
shows in Hawaii, Erie and Nantucket, 
and has participated in exhibitions in 
several other states, including Michigan, 
New York and Illinois. His awards include 
the 1955 Emil Jacques Gold Medal 
presented by ND, the Berwick Art 
Exhibition 1965 Watercolor Award, and 
Best of Show at the Nantucket Artists 
Association exhibit in 1970. 
If you felt old last year at your 15th 
reunion, remember that this is your 20th 
year out of high school. Woof! BOB 
BROWN, 2535 Country Club Ave., and 
WARREN "Lefty" YOUNGSTROM, 
12960 Harney, have been active in the 
reunion plans for the Creighton Prep class 
in Omaha. Bob was chairman of the event. 
I started out in that class before moving 
to Chicago, so have many fond memories. 
JIM BERGQUIST, who is teaching history 
at Villanova, was one of the guys with 
brains in that class. 
"Let the Class of '55 know that this 
old die-hard bachelor finally got married, 
to Miss Imogene Gorman of Akron, Ohio, 
on May 15, 1971."—FRANK ORLANDO, 
2275 Winter Parkway, Cuyahoga Falls, 
Ohio. And Frank, here's what happens to 
old bachelors who get married. "Took 
me a while to get started, but I'm on 
my way now."—ROCCO TANNONE, an­
nouncing the birth May 1 of his son, John 
Edward. Roccy is still stationed at Great 
Lakes (1923 Lexington). 
RALPH BARBOUR has been elected 
vice president of the C.I.T. Corp., and 
its affiliate, C.I.T. Leasing Corp. He 
heads the railroad equipment and electronics 
data processing equipment leasing programs 
of the two firms. Ralph has four children 
and lives at 405 Springfield Ave., Cranford, 
NJ. 
JIM CORCORAN has moved to 420 
Forest Ave., Dayton; DICK. MILLER 
to St. Mary's Hospital, 89 Genesee St., 
Rochester, N.Y.; DICK FARRELL to 372 
Central Park Ave., Scarsdale, N.Y.; 
WILBUR SCHAEFER, 870 N. Pemberton 
Dr., Bloomfield Hills, Mich.; and BERNIE 
SMYTH to 10755 University Ave., 
Edmonton, Alta. 
MAURY REIDY has been promoted to vice president of Consolidated Oil and Gas, Inc., in Denver. He will continue as secretary and general counsel for the company. He practiced law for 10 years before joining Consolidated in 1967. 
OK, gang, let's hear from you. 
Paul Fullmer 
1922 Larkdale Drive 
Glenview, lU. 60025 
'56 THE LAST HUKRAH 
This is my last column as your Class Sec­
retary and I would like to thank each and 
every one of you for all the help you 
gave me these past five years. It was a 
pleasure to serve you. 
Your new class officers as elected at the Reunion are: DON CARLIN, President; FRANK BEYTAGH, Vice President; JOHN FANNON, Treasurer; AL PARILLO, Secretary. 
SIL RESCINITI was elected "Honorary Class Hippie." Al Parillo's address is 6 Brantwood Ter­race. Short Hills, N.J. 07078. The following registered and attended the Class Reunion: 
1956 Attendees 
JOHN ADAMS, TOM ADAMS, JOHN ALLEN, KENNETH ANDRE WALTER ARNOLD, BILL BAILEY, TONY BALAVITCH, CARL BEER, TOM BENNETT, MALCOME BERNETT, ROLAND BERNHOLD, PAUL BER­RETTINI, FRANCIS BEYTAGH, AL BIERMANN, DAVID BILLMEYER, GEORGE BLAKE, NOEL BLANK, DONALD BOMALASKI, JOHN BOWER, 
WILLIAM BREHL, EUGENE BRENNAN, FRED BRINSKELLE, JOHN W. BRODERICK, GEORGE BROUCEK, RICHARD BROWN, CHARLES BUDEN­BENDER, JAMES E. BURLAGE, MARK BURNS, PETER CANNON, THOMAS CAPLAT, FRANK CAPPELLINO, BEN CARDELLA, DONALD CARLIN, MICHAEL CARR, ROBERT CARRANE, JACK CASEY, TONY CASTORINA, PHIL CENEDELLA, RICHARD CLARK, THOMAS CLAUSSEN, JOSEPH CLINE, WILLIAM COPELAND, JOHN CORBETT, EDWARD C. COSGROVE, JAMES R. COSTELLO, TOM CREHAN, PATRICK CRADDOCK, RICHARD CROWLEY, JOHN CUPPER, THOMAS CURRAN, JAMES E. DAY, JOHN DEASY, DANIEL 
C. DEVINE, GORDON DiRENZO, HENRY DIXON, JOHN DONNELLY, TOM DONOVAN, RAY F. DREXLER, JACK DUMAS, HARRY DUTKO, JOHN DWYER, VINCENT EILERS, ROBERT ERDMANN, JIM EUSTERMANN, JOHN FANNON. JACQUES FIEHRER, PETE FIEWEGER, JIM FINNEGAN, JAMES FISHER, F. PETER FOY, JOHN GAL­LAGHER, PAUL GERACE, SAM GERARDl, ROY GILLIA, JOHN GSCH­WIND, BOB GULDE, JOSEPH HEN­NESSY, JERRY HIGGINS, BOB HOFACRE, DAVID HUBER, JOHN HUMMER, PAUL HURLEY, RICHARD JACOB, TOM JAEB, JAMES JOLIN, EDWARD JOYCE, WILLIAM KEARNEY, JOHN KEGALY, JOSEPH D. KELLY, LARRY KENNEDY, MICHAEL J. KILEY, DON KILLIAN. CHARLES KING, PAUL KING, PHIL KRAMER, EDWARD KSENIAK, JOHN LEACH, ROBERT LECHOWSKI, RAY LEMEK, LEO LINBECK JR.. MICHAEL LUBERTO, LOUIS MALANDRA, JOHN 
P. MADIGAN JR., DENNIS MALEC, RENO MASINI, JAMES MASSEY, BILL MATTHEWS, NICHOLAS MAVIANO, REV. DAVID MAX, VIC McFADDEN, ROBERT L. McGOLDRICK, THOMAS McNEILL, JERALD McPARTLlN, JIM MENSE, RICHARD MERKEL, BOB MINCK, DONALD MOSER, BOB MUL­DOON, MARTIN MULLARKEY, THOMAS MULLARKEY, JOHN MULLEN, TIMOTHY MURPHY, JOHN 
F. MURRAY, GEORGE NICULA, PAUL NOLAND, GEORGE O'CONNELL, EUGENE O'CONNOR, JOHN O'CON­NOR, MATTHEW O'CONNOR. PAT OGREN, RICHARD O'KEEFFE, CLEM O'NEILL, ROGER O'REILLY, DANIEL O'SHEA, JACK OWAN, ALBERT PARILLO, VERG PAIVA, FELIX PARK, JACK PATZ, DENNIS E. POWERS, TOM POWERS, RICHARD QUILLIN, FR. JOHN RAUB, MICHAEL J. REGAN, CHRISTOPHER REITZE, SIL RESCINITI, JAMES REVORD, PAUL REYNOLDS, GERALD RIGSBY, JOHN RODGERS, ANTHONY M. ROCCO, ROBERT RUHL, TOM RUSSELL, BOB SALVINO, DONALD SCHAEFER, RICHARD SCHMIDT, JAMES L. SHUMAKER, PAT SNYDER, GERALD SPAETH, JOSEPH SPIEGEL, ROBERT L. STECKBECK, BILL STOTZER, WILLIAM M. SULLI­VAN, ALBIN SZEWCZYK. FRANK TIGHE CONNIE TRIMBER, PAUL UEBELHOR, RICHARD A. VanAUKEN, BERNARD VanETTEN, DONALD WALZ, DICK WEBER, BILL WEIMAN, DAVID WENTLING, SIDNEY WILKIN, DON WILLIAMS, LARRY WITHUM. 
Eugene P. O'Connor, '56 
'58 DUNN ON COUNCIL 
Congratulations are in order to old roommate JOHN F. DUNN on his election to the city council of Decatur, HI., last April 20. John was second highest vote-getter on the council slate and took office on May 1. He has been practicing law in Decatur in the firm of Morey & Dunn for several years and has been active in local civic and charitable affairs. 
Congratulations also to Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD HANK, who became parents of a daughter, Barbara Marie, on May 15. The Hanks live at 1714 N. 76th Ave., Elmwood Park, 111. Double congratulations to PHIL MAERSCH and wife Patty on the arrival of twins May 16. The new arrivals are boys, named Peter and David, who join older brother Karl and sister Susan. 
RA-V^OND A. MILLER has been named executive vice president of the Fleming Building Co. of Tulsa, Okla. in a reorganization under which employee stockholders purchased the company from the founder. Miller joined the firm, a pre­engineered metal building company, as a salesman in 1965. 
JAMES S. BRENNAN, owner of the Jeweled Cross Co., North Attleboro, Mass., has been elected to the board of directors of Sacred Design Associates, Inc. Brennan, who holds the rank of captain in the Marine Corps Reserve, also is a director of the National Church Goods Association. Major and Mrs. GEORGE D. NAVADEL have moved to 203 Lake City Ave., White Sands, N. Mex., where he is on duty with the U.S. Marine Corps at the White Sands Missile Range. They have adopted a son, Stephen Christopher, and now have three children. 
MAJOR THOMAS L. TRACE commands a squadron of the 1974th Communications Group at Ubon Royal Thai Air Force Base, which received a special "V" device for valor in combat, the U.S. Air Force Outstanding Unit Award. 
Arthur L. Roule, Jr. 1610 Fifth Street LaPorte, Ind. 46350 
•59 ON THE MOVE 
CHRIS WALSH, who joined Eastman Kodak in 1963, has been appointed regional marketing specialist for micro­graphics markets and has moved to 265 Buckingham Road, Rockv River. Ohio. HUGH J. MURPHY is' now secretary-treasurer of Champion Home Communities, Inc., Dryden, Mich., which develops and operates mobile home parks and retail sales centers. Hugh and Colette and their five children live in Southfield, Mich. DICK BESCHEN, who went with Philadelphia Toro Co. as a salesman five years ago, has been promoted to consumer sales manager. The Beschens (two children) live in Cherry Hfll, NJ. W. J. BITTNER received an M.B.A. at Case-Western Reserve, held various positions at the Westin^ouse Air Brake Division in Pitts­burgh, and currently is manager of business planning and industrial marketing at Wabco, Ltd., an American-Standard Co., at Hamilton, Ontario. 
LEO SWIAT went into the Army after graduation, was a salesman for Moore Business Forms in Chicago for two years, a radio announcer for a Marysville, Kan., station for another two, managed a radio station in Abilene, Kan. from 1963-65, and was assistant sales manager for a Kalamazoo station from 1965-67. In 1967, he joined his brothers in the firm of Olmsted & Mulhall, Inc., Investment Securities, and now serves as treasurer. Leo met his wife during his "Kansas days," has four sons (7, 6, 5, & 2), is presently vice president of the ND Club of K^amazoo and served a term as president of the Kalamazoo Exchange Club. R. S. "Tim" McGARVEY, stayed with the same corporation, AMP, Inc., from graduation until last month. Tim is now executive vice president of King Electrical Manufacturing Corp., in Seattle. At least we know one person in Seattle who is gainfully employed! lim had been marketing manager for AMP, 
Hagood Hauwiller Nathe 
John D. Burns '58 has been elected president of Oregon's state senate. An ND track and cross-country monogram winner. Burns was first elected to the Oregon senate in 1966 and re-elected in 1970. He is married and has four children. 
James J. Hughes Jr. '59, director of the Department of Public Safety for the city of Columbus, Ohio, was chosen this year for the second time as one of the 10 outstanding young men of his community. He received the same honor in 1969. Hughes is the executive head of the city's 1,000-man police force and 750-man fire department. 
J. Nell Stalter '60 is now advertising manager of the textile fibers and floor covering divisions of Eastman Chemica Products, Inc., New York. Before joining the division, Stalter had served as assistant advertising manager in Eastman's plastics and international divisions. He joined Eastman at Rochester, N.Y., in 1960. He and his wife, with their five children, live at 655 Nancy Rd., Yardley, Pa. 19067. 
Patrick S. Hagood '61 has been appointed vice president in the cor­porate banking department of Security National Bank, Los Angeles, Calif. He joined the bank in 1965 as a management trainee. He and his wife have two daughters. They live at 6010 W. 74th St., Los Angeles, Calif. 90045. 
Robert P. HauwlUer M.S. '62 has been appointed registrar of the new Governors State U. at Park Forest South, 111. He has been assistant director of records at Chicago State College and also has taught at St. Mel High School in Chicago, St. Francis High at Wheaton, St. Mary's College at Winona, Minn., and Lewis College, Lockport, 111. 
Gerald A. Nathe '63, M.S. '66 is now executive director of operations at the Springfield, Va., offices of Remak Electrograph Pty., Ltd., an Australian company manufacturing and marketing an electrostatic color reproduction system. He received an M.B.A. from the Harvard Business School in 1968. 
was the salesman of the year in 1962 and was located as a district sales manager in San Francisco and Seattle, before his assignment in Hanisburg, Pa. Tim has also been active as a ski instructor at the Round Top Ski School, Lewisberry, in organizing European and Western skiing trips and in assisting Coach Joe Yonto in the recruitment of ND football players from the Harrisburg area. 
Four of our classmates represented their local alumni clubs at the Alumni Senate, held on campus in April. The active participants were: BILL KANE (Buffalo), DAVE KELSEY (New Mexico), MIKE MONTI (Rhode Island and Southeastern Mass.) and JIM RHADIGAN (FUnt). FRED VIDA married Kathleen Clark in January, 1970, and celebrated the birth of their daughter on April 14, 1971. Fred is with the Continental Bank in Chicago and lives in the Belmont Harbor area, north of the Loop. He regularly sees BILL HAWKINS, JOHN BROSIUS and PAT WALSH in the quarterly resumption of their Sorin basement poker club. DICK PHELAN was a neighbor of Fred's in Old Town and BILL DALTON and Fred are classmates again at the U of Chicago MBA program. Bill has two children and also lives on the near north side. Fred concludes his report with the news that BOB VONDRASEK is still doing social work in Syracuse and DICK MURPHY is teaching at Providence Col­lege. Fred usually attends all of the ND home games, so plan to see him and other classmates at the postgame reunions (after each of the six home games) in the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
The KNUTE CAVANAUGHs hope to make it to one of the games this fall. Eileen writes that she hopes their new address (2210 Riviera Place, Longmont, Colo., 80501) is of a more permanent nature, and that their sons, Kenneth (3), Kevin (2), and Keith (1) are "having a grand time romping around Colorado's wide open spaces." Knute was head of the 
M.D. Ski Patrol at Hidden Valley Ski Area and he and Eileen managed to visit some of the other ski areas in Colorado. 
We would all like to hear from the following: KEVIN HALLIGAN (Wheaton, HI.), NICK DEMPSEY (Northbrook, 111.), GENE SLABY (Annandale, Va.), PHIL KILKEARY (Annapolis, Md.), RALPH ZIOLA (Hmwood Park, 111.). MIKE KURAS (Granada Hills, Calif.), E. J. CUNNINGHAM (Ballwin, Mo.), MIKE SHEA (Minneapolis), ROGER LETO (Milwaukee), DAVE BLACK (McMurray, Pa.), ED (EDMUND F.) MURPHY (Louisville), JOHN HOGAN (Cincinnati), JOHN HENRY (Mobile, Ala.), DAVE CULLIGAN (St. Paul), CHARLES DUGGAN (Glenwood, 111.), BOB DEMPSEY (Alexandria, Va.), DAVID O'CONNOR (Gaithersburg, Md.) CHARLIE FREDRICK (CincinnaU), ALDO VAIO (Albuquerque), and JOHN CONNOLLY (Baltimore). 
We also understand that the following have moved to new cities and would like to have an "up to date" report from these '59ers: DAN CONWAY (Longview, Texas), JOE BUXTON (Bedford, Mass.), ERIC JENSEN (Jackson, Miss.), ERIC FOURNAIS (Las Arboledas, Mexico), DAVE GLOW (Sierra Vista, Ariz.), CRAIG HILLYER (Chicago). CLARENCE COLBERT (Memphis), LARRY STUART (KerviUe, Texas), ALEX CAMERON (KeUering, Ohio), Father LARRY SAHA, CS.C. (Austin, Texas), WRAY ECKL (Atlanta), Major O. FREDERICK MILLER III (130th Station Hosp., APO 
N. Y.), JIM LEONE (Oceanport, N. J.), TOM FLEMING (Prairie Vaiage. Kansas), and JIM BIELEFELD (MerriUville, Ind.). Thanks! 
Joseph P. Mulligan Box 99 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 '61 ARNIE'S ARMY 
Greetings, fellow grads of the Class ot 1961, and thanks to those who attended reunion '71 for your vote of confidence in me as your class secretary for the next five years. Together with my classmates, I'd like to express our gratitude to our retiring scribe, BILL HENNEGHAN, for his splendid reporting over the past half decade. Other new class officers are: TIM MONAHAN, president, BILL KEARNEY, 
V.P. and MIKE KENNEDY, treasurer. ND men have a way of wooing the finest young ladies. JIM DETTLING and NORM WINTERTON were present with lovely wives, Judy and Mimi. Both Jim and Norm were "troops" in Fr. Pelton's "Cavanaugh Contingent" in that glorious freshman year. Speaking of troops, the Marines were well represented in the persons of Captains RAY KELLY, PETE SCHIPPS, TOM CARPENTER and mv old sparring partner, BILL WELCH. 
Thanks for the dinner. Bill, and give Maggie a kiss for me. 
Up from Ft. Lauderdale for our gathering were NICK PALIHNICH and DAN GRIFFIN. You looked terrific. Griff. "Blizzard country" (Wisconsin) was represented with the presence of JAY MONDRY and his old roomie, "Spike" WERNER. My Saturday morning breakfast in the cafeteria resembled a version of the 
T.V. series, "The Young Lawyers." Break­ing bread with me were barristers DAVE "Smacker" McCANN. BERNIE CRAIG and MIKE NASH. Remember, fellas, stand on your constitutional rights, don't sit on them. TOM RYAN and his roomie. Dr. TOM "Reamsie" REARDON, arrived for Friday evening's smorgasbord and found themselves in a crossfire of rolls which were being propelled by gunners DICK DORGAN, HERSCHEL FREE­MAN, BILL POGUE and BILL MURPHY. First aid was not administered. I enjoyed chatting with "Mr. Hustle" himself, BILL "Red" MACK, who related a few anecdotes worth noting on his one year with "the greatest teacher I ever had," the incomparable late coach of the Green Bay Packers, Vince Lombard!. I must thank financial wizard, JERRY KEARNS, and committee for their hours of preparation spent in making ours a most enjoyable reunion. A word of praise is also in order for TIM HUGHES for the fantastic job he has done as editor of the ALUMNUS. Iowa's loss is Notre Dame's gain. Keep up the good work, Tim! JOE ENGEL, advertiser supreme, is keeping many Chicago businesses happy. Joe. did you shrink or did I grow? Please, BILL CRONIN, have your phone repaired; every time I call, a recorded female voice answers, "This number is out of order." Get well soon, Mike Cronin; if your dad can make these beer blasts, certainly you can keep up with him. Hope to see you in the fall, Mike. 
Conspicuous by their absence were ROGER McMAHON, a legend in his own time, and the illustrious BILL "Aide" SALA. Aldo's immortal quote used to be, "Hey, Lefty, don't be a strap all your life." What ever happened to TED NEKIC, alias Johnny Tillotson? In case you fellows don't remember that story, call McMahon. NED GRANTS rendition of "The Stripper" was the Reunion's highlight. PAT KEAR­NEY played a record 36 holes of golf in one day; take note, KENNY ANDERSON. I have direct orders from PAUL FLEMING to mention that he just became a daddy. May it happen a dozen times over, Paul. JIM NACK and FRED WEBER now comb their hair with handkerchiefs. Tower­ing over all at the rendezvous were roomies BILL SULLIVAN and JOHN TULLY. Sully and 'Tully might be a little closer to heaven than all of us, but they're not home free yet. Congenial GEORGE EASLEY leads our class in the daddy 
department with six cherubs while cool 
Tim Monahan is a close second with 
5'A toddlers. Way to go, Mr. President. 
Where was our class's large Oklahoma 
conUngent? TOM CUBBAGE, JACK 
CASTIN, STEVE LEROUX, BOB 
SCHOLTZ and CLYDE HIGHTOWER 
were not on hand. However, we did see 
two Sooners in MIKE CURTIN and smiling 
PAT O'BRIEN. 1 overheard Pat and J. J. 
CUNNINGHAM swapping pilot tales. 
Pat is with T.W.A. and John flies with 
American. It was so nice seeing JACK 
and BILL NEBEL again. Their presence 
always means double fun. TERRY MOSER 
and DICK ECKERT are still the cardsharks 
they were from undergraduate days. GENE 
TRANI is now a full professor of History 
at Southern Illinois Univ. PAT HICKEY 
is now a school board member in East 
Stroudsburg, Pa. My prediction is that ED 
ABEL will be a most happy fellow on 
Oct. 2. That's the day the Pirates will 
win in the N.L. Eastern Division. 
It seems that GEORGE VORIS, JERRY 
CARRIER and MARTY RONAN have 
heeded Uncle Sam's call, and they are 
now on the Federal payroll in various 
capacities in Washington, D.C. JOHN 
McNAMARA and TOM BRANNIGAN 
are now in private legal practice serving 
Loop Area residents after doing stints as 
assistant D.A.'s. If any of you Chicago 
area grads see STRAT STEP AN, ED 
STEPHAN, TIM MOORE, JERRY PAE 
or MIKE MAHANEY, have them pen me 
a note on their most recent escapades. 
My old roommate. Rev. GEORGE 
O'CONNELL. has switched from pastoral 
to pedagogical duties at Niagara U. 
In completing my first class report, I 
leave you to reflect upon Father Hesburgh's 
closing remarks at the Reunion dinner, 
"As an institution, Notre Dame will not 
simply endure; it will prevail. The reason 
is that we are a family." 
J96I Attendees 
EDWARD ABEL, JERRY ALBERS, DANIEL ALLEN, KEN ANDERSON, TERRY ANDREW, HENRY BABY, DONALD BADER, ARTHUR F. BA­RILLE, CHARLES BARRY, WILLIAM BARTLETT, ROBERT J. BATTISTA, JOHN BERNAT, JOSEPH BLAKE, PAUL BOGNAR, THOMAS E. BRANNIGAN, DON BRIDENSTINE, WILLIAM BROD­ERICK, JAMES BROGAN, ROBERT BROWN, LEO BRUGGER, JOE BRYAN, JACK CAHALAN, JAMES CAIN, PAT CALLAHAN, THOMAS CARPENTER, GERALD CARRIER, JOHN CATE, WILLIAM CHAMPION, NICK CHESTER, DONALD CHMIEL, JAMES CLARKE, THOMAS CON­NEELY, CAL COOK, JOHN COONEY, BERNIE CRAIG, BILL CRONIN, ROBERT CUMMINGS, J. J. CUNNING­HAM, MICHAEL E. CURTIN, MARTIN DALEY, ED DALY, JOHN DELINE, JIM DETTLING, JOHN DIXSON, TOM DOPPKE, RICHARD DORGAN, ROBERT DUFFEY, GEORGE EASLEY, DICK ECKERT, RUDOLPH EHREN­SING, THOMAS EMMER. JOE ENGEL, THOMAS ENRIGHT, LARRY ERICK­SON, PHIL FARLEY, FRANK FASEL, PATRICK FEENEY, NICK FERLAZZO, JIM FIORI, PAUL FLEMING, JOHN FLYNN, THOMAS FREEMAN, THOMAS GEIL, TOM GLAVIN, PETER GLOVNA, CARL GOY, JOHN GRACE, NED GRANT, EDWARD GREEN. JOHN GRIEB, DANIEL GRIFFITH, ALAN HAMIL­TON, BOB HARVEY, WILLIAM HENNEGHAN, DONALD HICKEY, 
J. PATRICK HICKEY, DAVID HIPP, MIKE HOCH, •nMOTHY J. HUGHES, JACK HYNDS, DENNIS JOHNSTON, JOHN JULIANO, JAMES A. KAVAL, PAT KEARNEY, BILL KEARNEY, JERRY KEARNS, WILLIAM KECK, 
F. PATRICK KELLY, RAY KELLY, MIKE KENNEDY, LARRY KEOUGH, 
LAWRENCE KOLASA, BOB KROHA, KENNETH KWIAT, RONALD LaREAU, THOMAS LARKIN. EDGAR LAWLOR, DAVID LEE, JIM LEE, JIM LEFERE, TERRY LEONARD, DAVE LERMAN, GEORGE LESNIK, JOSEPH LIBBY, GEORGE MACK, RED MACK, CHARLES MacMILLAN, CHARLES MANDC, THOMAS MARCINIAK, JAMES MARTIN, GERALD MATHEIS, JOHN MAY, EDWARD McANANEY, DAVID McCANN, ED McDONOUGH, PATRICK McKEEVER, JOHN Mc­NAMARA, JOSEPH J. McNAMARA, JAMES McNELTY, JIM McVEIGH, ANGELO MILITELLO, JOHN R. MILLER, JIM MILTON, TIM MONA­HAN, JAY MONDRY, TERRY MOSSER, PETER MURPHY, BILL MURPHY, JAMES NACK, MICHAEL NASH, JACK NEBEL, BILL NEBEL, WES NEW­MYER, PAT O'BRIEN. WALTER O'BRIEN, RON OLSON, MICHAEL O'NEILL. TIM O'REILLY, TRACY OSBORNE, DENIS O'SHAUGHNESSY, JAMES C. OSTER, NICHOLAS PALIH­NICH, DAN PALMER, RICHARD PARSONS, TOM PAULICK, BILL PFLAUM, ROBERT PHELEN, JOE PICHLER, JOHN PIDICK, WILLIAM POGUE, JAMES RAINEY, THOMAS REARDON, DONALD RICE, LAW­RENCE A. RICHARDS, PETER RODGERS, JOE ROEHRIG, MARTIN RONAN, DAN RORKE, JOHN RYAN, THOMAS RYAN, RONALD SAMPSON, STEVEN SAUER, JOSEPH SAYOUR, ROBERT SCHAEFER, PETER SCHIPA, ROBERT SCHULTZE, JOE SCHWARTZ, JIM SHANAHAN, THOMAS SHEERIN, JERRY SHELTON, TOM SMITH, DAVID B. SOMMER, WILLIAM STEBER, THOMAS A. TAFELSKI, PAUL TORCZYMSKI, RAY TRANCE, EUGENE TRANI, JOHN TULLY, JAMES TYNAN, JAMES UHLL, CARL Van HECKE, GEORGE VORIS, RICHARD WAGNER, BOB WEBER, WILLIAM WEIST. W. J. (Bill) WELCH, WILLIAM WETZEL, SPIKE WERNER, Rev. OLIVER WILLIAMS, NORM WINTER­TON, DAVID WOCHNER, JERRY WOLFE. ROBERT YOUNG, ARMAND ZILIOLI. 
Arnold Leporati Jr. 
22S-23-I08th Ave. 
Queens Village, New York 11429 
'62 REPORT ON LATINS 
A lengthy letter from JIM OLSON provides the majority of news for this edition. Jim now lives in Panama and works for the Credit Union National Association, a non­profit organization with an AI.D. contract to promote credit unions in Latin America. As a result, he has been able to keep track of a couple of our Latin classmates. PEDRO BELTRAN is runm'ng his family's newspaper business in Lima, Peru, is married with two children. CARLOS OSORIO also is taking care of a family business in Managua, Nicaragua. 
Jim also reports of the foUowing: TIM KITTREDGE is a lawyer in Philadelphia, MIKE MARCHILDON after a year of Ph. D. studies at Sanford switched to the five-year medical program and is presently in New York City doing a pediatric surgery residency. MIKE GREELY is treasurer of a Los Angeles-based company that produces paintings for home and oflice use. Mike has four children. DICK KLARICH is running a family construction business in Chicago. Finally, Jim would like to hear from ROGER SMITH. Olson can be reached at this address; CUNA/AID Program, Box J Balboa, Canal Zone. 
GEORGE MAMMOLA has been named controller of the construction group for Interpace Corp. in Parsippany, NJ. George has been with the firm since 1963 and lives with his wife in Wayne, NJ. BOB LIFSEY is now teaching at Midwestern U. in Wichita Falls, Tex. LARRY McGRAW has been promoted to marketing services representative for I.B.M.'s western region and has moved from Denver to Palos Verdes, Calif, with his wife and three daughters. PETER DIERKS who received an M.S. at ND in 1964 was awarded a Ph.D. May 23 at the University. JOE BALISTRIERI has been appointed court commissioner in Milwaukee. PHIL YAW­MAN received a master of social work degree from Syracuse U. this past June. Phil will be associated with the Youth Center at the Rochester State Hospital. He and his family live in Fairport, N.Y. 
H. James Krauser 8301 Garfield Street Bethesda, Md. 20034 
'63 GOOD PENMANSHIP 

JAMES P. MURRAY was elected assistant 
manager in the international section of the 
First National Bank of Chicago. Jim has 
a J.D. from ND and an M.B.A. from 
Northwestern. 

CARL WIEDEMANN writes from New 
York, where he is now an assistant professor 
at John Jay College in Manhattan, part 
of City U. of N.Y. He is married and just 
earned his Ph.D. in clinical psychology. 
TOM LUEBBERS is now assistant to the 
Ohio state attorney general, living in 
Columbus. 

Nice note from Kathy GILLATTI, wife 
of JERRY. The Gillattis are the proud 
parents of a new girl. Jerry is working from 
Dictaphone as Electronic Calculator Man­
ager, living in Arlington Heights, 111. 

I don't know what we'd do without the 
notes coming from wives; keep it up girls! 
Your penmanship is also a lot easier to 
read! 
Thomas B. Hotopp 
55 Churchill PI., RD 1 
Big Flats, N.Y. 14814 
'64 MISSING IN ACTION 

THOMAS W. SWITZER is directing the 
cultural center in Morelin, Mexico, and 
is engaged to Miss Carmen Arce of San 
Jose, Costa Rica. JON D. KUPPINGER 
has been named banking officer of the 
Lincoln Rochester Trust Co., at Rochester, 
N.Y. He has been with the firm since 1965 and has served as manager of Lincoln-Rochester's Latta-Dewey office. JOHN C. KANALEY is an attorney in Syracuse and New York City. A. F. FREY is a systems engineer with IBM in New Orleans at the control systems center. DENIS E. LEINHART is employed with American Cyanamid Co. in Wayne, NJ. 
RUSS DELANEY and his wife Judy live in Huntsville, Ala. They have two daugh­ters and Russ works as a Plant Accounting Manager at Automatic Electric Co. FRANK CORRADO and his wife Karen have one daughter and Frank is the public relations man for the Department of Interior's water pollution program in the Great Lakes. Dr. S. P. NICKNISH was a resident in orthopedic surgery at Georgetown U. Hospital, Washington, D.C. He and his wife have a daughter. THOMAS B. REILLY is employed by Page Communications Engineers in Saigon. Todd is the general office manager. 
TIM MORRISON and his wife, Elaine, have two children and Tim is the executive vice president of C.H. Tripp Co. in San Diego, Calif. 
BILL MEEKER is an executive vice president for the McCarthy Co. in Pasadena, Calif. KENNETH MARTY-LOPEZ is married with two children and is practicing law in the Oflice of the Staff Judge Advo­cate, U.S. Army, Alaska, APO Seatfle 98749. EDWARD W. KELLY and his 
wife, Joanne, (SMC '64) now have two 
children and he is teaching English and 
coaching at Niles High School, Niles, 
Mich. JAMES B. GINTY and his wife, 
Carol, have one son. Jim graduated from 
Georgetown Law School and spent time 
in the Navy stationed in the Philippines. 

CAPT. JAMES T. EG AN JR. was listed 
missing in action Jan. 21, 1966, when a 
patrol he was leading was ambushed by 
Viet Cong. His parents who live in 
Mountainside, N.J. cling to the hope that 

their son was wounded and taken prisoner. 
Mrs. Egan receives periodic communications 
from the Marine Corps that her son is 
still listed as missing. Jim completed his 
training at the Quantico Marine Base 

in 1965 and was scheduled to be stationed 
in Hawaii for three years. Jim had his 
car shipped to Hawaii but upon arriving, 
received orders to proceed to Okinawa. 
From Okinawa, he was sent to Vietnam 

as a forward artillery obser\'er. In addition 
to his work as a forward observer, Jim 
took part in the "pacification" program, 
working with the Vietnamese people. He 
had just returned to combat status when 
he was sent out on the patrol in the 
middle of the Tet New Year period. 
Ironically, Jim was scheduled to begin 
rest and relaxation in Thailand three days 
after he disappeared. He was scheduled to 
leave Vietnam that May. 
Clay Stephens 
206 Marian Ave. 
Fanwood, New Jersey 07023 
'65 STORK IS BUSY 
JAMES GOETZ and wife, Kathy are the 
proud parents of a son, James Peter, 

born on New Year's Eve. Jim is completing 
his pediatric residency at University 
Hospital in Cleveland, and in July will 
begin a two-year tour with the Navy 

stationed at the Naval Auxiliary landing 
field in Monterey, Calif. 
BERNEY ZAHREN was married in 
June to Judith Ellen Bradeen in Norwell, 
Mass. Bemey and Judy will be living in 
Montgomery, Ala., where he has been 
promoted to the position of assistant plant 
manager of Kopper's Forest Products 
Division. 

TONY UHLRICH has moved his busi­ness. Leisure Time Development Co., to Houston, Texas, where he and wife, Terry, and their two daughters, Tina and Trisha, now live. BILL MILES is living in Anchor­age, Alaska and DAVE CLEMENTS re­ports that his younger brother. Tommy — a high school All American LB—will enter ND this fall as a top prospect. JOE KRUSCHAK and his wife had a son, Philip Joseph, bom in November. They also have a daughter, Kristine. Joe was recently promoted to senior engineer by the Xerox Corp. 
After an Army tour following our graduation, STEVE HOOK spent three years at the U. of Iowa where he obtained a master's degree in both journalism and American history. While there he married the former Becky Struve of Sutherland, la., and now has a four-year-old daughter, Tracy. Presently Steve is teaching journalism at Wisconsin State U. in LaCrosse. CHUCK BRADY recently completed a four-year Air Force tour in Biloxi, Miss., and JIM EPSTEIN has just finished his first year of medical residency at the Indiana Medical Center in Indianapolis. Jim is planning to specialize in hematology. He and his wife, Janie, have one daughter, Kathleen Jane. TOM HICKS is also at Indiana U. But doing radiology residency; and BILL McGRAW is at Mayo Clinic for his radiology residency. 
BILL SIDDONS rejoined Pratt and Whitney Aircraft in Oct '69 after two years in the Army and now lives in 
E. Hartford, Conn. CHUCK CAMPBELL lives in the same area and also works 

for Pratt and Whitney. Chuck and wife, 
Sue, have one son. Brad. JACK BOWDEN, 
wife Judy and their daughter, Kathleen, 
constitute another Pratt and Whitney 
family in E. Hartford. MIKE SMITH 
and his family, three children, live in 
Valley Forge where Mike works at 
the G.E. Space Center. BILL MINDLIN 
has just returned from a Vietnam tour. 
He and his wife, Diane, have one daughter, 
Kathy. 
Shortly after our graduation, CARMEN 

lANDOLO entered the Air Force via 
the O.T.S. route and subsequently for 
three years served as an aircraft mainte­
nance officer which necessitated essentially 
worldwide trips. Carmen and his wife, 
Margie, have a daughter, Adria, bom last 
November. Since his separation from 
the USAF, Carmen has worked as an 
accountant for the General Line Division 
of Chicopee Mfg. Co.—a wholly owned 
subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson located 
in New Brunswick, NJ. LT. RICK 
MODROWSKI joined the Navy after 
graduation and plans a career in it as 
a supply officer. He has been stationed at 
San Diego and the Naval Academy and is 
now stationed as the exchange officer 
to the Canadian Forces in Halifax, Nova 
Scotia. Rick and wife, Diane, have two 
children—Janet and Rick. JOHN 
DECHELLIS' wife, Barbara, expanded 
their family last December with the birth 
of Rebecca Ann. John received his MBA 
in management from Case Westem Reserve 
U. last January and recently was appointed Data Processing Manager at Sprayon Products, Inc., located in Cleveland, Ohio. PAT ROCCO has opened his own law practice in nearby Euclid. 
After graduating from law school and serving in the Army Reserve, GROVER NIX returned to San Francisco where he did civil litigation for a large law firm. For the past eight months he has served as a public defender for the City of San Francisco. Now Grover and his wife are in London, England, for a year to study at King's College, U. of London in their LLM program. Also in San Francisco is JOHN ROLAND who is serving as the city's deputy district attorney. 
The response to my plea for information has been great—don't stop. For the second time I have the pleasure of announcing an addition to my family. On May 30 my wife, Kathy (SMC '66), gave birth to our second son, Darin O'Connor. All three of us are doint; well despite the fact that very unexpectedly I had to perform most of the delivery. Please remember the new mailing address. 
James P. Hamisch, M.D. 
8661 S.R 75th Place 
Mercer Island, Wash. 98040 
'66 99 BOTTLES OF BEER 
Men of '66: This is written in the aftermath of a very enjoyable Reunion '71, the first for our class. DICK ANGELOTTI has asked that I relate in sum and substance what transpired during our two-day celebration here on campus. Since a complete list of the official registrants fol­lows I will dwell on some of the more memorable events of the weekend. 
Before going further let me say that the local arrangements committee was some­what disappointed in the turnout, although everyone who attended had— from all indications—worthwhile experiences. Although some 200 indicated they would attend, just over 90 registered, a fact which because of prior planning cost the University a good bit of money in excess food and beverage. 
The Monogram golf outing and dinner kicked off the weekend on Thursday. Attending from the class were former footbaU captain PHIL SHERIDAN, JIM MONO, DON BOUFFARD, ARUNAS VASYS, TIM KNIGHT and myself. More arrived Friday morning and the golf course began to get crowded. The liquid refresh­ment began to flow that afternoon and from that point forward those who enjoyed the taste of Stroh's and Drewry's (and quite a few who didn't particularly enjoy either but were tolerant) relaxed and enjoyed themselves. 
The class dinner took place in the Monogram Room of the ACC and the program following a tasty buffet included brief remarks by class president JOHN BUCK, Professor John Houck, Nappy Napolitano and class elections. It was proposed by the reunion committee that we keep the same lineup of ofBcers for the coming five years (JOHN BUCK, president; GREG RUST, vice president; ­JAMIE TOOHEY, treasurer; and DICK ANGELOTTl, secretary). It was also proposed that we create some new positions to facilitate class communication and participation. A slate of regional vice presidents, whose objective will be to interact as closely as possible with the men of '66 in their particular areas, was presented and elected. 
They are as follows: East—PHIL SHERIDAN, Breslin and Breslin, 41 Main St., Hackensack, NJ.; Midwest—DON BOUFFARD, Ticket Office, ACC, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556; South—WALTER BABST, 2736 Jefferson Av., New Orleans, La.; West—JIM MONO, 1520 Forest View Ave., Burlingame, Calif. 94010. Yours truly was elected reunion chairman and asked to continue to augment the class column when necessary. All local '66ers were designated members of the board of advisors. As you can see, we got everyone into the act. 
Some door prizes were also awarded at the dinner and the winners were thankful to those of you who didn't attend for inaking the odds better. Three pairs of tickets to any home game this fall were awarded through the cooperation of Bouffard and MIKE HANNIGAN was good enough to have his firm donate a valuable watch which also found a lucky winner. Unfortunately, the names of the winners escape me at the moment. 
So many unusual events transpired during the course of the weekend that it is difficult to recall them let alone recount them for you here. But I'll try a few: DAN OVERHOLSER had trouble locating his car the morning after the class dinner. It seems his recollection of where he left it didn't ring true when he awoke. RAY FLYNN and TOM BEGLEY signed a pact to be lifelong friends after a brief discussion on the quad Friday evening. DENNIS CRONIN launched a one-man verbal fusillade at the neighboring Class of '61 quite late Friday evening which was vitriolic, but quite entertaining. It evoked no response — luckily for Dennis. John Buck, Phil Sheridan, Bill GREANY and an assortment of other classmates established the record for sustained activity without sleep by contin­uing their celebration throughout Saturday evening and Sunday morning. "They con­cluded things Sunday afternoon at that famous rendezvous in Jay's Lounge and had to be the last of the '66ers to head for home. All in all, except for attendance, it was a successful reunion. Those of you who didn't make it better start planning now for 1976. 
One last note on fall Class Reunion following the MSU game October 2. We have decided to move the location to the general alumni reunion in the Athletic & Convocation Center because of the space factor and because it is air-conditioned. Look for the 1966 banner. 
1966 Attendees 
WALTER BABST, LAWRENCE ALLEN, JAMES R. ANTHONY, LOU BADIA, MIKE BASCLE, PAT BAUER, THOMAS BEGLY, JOHN BERGES, JOHN 
BISHKO, GEORGE BLAHA, DONALD BOUFFARD, KEITH BRADLEY, BARNEY BREHL, BRUCE BROMMEL, MARTIN BRUECKNER, JOHN BUCK, DONALD CAIN, PETER CAREY, MICHAEL CARRIGAN, JAMES CON­LEY, WILLIAM L. CONOLE, DENNIS CRONIN, DENNIS CURRIER, JOHN DEVONA, JAMES DeWALD, LEONARD DeWlTT, ANDREW DINCOLO, DAVID DODSON, JOSEPH DOHERTY, PAT­RICK DONOGHUE, ROBERT DOWNS, RICHARD ENGEL, JOSEPH FARRELL, RAYMOND FLYNN, WILLIAM FOERG, DENNIS FRAILEY, TED FRERICKS, ART FRIGO, RUSSELL T. GAGNON, JOHN GERAGHTY, 
E. BRIAN GRAHAM, BILL GREANY, ROBERT HAGAN, COREY HART, THOMAS HOLLAND, GARRETT ISACCO, JAMES IRETON, JOHN JACKOBOICE, PAUL J. JOUBERT, THOMAS JURANTY, TERRENCE KIWALA, TIM KNIGHT, MIKE KRACH, MICHAEL KRESS, JOHN LENTZ, MARK LEVANDOSKI, FRANK J. MALLEY, JOHN MANGOLD. JEROME MARANl, JOHN McCANN, JOHN McCUEN, HUGH McGOWAN, LUKE (John) McGUINNESS, TOM McGUIRE, PATRICK McREDMOND, JIM MONO, RAY MYERS, TERRY NORTON, HUGH O'BRIEN, JOHN O'BRIEN, MARTIN OCONNELL, DANIEL M. OLSON, SHANE O'NEIL, DAN OVERHOLSER Jr.. WILEY PICKETT, WILLIAM PRZYBYSZ, THOMAS RENKAL, ANDREW RENTZ, GUSTY RINI, ROBERT RIZA, EDWARD J. RYAN, BILL SEIDENSTICKER, LOUIS SHARP, PHIL SHERIDAN, JIM STANTON, JACK STUTZ, JOHN SULLIVAN. THOMAS J. SULLIVAN, LUIS R. TORUNO. JOHN WETLI, WILLIAM WILKIE, JOHN WYLLIE. 
Tom Sullivan for 
Dick Angelotti 
4260 Clausen 
Western Springs, III. 60058 
'66L 22 AT REUNION 
The reunion was a great success! 22 of the class attended, most with wives. Several of us arrived Thursday m'ght and were in excellent condition to play golf on Friday morning! We met with Acting Dean Murphy and several faculty members at a cocktail party Friday afternoon and held an impromptu class dinner Friday night. After the dinner, we all retired to ClifTs for a bumper pool tournament. We were in excellent condition to play golf on Saturday! 
The weather was beautiful Saturday and most of us spent the day golfing, playing tennis, and swimming. After several cocktail parties, we sped to Diamond Harbor Inn for dinner and reminiscences. Ed Murphy gave us a complete report on the current status of the school and his projections for the future. 
In addition to Cookie and me, the follow­ing were in attendance: 
Barb and SAM BERNARDI, newly\veds Dana and DENNY "Cool" DEE, Barb and TOM HULL, Terry and BOB KRAUSE, Wendy and AL McKENNA, Joan and TOM McNALLY, Maureen and BOB MURPHY, Susan and ROCCO NIEMEYER, Joan and PAUL POLKING, Bonnie and STEVE SEALL, Diane and WALT TERRY, Pat and DICK STEIN­BRONN, Mary Ellen and RON VETTEL, JoAnn and MAURY NELSON, TOM KENNY, BOB SIEBERT, BEN ASPERO, MICK ROCHE and bride, JIM ANTHONY, BILL SANNEMAN, JAY DAUGHERTY. 
I received very warm letters of regret from TOM HARVEY. Pat and MARTY IDZIK, PETE IPPOLITO (Tom, Marty and Pete meet regularly in Munich to imbibe) MIKE SULLIVAN, ROSS PETERSON, DENNY SUNDERHAUS, FRANK RHSER, SCOTTY MAXWELL, and JOHN GOTTLICK. In addiUon, JOHN HAUGH, JIM HAKES, and TOM READY were planning to come, but had to bow out at the last minute. As might be expected, I received all sorts of information from everyone in attendance (let's keep the information flowing more than once every five years!), and I will bring everyone up to date in the next couple of issues. 
Steve Seall deserves a vote of thanks from everyone for his efficiency in taking care of all of the local arrangements. I was informed by Dean O'Meara and Ed Murphy that ours was the first law school class to bring off a reum'on as complete and well attended as this was, and I told them that fact did not surprise me in the least. All during law school I kept telling the administration and faculty that the eccentricity displayed regularly by our class was not a sign of weakness, but of latent genius! 
We ended the weekend by adopting a resolution that all of us who could would be at the Michigan State game on Oct. 2. 
Francis M. Gregory, Jr. 5018 Woodland Way Annandale, Va. 22003 
•67 LIMITED EDITION 
Based on the cheery correspondence which I have received over the past several months, you guys have been making the best of the sun-filled days. Unfortunately, this cheeriness was marred by the news that another of our classmates has died in Southeast Asia — JOSEPH STANLEY SMITH. As many of you will recall, Joe had only recently brought us up to date on his whereabouts. The mishap took place on April 4 while Joe was flying a F-lOO in a mission over Cambodia. A memorial service was held in Joe's home town. As­sumption, 111. Heartfelt sympathy is expressed to Joe's wife Ruth Elaine. Thanks to ROBERT PLEBANEK for furnishing mc with the background for this un­fortunate event. Bob is a captain with the Air Force and pilots a KC-135 out of Ells­worth AFB, So. Dak. STEVE O'CON­NOR is stationed at the same base and is serving as a missile launch officer. 
WALT RILEY, after three years in the Navy, is temporarily back home in Mun­ster, Ind. His near term plans include a trip to Boston in search of that elusive animal called "employment." While in Boston, Walt is looking forward to getting together with JOHN GREGORY who will be studying theology at Harvard this fall. Concerning a review of Walt's recent ex­periences since ND, he informs me that he entered the Navy at Newport, R.I., in the same OCS class as BILL SULLIVAN and a few classes after SKIP GIESTING and his former roommate BILL POL­L(X;K . After OCS and Communications School, Walt served as communications officer for 32 months aboard the de­stroyer Fiske. Upon discharge last March, he received the Navy Commendation medal. At the same time LOU SULLIVAN was serving on the Fiske's sister ship, the 
U.S.S. Basilone. Walt says he has been meeting up with a number of our class­mates. For instance, BOB REIDY and Walt spent time in the Fort Lauderdale sun during Easter week, and both of them agree that the Fort, "just ain't what it used to be." Currently, Bob is teaching high school on the South Side of Chicago. TED STRANSKY and his wife Anna crossed Walt's path as they traveled through Chicago en route to St. Paul, Minn., where Ted will intern for a year. While in South Bend for the Blue-Gold game, Walt looked up DAN KOOB who has been instructing collegiate seminar atND. 
47 
F 

JOE FINNERTY informs us that he is 
finishing up his tour of duty with Uncle 
Sam where in the capacity of a first Lt. 
on the general staff of the Army Security 
Agency he has been an electronics engi­
neer. For his contributions Joe has 
received the Merit Service Medal. In Sep­
tember he and his wife Sandra will move 
to Ann Arbor, Mich., where he will be a 
teaching assistant whtile working on his 
Ph.D. in Finance at the U. of Mich. 
We continue to hear news of graduations 
from our class medicine men. ROBERT 
SCHWARZ graduated from the College 
of Medicine at U. of Iowa in May. Bob 
is interning at St. Joseph Hospital, Mil­
waukee. He has married the former Sally 
DeVaughn Lane of Biloxi, Miss., whom he 
met at U. of I. 

BILL TOMS writes from Charlottes­
ville, Va., where he is interning at the U. 
of Va., hospital. As of June Bill received 
his M.D. and master's in public health 
from Yale Medical School. He and his 
wife, the former Mary Angela Trino 
(SMC '67), have been busy parents of 
one-year-old Angela Marie. Mary had been 
teaching in the inner city prior to Angela's 
arrival and has earned an M.A. in urban 
education. 

Bill recently heard from Dick Her­rick, who was in our class but finished school at the U. of West Va.; and Dick, his wife Stella and their two children will be moving to Austin, Texas, where he will intern after having graduated from U. of West Va. Medical School. Bill's ND room­mate KEVIN HEALY is somewhere in Par­aguay now that he has finished his Peace Corps tour in Peru. 
FRED M. KULLMAN, EDWARD P. ROSE and CHARLIE IMBUS have also received M.D. degrees. Fred got his de­gree at the U. of Colorado. His internship is scheduled for Los Angeles County Harbor General Hospital. Ed completed his studies in June at the Washington School of Medicine in St. Louis. He will intern at the Jewish Hospital in St. Louis. CharUe received his M.D. in June from Ohio State U. and will reside in Los Angeles. Another medicine man, MATTHEW MALERICH has completed a two-month volunteer tour of service aboard the hos­pital ship S.S. Hope, which was in conjunc­tion with his medical studies at the Loyola U., Chicago. 
JOE KANE writes from Cincy where he is associated with the law firm, Gray-don, Head, and Ritchey, that after spend­ing a year in London on the ND Law School "year abroad" program, he and his wife (Nancy Buescher SMC '68) returned to ND to complete his law studies, and in June '70 he received his J.D. Home life for Nancy and Joe has been busy since mid-January when the Kanes welcomed their first, Julie Elizabeth, into the world. 
Because of space limitations, I'm going 
to have to cut short this column. But in the 
September issue, we'll hear from BOB 
HUSSON, TOM GETZ, DICK VEIT, 
BILL CROWLEY and BERNIE McARA. 
Thanks, fellas, for the deluge of friendly 
and informative mail. 
Jack Buttler 4023 Elaine Place So. Columbus, Ohio 43227 
'68L LITTLE, BUT GOOD 

Not much to report this month, but what little there is is good news. BUD and Betty SEALL announced that a sister, Elizabeth Colleen, had arrived for their son, Billy. She was bom on April 19 and weighed 8 lbs., 7 oz. Bud has been extreme­ly busy at the firm. He continues to be involved in corporate work, specializing in securities. Recently he has been making a number of trips to New York, working on a stock issue. 
As you can see, I am running out of 
news fast. If you have the chance, drop a 
line. 
Lieut. Dennis C. Thelen, Jagc, 
USNR Force Legal Office 

Commander Service Force, U.S. Atlantic 
Fleet, Norfolk, Va. 23511 
'69 'CAPTAIN ELECTRIC 
TONY ALESSANDRA was the first to 
write this month. Tony explains he was 

married last summer to the former Janice 
Van Dyke of New London, Conn., just 

after he received his M.B.A. from the U. 
of Connecticut. Currently he is teaching 

human relations, introduction to manage­
ment science, and marketing courses at 
Susquehanna U. in Pennsylvania. In his 

spare time, he organized a rugby club at 
the university which fielded two teams and 
finished 2-4-1 in its first season. "Tony is 
also finding time to work on his Ph.I). in 
marketing at nearby Penn State, which he 
plans to complete by June, 1973. 

Remember "Captain Electric" of Delphic Oracle fame? DENNIS LOPEZ writes that he and GEOFF GILLETTE together with GUS DUFFY '64 and Barney Schultz of South Bend have retained the identity while living on the West Coast Their first album will be released late this summer on the "Corduroy" label and distributed by RCA. They will be touring this summer and hope to get back to South Bend. 
MARK SCHNEIDER is serving his time with the Marine Corps as an auditor in Okinawa. Although he detests his cause, it has allowed him to travel to Taiwan, the Philippines and later to Japan or Singapore. Mark informed us with tidbits on several other classmates. BERN MUR­PHY is currently boning up on his German for the Army with the hope of serving as an interpreter of some sort. LARRY "Mes" KAMMES has finished up his 
M.B.A.
 studies at the U. of Chicago. Larry is utterly fed up with school although he is considering law school at some future date. Rumor has it that BILL TITO while sweating through med school at the 

U.
 of Illinois Circle Campus, is basking in the charms of a certain nurse, but is hedging against that last long walk down the aisle. Bill was always characteristically slow of movement. CHRIS MARDORF is teaching high school in Cleveland and enjoying every minute. By the way, Chris, do you still owe Mark a letter? ROY ARNN, bored with his job in the aerospace industry, is now going to Indiana U. for a degree in veterinary medicine. PERRY and Karen ABERLI were still in South Bend as Perry was working on his master's. Perry should have graduated in June. What are you up to now. Perry? 


KIP HORVATH wrote from Vietnam that he is doing accounting work in the Bien Hoa area. Kip plans to be home for the latter part of the '71 football season. Kip writes that TOM LAMB is stationed with the Navy in London where he ran into COLEY O'BRIEN. Small worid. BRAD McCONVILLE is now married and in med school at the U. of Iowa. LARRY MO­LONEY is teaching English at St. Mary's Academy in South Bend and TIM RODDY is about to get his M.B.A. from Michigan State. 
JERRY McHUGH responded from Fort Devens, Mass., where he acts as the Army's personnel clerk. When he's dis­charged in October, Jerry plans a nice rest His wife, Mary, will be teaching school as he collects unemployment insurance for a few months. BOB JONES is now married to the former Vicki Sampeck (SMC) and living in Germany as Bob serves as a lieutenant in the Army. DOUG SIMON has just been named an editor of the Southern California Law Review. He was a semi-finalist in the moot court competition and a member of the weightlifling club on campus. BOB SURDYK was elected president of the Student Bar Assn. at the 
U. of Cincinnati. Military news tells us ED RETTERER is now a first lieutenant with the Army in Germany. FRED FOR­DYCE is a spec-4 while working in per­sonnel at Fort Hood, Tex. And JOHN KOEPPEL has entered Air Force pilot training at Laredo. 
This month we were grieved to learn of 
the death of another classmate and 
friend, ED GALLAGHER. Our heartfelt 

sympathy is extended to Ed's family. 
Last but not least is a report on the adventures of our duly elected class presi­dent DAVE WITT. Last summer Dave hitchhiked throu^ South America and managed to get himself arrested in Argen­tina in connection with the murder of an American F.B.I, man. Also he received a few Spanish-speaking beasties in his stomach and his intestines haven't been the same since. (Could only happen to Dave.) This summer he's traveling to Eastern Eu­rope, then down through the Middle East and across Northern Africa. When he wrote the letter he was in Amsterdam, which as you might guess is not a typical Midwestern town. This fall Dave will be in his second year at Case Western Reserve Law. PAUL GAMBRELL will be in his last year at Case and BILL DELL is re­turning to his native California to teach school. 
Football season is soon upon us. Let's plan to meet at the ACC after the games, renew acquaintances, gather troops and let ND know we have returned. 
Hang easy. 

Mike Neumeistcr 
64 West Winspear Ave. 
Buffalo, N.Y. 14214 
'69MB.A. VOWS FOR DAVE 
Either the new postal corporation isn't functioning very well, or my fellow MBA's have not been writing. The news is particu­larly sparse. 
The night life in the city of Detroit suffered the greatest loss since Denny McClain was traded when DAVE DAY took his marriage vows recently. Dave was married to the former Miss Denise Gibney on June 19. We understand that Dave signed a contract with a reserve clause even more restrictive than baseball's. Best wishes to Dave and his new bride. 
We were very pleased to hear from the XAVIER MONGE family. Writing from Casilla No. 6037, Guayaquil, Ecuador, Xavier informs us that he has been em­ployed by a brewery. He has recently been promoted to plant manager and is finding a great deal of interest and challenge in his job. His company is undergoing a S3 mil­lion expansion program with Xavier in charge of it. We are especially glad to report that Maria Jose, the Monges' daughter, is doing well after having a rough time of it for quite a while. The Monges are also planning to buy a home in the near future. 
With the fall coming up before we know it, another football season approaches with an opportunity to get together over Irish football. If anyone has any ideas for a mass gathering of MBA's for any par­ticular date, let's hear about it so we can inform the faithful. As a matter of fact let's hear from you about any subject 
Joe Cavato 
7122 Vernon University City, Mo. 63130 
'70 NO LONGER LAST 
With the graduation of the class of '71, we are no longer relegated to last place in the Alumni News. Let's hojje that this year produces more information about our class than the last. 
Starting with the A's, we see that TONY ALHOLM has returned to Texas after a 

year with the law school in London. He 
reported that his last six weeks there were 
busy, mostly because the first 30 were 
not. Nevertheless, all his education and 
worldliness can't get him a summer job. 
In the same boat is BILL SHEEHAN, in 
Westchester, 111., for the summer. He'll 
return to teaching in the fall, but not in 
Clarksdale, Miss., where he spent last year. 
MIKE O'BRIEN has been transferred to 
Germany from Fort Leonard Wood. The 
Class of 1974 Washington U. Medical 
School Freshman Class Intramural Soft­
ball team will miss Mike, as he was our 
catcher for the games every Saturday. He 
didn't spend a single weekend at the Fort. 
The rest of the ND grads on the team 
have also temporarily abandoned soft­
baU. FRED NACHTWEY is studying " 
Vitamin D resistant rickets at Jewish Hos­
pital, TERRY FULLER is doing sleep 
research in St. Louis, and I'm in Spring­
field, 111., for 10 weeks. My work is part 
of the nationwide MECO (Medical Edu­
cation and Community Orientation) pro­
gram for poslfreshman medical students. 
Each week, a different physician intro­
duces me to all phases of his practice — 
from early-morning surgery to late-after­
noon office visits. Last week's medical 
society picnic was one of the side benefits. 
Third-hand reports indicate that 
KEVIN HORAN is a worid traveler come 
back to roost. After stints in Mexico and 
Hawaii as an oceanographer, he is now 
back in South Bend. 
JIM PHELPS, now at the Harvard 
Business School, will wed Nancy McGlinn 
(SMC '71) this summer and she will teach 
in Bean Town in the fall. In the same 
vein, JIM MORRISSEY, now with a De­
troit advertising firm, will marry Anne 
O'Brien (SMC '71) in August. 
More news of Chicago residents: MARTY McFADDEN, SKIP GILMAR­TIN, and ED HOGAN are living together in an apartment on Rush Street across from Mr. Kelly's. Marty is teaching in high school, while Ed is a dean of discipline. 
MIKE McCORMACK is now teaching in Rochester, N.Y., and plans to enter Brooklyn Law School in September. Mike married Miss Eleanor Synan, June 20, 1970. A son, Patrick Michael, was bom on April 4, 1971. At the tender age of four weeks, young Pat made the trip to ND with Mike and El to meet all his "Fightin' Irish Uncles" who had attended his parents' wedding in Springfield, Mass. Among them were JOE UTZ, DAVE SWEITZER, LARRY LIJEWSKl, MIKE CREANY, JOHN SKOPEC. DICK TERRELL and wife Marybeth also made the reunion in May with their young son, Richard. 
DAVID DECOURSEY is studying urban planning in New York for a while—Ford­ham I think (correct me if I'm wrong, Dave). RICK MORAN still falls asleep in class, but wakes in time to prove he be­longs where he is studying graduate English. JOHN KEYS will attend Georgetown Law School next year. A year working for a Dayton, Ohio, newspaper was enough to convince him the country needs his help. In August he'll marry Sue Gies (SMC '71). 
JACK PIERCE is still sailing the seas for Uncle Sam, as is CHRIS SERVANT, although both were back in the Bend for graduation. 1 received a letter from Pat Lyons (SMC '70) the other day. She's still studying Spanish literature in Mexico City, and reported that Fr. Hesburgh visited her at Christmas. Her cousin BOB O'NEIL was seriously injured in a car accident last fall, and only now is he showing signs of real strength. Another hospital dweller for an extended period was MIKE MCDONALD in Chicago. He now is at least as healthy as a dollar. 
Our Peace Corps contingent continues to prosper: GREG SULLIVAN in Ghana reports his nutrition clinics are very suc­cessful. MIKE DUFFY in Nepal and TOM BICH in Kenya are also doing well. 
But the champ is JOHN BRUGGER, who 
is playing semiprofessional basketball in 
Morocco, while coaching a boys' junior 
high school team. 
2nd Lt. UEL PITTS wrote recently to 
complain about the lack of news from our 
class. Here's his report: "I presently live 
at 4217 A, 35th St., Lubbock, Texas 
79413, with ray wife and daughter. I am 
employed by USAF at Reese AFB. I am 
awaiting orders following my graduation 
from pSot training on 8 July, 1971." 
See you at the next reunion. 
Don Graham, 
2009 Glenwood, 
Springfield, III. 62704 
70L -LONDON LUCKIES' 
Received a nice note from PAT and Kay 
DOHERTY announcing the arrival of their 
first son, Colin Pearson, on June 5. Pat's 
clerkship with Judge Kilkenny is finished 
in August, at which time he will join a 
small Portland firm. Pat is wondering when 
the "London Luckies" are going to have 
a reunion. 
Speaking of new arrivals, KEN and 
Marie IVERSON welcomed David Gregory 
on April 7. Marie writes that the baby is 
precious and the parents are ecstatic. 

As usual, I received a long letter from 
JOE LEAHY. Joe is stiU living in Arling­
ton, Va., and has been joined by TERRY 
O'CONNER for the summer. Terry is 
spending his summer as a legal planner for 
the Appalachian Regional Commission. 
Joe sends word that JOHN KLEIN re­
cently completed Military Police Officers' 
School at Fort Gordon, Ga. John has 
accepted a position with the Criminal 
Division of the Justice Department, and 
will be living in Washington, D.C. BOB 
MCDONNEL L is currently at Fort Gordon, 
Ga., for Military Police Officers' School. 
JAMIE and Kevin CAWLEY have used Kevin's airline discount rates to return to London four times in the last few months. He has even started a small importing business. What a life! Jamie is enjoying clerking in Harrisburg, Pa. He re­ports that BILL and Barbara KECK wel­comed John Bradley into their life on April 17. Bill has passed both the Ohio and New York bars, and is presently working for a Wall Street firm. Jamie also relates that DICK and Dolores JORDAN have been busy in Columbus, Ohio. Dick is now senior law clerk for Judge Kinneary, and Dolores is presently teaching at Ohio Dominican College while she writes her Ph.D. thesis. 
JOHN and Marie PLUMB were trans­ferred to Anchorage, Alaska, in April. John was promoted to captain and is now handling criminal cases rather than legal aid work. Their address is 1632 Beaver PI., Apt. 2, Anchorage, Alaska. MIKE and JoAnn KELLEHER are living in Buffalo. Mike passed the New York Bar and is working for a Buffalo firm. GRANT ZAJAS is also working in Buffalo where he has been appointed Assistant Erie County district attorney. 
JACK and Dee Dee VAN DE NORTH are now stationed at Fort Dix, NJ., in the Armored Division. LEN and Marcia GOS­LOWSKI and TOM and Joyce SOPKO are living in South Bend. Both Len and Tom are working for South Bend firms. STtR-LING and Bev APAINHOUR are settled in Winston-Salem, N.C., where they have recently welcomed another son, Brian. JERRY and Kathy PERRY are presently stationed at Quantico, Va., where Herr Perry is in the Marines. RICH and Maureen SULLIVAN are living in Buffalo, 
N.Y. Maureen recently gave birth to a Ijaby sister for Brian. FRANK and Louise WRIGHT are living in Washington, D.C. Frank is attached to the JAG and working for the Defense Department. TOM and Mary HARVICK are in Chicago where Tom is working for a firm. 
Nancy and I are fine and love Cincin­
nati. We called DAN RYBAK the other 
night to make plans to attend the ND­
USC game on Oct 23. Dan tells me that 
DAVE RICHARDS will many Margaret 
Roberts (SMC '69) on July 31, 1971, in 
Columbus, Ohio. I understand Uiat they 
met at the Cotton Bowl! Dave and Mar­
garet will reside in Washington, D.C, after 
Dave takes the Indiana Bar. He will be 
working with the FCC. I understand 
that another former classmate, JOHN 
SMITH, will finish his military service in 
Germany in June. After spending the 
summer in Europe, he and Aimie will re­
turn to ND for John's last year of law 
school. 
I'd like to thank everyone who sent me 
all the news and thus made this month's 
column tougher to write than last month's 
(which, in case you didn't notice, I didn't 
write because I had no news at all). Make it 
tough on me — keep the news coming! 
Joseph E. Kane 
Apt. 401 
5465 Kenwood Rd. 
Cincinnati, Ohio 45224 
'71 'OLD' .\LREADY 
With graduation only one month behind IK 
it will probably seem funny to be reading 
about your "old" classmates already. The 
realization that we won't be seeing many 
of our friends for a long time to come 
has not sunk in yet. I hope I can keep 
you a little better informed of what people 
are doing. 
The alumni reunions, held on campus a few weeks ago, had several members of the class working on the staff. Class president, JIM D'AURORA, made a great bartender. It was probably due to his experience at the Senior Bar. Several seminars were held that weekend, one of which was on Student Power at Notre Dame. ED DAVEY was one of the panelists who did a superb job of helping the alumni group get an idea of what ND is like today. Bd and I are living off campus here this summer. He is waiting to go on active duty with the Army Reserves and then on to Law School. 1 am waiting to go to the Navy's Nuclear Power School in Califonua. Waiting along with me are GENE SULLIVAN and CLYDE McFARLAND. 
The last I heard BOB POHL was head­ing down to Mississippi to teach for the summer. MARK ZIMMERMAN is at the Navy Supply School in Athens, Ga. DAVE MCCARTHY is now working for the Chicago News Bureau. Just call him "Scoop." 
JIM FAUGHTS wedding was the site of a one-week reunion for quite a few people. Jim married Mary Beth Gallagher (SMC 71) in Detroit. Some of the '71ers there were MIKE CORRIGAN, GREG MURRAY, JOHN AMATO, CARL VAL­ENTINO, TIM DiPIERO, PAUL DUS­SEAU and TOM EGAN. I hope I didn't forget too many. Actually I'll probably get some static from some of the members of SMC '71 for not including them, especially after the recent merger. 
BERNIE LeSAGE and his wife Joan are here in town for the summer. In the fall they will pack up their son, Jimmy, and head out to California. Bemie is going to Loyola Law School in L^ . 
There have been quite a few weddings in the past few weeks and there are still more to come. TIM CONNOR's in Syra­cuse, DAVE KRASHNA's and DON OSMAN's in Pittsburgh, and JACK SCHAEFER's in DeUoit, just to men­tion a few. 
On the not-so-bright side we offer our condolences to the families of Bill Spellman and Kevin Conway both of '72 who died in the past few weeks. Also to DAVE LAMMERS and LIONEL MALONEY whose fathers just passed away. To all of 
them we send our prayers. 

In the future I hope to include some­
thing from as many class members as pos­
sible, so let me know what you are up to. 
Tony Earley 
18169 State Rd. 23 
South Bend, ind. 46637 
•71MB.V F.VTHER DIES 

We were saddened to hear of the death of GARY GROOM'S father. Robert Groom, soon after our graduation. Our sympathy to all of the Groom family. Gary and Monica have returned to Tampa, and are now living at the Chalet Apts., 5018 Bush Blvd., Apt. 101, Tampa 33617. The complex has two pools. Sounds like a pleasant stopping-off place for those journeying to Miami for the hoped-for Orange Bowl game. 
MIKE and Adrienne GREENE are the proud parents of Jennifer Elizabeth (8 lbs., 7 oz.) bom June 10. Congrats to all the GREENES who'll soon be off to work for Corning. 
TERRY and Gay WALTS are in St. Louis, working for Lever Bros, until the Army calls in February. February is also the expected deliveo' date of the first little Walts. Considering the free medical service given by the Army, that is what I'd call good timing. 
Not much else in the way of news. . . . Hoping to see all of you "Quantum-Leapers" for the USC game this fall. There will be a team meeting immediately following the game at 1955 Trent Way (if I^ A ever approves the loan!!). Belle­ville Labs may be turned in any time be­fore Groundhog Day. BOB DUNHAM will be reviewing your income sheets and balance statements. 
Please let us hear from you at the above address. . . . One final note. . . . JOE DELILLO is rumored to be director of corporate cosmetology for the Harris Gift Store. Until next issue. 
Mike Henn 2200 American Bank BIdg. South Bend, Ind. 46601 
BIOLOGY 

\VILLIAM R. KLEMM, PhX). '63, re­ceived the award of Distinguished Member for Research Achievement from the Texas A & M Chapter of Sigma Xi. This newly inaugurated award is given to a member under 40 years of age and who has done his research during the past five years at Texas A & M. Bill's work on the physiology of brain control of motor mechanisms was cited. His second book, "Science, the Brain, and Our Future," will be released by 
the American Institute of Biological Sci­
ences this summer. He is also serving as an 
Associate Editor of the journal, "Com­
munications in Behavioral Biology." 
PAUL HITCHO, Ph.D. '71, will become 
a postdoctoral research associate in the 
Department of Zoology, U. of Massachu­
setts, this summer. THOMAS BONNER, 
postdoctoral research associate 1969-71, has 
accepted a faculty position in the Depart­
ment of Biology, S.U.N.Y. at Brockport, 
N.Y. 
The Department of Biology now has two 
National Institutes of Health training 
grants — in vector biology and in parasi­
tology. Any graduates who have promis­
ing doctoral candidates interested in either 
area are urged to encourage the students to 
contact us. 
DOUGLAS TAYLOR, postdoctoral re­
search associate, '70-71,-will join the faculty 
in the Department of Biology, Miami 
(Ohio) U., this fall. 
CARLOS MACHADO-ALLISON, Ph.D., 
'71, returned to the Institute of Tropical 
Zoology, Lab. Genetics and Evolution, 
Apartado 10098, Caracas. Venezuela. 
PAUL MCDONALD, Ph.D. '7o, wiu go to Mombasa, Kenya, for a ND overseas research program involving genetic control of mosquitoes. The early facets of this study will be primarily field surveys. 
Ralph E. Thorson 
Department of Biology 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
CHEMISTRY 
Professors Charles Brambel, Milton Burton and Frederick Rossini were named Emeriti at the president's dinner in May. Both Dr. Burton and Dr. Rossini received special awards from Father Hesburgh at the June commencement. Dr. Rossini was appointed professor of chemistry at Rice U. in Houston, efi'ective Aug. I. Prof. John Magee is the new director of the Radiation Laboratory. Prof. Tom Fehlner partici­pated in a Boron conference in Czecho­slovakia in June and I will present a paper at the organometallic conference in Mos­cow in August. 

GENE ASHBY '57, professor at Georgia Tech, was awarded the Lavoisier Medal of the French Chemical Society. He was honored for his contributions to organo­metallic chemistry, particularly to the understanding of the structure of the Grignard reagent. TOM BARDOS '49, pro­fessor of medicinal chemistry and bio­chemical pharmacology at the State U. of New York at Buffalo, received the 1971 Ebert Prize of the American Pharmaceutical Association as the author of the best sci­entific report in the Journal of Pharma­ceutical Chemistry for 1970. JAY YOUNG '50, professor at Auburn U., received one of the four Outstanding Chemistry Teacher Awards of the Manufacturing Chemists Association for 1971. 
Sr. PATRICIA MULLINS, SCH '68, is at Cambridge U. for the summer and tour­ing British universities. DEMETRIOS PETRIDIS '68, with the Greek AEC in Athens, will be researching at Birbeck Col­lege in London during the fall semester. Recent visitors to the campus included PAUL GERACE '61, back for the class of '56 reunion. Paul is in charge of the Busi­ness Products Group at Xerox in Rochester. Also Sr. FRANCES deCHANTAL Mc-LEESE SL '42, who will be teaching at Texas College, Tyler, Tex., in September; and Sr. MARY CHARLES WESCHLER RSM MS'51 (Ph.D. Carnegie Tech), from Mercyhurst College in Erie, Pa., who has been at the Argonne Laboratories most of the past year. 
Bro. Columba Curran CSC Dept. of Chemistry Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
ENGLISH 
After May commencement there were 17 new alumni. Our new Ph.D.s are FRANK NICHOLAS CLARY JR., LARRY A. GRAY, NORBERT A. KRAPP (M.A. '65), ROBERT J. LEWIS, PAUL C. PARLATO, JOHN D. QUINN 
(M.A.
 '64), JOHN W. SIDER, and WIL­LIAM H. SLAVICK (M.A. '51). This group brings the total of doctorates granted in English to 111. Nine women were awarded master's degrees this spring: Mrs. SUE M. BRANDER. Mrs. JEANNE 

E.
 DERBECK, ELIZABETH M. DRAKE, PATRICIA S. FENELON, Sister MIRIAM GLOWACZ, MARY M. KRAUS, MARY 

C.
 MURPHY, Sister BEVERLY MAY, and BARBARA SCHOFIELD. At commence­ment an honorary LL.D. was conferred on veteran teacher FRANK O'MALLEY, 


M.A. '33. And a special President's Award for distinguished service to the University was presented to retiring Graduate School Dean Rev. PAUL E. BEICHNER CSC M.A. '41. 
After she received her M.F.A. from the 
U. of Iowa last summer. Sister JUDINE KING, M.A., '58, received a two-year appointment as Supervisor of the Fresh­man Writing Program and Visiting Lec­turer at the American University in Cairo, Egypt. WILLIAM B. MADDEN, M.A. "56, now finishing his second year of teach­ing at Snider High School in Fort Wayne, has been appointed head of the English department at the new Wayne High School. Moving from the U. of Montana to the 
U. of Tulsa, Okla., is JOSEPH R. MILLICHAP, M.A. '62, Ph.D. '70, where he will teach advanced undergraduate and graduate courses. He was elected chairman of the Medieval-Renaissance section of the Rocky Mountain MLA and will preside over its fall meeting in Las Vegas. An opera "No Game for Kids" with a libret­to by PHILIP O'MARA, M.A. '61, Ph.D. '70, was performed at Tougaloo College in Mississippi on January 23 and 
24. Sister KATHRYN SCHWERZLER, 
M.A.
 '66 (formeriy Sr. Sienna), who now lives in Omaha, is a member of the Exec­utive Board and Director of Public Rela­tions for the Western Province of the School Sisters of Saint Francis. Named editor of the Denver Register, one of the local editions of the National Register chain of Catholic newspapers, is JAMES 

R.
 SENA. M.A. '60. 


The ND English Association summer meeting held July 23 and 24 focused on the topic "Literature and Society." The guest lecturer, John Hurt Fisher, Secretary of the MLA and professor at New York U., was scheduled to speak on "The Perils of an Articulate Society." Promoted to the rank of professor this spring was Donald Costello. Three professors were honored for 25 years of service: Paul Mc-Lane, Ernest Sandeen, and Rev. C. A. Soleta, CSC. Professor James Robinson has been appointed to a second three-year term as Department chairman. And after 45 years of service to the de­partment, the university and the profes­sion. Professor ANDREW SMITH­BERGER MA '27 has retired. His wisdom, patience, grace and good humor will be • remembered by his former students and will be missed by his colleagues. 
Robert M. Slabey English Department Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
HISTORY 
At the commencement, LAWRENCE BRADLEY, WILLIAM FOWLER, PHILIP RILEY, CARL SCHOTT, and JOHN WOODS received their doctorates. Master's degrees were awarded to DOROTHY ANN AUTREY, LOIS EBY, EDWARD GRODE, VINCENT O'BRIEN, GEORGE PATTERSON, KATHLEEN ANDREWS REYNOLDS, ALFRED ROACH, RICH­ARD SISTI and GARY WESTHAUSEN. 
Despite the tight job market most of our students who were seeking positions have been able to find something. JON REYN­OLDS will become archivist at George­town U., JOHN PATTON wfll join the faculty of Mount St. Joseph College in Cincinnati, and JOHN HIGHBARGER will join the staff of the Franklin D. Roose­velt Library in Hyde Park, New York. LAWRENCE BRADLEY will join the ND faculty as a replacement in the field of 
U.S. Constitutional History for EDWARD MENARD who has been summoned to military service. Due in part to the merger with St. Mary's there will be many other changes in our faculty in the coming year. CARL ESTABROOK and JOHN WIL­LIAMS have departed, the latter to a posi­tion at the U. of Illinois at Chicago Circle. From St. Mary's we will be joined by CHARLES POINSATTE and JACK DETZLER in U.S. History, RITA CAS­SIDY in African History and American Negro History, ANTHONY BLACK in British and Modem European History, Rev. JAMES ZATKO in Russian and East European History, and CYRIAC PULI­APILLY in Reformation and European Intellectual History. We have also added to our faculty JAMES KRITZECK in Is­lamic and Middle Eastern Studies, Brother BERNARD DONAHOE in U.S. History and Rev. JAY DOLAN in American Church History. 
Brother RICHARD SITAR returned from Europe last winter where he had spent a year doing research for his doctoral dis­sertation. He has been doing substitute teaching at St. Joseph High School in South Bend this past spring. JOSEPH GRANDE, Chairman of the History De­partment at d'Youville College in Buffalo, was here in May to deliver a spirited lec­ture on the career of Congressman Peter 
B. Porter of New York, the subject of Joe's doctoral dissertation. He reports that DAVID GORMAN and RAMON ABARCA of Canisius College are in good health and spirits, and that WALTER GRAY of Loyola in Chicago is still in Rome. 
HOWARD PHILLIPS was in South Bend for a visit during May. Howard is mar­ried and lives in Indianapolis where he divides his time between a real estate busi­ness and teaching at Butler University. Charles Poinsatte and Anthony Black of St. Mary's put in their annual week at Princeton this June grading advance placement examinations. They report that the food there is as good as usual. (This appears to be no job for the diet conscious.) 
The History Department Softball Ma­rauders levelled all opposition this spring en route to a 6-0 season and a league championship. This achievement, coming hard on the heels of last year's 6-2 season, clearly singles out Manager LESLIE RUDNYANZSKY as one of the premier baseball intellects of our age. His lifetime managerial winning percentage of .778 is higher than that of John J. McGraw, Con­nie Mack, Casey Stengel, Leo Durocher, or Napoleon Bonaparte. 
Bernard Norling Department of History Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
LAW 
Dean TOM SHAFFER '61L, arrived June 15 and is busy at work. 
Miss Marianne Hopkins, formerly Director of Admissions, has been named Law School Administrator. Miss Hopkins will now supervise all nonprofessional staff, admissions, registration, records, budget and scheduling. 
Assistant Dean LES FOSCHIO will con­tinue in that post and share responsibilities with the Dean with particular attention to students and faculty. 
Prof. Bud Murdock, recently appointed chairman of the St. Joseph County Pollu­tion Control, is working on his book on the Illinois Business Corporation Act. The first volume of Professor Rob Rodes' three-volume study on Anglicanism will be pub­lished by Blackwells. Dean Shaffer's "Handbook for Planning and Drafting Wills and Torts" will be published by Founda­tion Press next spring. 
Professors Link, Murphy and Thornton are teaching at the Law School's summer session at Brunei University, London, which began June 21. Approximately 100 students from numerous American law schools, including ND, are attending. Professor Paul Moo, former South Bend attorney and counsel to Associates, has joined the faculty in the commercial law area. 
Mrs. GRACE OLIVEREZ '70L, is vice-chairman of a Federal Commission on Population Growth and the American Future. 
ROBERT L. MILLER. '47L, was ap­pointed St. Joseph County Superior Court Judge. 
The ND Legal Aid and Defender As­sociation received S19,000 from Michigan's Criminal Justice Planning Agency to establish a program to work with the Cass County prosecutor's office year round. 
The class of '71 has generated the following job profile: clerkships, 9; law firms, 28; prosecutor's offices, 3; Legal Aid offices, 4; Graduate School, 1; Govern­ment, 3 (1-FBI; 1-FCC; 1-U.S. Atty's Office); accounting firms, 4; corporations, 3; military, 16; uncommitted, 8. 
Leslie G. Foschio Notre Dame Law School Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
PHYSICS 
According to the June, 1971, Commence­ment Exercises Bulletin, the ranks of our physics Ph.D. alumni have increased by eight members, making our total 169 as of July 1, 1971. The new members are RONALD A. BELT (nuclear spectros­copy), DENNIS L. FRIESEL (nuclear physics), EDMUND A. HARRINGTON (elementary particle physics), WILLIAM 
B. MADDEN (elementary particle physics), ROBERT J. PARKER (theoretical phys­ics), ALBERT E. RAINIS (nuclear spectroscopy), WILLIAM W. SEREMAK (nuclear spectroscopy), and PAUL H. SMITH (elementary particle physics). 
Next, here are some of our older Ph.D. alumni who have recently been in the news: 
DONALD J. ANTHONY '53 (nuclear 
physics) was recently named to the board 
of trustees of La Salle Institute. Don is 
head of G.E.'s operating nuclear plants 
component at Knolls Atomic Power Lab­
oratory in Schenectady, N.Y. Don, wife 
Norma, and five children, live at 228 
Spring Ave., Troy, N.Y. 12180. (See also 
Physics Grad column for July-August, 
1968.) 
MICHAEL J. BRIENZA '64 (physical electronics), wife Isabelle, and three chil­dren, Cheryl, David, and ? (my records need updating), live at 143 Blue Ridge Drive, Manchester, Conn. 06040. Mike was one of our own undergraduate physics majors, B.S. '60. He stayed on at ND for his graduate work in physics. After re­ceiving his Ph.D. degree. Mike joined United Aircraft Research Labs, where, until recently, he served as chief, applied laser technology. According to the latest word from our Alumni Office, Mike is now chief of electro-optics research and devel­opment for the Norden Division of United Aircraft. 
RICHARD DITTMAN '65 (physical electronics), wife Maria, and two children, Susanna and ? (better check in, Dick), live at 2344 East Back Bay, Milwaukee, Wis. 53202. Dick received his B.S. degree from the U. of Santa Clara in 1959. After completing work for his Ph.D. degree at ND, Dick was awarded an appointment as guest scientist at the Fritz-Haber Institute in Berlin, Germany, for the 1965-66 year. In 1966 he joined the faculty of the Depart­ment of Physics, the U. of Wisconsin at Milwaukee, where he holds the rank of assistant professor. Dick recently received a S500 Uhrig Award for teaching. He is a member of a team which introduced a new course, "Physics in Everyday Life" at the 
U. of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. 
JAMES D. ROZICS '64 (theoretical physics), wife Betty, and four children, James, Dam'el, Robert and Mary, live at 8724 Avondale Rd., Baltimore, Md. 21234. Jim came to ND from Cam'sius (College where he received his B.S. degree in 1959. After completing work for his Ph.D. degree in 1964. he joined the faculty of the Depart­ment of Physics at Loyola College (Balti­more) with the rank of assistant professor of physics. He spent the 1966 summer with the Westinghouse Electric Corp., Underseas Division, Baltimore. Md., with a rating of senior engineer, and the 1967 summer at the Edgewood Arsenal, Edge­wood, Md., with the rank of physicist, Jim currently holds the rank of associate pro­fessor of physics at Loyola. Our Alumni Office has informed me that Jim just recently received the first annual Distin­guished Teacher Award at Loyola College. The award included a citation, and a check for $1,000. 
That's all for this time. 
Robert L. Anthony Department of Physics Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
ATLANT.4 
The ND Club of Atlanta held the usual 
monthly luncheons at the Planter's Exchange 
Restaurant in Underground Atlanta on 
May 12, and June 16. FRANK COTTER 
'65 has done a fine job in making these 
luncheons very enjoyable. On May 16, the annual Communion 
breakfast was held at the Marist School. 
Families of the following alumni attended: 
JOE CAMPBELL '54, BILL ROCHE 
'53, GEORGE HOLLOWAY '63, TOM 
B'YRNE '49, TOM GUNNING '57, JERRY 
KIEFER '54, BOB HUETZ '58, DENNIS 
MACKIN '66. JIM EICHELBERGER 
'63, BILL RICH '64, JOHN EDWARDS 
'43, and PAUL LOMBARDI '60. Many 
thanks to JERRY KIEFER '54 for his 
work on this activity. On May 28, the alumni turned out in 
force to watch the Cotton Bowl 
Highlights and other films. BOB MUL­
SHINE '63 and Mackin put on a very 
enjoyable evening. Our next event will be our annual 
summer picnic on Aug. 14. WaUam M. Rich '64 
BOSTON 

The seventh annual golf outing was held at the Wollaston Golf Club, Quincy on Jime 15. We had 49 golfers sign up—26 members and 23 guests. CHARLIE BURKE had a low gross of 78, along with a low net of 69 by JOE KINNEALLY followed by FRANK CONSOLATI, BILL BURKE, and SAM MERRA. The high score of the day was a fine 125 which was right up there with the winners. The Golf Outing started its first season with eight participants, and the club feels that the sport has continued to grow, therefore more members are enjoying the event So, next year let's have a greater turnout. DON COTE '52 did a fine job of organizing the event. 
JACK KARLE '56 chairman of the schol­arship committee, has awarded two more candidates their S600-a-year scholarships. Our club is very proud of this committee and the fine work that they are doing, as they spent the period of time from Febru­apf until now in interviewing over 25 can­didates and finally arriving with the two most deser\ing students. The ND Club of Boston has awarded over S6,500 in scholar-scholarship committee has to come up with imaginative contest ideas to raise funds, and without a doubt has done an exceUent job. The winner will receive a four-day trip to Bermuda, second prize will be $100. Third, fourth and fifth—sets of the Bruin tickets. 
A football trip is pl.inned to Miami for the ND-Miami game October 8-11, four days and three nights, S159 per person includes plane fare, tickets, transportation to and from game, but not meals. Contact Jack Lamere, 540 Granite St. Braintree, Mass. 02184. We have a count of 14 people as of Jime 14. 
The club had 30 percent of the people on the mailing list pay their dues for 1970­'71 which is an all-time high for the dub. There are 678 on our mailing list To help us increase that percentage a club directory is being prepared by GEORGE WILLIAMS '62 and DICK WALWOOD '60 which will help us in organizing various activities. Also the club is preparing a membership drive in sections of the club's local area which will get more people involved with the different programs. 
Have a HAPPY Summer. 
David A. Fay '60 
CALU.MET 

On Feb. 15, the club held a family corporate 
NEW ORLEANS—Two guests from the University took part in the UND Night programof the New Orleans Club. Left to right are: Harry J. Clark III '63, treasurer; Lester J. Boudreaux Jr. '62, vice president; Rev. James L. Shilts CSC '49, assistant vice president for student affairs at ND; Thomas J. Sullivan '66, regional development director for ND; F. Joseph Drolla Jr. '63, president, and Leon J. Reymond Jr. '64, secretary. 
FORT WAYNE—Norbert J. Schenkel '34, at left, holds the certificate for the Fort WayneND Club's "Man of the Year"' award which he received from Steve Steckbeck '54, center, last year's recipient, and Phil Clemens '51, at right, club president. 
Communion in the Walnut Room of St. 

Margaret's Hospital. A champagne brunch 
followed. Rev. Anthony Molnar was in­
stalled as Club chaplain. 
The club's roster of alumni and friends 

has been completed and distributed to each 
of its members. A copy may be obtained 

by writing to our P. O. Box 875 Hammond, 
Ind. 

Club officers for 1971 are: MATT A. KERGER '52, presidenU TOM E. FEALY '57, first vice president; DAN A. MEDREA "66, second vice president; WARREN N. HIGGINS '52, secretary; JIM C. ETLING '52, treasurer. 
UND Night was held May 17 at Mama Puntillo's in Highland where we honored as ND "Man of the Year" five area priests who are now on the faculty at ND. These include Rev. RALPH F. DUNN CSC, and Rev. JEROME M. BOYLE CSC, of Gary; Rev. THOMAS J. McDONAGH CSC, Rev. ROBERT J. AUSTGEN CSC, of Hammond; and Rev. PATRICK H. 
MALONEY CSC of Crown Point The 
topic of the program was "Notre Dame, 
How Catholic Is It?" Recipients of the 
Club's loan to students were Chuck Stinch­
field and Jim Raelson of Valparaiso. 
Tom Fealy '57 
CENTRAL C.4LIFORNL\ 
The ND Club of Central California held a smoker on May 26. The occasion was a visit from JIM KINNANE, the regional development director who came from Los Angels, talked about football prospects for next year, and showed us two excellent films, the Football Highlights for 1970, and the report on ND which appeared on NBC's "Sixty Minutes." Both were excellent For those clubs which haven't seen the "Sixty Minutes" report—do so! 
Dave Hudson, '61 
CINCINTVATI 
The club held its aimual election on June 23 at the Burger Brewery Tap Room. New ofiicers are: HAL SUNDERMAN '63, president; THOMAS EAGEN '66, vice president; TIMOTHY SCHILLING '69, secretary, and ROBERT HOFACRE'56, treasurer. 
The 1970 football highlights and high­lights of the Cotton Bowl Game were shown at the meeting. BRIAN BOULAC, offensive line coach for the Fighting Irish, was the speaker. Brian reported on spring football and on what is upcoming in 1971. 
The 1971 Man of the Year Award was presented to JIM MENSE '56. This is an award richly deserved by Jim. 
The annual golf outing was held in July at the Hyde Park Golf and Country Qub. 
PAUL F. KELLEY '54 is in charge of the annual "Meet the Freshmen" picnic to be held in mid-August TOM HOCK '59 and BILL GRAFE '45 are assisting Paul. 
Tom Eagen '66 
CLEVELAND 
On June 15, the ND Alumni Club of 
Cleveland met at the Statler Hilton Hotel, 
Cleveland, to elect new officers. The 
following were elected: 
President, FRED FRIEND '50; vice 
president, NICHOLAS DeVITO '63; 
treasurer, KENNETH LIPINSKI '65 and 
secretary, BILL MURPHY '62. 
At this meeU"ng the outgoing president, 
PAT CANNON, outlined many of the 
activities that took place during the year 
(including the St Patrick's Day Parade 
which, of course, he still was marching to 
as he stood there and addressed the 
members). Pat also acknowledged the fact 
that he attended the ND Alumni Senate 
meetings at ND, and he informed the Club 
of the new improvements and changes at 
the University. 
A motion was passed to congratulate Cannon for his illustrious and imaginative leadership this year. Pat was unique this year in that he brought the Governor of the State of Ohio to our Universal ND Night banquet, and it certainly was a high point of the year. 
A lengthy discussion pursuant to the University's new changes was led by Dr. 
C. J. CALDWELL, Pat Canny and JOHN BUTLER from the old guard of the Alumni Association. 
MIKE O'NEIL was present with a great big smile on his face because he is the new father of a baby girl, and we want to congratulate Mike and his wife. Also we would like to congratulate our new secretary. Bill Murphy, who was just recently married. 
President Friend has appointed a new permanent secretary, DENNIS BUTLER '62, who will handle any Alumni corre­spondence out of his office at 75 Public Square, Cleveland, Ohio. 
The club started off its new year of activities with a golf party on July 9, at Tanglewood Country Club. JOHN L. HUMMER '57, and BOB SCHRINER '51, are the co-chairmen. Movies of the 1970 Cotton Bowl, as well as a speaker from the ND coaching staff will be the highlights of the evening. 
The annual summer picnic will be held at Gilmore Academy; time and place to be designated. 
Dennis F. Butler '62 
COLUMBUS 
On May 7, the club celebrated ND m'ght We were very fortunate to have Ara Parseghian as our speaker this year. While he felt somewhat handicapped with the topic "Notre Dame—How Catholic Is It? he did a wonderful job informing and entertaining us on life at ND with emphasis on football, of course. 
Many thanks to JOE RYAN '58, ERNIE KLETZLY '57, and JOHN DODD '56 for a great job organizing one of the best club affairs yet. 
New officers installed on UND night were ERNIE KLETZLY '57, president; TOM GERLACHER '64, vice president; JACK BUTTLER '67, treasurer, and BOB O'SHAUGHNESSY '66, secretary. 
The next event is to be the annual picnic. 
Bob O'Shaughnessy '66 
DALLAS 
UND Night was held April 26 at the City Club at One Main Place. Over 100 alumni, wives and friends were present for cocktails and a fine dinner. The presence of LARRY 
DINARDO did much to add to the festive occasion and to bring back pleasant memories of the last Cotton Bowl game. 
Rev. LAWRENCE FERGUSON '40, an Episcopal priest, was honored at the dinner as the "Notre Dame Man of the 
Year." The new officers of the club for the 
coming year were also introduced. They 
are LAWRENCE O. BEDFORD '57, presi­
dent, JOSEPH A. BRASSARD '53, vice 
president; ROBERT B. BROWN '49, vice 
president; JEROME J. BRADLEY '64 and 
JOHN M. BRADLEY '64 secretary, and 
CHARLES MARTIN '59, treasurer. Sandy Lake Park was the scene of the 
annual picnic on June 26. TOM JAEB '56 
and his crew did an excellent job of 
providing plenty to eat and drink. Many 
youngsters came away with ribbons for their 
fine performances in the numerous games 
and races. At last report the alumni horse­
shoe tournament was still going strong and 
a winning team had not yet been declared. Houston's loss was Dallas' gain when 
JOE ECHELLE '62 recently moved here to 
take up the job of general manager of the 
Dallas Tornado Soccer Club. Joe was 
Houston's "Notre Dame Man of the Year" 
for 1970 and we extend to him a warm 
welcome. Jerome J. Bradley '64 
DECATUR JOHN J. SHIEL chaired the ND ouUng that 
included the first to the nineteenth hole, 
dinner thereafter, and a viewing of "Shake 
Up the Echoes." ALLAN F. LANDOLT 
'50, recently appointed director of aviation 
in Gov. Ogilvie's cabinet, charged into the 
fray somewhat late. Ticket application 
blank exchanges were taking place before, 
during, and after the golf awards that 
involved no disappointments. NICK 
NEIERS '58, '6IL won the most exercise 
trophy. Councilman JOHN DUNN '58, 
'61L carried the widest vote. Once again, 
PAT NOLAN '63, president, managed the 
mundane details. 
Steve Graliker '42 
DENVER 
The Denver ND Club's new officers, elected 
on April 6, are: President, LARRY 
GRIFFIN '63; vice president. GREG 
ROGERS '60; secretary, RICHARD DAMM '64 and treasurer, MIKE SMITH '64. 
Directors are: VINCE DUNCAN, DON KLEE, CARL EIBERGER, JIM SHEEHAN 
and JIM HILGER. 
Universal ND Night was held May 15 at the Heidelberg Inn. The "Man of the Year" 
was JIM SHEEHAN '50. Scholarship 
winners were James Chauncey, Wheat Ridge 
High; Michael Strickroth, Mullen High 
and John Dengler, Mullen High. Rev. W. 
A. TOOHEY CSC, the speaker, was very 
well received. Nearly 30 new freshmen have been 
accepted from this area for ND this fall, 
a record. 
A summer swim party and picnic are planned and plans are under way for foot­ball gatherins when ND is on TV. 
The alumni meet for lunch at the Denver Athletic Club on the first Wednesday of 
every month. Any traveling alums are 
welcome. 
With the merger now in progress, we are working with the Denver St. Mary's Club. 
They participated in UND Night. 
Rich Damm '64 
DETROIT 
Detroit area members of the Class of '75 and their parents were welcomed into the ND Family on June 21, at the Qub's freshman orientation night. Twenty-five of the 36 incoming freshmen were in attendance to receive a firsthand report of the University by Dan Saracino, from the Admissions Office and Rick Urda, a ND senior. 
DENVER—Scholarship winners were among those who attended VND Night ceremonies in Denver. I^ft to right are: James Hilger '56, chairman of the scholarship committee; James Chauncey, football grant-in-aid winner (and Notre Dame scholar) from Wheat RidgeHigh School; Michael Strickroth, Denver Club scholarship winner from Mullen HighSchool; Brother Bernard Kinneavy FSC, headmaster of Mullen, and John Dengler, also a Denver Club scholarship winner from Mullen. 
The program, chaired by TERRY KEATING '60, featured a showing of the NBC special, "First Tuesday." Judging from the hour and a half question-answer period, the Detroit area freshmen will arrive in South Bend this September with most of their questions about University life already answered. 
Five months of painstaking effort has paid off handsomely for the Detroit Club members with the introduction of our new ALUMNUS directory. Club President, EDWARD BRACKEN '35, praised the roster co-chairmen JIM KNAUS '68, GERRY TEAGAN '69, and Mrs. Pat McKeever (SMC '61), for their outstand­ing job in producing the most complete roster in Club history. 
Gary W. Dillon '65 
ERIE 

Most of our alumni have forsaken the hot humid city for the sandy shores of our Lake Erie. LEO BRUGGER '61 and the RICH and JOHN McCORMlCK '53 families are absorbing the rays at Avonia Beach; the JOSEPH C. '36 and ROBERT BARBERS '40 are at their "Barberosa"—Penn York Resort. Lake Erie is definitely not dead. 
The younger generation is infiltrating the Erie Club. JACK QUINN '66, BILL CROTTY '68. DAVE HALLER '67 and others are a few of our new alumni who plan to inspire our group to greater heights. 
"nU Fall — 
Joseph C. Barber '36 
FLORIDA WEST CO.VST 

The Florida West Coast Club hosted a 
UND Night on May 18 at the SUindby 
Room of the Tampa Airport Motel. The 
guest speaker. Assistant Coach Tom Pagna, 
gave an exciting and provocative talk 

on "How Catholic Is Notre Dame?" Over 
70 alumni, wives and guests approved 
heartily with a standing ovation. We 

certainly felt the coach conveyed the spirit 
of the University in 1971. Prior to Coach Pagna's talk, outgoing 
President GENE BIITTNER announced the 
following officers for 1971-72: President, 
FRANK CALLAHAN, Tampa; vice 

president, BOB SHANNON, SL Petersburg; 
treasurer, GEORGE GOIDA. Tampa, and secretary, JIM CARROLL, Tampa. 
Serving for two years on the board of directors will be: Biittner, SL Petersburg; 
PAUL NOWAK, SL Petersburg; MARK 
MOONEY, Tampa: CHARLIE TALLEY, Tampa, and GUY PARANICH, Clearwater. 
The summer picnic is to be held in late August and the Tampa-SL Petersburg 
excursion to the Miami football game is planned in early October. 
Several members of the Class of 75 were introduced along with their parents. 
R. F. Shannon '58 
GREATER MI.VMI 

The ND Club of Greater Miami sponsored 
its annual UND Night Cocktail Party 
on May 22. We were very fortunate to 

have Coach Tom Pagna speak at this affair. 
Coach Pagna related his observations of, 
and insights into, the University as it 
exists in 1971. His speech left all in 
attendance with a greater feeling and appreciation for the University. 

Well over 125 people were present at the affair. The next affair was scheduled by the club 
for July 6 with Don Schula, coach of the 
Miami Dolphins, speaking and showing 

film highlights of the 1970 Dolphin season. 
NEW JERSEY—Joseph A. Abbott '30, center, was honored as the "Man of the Year" bythe ND Chib of New Jersey at its annual dinner and outing, June 17, at the Braidburn Country Club. Left to right are: Frank Tripucka '49, club president; Angelo Bertelli '44, dinner chairman; Abbott; Sal Bontemo '32, Braidburn owner, and Joe Yonto, assistant football coach at ND. 
OcL 9 will be the biggest day of the year for the club. The Fighting Irish will take on the Miami Hurricanes in the Orange Bowl that evening. The club has arranged for a cocktail party to be held at the Deauville Hotel on OcL 8. We have also arranged to have 250 rooms reserved for anyone wishing to make the Deauville the headquarters for this fine football weekend. The club will also have 1,500 tickets for the game and arrangements are being made to put together a package of the cocktail party, reservations, transportation and the game. Further details will follow for the subsequent issue. 
Charies P. Sacher '61 
GREEN B.VY-FO.X VALLEY 

Seventy-four golfers participated in the club's 1971 et al. Open held June 14 at Oneida Golf and Riding Club. BERNARD GIGOT shot a 79 to take top honors while JOHN GALLAGHER received a prize for entering four foursomes in the tour­namenL Dr. MIKE CROSS was chairman of the evenL 
Future club events include a family picnic scheduled for SepL 12, and a football weekend trip to ND for the Northwestern game SepL 17-18-19. 
Graham A. "Spike" Werner '61 
HANOVE R TOWTS'SHIP 

I am taking this opportunity to announce the forming of the Hanover Township ND Club. The officers are: Joseph F. Schintz, president; Dan Stadulis, vice president; Walter Boyson Sr., recording secretary; Walter Boyson Jr., financial secretary-treas­urer; JACK JOSEPH '67, sergeant at arms; John Monahan, chaplain, and Edmund 
J. Wasley, assistant chaplain. 

At our installation of officers, MICHAEL (Mickey) GORHAM '60 and presently foot­ball coach at Meyer High School in Wilkes-Barre was guest of honor. Mickey was very impressed with the enthusiasm and spirit of our members. 
A few months ago our members were the guests of the ND Alumni Association of Wilkes-Barre at its meeting and film highlights of the 1970 season were shown. 
At our meeting in June we had the film highlights of the Texas-ND Cotton Bowl game of '71. All the members and guests enjoyed seeing the pregame hi^lights and the Cotton Bowl game. This year our club will travel to Pittsburgh on Nov. 6 to see ND play Pittsburgh. 
Prior to our Pittsburgh trip we will have a Communion breakfast for our members and guests at SL Casimir's Church here in Hanover Township. We hope to have a graduate as representative 

of ND as our guest speaker. 
Joe Schintz (USAF Retired) 
INDIANAPOLIS 
A large turnout of alumni and friends marked the annual ND stag outing at TOM MOYNAHAN's city villa. Several were seen, one person in his skivvies, in the pool while a great majority seemed to stay near the hamburger and beer dispensers and the card games. Conversations ranged from the 1946 ND-Army (0-0) game between BOB McNAMARA and our president-elect Dr. Joe Gormley to insur­ance between TOM FLETCHER and TOM O'BRIEN. TOM HUGHES and MARIO SANTAROSSA discussed county politics while ED FILLENWORTH and TED DANIELS planned to attend the ND golf outing. More new faces, including PAT FISHER'S son MIKE and JACK ELDER's son JOHN, were seen this year than ever before. Let's hope this continues. PAT QUINN and our new president F. QUINN were in charge of this event and are to be congratulated. Father JOE WADE, our club chaplain, traveled from Terre Haute to attend. 
The golf outing was set for July 22 at Indianapolis Country Club with guests Wally Moore, ND line coach, and Dick Di Biaso. assistant ND basketball coach. LEO BARNHORST and F. Quinn had charge of reservations. 
Don't forget to mail your club dues (SIO) to 5715 N. Pennsylvania Ave., Indianapolis. One final note to all those alumni in the area who perhaps have not participated in the club in a long time or have just recently graduated, write to the above address if you would like to get on the club's mailing lisL 
Jack V. Moriarty '63 
JERSEY SHORE 
Compiling of a printed roster, making 
arrangements for the freshman sendoff in 
late August, and planning for the fall 
Communion Breakfast and a possible golf 
outing are the club's activities currently in progress. 
An informal dinner meeting on June 1 was used by recently installed President 
CHARLIE KELLER '54 to report back to 
the club on the Alumni Senate meetings. 
The other new officers are Vice President 
TONY BRUNO '60, Secretary ROGER 
FITZSIMMONS '58, and Treasurer JOHN 
BOGAN '55. Elected for three-year terms 
as directors are JIM MURRAY '43 
and OLIVER MARCELLI '68. 
Last year's Man of the Year award 
recipient DICK CORDASCO 'SO is the 
chairman of the freshman sendoff again and 
will continue to head the alumni 
schools committee. Alumni interested in the club but not 
currently on the mailing list are encouraged 
to contact the club at its permanent 
mailing address—P.O. Box 286, Asbury 
Park, N.J. 07712. 
Chariie Keller '38 
KENTUCKY 
Club members participated in the annual Corpus Christ! procession at Churchill Downs on June 13. WILLIAM A. REISERT JR. was chairman of the event The annual outing is scheduled for Aug. 3, with LEO REHERMAN once again our chairman. Assistant Football Coach Tom Pagna and TOM SULLIVAN '66 will be here from the University and BILL McGOWAN '57, our regional representative on the ND Alumni Board of Directors. Challenging these three ND men will be the University of Louisville's Lee Corso. This golf meet will be held at Midland Trail Golf Club, and those of us remembering last year's wild affair can hardly wait for this year's bigger and better version. Set this date—Aug. 3—aside right now. 
We will again have a booth at the St. Joseph's Orphans' Picnic on Aug. 14. This will be a joint venture with the student Ky. Club of ND. Our chairman will be JOHN BRENZEL and student club president Tim Lawson. Anyone wishing to help this year please call one of these, men or any of the officers. 
On Wednesday, Oct. 6, the club will hold a' general business -meeting. The purpose of this meeting will be to discuss the first six months of this year and what we are going to do the next six months. At this meeting there will be a special treat for football fans. Old-time highlight films of ND's illustrious past will be shown conu'nuously at this meeting. This is also a time for all alumni to speak up concerning what they expect of the club. TOM HELRINGER will be our Dec. 8 Mass-banquet chairman, and at this banquet we will present a Woman of the Year award—JOE DONALDSON will be chairman of the selection committee. 
The basketball game—ND vs. Ky.— will be Dec. 29, and as of this date, we will handle tickets as in the past. GERRY BOLAND attended the last Senate meeting at ND and while there Gerry was to talk with DON BOUFFARD to obtain a confirmation on tickets. Without our handling of the ticket sales the club would lose one of only two money-makers we have, and this means we could no longer afford to send needy men to the University on scholarships. We all know the Scholarship Fund is the most important function of the club, so you can bet your officers will do all they can to assure that ticket sales remain with the club. This means also that we can insure distribution of tickets to alumni members in Kentucky and not outsiders. 
On Tuesday, Jan. 18, there will again be a general business meeting. More on this later. 
Mike Casper *64 
LOS •A.NGELES 
If you have attended some of those memorable ND-USC weekend rallies at Los Angeles' Biltmore Bowl for more than 20 years, you owe your moments of enjoyment principally to our Man of the Year, Judge JOHN W. CARBERRY '35 who received his award during our UND Night festiviUes arranged by CHRIS FOLEY '62. Whenever the subject of entertain­ment for the rally was discussed, the judge 
always seemed to be waiting off-stage 
with a Pat O'Brien or some McGuire 
Sisters ready to perform. The judge must 
have had the original blarney stone and 
the prayers of SL Patrick himself to keep 
a continuous stream of headliners 
rallying the ND caiKe. 
Judge Carberry joins the illustrious company of BEN SALVATY Sr. '32, LEO 
TURGEON MD'42, BOB KELLY, 
EUGENE CALHOUN '33, LEO WARD 
'20, and the late MORT GOODMAN. AH 
gave great service to ND for many years 
prior to receiving the LA Club's 
highest award. Ben Salvaty was president 
of the San Gabriel Club before the 
unification of the local area clubs. Dr. 
Turgeon has been a national director. 
Locally he has been unsurpassed for his 
dedicated football scouting activities. Robert 
Kelly, Leo Ward and Eugene Calhoun 
are past presidents of the LA Club. 
Calhoun was club secretary for over 20 
years; a tough record to beat If "Man of the Year" is due recognition 
for service rendered, the LA Club has a 
long list of "Young Turks" who have 
already begun to establish records of 
enviable achievement. Their deeds will be 
chronicled in future notes. Some are 
officers and club directors. Others are 
nationally known in their right. For 
example, former Irish basketball star TOM 
HAWKINS '59, MC for the UND Night, 
is known for his NBC sports coverage. 
JACK GOURMAN Ph.D.'49, is naUonally 
known for his rating of educational 
institutions. According to Dr. Gourman's 
standards, ND is still one of the top 10 
universities in the nation. These ratings 
deserve separate treatment because 
the criteria used permit more objective 
evaluation of educational institutions. EDWARD (Moose) KRAUSE, ND 
Athletic Director, was the guest speaker who 
waxed poetical at times during his 
presentation of what is happening both 
academically and athletically on the campus. 
To paraphrase "Moose," "Academic 
excellence and athletic excellence are 
Notre Dame objectives. We don't think 
they are mutually exclusive." He noted that 
while other college and university 
presidents were resigning, Fr. Hesburgh 
was receiving the very best student support. 
Clearly, Fr. Hesburgh has what it takes, 
strength and understanding. He's a 
Notre Dame man! 
Hosea M. Alexander Sr. '62 
MUSKEGON 
This is another tale of TYLER (STAN) and his famous beer (O thou Michelob) pilfered through a six-pack of pickets (his men were on strike), passed and poured for us through an ice-cold vat at the Muskegon Club's annual golf outing at Pontaluna Country Club. 
The July 1 occasion was a fund- and fun-raising event to start off fiscal year '71-'72 and banker BILL TARDANI car­ried home (to the bank) a bag of booty. We won't know the net gross until this comptroller of the currency has applied his searching and analytical mind to all the facts and factors. But we did entertain around 200 (this was the largest ever) at what Joe Eyier of the Muskegon Chronicle describes as the outstanding social-athletic event of the summer season. 
Low gross on the golf course went to our and ND's golf captain, Mike La France. 
DENNY DELANEY, man about town and energetic impresario of Catholic Cen­tral, accounted for a goodly gathering of coaches. Christian Brothers and other rep­resentatives from that little ND of Mus­kegon. Also FRANK OEHLHOFFEN should be cited for his coming out of retirement and sparking an offensive that netted many new and influential faces at our stag. CHUCK SCHULER hosted many 
MUSKEGON—Paul Shoults, defensive backfteld coach at ND, gets plenty of advice on putting from, left to right, Tom Pagna, offensive backfteld coach; Jim Morse, former Irish captain; Nick Eddy, former ND Ail-American and now Detroit Lions star, and Stan Tyler,Mtiskegon ND Clttb president, at the club's annual golf stag at the Pontaluna Country Club. 
addition to his position at the University, 
Bob has this year been elected as the 
president of the NCAA Business Managers 
Association. The award was presented to 
Bob at the Rock River Valley UND 
Night, July 15, at the Dixon (III.) 
Country Club. 
Henry S. Dixon '56 
ROME 
The Roman silence in the past two issues is partly explainable by the fact that we are in the process of moving our Alumni Hospitality Center. We will, in turn, be given hospitality by Gus Rossi (Rome's No. 1 ND "Catacomb" alumnus) in his new and enlarged Scoglio Di Frisio Restaurant which will move to 13 Via Parigi, rear of Grand Hotel. Target time for the actual move will be the late fall. We will have a mezzanine lounge with direct access to Gus's bar and dining faciKties. For the nonce, you will find us hosting evenings at the Scoglio Di Frisio Restaurant at its present address, 256 Via Merulana, near Basilica Santa Maria Maggiore, Tel. 734.619. The "Scoglio" has been an ND-SMC Roman dining rendezvous for nigh onto a quarter of a Roman century. Come! 
Vince McAIoon '34 
ST. JOSEPH VAIXEY 
A joint meeting of the St. Mary's Alumnae 
Club and the ND Alumni Club was held 
on June 22 at the University Club. 
The purpose was to explore the area of 
merger between the two clubs. Attending 
were JIM COONEY and MIKE JORDAN 
of the Alumni Office. The St. Mary's 
Club was represented by President 
Martha Michaud and Diana Beytagh. 
ND Club representatives included President 
DAN O'BRIEN, ROD JOHNSON, NORM 
COOK, and BILL KILLILEA. A social 
meeting of the entire membership of the 
two clubs will follow in the fall. The 1971 Club Scholarship winners are 
William Box of LaSalle Hi ^ School and 
Craig Anderson of North Liberty High 
School. Both have impressive credentials and predict great futures at the University. 
Our next club function is the annual "Rod Johnson Open" golf outing. The date, 
time, and place will be announced. 
Brian Regan '61 
SAINT LOUIS 
On the night of June 16, the ND Forum was presented at Fontbonne College's Ryan Hall. PAUL GUND '63, club presi­dent, gave the opening address. Jim Frick was the guest speaker. He was preceded by the "First Tuesday" program of last December. Frick answered the many questions from the floor concerning student life today on the campus. 
Gund was assisted in the program by DICK ASH '54 and JERRY MIGUEL '59. 
DONALD HEMMER '66 is scheduling the ND picnic for late July or first week in August. 
Dick Ash also announces the new location of the ND Club at the office of Connor Ash & Connor, 232 S. Meramec. The telephone number is 727-6620. 
Phil S. Tomber '64 
SAN DIEGO 
ND Alumni Senators TIM HINCHEY '61 
and JOHN CIHAK '60 provided an 
in-depth report of recent campus develop­
ments at the club's June business meeting. 
The problems of coeducation was one 
of several topics, including the possibility 
of merging ND and SMC alumni clubs 
and the potential summer use of the 
campus by alumni families. Their report 
concluded with a recap of the traditional 
spring football game. 
Club president DOUG GIMBER '61 has scheduled a full slate of activities for 
the year whose 12 events include a summer 
beach party, several get-togethers to 
view ND football on television, and our 
legendary July dinner dance. 
Members are looking forward to welcom­
ing KEVIN HARDY who will be 
playing for the San Diego Chargers this fall. 
Membership Secretapf LEO EIKMEYER 
'49 invites all new arrivals to the San 
Diego area to contact him at 286-1725. 
Bill Walsh '62 
TULSA 
The Tulsa Club has had two noteworthy 
events in the recent months. On March 
12, "An Irish Shindig" was held at Bishop 
Kelly High School and attracted about 
500 guests. Highlights of the evening 
were, in addition to good food and much 
drink, films of 1970 football highlights 
and tlie Cotton Bowl film, both in color. 
Many of the clergy in Tulsa were in 
attendance and helped give the club its 
biggest turnout in 15 years. An auto­
graphed football and numerous door prizes 
helped insure the success of the party. Then on June 13, the annual champagne 
brunch was held at Cedar Ridge Country 
Club. The alumni and wives welcomed the 
new students and club scholarship winners 
and their parents. The consensus was 
that it was the best brunch yet especially 
because of all the new faces. About 80 
were present and we are looking forward 
to next year's afi'air. 
George K. Miller '58 
WASHINGTON. D.C. 
The ND Club of Washington, D.C, is 
enjoying recent recogniU'on given as the 
WASHINGTON, D.C—An honored guest at the Universal ND night of the Washing­ton Club of ND was Vance Hartke (left),
U.S. senator from Indiana. Peter J. Cannon '56, center, is the chib's president, and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, at right, ND President was the speaker. 
outstanding alumni club (type A) within 
the United States for the past year. This is 
representative of the fine support of all 
of its members, but in particular the 
leadership provided by last year's officers 
and the president, PETER J. CANNON '56. 
In order to sustain last year's momentum, 
this year's officers, led by President 
JOE CLANCY '53, will be hoping to 
innovate new programs of interest to the 
members, and continue those activities 
that have been so successful in the past. 
Joe will be aided by "NORDY" HOFF­
MAN, reelected chairman of the board 
of governors. During the summer months, it is hoped 
that we will receive large attendance at 
the annual golf outing and a proposed 
ND Party. The latter will be an effort to 
involve more of the Administration 
and Congressional personnel in the Wash­
ington area who have ND relationships, 
but are not permanent residents. A major 
fall activity will be an air charter to 
South Bend for the Northwestern game. Future plans also call for considering 
the incorporation of the SL Maiy's Alumnae 
into the club activities, recognizing the 
changes that are occurring at the University. 
The club's very successful community 
acU'on program has a new chairman, 
BOB BROWN '56, who plans functions in 
conjunction with an inner-city playground 
and at Walter Reed Hospital. The Club was well represented at this 
year's reunion with a I5-man contingent 
flying out under a special airline group 
rate including PETE CANNON, JOHN 
MURRAY, TONY CASTOLINA, 
CONNIE TRIMBOR. all from the Class 
of 56, BERNIE LIENHARDT '41, JOHN 
MANLEY '31. CARL EIFFERT '51, 
BEN FISHBURN '46, TIM O'RILEY '61, 
and JOE LIBBY '61. Others attending 
the reunion included HARRY DUTKO, 
TOM CAMPBELL, JOE SCHWARTZ, 
PAT HOGAN and MARTY RONAN '61. From the recent notifications by the 
Alumni Office of graduates in the area, we 
expect that the club ranks will be growing 
rapidly. A number of our alumni are 
continuing to find their way to the new 
community of Reston. Va., the residence of 
Past President Cannon and your present 
secretary. Within this ND "ghetto," 
over a dozen ND families presently live, 
adding considerably to the population 
of this new town. "The most recent expansion 
has been the recent birth of a daughter 
to JOHN and Marie ROSSI '59. The 
Reston group plans a picnic this summer, 
hoping to attract more Notre Damers 
to the area. 
For all new residents of the Washington area, permanent or temporary, we encourage your membership in our club and suggest that you call President Clancy at 293-4336. 
Patrick F. Kane '60 
WESTERN NEW YORK 
Among activities planned are the annual 
retreat and Communion breakfast, a 
picnic and Softball game with the under­
graduates, an excursion to ND for a 
football game, a Monte Carlo night and a 
night at the NBA featuring AUSTIN CARR 
and the Cleveland Cavs along with our 
own Bufi^alo Braves. In addition, if 
tickets are available, a night with our 
NHL Sabres is planned. 
The club will attempt to run this ambitious schedule on at least a break­even basis and the cooperation and par-u'cipation of every ND man in the area is needed. 
The Scholarship Committee met June 28 as the guests of JOHN LaDUCA and the Buffalo Savings Bank. 
James P. Julian '69 
::liiiiS21:iSSMS v^ jga'w^-^a , -T. ^ «^^ 
" r 
t-' 

from his large law firm and it was a goodly 
gathering in all. 

We were proud to show off the fine 
representatives you sent us in all the gen­
tlemen that attended: Gene O'Neil, Don 
Bouffard, Wally Moore, Denny Murphy, 
Paul Shoults, Tom Pagna, Mike Stock, Ed 
Warren, Bill Hickey and Dr. Nick Johns. 
They made a splendid showing both on the 
golf course and in the socializing and 
speeches after. We have been enriched both 
materially (our scholarship fund) and cul­
turally by their having been in our midst. 
Leo L. Linck '43 
NEW ORLEANS 

After several scheduling problems, the New 
Orleans Club finally held its UND Night 
on May 26 in the Petroleum Club. 
Over 100 alumni and guests were in 
attendance. Our honored guest. Father 
JAMES SHILTS CSC, deUvered a thought-
provoking talk. He used his assigned 
topic, "Notre Dame: How Catholic Is It?" 
to discuss the direction of the University 
and its student body in the changing 
Church and woiid. The result was a greater 
imderstanding, if not full agreement Walter Babst, chairman of the Alumni 
Schools Committee, reported that the 
New Orleans area had 33 applicants for 
the Freshman Class of 1971, of which 
18 have been accepted. He also introduced 
the prospective new students and their 
parents, who were guests of the club 
for the evening. 

UND Night marked the beginning of a 
new club year. Among the activities 
plaimed for the coming year are the 
freshman sendofi! in late August; the 
LSU-ND football weekend on Nov. 19-21, 
and the seafood supper in late Feljruary. 
The ND-LSU football weekend will 
include the always successful pep rally 
cocktail party on Friday night at 6:30 at 
the Royal Sonesta Hotel in the heart 
of the French Quarter. Entertaining at this 
event will be the popular Olympia brass 
band specializing in the old-style New 
Orleans jazz music. On Saturday, buses 
will be available for the 80-mile trip to Tiger 
Stadium in Baton Rouge for the game. 
Additional events for Sunday may be 
scheduled. The club is looking forward 
to entertaining the many out-of-town 
ND supporters expected for the game. 
Leon J. Reymond Jr. '64 
NORTH FLORIDA 

The ND Club of North Florida held its summer meeting July 13 at the Anheuser-Busch executive conference room in Jacksonville. 
Items discussed were the annual family picnic, the annual stag golf outing, the formation of an alumni schools committee, and the feasibility of running a fund-raising raffle of a weekend at the ND-Miami game in Miami. 
Vice-President TIM LYNCH '61 relayed the information he had obtained while attending the joint meeting of the Alumni Board of Directors and the Alumni Senate in May. The writer also passed on the impressions and information received while attending his ten-year reunion in June. I would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation to JIM COONEY and his staff for a superbly organized and well-administered Reunion '71 program. 
The North Florida Club would also like to take this opportunity to thank Coach Tom Pagna and TOM SULLIVAN for their most enlightening and eloquent discourse on today's ND at our Universal ND Night Dinner held May 20. 
C. Denis O'Shaughnessy '61 

RHODE ISLAND-SE. MASSACHUSETTS—Two "Men of the Year" were honored by the Rhode Island and Southeast Massachusetts ND Club. Seated, left to right are: Rev. Francis D. Nealy OP and Rev. Joseph Lennon, the recipients. Standing are James V. Conlon, club president, and Rev. Thomas E. Blantz CSC, vice president for student affairs at ND and 
speaker for the program. 

PHiLADELPHLV The Philadelphia Club held its annual golf 
outing May 14 at the Bala Golf Club 

on the Main Line. An awards dinner 
followed with our guest speaker being 
Wayne Hardin, head football coach at 

Temple, and former head coach at the 
U.S. Naval Academy. Coach Hardin talked 
about the prestige ND carries throughout 
the country. We thank MATT McCLOS-
KEY '63, chairman of the event, for a 
job well done. TOM SAALLOW '63, our president, has 
been working very hard to make this a 
great year for the club. Coming events 
include a "Welcome to Notre Dame Day" 
for incoming freshmen from the Delaware 
Valley, a "Night at the Races," a trip 

to Miami for the Miami-ND game, and a 
postgame rally following the ND-LaSalle 
basketball game. These are just a few 

of the upcoming highlights and with the 
number of alumni in this area I'm sure the 
response will be terrific. During the past few months I had 

occasion to run into numerous classmates, 
a reminder that any alumni who have 

moved into the Philadelphia area and who 
wish to be included in the club's 

mailings and events should contact me. I 
can be reached during the day at 

215-LO-8-7212. Let's keep the ball roIUng! Jim Kelly '64 
RHODE ISL.\ND AND SE. i%L\SSACHUSETTS 

Rev. JOSEPH L. LENNON OP M.A.'50 and Rev. FRANCIS D. NEALY OP 
M.A.'48, both of Providence College, were jointly honored by the ND Ciub of 
Rhode Island and Southeastern Massachu­setts on UND Night, April 20. The 
two Dominicans received the award from JAMES V. CONWAY Jr., outgoing president of the club. 
Rev. THOMAS E. BLANTZ CSC '57, 
vice president for student affairs, described 
the University as vastly different from its 
past image but still dedicated to its 
primar>' role of preparing young men for 
a truly Christian life. MICHAEL MONTI '59 was elected 
president of the club; S. ROBERT 
CHIAPPINELLI '62, vice president; 
BERNARD McMAHON '64, treasurer, and 
THOMAS McHALE '59, secretary. Among those attending the program was 
ROBERT McGOLDRICK '56, of Hart­
ford, Conn., a national director of the 
Alumni Association. 
Thomas J. McHale '59 
ROCK RIVER \'ALLEY 
The Rock River Valley Club of ND has 
selected ROBERT CAHILL, business 
manager of athletics at the University, as 
the Notre Dame Man of the Year for 1971. 
It has been several years since such an 
award was given, but we feel this year 
an appropriate and deserving candidate has : 
been selected. Cahill is from Dixon, III., 
and has been a long-time member of the j
Rock River alumni family. He has 
certainly remembered his friends here at 
home, and now that Bob has risen to the; 
esteemed position which he now holds, he certainly deserves our praise. In 
1^'" 
ENGAGE.MENTS 

Miss Carmen Arce to THOMAS W. 
SWITZER "64. 
MARRIAGES 

Miss Elizabeth A. Kunst and THEO­DORE H. ECKERT '54, May 15. Miss Imogene Gorman and FRANK. ORLANDO '55, May 15. Miss Rebecca Sue Ceilings and CHARLES M. SWITZER Jr. '62, June 19. Miss Judith Ellen Bradeen and BERNARD J. ZAHREN '65, in June. Miss Denise Gibney and DAVID DAY •69MBA, June 19. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM D. GORDON '50, a daughter, Mary Susan, March 13. Mr. and Mrs. ROCCO J. TANNONE '55, a son, John Edward, May 1. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH W. CLINE '56, a son, Joseph Richard, May 13. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD HANK '58, a daughter, Barbara Marie, May 15. Mr. and Mrs. PHILIPP M. MAERSCH '58, twin sons, Peter and David, May 16.­Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM SCANLON '58, a daughter, Suzanne Byrne, May 3. Mr. and Mrs. FRED W. VIDA '59, a daughter, April 14. Mr. and Mrs. JEROME O. NEALON '62, a daughter, Jennifer Marie, March 28. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN DECHELLIS '65, a daughter, Rebecca Ann, in December. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES GOETZ '65, a son, Peter, Dec. 31. Dr. and Mrs. JAMES P. HARNISCH '65, a son, Darin O'Connor, May 30. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH KRUSCHAK '65, a son, Philip Joseph, in November. CapL and Mrs. GARY A. FISHBURN 
•66, M.S.'69, a son, Steven Arthur, Nov. 19. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS F. MULLIGAN '68, a son, Quinn Thomas, April 25. Mr. and Mrs. TIMOTHY E. PACKEY 
'68, a daughter, Leah Elizabeth, June 18. Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL McCORMACK 
•70, a son, Patrick Michael, April 4. Mr. and Mrs. PATRICK DOHERTY '70L, a son, Colin Pearson, June 5. Mr. and Mrs. KENNETH IVERSON 70L, a son, David Gregory, April 7. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM KECK 70L, a son, John Bradley, April 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL GREENE '71MBA, a daughter, Jennifer Elizabeth, June 10. 
ADOPTIONS 

Maj. and Mrs. GEORGE D. NAVADEL 
'58, a son, Stephen Christopher. 
SYMPATHY 

JOHN B. KANALEY '09 on the death 
of his wife, Dec. 4. 

ANTHONY F. GONZALEZ 75 on the 
death of his brother, RAFAEL J. 

(Duke) GONZALEZ '22 in September. 
DONALD P. ALEXANDER '29 on the 
death of his wife in May. 

HENRY KOPEK '31 on the death of his 
son, Wallace, April 24. 

JAMES H. GLEASON '34 on the death 
of his wife, Dorothea, June 18. 

JAMES A. DUBBS Jr. '37, on the death 
of his father, JAMES A. DUBBS Sr. '06, 
Dec. 4. 
JOHN F. KELLY '40 on the death 
of his wife, April 16. 

GEORGE L. CONNOR '48 and JOHN 
F. '50, on the death of their father, Charies H. Connor, M.D., May 29. THOMAS McEVILY '50 on the death of his daughter, Claire. 
HUGH E. MULLIGAN Jr. '50, on the 
death of his father, Hugh E. Mulligan, 
Sr., in May. 

DAVID SHARP '50, on the death of 
his father, IVAN CULLEN SHARP 73, 
April 4. 

HAROLD C. MUNGER '51, on the death of his father, HAROLD H. MUNGER '15, Nov. 16. 
BERNARD BURKE '53 and JEROME 
BURKE '58, on the death of their 
mother, in April. 

PATRICK J. DELUHERY "64, on the death of his father, F. B. Deluhery, Jan. 21. 
WILLIAM KELLY '66, on the death of his mother, April 19. 
THOMAS M. DURKIN '68 and 

GEORGE J. DURKIN '56, on the death of 
their mother, Mrs. Helen Durkin. May 11. 
FREDERICK A. VOGELWEDE 70 and DANIEL C. 71, on the death of their father, FRED A. VOGELWEDE '41, April 21. 
DAVID LAMMERS '71. on the death of his father, PAUL D. LAMMERS '49, June 21. 
LIONEL H. MALONEY 71, on the death of his father, Dr. L. H. Maloney, May 24. 
DEATHS 

R. EMMETT HANLEY '03, in 1970. He is survived by his family at 634 
S. Elmwood Ave., Oak Park, III. 60304. 
JAMES A. DUBBS Sr. '06, Dec. 4. He is survived by his widow, Lucy, 2950 Berk­shire Rd., Cleveland Heights, Ohio 44118; two sons, JAMES A. Jr. '37, and Richard; four daughters, 17 grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. 
JOHN J. BRISLIN '11. He is survived by his family at 340 S. Highland Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206. 
BROTHER FLORENCE CSC '13, at Holy Cross College, New Orleans, La. 
THEODORE N. FEYDER '14, April 5. He is survived by his widow at 800 W. 4th SL, Sioux Falls, S. Dak. 57104, as well as his sons, daughters and grandchildren. 
JOHN VINCENT MCCARTHY '14, March 31. He is survived by his widow, Ethel, 400 Mountain St, Elgin, III. 60120; a son, Richard C ; a daughter, Mrs. Patricia Wells and two grandchildren. 
HAROLD H. MUNGER '15, Nov. 16. He is survived by his widow at 443 W. Front St., Perrysburg, Ohio 43551; a son, HAROLD C. '51, and three grandsons. 
JOHN M. MILLER '17, March 28. He is survived by his family at 25921 Cherry Hflls Blvd., Sun City, Calif. 92380. 
WILLIAM C. O'BRIAN '17. He is survived by his widow at Sturgis, Mich., P.O. Box 277. 
EUGENE L. MURPHY 70. He is survived by his family at 3639 Northeast 25th Ave., Portland, Ore. W/­
VINCENT H. WALSH 70, April 17.|He 
is survived by his widow at 500 Harrison'^.." 
SL, Helena, Mont. 59601, three daughters 
and five grandchildren. i?" 
RAFAEL J. (Duke) GONZALEZ 72;»in 
September 1970. He is survived by his |l-. 
brother, ANTHONY F. 75, 6781 Ayala 
Ave., Makati, Rizal, the Philippines, 'X; 
and others of his family. l.V 
IVAN CULLEN SHARP 73, AprilV4. 
He is survived by his widow, Mary, 2815;, 
N.E. 33rd Ave., PorUand, Ore. 97212; js a daughter, Carolyn, and a son, f/ DAVID SHARP '50. 6-\ 
MORT S. STETTAUER 75, Jan. 5. He is survived by his widow, Eleanor, 625 >•.', 
E. Angela Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 46617:-r-: 
JOHN E. HOGAN 73-76, May 30. H^is survived by a daughter, Mrs. Joan Bell, & 3812 N. Vecino Dr., Covina, Calif. « 
HARRY ENGEL 78, Dec. 22, at Indiana ; 
U., Bloomington, Ind. He is survived Sj 
by three sisters. t 
FRANK J. HOLDAMPF 78, May 7. He is survived by his widow, Helen. 6610 N. |; Lake Dr., Fox Point, Wis. 53217 |; and three children. t^ 
Sr. ST. MAGDALEN HALL SP 78, at.^ St. Mary-of-the-Woods College, St. Mary-r of-the-Woods, Ind. ft 
LESTER C. HEGELE 78, June 25. He is survived by his family at 7050 Saranac, g" Apt. D, La Mesa, CaUf. 92041. J 
MEYER MARKS 78, May 9. He is |survived by his widow and two children, 2800 N. Lake Shore Dr., Chicago, III. ; 60657. I 
RAYMOND H. MULLIGAN 78. June 7. He is survived by his family at 645 ,". Ontario SL, Oak Park, III. 60302. f 
LOUIS W. NORMAN '28, in June. He is survived by his widow, Margaret, 6065 jWorlington Rd., Birmingham, Mich. 48010;; 
VICTOR L. ZIMMERMANN 78, June; 
22. He is survived by his widow, Alleen, i. 82 Strathmore Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583; r and a son. 1 
Sr. ROSE MARY GIBBONS OSU I: 
M.A. 79, in Cleveland, Ohio. %. Sr. M. CONSOLATA MOORE OSU 
M.S. '30, in Cleveland, Ohio. ':' 
JEROME S. CULLIGAN '31, April Sx; He is survived by his widow at 1521 26th •• Ave., Chicago, III. 61201. ; 
CHARLES F. HANCOCK Jr. '31, May. 
11. He is survived by his widow at 3608 ;. Dayton Ave., Louisville. Ky. 40207. 
DONALD M. HAECKER '33, May 21.^ He is survived by his widow, Helen, 6103 ; 
S. Tamiami Trail, Sarasota, Fla. 33581; two daughters, Mrs. Dona Kimple and Mrs.;: Diane Dale, both of Toledo, Ohio; 11 •/ grandchildren and one great-grandchild. 
PAUL A. RIGALI '33, Jan. 30. He is J survived by his widow at 401 N. Branch Rd., l Glenview, III. 60025, a son and a daughter. •. 
Rev. HENRY A. GEUSS CSC '35, July 1, at Holy Cross House, Notre Dame. He is survived by three brothers and a sister. K 
J. FRANK HOLAHAN '35, June 27. He ; is survived by his widow, Louise, Windmill Farm, Armonk Village, N.Y. 10504. 
LEO P. McFARLANE '36, May 11. He .£ is survived by his widow, Edith, 1008 Cleo jSL, Lansing, Mich. 48915; two sons, I a daughter, a granddaughter, two brothers j 
STEPHEN B. NOVAK '36, Jan. 9. He is 5 survived by his widow, Olga, 53 Elm St, * Claremont, N.H. 03743. (.
WILLIAM J. O'SULLFVAN '37, June 19. |He is survived by his widow, Myrtis, f 6 Everett Dr., Newport News, Va.; s four sons and a daughter. i 
JOSEPH M. TRUDEAU '39, March 8. \ He is survived by his widow at Route 1, I 136th SL, Wayland, Mich. 49348. 5 
Rev. WILLIAM F. TOBIN '40, assistant {vicar general of the Servants of the |Paraclete, in May, in Denver, Colo. |
EDWARD F. (Duke) MURPHY Jr. '41. |May 12. He is survived by his widow, |Mary Elizabeth, 8072 Brittany Place, | Pittsburgh, Pa.; four sons and two daughters. 

Rev. CLETUS F. DIRKSEN CPPS Ph.D. '47, March 22, Maria-Joseph Home, Dayton, Ohio. 
PAUL D. LAMMERS '49, June 21. He is survived by his widow, Virginia, 258 
W. Schantz Ave., Dayton, Ohio 45409, and nine children including a son, DAVID "71. 
Dr. THOMAS A. CLINCH M.A.'51, May 20. He is survived by his widow at 518 Dearborn, Helena, Mont. 59601 and nine children. 
Mrs. MARGARET T. MAKIELSKI M.A.'69, in 1970. She is survived by her family at 52881 Ironwood Dr., South Bend, Ind. 46635. 
DRUG USERS 
There is nothing to support in (Rev. Robert) Griffin's thesis that drug users in the university must be treated in such a way, "that they will not carry their practice underground. . . ." The university is not a drug treatment cen­ter. If a guy is addicted, he is to be removed because he is a source of contagion and useless as a student. If he is to be salvaged and other kids protected, he has to go to some place where he will receive professional help. He goes with our prayers, but he goes. 
Drug users are most certainly a source of contagion. They casually distribute individual doses and this has resulted in the destruction of many students. I know a boy who has been destroyed by drugs. He became addicted at Notre Dame not long ago. — JOHN F . MAHER '47, 3121 Betts Dr., N.E., Albuquerque, N.M. 87111. 
THE OLD AND NEW NOTRE DAME 
I know that some people have been critical of the University because of changes that have been made and some unavoidable setbacks which can always be present when an institution attempts to grow and be alive. I feel as qualified as anyone to compare the "old" to the "new" Notre Dame. I have had the unusual opportunity of being a student at Notre Dame at two different times. I began at Notre Dame in 1952, graduating in 1956 in Commerce. After graduation, I en­tered the Seminary and in 1965, a few years after ordination, my Diocese (Youngstown, Ohio) sent me to Notre Dame for further studies during the summers, concluding with an M.A. in theology in 1969. Returning 10 years after graduation and spending Jive consecutive summers there gave me 
an excellent opportunity to evaluate the past and present Notre Dames and to approve the directions she was taking. 
Indeed my knowledge of the school extends beyond personal experience. My father graduated from Notre Dame in 1923 and several cousins and my brother-in-law have also gradu­ated from there. In my opinion, Notre Dame has always been a great Cath­olic University, but it has never been greater than in the last few years under Fr. Hesburgh's direction. Ex­teriors may have changed, but essen­tially the purpose is the same and very evident to those who take the time to look carefully. — REV. JOHN E. RAUB '56 4824 Tuscarawas St., West Canton, Ohio 44708. 
REUNION '71 
Fellow classmates: Having now had a chance to reflect—and recover—on our reunion weekend I say to all who attended—^Thanks! And I take the liberty to express for all of us a par­ticular feeling of gratitude to Jim Frick, Phil Faccenda, Jack Haley, Jim Gibbons, Jim Cooney, their staffs, and to each and all who helped make our reunion so memorable. 
The heritage of the Class of '51— its members—is one of which we may all be proud and a distinction that I am honored to share in.—^JAMES C . HENNESSY '51, 222 Guthrie St., Louis­ville, Ky. 40202. 
Scho M Shadows 
by Richard W. Conklin, 
Director, Information Services 
To some observers, the academic shadow in which the Second Vatican Council rested was cast by the Uni­versity of Louvain, and there are those who hazard the hope that if there is a Vatican III, Notre Dame will make a comparable scholarly contribution. 
Why Notre Dame might be to the post-Vatican II "Pilgrim Church" what Louvain was to the pre-Vatican II institution was seen this summer when one could pretty much find out what was going on in the Church today without having to leave campus. The Theology Department's new pas­toral program held the first of two institutes (co-sponsored by Boston Theological Institute) to train field education directors from Catholic and Protestant seminaries. As this group left, some two dozen inner-city priests arrived for the first major program of the National Office of Black Catholics —a workshop in how white priests can effectively minister to black people. 
Several other Catholic groups met on campus, including the growing Pentecostal (Charismatic Renewal) movement, the Cursillo people, and the more traditional Christian Fam­ily Movement. The Protestants, who have been represented on campus for several summers, were on hand in the form of a national conference of the National Council of Community Churches. Its meeting was marked by the first Protestant service ever to take place in 100-year-old Sacred Heart Church. 
Despite the fact that interest in the institutional Church is ebbing amorig many young people, interest in basic religious issues is strong enough to make theology, once the brunt of jokes among undergraduates, newly popular among Notre Dame students looking for an academic discipline which touches ultimate human concerns. And it is not without significance that the University's first winner of the Danforth Foundation's coveted Har­bison Award for teaching was Father John Dunne, a Holy Cross priest spe­cializing in the philosophy of religion, and that this year's winner of the Arts and Letters College teaching award was liturgist William Storey. 
As can be seen by the parade of groups on campus during the summer, the variety of life styles within the Church is growing. And the coming­of-age of theology as an acadeinic activity is symbolized by the dropping of the exemption from required courses formeriy given non-Catholics and by a wider divergence of faculty backgrounds. The latter parallels an earlier development in the Univer­sity's Department of Philosophy, which recently received the highest rating of any humanities department at a Catholic institution in an Ameri­can Council on Education survey of graduate faculties. 
Because Notre Dame has a quality of openness congenial both to varied Christian life styles and to creative Christian scholarship, it perhaps has the best chance to ride out the polar­ization storm affecting all established churches. It can do this, in the words of one statement, by providing "an excellent arena for confrontation be­tween conventional and radical values within society and within the Church" and by melding honest scholarship and visionary faith in such a way as to persuade reform-minded students that "the sight of the past can make the future an improvement upon the present." 
;Ni'^:'fe-«5# 
f ^71-72 
• 1971 MIAMI ^,>JS BEACH FOOT­BALL HOLIDAY 
OCTOBER 7-10, 1971 
via Eastern Airlines Jet 

This tour includes three nights at the exclusive DEAUVILLE HOTEL, on the ocean, Miami Beach • Full-Course Break­fasts and Dinners each day! • Special Welcome Party • Game Ticket and trans­portation to game. 
Price S239 per person, plus S26 taxes, from Chicago, including air! 
• 1971 NEW ORLEANS FOOTBALL HOLIDAY 
NOVEMBER 18-21, 1971 ­
via Eastern Airlines Jet 

Three nights accommodations at the luxurious ROYAL ORLEANS HOTEL, right in the French Quarter! • Special Arrival Party • An evening of fun at Pete Fountain's! • Game Ticket and transpor­tation to Baton Rouge for the L.S.U. Game. 
Price S229 per person, plus S22 taxes from Chicago, including air! 
• 1972 "IRELAND ESCAPADE" 

APRIL 22-30, 1972 —vi a TWA Jet 
Tour includes seven wonderful nights in Ireland • Visits to famous Irish cities of DUBLIN, KILLARNEY, others! •Full Irish Breakfasts and lunch or dinner each day! • Medieval Castle Tour, Ban­quet! • Superior Hotels, many extras! 
Price S329 per person, plus $26 taxes, services from New York, including air! 
All tours limited to Notre Dame Alumni and immediate families! 
Send to: "^ Mr. James D. Cooney Executive Director University of Notre Dame Alumni Association Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Please send me complete information 
on 
the following Alumni tours: 
ni97 1 MIAMI BEACH FOOTBALL HOLIDAY ni97 1 NEW ORLEANS FOOTBALL HOLIDAY ni97 2 "IRELAND ESCAPADE" 

K 
Name  
Address  a  
City  u  
State  Zip  
CLASS YEAR  
J  
i<j  







