The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
I'V ?^iB ls»ok is not ^o b* 
THE NOTK^D'AME 

ALUMNUS 
%1/Nft 

93^ (commencement 
% I) Recipients of honorary de­grees, Toitb Father O'Hara. Left to right, John L. Meineman, '55; Father O'Hara,^ '//; Rl. Rev. Joseph A/. Corrigan, and Terence B. Cosgrove, *Q6. 
# 2) Dislricl gairernors meet Is discuss-Rocf(ne Memorial. Left to right, Norhert F. Schiuartz, 33: Edward F. 0*Toole, '25; J. Arthur Haley, *26; Thomas V. Dollard, *2h Frank '^-Uo^^, University comptroller; Clyde E. Broussard, ' / 3 ; Ambrose A. O'ConnelL '07; James E. Arm­strong, '25; IVilliam R. Dooley, *26; Rev, Hugh 0*Donnell CS.C, '16; Raymond T. Miller, *14: John C. Tally, *//; Clarence E. 
9 3) Archbishop Cicognani, Ap­ostolic Delegate, delivering Bac­calaureate Sermon. (Bishop Shell pontificated ai the Baccalaureate Mass.) 
• 4) Rev. John M._ Ryan, '06, Toith Mark Beatus, *70, Tpho re­turned to the campus for the first lime in 68 years. 
O 5J The interior of the gym­nasium at the Baccalaureate Mass. 
Vol. 16 June, 1938 No. 7 


eiTTS 

The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
For the Medieval Studies Library Anonymous ..^1,000.00 From MRS. EDWARD L. DOHENY, LOS Angeles, California A page from the Gutenburg Bible From MR. JAMES J. HAVERTY, Adanta, Georgia Walter Cooper's "History of Georgia" (four volumes) From MR. RICHARD REID, Laetare Medalist^ Augusta, Georgia Prizes for letters to newspapers 100.00 
For the Roclcne Memorial 

Charles A. Grcitung. Ada, Oklahoma $ 500.00 Rev. John J. Henry, Atlantic City, N. J 10.00 Hon. John P. McGoorty, Chicago, Illinois 50.00 Rev. £. J. Mungovan, Hammond, Indiana. 10.00 Rev. Frank J. McQuillan, Detroit, Michigan 50.00 Rev. Roy F. Hagerty, Rochester, N. Y. 5.00 Bamet FarroU, Chicago, Illinois . 25.00 A friend 5.00 Rev. Maurice Walsh, Battle Creek, Michigan 25.00 Lloyd Slolich. 3 7 5.00 Rev. Leo J. Chapman, Detroit, Michigan 25.00 Paul Kane. Salinas, California 2.50 
J. Bell Moran, a . '06 15.00 Rev. Paul Hallinan. 32 -10.00 Total new gifts-_ $ 767J0 Rev. John F. Nadolny, Fort Wayne, Ind« 10.00 Rev. Russell J. McVinney, Spec. '37 10.00 Previously acknowledged _ 171,053.49 Carl Nedom, Salinas, California 10.00 Grand Total to date, June 15, 1938--$171,820.99 
For the Nieuwiand Mennorial 

Anonymous — Alumnus '38 -$ 1,000.00 Professor Henry B. Froning - 100.00 Richard R. Vogt, '15 25.00 Anoyumous — Alumnus "27 25.00 Joseph A. Gartland, Sr., Boston. Mass-10.00 James F. Doyle, 33 5.00 
Total ne%v gifts--$ 1,165.00 Previously acknowledged , - 36,99233 
Grand Total to date, June 15, 1938-438,157.53 
/^d^ ^ ^ 'ccA,^,trj,c. 
PLACEMENT — PLEASE NOTE 
Conditions, particidarly among the 1938 graduates, have practically forced the Alumni Office to do what it has always planned to do under more auspicious circumstances, institute placement work as part of our program. 
facilities are still very limited. Nevertheless, work with the Class of 1938 and the Alumni Ques­tionnaires sent out during the year have brought intimations of success if we can count on the continued cooperation of alumni, particularly the Clubs. 
Three major steps will go a long way toward a successftd program: 
1. If you know of a job open, advise the Club and the Alumni Office. 
2.
 If you need a job, send the Alumni Office and the Club chairman or officers a copy of your aca­demic and experience qualifications. 

3.
 All Local Clubs should enlist a committee, preferably a compact, influential and willing commit­tee, to clear locally available jobs and N. D. men to fill them. 



The Notre Dame Alumnus 
I?ie magazine is published from October to June inclusive by the AliunnJ Assooation 
JAMES £. AKMSTKONC *25 Member of &e Amaieam
of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame, Indiana. The sabscriptioQ price is $2.00 
Editor Alumni CoaadL 
a year; the price of ancle copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 Inchide 
WiLLUM R. Dooixr. 76 a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, Member of Nail. Calbolie 
Managing Editor 1923. at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Alumni FederatioB 

JUNE, 1938 No. 7
Vol. 16 

800 Alumni Attend 94th Commencement 
Attendance Ties '37 Record; Events Varied in 
Appeal But Unvaried in Achievements; Ten-Year 
Reunion Renews Old Tradition; 549 New Alumni 
Eight hundred alumni came hack to the campus for the 94th annual commencement exercises of the Uni­versity. The numher surprised the Alumni Office and probably will sur­prise those of you who were among the returning. The answer is that all of the events of the week-end at­tracted substantial groups. -A.nd it was only at the alumni banquet on Saturday night, June 4, that the real strength of the returned brothers was in evidence. The week-end was com­paratively quiet in the aggregate, but as the large number of activities were checked, the truth began to take shape. 
The three major events of the week-end belonged to the University and to the Class of 1938. 
First cama the magnificent Cen­tenary Mass on Saturday morning in Sacred Heart Church. His Excellency, Most Rev. Amleto Giovanni Cicog­nani, D.D., Titular Archbishop of Laodicea and Apostolic Delegate to the United States, pontificated at the Notre Dame observance of the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Congregation of Holy Cross. The beauty of Sacred Heart Church, the colorful vestments, the glory of the Gregorian of the Moreau Seminary choir, combined with the sermon of the Superior General of the Congre­gation, Very Rev. James W. Dona­hue, C.S.C, '07, fittingly clima.xed the rich history of the Congregation in its memorable hundred years. 
The week-end produced the first fine weather in several weeks, em­phasized in the annual flag-raising ceremonies which followed the Mass, 
TO THE ALUMNI 

A greeting of the neiv President of the Association 
**l appreciate the high honor that the members of the Alumni conferred upon me by my election to the presidency of our organiza­tion. A million thanks. 
"Every student who has attend­ed Notre Dame is an everlasting friend of the University and will do everything he possibly can to increase its prestige and promote its success. The Notre Dame spirit is more alive today than ever and 1 am sure each man shares with me the eager desire to render some real service to our Alma Mater. 
"When I turn over the office next June to my successor I am confident we will show a definite accomplishment." 
-A.MBKOSE A. O'CONNELL, '07. . 

when the Class of 1938 raised its Washington Birthday gift on the flag­pole of the Main Quadrangle. 
On Sunday morning, in the beauti­fully decorated gymnasium, the Sol­emn Pontifical Mass for the Class of 1938 was celebrated by the Most Rev. Bernard J. Sheil, D.D., Atudliary Bishop of Chicago, with the Apostolic Delegate delivering the masterful bac­calaureate sermon which the Anrai-NUS is privileged to reprint. 
At 4 o'clock, in the gymnasium again, 5,000 families, friends, and graduates, assembled for the key event of the week-end, the awarding of degrees to the 549 members of the Class of 1938. 
Administration and deans of the Colleges awarded the honorary, the doctor's, the master's, and the bach­elor's diplomas to the successful can­didates. 
Then, in the brief but weighty ad­dress which reflects his successful career as one of the nation's great lawyers, Terence B. Cosgrove, '06, now a doctor of laws of the Univer­sity, spoke to the assembly. The ALUMNUS, always pleased to bring the great addresses of the Commence­ment to its readers, takes double pleasure in presenting again the ad­dress of one of our own alumni, act-
AT THE ALUMNI BANQUET Left to right. Past Presidents Art Huslies. 'll, and Pat Manion, '22: Mark Beatus, '70, Past Presidents Bernard Voll. '17. and Franlc E. Hering, 
•98. and Terence Cosgrove, '06; the new President, Ambrose O'Connell, '07. tallts to Rev. J. Hush O'Donnell, C. S. C '16. and Past President Harry 
Miller, '10; Past Presidents Byron Kanalcy, '04; and Bill Cotter, '13, flank Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., '11, president of the University. 
ing in the honored capacity of Com­mencement speaker. 
Outstanding in the alumni -week­end was the annual hanquet of the Association, given on Saturday eve­ning. This year, the Class of 1938 having enjoyed its alumni hanquet on May 16, the banquet audience con­sisted of only those alumni specially returned for the occasion. More than 650 -ffere present, to hear the report of the president of the Asso­ciation, William E. Cotter, '13, and to read the report of the executive secretary, James E. Armstrong, '25, both incorporated in this issue of the AtUMNUS, both reflecting a year of achievement in the Association lead­ing the way to more clearly defined paths of progress. 
Father O'Hara Talks 
The president of the University, Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, spoke informally this year, but de­livered one of the finest of his an­nual addresses to the alumni. In it he incorporated the philosophy of Catholic higher education, and its ap­plication at Notre Dame. And he concluded with an inspiring picture of the University as it will be when the broad program of progress is suc­cessfully culminated. 
Alumni resided in Lyons, Morris­sey and Howard Halls, with a few living in Dillon. The convenience of the dining halls, the golf course, the lake, and the interest in the adjacent construction on the Rockne Memorial, made these residence halls an excel­lent choice this year. 
The golf course, as always since its opening, proved a popular outlet for activity for alumni of all the years, the weather being propitious for the first time in three weeks. 
Reunion of the Golden jubilee Class of 1888 was marked by the awarding of an LL.D. to Mr. John L. 
Heineman, secretary of that Class, and a distinguished alumnns with whose achievements the Association is familiar. 
The 25-Year Silver Jubilee was well attended and under the direction of Rev. Alan Heiser, C.S.C, local chairman, and Association President 
Present at the memorial ceremony in the Community Cemetery were, left to right, Jim Meehan, '24, Frank Vennel^ '77, Father John MacNamara. '97, and Bob Riordan, '24. 
William E. Cotter, the Reunion din­ner on Friday night and the subse­quent week-end of activities were thoroughly enjoyed. Judge John F. O'Connell spoke for the Class at the alumni banquet on Saturday night. 
The Five-Year Class of 1933 broke, among other things, all records for attendance with 156 registered mem­bers of the Class on hand. The local committee under Paul Boehm, ar­ranged a party on Friday night at the Columbia Athletic Club for the Class, which also provided a large section of the alumni banquet on Sat­urday night. 
Outstanding in establishing a splendid idea w^as the Carroll Rec smoker and reunion of the 10-Year Class of 1928. This event, staged in Carroll Rec after the alumni ban­quet on Saturday night, drew not only 
the large 100-attendance membership of the Class, but included many of the campus dignitaries as guests. The latter group numbered Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., Rev. J. Hugh O'Don­nell, C.S.C, Rev. James Gallagan, C.S.C., Eev. Patrick CarroU, C.S.C, and Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C, among its speakers. The Class com­mittee and officers, as a picture in this issue indicates, were on hand, looldng little the worse for ten years' wear. Much credit is due co-chair­men Willard Wagner and Andrew Boyle for the success of the smoker, which was worked on the theme that the boys wanted to come back to the campus in a 100 percent sense of the word. 
That Softball Game 
Also vivid and new in the week-end annals, was the Softball game on Sat­urday morning (late) between the 1933 and the 1928 teams. The game was played on the Walsh Hall dia­mond, and, as far as the ALUMNUS has been able to determine, resulted in a decision similar to the famous Col. Hoynes case in the law school, "something to be said for both sides." 
The Class of 1931, which doesn't depend on an official reunion to put it across, met at the German Village in South Bend on Friday night. 
While the alumni found ample ways of whiling away the week-end, the University's show went on. 
Direvctor Thomas E. Mills staged three one-act plays in Washington Hall on Friday night for a packed house of visitors. The plays, done in the fine tradition of the University Theatre, were augmented by the music of the Notre Dame Symphony, under Professor Daniel T; Pedtke. 
On Saturday night, the Glee Club, directed by Professor Joseph J. Casa­(Continucd on Page 267) 
AT THE BASEBALL GAME 

In the picture at the left are: Left to right. Father Eugene Bnrke, "06; Billy Byan. '11; Joe Hnrphy. '11; Walter Miller, '20: Hugh Daly. '12; aoney McGlynn, '12: John Tretton, '13: Harry Miller, '10: Father Patrick Carroll, '11: Tom O'Neil. "13. The candid shot at the right includes Tom Walsh, '24: Walter Miller, '20: Father James Gallagan, '06; Art Hughes, '11; Ed. Haisan, '26; Father Timothy Murphy, '01: Tony Ceres, '28: Ed. McGauIey, '28. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
The Commencement Address 
More than 30 years ago I appeared where you young men are now assem­bled, and for the same purpose, — to receive a diploma, that decisive stamp of approval, from the gracious hand of this great University -which -we all love and revere, and of -which we are so justly proud. 
Today again it is my blessed privi­lege and high honor to receivs from Alma Mater another generous expres­sion of her continued confidence and esteem. 
In addressing this distinguished graduating class I have neither the -wish nor the ability to present for your consideration any abstract prin­ciple of correct conduct TOth which you are not familiar. By precept and example such principles have been be­fore you constantly and persuasively in every phase of your college life. It would be a sad commentary indeed to suggest that at this time the doc­trine is unknown or its application uncertain. 
This, however, I am con-vinced I may do: With the background of ex­perience I have had in the observation of the lives and conduct of men, I should be able to impress upon your minds, convincingly and indelibly, at least one thought that will serve you well. It will not be the announcement of a little kno-ivn maxim, or a new or novel application of long established principles. 
The Virtue of Industry 

I wish to speak to you regarding the simple, homely, virtue of industry. 
In America today there exist, and for many years there have existed, a desire and an ability upon the part of the yoimger generation to acquire knowledge — to be more specific, to complete high school and graduate from college. The number of young men and, with some of you, perhaps, the number of young women of col­lege education with whom you -will be required to compete in the various avocations of life, is astonishingly large. Prom every section of this ex­pansive nation institutions of learn­ing, colleges and universities, are sending forth their graduates, in a 
By Terence B. Cosgrove, '06 

Distinsuished Alumnus and Lawyer, of Los Angeles, Warns Graduates that In­dustry Is All-important in Life Conflict. 
general sense all equally equipped to accomplish the common end, namely, to succeed. To succeed not in a small measure that comes to him who mere­ly competes and completes, but to suc­ceed in a conspicuous fashion, to compete with such a marked degree of earnestness that outstanding ac­complishment is assured. 
For you the competition is about to begin. With the number of college and university graduates available for every opportunity that presents itself, it is not an exaggeration to say that your college training is not more than a qualifying test, and your col­lege or university diploma e-vidence only of good intention. 
Grades Have Served Purpose 
The standing you maintained as a member of your class, as evidenced by your grades, was a necessary and commendable indicium of application, adaptability, and other essential traits of a serious minded student. But these grades have served their pur­pose. True, they are a criterion of accomplishment. But they are past accomplishments. Do not be deceived that they are infallible indicia of fu­ture accomplishments. 
TERENCE B . COSGROVE, '06 

With entirely pardonable pride yon may display the emblems of outstand­ing proficiency and achievement in classroom effort. Your diploma sure­ly means more than a • foor-year course in college if above the signa­tures of the members of the Faculty in bold script appears the legend 
cum laude. 
But do not be deceived into con­cluding that such emblems are synon­ymous with success hereafter. 
Handicaps in College 

A college course is a brief period— ordinarily four years. Failure to at­tain outstanding prominence in class work may result from any one or more of a few circumstances that do not continue after commencement day. A student may have had improper or insufficient preliminary prepara­tion. He may have chosen, or per­chance he may have been compelled, to devote portions of his time to ac­tivities other than those provided by the curriculum. But now upon his graduation these handicaps are left behind. 
He now enters upon the contest for which all prior effort was a mere pre­liminary. The course is not the cus­tomary four-year period, or the com­bined eight-year course. The period is ordinarily the remainder of a life­time. It probably will exceed 25 years; it may reach 50. 
If, during this period, the -virtue of industry is cultivated and practiced, the outcome is reasonably definite. 
The element of uncertainty is pres­ent in the well directed effort of a lifetime to approximately the same degree as the -virtue of industry is absent. 
Uncertainty disappears when con­sidered in the light of industry ap­plied. 
Success is reasonably certain where conspicuous industry is manifest. 
Success is conspicuous by its ab­sence when the absence of industry is manifest. 
Do not confuse the term INDUS­TRY with the term ABILITY. 
The term INDUSTRY is per se. 
The term ABILITY is per accidens. 
If the dean of your Law School re­marks: "This young man has been outstanding for his industry," ask no mora I know that in the ensuing 10, 20, 30, or 40 years he ^rill he con­stantly prominent and successful in the practice of his profession. 
If the dean of your Law School re­marks: "This young man has been outstanding for his ability," I know only what the young gentleman has done, and not what he ^viIl do. 
If the conspicuous ability is the re­sult, direct or remote, of constant well directed effort and singleness of pur­pose, the presence also of unusual alertness of mind and celerity of pre­cise decision is comforting, if not in­spiring, to consider. 
In the iinal analysis, however, when the long period of man's activity is considered, the qualification that more definitely than any other assures suc­cess as the reward for honest effort is the virtue of industry. 
Neither should vou confuse the term INDUSTRY \rith the term SELF-DENIAL. 
Although no one who entertains a correct concept of the duty of the in­dividual to the community hesitates daily to practice, ordinarily in a les­ser degree, some form of self-denial, and although no one, in my humble opinion, is correctly constituted who looks upon self-denial as anything short of a Christian virtue that strengthens, refreshes and purifies, the fact remains, and my observation is, that the fact is prominent in its persistence, that, unwittingly or not, he who refuses to practice the virtue of industry denies to himself, and probably to others dependent upon him, the solace and comfort that or­dinarily follow when one contemplates his temporal as well as spiritual blessings. 
This is not theory. This is fact. Accept it as such. 
At the end of the day, or year, the accomplishment that results from an extraordinary effort—^the volume and efficiency of your performance that represents exceptional diligence, long­er and more assiduous application, is compensation that satisfies and en­courages and impels one on to renewed effort and greater accomplishment. 
It is compensation that creates a state of mind, a mental attitude that causes one to embrace his task -mfh avidity, and to progress it immediate­ly with determination. The success that comes only after consistent and persistent exceptional diligence is the reward of the virtue of industry. 
Success is all too often measured by the accumulation of wealth. It may not be incorrect, however, to say 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
that in the competitive markets of toi­day, where man's brain and brawn are the commodities and merchandise of common barter, success is ordin­arily, if not necessarily, accompanied by comfortable and appropriate mar­gins of financial gain. 
Stating this mercenary idea with such delicacy as lies within my lim­ited facility of expression, I wish to impress upon you this one thought: you cannot forget it; you cannot mis­understand ; 30 years from today you may recall it, many, I hope, with great satisfaction; few, I sincerely trust, with discomfort. 
In the nomenclature of the ex­change, where indicia of success are barter, industry is a gilt edge invest­ment which rarely misses a dividend. 
Industry and self-reliance have con­tributed no small part to the accom­plishment of the present status of this great institution—the University of Notre Dame. 
As I observe, this University is second to none in progressing the standards and ideals of true civiliza­tion. By true civilization I mean moral and intellectual advancement. 
Undoubtedly you are familiar with the circumstances surrounding the original settlement on this site of the Community of the Holy Cross, and 
June, 1938 

the development of the undertaking from that day to this. Surely it is a glorious chronicle, inspiring to con­template. 
Many years ago as a young man I stood on this campus as a member of the student body of this institution at the dedication of the statue of Father Sorin. 
In speaking of the contribution to Christianity by Father Sorin, his con­temporaries and successors, the elo­quent and greatly lamented Father John Cavanaugh said: "These men, the members of this community, have done for God and Christianity what the merchants •will not do for gold, or the soldier for glory." 
With the inspiration of these splen­did men with whom you have been as­sociated during these past years, with the light of their ripe scholarship and the splendor of their Christ-like lives to light the way, with the high ideals of Christian manhood which Notre Dame never fails to stamp upon the minds, the hearts, and the character of her valiant sons, — with confidence, with courage and assured hope, at some future date, when the shadows of the years are lengthening behind you, you may hear from the gracious lips of Alma Mater: "Well done my son, you are my joy, my pride, and ray glory." 
Honorary Degrees at 1938 Commencement 
Honorary degrees were awarded at the 1938 Commencement to the fol­lowing: the Most Rev. Amleto Gio­vanni Cieognani, apostolic delegate to the United States; Rt. Rev. Joseph 
M. Corrigan, rector of the Catholic University of America; Terence B. Cosgrove, '06, Los Angeles, the Com­mencement speaker; and John L. Heineman, '88, Connersville, Indiana, a distinguished Catholic scholar and business leader. 
The citations for the honorary de­grees were as follows: 
The degree of Juris Utrius­q u e (doctor of both laws), honor­is causa, on : 
An eminent churchman, who through many years and in several capacities has had very important part in the government of the univer. sal Church, and who at this time has honored highly the Congregation of Holy Cross, the University, and the Class of 1938 by his presence and gracious participation in this Com­mencement — the Titular Archbishop of Laodicea and Apostolic Delegate for His Holiness Pope Pius XI to the United States, the Most Reverend Amleto Giovanni Cieognani, of Wash­ington, D. C. 
The degree of doctor of laws, honoris causa, on: A prelate and schoolman distin­guished by his services to the Church 

as educator of priests for the Arch­diocese of Philadelphia, efficient di­rector of large charities in that arch­diocese, superintendent of the Catho­lic Missionary Society, director of Laymen's Retreats, and as present rector of the Catholic University of America—the Right Reverend Joseph Moran Corrigan, of Washington, D.C. 
An alumnus of the University, member of the Class of 1906, who in his profession of law has achieved in his State of California high distinc­tion, by his rare legal scholarship, by his impressive championship of the philosophic principles underlying the law, and by his fine integrity in the practice of lavr —• the Honorable Terence Byrne Cosgrove, of Los An­geles, California.' 
Anothe r distinguished alumnus, graduate of the University in 1888, who through the even half century since then has, along with the atten­tion demanded by important business interest, devoted his time, talents, and resources to the encouragement of scholarship among educated Cath­olics, and who, in pursuance of this idea], has himself added luster to Catholic scholarship by bis researches in the pioneer period of the Church in Indiana and other states of the Middle-West — John Louis Heine-man, of Connersville, Indiana, 


The Baccalaureate Sermon 
By Most Rev. Amieto Giovanni Cicosnani, D.D., LL.D., '34 Titular Archbishop of Laodicea Apostolic Delesate to the United States' 
Pope's Representative Praises Congregation of Holy 
Cross; Tells Graduates of the One True Wisdom 
It has been arranged this year to have the Commencement exercises of the University of Notre Dame coin­cide •with the centenary celebration of the founding of the Congregation of Holy Cross. But what connection can there be between these two events? The centenary has to do with members of a religious community, with a group of men who live together in a special bond of brotherhood; while the com­mencement is a glorious and memor­able day for you, young graduates, and for those dear to you, a day Avhich rewards a period of anxiety in your life and a period of sacrifices sustained by your families to prepare for your future in the various pro­fessions of the world. Yet notwith­standing such real differences there is a true and intimate connection be­tween your graduation and the cen­tenary of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Formation of Congregation 

Basil Anthony Moreau, a priest of the diocese of Mans in France, real­ized, after the great social changes which followed the French Eevolu­tion, that there was urgent need to raise the standard of instruction in colleges. He saw clearly, too, that it was necessary to hold out a helping hand to parish priests in the fulfill­ment of their duties, especially in the giving of missions and spiritual re­treats and in the instruction of youth. Others also had seen the situation, but he courageously undertook to meet it. He grouped about himself a number of priests who became known as "Auxiliary Priests." Under the impulse of the charity of Christ, the little seed he sowed grew quickly into a promising tree. In addition the Bishop of Mans desired to entrust to the charge of Father Moreau a communit y of teaching Brothers, called Brothers of St. Joseph, founded only a little while before by Father Dujarie. This union of the Auxiliary Priests and of the Brothers of St. Joseph became the Congregation of the Fathers and the Brothers of Holy Cross; and on the 1st of March, 1837, this new Congregation received its Fundamental Act. Last year the cen­tenary of the Community was ob­served in France, and in these days 
the celebration is renewed solemnly at the University of Notre Dame, now the center for the General Curia of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Period Is Turbulent 

The age in which Father Moreau lived was one of the most turbulent periods in the history of Europe. In his century there were violent polit­ical, social, industrial, and intellectual revolutions. It was, indeed, a time of progress and advance, of discoveries and inventions; but these became de­filed in currents that were poisonous for souls. Gallicanism and Jansen­ism were making headway in France; and to these was added lUuminism, or a Naturalism in the sciences and in literature which too often pre­scinded from God, and came at last to be arrayed against the Creator and the Last End. How many names in that century are conspicuous for the evil they caused! But how many others too did not Divine Providence raise up just then, and in that very nation which in history can for her ardent and generous faith boast the 
ARCHBISHOP CICOGNANI 

title: "Eldest Daughter of the Church." It is enough to recall the names of Ampere, Pasteur, Veuillot, Ozanam, Dupanloup, and with them a noteworthy group of Saints and of founders of religious institutes, dedi­cated to provide for the needs of the spirit, especially in labors for the benefit of youth. 
These religious founders equipped themselves with human knowledge to the full extent of the scientific ad­vances then attained, with the aim in view of preserving in our Christian people the inestimable gift of faith and the sublime treasure of Catholic morality. Amongst them all Father Moreau stands out. How well his In­stitute corresponded to the needs of the times is attested by the fact of its rapid expansion from Europe to America, from Africa to India; and the University of Notre Dame shows forth its spirit, one of the best known in America, recognized and appreci­ated wherever studies and the sciences are in honor, ready to aid every healthy movement of progress, and at the same time a watchful guardian of eternal truth. 
Notre Dame Life 

This, my dear young men, is the bond between yourselves and the Con­gregation of Holy Cross. Why did your parents choose this university in preference to others? Why did they desire that you should complete here your course of studies? The answer is to be found in the manner of life which is followed here. You have lived here with the professors who taught you each day in the class­rooms. Nay, more, you have lived here with the Divine Master, present in the Sacrament of the Altar, and with Him, under the direction of the Fathers of Holy Cross, you have carried on the work of your spiritual and mental formation. 
To seek after knowledge, only for the sake of knowledge, to promote human culture as an end in itself, is a defective method, because such an education is wanting in its highest element and becomes little more than a mere technical training. Science, from the Latin scire "to know," im­plies knowledge. But with what great trepidation ought not society to look upon youth when science is not cou­pled with wisdom in the preparation for life. Science and wisdom are not the same thing. Wisdom is a virtue, and every virtue is a disposHio per­fecti ad optimum. It is a sublime virtue, which has for its scope to shed light, and indeed to direct ^^^th divine, rather than -with human, light. There are things which are simply intellec­tual. There are other things which pertain to the soul and bind us to God in the bond of sonship and of finality: for these study alone is not enough, nor a scientific method no matter how perfect; but to acquire them there is need for recollection, silence, medita­tion, exercises of abnegation and self-denial, watchfulness against the be­ginnings of the passions, will-power, and the practice of ^^rtue. 
"The Book of Divine Wisdom" 
In His written revelation God chose to give us a book on wisdom. In the inspired word, prepared for the salva­tion of mankind, He wiled to present to us, even before the Incarnation of Our Lord, the Liber Sapientiae, called also "The Book of Divine Wisdom," one of the so-called deutero-canonical books of the Old Testament, errone­ously attributed to Solomon. The author considers vrisdom from the in­tellectual and from the moral side, and makes an historic application of it. The Hebrews were the Chosen People because they permitted them­selves to be guided by wisdom; but others who abandoned wisdom fell into miserable calamities in spite of the great glory of their culture and civilization, even falling so low as to adore the transient and corrupt things of this world. 
The author sets it in relief that wisdom is the source of happiness and immortality because it consists of uprightness of heart and in cor­rectness of language and actions: "0 how beautiful is the chaste generation with glory" (Wisdom 4, 1), while on the contrary "Wisdom will not enter into a malicious soul, nor dwell in a body subject to sins" (Wisdom 1, 24). The OTse man lives securely not\vith­standing deceptive appearances; but instead the unwise man is uneasy, dis­turbed by uncertainty and by fears. The contrast between the two TOU ap­pear above all in the closing scenes of life. At the end of our days on earth conscience will cause the unwise to say: "We have erred from the way of truth" (Wisdom 5, 6). Wisdom is the perfecting of knowledge in every science: the divine lamp, as it were, which illumines the mind, and the longed-for heavenly treasure which moves the wU. It surpasses riches, which in comparison with it becomes a thing of as little worth as sand by the sea. And for that matter when 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
wisdom is present it is accompanied by other good things; but when it is absent earthly treasures are of little value or none at all. 
In relation to God, Wisdom is per­sonified, endowed with the divine na­ture, attributes, and qualities. "She is the brightness of eternal light, and the unspotted mirror of God's maj­esty, and the image of His goodness" (Wisdom, 7, 26). Wisdom is %vith God from all eternity, shares His thoughts and life, is identified with the Divine Word. Wisdom is the Word made flesh, revealing to the world all Chris­tian truth. 
Before the coming of Jesus Christ mankind had caught a glimpse of Wisdom, had desired it, and yearned for it; but had not attained it except in an imperfect way. St. Paul, speak­ing of the Greeks, says: "The Greeks seek after Wisdom" (I Cor. 1, 22). And in fact they found a great deal of it: the rhetoricians had wisdom of word; the philosophers, Avisdom of thought; the artists, wisdom of beau­ty; the jurists, wisdom of govern­ment; the conquerors, TOsdom of arms. But there was another seem­ing msdom in the midst of these which was destructive of peace and order. It was: "the wisdom of the flesh .. . an enemy of God" (Bomans VIII, 7) and it causes men to lose sight of spiritual treasures and of life immortal. When the light of eternity no longer shines forth, what order can we look for in the family, in the education of children, in social rela­tionships, in personal duties? Our ac­tions are dependent upon our princi­ples. We live as we think; and if our thinking is egoism, concupiscence, and materialism, we can expect every in­tellectual and moral disorder. "For the wisdom of the flesh is death; but the wsdom of the spirit is light and peace" (Koman VIII, 6).' 
Knowledge, Virtue, Wisdom 
My dear young men, you have ac­quired knowledge and virtue in this university. Now that you gird your­selves to go forth and make your con­tribution to society, the best wish that I can extend to you is that wisdom may accompany you. This wish comes to you from our Alma Mater rather than from me. I am happy to be able to say "from our Alma Mater," as the high privilege will be accorded me of graduating with you; and for that honor I am sincerely grateful to the President and to the whole faculty of the University. 
On this solemn day our Alma Mater can direct to you the words of Holy Scripture: "You know that I have taught you statutes and justices, as the Lord my God hath commanded me: so shall you do them in the land which you shall possess: and you shall observe, and fulfill them in practice. For this is your wisdom and under­
June. 1938 
standing in the sight of Nations, that hearing all these precepts, they may say: behold a wise and understanding people, a great nation." (Deuterono­my IV, 5-6). 
There is but one true -wisdom; and it is the Divine Wisdom, because "all ivisdom is from the Lord God" (Ec­clesiasticus I, 1). If we consider its essential characteristic, we see this very clearly. St. Thomas Aquinas, patron of all Catholic schools and scholars, many times speaks of wis­dom in his Summa Theologica; and he sets before us its nature. (St. Thomas, Sununa Theol. la, 2ae, q. 57, art. 2, c. 1; ib. 2a, 2ae, q. 19, art. 7, c; ib. 2a, 2ae, q. 23, art. 2, 1.). Wis­dom has for its object the supreme causes of things: considerat caitsas altissimas. Without the knowledge of these causes, other causes and eiFects and actions cannot be well ordered; but in the knowledge of them wisdom aims to give order and harmony to all. We can readily realize this from our own experience. If a man is narrow-minded, his plans and designs are always faulty. There is a defect of -vision and of generosity. Vast spheres are shut out from his gaze, and as a result his actions are poor and wretched and mean. 
This World's Wisdom 
And what shall I say of those who wander from the path of goodness? of those who restrict their lives to the little world of this earth on which we live for so short a time? The Apostle, Saint James, tells lis that their wis­dom will be simply earthly, or worse, sensual, or still worse, devilish: (St. James III, 15) earthly, or limited to the passing things of this world, sen­sual, or restricted to what may please the body, de-vilish, or confined -with­in the sphere of egoism and pride as in the case of Lucifer who became the angel of darkness. (St. Thomas Sum­ma Theol: 2a, 2ae, q. 45, art. 1, 1.) The ^visdom of this world, Sapientia huius saeculi, (I Cor. II, 6) St. Paul calls all this, and he sets it over in opposition to the Wisdom of God. "We speak -\visdom among the per­fect" he says referring to people who have reached maturity of Christian life; "yet not the ->visdom of this world, neither of the princes of this world that come to nought. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mys­tery, a wisdom which is hidden, which God ordained before the world, unto our glory" (I Cor. II, 6-7). 
_ "nie supreme cause, the Causa Al­tisaima, is God. Both reason and rev­elation tell us this; and the sciences -with all their progress have done nothing but modernize the old and the solid proofs for the e.xistence of God. Only -with God in mind and in the heart can human life be orientated, well ordered, and tranquil. But to know this is not enough. We could 
(Continued on Page 247) 

June. 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 

The Centenary Sermon 
By Very Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C, '07 Superior General 
The Sermon at the Mass of Thanksgiving which marked, on June 4, the Notre Dame Observance of the lOOlh Anniver­sary of the Founding of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
"Give car to me, you that follow that which is jitst and you that seek the Lord; look unto the rock whence j/ou arc hcien and to hole of the pit from ivhich you are dag out. 
'*Look uuto AbraJiam your father and to Sara that bore you: for I called him alone, attd blessed him, and viultipUed him."—Isaias, u:l,2. 
In forceful and graphic language the pages of Revelation insist on the tremendous importance attached by God to filial piety. Holding first place among the Divine laws governing man's relation with his fellowmen is that which requires him to honor his father and his mother, and among the Ten Commandments it is the only one to whose observance a special re­ward is explicitly attached, that of length of days. Again and again we see God's blessing bestowed upon it as in the case of Sem and Japheth while his curse falls on those like Cham in whom it is lacking. Clothed with similar sacredness are man's obligations toward those whom God has used to communicate to him supernatural life and favors. 
Today, as we gather to celebrate the centenary of the founding of the Congregation of Holy Cross, it is filial piety which prompts us to look to the rock whence we are hewn and to the hole of the pit from which we are dug out, for the founder of a Religious Institute, to which God has granted the supreme grace of Papal approval, holds the place of. father and mother, of Abraham and Sara, to the society he founded. 
The University of Notre Dame is but a branch of the tree of Holy Cross which Basil Anthony Moreau planted and watered with his tears and blood. Your esteemed president. Father John O'Hara, in a spirit of filial piety invited me to briefly study with you the work of Basil Anthony Moreau, Founder of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross. 
One hundred years ago, March 1, 1837, Basil Anthony Moreau, priest of the diocese of Mans, France, founded the Congregation of Holy Cross by uniting the Auxiliary Priests of Mans, founded by himself, to the Brothers of St. Joseph, founded by Father James Dujarie, also of the diocese of Mans. In addition to the sanctification of its members, the work of the new Institute was mis­sionary and educational. The first educational institution of the Congre­gation was founded at Le Mans and consecrated to the Mother of our Di­vine Redeemer, under the title Notre Dame de Sainte-Croix. This was the first Notre Dame of the Congregation of Holy Cross, the Mother of Notre Dame du Lac whose sons we are proud to be. It was Notre Dame de Sainte-Croix, in the city of Mans 80 miles to the west of Paris, that gave our beloved Father Sorin and his six brothers companions to America. 
The zeal of the Founder of Holy Cross could not be confined to any one nation. There was nothing local or provincial about the soul of Moreau. His love of souls, like that of the Divine Master and Model em­braced all peoples regardless of na­tion or race. It inflamed all who came under its influence and so, in 1840, three short years after Moreau founded the Congregation of Holy Cross, we find his sons at work in Africa. A year later they are in Indiana. In 1847 they enter Canada; India in 1852. It is well for us today in the midst of this celebration at Notre Dame, Indiana, to remind our­
The Apostolic Delegate Pontificates are, left to right, Father George Marr, Moore and Father Francis Wenninger. 
selves that but for the foreign mis­sion spirit of Father Moreau there never would have been a University of Notre Dame. It was the foreign mission spirit which prompted him to sacrifice Father Sorin and his six brother companions though they were badly needed by the struggling Col­lege of Notre Dame de Sainte-Croix, just as it was the same spirit which prompted the Founders of Notre Dame du Lac to leave home and country that they might save souls in the wilds of Indiana. 
The first twelve years of Father Moreau's priestly life were passed as a professor in the seminary of Le Mans, teaching successively philosophy, theology, and Holy Scrip­ture. During this time he was called upon by his bishop to help the Chris­tian Brothers of Le Mans, and to cooperate with his beloved and es­teemed friend Father Dujarie, in his important and difficult task of found­ing the Brothers of St. Joseph of Euille-sur-Loire. As a consequence Father Moreau became thoroughly acquainted with the educaHonal prob­lems of the day. 
Though he was essentially the product of the cultural course, tradi­tional throughout Christendom for so 
at the Centenary Mass. Assisting him Father Henry Glueekert, Father Philip 
many centuries as also its defender at all times, his alert mind was keen­ly alive to the discoveries and prog­ress being made in the field of sci­ence. He became thoroughly con­vinced, as a consequence, that the intellectual training given to semin­arians must be deepened and widened if the priesthood was to escape the reproach, more or less justifiable in his day, of being ignorant of science. So strong was this conviction, that he exerted every eifort to persuade his superiors to require all seminarians to study the physical sciences during their years of philosophy. This nec­essary and useful innovation was ef­fected to Father Moreau's satisfac­tion in 1835. It is of interest to remark that the first professor of physics in the Le Mans seminary was a layman, Thomas Cauvin, a brilliant physicist and personal friend of Father Moreau by whom he had been won back to the practice of his religion. 
Better Scientific Training 
Out of his conviction of the need for better training for ecclesiastics was bom the desire to create a soc­iety of priests, learned in both the sacred and profane sciences, and able as a consequence to raise the level of teaching in the seminaries and col­leges of the diocese. This desire Father Moreau submitted to his Or­dinary, Bishop de la Myre, as early as 1825. Later he presented the same plan with some important additions concerning missionary work, to Bish­op de la Myre's successor. Bishop Carron. 
In 1833, he laid the foundations of this useful institution by sending three ecclesiastics to Paris with the agreement of his bishop to follow there the public courses of the Sor­bonne and to take their academic de­grees. From his own moderate re­sources and with what financial help he could beg, he defrayed their expenses. 
Inspiration From Founder 
Let us pause this morning, as we gather in the most famous of all our schools, and take inspiration from him who is not only our Founder but the father of our best educational traditions. Let us take inspiration from this young priest so enamored of scholarship, so convinced of its im­portance in sa\ing souls, so eloquent in pleading its cause, that, triumph­ing over all opposition, he converts his bishop to his views and incorpor­ates the study of the physical sciences in the seminary program over a cen­tury ago; let us take inspiration from this young priest who, at the early age of 34, is so thoroughly convinced of the need of specialization and post­graduate work that he succeeds in detaching three priests from the Di­ocese of Le Mans and sends them to the Sorbonne, with money begged and borrowed from his friends. 
What wisdom in the words of His Holiness when he advised religious "to take pattern after their Father Founder and Lawgiver if they would become sure and abundant sharers in the graces which are bound up with their vocation. Nor will they go astray as long as they walk in the footsteps of their Founder!" 
At the same time that God was thus leading the seminary professor to found a societj' of priests trained in the sacred and profane sciences and destined to teach in preparatory seminaries and colleges, He was pre­paring him for another remarkable apostolate in the field of education, the ti-aining of the teaching Brother. 
As early as 1822, that is, a year after his ordination. Father Moreau preached the first annual retreat of the Brothers of St. Joseph, founded by Father James Dujarie, the zeal­ous cure of Euille-sur-Loire, in the Diocese of Le Mans. From that time Father Dujarie frequently called on Father Moreau to help him in the important task of farming the Broth­ers of St. Joseph to the religious and intellectual life. Several times Father Moreau preached the Brothers' re­treat; frequently he gave them con­ferences on the religious life and individual spiritual direction. He thus came to know at first hand the religious, intellectual, legal, and fin­ancial problems connected with the governing of an Order of teaching Brothers. 
Becomes Brothers* Director 
In 1835, Bishop Bouvier and Fath­er Dujarie requested Father Moreau to become the director of the Brothers of St. Joseph. Old age and ill health prevented Father Dujarie from con­tinuing in that position. The h?lp so generously given to Father Dujarie by Father Moreau from 1822 until 1835, the resulting experience and the knowledge of the work and its problems made Father Moreau Fath­er Dujarie's logical successor. 
It was in 1835 that Father Moreau founded his Society of Auxiliary Priests and accepted the direction of the Brothers of St. Joseph. Two years later, in 1837, by a fundamental pact the two organizations pooled their spiritual and material interests, to form the .A.ssociation of Holy Cross. Under God's providence this union deepened with time until 20 years later, in 1857, Rome approved as constituting one Congregation the priests, once known as the Auxiliary Priests of Mans, and the Brothers, once known as those of St. Joseph. The priests were to be known as Sal­vatorists of Holy Cross, and the Brothers as Josephites of Holy Cross. 
It was this Institute which made Notre Dame possible. 
Father Sorin Comes 
It was in 1839, two years after the foundation of Holy Cross, that Fath­er Moreau, in answer to the urgent request of His Excellency Celestine de la Hailandiere, first Bishop of Vincennes, sent Father Edward Sorin and his brother companions to found the University of Notre Dame. It was an heroic sacrifice, a sacrifice which not a few members of the Congrega­tion in France condemned, for were not priests and brothers badly needed at Notre Dame de Sainte-Croix, then but two years old? In Father Mor­eau's first letter to Father Sorin in America, dated October 19, 1841, we read: "Oh, how anxious I was to have some news of you, worthy and well-beloved confrere,- and how happy I am to have at last heard from you in New York! Oh, how far away from us you now are! More than ever I feel the loss which I imposed on my­self when I gave you to -America! . . . Farewell, good and worthy confrere, and let us be all for God alone through Mary and Joseph. Pray for him who is so completely and so deep­ly your affectionate and devoted friend, B. Moreau." From the day when Moreau gave Sorin to America until his resignation in 1866, he spared neither men nor money in his efforts to make Notre Dame a reality. Again and again and again he sends to America priests, brothers and sis­ters he had trained and educated, equipping them, paying their passage and loading them -with useful articles for struggling Notre Dame. Never did Sorin cry in vain to Moreau for help. We are not surprised, there­fore, that in 1860, Father Sorin writes to Father Moreau begging him to will to the University of Notre Dame his right hand. This hand Father Sorin wished to place in the cemetery where the mortal re­mains of the priests and brothers of Holy Cross were to rest. His letter 
reads: " It is our hope to one day place in the community cemetery the venerable hand which guided their eyes and their step to the New World which signed their obediences for the vasts forests of America, and which for more than 20 years has never ceased to support, guide, protect, de­fend, bless, feed and clothe them. 
Letters From Father Sorin 
"It is this venerable hand which they desire to see raised above their mortal remains as a hand which blesses and protects them still. It is to this same hand that they would have their successors come from gen­eration to generation to learn that the very same hand which founded Holy Cross likewise founded Notre Dame du Lac and that it continues 
(Continued on Pace 254) 


The Association's Year 
The presidency of the Alumni As­sociation of Notre Dame is a great honor. 
And I am of course grateful for the confidence of the members of the Association who entrusted this high office to me during the year just past. 
But as this year closes I have sev­eral observations which I hope may make due impression upon you and upon my successors in office. 
The honor inherent in the presi­dency still pei-sists. In fact it has been magnified by the achievements of the Association. But by the very fact of these achievements, the brow upon which the presidential laurels rest must bear its quota of adminis­trative perspiration. 
We knew that Art Hughes had done a splendid job by contributing freely of his time. And we knew that this was not possible for all of us who would succeed him. In the beginning I looked forward to a job whic h distance and circumstances would probably not permit me to handle with anji:hing like comparable effect. 
Job Seeks the Man 

But I found that the job of presi­dent of the Alumni Association does not rest on the campus any more, waiting for its incumbent to take it or leave it. It comes after you, to either seacoast, in the various guises it has assumed itself, and through the formidable campus agents it now permanently employs, Messrs. Arm­strong and Dooley. 
So I gave up, and I took stock in this Association of ours. And I say "ours" because I found that it is not possible to set up and isolate an alumni association. It is essentially the loyalty and the activity of the alumni who compose it, and only as these function can you expect the as­sociation itself to function. The Alumni Office on the campus is an invaluable stimulus and a necessary machine for the Association, but in my close connection with its workings this year I have realized that it de­
By William E. Cotter. ' 13 

President Cotter Repdrts on Manifold Activities of Alumni Association in 1937-38; Dwells on Expanding Program. 
(An Address at the Alumni Banquet) 

pends not only on your financial sup­port, but on your Club and Class and individual manifestations for its pro­gram. 
Much of what I have had to say to you this year has dealt with the finan­cial structure of the University and the place of the alumni in it. The annual report shows that your re­sponse, in the face of adverse eco­nomic conditions has been favoi-able. 
Certainly I do not propose to close that chapter of the Association's book. I have •ftTitten the first sentence in an essential introduction to the story of any university's progress. 
But I would like to review here at this close of the 70th year of the As­sociation a few of the activities we are prone to take for gi'anted. 
How many of you realize that in the Alumni Office, in the various files, there are some 40,000 cards contain­ing the names and addresses of grad­uate and non-graduate Notre Dame men. These the Office is constantly attempting to bring and keep up to date. 
An additional 9,000 names are kept 
WILLIAM E . COTTEK 

in geographical order on addresso­graph machinery of the Association, used for mailing the ALUMNUS, the football ticket applications, and other literature. In this complicated ma­chinery there are from 300 to 400 changes necessary each month. 
More than 1,000 alumni visit the campus each year, most of whom naturally stop in the Alumni Office. 
Work on Magazine 

Editing and mailing the ALUMNUS from 7 to 9 times annually occupies a large portion of time, since the magazine goes to 9,000 alumni, and tries to represent as many of them as possible in each issue. If you are familiar with other magazines, in this field, you will realize the amount of correspondence and editing necessary to bring about the large volume of personal news appearing in each issue. 
The Alumni Office must contact and attempt to stimulate and organ­ize a nation-wide, even international, network of 90 alumni clubs. This in itself is a task of no mean pro­portions. 
Hardly a project of the University is launched without an alumni inter­est. It would be difficult I imagine for Jim Armstrong and Bill Dooley to estimate the time spent in com­mittee meetings and other activities attending these projects. 
Contacting new students has pro­vided an active outlet for the Asso­ciation in recent years. The Alumni Office is naturally the clearing house for suggestions to alumni, and for the contacts with new students when they have been effected. The Association edits the .popular "Notre Dame Men," the illustrated booklet for such con­tacts. Many prospects, their parents, school parties, speakers, visitin g school officials or. classes, and other persons affecting this field have to be met or arranged for by the Alumni Office. This includes an active cam­pus guide program during the school year and the summer months, em­ploying from two to a dozen .Notre 
Dame students during its history to date. 
This all sounds, I realize, like an inventory, and perhaps it is. I am turning back to you an Association which my own experience leads me to believe is not nearly so well known to you as it should be. 
Many of you faithfully filled out and returned an interesting question­naire sent out this year by the Alum­ni Office. It is the basis for a ven­ture into the difficult but very valu­able field of placement. Did you know that the Alumni Office has con­ducted a survey of the Class of 1938, seeking to find out how many of the new Class are unemployed, what their talents are, where they wish to locate, and other data of vital importance to these new members of the Associ­ation. 
You may have thought that the other side of your questionnaire was just printed to use the space. But I am told that the results were very in­teresting, and that if financial sup­port permits, this survey of your views on the ALUMNUS may result in a much better book in the near future. 
Did you know that the reason the Class of 1938 is not with us tonight is because the .Alumni Office con­sulted the Class officers and an-anged a Senior-Alumni banquet which 500 attended on May 16, and at which Father O'Hai-a, the Class president and, batting for me, -4rt Hughes spoke. And four other past presi­dents of the Alumni -Association at­tended, together with University ad­ministration officials and our Hono­rary Association Pi-esident, Father Bums. 
Do you know that the Notre Dame Association is kept actively in con­tact with the American .4.1umni Coun­cil and the National Catholic Alumni Federation by the members of the -Alumni Office staif. That Notre Dame stands high in these professional alumni groups is attested by the fact that Art Hughes is the national pres­ident of the Catholic group and Jim Armsti-ong a member of the impor­tant aims and policies committee of the American Alumni Council, as well as a vice-president of the Catholic Federation. 
This isn't all. There are the thou­sand and one details. There is activ­ity such as the legal directory. There is the listing of such groups as the sons of alumni. There are the lists for the Club and Class officers, who never seem to have permanent files I am told. 
And I suppose if I had -Armstrong and Dooley up here prompting me this talk could go on all night. 
You begin, however, to see now 
Class officers and reunion chairmen 
that my year of driving on the need for financial support of the Univer­sity, and by implication our own part of it, was not the obsession of an un­balanced mind, but rather the feeling that so many acti\'ities, highly desir­

Hold Ninth Annual Club Council 
Numerous Topics Considered; Plans Laid for N e x t Y e a r 
The Ninth Annual Council of Local -Alumni Clubs met in the court room of the Law Building on Saturday, June 4, at 1 P.M. Attendance was representative, but far from a reas­onable objective. The Association, and the Club representatives who at­tended, are unanimous in impressing the value of this annual clearing house of Club ideas upon all Clubs that could possibly have a delegate present. Fourteen Clubs were on hand, which is, of course, the basis for a very interesting discussion, but obviously too small a proportion of the 90 Clubs existing. Next year, the tenth anniversary of the Council, the -Association hopes for 100 percent. That's a long jump, but the notice is hereby served. 
Let j'our imaginations fill in be­tween the lines on this summary of the discussion by topics: 
The Directorj' of the Chicago Club . . , the capacity Retreats of the Cleveland Club, now forcing that Club into a three-retreat program to handle the numbers . . . the powerful civic influence of the numerically small Denver Club, resulting in spe­cial trains to Notre Dame from that distant city for football games last Fall and the coming season, among other things . . . the comprehensive program of the New York Club, a model for the larger Clubs in itself, and particularly successful in its real­
able for all of us, hinge on that sup­port. It all boils down to an adaptation of an old fundamental of philosophy 
— know thy Association; know thy University. 
ization of a sound scholarship plan which had three boys at Notre Dame in the year just ended. 
The all-Catholic College relations established by the Notre Dame Club of Harrisburg . . . the broad program of the New Jersey Club, including the issuing of a quarterly bulletin of interest and powerful Club influence . . . the success of the Joliet Club in setting up attractive Clubrooms for a comparatively small group . . . the project of the Rochester (N.Y.) Club in filming all its events for a lining library of Club history . . . the beau­tiful Mother's Day observance of the Springfield (111.) Club, which opens participation to the wives and moth­ers of the members. . . . 

Club officers will hear more of this in a special printing of the Council minutes. 
Placement, which must become a permanent part of the -Association program, and which looks to the Clubs as a major factor in its success, was presented to the Council by the Alumni Secretary. 
The Council does not affect the rugged individualism of the Clubs, but merely permits newer Clubs to profit from the experience and guid­ance of the older organizations, and the smaller Clubs to grow. 
Don't forget the 10th Council, on Saturday, June 3, 1939. 
at the '28 ten-year party. Left to right, 
are Howard Phalin, Louis Buckley, Willard Wagner, John Frederick, Andy Boyle and Joe Griffin. 
Athletic Board Alters Ticket Allotment 
Difficulties Arising From Grovrth of Alumni Associa­tion Result in Changing of Regulations for Distri­bution; New Rules Should Strengthen Alumni Section 
A LL of the following data is impor­
•^^ tant to you. 
For the past several years, Notre Dame has continued to enjoy popular favor in the patronage of football games, to the extent of one or more annual sell-outs. 
Notre Dame men have been in­formed from time to time and must certainly be conscious individually of the benefits to Notre Dame which have accrued from this favor. 
During this time, the Athletic As­sociation, and the Alumni Association, have tried to continue the alumni privileges accorded in the distribu­tion of tickets. 
The numbers of alumni have, how­ever, the Athletic Board of Control decided in a Commencement meeting, outgrown the system used to this time. The result has been a defeat­ing of the very purposes of the privi­leges. 
Since 1926, when the present Graduate Manager of Athletics and the present Alumni Secretary as­sumed their offices, the number of alumni entitled to the alumni privi­leges in football tickets has tripled. 
So the Board of Athletic Control has decided that aiumni preference in the distribution of football tickets shall be reduced to four, rather than eight as has been the custom. 
The primary purpose of this deci­sion is to restore the Alumni Section at football games. Alumni complaints of the non-alumni nature of this sec­tion have been instrumental in the investigations and the decision. 
Alumni will be accorded the privi­lege of ordering additional tickets outside the alumni section so that the number of tickets available to the alumnus will not be changed. 
The public, having practically no access to sideline seats for the Notre Dame games, has utilized every alum­ni contact. For example, in the Army game, many alumni far from New York, exercise their privileges of 
THE 1938 REGUUTIONS FOR FOOTBALL TICKETS 
1.
 Ticket applications for the 1938 footba]] gaznes will be mailed July 20. THE SALE OF TICKETS OPENS AUGUST 1. 

2.
 Applications will be mailed to all alumni on the ALUMNUS mailing list, at the address used in that list. If you have not received your blanks by August 1, notify the Alumni Office. 

3.
 The applications are print­ed expressly for alumni, with the word ALUMNI across one end. These are the only blanks which receive checking for alumni preference, so use them. 

4.
 Alumni w^hose dues for the year 1938-39 are paid (pay­able as of June 1, 1938) will receive preference in the allot­ment of FOUR TICKETS each until September 15, OR UNTIL ALL TICKETS HAVE BEEN SOLD FOR A GIVEN GAME. In the nature of Notre Dame's business relations with other in­stitutions on the schedule, it is impossible to guarantee filling of orders for a preferred group after an announced sell-out. 

5.
 Again this year, at least two games promise to exhaust the capacity of the stadia in which they will be played. Alumni, desiring preference, are therefore urged to order their tickets as soon as the blanks are received. 

6.
 Alumni may have general public application forms upon request for their own use or those of friends, or may send in the names of such friends who will be sent the forms direct. (This latter practice has saved many alumnt time, expense, and embarrassment. 

7.
 Season ticket forms for the home games have been mailed. If alumni v^ho have not received such blanks are inter­ested in this ticket, which does not carry any alumni prefer­ence, forms may be secured from the Athletic Association, Box 71, Notre Dame, Ind. 



purchasing tickets for friends in New York. While this is a legitimate pro­cedure, the allotment of eight tickets obviously fills the sideline seats at an early date with a crowd which can­not exceed 10 percent actual alumni. 
In addition to the concentrating of the alumni section by the reduction of tickets allotted in this section, the Athletic Board %sks that alumni who purchase seats in this section confine them to the use of themselves and their immediate families. 
Those who are familiar with cus­toms of the large Eastern schools re­alize that this request is only a modi­fied form of their practices in this regard. 
Before the above decision was made the Athletic Board conducted a survey of some of the larger institu­tions whose teams, like our own, draw heavily, and who have large and in­terested alumni. 
Three West Coast Schools allow only four tickets to alumni. 
Three Big Ten Schools have no alumni preference. 
One Big Ten School allows alumni two tickets. 
One Big Ten School reserves the right to fix a limit for any game. 
Four Eastern Schools vary from two to four tickets for alumni as the demand for the particular game in­dicates. 
No school contacted allotted more than four tickets on alumni prefer­ence. 
You can see from the above that Notre Dame has been very slow in adapting the system of distribution to the increase in the number of alumni. 
Figures indicate that the general public has practically no access to sideline seats for Notre Dame games, even in the Notre Dame Stadium. But readjustment in allotment is designed primarily to eliminate the inequality which has existed between the alum­nus ordering on the first day of sale, and the alumnus ordering two or three weeks later. 
234 The Notre Dame Alumnus June. 1938 
UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS . « « 
"DEFORE a large audience of some 
of the world's greatest scientists. Dr. Harlow Shapley, of Harvard University, revealed at Notre Dame for the first time a new super galactic world with already a definite census of 300,000 new galaxies. Dr. Shap­ley, recognized as the world's greatest living astronomer, made known his recent discoveries at a public lecture on May 2 during the Symposium on the Physics of the Universe and the Nature of Primordial Particles held at Notre Dame on May 2 and 3. 
To give a visual idea of the vast­ness of the heavens Dr. Shapley showed on a screen recent photo­graphs made of the new galaxies at the Harvard observatories in South Africa and at Cambridge. Explain­ing his recent findings Dr. Shapley said: 
"The earth'n galaxy is but a small subdivision of the system of stars as a galaxj-. Hitherto only about 50,000 galaxies have been catalogued. But at Har\-ard we have been taking a census of the meta-galaxy—-meaning, all the galaxies in the'universe—and this census has already revealed 300,000 new ones and calculations show that before our survey is com­pleted an additional 300,000 galaxies will be disclosed." 
This census reveals that there is no uniformity between the star popula­tion of the galaxies in the southern and the northern skies but that the southern skies have five times as many galaxies as the northern skies. This finding desti-oys the basis of the chief arguments of those scientists who have opposed Canon Georges Lemaitre's theorj' of the exploding universe. 
In a technical lecture delivered on May 3 in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering Professor Wil­liam D. Harkins, of the University of Chicago, spoke on: "The Heat of the Stars and the Building of Atoms in the Universe." 
"The temperature of the sun," Pro­fessor Shapley pointed out, "may be assumed as being about 40,000,000 degrees. If v.-e kept the sun hot by the burning of coal it would be nec­essary to supply seven million billion tons of coal every second. . With nu­clear combustion only 200 million tons of hydrogen per second are used in the heating." 
In a public lecture on Monday afternoon. Dr. Arthur H. Compton, of the University of Chicago and re­cipient of the Nobel prize in physics in 1927, discussed the possible origin of the mysterious cosmic rays whose power of penetration is such that they could pass through a steel or platinum wall a hundred yards in thickness. He spoke on, "Whence Cosmic Rays?" 
Dr. Carl D. Anderson, of the Cali­fornia Institute of Technology and a Nobel prize winner in 1936, delivered the final public lecture of the sym­posium on "The Basic Constituents of Matter." 

Other eminent scientists who pre­sented papers during the symposium were: Dr. Gregorj' Breit, of the Uni­versity of Wisconsin, noteworthy for his recent discoverj* of new primor­dial forces. Professor Manuel S. Val­larta, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technolog}', authority on the cos­mic ray particles. Canon Georges Lemaitre, distinguished ^•isiting pro­fessor at Notre Dame, and famed as the founder of the theory of the ex­panding universe, and Professor J. 
F. Carlson, of Purdue University, brilliant young theortetical physicist. 
Dr. Arthur E. Haas, professor of physics at Notre Dame, who an-anged the symposium, and Dr. Eugen Guth, also of Notre Dame, both presented technical papers on different phases of the primordial particles. 
In addition to the scientists pre­senting papers scholars from colleges and universities throughout the coun­try attended the sessions and partici­pated in the discussions which fol­lowed the lectures. 
rriHOMAS TIERNEY, of St. Rita's 
High School, Chicago, won the fourth annual Wrangler - sponsored Notre Dame Oratorical Contest on April 3 and was, in consequence, awarded the Joseph P. McNamara trophy presented each year by Joseph 
P. McNamara, '29, Indianapolis. This year for the first time the contest was extended to high schools outside In­diana. 
John Lipinski, of Catholic Central High School, South Bend, won second place and the trophy for the leading Indiana orator. Nineteen high schools from 13 cities in Illinois and Indiana participated in the contest. Professor Francis E. Moran, '27, spoke at the banquet held on April 2 in honor of the young orators. 
TTIGHLIGHTING the 1938 debate 
-^ seasoji were the wins of the var­sity negative team over Princeton, April 7, and Holy Cross, April 20. 
These two debates wound up one of the most successful seasons a debate squad has ever enjoyed at Notre Dame. 
Under the direction of Professor William J. Coyne, '27, associate pro­fessor of speech and director of debat­ing, the negative team, composed of Charles Osbom and Tom Mulligan, amassed a record of particular merit, winning 13 out of 17 debates against some of the best teams in the coun­try. The afiirmative team, Frank Fitch and Al Funk, won 10 out of 15 debates for the year. Besides these debates the "A" squad engaged in seven non-decision debates. 
Most prominent of the tournament victories was the meet at North Man­chester, Indiana. In that particular tournament the "A" and "B" squads won 18 out of 22 debates. Particu­larly good was the accomplishment of the "A" negative team, which won six out of six debates against such teams as Purdue, Bowling Green, Illinois Normal, Hillsdale, Manchester, and Wayne. 
The Manchester tournament was followed by a number of non-decision debates and then the tournament of the Delta Sigma Rho at the Univer­sity of Wisconsin. Again the orators swept through to a gratifying victory with the team of Osbom and Mulli­gan once more winning all of their debates. 
Also worthy of mention is the work of the "B" squad. The affirmative team of Parks and Williams lost but one debate out of five, while the nega­tive team of Colgan and Crandell were winning three of their five encounters. 
This fine work on the part of the "B" team helped to swell the total of victories until they reached the imposing number of 30. 
The members of both squads were loud in their praises of their coach. Professor Coyne. His intelligent guid­ance and determined eflForts inspired the debaters themselves to their fine record, they said. 
T\R. THEODOR JUST, associate 
professor of biology at Notre Dame and editor of the American Midland Naturalist, and Miss Mary McGarry, associate professor of bi­ology and home economics at St. Mary's, Notre Dame, were married in New York City on June 11 by Father Francis Wenninger, C.S.C, dean of the College of Science. 
June, 1938 
PROFESSOR HENRY C. STAUN­•*• TON, of the Department of Eng­lish, was elected president of the Indiana College English Association at the association's annual conference held at Manchester College, North Manchester, Indiana, on May 13 and 
14. Notre Dame was represented at the conference by Professors Andrew 
T. Smithberger, David L. Campbell, Pence, as well as by Professor Staun­ton. 
QELECTED DRAWINGS of Notre *^ Dame architectural students in the field of religious architecture formed a part of an exhibit held at Beloit College, Beloit, Wisconsin, in early June, it was announced by Pro­fessor Francis W. Kervick, head of the Department of Architecture. 
The exhibit, comprised of student work in religious architecture from all parts of the country, was a fea­ture of a general conference of Con­gregational and Christian churches conducted at the college. 
rPEACHEES of Latin and Greek 
-*• gathered at Notre Dame and St. Mary's on May 7 for the fifth an­nual meeting of the College Classical Teachers of Indiana. 
Rev. Peter E. Hebert, C.S.C, head of the Department of Classics at Notre Dame, presided at the morning session. Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C, professor of Latin, read a paper on "A Favorite Line in Latin Poetry," and Rev. Thomas A. Kelly, C.S.C, associate professor of Greek, discussed "St. Basil and Pagan Lit­erature." 
•p^R. THOMAS C POULTER, sec­
ond in command on the second Richard E. Byrd expedition to the South Pole, enthralled a capacity audience in Washington Hall on April 20 as he discussed the expedition in its human, as well as in its scientific, aspects. The lecture was presented under the auspices of the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chem­ical Society. 
TV/TYLES SULLIVAN, director of ^'^ dramatics at Notre Dame in the late 90's, died in Chicago on March 28, according to word later received on -the campus. Mr. Sullivan had been a prominent Shakespearean ac­tor before coming to Notre Dame and at one time was the leading man for the famous Madame Helena Mod­jeska. 
•pELICS of the Civil War in the •••*' museum of the University went on exhibit in late June in the University library in commemoration of the 75th 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
anniversary of the Battle of Gettys­burg. The display will coincide with the national encampment of the Grand Army of the Republic at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, July 1 to 3. 
Paul Wood's huge painting of Rev. William Corby, C.S.C, chaplain of the famed Irish brigade, conferring general absolution under fire on the dying and wounded soldiers the sec­ond day of the historic battle, centers the exhibition. 
As chaplain of the Irish brigade Father Corby was assisted by another former president of Notre Dame, Rev. James Dillon, C.S.C. Halls at Notre Dame are named in honor of those two soldier-priests. 
Two scarred flags represent the Union and Confederate forces in the Notre Dame collection. One is the tattered green and gold-inscribed em­blem of the Irish brigade used at Gettysburg. Presented by the citizens of New York to the brigade a year prior to Gettysburg, the flag origin­ally commemorated the battles fought at Antietam an d Chancellorsville. Battle-worn also is the Confederate flag. 
A group of swords is another inter­esting item in the exhibit. Original owners were such historical military personages as Brig. Gen. W. S. Rose­crans, Maj. Gen. James Shields and Brig. Gen. Thomas F. Meagher. Along with these are displayed numerous oSicers' insignia, buttons, epaulettes and other miniature mementos of the. battlefields. 
The uniform worn by Gen. AVilliam Sherman on his memorable march to the sea is in the exhibit. Gen. 
Sherman's family lived on the Notre Dame campus during the civil war. Afterward the general was a Com­mencement speaker at the University. His two sons, William, Jr., and Thomas, were graduated from Notre Dame. 
The only G.A.R. post consisting entirely of priests and brothers was at Notre Dame. Its last surviving member . Brother Raphael, C.S.C., (James C. Maloy) died in 1921. The colors and records of the unique post are preserved at Notre Dame. 
AN ANTIQUE pistol of the type 
•^^used by the "gunmen" of King George III of England and during the American revolution, and other typical weapons of river boatmen, amblers, dragoons and military men of the last 100 years make up a collection of old firearms now on exhibition in the art gallery of the University. 
This collection of rare guns was presented to the University recently by Mrs. Florence Daly McBride, \vidow of Eugene R. McBride, Hart­ford, Connecticut; who was graduated in 1916. 
The King George gun is a .70 cali­ber flintlock Tower pistol. Indicating that it is a British-made gun are the British armory marks: "Tower" and the impress of the king's crown above the letters, "G. F." Tower means that the finished product was inspected at the Tower of London by the agents of the English government and declared by that mark to be a serviceable arm. The initials, G. R., are abbreviations for George Rex. 
Lay retreatants are pictured here grouped about the Calvary which is a 

part of the outside Stations of the Cross at Notre Dame. Two Retreats will be conducted on the campus this year, the first lasting from Thursday evening, August i, to Su7iday morning, August 7, and the second from Sunday evening, August 7, to Tuesday evening, August 9. Further infoiTnation and reservations can be obtained from Rev. Patrick Dolan, CS.C, director of the Lay Retreats, Notre Dame. Alumni are especially urged to attend. 
Murals Depict Campus Legends 
Art Students Plan and Execute Hall Project. 
Humorous legends of early days at Notre Dame will be preserved in pigment with the completion of a series of murals now being painted on the walls of the new rec­reation room in Cavanaugh Hall. Sophomore design students, under the direction of Francis J. Hanley, asso­ciate professor of art, have completed two of the murals, "The -A.nti-Cigar­ette League of 1912" and "Rockne's Bench Warmer." Murals of a more serious nature are being planned for Zahm Hall as the second feature of the two-year student project. 
The late Knute Kockne relates in his Autobiography the tale of the bench - warming football player who never got into a game. Rock kept stalling him off with the same stoiy: "I'm saving you." Came the last game in the player's career and he pleaded for the coach to send him in. Rock refused. After the game was over the player asked the coach what was the thing he was saving him for. "The Junior Prom," replied Rock as he walked off the field. This incident is depicted on the north wall of Cav­anaugh Rec. 
On the opposite wall appears Don DriscoU's sketch entitled "The .4nti­Cigarette League of 1912." Legend has it that a branch of the law class in that year was caught smoking in a downtown hotel by the prefect of discipline. -4s the use of tobacco was strictly prohibited in those days, they wer e dubbed the "-4nti - Cigarette League" and carried that name for several years. 
The project was inspired by Rev­erend John F. O'Hara' C.S.C., presi­dent of the University, in an effort to preserve in oil sketches the great tra­ditions of the Univei-sity which would othewise be quickly forgotten. As a practical problem in Design, accord­ing to Mr. Hanley, the project is one of the few examples in the country of collegiate decoration being done by the art students rather than by professional decorators. 
Elaborate preparations consisting of sketches, scale models, and actual size cartoon di-awings were made dur­ing the first part of the year. A contest was conducted, and all of the material was assembled in sketch form by the art students of the freshman and sophomore classes in Design. Don DriscoU, sophomore in Fine -A.rts, became chairman of the mui-al group upon winning this com­petition. 
-4nother mural showing Rockne as a youth engaged in a mythical marble championship dispute will be added. 
Professor Hanley directs students in preserving, on a jvall of Cavanaugh Hall rec room, the story of the "Anti-Cigarette League." 
June. 1938 
Scholastic Leaders Honored 

John K. Schemmer, Colby, Wiscon­sin, graduated as scholastic leader of his class with an average of 96.48 for his four years at Notre Dame, gave the valedictoi-y at the Class Day exercises, June 4. Chester Soleta, C.S.C., South Bend, read the class poem, and Leonard Skoglund, Chica­go, first string end on the football team last fall, gave the class oration. Soleta had a four-year average of 
95.78 and Skoglund an average of 93.68. 
During the Class Day exercises the following awards were made: 
Robert V. Mullen, River Forest, Illinois, was awarded the Meehan medal for English; Thomas Proctor, Elkhart, Indiana, the Breen medal for oratorj'; Richard M. Geri, Mani­towoc, Wisconsin, architecture medal; Robert J. Schultz, Oak Park, Illinois, Kervick gold medal for architecture; Joseph R. Thornburg, Union City, In­diana, Lehn and Fink medal for phar­macy; Paul H. Anderson, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Jeanne D'Ai-c medal for French; Charles A. Kolp, Canton, Ohio, Cervantes medal for Spanish; Francis A. Kroeger, South Bend, the Jacques medal for art. 
Cash awards for superior work in engineering, science, playwi-iting and journalism were presented to Nichol­as Lamberto, Chicago, the Sinnot Meyers burse for excellence in jour­nalism; Charles F. Osbom, Brooklyn, New York, the Msgr. Francis O'Brien prize for distinction in history; Ed­mond J. Bartnett, New Rochelle, New York, the William Mitchell memorial award for playwriting; Melvin E. Lambrecht, Merrill, Wisconsin, the Miles W. O'Brien prize for excellence in mechanical drawing. 
Edward W. Snell, Erie, Pennsyl­vania, the John O'Brien prize for shopwork; LawTence G. Hess, Hum-bolt, Kansas, the George L. and Mrs. William D. O'Brien prize for the e.x­cellence in chemistry; Charles M. Brown, Indianapolis, the Ralph Thom­as SoUitt prize in architectural de­sign; Robert T. Halbert, Weedsport, New York, the Gertrude S. SoUitt prize for excellence in architecture; Joseph F. Hennessey, VaUey Stream, New York, the Maurice Carroll prize in architecture; and John T. O'Con­nell, C.S.C., freshman oi-atorical prize. 
The Byron V. Kanaley prize for the senior monogram athlete ad­judged by the board of athletics to be "the athlete most exemplary as a student and as a leader of men," was awarded to Raymond J. Meyer, of Chicago, captain of the basketball team for two years. 
BY JOHN J. LECHNER. '37 

CAMPUS NOTES » » 
VALEDICTORY 
The class of 1938 experienced a Commencement week-end which gave the lie to the oft-repeated slander that there cannot be three consecu­tive Indiana spring days without rain. Proud parents gathered in the gymnasium to see their cum Imide Clarences and magna Mortimers re­ceive their degree in sultrj' solemnity. They heard a splendid Commence­ment address by Terence B. Cos-grove, '06, Los Angeles attorney, who pointed out that industry, rather than ability alone, is the essential attrib­ute for scholastic and business success. 
During the awarding of degrees we couldn't help but review our six happy years at Notre Dame and shed a silent tear over the broken friend­ships which gi-aduation does bring. Our ALUMNUS connection as campus columnist was anything but a chore and, if our occasional gleanings re­sulted in recreating for you your days at Notre Dame, we feel amply repaid. 
So — clutching at our waist (the gown which we rented was without a clasp at an essential place) we re­ceived our law diploma, and as we did so we said a mental farewell to Notre Dame as a student. But Notre Dame's loss is the St. Joe Valley club's gain, so everyone is happy about the whole thing. 
PRODIGAL RETURNS 
The campus had a Commencement visitor over the week-end to whom the Main Building and Sacred Heart church were new buildings. He was Mark Beatus, '70, of Memphis. It was the first time Mr. Beatus had seen Notre Dame in 68 years. At first he was convinced that his taxi driver had taken him to the wrong place, but he soon became acclimated and had an immensely happy week­end. 
V POP 
It seemed for a while this winter that Pop Farley's "Hi, Boy!" was go­ing to be missed by returning alumni but the "King" held court, as in for­mer years, in front of Sorin Hall dur­ing the Commencement week-end. Father Farley still has all his old pepper and his heart is as young as the most youthful freshman. At the dinner tendered graduating seniors on May 15 by the University a small bit of paper made its way from hand to hand to the speaker's table. "Pop Farley is in the back of the hall," it read, "we want him recognized." An observer outside the hall hearing the applause which greeted his name would have thought the Irish had just punched across a last-minute winning touchdown. 
V 

THE MONTH IN BRIEF 
The senior banquet, of which we have spoken, was a decided success both from a gastronomic, social, and speaking standpoint . . . The Modern­aires. University dance orchestra, played during the meal . . . Some of the boys forgot their banquet man­ners and passed the dishes for the first course down to the end of the table, as is done during a regular meal, but their banquet mates soon persuaded them to allow themselves to be served in style. . . . 
Art Hughes, as the principal speak­er, gave a swell speech, although that hardly comes under the classification of news . . . Senior class president John O'Connor, Indianapolis, Indiana, represented the seniors in a more than capable fashion, while Father O'Hara enhanced the program with his usual graceful brevity . . . Jim Armstrong, alumni secretary, acted as toastmaster. . . . 
NEW CROP 
Paul Hellmuth, Springfield, Ohio, will edit the Dome next year; Mark 
J. Mitchell, Chicago, Illinois, the Scholastic; and Fred Digby, New Or­leans, Scrip . . . Vince DeCoursey, Kansas City, Kansas, as managing editor will aid Mitchell, while Don Foskett, East Weymouth, Massachu­setts, and Bill Fay, Pittsburgh, Penn­sylvania, will act as sports and news editors, respectively . . . William Woemer, Louisville, and Chester So­leta, C.S.C., South Bend, snaffled the prizes for the best prose and poetry appearing in this year's Scrip . . . 
RECEPTION 
The Dome was well received . . . Plenty of well selected pictures . . . Remember June 3, 1937? .. . On that date Edward of Windsor married Wally . . . Edi Polz, Edward's former Austrian trainer, visited the campus and discussed phy. ed. trends with John Scannell, head of Notre Dame's Department of Physical Education. Bob Rodibaugh, Commerce junior, was elected president of the Notre Dame Villager's club in one of the organization's typical ding-dong elec­tions . . . The boys are calling Bob "El Shavedor" since he has a sum­mer job demonstrating an electric razor. . . . 
V TONES 
The Notre Dame Symphony orches­tra presented an original tone poem by George Sauter, Indianapolis, who was graduated in music this year . . . The Monogram Absurdities ran for four nights to packed houses . . . Funniest in years said the critics . . . Madeline Carroll, Myma Loy, and Carole Lombard are Notre Dame's three favorite actresses in the order named, according to a recent poll . . . Clark Gable, Spencer Tracy, and Cary Grant were the men most ad­mired . . . The 1938-39 senior class president is Dick O'Melia, Rhine­lander, Wisconsin, who has a twin brother, Don, in school . . . Notre Dame celebrated National Airmail Week with a special cachet. . . . 
NEWSBOY 
Lou Essey, Maxton, North Caro­lina, lost a wager when he attempted to outsell the star newsboy of a local paper . . . Lou had boasted of his prowess in a campus gabfest, but failed to come through when the con­test was arranged .. . A display of more than 2,500 handbills, books, magazines, and pamphlets, compris­ing anti-religious propaganda, was exhibited in the University Library under the auspices of the Religious Bulletin and the Alumni Association . . . Thomas P. Mulligan, Cleveland Heights, Ohio, Scott Reardon, Sioux Falls, South Dakota, William Brani­gan, Albany, New York, and Pierre de la Vergne, New Orleans, Louisi­ana, were selected by a committee of juniors for the Dome citations for the four graduating seniors most out­standing in the field of extra-curricu­lar activities . . . The Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, celebrated the an­
nual Memorial Day Mass at Notre Dame . . . Ennio Arboit, Oglesby, Illi-­nois, was named best all-around Italian-American athlete for 1937-38 by the national Italian-American civic league . . . Arboit was a right half in football, and pitched and played outfield in baseball .. . He captained the baseballers in his junior year . . . So long! . . . 
Yale Asks For a Dollar, or Great Oaks 
.1 Melodrama of College Finance, in Many Acts 
BY JAMES E. 
Time: All the time. Place: Every place. Scene: H'e hope not. 

(The reader is urged to rework this into dialogue as he conceives it, thus saving the author, himself, and prob­ably the Cause.) 
Great oaks from little acorns grow. Rome wasn't built in a day. Little drops of water, little grains 

of sand, etc. David and Goliath. And many others which seem to 
have sunk in our stream of conscious­ness, or whose authors refused re­print permission. . . 
From each of which could be de­rived long and weighty articles on LI\nNG ENDOWMENT. 
Perhaps the minds from which these gems were quarried foresaw our higher educational system. 
Perhaps they, too, had the problem of endowment, to vivify. 
At any rate, American colleges to­day are faced with the problem of securing large sums of money from a source consisting largely, and increas­ingly, of small sums of money. 
Some say the day of the large for­tune is over. Others say the large fortunes are concentrated in the hands of the few. 
In either case, the average college must depend on large numbers of small givers. And the history of giving to educational, philanthropic, and charitable enterprises in this country, while studded with the names of the few, is actually written with the dollars of the many. 
A priest came into the Alumni Of­fice the other day with a printed form from Yale, where he took graduate work. It o-xtlined Yale's great pro­gram, and the obvious needs accom­panying it. The significant thing was this, — it said, "If one dollar is all you can send, SEND THAT DOL­LAR." 
This doesn't mean that Yale is 

. poverty stricken. It doesn't mean that Yale will not continue to work and hope for greater gifts. 
It just means that Yale, like all of us, recognizes the fundamental truth contained in the lead quotations of this article, together ^vith the fimda­mental truth that the average man cannot be a large contributor. 
Living Endowment, as a plan, was 

 ARMSTRONG, '25 
in stituted at Notre Dame largely through the eff'orts and the study of Frank H. Hayes, '14. The principle has been presented annually since, through the medium of the ALUMNUS and other literature. 
Living Endowment allows the aver­age man to participate in the finan­cial program of Notre Dame, •with a more significant part for him than he might otherwise realize. 
At the Alumni Banquet the Presi­dent of the University, Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., mentioned the future program of the University, which was outlined in summary in the Legal Directory. 
It consists, in part, and as present­ly conceived, of some twelve new buildings whose cost is estimated at five million dollars, and an endow­ment of approximately ten million dollars, to permit the proper utiliza­tion of the facilities. ' 
Fifteen million dollars, taken as a lump sum, by Notre Dame men, looks like the War debt, financially and philosophically. 
Let's see what Living Endo\vment does to it. 
The annual income on $15,000,000 — if it could be invested at 5% — would amount to $750,000. 
We have 9,000 alumni, a conserva­tive approximation, and an equal number of non-graduate Notre Dame men, — a potential in the Notre Dame family itself of 18,000 donors. 
If this 18,000 donors, by 1942, could have been approached to the extent of success (and we'll have a couple thousand more young alumni by that time) which would bring to the Uni­versity a total annual per capita gift of only $41.60, less than $4 a month, or less than a dollar a week, the great future program of Notre Dame would, in effect, be achieved •without going outside our alumni organization. 
In the series of articles presented by William E. Cotter, '13, as presi­dent of the Alumni Association, the reasons for giving to Notre Dame were brought out clearly. 
The little study presented above outlined a method, as presented some years ago by another president of the Association, Frank Hayes, '14. 
The article in this issue of the ALUMNUS describing the benefaction of Mr. Frank Lloyd, comptroller of 
1938 

WITH NOTRE DAME AUTHORS 
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, of the De­partment of Politics, is the author of the recently-published "The Rise and Decline of Marxism," a study of Com­munism, Naziism and the so-called Popular Front. For a previous book, "Hitler and the Christians," Dr. Gurian was expelled from Germany. He joined the Notre Dame faculty last fall. 
"The Big House of Mystery" is the title of a new book by Patrick H. Weeks, M.D., physician and psychia­trist at the State Penitentiary, Mich­igan City, and until recently a mem­ber of the Notre Dame faculty. The work is based upon Dr. Weeks' study of ten thousand crimes and criminals. Dorrance & Co. is the publisher. The cost is $2.00. 
Malcolm K. Hatfield, '27, St. Jo­seph, Michigan, judge of the probate court in Berrien County, is the author of a book, "Children in Court," re­cently published by The Paebar Com­pany, New York City, to sell for $2.00. It is a case study based upon Judge Hatfield's six year of experi­ence in the field of juvenile delin­quency. The cases are grouped about the agencies considered to be the most responsible such as the home, the church, the school, the community, the government. 
Alumni looking for reading matter for sons of grade and high school age can secure a Notre Dame touch from "Captain Johnny Ford," a novel by Brother Ernest, C.S.C, '25. The book is based upon the life and death of Joseph Ford, Indianapolis, who died during the school year 1930-31 in the beginning of a promising career at Notre Dame. A younger brother, John Ford, later entered Notre Dame, was graduated in 1937, and actually became Captain Johnny Ford, co-captain of one of Notre Dame's great basketball teams. The book can be purchased for $1, from the Notre Dame bookstore, Notre Dame, In­diana. 
the University, is a practical Exhibit A of the idea and of its execution. Put them all together and they spell ALMA MATER, as you want it 
— the greatest, to Notre Dame men, school in the world. 
And for the immediate projects, the Rockne and the Nieuwland Memorials, you can- think and act in this broad program of the Living Endowment. Five dollars, or ten dollars, each month for a year, while modest in it­self is the equivalent of a $60 or a $120 gift, which in the further inter­pretation of the Living Endowment is the equivalent of an endowTnent fund, working during the year, of $1,200 or $2,400. 
So remember David, the great oaks, the drops of -ivater, and Yale, but make the check out to Notre Dame. 
June, 1938. The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Report of the Executive Secretary 
June I. 1937, to June I, 1938 
by James E. Armstrong, '25 
MEMBERSHIP: 
A 34% increase in membership over the preceding year is the encour­aging feature of this phase of our report. In 1936-37 there were 1,829 paying dues. This year ending, the number jumped to 2,453. That the flesh is willing, though the pocket­book is still weak, is evident in the fact that some 500 of the members took advantage of the subscription appeal (?2) and the 1937 Class offer ($1), leaning encouragingly in many respects to the latter group. 
If we can hold and increase this number, and trust that there will be an effort to complete the ?5 annual dues, the budget trouble is obviously reduced almost to solution. 
Activity of the membership could best be gleaned from the news of the year in the Class and Club items of the ALUMNUS; the Retreats; the foot­ball specials; the record - smashing Universal Night, and similar com­mendable programs. 
THE ALUMNUS: 
The magazine had to do two re­grettable things to make ends meet for the year. One was to cut the number of issues to seven. The other was to drop some of the members who had indicated no interest, through the very practical channel of dues. Only those graduated before 1930, who had never paid dues, were dropped, but even that conservative step was sincerely regretted, as was the necessity for accepting the sug­gestion that the ALUMNUS be sent only to the Religious Houses of the Congregation and not to the individu­al members. If indications point to an improved statement next year, these steps may be eliminated. 
The Questionnaire gav e a few ideas of improvement for the maga­zine. We were happy in the Office to note a general approval of the book as it has been. But of course we can improve it, and will try to carry out the suggestions. Most of the suggestions require additional time and money. If you supply the latter, the staff will certainly try to supply the time. 
THE LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS: 
The Clubs now number 90. If we were striving only for numbers we could have passed the hundred-mark. But it is much more constructive and a much sounder item in this respect, to state that these 90 Clubs actually exist, and for the most part are ac­tively functioning in several phases of the Association's program. 
Club policies are being crystallized, and it is the hope of the Alumni Of­fice that the Tenth Anniversary of the Local Club Council, to be held at the 1939 Commencement, will see a very thorough outline of activities for the Club in the several general classifications of large, small, and sectional (covering more than one city). 
The Club programs this year ex­pressed a depth and a diversity which many larger schools with far more alumni might envy. A perusal of the Universal Night reports would jus­tify the entire program. But in addi­tion there were football specials; charitable and scholarship plans com­pleted; a growing number of inter­esting retreats, featuring a Rockne Memorial Retreat staged by the N.D. Club of Northern California, and a double-barrelled retreat in Cleveland, held two week-ends to handle the crowds and crowded on both to ca­pacity. 
As we suggested above, a book 
TREASURER'S REPORT 
June I, 1937, to June I, 1938 
Balance on hand June 1, 1937  ?  751.16*  
Receipts, June 1, 1937, to June 1, 1938: DuesLiving Endo\vmentAdvertising in ALUMNUSMiscellaneous Income (Subscriptions, interest, service charges, etc.)  9,957.00**  379.00***  927.29  272.00  
Total income for the year  $12,286.45  
* A Bill for some $1,200 was outstandins at the Ave Maria. ** A 17 per cent increase in amount over 1936-37.  

*•* Cf. Secretary's report for further comment. Several recent contributions (May) also not included in this report. 
E.\penditures June 1, 1937, to June 1, 1938: Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana ..? 978.74 
(ALUMNUS mailing, stamps, permit mail, return 
postage, parcel post, etc.) Office salaries Printing and engraving (ALUMNUS, cuts, station­
ery, bill forms, etc.) Travel (Clubs, conventions, etc.) — Office expenses (equipment, supplies, moving pic­
tures, advances for tickets, telephone, telegraph, 
advertising commissions, etc.) .. Dues, national alumni organizations 4,960.00 
3,835.71 681.70** 
1,407.16 50.00 

Total expenditures for the year _$11,?13.31 
Balance on hand June 1, 1938 ..?373.14* 
• There is still outstanding at the Ave Maria a bill of some $1,000. but relatively <rar position is improved, as we came through the year 1937-38 without increasing our debt to the University. 
*• Some S125 of this item is properly chargeable to the 1936-37 budget, but was not entered until after June 1, 1937. 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONC, '25, Secretary-Treasurer 

could be written, and ought to be, on Club activities. 
The new clubs joining the roster during the year were North Iowa, centered in Mason City, and Scran­ton, Pa. 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT: 
Not enough could be said in a vol­ume to cover the actual achievements represented by the 15th Annual Uni­versal Notre Dame Night, on April 
25. The alumni and friends at large heard a half-hour national hook-up through the facilities of the National Broadcasting Company, keyed about a campus program from the Univer­sity Gymnasium. 
One hundred local radio stations joined in local progi-ams varying from 5 minutes to a full hour, utiliz­ing indi^ndual and Club talents. 
Practically all of the Clubs held meetings of one kind or another, ^vith a new emphasis on the serious type of meeting which retains all of the enthusiasm of the old Nights, but adds new luster to Notre Dame in the communities wher e the meetings occur. 
Cooperation everj^where was excel­lent, and we can look forward to the continuation and growth of this mag­nificent Notre Dame tradition. 
LIVING ENDOWMENT: 
Because of the existence during the past year of new activities in the K o c k n e and Nieuwland Memorial campaigns, the Association did not stress the Li\'ing Endowment pro­gram. Some contribuKons came in, and there is evidence that the re­sponse for 1938-39 will exceed this materially. 
But the real significance of the alumni appreciation of the needs of Notre Dame and the value of even the small gifts is found in the pages ef the President of the University in the issues of the ALUMNUS. 
Cash gifts from alumni, not includ­ing several valuable gifts of other types, and not including anonjTnous gifts of possible alumni origin, amounted for the year (including the Rockne and Nieuwland acknowl­edgements) to $13,789.00, more than the total income of the Alumni Asso­ciation. So that, again, we have cause to be encouraged for the suc­cess of this general plan of alumni giving. 
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS: 
While much of the actual field work which accompanied the intro­duction of prospective student con­tacts into the Association program has been curtailed, the eifects of the work have been maintained through other channels. 

For example, correspondence has increased steadily with the school people, and with the alumni and Alumni Clubs in this regard. The illustrated "Notre Dame Men" has been re-issued with improvements and new developments listed. 
Primarily, and most eifective, the Clubs and indi\-idual alumni have been increasingly cooperative. 
To this phase of the Association's program we believe we can logically attribute the steady growth of enroll­ment since 1933. 
Particularly significant is the fact that on June 1, 1938, enrollment was 23% ahead of the enrollment on June 1, 1937, with the freshmen quota for 1938-39 more than % filled. In all probability this will mean closing of enrollment in the early summer. 
From the very beginning, we have stressed the idea that alumni partici­pation in contacting prospective stu­dents should emphasize the selection of representative students from the various areas. This idea has been most happily carried out, and it is this point which makes the program a permanent one, no matter how the number of students may compare, whether there is capacity or above. The many benefits to Notre Dame and to the Alumni -Association itself from this constant flow of selected students, from the Club territories especially, do not need elaboration. 
PUBLICATIONS: 
As announced last year, the Legal Director}' was published in the Fall of 1937. As we expected, some names were omitted through lack of data in the Alumni Office. And many names have since been added through professional changes, successful bar examinations, etc. 
Also, encouragingly, several be­quests have already been reported as listed in wills, and from the sug­gestions accompanj-ing the Directory we a n t i c i p a t e increasing remem­brance of Notre Dame among alum­ni and friends. 
Names have been published in the ALUMNUS to be added to the Direc­tory, as rapidly as we have received them. A substantial amount of busi­ness exchange has bee n reported through the use of this medium. 
"Notre Dame Men" was also is­sued, and has met with the same suc­cess throughout the year, as an intro­ductory booklet for schools and pro­spective students, which greeted its predecessor. 
AFFILIATIONS: 
James E. Armstrong attended the biennial convention of the National Catholic Alumni Federation in Bos­ton last October. At this Conven­tion the Notre Dame Secretary de­livered a paper on Catholic College Finances. Arthur J. Hughes, '11, was elected president of the Federa­tion for a two-year term and the Sec­retary was also elected a vice-presi­dent. Mr. Hughes is also president of the important Chicago Chapter of the Federation in which both -^m­strong and Bill Dooley have been active. 
William R. Dooley attended the 25th annual Convention of the Amer­ican Alumni Council held in Colum­bus, Ohio, in April. Notre Dame was the first Catholic College affiliated with this professional organization of alumni officers. Dooley and Arm­strong both attended the winter meet­ing of District V of the Council, held in Chicago in Januaiy. 
Both organizations above have re­paid our interest with very valuable suggestions regarding our work gen­erally, and with increased prestige for Notre Dame. 
SPECIAL FEATURES 1937-38: 
Deserving special mention, not pos­sible in the foregoing classifications. 
The Third -Annual Old-Timers Re­union, monogram winners between 1905-1910, gathered at Notre Dame on the week-end of the Southern Cal­ifornia game last Fall. As in the preceding years, the Reunion brought together many of the men famous in Notre Dame's sports annals, and the stimulus of the presence of these he­roes of yesterday bi-ought out one of the great games of the 1937 season against Southern California. The Old-Timers were guests of the St. Joseph Valley Club, the Univei-sity and the Athletic Association at the various events of the busy week-end. 
The President's Page in the ALUM­NUS resumed regular appearance and contributed a series of articles of vital importance to Notre Dame and Notre Dame men. 
"Spotlight Alumni" was another regular feature of the ALUMNUS dur­ing the year, bringing before the membership a varie d and distin­guished gallery of members in the days news. 
As a result of your ballots of a year ago, the 5-Year Reunion Plan was introduced and is functioning again at this Commencement. 
In conjunction with the office of the Comptroller, the Association con­tributed space in the ALUMNUS for the marketing of a special Notre Dame drinking glass, in behalf of a special President's Fund for deserv­ing students. 
As usual, the Alumni Office also extended active cooperation to the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley in the plans for the annual civic testimonial banquet to the foot­ball team sponsored by the Club. The Alumni Secretary was program chair­man for the event. 
The Alumni Office was also instru­mental in obtaining for the S.A.C., for an exhibit in the University Li­brary in May, the interesting Anti-God Exhibit of the Pro Deo Society of New York, collected largely through the efforts of a Notre Dame alumnus, John V. Hinkel, '28. 
In keeping also with its policy of emphasizing the happy blend of past, present and future at Notre Dame, the Alumni Office, and the ALUMNUS this year introduced a series of fea­tures on the third generation of Notre Dame men at school this year, and climaxed the series wth a list of Sons of Alumni, as far as the avail­able data permitted. Several regret­table omissions have already been discovered, proving that the bonds between the present and past Notre Dame are even stronger than we usually assume. 
The above features, together with the major regular events of the year, combined to crowd the records to a new high in activity, and a new high in achievement. 
The only contention of the Alumni Office, in the face of this activity and success, is that we are still just scratching the surface of our possi­bilities. 
FOR THE DECEASED ALUMNI 
June 1. 1937, to June J. 1938 

"Whereas God, in His wisdom, has during this past year taken from this life the alumni hereinafter listed, and 
"Whereas thes e members have served their Alma Mater with glory in their respective avocations, 
"Be it resolved that this Associa­tion extend its heartfelt sympathy to the relatives with promise of prayers that the same God in His mercy will be generous to their souls and grant them that eternal rest which we all so earnestly seek. 
"Be it further resolved that an ex­pression of the above be ivritten into the official records of the Alumni As­sociation and a copy sent to the be­reaved relatives." 
ArmstronR. Phil.. '16. ChiciiKO, 111. Attley, GeorKO. '10. River Forest. HI. Berra. Humbert A.. '15-'21, Murphysboro, III. Boscrt. Peter J., '32, Minot, North Dakota Bosse, John M., '77-'S2, Lima, Ohio Browne. Albert A„ 'SO-'So, Brownsville. Texas BurKel. Jos. M., 'Sl-'SS, So. ChicaKO Hts., HI. Cnpitell, Alfred J.. '35. Belmont, Mass. Carr, Harry W., '09, Peoria. III. 
Qair, John, '38, ChicaEO, 111. Cooper, John J., '32, Port Reading N. J. Dailey. Sr. Marj- Joseph, O.S.U., '22. Toledo, O. Gar\*an, Francis P., '36. Honorary, N. Y. City Hanley, Frank X., '99. South Bend, Indiana Holt. Albert P.. ex. 'OS. Milwaukee. Wis. Jackson, Earl W., •23-'24. South Bend. Ind. KavanauKh, Hon. Marcus A.. '05, Chicaso. III. Kenofick. Matthew J., '07, Michigan City, Ind. Locke. Lucicn P.. ex. '21. Greenwich, Conn. Lydon. Arthur W„ '17. Geneva, N. Y. Manix. Robert P., '29, Dayton, O, Marconi, GuKliclmo, '33, Honorary, Rome. Italy Mcintosh. John L., 'So-'SS, Sydney, Nebr. Mcanwell, Chas. Vincent, '15, Ypsilanti, Mich. 
Millett, Francis. '65-66, Gadsden. Ala. Miner, Wm. A.. '22, Endicott. N. Y. Morrissey, Wm. D., '24-'26, Cincinnati. O. Mott. Thomas D.. '95. Los Angeles, Calif. Murphy. Conley, ex. '28. Sbreveport. La. Murphy, Matthew J.. '76, Glen Ridse, N. J. O'Brien, Morsan J.. '20. Honorary. N. Y. City O'Hara. Herman B., '14, Irvinirton, N. J. Olcr, Sr. Clementine, S.C., '22, GreensburK, Pa. O'Meara, Thomas F.. '02, West Bend, Wis. O'Reilly, Most Rev. Thomas Charles. '09, 
Honorary, Scranton. Pa. Pace. Rt. Rev. Edward A., '10, Honorary, Washington, D. C. 
- Purcell, Joseph C . ex. '21. Kansas City. Mo. Rosalima, Sr., O.S.F.. '20-21. Manitowoc. Wis. Spearman, Frank H.. *17, Honoiary. Holly­wood, Calif. Sweeney, James F.. os. '67-'69. Butler. Pa. Teevens, John G,. '32, Newton Highlands, Mass. Tivnen. Bryan H.. '91. Mattoon. H. Toner. Dr. Jos. M., '00, San Francisco, Calif. Von Wonterghem, August A., *20, Kansas City, Kansas Walker, Samuel A., '95, Seattle, Wash. Walsh. Edward A.. Jr., '28. Meridcn, Conn. Walsh. James J.. '30. Brooklyn. N. Y. Winegardner. John Chas.. '37, Hillsboro, O. Yrisarri. Eugenio, '80-'83. Albuquerque. N. 
Mexico 
F. W . Lloyd Becomes N. D. Benefactor 
Living Endowment Principle Involved in 
$2,500 Gift to University; Monthly Pay­
ments Make Substantial Program Possible 
The University has announced the gift of $2,500 by Mr. F. W. Lloyd, comptroller of the University since 1932. 
Interesting to alumni is the method by which Mr. Lloyd has ai-ranged the gift, utilizing the principle of the Living Endowment plan which the Association has urged for members. 
Through a contract with the Fidel­ity Investment Association of Wheel­ing, West Virginia, Mr. Lloyd has named the University beneficiary for an income reserve contract. 
By the terms of this contract, pay­ment of $15 monthly for ten years and six months results in payment by the company, to the University as beneficiary, of $250 annually there­after for ten years. 
Thus, over a twenty-year period, by the payment of $1,890 in small in­stalments over the first ten-year per­iod, the University, in the second ten years, receives $2500 in ten annual instalments. The fund thus created may be devoted to current annual needs of the University, or allowed to accumulate to the full principal and used for some specific purpose as the benefactor of the University may designate. 
The performance of the contract is guaranteed by virtue of its life in­surance features, which provides for the insuring company's continuing the payments of the monthly instalments in the event of the decease of the insured. 
Mr. Lloyd deserves the gratitude of the University and its alumni, not only for his generous benefaction, but for this concrete example of how the' application of the principle of the Living Endowment can, with modest effort on the part of donors, result in substantial contribution to the devel­opment of Notre Dame. 
SONS OF ALUMNI 
As the editors of the ALUMNUS had anticipated, there were several omissions from the "Sons of Alumni" list in the May issue. With apolo­gies, the following additions, students in 1937-38, are presented: 
James H. Walsh, EG 1, son of William A. Walsh, '00, Yonkers, New York. John W. Eoach, Jr., CM 4, son of John W. Roach, '08, Muscatine, Iowa. Edwin H. Sommerer, Jr., CM 2, son of Edwin H. Sonunerer, '16, South Bend. . .-­
N. D. Observes Air Mail Week 
Doctor ZaFim's Early Experiments Recalled. 
While Indians were still riding 

about the countrj-side on horseback 
and covered wagons were not an un­
common sight on the prairies, experi­
ments with aircraft had already be­
gun on the campus of the University 
of Notre Dame. 
As early as 1888 Dr. Albert Zahm, 

'83, a member of the Notre Dame 
faculty, now director of the Guggen­
heim Chair of Aeronautics in the con­
gressional library, constructed a glid­
er and made experimental flights on 
the campus and on the dunes near 
Michigan City, Indiana. 
Marking the 50th anniversary of 

these early aviation experiments at 
the University, a special obsen^ance 
was made in conjunction with na­
tional air mail week. May 15 to 21. 
By permission of postal authorities, 
the Notre Dame post office used a 
special air mail cachet commemora­
tive of the glider experiments made 
at Notre Dame by Dr. Zahm. The 
cachet was designed by Professor 
Stanley S. Sessler, head of the De­
partment of Art. 
For the convenience of philatelists several hundred of the special cachets were stamped in advance on air mail envelopes which wer e distributed under the diretion of Brother Theo-gene, C.S.C., Notre Dame postmaster. 
Notre Dame's interest in aviation began in 1883 when Dr. Zahm, then a senior at the University, presented a paper before the Notre Dame Sci­entific association dealing with the probable trends of aviation. He dis­cussed various types of motors useful . for flying machines and predicted transoceanic flights in both heavier 
and lighter-than-air machines. 
An article which appeared in the Scholastic at that time by Dr. Zahm entitled "Flying Machines" in part, is as follows: 
"It has been frequently said that great discoveries and inventions are inevitably made in their own befitting age; and it seems that we are just entering upon the age that is to in­troduce the flying machine. The work is very great; but after the proper experiments an d calculations have been made, the practical part can in a few years be wonderfully advanced by a man of the ability and energy possessed by some of our modem in­ventors. There is time enough yet to make it an achievement of the 19th century. . . . 
"Before going on to speak of the flying machine proper, I must call your attention once more to that pe­culiar apparatus with which it is pos­sible to sail from the loftiest heights. Perfected, it would enable man to move as far horizontally as the buz­zard, eagle, or any other of those enviable creatures; for it works on the same principle. 
"Moreover, it is my firm belief that 

this same apparatus would enable 
man to compete with the buzzard in 
that other astonishing feat of rising 
without effort from the earth to the 
clouds. It is a well-known fact that 
sailing birds never need to flap their 
wings when there is a strong wind; 
nay, they can go directly against the 
wind by the power previously acquired 
from it; put intelligence into a kite 
or into a sheet of foolscap, and it can . do the same." 
Before his graduation from Notre 

Dame Dr. Zahm made an intensive 
study of the eff'ects of air currents 
on aviation, his research ultimately 
furnishing a basis for the true theory 
of soaring flight. 
In 1892, while acting as head of the Department of Mechanical Engineer­ing at Notre Dame, he made numer­ous flying models and developed model gliders capable of steady and stable flight when launched freely. He con­structed a universal anemometer to record wind movement and drew up plans for the first wind tunnel, now considered indispensable in testing 
IB 
^^^^^^ff^v '. • C.}-">^^^^^^^^^^| 
^^^^^K^lv--f'^&its'!^^^^^^K 
^^^^^^^^^v­
Wrs^^^^^^^^^M 
-^-:<''.:t -^^^^^^^^^^^^^1

^^^^^^^•^^F 
^^ '-''^^^^^^^^H 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^H 

^^^^K^.i;. 
'^^^^^^^m 
DB. ALBERT ZAHH 
June, 1938 

aero apparatus. Later, in 1901, these plans displayed an important part in the actual construction of the Zahm wind tunnel at the Catholic Univer­sity of America, Washington, D. C, where Dr. Zahm was then teaching. 
The first Aeronautical congress held in America was organized jointly by Dr. Zahm in cooperation ^vith Octave Chanute, former president of the American Society of Civil Engi­neers. This congress was held at Chi­cago during the World's Fair of 1893 ivith Dr. Zahm acting as general sec­retary and Chanute as chairman of the conference. At the meetings Dr. Zahm reported on the pioneer avia­tion cvperiments mad e at Notre Dame. 
In 1935 the Department of Aero­nautical Engineering was established at Notre Dame, Three years old, the Aeronautical Engineering Department is already one of the most popular in the College of Engineering. It is headed by Professor F. N. M. Brown, for several years consulting engineer for various airplane manufacturers. 
MONOGRAM CLUB ELECTS 

Roger Kiley, '23, Chicago, was elected president of the. Monogram Club at the annual Commencement luncheon held on the campus on Sun­day, June 5. Gus Desch, '23, also of Chicago, was elected vice-president, and Frank Miles, '21, South Bend, was chosen as secretary and treas­urer. The attendance numbered 125, including 22 members of the 1938 class. 
The new officers succeeded Don Hamilton, '12, Columbus, Ohio, Bill Sheehan, '25, South Bend, and Chick Bader, '19, Gary, Indiana, in their re­spective positions. New directors of the club will be elected by mail. 
In the absence of Elmer Layden, who was away on account of his brother's wedding, Joe Boland pre­sided at the luncheon. Joe called upon Father John Farley, C.S.C, Fa­ther Michael Moriarty and Harry Stuhldreher for talks. Father Mori­arty reported on the club's Memorial Fund. 
As a special tribute to the fighting qualities of Father Farley, he was elected honorary president of the club for the year. 
ALUMNI ARE ORDAINED 

Five members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, all members of the Notre Dame class of 1934, were or­dained in Sacred Heart Church on the campus on Friday, June 24. They • were Eev. William Anthony Mona­ghan, C.S.C., Omaha, Nebraska; Eev. Edward John Hartnett, C.S.C, De­troit, Michigan; Kev. Richard H. Sul­livan, C.S.C, Indianapolis, Indiana; Rev. Joseph Edmund Murray, C.S.C, Bridgeport, Connecticut; and Rev. Louis P. Barcelo, C.S.C, Essex Junc­tion, Vermont. 
June. 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
By JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. '32 
» » » 

Director of Athletic Publicity 
ATHLETICS 
BULLETIN 

Brilliant performances by Captain-Elect Greg Rice, John Francis, Bill Faymonville, and Bill Clifford gave Notre Dame 24 points and a tie for fifth place with Kice Institute in the 
N.C.A.A. meet at Minneapolis, June 17 and 18. Francis and Rice provided the day's major thrills. The former pushed John Woodruff of Pitt, Olym­pic and defending N.C.A.A. cham­pion, to a 1 minute 51.3 seconds per­formance in the 880-yard run — and it looked for a while on the home stretch like Francis might win. Fran­cis' time was 1:58.8, the best by near­ly a full second that he has run. 
Rice, defending t^vo-mile national champion and record holder at 9:14.2, lost his title to Walter Mehl, Wiscon­sin's captain-elect, pushing the Bad­ger to a meet record of 9:11.1. Rice, not more than 18 inches behind, ran 9:11.2, three seconds under his best pre\ious performance. The pair ran their final quarter in 58 seconds, fast­er than the last quarter of the mile i-un, and it was a dog fight right down to the tape. 
Faymonville took third in the dis­cus throw at 155 feet 1 inch, the third best throw of his career. Clif­ford was fifth in the classy 100-yard dash field. Dan Gibbs missed at 13 feet 6 inches in the pole vault. His failure to go higher might be partly due to the fact that his favorite pole was left at home by mistake. Ted I.eonas missed at 6 feet 5 inches in the high jump, and SIX men broke the former record by clearing 6 feet 8U inches. 
Being of a statistical turn of mind, your correspondent -ivishes to point out at this time that in dual competi­tion during the scholastic year of 1937-38, Notre Dame teams won 59 contests, lost 23, and tied two for a winning percentage of .710. Last year it was .679, and the increase is due to improvement in track, tennis, and fencing. 
The football team duplicated its 1936 record, again ^vinning 6, losing 2, and tying i. The basketball team duplicated its 1936-37 record, winning 20 and losing 3. The baseball team duplicated its record, winning 11 and losing 6. The track team won six and tied one for a 1.000 mark, as against last year's .375. The fencers -won 7 out of 9 for .778, as against last year's 5-3-1 for .625. The tennis boys won 4 and lost 5 for .444 as com­pared with 1937's .375. Only the golfers slipped. They got a 4-5 break the wrong way for .444, while in 1937 they won 7 out of 9. 
If you're not going to read the summary of each sport, we might as well tell you here that the golf team lost five out of six regulars by gradu­ation last year and that that's chiefly why Notre Dame had its first losing season. It had to come some time. But if you figure in the state meet, they're above .500, for the Irish won the individual and team titles. We might also point out that this was the best tennis season in recent years and that Notre Dame won in state competition, taking the doubles and runner-up honors in singles. 
The percentages of the teams fol­low : 
W li T Pet, Track 1 1.000 Basketball 0 .870 Fencinjr — — 0 .778 Football -_ 6 1 .750 Bastiball _11 0 .617 Golf _ 4 0 .:44 Tennis _ 4 0 .444 
TRACK 
The greatest track team in Notre Dame history—and we say this with-
TRACK COACH NICHOLSON 
Directed Notre Dame's Best 

out reservation—climaxed a brilliant season by winning the Central Col-, legiate conference outdoor champion­ship on June 10, to bring to the cam­pus the Knute K. Rockne memorial trophy. It was the first Notre Dame victory in the Centrals since 1931, and the first Notre Dame victory since the trophy was placed in com­petition. 
The Irish pulled their punches and still scored 37 points, while Michigan State drew up in second place with 28, and Pittsburgh was third with 27^^ points. Captain-elect Greg Rice and Dan Gibbs were the individual stars. Rice won the two-mile in a driving rain storm in 9 minutes 16.6 seconds, after placing second in the mile to Chuck Fenske of Wisconsin who shaved three seconds off Don Lash's meet record to win in 4:10.6. Rice was also xinder the former rec­ord in his greatest two-event per­formance of the season. 
Gibbs soared to 13 feet 9 inches, breaking his own Notre Dame out­door record of 13 feet 6 inches in the pole vault. He missed the meet rec­ord by one-eighth of an inch, and but for the rain he might have hit 14 feet. 
Faithful Bill Clifford picked up five points in the sprints and Bud Faymonville got 12 in the weights. He broke the meet record with his first throw in the discus, getting 155 feet % inch, but Hugh Wolf, Texas halback, went him nearly two inches better T,vith a throw of 156 feet 11% inches. 
Johnny Francis took fourth in the mile and he qualified for the half mile, hut with an eye to the N.C.A.A games the next week, Coach John Nicholson kept him out of the 880­yard finals. 
The season's record follows: 
Indoor 

Notre Dame. 73: Marquette. 31. Notre D,-une, 80: Illinois. 24. Notre Dame, 55%; Indiana 29%. Notre Dame. 52; Drske. 52. 
C.C.C. Meet—Notre Dame first with record total of 56 soints. Butler Relays—Notre Dame fifth with 18 pts. 
Quadranmilar—^Notre Dame second to Hich­igan with 48. Indiana third. Ohio State fourth. 
Ontdoor 

Notre Dame. 81% : Ohio State. 49%. 
Notre Dame. 85 2-3 : Michigan State, 451-3. 
Notre Dame. 96; Marquette. S5. 
Indiana State Meet—^Notre Dame won with 6fi 
points. 
C.G.C. Meet—Notre Dame won with 37 points. 
This record doesn't take into ac­count the Illinois, Chicago, Drake, and Penn relays in which points are not scored. The Fighting Irish ac­quitted themselves well in each of these meets. 
BASEBALL 
Seniors did most of the hitting, sophomores did most of the pitching, and the Fighting Irish won 11 out of 17 for their 40th winning season in 47 years of baseball on the campus. Sophomores Mike Mandjiak and Nor­vall Hunthausen pitched 14 of the 17 games, the former, a southpaw, win­ning 6 out of 8, and the latter taking 4 out of 6. Sophomore Res. Ellis did the relief work, getting one defeat beside his name for 23 innings of work. Ennio Arboit, 1937 captain, worked two games early in the seas­on, and he broke even before going to right field. 
It was in the latter spot that Ar­boit starred, hitting more than .500 until a late season slump cut him down to the very respectable average of .467. He scored 9 runs and he drove in 11 more. Larry Doyle, first baseman, did a good job on the com­mencement games with Wisconsin to pull his average up to .413. Johnny Braddock also came through over that week-end to iinish ^nth .341 for the year. Captain - elect Joe Nardone carved out a .292 average, and Cap­tain Chuck Borowski hit .288. Al Kovzelove \nth .250, Chet Sullivan with .246, and Jimmy Corcoran with .206 ranked in that order among the regulars. Of these, Arboit, Borowski, Braddock, and Koraelove were grad­uated. 
Coach Jake Kline's record for five years is 56 victories and 33 defeats for the very commendable average of .629. And remember that he hasn't ducked anyone, as the following rec­ord shows, and that his teams haven't had the advantage of early good weather or southern trips. 
The record: 
Notre Dame, 8: Western State. 0. 
Notre Dame. 3; Chica;;o. 2. 
Notre Dame, 3: Ohio State, 1. 
Notre Dame. 1: Ohio State, 6. 
Notre Dame, 9: Iowa, 13. Notre Dame, 2: Iowa. 1 <10 innings). Notre Dame, 5: Chicago, 0, Notre Dame, 3 : Northwestern, 5 (14 innings). 
Notre Dame. 9: Western State. 8. Notre Dame, 2; Michigan State, 5, NotrtJ Dame, 8: Illinois, 2. Notre Dame, 0: Michigan, 6. Notre Dame, 3 : Michigan, 2 (10 innings). Notre Dame, 9; Michigan State, 1. Notre Dame, 0: C^ifomia, 4. (5 innings). Notre Dame, 4; Wisconsin, 3. Notre Dame, 5: Wisconsin, 3. 
TENNIS 
The tennis season drew to a suc­cessful close with the Irish winning the Indiana State doubles champion­ship, and taking runner-up position in the singles. Bill Fay, No. 1 man on the team, got to the finals in the singles only to lose to Ed Lindsay of DePauw, 7-5, 1-6, 6-4, 8-6. Fay teamed with Charley Eodgers in the doubles to defeat Lindsay and his teammate, Lynn, for the champion­ship, 9-7, 8-10, 6-4, 6-4. 
Fay was forced to play 74 games of doubles and 71 games of singles, 145 games in all, over a period of some eight or ten hours the final day. 
Whitney Gregory of the Irish reached the semi-final round only to lose to Lindsay, 6-1, 6-3. 
Only two of the nine boys Profes­sor Pedro de Landero entered in the state tournament will be lost by graduation. They are Captain Ed Kilrain and "Wild Bill" Arnold. 
The returning stars include be­sides Fay, Rodgers, and Gregory, Johnny Wolf, Captain-elect Fred Si­mon, Frank Reppenhagen, and Har­old Bowler. 
The dual match record of four vic­tories against five defeats was some­what of a disappointment to Profes­sor de Landero, even though it repre­sents an improvement over last year's record of three victories and five de­feats. The record follows: 
Notre Dame. 1; Northwestern, 8. Notre Dame, 4; Western State. 5. Notre Dame. 7; Detroit 0. Notre Dame, 0; (Chicago. 9. Notre Dame, 3: Kentucky, 6. Notre Dame, 6; Michigan, 3. Notre Dame, 6: Indiana, 1. Notre Dame, Michigan State. 6. Notre Dame, S; St. Louis U., 1. 
The boys figure that Chicago, which lost only one set all season—that in defeating Northwestern, 8 to 1—and Northwestern were both too strong. But in the matches with Western State, Michigan, Kentucky, and Mich­igan State which could have gone either way, the Irish won only one out of four. Notre Dame was a cinch against Indiana, Detroit and Saint Louis. 
The strength of the returning forces plus the possibility of indoor practice in the Rockne Memorial field-
JOHNNY FRANCIS, '38 
Half Mile Star 
house, combine to give the Irish the rosiest prospects in several years for 1939. 
• 
GOLF 
The golfers matched the tennis team, winning four and losing five matches for the first losing season in Irish links history. Led by Ed Mc­Cabe, senior from Lock Haven, Penn­sylvania, the new individual champ­ion, the Irish won the state title. 
Lest Larry MoUer, the Beaupres, Louis O'Shay, Bill Redmond and some of the other old timers start bemoan­ing the record and harking back to the good old days, let it be recalled to mind that Captain Tom Sheehan was the only letterman available this year. There were six monogram win­ners last year. Of these Capt. Lou Fehlig was graduated. But Billy Castleman lost his eligibility by transferring to the University of Portland for a semester, and Bud Donovan, Captain-elect Al Mailhes, and Gene Milboum were unable to return to school for financial reasons. 

Thus the season opened with one experienced man in the lineup. Mc­Cabe had played a bit, but not enough to win a letter. Walter Hagen, Jr., Phil Donahue and Joe Stulb were untested sophomores. George Nolan and Charles Bennett were juniors with little varsity experience, and Chuck Gallagher was a senior in the same category. 
Detroit's victory in the opener was discouraging enough, but the Irish bounced right back to a .500 rating with a decisive victory over Chicago. Then came the high spots of the season, conquests of Ohio State, Pur­due, and Wisconsin in the closest possible matches, before Northwest-em, Minnesota, Michigan, and Mich­igan State broke the spell. Minnesota won the Big 10 title. Northwestern was defeated only by Michigan State, the latter team had its strongest team ever, and Michigan — perennially a Big 10 leader—^was defeated only by Michigan State. 
Notre Dame scored 610 (McCabe 149, Sheehan 150, Bennett 154, Dona­hue 157) to ^vin the state title, with Purdue second at 631. The one-day 36-hole medal tournament was played over the West Lafayette Country club course, Purdue's home layout. 
With the national intercollegiate tournament in Louisville, June 27 to July 2, yet to be played, the record is as follows: 
Notre Dame, 11: Detroit, 16. Notre Dame, 1814: Chicago. 814. Notre Dame. 14^5 : Ohio State, 12>^. Notre Dame, 914: Purdue, 814. Notre Dame, 1214: Wisconsin, 1114. Notre Dame, 314 : Northwestern, 1414. Notre Dame, 8: Minnesota. 10. Notre Dame, 914: Michigan, 1714. Notre Dame, 7: Michigan State. 11. 
FACULTY GOLF 
And speaking of golf, the faculty 

tournament resulted in some sur­prises. The entry list of nearly 80 contestants was the largest in the history of the aifair. The Rev. James . Fogarty, C.S.C, won the university title, taking the A flight champion­ship vacated by the Rev. James Quin­lan, C.S.C. Mike O'Connor, graduate assistant, was runner-up, with Fath­er John Reynolds, C.S.C, taking the 
consolation. 

In B flight Bill Cemey defeated Joe Benda in the all-coaching staff finale, with B. F. Finan of the com­merce faculty winning the consola­tion Father William Cunningham, C.S.C., took the C flight title, defeat­ing Coach George Keogan in the finals, with Chet Grant, eminent ath­letic association philosopher, writer, and backfield coach, winning the con­solation title vacated by your corre­spondent, who missed the consolation round by the happy accident of first round pairings which placed him against Bob Cahill, Elmer Layden's crack amanuensis (a man who ansis the telephone, he explains). End of sentence. 
FOOTBALL 

When Coach Elmer Layden's boys shoved off with a victory over Drake, a tie with Illinois, and a defeat by Carnegie Tech, the prophets of doom had a field day. But Notre Dame won five of the next six to rank among the gridiron giants of the year. Pros­pects for next season are covered in another part of this section, and Art Haley's ticket message is also some­where else in this edition. For pos­terity, the 1937 record. 
Notre Dame, 21; Drake. 0. Notre Dame, 0 : IlUnois, 0. Notre Dame, 7; : Carnegie Tech. 9. Notre Dame, ; Navy, 7. Notre Dame, V; : Minnesota, 6. 
«; 
Notre Dame. B; ; PittshurKh, 21. 
Notre Dame, 7; ; Army, 0. 
Notre Dame, 7; ; Northwestern. 0. 
Notre Dame, 13: Southern California. 6. 

BASKETBALL 
While they matched their 1937-38 record of 20 victories and three de­feats last season, the basketball playing lads didn't come off with the national title as they did in 1937-38. The schedule that year enabled them to play return games with each of» the teams that defeated them. Mar­quette was the only one in this cate­gory last season, so Minnesota and Illinois got away with their victories without feeling the wrath of Coach George Keogan's revenge. 
So closed the Paul Nowak-Johnny Moir era during which Notre Dame won 62, lost 8, and tied one through the inability of the scorekeepers to add to 21 by ones and twos. Are you listening. Dean McCarthy? But may­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
be they weren't commerce men. Keo­gan loses besides his two three-year ail-Americans, Captain Ray Meyer, winner of the Byron V. Kanaley award at Commencement, and star forward; Tommy Wukovits and Tom Jordan, guards; Mike Crowe, Jim Carson, and Mike O'Connor, for­wards; and Lyman Shields, center. O'Connor was senior class president, so the squad covered itself with glory in more fields than one. 
The record: 

Notre Dame. 49; Columbia Collese, 18. 
Notre Dame, 43: Ball Slate Teachers, 28. 
Notre Dame. 60 ; West. State (Kalamazoo), 21. 
Notre Dame, 33 : Wisconsin, 31. 
Notre Dame, 30 ; Northwestern, 27. 
Notre Dame, 45; Xavier (Cincinnati), 26. 
Notre Dame, 32; Illinois, 33 (overtime). 
Notre Dame, 40 ; Northwestern, 29. 
Notre Dame, 25 : Minnesota, 37. 
Notre Dame, 45; Pennsylvania. 25. Notre Dame. 57: Canisius, 33. 
Notre Dame, 47; Kentucky. 37. 
Notre Dame, 51: Pittsbursh. 41. 
Notre Dame. 39: Butler, 26. 
Notre Dame, 50: St. Louis U., 25. 
Notre Dame. 51; Pittsbursh. 17. 
Notre Dame, 43 : Marquette. 45. 
Notre Dame, 45; Butler, 22. 
Notre Dame, 48: Michisan State. 32. 
Notre Dame, 50; New York University. 38 
Notre Dame. 49 : Colgate. 33. 
Notre Dame, 39: Marquette, 28. 
Notre Dame, 45; Detroit University, 31. 
FENCING 
Coach Pedro de Landero started his season with t^vo lettermeh. Captain Jack Zerbst and Salvatore Scarlatta. The Irish lost t^vo of their first three matches. Then they won six in a row for what must be called a great seas­on, when all angles are considered. Only t%vo lettermen, Zerbst and Vic Mercado, have been graduated, while six men are back. Scarlatta is next year's captain. 
The record: 
Notre Dame, 12; Purdue, 15. Notre Dame, 12y,; Detroit, 4^4. Notre Dame. 9V.: (HiicaKO, 17^4. Notre Dame, 9: Ohio State, 8, Notre Dame, 12; Lawrence Tech.. 9. Notre Dame. 17; Purdue, 10, Notre Dame, 14^ ; Wisconsin. 12^. Notre Dame, 12;" Cincinnati. 5, Notre Dame, 13; WashinKton University, G. 

ALL-STAR FOOTBALL POLL 
Elmer Layden has not changed his mind about the All-Star coaches poll, and he still says that if he is ever to 
ENNIO AKBOIT, '38 
Star in Baseball and Football Magna Cum Laude Graduate 
245 

have the honor of-coaching the Chi­cago Tribune all star game he wants the vote to come spontaneously, not as the result of organization efforts. He could get the No. 1 job easily enough if he would just let the new Association president, Ambrose O'Connell, say the word to his boss, Jim Farley. But Elmer doesn't want it that way. 
As for the players, the review of prospects in another part of this issue tells you something about the men who have been graduated. They include Chuck Sweeney and Len Skoglund, ends; Denny Emanuel and Gene Ely, tackles; Joe Ruetz and joe Kufaarich, guards; Pat HcCarty, cen­ter; Andy Pnplis and Chuck O'Reilly, quarterbacks; JackMcCarthy, Bunny McCormick, and Ennio Arboit, half­backs—and no fullbacks. This is not a putsch, just a guide for you in casting your ballot in your home towns. 
We add our humble word of praise to Arch Ward of the Tribune, one of our several illustrious predecessors here, for the unquestioned success of this game. It's the big thrill of a career to the players, and a great show for the spectators. ItTl be the Washington Redskins and the Sammy Baugh-Wayne Millner combination against the all-Stars and the Andy Puplis-Cchuck Sweeney axis. 
West Catholic Wins 
Philadelphia School Takes Track Event 

For the fifth consecutive year West Catholic High school of Philadelphia won the fifth annual Catholic inter­scholastic track and field meet at Notre Dame on Jane 11. Cracking out a total of 70, West Catholic scored more points than the next four teams combined, and took six out of 15 first places. More than 200 boys participated in the two-day event. 
The point standings were as fol­lows : 
West Catholic. Philadelphia . _70 St. Ignatius, Chicago St. George, Evanston. HI. _ ilt. C&rmel, Chicago Leo, Chicago JO 
Fenwick, Oak Park, HI. _ 9 St. Rita, Chicago -7 DePaul. Chicago _ 7 St. Mel. Chicago _ 7 De La Salle. Chicago — _ 6 Loyola, Chicago _ 5 Salesianum. Wilmington. Del. . _ 5 Pio Nono, St. Francis, Wis. , _ 2 
Winners, by events, follow: 

MILE RUN—Baker (De La Salle) Time: 4:36.1. 
FIRST 440—Dunbar (West Catholic). Time: :52.2. SECOND 440—Howe (Lojola). Time: :52.3. 880-YARD RUN—Kenny (Mt Carmel). Time: 1:59.4. (New record). 200-YARD I/)W HURDLES—Cary (West C:at)ialic). Time: :23.4. 220-YARD DASH—Schiewie (St. Ignatius) Time: :22.4. POLE VAULT—Malsoed (West Catholic). HeiKht: 11 feet, 9 inches. (New record). DISCUS—Lapka (St. Icnatius). Distance: 112 feet. Q inches. 
HIGH JUjrP—Geralts. (St. Rita) and Mal-seed (West (iitholic) tied for first. Height: 
5 feet 9 inches. (In the draw for medals Ger-alts won first). JAVELIN — McKeman (West Catholic). Distance: 171 feet, 4 ^ inches. (New record). BROAD JUMP—Sharkey (West Catholic). Distance: 20 feet, 8 inches. SHOT PUT—Montcro (Salesianum). Dis­tance: 50 feet, 5% inches. (New record.) 
120-YARD INTERMEDIATE HURDLES— Carey (West Catholic). Time: :15.9. 100-YARD DASH—Schiewie (St. Ignatius). Time: :10.1. 
8S0-YARD RELAY —Won by Fenwick ( Kruger, . Thomas, Collins and Maloney ) . Time: 1:33.6. 

1938 Football Prospects Outlined 
Nine New Faces To Appear on First Team 
If every loyal alumnus reads this resume of football prospects, it will save every loyal student and campus worker a lot of time and embarrass­ment answering the question, "How does it look for the fall?" 
-Ajiswering the question isn't such a chore in itself, but that quizzical look one gets when one says "not so hot," is different. The quizzer purses his lips, says um-hmmnun, grin s slightly, and othenvise shows evidence of doubting the sincerity of the quizzee. 
We go, for our information, directly to the old feed box. We shall give you the highlights of the Universal Notre Dame Night talk that Layden, himself, delivered into a dead micro­phone when the Notre Dame-Chicago line broke. 
You may expect many new and un­familiar faces in the 1938 lineup. We've mentioned before the loss of nine regulars and of 21 out of the first 33 men of 1937. That means nine new faces in the No. 1 team, and 21 new boys on the first three teams. 
We don't intend to approach this discussion negatively, but when you lose boys like Len Skoglund, Chuck Sweeney, .A.1 Shellogg, Joe Euetz, Joe Kuharich, and Pat McCarty from your line, you are losing defensive strength. The 1938 team \vill be scored upon more than the 1937 team was. 
But spring practice signs point to a strong possibility that the 1938 club may be stronger offensively. 
"WTiat we lack in experience," says Elmer, "we'll partially make up in fight and enthusiasm." He allows that his present squad is the most spirited he's had yet. You see, each of his 200 candidates has himself pegged for one of those 21 open jobs on the travelling squad. And besides the boys are more evenly matched than usual. Layden wishes that some standouts had sifted their way to the top, but he's satisfied that this even distribution of strength keeps spirit so high. 
For Notre Dame spirit — go back no further than 1930 — defeated U.S.C, 27 to 0 that year, .A.rmy 13 to 12 in 1933, Ohio State 18 to 13 in 1935, Northwestem's Big Ten cham­pions 26 to 6 in 1936, and Minnesota last year, 7 to 6. Notre Dame will not be among the percentage leaders next fall — the schedule and inexperi­ence make this a safe prediction — but past history makes equally safe the guess that the Irish may be ex­pected to pull the unexpected, whether it's \vinning or losing, in 1938. 
We've given you before the prob­lems faced by Layden and his able helpers. Now we'll repeat them with some of the answers, position by posi­tion. The whole answers will be ready for delivery just after the U.S.C. game at Los Angeles ne-\t Dec. 3. 

LEFT END — Len Skoglund and Jerry Clifford are lost, leaving Earl Brown, Jr., a monogram winner, and Bill Kerr, who saw action vdtii the third team while Clifford was hurt. George Rassas, freshman from Stam­ford, Connecticut, is the freshman standout. 
LEFT T.A.CKLE — Ed Beinor, all­.\merica board choice last fall, is back. Denny Emanuel and Gene Ely, lettermen, will be graduated. Frank 
•Brew, sophomore last fall, is back, and Tom Gallagher, Chicago fresh­man, pleased the coaches with his ag­gressiveness and ruggedness. 
LEFT GU.A.ED — Joe Ruetz and Harvey Foster, lettermen, are gone. Capt. Jim McGoldrick, last year's No. . 2 man, is back. Joe DeFraneo, who was hampered by injuries as a soph last year, is the best of the reserves returning, and Pete Kelly of Chicago appears to be the leading freshman contender. 
CENTER — The loss of Pat Mc­Carty and John Fogel, first and third team men last year, has weakened this spot. Ed Longhi, letterman, is back. .A.1 Mooney, made-over fullback and a sophomore last fall, is waging a neck-and-neck battle \\'ith Longhi. 
EIGHT GUARDS — Five of the first six men of 1937, including the first three, were lost. They are Joe Kuharich, Walt Marshall, Joe Race, Jim Mulcahey, and Harry Fox. The only returning reserve is Gus Bossu, but Chuck Riffle, another convert from fuUbackism, shows a liking for the position which may install him with the No. 1 team. 
RIGHT TACKLE — Al Shellogg has been lost, but the rest are back, headed by Paul Kell, letterman; Tad Harvey, reserve; and Joe Bechtold, freshman. 

RIGHT END — Graduation again makes a clean sweep, taking the first four men out of the play in one block. Chuck Sweeney, Capt. Joe Zwers, Johnny Murphy, and Greg Kelly re­ceived degrees, Johnny Kelly, of last year's reserves, and Pete Arboit, a re­serve left end last fall, will fight, for the starting job. 
QUARTERB-A.CK — Youcan't laugh off the loss of Andy Puplis and Chuck O'Reilly of the first t\vo teams. Bill Hofer, No. 3, was out of spring drills ^vith injuries. Emmett Crowe, seventh of the clan (in case you've lost count), and Steve Sitko, a soph last fall, are standouts among the re­turning reserves. Walt O'Meara, tiny and head y Stamford, Connecticut, freshman, cannot be sold short. The coaches like his brain. 
LEFT HALFBACK—Layden tried several men in this post last fall \vith Jack McCarthy getting the first team call. But he's been lost. Harry Ste­venson, Jr., a fine passer and uncanny kicker, has shown a pleasing improve­ment as a runner this spring. Johnny McMahon, who will be a senior, blossomed as a triple-threat in spring drills. Ben Sheridan, 150-pound soph­omore speedster last fall, made sev­eral nice runs in scrimmages. And 
"Bob Saggau, who throws right-handed and kicks left-footed, is the best triple - threat prospect among the freshmen. Ask Elmer sometime to explain the intricacies of setting up a punt formation off the T formation for a left-footed kicker—^very amus­ing, especially when he begins to stumble himself. Lou Zontini, like Stevenson, letterman, has been shifted to right half to fill a gap as big as your hollow tooth. 
RIGHT H.A.LFBACK—Bunny Mc­June. 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 247 

Cormick, Ennio Arboit, and Joe Glea­son, all lettermen, are gone. Zontini, as just reported, is back, along ^vith Mike Corgan, and Max Bumell, re­serves last year. They are the lead­ers but won't necessarily line up in the order given. 
FULLB.A.CK — This looks like the best fortified spot on the team. Joe Thesing, Ed Simonich, and Motts To­nelli, lettermen, are still with us. So are Harold Gottsacker and Ben Bin­kowski, reserves. And you can add Milt Piepul and Bob Leonard, husky freshmen. Leonard and Thesing are both from Cincinnati. 
The Irish will be starting their 51st football season next fall and Layden just hopes that the 51st will be credit­ably enough played so that the nu­meral will not be mistaken with his age at the end of the season. 
We have familiarized you before with the schedule, on which Kansas replaced Drake, and Georgia Tech takes over Pitt's place. Kansas should be stiifer competition than Drake, and Georgia Tech should be something less frightening—^we hope—than Pitt was last year. But the Ramblin' Wrecks have been molesting Tulane, Alabama, Vanderbilt, and some of the other Southern leaders unmercifully with its giant killers in recent years—and Layden allows that October 8 in At­lanta will be more like a Turkish bath than a football game. 
The schedule: 

Oct. 1—Kansas at Notre Dame Oct. 8—Georgia Tech at Atlanta Oct. 15—Illinois at Notre Dame Oct. 22—Carnegie Tech at Notre Dame Oct. 29—-A.rmy at New York Nov. 5—Navy at Baltimore Nov. 12—Minnesota at Notre Dame Nov. 19—Northwestern at Evanston Dec. • 3—Southern Cal. at Los Angeles 
THE BACCALAUREATE SERMON 
{Continued from Page 228) 

know it with all the arguments, and with all the beautiful illustrations, to be read in a profound treatise on the­ology; but this knowledge would only constitute theological science. It is proper to science to perfect the intel­lect in this or that kind of object, but God wants us to have wisdom also, which induces us to love and to serve Him. In faithful love and service wisdom causes us to coordinate thoughts, aifections, and actions in our direct relationship with God, with due regard for neighbor, in our pri­vate and public life, in the exercise of a profession, and in our civic du­ties. Wisdom, therefore, is the archi­tectonic scienc e of life (Summa Theol., la, 2ae, q. 66, art. 55 c) and gives direction to it not only for the years that we must live here, but also 
for the attainment of our eternal 
goal, for reaching God, our last end. 
Those who are skilled in a science or in an art are spoken of as experts; but if wisdom is not in them they very often, alas, run the risk of co­operating with evil and of making use of their learning in a perverted way. Thus, for example, it is easy for a doctor v/ho has forgotten God to lose his sense of the moral order and to become an instrument of in­iquity by promoting birth control, abortion, euthanasia, and other crimes. 
Times of Novelties 

We are living in times of change and of novelties. It seems that in the very atmosphere there is a ner­vous intolerance for that which re­calls the past. People become enthu­siastic very readily for everything new, even for what is extravagant and radical, in studies, in politics, in economics, and in problems of the spirit. The Church has never feared healthy development. But in the midst of a feverish interest in what is new, and in the onrushing succession of theories and activities, it is impor­tant to arrive at a right judgment of things, to maintain an orderly con­nection between the old and the new, to restrain and combat those social changes which defy every principle of the natural and of divine law, and to preserve our ci\ili7.ation from the madness of the fool who would deny God (Ps. XIII, 1), reject the rights of workingmen, destroy the family, exclude the principles of morality from industry, and make even more harsh the struggle of the classes in evil economic systems which ignore the rights of men. 
Faith has ever extended a helping hand • to science. Dens sciejitianim Dominus est (I Kings II, 3). God is the Author of nature, and there can be no conflict between true faith and true science. If the Divine Master remains at the head of every activity, life will be full of good works. "He that followeth Me walketh not in darkness, but shall have the light of life" (John VIII, 12). We must fol-• low Him with understanding, because in liimine tuo videbinms lumen (Ps. XXXV, 10). At the same time we must follow Him with resolution and with courage, because it is only with these that we shall be able to prac­tice the good and promote it. Those who have no regard for the moral values, those who try to excuse them­selves in the thought that they can prescind from them, sooner or later end in an effective denial of them. In holding to truth and in the practice of virtue it is necessary to take a positive stand, to assume without compromise an attitude that is deci­sive and resolute, because "No man can serve two masters." (Mt. VI 24) 
My dear graduates, the remem­brance of the happy years you have spent at Notre Dame will always be dear to you. You will realize ever more and more that the beauty of these years is a consequence of the kind of life you followed here: your studies, your joyful recreations, your religious practices, the dedication of your energies to the cultivation of goodness and truth. It never hap­pens that anyone truly repents of things well done. He may, indeed, stray into other paths; but he does not repent of what is good. Continue in this wisdom. In your family life and here at your University you have been trained in the holy fear of God and piety. Splendid: "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom," 
(Eccli. I, 16); and "To the godlj" He hath given wisdom" (Eccli. XLIII, 37). In this University you have been trained in knowledge and you have beheld the light of truth. "Believe in the light that you may be the children of light" (John XII, 36). Jesus said "I am the Light of the world" (John VIII, 12). In this University you have been trained in love for the Church, for her divine mission, for her works of charity, of civilization, and of education. Maintain ever a living love for the Church and for whomsoever may represent her: the Sovereign Pontiff, the Bishops, the Ministers of the Lord. The Church is the teacher of truth, both of theo­retical and practical truth. She has never been remiss in promoting it. Her teachings, her instructions, her warnings, arid her condemnations are all designed to direct humanity in the way of truth, in wisdom, and the per­fection of life. The memorable en­cyclicals of the Holy Father on edu­cation, on matrimony, on the sanctity of the family, on labor, on atheistic communism, on studies, and on the spiritual life represent the solicitude of our Holy Mother, the Church, for our good, for the benefit of society, and for the salvation of souls. 
My dear graduates, the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross is proud to give you back to your families and to send you forth into human society, a chos­en legion of young men. You are the precious treasure which delights your teachers more than any other recom­pense which can be made them in the celebration of this first centenary of the existence of their religious insti­tute. Science and wisdom are in you. May they shine forth in you all the days of your lives, in private and in public, a precious heritage for your own good and for the good of others. And may the name of Notre Dame, the name your University so proudly bears, Our Lady's name whom the Church salutes and invokes as "Seat of Wisdom," may that name be for each of you a sweet remembrance, a strong protection, and ever a noble inspiration. 
New Administration Has N. D. Essentials 
Ambrose O'Connell is Elected President; 
John O'Connor Will Represent "38 Qass. 
The 7938-7939 Alumni Board 
Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., '03, Notre Dame, Ind Monorary President Ambrose A. O'Ojnnell, '07, Washington, D.C. President Joseph B. McGlynn, '12, East St. Louis, Illinois First Vice-President James M. Phelan, '17, Seattle, Washington Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, Indiana Secretary-Treasurer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Indiana Assistant Secretary 
Don P. O'Keefe, '03, Detroit, Michigan Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Neivark, N. J Francis H. McKeever, '03, Chicago, III Edward F. O'Toole, '25, Chicago, 111 John C. O'Coimor, '38, Indianapolis, Ind. William E. Cotter, '13, New Yorfc City 

Just one reading of the above offi­cers will give the veteran alunmus ample assurance that the affairs of the Association are in able hands for the coming year. A word for the younger alumni may, however, be in order. 
Honorary President 

In Father Walsh, the honorary president, are wrapped up all the glorious traditions of the Univer­sity's priests. Scholar, teacher, ad­ministrator and personal friend to generations of students. Father Walsh added the great World War work of chaplain. As president of Notre Dame from 1922 to 1928 he saw the Greater Notre Dame assume physical shape. For 35 years, since his degree in 1903, he has been in the van of Notre Dame activity. He should see an active, as well as an honorary, term. 
President 

Ambrose O'Connell, executive as­sistant to the Postmaster General of the United States, also brings a back­ground which includes campus service under Fathers Morrissey and Cavan­augh, and a rich alumni record from New York and Washington. Travel, in the interests of his present work, has given him nation-mde contacts, upon w^hich the Association cannot help hut base a busy year devoted to the immediate needs of the member­ship. It goes without saying that President O'Connell brings an organ­ization ability and interest which in­sures the program of the Association an excellent leadership. 
Vice-Presidents 

The two new vice-presidents, Jos­eph B. McGlynn, '12, of East St. 
 Director to 1939  Director to 1940 Director to 1941 Director to 1942 Special Director to 1939 £x-Officio Director to 1939 

Louis, Illinois, and James M. Phelan, '17, Seattle, Washington, contribute to the Board a representation from the Mississippi Valley and the Pacific Coast which guarantees a broad view­point in the Association problems, as well as the counsel of two men whose activities on the campus and experiences since leaving Notre Dame especially qualify them to serve. 
Three new directors appear on the Board. Bill Cotter becomes a director for one year ex officio, insuring the continuation of his constructive work as president. Ed O'TooIe, '25, who brings to the Board another .voice from the world's largest Notre Dame 
PBESroENT O'CONNELL 

club, Chicago, is the new member elected for four years, succeeding James E. Deery. And the Board will serve the interests of the new alumni of the Class of 1938 \vith the aid of John O'Connor, '38, president of the Class, who returns to Notre Dame for Law, and will consequently be available personally for the younger sentiment. 
Eemaining in office are the other three directors, Don P. O'Keefe, De­troit; Joseph M. Byrne, Newark, and Francis H. McKeever, Chicago. All three have been invaluable in advis­orj' capacities of both general and specific natures during their service to the Board. 
Also remaining, in the actual boiler room of the Association, are James 
E. Armstrong, '25, and William E. Dooley, '26, who are the executive officers of the Association, managing the Alumni Office and editing the Notre Dame ALUMNUS. (Cf. the Sec­retary's Keport.) 
So, with a rousing vote of thanks to the retiring officers whose work is reflected in the reports in this issue, turn around now for a look at the new year, with its new and further opportunities. 
District Governors for 1938-39 

1.—Northern Indiana an d Southwestern Michigan: JOSEPH F. DONAHUE, '11. South Bend, Indiana. 
2.—ChicaKo: EDWARD W. GOULD, '23. 

Chicago, Illinois^ 
3.—Ohio, Western Pennsylvania, West Vir­cinia: EDWARD C. BYRNES, *25. Pittshurph, Pennsylvania. 
4.—^Alinncsota. Wisconsin. Michigan (Upper Peninsula) : JOHN D. YELLAND, *30, Min­neapolis. Minnesota. 
5.—Michigan, (except the Upper Peninsula and Southwestern counties) : JOSEPH SAN­FORD, •21, Muskegon, Michigan. 
6.—New Jersey, Delaware. Marj-land. East-em Pennsylvania, and the District of Colum­hia: ROBERT PHELAN, '22. East Orange. New Jersey. 
7.—New York City: LEO V. McLAUGH-LIN. '32, New York City, 
8.—New York State (except New York City and suburbs) : THOMAS V. DOLLARD, '21. Troy. New York. 
9.—New England: ROBERT W. POWERS, '29, Providence, Rhode Island. 
10.—^Virginia, North and South Carolina: REV. THOMAS StA-CKIN, '15, Spartansburg, South Carolina. 
June. 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 249 
11.—^Alabama. Georgia an d Florida: nolly, vice-president; and Michael J. meals, as well as a Retreat offering. 
CHARLES POWERS, '31, Savannah, Georgia. 
Leding, secretary-treasurer. Further inf ormation and reservations 12.—Kentucky, Southern Indiana, and Ten­can be obtained &om Ilr. Burke. 
nessee: MARION HEFFERNAN, '28, Louis­The incoming officers inherited last ville, Kentucky. year's Rockne Trophy, since the three Under the chairmanship of Ton 
13.—Louisiana. Mississippi, and Arkansas: CHARLES DE LA VERGNE, •23, New Orleans, Louisiana. 
14.—Texas: CLYDE E. BROUSS.\KD, '13, Beaumont, Texas. 
15.—Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma, Southern Illinois: N. F. SCHWARTZ, '33, Salina. Kansas. 
IG.—^Northern Illinois, Iowa, Nebraska: ELMER J. MOHAN, '17, Streator. Illinois. 
17.—Montana, Wyoming. North ••and South Dakota: ROBERT COTIMINS. '26, Mandan, North Dakota. 
IS.—Utah and Colorado: ROBERT A. DICK, 

•29, Denver, Colorado. 
19.—So. California. New Mexico, Arizona: TERENCE B. COSGROVE, •OG, Los Angeles, California. 
20.—Northern California, Nevada: BER­NARD J. ABROTT, ^27, Oakland, California. 
21.—WashinKton. Oregon. Idaho: EMMETT LENIHAN, •!?, Seattle, Washington. 
22.—Foreign: ANTONIO ROXAS, •2G, Manila. P. I. 
Alumni Clubs 
AKRON 
Hugh Colopy, ^33, R.F.D. 4, President; John Doran, ^33, 69 E. Mill Street, Secretary. 

ARKANSAS 
Burt L. Roberts, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock, Ark., Secretary. 

BENGAL 
Rt. Ecv. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C., "02, Dacca, Bengal, India, President; Rev. J. J. Hennessey, C.S.C., ^02, Dacca. Bengal. India, Secretary. 

BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) 
Thomas Grimes, '34, 35 South Third Street, Niles, Michigan, President; Sheridan Cook, '32, c-o South Bend Tribune, 119 North Third Street, Niles, Michigan, Secretary. 

BUFFALO 
Carlos H. Frank, '33. 232 Barton Street, President: Ralph F. Else, '3-1, 278 Voorhecs Avenue, Secretary. 

BOSTON 
Fred C. Solari, '35, Center St.. Pembroke, Mass., President; John J, Hanley, '34, 409 Salem St., Medford, Mass., Secretary; Paul McManus, '34, Fo:c & Hounds Club, Boston, Mass., Secretary. 

CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-IU.) 
Ambrose McGinnis. '24. President: Fred J. Solman. Jr., '2S, 5752 Erie Ave, Hammond, Secretary. 

CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) 
John Land. '34, 4 Hedgewood Ave.. Schen­ectady, President; Michael Leding, ^33, 1202 Union St.. Schenectady, Secretary. 

The Notre Dame Club of the Cap­ital District observed Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner at the Van Curie Hotel in Schenectady. 
The Albany group went into rap­tures over Schenectady fried chicken. Albany is noted for its food houses, but then, possibly, they eat only steak at home. 
The newly elected club officers are John B. Land, president; J. T. Con­schools competing ended their round robin night where they started—all even. 
Tom DoUard, the Trojan stalwart, took his election to the governor­ship of the eighth district quite calm­ly. Several of the boys have offered to help him out if the work gets the better of him. 
Doc Touhey has quit the Capital City and is now the junior member in the law firm of Finn and Touhey at Glenn Falls, New York. He prom­ises to get down and see us often. His notice of the dinner caught up with him the day after Universal No­tre Dame Night, so we didn't have to explain that he wasn't slighted. 
Those who enjoyed Father O'Har­ra's address, and who are waiting for the ALUJINUS to give us the low down on the football team, were: Eddie Eckert, Tom Farley, Tom Dollard, Dick Walsh, Jack Huether, John Meehan, Larry Weise, Cris Connolly, Harold Canavan, Jim Drislane, Ed Kenefake, Bill Davis, Jack Land, and Mike Leding. 
We expect a larger crowd at our summer outing. Mike Leding. 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. E. J. Hermes, •IS, 1910 Oakhmd SL. Lansing, President; J. Harvey Gauthier, ^30, Bark River, Mich., Secretary. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY 
Anthony V. Ceres, •28, Perth Amboy Nafl. Bank Btdg., Perth Amboy, President; John Lisrcki, ^31, 215 Water Street, Perth Amboy. Secrerary. 
CENTRAL OHIO 
Harry Nester. '20, 8 E. Broad Street. Co­lumbus. President; John S. Loder, ex. '25, Union Clothing Co., Columbus, Secretary. 
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA 
William J. McAleer. '31. 1518 19th Avenue, Altoona. Pa., President; Edward F. Lee, 
•31, 210 13th Street, Altoona, Pa., Secre­tary. 
CHICAGO 
Francis T. McCurrie, ^27, 8219 S. Sangamon St., President: Edwin Leo Ryan, •27. Il l W, Washington Blvd., Secretary. 
Emmett Burke, '22, 2151 East 68th Street, is the committee chairman in charge of promoting the Notre Dame Lay Retreats among the Chicago club members. He was chosen at the May meeting of the Board of Governors and officers. President McCurrie said. 
This year for the first time there will be two Lay Retreats on the cam­pus. The first vnll start on Thursday evening, .A.ugust 4, with supper and close Sunday morning, August 7, with breakfast. 'The second will open Sun­day evening, August 7, with supper, and close Tuesday evening, August 9, with supper. 
How much will it cost? The mini­mum offering requested is ten dollars. This amount covers a room and all Donovan, the dnb's annual golf party will be held (was held) on Thursday, June 30, afternoon and evening, at the Navajo Country Clnb, 123rd Street and Ridgeland Road. A steak dinner will follow (followed) the divot-digging. (Only the printer knows when this ALTTMNVS will come out—and we're not sure about him sometimes. Therefore, the choice of tenses.—^Eds.) 
CINCINNATI 
John H. Heilker, '30, 3Ui Stettiimis Ave , 
President; Raymond J. Pellnum, ex. '34. 
1860 Denham St., Secretary. 
CLEVELAND 
Karl B. Marterstecfc. •29, Williamson BIdg.. President; G. Albert Lawton. e i •34. 2097 Wyandotte Ave., Lakewood. Secretary. 
Except for the recent elections, we haven't much to write about. But elections are usually sufficiently inter­esting to fill a column of themselves, so here we go. May 9 was the date, the Hotel Cleveland the scene (com­plaint: no ash trays). Amidst the usual fanfare, and, by Nick Rnffing's admission, in the presence of "many new faces" Karl E. Martersteck de­feated John Begley and John Collin* for president. On the first ballot Mr. Begley had a plurality. It had been pointed out, however, that a majority was necessary; to facilitate the bal­loting, Mr. Collins, who had run third withdrew from candidacy. On the second ballot Mr. Martersteck drew many of Mr. Collins constituents and received a majority vote, despite a very able piece of oratory by Mr. Begley. 
Voting for the other officers was somewhat perfunctory, Dick Prezebel being defeated for vice-president by Joe Gavin, and Jim Dulibs being de­feated for treasurer by Bob Morris­tey. Your correspondent was elected secretary by acclamation: no one else had time to write this column. 
Tom McGettrick, arriving late after having attended night school, had a little trouble in getting a ballot, but arrangements were made for him dur­ing one of Marty Rini's frequent mo­tions for dues, or against dues, we've forgotten which. John Venablea brought five "sure votes" for Beg­ley in his large phaeton, Cleve Carey'* coupe was jammed with "sure votes," and so was Bud Raddalx'*. Perhaps they had to change a tire. 
At the annual meeting of the Board of Governors several nights after the election many interesting suggestions were made, among them the publication of a news organ, the cost of which is to be borne by ad­vertisers, and the purpose of which is the stimulation of attendance at the activities which the dnb sponsors. 
We have seen Ed Goath at the Cleveland on three successive Satur­day nights, each time escorting the same person, and each time a little more interested in his companion than the last time. 
Art Carey is to be graduated from Harvard Law this month. Among those being graduated from Notre Dame this year are Al Butler, Tom Mulligan, and Bob Mesinick. The alumni group is planning a welcome party for the newcomers. Corny Maball reports that his business is very good. Bill Jacobs is travelling for a wholesale drug firm. Ralph and Chuck Kaiser are praying for a little hot weather to boost the ice sales. 
Bud and Leslie Raddatz enter­tained Fred MacBeth for several days before Commencement, then all three went to South Bend for the week­end. Cleve Carey, Ray Miller, Dutch O'Day, John and Herb Venables, Dick Prezebel, Karl Martersteck, Ed Carey and Walter Miller were also among those who attended the graduation exercises. Harlan Herman is star representative of a local advertising agency. 
We'll not be at all surprised one of these days to hear that Hugh Ball's son (2 years old) has severely beaten his father. The kid is now about 40 pounds and gaining a pound a day — almost Joe Strauss is not working for GMAC as recently re­ported; as to what he is doing, ask him—we can't understand the set-up. 
John P. Murphy was seen at the Abbey Theatre Players' performance about a month ago. Your correspon­dent attended with Mrs. L. and Bob Lux. 
G. Albert Lawton. CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
•Williiim A. Hurley. '28. 70 Montrose St.. Springfield. Mass.. President: Francis T. Aheam, '27, c-o Hartford Times, Jlai-tford. Conn., Secretary. 

DALLAS 
James P. Swift. "24, 1202 Sootliwcstcm Life 
Bide.. Dallas, President: Francis A. McCul­
loUBh, '30. 9X7 First National Bank Bldg., 
Dallas. Secretary. 

DAYTON Eusene Mayl, '24. 400 Irvine Ave.. Presi­dent : William Cronin. •29. 418 Crafton Ave.. Secretary. 
DENVER 
Robert A. Dick, '29. 930 Marion Street, 
Telephone Bide.. President; Harry Lawrence. 
'29, 1932 Broadway, Secretary. 

DETROIT Lincoln Wurzer, '35, 758 Atkinson. Presi­dent; Arthur D. Cronin, '37, 19160 Wood-Eton Road. Secretary. 
DES MOINES 
John T. Stark. '17. 1048 35th Street. Presi­
dent: Richard Hyde, "35, 678 26th Street 
Secretary. 

DUBUQUE 
C. L Krajewski, '16. 321 Bank & Insurance . Bide., President: Henry L Trenkle, '24, 180 
S. Booth St., Secretary. 

Dubuque alumni observed Univer­sal Notre Dame Night with a dinner at Shooting Park. Brief talks were pven by Father Loras Lane, '32, who The Notre Dame Alumnus 
is now at Nativity parish in Dabnqae; Matthew A. Czizek, former city at­torney; Nick Sutton, director of re­lief for Dubuque; Dr. John Cain and Thomas Flynn. 
All the officers of the club were re-elected. They are Judge Patrick 
J. Nelson, honorary president; C I. Krajewski, president, for the fourth consecutive year; Henry Trenkle, sec­retary; Louis Fautsch, treasurer. 
Among the Notre Dame men pres­ent for the dinner, in addition to those listed previously, were City Manager Albin A. Rhomberg, Joseph 
A. Rhomberg, Louis A. Rhomberg, Dr. Edward Rhomberg, Edmund C Tschudi, John L, DufiFy, Leo Tschudi, Joseph Meuser, Joseph Ott, John Wolfe, Emil Telfel and John Nelson. 
Preceding the dinner, City Mana­ger Rhomberg explained the origin and purpose of Universal Notre Dame Night in a half-hour broadcast over station WKBB, which is owned and operated by Walter Klauer, '22. 
Bob Kenline was married on April 20 and he, with his best man, Paul Gehrig, missed the dinner on that ac­count, according to news from Presi­dent Krajewski. 
EASTERN INDIANA Thomas A. Cannon. '33, 401 Wyaor Bide., Muncie, Ind., President: Alvia £ . Graneer. ex. '31, 617 S. Jefferson St., Hartford City, Ind., Secretary. 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA Leo R. Mclntyre, '28. Bethlehem. President: Ernest L. Wilhelm, '27. New Jersey Zinc Co., Research Dept., Palmerton, Secretary. 
ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA Charles J. Wittman, '31. 621 Schenley Dr.. President: William K. Bayer. '36, 724 W. 10th St., Secretary. 
FLINT (Michigan) Stephen J. Roth, '31, 723 Union Indnstrial Bide.. President; Donald F. MacDonald. tl , 1631 W. Court SL, Secretary. 
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA Edward S. Sullivan, '24, 125 E. SuttenBdd St.. President: Maurice J. DeWald, '33, Z41E Huburtus. St., Secretary. 
GOGEBIC RANGE Francis J. Vukovich, '35, Ridee St., Iron­wood, Mich., President: John C. SQUivmn, '22, 10 Newport Heishts, Ironwood, Mich.. Secretary. 
GRAND RAPIDS Earl Leach, '29, 641 E. Leonard St, Presi­dent; A. John Alt ex. '34, 628 Tamer Ave., Secretary. 
More than 50 Notre Dame alumni and their guests attended the stag dinner and entertainment program presented April 25 in the Swiss room of the Pantlind Hotel in conjunction with the 14th annual Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Judge Joseph Sanford, LL.B., '21, of Muskegon, district governor of the Notre Dame alumni clubs, was the principal speaker. He spoke on the spirit of Notre Dame. 
"Notre Dame has been known for its spirit, both in football and in spir­itual matters. This spirit is some­
June, 1938 

thing which can never be taken away from US and something which thou­sands of men would give their last dollar to have been imbued with," he said. 
Ray Bonini acted as toastmaster and introduced several of the guests including Joe Riley and John Freder­ick, of Muskegon, and Joe Zwers, of Grand Rapids, football captain of 1937. S. Jerome Roach, now a pro­fessor at Catholic Junior College here, introduced several entertain­ment numbers featuring song hits which he. wrote for Campus Silhou­ettes, a presentation of Catholic Junior College. 

After the program the club listened to the radio broadcast of Universal Notre Dame Night from Washington with the Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, as the main speaker. Immediately following the national program the club spon­sored 15 minutes over the local sta­tion. This time was devoted to ques­tions and answers pertaining to Notre Dame. President Earl E. Leach was in charge of the broadcast, and Tom Roach and George Ludwig asked and answered the questions. 
At the monthly meeting May 4 the members voted to have it the last meeting until fall when the boys plan on carrying out several projects. Mat­ters taken up at the last meeting in­cluded a picnic during June in honor of the local graduates, plans for a group of members to attend the grad­uation and plans to attend the annual day retreat. 
John Flanagan. 

GREATER LOUISVILLE 
Robert Burke, '36, 2114 Douglass Blvd., Louisville, President: Paul Martersteck, '34, 2303 Burwcll, Louisville, Secretary. 

GREEN BAY. WISCONSIN Norbert Christman. '32, 1113 Lawe St , 
President; A. E. Biebel, '31, 112 S. Wash­
ineton St, Secretary. 

HAMILTON. OHIO 
H. O. Bums, '86. 338 S. Second St, Presi­dent; Mare A. Fiehrer, '27, 701 Rentschler Bide., Secretary. 

HARRISBURG John J. McNeill. '33, 358 S. 13th Street President: Richard J. O'Donnell, '31, 615 N. 18th Street Secretary. 
John McNeill. '38, is the new pres­ident of the Harrisburg Club, accord­ing to information sent (just too late for the May ALUMNUS) by Dick O'Donnell, '31, the new secretary-treasurer. Walter J. Lutz, ex. '33, is the new vice-president-
Dick sent the Notre Dame line-up for the first annual dinner of the Catholic college alumni of central Pennsylvania, which the Notre Dame dub sponsored so successfully on Universal Night. Notre Dame men present included: Edward B. Bailey, '22; Harry P. Breslin. '17; Frank Barbosh. '37; John H. Clark, '34; Daniel B. Conlin. '33; Thomas Carfagno. '24; Cletus Coyne, '07; William A. A. Castellini, 22; Charles 
M. Dougherty, '26; J. R. Fannell, '15; Roderick J. Gillis, '37; William 
A. Gorman, '27; A. R. Graham, '26; Joseph J. Greeley, '27; J. M. Gzorda, '31; J. F. Harrigan, '28; Leon Hufnagel, '35; Clarence J. James, '15; Robert M. Johnston, '33; Leo R. Mclntyre, '28; John McHugh, '30; John O'Connor, '34; Thomas Price, '31,'30; Henry Rehm, '22; Vin­cent J. Schneider, '25; Frank J. Sek­inger, '99; Edward C. Smith, '01, Edward C. Smith, Jr., '36, and Thomas Pacini, '32. 
Dick O'Donnell. 

HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.) 
Joseph A. Lauerman, 'SI. 1975 Riverside 
Ave.. Marinette. Wis., President: Francis C. 
Boyce, ex. '32. 1401 First Ave., S., Esca­
naba, Micli., Secretary. 
HOUSTON 
Cliarles S. Atchison, er. '30, 418 W. Ala­
bama Street, President: Raymond B. Keat­
ing, '35. 1805 Sterline Bids., Secretary. 
INDIANAPOLIS Arthur C. Shea. '22, 256 N. Meridian. President: Francis J. Noli, '31. 1655 N. Alabama St., Secretary. The presence in Indianapolis of Ambrose A. O'Connell, '07, executive assistant to the Postmaster General of the United States, to participate in the dedication of the new wing of the Federal Building on May 22, was the occasion for a Sunday breakfast in his honor, sponsored by the Indian­apolis Club. 
Notwithstanding the early hour the gathering at the Claypool Hotel was gay and sparkling. Leroy Keach, Jim Deery and Tom Jones knew Am­brose at Notre Dame and they all had a special sort of a reunion. Pat Manion arrived on the scene with Postmaster General James A. Farley, who had a pleasant greeting for each one of the 30 or so alumni and old students seated around the table. 
Peter C. Reilly, Indiana's illustri­ous business leader and philanthropist and a member of the University's Board of Lay Trustees, was a distin­guished guest and favored the group with some of his impressions of "Notre Dame of Today." 
Indiana Supreme Court Justice Michael F. Fansler, accompanied by his nephew and namesake, who is ear­marked for Notre Dame some eight years hence, entei-tained with remi­niscences of the "immortal" 1900's. 
Bill Mooney, Jr., John Welch, Leo Welch (father of Leo, Jr., who grad­uated this June), Al Feeney, Albert Smith, and Frank P. McCarthy ably represented their individual classes. Ex-presidents Charles Mason and William Krieg, vice - president - elect Joe Argus, Jr., (rapidly recovering from a severe illness), and Jim Col­lins, were present and seemed to enjoy themselves. Taking an active part in the informal conversations were Bill and Case Konop, Larry and Joe Sexton, Pat Fisher, Joe McNa­mara and Joe Beck. 
Some Scattered Items: Bemie Loef. fler represented the Indianapolis Club at the alumni clubs' meeting during Commencement. 
Joe Brandy was in Indianapolis for a few weeks during some litigation in which he was interested. 
Bob Shea, ex-Indianapolis, departed for another prolonged visit abroad as the European representative of his New York law iirm. 
Bill Konop is heir-expectant next month. 
Add sons of illustrious fathers: Roy Keach, 1940. 
Jim Collins, '25, was recently ap­pointed to the Indiana Public Service Commission. 
Bill Barton, Roy Keach, Jr., Jim Rocap, Jr., Tom Gillespie — all In­dianapolis undergraduates, joined the club for lunch on Monday, June 6. 
J. W. Hannon, Bell Telephone ex­ecutive, a warm and true friend of Notre Dame, is rapidly recovering from a severe attack of pneumonia. 
Arthur C. Shea, (pinch hitting for Frank Noll, secretary) 
JACKSON, MICHIGAN 
Walter Duccy, '17. 339 W. Morrel! St.. Pres­
ident: Edw-ard T. O'Neil. '26. Wildwood 
Apts., Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of Jackson 
celebrated Univei-sal Notr e Dam e 
Night with a dinner for the alumni 
and their wives at Meadow Lark Inn, 
Jackson. Thirty-four people attended 
the dinner, and among the old timers 
in attendance were George Regan, 
varsity letter man of '14; George 
Scales, track man and letter man in 
'04; as well as Bern Daley, manager 
of athletics at the turn of the cen­
turj-. 
Walt Dusey, president of the club presided, and Les Wisda handled ar­rangements. 
E. T. O'Neil. 

JOLIET, ILLINOIS 
Thomas P. Fecly. '32. GI6 Buell Ave.. Presi­dent; Lawrence J. Dunda. ex. '33, 354 N. Raynor Ave.. Secretary. 
KANSAS 
Albert J. Gebert. '30, U. of Wichita. Wich­ita. Kansas. President: Dan Welchons, '30. 623 Elm St . Ottawa. Kansas, Secretary. 
KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) 
John J. O'Connor, '34. 4133 Mercier St.. Kansas City. Mo.. President: Norman M. Bmves. '33. 5525 Roclchill Road. Kansas City. Mo.. Secretary. 
LA PORTE, INDIANA 
Norman E. Dulce, '34. 304 Niles St.. Presi­
dent : Robert E. Quinn. ex. '36. 1401 Monrae 
St.. Secretary. 
LOS ANGELES Douglas Daley, '30, 781 Ceres Ave., Presi­dent: Thomas Ashe. '31. 7110 Middleton St. -Huntington Park, Calif., Secretary. 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
P. E. Burlce. '88, 307 Csmp St. New Or­leans, I.a., President: Cyprian A. Sporl, Jr.. 
•28, Whitney-Central Bld^.. New Orleans. La., Secretary. .. . 
MANILA 
Alfonso Ponce Emile, '05. Uanila. Presi­
dent; Gonxmlo R. Valdd. 'S5. 709 San Sfar­
celino. Secretary. 
MEMPHIS 
Galvin Hudson. '15. Parkview Hotd, Prasi­
dent: Bailey Walsh, ex. '27. Colombian Mu­
tual Tower. Secretary. 
MIAMI, FLORIDA 
Vincent C. Giblin, '18. 4103 Collins Ave.. Miami Beach. President: Daniel J. Lino. ex. 
•34. 1617 N. W. Ninth Ave.. Miami, Secre­tary. 
MILWAUKEE 
John Clander, '34, 121S Vliet St, President: John Jaeser. '33, 1628 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaulcee, Secretary. 
MONTANA 
Hush O'Keefe. '31. 321 Walker St. Butte. President: Ray Cowles. '3T, 213 N. Idaho St . Butte.. Secretary. 
NASHVILLE 
Kennedy Jones. *30. Jones Chemical Co.. Secretary. 
NEW JERSEY 
£>-• Paul A. O'Connor. '31, Newark City Hosiptal, Newark. President: John R. Blan­da, '31, 172 Passaic St . Passaic, Secretary. 
The following will give you a few of the latest events of the New Jer­sey Club: 
At the meeting held on Hay second. Dr. Paul "Bucky" O'Connor was unanimously elected president of the club for the 1938-39 season; and those elected to serve with him are Jack Winberry, vice-president; Jack Blanda, secretary; and Tom Flynn, treasurer. In this group we have four, of the best men for their jobs, and the club is sure to prosper with their leadership. 
We have decided to hold our an­nual Retreat at the Bedemptorist Retreat House for men at West End Long Branch, New Jersey, and the exact date and other arrangements are being made by the chairman of the affair, IM Jandoli. A large ma­jority of those present at the meet­ing have indicated their intention to attend the Retreat this coining season. 
We all listened with great atten­tion to the letters from Father O'Hara and Art Haley which were read by Bucky O'Connor. These letters were in answer to the dab's inquiry on the football ticket distribution meth­ods, and they led to a lengthy dis­cussion of the subject by the mem­bers. Mike Buhko was selected to represent our group at the Metropol­itan Club meeting and discuss the matter with them. 
Frank Reilly was appointed chair­man of our annual Spring Dance, and he has chosen Friday, June 24, as the day to hold it at the Forest Hills Country Club in Belleville, New Jersey. 
We have added a few new mem­bers to our club in the persons of 
Jack Adams, Bob Ryan, Joe Schilling, and George 0*Bricn. 
Ruts Riley, one of our leading-members and ex-president, has been elected city commissioner in Orange, New Jersey, where he polled the high­est vote of all candidates. 
Pete Quinn, our present leader, is being married on June 11, with Dave Fi'oelich, Drs. George Hewson, Paul O'Connor, and Jerry Hayes serving in his bridal party. 
Phil J. Heinle. 
NEW YORK CITY 
Danid J. O'NeH. '25. 101 Cooper St. Presi­dent: Robert A. Hamilton, '28, 63 Wall St.. Secretarj'. 
A mimeographed directory of the executive officers, the Board of Gov­ernors and the committees of the No­tre Dame Club of New York has just been produced and distributed. It contains the name, address and tele­phone number of each man. 
The club committees appointed by the president at the Board of Govem­ars' meeting on May 10 were as fol­lows: 
Scholarship—Ed Tighe, chairman; Jim Dwyer, John Balfe, Jack Jordan, Gene Lounsberry. 
Publicity, Public Relations and Mailing Lists—Bob Hamilton, chair­man; Coleman O'Shaughnessy, Don Sehl, Jordan Hargrove. 
Admission and Dues — Leo Mc­Laughlin, chairman; Jim Rizer, Jim Kirby. 
Charities and Catholic Action — John Hinkel, chairman; P. J- Mahol­chic, John McGrath. 
Outing and Sports—^Dan Halpin, chairman; John Roche, Maury An­drews, Jim Nolan. 
Employment and Placement—John Balfe, chairman; Hugh O'Donnell, Ray ScanUn, Charles Gorman, Frank Wachsmuth. 
Retreat — Bill Daunt, chairman; Norb Gelson, Flo McCarthy. 
Finance — John Balfe, chairman; Jim Rizer, Joe Friel, Tom Hughes. 
September Meeting — Introduction of New Alumni — Jim Rizer, chair­man; Ed Fallon, Henry Frey. 
October Meeting—25th Annivers­ary of N.D.-Army Game — The ex­ecutive officers. 
October Meeting—Navy Game and Trip—Warren Fogel, chairman; Flo McCarthy, Henry Frey. 
November Meeting—Ray Scanlan, chairman; Bill Cronin, Ed Tighe. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA Panl J. Cushins. '31. 1221 Central Bank 
Bide.. Oakland. Calit. President; Paul M. 
Enrieht. '31, Central Bank Bids-, Oakland, 
Calif., Secretary. 
NORTHERN LOUISIANA Arthur J. Kane. '31, 307 Wilkinson, Shrere­port. President: James R. Nowery, '29, • 
P. O. Box 1S45, Shreveport, Secretary. 
Norih Iowa 
[new club) 
OKLAHOMA 
Joseph A. Moran. '32, 1611 S. Carson. Tulsa. 
President: Marian J. Blake, '33, National 
Bank of Tulsa Bids., Tulsa. Secretary. 
A bit of news about the broadcast sponsored by the Oklahoma Club over station KVOO, Tulsa, on Universal Notre Dame Night. 
The broadcast, which was for 15 minutes, was announced by Mr, Hillis Bell, who attended Notre Dame for two years, 1920 to 1922. Mr. Bell while at Notre Dame was active in the Glee Club and the Band. For the former, he alternated with Joe Casa­santa as piano soloist and accompan­ist. After leaving Notre Dame, Mr. Bell attended Oklahoma University, where he received an A.B. degree in geology in 1924 and his M.S. in the same subject in 1926. At present he is in charge of all advertising over KVOO, Tulsa. Mr. Bell was married in 1928 to Tola Blust of Dallas and is now the proud father of two sons, one nine years old and the other nine months. Believe it or not, his wife's name is now Tola Bell. 
Mr, Bell and I took part of an­nouncer and alumus, respectively, in a three-minute dialogue. 
J. A. La Fortune, a South Bend boy who came w^est and made an out­standing record for himself, gave a short history of Notre Dame's prog­ress. Mr. La Fortune was a class­mate of Father Hugh O'Donnell, and it was the former who gave Father, Art Haley and Elmer Lay den a large banquet at the Tulsa Club. Mr. La Fortune left Notre Dame in 1918, but his knowledge of Notre Dame dates back some 20 years further because his father worked for Notre Dame some 25 years. 
Mr. La Fortune is vice-president of the Warren Petroleum Corporation and is president of the Natural Gaso­line Association, serving at the pres­ent time his second term. The Asso­ciation is a national organization and it is a real honor to be elected twice to its highest office. Mr. La Fortune is a real Notre Dame man and has been most loyal to Notre Dame. Frank Reidy of the 1937 class is now working for the Warren Petroleum Corporation and has been since last June. 
The main speaker of the program was Judge Thomas Daniel Lyons who won the Breen Medal in 1902. In 1904 he was a member, with Byron Kanaley and Father Maurice Griffin, of the Notre Dame debating team which defeated Oberlin. At the Com­mencement exercises in 1904, which were graced by the presence of Car^ dinal SatoUi and Attorney General Charles Jerome Bonaparte, Mr, Lyons had the honor of delivering one of the bachelor orations. Mr. Lyons was also editor-in-chief of the Scholastic in 1904. In 1907 Mr. Lyons received his LL.B. from the University of South Dakota. He served on the Ap­pellate Court of Oklahoma, 1923 to 1936, and on the District Bench of Oklahoma, Tulsa County, 1933-1935. At present, he is a candidate for dis­trict judge. 
Mr. Lyons gave a most enlightening address on what Notre Dame stands for and has meant to the world, and the ideals lived up to by Notre Dame men. In closing his talk he spoke about the religious side of Notre Dame and its part on the Notre Dame campus. He concluded his address by giring Longfellow's sonnet to Dante, which I believe is most fitting to Notre Dame. I am taking the liberty of copying it for you. 
I lift mine eyes, and all the windows blaze 
With forms of Saints and holy men who died. Here martyred and hereafter ;;lorified; And the srrcat Rose upon its leaves displays 
Christ's Triumph, and the angelic roundelays. With splendor upon splendor multiplied: And Beatrice asain at Dante's side No more rebukes, but smiles her words of 
praise. And then the orpan sounds, and unseen choirs Sinff the old Latin hj-mns of peace and love And benediction of the Holy Ghost: And the melodious bells amon;; the spires O'er all the house-tops and throuRh heaven 
above Proclaim the elevation of the Host, 
Joseph A. Moran, whom you know well, introduced Mr. Lyons to the radio audience. You may be inter­ested to know that Joe is running for the office of state representative. 
Carl J. Senger. 
OREGON Barney McNab, '25, Terminal Sales Bids., Portland. President: Natt McDouRall, Jr., '33, 45 S. W. First Avenue. Portland, Sec­retary. 
PARIS lioais P. Harl. '16, Paris Office, New York Herald-Tribune, Paris. France, President. 
PEORIA William J. Motsett. '34. 616 Biselow St.. President: Richard H. Delaney. '37. 220 N. Glenwood. Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of Peoria held a meeting on May 26 for the purpose of electing officers for the coming year. After a good dinner at the University Club, Bill Motsett was elected president, John Sloan, vice-president, and Dick Delaney, sec­retary and treasurer. 
Al Gury has done a splendid job during the past and, in answer to a vote of thanks, promised to give all the assistance that he can to the new officers. 
The first plans of the new presi­dent were directed towards the an­nual picnic that will be held this year at Dr. Ward's farm. Leo Cavanaugh was appointed chairman, with Ernie Hechinger, Ed Flanagan and Al Gury to assist him with the arrangements. 
Dick Delaney. 

June. 1938 
PHILADELPHIA ailtord E. Prodchl. '32. 6070 Chester Ave.. President: John J. Reilly, e-x. '33, 5S21 Anderson St., Secretary-
PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
E. J. Hilkert, '22, 402 Title & Trust Bide.. Phoenix, President. 
RHODE ISLAND & SOUTH. MASS. 
John McKiernan. '31. 1231 Industrial Trust Bld^.. PnA'idence. R. I.. President: Charles Grimes. '20. R.F.D. Manville. Grants Mills. R.I-, Secretiirj*. 
Alumni of Rhode Island and South­eastern Massachusetts met on June 6 at the Nan-agansett Hotel and elect­ed these officers: President, John S. McKiernan, '34, Providence; vice-president, John J. McLaughlin, '34, Cumberland Hill, R. 1.; secretary, Charles A. Grimes, '20, Grants Mills, 
R. I.; treasurer, Leo R. McAIoon, '26, Pawtucket, R. I. 
The club made preliminarj^ plans for the sixth annual trip to the Notre Dame-Army game in New York and arranged to entertain present and prospective students of Notre Dame at the seashore during the summer. The club also discussed plans for par­ticipating in one of the three Retreats for laymen to be held at Holy Cross Seminar}', North Easton, Massachu­setts, this summer. 
Jack McLaughlin was the object of felicitous banter. Busy in the bever­age and construction lines, his en­gagement to Miss Helen Slattery has been announced with the wedding date set for October 17. 
Charles A. Grimes. 

ROCHESTER (New York) 
D. Bernard Hennessey, '34. 119 Bedford St.. President: Gerard Farrell. '34, 447 Thurston Road, Secretary. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Illinois) 
Ralph F. HcBcr. '25, 1351 W. Stoner St., Freeport, HI., President: Robert Dixon, '25, Frecport, HI., Secretary. 
SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) Thomas F. Van Aarle. '21, Standard Oil Co., Safflnaw, Mich., President: Williani C. Hur­ley. '25. 117 Cherry St.. Saginaw, Mich.. Secretary. 
SAN ANTONIO John A. Bitter. '30. 302 Castano. San Antonio. President; Dudley R. Walker, Jr.. ex. '38. 138 Katherine Court, San Antonio. Secretary. 
SANDUSKY. OHIO diarla H. Houcb, '25, 925 W. Washington Street. President; Russell R. Smith. '28, 2117 Monroe Street. Secretary. 
SCRANTON Robert A. Golden. '32, 216 Colfax Ave., President; Thomas F. Leahy. '23, 416 Chamber of Commerce Bids.. Secretary. 
SOUTHWESTERN CONNECTICUT John C. Redgate. '30. 92 Aldine Ave., Bridgeport, President: Dr. Thomas J. Tara­sovic, '32, 49 Dover St., Bridgeport, Secre­tary. SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS Oliver Field. '31. 101% S. Walnut St, President: Walter Bernard, '36, 815 S. Wal­nut St, Secretary. 
On May 8, the Springfield Notre Dame Club held its annual Mother's Day Breakfast. 
Twenty members of the club re­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ceived Communion in a body at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Concep­tion at the 7:30 Mass, and afterwards went to the Leland Hotel for break­fast. 
Father Thomas Lahey from Notre Dame was the celebrant of the Mass, and also the guest of honor at the breakfast. Father Lahey gave a talk on "Mother's Day," "Happenings at Notre Dame," and on his travels through China, Japan, and Hawaii. 
After the breakfast several of the members showed Father Lahey the principal points of interest in the city, including Lincoln's home and his tomb. 
Plans are being made for a party to be held at the Knights of Colum­bus in the near future. A committee for this function will soon be ap­pointed. 
Walter E. Bernard. 

ST. LOUIS 
John J. Hohan. '36. 632 Vogel Place. East S t Louis. 111.. President; Paul Brumby, ex. '34, 915 Pierce BIdg., Secretary. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Dillon Patterson. '20. J.M.S. Bldg.. South Bend. Indiana. President: CTarence Harding. '25. South Bend Tribune. Soi!»h Bend. Ind.. Secretary. 
Election of officers for 1938-39 was held at a meeting of the newly elected board of directors in the offices of re­tiring president, Louis C. Chapleau. The results of the election were as follows: 
Honoraiy president, Dudley M. Shively; chaplain. Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C.; president, Dillon 
J. Patterson; vice-president, Frank Miles; secretarj', Clarence W. Hard­ing; treasurer, R. Floyd Searer; as­sistant treasurer. Jack Shively; chair­man of board, Louis C. Chapleau. 
The annual golf day was held Thursday, May 12, at the Coquillard Golf Club. This is the partj' Elmer Layden and his athletic department manage each year for our club. From the standpoint of attendance and entertainment this one eclipsed all others. After dinner, which was served in the club dining room, prizes were drawn for. Elmer had a prize for almost everyone (especially the coaching staff). While the weather was a little cold for good golf, it was ideal for other forms of locker-room activity. Club officers were gratified to see so many guests and extend to Elmer and his committee their thanks for a swell job. 
To observe the resumption of ath­letic relation with the University of Michigan the St. Joseph Club spon­sored a joint meeting ivith Michigan alumni Saturday noon. May 21, in the Hotel LaSalle. Guests of honor and principal speakers were basebal l coaches Ray Ksher, of Michigan, and Jake Kline of Notre Dame. Bob Proctor, toastmaster, called on promi­
253 

nent Michigan and Notre Dame alum­ni for short talks. The meeting ad­journed to Cartier Field to watch a thrilling baseball game which Notre Dame won in the tenth inning, 3-2. Frank Miles and Bill Sheehan, old baseballers themselves, did a splen­did job in arranging the affair. 
More than 100 couples, among them many members of the 1938 graduating class, attended the dab's annual spring dance. The affair, a little later this year than usual, was held Friday evening, June 3, at Mel­ody Gardens. Large i)arties which had reserved tables included many old alumni who had returned for Commencement the following Sunday. 
Clarence W. Harding. 

SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
Donald Sheehy. '33. 104 Claim Av e Syra­
cuse. President: William S. Cate, '27, 136 
Harding Place, Syracuse. Secretary. 
TIFFIN, OHIO 
C. J. Schmidt '11, 260 Melmore St, Presi­dent: Pred J. Wagner, '29. 152 SjamormSt. Secretary. 
TOLEDO 
Ray Tillman, '25, 2027 Bretton Place, Pres­ident; Joe Wctli, '31, 717 Starr Avenua Secretary. 
TRI-CITIES (IlUnoU-Iowa) 
George Uhlmeyer, '23, Peoples' Light Co.. Moline. 111.. President: Elmer W. Bestea. '27, 1711 W. Sixth St, Davenport loT»a, Secretary. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
William G. Yeagcr. '34. 18 Vine St . Bing­hamton. N. Y., President; James H. Hogan, '34, 62 Mary St, Binghamton, N. Y., Sec­retary. 
A Communion Breakfast, one of the most important activities attempt­ed by the club this year, was held on Mother's Day, May 8, at St. Mary's Church in Binghamton. The Mass was celebrated by Father Frank Har­rison, '33, who offered the Mass for his own mother and the mothers of the members of the club. A break­fast was served in the church hall im­mediately after the Mass, by the young ladies of the parish. Dr. Frank Cavale, '29, John Donnelly, '34, our former president, and Father Harri­son were the speakers. At the sug­gestion of Dr. Cavale it was decided that the Notre Dame men would make this an annual affair. 
.\nother high light of the club's ac­tivities was a smoker given in honor of Jimmy Crowley, '25, coach of Fordham. Jimmy was here in the city as the principal speaker at a Holy Name banquet. Regis McNa­mara, '32, and Dan McAvoy, '26, were instrumental in getting Jimmy for the club. The smoker was held in the Art Gallery of the Arlington Hotel and it was a most sociable oc­casion as the party didn't break tip until quite early in the morning. By the way. Regis is head of the State Parks in this district, and Dan Mc­-\voy is the district attorney of Broome County. 
Dr. John O'Brien, '29, has started practicing medicine in the city and we expect to see a lot of him. 
Ted Griffin, '29, is doing a Clark Gable act in a local musical comedy being put on by the Little Theater Group of Binghamton. Ted, you know, captained the Notre Dame ten­nis team in '28. 
Bill Page is assisting Rev. Joseph 
B. Toomey in the publication of "The Good Neighbor"—a local paper deal­ing with the Catholic Activities in the Triple Cities. 
Dr. Ted Gubuski, '34, expects to be in Binghamton for Memorial Day. Ted graduated from Jefferson Medi­cal College this month and he is to interne at St. Vincent's Hospital, Erie, Pennsylvania, starting July 3. 
Bob McCabe, '36, is to teach Latin and typewriting in the Johnson City high school in the fall. 
Tom Burke, '32, has just an­nounced his marriage. He has been holding out on us. 
Don Kennedy, '20, and Joe Hunt are the two golf hounds of the club. They have great hope of taking the local doubles championship this year. They have just returned from Sj'ra­cuse after exhibiting their skill. 
Bill Hagan, '32, Bill Yeager, '34, and John Donnelly are making plans for an afternoon outing for the mem­bers of the club. The local students at Notre Dame are to be guests of the club at this affair. 
Jim Hogan. 
TRI-STATE (Ind.-in.-Ky.) 
E. Brown Miller, *24, Southern Commercial Corp., Citizens Bank Bide.. Evansville. Ind.. President; Dr. Wm. J. Endress, '25. 301 Grant Street, Evansville, Ind.. Secretary. 
TUCSON, ARIZONA 
Vincent HenRcsbach. ex. '27. 1710 E. 2nd SL, Tucson. President; Ted A. Witz. ex. '29. Box 
628. Tucson. Secretary. 
TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) 
Percy Wilcox, '23, Minneapolis General Elec Co., Minneapolis. Minn., President; Arnold Klein. Jr.. '32, 1612 25th Ave.. No., Minne­apolis, Secrcta,ry. 
UTAH Raymond R. Brady. '24. 20S Keams Bide.. Salt Lake City. President; Cyril Harbecke, 
•19, 64 F. St.. Salt Lake City, Secretary. 
UTICA, NEW YORK 
Dr. John F. Kellcy, '22. Peoples Gas & Elec­tric Bids., President; Joseph W. Fullem, '31, 1621 Neilson SL. Secretary. 
WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Paul Kennedy, '24, Tcmpleton. Ind.. Presi­dent; Emmett Ferguson, '32, Wallace Bldg., Lafayette, Ind., Secretarj'­
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Robert Cavanaugh. '36. 4450 Volta Place, N.W.. President; Murray A. Russell, Jr., ex.. '32, 6606 Bamaby St.. N.W., Secretary. 
WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT 
John Robinson. '28. 32 Farmington Ave-President: James M. Monaghan. '27. 44 Ayer St.. Secretary. 
WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA 
Ralph Jorden, *26. Brid^port, Ohio, Presi­dent: Leo J. Kletily, '31. 10-Zone St.. Wheeling:, Secretary. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Hush A. Gallaeher. '30, 1501 McFarland Road. Mount Lebanon. President; Donald Martin, '33, 204 S. Graham St., Pittsburgh, Secretarj*. 
WEST VIRGINIA 
HuKh J. Lodcr, ex., '32, 104 Capitol Street, Charleston, President; John Ckckley, '37, 1521 Lee St., Charleston, Secretary. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 
Thomas E. Meade, '32, 3321 Cascadia Ave., Seattle, President; August von Baecklin, '34, 74 East Road. Tacoma, Secretary. 
WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
Sister Elizabeth Scton, S.C., M t St. Joseph, Ohio, President; Sister M. Angelicc, B.V.M., St. Joseph Convent, Mt. Cnrmel, Dubuque, Iowa, Secretary. 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Moran, *29. 134S Quinn, President; Charles Cushvva, '31. 463 Madera Ave., Secretary. 
CENTENARy SERMON 
(Continued from Page 230) 
to keep the well-beloved daughter closely united with its dearly loved mother. 
" While we wait for this blessed and well-beloved hand to become the property and the treasure of Notre Dame du Lac, may God grant that hand ad multos annos the key to His treasures, to enrich therewith all these poor children who cry out to it, and every day may it bless all your children beyond the seas who kiss it with respect and love, and especially mav it bless, Your humble son in J.M.J., E. Sorin, C.S.C." 
Thanks Apostolic Delegate 
I cannot conclude this morning without thanking His Excellency the Most Keverend Amleto Giovanni Cic­ognani. Apostolic Delegate to the United States, for the signal honor he has conferred upon us all by pre­siding at the University of Notre Dame's celebration of the centenary of the Congregation of Holy Cross. I take this occasion to thank Your Ex­cellency in the name of the priests and brothers of Holy Cross, in the name of the faculty and students of Notre Dame, in the name of the graduating class of 1938. To yon and to the saintly and much-tried Pontiif whom you so worthily represent, we pledge our loyalty and our love. 
Filial submission to Christ's Vicar, to the See of Peter, has ever been a distinctive characteristic of Holy Cross, of Notre Dame and of all Notre Dame sons. Shortly after founding Holy Cross, Father Moreau wrote to all his spiritual sons and daughters and to the students of all our schools, including those of Notre Dame begging them to offer their prayers, works and sufferings for His Holiness, the sorely tried, Pius IX. 
From that day to this the Holy Cross tradition, Your Excellency, the tradition of Notre Dame as a conse­quence, is to yield to no one in loyalty to Christ's Vicar. That loyalty, through you, I pledge His Holiness Pius XI. today. May it console His Holiness in the midst of his many sorrows. That loyalty is all the easier at this moment in world history be­cause we see in His Holiness Pius XI. the only clear-eyed, courageous and outspoken champion of the rights of the individual and the family against the tyrannies oppressing humanity today. 
So today, a century after the foun­dation of the Congregation of Holy Cross, the University of Notre Dame offers Basil Anthony Moreau its love, its devotion, its undying gratitude. We thank him for his prayers, his labors, his sufferings for Holy Cross. 
Across the waters we reverently look to the rock from which we are hewn and to the hole of the pit from which we are dug out. Today, Notre Dame du Lac reverently greets the mother who bore her, Notre Dame de Sainte-Croix. Our Lady of the Stars salutes Our Lady of the Swords be­holding her as the sacred and ever-to-be treasured bond uniting Holy Cross in America to its Founder and Father in God, even as she holds in­dissolubly united all our provinces, establishments and members in the one great, international and Catholic family of Holy Cross. 
AMATEUR RADIO 
All Notre Dame graduates inter­ested in amateur radio who are oper­ating their own stations at the present time are invited to write the alumni secretary gi^'ing him infoi-mation as to their call letters, operating sched­ule, and frequencies used — stating whether phone or c.w. 
This is the suggestion of W8AVH, station of John A. Kiener, 216 Corn­wall road. Rocky River, Ohio, class of '32, who operates on the 20, 40, and 75-meter bands, both phone and 
c.w. John has been appointed emer­gency coordinator for Greater Cleve­land and is especially interested in contacting fellow Notre Dame grad­uates. 
Having had contacts with gl-adu­ates of schools which Notre Dame meets in athletic contests, especially during the football season, John is interested in opening a new avenue of conversation along the ether lanes. As new operators report in their calls to the ALUMNUS, they can be printed for the group's benefit 

1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made of the following engagements: 
Miss Viola M. Kroehl and Edward 

F. Hargan, '26, of Belleville, New Jersey. 
Miss Mary Daniels and George S. Owens, '32, of Niagara Falls, New York. 
Miss Julia J. Gang and William D. Waltz, '32, of Massillon, Ohio. 
Miss Ava Marie Ottman and Wil­liam A. Kennedy, '34, of Brooklyn. 
Miss Mary P. Mahoney and Thomas 

G. Kavanagh, '38, of Detroit. 
Marriages 
Miss Regina McGunigle and Ed­ward J. Reynolds, 'IS, were married, June 1, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Catherine N. Cowhey and Firmin D. Fusz, Jr., '25, were mar­ried. May 24, in St. Louis. 
Miss Dorothea MacDonald and Waller W. Houppert, '25, were mar­ried, February 26, in Detroit. 
Miss Lucy Jane Zent and James Whalen, '26, were married, May 30, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Ann Rita Orgler and Robert 

P. Capesius, '28, of Benvind, West Virginia, were married May 28, and visited the campus, May 30, on their honeymoon. 
Miss Maiy Elizabeth Kerns and John Ramon Hoover, '29, were mar­ried. May 11, in Oak Park, Illinois. 
Miss Virginia C. Richardson and Elections E. Murphy, ex. '29, were married. May 28, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of SEss Jane Eliza­beth Moran and John B. McGee, '30, took place in April, in Lockport, New York. 
The marriage of Miss Elgin Ander­son and Patrick A. McKenna, ex. '30, took place, May 17, in Tulsa, Okla­homa. 
Miss Margaret Bozzella and Louis 
W. Esposito, '31, were married, April 18, in Woodhaven, New York. 
The marriage of Miss Mary Louise Berryhill and James B. O'Shangh­nessy, '32, took place in Chicago, May 28. 
Miss Estelle M. Penote and Cyril 
P. Entrup, '33, were married. May 28, in Cleveland. 
The marriage of Miss Blanche Mc-Govem and Anthony J. Pugliese, '33, took place, April 18, in Pittsburgh. 
Miss Anna Marie Reid and Joseph 
A. Brady, ex. '34, were married, June 8, in South Bend. 
The marriage of Jliss Cecilia Jan­esheski and George Murphy, '34, took place. May 2, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Mary Stehle and William J. Rockenstein, '34, were married, May 21, in Butler, Pennsylvania. 
Miss Lorayne Ethel Stouffer and Walter J. O'Brien, '35, were married. May 19, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The man-iage of Miss Jane Hvid­feldt and Francis L. Layden, ' 36, took place, June 4, in Davenport, Iowa. 
Miss Mary Louise Wills and Robert 
D. Malamey, '36, were married, June 7, in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Helen Smo­gor and John Brassell, '37, took place June 4, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Elizabeth C. McDermid arid Arthur Dennis Cronin, Jr., '37, Were married, June 4, in Niagara Falls, New York. 
Miss Mary Louise O'Neill and Bernard G. Quirk, '37, were married. May 14, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Birfhs 
A son, Philip Allan, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Howard R. Parker, '17, on March 28, in San Francisco. 
A son, James Richard, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. William Cemey, '25, on May 2, in South Bend. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Brennan, '27, in Park Ridge, Illinois. 
A daughter, Carman Clare, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Ermin E. Reich, ert, '27, of Long Prairie, Minnesota, on May 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Hasley, '28, announce the birth of a son, John HoefBer, April 28, in Fort Wayne. 
A son, Patrick Dennis, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Joseph E. Keefe, '29, January 30, in Winter Haven, Flor­ida. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. McMahon, '29, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Judith Ann, on February 5, in Cincinnati. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Jon Beljon, '30, on May 2, in Cleveland, Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs. Earl Brieger, '31, an­nounce the birth of twins, Charles Amd and Gretchen Brune, on May 2, in Pittsburgh. 
A daughter, Joan Mary, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. James L. Mulvaney, '31, on May 2, in Auburn, New York. 
Air. and Mrs. Colman O'Shaugh­nessy, '32, announce the birth of a daughter, Deirdre Lian, on March 30, in Bronxville, New York. 
A son, James J., Jr., was bom, on November 2, 1937, to Mr. and Mrs. James J. Kraus, '33, in Niagara Falls, New York. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. Warren Sehwantes, '33, announce the birth of a son, John Anthony, on May 9, in East Orange, New Jersey. 
A son, William Augustus, H, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Dennis John Hickey. Ill, '36, of St. Louis, Mis­souri, on May 10. 
Deaths 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sym­pathy to Daniel F. Cunningham, Jr., '27, upon the death of his mother; Charles M. Walsh, '27, upon the death of his father; Frank Conboy, '32, upon the death of his father; Ray Naber, '33, upon the death of his father; Louis C. Brown, '34, upon the death of his mother; Vincent Probst, '37, upon the death of his father; 
D. Patrick Buell, '24, upon the death of his father; James P. Swift, '24, upon the death of his father. 
Vincent J. Eck, '15, 45 years old, one of the foremost architects in New Jersey, died suddenly on May 20 after a heart attack in his home in Red Bank. Surviving are Mrs. Eck, a son, three brothers and two sisters. 
Mr. Eck was the architect for the Catholic diocese of Trenton and as such was particularly known for his 
work in designing many outstanding churches, schools and rectories. 
Dr. Daniel Kauffman, 40 years old, a prep student in 1914-16, died in St. Louis, on June 15 as the result of a kidney complication resulting from a throat infection. Dr. Kauffman was a nationally known authority on ar­thritis. 
Gerald J. Jones, well known as an athlete in the immediate pre-War period and a monogram winner in 1916, died recently, according to in­complete information received in the Alumni Office. The records show that Jerry had been assistant coach at the University of Missouri and head coach at Columbia College, Dubuque, Iowa. 
Norman W. Smith, '24, Youngs­town, Ohio, died on -4pril 27 after an illness of several months. He is sur­vived by his wife, a daughter, his parents and five sisters. Norm had been employed by the Youngstown Sheet & Tube Company. In Youngs­town he was a noted high school ath­lete, playing football and captaining the basketball team at South High School. 
John C. Walsh, '32, MassiUon, Ohio, was killed in an automobile accident on May 14, according to information received by Father John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, prefect of religion. The acci­dent happened on the Canton-Massil­lon road. 
Daniel W. Fox, '35, Kenton, Ohio, was another automobile victim in nearby Ohio just a few days before John Walsh was killed. Dan lost his life on May 10. 
Personals 
AMONG THOSE PRESENT 
The Editors are happy to pre­sent, under the classes, the names of those who registered on the campus at any time within the Commencement week-end. As al­ways, there were many who did not register and who, on thai account, cannot be listed here. 
Before 1880 secretary: Hon. T. G. GaJ. 
lasher, Fitcbburs:. Haas. Commencement registrants: Bcatus, Mark—Memphis, Tenn. Vcnnet, Frank H.—South Bend 
1880-1885 Secretary: Prof. Robert H. Anderson, Circleville, Ohio, Commencement registrant: Bertelins, Dr. J. B.—South Bend 
1886 Secretary: Michael O. Bums, 338 S. Second St., Hamilton. Ohio 
1887-1888 Secretary: J. U Heineman, Connersville. Indiana. 
Commencement registrants: 
Konzcn, Frank—Mishawaka, Ind. 
Bums, Very Rev. James A., C.S.C.—N. D. 
Heincman, J. L.—Connersville, Ind. 
For the Universal Notre Dame Night celebration of the Louisiana-Ihlississippi Club, Charles J. Stubbs, '88, K.S.G., Galveston, Texas, wrote the following and sent it to Patrick 
E. Burke, '88 and '89, New Orleans, president of the club. Mr. Stubbs could not be present, but Father Louis Kelly, C.S.C, read the poem for the gathering. In view of the golden an­niversarj' of the '88 class, the print­ing here is especially significant. 
Notre Dame, dear Notre Dame, Renowned in lore, in art, in game, A cem of beauty through the years, A chain of pearls, without the tears. 
Notre Dame, dear Notre Dame, Progressinff always, ere the same, A torch of learning to the world, A beacon to the earth imperilled. 
Notre Dame, dear Notre Dame, Along through fifty years there came Your moral teaching, education. Supporting pillars of a nation. 
Notre Dame, dear Notre Dame, Your glory ere shall be our aim. Your faith divine and hope and love Forever bless you from above. 
Saintly Sorin, blessed Walsh Were first among executives. Great educators were the rest. Numbered now among the blest. 
Hudson, Stoeffel, Fitte. Regan, Taught and toiled when growth began. Zahm, Ewing, Morrissey, Marcelline, Alexander, Lawrence in discipline. 
Sto<]dard, Stacc, Ho>-nes, and Edwards, Lead forever, ever upwards: Mighty intellects, men of courage. Inspiring all in this entourage. 
Bums and Burke and Cavanaugh, Names we hold in reverent awe. Leaders, builders, men of might Forward carrying Christian light. 
O'Briens, Brownson, Goebel, all Beloved with spirit universal: Craig, O'Donnell, Hagenbarth, Souls of honor, men of worth. 
And many more that well deserve Remembrance, brainy men of nerve. Some are here, whilst others sleep. All cherished in affection deep. 
'Twas hundreds then, 'tis thousands now. The moving impulse still must grow. Of Christian virtues great demand Is ever needed in our land. 
'Mid crystal lakes and woodlands green. With stately buildilngs in between. Your noble mission does proclaim Our well beloved Notre Dame. 
Faith, Honor, Love must ere attend True Art and Science to the end. Serve God and country be our aim In memory of o«r Notre Dame. 
1889 Secretary: P. E. Burke. 301 Cunp New Orleans. Louisianiu 

1890-1893 Secretary: Louis P. Chute, 7 Univ. Ave.. Minneapolis. Minn. 
Commencement registrants: 

Crowley, Jerome J.—Chicago Herman. Louis J.—South Bend O'Brien, George L.—South Bend Shively, Dudley—South Bend Dechant, Charles B.—Lebanon, Ohio Maurus, E. J.—Notre Dame 
Tempora and mores administered a blow in the modem manner when Judge Charles B. Dechant, of Leb­anon, Ohio, back for the 45th anni­versary of his graduation, at last re­ports had found it impossible to con­tact Prof. Ed Maurus, lost in the aca­demic processions of the week-end. The ALUMNUS was informed that it was Judge Dechant's first visit in spite of the neighboring state resi­dence. 
The Golden Jubilee reminded the ALUMNUS of an interesting note re­ceived not long since. 
In the desk of Arthur W. Craw­ford, 1888-1892, general manager for 20 years of the Chicago Tribune-New York Dailtj Neivs Syndicate, is a yellow, frayed photograph which he cherishes beyond any material pos­session. It was taken in front of the Main Building in 1889 when the be­loved Father Thomas Walsh was pres­ident. With him stands Fathers Fitte, Zahm and Hudson, surrounded by 200 of Brother CajeUn's boys. Time has since thinned those ranks, but Art points out himself and his brother Will in knee breeches. Near them is the late Charles McPhee and Tom Finerty of Denver, and Frank Cor­nell, aftenvard a professor at the Universitj'. Other boys in the picture who in later years found national fame were Charles Firthman, until his death in 1936 director of the sce­nario department of Paramount Pic­tures; William Anthony McGuire, author and playwright, now with M-G-M; and James O'Neill, brother of Eugene Neill, son of the actor, James O'Neill. Few men are better known to the newspapermen of America than Art. He has traveled from coast to coast since 1918, sell­ing such features as The Gumps and Gasoline Alley. Art's office with the Syndicate is in the Daily News Build­ing, New York Citj'. 
1894 Secretary: Hugh A. O'Donnell, 1 W. 67th St., New York City. 
Hugh O'Donnell, the class secre­tary, was the recipient on May 12 of the Doc Savage .A.ward Medal in rec­ognition and appreciation of his ser­vices to Notre Dame and Notre. Dame alumni. The presentation was made at a dinner session of the Notre Dame writers, editors and publishers group in New York, of which Hugh is hono­rary president. John Nanovic, '30, represented Doe Savage Magazine in the award. 
1895 Secretary: Eustace CuUinan, Sr., 1401 Mills Tower, San Francisco, Calif. Commencement registrant: Schnur. Martin J.—Goshen, Ind. 
Class Secretary Cullinan send s through some information, as fol­lows: 
"John J. Dempsey, of Tacoma, (one of whose hoys, Danaher Demp­«ey, is now a student at Notre Dame), and I, always have a session together on his annual trips through San Fran­cisco headed south; but it's years since I have heard from Dan P. Mur­phy, or Arthur Hudson, of Charles­ton, West Virginia, or Davis of Rock­ford, Illinois. Sam Walker died a few months ago in Seattle, where he had been long established in business. Of Rev. Michael Ryan, of Peoria, I have heard nothing since I saw him on the campus in 1925, when my old­est son, Eustace, Jr., was graduated. I saw Daniel V. Casey in Los Angeles about two years ago but have heard nothing from him since, though he promised then to write occasionally. 
"If the members of the Class will let me hear from them once in a while, I shall be glad to make an oc­casional report to the ALUJINUS. 
"In case you wish information about other CuUinans who are alum­ni, I may add that Eustace Cullinan, Jr., (A.B. 1925) is a partner in the law firm founded by his granduncles in which Senator Hiram W. Johnson is also a partner, and my son Matt 
I. Cullinan (1932) is doing well as the distributor for most of Northern California of a well-known make of gas furnace and air conditioning ap­paratus. 
"With cordial regards to you, to Father James A. Burns, Father O'Hara, and the few other old friends who remain on the campus after 43 year." 
1896 Secretary: William P. Bums, 327 Willard Ave., Michigan City, Indiana. Commencement registrant: MaBuire, Rev. J. A., C.S.C—South Bend 
1897 Secretary: Rev. J. A. MacNamara, St. Jos. Sanitarium, Mt. Clemens, Mich. Commencement registrant: MacNamara. Rev. John A.—Mt. Clemens, Mich. 
1898 Secretary: William C. Kesler, 9th & Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Commencement registrant: Hering. Frank E.—South Bend 
1899 Secretary: Dr. Joseph F. Duane, 418 Jefferson Blvd., Peoria. HL Commencement registrant: Sleiner, Rev. Thomas. C.S.C.—Notre Dame 
1900 
IQQI Secretary: Joseph J. Sullivan, 1300, 139 N. Clark St., Chicago. HI. Commencement registrant: Marr, Rev. George. C.S.C.—Notre Dame 
1902 Secretary: C. C Mitchell, 110 S. Dearborn St., Box 3, Chicago, BL Commencement registrant: Jones, Vitus G.—South Bend 
1903 Secretary: Francis P. Burke, W4 Trust Co. BIdg., Milwaukee. Wis. 
Commencement registrants: 

Carrico. Rev. J. L., CS.C '' Crumley. H. V.—Cincinnati. Ohio McKeever, F. H.—Chicago, III. Pctriti. Frank—Rockford. III. Walsh. Rev. Matthew J. C.S.a—Notre Dame 
1904 Secretary: Robert Proctor, Monger BIdg., Elkhart. Indiana. 
Commencement registrants: Farabaugh. G. A.—South Bend Irving, Rev. Thomas P.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame Kanaley, Byron V.—Chicago Proctor, Robert E.—Elkhart, Ind. 
After many years of seminary teaching Father Mike Shea is now the pastor of St. Augustine's Church in Ossining, New York. And, according to Bill Cotter, who brought the news to Commencement, he is very happy about the change. He hopes to see many of his friends in Ossining — (with reser\'ations, of course, consid­ering the institution for which the city is noted). 
1905 Secretary: Daniel J. O'Connor. 10 S. LaSalle St.. Chicago. HI. Commencement registrant: Jamicson. William D.—Chicago 
1906 Secretary: Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen BIdg., Spokane. Wash. 
Commencement registrants: 
Burke. Rev. Eugene P., CS.C.—Notre Damp Cosgrove. T. B.—Los Angeles. Calif. Doremus, Rev. Charles—Notre Dame Finnegan. Rev. Edw. J., C.S.C.—Notre Dame Gnllagan. Rev. James H., C.S.C.—Indianapolis Hagerty, Rev. Cornelius, C.S.C.—Notre Dame JfcGinn. Rev. John C. C.S.C.—Notre Dame Jlclnerny. J. W.—South Bend McNemey. Lawrence, Elgin. Illinois Ryan. Rev. .lohn. C.S.C—Notre D.-mio 
1907 Secretary: Rev. Thomas E. Burke, 
C.S.C. Notre Dame. Ind. 

Commencement registrants: 
Burke. Rev. Thomas E.. CS.C.—Notre Dame Corcoran. Rev. Wendell. CS.C—South Bend Cunningham. James V.—Chicago Cunningham. Rev. Wm.. CS.C. Portland. Ore. Donahue. Very Rev. J. W.. CS.C—Notre Dame Fox. Oscar—Fort Wayne. Indiana McCarty. Dr. F. B.—Chicago O'Conne'I. Ambrose—^New York City Smith. George A.—Indianapolis. Ind. 
1908 Secretary: Frank X. Cull. Bulkley Building. Cleveland. Ohio 
Commencement registi-ants: 
Berteling. .1. F.—Hamilton. Ont.-irio 
Cripe. Cl.irencG—Buchanan. Michigan 
Kcach. Lerov—Indianapolis. Indian,a 
McCarty. Dr. G. M.—aeveland. Ohio 
Parish, V. A.—Momenco. Illinois 
1909 Secretary: B. F. Cleary, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Commencement registrants: 
Kanaley, John B.—Chicago Martin, Paul R.—Notro Dame McMahon, John B.—Toledo. Ohio Schindlor, John W.—Mishawaka, Indiana 
1910 Secretary: Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 1900 Euclid Ave., Cleveland, Ohio. 
Commencement registrants: 
Hebert. Rev. Peter, CS.C—Notre Dame Miller, M. Harry—-Wilmington. Delaware Misch. Rev. Eilgar, C.S.C.—Notre Dame Moriarty. Rev. M. L.—Cleveland. Ohio Sorg, Claude A.—Middletown, Ohio 
1911 Secretary: Fred Steers, 166S First National Bank BIdg., Chicago. HI. Commencement registrants: Caparo. Prof. J. A.—Notre Dame 
Carey. Rev. William A., CS.C—Notre Dame Carroll. Rev. P. J., C.S.C.—Notre Dame De Landero. Prof. P. A.—Notre Dame Figel, Edward L.—Chicago Forrestal, Rev. Peter, C.S.C.—Notre Dame Funk. Elmo A.—^Anderson. Indiana Hilkert, A. A.—^Akron. Ohio Hughes. Arthur J.—Chicago Lahey. Rev. Tohmas A., CS.G.—Notre Dame Murphy, Jos. B.—Dayton. Ohio Miltner. Rev. Charles C. C.S.C.—Notre Dame O'Hara. Bev. John F.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame Ryan. William R.—Cleveland, Ohio Steers. Fr^—Chicago Tally. John C.—LaGrange. Illinois Welsh. Leo F.—Indianapolis. Indiana Wenninger, Rev. F. J., C.S.C.—Notre Dame 
IQI? Secretaiy: B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth St.. Pittsbursh. Pa. 
Commencement registrants: 
Daly, Hugh—Chicago Duncan, Walter—LaSalle, Illinois McGlynn. Joseph B.—East St. Louis. Illinois Mendez. F. L.—South Bend Phillips, Wendell—Milford, Massachusetts Wrape, Alba—Paragould. Arkansas 
1913 Secretary: James J. Devitt, 921 En­gineers' BIdff., Cevdand. Ohlo^ 
Commencement registrants: 
Broussard. Cyde E.—Beaumont, Texas Burke. Rev. Wm. J., C.S.C.—Notre Dame Cleary. E. P.—Notre Dame Cotter, William E.—New Rochclle. N. Y. Devitt, James R.—Cleveland. Ohio Foley. James T.—Chicago Hayes. C. Byron—Fort Wayne. Ind. Heiscr, Rev. Joseph A.. CS.C—Notre Dame Herr. Jesse J.—Pontiac. Illinois Jellison. Floyd—South Bend Kelley. Rev. John C, C.S.C.—Notre Dame O'Connell. John F.—Chicago O'Hara. James W.—Chicago O'Neil, Thomas F.—^Sliami Beach. Florida Stack. Rev. James J., C.S.C—Notre Dame Trctton. John B.—Los Angeles. Calif. 
1914 Secretary: Frank H. Hayes, 406 Bank of America Bids., Anaheim, Cal. 
Commencement registrants: 
Clements. Walter—South Bend Miller, Ray T.—Cleveland. Ohio Vaughan, Charles—Lafayette, Indiana 
Cecil Birder directed the combined choral clubs of the Colleges of St. Catherine and St. Thomas, in the Twin Cities May 23, in a broadcast through the facilities of the NBC. 
1915 Secretary: James E. Sanford. 1524 Farwell Ave., Chicago. HI. Commencement registrant: Healy. Rev. Kemdt, G.S.C.—Notre Dame 
Among the early applications for September, 1938, was that of Ray J. Eichenlaub, Jr. Eich asks for "hot" and cold piano, folding gas, and ina­door panty," for young Eay, which gives you some idea of Elmer's diffi­culties. 
1Q|c Secretary: Timothy P. Galvin, First Trust BIdg., Hammond, Ind. 
Commencement registrants: 
Gasscnsmith. Rev. F. M., CS.C.—Notre Dame Hiss. Frank J.—South Bend O'Donncll. Rev. Hugh. C.S.C.—Notre Dame Sommerer, Edwin H.—South Bend 
1d17 Secretary: Edward J. McOsker, 104 
S. Union St., Elgin, HI. 

Commencement registrants: 
Finneran, Francis X.—^Notre Dame Gucndling. John—South Bend Kelly, Harry F.—Detroit. Michigan Mahaffey. Fred—Indianapolis. Indiana Voll. Bernard J.—South Bend 
Among the faces missing at Com­mencement was the familiar. Fuehrer­like physiognomy of Daniel E. HU­gartner. But Danny came through with a real excuse for missing his first Commencement since 1917. 
Young Danny is now graduated from high school, that occasion conflicting with Notre Dame's, and is enrolled for September, when the "old man" will have to be on deck to install and instruct. 
John Cassidy has been in the lEd­dle West news recently as special prosecutor in the famous Crabb mur­der trial in Delavan, Illinois. 
1Q23 Secretary: Juhn .\. Lemmcr. UIO— 8th Ave., Escanaba. Mich. Commencement registrants: Boland. Rev. Francis J.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame 
•Murray. Rev. Rasinond. C.S.C.—Notre Dame HoIderiUi, Rev. Geo.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame Riley. Joseph T.—lIuskeKan, Mich. Ronchetti. Peter J.—Lille, France Schock, GeorKe A.—Sauth Bend Williams, Rev. Charles J.—Piper City. Illinois 
tOIQ Secretary: Qarence Bader, 650 Pierce Street, Gary. Indiana. 
Commencement registrants: 
Carroll. Maurice—ICansas City, Missouri Fen'on. Paul—Notre Dame Ha-Tnon. L. V.—South Bend McDonald, Rev. James H.. C.S.C.—Notre D:une 
Professor Paul Fenlon, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Let­ters, and Professor Thomas Madden, '27, of the Department of English, sailed on the Normandie on June 15, for Europe. 
Jerry Flynn is selling insurance for Jim Brennan at 111 W. Washing­ton St., Chicago, to make life easier for a boy and two girls. 
1920 Secretary: Leo B. Ward. 1012 Black Bid e Los AnKeles. Calif. 
Commencement re^strants: 
Brennan. James—ChicaEO FaRan, Vincent—South Bend Farrinjrton, Frank—South Bend Hope, Rev. -Arthur B., C.S.C—Notre Dame Kerver. George G.—Cleveland. Ohio Lisewski, Rev. Stanislaus, C.S.C.—Notre Dame Malone, Grover J.—South Bend Meohan. Ed—South Bend Miller, Walter U.—Defiance, Ohio Moore, E. M.—South Bend O'SuIlivan, Clifford—Port Huron, Michifran Patterson. Dillon—South Bend Ward, Rev. Leo L., CS.C.—Notre Dame 
Leo Ward continues to pull replies to those letters. Here they are: 
"Clifford O'SuIlivan, of the law firm of Walsh, Walsh & O'SuIlivan, Port Huron, Michigan, ^^•rites: 
" 'I believe that I was the first Notre Dame graduate in this city, so there are none of my contemporaries here. I am pleased to report, how­ever, that in late years there has been rather a fair representation from Port Huron at Notre Dame. Mod­estly, I disclaim any credit for this.' 
" 'Except for two years in Chicago, I have, since leaving school, been en­gaged in the practice of law with my present firm and have managed to produce a reasonable competence for myself and my now growing family. Ten years ago I married Theresa Kearney of one of Chicago's sturdy South Side Irish families. We have four children, respectively, Pat, She­ila, John, and Tommy. I am still a member of the church in good stand­ing and have been and continue to be 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
a staunch Republican. This, I be­lieve to be a reasonably accurate ac­count of the course of my destiny since leaving Notre Dame.' 
" 'Last summer Jock Mooney, of Memphis, Tennessee, and his wife spent a few days here with us and we had a delightful visit. Jock, as you probably know, has done exceed­ingly well and has gained consider­able distinction in the state of Ten­nessee. He was a member of the state legislature for a time and when I saw him last summer, he was as­sistant United States district attorney at Memphis.' 
" 'I see Emmett and Harry Kelly of Detroit quite frequently, both of them having summer homes just north of Port Huron. Last summer while on a motor trip in the East, I had a short visit with my old room­mate, Tom DoUard, of Troy, New York. He is connected with the state architect's office in the capital at Al­bany. The only change I could see in him is that he has now only slightly more hair on his head than the late Gabriel D'Annunzio. (I am in no po­sition, however, to boast on this sub­ject myself.)' 
"Harry P. Nester, of the law firm of Connor and Nester, Columbus, Ohio, writes as follows (in part): 
" '. . . Our local club of which I am now president, consists of actual alumni and old students, the latter class prepondei-ating. All told, we number about CO, but oddly enough, the smallest representation is in the group attending between 1916 and 1920. Dick and "Shady" Devine, Dr. Paul Scofield and myself are the only ones of your era. The first named is a news writer for a local paper, while his brother is an appraiser for the lo­cal F.H.A. outfit. Paul Scofield has had a run of extremely tough luck; he has had an extended illness for almost two years and unable to practice. He was going big as a surgeon prior to his incapacity. I haven't seen him for some montlis.' 
" 'You asked me for personal de­tails, so first to the work-a-day angle. My association with Mr. Connor dates back to December, 1920, immediate­ly after I had persuaded the Ohio Bar Examiners to admit me to prac­tice, and has endured ever since. The present firm name has been in exist­ence since 1931. I have had some rather extensive and high-pressure experiences in the practice of law.' 
" 'Whatever modest degree of suc­cess has fallen my way is to be as­cribed to two factors, — luck, and the exigencies of a large family, for innately I am just as lazy as in the pre-War period. Married in Cleve­land in 1923 to the queen of the household (nee O'Hara), our estab­lishment has expanded in its person­
June. 1938 
nel to include two boys and three ^rls, ranging in ages from 15 to 7. Hence, you will understand the ne­cessity of my keeping close to the ofiSce, and the shunning of any no­tions involving extensive vacations or self-entertainment. However, not be­ing handicapped by the element of distance as you are, I have found it possible to get back to Notre Dame nearly every year, usually for a foot­ball game, but these flying visits af­ford time for little else than a hasty inspection of the new buildings, in­cluding the glorified law college.' . . . 
" 'As to politics, my only misstep into this field occurred in 1932, when I undertook to persuade the county electorate to elect me probate judge for an unexpired term. I won the nomination in a field of three Demo­crats, but the local reUef rolls weren't as extensive then as now, and I missed out in the election by a nar­row margin. I realize now that this was the most favorable result. I might never have gotten back to work.' 
"Prom Francis T. (Doc) Walsh, at­torney at law. Campus, Illinois, the following brief report: 
" 'To satisfy you on the proposi­tion of "how the world has treated me since school days," I will briefly say — that I have enjoyed almost 100 per cent health, which is prob­ably the best blessing of the Lord to any of us. Have tried to work as much as they would let me, in the profes­sion. Have married and have two children, viz: one sixth dozen, as­sorted. Everj-body well and happy.' 
"From La Salle, Blinois, J. Ed. Clancy, writes: 
" 'In answer to your letter of March 30, I just wanted to say that I have been out of circulation for over a year as a result of poor health. X am resting at home now, feel pretty fair, only not so strong. It is a mo­notonous experience, but I am trj'ing to make the best of it.' 
" 'Since leaving Notre Dame I have been in the drug business here. My brother Jim is practicing medicine in Hammond, Indiana. Married and has two children. Bill, another brother, is a lawj'er and judge, in Menomi­nee, Michigan. Also married, with one child.' 
" 'The slip horn is tucked away in the attic. I did play for several years with various orchestras around here, but gave it up finally.' 
"Chester D. Freeze, of Los Angeles, writes interestingly from Boston, but without any specific dope. 
"Sherwood Dixon, of the law firm of Dixon, Devine, Bracken and Dixon, Dixon, Illinois, writes: 
" 'Considerable time has ticked its way through the dock- since I last wrote you. Your letter arrived dur­ing the heat of the primary election campaign, when I was very busy on behalf of friends who were candidates for office. Since that ended 1 have been very busy on behalf of myself and family, as we are all hearty eat­ers and require a large supply of daily bread.' 

" 'Although I have occasion to travel a good deal, I seldom meet members of the 1920 class. It is hard for me to remember which class any one belong to, since my intimates were of all classes from 1917 to 1921. My wife and I usually see Jock Moonejr and his very lovely wife when we pass through Memphis. Last summer we called on Mr. and Mrs. Ed Dundon in Ii'on Mountain, Michi­gan, where Ed is state's attorney. In Chicago I often meet Tom Hoban and George Harbert, of our time, and 
M. M. Oshe of an earlier day: they are all executives with the Chicago Title and Trust Company. Occasion­ally I meet others of our era who pi*actice law in or around Chicago. But most of us who were in scTiool together are now going through that period of life wherein we have be­come fairly well established in pro­fessions which require close attention and are occupied with all the prob­lems that growing families can pre­sent. Perhaps, with good fortune, another five or ten years will bring us a little more leisure.' 
" 'As for myself, I lead the life of an ordinarj' country lawyer. Thus far I have escaped bankruptcy and other calamities. I am somewhat ac­tive in Democratic politics, and the Illinois National Guard. I also fish 
— hopefully but without conspicuous success. Sometimes I have to work overtime at the law in order to sup­port my sidelines. Long ago I out­lived the ambition to be rich and fa­mous. All I want to be is happy, and, thus far have been successful in that direction.' 
"Al Uebbing writes from Chicago: 
" 'Your letter arouses my deepest sympathy, for I fully realize what a thankless job it is to be a secretary. Your reminder is timely for the local moving bug has bitten me. The new address will be 7313 Lowe Avenue, Chicago.' 
" 'My personal history is an ideal fingernail sketch. For the first five years after graduation I was on the research staff of the National Aniline & Chemical Co. of Buffalo. Here my work was chiefly on paper colors. The familiar scratch pad yellow and green wrapper of the florist were some of my interests. In 1925 there was a drastic change in the research policy of the National and many alumni fared forth to other fields.' 
" 'My next field of operation was with the Sherwin-Williams Co. of Chicago. Here I was a watchdog of the raw materials department and after a while was transferred to the technical service department.' 
" 'The onset of the depression ush­ered in a change for me also. I am now with the Miner Laboratories, Consulting Chemists, 9 South Clinton Street, Chicago. Industry on review passes through the lab — ink, pol­ishes, the proofing compounds, ce­ments, water proofing compounds, clever ideas by the score, dentifrices, cosmetics, gasoline storage tank evap­oration loss tests, medicines, foods, — literally every thing from soup to nuts, not forgetting the oranges either. I'll stop before I get too tiring.' 
" 'Prom this list you will gather that I am still pursuing chemistry. So far as I know. Gene O'Toole is vice­presidenting in a department store at St. Joe, Michigan. George Hallett, when not hibernating in, of all places, Florida, helps the Hotel Whitcomb do business in the same town as assistant manager. Ed Kramer is engaged in the banking field in Rochester, New York, but this is only hearsay evi­dence. However, my cousin, Mark Eilers, Ch.E. '19, who is with the Rochester Gas & Electric, should know of the activities of most of the Rochester alumni.' 
" 'I have forsaken bachelorhood rather late (1935) and have a son, John, who will undoubtedly hope to go to N.D. to follow in the wake of his father and uncles John, '24, Ber­nard and Joe, ex. '28.' 
"E. P. 'Slip' Madigan, St. Mary's College, St. Mar>''s College, Califor­nia, advises: 
" 'I am soriy that I did not answer your letter sooner, but it is heavy go­ing at St. Mary's with football prac­tice and reorganization.' 
" 'I would like to give you a lot of information about our class; but if I am not mistaken you and I are the only ones that ever got as far west as the Pacific Coast.' 
" 'It seems to me that every time Notre Dame is in San Francisco that it is in conflict with some other St. Mary's affair, and that I am unable to attend — although the desire is always there.' 
" 'Naturally in my trips around the country I meet a lot of Notre Dame people, and just the other day I ran across Frank B. Thompson, at-tomey-at-law, 609 Hearst Building, San Francisco.' 
" 'On our trip to Cuba last year we met and had the pleasure of a nice visit with Frank Skiba, whom I think, but am not sure, is a member of our graduating class. The rest of the Notre Dame men I meet in the East, where I usually meet John Balfe.' 
"Leonard M. Call writes from the International Circulation Company, Inc., 27th Street at Eighth Avenue, New York, N. Y.: 
" 'Yes, John Balfe drops in here for an occasional visit and we have pleasant recollections of the time spent at Notre Dame.' 
" 'Perhaps you recall my brother Charles, of the Journalism class of 1918. He is about the only alumnus on whom I can give you a report. Our homes are next to each other in Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey — one of the hundreds of places within commuting distance of New York.' 
"Father Tom Tobin, of the archdi­ocese of Portland in Oregon, 2053 S. West Sixth Avenue, Portland, Ore­gon, reports: 
" 'My tardiness in complying with your request for information about the class of 1920 has been due partly to my habitual inability of overcome inherent inertia, and partially to the sadly-increasing conviction that I am the only member of the class among this particular section of the Tall Timbers. I thought that I might be able to discover some other member of the distinguished graduates of 1920 among the boys assembled at Portland University on Universal Notre Dame Night, but that was no go either.' 
" 'About the best I can do, under the circumstances, is to tell you that —John C. Powers, my brother-in-law, and his family, were out here in Port­land and vicinity for the last Christ­mas holidays.' 
" 'During Powers' visit here, one night when we were having dinner together, Pete Bafaan called by phone from Shreveport, Louisiana, and we took up the thread of conversation where we left off in 1920. Pete in­troduced his wife to us over the 'phone, and if she is as good as she sounds, Pete apparently has some­thing.' 
" 'Father Art Hope was out here last summer for the summer semes­ter of the University of Portland and we are hoping that he is due to come out again this coming summer.' 
" 'Father Bill Havey, according to reports that we would like to believe, may be assigned to the faculty of the University of Portland next year.' 
" 'I hear occasionally from Ellie Moore in South Bend. He and Ruth Cole Moore are the same genuine people that it's worth a trip across the continent just to talk to for an evening.' 
" 'Since coming back from Rome in 1936 I have seen Tom Beacom and Paul Conaghan a couple of times, and also have. an occasional letter from them. Beacom tells me that he is moving from the Lake Shore out to Wilmette; to raise vegetables, or something, I suppose.' 
" 'An occasional — very occasional 

— card from Al Ryan and Frank Fox doesn't give me much of a starting point for giving you any information about them.' 
"John Powers, of Powers and Com­pany, 10111 Euclid Avenue, Cleve­land, Ohio, says: 
" 'When I came through Los An­geles in Februarj-, I talked i\-ith Al Scott and asked to be remembered to you. For the past three years I have been going to the coast to visit my wife's mother, who happens to be Tom Tobin's mother. I am in the real estate game with my brother, so that I have to have some legitimate ex­cuse for taking time out. The result is that we have been revamping week­end and recreational tj-pe buildings, which I pick up on the coast and adapt them to local use.' 
" 'Regarding your classmates, I i-an across Morris Starrett in Port Town-sent, Red Murphy in Portland, Al Ryan in Detroit with the Universal Credit. Beacom and Conaghan are still located in Chicago. Bill Havey, C.S.C., spent the winter in Deming, New Mexico, where I just missed him when we visited there. Next time you run across Tom Heam remember me to him.' 
"Dick Swift, of Smith, Swift and Maloney, Union Bank Building, Dav­enport, Iowa, wTites: 
" 'There are about 100 members in the Tri-City Notre Dame Club in this ^^cinity, and many of them are fellows who were in school at the time you and I were there.' 
" 'You undoubtedly recall Francis King, who, I believe, was a year ahead of us, and his brother, Charlie, who was a year behind. Francis is state's attorney in Rock Island Coun­ty and his brother Charlie has quite a fine position with the International Harvester Company.' 
" 'Eddie Meagher is attorney for the Royal Neighbors, whose home of­fice is in the Tri-Cities. 
" 'You undoubtedly read of the death of Gus Van Wonterghem. The following were pallbearers at his fu­neral: Francis King, Charlie King, Ralph Coryn, £d Meagher, Joe Meers­man, and the writer, all of us having been at Notre Dame with Gus.' 
" 'Joseph Meersman also has a good position with the International Harvester Company in Moline. His older brother, Pete Meersman, prac­tices law in Moline.' 
" 'Harry McCuUough, from Daven­port, has a job with the Government in regard to some literary or writing bureau. I tried to get hold of him before writing you this letter to learn his exact title, but was unable to reach him. His work takes him away from the city quite a bit and he seems quite interested in it.' 
" 'There is not much new to write you in regard to the Swifts, outside of the fact that we now have a fine new baby sister for Richard Francis.' 
" 'It might be of interest for you to know that in our firm we also have another Notre Dame man, George Vander Vennet, formerly of Moline, who received his degree from Notre Dame in 1932.' 
" 'Of course, the fact that Elmer Layden is from Davenport, and ^ye have had Steve Miller from here on the team and now have Bill Hofer, of Rock Island, makes things much more interesting for us from the standpoint of the athletic department.' 
" 'I occasionally run across our old classmate, Ralph Bergman, formerly of Newton, Iowa, who I understand is doing quite a successful washing ma­chine business, together with his brother, Carlton, in Oskaloosa, Iowa.' 
" 'I see Leo Hassenauer about twice a year. He is, as usual, doing quite fine in his law practice in Chi­cago, and held, as long as he wished to so do, the position of first assistant United States Attorney. He has a very lovely family and they live in Wilmette, a suburb.' 
" 'Ralph Coryn, to whom I re­ferred, is a big butter and egg man in Moline, and the proud father of a very fine family.' 
" 'Elmer Besten, whom we call "Judge" here, although his is only a youth, also has an ofiice in this build­ing. He, too, is man-ied and has a fine son. Of course, I don't suppose we should include him with us old timers, but since he is here while I am dictating this letter, I thought we should include him.'" 
192 1 Secretary: Dan W. Duffy, 1600 Ter­minal Tower. Cleveland. Ohio. 
Commencement registrants: 

Bray, Anthony—Bcllcfontaine, Ohio Dollard. Thomas—Troy, Now York Easley, Donald J.—Notre Dame Hoar. Gerald—Notre Dame Kline, Qarence J.—Notre Dame Maafr. J. M.—ChicaRo McLellan. H. J.—South Bend Miller, Callix—South Bend Sanford, Joseph F.—Muskegon. Michigan Schuhmehl. R. J.—Notre Dame WTiite, William M.—Sprin^eld, Blinois 
A. R. Abrams has moved his con­tracting business from South Bend to 1018 South Wabash Avenue, Chi­cago. Al was one of the regular plane disembarkers at the South Bend airport until this move. 
192 2 Secretary: Gerald Ashe, Buffalo Ath­letio Club, Buffalo, Mew York. 
Commencement re^strants: 

Ashe, Gerald—Buffalo, New York Brubaker, Gerald—Notre Dame 
Connelly, Frank W.—ChicaKO Dixon, J. F.—Evanston, Illinois Dressel, Fred—South Bend Focarty, Rev. James A., C.S.C.—^Notre Dame HcncRhan, Georse—South Bend Hirschbuhl, Charles—Portland, Oregon Hughes, Frank M.—Chicago Kline, Rev. James E.—Notre Dame Manion, Qarence—Notre Dame MeCalTery, B. J.—South Bend McCabe, Thomas S.—Chicago Phelan, Robert R.—East Orange, New Jersey Schiavone, Anthony—Chicago Shilts, Walter—Notre Dame Stuhldrchcr, Walter J.—Indianapolis, Indiana Tremel, J. A.—Mishawaka, Indiana Weber, A. Harold—South Bend Wenzke, Herman—Notre Dame 
192 3 Secretary: Paul H. Castner, 17 Cor­nell Road, West Hartford, Conn. 
Commencement registrants: 

Brannigan, Rev. Joseph, CS.C.—Notre Dame Breen, Frank J.—Lakeville. Indiana Brcnnan, Martin—Geveland, Ohio Caldwell, Dr. C. J.—Cleveland, Ohio Casasanta, Joseph J.—Notre Dame Cochrane, John C.—-Toledo. Ohio Conway, Rev. Walter K., C.S.C.—Notre Dame Desch, A. G.—Elmhurst. Illinois Diedrich, Arthur—South Bend Donaldson, J. F.—Calumet City, Illinois Doran, Dr. P. C—Akron, Ohio Ficks, Albert—Scarsdale. New York Flynn, John R.—Cleveland, Otio Furey, W. J.—South Bend Gould, E. W.—Chicago Hines, Eugene M.—Chicago Holmbcrg. Bruce—River Forest. Illinois Kelly, Edward D.—Emmetsburg. Iowa Kennedy. J. F.—^New Hampton, Iowa Kiley, Roger—Chicago Larson, O. J.-—Chicago Lee, Thomas J.—Minneapolis. Minn. Lynch, Dan—Hammond. Indiana Martin, James R.—Chicago Montague, John—Chicago Nash, R. J.—Chicago Norton. Jack—Chicago Payton. E. J.—South Bend Raub. E. J.—Cuyahoga Falls. Ohio Rauh, W. I.—Calumet City. Illinois Reddington. Rev. John J. C.S.C.—^Notre Dome Rohrbach, J. M.—Crown Point, Indiana Shea, W. E.—Dayton. Ohio Staples, J. R.—South Bend Torres. J. N.—New* Rochclle. New York Voss. William L.—Har\ey. Illinois Wack. George—Notre Dame "Wallace, Francis—Bellaire, Ohio Wilcox, Perce—Minneapolis. Minnesota 
Prof. - Credit Expert - Candidate ­Rotarian President Gene Payton is a prominent picture in most South Bend newspapers these days. Gene was nominated for the Indiana state senate in the primaries, was elected the new president of South Bend Ro­tary, and has generally been sub­jected to the local limelight. 
Cliff Ward, editorial writer and columnist of the Fort Wayne Neios-Sentinel, has won considerable fame with a safety campaign. Cliif is speaking at the second Seminar of Safety, at the Waldorf-Astoria in New York June 20-24. Cliff attended the first Seminar, and was invited to return as an "alumnus" representing the newspaper men who attended the first session. 
IQ2 4 Secretary: J. F. Hayes. Wm. J. Ped­rick & Co., Intematlonal Bldjt.. Hoclc­eMler Center, New York City. 
Commencement registrants: 

Drennan, William J.—Chicago 
Feltes, Norman—Chicago Kelly, Rev. Thomas, CS.C.—^Notre Dame 
Maher, WilHam R.—Chicago Mayl, E. A.—Dayton. Ohio Mceban, James R.—South Bend Noon, E. P.—South Bend Noonan, QifTord—Chicago Stillman, Harry—^Detroit, Michigan Sullivan. Edward S.—Fort Wayne, Indiana Walsh, Thomas J.—Chicago 
John S. Brennan, former professor of English at Notre Dame, now asso­ciated with Frank E. Hering, '98, in the Eagles' Magazine, was elected new president of South Bend Aerie No. 435, F. 0. E. 
1925 Secretar;: John P. Hurley, 2085 Brookdale Road. Toledo. Ohio. 
Commencement registrants: 
Armstrong, James E.—Notre Dame Barry, Thomas—^Notre Dome Braunsdorf, W. H.—South Bend Bamnsartner, C. L.—South Bend Gavanaugh, William—Chicago Dixon, Robert—Dixon. Illinois Harding. Qarence—South Bend Howland, R. B.—St. Louis, Missouri Hurley, John P.—Toledo, Ohio Koch, George—South Bend Lynch. Rev. John, C.S.C.—^Notre Dame McNicholas. James F.—Chicago Miller. Karl J.—Notre Dame Naughton. Frank—Develand. Ohio O'Toole, Ed—Chicago Polhaus. Ed—Detroit. Michigan Porta, A.—South Bend Powers. Loo J.—Chicago Rohrbach. G. E.—^Notrc Dame Stuhldreher. Harry—^Madison. Wisconsin Uhl. Gilbert E.—South Bend 
John Hurley, in the traditional Hurley fashion, finishes a fine '25 year with a large hang. He -ivrites: 
"As long as you are 'heavy' on Commencement news, I'll go easy and it will he a break for hoth of us. The only letter I received since the last issue is the following from Wally Metzger and ends a year that started with one of 'the forgotten men of the class of '25,' Anse Miller's 'big apple' letter, and ends with Wally, a fellow who has been hiding his accomplish­ments under the well-known basket for these past 13 years. It's great to hear from you, Walter. 
" 'Apologies to you for not writing sooner. At the time I received your card we had Just purchased another company and I was working day and night helpin g to get everything straightened out.' 
" 'I seldom see any of the boys from our class, but met quite a num­ber of old friends at the dinner held at the Knickerbocker Hotel on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. Had a chat with the following men: Bill Sul­livan, Harold Cooke, Tony Morgan, Charles Chouffet, Tom Donovan, Ray Barrett, Pat Sullivan, Art Bidwill, Doc Stoeckley, Andy Conlin, Herb Eggert, Don Wilkins, George Doher­ty, Ed Ryan, George Dailey, Cliff Noonan and several others.' 
" 'I am happily married, John. Have three children — one girl and two boys. Having good health and a steady job, I really have little to complain about. At present I am as­sistant sales manager of the Bowman Dairy Company, Oak Park Division.' 
" 'Best wishes to you, John, and all my Toledo friends. Should you or they come to Chicago, stop in and say "Hello." The address is Harlem & Central Avenues, Oak Park, Illi­nois.' 
"Met John Tretton, '13, of Los Angeles at Commencement. He told me Ed (Kid, Jr.) Ash is with Bolsa Chica Oil Company with the purchas­ing division. Ed has been on the coast for the past few years. 
"While in Milwaukee about a month ago, I called Harold 'Senator* Watson and he was at the Catholic Youth Convention being held in that city. Harold was a delegate and his wife tells me he has been very active in that and other Catholic Action movements when he isn't selling in­surance for the Travelers. 
".4s usual, Notre Dame gave its re­turning alumni a grand welcome and the details of this are in other pages of this issue, but I just want to say 'thanks a million' for the '25 fellows." 
One week after Commencement, the Alumni Office was brightened at five-minute intervals by the appear­ance of Hayes Fuller, the old Missis­sippian, who hits both coasts in the advertising business, out of New York, and Bill Merriman, Rochester, New York. A few days later George Bischoff dropped in with a couple of nephews. Joe Toolen was in several weeks before. 
1926 Secretary: James A. Ronan. 127 N. Dearborn St. Chicago, Illinois. 
Commencement registrants: 
Bailey. Joseph—Chicago 
Barr, William R.—Chalmers. Indiana 
Burt, H. J.—Chicago 
Dooley, W. R.—Notre Same 
Engels. Norbert—Notre Dame 
Fink, A. J.—Fort Wayne. Indiana 
Foley. A. M.—South Bend 
Goulet, V. L.—Chicago 
Green, Rev. William—Dubuque. Iowa 
Griffin, John T.—Chicago 
Haley. J. Arthur—Notre Dnme 
Hargan, E. F.—Belleville. N. J. 
Johannes. Al—South Bend 
Kelleghan, J. H.—Chicago 
Krauser, H. L.—Chillicothe, Ohio 
LaFoIlette, Clarence—Chicago 
Marguet, Charles P.—^New Albany. Indiana 
McGinley. Jerry—Ogallala. Nebraska 
O'Day, George P.—Cleveland, Ohio Rigali. Joseph—Chicago Ryan, John J.—Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Sullivan, Wade W.—^Algona, Iowa Tuoby, John—Chicago 
Al M. Foley, who has an insurance adjustment office in South Bend, was elected president of the National As­sociation of Independent Insurance Adjusters at its Indianapolis conven­tion recently. 
Rev. Philip Beaghan, C.S.C., '19, pastor of Holy Cross Church, South Bend, is a practical believer in the college man in parish activities. Wit­ness Rudy Goepfrich as chairman of the summer festival, assisted by Bill Dooley, and Gilbert Uhl, '25. 
Mike Reddington has had a busy year as city attorney in Indianapolis, heading a large staff of that metrop­olis' legal bulwarks. 
J927 Secntaries: JoKph M. BoI«^ Aflk­letle OOea. Notre Dame lai.: Wt­mund DcChm. 712* So. Tmik An, Ckimm-
Commencement registrants: 
Butler, Paul M.—South Bend Coon. Albert L.—Chicago Cooney. Robert—^Adrian. Michisan Downey, William H.—^Notxe Dame Doyle, A.—Johnstown. Pa. Duffecy. Jr.. H. J.—Indianapolis, Indiana Dugan, John—Kansas City, Missouri Fitzgerald. Donald—Mundelein, Illinois Halpin, John—Chicago Halpin, Richard—Chicago Irmiger, Robert—Chicago Jones, Herbert—Notre Dame Kavanaugh, William D.—Chicago Lecbowicz. Stanley—Cleveland. Ohio McClory. Raymond L.—Chicago McCurrie. Francis—Chicago McKenna. R. L.—South Bend McLaughlin. Edward J.—Chicago McNeills. John—Chicago Moran. Frank—^Notre Dame O'Connor, Thomas E.—Bellefontaine. Ohio Rodgers. John—Chicago Ryan. Edwin L.—Chicago Slattery, John—Chicago Smith, Al—LaPorte, Indiana Snyder, Raymond—South Bend Sullivan, John—Chicago 
Wilkins, Donald—Chicago 
Dan Cunningham paid a recent 
visit to the Middle West including 
several days on the campus. The 
trip was saddened 1>y his recall to 
New York because of the illness and 
subsequent death of his mother. 
"The Rev. Robert Charles Goode­
now of the Society of Jesus announc­
es his ordination to the Holy Priest­
hood . . ." The ceremonies took-place 
in the Chapel of St. Robert Bellar­
mine at West Baden, Indiana, June 
23. Father Goodenow's first Mass was scheduled for St. Mary's Church, Mame, Michigan, on June 26. 
J928 Secretary: Lonis F. BncUer. HldOe­ton, Wisconsin. 
See Commencement story, page 
223, for news of the '28 reunion. 
Commencement registrants: 
Armin. William F.—Chicago Benda. Joseph—^Notre Dame Bethke. Edward J.—Chicago Boehning. J. W.—^Indianapolis. Indiana Bourke. Ed F.—Brooklyn, New York Boyle, Andrew J.—Notre Dame Bradley, Daniel—^Amityville. New York Brown. F. E.—Elkhart. Indiana Buckley. Louis F.—Madison. Wisconsin Buschmeyer. J. B.—Louisville. Kentucky Canny, J. P.—Qeveland. Ohio Carlin, J. E.—Salina. Kansas Carney, Vince—Rochelle, Illinois * Cavanaugh, John—Chicago Ceres, Anthony V.—^Perth Amboy. N. J. Conlin. Edward J.—Chicago Conmey. James—Brooklyn. New York Connors. F. H.—^Aroade, New York Coury. George—Chicago Creadon, Frank—Riverside, Illinois Cronin, William F.—New York City GuUen, James—^Athens, Pennsylvania Culliney. Larry—^New York City Daily. William—Chicago DeCIercq, Jerome—Chicago Donovan. Frank J.—Racine. Wisconsin Farrell. Eugene—Hollis. New York Fontana. John C.—Columbus. Ohio 
Frederick John F.—^Muskegon. Michigan Gagiiardi. Frank M.—Brooklyn. New York Galardy. Frank M.—^Ncw York City GrifHn, Joseph—^Milwaukee. Wisconsin Hart, Tom—Chicago Hans, Alvin F.—Chicago Haslcy, Henry-Fort Wayne, Indiana HOger, Joe—Oilmnbus, Indiana Horan, Joseph J.—Fort Wayne, Indiana Igoe, John P.—St. Lonis, Missouri Jenkins, A. R—Williamsville, New York Kearney. William—Chicago Kelley. George—Youngstown. Ohio Kinneary, Joseph P.—Cincinnati, Ohio Kirby, Robert E.—Indianapolis. Indiana Knox. R«>bcrt—Crystal Lake, Illinoia Konon, W. H.—Indianapolis, Indiana Lavelle, Thomas F.—^Anderson. Indiana Loeiller. Bernard T.—^Indianapolis, Indiana Lnsson, R. J.—Chicago Massman. Jr.. Henry J.—Kansas CSty. Mo. McCarthy. Frank P.—^Indianapolis, Indiana McClamon, Ed—Detroit. Michigan McGanley, Edward J.^Worccster, Mass. 
HcGuire. Edward P.—Chicago McMahon, John F.—Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Meyer, Francis—^Munster, Indiana Hohlman, Robert J.—Lafayette, Indiana Momsen, Reuben—El Paso, Texas Mullen, Jack—Bronxville, New York Mulligan, R. H.—Chicago Murphy, William H.—Chicago O'Brien, Jr., George G.—Seymour, Indiana Phalin, Howard V.—Chicago Fhelan, Richard—Chicago Pinkley, Carroll—St. Louis, Missouri Quinlan, Richard—Chicago Quinn, Edward R.—^Mishawaka, Indiana Quinn, F. J.—Lexington, Kentucky Rice, Chester—Yonngstown, Ohio Rich, Ronald E.—^Notre Dame Rieder, Ernest—Detroit, Michigan Rieney, J. J.—Chillicothe, Ohio Rigney, R. J.—Chicago Rini, Martin A.—Qeveland, Ohio Rothballcr. Dr. V. J.—South Bend Ryan. Martin A.—Buffalo, New York Scarer, Floyd—South Bend Sheedy, John C.—Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Smith, David H.—Chicago Sporl, C A.—New Orleans, Louisiana Stenius, Charles A.—Detroit, Michigan Strohm, F . H.—Delaware, Ohio Thomas, Al—Lorain. Ohio Tobin. Dr. Paul—Elgin, Illinois Traughber, J. T.—Qarlisville, Tennessee Wallace, John J.—Calumet City. Illinois Walsh, V. T.—Monticello. Illinois Wagner, Willard—South Bend Weisberger, Seymour—South Bend Wingerter. John J.—East Orange, N. J. Worden. R. A.—Goshen, Indiana Wozniak, Steve—Akron. Ohio 
1929 Secretary: Joseph P. McNamara, At­torney Gen. OiHcc, Indianapolis, Ind. 
Commencement registi-ants: 
Armbruster, Dr. Francis—^Toledo, Ohio 
Bartholomew, Paul—Notre Dame 
Bocskey, Stephen—^Notro Dame 
Brown, John—^Racine, Wisconsin 
Brown, W. E.—Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
Campbell. D. L.—^Notre Dame 
CuIIen. Matt J.—Chicago 
DeDario. A, J.—Elkhart, Indiana 
Doan, F. E.—Oeveland, Ohio 
Dorgan, John W.—Chicago 
Haugh, Richard—^Delphi, Indiana 
Heincman, C. W.—Connersville. Indiana 
Jewell, Everett—Middletown, Ohio 
Johnson, William—Chicago 
Jones, Francis—South Bend 
Lyons, John J.—Chica^ro 
Martersteck. K. E.—Qeveland. Ohio McDonall, Dr. George—Freehold, New Jersey 3IcManigal, Hugh—South Bend McNamara. Joseph P.—Indianapolis, Indiana Molter, Rev. John. CS.C.—^Notre Dame Mulflur, W. H.—East Chicago, Indiana Niezer, L. F.—^Fort Wayne. Indiana Plunkett. Don—^Notre Dame Ryan. Thomas A.—Chicago Staudcr. Lawrence F.—^Notre Dame Timlin. J. F.—Evanston, Illinois Tobin, Dr. John—Elgin. Illinois Trotter, Robert—Chicago 
Paul C. Bartholomew, associate professor of politics at Notre Dame, received his Ph.D. from the Univer­sity of Kentucky at Lexington on June 3. 
Herb Burt thoughtfully drops a note that Leo J. Lynn is now with the Sears-Roebuck company in Ev­ansville, Indiana. And that 9-months old twin daughters keep him busy. 
1930 Secretary: Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth St., New Kensington, Pa. 
Commencement registrants: 
Bondi, A. L.—South Bend Crooks, John F.—Chicago Crooks, W. L.—Chicago Draves. Harry—South Bend Duke, Harold E.—Fort Wayne, Indiana Finnegan, J. F.—Huntington. Indiana Gibbons. John W.—South Bend Heineman. G. A.—Connersville, Indiana Holland. Jerome P.—Chicago Holmes. R. A.—South Bend Lennon. Charles F.—Joliet. Illinois Loyce, Ray A.—Crown Point. Indiana McDermott, James E.—Grand Rapids, Mich. Parent, Fred—South Bend Parent, Walter E.—^Alichigan City. Indiana Petersen, Arthur E.—Evanston, Illinois Plunkett. Devere—^Notre Dame Reidy. Jerry—Oevdand. Ohio Shipacasse, Al—Cleveland. Ohio Sown. Frank J.—South Bend 
Louis Hasley, associate professor of English at Notre Dame, whose poems dot the literary landscape, was chosen president of the Notre Dame-St. Marj''s unit of the Catholic Poetry Society. 
jg3J Secretary: John Bergan, 828 E. Col­fax Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
Commencement registrants: 
Bergan, John—South Bend Boyle. Austin—New Orleans, Louisiana Bustin, Gerald—Sayre, Pennsylvania Carey, Rev. Charles, C.S.C.—Notre Dame Collins, R. F.—Chicago Costello. George F.—Chicago Egan, Dan—Chicago Gavin, Joseph—Geveland, Ohio Golabowski. Joseph—Springfield. Illinois Habing, Bill—Indianapolis, Indiana Halpin, Dan—New York City Hershfield. M. C.—Goshen. Indiana Kearney. James J.—Chicago Kopek, Henry—Detroit. Michigan Krai, Lawrence—Qeveland, Ohio Mahoney. John M.—Chicago Maloney. Bert—Milwaukee, Wisconsin McGreal, F. J.—Chicago Mulrey. Maurice—Indianapolis. _ Indiana Neydon. Robert—Detroit. Michigan Oakes, Thomas E.—Chicago O'Brien. Walter—^Auburn, New York Petrauskas, Alex—Cicero, Illinois Seaman. H. G.—Oak Park. Illinois Stallkamp. Charles F.—Delphos, Ohio Sullivan, John—Chicago Tuohy, Albert J.—Bayside, L. I., New York 
John finishes off a swell year with the following: 
"The class was well represented at our informal reunion this year and a number of interesting sidelights were noted: farthest distance traveled, Austin Boyle, the New Orleans news­paper man; next benedict, Jim Kear­ney, who will be married on July 2 in New Rochelle, New York; first re­union in seven years, Jerry Bustin of Sayre, Pennsylvania; and Walt O'Bri­en of Albany New York; most eli^ble bachelor, Larry Krai, the Cleveland salesman; least changed in appear­ance. Bob Neydon, the Chrysler ex­porter from Detroit, who also reun­ioned in old Chicago; best golfer, Benny Oakes, the Chicago roofing salesman, who won the alumni tourna­ment. 
"Bill 'Dutch' Habing has recently been promoted to chief cost account­ant of one of Indianapolis' largest printing firms. Maurice Mulrey, also of Indianapolis, is in the air condi­tioning business. Tom O'Connor has left the wholesale grocery game and is now paymaster for the Chevrolet Commercial Body in the capital city. Barney McGIone is also there and is an engineer on a new school building being erected in Irvington. Al Gris-anti recently completed his law course at Western Reserve, Cleveland, and will soon announce his engagement. 
"John Raleigh has ^ven up bridge temporarily and is now a clerk at Cleveland's Allerton hotel. Perhaps one of the most cheerful persons to grace the reunions each year is Joe 
Gavin, who will begin his sixth year of coaching at Holy Name high school, Cleveland, this fall. Joe, the father of two daughters, always leads a delegation back to the campus from Cleveland. Goshen's lone represen­tative, Myron Hershfield, was on hand and is now running a structural billboard company in that garden spot of Indiana.. 
"Other men present at the meet­ing were: Joe Golabowski, the Springfield architect; Bert Maloney, the lUilwaukee truck salesman; For­rest West, South Bend architect; George Costello, the Chicago account­ant; Frank McGreal and John Ma* honey. Windy City barristers; and Dan Halpin of New York.. 
"Announcement is made of the class reunion for all members below the Mason-Dixon line the night of the Notre Dame-Georgia Tech game in Atlanta's Biltmore hotel. The committee in charge, consisting of Charlie Powers, Bob DeNeefe, Jack Hughes, Fred Rahaim, Mike O'Brien and Matt O'Brien, urge all men in the vicinity to be present. Bud Tuohy, the Long Island barrister, has also put in an early bid to entertain the boys who come to New York for the Army game at his home following the game. 
"Larry Mullins, who begins his sec­ond year as athletic director at Loy­ola University, New Orleans, this fall, is expected in South Bend early this summer and will take on Joe Boland, Chet Grant and all comers on the golf course. Howard Beasley, the Federal Match salesman, occasionally visits the city in the interests of his company. He is living in Chicago and has a daughter. Walt O'Brien is still single and is working for the state of New York at Albany. Jerry Bustin is also in state service at Sayre, Pennsylvania. 
"So without further ado we take a two month's vacation and sincerely hope that some of the '31 men who have been among the missing in the past will write something of their whereabouts for the October issue." 
1932 Seerstarr: Herbert Glonio, 9006 188th St, HoBii, U L, New York. 
Commencement registrants: 

Brasseur. Albert J.—Mishawaka, Indiana Cannon, R.—Elgin, Illinois DeVoe, E. D.—Chicago Downs, Jim—Oak Park, Illinois Ernst. Frank—Chicago Fabrycki, Richard—South Bend Harbaugh, Noble—South Bend Hennion. G. F.—^Notre Dame Jauch, John W.—Niles, Michigan Kerlin, John—Columbia City, Indiana Kiolbasa. Walter—Chicago McGee, Frank—Chicago Nash. C. B.—Chicago Oelericb, Francis—Chicago O'Malley, Ed F.—Notre Dame O'Malley, Francis—^Notre Dame O'Malley. Tom—Chicago Otto. William C—South Bend Petritz, Joseph—Notre Dame Pfeiffer, Ray—Louisville. Kentucky Roethele. B. J.—^Notre Dame Rohrbach. Robert—Chicago Roney, Richard—Chicago Salvaty, Ben—Chicago Van Rooy. W. J.—Cleveland, Ohio Weiss, Charles—South Bend Wieczarek, Ed—South Bend Witt, Ralph—South Bend 
Herb Giorgio sent along this dope in mid-May: 
"Haven't much news of the boys these days except for a letter from Bill Waltz. Bill states that Bob Streb, of Canton, Ohio, is first as­sistant to the county treasurer and is quite a Simon Legree when it comes to collecting taxes. 

"June 20, St. John's Catholic Church, Canton, will he remembered by Bill for the rest of his life. On that day he will marry one Julia J. Goug. Congratulations and best of luck. 
"Johnny Walsh, of Massillon, was killed in an auto accident on May 19, near Canton, Ohio. This news will be a shock to a great many of the boys in the class who knew 'Wildcat' and liked him so well. May I take this opportunity to extend to the rela­tives of Jack the sympathy and con­dolences of the entire class. 
"Tom Magee, who has been ill for some time, is now back in action con­nected with Camps Jeanne d'Arc and Lafayette located at Merrill, Clinton County, New York. From the de­scription given of the camps by Tom they must be wonderful places for any of you guys to send your boys and girls, if you have any between the ages of 6-15. Good luck, Tom. 
"News from the Mid-West tells us that Fred Snite is improving day by day and is setting an example for all people who think they have trouble. 
"Bill Slader is married and is living in Jamaica Estates. He maiTied the gal he met at the Reunion last June. See what the rest of you bachelors missed?" 
Bill Cass drops a note above the roar of Niagara, where Bill is an electrical engineer with the Buffalo Niagara Electric Co. 
George Hennion, instructor in chemistry and chemical engineering, is the newly elected chairman of the St. Joseph Valley chapter of the American Chemical Society. Dr. An­drew Boyle is secretary; Dr. L. H. Baldinger is treasurer, and Dr. Pat­rick McCusker is member-at-Iarge. 
193 3 Secretary: Donald Wise, 110 Pleasant St.. Joliet. m. 
Commencement registrants: 

Armbnister, Gcorjre—Toledo. Ohio 
Blackwell. Thomas J.—Indianapolis. Indiana BaldinRcr, Lawrence—Notre Dame 
Baldwin. John A.—Columbus, Georgia 
Beamer. George—South Bend Bean, J. W.—South Bend 
Beaudin, George—Chicago Becvar, Arthur—Lakewood, Ohio Boehm, Paul—South Bend Bolger, George—Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan BonDurant, Robert—South Bend Bourke. James—Cleveland, Ohio Boyle, Paul J.—Gary, Indiana Brcnnan, Roger P.—Cleveland, Ohio Brinker, John B.—Covington, Kentucky Bunch, R. F.—Chicago Burke, Jr., J. V.—Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Burke, John F.—Glen Falls, New York 
Cahill. John—Dixon. Illinois Callahan,' Paul—Bellevue, Ohio Cannon, William—South Bend Carey, Cleveland—Cleveland, Ohio Games, John K.—Toledo, Ohio Carrigan, Ed—Oak Park, Illinois Carroll, Jr., William P.—Chicago 
Carton, Richard C.—Red Bank, New Jersey 
Cashman, Ben—South Bend 
Cavender, A. T.—Chicaso 
Chawgo, Louis—Aurora, Illinois 
Churchman, Joseph—Peoria, Illinois Coglcy. Ed—Oak Park, Illinois Collins. John J.—Chicago Conlcy, Charles—Chicago Coyle, Mike—Tawas City, Michigan Crimmins, John M.—Chicago Crowe, Francis—Chicago Dailey, Ed—Burlington. Iowa Dames, Roland—St. Louis, Missouri Darmody, Philip—Chicago DeLay, Michael—Norfolk, Nebraska DeWald, Maurice—Fort Wayne, Indiana Dockendorff, Joseph A.—Niles Center, Illinois Dockman, Joseph J.—Baltimore, Maryland Donahue, William—Har^'ey, Illinois Douville, H. A.—Alpena, Michigan Doyle, William—Chicago Draper. Donald F.—Chicago Drymalski. Al—Chicago Duke, Norman—LaPorte, Indiana Eckert. Ed—Albany, New York Ehr, Ralph—Waukesha, Wisconsin English, John P.—Seattle. Washington Enright. Tom—Youngstown, Ohio Eppig, Arthur—^^ViImette, Illinois Fallon, Jr., Francis X.—New Rochello, N. Y. Feldman. Tod—Detroit, Michigan Fitzpatrick, J, D.—South Bend Fitzsimmons, Bob—South Bend Flint, Robert—Grove City, Pennsylvania Freeman, James—^Winamac, Indiana Fulton. Robert V.—Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Galla. John J.—Bridgeport. Connecticut Garrity. Don—Chicago Gartland, Rev. Francis E.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame Gaussetin, E. A.—Chicago Gerend, James—Sheboygan, Wisconsin Gocpfrich. George—South Bend Goslin, Edwin A.—Chicago Grattan. Henry—Englewood. New Jersey Haberkem, Bud—Springfield, Ohio Hafron. C. F,—South Bend Harrison. Rev. Frank J.—Syracuse, N. Y. Harter, Vermont—South Bend Heitger. Robert—Bedford, Indiana Hess, C. J.—Chicago Hosteny, Richard—Chicago Hyde. Sam—New York City Jaskwhich, Charles—Oxford, Mississippi Joyce, John R.—Chicago Harfst, John—Chicago Hoyt. John—New York City Jaeger. Jack—Milwaukee, Wisconsin Jones, C. D.—Shrevcport. Louisiana Keam, Thomas C.—Spokane, Washington Kelley, John J.—Eau Claire. Wisconsin Kirincich. J. V.—Joliet. Illinois Kraus, J. J,—Niagara Falls, New York Kronewitter. Ronald A.—Mishawaka. Indiana Lahey, Mike—La Porte, Indiana Laughlin. Fred—Grosse Pointo, Michigan Laughna, F. J.—Detroit, Michigan Lee. Maurice—Chicago Leding, Michael—Schenectady, New York Lennartz. George G.—Lakewood, Ohio Locher. S. E.—Monticello, Iowa Lopker, E. B.—Wilmington. Illinois Lynch, "William—^Yonkers, New York Macbeth, Fred—Toronto. Canada McNamara, John H.—South Bend Martersteck, William—Jackson. Michigan Martin, Don—Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Martm, Frank—Goshen, New York McGill. James—Fort Wayne. Indiana 
McCabo. Joseph—North Attleboro, Mass. McNeill. John J.—Harrishurg. Pennsylvania Meade, R. E.—Seattle, Washington Me3*er, Fred—Peoria, Illinois Mitsch, William—^^'heeling. West Virginia Moran, Martin C.—Chicago Morarty, Ed—^Ann Arbor, Michigan Muellner, Joseph F.—South Bend Murphy, Bud—Brooklyn, New York Murphy, L. C.—Brooklyn. New York Neuhauer, John ,T.—Patterson, New Jersey O'Brien. A, J,—Cleveland, Ohio O'Mcara, Tom—West Bend. Wisconsin O'Neil, Paul F.—Rochelle. Illinois O'Shaughnessy. John—Chicago O'Connor. Charles J.—Lansing, Michigan O'Connor. Walter—Niles. Michigan O'Shea. Russel J.—Cairo. Illinois O'Kcefe, Frank—Rockford. Illinois Pinkley. Jr.. T. C.—Portageville, Missouri Plotkin, D.—South Bend Powers, David—New York City Poynton, John—Chicago Proctor, Robert—Elkhart, Ind, Prendergast H.—^Newark, New Jersey Prendergast, Henry J.—^Newark, New Jersey Raddatz. Leslie—Shaker Heights, Ohio Ran. Gene—Roselle. New Jersey Rigali, Paul—Chicago Ripley, Albert—Plcasantville. Now York Rolfs. Daniel—Oak Park, Illinois Ruppe, Arthur—South Bend Sargus, Edmund—Bellaire, Ohio Schwartz. N. F.—Salina. Kansas Sexton. W. Lawrence—Indianapolis. Indiana Sexton, Thomas—Chicago Shea, James F.—^Brooklyn. New York 
Siero, Elmer—Chicago 
Sloan. John F.—Peoria. Illinois 
Smith. Arthur C.—Chicago 
Stltt. Lawrence J.—Chillicothe. Ohio 
Sullivan, Jack—Chicago 
Sullivan, Ed—Amboy. Blinois 
Troy, Ed—South Bend 
Umphrey. Thomas J.—^Indianapolis. Indiana 
Vesely. Jerome A.—Chicago 
Venafales. John—Geveland. Ohio 
Vesely. Jerome A.—Chicago 
Whittenbcrg. W.—New Buffalo. Hich:gan 
Wiatrowski, Feliks—South Bend 
Wise. Don—Joliet, Illinois 
Woods, Tighe—Chicago 
Classmates, and Notre Dame men generally, must have rejoiced to learn of the return of Fred Snite, Jr. to his home in Kiver Forest, Illinois. Fred spent the winter in Florida and shows signs of definite improvement. He can breathe increasingly well without artificial aid, and can spend several hours with the aid of a light chest respirator. A long interview, his first, on his return to Chicago indi­cated that the spirits of the "Boiler Kid" are still high after two years in his "iron lung." Fred is convinced that Notre Dame prayers have played no small part in his conquering of afiliction, and in turn all Notre Dame men ought willingly to pray in return for the high example of fortitude and faith which have come from Fred since he was stricken in China. Fred's home address is 909 Ashland, River Forest. 
Here is a personal message from the local chairman of the 1933 re­union, the South Bend school teacher and playground boss, Paul Boehm: 
"Relax, men — and think of what a 10-year reunion should be — what with this valuable experience and five years' planning. The five-year reunion was a big one, so big in fact that we were even able to smile when someone remarked 'that even the de­pression came back.' 
"The official reunion party was held at the Columbia Athletic Club, where the boys entertained them­selves for hours. The lion's share of the credit for that pleasant gathering goes to the able toastmaster, class secretary and general 'fixer* Don Wise, who called upon Father Frank Cavanaugh CS.C, and Assistant Coach Joe BoUnd. Those two men applied the official touch in great style. The class also appreciated the presence of Father Frank Harrison, who attended the party and said Mass for the week-end visitors at Morris­sey Hall. John McNamara, Jimmy Ash and Bill Case were the fellows who took care of the details for the party for the chairman. 
"While the reunion visitors were feasting at the banquet Saturday eve­ning, information sleuths were check­ing and rechecking in Bob Cahill'* office the play-by-play account of that Saturday morning ball game between '28 and '33. The final tabulation showed how clearly the men of '33 had dominated play (thanks to John­
ny Baldwin and those other few who maintained a waistline that permitted them to bend over suddenly) but there was many a tear shed over the prospects of a winning team in '43. If years will make a guy hit and field like these fellows of '28 — then we can all save a cleaning and pressing job by not showing up back of Walsh Hall come 1943. Coaches Father Farley and Maury Lee were in a hud­dle and could not be reached for a statement, but no important deals ap­pear imminent. 
"Father Holderith need not un­cover any golfing great to reclaim the course record for the school, de­spite those early morning attempts of Jack Jaeger, George Bodine, Pat Crowley and Al Drymalski, T. Webb Sexton, et al. 
"Writing this recalls a hundred in­teresting features of the week-end but you will get the idea if we state simply that it was a great reunion." 
2934 secretary: James Moscow. 2320 K. Lawndale Ave.. Chicasro. HI. 
Commencement registrants: 

Abraham, Eli M.—^Notre Dame Bejdey, John—Qevcland, Ohio 
Cahill, Bob—Notre Dame 
Carey, Edward—Cleveland, Ohio 
Cheiu], R. G.—Cincinnati, Ohio 
Curran, Manrice—Chicago DcWnde. J. B.—South Bend Doyle, Frank A.—Chicago Dusch, Bill—Wheeling. West • Virjrinia Fisher, Edward J.—tjtica. New York Grimes, Thomas R.—^Nilos, Michigan Hamilton. Bob—Hacine, Wisconsin Hess, John P.—Chillicothe. Ohio 
Kclley, Robert K.—Sonth Bend Kennedy. Walter—Stanford. Connecticut liinton, F. L.—Chicago, Illinois l.ogan, John H.—Fort Wayne, Indiana Matthys, Fran—Chicago McNemey, John—^Elcin, Illinois Morrison, Jim—Chicago Qoartnch, Joseph E.—^Michigan City, Indiana Roberts, Clyde—Oak Park, Illinois Rochdeau. G. A.—Chicago Schwartxel. C. J.—New Albany, Indiana Sheridan, William—Jersey City. New Jersey 
After completing his studies at St. Meinrad's, Rev. John A. O'Brien was ordained in Kansas City, Mo., by Bishop Lillis. He will be stationed in Kansas City. He celebrated his first Mass in St. Matthew's Church, South Bend, on May 29. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., '16, preached the sermon. 
Bill Newberry, formerly of Al­liance, Nebr., is with the Universal Studios in Hollywood. He designed some of the sets for the recent fea­ture film, "Mad About Music." 
Tom Tsiolis was valedictorian of the June class of the Indiana Law school in Indianapolis. Tom received his B.S. in Civil Engineering from Notre Dame. 
Fred Kellogg was recently licensed as an architect in Colorado after passing the examination required for that profession. He is working in Denver; hailing originally from Rock Springs, Wyo. 
With his check for dues Bob Clark, 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
of Mulberry, Indiana, sent in this in­
teresting dope: 
"Since graduating in 1934, I have been associated with my father in the publishing business. We publish the Mulberry Reporter, which was established fay my grandfather in 1890. Last week we started our 49th year of publication. 
"I have not been up to Notre Dame since last May, but I have plans to get there soon. The ALUMNUS is very welcome, but was disappointed when finances curtailed its monthly publi­cation. 
"By July of this year I will have served as president of the newly-organized Clinton County Historical Association for one year. I find the preserving of relics and history of Indiana, and especially of my own county, very interesting. 
"The class notes for 1934 always seem to be rather skimpy, but here is one or two items that may be of in­terest. Ed Holman is associated with his father in the law firm of Holman & Holman, Leavenworth, Kansas. Charles Kamasiewicz is in a seminary at Roland Park, Maryland. 
"Edwin Wykoff, dass of '35, has been teaching and coaching at two different high schools in Florida since then. 
"Karl Fulnecky, who was to have graduated in 1935, is in charge of the WPA Recreation service in Clin­ton county, with headquarters at Frankfort, Indiana. 
"Matt Ronzone is teaching in the Kyger grade school, Frankfort, In­diana. 
"The last I heard of Leo Crowe was that he was still in Lafayette, Indiana, playing independent basket­ball. 
"I see Earl F. Gruber's name in the paper quite often. He graduated in 1905 and is an attorney in Prank-fort, Indiana." 
193S Secretary: Franklyn C Hochreiter, 610 Rodd St., Midtand, Mich. 
Commencement registrants: 

Berger, Qare—South Bend Bembrock, William F.—Springfield. BlinoiB Bookwaltcr, James—^Nilcs. Michigan Bried, Edward A.—St. Petersburg, Florida Byrnes, Robert C.—Cedar Rapids, Iowa Campbell, J. Thomas—Grand Rapids. Mich. Caresio, John—Chicago Conlon, Joseph—Binghamton, New York Cronin, James—Chicago Dederich, Charles—Toledo, Ohio Demetrio, George—Chicago Ellwanger, Ralph—^Dubuque, Iowa Fisher, Patrick—^Indianapolis, Indiana Fitzpatrick, Patrick—Chicago Foss, George—Chicago Goebcl, Harold—Sooth Bend Halbert. Paul D.—Wecdsnort. New York Hochreiter, Franldyn—^Midland, Michigan Howard, James R.—Chicago Kennedy, William J.—^New Hampton, Iowa Mahar, Charles—^Kansas City, Missouri Proctor. Thomas G.—Elkhart, Indiana Prezebel, Richard—Cleveland Heights, Ohio Raddatz, Ed D.—Shaker Heights, Ohio Rogers, Robert—^New York City 
June, 1938 

Shodron,- John J.—^Milwaukee, Wisconsin Verbanc, John J.—^New Brighton, Pa. Walton, Spencc—^Mishawaka, Indiana Wniiamsen, Charles T.—Dayton, Ohio Witchger, Eugene—Saginaw, Michigan Ycungerman. Daniel—^Davenport, Iowa 
Ed Leonard is with the Grasselli Chemicals division of Dupont, in the Chicago office, 21st Street and Sonth Peoria, according to Bill Dooley who met Ed at a Chicago Club luncheon recently. 
John Lagoni, formerly of Niles, now working in Lansing, Michigan, is one of the successful lawyers to pass the Michigan bar examination i n May. 
Hoch concludes here his third year of doing the class' hard work for the ALUSINUS. And he hasn't missed a single issue in all that time. Praise and thanksgiving to him from the ed­itors. He deserves the gratitude — not to mention the help — of all that '35 gang, too, for his excellent work. 
Take it away, Franklyn: 

"Another year has passed for the class of '35 and we noted a decided decrease in the number of the gang back for Commencement. If that meant we were all working and tied up with our jobs so that we could not get away — all would be well. But we query — was that the reason? Or was it because jobs were so few that we could not afford the expense of returning? That is history now — let's hope for a bigger return in '39. 
"With all there were some 30 of the crowd on the campus. And they all looked up and coming, too. Some older — some heavier — some a little worn. All a little wiser. 
"To assign honors this time to press is not a difiicult task — they go to friend Tom Proctor — our prexie. After several years of effort, Tom really got down to business this year and walked off with the Breen Medal as well as his LL.B. We were proud of you, Tom, and felt it a proper finis to your stay at N. D. 
"Pat Fisher was a prominent figure about the campus over the week-end. Pat, as you know, is deputy county prosecutor of Marion County, Indi­ana. Nice going for a year out, fella. 
"We had a pleasant chat in 111 Morrissey (our headquarters) with Walt Matusevich who drove out from Jersey. Walt had a very fine railroad position but the 'recession' took his job as it did so many others. He was fortunate, however, in landin g a draftsman's berth with the WPA in Paterson. 
"Over the breakfast table on Sun­day morning, we learned from Jim Cronin that he is no longer with American Radiator but is associated with his dad in Chi. 
"With Jim at table was Jack Shod­

ron who, we helieve, continues to work in Peoria. 
"Since our last bit of chatter. Gene Witchger has taken to himself a bride. He and Betty Wolf were mar­ried in the new Saginaw Cathedral on Saturday, May 7. They were both on the campus and looking their part very well. Gene and Betty are liv­ing, temporarily, in Detroit at 8199 Dubay Street. 
"We saw Grand Knight Larry Sex­ton after the flag-raising. Another '35 barrister to return was Bill "Bunk" Kennedy from New Hamp­ton, Iowa. Bill looks heavier but prosperous. He. informed us that Loui* Fautsch and Ms buddy. Bob Kenline, are both among the wedded gentry and are 'laying the law' in Iowa to rich and poor alike. To yon both—felicitations and success. 
"Paul Halbert returned from the Empire State to gather up his M. A. We saw Paul several times around about and he gave us the dope that at the moment he continues to draw a salary from the Eastman Company. 
"As we strolled Cafward for break­fast on Saturday morning we found Bill Bembrock, still looking in good condition, sitting under a tree in front of Morrissey. Bill is still situated in Springfield, Illinois, with the state. 
"Need we tell you who made the 

10:15 'special' Mass in Dillon on Sun­day morning? Of course—^there was that motley outfit from the midwest— Bob Byrne*, Jim Howard, and Geor^re Demetrio. They were standing out front as we came out. If appearance means success — well, that trio can't complain! 
"In the Oliver on Saturday night we ran into Ed Raddatz, Chuck Dede. rich, Dick Prezebel asd Ed Bried. From the Cleveland mob we took a few notes on fellow townsmen. 
"Cecil Hobert is working with the Central National Bank in the Ohio city. 
"The General Electric Co. has Lou Hruby. (We missed you and your sidekick from Akron, Louis!) 
"Ed Raddatz told US of his associa­tion with Horn and Norris litho­graphers in Claveland, while Jim Byrnes is reporting for the Cleveland 
News. 
"But to return to Pal Fisher and the valuable stuff he turned over to us. 
"Art Mulholland is in the advertis­ing game in Kalamazoo, Michigan, while Paul Gnarineri practices the law in Warren, Ohio. 
"That -Arkansas flash who took Washington by storm when he con­tinued studies down there after leav­ing our ranks, Maurie Fairhead, is with the Conservation Department in Indianapolis. 
"Pal Quigley and his accordion are living oft a credit firm in the Indiana capitol. 
"In New York City, Jack Robin-ton is still making his money in the Stock Exchange as well as earning an 'honest' living, in the same place. 
"Also down New York way is Jim SheiU who continues to pursue legal pearls in Fordham Law School. 
"All of which reminds us—Louis Grouo, did you conquer Dean Smith at Columbia this year and carry away your sheepskin? How about a line? 
"While we are on our fella Colum­bians—we heard Bob Rogers was back from Long Island. We did not see him, but wish we had. 
"Ray Margarett is employed by an investment firm in his native city of Rochester, New York. 
"And again back in Cleveland, Jim Colleran is earning his salary as an accountant. 
"Pat gave us the glad tidings of Sabino Cavender who took to himself a wife in September '37—the girl Dorothy Hanley. Much congratula­tions 'Beanie' even if they be late— and good luck in St. Louis Med. School. 
"In the Caf we met Bill Struck who seems to be enjoying the practice of the law. We are correct. Bill? 
"Before leaving you for the year we must make note of three more items of interest. 
While attending Mass in Bay City on May 15 we met Jack Kavanaagh. With us was a friend from Buffalo. Jack was the perfect host in his 'taking us over' for the better part of that Sunday. No longer at Ann Ar­bor, Jack is with a law firm in his home town, and doing very well. 
"Over Memorial Day we drove home for a visit, and received in the mail a trinket from a beer tavern in Washington—one of those pads for a beer glass. No name was signed, merely a question mark. But it was addressed to 'Franklyn C. P. Hoch­reiter'. Only one person ever used that moniker with the 'p' included— the same being Vince Gorman. At least we have verified our data of sev­eral numbers ago—Vince is in Wash­ington. (Thanks, fella,—now how about a letter?) 
"Then, in the newspaper we ob­served that the Polish Alumni Medal for the year had gone to Cardinal Mundelein, and that Art Korzeneski retains the prexie's chair in that or­ganization for the nation. That made us ask a few questions about him while on the campus, when we found him missing. We learned that Art had taken the second semester off at Loyola and at present is in Washing­ton, D. C, with the N.C.C.W. or the 
N.C.W.C. for the summer. We think that Father Vince Mooney, CS.C> had something to do with his appoint­ment. 
"Well, gang, that about finishes us up for this year. We've enjoyed working for yon and with you. To tell you that we appreciate all your cooperation would be putting it mild­ly. We merely put out what you vol­unteer — without your help the '35 column would hare been a faHune. The charitable comments that have come our way as a result of the monthly news sheet should go more to you than to us. Hay we count on you all to a man in the year to come? We hope so! Here is to a grand sum­mer and a visit from any or all of yon if you ever should be up Midland way." 
193 5 Secretaiy: John Moras. SI S. tSth St, Apt 2, New York City. 
Commencement registrants: 
Baur, Adalbert C.—Chicaso Bernard. Kobert F.—Menasha, Wisconsin Bonet Sebastian—Notre Dame Baum. Arthur A.—Battle Creek, Uichisan Bowes, William R.—Park Ridse, Illinois Brieser, Louis—Taylor, Texas Borke, Jr., Robert—I/ouisville, Kentucky Ervin, Bob—Notre Dame Gcerts, Marcellus J.—^Davenport, Iowa Geideman. Kenneth—^Niles, Hiehisan Guamieri, Paul—Warren, Ohio Jeffers, Howard—Chicago Lynch, George—Benton Harbor, Hichisan Hatusevich. Walter Joseph—Patterson, N. J. UcGrath, Joseph—Philadelphia, Pennsylvania McKenna. James F.—Portland. Oreson Measher, George—^DePue, Illinois Molique, Richard' A.—Lo^visport Indiana Ncmeth, Loais—Granger, Indiana O'Brien, Dan—Cleveland. Ohio O'Kane, Joe—South Bend OTooIe. Lawrence J.—Pittsburgh, Pa. Pilarski. John M.—Sooth Bend Prekowitz. Ted—South Bend Ratigan, Joseph W.—^Bordentown, N. J. Rich, H. W.—HcKeesport Pennsylvania Schoonover. Jack—South Bend Safia. William—Drumright Oklahoma Sparlimr, Ha!—London. Ohio Stine, H. R.—Flint Michigan Struck, William L.—Dayton, Ohio Theis. E. Fred—Indianapolis. Indiana Venables, Herb—Cleveland, Ohio Vesey, George—South Bend Vicars, Tom—Pontiac Illinois Walker, Phil—Notre Dame Weber, Fted—St Louis. Missouri Wolf, G.—Port Clinton, Ohio 
Johnny concludes a full year of heroic and highly effective service for the class and the ALUMNTTS with the following: 
"Following Bill Dooley's editorial admonition to keep the column boiled down for this issue to permit more Commencement news, we swing into the last opus for the 1937-38 scho­lastic year. 
"To beg^n with, the mailbag brought letters from several of you who have been missing from this col­umn for some time. Jim Siddall wrote in to state that he went to work for Marshall field & Co., in Chicago, shortly after graduation. After six months he joined Dun & Bradstreet, Inc., and at the time of his writing was still with that organ­ization, but in what capacity he didn't state. Jim added that he expected to receive an appointment as a flying cadet to the U. S. Army Air Corps Flying School at Bandolph field, Texas, shortly. He wrote that he had 
already passed the necessary examin­ations and was merely waiting for his appointment. Good luck, Jim, and let's hear from you down Texas way. 
"Jim also passed along the infor­mation that the gang in and around Chicago is doing well. Pat Donovan is -working for the Consolidated Building Materials Co., as is Abe 
Muellman. Reno Zarantonello is a 
salesman for Beechnut Packing Co., and Al Rohol is still selling insurance, numbering Jim among his first -vic­tims. Tom Fitzgerald is reported as ha-ying gone through the Na\'y Flying School at Pensacola and is now at­tached to either the Lexington or the Saratoga. Jim wants to know if Frank Kellner is still working -ivith the Commercial Credit Co. in New York, but not having seen or heard from Frank in months, I am unable to answer that question. -^ for Charley Fitzsimons, I understand that he is no longer with the Naval Air Service. Thanks for your letter, Jim, and let's hear from you again. Siddall can be reached at 7724 Yates Avenue, Chicago. 
"Frank Kopczak dropped a short note on the stationer}' of the Depart­ment of Physical Education and -Ath­letics of Washington University, St. Louis, to state that Andy Pjlney is coaching Weber High School in Chi­cago and is presently playing base­ball with the Indianapolis team of the -American -Association, along -with Vic Mettler. Your Mr. Kopczak is coach­ing at Washington University. 
"Larry Falkovic w-TOte in from Johnston, N. Y., that he is coaching one of the local semi-pro teams. Jerry Vogel came through -with an­other interesting letter from Chicago where he is now employed by the Chicago Relief Administration and continuing his Social Service studies in the evening session of Chicago University. Francis Deery sent along some interesting clippings regarding Andy Pilney's work in Indianapolis baseball circles. Fran himself is working for the government on a ci-vil service project in Indianapolis, but just what it was he didn't state. As for Messrs. Mozele and Mozele, I am unable to supply any info, Fran, as I don't know their whereabouts. 
"Mickey Dendler took time off during law exams at the University of Pennsylvania to -write that Con­nie Byrne is still at Temple Law School, night session, and that Curley Reagan is at Gonzaga University Law School. Mickey, incidentally dropped in to see me -while in New York on June 8, but I happened to be out. And the last item in the mailbag is a postal card from Walt Matusevich -who was lucky enough to get out to Commencement. 
"Random news picked up here and there: Joe Schmidt is taking time off from the advertising department of the New York Sim to take a vacation jaunt to Europe, ^^'hy didn't I stick to Journalism? Joe reports that he is very active in the Knights of Colum­bus activities here in New York. From the Personal section of the ad­vertising column of the New York Times, June 7, 1938: 'Irwin L. Gold­man, formerly with Universal News Service, has joined Gussow, Kahn & Co., Inc., as account executive.' 
"Seen around little old New York town lately were Jim Kirby -with whom I had dinner not so long ago; Bill Walsh, and Doc Caspar who de­serted his medical studies in Philadel­phia to pack up and leave for a three months' tour of Europe on the 11th of June. Doc sailed from New York and stopped by to have lunch before he left. 
".And that's all for the present. Let me hear from you during the summer, so that there will be a little news with -which to start the column in the fall. Till then, an enjoyable summer to you all." 
1937 Secretary: Paul Foley. 454 Aulum Ax-c., Apt. 208, Fontiac. Michigan. 
Commencement registrants: 

.AJaman. Louis—New York City Bales. James E.—^Dixon, Illinois Battaglia, Josepli—BuHalo, New York BroEcrer, J. F.—Grand Rapids. MicliigaQ Brown, Clifford—Norwalk. Ohio Burke, James—Kvanston, Illinois Byrnes, Greg.—^Hamilton. Ontario Carroll, Frank—New Roehelle. New York De Landero, Telmo—South Bend Delaney, Richard—Peoria, Illinois DeMots. John F.—Minot North Dakota Dorgan, Joseph—Chicago Druecker, Joe—^Indianapolis, Indiana Figel, Donald—Chicago Flanagan, Edward—Peoria, Illinois Gott, Arch—Chicago Hardart. Frank—Forest Hills, L. I., N. Y. Hickey, Louis—South Bend Hufnagel, Charles—Richmond, Indiana Huisking, Edtvard—^Huntington, L. L, N. Y. Jordan, William—^Notre Dame Kefller, Bernard—^Malvern, Ohio King, T. R.—Niles. Ohio Kopczak, Frank—Chicago Lechner, John—South Bend McGrath, Ray—Oak Park. Illinois McGuire, Francis T.—South Bend McGuire. James—Gcneseo, New York Meyer, Francis—^Danville, Illinois Meyers, Charles F.—Elgin, Illinois MiUer, Stephen G.—Rock Island, Illinois Minella, Samuel—Plainville. Connecticut Moorman, Jr., A. H.—^Detroit, Michigan Mulholland. Art—Kalamazoo, Michigan Myers, J. W.—Celina, Ohio Norris, Richard—Trinidad, Colorado O'Byme, Robert J.—Chicago O'Boyle, Anthony F.—Scranton, Pennsylvania O'Donnell. Lawrence—Pittsburgh, Pa. O'Hara, James—Chicago Kunsch, William—Chicago Pendergast. Thomas M.—Chicago Pojman. Henry F.—Chicago Quinn, M. F.—Buffalo. New York Smith, Frank—Oak Park. Illinois Roark. Paul—Busbnell. Illinois Schmelzle, Robert—Freeport. Illinois Scolaro, Anthony T.—Chicago Shapero, Joseph—South Bend Sheehan, John H.—South Bend Thomas, George—Chicago Tieman, Luke—Chicago "Viviano, Peter—St. Louis, Missouri Waldron, James—^Trenton, New Jersey Weakley. Harry—Peoria. Illinois Weiss, Joe—^Flint, Sfichigan 
Cy Stroker, of Apartment 3A, 542 West 112th Street, New York City, proved himself the alert newshawk of old when back for MaUmey's wedding. Out of the -week-end welter of information emerged the follow­ing: Cy is rooming with Don Man­ning at the above address . . . AI Bride is in the credit department of a Hartford, Connecticut, store . . . Lou Hollenbach holds the double aces in the hole for a career, as as­sistant treasurer of his father's com­pany in Louis\-ille, and you're right, it's julep raw material, and not the mint . . . Ned Joyce is working with a Spartanburg, South Carolina ac­counting firm, after CP-A exams . . . Jack Baker is at Bloomingdale's in New York City, while Dick Baker, '36, is with Stem's . . . Joe Crotty is developing (in New York) South African territorj' for a New York foreign sales i-epresentative . . . Bill Mulrenan, after-a job at Stem's in 
N.Y.C. is back in Bridgeport with John Hancock Insurance, and is pres­ident of the Young Men's Democratic Club of that city. 
Lloyd Stolich, Salinas, California, and Carl Nedom, one of Notre Dame's super-synthetic alumni, have tied in with Big John McMulIan, '26, whose wholesale vegetable business takes him to Salinas for several months a year. Reports are that the conversa­tion quota for the trio matches any 
N.D. Club. 
A growing tradition -with unique and praiseworthy factors is the an­nual reunion of the friends of the late Joseph F. Donahue, Jr., held at the Donahue home in South Bend, the week-end of Commencement, -with Joseph F. Donahue, Sr., as host. -A memorial Mass at Notre Dame, is fol­lowed by a pilgrimage to young Joe's grave, near the grave of K. K. Rock­ne, a close personal friend of the Donahue family and a schoolmate of Joe, Sr. In the aftemoon the school­mates of young Joe, who was killed in an automobile accident, are guests of his father in a golf tournament. Among those here this year -were Frank and Ed Huisking, Frank Car­roll, Jim Waldron, Frank Hardart, Gene Ling, Charles Moloney, Bob Keating, Martin Bums and Jack Mc-Auliffe. 
1938 Secretary: Harold A. Williams, 216 East Lake Ave., Baltimore, Maryland. 
John C. O'Connor, class president, has been selected to act as director for the year on the national board of directors of the -Alumni Association. As a returning law student, John will contribute the added factor of cam­pus residence in the representation of '38 in alumni affairs. 
Chosen for Class Secretary until impeachment or violence may remove him is Harold Williams, the Balti­more firebrand, erstwhile strength of "The Week." Hal's style is familiar and a source of promise to the class for the forthcoming columns of the ALUMNUS. His knowledge of the in­ner workings of the Alumni Office, after three years of hard labor there. 
Wisconsin nine both Friday and Sat­urday afternoons. 
Further in line with alumni inter­ests, the Ninth Annual Council of Local Alumni Clubs was held on Sat­urday afternoon in the court room of the Law Building. Much interest and constructive discussion attended this group. 
Cemetery Ceremony 

The annual Mass for deceased alumni was omitted this year because of the conflict with the Centenary Mass. Prayers for the deceased alum­ni in the Community cemetery at 5 o'clock Saturday afternoon drew a small but fervent group of alumni. 
The monogram luncheon on Sun­day noon drew the customary wel­come and large delegation of wearers of the ND together. This event has assumed major proportions not only as an annual reunion, but as the cry­stallization of much splendid activity on the part of this group of distin­guished Notre Dame men. 
Very significant this year was the first meeting of a group of District Governors of the Association, held on Sunday, at a luncheon. The pur­pose of this meeting was the discus­sion of plans for the Rockne Memor­ial. Much constructive discussion also came from this group, which was aug­mented by the presences of several other prominent alumni and the new president of the Association. 
Class Day Exercises 

Class Day exercises on Saturday morning found the Class of 1938 reaping the individual prizes and awards for their four-year merit. The Class also enjoyed a special Mass on Sunday morning at which the Apostolic Delegate distributed Com­munion to the Class. 
Professor Daniel C. O'Grady, phi­losopher, author and lecturer, was the 1938 recipient of the Alumni Associa­tion award for outstanding faculty achievement. 
There you have in all too brief form the content of the 94th Com­mencement week-end. Fortunately, several of the addresses and reports are reprinted in this issue. 
But, if you have borne with this summary account, you must realize that a Commencement at Notre Dame has grown to proportions which jam the several days devoted to it and tax the facilities of the University to the utmost. But from it has annual­ly emerged a new and loyal group of alumni, an ever-widening circle of friends, and a new step of seven-league attributes in the progress of a Greater Notre Dame. 
will further Class interests through strict observance of the Office dead­lines, policies, etc. (we hope). Which brings to mind that the ALUMNUS despite rumors, is not a fiction mag­azine, and the Class Secretary is held responsible for facts which, in turn, he must cull from the Class. So fa­miliarize yourself with that Balti­more address and flood the mails. 
Chuck Borowski I'eaped the reward of his baseball ability in a contract from the Cincinnati Reds which now has Chuck with Union City, Tennes­see, seasoning up in the Mountain States leagues. 
Joe R.uetz is off for another two-months hiking trip, this summer through the badlands of Utah. He is accompanied by Louis Miller, a Cath­olic University seminarian fro m South Bend. The two expect to cover some 400 miles. 
HELP, MINIMS! 

A gold cross medal for English awarded to John Egan of St. Ed­ward's Hall in 1923, was found, a la Ripley, by H. J. Morley, himself a minim in 1911-12. Mr. Morley is in the advertising business in Chicago. Mr. Egan, if this word reaches him, can secure the medal from the Alum­ni Office. 
BLACKHAWK HOTELS Located in 
DAVENPORT, IOWA . PEORIA. III . . . 
HOTEL JEFFERSON HOTEU B1.ACKHAWK 
ST. PAUL. MINN. HOTEL ST. PAUL HOTEL MISSISSIPPI 
MASON CITY. IOWA HOTEL DAVENPORT HOTEL HANFORD 
800 AT COMMENCEMENT 
(Continued from Page 224) 

santa, '23, provided a varied and in­teresting concert in Washington Hall. Professor Casasanta's able band also brightened the week-end, with a con­cert on the Main Quadrangle on Fri­day night, and at the flag-raising ceremonies on Sunday morning. 
The varsity baseball team, under Coach Clarence J. "Jake" Kline, '22, gave the entire week-end a px-oper tone by defeating the University of 
7937 Legal Directory 
(Additions and Changes) 
ILLINOIS 

Chicago 
CULLEN, Maiihew J.. LL.B.. "29 160 N. LaSalle St.. 1225 2508 N. Spaulding Ave. 
NEW YORK Roc^aluajj Beach BURKE, Joseph P.. A.B., -25 204 Beach 116lh Street 
WISCONSIN R/iine/an(fcr DOWNS. C. Thomas. A.B.. '33 Brown Building 
BLACKHAWK HOTELS 
Your guests will appre­ciate the beautiful mod­emness of Blackhawfc Hotek — their gradous hospitality — their out­standing service and con­veniences. In Blackhawfc Hotels you will find lux­urious comfort at moder-

BLACKHAWK HOTELS COMPANY 
*4 
"ifi 

Chesterfields  
for a lifetime  
MO^EPLEASi  
.. better taste  
.. r^reskingmildness  

Cop)Tt£ht 1938, iiGCETT a: MVEKS TOBACCO C a 








