The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
NUS 

9i!i. OHUf tUe fHOMUt aUet naxt 
X^O >>H \° 

y\aO 
\Ve 
Jo* ,et-^ 
l^ 


isf* 
ts» .\ 
.q»» 
*). 
>y^^^ 
Twenty-five years ago the late John H. Nceson, '03, of Philadelphia, then president of the Alumni Association, instituted Universal Notre Dame Night, a Night when Notre Dame men everj'where would join in expressing their oneness with their school. Mr. Neeson's particular purpose — and this purpose has remained steadily through the years — was to emphasize the full stature of Notre Dame as an institution of higher learning. 
Now, on April 5, 1948, the Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia will^l fittingly be the "key city" in the twenty-fifth annual observance of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. Scores of Notre Dame clubs will join with the University and with the Philadelphia Club in paying tribute to the school "planted immovably on the moveless rock." 
The Alumni Office will be happy to cooperate with the clubs in every possible way to make this 25th annual Universal Notre Dame Night a significant event in Notre Dame history and an all-time high in clubg interest and participation. 

Mark the calendar now for Monday, April 5—the second Monday after Easter. 



74fUuefUal AfaUe 2bame JififUi MoHidcu^, 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
{» 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second class matter Octo­ber I, 1939, at the PostoRicc, Notre Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council. lames E. Armstrong, '25, Editor; William B. Dooley. '26, Managing Editor 
 Vol. 26 FEBRUARY, 1948 No. I 
Alumni Board Reelects Officers 
New Directors, Joe Boland, Father Vincent Brennan, Arthur Cronin and Leo Ward, Attend First Meeting 
Meeting at Notre Dame on Jan. 11-12, the Alumni Board reelected for 1948 the V officers who ser\'cd the Alumni Association 
• ^ through 1947. 
The reelected officers include Harry G. Hogan, president: Thomas F. Byrne, hon­orar)' president; Francis Wallace and Robert 
T. HcUrung, vice-presidents; James E. Arm­strong secretar)-; and William R. Dooley, assistant sccrctar)-. 
The Board welcomed to their first meet­ing the new directors chosen in the recent balloting: Joseph M. Boland, '27, South Bend; Rev. Vincent P. Brennan, '32, Pitts­burgh; Arthur D. Cronin, '37, Detroit; and Leo B._ Ward, '20, Los Angeles. Holdover directors present, in addition to the officers, included Louis F. Buckley, Harold E. Duke, John J. Elder and Daniel J. O'Neil. Direc­tor Paul Mallon was unable to be present. Retiring directors Eugene S. Blish and Tim­othy J. Murphy met with the group, as did Rev. Robert H.. Sweeney, c.s.c, executive assistant to the president and coordinator of alumni affairs. 

ft:' The Board meeting opened Saturday noon, Jan. 11, with a luncheon at which Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c, president, and other top University administrators were guests. In an address, comparatively brief yet extraordinarily comprehensive. Father Cavanaugh pointed out to the direc­tors the obligations and opportunities facing the Notre Dame of the present and the basic plans which the University has for future development. So favorably was the address received that there was a general demand that it be made available generally. 
Hearing a detailed report from President Hogan on the accomplishments of the Notre Dame Foundation (of which Mr. Hogan is chairman), and on its relationships to the University and the Alumni Association, the Board voted unanimously its appreciation and approval, saying that the Foundation "fills a basic need at Notre Dame and is operating presently under a sound basic formula." 
In a report covering 1947, Jim Armstrong detailed the advances made in the club and the class organizations, in the AttJMNUS (note especially tj-pe changes, new Iayo!it and new cover in the present, and recent, issues) and in the .Mumni Fund. \ sep­arate story on the success of the Fifth An­nual Alumni Fund and on the plans for the Sixth Annual Fund appears elsewhere in this issue. 
Father Sweeney reported that in 1947 he had visited 37 local alumni clubs, in addi­tion to directing an undergraduate job place­ment program and the coordination of the public information, public relations and alumni phases of University life. At pres­ent, as one of his niunerous activities. Father Sweeney is organizing a directory of Notre Dame lawyers, estimated to number about 1,130. 
Dan O'Neil, heading a committee com­posed also of Harold JDuke, Lou Buckle>-, and Bill Dooley, reported on a study con­ducted by the committee on vocational coun­seling and job placement as related to alumni. Substance of the report was con­tained in recommendations, adopted by the Board, that the University should appoint committees among the Administration and the alimmi to formulate policies and prac­tices to guide the University and the Alumni .Association in a cooperative effort in this counseling-job field and in related fields. 
Herbert E. Jones, '27, biuiness manager of athletics, and M. Robert CahiU, '34, ticket manager, met with the Board on Sun­day morning to discuss at length policies covering football ticket distributio to alumni. 
^Continued on page 5] 

THE MEW DIRECTOBS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCUTION 
NB Arthur D. Cronin, '37 Joseph M. Boland. '27 Rev. Vincent P. Brennan. '32 Leo B. Ward. '20 Detroit Coalman South Bend Radioman Pittsburgh Priest Los Angeles AttemeT 
THREE EVENTS, since last we vrenl to press, caused quite a bit of comment on the campus — Christmas vacation, sub­zero weather, and semester exams. 
SEVEN SCR.\PS of paper of great value were donated to the Universit)*. They are rare original manuscripts of Joyce Kilmer's poems. The gift came from Mrs. William Corbett, of Chicago, wife of a member of the Board of Lay Trustees. 
On one side of a piece of paper are a husband's jotted reminders—"copy paper for .Mcnie, 3 yards of white batiste, 35 or 40 a yard"—on the other side is the poem "Main Street," scribbled in pencil. "The Thorn," written for the late Rev. Charles O'Donnell, c.s.c, fonner president of Notre Dame, was penciled on stationer)- of the Hotel Seville. "Grace Before Drinking" was scratched on a Chemist Club memo pad. "Snowman in the Yard" has a list of experi­mental rhymes written beside it — obey, say, day, bray, gray, hay, lay, may, nay, ray, stay, and way. Doodlings of a landscape with a cross in the sky appear on "Lionel Johnson" and "Father Gerard Hopkins, s.j." On the Father Hopkins manuscript, Kilmer wrote the names of other Catholic poets he plan­ned to honor in verse — Coventr>- Patmorc and Father Tabb. 
INGENIOUS is the word for the Rev. Edwin C. Bauer, C.S.C, '37. He used shell packing cases, tinished off with stucco, to build a parish barber shop and living quarters for his housekeeper, according to a story that has reached the campus. The young priest is pastor of Holy Family par­ish for Negroes in South Austin, Texas. 
FOUR BROTHERS of Holy Cross, re­cent honor graduates at the University, will teach in the Diocese of Dacca, India. They are Brothers Hobart Pieper, Springfield, N. J.; Martinian Wilson, Natchez, Miss.; Ivan Dolan, Waterloo, la., and Fulgcnce Dough­erty, Sioux Falls, S. D. 
BEUGIOUS CEREMONIES, held here 

Jon. 16 and 20, commemorated the seventy-
fifth anniversary of the death of the Rev. 
Basil A. Moreau, C.S.C., founder of the 
Congregation of the Holy Cross. 
SIX NEW ELECTIVES are offered by the Department of Religion in the second semester, according to the Rev. R. G. Simonitsch, c.s.c. Head. They are: Cath­olic Lay Leadership, Theolog)- of the Mys­tical Body of Christ, Christian Marriage, Moral Principles in Business Transactions, Christianity in the Modern -Age, and Dog­matic, Moral and Apologetic Problems of the Present Day. 
A NEW ENGINEERING FORMULA for computing the force necessary to propel a sliip through the water, devised by Dr. Eorl E. Schoenherr, Dean of Notre Dame's College of Engineering, has been adopted by the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers. 
The Noire Dame Alumnus 


'/Ae 

UNIVERSITY 
By Edward A. Fischer, '37 

According to the president of the soci­ety, Vice-Admiral Edward L. Cociuane, the formula is of great importance to the ship­building industry because, for the first time in history, it puts calculations of ship resistance and ship power on a common basis in all model testing. The method, known as the Schoenherr Mean Line, may be adopted by Great Britain and Holland. 
Dr. Schoenherr, dean here since 1945, has an international reputation as a hydro-mechanical engineer. He received the Dis­tinguished Civilian Service Medal from the Government for his contributions to the war effort in designing and testing ships. Before coming to Notre Dame he was with the Navy Department. 
Dr. Karl E. Schoenherr 

A RECONSTRUCTION from original sources of a thirteenth century Greek Pas­sion Play "The Cyprus Passion Cycle," was published as Volume Nine of the Publica­tions of Mediaeval Studies here. The book, prepared by Dr. August C. Mahr, professor of German at Ohio State University, con­tains English translations and a historical, linguistic, dramatic and iconographic intro­duction. 
MUSKRATS, trapped by Holy Cross sem­inarians on one of the local lakes, gore up their pelts for the Bengal missions. The seminarians olso raise money for the mis-


TODAY 
sions by collecting stamps, paper, and 
scrap metaL 
A SEMINAR COURSE, "Aristotelian Philosophy on Health and Disease," will be given for science students by a visiting lec­turer. Dr. Herbert Ratner, of the College of Medicine, Loyola University, Chicago. 
THREE SCHOLARS, faculty members of the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies at Toronto, will give public lec- .„ tures during the spring semester at the 4 Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame. The Rev. A. J. Denomy. C.S3.. will lecture on The Mediaeval Stage, the Troy Legend in the Middle Ages, CourUy Love, the Mediaeval Epic, and Indo-European, Ger­manic and Romance Philology. 
Dr. Anton C. Pegis will speak on Illus­^trotions of the Decline of Mediaeval Phil­osophy. 
The Rev. Vincent L. Kennedy, C.S.6., will 
conclude the series with History of the 
Roman Rite and Problems of Hagiography. 
The lectiures ore made possible by a gift 
to the Institute by the Michael P. Grace n 
Trust 
—o— 

EIGHTY MILLION churchless people in America present a challenge to the zeal of Catholic students, the Rev. Dr. John A O'Brien, professor of Religion at Notre Dame, declared in an address at the Wis­consin Catholic .Action Convention in Mil-.^ waukee. V 
Father O'Brien recently completed a pamphlet, "So, You're in Love," published by Our Sunday Visitor Press, Huntington, Ind. The booklet outlines a spiritual strat­eg)- to be followed in courtship. 
MASS EDUCATION of the people of India is vital for the future of that nation under the constitution of United India, the Most Rev. Joseph Attipetty. Arelibishop of Verapoly and first Catholic archbishop of Indio. said during a visit to the campus. The prelate has faith in the futiure of his country under the constitution of United India. 
ATOMIC SPECIALIST Joseph B. Far­rcU, professor of Chemical Engineering, rep­resented Notre Dame at a Heat Transfer Symposium in Oak Ridge, Tenn. Professor Farrell, who was associated with the Man-^ hattan District Atomic Energy Project dur-f l ing World War II, is interested in soU-ing 
Father 03rien 

the problem of propelling aircraft by nuclear energ)- through a development of new meth­ods of heat transfer. 
B-.. TWO PROFESSORS in the Department of Philosophy read papers at a meeting of the American Catholic Philosophical Association in St. Louis. "Practical Knowl­edge in Relativity" was the title of the paper presented by the Rev. Bernard I. MuUahy; "Primordial Particles and Hyle­morphism" was the title of the one pre­sented by Dr. Daniel C. O'Grady. 
A COMBINED commentary on the Con­stitution of the United States with a de­tailed discussion of governmental organiza­tion and procedure as they have developed under the Constitution, is presented in a new book written by Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, professor of Political Science at Notre Dame. Dr. Bartholomew's new work, American Government Under the Constitution, was published by the William C. Brown Com­pany, of Dubuque, la. 
The new book includes chapters covering the major points of historical background and the fundamental principles of the Con­stitution and political parties; the develop­ment of government organization and pro­cedure; and the matter of state and local government in the United States along with many interesting charts and diagrams. 
Alumni Board 

[^Contlnued from page 3] This subject is covered in detail in a sep­arate story in this issue. 
Bill Dooley reporting on the revision of the Club Manual now under way and Vice-President Bob Hellrung, in charge of clubs, was congratulated, in formal Board action, on the vigor and unprecedented success of the clubs during 1947. 
The Board members were guests at the Notre Dame-DePauI basketball game on Sat­urday night, and several of them stayed over, for the annual Football Banquet on Monday night. Father Brennan offered Mass on Sun­day morning for the Board members and their families. 
This, of necessity, is just a summar)'. It cannot, in the nature of space demands here, portray the scope, interest and real success of the Board sessions, nor the worthwhileness of the innumerable discussions and sugges­tions which resulted from the two days of meeting at, and with, the University. 
The Law Club honored Prof. William 

 D. Rolliston with a Communion-breakfast 
on the completion of his 25th year of teaching. The Mass was celebrated in the Alumni Hall Chapel, and at the breakfast in the Oliver Hotel, above. Prof. Rolliston is congratulated by a student. 

Mn. BonHas Domafes Land o'Lakes Chapel 
The University has announced that a chapel estimated to cost $25,000 is under construction on the University properties at Land o'Lakes, Wis. It will be named St. Catherine's Chapel in honor of Mrs. Cath­erine Bonifas, of Escanaba, Mich., who is donating the money. 
Designed to fit into the rustic setting in the woods, the chapel is being constructed of lannon stone with a superstructure of natural log siding. The interior, which will seat 100, is furnished in natiual wood, most­ly knotty pine and cedar. It will have one main altar, and two additional altars in a side chapel to accommodate priests who arc members of the faculty of the camp. 
The chapel is intended primarily to serve Holy Cross seminarians from Notre Dame who will be spending their summer months at an adjoining camp. The camp has dor­mitory and dining hall facilities, which were erected there last summer. Thirty-five Moreau seminarians spent the smnmer there last year, and this year nearly 60 are ex­pected. 
Bcause of crowded conditions, it will be necessary to eidarge the camp this spring. It is hoped that two additional buildings can be constructed before June. The big­gest need is additional dormitory and class­room space, while a building to house the priest-faculty is also urgently needed. 
The postoffice address of the camp is Land o'Lakes, Wis., but most of the prop­erty and buildings are located in Marenisco Township, Gogebic County, Mich. The property affords a very desirable location for summer school work and the various outings connected with camp life. Many sizable lakes are connected by 20 miles of private roads. 
Construction of the chapel and other buildings will be carried on during the early spring months so that they will be ready for occupancy by June 1. The chapel will be dedicated about the middle of June. 
The construction work is under the direc­tion of Rev. John J. Reddington, c.s.c, who is purchasing agent of the University and also is in charge of the properties. 
The chapel was designed and plans drawn for it by Oscar R. Knab of South Bend. 
THE COVEH 

It's new. and we hope you like iL The drawing on the cover will be different from iame to issue. Daring 1948. well-known points on the campus, such as the Grotto and th* Log ChopeL will be featured. B there's sufficient demand, we con ar­range to have these drawings, in a fonn anitoble for framing, mad* availoble to alumni. Let's hear from you ii you're interested.—WHO 

'^^Give or Cause To Be Given'' 
ANNUAL 
zrth 
ALUMNI 



$200 PER NOTRE DAME MAN 
FUND LI 

You Know the "great oaks from little acorns." You have already planted one acorn "alumni dues" and watched the great oak of the Alumni Fund come up to last year's total of $346,013 in the §551,000 total gift year for Notre Dame in 1947. 
To achieve its immediate needs, Notre Dame must have some $25,000,000. In 1948, with elected members and new gradu­ates, our lay alumni will total some 12,500. By the simple process of arithmetic. Foun­dation Gov. Hugh O'Neill of Ohio has ar­rived at the suggestive and constructive fact that if ever)- alumnus would give — or cause to be given — $200 a year, Notre Dame, through our alumni, could achieve this size­able objective within a 10-year period. 
To give-or-cause-to-bc-given ties in direct­ly with Father Ca\'anaugh's address to the alumni at the June, 1947, Commencement —"I am not asking you to give, so much as to get." 
Financial Report Coming 

The 1947 financial report will show that many alumni are already giving $200 and more. 
But for most, the suggested program (and this alumni adaptation does not interfere with the long-range, no-goal-or-time nature of the Foundation program) indicates that most alumni will be interested in the getting or the causing to be given. This brings into the picture, as the Foundation has intended from the start, the many, many friends of Notre Dame — families, football fans, and others who know and admire the University and its aims. 
So — if you can give $200 or more, your job is easily solved. If not, you can look around you for prospective friends — the $100 giver, two or three $50, seven $25 givers, the eight or nine $20 donors, who will fill up the margin behveen your gift and your goal. 
Sixth Annual Alumni Fund — March 15 to May 15 

To preserve the fine tradition of the Annual Alumni Fund begun in 1942, to emphasize for friends of Notre Dame the really fine alumni support the University is receiving from its own alumni, and to identify the alumni for the traditional per­quisites that attend alumni contributions, the University of Notre Dame Foundation has worked out with the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association the details of the Sixth Annual Alumni Fund. 
With the cooperation of the Foundation City Chairmen and the Local Alumni Clubs, the 1948 Aluinni Fund will officially open on March 15 and close on May 15. (Needless to say, alumni gifts to the Foundation be­fore March 15 will be credited to the Fund, and the rest of the year following May 15 will be devoted to whatever contacts are necessary- to achieve the desired 100 per cent participation.) 
It is hoped that as near 100 per cent alumni participation %vill be achieved within this period as possible, with personal solici­tation by City Committees and Clubs facili­tating this goal. The result will be a sound and creditable alumni record upon which to proceed to the important contacting of friends of Notre Dame during the subse­quent months. 
Alumni Fund Outstanding Nationally 

The Notre Dame Alumni Fund has sky­rocketed in percentage participation into the forefront of all American college and uni­versity funds of its kind. On the basis of 1946 national figures, our participation in 1947 of 61 per cent of our lay alumni is higher than any college or university par­ticipation figure in a continuing, normal fund program. 
And in the amount of giving, Notre Dame's figure for 1947 — $346,013 — ranks well in the top bracket of college alumni giving. (Many schools receive much larger total gifts annually, but not from their alumni.) 
Many alumni have been hard to contact because of changes of address during and after the war. In 1947, 3,113 alumni did not participate in the Fund, many of them definitely because they were not reached by Fund contacts. The new -•Mumni D:rccto-y will aid here. 
Amount Can Be Increased by Pledge 

The same factors undoubtedly resulted in many small gifts, not intended to represent the appreciation of the broad needs and program of the University. The increasing stability of postwar population will improve this picture. From 6,137 alumni in 1947, gifts of §10 or less were received, represent­ing 81 per cent of our contributing alumni who indicate a disposition to be generous with Notre Dame. 
To make this generosity easy in 1948, the Foundation and the Alumni Board have agreed upon the use of a provision in the Gift Card for alumni of an Intention To Contribute section in which the donor may make any size contribution bet^veen March 15 and May 15 and indicate additional con­tributions periodically during the remaining months up to December 31. 
Small Gifts Appreciated. _ 

Neither the Foundation nor the Alumni Association wsh to deprecate the small gift, which has already accumulated very helpful totals for Notre Dame and for many other institutions. (The histor)- of the Church is itself a tribute to the small gift.) And at Notre Dame, in the issuing of any per­quisites, the size of the gift has never been taken into consideration. 
But under the new §200 Give-Or-Cause­To-Be-Given program, we hope that all alumni will, while continuing to be guided in personal giving by personal ability, raise their sights to include the University's prog­ress that the success of the new plan would accelerate. We want most of all in 1948 the 100 per cent participation of alumni. Sec­ondly, we hope to see many non-graduate former students come into the .Association as contributors. And thirdly, perhaps most im­portantly in the long-range program, we want 1948 to see the substantial beginnings of the list of friends of Notre Dame. ^ 
We have marked off the field. Whether you make a yard, or a first down, or a touch­down, if it represents the best that is in us against the competition we will meet on all sides, we'll be playing again in '49. 
19.47Classified Alumni Contributions 
Class 
§5 & Under 10. 20. 25. 50. 100. 200. 500. 1000. Over 1000. Totals 
No. % | 3882 | | 1 2255 1 80 1 
1  633 1  1 
1  666 1  1 
1  236 1  1 
1  99 1 19 1 
1  70 1  1 
1  14 1  1 
1  16 1  1 

16 1 1 1 212728. 7887 1100 1 346013. 
 Amount  17390.  22550.  11120.  16875.  11950.  10250.  15150.  7000.  21000. 
% 
5.6 1 7 1 3.6 1 5.4 1 3.8 1 3.3 1 4.7 1 2.3 1 7 1 61 1 100 1 
Inc. (+) or Dec.f—)over '46 No. Amount 13354-1 5475.+ 415-f 1 3650.+ 113-{-'| 2070.+ 12-f 1 240.4­954-1 4475.4­
. 26— 1 2750.— 414-i 8350.4­3— 1 1500.— 114- 1 16000.4­74- 1 59678.4­20004- 1 95688.4­

Posthumous DSC AwanI # Made to Lt, John WoUf 
Posthumous award of the Distinguished Service Cross, the nation's second highest decoration, to Lt. John K. Wolff, '44, was made on Jan. 16 to his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Herman Wolff, in a private ceremony at the home, 800 Glenwood Ave., Raleigh, 
N. C , by Maj. Gen. S. J. Irwin, command­ing general of the Fifth Corps. 
Lt. Tohn WoUf. '44 

Lieutenant Wolff was killed in action De­cember 18, 1944, along with two of his companions, when the B-24 he was piloting was damaged after making its bomb run over enemy-occupied territory-. Six of the 10 men aboard the plane bailed out on or­ders from Lieutenant Wolff, but three others went down with him in the crash. Lieuten­ant Wolff and two others were killed. He died to'ing to save the lives of the three other men. 
The citation accompanying the award, which extolled Lt. Wolff for extraordinar>' heroism in disregarding personal danger in landing the craft to save three crewmen aboard who could not parachute to safet>', was read to Mr. and Mrs. Wolff. General Ir^vin then presented the D.S.C., and also the Air Medal with Oak Leaf Cluster, and 
^ . tendered the official sympathy of the Army. Lt. Wolff was 21 years old when killed in action. He graduated from Sacred Heart school in Raleigh and was a senior at Notre Dame when he entered the .Air Corps in February of 1943. He received his commis­sion as a pilot at Moody Field, Valdosta, Ga., in March of 1944, and then joined the 15th Air Force in Italy. 
Appoint Fr, Covonough Annapolis Board Member 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c, president, has been reappointed a member of the Board of Visitors of the United States Naval Acad­emy for 1948, according to an announce­ment by the Honorable John L. Sullivan, Secretar>- of Navy. 
Duties of the Board of Visitors, which will 

^ meet during the week of April 12, include 
^' reporting on the adequacy and condition of the physical equipment of the .Academy; rec­ommending changes in the physical equip­ment that may be considered necessary or advisable; reporting upon the curriculum and recommending such changes in method or practice that may be considered desirable; and reporting upon the general state of morale and discipline and any other matters relating to the Academy that the Board may decide to consider. 
Father Cavanaugh, who also served on the Board of Visitors last year, is the second Notre Dame president to serve in that ca­pacity. The late Rev. J. Hugh O'Donncll, c.s.c, president of Notre Dame from 1940 to 1946, also was appointed to the Board. 
Moose Krause Named Aide to Frank Leahy 
Edward W. "Moose" Krause, head bas­ketball coach at the University, has been named assistant director of athletics, it was announced by Rev. John H. Murphy, c.s.c, vice-president. 
Father Murphy, who made the announce­ment in the absence from the University of Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c, president, said the appointment was made on the rec­ommendation of the Faculty Board in Con­trol of Athletics. 
Father Murphy said that some weeks ago Frank Leahy, director of athletics, requested the appointment of an assistant, since de­mands upon his time throughout the year 
Moose Krauae 

had been so heavy that he felt the need of additional help to serve the best interests of the University's athletic program. Super­vision of all varsity sports, as well as the intra-mural program for the student body, is under the athletic director. 
Moose has served as assistant coach of football at Notre Dame since 1942, and as 

For God, Couiilry. KotreDome 
IN GLORY EVERLASTING 
PBEVIOnSLY BEPOBTED 

The deaths oi 330 Nobe Dame men serving in the aimed forces of the Allies in World War U have alreadr been listed in the AlUMNOS. The deaths oi the three men lepeited here bring the total number killed to 333. Fiity-aiz Notie Dame men lost their lives intheiirst World War. 
IL SolToioie Panepinto. ex '39 

Lt. Salvatore S. (Sam) Panepinto, ex '39, of Gary, Ind., was killed in action in Ger­many on Dec. 3, 1944. 
He entered the service in March, 1942, and received his commission in Army intel­ligence in November, 1942. He went over­seas in January, 1944. He was 28 years old at the time of his death. 
Before entering the Army he played pro­fessional football with the Long Island In­dians in New York, and for a time was employed in the Kingsbury Ordnance Plant, Kingsbury, Ind. Surviving him are his par­ents and two sisters. A brother was killed while serving with the Army in India in 1943. 
Robert C. Britz, ex '40, of Indianapolis, Ind., was killed in action while in service. No other information is currently available. 
James R. Spalding, ex '36, of Walloon Lake, Mich., was killed Aug. 16, 1943, while in service. No other information is available at present. 
head coach of basketball since 1943, with the exception of two years spent in the Marine Corps. He will continue to serve as head basketball coach, but will relinquish his position as assistant coach of football to de­vote his time to his new duties. 


First Regional Foundation Meeting Held 
Delegates Convene in Boston on January 22 

Highlighted by a meeting of 60 Founda­tion Governors and City Chairmen and Committeemen at noon on Thursday, Jan. 22, in the University Club: by a brilliant re­ception for the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., in the Beacon Street home of Mr. and Mrs. .•\rthur Campbell Sullivan, and cli­maxed by an overflow dinner of alumni and friends of Notre Dame in the evening in the University Club, Foundation Governor John Saunders entertained Rev. John J. Cav­anaugh, C.S.C., director of the Foundation, Harrj' G. Hogan, chairman, James E. Arm­strong, vice-chairman, J. .\rthur Haley, In­diana's Foundation Governor, and Rev. Philip Moore, c.s.c, dean of the University's graduate school, at the first off-campus re­gional meeting of the Foundation in Boston on Thursday, Jan. 22. 
At the noonday session, all of the New England Governors, except court-bound Judge John T. CuUinan of Connecticut, and city chairmen and committeemen from the New England section braved severe weather to meet with the national Foundation heads for a thorough discussion of the program. 
At the Foundation dinner in Boston were, sitting, leit to right. Col. Bradley Dewey, 
In the evening, more than 300 alumni of John Saunders and Father Cavanaugh. Standing are John Moran, club president. the New England States, and many friends Harry Hogan and Arthur McManmon. of the University, gathered to hear addresses by Father Cavanaugh (whose talk is sub­
Bradley Dewey, member of the Notre Dame Har\'ard and M.I.T. Arthur McManmon, stantially contained in this issue of the alumnus advertising executive, served as 
.•\dvisor>- Council on Science and Engineer­
ALUMNUS), Harr\- G. Hogan, Mr. E. C. 
toastmaster for the dinner. 
ing, host to Fathers Cavanaugh and Moore, 
Donnelly, who praised the University's co­The regional meeting was stimulating evi­
who arranged for them, in addition to the 
operation in the Outdoor -Advertising Foun­dence of the organization advantage which 
meeting described, appointments with the ad­
dation, Mr. Michael T. Kelleher of the derives from a discussion group of Govern­
ministrative heads and research directors of 
Boston Chamber of Commerce, and Col. 
ors and City Chairmen and Committeemen. ."Vnd the evening's brilliant dinner was an outstanding exhibit of the power of the friendship for Notre Dame, which exists among hundreds of non-Notre Dame men, but spearheaded by the Notre Dame alumni. 
One of the significant proposals of the meeting was that New England alumni and friends might be enlisted for building a "New England Building" on the campus. Paul Hoeffler, Providence City Chairman, voiced this thought. 
Former ND Coach Dies 
Thomas A. Barr>% who was head coach of fotball at Notre Dame from 1906 to 1908, died in HolK^vood, Fla., last month. He was an AU-.American halfback at Brown Univer­sity in 1902 and was graduated in 1903. 
For more than 30 years he ser\ed as sec­retary of the Rhode Island branch of the National Metal Trades Association. 
One of Mr. Barry's Notre Dame teams set one record that still stands: .•\merican Medical College was defeated by a score of 142 to 0. In three seasons at Notre Dame 
A Foundation luncheon was held in the University Club. Boston. This is a his teams compiled a record of 17 wins, section of the Governors and City Chairmen attending. six losses, and one tie. 
Volume 26, No. 1, February, 1948 

^ NoiftB 2ia4He . . . 


For Those Who Do Not Know Its Story 
".. . Many of you at this distance from the campus have heard of Notre Dame over the years and would perhaps like to know more about it. Notre Dame is a campus of 1700 acres and of some 50 buildings. In Boston terms, it occupies an area that would, roughly, extend from the western end of the Public Gardens at Arlington Street and run to Massachusetts .•\venue. It would be bounded by Boylston Street and the Charles River. Notre Dame is a township in itself, 
• with its own post office and government. The University was founded 106 years ago and is conducted by the priests of the con­gregation of Holy Cross, an important mod­ern educational organization in the Catholic 
_^ Church. The enrollment of the University 
" • is 4700, and the faculty comprise 433, of whom three-quarters are laj-men. Because Notre Dame is Catholic, few people realize that more than 50 Protestants and Jews teach on our faculties, and that between 400 and 500 of our students are Protestants and Jews. 
The Spirit of Notre Dame 

When one begins to talk of Notre Dame, he must certainly speak of the Notre Dame spirit. The true spirit of Notre Dame is fun­damental and per\'asive. It is timeless and ageless and is our inheritance not only from our founder, but from countless great char­acters who have contributed to our culture. It is a religious, all-embracing spirit that is as much at home in twentieth century Amer­ica as it was during the age of the Great Emancipator, or, for that matter, as it was at home on the shores of Galilee. 

War Record Outstanding 

Of our 13,000 alumni, 10,000 were in the armed forces during the last war. This is a surprisingly high proportion of nearly 80 per cent. On our campus during the war, 25,000 trainees were educated in Notre Dame's classrooms and drilled on Notre Dame's fields for the U. S. Nav>'. Some 12,000 of these trainees received their com­missions on our campus. You see, I think, the strain of tolerance and democracy and patriotism of which we are proud at Notre Dame. 

Post-H'ar Notre Dame 

What is the University of Notre Dame? It is an institution of higher learning com­posed, like other great universities, of a graduate and undergraduate school. The graduate school offers advanced degrees, master or doctor, in eighteen departments. The undergraduate school has five colleges: Arts and Letters, Science, Law, Engineering 
i and Commerce. Notre Dame educates boys 
P in any one of several different fields, and while we insist on the highest standards in these fields, we realize that in preparing By REV. JOHN J. CAVAN.^UGH, c.s.c. 
President of the University 

{Editor's Note: The ALUMNUS is not re­printing Father Cavanaugh's speech in Bos­ton just because it is a speech in Boston. But in this address, delivered to a group of alumni who live at a distance and many of whom are not familiar with current develop­ments at Notre Dame, and to a group of guests who had little previous knowledge of Notre Dame at all. Father Cavanaugh has combined many of the informational high­lights that will be of service to all alumni in the Foundation program of acquainting friends of Notre Dame with the University today.) 
young men for life today we have a further responsibility. We believe that a university worthy of the name must teach men not only how to make a living, but also how to live. For that reason, underlying the various technological and scientific programs that we offer, is a program that we prescribe for all students. We insist upon this program, not because a student is going to be a lawyer, engineer, economist, businessman or teacher, but because he is a man, first of all. 

Post-War World 

Suppose we take a bird's-eye view. I don't know any serious or thoughtful men, and I am sure you don't, who are not gravely con­cerned about the state of the world; who don't, for example, look forward with con­siderable misgiving to reading the morning paper or listening to their favorite news broadcast. The situation abroad is bad; it is not getting better: and certainly we can­not derive much comfort from the domestic scene, where we are not recovering the po­litical, economic and social equilibrium that we thought would return almost automatic­ally, once the war was over. 
Although we hope for the best, as a mat­ter of realism we must fear for the worst. Not all the after aspects of the war have been bad. One hopeful sign for the future is the new and most vital consciousness of the relationship of the university to Amer­ican life and the responsibility that the uni­versity bears to the people. The war illus­trated the need, and in this post-war world we see, too, the effects of education. Bad education has had something to do with the failure of the United Nations. To put it most bluntly, there has not been a meeting of minds, and the inability of the delegates to reach some sort of accord is made awe­some by the thought of the destructive power of atomic energy, of supersonic pro­jectiles and planes, which the universities helped produce; and also by the fact that the nations of the world cannot count one another trustworthy to hold the secrets of science and to direct such secrets to the wel­fare and not to the destruction of mankind. 

Victorian Agnosticism to Communism 

One reason for the failure of minds to meet in peace is that education has been one-sided during the last century. The great universities rightly dedicated themselves to the physical sciences, but too many of them wrongly fell under the spell of Victorian ag­nosticism. Their thesis, implied if not ex­pressed, was that evolution explained every­thing in the universe. This attitude began in the biological sciences and spread to po­litical science. It resulted in Fascism, Nazism and Communism, which are based on force and fear, and not on the doctrine of inalien­able human rights. 
Contemporary world disregard, disorder and discontent are the results of irrespon­sible moral leadership. American institutions of higher learning must help to produce morally responsible leaders who can be trusted to foster the welfare of mankind and to handle wisely the products of science. The imiversities of the United States, granted the proper support by the people, can do more to secure our future than any other single agency. Notre Dame is a uni­versity which hopes to play an important role in this noble program. 

Physical Sciences Vital 

Notre Dame has always recognized and accepted its grave responsibility to help widen the horizons of physical science. Hence our significant work in synthetic rub­ber, in nuclear energy, in designing the germ-free technique in biology, hence our studies of nutrition. Notre Dame has always recognized and accepted its responsibility to ' give proper direction to the social, cultural, political and economic thinking of all its students so that it can turn over to the American people year after year, young men who can supply intellectual and moral lead­ership that can be trusted. 

Morality a Presupposition 

Notre Dame believes that the moral re­sponsibility of the great mass of men and women is a necessary presupposition to any kind of order or government in the world. This is a belief that the university shares with the founding fathers of the republic who hold that three fundamental truths must be taken for granted .by those people for whom a just government is to be formed: 
1) The existence of the Creator. 
2) A balance of rights and duties inherent in a human being. 

[Turn to next page"} 
3) The conviction that government exists to secure the rights of the governed. 

This concept, the basis of individual lib­ert)-, makes the American political system different from all others. This is the reli­gious root from which all our rights, po­litical and economic, draw their vitalit)-. Government exists to protect rights — the right of speech, to worship, to propcrt)' and to provide security in the holding of prop­crt}-. Government rooted in religion is man's agent; without religion government becomes man's master. The future of human liberty depends upon a reaffirmation of the political faith of our Fathers and upon a new ac­knowledgement of the proper relationship of man to his Creator, to his fcUow-man and his government. Because Notre Dame takes seriously these presuppositions of order and government and peace, the university sends out into the world clean, brave, intelligent young men whose training and character have constantly been held to one philosophy upon which true .Americanism can be based. Because the safet)- of the world depends upon the wise management of the scientific de­vices wc possess even more than upon the production of additional de%-ices, because more than anything else the world needs the foundation of a just and lasting order that can restore confidence to the minds of man, religious, moral and human values must re­ceive special attention from all educational agencies. The cycle has been completed. .•\ centur>- ago, science rejected God. Now the sciences have forced His return because of their terrifying inventions; the physical sciences have made the art and science of moral living the greatest necessity of the age. 
Morally Responsible Leaders 

The university has a responsibility to train leaders in science, but it has an even more urgent dut>-. The .'\merican university mu3t see to the education of its students in full perspective. The end and purpose must be the production of morally responsible leaders in all fields in which it offers curricula. The university must give sound scientific, tech­nological and profcssioanl training, but it must always remember that man is a moral being first, with rights and duties as such. Only when the university both trains and educates can it produce learned and also dis­ciplined and God-fearing leaders. 
Everyone a Partner of Notre Dame 

In effect, you and a school like Notre Dame arc partners, mutually dependent and mutually responsible. Our joint task is seek­ing out, encouraging and developing clear-thinking students; then we must offer them the best in education. The true values of education must inspire knowledge and give it purpose and direction. The ultimate strength of leadership lies in the complete grasp of these principles. Without this grasp the most brilliant man must fail to attain true leadership. The qualitj- of leadership that young men now in universities acquire is of concern to you. Your future depends upon the manner in which the university discharges its obligation. Your tomorrow depends upon the questions students ask and upon the answers that are given to them which today they accept. 

Alumni Guaranteed Tickets Under 1948 Football Plan 
By M. ROBERT CAHILL, '34 Ticket Manager 
Alumni contributors to the Sixth Annual Alumni Fund as of May 15, 1948. plus religious and honorary degree holders, will be eligible for ALUMNI blanks for foot­ball tickets. These blanks will be mailed prior to July I. good for o maximum of TWO tickets for all games, at home and away. Orders received by July 25 on ALUMNI blanks will be GUABANTEED against any sellout. Should the contributing alumnus desire to order additional tickets, non-alumni blanks will be furnished UPON REQUEST. Orders on non-alumni blanks will be accepted as long as the GENERAL sale lasts, beginning AUGUST 1. 
ALUMNI sale will open on July 1 and close on July 25. 
GENERAL sale will open on August 1, as heretofore. Application forms for this sale, transferable and NOT guaranteed, will be mailed to all NON-CONTRIBUTING alumni prior to August 1. 
The Season-Ticket offer is again available to the interested alumnus. This ticket carries no alumni priority, and locations currently available ore not choice. However, there is no quantity limit on the Season-Ticket. and it is offered at a re­duced price. The Season-Ticket sale will rtin from July I to August 15, and informa­tion will be furnished upon request 
Many alumni are already Season-Ticket holders. Because of inadequate supply of preferred seats, an alumnus who holds Season-Tickets will automatically relinquish his Alumni priority for the individual home games. 
The above plan for .-Mumni Football Ticket Distribution covering the 1948 foot­
Editor's Note: As all alumni know, 

ball season was approved by the Board of 
the Alumni Association has repre­
Directors of the Alumni Association during 
sented them at the campus level in 
a session with Herbert E. Jones, business 
securing the cooperation from other 
manager of athletics, and M. Robert Cahill, 
University departments thai would re­
ticket manager, at its Januar)' 10 meeting 
sult in courtesies, privileges and rec­
at Notre Dame. The plan was then sub­
ognitions which might be accorded to 
mitted to Rev. John H. Murphy, c.s.C, chairman of the Faculty Board in Control 
alumni as drcimistances permit For of .Athletics, who in turn reported the ap­example, the football ticket privileges proval of the Faculty Board. We now pre­— modified from time to time by ne­sent it to all Notre Dame alumni, asking cessity— have been a courtesy ex­that they give it careful attention. tended by the Athletic Department to qualified aliunni in good standing or 
A few innovations will be noted, and we 

to alumni who showed other active 
attempt to amplify and give the reasons for 
interest in Notre Dame, and the priv­
these changes, point by point. 
Ueges HAVE NEVER BEEN EITHER 
MoNnng the contributing deadline up to THE MEANS OR THE END OF May 15 (last year it was June 15) is for ALUMNI CONTRIBUTIONS to Notre purely mechanical reasons. Application Dame or to the Alimini Association. forms to contributing alumni are prepared The problem of satisfactory distribu­by the Ticket Office, but addressed by the tion of tickets has naturally been ag­Alumni Association. Last year's experience 
gravated by the rapid growth in 
proved that more time is needed by the 
numbers of alumni and in the in­
Alumni Association to bring its contribu­
creasing popularity of Notre Dame's 
tors' records and addresses up to the minute 
football games. With emphasis again 
before these blanks are mailed. 
on the thought that the ticket guar­
Reduction of the preference to two tick­antee is simply an incident to alumni ets is forced by the extremely rapid growth contribution to the University, the of our .Alumni Association, added to a simi­
Altuini Association hos received the 
lar increase in over-all alumni demand. 
accompanying plan for alumni con­
These factors have reached the point where 
sideration in 1948. As in years past 
the word "preference" can no longer be con­
applications of ALL alumni will, to the 
sidered to mean a choice seat for all. Rather, 
best of the Athletic Department's 
is must henceforth mean a ticket GUARAN­
ability, be recognized in the distribu­
TEE to the contributing alumnus, ahead of 
tion of tickets after the obligations to 
all others. The contribution is simply a 
alumni qualifying for the guarantee 
measuring-stick in an earnest effort to ra­
have been fulfilled. 
tion (forgive the word) short supply over swollen demand. [^Continued on page 39"] 
THE FACULTY 

Editor of the Review of Politics, an in­ternationally recognized authority on bol­shevistic and fascistic movements, 1947 re­cipient of the Notre Dame Lay Faculty .Award as the outstanding member of the faculty, a noted author — that, in brief, is a description of Dr. Waldcmar Gurian, pro­fessor of political science at the University. 
Dr. Gurian is an intellectual heavyweight whose pronouncements on Soviet aims have foreshadowed changes in the State Depart­ment's policies toward Russia. Long before the U. S. adopted its present policy of firm­ness. Dr. Gurian was declaring that attempts to appease Russia "would ha%-e the same disastrous effect as the appeasement of Ger­many had." 
Dr. Waldemar Gurian 

In 1939 Dr. Gurian became editor of the Review of Politics. Under his aegis it has become one of the nation's foremost jour­nals on national and international affairs, claiming readers throughout Europe, India, Australia, and all the Latin-American coun­tries. -Among its contributors are such au­thorities as Jacques Maritain, Robert M. Hutchins, and R. H. Tewney. 
Russian born. Dr. Gurian came to Notre Dame in 1937 from Lucerne, Switzerland, to which he was forced to flee in 1934 after his book. Hitler and the Christians, roused the wrath of the Nazis. He studied in Ber­lin, where he received the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in 1923. He was editor of the Cologne Votkszeitung and lectured at the Berlin School of Politics before fleeing Ger­many. 
Dr. Gurian carries a heavj- work sched­ule. Besides his duties on the Review of Politics, he teaches classes in international relations, the foundations of national power, and Russian government and philosophy, is in great demand as a lecturer, contributes to such publications as The Political Science Review, Foreign Affairs, and America, and has had four books published, all of which have been translated into several foreign languages. 
During his years at Notre Dame Dr. Gurian has distinguished himself as a po­litical lecturer throughout the country-. In­ternational affairs arc his special interest, and his analyses of current problems are drawing more and more attention. He has delivered a series of lectures at the Univer­sity of Chicago and has presented important papers at meetings of the .American Political Science .Association. 
Notre Dame Books 

BARDSTOWN, by Mattingly Spalding, St. Mary's Industrial School Press. $2.00. 
Today Bardstown, Ky., forty miles out­side Louisville, lies almost forgotten, like a bit of faded, helpless nobility in a raucously industrial civilization, but it is rich in memories of the days when it played an im­portant and gracious role in the drama of the Ohio Valley. 
George Mattingly Spalding, '31, now Brother Martin John, C.F.X., relates in Bards­town the drama and romance of a commu­nity that has one of the richest backgrounds of any town in .America. 
Bardstown tells the stoiy of a town that saw a great inventor end his life while others grew rich on his ideas: that saw gentlemen in ruffled shirts kill each other for no reason at all; that was given a Murillo, three van Dycks, two van Eycks, and a Rubens by a French king; that possessed the stately old home that inspired Stephen Foster to com­pose the song that set a nation to singing and weeping—"My Old Kentucky Home." 
The book was originally published in 1942 and has since gone into its third edition. 
Identifies Master 

Dr. Maurice H. Goldblatt, LL.D., '34, di­rector of the Notre Dame art galleries, has been credited with solving one of the world's art mysteries by identifying the 15th century French artist who has been known only as the Master of Moulins or as the Unknown Painter. 
Dr. Goldblatt, an art expert with an inter­national reputation, said in Paris that he had established beyond question that the painter was Jean Hay, sometimes known as Jean Clouet the elder. The discovery re­sulted from detective work that he had been pursuing for 20 years, partly on his own initiative and partly at the request of Ed­ouard Herriot, now president of the French .Assembly. 
Mrs. Catherine Boniias. whose donation has made possible the erection of a chapel on the University property at Land o'Lakes, Wis. (Story on poge 5). 
5 Family Members Get Med Training at N.D. 
Medical degrees have become a habit in the Hughes family of Columbus, Ohio. Pat Hughes, who will be graduated in June with a B.S., is the fifth brother to receive pre­medical training at Notre Dame. He ^vill enter medical school follo\ving his gradua­tion. 
Dr. Joseph Hughes was the first to matric­ulate at Notre Dame. He was graduated in '31, followed by Tom in '38, and Henry in '40. All three received their M.D.'s from the Ohio State University Medical School and all three practice in Columbus. 
The remaining brother. Bob, '45, -will be graduated from the St. Louis University Medical School in June. 
The distaff side of the family, too, is part of the medical profession. A sister, Mrs. S. 
H. Bergman, is the \vife of a dentist and was a dietitian before her marriage. .Another sister, Martha, is an X-ray technician at University Hospital, Columbus. 
Lectures at Seminar 

Dr. Herbert Ratner, who is best known for his enlightening lectures on Christian Marriage, was named recently as a visiting lecturer in a seminar course for science stu­dents at Notre Dame. Dr. Ratner, an im­portant exponent of the college of medicine at lAjyola University of Chicago, will con­duct a course concerned with the "Aristo­telian Philosophy on Health and Disease." 
Tho Notre Dame Alunmiis 

The New Nofre Dame Philosophy of Fund-Raising 
IN RETROSPECT 
by HARRy G. HOGAN, '04 

President of the Alumni Association and Chairman of the Board of Governors of the University of Notre Dame Foundation 
When the Board of Directors of the 
Alumni -Association, in its annual meeting in 
Januar)', 1947, determined to set up Re­
gional areas under the Direction of Notre 
Dame Governors, it went deeper into the 
vital question of endowments than it had 
anticipated. This is e\-idenced by the re­
vealing, interesting and informative report of 
Ernest M. Morris, '06, President of the .Asso­
ciate Board of Lay Trustees, appearing in 
the December issue of the ALUMXUS : 
"We, however, need a greater fund. It has 
now grown to $5,000,000 but it is ver>­
small compared to the actual needs of the 
University. I personally would like to sec 
the fund grow to $25,000,000 or $30,000,­
000, the income of which might approach 
$1,000,000 a year. This would do much in 
increasing the standards of the Universitj­
and would also help in the much needed 
building program. Five million dollars is ver)­
small compared to the endowment funds of 
these schools: 
Har\-ard $160,000,000 Yale 123,000,000 Chicago 71,000,000 Northwestern 62,000,000 
M. I. T. 48,000,000 (3,000 students) Vanderbilt 29,000,000 (2,000 students) DePauw 6,000,000 (1,400 students) Wabash 2,500,000 ( 500 students) 
"These figures are of 1946, and since then substantial increases have been made in enrollments and endowment funds. Notre Dame now has 4,800 students with facilities provided originally for the pre-war 3,200, and it is apparent that our endowment fund should be at least $25,000,000 or $30,000,­
000. Notre Dame is fighting a great battle. She needs ever^-one's help, whether Catholic or Protestant." 
Low Per Student Figure 
While the numbers of students for the first four colleges were not given, we know from other sources that Yale has $22,384.07 endowment per student, that M. I. T. has $16,000 of endo\vment per student; Vanderbilt, $14,500; Harvard, $14,364; Northwestern, $6,687.64: Chicago, $6,­441.50; Wabash, $5,000: DePauw, $4,285, and Notre Dame, $1,212.11 per student. 
This means that at three per cent, Yale's annual income per student from endowment is almost $700 while Notre Dame's figure in the same bracket is under $40 per student. 
The Alumni Board soundly sensed the University Endowment and Fund needs, and the emergency it posed. It was not all just the roll of the green or the course of events 
"Laissez-faire" Is Out 
that resulted in the disparit>' between Notre 
Dame and that of the other private schools. 
Many private schools adapted a "laissez­

faire" policy or kept their heads in the sands, or else determined, for ethical rea­' sons, not to go beyond mentioning casually their needs, and indicating their willingness to accept gifts. Those that pursued the "watchful waiting" polic)- or standing on the sidelines, may have permitted the impression, except for those among the inner circle, that needs were not pressing, and that the same self-suiBciency that obtained in the past.to meet demands would be forthcoming from 
within the various Universities themselves. 
(If there ever was a period when the policy of "laissez-faire" or no direct solicita­tion could be followed, that is a period of the past. Competition is intensive, not only for the general philanthropic dollar, but for the college share of it, which is being sought by competitive private schools, both Protestant and Catholic, and increasingly by the state universities. Previously, Notre Dame was prett)' much alone in the Cath­olic field. In the last ten years, many other Catholic colleges have increased fund-rais­ing acti\'ity.) 
Many of the smaller schools, according to a sur\'ey, "lacked the financial means to pub­licize and organize an aggressive canvass for funds." Many, too, were beguiled and de­toured by what appeared to be the unaggres­sive effort by other Universities to accumu­late endoivments. They overlooked the tru­ism—"things don't happen, they are brought about." So while there was a facade or smoke screen thrown up, suggesting that the successful Universities were not aggressively seeking funds, it did not portray the actual picture, the real story of energy activity and resourcefulness that was in process. 
Many of the Universities successfully en­dowed let it be assumed that they only "cultivated" prospects but did not solicit. They proceeded on the theory that it was quicker and simpler to angle for large con­tributions than to make an open effort for broader scale giving in the lower brackets. This had the added purpose of not convey­ing to those less informed the acute struggle that was in course to acquire funds. The task for seeking larger contributions was ver}' much under cover and limited to a small group of well-situated and influential solicitors. They could easily follow the policy of not asking the prospect immediately after placing his name on the "prospect list." 
There was briefing of the case, and an analy­sis of the best method of approach and who could best qualify to present the merits of the University in question. 
Alumni Funds Popular 

Many of the successful Universities like Harvard carried on an open, "naked-to-the­eye" canvass among its general Alumni and then, more carefully, there was followed a campaign of approach, first to the wealthier Alumni — the likely substantial givers. This program was not disclosed to the general public nor was the effort to stalk the larger sums limited to a few solicitors. Like any well-organized effort, the solicitors composed a very large team consisting of blockers, as well as actual ball-carriers. 
There was an effort, intentional or other­wise, on the part of some Universities to give the impression that they would not stoop or violate protocol by definitely asking a prospect. It is obvious to anyone who is engaged in any activity of selling or collect­ing, that there must be included the idea of asking, although it is not necessarily always couched in the ordinary "vernacular of gimme," but a request to buy is implied when a merchant displays his wares in the window or when a salesman drops into an office and shows his samples. 
It will be found that nearly every gift has to be preceded with a request or solici­tation, taken from one of the \-arious pack­ages or forms of request. 
A survey of any of the fund soliciting agencies -in the country-Community Chest, Red Cross or the like — always includes a request by literature, newspaper publicity and some form of doorbell ringing. This is on the theory again that "things don't hap­pen, they are brought about" or that col­lections are not made without a request. This does not imply that some people who have merely read about the Community Chest or the YMCA needs will not give without being personally solicited by an agency representative, but those in the know-recognize that they cannot depend on that type of indiscriminate voluntary giving. 
Change of Front 

Consequently, whatever motive or misin­formation, or lack of policy or campaign funds prompted an on-the-sidelines attitude, it has now been conclusively demonstrated through a change of front, that the old policy was unsound and erroneous. The "plight of private schools" has been well 
^ 
.^ 
•' 
 g^ ^ 
outlined by Hungate in his book, "Financing Higher Education" and emphasized by the 

0 : editorial in the News-Sentinel by Cliff Ward. It has dawned on those who were not "mar­ket-wise" that there has been a great and rapidly changing front on philanthropic giv­ing, and particularly through colleges. Fewer large fortunes were being developed, and much of what appeared to be such was diverted in taxes to Uncle Sam. That those who wanted to give generously,'out of deep desire, were limited because of rising costs of living and less net income after taxes. Those who were becoming newly rich were willing, as the opportunity was explained to them, to deprive Uncle Sam (with his sanc­tion) of some of his otherwise share of tax by giving to Universities. It has been dis­covered that this is beginning to have its limitations because of the net income to the giver, who has less purchasing power than formerly. 
A Bombshell 
The report of President Truman's commis­sion on higher education was a bombshell that shocked many of the proponents of private 

tt'. education. They already recognized that State Schools, supported by generous taxes and. Federal grants, were appealing, of necessity, to many parents, who, as Hungate said, "wanted a maximum of education at a minimum of cost." Under present condi­tions, they certainly get education "at the minimum of cost" through the Federal and State Governments. Whether they get a "maximum of education" is the question. 
Should the program of the President's Committee maintain, it would likely mean, at the minimum, two years of college educa­tion at no cost to the student or his parents, and naturally make the load lighter for the remaining two or more years. One of the significant utterances in the report was the following: 
"We may be sure that the private colleges and universities will, in the future as in the past, contribute immeasurably to the expan­sion and improvement of our facilities for 

M-. higher education, and it is to be hoped they will be able to find the necessary funds with­out increasing the cost to the individual. In the nature of things, the major burden for 
equalizing educational opportunities must rest on publicly supported institutions." 
(Italics are ours. Ed.) 

Notre Dame, under its established pro­gram, up to January, 1947, relied on the general notion prevailing that the University was not adverse to accepting gifts, but did not pursue any direct policy of solicitation, at least organizationally. The year 1946 re­flected 259 non-Alumni givers, from whom the national analysis indicates must come around 80% or more of any large quota of expected gifts or endowments. In fact, the total list of givers of $25 or more both from Alumni and non-Alumni through the University organization set up for permis­sive fund receiving, was only 893 persons, covering the years from 1942 to 1946 in-j elusive. This was far from being a base for A raising any large sum of money and would, in the main, be only good for around one-
half million dollars a year. If Mr. Morris is correct, that the endowment fund and/or building or both, required 25 to 30 million, to raise the last figure at $500,000 a year, would require 60 years. To raise one mil­lion dollars, properly allocated among givers from $100 to $1,000, would take 4,000 givers. If that many were not available in those particular brackets, 4,000 people giv­ing $50 and 12,000 giving $25 or a total number of 16,000 persons, would increase the fund from $500,000 and build up to around $1,675,000. Even at this rate, to raise 25 million or 30 million, it would take 20 years. 
(The gifts or contributions from alumni and non-alumni for the six years 1941-46 inclusive, were $1,031,698.69, or an average per year of $171,949. Now this average or the amount reached even in 1946, would not be sufficient to meet University needs. It was this and other facts that made it im­perative to expand fund-raising activities beyond the ones conducted during these years on the campus.) 
The purpose of the Universit>' of Notre Dame Foundation is to coordinate all fund­raising for the University, and to effect the important transition from the tradition of alumni giving on an annual "dues" and symbol basis, with the preferences and .pri­orities attached, to the contribution on a higher level of both motive and amount, based on the needs of the University as re­flected in the fiscal reports, and the outline of plans given to all alumni. The Foundation hopes to translate the "cover charge" con­cept of annual alumni giving to a real pro­gram of expansion of University achieve­ment. On this transition will ultimately rest the understanding and support of non-alum­ni friends, necessary to complete the envi­sioned future of Notre Dame. 
Stimulus to Clubs 

The Alumni Club programs, while pre­viously enjoyable and constructive in many ways, had little of the tangible, measuring qualities that permitted any close check on progress. Under the Foundation stimulus, "dollar shortage" or dollar accumulation for Notre Dame is a kind of universal and fa­miliar pastime in which club members and all alumni are both informed and interested. 
Notre Dame men, I am sure, have many reasons for joining the Local Alumni Club. It is commonly understood that the Ameri­can people are great joiners. Men join for selfish and unselfish reasons. They may be interested in the basic principles espoused. They may wish to meet others who belong. Added to all the reasons that prompt joining —and there are many others than those list­ed—and prompt the contributing of time and dues, there is through the Foundation pro­gram created the opportunity to — at the same time — do something constructive for Notre Dame. 
Conclusion 

Beyond the question of acquiring funds, the collective activities of hundreds of alumni, in common effort, solidify the alumni and friends of Notre Dame, and make them a cohesive unit, bound by the fraternal tie based on Alma Mater and Mother Church. If fimd raising is to be just carried on as a matter of course, it will de­velop a strong group of public relations representatives scattered over the coimtry who will advance and protect the prestige of the University as opportunities permit. 

Horry Hogon oiicf SfaW Commiffee of fouiidofioo Meet oil Campus Jan. 16 
On Jan. 16 and 17, the Staff Committee of the Executive Committee of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame Foundation met with Chairman Harry Hogan on the campus. This Committee — composed of Foundation Governors Berkery of New York; McMahon of Pennsylvania, Moore of Michigan, CNeill­of Ohio, Cassidy of Illinois, Hudson of Ten-' nessee and McGlynn of Missouri — was ap­pointed early in the Foundation program to serve as a closely affiliated group to give' frequent attention to the development of the Foundation staff and the organization of the Foundation office and program. The Com­mittee, representing a substantial and repre­sentative cross-section of alumni and geo­graphical population and support, has been most effective in its constructive participa­tion. 
At the January meeting, the Committee expressed itself generally as being in ac­cord with the 1947 program, and pleased with the report of the Foundation's first year. 
It joined in approval of the proposed highUghts of the 1948 program — the se­curing of 100 per cent alumni cooperation, the effort to translate increased alumni un­derstanding of Notre Dame's problems into increased alumni giving in amounts, and the program to increase — through alumni— the number of non-alumni friends actively supporting the University by contributions. 
Standard Practices Recommended 

The Committee approved of the Legal and Trust Committees to be appointed by City Chairmen. 
It suggested the development of standard practices, and standard forms for Foundation workers and speakers, which development is in process. 
It was at this meeting that Governor O'Neill (Ohio) suggested the tangible $200 adaptation of Father Cavanaugh's earlier generalization of Give-Or-Get, (See the Alumni Fund story in this issue) whereby each alumnus if he gives, or causes to be given, $200 each year to Notre Dame, can enable alumni to achieve the Foundation's objectives. 
Campus administrative and Foundation officers deliberated with the Staff Commit­tee on the reports and the proposals for 1948. 
By Boymond J. DonoTcm. '42. Assistant Dirsetor oi ^ » » Fublie Inionnotion 
ATHLETICS 
Basketball 

A smashing nine-point upset of the mighty Kentucky Wildcats, rated the No. 1 colle­giate team in the nation, got Coach Ed Krause's Notre Dame basketball team off to a good start in the second half of a rugged 24-game schedule after the Irish cagers had won eight of their first twelve games. 
The Blue and Gold quintet, rated ninth in the countr>- entering the Kentuck)' game, greatly enhanced their national reputation by staying with the highly-touted Ken­tuckians throughout the first half, in which the score was tied nine times and the lead changed hands no less than twelve different times, and then pulling au-ay in the second half to stage a major upset. 
Kevin O'Shea, turning in one of the most spectacular games of his collegiate career, hit 25 points to break the record for the number of points scored by a guard. The previous record was a total of 20, set by Bob Rensberger, in 1942. 
Although it was the work of O'Shea that stood out in the victory over Kentucky, the win was distinctly a "team \-ictor>'." Center John Foley displayed his greatest work of the season, both offensively and off the boards, while Leo Bamhorst stood out \vith his smooth ball-handling and rebound play. Paul Gordon, before fouling out late in the con­test, played a tremendous defensive game, while John "Buster" Hiller and Jimmy O'Halloran also played magnificently. 
Coach Ed Krause once again has molded a Notre Dame basketball team that ranks among the nation's leaders. 
Winners of nine out of their first thirteen games, the Irish cagers lost three of their four decisions by an aggregate total of five points, the only decisive beating being at the hands of Indiana, 72 to 46, in the Big Four Hoosier cage classic at Indianapolis. 
.'\fter opening up with a convincing 66 to 49 trouncing of Johnny Wooden's highly-respected Indiana State Sycamores, the Krausemen suffered their first defeat of the season two nights later at Champaign. Al­though leading through most of the contest, Notre Dame could not throttle a late Illi­nois rally and bowed by a slim 40 to 38 margin to an lUini five which is one of the favorites to cop the Big Nine Title. 
Notre Dame, plowing through one of the toughest early season schedules in history, overcame a 32 to 31 deficit at halftime to outrun Northwestem's Wildcats, 61 to 55, in the Chicago Stadium, thus gaining its second triumph of the season. During Christmas vacation, the Irish broke even in a two-game invasion of the west. A last minute bucket snatched Wctor)- from the Blue and 
Gold, 61 to 60, in their first appearance in Denver against a strong University of Denver team. On the ^vay back home, however, the Notre Dame quintet invaded Lawrence, Kans., and came through with a thrilling 51 to 49 victorj- over Coach Phog Allen's Kansas team. 
The Irish were "ice cold" in the opener of the Big Four holiday meet at Indianapolis between Notre Dame, Indiana, Purdue and Butler, and the Hoosiers from Indiana couldn't do anything wrong. The unhappy result was the aforementioned 72 to 46 defeat suffered at the hands of the Hoosiers. On the following night, however, reser\'e forward Johnny Goonen and sparkplug Jim O'Halloran hit two from the floor in the final minute to surge the Notre Dame five to a 42 to 40 win over Purdue. 
Starting with the Purdue encounter, the Irish launched a four-game winning streak. Coach Elmer Ripley, former Notre Dame mentor, brought his Georgetown team to the Notre Dame G)Tn on Jan. 5, and although former Irish players Ray Corley and Tommy O'Keefe sparked the Hoyas to great heights, Notre Dame outlasted the Washingtonians for a 77 to 69 triumph. 
Two nights later, Butler, who had de­feated Indiana the night after the Hoosiers beat Notre Dame at Indianapolis, invaded the local emporium and the Irish rose to the occasion by connecting on 48 per cent of their shots to romp to a 71 to 47 victory. The winning streak was extended to four three nights, later when Coach Krause's charges also ran the Notre Dame home win­ning skein to 37 games by polishing off DePaul, 52 to 46. 
St. Louis University, one of the nation's top teams, snapped the Irish streak by com­ing from far behind to eke out a 42 to 40 victor)- in Kiel Auditorium at St. Louis in one of the season's most thrilling contests. Notre Dame, after holding the lead almost from the beginning, built up an eleven-point margin early in the second half. Midway in the period, however, rebound expert Leo Bamhorst was forced to the sidelines for five minutes with a twisted ankle, and dur­ing his absence the Billikens narrowed the margin to four points. John Foley, 6'4}4" center, went out on personal fouls with ' three minutes left and Big Ed Macauley gave St. Louis its victor)- with a pair of lay-in shots. 
Kevin O'Shea, playing one of the finest games of his career, and Leo Bamhorst sparked the Irish to thirteen points in the overtime period to provide Notre Dame with a 59 to 48 victor)- over Northwestern in the second game of the season between the two schools. The count was knotted, 46 to 46, at the end of regulation time, but the Irish tallied thirteen points while holding the Wildcats to two to grab an easy win. 
* ^ DePauI's Gordon Gillespie and Whitie Kaehan otiempt to block Paul Gordon's shot At right is Ed Mikan. The game was won by Notre Dame. 52 to 46. 

Track 
Twenty-nine former monogram winners provide the nucleus for Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Handy's 1948 Notre Dame track and field squad. 
The Irish tracksters, led by Capt. Ernie McCulIough, senior from Calgary, Alberta, Canada, figure in early season calculations to be fairly strong in the dashes, hurdles and distance events. 
John Murphy, senior from St. Louis, and 
Bob Smith, sophomore from South Bend, 
will carry the hopes of the Notre Dame 
squad in the dashes. In the hurdle events, 
four monogram winners are back to bolster 
the event. They are: junior John Smith, 
Park Ridge, 111.; junior Bob McDavid, Mc-
Comb, Miss.; senior Bill O'Neil, Snogualmic 
Falls, Wash., and sophomore Bill Fleming. 
Captain McCulIough heads a list of four 
monogram winners in the 440-yard dash 
event, and the event is bolstered by such 
capable performers as Ray Sabota, junior 
from Wilkes-Barre, Pa.; Steve Provost, jun­

Northwestem's lim Ban and Notze Dame's Paul Gordon lunge for a free ball during 
ior from Bronx, N. Y.; Pat Kenny, junior 

the game in Chicago Stadium, while Kevin O'Shea. foreground, and N.U.'s Chet Stiu­
from Seattle, Wash. 

millo watch the action. Notre Dame won, 59 to 48. in an overtime period. 
A quartet of capable lettermen make the Notre Dame squad potentially formidable in 

Portland, Ore. Only one monogram winner fencers are sophomores and juniors, men the half-mile run. Bill Leonard, junior from 
Schenectady, N. Y., heads the list which also — Lou Tracy — is available in the high with one year of varsity experience and with jump, but he will be aided by sophomore at least one more year to go. 

includes Larry Keenan, senior from Dover, Tom Devine, of Jersey City, N. J. 

N. H.; Geny Johnson, sophomore from Jack­Capt. Lou Bums, of Washington, D. C, 
Jack Hunter, junior from South Bend, 

sonville, Fla.; and Sobota. Leonard also paces the monogram men returning to this 
and John Murphy, senior from St. Louis, 

paces the milers on the Irish squad, followed year's squad. Others include Robert Bosler, 
are the mainstays in the broad jump, while 

by John Lyons, junior from Bronx, N. Y.; Louisville, Ky.; Michael DeCicco, Newark, 
Ray Struble, senior from Vinton, la., and 

Lou Tracy, junior from Franklin, O., and N. J.; Peter Gross, Brooklyn; James Jansen, 
Jim Miller, sophomore from Schenectady, 

Jim Kelly, sophomore from San Gabriel, Cal. Altoona, Pa.; Robert Schlosser, Springfield, 
N. Y., will carr\- the Irish hopes in the pole 

The Handymen will be exceedingly strong 111.; and Ralph Witucki, South Bend. 
vault. 

in the two-mile run, with four monogram Three lettermen — Bosler, Schlosser and winners available. The group is headed by Witucki — team with non-lettermen Ed^vard Jim Murphy, junior from East Providence, Fencing Martin and Thomas Roney to make the 
R. I., and includes equally capable perform­Seven lettermen from last year's squad Irish unusually strong in the sabre event. ers in Cornelius Styers, junior from New have returned for competition this year to Monogram winners Bums and DeCicco com­
York City, Lou Tracy and Jim Kelly. enable Coach Herb Melton to hold much bine with sophomores Gerald Lubin and brighter prospects for his Irish fencing squad. Colin McDonald to provide the mainstay of 
In the shotput, a pair of footballers hold 

Coach Melton, a monogram fencer in 1941 the foil event. In the epee. Gross and Jansen forth for Notre Dame's chief threats. George 
and 1942, is starting his second year as are the mainstays and team with Ralph Dixon Sullivan, senior from East Walpole, Mass., is coach of the sport. The majority of his and Jerry Dobyns to round out the team. 
backed up by Floyd Simmons, junior from 

Fencer Bob Bosler stands cornered by teammates Roney. Capt. Lou Bums scores by a stop thrust on leny Lubin. 
Witucki. DiCicco, and Schlosser. Pete Grosse calls the point and Coach Herb Melton looks on. 
New Honors for the Fighting Irish 
National Champions of 1947 Feted by St. Joe Club 
The national football champions of 1947 whenever possible, championships should be were honored by the folks at home on Jan won on the field." 12 when the Notre Dame Club of the St. There were numerous other highlights in Joseph Valley conducted its 28th annual the program. Wrist watches, civic awards civic testimonial banquet for the team and from generous citizens of South Bend, were the coaches. -An overflow crowd of almost presented to the team members, assistant 1,200 attended, and hundreds were un­coaches and student managers. The presen­able to buy tickets. The scene was the Notre tation was made by Louis S. LaPierre, vice-Dame Dining Hall. president of the South Bend Association of 
Commerce. -And Frank Leahy, head foot­Topping the speaking program was the ball coach, received a Studebaker Land address of Rev. John H. Murphy, c.s.c, 
Cruiser sedan from a group of his friends. 
vice-president of the University and chair­man of the facult>' board in control of ath­The Dr. Henr>' L. Williams trophy, spon­letics. Father Murphy told cheering listen­sored by the University of Minnesota "M" ers that he was "sure that all of us, includ­Club, was presented to Notre Dame by ing the coaches and players of the ver)-fine Vernal (Babe) LeVoir and Francis (Pug) Michigan squad of this year, believe that Lund, representatives of Minnesota and 
IRISH RECEIVE NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP THOPHY 
Ber. John H. Murphy. C.S.C., University Vice-President, and Coach Frank Leahy receiving the Henry L. Williams trophy emblematic of the National Championahip from Vernal LeVoir, President of the Minnesota "M" Club. The trophy presented by the "M" club, and based on the Associated Press poU. is now the permanent pos­aession of Notre Dame having been won by the Irish three times. At eztrama right is TtanoM (Pug) Lund, famous Minnesota All-Americeoi. A new trophy was on­noimced, for similar competition, by the Notre Dame Monogram Club, to be named in memory of the late Bev. I. Hugh O'Donnell, CS. C monogram man, priest and N. D. President 
FBANE LEAHY 

football stars there in earlier days. The 
trophy, emblematic of the national football < championship, was won three times by 
Notre Dame and thus retired. 
The evening's program was sparked by the toastmaster. Con McCole, Wilkes-Barre, Pa., a • humorist of exceptional ability. Mr. McCole was introduced by John E. Mcln­tyre, president of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, after Rev. Bernard 
J. Ill, c.s.c, asked the blessing. 
Other speakers were Mayor George A. Schock, '18, of South Bend, Coach George Munger, of the University of Pennsylvania, Capt. Thomas Hamilton, USN, coach at Annapolis, Coach Jeff Cravath of the Uni­versity of Southern California, Warren Brown, Chicago newspaperman and the father of three Notre Dame students; Jim Costin, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune, who introduced visiting sports writers; Joe Bolaiid, sports announcer for WSBT, South Bend, who introduced radio celebrities, and Capt. George O'Connor and Ziggie Czarobski of the team. Coach Cra­vath presented All-American certificates and sweaters 'to Connor and Johnny Lujack in the name of the All-America Board of Foot­ball. 
Also present, and introduced from the head table, were the following coaches: Stu Holcomb, Purdue, Bob Voigts, Northwest-em, and Bemie Masterson, Nebraska. 
Coach Leahy introduced the 37 mono­gram winners. The hall lights were blacked out and, as members of the school band softly played the strains of the "Victory March," the players stepped into the glare of a spotlighted platform to be introduced. 
The evening's climax was reached when Coach Leahy told the players who return here for competition next autumn, "We are pointing for another national championship in 1948." 
Father Murphy, a fire department fan, came in for a bit of banter when he was ^ presented a miniature automobile painted and equipped in the best tradition of the fire fighters. 
Speaking in the absence of Rev. John 
J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c, president, absent from the city on University business. Father Mur­phy said that "I am sure you and I and many millions of other football fans . . . have no reason to disagree with the votes of the nation's sports writers in the Asso­ciated Press poll at the end of the regular season, which has come to be accepted as the final word on this subject; and that we also heartily concur with the logical assur­ance of the .Associated Press that a post­season poll was not intended to supersede the vote at the end of the regular season." 
Quoting a statement by Coach Cravath, whose Trojan squad was beaten 38-7, in Notre Dame's final 1947 game. Father Mur­phy said, "fighting Irish fans can admire this man who said: 'You can't beat the best unless you play the best.' " 
The Notre Dame vice-president scored those who, he said, erroneously claim that "at Notre Dame football is an end unto it­self." Such people, he added, are "thorough­ly unfamiliar with Notre Dame, its ends and its purposes . . . All others know for ex­ample that Notre Dame's discipline is ex­ceeded only by that of a military institution. That is why they send their sons to Notre Dame. That is why we have had to turn away 10,000 applicants for each of the last two years." 
Father Murphy added support to the be­lief that the Notre Dame-.'\rmy gridiron sc­ries, interrupted after 34 years last Nov. 8, would some day be resumed when he re­ferred to the final game, saying, "I am sure, too, that after their brief encounter both student groups will heartily endorse Colonel Blaik's (Army Coach Earl Blaik) statement: 'Anyone who says that the Army-Notre Dame game will never come back is crazy. He simply doesn't know.' " 
Lavishly heaping praise on Leahy and his 
GEORGE CONNOB Captain of the 1947 bish 

football players. Father Murphy concluded by saying: "Tonight and this year and every night of every year we have one, and only one, nominee for the coach of the year, Frank Leahy 1" 
Francis M. Messick was the hard-working and efficient general chairman of the ban­quet. The following club members gave him special assistance as members of the banquet committee: Frank Miles, Al Mc-Gann, Joe Boland, Francis Jones, Clarence Harding, Bill Broderick, John Kemer, Jerry Crowley, Jim Armstrong, John Mclntyre, Vince Fagan, Louie Bruggner, Art Haley, Herb Jones, Tom Hickey, Jr., and Joe Han-non. Dean J. E. McCarthy and John "Judge" Carberr)- in Los Angeles also gave particular aid. 
David C. Ford, manager of the Dining Hall at Notre Dame, was in charge of eating arrangements. H. Lee Hope, director of the University bands, provided the music. Bill CuUen, a student, directed the orchestra the night of the banquet in place of Prof. Hope, who was ill. 
Alumni Director Sfns$99 Founcfofion's ImporfoMce 
Rev. Vincent Brcnnan, '32, popular curate of Holy Angels parish, Pittsburgh, newly elected member of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association, wrote to H. G. Hogan, Association President, after the January meeting. Father Brennan's reactions are of interest to many alumni: 
"First of all, may I here in writing, reiterate what I told you in person at Notre Dame? . . . You and the other officers, the other members of the Board and the members of the Alumni Association in general can count on my complete cooperation and assistance in any way that I can be of service in fur­thering the program and attaining the aims and objectives of the Aliunni Association and the Foundation. For I cannot separate the two — the Foundation is so intimately connected with the Alumni Program, so closely integrated with it, that the success of the one will automatically mean the suc­cess of the other. 
"As I see it, (and 'I speak as an ordinary Alumnus who has just for the first time sat in on a Board of Directors Meeting) the Foundation Program is the most important and most vital development at Notre Dame since Sorin and his associates laid the brick for the first building over 100 years ago. And just as Sorin's brain-child started in the face of discouragement, nurtured in sur­roundings of disaster and hardship, has grown into the magnificent University which we know today, so too, must this child — the Foundation—attain the normal and nat­ural growth of a healthy child and attain a stature that will enable the University to be as outstanding in its second century of ex­istence as it has been in its first. 
"To attain that end — like every normal child, it must grow and be nurtured and blossom first in the confines of its own fam­ily — and then reach further and full devel­opment in its contacts and associations with thhe elements of society outside the family. .\nd so too with the Foundation Program— not only was.it bom in the family of Notre Dame — but it mtist grow and be strength­ened there first — in the Faculty, the Stu­dents, the Alumni of the University — in fact, all those who share in the Family spirit of Notre Dame. Then it, too, as it grows older and develops, must come to full stature and growth through outside influ­ences and contacts with the thousands of people who, though not actual members of the Family, know it so well that they pride themselves in being neighbors and friends and associates of the University . . . 
"To my htunble way of thinking, the Foundation Program when properly under­stood and grasped will serve as the greatest unifying element that has ever been pre­sented to the alimmi of the Univeraity and will stimulate activity and enthusiasm in the minds and hearts of all loyal Notre Dame men. When one knows the family back­ground of this child we can foresee nothing but ultimate success for it in the future. 
IContinued on page 39] 

Frank Leahy converses with Francis M. Messick. right and Con McCoIe. of 'VKlkes-Bane. Pa., toastmaster. 
The \tudents foday 
Hilma Secty, Rebel Ball Queen 

Carnival Time ior the Needy 
Shrove Tuesday, traditionally a time of festivities before the start of Lent, was marked on the campus with a mammoth Mardi Gras Carnival in the Navy Drill Hall, but there was more behind it than the leg­endary' last fling. It was the wind-up of a three-month drive to raise $35,000 for for­eign student relief. Although final figures had not yet been released, it was believed that the goal was reached. 
The carnival, held on Feb. 9 and 10 under the chairmanship of Bill Duggan of the Blue Circle, was featured by some 30 concessions operated by campus clubs. The activities included dancing, basket shooting, dart games, various games of chance, auctions, and refreshment stands. The most popular booth was the baseball thromng concession 
— a hit on the target reelased a catch which dunked a heroic student into a pool of water. 
The high spot of the fund-raising cam­paign was the giving away of two automo­biles, a Chrysler Town and Country and a Plymouth, at the carnival. Donations for this alone totalled approximately $30,000. 
EverYthing but the Rebel Yell 
A breath from the deep south wafted through the Palais Royale on Feb. 6 when the Rebel Club, composed of students from 11 southern states, held its second annual Mardi Gras Ball. The eleven-starred Con­federate flag draped the band stand; white-gloved, grease-smeared "black boys" opened doors in courtly fashion; and no less that the pulchritudinous Queen of Cotton, Hilma Seay, was imported from Memphis, Tenn., by the club to reign over the ball. 
Wib Marshall escorted the brown-eyed brunette beauty to the ball. Her court was made up of Mrs. Coy McGee, wife of the star halfback, who is president of the Rebels, and Nancy Curry and Rosemary Paulin, dates of the ball co-chairmen. Bill Slavick and Dick Bevington. 
Something New in Radio WND, a radio station that doesn't broad­cast, is the accomplishment of four engi­neering students. The station uses a "car­rier current" tj-pe of transmitter designed 
and built by John Clemens, Evansville, Ind.; 
Frank Cronan, Waterbur>', Conn.; Peter Rei­
ner, Montreal, Canada; and John Jones, 
Boonton Lakes, N. J. The broadcasts are 
fed directly to the electrical conduits in the 
halls and cannot be picked up by radios off 
the campus. 
Funds for WND, which is on the air from 
6 to 8 p.m. daily, were supplied by the Stu­
dent Council, and financial support is plan­
ned through the limited presentation of com­
mercial programs, as well as through a 
$1500 donation from the University. 
Similar broadcasting stations are in use at 
Yale, Pennsylvania and Princeton, which 
have established an intercollegiate nettvork. 
The Great Storm 
Hardened Eastern students returning to the campus after the Christmas holidays brought with them tales of hardships and heroic deeds suffered and performed in the Great Snow. To classmates who spent the vacation in balmy Indiana they recounted stories of hazard-strewn forays into the raw elements to attend the alumni Christmas hops. Some gloated over successful comple­tion of their missions, most bemoaned their 
failure. Apparently those who attended the dances came from that hardy set quartered in Breen-Phillips and Farley Halls. To them, conditioned as they were by mid-winter jaunts across the gale-swept campus to the dining hall, the Great Snow held little that could be frightening. The most dazzling success was scored by the New Yorker who beat his way across the far reaches of Long Island to pick up his date and return to the Waldorf. By 
The queen o! the Rebel Club Mardi Gras Ball is put through Prof. Leonard Semmer displays an award won by one of the paces by her escort, Willoughby Marshall. his star debaters, Frank Finn, left 
RIGHT: Down, down he goes into the pool when a sharp­shooting baseball thrower hits the target that dumps him from the platform into the drinlc. This concession, one of 30 at the Mardi Gtas Carnival in the Navy Drill Hall for the benefit of foreign student relief, was operated by the Rock Biver Club. ABOVE: Four fast-talldng New Jerseyites guessing the young 
lady's weight at another concession. 
taxi, train, afoot, on a beer truck and snow plow he managed to complete the round trip and stage a grand, if somewhat frozen, en­trance into the Starlight Roof. 
Liberal Spokesman 
Ellis .'Xrnall, former governor of Georgia and one of the south's leading liberal spokes­men, spoke to an audience of students, fac­ulty, and townspeople that crowded Wash­ington Hall to the doors on Jan. 23. 
Mr. Arnall said that the nation has little to fear from attempted communistic en­croachments because the American people are too well steeped in the tradition of free­dom and opportunity. "The fight we have to make," he added, "is a fight against ig­norance, against discrimination, against eco­nomic and social injustice. The only hope for the world is in the field of human rela­tions." 
Arrangements for Mr. Arnall's appearance were made by the Rebel Club, and his talk was co-sponsored by the SCHOLASTIC, Stu­dent Council, and the Law Club. 
Earning While Learning 
.Appro-ximately one-seventh of the student body is employed by the University, accord­ing to Mrs. Inez Van Scoik, who is in charge of student employment. 
The largest group works in the dining halls, and the others are employed in such varied positions as office, library and labora­tory assistants, laundry workers, student pre­fects, building custodians, personal secre­taries, and newscarriers. 
The Tolerant SCHOLASTIC 
The SCHOLASTIC seems to have mellowed with maturity. Older students who remem­ber the magazine's cynical reporting of St. Mary's affairs, social and otherwise, look with amazement on the tolerant attitude adopted by the campus organ. 
In its account of the annual winter snow carnival held at St. Mary's, the SCHOLASTIC concluded the story by saying that "the gen­eral male opinion was that the affair did much towards erasing tea dance memories and arousing hopes for the future." Which may be faint praise, indeed, but still far 
removed from the savage blasts of the past. 
Echoing Leather 
The fieldhouse is once again echoing to the sound of gloves rattling against punch­ing bags. Training for the 17th annual Ben­gal Bouts, which will be held on March 8, 9, 10, with the finals on the 12th, is under­way as the leather and liniment boys pre­pare themselves for the campus champion­ship bouts. 
Last year's bouts were the most successful ever conducted, more than $5000 being con­tributed to the Bengal Holy Cross Missions in Pakistan. 
The New Generation 
Alumni who, in their student days, had to brave the Indiana winds and cold whenever they wanted an ice cream cone or coke of a winter evening, may curl their lips in disdain at the soft present-day students. 
All that is required now if there is a de­sire for some sweets is a trip to the base­ment of the residence halls. Ice cream, coke, and rootbeer dispensing machines have been installed in the halls on the frontier fringe of the east section of the campus. The boys of BP, the Farleyites, and the Cava­naughites are well pleased. 

Back to the Books 
All is quiet on the professional football front, and with the cessation of hostilities many former Irish football stars returned to the campus at the start of the spring semes­ter to resume their undergraduate work or to do graduate work. 
Among those taking up their books again are John Yonakor, Cleveland Browns end; Jim Mello, Boston Yanks fullback; George Ratterman, Buffalo Bills quarterback; Bob Skoglund, Green Bay Packers end; Herb Coleman, Chicago Rockets center; and George Tobin, New York Giants guard. 
The Old Timers, it seems, will have plenty of talent to throw against the varsity this spring in the annual Varsity-Old Timers game. 
Woidy Contestants 
The football teams are not the only na­tional championship aggregations turned out at N.D. This season the Irish debaters are aiming for their third straight national championship in as many years. 
Prof. Leonard Sommer, professor of speech and mentor of the debate team, turns out a crew of wranglers that are at or near the top of the national forensic heap year after year. During its ten-month season the debaters will match oral fireworks with other universities in 95 dual meets and tour­neys. Auguring well for next year's team, a group of novice debaters, who never before had debated in intercollegiate competition, swept to first place in eight events at the Purdue University Novice Invitational Meet on Feb. 7 to top teams from 62 colleges. 
The varsity team is made up of Frank 
Finn, president; James Beymer, Tim.Kelley, 
Sam Hazo, James Reedy, Will Dixon, Will 
Gary, Walton Collins, Lou Duerinck, Joe 
Dukert, Tom Niimeman, Quintin Marlow, 
Lawrence Gilling, and Joe Shelley. 

MOVIE STARS DISPLAY TALENTS AT J 
.^IJB RALLY FOUNDATION LEADERS ATTEND 
MEETINGS IN DALLAS, HOUSTON 
2000 Jam Southern Caf 
Pre-Game Celebrafion 

In California, where the movies arc born, practically evcr\'thing is stupendous and su­percolossal, but even in a land where the superlative is common and the amazing is ordinar)-, the Notre Dame Club of Los An­geles could well crow over its Southern Cal pre-game rally on Dec. 5 at the Biltmore. 
The top-notch movie and radio talent that the club collected for the rally presented a show that was a rousing warm-up for the rousing game ne.xt day. The audience of 2000, tumultuously applauding each show-stopping act, realized that they were seeing a galaxy of stars rarely brought together on one show bill. 
Vernon E. Rickard, '24, who was general chairman of the rally, made the arrange-n!% ts for the appearance of the stars. In thanking them he said that "I would like to express my grateful appreciation to all who so graciously accepted our invitation. By contributing so generously of their tal­ents they made this night a memorable one for all of us." 
PiaURE IDENTIFICATION 

I—Lou Coslello (Abbott & Costello) 
2—Bill Thompson (Fibber McGee and 
Molly Show). '"Mr. Oldfimer," "Mr. 
Boomer." Etc. 

3—Page Cavanaugh Trio — (Popular Re­
cording Artists) 

4—^Jimmy Burke—(Movie Star) 
5—Danny Thomas (MGM) 
S—^Jimmy Durante — Jack Roth — Eddie 
Jackson 

7—Former monogram men. Creighton 
^Miller al mike, and, left to right. Bill 
"Cook, Mai Elward. Hoot King. Joe 
O'Neill. "Red" Maher. Fred Carideo. 
Bemie Crimmins, J. Kuharich. Ed Beinor. 
Laurie Vejar. Marty Brill. Nordy Hoff­
man. Ben Alexander and Alec Shel­
logg. 

8—^Dennis Day 
9—Hugh Herbert ("Mr. Wooo-Wooo") 10—Hon. Joseph Scotl 11—^Walter O'Keefe introduces Rev. Father 
John Murphy (Vice-Pres. and N.D. Rep­

resentative) 12—Frank McHugh (Going My Way) 13—^Margaret Whiting, Capitol Recording 
Star — "Official Honored Hostess of Bally." 14—Walter O'Keefe introducing Vernon Rickard. '24. Gen. Chairman IS—Robert Alda (Warners) and Co.. (left 
to right) Bill Burtiss—(Midget) Cirella, 
Larry Rio. Robert Alda. Cirella and 
Vince Bamett. Skit—^Movie Burlesque 
—^"The Stand-In" 

If^Pat O'Brien introducing Coach Frank 
Leahy 
Governor Swift Arranges Meetings in Texas Cities 
.As the .ALU.MNUS headed for the press. Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, c.s.c, and Harr\­
G. Hogan, Foundation Chairman, were headed for Te.xas, where Foundation Gov­ernor James P. Swift had arranged meet­ings in Dallas on Feb. 3 and in Houston on Feb. 5, the latter under the leadership of Foundation Chairman George Strake and Conroy Scoggins. 
In his Te-xas talks to Foundation workers. Chairman Hogan planned to stress the plight of the private school, common not only to Notre Dame but to every other private edu­cational institution. Chairman Hogan sums up this statement very effectively in his talk to the Dallas Foundation Committee, alumni and guests as follows: 
"The plight of privately-owned educa­tional institutions in this countr>- is indeed becoming a serious one from a financial point of view. With our normal revenues reduced by reason of increased taxes on those who normally contribute to them gen­erously and with the spiraling costs of op-, erations affecting all of them, the privately-operated schools are in the unhappy position of being forced to compete in their necessary capital expansions with institutions that have little difficulty in obtaining tax funds. 
"The importance of privately-owned schools in the countrj- must be apparent to all who highly regard the opportunity in this countr\- for provision of opposite points of view. 
"In saying this, I am not deprecating, of course, the importance of publicly-owned in­stitutions, but only pointing out that the general principle of academic freedom can be best ser\ed where there is allowance for the existence of schools which may, if they wish, teach principles which at any particu­lar time may not be in accord with those who temporarily or permanently control the channels of state points of view. If there is any danger of the doctrine of statism be­coming generally accepted in this country, then the best measure to forestall the ac­ceptance of this false doctrine is the exist­ence of privately-owned schools, answerable for their teachings only to their own splen­did sense of right and wrong. 
"The University of Notre Dame, like all other privately-operated schools in the coun­tr\-, is to my mind doing an exemplar)' job of teaching the basic American principles of political science around which our way of life is wrapped. Our .American heritage could be squandered quickly, I believe, if schools such as Notre Dame were forced by economic conditions either to cease being or to embark upon programs far short of the objectives of which they are capable and de­sirous. 
"I am ver>' proud to have a part, as President of the Notre Dame .Alumni As­sociation, and as Chairman of the Uni­veisity Foundation, in this part of the pro­gram, which James Swift, as Notre Dame Governor, has arranged for Dallas, and other Notre Dame centers in Te.xas. I feel no^ hesitancy in saying that the plight of Notre Dame, as well as the plight of all other pri­vately-owned schools, is one which should seriously interest every thinking individual who has a high regard for the permanency of the -American philosophy. What is being done by the friends of Notre Dame in Texas, is a recognition of this fact and a sound step in the right direction." 
The Texas trip also included several planned visits with individual friends of the University and Foundation workers in cen­ters where no formal meetings will be held. 
OrganizoffOfi of Legal 
Committees Under Way 
Notre Dame's law alumni will find 1948 a banner year. 
City Chairmen of the Foundation are be­ing asked — after their general City Com­mittee is formed — to organize a Legal and Trust Committee. The principal objective of this Committee will of course be to foster the inclusion of Notre Dame in wills and bequests. 
There will be, however, many other rami­fications of tax benefits, scholarship forms, and other types of giving which will make such a Committee useful. 
In conjunction with the organization of these Committees, 1948 will also find pre­pared for these Committees and all inter­ested alumni a booklet on legal forms of wills and other giving to Notre Dame. 
The association of law alumni — gradu­ates of Notre Dame's College of Law and Notre Dame Ia\s7ers who took their law elsewhere — is rounding out plans for or­ganization which are expected to be an­nounced in full at Commencement. 
Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, c.s.c, has been busily engaged in a census of Notre Dame lawyers which will result not only in a sound membership roster for the association, but also in the publication of a Legal Director)­of great practical value to all members. (If you haven't heard from Father Sweeney and are in law, write him.) 
-And the President of the University, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c, has announced that the College of Law is to have an Ad­visory Council, composed of outstanding na­tional leaders in the profession, who will be a source of stimulus as has been the Advisory-Council on Science and Engineering. 

ALUMNI CLUBS » » 
m 
Akron 
The annual Xotrc Dame scholarship benefit dance . at the Ma\-flo\ver Hotel, Dec. 27, under the cliair­manship of Vice President HUGH M, COLOPY, w-as a notable success. About 300 couples attended, and the Scholarship Fund will gain just about $1,000. 
The club is. this year, offering a §2,000 scholar­ship, parable at tlie rale of $500 annually, to the successful high school graduate applying to and approved by a disinterested selection board composed of three prominent citizens of Akron. 
The club continues to hold monthly meetings the first Tuesday noon of each month at Krakers Old Heidelberg Restaurant and will hold its an­nual election of officers at tlie Universal Xotre Dame Night Banquet the first week of April, and the winner of the scholarship au-ard will, it is planned, be announced at that function. 
JOHN M. KELLY 
Boston 
On Dec. 7 the members of the club gathered for a Communion Breakfast. Father CORNELIUS DON­OV.A,N, '10, pastor of St. Monica's, made arrange­ments in his church including the playing of the "Victory March" in slow tempo by the organ as the men entered the church. The alumni were joined by several fathers of present students. 
After Mass, 35 men repaired to the Hotel Manger. Our appreciation to Chairman JOHN HERBERT and TOM KLNNEALY for a fine breakfast. JL\I DOOLEY told of his "junket" lo the Navy and .\rmy games including several da\-s visit on the campus. The principal speaker was BILL STEW­ART'S father, the famous National League base­ball umpire. His interesting experiences as a col­lege coach, manager of the Chicago Blackhawks, hockey referee, etc., stressed the importance of hard work and the courage to do what one thinks is right. President MORAN had a great deal to tell us after the bus>' meeting of the club presidents on thj campus. 
The campus club held Its annual Christmas Dance at the Hotel Statler on Dec. 26. A heaw snow­storm kept down the attendance and prevented it from being a financial success. The alumni are hop­ing to do something to help tliem out. 
We welcome some recent additions to our mem­
benhip list: Commander WILLIAM HAWKES, '32, 
BENJ.AMIN C. POLLARD, '34, with United Shoe 
Machinery-, JOHN S. HICOK, '27, with R. H. 
White. 
JACK N'\'E DUFF\' 
Central New York 
"Football Highlights of 1948" and elections are on the agenda for a meeting to be held March 15 at the University Club, so have the income tax filled in early and be on hand. Beer, movies and elec­tions at 7:30 p. m.—University Club. ED KENE­FAKE will play the role of Sam Goldw\Ti. 
The Christmas semi-formal dance, sponsored by the campus club, was a huge success. The dance was held Jan. 3 in the East Ballroom of the Hotel Syracuse. A queen, chosen from the dates of the present students, was selected. ^L\RK MOONEV and HAAVLEY VANSWALL had the pleasant task of selecting the queen. About 25 alumni couples were present. Let's double that ntmiber next year be­cause it's a grand affair. TED DWYER. local cam­pus club prex>-, was ably assisted by J.AMES iL\N ­NING, PHIL KELLEY, J.\MES FARRELL, and professor, labor relations expert, etc., has taken on 
additional duties at the newly founded Jesuit col­
lege, LeMoyne, located in Sjracuse. Dan is now a 
professor in the Labor Relations School.' JOHN 
TERRY has been appointed supen'isor of the city's 
12th Ward, an elective office. 
Congratulations to ED BURKE and Harriet Gool­
cy, and FRANK CASHIER and Clair* McNally on 
their recent engagements. ED KENEFAKE and 
HAAVLEY VANSWALL had additions to the family 
since last writing. 
JOHN H. TERRY 
Cincinnati 

The second annual Notre Dame Scholarship Ball wns held on Inn. 2 in the Pax-illion Caprice of the Hotel Netherland Plaza. Under the direction of General Chairman JOHN COTTNGHAM and his hard working committee, BILL MIDDENEHDRF, ED MERSXL\N, BOB HUGHES, BOB LEONARD, RAY GUDMENS, and student representative, JOHN CRONIN, the ball was not only the most out­standing social sucess of the Christmas season in Cincinnati, but also an extremely profitable function for the Scholarship Fund. Over eight hundred per­sons danced and watched an appropriate floor show by professional entertainers from our better night clubs. In two years the Ball has gained sufficient stature to become an institution in Cincinnati. 
On Jan. 13, the club was honored by a visit from the Rev. JOHN J. CAVAN.AUGH, C.S.C., presi­dent, and Rev. HOWARD KENNA, C.S.C., director of studies. Under the chairmanship of HOWARD ROHAN, assisted by JACK BRODBERGER, a banquet Avas held at the Hotel Alms with the mem­bers, their wives and friends in attendance. Father Ca\^naugh was presented ^vllh a set of Rookwood book ends by the members of the local Alumni Association. He delivered a timely address on Cath­olic Education and its power In combatting Com­munism; and in his usual WTse and understanding manner entertained the questions of the guests on the equally important subject of football and the 1943 season. 
JOHN C. COrnNGH.\M 

Cleveland 
Religious Activities Chairman KARL MARTER­STECK announced that the annual club retreat to be held at St. Stanislaus Retreat House the week end of Feb. 13, the first week end in Lent. HUGH BALL and BOB HACKMAN were chairmen oE the event. 
Dallas 
The club sponsored its first. Christmas dance—a formal affair at the Dallas Athletic Club on De c 22. Member: of the Dallas Foundation Committee, under the chairmanship of THOMAS BR/\NIFF, were honored by the club at the dance, and stu­dents at the University were also guests of the club. 
ED HAGGAR, Dx\N FOLEY, and GEORGE BECKER were In charge of arrangements for the dance. 
Denver 
Members of the Notre Dame basketball team came back to the campus from their trip to Denver singing the praises of the Notre Dame Cluh of Denver who, in the words of squad members, help­ed make possible *'the best basketball trip In the history of the University." 
GENE BLISH, Dr. DAN MONAGHAN and their associates really went all out in their efforts to make the first appearance of an Irish quintet in Denver on De c 20 an extremely pleasant stay. And the extreme appreciation of the Notre Dame team is 
m
ample indication of their success. 
After meeting Coach ED KRAUSE and his bo>-s at the station on the morning of Dec. 20, the Den­ver Club provided cars with signs "Notre Dame Basketball Team" to transport the squad to church, where a special late Mass arranged by the club u-as celebrated for the team. 
The Irish squad were guests of honor at a lun­cheon sponsored by the Denver Notre Dame Club and the Denver University Quarterback Club at noon on De c 20. Members of both the Notre Dame and Dcn\*er teams were introduced, opposing coacTies commented on their teams, and the governors of Colorado delivered a brief talk. 
After the game on Dec. 20, and on extremely short notice. Dr. Klonaghan and Gene Blish ar­ranged for air tine hostesses as dates for the Notre Dame team members at a post-game party ar­ranged for the bo>s. 
On De c 21, after the team had gone to Mass at their leisure, the club took the Irish squad on a trip to a near-by mountain ski resort, arranging for them to journey to the peak of the ski jump by the same "carrier cars" that transport the skiers. 
Finally, the Notre Dame Club of Denver brought the boj-s hack into Denver and treated them lo a 
The Akron Club Communion breakfast  Left to right around the outside of the 

man* others. table, are Ed Barch, John DettUng, Joseph &aker, Keiron J. SteeL- Frank SteeL K LEO KELLEY, former national director of the Hugh ColopT, PhU Myers, WiU BCoIoy. Bob Kolb, Bob Brooks, Paul Bertsch, M. F. .•Vlumni Assodation, is general chairman of the OTIeil, WiUiam P. Bernard, Sr., Pot Dotan, Sr-- Pat Doran, Jr^ Hmmy Coulter, BUI 
St. Joseph's Hospital Fund, which as this is written, 
OTIeiL WiUiam P. Bernard, Jr., Bob Hohman, Stack Womiak, and Steve Sitko. Around 
has already raised over a million dollars of its $1,250,000 quota for an addition to the hospital and 
the inside, left to right are Frank SteeL Sr., Claude Homing, Ted Bertsch, Jr., Ed is doing a grand job. D.\N WILLIAMS, lawjer. Raub and Murray Powers. 
The Baltimore Club alter observing Communion Sunday. Front row, left to right: Miss Molly Loughran, two Sporl boys, Judy Hochreiter, Claudia Hochreiter, Michael O'Sheo, Lynn Stroker, Vic Wojdhovski, Jr., Jack Pendergast. Second row: Mrs. Fronk­lyn Hochreiter, two Melody boys. Third row: Bill Loughran, Mrs. Ed SporL Mrs. Wil­liam Loughran, Mrs. Wojdhovski, Neal Prendergast. Fourth row: Ed Sporl, Mr. and Mrs. Lewis O'Shea, Dr. and Mrs. Boy Scholz, Gil Prendergast. Fifth row: Vic Wojd­hovski, Cy Stroker, Felix Melody. Sixth row: Henry Heintzberger, Joe CMeara, Brother Martin John, CTX., Harry Storck, Hal Williams, Bill Jacobs. Seventh row: Brother Christian, CSJX., Brother Oswald, CSJX. (Xaverian Provindal), the Bev. Francis 
X. Talbot, S.J.. president of Loyola College (main speaker). Rev. Edwin J. Schnei­
der, S.S., and Franklyn Hochreiter. 
previously-arranged steak dinner before taking them to the train. A special guest at this dinner was Mike Golden, youthful infantile paral>-sis victim who gained nation-wide publicity through his correspon­dence with JOHNNY LUJACK and who abo was flown to Los Angeles to sit on the Notre Dame bench at the Southern California game. Mike also was a guest at the pre-game luncheon. 
R.\Y DONOVAN 
Des Moines 
The year of 1947 for the Notre Dame Club of Des Moines was an outstanding one in that it brought about the re-organization and expansion of the club. JOSEPH E. WHALEN ser\cd as president while BOB TIERNAN ser\ed as vice president-treasurer, and LOUIS KURTZ as secretary-. 
During the year numerous meetings were held and a niontlity noan meeting held on the first Friday of each month. The outstanding meetings of the year were the annual Drake Relay Party, meeting for the pro football players appearing in the pro football game in Des Moines, meeting during Wes­tern Amateur Golf Tournament, Universal Notre Dams Night and Universal Communion Sunday. 
Abo during the year the club adopted a consti­tution and by-laws for the future. GEORGE PFLANZ attended the club presidents' meeting in South Bend. 
Netv officers elected to head the club in 1948 are: GEORGE J. PFLANZ, HI, '43, president; ROB­ERT TIERNAN, vice president and treasurer; and JOSEPH ZUENDEL, treasurer. 
Fort Wayne 
The club's second annual Orphans Party held Dec. 22nd consisted of a dinner for the club members at the Colonial Inn followed by short talks from EMIL SITKO, our local contribution to the Notre Dame football team; Father Faber, superintendent at St. Vincent's Orphanage, Fort Wayne; and H.AR­RV G. HOGAN. 
The club members then adjourned to the orphan^ age where we had our Santa Glaus, ED WESNER, lead the children in Christmas songs. Toys to the 

value of fl,500, all donated by local merchants, were distributed to the children. 
The entertainment consisted of a well received act by a local magician and four reels of Christ­mas and sport movies. The high light of the evening u'as the presentation by Sitko of a ball autographed by all players on the X.D. squad to the best athlete at the orphanage. 
Seventy-five club members attended, and wc re­ceived much favorable local press publicity for this activity. 
Fifty members attended Universal X.D. Com­munion Sunday Mass at the Cathedral. Breakfast was ser^'ed in the Old Fort Room of the Indiana Hotel. Guest speakers at the breakfast included Rev. Charles Girardot, pastor of St. Jude's; and HARRY 
G. HOGAN. JERRY ARNOLD, Davenport, la., city Foundation chairman, was the guest of the club at the breakfast. 
The highly successful Communion-breakfast was 

in charge of LOUIS F. NTEZER. Serving on the 
committee with him were ROBERT F. EGGEM.\N, 
JAMES M. KEEi-ER, FRANK P. McC\RTHY, 
and DONNELLY P. -McDONALD, JR. 
BERNARD N. XIEZER 

Green Bay 
After a loni; Dcnod of innctivity the Notre Dame Club of Green Bay met with their wives. listened to Notre Dame's splendid victory' over the Uni­versity of Southern California, had dinner, and then conducted a business meeting at which the follow­ing officers were elected: HAROLD L. LONDO, '24, president; WALTER HALL. '25, vice president; LEVI GENIESSE, '24, secretary treasurer. 
HAROLD L. LONDO 

Homi/fon. O. 
The Club held its first meeting in several years on Dec. 18. for the purixtse of reorganization. 
The following men were selected to serve as officers for the coming year: president, JUDGE HARRY F. WALSH. '31; secretary-treasurer, DON 
S. CISLE;. board of director, MARC FIEHRER, JERRY RYAN, WALTON WUEBBOLD. 
A committee has been appointed by the president 

to study a proposed charter and we hope to have 
our second meeting soon so that we may better 
organize and work along the lines of other clubs. 
DON CISLE 

Hiawafhaland 
On Dec. 31 the club entertained FATHER JOHN 

J. CAVANAUGH, president, and FATHER JOHN 
J. REDDINGTON at a luncheon at the House of Ludlngton in Escanaba, Mich. Father Cavanaugh and Father Reddlngton were house guests of JOHN LEMMER of this city, and it was John who gra­tnously made the arrangements for the luncheon. Inasmuch as our club president, NORAIAN BAR­THOLOMEW, of Iron Mountain, was unable to attend, I presided as toastmaster. We received quite a short notice that we would be graced ^vlth Father Cavanaugh's presence; consequently, our members from out of the city were unable to attend. HENRY and JOE LAUER^LAN of Marinette sent a telegram expressing their regrets; abo. Attorney EDWARD 
The Cincinnati Club presents a set of book ends to Father Cavanaugh, CS.C. president. Left to right are Howard Rohan, Bobert Leonard. Fother Cavanaugh, Walter Nienaber. Father Kenna, CJ5.CM director of studies* and John Cottzngham. 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 

24 
DUXDOX of Iron Mountain telephoned during the luncheon to stale that he would be unable to ''break bread" \\iih us. 
Father Cax'anaugh u-as vcr>* entertaining, as he usually is. He S|K>ke for aiiproxiuiately fifteen min­utes and then answered many questions concerning the school. The following club members were present at the luncheon: DR. DOX BOVCE, DR. DO.X LE­MIRE, JOH.X LEMMER, JOSEPH POFFENBER­GER, FR.AXCIS BOYCE, GER.\LD CLE.\RY, MATT ERICKSOX. ROBERT SCHMIT and FRAXCIS GUST.\FSOX. .-Uso, three students Jiow attending Xoire Dame were present: KERWIX B.ARTEL. WILLIAM XOLDE.V and JACK GL.\V­
IX. PAUL D. ST.ACK, a student whose schooling was interrupted by the jer\"icc and who just re­turned from Japan, was present-
Wc expect to have our next meeting on Universal X'otrc Dame nieht. ^ ROBERT E. LEMIRE 
Georgia 
Things are stirring down tliis way. Feeling tht' need for an organization such as a Xotrc Dame Club ol Georgia, and spurred on by .AL ABRAMS, 
'21, and MIKE WEIDL, '34, four of us sat down Members of the Connecticut Vcdley Club gather around the breakfast table fol­
to lunch Dec. 11, at the Standard Club in Atlanta. lowing observance of Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday. Seated, second Between the marinated herring and cliicken a la 
from right is Bill Reid, breakfast choirman; Floyd Bichards, club president, third from 
king, an organization had been formed, and by the time we had tucked away the pumpkin pie, another 
right; and Frank DuUy, principal speaker, of Holy Cross, fourth from right X'otrc Dame Club had been born. 
Attending the luncheon with A\ and Mike were 2 at the Butler Ficldhouse in Indianapolis. Notre 
CLEM McGOWAX, '38, and LARRY BEXEDICT, Dame, Butler, Indiana and Purdue provided the Kansas City'39. Plans were made to contact all Xotre Dame fireworks for both nights. men in Georgia and notify theni of the club's 
On Nfonday, Jan, 19, ED (MOOSE) KR.AUSE President TOM REARDON and his associates founding journe>ed down to Indianapolis and showed the pic­desen-e plenty of credit for the excellent hospitality LAWREXCE D. BEXEDICT tures of the N'otre Dame-Southern California foot­afforded the Notre Dame basketball team while ball game before a joint gathering of the Indianap­the Irish cagers were in Kansas City where they 
Indianapolis 
olis Club and the Knichts of Columbus in the K. of made their headquarters for the game with the 
C. auditorium. University of Kansas on Dec. 23. 
The Most Rev. Paul C. Schulte, Archbishop of 

JOHX^ CAREY is handling retreat reser\*ations 
Indianapolis, ser\'ed as the principal speaker on Uni­On Dec. 22, the day of arrix-al in Kansas City, 
for members at the new Alvcrna Retreat House 
versal Communion Sunday for the club. Communion the club sponsored a luncheon for the Irisli quin­
recently opened by the Franciscan Fathers on Spring 
was received in the Blessed Sacrament Chapel of the tet, with numerous sports luminaries and members 
Mill Road. Because the facilities are limited to 
Sts. Peter and Paid Catliedral prior to the break­of the press and radio as guests. fast in the Green Room of the Indianapolis .Ath­
forty persons per week end, it is anticipated that 
Principal speakers at the luncheon *vere Notre 
the dub will need three or more retreat periods. 
letic Club. General Chairman CHARLES MASOX Dame coach ED KRAUSE and Kansas mastermind 
.Any club in vicinity 
did a mar\'eIous job and his efforts were rewarded  member residing the of In­Forrest (Phog) .^llen. Among those pnrscnt was
dianapolis wishing to attend one of these retreats 
by one hundred and seven members attending. 
Joe Kuhel, former Chicago White Sox .Irst naseman 
should contact John at 842 Consolidated BIdg., 
Short speeches were given bv prexv PAT FISHER, and new manager of the Washington .senators. 
Indianapolis 4. Raymond R. Noll, pastor of the Cathedral. NICK CONNOR Rev. GEORGE DOL.\X, C.S.C., and the Rt. Rev. 
The dub had arranged for the Xotre Lame team to hold a practice session the alicrnoon of .An overflow crowd was in attendance at the Christ­
Iron Range 
De c 22 in one of the Notre Dame-mindcd parochial mas Candlelight Ball held on Dec. 26 at the Aetha-high schools and the cooperation even extended 
neum. Chairman BILL SHIXE and JOHX WELCH At a meeting of the Iron Range Club on Dec. so far as to provide a team equipped with Kansas had the Christmas arrangements down to a fine point formatioru for the Irish to scrimmage against. 
30 at the St. James Hotel in Ironwood, the fol­
with everything from Larry Dorrell and his orchestra 
lowing officers were elected; After the boys had been treated to free posses to candy table decorations. 
President, ROBERT E. 0'C.\LLAGHAN, ex "45; to the movies on the night of Dec. 22, llie club 
JOHX O-CO.X.XOR saw to it that the local vice president, EUGENE R. ZINN, '39; secretary-transported the team by bus from Kansas City to N^otre Dame Club was well represented at tlie first treasurer, GORDON BETHU.NE, '42. Lawrence for the game and back, and the trip Big-4 basketball tournament held on Jan. 1 and THEODORE A. NOLAN was climaxed by a post-game partv atriiigcd bv 
Dr. D. .M. NIGRO. 
The Christmas Dance was held Dec. 27 at the .Ambassador Hotel. The students were guests of the club. Two footballs autographed by the 1947 national 
THE STARS PICTUBEO 

The Los Angeles Club is offering a set of 12 pictures of movie and radio stars snapped at the club's rally before the Southern Cal gome. Among the personalities who op­peored on the rally program ond are included in the pictures, were Pot 03rien. Danny Thomos. Mor­goret Whiting. Hmmy Duronte. Wal-­ter O'Keefe. and Lou Costello. of Abbott ond Costello. Some of the photographs oppeor in this issue of the ALDMNUS. 
Price of the set of 12 pictures is $1.50. To order the set write to the 
Emil Sitko. Hghling Irish hcdiback, presents a footboU to SL Vincent's Oiphanage Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles. at the Christmas partf the Fort Wayne Club held {or the orphans. Adults in the pic­Room 212. 704 South Spring St. Los ture, left to right, ore Father Faber, superintendent oi the orphanage: Emil Sitko. Angeles 14. Calif. Edward Wesner. Judge John N. Logan. Fred D. Schoppmon. and Paul De Wold. 
championship football team were \von by JERRY oMITH and JOSEPH STEWART. 
Oklahoma Cify 
CLUB LUNCHEONS 

Plans for the Cana Conference to be held at St. John's in earh" Fcburary are nearly complete. AKBON — Kraker's Old Heidelberg . Club members received Coimnimion in a body at 
the 9:30 Mass at St. Francis Church on De c 7 as M. J. VAN DYKE 
Bestaurant—every first Tuesday 

they observed Universal Notre Dame Communion CENTBAL OHIO (Columbus)—Uni­Sunday. Breakfast followed at the Biltmore Hotel. Michigan City, Indiana versity Club—every Monday CHICAGO—Deutsch's Bestaurant 28 Panama
The club is now formally organized, the members having ratified the constitution and by-Iau-s last 
N. Dearborn SL—every third Wed­

September. At our October meeting, we were for­nesday. At a meeting De c 8, club members elected the tunate in having BILL DOOLEY of the Alumni following officers: GUILLERMO PATTERSON, "12, 
DES MOINES—Savoy Hotel—every 

OfHce with us; Bill gave us a lot of interesting and president emeritus; WILLIAltl J. SHERIDAN, '38, 
first Friday 

helpful information, relating particularly to the presirent; LORENZO ROMAGOSA, '45, treasurer; general history' of the Alumni Association, its plans INDIANAPOUS — Caary CoHage — LEO KRZIZA, '40, English secretary; and JOSE for future development, the suggested program of every Tuesday CARDENAS, '46, Spanish secretary. organization and activities of local alumni clubs, and The meeting was held at the home of Jose Car­
MILWAUKEE — Maryland Hotel — 

the purposes of and the needs behind the current denas. A buffet supper followed the meeting. Xolrc Dame Foundation. every Thursday 
Our November meeting was devoted to plans for ST. LOUIS — Victorian Qub, 3719 our first Christmas party, a dinner-dance which was Washington Ave. — every Monday ftfiode Island and Dec. 27 at the Beverly Shores Hotel. The party, (12:15) which necessarily had to be restricted to club mem­S. E. Massachusetfs
VIBGINIA (Bichmond)—Ewarts Cafe­

bership because of the limited facilities at the hotel, was a large success, due in great part to the hard teria—every second Wednesday The club observed Universal Communion Sunday work of General Chairman FRANNY FEDDER. on De c 7 by attending Mass and receiving the 
A delegation from the dub attended the football OTHER CLUB MEETINGS Blessed Sacrament at the Catheilral of S.S. Peter and testimonial banquet at school early in January, and CINCINNAn — Hotel Alms — every Paul. IVovIdence. The Mass was read by Rt. Rev. reported having a swell evening's entertainment. 
Francis P. Keough, arcfabishop-clect of Baltimore. 
second Tuesday (6:30 p. m.) 

After Kfass the members, along with alumni groups 
FLOBIDA (tComi)-Downtown Club 

from Boston College, Holy Cross, Klanhattan, Cath­Naugatuck Valley ^ver y first Monday (5:30 p. m.) olic University, Georgetown, Fordham and Mt. St. NEW lEBSEY—Essex House, Newark Mary, had breakfast at the Narragansett Hotel. The The club will sponsor an Easter dance on March combined groups were addressed by Congressman 
—every first Monday 

29 In the Copper Room of the Hotel Elton in John £. Fogarty, who related some of his experiences Waterbur>'j Conn. Dress for the dance will be semi-NEW YOBK—Waldorf-Astoria Hotel on his tour of Europe with a congressional com­formal. —every second Wednesday (8 pjB.) mittee. 
During the business session which followed, plans were made for the annual Christmas dance oa De c 
New York Cify 
29 and for the annual election of officers In Feb­
manage the business affairs of the Club. COLMAN 
ruary. At the annual meeting the following members were  '32, u'as 
O'SHAUGHNESSY, appointed executive elected officers for the coming year: JOHN A. 
secretary and he will carry on the business activities On De c 29 club members, present students home of the club from his office at 17 E. 42nd St. for the holidays, friends and guests gathered at the HOYT, JR., former secretar>- and vice president of Pawtucket Golf Club for the annual Christmas dance the club and a member of the Board of Governors In addition to the officers, the Board of Governors in spite of treacherous travelling conditions earned for the last ten years, president. Jack is associated will consist of the following: TED BERKERY, by one of the worst snowstorms in years. Special with the law firm of Gillespie & O'Connor. JOHN BALFE, TOM WALKER, JIM SHEILS, entertainment was provided by IVesident JOHN 
AL PERRINE, JERRY BROWN, TIERNEY 
^L^RTIN V. CALL.AGY and EDWARD BECK-MCLAUGHLI N and Treasurer LEO McALOON. 
O'ROURKE, JACK LAVELLE, BOB HAMILTON, 
M.\N were reelected vice presidents. Martin is a At the end of the evening all In attendance were 
JORDAN H.\RGROVE and JIM CAWLEY. 
former domestic relations judge and is now general looking forward to the June dance. counsel to the Legal Aid Society of New York. RUSSEL L. HUNT 
FRANK WALKER has gotten the local drive in Ed is editor of the JVeekly Underwriter. 
connection with the Notre Dame Foundation under way. and at a recent meetinc; with members of the 
WALTER A. DONNELLY was elected secretary. club and TED BERKERY, the state chairman, an Rocftesfer. N. Y. Walter is an attorney with offices at 60 E. 42nd St. active committee w*a5 appointed. J.\MES KIRBY was elected treasurer. Jim for many 
The report from the chairman of the Army game The club started the season with a spiritual bang 
years was a special agent in the Federal Bureau of trip has come in .ind the iii^res and report indicate with our annual Communion-Breakfast at Old St. 
Investigation, and is now associated with one of the that it was the most successful trip and financial Mary's Church on De c 7. We all had a deep feeling leading oil companies. FRANK REILLY and C.AS­
venture ever undertaken by the club. We in the of self satisfaction and group actl\ity when our large IMER VANCE were reelected assistant secretary club to bigger and better are looking forward trips turnout was mentioned from the altar; seventy-eight and assistant treasurer, respectively. 
and to big things from COLMAN O'SHAUGHNES­attended Church and sixty-two were at the break­The Board of Governors passed a resolution call­SY, new executive secretary* of the club. fast at the Hotel Sheraton. The cost of same was 
ing for the appointment of an executive secretary to JOHN A. HOYT, JR. absorbed by the Club In view of the increased ac­tivity, interest, and cooperation by the members. Father Leslie Whalin, an ex-Afarine chaplain, spoke. The old chill, reminiscent of the playing of the '^Victory Afarch" at a football rally, was in evidence when the church chimes pealed the same music after Afass. 
A get-together party for the students and alumni was held on Dec. 23 at the Standard Rathskeller. A buffet supper was ser^'ed along with refreshments, and door prizes were donated by alumni for drawing purposes. Ninety-two were present o\-er the six-hour spread of the homecoming party. The annual Christmas formal dance was held at the Starlight Roof on De c 27 and we witnessed the best turn­out In years. Athletic competition was limited to a bowling match between the alumni and students; the alumni won two games to one In a very close contest. 
Flans for the Immediate future include an ex­cursion trip to Buffalo to watch our N.D. basketball team play Canislus, and, we hope, a combined regu­lar and special Foundation meeting. 
- Spotlight Alumnus in Rochester, notably in the sports field, is HARRY WRIGHT, coach of St. Thomas Aquinas Institute football team. Since It is the only Cathi^c boys high school In Rochester, most of the N.D. alumni are also alumni of Aquinas. 
The Kansas City Club held a dinner Oct. 29 in connection with the Scholarship Meeting such foes as C.B.A. of Syracuse, St. Mary's of Niagara Falls, St. Joe's of Buffalo, Cathedral I ^
Fund. At the head table are, left to right, lames Groham, chairman: Mrs. Thomas 
of Erie, fo.. Catholic Central of Detroit, Canishis 
Beordon; Bev. George King; Thomas Beardon, president: Bev. Bobert Sweeney. 
Vnp of Buffalo, and Boys Town of Nebraska, Harry'sC.S.CJ Joseph Stewart, toastmaster: Joseph McGlynn, East SL Louis, IXL: and Bev. team lost but one game and that to St. James of 
T. E. Biter, Chaploin. Pbrt Arthur, Texas, by a score of 38 to 32. The at­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
tendance figures were almost as pleasing . . . 
132,000 for eight games. H. \V. also coaches the basketball and baseball teams. 
DICK MILLER 
Saginaw Valley 
The club had a very successful smoker during ihc Notre Dame-Southern California game Dec. 6. About 40 were present. 
On the following morning, about 20 members re­ceived Communion at FATHER FITZPATRICK*S church—St. Mathew's, located about midway between Saginaw and Bay City. A breakfast was ser\ed by some of the women of the parish. 
We arc now planning to attend the Michigan 
State-Xotrc Dame basketball game and expect to 
run an excureion trom Saginaw Valley for the 
Michigan State-Notre Dame football game next fall, 
JOSEPH C. GODDEYNE 
St. Louis 
Our annual Student-Alumni Christmas Party turn­ed out to be a gala affair with an excellent turn­out on the pirt of the bovs from school. 
Ever>*tliing was just getting back to normal when up pops one of the best basketball contests in me country*, Notre Dame against St. Louis University. A committee swung into action and completed phns in short order. The team \v^s met at the sta­tion Friday night, Jan. 16. Saturday morning FiOVNK TULLY, driving a big school bus, called for the team and drove tliem out to Immaculata Parish in Clayton, Mo., where Bishop Cody said Mass. After ilass the prettiest girls in town served breakfast at the parish to the bo>-s, and, as MOOSE KRAUSE said, " I have the fastest team in the counir>'—yes sir, these bov-s can eat faster than any team I ever saw." 
Saturday afternoon a lunclieon was given in honor of Rev. JOHN H. MURPHY, C.S.G., vice president of Notre Dame, who accompanied the team in order to make the Knute Rockne presentation be­tween halves of the game. The Notre Dame team, the coaches of both teams, members of the press and radio, and many alumni attended this luncheon. 
The game left absolutely nothing to be desired, except three points tacked on to the Notre Dame score. The Fighting Irish really put on a show, leaving an overflow crowd in a near state of col­lapse. After the game a reception was held tor both basketball teams, and tlie St. Louis U. High ioot­ball team, winners of the Knute Rockne trophy. The party was open to all club members and their guests . • . highspot of the evening was the ap­pearance of Joe £. Brown, comedian, who was in St. Louts appearing in the stage comedy, "Harvey." ED GRIESEDIECK and Mar>' won the attendance prize .. . an autographed basketball. Father Hallo-ran, president of St. Louis U., and Father Murphy spoke. 
Sunday morning the team was picked up by dif­ferent alumni mcmbei3, taken to church, break­fasted, and put aboard the train heading for South Bend. The club really enjoyed having the boj-s -nd we hoi>e that wc will be given the same opportunrry for many ye-irs to come. 
FRANK TULLY and JLM WARDELL were the chairmen for the entire week end, and did an ex­cellent job for coordination and programming ever>' event. 
JIM HILL, '36, worked like a Trojan in handling the entire proceedings for the Knute Rockne Mem­orial Trophy Award. He arranged the voting with the coaches, sportswrltcrs, and radio men, took complete charge of the selected team, publicized the whole affair, and introduced Rev. JOHN MUR­PHY, C.S.G., to the overflow audience at the St. Louis Kiel Auditorium. He also had certificates printed, one being awarded to each mcmler of the winning high scliool football team. 
' ful manner compared the tribulations of Our Lady with those. of the service men of the last World War. JACK SCOTT, recently awarded the Silvrr Star by the Marine Corps, also gave an excellent presentation of what everyone should be doing in his own personal way to stop another world con­flict. His diagnosis of the lethargy and apathetic state of mind of the country as a whole vt*as well stated. All v%'ere determined, after hearing Jack, that by prayer and personal action they would do their share In the coming days. 
Breakfast v%-as attended by many of the faithful club members such as FRANK "RANGY" MILES and his son JACK, PAUL BUTLER, CHUCK MCNEIL L and RAY HERRLY. Many others an to be thanked for their attendance. JACK MOULDER was f^airman of the event, assisted as usual in fine fashion by the Alumni Department and JIM MEEH.\N. 
J.\CK >fOULDER 
Syracuse 
Families of club members joined in observance of Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday on Dec. 7 in the Cathedral of the Immaculate Con­ception. Breakfast was in the Onodaga Hotel. 
Nancy Parsons, tlie guest of WILLIA\£ DWYEK, was chosen the queen of the club's annual dance at the Hotel Syracuse on Jan. 3. Several hundred persons attended the dance. In charge of the dance were JAMES NL\NNING, chairman, EDWARD J. DWTER, JAMES FARRELL, and PHIL KELLEY. 
Toledo 
The club received Communion in a body Dec 7 at the Qeen of the Holy Ros.iry Cathedral at 3:30 Alass. A section of the church was reserved for club members and guests. At breakfast in the parish hall after Mass, Rev. Frauds P. McCartin, O.M.L, delivered the principal address, and Msgr. A. J. Dean was the club's guest. 
The annual Christmas dance was held in the Crystal Room of the Commodore Perry Hotel on De c 26. Students, alumni and friends danced to the music of Jimmy Rohr and his orchestra at the cabaret style dance. The dance committee was made up of DON MARTIN, BARNEY ENGLISH, JIM MALONE, KARL SYRING, and BOB WELLY. 
Tri-Cifies 
Thirty members observed Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday by receiving Communion in a body at the eight o'clock Mass in St. Joseph's Church, Rock Island. 
Breakfast was served at the Fort Armstrong following Mass. .AL ERSKINE, club president, spiike on the Foundation, while FRED FLYNN, professor of philosophy at St. Ambrose College, discussed the Graduate School at Notre Dame. fl 
STEVE MILLER, chairman of the comnuttee which arranged the program, v\'as assisted by AN­THONY CORY.V, RALPH EHR ?nd JACK RICK­EY, IL 
Tucson 
The club hopes that it soon will be able to an­nounce 100 per cent participation In this year's Foundation fund. Thus it may be one of the first clubs to show full participation so early in the year. 
P.\UL DUFAUD 
Twin Cities 
On Dec. 6, the club gathered at Glucck's Brewery' and was very pleased to listen to the Irish knock off use. 
Dec. 7, we had a very fine turnout for national Communion Sunday, with Afass being held at St. Thomas and breakfast later at the Town and Coun­try Club. 

On Dec. 27, we held our .Annual Notre Dame Ball, at the St. Paul Hotel, and had the largest turnout in history. Many of the present students, a lot of alumni, and friends of Notre Dame were present and enjoyed the music of Harry Given and his band. We hope to be sending the University a contribution front the receipts of it. 
ROBERT M. ROGERS |V 

Virginia 
More than 100 persons were present at the first general meeting of the recendy organized Notre Dame Club of Virginia held Jan. 14, at the Hotel Richmond, Richmond. Alumni and former students from all sections of the state were In attendance. 
Dr. RUSS RILEY, president and organizer of the club, presided over the meeting which had for its principal speaker FORREST COTTON. 
. Forrest's tales of his football da>s at N.D. during the "golden period" of 1920-24 were a real treat. To round out the football part of the program there was the movie "N.D. Football Highlights of 1947," with WALT HAGEN doing double duty as projectionist and ace sports commentator. Walt also showed the campus movie in sound and color. 
Monthly luncheon meetings have been scheduled for local alumni on Feb. 11, and Afar. ID, with the next state-wide meeting planned for April 14. 
The officers of the club are Dr. CHARLES R. RILEY, president; PAUL M. MORRISON, vice president; ROBERT A. SHEPPARD, secretary-
St. Joseph Valley Tfae Memphis Club Communioxi obserronce. Front row, left to right, J, E, Fran­shere, Gcdvin Hudson, Msgr. Merlin F. Kearney, and P. A. McPhillips. Second row, The dub held its 10th annual Universal Com­T. F. Dohogne, Frank Howland, Thomas Lilly, Walter Fransioli, Michael J. McCormack, 
munion Sunday Breakfast In the Notre Dame Fac­

Laurence Thompson, Jr. Third row, Louis Borsatti, Ausin K. HaU, Thomas F. Clark, 
ulty Dining Hall, following Mass. Father JOSEPH 

Larin McNicholas, Felix Saino, Judge Somuel O. Bates. Donnell J. McCormack, Frank 
BARRY, director of student activities at the Univcr­sit}*, gave the main address, and in a very delight-Fransioli. Walter Fransioli, Sr. and T. Jezry Foley. m 
The New York Club Communion breakfast. Left to right on the dais, Thomas F. Lantry, co-chairman; Thomas J. Walker; Frank C. Walker; Father Cavanaugh. guest speaker; Commissioner James H. Sheils. co-chairman and toastmoster; Tiemey A. O'Rourke, club president; Father Louis Eelley, C.S.C., Assistant Superior General of Holy Cross Order and club chaplain; and Bob Hamilton. 
treasurer; and CH.-\RLES K. HUTCHLN'S, JR., and FRANK J. STUMPF, trustees. 
The club's first activity, fittingly enough, was par­ticipation in Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday on Dec. 7 at St. Benedict's Church. The Nfass was offered for two Virginia alumni who gave their lives in World War II, Lts. R.\LPH WING­FIELD and EUGENE GOLDEN. 
R. A. SHEPP.VRD 

Washington, D. C. 
The club held its annual Universal Communion Sunday Breakfast at Holy Cross College on Dec. 7. A record crowd o£ 69 attended. GEORGE HAITH­COCK, who ser\ed as chairman of this function, is to be commended for his hard work and excellent planning. 
The second alTair in December was the annual Christmas Dance at the Carlton Hotel on Dec. 28. This dance, which was a huge success, was quarter­backed bv V.AL DEALE. Serving on his committee were BILL SYRLVG, JOH.V DUMPERT, JLM NEU, LARRY MOORE, JOHX O'HANLON, WALTER SHORT and JIAf O'LAUGHLIN. 
The club welcomes Into its fold as new members GEORGE AITKEX, FR.-\NK D. NOEL and P.AUL SWEENEY. 
The dub now has its own phone which will be listed in the new telephone directory under the title "Notre Dame University Club." The club phone number is REpublic 0613. 
HAROLD V. BOISVERT 

West Virginia 
Two recent activities have high-lighted the fall business and pleasure of the club. 
On Dec. 6, the club met in the Knights of Colum­bus home to listen to the Notre Dame-Southern California game collectively. And a joyous afternoon it was! The club welcomed HENRY ADAM, '44, a chemical engineer who recently came to town to work for du Pont at Belle, W. Va. Others in at­tendance were BILL BUDD, '47; BILL KENNEY, '34; DON LEIS; BILL MINGES, '42; PAT MOR­RISON; JOE NEENAN, '40; MIKE O'CONNOR, '39; BILL REISHMAN; PAU SCH.\UB; FRANK SHEETS, '41; BOB SHOEMAKER, '40; W.ALT TOUSSAINT, '28, and JOHN WELCH, 40. 
The game here in the East was heard through the dinner hour. JOE NEENAN, president, took care of any pangs of hunger in the crowd by ar­ranging for snacks. 
The following day. Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday, the membership attended Mass at Sacred Heart Church and afterward met for break­fast at the Hotel Daniel Boone. As is its custom, the club invited members' wives and this year in\'ited the parents of members and of present stu­dents. This helped swell the total attendance to 42. 
Following the breakfast Joe Xeenan discussed his recent visit to the campus as a part of the Club Presidents' Council. JUDGE HUDSON, state gover­nor of the Foundation Program, told of the work which has been going on in West Virginia. 
The last issue of the ALUMNUS reported the addi­tion of JOHN CACKLEY, '37, to the University as a member of the staff of the Foundation Pro­gram. The West Virginia Club lost a \'alued member and its secretary' for the present year. Good luck, John! 
BILL MINGES 

Williamsporft Pa. 
A Notre Dame Alumni Club has been organized in the Williamsport, Pa., area. Eight of us got to­gether early in December to toss the thing around, and we came up with plans and a slate of officers. 
Our officers are FRANK C. H.AYES, WilUams­port, president; LEO C. BARLAND, Williamsport, treasurer; WILLIAM R. DOWNS, Jersey Shore, nee president, and JOHN B. WILLMANN, Wil­liamsport, secretary. Our membeiship potential is atwut 23 in this area. 
Just what steps we should take in regard to the Notre Dame Foundation are somewhat intangible, but we want to get organized. We know there are Notre Dame friends in this district. 
JOHN B. WILLMANN 

Youngstown 
Most Rev. James A. McFadden, bishop of Youngs­town, and his chancellor. Very Rev. Alfred J. Hein­rich, and the assistant chancellor. Rev. Andrew Pro­koD. were sticci;«l quests of the Notre D»me Club of Youngstown at its Communion breakfast Sunday, Dec. 7, at the Tod Hotel. 
REV. THOMAS BRENNAN, C.S.C., professor of philosophy, came from Notre Dame to address the breakfast. He paid tribute to the men who died in World War II, saying GEORGE MURPHY and JACK. CHEVIGN*Y. when they gave their lives at Okinawa and Iwo Jima, were fulfilling the spirit of Notre Dame just as they had when they wore its football uniforms 
Bishop McFadden spoke briefly on Notre Dame, saying he bad alwa>-s found "the Idndness of Christ" in any deaUngs with Notre Dame and its priests. Rev. Norman Kellcy, pastor of St. Rose Church, Girard, spiritual director of the club, gave the in­vocation. CHARLES B. CUSHWA, JR., was toast­master. President CLARENCE T. (PETE) SHEE­HAN spoke briefly, and RICHARD A. RILEY pre­sented Fiither Brennan. Rev. James Malone, assistant pastor of the Cathedral, celebrated the high ^^iss for Notre Dame men of the Youngstown district who died in scr\'icc. 
Twenty-five club members attended the breakfast, after receiving Communion at St. Columba Cathe­dral. 
Se\-eral members came from out of town, includ­ing DR. JIM BIGGLXS of Sharpsville, Pa., LEE GARVEY and ED MADDEN of Sharon, Pa., PAUL GUARNIERI of Warren, VINCENT LaVELLE of Leetonia, ANTHONY F. DE.AN of Struthers,. JOE SHEA of Lorain, and AL\RTY SHE.^ of Pittsburgh. 
Youngstowners present included LOUIS COLLER­AN. BILL DUNLEVY, PAUL FLEMING, FRANK HOPKINS, TOMMY KERRIGAN, DICK NHLLER, GABE and JOHN MORAN, PAUL KANE, P.\UL MOONEY and GERALD WOLF. 
CHUCK BUTLER, former Notre Dame basket­ball captain, who is now a member of the Youngs­town team in the All-.'\merican Basketball League, and PAUL KROEGER, formerly of South Bend, are newcomers to Youngstown who were present. 
CHARLES B. CUSHWA, JR., has been appoint-ted city Foundation chairman but has not yet named the committee. A former president of the club, he is now a member of the club's board of trustees. 
The basketball team at St Louia. where the dob pcovided transportation and entertainment for the Fighting bish. Left to right front row: Tom Johnson, John Loftaa. Hm Stevenson. Father Murphy, Bishop Cody, Urn O'HaUaran and John Goonen. Left to right rear rtiw: imidentified priest Leo Bamhont Kerin O'Sheo, Paul Gordon, Frank Kaufmann, John Foley, John Ifiller, Coach Ed Kranse, Pnblicitimon Hoy Dono­van, and unidentiiied priest Trainer Hugh Bums and Players Dick Kluck also as­sisted at the Mass but were absent when the picture was taken. 
» »

THE ALUMNI » » 
Engagements 
Miss Rita Elaine Sorrcntino and A. iL\RC ZOILO, '44. Miss Dolores Garis and JOHN PRESTWICH, '47. Miss Maragaret Therese Quinlan and JAMES A. McELROY, '43. Miss Rosemarv Ann Sulli\-an and FRANK A. BRADY, Jr., '47. Miss Madeleine Francis Beatty and JOSEPH A.. BITTNER, '35. Miss Kathleen Patricia CoIIigan and JOHN F. MOLLOY, Jr., ex '43. ifiss Harriet Gooley and EDW.ARD BURKE, '40. Miss Clair McNallv and FR.ANK CASHIER, e.x '33. Miss Gloria Schulte and JOHN W. McKENNA,. '44. Miss Florence McCarthy and JAMES R. RET­TER. '45. Miss Margaret Elizabeth Worthington and ED­WARD J. SULLIVAN, '42. Miss Marie Elizabeth Mulvcy and WILLLAM G. WARD, ex "39. Miss Irena Barbara Witanou'ska and Dr. PAUL 
M. WALCZAK, ex '45. 
Miss Martha Daly and ANTHONY S. MILEW­SKI, Jr., ex '45. 
Miss Harriet Anne Robb and HUGH K. O'DON­NELL. '4«. 
Miss Ilene Welber and MARVIN L. TOMBER, '46. 
Miss Joanne Kopsa and JAMES J. B.AUER, ex '45. 
Born fo 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH W. L.AUBER, '29, a son, John Joseph, Jan. 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. J. ANDRES, '43, a daughter, Patricia, Nov. 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN P. GORMAN, '34, a daugh­ter, Mary Louise, Sept. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD D. \WLLEMIN, '42, a son. Alark, Jan. 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD HEISER, '43, a daugh­ter, Mary Rita, De c 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES RICE, '42, a daughter, Mary Kathleen, De c 18. 
Dr. and Mrs. THO.MAS MARIZA.N, a son, Mi­chael, July, 1947. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH H. HARRINGTON, '39, a son, Martin, Sept. 7, 1946. 
ilr. and Mrs. WILLIAM J. SHERIDAN, '34, a daughter, Kathleen, Dec. 8, 1946. 
Dr. and Mrs. F. J. VURPILL.AT, '20, a daughter, Dec 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. W. L. RADDATZ, '33, a son. In December. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM O'CO.NNOR, '44, a son, William Bernard, Jr., Nov. 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM B. MIDDENDORF, '43, a son, William Bernard, Jr., Nov. 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. TREACY, '43, a daugh­ter, Barbara Jill, Dec. 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. B. K. WI.VGERTNER, '26, a son, Michael Kernan, Dec. 7­
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT G. SANFORD, '40, a daughter, Pamela Mary, July 23, 1947. 
Mr. and Mrs. B. P. WOCJIK,, '42, a son, Ber­nard Paul, Jr., Nov. 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. FISHER, '34, a wn, Terence Michael, Nov. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN .ANTERS, '28, a son, last October. 
Dr. and -Mrs. JOHN F. HELMER, '38, a ton, John Dennis, June 11, 1947. 
Mr. and -Mrs. BERNARD F. HISS, '40, a son, Donald Francis, Jan. 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH C. SPOHR, Jr., '42, a daughter, Claudia Christine, Dec 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN .N. CACKLEY, Jr., '37, a daughter, Anne, Jan 21. 
.Mr. and -Mrs. FRANK KELLY, '28, a son, Rob­ert Joseph, Dec. 29. 
Dr. and Mrs. JOSEPH C. CLIFFORD, '38, a daughter, in Dec. 
-Mr. and Mrs. PAUL E. BOEH.M, '33, a daughter, Jan. 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLL\M F. WALSH, Jr., '43, a daughter, Ruth Bronsfield, Dec. 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. VINCENT H.ARTNETT, '37, a daughter, Dec. 12. 
Mr. and -Mrs. JOHN J. GRIFFIN, Jr., '39, a daughter, Kathleen Gill, Dec. 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIA.M J. KENNEV, '34, a daughter, Catherine Jane, Dec. 27. 
-Mr. and -Mrs. JOHN M. CURRAN, Jr., '40, a daughter, Aug. 6, 1947. 
Mrs. FRANK A. REPPENHAGEN, wife of Frank, '39, a daughter, Marjorie Ann, Jan. 14. [Frank had died on De c 12.] 
-Mr. and -Mrs. JOH.N M. WELCH, '40, a daugh­ter, Mary Harrington, March 31, 1947. 
Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL J. O'CONNOR, '39, a daughter, Mary Patricia, Sept. 25, 1947. 
Marriages 
Miss Geraldine Lockwood and RAYMOND J. ZANDO, '47, South Bend, Jan. 10. 
-Miss Jane Gulp and JOH.\ S. AGLER, ex '49, South Bend, Dec. 20. 
Miss Esther Ann Soleta and Ens. ROBERT J. WADDICK, ex '47, South Bend, De c 27. 
Miss Man- Louise Pfaff and JOHN M. WOLF, '40, South Bend, De c 20. 
Miss Lorraine Hyde and EDWARD A. HUSTON, '40, Conners\'ille, Ind., De c 29. 
Miss Eulalia Jane Borkou-ski and COY McGEE, '49, South Bend, De c 30. 
.Miss Elinor Rita Fair and JAMES .M. McMUL-LEN, '36, Miami, in December. 
.Miss Frances Horner and WILLUM W. WICKS, '47, .Miln-aukee, Nov. 29. 
Miss Helen Bernice Edu-ards and PAUL M. MORRISON, '40, Gaines«lle, Fla., Nov. 4. CHARLES M. MORRISO.V, '39, was best man and THO.MAS A. MORRISON, '42, an usher. 
Miss Mary Emelyn Clark and ALFRED H. RO­HOL, '36, Eranston, III., Jan. 25. 
Miss Beatrice Butler MacGuire and Capt. ED­WARD F.ALLON, Jr., New York, Jan. 24. 
Miss Evelyn Kctchmark and JULIAN VANDE WALLE. ex '48. L-ns Curces. N. M.. Jan. 30. 
Miss Dorothy Marie Linning and BERNIE CRIM­MINS, '42, Valley Station, Ky., Feb. 7. 
Miss Dorothy Wredc and ROBERT J. KELLY, ex '47, Chicago, Jan 24. 
Miss Constance Louise Mills and DANIEL F. CASEY, '44. East Orange, N. J.. Jan. 11. ROBERT 
B. CASEY, '47, brother of the groom, was best man. 
Miss Edith Buchanan and JOSEPH E. CHRIS­TEN, '44, Pittsburgh, Pa., Nov. 29. 
Miss Mary Ellen Swearingen and J. I<ICHARD SAVERS, '45, Charleston, W. Va., Nov. 23. BILL SWEARINGEN, '48, was groomsman. MICHAEL HART, '48, and BILL TORMEY, '50. vcre also in the wedding party. 
DeaMs 
DANIEL F. FOLEY» '23, died of a heart ailment in St. John's Hospital, Leavenworth. Kansas, on Jan. 1. He was 47 years old. 
Dan was born in Manchester, X. H.. in 1900, moving to Leavenworth with his family in 1906. At Notre Dame he won monograms in baseball in 1921, '22, and '23. After graduating magna cum laude he played professional baseball for three years Hith the Kansas City Blues and the Detroit Tigers. 
Dan \i?LS intensely active in Xotre Dame alumni work, having been an alumni district governor and a director of the Eastern Kansas Club. At the time of his death he was president of the club. 
He was also a member of the American Legion, the Catholic War Veterans, Knights of Columbus, and was a charter member of the Three and Two Club of Kansas City, a group of former professional baseball players. 
After leaving Notre Dame he attended the Fin­lay Engineering College, receiWng a degree in air contlitioning work. In 1925 he joined the American Radiator Co. in Kansas City, and in 1926 became associated with the W. B. Young Supply Co. of Kansas Citj*, where he became a director and as­sistant general manager. 
In 1939 he was appointed general purchasing ' agent of the U. S. Supply Co. During the war he %vas registered on the national roster of scientific and specialized personnel with the War Manpower Commission. In 1944 he became treasurer of the Army Cooperative Fire Association of Fort Leaven­worth, a position which he held at the time of his death. 
For the past 28 years he had attended at least one 
N.D. football game each season. The only sur\'ivor is a sister, Sfary. 
FRANK A. BOLTON, '94, uas fatally stricken in bis law office in Newark, Ohio, on Dec. 31 at the age of 74. 
A public figure for almost 45 years, he was New­ark's first safety director, holding office from 1903 to 1906, served as city attorney from 1906 to 1912, and as city judge from 1920 to 1924 and from 1932 to 1943. 
As special counsel in a number of court cases on behalf of the city, he represented Newark in liti­gations which netted the city more than $400,000. On two occasions he argued city cases before the \J. S. Supreme Court, winning both decisions before the nation's highest tribunal. 
Judge Bolton prepared the Munincipal Court \cl which the Ohio legislature passed to establish New­ark*5 court system. It has been descrribed as the best municipal court 5>'stcm ever passed by the Icgisla-
The Newark Dress eulogized him as ''serious mind-' ed. but affable to everyone who knew him, fair and jtist in his decisions as a judge. He had the honor of receiving nearly as many votes in his last elec­tion as judge as the combined votes of the Republi­can and Democratic candidates for mayor in the sama election." 
Sur\'i\'in.c are the widow and two sons. 
PATRICK F. O'BRIEN, *45, died of a heart at­tack Jan. 18 in a Chicago hospital after an illness of a month. He was employed as an accountant In Chicago. 
His father, FRANCIS B., '02, died about ten year! ago. A brother, FRANCIS, was graduated from Notre Dame in 1947. 

The body was interred in the family plot in Cedar Grove Cemetery, South Bend, Jan 21. Surviving are his mother, two sisters, and the brother. 
GEORGE A. DINNE.V,, ex '12, died of peritoni­tis in Wesley Memorial Hospital, Chicago, on De c 13, several days after an emergency appendectomy. 
The 54-year-old native of Fort Wayne, Ind., was the war-time head of the Chicago regional ofHce of \ the War Production Board. His father, DR. JAMES 
• ' M. DINNEN, Graduated from Notre Dame in 1896. 
Last rites were held in the Cathedral of the Im­maculate Conception, Fort Wayne, the Rt. Rev. Msgr. John A. Dapp, pastor, officiating. 
Sur\*ing are the widow; a son, JAMES DINNEN, four brothen.. and three sisters. 
JOSEPH C. RL'PPE, ex '83, pioneer merchant and banker in the northern Michigan copper coun­try, died in Hancock, Mich., on Dec. 29. 
He carried on the mercantile business founded by his father in 1862 and was a director of the Superior National Bank and Trust Co. from 1912 until Jan., 1947. when he became chairman or the board. 
During .i lifetime spent in the town of his birth, Air. Ruppe gave invaluable ser\'ice to enterprises associated with the promotion and growth of the city and was a generous contributor to all worthy causes and his church. For a great many years he was a trustee of St. Joseph's Church. 
.At Notre Dame,, which he entered at the age of 15, he played on the varsity baseball team. 
Sur\'iving are his wife; four sons, JOSEPH P., '30, 

^ and ARTHUR T.. '33, of South Bend, and ROB­
9 ERT J., '31, and RICHARD V., '42, of Chicago; and one daughter. 
C. DAVE REID. who attended Notre Dame in 1919-'21, '23-'24, and '26-'27, died in a hospital in Vincennes. Ind.. on Jan. 17. of iniuries recei\-ed in an automobile accident. 
Dave sustained the fatal injuries on Jan. 15 when his car slid off the ic>* road near Vincennes and crashed into a tree. He was a resident of South Bend. 
REV. WILLUM R. CONNOR, C.S.C, one of the best informed authoritcs on the ritual of the Catholic Church, died Jan 23, in the community infinnar)* at Notre Dame at the age ol 83. 
A native of Providence, R. I., he spent his en­tire religious life within a two-mile radius of Notre Dame. From 1895 to 1920 he was master of nov­ices at one of the seminaries at Notre Dame and for the next 10 years was superior of the community house for older religious at Notre Dame. Until his retirement last year Father Connor was chaplain 
a: St. Mary's College. 
Serving as master of cennonies at all religious 

functions at Notre Dame for many years. Father 
^ Connor directed the religious exercises Incident 
T to the ordination of most of the priests who today administer Notre Dame. He celebrated the golden anniversary of his ordination In 1940. 
Rev. Christopher O'TooIe, C.S.C., assistant pro­vincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, celebrated the funeral Mass in Sacred Heart Church Jan. 26. Rev. William Minick, C.S.C, and Rev. Joseph Corcoran, C.S.C., were the deacon and sub-deacon. Interment was in the community cemetery. 
BERNARD B. FOLEY, 23, died In Culver Hos­pital, Crawfordsville, Ind., on Jan. 1 shortly after he was stricken with a heart attack. 
After receiving his LL.B. from the Notre Dame Law School in 1925, Bernle entered the practice of law with his father and had since been active in many civic and community afliairs. During the %var he was chairman of the county rationing board, being one of the two board chairmen in Indiana to ser\-e throughout the life of the rationing system. He also served as secretary of the Montgomery County Historical Society and for many years was a mem> ber of the Crawfordsville Park Board. 
He was a member of the board of fllrectors and also attorney for the Elston Bank & Trust Co. and was active in the affairs of the Hoosier Crown Corp. 
Bernie was a member of the Wabash Valley No­tre Dame Club and the Knights of Columbus. He belonged to both the county and state bar associa­tions. Surviving Bcrnic are his widow, two daugh­ters, and his father. 
LUCIUS B. ANDRUS, '10, retired public utility executive and engineer, died in his home in In­dianapolis, on Dec. 13. 
Mr. .\ndnis was chief engineer and general super­intendent of the Indiana and Michigan Electric Co. in South Bend until 1916, when he became vice president of the American Public Utilities. From 1917 to 1934 he ser\ed as president or vice presi­dent of a number of central Indiana public utility companies which were gradually merged with the Public Ser\-icc Co. of Indiana. He promoted and built the Dresser power station near Terre Haute, which is the principal source of electrical energy for the cental part of the state. 
Mr. Andrus was a member of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, a fellow in the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, and a mem{>er and director of the Indiana[>oIis Athletic Club. 
Funeral services were held in Indianapolis and burial in Brooklyn, N. Y. He is sur\'ivcd by a daughter and two sons. 
SISTER FRANCIS JEROME, C.S.C, M.A., '27, religious superior of St. Mary*s College, died Jan. 5 in St. Joseph Hospital, South Bend, after a long illness. 
Born Susan A. O'Laughlin in Seneca, III., in 1877, Sister Francis Jerome was professed in 1902. She taught at St. Mary's and from 1931 to 1947 was vice president of the college. She w*as also head of the classical language department and was appointed religious superior in 1945. 
In addition to the master's degree from Notre Dame, Sister Francis Jerome held a doctor of phil­osophy dgeree from Fordham. She is the author of the book, "This Is Mother Pauline,'* a biography of Mother Pauline, president of St. Mary's from 1898 to 1931. 
A solemn Requiem High Mass was celebrated in the Chapel of the Immaculate Conception at St. Mary's by Rev. John Murphy, C.S.C, vice presi­dent of Notre Dame, on Jan. 7. Burial was in the community cemetery. 
SISTER MARY BENEDICT W.\LSH, who at­tended summer sessions at Notre Dame In '30, Ml, and '41, died at the Convent of the Immaculate Conception in Peoria. 111., on Jan. 4. A member of the order of the Sisters of St. Francis, she died in the 37th year of her religious profession. 
ROBERT M. FITZGERALD, '42. died Christmas morning in Indianapolis of head injuries stistained in a fall. 
The son of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Fitnjerald, he was in the conl business In Indianapolis with his father. 
Sur\*Iving are the widow and three children. 
KENNETH J. McCONNELL, LL.B., '34, died on Dec 8. No other information was available as the ALUMNUS went to press. 
FRANK A. REPPENHAGEN, m , '39, died of a cerebral hemorrhage in Sisters Hospital lo Buffalo, 
N. Y., on Dec 12. Frank was stricken while at the plant of Joe Ryan, a classmate and close friend, and died within a few days. Frank served as a lieuteiumt in the Coast Guard aboard a submarine chaser in World War 11, Ocmg discharged in 1943. At Notre Dame he was editor of the Dome in 1938, and won a tennis monogram. In Buffalo, he was a partner with his father in the Reppenhagen Printing Rollers Manufacturing Co. On Dec. 14, 25 Buffalo alumni led by Bishop John F. O'Haia, C.S.C^, said the rosary at Frank's home. The funeral Mass was at St. Ikfargaret's Church on De c 15. Notre Dame pallbearers were tVilUam H. Waters, Jr., '39, and Joe F. Ryan. Members of the Buffalo Club who formed a guard of honor were I^resiflent Donald Love, John Hoel­scher, George Ferrick, Afaurice Kelly, James Sulli­van, Carl Nagcl, Robert Nager, Ted Kumrow, and Daa Shccdy. Sur\i\'ing Frank are his parents, widow, and three 
chilflren. The youngest child, Marjorie Ann, was born on Jan. 14, 1948. 
FERDINAND G. LONG, '90. a former news­paper artist and cartoonist, died In his home in Brooklyn, N. Y., Jan. 12 after a long illness. 
After he was graduated from Notre Dame, Mr. Long received a LL.B. from Harvard, and later studied art. For a time he practiced law in New York and later became associated with the New York Evening World. The association continued from 1895 until 1930 with the exception of two years on the staff of the London Daily Express, In recent years he had been engaged In the ad\'ertlsing busi­ness. 
His newspaper work included sketches on news and sports subjects and the production of comic strips. He was a frequent contributor to the old Life and other weekly and monthly magazines. 
He is survived by two sons and five grandchildren. 
DON JUSTER, of Albans, N. Y., a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, died in Clinic Hospital in \flchlgan City, Ind., Jan. 17 of injuries suffered in an auto-truck collision near New Buffalo, Mich. 
WILLIAM A. MOORE, ex '02, died in Ham­mond, Ind., on De c 26. No other information was available except the bare report of hts death. 
WILLIAM J. BURKE, '12, died In Chicago on Dec. 11. No other information was available. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathy to AL\RK 
E. NOLAN, on the death of his father; to WIL­LU M J. SHARP, '37. on the death of his father; to Re\-. EDMUND J. MURRAY, CS.C, '34 on the death of his brother-in-law; to JOSEPH P.. '30, ARTHUR T.. '33. ROBERT J., '31, and RICH­ARD V. RUPPE, '42, on the death of their father, JOSEPH C RUPPE, ex '83; to Rev. BERNARD 
J. FURSTOSS, C.S.C, Ml, on the death of his father; to ROY CARLSON, ex '45, on the death of hil father. 
Personals 
IQIM^JIA Bobeii E. Ptoelor. Monger 
M^ . MAURICE F. GRIFFIN testified before the House of Representati\-es Wa^fs and Means Com* mittee, which is considering tax exemptions as tiiey relate to non-profit hospitals, that the Cath<^c Church operates 1,0(9 hospitals staffed by 22,000 Sisteis and Brothers, and 160,000 lay workers, as­
sisted by 40,000 ph>^dans. More than three million 
pcnons recei\-e complete medical care in Catholic 
institution; annually. 
Dr. HARRY C. ENGELDRUM is an osteopathic physician practicing in Chicago. His ofHce address is 647 .Addison St., Chicago 13. 
10AR_A 0 ^^^- Thomos E. Burke, 
• ¥WWn ^ CS.C, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Class of 1908 
40-Year Reunion 
June 4-6 

THOMAS A. E. LALLY is practicing la>v in Spo­kane. Wash. His home address is 524 W. 7th Ave. 
 J. Ecdser. 324 Fourth St^ 

1912 B. 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 

Twenty-eight years ol coaching were honored at a dinner for ROBERT E. "PETE" VAUGHAX in Indianapolis on Jan. 17 at which CHET GRANT was one of the principal speakers. Pete retired as Wabash College athletic cUrector at the end of the last season. His nearly three decades of coaching made him the dean of Indiana athletic coaches. 
 B. Bynie, University Li­

1913 Paul 
brary. Noire Dame, Ind. 
35-Year Reunion June 4-6 

>VILLIAM E. COTTER, counsel for the Union Carbide and Carbon Corp, in New York City, has been named chairman of the 1948 drive for the United Negro College Fund, Inc. Last year he was one of the national vice chairmen, and in 1946 was dty chairman of New York. Dr. Frederick D. Pat­terson, president of Tuskegee Institute and president of the fund, said the campaign would be conducted in 55 cities with large Negro populations. 
The fund seeks support for 32 member colleges for Negroes. Winthrop W. Aldrich of the Chase National Bank is treasurer of the fund, and John 
D. Rockefeller, Jr., will continue as chairman of 
the national council of the fund. A testimonial luncheon, was tendered Bill on Jan 
23. He was honored for his services as chairman of the New York University-Bellev-ue Medical Center Fund during the past year. During his chairman­ship $1,250,000 was collected for the fund. 
1914 Ira W, Hurley, Contineutal Illi­nois Bomk BIdg., 231 S. LaSolle SL, Ciucago 
From IRA W. HURLEY: I have \"ery little to report. The illness of my wife pre\'ented me from attending the Army game, but se\"cral of the men of '14 were there. A brief reunion was staged at the home of WALTER CLEMENTS in South Bend bv R/\Y MILLER, KEENE FITZPATRICK, TWOMEY CLIFFORD. PEACHES GRANFIELD and his brother, JIM, and TOM CURRV, and RONALD O'NEILL. 
RAY T. MILLER, former mayor of Cleveland, has announced his candidac>' for the 1948 Demo­cratic nomination for governor of Ohio. 
VAJ E James E. Sanford. 509 Cherry 
•'•'stWinnetka, m. 
From JIM SANFORD: RAY EICHENLAUB, who u-as stricken with a heart attack that confined him to St. Anthony's Hospital, Columbus, O., wrote on Jan. 12 that he H-as reco\'ering satisfactorily. That he has not lost his sense of humor is evident throughout his letter, and as for his fighting spirit, he assured it i~. the 
same as in the da>-s when he won AIl-American iootball honors. Ray's address is 1 South Fourth St., Columbus. 
ART CARMODY was reelected president of the Louisiana-Arkansas di\-ision of the Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association meeting in New Orleans on Dec !0. 

1916 GroTer F. fCller, 610 IK^soonaiii Ave^ Badne, Wis. 
Father HUGH O'DONNEL, CS.C , former pres­ident of the University who died last June, be­queathed more than 300 volumes to the library of King's College in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., which is oper­ated by the Holy Cross Order. The collection %vas his personal library*, and was made up of volumes dealing with history, politics, political philosophy and allied topics. 
1918 John A. lenuner. 901 lake Shore Drive, Escanaba, Mich. 
30-Year Reunbn June 4-6 

PAUL E. EDGREX is with the Uni\-ersal C.I.T. Credit Corp. in Milu-aukee. 
RENE RODRIGUEZ, who is a practicing physi­cian and surgeon in Denver, Col., is also the Dominican Republic consul. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Leo D. Kelley, '21, was general chairman of the St. Joseph's Hospital Drive in the diocese of Syracuse. The $1,500,000 netted in the drive will be used to build a wing that will double the capacity of the only Catholic hospital in Syracuse. 
Mr. Kelley is a partner in the firm of Kelley Brothers, coal merchants, and a di­
lEO D. KELLEY, '21 

rector in the Merchants National Bank and Trust Company. He is a former national director of the Alimmi Association and is now city chairman of the Notre Dame Foun­dation. 
A life-long resident of Syracuse, he headed the Community Chest in 1946," is a member of the Laymen's Board of Loretto Reit, Catholic home for the aged, and is active in a boys' club and in many other civic and church functions. He is the father of 
three children. m , WALTER B. DeGREE, who has a wide-spread M 
reputation as an architect, has offices in the Barium 
Towef, Detroit. 
1919 Clarence W. Bader, 921 Broad­way> Gory. Ind* 
JOSEPH I. MARTIX. 2007 University Ave., Mil­H-aukee, Wis., is hearing officer of the Wisconsin Industrial Commission. 
Dr. JOHN F. RALSTON, a capiain in the Ma­rine Corps, is on the staff of the U. S. Marine Hospital in Cle%'eland. 
 B. Ward, 458 Spring St., 

1920 Leo 
Los Angeles 13, Calif. 

Illinois Democratic leaders have selected SHER­WOOD DIXOX as the party candidate for lieu­tenant governor. 
 W. Duify, 1600 Terminal 

1921 Dan 
Tower, CleTeland, O. 

CHET GR.ANT has resigned as manager of the South Bend Blue Sox, a team which pla\-s in the Girls' Professional Baseball League, and accepted a similar position with the Kenosha Comets, of the same league. 
CLIPPER SMITH, head coach of the Boston ^ Yanks of the National Football League, jokinly told " FRANK THOMAS after his Alabama team had been defeated 27 to 7 by Texas in the Sugar Bowl New Year's Day, that he has aU*'a>*s contended the three best plays in football are the blocked punt, inter­cepted pass, and recovered fumble. Those three pla>-s led to Alabama's defeat. 
1922 Ceroid Ashe, 39 Cambridge St.. Hochesler 7 N. Y. 
From KID ASHE: 
We oi 1922 tender our sympathy to JERRY 
JONES and HERB JONES, 27, of Dixon, III., 
over the death of their brother WILLARD, *25, in 
an automobile accident near Rochelle, 111., follow­
ing the Notre Dame-Xorthwestcrn game last No­
\-ember. Similarly we express our sorrow to the 
widow and children of the deceased, also to his 
mother, and brothers. Jerr>*, himself, was quite 
badly injured in the same accident, suffering a 
brokien hip, and other injuries. He has been bed­
ridden for weeks in the hospital at Rochelle, and 
at his home in Dbton. A few letters from the bo\-s 
would help Jerry a lot in his conv-alesence. 
Here is a letter from Vincc Hanrahan. dated Nov. 25, written at Fort Davis in the Canal Zone: 
''Seems like a long time since last Commence­ment—just found the October ALUMNCS in my boy's bedroom, and learned you were in the Southland trying to regain your accent. 
''I get home occasionally between trips to some of the 16 countries where we arc cooperating with the mapping agencies in geoditic and mapping work. By the way, want to get straight on the news item DAN YOUNG inserted lest HUGH MFTCHELL and others of the U. S. Coast and Geoditic Survey wonder about my connections. 
"Am with the Inter-American Geodetic Sur\ey, a dx-ilian agency of the War Department, as chief geodetic engineer. We have as staff officers, three commanders of the U. S. Coast and Geodetic Sun-ey as well as Na\-y and .Array officers. 
"Have been fortunate to see some N.D. men in each capital. I saw ENRIQUE RvVSSELOT in San­tiago. Chile. I remembered him as one of PROF. ACKERMANN'S prize students. I saw JOE HAR­RINGTON here in Panama, and called U[}on, but did not sec C. C. FITZGERALD in Ha\-ana. 
"Since the reunion, I have looked over the 1922 Dome. I hope HAROLD McKEE^'s pony Dome will enlighten us about some of the bo>-s who have dropped out o( sight." 
The Class of '22 declares an all-out war on the underworid. Three o( our most dbtinguished mem­bers—Judge ROGER KILEY, and attorneys CHET WYNNE and JEROME DIXON who were minding their own business, and taking a peaceful train ride on the N. Y. C. from South Bend to Chicago on 
Dec. 13, were robbed at gun point by a holdup man who boarded the train at Englewood Station. k'^, Roge, Chet and Jerry had been attending a law 
~ symposium at Notre Dame. Our reporter has not inter\-iewed these men since the robbery took place. A Chicago newspaper states that Roge was relieved of $25.00 and a ring; that Chet contributed $S5.1KI and a watch; and that Jcrr>* lost some money. However, the Milwaukee Journal of Dec. 14, states that Jerry Dixon refused to give up his wallet, and the robber fled when he noted the train was slowing, down for arri^-al at the station. Jerry, what is your version? 
JOHN P.\UL CULLEN, regional director of Veteran; Administration for Wisconsin, recently moved into new quarters in Milwaukee which were remodeled by a fellow schoolmate—CLE^fENT GERBER o( which mention is made in the 1912 column this issue. Both men worked in the closest cooperation in planning and making the necessary changes. 
John Paul states that he and his wife were South Bend guests of EUGENE SMOGORS on the weekend of the Army game. We also have word from J. P. that he is seriously considering a new (Centennial—Stale of Wisconsin) edition of his pub­lication of some years ago—a work which com­prise; some most interesting and amusing short stories of life in rural Wisconsin. 
D.\N YOUNG and Mrs. Young took a trip to Florida and Cuba in late November and early December. Prior to that, Dan had not been feeling very well—too much work, but, of course, our Dan 
I would never admit that! In Jacksonville, Dan had 
• a talk with FRITZ BAUMER who is in business for himself—concrete and terazzo floors. 
HUNK ANDERSON*S son BiUy is developing into a top flight prep football player at Grossc Pointe, Mich., but he is carr>-ing the ball instead of opening up the holes for the runners as bis famous father did at guard. 
109^ Paul H. Coslner, 1305 W. Arling­
• 'A ^ ton Ave., St Paul, BiCim. 
25-Year Reunion 
June 4-6 

JOHN DEMPSEY. who was being considered as a possible Republican candidate for states attorney in Chicago, withdrew himself from consideration in order to manage Governor Green's campaign for relection to the Illinois gubernatorial post. 
DAVID \V. SULLIVAN is a vessel agent and broker in Cleveland. 
JERRY H.-\G.\N is the co-owner of the Western Seaboard Co. in Seattle, Wash. 
1924 
H.\RRY S. DRIGGS. wlio M-as assistant vice president of the First Bank and Trust Co. in South Bend, has joined the sales staff of the Scherman­Schaus-Freeman Co.. automobile dealers of South Bend. 
EUGEXIO VI.AL writes from Concepcion, Chile, asking for the addresses of EDWARD S. SULLI­V.\N-, CHARLES R. O'TOOLE, GERALD LYONS, CORNELIUS A. R.\UH, FRANK F. MEAGHER, EDW.\RD G. CAXTWELL, FR.\NK X. EGAN, and MARK G. KREUTZER. [The addresses were mailed to him—Ed.] Gene*s address is .Ave. F. D. Roosevelt 1618. 
1925 John P. Hurley, The Toledo Par­lor Furniture Co.. Toledo. O. 
JIM CROWLEY, who coached the Chicago Rock­ets of the pro All-.-\merican football conference last season, has announced his retirement from football to accept a position with Paul Bell, Inc., a New York firm of exporters and importers. 
HARRY STUHLDREHER, of Four Horseman fame and coach at [he University of Wisconsin, was quoted as ranking Michigan as slightly stronger than the 1947 Fighting Irish. Harry knows Michigan's power first hand, his team having been routed by the Wolverines, but he did not see Notre Dame play. 
1926 Victor F. Lemmer. Box 681. fron­wood. BiGch. 
From VIC LEMMER: 
"I was in the Chicago-Detrott-Lansing area for over a week and I flew into Chicago to see the Notre Dame-Northwestern basketball game commem­orating the 50th anniversary of Notre Dame basket­ball. I had a chance to shake hands with MOOSE KRAUSE, HERB JONES and FRED DULLER. 
"At Lansing I saw HOWARD WEIMERSKIRK, '26. I saw him only twice within 22 years, and each time at the Olds Hotel in Lansing. He is a super­vising field auditor for General Motors. 
"HAROLD "SENATOR" WATSON '25, has an interest now in a large insurance firm in Milwaukee, and his address is Baerwald and Hoffman, Fine Arts Building, East Wells, Milwaukee. Recently I had a very nice letter from TIGHE WOODS, 33, United States Rent Expediter. It so happens that I taught him in a class of government with the Min­ims for two years while I was at Notre Dame. While in Detroit I went to see ED CROWE, tbe 
C.Y.O. director for the Detroit archdiocese. He 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
John P. Traynor, '25, is a newly appointed second vice-president of The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York, according to an announcement of Alexander E. Pat­terson, president. 
Following his graduation from Notre Dame, Mr. Traynor joined the New York 
JOHN P. TBAYNOR. '25 

Title and Mortgage Company and became assistant to the treasurer in 1929. Three years later he transferred to Nyamco Asso­ciates, Inc., a management and real estate subsidiary of New York Title and Mortgage, where he devoted his entire time to real estate problems. 
For seven years, Mr. Traynor was deputy superintendent of the New York State In­surance Department. He joined The Mu­tual Life in 1943 as manager of real estate. From .April, 1945, until his recent promo­tion, the 47-year-old Riverdalc, N. Y., resi­dent was assistSmt manager of the real estate mortgage department, supervising both mortgage and real estate operations of the company. 
31 

did not hapiKo to be in his office. Ed is very 
successful and he has a typical Cnvwe fanuly. 
"Il so happens that Governor Sigkr o( Mifhigan has appointed me a member of the Board of Man­agers of the Upper Peninsula State Fair and 1 attended a state meeting in Detroit. While there 1 had a visit with HUNK ANDERSON'. 
"WILLfAM F. WITTENBURG, 33, formerlr of New Buffalo, Mich., is supenosii^ auditor for the Auditor Generates department of tlie State of Midi­igan. His job is of great importance and he holds one of the greatest accounting jobs in the state capitoV 
tRVING HURWICH was appointed St. Joseph county attorney by the county commissioners at m meeting in South Bnd on Jan. 5. ­
Dr. JERRY HAYES has become associated with Dr. Gustave A. Braun in East Orange, N. J., in the practice of obstetrics and gynecology. 
"Flay Ball," a book edited and written by BERT. ' DUNNE, has been published by Doubleday. It con­tains chapters on pitching by Dave Ferriss,. batting by Ted Williams, and base-running :by Ty Cobb. 
J. NORBERT "DOC" GLEASON has become associated with Griswold and Company, general in­surance brokers, in New York City. 
EDWARD P. SHANLEY is practicing law in New York City. 
"Any grandfathers in the class yet?" That was the question in the '26 news in the December issue. And the answer is "yes." FRED CLEMENTS of South Bend has the honor (as far as the Alumni 0£Bce reporter has been informed) of being the class' first grandfather, and the only one to date. Fred's daughter, Betty Clements Peck, is the daugh­ter of Elizabeth Glenna, bom Aug. 9, 19t7. Fred has four daughters and a son. 
1927 leaaph M. Bdand, Badio StaiiQa WSBT. South Band. Ind. 
From JOE BOLAND: HELP! HELP! HELP! 
WILLfAM P. CLARKE, Jr., is in the real esute and imurance business in Toledo. His address is 2022 Forest Ave., Toledo 6. 
PATRICK A. HENEY, Jr., is practicing law in Seattle, Wash. 
SCRAPIRON YOUNG, who became famous as Notre Dame's tr^ner before leaving to take up the same duties in the pro football ranks, is opening a beer distributing agency in Los Angeles. 
RAY GILLESPIE is practicing law in Sault Ste. Marie, Mich. He has ofBces in the Sault Savings Bank BIdg. 
I A M louis F. Buclday. 170 E. 191>t Su • *^ * Eudid 11. Ohio. 
20-Year Reunioii 
June4>6 
BULLETIN 

The big '28 party for Friday night, June 4, will be held in the Izaak Walton League dubhouse, northwest of the University, according to late word from WILLARD WAGNER, co-chairman of local '28 arrangements for the reunion. Located in a secluded vnooded area, yet only about two miles front' the campus, the clubhouse is an ideal spot for such a party. Wag reports also that plans are set for a fish fry, music and such. You'll hear more later. Right now, just get set to be there. 
From LOU BUCKLEY: The first children of a '28 man to attend Notre Dame ate FRANK and JIM, sons of FRANK O'TOOLE. They entered last September. Thar father, as you know, died in 1932. There wiQ no doubt be additional sons of '28 men at Notre Dame next September. I know of ttra close friends, ART 
32 
GLEASOX and FRANK DONOVAN, who have sons applying for admission. Let me know* of others 
m this group. 
In addition to the five '2S men listed by mc in the December ALUMNUS, the following are serving as Notre Dame Foundation citv chairmen: ED DEAN, Xfonesscn. Pa.; JOHN FREDERICK, Mus­kegon, Mich.; JOHN CARROLL, Springfield, UK; HENRY MASSAL\N, Kansas City, Mo.; and JOHN MURPHY, LitUe Rock, Ark. JOHN McMAHON is the Foundation governor for PcnnsyK-ania. 
FLOYD SEARER, formerly \ice president and trust officer of the First Bank and Trmt Co. ol South Bend, became affiliated as a member of the firm of Crumpacker, May, Carlisle, Beamcr and Searer on Jan. 1. 1948. in South Bend. 
FATHER JIM McSH.ANE, S.J., has been assign­ed to the Jesuit parish in Mankato, Minn. He is keeping up his work of preaching and is concen­trating on that locale, where the Jesuits have a mission band for the Winona diocese. He expected to get a little skiing done there as he made his debut with skiis at the Coooer Hill slide near Lead­\-iIle, Colo., last year. 
ART STENIUS is with Teaching Films, Inc., 2 West 20th St., New York City, as educational di­rector. Art still carries his home address as Detroit, so I assume the New York assignment is a tem­porary one. 
GEORGE O'BRIEN is co-owner of a flourishing new drug store in Rosebnd, the fast-growing subur­ban area fust north of South Bend, on the Nilcs road. 
I met WILLARD WAGNER, FLO\T) SEARER, -ANDY BOYLE, ED QULVN, RONALD RICH, and BILL DOOLEY on Dec. 31 to make plans for our 20-ycar reunion June 4-6. The committee will arrange a real get-together for Friday night, June 4, and will also provide each member with something novel to wear to identify '2& men that weekend. 
We not only have the good fortune to have BERNIE GARBER in the key job of chairman of the Publicity Committee for the reunion, but he has also agreed to proceed with a class history*. You ^rill, no doubt, be receiving a questionnaire from him soon for this history. Please give him your coopera­tion by completing the history questionnaire and returning it to him at once. It will be impossible to complete the history" without a large percent of the class represented in the returns. 
FRANK KELLEY and his wife have just an­nounced the birth of Robert Joseph, their seventh child. Please advise me if there are any other '28 men who can meet this record to date. Frank's address is ClifTwood St., Lee, Massachusetts. 
DAN BRADLEY noted on his questionnaire that he saw GUY LORANGER in New Guinea and GEORGE CRONGEYER in the Philippines, He hopes to see them again at the reunion. 
BOTFS CROWLEY sa>-s he will plav golf with PAT CANN"Y or BERNIE ARBOIT at the re­union weeknd if they give him a stroke a hole. 
JOHN DAVIS mentioned he saw TURK MEIN­ERT at the Army game. Turk saw to it that John returned his questionnaire. 
I understand that FRANK DONOVAN is now president of the Kaydon Engineering Corp. in Mus­kegon, Mich. 
Listed below are the committees for the reunion. They were selected from the 100 men who advised me in September, in reply to my questionnaire, that they expect to attend the reunion. As you look over the list I am sure you will see the names of many friends you will want to join that weekend. Please advise me at once that you will attend so I can add your name to this list in the next ALUM­NUS. The committees, made up only of men who expect to attend, arc as follows: 
Publicity: Bernard A. Garber, Chairman; John F. McMahon, John A. Mullen, Geoi^e A. Sclicuer, George Kelley, Eugene Farrell. Local Arrangements: Willard Wagner and Floyd Searer, Chairmen; .-Vndrew Boj^e, Edward Quinn, Ronald Rich, Rev. Mark 
J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., Robert Gresser, Burton Toepp, Jacob Gilbert, Harold Miller, Roy Wordcn, Charles W'illiams. George O'Brien. Mass for Deceased '28 .\fn: Frank P. Creadon, Chairman; Rev. Anorew Mulrcany, C.S.C., Joseph W. Griffin, Fred W. Pfortner. Joseph Lani;ton. Afass for Living '2S Men: John Igoc, Chairman; William H. Leahy, Laurence W'ingerter, John W. Egan, J. M- Crowley. Norucrt 
A. Seidensticker. Softball Gam>:: Maurice Conlcy, Chairman; Dr. John W. Viktoryn, George J. Sar­giis, Harry Schubmehl. 
COMMITTEES TO PROMOTE ATTENDANCE OF GROUPS AND TO ARRANGE FOR GROUP GET-TOGETHERS SATURDAY 
.4.iJ.: D. M. Meinert, Chairman; John Frederick, William B. Jones, Robert A. Grant, Richard Phelan, John R. Murphy, John Davis. Commerce: Howard Phalin, Chairman; Edward Dean, Frank Donovan, Joseph Geraghty, August Grams, William Croiun. Science: Andrew Boyle, Chairman; Dr. Da\id S. Solomon. Dr. Paul G. Tobin. Dr. John W. Vik­toryn, John L. Worden, Dr. Daniel J. Bradley. Engineers: John Larscn, Chairman; Bernard Loef­flcr, Joseph Simonin, Alfred Schnurr, Charlci Schues­sler, Russel Smith. Charles Topping, Laurence A. Wingcrter. Architects: Robert Knox, Chairman; David Smith. James T. Canizaro, Arnold Thoma, Paul Brust. '28 Lawyers: Stephen Wozniak, Chiur­man; James G. Cowlcs. Edmund McClarnon, Rich­ard Quinlan, Martin Rini, William A. Hurley, Cy­prian H. Sporl. '29 Lawyers: William Dowdall, Chairman; Willard Wagner. Physical Education: Jo­seph Morrissey, Chairman; Ray Mock. 
STATE AND CITY COMMITTEES TO PROMOTE ATTENDANCE 

Wcfl Coast Statfs: Edward Cunningham; Moun­tain States: Edmund J. Finn; Southern States: Rob­ert E\-ans; Nezv England States: John F. Robinson, Charles Ducy, John W. Egan; Rev. George P. Benaglia, C.S.C.; Illinois: Chicago—Edward Mc-Keown, Chairman; Edward Rafter, Bernard Kor­zen, William Leahy; Downstate—Dr. Paul To­bin; Indiana: Indianapolis—W. H. Konop, Wil­liam O'Mara; State—^Thomas Lavclle, Arthur Mil­ler; Michigan: Detroit—Arthur Stenius; State—^Leo Walsh; Minnesota: Tliomas C. Mahon, Robert Fo­gerty; Missouri: Joseph Langton; New Jersey: Ed­ward J. Duffy; New York: New York City— Robert Hamilton, John Lavelle, John Wingcrter; State— Joseph Dcbott, Charles Topping, Joseph Haney, Francis Connors, Kenneth Power, Philip O^Connor, Harr>' Schubmehl; Pennsylvania: Pittsburgh—John Shcedy; State—Peter J. Gallagher; Texas: Christie Flanagan; Washington, D. C: J. Har\-ey Daly. 
HAROLD J. COSGROVE is the divisional man­ager of the Central Home Products Co. in Kansas City, Mo. 
A. GORDON BENNETT, of the Buffalo Courier-Express, was the financial chairman of the Good Fellows Membenhip campaign, which is an organi­zation to provide Christmas gifts for needy children and hospitalized war veterans. The campaign was the most successful ever conducted. 
LOU BUCKLEY PHESmENT OF ECONOMICS MEETING 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY, '28, was presi­dent of the sixth annual meeting of the Catholic Economic Association ot Loyola University, Chicago, on Dec. 27. JOHN H. SHEEHAN, '33. head of the Economics Department at Notre Dame, was chairman of the program committee, while Ber. lAMES E. NORTON, C.S.C., '29. pro­fessor of Economics, wos on the panel which discussed "Teodiing Economics in High School." 
The aims and objectives ol the Association are to formulate a com­prehensive and well-rounded pre­sentation of Cluistian social prin­ciples and to further the develop­ment of scientiiic economic analysia in all its ospects. 
The Notre Dome Alumnus 

SPOTLIGHT AlUMHI 
Jerome J. Crowley, jr., '31, recently was elected president and Eugene L. O'Brien, '35, was elected vice-president and treasurer of the O'Brien corporation of South Bend. 
Both are grandsons of the late Patrick O'Brien, who founded the corporation in 1875. The O'Brien corporation is one of the largest independent manufacturers of paint in the United States. It boasts one 
Jerome J. Crowley Eugene L. O'Brien 
of the most successful research development organizations in the industry- and manufac­tures a complete line of architectural paints, varnishes, enamels, and lacquers. 
Mr. Crowley is the son of Jerome J. Crowley, '01, Chicago, and Mr. O'Brien is the son of the late George L. O'Brien, '93, South Bend. 
1929 James B. Nowery, P. O. Box 1545. Shrereport La* 
From JIM NOWERY: 
I was up to the Army-Notre Dame game and spent some time with FATHER LOU THORN­TON, who is one of our classmates, doing a s%vell job as registrar of the University. Spent some time with JOHNNY DORGAN and his wonderful family in Winnetka, III., Chicago suburb. 
I also understand that BUD WILHELMY, origin­
ally from Cleveland, is president of the ^^oto^ Ex­
change in Chicago. 
VIC ESSROGER is doing a iwcll Job studying Fords in Chicago—in fact he owns two or three ^k agencies. FRANK DOAN is in the advertising bus-^ incss in Chicago. 
LOUIS NIEZER is an attornev at Fort Wayne. FRANK McANANEY, originally of Yonkers, N. Y., is doini; a swell lob .ns a la\oer in Nev%' York City, and A. P. GALD.ABINI is doint; a bii: paper business in Wisconsin. 
'29 class pickings are pretty slim for this issue— I would ver>* much appreciate hearing from all the '29ers. 
CLETUS P. SCHNEIDER is secretary-treasurer of the Schneider Transportation Co., 1075 Forest Cliff Drive, Lakewood 7, O. 
JAMES T. ASKEY is a sales and mechanical engineer in Inglewood, Calif. 
CHARLES E. MEYER is assistant manager of Sears, Roebuck and Co. at Colorado Springs, Col. 
JIM KENNEDY sent out unique Christmas cards. Photographs ol Jim, his wife, and eight children wished the recipients a merr>" Christmas. 
10 M Harold E. Duke. 4030 N. Broad *'9V St.. Philodelphia. Pa. 
From HAROLD DUKE: % If only »-e had more like MRS. JIM LEADY this column would get more news. She says: "Since 
my husband is such a busy man, I will drop you a note." Thanks, Mrs. Leady, you give me the , thought of contacting more wives of Thirty. Mrs. 
• Leady goes on to announce the birth of Theresa "Terry" Louise on Dec. 19; this latest addidon making a total of three bo)*: and four girls for Jim. As it now stands, Jim is champ of the class. Let's hear from any others who can claim greater honori than Jim. 
EMIL "DICK" WALTERS—formerly of Corn­ing, N. Y., writes as sales manager of Powdered Metal Products Corp., Franklin Park, 111., to say he is interested in lining up sales rcprcscniaiives throughtout the United States and foreign countries. 
BILL FIXK kindly provided transportation for ye scribe from N.D. to Fort Wayne recently.'This is to publicly express my gratitude and advise the Thirties Frank is with Our Sunday Visitor, as man­aging editor and doing a bang-up job. 
At our recent Alumni Board meeting, I had op­portunity again to be with BOB HELLRUNG, who was again elected V.P. of the Board, JACK ELDER, and FATHER SWEENEY. However, Prexy HARRY HCXUAN alwa>-s has such a full calendar, little time is left for us to chin over Thirty matters. We did sneak off for enough time to discuss our 1950 re­union. While it is quite away off, we feci some plans and organization work should now be laid and asked DAN CANNON to ser\-c as chairman of the Or­ganizing Committee. Let's hear from you, Dan, with some thoughts on how you want to get started. 
How about a slogan for this great reunion? I would like to see each and every one of you Thir­lies pour in slogans and news so we can start build­
• ing up right now for the greatest class reunion ever. Here is a letter I just received from DOUG DALEY: 
**Since graduation this is my first formal commu­nication to a class 5ecretar>-. although several vears ago when BERNIE CONROY stayed here loi a spell I managed to stay in touch without writing. 
"I just wanted you and any of my '30 friends to know that ere this is published I will be married. My fiancee's name is Betty Ann Arena, who like my­self, is a native of Los Angeles. We are being mar­ried on Jan. 24 at San Gabriel Mission. 
"For a shot of additional news: JACK CANNON and his wife dropped in on me a few months back; he is just the same as ever. He is now in the flower business in Columbus and is doing well. Saw a whole mob of fellows here for the S.C.-Notre Dame game, among them FRED PEAK who is now liv­ing at 2052 Mountain Boulevard in Oakland. Also 
had a letter from JACK "RED" FLINN, who is located at 624 Fourth and Pike Bldg., Seattle 1, Wash." 
And here is some news concerning the class secre­tary himself: he has been appointed district man­ager of the Wayne Pump Co. in Philadelphia. 
FRANCIS M. MESSICK, treasurer of the Ameri­can Trust Co., South Bend, has been appointed head of the central business division in the St. Joseph County drivi: for funds. 
1931 Walter F. PhiUpp. 4 Pickwick Lane, Newton Square, Pa. 
FRANK J. XOLL. Jr.. has resumed llie practice of I.-1W with his father in Indianapolis. Ind.. 410-412 Bankers Trust BIdg. 
.MOON MULLI.VS. coach of football at St. Am­brose College, is already enthusiastic about next ycari season. 
JOHN McIXTYRE has been elected president of the South Bend Y.^^.C.A. He is also the current president of the local Notre Dame club. 
1932 Jcanea K. Collins, 17 Triangle Ave., Dayton 9, O. 
From JIM COLLINS: JOHN KRAMER was in town recently, and it was the occasion for our first visit since 1943 at Solomon's Island when we were wrestling LSTs. He was returning to Kansas City from Cleveland where he had spent the week with GABE MORAX. John is a manufacturer's agent for a line of heav>' handling equipment, while Gabc is with the Auto­matic Sprinkler Corp. At Youngstown. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Tighe E. Woods, '33, was appointed Housing Expediter by President Truman, December 20. 
The 37-year-old Chicagoan began his ca­reer by specializing in property management for a large real estate firm in his home city. He opened his own property management office in 1936. While a member of the Chi­cago Real Estate Board, Mr. Woods edited the Chicago Apartment House Operating Cost Manual. He was active in Chicago real estate until August of 1942 when he entered the OPA as an examiner in the Chi­cago rent control office. 
During the war, Mr. Woods served in 
Tighe E. Woods. '33 

the Navy as a radar officer on an attack 
transport in the Pacific. 
He returned to the Office of Rent Control 
and was made rent director of the Chicago 
Rent Office in June, 1946. He was pro­
moted to regional rent director in March, 
1947. 
When Frank R. Creedon took over rent control in May, 1947, Mr. Woods was ap­pointed deputy housing expediter in charge of the Office of Rent Control. When Mr. Creedon resigned last October, Mr. Woods assumed his duties. 
John mentioned that his brother BUD KR.\MER, '33, is division manager for Dun & Bratlstreet in Detroit. He recently visited TED HALPIN' in Oma­ha. BILL COXATOX is living near Milwaukee and is with Steel and Tube there. He has three chiloren —John. 9; Laura .Anne, 6; and Dan, aged 2. 
BOB LEE has brough his famijy bacJc from Hau-aii and they are now living at 2201 St. Francis Drive, I'alo Alto, Calif. 
BOB KENNEDY is still livini; in Dayton; he is a departmental manager for the Chr>-slcr Airtemp Corp. there. 
VERNE W. HUBER, 508 Frederick St., is a dis­trict agent for the Northwestern ^^utual Life Insur­ance Co. in Ft. .Atkinson, Wis. 
It was reported in ARCH WARD'S column in the Chicago Tribune that MARCHMONT SCHWARTZ'S salary as head coach of football at Stanford has been raised to $13,300. 
JOSEPH V. STODOLA, Jr., is pracu'cing law in Hammond, Ind. 
FR.\NK F. OBERKOETTER has been appointed manager of the professional color sales of Eastman Kodak Co. in Rochester, N. Y. 
loamfh A. McCob*. Adveztiniig, 

 19^3 
Eastman Kodok Co» 343 Stat* St. RochMter. N. T. 
15-Year Reunion 
June 4-6 

From JOE McCABE: 
Dear 33*s: 
The postman was good enough to knock more 
than twice since the last appearance of the .ALUM­
NUS (not counting the bills he delivered, of course). 
TOM HUGHEN contributed a ^veIcome saga from 
which I quote in part: 
"Has been almost 13 years now since many of 
the Class ol '33 have been back to Notre Dame. 
[We\-e all got a date back there this June, though 
—remember?] I 'picture* many of these classmates 
a:: about the age of 35 or 36, bald or awfully gray, 
fathers of two or three, trying hard to get out 
nights, pretty good income-tax paying ciUzens, and 
most at least to get to Uie 12:10 on Sunda>3. 
"Howe\'er, as one* of the class and a reader of 
the ALUMNUS, it appears to me that said class is 
the least newsworthy of any of the classes or at 
least they appear reticent about having their names 
appear in print. .. . I believe you might wake up 
the gang. Would like to hear from or about the 
following: ED SULLIVAN, TOM O'MEARA—owe 
him $1^> [He admits in print! If that doesn't bring 
an answer from West Bend, Wis., brother Hughcn 
might well spend the 15 on a Requiem Mass for 
O'Meara]; FRANK McGEE, DON DRAPER, DON 
WISE, MAURY LEE, JOHNNY POYTON, BH^L 
CARROLL, ED STEPHAN, BILL DONAHUE, 
FRANK MATAVOSKI, all in or near Chicago; 
JOHNNY BOESPFLUG, of Seattle, Wash.; also 
from Washington, JOHNNY ENGLISH, DICK 
MEAD, SAM JACKSON, JIM BOYLE [noted 
later], HUGH WALL, BILLY BURKE, of Ohio; 
LAURIE VEJAR, Calif.; JOHNNY YEISER, Ken­
tucky; 'RABBI' LYNCH, GEORGE ROHRS, JOE 
BROPHY, PETE PETRILLO, of New York; BOB 
FLINT, TOM MURRAY, ROGER BRENTIAM, 
Pennsylvania; CHUCK WALTERS, Ohio; FRANK 
WERNER, TOM DOWNS, Wisconsin; NORALAN 
McCLOUD, BOB SHIELDS, Michigan; NORM.-\N 
DUKE, LARRY SEXTON, and JIM KIRBY, In­
diana. ..." 
Gulp. All from memory, too, the man 5a>:s. I mo\'e that Tom be made Official Greeter for the reunion; or better yet, take over this column. Any­one that can recall a list of names like that one without consulting a yearbook should be put to work. How about some or all of those named dropping Tom a Hne? He's with the American Republic Corp., Legal Department, 1911 Petro­leum BIdg., Houston 2, Tex. You might inform the guy whether you have any hair left—he didn\ com­mit himself, but I fear the worst! 
He also asked about some old schoolers living in 
Rochester . . . LARRY OVRPENTER, whom I 
saw at a recent ND club meeting, looking hale and 
cheerful . . . PETE CONNELLY, one of the city's 
tort-and-court specialists. Both accounted for. 
Had also a good word from ART BECVAR, who meant 'art* in more than name to me when editor of the late lamented Juggler, R.I.P. .Art is now w*ith General Electric in Bridgeport. Conn.—but let him tell it: "I am in the field of Industrial Design and have been for the past 12 years. In that time I have been associated with a consulting design organization—then with .Revere Copper & Bmw— and the past two years with General Electric, where I am design coordinator of small appliances and apparatus . . ." If that smail and select group who used to read the Juggler can remember .Art's swell covers and inside drawings, they'll be sure he will excel in anythim; GE can ask of him . . . from t&e general to the electric. 
Your corr. sec. was also honored and delighted with a wise and witty brief field by "Judge** JIM BOYLE, who is working bis way from an eminent counsel to pre-eminent barrister in Hubbard, O. 
What is it about these lawyers? "^I had a kind contribution from BILL DREUJ, the Gallic gal­liard of New Orleans—that makes three out of four contribution from BILL DREUX, the Gallic gal-bar. Junior). Is it that lawyers have more time to write, more energy .. . or more typewrliers? Bill volunteers: 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

''Let me s'lve you some neu's about the two local members of the '33 Class. JULES de la VERGNE :s an extremely successful architcci here. He has a wife, a daughter, some good Scotch, some mediocre Bourbon and a cocker—uh—female. I have a wife, no Scotch, some mediocre Bourbon and a bulldog puppy . . ." Now you know whom to visit in NVWlens, according to your taste in refreshment;;. 
1934 Joseph R. Glennon, Jr., Commer­cial Solvents Corp., 17 E. 42nd St, New York City 17. 

From JOE GLENNOX: The following letter was received from FATHER JIM MOSCOW: "My years slay in St. Louis ends around the first of the year, at which time I shall return to Chicago once more to work in the Catholic hospital field. "It was a genuine thrill to celebrate Holy Alass last Nov. 2 for the first time ^«th our new chalice freshly consecrated, for the souls of our departed bo>-s. The members of their families and all of our class were especially remembered too. I hope that at our next class reunion we can all be present to offer Mass for them on the campus. However, you may be sure that they and all of you will be remembered frequently at the .Mtar between now and then. 
"BUD VITT is an accountant down here for the government while DR. JIM MURPHY has adopted St. Louis for his medical practice. 
"Wishing you and yours God's choicest blessings 

and asking for your occasional prayers." 
.•\t this time let us express our gratitude to JIM FOREST and BOB H.-\>HLTOX for their part in establishing such an appropriate memorial for the memben: of our class who gave their all to God, Countr>") and Notre Dame. 
The Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corp. of Toledo, O., announce the appointment of FRANK X. CON­NELLY and Co. as approved aplicaior of their products. Nice going. Frank. I saw DON BRICE the other night. He is living in Scarsdale, N. Y., and has four daughters. He informed me that JOE DURKIN is married and living in Tcxa-i where, among other things, he h raising grapefruit. 
Our sincercst sjinpathy to F.-\THER GEORGE BELTING'S father and brother- We lost one of our most courageous classmates in Father George when he died after a long illness. 
Warden JOHN C. BURKE led 150 peace officers in quelling a 15-hour riot by 69 convicts at the pen­itentiar}- at Waupiin, Wis. Four guards held as hos­tages throughout the night by the convicts were released unharmed. The prisoners overpowered the guards in the prison laundry and barricaded them­selves inside. They came out next morning in small groups after Warden Burke issued an ultimatum to them. 
J-4MES T. FITZPATRICK is a student at Ecole Ixmania, Chemin de Marnex, Lausanne, Switzer­land. 
CHARLIE C.ASHMAN is the manager of a mine in Quebec pro\ince, Canada. 
ED FISHER, who is manager of the advertis­ing marketing department of the Indianapolis Star, has been elected president of the Indianapolis chap­ter of the American Marketing .Association. 
WALTER J. MEYER is the vice president of the Calumet National Bank of Hammond, Ind. ROBERT S. HALPERIN is an electrical con­tractor in Chicago. His address is 53 E. Division St. 
1935 FxdnUYn C. Hochreiter* 1327 Pentwood RdL, Baltimore 12, Md. 
From HOCH: 

With the New Year comes letters or notes from tliree parts of the compass. Just missing the last time to press was a long letter from ANDY MAF­FEI up in Yonkers, N. Y. Andy, who is practicing law in the home town at 25 South Broadway, js quite the politidan. We'll let him speak for himself: 
"Ex-ery once in a while, I take time out to drop 3 line or two n^arding my activities since leaving schooL I am interested vcr>* much in what the mem­bers of my class are doing in the various parts of the countiy that they may be located Jn. With that in mind, I w*ant to pass on some information re­garding my actions. 
".After spending 46 months in the Army, I was discharged on Febnian* 15, 1946. I remained an enlisted man throughout my Army career, spending the last 15 months in the European theatre, as a section chief of an anti-aircraft automatic gun sec­tion. After discharge, I resumed the piactice of law in Yonkers, taking up where I had left off. I was married in April, 1946. My law business has finally reached the point where I left off during the war. I was fortunate, in that I was part of a partner­ship. Consequently. I found something when I came back. I now have an addition to my family; a baby girl named Rosemary who is now eight months old. 
'*.-Mong with the general practice of law, I have taken quite an interest in politics. As one of the young leaders of the Republican party here in Yonk­ers, I was nominated for the office of councilman. We have here a system of caty manager government with proportional representation method of \'oting. Our population is approximately 160,000. There were over 60,000 people registered. Seven coundlmen were elected to office. I happened to be one of the fortunate ones, my i>osition being sixth. It also made me happy to know that our Republican party has a majority of the seven coundlmen. It was my first campaign for public office; I cannot say it was my first activity in politics. I will assume office on Jan­uary 1, 1948, for a term of two years. 
*'An interesting sidelight in this campaign was the fact that EDWARD TIGHE, of the class of around 1927, was chairman of the Democratic camp»gn committee. Our paths crossed quite often and we had an interesting time. 
"Another inddent was that ANTHONY CAM­PERLENGO of the class of 1936, was elected to the Westchester County Board of Supervisors rep­resenting my home ward. This v%-3s his first attempt at public ofBce. He, too, v*-as elected on the Repub­lican ticket and will take office on January* 1, 1948. 
"I had made reservations to attend the Army-Notre Dame game in South Bend this year, but due to the fact that the votes were being counted during that week and the results were not known until Saturday afternoon, I had to cancel my arrange­ments. Presently, I am very busy catching up on a great deal of law work which was held aside during the last IQ dayn o( the campaign. 
"In tiie future, I am looking fon^-ard to sending information regarding our bov-s as I meet them from time to time. Please give my regards to any of them that you happen to hear from.'* 
Congratulations on the new wife, the new daugh­ter, and the new dvic responsibility, Andy. It was swell hearing from you! Keep it up and try for a visit down Baltimore v%'ay. 
Shortly after the Yonker's pigeon flew in, one winged up all the way from Panama. JOE HAR­RINGTON, regional governor for the Foundation in 
, Panama, wrote from Ancon, C. Z. Back in 1941, your scribe and Mrs. Hoch spent several interesting dav-s with Joe in Panama. We give you all of Joe*s letter and ask the class of *39 to note. " 
"Just a few lines to let you know that one of your classmates, JOHN SIDNEY PETTINGILL, is with us again down here. He is the swimming in­structor at the Balboa High School in Balboa. His box number is 886—Balboa, C. Z. 
"Although 1 am a very poor correspondent, I have often thought of you and la senora. Several da>-5 ago I was over at the Stranger's Club in Colon and I was thinking about the barn dance we at­tended there in 1941 during your visit. I have a sideline job over in Colon as a trade consultant to the Chamber of Commerce. We are undertaking to establish a Free-Port at Colon. 
"Tv*o years ago I left the government senice and am in private business in Panama. In March, 1946, I married a native girl and we have a son about 3 month3 old. 
"It is about time for the Hochreiters to take another balmy cruise down this way. Let us know in advance." 
We think we met the future Afrs. Harrington at the N. D. of New Orleans cocktiul party fol­lowing the Tulane game several years ago. Joe had just come up to the states, with guests, for a viut and dropped into the party. Thanks for keeping in touch Joe, and many best wishes from Mr. & Mn. Scribe on the charming wife and the future half­back! Wish we could return to the Stranger's du b with you! 
Christmas cards came along from several of the '35 crowd but only one carried a message. It was from PAUL GUARNIERI. Says Paul in part— ^ 
"Presume you and the wife are in good health and ^ sincerely hone so. As for me I'm still single but not for long—Log Chapel will soon take a whipping." 
Good luck, Paul—it's about time >-ou got on the bandwagon. You've got to leave your money to some one in a few years! 
ART CONRAD sent us a dipping from a Chicago l»aDer iust as we were starting to write the column. We read that BOB DEVANEY'S fatiier died the first of the year. Mr. Devaney, a nationally known steel expert, had recently retired as assistant mana­ger of district operations for Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corp. We extend the sincere condolence of the class to Bob whi is now the "Rev. Robert" and is pastor of the Nativity Church in Chicago. 
The Hochs had the pleasure of entertaining the Rauchs and the Coj-nes during the holiday season. We gave you the latest bulletin on BILL COYNE our last time at bat. RUFE RAUCH (remember the Shakespeare dass, gang?) is on a year's leave from 
N.D. and is teaching at Saint John's College in Annapolis. We hear Rufe and Beryl's son. Bill. i". a student at N.D. now. 
A long letter came from FRANK HOL.-VH.AN. It was too good to keep since it was loaded with Army game weekend dope, so I am shooting it on to you. 
"I received the current issue of the ALUMNUS the other day, and noticed that you did not have much news on the Army game. I would have written ^ you right after the game, but I thought tha: you V would have plenty of reports on the rally, etc. 
"Louise and I took the two bo>3, age 1 and *''/^ to Chicago before the game, leaving them with my sister for the day of the game. On the way to Chicago we stopped - at N.D. for the first time in five years, walked around the campus and the sta­duim. John Frank, Jr. insisted evcr>' student we passed must be Johnny Lujack. We chatted with Professors PENCE and BARTHOLOMEW, but saw no one else whom w-e recognized. 
"BILL RYAN and his good wife Elouisc enter­tained us at lunch at their home in South Bend, and we had a fine bull session. As perhaps you know Ryan has left the manufacturing subsidiar>* of As­sodates Investments, Inc. and is now back with ihe parent company a:: Assistant Treasurer. He is really headed for the top. 
. "The rally at the Stevens was a fine idea, bu: the management didn't worry much about those reser­vations they advised us to get so far in advance. We had a great time, seeing many of the fellows we had not seen before—since graduation. CHARLIE FEHR, now operating his own business in Spring Valley, 111. was there with Mrs. Fehr. JLM HAMIL­TON, about whom I have given you periodic re­ports was the leader of a stag group of '35ers. JACK PRENDERGAST and TONY CROWLEY were ^ in that gang. BILL GUIMONT was holding forth W at another table. CRONIN was busy of course. I compared notes with my fellow accounting ma­jor, RAY OAKES. BOB HENNEBERGER was dashing around with a large megaphone which seem­ed to be servini: no useful nuroose except to disturb the peace in the Old South Room downstairs. 
**Also at the rally we had too brief a report on BERNIE O'BRIEN'S football career and his family. JOE COLLINS, ex '35, and his wife were at our table. Like m>'self Joe has put on weight, hut is enjoying life, dividing his time among his family, his work, and law school at night. JOHN GROOS gave me some pointers on bank examining—he is an ex­aminer in Iowa. 
"'The only difficulty with the rally was that we didn't have long enough to talk with the guys and their wii-es, particularly their wives. Saturday eve­ning after the game we had dinner with DANNY McFADDEN. ex '35. and PHIL HEINLE and their wives. Danny is with Anierican Can in Philadel­phia, and Phil is back in East Orange as an execu­ti\-e with Elizabeth Arden, having resigned from American Can. Wc had a fine evening with them. Inddentally, we seem to meet Phil everywhere, sev­eral times in N. Y. C , once in Philadelphia, once in Washington, and now in Chicago. 
"Some of the fellows were conspicuous by their absence such as HOCHREITER, GRAVEL, BROD-A ERICK, JACOBS, RYAN, etc. JACOBS wTote me ^ a few days before the game that he was not going 
Volume 26, No. 1, February, 1948 

to be able to make it although he had planned on it. He is still in the general insurance business in Alex­^l andria. La. GRAVEL was awaiting his fifth arrival or rU bet he would have been there. BILL (FRANK) RYAN stayed away for the same reason. JIM HAMILTON was also expecting another heir. 
"On this same trip we spent a few flayi with my mother in Galcsburg, III. We had a fine evemng with JOHN "ROUNDY" POGUE and his wife. They have a fine family, and Roundy is going into the soft drink bottling business in the near future. EDDIE GRAHA^( Is doing very well in the insur­ance business in Galesburg. JACK HALLBERG was married not long ago, and according to latest re­ports is an accountant stationed near Detroit. TOM GRAVES has a position in a civilian capacity attach­ed to a general's staff, and at that time was expect^ ing momentarily to be sent to Europe. 
"RYAN told me "RED" MARGRETT had just been given charge of one of his company offices. I believe it was in Yonkcrs, N. Y. 
" I hope that some of this information will be new to you. Louise and I will have to find another game now that Army has dropped out of the picture. We have been considering the Na\-y game so we may see you there sometime. We attended the Pitt game this year and Navy last year, but none of them will be the attraction that the Army game was." 
We appredate your "blow by blow** on the Army game week end, Frank. Sounds like ever>'one had a "big" time. Certainly wish we could have been with you. 
JOH.N' B. BEYERER Is doing social work in Tallahassee, Fla. He is living at 537 N. Murphee St. CoUegc VUIa, Fla. 
And now a note about the class secretary. HOCH was chairman of the National Conference on Social Welfare Needs and the Workshop of Citizens Groups, which \%ere held in Washington, D. C , Jan. 26-28. The Conferences were sponsored by the Commission on Health of the National Social Welfare Assembly. Representatives of 80 citizen groups interested In lo­cial welfare in six fields, education, health, housing, recreation, social security, and special services for children and youth, attended the conferences. Catho­lic organizations represented included the Catholic Daughters, Catholic Inter-racIal Council, K. of C , N.C.C.^r., N.C.C.W., and St. Vincent de Paul So­ciety. 
JOHN S. PETTENGILL is back in the Panama Canal Zone as swimming instructor at Balboa High School. His address is Box 886, Balboa, C. Z. 

FRANCIS A. YEXCK, 6818 Nordi Ashland, Chi­cago, 26, III., is assistant field director in charge of veterans' claims for the American Red Cross. 
1936 Joseph F. -MonsfxelcL National Broodcasting COM 30 Rockefeller Plaza, Radio City, New York, 
N. Y. 

MARIO PEIRONI was elected city judge of Mun­cie, Ind., last November on the Democratic ticket. 
VINCENT J. AUG, 406 St. Paul Bldg., is prac­ticing law in Cincinnati, O. 

FRED CARIDEO has been appointed personnel manager of the Chevrolet-Muncie, Ind.> plant. He was transferred from the Flint, Mich., plant of the same company. 
Dr. HENRY A. STAUNTON, who received his ^LD. from St. Louis University In 1940, has opened an office for general practice at 3023 Mishawaka Ave., South Bend 
1937 F^ank f. Reilly. MacNoir-Dorland COM 254 W. 3l8t St. N. Y. C. 
From FRANK REILLY: The linotype operators at the Ave Maria Press will breathe a sigh of relief when they discover the brevity of this piece, which as another way of say­ing the mail was awfully light this month. Lest that be construed as ingratitude to the considerable num­ber who so thoughfully sent Christmas cards, letters, etc., let me hasten to reassure that my opening remarks were not aimed in their direction—naturally. 
Frist prize money of the month in the letter writing contest goes to VINCE HARTNETT, wh* crammed the following red hot news in a letter con­taining five short paragraphs, no more no less: 1) Vince became a papa on De c 12. when wife. Doris Rehm Hartnett, presented him with a seven pound, six ounce daughter at Lenox ICU Hospital; 2.) the Hartnetts moved into New York's new Peter Cooper Village apartment development Nov. 1; 3.) Vines is an associate editor for Outdoor Ufe. Whew! wait 'tU I i;et my bre.ith back. In addition, I learned by means of a 'phone call reply to 'X^ncc's letter that he authored an article on the Christophers that appeared in the December issue of the Holy Name Journal. Vince had been with Outdoor Ufe about two and one-half weeks when I spoke to him. which would mean that he went on the new job De c 8. His address in Peter Cooper Village is 541 E. 20th St.. New York 10, N. Y. 
Another letter, or rather I should say "the" other letter, came from Father JOE ENGLISH. MM. He sent a Christmas card and a note, to which I responded and was rewarded for my efforts by a letter from Joe. Before quoting excerpts of Joe's letter I should like to point out that our sacredotal classmate is director of the MaryknoU house at Bed­ford, Mass. Joe sa>-s he is not in charge of the no­vitiate but continues the work of promoUng the cause of Mar\-knolI. which he carried on so success­fully here in New York and its em-irons. 
Joe WTUCS: ". . . I'll be glad to remember BILL SHARPS dad in my >fass. [Bill's father died in December] 
"VINCE HARTNETT seems to be 'lost' someplace —probably up in the hills somewhere writing a best­seller. . . . We're kept pretty busy up here (with) churches, schools, etc.—same kind of promotion work as in New York. Only trouble is there's more terri­tory to cover: (all of) New England, with the ex­ception of Connecticut^ Of late, about 300 fellows a year are entering Mar^'knoll—thank God." 
At lunch the other noon with JUSTIN McCANN and JIM CAWLEY. I learned that BOB McCLAIN of our illustrious class is devoting most of his work­ing hours to selling space for the Haire Publica­tions, with which both Justin and Jim are afiBliated. Justin was in Chicago early in January for the Houseware Show, so I imagine he and Bob got to­gether to exchange notes. 
The Christmas mail was productive of cards from the follovring: TOM and HELEN HUGHES; AL­LAN, IDA and ALLAN BRIDE, Jr.; RUTH, ED and jnLMY HOYT; JACK, ANN, JOHN and PA­TRICIA ANN HURLEY; PEG and HERB KEN­YON; MARY and MARK LONERGAN, and LEE and BEN SCHERER. AL BRIDE'S card, post­marked Springfield, Mass., was a pleasant surprise. I think he's with the Bond clothiers there. Check me if I'm wTong, Al. Also received was a Christmas message from F.\THER BOB LOCHNER, C.S.C.. the essence of which was ihat the secret of living is in loving. It makes a wonderful Christmas message and Is one that I've been carrying around in my pocket to show or rather remind some of our more cynical citizens what brotherly love and love of neighbor really means. 
Among the *37ers attending the Jan 14 meeting of the Notre Dame Club of New York were: HAR­RISON JOSEPH PIERCE, who has the Hires root beer distributorship in Westchester county; JOHN CAVANAUGH of Sharpe & Dohme Co.; BILL FO­LEY, assistant district attorney of Kings County (Brooklyn); ED HOYT of Vicks; TOM HUGHES of Continental Can Co., and your scribe who is compelled to report that he was elected assistant secretary of the club. Ed Hoyt's brother, JACK, was elected president. Spcalung of club presidents, classmate JOHN FARRELL HURLEY, like the '47 football squad, scored early and often (photogra­phically) in the last issue of the ALUMNUS, He de­ser\es it, however, because of the fine job he has been doing with the N.D. alumni group in Schenec­tady. 
JOE SCHIILING, E. F. Drew Company's super-salesman of synthetic detergents, reported in at the office the other day on what's what in the cleaning and chemical field. 
Another of our classmates who seems to be makii^ a pretty large name for himself, unintenUonalty, of course, is FATHER PATRICK EPYTON. C.S.C., whose Christmas program on the Family Hour con­sisted of a recitation of the Rosary on a coast-to­coast radio hook-up. Aside from the fact that Father Peyton was able to secure some of the biggest namev in radio and motioa pictures without cnsloii y credit Hoes, etc.. the id n of redtinfc the Rosary on the air on a nation%ride Inroadcast certainly leeflis to verge on the miraculous. To those oi yoa lAm were fortunate enou ^ to hear the program, asjrdiing say about it is superfluous, hut if yoa missed it., set hold of the copy of Tim€ magarine reviewing the program. . 
FATHER FRANCIS L. SAMPSON is ch^Oain of the 187th Gti. Inf.. 11th Airborne, in Jqiaa. He h<dds the rank of captain. His addiisss is APO 468, c/o FcBtmaster, San Fraodsco. 
Tlie Acfanira] Fanagut Academy at St. Peter dmig, Fla., has as its director of athletics JOHN E. KEL­LY. Jr. 
PARKER SULLIVAN is the traffic superinten­dent of the Lexington Tdephone Co.. Lexington, K.T* 
Three times in 40 years Loras CbUege of Du­buqucj la., has bad undefeated teams, and each had been coached by a former Notre J)ame star. TIw first was in 1916 with GUS DORAIS at the bdm; in 1922 by DR. EDDIE ANDERSON; and the p^it season by WALLY FROMHART, who led the school through nine triumphant contests. Wally formerly coached Mount Carmel High school in Chicago. 
PAUL FOLEY, a copywriter for MacManus, John & Adams, an ad agency in Detroit, is writing na­tional copy for Cadillac and Pontiac 
WILLIAXf R, FOLEY, of 2215 Newkirk Ave., Brooklyn 26. N. Y.. is the assistant district attOTney of Kings County, Brooklyn. 
1938 Bdmld A. VmUoiH^ 4323 MaiU* UdU Bd« Ballimen. Md. 
10-Yecr Reunion 
June 4-6 

Fran HAL WILLIAMS: It's taking time, but we're gradually bearing hom all tbe classmates. Ibis month we faave two first-times, DR. JOSEPH C. CLIFFORD and PAT McCARTV. 
First, JOE CLIFFORD, who is now a dentist and living at 265 Cburch St., New Ha\-en 10, Conn. He. writes: 
**l'm really ashamed to admit this is my first letter to you. The new AI.UM.NUS arrived this week and I Rot quite a kick out of reading about the '38 boys so maybe you'll be interested in what my brother JOHN and I have done since graduation. That's another excuse I had for not writing—I al­ways thought brother John was going to do it. 
"John is now with Mandel Brothen in Chicago; it looks like he will make the Mid-West his home. John and his wife (Gertrude Heinz, St. Mary's, '39) have two wonderful boys. Both of us got into the service in 1942, with the kid brother outranking me plenty—he was a lieutenant, 1 was a T/4. 
"The most recent news of the New Haven Clif­fords is the arrival of a baby girl, our first bom just before Christmas. As yet we have no place to live so the in-laws are puttii^ us up. After gradu­ating from pre-med I landed a job with the Upjtdui Comiiany as a detail man in pharmaceuticals. I worked the Jersey City territory until I was drafted. 1 was placed in a medical detachment and sent to Fort Ethan Allen in Vermont, a cold, cold spot. I was classified as limited service because of a punc­tured ear drum, and kept at the fort. It was there I got the chance for dental school through the 
A.S.T.P. program after being turned down for med­ical school because I was too old. I guess dentists are a hardier group because age didn't enter into this program. Georgetown accepted me, and I started in the accelerated program in January, 1^4. Our class was discharged for the convenience of tbe Government at the end of the freshman year. We could cither continue %vith our stnifies or stay in the Army. Because 1 could get avustance throu^ the 
G.I. Bill I stayed on. In the meanthne, I got a job as a waiter at the Warttman Rok Hotd. I aba fot married. One day last spring I waited on DR. TOM HUGHES who was in town on a vist. Tom and his wife came out to the house and we had a long chat. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Guess that's the first time a w-aiter at that hotel ever asked one of his customers out for the evening .. . I graduated from Georgetown in June and have been practicing for four months. . . . 
"DR. JIM CORCORAN' is making quite a name for himself in Washington and it won't be long be­fore he*ll be a leading specialist. Jim left Washing­ton, just after I arrived, for a resideno* in Cleve­land .. . I'd like to hear from BUD XfACKIN, and . . .** fSccreiar>''s note: sorr\'. can't make out two otlier names.] 
I'hanks. Joe. for a swell letter. Com: again. 
And now P.AT McCAR'H' writing from Central Catholic High School. Toledo 8. O.- He sa\-s: "I was sitting here in my office reading the .ALUMNUS when I saw TOM HUTCHINSO.V'S question about leading family nicD in the class of '38. Tell him he's close, but not on top. While I was at St. .Ambrose in Davenport with my old roomie. ENXIO ARBOIT, we both added number five to the list. .After a year in the corn country I brought my family back to the old home town. This is anly a short hop to N.D, but I seldom have an opportunity to get away. I did get to the Army game, but had car trouble on the way and got there just two minutes before the kick-off. I did" manage to see HARVEY FOSTER, BOB WILKE. STEVE SITKO and a few others. If I can find a baby sitter next spring IMl be at the reunion.'* 
Thanks. Pat. .And let's have another letter soon. Then there was a short note from FATHER TOXY GOMES, who is an assistant at St. John the Baptist, 344 County Street, Xew Bedford, ifass. Father Tony already is making plans for the com­ing football season. In passing he mentions that he attended several of the games last fall, meeting sucn men as F.ATHER JOE R.\CE, PAUL LEAHY and LEO KEXXEDY. 
Xext, our number one correspondent, DOX HICK­EY, who kicks through with four more notes. He reports that JACK LEADBETTER. of the Bend, entertained ED S.N'ELL and JOE MOORE over the .Array game week end . . . TEX H.AGGER, JOHX TAGXER and JOH.V MOXAHAX were spot­ted at the Xorthwestern game . . . TOM QUIX­L.AX is transferring to an eastern university to con­tinue his law studies . . . Don made the trip out to California for the USC game. He saw VIXCE DUGG.AX at the .Alexandria Hotel, and at the ptc­game rally at the Hotel Biltmore he met "T­BOXE" M.AHOXEY. GEXE VASLETT, PETE SHEEH.AX, TOM BOXD, "ROU.XD-UP" KELLY. JOE KUHARICH. and ALAURY KEXXEDY. 
And now for the Christmas cards: CH.ARLIE and Betty CALLAHAX: the TOM HUTCHIXSOXS; Mary, J.ACK and Jackie CLEARY (17 Barnum St., Taunton, Mass.): Dorothea and H.AL LAXGTOX (1418 North 57ih St., Milwaukee 8, Wis.); JACK, Ginnic and Krisiic SOLOX; BUD, Katherinc and Tommy SHERWOOD; JOHX. Rosamond and Shar­on KELLEY: Afarcelie and ED BARXETT; Libby and JACK ZERBST (Libby's hand is hard to de­cipher, but I think their address is Rue .Adolpho Pin­heiro. 1084. Sanio .Amaro. Sao Paulo. Brazil); FATHER PETER SIDLER (Portsmouth Priori-. Portsmouth. R. I.), and CHARLES and Ellen BRO­SIUS (Mrs. Brosiui writes. "Did you know Charles has left Catholic L'niversity? We are now on our way to bring Virginians. He is working for a con­struction company whose chief occupation is apart­ment units. He really likes his work . . .") . 
That winds up the month's correspondence. Xow for a few words about the coming ten year reunion (and it just seems like yesterday I was eating Mmc of that dining hall fish). JOHXN'Y O'CONNOR, the senior class president, will dig out his old gavel and serve as general chairman of the reunion, assist­ed by two committees—a general committee, and the South Bend committee. The mails have been held up by assorted blizzards, floods and an anemic tor­nado from Texas so we haven't the names of these committees at hand, except for the name of DOX HICKEY who will head the South Bend committee. Don and his coworkers had a meeting late January* to get the ball rolling locally. We have faith in the men we know are working feverishly over all the details—registration, entertainment, refreshments, etc. etc 
SWEDE BAUER, you know, has offered the fa­cilities of his farm for a picnic. That will be just one of the highlights so make plans to attend. To prod you on. to remind you. and to beg permission of your wives to let YOU ;)ttend. we plan to do quite a bit of campaigning through the mails. That costs money. It will have to come from you. If you are you have looked forward to it for ten years—how about forking over an inflated dollar to help cover the cost of postage, stationer\% I>T>ing, and printing. You'll be repaid at the reunion—in fun, the sight of old faces and the sound of those old, old stories. I'll give a fifty cent dgar to the first man who sends his dollar in. Because the treasurer has not yet been appointed, send the money to JOHN C. b'COXXOR, 103 East Washington Building, In­dianpolis 4, Ind., or m^-self. In all fairness I must point out that I'm not bonded. Oh" yes, one more thing: Western Union money orders accepted. 

There's just one other thought on the reunion and that comes from Don Hickty. He writes that we ought to pile up some Mass cards for those class­mates o( ours who died in World War II. 
WALT MARSHALL is coach of football at Ca­nisius College, BufTalo, N. Y. 
HEXRY WRAPE is doing graduate work at the Harvard University Business School. 
DICK K.AXE, 2743 Girard St., E\-anston, 111., is an LB.M. salesman in Chicago. 
JAMES R. CALLAHAN* is the treasurer ol Jack & Heintz Precision Industries, Cleveland. His home address is 3258 Yorkshire Rd., Cleveland Heights 
18. O. JOE KUHARICH has been appointed head coach of football at the University of San Francisco. An assistant of ED McKEEVER last year at the uni­versity, he succeeds Ed, who has taken over the 
head coaching post of the Cliicago Rockets, AU-America pro league team. 
THOMAS E. NAU is sales manager of the United Boiler Heating and Foundry Co., 4909 Hohman Ave., Hammond, Ind. 
HENRY BERNBROCK is manager of Henry C. Lytton & Co, in Quincy, 111. 
BILL SHERID.AX was elected to the board of directors of the Coca Cola Co. of Panama, in the Republic of Panama. 
10^ 0 ^^'^^"^ PeCoursey, 1917 EUta­
• '^' beth. Kemsas City Z Kansas 

EARL BROWN', recently coach at Canisius in Buffalo, has been named head football coach at Auburn in Alabama. 
HUGH BURNS, athletic trainer at N.D., has been named "Trainer of the Year," it was an­nounced by John E. Noonan, secrctar\* of the Amer­ican Football Trainers' Association. 
LOUIS A. RADELET, a member of the faculty at N.D., has been appointed executive director of the South Bend-NHshawaka Round Table of the National Conference of Christians and Jews. He will continue teaching in the Department of So­ciology. 
P.AUL KELLY \-isiied Panama in December. 

E.ARL M. ZERBE is employed as an engineer at the Mishawaka plant of the U. S. Rubber Co. 
WILLIAM P. MAHOXEY, Jr., resigned as assist­ant attorney general at Prcscott, .Ariz., to enter pri\*atc law' practice. The former Notre Dame track coach served as a war crimes prosecutor in the Pacific while a naval officer. 
During the Christmas season. Father LOUIS F. McKE.AN said a Mass for the repose of the soul of each of his classmates who died in service. Father McKean*s mail address is Box 93, Winne­mucca, Nev. 
GEORGE B. MORRIS, Jr., and his wife adopted a boy and named him Geot^e Bader Morris, III. Bill is in the Canal Building, New- Orleans 12, in case you beat me there. 
That's about all the correspondence to hand, gents . . . consider the minutes accepted as read. NOW, how about contribs from the rest of the congrega­tion? ParticiUarly notes and hopes about reunion. Here it is February (March?: printer's note) as you read this . . . June is right o\*er that income tax hump .. . so if you get any rebate stick It in the kitty for the trip to the Bend. An>body else willing to follow Chicagoan JOHN O'SHAUGH­planning on the reunion—some of you hax-e told me ^ NESSY'S (10 So. LaSalle) lead and serve as a •• Xational Training School for Boys and is doing 
clearing center for reunion plans? How about a  
local headquarters in Boston, New York, New Or­ 
leans (Ah there, Dreux, de la Vergne), Denver,  
St. Louis, San Francisco or L. A.? Maybe FRANK  
LEAHY could get Michigan for the spring scrim­ 
mage . . . the weather might even be cool . . .  
but it ought to be worth twice the cost to see  
how much fatter, balder, and henpecked old Joe  
Schmoe is than you are, you lucky boy. Come on  
now, gang—get in there and slug. The '28s are all  
hyped up about their 20-year kaffee-klatsch. Are we  
gonna let them beat us—at their age?  
WHO'S WHERE—Don't forget that my offer still  
holds—I'll supply the address of any old chum, '33  
vintage, whose whereabouts you're interested in.  
Just drop me a line giving the name of the friend,  
debtor, prospect—I'll be glad to send you his latest  
known address. One of these issues I'm going to  
run a list of '33s who have gone underground, and  
see if we can't dig up addresses on all hands.  
See you in June—  
ALEX S. WILSON is athletic director of Loyola  
University in Chicago.  
ED McKEEVER, who resigned as head football  
coach of San Francisco University, after giving it  
its most brilliant season in histor>% signed a three- 
year contract to coach the Chicago Rockets of the  
All-America Conference. The Rockets lost their fran­ ^  
chise in the league last season after losing fourteen  \_J  
games and winning only one. The new owners have  
given Ed full authority to pick three assistant  
coaches. He came to Notre Dame in 1941 as one  
of FRANK LEAHY'S assistants and took over  
the head coaching job in 1944. In 1945 and 1946  
he was head coach at Cornell.  
An "emergenc>' plan" for lax incentives to build­ 
ers in order to relieve the housing shortage in  
two years has been presented to Congress by  
TIGHE E. WOODS, national housing expediter.  
Tighe told the joint Congressional committee inves­ 
tigating the housing shortage that the plan, which  
involves tax adjustments to builders who agree to  
build large developments at reasonable rentals, would  
make it unnecessar>* to extend rent control bevond  
March 1, 1950.  
1940 Robert G. Sanford, 4218 N. 17th SL, MUwaukee 9, Wis.  
From BOB SANFORD:  
After a not-too-brief absence from these pages we  
ha\-e managed to glean a few interesting para­ 
graphs for this issue. By we I mean Mary L.u. my  
wife, and I. She has spent months pointing out to  
me that our class column has been the smallest in  
ths ALUM.VUS.  
Wc have sent out a few cards requesting \-arious  ^ \  
members of the class to '^GET THAT NEWS TO  • '  
SHORTY." Of course, we can't send cards to cver>-­ 
one in one month, but we do hotie to have some  
definite news concerning ever>'one in the das'; within  
the ncx: year.  
Our class president, HARRY BOISVERT, came  
through w-ith a ver>' fine letter. He is secretary of  
the Notre Dame Club of Washington, D. C. Listed  
a? a member of the Board of Governors was J. R.  
"PAT" GORMAN. However, the important matter  
at hand is Harry's letter: "Quite a few of the bo>-s  
in our class decided to settle down in Washington  
and this will give you an idea of just what they  
ars doing.  
"LEO BEVER is now Brother Lawrence Bever  
and is studying for the priesthood at the Domini­ 
can House of Studies. JOE BURNS is a student at  
Georgetown Law School. PAT GORMAN, the un­ 
lucky fellow, teamed up with yours truly to form  
the law firm of Gorman and Boisvert. JOE HEN­ 
NESSY is an architectural designer for one of the  
local firms. CLIFF LETCHER is doing a fine job  
with the FBI. FENTON J. MEE is in the Marine  
Corps, ser\ing with the office of the Judge Advocate  
General. TOM O'REILLY our track star of old, is  
an attorney with the Solidtor's Office in the Depart­ 
ment of Agriculture. DAVE REIDY, another track  
man, is studying law at Georgetown and working for  ^  
the Ci\il Aeronautics Authority. PHIL RYAN, who  [^  
got his master's degree in 1940, is an executive with  
the American Red Cross. BOB SHE.\ is with the  

some part-time studying at Catholic University. ^ 1 "In the way of out-of-town ncu-s, JOHN HENE­^' BRY has his own firm in Chicago called Skymotive, 
Incorporated. He is one of the best in the business. Incidentally, I saw his picture in the South Bend paper at the Army game. BILL COLEMAN is chairman of the board of the firm of Coleman-Pettersen Corp. in Cleveland. WALT WUEBBOLD is president of H. Wucbbold Company. BUD BER­NARD has his own lumber company in Youngs­lown and has two children. JERRY FLYNN is not far from here. He is director of publicity at the Naval Academy and doing a first rate job. WALT FLEMING, down in Texas, is the class ol 194U's bid for the alumni Board of Governors. I cer­tainly hope he raake^ it." 
That certainly was an interesting letter, Harr>% and wc are happy to know that we have someone in Washington keeping track of the news for us. If any of you care to write Harry, he wiU icccive any mail addressed to the Noire Dame Chib nf Washington, D. C. 
HENRY ARNHTAGE writes from 122 Lakevlew Ave., Haverhill, Mass. He wTote a very interesting letter, making comments alxiut his reactions to Boston and New England after M:r\-ing his stretch in the Army. Henry sa>3: "I graduated from medical school in December ol 15)43, got 18 months hospital training, did some time in the Army and came home early this year. Since then I've I>ccn totally dis­organized. I want to be a surgeon when I grow up so it's back to the hispital in spring. Meanwhile. I 
^j hang my hat in the Pathology Depi. at Tufts Medi­
^ cal School. Tm still single, underweight and fright­fully lazy. Those who ought to know say that I look about the same as I used to. That "used to" gets me. 
"LOU CENNI is the only classmate I've seen in a considerable length of time. One can see hi; gooti face at Worcester City Hospital, morning, noon and night; and at my last viewing he was bearing up w-ell in a hard job. In connection with the recent and glorious Array game I recall briefly meeting JERRY O'DOWD, PHIL SANDiLMER, and JOE KLVE­ALLEY, '39. and brother. TOM. all doing nicely." 
Now we have heard from the New England sec­tor, and I'm sure we enjoy hearing from our class­mates. Hank is off to a good start and we expect to hear from him again soon. 
^fATT GONRI.VG sent a note from West Bend saying: "This was never published in the ALUMNUS because ol the war, etc. I was married in 1943^ and my wife's name is PhylHs. We have a daughter 2'/j years old named Ann Marie and another daughter seven months old named Lynn Louise. I am now working for the B. C. Zicgler and Company at West Bend. This company deals in real estate and associat­ed financing business." 
Matt also mentions that he has not seen any No­^ *« Dame men recently, but will keep me posted on ^ any ne%\^. Wc appreciate your interest. Matt, and 
will be looking forward to your future letters. 
DAVE BERNARD gives us first hand information regarding the Southern Cal game and promises more news later. Dave sajTi: "Los Angclcj is still amazed over the Notre Dame team that crushed Southern California. I' don't believe I've ever seen a time when all the sports writers gave so much credit to the winner. This «as the only college game I have seen and the wait iras \*ell worth the while. 
"In brief my activities arc as follows: became a civilian at the start of 1946 and have settled down lo real estate and property management." 
Wc have ended up on the ^Vcst Coast after cov­ering the country- quickly and look for^rard to the letters wc will be receiving in the future. 
Before I pass the following news on to you I must apologize for not getting it into print quite a while ago. This will never happen again and I hope those who wrote me will understand. BE.V S.AELI wrote from Holy Cross Hospital in Salt Lake City, Utah. Ben saj3: "I was married Feb. 15, 1947, at the Cathedral of the Madebine in Salt Lake City. I am at the Holy Cross Hospital there and am speciattzing in obstetrics and gynecology. 
« 
"My wife is the former Lt. Ollie B. Hall, Na\y Nurse Corps, stationed at the Oakland Naval Hos­
pital; a fonner North Carolinian, a rebel marryiii.g 
a yankee. 
"After leaving Notre Dame, I was graduated from St- Louis Universitv School of Mcdidne in No\-em­ber, 1943, along uith PHIL DAUGHERTY. ROY PINELLI, JIM KENNY, and CHUCK ZEGIOB. 
"I interned at St. Albans Naval Hospital, St. Al­bans, L. I., N. Y,, where I met my wife. We tan into each other after that at \-arious stages of our na\'al service, both state-side and at sea. 
"During my travels in the ser\'ice and after I met several Notre Dame men, but only a few I can recall now. The first one I remember was JERRY DONOVAN in New York City while I was intern­ing. He was in the foregoing stages of being sent overseas. Haven't heard from him since. Last sum­mer during my trip to Oakland I met R^VY ZALLER and JACK PROPECK in Los Angeles. The latter is happily married and has two children. Ray was still a bachelor profoundly wrapped up in his experiments with photoelcctroiiics." 
Ben reminds me that he did get the news to ••Shorty," and I am forced to admit that this ume f didn't get the news published immediately. Thank you, Ben. When you write the next time I will act much faster. 
Received two notices some time ago, but here they arc: "Grisanti, Fedor & Grisanti announce the oi>cning of their office for the general practice of law in Cleveland, Ohio." The Grisanti boys arc ALFRED C. GRISANTI, '31 and BOB GRISANTI of our class. 
The news around Milwaukee is not very plentiful, but I want everyone of you to know that we now have a daughter in the Sanford family. Her name is Pamela Mary, and we arc now a very happy crew of three. JIM KARR is now in business for himself and is a consulting engineer with the firm of Lisiak & Karr, Inc. NEAL GLEASON is practicing law in Milwaukee. BUD LINNEHA.\ has finally found a place to live in this town, well, at least within ten miles of town, and is working for Lindc Air Pro­ducts. Bud would like to hear about the activities of his former engineer classmates. DAN IIUSHEK has left Milwaukee and is now working for his former room-mate, TOM McCARTHY. 
Here's a letter from CHRISTY' FLi\NAG.-\N: 
When the new year rolled around, I resolved that as soon as I had any ND gossip passed my way, I would send it along to you for publication. Class news has been vcrj- scarce, as attested by the ALUMNUS each month, and one would think that wc graduated in 1840 rather than 1940, but our class did have an overabundance of "speakers" and not too many writers. Perhaps a few of the im­mortals of the St. Ed's A. C. w\\\ get on the old ball and make the class of '40 section something worth reading in the future. 
The big reason for this letter can be summed up in a single man's name—Frank Leahy. Wc have a small organization in Kingston (N. Y} called the Kingston Athletic Association and our last guest speaker happened to be that great personality from the N.D. campus. We had a turnout of 350 to see and hear the Old Master and I must say that he really gave us the lowdown on the team this year. 
I attended the supper with BOB ORTALE, *39, and my young brother, Michael, who lives with the hope that some day he will pull on a N.D. football jersey. 
BOB SANFORD'S wife writes: 
Received a card from DAVE BERN.\RD and a note in which he s-iid that Los Aniteles Is still amaz* ed over the Notre Dame team that crushed So. California. Dave became a civilian at the start of '46 and hns settled down to re^l estate and property management. 
PAUL MORRISON is working with his father in the John J. Morrison and Sons Company. They have opened new quarters in Lynchburg, Va., and Paul will be in charge of the business machines. The firm anal>-zes present equipment cfiiciency, utiliza­tion of floor space and record filing systems, and will represent nationally known manufacturers of office equipment. 
JOE THESING is living in La Grange. III., with his wife and two duaghters, and is working for ChevToIet Motor Division. "After getting out of the nav-y I coached at Xavier Univ. in Cipcinnati for a year and decided to get out of coaching. I certainly don*t regret the mov-e and we are very happy here. Saw quite a few games this fall and spent Anny week nd in South Bend with HOW­ARD ROHAN and JACK BRODBERGER, Godn­nati boys. Saw many others from our class, too. ' Since beiofC here I have spent some time with DON SACKLEY and TAD HARVEY. Don just lost his (dder brother. Jack, a short while ago. He has two little ones and Tad has one—to date.'' 
That is the extent of the ne%vs for this issue, but wc three Sanfords would certainly like to have more to pass on to you next issue. You who have read this, far are the ones who can help to re-activate this column. My present address is 4218 No. 17th Street, Milwaukee 9, Wisconsin. Remember: "MEN OF '40 GET THAT NEWS TO SHORTY." 
BILL F.\Y resigned his position with the Oucago Tribune sports department to become sports editor of Collier's magazine. 
DR. CHRISTIAN F. RISSER Is practidng medi­cine in Phoenix, Ariz. His address is 338 E. Dun­lap St. 
DR. JOHN C. KELLEHER is another men^ber of the class of '40 who is practidng mei^cine. He is on the staff of the Kings County Hofipital, Brook­lyn, N. Y. 
RICHARD F. AMES is a gephj-sidst with the Texas Co., in Farmington, N. M., while JOHN D. COUGHLIN Is in the petroleum products business in Minot, N. D. 
John W. Pcrttenoa. ]r^ 5530 Dor­1941 Hagtoa RcL. PHtabttrgh, Pa. 
CHUCK FARRELL has been busy coaching and teaching at Phoenix Technical School, Phoenix, Ariz. He is just settling down in a new home. The father of two sons, he—and his wife—were expecting a third child when he wrote. 
JOSEPH R. STEPHEN is advertising manager of the Longmont, Col., Times-Call. 
DON TIEDEMANN had two big e%-ents in Jan­uary. A son, his second child, was born, and he received a law degree from Harvard. He received a master's degree In Businss Administration from Harvard in 1&I6. ED BISSET and FIO LOPARDO of the class of '41 also received law degrees from Har\'ard In January. 
1Q^ ^ Wiltiam E. Scanlon. Pullman Sor-
IT" M Sugg x^y^ £ SaviiigB Banlc 400 E. 111th SU Chicogo 28. 
PAUL -K. O'MALLEY is employed as an ac­countant by the California Oil Co., Whitney Btdg., Suite 824, New Orleans, La. 
NEIL McCARTY, who will be getting married in the very near future, is attending Han-ard Law School. 
1943 Edwcsd C Bonay. 1723 beqneis AT»„ Dabeit Mdi. 
S-Yeor Reunion 
June 4-6 

Dr. ROBERT P. NENNO, who recei«d his M.D. from Loyola Uni\'cr5ity last year, has been ac­cepted for a three-year fellowship in psychiatry at the Unl\-ersity of Minnesota. 
AHCHAEL J. FITZPATRICK, whose home ad­dress is 1052 Clive Ave., Whittier, Calif., is n sales engineer in Los Angeles. 
Lt. Col. CH.ARLES H. D.\YHUFF, Jr., is at the Armored School, Fort Knox, Ky. 
JOHN J. RIEDL, chief chemut and techm'cal director, is at the Goodyear Rubber Plantations, Rengaro, Johorc, Malaya. 
JOHN J. ANDRES Is an architectural drafts­man with Eggers & Hlggins Architects, 542 Fifth A\-e., New York City. 
Capt. JOHN C. BENNETT, who recei\-ed an 
will be assisted by BOB MADDOCK, who also JOSE CARDENAS was a member of the Panama assisted Ed at San Frandsco University. delegation to the Inter-.American Architectural Con-Charles "Buddy" Lewis, '43, who ference in Lima Peru, last October. It was the ,-^ was killed in action at Bastogne, 
GEORGE THOMPSON is an advertising copy­second time during tlie year that Jose represented ^-^ writer for the General Electric Co. in Schenectady, his countn' on international missions. His address 
France, while serving with the 101st 

N. Y. is Box 3383, Panama, R. P. 
Airborne Division, is another Notre 

CHARLES A. WAECHTER is running a grocen' 
Dame man who has a post named I. D. Usina. 219 S. Scott St., South 
store in Canton, O. 
for lum by a veterans' organization. 1947 Bend, 2. Ind. Post No. 5343 of the Veterans of JOE CHRISTE.V received a master's degree from the University of Pittsburgh Jan. 2!). He is a We'll start this month's roundup with a letter 
Foreign Wars, Wildwood Villas, N. 

chemical engineer with the Gulf Refining Co. in from HANK SLAMIN which just missed the last J., was named the Charles Lewis Pittsburgh. issue of the ALOMNUS ...".. . Since living here Post in 1946. in New York I've seen a couple of N.D. grads . • . Schaeffer, P.O. Box Saw TO.NY EARLE Y and SQUEAK G.ALLAGHER 
One other Noire Dame man lolled 104 c I««»es W. 
at a Giant football game. . . . Talked to BILL 
in action, Ted Knusman, '38, is 369. Schenectady, N. Y. 
BRACKEN over the phone and learned that he, known to have had such on honor RUDY ANDERSON and TOM MULHERN had 
Dr. FREDERIC G. ALAURER, Jr., is practicing 
paid him. The Chicago post of the joinedthe active Naral Reserve and in the subs at 
medicine at Station Hospiul, Dayton, O. His home 
that. .. . I notice that you are in the agency Amvets has been named for him. address is 1817 Lakeuood, Lima. O. 
business. I also am in the game, Icirning and pick­THOMAS F. X. V.ML is an electrical engineer ing up some valuable information. . . ." with the Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corp.. 
Thanks to Hank. . . . And, s.iy, we need more M.D. from Northwestern in 1945, is still on active Poughkeepsie, N. Y. 
letters. 
duty u-ith the Army Medical Corps. He is stationed at Station Hospital, Rapid City Air Field, S. D. BILL PFISTER ol Michigan City, Ind., and Miss 
1946 
BILL KEENAN is attending Harv-ard Lau* School. Emy Lou Fargo of Portland, Ore., announce plans for a sprii^g wedding. Bill is busy with the U. S. 
J.ACK.-STEW.ART writes from Madrid, Spain: 
 Lynch, 15724 Granville Slicing Machine Co. at the home office in l-i|iorle, 
"It seems like a long time since last I sent in 
1944 John A. 
Rd., Detroit 23, Mich. any word from over here. But when one has put in Ind. From JOHN LYNCH: 75,796 miles of travel in a calendar year there isn't BOB GRIFFIN tells us he will soon be at St. alwav-s letter-writing time. 
Michael's College, Winooski Park, Vt., to teach D.W- DOWNEY ii-as married to Miss Doris Herr­business administration and do graduate work in mann in Amarillo, Texas, in Sept. They are now fiv-"Recently heard from CHUCK KL.AUSE that he economics. He passes on the following notes: JIM ..^ 
ins in West Palm Beach, Fla., where Dan is jn was flying down to Puerto Rico (San Juan I pre­KELLY is in school in Switzerland; J.AY WAR-^ 
a law firm. sume) on the day after Christmas. EMIL SLOVAK REX is an auto dealer in Huntington, W. Va.; 
wTotc from Honolulu that he is coaching at the 
BILL DUNN gets his nied degree in June from U. 
J.\CK WOELFLE is living in Merrick, N. Y., and Punahou School out there. JACK TENGE seems to is sales super\'isor for the Biirry Biscuit Corp. l)c kept busy with cocktail parties in St. Lou'is. 
of Illinois and then starts his internship in Phila­delphia General Hospital; DON CISLE paid BILL LARRY STAHL. an ensign in the regular Navy, BRACKEN a New York visit over the holidays and 
"Of my 14 months in Europe I have spent ap­proximately five of them in the Balkans and in the 
is stationed at San Diego presently with the sub­found Ilimself snowbound in the "Blizzard of '47:" marine, USS Entemcdor. JACK NE.ARY is engaged to Kathleen Healy "f 
Soviet Union 'proper.' I doubt if anyone in the Slates really appreciates freedom. Unless one has 
South Orange, N. J.; TERRY WILSON is in the W.ALT B.ARRY is also regular Navy and is taking seen the dread of a police state he can have no law school at Texas University; BOB SKOGLUND 
flight training at Pensacola, Florida. conception of the wonders of American democracy. \v3s on campus recently; MIKE is 
 the AIIERN The high prices in the Slates arc merely relative. 
BILL TALBOT accepted a position with Mo­situated in the attorney general's office in Hart­tion Picture Productions in Cleveland. In Moscow, rather en route there recently, I bought 
ford; JOHN L.AVERY at the Northwestern law three cheese sand%viches and two bottles of beer— 
school. JOH.V W. McKE.N'.VA, 8C Grove St., Elizabeth the price was equivalent to ?U.82, at the diplomatic 2, N. J., is employed as an engineer in the Tech­rate of exchange. In Budapest a dinner runs about I got most of this news at a reunion feting Bill nine dollars; in Belgrade it amounts to eleven dollars. 
nical Service Division of the Standard Oil Co. of Pfister at Roger's in South Bend one Saturday night 
N. J. with DON CLAEYS, BOB GRIFFIN, JIM BR.\UN, 
"Tliat's about all for now. I have a few days in 
BILL PFISTER and HERD DAIKER. 
the States at the end of this month and then back 
DAVID T. McLAUGHLI.N is doing sales work in Vallejo, Calif. An automobile body parts design­
to work in Paris. Herb said JOHN KELLY is with the F.B.I, in er iwth Studebaker in liend, S. "Does anyone know where ART MOSHER is?" Portland, Ore.; ED QUINN at Columbia's grod 
 Corp. South OTIS ROMINE is residing at "U N. Scott St. 
school; . PAUL FRANK is working in Rochester, 
N. Y.; at Harvard graduate school arc HANK 
ELMER ANGSM.AN, who was the. leading ground 
PAUL W. HURD is studying law at the Wash­HOOVER, FR.ANK MILLIGAN and ED STROOT; 
gainer in the National Professional Football League 
burn Municipal University Law School in Topeka, DENNY SCULLY at Northwestern grad school: 
in 1946 and was well up among the leaders in 
Kans. Dr. DANIEL J. ROURKE is practicing med­DAN O'DONNELL and RUDY ANDERSON arc 
1947, played an important role in the Chicago 
icine in Greenwicli, N. Y. in the Patent Office in Washington. Cardinals' 28 to 21 victory over the Philadelphia 
JOHN ii. WILKE, Jr., is a sales engineer in 
Ingles for the National League championship on In Chicago over the holidays I saw JULI.AN .AT-St. Louis, Mo. His atidress is 2 Brighton Way. Dec 28. He made two 70->-ard touchdown runs to WATER and BILL BERK, and during my vsca-.^ score 12 poinu for the Cardinals. tion in St. Augustine, Fla. saw CARD OLIVEROS. ^ JACK TERRY has been appointed supcr\'isor bv Please help us out with some news—even a post-
CHUCK BARTLETT is attending Har\-ard Uni­
the I2th Republican Ward Committee in S\Tacu5c, . card. 
versity Law School. His address is 55 Trowbridge St., Cambridge, Mass. Capt. CLINTON D. FIRESTONE, Jr., is now The new coadi of the Chicago Rockets, All-JACK HASTEN is employed by the Caterpillar stationed at Bergstrom Field, Tex., with the 313lli America pro football league team, ED McKEEVEK. Tractor Co., Peoria, III. Maintenance and Supply Group. 
N. Y. 
Make Your Reservations in Advance for the 
ANNUAL ALUMNI REUNION 
June 4, 5 and 6, 1948 

We want you to come to the Reunion, especially if you belong to one of the five-year reunion classes, and we want you to be comfortable and "at home" after you get here. But, if we can let down the family hair a bit, it's becoming tougher and tougher to take care of everybody for the Reunion, when we don't know in advance how many are com­ing. You, from your o\s'n experience, can understand why. Preparing rooms and meals are two big elements of course. 
So will you help us this year by notifying either your Class Secretary or your Reunion Chairman, or the Alumni Office, by May 1 that you definitely will be here? We'll be more than grateful for your cooperation. 
— ARMSTRONG AND DOOLEV 
Alumni Director 
[Continued from page 17] 

"Before closing this letter, may I present my reactions to the meeting itself. It was very evident that the meeting and its various sessions were very well planned and pre­pared beforehand — yet it was most spon­taneous, and democratic. No "steamroller tactics" were used, in fact free discussion on all points was not only welcomed but encour­aged, even from the new members of the Board. I liked the ^vay in which openings were made and welcomed for suggestions, recommendations and even criticisms. There certainly was no indication of wishing to have a mere "Rubber Stamp" Board of Di­rectors. All of this contributed to making the sessions not only interesting but most informative as well. Believe me, I feel high­ly honored to have become a member of such an excellent and efficient group of alumni ..." 
1948 Tfcfref Plan 
[Continued from page Iff] 

In connection with paragraph 3 above, we should like to point out that for some of our away-from-home games, our guaran­teed alumni orders potentially could claim our entire allotment. Hence it is possible that the non-contributing alumnus may not receive application forms for all games. For the same reason, tickets in addition to his guaranteed order may not be available to the contributing alumnus for some of the games on foreign fields. Limiting the con­tributing alumnus' order to two tickets for his personal use will relieve this situatio.T somewhat, we hope. 
Further concerning games away, it is hoped that the two-limit on guaranteed tickets may enable us to continue to supply the .Mumni Club most vitally concerned (the Indianapolis Club for the game with In­diana, the Los Angeles Club for Southern Cal., etc.) a limited allotment of tickets over and above individual alumni orders to en­able them to take care of a limited number of friends of the University and of the clubs concerned. We realize that the club in the immediate vicinity of an away-from-home game is a natural target for ticket requests, many of which cannot be denied. This hoped-for result is particularly desirable in view of the importance of alumni and alumni clubs in the eventual success of the Notre Dame Foundation. With the former guarantee of four tickets to the contributing alumnus, continuation of such a policy would be impossible. Even under the new plan, sale of tickets to Clubs en bloc is not guaranteed, but the possibility obviously be­comes more favorable. 
Fewer and fewer institutions favor their alumni in football ticket sales, but it is Notre Dame's intention to do so as long as we field a football team. Alterations and revisions arc inevitable as graduates pour forth each June, and to that end, suggestions for future methods of distribution are not only wel­comed, but seriously solicited from Notre Dame men. We'd like to go on record, too, in an expression of gratitude to all of you for the patience and courtesy you extended to the Ticket Office in 1947. Compared to the thousands of tickets dispensed to Notre Dame alumni, the complaints were infinites­mal; and of those, almost all were reason­able. Our thanks for helping to keep at bay, for another year at least, the boys in the white coats! 
Class of 1898 50-Year Reunion 
June 4-6 

Prof. Aekermann Dies In Iowa on February 1 
Francis X. Aekermann, retired professor of mechanical drawing at the University of Notre Dame who spent more than fifty years at the University, died Sunday, Feb. 1, in the St. Anthony's Home for the Aged in Dubuque, la., according to word received at Notre Dame. He was buried from St. Grcg­orj-'s Church, Lafayette, Ind., on Feb. 3. 
Prof. Aekermann, aged 82, originally came to Notre Dame as a student in 1887 after his father and uncle, two distinguished ar­tists, had decorated the interior of the new .Administration Building at Notre Dame fol­lowing the destruction of the original Ad­ministration building by fire in 1879. 
Prof. Aekermann originally was engaged at Notre Dame as an instructor in free hand drawing, meanwhile continuing his studies as a student at the Um%'ersity which resulted in his receiving a Bachelor of Science de­gree at Notre Dame in 1904. 
From the time of his graduation from Notre Dame until his retirement in 1938, Prof. Aekermann served at the University as Professor of Mechanical Drawing. From 1904 until 1932, Prof. Aekermann, who was noted for his artistic penmanship, inscribed the names of graduates on diplomas of every student graduated from Notre Dame during that 28-year period. 
A native of Lafayette, Ind., Prof. Aeker­mann was honored on February 18, 1937, at a testimonial dinner by the Lay Faculty Club at Notre Dame on the occasion of the fif­tieth anniversar}- of his arrival at Notre Dame. 
The University of Notre Dame was repre­sented at Prof. Ackermann's funeral by Rev. Christopher O'Toole, c.s.c. Rev. John J. Rcddington, c.s.c, and Prof. Pasqualc M. Pirchio. 
SALES MANAGERS WANTED 

The Williamson Heater Company, manufacturers oi warm air fumoces. Cindnnati, is looking for district tales managers. Preferably, they should be between 28 and 38 and married, and should o{ coiuse have definite soles ability. They need not hare any actual sales experience. Troining provided, ^teresied and qualified applicants should write to Walter H. Wuerdeman, The Williamson Heoter Company, Cincinnati 9. 
Gift Ideas 
-all with a Notre Dame identification 
Blankets $15.75-$is.75 
Pennants  $1.00 up  
Banners  $2JO to $10.00  
Jackets  pjo-$10.00  

Sweat Shirts 
$1.75 -$2.25 
T'Shirts $1.00 Drinking Glasses 
$3JO • $4.00 a dozen 
Compacts $3.00 to $10.00 Lockets $3.75 to $5.00 Bookends $235-$6.00 Scapular Medals 
$2.25-$2.75 
Official Notre Dame Rings 
Write fw Special Folder 
For further information, or to place orders, write 
N. D. BOOKSTORE 
Notre Dame, Ind. 

^inecto^ of Clubs and Their Presidents » » 
ARIZONA—PHOENIX—John P. Joyce. MO. 830 Forest Ave.. Tompe. Ariz. TUCSON—Ted W. Witz. '29, Box 628 

ARKANSAS—Burt L. Roberts. '16. 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock (secret.iry) 
CALIFORNIA—LOS ANGELES—Thomas R. Ashe, '31, Globe Oil Tools Co.. Los Nietos, Calif. 
NORTHERN—John W. Carey. '41, Banna Center for Boys. 7S5 Market. Rm. 402, San Francisco (San Francisco are.i) 

COLORADO—DEN^'ER—Dr. D.aniel G. Mon­aghan. '38, 440 William 
CONNECTICUT — CONNECTICUT VALLEY — Floyd R. Richards. '42, Radio Station WTIC, Hartford (Hartford area) ' 
NAUGATUCK VALLEY-D. Frank Murnane, 
•32, Summit Rd.. Prospect, Conn. (Water­bury area) 
SOUTHWESTERN—John J. Galla. '33. 303 
SprinB St.. Bridseport (BridBeport area) 

DELAWARE—Arthur A. Baum. '36. 1310 Van Buren St., Apt. 3-C. Wilminfrton. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBU^ —WASHINGTON — Daniel Culhane, '23, 3540 39th St., N. W. 
FLORIDA—Georco A. Brautieam. '29. 53S N. E. S5th Terrace. Miami. Fla. 
ILLINOIS—FOX VALLEY—Dr. Philip C. Hein­ming, '29, 399 Vincent PI., Elsin, 111­(Aurora-Elgin area) 
.TOLIET—Joseph V. Kirincich. '33. 306 Ruby 
SL 
PEORIA—D.iniel J. Hecht. '44, 407 Barker 
Ave. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY —Donald A. Hen­nessy. '37. Catholic Community Hish School, Sterline, III. (Rockford-Dixon area) 
SPRINGFIELD — Nicholas C. Amrhcin, '39, 
1623 S. Fourth St. 

INDIANA—CALUMET DISTRICTT-Daniel D. Lynch, '23. 34 Midway Court. Hammond. Ind. 
EASTERN INDIANA—Charles F. Vogt. 207/, 
E. Main St , Muncie (Muncie area) 
FORT WAYNE—Bernard T. Kearns, '29, 903 
Pasadena Drive 
INDIANAPOLIS—Patrick J. Fisher. '36. C16 
Indiana Trust BIdg. 
MICHIGAN CITY—Hugh L. Burns, '39. De­
partment of Athletics. Notre Dame, Ind. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Ind. .and Mich.)— John E. Mclntyre. '31. 1514 B. LaSalle Ave., South Bend (South Bend area) 
TRI-STATE (Ky.. Ind. and III.)—Francis J. Henneberger, '31. 502 N. Hart St., Princeton, Ind. (Evansville-A'incemies area) 
AVABASH VALLEY—D. Emmett Ferguson, '32. 721 N. 9th St.. Lafayette, Ind. (Lafay­ette area) 

IOWA—DES MOINES—George J. rflanz, HI. cx '43. 4S19 Ingcrsoll .^ve. 
DUBUQUE—C. I. Krajewski, '16. 1775 S. 
Grandville Ave. 
SIOUX CITY—Robert A. M.-inning, '36. 2719 
Nebraska St. (key tnan) 
TEI-CITIES—Alfred T. Erskine. Jr., '37, 712 Grand Court Davenport Iowa. (Davenport-Rock Island-Moline area) 

KANSAS—EASTERN­KENTUCKY—Willi.-un J. Woerner. '38, 208 May­fair, O.'tford Place, (Louis\'illc area) 
LOUISIANA—NEW ORLEANS—Jules K. de la Vergne, '38, 5811 Hurst 
NORTHERN—James R. Nowcry. '29.- P.O. Box 1545. Shreveport 94 (Shreveport area) 

MARYLAND —BALTIMORE—Lewis J. O'Shea, 
•31, 307 S t Dunstan's Rd.. Homeland. 

.MASSACHUSETTS—BOSTON—John V. Moran. 
•30, Badger. Pratt Doyle & Badger. 53 State St. Boston. 

MICHIGAN—BERRIEN COUNTY—William H. Downes-, ^28, 60 N. S t Joseph Ave., Niles (Niles-St Joseph-Benton Harbor area) 
BLUE WATER DISTRICT—William L. Wil­son, •42. P.O. Box 295, Port Huron • (Port Huron areji) 
CENTRAI^Dr. Edgar J. Hermes, 'IS, S2S 
N. Logan St.. Lansing (Lansing area) 
DETROIT—Joseph A. Bach, •26, 505 Park Ave., c/o Detroit Lions 
GRAND lUVPIDS—Joseph F. Deeb, '31, 600 Cambridge Blvd. S.E. 
HIAWATHALANT> (Mich.-Wis.)—Norman C. Bartholomew, ^15, 225 Cleveland Ave.. Iron Mountain. Mich. (Iron Mt-Marinette area) , 
IRON RANGE—Robert E. O'Callashan, ex '43. 
fi35 AfcLeod Ave, Ironwood, Mich. 
JACKSON—Lyman H. Hill, Jr., 5205 U. S. 
127 S. 
SAGINAW VALLEY —Joseph C. Goddeyne, 
•11, 2276 Carrol Rd., Bay City, Mich. (Sagi­naw are.a) 

MINNESOTA—Robert M. Rogers, '43, 949 Grand Ave.. S t Paul (Twin Cities area) 
MISSOURI-KANSAS CITY (Mo. and Kans.)— Thomas M. Reardon. '39. 1104 W. 76th Ter­race, Kansas City, Mo. 
ST. LOUIS—Fred C. Weber. Jr., '36, 6639 
University Drive 

MONTANA—Bernard Grainey, '43, SOI 12tli Ave.. Helena. 
NEW JERSEY—CENTRAL —Michael J. Balog. '34. 316 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy (Perth Amboy area) 
NEW JERSEY—George J. Melinkovich. '35, 
27 Leo Place, Newark (Newark area) 

NEW YORK—BUFFALO—.Tohn I.. Hoelscher. '42. 174 Crosby Blvd.. Eggcrtsville. N. Y. 
CAPITAL DISTRICT — James J. Drislane, 
•38, 75 State St. Albany, N. Y. 
CENTRAL—Mark E. Mooney. ^26, 125 But­
ternut Drive, DeWitt (Syracuse area) 
MOHAWK VALLEY—Frank Donalty. 'Z\ 23 
Beverly PI., "Utica (Utica are:i) 
NEW YORK-John A. Hcyt Jr.. •SS. .S 
Whitehall Rd.. Tuekahoe. Westchester Co.. 
N. Y. 
NORTHERN—Judge Cornelius J. Carey, '30, 
12 Park St., Malone (Mnlonc area) • 
ROCHE.STER—William R. Bell. '25. 95 Ames 
St. 
SCHENECTADY—John F. Hurle.v. -Xl. 83 
Western Parlcway, Schenectady. 
TRIPLE CITIES—James H. Hogan. ^34. 42 Oak St, Binghamton. N. Y. (Binghamton-Johnson (?ity area) 

OHIO—AKRON—Paul A. Bertsch, ^29, 763 S. Jligli. 
CANTON—William H. Belden, •Se, 305 22nd 
St, N.W. 
CENTRAL — John J. (3annon, '30, 555 E. Broad St.. Columbus (&)lumbus area) OINCINNA'n—J. Walter Nienaber, '37, 2106 Alpine PI. 
CLEVELAND —Hugh M. O'Neill. '17, 544 
•Terminal Tower DAYTON—E. William Hoyne. "42, 205 Salem 
Avenue 
HAMILTON—Judge Harry V. Walsh. '31. 
Municipal Court 
LIMA—George Shanahan. '17. 432 W. Main S t 
OHIO VALLEY—Dr. William E. Ackermann, 
•33. 14 Edgewood St, Wheeling. W. Va. (Bellaire-AVheeling area) 
SANDUSKY—John J. Millott, '27. 913 Os­
borne S t 
TIFFIN—Fred J. Wagner. '29, i\V~ S. Wash­
ington St. 
TOLEDO—John R. Malone. '42, 4805 Summit 
St , Toledo. Ohio 
YOUNGSTOWN—Clarence T. Shechan, '40, 
The "Vindicator." 

OKLAHOSIA—TULSA—E. W. Leroux. '33, 1724 
S. Madison 
OKLAHOJLA. CIIY—Haskell Askew, '31, 827 
N. W. 20th St 

ORE(MN—Robert G. Molin, '40, 316 W. Alder St., Portland 
I'ANASIA—William Sheridan. '38. Box 605, An-con. Canal Zone. 
PENNSVLVANIA—EASTERN—Leo R. Mclntyre. ^ '28. 3004 Turner St , Allentown (Allentown-^' Bethlehem area) 
ERIE—James B. Dwj-er. '37, 4006 State S t 
HARRISBUKG—Francis C. Barbush. '37, 128 
S. 3rd St 
MONONGAHELA VALLEY — Edward J. Dean, '28, 11 Linden Ave., Monessen, Pa. (Monessen area) 
PHILADELPHIA—Charles A. Conley, '35. 
100 E. TurnbuU Ave., Havertown, Pa. 
SCRANTON—Louis J. Finske, '19, Gravel 
Pond No. 2. Clarks Summit, Pa. 
WESTERN—Lawrence J. O'Toole. '36, 425 
S. Aiken Ave.. Pittsburih (PitUburgh area) 
WILKES-BARRE—Gilbert V. Perry, '31, 190 
Wyoming Ave., Wyoming, Pa. 
WILLI.AMSPORT—Frank C. Hayes. '27. 820 
Erie Ave., Renovo. Pa. 

RHODE ISLAND and S. E. SIASSACHUSETTS— John J. McLaughlin. ^34. Mendon Rd., Chim­berland Hill, R. I. (Providence area) 
TENNESSEE—MEMPHIS—T. J. Foley, Jr.. •SS, 6666 S. McLean 
NASHVILLE—W. Kenneily Jones. "SO, P.O. ^i . 
Box 773 ^k' 

TEXAS—DALLAS—Walter L. Fleming. ^40, 4649 Bolfort Place 
HOUSTON—Robert C. Scoggins, ^24, 430 
Humble Bldg. 
SAN ANTONIO—Leonard M. Hess. '25, 201 
Stanford Dr. 

UTAH—Jack W. Gallivan. '37, 1017 Kearns Bldg., Salt Lake City 
VIKCINIA—Dr. Charles R. Riley, ^39, 3.^.08 Sem­inary Ave.. Richmond 22. 
WASHINGTON—WE.STERN—Charles F. Osborn, Jr.. •SS, COS Central Bldg.. Seattle (Seattle area) 
V.'EST VIRGINIA—Joseph F. Neenan. '41, 4012 Venable Ave., Charleston 
WISCONSIN—GREKN HAY—Harold L. Londo. 
•24. Sup't. Green Hay Water Dcpt 
LACROSSE —John A. Elliott, '25, 1420 
King St 
MILWAUKEE—Thomas E. Ili.xon, '41, 127 
N. 74th St . Milwaukee 13 
SOUTH CENTRAL —John W. Roach. '25. £|£ 
21I.~» Van Hise Ave.. Madison (Madison area) ^ ^ 











