The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
@ 
NOTRE 

DAME 
A BLESSING FOR I960 

See Father Hesburgh's message (overleaf) and picture story, 
"The International Atom" 


ALUMNUS 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORSE^ 
Officers 
FRANCIS L.LAYDEX, '36. Honorary President 
WILLIAM E. COTTER, JR., '41 President 
JULES K. DE LA VERGXE,'33 
Club Vice-President RAV-MOND W. DURST,'26 Class Vice-President LEO J. VOGEL, '17 Fund Vice-President




NOTOE 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary' 
Directors to 1960 
LEO J. VOGEL, '17 


DAME ©I 
286 Magnolia Place, Pittsburgh 28, Pa. RAYMOND W. DURST, '26 840 Lathrop Ave., River Forest, III. JULES K. DE LA VERGNE, '33 
413 Pere Marquette Bldg. New Orleans, Louisiana WILLIAM E. COTTER, JR., '41 

ALUMNUS 
114 Laurie St., Duluth 3, Minnesota Volume 37 Number 5 December * 195? © 
Directors to 1961 

Editor James E. Armstrong, '25 JOSEPH R. STEWART, '22 Kansas City Life Insurance Co. 
Managing Editor John F. Loughlin, '48 
Box 139 Kansas City 41, Missouri CHARLES E. ROHR, '30* Rohr's, ni l Chester, Cleveland, Ohio JAMES H . SHEILS, '35 



On the cover: 
McManus and Walker 39 Broadway, New York, New York , JOHN C. O'CONNOR, '38 

A BLESSING FOR 1960 1000 Fidelity Trust Bldg. _ Indianapolis, Indiana ^ 
Directors to 1962 

On October 5, 1959, following the Third 
JAMES J . BVRXE, "43 Byrne Pl>^vood Company 


General Conference of the International 
Royal Oak, Michigan PAUL J. CUSHING, '31 


Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna where 
Hydraulic Dredging Co., Ltd. 14th & Broadway, Oakland, Calif. 


we represented the Vatican, Frank 
WALTER FLEMING, JR., '40 Fleming & Sons, Inc. 


Folsom and I had the wonderful opportu­
P.O.
 Box 1291, Dallas, Texas ^ 

W.
 EDMUND SHEA, '23 ^ 



nity of visiting His Holiness, Pope John Third National Building 
Dayton 2, Ohio 


XXIII. In the course of our conversa­
Gliaimien of the 1959 Committees 


tion, I requested his special blessing for  E. _ Executive
W. COTTER 

J. K. DE LA VERGNE Club Activities 
R. W. DURST_ Class Activities


the University and all the members of its 
L. J. VOGEL 
alumni Fund, Foundation and Gifts


far-reaching family. He said he would R. W. DURST Preparatory •Sc/toofo 
L. J. VOGEI Placement and Job Counseling • give this special blessing with all his C. E. ROHR* Inter-Alumni Affairs 
J. R. STEWAtcT.J'restige and Public Relations 
J. H. SHEILS Religion and Citizenship

heart. For the Alumni, cherished and im­J. R. STEWART AND 
J. H. SHEILS Nominationsportant members of the Notre Dame fam­J. C. O'CONNOR Budget and Finance 
L. J. VOGEL Resolutions 

ily, the cover picture is a memento of 
*Deceased 

the occasion. 
• This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre ^ ^ Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat. ^JV tcr Oct. !, 1939, at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind. under the act of Aug. 24, I9I2. 

f^eace Prospects Prosper 
* Through 
Russian scientists and engineers visiting Argonne National Laboratory paused for a press conference featuring (1. to r.) Father Hesburgh, Argonne policy advisor; Prof. Vasily Emel­yanov, director of USSR's administration for atomic energy, leader of the Russian group; John A. McCone (LL.D. '59), chairman, U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, and Argonne Director Dr. Norman Hilberry, co-chairman of the tour with Fr. Hesburgh. 
THE /NTERNATIONAL ATOM 
It soon became apparent at Vienna 
incidents Were Averted When U.S. and Soviet that Prof. Emelyanov \vas in charge of 
nuclear development in the U.S.S.R., 
Nuclear Chiefs Met With a Vatican Chaperon 
I N HIS CHRISTMAS MESSAGE Presi­dent Eisenhower called for "open and peaceful partnership . . . between all peoples," and in his State of the Union message he reported evidence of "a somewhat less strained period in the 
•lationships between tlie Soviet Union and the free world." To many, in­cluding Notre Dame's president. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., the best evidence of this improvement is the gi'owing scientific cooperation be­tween the U.S. and U.S.S.R. in the exploration of the earth, space and — particularly — "atoms for peace." 
^I n his role as permanent Vatican representative to the International Atomic Energ)' Agency, Father Hes­burgh has had an opportunity to wit­ness this coopei-ation and more than once has had a part in bringing it about. Since the agency's 1956 organi­zational meeting in New York his papal authorization has permitted him a freedom of association forbidden to most delegates. He has used it dra­matically. 
At the early sessions Fadier Hesburgh was struck by the general aloofness to the Russian delegation. Resolving to make a break-through, he approached Prof. Vasily Emelyanov, a mild-man­nered delegate known to him only as a distinguished physicist and a mem­ber of the Russian Academy of Sci­ences. Prof. Emelyanov was touched by the attention, and a friendship grew, with frequent correspondence and ex­change of gifts. To shocked American delegates who reminded him of Rus­sian treacher)' Fadier Hesburgh i-eplied that as a Catholic priest he was aware of Communist atrocities toward fellow priests and Catholics, but that his faith taught hatred for sin and love for tlie sinner — especially for one's enemies. 
On top of the heavy water research reactor Chairman McCone and Father Hesburgh con­sult diagrams as another host. Dr. Walter Zinn, former Argonne director (back to camera), explains operations to Russian guests, members of the USSR Academy of Sciences. 
the Russian .counterpart of U.S. AEC Chairman John McCone. Amazement reached its peak when • Father Hes­burgh's invitation to a diplomatic Mass at the Cathedral •was accepted not only by the entire Soviet delega­tion but by representatives of all the Balkan satellites as well. The gospel was read by Archbishop (now Cardi­nal) Koenig in all the major confer­ences languages — including Russian— and its ideas were praised by a dele­gate whom Father Hesburgh knew to be a member of the Russian secret police. 
It remained to bring atomic chiefs McCone and Emelyanov together. An agreement was progressing in the next session to bring atomic know-how to all nations, but hopes seemed dashed by a series of diplomatic blunders. Somehow by-passed in invitations to the American reception. Prof. Emelya­nov made a speech bitterly denouncing American policies. Enraged, Chairman McCone delivered the crowning insult 
— refusal to attend the Sowet recep­tion. Father Hesburgh' and Frank Folsom attended both parties and got both men to admit their excesses. They agreed to meet in the "Vatican" suite on the morning of McCone's departine for the U.S. They had a friendly chat, followed by attendance at a second diplomatic Mass. P.S. The agreement was signed by the U.S.S.R. 
(Continued on page 18) 

Photographs used in this article are official photos, available through the courtesy of Argonne National Labo­ratory. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 
his representative in the contacting of 
the Local Alumni Clubs, a program^ 
from your 
annual, organized development of Club 

8dito rial Comment 
Alumni Secretary contacts with the University, advo­
"The mills of the gods grind slowly." 
This mill is no different in the above 
respect than others. The tliought stems from the recent meeting of your Alumni Board — the 12 loyal alumni, elected by you, who represent your interests in the planning and e.\ecution of an 
James E. Annstrong 
outstanding and growing alumni program. 
Board members are elected for three-year terms, and few of the major pro­grams initiated by the Board have ma­terialized within the lifetime of a given Board. 
To pay deser\-ed tribute to tiie work of this group over the years, and to give you some idea of the actual con­tributions made to the University and to you by tiiese representatives of yours, let me risk the charge of hom-blo\vdng and review some of the major areas of interest and action. 
1.
 One of the first programs to be launched by the Alumni Board was Universal Notre Dame Night, estab­lished in 1924. This occasion has be­come a major public relations channel for Notre Dame, and one of the most universally effective programs of any alumni association. 

2.
 Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sundaj', established by the Notre Dame Club of New York Cit>' in 1938, was changed from a Club function to a national program by the Alumni Board, and has been an in­creasingly powerful contribution to the development of religion and citizen­ship concepts in the American Catholic tradition. 

3.
 Placement was a concern of the Alumni Board more than thirt)' years ago, and under the repeated efforts and stimulus of the Alumni Board, the late William R. Dooley, '26, \vas de­tached from the Alumni Association to direct the University's first full-time placement and job counseling office in 1950. The rapidly growing program is 


now under the direction of Rev. Louis 
J. Thornton, C.S.C. 
4. The Alumni Fund was originally b^u n by the Alumni Board in 1929­30, under the stimulus of the late Frank Hayes. Under Alumni President Harrj' 
F. Kelly the program was reinstated as a permanent annual giWng program in 1941, and provided documentation and a solid basic structure for the Notre Dame Foundation which the University launched in 1947 through the Alumni Board, headed by the dvTiamic Harr)' G. Hogan, its presi­dent. 
5.
 In the mid-30's, the Alumni Of­fice was enhsted by the Universitj' registrar to assist in student recruiting. From this program the Alumni Board subsequently developed the Prepara­tor)' School Committee for high school \'isits, and the Universit)' now has a growdng national program of high school visits and personal interviews of prospective student applicants, directed through the Office of the Director of Admissions, Rev. James Moran, C.S.C. 

6.
 Most recent of the culminations of Board programming is the appoint­ment by Father Hesburgh of Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, to be 


An Apology 
Readers may have wondered why there are t^vo ALUMNUS issues for December, 1939 (one not forthcom­ing until nearly February, 1960), or why Volume 37, No. 6 preceded VoL 37, No. 5. The only explana­tion is a profound apology for the schedule changes, technical difficulties and procrastination on the part of the managing editor which delayed this issue, originally scheduled to appear in November, 1939. Although the publishing schedule is necessarily flexible (or erratic, if you prefer), there will be an attempt to deliver the ALUMNUS with a little more regularity in 1960. 
— J.L. 
cated by recent Boards. 
7.
 Local Alumni Club organization has been fostered by all the Boards, \vdth the outstanding development of the biennial Council of Local Club Presidents and the publication of the Manual for Local Alumni Clubs, i ^ suiting in the e.\tensive s>'Stem of ac­

8.
 Similarly, the Board has annual­ly advanced the development of the Class organization. By advocating a nominal, low-cost alumni contribution at Reunion to defray actual Univers^ outiay, the Board changed the informal loosely organized reunions held in con­junction with the Commencements to the major, separate annual Reunions of the 5-Year Classes which now bring 1,000 alumni back to live on the cam­pus for three days each June. The biennial Conference of Class Secretaries is a further implementation. 


tive  alumni  club  organizations  now  
numbering  175,  in  the  U.S.  and  
abroad.  

All of the above highlights repfli sent major programs. Meantime, the Board has concerned itself year in and year out with the publication of the Notre Dame ALUMNUS, the inaugura­tion of the Notre Dame magazine in 1948, improvement of office records, and ser\'ice to Clubs, Classes and in­dividual alumni, and the innumerable detail that constitutes alumni work. 
The Alumni Board has worked wfR tile development of the national Mono­gram Club and the Law Alumni As­sociation, to supplement alumni interest and actiwt)' in these special fields. It has worked wt h the Athletic Depart­ment to mutual benefit. 
Its latest project is the Alumni Self-Study Sur\'ey, which will be the basis for further development of a prognffc that has kept pace with, and often opened the \vay for. University progress. 
So, if one of your friends from the Alumni Board says to you in the dis­armingly modest way of Board mem­bers, "It doesn't seem like we get much done," think back to what you have just read. 
Your Board ser^aces, like so many in J the histor)' of Notre Dame, are thqm ' that cannot be bought, nor their values estimated by anything short of history. 
-J.E.A. 

Noire Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 
From the School Circuit and the Gears of Industry 
Two N.D. 'Wheels' Revolve in Rotary 
^OVERNOR JOHN A. LEMMER, '18 ' Mentor is a Master in Michigan 

District Governors Tour Service Clubs in their Areas 
Two alumni of the University of Notre Dame have been elected district 3pvemors of Rotary International, world-wide ser\'ice club organization. During the 1959-60 fiscal year they will visit each of the clubs in their districts to offer advice and assistance in Rotary ser\'ice activities and administration. 
Mark A. Ertel, 40, of Tipton, Indi­

ana will ser\'e Rotar)' clubs in the Indi­
ana area. A member of the Rotary 
Club of Tipton since 1946, he is a past Resident of that club. 
Strong in Scouting Circles 

Mark is plant manager of the Perfect Circle Corporation, automotive parts manufacturers in Tipton. Bom in Tip­ton, he is a director of the Tipton Com­munit}' Fund, a director of the Kiktha­>^enund Area Council of the Boy Scouts ^ America, and president of the Tip­ton Community Drainage Corporation. 
John A. Lemmer, '18, of Escanaba, Michigan, will assist Rotarj' clubs in the Michigan area. He has been a member of the Rotary Club of Escanaba since 1925 and is a past president of that club. 
John is superintendent of the Escan­' jfaa Public Schools. A native of Escan­aba, he followed his Notre Dame bach­elor of philosophy degree at the Uni­versity of Michigan, Ann Arbor, with 
a master of arts degree in 1925 and he received an honorary master of educa­tion degree from Michigan State Nor­mal, Ypsilanti, in 1948. 
Care for Crippled Kids 

He is a director of the Michigan So­ciety for Crippled Children and has been president of the Michigan Asso­ciation of High School Principals and the Michigan Association of School Superintendents. 
Rotary International encompasses 114 countries throughout the world. The 481,000 business and professional executives who are members of 10,300 Rotar)' clubs work together to advance the Rotary program of community-betterment activities, high standards in business and professional life and the • advancement of international under­standing, good will and peace. 
Offer Foreign Fellowships 

One of Rotary's contributions to the field of international relations is the Rotary Foundation Fellowship pro­gram, inaugurated in 1947 as a me­morial to the founder of Rotary, Paul Harris. Since that time, 1,196 young men and women from 67 countries have been awarded fellowships for a year of travel and study in 44 host countries. The all-expense grants aver­age over $2,600 and total more than $3,000,000. ' 
Rotary Fellows are chosen from ap­plicants sponsored by the Rotary clubs in their home towns, and selected for , their high scholastic standing, leader­ship qualities, interest in world affairs, and ability to make friends easily. They must be between the ages of 20 and 29 years old, hold a college or university degree and know the language of the countr)' in which they will study. 
GOVERNOR MARK A. ERTEL, '40 Industrialist in Cluigc in Tiwliaim 

Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 
A 
Minim Returns 
WHEN" THE TIME CAME to announce die awarding of the 1959 Laetare Medal to Deputy Under 'Secretary of State Robert Murphy, Jim Murphy (no relation), Notre Dame's director of academic publicity, sent a copy of his news release to Mr. Lincoln AVhite, chief of die U. S. State Department's news division. 
As State's news chief, AVliite is usually the "reliable source" or "State Department spokesman" cited in any international news stor\' with a AVash­ington, D.C., dateline. At his daily briefing sessions, held in a press cham­ber at State's Foggy Bottom head­quarters, the towering press officer reads or ad-libs his reports on the De­partment's positions and policies, state­ments and sentiments, while Washing­ton correspondents and newsmen from all over the world hang on ever\' word. 
Reading Mr. AVhite's letter of ac­knowledgement. Murphy was pleased to leam diat Lincoln White has a re­lationship to Notre Dame dating back to 1916-1917. 
Once Sent Packing 
AVhite wrote that he was very favor­ably disposed toward the Universit)', since he had lived on campus while attending the Minims, a boarding school for children in die primary grades, founded by Father Sorin even before the University was a reality but discontinued about thirty years ago. 
When Murphy wrote for details, AVhite replied that "my best recollec­tion is tliat I attended the Minims around 1916 or 1917. .. . I remember 

The chief of the U.S. State Department's news dii-ision, P. Lincoln ^Vhite (second from left), returned to a scene of his childhood to lecture on "The Problem of Publicity in Ameri­can Foreign Policy." Greeting him (1. to r.) are Prof. Thomas Stritch, head of the dept. of conmiunication arts; Prof. Stephen Kertesz, head of the Committee on International R^$ lations, sponsor of the talk; and Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C., acting director of the Not^ Dame Foundation. White, the State Department's prindpal press officer, received his early education at "The IVIinims," a former campus boarding school. 
distinctly that it was a verj' bitter winter, diat diere must have been a coal strike diat winter, because die Minims closed for several weeks and sent us all packing home. .. . I re­member this so distinctly because I did not go home to Cattanooga, Tenn., but radier to my grandmodier's in Cincin­nati. . . " 
Asked to Lecture 
It occurred to Murphy that a man of ^Vhite's experience in international press relations might be invited to lecture at Notre Dame. Accordingly, the former minim was brought to Notre Dame in November to lecture on "Problems of Diplomatic Publicity" under the auspices of the University's Committee on International Relations, just concluding a five-year study of 
U. S. diplomacy. 
The lecturer was introduced by a fellow joumalbt. Prof. Thomas Stritch, head of the Department of Communi­cations Arts. 
Early in 1959 Lincoln White, as chief of the news division of the De­partment of State, was nominated by the President of the United States to be a Foreign Service Officer of Class One and Consul General of the United States of America. This is, the highest classification of Foreign Service person­nel with the exception of Career Min­ister arid Career Ambassador. 
Prior to Mr. White's entry into the Department of State he worked for the Chattanooga A'ews, was research librarian on the staff of die United States Geological Survey (a branch of the United States Department of the Interior) in 1933, and in 1935 he joined die Agricultural Adjustmei^ Administration. In 1936 Mr. \Vhite went to work for Dr. John W. Stude­baker, then United States Commis­sioner of Education, as a publicist for the Adult Education Forum Program sponsored by the Commission. In 1937 he became a member of the staff of the House Comnuttee on Foreign Af­fairs and two years later entered the Department of State. ^ 

Press Experience 

Mr. White has served as press offi­cer for the United States delegations at the UNRRA meetings in 1943 and 1946 in Atlantic Cit)', and at Montreal in 1944; as chief press officer at the International Civil Aviation Confer­ence at Chicago in 1944; as speci^J assistant to the principal press officer at the United Nations Conference on International Organization at San Francisco in 1945 at which the United Nations Charter was written; as press officer for die United States delegation to the United States-British Common­wealth Telecommunications Confer­ence at Bermuda in 1945; as chief press officer for the initial meeting q^ the Boards of Governors of the Inter­national Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 
Monetary Fund at Savannah in 1946; « s press officer for the United States 
delegation to the United Nations conference on International Trade Or­ganization at Habana in 1948 and as 

Election Results 
press officer for the signing of the 
Treaty of Peace with Japan at San 
Francisco in 1951. 
Mr. ^Vllite lias also been assigned as 
press officer for tlie visits to the United 
States of Presidents Aleman of Mexico «^1947), Dutra of Brazil (1949), and Bayar of Turkey (1954). 
In 1953 Mr. \Vhite became assistant 
chief of the news division of the De­
partment. In November, 1955, he en­
tered the Foreign Service of the United 
States under the ^Vriston Progi-am of 
lateral entrj- as a Consul and Secretar>' 
of Embassy. He was made acting chief 
_of die news division in 1955 and be­cam e chief of the di\dsion in 1957. 
Spring Hill Grad 
Among the recent state occasions for 
which he has super\'ised press opera­
tions were the visits of Britain's Queen 
Elizabeth and Russian Premier Khru­
shchev, and the "sunmiit" talks at 
Camp David and in various capitals ^uring President Eisenhowers Euro­pea n visit and world tour. 
Mr. AVhite was bom in Chattanooga 
on April 11, 1906 and attended gram­
mar and prep school at Spring Hill, 
Mobile, Alabama, Dayton, Ohio^ and 
Chattanooga, Tennessee. He graduat­
ed from Spring Hill College (BCS) in 
1928. 
Mr. AVhite and his wife, the former 
Helen Hanson of Brooklyn, New York, fibside at 9303 Jesup Lane, Bethesda, Maryland. They have a son, Paul 
Lincoln, Jr. 

The election of four new directors of the Notre Dome Alumni Association has been announced as this issue goes to press. 
They are Maurice Carroll, '19, St. Louis, Mo., architect; George Connor, '48, television sports commentator and sales representative of Hoerner Boxes, Inc., Chicago, III.; William P. Mahoney, Jr., '39, Phoenix, Ariz., attorney; and Harry Mehre, '22, president of Sunny Isles, Inc., Atlanta, Ga., soft drink firm. Connor and Mehre won football monograms at Notre Dame while Mahoney was captain and later coach (1938­
40) of the University's track team. The newly elected directors, chosen for three years in na­tion-wide balloting by alumni in good standing, will be in­stalled at the January meeting of the Association's twelve-man board. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, will address the group and they will also hear reports by other University officials on the school's admis­sions, placement, development and athletic programs. A highlight of the meeting will be the election of new officers of the Association for 1960. William E. Cotter, Jr., assistant to the vice president of U. S. Steel's Oliver Mining Division, Duluth, Minn., is the retiring president. Secretaries of Notre Dame's graduating classes for the past fifty years will also convene on the campus this week. They will hear a preliminary report on Notre Dame's recent alumni self-study survey and attend a series of panel discus­sions on the various duties of the class secretary. Included on their agenda will be discussions of class organization, campus reunions, and the class news column in the NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS. 
Election details and illustrated stories on the meeting will appear in the March issue. 
Lincoln MTiite (before map), the man most frequently quoted as "a State Department spokesman" in news stories out o{ Washington, addresses newsmen from all over the world at one of his daily press briefings. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 
Kennedy in the Kremlin 
J. Walter Kennedy, '34 (left), and Mea­dowlark Lenion are shown the sights of Aloscow by their Russian guide as they stand in front of St. Basil's Cathedral. Walt is public relations director and Lemon a comedy star of the Harlem Globetrotters on their recent tour of Russia. 
By J. WALTER KENNEDY, '34 
IN THE PAST EIGHT YEARS I've visited 
30 countries of the world, mostly tour­
ing wt h the Harlem Globetr9tters on 
their good \vi[l trips to foreign lands at 
the invitation of the State Department. 
In each one of the first 29 lands visited, 
somewhere along the line I would run 
into a Notre Dame man. But while I 
spent eight days in the 30th country— 
the Soviet Union—there wasn't a fel­
low Notre Damer to be seen anywhere. 

Yet Notre Dame men would be well received in Russia, if the reception e.x­tended to this alumnus is any criterion. Russians are ver>' enthusiastic about sports and they are well informed about American athletics. When the inter­preter assigned to me discovered that I wzs a graduate of Notre Dame, he proudly informed me, in perfect Eng­lish, "Notre Dame has the finest foot­ball team in the United States — or is Oklahoma better?" I took on added stature in his eyes because of my knowl­ed^e of and association \vith Irish foot­ball. It helped to establish a verj­cordial relationship that had not e.xisted before. 
I went to Russia with die Harlem Globetrotters, for whom I handle public relations, on their very first trip to the SoNiet Union. The athletic facilities in Moscow, where we played all of our games, are simply fantastic. There is one atheletic area called the Lenin Central Stadium, two miles long by a mile and a quarter wide, that con­tains, among other faciUties, a soccer and track stadium seating 100,000, with 200 table tennis courts under the stands; an indoor basketball court which seats 15,000 and can be con­verted for hockey; an outdoor hockey rink with a seating capacity of 20,000; an 01)'mpic-type s\vimming pool, plus a second pool for %vater polo, with a seating capacity of 15,000; a "practice" track and field stadium that seats 20­000, plus 100 tennis courts, 50 basket­ball courts and a number of play areas for youngsters. 
Naturally, we were all very curious about religion in Russia. There is out­ward e\'idence that there is more reli­gious actixdl)' today than at any time in the past few years. Where there once were 103 churches in Moscow, now there are 53, of which one is Catholic, one Baptist, one Jewish and the otlier 50 of various orthodo.K reli­

gions. 
Fatlier Louis Dion, of Worchester^ 

Mass., the only American priest, has no 
church. He is restricted to his own 
three-room apartment for celebration 
of Mass and other ser\-ices. It was 
quite an experience to attend Mass in 
his apartment, in company with 
Meadowlark Lemon, die Harlem 
Globetrotters' star, and eight other 
people. Lemon and I received Holy 
Communion, and I dare say that never^ 
The mystification of Russian basket­ball fans at the antics of the celebrated Harlem Globetrotters was well publi­cized in American sports pages. Not so well publicized was the reaction of the touring Trotters to their Russian hosts, expressed in this story whicl^ Walt Kennedy promised,the ALUMNUS before the team's departure. 
A veteran publicist, Walt has spent the past eight years handling public rela­tions for the aptly named Globetrotters, accompanying the fabulous basketball clowns on good will tours all over the world. Following the example of his namesake in the U.S. Senate, he re-:k cently launched a career in politics which will be detailed in later issues. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 

jhss there been more reverence or ap­preciation of receiving than there was that morning, in the midst of the most anti-church anti-God government in e.xistence. 
Later in the morning, I attended part of the noon Mass at tlie Cathedral of St. Louis, the only Catholic church in Moscow. It was thrilling to see so many people in attendance, the church 
Jpeing about two-thirds filled. On the 
"vay we passed other churches, most of them filled. But those in attendance were older people, none under 50. There were no children and no younger people. Only the old practice religion in Russia. It is not part of the state scheme to allow religion to be part of the life of the Russian citizen. 
The Russian people were very friendly, although because of the lan­guage barrier there was little chance to converse directly with them. But in the small villages I had an opportun­ity to visit, alone, without the inter­preter or chauffeur assigned to me, the people were eager to share their simple food and to escort me through their shabby, though clean, homes and their far-from-modem light industrial plants. 
Moscow is quite modem on the sur­face, with wide streets and plenty of parking space and lots of room for ex­pansion. Their building program is fantastic — huge, modem apartment buildings going up at a breathtaking pace, replacing the slum areas that have been part and parcel of normal Russian living for centuries. The new apartments have tile bathrooms arid tiled floors, but the rooms are very small. -J 
There are over 1,750,000 TV sets in Moscow which has a total population of some .4,500,000. Sports programs and kiddies' shows are very popular. There are no bars, no night-clubs, no ; golf courses . . . and no dogs or cats. The latter two are not considered necessary because they are not pro­ductive and only consume. They are used in scientific studies and for farm work, but not as pets. 
The most unusual incident of the trip occurred on an afternoon when we were touring the Kremlin, which houses: most of the government offices and 
Although the Russians were cordial, time is not ripe, Alumnus suggests, ^ to organize an N-D. Club in Moscow 
Walt Kennedy (left) confronts N!kita Khrushchev (extreme right) inside the Kremlin. Next to Mr. K. is Abe Saperstein, on-ner of the Harlem Globetrotters, flanked by interpreters and the entire Trotter squad. 
many of the museums. As we were strolling around the grounds, three long black government cars s\vept by and one of the players yelled "Holy smoke, there's Khrushchev!" Sure enough, there in the back seat of the last car was the Russian prime minister. When it got about 50 yards away, the car stopped and out jumped Kruschy, who literally ran to the players, shouting in English, "Ah, American basketball!" 
These turned out to be about the only English words he knew, because he wasn't able to converse much more wthout an interpreter. He shook hands \vith each player and inquired whether they were enjoying their stay, etc. The prime minister apparentiy can turn the charm off and on like a faucet, because this smiling, twinkling, pink-faced, cherubic appearing man was not.the same one Americans know as the "Bloody Butcher." 
It was a fascinating experience, this trip to Russia, which turned out to be a nice place to visit but hardly a place one would %vant to stay very long. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 9. 
With Dedicated Egoism, Cheerful 'Martyrdom' in Jungle Exikf A Young Physician Has Stirred the Conscience of the West 
Ox A COLD AND MISERABLE morn­ing in 1944, pitiful band of re-at 
emits awoke Camp Dewey, the 
forbidding recep­
tion center at 
Great Lakes Naval 
Training Center, 
and set to the 
morose task of ap­
plying steel wool 
to the hopelessly 
stained decks of a 
dilapidated bar ­

Dr. Dooley racks. Mostly scared and lonely teen-agers from In­diana, Kentucky and Tennessee, they were stranded for several days in their rumpled ci\-\'ics and ducktail haircuts, waiting for their "boot" company to reach full strength. 
Morale was terrible until a skinny foreigner from St. Louis with a voice like a high-pitched saw began to estab­lish a reputation as the company clown. He volunteered to all (who couldn't have cared less) that his name was Dooley, that he had been one of the few authentic Irishmen at Notre Dame, that he was going to be a doctor, and that the U.S. Naxy was his personal oyster. Night and day he filled the air with wisecracks about his own bo\-ish pimples and callow con­dition. 
The "boots" were soon galvanized in cordial hatred for this brash, gold­bricking wiseacre. They didn't notice that their black self-pity, nameless fears and maudlin images of liome and mother had dissolved in irritation and wonder at the noisy young extrovert from Notre Dame. 
Thus did Tom Dooley applv emo­tional therapy and demonstrate his im­crring instinct for the right note in difficult human situations. 
Tom Dooley was assigned with the writer to Company 2133, commanded by a mildly sadisric CPO from Te.xas. He spent the first few days marching ofT company punishment and then transferred to sick bay as a hospital apprentice. He spent the rest of re­cruit training jovfully Jabbing needles into his hapless comrades, who by this time had mellowed . considerably toward Tom Dooley. 
SerN'ing out World \Var II as a pharmacist's mate and pre-med stu­dent, Dooley returned to Notre Dame for his bachelor's degree and went on to St. Louis Universit)' for his medical studies. He returned to the Navy as a medical officer just in time to take part in American efforts in embattled French Indo-China. When Dienbien­phu fell and the West agreed to par­tition witli the Communists, Dooley, now a lieutenant, treated tliousands in a historic naval accomplishment, the ' evacuation of a million North Viet­namese (mostly Catholics) by landing craft to Saigon and safetj' in the South. 
Returning to the U. S., Tom couldn't forget these helpless Southeast Asians. Describing his harrowing ex­perience in a best-selling book. Deliver Us from Evil^ he used his royalties to finance a medical expedition to Laos, a tiny monarchy surrounded by Com­munist territor)'. Scaling a mountain of red tape, he finally got permission from the Laotian government in Vienjr 
tiane to establish a jungle hospital at Nam Tha, in a steaming valley dan­gerously close to the Chinese border. He took along two young pre-meds from Texas, Dwight Davis and Ear! Rhine, and soon had 23 Laotian stu­dents and five Laos-trained nurses helping him. -Avoiding all political and religious preachment, he let his actions do all the talking and soor^: became known as "Dr. America." His success was proved through daily urg­ings by Peiping and Hanoi radio to "kill the American spy" and the escape of" 14.000 Chinese across the border. 
DR. THOMAS D001F{, EXASPERATING ANGEL* 
Surrounded by admirers on his recent return to lecture at St. Mary's, Dr. Dooley auto­
graphs one of his books for fellow sufferer Patty Bradley, daughter of Prof. F. X. Bradley, assistant dean of the graduate school. This was a second thrill for Patty, already invited 
by John F. Laughlin, '48 

by Boston's Cardinal Gushing to be his personal guest at Lourdes. 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 
Although the villages were constantly 

^larassed by Communist raids. Dooley enjoyed immunity by virtue of the vil­lager' veneration. Meanwhile, with Dr. Peter Comman­duras, Tom had founded MEDICO (Medical International Cooperation Organization), a non-profit, non-secta­rian, voluntary relief appeal, as a di­vision of the International Rescue Committee. It has sponsored medical 
-Beams in Cambodia, Pakistan, Kenya and Afghanistan, also supporting Dr. Albert Schweitzer in Africa, Dr. Gor­don Seagrave in Burma, an eye sur­gical mission in India and surgical teams in Jordan and Vietnam. In one year Dooley has been able to treat 36,000 patients' with $35,000, or less than one dollar per patient per year. Tom is proud of the fact that this has 
^ill been made possible, not by large gifts or government giants, but by small donations from thousands of Americans and by gifts of diiigs and equipment from doctors and pharma­ceutical firms all over the world. Tom's second book. Edge of Tomor­row, described the first adventures in Laos. AVith the proceeds he estab­lished a second hospital at Muong Sing. Communist threats became more serious, but just as rebel armies began to march Tom was called back to the 
U.S. by a series of crises, including ex­haustion, the need for further fimd raising and a chest injuiy that had de­veloped into malignant melanoma, or "black cancer." A further personal tragedy developed when a campus friend, sculptor Eugene Kormendi, died while Tom was in the hospital. Mt is characteristic of Dooley that, with a hole in his chest and only limited use of one ami after surgery, he finished a third book and undertook 50 speeches in 38 cities in a space of six weeks. The tour also included a nationally tele­vised testimonial dinner in Omaha, where he was presented Mutual of Omaha's Criss Award and a gift of 0*10,000 (previous winners include Dr. Jonas Salk and the developers of die "wonder" antibiotics), and appear­ances on such T^'' programs as "What's My Line," "This is Your Life" and "The Jack Paar Show." In each ap­pearance he dismissed all sentimental­ity with plugs for MEDICO and wise­cracks about his knees being grafted where most men have collarbones. In 
^ecember he returned to Laos to face perils which included die collapse of the government on New Year's Day. 
Doolev has often been criticized for 

MAN and the MOMENT 
Our New Club Ambassador Introduces Himself and Gives Some Advice to His New Clients 
By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donneil, C.S.C. 
It is with great pleasure that I greet each of you and your families. AVe are a family — the Notre Dame family. Our President, Father Hesburgh, has ap­pointed me to be a traveling member of the campus family :4 and to meet with you and your Clubs. In the past seven years I have had the opportunity of meet­
Fr. O'Donneil ing many of you. In the next few years I hope to meet all of you. And, where time permits, I will take the occasion to meet your families. 
The nature of my new assignment is one of ser\'ice. ^^'e list in our Alumni OflSce about 175 Clubs in all parts of this country and in foreign countries. Clubs, as such, are paper clubs unless there is actiwty. We know full well diat all Clubs are not of equal size and will not have equal opportunities for events and activities. Even so, each Club, to be vital, must be something and do something. My job is to help you, where possible, in working out your plans. My dream, and it can be made real, is to have our Notre Dame 
brashness, egoism and a martyrdom complex. He was even accused " of incurring cancer for tiie publicity. Actually he despises words like "hero" and "martyr," but he realizes the pro­motional value of projecting his flam­boyant penonality, calUng for "not your warm sympathy but your cold cash." Perhaps the greatest drum-beat­Clubs the best in the world. 

Notre Dame Clubs should be the best. You are from the campus of Our Lady. You are her representatives in everything you do. Her school is judged by your actions. There is much to be done in whatever community you live. Perhaps \vithout your knowing it others look to you for moments of happiness. Do not deny them. They look to you for leadership and example. Do not begrudge them. 
I will be in touch with your Club officers and let them know when I will visit your Club. They •ivill be in touch with all the members. Together we will review progress and activities. 
Meanwhile — keep up the good work. All at Notre Dame are proud of you. In a world that wavers, be strong in the things that count. All positions in life are not equally valuable and true. You know this. Be bold in the grand manner. It is a sad hour in his­tory if Notre Dame men are more at home with things than with ideas. It is a sad moment in time if Notre Dame men — but, no more of that for now. You have the recipe for greatness — it is the man and the moment You are the man, a Notre Dame man, and the moment is now. 
ing talent since P. T. Bamum, Tom has devoted it all to A-IEDICO, guided by a personal credo based on St. Fran­cis' Prayer for Peace and the variously attributed prayer that runs: "I expect to pass through this life but once. Any good, therefore, that I may do, let me do it now, for I shall not pass this \vay again." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 11 
NEW HOME 
At the fall meeting of The Law School's Advisory Council on September 25, Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., announced that the Universitj- hopes to build a new Main Library building in the near future. Pre­liminarj- architectural studies will begin shortly and the new structure should be ready for occupancy in about two and a half years. 

When the Main Library is housed in its new quarters, the present Main Library building wU be made a\-ailable to The Law School and will be remodeled to suit its purposes. The present Main Library building is a handsome structure erected in 1917. It stands in a very desirable part of the campus overlooking St. Mary's Lake. Especially important is the fact that it con­tains accommodations for the Law Library, with plenty of room for expansion of the book collection. 
Follotting Father Joyce, Dean O'Mcara stated that he was very gratified that a so­lution of The Law School's space problem is now in sight. 
ENROLLMENT 

Enrollment in the Notre Dame Law School rose to 175 from 165 in September of 1958, a gain of slightly over 6%. As an­ticipated, however, first-year enrollment declined from 89 to 78; and this decline emphasizes the problem described as fol­
J2 Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 
lows by former President Ross L. Malone of the -American Bar .'\ssociation: 
". . . the current national emphasis on the need for a greater number of sci­entifically trained men and women, com­bined with the dramatic accomplishments of science during the last decade, have combined to affect materially the quan­tit>- and quality of young men and young women applying for admission to law schools. 
". . . There is . . . general concur­rence that we have not yet felt the full impact of the situation and that it will get worse before it gets better. . . ." 
Faced with this situation. Dean O'Meara said in his Annual Report for 1958-59: 
"I feel justified in appealing personal­ly to every alumnus and to ever>' friend of Notre Dame to make it his business to be on the watch for talented prospective law students and to bring to their atten­tion the many adx^antages of the Notre Dame Law School. 
NOTRE DAME LAW ASSOCIATION 
Mr. George H. Gore, L'48 of Fort Lauderdale, Florida, presided at a success­ful luncheon meeting of the Notre Dame Law Association held on .August 26 in con­nection with the annual meeting of the American Bar .Association in Miami. Among those present vtas Mr. L. Vincent Burke, Jr., '33, of Pittsburgh, a director of the Notre Dame Law Association. Mr. Burke's ap­pointment by President Eisenhower as Gen­eral Counsel of the Department of Defense had just been annuonccd by the White House. Dean O'Mcara, who addressed the meeting, presented Mr. Burke as the first Notre Dame lawj-cr in history to hold that important post. 
Mr. Thomas L. Murray, L'51 of South Bend, presided at a luncheon meeting of the Association held on September 26 in con­nection with the annual meeting of the Indiana State Bar Association at French Lick. The meeting \vas addressed by As­sistant Dean Broderick and Mr. William 
E. Voor, L'25, President of the St. Joseph Countj' Bar Association. 
ANOTHER CLERKSHIP 

Mr. Daniel W. Hammer, L'59, has been appointed law clerk for United States Dis­trict Judge James C. Council in Cleveland. Mr, Hammer is the seventh member of his class to receive a clerkship. 
ADVISORY COUNCIL 

Mr. Paul F. Hellmuth, '40, Senior Man­aging Partner of Hale & Dorr, Boston, Massachusetts, was elected chairman of The Law School's Advisor}- Council at its fall meeting at Notre Dame on September 25 and 26. Mr. Oscar John Dorwin, '17, Sen­ior Vice President and General Counsel of Tcvaco, Inc., was elected vice chairman. 
On Saturday morning, September 26, members of the Faculty were guests of the Advisor)' Council at breakfast in the Morris Inn. 
FACULTY NOTES 
Professor Rollison's casebook on Estatq'|« 

Planning  has  been  published  by  the  Uni­ 
versity  of  Notre  Dame  Press.  Professor  .  
Rollison  has  devoted  himself  assiduously  |  
to the preparation of this work for the  last  
six years.  
Dean  O'Mcara  participated  in  a  panel  
-discussion of "Legal Education:  Present and  
Future"  at  the  annual  meeting  of  the  As­ 
sociation  of  General  Counsel  on  October  
15 and  16. The Association  is made up of  
general counsel of America's great industrial  

corporations. Notre Dame la\v}-ers amonr— its members are Mr. Oscar John Dor\vin,~ '17, Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Texaco, Inc., and Mr. John M. Crimmins, L'33, Assistant Chief Counsel of Koppers Company, Inc. In addition to Dean O'Meara, the following participated in the program: Dean Russell D. Nilcs of New York University School of Law, Dean 
F. D. G. Ribble of the University of Vir­ginia Law School, Dean J. B. Fordham of the University of Pennsylvania Law School and Dean E. BIythe Stason of the Universit>^.^ of Michigan Law School. • 
Mr. Harris L. Wofford, Jr., has joined the faculty as visiting associate professor for research. He did his undergraduate work at the Universit}- of Chicago and in 1954 re­ceived an LL.B. from the Yale Law School. Last year Mr. Wofford ser\ed as Father Hesburgh's legal assistant on the Commis­sion on Civil Rights. 
PRESIDENTIAL ACTIVITIES 
Mr. Albert H. Monacclli, '34, of Dunnington, Bartholow & Miller, New York City has entered with enthusi­asm upon the performance of his duties as President of the Notre Dame Law Association. He has written to every Notre Dame laiv-yer regarding The Law School's need for scholarship. 
Area chairmen have also been ap­pointed and are undertaking a system­atic follow-up of Mr. Slonacelli's letter. 
Contributions received by mail in response to Mr. Monacelli's letter are credited to the area from which they come. The donor's class also receives credit. 
ALBERT H. MONACELLI, '34 Prexy Hollers for Aid to Scholars 

<YOUR ALUMNI BOARD 
Highlights of the October meeting of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association. 
One of tlie major discussions of the Board was the fimctioning of the pres­ent Board Committees. In the case of Placement, for example, the program 

^ s being directed by the University (see Editorial Comment). The same an­alysis held true for Foundation and Preparator)' School Committees. 
However, your Board decided that these Committees, having been the in­struments in the creation or develop­ment of these University programs, may not have the detail work, but should retain identit)' to permit con­

tinuin g Board consideration of the progress of the programs, and a chan­nel through which alumni can advance further thinking to the Universit)' in these areas. 
The conclusion of tlie Board was that it might ser\'e you better, and the Uni­versity, if it concentrated on the major alumni programs still its sole re­sponsibilit)', and in tlie study of the cun-ent Sur\'ey results, to open pos­

sibl e new areas of interest and activity'. 
The new Facultj' Insert in the ALUJINUS is the first tangible continu­ous program of a close intellectual re­lationship between the campus (tlirough the faculty) and the alumni. The program may lend itself to valu­able expansion if the response war­rants. The Scholastic, undergraduate weekly, has already run this insert, 

^Jirough the Alumni Association invi­tation, and student response is most favorable. The program opens a con­tinuous channel of interest which wll begin with the undergraduate tiirough the Scholastic, and continue as he be­gins to receive his ALUJINUS. 
Clubs: 
Your Board indicated that a closer tie 

between the Local Clubs and Board mem­bers would result in better interpretation of the alumni thinking. The Clubs in the geographical area of a Board member should contact him on matters of area pro­grams or thinking. 
The advent of Father O'Donnell among the Clubs as Father Hesburgh's own rep­resentative will also strengthen the ties be­tween the University and the Board, and the Club officers particularly. Of interest to the Clubs was the report 
^ f the Committee on Prestige and Public ^.elations, which, in summary, recom­mended: 
1. Continuing emphasis on participation of Clubs and individual alumni in worth­while civic and community projects. An annual public relations a\vard to the Club with the most outstanding program was recommended, and is under study. 
2.
 Clubs should see that alumni distinc­tion in the community is accompanied by alumni identification — letters to the editor, testimonial dinner, etc. 

3.
 See that families, friends, and com­munity leaders, are in your Club meetings when some phase of the Notre Dame story is to be told to advantage, e.g., the forth­coming emphasis on the growing Notre Dame family in your U.N.D. Night meeting. 


Classes: 
Your Board is looking forward to the Class Secretaries Conference in mid-Janu­ary, when the problems of Class commimi­cation. Class news in the ALU.MXUS, Class Reunions, etc., will be ad\-anced for im­provement. The Board is also working toward the activ-ation of the full Class of­ficer slate, to include president, vice-presi­dent, and treasurer, as well as the secretary, who up to now has carried the major Class program. 
Preparatory Schools: 
Your Board asks each Club, and in many instances individual alumni where no Club exists, to cooperate with Rev. James Moran, C.S.C., in his program of high school visi­tations and personal interviews with pros­pective student applicants. 
Placement and Job Counseling: 
The Board recommends that placement and job counseling be left under the cap­able direction of Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., who handles the large volmne of senior placement interviewing, and also those alumni inquiries which come in mod­est volume to the University. It is the con­sensus of the Board, supported by Father Thornton's experience, that time and dis­tance make the placement of alumni largely a program of the Local Club, and each Club, of some size, is requested to make this one of its standing committees to de­velop some local channels of job counsel­ing aid to alumni. 

Inter-Alumni Affairs: 
This is the Board Committee that has been most difficult to define. But there is a definite feeling that Notre Dame alumni have a leadership and a prestige which makes it both an opportunity and an obli­gation to try to develop local programs which can and will include alumni of other colleges in the local areas. This is a par­ticular opportunity for alumni of other Catholic colleges, who may not have enough alumni in a community to be or­ganized, and to Catholic alumni of non-Catholic colleges and tmiversities, whose own alumni programs are necessarily not Catholic in content. 
The above summary is not at all a com­prehensive report, but gives you some of the highlights of what occupies the time and attention of your Directors, and an idea of why their deliberations have been so valuable to Notre Dame (see Editorial Comment, this issue). 
Presenting at last .. . the sublime TRADITION 
Bound into the center of this long-delayed issue is the first offering of the new intellectual series announced in September. 1959, to be known as "The Sublime Tradition." It is prepared by prominent members of the Notre Dame faculty for the intellectual refreshment of the aliunni, but it has akeady been eagerly accepted by the student editors of the Scholastic as a welcome addition to the campus magazine. 
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C, academic assistant to the president, is the co-ordinator of faculty effort on this new project About the first presentation, an introduction by Hrof. Stephen Kertesz to the recent symposium on "What America Stands For," Father Moore has this to say: 
"There is certainly much in this Introduction to stimulate and provoke thinking in those who read it carefully. 
"To understand and to give greater precision to 'What America Stands For' is crucially important to Americans domestically, but this importance Is incalculably magnified in view of our relations with the rest of the world in time of tremendous crisis. Most of this Introduction therefore deals with the 
U.S. versus the World—Russia, her captive peoples and nations; Europe, Africa, Asia, England. Several vital points have been made or vital tilings said 
•which should be shouted for all to hear—but only those will comprehend them who read them carefully and meditate upon them long and prayerfully. 
"Because of the nature of this paper as an Introduction, etc., a table of contents which reveals the problems dealt with in the Symposium must be appended." 
The next offering will be an English department symposiimi on casual or leisure-time reading, with contributions from several distinguished literary experts and an introduction by Prof. Jofm T. Frederick. In succeeding issues Prof. John Kane and Fr. Thomas McAvoy will explore important issues in the respective fields of sociology and history. 
For alumni who may hove difficulty in procuring books recommended • or extracted in this department, the Notre Dome Bookstore has offered to mail all books ordered at the regular retail price. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 13 
Zhe Ummsitu Zodau 
CAMPUS AND COMMUNITY 
POPULATION EXPLOSION: Last fall the enrollment \vas 6,396, the largest in N. D. history and an increase of 262 or 4U % over 1958 . . . LIBRARY RUMBLE: Father Hesburgh has named his academic assistant. Rev. Philip S. Moore, G.S.C., as chairman of a 13-man faculty-administration committee to plan for a new librar>' costing $6 million plus, housing up to t^vo million volumes and providing study space for about half the student body at one time. The present librar)', built in 1917 for one-fifth the present enrollment, is bursting with fewer than 500,000 books, and an ad­ditional 200,000 volumes are housed in special libraries of the col­leges. . . PO^VER OF PRAYER: To ta.x-fed institutions the bud­ding library project, representing about 10% of the current 10-year, $66.6 million campaign, would be a breeze, but to N. D. it means an all-out volunteer effort reinforced by a broadside of prayer for the help of God. This is one reason the Alumni -Assn. considers religious members in continuous good standing through their con­stant contribution of prayer. Looking back 25 years, the Religious Bulletin reprinted this quote from then President Fr. John O'Hara's letter to then Prefect of Religion Fr. John J. Ca\-anaugh: "Ever>'­thing good we have at Notre Dame came in ans\ver to prayer. ANTien we consider the remarkable hold that Notre Dame has on the public imagination, when we contemplate the magnificent phy­sical plant that has been built up here. . . we see a direct action of DiWne Providence that is perhaps without parallel in this coun­try. . . Notre Dame is a work of prayer. Specifically, we might say that every improvement in the ^vay of physical plant was prayed 
for directly before it \vas secured. . . We had one novena after another for the success of the endo>vmcnt drive, for certain specific dormitory facilities, for an engineering building, a commerce building, a law building, etc It was noted. . . that a specific favor \vas granted on the ninth day of a novena. . ." Present Prefect Fr. Glenn Boarman added his hope that N. D. men a decade hence will be as indebted to this generation as we are to the priests and students of 25 years ago. . . HIERARCHY HERE: In past months such events as the dedication of the new Moreau Seminary, the Institute of Spirituality, Liturgy Week, commencements and con­vocations have brought to the campus more than a dozen distin­guished prelates including: His Eminence Richard Gardinal Gush­ing, Archbishop of Boston; His Eminence Franz Gardinal Koenig, Archbishop of Vienna; His Eminence Gio\'anni Gardinal Lercaro, Archbishop of Bologna; His Eminence Alfredo Cardinal Ottaviani, .Pro-Secretary of the Supreme Congregation of the Holy Office; 
14 Notre Dame Alumnus,-December, 1959 
.Archbishop Egidio Vagnozzi, Apostolic Delegate to the U. SJ Archbishop John F. Dearden of Detroit; Archbishop Paul G. Schulte of Indianapolis; Bishop Leo A. Pursley of Fort Wayne, Bishop Andrew G. Grutka of Garj-, Bishop John J. Garberr>' of Lafayette (Ind.), Bishop Maurice SchcNnayder of Lafayette (La.), Bishop Paul J. Hallinan of Charleston, Au.xiliary Bishop James H. Griffiths of New York, Auxiliary- Bishop L. Abel Caillouet of New Orleans, Au.\iliar>' Bishop Raymond P. Hillinger of Chicago, -Au.^­iliary Bishop John Brunini of Natchez-Jackson, and Bishop-elect Charles A. Buswell of Pueblo. Typical of the high ecclesiastics' remarks was this from the .Apostolic Delegates: "I have been im­pressed by the deep spirituality of the University's students an(< alumni and by their attachment to their alma mater." 
COLLEGES AND DEPARTMENTS 
LECTURERS: The first Gardinal O'Hara Commerce Lecture in October \vas "If I Were Khrushchev," treating the threat of infla­tion to the free enterprise system, by Di". Willard J. Graham of the Graduate School of Business Administration, University of North Carolina. The annual P. C. Reilly Lectures in chemistry included five by Dr. Fred Basolo, Northwestern University', oiv "Mechanisms or Substitution Reactions of Metal Complexes"; and three by Prof. Kenneth Pitzer, dean of chemistr>- at the University of California and former director of research for the AEC, on "Carbon Vapor," "Spectroscopy of Hydrogen Bonds" and "Mole­cular Strain Energies." The Committee on International Relations sponsored a lecture on "The Problem of Publicity in American Foreign Policy," by Lincoln White, chief of the U.S. State De­partment's news division. . . ANNOUNCEMENTS: The Univer­sity's eighth annual Union-Management Conference will be held February 26 at ^Vashington Hall for an expected 500 industrial and labor officials and will feature arbitrator David L. Cole, American, Motors Vice President Edu-ard L. Cushman, and Oil Workers offi-' cial Thomas M. McCormick. . . Two summer series of Workshops in Writing, designed for those handling communications problems in schools, \vill be held on campus June 20-July 8 and July 11-29, featuring workshops on the writing and teaching of fiction, general literature, school publications and scripts, with additional workshops on publication design and public relations, conducted by Profs. James Withey, Edw-ard Fischer, Robert Christin and Richard Sul­livan and by Brig. Gen. John A. Scott, publisher and public rela­tions consultant. Director of the workshops is Prof. Thomas Stritch, head of the department of communications arts. . . GRANTS FOF^ RESEARCH: From the National Institutes of Health, $29,900 for general operation at Lobund laboratories; $17,500 to Dr. Ralph Thorson, biology dept head, for roundworm immunity research; $30,308 to Prof. Philip Trcxler for plastic isolators and sterile rooms; $15,000 to Dr. Helmut Gordon for animal aging studies; $13,492 to Prof. George Craig for genetic studies; §8,030 to chem­ist Rev. Thomas J. Lane, C.S.C., for studies of hecterocyclic com­pounds. . . From the Ofiice of Na\'al Research, $37,130 to Prof. George Kuczynski's metallurgical engineering research projects. . . From the National Science Foundation, $40,200 for Dr. Vladimir Seidel's research on mathematical functions, and $9,500 for Dr| Gerd T. Benda's biological research on plant cell reactions to wounding, . . From the AEC, $13,165 to Rev. Cletus S. Bachofer, C.S.G., for electrophysiology study; $20,700 for physics research 
on photoelectric effect directed by Prof. David W. Juenker; $15,000 
^p r radiation biology equipment . . From the Army Surgeon Gen­eral, $10,000 for Prof. Trcxlcr's re,<:earch on germfree transporta­tion. . . From the National Drug Co., $25,300 to Dr. Thomas G. Ward for further evaluation of a new polyvalent cold x-accinc tested on student volunteers. . . And from the .-Vrmy Chemical Corps, $5,000 for studies on mosquito genetics by Prof. Craig. 
NOTRE DAME BOOKS 

UNIVERSITY PRESS: WH.\T AMERICA ST.^NDS FOR, a new ^oo k e-xploring \'arious aspects of contemporary life in the United States, examines the image of the .American system projected by such phenomena as the problem of racial segregation and the im­pact of television. Its editors are Stephen D. Kertesz, head of Notre Dame's Committee on International Relations, and M. A. Fit2simons, editor of the University's quarterly REVIEAV OF POL­ITICS. The book is one of the Committee's International Studies series. . . New and hitherto unknown materials documenting Com­munist suppression of religion in Russia between 1917 and 1925 . are published for the first time in THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION AND RELIGION, a new book by Dr. Boleslaw Szczesniak, profes­so r of history. The volume is the latest of the international studies of the University's Committee on International Relations. . . Calling for an end to the "apathy" which he claims has characterized United States relations with Latin .•America during the past decade. Dr. Frederick B. Pike, assistant professor of history, says that U. S. statesmen and Americans generally must re\'amp their attitudes to^vard a Latin .\mcrica which "is experiencing one of the most significant patterns of cliangc evident in any portion of the world." These views are expressed in FREEDOM AND REFORM IN LATIN AMERICA. He is the editor of the volume, another of the international studies series of the Committee on International Relations. . . The U. S. Na\T was founded by politicians, not by 
^he legendary na\-al officers who usually get the credit, according to Dr. Marshall Smelser, professor of histor>', in his new book, THE CONGRESS FOUNDS THE NAVY, 1787-98. He carried on much of the research for the new volume when he held the James Forrestal Fellowship in Na\-al History at the U. S. Na\-al Academy during the 1956-57 school years. He is the author of an earlier book on 18th-century amphibious warfare, THE CAM­PAIGN FOR THE SUGAR ISLANDS. . . ETHICS AND THE SOCIAL SCIENCES, edited by Rev. Leo R. AVard, C.S.C, has chapters by six prominent scholars who have been investigating 
^thical and social problems, including Christopher Dawson, the 
Celebrated English scholar and visiting professor of Roman Catholic Studies at Harvard University. . . FROM FIDES PUBLISHERS: Father Ward, a member of the department of philosophy, presents an on-the-spot examination of American Catholic parishes from New York to Colorado and from Minnesota to Mississippi in his latest book, THE LIVING PARISH. . . Dr. Willis D. Nutting, an associate professor in Notre Dame's general program, makes a sharp distinction between schooling and educating in his outspoken new books, SCHOOLS AND THE MEANS OF EDUCATION. . . GOD AMONG MEN, the second volume in a series titled "themes 
Wb[ theology," translated and edited by Rev. Bernard G. Murchland, C.S.C, from the collected writings of a group of French priests. The first volume in the series, GOD SPE.AKS, appeared recently. 
ALUMNI 

UNIVERSAL COMMUNION: Thirty thousand Notre Dame alum­ni and their families prayed for "moral leadership in the cause of world peace" on the 22nd annual observance of Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, December 6. Traditionally obserixd W)n the Sunday nearest the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, the annual event, stressing the importance of religion and citizen­ship in American life, coincided this year with President Eisen­hower's audience with Pope John XXIII at the Vatican and 
numerous domestic attacks on the Church in the name of "sepa­ration of church and state." Alumni Secretary James E. Armstrong distributed a bibliography on the First Amendment to the Univer­sity's 175 local alumni clubs supporting the guarantee of freedom "of, not from, religion." Armstrong asked Notre Dame men to pray particularly for world peace and "the success of the Presi­dent's mission to Europe and Asia." 
Communion breakfast ceremonies held in most cities following the church ser\-ices are detailed in this and the March issues. . . 
FACULTY AND ADMINISTRATION 
REQUIESCANT IN PACE: Since the compilation of the obi­tuar>- section back in November, many more alumni have left us, including three beloved members of the faculty. . . REV. PATRICK J. CARROLL, CS.C, former Wee president of the University and longtime editor of .AVE MARLA, died Nov. 18, a priest for 59 years and one of very few who remembered Father Sorin. He taught English on the campus for 20 years and earlier was a pioneer president at St. Edward's University and Sacred Heart College. .A prodigious author, he leaves many novels, stories, and poems and a host of spiritual progeny, beside five nieces (four of them nuns) and two nephews. . . PROF. RONALD E. RICH, head of the chemical engineering department since 1942, died Nov. 25 after a lingering illness. In addition to his prominence in the field of heat transfer chemistry, he was nationally known for his efforts to revive square dancing as an American pastime as a former president of the -American Callers Assn. He was a member of the faculty for 28 years. Survivors include his wdow, the for­mer Lucille Bickel; his father, Hvo sons, a daughter and grandson. . . . REV. WILLIAM C. HAVEY, C5.C., associate professor of philosophy, died Dec. 14 after 32 years in the priesthood as an educator and administrator. Before joining the faculty in 1950, he had been first president of St. George's College in Chile, S. .A.; vice president, commerce dean and philosophy dept. head at St. Edward's University, and a teacher at King's and Holy Cross Colleges. He is suri'ived by a sister. . . THE PRESIDENT: Father Hesburgh, some of whose international activities have been de­tailed in this issue, has also been e-xtremely busy with thfe Civil Rights Commission. "The Challenge of Civil Rights," a 15-minute film discussion of the Civil Rights Commission Report featuring Father Hesburgh, Congressmen Chester Bowles and John Brademas, is a\'ailable on free loan from the offices of either congressman. . . FACULTY CHANGES: Prof. I.a^vrence H. Baldinger has retired as dean of the College of Science but will continue to serve as as­sociate dean, professor of chemistr>' and counselor to pre-medical students. He will be succeeded this fall by Dr. Frederick D. Ros­sini, currently Silliman Professor and head of the department of chemistry as well as director of the Chemical and Petroleum Re­search Laboratory at the Carnegie Institute of Technology. . . Prof. Walter M. Langford has resigned as head of the University of Notre Dame's Department of Modem Languages, and Prof. William J. Grupp has been appointed as his successor. Langford, who will continue to teach and coach fencing at Notre Dame, joined the faculty in 1931 and became head of the department in 1946. He received the University's Lay Faculty -Award at com­mencement exercises last June. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 15 
mrm 
N.D. 1959 FOOTBALI? SEASON STATISTICS 
TEAM KICKOFFS RETURNED PUNTS RETURNED 
Opponents No. Yds. TD No. Yds. Avg.
Notre Dame 
Points Scored 180 Scarpitto . 12 247 Sefcik 10 138 13.8 141 First Downs 137 Sefcik 7 140 Scai-pitto 7 118 16.9 84 by Rushing 92 Mack 5 98 Ratkowski 6 52 8 « 
53 by Passing 36 Dabiero ... 4 70 Dabiero 4 27 6.8 4 by Penalties 9 Ratkowski 2 43 Traver 1 20 20.0 1352 Yards Eushing ._ 1685 Gray 39 Mack 3 16 5.3 458 Times Carried — 452 Perkowski 38 White 2 8 4.0 
171 

3.0 Yards-per-try — 3.7 Ci-otty 36 Stickles 1 2 2.0 1431 Yards Passing 987 Heenan 26 Clark 1 0 0.0 204 Passes Attempted 165 Williams . 7 Haffner 1 0 0.0 
91 Passes Completed 65 Clark 5 .446 Completion Percentage 394 
DEFENSIVE STATISTICS ^
RUSHING 

13 Passes Intercepted by ... 19 187 Yards Int. Returned — 291 TC. Yds. Avg. Opponents Fumbles Recovered 2783 TOTAL. OFFENSE ..... 2672 Gray 50 256 5.1 Adamson 4; Heenan and Scholtz 
Sefcik 43 206 4.8 

59 Punts 62 3; Sefcik and Ti-aver 2; Roy, Pow­Scarpitto 59 199 3.8 
2186 Total Yards 2139 ers, Pietrzak, Schulz, H. Wilke and Grotty 62 184 3.0 
37.0 . Average 34.5 Stickles 1. 381 Yards Punts Returned 348 
Perkowski 53 164 3.1 36 Fumbles 39 Tackles 
Dabiero 36 118 3.3 21 Ball Lost 20 
Ratkowski 26 108 4.2 Scholtz 83; Adamson 82; Buoni-
Mack 32 86 2.7 
conti 67; Stickles 52; Schulz 46;^ 
Gargiulo 14 64 4.6 
Flor 39; Sabal 37; Traver an S 
Stickles 4 27 6.9 

PASSES CAUGHT Scarpitto 33; Grotty 29; Heenan 
Naab ._ 3 26 8.7 
and Bill 28; Potties 24; Gray 23; 
Doyle „. 10 20 2.0 

Number Yards TD Sefcik and CoroUo 22; White and 
Schulz . 1 15 15.0 

Scarpitto 15 297 4 Muehlbauer 21; Ratkowski and 
Healy „. 1 14 14.0 

Heenan 12 198 1 Williams 18; Haffner 14; Ciesiel-
Clark ._ 7 13 1.9 

Stickles 11 235 2 ski and Dabiex-o 13; Hecomovitch, 
Rini 1 0 0.0 

Sefcik 11 203 2 H. AVilke, Mack and Perkowski 
Izo 6 -28 -4.6 

Traver 8 142 1 12; Pietrzak and Bumell 9; Clark 
HaiFner 8 -52 -G.5 

Crottj' 8 104 0 6; Lodish 5; Powers and Naab 4; 
White .. 42 -68 -1.6 

Gray 8 56 0 Roy, Doyle and Gargiulo 3; Mag4j Dabiero 6 64 0 
notta and Colosimo 2; Koreck, 
PASS INTERCEPnONS 
Nebel, Healy, Mikacich, Augu­Lodish 3 26 0 

No. Yds. TD 
stine and Izo 1. 

H. Wjlke 2 27 0 
White 39 

Mack 2 24 0 
Sefcik 35 

Colosimo 2 23 0 
Scarpitto 48 
Passes Broken Up 

Perkowski 2 12 0 
Ratkowski ... .43 Bumell 1 20 0 Schulz 13 Sefcik 4; Sabal and Seax-pitto 
3; Schulz, Ratkowski, Flor and Stickles 2; White, Mack, BuoniT^ Grotty 6 

Perkowski ... 3 conti, Colosimo, Perkowski, Adam­
SCORING Hecomovitch 0 son, Traver, Corollo, Scholtz, Gray, 
TD PAT SAF FG Pts. PUNTING 
Lodish and Heenan 1. Scai-pitto 8 0 0 0 48 No. Yds. Avg. Stickles 2 16 0 3 37 Sefcik 25 937 37.4 Grotty 3 0 0 0 18 Scarpitto 32 1189 37.2 
Blocked Kicks 

Sefcik 3 0 0 0 18 White 2 60 30.0 Stickles, Traver and Doyle 1. Gray 3 0 0 0 18 
PASSING 
White 12 0 0 8 RatkowsM 1 1 (p^s) 0 0 8 Att Comp. Had Int. Yds. TD Pet Heenan 10 0 0 6 Izo 95 44 13 661 6 .46S* Traver 10 0 0 6 White . 87 39 6 653 3 .448 Team 0 0 2 0 4 Hafifher 22 8 0 117 1 .364 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 
(Reprinted by permission from the Notre Dome Scholastie) 
BiUketluiU 
IRISH HOOPSTERS TOP.TSO IN SEASON STRETCH 
SOPHOMORE SURPRISE A Dearie wheels past Defroiters 
IN ITS FIRST 12 games of the sea­son the N.D. basketball team has de­feated Loyola and Purdue, lost con­secutive games to Indiana and North Carolina and conquered Butler and De­troit. This gives the cagers a 9-3 stand­ing with the season half over. 
On Friday, December 19, the Jordan-men walloped Loyola 77-55 in the friendly confines of the Fieldhouse. 
Jl^oyola could do little right this night and the outcome of the game was never in serious doubt. Clarence Red, the Rambler ace, was considerably below form although he did lead the rebound­ers with 16. Mike Graney was the of­fensive leader as the Irish once again showed a balanced offense. Karl Roesler, the 6-7 soph from Fort Wayne, turned in a brilliant perfonnance in a relief role as he tallied 14 points. 
« Next came the Hoosier Classic for the 
Purging Irishmen, They carried their winning streak to six games as they defeated Purdue in the opening game, 82-79. Gi-aney was the big man for the Irish as he tallied 31 points to tie Pur­due's sensational sophomore, Teri-y Dischinger, for individual honors. Both of these players grabbed the majority of the rebounds for their respective teams. 
In the title game, the Irish took a 37-32 halftime lead over Indiana as the ^lei-t Irish defense held the mammoth Walt Bellamy scoreless. In the second half, the Hurryin' Hoosiers, paced by Jerry Bass's 21 markers, wore do\vn the 
Irish \vith their fast break tactics to capture the decision and the champion­ship by a 71-60 margin. Once again the Irish ringleader was Captain Graney. The muscular pivot man tallied 21 points to tie Bass for individual honors. 
Graney shackled. -Alter the Christmas holidays, the Irish resumed play with a 75-65 loss to the talented Tarheels of North Carolina in a game played at Charlotte, N. C. The Tarheels put on spurts in both halves to ice the decision. Graney was limited to six points, his season low. Emmett McCarthy took up the slack with 14 points and John Dearie equaled this total. The loss was the second straight for the Irish after their six consecutive ^rins and gave them a 7-3 slate as they returned home to the Fieldhouse to open a two-game home-stand against Butler and Detroit. 
The Butler Bulldogs were no particu­lar problem to the hoopsters. With high scoring Kenny Pennington limited to six points by the ever-improving Irish defense, the Irish ^^raltzed to an easy 76­51 win. Graney led the way with 22 tallies, one more than high school team­mate Bob Bradtke. The hooking of Graney and jump shooting of Bi'adtke were just the right tonic to snap the Irish two-game losing streak. 
Impressive win. On December 9 the hoopsters were primed for a supreme effort and they rewarded their legion of followers with a 75-63 win over na­tionally ranked Detroit, a win that was more decisive than the score indicated. With about three minutes left and the Irish ahead by 19 points, Coach Johnny Jordan put in his reserves. Going into this game the Titans had been avei-aging 94 points. The stout Irish defense held 
JOHN DEARIE 
Soph scores 30 against DePaul 
GRANEY AND DEBUSSCHERE 
Detroit star scores in close 

the Motor City five to exactly 31 points less than their average in dealing the Titans their third loss of the season as against ten wins. 
Spurred on by the deafening roar of the student body, the Jordanmen raced to an early 15-5 lead. Detroit tried to close the gap, tivice coming to within one point of the Irish. But aided by the fine all-around play of McCarthy and Sopho­more Dearie, the Irish steadily drew away from the han-ied Titans to the delight of the near capacity crowd. Mc­Carthy and Dearie played their finest of the year in this game which was also the team's finest. McCarthy finished the day with 25 points and Dearie had 22. Dave DeBusschere led the Titans with 21 points, although he was held well in check most of the game. 
Rival independent DePaul fell before the Irish 73-70 last Tuesday in a close game which was saved for Notre Dame by the clutch shooting of Gi-aney and JlcCarthy in the closing minutes. But the star of the game was the sopho­more Dearie who poured through 30 points to keep the Irish ahead most of the game. The threesome of Deaiie, Graney, and McCarthy accounted for 65 of the Jordanmen's 73 points. 
Notre Dame led all through the game until Paul Ruddy made two free throws ^vith 1:21 left to put DePaul in front 68-67, But in the final minutes baskets by McCarthy and Gianey gave the Irish their tenth victory of the year. The loss was the third sti-aight for Ray Meyer's Chicago cagers. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 17 
Monograms Football 
Thirty-four members of the 1959 
Notre Dame football team were 
awarded monograms for participation 
in the 10-game schedule according to 
a joint announcement by Athletic Di­
rector Ed Krause and Head Coach 
Joseph Kuharich. The announcement 
was made at the annual football ban­
quet on Dec. 2. Harrj' Mehre, '22, 
new Alumni Assn. director and former 
coach, was toastmaster, and guests in­
cluded baseball great Stan Musial and 
Nortliwestem Coach Ara Parsegliian. 
Guard Myron Pottios was named to 
succeed graduating Ken Adamson as 
captain of die 1960 team. 
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C, e.^­
ecutive vice president of the Universit}' 
and chairman of tlie faculty' board in 
control of atliletics, also spoke. 
The monogram list includes 15 sen­
iors, 5 juniors, and 14 sophomores. 
\Vinners are: 
ENDS: Max Bumell, sophomore, Evans­ton, III.; Patrick Heenan, senior, Detroit, Mich.; Michael Lodish, senior, Detroit, Mich.; *Edward Nebcl, senior, Mt Clem­ens, Mich.; Monty Stickles, senior, Poush­keepsie, N. Y.; Leslie Trjiver, sophomore, Toledo, Ohio; Henr\' Wilke, senior, Ham­ilton, Ohio. 

T.-\CKLES: Robert Bill, sophomore. Garden City, N. Y.; Joseph Carollo, sopho­more, Wi-andottc, Mich-i Richard Ciesiel­ski, senior. South Bend, Ind.; Oliver Flor, senior, Seattle, Washingon: Robert Pic­trzak, junior, Hamtramck, Mich.: George Williams, sophomore, Marshfield, Mass. 
GU.'\RDS: Kenneth .•^damson (captain), senior, Colorado Springs, Colo.; Nicholas Bucniconli, sophomore, Springiicld, Mass.; Michael Muehlbauer, senior, Buffalo, N.Y.; Myron Pottios, junior, VanVoorhis, Pa.; Norbert Roy, sophomore. Baton Rouse, La.j jMbin Sabal, senior, Chicago, 111. 
CENTERS: Thomas Hecomovich, sopho­more, Bovey, Minn.; Robert Scholtz, sen­ior, Chica.go, 111. 
QU.'\RTERB.\CKS: George Haffner, sophomore, Chicago, 111.; George Izo, sen­ior, Barberton, Ohio; Clay Schulz, sopho­more, Schofield, Wis.; Donald White, sen­ior, Haverhill, Mass. 
HALFB.\CKS: .^ngelo Dabiero. sopho­

18 Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 
Go to 34 at Banquet 
more, Donora. Pa.; William Mack, junior, .Allison Park, Pa.; Raymond Ratkowski, junior, Ridgewood, N.Y.; *Thomas Rini, senior, Cleveland, Ohio; Robert Scarpitto, junior, Rahway, N..T.; George Sefcik, sopho­more, Cleveland, Ohio. 
FULLB-ACKS: .James Crotty, senior, Se­attle, AVash.; Gerard Gray, sophomore, Bal­timore, Md.; Joseph Perkowski, sophomore, ^Vilkes Barre, Pa. 
Also awarded monograms were Sen­ior Manager William Killilea, San Mateo, Calif., Associate Senior Man­ager Edward Kfoury, Andover, Mass., and Associate Senior Manager Peter Sayour, Brooklj-n, New York. 
* Denotes senior seri-ice monograms. 
1960 Notre Dame Football Schedule^, 
Sept. 24 
Oct. 1 

Oct. 8 Oct. 15 Oct. 22 Oct. 29 Nov. 5 Nov. 12 Nov. 19 
Nov. 26  California 
at Notre Dame 
 Purdue 
at Notre Dame 
 North Carolina at Chapel Hill, N.C.  Michigan State 
at Notre Dame 
® 
 Northwestern at Evanston, III. 
 Navy at Philadelphia, Pa. 
 Pittsburgh at Notre Dame 
 Miami at Miami, Fla. (nightL  Iowa ^ at Notre Dame  Southern California at Los Angeles, Cal. 

THE INTERNATIONAL ATOM 
(Continued from page 3) 
Delegates . Hesburgh and Folsom used the diplomatic freedom accorded by the Pope to ignore another Western boycott in Geneva. As always, die Vatican part)' and Mass were attended by all delegates. 
Another international incident was averted when Emelyanov and a large part)' of Soviet scientists were nearh'' refused permission to view U.S. experi­ments in peaceful nuclear power at the Argonne National Laboratory. Father Hesburgh, a policy ad\'isor at Argonne, agreed to pass up a home football game in order to serve as host and sponsor. 

A peaceful second meeting between-^ McCone and Emelyanov was followed by die Russian's visit to the Notre Dame as Fadier Hesburgh's guest. Emelyanow was particularly grateful for a private Mass which Father Hes­burgh said for his deceased wife. 
As an advisor to the National Science Foundation and odier scientific bodies. Father Hesburgh doesn't know where^ these gestures will lead, but he places-' much more hope for peace in the plain-spoken interchange of scientists than in the subtle snubs and subter­fuges of diplomacy. 
The tour included a briefing of hosts and guests in the control room of Argonne's cxpcri-' mental boiling water reactor, a prototype nuclear power plant. A model of the entire reactor can be seen in the background. 
Master of ceremonies Dan Shannon (left) and Club envoy Father O'Donnell visit with veteran broadcaster Don McNeill and his son Bob, the third McNeill son to attend Notre Dame, his older boys having been graduated, now studying for the priesthood as a member 
m of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Chicago Fetes Lads and Dads With Previews Of Campus Life 

them an invitation to take part in the Club's activities. In addition, there were on hand two representatives of the Chicago Campus Club, Robert Toland and Robert Beranek, who outlined the activities of their group. 
Father Thomas O'Donnell, recently named a traveling advisor to Notre Dame alumni clubs, gave the principal talk. He discussed the high rate of failures among college freshmen, and particularly he emphasized the neces­sity for developing proper study habits during the first year. The program was concluded \vith a sho%ving of the movie "Notre Dame," which was prepared in 1957 by the Notre Dame Fovmdation. 
The Club has always considered this as one of its more important functions and present plans call for its continua­tion. 
l959"Freshman \^ai\\&c%' Rcception"f95 
For the past few years the Notre Dame Club of Chicago has held a reception for the new freshmen from the Chicago area, and their fathers. They have tried to aim tliese af­fairs primarily at the fathers. An effort is made to interest the fathers in 

»fhe Chicago Alumni Club, and to en­courage them to take part in the Club's activities even before their sons' gradu­ation. 
The exact form of this reception has varied over the years, but the 1959 pro­gram was representative of what has been done in the past. It tried to give the fathers a birds-eye view of the ^thletic, scholastic and general life on ^h e Campus. This has been done by havinar a member of the Athletic Staff 
By Jerome A. Prazel, Jr., •50 
speak, putting particular emphasis on the intramural and minor sports pro­gram, rather than the major intercol­legiate sports. Thomas Fallon, the wrestling and tennis coach at the Uni­versity, was the guest speaker for 1959. Because of his additional e.\perience in other fields of education, he also high­lighted for the fathers the need for real scholastic effort on the part of the freshmen during their first year. The master of ceremonies, Dan Shannon, brought out the fact that Coach Fallon practices what he preaches, inasmuch as his tennis team, during the 1959 season, won fourteen matches while losing none, and the team as a whole carried a scholastic average of approxi­mately 88. 
Phillip Faccenda, the Club president, greeted the fathers, and extended to 

Alumni Secretary Jim Aimstrong (front and center) is hamiily flanked by Chicago ahnnai ; and their sons now attending Notre Dame. (Photos 1^ Jim Feistel, '48.) 
Voire Dame Alumnus, Deamker, 7559 l^ 
'Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents^ 
ALABAMA 
S. Eugene Sulli\-an, '25, 1707 Wellington Rd., Birmingham 9, Ala. 
ARIZONA Phoenix—Bt. Dale H. Stannard, '45, 1319 
W. Missouri, Phoenix, Arizona. 
Tucson—Ehner Besten, '27, Bo.x 5714, Tucson, Arizona. 
ARKANSAS Fort Smith — James A. Gilker, '48, 3715 Free Ferrj- Rd., Fort Smith, Ark. Little Rock—James E. Madigan, '43, 4617 Crestwood, Little Rock, Ark. 
CALIFORNIA Central—HaroM A. Bair, '29 (Secretar>0> 2430 Tulare St.. Fresno, Gal. Los Angeles—VonXey L. Brady, '49, 310 S. Tyler Ave., EI Monte, Calif. Northern—Ed\'^d F. Mansfield, '34, 523 West Hillsdale, San Mateo, Calif. Orange County—^Richard R. Murphy, '53, 12622 S.W. Ensamada, Tustin, Gal. San Diego—Richard Derenthal, '51, 6345 ­49th St., San Diego, Gal. 
COLORADO Denoer—Leon Archer, '29, 7440 W. 10th Ave., Lakewood 15, Colo. 
Southern Colorado—A. Jack Thomas, '49, 
3222 Rex St, Pueblo, Colo. 
CONNECTICUT Connecticut Valley—Louis A. Bergeron, '52, 90 Sylvan Ave., Meriden, Goim. Fairfield County — William Mulrenan, '37, 100 Tidemill Terrace, Fairfield, Conn. Naugatuck—Alired E. Sullivan, '52, 301 Dorchester, Waterbur)", Conn. New Haven—^Joseph Benoit, '50, Bo.x 1670, New Haven 10, Conn. 
DELAWARE James J. Coleman, '46, 219 Oakivood Road, Wilmington, Dela\vare. 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA Joseph L. Fitzmaurice, '36, 2-B Woodland AVay, Greenbelt, Md. 
FLORIDA 
C«n/ra/—Roy B. Laughlin, '48, 2061 Rock-ledge, Rockledge, Fla. 
Fort Lauderdale^dhn L. Gallan, '18, 433 
N.E.
 15th Ave., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. Greater Miami—Charles E. Maher, '35, 138 

N.E.
 92nd St., Miami Shores, Fla. North Florida—Frtd H. Baumer, '22, 4731 Blackburn Rd., Jacksonville, Fla. 



Palm Beach County—^Timothy D. O'Hara, '54, 1st National Bank BIdg., Palm Beach, Fla. 
St. Petersburg-Tampa—.Al W. Johannes, '26, 10102 Tarpon Dr., Treasure Island 6, Fla. 
.GEORGU 

Atlanta—^Kenneth Davis, '56, 3641 Ashford Dunwoody Rd., N.E., Apt 3, Atlanta, Georgia. 
HAWAn 

Walter Tagawa, '52, 917-A Hausten St., Honolulu, Hawaii. 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 
IDAHO 
James J. Carberry, '41, 8507 Vincent St., Boise, Idaho. Idaho Falls—James M. Brady, '29, P.O. Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho 
ILLINOIS 
Aurora—Owen Kane, '38, Kane Ford, 230 Galen Blvd., Aurora, 111. Central Illinois—^John C. Amheira, '51, 2115 Cherry Rr., Springfield, III. Chicago—Philip J. Faccenda, '52, 1510 Ogden Ave., LaGrangc, 111. Decatur—Milton J. Bcaudinc, '54, 76 E. Court Dr., Decatur, 111. 
Eastern Illinois—John Belton, Jr., '31, 1210 
N. Logan -•\ve., Danville, 111. Fox FoHey—George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, 111. Joliet—John Lux, Jr., '53, c/o Herald News, 78 Scott St., Joliet, 111. 
Kankakee Valley—Richard L. Clancy, '52, 705 W. Broadway, Bradley, 111. 
La Salle County Club—John T. Clark, '49, 
726 Sherivood, Ottawa, Illinois. Peoria—Maurice Cicciarelli, '55, 5175 Pros­pect Rd., Peoria, 111. Rockjord—AVm. H. Lichtenberger, '50, 1014 S. School Ave., Frceport, 111. Rock River Valley—Luke R. Morin, '53, 523 N. DLxon .Ave., DLxon, 111. 
Southern Cook County—^Angelo A. Ciam­
brone, '57, 168 Hawthorne Lane, Chicago Heights, 111. 
INDIANA 
Calumet District — William J. O'Connor, '51, Galvin, Galvin and Leeney, 7th Floor Calumet BIdg., Hammond, Ind. 
Eastern Indiana—^William B. Cronin, '31, 521 E. Jefferson, Hartford City, Ind. Elkhart—^.Austin Gildea, '30, 5 St. Joseph Manor, Elkhart, Ind. £oanrot"H«—Donald F. Haller, '43, 716 S. Villa, E\'ansville 14, Ind. Fort Wayne—Paul O. Schirmeyer, '48, 904 
E. Washington Center Rd., Ft. Wayne, Ind. /n<iiana/io?ir—Robert V. Welch, '50, 7834 Castle Lane, Indianapolis, Ind. 
Michigan CiVj^-WiUiam J. Priebe, '53, 126 Boyd Circle, Michigan City, Ind. 
St. Joseph Valley—Vindy Goepfrich, '26, 
1109 N. Cleveland, South Bend 28, Ind. Terre Haute—^Druie Cavender, '46, 271 Monterey, Terre Haute, Ind. 
Wabash Valley—James W. Glaser, '50, P.O. 
Box 59, Lafayette, Ind. 
IOWA 
BarZing(on—Roland J. Martel, '43, 2505 Surrey Rd., Burlington, Iowa. 
Cedar Rapids—Joseph C. Green, '51, 2922 
Mansfield Ave., S.E., Cedar Rapids, Iowa. 
Des Moines—Thomas J. Nolan, Jr., '54, 235 Insurance Exchange BIdg., 5th and Grand -Ave., Des Moines, Iowa. 
Dubuque—^Rev. William Kunsch, '37, Loras College, Dubuque, Iowa. 
Sioux-Land — Raymond B. Duggan, '43, (Secretary), 3244 Jackson, Sioux City, Iowa. 
Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, 
E. Moline)—^Dr. Robert J. Foley, '46, 2110 Brady St., Davenport, lowa-

KANSAS Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, '49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. Salina — Thomas Kennedy, '51, 1900 Get* hart, Salina, Kansas. 'CJ l>'iVfii/a—Theodore P. Jochems, '40, 402 N. Roosevelt, Wichita 8, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY Leo J. Brown, Jr., '50, 3721 Willmar Ave., Louisville 5, Ky. 
LOUISIANA 

Ark-La-Tex—George J. Despot, '45, 517 
Market, Shreveport, La. New Orleans—^James E. Smith, '50, 6414 Cartier Dr., New Orleans, La. «_) 
MAINE Lemiston, Me.—^J. Leonard Tobin, '38, 50 Russell St., Lewiston, Me. 
MARYLAND Baltimore—Francis Herb, '37, 16 Thomhill Rd., Luthen-illc, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS Boi/on—William E. Daccy, Jr., '49, 16 Dar­rell Dr.. Randolph, Mass. ^ 
MICHIGAN 

Battle Creek—Raymond R. Allen, '40, 409 
Orchard Place, Battle Creek, Mich. Berrien County—^Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. S t Joe, Niles, Mich. Blue Water District—William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. Dearborn—John J. Fish, Jr., '53, 14940 XKchigan Ave., Dearborn, Mich. Detroit—O. Don Hcrron, '34, 3900 E. Out­er Dr., Detroit 34, Mich. JT) F/in«—Arthur T. Paradis, '49, 3401 Briar­wood Dr., Flint 7, Mich. Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn, '40, Wright & Zinn, Michaels BIdg., Ironwood, Michigan. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan— 
John T. Mulvihill, '53, 21 Manchester, S.W., Grand Rapids, Mich. Hiazuathaland—Thomas J. Bergan, '55, 
P. O. Box 392, Marinette, Wis. Jackson—Carl F. Bachle, Jr., '52, 141i D Larry's Drive, Jackson, Mich. Kalamazoo—Joseph O'Keefc, '44, O'Keefe Motor Sales, 433 W. Water St., Kalama­zoo, Mich. Lansing—Clement E. McFarlane, '38, 1638 Wellington Rd., Lansing, Michigan. Monroe—Charles J. Golden, '48, 35 E. Front St, Monroe, Mich. 
Muskegon—John M. Bierbusse, '54, 4029 Stamford Dr., Muskegon Heights, Mich. 
Saginaw Valley-^eorse Ward, '40, 203' 
Park, Bay City, Mich. Top of Michigan—^Edward L. Moloney, 
•17, 416 East State St., Cheboygan, Mich. 
MINNESOTA 

^Duluth-Superior—James P. Keough (treas­urer), 2705 East Fifth St., Duluth, Minn. Twin Cities—James C. Rogers, '53, 1350 
Delaware, St. Paul 7, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI William P. Condon, '39 (vice-pres.), 601 Washington, Greenville, Miss. 

AnSSOURI Kansas City—(Mo. and Kans.)—^John T. Massman, '56, 1261 West 56th St., Kansas City, Mo. %St. Louis—J. Donald Ratchford, '50, 9705 Madison, Rock Hill 19, Mo. 
MONTANA Bernard Graincy, '43, 906 11th Avenue, Helena, Mont. 
NEBRASKA Omaha and Council Bluffs—William Seid­ler, '52, 4817 California St., Omaha, Neb. 

NEW JERSEY Central—Dan Grace, '51, 406 Accacia Rd., 9 Scotch Plains, N. J. New Jersey—^William L. Kirchner, Jr., '51, Prudential Insurance Co. of America, 763 Broad St., Newark, N.J. South Jersey—^Thomas J. Auchter, '50, Munn Lane & Kay Drive, Haddonfield. 
N.J. NEW MEXICO 
Anthony F. Potenziani, '40, 1817 Sigma Chi, N.E., Albuquerque, N. M. 

NEW YORK #Sui?aIo—Henry Balling, Jr., '52, 166 Waher Ave., Tonawanda, N. Y. Capital District—C. F. Regan, Jr., '27, 441 Loudenville Rd., Albany 11, N.Y. Central—William V. Dwyer, '46, 412 E. Manchester Rd., Syracuse 4, N. Y. Golden Circle—]amts F. McVay, '42, 49 Parkway Lane, Bradford, Pa. Mid-Hudson Valley—^Donald J. Reynolds, '53, 118 South Ave., Poughkeepsie, N. Y. Mohawk Valley—^Daniel E. Waterbury, '48, 76 Herthum Rd., Whitesboro, N. Y. aNew York City—James C. MacDevitt, Jr., 
• '35, 350 Fifth Ave., New York 1, N. Y. Rochester—John F. Burke, '53, 29 Ches-well Way, Brighton, Rochester, N. Y. 
Schenectady—^Leon S t Pierre, '55, c/o G. E. Company, P. O. Box 1088, Schenectady, 
N. Y. Syracuse—See "Central New York" Southern Tier—Edwn Bonham, '09, 329 
Hamilton St, Painted Post, N. Y. Triple CidVi—George J. Haines, '42, 63 Davis, Binghamton, New York. 

NORTH CAROLINA North Carolina Cluh—Donald Kelsey, '48, 1115 Westridge Rd., Greensboro, N. C. 
NORTH DAKOTA William Daner, '53, 1106 So. Highland Acres, Bismarck, North Dakota. 
OHIO Akron—^John L. Darago, '54, 1351 Hamrael 
St, Akron, Ohio. .Ronton — James F. Weber, '57, Editorial " Dept, Canton Repository, 500 Market 
Ave., South, Canton, Ohio. Cincinnati — John E. Cronin, '48, 6111 Scarlet Dr., Cincinnati 24, Ohio. 
Cleveland—Paul B. Lillis, '42, 1400 National City Bank Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio. Columbus—Dr. J. Joseph Hughes, '31, 987 Grandview Ave., Columbus, Ohio. Doyion—Herman A. Zitt, '48, 635 Bell­monte Park, No., Dayton, Ohio. Hamilton—Jerome A. Ryan, '41, 353 South "D" St, Hamilton, Ohio. Northwestern—^William J. Otte, '35, 401 West Park St, Coldwater, Ohio. Ohio Valley—James J. Haranzo, '52, 29 Oakland Ave., Wheeling, W. Va. Sandusky—Richard C. Hohler, '47, 2603 Eastwood Drive, Sandusky, Ohio. Tiffin—lied J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St, Tiffin, Ohio. Toledo—Richard J. Kopf, '49, 2250 Castle­
• wood Dr., Toledo 13, Ohio. 
Youngstown—^Thomas E. Kerrigan, '44, 133 East Judson Ave., Youngstown, Ohio. 
OKLAHOMA 
Oklahoma Cit}-—Dr. .-U R. Drescher, '38, 4415 N.Thompson, Oklahoma City. Okla. Tulsa—John H. Conway, '44, 2927 E. 26th 
Place, Tulsa, Okla. 
OREGON Charies Slatt, '33, 2835 N.E. 19th Ave., Portland 12, Oregon. 
PENNSYLVANIA Central Pennsylvania — Dr. George W. Katter, '41, U. S. Bank Bldg., Johns­town, Pa. £ne^oh n McCormick, Jr., '53, 910 Wash­ington Place, Erie, Pa. ffarruiurg—Donald R. Meek, '50, 1932 Carlisle Rd., Camp Hill, Pa. Lehigh Valley—James H. Walsh, '41, 1303 Delaware .'\ve., Bethlehem, Pa. Monongahela Valley—Louis W. Apone, '41, 321 Market St, Brownsville, Pa. Philadelphia—John F. Moorehead, '49, 159 Vassar Road, Bala-Cynwyd, Pa. Pittsburgh—Char\es L. Christen, '52, 3716 Rebecca St., Pittsburgh 34, Pa. Scranton—^Thomas J. Harrington, '34, 105 Washington Rd., Scranton, Pa. Wilkes-Barre — Raymond J. Sobota, '49, 760 Miners Bank, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Williams port—Edward F. O'Dea, '57, 1254 Park .'Vve., Williamsport, Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN NUSSACHUSETTS James M. McMuIIen, '36, Providence Journal, Providence, Rhode Island 
SOUTH CAROLINA Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore Dr., West\vood, Charleston, So. Car. 
SOUTH DAKOTA Black Hills — Bernard Gira, '10, Custer, South Dakota. 
TENNESSEE Chattanooga—Herbert J. Haile, Jr., '55, W. 
C. Teas Co., 1212 McCallie Ave., Chat­tanooga, Tenn. 
Memphis — Raymond Moran, '54, 1886 Monticello Dr., Memphis, Tenn. 
TEXAS Dallas—^John Schroeter, '44, 7814 South­western, Dallas 5, Te.xas. El Paso—James J. R>"an, '53, c/o Murray Hotel, Silver City, New Mexico. Houston—Lawrence J. Kelley, '42, 5025 Woodway, Houston, Texas. 

Midland-Odessa — H. Byrne O'NeUl, '45. 703 Boyd, Midland, Texas. Rio Grande Valley—Robert Aziz, '49, 1205 
W. Elizabeth, Brownsville, Texas. 

San Antonio—John M. O'Conndl, .'53, 123 Colleen Dr., San Antonio 10, Texas. 
UTAH 

Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Keams Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
VIRGINIA 

Andrew E. O'Keeffe, '33, 814 St Christo­pher, Richmond 20, Va. Tidewater — PhiUp L. Russo, '49, 8107 Wedgewood Drive, Norfolk, Va. 
WASHINGTON 

5/)oitane—Armonde R. Albo, '35, W. 2528 Rockwell, Spokane 13, Wash. 
Western — Theodore P. Cummmgs, '44, Dore, Cummings & Dubuar, 905 Ameri­can Bldg., Seattle 4, Wash. 
>VEST VIRGINIA 

John F. Kaemmerer, '53, 2010 Weberwood Dr., South Charleston 3, West Va. Centra/—John D. Julian, '40, P.O. Box 2063, Clarksburg, W. Va. 
^VISCONSIN 

Fox River FaHe>'—Ralph H. Caston, '42, 530 Grove, Necnah, Wis. 
Green Bay—^Wallace P. Christman, '44, 2423 Beaumont St, Green Bay, Wis. LaCrosse—James Kroner, '50, 2318 Missis­
sippi St, LaCrosse, Wis. Afern"//—Augustus H. Stange, 102 S. Pros­pect, Merrill, Wis. Milwaukee — John Linnehan, '40, 7318 W. Bluemound Rd., Wauwatosa, Wis. Northwest Wisconsin—G. T. Doivns, '33, 219'/4 S. Barstow, Eau Claire, Wis. South Central—Thomas W. Frost, '30, 115 Ely PI., Madison, Wis. Southeastern—John V. Whaley, '51, North Bay, Racine, Wis. 
WYOMING 

Casper—Patrick H. Meenan, -Acting Pres., '49, Midwest Bldg., P.O. Box 481, Cas­per, Wyo. 
FOREIGN CLUBS 

Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C, '24 (key man), Moreau Home, 28 Zin­dabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. 
Canada—^Paul H. LaFramboise, '34, 400 Charest Blvd., Quebec, Canada. 
Chile—Rev. Francis A. Provenzano, C.S.C, '42, St. George's College, Aven. Pedro de Valdivia 1423, Santiago, Chile. 
Ecuador—John Moeller, '47, P.O. Box 213, Quito, Ecuador. 
Guam—Capt. V. T. Blaz, Marine Barracks, Navy 926, c/o F.P.O., San Francisco, Cal. AfaniVa—John F. Gotuaco, '24, 1316 Penn­
sylvania, Manila, Philippines. Mexico City — Telmo DeLandero, '37, Eugenio Sue 220, Mexico City. Panama—William J. Sheridan, '34, Box 98, Balboa Heights, Canal Zone. Peru—^Enrique LuUi, '45, Cuzco 440, Lima, Peru. 
Puerto Rico—Vice-Pres.: Paul McManus, '34, B&M Products Co., Box 2695, San Juan, Puerto Rico. 
iJom«—Secretary: Vincent G. McAloon, '34, c/o Notre Dame International School, Via Aurelia 796, Rome, Italy. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 21 
CALENDAR 
Regularly scheduled dub meetings that have been reported to the Alumni Office are as follows: 
BUFFALO—First Tuesday of every month at 8:30 p.m.-. Hotel Sheraton, 715 Dela-A\-are Ave., Buffalo, N.Y. In addition, a table marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" is rcser\'ed for lunch at K. of C , 506 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 
CED.AR RAPIDS—Communion Breakfast Meeting, fourth Sunday of even months: 
8:00 a.m. Mass at alternating parishes; 
9:00 breakfast meeting at Bishops. CENTRAL OHIO—First Monday (night) of ever>' month, Junior Rose Room, Vir­ginia Hotel, Columbus, Ohio. CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—Second Wed­nesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High St., Perth Amboy. DEC.'^TUR — Monthly luncheons, fourth Wednesday of cvcrj' month at Greider's Cafe, North Water Street, Decatur, III. DETROIT—First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12 noon. Ye Olde WajTie Club, 1033 Wayne S t ERIE—First Friday dinner meeting with wi%'es. Antler's Restaurant, 7:00 p.m.. Sept thru June, Eric, Pa. FORT LAUDERDALE—Second Thursday of each month, dinner at 7:30 p.m.. Gov­ernor's Club Hotel, F t Lauderdale, Fla. INDIANAPOLIS — Every Thursday noon at the Indianapolis Bar Association, 33 
North Pcnnsj'U'ania St, Indianapolis, Ind. KANSAS CITV'—Call Plaza 3-2160. MIAMI—First Thursday (night) of ever)" 
month at Hotel Everglades, Biscayne 
Boulevard, Downtown Miami. 
OKLAHOMA CITY — First Monday of each month, night, check McFarland's Drive-In Theater, Oklahoma City, Okla., for details. 
PHILADELPHL'^—Second Tuesday of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club. 
PITTSBURGH — Weekly luncheon at the Variety Club, Thursday, in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, 12 noon. 
ROCHESTER — Monthly luncheon, first Monday, at 12:15 p.m.. Home Dairy, 111 East Main, second fioor. 
ROME — Open House nightly, Scoglio Di Frisio Restaurant, Via Merulana 256, ph. 734619. Ask for Vince Mc^Ioon, club host 
ST. LOUIS—Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 noon. Key Club in Hotel Jefferson, St Louis, Mo., second Monday. 
SOUTHWESTERN WISCONSIN — First Friday of every month, noon luncheon get-together at the Racine Elks Club. 
TERRE HAUTE — Third Thursday of every month, 7:30 p.m. Meeting at the Tcrre Haute House. 
WASHINGTON — Weekly luncheon, each Tuesday, 12 noon. Touchdown Club, 1414 I Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 
WILKES-BARRE—First Tuesday of every month, luncheon meeting, 12:15 p.m., in the main dining room, Hotel Sterling. 

22 Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 
Akron 
Members of the Xolrc Dame Club of Akron enjoyed an evening of dancing and entertainment accented with Hawaiian flavor. Tlic Xolrc Dame Summer Haali (Hawaiian for dance) was held August 21 on the Patio at Fairlawn Countrv' Club. JOE AVEIBEL, '56, was cliairman of the affair and was backed by club members JOHN DARiVGO, '54; JOHX B. HUMMEL II, '49; BRUCE RAFF, '49; JERRY KLEIN, '32, and TO.M BOTZUM, '49. A student committee headed by Eddie Butler, Jr., president of the '58-'59 Junior class, and Paul Bertscli offered a helping hand that made the sum­mer frolic a success. 
Tuesday night, September 15, the alumni club sponsored a dinner for incoming freshmen and their fathers at lacomini's Restaurant. The *59-'60 fresh­men from the Akron area number five. Tlicy are Jim Fraser. Dave Culver, John Skcese, Mike Gar­rett and Dan Sautcr. BOB HUDDLESTON, '54, was cliairman of the event. Speakers ofTcring advice to the future alumni were Denny Shaul, '(iO, presi­dent of the student body for '58-'59, and Eddie Butler, '60. 
Tlic Akron Club planned an excursion for the Xortliwcstem game for about 80 members of the club. Two Greyhound buses arrived on the campus late Saturday morning and were met by the Blue Circle. After the game, the buses stopped at Eaton Springs Trout Club. 
December 29 was the date for the annual Akron Club Christmas Dance this year. Tlic gala affair was held at the Portage Countrv* Club with club vice president, JOHN B. HUM.MEL, cliairman of the ball. 
Tile wives of club members comprised the social committees. Tliese included wives of JIM WALTER, '50; BILL AHERN, '39; TOM BOT­ZU.M, '49; BILL BURKHARDT, '35; HUGH COLOPY, '33; JOHN DARAGO, '54; JOHN DETTLING, 21; JOHN DORAN. '33; CLAUDE HORNING, '29; JOE KRAKER, '29; BOB K.\PISH, '52: BOD KOLB, '34; DAN MOTZ, '54, and JOH.\ THORPE, '48. 
Alabama 
Tlie annual business meeting was held August 22 folloxving refreshments and dinner at the Gold Nugget Restaurant, Homcwood, Ala. Elections were held to replace one-year Directors BILL LEONARD and JOHN CAMPBELL. Also the members were to have elected a secretary-treasurer to replace ED DAILEY, who will be sorely missed, having been transferred to Tulsa, Okla. Wc hope that the new leaders' names will be reported before tfie next issue. 
In its first year the Alabama Club held four fine events, an organizational meeting, a December Com­munion Breakfast featuring FATHER BRIAN EGAN and EDDIE GLEN'NON, a March U.N.D. Night with JI.M ARMSTRONG and a joint N.D.­Purdue boat trip outing; were the most publicized alumni club in Alabama, thanks to the efforts of BOB FLVNN, and emerged solidly in the black. 
Baltimore 
Since last April the officers of the Baltimore Club have been: CHARLES M. NORTON, president; BILL RYAN (fonnerly of Buffalo), vice president; BOB WTLLUMS, secretary, and BILL KEARV, treasurer. 
DANNY SULLIVAN (formerly of New- York) was diainnan of the Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Brealcfast in December. 
Black Hills 
The Notre Dame Club of the Black Hills held the annual picnic at Sheridan Lake. Approximately thirty attended, including members and their families. 
Club affairs hax-e been limited in the Dcadu-ood, S.D., area since a horrible four-day fire in Sep­tember. 
—^VILLIAM H. CARNAHAN, Secy. 

Boston 
His Eminence RICHARD C.\RDLVAL GUSH­ING (D.D. MS). Archbishop of Boston, was guest of honor at the annual obscr^'ance of Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday by the Notrt— Dame Club of Boston on December 13, 1959, a* ) the Paulist Fathers' Information Center. Our beloved Cardinal Gushing assisted RT. REV. MSGR. CORNELIUS DONOV^VN, '09, Club chaplain, and spoke afterwards at breakfast downstairs in the auditorium. FATHER EDMUND JOYCE, ex­ecutive Wcc president of Notre Dame, was also on hand, representing FATHER HESBURGH and the University. 
TIM TOOMEY, '30, was chairman of this his­toric event, details of which will follow in the next issue. 
On Wednesday evening, September 9, 1959, the Boston Club Ictcd the largest freshman class ever to enter Notre Dame from the New England area. The freshmen and their fathers were treated to ^ \ delicious chicken dinner at the Fresh Pond Rcslau-** rant, Cambridge, Mass. 
Both MSGR. CORNELIUS DONOVAN, Club chaplain, and FR. LUCIEN DUCIE, C.P., retreat master at St. Gabncl's Monaster^', Brigliton, Mass., the principal speaker, gave the freshmen and alumni thoughtful, interesting talks. Assisting in this regard were Club President BILL DACEY and Campus Club President Al Pcrini. Together they gave the freshmen a fine sendofT to campus, and a solid understanding of their responsibilities as students of a Catholic Univcisity. 
DOUG ROBERTSON, Club treasurer, showed the ahs'ays-popular film on campus life. TOAf DINAN was cliairman for the dinner. -. 
Also attending to honor the freshmen and to^' ans\%'cr their questions about the University were: JACK CORNELL, Club vice president; BILL SUM­MERS, DICK KIRK; JOHN O'CONNOR, now a salesman with U.S. Rubber in Boston; BOB SEARS, DICK HYL.AND; SAM MERRA, now an engineer with Arthur D. Little; PAUL SULLIVAN, TIM TOOMEY, CHUCK PATTERSON, BILL O'BRIEN, STEVE ROGERS, JOE GARGAN and ED CONROY. LOU DiGIOVANNI also attended the Social Hour which preceded the dinner, but left early. His wife just presented him with a new son — their fourth child. 
Proud alumni sending their sons to Notre Dame were TOM REID and JIM NEWMAN. 
The Boston Club's annual Family Outing wa'^ held on Sunday, June 21, 1959, at the Stonehlll College Campus In Northeastern, ^fassachusctts, (courtesy of our C.S.C. friends.) Over 100 Notre Dame mothers and lathers and 200 children took part In the fun provoking actinties. The number attending this ex'ent constituted a record in the history of the "Boston Club." 
Tlic ofitcers and directors of the Boston Club were invited to attend the New England Campus Club Dance held at the M.I.T. Faculty Club In Cambridge, Mass., on June 19, 1959. 
AVc were pleased to note that the affair was extremely well run by President AL PERlNI and-^ his committee and a gala time was had by all. f^ 
We expect that a good percentage of tliesc cur* rent students will become active members upon graduation. In this cxinnection our President Bill Daccy addressed the future members urging them to continue their spirit and participation after graduation. 
Another "first" for the Boston Club under the dynamic and capable leadership of our President BILL DACEY, M9, was the football trip to the Pittsburgh-Notre Dame game on November 14, 1959. 
Preliminary planning for the trip was aided by the experienced TIM TOOMEY, *30. The actual arrangements and promotion have been handled by.^ BILL DACEY with an assist from our treasurcD^ DOUG ROBERTSON, '55. 
A chartered plane ^vith 98 Boston Club members took off for Pittsburgh on the morning of the game. They attended the game, had dinner at one of 
Pitliburgh's famous restaurants, and returned to Boston Logan Airport the same evening'. • —JOHN P. ICVRLE, Sccj-. 
Buffalo 
Looking back to a too-short summer with a quick rcnctv of activities .. . JACK BOLx\ND, H5, and DON JACOBI, '35, with a great big assist from James J. Dunnigan, president of the Buffalo Raceway, presented the Notre Dame night at the Races for 1959. 
ART STATUTO, '48, assisted bv JLXf DONOG­HUE (formerly of Chicago), JERRY TERH.\AR, '30, and a host of other beer drinkers, put on the summer stag for 1939. . . . The Balling farm in Strv-kers^ille, N.Y., scene of the party, was a per­fect setting for the day's fun. . . . Club members 

^'camc by chartered bus, prix-atc cars, etc, and how cver^•one managed to make it back to his own home will not be solved until next year's effort is observed. . . . 
BUS PFEIL, '35, JACK EXDERS, '53, and their able committee managed to bring the largest gathering of all time to the Lancaster Countr>­Club for the 1959 Notre Dame Golf Tournament. . . . Coach BILL D^VDDIO hit the longest drive of the day .. . won a *'bottlc" for his efforts and gave us all a vcr>- interesting insight into the athletic picture at school. . . . This last was after a shower, a steak, and just to prove that he is also a big man at after dinner speaking. . . . Coach "D^' had such a good time during his stay in the 

• western New York area that he is going to recom­mend that his 1960 replacement be ''the" head coach himself. .. . It sure would be a pleasure to have Coacli JOE KUHARICH with us in 1960 .. . at the Buffalo Club Golf Tournament or any other time. . . . The Club golfing trophies were taken over for the next year by GERRY WEBSTER, Club champion (low gross) and JOE WATSON, H2 (low net). . . . JACK KUHL­MANN, '40, and BILL LA^VLESS, *44, finished nine holes in two and a half hours . . . and under their own povver. . . . Tliis is just in case their respective "little women'* believed that they played 
18. . . . 
The Pitt.-vs-Notrc Dame game was the "gather­ing of the Club" week end for the fall season. . . . 

AFour "Club" buses and two planes carried the group from the Buffalo area to Pittsburgh and the game. . . . Again JOHN ENDERS, '53, and HENRY BALLING, '52, handled all the details to make ever>'one's trip a most enjoyable one. 
JOE RYAN, '38, was lionored by being named "Father of the Year" for the Niagara Frontier for 1939. Tliis honor was besioived on him by the Men's and Boy's Wear Guild of Greater Buffalo. Tills was quite a surprise to Joe, who didn't know about his selection until bis return from bis Class Reunion last Father's Day, 1959. In return Joe pledged to take all bis friends to the N.D.­vs-Northwcstem game in South Bend for a small and nominal fee, of course. . . . 

^ MAURY QUINN, '37 and '38, was ably assisted 
miy BERNIE BIRD, '28 (1928, that is) have again reserv'ed the Passion Sunday week end, 1960, for the annual Notre Darac Club of Buffalo silent Re­treat. . . . Eighly-onc members arc expected to make their rcserx'ations now to insure adequate eating arrangements and the invitation of a retreat master from the campus. . . . 
At the first fall meeting of the club for 1959 John Ayers, Campus Club president, invited all the Notre Dame men of the area to the Going-Back­to-School dance at the Buffalo Launch Club on Grand Island. . . . FATHER JOSEPH BARRY, C.S.C, from the campus was the guest speaker at 

.^h c meeting and planned to stay over to cliaperonc 
^:hc dance. . . . 
TIic incoming freshmen for this year were guests of the Club at this meeting together uitli their Dads. Some of the Dads able to make the meet­ing ^ve^e Tliomas Neddy, Paul Seaman, James DiGiulio, John Fore>-s, James Kennedy, John >rolIoy, Francis Mc^^ahon, T. P. Davis and F. B. Perkins. -. . These Dads partictilarly enjoyed Father Barry's talk in which he outlined how these young fellows would return to these same Dads as Notre Dame AfENH 

The Alumwives (the strong right arm of the Buffalo N.D. Club) had a membership tea at the home of Ann Watson (wife of golf pro JOE WAT­SON). Many of the girls attended tlicir first gath­.^pring of this group at the Watsons and will become ^active members to enjoy the many mutual club sodal activities. .. . One of the "mutual" an­nouncements made was that Mr. and Mrs. DICK McBRIDE have become the parents of tuins. . . . Dick is out of the class of 1953 (I think) and these 
CHICAGO—^Bill Pfeiffer, DePaul Academy's all-state quarterback who ranks third aca­dcniically in his senior class of 203, receives the Knute Rockne Memorial trophy from Phil Faccenda, president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, at a special Rockne award luncheon held Dec 1 in the LaSallc Hotel. Shoi\'n at the presentation are: (K to r.) Faccenda; Rev. Thomas Munstcr, principal of DcPaul Academy; Tom O'Brien, head football coach at DePaul, and a\vard-^vinner Pfeiffer. The Rockne award is based on athletic ability, scholar­ship, sportsmanship, and leadership. 
arc children number 9 and 10. . . . It can be 
done!!! 
The Iiighlight of the holiday season for 1959 is the annual Christmas dance in the Hotel Statler Hilton Ballroom on Saturday night, December 26, 1939, with the big name band of the year supplying the music and tabic service a^'ailable to all who reserved early. . . . This is a three-u-ay dance, with the Campus Club, N.D. Alumwives and the Buffalo Alumni Club of Notre Dame participating. It is at this dance that the Campus Club selects the Queen for the 1959-60 season and the old-timers drool. . . . 
Former Dean CL/\RENCE MANION has ac­cepted the inWtation of the St. Columban Lay­men's Retreat League to speak at their Communion Breakfast January 17, 1960. 
This Breakfast will be for all members of St. Columbans Laymen's Retreat League and their friends from the Niagara Frontier. Nine o'clock Afass and Communion u-ill be celebrated by Very Rev. Josepli A. Burke, Bishop of Buffalo, at St. Joseph's Old Cathedral. Breakfast will be served at the Statler Hilton Hotel at 10 a.m. Dean Manion will be feature speaker of the morning. All Notre Dame men from the Niagara Frontier will be present at rcser\'ed tables at this Breakfast. 
Best to all for the Holiday Season and the year to come. —DON JACOBI, Secy. 
Calumet Region 
On Sunday, November 15, 1959, the Calumet Club held the .Annual Corporate Communion at St. Luke's Church in Gary, Ind. REV. THOMAS 
J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., field coordinator of alumni affairs at Notre Dame, was celebrant of 
9:30 Mass and attended the brunch, a sumptuous meal for N.D. families at the paiish ball. Special guest speaker u-as Bishop Andrew G. Grutka, in­vited for the second consecutive year. ED BURKE, BEN D.\NKO, JERRY SMITH and BOB WELSH were the committee for this event. 
Central California 
A meeting of the Central California Club ^%'as held August 3 in Fresno, and details were worked out for a dinner party honoring the boys going back to school and the new freshmen. 
Tlie dinner party was held August 27 at which ci'eryone enjoyed cocktails and excellent prime rib. Honored were Danyl Lamonica and Bob Hudson, the former a freshman and the latter a junior. 
In attendance were: DR. JOHN W. FREYE. '40; JOHN GROVES, '32; JOHN CELLA. '39; JI.M PAGLAIS.ATTI, '32; DR. WADE BEUCLAR. '30; TO.M MEEHAN and assodate members; JOHN SI.MONS, Mr. and Mrs. Hudson; Mr. and Mrs. Lamonica; Jack Bair, '38; Mike Kcyes, '25, and your secretary-. 

TIic wives of the above members also enjoyed the get-together. —H.\ROLD A. BAIR, *29. Secy. 
Central New Jersey 
In June the big affair for the Central Jersey Club wss the Class of *59 Welcome at the Park Hotel in Plainfield. 
JI.M SUTTER, PETE JANDRISEVITS and JOE MRAZ, the new alumni, appeared to enjoy the warm reception of the Central Jerseyitcs and the cool breezes of the hotel's air conditioning system (the temperature was in the 90's outside). 
JOHN WINBERRY, Foundation governor for New Jersey, u-as the principal speaker. John gave a very conWncing and interesting talk on the Foundation and the importance of making con­tributions to the University. 
Undergraduates present at the meeting ser\*ed on a "Bringing the Old Grads Up-to-Date on the Changes at the University" panel. This proved to be one of the highlights of the affair which was chairmaned by JOE SEPKOSKI. 
At the same Plainfield location, JACK Mc-KENNA chairmaned a very successful Student Farewell Night on September 9. The new Notre Dame men who attended were' George McGuire, John Dabrowski, Bob Carpenter, Dan Carey, Walt Bialous, Pete Hourihan, Bill Connolly, Bernard Beranek, Tom Ure and Jim Sidie. 
JOE SIMONS showed movies of the campus and the 1949 football highlights. Joe insisted that he would have the 1958 season film to show at the November meeting. (For the last two meetings be appeared with reel can labeled "1938 Football Highlights" only to find something else inside.) 
Pres. DAN GRACE, JACK READER and JACK DOYLE, serving as the nominating committee, huddled on a slate of officers to present at the November meeting election night. 
Tlie Central Jersey Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was held on December IS ia Plainfield. Jack Reager worked with his com­mittee to firm-up arrangements. Details will be presented in the next issue, with the names of the new officers. 
—JOE SEPKOSKI, Secy. 

Central New York 
(SYRACUSE) The Notre Dame Club of Central New York (Syracuse) held their Annual Family Picnic on 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 2959 23 
July 12 at Green Lakes State Park outside of Syracuse. 
Some of the club members shou-n in the back row of 3 photo in this Issue are AL HUNDSH^VM­MER, 52; CHARLIE GEHERIN, '31; JOHN HART TERRY, '44; J. GARVEY JONES, '52, Club president, and DAN KELLEY, MI. 
In the front row are shown RALPH TAYLOR, '55; JOHN Mc\ULIFFE, '39; BILL LYONS, '31, and JIM SCHMIDT, '55. 
Tltc picnic was arranged by the Ladies Auxiliarv­with ^Irs. Dan Kelly acting as general diainnan. About 150 attended. —HOBY SHE/\N, '31 
The Club held its Annual Scnd-OfT and Club party, Tuesday, September 8 at tlic BcIIeNTie Country' Club in S>Tacu5e- /Vbout twenty members played golf and the dinner tvas attended by ap­proximately 75 alumni, students and fathers of students. Tlie incoming freshmen and their fathers attended as guests of the Alumni Club. 
Father Lavin, assistant pastor of Holy Family Churcli In Fairmont, New York, was our main speaker and he gave a very inspiring address. The films of the 1958 Syracuse-Penn State game were shown after the dinner. 
Following the entertainment. Alumni Club elec­tions were held and the following new slate of officers unanimously elected: WILLIAM V. D>\'\'ER, '46, president; PAUL E. MICKEY, '40, vice president; JOHN R. VARNEY, '53, secretar>-, and WILLLVNf HASSETT, '47, treasurer. 
Our next scheduled events were a Smoker, Octo­ber 3, xmd the 22nd .Annual Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday on December 6. A pri\-atc Mass at Rosary Cliapcl u-as followed by a family breakfast at Dnimlins, addressed by the Vcr>* Rev. Robert 
F. Grewen, S.J., president of LcMo>-nc College. A prc-breakfast coffee bar and movies for the children were added attractions. FRED DeL/VNY was cliaimian. 
—J. GARVEY JONES, '52 
Chicago 
A little weather never stopped a Notre Dame man, especially the species that remembers the long freshman year hikes to the main dining hall. 

The weatlierman did cver>'tlilng in his power to wash out the 1959 Chicr^o Club Golf Tournament and Sportsniglit Dinner with a torrential morning downpour, but the golfers tlironged to the first tee shortly after noon on August 3 at suburban Elmhurst Country* Club to tackle par. In fact, 189 golfers — toughened by trips through not-yct­forgotten Badin Bog in a t^-plcal South Bend "monsoon" — waded through puddles that often resembled small lakes to complete their tour of the sporty course. 
By dinner time the clouds had passed and 275 attended tlie big Sportsnight Dinner. Most of the golfers and dinner-only guests got in the sports mood by catcliing the early innings of the *'second" All-Star baseball game on telc\*ision. 
JACK QUINLAN, '48, who broadcasts all Chi­cago Cub baseball games on Station WGN, serx'ed as toastmastcr for the event. Qulnlan's sports stories. Including several about his "athletic" class­mates at Notre Dame, stamped him as one of the most entertaining speakers In the Iiistor>' of this annual summer event. 
Although the heavy morning rains forced most of tlic Innted University guests to stay in South Bend, four members of Coacli JOE KUHxVRICH's football staff were on hand to preview the 1959 Fighting Irish. (.-Mthough Coacli Kuharich was attending a coacliing clinic in the south, approxi­mately 400 N.D. men and guests greeted the new coaching staff and tlieir wives at dinner on August 16 in tlic Hawthorne Race Track clubhouse.) 
Freshman Coach HUGH DEVORE entertained the cro%vd with stories garnered during his long coacliing career, and predicted that Notre Dame would field an aggressive team In the fall. Other members of Coach Kuharich's staff attending the dinner were DON DOLL, DICK ST/\NFEL and DAVE SLATTERY. 
Two former Notre Dame football coaches — HUNK ANDERSON and TERRY BRENTCAN — also participated In the day's activities. 
Colonel Fred Suite, owner of Elmhurst Countr>' Club, served as host for the day's festivities. Follow­ing the larish dinner. Col. Snitc presented JIM CELANO, '53, with tlie golf trophy. 
Celano's third low-gross \ictor>' in the annual tournament enabled him to retire the FREDERICK 
B. SNITE trophy. The diminutive slugger copped this year's leg of the trophy with a sparkling 74 over tlic rain-soaked crourse. 
More than ICO prizes — including a $140 set 

24 Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 
DETROIT — \\'heii Van Wallace, '27, paral}-zed since his undergraduate days, received a new* special car from Detroit alumni, golf pros Sam Sncad (right) and Joe Kuharich were among the w*ell-iv*ishers. 
of irons . . . wide range of golf equipment . . . gift boxes of wine and foodstuffs . . . tickets to x'ari­ous sporting events in the Chicago area... and many other quality gifts — were distributed after dinner. The grand prize, a round trip ticket on the Club's jet flight to the Califomia game, was won bv FRANCIS PAULSEN, '46. 
General chairman for this year's Golf Tourna­ment and Sportsnight Dinner was JOHN URBAIN, '52, who almost picked up a full head of gmy hair when the rains descended on the morning of the outing. Jack was forced to cancel the closed cir­cuit TV setup and several extra golf contests, but all tliose In attendance agreed tliat Chairman Urbain earned the big round of applause he received at the dinner. 
Club President PHIL FACCENDA, '51, assisted Urbain with preliminary preparations and an­nounced that the Club hopes to realize a substan­tial profit for the Scholarship Fund from its jet flight to San Francisco for the California game. 

Committee chairmen for the successful outing included: HANK McCORMACK, '52. secrctao*; BOB KING, *52, and JIM JENNINGS, 51, games committee; TO.M FOLEY, '52, general arrange­ments; BUD ORR, '52, and BILL ^\THTE, 52, ticket sales; a.nd PAUL FULLMER, publlcliv. 
—PAUL FULLMER, '55 
(Ed Note: For news of another of many Chicago 

GRAND RAPIDS & WESTERN MICHI­GAN — Jack McElwcc, '31, photo editor of the Grand Rapids Press, snapped former Captain Tom Roach among 250 members and friends attending the Michigan State game in Lansing on five buses from Grand Rapids. 
activities, see "Freshman Fathers Reception" In the front of this issue. J.L.) ^ . 
Cincinnati 
At our regular June meeting new officers were 

elected. Tliey were JOHN CRONIN, '48, presi­
dent; TOM GROTE. '50, vice president; JOHN 
LA BAR, '53, treasurer, and BARRY SAVAGE, '54, 
secretary'. 
The first effort of the Club in the fall was a 

picnic on September 8 to welcome incoming fresh­
men and their dads. The attendance was about 120 
including 22 freshmen and 14 fathers who were our 
guests. The afTalr was run by CHUCK LIMA. 
'58, and NAT BOND, '40. .\ welcome guest was 
JOHN MacCAULEY, '41, of the Notre Dame 
Foundation office. The alumni beat the studenta^f^ 
in a Softball game 3-2 aided Immeasurably bx*"-*^ 
P.\UL KELLEY, *54, who pitclicd for the students. 
Our next meeting was held October 6 at Music 

Hall to show the membership the new site of our 
Scholarship ball, held New Year's Eve this past 
year and run by JACK F.WRET, '49. 
—BARRY SAVxVGE, '54, Secy. 

Cleveland 
The Reverend P. Joyce u-as the guest of honor at the annual golf party held at the Manl­klkl Countr>' Club on July 30. Over 125 members and guests turned out for the sportive occasion, making this year's golf party one of the best lu-^ years. Playing with Father Jovce were three out; ^ standing duffers, JOHN P. MURPHY, HUGH" O'NEILL and Club President PAUL LILLIS. Their score cards are still a well guarded secret. GEORGE IZO from nearby Barberton, Ohio at­tended as the special guest of the club. REV. BERNARD BI^VTT, Chaplain of the Club, said grace. Chairmen of this year's golf partv were JOHN REIDY, JR., and JOE SCHREINER, who may inherit this as a permanent job because of their splendid efforts in organizing the party. JOHN CHAPL.\, JERRY .McGR-ATH, JOHN COYNE and BOB STACK lent their assistance. 
Tlic annual husband-and-wife retreat, July 30 

to August 2, was held at Our Lady of Fatima Re­
treat House at Notre Dame, Indiana. JOHN 
CHAPL/V was chairman of this year's retreat. As^.. 
sisting him were FR^VNK X. CULL and GEORGE 
KERVER. .Approximately 20 couples from the 
greater Cleveland area attended the retreat, and 
again this year the retrcatants had nothing but 
praises for the benefits derived from their brief 
respite from tlic business world. 
Gllmour Academy was again the site of the 

family picnic held August 16. The 300 club 
members, u-ives and children who attended the 
affair enjoyed a beautiful summer day of swim­
ming, baseball games, and "'refreshments." D.-WE 
aXRTAVRIGHT was chairman of the picnic. Help­
ing to make the dav a success were DAVE CHAM­
PION, TOM HOR/\K, JOE PROCOP and LEO 
BURBY. Our thanks go out to the Brothers of 
Gilmour Academy for their usual fine hospitality,^ 
The members of the Notre Dame Club of Cleve­land wish to extend their deepest s'^'mpathy to PAT CiVNNY, whose wife passed away on August 
25. Mrs. Canny had long been an ardent friend and supporter of the members and friends of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. 
The members of the Club also wish to extend their -sxTiipathy to Mrs. William Byrne whose hus­band, BILL BYRNE, Class of '55, was recently killed while (lying his marine jet to Chicago to visit his wife. 
On September 8 the Club conducted its Second Annual New Freshmen and Father's Night at Rohr's Restaurant. JOHN MENDENHALL served*) as chairman for the meeting. Another large turn­out this year, together with the spontaneous in­terest shown by the members of the Club during the question and answer period, should assure the long continuance of this event by our Club. 
TIic Scholarship Drive, with an all-expense-paid trip to the Notre Dame-Nav>' game as top prize, was held October 20 amidst a turnout of over 75 members. TOM MULLIGAN and JOHN MEN­DENHALL, by their splendid efforts, assured the Scholarship Fund of another large donation this year. THOMAS BREMER and JOHN COYNE, both attorney's from Cleveland, were co-\vinners of this prize. Tlie officers of the Club wish to ex­tend their sincere thanks to all of the members^ and their friends of Notre Dame who purcliasccr^ tickets for this \^'orthy cause. 
REV. THEODORE HESBURGH was guest of honor on November 19, for tlie klckoff for the Annual Cleveland Club Notre Dame Foundation Drive. Ttic luncheon ' turnout of more than 100 
Amcmbcrs assured co-chairmen K/VRL MARTER­
^STECK and JOHN J. REIDY that Cleveland ^viIl remain among the top cities in percentage of alumni contributors. Father Hesburgh, before a select crowd of Cleveland Alumni that same night, had a supper held in his honor at the Union Club. 
Former Dean of the College of Lau- CLfVRENCE *'PAT'* MAXION, was guest speaker on December 6 for the Family Communion Breakfast held at St. John's Cathedral and at the Statlcr Hilton Hotel. Dean ^fanion's outstanding address regarding the role of Catholics against totalitarianism in America made a deep impression upon all who attended the breakfast. TO.NI BREMER ser\-ed as cliainnan. 
RAY T. MILLER entertained Mr. Manion in his 

• home the night before at a cocktiul party with many Cleveland classmates and friends. Tlic Yule­tide season was completed by the Chrbtmas dance at the Slatler-Hiiton imder the capable chairman­jhlp of PATRICK aVXNOX. 
The members of the Cleveland Club wish to ex­tend their congratulations to ROBERT STACIC on his recent promotion. However, his transfer to Xcw York City is a blow to the Club since Bob has al­^^•ays been one of our best workers and supporters. Good luck to you. Bob, in your new position. 

Best wishes to all for 1960! DATES TO REMEMBER: January 26. 1960—General business meeting, show­ing of 1959 football highlights. AApril 3—Rockne Communion Breakfast. .April 21—Universal Xotre Dame Night and election of new officers. 
—JOHN P. COYNE, Corrcs. Secy. 
Columbus 
Tlie Columbus Club's annual going-away party for the departing students was held at the City Club Country Club on the afternoon of Tuesday, September 8. t\s in previous years', it was one of the best attended affairs sponsored by the Colum­bus chapter. Tlic entire club wishes to take this opportunity to express a deep thanks and a "well done'* to HARRY NESTER and his committee for 

ftthcir usual fine job in making this perennial gather­ing such a success. DR. TOM HUGHES is once again in charge of the annual Foundation Fund drive. Tlic I960 cam­paign was started with a meeting of the \-arious committees on the evening of September 22. Every­one interested in Notre Dame's future should try and make '60 a 1(K) per cent contribution year in the Columbus area. 
.Another of the popular dinner-meetings w-ill have been held in the latter part of October for the members and tlieir wix'es or families. ^\s of this writing, arrangements were still being made, how­ever all particulars concerning this meeting will have been sent to all members on the 1959 mailing list. The committee in charge of the affair ex­
^pecled as formidable a turnout as attended the ]Ast similar occasion in February. Tlie membership drive which took place this summer has resulted in one of the largest active memberships in the local chapter's history and indicates bigger and better activities in the future. .Anyone who has not been contacted in the Co­lumbus area concerning club membership should notify: PAT CANTWELL, 3191 Vanderburg Road, Columbus 4, Ohio. 
—MICHAEL N. aVNTWELL. Secy. 

Dallas 
P The big winter event in Dallas was the annual Christmas Ball at the Sheraton Hotel December 26. SAM WING and UAL TEH^VN were co-chairmen of the gala affair, which featured dancing to Jimmy Joy's orchestra and special corsages. Pro­ceeds went to the scholarship fund. 
President JACK SCHROETER had JAKE REICHENSTEIN and GEO. KER\aN plan our Communion Breakfast in the month of October, and plans were formulated by B. J. McMEEL, vice president, for a "back-to-school" smoker to kick-off the football season. 
A Notre Dame Retreat was held in August at the Jesuit Retreat House on Lake Dallas. Tlie Club had a most successful dinner-dance July 14, with a turnout of over one hundred people 
Penjoying a buffet dinner, swimming and dancing at the Great Southwest Club midway between Dallas and Fort Worth. Fort Worth's Notre Dame friends joined in on the fun. 
Since Notre Dame did not play SMU this year, a great many of the members of the local club 
made plans to attend one of the home games on the campus. —.MARTIN R. O'CONNOR, Secy. 
Dearborn 
The sixth annual Golf Party of the Notre Dame Club of Dearborn was held August 13, 1959, at Glen Oaks Country Club. A day of golf was fol­lowed by a steak dinner and prize awards. LEE LaROCQUE was in charge. 
A September meeting was held at the home of JOHN FISH, SR., and DICK KING hosted an October meeting which included the football draw­ing. The Club also sponsored four special buses to the N.D.-^tichigan State game in Lansing. 
November included a meeting at the home of JERRY SARB and the Tri-University Dance at the Western Countr\- Club in Rcdford, Mich. 
Decatur 
Our year came to a fast close with our annual meeting on October 21. STEVE "FLY-BOY*' GR(\LIKER was chairman. Elected to succeed the '59 leaders were: MILT BE.AUDINE, president; JI.M UHL, vice president; ALL.\N LANDOLT, 5ccretar>-, and GEORGE HUBBARD, treasurer. Directors are WM. T. DOWNING, JAMES J. .MOR.\N, JR., and EUGENE F. FOR.\N. JR. 
We can chalk up another success to JOHN FOY who monitored our annual stag on July 9. The men were out in force including **MAVERICK" L.ANDOLT who is quite an ace with the paste­boards. He BOUGHT three or four hands before the evening was over. Speaking of poker, I wonder if SY R^\PIER can give us a definition of "SAND­BAGGING"??? .Actually the game was pretty even — ask GEORGE HUBBARD. Wc are most pleased to announce a new record for our monthly luncheons, still held on the fourth Wednesdays, 
12:00 p.m., Grieders Mezzanine. On July 24, 1959 we had 17 N.D.'crs. Even CHARLIE CORCOR^VN and TOM HOLL.\ND from Springfield showed up. BOB MURR.AY and JACK MULLIGAN took time off from making glass (Pittsburgh Plate, Mount Zion, Illinois) to make their first appearance since moving to the area. PO\'NTELLE DOWNING, his son Bill, GEORGE HUBBARD and .MILT BE.\UDINE, made it back 
to the Golden Dome for our reunions in June. AVords can't describe it. Thanks, Noire Dame. 
Our Communion breakfast was held on December 
13. JIM UHL was chairman. A couple of new members are "RICH" McDONALD, '55, (George­town Law School too), and his father, E. C. MC­DONALD. Wc hope to see lots more of- them. JOE DONOV.-VN is now selling life insurance (an­other one?) and is still living in IlliopoHs. AS­DREW CH/VN has left Decatur for points South and East. Good luck, Andy!! The new "Thrifty Drug Store" opened recently in Northland Heights with BERN.ARD J. DWYER at the helm. I un­derstand N.D. men get special rates, ifary Ann Hubbard, wife of GEORGE H. HUBBARD, pre­sented George with an 8 lb. 6 oz. girl — Anne 

Marie. BOB WRIGHT (Cindnnati) expected to 
get married in October. Bob qualifies for mention 
in the Decatur Article because he spent a night 
here a year ago, besides I don't think Cindnnati 
will have a thing to do with him. (He also writes 
me mean letters.) That's about it. 
—MILT BEAUDINE, *54, Pres. 

Delaware 
Since last spring the Delaware Club officers have been JAMES J. COLE.M.\N, president; THOMAS 
J. CAMPBELL, vice president, and yours truly, DICK HAIRSINE, secretary. 
On August 22, 1959, President JIM COLEMAN 

presented a trophy sponsored by the club to the 
"Outstanding Player" in the Delaware All-Star 
Football Game. Tlie recipient was Ken Reeder, a 
1959 graduate of Salesianum Roman Catholic High 
School in Wilmington. Tlie proceeds of the game 
are given to the Delaware Foundation for Retarded 
Children. 
Tlic annual club picnic was held on September 

13, 1959, to give the returning students and fresh­
men a send off for the school year. The affair was 
a success for the students, alumni, and their 
families. 
A dinner mcctintj was held in October at the duPont Country Club in Wilmington to kick off the year's activities. Tlie first big affair -was a dub sponsored trip to the Pittsburgh game on No­vember 14. It was anticipated that about 80 alumni and friends of Notre Dame would make the trip. 
RICHARD P. HAIRSINE, '55, Secy. 

Denver 
The Denver Notre Dame Club held it's second annual Sports Luncheon recently at Denver's his­toric Brown Palace Hotel. Eighty-seven Denver area alumni were in attendance to hear featured speaker COL. GEORGE B. SIMLER, director of Athletics of the U.S. .Air Force Academy. Even though the first gridiron meeting between Notre Dame and the Air Force Academy will not take place until 1954. Col, Simler pointed out the two schools have already met in two other competitive sports, fendng and basketball. The first Denver appearance of a Notre Dame athletic squad in many a year took place this winter when JOHN JORD^XN brought his Irish hoopsters west to beat the Air Academy. 
Many Notre Dame sports greats were in atten­dance at the Sports Luncheon. The affair was ^LC.'d by JOHN DEE, former N.D. basketball star and now coach of the National Industrial Basketball League champion Denver-Chicago Truck­ers. Also at the speakers table were former N.D. All-/Vmerican JOHN LATTNER, '54, presently backficid coach at Denver Univcrsitv, and FRANK "BLACKIE" JOHNSTON, '54, a member of the 
N.D. national champion football team of 1949. Blackie is now freshman coach at Colorado Uni­versity. 
Highlights of the luncheon was a lelephone-P..A. 

CLEVELAND — Notre Dame Foundation Luncheon principals included: (seated, I. to r.) John J. Rcidy, co-chairman; Father Hesburgh; Karl Marterstcck, co-chairman; Rev. John Wilson, C.S.C., acting Foundation director; John MacCauley, area director; (standing. I. to r.) Cleveland Club Chaplain Rev. Bernard A. Blatt, Robert Stack, Rich.-u^d H. Miller, Robert Lally, A. A. Sommer, Thomas Kelly and Charles Mooney. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 25 
hookup witli coach HUGH DEVORE at Xotrc Dame. De\*orc v-'os intcmcwcd by Lattner. All in attendance left with a mucli clearer idea of the *59 Notre Dame football picture. 
Seventy-two mothers, fathers and children crammed Conway Park, located in the Rockies just west of Denver, for the annual Denver Notre Dame Club Picnic. Families supplied their own dinners while cool drinks and ice cream were supplied by the club. No cliild went home without a prize and no father bounced from bed the next morning without stIfT muscles following an afternoon of races, softball and horseshoe pitching. The picnic was an afternoon affair but some ambitious souU preceded it with a morning round of golf on the beautiful mountain course in nearby Evergreen. 
One of the most successful sodal events ever held by the Denver Xotrc Dame club was this falFs tour of Coors Brewerx', located in nearby Golden. Colorado. Over 100 were in attendance for this night of fun that was arranged bv former club president JIM SHEEHr\N. HlgliHglit of the eve­ning was the film shmvlng of last spring's Old Timers Football game. The evening certainly pro­moted fooiball spirit and was most timely with the opening Notre Dame-North Carolina football game coming just two days later. 
Denvcrites were shocked by the death of BART O'HARA, '32, in October. Back in -Xugust Bart had entertained ten prospective N.D. freshmen from the Denver area at his home, along with sports notables KEN ADAMSON, JOHN L-VIT­NER, Vl.VCE BORYLA and JOHN DEE. Tlie freshmen included the sons of JAMES P. LOGAN, '16, and MARK. KERIN, '36, and Bart's own son Bart, Jr. The '58 football highlights and N.D. color film were shown. Tlie gesture was t>-pical of Bart, who will be sorely missed. 
Our 1959 club dlrectorv* went into the mall back in July. Tlu-re was an increase of better than 20 per cent over our '57 directory-. . . . 203 names in the new one as opposed lo 166 in the old. It's heartening lo note that Denver Notre Damers are increasing in proportion with the city itself. 
Newly inaugurated by club president LEON ARCHER are club luncheons whicli take place at noon on the first Wednesday of cver\' month. Attendance has been heartening. Any out of town businessmen who might have a Denver slop sclicd­nlcd for ihc first Wednesday of any month arc cordially invited to join us at the Old Navarre restauracl. 
—ROBERT ZEIS, '54, Seo'. 
Detroit 
The Detroit Club golf outing last summer under JOHN PANELLI would ha\'c been a tremendous success even if no golfers luid shown up. Tlie reason was the renewal of a great local tradition, the presentation of a third special car to brave VAN WALLACE, '27, who has spent 35 years in total p3ral>-sis, to enable him to attend football games in the fall. To follow gift cars in 1937 and 1947, Van received a ne%v Ford station wagon equipped to carx^- his cot. Former Club President JOE CAREY was named chairman of a fund to finance the gift and decided to rely on voluntary-contributions rather than assess the members, but the size of the bill warrants the cooperation of all Detroilcrs. 
Because of Labor Day on the first Monday of September, the Club Luncheon was held on Sept. 14, and on Sept. 16 the annual Football Kickoff Party at the Veteran's Memorial Building fea­tured MOOSE KRAUSE and a prcncu- of the 
M.S.U. clash with guest coaches from the riral school. BOB CRONIN and TOM \'ERBIEST were co-chairmen. 
At the October 5 Luncheon at Ye Oldc Wa>Tic Club plans were set for inexpensive chartered bus transportation to the MIcliIgan State game in Lan­sing October 17. Buses left Botsford Inn late that Saturday morning. Tlie Detroit Club also ran a cliartcrcd Grand Trunk train to South Bend for the Northwestern fracas on the following Saturday. President DON HERRON and ED GAGE handled arrangements. 
Mid-season football setbacks made for plenty of Monday quartcrbacking at the Nov. 2 luncheon, and the December 7 meeting, beside commemorat­ing Pearl Harbor, previewed a month of great activity, including European pictures, the Com­munion Breakfast and the Christmas Dance. 
The Notre Dame Evening in Europe on Friday, Dec II, at Terova's Rathskeller, presented movies and slides to preview the 23-day Notre Dame Pilgrimage to Europe in March, conceived by ED RONEV, JR., JERRY ASHLEY, and other Detroit­crs. The evening promised optional seafood din­ners and refreshments. 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus^ December, 1959 

DENVER — Among Denver area N. D. freshmen and sports celebrities invited to the home of Bart O'Hara, '32, before his untimely death in the fall, were: (standing, I. to r.) Ken Adamson, 1959 football captain; freshmen Tom Rogers, Bill Jordan, George Kerin, Patrick Logan and Michael Sullivan; John Lattner,'54, assistant coach, XJ. of Denver; (seated, 1. tor.) freshmen Bart M. O'Hara (Bart's son); Larry Griffin; Gene BHsh, Jr. (Denver Club Scholarship winner); Bill Haley, and Joseph Rhone. 
On December 13 Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday was observed at the Shrine of the Little Flower in Royal Oak. Tlic pastor, Father Charles Coughlin, preached a special sermon on the occasion. Breakfast followed at Oakland Hills Countrv Club in Birmingham, with an address by FATHER THOMAS 0*DONNELL, special club ambassador from the campus. The theme was the First Amendment and the essentially religious na­ture of our democracy' under the patronage of the Immaculate Conception. PETER J. KERNAN, JR., was chairman, assisted by LEO BRENN.AN, JOE CAREY, BILL CARROLL, NOR^L\N FREDERICKS, ED RONEY, J. J. GORM.VN, ED HICKEY and JERRY SARB. 
ED HICKEY and JACK AfURR.\Y were in charge of the Alumni Christmas Party held Dec. 26 at the Statlcr-Hilton in conjunction with the Campus Club Dance. 
Coming events include the Manresa Retreat in March under the chairmanship of MATT GAR­RIGAN, the Annual Meeting and Election, to be run by JOHN ANHUT, also in Marcli, and April's U.N.D. Night, to be managed by JOE CAREY. Don't forget the first Monday Monthly Lunclieons at the Wayne Club. 
Eastern Illinois 
Because our secretary' was transferred, we have been negligent in our correspondence. To bring the records up to date, we had our annual elec­tion and dinner last .April 6 w*ith about 40 alumni and wives attending. 
The following new officers were elected: JOHN BELTON, JR., '31, Danville, president; RALPH DALTON, *31, ncc president; NICK MUELHAPT, '52, treasurer, and BOB WICKHAM, '54. sccre­tarv. Our chaplain is REV. C. B. MOTSETT, '31. 
Zeke Bratkowski, Chicago Bears star, was our principal speaker, and highlight films of the N.D. 1958 football season were shown. 
In the fall the Eastern Illinois Club ran two cliartcred bu;cs of alumni to the Purdue-N.D. game. 
—L. C. HAHNE, JR., *49, Acting Sec>-. 
Eastern Indiana 
Muncie, Ind.. look special notice of the 50th an­niversary of the "Notre Dame Victory Marcli,'* celebrated on campus at the Georgia Tech game by a tribute to lyricist JOHN SHEA and his com­poser brother the late REV. MICHAEL SHEA, CS.C. Tlie interest was due to a special tribute by Muncie Star sports editor Bob Bamet in his column "After the Ball," sent in by Eastern Indi­ana Secretary DICK GREENE, also a Star staffer. 
Fort Wayne 
The Fort Wayne Notre Dame Club concluded its summer season with a mixed doubles golf outing on June 10. Mr. and Mrs. KENNETH T. SEY­
*! 

MOUR were co-chairmen for this affair which was 
held at the Elks C»untr>- Club. Golfing was fol­
lowed by a well-attended dinner in the dub dining-
room. 
Following dinner, M. C. DICK ROSENTHAL introduced COACH JOHN JORD.VN who ver>­graciously accepted the prize for low score of the day, after briefly discussing the University athletic program. 
President PAUL SCHIR.MEYER announced the follou-ing programs and chairmen for later events. AL YOUN'GHAUS was cliairman of the annual football smoker Oct. 14 and introduced guest*) speakers BILLIARD G.ATES and JOE BOLAND. DR. BOB GETTY and ED LaROCQUE were co-chairmen for the annual ''Irish Sweepstakes" held for the benefit of the Club's Scholarship Fund. 
JOSEPH P. COLLIGAN was program chairman of the annual Notre Dame Communion and Break­fast. Fathers and sons went to Mass at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception and break­fast followed at the Kccnan Hotel. REV. STAN­LEY PARRY, CS.C , head of the political science department at Notre Dame, was the guest speaker on the First Amendment and the religious nature of citizensiilp. 
Alumni and students got together at the annual Notre Dame Christmas Dance Dec. 26 at the^. Orchard Ridge Countr>- Club, _/ 
—ROBERT R. LUTHER, Sec>'. 

Grand Rapids and W. Michigan 
A most successful fall golf stag ^^•as held, with a family tj-pe dinner in the evening at Cascade Country club. Distinguished guests of honor were Mr. and Mrs. JIM ARMSTRONG and MOOSE KRAUSE. CHUCK DUFFY and FRED CAST headed the event, and the membership acclaimed the party a success. Moose and BISHOP BAB­COCK held their unbeaten golf \-ictor>- chain intact against fierce competition. _^. 
A bus excursion to the Michigan Statc-Notre~J^ Dame Game in East Lansing was filled to capacity with 250 alumni, friends and families. Just to mention a few of those attending: Co-Chairman JOE MOORE, GEORGE JACKABOICE; CHUCK, BOB, and DAN DUFFY; JOHN ALT; JOHN and PAUL FLANAG.AN, ED and JIM .McDERMOTT; JOHN BROGGER, ARNOLD LEVANDOSKI, FRANK FALLON, ED FRITZ, brother PHIL FRITZ, BOB KIRCHESSNER, GEORGE WEISS, DICK McCOR.MICK, ED RYAN, OSCAR KAS­TEN, TOM CAMPBELL, FRED GAST, JACK McELWEE, JOE MEAD, JOHN DEEB, PAUL FORTINO, ED DUNN, JIM DELANEY, TOM ROACH, and JERRY MULVIHILL. 
A rcwal of a general membership meeting, undcr>^ the guidance of BOB LINDS.AY, was held at the -* 
K. of C Hall. From all indications. Bob is going to chairman four such meetings a year. Some of the people who attended to chcw over old times and a sandwich were DR. TOM HAYES, JOE 
MEAD, JOHN FLANAGAN, LEO WALSH, ^FRAN K THR^VLL, and GEORGE BROGGER. 9 Some of the lads that have attended one or all 
of the above and missed mention are ED BREN­NAN, DON HANEY (a ncu- father at that), FRANK GEARY, DAN KOZAK. ED LEACH, HARRY MERDZINSKI, BOB MURPHY, JOHN RANDALL. ED TOU'EHEY, BUD ROSEWARNE, and FRANK ST/WITZEK. 
FRANK FALLON attended the board of ad­visors of the I-aw School meeting, held the week end of the Cal game. We are very proud of Frank's membership on this distinguished board. 
A Christmas partv report next Issue. —J. T. MULVIHILL, Prcs. 

fGuam 
A little excitement came to our tiny "outpost" club last Slimmer when two Notre Dame seniors, Gordon O. Berg and John P. Aycrs, arrived on Guam as members of a group of NROTC mid­shipmen on summer cruise. It gave us a wonderful opportunity to have a get-together and have our traveling guests bring tis up-to-date on Notre Dame afTalrs. 
One of our members, FRED BORDALIO, '55, left last month to enter Notre Dame Law School. Fred, who graduated from the College of Commerce four years ago with a B.A. In Accounting, re­ceived the Government of Guam's first professional scholarship award which Includes room, board, and tuition expenses. 

• DR. PAUL J. SL/WrEN, a Navy dentist, joined our group recently when he arrived on Guam for duty with ihj U. S. Naral Dental Clinic. Paul attended the University in 1952 and 1953 prior to enrolling at Marquette University Dental School. 
AVc arc cruising along with ten members, only four of whom arc permanent residents of the island. FRED BORDALLO*s departure means a loss of 10 per cent of our membership. However in a few years wc hope to solve this deficiency'. Two prospective Notre Dame men were born re­cently — one to JOAQUIN G. BL^VZ, '56, a son, Tony, and one to V. T. BL/VZ, '51, a son. Tommy. So perhaps in time our membership problem will be solved. 
Incidentally, wc now have an "oflnciaV* address: 

• Notre Dame Club of Guam, P.O. Bo.x 2002, -Vgana, 
Guam. —V. T. BL.AZ, *5I, Pres. 
Houston 
Tlic annu-il Fall Picnic was held on September 14, 1959 at tlic New Champion's Golf Club in Houston. Despite the imscasonably cool weather, evcr\'one cnj'oycd the delicious barbecue and swim­ming. It was gratifying to meet so many of the new freshmen and the parents as well as greeting old friends. 

Early in the summer the Notre Dame men gath­ered at Byron's Barbeque for a barbecue dinner and ^brcr bust. 
The Houston club is ver>' anxious to locate those alumni of the area who arc not on our nialling list, so please make yourself kno\vn. 
.•\ lavish Christmas Dance was planned, and the details will be reported in the next Issue. —E. D. .McCRORY, Secy. 
Indianapolis 
Vou can be "asstircd" that we will never say anything against a Notre Dame Club or doss sec­retary. When we finally get down to work, the scribe never knows when or where to begin his > epistle. Since our last writing was at the start of the summer season, wc will tr>* to coordinate the various items Into three difTcrcnt classifications: P.AST EVENTS: The Hoosicr Capital's golf trophy was won by Tournament Chairman JOHN FOLEY, captain of the campus golf team In '55, but only after an extra hole playoff with DON WILLIAMS, '59, another former Irish golf team member. Before all o{ the prizes were banded out at this most successful golf outing and dinner, we heard a few Interesting items from JOE SCUDERO, new, popular Irish assistant coach. .-Vmong the many lionored guests was GHx\RLIE CALL.\HAN. He was there to present our recent *'Granlland Rice Award" winning sportswrllcr, BILL FOX, '20, an Honorar>- Monogram Club Letter Sweater. I Among golfers burning the course were our ^tost 
' Reverend Arclibishop, FATHER TOM BRENNAN, *'SR.," C.S.C., our Mayor; and various coaches from the colleges and high schools throughout the area. 
The N.D. Indianapolis Campus Club held a 
picnic and a dance In honor o{ the 19 freshmen 
from here and surrounding cities before they started 
school In September. 
Our regular weekly Informal luncheons arc be­
coming ver>' popular because of the close alumni 
relationship It brings and the fact that the "'Thurs­
day .Afternoon Quarterbacks" can talk to other 
strong Irish backers and have no one to interrupt 
them. 
CURRENT AFFAIRS: (Future, as of my Sept. writing.) Tlie big news around this city concerns our closed circuit telecasts of the Iowa and Pitt "away" games. Since our club with its 500 mem­bers will no longer run a train up to a home game, we have put full emphasis on this new proj­ect for the purpose of keeping our Scholarship Fund in complete operation. We hope to make this an annual highlight of our club's local ac­tivities. Tlie possibility of bringing In the Army game in future vcars was received very enthusi­astically. JLM ^\'ELCH, '50 and JACK BREZETTE, '54, chairmen, have Indicated receiving a great deal of help for the Scholarship Fund Project from manv groups, such as the FITZGERALDS. 
TOM MATEY, '53, the 1959 District GoU run­nerup. was the chairman for our Father and Son Corporate Communion-Breakfast on Sunday, the 6th of December. At least 150 men arc looking forward to this great event because REV. THEO­DORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C., president of the University, agreed to be our speaker. Tlic break­fast was held at the I. U. Medical Center and was preceded by a Mass at the Cathedral. 
The Christmas season brought a double treat for the local alumni. On December 22 and 23 Butler again hosted the Hoosier Classic and shared the spotlight with Indiana, Purdue, and Notre Dame. Then on December 26 wc held our big Christmas Formal Dance that had for the first time a chair­man from the /UumnI Club, BILL MOONEY, JR., '57, and a chairman from the local Campus Club, ED FILLENWORTH, '61. In the past this was sponsored by the students; however, our president and hoard of directors now want to stress more alumni interest in this social affair. 
LOCAL PERSONALITIES: MIKE MOONEY, '56, has joined the Franciscan priests and Is now in Ills novitiate In TentopoIIs, Illinois. . . . BOB KIRBY, '28, a Vice President of the community-owned baseball team, has led their anticipated goal for attendance well over the top. . . . ED McNA-M.\R.\, '43, finished another successful season as director of harness racing at the Indiana State Fair. .. . Big JOHN BRENNAN, '49, was named sales manager for DcCamp Realty Co., a large Midwestern real estate developing firm. , . . JOHN ROC.-VP, '30, local attorney, was re-elected to a 3-ycar term on the K. of C. Supreme Board of Directors at Its annual national convention In St. 
Louis. . . . Sorry to hear of the death of RAY FOX, father of DAVE FOX, '40, and uncle of BILL FOX, '20, and MIKE FOX, '55. . . . There arc two men who recently went across the "DI.xIe" to find a SMC-Indpls. bride; one is BILL SnrUHLDREHER, '53, to Sue Flynn. (BaPs tw o brother, BUD, '53, is now back %vith us after a short stint in Cleveland). The other man to receive Congrats is JIM GORMLEY, '57, who took Dot Konstanzer as his lovely bride. Jim is now working in Washington, D.C. with the Department of Labor. .. . We welcome FRANK McCARTHY, '55, formerly from Sharon, Pa., who is now lo­cated here as an engineer with the American Blower Co. . . . JOHN R. WELCH, '47, has moved his Celtic Savings Assn. to beautiful new quarters. . . . CHUCK GRACE, '57, has been transferred by Cummins Diesel to Chicago. . . , PAT O'BRIEN was in toH'n for a simmier stock show and spent some time with several N.D. men rehashing KNUTE ROCKNE's great stories. . . . DR. TOM CARNEY, '37, from EH Lilly & Co. (an N.D. Club director) gave a major address at St. Meinrad's this past summer before 100 priests and Sisters. .. . Last but not least, we might mention that almost all of the classes between '24 and '54 were well represented by local alumni at their respective reunions. To mention a few of these, we will start with the 5-year men: 1954 saw in attendance C WAGNER, T. MURPHY, R. McNA^URA, and J. D'ANTONI; 1949 w^ led by our local club president BOB ^VELCH, and R. HAYDEN, L. BARNHORST, T. WILLIAMS, and F. MALEY; the class of 1939 had such men as JIM ROCAP, T. BULGER, T. GILLESPIE, and 
F. LAUCK; BOB MOYNAHAN and AL SMITH led the parade for the class that finished up at 
N.D. 25 years ago in 1934; B. KRIEG, BOB NEWBOLD, and J.ACK ELDER, one of our dub directors, represented Indianapolis in the class of 1929; CURLY ASH, '24, made his 35th reunion, along with BOB RINK, formerly of this city. 
Until we correspond with you in 1960, Happy Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year, or any other season it may be, when this magazine arrives in your home. 
—BILL McGOWAN, JR., '57, Secy. 
Kalamazoo 
Tlic Club's sixth annual outing held July 14, 1959 u-as the most successful yet. FR.ANK KERSJES was the chairman of the event which was held in the afternoon and evening at Gull Lake Country Club. There 'was an attendance of 290, consisting of 15 guests from Notre Dame, local club members and friends from the area. 
Tlie Notre Dame contingent included FATHER 

INDIANAPOLIS — Planning e\-ents for 500 area alumni at a monthly <^ccrs and direc­tors meeting in the Indianapolis Athletic Club arc: (1st row, I. to r.) Leo A. Bamhorst^ '49, past president; William K. McGowan, Jr., *57, secretary; Robert V. Welch, '50, presi­dent; Richard K. Owens, '42, treasurer; (2nd row, L to r.) John I. Bradshaw, Jr., '54, executive secretary; Directors Dr. Thomas P. Carney, '37; John D. Harrington, '29; Henry 
K. Engel, '40, and Jack Elder, '30. Absent were Vice President Patrick J. Fit^crald, 52; Directors Lawrence E. Turner, '48, and John F. Ford, '37. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ December^ 1959 27 
BOSTON—At the annual Freshman Dinner, Sept. 9, New England Campus Club President Al Perim and Boston Club President Bill Dacey (standing, 5th and 6th from left, respectively arc surrounded by this year's bimipcr crop of incoming frosh from the Boston area. 
TOM BREXNAX, JOE KUH.\RICH and Iiis staff, BOB C-VHILL, and JAKE KLIXE. Buddy Blattncr from the baseball "Game of the AVcck" program was also a guest. 
In the afternoon there were golf and cards; cocktails preceded dinner in the evening. Messrs. Kuhancli and Blattncr cacli gave a short talk, and introduction of guests and awarding of prizes followed. 
Officers of the club arc: JOE O'KEEFE, presi­dent; FRAXK KERSJES, vice president; GIL GAUDIE, treasurer; and GERRY DESMOND. sccretar\'. 
Arrangements were made for groups to attend all home football games and the game at ^fichigan State in East Lansing. 
—GERRY DESMOND, Secy. 

Kansas City 
A delegation of Irish supporters, one hundred strong, were among the fifty-eight thousand at the Northwestern game. As an innovation for this game, our seventh consecutive trip, wc took a sleeper direct to South Bend and returned imme­diately after the game. While we missed the four-day trip of past years, most of the fans were in far better physical shape on Monday morning. RUSS FARRELL and ED AYLW'ARD were in ciiargc and did a fine Job of recovering lost bags, missing members and raising money for the Foundation. 
JACK HAYES and ILVROLD SOLO.MOX pro­duccd a banner picnic for the Club on the last day of August. Sixtv turned out for the evening in­cluding PAUL RUPP of Chillicothe. JOE VAX DYKE and BILL SHARP filled a table as did JOE GEISEL and JIM LILLIS. 
Tlic Club played host to twenty-five incoming freshmen and their Dads from the Kansas Citv area on Sept. 8. JOH.\ M/VSSMAX, Club presi­dent, acted as toastmastcr and provided some sage adWce for the young gentlemen. Tlie morie *'X'otre Dame'' was shou-n, followed by a question­and-answcr period. ED 0*MALLEY represented the campus club and explained the i-aluc of the students activities. JACK FRIT2LEX, TOM Mc-GEE, BERNARD CRAIG and JI.M DeCOURSEY handled the intros. 
Wc have continued the program started last year by ED AYL^VARD and CRAIG ANHITTAKER. The Club has lined up \-arious I*TA's, Holy X'amc Societies and High Schools for tlic showing of films and outlining requirements for admission to the University. Tliis function has been a boon to the prestige of local alumni and made additional friends for the University. Wc hope that it creates a desire in these nc^v friends of X^otrc Dame to support the financial goals of our foundation \vhile wc look for top grade future students. 
In tlie nest edition there'll be a full report of the holiday activities. —G. J. "JIM" HIGGINS, Secy. 
Kentucky 
On June 18, the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky gathered at the Richmond Boat Club in Louisville 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 
for its annual dinner meeting. On August I, Club members spent a day tn the fresh air at the annual Xotrc Dame-Xaricr summer outing. Although we lost the Softball game and possession of the Little Brown Jug for another year, whicli is sj'mbolic of supremacy on ihe diamond, old acquaintances were renewed and a banner time was had by all ^vho attended. Our thanks go to c»-chainnen JACK MUELLER, '52, and JIM HENNESSY, '51, who arranged the outing, and to BERNARD BOWLING, *43, who did such a fine Job of preparing tlic xictuals for us. 
Plans were laid at the August 27 meeting In tra­ditional "kick-ofF' style for our annually sponsored football trips to South Bend. Alumni, students and prospective students and their dads attended the meeting, which featured films of some of Notre Dame's opponents for the coming season. Coaclics from local high schools, namely Paul Miller of Flagel High School and Jeep Quire of Trinity High ScliDol, gave short talks and entertained questions from members as to their prospects for the coming football season. BILL BOSLER and BUD WILLIENBRINK, *47, our co-cliainnen_ for the football trips this year, reported on the prog­ress of the three trips the Club sponsored to the North Carolina, Northwestern and Na\y games. Our thanks go to Bill and Bud for their efforts to make these trips a success. 
Tlic Club held its September Communion Break­fast on September 13 at St. Mary Magdalen Church in Louisrillc. 
GENE KENNY, '51, former head basketball coacli at Bellarminc College in Louisrille, and more recently head coacli of St. Joe Prep in Bardstown, Kentucky, was fatally injured in an automobile accident during the past summer. Alumni gathered to recite the rosary for the repose of his soul. Tlie Club also participated with other groups in the area in organizing a Gene Kenny Fund, soliciting help for Gene's ^vife and familv. 
—JAMES C. KREBS, *56, Secy. 

La Crosse 
JOHN (PETE) RAU's cottage was again tlie scene of the club's annual Steak Fr\' held August 
29. TIic popular late summer event attracted some 50 persons (X.D. men and their wives). Good teamwork by JERRY HEBERLEIN, JIMMY KRONER, BER.ME I^WINS, BILL MURPHY, ROGER ZOELLNER, and TOM SAGG.AU made the event another huge success. 
Calendar-wise, our next function was a Holy Hour held at tlie beautiful Dominican Monastery in October. We have lost a solid member in Tom Saggau. Tom, his wife (Bari>ara Berry of St. ^far>-'s} and their fine family will reside in Scranlon, Pa., where Tom assumed a new post with the Tranc Company in the fall. 
—STEVE PAVELA, '48, Secy. 

Lehigh Valley 
Cliairman JACK MAGILL conducted the Third Annual Golf outing in August at the Twin Lakes Golf Club north of Allcntou*n. Participation was fine but cooperation from the weatherman sorely s£y 
tested the devotion of the golfers. 
Tlte monthly membership meeting was held at 
the Hotel Traylor in Allentown on September 14. 
Over 40 students, parents, alumni and newly ac­
cepted freshmen attended. Highlight of the meet­
ing under the chairmanship of TOM FOGARTY 
was the showing of tlie 1958 Football Highlights. 
Tliis meeting was one of the most successful mem­
bership meetings in the three-year histor\* of the 
club. 
October saw the club reconvene at the Hotel 
Traylor to watch the Micliigan State game in the 
hotel TV room. Following the game a cocktail 
party was held at the hotel for the members and 
their guests. 
Plans were completed and executed for the' annual Christmas party under Chairman BERT DAD.\Y. Next year's UXD Night «ill have LOU WYNNE as the cliairman. 
—TO.M MAGILL, '55, Scc>-. 

Los Angeles 
The big occasion of' the fall was the exodus to Northern California for N.D.-California game in Berkeley, Including a free flight, hotel, etc, for the uinner of LEO TURGEON's drawing Oct. I. 
Tlic Annual Christmas Dance of the Notre Dame Club of Los .-Vngcles was held Tuesday, Dec 29, in tlie Grand Ballroom of the Huntington Sheraton Hotel in Pasadena, with dancing to the miuic of Ray Xov-al's orchestra and plenty of holiday gaiety. © BEN SALVAT Y was chairman for the evening. 
Maine 
Tlic University of Notre Dame .Mumni .-Yssocia­tion of the State of Maine held their annual summer outing Saturday, September 12. at the Martha Washington Inn Boathouse in Winthrop, Maine. Wc had a rather excellent turnout of alumni, stu­dents and incoming freshmen, as well as parents and wives that made It a very happy gathering of Notre Dame men. 
We had an election of officers for a two-year term. Tlic new officers are: J. LEOXARD TOBIN, '38, president; JOHN H. L.\UGHLIN, '54, Wee president; lUYMOND A- GEIGER, '32, secretary; JOSEPH D. DOYLE, '42, treasurer; ROLAND DeCOTEAU, *37, area vice president, and ED­Wi\RD G. FARRELL, '39, area vice president. 
Among those present were the following alumni: ROLAND DeCOTEx\U, NORM TRE.MBLEY, JOE DOYLE, JOHN LAUGHLIN, ED FARRELL, LEN TOBIN and R^\Y GEIGER. 
Students presently at Notre Dame were: Dave Cormier, John Ridge, Dick Bilodeau, Bob La­fayette, Dick Beauregard, Bob Fratcs, Dave Lee, Larry Mitchell and Dan Sulli\'an. 
Among the freshmen about to enter the Uni­versity were Darid Hanson nad George Rice, who gr^'(^.drove a distance of 350 miles to be with us. %!y^ 
The Sdiolarship Fund of the Maine Association continues, and wc are making available to Dick Beauregard a second grant of $500 to aid him to continue his education in Electrical Engineering. 
Xecdless to say a barbecued chicken menu in the dclighttul pines of a Maine lake is a 'wonderful 

• setting for a Xotrc Dame gathering and it is hoped that next year the affair will be a full family gathering. 
May wc of the State of ^faine inntc any roving Xotrc Dame men on vacation to stop in and sec us. My own plant is on the Maine Turnpike at Exit 13 and ue would be pleased to have Wsilors at anv time. 
—RAY GEIGER> Scc^-. 
Miami 
The '59 version of the Annual Club Picnic came off on Saturday, August 29 at Crandon Fark Cabanas. The annual softball fracas was between team .-\ consisting of the officers and directors and 

• some of their heirs — and the B (better) team known OS Kennard^s KlobbererS — consisting of almost all the rest ot the available talent who pro­ceeded to exert their superiority on the scoreboard as well as in other departments, despite the at­tempts of the .Vs to inilcrizc the Ump BERNIE LYOXS whose strike-counting arm ^\'a5 in a cast before the game started. Although the A's tried most of their "seasoned" players at the mound, the B's proceeded at the end of four innings to lead 14-2. The only two A's to reacli the home plate were Micky Zorovich and C. J. Mahcr, whose pappys, along with the likes of Sk>*1ark Kelly, One-inning Piowaty, Doublc-pIay Smith, Dccp-slot Hanlcy, First-sack Keel, and Getaway-man Welch 
^ shared in the charlcy horses, strawberry bums, twisted joints, contusions, and the insincere but dccpfelt humility of getting the I» beat out of them. Tlierc wzts an ugly rumor that some of the A's were "practicing" a full week before tlie game started — and that one certain member of his family took lodging at a motel a few blocks from the cabanas for three da\-s preceding the game so as to be "in shape" — yet ju5t the satne, Kcnnard, Sircctcr, \Vilson, Halpin, Holland, Comins. Xaggcngast, ZilioH, Rcifly, Sadowski et al amassed an easy 14 points. 
AVc want to thank the Miller Champagne people for the wonderful suds — Ed and Mike for the Teamster arrangements and our chairman, JOHX 

^ THORXTOX. w The first of the fall meetings -tvas held at the Everglades Hotel on September 3 — among others in attendance u-as a newcomer, one JIM BERS­BACK, *46 — glad to have vou, Jim. President CHAS. M.\HER read a letter from JOE KU­H/VRICH pertaining to the athletic recruiting poli­cies of the University; also a letter from JIM ARMSTROX G regarding the current planning whiclt provides for FR. JOHX GWAXAUGH to be with our club in April of 1960 for UXD night. The October 1 meeting was held at the Hotel Everglades with dinner in the Simba Room, fol­lo^vcd by the Tcch-Irish Sweepstakes finale in the 
Fiesta room wherein some forty of the faithful and their wives partidpattd in the "count-down" ^ toward the lucky winner, who this year was MIKE 
" ZOROVICH. To those of you who participated in our annual Foundation Fund raising project, wc thank you. 
Prexy CH/\RLIE NLVHER read a news release of the University announcing that REV. JOHX J. C/\V/\XAUGH, C.S.C., was on leave of absence as Director of the Foimdaiion due to 111 healths \Vc join the very many in our prayers and best wishes for his speedy recovery. FATHER HES­BURGH has announced REV. JOHN H. \VILSON, C.S.C., as acting Director of the Foundation, and coordinator of the University's public relations and development activities. The University also an­nounced the appointment of REV. THOMAS J. O'DOXXELL, CS.C. to a newly created alumni liaison post. Father Tom will travel widely in this country and abroad to meet at regular inter\'als unth Xotrc Darnels 175 local alumni clubs. 
At our meeting was shown the Prudential film "Rocknc of X'otrc Dame," and it brought back happy memories to many of the old-timers who saw clips ol some of the famous Irish and their exploits of ycster>-car, and "heard" the old master giving the bo>-s his betwecn-the-halves pep talk. 
Among those in attendance were JOHN B. OVSHIOX, Jr., '59, and THOMAS O. HILS. '35, both newcomers to our Club, and we hope they will be regtdars from here on in. Nice to have you boys check in. 
The first of several Radio and TV Football Parties was held at ED KELLY's for the Purdue game. 'Twas a nice affair despite the final score. 
Mid-Hudson Valley 
At TOXY BUOXO's Exchange Hotel in Saugcr­tics, the Mid-Hudson Valley Club installed the fol­lowing officers on Universal XD night: REV. .AXTHON'Y J. BOTTI, Chaplain; DOXALD J. REYNOLDS, '53, president; CH.\RLES W. BECK, '29, Wcc president; MICHAEL L. BURKE, '53, secretary; and BRL\X C. O'NEILL, '56, treasurer. 
The annual club picnic ^*-as held August 23 on the grounds of E>'mard Seminary in Hyde Park. 0\'cr one hundred alumni, their families, and guests participated. Attending the function for the first time was DR. L. H. MOXACO, who recently joined the faculty of Dutchess County Community College. After the picnic lunches were consumed and everyone had enjoyed a dip in Eymard's large swimming pool, the annual East Bank versus West Bank (of the Hudson River) softball game was played. At the completion of seven innings of this titanic struggle, the scoreboard read . . . East Bank 5 — West Bank 2 . . . despite the strong moral support given the West by Mr. WILLIAM J. BL(\KE, the club's senior member. /Vlumni representing the East Bank were MIKE BURKE, JACK DRUMGOLD, BILL GIBSON, L/VRRY MOXACO, BRIAX O'XEILL, and DON REYNOLDS while TOXY BUOXO, H:\NK FISHER, JOE MAHrVR, DICK McCABE. BOB ORTALE, and JOE RORICK performed for the West Bankers. Highlights of the game were numer­ous with the most notable being: BOB ORTALE making a circus catch in ccnter6cld then throwing out the fleeting BILL GIBSON at the plate with a one bounce peg ala Rocky Colovito; JOE RORICK patrolling right field while comfort­ablv reposing in a camp chair sipping a cool Millers High Life; and the "JACK DRUMGOLD shift" that had sU West Bank leftfieldcrs whenever Jack was at bat. A double note of thanks is due to MIKE BURKE, JOE JLVHAR, and BOB ORTx\LE for their hard work that went into mak­ing the picnic a complete success. 
The Anchor Inn was the scene of the 1959 Foot­
ball Kickoff Dinner meeting on September 24, 
1959. The tables were decorated in blue and gold 
motif with yellow mum corsages provided for all 
the ladies of Notre Dame. Attending a club func­
tion for the first time were Kay and FRANK 
MAHAR. Frank, '34, was recently transferred 
from Troy, New York to Poughkecpsie by Mc­
Kesson and Robbtns. Film "Highlights of the 1958 
Xotrc Dame Football Season" were shown. 
December 6 the club held its annual Father-Son 
Communion Breakfast in observance of Universal 
Xotrc Dame Communion Sunday. Mass ivas cele­
brated in the Madonna Delia Strada chapel at St. 
Andrew-on-Hudson Seminary by REV. ANTHONY 
D. BOTTI, S.J., the dub chaplain. At the break­fast that followed at the Nelson House in Pough­kecpsie, Father Botti gave a very informative talk on the history and meaning of Madonna Delia Stnida. Publicity for this event ^vas handled by another new club member, GERRY HOWELL, *50, sports ^^•ritcr for the Poughkeepsic New Yorker. 
—DONALD J. REYNOLDS, Txts. 
Milwaukee 
As a result of the June meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Mihvaukee, a new slate of ofiicers is on hand to co-ordinate the activities for the coming year. Entrusted with the leadership of the group as president is JOHN J. "BUD" LINNE­HAN. A I94I engineering graduate. Bud ou-ns the Sea and Ski Shop here in ^filwaukce as well as the Linnehan Welding Supply Company. At home, he b the proud father of three daughters. JOHN 
D. WILKENSON, a sales engineer for the Uni­vei ^ Insulation Company, is serving in the ca­pacity of vice president. John is a 1951 graduate in the engineering school and his pride and joy is John D. HI. Handling the Club's correspondence for the year is THOMAS R. HERM.\N, an M.E. graduate in 1957. Tom is working for Allis-Cbal­mers in the nuclear pump department and has a little daughter. The newly-elected treasurer is CHARLES O'BRIEN. A baby boy is the latest news in the O'Brien household. A 1955 Engineering graduate. Chuck u employed by a division of Blackhawk ^fanufacturing Company located in Pewaukce. Last year's president, WALTER A. SCHNEIDER, will hold the post of President Emeritus. Walt is a B.S.-M.E. graduate of the class of '54 and is presently a product engineer at Chain Belt Company in Milwaukee. 
\Vhitnall Park ^vas the site picked for the Anniial Family Picnic held on Sunday, September 6. Old friends, a %varm sun, and a perfect location made the day a success, not to mention the fun the children had competing in the games and contests. 
On Thursday, September 10, a spirited group gathered at Port Washington Country Club to enjoy the Annual Stag Golf Outing. The weather was perfect for the golfers and the steak dinner pleased the connoisseurs. All agreed that BUD LINNEHAN had done a fine job on the affair. The Milwaukee Braves fans in attendance were happy to see JOHN McHALE, general manager of the team, arrive so as to get the inside dope on this year's pennant prospects. And MOON MULLINS was on hand to represent the Marquette Athletic Department. 
Plans were made for the Annual Communion Breakfast for the St. Charles Home for Bo>-s, held 

BUFFALO^Thesc were the participants In the Buffalo Club's 1959 Week-end Retreat. Another capacity crowd is expected (and cariy reservations urged) for a repeat, with a campus rctrcatmastcr, culminating on Passion Sunday, 1960. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December^ 1959 29 
early in December. This was a most cnjo>-abIc clay, as well as a wortliwhilc, affair. The Brothers and boys put on a nice breakfast after Mass and Com­munion with the family. 
—THOMAS HERMAN, Scc>-. 

Mohawk Valley 
Tlie annual fall business meeting of the Notre 

Dame Alumni Club of the Mohawk Valley was held 
in the middle of October at "Irish Mike" Mc­
Guirl's Restaurant in Ulica. 
FATHER MOR/VX, director of admbsions at 

the University was honored guest and opened the 
meeting with a prayer. 
The officers which were elected last year and 
will continue in office for the coming year include: 
President DAN WATERBURY, *44; Vice President 
VIN FLETCHER, '32; Secrctai>- KEN MURPH\% 
'54, and Treasurer ROGER LEMKE, '58. The 
following members will also continue In office for 
the coming year — in addition to the officers — 
as members of the executive committee: DR. 
DONALD GAVAG.-VN, '42, LOUIE CL.\RK, '34. 
ED SWEENEY, '30, R.\MSAY COLLIS, '34, and 
BILL LYNCH, '54. 
After the secretary- read the secretarial and 
financial reports for the past year, Dx\N CALLrVN, 
'49, was appointed clialrman of the annual Uni­
versal Notre Dame Communion Breakfast. 
FATHER MORAN explained the details of 
setting up an alumni counselling and screening 
committee of high school students which would 
work in close liaison with Ills office. DICK TROS­
SETT, '53, will head-up these committees, with 
other appointments still to be made. 
ED SWEENEY, '30, made a motion — whicli 
\%'as seconded -— that the club make a donation 
to the new central Catholic High School being 
erected. Tlic name of the new school — it was 
learned recently — will be "Notre Dame High 
School." 
Tlic club is mourning the recent passing of the 
m«ther of FR.-\NK DONALTY, '32. 
Mr. and Mrs. DAN \\'ATERBURY, '44, have be­
come the proud parents of a bouncing baby girl, 
giving them — as Dan refers to it — a *'full 
house" (3 boys and 2 girls). 
Robbie and DICK TROSSETT, '53, recently be­came the parents of a "bundle of Joy" — Gregory Arthur, by name. They were doubly blessed — with twin bo>-s — but the Good Lord took Jcffcry Alfred shortly after he was bom. We're sure that God had a better place for him. 
Tlie annual obscr\'ance of Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was held by tlic Club on Sunday, December 6, in Utica, N.Y. 
Mass and Communion at St. John's Churcli, Utica, was followed by a breakfast at the Hotel Hamilton, Utica, Reverend William Donovan, as­sistant pastor of St. John's who celebrated the mass, gave tlic invocation at the breakfast. 
D/\N CALLAN, '50, serx-ed as cliairman of the event and ^vas toastmaster at the breakfast. Sixty-two members and friends were present — the largest turnout at this particular event in the Iiistory of the club. 
Principal speaker •was Federal Judge Stephen 'W. Brennan. Utica, whose son, DR. ROBERT D. BRENNAN, '49, was entertainment clialrman. 
Judge Brennan stated that pupils contemplating college through government aid should sign the controversial "loyalty oath" stating that they do not belong to any subversive organizations and have no Intention of overthrowing the government. He lashed out at some college presidents who have created a furor over this particular law. 
Judge Brennan said he believes we have over­looked the basis on which human dignity stands, **tliat youngsters haven't been taught to obey the two great laws, the law of the land and the eternal law." 
*'Thc obedience of these laws must necessarily be preceded by an understanding of one's personal dignity and obligations," he said. *'If a youngster keeps in mind tliat he has a dignity and a destiny, and if he comes to the realization that he should have a pride In himself, his family, his school, his church, his community and his country, this pride will keep him straight and he will do all right." 
DAN ^VATERBURY, '44, club president, intro­duced otlier officers of the club — ROGER LEMKE, '58, treasurer, who gave a financial re­port; KEN MURPHY, '54, secretary, who gave a report on recent club happenings; and \1N FLETCHER, *32, ^^ce president. 
\Vaterbury also introduced DICK TROSSET, *53, clialrman of the prospective-student screening com­mittee, who gave a report on the progress of that 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 2959 
MOHA^VK VALLEY — Here's one of the tables at the Club's Dec. 6 obsen-ance of Universal Notre Danie Communion Sunday in Utica, N.Y. 
committee and designated the following area com­mittee members: DICK TROSSETT, '53, Utica; BOB GAFFNEY, '49, Whiteshoro; DAN WATER­BURY, '44, Wliitcsboro; JIM GRIFFIN, '34, Rome-Onelda; and DR. DONALD GAV.AG.AN, '42, Herkimer-Valley area. 
F. DONALD FULLEM, alumni cliairman of the annual Christmas Dance held in conjunction with the campus club, reported that this years affair will be on Sunday, December 27, at Twin Ponds Golf and Countr\- Club, New York Milk. An autographed football of the 1959 team will be given to some luckv ticket holder at the dance. 
DR. FRANCIS MARINO, topped off the affair by showing films of the 1957 Notre Dame Football Season, which included a 23-21 win over Army in a rcnev\-al of their traditional series after a 10-ycar lapse, and a 7-0 win over Oklahoma^ which hadn't lost in 47 straight games and hadn't been shut out in 126 straight games. 
Other alumni in attendance Included FRANK H^\CKETT, '11, oldest active member of the club; TOM BURL.\S, '57; ED REAGAN, '42; .MIKE McGUIRL, JR., and ANTHONY MARINO, '48; BOB FLETCHER, '5G; PAUL CLARK, '32; JLM CURTIS, '41; ED SWEENEY, '30, executive com­mittee; GEORGE RICHTER, '31; DR. DANIEL SH.AUGHNESSY, '30; TONY GIRU2ZI; DR. A. 
W. PERESKE, '30; HAR\^Y NEWQUIST, '54; ED DENN, '56; CHARLIE HITZELBERGER, '32; and RAY BELDEN, '49. 
Several "thruu'ay alumni" — modern version of the subway alumni — helped to swell the at­tendance. 
BILL SHANNON, '56, Utica, a first looie in the Marine Corps, is due to be discliargcd shortly. 
F. DONALD FULLEM, has been named a co-chairman of the suppliers' division for the 1960 Greater Utica United Fund campaign. Fullem is terminal manager for Associated Transport, Inc. 
FRANK OTT, *22, long an active member of the club, has moved to California. —KEN MURPHY, Secy. 
New Haven 
TOM J. HILS has resigned as sccretar\- of the New Haven Notre Dame Club. Tom has taken a new position In Hialeah, Florida. 
CHARLES J. DUCEY, '28, 56 \Voodbine Avenue, Ilamden, Conn., was appointed to be our new secretarj* \Vc consider it a privilege to have him on the officers' team. We should benefit from his Knights of Columbus experience. 
—JOSEPH R. BENOIT, Pros. 

New Jersey 
More than 75 new freshmen, some accompanied by their fathers, were the guests of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of New Jersey September 8 at the Club's annual Freshman Welcome party at the Robert Treat Hotel, Newark. 
Highlight of the soiree was a 15-minute "talkie" film depicting student life at Notre Dame at the turn of the mld-ccntur>-, starring club president BILL KIRCHNER, '51, who also supplied the movie, operated the projector and dubbed In lines bct%\-ecn breaks in the narration. Nevertheless, tlie show proved to be quite a success. 
The frosh also w*ere subjected to a few nostalgic tales of yore spun by former Irish football greats ^VNGELO BERTELLI, '42, and captain JOHN KELLY, '40, last year's club prcxy and now a member of the Board of Directors, Bertelli scared some of the new students into submission with j 
• horror stories about the scliool's regulations, while Kelly related how it was when he was a freshman . . . and a sophomore . . . and a junior . . . and a senior, which was more than two decades ago. 
The key part of the program, however, was handled by x\NGELO AM.\TO, '42, who did a masterful job in introducing the future members of the class of 1963 to the rest of the group. Work­ing with Amato, was cliairman PETE LUSARDI, who Introduced the four club officers, and guest speaker REV. JEREMIAH KENNEDY, C.P., associate editor of the SIGN Magazine, and a for­mer instructor and prefect while studving at Notre Dame, Lusardi also called on VINCE CO.MMISA, Essex County Democratic Frcelioldcr candidate and i a former teammate of Bcrtelll. 
.•\notlicr feature of the affair was a question-and­answcr session during which students and fathers alike fired au-ay at senior DON WxVLSH, current Ncu- Jersey Club president on campus. Walsh held up admirably tmder the barrage, as did the con­tingent of old grads who tried to slip him some of the answers under the table. 
Tlie usual alumni stalwarts were on hand for the occasion including former president BOB JOYCE, who never misses a meeting or the refreshments that follow; JIM FITZSIMMONS, L.ARRY DOYLE and several neivcomers for a change including JLM WALDRON, BRL\N MORRISSEY, BRIAN FOLEY and JOHN CONATON, all from '58 or '59. Also saw JOHN REILLY, who has another { year left at N.D.'s Law Scliool. 
A family-style Communion Breakfast in December was highlighted by the presence of MSGR. JOHN 
J. DOUGHERT\', world renowned Biblical scholar, professor of Sacred Scriptures at Immacu­late Conception Seminary* in Darlington, and newly appointed president of Seton Hall University. This event was one of the biggest of the year. 
Each first Friday of the month, Ncwarkers or alumni transients still rally 'round Kelly's Seafood Restaurant ofT Park Place for monthly chit-chat. Some faces you always see, others you never see. 
While on a recent business trip to Ohio, club president Kirclmer swapped Alumni Club news with 
L. C. "BUD" MURPHY, '33 in Columbus. Bud % is president of (Ralph) Gugliclmi Food Products Co., and also L. C. Slurphy Co., distributors of business machines, offset printing equipment and lltlmgraphlc supplies. 
fVNGELO AMATO, ^vho \v-as recently promoted to position of super\'isor of general accounting for Ford Motor Company at Jersey City, was chair­man of the Communion Breakfast. 
—JACK S.AND, '54, Secy. 

New Mexico 
At a recent meeting of the Notre Dame Club of New Mexico, HAROLD MULCAHY, '23, and ROBERT LONCHARICH, '57, were elected \ice president and secretary to replace GEORGE GLASSER, who has moved to California, and L.\RRY O'CONNELL, who has entered the ser\'­ice. Tlie Club sponsored a drawing for a trip for t^vo to the Notre Dame-California game. Tlie pro­
cccds of this affair will be used as a basis for our ^scholarship fund. 9 Here arc some quotes from L/\RRY O'COX-
NELL's last newsletter: 
"GEORGE and PAT GI^VSER are to be con­gratulated on the birth of their child. This time it was a girl. 
"You've probably heard stories about people buy­ing two foreign cars (one for each foot). Well, for a couple of weeks FRANK COREY '54 and his bachelor landlord each had two American cars. Even wlien they were both out nding around it looked like they had company. 
"BOB LONCH.\RICH and DON RIGALI, (both ^5Ts) planned to attend the Georgia Tech giune at Notre Dame on November 7 and the Pitt game in Pittsburgh on November 14. . . . Bob, who is 
 sports supporter from way back, is promoting a

»
3 
Noire Dame Club bowling team. "*IGGY' MULaVHY, '23, has opened a new boating store. Good luck to vou Igg>'!" —ROBERT LONCHARICH, Sec>-. 
New Orleans 
In an earlier issue it was mistakenly reported that all New Orleans officers succeeded themselves at the last U.N.D. Night. But a September letter from JOHN PETITBON indicated that "Jumpin' John" is presently secretary- and scribe. 
New York 

A On June 30 the Club enjoyed one of its most successful golf outings at the Leewood Golf Club in Eastchester. Co-chairmen HOWIE FAHEY and FLO McaVRTHY did an excellent job. Tliosc present enjoyed a delicious corned beef and cab­bage dinner. The president of Leewood Golf Club is JACK HOYT, former president of our Club. 
The Club donated a trophy in memory of J.ACK LfVVELLE at the annual CYO golf outing held at the Westchester Country- Club. The presentation was made by JACK HO^T. 

Unfortunately, the well-planned beach party at Gilgo Beach, scheduled for July 15, had to be cancelled because of inclement weather. 
On September 10 the officers and members of the Board of Directors held a Smoker at the New ^kVork Athletic Club for incoming freshmen from the metropolitan area and their fathers. JOE DERRICO and JACK ROBINSON chairmanncd the affair which was attended by over two hundred. The group \*as addressed by JOE TR.\CEY, vice president of the College Conference, President JIM MacDEVITT and FATHER RICHARD GOR.M.-VN. 
Father Gorman is our new Club Chaplain re­placing Father Lee who was forced to resign be­cause of the pressure of other responsibilities. 
Congratulations are in order for FRv\NK S. Mc-CULLOUGH of Rye who was recently ele\-aled to County Judge of Westchester County. 
Congratulations and thanks are also extended to MIKE MALLJVRDI, assistant secretary for the New York Club, who will be married by the time this 
A is in print and will have assumed the responsibilities of his new job with ABC in Hollywood. This vear's Constitution Committee of ED NE.\HER, JACK MURPHY, FILVNK PARISE and JACK DILLON have done a terrific job in re­vising the Club's constitution. It is expected tliat 
the new constitution will be approved at an early 
meeting of the general membership. 
The Fall Kick-OfT Meeting was held on October 
26 at the New York Athletic Club. Co-Chairmcn 
of thU affair xvere FRi\NK PARISE and FRED 
C\RIDEO. The speakers were Jack FarrcU of 
the N. Y. Yankees and football coach Earl 
''Greasy" Neale, 
The Ladies Auxiliary*, which is led by Julie 
^^aguirc, held its annual card party on November 
14 at the Park Lane Hotel. 
Sympathy and prayers are extended to our 
Treasurer JIM SPELLM.VN, on the recent loss of 
his wife. 
Approximately two hundred club members and 
wives attended Mass and Communion at 11:45 a.m. 
at St. Patrick's Cathedral on December 6. A 
brunch followed at the Park Lane Hotel. The 
program, co-chairman ned bv GORDON FOR­
ESTER and TONY DiBARI, was excellent. Speakers 
were HARVEY FOSTER, special agent in charge. 
New York FBI, and former president of the Na­
tional Alumni .:\ssociation; FR. EDMUND JOYCE, 
executive vice president of the University; and 
DR. THO.NLVS DOOLEY of Medico, an lUumnus 
who has gained world wide fame for his work in 
Laos and his writings. Dr. Dooley, *'Thc Splendid 
American," gave an inspiring talk. Honored guest 
was DR. GEORGE SHUSTER, '15, prominent 
educator, author and civil 5er\'ant who retired 
this vear as president of Hunter College. 
—WILLIAM V. CUDDY, Secy. 
Northern California 
The Notre Dame Club of Northern California and its three operating chapters had a resurgence culminating in a tremendous activity for the N.D.­California game October 10 in Berkeley. Extra tickets were made a\*ailable for local alumni, who ser\*cd as hosts for visiting groups from the campus, Portland, El Paso, Phoenix, Los Angeles, etc., in an Alumni Hospitality Center at the Sheraton-Palace Hotel. 
FATHER JOYCE, the coaching staff and a stellar entertainment program were assembled for the pre­game party at the Shcraton-Palace on Oct. 9. Chairman for the week end was PAUL GUSHING, aided bv a general committee consisting of KEVIN O'SHE^V, JOHN O'CONNOR, WILLIAM SHINE, EDWARD NLVNSFIELD, ROBERT CON­NELLY, TOM KERN.AN, A. W. McMULLEN, P.VUL TARVER, PAUL GUSHING, JR., and J.\CK MILLER. 

The three area units operating within the frame­work of the Northern California Club to facilitate local events like family picnics. Communion break­fasts, etc., are the East Bay Chapter (Oakland and environs), the Lower Peninsula (up to Red­wood City) and San Francisco-Upper Peninsula (Redwood City and North). 
On the Northern California executive board with the officers are regional \icc presidents in charge of the chapters and directors drawn proportionately from the areas. Succeeding 1958-59 officers £D M.\NSFIELD, GEORGE SE/VLY, FRED ARM­STRONG and KEVIN HARRIG/\N ore: WILLIAM! SHINE, president; JACK MILLER, vice president; JOSEPH CONCxVNNON, treasurer, and JAMES GREEN, secrctar>-, plus Vice Presidents EDWARD MADIG.VN, JR. (East Bay); KE\TN O'SHEA (City-Upper Peninsula), and DR. VINCENT MURPHY (Lower Penuisula). Directors include PAUL GUSHING, JR., GERALD JONES, THO­MAS KERNAN, EDWARD MANSFIELD, ED­WARD MASSA, A. ^V. McMULLEN, GEORGE SEALY and ROBERT TARVER. 
Oregon 
Crash opening of the 1959-60 calendar of Club events was the testimonial dinner for newly-con­firmcd Federal District Court Judge JOHN F. KILKENNY, '25 Law, at the new Sheraton-Port­land Hotel on September 29. His Excellency, Most Rev. Edward D. Howard, Archbishop of Portland in Oregon, led the diners in grace. Oregon Dis­trict Court Judge FRANK J. LONERGAN, '04, was toastmoster and introduced Multnomah County Bar .-Vssociation president Philip J. Roth, a graduate of Portland University, local C.S.C. School. JOHN SACOMANO, '52 Law, ^^-as chairman of this out­standing event in which his fellow attorney's and ND alumni and friends joined in tribute to the character and legal record of our distinguished fellow-alumnus. Other honored guests were Judge Kilkenny's associate Judges, William G. East and Gus J. Solomon. 
Two weeks later more than 20 Oregon grads and friends saw the ND-Cal game at Berkeley. We of the northwest are very happy to have a game a little closer to home than the 1000 miles to Los Angeles for the So. Cal grays. Speed the day when the Irish return to "God's country!" We arc looking a long way ahead to Universal NJD. Nite when Joe Kuharich is scheduled to meet with our group here. 
Going back to baseball days, TO.M OVRROLL, recent Irish team captain, joined the Portland Beavers in midseason and helped the club out of a slump. 
Condolences go to DR. ILVLPH M. PRAG, '27, on the loss of his brother Arthur, a respected local attorney. And to C. D. "DAVE" HOLiL\N on the death of his father. Dave recently took over as publisher-editor of the Florence, Oregon, weekly newspaper. 
ED C\SEY, '40, devoted civic leader, has been named president of the Portland Rose Festival As­sociation, which each year sponsors one of America's great color spectacles, the Grand Floral -Parade. Ed is abo on the board of directors of University of Portland. 
ARNOLD B. "PETE" PETERSCHMIDT, '27, fiscal boss at U. of P. was solely responsible for a memorial to the late JAMES A. CULLIGAN, '21, for many years Treasurer of U. of P. By a personal letter to friends of Jim, Pete was able to proWde the scltool library- with a world globe. Congratu­lations, Pete, on this good example of fraternal charity. And also on your election to the Board of Directors of the National .-Association of .Ac­countants. 
Wedding bells rang out Sept. 26 for JERRY KERNS, '51, and Miss Patty R>-an, conductor of KGW-TV's "Romper Room" kindergarten pro­gram. Jerry is local distributor for a German exporter of ceramics. 
On October 3, J. ED HUGHES, '56, married Miss Sally J. Farlow of Tacoma, ^Vashlngton. Ed is breaking Into advertising with the Caples agency, after sales work with Thcrmo-Fax. 
^ NEW YORK — At a star-studded head tabic for brunch at the Park Lane Hotel. follo\v-uig Universal Notre Dame Communion at St. V Patrick's Cathedral, were (1. to r.) Dr. George Shuster, author and educator; Co^hainnan Gordon Forester; Harry Hagery, chainnan, 
N.Y. president's committee; Dr. Thomas Dooley, co-founder of MEDICO; Father Joyce; Jim MacDcvitt, Club president; Harvey Foster, 
agent-in-charge, N.Y. FBI; Rev. Richard Gorman, Club chaplain; George Sokolsky, author and columnist; Joseph Byrne (president's com­mittee), and Co-chairman Tony DiBari. ' 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 31 
MORRISON A. CONWAY, JR., '53, recently moved into a new home in the West Hills area of town, in time for the arri4"al of Morrie III. Morric, Sr., '14, is all set to enroll his grandson at N.D. 
It was nice to liavc a telephone \-isit with ^^NCE McNALLY, '25, business manager of the Phila­delphia Eagles, when he was here for his club's exhibition tilt with the Green Bay Packers. He asked cspcciallv for TOM McMAHON, '27, and NORB CWANAUGH, '26, local legal lights. 

EDAVARD J. MURPHY, '27. gave his daughter Virginia ("Mike") in marriage on Sept. 12. Brother Ted, '54, was an usher. 
Yours truly received his coveted Chartered Life Under^vriter designation at a meeting of the Portland Association of Life Undcr^vriters on October 9, as a climax to his first 10 years with New England Life. 
—TOM MAGEE, *32, Secj-. 

Paris, France 
MARTIN Nf. McL.\UGHLIN (^LA. '41, Ph.D., '48), stationed in Paris with the -American Em­bass>-'s political section, has been asked by Rome's ^^NCE McALOOX to aid in the reception of the Notre Dame European Pilgrimage departing from Cliicago, Detroit, etc., in the spring. He has marshalled the few N.D. alumni in France with a view to the eventual cstablishmem of a small Notre Dame cliaptcr in Paris along the lines of the Rome organization. -Ml N.D. men in Paris are asked to contact Marty at the .American Embassy, 
Pensacola 
The following were among those who attended an alumni club organization meeting at the Nax-al Air Station, Pensacola, Fla.: T. C. BARTHO­LOMEW, '58; R. A. DANGELMEIER, '59; R. J. KILEY, JR., '58; P. C. O'REILLY, '59; J. H. CRISMAN, '59; J. V. CALDWELL, '58; P. J. GUNNING, '53; J. L. HEAVEY, '59; J. M\ WARDELL, '59; A. R. DcMARCO, '54; J. V. PIKELL, '54, and W. J. SHERMAN, '58. 
The same group held a "TViewing Party" at the Officers' Club on the occasion of the nation­wide telecast of the N.D.-Michigan Stale game. 
Peoria 
The October general meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Peoria u-as held at the Pabst "33" Room of Pabst Brewing Co, in Peoria Heights. N.D. Man FRANK H. MURPHY was responsible for procurring the facilities for the occasion. Primary-business was the election of officers for the 1959-60 year. M. J. "MAURY" CICCIARELLI, 1955 BSME grad, was elected president of the group; Maur\- and his wife, Patricia Ann, have one son. Maurv is a partner in the Peoria Industrial Piping Co. Architect BILL BIBO (Class of '54) was named \'Tcc President; Bill and wife, Marianne have two children. Bill,' Jr. and Kristi. BILL 0'H.ARA, BSC '50 grad, father of three bo%-s and three girls. President of Illinois Soft Water Co., and member of the Advisory Board of Holy Family Parish, adds the Treasurer's duties of the Notre Dame Club of Peoria to his bus>- schedule; Bill and his wUc Coleen arc former South Bend resi­dents. Perennial Sccretar>- is JOHN MANION, *56, BSC alumnus; John had been Secretary of the Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee during the past two years: he is a District itanagcr for the Refincr\- Sales Division of Clark Oil and Re­fining Corp.; John and wife, Mar>* Ann, have a one year old son, Kevin. 
BILL WOMBACHER, Chairman of the Annual Communion Breakfast on December 6. was quite pleased with the turnout for the affair held at Vonachens Junction. 
Tlic members heard Rev. Cyril Schlarraan. Building Consultant of the Peoria Diocese, speak on "Urban Renewal: Its Impact on Christian Living." Father Schlarman's explanation of the South St. Francis Urban Renewal Project in Peoria left little room for imagination as to the Catholic Iav*man's responsibility toward such an undertaking. An excellent crowd of alumni and former students carried on a lively question and answer period with Father Sclilarman following liis talk after the breakfast at Vonaclicns Junction, ^fass was celebrated at St, Mary's Cathedral. 
St. Patrick's Day will find an expected large crowd of alumni and friends at the Peoria Country Club dancing to the music of the Billy Hill Or­clicstra. Chairman BILL O'HARA announced that there will be a FREE cocktail hom* at the be­ginning of the affair on March 17. 
.Arrangements arc being made for the Universal 
32 Notre Dame Alumbus, December, 1959 
PEORIA — At the Club's December Com­munion Breakfast (from left} Rev. Cyril Schlarnian^s address on the Christian aspect of urban renewal is listened to attentively by Pres. M. J. Cicciarelli and Vice Pres. Bill Bibo. 
Notre Dame Night Banquet to be held in April. .A leading speaker from the Notre Dame Athletic Department will be in Peoria for the occasion to be held at Vonachens Junction. Any alumn! or friends of Notre Dame desiring to join the Notre Dame Club of Peoria may do so by \%-riting the club at 2114 W, Garden Road, Hamilton Park, Peoria. Illinois or by calling John Manion at Peoria 8-GH5. 
—JOHN MANION, '5G, Sec>-. 

Philadelphia 
Congratulations and sincere thanks to CLIFF PRODEHL for his w*onderful summer clam bake. 
Treasurer BART JOHNSON has been polling the Philly Club membership and working on an up-to-date dircctorj- of Notre Dame men in the Philadelphia area. 
Before the September meeting the Club officers had dinner and cocktails at the Vesper Club with last year's graduating seniors, who were tiordially Welcomed to participate in the Club program. 
On Tuesday, Sept. 15, the Annual Back to Scliool party for students and incoming freshmen featured local sports and TV personalities. Special thanks to BUD DUDLEY for bringing his Liberty Bowl Committee, who were vcr>- entertaining speakers. 
Tlie October meeting was a vciy special one. 

SALINA — Another Kansas summer meant another family outing at the Schwartz Ranch. 
PAUL BUTLER, '27, chairman of the Democrauc National Committee, was the guest speaker, re-­viewing his life at Notre Dame, his present busyC round and, not least, his interest in N.D. football. 
The Club's first cliartered plane trip was to the Pitt-N,D. game in Pittsburgh, Nov, 14-15, A single fee included plane transportation, game ticket, reser\'ation at the Hotel Pittsburgher and bus transportation. BILL WHITESIDE was chair­man of the trip. The Nov. 18 meeting featured the drawing for the chance drive prize, a trip to the Southern Cal game. CHxVRLIE CONLEY and TY DEMI*SEY were among the laborers in this vineyard. A President's Dinner was also held on Nov. 17. 
On Sunday, Dec, 6, the Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia held a key event of the year — the annual Notre Dame Communion Sunday, Mass^ was celebrated at the Cathedral Chapel and was™ followed by breakfast in the Ballroom of the ^Var­wick • Hotel. The principal speaker was an out­standing authority on both religion and patriotism. Rev. John F. LaBoon, Jr., S.J., a World AVar II submarine commander who returned to the Sub­marine Scr\'tce as a chaplain after his ordination. BUD DUDLEY gave last minute Liberty- Bowl details, and athletic directors, coaches and out­standing players from the Catholic League \vere feted in the Club Trophy ceremony. 
THE HUDDLE: Welcome to QUENTIN STURM, a former Chtcagoan, who has pur­cliased Radio Station ^VTEL. . . Best of luck to JOHN FANNON in his new endeavor as a sales-_ man for a Pittsburgh steel concern. .. . A quick ^ recover)- to EDWARD BRODERICK after his operation in Graduate Hospital. . , , Sincerest sympathy is extended to the Ridley family on the death of JOHN RIDLEY, brother of Waller, and to the Kittridgc familv on the death of FRANCIS KITTRIDGE, 
Phoenix 
The officers of the Phoenix Club for the year 1959-1960 are: DR, DALE STANNARD, 1319 W. Missouri, president; ROBERT KENDALL, 31 W, Pasedena. vice president; EDMUND CLEARY, S161 N, 47th Way, secrctar>-, and EDWARD MURPHY, 1741 E. Tuckey Lane, treasurer. Trus­tees for the Scholarship Fund arc JOHN G. A O'MALLEY, JR.; E. J. HILKERT and JOSEPH ^ 
E. HORRIGAN. Our newly appointed chaplain is Monsignor Robert J. Donohoe, Pastor of St. Agnes Church, Phoenix. 
Among those attending the University of Cali­fornia game at Berkeley were Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH HORRIGAN, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN O'MALLEY, Mr, and Mrs. RALPH BRUNEAU, Mr. and Mrs. CARLTON GILBERT, Dr. and Mrs. DALE STANNARD, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN DO­Lr\N. Mr. JOHN McSHANE and Mr, and Mrs. EDMUND CLEARY. 
.At a recent meeting of the Women's Auxiliary, held at the home of Mis. GENE HOESCHLER, the following ofhcers were elected for the com­ing year — Mrs. THOMAS GILROY, president; m .Mrs. DALE STAN*NARD, Wee president; Ifrs. EDMUND CLEARY, secretary- and Mrs. EDWARD GANNON, treasurer. The annual swimming party sponsored by the Auxiliary was held at the St. Francis Pool on Saturday, June 20. A good time • was had by all who attended. 
—EDMUND P. CLE.ARY, Scc>-. 

Pittsburgh 
On August 14, 1959, the Annual Father and Son Baseball Game was held with a d .incr at the Webster Hall Hotel and clioice scats for the Pirate-Milwaukee Braves game. This successful jg, outing was under the chairmanship of JOHN Q VUONO and an excellent meal was followed by a Pirate victor>'. 
On September 10, 1959, at the Highland Country Club the Annual Golf Outing was a great success. Although many of the club members did not score too well on the course, "MOOSE" KRAUSE scored very well with his run down of the forecast for the 1959 season. Chairman "SMOKY" COYNE saw that most of the 100 plus guests received prizes and the annual raffle conducted this year by BILL MEYER and TOM NOURIE was a great success. 
Again this year a Notre Dame-Pitt Pre-Game Rally, opened to the public, was held in the Wdjster Hall Hotel on Friday evening, November 13, 1959. Last year this was a ver^' convenient ^ meeting place for all out of town Notre Dame f| rooters and we had a bigger affair this year with about 800 guests. 
The Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh obser\'ed the 22nd Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday on Dec. 6 at the Toner Institute in Brookltne, Pa., 
^^vith 10 o*clock Mass in the Toner Chapel, followed 
9o y breakfast and a tour of the home for bo>-5. Fr. ^farccllus Fuller, head of the Institute, was host and speaker. Chairman AL GROSS made a fine appeal for understanding of the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution as promoting freedom of, not from> religion, and for prayer toward fruitful sequels to the recent peace meeting of President Eisenhower and the Holy Father. 
The annual Scholarship Christmas Dance was held at the Penn-Sharaton Hotel on December 29, with a fine patron list corraled by GEORGE BRO\\'N and his committee. The Annual Retreat is scheduled for January 8-10 at St. Paul's Monastcr>'. 
—DONALD W. BEBENEK, Secy. 
Rochester 
The Rochester Club's golf outing and dinner was held Sept. 2 at Oak Hill Country Club, managed by Chairman J. WILLIAM (BILL) REEVES. 
Alumni, students, incoming freshmen and friends took part in the Annual Fall Dance Sept. 12 at Brooklca Country Club. VIC DcSIMOX and TOM MURR^VY were co-chairmen. 
The Scholarehip Fund %\-as the benefit of a Northwestern game all-expense tour drawing at a "Victor>-" Smorgasbord following the Michigan State game Oct. 17. JIM GLE^VSON and REG MORRISON kicked off the campaign on Sept. 15, 
fcofTering either an all-expense week end by air 
'i n South Bend or $200. Tlic Smorgasbord and dance, held at the K. of C. Club room, was catered by HUGH SMITH, with committee work done by officers JOHN BURKE, JOHN &\SEY and JIM DOYLE. 
The Auxiliarj- season started on September 26, and since Sept. 14 the Rochester Club has held monthly luncheon meetings on the first Monday of each month at a pri\*ate dining room in the Home Dairy. 
Rock River Valley 
On Tuesday, Sept. 8, the Rock River Valley 
.Club held its annual family picnic at Emerald Hill 
ICountr>' Club between DLxon and Sterling, III. Picnic lunches were supplemented by coffee and soft drinks, swimming in the club pool, with optional golf and bowling, indoor and outdoor facilities. President JOE GUCCIONE reported that thoroughbred ants and sandflies were imported from the Riviera. 
Rome 
Thanks to the Alumni office, a change-of-address slip notified us of the arrlN-al of a new member for the Rome Club: CHARLES J. ROBRECHT, Ch.E, '24, M.S. '26. John has arrived to work as liaison in Italy, Austria, Switzerland and Gcr-
I many for a Shareholder's Representative Office of the Standard Oil Company (New Jersey) of N.Y.C. He and Mrs. Robrecht have already "suffered" their Roman initiation by being "wined" at the home of our V. Prexy, CHRIS COCHR^VNE, '46, and "dined" at the Club's Roman Rendezvous. 
JOHN KRUEGER comes and goes. Now with Stars and Stripes in Germany, he galloped down to Rome with his newborn baby daughter to have her baptized in St. Peter's, no less: It was an all N.D..C.S.C. affair. FATHER BERNARD L. IL\N­SING, C.S.C, asst. superior general, was tlie offici­ating priest, MRS. CHRIS COCHRx\NE was god­mother and VINCE McALOON, 'Jt was god­father. (See picture taken fay BROTHER DONARD 
> STEFFES, C.S.C., of Notre Dame International School). 
And who do you think was present for moral support? SISTER MARY MADELEVA, C.S.C., president of St. Mary's College, along with her raliant companion, SISTER MARY ALOYSIUS, C.S.C, of St. Mark's of the Wasatch College in Utah. We look occasion to induct Sister Madelcva 
(M.A. from N.D.) into the Rome Club as an honorary member. This we did at the famous altar of Micliclangelo's Pieta in St. Peter's, iter' s stay in Rome furnishes excellent material for the first chapter in a suggested second autobiography, "My Second Seventy Years." She met N.D. and St. Mary's visitors to Rome at every turn and steered them to our Club rendez\'ous. They are 
' still "cliccking in," ha\'ing encountered this "Vali­ant Woman" points north of here. 
A Memorial Mass was celebrated in St. Peter's for CHUCK ROHR, '30, of Cleveland, and ex­pressions of sympathy were sent to his widow 

ROME — In a double celebration at St. Peter's {the John Kruegers, '49, brought their infant daughter from Germany for baptism, and Sister Afadclcva, C.S.C., received honorary membership in the N.D. Club of Rome) arc {I. to r.): Rev. Bernard L. Ransing/C.S.C., officiating; Mrs. Krucgcr's mother and friend; Mrs. Chris Cochrane and Chris, Jr.; John and Mary Krueger; Chris Cochrane, '46; Sisters Madeleva and Aloysius, and Vince McAloon, '34­
and family. BECK, O.F.M., Conv., ^f.A. '36; BROTHERS 
A Papal Blessing by John XXIII went flying to IVO REGAN and a\IU S WEBBER, C.S.C., with 
DR. THOMAS A. DOOLEV, '48, as soon as we pilgrimage of Gilmour .Academy Bovs, Gates Mills, 
read in Time magazine of his sudden hospitaliza­Ohio; FATHER JIM MARTIN. C.S.C., '44, cn­
tion, and we are asking all comers to pray for rouie to Pakistan, and FATHER PHIL THONI, 
his recovery. '57; EDMUND MURPHY, '58, N.Y: , and 
One of the Club's closest local interests is the GER.\LD HORTON, '54 of Brighton, Mass. (re­
progress of Notre Dame International Sctiool for ported by Mrs. John Dono'.'an of Cambridge, 
Boys, a grade and high school conducted by the .Mass.); JLM EUSTEIttL\NN, '56, pre med of 
Holy Cross Brothers. Tfiis year we were present Le%viston, Minn.; VINCE RAYMOND, '53 and 
to witness the Dedication of the new school pre­'55, Law, with wife and parents, of Detroit, with 
sided over by His Eminence AMLETO G. CARDI­Air Force in France; BROTHER CHARLES HILL, 
NAL CIGONLVNI, N.D. honorary alumnus and C.S.C., ca route from East Pakistan to U.S".; 
honorary member of the ND Club of Rome. Pres­BROTHER COLUMBA CURRAN, C.S.C., and 
ent for the event were Very Rev. CHRISTOPHER FATHER CORNELIUS HAGERTY, C.S.C.; 
J. 0*TOOLE, C.S.C., superior general of the BROTHER REX HE.MSEL, C.S.C., former asst. Congregation of Holv Cross, and BROTHER headmaster of N.D. School, Rome, en route from EPHRE.M O'DWTER, C.S.C., Provincial of the China to U.S.; new arrivals for dutv in Rome: Eastern Province of the Holy Cross Brothers. Tlie BROTHER BERNARD KLE.M, CJS.C, Holy 
N.D. Club presented an Italian national flag to Cross Gencralate; BROTHERS JOSEPH RUANE, the school and backed the boys in their first PAUL NESBITT, TOM .MULRYAN, PETER yearbook with a full page "ad." MULLET, C.S.C., and finally, JOHN KROHA, Wc arc ^'catching more and more fish" at our '59 joining the faculty of Notre Dame School here. 
**Roman Rendcz\'ous," Tlic Scoglio Di Frisio Res­taurant, (address: 256 Via Merulana, telephone 734619). The reason: we have printed atop the St. Louis menu card, "We are the 'Roman Rendezvous' for The annual family picnic of the St. Loub Club 
the Notre Dame University Alumni Club of Rome. was held on August 19 at the Holiday Valley Golf ND people please make selves known. Ask for Club in Kirkwood, Mo., featuring a barbecue, Club host." So here ihcy arc, the "fish" (The soft drinks, door prizes and such activities as Scoglio specializes in ''seafood"!): swimming, softball, badminton, horseshoes, a play­
FATHER L.\WRENCE SULLIV.\N, C.S.C., ground for the kids and dancing for the elders. superior of the Holv Cross Eastern ^lission Band; FfMStball specials included a train to the Navy EDWIN M. KINDERMAN, M.S. '38, Ph.D. '41, game and charier air trips to the Northwestern of Stanford Research Institute, Menlo Park, Cal.; and Iowa games in South Bend and Iowa City DICK MRAZ, '37, and Mrs. Mraz of Chicago, respectively. DON DOHENY was chairman of the now with U.S. Army in Augsburg, Germany; excursions, assisted bv JOHN HIGGINS, TOM CHxVRLES CRANE, JR., '42, V7 Nax-y program, .McGUIRE and DON RATCHFORD. now on faculty of U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Tlie Annual Family Communion Sunday. on 
who sends greetings to BILL PRENDEGAST, Dec. 13 tried a five o'clock evening Mass at the circa '36, of Bridgeport, Conn,; FATHER SIMO-Cathedral followed by a buffet dinner at Ray 
NITCH, C.S.C.; FR.VNK CON*TE, '56, of PJits-Quinlin's in Clayton, Mo. Celebrant and guest bursh, with U.S. Na\y in Spain; JOHN P. ED­speaker was Father Francis J. Mathews, director WARDS, '59, of St. Louis, together with GEORGE of the Radio-TV .Apostolate in St. Louis. BOB 
ROSS, '59, of Chicago, who mentioned his uncles CHICKEY, JACK KANE and DON RATCH­TO.M NrVSH and JOHN N.\SH, '27 and '29, of FORD did the honors. Chicago; FRANCIS W. FEENEY, '22, whose son 
Tlic Annual Notre Dame Christmas Dance took 
Pat is for '61 and his daughter Mary Ann, St. 
place on Dec. 29 in the Khorossan Room at the Mar>*'s '59, who will join staff at St. Mary's this Hotel Chase. H. L. D.AHM, JR., headed up the year and whose fiance is our JOHN DE WITT, committee. 
'59, who visited us last year. STEVE C. MILLER, 

A.B. *37, LL.B. *38, with wife and son from Rock Island, III. FATHER TO.M PEYTON, C.S.C.. Salina and FATHER TOM TOLER^VTO, OS.C, FATHER Since the traditional outing at the Schwartz JAMES A. KIR^VNE, '57 Grad. in Music of Brook­Ranch the Salina Club has been holding meetings lyn accompanied by Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Leahy approximately once a month. A November meeting of San Francbco; SISTER ^\NNA CATHERINE was held at the home of NORB SKELLY, and the L/VWLOR, summer '30, of Convent Station, N. J.; 
Club ran an all-pullman special train for the JOHN DONAHUE, '54 of Upper Derby, Pa.; 
N.D.-Iowa game in Iowa City. AL SCIflVARTZ Leona Recmcr, St. Mary's 1900 and ex asst. dean was chairman of the trip. JOHN CARLIN, JR., 
of freshman there; FATHER BENEDICT RU-and DREW HARTNETT made it to South Bend 

Notre. Dame Alumnus^ December, 1959 33 
for the Xavy contest. Drew's son is tlic latest in a chain of bo>-s who have had Salina repre­sented at N.D. since 1922. Tlic membership has swelled with the addition of TO.M a\RROLL. 
Schenectady 
A Send-Off Dinner was sponsored by the Kotrc Dame Alumni Club of Schenectady for all Capital District Notre Dame students and their parents. About 75 people were in attendance at the Edison Countr>- Club for the event, which was held on Sept. 10. 
Spokane 
The Notre Dame Club of Spokane held their 

Annual Summer Outing on Sunday afternoon, 
July 26. FR.\NK HERRON, '35, who was cliair­
man in cliarge of tlie affair, kindly afforded the 
Club the use of his vcr>- fine summer home on the 
shores of Liberty Lake, near Spokane, for the 
afternoon of pleasure. The weather was ideal and 
the Club raeoibcrs came from near and far with 
their wives and numerous children. Xcxt year 
there will be a prize for the member having the 
largest family in attendance. 
Tlic following members and their families en­

joved the cood time: MONK ALBO, *35; MARK 
MARQUELI.VG, '50; FRANK HERRON, *35; ED 
BETHKE, '28; JI.M L\^*CH, '40; DR. BOB 
MAKER, '35; BOB MERZ, '47; JOHN P. 
O'NEILL, '3 : JOE ROWAN, '50; DICK ST. 
JOHN, '56. and JOE WALSH, '14. all of Spo­
kane; BOB .McGLV.\N, '54, and DR. ED PESSE­
MIER, '44, both of Pullman. Washington. 
—JOE WALSH, '14, Sccx-.-Trcas. 

Tri-Cities 
The Notre Dame Club of the Tri-Citics had 

their annual family picnic on July 11. It was 
held at a location just outside Moline, Illinois. 
Approximately 200 people were in attendance. A 
complete program of Indian dancers, a magician, 
and local celebrities entertained during the outing. 
WILLIAM -McCABLE, '53. and JIM COR\'N, 
'54. were the co-chairmen of the event. 
September 4 the club hold its annual fish fr>' 

and stag at the Isaac Walton Club House near 
Mount Joy, Iowa. $200,00 worth of prizes were 
given away. EMMETT KEEN;\N «-as chairman of 
the affair. The fish fr>' is the only event during 
the club's social calendar whose purpose is to 
make money fnr the clubs various functions and 
this was again a successful affair. It was attended 
by more than 150 people. 
Tlic Club held a rally the night before the Notre Dame-Iowa panic at the Hotel Blackhawk in Daven­port, Iowa. It is held every year that Notre Dame comes to Iowa to play. Tlie program was made up of local and school celebrities, dancing and refreshments. .Ml out-of-town visitors were invited to the rallv. 
—JOHN BUSH, '52, Sccx-.-Trcas. 

Tulsa 
BERNARD J. (BARNEY) SULLIVAN, '39, sent 

in tlic following tribute to the Tulsa Club: '*I 
believe you will find the following action of the 
Notre Dame Club of Tulsa to be interesting and 
deserving of mention In the .-VLUMNUS, since it 
so well demonstrates the family spirit of Notre 
Dame men and their quickness to assist a fellow 
member. 
"Because of a congenital heart condition, our 

late son Danny, age 12. underwent open heart 
surgery last July 16. an operation his heart was 
not strong enough to siir\-ivc. . . . Tlic problem 
of raising the necessarv' amount of blood was 
solved by the members of the Notre Dame Club 
of Tulsa. 
"In answer to my request the members not only succeeded in raising the minimum requirement but also accumulated a handsome surplus in the event of cmcrgenc>' needs. The blood donations were made primarily by the members themselves, and, considering the relative size of our local club, the amount of blood accumulated was outstanding. Some members who were unable to be donors for various reasons went to unusual efforts to enlist the aid of relatives and friends. All this was accomplished without fanfare or publicity, in de­ference to Danny's state of mind. However, I am sure these men arc deserving of some public recognition, and what better medium than tlie ALUMNUS? Certainly Our Lady must be vcr>* proud of them. My wife and I continuously ask Danny to intercede for these wonderful friends. The local director of. the Red Cross Blood Bank asserted that he had had few experiences to com­
34 Notre Dame Alumnus, December^lBSQ 
SCHENECTADY — Club President Leon St. Pierre, '55, and "Send-Off" Dinner Chairman Jack Hurley, '37 (seated, center) arc surrounded by Capital district freshmen who were their guests: (clockwise from left foreground) Francis Mahar, Bill Conlon, John Matthews, Denis O'Donoghue, Paul Graziade, Mike Regan, Jerrj* Didonna, Ed Kearney, Joe Sinioni, Ralph Pastore and Charles IVfaffeo. 
pare with the generous action of these men, their families and friends. 
Washington, D. C. 
"It is my understanding from President JACK The Washington Club held it annual Xotrc Dame 
CONWAY that the advisability of establishing a Family Picnic on August 22 at the Dowling farm. 
blood bank by the local club is now under con­The inexpensive afternoon featured hot dogs, soft 
sideration. Anyone who has had to arrange for drinks, softball, etc., and prizes for the children. 
an unusual quantity of blood can appreciate the Undergraduates were invited. 
merit of such a bank. Other clubs may already GAY HA(\S undertook the luncheon for fresh­
have sucli banks while others might be interested men from the area and their parents on Sept. 12 
if they are reminded of the possibilities." at the Sheraton Carlton. Invitations were sent to all undcrgrads, frosh candidates and parents. New members Include PHILIP CONNORS, JOSEPH MARINO, STEUART PAULL, CHRISTOPHER WALSH and JOHN SHIELDS, JR., all June grads, and L.\WRENCE BLEUTERI, '58. all dulv welcomed by President JOE FITZ.MAURICE. 
THE PROMPTER'S BOX The Golf Party, under the chairmanship of ROBERT DeORSEY, was most successful. Hx\L RODDY was the winner of the annual trophy 
Membership **Checks" award. 
Arc your ofliccrs too busy arranging and 

Weekly luncheons continue at the Touchdown pramating events to compile a directory or 
Club on Tuesday under the leadership of JI^^ keep a gasd running check on the member­
MARTIN and the luncheon committee. ship? Usually it's in the proWncc of the 
The W^ashington Club was represented at the secretary', treasurer or combination, but 
dedication of the Shrine of the Immaculate Con­overburdened officers sometimes appoint a 
ception on Nov. 22. BILL MIDDENDORF se­membership chairman. The Saginaw Valley 
cured tickets for club members. Club solved the problem by prc\'ailing on The 22nd observ'ancc of Universal Notre Dame the CHty Foundation Chairman, Carl Communion Sunday was made with a Mass at Doozan, to be permanent membership chair­Holy Cross College and breakfisi immediately man in charge of lists, rosters, changes of following in the refcctorv'. Tliemc of the day was address, etc Theorx' is that he can check "The Clarification of the First Amendment of the the membership while checking checks, with Constitution." Judge CHARLES Fx\HY of the 
the c:ansolidation of records helping both U.S. Court of -Appeals was the speaker. Chairman 
Club and Foundation efforts. was Vice President CHARLES HELLMU"rH. 
Western Washington 
Inter-Alumni Fun 

President TED CUMMINGS suggested that the Inter-alumni activity need not alwa^*s be N.D.-California game at Berkeley was an excellent confined to jointly sponsored lectures, dis­time for all-out activity in the Seattle area. There­cussion clubs or other manifestations of upon a competition was staged for an all-expense continuing intellectuality. Often a small trip to the game, with AL TOTH as ticket chair­but active alumni group can pool resources man and with proceeds going to the .-Mumni 
with alumni of other schools in social pur­Scholarship Fund. 

suits with great success. >\ltness the Dear­Drawing for the prize was held at the annual born, ^lich.. Club's perennial participation Fall Smoker at the College Club Oct. 1. with in a local Tri-Univcrslly Dance, or the TED CUM.NHNGS and DON SULLIVAN as co-Alabama chapter's cocpcration with Purdue 

chairmen. 
alun:ni on a joint rivcrboat excursion. 
i>i 

The Club also sponsored a trip to the game i^ , 
under the chairmanship of GEORGE STARBUCK. ^ 
Class-Consciousness 

Class-consdousness can be a good thing Williamsport when its directed to alumni classes within 
EDWARD O'DEtV, '37. Park Avenue. Williams-alumni clubs. The Detroit Club has made port. Pa. has been elected to succeed FR:\NK appeals for specific classes at ten-year In­LUNDY as president of the Williamsport ;\rca tervals to be on hand for monthly luncheon Xotrc Danie Club. 
meetings. More and more frequently, com­Other officers elected to serve with ^^^. O'Dca mittees arc appointed for major events with are: Vice President WILLIAM GR,\H.\M and a \-icw to class representation, so that en­Sccretar>- and Treasurer JOSEPH ORSO, JR. 

thusiasm can be worked up among class­
mates and contemporaries for attendance 
—JOSEPH ORSO, JR., Scc>-.-Trcas. 

as a group. At the request of class of­ficers, club bulletins and newsletters often Wyoming promote attendance at class reunions. The resulting interest in N.D. affairs redounds 
Since President ROBERT MEYER moved to ^' . to the good of both clubs and classes. 
North Africa, Wyoming Club affairs are now in ttic hands of Secretarv and Acting President PATRICK H. MEENAN, MD, who can be reached at the Midwest BIdg., P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. 
An intellectual senrice of the University of Notre Dame for the constant eniichment of tiie minds .the snblime of Notre Dome's diverse family. -^ 
Introduction to a Symposium on 
•what America stands for 
Shaping Our Identity Into an Image for the World . -b y Stephen D. Kertesz 
T
HE WORK of the. Committee on International Relations is concenti'ated on problems of foreign policy. Our publications and symposia from 1949 to the present 
A have examined primarily major ideological and political forces which influence foreign political trends in the contem­porary -world. Since in our era domestic political considera­tions have a significant impact on foreign policy, in the course of our search we have been necessarily confronted with fun­damental problems of domestic societies. The right solution of these basic questions means victory or defeat for the democracies in their struggle with totalitarian states. 
In the broad field of international relations our current concern is the study of the dilemmas which confront all liberal, democratic governments in the process of making and executing foreign policy. In the course of this research 
» and study, we have seen with growing clarity and a sense 
• of urgency that a primary criterion of a successful foreign policy for the United States is the awareness at home and abroad of the meaning of basic American ideas and purposes in the contemporary world. 
This problem is of particular impoi-tance today when the democratic governments are confronted with truly formidable totalitarian states. While the Soviet world usually appears as a monolithic unity, betraying only occasional cracks in its red walls, the natural by-product of freedom is diveraity, diversity filled with real or apparent contradictions. Although in the long nm the democratic system of govern­ment is more flexible than the totalitarian state, the latter 
ikcan more easily concentrate efforts in certain specific di­rections. For example, the communist states have placed military power ahead of improving living standards. The 
Dr. Stephen D. Kertesz, professor of political science at Notre Dame and a former Hungarian diplomat, has been chairman, of the University's Committee on International Relations since 1955. He succeeded tlie late Dr. Waldemar Gurian, who had headed the Committee from its establishment in 194S. ^ The Committee Ims sponsored twenty books, numerous sym-Wposia and, most recently, a five-year research project on American foreign policy with the help of grants from the Rockefeller Foundation. Dr.' Kertesz, who joined the faculty in 1950, is the author of DIPLOMACY IN A WHiRLrooL; has edited THE FATE OF EAST CENTRAL EUROPE, DIPLOMACY IN A CHANGING WORLD and the -volume introduced above, the last two in collaboration tuith Dr. M. A. Fitzsimons, editor of the "RexiE^ OF POLITICS. Prior to his resignation from diplomatic service in the face of Communist seizure of the government and Hungary's isolation from the West, Dr. Kertesz served as secretary-general of the Hungarian peace delegation to the Palis Conference of 1946 and as minister to Italy in 1947. He also directed publication of postwar diplomatic 
•^ documents entitled HUNGARY AND THE CONFERENCE OF PARIS, 
• three volumes of which were published before the Red coup. He has pursued international'studies at several universities, including Bjidapest, Paris, The Hague, Yale, Oxford, and Geneva, and is a member of the International Free Academy of Science and Letters. 
\ 

successful use of this military power can be further enlianced by a surprise factor, since in dictatorships the really im-, portant policy decisions are seldom preceded by public dis­cussions or announcements. This difference in procedure between democracies and dictatorships may be of vital significance. Our allies and especially the non-committed world consider developments in the United States and the Soviet Union as a supreme competition which may decisively influence their fate. Soviet success in the field of inter­continental missiles and the earth satellites caused genuine consternation and bewilderment among our friends on both sides of the Iron Cui-tain. They felt that we had let them: down in a race which they cannot basically influence, but on which their future depends. 
The Communist Challenge 
FEAR OF COMMUNIST e.xpansion has not been without foundation. The declared objective of communism has always been global conquest, and since the second World War the Soviet Union has realized some of its most cherished territorial ambitions. The power situation in Europe and Asia has undergone fundamental transformations, and today communist regimes dominate over 900 million people; that is, more than one-third of the,world's population. Further­more, in four decades an efiicient system of general education has attacked with success illiteracy in the Soviet Union, and the U.S.S.R. has become one of the two strongest industrial' and military powers. This is an, impressive • performance. On the other hand, the method of communist expansion, the inhuman cruelty of the system, and the human costs involved in communist achievements are not so generally known. Thus, the achievements encourage the underprivileged to seek answers to their problems in the doctrines of commu­nism and not knowing the price of Soviet progress, there is nothing to discourage them from following Marxist-Leninist-Stalinist dogmas,as the truth that will set them free from oppression and poverty. For some unbalanced intellectuals communist doctrines may have the same attraction. 
Because of the communist threat, we have been inclined to see the contemporary crisis almost exclusively in the context of the struggle between the Soviet and non-Soviet, worlds. This perspective has neglected rampant ; global nationalism and some of the new social forces reshaping all of human society, thus indirectly strengthening the appeal of communism to anti-colonial movements in Asia and Af rica.­
While opposition to communism is necessary, opposition in itself is a negative attitude. The gpreat strength of communist ideology and propaganda consists in aflarmative answers for all problems.- These answers usually contain falsehoods, but they are answers, and the underprivileged peoples on all continents, that is, the great majority of the human race, are eager'for a positive answer to their prob­lems, 
. Soviet successes'in the field of militaj? technology and 
WHAT AMERICA STANDS FOR 

sciences have added new elements to the unfavorable picture of the homo Americanus in many countries. Americans are characterized and sometimes caricatured as a comfort-loving people whose greatest ambition in life is to have bigger and better cars, color-television sets, deepfreezers, and so on. Our friends are afraid that the American people, amidst the legitimate enjoyment of the liighest living standard on the globe, may refuse to make sacrifices which involve a temporary lowering of this standard. Such a state of mind was the overture to doom for several empires in the past 
.and similar attitudes significantly weakened the British and French power position in the 1930's. There is no reason to believe that this will be the case in America. The American system is resilient enough to answer in time the, Soviet chal­lenge, and American citizens are farsighted enough to make necessary sacrifices if they are called upon to do so. 
Although conmiunist ideology has lost its original impetus and strength, the world-wide communist movement remains a formidable enemy for two reasons. First, it is still sup­ported, directed, and used by one of tlie two superpowers. Second, even \vithout Russian power and political support it might yet thrive in the Free World as a parasite on the weaknesses of Western civilization and on the political short­comings of the democracies and of Western statesmanship. 
However, at the present stage of human affairs, the attack on the banknipt communist ideology is not an answer to the problems of the world. Events in Poland and Tibet and the Hungarian Revolution exploded many aspects of the commu­nist myth. Today the crucial question in man's struggle against misei-y, ignoi-ance, and oppression is no longer the attraction of communist docti-ine but the discovei-y of and attack on the social, political, and economic problems of the contemporary world. The human race has reached a cross­road. For all its apparent success, the Soviet system has failed in some fundamentals of human relationships but the~ unsolved problems remain for mankind. 
Although the American system is sometimes put forward as a general panacea, it is obvious that American political institutions cannot be transplanted to countries with entirely different political traditions and with greatly differing social-economic conditions. But the American experience, Amer­ican ideals, and practices can provide some useful examples for all freedom-seeking nations. 
The American System. 

IN THE LAST two centuries, no other human experience has been so revealing and attractive to liberty-seeking people as the American expei-iment, called, not without warrant, "the permanent revolution." From the first years of the Republic, many thousands of people of different nationality, faith, and backgroimd have been streaming to the American shores. The political system of this country has made possible the fusion of a heterogeneous multitude into the American nation—a republic which has become a symbol of a better future for men everywhere. 
In this era of dynamic changes in human society we may be justly proud of the living standard of the American people, and of the fact that in -America, seven per cent of ~ the world's population is producing about half of the~vital world production in goods and services. All these are g^ratifying circumstances, but it is incomparably more im­portant to cai-ry high the beacon of world leadership in ideas. The United States has been a champion of liberty by tradition and conviction. The Declaration of Independ­ence, the American Constitution, and many pages of Amer­ican history seem to establish a claim for American leader­ship not only in material fields but even in b^isic freedoms and general moral objectives. 
The message of the American Revolution was liberty: freedom of thought, expression, worship, and inquiry, and free communication with other peoples. The proclamation of liberty, however, was followed by the acceptance of a well-organized authority and order under the new Constitution. 
. Freedoms restricted by constitutional authority and the rule of law made possible a prodigious technical progress.and an ever rising living standard. Difficulties experienced in some __ of the new states established since the second Worid War ^ demohstrate that freedom alone is not enough but must be supplemented with the safeguards of a well-established constitutional authority. ^ _ . 
The freedoms and privileges of an orderly life guaranteed to Americans by a Bill of Rights are cherished aspirations for millions of oppressed human beings to whom a knock on the door may mean a concentration camp or worse. The combination of political freedom, high living standards, and social dynamism in the United States, may sei-ve as a practical demonstration to the common man all over the world that he may secure in a democratic constitutional system, the economic and social, advantages and cultural^ progress advertised by the communists, without giving up his liberty and human dignity. 
Materialism, Idealism, Realism 
ON THE OTHER HAND, forceful American opposition to communism has created the false impression abroad that contemporary Americanism is essentially a self-defensive attitude of a selfish and highly materialistic society. Nothing could be further from the tiTith. Few men despise well­being, physical comfort, and other material advantages of—, life, but the basic characteristic of American society is not ^ materialism. Americans feel deeply the situation of others, are not indifferent to human suffering anywhere on the globe and respond generously to the outcry of those in disti-ess. Not selfishness, but humanitarian action and the principle of helping one's fellow man, particularly the underdog, are chai-acteristic features of the American society. No people in the course of history has ever been so willing to help and. rehabilitate the economics of foreign nations, including former enemies," as liberally as the North American Republic. Since, however, not all poor nations can be helped equally, in matters of foreign aid considerations of national policy play a role in determining allocation. 0^ 
It is impossible, however, to measure the relative pro-"^ portions of materialism and idealism in a society—except in times of major crises. It is more important that the Amer­
j j 
WHAT AMERI 

The Chapters in the significant volume sponsored by the Con, versity of Notre Dame Press (229 pp. $4.7.9, 
I The Objectives of the Symposium 1 
Stephen D. Kertesz—^University of Notre Dame. Part I POLITICS 15 
II The Living Constitution .1.. 17 Jerome G. Kerwin—^University of Chicago. in Freedom, Equality and Segregation 35 Guy B. Johnson—University of North Carolina. IV Science and Public Policy . 5?' Don K. Price, Dean, Littauer School of Public 
_ Administration—Harvard University. Part II ECONOMICS AND LABOR > 69 
V Contemporary Problems of the American 
Economy : : 71 Karl De Schweinitz, Jr.—Northwestern University. 
VI Managing the Managers—The Distribution of 
Power in American Industrial Society _...c ! Clark Kerr, President—^University of California. 
Not by years but by disposition is wisdom acquired. (Plautus) 
WHAT AMERICA STANDS FOE 

ican nation has and has always had a positive message for 
9 the world. This message is not an ideology or coherent doctrine but a continuous striving for a better life, a process which has lasted since the establishment of this country. The new nations of the world find here an example of how to achieve national independence and economic growth with­out the loss of freedom and human dignity which has characterized totalitarian dictatorships. 
In. order to appraise the situation, we have to realize, iirst of all, what the mid-twentieth century is all about and what our role in it is. We must become accustomed to quick and sometimes whimsical changes. Break-throughs, short cuts, and concentrations in certain branches of militaxy 
^ technology may change from time to time the relative sti-ength of the competing political systems. Military strength is a momentous factor because competition between the Soviet and non-Soviet systems will remain peaceful as long as the Free World is stronger. Military superiority, however, only provides a respite to prepare answers to the fundamental challenges of our age. 
Since libei-ation of the captive nations by military means is not included in the program of the democratic countries, and since it is impossible to convince the communist leaders of the validity of our system, it is necessary to concentrate on problems which can be solved outside the Soviet orbit. 
^ Thus the principal American task remains to provide guid­ance and assistance for the new nations of Asia and Africa without abandoning the old countries of Europe or neglect­ing the sister republics in Latin America. Success in this effort will not fail to have its impact on developments in communist states. The unity and strength of the Free World thus augmented should work toward the liberation of captive nations and support whatever liberalizing tendencies exist in the Soviet Union and China. 
Misconceptions Abroad 

^ THIS IS A SUPREME objective. But for cooperation we need mutual understanding. Often enough not only Asia and Africa, but even the Europeans and Latin Americans have 'difficulties in understanding developments in the United 
L STANDS FOR 
'ee on International Relations, published recently by the Uni-t^se who would like to pursue it in depth. 
VII American Agriculture 99 Charles Hardin—^University of Chicago. 
Part III CULTURE AND RELIGION 113 
Vni The Meaning of Literature in America Today 115 John T. Frederick—University of Notre Dame. 
IX Higher Education in the United States 130 ^ George N. Schuster, President—^Hunter College 
X -The Meaning of Architecture . . 149 John E. Burchard, Dean of Humanities and Social Studies—Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
XI Film and Television in the United States 164 Thomas J. Stritch—University of Notre Dame. 
XII The Religious Aspect . 183 Aaron I. Abell—^University of Notre Dame. 
^xni American Civilization: The Universal and the 
W Unique .~-; — 213 
M. A. Fitzsimons—University of Notre-Dame. 
. States. In recent years many of the social and economic 'Changes occuring in America have been ftmdamental, and it is almost miraculous how successfully traditional Amer­ican concepts have been applied to the rapidly changing conditions of contemporary life. Profound transformations in American society, however, ai-e hardly noticeable in countries where political and social changes usually are carried out through more spectacular, if not violent means. The common roots of civilization and yet the differences in operation of political. institutions, which , seek, similar objectives through different methods, are added sources ^6f misunderstanding between the United States, Europe, and 
Latin America, r -­
Although diversity is the direct consequence of free, development, citizens of leading Western European countries-and Americans are often inclined to think of the cultural and political pattern of their own states as the model for other democracies, and often expect to find approaches-and con­ditions elsewhere which are similar to their own. Western Europeans are inclined to judge foreign countries according to their own standards, and Americans usually look at the outside world through American eyes. Thus, the inter­national application of national outlooks becomes a kind of blinkers which often causes much confusion. . 
Another source of misunderstanding is the temptation to compare American attitudes with policies of other leading powers, particularly with British policies in by-gone decades. It is often ovei-looked that Great Britain ruled thewaves and many shores in an infinitely less complicated world where the leading powers were guided by similar basic values and recognized common standards. In that past period of history totalitarian ideologies had not yet entered upon the _ scene of world affairs; atomic weapons for mass destruction did not exist and wars were fought for limited objectives. 
The United States was suddenly catapulted into a leading position as one of the two superpowers on the ruins of what was known as the Western state system. It is a truism that the United States was unprepared for world leadership. But it is equally true that, in view of the radically changed world conditions and the suddenly unbalanced power situa­tion, no nation was prepared. Some former world powers have perhaps had more experience and professional sMH in diplomacy, but their historical traditions and. the resulting rigidity of concepts are not always an asset in quickly changing situations. However it may be, American attitudes are scrutinized, criticized, or praised, but more often mis­understood than appreciated, in all comers of the globe. 
Foreigners often consider the Soviet Union as a pre­dictable evil and the United States as an unpredictable factor in world politics. For a superficial observer, this view is not without foundation. It is not always easy to grasp the American system, which is not dominated by an over-all ideology. The dynamism of the pluralistic American society operates in a pragmatic way. Although this approach docs not lend itself to easy definition, American purposes and the general framework of the Amexiam modus operandi, vnth all its virtues and shortcomings, can be and should be explained to foreign nations. It is well to keep in mind that despite many transformations on the American scene since the foundation of the Republic, today only the Vatican's and Great Britain's political systems are older than the American Constitution. Among the written constitutions, the American is the oldest. Although American values originate in Western European civilization, there is a distinct American way of life, there are specific American aspirations and ideals. 
"The Permanent Revolution" 
THIS MEANS that the United States has a relatively long continuous history, an old and generally respected political system, and well-established values on the basis of which it is possible to clarify,"^^ coordinate,, and possibly define basic spiritual, political, social, and economic objectives. The Com-
The price of wisdom is above rubles. (Book of Job) 
WHAT AMERICA STANDS FOR 

mittee on International Relations decided to participate in this important task with the organization of the symposium. 
What America Stands For. 
Foreigners and even many Americans are ignorant of the great explosion of growth and of the fundamental social changes which have taken place in the United States partic­ularly since the second World War. Although there are still large areas where improvements could and should be made, it is a fact that the vast majority of American wage-earners actually enjoy the material well-being that Marxist theory promises but communist governments do not deliver to the workers. A wide distribution of national income and of political power has made more workers the effective posses­sors of private property than in any other social system known to history. This appears clearly from the comparison of real wages earned by workers in the United States and in foreign countries. Thus the picture of the United States promoted in some foreign countries as an anachronistic survival of nineteenth-century capitalism, is entirely errone­ous. On the other hand, the high American living standard is well known on both sides of the Iron Curtain and under­standably enough, often becomes a source of envy. At the same time it generates a feeling of satisfaction if not superiority in many Americans. Sometimes the success of American ways inspires a missionary zeal and even attitudes reflecting a superiority complex which, in turn, causes adverse reactions in foreign countries. 
American Responsibilities 
THE OBJECTIVE OP THIS symposium is to give a sig­nificant response to the urgently felt need of presenting major American values and practices and the meaning of contem­porary America in political, social, and cultural fields, without at the same time omitting the shortcomings of the American system. It is our earnest hope that this critical appraisal of the United States will be a further step on the difficult road to the evolution of a truly cooperative society of states. This task involves an insight into, and a clarification of American traditions, ideas, and resources, and ultimately the projection of the image of the many sides of America, free from propagandistic slogans,, to the world. Since in this period of great change and opportunity most of the nations do not have a satisfactoi-y answer for their own problems, a clear presentation of American ideas, institutions, pur­poses, and practices would seem to be a brotherly service to the commonwealth of man. Although essays included in this volume have covered a wide variety of areas, certain points are common to all the contributors and we may note some of them. 
Our contributors recognize that in the contemporary world an unusual burden falls to the United States. The burden may be defined as follows: we must become clearer about America's impact on the world, and accept a con­siderable measure of responsibility for that impact. On the one hand, that is particulai'ly difficult for us to do, because since the establishment of the Republic Americans have been primarily preoccupied with domestic affairs. But a large part of American influence abroad comes directly from our domestic life, the American standard of living, which Amer­ican wealth and dynamism, advertisements, movies, gigantic cars—^all completely unofficial and sometimes untoward exports—have presented to fox-eign nations. On the other hand, it is clear that in spite of our domestic preoccupations, a powerful American tradition, extending from the Declara­tion of Independence to our own time, proclaims universal political affirmations. The American creed is a belief in the fundamental rights and liberties of all men, in the equality of all men, and in spite of glaring difficulties, in the universal validity of democracy, in the principle that people can rule themselves. Abraham Lincoln stated: "Our Declaration of Independence meant liberty not alone for the people of this country but hope for all the world for all future time. It means in due course the weight should be^ lifted from the shoulders of all men." 
This universal character of the American creed does not imply a determination to impose American standards and <g! values on other nations—whatever the attractions of the American way of life and the potentials inherent in the American system may be. Conditions of life, natural re­sources, historical and social background are very different in the various parts of the globe. American economic and industrial methods and the American form of social justice cannot be transplanted in their totality into other parts of the world.' We should reconcile ourselves to the fact that many undeveloped countries will always be poor for want of natural resources, due to climatic and other causes, and that even those with resources may progress haltingly. To be sure, these countries can and should be taught to benefit^ 
- from our technological experience. But they must be taught realistically; the less fortunate nations cannot be expected to follow the same path we have pursued; rather they must follow the path marked by their tradition, incorporating into this tradition new features which will substantially benefit their societies. 
Weak Points of the American System 
ALTHOUGH THE American nation in its unsought posi­tion of world leadership is deeply concerned with fostering 
. peace and stability, it is also a source of global restlessness C and confusion. On account of the uncertainties and impreci­sion of American political thought—a by-product of pragma­tism—our friends abroad often do not understand American attitudes and sometimes think that the United States is marking time in a pex-iod of great opportunity. An additional difficulty is that the American Constitution established an unusually complicated system of formulating foreign policy, mainly because of the important no-man's land between presidential and congressional powers and because of the many congressional powers without corresponding respon­sibilities. 
Proclaimed principles which are not followed up by^w purposeful political actions, and policies the likely results of which are not thought through, may become particularly harmful. ' Foreign policies initiated under the impact of domestic considerations may create lasting trouble and may even cause havoc in international relations. 
Here, the moi-al imperative of accepting responsibility for officially declared principles and for American policies, and the calculation of interest coincide to suggest that we must in some measure try to guide the efforts of Amei-ica's impact on the world. Sometimes moderation in words, and serenity in policies, are the better part of wisdom, if not an impera­tive necessity for a world power. -^ 
Faith and Self-Criticism 
ABOVE ALL, we must strengthen the universally attrac­tive characteristics of American life with spiritual depth. This is all-important, for the price we have had to pay for abundance and astonishing mobility and adaptability to changes is a curious rootlessness and restlessness. The con­sequence of this has been a tendency to become superficial and in some measure irresponsible in our social and foreign relations. -~. : 
In discussing American ideas, traditions, and resources, we should look at our own system with a critical attitude i and humility. We have to recognize the necessity of com-j promises with the rest of mankind and we should be filled i with understaiiding and charity when assessing the virtues 
!and' shortcomings of other nations. Although most of our contributors are inspired by an optimistic outlook and vigorously express their belief in American institutions and practices, this symposium is in part an excercise in self-criticism. Optimism for the final outcome of human issues, faith in the success of the American struggle for a better world, and a realistic self-criticism, are all necessary. for, ^ • the preservation of the intrinsic values of the American's political system and way of life. -^ 
Human history becomes more and more a race between education and catastrophe. (H. G. Wells) 
Mr. and -Mrs. JOHN BARANV, '57, a daughter, September 16. 
Mr. and Mis. JOSEPH N. BOSSE, '37, a daugh­ter, Anne Marie, July 9. Mr. and Mrs. THO.MAS J. GUILFOILE, '37, 
a son, Michael Thomas, March 5. 
CUsSES .'^ 
Engagements 
Mrs. Margaret Nelson (vvjdou- of the late John Nelson) and JEROME P. HENDEL, '47. Miss Jean Hurley and JAMES A. BERNH.VRT, 
Miss Mar>* Elizabeth A. Maslcrson and DR. JOHN JOSEPH D. CONNORS, '54. Miss Barbara Ann Hendricks and DR. JOHN STANLEY O'BRIEN, '53. ^fiss Suzanne Elizabeth Lipctska and NA\^' LT., (JG) J,\.MES JOSEPH CIERZNIAK, '57. Miss Joyce Marie Simmons and WILLIAM D. .McKEEVER, JR., '58. Miss Gail Whitney Frank and SECOND LIEUT. GER.ALD SHAAW WELLS, USA, '38. Miss Marie Louise Pcnotc and CHARLES WIL­LIAM QUEENAN, '59. 
Marriages 
.Miss Anne Lorraine Mack and ROBERT MAURICE DOUGHERTY', '40, Rockville Centre, 
L. I., N. Y., September 2, 1959. 
Miss Barbara Joan Graliam and .\LFRED J. O'BRIEN, JR., '48, Copiaguc, L. I., .N. Y., September 19, 1959. 
Miss Yvonne Shaver Browning and ROBERT TRiVSK THROCKMORTON, JR., '50, Nashville, Tenn., August 8, 1959. 
Miss Dorothv K. Robertson and HOWARD H. 

FENN, '51, Santa Ana, Calif., Jan. 31, 1939. ^ Miss .Marv-Ann Coleman and HARRY COLE.M.AN ^AGERTY , JR., '52, New York, .New York, Sep­
tember 19, 1939. 
Miss Caroline Costello and D^VNIEL FARRELL, JR., '53, Elmhurst, Queens, N. Y., Sept., 1959. Miss Carol Law and DR. CHARLES ^^LL.•^RD ALLEN, '54, Notre Dame. Ind., Aug. 1, 1939. 
Miss Margaret Nelson Carey and DR. EDWARD ERNEY MAKER, '54, Baltimore, Manland, Octo­ber 31, 1939. 
Miss Jacqueline Rence Ingram and DR. THO­MAS QUINLJVN MORRIS, '54, Yonkers, -N. Y., September 12, 1959. 
Miss Alicia Roberta Waitc and FR:\NCIS PETER BEIRIGER, JR., '53, Los Angeles, Calif., Sep­tember, 26, 1959. 

^ Miss Maureen Susan Riley and JAMES .\IcCORD ^^IGELOW, '55, Notre Dame, Ind., September 5, 1959. Miss Dorothy Ann Gillespie and DO.XN BER­NARD DUFFY, '55, Rvc, N. Y., August 15, 1959. 
-Miss Sarah Jane Pasch and LT. (JG.) FRED­ERICK CHARLES ECKART, JR., USN, '55, Pearl Harbor, August I, 1959. 
.Miss Helena M. Y'ousko and STEPHEN G. KLE­MENT, '33, Trenton, N. J., September 12, 1959. Miss Mary McFarland and J. PETER RITTEN, '55, Minneapolis, Minn., June 13, 1959. -Miss Virginia Viskocil and LT. ^VILLIAM A. STAHL, '35, Lockport, III., August 22, 1959. 

Miss Mar\' Katherinc Slianalian and PHILIP mUGUS T KIL\MER, '56, Batavia, 111., August •^9, 1939. 
Miss Judith Ann Douglass and JOHN PAUL SCHU.MACHER, '56, South Bend, Ind., October 17, 1939. 
Miss Marilyn Ann Volz and JAMES LA^VRENCE BOYD, '57, Notre Dame, Ind., October 10, 1939. 
Miss Dorothy Ellen Fcnclon. and LT. PAUL CH.VRLES FLVTTERY, U.S.M.C., '57, New York, ^cw York, August, 1959. 
Miss Bcmadine A. Grady and THOMAS R. MARIANI, '37, Chicago, 111., June 20, 1959. 
Miss Mary Jennette Bengert and ENSIGN UlL-LIAM JAMES G\RRY, JR., USN, '58, Nonvich, N. Y., August 22, 1939. 

Mbs Ellen Anne Gallagher and PETER J. CAN­A'ON , '58, Mason City, Iowa, July 18, 1959. 
Miss Margaret Ann Baldingcr and BERNARDO D'ALMEIDAS, '58, Notre Dame, Ind., October 10, 1959. 
Miss Nancv- Jane Grummell and ENS. W1LLL\M 
^ ^'Wwvw^^d^wVdV^v.^A^^^^^^^n:^ 
T. GEiVRY, '58, Notre Dame, Ind., October 17, 1959. Miss Josephine Bremmer and HUGH McQUEEN, '38, Notre Dame. Ind., August 1, 1959. 
Miss Alice Cecilia Hennion and ENS. KENNETH ALLE.\ ROBISON, '58, South Bend, Ind., Sep­tember 12, 1959. 
Miss Patricia Lee Hurley and MICHAEL PETER UNDERWOOD, '58, Toledo, Ohio, September 12, 1959. 
Miss Mary Adrienne Chaplcau and WALTER THOMAS WOLF, '58, South Bend, Ind., July 4, 1939. 
Miss Barbara Choquette and DONALD M. ALBERS, '59, Notre Dame, Ind., October 17, 1939. 
Miss Janet Elizabeth Bradley and ROBERT LEROY GEISE, '59, South Bend, Ind., September 5, 1939. 
Miss Marguerite L. Grescj-k and MICHAEL ED­^^•ARD KIEWEL, '59, Crookston, Minn., June 13, 1959. 
Miss Sharon Lee Walker and JOHN EDWARD LUKES, '59, Downers Grove, 111., September 26, 1939. 
Miss Mar>- Elizabeth Kennedy and XHCHAEL 
A. MOTTER, '39, Notre Dame, Ind., .August 8, 1939. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES J. SHERRY, JR., '36, a son, John Carroll, September 29. Dr. and Mrs. ROBERT NIGRO, '42, a daughter, September 7. Dr. and Mrs. LEO VICTOR TURGEON, '42, a son, Paul Joseph. October 24. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM B. MIDDE.VDORF, '43, a daughter, Anne Elizabeth. August 1. Mr. and Mrs. W1LLI.\.M H. GRAFE, JR., '44, a son, James M. Grafe, April 9. Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR L. ANDERSEN, JR., '45, a son. Michael xXrthur, August 23. Mr. and Mrs. A. V. LESMEZ, '43, a son, Arthur Gerard, July 26. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE H. ^^XISS, '47, a son, John Frederick II, .August 6. Xfr. and Mrs. JOE GEISEL, '49, a son, Sep­tember 10. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE H. STUHR, '49, a son, Gregory* Paul, September 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. VINCENT DcCR.\NE, '50, two daughters, Melinda Ann and Melissa Clare, Sep­tember 5, 1959. 
Mr. and Mrs. FR,\NK E. McBRIDE, JR., '30, a daughter, August 21. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. WALSH, '30, a son, Gregory Gerard. June 17. Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL BRENTCW, '31, a daughter, September 15. Captain and Mrs. VICT'OR DcFIORI, '51, a daughter, Julia Marie. October 11. .Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD A. HERRLE, '51, a son. Robert Louis, August 26. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN H. J,\NOWSKI, '51, a daughter, Margaret Rose. September 22. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH S. BOWXING, '52, a daughter, Carole Anne. September 18. \ir. and Mrs. DAVID JUENKER, '52, a son, September 5. Mr. and Xtrs. EDWARD D. DeBOER, '53, a daughter, Diane Elizabeth, September 2. ifr. and Mrs. ROBERT FINNEY, '53, a son, Michael Shawn, September 22. .Mr. and Mrs. G. J. HIGGINS, '53, a daughter, June 26. Mr. and Mrs. E. EUGENE MEUNIER, '53, a son. June 26. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH D'.VNTONI, '54, a son, Robert Francis, Julv 20. Mr. and Mrs. JLM DeCOURSEY, '54, a son, Julv 25. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL E. FORSMAN, JR., '54, a son, James Peter, June 23. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. McMAHON III, '55, a daughter, Kathleen Anne, July 27. -Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES A. SULLIVAN, JR., '33, a son. John Charles, October 22. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN iUSSMAN, '36, a daugh­ter, September 4. 

Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES L. O'NEILL, '37, a daughter, Margaret Anne, August 18. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES A. DANIELS, '58, a son. July 14. 
Sympathy 

REV. J.VMES L. RIEER, '31, on the death of his mother, September 5. HO.N. EDWARD F. VOORDE, '36,' on the death of his father. September 20, 
J. GREGORY RICE, '39, on the death of his father, August, 1959. JA.\IES F. SPELLM;\N, '41, on the death of his wife, September 7. REV. WLLLVM P., '41 and JOHN T. EVANS, '50, on the death of their mother, April 12. ARTHUR COUGHLIN, '48, on the death of his father, September. 1939. EDWARD J. COFFEY, JR., '52, on the death of his mother, July 9, 1938. JOSEPH L. HEAP, '33, on the death of his mother, August 3. 
DE;\N J. RICH-ARDS, '57, on the death of his father, September 28. 
Deaths 

JAMES J. COOXEY, '93, Toledo, Ohio, iSicd July 19, 1959, according to information received by the Alumni Office. Mr. Cooney was the oldest alumnus living in the Toledo area. 
GEORGE U. LANSDOA\*NE, '97, HoustoD, Texas, was killed in an automobile accident, July 
23. 'Sir. Lansdo\\-ne was president of the Lans­dou•ne-^foody Company, Inc., dealers in farm machinery. He was active in civic affairs, and a charter member of the Houston Rotary Club. Mr. Lansdowne is sur\-ived by his wife, who resides at The Mayfair, 1600 Holcombe, three sisters and a brother. 
^VALDO ^V. HE.ALY, '98, of Chicago, III., died August 5, 1959 following a heart attack. Mr. Healy served on Adm. Dewey's flagship, Oljtupia, during the Spanish wur. Until the time of his death,, he ^^'as with the city water division. Surviving arc his wiie, Julia, and six children. 
FRxVNCIS J. BARRY, '03, Tucson, Arizona, died October 15, 1959. Mr. Barry died in Santa Cruz, Calif, after being in failing health for several years. Mr. Barry was a prominent attorney in botb Arizona and California. He came to the United States from Ireland, enrolled in Notre Dame, and was past president of the Southern California Notre Dame Alumni Association. He is survived by his wife, a son, two daughters, two brothers, and a sister. 
WILLUM I. ZINK, '03, Canton, Ohio, died September 27, 1959 according to information re­ceived by the Alumni Office. Mr. Zink was presi­dent of the Zink Insurance Agency, In addition ta serving as service director during the administration of the late Mayor A. TumbuU. He was first lay pre­fect at Notre Dame, and a member of the Notre Dame ^Uumni Club. He is survived by five nephews, all of whom arc Notre Dame graduates. 
ttVRLEY E. KIRBY, '08, South Bend., Ind., died August 20, 1959. Afr. Kirby died at Hincs, Illinois after a seven-week illness. He was chief in­spector at the Kingsbury Ordnance Plant, Kings­bury, Ind. Mr. Kirby was a member of the Notre Dame Monogram Club, and the Notre Dame foot­ball and track teams in 1901 and '02. He is sur­vived by a brother and a sister. 
JOHN E. MOORE, '08, Orlando, Florida, died October 2, 1959. ifr. yioore moved to Vero Beach 12 years ago from Detroit. He was prominent in business both in Orlando and Detroit, where he founded the Kent Moore Co. Mr. Moore was formerly president of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit. He is siu^ived by his wife, 1824 28lh Ave., Vero Beach, Florida. 
THO.XLAS A. J. DOCK^VEILER, '12, Los Angeles, California, died October 1, 1959. Mr. Dockweiler was a prominent attorney, civic leader and Catholic layman. He was a member of the City Social Service Commission for 38 years, 30 years as its president. His leadership as a Catholic layman was recognized by Pope Pius XII in 195D when he was named Knight Commander of the Order of St. Gregory the Great. He was the first 
^president of the N.D. Club of Los Angeles ia 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ Decemher, 1959 3> 
1921. He is sumvcd by his u-ifc, a daughter, a son, four brothers and three sisters. 
PONCE F. McC/VLLlX, '14, Denver, Colorado, died September 29, 1959- He u-as a prominent Denver businessman, and widely known in highway construction circles throughnut Colorado and Wyoming. Mr. McCallin is survived by his \vlfc, Eleanor, a son, and two sisters. 
CHARLES VAUGHN, '14, Lafayette, Indiana, 
died October 18, 1959, according to information 
received by the .Mumni Office. He is survived by 
his wife. 
REV. JAMES H. McDONALD, CS.Cy 'l9, chaplain at Notre Dame High School, Sherman Oaks, Calif., and former Notre Dame professor, (Ked October 22 in Sherman Oaks. Fatltcr Mc­Donald was buried in Notre Dame Community Cemctar\'. 
WILLLAM R. BAKER, '20, South Bend, Indiana, died October 23. Mr. Baker died at Ilincs, Illinois after an illness of four months. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. 
DR. EDWARD P. WARD, '21, Flushing, New York, died January 6, according to information re­ceived in the Alumni Office. He is survived by his wife and six children. 
HON. EUSTACE CULLIN.AN, JR., '25, San Francisco, Calif., died August 13. He died sud­denly of a heart attack in his home. Mr. Cullinan 
•was a prominent attorney in San Francisco, being associated with Matt I. Sullivan, former Chief Justice of California, and Hiram W» Johnson, a former Senator. He served in the Navy during World War II. and after being honorably dis­charged, entered the firm of Cusliing, Cullinan, Duniway and Gorrill, Attornev-s. He v\-as ap­pointed Judge of the Municipal Court, and also elevated to Judge of the Superior Court by the, then. Governor of California, Earl AVarrcn. He is survived by his v*ifc, Helen. 
GEORGE J. McLINEY, '28, Kansas City, Mis­souri, died August 18. Mr. McLincy died in a New Vork hospital following an operation. He %vas vice president of the George K,. Baum Invcst-Tnent Company. He was widely known for his vvork in municipal finance, having arranged the financing of two large issues of bonds for the State of Missouri in 1937. He is survived by his 
•wife, two sons, two daughters and four sisters. 
JOHN F. BULFIN, '29, Chicago, Illinois, died August 23, according to Information received by the Alumni Office. He is survived by his sister, ^Irs. Aldan O'Hearn of Chicago, III. 
LESTER J. KURT, '30, Pratt, Kansas, died September 26. Mr. Kurt died of a heart attack ia his home. He was in the automobile business for 20 years in Wichita before moving to Pratt. He is survived by his wife, a son, a daughter, four sisters and his mother, Mrs. Charles R. Kurt of Pratt, Kansas. 
HAROLD STEINBACHER, '30, BatUe Creek, ^licli., died July 20. He is survived by his wife. 
FRED COLLINS, '31, of Chicago, Illinois, died September 24. according to Information received in the Alumni Office. Mr. Collins died suddenly of a heart attack. 
NORBERT J. COLLINS, '31, of Yonkers, New York, died June 11. Mr. Collins was a practicing attorney In New York. He received his B.A. at Notre Dame and two years later was awarded his 
XL.B. by Fordham University. He is survived by his mother, Mrs. J. F. Collins, two brothers and a sister. 
BART W. O'HARA, '32. Denver, Colorado, died October 8. Mr. O'Hara was a prominent Denver attorney and at one lime was assistant to "United States Attorney. He was a very active member of the Denver Notre Dame Club. He is survived by his v\ife, four sons and four daughters. 
M. AL-AN FEENEY, *34, Phoenix, Arizona, died September, 1959. He had been stricken with bulbar polio some time prior to his death, and died in a Phoenbc hospital. Mr. Fcencv- was president of the American Hereford Association and had won more -championships than any other Hereford establish­ment in the United States. His operation of the "Milky 'Way ranch near Phoenix brought the rancher 'national recognition. Mr. Feeney is survived by 
his wife, Editli, eight children, a sister and his "mother ^frs. M. J. Feeney, Austin, Texas, 
JUSTIN M. KELLY, '37, of Darien, Conn., -died July 1 in a plane crash over north central Ohio, near the city of Marion. Mr. Kelly was a passenger on the Continental Can Company air­liner, along vviih nine other persons. He was manager of products engineering of the company's 
•eastern metal division. He served on the Militar>' 
•36 Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 

T^vo 50th anniversaries are evoked by the strains of the "Notre Dame Victory March" at Georgia Tech game halftime ceremonies recalling its first performance in 1909, the year of a champion football team. Principals were (1. to r.): Harry Miller, '09 team member; Father Edmund Joyce, N.D. executive vice president, who officiated; John Shea, co-author of the immortal song with his brother, the late Rev. Michael Shea; and Bill Schmitt, '09 player, now president of the N.D. Monogram Club. The guests ivelcomed gift monogram blankets in the November cold. 
Security Board In Bi:rliii and Coblenz, Germany, from 1949 to 1951. He is survived by his wife, and two daughters. 
GERALD J. MASTR.ANGELO, '38, West Haven, Connecticut, died August 25, according to infor­mation received by the Alumni Office. Mr. Mas­trangclo was an active member of the Notre Dame Club of New Haven. 
JOHN J. RIDLEY, '42, of Norristown, Pennsyl­vania, died July 25, according to information re­ceived by the Alumni Office. He is survived by his wife, 2556 Parkview Drive, Norristown, Pennsvi­v*ania. 
WILLIAM JORDAN SHEA, '43, Widilta, Kansas, died September 2. Mr. Shea died at Veterans Hospital of injuries received in a motel explosion .\ugust 19 at Pleasanton, Kansas. Mr. Shea, a sales­man, had been a resident of Wichita for the past nine years. He v\-as a veteran of World War II, having served in the U. S. Marine Corps in tlie South Pacific He is survived by his wife, four sons, two daughters and two sisters. 
ALAN F. THOMEFZ, '44, Glenview, 111., died .August 4, 1956, according to information received by the Alumni Office. Mr. Thometz is survived by his wife. 
I. JOHN DU&\TO, '47, North East, Pcnns>I­vania, died October 4, 1959. He died ver>- sud­denly of a heart attack. Mr. Ducato was execu­tive vice president and treasurer oE the Tacconc Pneumatic Foundr>-, North East, Pa. He is sur­vived by his wife, Josephine, two sons and one daughter. 
ENGENE F. KEN^'Y, '51, Louisville, Kentuck>% died August 2. Mr. Kenny died of Injuries re­ceived in an automobile accident July 7, He was former basketball coach at Bellarminc College and Flaget High Scliool. He was presently coacliing at St. Joseph Preparatory School. He played basket­ball for four years at Notre Dame, and remained to coach freshman basketball the year after gradu­ation winning all 23 games. He Is survived by his wife, and three children. 
CAPT. RICHARD L. WARD, '51, Peoria, Illi­nois, died June G. He died when his jet plane crashed on take-ofT at Greater Peoria airport. Captain Ward v\-as a member of the 169th Fighter Interceptor Squadron. Five years ago lie v%"as awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for heroism in air combat during the Korean ^Var. Later, he was given an Oak Leaf Cluster to the DFC and won a Presidential Unit Citation. He is survived by his wife, two children, his mother, Mrs. Ann^ ' 

J. Ward, and a brother. 

HAROLD S. VANCE, '54. Harold Sines Vance a member of the Atomic Energy* Commission since 1955, died August 31 at Walter Reed Army Medical Center after an operation. Mr. Vance was former dialrman of the executive committee of the Stude­baker-Packard Corporation. He received an hon­orary- LL.D. from the University of Notre Dame in 1954. He is survived by his widow, two daughters and two sons. 
BROTHER SYLVANUS NICHOLS, C.S.C., died recently In the Community Infirmary on the cam­pus of Notre Dame. He had been a cook in Moreau Seminary and Dujaric Hall and numerous other Holy Cross institutions. Burial was in the Notrcgfti Dame Community Ccmelarv-. —' 
BROTHER FIR.\HN -\LVNDEVILLE, CS.C , died August 9 in the Alcxian Bros. Hospital in St. Louis, Mo. Prior to his illness he was gardner at the Community Infirmary at the University of Notre Dame. He Is survived by two sisters and a brother. 
50-Year Club 

WILLLVM A. WALSH, Class of 1897. still main­tains a law office with his son, Walsh Sc Walsh, at 30 South Broadway, Yonkers, N. Y. Recently^^ on August 18, Bill celebrated his 88th birthday and ^ was honored by an adjournment of tlie Special Sessions Court and eulogies from judges and mem­bers of the Bar. Formerly a city judge, he also served as mayor (1926-27) and city manager (1942­
44) and was responsible for much of the city's development. 
Arguments over who is Notre Dame's oldest liv­ing alumnus v%'ere silenced on September 16 when ARTHUR P. PERLEY celebrated his 92nd birth­day. A veteran of many years as president of the South Bend Regular Democratic Club, Arthur was active as a precinct committeeman until only a couple of years ago. He finds very few Notre Dame men of tlic 1880's to get in touch with these days. 
C. C. FITZGERALD, '94, was quoted recentli% by REV. GLENN BOARMAN, CS.C , in the Rell­ligious Bulletin. In "The History of a Rosary" he told how a rosary given to him by FATHER GRANGER v%'as his constant companion for 50 years, through the Spanish War in Cuba, ^Vorld 
^Va r I and on through life, wearing thin from 
AJaily use. FATHER GENE BURKE forwarded a postcard from FATHER CON HAGERTY ulth a note: "Father Hagcrty at last account was visiting in Germany. He wanted to sec the Matterhom and I fear he may attempt to climb it. He did Ireland pretty thoroughly and I dread what the Hibernians are in for at the next St. Patrick*s Day dinner. He's a little short on German or he would stay longer." The card showed a huge German church, and Father Con wrote: *'I said Mass in this cathedral this morning. Yesterday I went from Freiburg to Colmar (France) across the Rhine to see Gruncwald's famous picture of the Cruci­fixion.** 
^ From Son Antonio JOE MENGER sent a ncws­^»aper clipping about the funeral of Mrs. Joseph Cusack. She was the widow of COLONEL JOSEPH 
E. CUSACK, '89, who was a member oE Notre Dame's first football team. And from San Fran­cisco EUSTACE CULLINAN, *95, wrote about the death of his son, Eustace, Jr., '25. He enclosed copies of tributes from Chief Justice Warren, who first appointed his son a judge, and from his for­mer naval commanding officer. 
There is more news of much sadness. The fol­lowing 50-Year Clubbers have died in recent months: JANfES J. COONEY, '93, of Toledo, Ohio; GEORGE U. LANSDOWNE, '97, of Houston, Tex., manufacturer and Spanish War veteran; WALDO 
,,W. HEALY, '98, of Chicago; FRANK JOSEPH 
(ptARRY, '03, of Tuscon, Ariz., former Los Angeles attorney, K. of C. leader and N. D. Club presi­dent; WILLIAM L ZINK, '03, first lay prefect at 
N. D., (of six pallbearers, all nephews, four were N. 
D. men: RICHARD J. UNGASHICK. *49; AVIL­LIAM F. UNG/\SHICK. *45; MAURICE F. ZINK. '48, and ROBERT W. ZINK, *49. Another nephew is REV. HAROLD G. ZINK. *47, of St. Mary's Cathedral in Austin Tex.); JOHN E. MOORE, '08, former Detroit industrialist, Oct. 2 in Orlando, Fla., and HARLEY E. KIRBY, *08, of South Bend. 
LOUIS E. VENEZIANI, who was a Minim at St. Edward's Hall from 1896 to 1900, has been as­sociated with the Singer Manufacturing Company for more than 50 years and has long been a close 
„fricnd of HENRY E. BROA\'N, '02. Mr. Veneziani Reports that Mr. Brown has been seriously ill at his home, 311 Division Avenue, Hasbrouck Heights, 
N. J. 
While Mr. BrouTi was a student he ser\'cd as sccretar>- to FATHER ANDREW MORRISSEY, then president. After graduation he worked lor the Singer Sewing Machine Co. in South America, where he became general auditor. In 1928 he was placed in charge of the tax department of the Singer Mfg. Co. in New York and scr\'cd there until his retirement in 1953 after 44 years of ser\icc with Singer. 
An Ohioan, Mr. Brown has several Notre Dame-St. Mary's connections. He is a grandnephcw of Mr. and Mrs. Wm. T. Phelan of Lancaster, 
.Ohio, early benefactors of the University. Mrs. 
0hela n was the mother of FATHER NEAL GIL­LESPIE, a famous early graduate, and Mother Angela of St. Mary's, a renowned mother superior. Another ancestor was FATHER EWING, director of studies at Notre Dame in the Ciril War period, brother-in-law of General Sherman, whose two young sons attended during the time. 
Last but far from least, this issue celebrates the recognition of another of the "Golden Boys,** JOHN SHE^\, who, with his brother the late FATHER MICHAEL SHE.\, created "The Notre Dame Victory March" back in 1908 when John u-as still a grad student. At the Georgia Tech game, while the N.D. band recalled that era, 
^oh n shared the spotlight with a couple of young­^er s from the 1909 football team. 
50 YEAR REUNION Class of '10 JUNE lO-n-12 

1910 
From the Alumni Office: 
^ ^ Plans for the Golden Jubilee Reunion are con­
^Pnuing apace. About 30 classmates will never gather again except for the Last Reunion, but more than 40 remain whose youthful activity betokens a very happy get-logcthcr. 
On the campus the labors of liturgist FATHER 
HON. HUGH C. BOYLE, '24 Out of Court, a Dizzying Docket 

In a recent listing of men selected by the Pittsburgh Junior Chamber of Com­merce as outstanding representatives of their \'arious professions, the field of law was exemplified by Judge Hugh C. Boyle, holder of "one of the most sensitive jobs in law" as president judge of the Orphan's Court of Allegheny County. 
A native of Johnstown, Pa., Hugh Boyle came to Notre Dame from St Vincent Prep in Latrobe, Pa., and capped his .^.B. degree with an LL.B. from Duquesne. .Ad­mitted to the bar of the Pennsyh-ania Supreme Court and Allegheny Coimty in 1928, he engaged in general practice until 1943 when he was elected a judge of the Orphan's Court. He became president judge in 1949 and was re-elected in 1953. 
Judge Boyle has kept the court's dockets up-to-date and made it one of the most efficient and respected in the Central States. Professional affiliations include county, state and American Bar Assns., the American Judicature Society, the Notre Dame Law Assn. and Adwsory Council for the N.D. Law School. Community stature as a jurist and citizen has demanded a personal docket that is downright dizzying; membership in the Citizen's Sponsoring Committee of the Allegheny Conference on Community Development, Citizen's ."As­sembly of the Count>- Health and Welfare .Association and the Decedents' Estates Ad­visory Committee of the PennsyU'ania Joint State Government Commission; trus­teeship of Mount Mercy College, Du­quesne U. and the Western Pennsylvania School for the Blind; directorship of the Pittsburgh Roundtable of N.C.C.J., etc. 
In 1931 Hugh married Ann Mc-Donough of Pittsburgh. They have four sons (three of whom — Hugh, Michael and Arthur — are alumni of Notre Dame, a fourth, Timothy, of Mount St Mary's) and a daughter at St. Mary's, Mary Ann. 
MIKE M.VrHlS and dassicist FATHER PETER HEBERT have been somewhat curtailed in re­cent years, but the\-'vc kept their celebrated en­thusiasm intact. 
There is sadder news from ED^VIN J. LYNCH of athletic renown. Ed's wife Norinc reports bis regret that he will be unable to attend the re­union in June: "I thought you might like to knoMr that he has been seriously ill since 1935, and . . . bedfast since December of 1957. He has had two amputations brought on by diabetes and e:ctrcmely poor circulation." Ed's classmates and fellow mo­nogram men will want to pray for his recovery and return to some measure of activity. 
Two other monogram men from the undefeated gridders of 1909, HARRY MILLER and Monogram Club President BILL SCHMITT, aniidpated the reunion when they were honored at the Georgia Tech game on the fiftieth anniversary of their championship team. Harry and Bill received mono­gram blankets from .Athletic Director ED KRAUSE, along with JOHN SHEA, whose "Notre Dame Victory March" also had a birthdav. 
Fred L. Steers 

1911 
105 S. LaSaUc St. Chicago 3, Illinois 

From the Alumni Office: Anna O'Brien Ruell, widow of ULRIC J. {FOOT) RUELL, sends her thanks for the prayers of the alumni and the circumstances of her hus­band's death: "Foot had been sick sis years, and the cause of it was that our only boy w-as lulled going home to West Springfield and he never got over it." Foot Ruell was a star third baseman in the Canadian, Connecticut and West Coast Leagues before serving overseas with the Second Ca\'alry in 'World War I. A grandson also survives. 
B. J. •'Ben" Kaiser 

1912 
604 East Tenth St. Berwick, Pa. 

From the Alumni Office: Classmates will wish to pray for the repose of the soul of THOMAS A. J. DOCKWEILER, who died Oct. I. A Los Angeles cine leader, he was the first president of the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles and had been made a Knight of St. Gregory by the Holy Father. 
191 3 Paul R. Byrne '"' ^ 360 Warner Ave. Syracuse 5, N. Y. 
From the Alumni Office: 
For the information of the far-flung attorneys of *I3, FLOYD JELLISON still maintains his law office in South Bend's Odd Fellows Building. No reflection on Floyd, the building was erected by the LO.O.F. 
1914 ^^^ O'NeiU 
• ' • ^ 1350 N. Black Oak Dr. South Bend 17, Ind. 
From the Alumni Office: Until RON O'NEILL is strong enough to return to this stand, here are a few notes on 'I4ers who didn't make the reunion alontf with those who did. HON. CHARLES FAHY, still a U. S. Judge in ^Vashington, is on the board of governors of the select John Carroll Society, whose president and board chairman are also N.D. men. PONCE F. McCALLIN of Denver, who would have been graduated with the Class, died Sept. 29. And a bulletin, too late to make the statistics, tells of the death Nov. I of CHARLES L. VAUGHAN^ Lafayette, Ind., diocesan attorney, whom many saw on campus in June. One of the charter governors of the N.D. Foundation, he was a former president of his county Bar Association, a member of the American and Indiana Bar Associations, and traveled extensively for the last, speaking at in­stitutes of its trial lawyers section. A na^'al of­ficer in both World Wars, he was a member of the-American Legion and several fraternal organiza­tions. His widow and five children sur\'ive- Sym­pathy to the families of both men. Finally, your secretary, WALTER CLEMENTS, LEO ZGODZINSKI and other locals wish to re­peat their thanks to men like T\VOMEY CLIF­FORD, THOMAS CURRY, JAMES DEVLIN. SIMEON FLANAGAN and JOSEPH WALSH who-traveled so far to make the 45th so memorable. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 3T 
45 YEAR REUNION Class of '15 JUNE lO-n-12 
191 S James £. SanfoTd 
• ' • ** 1429 W, Farragut Ave. Chicago 40, HI. 
From the Alvimnl Office: 
Secretary JIM SAXFORD, who underwent an­other operation last spring, has recovered nicely. to judge by the volume of his mail. Jim's barrages to his classmates and the Alumni Office all have one message: '"Our 45th Anniversarx- Reunion will be obscr\cd next June 10-11-12." The object of the volleys is to maicli or better the highly impressive showing of the Class of '14 last June. Jim reports: *"Tlie following committee has been appointed: EMMETT G. LENIHAN, 1405 Hogue Bldg., Seattle 4, Wash.; ROBERT L. ROACH. Box 98, Muscatine, Iowa; ALBERT A. KUHLE, 117 S. Sunset Ave., LaGrange, III., and JOSEPH M. BYRNE, JR„ 828 Broad St., Xcu^rk 2, X. J. . . . Will start some correspondence among the members and get some material for the issues between now 
and June, 1960." Speaking of AL KUHLE, he is apparently pretty busy as IlUnois-Indtana-Wisconsin regional repre­sentative for the Social Security program. W. E. BR.\DBURY, '16, reports he saw AI in a Terre Haute telecast of a talk given to service clubs in Robinson, 111., sends along a newspaper account and adds: "Same old Al, and I haven*! seen him since 1915!" Back to the reunion. Sccrelar>' Sanford con­tinues: "JOE BYRXE and BOB ROACH are head­ing up the committee. . . . We arc organizing to 
bring back cvcr>- living member. Details will come from Chairman Byrne and Co-chairman Roacli. . , . "Ri\Y MILLER of Cleveland told me Sunday, November 1, 1959, that he wished to become an official member of the Class of 1915, so I will ap­preciate it if you will add his name to our roster. He has already volunteered to help with next June's reunion." Ray's name was omitted on the rosters you received; it was already in the mail, but you can add him as an oflicial member. Ap­parently Ray enjoyed the 1959 Reunions so much he decided to return in '60 even if he had to 
change classes to do it. Finally, in recognition of DR. GEORGE N­SHUSTER, who retires at the end of the year as president of Hunter College, the Board of Higher Education of New York City recently surprised Dr. Shuster at the dedication of the new 53,300.000 Hunter College library-administration building by announcing the name of i\\c building — Shuslcr Hall. 
Grovcr F. Miller 
1916 
612 ^Visconsin Ave Racine, Wis. 
EDWARD L. MOLONEY of Cheboygan, Mich., president of the Cheboygan Slate Savings Bank and also president of the Top o' Micliigan Notre Dame Club, has added a third presidency to Iiis collection. In its October issue the Straitsland Resortcr, a ^(ackinac area monthly, reported that Bd had been elected president of the Michigan Tourist Council in September. Operator of several resort hotels since 1919, he has served on the council since he was appointed to it by Gov. Wlliams in 1954, and he also scr\es the state as an industrial ambassador and member of the Small Business Commission. Kd sa\-s he'll devote his term to making Michigan invest more money in tourism. 
FATHER VINCE MOONEY'' answered a card sent to Holy Rosary Reclor>-, Columbus, Ohio: 
•"Your card stirred many memories of Notre Dame and the incomparable Class of 1916. If would be a great privilege to be numbered among those present for Reunion in '61. Your canjcra, which clicked so cfTectively for the '16 Dome, will no doubt produce conclusive evidence that Tempus Fugit. 
"Here in Columbus I have a lovely parish. The churcli is magnificent. The IIturg>-— the last word •— the people love it. Twenty-six sisters plus lay teachers and two fine assistants help me keep our parish grade and Rosary High Schools rolling." 
From Terre Haute, Ind., Tribune-Star publisher 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 

It*s a great day for the Irish at the Grantland Rice Afcmorial Award presentation, as (1. to r.) syndicated sportscnbe W. W. "Red" Smith, *27, felicitates a fellow alumnus, William F. "Bill" Fo.v, Jr., '20, Indianapolis editor, who received the honor from three more distin­guished sports journalists, Devereaux Milbourn, Fred Russell and Frank Graham, representing the Sportsmanship Brotherhood. 
LOUIS F. KEIFER answered a card in July. 
Wrote Lou: *'I am not retiring, but tomorrow 
I will be 65 so I can go on relief- Instead of re­
tiring we arc going to build a whole new plant 
in about three years, so I will be starting all 
over again. 
"Tlic only news I have is that coming back 
from Florida last winter I had lunch at Pcrr>', 
Fla., with *PREP' MARCH WELLS, former \^rsity 
southpaw who lived with us in Corby. .. . I went 
do\>'n to see Lou Jr. in Cocoa before he moved to 
California. He is with North America A\iation in 
the guided missile business and was at Cape Ca­
naveral flving missiles about three vears. . . . ** 
From RAY HU.MPHREYS in Denver, Colo.: "On July I, this year, I retired as chief investi­gator for the Denver District Attorney's Office after almost 26 years on tliat job. I figured it was time to relxx, get back to magazine writing and leave the underworld to younger and more reckless operators — I bad my quota of chills and thrills, raids, gunfights, threats — why continue?" 
Attorney ROBERT C. CARR wrote from Ot­tawa, III., in June: "It w-as 43 years ago last eve­ning that we received our diplomas at Notre Dame. It is just as well that wc had no power of looking into the future and knowing what would happen. 
*'I needed the last year of law before I was eligible to take the Illinois bar examination. I had this in my father's office here and passed the examination given in December, 1918. I practiced with him until he retired and have had my brother Joe here since 1924. .. . I have one son, who has turned out to be a meclianical genius. . . . I became eligible for Social Security on January 1, 1956 . . . but ... I am not too sure that I wish every- day to be Sunday. 
*'I shall think about going back in I96I, but in a sense all returns are dbhcartening. The alumnus sees how well his Alma Mater got along without him. ... " 
191 7 Edward J. McOsker 
• ' • ' R.R. 2, Box 1, So. State St. Rd. Elgin, ni. 
From the Alumni Office: Pittsburgh's LEO VOGEL checked in at the campus with his wife in October for a meeting of the Alumni Association Board of Directors (Leo's the Fund Vice-President) and only inci­dentally for the Northwestern game. 
191 8 <^^rle5 W. CaU 
•^•* ' 225 Patcrson Ave Hasbrouck Heights, N. J. 
Just pride hath GEORGE HARBERT, long the class secretary, with his son Cornelius studying for the sacred priesthood. 
Only a map-maker could have covered more spots 
^ 
than DR. NEIL J. WHALEN on his recent tour 
of Europe. 
For the sake of absolute accuracy may wc record 
that JOHN VOELKERS has moved to Winter 
Park, Fla., and not Orlando, Fla. They are nearly 
but not actualK* the same. 
GEORGE W/VAGE recently visited DUTCH 
BERGMAN at Fort Wayne, where he took some 
pictures which confirm his assertions that the 
former speedster looks fine. Incidentally George 
has just lost his mother, who was 9G years old. 
Notes might be more plentiful if your sccretarx*, 
CHARLES W. a\LL, had not been touring^. 
Europe for three months. ^^ 
HON. \aNCEN*T C. GIBLIN, after long years 
on the Circuit Court Bencli, has retired from dis­
pensing justice in favor of practicing law, with 
Siblc\', Grusmark, Barkdull & King» 605 Lincoln 
Road, Miami Beach, Fla. Vince informs he will 
extend the hearty hand of fellowship to all and 
sundry classmates and alumni at the Orange Bowl 
game next fall between Notre Dame and Miami. 
This ycar*s Freshman Pat Logan is the son of J.\MES LOGAN, who entered the University just 45 years ago, and is a member of the Class of 1918, with a degree in Journalism. 
10 | O Theodore C. Rademaker Peru Foundry Co. Peru, Indiana 
From the Alumni Ofiice: REV. JAMES MCDONALD died in October in Burbank, Calif. Formerly a mucli-loved faculty member at the University, Father McDonald was buried on the campus. He never really left Notre Dame, since he spent the last five years as chaplain of the Los Angeles area's Notre Dame High School. Sympathy and prayers of the Class go to his mother in Riverside, 111., and the rest of Iiis family. 
40 YEAR REUNION Class of '20 JUNE lO-n-12 
192 0 J^uncs H. Ryan 
I TAW JQ7 jj^g^^ ^^^ 
Rochester 10, N. Y. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Congratulations are overdue for BILL FOX, beloved sports editor of the Indianapolis News.^|. who won the most coveted honor available to the** sports writing fraternity, the Grantland Rice Memorial Au'ard, presented by the Sportsmanship Brotherhood for the best sports coverage in the tradition of the late dean of athletics reporters. , More congratulations are extended to FATHER we spent a very enjoyable evening with Harold, 

1921 ^^ ^^- ^"^y 

GEORGE FISCHER, C.S.C., who celebrated hU and his lovely wife Lucy, along with some other £ '^ • 1101 Superior Bldg. 30th anniversar>' of ordination on June 24. Father friends. 
^ Cleveland 14, Ohio 
I was pleased the other day to have a visit from ED GOTTRY. He was on his way through to Indiana to visit with the family of the late BILL FOLEY of our class, then on to Chicago before returning to New York and his duties as a psychol­ogist with the State Department of Welfare. 
He reports that JOE TIERNEY of the State De­partment of Unemployment, assigned to New York City, is doing well and especially well when wc consider he has the prayers of a priest son and a nun daughter going for Iiim. According to Ed, Joe is doing a splendid j"ob in his department. 

. ^ Ed also brought best regards from FATHER 
JbEORGE FISHER, now with a Holy Cross Mis­sion Band at North Dartmouth, Massachusetts. He had Intended to sec his classmate, PETE CILVMPIOX, before leaving Cleveland. Wc had a long talk, mentioning especially that other great piano player, CHARLIE DAVIS, ^vlio seems to be enjo>'ing life more eacli passing day in the furniture business in Oswego, New York. Incidentally, I had a call this summer from Charlie who was passing through Cleveland on his way to Indianapolis, on \'acation after some years. 
Mrs. Pat Canny died, after a long illness, which brought la Cleveland many of his classmates and most especially SPIKE Mc.\D.A.MS from Chi­cago. Spike brought good tidings from JUDGE 
^OGE R KILEY, JUDGE NORM BARRY, CHET ™\"lfNN, and many others of the Chicago creiv*. Talked by phone to LEO KELLEY in Syracuse. He tells me that DUKE KINNEY is fine and en­joying life. Kelley tells me that JOE BRANDY sold his radio station and is now active in promo­tion of phone vision with some Canadian outfit. Kelly also tells me that FATHER HESBURGH \-isitcd Sy-racuse for a couple of days on the occa­sion of his high school class reunion. The very visit itself caused so much favorable comment tliat it added to the prestige of Notre Dame as well as the good Father. From tlie Alumni Office: 
It was just learned recently that DR. EDAV.ARD 

P. WARD died last January in Flushing, N. Y. 
~lie prayers of his classmates for the repose of his «ul will certainly follow. 
1922 ^' ^' "^*^" Ashe 
I 7AA 175 Landing Rd. North Rochester, N.Y. 

Wc of '22 congratulate and extend our vcrj' best wishes to three wonderful priests of the Holy Cross Order, who celebrated their golden anniversaries of ordination to the hoK* priesthood of Notre Dame last June 29: FATHER EUGENE BURKE, FATHER THOMAS IRVING and FATHER CORNELIUS HAGERT\'. All three arc still on the campus, where they labored so diligently and 
.fruitfully so many years. We all should thank ^|i c Lord that He entrusted us to the care of such OS these in our undergraduate days. 
George is still attached to the Eastern Province of Holy Cross Mission Band. Also, 30th wedding an­niversaries Were celebrated in October, as follows: October 9, Mr. and .Mrs. R^VYMOND J. KE.ARNS of 1642 South 5th Street, Terrc Haute, Indiana. October 26, Mr. and Mrs. THONL\S A. McOVBE of 160 East Crescent x\ve., Elmhurst, 111. October 28, Tlic Honorable and Mrs. ALPHONSE A. SCOTT of 1669 Wellington Ave., Los Angeles 6. We felicitate and rejoice with these happily married couples. 
September wedding bells were ringing for two sons of our classmates, and both were married on the same day — September 5. Mr. Harold Earl McKee, Jr. of Western Springs, 111., was married to Miss Suzanne Catharine Wedemeycr of Mihvau­kcc at the Churcli of Saint Augustine in Milwaukee. In the other wedding ceremony, Mr. James Beyer Hcneghan of South Bend was married to Miss Helen Louise Jackowski of South Bend at the Sacred Heart Church on the campus. Our vcr>" best wishes go to the ncwlyweds and special greet­ings to the parents of the grooms Mr. and Mrs. H.AROLD McKEE of 4145 Lawn Avenue, Western Springs, III., and to Mrs. GEORGE (Phyllis) HENEGH.VN of South Bend. 
D/VN YOUNG of Foley Bros. Construction Co. is presently busy building a new railroad line for iron ore interests (Sheller Bay Project) of Pitts-Foley, joint venturers, near Seven Islands, Province of Quebec. 
The Class of '22 had three members in attendance at a meeting of our University alumni of San Francisco in August. R. JERRY JONES, FIL\NK (MONTRE.\L) CONNELLY and your secretary. Since that meeting, we have found an added starter, who is a neighboring classmate — DANIEL REGiVN, *23, of Houston, Texas, who presently is working an audit on the wrong side of the Bay. 
GEORGE KERVER of Cleveland writes this in­teresting and most welcome letter: *'Correspondence to Rochester, I assume will al­ways eventually reach you. 
*'I was hoping to see you and some of the other classmates at reunion this year, but In that I was disappointed. It was a glorious week end, never­theless. 
*'Ri\LPH CORYN is generally on hand at cam­pus doings. I ran into him at most of the football games, and expected he would also be at the reunion, but from what I could learn, no one other than myself appeared on the list for '22. Let us hope the bo>-s (we arc all boys at reunion time) arc holding back for 1962 to make it a big turnout 
— bigger we can hope than the fort>'-ycar class at this last reunion. There were only three of them who made an appearance: MAURICE CARROLL, TED RADEMAKER, and PAUL FENLON. Paul did not have far ,to come being a professor at school. While this 6rst War Class lacked in num­bers, however, they surely did not fall short in enthusiasm. All are friends of H/\ROLD WEBER, so their entire class of three accompanied me to Harold's charming place at Diamond Lake, where 
"Incidentally, Harold is leawng July 10 with a 

group of friends on a fishing trip to Alaska. This 
is quite an e!cpcdttioa for Harold to undertake. It 
is one I certainly would thoroughly enjoy, and I 
am sure that Harold will have a grand time. I 
started out my fishing early this season on a trip 
to Tamagami, Ontario. It snowed every day, but 
my son George and I with hard work managed to 
fill the freezer with lake trout. 
"Tlic very next time you are in Cleveland, you 

must definitely make arrangements to spend a 
couple da>-s with us at our trout club at Castallta, 
Ohio. Tlie medical doctors seem to be confirming 
the counsel that God does not deduct from man's 
allotted time those hours spent in fishing, so if 
you rela.x a couple of days with me fishing, we 
may stand a better chance of being at our 40th 
and also our 50th. Receiving the notes from 
DOCTOR iUT T WEIS and FRANK BLOEMER 
about the passing on of that grand guy and our 
dear friend, EDDIE BYRNE, surely tugged at the 
heart strings for me, as it must have for everyone 
else, including his family. Certainly, they have the 
deepest sympathy from all of us. 
"HAROLD AVEBER, tells me that he frequently 

sees JACK HIGGINS and reports him very well 
and happy. 
'*Harold and Lucy ha\'e promised to attend our 

Husband-and-^Vife Retreat July 31 to August 2 at 
the new ultra-modem Retreat House on beautiful 
St. Mary's Lake on the campus. FRANK CULL, 
'08, and lus wife Madeline, with Vol and me, en­
joyed such a retreat so much a couple years ago, 
•we decided to make an annual affair of it for the Cleveland Club. JOHN CHAPLA, '23, will definitely be there. He and his wife Katherine, were so enthusiastic about it last year that he has agreed to take over the leadership of the Retreat this year. We hope to get PETE CttAAfPION and some others of our time out to enjoy this rare week end. Anyone from our class.would be most welcome. It would be a great idea for our class to sponsor such a Retreat on the campus. I noticed that quite a number of the reumoners had their wives with them. .A, number of com­ments were made that the ladies enjoyed returning to the campus as much as the men. It might be a good idea for our doss to sponsor a Husband­and-^Vife Retreat for two da>-s immediately pre­ceding or following the 1962 reunion. Many of the ladies ^vho were at our Husband-and-Wife Retreat last year indicated their enthusiasm by urging that we be sure to arrange another one this year and every year. They say it is like nothing else they liavc ever attended. On your journeys about, you might promote the idea among other clubs that are remote from the campus. I must comment that bachelors are welcome, too. 
*'I am sorry you were not at the reunion so wc could talk about all these and many other things, but I hope that we can have a visit before many moons." 
From Oak Park, Illinois, LEO P. KELLY writes a note of inquir>' seeking information about his 
In this shot o£ the Class of '25 get-together after the Navy game any 1925 man should be able to pick out three of the Four Hoxscmcn (Jim Crowley was absent) among officers, members and wives, including a temporarily widowed Mrs. Jim Armstrong (far right), whose alumni secretary spouse always seems to be replenishing when the shutter snaps. 
Noire Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 39 
The smiles that wreathe the faces of these twenty-niners is easily explained by the occasion of this photo, the second annual post-game 
part}- of the N.D. Class of 1929, held 

roommate of \Vorld War I days in fall of 1918, while attached to Company II SAFC, Lieutenant Turk commanding. Leo and his roommate were billeted in 345 Sorin Hall on the campus. Inquiry' is being made about GEORGE GROWNEY of Rochester, New York. Classmates JAMES JONES and CLINTON LINTY, who presently reside in Rochester, can lend an assbt on that one. From the .Alumni Office: 
In early fall the newspapers were full of com­ments on the anxieties of DR. EDDIE ANDER­SON in guiding his Holy Cross Crusaders through another football season. A recent victory over Dayton made Eddie the sixth still active major football coach to produce lOQ or more \ictories at one school. 
RALPH COR\*X wrote in October, describing a two-week trip in the East: "Stayed with VINCE HANRAHAN two nights, and while in "Washington called on DAN CULHANE and PETE ECKERLE. .. . In Syracuse we had a couple of drinks with LEO KELLEY and DUKE KINNEY and later in Cleveland ran into DON MILLER for just a minute.*' 
Ralph planned to catcli the Navy and Iowa games. He reported hearing from many after the Mass Fund appeal went out but he hadn't had any word at the time from DOC WEIS. 
1 923 Louis V. Bmggncr 
•'^" ^ 2165 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Ind. 

You never know wliat the day ^vill bring. In June, tills comer received a refreshing note from a Classmate who admits he's been out of touch for 35 years. I quote: 
"Dear Louis — Ha\-ing just read your letter and noticing you still remember my name, I have to write you right now and, in my way to say no, I'm not dead, though many of you may liavc thought so having heard notliing from me in 35 years. I can hardly believe so many years have gone by without getting in touch with my dear old friends from N.D. But I am very happy to appear again and be able to say I am %vell. I have just returned after three years in N.Y.C. and Europe, IiaWng had the pleasant surprise to meet TONY GONZALES from Manila in a lift of the Ambassador Hotel in Madrid last year. We stopped at a floor, a man came in, looked and pointed at me and said "PEACH REY DE CASTRO'*! When he told me who he was ! almost kissed him. Just think, 35 years had passed since we saw each other at N.D. and he knew me. ^ly brother, Hector, is here with me. Also LOUIS RIVERA. ALFRED FORGA died last year in Arequipa, heart attack as usual. I'm vcr>' happy and proud I have just done something I had meant to do for many years. Please answer me. God bless you. Peach" Friends may address the Peach as EZEQUIEL REY DE CASTRO, Los Laureles 635, Casilla lOM, IJma, Peru. 
Peru again entered into prominence in '23 columns 

40 Notre Dame Alumnus^ December, 1959 
 on the canipus this year after a nip-and-tuck victory over Na\y on October 31. 
with our receipt of a letter from FERNANDO BERCKE.MEYER, Ambassador of Peru, following our "discovery" of him In the Washington Embassy last winter. Practically verbatim, this is the am­bassadorial missive: 
"Dear Mr. Bruggner: I was very glad to re­ceive your letter of Mardi 16. .. . I am very indebted to you for the information . . . pertaining to the alumni of Notre Dame. Occasionally I am in touch with some of the Peruvian students I met in South Bend and some others from Mexico and the Philippines. A few years ago I was a member of the Notre Dame Club of New York. . . . 
"You have asked me about my activities in re­cent years. This is a ver>' easy question to answer as I have dedicated most of my life to the diplo­matic ser\*Ice of my country, which I joined in 1926 .. . served in many capacities from vice consul to ambassador. Previous to my appoint­ment to this Embassj' ten years ago, I was Ambas­sador to the Court of St. James . . . and before as Minister to Stockholm . . . have represented my country in many international conferences and I have been a delegate to the General Assembly of tlie UN since it was Instituted. . . . With all good wishes, I am, Sincerely yours, FERNANDO BERCKEMEYER, Ambassador." 
Sorrow intrudes again. ED KREIMER sent me a Fort Wavne newspaper clipping of the last week In August, which Indicated that FIRST LIEUTEN­/\N*T JOHN R. FLYNN, JR., son of Mrs. Beatrice Balics FI>Tin and the late COLONEL JOHN R. FL^'NX, was killed the day before when the super­sonic jet plane he was piloting exploded in air on takeoff from tlie Griffith Air Force Base near Rome, N. Y. His mother lives at 2722 LeRoy Ave,, Fort AVa^Tie, Indiana. 
JOHN BYRNE mailed mc a tear sheet from the BufTalo News of Friday, April 10, 1959, showing a four-column picture of AL\RTIN H. BRENNAN. vice>president of the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co. receiving ^vrltten acceptance of his company's 55-million bid for harbor work from the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers. "Tliought you w*ouId like to sec how Marty looks when he gets a five million dollar job. John" 
FRED STEELE called in May during a one-day visit to Professor-Emeritus Henry Fronlng. He was on his annual vbit to his mother in Lafayette and to other Indiana friends. We talked on the phone briefly and Fred reported his physical condition to be much the same as when we saw him last June. 
FORREST G. COTTON Is on the marcli. He and his cliarming wife paid mc a \'isit in the spring, and our cofTec got cold while w*e laughed and recollected. He \%*as in town on a quickie trip in behalf of the National Catholic Community Ser\'­icc, of which he Is USO representative for the Mldivest and Southern region. Comes now a missive dated July 24 from Fod himself: 
"I am being transferred to San Antonio, Texas and my mail address will be CIO-USO Club, 217 Nacogdoclies St. ^faric and I sure enjoyed our visit with you in South Bend in June. The dis­tance being what it is now, I may not be with 
J 

thee in '63 if not I will send thee a wire so you'll 
know I'm still kicking and not under a tree. Tell 
those boys at scliool of my new address. Sincerely, 
FOD corroN." 
CONNIE ALT sent me two post cards in June, one from Los Angeles and one from Honolulu, whlcli indicated that Con had a nice summer. Connie suggests that we hold our 50th In Hawaii. ^'During a month we did not meet a single N.D. man on the islands. More N.D. men should \'aca­tion here. \Vc leave L. A. tomorrow for Las Vegas." Oh — oh . . . 
A post card from HY HUNT reached me about the same time as another card from him reacher*r% JACK NORTON. Hy reported the fishing fine^ the ale strong and soothing and the r\-c out of this w*orld. The post mark is Fort Francis, On­tario. Norton reported that Queen Elizabeth and her Consort failed to look up the Hunts while in Canada. ** . . . if Hy only ran out of oil, that's good, for he will never run out of gas." From the Alumni Office: 
A circular from Fords Travel Ser\icc in Chi­cago reminded of "Fords Football Specials" to all five home football games this year plus three games away — California, Michigan State and Iowa. Fords ^^•as established In 1933 by EDWARD 
J. KELLY and seems to be the most enterprising travel agency in the area. 
In October N.C.W.C. distributed an inter\ie\/ni ^^•ith HARRY W. FLANNERY, president of th^ ^ Catholic Association for International Peace and radio co-ordlnator for the AFL-CIO, attending a union convention In San Francisco. Harry stood firm for a tough policy on the Berlin question and other disputes w*ith Russia, said we have already failed too often In our responsibilities to captive nations. Trade and cultural cxcliange with Soviet labor chiefs arc useless, he said, because they are not free trade unionists but tools of the state. Harr>''s views were echoed in talks of American labor leaders with Russian Premier Ntklta Khrushcliev. 
I OOA James R. Mcehan O 
• '^ ^ 329 S. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Ind. 
From the Alumni Oflicc: 
A postcard from JIM MEEH/\N in Waikiki ex­plains the thinness of '24 news in this issue. On a Nanl Li'i color card showing the pink plumleria or frangipani (easy, now! it's a flower, not a kind of hula}, Jim writes: "Sorr>-I didn't get a story in. . . . Guess I must have been too anxious to get back to Hawaii. I'm enjoying the trip even more than the first time." It's o.k. Jim, as long as it's a good will mission to the 50th state. 
One of the Chiss' summer school gals, SISTEIUf 

M. ANN ELIZABETH, has become an acknowI«4 edged expert in the field of radioactivity. Owner of baclielor's and master's degrees from N.D., and a doctorate from Catholic U., she is head of the chemistry department at Dunbarton College, 
Washington, D.C., and is one of four women ^anions 40 scientists from 15 nations chosen by the Sitomic Energy* Commission to attend a special 
course this year at Oak Ridge, Tenn. She has in­troduced radiology into all her science courses at Dunbarton, aided by grants from the AEC. 
35 YEAR REUNION Class of -25 JUNE 10-11-12 
192 5 J**^ P- Hurley 

V 2085 Brookdale Road Toledo 6, Ohio 
Your class secretary sure missed the last "dead­line" by a wide margin but I had a good excuse. I was "Tlie Father of the Bride" at that particular time, and I might say, for the first time. Yep, it was another St. Marj'VNotrc Dame romance whicli ended at the alter. MICHAEL PETER UNDER­WOOD, '56, and Patricia Lcc Hurley were married by REV. JOHN AV.VLSH, C.S.C. The young couple will live in Bettendorf, Iowa (a suburb of Daven­port). Tlic best man was JIM WALDRON, '58, a son of a classmate of oure, JIM WALDRON, '25 

... . . you all remember "Jersey Jim." Jim Sr. 
^m d I had a lot of catching up to do on tlie good old days of Carroll Hall and even the "prep" school davs which ended at Notre Dame with our class of I92I. 
At our age wc get a dash of happiness and then a bit of sadness. Dr. FR^VNCIS L. KENNEDY, BSA '25, of 634 North Grand Boulerard, St. Louis, Mo., died June 12, 1959. This was a great shock to me personally because a few years ago I used to sec Frank when I attended those "Father and Daughter" dinners at Mary^-ille College in that city where my daughter Moira got her degree. .-\nother good friend of mine HON. EUSTACE CULLINAN, AB '25, died on August 13 of this vcar. High Masses were said for these fellows out ,of the Mass Fund that H.\NK WTJRZER our 
^^casurer is holding for us and of course you can send him a contribution. I will be seeing more of Hank and those Iowa Notre Dame games in the future because of the latest Notre Dame-St. Mary's merger mentioned before. 
Hank, JIM ARMSTRONG and I will be getting together soon to make plans for our thirty-fifth reunion. I hope to have seen a lot of you bo\*s at our reunion warm up on October 31 following the Nav>- game. Make plans right now to be on deck for our 35th in June. 
(Ed Note: Now that JIM ARMSTRONG'S two married sons have in turn produced male offspring, Jim might appreciate his classmates* suggestions of a s\'nonym for "grandfather" more consonant with 

..his youth. J.L.) 
^Trom the Alumni Office: JOHN HURLEY mentioned the death of EUSTACE CULLINAN, but his father, Eustace Sr., '95, adds a sequel. Among the letters received by Eustace's wife was one from U.S. Chief Justice Earl Warren, wlio, as governor of California, originally appointed Eustace a judge (Eustace was subsequently elected twice without opposition). The letter said: "On my return from Europe this week, I was deeply saddened to learn of your husband's passing. lie will be remembered for his distinguished career on the bench and for his many close friends. It is a keen personal loss. I shall deeply miss him ^^s a warm and valued friend. 9 "I hope that you will gain solace in realizing how much his outstanding ser^'ice meant to his beloved home community. . . . Mrs. Warren and I send our sincerest sympathy ... " There was also a letter from Captain Whistler, USN, who was Eustace's commanding ofEccr at Gtiantanamo Bay, as his father says, "a \vonderful post mortem 'fitness report.' " He says, in part: "When I inherited command of VP-32 I was 26 years old and still damp behind the ears as far as knowledge of human nature was concerned. 'Eucy' was my legal-personnel officer and a veritable Rock of Gibraltar to me. There were many times when I needed him, and he gave unstintingly of himself. One of the truly fine things that he undertook, ^> n his own, was to straighten out many legal en-Wanglcments of the men. . . . Tliis work was al­ways done well, graciously and willingly and ^\'as one of the key contributions to the outstanding morale of the squadron we both knew and loved." Mr. Cullinan also conveys the thanks of Eustace's 
JOHN W. GIBBONS, '30 To P.R. President, a Safety Crusader 
John Gibbons, director of public relations for the Automotive Safety Foundation in Washington, D. C., was recently named president of the Washington Chapter, Public Relations Society of America, and presided over PRSA's Regional Workshop Sept. 17, which brought together a record number of 345 public relations men and women from the East. 
Widely known in the highway transpor­tation and safety fields, John is public in­formation consultant to the President's Committee for Traffic Safety, the American Association of State Highway Officials, Yale University Traffic Institute and other organizations. Recently he was the editor of a special issue of the Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science devoted to highway traffic control. 
He ser\'ed on the staff of the South Bend Tribune for several years after graduation from Notre Dame and, becoming inter­ested in automotive traffic, organized and was the first director of the Safety Division of the Association of Commerce in South Bend. Before joining the Foundation staff in Washington he was director of public relations in Detroit for the Automobile Manufacturers Association. 
A native of Idaho, John was married in 1929 to Miss Marcella Butsch, of Mount Angel, Oregon. They have one son. Jack, 
N.D. *55; four daughters and four grand­children, and live - in suburban Silver Spring, Maryland. 
wife Helen and his parents for the Afass ofTcrcd by the Class of '25. 
The Oregon State Bar Bulletin had a full description of the ceremony with which JOHN F. KILKENNY was sworn in as a judge of the federal court for the district of Oregon .August 15. Judge Kilkenny was named to the federal bench by President Eisenhower early in the year and con­firmation came from the Senate late in July. The new judge has been practicing in Pendleton, Ore., since 1926, has served on the board of bar ex­aminers, on the board of governors and as presi­dent of the Oregon State Bar. 

Finally, thanks to FATHER SHEEDY, '33; DEVERE PLUNKETT, *30, and FRANK KELLY (*25, elsewhere) for the cooperation which made the '25 get-together after the Navy game such a success. 
192& ^^^y Gocpfrich ^^ 1109 N. Cleveland Ave. South Bend 28, Ind. 
JOHN RY/VN our own class president, and his wife Ona v-acationed in California and Texas this summer and took in some sights along the way; said he almost broke even at the games in Las Vegas and Reno. 
ARTHUR J. BIDWILL, president pro tempore in the Illinois State Senate, received the award as the outstanding member of the State Senate for the 7Ist regular session held in 1959. Congratula­tions, Art!!! 
I \-isitcd ART SUDER, our class rice president, in Toledo this summer. Art and his son and bro­ther operate the Suder Florist house in Toledo. This business has been in the same location on Cherry Street for almost a hundred years. Art is feeling fine and is looking fon%-ard to attending our 35th reunion in 1961- Also called twice at MALCOLM KNAUS's business place in Detroit, but he was out both times. 
JUDGE JOSEPH J. DA^VES of Leavenworth, Kansas, had a unique experience this summer, ac­cording to the Chicago Tribune. It appears that a federal prisoner was enrolled in a law course taught by Judge Dawes. While he was in prison, a lady attorney defended him. When he was re­leased he married this attorney, and Judge Dawes performed the wedding ceremony. 
From the Chicago Tribune*s "Wake of the News" column, it was learned that nineteen-year­old James Stack, son of DR. JAMES K. STACK and a sophomore at Yale, was among the American athletes competing against the joint Oxford-Cam­bridge team in London. 
According to Railway Age, ^VARD H. LEAHY. director, car reporting. New York, was appointed assistant to the general manager in charge of trans­portation for the New York Central Railroad. 
In September I spent a ver\* enjo>*abIe day of golf with FRi\NK DEITLE at the Olympia Fields Country Club In Chicago. 
The Class Activities Committee of the Notre Dame Alumni Association Board of Directors, of which our past class president RAY DURST is cliairman, turned in a fine report at the Summer Board Meeting. It is hoped that some of the suggestions will be discussed at the next Class Secretaries Conference in January. 
Some recent changes of addresses are: EDWARD 

J. XLANDEVILLE from Rockford, Illinois, to Bel­videre, Illinois; PAUL R. DEVERE.\UX from Los Angeles, California to Ossining, New York; JOSEPH 
A. NAVARRE from Lansing, Michigan, to Jack­son, Michigan; EDW^ARD E. FALLON from Rock­\-ilIe Center, New York, to Oceanside, New York, and ANTONIO P. ROXAS from Manila, Philip­pines, to Madrid, Spain. From the Alumni Office: 
Congratulations to A. A. KIRK (that's Aloysius 

Anthony) of Rcdiield \nilage, Metuchen, N. J., for having been named a Knight of St. Grcgor>' by the Holy See. .-M, with a Boy Guidance certificate and M..-\. from Notre Dame, was named for his ''outstanding work with the youth of the Church." A professional leader in scouting since gradua­tion, he has been na­tional director of Catholic Relationships for the Boy Scouts of America for the past eight years, ser\'ing 
as secretary and ad\*isor to the National Catholic Committee on Scouting. He assists in conferences of cliaplains, editing the "Chaplain's Bulletin,'* and promotes local and dtoccsan participation of the Catholic laity in scouting. Al is on the faculty of the National Training School for professional scout leaders and in 1950 led the National Jubilee Pil­grimage of the B.S.A. to Rome, where the group was received i,n special audience by the late Pope Pius XII. 
DR. MICHAEL MOLONEY, professor of English at Marquette, gave the first lecture of the annual lecture series at St, Joseph's College, CollegeviUc, Ind., on Nov. U, speaking on "The Catholic Col-
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 41 
"••^ -'"-^r 17 n • 
lege and the Intellectual Life." Author of books 
on John Donne and Francois Mauriac, contributor 
of cliaptcrs on Hemingway and Thoreau to other 
books and author of 40 articles in periodicals, he 
is a veteran of 30 years of college teaditng. 
*'Mr. CY C is the name the Michigan Catholic 
has for ED CRO^^'E, wlio has scr\'ed as executive 
director of the Catholic Youth Organization for tlie 
Archdiocese of Detroit since 1933. Ed was honored 
with a testimonial dinner last June, but the paper 

opined that none of the 150 friends gathered had 
the big picture on Ed's many acliicvcmcnts and 

activities, detailed in several hundred words, for 
instance: serving 65.000 kids with clubs for teen­

agers and young adults; homes and summer camps 
for boys and girls; scouting activities and a \'ast 
network of athletic leagues for boys and girls. Ed 
has also led the Archdiocesan Development Fund, 
United Community Services, the United Founda­
tion, Catholic Charities, the Mayor*s Commission 
on Children and Youth, the N.C.W.C, the Pa­
rocliial League, the Michigan High Sdiool Athletic 
.Association, etc, in addition to the Catholic Men's 
Athletic .-Vssociation, whicli ultimately became 
C.Y.O. One of the six fabulous Crowe brothers as a football and basketball star at N.D., Ed started as a teaclier and coacli in Detroit high schools. In 1956 he was both a ^'Spotlight Alumnus" and Detroit's "N-D. Man of the Year." 
107 7 Clarence J. Ruddy "^ ' 32 S. River St Aurora, HI. 
From the Alumni Office: DO.VALD J. AVILKINS has been selected to head the new Washington office of the .Advertising Federation of America. Don assumed the post on Oct. 1. For the past seven years he has been vice president and manager of the Washington office of Erwin, Wase>% RuthrauiT & Ryan, Inc. TIic Fede­ration's national office will move from New York lo Washington nest year. Don was selected from 30 candidates for the job. Tlie move was dictated by a need for a better educational and informa­tional link between advertising and the nation's capital; no lobbying activity is contemplated. Before his present position Don worked for Robert 
W. Orr Associates in the same capacity. He has had 25 years of experience as an agency exec, client ad director and media rep, punctuated by two tours of duty with the .-Mr Force. Entering as a captain in World War II to Inaugurate public re­lations for the Air Material Command, he later spent 25 months in Europe as a press officer for SILAEF, picking up a bronze star and returning to become chief of Air Force public relations be­fore his release as a colonel. Recalled for Korea, he directed recruiting advertising for both the .Army and Air Force. Don started with the Chi­cago Tribune, taught advertising and writing in Chicago night scliools and worked for ^VUliams & Clear\-, Inc., before the war. 
Business manager of the original Juggler for two years as an undergrad, Don married the for­mer Margaret Cosgrave of Omaha. Tlie 'Wilkinscs have two sons and two daughters and live in Bethesda, Md. 
Don's public service ad campaigns have won two national awards from the American public relations associations. 
199 8 Louis F. Buckley ^ 68-10 108th St., Forest Hills 75, N.Y. 
I regret to report the deatlis of GEORGE Mc-

LIXEY on August IB, 1959; EARL LAMBOLEY on 
Marcli 9. 1959; and the deaths of the wives of our 
classmates JOHN WALI^VCE and PAT CANNY on 
June 8 and August 25 respectively. 
GEORGE ^fcLINEY was vice-president and man­

ager of the Municipal Bond Department of George 
K. Baum & Company of Kansas City, Missouri. He was active in the Southwestern Group of the Investment Bankers Association of America. George is survived by his vrife and four cliildrcn, ages 9 to 22. His oldest son was graduated from Rock­hurst College a year ago and is with George K. Baum Co. His daughter is at Mar>*ville College in St. Louis. George was always interested in our class activities and attended our 25-year reunion. A Mass v%-as offered for George at the request of the Class. George died in a New York hospital while undergoing an operation for cancer. He had been ill only a few weeks. 
EARL LAMBOLEY died of a heart attack at a high school basketball tournament In Monroe, \Vis­
consln. Earl was an attorney in Monroe and at 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 
MIAMI — Club President Charlie Maher, '35, (left) declares Mike Zoro^-ich, '44, the ^vinncr of the Irish-Georgia Tech Sweep­stakes, entitling Mike to an all-cxpensc trip to the campus for the game. The Sweep­stakes was run for the benefit of the 
N. D. Foundation. 

the time of his death was public administrator in 
tlie county, secretary of the INIonroc Building Corp., 
and a past president and secretary of the Green 
County Bar Association. He is survived by his 
wife and a son who is a student at Notre Dame. 
Although Earl received his LL.B. in 1929, he en­
tered Notre Dame with our class and was very 
thoughtful about sending news for this column. 
He wrote several months ago advising of the sudden 
dcatli of HUGH HAYES, '29. A Mass was offered 
for Earl at the request of our Class. 
Mrs. Pat Canny leaves five cliildren, ages 16 to 

25; and Mrs. John Wallace leaves three cliildren. 
Tlie Cannys have one daughter and the Wallaces 
two daughters who arc nuns. 
Father ANDY MULRErVNY, C.S.C., has been appointed pastor of St. Pius X Church at Granger, Indiana, just northeast of South Bend on Indiana State Road No. 23 at Fir Road. Another classmate. Father NOR.\L\N JOHNSON, C.S.C., was with Father Andy at St. Patrick's Churcli in South Bend this summer. MIKE HOGAN sent me a copy of the June 21, 1959, issue of Our Sunday Visitor which carried a picture of Father Andy. GEORGE SCHEUER suggested that we plan to visit Father Andy's cliurch at our 35th reunion. Father Andy reports that he met ED PHILBIN of Clinton, Mass., in South Bend In June. Ed was there for the graduation of his son from Notre Dame. He has another boy there. 
I understand that Father Andy, VIXCE &\RNEY and PAT CANNY represented the Class of '28 at the Class of '29 reunion this vcar. BILL DOW­DALL, JUDGE BE.\MER, JOE McN.\M.-\R.-V and JOE LENIHAN, who attended our reunion in 1958, were also present for the '29 Class reunion this year. 
TIM TOOMEY reports that Mrs. Jack Lavellc and her children were guests of the New York Giant Football Club at their training camp at St. MIcliael's College, Winooski, Vermont, during August. Johnny, Jack's 12-year-old son, traveled with tlie team on a preseason road tour and has been named mascot of the club. 
The August 11, 1959, edition of Tlic Miami Ncv%'s carried a picture and an article on F. X. JAMES O'BRIEN, manager of Walston & Co., 265 East First Street, Miami 32, Florida. It described Jim's activities on a busy day in the Miami brokerage houses. 
Father JIM McSIL\NE, S.J., is doing his usual good vvork at St. Matthew's parish in St. Louis. Father ^UR K FITZGERALD, C.S.C., and I spent some time with Father Jim in St. Ixiuis In August where we all participated in the National Catholic Social Action Conference tlierc. Father Jim re­ports that CARROLL PINKLEY spent some time at a hospital in St. Louis where lie had-surgery on a leg bone. 
I have received reports on a number of' class­mates getting together rcccntlv. TOM HART visited BILL KEARNEY and DICK PHELIN ia Chicago 
and advises that there arc many broken hearts int the city since ED BRENNAN finally took that-^ fatal step. JIM HARTLEY, who is with American^' Can in New Jersey, saw F. X. JAMES O'BRIEN in Miami. RAY MULLIG.\N saw JOE M.U)DIN In Fort Wa>-nc. Joe is secretary of the mortgage loan department of the Lincoln National Life Insurance Co. Rj\Y MULLIG^VN has been in the-hospital recently and is now "living like a vege­table." BILL KIRWIN of Iowa City saw JOHN &\RROLL in Sarasota, Florida, in February. Bill also attended the first solemn High Mass ofTered' by MOON MULLINS' son in Davenport, Iowa. JOE L/\NGTON was visited in Peoria by BILL MURPHY, JOHN RICKORD and your class sec­retary. Joe looks fine and is back on the job operating the Langton Auto Supply Company. His 
two daughters are at Mt. St. Sdiolastica CollegY^ 
in Atchison, Kansas. BILL MURPHY sees CHEI ^ 
RICE quite often. Bill also talked to MARIAN 
HEFFERNAN In Louisville, saw BILL ARMIN in 
Birmingham, and visited TOM TRxVUGHBER in 
Clarksvillc. Tom hears from JOHN CARLIN, 
"The Sage of Kansas." The BERNIE GARBERS 
got together with the Lf\RRY CULLINEYS at the 
Shakespeare Theatre in Stratford, Conn. Larry 
had seen RED MORIARITY recently. I had cards 
from DICK GREENE of Muncie who was visiting 
in Hawaii,- from VINCE a\RNEY and STEVE­
SHERRY from Mexico. BOB GR^\Hx\M visited 
JIM a\NIZARO in Jackson, Miss. Jack saw 
BERNIE LOUSHBxVUGH in Washington where 
Bemie is a director of the National Housing—^ 
Center. Bemie inquired about RALPH CLE+ § 
MENTS and JOHN O'NEILL. 
Our classmate Father GEORGE BENAGLIA, 
C.S.C., President of King's College, received an^ 
honorarv- LL.D. degree from Stonchill College 
where he spent twenty years of his priesthood. 
Father George advised there are two priests of the 
Scranton Diocese who celebrated the silver Jubilee 
of their priesthood recently and who were in class 
with us at Notre Dame — Father WILLLVM A. 
BURCHELL, Pastor of St. Joachim's Church, 
Meshoppen, Pa., and Father L.\WRENCE P. WEN­
IGER, Pastor of St. John's Churcli, Troy, Pa. 
JACK a\NlZ/\RO informed me that FRED 
EVANS of Vicksburg was In the University Hospi­
tal in Jackson this summer after suffering a 
severe stroke. I understand Fred is getting alont^^ 
nicely. TROY BOXNER Is still single and lives 
in Jackson. 
BILL DOWT).\LL called my attention to an interesting article by ED MO^\'ERY In the July Issue of The Sign magazine entitled *'The ^foonshinc Racket." A series of articles documented by ED 
J. MO\\'ERY, Pulitzer Prize journalist, were issued as Senate Document No. 23, 86th Congress, 1st Session, entitled *'Efrorts by Communist Con­spiracy to Discredit the Federal Bureau of Investi­gation and Its Director.** 
GUS JENKINS had two sons graduating on June 7, one from Notre Dame and another from Miclslgan State. He has a daughter at D'Youville College in BufTalo. Gus dropped a note to me_,^ while he v\*as serving as a Supreme Court jurorJ^^ Gus mentioned that he sees BERNIE BIRD and MARTY RYAN. In addition to retaining his busi­ness interests Gus finds time to teach English for a half day In high school. He is also interested In the Airways Hotel at Stop 36 at Syracuse on the New York State Thruway. 
ART DENCHFIELD is now associated with Phiico, In Phllco Swiss, whose headquarters are in Fribourg, Switzerland. .Art expects to travel the South American territories and hopes to establish his family, including four bo\-s, In Florida. 
I mentioned In the last issue that JIM CULLEN took ofhcc as Common Pleas Judge of Bradford County, Pa., after 15 months of dispute over thn^ outcome of the election. Tlie election was flnallyCL \ determined by the casting of lots as the result of a Pennsylvania Supreme Court decision. Jim is the first Democratic judge In Bradford County since the Civil War. 
Your Class Secretary' Is now Regional Director, Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor for the Middle Atlantic Region, which in­cludes New York, Delaware, Ncv\r Jersey, Pennsyl­vania, Maryland and District of Columbia. My office is located at 341 Ninth Avenue, New York 1, N. Y. (Tel.: L.\ 4-9400). I hope my classmates will stop to see me In New York. A number of classmates were most helpful in assisting me get located in New York, including GENE FARRELL, JOHN ANTUS, GEORGE CRONGEYER, STEVB^ I SHERRY, BERNIE GARBER, BOB HAMILTONJC? BILL PLUCHEL, BUD TOPPING, HERB Mc-CABE, ED McCL.\RNON, DAN BRADLEY and ED BOURKE. Father MARK FITZGERALD, C.S.C., v\-a5 one of our first visitors in Forest Hills 
'%%'hcre he stopped on his return from Europe this 'wummcr where he studied the European Coal and 'stcc i Community. I met our former teaclicr^ Father FIL\NCIS BOL/\ND, C.S.C., in Ne^v York where he is chaplain at the Veterans Administra­tion Hospital at 1st Avenue and 23rd Street. He inquired about a number of *28 men. I visited Father XHKE MULa\IRE, C.S.C., this summer 
•at
 the Community Infirmary at Kotrc Dame. He 

•was
 recovering from an operation at the time. Father Mike is as interested as ever in the *28 Class. 


I spent a vcrj* pleasant evening with FR^VNK IvELLY and his fine family in Lee, ^fass. Frank is in the furniture and undertaking business there. He has an outstanding collection of CiWl War 

^. guns. Arc there any other classmates with this ^Hobby? Frank mentioned that his daughter met a 
•son of PHIL CENEDELLfV who was working in the Lee area during the summer. 
JOE HILGER reports that he attended the Junior week end at S'otrc Bamc with his son and met JIM ALL.\X and ED McKEOWN with their sons. Joe's daughter was graduated at St. Mar>''s, "Notre Dame, in June. Joe has also joined the 
•grandfather group. 
No doubt many of you noticed the '28 cover boy on The Catholic World for September 1959 was Dr. D/\N J. BR.\DLEY. Dan had an excel­lent article in that issue entitled ''Mcdico-Moral Problems and the American Public.'* Dan also has an informative article on rhythm in the magazine 

#**Information" for September 1959. I spoke at the Communion Breakfast on Labor Day at Neu-ark, X. J. Someone at the affair men­tioned the outstanding Job being done by RUSSELL RILEY as ^^ayo^ of Orange, N. J. I understand that Rus also practices law in Newark, N. J. From the Alumni OfiJce: Tlie biggest scoop of November concerns the hard­working Class President JIM ALLiVN, who has been ad\'anccd from third to second \'icc president of Lumbcrmens Mutual Casualty Company and American ^totorists Insurance Company, two divi­sions of the Kemper Insurance group of Chicago. Jim, who has been with the organization since 1937, manages compensation claims for both com­panies, beside seri'ing on the workmen's compen­sation committees of the Illinois Chamber of Com-
Vmercc and the Illinois Manufacturers Association, plus the Chicago Bar jVssociation's committee on industrial commission. 
It's time Jim's companies took the cue from the Class of '28, which should promote him from presi­dent to chairman of the board for his superb single-handed job on the Class Cocktail Party after the Northwestern game. His Bar Association ex­perience came in handy. In spite of several ob­stacles (a last-minute cancellation by the Dining Hall and the photographer, a confusing "snack bar" sign and other fluffs by the Alumni Office) Jim presided over a gay gathering in O'Shaughnessy Hal! — thanks to the Dean of Arts & Letters, REV. CHARLES SHEEDY, C.S.C., and his as­sistants. Profs. DEVERE PLUNKETT and FR.VNK 
9KELL Y — and managed a tidy surplus for the class fund. Negotiations are already in progress for a repeat on a grander scale in the same con­venient location after the Michigan State game next Oct. 15. Mark your calendar now! 
Federal Judge BOB GR^\NT of South Bend re­ceived the 33rd Degree of the Scottish Rite at the annual meeting of the Supreme Council at Buf­falo, N. Y., in September. 
TIic Cleveland Plain Dealer had some plain praise for JIM SHOCKNESSY, chairman of the Ohio Turnpike Commission, for his fair and suc­cessful administration of the pike since its incep­tion ten Years ago in September. 
9 
192 9 ^^u-ry Stauder Engineering BIdg. Notre Dame, Indiana 
Your secretary wishes to relay to JIM KENNEDY the sincere appreciation of JOHN L.\UGHLIN, *48, managing editor of the ALUMNUS for the numerous excellent photographs he had taken of the 30th Class Reunion in June. Among those submitted by Jim was the cover picture of the Reunion ifass at the Grotto. Another was that on page nine, of Jim and DR. GEORGE J. McDON-NELL. Since June 19 Dr. George and Jim are tied — each being the father of twelve children. 
^ If by chance you missed the FR:\NCIS MEYER pictures of the members of the Class of '29 on page four of the September ALUMNUS, look it up at once. If you were there it will bring back memories; if you were not so privileged ^-ou will sense the cordiality of the occasion. Wc thank Francis for giving permanence to the week end. 
Tlic new addresses of the following members 
of the class are: JAMES T. GALLAGHER, 6500 
^V'issachickon Avenue, Philadelphia 19, Pa.; ED* 
.\tOND C. GARRITY, Jr. 10102 South Wood St., 
Chicago 43, Illinois; THOMAS J. QUALTERS, R. 
R. 7, Box 67, Valparaiso, Indiana; THOMAS M. McNICHOL/\S, 1610 Orange Boulc^-ard, Kissimce, Florida; ALOIS J. ^NTELGENBACH SR., 4251 Creed Avenue, Los Angeles 8, California; DR. JOSEPH P. SULLIV/\N, U. S, A. M., c/o American Embassy, Managua, Nicaragua; PAUL C. McELROY, Shc­pard Hill Road, R.F.D. No. I, Xcwton, Connec­ticut; ALBERT T. FRf\NTZ, Colorado Supreme Court, State Capitol Building, Denver 2, Colorado; ^\^LLIAM F. CRONIN, El Camino Tassajara, Diablo, California. Wouldn't they be surprised if you wrote to them? 
JOSEPH F. RUDD, Attorney at Law, 329 Main 
Street, E\'ans\'ille, Indiana, father of four between 
the ages of 6 months and 9 years, wrote, in part, 
in reply to our letter of inquiry prior to the re­
union. "You have asked if anyone had an idea in 
relation to a class project. . . . 
"It is my understanding that not only is our 
class honored by haWng as two of its members the 
Father Superior General of Holy Cross in Rome 
and the Father ProWncial at Notre Dame, but 
also that it is honored by having four of its mem­
bers as missionaries in the difficult field of Dacca, 
East Pakistan. I raise the question whether a suit­
able class project might not be to become better 
acquainted with those classmates in the front line 
half way around the world from Notre Dame. 
"We can help our classmates in Dacca by or­ganized prayer and self-sacrifice, but should it not be orgiuized? The aid could be by a particular prayer at stated inten'als and a voluntary sacrifice of a luxury. On my wedding trip, my \vife and I spent one Sunday in Salt Lake City, and a Mar\'­knoU priest gave a little talk at ^fass at the Cathedral. He said that many la>'men make a small but regular donation to Marv'knoll for the inten­tion of continued success in business or the pro­fessions, and in return they share in the prayers and good works of the ^faryknoll missionaries. Perhaps some or many of our classmates in the United States would appreciate very much the assistance that the prayers and good works of our classmates in Dacca would obtain for them. Per­haps, too, a subscription to the magazine devoted to the Holy Cross missions throughout the world would be a suitable way not only to become prop­erly acquainted ^vith our own classmates but also with their heroic companions in different parts of the world." 
Joe's letter effectively presents his suggestion. We trust that among the readers of this column he will find a number of people who share his Wews and some ^vho will actively join Avith him in his w*ork of charitv. 

H/\ROLD J. MARSHALL, White Plains, Ncxv York, u-as not present for the 30th reunion because of lecturing obligations at Rutgers University, This is the last of twcnt\- years of scr\'icc of this nature to Rutgers. Son Tom graduated from Cornell this summer and son LYNN MARSIL\LL, *50, is 
a practicing attorney. Harold is an indulgent grand­
father to his daughter Shirley Anne's four children. 
JA\fES F. HARRIGAN, Director of Personnel, 

Hazeltine Corp., Little Neck, Long Island, New 
York, has been on the campus a number of times 
in connection ^vith recruitment. Hazeltine is estab­
lishing an engineering facility at Indianapolis which 
will bring Jim to Indiana often. ^Vhile he could 
not attend the reunion, wc look for^vard to his 
active participation in class and Universitv affairs. 
AHKE CH.\Vi\NNE, 312 Pere Maniquette Build­

ing, New Orleans, Louisiana, wrote in reply to 
HUGH McMANIGAL: 
"For your information I have been married these 

last 22 years or so and have had four children, 
haWng lost our oldest, a girl, at the age of ten. 
I now have two boys ages 17 and 19 and one girl 
aged 12. The 17-year-oId is just finishing high 
school and was selected as the outstanding basket­
ball player in the state — his school having just 
won the State Championship for the third succes­
sive year. HAROLD SPORL and JAMES SMITH 
of the local Notre Dame Club contacted JOHN 
JORD^\X as to the possibilities of getting him up 
to the old school. 
''As to the old man, I have been with the Magnolia Petroleum company for almost 26 years hanng started u-ith them in Lake Charles, Louisiana, and was with them there for 16 years as a clerk and later as an oil scout. X was then transferred to Mt. Vernon, Illinois, as a landman and w:is up there for five years (and incidentally got back to the campus for one or two games a year) and then was transferred here to Ne\v Orlcans — where I have been for almost the past five years. 
"Regarding BERNARD BIRD a letter addressed to him care of Drew Post Office Station, Lake Charles, Louisiana, will reach him, and you might also ask him how to contact FR.AXK T.AYLOR another e.x-classmatc who still li\-es somewhere in Lake Charles." 
Also addressed to Hugh is this interesting and newsy letter of FRANK HURLEY, 62 George Street, Massena, New York: 
"It just doesn't seem possible that nearly thirty-five years have flown by since the good old days in Brou'nson Hall. In those days a fifty years old guy seemed quite ancient, but today for some rea­son or other, oddly he seems much younger. 
*'I have worked for The Aluminum Co. of America for nearly twenty-nine years. At present I am a Staff .Accountant on special assignments. I ' have never heard of an accountant millionaire, so by inference I am in the category of just an average guy. 
*'My wife and I are very proud and happy to have been the parents of seven wonderful children. Jack bur oldest Is 27, a graduate of Dartmouth College. He is married and ^vorks for Proctor & Gamble at Hartford, Conn. Bill is 25 and works here at Alcoa in the Inspection Department. Mary is 22, a college graduate and was Head Dietician at ^Iasscna Memorial Hospital until her marriage of last July. At present she and her husband Jim Hazelton live in Cocoa, Fla.' Jim Is a Mechanical Engineer working for Boeing at Cape Canaveral. 
At September ceremonies conferring his 20-year service award on Harvey Foster, *38, in charge of the New York FBI office, arc (from left) Associate Director Tolson, Mrs. Foster, Director J. Edgar Hoover and Special Agent Foster. 
NQtrf Dame Alumnusj December^ 1959 43 
Our second daughter Anfi is 19 and will graduate 
from a two-year college course this June. Our fifth 
youngster is Tommy, he is 14 and a freshman in 
high school. He is our athlete and would love 
to go to Xotrc Dame. He has just returned from 
playing in the National Pee Wee Hocle>' Cham­
pionships, which were held in Houghton, Midi. 
Our >f3sscna All-Stars won the Xcw York Cham­
pionship at the Lake Placid OI\*mpic Arena. Our 
small city of 25 thousand people raised two 
thousand dollars and flew our youngsters a tliousand 
miles to participate in the i*tational Champion­
ships. Our youngsters did not win, but they gave 
a good account of themselves. The Tournament 
Directors picked two all-Star Teams, ^\'c were 
quite proud that our Tommy was picked as center 
on the second team. He was the only Eastern 
youngster so honored. At present he is the Hrst 
string shortstop on the high school Ja>-\-ee base-
hall team. Even with all hts actiWtics he still iinds 
time to be a good Altar Boy, and during Lent 
he ser\ed the daJIy 5:30 P.M. ifass. Our sixth 
youngster is Bob, II years old, and in the sixth 
grade at Sacred Heart School. He is also an 
Altar Boy and belongs to the Sacred Heart Boy 
Scout Troop, as well as playing in jantor Pec Wee 
Hockey and Little League Baseball. Our seventh 
youngster is Joan and she is only three years old. 
"I have always been interested in sports, and especially baseball. For a number of years I was active and held various offices in the Masscna Little League and the Babe Ruth League, but for llic last few summers I just play golf­
"I belong to a nocturnal adoration society. Wc spend one hour in prayer in Sacred Heart Church cacli first Tliursday night. One of the four men with me on my hour is CLx\YT T\'0. He works for Kinney's Drug Stores here in Masscna. Now and then I sec JOE BARNETT from Ogdensburg. Joe and I were roommates In our Junior year in Badin Hall. We just lost a wonderful Notre Dame boy, LARRY HODGE by name. He was a couple years back of us. He married a South Bend girl and he had a very good joh here at Alcoa. He had been ver\' healthy up until last fall, then all of a sudden he developed a stomach cancer. He died last month. CARDINAL 0*H.\RA sent him a beautiful letter. Larry had me read it a short while before he passed on. 
"I had a wonderful time at the 25th class re­union. It was the first visit for my wife and she just loved the €:ampus, especially the Grotto. At that time our oldest boy vvas in Korea and our next son was in Japan. Perhaps our prayers to the Blessed Mother brought thcift both home safely. 
"I cannot definitely say as yet, but I do not think I can make the 30th reunion. If there isn't a con­flict that week end with my daughters graduation I ivill try to make it. I had some 5%vcli golf matclics with JOHN MURRAY from Chicago at the 25th reunion, I had hoped to play him again, ma^iie I could beat him this time. 
*'If I do not make the reunion, I hope cvcr>*onc has the best time possible." 
•\Ve feel that wc know you mucli better, Frank. Tlie '29 Column ^v••ill be read and enjoyed if we can have contributors like you, 

JACK ELDER brought' this note from JOHN LAW with him to the reunion. . . . *'I would like to be with you but have conflicts including plans to attend the ordination ceremony of FRED AIIL-LER's sister's boy at Ma^^'knoll and the marriage of FRANK McANANEY^s daughter. If hustling \^Z1 E is present, he will probably set up the aspirin concession and alleviate the moans and groans the following morning." From the Alumni Office: 
A great time \%'as had at the '29 party after the Na\y game in O'Shaughncssy. LARRY ST.AUDER and FRANCIS JONES, who made the arrange­ments, are greatly indebted to the College of Arts and Letters for use of the A.B. Lounge. 
COL. JOHN HINKEL, who was back in June, has been appointed chairman of the Washington 
N.D. Club's Universal Notre Dame Night and has already extended an Inntation to the new Apostolic Delegate to the U.S. to be guest speaker. John taught at the National Strategy Seminar at the War College, along with Prof. Nlemever of N.D., and found several N.D. men among the students. He asks to be remembered to his old N.Y. room-male, FATHER LOU THORNTON. 
W^c hope class condolences and prayers will be accepted by the family of JOHN F. BULFIN, who died Aug. 23 in Chicago. 
Last of all, congrau to RAY HILLL\RD, honored by the ALUMNUS ten years ago for liIs work as New York's welfare commissioner, now recognized by Loyola for his labors as director of the Cook County department of welfare. 

44 Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 
CAPTAIN ROBERT E. LEE, JR., USN, '32 On a Binnacle Barrister, No Barnacles 
Robert E. Lee. Jr., presently assigned as legal officer, Na\-al Air Technical Training Center, Jacksonville, Florida, was recently promoted to the rank of captain in the 
U.S. Nav>'. 
With an A.B. degree from Notre Dame, Bob completed his law studies at DePaul University where he received a J.D. degree. In 1935 he u'as admitted to the practice of law in Illinois and married Gertrude Ackcrman of Chicago at the Log Chapel on campus. 
From 1936 until 1943 he ^vas employed as a claims attorney by Standard Oil (Indiana) in the Chicago office, and in Januar>', 1944, was commissioned Lieu­tenant (junior grade) in the U. S. Na\-al Resen-e. He ser\'ed as Security Officer, Na\-al Supply Depot, Pearl Harbor, until the end of the war, and after being com­missioned in the regular Naiy as a law specialist, saw duty with the Na\*al Air Transport Ser\'ice, Moffett Field, Calif.; Na\-al Air Training Command, Pensacola, Fla.: Office of the Judge Advocate General, AVashington, D. C.; Na\'al Air Station, Jacksom-ille, Fla; and was staff legal officer. Commander Seventh Fleet, prior to his present assignment. 
One of the highlights of Bob's tour of duty in the Western. Pacific with the Seventh Fleet occurred during Christmas week of 1957 when he \vas assigned as personal aide to Cardinal Spellman, who sailed aboard the flagship USS Rochester on his way back from Korea. 
Captain and Mrs. Lee now make their home in Jacksonville. They have twin daughters, Roberta and Barbara, who grad­uated from Jacksonville University this year and arc teaching elementary school in Orlando, Florida. 
30 YEAR REUNION ^ Class of '30 JUNE 10-11-12 

193 0 ^^^^^^ Plunkett 
O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 

From the Alumni Offiflicc: Now is the lime to get ready for the 30ih Re­union next June 10-12. As a kickoff for the big rcv, union campaign. Secretary DEV PLUNKETT, i^ spite of all his cares as assistant dean of .^rts & Letters, set up a party for the Class after the Southern Cal game but had to cancel because of the thinness of response. To all who responded he sends his regrets and hopes that the rain check will be honored in June. Congratulations to J. GILBERT PRENDER­G.\ST, who on Nov. 2 was sworn in as a judge of Baltimore's Supreme Bench, lianng been ap­pointed by the governor of >faryland in June. A native of Pcnnsyh-ania, he went to Baltimore for corrective surger>' on a football injurs* after gradu­ation and stayed on for law school and a legal career. Now a prominent trial lawyer, he brings to the bench his experience as a steel worker, city^ attorney, carrier officer in the Pacific and official of the Legal Aid Bureau. Judge Prcndcrgast and his wife Helen have four children. Neal, 21, Is studying medicine at Mar\-land; John Gilbert, Jr., 18, has started at Notre Dame; Mar\*, 15, is In high school and Peter, 12, is still In the grades. A hearty "wcU done" to Prof. \YALTER M. LfVNGFORD for 13 years as head of the Uni­versity's department of modem languages. Walt, who won the Lay Faculty Axvard last June, has resigned as a department head but will continue to teach and to coach the fencing team as he has done masterfully for 18 years. He also coached tennis from 1940 to 1953. A student of Mexico (where he did his graduate study) and expert on Latln-/\merican literature. Coach Langford ha ^ been president of the Catholic /\ssn. of Foreign., Language Teachers and belongs to several other professional societies. Congratulations to Mr. and ^^rs. FIUVNCIS >f. MESSICIC, whose son Fred married Miss Rosemary Graves In August. \\'ord has been received from FATHER J.AMES RIZER 1930 of St. Mar>'s Church, .Mexandria, Xlrglnia. that his mother. Sister Mary Rlzer passed away in Richmond. Virginia on September 5, 1959 at the ago of 80. Father Jim's mother en­tered a cloistered religious order for widows in 1946 the same time her son entered the seminary. She leaves three other children. One of them, Rev. Kenneth Rircr, is pastor of Blessed Sacra­ment Churdi, Norfolk, Virginia. ^ Sincere s>Tnpathy to the families of LESTER J.'_ KURT and HAROLD STEIN, who died this past 
1931 James T. Doyle 
• '* • • 902 Oakton St. Evanston, Illinois 
From the Alumni Ofiicc: REV. MAURICE JL FITZGERALD, C.S.P., Is the director of the Chicago Archdiocesan Home Study School for the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, sponsored by the Paulist Fathers.^ It's a d>'namic correspondence course plan which ad-iC) vertiscs free ixiurscs In Christian doctrine, then of-" fers additional courses based on popular Catholic books for those who would like to pursue the study further. Father Fitzgerald's headquarters is at 21 East Van Buren in Chicago. He's sponsored by CCD and voluntary contributions from the Press Auxiliary. Class s>-mpaihy and prayers go to the families of FRED COLLINS and NORBERT COL­LINS, who have passed away in Chicago and Yonkers, N. Y., respectively. .ARTHUR J. McGEE has been named manager of Metropolitan Life's Middletown, N. Y., district office. Art joined the company In 1933 and has worked in all phases including several field training assignments, participating in professional organiza­tions and civic affairs throughout the Conncctlcut-jC Upper New York area. Most recently he managed '' the Meridcn, Conn., district office. MOON JIULLINS has never confirmed or de­nied the legend printed a few issues back that he received a religious medal from KNUTE 
ROCKNE's wife Bonnie and returned it to Rock, 
•^nly to have it passed successively to Wendell 
WNTiUkie, Ernie Pylc and Tyrone Po\vcr, each of who died suddenly after relinquishing it. Origin­ally printed in the Chicago Trib, the story sounds like something out of Bill Stem's scrapbook. 
We'll close with a sincere Christinas wish for FRANCIS LErVHY that "oil's well that ends well." S>Tnpathy to ROBERT J. "SPIKE" SULLIV/\N 
on the death of his brother, Paul, Sept. 13. 
I ^3 2 3336 Kcnmore Road James K, Collins Shaker Heights, Ohio 

-^Vc have learned with sincere regret of the death " f BART 0'H<\Rf\ on October 8 in Denver, Colo­rado. 
Bart was a native of that city, and returned there to practice law when he finished school. Ke be­came one of the outstanding attorneys in the Rocky ^^ountain area and was well known for his work in civic and religious affairs, as well as in legal circles. His widow and children live at 6775 East Exposition Avenue, Denver 22. 
Bart is the fourth member of the Class to pass awav within the post few months, the others being REV. VINCENT URENNAN, VINCE O'NEILL and GEORGE MAYAVALT. Please remember all of them in your pravers. 
REV. JOHN H. AVILSON, C.S.C., told me at 

fl'.he Nortluvestem game that lie had recently made a trip to California and had seen BEN SALVATY, TOM DUFFY and GENE aVLHOUN among others in Los Angeles, and talked over old times. 
GABE MORAN. with his lovely wife, was at the Northwestern game with CHARLIE CUSHWA's family. Gabc said that their third daughter was born last winter which was news as far as wc were concerned. 
JOE CiVREY was seen at the North Carolina and Northwestern games, and wc were happy to meet his family there. He has a son who is a student on the campus, and a daughter at St. Mar>-'s. 
We spent a vcr>- pleasant hour with DR. JOHN KE^\NEY and his charming wife BilHc after the 

^Northwestern game. John has been practicing in 
^T-ouisville, Kentucky, his home town. They have one son who will finish high school this year. John said he sees R/\Y PFEIFFER regularly when the latter is not travelling whicli he docs almost con­tinvially. NICK RUFFING told me that he u ^ happy to learn that the RT. REV. PAUL H.\LLIN.\N could still sit dou-n to his battered typewriter and knock out a letter to his old friends. Bishop Hal­linan has been giving a series of talks in and around his Diocese of Charleston, and has con­tinued his interest in the Newman Clubs. 
Among the recent changes of addresses are: DO.MIMC OUELETTE to 265 Main Street. Bangor, Maine; MARCHY SCHWARTZ to 403 Perkins Street, Oakland, Cal.; ED WRIGHT to 859 W. Princeton, Ontario, Cal.; JIM REIDY to 3730 E. 47th St., Tulsa 5, Okla.; CHARLEY SPxVNGENBERG to 1080 Lariat Lane, Pebble Beach, Cal.; BILL MAGARRALL to the Y.M.C.A., Tucson, Arizona; JOHN FETZER to 644 Diverscy Parkway, Chicago 14, III.; AL CULVER to 3641 Connecticut, Gary 9, Indiana; and JIM DUBBS to 1003 Wisconsin, Mcndota, 111. 
From the Alumni Ofiicc: 
A footnote to the sudden death of BART O'HARJV: according to the Denver Register, a non­pro6t corporation has been set up in Bart's memory to provide educational assistance for needy children. Colorado Gov. Steve McNichoIs, several congress­men, jurists and businessmen were among the in­corporators of the Children's Educational Fund, Inc., foimded as a remembrance of Bart's concern for youth. 
Congratulations to TERRENCE J. DILLON of Chicago, III. Terry has accepted membership on Notre Darnels Advisory Council lor Liberal and Fine Arts. 
Ncsbitt Fruit Products, Inc., has sold its fran­chised grapefruit-lime drink. Sprig, to interests headed by EDWARD W. MEHREN. The Sprig president said: "We believe this change of owner­ship will be a major advance in the progress of Sprig. Mehren was one of the founders of The Squirt Company, and his experience and contacts in the bottling industr>* fit him admirably to pro­mote this product." Ed's company \vill head­quarter in Hollywood, Calif. Classmates should remember to mbc 'cm with Sprig. 
Sympathy to the family of PAUL F. SULLIV.AN, once a member of the Class, who died September 13. 
1933 Joseph A. McCabe **'* 2215 Lincoln E\'an5ton, Illinois 
From the Alumni Office: 
Back on August 2t President Eisenhower nomi­nated J. \^NCE^T BURKE, JR.. ot Pittsburgh to be general counsel of the Department of De­fense. Vince, a Republican, has been practicing law since 1936 and a member of the Pennsylvania Bar since 1937. In September the secretaries of the Army, Navy and MT Force, members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Bishop Carroll of Miami and Father Hurley of N.G.W.C. attended the swearing-in ceremony in September. Vincc took his oath of oflicc in the presence of Secretary of Defense Neil H. McElroy. (See photo in this issue.) 
GEORGE H. ROHRS was elected vice president of the Pittston Company in cliargc of all its oil actiWtics in September. He was also named chair­man of the Metropolitan Petroleum Corp-^ a Pitts­ton subsidiary. 
Finally, congratulations to AVILLIAM B. DREUX of New Orieans, La. Bill has accepted membership on Notre Dame's Adraory Council for Liberal and Fine Arts. 
T. Edward Carey 
1934 
223 Ehnwood Rd. Rocky River 16, Ohio 
From the Alumni Office: 
FRANCIS L. LINTON has accepted membership in the N.D. Advisory Council for Liberal and Fiae .\rts. He Is vice president of Allied Chemical and Dye Corp. 
Sv-mpathy to the family of M. ALAN FEENEY of Phoenuc, Ariz., who died in September. 
25 YEAR REUNION Class of -35 JUNE 10-11-12 
109C Franklyn C. Hocfaxeiter " ^* ' 702 Scarlett Dr. Towson 4, Md. 
It's been a long, long time since we took our t>pcwriter in hand and started to knock out a '35 column. ^Vc had almost given up that we would ever be doing a respectable job again. But the Twenty-Fifth Reunion questionnaires came to our rescue. Our apologies to all of you who have been longingly waiting for a "report to the na­tion." And our very sincere thanks to those of you. who wrote us notes from time to time. 
Before we get into an analysis of the question­naires — a few neu-s notes. Just three weeks ago TOM OWEN sent us a clipping from the "Atlanta Journal" about AL L.\UTON. There was Al's picture as big as life — with a bigger smile — accepting a check for 57,492,500 as proceeds from his new firm's over-subscribed initial stock issue. .•\l moved to Atl3nt;\ in the recent past and be­came president of Georgia International Life In­surance Co. The amount of the check is believed to be the largest ever subscribed in an initial public issue to start an insurance company. 
Congratulations to All No wonder he was smil­ing. We agree with Tom — "that's a lot of barrels of apples, even in the insurance business." 
TOM 0\VEN wrote that he has a daughter at St. Mary's and he wilt be up from Chattanooga for the Georgia Tech game on November 7. (Your 

CENTRAL NEW YORK—Mid-winter shivers may be banished temporarily by the aght of these Syracuse-area Notre Dame fanuUcs, only a segment of the crowd at the Family Picnic, basking in the warmth of mid-jiily. An attempt at identifying members (hut not at sorting out kids) is made in the Club report, this issue. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 45 
idea of whipping up some Reunion enlliustasm at 
the games this year is a good one, Tom. Hope 
this issue of the "Alumnus*' is off tlic press in 
time for the boys to look you up at the Alumni 
booth at the game.) 
Early in March ED VAX HUISSELIXG uroie 
tliat another of our '35crs u-as dead. JIM SUL­
LIVAX of Tcrrc Haulc died in February-, thirty-
six hours after bladder surgcr>*. Jim leaves be­
hind sbc cliildrcn, ages 2 to 20 years. Mrs. Sullivan 
lias been in ill health for a number of years and 
tliis makes Jim's untimely death even more 
tragic-
JIM HAMILTOX wTote us in Julv to sav that 

JOHX McGRATH had died on July 19, 1955. 
VCc have no record of John's death, nor do wc 
knoH- whicli JOHX MCGRJVTH tins is supposed to 

be. Tlic Alumni OiHcc carries none in either our 
^'deceased" or *'unclaiincd'* categories. JOHX 

JOSEPH McGR/\TH lias returned his question­
nairc from Scdalia. ^^o., and we have not heard 

from JOHX MARTIX McGRATH in Xcu- York 
City. If anyone can throw some light on lliis 
death wc would appreciate it. 
In the meantime, D.\X YOUXGERMAX will 

arrange for the appropriate Requiem Mass for our 
two men and wc commend their souls lo your 
prayers. 
Spring brought two letters from WALT MATUS 

in Holland where he is helping in the expansion 
of his company (Hewitt-Robins) in their overseas 
operations. (AVe long since dispatched a note to 
you Walt to say that wc never got your $8.00, 
to our memory', whicli would bear out your never 
getting back your cancelled clicck. Just in the 
event you never received tliat note, we arc re­
peating the message in our column. Your cliange 
of address has been sent to the Alumni Office.) 
AXD SO TO JUXE 10, 11 AXD 12, 1960 AXD 

OUR TWEXT\*-FIFTH REUNIOX! A few 
months ago JIM H.\MILTOX wrote a letter to the 
class telling tlicm of the successful reunion which 
the Class of *34 had last June with over 200 re­
turnees. TTiat is a figure for us all to shoot toward 
— and don't forget men, '*thc Class of '35 lias been setting records ever since wc got out of Xotre Dame!" Let's make our Reunion a new record! Wc can do it — ^vc just have to get on the ball! 
In the spring the Alumni Office sent out Reunion 

Questionnaires to all of our gang. Tlie>' were re­
turnable to the University and were sent to us in 
batclies as they came in. Wc permitted them to 
gather unopened until July when we began to 
t;d}ulatc. As of press time, 145 questionnaires have 
been returned. 
Wc thought it would be interesting to go back five years and find out what the response was in 1954, as we were approaching our twentieth re­union. The first mailing brought in 138 returns. .\ second mailing raised that total by 47 to 185. .Mrcady wc are ahead of ourselves, BUT WE HAVE TO RE.ALLY MOVE if x*e are going to hit the 50 per cent mark which is our goal! 
Txvenly-nine per cent of the Class of *35 showed initial interest in their Silver Anniversary'! ^\''e are continuing to work on the round number of 500 in our dass. .^bout 37 have died, but others hax'c chosen to be included in our ranks rather tlian with the class to whicli they originally be­longed. So, the number is more or less constant. One hundred forty-five is 29 per cent of the 500! 
AVhcre are the other 71 per cent? Could it be that they are not interested in what happens next June? Or did thc^* just not get around to filling in tlie questionnaire, and now it has been mis­placed or lost? We arc all busy with our day­to-day cliore of earning a liWng, fulfilling our obli­gation to our families and stealing tjmc for golf, cocktails, etc. But, let's gi\*c 30 minutes to Xotre Dame .AXD YOUR CLASS REUNION. It won't take that long to complete the questionnaire. 
To give the other 71 per cent a chance to get on the ball, a second mailing was sent out in late September. If you have not returned the survey form, PLE.-\SE DO IT TODAY! 
Of the 145 who returned their forms on the first go-'round, 115 said they were coming. And they will come from all over the world, not just the four corners of the United States. The far West and far South arc well represented, with the ex­pected crowd from the East and the Midwest. It is to you enthusiasts that wc must turn to drum up interest and activity in our TWENTY-FIFTH REUXIOX. Send out cards to vour friends and get them on the ball. TALK IT UP! PEP IT UP! ROLL 'EM OUT! 
Twenty more men said they ivcrc undecided about coming back. Various reasons given in­cluded: graduations of children occurring at the 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus^ December^ 1959 
CHARLES L. FARRIS, '33 As Housing Head, a Scourger of Slums 

On Oct. 19 in Cincinnati, delegates to the annual meeting of the National Asso­ciation of Housing and Redevelopment Of­ficials elected Charles L. Farris as president of the organization. 
As executive director of the St Louis Housing and Land Clearance Authorities, Charlie Farris has been eminently success­ful with a theory of urban redevelopment that probes beyond brick and mortar to the social and cultural disorders underlying the slum mentality. His first action as presi­dent is creating a national committee of civic, religious, labor, minority and other interests to study means of speeding and intensifying rehabilitation. Renewal and public housing are not keeping' pace with decay, he says, because adequate physical structures are not enough to combat anti­social elements in low-income areas. "A method must be found that will eliminate the fears and apathy of tenants and create in them a real sense of community belong­ing that goes beyond project boundaries." 
Charlie was deputy director of the federal urban redevelopment program in Washing­ton before he came to St. Louis to direct the fight against slums. His proposal of a big sports stadium in downtown St. Louis set off a $20 million capital drive. The 
N.D. Club of St. Lom"s, in its 1959 Man­of-the-Year citation, credited him with hav­ing done more to improve the city than any other indi\-idual since the turn of the century. 
Charlie and his wife Ruby have three sons; Pat, a soph on a scholarship at Rock­hurst; Mike, a freshman at St Benedict, Atchison, Kas., also on scholarship, and Terry, 8, at home. 
same time, serious illness in the family, uncertainty i as to job requirements and distance from ^"trs ^ Dame. Hopefully we will pick up half of the "poiN sibles" as we did in '55. Ten men definitely said they would not be back in 1960. 
Now to a few statistics from our tabulations. Total — 145; married — 137; single — 1; religious 
— 7; children — 469; grandchildren — 8. 
Of the 137 married '35ers, seven have no children and one has 10. fVnothcr has nine. As in 1935, our class seems to specialize in four cliildrcn since 32 men came up with tliis number. The second and third spots were held by two children with 29 men and three children with 27. These three top classes accounted for 267 of the cliildrcn. (Tlic same three classes accounted for 157 of the cliildrcn in 1955.) 
Giving you the total figures, it looks like thiiJO one child — 12 families and 12 children; two" children — 29 families and 58 children; three cliildrcn — 27 families and 81 cliildrcn; four chil­dren — 32 families and 128 children; five children — 14 families and 70 children; six children — eight families and 48 children; seven children — three families and 21 children; eight children — four families and 32 children; nine children — one family and nine children; 10 children — one family and 10 children. 
Seven of the reporting men have one married child. Four of the married children have eight clilldren of their own, broken down as follows: one has three; two have two each and one has one. Wc have four grandfathers so far reported in th< ^ '35 class. How many more are among you un^S:^ reported 71 per cent? 
We have tabulated 18 occupations from the ques­tionnaires, lumping several individual classifica­tions into a "scr\'icc" categor>'. Also, we have placed in an "administration" categor>' men who have positions of responsibility such as "president of companies," "district managers," "heads of departments," etc We did not give anyone a dual classification such as *'coach-teacher," etc. 
Here is how the total breakdown looks when spread across the 145 replies: Administration — 47; Law — 24; Service — 12; Sales — 11; Engineering — 8; Insurance — 8; Religious — 7; Medicine — 6; Banking — 4; Financing and Loans — 3; Funeral and Undertaking — 3; Social Work — 3 ^ Architecture — 2; Coach — 2; Accounting — 25? Dentistr\-— 1; Freelance Writing — 1; Unknown 
A word about our income brackets. Wc told you in the covering letter that you received with the questionnaire, *'you do not have to complete this question, but wc hope that you will for comparative purposes." We were verj- pleasantly surprised with the cooperation you gave on this item. One hun­dred twenty-seven of you 145 checked an ap­propriate box that fitted your bracket. Eleven chose not to answer and seven were religious. ^Ve might say that some of the comments from the clergy on this point were right cute. Thanks fellas'! 
The largest group fell into the $10-15,000 class^ with 34 men. Bunched together, but somewha77 behind, were the $20-25,000 class with 22; the $15-20.000 class with 21 and the $5-10,000 class with 
19. Tlien came the $30-35,000 group with 14 men; over $50,000 with nine and $25-30,000 with eight. Xone was reported under $5,000. 
Translating this income information to averages and comparisons with the national picture, as of Census data in 1958, it goes something like this — Our average income for the class would come to around $18,000, the median falling within the $15-20,000 group. 
Tlie average family income for the country is $4,800, xrith 8 per cent of the families earning over $10,000 a year. Recognizing that our incom ^ data arc presumably for the man only, and the-^ national figures are "family" income, there may be some error. But if wc take the data as given, wc find that 85 per cent of our class is earning over $10,000 a year, as compared with the eight per cent for the country as a whole. 
Nationally, 53 per cent are earning under $5,000 a year, while our class has none so listed. Na­tionally, 39 per cent arc earning between $5-10,000 annually, and our class registers 15 per cent in this category. 
Realistically our income data should be related to information on college graduates. Tlieir average nationally is $7,600 as compared %vith our $18,000. So, no matter how you Wew it, the Class of '35 is doing fairly well for itself financially. Somt^ of us wish we had more, especially when we are-' faced with college educations for our children, on the current market, but wc all have a great deal to be thankful for regardless of our income level. 
Incidentally, wc were very happy to receive 

class dues from 51 men totalling $307.00. Four sent along Foundation checks m the amount of ifi'^S.OO. Al! money \vas fonvardcd to DAS ^%*OUXGERM/\N for processing. For any of you who wondered what happened to your checks, wc apologize for holding tlicm so long, but wc were trying to wait until every last return had arrived. AH of which brings us to the thumbnail sketches on the reporting '35ers. Since the publication of the "Alumnus*' is slightly erratic, it is difficult for us to know how many men to include each trip to press. Wc want to bring you all in by Reunion lime and wc arc not sure Iiow many will respond to the second mailing of the questionnaire. Taking 
3. real flyer, we arc starting with 60 this time. Hopefully there will be three issues after Novem­ber and that should give us 180 more, or a total _^potential of 2-JO. j\s of now we can take care of 
^.w o issues and part of a third. Wc rely upon all of you who liavc not returned your questionnaire to help us make tliosc later columns full ones. 
To give cvcr>'one an even break, we will follow the procedure you found acceptable five years ago 
— that is we will take 20 from the beginning, 20 from the middle and 20 from ttic end of the alpliabct each time. Ttie first 145 men will be listed in tlie November and January- "Alumnus"; and tlic second mailing respondants will come later. 
At this point wc were drastically edited by the Alumni Office Tlie next 16 typewritten pages con­tained full details on the first 60 Classmates, but we Were told this would lake up too much room In an already crowded Issue. Following are bare 

^&;tatlstics, minus Firm names, names and ages of 
^'children, dates, military* ser\-ice. additional Infor­mation, etc. Wc hope all the omitted material will be included In a complete director\' of the Class lo be furnished to each of you before the reunion. Addresses have also been dropped but can be found in the rosters vou received rrccnllv. So, here goes! 
JOHN ALLEN, Battle Creek, Mich.; lau^cr; wife Beverly, four daughters and a son; will attend. JOHN ANN/\S, Birmingham, Mich.; mfg. agent; wife Marv \^rginia. three daughters, one son; will attend. VIC ARCv^DI, Atascadero. Calif.; psychiatrist; wife Thclma, two sons and a daughter; will attend. JOE ARGUS, Indianapolis, Ind.; realtor; wife Betty, two sons, two daughters; will attend. 

^ DICK BALLIET, Appleton, Wis; insurance; wife ^^faridctli. three daughters, two sons; uncertain for 'GO. GEORGE BARBER, Lawton, Okla.; banker; wife Phyllis, one son. two daughters; also un­certain, BILL BARLOW, Dayton. O.; salesman; wife ^ton^ca, two daughters, one son, three grand­children; will attend. JOE BErVCH, Metairle, La.; finance; wife Cecilia, two dauchters. two sons; will attend with wife. ^\^LBUR BERNARD, Itasca, III.; electrician; wife Lotta. two sons, one daughter; won't attend. BILL BERNARD, Springfield, IB.; pli>*sician and surgeon; wife Anna Frances, two dauchters, two sons; will attend. BILL BERN­BROCK, Molinc, III.; architect-engineer; wife ^fadgc. two sons, two daughters; will attend. JOHN BERRY, Streator, lU.; law^-er; wife Alice, son and ^daughter; will attend. BEN BEYRER; university prof: wife Helen, son and daughter: can't attend. DICK BIGGINS, Manhasset, N- Y-: mfg.; wife Grace, two daughters; attendance uncertain. REV. JERRY BOYLE, C.S.C., Portland, Ore.; philosophy dcpt. head: uncertain. JOHN "BUS" BREEN, Wlnnclka. III.; lavv^cr; wife Sharon, three sons, one daughter; will attend. RrVY BRODERICK, Phila­delphia, Pa.; law>"er; wife Marjoric, two sons, two daughters; will attend. ART BROUTs', Toledo, O.; food broker; wife Lucille and son; will attend. JOE BURCH, Vista, Calif.; dentist; wife Pene­lope, four daughters, two sons; can't attend. BILL BURKE, Portsmouth, O.; stove mfg.; wife Mary Ann. five sons, two daughters; will attend. DON 
^J.^COBI, Kcnmorc, N. Y.; clothing retailer; wife Catherine Lucille, three daughters; will attend. 
PHIL JACOBS, Alexandria, La.; insurance; wfc Jeanctte, son and daughter; will attend. JIM JENNINGS, Roswell, N. ^L; lawyer; wife Frances, four sons, two daughters; will attend. BILL KEEFE, Bronxvllle, N. Y.; pipe line operator; wife Barbara, son and daughter; will attend, maybe with family. WADE KELLEHER, Webster Groves, Xfo.; transport sales; vvlfe Alethe, son and daughter; will attend, perhaps with family. ARMAND KEL­LOGG, Rock Springs, Wyo.; architect, wife Mabel, four sons, two daughters; can't attend. BILL KENNEDY, Old Wcstbury, N. Y.; public rcL; wife A\'a, two daughters; will attend with family. 
JIM KEOUGH, Duluih, Minn.; credit bureau; 

^fwife Catherine, two sons, one daughter; will at­tend. ED KILMURRAY, Milwaukee, Wis.; lawyer; wife Irene, two daughters; u-ill attend. VEL KLAIBER, Indianapolis, Ind.; theater chain; wife Katherine, four daughters, four sons; will attend. 
ROBERT W. CAVANAUGH, '36 After Lend-Lcasc, a Purser for Peace 
Appointment of Robert Ca\'anaugh as treasurer of the International Bank for Re­construction & Development (better kno\vn as the ^Vorld Bank) \vas annoimced in October by President Eugene R, Black, Bob has been associated with the World Bank since 1947 as chief of the Finance Division and in 1956 was also named as­sistant treasurer of the International Finance Corp. 
Since his graduation at the height of the Depression, Bob's career in government banking has closely paralleled the course of U.S. history, from economic revi\'al through mobilization and war to settlement and pursuit of peace in world trade. 

A native of Oil City, Pa. where his father was one of the foimders of the Pennzoil Co., Bob was active in dramatics and interhall athletics, an officer of the Student Council and Commerce Fonmi. After graduation {cum laude) he joined the Field Audit Division, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. In 1941 he became an executive officer in Chicago for both F.D.I.C, and the Alien Property Custodian, handling the assets of enemy governments in this country. He became chairman of lend-lease fiscal operations in the Foreign Economic Administration in 1944 and later worked with both Treasury and State De­partments in the lend-lease settlement pro­gram. The government of Belgium made him an honorary officer in the Order of Leopold II in recognition of his world service. In 1947 he attended the Mone­tary and Financial Conference in London as financial advisor to World Bank President John McCloy. Since then his World Bank duties have required much travel abroad, away from wife Ruth and Bob, Jr., ar­ranging international bond issues and de­velopment loans among 69 nations. 
Active in the N.D. Club of Washington, D.C., Bob is a former president, governor and Foundation chairman. 
BOB KNAPPMAN, Sacramento, Calif.; rocket en­gineer; mfc Edna, three daughters, t^vo sons; wHI attend with family. FRANK KOPPELBERGER, Oshkosh, ^Vis.; theater chain; wife Carol, t^vo daughters, one son; will attend, BILL KORTH> Huntingtoti ^Voods, Mich.; mfg. controller; wife Katherine, three sons, one daughter; vnXl attend. JOHN KREBSER, Kokomo, Ind,; mfg. rep.; wife Mary, no children; will attend. GEORGE KRUG> East ^Villiston, N. Y.; lawyer; wife Helen, two sons; uncertain, 
VIC KURZWEG, MeUirie, La.; mfgr,, oil oper­ator; wife Katherine, four sons, one daughter; will attend, LARRY LAFFERTY, Elmhurst, III.; mfg. mgr.; wife Betty, two daughters; will attend. TOM LaLONDE, Glcncoe, 111.; mfg. salesman; wife Dorothy, son and daughter; will attend. JOHN Lf\NG, San Carlos, Calif.; sales mgr.; wife Mar­jorie, son and grandson; will attend. BOB LEE, New Haven, Conn; finance, etc.; wife Glad>-s, two sons, two daughters; will attend. LARRY SMITH, East Liverpool, O.; attorney; wife Elizabeth, four daughters, one son; will attend. TOM ST^VNDISH, Houston, Tex.; light and poiver; wife Elizabeth, five daughters, four sons; will attend. BILL STEIS, WJER, Dover, O.; broadcasting mgr.; wife Sally, two sons; will attend, maybe with family. 
WEST STREHL, Memphis, Tenn.; engineer; wife Thelma, no children; uncertain. JIM SUL­HV/\N, E\-anston, 111.; funeral director; wife Char­lotte, three sons, one daughter; will attend. MAURIE TOMBRxVGEL, Studio City, Calif.; free­lance writer; wife Yvonne, two daughters; •will try to attend, CLx\UDE TOUREK, LaGrange, III.; mfgr.; wife Kathr>'n, two sons, one daughter; will attend, mavbe with familv. 
NORB TOUSSAINT, Skokie, III.; consultant; wife Mary, five daughters, one son; will attend. WALT TYLUTKI, Chicago, 111.; auditor; wife Anne, no children; will attend and suggests Class golf tourney with token prizes for all. ED VAN HUISSELING, Elmhurst, III.; wife MathUde, t%vo daughters; will attend If possible, with family. FRANK "V'EE (VUKOVICH), Silver Springs, Md.; civil service. Defense Dept.; ^vife Florence, t^vo daughters; will return with family. JOHN VER­B.\NC, Wilmington, Del.; mfg. research; •wife Margaret, three daughters, two sons; \«II attend. TOM WALSH, West Hempstead, L. I.; insurance; wife Gertrude, two sons, one daughter, all adopted; will attend, likely with family, 
TO.M WALSH, JR., Non\-aIk, Conn.; construc­tion; wife Ann, three sons, one daughter; will at­tend. SPENCE WALTON, Mishawafca, Ind.; judge; wife Edna, three .daughters, one son; will be there. CARL WEBER, Kankakee, III.; export mgr,; wife Mary, three sons; will attend. FRANK %VEL­DON, East Norwalk, Conn.; sales mgr.; wife Marion, two boys, four daughters; will attend. CHARLIE WILLIAMSEN, New Hyde Park, L, I., 
N. Y.; metallurgist; wife Harriet, son and daughter; will attend with family, GENE WTTCH­GER, Indianapolis, Ind.: sales mgr.; wife Betty, five sons; will attend, D.AX YOUNGERMAN, South Bend, Ind.; procurement dir,, missiles; ^vife Frances, three daughters; will be there on local committee. 
And that brings us to the end of the first 60. Wc have available 85 more, BUT WE ARE LOOK­ING FOR^VARD TO ANOTHER 100 AS THE RESULT OF THE SECOND MAILING OF THE QUESTIONNAIRE. There are many of the familiar names among the missing. Here are a few: ARNHEITER, BALLMAN, BAMBENEK, BATCHELLOR, BECK, BOA\"DREN, BRACKEN, BRAGG, BRETT, BRIED, BROOKMEYER, BUCCI, BYRNES. CALDWELL, CARESIO, CAREY, CARTON, CLARK, COEN, COLE, CON­LON, CRONIN, CROWLEY, GUSHING, D'AMORA, DAUSMAN, DeLU, DEMERS, DI­NEEN, DOOLEY. DOUGHER, DOYLE, DUBS, DUDLEY, DUFFEY. DUNN, EDWARDS. ERDLE, ESSER, FAIRHEAD, FELTS, FISHER, FLAN­AG.AN, FLANIGAN, FORBES, FOSS, FOY. FRY, GAFNEY, GAINER. GAN'NON. GERRTTS, GER­VASIO. GLANZNER, GLENTf, GORMAN. GRAVES, GUIMONT, HALLBERG, GARRIS, HELMER. HENDELE, HENNEBERGER, HENRY, HIGGINS,' HILL, HILS, HOFFERT, HOGAN, HOWARD, IS5ELMAN, JOHN, JORDAN, KALEY. KAVANAUGH, KEATING. KELLY, KENLINE, KIRLEY, KRANZFELDER, KU­HARICH, KUNZ. LaMONICA, LA>VTON, LEON­ARD, LINK, LIVELY, LONEGAN, LORD, LOVE, LYNCH. 
.Also, MacDEVrrr. MacDONALD, MALLOY, MARGRETT, MAROHN, MASTERSON. JUTUS , MAXWELL. MEAD, MEASER, MELINKOVICH, METTLER, MILLER, MOLINARI, MORAN, MORLEY, MULVANEY, MURPHY, MURTHA. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 2959 47 
MYROX, NAXOVIC, NEESOX, XERAD, OAKES, 0*COXXOR, 0*.MEARA, O'XEIL, O'REILLY, OTTE, PETRILLO, PETTLN'GILL, PFEIL, PICKARD, PREZEBEL, QUIGLEV, QUIXX, RENXEKAMP, REVILLE, ROARK, ROXZONE, RUBLEY, RUBY, SAXDER, SAXTAXIELLO, SAXTULLI, SCHILL. SCHMIDT, SCHUEPPERT, SEE, SEYMOUR, SHAMLA, SHAXAHAX, SHA­NER, SHAXLEY, SHEILS, SHEPHARD, SLAT­TERY, SLUSZKA, STRIXGER, TIMXEY, TOM­HOWID, UXDERKOFLER, VAIRO, VAN ET­TEX, VAXDERHEYDEX, VAX LAHR, VAX PETTEX, MTTER, A\*ACKERM/\X, WACKS, WALTER, WALTERS, WASHKO, \\'EIDXER, WEIGAXD, >\'ELSH. WISCHXIA, WUXDERLY, YAEGER, YATES, YOUXG, ZlM^rERS. 
Let's get questionnaires in from tliesc, shall ive? 

Incidentally, CLIFF DUDLEY was at Ft. Mcadc 
with his Kentucky Miliiar>' Government Co. last 
month. We spent a vcr\' Hquid evening with lum 
at the Officers Club. Should have brought your 
questionnaire with you. Colonel! 
Mail has been returned from the following — 

can you help us locate them? Eacli of us has a 
friend among the list — here ihcv arc: AXDRE­
OXI, BARRY, HARTLEY, BOXAR, CASAZZA, 
CATALAXE, aWEXDER, CLEMEXTS, CUL­
LEX, DO.VOV^\.N*, DOYLE. ELLW.AXGER, 
GOODEX, GROOS, GROSSO, HAMM, HART 
(PAUL), HELLEXTHAL, HILL (GEORGE), 
JASSOY, L.\XDMESSER, LEH.\X, LORITSCH, 
MacIS.UC, .MOSHER, MURPHY (JOHX F.), 

NORTOX, O'CO.VXOR (JOHX JOSEPH), 
0\\fALLEY, PERRY, RAIXEY, ROCES (JESUS), 
SETTLES, SHAY, SHEEDY, SMFTH (WILLIAM), 
STEINBERG, TORREY» \\TXKEL and WYKOFF. 
To lose these men to the Class is a tragedy! 

Let's tr\* to find them and notify the Alumni 
Office. 
Thanks for helping us restore the *35 column to 

its old status. After all, wc can only make it 
what you want it to be. by receiving your help. 
Keep it rolling in, PLE.\SE. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Secretary- FR/\XK HOCHREFrER has done it 

again, recently directing and playing a character 
role in the farce comedy "I Like It Here,*' pro­
duced by Baltimore's Vagabond Theatre. Quoth 
a critic in a local saloon Journal: "Most of the 
time, Franklyn Hochrcitcr is on stage as Willie 
Kringlc. His is a difficult part which he handles 
with ease and a major portion of the laughs arc 
due to Iiis exuberant antics. Even his dialect 
ia speech is exuberant. .. . It is directed by the 
same Mr. Hoclirciter. . . . To mention that direct­
ing and acting happens to be a tremendous assign­
ment is putting it mildly. But this capable gentle­
man seems to have met all requirements." 
DON J.ACOBI, mentioned above, recently ad­

dressed a meeting of men's and boys* wear re­
tailers in the Albany-Troy, X. V., area. Don is 
past president of the ^fen's & Boy's Wear Guild 
of Buffalo. 
JAMES A. M.AROHX has resigned as \-ice presi­

dent and controller of Crane Company and has been 
named executive vice president of Leccc-Ne\ille 
Company, Cleveland electrical and mechanical 
manufacturers. 
193 & Robert F. Enin 
• ' ^ 1329 Kensington Rd. Grosse Pointc Park, Mich. 
Tilings arc looking up! We received a nice long 

letter from BUDDY GOLDMAX and I hope that 
his display of cncrg\* in tlic middle of a hot sum­
mer will causi: a lot more of our Class to jam this 
column. Buddy writes as follows: 
*'Very humbly and apologetically do I admit this, the first self-news I have given to a class secretary- in at least ten years. However, the de­viations from routine have been minor and perhaps that is ^vhy I have not been too conversant con­cerning my status. A cliange has occurred and thus this letter. About two weeks ago began my move to Tucson, .Arizona. Because of a severe sinus condition I was advised to relinquish my hold on the wonderful city of Dallas, Texas, ily wife, Eleanor, and sons Bill (12) and Jim (7) had become staunch Tcxans during our more tlian ten years there and our departure \«'as not ex­actly tcar-exempt. .About half of my working life there u'as dc\'oted to TTie Dallas Morning Xcws and then to Texlite, Inc., an international manu­facturer of sign and architectural products. AI­vrays in an advertising and public relations ca­pacity*. Unwise would I have been to thv\-art the doctor's advice aad so here wc arc. Very fortu­nately and very coincidentally, I have some family here in Tucson and have visited here several times 
48 Notre Dame Alumnus, December^ 1959 
BERNARD A. MARTY, '37 Through Drug Development, Asthma Aids 
.•\t years end Bernard Marty has com­pleted 22 years in the pharmaceutical in­dustr>*, sending in \*arious capacities for Invin,. Neisler & Co. of Decatur, Illinois, until he reached the company's top develop­ment job. 
Following the receipt of his B.S. degree in pharmacy, Bemie joined Irwin, Neisler & Co. as a medical scr\*icc representative and served in that capacity until 1942. He then received successive promotions, rising to his present position as vice president in charge of product development and a mem­ber of the management committee. During his tenure in this position, he has gained recognition in the form of U. S. patents for his work in developing two outstanding products used in the treatment of asthma. 
.As a charter member, Bernic has been active in organizing and leading the Notre Dame Club of Decatur. He served as its president during I958-I959 and was hon­ored as Decatur's "Notre Dame Man of the Year for 1959.'* In addition to his alumni activities, Bemie maintains active membership in the Pharmaceutical Manu­facturers' Association, American Pharma­ceutical Association. Society of Pharmacists in Industry, and the Decatur Club. 
Bemie married Dolores Dougherty of Decatur in 1943. They reside in their newly acquired home at 201 Redwood Lane and arc members of St. Patrick's Parish. 
in the past few years. So, wc come not as strang­ers. This, as you might know, is a delightful city of a quarter of a million people and one of the three fastest-growing areas in the good old U.S..\. (The other two being Dallas and Phoenix.) 
**I haven't been here long enough to discover many X'oire Dame grads. Just two to date — JIM DURBIX, General Manager of the Pioneer Hotel, the top hostelry- in Tucson, and BOB FEUER, for­merly of South Bend and now here in the real estate business. 
" I am still in the throes of making cither a job 

or investment connection but have no doubts as 
to tlie future because this is indeed the land of op^n^. 
portunity as well as the land of the sun. ^ 'i 
"Perhaps my greatest regret in leaving Dallas | necessitated severing close ties with my good friend fi JOHN MORAN ('36), his charming and talented wife, Pat, and their two fine sons, Mike and Dennis. John and I have been virtually inseparable since wc met on the campus in 1932. Uprooting self and family is not a simple chore but with cliange comes many spiritual benefits and wc look forward to the full life here. If sucli *3S characters as LEB CIFRESE. EMILIO GERVASIO (both of iforris­town, X. J.),- ANDY HUFXAGEL, upstate X. Y., or CLIFF BROWN, Xor^ralk, Ohio, ever come out here on vacation — be sure to look for me. ' 
"Tlianks, Bob, for the privilege of telling the Class of '36 of my whereabouts and good luck t<^0 all of them and yourself.*' 
It was real good to licar from you. Buddy, and I hope you will plan now to stir up some more Class interest in your area. 
DR. FRED GABRIEL sent us a nice letter last spring from Erie, Pennsylvania. He tells us that the local group there is generating quite a bit of activity and that our own JOE BARBER is quite active. 
Early last spring, FATHER ED. HAMXfER dropped us a nice card from Nassau, Bahamas, and said he ran into BILL FIEWIEGER and his wife who were \*3cationing in that part of the world. 
I suspect that by now most of you have heard the sad news of LUKE TIERXAX's death in Chi--^ cago. I am sure that I express the feeling of out ^ entire Class in extending our s>-mpathy to his family. I will never forget Luke when I think of the hectic actix'ity to collect bonfire material in our freshman year for a pep rally. Despite an arm in a sling, Luke was in command of the situation all the way. Let's not forget Luke in our prayers. 
JIM SHERRY and I have been talking about ways and means to build up a good attendance at our twenty-fifth reunion in I96I and by the time this column is printed you will no doubt have received from the Alumni Office a little question­naire which wc hope you will have completed and mailed. Surely from the material received wc can compile some neu's items of interest to all of us. From the Alumni Office: ^ ^ 
Since this column has been delayed. BOB ERVIN v \\-ant5 to add that he appreciates the tremendous ' response to the '36 questionnaire and guarantees that future issues will be packed with '36 news. 
Uarco, Inc., business form manufacturer, has announced the election of ADELBERT C. BAUR as a vice president. He'll continue as general sales manager for the company, which he joined in 1939. 
AUGUSTIXE REGIS KELLEV has joined the staff of a Congressional subcommittee study of spe­cial education and rehabilitation as assistant to the director and special legislative consultant. He ^^"as formerly administrative assistant in the legal de­partment of the General State Authority, Harris­burg, Pa. Xo stranger to the "Hill," he has ^ been a congressional press secretary- and staff chic^^ of the subcommittee on labor standards of the House Committee on Education and Labor. 
Erstwhile classmate FRED HEIDER, who pro­duced the ill-fated Firestone Hour on television, spent the summer producing the well-regarded TV special *'^fusic for a Summer Xight" on the ABC Network. 
Joseph P. Quinn 

1937 
P.O. Box 275 Lake Lcnape Andover, N. J. 
O

My correspondents have been too busy golfing^ -' fishing, etc., to answer the call for news. The percentage of returns is lower than the interest paid by our bankers. 
A few names long missing from the column ap­pear this time. Bachelor NICHOt^VS J. SALERNO, hailing from Westbur>*, L. I., reports that he teaches at the West Hempstead High School, health, ph^Vical education and coaclung thrown in. X'ick was one of the first to reply to our appeal, but regrets that there "ain't no mo" to report as to wives and cliildren. 
Tlic General Sales Manager of Firth Carpet, N^C, in the person of JOE SCHILLIXG, came through after much urging from conscience-stricken TOM HUGHES. Between the two of them thc^-40 have reported on the happenings in the selling' field of carpeting and containers. Tom is with Continental Can now and stajing closer to home in Ridgewood, X''. J. after traveling all over for Canco. Tom meets other XD's In his area from 
other classes. He has a promising athlete in his family and if size means anything Hkc his father Vile young lad is all set. JOE SCHILLING now 
lives in Darien, Conn., after living In N. J., Chi­cago and Cleveland. On a \'isit to the Coast he saw DON ALLEN and JOE McMAHON both with the F.B.I. McMalion has been stationed' all over the country also. L/VRRY DANBOM, also with the F.B.I., has been in touch with Joe over the years. Tlic Schilling family is made up of one boy (tor Dcnison University) and two daughters. 
At the commencement exercises of St. Philip Basilica High School in Chicago, toastmaster for the Breakfast was our CHARLES F. MILES. Charlie has been teaching there for twenty-two years and had a son in this graduating class. He is also an alumnus of St. Philip's. This is another 

ikosc of where the wife comes to the rescue of the Class Secretary-, Many thanks Mrs. Miles, and to some of the other wives who Iiavc to read this column to check up on their husband's activities, please drop an informative note. 
JOHNNY "ZEKE'* aVCKLEY completed a most successful term as president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley. Their annual dinner was well handled bv the *37 boys whom he drafted in HARRY KOEHLER, JERRY CL/\EYS and JOE DRUECKER. FATHER NED JOYCE was the principal speaker, so '37 had ever>*thing under con­trol for "Zckc." 

«
BOB McCLAIN, is now publications manager for "Furniture Retailer" of the Hairc Publishing Com­>any located in the Merchandise Mart in Chicago. 
^ post card from \-acationcr JERRY CL^VEYS showed that he spent the summer tn northern Mich­igan recovering from the strain of the candy manu­facturing business. 
The following part of the column is one of the tough aspects of the job. Please remember in your prayers: LUKE TIERNAN, ALEX SLOAN and JUSTIN KELLY who have passed away since our L-utt publication. Tlie fellows who attended the 20th reunion well remember the fine time that Alex had, and he was planning bigger things for the 25lh. Tlie Chicago Club will miss Lulce's 5cr\'iccs and the old class politicians have lost an old adx'isor. 

One of our contacts in New Jersey reports that —DAN FINN now resides at Scotch Plains and Is ^v^c c President of the Baker Castor Oil Co. I hope 
Dan appreciates all the business you fathers arc tossing his way — I know the kids don't. 
Remember — you make the news and you supply tlic news. From the Alumni Office: 
J. M. POWERS has been granted a Canadbn patent for a method of extracting petroleum prod­ucts. A section head for Humble Oil in Baytown, Tex., he is married and has two sons and a daughter. 

1 93 8 ^urnie Bauer 1139 Western Avenue ^ South Bend 25, Ind. 
My first report this time is a sad and nostalgic one. A clo«c friend to many in our class. JOHN 
P. MAHONEY, died in August. Mr. Mahoncy, who was vice president and general manager of Bendix during our college days, opened his home and tabic to many *38-ers. Sunday dinner at Mahoncy's will never be forgotten by a large num­ber of our class. Two of Mr. Mahonev's daughters arc now Mrs. TOM Iu\Vi\NAUGH and Mrs. TOM WUKOVITS. Attending the funeral in De­troit were CHARLEY C.\LL/\Hx\N, SCOTT RE/\RDON (who flew in from Sioux Falls) and 
J. J. GORMfVN from our class.  On the happier side were letters from Dr. 

J
, 
DANIEL EDWARD BOYLE, WALT MONACEL­LL a\R L DOOZ/\N, TOM HARDART and RUSS LONGDON. D.\N*N*Y BOYLE is a psychiatrist at 1002 Hamilton Avenue, Trenton 9. N. J. after some very busy years since leaving N.D. with a bride on his arm and Fr. Wenninger's challenge that he'd never finish medicine ringing in his cars. Fr, Wenninger was almost correct when TB hit Danny in his senior year in medicine but the pluck of the Irish pulled Danny through. Danny^s done well in another field — but one familiar to several other of his classmates — having acquired live sons and three girls ranging in ages from five to 14 years. Says Danny, *'God has been good in keeping with (what I recently learned to be ruly our family motto) **Dominus Provedebit.'* 

• Hearing from WALT MONACELLI \vas like hearing from Father Sorin, he was there so long. Walt stayed on three years more at N.D. to get his doctorate in Chemistry', then finally went to work with a number of companies to get a wide 
background to scr\c htm in his goal of becoming a patent attorney. Walt worked at Atlantic Re­fining, Sinclair Oil (better known hereabouts as a subsidiary of CHUCK SWEENEY enterprises), and SherAvin-Williams while attending DePaul law school, from which he graduated in 1M5; After passing the bar in Illinois and Ohio, he arrived in Pittsburgh (mighty thirsty, I'd think) where he spent ten years with the Koppcis Company, the last seven as manager of the patent department. TOM GILLESPIE, class of '39, was His assistant. Two years ago Walt set up his own private practice of patent law in Cleveland and since then has had some contact wnth classmates GEORGE SCHLAU­DECKER, President of the Maumeh Chemical Co. in Toledo, and GEORGE LAURE, President of W-L Molding Company in Kalamazoo. Walt mar­ried a Georgia peach in Atlanta in M5 and has two girls, 10 and 8, to prove it. Walt visUs NJD. often and first introduced Dr. Frank D'AIcIio, who invented the water softening compound I am so busy peddling between columns and is now head of N.D.'s chemistry department, to FATHER HESBURGH. Walt attends the same parish, St. Dominies in Shaker Heights, as "HOOK" KER­WIN and runs into DAVE CONNOR, TO^f MUL­LIGAN and JACK MAHONEY, the /Vshtabula bachelor, now and then. 
C.ARL DOOZfXN wrote me from his law office at 827 N. itichigan Ave.. Saginaw, Mich., and then turned up at the CF^^ convention at Notre Dame to verify that his eight children tied my record, only to be disappointed by the announce­ment of our ninth. Carl said he stopped in to sec JOHN CAIN who is Prosecutor in Chtyboygan, Michigan but didn't state whether it was volun­tar>' or not. 
TOM H.\RDART writes from 53 Norihway, Bronx\-ille, N. Y., that tho he waited until two years ago to get married, he is most happy in his decision and now has a vi\'acious 14-month-oId daughter, Madeline, to greet him along with his wife, Rosemar\- (Dunne), when he comes home from his day's work. He is Treasurer of Ham and Hardart Company, with whom he has been connected since leaving N.D, except when Uncle Sam put him afloat the cruber Sa\-annah in the Mediterranean in 1943 and the battleship Wisconsin in the Pacific in 1B44 and '45. Tom graduated from Columbia Law school in 1948 but sticks to his accounting. Tom and Rosemary* visit with Angela and TOM GR/WES and their two chil­dren, John, seven, and Barbara, nine, frequently over Greenwich way. Tom Graves is a partner with Haskin and Sells specializing in'tax work. 
RUSS LONGON's letter came on Chrysler In­ternational, S.A. Gcnex-a, Switzerland, stationery, where Russ was (he was Ica\-ing next morning for Argentina) in his new job as Manager of Invest­ments for Chrysler Corporation. After 20 years w'orking state-side as bank teller, insurance sales­man and chief cost accountant for Wright Aero­nautical Corp. in Cincinnati; contracting office in the Navy at Philadclpliia (with PAUL NOWAK); chief accountant for Crosley >fotors in Cincinnati; plant controller for Kaiser Motors at Bellairc, 
Jack Anton, *38, here shown in his Euro­pean seminarian garb, has returned to Beda College, Rome, after a summer In the States which included a brief visit to Alma Mater. 

Ohio, and budget director tor Willys Motors in Toledo, Russ got his new job with Chrysler in July 1958, right after reunion^ and has been hopping around the world ever since. Russ has been to Paris where he worked on the acquisition of the small French car Simca for Chrysler; to Rotterdam and Havana (before Castro), setting up asscmMr plants; to Mexico City, where he made a pil­grimage to Our Lady of Guadalupe shrine, and four times to Buenos Aires where he met former President Frondizi and his cabinet. Last May Chrysler moved Russ*s family from Dearborn, Mich­igan to Geneva where his new home address is No. 9 Chemin de Coudrec, Cologny, Geneval, Switzerland and an open door awaits all '38-er3. Congratulations, Russ! 
Received a phone call from BOB MAZANEC, who drove his four boys (ages II, 10, 8 and 7) over from Cleveland to tour N.D. one Monday in August and to visit with DON HICKEY. Bob is Assistant Manager and Secretary of the First Fed­eral Bank in Cleveland when not conducting famOy tours or engaging in Catholic Action activities. Except for a brief stint at public accounting after the war. Bob has al\>-ays been in banking. Says he sees PETE SHEEHAN, who is in the County Recorder's office (recording track performances???) quite often. Bob is the one who stuck me with the nickname "Sivede" the first meal we had at 
N.D. by yelling "Hey, you Swcdt from Minnesota, pass the milk." Guess IM thought each of us had a pitclier for ourselves — thereby not only giving me a nickname but also sainng me 20-30 pounds. 
CHARLEY CALLAH.\N turned over a note to me sent by JOE C/\LLx\HAN, Lt. Colonel in the .•\rmy, in the summertime, announcing his resigna­tion as football coach and director of athletics at St. Mary*s High School. Greenwich, Conn., and acceptance of post of line coach and teacher at South High, Valley Stream, Long Island. 
Har\-ard University communicated with me also n'a a release that H. ED^^^ARD WRAPP, an in­dustrial engineer, is now Professor of Business Ad­ministration in their Graduate School. £d is a Paragould, Arkansas, lad who made good after recei\-ing his B.S.C. from N.D. in '38 and M.B.A. (1948) and D.C.S. (1952) from Har^-ard. Ed taught at Harvard and Notre Dame and was director of the Executive Program at the University of Chicago until going to Har\*ard in 1955. He Avorked for DuPont from 1940 to 1947 plus doing a stint in banking and public accounting. Ed and his wife in WcHesley, Mass., with their four children. 
Got a fine brochure showing RAY MEYER, the toast of the basketball coaching world and DePauI, toasting marshmallows with some of his bo>3 at his boy's camp at Three Lakes, ^Visconsin, ^vhich Rav conducts each summer, with help in recent years of CHARLEY BOROWSKI's boys. Blurb mentions that Ray will teach them everything from fishing and boating to baseball — but men­tions nothing about basketball'. Is this another of Bill Vccck's surprises? 
Over the name of our ever working class presi­dent JOHN O'CONNOR as an Alumni Board mem­ber comes the recommendation that in the com­ing year Notre Dame men make an effort to (1) actively participate in local parish affairs, and 
(2) actively participate in local political affairs. Your secretary seconds the motion and asks that you report anything any of you may do along those two lines. I'd like to mention it in this column, not so much to give you the pat on the back you deser\'c but to serve as a suggestion of what others of us might do. If you don't want your name mentioned, say so and I'll strain my­self to withhold it. But do something, and do report it. 
Biggest splash of the summer in the class's social calendar probablv took place in August at the side-by-side LOUIS ANDERSON and jLM LAHEY cottages (sic — mansions, to be sure) on Diamond lake. Splash was earned by Jim Lahey's teaching me how to water ski but forgetting to brief me on how to turn in the middle of the lake. Re­sulting plunge swept a tidal wave in over the re­maining 16 38-crs and their \%-ives enjoying a bar­becue on Louis' patio. Fortunately JOE KU­HARICH and JOHNMURPHY w-crc out in another of Jim's boats arguing over which was the star­board and which was the reserve board so none of this fall's football plans ^vcre ^^ashed au'ay. BILL GIBBONS, who, by the way, chairmanned the local 
N.D. Club's family summer picnic to a heap big success (heaps of bottles, heaps of ice cream and heaps of kids mixed thoroughly) and wife ^lar­garet consoled my xvife that I wouldn't drown. So did DON HICKEY ("Anything hollow won't sink, Helene."), and DON FISCHER: ("Drift-
Notre Dame Alumnusj December, 2959 49 
wood always floats, Helcnc"). CHARLEY G-VL­LAHA X was more concerned: "Who will >mte this up in the next column if Swede drowns?" AS was CHARLEY BOROWSKI: "I hate funerals in summer, you got to wear a coat." JIM BEAUD\\*.\Y, DO N SMIT H and CLAYTON JODOX were also concerned: "Who will fix our water softener if Swede demises?" CELLY BALL •was worried too: "I've got 12 kids of my own; don't see how I could take in Swede's nine." But Col. J.ACK SCOTT, South Bend's former Re­publican mayor, was unperturbed: "Swede votes Democratic anvhow!" Meanwhile back at the i;rill, JOHN MONAH.\N and FR.\NK (XYLOPHONE) SCHAEFER were outmaneuvering JACK MOUL­DER, who has been having a Lark since joining Studebakcr-Packard as field representative, and BOB DuBOIS, xvho if he gets any bigger won't be able to join anyone. Tlie South Bend '38 club tells all that Jim and Louie's wives, Ruby Lahey and Rubv Anderson are real jewels as hostesses. 
Just a "few address changes: ED CZLAPINSKY moved from Pittsburgh to Old Route No. 8, Bakerstoivn, Pa. TOM ELDER to 468 Pine Ave., Wa>-nesboro, Va. JACK O'DONNELL also shifted over just a street to 5107 Ellsworth Ave., Pitts­burgh 32, Pa., and F.VTHER JOE lUCE is now at St. Roman's, 4238 So. 20tli St., Milwaukee 15, Wis. 
Incidentally, speaking of participating in politics, my wife Helenc and I spent the afternoon and evening uith Senator Eugene McCarthy of Min­nesota when he came to speak at the CFM con­vention and the Senator told us tliat TOM BOHEN and wife Carmcia ^^'orked hard for him in the last compaign in St. Paul. From the Alumni Office: 
It's now ''General Scott.'* Congratulations to former Ma\*or and Colonel JACK SCOTT, now vice president of Elkliart's Truth Publishing Com­pany, who has been placed on the retired list of the U.S. Marine Corps Reser\'c \rith the rank of brigadier general. Jack u-as one of the last under the law granting promotion for heroism, just re­pealed. He has eleven decorations, including tlie Silver Star, Bronze Star and Purple Heart, 
HAR\'XY FOSTER w ^ recently honored by boss J. Edgar Hoover and others on the occasion of his 20th anniversar\- with the FBI. You'll sec him in this issue. 
Also in this issue you'U see JACK ANTON, now a seminarian at Beda College, Via Nicola de Tolentino 67, Rome, Italy. Jack was home for the summer and \-isited the campus briefly in Sep­tember. 
Finally, sympathy to the famllv of GERALD MASTR.ANGELO, who died August 25. 
1 939 J^^^ ^- Motschall Singer-Afotschall Corp. 10090 West Chicago Detroit 4, Michigan 
Hanng seen our team beat North Carolina on TV recently, I am predicting that they will have an excellent season and will probably ^vin a few-games. I will be writing to some of you during the next few weeks, asking you to act as vice prtsidents in a ^ven area so tliat you will be able to filter information into me as well as soliciting funds for our 25th Reunion. I would certainly appreciate anyone who has not sent in their questionnaires (and I have now sent out three of these) to please do so in the near future, because wc arc very much interested in receiving information (»ncem­ing your activities since leawng scliool. Anyone who is interested in receiving more of the Prayer Cards for the Beatification of Pope Pius XII, please send me a self-addressed envelope and I will take care of your requests immediately. Hope to see some of you down at school d uring the football season. 
The following arc the new addresses of *39ers: LOUIS JOSEPH DE.MER, 2633 N. Norris Ave., Tucson, Ariz.; ROBERT ANDREW DEREN­GOSKI, 1134 Old Hickory Lane, East Lansing, Mich.; DONALD KEARNS DUFFEY, 2602 Dun­can Road, \Vilmington 8, Delaware; DAVID ^VAL­TER HARRIS, I0I43 Minnick, Oaklaivn, 111.; GEORGE E. GREEN. JR., 119 Glcnrock Drive, Claymont, Delaware; LANDO EDWARD HOW­ARD, R.R. No. 2, Murphysboro, 111.; EDWIN JOHN HUGHES, JR., 2021 Center Street, North­bnwk. III.; JOHN PETER LYNAUGH, 719 W, Jefferson, Springfield, III.; THOMAS AUGUSTINE AfAHER, P.O. Box 1939, Cincinnati 1, Ohio; EUGENE FREDERICK MILBOURN, 3869 So. Glencoe, Denver 22, Colo.; CARL JOSEPH NA­GEL, 61 Rankin Road, BuflFalo 26, N. Y.; LAWRENCE JOSEPH PETROSHIUS, 506 10th 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus^ December^ 1959 
J. FRED SIMON, JR., '39 Nearly Halted, a Heart Deep in Texas 

The recent recovery of Fred Simon from a heart attack was a rch'cf to citizens of Waco, Texas whom he has ser\'cd on the City Council and other bodies "with clarity of thought and substantial wisdom," ac­cording to a non-Notre Dame witness, as "a leader, a cultured gentleman .. . an edification to all of us." 
.A. three-year monogrammcr in tennis and team captain in his senior year, Fred en­tered the Army at the outbreak of World War II and ser\'ed four years before his discharge as an infantry captain. In 1946 he purchased the Waco Broom and Mop Factor)', which he still operates; helped reorganize the Waco Civic Theater, was elected president; and joined the Rotary Club, with which he recently ser\'cd on the board of directors. Since 1950 he has been a member of the Texas Manufacturers Association, filled \'arious offices which led to his being awarded a lifetime membership in 1957. 
Municipal scr\'ice began for Fred in 1953 with membership on Waco's Planning and Zoning Commission and continued from 1955 to the present with his election to the City Coimcil, from which he has filled in as mayor pro tcm at intervals in the past two years. It hasn't interfered with parish activity as an usher and frequent volunteer as altar boy, sacramental spon­sor, etc. 
Fred is married to the former Elizabeth Briscoe and has an enxnable progeny: Diane, 13; Susan, 11; Fred III, 9;' Mark, 7; Michael, 5; Ralph, 2, and possibly a seventh child whose name is not ai-ailablc at press time. 
Street, \\'aukegan. III.; THOMAS EUGENE ROCHE, 2560 Westmont Blvd., Columbus 21, Ohio; ROBERT FRANCIS SCHIRF, 1288 North 63rd Court, MiKvaukce 13, Wis.; ROBERT THEODORE RENDLAN, General Delivery, Tampa, Florida; FRANKLIN VIRGIL SHAW, 1726 No. Nevada, Wichita 12, Kansas, and EARL HUGO WINTER­
ROWT), 216 E. 69lh Street, New York, N. Y. . 
We were indeed ver>* sorry to learn of the deat.'jQ in July of this year of BEN F. GALLAGHER, father of JOHN C. GALLAGHER, our classmaie. Also the death of the father of J. GREGORY RICE, who died in August. 
Here are some items of news picked out from 

the replies I've received to my third questionnaire 
— to those of you who haven't yet returned yours, doii*t forget that *ve are always pleased to hear from you, so let us have your latest news soon. 
TOM REARDON writes to us from Kansas City, Mo. where he is rice president of Stanton Insurance Agency, Inc. and lives with his wife and their large family of five hays and five girls — Susan, 19, who is in the Travel business; Tom, Jr., 17, who is entering the Diocesan Seminary tht ^ fall; Terry. IG; Sharon, 14; Dennis, 10; Cathlccn" 8; Danny, 5; Peggy, 3; Patrick, 2, and Mar>* Christine, 8 months. Tom sa>*s he's sorry he couldn't make it to the reunion, maybe next time. Meanwhile he*d be pleased to hear from DICK BROWN, H.\RRY KAISER and DICK ANTON. 
JOE ZUENDEL, who is a ChcxToIet and Olds­mobile dealer, lives in Dyersrillc, Ohio with his wife Lorctta and their four children. Robert, 16; Suzanne, 13; Joseph, 6. and Michael, 4. 
JOHN J. CAREY dropped me a line to say how much he enjoyed the reunion. He lives in Indianapolis, Ind., w^th his wife Mar>' Patricia and thiir boxer "Tootsie," and ov\-ns an insurance agency*. John would like to hear from JOE AL-;.­LEN, DUKE DuCHARME, CHESTER SADOH^S SKI and BUTCH KAM.M. 
FRANK GARTLf\ND is a foundry- executive in Marion, Ind., and has six children — Mike, 18, who is enrolled at N.D. this fall; Francis III, 17; Mary, 15; Pat, 13; Tom, 7, and Joe, 5. Frank would like to hear from GEORGE MILFORD as well as all those who were at the reunion. 
AL NIGRO is a practicing surgeon at Kansas City ^fedical Center. He and his wife Ivcl have four diildrcn: Jay, 16; Lee, 14; Lorie, 10, and Gail, 6. 
MAX BURNELL sends us plenty of news from E\-anston, III. where he is still coaching and teach­ing at St. George's High School and is vcrj' proud of their football team's record of winning 43 gamcs^. in a row. Tliis streak started in 1950 and ha ^ only just been broken this year. ^lax is also very proud of his family's successes. He has one son Max, 19, and a daughter Maria, 17. He tells us that his wife Kaye is still as beautiful as ever and doing a good job caring for the Bumell brood. TTieir son Max, Jr. is now a sophomore at Notre Dame and is hoping to get some playing time in on the football team. He was an All-State quarter­back on his father's team at St. George High School in 1958, is 6'4" and tvcighs 215 pounds. Their daughter ^^a^la is in the modelling busi­ness, has recently won the "Miss Ex-anston" and "Miss 1959 Auto Show Queen" beauty contests. During the last summer Max has been running a Day Camp for boys aged 5-ll years. Here the,_ boys receive instruction in all the rudiments o^ i sport as well as having \-isits to zoos, aquariums, museums of rciencc and industry, etc., and go swimming, horseback riding and fishing. He in­vites anyone of the 39crs in the Chicago area to get in touch ^vith him if they would be interested in something like this for their own children next summer. Max would be pleased to have news from EARL BROWN, PAUL MORRISON, JI.M Mc-GOLDRICK, HAROLD GOTTSACKER and JOE THEISEN. 
ROBERT M. ORTALE and his irife Isabellc live in Kingston, N. Y., where Robert is an attorney at law. He ^vas very happy to see so many of his classmates at the reunion and u-as sorry he hadrv to leave early and miss the rest of the week end w He tells us he's keeping busy with his law practice, but alwa\-s finds time to sec a couple of N.D. games each year — hope that this time it could be the Na\*y and Pittsburgh games. 
From Fort Worth, Texas, we hear from PHIL NORTH who is an executive with the Star-Tele­gram newspaper there. The Norths have four chil­dren: Kcrin, 13; Kerry, 7; Mairin, 6, and Dcirdre, 
2. Glad you made it for the reunion, Phil. CHARLES J. THEISEN lives in Benton Harbor, Micliigan w-ith his uifc and their children, William, 19; Cliarienc, 17; John, 12; Patricia, 9, and Timothy, 8. For 14 years Charles taught and coached high scliool in Salem, N. J., and in 1953 returned to Michigan where he is doing invcntor^kt'^ control at the Tlieiscn-CIemens Co. which market^' petroleum products. Charles would like to hear from STEVE ROGENSKI and HUGH BURNS. 
Will save more information for the next ALUMNUS, but I ask you please to send In tlie 
questionnaires that I have sent out to you, because with them wc will have a most interesting class ^ew s column, without them we will have none. 
From the Alumni Office; 
Two members of the Class of '39, J. R. "PAT" GORAfAN and PAUL TULLY, arc directors of the new Mutual Building and Loan Assn. in Ken­sington, Aid., which opened in September. They offer 4V^ per cent interest on savings and would welcome your investment. 
The recently deceased fatlicr ot JOHN GAL­L/\GHER w*as the son of an N.D. man of the 1860's. 
The saddest news of this issue is the death of BERNARD J. SULHVAN*s I2-ycar.old son, Daniel Joseph, who failed lo recover from a heart opera­tion performed at the Children's Hospital in St. 
SLouis. 
20 YEAR REUNION Class of '40 JUNE 10-11-12 

104 0 Jiuiics G. Brown 623 Madison Ave New York 22, N. Y. 
t
Our past few columns have been a Ultle weak ccausc of the lack of news from our classmates. Accordingly, wc have had to pursue a little more aggressive tactics for getting some news. 
If you receive a questionnaire in the mail, please give us all the information and news that you have. 
Received a note from JIM DOYLE, who is an Accountant of Pan-American Ain^-ays and has been working in Cape Canaveral for the past five years. Jim gets over to ND reunions at Fort Lauderdale. He recently met AL KESSING and JIM Mc-GOLDRICK. Jim is married, has a little girl Susie. 
Have a well filled out questionnaire from ED HUFF, who is living in Milwaukee. He is mar­ried, has a little girl and is working as a parole 
^gcn t for the state of Wisconsin. Ed has kind of 
^ S varied existence since he left school and had his medical studies interrupted by a serious illness. However, he is in good shape now and txpects to see cvcr>-body at the reunion next year. 
Have a note from JOHN ELSE. He lives in Ro>'al Oak, Michigan. John has been a designing engineer for the ChevTolet Corporation and by his own admission has been kept quite busy with family life. John has eight cluldrcn ranging from H years lo six months. TIus is certainly a full-time operation. John manages to get down to school for a ball game each fall and would like to hear from JACK WILSON and ED IL\RT. It should be easy to get Ed Hart to write something since Brooklyn is so close to being back in the 
caguc again. 

• Following Else's communique, I have a short note from wild BILL KENNEDY, he of the Ken­nedy Valve Co. Seems as though Else got a blurb in the Alumnus lor a patent on some kind of a plug. Now Kennedy wants equal time and sends me a ver>* detailed patent drawing of his plug. Not being an engineer, it all looks like pictures my kids draw. However, we arc glad to hear from Bill, xmdcr anv circumstances. He recentlv saw JI.M DONAHUE and BILL FAY in Chicago. Needless to say, Donahue collected his vote right on ihc spot. Speaking of Jim Donahue, we hope you Iiavc noted the class elections during the past six months, that is Sandmaier, Fleming, Thesing, 
^feuler , and Donahue as Class President. 
Your officers and various committees are attempt­ing to get organized for next year's reunion. ^\'c arc all looking ahead to a gala affair and arc counting on you to be there. Also, note that the class voted in favor of an additional donation for providing additional facilities and refreshments for our class. 
Have a reply from BOB BLAKE, wlio is now living in Canton, Ohio. Nowhere is a fellow who has written books, scaled mountain tops, and had more brushes with death than your local television hero. Even his business — land development, sounds intriguing — yet all the information on the questionnaire is his name and the names of his five children. Wc will not tolerate sucli modesty 
^knong our classmates. I can't fill up this column 
^•it h names alone. Accordingly, I am sending this questionnaire back. We have the same problem with handsome BILL BURNS who is now president of a pharmaceutical company in Philadelphia, Pa. 
We will temporarily excuse this boy because with 
nine cliildrcn, !\c might be a little pressed lor 
time. 
Have a note here from TAD HARVEY who is 
now living in Atlanta. Tad is a General Manager 
for the Simmons Company and has been with them 
for the past nine years. Tad has been in St. 
Louis, Pittsburgh, Dallas in his travels with the 
company. He is married to a girl from St. Mary's 

and they have two daughters. 
JIM SlOORE fills out his form in good, good 

style. Jim is with Detroit Ball Bearing Co., is 
married and has three children. After four years 
of service, he went back to DBB and has been 
there ever since. ^Vould like to hear from anyone 
in the class and lives at Willow Lane, Birming­
ham, Michigan. 
JACK DE .MOSS cooperates . . . with an ad­mitted prod from his wife. Good girl! Jack has been with GE in Pittsfield for the past year after a stay in Lynn, Mass., for the same company. He now owns and lives on a 184-acre farm. He has invited all class members who are in the vicinity to stop in and help cut the lawn. Jack is mar­ried and has three children. He would appreciate hearing from BILL 0*H:\RE and BEN S.\ELI. Had a note from BILL COLEMAN this summer. He is now in the process of revitalizing the Twin Coach corporation and is doing a fine job . . . see S&P sheet for sharp uptrend in earnings. The Colemans recently had their cightli child. 
Missing persons Dcpt.: Questionnaires to WS RYAN, late of Parkwav Village and Los .-Vngeles; DICK A.MES, and H.\NK COLLINS have been returned as unknown. Do not forget the reunion in '60. Think about it! Plan for it! Save your money to get there! From the Alumni Office: 
A letter to JLM BROWN from JIM DONOG­HUE gives details of the Class election and some indication of reunion acti\nty. Excerpts: '*The of­ficers elected were Vice Presidents PHIL S,\ND­MEIER, WALTER FLEMING, JOSEPH THES­ING and JAMES MET2LER. You were reinstated as Secretary and DICK BURKE as Treasurer. On the special ballot wc had a vote of 173 to 41 to make an additional assessment at the Reunion if ncccssar>'. . . . Wc stand a good chance of getting a residence hall to ourselves if wc can produce 200 at the Reunion. This should be easy especially since we have about 200 In New York and New-Jersey alone. It appears that the program for the Reunion will. be cocktails, class dinner and social hour on Friday evening; on Saturday there will be the Memorial Mass, pictures, golf tournament, tours and conferences at the individual colleges. All of this will be followed by the Alumni Banquet in the evening and we hope to have a cocktail party. We will have the Alumni Mass in Sacred Heart Churcli on Sunday." 
Some repetition will be involved, but we'll re-

Edward H, Schrocter, '40, of Cleveland Heights, O., now directs purchasing for the Thompson Products Light Metals division of Thompson Ramo Wooldridge Inc. Ed has been with the company since graduatton in personnel management and sales, except for a Avartimc stint as a Lt. Cmdr. in the airborne Navy. Ed is married and has a daughter. 
peat the Donoghue new3 notes: "During the-lengthy correspondence that was necessary in -de­veloping the vote on the Class officers, I learned quite a bit about the fellows. Recent changes in­clude JOE THESING with the Chrysler Corpora­tion in Kansas City; AL KESSING wih South­ern Bell Telephone In Jacksonville, Fla.; JIM HUFNAGEL has acquired a prefabricated house manufacturing business in Clarion, Pa.; JOHN KELLEHER is very highlv regarded as a plastic surgeon in Toledo; PHIL CANALE fs district at­torney general of the 15th Judidal Circuit Court in Memphis, Tenn.; AL FUNK is well established in his own business in La Crosse, Wis. 
"I cannot let this opportunity pass w-ithout di­recting your attention to the August 27 issue of Iron Age, which pays a very elaborate compliment to Bill Coleman who was xvith us through 1939. Bill is president of the Twin Coach Co.""of Buf­falo, X. Y., which position he assumed in 1957 when the company was in serious financial straits. With his usual perseverance Bill has put the com­pany back on iu feet and changed the general busi­ness picture so that now the company has two-major operations — an aircraft missile divisioa and a vehicle service parts division. The stock has done pretty well also in going from a low of 3 in 1957 to a high of 18 this year. 
"JIM MET2LER has his own insarance busi­ness in Kansas City; DICK BURKE was running in circles with the financial report of the University when I saw him last week; RED AL\RT1N is a partner in a well-known New York law firm; J.ACK KELLY, our football captain, has his own investi­gating business in Newark. I also heard from REV. DICK FALLON, who is on the faculty of the Bishop Dubois High School in N. Y.** 
EDWARD H. SCHROETER of 1160 Haselton Rd.,^ Cleveland Heights, has been appointed pur­chasing agent for the Tliompson Products Light Metals Division of Thompson Ramo Wooldridge Inc. Ed has been a sales representative for the Light Metals Di%-ision since 1954. He joined the company as a personnel super\"isor right after graduation, ser\-cd four years in Na\-y aWation ordi­nance, base administration and personnel before dis­charge as a Lt. Comdr. to return as personnel manager for the company. .-\ Cleveland native, Ed is married and has a daughter. 
JIM BROWN had many more items before this number went to press but will save them for the next issue. 
1941 J^"^cs F. Spellman 
•'^" 7 East 42nd St. New York 17, N. Y. 
From the .-Uumni Office: 
The *41 nc\V5 is ncccssarilv short and sad this issue. Secretary JIM SPELL.M.\N had a shocking message in late September: 
"My wife,. Margaret Eileen, died Labor Day and was buried on the tenth. 
"As you can imagine, it has been a rather bad month. Her death was completely unexpected, and X am still wandering about in a daze. My boy, age 15, is in his second year of high school, and I am trving to keep our home running as his mother would have done. Please say a prayer for me that I might succeed." 
Jim, we're sure that you and your son have the deep s%-mpathy and the fen-ent prayers of the entire Class of *4I. 
TIL\DDEUS DONALD GYSSIDAY of Glen Ell%-n, 111., has joined the staff of the Argonne National Laboratory, Lemont, III., as a plant engineer for the .-XEC. After two years as a Lieut, (j.g.). Tad worked as a foreman and engi­neer for Apex Tool & Afachine, U. S. Gypsum and the Crane Co. in Chicago. 
DR. RICRARD E. B.ALL of Okemos, Mich., economist and financial consultant, assumed du­ties Sept. I as professor and chairman of finance at the University of Cincinnati College of Business Administration. Possessor of both bachelor's and ­doctor's ('55) degrees from N.D., Dick previously taught here and at Michigan State. He worked in several management training programs and served as a consultant to many banks and businesses. .Author of a book on the government corporation and a member of several professional associations, he's married and the father of four children. 
A new, faster and less expensive test for preg­nancy was announced by DR. WALTER H. HAR­TUNG, JR., pathologist at St. Charics Hospital, Toledo, O., at the annual staff meeting in No­vember. The electrical test can be done in less than a minute versus hours to days in tests cm-ploying animals, and it may be valuable in de­tecting early complications during pregnancy as 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 2959. 51 
well as an adjunct to diagnosis and treatment of disease. The disco\"cr>', financed by the hospital's research foundation, is described in a paper in the American Journal of Obstetrics and G>Tiecolog>-. 
194 7 William M. Hickcy 
• '^ ^ 3333 West 47th Place Chicago 32, Illinois 

Wc Iiave a letter from TOM BAXIGAX which reads as follows: 
*'My family and I have recently returned to sunny California following one year of detadied service at our company (Arthur D. Little, Inc.) headquarters at Cambridge, Mass. After 10 years in the west wc enjoyed comparing scencr>' ^vith New England and are moved to admit tlierc is much floral beauty in the cast (no comments of­fered on tlic weather). While in Boston I re­sumed acquaintance with JIM RETTER ('44), now district sales manager for Union Carbide Chemicals Co. On our return I have resumed ac­tivities as an industrial research consultant in our San Francisco office. Our home is in Walnut Creek where I occasionally sec a few other fellow alumni including TOM BOND ('38), manager of the Hcndrict Piano Co., and JOHN' FORDE (Law School '44), who has Iiis offices locally. 
**.A.nother item of interest concerns the arrival of our No. 2 son, Thomas Paul, born on July 8, 1959." 
Also condolences to TOM WALKER whose fatlier passed away September 13. 
Wc have a nice letter from BUD COXCAX­NOX, vvho sa>*s that lie is now an Executive Sales Representative with American District Telegraph Company, 155 Sixth Avenue, X'cw York 13, X'. Y. He lives with his wife and three cliildren in Brcez>' Point, X^ew York. He says: "I see my old stable mate GUS HARDART now and then. Gus was just made vice president of Harn & Hardart. He and Xanc>' have a boy about a year old and bought a new house in Westchester. 
"When I visit Cincinnati, I alwax's manage to see Big WALLV HEEKIX. Walt "still" has two bo\'5 at the last count and is an investment broker. If I had money and followed his advice, I would be a ver>' wealthy man today. 
"L.\RRY HICKEY of Ready Muc Concrete fame has a summer house near me. He and Gene have three girls and a boy. He promised, as did GUS HARD.ART, to make the 20ih reunion. 
"Speaking of the reunion, I had a wonderful time seeing all the bo>-s. I only hope that TO^[ CARROLL brings money and a tooth brush for the next gathering. 
"For general information, I sec CHIEF GERfVGHTY, who is a high scliool teacher on Long Island. JOHN KIRBY sells space for U. S. Xews and AVorld Report and JOE BARICK who is manager of tlie construction department of I.B.M. 
"I saw TO.M WALKER today. As you know, Tom's dad died. Tom, Sr. was a wonderful rep­resentative of X'.D. He will be missed by his old friends. Dolly Walker looks wonderful. X'o doubt, living down in Florida lias agreed with tlic Walker family. If you bo\-s ^^•ant to feci old, sec Tom's daughter, IloUcy, a ver>' pretty girl of 15 summers. 
**.-\t Mr. \Valkcrs wake, I also saw Ed Mc­Laughlin. He looks fine and works in tlic Insurance business." 
Wc hear from PAUL LILLIS, who is president of the Xotre Dame Club at Cleveland, the fol­lowing: 
"One day, I played with S.A\[ X'lELD, who is a former Xotre Dame Golf Captain and now is a member of the Ladies' Home Journal sales staff. Sam is playing excellent golf this year. 
**LEO BURBY and I are working closely on the affairs of the X'otre Dame Club of Clcx'eland. Leo is our Vice President. The position of VP comes easily to Leo because he is also a Vice Presi­dent at W. S. Tyler Company, where he vvorks. 
- AVith five children and his other duties, Leo can still be counted on to lend a helping Iiand where iCotre Dame is concerned. 
"From all reports, GEORGE BL.\TT has found an excellent position to his liking. He is with 'Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance. He is also practicing law. 
''Recently, at a club picnic, it was good to see JOE PROKOP. I've been told that he should be referred to as the Squire of Kirtland from the size of his estate! There must be more gold in those law books than the gold lettering on the backs. 
**At the same picnic, we were delighted to see BILL KEYES. Bill was in Cleveland on vacation. About a year ago, he moved to X'ashWIle, Tennes­see, when Murray, Ohio relocated their plant. 
52 Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 
Na\*al Air Reserve Attack Squadron 673, shanirock-helmeted and nicknamed the "Flying Irish," left Georgia to tackle Neiv Orleans ^nth a "T ' formation of Skyraidcrs in September for their annual two-neek training "game," quartcrbacked by their skipper, Cdr. John 
Gavan, '40, who says, "Any resemblance to Dame is purely 
"We sec VIC GULYASSY from time to time. He is Congressman Charles Vanick's right-hand man. Tlie Democratic Part>- receives a lot of his time, so that, with five children and his law prac­tice. Xlc is always on the go. 
"'Sly travels take me to Cincinnati frequently, and I see WALT HEEKIX there from time to time. It's alu'ays good to sec him. If you w*ant information on the stock market, Walt is the man to see. 
**One day while in Cincinnati, my eyes were clicckcd by DOC GLxVSER, who has earned an outstanding reputation as an oculist. (An amusing aside to this is that I took a plane back to Cleve­land after the exmainaiion and found his *bill' waiting for me at Iiome!) 
"Bill, wc have a very active Xotre Dame club here in Cleveland. Please extend an invitation to all of our classmates to call when they are in Cleveland. They are most welcome to attend Club functions." From the Alumni Office: 
JOHX J. RIDLEY, who spent his freshman year with the '42 Class, died of a heart attack July 23 in a hospital in X'orristown, Pa. Leaving school for scr\icc. Jack served as a dive-bomber pilot, flew 9G missions before separation in 1945 and for the last 10 years managed a fuel transport firm in Philadelphia. Sympathy to his widow Rosemary, hb children and his brother Wall, '31.­
DOXALD F. McGIXLEY was recently elected a 

U.S. Representative from Xebraska's Fourth Con­gressional District and may be the first Catliolic thus elected. Congratulations, Don. 
JOHX L. BAUER, JR., received the papal award Knight Commander of the Order of St. Gregory the Great at recent ceremonies in Paris. Polish Archbishop Gawlina officiated as a representative of the Vatican, and the ceremony was attended by U.S. diplomats, distinguished refugees and the Papal Xuncio. The honor was conferred for John's work in behalf of exiles and the Church behind the Iron Curtain, first with Catholic Relief (XCWC) and now with the Free Europe Committee. John and his wife Regina have three children, John HI, James and Kathcrine. 
1 943 ^^^ Wiggins 
5125 Briggs Ave, 
La Crcsccnta, Cal. 

BOB CORRIGAX was awarded a Ph.D. from AVestem Reser\'e University in June. His disserta­tion: "The Pedagogical and Cultural Ideas of Ortega y Gasset." Bob now Icacltes at John Car­roll University in CIe\'eland. He has sbc children: one girl and five sons. There are three births to report this trip: JACK BENNETT, chief radiolo­gist at San Francisco's St. Mary's Hospital sends word of the arrival of Philip bom August 27. Also from the Bay area of tlie Golden State the third daughter has been bom to Kay and JACK TAL­LETT. And from Washington, BILL MIDDEN­DORF attempting to crowd Mr. K out of the pic­
 the shamrock and Tighting Irish' of Notre  intentional." 
ture announces the arrival of .Anne who was born August 1. Hold on to your fedora. Dad, it is MiddendorPs ninth! 
BILL LILJESTROM has yo-yoed back to Dallas after a brief stay in Xew York City. Bill had left Big D to move to Olin Mathieson's Aluminum Din­sion as assistant manager in the sheet and plate sales department. Bill is now the Regional Sales Manager for the Southwestern region. Tliat is, cver\-tliing west of the ^fississippi. One of Bill's neighbors in the Exchange Bank Building is bas­kcteer CHARLES BUTLER. 
Tlic Los Angeles diocesan paper had a fine fea­ture article on LOU RY.MKUS just before th.i 
L.A. Rams kicked off the new season. Lou i& offensive line coach for the Rams. His sons, twin brothers Pat and Mike, will probably keep the Rymkus name in the football headlines this fall. They are enrolled at Xotre Dame High School, Sherman Oaks, Cal. operated by the Holy Cross Brothers. 
Please pray for the repose of the soul of BILL SHEJV who passed away on September 2 in Wichita, Kansas. Wc have had a Mass said for the repose of his soul; the Mass will be celebrated by Jesuit Father VIC CULLEX, Class of '43 who is now on missionar>* duty in the Philippines. Xlc will also celebrate the Mass that is offered annually for the deceased members of the Class and for the inten­tions of the living members of the Class. TIi^ Masses will be offered at Immaculate ConccptioiT Church, Impasugong, Bukidnon, Philippines. Why not drop Vic a note? I am certain lie would en­joy hearing from his classmates in the States. From the Alumni Office: 
In November the Chicago Daily Xews profiled .VX'THOX'Y G. GIROL/VMI, alderman-elect of the West Side's 28th ward. Unopposed in the recent elections, Tony "brings a combination of brains and brawn to the Chicago City Council," the X'cws said, referring to his academic and football prowess at X.D. (30 high school scholarships offered). Also appointed Democratic diairman of his district, Tony will continue his law practice and hopes to spe­cialize in urban renewal on the Council. He Ut married and has a daughter, Carol Lynne. 
Congratulations also to JOSEPH G. WALSH, who has joined Stauffer Chemical Company as di­rector of the Patent Dept. Joe has an alphabet of degrees, liaxing followed up his baclielor's with an 
M.S. ('47) and a Ph.D. in chemistry ('49) at Xotre Dame and crowning them with an LL.B. from Fordham and an LL.M. from X'.Y.U. Be­fore joining Stauifcr he %\'as an associate In a patent law firm. Joe is a member of many pro­fessional societies, both as a chemist and Iaw\-er. 
1 OAA George A. Bariscillo, Jr. 
• '^ ^ 515 Fifth Ave. Bradley Beach, N. J. ­
In view of the ALUMXUS publication schedule, this is the first opportunity we have had to report on the very successful 15th reunion of our Class 
on tlic campus last June. A moil siu:\'ey of the cunion registrants conducted by the Alumn! OfHce 

* hortly after the reunion brought an ovenvhelming vote of generally unanimous agreement that this was the best event yet. The answers to the ques­tionnaire were most helpful and \%'c thank all of those who took time to reply. For those who were unable to attend, here is a quick run-down of the week-end festivities: On Friday, June 12, familiar faces reappeared on familiar sites of ycster>*car as *44 men checked into our reunion headquarters in ^fornssey Hall and commenced the week-end festivities with a buffet • on the Morrisscy lawn, which included a full course piz/a party, followed by reminiscing, etc., long into the night. On Saturday morning our classmate. Father DONALD BAYDIK, who is no\v* ^ t St. /Vndrcw's Abbey in Cleveland, Ohio, cele­brated Mass for the deceased members of our class in the Morrissey chapel. Then followed the tra­ditional golf tournament, tours of the campus, further reminiscing, and many of the familiar, old-fashioned *'bull sessions." A box lunch was ser\"ed on the Morrissey Hall lawn at 12:30, followed by the class picture on the libnuy* steps, and a mid-afternoon cocktail party prior to the annual ban­quet, which this year was scr\'ed in the new dining hall on the north end of the campus. The banquet was the highlight of the reunion week end and featured an address by Father Hesburgh. During the week end, outgoing Class President JACK THORNTON appointed a nominating com­mittee who, after due and sober deliberation, pre­
tnte d a slate of officers for the coming five years, "democratic election" followed and the elec­toral board certified the following results: 
President, JOHN LYNCH, 723 Patterson Drive. South Bend, Indiana; Regioniil \'ice-Presidcnts: (East) BILL AVALDRON, 18 West Drive, Livings­ton, N. J.; (Mid-West) "BLACK JOHN" MURPHY, 2600 Crawford Street, Tcrre Haute, Indiana; (Chicago Area) BILL KENNY, 1850 West 83rd Street, Chicago, Illinois; (South) FRtVNK STUMPF, 17 Cherokee Road, Richmond, Virginia; (Southwest) TOM BRENN/\N, 6249 San Felipe, Houston, Texas; (Kansas City and Far West) BOB METZLER, 5315 Mission Hills Terrace, Kansas City, Kansas; Treasurer, TOM ROLFS, West Bend, Wisconsin, and Secretary', GEORGE A. BARIS­
^ILLO , JR., 515 Fifth .-Vvenue, Bradlev Beach, 
Our new Class President, JOHN LYNCH, ac­cepted graciously and promised to serve in tlic tradition and manner of all of our former great Class presidents. Incidentally, John is busy at work compiling and preparing a review of the post 15 years as gleaned from the qucstionnaIre-5ur\'cy made during the past year. He has also under­taken the herculean task of locating many of our stray classmates and already has been successful in returning to the *44 list many who have slipped off the roster as a result of the war mbt-up. Wc wish him well as he assumes class leadership for the next five years, and at the same time we ex­tend our cordial best washes and thanks to the retiring President, JACK THORNTON, for all of his assistance and help during the post five years. 
We had a note from Rev. MARK G. -McGRATH, C.S.C., who was unable to be vvith us due to his duties at St. George's College, in Santiago, Chile, but assured us he would be remembering all '44 men in his prayers in South America. Rev. WILLIAM R. LYONS regretted being unable to attend the reunion. Priest retreat and week-end parish work made it impossible; however, he ^vas with us in spirit as he offered Mass for the Class of '44 on June 14. JACK COLEMxVN who was NROTC is beating the drums for a reunion of the first graduating class of NROTC in February 1944. Jack is in several lines — is a broker in the food business, also V-P of a toy company. .Address: 3686 Stoncbergh Road, Cleveland Heights 21, Ohio — Office: 4019 Prospect Avenue, Cleveland 3, Ohio. KELLY COOK was unable to be present due to his assignment in Chapel Hill, and he has since transferred to the English Department at the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs. TOM CLE­MENS received an assignment at the last moment from the U. S. Information Agency in Washington which prex'cnted him from attending the reunion, and BOB MILFORD was baby-sitting in Marion, Indiana, while his wife was giving birth to their seventh child. 
It was good to hear from TO.M SHELL\VORTH who has a Chevrolet dealership in Morgan Hill, California, 19 miles south of San Jose and 70 miles south of San Francisco on U.S. 101. His home town, incidentally, with a population of 2,400, has four Notre Dame men active in business and civic affairs, including TOM B.ARRY, who tvas head of Notre Dame public relations just prior to the war. Tom Shcllworth suggests a *44 reunion in Cali­fornia, and no doubt there was a gathering *44 men in the San Francisco area for the Cal game this fall. 
During the summer we got a glimpse of ED DRINKARD on a couple of occasions when he was on business in the Jersey Shore area for American Machine and Foundry Company. Ed, BILL WALDRO N who summers in nearby Allen­hurst, and I got together one evening to hash over the reunion shenanigans. 
A recent note from TED TOOLE informs us he IS now assistant to tlie President of Acclaim Hosier>' Mills, Inc. in High Point, North Caro­lina. He reports that JI.M CROWLEY passes through town occasionally, but otherwise Notre Dame men are few and far between in North Carolina. 
There was an unintentional omission on the Memorial ^fass Card distributed at the reunion. We just learned recently that AL.\N THOMETZ passed away in 1956. From the Alumni Office: 
Tlie scoop of the season involves Sccretar>' GEORGE BARISCILLO, long considered the ideal of ever>' red-blooded bacliclor but now Just another benedict. In late summer the parents of Susan Joy Perrella, Interlaken, N. J., announced the en­gagement of their lovely daughter to Commissioner Bariscillo, who had been elected to another term on the Bradley Beach Board. 

In November George married Susan, a teacher is the Asbury Park school s^'stem. Congrats and much joy to George, and may c\'crytlung be "gcorgc" for Sue. 
Bouquets to RAY SMITH, former head of plant engineering for Union Carbide in Texas City, Tex., no%v boosted to general purchasing in the New York office; to wife Jeanette and four little Smiths, Sheryl, seven; Bruce, sLx; Janet, three, and Brent, going on one; to WILLIAM W. ^VICKS, who has joined the public relations dept. of Stand­ard Oil (Indiana) as supervisor of field services after stints with International Hani-ester and Diamond National, where Bill also managed public relations. 
Finally, a nosegay to JOHN W. ANHUT of De­

troit, innkeeper at Botsford Inn, Farmtngton, Mich., elected president of the Michigan Hotel As­sociation. John is also x*ice president of Anhut Hotels and .Anhut Estate Co. in Detroit, where he was president of the local association In 1952 and an officer of the Michigan group for the past four years. And corsages to wife Katherine and their live kids, Karen, Kristine, John, Jim and Jerry. John is a Detroit law 
grad. 
BILL L.\WLESS has added a fifth partner to ba thriving law office in BuHalo, and a third lau-yer, former Alaska Governor MIKE STEPOVICH, came down from Fairbanks to address a Portland, Ore., Northwest congress of the Confraternity of Chrii­tian Doctrine on a subject he knows well, the spiri­tual formation of preschool children by family prayer and a religious atmosphere tn the home, which Mike feels too many parents neglect. 
15 YEAR REUNION Class of '45 JUNE lO-n-12 

I OAK Al Lesmez I IT. * J22 TuDamore Rd. Garden City, N. Y. 
TIME FOR A PARTY 
Plans for the I5-ycar reunion are now well underway. BILL KL£M of South Bend has graci­ously accepted the hard task of being local Chair­man and your Class Secretary u-ill be making a trip in a month or so to help set up the various chairmen for each of the functions which are 
Here's a memory test for alimmi of the early forties. Sec how well your recollection serves on this picture of the 1940 Dillon Hall intia-Aiural squad, courtesy of 1942 Class Secretary Bill Hickey, whose best guesses (and spellings) are as follows: (1st row, 1. to r.) Morau, T)unlavey, Byrne, Clark, Carrol, McNulty, Hayes, Haller, Diegler; (2nd row, I. to r.) Saxon (mgr.), Stauber, V. Hickey, Muipky, Gorden, Burke, Goeller, Landers, Rieley, Miller; (3rd row, I. to r.) McCourt, Sibilsky, VV. Hickey, Kelley, McMahoan, Maas, Bellinger, 
Roins, McNally, Asmuth and Boareor (coach). 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 53 
scheduled for that week end, June 10, 11 and 12. 
More than 70 of the Class members have al­ready promised to be there, and another 20 to 25 are in the "ma>-be" class. Each of you will soon get a list of these people. Perhaps a little my interest in your continued zealous preparations for this 15-year reunion." From DAVE CART^ WRIGHT: "Will certainly be there if I'm alive an J able to move! Sorrj-I haven't written more often. ^Vc*re all fine, MariK*n, myself and six kids. So 
prodding from you wHl swing them over into the positively "yes*' categorv'. At any rate, YOU leave that week end open if you i%*ant to be part of this great reunion. 
LOOK CO\^RS BERLIXERS A recent issue of LOOK magazine was a source of great pleasure as it told in a photographic essay the story of themove that our ou*n HAROLD BERLINER, of Nerada City, California, made from Prospect Street to a larger house in rural Grass Valley. The essay is pictured around the Berliner tu^ns who knew nothing of the move and who did ever>*thing they could to prevent the mov­ers from '^taking av\*ay" all their belongings. Tlie four other Berliner children arc pictured only casually, but the whole family is featured in at least one of the pictures. 
NEWS FROM HERE AND THERE 
BERN.\RD EDWARD GOTTA, JR., moved from 235 Middaugh Road, Clarendon Hills, 111., to IW21 North Rivcnvood Dri\-c, R.R. No. 9, Fort WavTie, Ind. 
Your Class Secretary is preparing a slalc of Class officers for the next five years and is looking for a new Class Secretary. Any of you who ivould like to \-oluntcer will gladly be considered on one of the slates, the final voting lo be done while at the reunion. 
The early part of last summer saw PHIL MAR­TIN coming to town, looking practically as he did when he was a student. It was nice to have him over the house and to talk over old times %vith him. He promised to be at the reunion and lo try to bring his cousin, DICK MARTIN, witli him. 
LETTERS FROM DEP.\RTMENT From MICH.\EL G. GARRY: "I hope nothing so serious will happen to me that I won't be there come next June 10. Still remembering our 10-ycar reunion. I wouldn't miss seeing cvcr>onc in 1960 for an>thlng. I'll be there." From HANK FRAI­LEY: "You bet your life!" From JOHN R. LA\TRY: "'Yes, I'll be at the 15-ycar reunion in 1960. Hope you get a big response to your early news flash. Let mc know If you need some help here." From MARK A. CRONIN, JR.: "I missed the last one, but not this one!" From JACK KINNEY: "Count me in! Would also like to see JULES "MIKE" a\TriE and JOE LIXDE.N there." From BOB GRIFFIN: "Yes, I will be back for the 15-ycar reunion. See if you can get P.AUL W. SMITH to attend." From CHUCK POWERS: "I shall most certainly be there!" From REV. JOHN J. CONNELLY: "I hope that I can make the reunion next June. Keep me posted." From HANK PISANKO: **^''es, thanks for the reminder!" From BILL MOORE: "Tliis is In reply to your letter of May 23. I believe that asking BILL KL^ l to handle the arrangements for the next reunion is a ver>* wise choice inasmuch as BUI previously did a very wonderful job. As you prob­ably know, I was recently transferred from New York CIt>- to our main office in Bound Brook, N. J. "With regard to my continuance as Class Treas­urer, I would like to ask that you do not place me on your 'ticket.' I think it would be de­sirable to have the \-arious class oflicers rotated among other members, so that no one person is saddled more often than necessary. It is my very frank opinion that the class president and xicc president should also be clianged every five years. **I appreciate receiving the $1 dues from KEN KEHL. You might be interested to know that this is the first dues received in many, many months. At the moment I do not have a recap available of our actual balance of the ntmiber of our class members who have paid their dues, but I will endeavor to get this to you in the next week or so. "I trust you will have a good trip to Noire Dame and I sincerely hope evcr>'thing works out satisfactorily for the organization of our next reunion! As far as tlic reunion is concerned, I'll be there with bells on!" From BROTHER THO\L\S AQUINAS, C.S.C.: '•Thanks for the information, inxite, etc, for the 15-year reunion. After eight years at Lakcwood St. Edward High, I*vc been assigned to Notre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks, California. The distance seems to barrier any N.D.U. reunion trip." From VERN FROST: "It's only "MAY­
54 Notre Dame Alumnus^ December, 1959 
^r 
THOMAS K. REIS, '41 On the iVfast, Our Alan in Minneapolis 

Late in September Readet^s Digest, the world's most widely read magazine, opened a Minneapolis-St. Paul advertising sales office for its U.S. Edition with Tom Rcis as manager. 
Probably the first N.D. man since the late J. P. McEvoy to appear on the Digest masthead, Tom has previously been listed as a member of the Chicago staff. It is an honor much envied by the editorial staf­fers, whose saying, "Twenty years before the masthead," indicates the difficulty of obtaining a listing. 
After graduation Tom left his native Indianapolis for Bridgeport Conn., and business training with General Electric, in­terrupted by Na\*y V-7 midshipman train­ing. He spent two years in the Pacific aboard a destroyer escort, attained the rank of full lieutenant, and in 1945 married Navy Nur^c Elizabeth Mary Lyons. Out of ser\*ice, he sold ads for National Transit-ads in Chicago until 1949, when he-joined the advertising department of Crowell-Col­lier Publishing Co. In 1953 he became Cleveland manager for Colliers, but shortly before that magazine folded in 1956 he accepted the Chicago sales job for Readers Digest, ^^•hich had just begun to run ad­vertising. As Twin Cities manager he's moving into permanent offices now. 
Already active in the Twin Cities N.D. Club and the Minneapolis Athletic Cliib, Tom is an enthusiastic annual rctreatant and golfs with his wife as often as he can. They have four children, a girl and three boys. As a family they like to skate, swim and water ski together. 
BE," since it's a long way from Los Angeles. If any^%"ay is possible, I'll sure make it." 
From REV. DANIEL F. CURTIN, C.S.C.: **\ViIl sign out for this \wth a conditional 'YES.* Right now tlie dates seem clear but my strained ^-ision cannot get around the dim corner of '60. I did want to answer promptly to let you kno\v* of here's a resounding YES. I sec DAVE CHAMPION 
regularly — will see if he's going! Hope this 
finds you well.*' 
From JOHN P. FLEAKA: "Yes, I am sure that I will be Uiere." From PAT MAZZA: "Yes, I'll be there for certain. Looking forx%'ard to it.*' From JOHN CARON: "I will be there, God willing.** 
From TOM VAIL: "Your information that you arc resigning the position of secretary of the class \v-as quite a shock. You have done such a marvel­ous job for so many years tliat your name means the Class of '45. I certainly hope you will recor.** sider sta>"Jng on. I don't plan to attend the re­union In June 1960, but I am sure It will be a very fine occasion. 
"I hope you mil think again before resigning as secretary- because the job you are doing for Notre Dame and the Class of '45 is outstanding. 
"Tlianks again for your kind thoughts." 

From HENRY B. PAYNE: "During the holidays I was talking with an older man, a graduate of another university and a good one. He was dis­cussing Class Reunions and seemed to be of the opinion that In recent years there wasn*t nearly as much drinking and that they were more serious than formerly, although they drank their quota, etc. 
''Possibly, some of the participants would bi^ interested in taking the opportunity to get a firs: J hand insight into current status and progress at the University. Such things as a lecture by who­ever this man is (one of the members of a depart­ment . of the University) recently written up in an N.D. publication, who uses, I think, audio visual aids to help third grade cliildrcn study French and so on. A talk by one of the Lobund people on what they're doing out there. In fact, there were a lot of stimulating items in the same recent issue. Also, the item about progress and use of television enabling competent teachers to cover a high volume of students, ^faybe I'm in the minority but I would like to sec some of these things at the reunion.** 
From J. R. RETTER: "We are finally getting settled down in New England. A few more Jol j remain and the home will be in good shape. I am still going thru my predecessor's file in the office but I hope to clean out the last by the time my \'acation comes up In July. AVe arc going to Cape Cod for the first time and anxious to see this part of the counlr>*. 
I went over to MIT this month and had lunch with RAY BADDOUR. He looks well, is mar­ried, and has two or three cliildrcn. 
".Mso saw DICK SAYERS when I was wsitlng Nfonsanto. He looked vcr>* well and we are plan­ning a get-together in September with Ray, Dick and me when Dick visits Boston. 
"Our family is well. Number five, Susan, is sitting up and progressing ver>* well. I hope yoiL and your family are well and prospering.** ,^ 
Well, men of *45, gucs^ that's all for the time being. Drop your old secretary a note and let me know liow YOU and YOUR family are. My little Arthur, age sbc months, is doing wonderfully, and keeping his Daddy busy. S'long for now . . . Al. From the Alumni Office: 
Congratulations to R. J. ANDERSON, JR., of Scotch Plains, N. J., on his appointment as eastern electrical dixision manager of Johnson &. Johnson's Permacel Dlrision in New Bruns^rick. Quite a switch for a man who followed up his B.N.S. with a chemical engineering degree and went on to be a Georgetown lawyer in the Justice Department and patent attorney for Johns-Manvillc ^<^. J&J. Rudy joined Permacel in 1957 as dirccic-' of industrial products, and the Andersons now have four cliildrcn. Also to THOMAS F.ATRICK DOWDLE, JR., whom U. S. Gj-psum has pro­moted from central paint district sales manager to marketing manager of paint products, according to Gypsum News. An>-one In touch with Tom should urge him to rejoin his original class in time for the reunion. .All he need do is write to the Alumni Office. 
19 4 A  Jack Tcnge, Jr.  
**  2025 W. Six Mile Rd.  
Detroit 3, Michigan  ^i  

CHRIS COCHRANE, x-icc president of tlie Notre Dame Club of the Eternal City,. lias been per­forming many ofEcial duties. See the Rome Club report and pictures in this issue. 
From the Alumni Office: ^Hol y Cross priests from the Class of *46 have V c religious care of undcrgrads pretty much 
sewed up at N.D. It has been said before hut bears repeating that FATHER GLENN BOAR­MAN, as Prefect of Religion and editor of the Religious Bulletin, is working in the spirit (if not the format and vocabuIar>') of the tradition estab­lished by CARDLVAL O'HARA. For a former philosophy prof, hc*s pretty *'hep" to the pattern of the current crop of campus beatniks, but more importantly he's wise to their foibles and s>-m­pathetic with their problems. In "cool" prose and "crazy" picures (not excluding quotes from "Beat" king Jack Kcrouac of "%oy-out" cartoons a la Mad INIagazine) Father Glenn "blows a swinging sound" — sound moral theology*, that is 
j ^ and IS read by **cats" and "squares" alike. 
"ATHE R DAN O'NEILL has given a great assist as Assistant Prefect for the frosh, ex'en to sharing thtiir "pad^* as a prefect in Stanford Hall. 
1947 J^c^ ^''^^ 
• 3218 Bentley Lane South Bend, Ind. 

SE/\SON'S GREETIXGSI 
Just on the chance this Issue of the ALUMNUS reaches you in time — and it*s a long chance, at that, if past performance is any criterion — permit me to extend to all you men of *47 and your 
families warmest wishes for a truly blessed Christ­
^Las and a new year replete with happiness . . . and, please God, some progress toward a just and lasting peace. 
PARTLY PERSONAL . . . 
Your Secretary* will be attending Jan. 15 and 16 the Class Secretaries Conference in the Nforris Inn on campus; this conclave is a \'aluable one, in that it brings together us scribes and members of the University administration to discuss such topics as new developments, revisions of present practices, continuing fundamentals .. . in general, to keep us in close toucli with the scliool and its aspira­tions, ri l keep you posted on results of the Con­ference insofar as they affect our Class. 
IIANK YOU, HAL HUMPHREY! 

• \Vc*re indebted to Hal Humphrey, syndicated Holly^vood columnist, for an up-to-date report on GERRY COWHIG. Actually, the story was on Gerry's wUc, the lovely and oft-seen-on-TV Jean Willes, but it did mention that the Cowhigs have a six-year-old son and Hve a semirural life in the San Fernando Valley. Handsome Gerry, who played plenty of football at Notre Dame and for the Los Angeles Rams, turned in.a few movie stints but now — according to the Humphrey report — is in the freight forwarding business. How about some corroborative testimony, Gerry? 
FLAPS FROM THE MATERNITY WING Congratulations to Barbara and JIM MURPHY n the arri\"al of their first daughter (joining three 
• rothers), Mary Lorctta, who weighed in at 8 lbs., 3 oz., Sept. 4, and to Anne Marie and CIL\RLIE POINSATTE, who welcomed their second child, Francoise Marie, Aug. 20. 
Jim, as you know, is N.D.'s academic tub-thumper, while Charlie is on the faculty at St. Marj''s (which docs have an occasional class be­tween tea dances!]. 
JOIN YOUR LOCAL CLUBS 
.\ recent Class Actinties Report submitted by the Alumni Assn. Board of Directors recommends strongly "an increased participation, under Class identity, in local Notre Dame Club activities." It 
^fentends competition among Classes in the con­
duc t and support of Local Club affairs is desirable, so let the Class of 1947 be well represented and highly vocal in local Alumni branches. 
LETTERS . . . And, for a change, we have a few .. . I don't know if my heart can stand such a jolt. 
SAM ADELO writes: "Saludos Amlgol Came through South Bend last week (Aug. 12) on my way back from Europe, North Africa, and the Middle East. Called but no answer. 
"Trip lasted six weeks . . . Portugal, Spain, Libya, Italy, Greece, Lebanon, Kuwait, Jordan, Syria, Germany, and France. Ever>'thlng \vas most interesting and fascinating. 
"Visited home of my Lebanese ancestors. .. . 

• ad is now lU*ing here part of the time and part of the time in the States. Arabic learned when I was a cliild came back to me quickly.** 
Sam also enclosed a reprint from the TULSA TRIBUNE on the foreign languages information 
GUS A. ZUEHLKE, '43 Bonanzn-Borne, a Barnstorming Banker 

Early this year Gus Zuehlke was named president of the Appleton State Bank, Ap­pleton. Wis., a barnstorming operation \vhich also covers the towns of Fremont, Shiocton, Dale and Hortonville. This is just one more banking chore for Gus, who has been president and a director of Reeds-ville State Bank since 1946 and vice presi­dent and director of the Bank of Black Creek since 1952. He is also a partner in the A. F- Zuehlke Mortgage & Loan Co., owner of Gus A. Zuehlke Real Estate and Insurance Agency, a director of Valley Ready Mix Concrete Co., and president and director of Appleton State Corp., a real estate holding company. 
.After graduation in Commerce Gus spent three and a half years in the Navy; saw action in the Pacific as skipper of an LGT, for which he won a Bronze Star, and spent a year as operations officer on the staff of Admiral Brady. 
Returning to Appleton, Gus augmented his banking, realty and industrial operations with plenty of Notre Dame and community activity. He is a past president of the Fox River Valley N.D, Club and \vas named the club's Man of the Year in 1951. Under his general chairmanship a fund drive to build Xavier Catholic High School netted more than $1.3 million. Currently he's president of the Appleton Chamber of Commerce, a mainstay of Rotar>* and the executive committee of the Republican Part)'. 
Gus' chief hobby is flying his Beechcraft Bonanza, "The Caribee," either to N.D. games or on trips like his recent 5,000-mile island hop through the Caribbean to South America. He and his wife have two chil­dren. Holly 5, and Gus, Jr., 1. Their ad­dress is 1715 Hycrcst Drive, Appleton. 
center he headed for his employer, Kendavis Indu»> tries. Inc., of Ft. Worth, at the recent International Petroleum Exposition In Tulsa. At the center, visitors could have -their questions answered by Interpreters over the telephone in such languages as English, Spanish, Portuguese, French, German, Arabic, Parsi, and Hindustani. 
"By the way,*' Sam concludes, "I always have pleasant visits with Notre Darner DAVE THORN­TON, Class of M8 and Law *53, when I am in Tulsa." 
Recent columns have reported the deaths of some members and relatK^s of the *47 contingent, and three letters are in reply to expressions of con­dolence your Secretary sent In your name to the bereaved families. 
Mrs. JACK FORSTER replied as follows: "Thank you so much for your kind and sympathetic letter of June 26. I am most grateful to you and the members of the Class of 1947 for the Masses that have been arranged for the repose of Jack's soul.. 
"It is comforting and heart %varming to learn there Is such thoughtfulncss and kindness among classmates that have spread far and wide since graduation. 
"Jack passed away very suddenly and unex­pectedly after only 12 hours of Illness. The cause %vas acute pancreaitis, and while e\'crything pos* sible was done for him, it was of no a>'all." 
Mrs. Forstcr enclosed a clipping from the Mil­waukee Journal summing up his career since grad­uation: He was treasurer and general manager of the Crandon AVhoIesale Drug Co., Miami, and Crandon Drugs, Inc., Ft. Lauderdale, both af­filiates of Yahr-Lange, Inc., a Milwaukee drug firm founded by his great-grandfather and of which his father is Wce-president. 
From JOE McNAMARA in Indianapolis: "Thanks many times for your very kind letter of June 19 about my Dad's passing on to his final reward. For your Info, eight out of nine sons went to Notre Dame. Only four of us graduated, but we all agree that the opportunity was tremendous. The ninth one couldn't get in when he wanted to start and ended up without any college education. 
"Hope I can some day say that my six sons had the opportunity to be N.D. men. Afraid my two girls couldn't pass the entrance requirements!" 
Daielined Sept. 10, a note from FItANK GIL­HOOLEY reads: "A thousand thanks for your kind expression of sympathy at the time of my Dad's death. 
"While he hadn't been in real tip-top shape, he was able to work every day, so his passing was a jolt for the entire family and something that you don't bounce back from in a hurry. However, our faith has been a tremendous help and has les­sened our burden considerably. 
''Speaking of help, I'm afnud I haven't made your job as Class Secretary an easy one and the reason for It can only be called 'Gross Irish Neglect* . . . something for ^vhich I have no alibi! 
"I am currently doing a sports sho%v on both radio and television here in Toledo as well as the play-by-play of the High School Football Game of the Week on AVTOL radio. I also do the same broadcast during the basketball season. 
" I work for and w-iih — one Doug Tabner, prob­ably the most aWd Ohio State fan in this area, so you can well Imagine that our shows frequently end up as 'harpoon contests' .. . all In fun, though, and our listeners seem to like It. 
"On at least one Saturday this fall I intend to root for the Irish in person at South Bend, and I hope to see you then." 
Thanks to you all for your letters; they are ver>' much appreciated. 
RATTLING THE COFFERS 
Class Treasurer JOE SHARP reports the current balance is a mere $42; our expenses aren't great. of course, but there Is always the specter of death and the resultant Requiem Slasses to be considered . . . plus the funds necessary to organize the 1962 reunion. If you haven't contributed yet, please do; the next Requiem Mass may be for YOU. 
NEW .ADDRESSES . . . 
.. . are arailabic for: JACK BARRETT. DR. JIM BOREN, FLOYD BRADLEY, PAT BREN­NAN, BOB CANNON, SISTER CATHERINE THERESE ^VELL.\LAN, S.C.. JULES CATIIE, DAN DANIS, D.\VE DETREMPE, JACK EASLEY, JOSEPH OCTAVE E.\iOND, JR., JIM FITZ­GERALD, aAPT. JACK HYNES, OUT. BILL LEAVEY. VINCE LIEI»L\N, LEN LUTZ, JIM AfcGURK, PAUL McKEE, JOE McNA^LARA, DR. JOHN MEYERS, JOHN MOELLER, TOM .MIQUETTE, BILL NOVACK, GERRY O'REILLY, JOHN OWEN, HAROLD SOLOMON, BILL SWANSON, JACK TRIXLER and BOB WELCH. 
Notre Dame Alumnus_, December, 2959 55 
R£QUIESa\T I am sorry to have to report that *'the Duke*'— JOHN DUCATO of North East, PcnnsyK-ania — died October 4 of a heart attack he had suffered four days pre\"iously. Our classmate, only 33 years old, was Executive Vice President and Treasurer of tlic Tacconc Pneu­matic Foundry near Eric at the time of his death and from all reports on the threshold of a promising career as a gifted executive. At Xotrc Dame, many of you will recall, he was on the x-arsity football squad, a member of the Commerce Forum and President of the Pittsburgh Club. After commencement, he took graduate work at the University of Pittsburgh. Deatli has now reduced our number by 14 in I2i4 years, and I know all of you will remember him in your prayers and Join with me in expressing sincercst s^Tnpathy to his widow, Josephine, and their cliildrcn Kathr>*n, Micliclle and Micliael. As a sacramental expression of our remembrance Father Matthew Miccli, C.S.C., Rector of Stanford Hall, and our classmate sang a Requiem Mass October 18 in tlic Hall Chapel for the re­pose of Duke's soul. 
PERSO.NWLS AT PRESS TIME BILL HASSETT was in town for the North­western game and put in a call. Bill is regional sales manager (Roclicster-Syracuse) for Eastern Trail Ways, Inc., Carlstadt, N. J., and was re­cently elected treasurer of iJie N.D. Club of Cen­tral, .N*. Y. Our last column carried a note that ED RUETZ is studying for the priesthood, and now his mother lias furnished additional details. Ed is in his iirst year of four years of study at the Tlieological Col­lege in Washington, D. C; upon ordination, he will be assigned in the Fort Waxne, Ind., diocese by the Bishop. During the summers he will be working for Catholic Charities in Soutli Bend. May God grant you success in your preparations and during your priestly life, Ed. JACK ZILLY is an assistant fooball coach at Brown University in Prondcncc, R. I.; he Joins anotlier Notre Damer, MILT PIEPUL, '40, on the coacliing staff there. JIM MONAHAN has moved from Des Moines to Council Bluffs in the tall com state of Iowa. BILL B.\RRY is a Lt.-Commander x\-ith the Naxy at Portsmouth, Va.,' having been transferred there recently from Chicago. What's this?! DR. ED HAMEL lives at 3916 Lush Drive in Sacramento. What's the origin of that name, Ed? REV. LOUIS G. KELEHER, OS.C, is currenUy stationed in tlie No\*a Scotian town of Rockingham. How's the winter there, Fatlier? Other in-state movements include ED DOWD from Sea Bright to Summit, N. J., and BOB TEWKSBURY from Bridgeport to Mandicstcr, Conn. 
.\ND IX CLOSING . . . 
If you're stuck on the order of your New Year's resolutions, put this first: I shall be more diligent in furnishing news of myself and my actixities to my classmates via our eager Secretary during i960 . . . and 1961 . . . '62 . . . and (with a credit to skin-domed Yul Br\-nner) *'Et cetera! Et cetera! Et cetera!" 
1948 J°^" Defant 
c/o University Press 
Notre Dame, Ind. 
Tlic response to the questionnaires being sent to the class is wonderful. Of the 285 questionnaires mailed in June, more tlian 24 per cent w*ere filled out and returned. An additional 190 were sent in August and 300 in September. The remaining 300 or so will be mailed shortly after you receive this issue. 

A 24 per cent return may not seem earth-shaking, but the Alumni Office assures me that it is far, far better than the average return of similar questionnaires sent to other classes. A good deal of the credit goes to the wives, I am sure. How about the distaffers doing a little more prodding so tliat at least some of the missing 76 per cent will return their questionnaires? 
The class column looks a lot healthier in this and the last issue, thanks to the questionnaires. I hope that you use the vital statistics and ad­dresses reported in these columns to ren«v friend­ships with classmates whom you may have lost con­tact with. If you are looking for the address of any classmate whose name and address have not been listed here, I have the complete class list and will be happy to supply any address. 
56 Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 
CHARLES J. PATTERSON, '44 In Boston, a Powerhouse for Perini 
Academic auguries came true last sum­mer when the directors of Perini Corpora­tion, one of the world^s largest construction firmSj elected Chuck Perini vice president for corporate relations and executive as­sistant to the president, 
A '47 grad sentimentally attached to his war-riddled original Class of *44, Chuck has worked for Perini for 12 years, first as presidential sccrctarj* and since early 1957 as special assistant. He founded and still edits Perini News, a lively, picture-packed chronicle of the company's family and world-wide operations. He has also pre­pared company brochures and advertising programs. 

These far-flung accomplishments mirror Chuck's many campus acti\'itics and honors. Student jobs involved assisting the faculty and staff, while his interests ranged from touring with the N.D. Glee Club to edi­torial posts on the Juggler and Dome, none of which prevented his winning a Dome Award and taking his A.B. magna cu m laude. As an alumnus he is active in the Notre Dame Club of Boston/ a former presi­dent and Man of the Year. 
Bom in • Gretna, Nebraska, where his mother serves as postmaster, he spent a three-year World War II hiatus as a car­rier-based Navy pilot. His hobbies now in­clude the Milwaukee Braves baseball dub, owned by the Perini brothers, Louis, Joseph and Charles, and operated by John McHale, another '47 refugee. 
Our aim should be to fill at least one full page of txcry issue of the ALUMNUS with *48 class news. With more tlian 1000 in the class, it shouldn't be much of a problem to have news from some 50 members in each issue. To insure this, I would like to have some of you volunteer to contact class members in your area either by phone, mail, or personally, several times a year to collect the news of briths, promotions. Job changes, c:hanges of address, ci\ic or other honors, and anything else 

of interest. 
I asked BART JOHNSON (310 Fairhill Roa^^ 

\Vynncwood, Pa.) to do this in the Philadelphia 
area, and he graciously consented to help out. 
Now if some of you will forget the old 5er\ice pre­
cept of *'never volunteer for an>ihing" and agree 
to cover any part of your home grounds for the 
good old Class of *48, we can really get this rolling . 
for the mostest and bestest news. Phone, wire, or 
WTite me how much territor>- you are uilHng to 
cover and I'll send you the names and addresses of 
all class members in that area. Tlien business will 
be booming. 
To all the class, thanks for the wonderful re­

sponse, and keep sending your news items to me 
until you are contacted by someone in your area. 
JOHN AMBERG, Peoria, 111., is accounting ar-^ 

office manager of Buehlcr Super Markets. 13 ^ 
and his wife Elizabeth have three children. He 
reports that JOHN E. aVSSIDY is an attorney 
with Cassidy and Cassidy in Peoria, and CORNIE 
CLATT is football coach of East Peoria High. 
EDWARD F. AYLWARD, Kansas City, Mo., is 

an attorney associated with two others in the prac­
tice of law in Kansas City. He notes that RUSS 
FARRELL has five cliildrcn and also lives in K. C. 
Teresa and DAN BARLO;V, Schenectady, N. Y., 

sent a pleasant note along with a photo of the 
family — all ten of them. Dan is titles engineer 
in the Value Service Department of General Elec­
tric and recently passed the New York state ex­
amination for professional engineer. His wife i*. 
the former Teresa Murphy, who attended S W 
Mary's. Married in 1948, they have eight cliildren. 
CILVRLES BE.\ULIEU, Huntington, L. I., N. Y., is Long Island brancli manager for the Friden Calculator Co. He is married to the former Mary Lou Malone, a St. Mar>-'s 1948 graduate, and has seven children. 
WAYNE BEA\^ERSON, Buchanan, Mich., is \ice president for engineering of Electro-Voice, Inc. He and his wife Jane have six children. 
JE/\N R. BRAUWEILER, Homcwood, 111., is engineer economist for Standard Oil. He and his wife, the former Joan Marie Husscj-, liavc five cliildren. 
RICHARD BURNS, JR., Hinsdale, III., is a phj'sician on the staff of Ilincs Veterans Hospital. He has his M.D. from Loyola and an M.S. ai^ ) Ph.D. from Illinois. Married to the former Mary* Sheldon, he has four children. 
JOHN aVRVIL, JR., Norfolk, Va., is manager of Automatic Equipment Sales, a wholesale dis­tributor of carrier air conditioning. He and his wife, the former Anne Barbour, have one child. John mentioned that ^V. L. HUTCHENS, of New­port News, Va., was married and is now a father. 
DON CLARK, Chicago, is a partner of John S. Clark & Sons, a real estate, insurance, and prop­erty management firm. He reports: FR/\NK THOMETZ is in the stock brokerage business in Chicago and is about to become a father; ED EL­LIOTT is living in Indianapolis; TOM POOLE, who just returned from a two-month business trin to the Far East, is assistant export manager fi^^ Kimberly Clark Corp. in Nicnali, ^Vis. 
WILLLVM COMSTOCK, Houston, Tex., is man­ager of operations of the South Texas District of General Electric Co. Married to the former Kath­leen Burke, he has two children. 
PAUL COREY, Cleveland, Oliio, is president of the Cleveland Teachers Union and Cleveland Fede­ration of Government Employees and w*a5 recently elected chairman of the Committee on Education of tlie Ohio AFL-CIO. He is married and has a son. 
JOHN COSGRO\% Silver Spring, Md., is Director of Education of the AFL-CIO in Wash­ington, and is also an instructor at Gcorgetowj^ He is married to the former Katherine Mines anff*^ has sue children. Last May at his daughter's First Communion breakfast he ran into LARRY CARR, w*hose son u-as in the same class and also making his First Communion. Larry is practicing law in Washington. 
LEO JOSEPH COSTELLO, Patcrson, N. J., is vnlh Leo A. Costello & Sons, Electrical Contractors. He and the former Rita ^[umer were married in 1953, and they have five cliildren. 
ART COUGHLAN, Lexittown, N. Y., is a senior accountant with Peat, Marvvick, Mitdiell &. Co. in New York City. Art is married to the former Josephine De Liso and has one daughter. (Note to <\rt: Good to hear from a former roomie.) -% 
TOM COYNE, Pacific Grove, Cal., is licK principal of Del Rey Woods School in Seaside, Cal. He and his wife, the former Patricia Maher, have three children. Tom writes that he sees LOUIS DUDAK regularly. 
MARION* CR/\NEY, Indianapolis, Ind., is as­
sociate director of ihc Indiana zVssoctation for 
Sfcintal Health. He and his wife • Vera have five 
lildren. 
BILL DAILEY, JR., North Bennington, Vt., is u-ith William £. Dailcy, Inc., a construction and ready-mixed concrete firm. Married since 1949, he and his u'ifc Mary have sbc cliildrcn. 
JAMES DOXOGHUE, AXIIliamsvillc, X. Y., is tcrritor\- manager of the Diamond Gardner Corp. of New York City. I can't report anything further about him because the second page of tlie qucsr ttonnaire strayed somewhere between him and me. 
BILL DONZE , Berea, Ohio, completed his medi­cal studies at St. Louis University in 1952 and is now specializing in obstetrics and gynecology. Mar­ried to Bemicc Nordmann in 1950, he has four Hldren. He notes that he would like to hear from J. P. FRIDAY and T. A. DOOLEY. 
f
TOM DOOLEY has been much in the news and probably most of you have already seen stories about his unfortunate illness. Late in August he was operated on for malignant melanoma in St. Louis, then went to the S^oan-Kcttering Cancer Institute in New York for further diagnostic tests. .A. wire story early in September said that the tests showed that all the cancerous tissue had been re­moved and that he would embark on a fund-raising tour for Medico. Unfortunately, however, a wire stor>' in mid-September said that the cancer had not been removed and that he had only about a year to live, but that he would still conduct the id raising tour. Dale Francis devoted part his column in the September 20 issue of the national edition of Our Snnday Visitor to Tom and his work in organizing the medical missions and called him one of our modem heroes. 
JIM DROXEY, Canonsburg, Pa., is branch 
manager of Smith-Corona Marcliant, Inc. He was 
transferred to the Pittsburgh branch last January 
from Springfield, Mass. Jim, who is married to the 
former Patricia Betz and has one son, came through 
with a host of notes about classmates: BILL GRIF­
FIX has an architecture and real estate business in 
Bridgeport, Conn.; JACK WARD was recently ap­
pointed assistant advertising manager of Pittsburgh 
Steel; TOM E^XGrVX, '47, is Personnel Director of 
t
the Torrington Co., Torrington, Conn.; and BILL VWLIXS is living' in Lima, X'. Y., and has rcc children. 
HARRY DUa\T , Bloomfield, X. J., is com­
mercial staff supcr\"isor in the rate and development 
group of Xew Jersey Bell Telephone. He and his 
wife Kathcrine have four children. 
ROBERT ETZEL, Toledo, Ohio, is doing pack­
aging research for the Owens-Illinois Glass Co. 
JI.M GREEN* has been elected a Member of Parliament from the St. John's East District of Xewfoundland and is now leader of her maj'esty's Loj-al Opposition, the Progressivc-Conscr%-atives. 
JOHN' G. MADDEN', Tulsa, Okla., is vice presi­dent in charge of sales of the Peerlcss-Tulsa Co., a wholesale plumbing and heating supplies firm. He ^ married to the fonner Gcraldinc Mayficid and tney have two children. 
WILLIAM MAZ.VXEC, Coral Gables, Fla., is with All Stales Realty in West Miami, a real estate and residential construction firm. He married Rose­mary Claus in 1954, and they have three diildren. He reports that TOM SULLIVjVX, uho is with the AMCLO office at Cape Canaveral, Florida, just passed the Florida bar and his second son was bom last fall, and that MIKE ^VEXDELL is Assistant States Attorney for Xe\'ada and residing in Reno. 
BILL MEEHiVX, Philadelphia, Pa., your secre­tary's erstwhile roomie, is a partner in the law %m of Meehan, Xejt Si Richctte. ^^arricd In i931, he and his wife Pat have five children. 
EDWARD MELIA, Evanstorn, 111., is purchas­ing agent of the Petroleum ^farketing Division of Gulf Oil. He j'oined Gulf as an attorney in 1957 and was made diWsion purchasing agent in 1958. He and his wife, the former Jean Kilroy, have seven children ranging in ages from 10 years to a few months. 
JIM MELLO, Xarragansctt, R. I., is physical education instructor at the Ladd School for Re­tarded Children in Exeter, R. I. He and lus wife, the former Winifred Jacqueline Castle, have four children. 
ALDO MEROLLIXI, Silver Springs, Md., is 
I
k ph>'sicist and engineer w*ith the Diamond Ord­
ance Fuze Laboratories, a department of the 
Army. He has three cliildren. 
JACK NHLDER, Mt. Vernon, N. Y., is doing 
cancer research and is the administrator for grants on research on the therapy of cancer for the fVmerican Cancer Society. Jack, who received his 
M.D. from Xorthwcstem ^fedical School in 1951, has one daughter. 
JOHN' A. .MILLER, Los Altos, CaliL, is a sales­man of industrial chemicals for the Amclicm Prod­ucts, Inc., of Ambler, Pcnn. He and his wife, the former Mercedes Cronin, have seven children. John reports that they have formed an alumni club and have named it the San Francisco-Peninsula Club, whicli gcnerallv meets at the club of SCRt\PIROX YOUXG. 
REV. WILLIA.M E. MILLS, JR., Devon, Pa., is curate of Good Samaritan Episcopal Church in Paoli, Pa. Married in 1958, he has one cliild. 
GEORGE MOBILLE, Ariington, Va., is a part­ner in the law firm of Cushman, Darby & Cush­man, which specializes in patents in Washington. He was married in 1958 and the first child is due in January. He notes that FR.-\XK KEEXAX is administrative assistant to Congresswoman Florence D^\-yer of Xew Jersey and that LOU ALMASI and JACK FALLOX arc practicing law in Buffalo and Kansas City respectively. 
PARIS ilOXSOUR, JR., Jacksonville, Fla., re­ceived his M.D. from Georgetown in 1952 and is now specializing in internal medicine in Jack­sonville. Married to Betty Jean Joseph of Jack­sonville, he has four children. 
PHILIP MUN'XIXG, Red Bank, X. J., is district manager of the State Farm Insurance Co. He and his wife Eileen have five cliildren. 
I have been corresponding with DZAS MURPHY, Maple Grove Farm, Cass City, Mich., who, you may remember, had very poor eyesight and re­quired readers while in school. Although he has some vision and can get about unaided, he is blind according to legal definition and has been unem­ployed since graduation. He would be delighted to hear from any of you. 
ALFRED J. O'BRIEX, JR., Xew York City, is publicity director of the O. S. Tyson Co., an in­dustrial advertising agcnc>*. He was married on September 19. 
ELDOX S. O'BRIEX, Los Gatos, Calif., is the owner and operator of a firm of private invcstiga­tor3 specializing in trial preparation. He has sLx cliildren. 
JOHN' W. O'BRIEX, is vice president and com­merical loan officer of the St. Joseph Bank & Trust Co. in South Bend. He and his wife, the former Xancy Henderson, have five children. 
R. E. (DICK) O'CONNELL, JR., Marshall, >[inn., is the owner of O'ConnelPs Ford-Mercury in Marshall and thrown in this plu^ "Best deals anywhere for Notre Dame men.** He married Edith Struthers in 1948, and they have five chil­dren. He notes that MARK BEN'NON lives in Minneapolis; CHUCK METZGER is a CPA in Tcrre Haute. Ind.; JIM CLE.MENS is in the candy business in Paola, Kansas; BILL MEAGHER is in Portland, Ore., and TOM DOUGHERTY is a Fairmont, Minn., la%*-ycr. 
JOHN A. O'COXNOR is managing editor of the San Francisco MOXITOR, the archdiocesan newspaper. Married to the fonner Sara Lee Ander­son, he has three children. 
^VILLIAM "BUCKY" O'CONNOR, Oklahoma City, Okla., is the owner of an oil produdng and exploration firm. He is married to the former Jane Wegcr, and they have three children. Bucky reported that D.AVID M. THORNTON* is chief council for the Murphy Oil Co. in Oklahoma City and a sL-c-handicap golfer. 
JAMES V. 0'DON*NELL, Billings, Mont., ne­gotiates and handles gas and oil leases for the Northern Pacific Railway Co. as assistant land­man in the Oil Development Dept. He and his wife, the former Shirley Bakko, have three children. 
PAUL L. OLSON, 609 ^V. Center St.. Cambridge, III., is a farm forester with the Illinois Dlxision of Forestry. He Is married to the former Amy Peter­son and they have three children. 
JOHN B. O'.NULLEY, JR., Denver 8, Colo., is president of C &. M Industries, which manufactures mining equipment, and Associated Engineers, a de­sign and construction engineering firm. He is mar­ried to the former Barbara Ryan. 
PATRICK S. O'NEILL, .Alton, 111., is an attor­ney associated • with O'Neill & O'Neill. He was elected probate Judge of the county In 1958. (Con­gratulations, Pat, from the old roomie.} He and his ^rifc, the former Susan Hetlage, have five children. 
JOSEPH W. O'REILLY,. Lakewood, Ohio, is an accountant executive for the Xorthem Ohio Broad­casting Co. (Station WXOB) and Midwest rep­resentative for 20th Century-Fox Record Corp. He and his wife Elizabeth have three children. He noted that DAVE DE.AN Is a physician at the Dean Clinic in Madison, VHs. 
ROGER P. O'REILLY, \Vichita, Kansas, Is con­struction superintendent for a firm designing' and building steam and hydroelectric stations. He mar­ried Dorothy Heman in 1950 and they have three 
KALAMAZOO — N. D. Coaches, hosts and other cclehritics at the 7th annual golf outing of the Kalamazoo, Mich., Club included: (standing, L to r.) Dave Hurd, Joe Kuharich, Buddy Blattner, Vice President Frank Kersjes, Forddy Anderson, Joe Scudero, (kneeling, I. to r.) Don Doll, Hugh Devore, Dick Evans, and Dave Slattcry. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 2959 57 
children. Roger's permanent address is: c/o Her­nan, 2855 Hobart St.» AVoodsidc, N. Y. 
ELMER OSTERMEYER, Indianapolis. Ind., is controller of American Red Ball Transit Co* He and his ^vifc, the former Joan Melody, have three cliildren. 
JIM OIT , Elm Grove, Wis., is a manufacturers* agent. He and his wife Jean Iiavc three children. He notes that JOHN CAHILL is an attorney and RAY D\V\''ER an arcliitcct and that both practice in Milu-aukce. 
CHARLES OUXXS, JR., Eduardsburg, Mich., is field sales manager for a pharmaceutical firm. He and Ins \\ife Chcr>l have four cliUdren. 
ROBERT E. PIERSON, East Grccnwicli, R. I., was Just made commodity manager for transporta­tion products in U. 5. Rubber's general products divTsion, where he's been since graduation, except for military' leave. Mar­ried, Bob is based in tlie Providence plant, handling ever^'thing from fuel tanks to boat hulls. 

BERNARD POPHAM, Louisrille, Ky., received his M.D. from the Uni\"crsity of Louisville Medical School and is now an instructor at the scliool as well as in the pri\'atc practice of internal medicine. Married to the former Betty Burcli in 1948, he has five cliildren. 
FRED PORTER, Northbrook, lU., received his 

M.D. from St. Louis School of Medicine and he is now assistant medical director of the Prudential Insurance Co. He has one cliild. 
FRANCIS PUYAU, Nc%v Orleans, La., who re­ceived his M.D. from tlic Medical ScIiool of Louisi­ana State University in 1952, is on tlie leaching sUfT of tlic Department of Pediatrics of the Medical Scliool. He married Geraldinc dlBcncdetto in 1951, and they now have four children. He reports tliat FRANK REYES, '49, lives only a few doors from him and that RAYMOND OSTERHOLD works for Kaiser Aluminum in New Orleans. 
JACK QUINLAN, is 3 radio and tclcnsion an­nouncer on WGN, Chicago. He broadcasts the Cubs games and college football and has sports rc\-icw and disc jockey programs in the off-season. Married in 1951, he and his wife, the former Marilyn MofTatt, have three cliildren. 
E. ^VATT PYE, Denver, Colo., is sales promotion manager of tlie Rogers Publishing Co. in Engle­wood, Colo. Married in 1953, he and his ^vife Mar>' Anne have five children. 
DAVID SKORY, Mobil OH of Canada, Ltd., POB 690 Tripoli, Lib>-a, N.A., is manager of tlic company's law department. He and his wife Frances have four children. 
In cliccking tlic class roster, I was shocked to discover that D.-VN SUTOLO\^IC was one of nine class members listed as deceased and later found out that he died in November, 1958. For your information, here are tlie names of all the mem­bers of the class who are listed in the class roster as deceased: JOHN L. aVWXEY, ^^^LLUM A. GERHARD, JOHN F. GUE.\TNER, EDWARD J. LcCOUTEUR, EARL F. MULLE.X, ROBERT F. RANEY, ROBERT W. SKOGLUND, DANIEL G. SUTOLOVIC, and STANLEY T. URB.VNSKI. 
JicTc are some changes of addresses: TOM F. CONLEY, to 215 Hiilawe St., Honolulu 13, Hawaii; ARTHUR E. COUGHL/\N, to 46 Oak-tree Lane, Levittown, N. Y.; TO.\( E. COYNE, to 771 Lobos St., Montcrcj-. CaliL; LEONARD H. EICH, to Sauk City, Wis.; JAMES A. GILKER. to 3715 Free Ferry Rd., Ft. Smith, Ark.; NL\URICE 
J. HEALY, to 9308 Hoj-nc Ave, Chicago 20; JERRY HEKKER, to 170 E. 61st St., New York Cit\-; PHILIP T. HDCES, to 1056 L>-nwood, Circe­\ille, Ohio; BARTON JOHNSON, to 310 Fairhill Road, ^V>•nnewood, Pa.; TO.M B. KILDUFF, to 5617 N. Central, Chicago 46; REV. THO.MAS E. LAWTON, to Notre Dame High School, Bridge­port 4, Conn.; DR. JA-MES K. McSH.-\NE, JR., to 801 E. Ponce de Leon Blvd., Coral Gables; JAMES MELLO, to Old Point Judith Road, Narragansett, R. L; RICHARD P. MIMER, to 9838 N.E. 15th St., BeUcvuc, Wash.; JOHN A. MURPHY, to 511 E. 6th St., Mt. Car­mel, IlL; GEORGE W. 0*LAUGHLIN, to 1183 Bair Rd., N.E. North Canton, Ohio; JOSEPH F. SALISBURY, to 5110 Manning Dr., Bethesda 14, Md.; STEPHEN P. TRIXLER, to 1001 S.E. ^Vaters Ave., Portland,' Ore.; BROTHER RAPHAEL WILSON, C.S.C-, to Colmnba Hall, Notre Dame, 
58 Notre Dame Alumnus^ December^ 1959 
104 0 John Walker •^^' 826>VingSt. Elgin, HL 

From the .\lumni OIHce: 
Class Secretary JOHN WALKER hasn't lecavcd much mail, but he's been busy. See the "Spot­light" on John in this issue. Then, when you write to congratulate him, include some news about yourself and/or tlie classmates you've seen at ihc reunion or since. 
JIM BUTZ, who has been assistant director of ads and promotion for Wilson Sporting Goods, still headquarters at 807 Dresser Dr., Mt. Prospect, 111., although he's clianging jobs. Jim is joining Golf-craft, Inc., as assblant to the vice-president in cliarge of sales and marketing. Congratulations, Jim. 
Among several *49ers taking on new rcsponsibiU­ties is ALVIN C. GROSS, of Pittsburgh, marketing anal>'5t for Pittsburgh Plate Glass, ^vho has been named to handle sales forecasting for tlie glass division after a year with the company. Formerly with General Electric and tcacliing at Portland, Al is active in several eco­nomic associations, mar­ried and the father of 
^^ary .-Vnn, 7, and DaWd, 3. 
Another is BOB LeMAY, who joined the Clii­cago sales staff of Synthanc Corp., industrial plastic manufacturer. A Jaycce, Bob was formerly ^rith Sterling Sales. 
Finally, E. G. "JERRY** OL\\'ELL, JR., was ap­pointed general manager of the Rich-Taste Corp. early this year. Jerry's firm distributes instant lajfTec and tea, vitami­nized chocolate syrup throughout the East. He came to the company viz Kroger and Canada, where he directed mer­cliandisins for Dominion Dairies, Ltd., and lec­tured in marketing at Sir 

George ^\^lliams College. Promoted shortly after Joining the Flushing, N. Y., firm, Jerry is directing the introduction of several new products and the expansion of Rich-Taste into Midwest markets. 
10 YEAR REUNION Class of '50 
JUNE 10-11-12 

195 0 ^'ch^<^ ^' ^3^ 
47 Emerson Rd. 
Glen Rock, N. J. 

Much as I abhor tlie bad form of obsequcously beginning a column %vith an apology and an ex­planation, that is what I must do. The apology is for the lateness of the class notes in this issue of the ALUMNUS. The explanation is very simple. Despair caught up wiili me and silenced my i>*pe­writer. You sec, the deadline for tlic next issue of the ALUMNUS occurs before the prior one is received in your homes. I'd been hanging on the ropes all summer with the dearth of mail my column brought. The deadline of September I came and went and, frankly, I didn't give a tuppence. Then the ray of hope returned when a few good souls finally responded with letters. Perhaps I've missed the deadline, but whenever tliis sees the light of print I send my heartfelt thanks to JOHN ALVEREZ, FRANK McBRIDE, BILL BRADLEY, .MARGE HELLINGHAUSEN, JA-MES ENGEL and JERRY TERHAAR. You arc tlie ones who make tliis column possible and have rekindled my spirit for the endeavor. 
JOHN ALVEREZ, *48, dropped us a line last summer looking for DON MURPHY's address out in Phoenix. He planned to xisit there last August and hoped to get in toucli with ^furplt. Hope tliej* were able to make connections. 
About himself John writes, *'four years ago 1 travelled west after getting my M.B.A. at Harvard, where I enrolled after being back in the Na(| for two years during Korea. Didn't learn my lesson and am still in the reser\'es, a LCDR. 
"I've been witli Kaiser steel since coming to San Francisco, in tlic Commercial Research department. I drive across the bay to Oakland every day. The longer I live in S.F. the less likely I am to even think of living anywhere else. As I'm still a bachelor I can make that statement with consider­able conviction, at the moment anj'way." 
What is tliere about tliat city that leads to such statements? Seems like ever>'onc who has ever been there falls in love with the place. John's address incidcntly is 2823 Baker Street, San Fran­cisco 23, Calif. 
FR^\NK McBRIDE, '50, is with the Ohio Me(^ and Manufacturing Co. in Dayton, I gatlier, for along with a nice note he sent us the house publication The Ga]\'an Rite Angle. It contained a little gem that makes me feel like I'm no longer young for it seems to express our way of life to a tee. "Middle age is the time of life when your idea of getting aliead is to stay even." I guess feeding and clothing five kids uill make anyone feel middle aged. But .. . I digress. 
Frank writes, "after three years of marriage we were blessed with an 8 lb. baby daughter August 21. Wc named her Eileen Marie ^IcBride. This is our first child. I played golf with PAUL HORNUNG in July at Dayton Country- Club. CY LAUGHT ^ of the Laughter Corp. in Dayton had him in to\ ^ to address some cub scouts at one of the clmrclics. He told me he now represents a public relations Arm out of Chicago and East Lansing. He looked in fine shape. 
"DR. LOU ILVLEY, also of our '50 class, is building a new medical clinic on Far Hills .Ave. in Dayton. It probably will not be ready until early I960. That's about all the news from Dayton for now." 
Next • came a very long and interesting letter from BILL BR^\DLEY, '50. 
"Tlie needle you mentioned in the September is­sue of the ALUSlNUS readied me. Since I've been remiss in this respect for nine years, I'd better bring you up to date. CT 
"Wliile still in the Na\-\% in 1951, I married Jinny Logan (St. Mar>''s, '50) the daughter of JIM LOG/\N, *18. Wc now have four sons and one saint. Tlie sons are Christopher James, 7; Thomas Edward, 6; Midiacl Joseph, 4; and John Patrick, 2. Sounds like an I.R.A. cell, doesn*t it? The saint is Marj- Clare, who was born on May 29 (the feast of St. Mar\' ^fagdclcn del Pazzi) and ^^-as buried on August 12 (the feast of St. Clare). You see that God has provided us with our own holy year in 1959, to give us a special mediatrix before his tlirone. 
"After my Navy hitch, we settled here in Denver. For the past year I've liad an extremely interest­ing job, superx'ising the handling of matcriab us^ i in building the Titan ICBM for the Glenn ](B Martin Co. A strange career for a journalism major? Not entirely. . . . I'm the unofficial proof and copy reader for all reports in my department. 
"Extracurricular activities are pretty well ex­clusively concerned with being Deputy Grand Knight and Catholic Activities Chairman of a new council. Bishop Marchebcuf, No. 4647 of the K. of C. Jinny is president of the Denver St. Mary's club. 
"Jinny and I are both determined to figure out a way to get back for our 10th reunions next year. (Secy, note: Try hard 'cause it is really worth it!) AVc'rc atudous to sec sucli old friends as Mary and JACK McHALE, RUSS SKALL, Mar>- Pat anA SPARKY THORNTON and SKIP SCHULTHEl^ and so many others." 
The following is the paragraph that warmed the cockles of me heart. "Whoops! Jinny just informed me tliat I should be addressing this to Mrs. Hahn. I should have had her write this. 
"Time to stop and root for the White Sox. Sorry I rambled around so mudi. I hope Profs. TOM STRFTCH and JIM AVITHEY don't sec this!" 
Bill's address is 2250 Birch, Denver 7, Colorado. "Wliy don't some of you old cronies he mentioned get on the bandwagon and encourage tliem in their attempt to get back for the 10th reunion this June. 
Anotlter wife took cognizance of my plight and^ wrote herself \vith news about the DAN HEIJ^^ LINGHAUSEN dan. Marge wTJtes, "You'll never bdievc hotv many times I've been going to write to you. But your second column in today's ALUMNUS really spurred me on. Dan sa>'s he has 
communicated with Dick once in the past nine ^irs . I don't know when that \v*a5 so I'll begin TK the beginning. Vfc were married in Fcbruar>­*54, Our small fry now number four: Mary, 4; Micliacl, 3; Ann, 2, and Jane, 1. I had graduated from St. Mar>'*s in *53 and Dan and I met at the wedding of DICK CULLEN, M9, and Muriel Flanagan, my roommate at St. Mary's. We have lived right here in Breckinridge (Texas) ever since. It is a nice little tou'n of seven thousand iWth about one hundred Catholics. 
"We see the Cullcns several times a year. They live at Victoria where Dick is practicing law. They have four children too, Kevin, Terry, Kathleen and Colecn. 
"In Ft. Worth we see the PHIL RECORDS, '50. J||tt married Pat Edwards of Ft. Worth and they STve two children, the younger of xvhich is our godchild. Phil writes for the Ft. Worth Star-Telegram, 
"You mentioned that you went to New Rochelle. I may have a surprise for you. A classmate of Dan's in Ft. Worth, TOMMY O'NEIL is married to a New RochcUc alumnus named Gabricllc . . . but I don't know her last name. She is from New York and the loveliest person. They have five beautiful little bo>-s and are expecting a sixth in December, I think. I hope you knou* her because things like that are so exiting, small world and all that." 
As secretary I must interrupt here ^farge and ^ I you that Gabrielle McCarthy O'Neil was a ^ssmate of mine at CNR and I'm delighted for 
the neu-s of Iicr. We mooned homeward together a couple of times on the Pacemaker after **wonder­ful week ends" at N.D. It is a small world, n'est-ce pas? 
"Dan plans to attend his tenth reunion next year and maybe I'll get to my seventh. 
''I do hope you will hear from some other class of *50 members or wives. You sounded so dis­couraged. (I was!) But I think >-ou are doing a grand job." Tlianks for the kind words and the letter. x\nd be sure to talk the boys into electing a new sccrctar\' at the reunion in June because we are expecting number six in March and I frankly *gvc too many diapers to change to keep up the 

^o d work. 
JIM ENGEL, '50, sent us a darling photo of his handsome family that perhaps Herr Editor can find a spot to print it. Jim is employed as a resin chemist in the research laboratories of Archer Daniels Midland Co. in Minneapolis. He says tliat they are quite happy to be there inasmuch as it is home town for both him and his wife, Virginia. 
Last comes a cute note from JERRY TERH/V^\R reading "accept my congratulations on . . . your girl Friday. . . . Best she taper off a bit or find herself re-elccicd in next June.'* (Don't you dare!) 
"As a displaced prc-mcd, I have been engaged in the real estate brokerage b\isincss since gradua­tion. For the past tlirec years now, I have cavorted 

^^out in business for myself. "With the arri\-al, October 28, of our newest addition, Tom, Sally and I have managed to field a 'representative team' which includes Jerr>* III, Ned and Mar>' Francis. 
"Our Xotre Dame Club here in Buffalo is an extremely active one. (Do you happen to know a JACK EXDERS up there, Jcrn? IE so say hi from his sister's old college chum, Kuge.) Con­sequently we see many of the 'old grads* frequently. Had the pleasure of talking with FATHER JOE B.VRRY at the September meeting. 

"Had a letter from BILL HESSERT, '49, last ^eck . Tliough still ver\' much the gay bachelor, ^^U now is the proud possessor of a 3-bctlroom, 
2-bath rancli, and has become an 'avid gardener.' Somehow, I can't picture it. Bill's new address is: 113 Antietam Road, Barclay Farm, Haddonficid, New Jersey." 
To wind this up Iicre are the addresses for the contributors that I neglected to add before. Frank McBridc's business address is c/o Ohio Metal & Mfg. Co., 300 K. Findlay St., Dayton 3. Ohio. The Hellinghausen's live at 403 N. Easton, Brcken­ridge, Texas. James J. Engcl is residing at 2318 Erican Drive, Minneapolis 12, Minn. And you can write to Jerry Tcrhaar at 85 Park Ledge Drive, Snyder 26, Xew York, Remember now is the time to get on the ball and start contacting the gang to 

^ak c reunion plans. 
One last thing before I sign off. I am extremely Imrt that my name was excluded from the invita­tion to attend the class secretary meeting at the University in January. Discrimination and prejudice is what I call it! 
From the Aiumni Office: 
(Ed. Note: Sony, Mrs. H., but it would be a 
little difficult to accommodate you at a stag con­
ference — unless you'd be willing to step oat of 
a cake or something. J.L.) 
VAL REISIG brings himself up-to-date thus: 
"I am now assistant advertising manager for East­
man Chemical Products, Inc., 260 Madison Ave., 
New York City. Finally found the *right gJrl* in 
Danville, Pa. and married her last May. Since her 
name was Ann Rooney I had no trouble conxindng 
her on sending future Reisigs to N.D." 
ADRIAN PAUL DEBEVEC and his wife Laura Grace are at Thunderbird Field, Phoenix, where Adrian is studying at the American Institute for 
Foreign Trade. 
R/\Y FAGAN has been 
appointed director of 
public relations for the 
Schering Corporation, 
pharmaceutical research 
and manufacturing lab­
oratory. A member of 
Schering's public relations 
department since its or­
ganization in 1953, he 
joined the firm's manage­
ment research staff in 
1954 after seizing as a 
Marine lieutenant in 
Korea and taking post­
graduate work in journalism at Stanford. Ray, his 
wife Mary Ellen and their five children live in 
Colonia, N. J. 
Another man with five cliildren is ROBERT EDWARD ILVRRIS, who has joined Knolls iVtomic Lab in Sclicncctady, N. Y., as an engineer on the nuclear propulsion sj-stcm for the first atomic de­stroyer, the missile frigate Balnbridge. Bob came from another General Electric project in Cincin­nati, where he worked on high energy fuels for flight propulsion, and originally from Curtis Wright. The Harrises live in Ballston Lake, X. Y. 
JOHN B. PAL.MER, JR., has been promoted from a credit department staff assistant to Xorthem Division credit manager for Central Sa>-a Co., Inc. Owner of B.S. and 
LL.B.
 degrees from N.D. in the same year, John took his G.A.P. certificate and passed the Indiana Bar in 1953. He has been with Central So\-a since 1954. 

J.
 SPENCER DALY has joined Monsanto Chemi­cal Company's patent department at St. Louis, Mo., after ser\*ing w-ith the Borden Company in New-York City, 


THOM.AS NL O'GR^VDY, research chemical engineer at the Whiting lab of Standard Oil (Indi­ana), addressed the September meeting of the American Chemical Sodety in Atlantic City on tlie rearrangement of atoms in petroleum molecules to form more valuable products. Tom and his wife live in Chicago Heights, 111. 
The I4th edition of American Men of Science will indude the name of DR. JAMES J. aVRBERRY, research engineer for duPont, who followed his bachelor's and master's degrees at Notre Dame with a doctorate in chemical engineering at Yale while there on a teaching assignment. x\nother noteworthy item Is Jim's September wedding to Judith .Ann Bower of Wilmington, Del., a duPont chemist. 
1951 Robert J. Klingenbcrgcr 
•'^ ' 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. Wayne, Ind. 
JOHN O. CORCORxVN's new address is 3220 
W. Sierra \^ta . Phoenix, Arizona. John has written and announced the birth of Daniel Joseph, bom November 7, 1958. They have two boys and three girls. 
JOE LAUBER (5486 E. Jamison Street, Fort Knox, Ky.) Is just completing a two-year general practice residency and is now going to Pine Bluff Arsenal in Arkansas for two years. Joe is married and has two children. 
Fellows, I know you'll remember GENE KENNY who died on August 2, 1959. 
Also aVPTAIN R. L. WARD, while taking off when flying with the Illinois Air National. Guard on June 7, 1959, crashed and his plane'burst'into' flames. Let us all remember him in our prayers. 

An announcement from BILL ^VHITESIDE and Eileen on the Birth of Richard Fcrrick on August 3, 1959. Congratulations, Bill and Eileen. 
JOHN HALEY has recently moved to Fort Wayne and is in the securities business with Merril Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith. 
AL AVARD also of Fort \Vaync has recently completed all of his Certified Public Accountant exams. 
TOM LOGAN this year became a partner with the legal firm of Rothberg, Gallmeyer, Docrmer and Strutz. 
BUD POWERS was married to Marilyn Dolores Friel at Notre Dame on June 27, 1959. Congratu­lations and best wishes to both of you. 
FATHER MICHAEL J. BRANSFIELD, now a MaryknoU Missioner, said his first Mass on June 21, 1959 in GIen\*icw, Illinois. Father is now in lan­guages in Seoul, Korea, and hopes that any dass­mates in Seoul, or anyone who may get there, will please look him up. 
DICK KOSMICKI this stunmer co-authored a series of television plays based on the files of the New Jersey State Police. Prior to this time, Dick was reporter tor the Harrisburg Ei'ening News, and assistant to the advertising and public relations director for Dictaphone Corp. in New York City, and an assistant to Father James Keller, founder and director of the Christophers. 
KEN THOREN (256 Central Ave., Rye, New York) is now with Kndner Agency, Inc., 575 Madi­son Avenue, New York City. Ken had some news: JACK YOUNG is still in Erie, Pa,, has two girls, and is still in the PhUco Distributing business, TON! WOLF is married, has one daughter, and is an Engineer xrith Gilbert Assodates in Redding, Pa. BILL HOSCHEIDT and Mary Ann have one boy and two girls, and is in the Department Store business. DON BARTNETT is married, has two girls, and is with the Shell Oil Company. JACK O'BRIEN is a sales en^ncer with Padfic Valve and is married. JACK MURRY is a lawyer and still a bachelor. BILL DRISKILL is married and Is a TV Screen Writer. 
\TNCE STE. iURI E (1411 N. Cyndale Drive, Appleton, Wisconsin) UTOte that after getting mar­ried and scrying two years in the Army, he is back in Appleton, Wisconsin, and coaching at St. Mary's School. Last season his football team and J.V. basketball team went undefeated. The football rec­ord u-as repeated this year. He has two boys. Continued good luck, Vince. 
DICK MacDON.\LD and Joey have just moved into a new home In Lafayette, Indiana at 1005 Highland and also had a new son, Robert Joseph, in September. 
Saw BILL COOXEY while in ^V'ashinglon, D. C , where he Is now an assistant U.S. attorney and still a badiclor. 
JOE EUSTER,\L\N, M.D. (824 lO/j St., S.W., Rochester, Minn.), who left X.D. in June '49, is now a resident in internal medtcinc at Mayo Clinic. Joe is married to the former itar>' Shaffer of Rochester and the College of St. Catherine. He said he would enjoy hearing from ED FITZGERJVLD, BOB EXCEL, BILL H.\RT\' and R.\XDY MeCALLY. 
A SUGGESTION: We should, as a doss, have a little fund with which to have Masses said for our deceased classmates. If you agree, please let me hear from you. The Masses will be said at Notre Dame. 
From the Alumni Office: A footnote on the tragic death of GENE KENNY, former basketball coach of Bcllarmine College, Flaget High and St. Joe Prep in the Louisville, Ky., area, a month after an automobile acddcnt put him into a coma: the three schools, backed by the N.D. Club of Kentucky and the Catholic School Athletic /\ssn., drculatcd an ap­peal for the Gene Kenny Fund, to help Gene's ex­pecting wife, Ruth, and three tots, Kerin (7), Gene (5) and Jimmy (3). Gene was buried in Brooklyn from St. Agnes Church Aug. 5. 
A retraction is in order for the bride of BUD POWERS, the former Maril>-n Dolores Friel. The caption under the nuptial picture last issue said that Lyn is a Mar^-mbunt College grad, which is like saying a .Princetonian is from Yale. Actually Lyn attended Trinity and is a graduate of Georgian Court College. 
Congratulations to ROBERT P. McGRATH, re-

Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 59 
cently promoted to product manager by Roche Labonuorics ia New Jersey. Following up his bacheIor*s with an M.B.A. from Rutgers, Bob managed marketing rcscarcli for C. D. Smith Pfiarmacal before coming to Hoffman-La Roche in 1938 as marketing analvst. He lives in Bloom­field, N. J. 
Legal briefs include notes on EDWARD S. HAGERTV and JAMES E. McLAUGHLLX. Ed has formed a partnership, Hagcrty and Hanson, in Minneapolis, while Jim is a partner in ifc-Ardle, Harrington & McLaughlin, specializing in trial and appellate practice in Pitt^urgh, Pa. 
1 952 Harry L. Buch 
• ^^ ^ 600 Board of Trade BIdg. Wiecling, W. Va. 

FRANK A. LINK, J530 WIIou- Drive, Sandusky, Ohio, works for .•Uuminum & ^fagncsium Inc., as assistant director of personnel; still single. SOM­MERS T. BROWTf, 3000 Connecticut Ave., K.W., Washington 8, D.C., graduated Georgetown Law School; still single. WILLIAM B. GRAHAM, JR., 57 North Somer\-ine, Memphis 4, Tcnn., A%'orks for Procter £: Gamble Distributing Co. as zone manager; still single. 
JLM ETLING, 205 Beacon Place, Munsier, Ind., member ol the accounting firm, Etling & Etling, Hammond, Ind., was married Oct. 23, 1954 and has four dilldren. A. JOSEPH ADAMS, 333 S. Sullii'an St., Gar)*, Ind., works for Inland Steel Co. as industrial engineer and instructor at Purdue University, was married Sept. 1, 1951 and has three cliildren. FRANK KING, 713 Shawnee Drive, Charlotte 9, North Carolina; works as salesman for ^linn. ^lining & Mfg. Co.; was transferred fay company from St. Paul, Minn, in Nov. 1956; mar­ried Nov, 26, 1955 and father of two children. 
JOHN H. GUISE, Delmor, Iowa, serxcs as vice president and treasurer of Delmore Grain & Feed Co., Inc.; married June 23, 1956 and has two children. JOHN C. WELSH, JR., R.D. Ko. 2, Catskill, New York; associated with Friedman, Welsh & Battisti, atiorne>-s; professor of law; graduated Albany Law School; married Dec 27, 1958. NORBERT J. GANOBSIK, 34370 Puth Drive. Avon, Ohio; works as electrical engineer for Cleveland Electric 111, Co.; married Dec. 26, 1951; father of three clitldrcn. 
THOMAS J. VERBIEST, 4135 Haverhill, Detroit 24, Mich.; vice president, C. M. Verbiest & .•\ssoc. Insurance Agcnc^-; married April 23, 1955, father of three children. JOHN P. MORAN, 189 Moorewood .Ave., Cleveland 15, Ohio; sales man­ager for Procter & Gamble Dist. Co.; married Sept. 13, 1952, and has three children. FRANK 
J. SEMEIKO, 1515 Gould Rd., Toledo 12, Ohio; works as commercial service engineer, Tlie Ohio Bell Telephone Co.; married July 3, 1954, father of nrin girls, bom Feb. 4. 1956, and twin bo\'s, Jan. 18, 1957. REV. LEANDE BLUMLEIN, O.F.M., Duns Scotus College, Nine ^file at Evergreen, Detroit 41, Midi.; teadiing English literature, four years college course. 
DON NESPO, 2419 Eisenhower Drive, South Bend, Indiana, graduated 1957 for ^LA. Fine Arts at Notre Dame; works as project engineer, U.S. Rubber Co., Mishawaka, Ind.; married Aug. 28, 1954, two children and another due in Dec JOSEPH 
F. ALBERS, Jr., 1312 Samoa Drive, Crcstwood 26, Missouri; MBA, St. Louis Univ.; manager, engi­neering, subcontracting for McDonnell Aircraft Corp.; married Jan. 29, 1955. L. NICHOI^S MUELHAUPT, 1616 N. Vermilion St., Apt. No. 1, Dan^-illc, III.; brancli manager, Commtrrial Credit Corp., (a major sales finance co.); still single. 
L. iL\TTHEU DUGG/VN, JR., 33 Allenhurst Rd., Buffalo, N. v.; metallurgical sales engineer for Volcan Sleam. Forging Co.; married Aug. 13, 1955, has one cliild. JOHN F. O'CONNELL, JR., 10737 So. Lawler, Oak Lawn, III.; attends Northwestern University, night classes; insurance salesman for James S. Kemper & Co.; married Oct. 10, 1959. JOSEPH FRANCIS MORRIS, 7209 E. 17th St., Indianapolis 19, Ind.; accountant and credit man­ager of building material supply for Spickclmier Industries Inc; married Nov. 26, 1953, and has two children. 
J. ROGER 0*HARA, 20979 Ellacott Pk^^y., War­rensrille Hts. 28, Ohio; Ferroalloy sales for Union Carbide Metals Co.; married Oct. 4, 1958; expecting first clilld in September. JOSEPH A. COSTELLO, 521 Winston Lane, Chicago Heights, III., salesman (wholesale liquor) lor Chicago Hts. Distributing Co.; married June 8, 1952; and has three children. JOSEPH H. STENGELE, 1005 AVesiem Ave., 
WILLIAM J. SHEA, '48 
From Amiy Annor, an Armour's Star 

Bill Shea was appointed director of per­sonnel for Armour & Company early this year and is responsible for the development and application of all the meat packing firm's personnel programs. 
A native of E\*anston, III., and son of the late William J. Shea, Sr., '15, Bill en­tered Notre Dame in 1939, but his studies were interrupted by a four-year Army hitch which punnily presaged his future. As­signed to an armor division, he emerged a tank officer and returned to N.D. with the Class of '48 for an A.B. in economics. 
Joining Sears, Roebuck & Co. in 1948, Bill had \*arious personnel and labor rela­tions assignments in the company's manu­facturing, merchandising and headquarters operations. In 1953 he received an M.B.A. degree from the University of Chicago after much after-hour effort in the E,\ecutive program, an evening course for businessmen. He moved to Armour in 1956 and man­aged personnel in the chemical, ammonia, adhesives, soap, cushioning products and coated abrasives divisions before becoming personnel chief. 
Bill is married to the former Elaine Rotherrael of Kenihvorth, III. With three children and expecting a fourth, they re­side at 2125 Washington Av., Wilmette, 
III. The Sheas have been active in the Christian Family Movement as action group leaders and section leader couple for St. Joseph's Parish, Wilmette. 
Joliet, III.; attended Regis College, Denver, Colo­rado, *48-'49; tlien Notre Dame; vice president, Joliet \Varehousc &. Transfer Co.; married Nov. 1952 and has four diildrcn. 
RICHARD G. MURPHY, 4207 4Ist St., Des Moines, Iowa, controller of Ford parts depot for Ford Motor Co.; married and has three children. DON F. STARK, 4961 North Newhall St., Mil­\f3ukee 17, AVis.; LL.B. Marquette Univ. Law School; C.P.A., tax dcpt. for Touche, Niven, BoiIe>' & Smart; married Sept. 1957; one son, sec­ond child expected in September. JAMES £. HAMMER, 3707 Grand Ave, Des Moines, Io%^ sales representative, J. E. Hammer Rolscreen COTJ' married June, 1958, Log Chapel, Notre Dame; has one daughter. 
EDWIN (NED) L. RYiVN, JR., 1241 Jarvis Ave., Chicago 26, III.; Juris Doc, Dc Paul Uni­versity, Chicago, III.; lawj'er for Chicago Rock Island & Pacific Railroad Co.; married Sept., 1957. DONALD E. KOTOSKE, 432 Marquette Ave.. South Bend. Ind., professional sales representative for Eaton Laboratories in charge of sales for No. Indiana and So. Michigan; married 1953 and has two children. PAUL MA2ZA, 1906 Park Forest .\vc.. State College, Pa., graduate Har\-ard Law Sdiool; employed as la\\-\-er For Willard, Duna^vay & Mazza, attorneys; married 1954 and has thivi children. ^ty 
PETER E. SKERRETF, 4952 Justin Rd., Colum­bus 13, Ohio; works as aircraft acrodynamicist for North American Ariation Inc.; married Oct.. 1952 and has three diildren. BRO. DANIEL E. SHARPE, S.M., 1201 W. Becher, Milwakucc 15, Wis.; principal, Don Bosco High School; attended University of Dayton, Mexico Citv CoUcsc. Loyola (Chicago), ^farquettc. JOHN W. L.-\NGE (JACK), 3070 Ardoon ^Vay, Cux-ahoga Falls, Oliio; personnel director of metal stamping plant. Falls Stamping and Welding Co.; married Dec, 1951; lias ibrce children. 
C\RL L. &\RLSSON, 18441 Cowing Court, Homcwood, 111.; M.S. University of Illinois; manactftv and chief engineer for Calumet Flexicorc Cor^ff married Aug. 1957 and has one son. BOB FRUIN, 8625 University Ave. Wilting, Ind.; M.S. degree in chemistr>', Loyola University; project chemist for Standard OH Co.; married Feb. 1955 and has three diildren. JOHN T. L.\NAH/\N, 715 S. Delphia, Park Ridge, III.; master's degree in patent law, John Marshall Law School, Chicago, III., trade­mark counsel for Borg-Wamer Corp.; married .\ug., 1948, has three diildren. 
CHARLES E. SCHAEFFER, 7516 N. Hoyne .Ave., Chicago 45, 111.; MBA (finance) University o! Chicago; securities analyst in trust department for Continental Illinois National Bank & Trust Co.; still single. JAMES J. HERR, 309 West Moulton, Pontiac, III.; attorney for Adsit, Thompson. H<i«^ & Struck; public defender for Livingston Countv^ III.; married June 1959. ALBERT G. LASSUY, Box 268, Odell, III.; sodologist-criminologist, Illi­nois Slate Penitentlarv- System; married 1944, and has seven children. JOHN PLOUFF, 2016 Lewis St., Marinette, Wis.; furniture buyer. Globe House Furnishing Co., Inc.; married and has two children. 
JAMES STABILE, 2226 Homer Ave. Tlie Bronx 72, New York; project engineer (design and de­velopment of missile components) for Bulo\-a Rc­seardi & Development Labs. Inc.; still single. GEORGE W7LLIAM BR^VDY, No. 4 Hickory- Rd., Hamilton Park, Muncic. Ind.; attorney at law: general practice with Brady & Brady law firm; married June 1945, has one son. JERRY COSTELr, LO, 29 Washburn Rd., Pompton Plains, Nt*© Jersey; grad School of Communication Arts. Ford­ham University, Editor of two newspapers. Trends Publications; married Dec, 1954; two children. 
LOUIS B. GATIPPO, 1650 Narragansett Ave., Chicago, 111.; Dc Paul Law (*52-'55) J.D.; assistant state's attorney of Cook County — assigned to Nar­cotics Court in Chicago; still single. EUGENE M. RILEY, 3W Bell-Air Apt. No. 3; Burlington, Iowa; lumber brokers, rice president, sales representative for Big River Lumber Co., Inc. (brothcr-In-law and self in business together); married Oct. 19. 1957; one son. JOSEPH R. PEROZZI, 430 .-Vrquilla Drive, Chicago Hdghts, 111.; 1952-55 LL.B. Unir versity of Illinois; partner in law firm of McGrat^ & Pcrozzi; still single. 
JACK (JOHN R.) QUETSEH, 1603 Nealon Dr., Falls Church, Virginia; supervisory budget officer, assistant head, maintenance budget bnindi, bureau of Ships, Naw Dept.; married June 8, 1953: has tlirec box's. G. THOMAS TR^VNTER, 743 West Clinton St., Elmira, New York; presently teaching one course in Finance at Elmira College evening dirision; rice president of Rockwell-Gould Co., Inc. (investment firm); married Sept. 5, 1953; two sons. 
REV. JA.MES C, FAHEY, C.S.C., Saint Ed­ward's University, Austin 4, Texas; chaplain and teaching at above university; attended Holy Cross College, theoIog>- house of C.S.C., Washington, 
D. C ; also some summer courses at Notre Dan^^ ROBERT JOSEPH POLACEK, 42 W-LcsUf Lane, Villa Park, 111.; 1946-M9 — B.S, St. Mary's College, Winona, Minn.; technical sales represent­ative for Cclanesc Corp. of America; married June 25, 1949; father of five children. DOMENIC A. 
60 Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 2959 
NARDUCCI, JR., 44 Beacon Nfanor Road, Xauga­^ck , Conn.; industrial instrumentation (indicators, Vcordcrs) and group leader — in charge of the 
product design and development of electrical mcasur­ing instruments and ser^'os for The Bristol Com­pany; married Oct. 16, 1954; has three children. 
BILL (U1LLL\M F.) DEL/VNEY, stationed at Cleveland 6, Ohio, AF ROTC Det. No. 625; Capt, USAF, has been an AFROTC instructor for past ^Vi yrs; will leave for ncu- assignment in Japan shortly; married June 5, 1954; has three children. BYRON BOJI, 262 South Water St., New Hampton, Iowa; internal auditor for U. S. Dcpt. of Agri­culture; married Feb. 11. 1956; has one son. THOMAS R. HELLMICH, 106 E. Hillenbrand Ave, Batesvillc, Ind.; sales representative for Bates-ville Casket Co,-, married Nov. 19, 1954; has one 
^ughter. 
JIM .MUTSCHELLER, 1526 Grecndale Rd., Bal­timore 18, Md.; pro football plavcr, Balti­more Colts football team; and life insurance agent for National Life Insurance Co. of Montpelicr, Vermont; married Jan. 14, 1956; has two sons, JOHN "DUKE" VALLELV, 1214 4th .Ue., East, WilUston, No. Dakota; sales manager, heavy duty truck and trailer sales for Westland Oil Company; married Nov. 9, 1953; has three children. JACK BRADSH/VW*, 1308 N. Drexel Ave.. Indianapolis, Ind.; lawyer for McHale, Cook, Welsh & Mc­Kinney; U.S. Na\-y, 1955-57; still single. 
DONALD JOSEPH STR.\SSER, 191 W. Han.-ard, Elmhurst, III.; ph>'sical education teacher, coach of 
^Psketball, assistant football coach, and golf coach lor Immaculate Conception High School; married June 4, 1955 and has three children. LOUIS J, BARILLA, 6405 Ballej'o Court, N., Jacksonnllc 10, Florida; maintaining engineering cognitancc of overhaul and repair procedures on military aircraft engines for the overhaul and repair dcpt. at the Na^'al Air Station; married June 2, 1936; one son and another child due in October. EDWARD J. COFFEY, 302 Retford Ave., Staten Island, N. Y.; master's degree in business administration, New York University in June, 1959; sales engineer for General Cable Corp.; married Oct. 24, 1954, has one son. 
EDWARD F. FOLEY, 36-33 172d St., Flushing, Long Island, New York; special agent, F.B.I., since fi/30/52; married Nov. 28, 1953, has three cliildren. 
WARD P. (PETE) GOFFINET, JR., 6205 Six 

t
c Lane, Louisville 7, Kentucky; two years in Army Intelligence; research and development engi­neer for E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co.; married Feb. 23, 1953; has two daughters. JLM MANNION, 7208 Fors>the, University City, Missouri; 9/1/52­6/1/55, St. Louis University Law School LL.B.; labor relation assistant for FalstafT Brewing Corp.; married Aug. 30, 1955; has three children. 
JOHN (JACK) E. MUELLER, 807 Huntington Road, Louisville, Ky.; office manager of Floor Cov­ering Distributors Inc., spent two • years in ser^'ice, discharged as corporal; still single. JOHN B. BOWLBY, 21 Prewster Ave., La Grange Park, III., office manager of Royal-Globe Insurance Group; 
jaarricd Sept. 7, 1951 and has five children. FRAN­
K S J. VFTELLI, 42 Stelncr Place, North Plain­field, New Jersey; package store manager for Green-brook Bottling Co.; married Jan. 12, 1957; has one daughter. 
JOHN P. HARRINGTON, 65 Mayo Road, Wcl­lesley. Mass.; agcnc>' super\-isor for John Han­cock Mut. Life Ins. Co.; married June 28, 1952: has two children. Px\UL L DxWiS, 29 Brevoort Road, Columbus 14, Ohio; M.A. Notre Dame. 1954; is working on Ph.D. at Loyola University where he is an instructor in histor>'; (6525 N. Sheridan Rd., Chicago 26, HL); military ser\-ice in Germanv Sept. 1954 to Sept. 1956; still single. JOSEPH S. BOWLING, 1627 Richmond Drive, 
^^uisvillc 5, Kentucky; attended University of i^ouisvillc Law School, 1952-1953; roofing contractor, Joseph S. Bowling Co., Inc.; married .Aug. I, 1953; has four children. 
BROTHER JOHN QUINN, F.S.C., A.B., La Salle, 1937; M.S. Catholic U. 1942; Ph.D. Catholic 
U. 1946; presently vice president and dean of La Salle College, Philadelphia 41, PennsvK-ania. PAUL J. SHLICHTA, 1307 Cedaredge Ave., Los Angeles 41, Calif.; Ph.D. (chemistry, physics and gcologj*) Calif. Institute of Tech. 1956; senior re­search engineer for Jet Propulsion Laboratory-, Calif, Institute of Technology; still single. REV. THOM.\S MCCAFFREY KIRBY. 3609 Superior Ave., Homestead Park, PcnnsyK-ania; ordained from St> Vincent Seminary, Latrobe, Pcnn., May 25, 
^P)7; appointed Chaplain of Pittsburgh X.D. Club; and Serves as priest of Diocese of Pittsburgh. 
ROBERT E. \VEIGAND. 801 Wabash Ave., Mat­toon, III.; M.S. University of Illinois, 1956; teacher, formerly at Illinois, now at De Paul University; still single. JOHN (JACK) P. LONG, RJ) . No. 2-30, Dover, New Jersey; attended Rutgers Uni­versity one year on M.B.A. in Marketing; marketing personnel manager for ^(axwell House Division, General Foods Corp.; married May 15, 1954, and has three children. JOSEPH F. GULDE, 2005 Julian Blvd., Amarillo, Texas; scr\-ed in Ci\il Engi­neers Corp. of Navy, 1952-1954; Vice President and General Manager of Crowe-Guide Cement Co.; still single. 
From the Alumni Office: 
On the move: TOM SOULES, from employment manager of IBM's Burlington, Vt., plant to ad­ministrative assistant for personnel back in Pough­keepsle, N. Y. (Tom and wife Joan have three sons); TO.M GRIFFITH, from Buffalo, N. Y., to home office sales for Central Soya, Fort Wayne, Ind.; JIM UHL, now a full partner in Downing, Smith, Prince Jorgensen &, Uhl, Decatur, III., at­torneys, and Yale lawyer BILL DEMPSEY, now a clerk for Chief Justice Earl Warren. Congratula­tions, men. 
August grads: ERNEST R. HANNA, JR., a Ph.D. from Rochester in cliemistry; LOUIS E. REIG, a Ph.D. from Pittsburgh; ARTHUR A. SCHULTE, JR., and Denver lawyer CARL F. EIBERGER, JR., both with JLB.A. degrees from Denver. Carl now lives at I7I5 Willow Way, Golden, Colo. 
1 053 Thomas W. Reedy 
•'**"* 337 Wagner Rd. NorthEeld, BL 

From the Alumni Office: 
BOB WAGNER picked up a master's degree In literature at the University of Pittsburgh last sum­mer, while DR. DICK 0*LE/\RY has been ap­pointed to the house staff of George Washington University Hospital, Washington, D.C, for the current academic year. 
JOHN TUBERTY is fortifying his airplane engi­neering with a course in Latin ;\merican business at the .'Vmerlcan Institute for Foreign Trade, Phoenix, .•\riz. 
Many classmates probably recognized one of the pri\'ate eyes in the growing roster of specific locale series on television. As Dennis Morgan's legal eagle on "21 Beacon Street" BRIAN KELLY had some real life background at the Unlvcrsitv of Michigan law school. Brian's dad, HARRY F.' KELLY, »17, was, among many other things, governor of ^Itch­igan and president of the N.D. Alumni Association. 
T0\ [ EMMA has opened an architecture office at 830 South Tliird Street, St. Charies, 111. 
Marine Lt. Rich Hohman, '54, is raising quite a crop of little Hawaiians while su­pervising maintenance at Kaneohe Air Station in the 50th state. Aloha to Richie, Susie, Howie and Frank. 
REV. DANIEL CAR. TER. O.P. has been as­signed to the foreign mis­sions in Nigeria, British West Africa, He left Newr York Oct. 1 by Pan Am and intended to stop in Rome for an audience with the Holy Father, Pope John XXIII, before reporting to the Sokoto Prefecture, North Nigeria, B.W.A- Father Carter would appreciate the pray^ ers of his classmates for 

the success of his African apostolate. CLAIR TRINKLEY has been writing procure­ment Contracts for the Air Force Ballistic Missiles Center at Inglewood, Calif., and recently received a cash award for sustained superior performance. Formerly in cinl service at Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio, Clair now lives at 3906 W. lllth St., Ingle­wood, and works on such missiles as Atlas, Titan, Thor, Minuteman and Thor-x\ble. 
1 954 George A. Fflaiun, Jr. I F^-r j^jj- Harvard Blvd. Dayton 6, Ohio 
Here I am, fadng the Soundscribcr machine again with the prospect of five more years of this. With a me^er supply of mall in front of me it looks like it's going to be a long, long' five years. Please don't wait for me to ^vrite you because the odds definitely favor the fact that I won't be able to handle correspondence like that \Wth some 1,000 members of our original class. On* the other hand, I do wait to hear from you and during the past year the situation has become a bit desperate. I'm afraid if it doesn't improve this column will shrink up and fade from these pages in the ensuing vears. Help! Help! Help! 
Three ver>- formal looking pieces of stationary stand out among the stack of letters on the desk here. The first one informs that "Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mulholland Butler request the honor of your presence at the marriage of their daughter, Karen .\nne, to Mr. WILLLAM JOHN MORLEY on Saturday, the twentieth of Jtuie at eleven o'clock. Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, Indiana." The second one reads as follows: ''Mr. and Mrs. Ma.x Gilbert Cutter request the honor of your presence at the Nuptial Mass uniting their daughter, Patricia Mar>- and Mr. WILLIAM DIOMAR REYNOLDS in the Sacrament of Holy Matrimony on Saturday morning, July 4, at eleven o'clock. Our Lady of Good Counsel Church, .Aurora, Illinois." The last of these reads, "Dr. and Mrs. Royal Van Gaiter Sherman invite you to participate In the Nuptial Mass uniting their daughter, Mary Susan to Mr. JOHN CHARLES DONAHER, JR. in the Sacra­ment of Holy Matrimony on Saturday, the first day of August, at eleven o'clock in the morning. Church of St, Joseph, Redwing, Minnesota." 
CHARLEY SPICKA called me at home a few weeks ago. He was on leave from his Air Force duty at E\Tea'C-FauvilIe Air Base in France. Charley has just been married to the former Verna .Mice Kerans at an impressive ceremony over in France. Charley has rclnlistcd in the Air Force and intends to continue his fiylng duties. He hopes that perhaps next March will mean a transfer back to the U. S. 
TOM McDERMOTT reports that he has ser\ed honorably in the Marine Corps, has continued his honorable service as a reserve since his release from active duty in '56. He was married in the fall of 1957 and has a young son born last ^larch. He also passed on that he is Immensely wealthy, satisfied, and working with his father. J.ACK ROSSHIRT, attorney at la\v, is associated with the Jacobs, Mil­ler, Rooney and Lcderleitner law firm at 33 N. LaSallc Street, Chicago 2, Illinois. DR. FR.-\NK J. BOTT has just completed hts internship in Phila­delphia General Hospital and has started a resi­dency at the Veterans Administration Research Hos­pital, Chicago, Illinois. JOHNNY LATTNER was recently appointed assistant coach at the University of Denver. In John's first year of coaching at St. Joseph's High School In Kenosha, Wisconsin, his teams won five games, lost two and tied one. 
LT. JOHN C. McKINZIE is stationed at TUSLOG Detachment 28, A.P.O. 32+, New York. He is doing communications work with the Navy about 40 miles from Istanbul, Turkey. 
The following interesting letter was received some time back from TOM SHORT. 
"Just keeping track of myseU has been a major problem. Since becoming a general's aide and pilot, I have had many good opportunities to see the world. ^\^e make trips to the northernmost points 
^otre Dame Alumnus, December, 2959 61 
in Greenland and Alaska, into the Caribbean as far as Trinidad, England, Europe and practically all parts of the U. S. This leaves little time to spend in Xe\v York, but my time here has been cnjov-ablc. Just recently BOB HANLEY and I moved into a new apartment. Our address is 40­38 40th Street, Long Island City, New York. \Vc arc in 7K and the phone is ST 4-5806. Both Bob and I would be happy to hear from old friends that happen to be in this area. 
"Bob is employed by IBM and is well satisfied. By coincidence, w*c arc both working in the same building. Another classmate is also u*orking in tliis building. RAY TIERNEY is employed by the Hanover Bank on the ground floor. He is married, has 2Yi cliildren and looks like Jt agrees with him. In his Sparc time he is attending night latv school. Ray tells mc that JIM BROWX is in law school with him and is now married. Brother DICK TIERXEY is working in the city and doing well. PAUL FORSMAN is also close by and occasionally drops down for lunch. Wc hope to all get to­gether sometime soon. 
"TOM (RED) MURPHY is working across the street for Western Union. Wc met on tlic subway and still haven't managed to meet again. Also ran into BOB ^\'Hr^E while in the ticket Unc at Madison Square Garden. He is working in the Wall Street area. Both of these are holding out with the bachelor ranks. 
"Last week wc received a call from BILL C/W^rV-XAUGH. He was in the city on a buying trip and is in the toy business in Oak Park, III. He and Bob spent one night at the N.I.T., but I was unable to go with them. DICK SULLI\'AN ^vas in town on USAF business a few weeks ago. He is now located at Bakalar AFB in Columbus, Ind. P.\T FOLEY is still stationed at GrifHss AFB in Rome, New York. Both plan to be released from the scnice soon and start practice. Also bachelors. 
"Heard from BOB CU.MMIXGS and JIM CORYX a while back. Bob is in law school in Washington, D. C. and Jim is practicing law in tlie hometown area." 
Last spring FRAN ROMANCE reported the fol­lowing from Morocco: "Tliis is one letter I have wanted to write for quite some time. Bclic\'e it or not, the tempo of actlnty over here in Africa is really quite fast, and my family and I always seem to have something to do. 
"I hate to say it, but it looks like wc won't be able to make it to our first Class of '54 reunion. My RAD date is 3 August, and we won't be leav­ing Morocco until 7 July for the wonderful U.S. of A. I guess ever since wc drove away from the campus in June of '54 I have been looking for^^-ard to the day when I could return as an *01d Grad,* and meet all of those wc studied and recreated with. I fear that it "'iU have to^wait until the 10th year reunion now. AVhen I put the Xa\y blue aside I would like to start studying for a Ph.D.; but at any rate, whether or not this is effected, we want to settle in the Washington area, and any and all Notre Dame men will be welcome at the Romances. Actually, I don*t intend to sever all my bonds with the Xa\-y, as I would like to affiliate with an active reserve unit in tlic Washington area. Speak­ing as I am to a former Xa\-al Officer, I thought you might understand if I were to say that I have become quite attached to the Xa\y. (Not exactly — 
I've become quite unattached and I like it that way! GAPjr) 
"Since Ltjg (now ci\-ilian) MATT MALLISON left Morocco, I have been left as the sole member of the Class of '54 in Morocco, as far as I know. Of course, Notre Dame has a rather considerable representation from the other classes: JOHN CHOMEAU, BOB MORSCHES, GARLAND DE­yOR and BOB DUFFY — all of about 1957 vintage." 
BOB CHICKEY still does a nice job in keeping me informed of activities in tlie St. Louis area. As cndcncc, I submit tlic following letter. 

"I have been meaning to write this letter for some time but I have been pretty busy. I was sure sorry 1 had to miss the reunion after planning to attend and looking forward to it for some five years but I guess you can't plan too far ahead after one gets married. TTie week end of the reunion we moved into our new house and a few days later wc bad another arri\-al to the Chickey Family, an 8 lb., 2 oz. boy. Bob, Jr. We have been a little busy, to say the least, but I think things are getting back to normal (I hope!]. 
" I imagine the week end was quite a success. Did we have a good showing? I know you and the fellows put a lot of time and effort in planning it, for which you arc all to be congratulated. I 
62 Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 
JOHN P. WALKER, '49 For "Typhoid Mary," a Red Label Day 
To the Class of '49 Johnny Walker is 
more than a brand of Scotch. He's their 
genial (though uncommunicative) secre­
tary and also, since last summer, the vice 
president of Roche, Rickerd & CIear>', Inc., 
leading Chicago advertising agency*. This 
after only ten years in the game — all, 
mirabile dictu, with the same company. 
Editor of the Dome and of \'arious de­partments in the Scholastic, John joined Roche, Rickerd (then Williams) & Cleary on the day after graduation, starting as a trainee in the copy department- He rose (on a stack of blotter blurbs and match book cover macaronics) to the editorship of Trailways magazine, published by the agency for one of its clients. Following the demise of this publication (John has called himself "the T>'phoid Marj' of the agenc>' business") he continued as a full-fledged copywriter until 1955, when he became an account executive. Accounts prospered and inexorably forced the vice presidenc>' upon him. 
In his purple prose period John also helped establish a community theater in his native Elgin, 111., luring to the footlights and eventually (1955) to the altar, Ruth Ellen Borror of Potomac, 111., a teacher of English in the Elgin public schools. 
John and Ruth now live in Wayne, 111., with their two sons, John, 3, and Michael, 2-A current activit)' is tr>*ing to help the Franciscan Fathers make a parish of nearby Christ the King Mission. 
guess the only thing I can do is to be optimistic and stxirt making plans for June of 1964 for the lO-ycar reunion. 
*'I don't have too mucli news to report from the St- Louis area. I think everybody is hiding out for the summer montlis. I am trying to get all the fellows to our annual St. Louis Club picnic which HERM KRIEGSHAUSER is handling and maybe there we will be able to find some ncAvs for the column. I've started the groundwork here for the 10th reunion??" 
TOM HALEY recently completed some graduate work in electrical engineering at Michigan Sta^ and he is now employed by the Bell Tclepho^ Laboratories at Andover, Mass. 
BOB McGLYNN sent the folloiring from M36 N. Williams Avenue, Portland 17, Oregon. 
*'It has been a while since I have written as to my whereabouts, but I imagine this happens as one gets farther from his graduation day. For a \vhilc I thought it was going to be possible for mc to get back to the campus for our five-year rcum'on, but it is now out of the question. On ifay 1 I viiM be administrator of the Memorial Hospital in Pullman, Washington. The work by June will be piling on much too heavily for any absence, ^ncc these first five years have gone by so quickly, how­ever, perhaps in no time at all the ten-year re^ union will be here and I'll be able to get baf^ to the cold, raiiiy Midwest. 
"Betty and I now have three children: Elizabeth .\nnc, 3^2; ifaurccn Sliannon, 2; and John Gregory, 5 months. Wc arc partially responsible for the world population boom." 
If the editor carries out my wishes you will see somewhere on this page a picture of Lt. RICH HOHNfAN and family. This picture was received on the campus during reunion week end and helps to explain why Rich was unable to join us. He is presently stationed in Hawaii \v\i\\ the Marines* of course. He is in cliarge of all maintenance at the Kancohc tMr Station and expects to be out there for another two years. ^ 

I'm sure others arc as proud of their familitl^ as Rich and rightfully so, I would like to propose a bit of a contest for this year. The purpose of the contest will be to determine who has the largest family in our class. I am open for entries and ask that you send a suitable photograph for reproduction in this magazine. Tlic following people arc working hard to get into the compe­tition. Marie and MILT BEx\UDINE had a young daughter, Katherinc Marie, on Mav 17­Celeste and JOE COURAND, JR., welcomed Marie Celeste last March. 
Let me hear from you. 

From the Alumni Office: 
FRED M. BRAND, JR., no longer lives .?. Wausau, Wis., according to his dentist dad. After graduation Fred spent two years in the army, "most of the time in Alaska. Tlie next year was spent at the University of Innsbruck, Austria. Following year in Denver, Colo., and last August 17 he en­tered the novitiate of the Dominican Order located at Winona, Mtnn., St. Peter Martyr Prior>\ He is known as Brother'Hcnr>* Suso." 
Last summer JESSE A. JOLLY of San .\ntonio, Texas, picked up an M.S. in industrial administra­tion from Carnegie Tech. 
YEAR REUNION ^J Class of '55 
JUNE 10-11-12 

195 5 '^o™^ ^- O'Malley 
6738 Kenwood Kansas City, Mo. 

From the .\lumm Office: Tlie Class of '55 \rill have quite a crop of di. ^ tinguished medicos. DR. STEVE PREVOZNIK^ graduation from the University of Pennsj-lvania ^fedical School last summer 'was capped by the announcement that he had won the Dr. A. O. J. Kelly award (a clicck for $90) for the best descrip­tion of a clinical experience in med scliool, in this case a summer spent in industrial medicine at Atlantic Refining Co. Starting his internship in July, Steve has a hospital-fumtshed apartment at 524 S. Lansdownc Av., Yeadon, Pa. WILLIAM 
P. TUNNELL, MD., was graduated from Cornell ^fedical College and started to intern in July on the Second (Cornell) Surgical Division of Bellc­^•uc Hospital, New York 16, N. Y. Two other class­mates, DR. ALFRED D. GHAPHERY and DR. WAYNE \\\ PETERNEL got their M.D. from Pit ^ 
MICHAEL J. DAKIN has moved from Lo5^ Angeles to Washington, D. C , having been awarded a fellowship for graduate study in social work at the Catliolic University of America, with full tui­tion, room and board. 
When the loss-Iadcn Lions of St. Leo's Prep, ^ . Leo, Fla., eked out a 6-0 Wctory over the ^defeated St. Ann Crusaders in West Palm Bcacli 
this past October, Wctorious head coach LEO McEVOY had edged t^vo classmates on the St. Ann jtaff, JOHN HOSINSKI and SAM BUDNYK, 
For WILLLVM R. McCULLOUGH ("a terrible letter writer") his wife Valeric (ncc Prime) re­ports thcy have been married since September of 1956. In the hiatus Bill has worked for an instru­ment manufacturer during post-grad study at U. of California; received an M.S. and a daughter, Claire Marie, in 1958; gone to work for Hewlett-Packard, Palo /\lto, and now lives in Menio Park. 
A dauglitcr, Amy Eileen, was born August 27 to ROBERT N. HAIDLXGER and wife Mary Ann 
«
t. Mark's *55 and a sister of DA\'E LMONEX, I). The Haidingcrs live in Caldwell, N. J. 
After a couple of years na\'al ser\'ice TOM BRAND is a clicmical engineer with duPont and lives at 1809 Shady Lane, Apt. 3, Louisville, Ky. MARK HE(\LY, after a two-year army hitch, went into graduate training in mechanical engineering with Atlis-Chalmcrs and has been assigned to the company's nuclear power department. 
In July the Roclicster, K.Y., Democrat Chronicle announced an impressive new appointment for JAME A. PORaVRI, JR. Since last January Jim has been relocation director for Rochester's Badcn-Ormond slum clearance project, and now the Rochester Housing Authority has unanimously se-
Actcd him as manager of the city's Hanover Houses iJrojcct. Possibly the youngest public housing ex­ecutive in the U.S., Jim was released for the job by the City Rehabilitation Commission and rec­ommended by \'arious social agencies and citizen groups who had a hand in the investigation of Rochester's housing conditions. 
Other promotions: TOM SUTHERLxVND, from plant engineer to project engineer in the electrical engineering department of Indiana Bell Telephone (Tom, wife Edna and son Ricliard live at 2112 N. AVinfield, Indianapolis); DICK COOK, from as­sistant advertising manager to manager of adver­tising and sales pronation of the Stciner Company, paper products distributor (an i\ir Force vet, Dick 
^ married and taking grad courses in marketing %. Chicago U.). 
Graduate members: PAUL MERZ, after four years at the University of ^finnesota, has Joined the faculty of Canisius College, Buffalo, N.Y.; DR. PHILIP WILKEN has moved to the Chem-strand Corp. as a polymer research chemist. 
lOC ^ JohnP. Dcasy 
• '^^ 5697 N. Lincoln Ave. Chicago 45, Illinois 
Tl^c Class of 1956 is asked to remember in prayer *Iic father, mother and grandmother of JIM 
VIEHARY all of whom passed away within eleven months. Jim is now with B. Altman & Co. and has asked that we extend an invitation to any of the lads that arc in the area to give him a call or even drop in, you are always welcome at 226 Raymond St., Rockvillc Centre, L.I., New York. 
Our deepest condolences to ED WILSON (Dct. B USABMA, Redstone Arsenal, Alabama] after his wife Esther Rita Wilson, 24, a nurse at Childrcns Hospital in South Bend, was injured fatally early Saturday May 23, on U.S. 31 near Crothersville, Ind. She was on her way to meet Ed at the Brown Hotel in Louisville, He was on a ihtce-day pass. TOM ADAMS (1609 Ellwood Ave., Apt. 
^ft-1, Louisville, Ky.) who was with Ed on the day of the accident requests our prayers for her and Ed, as she was a close and dear friend to many of us. 
LETTERS FROM DEPT. 
ART BALEK — 4543 Grant Rd. N.W., ^Vash­ington 16, D.C, — reports on that transient group of Washingtonians like PAT COGEN wearing the Navy Blue. . . . BOB MULDOON stationed at Ft. Meyer. . . . TOM BRENNER an electrical engineer for the Bureau ot Ships, , . . TONY CVSTORINA working for the U.S. Bureau of Public Roads, in the Oflicc of Research. , . , 
^H N NUTANT attending the Univ. of Maryland 
Wudying for his Ph.D. in Aerodynamics, . . . AL SZEWCZYK also at Maryland working on his Doctorate in mcch. cng. Art himself is with the Bureau of Public Roads and by now has been trans­ferred to Augusta, Maine, after his "matrimonial 
Dan and Teresa Barlo^v* seem to be co^holders of the Class of '48 championship for the most children, and here thcy are, all eight of them: Christopher, 10; Julia, 9; Kathleen, 8; Morgan, 7; Patricia, 5; Vincent, 4; Ann, 2, and Constance, 6 months. 
scene" with Miss Maureen Sullivan last April 18 in D.C. 
J.\CK GUEGUEN has for%varded a roster of some of our classmates still on the campus: Grad Scliool, FR/VNK PETRELI^V and JIM ERLACHER; Librarian, ED WHITE; Law School, JOHN KEN­NEDY, BILL BAILEY, DICK SCHILLER, TOM CREEHAN, VIC McFADDEX, DICK CL.\RK, PAT McCr\RT^\N (recently appointed clerk for Justice Whittaker of the U.S. Supreme Court for 1959-1960) POGO REILLY, H.\NK DIXON, .\L\SON SULLIV/\N, GERRY BRANN, DICK BORSCH, and BILL HARRINGTON; Instructors, BILL BELLIS (English) and JACK GUEGUEN (Political Science), Some 56'ers seen on campus were TO.M K.\NE, BILL ENGLE, JACK SNELL, FR/VNK TONINI (recipient of a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship), and GERRY TR^VFFiaANDA studying art in L.A-
Mrs. Kathleen Barron informs the column of her son BILL BARRON, now married and the father of two children, Gar>* and William, while employed as an engineer with Bethlehem Steel Corp. Bill's address is 1101 Emllio St,, Johnstown, Pa, Thanks Mrs. Barron. Mothers, take note. . . . 
Peg and JACK KEGALY took two weeks leave from the Air Force for a European trip via Madrid, Paris, and Germany last April, They will return from New Jersey this September and settle In Chi­cago, Many thanks for the cards. . . ­
A salute to ED COSGROVE for the newsiest let­ter of the year. . . . Here is the fuel he sent in mid-April , , , GENE O'CONNOR the successful inter-hall football mentor has been appointed head football coach of Bishop Timon High in BufTalo after three successful years as assistant coach to the Catholic football champion of AVcstern New York. Gene by the way received his law degree from the Univ. of BufTalo last June. . , . 
Sally and JL\I DOWDLE plus Colleen and Jeanne Ann will be leaving Quantico this September to return to the south side of Chicago. . . . MISTY FiVNNON and BILL \\'EIMAN members of the Hawaiian Marine B-Ball squad renewed their old acquaintances with Jim at the .All-Marine Basket­ball Tournament at Quantico this past February. .. . 
Congratulations to: DON FISH, MIKE KILEY, TOM FALCINELLI, JIM SWIFT, JOE SPIEGEL, WALT TROH/\N, and JOHN COONEY, who have received their law degrees from Georgetown. .. . 
Recently heard that TOM SWOPE will soon graduate from the Univ. of Penn. Law School, . . . JACK OWEN (LL.B. Georgetown), now married and a member of the D.C, and N.Y. bars, has set up shop in New York City, . . . 
JOHNNY RODGERS, the old Bengal Bouter is newly engaged and working at home in the Buffalo area, as is GOOTCH ALLEN after his recent wedding. Bumped into JIM S^VSSO at the BuiTalo ^Virport; Jim is linng and working out of Svractise for G.E. . . . LOU GIORD.\NO, BOB JASTR.\B and JOE MILLER are drilling away at George­town Dental Scliool. JACK FITZSIMMONS, re­cently out of the .Army is now attending George Washington Univ, Law School, , . , Doing well as an accountant for a building firm in Bufl'alo is TONY RUSSO. . . . TOM BEN'NET is with the Promotion Dcpt. of the Buffalo-Couricr-E-^ress,... 
PETE ALVRONEY is back in AVinchcster, Mass, after the scr\-icc and is now studj-ing at the Foreign Service School at Georgetown. Last time JERRY RYAN was seen, was during the Georgctoi*-n Med. vs. George Washington Med School basketball game, Accidently met LARRY DALY at a movie in D.C. Larry is in the Na%"j' — an ensign out of Newport. 
TOM CHAMBERS, CS.C. is studying at Holy Name College and w*as a ^veIcome visitor at Georgetown, . . . Talked to AL KARNATH in Baltimore recently while he digs in at M.I.T. Seen at the 1958 Naw game in Baltimore were JOHN O'CONNOR, GORDIE DI RENZO, BILL WELDON, PETE CAMPBELL, and HARRY LOCKWOOD. 
TOM SH.\NAHAN, ED DENN, JIM GAMMON, all received LL.B.'s from Georgetown last February and were equally successful with the D.C. Bar. .. . Congratulations to all the barristers and to COS­GROVE (53 Reed Ave., Lacka%i.-ana 18, N.Y.) for your passport to practice. Many thanks for the letter, Ed, 
TO.M COONAN (429 Standard St., El Segundo. Calif.) checked in u-ith the column and since *56 has received his ^l.S, in chem. cng. at N.D. In August of '57 he married Kathleen McFadden. .. . For six months he ^^TIS with the Army Chemical Corps in Ft. McClellan and since February *58 the Coonons have settled just outside of L,A. Now with the California. Research Corp., a subsidy ol Standard Oil of Calif., he and Kay are the first of our class to announce the birth of TAVINS^ Timothy Joseph and Terence Sean. , , . Needlcaa to say they have been quite busy since January. 
From Rome comes uord by JIM BRENNAN and NICK MAVIGLIANO who have toured the Eternal City among others, and in their travels ran into JOHN KENNEDY (N.Y.), who is a lieutenant at Spangdahlem A.F.B., and RAY SMITH, '53, who played in the Italian International Clay Court Championship. Nick hod high praise for the N-D. Club of Rome and its Sec>-. \TNCE Mc-ALOON. The card said they planned to return in November, but with all the vino thcy couldn't be sure. , , . 
Another letter, graciously receii-ed, from JERRY .ANDERSON who picked up his degree in February of *59 after sei^nng his hitch in the Marines. \\'hile on tour he ran into Lt, MIKE MUL­ROONEY in .Atsugi, Japan and my long-Iost­not-heard-from roommate TOAD RYAN*, who wai last seen in a Detroit pub planning to do a bit of coaching down Kentuckv way, . . . .Also seen were PAT COGAN and BILL WARD. MIKE SAVIANO was about to marry a girl named Bonnie Brand while finishing mcd school. Jerry is now in South Bend and with I.B.M, and his address is 605 N. Main St., CE 4-7656. 
THOS. A. BOTT is on the Engineering Staff at the Bohn Aluminum & Brass Co., Danville, H L Thanks for the card, Tom, . . . JOHN POWERS 
Notre X>ame Alumnus^ December^ 1959 63 
CROA\XEY, In a memo to Dean Baldingcr, says lie is finally applying his prc-medical training as he plans to attend the I-aiv-Scicnce Academy at Crested Butte, Colorado, after his graduation from Dc Paul Lavv School, to study MedicO'Iegal Technique. . . . TOM SU'EEXEY is with Vis-King in Clearing, 111. Rumor has it MIKE (TIGER) FELD is in training for the F.B.I, in Wash­ington. . . . 
A stag party was recently held at this address prior to the wedding of PHIL KRJVMER and Mary 
K. Shanahan, who exchanged vows in Holy Cross Church, Bata\ia, 111., last Aug. 29. A lengthy discussion laintinucd between those in attendance, BOS ^\•ELCH, TOM DONOVAX, DON' COSTEL­LO, BOB CARRANE, JACK CVSEY, ROG O'RIELLEV, JOHN CORBETT and others. . . . 
DON C\RLIX (556 Johnson, Gar>-, Ind.) reports that he has taken the Indiana and Illinois Bar exams after rccciWng his LL.B from the Univ. of Jficliigan. Don is soon to be associated with a Chicago patent law firm, . . . Two of his class­mates were BILL BREHL and SKIP RICHARDS. Don, when you settle in Chicago please fonvard your address so we can turn your name over to the Chicago Club for their mailing list. . . . 

BIRTH AXXOU.XCEMENTS Congratulations to Jody and BOB McGOLD-BRICK (Old County Road, East Granby, Conn.) on the arrival of Michael Patrick who weighed in at 8 pounds last Mav 10 . . . and to Arlcne and PAT CRADDOCK ' (2548 W. Raschcr, Cligo. 45, III.) and their Kelly .-\nne who arrived last June 7 at 7 lbs. 20 inches. . . . 
WEDDING BELLS Congratulations and best wishes to Jan Wasen­bergcr and PHIL AGEE on their recent marriage in the Log Chapel last August 22. Thanks to LOUIS KOSSE, '53, for the letter telling how well our class u'as represented in Louis\ille, Ky. at the wedding of BERNARD KOSSE to Lynn Viscusi on June 20, KEN ANDRE of Waukcgan, 111., and JOE MacIN'TOSH of Cincinnati were members of the %vcddlng party. On hand was P.AUL KING, who Is currently working on his masters at Indiana Univ. and rooming with BILL LASH '56. 
Announcing the marriage of Nanc>* Gail Card-well and Mr. JOHN W. CORBETT to have taken place on Oct. 3, 1959 in the Cathedral of St. Ra>'mond Nonnatus In Joliet, III. 
Congratulations and best wishes are in order for }tliss Patricia Ann Thlel and the crew cut barber, and former Green Giant Third Baseman, GENE BRENNA N who will have exchanged marriage \-ows on November 14, 1959 in La Grange, 111. Brennan the former All-Campus tackle from .Alumni is now a Stock Broker for Smith Barncj* & Co. here In Chicago. 
CHANGE OF ABODE The Alumni OfHcc has supplied the column with a number of cliange of address cards. The follo^v­ing arc just some of those received since the last issue: JERRY S^\•EENEY — 14709 Winthros, De­troit 27, Mich. . . . R.\Y PAP.\Y — 137 Upper Saddle River, Montvala, N. J. . . . GERRY LAPEYRE — Stewart Hall, Columbia, Mo. . -. LT. JG. TOM ARNOLD — 15 Blackhawk Road, Washington 21, D.G. . . . KARL MARTERSTECK 
—
 2772 Counto' Club Blvd., Rock>- River 16, Ohio. . . . CHARLES DURAND — 2205 S. San Antonio, Pomona, Gal. . . . JOHN P. RYAN — 5 Peter Cooper Road, New York 10, N. Y. . . . TONY SILVA — 3103 Jefferson Rd., Newport, 

R.
 L . . . LARRY WTTHUM — 163 A Fifth St., Fords, N. J. . . . PAUL HURLEY — 400 Cali­fornia Co. Bldg., New Orleans, La. . . . BOB KURD — 603 Lebanon St., Aurora, III. . . . GEORGE ZIMMERMAN — 50 North Park Rd., West View, Pa. . . . JOHN ADAMS — 1656 Eddington Rd.. Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio. . . . DON GOTHARD — 1729 ^V. Finn Place, Mil­waukee, ^Vis. . . . JERRY ISAACS — Box 1084 Petersburg, Va. . . . JIP PEURRUNG — 1661 Bamesdale Court, Cincinnati 30, Ohio. . . . ALEX MARCEL — 324 Aldenvood, Occanslde, Gal. . . . KEVIN JOYCE — 497 Chestnut St., Manchester, 


N.H. . . . CHET MITCHELL — 1172 S. Oak Park Ave., Oak Park, III. . , . JOHN DODD — 1870 Ashland Ave., Columbus 12, Ohio. . . . DON M05ER — Actawood, New Albany, Ind. . . . JOHN CUPPER — 220 Schoonmaker Ave., Mones­»en. Pa. . . . DAN QUIGLEY, seen at the Army 
DEDICATION 
If I may at this point, and with the kind per­mission of the Class of '56, be it resolved: 
WHERE.AS one MICHAEL MOONEY having resided in Indianapolis, Indiana, who haWng graduated \rith this Class from the University of Notre Dame on the third day of June, MCMLVI, W*HERE.-\S: having answered the call of the Almighty, who at this moment is studying and praying In a place called Teutopolls, Illi­nois at the home of the Franciscan NoWtiate, \VHEREAS: be it further resolved by all who may read this resolution, solemnly and witli fer\*ent admiration, so as to answer the prudent request of our classmate, wc do hereby promise to remember in our prayers for the fruitful success of the wishes of our FR.\TER PADRAIC .MOONEY, O.F.AL . . . Pax. . . . 
From the Alumni Office: 
RICHARD ST. JOHN, after acquiring an LL.B. at Catholic University while working in the U.S. Patent Office, is now associated \«th one of tlic leading patent attorneys In the Pacific Northwest, with offices in Spokane. Wash. Dick has become an active member of the N.D. Club of Spokane. 
GEORGE KREMBS received his Ph.D. in elec­trical engineering from Stanford and went to work as a Philco Corp. executive in Philadelphia recently. He has a year-old daughter, L>Tin Marie. 
It's a small world, especially in the U.S. Na\y. LTJG. LARRY O'CONNOR followed O.C.S. at Newport uith Air Intelligence training. Joined his first squadron at Moffct Field, Calif., then trans­ferred to Carrier Group 21 and the U.S.S. Lexing­ton for the Middle East and Formosa Straits crises. Most recently the Lexington has been circling Japan as part of the Seventh Fleet. In Yokosuka Larry met PHELAN THOMPSON, attached to Na\-al Intelligence In Japan, and Vice President CLE.M O'NEILL from the cam'cr Ranger. 
The same LTJG. CLEMENT O'NEILL had a hair-raising experience aboard the Ranger this sum­mer of? the Japanese coast. During a night landing his Skyraider failed to gain altitude after a wave-ofT. The radar plane's engine conked out. Plunging into the drink, Clem and two other crew members managed to squeeze out of the hatches before the plane sank. They hung onto a life raft for twenty minutes before being pulled aboard the destroyer Tucker. 
1957 ^^*? ^^^^^ 

Chicago Show Printing Co. 2635 N. Kildare, Chicago 39, HI. From the .-Mumni Office: You'll notice that the heading of this column has clianged. ^\'ith PAT ^VILLIAMSON missing and presumed occupied. President GEORGE STRAKE has made a tentative appointment of JACK CASEY as acting secretary. You can help Jack by sending In some news immediately. If Pat checks in at some future date with a reasonable alibi, all will be forgiven. Too late for the statistics page wc received ^vord of the arri\*al of President Strake's first child, a son, George III (7 lb., 11 oz.), on November 17. Congratulations, George. Papa Is studying at the Har\'ard Graduate Scliool of Business and can be contacted at 5 Maplewood St., Watertown 72, Mass. Classmates BOB MONDRON, coaching St. Ann 
High of West Palm Beach, Fla., and REV­PASCHAL BAUTE, O.S.B., a coach at St. Leo' ^ Prep, met in the fall at a football game in St. Leo edged St. Ann 6-0. 
TOM HALEY completed training at the Hart­ford, Conn., headquarters of Aetna Life in October and immediately started to work in the South Bend area. JOHN POWERS is back in Peoria after study with Massachusetts Mutual in Springfield, Mass. 
JERRY V.XNDENBOOM won an Ethyl Corp. graduate research fellowship at the U. of Katuas in chem engineering to continue work toward his Ph.D. He got his master's at Kansas in 1958. A graduate member of the Class, R/VYMOND Lc-BLANC, is now head of the physics department at St. Joseph's University, Moncton, N.B., Canada. 
JOE MORELLI Is In a training program witlO, Bank of America in Los Angeles. "• ' Many thanks to the nameless contributor of the following: 
"Since the news of the Class of '57 has been quite meager In the past few issues, I have de­cided to contribute some of the information of members of the class which I have heard of, or from. 1 hope you will forgive me for remaining anonj'mous, but I wish to cast no bad reflection on our class secretary-, PAT WILLIAMSON, who probably is not able to supply you with informa­tion. I have written him several times but evi­dently he has been unable to relay the infor­mation to the ALUMNUS. 
"CHARLIE WrrTENBERG took the big sten^ August 1 and married the former Miss Lorett^' Giblin. Charlie is now employed by the Ro^-al^ Globe Insurance Co. in St. Louis. JOE SULLI­VAN married the former ^fis5 Bette Jo Wivel on August 8. Joe is now at the U. of Wisconsin Law School. 
"MARSHALL CATAN2ARO and Miss Carol Rles will be wed this December 26. Marshall is now a junior at St. Louis U. Medical School. 
"JACK SOUCY, also at St. Louis U. ^^edIcaI School, has been clcclcd president of the junior class there. 
JIM CUSACK, %vho is a married man as of June 21, lias been elected president of his fra­ternity at the U. of Illinois Med. School. 
"Lt. J.G. MARK A. MALEY is presently iff, Japan aboard the U.S.S. John R. Craig. He wlfi* return to the states at the end of September and then will be in San Diego for about seven months. He invites any of the N.D. crowd out that way to look him up. 
"DAN P. SULLIVfVN Is now employed by Howard Hughes Aircraft in Los .Angeles and is working on his master's In electrical engineering at Southern Cat. 
*'MATT WEIS is finished with his sue month stint in the Army and is wielding some of the old 
N.D. influence at St. Louis U. where he may be nominated for president one of these days. 
"BOB GRIFFIN, now out of the Nav>-, will be at Northwestern's graduate school campus in Chi(9, cago this fall studying for a masters in busInessV^ Sounds like a turncoat engineer becoming a com­merce man. 
"BILL GROG/\N is in Mllivaukce working in AUIs Chalmers training program. Bill says he is haWng some trouble finding a healer for his car which he brought with him from Fla., where he recently got his discharge from the Navy. 
game last fall, now at 26 Butler PI., Hempstead, 
N.Y. . . . DEAN DAVIS — 806 E. Corby, South Monogrammcrs all arc the cluldrcn of James J. Engd, '50, from left: John, 5; Catherine, 4; Bend 17, Ind. Gregory, 3; Ruth, 2, and Monica, going on 1. 
64 Notre Dame Alumnus^ December, 1959 
I am sure all will be happy to know that our phomorc and junior class president, FRANK 

EDACE,El  has not lost the political touch he ac­quired at N.D. As you know, Frank left after three years to go to Loyola mcd school in Chicago, but since then he has been elected president in his freshman and sophomore years and is now presi­dent of his senior class. Congratulations, Frank. It may be of incidental interest to know that Frank has been working tliis past summer at the Cook county jail hospital. 
"TOM SCHRIBER has a hobby of collecting degrees. Last summer he received a masters in chcm. engineering, this summer he aquircd a masters in math, and next summer he will get Im Ph.D. in chem. engineering. Tom has done all the work 
^hvhi\c on fellowship at Mich. U." " Finally, sympathy to DEx\N RICHARDS, whose father, Vincent Richards, died Sept. 29 of a heart attack. Vinnie Richards was a great tennis champ of the Bill Tilden era. 
195 8 Arthur L. Roule, Jr. I y» U j^QQ Indiana Avenue LaForte, Indiana 
I am afraid that I must begin this edition of the class news with some sad news — the death of three of our classmates. BILL R^VCHAC, of 
«
^kew Prague, Minnesota, died on ^fay 28 in a plane fcrash. TOM BARTLEY, of Arcadia, California, died on April 18; and ROBERT CUMMINGHAM, of South Bend, was killed as were his mother, father, and sister in an auto accident on July 11. Masses have been ofTered for Bill, Tom, and Bob at the class's request and your prayers will be greatly appreciated. 
Our s>"mpathy is also extended to TOM BALL and TOM AL\RT1N, both of whose fathers passed away last spring. Tom Ball has taken on the management of the family firm, the Caledonia Lumber & Coal Co. of Caledonia, New York. We wish him a great deal of success in this position of responsibility. 
^ I am happy to be able to report that corrcs­
9,iondencc has been picking up during the past summer months, a fact w-hich pleases your sccrctar\' immensely. I greatly dislike having to submit a skimpy news column to lack of news and as long as the letters keep coming in I am prescr\'cd from such a fate. It seems that nearly all of the news for this edition concerns events of a matrimonial nature. A number of congratulatorv* notes are in order so here goes. .. . 
First in the stack of mail at my side is a card from MIKE UNDER\VO0D. Mike became en­gaged last Christmas to Miss Pat Hurley (St. Mar>''s '58) and they were married on September 
12. Last Slarch 3. saw the end of Mike's Marine Corps duty and he entered a training program with the lowa-IIIinois Gas and Electric Co. in Daven­
• port. Iowa. A wedding announcement arrived in June from Mr. Lawrence J. Hcssburg announcing the mar­riage of his daughter Margaret ^fa^>• to Mr. ROBERT PIVONKA on the 13th of June in Minne­apolis. I believe that I reported in the last issue that Bob was in med school at tlie University of Colorado, and was rooming with DICK NE­MECHEK who is working in the Denver area. Now Bob will be returning to his studies with a new roommate. 
PAUL PIKELL wrote from Orlando, Florida, where he is stationed with the 32Ist Bombardment 
aWing. At the time of writing, Paul had been sta­tioned at McCoy Air Force Base for ten months and during that time had managed to get in quite a bit of swimming, boating, fishing, sunning, and water skiing. In addition, Paul found time to get married. On June 13, he was wed to Miss Chris­tine Morin in St. James Church, Orlando. 
Mr. Pikcll also reported that although there arc no other N.D. grads of *58 at McCoy, he did know the whereabouts of AL RIMKUS (pilot training at Marianna, Florida), PAUL LYSCH (pilot training at Bainbridge, Georgia), TOM SWIATOWSKI (pilot training at Maiden, Mis­souri), and BOB WATERS (training at SeUridgc AFB, Detroit for administrative work). An impressive letterhead from the office of the 
fl^ommandant of the Eleventh Naval District, San 
^Diego, brought a letter from BRUCE HUOT with 
the following news. Bruce was married on Sep­tember 27, 1958 to Miss Patricia Kilgos. The following February saw him embark on a cruise of the Western Pacific — Hawaii, Okinawa, Japan, 
Former roommates reunited in coaching at St. Leo*s College Prep, Fla., are {left) Leo McEvoy, '55, former track assistant at N.D. and Columbia, now head prep football coach and track mentor at the college, and Father Paschal Baute, O.S.B., '57, a former Bengal Bout champ now ser\'ing as athletic director-line coach for the Lions. 
Korea, and Hong Kong. In May, he was trans­ferred to the Public Information Offices of the Commandant of the Eleventh Naval District (in San Diego) where he has been stationed until the present time. In October (before the publication of this edition of the .VLUM.N'US) the Huots will be­come a family of three. 
Our thanks go to MRS. VINCENT SULLIV/\N for the following news. She and Vincc arc ex­pecting their second child in December. They %vere married in January of ^58, and Vincc was employed after graduation by the Royal Globe In­surance Co. The Sullivans spent about four months in New York while Vincc ^vas in Ro>-al Globe's training program. The first Sullivan offspring, Kathleen Mauvorcen, was born in November of 1958, in New York. Since that time, the Su]li\-an family has moved to Chicago where Vincc is now employed by Owens-Illinois. Mrs. Sulliran also reports that DICK &\SEY was married in Sep­tember of '58 to Miss Helen Morris in Honiewood, 
III. TTic Casej-s welcomed their first child on June 5 and christened her Ellen Ann. Dick is employed by Ro>-al Globe in Chicago. JOHN MEHEGfVN was married on August I and is cur­rcntlv cmploved bv Arthur Young & Co. in Chicago. And CHARLES MELKENT, also em­ployed at Owens-Illinois has become engaged to Miss Jcanine No\"ak of Chicago. Thanks again to Mrs. Sulli\'an for all these items. 
BOB MISSEL writes from Royal Oak. Mich., announcing the arrival of Christopher Charles Atis­sel. who weighed in on May 21 at 7 lbs., 7 ozs. with a height of 19 inches. Bob is now employed as a market analyst by the Detroit Controls Division of ^\merican Standard and Radiator Corp. Bob reported that' he intended to make a trip to N.D. during the football season. 
Other new parents arc: Gayle and DON AN­DRYSIAK, of Wyandotte, Michigan, whose daughter, Michele Marie, was born on August II, weighing 5 lbs. and 14 ozs.; Mary Ellen and MIKE CRO\\TE, whose daughter, Patricia Clare, arrived on xVugust 1 weighing 7 lbs, and 11 ozs.; and Barbara and JOE KNOTT, who welcomed a son, Joseph Fred IV, on March 18, Joe IV weighctl 7 lbs. and 10 ozs. upon his arrival. 
MIKE CROWE also informs us that he will be continuing his studies at the University of AVisconsin on an extension of the ^Voodrow ^Vilson fellowsliip which he received upon graduation. His brother, PAT CROWE, will be teaching biology and math at Bishop Miege High School in Kansas City. 

Further ncu-s from JOE KNOTT was as follows: He is w^th the National Carbon Company of Cleve­land %vorking in Process Equipment Sales. Since he does quite a bit of traveling Joe sees a lot of other '58ers. For example, he dropped in on DAVE HOLTHOUSE and family in Richmond, Ind., re­cently while en route to Franklin, Ohio, for the wedding of BOB NORRIS- Bob was married in June to Miss Annie Marstal. Mr. Knott added that he is attending night school at Western Rc­scr\c where after Jive years he hopes to earn an M.BJ\. 
More matrimonial ne^vs comes from HANK LAUERMAN. It seems thai Hank went on to New York University where he acquired a degree and a wife. Hank wed Miss Jacqueline Johnson of Portland, Oregon, last spring in New York. In June, Hank received his Master's degree in retail­ing and he is currently employed by ^leier & Frank in Portland. 
Just before I began preparing this column to­day, I received a letter from HOOT ^VALSH who reported that he too has become engaged. When I had picked. myself up from the floor I read on to find that his fiancee is Miss Carol Koss of La-Salle, III., Hoot's home town. As of yet no date has been set for the wedding. 
I think that covers all the weddings, births, and betrothals so before proceeding to other ncv*-5 let me extend our congratulations and best w-ishes to all the new brides, grooms, fathers, mothers, and fiancees. 
Now let's turn to the news from our still un­attached brethren. NICK BARTOLINI writes from Germany that he is quite impressed wth the frauleins of that country where he is stationed with the .\ir Force. Kick is presently located near the Holland border, but he has been able to see quite a bit of Europe and even a bit of North Africa while overseas. Nick and CHARLIE KILB went through radar school together but Nick has been put into some new t>-pe of job which he did not explain. If any classmates, cither militar>- or a­vilian, happen to pass through the area Nick woidd be glad to arrange a get-together. Judging from the tone of his letter I surmise that Nick is thor­oughly cnjo>'ing his tour of duty. 
During the summer, I received a letter from SAM NIGRO, who as you recall entered med school at the end of his third year at N.D. Sam reports on his progress at St. Louis Medical School and also passes on some information concerning others who also followed the mcd school path. Sam is currently in the third year of medical studies and has spent the past t%vo summers in research. His first summer was spent working on a research fellowship at the university (St. Louis) and the past summer was spent at the Rocky Mountain Laboratory of the National Institute of /Mlergic and Infectious Diseases. Sam tells us that JKif KING and STEVE SCHILDLER arc both continu­ing in medicine and doing quite well. JIM SIMON entered med school and passed the first year but later entered the seminary and therefore ended his medical studies. 
JERRY DAHLE dropped a line while he was in the midst of being transferred from one assignment to another in the Navv-. Jerry went through OCS at Newport and Supply Corps School at Athens, Georgia. At the time of his writing he was on his way to Treasure Island (San Francisco) where he was to begin duty on a radar picket ship (USS Scanner). Jerr>' expected to sec a great deal of water and very few ports. 
JERRY McCABE %t'ho is also an employee of Uncle Sam (mititar\' police) wrote from Arlington, Va. with a few items of note. Jerry expected to be in Europe soon and perhaps by the time this column goes to press he will have made the trip. Jerry had been with JOHN DEWES at Fort Devens. ^fass., but John was sent to Korea where he is the executive officer of a company. Further reports from Jcrr^' are to the eflect that BILL SOISSON and family now reside in Carlisle, Pa., where Bill is going to la\*' school. BOB Afc-a\RTH y and JOHN XfcGINLEY ran into Jerry in Washington and revealed that they are both lieutenants and arc stationed at Quantico. DENNY CONWAY was also at Fort Devens but xs now at language school in California. 
DICK KOHLER wrote soon after being- released from the Army where he had attended Quarter­masters Officers School (interrupted for a month 
Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 2959 65 
by sickness during whicli he u-as. confined in Walter Reed Hospital). He graduated first in his class in ofiicers school and after being discharged went to 
•work for General Electric io Schenectady. 
 received word this summer tliat JERRY KRAUSS who is attending law school at George­town was employed with the Justice Department for the summer \-acation. 
Kews from t^vo of my former roommates reveals that the Army is still interested in placing host to young men of our ilk. JIM FOLEY has just parted company with the Army at Fort Ord, Cal. JOHN* RUSSO is Just be^nning his stint of six months at Fort His. Jim \W11 return to the Uni­versity of California where he is working to^\"ard an M.B.A. John has been with tlie U.S. Rubber Co. striving to keep us well supplied with "Keds.*' Mr. Russo also had ncivs of URB GRADEL's wedding of last April. It seems that he ran into JOHX HIGGINS who has also joined the ranks of the married men. Others in attendance at the Cradel nuptials were BOB PORST and DON KE.ATIXG. MTiile on the subject of roommates I must also mention my one remaining cx-roomic, JOHX SENG. I have learned from second-hand sources that John too is now a member of the «lite U.S. Army. 
A last minute entry from BOB FORSBERG rc^'cals that still another congratulatory note is in order. Bob and his wife, Joan, became the parents of a daughter, Susan Marie, on August 17. Bob is currently enjoying the Sfissouri landscape in and around Fort Leonard Wood. Lts. JOHN KLEM.MER and BILL REES were leading the troops through basic training at Ft. Wood but they have moved on to the greener pastures of dnlian life. Still ^rith Bob at Leonard A\*ood are enlisted men: HANK ZASG, DON LOPEZ, and ANDY CLARK. JACK AVORKMAN, Bob's roommate at N.D. fell prey to a recruiting ser­geant and signed up for a tliree year hitch, part of which is being spent at Fort Dcvens, ^iass. RICHARD DiCAMILLO was married last Feb. 7 to Miss Joyce Elaine Carhidi in Schenectady, N.Y. Since March Rick has been with the .\ir Force and is now at \Vebb AFB, Big Spring. Texas. 
GILBERT WRIGHT, a grad school classmate, has been promoted to assistant professor of English at Canisius College. 
Well, I guess that takes care of all the news for now. It is now time to start thinking of news for the next column so I would appreciate it if those of you wlio have not reported recently (or at all) would sit down right now and drop me a line. If a letter is too mucli cfTort a postcard w^ll do. Better yet, if you are in the vicinity of 
N.D. drop in and see me. I am still here on campus endeavoring to make my way through that maze known as *'law school." 
In closing let mc wish one and all a Merry Christmas. .Although at the time of this writing this is an extremely unseasonal greeting I imagine that by the time you will be reading these w'ords the Yulctidc will be at hand. So have a happy new year. 
LAW CLASS OF 1958 
John F. Alarchal 140 W. Fourth St., Grccnvnic, Ohio 
It's time for another few words about the Class. First, I want to extend mv svmpathv to ACE TAM and .\DRI.\N WOLF lor their recent setbacks. 
Tlie latest word from Chicago shows that R/\Y DREXLER is now a member of the .Mr Force, and that JACiC C\LL.\H;\N is about to join also. Jack indicated that he is expecting to be a father soon, and probably is as this is written. 
Drcx is in Hospital Administration at Lackland, and says that he enjoys the service immensely. However, I fail to sec how his present job will lead to missile development. 
JOHN MURRAY sent a nice card from Finger Lakes recently to say that he is getting along alright, and to let me know that ED DENN has gone to work in Utica. 
TOM McKlNLEY continues to work for his insurance company wliile he slowly builds his practice. And, believe it or not, FR^VNK V.ARGAS has confirmed the rumor I heard about his getting hitched. The big date is to be November 21. 
I have had communication with GEORGE PAT­TERSON. He's only a few miles from Kecsler, and sa>-s he is enjoying his JAG work, though 
66 Notre Dame Alumnus, December, 1959 

J. Vincent Burke, Jr., '33, (center), just after he was sworn in as general counsel of the 
U.S. Department of Defense, is congratulated by then Secretary Neil McEIroy (left), re­cently succeeded by Thomas Gates, Jr., and Robert Dechert, his predecessor 
as general 
the win and lo^t column is not what he would like it to be. But, from my own experience with US.-\F, I can testify that any victory is an acliievement. 
On my way to Lackland in .April, I stopped off to see BURT GREENBERG. He was doing quite well, and a recent letter from him indicates that his success is continuing. He informed mc that BILL LOY had been in town not too long ago. Bill evidently is doing alright, though I have hardly heard a word from him. 
ADRL-VN WOLF contacted mc a few d3>-s ago, and stated that he is at .\berdcen, Md. for training, and expects to go to Ft. Hood soon to spend a pleasant tour with the x\rmy. Evidently his recent venture is turning out to be an enjoyable one. 
I have had a couple of letters from TOM D.\RRt\GH who, at the time he wrote, indicated that he was still looking for a job. However, Drcx's letter staled that Tom was going to teach in Cleveland. 
Tlic last word I had from TOM McNEILL showed him to be with the JAG office at Carswell .\FB. He seemed to be happy and contented. 
I want to extend congratulations to the Very's on their new arrival. 
Yours truly is about to complete six months active duty and return home. I hope to have left here about October 6, and by the time this article comes out, I will probably have been to several Irish games, and seen most of you. I am looking fonvard to getting back to the practice, and I also hope to hear from some of you who haven't sent any word as to your whereabouts and doings. Remember the watchword is WRITE. So long for now. 
195 9 I^cm^is M. Ncad 
• '* " 6121 RobisonRd. Cincinnati, Ohio 
MIKE KIE^\'EL has moved to California. His 
address is 4332 Claireniont Mesa Blvd., San Diego 
17, Calif. 
Your secretary- has graduated from Officer Basic Course at Fort Bliss and is now assigned to Fort Banks, Mass., on a Nike site. So nobody need worry about an attack. 
D.AMD L. H.-\RT has been appointed a rep­
resentative of Connecticut Mutual Life, assf>ciated 

 counsel. 
with the Farrar agcno' in Cincinnati, Dave li' married to the former Veronica Kohler. DENNIS DINEEN has joined the Patent De­partment of Dow Chemical, Midland, Mich. 
DfVNILO aVSTRO is with Spcrry Gyroscope in Great Neck, N.Y., as assistant publications engineer in the publications department. 
/VNDREW W\'RICK, JR., is a second lieutenant ^rith the Balistic Missile Center at Inglewood, Calif, and lives in Garden Grove, Calif., with his wife, the former Marilyn Smith of St. Joseph, Mich. 
BOB BURNS, a reporter for the St. Petersburg Independent, St. Petersburg, 'Fla., wrote a fine story last summer about N.D^ activity in the area. 
Lieut. GEORGE POGUE was an honor gradual*! of the Army Ordnance School at the Abcrdeeir^ Proving Ground. 
MICHAEL O'CONNOR went into management training with Connecticut Mutual Life in Hart­ford, Conn. He will work for the Harry Duffy agcno- in Bridgeport. Conn. 
CHARLES J. LEIPOLD went to work for Sperrj* Gyroscope as an assistant engineer in the search radar department. 
The Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear f^ Studies has announced the a\-ailahility of Y* 70 Atomic Energy Commission fellowships in health phj-sics for first year graduate study. The fclloivships are open to students ^vho hold a bachelor's degree in biology, chem­istry, cn^neering or phj-stcs, who are pre­pared in related fields and who have com­pleted mathematics through calculus. The assigned universities are Harvard, Vander­bilt, California, Kansas, Michigan, Roches­ter and Washington for a full academic year with three summer months at an AEG installation. Some extensions arc available to complete the master's degree. Stipend is $2300 for 12 months. Applications must be filed before Feb. 1, 1960. Thcj- are ^^ available from the Fellowship Office, Oak ' ^ Ridge Institute ot Nuclear Studies, P.O. Box 117, Oak Ridge, Tenn. 

iJ^ew 1^0oks Jrom J^otre Dame 
WHAT A3IERICA STANDS FOK, edited by Stephen 
D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons. The issues of American identity and the world's image of the United States are the chief concern of the articles in this volume. The authors' evaluation of American institutions, ideas, and purposes should eliminate ^lany of the stereotypes that so often becloud the world's vision of what America stands for. $4.75 
DIPLOMACY IN A CHANGING WORLD, edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons. Diplomacy must play an increasing role in the negotiation of the differences of a changing world. The problems and resources of diplomacy in a world characterized by a radical departure from the past are surveyed in this volume, which holds forth the hope that with sacrifice, perseverance, and imagination diplomacy 
^lay be flexible enough to tame the furies of the con­temporary world. Dag Hammarskjold, George F. Kennan, Sir Pierson Dixon, and Hans Moi'ganthau are among the distinguished diplomats and scholars who have contributed to the volume. $~.50 
FREEDOM AND REFORM IN LATIN AJIERICA, edited by Frederick B. Pike. Provides an insight into some of the changes that have shaped Latin America's recently commenced struggle to erect a society in which the values of individual freedom are safe­guarded at the same time that social and economic 
^forms are achieved. The essays range from a philosophical consideration of the concepts of freedom and reform to an economic study of urbanizing and industrializing Latin America. $G.OO 
SOVIET POLICY TOWARD THE BALTIC STATES, 1918-1940, by Edward N. Tarulis. In 1918 Red troops attacked Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania but were repelled and for more than two decades the Baltic peoples consolidated their statehood. This fascinat­ing book tells how these three nations were finally 
fl>7erpowered and annexed to the Soviet Union; it is a story of broken pledges and broken treaty obliga­tions, diplomatic duplicity, connivance between Com­munism and Nazism, application of force in inter­national relations, and the most naked and brutal imperialism. $5.50 
ETHICS AND THE SOCIAL SCIENCES, edited by Leo R. Ward, C.S.C. Positivistic social science, stand­ing by itself and denuded of ethics, can contribute ^ttle to the world's major problems. Scholars who 
Trre authorities in both ethics and various social sciences discuss the inter-relationship of the two in this symposium. $3.35 
THE IMAGE OF JIAN, edited by iM. A. Fitzsimons, Thomas T. JIcAvoy, C.S.C, and Frank O'Malley. A selection of some of the best essays to appear in the Review of Politics during its first 20 years which show why the Remew has become one of the world's most influential journals. $6.00 
THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION AND RELIGION, 1917-1925, edited and translated by Boleslan' Szczes­nial{. This comprehensive collection of documentary material is intended to give an understanding of the historical change inflicted on orgjmized religion by the Communist revolution from 1917 to 1925. The. introduction is a concise historicsd. survey that points out the complexity of the problem. $6.75 
THEORETICAL ASPECTS OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS, edited by William T. R. Fox. Inter­national relations have to be viewed as a subject which is something more than contemporary history if it is to yield results relevant to the major choices which governments and opinion leaders must make 
• in world politics. This collection of essays grew out of an inter-university seminar at Columbia and is a speculative approach to the study of international relations. $3.25 
INTRODUCTION TO MODERN POLITICS, by Ferdi­nand A. Hermens. The discussion of various patterns of government, both from the historical and func­tional viewpoint, is useful and even indispensable. Professor Stephen K. Bailey of Princeton states: "The book brings together in brief compass one of the best statements on the historical and philoso­phical background of democracy that I have ever seen." $3.50 
THE CONGRESS FOUNDS THE NAVY, 1787-1798, by Marshall Smelser. The author traces the acri­monious debate in Congress and throughout the young nation that preceded the birth of the navy. He shows how the Algerian piracies, French privateering, and the flouting of neutral rights in an Atlantic war aroused the nation and finally forced Congress to "provide and maintain a navy." $5.00 
THE EARLY LITURGY, by Josef A. Jungmann, S.J. This is a fascinating outline of the history of the Church's worship to 600 A.D. by the foremost litur­gist of our day. This period surpasses all others in importance because it is concerned with the forma­tion of the ground-plan of the present Roman Rite. Rev. Gerald EUard, S.J., himself a renowned liturgist, has this to say: "The climactic last chapter, a brilliant sketch of the Latin Mass at Rome from about 400 to 600, will be conned most carefully by readers. There are many other matters treated with distinc­tion by the Innsbruck scholar." $5.75 
Coming in April, 1960: R03IAN CATHOLICISM AND THE AJIERICAN WAY OF LIFE, edited by Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C. April selection of the Thomas More Book Club. Distinguished Protestant, CathoUc, and Jewish au­thors assume that Roman Catholicism is an accepted part of the life of the nation and discuss the social problems. Church and State relations, and the Americanization of Roman Catholicism which have resulted from this acceptance. $4.50 
Order from the Notre Dame Boolistore and all leading bookseUers. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS 
Of/lice o{ tUe Pneiuie*U 
The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
Dear Fellow Alumni: The Fall Meeting of tlie Alumni Board of Directors was held in October on the campus with the usual excellent turnout of directoi-s. During our meetings we considered matters of continuing importance to the individual Alumnus, the clubs, classes and the University. Father Hesburgh, Father Joyce and several other members of the Administration were most generous in giving us much of their valuable time to bring us up to dale on many aspects of the University. We were all ver)' pleased with the recent appointment by Father Hesburgh of Father Tom O'Donnell of the great class of 1941 to assist all of us in the new capacity of Alumni Field Co­ordinator. Father O'Donnell brings with him a wealth of experience and understanding of Notre Dame alumni affairs and we know his efforts will be of great benefit to the University and to our Association. One of the items we considered during the Board sessions was the selection of a theme for Universal Communion Sunday, which will be December 6th this year. Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was founded in 1938 on the premise that the Feast of the Immaculate Conception brings before the American people, through the Blessed Virgin Mary, who as the Immaculate Conception is the Patroness of the United States, the religious roots of our govern­ment and the essential relationship between religion and citizenship. The Board agreed that now, as in few other eras of our historv', we are faced with a clarification of the First Amendment of the Constitution. Better understanding of the First Amendment is needed by all of us so that we do not fall victims to the fallacy that our Constitutional freedom o\ religion is freedom \rom religion, or that the separation of Church and State is the separation of God and government. And so, the 
Board adopted as tlie theme for this Universal Communion Sunday the encouragement of all Notre Dame alumni to define and defend proper Catliolic and American concepts of the First Amendment. The Board is looking forward to our January 1960 Meeting which'will be held in conjunction with a conference on the campus for all Class Secretaries. Jim Armstrong and his ver)' capable group of assistants have outlined and are working hard on a program which is designed to help our many unsung secretarial heroes in their reporting chores and their class organizing responsi­bilities. Periodically they are called together at Notre Dame to consider and discuss matters such as class reunions, class and club relationships, class rosters and directories, and the secre­taries' part in the ALUMNUS. The work of die secretaries has always been a vital part in the effective functioning of our Alumni Association: and the Alumni Board and the University want 
to do whatever is possible to assist them in this effort. 
By the time you read this letter, you will have received the questionnaire for the self study survey being conducted for the Alumni Association. If you have not already done so, please fill out the answer sheet and mail it at once. We are anxious for as complete a response as is possible 
so that the valuable sur\'ey conclusions can be drawn from a truly representative group. 
In completing the sur\^ey questionnaire, one question in particular struck me as more difficult than most others to answer. It was the one which asked us to indicate the main reason that moti­vated our contributions to Notre Dame. It listed choices between loyalty, interest, gratitude, con­viction, Notre Dame taught me to live, football ticket preference and others. Most Notre Dame men could check all the answers because our devotion to Notre Dame is composed of elements of each. It is difficult to pinpoint tlie main reason. It is like trying to explain the spirit of Notre Dame. We know it is there. We have experienced it for years and yet we find it hard to define. We are certain, however, diat this spirit is composed in varying measure of loyalty, interest, grati­tude and conviction and is the reason behind the spiritual and material success of our Alumni 
Association and our great University. 
W. E. Cotter, Jr. President 
FRINTED AT AVE MARIA FRCSS 






