The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Vol. 33 No. 6 
November-December 1935 
James E. Aniistrong, '25, Editor John N. Cackley, Jr., '37 Managing Editor 

DAME 
V, 
ALUMNUS 
THE OTHER FIFTY hiR...joUj. (javaiiauqlt, e.s.e-
Sec page 3 

Culliton Succeeds McCarthyj As Commerce College Dean 
New Deoelopment Program Organized 
Dean James E. McCarthy has been appointed Dean Emeritus of the Col­lege of Commerce and Dr. James W. Culliton has succeeded him as Dean, according to an announcement by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., presi­dent. In his new post McCarthy will be in cliarge of the College of Com­merce development program. Culliton has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1951. 
During Dean McCardiy's 32-year tenure, commerce school enrollment has grown from less than 400 to more tlian 1,500 students, making it the 
DEAN EMERITUS McCARTHY 
largest college at the University. At the same time die college's curriculum and faculty were greatly expanded. 
"Notre Dame men everywhere are indebted to Dean McCarthy for his generous and devoted ser\'ice for so many years," Father Hesburgh stated. "We wish him continued success as dean emeritus in promoting the Col­lege of Commerce development, which will make possible the full fruition of his life's work: the presence everywhere in industrial affairs of highly competent Notre Dame men whose knowledge is matched by integrity of purpose and dedication to a better America. 
"At this moment in the historical development of Notre Dame's College of Commerce, the University is fortu­nate in having Dean Emeritus Mc­Carthy dedicate himself to this newest step fonvard towards the fullest de­velopment of the College of Commerce whose growth he has guided from its earliest years," Father Hesburgh em­phasized. 
The establishment of a College of Commerce development program was recommended by Dean McCarthy and his faculty in a recent report. Father Hesburgh said. The report stressed the need for developing new and increased sources of financial support so that the college may reach its full internal de­velopment, he explained. He cited improved facilities, a librar)' and facul­ty development as essential to the con­tinued academic improvement of the college. 
Dean Emeritus McCarthy is a di­rector of the First Bank and Trust Company and the Associates Invest­ment Company, South Bend; the Ad­vertising Council, Inc., New York; and the Gerity-Michigan Corporation, Ad­rian, Mich. He is a trustee of the Foundation for Economic Education; a member of the American Marketing Association, the National Association of Cost Accountants and the American Institute of Management, and he is associated in an advisory capacity with Junior Achievement, Inc. 
Bom in Holyoke, Mass., he graduated from Columbia in 1916 and joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1921 as an instructor in foreign trade. He is the author of The Physical Assets of the State of Indiana and the Earnings and Distribution of Income of Indiana Corporations. 
During the past three years Culliton has been director of Notre Dame's Pro­gram for Administrators, which in­tegrates a broad liberal arts education with specialized training. 
From 1937 to 1941 and again from 1944 to 1951 Dr. Culliton was an associate professor at Harvard Univer­sity, where he received his master's degree and doctorate. He took his undergraduate work at Canisius Col­lege, Buffalo, N. Y, During \Vorl(?~ War II he was executive director of the Post War Readjustment Committee of the Commonwealth of Massachu­setts. He also taught for one year at Boston College (1941-42). 
Dr. Culliton is the author of several publications of the Har\'ard Graduate School of Business Administration. Among them are IVriting Business Cases, The Management of Market­ing, The Use and Disposition of Ships^ and Shipyards at the End of WorlcT' War II, and Make or Buy. A native of Buffalo, N. Y., Culliton is married to the former Jane K. Hogan of that city. They have four sons. 
DEAN CULLITON 

Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 


31 THE OTHER FIFTY 
By REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, Dheclor, Unircrsity of Notre Dame Foundation 
Corporations Ask: Do Your Alumni Support N.DJ 
Slightly more than fifty percent of Notre Dame alumni took part in the Annual Alumni Fund for 1954-55. That was a good record, notably good compared with the showings of the alumni of many other colleges and universities. 
If, percentage-wise, the participation of Notre Dame alumni in the Annual Fund could be increased, the effect for Notre Dame, just now, would be incalculable. One very large foundation is trying to de­cide the particular educational institutions which will receive parts of one of the great­est sums ever to be given away. This foundation is circulating questionnaires among universities and colleges. Signifi­cantly, this foundation wants to know, Hov/ many alumni are supporting your in­stitution? 
Of all university and college alumni, certainly Notre Dame's are among the most loyal. When they sense an oDportunity for the University, they are likely to take advantage of it. But a large part of our alumni are young. Some 65 percent of them have been graduated since 1940. This means that 65 percent are under 36 years of age. A large number are raising families, sending sons and daughters to school, helping build churches, schools and hospitals, obligating themselves for in­surance as protection for their loved ones. 
These alumni are saying to themselves, "In a few years, I shall do my part for Notre Dame. I cannot do it now." 
If, however, participation of Notre Dame alumni can be advanced from fifty to ninety percent—or 100 percent—it is almost inevitable that corporations, non-alumni supporters, and foundations will take even a more generous and lively interest in the programs of Notre Dame. The number of alumni who participate in supporting the University, by a gift of one dollar or even fifty cents, is important to­day, not only in itself but in what it will influence others to do. 
Because of this fact. Foundation Week was started on the campus last year. Foundation Week was conducted by the students themselves. They wanted a large response from the student body. So one of the rules they established was this: No student is permitted to give more than five cents. Nearly every student on the cam­pus was approached. The results were remarkable. Ninety-two percent of the student body on campus gave to the Foundation. This was an expression of each student that he assumed some responsi­bility in the work of the Foundation, that he understood what the Foundation was trying to do, and that he heartily endorsed the Foundation Program. 
The importance now placed upon the number of alumni and students who assist the University is likely to be continued for many years. By this direct appeal to alum­ni and by the Foundation Week, we hope to instill in Notre Dame men the habit of giving what they can every year. If the alumnus gives one dollar, and this is all that his budget permits, he may derive merit as great as another who gives one thousand dollars. Not only that, but his dollar may be multiplied by several times, through the influence his participation will have upon corporations, foundations, and non-alumni friends of Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame Alumrms, November-December, 1955 
Grants Assist N.D. Research Projects '"^ >


£AitM*d eo4tuH^HU ..iTsi::;^ 
The Class of 1906 will celebrate its 
Golden Jubilee next June. 
^Vhat is it that, through the years, has made it one of the unique and one of the great Class­es? 
Sixty-six Senior pictures in the first DOME — the year­book founded by tliis Class. 
Fift)'-eight degrees Jim Annstrong awarded! 
Perhaps it was the impetus of the first year of the golden presidency of the late Rev. John AV. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., whose orator)' and pei-sonality raised the focus of Notre Dame from the Midwest to the world. 
Undoubtedly it was in part the liistoric giants, the pillars of learning and tradition wliose pictures as ad­ministrators and faculty graced that first DOME. 
AVhen you start to name names, you are always in trouble. But asking the indulgence of those who may be omitted, let me call some of the names of that Class of 1906, inscribed in the histor\' of the past and the present of Notre Dame, and stiil pushing pioneer paths into the future. 
Twelve members of the Class re­mained as priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross and two became secular priests—can you picture the Church today if those same percentages pre­vailed? And the caliber of the men! 
Father Charles L. O'Donnell, CS>.C, priest, poet, AVorld AVar I chaplain, president of Notre Dame 1928-19."4. builder, scholar. Fathers Jim GalJa­gan. Gene Biu-ke, Charles Dorcmus, Ed Finnegan, Con Hagerty, John Mc Ginn, John Ryan—^all authors of pages of Notre Dame history as administra­tors, teachers, prefects, but mostly as personalities. 
The Gushing Hall of Engineering— gift of the late John F. Gushing whose Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Co. development included great contribu­tions by engineering Classmates Feeley and Dubbs, and later many more men of Notre Dame. 
The Morris Inn—gift of the late E. M. Morris, long-time Trustee and advisor of Notre Dame's development. 
T. B. Cosgrove, another valued Lay Tmstee of the University, outstanding Los Angeles attorney and leader of Notre Dame interests. 
.-Arthur Funk, LaCrosse, Wis., manu­facturer, whose interest in Notre Dame was translated into his estate with a $30,000 bequest this year, but whose family and activities contributed to Notre Dame all th.rough his active life. 
Frank "Shag" Shaughncssy, a pillar of athletic integrity and international friendship, as long-time president of the International League, a baseball great. 
John F. Shea, who, widi his brother Rev. Michael Shea, '04, is remembered by Notre Dame men everj'time their "Victoiy March" is played, from the Notre Dame campus to the farthest comers of the world. 
Those of us whose Classes passed 100 (for the first time in 1917), who watched the awarding of degrees climb to the 300s in the 1920s, and to the 1,000s in the 1940s and 1950s, can reflect on what Notre Dame can be, if at our Golden Jubilee our Class record is only a reasonable fraction of the spiritual, educational, national, and financial record of that Class of 1906, whose parting words in tliat first DOME were: 
"With hearts full of confidence we set our faces toward the future, await­ing that day when our Alma Mater, still lifting far toward the Indiana blue the massive golden dome from which the Virgin Queen looks down bene­diction on Notre Dame du Lac, shall be and shall be so considered by all, one of the great universities of the world." 
This was their faith—their dream at the beginning. Our inadequate summar>' and roll call capture in small measure the accompanying works of 50 years—works that have gone fartlier than any similar group of alumni to make their dream come true. 
It is a text, a challenge, and an inspiration for all other Classes. 

Notre Dame has received grants} totalling $49,556 from the National \ Institutes of Health for research at its Lobund Institute and its departments of biolog)' and chemistr>'. 
The Lobund Institute was awarded a grant of $29,814 for research di­rected by Professor James A. Rejniiei-s on "The Rearing and Study of Germ-free Animals." Rcynicrs is the founder and director of the Institute which hag developed the gennfree animal as a unique tool in biological and medical research. 
Professor Charles E. Brambel, head of Notre Dame's biolog)- department, received a grant of $12,193 in support of his research on "Blood Coagulation Inhibitors." A gi:ant of §4,358 was awarded to Dr. Donald T. Chalkley, assistant professor of biologj-, for re­search on "The Differentiation in Vitro of Regeneration Blastema." v' 
Rev. Thomas J. Lane, C.S.C., and Dr. James V. Quagliano, both of the chemistr)' department faculty, will share a $3,191 grant for "Studies of Aminoacid and Protein Metal Com­plexes." 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as sec­ond class matter Oct. 1, 1930, at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Ind., under ••* the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 

BENGAL NEEDS YOU 
SEMINARIANS SPONSOR ANNUAL CHRISTMAS a\R D DRIVE 
Three Selections—Highest Quality Assort­ments—True Chnstian Inspiration 
*
 Traditional reltgiims painting^i of famoius 'Old Masters' 

*
 Modern liturgical assortment,, simple—yet dignified 

*
 '55 selection of Bcrta Hummel Christmas cards 


$1.00 per box 
MOREAU SEMINARY MISSION SOCIETY' Notre Dame, Indiana 

Notre Dame Alumnus, November-DecembcTt 1955 
Catholic workingmen . "have always 
been extremely well represented in the 
George Meany Receives 1955 ranks of organized labor and have probably produced more than their proportionate share of outstanding labor leaders." He attributed this, in 
Laetare Medal in Washington 
part, to "the friendly attitude of the 
For his "conspicuous leadership in the ranks of labor" and his "practical Christian life," George Meany, presi­dent of the American Federation of Labor, was presented with the 1955 
VLaetare Medal. Notre Dame formally awarded the medal to Meany October 18 at a dinner in the Mayflower Hotel in Washington, D. C. 
The Most Rev. Patrick A. O'Boyle, archbishop of Washington, conferred the medal upon the veteran labor offi­cial in the presence of Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, and 200 guests of the University. Thomas E. Murray, a member of the U.S. Atomic Energy 
[..,Commission and the Laetare Medalist of 1952, seived as toastmaster. 
Meany is the first labor leader to receive the Laetare Medal.since it was established in 1883. It is generally regarded as the most significant annual award made to Catholic laymen in the United States. 
In a major address on "The Church and Labor," Archbishop O'Boyle hailed Meany as "the most important and most influential labor leader in the world." It is indeed fortunate, the Washington prelate declared, "that the number one labor leader in the free world is a religious-minded man, a man who firmly believes in God and in God's moral law and is proud to be identified as a loyal communicant of his own Church." 
Archbishop O'Boyle noted that 
Father Hesburgh looks on approvingly as Archbishop O'Boyle pins the 1955 Laetare Medal on AF of L President George Meany in Washington, D.C., October 18. 
Church in America to the cause of trade unionism." 
The Archbishop of Washington em­phasized that the Church "has no ulterior motives in the field of organ­ized labor. . . . On the contrary, her only motive has been to promote the cause of justice and charity by en­couraging her members to practice these virtues at every possible oppor­tunity in cooperation with all other men of good will." 
The Church believes unions are de­desirable and necessary. Archbishop O'Boyle said, "not only for the pro­tection and advancement of the work­er's interests, but, even, more im­portant, for the development of a sound social order." 
TV Station Dedication Honors David Samoff 
WNDU-TV, Notre Dame's new tele­vision station, was formally dedicated October 1, during a weekend of cere­monies which also included a special convocation and a network telecast from the campus. 
At the academic convocation Sep­tember 30, an honorary Doctor of Science degree was bestowed on Briga­dier General David SamofF, board chairman of the Radio Corporation of America. General SamofF, a pioneer of the American radio and television industry, delivered the principal ad­dress at the convocation. 
Also on Friday evening, singer Eddie Fisher's popular television program, "Coke Time," was broadcast from the campus over the NBC network. 
At the formal dedication ceremonies the following day, the Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, Notre Dame president, blessed the station's new studio-oifice building, constructed this summer immediately north of the Drill Hall on the campus. 
WNDU-TV, which transmits on UHF channel 46, actually signed on the air and began operations July 15. 
(Ed. Note: Notre Dame magazine %vill publish a full-length feature ar­ticle on the TV Station dedication in the Winter, 1955 issue.) 
Notre Dame Alumntts, November-December, 1955 
CHICAGO—The club's lecture series featured Father Charles Sheedy, CS.C., dean of the .Arts and Letters College, as the first spealier. Left to right: Club President Joseph McCabe, Committee Chairman Maurice Lee and Father Sheedy. 

Chicagoans Begin Series of Lectures 
In the May-June issue of ALUMNUS, Jim Armstrong wrote a thought-pro­voking editorial on the need for in­tellectual activities on alumni clubs' calendars of events. 
Coinddentally, the Notre Dame Club of Chicago had long been con­sidering such an activity, and shortly before the article was' published the club had arranged a series of informal lectures by representatives of the Uni­versity. 
The series began October 9 with Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, CS.C, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, speaking on "Liberal Education To­day: Its Curriculum and Objectives." The second lecture in the series was held November 13. 
Conducted at the Sheraton Hotel in Chicago, the informal series is open to wives and friends as well as alumni. No fee is charged, although voluntary contributions are asked to defray the low costs of the lectures. "We don't hope for anything too lofty or far-reaching in this program," say Chair­man Maurice Lee and Club President Joe McCabe. "In fact, the attempt at anything monumental would defeat the whole purpose of the activity—to do something to encourage the in­tellectual life of the club. 

"AVe know that many of our mem­bers belong to Great Books courses, study clubs and the like. \Ve feel that a closer contact with the men who either supervise or participate in stu­dent instruction at the University will be invaluable in increasing interest in intellectual matters. 
"\Ve're hoping for the best—but keeping the pressure off." 
CIVIC DINNER CELEBRATES ST. MARY'S CENTENNIAL 
A civic testimonial dinner honored St. Mary's College, October 13, on its 100th anniversary. Sponsoring organi­zations included the South Bend-Mishawaka Committee of 100, South Bend Association of Commerce and the Mishawaka Chamber of Commerce. About 600 people attended the affair held in LeMans Hall on the St. Mary's campus. The principal speaker was Dr. Frederick L. Hovde, president of Purdue University. Others on the 


Plan Field JVork For Penologists 
Students enrolled in Notre Dame's, graduate Correctional Administration! Program will receive full-time fields work experience'in selected con-ectionall agencies througiiout the country begin-l ning ne-xt Spring. | 
Experienced personnel in probation^ parole and other correctional agencies will supervise the students' work during the Spring semester. The field work will supplement courses such as Crim­inology, Juvenile Delinquency, Social Case Work Theor)', Probation and Pa­role, and the Administration of Correc­tional Institutions wiiich will be offered at the University during the Fall and Summer. In addition, the students will be required to attend two in-service training workshops on the campus iii^' June. 
Notre Dame first offered special training in the fields of probation, parole and prison administration in 1929. It is believed that this was the first training of this type offered at any American university. The course of studies which evolved through the years was discontinued temporarily during World \Var II and formally organized in a new Correctional Administration Program in 1947. Since that time 74* Notre Dame students have received master's degrees in this specialized field. 
Robert E. Pollitt of the Wisconsin Bureau of Probation and Parole has been appointed director of the Cor­rectional Administration Program. Serving as advisors to the Program are Dr. Frank T. Flynn, University of Chi­cago; Commissioner Thomas J. Mc Hugh, New York Department of Cor­rection; Hugh P. O'Brien, chairman, Indiana Board of Correction; Russell 
G. Oswald, Director of Corrections, Wisconsin Department of Public Wel­fare; and Dr. J. P. Shalloo, University of Pennsylvania. 
program were: Sister M. Madeleva, j CS.C, president of St. Mary's College, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CS.C J John A. Scott, '38, Mayor of South] Bend, and Albert L. Doyle, Mayor of| Mishawaka. Dr. Alex Jardine, super-^J intendent of schools in the city of South f Bend, served as toastmaster. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 
(Ed. Note: This is the initial pre­sentation of ALUMNUS news devoted exclusively to activities of the Law 
School and the Notre Dame Law Asso­ciation. Preparation of material was 


Notre Dame Law School 
through the cooperation of Dean 
Law Association Directors 
Listed below are the new officers and members of the Board of Directors of the Notre Dame Law Association. 
Officers for 1955-56 are: 

•-Honorary President, Hugh E. AVall President, Norman J. Bany Vice-President, William E. Voor Secy.-Treas., Poratelle Downing Executive Secy., F. Gerard Feeney 
Newly elected members, with term ending in June 1958: Roger P. Brennan, Cleveland, Ohio John J. Locher, Jr., Cedar Rapids, 
Iowa. William E. Voor, South Bend, Ind. John J. Ryan, Farmingdale, N. Y. 
Members whose term ends in June 1957: George Brautigam, Miami, Fla. Poyntelle Downing, Decatur, 111. 
J. Lee Johnson III, Fort Worth, Te.x. James H. Kelleher, Kent, AVash. 
Members whose term ends in June 1956: Norman J. Bany, Chicago, 111. Patrick J. Fisher, Indianapolis, Ind. Thomas L. McKevitt, Washington, 

... D. C. Thomas J. Welch, Kewanee, 111. 
Ex-officio members for 1955-56: Hugh E. Wall, honorary president, Dayton, Ohio. 
F. Gerard Feeney, executive secretary. South Bend, Ind. 
Demonstration Trial on Campus 

Washington Hall took on the atmo­sphere of a courtroom October 8 when the Notre Dame Law School presented 
<"'a demonstration trial in the campus theater. Judge F. Kenneth Dempsey of the Superior Court of St. Joseph County (Ind.) presided. A jury of Law School freshmen delivered the verdict after hearing the evidence brought out by South Bend Attorneys Roland Oben­chain, Jr., and George Beamer, '29, representing the plaintiff and defend-, ant respectively. Purpose of this demonstration trial, 
•taccording to Dean Joseph O'Meara of the Notre Dame College of Law, "was to galvanize the interest of the students at the threshold of the schoolyear, and to enable them to bring to their studies the greater insight afforded by seeing for themselves, at first hand, how the judicial process works." 
New Students From 18 States 
The First Year Class this fall has 

in many respects a varied background. 
They come from 18 states and terri­
tories and from 30 colleges and uni­
versities. Their ages extend from 20 
to 30, with their average age 23.4. 
One-third of the class are veterans and 
one-sixth are married. Three of the 
students have advanced degrees: one 
PH.D. and two M.A.'s. 
The 18 states and territories repre­sented are: New York, Indiana, Illi­nois, New Jersey, Ohio, Hawaii, Pen­nsylvania, Massachusetts, Michigan, Connecticut, Texas, Florida, Califor­nia, Tennessee, Minnesota, Iowa, Kansas, and Washington. 
The 30 colleges include: Notre Dame (less than half the students come from here), Canisius, Yale, Uni­vereity of Michigan, St. Peter's, Michi­gan State, UCLA, Seton Hall, Bridge­water State Teachers' College, Union, Baldwin-Wallace, University of Ha­waii, Minnesota State Teachers' Col­lege, Loras, University of Kansas, Trin­ity, The Citadel, St. Mary's, Columbia, John Carroll, Aquinas, Duquesne,­Lafayette, Xavier, University of Day­ton, LaSalle, Providence, Ottawa, Uni­versity of Detroit, and Michigan State Normal. 
Luna Joins Faculty, Edits Forum 

Dr. Antonio de Luna has been ap­pointed visiting professor of natural law at Notre Dame and acting editor of The Natural Law Forum, the new publication of the Notre Dame Law School. 
An authority on both natural and international law. Professor Luna has been a faculty member at the Univer­sity of Madrid since 1932. He is one of several internationally recognized figures appointed to the Notre Dame faculty under the University's Dis­tinguished Professors Program. 
The Natural Law Forum, which Professor Luna will edit, will publish Joseph O'Meara). 
articles of the highest scholarship on natural law in the context of today's world. The pubfication will feature reports on developments in the field of natural law and is expected to make Notre Dame the international center of information on the subject. 
Add Kellenberg, Broden on Leave 
A new fuUtime member of the Notre 

Dame law faculty is Assistant Prof. 
Conrad L. Kellenberg, formerly asso­
ciated with the prominent New York 
law firm of Spencer and Iserman. 
Professor Kellenberg earned his bachelor of arts degree in 1949 at St. John's University and his LL.6. from Columbia University in 1952. That year he was admitted to practice in New York, and in 1953 he joined Spencer and Iserman. 
Assistant Prof. Thomas F. Broden, '49, has been granted a two-year leave of absence to accept an appointment as counsel for the Committee on Judi­ciary of the House of Representatives. He has been serving in that capacity since February. 

Clark Presides over Moot Court 

Supreme Court Justice Tom C. Clark was one of three federal judges presiding at the sixth annual Moot Court Competition of the Notre Dame Law School October 25. 
Also hearing the final arguments of a hypothetical case were Judge Potter Stewart of the U.S. Court of Appeals, Sixth Circuit, Cincinnati, and Judge 
W. Lynn Parkinson of the U.S. District Court for Northern Indiana, South Bend. 
The four Notre Dame law student finalists in the campus competition were: Ronald P. Mealey, Ridgewood, 
N. J.; Edward J. Griffin, Knoxville, Tenn.; William P. Fagan, Newark, 
N. J., and Edward F. Broderick, Jr., Morristown, N. J. 
Mealey and Broderick, who were winners in the finals, received the Manion Award, and the right to repre­sent the Law School in the regional round of" National Moot Court Com­petition in Chicago, November 17-19. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 


Oklahoma City Club Names 'ND Boy Of the Year' 
Something different in the way of awards was initiated this year by the Notre Dame Club of Oklahoma City. While most alumni clubs have Man of the Year awards, the Sooner State club has also chosen a Notre Dame Boy of the Year for Oklahoma, and will make a similar presentation annually hereafter. 
The 1955 winner is David Anthony Brown of Mount St. Mary's High School, Oklahoma City. He was se­lected from a group of ten boys en­rolled in Catholic high schools in the state who have been rated as outstand­ing by their respective school prin­cipals. 
A gold plaque with the dome in relief was presented to young Mr. Brown and to his school by Robert McFarland, past president of tlie alum­ni club, at Mount St. Mary's com­mencement e.xercises. 
The plaque, inscribed with the name of the winner and his school, will be 

The club's Boy-of-the-Year presentation is a neu' feature of alumni program in Okla-Iioma City. Gold plaque is retained for one year by winner and high school he attended. 
The of Notre Dame Club Oklahoma City 
hereby declares that it recognizes as the Notre Dame Boy of the Year for 
who has, by his intelligent, Christian 
• leadership and his fine scholastic standing proved himself capable of further achievements of the type deemed so valuable by Notre Dame 

Alumni. 

retained by the school until next year's recipient is selected. 
Brown also received a scroll naming him Notre Dame Boy of the Year for 1955 "who has, by his intelligent. Chris­tian leadership and his fine scholastic standing proved himself capable of further achievements of the type deemed so valuable by Notre Dame Alumni." 
Each candidate for the award was given a small Notre Dame lapel pin. 
The club submitted application forms to the various Catholic high schools in the state for completion by the school principal. Each was asked to name a candidate, "selected by a committee of teachers who have in­structed him during his high school years," as the school's official entry, and to comment on the applicant's qualifi­cations. The application stressed intelli­gence, religion, character, leadership, general behavior, appearance and out­side activities as the points upon which the award winner is chosen. 
Candidates are not obliged to be 1 prospective Notre Dame students, and their collegiate affiliations are not a factor in the judging. > 
After the applications are received from tlie high schools, a committee of four Notre Dame alumni pass on the applicants. The announcement of tlie winner is made at the club's Notre Dame dinner each year. 
Oklahoma City Club President Ed Kavanaugh reports that the program, organized by Foundation City Chair­man Haskell Askew and Dr. Al Dres­cher "had such an enthusiastic recep­tion that we have high hopes thisf activity will become one of the features of our club." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 

AMPHITHEATER HONORS ' MEMORY OF MARINE 
Dedication of the amphitheater in Notre Dame's Student Center October 1 paid tribute to an alumnus who gave lus life for liis country and his earthly goods to the University. 
Second Lt. Elmore Smith, USMCR, '50, was killed in action September 16, 1951 on the central front in Korea. In his will, the Marine left all his possess­ions toward the rebuilding of the Stu-
Vdent Center. 
Not long after this initial donation, work was begun on converting the Old Science Building into a center for student activities. A gift from Joseph LaFortune of Tulsa, Okla., member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees, enabled the Center to be completed • in 1954. 
A native of the BrorLx, N. Y., Lt. Smith received his commission upon graduation from Notre Dame and was 
-.called to active duty in October 1950. After training at the Marine Corps School at Quantico, Va. and service at Camp Lejeune, N. C, he requested combat duty and was attached to the First Marine Division in Korea. 
The Smith Amphitheater seats 100 and is used as a television viewing room by the students and as the meet­ing place for the Student Senate. 
A portrait of the lieutenant who remembered his fellow students now hangs in the amphitheater. 
Engineers in Self-Study 
Notre Dame is conducting a self-study of its College of Engineering to determine the type of education most likely to develop both the student's pro­fessional competence and those attri­butes which would prepare him for leadership in other areas of life. 
The study, which will continue through May 1956, has been made possible by a $35,000 grant from the 
'"Carnegie Corporation of New York. To be explored are the proportion of liberal arts to technical courses, the relationship between the physical sci­ences and engineering subjects, and the proper balance between general and specialized undergraduate education. The Self-Study Committee is headed by Dr. Ernest J. Wilhelm, associate professor of chemical engineering, and composed of other engineering pro­fessors. The College of Science and 
•''the College of Arts & Letters are repre­sented on sub-committees. 
Gifts by Classes To 13th Alumni Fund 
No. Con-Class tributors Amount 
 and before 18 $5,640.00 

1901 4 234.00 1902 5 560.00 1903 7 325.00 
1904 9 750.00 
6 735.00 

1906 ..... 8 57,567.06 
1907 . 6 190.00 
1908 8 595.00 
1909 7 266.00 
6 1,185.00 

1911 16 695.00 
1912 12 232.00 
1913 17 626.00 
1914 „ 24 1,123.00 
 24 6,655.00 

1916 „. 21 17,273.59 
1917 28 1,316.00 
1918 21 789.00 
1919 15 580.00 
 25 1,157.00 

1921 , 36 2,506.00 
1922 37 3,112.00 
1923 63 8,160.58 
1924 63 4,830.00 
 104 3,798.00 

1936 98 3,238.00 
1927 101 4,562.56 
1928 118 4,351.00 
1929 108 6,289.69 
121 3,453.00 1931 137 6,955.15 1932 _. 122 4,441.00 1933 141 3,861.36 1934 121 2,867.50 
129 3,735.70 1936 128 2,511.50 1937 128 2,511.50 1938 123 2,764.50 1939 143 3,743.50 
. 176 5,507.05 1941 ..._ 162 3,101.00 1942 164 3,725.00 1943 169 3,052.50 1944 ...152 2,599.50 
...103 1,910.00 1946 69 1,137.50 1947 168 1,992.00 1948 298 3,773.50 1949 ..._ 398 5,208.50 
327 4,150.72 1951 297 3,483.10 1952 282 3,853.00 1953 261 2,343.00 1954 214 2,302.75 
24 580.00 




FR. MURPHY CELEBRATES GOLDEN JUBILEE MASS 
Fifty years in the priesthood were commemorated by Rev. Timothy R. Murphy, CSC , '01, in a Mass of Thanks­giving July 10 at St. Joseph's Church in the tott-n of his birth, St. Joseph, Mich. Rev. Thomas Bren­nan, C.S.C, deliver­ed the sermon at the Jubilee Mass. 
On July 5, the an­
Rev. Timothy R. 

niversary of his ordi­
Mmrhy, CS.C 

nation. Father Mur­phy celebrated a Mass of Thanksgiving for members of the Holy Cross com­munity in Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame canipus. 
Father Tim spent several years at Notre Dame, serving as rector of Sorin Hall from 1905 to 1907 and as prefect of discipline from 1907 to 1910. 
He has done parish work in New Orleans, La., Austin, Te.\-., Portland, Ore., and Kalamazoo, Mich. He has also been chaplain at St. Mary's Coir lege and at the Holy Cross Brothers' Columba Hall. ' 
He is now retired and living at the Community Infirmary at Notre Dame. 
Father Tim was a student at Notre Dame from 1896 to 1901 and also studied at Catholic University. 
An Idea and Example 
This letter speaks for itself: 
Notre Dame Foimdation University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 
Dear Sir; 
Enclosed you will find my twenty-dollar contribution to the 1955 Foundation Fund Campaign. It is in keeping with my fond wish so long as I am able, to increase my contribution yearly by five dollars. 
It is even with more pleasure I contribute this year knowing a bro­ther wll receive the full benefits of the Foundation by enrolling as a freshman in September. 
With every best wish for con­tinued success. 
Very Truly Yours 

Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 

Notre Dame Grad, Native of Guam, Fulfills Dream, of Joining Marines 
The sharp commands and the clean 
cut appearance of the drill instructor 
impressed the youngster. Some day he, 
too, ii'ould be a Marine. 
He was only six years old .. . a native 
of Guam. Since he could remember 
he had watched the Marine sentinel 
walk post near hb father's home and 
at the Beachmaster's Office where his 
father was Chief Custom Inspector for 
many years. The young Guamian 
had decided on the near impossible; 
he would go to America and join the 
Marines when he was older. 
At the age of sbc he was a member 
of a Marine-coached drill team per­
forming the Old Corps' "squads right" 
drill in the Plaza de Espana in the 
capital city of Agana. This was an 
annual event in which drill teams from 
ever)' village competed. However, the 
drills and the young boy's dreams 
ended abruptly in 1941 when the Japa­
nese captured Guam, but both ripened 
to maturity at a later date. 
Today this Guamian, Captain Vin­
cente T. Blaz, a 1951 Notre Dame 
graduate, is "Baker" Battery Com­
mander, 10th Marine Regiment, and 
Marine Division. His story is one of 
success, patriotism, and devotion to the 
Marine Corps. 

When the Japanese forces landed on Guam, young Blaz had finished the sbcth grade in one of tlie American-run island schools. For the nc^t two years he was forced, along with other natives, to attend the Japanese-spon­sored schools to learn the Japanese language and customs and to forget American ways. 
The American foiK:cs returned to Guam several years later and Vincente Blaz watched tlie Marines retrain and leave for the Iwo Jima campaign. 
Following the Iwo Jima operation 

Dates to Remember 1955-56 

Universal Communion Sunday, Dec. 11, 1955. Universal Notre Dame Night, April 9, 1956. Class Reunion Weekend, June 8-9-10, 1956. 
the youthful Blaz met a Guamian among the battle-hardened Marines who stopped at Guam on their way to the States. Set^eant Major Henry A. Herrero, 3rd Division sergeant major, who left Guam in the 1920's and later joined the Marines, had paused in war-torn Agana to inquire about relatives. 
In the rebuilt American school, young Blaz studied hard to re-learn the English grammar he had forgotten. His big chance came in 1947 with the announcement by the Bishop of Guam that competitive examinations would be given to select natives for study in American universities. The young Guamian's dreams were beginning to come true; he won a scholarship to Notre Dame. 
Arriving in San Francisco on the first leg of his journey to Notre Dame, a bewildered Blaz revealed his lack of geographical knowledge of the United States and an affinity for ta.xi cabs: he directed a "cabbie" to drive him to the university. The obliging driver deposited his fare across the bay at Oakland's Notre Dame School for Girls where he received a brief ge­ography lesson and the information that it was a three day train trip to 
his destination. 
Chicago was tlie end of the line A and Vincente, still relying on taxi cabs, ! ordered another driver to take him to Notre Dame. Comirienting on the ride, Capt. Blaz jovially says, "About 97 miles and 35 dollars later I was at my destination." 
In 1950 Congress passed legislation to grant American citizenship to all natives of Guam. The following year when Blaz graduated from Notre Dame ; with a Bachelor of Science in biologj'j.. he reported for active duty with the ' Marine Corps as a 2nd Lieutenant. 
Assignment as assistant legal officer at Camp Pendleton, Calif., followed his attendance of the Naval School of ' Justice. Transferred to Japan, he served as provost marshall with the 9th Marine Regiment. Later he went to Korea where he served nine months as a company commander with the I 5th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Di-) vision. He returned to the United, 'i States with die division earlier this I year. 
^Vhen Capt. Blaz reported to the 10th Marine Regiment at Camp Le-; jeunc from the Army Artiller\' School, j Fort Sill, Okla., former Sgt. Maj. Her-j rero, now a commissioned warrant \ officer and the Tenth's personnel offi-\ cer, received the captain's orders and j welcomed his fellow Guamian aboard. I 
^X 

Captain Vincente T. Blaz, '31, (standing) and CWO Henry A. Herrcro arc members of thc'UJj 10th Marine Regiment. Both men are natives of Guam and first met on liberated Guam dur- *" ing World War n when Blaz was a 13-ycar-old boy. 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 

HAYES DISCUSSES Faculty Appointments for 1955-56 HISTORIAN'S ROLE Include 4 New Department Heads 
Carlton J. H. Hayes, the noted his­torian and diplomat, delivered a series of SLK lectures at Notre Dame during October on the role of the historian and the importance of history in modem culture. 
Hayes is a professor emeritus at Columbia University, where he taught for 43 years, and the author of several 

^ historical works. From 1942 to 1945 he served as United States ambassador to Spain. An honorar}' alumnus of Notre Dame, he received the Univer­sity's Laetare Medal in 1946. Subjects of the Hayes' lectures were "The Making of a Historian," "The Profession of Historian," "Some Uses and Abuses of Histor)'," "History and Humanities," "Histor>', Science and Religion" and "Is Clio a Lost Lady?" The lectures were sponsored by Notre Dame's historj' department. AVhen he received the Laetare Medal, Hayes was cited "for his bril­liant discharge of a wartime diplomatic mission that called for extraordinary' tact and forthrightness." Among his better known works are A Generation of Materialism, United States and Spain, Essays on National­ism, and Contemporary Europe Since 1870. 
New department heads at Notre Dame for 1955-56 include: department heads Dr. Charles B. Brambel, biology; Dr. G. Frank D'AIelio, chemistry; Cap­tain Thomas L. Greene, U.S.N., naval science; and Rev. Carl Hager, C.S.C., music. 
Ivan Mestrovic, the celebrated sculp­tor: Gerhart Niemeyer, political sci­ence; Thomas G. Ward, who joins the Lobund Institute staff January 1st; Christopher L. AVilson, research pro­fessor of chemistry, are new fall pro­fessor. 
Dr. Antonio de Luna has been visit­ing professor of law and acting editor of The Natural Law Forum, to be published by the Notre Dame Law School. Others appointed visiting pro­fessors are: Rev. I. M. Bochenski, O.P., and Edward F. Caldin, philoso­phy; and Michael P. Fogarty, eco­nomics. New visiting lecturers are: Frederick Bagemihl in mathematics and Ennio Canino in art and archi­tecture. 
Three new faculty members have been designated associate professors. They are Lt. Col. Paul A. Eckstein, U.S.A., militarj' science; Edward AV. Jerger, mechanical engineering; and Giuseppe Parravano, chemical engi­neering. 
After a .year's absence, Robert F. O'Brien has returned to the campus as director of the Notre Dame bands and assistant professor of music. Robert E. PoUitt, assistant professor of sociology, is the new director of the Correctional Administration Program. 
Other new assistzmt professors in­clude Donald N. Barrett, sociology; Joseph Bobik and Rev. Henri DuLac, philosophy; Joseph X. Brennan and Richard J. Schoeck, Englbh; James E. Findlay, engineering drawing; Irving 
L. Glicksberg and AVilliam M. Huebsch, mathematics; Isidore Hodes, electrical engineering; and Jerome J. Judge, economics. 
Also, David W. Juenker, physics; Conrad L. Kellenberg, law; Capt. Joseph F. Kleinsmith, U.S.A.F., air science; James P. Kohn, chemical engi­neering; Rev. John P. LjTich, C.S.V., Rev. William J. Price, Rev. John Quin­lan, and Rev. John E. Williams, C.S.V., religion; Rev. Phih"p J. Mit­chell, C.S.C., history; Sherman Sha­piro, finance; Stan S. Thomas and Kwang-t2u Yang, mechanical engi­neering; Bernard S. J. Wostmann, Lo­bund Institute; and Edmund D. Ur­banski, modem languages. 
Instmctors appointed this year are: David H. Battenfeld, Paul '.R. Baumgartner, Ross C. Brackney, Jr., Robert A. Rauch and John E. Semens, English; Rudolph S. Bottei, chemistry; Rev. AVilliam Dalton, Rev. Charies H. Henkey, Rev. George G. Kahle, C.S.C., Rev. Wilfred A. Menard, C.S.C, reli­gion; John D. Donoghue, sociology; John J. Fargen, education; Peter P. Grande, testing and guidance; Mario 
B. Gutierrez, mathematics; Knight P. Leonard and James J. Manion, bi­°'°Sy)" J^n 2- Krasnowiecki, law; Joseph J. McGraw, architecture; Ralph M. Mclnemy and .Arthur H. SchrsTiemakers, philosophy; Richard Stevens, developmental reading pro­gram; and Lt. John H. Sullivan, U.S.N., naval science. 
Judge F. Kenneth Dempsey, Robert 

A. Grant and Graham W. McGowan, all South Bend attorneys, are serving as lecturers in the Notre Dame Law School this year. James J, Cavanaugh has been named a research assistant in the law school. 
Carlton J. H. Hayes, prominent historian and former U. S. ambassador to Spain, discusses the lecture series he gave at Notre Dame this Fall with Father Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., head of History Department. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 11 
tained that distinction by his perfor­
mance during the two following sea­
sons. He was in government work for 


I '{^jUkieiks 
the past four years. 
SIX MONOGRAM 
Coach Brennan's 1955 Staff CAGERS RETURN 
Now in his second season as Notre Dame's head football coach, Teny Brennan has surrounded himself with an able staff of assistants of his own choosing, three of whom have joined him this year. 
One sure candidate as tlie most successful assistant coach in the nation would be Notre Dame End Coach Johnny Druze. The former end and captain of Fordham's "Seven Blocks of Granite" team in 1937 was end coach and chief scout for Boston College in 1939 and 1940. He handled similar duties at Notre Dame in 1941 and after four years of Navy service re­turned to the University in 1946. In his 12 years of coaching, the teams he was associated with won 100 games, lost only 11 and tied six. He is the onyl Irish assistant remaining from Frank Leahy's staff. 
Irish linemen cannot fail to be in-
John Druze Bill Fischer 

spired by the record of Line Coach Bill Fischer, now in his second year as assistant to his old teammate Terry Brennan. "Moose" started his Irish football career in 1945 as a tackle but was shifted to guard the following year. Bill was consensus AU-American in '47 and '48 and even made some A..'^. first teams in his sophomore year. He put in five years with the Chicago Cardinals and one in the hotel business before returning to Notre Dame. 
Newest addition to Brennan's staff is Bemie Witucki, former head coach at Tulsa University and now assisting Terry with the Irish backs. Bemie entered Notre Dame in 1930 but trans­ferred to George Washington Univer­sity in '32, where he played varsity foot­ball. Next stop was coaching South Bend's AVashington High School, where he amassed a record of 60 wins against SLK ties and only ten losses. After three years in the Navy, he directed the Evansville, Ind. Memorial High School teams through two successful seasons 
Bill WaUh Bemie Witucki 

and ser\'ed one year on the staff of the professional Chicago Rockets before moving on to Tulsa. 
Line Coach Bill Walsh was an "iron man" teammate of Brennan and Fischer from 1945 through '48, playing in all 38 games during that tenure and starting in 27 of them. His reputation for heaNY duty was maintained in the professional ranks during six seasons with the Pittsburgh Steelers. He was starting center in every game during his pro career. Although Bill helped tutor the Irish centers during 1954 Spring practice, this is his first season as a coach. 
The number of sophomores in Terry Brennan's lineup this season attests to the importance of the freshman coach­-- _, ing job. The man picked by Brennan to de­velop n ext y e a r's varsity Candida tes is Jack Landry, three-year mon­ogram winner at fullback for the Irish during tlie 1948, '49 and 
Jack Landry 

'50 campaigns, Jack picked up a reputation as a workhorse and a "'mudder" in the Northwestern game in 1948 and main 
Coach Johnny Jordan will open his fifdi season at the basketball helm at Notre Dame with six monogram re­turnees, four of diem regulars from last year's squad. 
Returning starters are: Seniors Lloyd •> Aubrey, center; John Fannon, forvvard and Junior Forward John Smyth. 
Aubrey was second in team scoring last season. Captain Fannon is an out­standing rebound man, and Smyth, another rebound specialist, was third scorer last year.. At guard, Weiman developed into a. defensive star and spectacular passer near the close of the 1954-55 season. 
Coach Jordan's main problem is fill­ing the other guard spot, vacated by >^ last year's captain and top point-maker. Jack "Junior" Stephens. 
Fighting for the slot will be three juniors, monogram winners Lee Ayotte and Paul Homung and reser\'e Joe Morelli, and a pair of sophomores. Bob Devine and Ed Gleason. Devine, a leading candidate, is a sharp defensive man and a skilled passer. 
Other sophs include John McCarthy, Don McNeill, Jr., and Jim AVilliams. Spelling Aubrey at center will be Jack ^ Bedan, tallest member of the squad. 
High points for the Irish cagers this season will be the trip to New Orleans to defend their Sugar Bowl crown, the annual eastern tour, games with De-Paul and Loyola'in Chicago Stadium, and eight with Big Ten quintets. 
Grid Mark .830 in 65 Years 

Notre Dame began the 1955 season —its 66th of collegiate football com­petion—with an all-time won-lost ^ record showing 415 wins, 85 losses and 34 ties. This is a winning percentage of .830, exclusive of ties. The Fight­ing Irish have enjoyed 18 undefeated ­seasons and ten undefeated, untied campaigns. 

Home Games Sold Out Early 
All four Notre Dame home games this season were sold out as of August 
31. This marks the first time since the 1947 football season that all of the ^ home games have been sold out prior to the start of the season. 
12 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 

^Shaw Named First 
Noted Diplomats Lecture 
Air Academy Coach 

Lawrence T. "Buck" Shaw, '22, has been appointed the first head football 

On International Affairs 
coach of the new U. S. Air Force Acad­e m y, Colorado Springs, Colo., under a five-year contract effect­ive January' 1, 1956. He will 
. also be athletic advisor and counsellor to the Air Force Acad­emy Athletic Association dur­
"Buck" Shaw 

ing that time. Shaw, one of Rockne's earliest stars, began his career as a line coach at the University of Nevada after his gradua­tion from Notre Dame. He was also head coach at North Carolina State, .J Santa Clara and the University of California. He piloted the professional San Francisco 49ers for nine years be­fore coming to the Academy last Sum­mer as civilian consultant to the foot­ball staff. The Academy's initial season consists of an eight game schedule against freshman football teams from the Rocky Mountain region. From this in­auspicious beginning, "Buck" will have the task of building a team eventually strong enough to challenge its ser\'ice ' • rivals Army and Navy—and some day perhaps Notre Dame. 

First Game Is Game of Firsts 

The Notre Dame-Southem Metho­dist game September 24 was the oc­casion for some "firsts" in N.D. foot­ball history. The Irish took the field in white jerseys for the first time, and this was the initial contest played on the newly-seeded Notre Dame stadium 
• turf. When Paul Homung kicked a 38­yard field goal against S.M.U., it was the first three-pointer he had ever kicked as a high school or college gridder. It was also the first Irish field aroal since the 1953 Purdue game. 

Simonich Sped Lemek Along 

Irish Captain Ray Lemek is one of many Notre Dame athletes who were coached in high school by Fighting 
jilrish alumni. Former N.D. Fullback Ed Simonich, '39, tutored Lemek at Heelan High in Siou.x City. 
Distinguished diplomats and political scientists from the United States and abroad are participating in a new Notre Dame lecture series on "Diplo­macy in a Changing World." Accord­ing to Dr. Stephen Kertesz, head of the University's Committee on Inter­national Relations, all the lectures will be published in the form of a sj-m­posium at the conclusion of the series. 
First speaker in the series was Pro­fessor Hans J. Morganthau of the Uni­vereity of Chicago, who discussed the merits of "The Permanent Values in the Old Diplomacy" on October 4. He was followed on October 31 by Professor J. B. Duroselle of the Uni­versity of Paris, speaking on "The Role of French Diplomacy in the Postwar \Vorid." 
Dag Hammarskjold, secretar)' gen­eral of the United Nations, and Chester Bowles, former American ambassador to India, are among the foreign affairs specialists who will appear at Notre Dame. Others scheduled to speak in­clude Professors Philip E. Mosely of Columbia University, Hans Kohn of the City College of New York, Louis 

J. Halle of the University of Virginia and Antonio de Luna, Universities of Madrid and Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame's Committee on Inter­national Relations has published ten books and conducted numerous campus sjTnposia since it was established in 1948. Research during the next five years, supported Jointly by the Rocke­feller Foundation and the University, will deal largely with American foreign policy. 
Civil Engineers Hear Bridge Builder 
David B. Steinman, bridge designer and engineer, addressed a joint meeting of the Student Chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineers and the Northwest Subsection of the Indiana Section of the ASCE on October 3. The subject of his talk was "The Mackinac Bridge—Conquering the Impossible." Dr. Steinman is shown above (center) with Dean Karl Schoenherr of the College of Engineering and John Massman, '36, of Kansas City, president of the ASCE Student Chapter. 
Notre. Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 13 
an advertising gimmick and reflects no , lordly pretentions on the part of its ,11 
Grattan Studios Famous bearer. His business beginnings were j much more humble. When the Henry 
Grattan Studios were established in 
For Engraved Diplomas 1937, "my office," Grattan recalls, "was under my hat." 
In this age of speed, automation 

and mass production, the deliberate 
skill and time-consuming labor of the-
true craftsman has become a rarity. 
But machines have not superseded all 
the manual arts. 
Of those surviving, one of the most 

exacting—and most familiar to any 
college graduate—is the art of engrav­
ing. And one of the most exacting 
engravers — one who may well be 
known to Notre Dame alumni in the 
educational field—is Henr>' Grattan, 
'33. 
Most graduates are so relieved at 

the sight of their name on a diploma . that little thought is paid to the craftsmanship of the scroll itself. Yet an engravang from the hands of skilled artisans such as those of the Henr)' Grattan Studios well merits 
closer inspection. 
The Grattan Studios are located in 

East Orange, N. J. at 14 Washington 
St., where Henr)' also maintains a 
religious articles store, the largest in 
suburban New Jersey. 
Behind and beneatli the store, Grat­

tan and his staff not only design and 
engrave dies and plates and print from 
the engraved dies, but also perform 
the complete manufacture of diploma 
cases. They are the only Catholic firm 
operating on a national basis with com­
plete facilities for die-stamping, en­
graving, binding or case-making and 
letterpress printing. 
Internationally Known 
They manufacture diplomas and 

cases for parochial schools throughout 
the nation, including all those for the 
archdiocese of New York and Wash­
ington, D. C. and the dioceses of Rich­
mond, Raleigh, Wheeling and Youngs­
town. The Grattan Studios have also 
served schools in four other nations 
and Notre Dame's own Holy Cross 
Seminary. 
Since Grattan's customer potential 

includes the Church hierarchy, which 
might need the services of one skilled 
in heraldic and liturgical design, he has 
found it wise to display his own family 
crest as an e.xample of his workman­
ship. 
The Grattan crest was handed down 

from Henry's great grandfather, the Right Hon. Henry Grattan, a Protest­ant who fought for the Catholic cause as a representative of Ireland in both the English and Irish parliaments. 
The crest, however, is used only as 

Henry Grattan, '33, is one of the nation's outstanding engravers of parochial school diplomas. 
Continue Fr. Moreau Beatification Process 
The body of Very Rev. Basil An­diony Moreau, founder of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross, was exhumed recently at Le Mans, France, as part of the process leading toward his beati­fication. French and Vatican prelates as well as representatives of the vari­ous provinces of the Holy Cross priests, Brodiers and Sisters throughout the world attended the rites. 
Medical experts verified the remains as those of the French priest who died at Le Mans in 1873. The next step in the beatification process is the re-e.xam­ination of the life and virtues of Father Moreau by a tribunal at Le Mans act­ing on the authority of the Holy See. The introduction of Father Moreau's cause for beatification was approved by the Sacred Congregation of Rites on March 15th. The decree officially in­troducing liis cause was signed by Pope Pius XII on May 12th. Father Moreau served as superior general for thirty years and visited Notre Dame and nearby St. Mary's College in 1857. 
Although engraving diplomas forms the bulk of the firm's business, its wares include educational, ecclesiastical and industrial jewelr)', class rings, pins, medals, plaques, awards, graduation and wedding gifts, steel engravings, trophies, business and social stationery, J , precious stones and bindery work. 
Thus Henr}' Grattan has developed a highly respectable business from his craftsman's skill, as well as a widely respected reputation as ah engraver, in a field in which the pushbutton has yet to replace the deft touch. 
NOTED CHEMIST COMPLETES 
ANNUAL REILLY LECTURE SERIES 
America's colleges and universities must train scientists of the next gen­eration to work as a team without stifling "individual effort, originality and independent thinking," according to Professor Herman Mark, a noted specialist in pol>'mer chemistry who recently completed the annual P. G. Reilly Lectures in chemistr)' at Notre Dame. He is the author of several books and a faculty member at Brook- ^1 K-n Polytechnic Institute. 
Cooperative Research 
Research that used to take one man five years is now completed by five men in one year. Professor Mark ob-ser\'ed. Such cooperative effort is "in­evitable," he said, if scientific progress is to be accelerated. Today's educators, he continued, must accept this fact and instill in our future scientists the conviction that cooperation "can be, just as satisfying as single individual effort." Impersonalization, he said, does not detract from "the impor­tance, necessity or mental satisfaction" of scientific research. 
AVithin the past 30 years, Professor Mark noted, the natural sciences have developed many new and complex methods. Whereas one or at most t\vo persons formerly would carry out a scientific investigation from beginning to end, as many as sk or eight ment are often needed to complete a proj ect today, he said. 
14 Notre Dame Alumnus, November'Decemberj 1955 
ter. Sister Mary Mellita, R-S.M-j teaches at Grand Haven, Michigan. 


Eddie Mahon Provides 
Another daughter,- Mis. John Loritsch, is married to the manager of General Electric's chemical division who re­

Chemicals and Kindness 
By JAMES E. MURPHY 

A genial Irishman who remembers Knute Rockne more as a chemistry in­structor than a football coach is begin­ning his 43rd year in chaige of 
.the chemistry department supply room at Notre Dame. 
He is Eddie Mahon who parcels out 3,500 varieties of chemicals and labor­atory equipment to more than 1,400 students currently enrolled in chemistry classes at the University. 
Mahon has presided over the chem­istry stock room during the administra­tion of eight Notre Dame presidents. He has served under five chemistry department heads in five different locations on the campus. He has seen 
* inany Notre Dame men, including five present members of the faculty, enroll in freshman chcmistiy and a few years later receive their Ph.D. 
How Eddie Mahon came to Notre Dame nearly a half-century ago is a story in itself. Eddie was working in a Dublin publishing house, he relates when a priest came in to order some books. The priest took some of the books with him, but asked that the others be shipped to him at Notre 
'"""Dame. The priest. Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., then president of Notre Dame, (I905-I919) asked the young Irishman if he ever thought about coming to America. Within the year Mahon sailed for the United States, came directly to see the only American he had met, and has been at Notre Dame ever since. 
In his early years at Notre Dame, Mahon was known around the campus as an accomplished dancer. He ap-
Tipeared in several campus shows and recalls that Rockne himself was no stranger behind the footlights. Eddie often appeared professionally on the stage in Ireland and more than once was on the same program with singer John McCormack, who, like Mahon, came from Athlone. One of Eddie's fondest memories is the occasion in 1933 when his fellow townsman Mc­Cormack came to Notre Dame to re­ceive the Laetare Medal, 
.y When Mahon arrived at Notre Dame in 1911, he worked in the stu­dents accounts office and later had charge of the waiters in the old re­fectory before taking over his present post. Literally thousands of Notre Dame men have passed through the University's chemistry laboratories dur­ing Mahon's tenure. Eddie has never taken a chemistry course and claims to know nothing about the subject. But his patience and kindness have helped many a student who was discouraged when a complicated experiment went wrong. 
Mahon requires that all laboratory apparatus be returned to the supply room "clean and dry." Generations of Notre Dame chemistry' students have tried to return equipment that was otherwise, but few have succeeded. Occasionally, a glass vessel loaned to a 
Eddie Mahon Begins 43rd Year at N.D. 

student will break, and sometimes the student will claim the equipment was defective to begin widi. According to a veteran faculty member, Eddie Ma­hon will listen to the student's story with remarkable sympathy and pa­tience—and then charge him for the broken item! 
The Mahons are a Notre Dame family if there ever was one. Eddie married Annie Monahan in the cam­pus church and their four children were baptized and confirmed there. Their son Joe is employed at Notre Dame's Lobund Institute. A daua;h­
ceived his Ph.D. at Notre Dame. Tragedy came to the Mahon family in 1951 when another son, Maury, a 1950 Notre Dame graduate and an FBI agent, died in a plane crash. But even in recalling such a sad occasion, Eddie Mahon can still smile. It was then that he received letters of sym­pathy from scores of Notre Dame men in every part of the country who came to know and admire the little Irishman in the chemistry stock room. 
Faculty members, students and alum­ni agree that Notre Dame's chemistry department wouldn't be the same with­out Eddie Mahon. It is men of his character, spirit and devotion who in their own lifetime have helped trans­form Notre Dame from a small obscure school in northern Indiana to a univer­sity famous the world over. 
WORLD TRADE CONFERENCE 
DRAWS 150 FROM MIDWEST 
More than 150 midwest businessmen engaged in exporting and allied activi­ties attended the 8th Annual World Trade Conference at Notre Dame on Oct. 11 
Panel members who discussed the 

U. S. trade potential between now and 1960 were: Robert Riordan, American Wheelabrator and Equipment Corp. export division, Mishawaka, Ind., chairman; Raymond J. Sadlier, vice-president, Johnson and Johnson Inter­national, New Brunswick, N. J.; Jack 
L. Camp, vice-president for foreign operations. International Harvester Co., Chicago; and Bryan Doble, gen­eral manager of the international di­vision, H. D. Hudson Manufacturing Co., Chicago. 
•
 Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce presided over a second jianel whose members predicted foreign trade developments in the fields of finance, advertising and freight for­warding. Serving on the panel were: 

T.
 Graydon Upton, vice president, Philadelphia National Bank; John A. Miguel, Jr., manager of Zenith Radio Corporation's international- division, Chicago; and Charles Collins, vice president. National Carloading Corp., Chicago. Prof. Wesley Bender was Conference Chairman. 


Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 15 
Notre Danie conferred an honorary Doctor of Laws degree on His Beatitude Maximos IV, Patriarch of Antiocb and All the East at a special convocation in Sacred Heart Church, on October 20. The spiritual leader of Melkite Catholics of the Byzantine rite was cited as "a liWng sign of the unity, holiness, apostolic character and catholicity of the Church." Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Danie president, conferred the degree. 
University Awards Honorary Degree To Maximos IV, Patriarch of Antioch 
Notre Dame awarded an honorar>' Doctor of Laws degree October 21 to His Beatitude Maximos IV, Patriarch of Antioch and All the East. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, Notre Dame president, conferred the degree at ceremonies in Sacred Heart Church on the campus. 
Under the Holy Father, Mavimos IV is the spiritual shepherd of approxi­mately 150,000 Milkites of the Byzan­tine Rite of the Catholic Church. The Milkites use the Arabic language in their liturgical functions. The juris­diction of Maximos IV extends to all the faithful of his church living in tile lands of the old Turkish empire (as of 1894) and Egypt 
Approximately 20,000 Melkites have emigrated to the United States. They are served by priests subject to the local American bishop. 
The Melkites derive their name from the Syrian word for "king" be­cause they proclaimed the orthodox}' of tiieir emperor after the Council of Chalcedon in 451. The name is often used without qualification to designate Catholic Byzantines of Syria and Egypt. 
While the patriarchate of Antioch has relatively few spiritual subjects, it is important historically and ecclesias­tically because of the laige number of its patriarchs and bishops who remain­ed in communion \vith Rome after the Byzantine schism of 1054. 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, November'December, 1955 
New Appointments For C.S.C. Brothers 
Their far-flung installations bring the Brothers of Holy Cross into fre­quent contact with fellow alumni in several city clubs, making possible many a reunion among former class­mates. 
Aiumni will find new faces—^possibly some of them familiar—behind the.; superior' desks in a dozen institutions operated by the Congregation through­out the countr)'. 
New superiors include Brother Dom­inic Elder, '36, at the new militar>' school in AVatertown, Wis.; Brother Peter Goodman, '54, at the St. Joseph Juniorate in Valatie, N. Y,; Brother Gerontius McCarthy, '44, master of novices at St. Joseph Novitiate in Rolling Prairie, Ind.; Brother Giles Martin, '35, principal of Vincentiaui Institute, Albany, N. Y.; Brother John 
W. Donoghuc, '43," principal of Holy Cross High School in Flushing, N. Y. 
Brothers Conduct 41 Institutions 
Other new superiors are: Brother Alfonso Comeau, '44, of Gilmour Acad­emy, Gates Mills, Ohio; Brother Barry Lambour, '46, of St. Edward High School, Lakewood, Ohio; Brother Don­atus Schmitz, '41, principal of the new St. Francis High School in Mountain^' View, Calif., near San Francisco; Bro­ther Reinald Duran, '42, principal of Holy Cross High School in New Or­leans; Brother Eudes Hartnett, '44, principal of Msgr. Coyle High School in Taunton, Mass.; Brother Pacificus Halpin, '43, principal of Notre Dame High School, West Haven, Conn.; Bro­ther Theodosius Flynn, '42, superior of Vincent Hall, St. Edward's University, Austin, Tex. 
In Rome, Italy, Brother Loyola* Christoph, '35, has been appointed headmaster of the Notre Dame Inter­national School for Boys. 
In all, the Brothers of Holy Cross conduct 32 educational institutions in the U. S.—including 12,100 studenU^ one each in Rome and Brazil, and seven, with a total of 2,658 students, in East Pakistan. , 
Two of these, the high school in Mountain View and the military acad-" emy (fifth to eighth grades) in \Vater­
to%vn, were opened this September. 
not only our sufferings, but-our joys, • our very lives, back to God; to give
Catholicism and the Writer 
by REV. LEO L. 

Extracts from an address to the No­tre Dame Writers' Conference by the 
,Rev. Leo L. Ward, C,S.C;,qre. re­printed m the following piece. The manuscript, published in AMERICA, was discovered among his papers after his death in 1953. For many years. Father 
> Ward was head of the Department of English at Notre Dame. 
One of the most accurate and re­alistic definitions of Notre Dame that I have come across is that it is a place where you had better be sure to keep your shoes tied, because soinebody is always ready to give you a gentle but effective leg-pulling. Some of my be­nign confreres—Messrs. Hasley, Fred­erick, Sullivan and Nims—are capable, 
'.'/let me warn you, of this very mischiev­ous Christian virtue. In other words, in appearing before you this evening, I feel as though I am the victim of a very genteel frame-up. These very fine gentlemen, while working out the details of the conference, have in­dulged in a highly refined form of flattery. In assigning my subject and my title, "Catholicism and the Writer," I need not tell you that they have handed me a difficult problem, and one 
"* that is very confused by the endless dis­cussion which it has provoked—an old potato that is already badly over­boiled. If I bum my fingers a little, I know you will be more sjinpathetic than hostile. 
Is the whole question of "Catholic Writing" or of the "Catholic Writer" just a specious lollipop for pious people with no valid meaning for critical minds? It would seem so, if we take the word "writer" to mean strictly the 
• T skilled workman or artist. That is cer­tainly what the writer is first of all, strictly and essentially. But accidental­ly, he happens to be also a man, a human being with all the potential no­bility and grossness of our common human condition. Perhaps he is a shambling, careless, myopic, balding fellow who won't quite give up some quality or vision in his confused, wistful notions of what he was bom to be and to do. Or—much more rare­
.••-ly—he may be a man of profound, controlled vision and the character and purpose which give sustained support our gift up to Him reallyjpto keep none 
of it privately for ourselves-alone—this
AVARD, C.S.C. 
is a Christlike attitude which; I think, 
is of the genius of.-Catholicism, and to the skill that translates his vision which I have called • the sacrificial 
into splendid patterns of firm, sharp habit of mind. 
words and images. 
For the writer, this will, appear not -• • 'We •are"now^faced'with-!the:question 

in any particular technique,.but in his of what a Catholic really is. I shall spirit arid attitude. Nothing of the not try to provide a comprehensive writer, as a private profiteer, or en­definition, I assure you. I shall be trepreneur, remains in his.work; it is a quite content to point up two charac­pure, if imperfect, gift, because it be­teristic aspects of Catholicism which longs to God. No artistic-arrogance or seem to have special relevance for our fastidiousness or false, selfish anxiety or general question. Catholicism seems to wilful private purpose appears, because me to be especially or even peculiarly his work is a holocaust, a burnt offerr marked by two habits of mind: a sac­ing which reflects the face of Christ ramental and a sacrificial habit of and is, always, the product of a sacri­mind, and both are inseparably united. 
ficial habit of mind. But Catholicism is marked, as I 
But I have said that the sacramentalhave said, by another aspect of special and the sacrificial habits of mind areimportance in' any discussion of our inseparable in the tnily Catholicquestion. Christ's life was one of utter writer. Perhaps this can be put con­sacrifice, ending on the Cross. The cisely by saying that for the CatholicCross has been the special and pre­mind all things of earth and sky areeminent symbol of Catholicism. And not only signs of God, steeped in Histhe Mass—the unbloody sacrifice of holiness, simply because they havethe Cross—has always been central in their being; but also, and especially,Catholic worship. The shadow of the they await the priestly action of man's .

Cross lies over all things Catholic, and mind and heart which alone can offerit is that shadow which makes bearable them back, as pure gifts, as burnt of­all other shadows. 
ferings, to God—to "beauty's self, and But darkness and pain are not the 
beauty's giver." primary or central note of sacrifice; they are not even essential. Sacrifice 
(Ed. Note: "Men in the Field," a 

consists essentially in an offering, an 
collection of short stories by the Rev. 
oblation. That we offer our gift to 
Leo L. Ward, CS.C, will be published
God and give with it something of 
in December, 1955, by the University
ourselves—there is the main and indis­
Press, Notre Dame, Ind. Price: $3JO.)
pensable element of sacrifice. To offer 
S.W. CONNECTICUT CLUB LAUDS BISHOP SHEHAN 
WHEREAS, our Alma Mater, THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, an outstanding institution for the promotion of human knowledge, and Catholic principles and ideals, taught us that for man to be complete, he must have an understanding not only of his relationship with his fellow man and his environment, but more importantly of his relationship to God, and 
Whereas, The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Southwestern Connecticut was organized and exists for the purpose of promulgating devotion to God and country by a well informed populace, and 
Whereas, his Excellency, THE MOST REVEREND LAWRENCE 
J. SHEHAN, Bishop of the Diocese of Bridgeport, by his leadership and inspiration is advancing the opportunities for Catholic education to the children of Fairfield County, 
Now Therefore, be it resolved that we, the members of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Southwestern Connecticut, hereby acknowledge our sincere appreciation for the magnificent endeavor and splendid achievement of his Excellency, the Bishop of Bridgeport, and pledge him our unanimous and imqualified support. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 17 
\-,gspci^-r^^ 
Unusual Gift Aids Golf and Bridge 
A gift of $5,000 to stimulate interest in bridge and golf among its undergraduate stu­dents has been donated to Notre Dame by James Gerity, Jr., an Adrian, Michigan, industrialist and a member of the University's College of Commerce Advisory Council. 
The newly established fund \vill be used to underwrite bridge and golf instruction on the campus. Charles Goren, the noted bridge author­ity, was the first expert to lecture at Notre Dame under the fund's auspices. 
Gerity said he made the unusual benefaction because he is convinced that knowing how to play bridge and golf well is an important asset to the business or professional man. 

Allen Tafe Will Teach of ND in '57 
Professor Allen Tate, curently with Depart­ment of English at the University of Minnesota, has accepted appointment from Notre Dame to serve as visiting professor of English for the Spring 1957 semester, under the Distinguished Professors Program. During the past two years this program has enabled the University to add several outstanding men to its faculty, as visi­tors or permenant appointees, in a number of fields. 

Educational Conference on Campus 
"The Role of Faith in University Education" was the theme of an Educational Conference of the Priests of Holy Cross held at Notre Dame in July. Representatives of seven colleges and universities operated by the Holy Cross Fathers in this country and abroad were in attendance. 
Speakers and their subjects include: Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C, "The Problem of the Teaching Authority of the Church;" Rev. Howard J. Kenna, C.S.C, "The Role of the Uni­versity in the Application of Dogma;" Rev. Thomas McDonagh, C.S.C., "Extent of the Church's Authority in the Socizd Sciences;" and Rev. Louis J. Putz,, C.S.C, "Freedom of Lesiming and the Church." 
Officers of this year's conference were: Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, CS.C, president; Rev. Ray­mond F. Cour, C.S.C, vice president; and Rev. Joseph McCartney, C.S.C, secretjiry. 
18 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 
ND Site of Catholic Theatre Meet 
Sister M. Angelita, B.V.M., of Immaculate Conception Academy, Davenport, Iowa, was elected president of the Catholic Theatre Con­ferj-'nce at the dose of the organization's 10th biennial convention at Notre Dame. Rev. Robert Johnston, S.J., of St. Louis University, was named vice president. 
A number of plays were produced and virtu­ally every phase of theatrical work was dis­cussed during the sessions which were attended by more than 1,500 teachers, directors and stu­dents of the drama from Catholic colleges, high schools and community theatre groups through­out the country. 
CSMC Convention to Return Here 
The Catholic Students' Mission Crusade has chosen the University of Notre Dame as the site for its 17th national convention to be held August 23-26, 1956. Arrangements for the biennial sessions were recently completed by University oflBcials and Rt. Rev. Msgr. Edward 
A. Freking, national secretary of the CSMC. The 1956 condave will be the fifth consecutive CSMC convention to be held at Notre Dame. More than 3,500 young people attended the sessions in 1954. 
O'Brien Books Published Abroad 
Books and pamphlets by the Rev. John A. O'Brien, author-in-residence at the University of Notre Dame, are being used to spread the truths of Catholicism throughout the world. 
According to word recently received here. Father O'Brien's book, TJw Faith of Millions, has just been published in Italian by the Pious So­dety of St. Paul in Rome. The volume, which presents the credentials of the Catholic faith, is being used throughout Italy to counteract the proselyting of Protestant missionaries who are becoming very active among the tradition­ally Catholic Italian people. With more than 300,000 copies printed in the United States, The Faith of Millions has also been published in German, French, Hungarian, Japanese, Spanish and Malayalam in India. A British edition also came off the press recently. 
Bums Scholarships to 9 Students 
Nine students in seven states have been awarded Rev. James A. Bums Memorial Scliol­arships at Notre Dame. The Bums scholar­ships, which are awarded on a competitive basis, provide $650 for the freshman year and $300 each year thereafter. 
Statuette Atop TV Antenna 
A statuette of the Virgin Mary has been placed atop the 570-foot antenna of WNDU-TV, the new television station operated by Notre Dame. The UHF station, which is aiHliated with the NBC Television Network, began operations in July. 
The 18-inch statuette is a replica of the figure of the Blessed Virgin on the Golden Dome. Made of aluminum and contemporary in design, it was executed by Robert Zale, Wauwatosa, Wis., an Arts and Letters senior at Notre Dame. The aluminum figure has been anodized to protect it from the elements. 
Reyniers Speaks in Europe 
Professor James A. Reyniers, director of Lobimd Institute, addressed two international scientific conferences in Europe recently. 
The meetings were held in Brussels, Belgium, the first week of August, and at the Inter­national Medical Congress in Verona, Italy, early in September. 
Smelser Co-authors History Text 
Dr. Marshall Smelser, associate professor of history at the University of Notre Dame, is co­author of Conceived in Liberty, a new American history text designed expressly for use in Cath­olic high schools and academies. Dr. Harry W. Kirwin, head of the history department at Loyola College of Baltimore, collaborated with Smelser on the book which was published re­cently by Doubleday and Company. 
Bandmasters Compare Notes Here 
The National Catholic Bandmasters' Asso­ciation held its third annual convention at the University of Notre Dame, recently. Band di­rectors from more than sixty high schools and colleges attended the sessions. 
Raymond Dvorak, director of the University of Wisconsin bands, addressed the convention banquet, and other speakers were: Forrest L. McAllister, editor and publisher of SCHOOL MUSICIAN; composer Harold Walters; William Sandburg, president of Educational Music, Inc.; and T. P. Kexel, educational director of the Holton Instrument Co. 
Morality in Business Stressed 
Dr. Herbert Johnston, Notre Dame professor, keynoting the national conference of the Cath­olic Business Education Association at the Palmer House, said that too many students "show a nearly complete lack of ability" to 
comprehend any moral implications in business life. There are some, he said, who are con­vinced that no such implications exist. 
Courses in moral theology or moral philoso­phy, taught in terms of abstract principles and isolated from the rest of the curriculum, have relatively little impact on the student. Professor Johnston contended. "We should teach them business ethics, or moral theology in its business applications," he said. "Anything less will run the serious risk of leaving our students' moral knowledge and business knowledge just two parallel lines that never meet." 
Newman Club Leaders Meet at ND 
More than sixty Newman Club leaders and their chaplains from secular colleges throughout the country met at Notre Dame this past sum­mer to attend the fourth annual Newman School of Catholic Thought. The sessions were designed to develop informed Catholic leadership on the campus of non-Catholic colleges and universities. 
NROTC Group Office to Fr. Lochner 
Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C, assistant to the vice-president for accademic affairs, was re­cently elected vice-president of the Association of Naval ROTC Colleges. The Association, com­prised of representatives of some 52 universities, meets periodically to discuss problems common to Naval ROTC. 
Missionaries Ready for Pakistan 
Eleven priests and Brothers, all Notre Dame graduates, recently pronounced their foreign mission vows prior to leaving for Pakistan where they will serve in parishes, schools and other institutions operated by the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
The Most Rev. Lawrence L. Graner, C.S.C, Archbishop of Dacca, in whose archdiocese the missionaries wiU serve, preached at the de­parture ceremony in Sacred Heart Church. Rev. Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C, provincial of the Holy Cross Fathers, received the missionaries' vows in behalf of the Very Rev. Christopher J. O'Toole, C.S.C, superior genersd of the Con­gregation. 
Indiana Scientists Convene Here 
More than three hundred scientists attended the seventy-first annual meeting of the Indiana Academy of Science at Notre Dame on Oct. 14. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CS.C, addressed the opening session in Washington Hall. Dr. Charles Brambel, head of Notre Dame's biology department, also spoke at the general session. 
PR Man Gives O'Hara Lecture 
The first of this year's Archbishop O'Hara Seminar lectures at Notre Dame was given October 18 by R. H. CoUacott, director of public relations for the Standard Oil Co. of Cleveland, Ohio. 

Noire Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 19 
T^itCCtOtU of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ARIZONA—PAornijr—Eugene A. Hoesclilcr, 6305 
X. 13th St., Phoenbt, Ariz. ra«oi!—Kenneth J. Bayly, '50, 305 Fiber Bldg., Tucson, Ariz. 
ARKANSAS-forl SrailA-John Murphy, '28, P.O. Box 457, Fort Smith, Ark. 
CALIFORNIA—C<rn(rol—Harold A. Bair, '29, 2430 Tulare St.. Fresno, Calif. Z.OJ ^7iB<-;«—Dr. Leo V. Tut^eon, '42, 3741 
Stocker St. .Vor//i*rn—John A. O'Connor, '48, 44 Church St., San Francisco. Calif. San iJiVeo—Gerard R. Bill, 4436 Marlboroush 
.Ave., San Diego, Calif. 
COLORADO—fl^nccr—Dr. J. Philip Clarke, '44, 1956 Hudson St., Denver. Colo. Southern Colo.—A. Jack Thomas, '49, 310 E. Orman Ave., Pueblo, Colo. 
CONNECTICUT—ConiKrr/iViK r'affey—Arthur Jtc-Gee. '31, 204 High St., Wallingford, Conn. .VouBd/iif*.-Walter M. Marut, '49, 454 Oak Ave., Cheshire, Conn. .Yeif Havfn—Joseph P. Burns, '34, 8 Vineyard Rd., S'orth Haven, Conn. 
Southu:estfrn—Dr. Vincent * Gorman, '45, 5490 Main St., Trumbull, Conn. DELAWARE—Charles A. Wolfe. Jr.. 312 Holly Oak Rd., Gw-inhurst, Wilmington 3, Del. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—Hoi.-ard J. Schellen­bers, Jr.. "41, 1025 Connecticut Ave., NW, Suite 
511. Washington, D. C. 
FLORIDA—Crnlraf—Roy B. Laughlin, '18, 2626 Norfolk Rd., Orlando, Fla. Fori Laiitleriliih—Robert H. Gore, Jr., '31, 4901 Ocean Dr.. Fort Lauderdale. Fla. 
Greattr .Jfiomi-Edivard A. Kelly, '45, 13205 N.E. lltii Ave., Miami, Fla. Nor/A Florida—Fred J. Rahaim, '31, 1636 Laura St., Jacksonville, Fla. St. Prtcriburg-Tampa—Kay J. Dceb, '46, 1400 
15th St. No., St. Petersburg. Fla. 
GEORGIA—^KanfJ-William H. Ricke. '39, 3182 
Pcachtrcc Rd. N. E., Atlanta, Georgia. 
IDAHO—Francis Xcitzel, '23, 9 Mesa Dr., Boise, Idaho Idaho FoHs—James M. Brady, '29, P.O. Bos 581, Idaho Falls, Idaho 
ILLINOIS—.4uror<i—Theodore Wiest, '27, 813 Wat­son St. Central Illinois—Edward G. Coleman, '50, 2147 S. Walnut St.. Spriniifield, III. CAicojo—Joseph McCabe, '33, 632 Forest Ave., River Forest, 111. Eastern HKnoii-Leslie Hahne, '49, 1909 0.ik St., Damnlle. 111. Fox Valley—George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit, EIi;in, III. foViX—Walter J. Voitik. '49. 15 Ivy St., Jolict. 111. Peoria—Dr. Clarence V. Ward, Jr., '44, 5827 PrtBpecl Rd.. Peoria, III. Rock River Valley—Robert McDonnell. '44, 412 
W. Ilth St.. Sterlins, 111. Kofi/ord—John J. \Vahl, '43, 221 Logan, Rock­ford. III. Southern Cook County—^John G. Zarantc, '48, 
295 Crescent Dr., Chicago Heights, III. 
INDIANA—Co/umct DijlnVl—Jack Ogren, 5946 Hobman Ave., Hammond. Ind. Eastern Indiana—H. R. DeVault, '32, 812 Marsh, Munde, Ind. £(/c*orl—Alphonse J. Spahn, '4S, 2623 Cassopolis Rd., Elkhart. Ind. EionjtiUe—Edward E. Matthexs, '40, 1215 Green­field Rd., Evans\-ille. Ind. Fori Wayne—J. Thomas O'Reilly, '44, 335 W. Sherwood Terrace. Indianapolis—John C .O'Connor, '40, 1506 Morris Plan BIdg., Indianapolb Michlean &•!)•—Robert N. Schiel, '43, 428 Cole Ct., Michigan City, Ind. St. Joseph Valley—Robert Lehman, '44, 214 Peash­way. South Bend, Ind. Terre Z/nufe—Raymond J. Kcarns, '22, 1642 S. Fifth St., Terre Haute, Ind. Wabash I'oHcj—Raymond E. Swanson, '31, 900 
West Main St., Crawfordsville, Ind. 

IOWA—Dei Moinej—Loiih F. Kurtz, '43, 213 42nd St.. Des Moines, lowu. Dubuque—Loais Rhomberg, '31, 1820 Delhi St., Dubugue. Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, E. Moline)—William Bcmbrock, '33, 2910 Forest Hill Ct.. Moline. 111. 
KANSAS—£nj/crn Konioj-Francis DcBacker, 2218 Wilmington Ct:, Topcka, Kansas SoKnii-Robert .'i. McAuliffe, '36, 1307 Court 
Plaue, Salina, Kansas. 

20 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 
ICicAi/o—George A. Schu-arz, '25, 302 Orpheum BIdg. KENTUCKY-Joseph P. Harmon, '23, 1203 Falcon Dr., Louisville, Ky. 
LOUISIANA—./lrJt-t<i-r«—Robert A. Roy, '27, 509 Market St.. Shreveport. La. Xeu: Orleans—Veter L. Hilhcrt, '50, 2002 Roberts St., New Orleans. La. 
MARYLAND—BoWmorc'-William W. Hartman, '42. 1643 Northbourne, Baltimore, Md. 
.MASSACHUSETTS—Bojion—William M. Hcaly, Jr., '44, 156 State St., Boston. Mass. Pioneer Valley—Arthur L. Demers, *35, 17 Gd­
lette Ave.. Springfield, Mass. MICHIGAN—BoHfe Cr«i—Robert Breska, '43, Ri. 
1. Box 151, Battle Cieck, Mich. Berrien County—Dr. Paul Leonard, *43, 413 S. St Joe. Xiles, Mich. Blue Water Diitricf-William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron. Michigan. Cenlrof—Dr. Edgar J. Hermes, '21, 6M Willow, Lansing. iJmrAorn—Jerry Wayno, '47, 21935 Wildwood, Dearborn. 5lich. B<-/roi;—Arthur D. Cronin, Jr., '36, 2632 Buhl BIdg.. Detroit. Mich. Rinl-Paul C. Hughes, '38, 310 Paterson BIdg., Flint Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—E. Joseph Moore, '38, 48 W. Fulton St., Grand Rapids, Mich. HioaioHoiind-Raymond H. Ebli, "42, P.O. Box 
163, Escanaba, Mich. Iron flange—Robert T. O'Callaghan, '43, 633 McLeon Ave., Ironwood. yacJbon-Blair McGowan, '43, 1106 W. Washing­toiu Jackson Kalamazoo—Anbxsr Mulholbnd, Jr., '37, 218 Monroe St. .Ifonroe—Charles S. Golden, '48, 3 East Second St.. Monroe. _Mich. Muskegon—Richard L. Mason, *44, 1651 Wood, Muskegon. Mich. Saginaw Valley—Thomai J. Carroll, '41, 808 N. 

Birney St., Bay City, Mich. MINNESOTA—Du/ulA-Su/ienor — Wm. E. Cotter, Jr., '41. 114 Laurie St., Duluth. Twin Cilier-Paul Kennedy, '50, 4243 Fremont Ave.. Minneapolis, Minn. MISSISSIPPI—laines Dougherty, '49, 917 Arling­ton. Jackson. Miss. MISSOURI—ATonnij Ci/)'—(Mo. and Kans.)—Rus­sell Farrell. '48, 1006 Grand Ave., Kansas City, 
Mo. 
St. Louii-Donald A. Dohcny, '46, 6235 South-wood. St. Louis, Afo. 

NEW JERSEY—Dr. Philip M. Provissiero, '30, 413 Caldwell Dr., Wyckoff, N. J. Cenlrnf-Michael J. Balog, '34, 316 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy. N. J. South ycr/o'—Frank E. Villon, '49, 1346 Brown­ing, Camden, N. J. 
NE\y MEXICO-Louis C. Lujan, *24, 607 Sun­shine BIdg., Albuquerque, N. M. 
NEW YORK—Buja/o—John P. Shine, '48, 693 Moore Ave., Kenmore, N. V. Capital District—C. F. Regan, Jr.. '27, 1592 New ScoUand Rd., Box 158, Slimterlands, K. Y. Central—Thomas J. Ryan, Jr., '51, 103 Bungalow Terrace, SyTacttsc. N. Y. Goldtn Circle—George F. Fitzgerald, '25, 719 Main St.. Olean, N. Y. .Mid-Hudson Valley—Joseph A. Rorick, '42, 27 Monell Ave., Poughkeepsie, N. Y. Mohawk Valley—Anthony J. Ginizzi, '36, 201 Post OfBce BIdg., Utica. N. Y. Xew York City—John Duffy, '44, 99 Hudson St., .\"e>v York 13, N. Y. Xorthern—^Joseph R. Brandy, '21. St. LawTence Broadcasting Corp.. Ogdensburg. N. Y. Rochester—Al Roche, '31, 706 Terminal BIdg., Rochester, N. Y. Schenectady—Dr. John B. Phillips, '37, 873 Wright Ave., Schenectady, N. Y. Triple Cities—George J. Haines, '42, 126 Laurel Ave., Binghamton, N. Y. 
NORTH CAROLINA—Coro/inn—Robert H. Perci­vtd, '48, 1717 Garden Terrace, Charlotte, N. C. 
OHIO—^tron-Wm. J. O'Neil, '43, 726 Ecton Rd., Akron 3, Ohio Canton—Louis L. Singer, '48, 2743 Cleveland, N.W., Canton. Ohio Cinrinna(i—Robert McCafTerty, '43, 1031 E. Rook­wtjod Dr., Cincinnati, Ohio Ckt,<r/and—Creighton E. Miller, '44, 2733 E. Overlook Rd., Cleveland Heights, Ohio CoIiim6tu—John R. Murphy, '28, Rm. 620 Hunt­
ington Bank BIdg., Columbus, Ohio Da>lon—Leo J. Condron, '49, 2092 Victoria Ave., Dayton 6, Oliio Hamilton—^Jerome A. Ryan, '41, 744 Main St., Hamilton. Ohio Kof/o—Russell B. Rickus, '34, 123 Gamble Ave., WheeUng, W. Va. .yonrfiutj—Alfred A. Schnurr, Jr., '28, 1101 W. Jefferson St.. Sandusky. Ohio To/crfo—William O. .Murlagh, '49, 2910 Ever­green, Toledo. Ohio i Youngstouin-R. Griff Allen, '44, P.O. Box 2676, 
Youngstown, Ohio 

OKhAHOilA—OUahoma &"(>'—Edward S. Kav­anaugh, '38, 4809 No. Thompson, Oklahoma City, Okla. TBIKI-Leo P. Fagan, '32, Braden Steel Corp., 
P.O. Box 1229, Tulsa, Okla. OREGON—William Meagher, '48, 4O20 S.E. Oak 
St., Portland, Ore. PENNSYLVANIA-Cenlrn; Pennsylrania — Stephen 
J. Conway, '37. 316 Locust St.. Johnstown, Pa. Bail^rn—Leo R. McIntyTc, '28, 30O4 Turner St., AUentown. £rie—Joseph Hipp, *49, 958 W. SLxth St.. Eric, Pa. //orn'stiirK-John W. Davis, '32, 5513 River Dr., Harrisbui^, Pa. Monongahela Valley—Louis W. Apone, *41, 401 Market St., Brownsville. Pa. PhUadelphia-Willam G. Burns, '40, 264 Ithan Ave.. Villanova. Pa. Pildiurgi-Earl Brieger, '31, 1536 Beechwood-Blvd., Pittsburgh, Pa. Scranton—^John A. Kramer, '45, 121 Chestnut St., Dutunore, Pa. irai«-Barre—John C. Brady, U.D., '36, 228 Horton St., Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Williamsport — Peter Somerville, '29, Jones & Laughlin Steel Co., Muncy, Pa. 

RHODE ISLAND and S. E. MASSACHUSETTS —^Jamcs E. Murphy, '49, 48 Garden St., Cranston, 
R. I. 

TENNESSEE — Chattanooga — Thomas B. Owen, '35, 4004 Wiley Ave. Memphis—Joseph Signiago, '48, 945 Colonial Rd., Memphis, Tenn. 
TBXAS—DuHoi—Joseph Haggar, Jr., '45, 6903 Mer­
rilee Lane. Dallas, Texas B r<wo—Richard S. Smith, '37, 4311 Hastings St., El Paso, Texas Woujlon-Donald F. O'Brien, '42, 900 Lovett Blvd.. Houston 6, Te-xas *• San Antonio—^A. Thomas Royer, '50, 519 Camden St., San Antonio 

UTAH-Jack W. GalUvan, '37, 1017 Keams BIdg., Salt Lake City. 
VIRGINIA-Frank A. Ciovo, Jr., '51, 3230 Edge­wood Ave., Richmond Tidewaler—Phmip L. Russo, '49, 7314 Hampton Blvd., Apt. 2-B, Norfolk, Va. 
WASHINGTON-J<)otan«—Robert Rotchford, '49, 
W. 418 Sptague Ave.. Spokane B'«(<rn—Charles LaCugna, '45, 906 20th Ave. No., SeatUe 2. Wash. 

WEST VIRGINIA-Vincent J. Reishman,'34, 4200 biaunton Ave., S.E., Charleston, W. Va. 
VnSCX>NSIN-i^ox River Valley—Riehard A. Stack, '48. 1306 W. Cetiar St., Appleton, Wis. Green Bay—Jack A. Vainisi, '50, 349 S. Washing­ton St., Green Bay. Wis. ioCrojK—William F. Dvorak, '43, 1602 MississippH' St., LaCrosse. Wis. Milwaukee—Rssy W. Dwyer, Jr., '48, 3316 W. Wis­consin Av.%, ^lilwaukee. Wis. Northwest—C. T. Downs, '33, 7IO/2 Fifth Ave., Eau Claire, Wis. South Cenlrnl-Maurice Leahy, '39, 4114 Mej-eo Ave., Madison, Wis. Southeastern—James Rice, '42, 3307 N. Main St., Racine, Wis. 
HAWAII—Thomas W. Flynn, '35, 5317 Opihi St., Honolulu. Hawaii. 
FOREIGN CLUBS: Bengal, India—Kev. John W. Kane, C.S.C., "24, (key inan) Dacca, East Pakistan. Manila—Enrique Brias, '37, c/o Roxas y Com­ponia, Soriano BIdg., Manila, Philippines. Mexico City—Telmo DeLandero, '37, Eugenlo Sue 220. Mexico City. Panama—^William J. Sheridan, '34, Box 66, An­coQ. Canal Zone. « Peru—^Andres Malatesta, '23, Cailloma 376, Lima, Pern, South America. Puerto AVo—Paul F. McManus, '34, (ley man] 
B. & M. Products Co., Box 2695, San Juan. 

late November at the Buffalo K. of C. clubhouse. 
•This Is a big undertaking and Jack and Nick are 
-'/ 
having their trials. Tentative plans call for MOOSE 
KRAUSE and some of the varsity football players 
to be here. Highlight of the eveslns' will be 
rnnmi ^MiPi 
presentation of the Notre Dame Cup to the cham­
Akron 
Club officers tliis year arc: WILLIAM J. 0*NEIL, president; JOHN THORPE, JR.,. \-icc-presidcnt; JAMES COULTER, secretary; and TOM O'NEIL, JR., treasurer. The election ^\-as held on UND Night which featured TOM BYRNE as guest speaker and the award of the Man-of-the-Ycar scroll to FRANK E. STEEL. 
•\Vc have held for the last three or four years a get-together of alumni, present students, incoming students and their fathers before ND students re­turn to the campus. Wc find that these meetings have been very successful as far as incoming' fresh­men may be concerned. It affords ihcm the op­portunity to meet the students no%%' at Notre Dame. \Vc had about 45 present. Monsignor Calip from tile Philippines was present and gave a good pep tafk. 
Aurora 
Tlic recipient of tlie first Aurora Notre Dame Club scliolarship was John Ambre, son of ^fr. and Mrs. Ambre of 441 Iowa Avenue, Aurora, Illinois. John graduated with honors from Marmion Mili­tary Academy in Aurora and entered Notre Dame as a freshman this fall. 
Tlie club held a very enjoyable cliicken fry July 20, ^v•ith about 45 alumni, •wives and friends at­tending. JOHN RILEY, '44, was cJiairman of tin's event, being assisted by DICK REEDY, *44, who capably handled the mosquito disposal problem. 
The club's annual Golf Outing was held August 10 at the Woodridgc Golf Club. Over 30 members and friends enjoyed a beautiful day of golf plus a sizzling steak dinner. Tlic outing turned out to be a "golf benefit" for the Hankcs family with LYNN HANKES, '58, taking the first place prize, and his father, BILL, taking the second. ED STARE, SR., walked off with the third-place prize. Ht\NK WANNER, '52, was the chairman of this fine event. 
The latest club activity was our football ticket raffle. An all-expense trip to Miami with two tickets for the Miami-Notrc Dame game was won by Shirley Niclson of Aurora. Chairman ROY O'NEIL, '49, and Club President TED WIEST, *27, attributed the success of the raffle to the com­bined efforts of all the alumni members and many friends. 
Future club activities include a Communion Sun­day to be held December 11, with ROBERT THUMM, '44, as chairman, and a Christmas dance. 
JOHN ORSO, Secy. 
Baltimore 
Our annual family picnic was held on Sunday, July 17, 1955 at "Anchors Awcigh" on the Magothy River. This ^vas the fifth straight year that wc have been invited to this lovely pri\*ate estate of our friends, Mr. and Mrs. John E. LaVcck. In attendance w*erc 150 alumni, tlieir families and 

- friends w-ho gathered to celebrate this wonderful family day. 
Credit for the success of our picnic goes to GREG HALPIN, '49, PETE HAJEWSKI, 'Si, JOE DUKERT, '51, DON O'CONNELL, '49, and to many others who contributed their time and efforts in making this our finest picnic. 
At our last meeting of the spring held at Bernie Lee's Irish Pub, the membership voted unanimously to conduct an all-expense raffle to the Notre Dame-Miami game. Proceeds from the raffle went into our Scholarship Fund. ' 
Featured at the September 30 meeting was the show^ng of exclusive color movies of the H'orid Championship Cleveland Browns-Detroit Lions game of last Fall, courtesy of the Miller Brc^ving Com­pany. Wc are most proud of our Club Secretary, JOE 

„ DUKERT, '51, who, in national competition, won 
' ' a fellowship to the University of Bologna. Joe 
and his lovely witc left for Italy at the end of August. —WILLIAM W. HARTMAN, Pres. 

Boston 
Tlic club's annual picnic was held at CHARLIE CROWLEY'S home. Rivers End Farm, on June 19.' BILL STEWART and ANDY SCOFATI had charge of arrangements. On September 13 the annual party for Notre Dame students and their fathers was held at the Smith House. 
BufFalo 
JIM ARMSTRONG was our guest for the first meeting of the 1955-56 year held on September 6. His talk on the future of private education in .•Vmcrica exposed a serious problem for us. At the present time 40 to 45 per cent of all students arc educated in private scliools. The supporters of pri­vate education will have to expend great efforts in order to maintain this percentage in view of the large increase in population in the United States. In a lighter vein Jim said he was proud of the family ol .Alumni Clubs. Whereier he s*>'^r *° '^Y part of the country, the Alumni Clubs make him feel at home. 
Chairman JACK CONSIDINE succeeded in bring­ing out about 120 members and guests for the meeting. Besides Jim Armstrong, our special guests for the evening were new freshmen, members of the Class of 1959. Does that make you feel old, you '49ers??? There were 12 freshmen present, evenly divided between the schools of Engineering and Commerce. The Buffalo Campus Club also had a good representation at the meeting. 
JOE RY/VN got his raffle books dbtributed to evcr^-body present. Wc arc having a drawing In November of an all-expcnse trip for two persons to the ND-S. Cal. game in Los Angeles, Nov. 26. The raffle should be our best money-maker of the year and it looks like it will go over the top. 
A Sports Night under the chairmanship of JACK LaVlGNE and NICK WILLETT h scheduled for pionship Catholic High School football team of the area. The co-chairmen are shooting high and they should come up with something good on this one. It ^vill be thti first Sports Night the Buffalo Club has sponsored for many years. 
FATHER BILL GARTLAND, CS.C , has been transferred to Stonehlll College In Massachusetts. We u-fll miss him greatly. Vfhen h came to plan­ning any kind of function Father Bill's .adWcc and help was always offered and accepted. FATHER SIMEON GARDINER, C.S.C., also from Father Baker High School, has been selected to fill Father Gartland's shoes. It is a big job but wc are sure he can do it. 
DICK and MARY LEOUS have accepted the chairmanship of our annual Christmas Dance. They arc in the process of forming their committees at thtt wTitlng. Their aim Is to fill the Statler*s main ballroom. 
The events of last summer arc gone but not for­gotten. Our Family Picnic at Akron State Park had the largest turnout In our history. There were about 60 families present and about 200 people including the kids, of course. Not a bad average family!!!! ANN WATSON of the Alumu-ives was chairman. The Alumwtves always run this affair. 
MAURY QUINN finally retired the Buffalo Club's Golf Trophy. He is undisputed Club cham­pion. RUS PHEIL had charge of the Golf Outing. 
Tbe men's Stag Reunion at Cook's Grove was a huge success In the eyes of all those who attended. TO.M RICHARDS and AL KEMNITZER, co-chairmen, had a good committee working' for them and It turned Into a genuine old-fashioned reunion. About half of us took home a prize. 
LOU ALMASI directed a theater party at the Lakeshore Playhouse in Derby during the summer. Tickets were good for 10 nights. The Club re­tained a certain percentage of each ticket we sold and the net proceeds for the club amounted to about $1300. This is a good start for President JACK SHINE'S 1955-56 program. 
—PAUL J. ALLUTIN, Secy. 

BUFFALO—Officers and members of the Board of Directors of the Buffalo Club pose with Alumni Secretary Jim Armstrong, principal speaker, at party for N.D. students. (Left to right, seated) Frank Bennett, Treasurer Ralph Else, President Jack Shine, Armstrong, Rev. Simeon Gardiner, G.S.C., chaplain, Vice-President Cy Rickard, Jack Considinc; (stand­ing) Jim Moulder, Frank Gaglione, Dick Leous, Maury Quinn, Bus Pheil, Nick ^Viilett and Secretary Paul Allwcin. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Novemher-Decemher, 1955 21 
CONN. VALLEY — Hartford alunmi honored the '59 class with a "Frosh Supper." Shou-n with President Jim Flaherty, '53, (R), are John Downcs, Tom Flaherty, Jim Pino, Mike Connor, Gerard Martineau, Don Rulli and Bob Sienko. 
Calumet District 
The Calumet District alumni enjoyed a golf stag at Lake Hills Countr>* Club on July 26. Committee members included JAMES MORRISON, ERNIE HUFFMAN. WILLIAM RILEY. JACK OGREN, JERRY GAINER, TOM CLIFFORD, JAMES PURCELL and TOM RADIG/\N. 
FATHER THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., associate director of the Notre Dame Foundation, was celebrant of the Mass and guest speaker at the annual Communion Breakfast held on October 9. 
Capital District 
The Capital District Club held a meeting on the evening of August 9 at the University Club, Al­bany. President C. F. REG^VN, JR.. presided. Guest speaker ^*-as JOHN S. MacCAULEV, ND Foundation reprcscnlalivc for the Northeastern U­
S. Mr. MacCauIey spoke on "What's Going on at ND Today," an cniertajning and enlightening talk, stressing the progress and growth of ND and the importance of the ND Foundation. The re­sultant volunteer soh'citors for the Foundation in this area are WALT O'BRIEN, JOE CONLON. CHARLEY STETTMAN. JIM DRESSER, BOB SHAFER, DON ANTHON'Y. TOM CLEMENTTE and BILL IVLMEY, Mr. JOHN CAMPBELL will continue as City Chairman. 
At an earlier meeting of June 20 a full discus­sion was had on the question of haxing a summer outing. The president appointed the following committee to handle the afTain ^VILLIAM J. BURKE, chairman, FRANCIS X. DISNEY. GUS O'BRYAN and a present student at the Univer­sity, G.-VRRETT A. ROCHE. The efforts of this committee resulted in a tremendously enjoyable picnic on Saturday, August 27, at the Holy Cross Novitiate grounds at Valatic, N. Y. Approximately 45 members and thdr families attended. The proveAIal good time was had by all. 
The next project under consideration is the Holi­day Banquet and dance. —^VILLIAM H. mMEY, Secy. 
Central California 
The local club held a going-away party for Notre Dame students which featured a steak bar­becue in the home of JOHN B. CELLA II. Offi­cets of the club "who entertained the students in­cluded Cella, HAROLD A. BAIR, JOHN GROVES, JAMES PAGLLVSOTTI, JAY GIBSON and M. J. KEYES. Among the students were Jack Bair and Charles Vanonclnl of Fresno, sophomores; W^ill DeCanio, Sanger, sophomore, and Don Thompson, Fresno, senior. Bcrnle Allard, Fresno, star high jumper at Notre Dame, \**as unable to attend. 
—J.1MES PAGLUS07TI, '3G, Secy: 

Central New York 
TIic club's annual golf party was on July 13 at the Auburn Country Club. Rcser\'atIons iverc handled by MIKE RYAN. 
The club's annual student scndoff was held on September 8 at the Troop K Cavalry Club. DON KLEE and MIKE RYAN" were in charge of ar­rangements. A ball game was staged at 6 p.m. followed by dinner several hours later. 
The Ladies' AuxHIar>' recently received an in­teresting write-up in ilic local paper regarding tlicir activities. Tiicy met for the first time in >farch, 1954, and have been very active in the club pro­gram since tlien. Last year the auxiliary joined tlie men's group at the Communion Breakfast on December 8. Tlie ladies' telephone committee has proved in\-aluable In reminding alumni members of club events. Mrs. EDWIN W. KENEFAKE has ben re-elected to ser\-e a second term as president. Assisting her arc the follo^ring: Mrs. EDMUND P. CLEARY, Wce-prcsidcnt; Afrs. FRANK KANE, secretary; and Mrs. THEODORE E. DE.MMERLE, JR., treasurer. Mrs. THOMAS M. RYAN heads the group's telephone committee while Mrs. EUGENE W. DALY, JR.. is in charge of publicity. 
Chicago 
Tliere's a unique fitness about our calendar year— the Chicago Club's actlWt/es s<* ffom Universal Notre Dame Night to Universal Notre Dame Night .. . and often to a club president It seems as if his nights arc universally dedicated to Notre Dame. 
Which b as it should be, I suppose. There arc feiv things that arc more of a privilege than being named president of an organization devoted to Notre Dame, especially when it's an association numbering more than 2,000 men. 
It is 3 cbaracteristic of human nature that each succeeding president hopes to make his year the best c\*er .. . to get the most members active (pacing dues, attending events, etc) Yet I think if you gathered all prexles together, and gave us ' scopalamine, or whatever they call that truth scrum, we'd all confess that at the bottom of our hearts there Is one common desire: to do the ^ best wc can for Notre Dame and the Notre Dame 1 men in Chicago. 
There's somethingr else we share in common, too: an ackuOTvIcdgmcnt that here or there, in large or small, wc all make mistakes. But that's a fairly human failing. So here's apologies in advance if this administration offends in any way . . . and let it go at that. Wc promise we'll do our best, , 
It seems to me as wc draw near the half way mark of the term that it's about time some credit was given to the bo>*s who really nm the machine: the other officers and members of the Board of Governors. ROBERT EMMETT WRIGHT of Palos Park, is first \-icc-presidcnt, and it will be his voice you'll hear next over this microphone, in 1956. 
FRANK MILLIGAN of GICUMCTV IS second vice-president. TOM BROGAN of Oak Park secretary and BILL DWTER of the South Side is treasurer. DANIEL J. O'CONNOR, North Side member of ^ the class of 1905 (beat THAT if you can!) is honorar>- president. 
Here arc the members of the Board of Gov­ernors: PRIAL CURR.\N, JIM GALL.\GHER, JIM HAGERTY, GEORGE MENARD, PAUL RICE, AL STEP.\N, JACK THORNTON, FR.\NK LOLLI, RAY COLLINS, JIM DOYLE, MAURY LEE, JACK MORLEY, JOHN -O'BRIEN, JOE PAGLURI, KEN ENRIGHT. PHIL FACCENDA, JIM FERSTEL, BILL HICKEY, DON HOGAN. FRED JOYCE. JR.. BILL KENNEDY, WALTER KIOLBASA, JIM O'KEEFE and ROGER WTHTE. 
Tliere are our teammates for 1955—and I'd like to lead a big "He's a Man" for all of them. M 1 go through the activities of the club year, you'll sec why . . . 
First item on the agenda back in April was, of course. Universal Notre Dame Night. BOB WRIGHT pitched in and did a fine job as chair-A man. Our guests were Rear Admiral Daniel V. Gallcr>-, USN. and tlie popular Chicago Daily News "Town Crier" Tony WeiUcl, who runs one of the vcr>' best columns this old newspaperman ever read. We had a good turnout of about 250, and went only slightly into the red. 
Tiie next project undertaken—and that's a good choice of words, it almost becomes an undertaker's business when a chairman finishes the job—is the club directory. The board voted this year, after a thorough study of the subject, to s^^'ltch the pub­lication to another firm—Chicago's Cathoh'c Service Bureau. BILL KENNEDY, ^vho as vice-president of Hensley Company, one of the best direct mail houses in the country, is versed in matters pub­licational, lowered his neck bravely to the block and consented to act as chairman. He has done a TERRIFIC job. Bill has kept me informed on all ^ the ins and outs of the job, and believe me, he has had to burn the candle at both ends to keep it rolling . . . and I refer to a votive candle. 
Our golf tournament was held back in July. With true ^^cCabe timing, I picked the night be­fore the All-Star baseball game in Milwaukee, whidi drained all the top sportswrlters out of the cit>-—usually tliey are guests and/or guest speakers, with a corresponding benefit to our publicity. (But FRED JOYCE put his muscle behind the story and got it in the papers and over the radio—incidental­ly, Fred has done a great job for us for news stories and publicity.) 
It's a gag I've used too often this year, but it will alwaj-s be a true statement as far as I'm concerned: DON HOGf\N (not Ben) was our Man of the Year. He \s'as chairman of the golf tourney, and came through with a really great job, despite _• the handicap mentioned in the preceding paragraph. The Weather was wonderful, the dinner great, and we had a fine crowd. To top it all, we made over $500. 
And it's about time I remedied what has been an oversight too long—the club owes a great debt of gratitude to Mr. FRED SNFTE, SR., who has • allowed us the use of his Klmwood Countr>' Club for years for free—wc have paid only the price of the dinner, and from the excellence of the meal I suspect that wc get a break on the food, too. Mr. Suite is of course the father of the world­renowned—and universally loved—"Boiler Kid," the late FRED SNTTE. JR. The club is planning to take steps to express its gratitude In tangible form —more on this later. 
An annual event that may not get as much no­tice as it dcscr\-es is the Freshmen-Dads meeting. GIL SEAMAN, ivho you will remember as a fine president two years back, look over as chairman In wonderful fashion. FATHER GENE BURKE, one of Notre Dame's most loved priests for many 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 
years, headed a fine team that came up from the university to speak to the entering Chicago fresh­

.'^ men and their fathers. Others from ND speaking were Alumni Secretary JIM ARMSTRONG and MOOSE KRAUSE. BILL CAREY of the Foun­dation, also gave an inspiring talk, as did JIAf MARTIN, class of *23 and former honorary presi­dent. What everyone present considered as the largest crowd in the histor>* of the event was pres­ent—some 350 freshmen and dads. The affair is held to give the bo>-s a preliminary vic^v of what is aliead for them under the Dome, and to give them an early start on forming friendships with future schoolmates. Also to interest them in be­coming loyal members of the Chicago club when they graduate, too, of course! Actlwtics hard aliead—though they may have taken place when you read this—are the fall in­formal dance and the opening lecture in our scries of talks by university representatives. 
The dance is being held on the night of the telecast of the Miami game, and at the same hotel, the Sheraton. It is not in connection with the telecast, however. Profits are to go to the club*5 scholarship foundation, which has to-datc helped nine worthy young men to attend Notre Dame. It*s hoped that somewhere in the neighbor­hood of 200 couples will be in the neighborhood. 
Vou*!! read elsewhere in this issue about the series of informal lectures which the club is holding this year. It's been a pet brainchild of the under­signed for many years—I remember Gil Seaman making an earnest eftort to work it into his sched­ule two years ago. FATHER CHARLES SHEEDY, C.S.C., dean of the college of Arts and Letters, has kindly consented to begin the series on October 9 with a talk on Liberal Education Today, Tliis event, too, is at the Sheraton. 
There will be another lecture at the Sheraton on November 13, subject and speaker to be named later. 
On December 4, at the new St. Peter's cliurch. our most uplifting event of the year will be held —the annual Club Mass. It will be followed by our Communion Breakfast at the Hotel LaSallc. PHIL FACCENDA is doing a fine job as chairman of this memorable event. He was so taken with Father Gene Burke's fine talk at the Freshmen-Dads' meeting, where Phil ser\*ed as an usher, that he got Father's promise to talk at the break­fast also. I don't think any words of mine are needed or it-ould add anything to the vahie of at­tending the breakfast. Again the Mass will be dedicated to the Blessed Virgin Mary, our beloved patroness, and it will be offered for the welfare and intentions of all club members. 

Later in the year we arc hoping to have a formal dance, where pop and mom can get out their toppers and tinsel from the mothbag and sho^v junior a thing or two about stepping out. 
That sums up the year's program of activities. As you can see, -we've tried to touch all the bases —social, spiritual, and something new—intellectual. It's up to you whether or not the year is a suc­cess . . . and needless to say, we'll be interested 
to see. One more thing about this matter of covering all angles. The informal dance of October 7 is priced as low as we can possibly' get an event in the Loop, at a representative meeting place. It's only 55 a couple. It was purposely staged that ^vay, for this reason: for years we have been told on all sides that our social events were too expensive— that there was a large segment of the younger club members who were eager to attend these functions if we priced them right. Tills should prove whether or not this line of thought is correct, or is only a line of thought. 
Another important innovation is being launched this year. As you know, the size of the member­ship and the extent of the area covered makes it impractical to plan meetings per se. ^Vc try to get the business of the club covered through decisions of the board of governors—and then inform the general membership of these decisions by club-wide letters. Tlicse solutions are far from ideal, how­ever—they are too cold to enkindle or fan the spirit of loyalty and enthusiasm evcr>' club needs to stay alive. After much discussion we decided to make an cfTort to form "branch" clubs in the \*arious sections of the city. 
The South Side has long had such a group, composed of men who lived too far out to get to club affairs very often, but who wanted to gather under the name Notre Dame and discuss the school and school doings. We therefore asked board member KEN ENRIGHT to be our representative in this group, to tell us of their needs and wishes and what events they plan. ROGER WHITE volun­teered to attempt the formation of a similar group on tlie North Side and ^VALTER KIOLB.-VSA on the West Side. 
Ken reports that South Side events have been well attended. Rog White has taken the step of planning an informal dance for the North Side to be held at the Michiana Shores Country' club 
COLUMBUS — A mighty foursome at the club*s annual golf day included (L to R): Ed Krause, Terry Brcnnan, Jack Grant (pro) and John Igoe. 
on the night of December 2—and all club-members are invited. Walter Kiolbasa b planning a^meeting soon of interested West Siders to get. that: section ­launched. 
Another project of the club, which your *uinble­servant headed up several years ago and which ts now very ably du-ected by FRANK MILUGAN, is the Prep School committee. Frank and his ^des have done a great job at this assignment of repre­senting the university at "college days" held in high schools around the city and neighboring sub­urbs, telling interested and eligible youths the cold facts and the warm truths about Notre Dame. Perhaps the biggest facet of the job was the care­fully prepared report which Frank has just com­pleted, telling the objectives and background of the committee. In closing, I quote from It in part: 
REPORT OF NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO PREP SCHOOL COMiHTTEE 1953-1955 

I. Purposes in establishing the Prep School Com­mittee of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago were in part: To broaden and better the sources from \vhich Notre Dame draws its students by bringing information about the University to each year's senior classes In Chicago area high schools and by informing the administrations of these high schools fparliailarly the counsellinir departments) of the opportunities and courses afforded by Notre Dame for its students. 
II. Initially, high schools in the area were sep­arated into four categories: I) High schools already having college day programs to which Notre Dame is invited, and which we would like to attend. 2) High schools already having college day programs to which Notre Dame is invited and which we feel would be unproductive because of their past history 
' of not sendini* alumni to Notre Dame. 3) High schools presently having college day programs to which Notre Dame is not beine or has not been inx-itcd. 4) Hi^;h schools presently not having col­lege day programs, but having a student body that we would like to contact for Notre Dame. 
Thus far in our operation, we have accomplished adequate handling of categories 1 and 2 above. We have made some progress in category 3 and hope 
to have progress to report on category 4 this Fall. 
IH. Our committee is composed of 20 alumni from the Chicago area. TTicse men are asked to give a maximum of thr'?e evenings each year to the work of the Committee. 
IV.
 In our first year of operation, we appeared at 20 college day programs at as many high schools. In our second year, we appeared at sLx additional high school college day programs. ^XTiile this does not represent a large increase, it does represent the beginning of close association with school ad­ministrations and student counsellors that can be very important in helping us bring the Notre Dame story to outstanding students at these schools. 

V.
 A brief description of our tools and training follows. Tlie pamphlet "Facts for Freshmen," a\-ailable from the University, constitutes cfur major implement because It includes nearly all the in­formation which each committee member needs to have at his command. Each man. in addition, carries with him to each program a complete set of the college bulletins of the University for the current year. To each senior who indicates inter­est, the committee representative is prepared to distribute a copy of the small descriptive back­ground folder also available from the University, an application blank for admission, and a postcard request for the appropriate college bulletin in which the senior Is interested. Our committee member then collects these cards and fort%*ards them to our Committee chairman for statistical needs before sending them on to Father Thornton for appro­priate action in forwarding these bulletins. This collection by the committee representative fore­stalls the ps>-chological barrier that may exist be­cause of normal human procrastination In failing to mail these cards. 


VI. Finally, for general public relations benefit to the University and to the Committee, the Notre Dame Club of Chicago has hosted, at the inWta--. tion of its Prep School Committee, the principals of the boys* Catholic High Schools of the area at-our Universal Notre Dame Night cel^ration Jn; 1951^ and 1955. 
Well, that's the commercial for this issue, men. T hope it hasn't been so long you tuned us out, or failed to get the message. Actually, I can sum up the message for you very quickly, m very-few words: 
We, your officers and board of governors, are doing everything we can to make the Notre Dame 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ November-December^ 1935 23 
DALLAS — James P. Swift received the club's Man of the Year award from Father Hesburgh. 
Club of Chicago a good club, an organization you'll be proud of .. . if you have suggestions, let us know (at 38 South Dearborn, ANdover 3-6063) .. . or if generally speaking you like what we're doing—come along and help us do it. Sec you at the next event! 
—JOE .McCABE, '33, Pres. 

Cincinnati 
On July 30, the Club held its annual summer dance at the Makete%\-ah Country Club. JOHN FEA.D was responsible for the successful affair. 
A luncheon was given on September 15 at the University Club in honor of_ the Freshmen u-ho are attending Notre Dame this year and their fathers. 
The first meeting of the current year was held September 20. President BOB McCAFFERTY ap­pointed DICK A'HEARK chairman of the annual Scholarship Ball to be held December 27 at the Netherland Plaza Hotel. 
-DICK A'HEARN, '44, Sec>-. 

Cleveland 
The following men were elected to offices for the 1955-1956 term: CREIGHTON E. MILLER, *44, President; FRANCIS J. NfcGRODER, JR., HI, Vice-President; ARTHUR J. WOOD, JR., '52, Secretan-; AUGUSTIVE A. STEFANEK, '52, Treasurer. 
Immediately thereafter the officers appointed tlie follou-ing men to the Board of Governors: AL­FRED GRISANTI, '31, Chairman of the Board, FRANCIS GAUL, *49, JOHN MATOUSEK, '33, ROBERT O'MALLEY, »50, GUY GALLARDO. '53, ROBERT STACK, '41, VINCENT DeCRANE, '50, JACK DOYLE, '44, and THOMAS BYRNE, '28. 
The Board's first official action ^%*as to appoint REV. BERNARD FLYNN, '38, of St. Catherine's Parish as Chaplain, and JOHN CHAPLA, '23, as Honorary President. 
Plans have been made for the various spiritual and social activities whicli the 600 alumni partici­pate in each year. It ts the intention of the club and its officers to bring to Cleveland nationally prominent figures in the fields of religion, educa­tion, politics and sports to scr\-e as guest speakers at the activities staged for the alumni, their fami­lies and friends. 

This year there have been two new committees established which we think will do a great deal of good. Tlie first Is the publicity committee whicli will be made -up of men in the advertising and public relations field. 
The other new committee will be called the "Old and New Members Committee" and its func­tion will be to get new members and recent gradu­ates acquainted with the present members of the club. This committee will be headed by FRANK McGRODER. 
Another successful outing was held at CHUCK ROHR's farm on June 26. Those attending in­cluded students, alumni and their guests. FATHER LOUIS THORNTON, C.S.C., was present from the University. After those present had partici­pated in baseball, horseback riding and a fine meal, the climax of the day was the recitation of the rosarj- at Chuck's beautiful grotto. FRANK GAUL served as chairman and was assisted by FRANK PAYNE, BOB LALLY, T. BRUNER, LEO MURPHY. BILL BEARGIE and EDDIE KILLEEN. 
FRED FRIEND and JOHN CHAPLA co-chaJr­manned another successful golf party on July 21 at the Elyria Country Club. BILL WALSH and JACK L^'^DRY were guests from the University-. 
In conjunction with the ND-Miami game closed TV circuit the club had a pre-game get-together for alumni and friends at the Cleveland Hotel. 
BOB DO^^•D and BOB O'MALLEY were co-chairmen of this year's annual scholarship raffle. Plans have been formulated for the Family Com­munion Breakfast to be held on December 11 with FRANK PAYNE as chairman. The Statlcr Hotel will be the scene of the annual Christmas dance on December 30. Arrangements are being made by JI.\1 UPRICHARD and ART CAREY. 
The club was saddened by the death of two member and the brother of another; CYRIL P. ENTRUP, '33; DR. HIRAM J. McCARTHY, '09, and Ed Prokop, brother of JOE PROKOP, '41. 
—ART WOOD 
 ?• i V 

Columbus 
The annual family picnic was held this year on 
Sunday, July 31. A large attendance of Notre 
Darners, young and old, were present. 
On September 7 the annual stag outing was held 
at the Falter Farm several miles south of Columbus. 
Some 40 young men including eight freshmen were 
given a scndofT for the new school year. A Softball 
game ended in a tie but it did develop an appe­
tite for the food and refreshments that followed. 
Tlie committee of BOB MURPHY, HARRY NES-; 
TER and JOHN FLENZ saw to it that evcrj-onc ? 
had a good time. I 
The winner of the Florida Vacation raffle was 
Mr. Joseph F. Schrenk, 163'/^ West Wheeling St., 
Lancaster, Ohio. Our thanks to BOB ECHEN-' 
RODE, the chairman, and to all those alumni who 
assisted in this project. 
At the present writing it looks as though we will 
have another successful football special. This year 
we go to the Xa\y game October 29 and chairman 
AL EICHENLJXUB reports a lively sale. 
—L.\RRY STEMBER, Sec>-. 

Connecticut Valley 
Our second annual Freshman Supper for this 
year's ingoing Connecticut Valley freshmen was held 
Sfonday evening. September 12, at the Hartford 
Club. Follounng a chicken dinner, FATHER C/VRL 
SCHERER, our newly chosen chaplain from St. 
Gabriel's Church in Windsor, gave an excellent 
talk concerning the Virgin Mary. A short film on 
the origin of the Victorv- ^^a^ch and some colorful J^ 
slides of the campus gave the ntw men an insight 
into campus life and recalled many pleasant mem­
ories for the club members. 
On Nfonday evening, September 19, the Waverly 
Inn was the scene of a statewide testimonial dinner 
for FATHER HESBURGH. Due to an unavoidable 
conflict, however, Fatlier Hesburgh was unable to 
attend, and FATHER JOYCE was the principal 
speaker. Altliough the threat of a hurricane kept 
many away, a sizeafile gathering of alumni and 
friends enjoyed the roast beef dinner and Father 
Joyce's enlightening talk about the University. 
—LOU BERGERON, Secy. 

Dallas 
The Notre Dame Club of Dallas is comparable to the television business in that it no longer rccog-. nizes the **summer slump." /Vlumni business goes on as usual regardless of the weather, the season —and in our case the status of Southern Method­ist's football aggregation. 
\\'hich brings to mind the Dallas-to-South Bend Special Train which did not go as a strictly 100 percent SMU group. There were just enough ND ahmmi to remind the SMU contingent that their opening season game was tough. 
With football in the air—it just naturally looms as our Club's top activity. So—on October 16 we gathered at the Lakewood Countr>' Club and through that fine medium of television (sometimes known as radio with illustrations) we watched the ND-Michigan State game. The wives were in at­tendance and, as has been the case in the past, these TV-gatherings develop into vcr>- pleasant and memorable occasions. (Above the din of the TV you can hear voices, female ones, swapping menus ^'• and child-rearing ideas!) 
To more or less launch our '55-'56 season, we held a Father-Son-New Student Gathering last August at the Lakewood Country* Club. 
LARRY COOKE of nearby Ennis, Texas, and a current >'arsity quarterback, gave us a rundown as ; well as narrated a film of '54 football highlights. New students were thus sent ofT to campus witli our blessings. 
Neil Lamping, the club's first scholarship awardce, is now living under the Dome and his progress and activities are a fine source of conversation among Dallas alumni. 
x\ Communion Supper, which events have been so successful in the past, is scheduled for Decem­ber 4. 
There are rumblings of some pretty sizeable ac­tivities by the distaff side of our club—but more >^' of that later when the Ladies' Auxiliary reveals its plans. 
—BUDDY GOLDMAN, Publicity Chairman 

24 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1953 
Dayton 
•* Our regular smoker took place at tlic Gibbons Hotel September 14, at whicli time we discussed the Na^-y game trip being sponsored by our local alumni. Also, our first recipient of the Bob Raney scholarship fund, is now enrolled in the fall term. —HARRY WORMxVN, Sec>-. 
Dearborn 
The club's family picnic was held on June 17 at GERRY WAYNO's place. Arrangements were In charge of JOHN KILBAXE, JOE KR^\MER, BILL HOLDEN, BILL FURY and E,\RL FUHR­MAX. The summer dance was staged In ^Vayno's Gardens (i.e., our president's back yard) on July 
23. Members of the committee were Rita Wayno, Pat Sarb and Rosemary* Dolan. 
Tlie second annual golf party was on August 27 at the Birch Hill Country Club. JOHN SCHAE­FER ser\xd as chairman. 
Delaware 
Tlie Annual Summer Picnic was held recenllv at the New Castle farm of TOM DILLON, '37. Some 20 families attended, totaling approximately 65 persons. 
Our mailing list boasting of Its largest total since Club was "chartered," is 60 strong. Wc are look­ing for^vard to a most active Fall. 
—ALEX PETRILLO, Secy. 

Denver 
At the Denver Notre Dame Club summer picnic held in August approximately 65 club members, wives and children participated. After a fast game of volleyball athletic contests were held. Winners in the children's divisions were: Dan Smith, Greg­ory Roberts, Jean Ryan, Larry Robldoux, Michael Ryan, Mary Ann Gargan, Bernle Clarke, Nancy Clarke. Ted Clarke, Paul Clarke, Cathy Shea, Don Robldoux, ^fary Ann ^Vynne. After an exciting treasure chest hunt the prize was shared by all the children. DR. PHIL CLARKE proved to be the club's fastest runner. The women's shoe kicking contest, which has fast become a tradition of the annual picnic, was won this year by TINA GARGiVN. She joins the ranks of such notables as Mrs. JOHN COYNE, Mrs. TONY POJ-\LO.% and Mrs. PHIL CL.\RKE. 
Door prizes were ^von by the following club 
members' families: AL 0'ME/VRx\, DR. O'DEA, 
BILL BRADLEY, EL.MER UTN'NE, FRANK 
COX^V'AY, DR. JIM MOXAGHAX, GERRY 
SHE^V, LEO ROBIDOUX, JACK RY/\X and 
TOM CURRIGAN. 
BOB FLYNN, general cliairman, was assisted by DR. JIM .MONAGILVN who handles the public address s^-stem; TOM GARG.VX, GENE 0'ME.\RA. JACK RYAS, DR. PHIL CL.\RKE, GERRY SMITH, GERRY SHE*V handled the athleu'c events. 
A dinner meeting of the Denver Notre Dame Club was held Thursday, September 15, at Ernie's Supper Club, 2915 W. 44th Ave. Notre Dame Club Alumni, w*ivc$ and guests attended this affair. 
L/VWRENCE T. "BUCK" SIL\W, nc^vly-ap­polnted head football coach at the Air Force Academy, was guest speaker for the evening. He is a graduate of Notre Dame (1922). Buck was a former star tackle" on ND football teams from 1919 to 1921. He has coached at: North Carolina State, Xe\-ada University, Santa Clara, California University, and the San Francisco 49crs profes­sional football teams. 
Tlic club's annual Christmas dance Is scheduled for December 29 at the Town House' Supper Club In Aurora, Colo. Eddie Santangelo and his quartet have been engaged for this affair. 
The Denver club sponsored a special football train to the Notre Dame-Na\Y game in co-opera­tion with the Burlington Railroad. JIM HANLON w*as chairman of the committee and proceeds from the trip go for the club scholarship fund. 
—TOM GARGAN, Publicity Director 

Detroit 
The club's golf party was held on June 21 at the Glenn Oaks Country Club with BOB WINK as chairman. A new event on the club program was "A Day at the Races'* on July 13. Through the courtesy of the Michigan Racing Association and its vice-president, Mr. Paul Chandler, the members were invited to a cocktail party and lunclieon at the Detroit race track. Arrangements were in charge of JIM BYRNE, chairman. 
The second annual summer festix'al was held In the Botsford Inn on August 13 with a buffet supper followed by dancing. L/\RRY SMITH and ED HICKEY composed the committee In charge of arrangements. 
The third annual "Friendly Foes" pre-season kickoff party was staged on September 8 in the Veterans' Memorial. Under the co-chairmanshlp of ED ROXEY, JR., and GUS CIFELLI, the feature of the evening was a talk by MOOSE KRAUSE and a showing of the 1954 Football Highlights. Alumni, Notre Dame students and their fathers attended the affair. JOHN ANHUT was in charge of the club party at the closed circuit television show of the Miami-Xotre Dame game on October 
7. The party took place at the Sheraton-Cadillac Hotel. 
Eastern Kansas 
A joint meeting between the Eastern Kansas Alumni Chib and the Hayden Booster Club was held on July 13. The Highlights of 1954 football film was shown to the group. About 130 people attended the moWe. PAUL HURD, Jx\CK PAR­RY and FRANCIS DcBACKER handled arrange­ments. 
Msgr. Eugene F. Vallely is chaplain of our club. 
El Paso 
A dinner-dance was held In July with J.-VIME MORA as host at the Gun Club in Juarez, Mexico. Over 40 members, their wives and guests had an enjoyable evening. After two years in the Army, ED JENNINGS and JOSE NAVAR, both of the Class of '53, have returned to the ND Club of £1 Paso. Ed is employed in the publicity depart­ment of the £1 Paso Natural Gas Company and was married to tlie former GIna Clare Gilmore of Huntington Park, Calif., on September 10. 
—TIM H.ANR.\H.\N, Secy. 

Erie 
Tlie big event of tlie summer was the annual Notre Dame picnic which was held on Sunday, September 4, at Lalce Pleasant. The Erie Club on campus handled the picnic—RAYMOND LEGLER, 
DETROIT — Reports of UND Night are still being received. Above group participated in the gala occasion sponsored by Detroit aliunni. Left to right: Wm. A. Mayberry, pres.. National Bank of Detroit; Arthur D. Cronin, ND Club pres.; Irving Arihiffy, vice-pres. of Ford ^, Motor Co.; Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Notre Dame Foundation director and guest speaker; E. C Quinn, vice-pres. of Chrysler 
Corp.; Joseph H. Carey, Club Secy., and dinner chairman; and Frank Walker, pres. of S. S. Kresge Co. 
NoiTt Dam* Alumnus, Novtmher-December, 1955 25 
FORT WAYNE — New- officers arc, seated, left to right: Robert J. Klingcnberger, '51, secy.; and J. Thomas O'Reilly, '44, prcs. Standing, left to right: John B. Palmer, Jr., '50, 
treas.; and Robert E. O'Reilly, '43, vice-pres. 
JR., chairman, and FRED STRASSER, co-chair­man, botli of the class of 1957. They did a fine job, planned games, dancing, prizes and an excel­lent dinner. I might mention that they were ably assisted by tlicir parents, Mr. and Mrs. RAY­MOND LEGLER, SR., and Mr, and Mrs. FRED STRASSER, SR. JOHN GOULD's mother also gave the bov-s a hand when it came to the cook­ing! These dialrmen not only planned and took care of the entire picnic but they also visited each alumnus in the area to make sure they were in­vited and that they received their tickets. Need­less to say, the alumni were well represented and thoroughly enjoyed themselves. Tlierc were 110 Notre Dame alumni, students, and friends at the picnic 
Some of the alumni seen at tlic picnic were At­tomev and Mrs. JOSEPH BARBER (AB 1936) and their three cliildren; RICHARD McCORMICK (1955) and his fiancee Miss ifaryann Nash; Attor­ney and Mrs. MAURICE COUGHLIN (Law 1929); LEO CARNEY (1930) and his daughter; Mr. and Mrs. TONY ZAMBROSKI (1952); JIM MAHONEY (1951); Mr. and Mrs. JOHN Mc­CORMICK (1951); Mr. and Afrs. MICHAEL YARBENT (1947), who have recently moved into their new home at 4211 Trask Avenue in Erie; Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT ^^^'ENSCHEL (1949), who Is mth the American Sterilizer in Eric 
Our alumni president in Erie, JOE HIPP (1W9), entered the priesthood recently at St. Bonavcn­ture*s College in Olcan, New York. 
ENSIGN TOM YOUNG (1953) has finished his 5cr\icc with the Na\y and leaves for ^\'harlon Scliool, Umversit>' of Pennsylvania, this montli. 

BILL GRANT (Commerce 1945) is currently seen on our local TV station—part of his being Assistant Sales and Advertising Manager of Firch Baking Company. Bill and Mary Agnes no**' have three boys, the last one, Christopher, was bom last February-
JOHN and Mar>-ann YOUNG (Engineering 1951) visited Mar>- Pat.and KEN THOREN (Journalism 1951) in Nc^v York over tlic Labor Day week end. Thcv also saw -fiOB EDMONSON (Engineering 1951). 
DR. FRED G.ABRIEL (BS 1936) is closing his office in Eric and is going to study Radiology for one year in St. Vincent's Hospital in Erie and tlicn one year post-graduate in Philadelphia. 
Attorney and Mrs. JOSEPH MacKRELL (Law 1952) welcomed a new daughter this summer. DON BUSECK (Law 1955) married the former Miss Frances Quinn in June and they arc living in Sn>-der, New York, where Don works for Weed and Company. —THOM MCCARTHY, Seo*. 
Fort Lauderdole 
The Notre Dame Club of Fort I^uderdale has met regularly cverj* month throughout the summer and each meeting proved a tremendous success. Many plans were made for the big weekend of the Notre Dame-Miami game. The club sponsored a cocktail party and dinner preceding the game 
25 Notre Dame Alumnus^ November-December^ 1955 
with llie entire local contingent going to the Orange Bowl in chartered buses. 
The club extends a cordial invitation to all \ visiting alumni who are in the Fort Lauderdale vicinity to visit with them at the regular meetings on the second Thursday of each month. Full in­formation regarding club get-togethers can be ob­tained by contacting GEORGE GORE, sccrctarj-, who is listed in the Fort Lauderdale telephone director)-. 
—GEORGE GORE, Scc>-. 

Fort Wayne 
Ttie annual stag picnic was held on September 8 at Voigts Retreat with about 40 club members and on-campus students attending. JACK SOSEM­HEIMER was Chainnan of the picnic and ARTIE HOFFMAN, BOB KE/\RNEY and JACK PALMER helped out. Again the volley ball court got a good working over, and others played baseball, basket-^ ball, cards and horseshoes. As usual, refreshments ­and food were good and plentiful, and evcr>-onc Iiad a good time. 
During tlie business portion of the meeting new officers were elected for the next two years. They are: J. THOMAS O'REILLY. President; ROBERT 
E. O'REILLY, Vice-President; ROBERT J. KLINGENBERGER, Sccrctarj-,* and JOHN B. PALMER, Treasurer. It was also announced that ROY E. GRIMMER, JR., has been appointed the new City Chairman by the Xotrc Dame Foundation. 
Retiring officers arc: ROBERT E. KE^VRNEY, President; MORRIS J. DeWALD, Vice-President: GERALD F. PUTNAM, Secretary-; and KENNETH 
L. SEYMOUR. Treasurer. These fellows have done a fine job as officers and the club gave them a good round of applause as testimony of the fact. 
—ROBERT KLINGENBERGER, Secy. 

Flint 
TIic first annual Notre Dame Club of Flint Fam­ily Picnic was held on the HERB JOHNSON farm on West Mt. Morris Road on June 26 from 2 to 5 p.m. Sixty members and guests with 55 children were in attendance and had a hilarious time. Through the courtcs>- of Mr. JOHN GER-m' , JR., of Channel 5, Bay City, Zig and Vivian Baker entertained witit guitar, violin and animal balloons for the children. TOM JOHNSON was 
chairman and BILL MINARDO, master of cere­monies. Tlie prize of a lO-pound ham for the largest family present went to Mr. and Mrs. PERCY J. SHxVGANE with a family of seven. Mrs. PETER GIAMINADA of California received a prize for coming the furthest distance to the picnic. Miss C. S. Minardo won the door prize of a dozen > Notre Dame water glasses. TJic youngest child was Anthony Campanelle. two months old. who re­ceived two silver dollars for his bank. The com­bined ages of the oldest couple was won by Mr. and Mrs. ARCHIE Cx\MPBELL. 
Mr. and Mrs. Johnson offered the hospitality of their beautiful farm for a repeat performance naxt year, and those who attended were enthusi­astic about coming again. 
To our knowledge, the first football excursion from Flint to Notre Dame was sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of Flint. With the help of the Flint Chapter of the Knights of Columbus, wlio assisted in selling tickets and in aiding in the provision of food and beverages on the train, 350 enthusiasts, including tlie wives, from Flint and cn\-irons left Flint Saturday morning, September 24, at 8:30 a.ra. for Notre Dame. They toured the grounds of the University, witnessed the thrill-.| ing game with Southern Methodist, and returned to Flint at 9:15 p.m., extremely happy with their experiences of the day. 
Xfonsignor Afayottc of St. John Vianney Church and Chaplain of the Knights of Columbus Council, accompanied the group. Notre Dame and Soutliern Methodist blankets were raffled off on the train and the winners were Mr." C. Kav­anaugh of 1401 Hughes Street, Flint, .and Mrs. Stanley McAlpino of 1022 Maxine, Flint. ' 
In charge of arrangements for the Notre Dame Club were AL S. FUHRM,\N and DONAtD F. MCDONALD. 
—TED J. M.\NYAK, Secy. 

Grand Rapids 
TIic Notre Dame Club of Grand Rapids held its lA annual golf outing on Wednesday, September 14, at Cascade Hills Country Club. Guests for the day were BISHOP ALLEN J. BABCOCK of the Grand 
Rapids Diocese, FATHER SHEEDY, and the old ning was spent by the members and their guests at dustry's picnic site after being postponed by Michi* master himself EDWARD "MOOSE" KRAUSE. the home of Rj\Y PETROUS, the scene of the gan dcw­
•^ The outing consisted of 18 holes of goU in the party. L£S WISDA was chairman of the gala affair, afternoon followed by a Ne\V' York Strip Sirloin On November 26 the members, in a group, will ably assisted fay DAVE DALY, BILL DOTTER-Steak dinner. Follo\v-ing the dinner, golf and door listen to the Notre Dame-USC game with JOE WEICH, LYMAN HILL and BLAIR McGOWAN. prizes were aicardcd. The low gross trophy •went to BOLxVND narrating. The picnic meal served on a potluck basis' was BOB LINSEY, who circled the 18 holes in 80 blows. Plans are being made for the club to hold Its well consumed by the more than 50 in attcndimcc, 
Bishop Babcock and Moose Krause successfully de­Universal Notre Dame Communion Breakfast on and washed with a hop beverage chased by coffee. fended their team championship for the second December 11. 
Not partaking, naturally, in all of the above, straight year carding an 87 and 83 respectively. 

—HARRY A. MEDEIROS, *53, Secy. but enjoying themselves none the less were TOM The only misfortune which occurred was that UTTER and ROBERT ESCH, current enroUees at Father Shecdy spent most of the afternoon adding the University, up his partner's score, who, incidentally, won the Houston Communal singing, horseshoes, shuffleboard and low gross trophy last year. Ever>'onc enjoyed him­HERB JONES was a guest of the club on Sep­Hoop-x rounded out the event. 
self and is looking fons-ard to next year's outing. 
tember 1 at a luncheon in the Rice Hotel. Herb We arc currently laying plans for another foot­Coming events for the Grand Rapids Club arc was in town to attend the wedding of his daughter. ball trip with JIM MORTELL in charge of ar­the Fall Smoker and get-together at 8:30 on Oc­Tlic club's annual pre-school picnic ^\'as held on rangements. 
tober 11 at the K. of C. Clubrooms. 50 Ransom September 12 at the Afemorial Drive Country Club —JOHN E. LINDBERG, Secy. 
Street NE, and the Xotrc Dame vs. Xa\-y football with TED POWERS as chairman. 
excursion on October 29. 

Kolamozoo 
—GER.\LD HOUSE.M.\N, Secy. 

Indianapolis 
The Kalamazoo Alumni Club held its annual golf The annual Summer Golf Tournament was held outing at the Gull Lake Country Club on July 26 
Harrisburg 
at Highland Country- Club on July 20. JI.M with an attendance of approximately 175. Several ROCAP was chairman and he and the committee of the coachinir staff attended from "Sotie Dame The stillness of the summer was broken on Aug­did an outstanding job providing prizes for ever>--including MOOSE KRAUSE, TERRY BREN­ust 2 by President JOHN DAVIS with an outdoor one. There was a total of 120 golfers present NAN, BILL FISCHER. JAKE KLINE, BILL buffet supper at his home for the Membership and and TOM ^fATEY took low gross honors with a WALSH and JACK LANDRY. Also from the "Activities Committee. Tt was also an occasion to score of 63, barely nosing out JOHN FOLEY. University were FATHER TON! BRENNAN, busi­uelcome FRfWK AfcSORLEY, *25, of Pittsbui^h Guest speakers at the banquet, attended by 175 ness manager HERB JONES and BOB CAHILL. 
—the new chairman of the PennsvK-ania Turnpike former Notre Darners and their friends, were His Guests from Michigan State were basketball coach Commission. CHARLES DOUGHERTY, '26, a Excellent- ARCHBISHOP SCHULTE, Athletic Di­Fordy Anderson, his assistant Jack Bennington and former club member, is back in town also. 
rector MOOSE KR^\USE, Freshman Coach JACK TOM KING, M8, Dean of Men. 
On August 30 the club held a "College Get-L.\NDRY, and Indiana Coach BERNIE CRLM-The club ran football excursions this fall to the Togeiher" party at the K. of C. C(ub which 

MINS. Southern Nfethodist, Ndchigan State and Navy turned out, as planned, to be a mutual benefit 
gathering. Guests were students, the five new boys 
Among the coming events this Fall will be a games. from this area ^vho entered this fall, and their 
special train to South Bend for the Notre Dame-—JOHN PRIHODA, Secy. fathers. Campus movies were shown—many ques­
Na\'y game. This is an annual event for the tions were asked with answers of assorted wisdom 
benefit of the Scholarship Fund. At the Com­
Konsas City 
munion Breakfast on December 11, FATHER AN­
THONY LAUCK, C.S.C., the noted Notre Dame Terrcnce L. Hartigan was the club's scholarship —J. R. GR^VH.\M, '26, Secy. sculptor and art teacher, will be guest speaker. winner this year. Named in honor of ^VilUam —DICK McCALLEY, Scc>-. Rockhill Nelson, the grant of $1600 is to be used in four years at the University. Hartigan was 
—all topped off ^vith good food. 
Hawaii 
chosen from 27 applicants from seven public and 
Jackson 
The Notre Dame Club of Hawaii held its annual parochial schools. C. CRAIG AVHITAKER served reunion and Aloha party for returning and new The Notre Dame Club of Jackson held its second as chairman and ROBERT J. METZLER, ireas­students on September 4, 1955. An enjoyable eve­annual picnic on September 1, 1955, at a local in-
NORTH FLORIDA—The Triendly Foes' party proved a popular event on the club program. It was held in Jacksonville on Sept, 9, with alumni representatives from opponent schools. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ November-Decembery 1955 27 
SAN DIEGO—(Photo on left ) Group scene at the cluh's annual Communion Breakfast held at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Harry E. Afona­han, Jr. Thirty-two alumni and guests were present. (Photo on right) General Francis P. Mulcahy, '14, and two N.D. students, Duane Van Dyke, '58 (left) and the general's son, Tom, '57, were among those who attended the Communion Breakfast. 
Los Angeles 
The dub had a picnic on August 28 at the St. 
Vincent dc Paul Ranch Camp. Alumni, their 
wives, cliildren and Kotrc Dame students attended. 
Danny Thomas is slated to be master oF cere­
monies at the football rally on Friday, November 
25, at 8 p.m. in the Biltmore Hotel. Reservations 
may be obtained by contacting GENE CALHOUN, 
704- South Spring St., Los Angeles—the price is 
$3 per person. 
The annual retreat was held at Manrcsa Re­treat House on the weekend of October 21, Tlie annual sports dinner was staged on October 27 at Pabst Brewery. 
Miami 
The club held a rally on tlie day prior to the Notre Dame-Miami game at the Hotel Shclborne in Miami Beach. A reception and dance was staged on October 8 at 8 p.m. at the Hotel Shelbome. 
Mid-Hudson Valley 
The Notre Dame Club of the Mid-Hudson Valley rccentiv elcclcd the following officers: JOSEPH A. RORICK, '42, president: ANTHONY J. BUONO, '43. vice-president; JAMES J. FLANAGAN, '38, treasurer; and ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL, '36. secretary'. 
The club celebrated Universal Noire Dame Night with a dinner in Kingston, N. Y. Tlie principal speaker ^^-as the Rev. Anthony D. Bntii, S.J., chaplain of the club. The club also held a picnic for the members* families on the grounds of the Cardinal Farley Military' Academy, RlnneclifT, X. Y.. on July 10. 
The club plans a full program for the coming year including a Communion Breakfast and a Christmas dance. It also hopes to get a program of Catholic Action under way. 
—ANDY HUFNAGEL, Seo'. 

Mohawk Valley 
Our organization had a clambake on September 14, 1955, at August's Grove just outside the city of Utica. 
The purpose of the bake was to have the under­graduates and the new students matriculating to Notre Dame as our guests and to have them meet with one another before returning to scliool. 
We also had the fathers of the young lads at the bake and all had a most enjoyable evening. 
MIKE McGUIRL put the bake on for us. His son, Mike, Jr., was graduated in 1952. Young Mike is now in 'SiTacusc studying for his Master's degree in social studies. 
DICK BLOOM sent his regrets that he and his son and friend John Mackin could not attend. The two young fellovv-js are entering ND this JalL 
TONY GIRUZZI, the president of the club, was there, as was VIN FLETCHER, BOB FITZGER­ALD, FRANK DONALTY who is running for City Assessor on the Republican ticket, CHARLIE HITZELBERGER, RAMSY COLLIS, DR. FRANK MARINO, DR. DON GAVAGAN from Herkimer, CHARLES OTT, advertising manager of Munger's Store at Herkimer, LOU CLARK and yours truly. 
DR. DAN SILVUGHNESSY could not attend because of the meeting at Herkimer. FRANK CONNORS and JIM CURTISS also sent their regrets as did BOB PURCELL and GEORGE RICHTER. 
ED DENN, JIM MURPHY, BOB NICKNISH, BOB FLETCHER were among the undergraduates present and also pruent ^\'as a Burdick boy from Clinton who also enters ND this fall. 
ART ^fcGEE of the class of 1932. stopped off in the city on the way to ND where his son, Tim, begins his sophomore year and his other son, Ned, enters as a freshman. Art is now manager of the Metropolitan Life Insurance office in Meridan. Conn., and lives in Wallingford, Conn. 
The affair \vns such a success that arrangements were made to have a similar afTalr on August 8, 1956. 
The annual • Communion Breakfast was discussed at the meeting and it is planned to hold the affair as We have alwa>-s done in the past years. 
Also was discussed the Christmas dance which the undergraduates hold annually and which all of the alumni attend. It is quite an. affair and all arc looking fon*-ard to it, 
NICK DENN, father of Ed, now in attendance at ND and also of Jim, who is studying for the priesthood at ND, assisted us greatly in making the bake a success. ROY NICKNISH, JIM FLETCHER, G\RROL MURPH\', JOHN BUR­DICK were among the fathers present. 
—ED SWEENEY, Secy. 

Muskegon 
Tlie club held a fall smoker on September 27 at the Doo Drop Inn. MIKE CORGAN showed pictures of Central Catholic's victorv* over Cad­illac About 20 members attended. BILL TAR­DANI was chairman in charge of the smoker. 
Stephen Harvath is the recipient of the scholar­ship award. The committee composed of DR. R.\LPH AUGUST, GEORGE CAN'NON, JR., and 
J. FRANK OEHLHOFFEN made the selection on the basis of scholarship and need. 
—LEO L. LINCK, Sco'. 

Naugaf uek Valley 
REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., executive vice-president, was guest speaker at a statewide alumni dinner held recently in the Wavcrly Inn, Cheshire. Three hundred alumni and guests at­tended the affair. Fatlier Joyce cited improve­ments at the University and told those attending about the new telcnsion station which has been in operation since mid-July. Rev. John J. Sulli­\-an was toasimaster while NORBERT HENEBRY sen.cd as cliairman and JAMES J. SCIGLIANO was co-chairman. Introductory speaker wzs Rev. Terrcncc P. McMahon, executive editor of the Catliolic Transcript. The Naugatuck Valley Club sponsored tlio dinner. 
New Haven 
officers for the current vcar arc: president, JOSEPH P. BURNS; \ice-presidcnt, EDWARD A. BYRNE; secretary-treasurer, WALTER LEE. The board of directors is composed of JOHN A. WAR­NER, LAURENCE CULLLNEY, DR. JOHN O'NEIL, JOSEPH BENOrr and JOHN ZDANO­WTCZ. 
—JOE BURNS 

New Jersey 
Officers for this vcar arc: President: DR. PHILIP 
M. PROVISSIERO, '30; \ice-pres!dent: ROBERT 
J. JOYCE, '50; Treasurer: ROBERT S. LARKIN, '43; Secrctar>-: THOXLVS R. FARLEY, '30. 
On Monda>% September 12, at the Militar>- Park Hotel in Newark, the Club-held its annual Fresh­man Welcome. Tliis affair, always a success, is designed to allow matriculating freshmen to meet one another, and to briefly indoctrinate them on 
life at the campus. .About 45 freshmen accom­panied by their Dads attended, and were among the 130 present. The function was under tlic able direction of TOM GREEN. 
DOC PROVISSIERO, Club prcxy, welcomed the guests. HARVEY FOSTER, past president of the National Alumni, and presently in charge of the Newark F.B.L office, related many points of in­terest on the physical and spiritual values of stu­dent life at Notre Dame. JOHN HOGAN of the Campus club, also spoke. In all, the affair was a good start for the club year. 
Among those present, and seen bv this reporter, were: ERNIE XIASINI, JACK LONG, DAN HAL­LOREN, BOB JOYCE, JI.M GILLIS, ELMER MATTHEWS, JERRY IL\LLIGAN, DOC HAYES, D,\N O'NEIL, JOE BYRNE III, ART MULHERN, JI.M SEBOLD, JACK PINDAR, PAUL HUSSAR, JACK KELLY, ED VON HOENE, JACK W1NBERRY, D.\N PARISI and /\NGELO BERTELLI. 
The club ran a train trip to the Pcnn game on November 5. Tlie perennial ro-diairmen, PETE QUINN and DAS O'NEIL, handled ac­commodations. Tliis event is one of the mainstays of the Club treasury. 
—TOM FARLEY, '30, Secy. 

New Mexico 
The Fall meeting of the Notre Dame Club of New Mexico was held on October 10 in Albu­querque. . Plans were formulated for the Annual Communion Breakfast and for a club trip to the Notre Damc-Souihem California game. Newly elected president LOU LUJAN, presided. Other officers elected at the summer meeting arc: GEORGE A. SCHREIBER, Vice-President; ^VIL­LIAM P. HARVEY, Secretary; and FRANK P. HUDSON, Treasurer. 
—AMLLIAM P. HARVEY, Secy. 


28 Notre Dame Alumnus, Novemher-DecemheT, 1955 
New Orleans 
'^'Wit h the advent of the 1955 football season the Notre Dame Club of New Orleans sponsored a shrimp boil in late October. PETE HILBERT, our local president, was in cliarge of the affair. 
Tentative plans have also been made to welcome the Notre Dame basketball team, defending Sugar Bowl Champions, by honoring them u-ith a lunch-con at Arnaud's Restaurant. Expectations arc high that the luncheon will be just as successful as it was last year during the team's stav. 
—EDWARD D. Mca\RTHV, Scc>-. 

New York City 
Tlie club enjoyed the third annual Notre Dame Night at Ebbets Field on June 28 and watched the Dodgers play the Giants. The golf outing was held on August 16 at the Ardslcy Country Club in Westchester, Arrangements were in charge of ' 1VILLIAM TALBOT. The New York Club awarded the annual scholarship this year to Karl 
G. Nfangold, Jr., White Plains, N. Y. The 1955 scholarship is in meraor>' of the iatc WILLIAM 
R. DOOLEY, placement director at Notre Dame until his death last December. Dx\NIEL P. HIG­GINS, JR., was chairman of the committee. 
FATHER THOMAS BRENNAN, C.S.C., Notre Dame's well-known philosophy professor, has ac­cepted the club's inx'itation to be guest speaker at the Communion Breakfast to be held on De­cember 11 at the Waldorf-Astoria. 
Northern California 
New officers elected on August 3 are: president, RICHARD J. AMES, '45; \-ice-presidcnt, JOHN TALLETT, '43; secretary, ED M^VNSFIELD, '31; 
^ treasurer, GEORGE P. SEALY. '48. 
'/% A dinner-dance sendoff party for Notre Dame students was held at Sabeila's Restaurant in San Francisco on September 10. Other events on the club program include: October 15, All-Opponent get-together (Michigan State game); November 7, trip to the us e game; December, the Shrine din­ner for East All-Stars; December 23, Christmas dance; Februar>*, pre-Lenten party; March, club retreat; April, UND Night; June, dinner-dance. 
North Florida 
The primar>' interest of the club's membership during the past few months has been our special train excursion trip to Miami for tlie Notre Damc^ Miami football game. Our train departed from Jackson\nlle with an expected capacity crowd, on the morning of Friday, October 7, arriving in the Sunshine City early in the afternoon. Club Presi« dent FRED J. R^\HAIM, '31, and DICK BRO­DEUR, *50, worked diligently to make this activity a great success. 
On September 9, our club played host to the JacksonWlIc area alumni of the 10 schools on the Notre Dame 1955 football sclicdule st a "Friendly Foe" Smoker. An encouragingly large and en­thusiastic crowd, with representation of all schools, enjoyed a showing of the 1953 and 1954 football highlights, together with a lively discussion of past and future football events. The a/Tair was held at Jacksonville's Hotel Roosevelt, and was so well received that wc plan to make it an an­nual event. 
Representatives of the club were present at the airport to meet the Chicago Bears' football team upon their arrix'al in town for an exhibition game with the Chicago Cardinals. We enjoyed very much renewing acquaintances with Notre Dame alumni on the Bears' team. 
His many friends will be interested to know that a\PT . JOHN F. LxVNAHAN, US.MCR, '43, was recently named Executive Officer of the 2nd .-Vm­phibian Tractor Company, a Marine Rcscr\'c Unit here. 
—BILL KIRCHNER, Secy. 

Oklahoma City 
Tho Notre Dame Afan-of-the-Year award which has not been reported previously In the ALUA!­NUS, was given to John Eberle, a Catholic lawyer who has been active in this area in fighting the principles of communism. He is a graduate of Oklahoma University. The club's Notre Dame Boy-of-thc-Year program is being featured in an­other Section of this issue. 
The annual picnic was held on August 22 at the AfcFarland's country home. About 45 alumni, wives and children attended the afTair. The chair­man was CIL\RLES BRADLEY, '49. 
—ED K.VVANAUGH, Secy. 

Peoria 
The Peoria Notre Dame Club held a "going away" party on September 14 for those students presently attending school and also the neu' 
NEW YORK CITY — The Notre Danie Club of New- York has announced that its 1955 
* scholarship will be in memory of the late William R. Dooley, '26, former University Place­ment Director who died last December. Left to right: Karl G. Mangold, scholarship recipient; Daniel P. Higgins, Jr., Committee Chainnan; and John A. Hoyt, Jr., Chairman of the Club's Trust Fund Committee. 
freshmen. Through the courtesy of FRANK H» MURPHY, '18, Public Relations Manager of Pabst Brewing Co., we were able to hold the meeting in the "Blue Ribbon" room of the brew­ery. DR. CLARENCE V. WARD, JR., '45, dub president, welcomed the incoming freshmen and indoctrinated them into the "Spirit of Notre Dame." 
Plans for the coming year were discussed and chairmen appointed for each function. JERRY WOMBACHER, *51, club treasurer, was appointed churmaa of the committee making arrangements for our Communion Sunday, December 11. LEO SCHRALL, '29, baseball coach and line coach at Bradley University, asked for the support of local Notre Dame alumni in attending Bradley's ath­letic events and was given the job of securing a block of basketball tickets for the Notre Dame-Bradley basketball game next ^vinter. 
Several of the alumni whom we had not seen in a long time were in attendance, including DR. PAUL ROARK, '37, and ROGER GUSTAFSON and DICK M.ASTERSON, who u-as with his son, Jim, an incoming freshman. 
JOHN E. CASSIDY, SR., '17, %vas given a signal honor in being named to the Association of Trial Lauyers at a dinner in Washington, D, C. 
—J, J. LANGTOX, Secy. 

Piiiladeiphia 
ATTENTION ME.MBERS: Regular club meet­ings are held the second Tuesday evening of every month at 8:30 p.m. in the Philopalrian Club, 1923 Walnut Street. 
The club was one of the first organizations in Philadelphia to be invited to inspect the new Bulletin plant. On July 26 wc were shown how the largest evening paper in America Is produced. The initial meeting of the current year was held on September 8 at the Robinson ChevTolet agency shovvTOoms. This company sponsors the Notre Dame football games over the Irish Network. Re­freshments were served by the agency to over 150 members and guests, ^fany undergraduates and freshmen were in the group. 
Plans arc being formulated before this magazine goes to press for the big rally and cocktail party to be held on the weekend of the ND-Penn game. The club b making plans for the annual Com­munion Breakfast to be held on December 11. 
Three of the club officers, BILL BURNS, TO.M DE.MPSEY and the writer were guests at the University of PennsyK-ania's Man-of-the-Year dinner in honor of Bert Bell, professional football com­missioner. 
-JOHN MOORHEAD, Secy. 

Phoenix 
The Notre Dame Club of Phoenix held its first meeting of the new season on September 15. .Ac­tivities for the coming year, including the N.D.­
S.C. game, were discussed. 
—E. V. O'.MALLEY, JR., Secy. 

Pittsburgh 
The annual Golf Outing of the Xotrc Dame Club of Pittsburgh was held on September 7 at the Butler Country Club, Butler, Pa. There were 79 people in attendance including members and their guests. GENE COYNE was once again chairman of this fine event, and did an excep­tionally fine job. Smokey, as we all call him here, has been chainnan of this event for the last several years, and each year the party gets better and better. 
JOHN HUDAK presented a trophy for compe­tition. The trophy will be knou-n as the LEO 
D. O'DONNELL trophy, and will be given as a permanent remembrance to the person who wins the tournament three times. The first winner of this fine trophy was PAUL HUD.AK who won a low gross of 75. The other winners were CHARLIE TOTTEN with a gross of 78, John Hudak and CHARLES DILLON tieing for low net with 74's. No handicaps will be mentioned here. 
After a very fine golf day, the dinner served by the Butler Country Club was again one of 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 29 
NAUGATUCK VALLEY—James J. Scigliano (left) and Norbcrt F. Henebry, Universal Notre Dame Night co-chairmen, look pleased as the evening's speakers admire the program. Priests are (from left) Rev. John Sullivan, first club chaplain, honored guest Rev. Edmund 
P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive >ice-president of Notre Dame, and Rev, Terrence P. McAfahon, executive editor of the Catholic Transcript. 
the features of tlic outing. Prizes were given for 
many difTerent golf events and also as door prizes. 
Friends and members who donated prizes lor this 

ttcnt were: ART ROONEY, President of Pitts­
burgh Steelcrs, BILL SCHNEIDER, VINCE 
SWEENEY, AL DIEBOLD, JOE AIKENS of 
Fort Pitt Brewing Company, FRITZ WILSON, 
BILL 0*BRIEN, JERRY SULLI\'AN and 
GEORGE KINGSLEY. 
One of the highlights of the evening was the 

drawing for the winner of the raffle, prize for 
which was two tickets and an all-expense trip to 
tlic Xa\*\*-Notrc Dame game. This fine prize was 
won by a Mr. James Finn, and needless to say, 
he will be rooting for Notre Dame that afternoon. 
Among the sport celebrities who attended were 

Deacon Palmer, pro at the Latrobc Country Club 
and father of Arnold Palmer, former Amateur 
Champion of the United States, and Qttie Coch­
rane, who at present is developer of young ball 
players, and official of various sports In this area. 
This about takes care of lliis particular event. 
Needless to say, cvcr\*one had a ver>' enjoyable 
time and Gene Coyne went home smiling and 
happy. 
Tlic Board of Governors and officers of the club 

recently met to confirm various dales and future 
events, and wc arc looking forward to a vcr>- full 
sexison from now until Universal Notre Dame 
Night. 
—GEORGE KINGSLEY, Sec\-. 

Rochester 
M'c have a lot of ground to cover this I'tmc. A big event last spring was tlic appearance o[ the University's Concert Band in tlic Auditorium. President ROBERT ODENBACH appointed as co-chairmen JACK NYE DUFFEY, CHARLES O'BRIEN and representing the Ladies Auxiliary Mrs. PETER J. CONNELLY. The alTiir ivas assured success by BILL BELL heading the Pa­trons Committee. A lot of hard work was done by JACK HEAGNEY heading up a large ticltet committee, LEO WESLEY handling publicity with JOHN BURKE and BILL OTOOLE, AL ROCHE and JIM GLEASOX the out-of-town and CHAR­LEY ZIMMER the Auditorium. Mrs. Connelly directed the Program aided by Mrs. CHiVRLES BRAGG, Mrs. CLARK WALLACE, Mrs. JOHN NOLAN and Mrs. LEE HASTINGS. Rosemary and DICK KLEE did a wonderfid job w*ith the recep­tion. The food was supplied by the ladies of the 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 
Auxiliarv. We also had help from Mr. and Mrs. RALPH MURPHY, whose son, John Murphy, played in the band and Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. MOORE, whose -daughter, Barbara, arranged for the usherettes from Nazareth College. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was obser\-cd at the Rochester Club with TOM HIGGINS, VIC DeSIMON, WILLIAM HEAGNEY and CO.VNIE SKIPWORTH handling the details. The ne»v of­ficers were installed with BOB ODENBACH turn­ing the gavel over to AL ROCHE. The new Vice-President is JIM GLEASON, JACK DUFFEY followed BOB SKIPWORTH as Secretary and LEO \VESLEY continued as treasurer. JI.M GLEA­SON, last year's Man-of-the-Year, made a very popular presentation of the 1955 Man-of-the-Year Ai.:ard to RICIL\RD T. SULLIV^W. JERRY FLY'NN, toastmasler par excellence, introduced REV. ALFRED MENDEZ, C.S.C., from the Campus, who gave us one of the best talks we ever had. 
DAVE DAVIN, new president of the Campus Club, arranged for a summer meeting with the incoming students. Tlic members did a good job of explaining campus background and customs and counselors were appointed for cadi of the nexv students. 
CHARLEY O'BRIEN called a dinner meeting of the Foundation committee at Locust Hill this summer. JOHN S. MacCAULEY from the cam­pus, reviewed the Foundation objectives for the year to contact as many alumni as possible. 
JOE CATTAL<\NI arranged for the Autumn Sports Dance at Brooklea Country Club. Tlicn due to the death of his father, MARTIN LALLY took over the chairmanship. 
Two members passed away this year: DONALD SCONFIETTI after a long illness and CIHRLES CROWLEY of Albion quite suddenly. 
EUGE.NE.MYLER married Sliirlcy VanBilHard this summer and moved to California for a year. We are pleased to have JOHN WHEELER back with us. 
Tlic Ladies' Airciliary held an election of officers at their September meeting. Mrs. PETER CON­NELLY turned the leadership over to Mrs. R:\Y­
MOND MEAD. Other new officers arc Vice-Presi­dent Mrs. CLARK J. WALLACE; Secretary Mrs. JOHN R. (DICK) KLEE; Corresponding Secre­tar>- Mrs. JOHN HEAGNEY and Treasurer Mrs. JOSEPH GERAGHTY. 
—JACK NYE DUFFEY, Secj-. 
1955 

Rock River Valley 
The club sponsored a football trip iIiis fall to^ the I^-SMU game. About 100 alumni and friends were in ilic party. Club president BOB Mc-DONNELL, JOE BITTORF, DON DEWEY and PAUL LONG helped to make arrangements for the trip. 
St. Joseph Valley 
The fourth Annual Monday Quarterback Lunch­eon Club had its first meeting at the Oliver Hotel on October 10, with TERRY BRENNAN as the principal speaker and 300 members in attendance. Other hcadliners for subsequent meetings are John Carmichael, Jack Brickhousc, *'Biggie" Munn, Con McColl, humorist from Conners\-ille, Pa., BERNIE CRIMMINS, Stu Holcomb, "MOOSE" KRAUSE and BILL FOX, High school coaches from South • Bend and Mbhawaka comprised the All-American ^­Board of Stratcs>% with a different coach appear­ing as a principal speaker at each session. 
PAUL FERGUS is doing a fine Job as chajnnan 
with help from PAUL NEVILLE, PAUL BOEHM, 
JOE DOYLE, VINCE DOYLE, JOE BOLAND 
and BOB HOLMES. 
—JERRY HICKEY, Secy. 

St. Louis 
The Notre Dame Club of St. Louis started off its year of activities with ilic annual picnic held on July 31, at Lcasure Lea in Chesterfield, Mo. Approximately 150 alumni and guests attended along with an equal number of children to enjoy a beautiful day in the country. Swimming and other organized contests filled the day's activities. . Tlie feature event of the day >vas the "holc-in-one" i". tourney. This e\*ent was won by our \ice-presidcnt.^' GENE FEHLIG, when he dropped his shot 15 inches from the cup. The picnic this year was handled by DAN SULLI\'^AN, chairman, along with his committee of TOM McQUIRE and WAR­RE.X HELLRUNG. 
Tlie monthly alumni luncheons are being held 
the second Tuesday of each month at various loca­
tions throughout the city so that each month 
alumni that work in these localities will find it 
convenient to attend without taking a great deal 
of time away from their work. 
On September 8 the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis gave its annual "Going to ND luncheon," in honor of the new freshmen entering ND and their fathers. Present students from the area were also invited as guests of the alumni. Approximately 100 people attended thts a/Tair. Features of the luncheon were short talks with words of advice i from our present man of the year FRED Mc-NEILL, the president of the St. Louis Club of Notre Dame, Al Vitt and from the chaplain of the club on campus, FATHER BOARALIN, 
C.S.C. Arrangements for this luncheon were handled by HENRY PAYNE with his committee of BOB TORRANCE and BOB HELLRUNG. 
At the present time JOHN HUCKSTEP and his committee of GENE FEHLIG and BILL TOBIN arc gathering information on all local alumni for the new roster which should be ready for publication early in November. 
Our football trip for this year was the Navy game. GEORGE CON\'\', JOE GOLOBOWSKI and JACK GRIFFIN worked hard to promote this trip for the benefit of our scholarship program. 
—JOHN F. HIGGINS, JR., Sec>-.-Trcas. 

Salina 
New officers of the club include R. A. Mc-AULIFFE, '3B, president, and ALBERT J. SCHWARTZ, '37, secretary. 
San Antonio 
The club*s annual picnic was held September 9 in the German Beer Garden, Lone Star Brewery, and a great time was had by alumni and guests. 
Son Diego 
The Notre Dame Club of San Diego completed one of its most active summer programs on Sept. 25 with a picnic at Lindo Lake Park in nearby _ Lakeside. The picnic climaxed a schedule which -^ included a Communion breakfast, a beach party and a retreat. 
San Diego alumni and their families opened the 
summer activities on June 19 by attending Mass ia a group at the Mission San Diego de Alcala, the senior link in California's chain of missions. 
.'V/Vcry Rev. James T. Booth, chancellor of the diocese of San Diego, celebrated the Mass. A patio breakfast for 32 followed at the home of Mr. and .\frs. HARRV E. AfOXAHAN, JR., '50. 
The Communion breakfast gave the club a chance for a quick business meeting at ^%'hich time it was decided the club would not handle sale of tickets to the Notre Damc-Soulhcrn California football game in November. Thanks to Ticket ^fa^ager BOB C^VHILL, a substitute plan was ar­ranged so San Diego alumni and their friends could make direct application to the University for tickets. 
Mtcr nearly crashing head-on into a municipal celebration, the club executed a dignified retreat to more secluded shores and held a successful beach party on July 24. PHILIP P. MARTIN, JR., '45, directed plans for the party assisted by JOHN 
I SULLIV.VN, '48. and BILL V/\NGEN, '49. .\bout ' 30 adults and small fry attended the Lajolla Shores event. 
A small group attended one of the regular summer retreats at Immaculate Heart Seminary in El Cajon on Aug. 12-14. Arrangements were made by R. JERRY McaVRTY, '45. 
WALT GEUDTNER, *50, did an encore as chairman of the club's annual picnic and handled the details of the September event at Lakeside. 
Early in the summer Secretary H.ARRY MONA­HAN prepared a new club directory. Final com­pilation showed 60 Notre Dame alumni registered in the San Diego area. 
From a questionnaire returned by 39 alumni, the club conjured up the average Notre Dame alumnus in San Diego county: He is a 1946 gradu­ate, married, father of two children and works 
t.^ for the Convair division of General Dynamics. (The '' i directory* lists 13 Convair employees as the larg­est career group.) 
Old grads in San Diego bad a chance to get caught up on campus doings this summer as several of the seven San Diego county boys now attending Notre Dame—which probably is some sort of record for this Southwest corner of the 
U. S.—participated in the club's summer activities. 
—HARRY .MONARVN, Secj-. 

Sandusky 
The Notre Dame Club of the \-acationIand area held a country picnic on the C. J. Ruffing farm, Norwalk, Ohio, on Sunday, July 24. Thirty families representing Sandusky, Oak Harbor, Port Clinton, Fremont, Belle%-uc, Clyde, and Nor^valk attended. ActiWties of the afternoon featured a Softball game between the alumni and their sons, and a badminton contest for the wives and daugh­ters. Numerous games and contests were also conducted for the children. The festivities ended with food and refreshments. 
Schenectady 
Our big event this fall was the student sendoff party held September 10 at the Edison Club. Each year for the past five the alumnt club has staged this affair to enable new students to meet the alumnt. An exceptionally fine buffet supper preceded talks by FATHER HEINZER, C.S.C., club chaplain, and by DR. PHILLIPS» club presi­dent. BILL LEONARD 5er\'cd as chairman and toastmaster. About 15 new students from this area are starting their first year at the University. 
A new C.S.C. priest has become a member of our club. FATHER LAMBOUR was recently transferred here by the community to assist at St. Madeleine Sophies Parish. 
The club is planning the annual Communion Breakfast for December. —TOM HOWLEY, Publicity Chairman 
Southern Cook County 
The Notre Dame Alumni Chib of Southern Cook Count>% Illinou, has recently been organized and the officers are as XoJJows: president, JOHN 
G. ZARANTE, '48; vice-president, WLLIA.M E. MARTIN, '49; secretary, WILLIAM F. KELLY, JR., '32; treasurer, DONALD R. GRANT, '42; board of directors, DR. FRANCIS J. .\RMBRUS­
TER, '30, and HARMON N. SPINA, '43. 
Southwest. Connecticut 
The club recently passed a resolution and pre­sented a copy of it to the Bishop of Bridgeport for his constructive action in the building of new Catholic schools in this diocese. 
Some of the members attended the slate-wide alumni meeting held September 19 which featured FATHER JOYCE as principal speaker. 
DICK SCANNELL, *38, club secretary, has moved to IVhite Plains, N. Y., to form a new Lincoln-Mercury dealership. His position as club secretary has been filled by FRANCIS KOWAL­SKI, 
—VINCENT A. GORMAN, ^LD., Pres. 

South Jersey 
The club held a beach party on July 27 for alumni and families at Shipbottom-by-the-Sea. Regular monthly meetings have been held at Kenney's Restaurant in Camden. 
Tri-Cities 
The Notre Dame xVlumni Club of the Tri-Cities held their annual Family - Picnic at the Spring-brook Country Club, Dewitt, Iowa, on Saturday, June 25. JOHN BRAET, '50, was chairman for the picnic, >which was attended by approximately 40 Notre Damers and their families. 
The club's annual Fish Fry was held at Little's Grove, Davenport, Iowa, on Friday, August 19, and was attended by 150 persons. GEORGE VANDER VENNETT was chairman of this event. The two Notre Dame-Iowa football tickets which were raffled at the Fish Fry were won by JACK BUSH, '52. 
The Notre Dame wives held a dance on October 21 at the Saddle Club Barn, Mt. Joy, Iowa. Mrs. WALTER "DRA Y was chairman of the dance. 
—R. A. BUSH, Secy. 

Tucson 
The club was recently rc-organizcd and to date we have 29 members. New officers are: president, KENNETH J. BAYLY; vice-president, FRANK BROPHY; secretary, TI.MOTHY KCJG; and treasurer, ELMER BESTEN. Our program is scheduled for a meeting every other month and 
TERRE HAUTE — New officers are, L to R (seated): Raymond J. Kearns, pres.; Peter Varda, v-p; Rev. Thomas J. Culhane, chaplain; Richard W. Kelly, secy.; and Charles W. Metzger, treas. Standing (L to R): Board members are John Boyer, Jacob J. Parker, Louis F. Keifer, Sr., and Fred Christman. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 31 
Jim Crowley, a member of the "Four Horsemen" backfield, was principal speaker at the Holy Name dinner in Sidney, N. Y. Left to right: Joe Knapp, '33, Crowley, Father Kelly, and Mayor Mirabito of Sidney. 
ihe major project will be to send a boy from Satpointc High School to the Univcrsitj-. —KENNETH BAYLY, Secy. 
Washington, D. C. 
The Club held a regular membership meeting on Tuesday, June 7, at the Sheraton-CarUon Hotel. Signiiicant business of the evening was a presenta­tion by the president, HOWARD J. SCHELLEN­BERG, JR., of the proposed program for 1955­1956. Through the courtesy of BILL GIBSON, local distributor for Miller High Life beer, and BILL McGLOON, area representative for the brew­ery, the membership enjoyed films of the 1954 Pro Football championship game. 
Tlic Annua] Retreat at Holy Cross College from 

June 10th through June 12th was enjoyed by 
those able to attend. JOHN T. CASEY acted 
as chairman, and his committeemen were M. F. 
BAG.\N. RICHARD M. COLASURD, TOM 
FLYNN, WALT GREER, CHARLES HELLMUTH 
and LARRY MOORE. 
Monday, July 25, found many club members and 

guests cnjo>'ing the Annual Golf Outing at Ken­
wood Country- Club. The I9th hole was enjoyed 
by all before being seated for dinner. The club 
felt particularly honored by haWng the Honorable 
PAUL M. BUTLER, Notre Dame Alumnus and 
Chairman of the Democratic National Cominittce, 
act as toastmastcr and guest speaker. Incidentally, 
Mr. Butler has not missed a Notre Dame home 
game for 37 years. Another interesting fact that 
he mentioned that evening was his encouragement 
to tlie University officials to permit political clubs 
on the campus to the end that the principles of 
Christian leadership should have a place in the 
field of politics. Chairman of the golf outing. 
DR. NLATT SULLIVAN, presented trophies and 
other prizes to the following: 
HAL RODDY, first low gross;U'ALT MURPHY, second low gross; DR. JIM CORCORAN, first low net J VAL DEALE, second low net; DR. GEORGE GREENE, longest drive; HOWARD J. SCHELLENBERG, JR., second longest drive; MIGGS REILLY (Catholic University- basketball coach), third longest drive; DR. • GEORGE GREENE, closest to hole; DON KENNEDY, sec­ond closest to hole; BOB D*ORSEY, most fours; NEIL O'BRYAN, most sevens. Among those win­ning door prizes were: TIGHE WOODS, SAM BORZILLERI, PAUL 0*BRYAN (NeiPs dad), BILL STURBITTS, CLIFF LETCHER. 
Many of these prizes were of the liquid \-ariety and were donated by BILL GIBSON, BILL Mc­GLOON and ED FENLON. Assisting MATT SULLI\'AN in arrangements for the successful outing were: NORM DUKE, JOE FITZMAUR­ICE, BILL KLIMA, JACK LETHBRIDGE, BER­
NIE LIENHARD, NEIL 0*BRYAN. 
August 28 was the date of the Annual Family 
Picnic It ^\-as • held at Fort Hunt picnic area 
just south of Alexandria, Va., and was attended 
by approximately 200 people. Pony rides and 
games, supervised by JIM CURRAN, were the 
biggest attractions for the children. Other com­
mitteemen assisting Chairman BILL HOPKE 
were JODI STAVINOHA, DON STOCKING and 
JOHN BRADDOCK. The softball teams for the 
day were captained by ED FENLON and PAUL 
TULLY. Tlic club president's father, Howard J. 
Schellenberg, Sr.^ was the recipient of a rafile 
prize donated by Ken Hanlon. The highlight of 
the day was towards the close of the picnic ^vhen 
Jim Curran lost his car keys but was not seriously 
inconvenienced since FATHER NEFF, Club Chap-
Iain, was able to cross the ivlres, enabling Jim 
to drive. 
On September 13 the dub Joined the Advertising Club of Washington in a "Welcome Home Lunch-con" for the Redskins football team. Notre Dame, of course. Is well represented in the Redskins bv coadi JOE KUHARICH, RALPH GUGLIELMI, CHET OSTROWSKI and MIKE DA\'LIN. /Vmong local club members attending were HOW­ARD J. SCHELLENBERG, JR., BILL Mc­GLOON, SAM BORZILLERI, GAYLORD P. HAAS, GEORGE HOWARD, DON KENNEDY, KE.V HANLON, COL. McNALLY and JAMES P. 0*LAUGHLIN. 
v\t a general membership meeting ot the Club on September 15 plans for the events of the coming year were reviewed by the president. This first Fall meeting was most interesting and attended by well over lOO members. 
The Board of Governors meeting, presided over by Chairman VAL DEALE, was held on September 21 at which time club policies, etc, were re­viewed by club officers and other members of the board. 
The club once again sponsored a special train trip to Philadelphia for the Notre Dame-Pcnnsyl­\-ania game on November 5. Bill McGloon was cliairman of the trip, and his committee included JIM CASEY, DAN DUGGAN, DON FIDLER, CHARLES HELLMUTH, FRANCES KEENAN, CHARLES KREBS and JACK McGRATH. 
WHY NOT JOIN OTHER CLUB MEMBERS FOR LUNCH EACH TUESDAY AT 12:30 P.M. .AT THE TOUCHDOWN CLUB, 1414 EYE STREET, N.W.? 
—JAMES P. O'LAUGHLIN, Scc>-. 

West Yirginio 
Tlic Notre Dame Club of West Virginia held its annual family picnic at Timberlakc on August 251*'" Tiie arrangements were under the direction of 
president VINCE REISHMAN and MICHAEL 0*CONNOR. Games for young and old were su-^, .per\ised by GENE RYAN, -J 
—CORNELIUS T. DESMOND 

Western Washington 
The Notre Dame Club of Western Washington held its first fall smoker on October 18. BERT HALL ser\'ed as chairman of the aH'air. Plans are already under way for the annual Communion Mass and Breakfast in December. Some of the alumni met recently at breakfast with PAUL BUTLER, '27, national Democratic chairman, when he visited Seattle. 
—BERNARD J. LENOUE, Sec>-. 

Youngstown 
Fifty men attended a golf outing at the Trum­bull Countr>' Club, IVarrcn, Ohio, on August 18. The group was a ver>' representative one, com­posed of alumni, students, fathers of students and a few guests. LOU COLLERAN, LEE GARVEY, and JOE DRAY saw to all arrangements and did an excellent job. FRANK GUARNIERI, a stu­dent from Warren, helped with the chores. HAR­OLD VAS HUFFEL, also from Warren, was most helpful in securing the use of the Country Club for us. This was the first golf party in several years and really one of our high spots in the year's activity-. 
TTie club had a "small" gathering of students 
and alumni before the boys left for school. This 
affair needs more support and emphasis. 
BILL LYDEN, JR., promoted an excursion to / . the Miami game the week of October 3, Round ^ trip by air, several nights in a Miami Beach Hotel, add the game were all included in the package. The Athletic Department was very co­operative in this venture. 
Monthly dinner meetings were resumed on Oc­tober 20 at the Colonial House in Youngstown. Flans are being made to have this meeting held in ^Varren in alternate months. 
FRANK MASTRIANA was quite ill with a heart ailment earlier this spring, but is now on his feet again. 
BILL LYDEN, JR., and his wife. Donna, iavc added another "fullback" to their training table. 
Our deepest sympathy is extended to CHARLIE BUTLER whose father passed away in Cliicago re­cently. 
—GRIFF ALLEN, Pres. f 
[liiiii"">ouio """iiilllllll 
mt licked ud/., 
MARCH OF 
JanaarijSto 3f 

32 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 
 —ff-irr 
REV. WILLL\M CUNNINGRAM, CS.C, '07, on the death of his brother. 
REV. MICHAEL MATHIS, CS.C, '10, on the 

mm :0^&Sii^^ [•{(•>•" 
.-,.,-r-~,.-. „ ,.,-.. 
Sympathy 

death of his brother-in-law. REV. JOSEPH HART. CS.C , '24. on the death 
Engagements 
Miss Barbara Ann CliMnv and VINCENT A. JACOBS, '46. Miss Natalie Ann Conncrs and F. GERARD PERRINE. '31. Miss Jcannine Wagner and RICHARD M. ROGERS, JR., '33. Miss Dorothy Elizabeth Broivn and JOHN J. BUNDSCHUH, JR., '54. Mbs Martha Ann Rvan and RICHARD A. BYRNES, '54. Miss Eleanor Caterson Flynn and JOSEPH A. GALLAGHER, JR., '54. Miss Antonia M. Schildgc and ENS. CHRISTO­PHER E. MALONE, JR., '34. Miss Nancj' Jane Jennings and JOSEPH T. GORMLEY, JR., '35. Miss Mary Browne Dooley and JOHN W. HOUCK, '55. 
Marriages 
Miss Ada Florence FitzpatritJc and WARD Mc-CARRON, '25, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., October 2, 1954. 

Miss Anne Farrclly Wick and PAUL R. LOCH­ER, '38, Spring Lake, N. J., September 15. Miss Diane Clendening Crominelin and THOMAS ^ H. MILLER, '39, Washington, D. C , .May 14. >. Miss Barbara L. Landis and FRANK R. FOX, '42, Fort Wayne, Ind., May 21. Miss Alice Catherine Sheehan and JOHN C. DILLON, '47, Floral Park, N. Y., August 13. Miss Teresa Rose DeRubeis and DR. THOMAS 
J. KLUCKA, '49, River Rouge, Mich., June 18. .Miss Ruth Ellen Borror and JOHN P. IVALKER, '49, Elgin, 111., July 9. Miss Eileen Jane Tcppcr and KENNETH H. 
WELCH, '49, South Orange, N. J., May 31. Miss Patricia Anne McGowan and KENNETH 

J. BAYLY, '50, Tucson, Ariz., May 28. Miss Ruth Leali Armour and ELLIOTT L. KAMEN, '50. -Miss Ann O'Brien and JOHN K. REDMOND. '50, Rodicster, N. Y., September 10. Miss Joan E. Hoar and HENRY' H. KETTERER. '30, Notre Dame, Ind., Aug. 29. Miss Katliarine Bartcmeier and THO.MAS J. > RONEY, '30, Detroit, Mich., May 21. .Miss Julie Anne Tech and JAMES A. CARRIG, '51, Erie, Pa., September 10. Miss Mary Coleman Dillon and ROBERT ED­MONDS0»\, '51, Ne>v York, N. Y., June II. .Miss Bctte Jo Miller and CARL EIFERT, '51. Mil\%-aukee, Wis., April, 1955. Miss Janet Ann Kruckebcrg and JOHN A. O'BRIEN, JR., '51, Birmingham, Ala., May 28. Miss Frances F. Duffy and WILLIAM P. 0'HEi\RN, JR., "51, Cleveland. Ohio. August 13. Miss Peggy Ann Blank and LT. WILLLWI J. STELPFLUG, '51, Chaumont, France, July 30. Miss Betty Ann Hurstci and JOSEPH F. GAR­GAN, *52, Notre Dame, Ind., September 17. 
.Miss Asccncion Garcia and DONALD M.\HER, '52, Wilmington, Del., June II. 

• Miss Greta Claire Von Wyk and JOHN F. 
/ ME.\NEY, '52, Santa Maria, Calif., June 18. Miss Joan Schreiner and LT. (J.G.) ROBERT 
J. PIHA, '52, Chicago, III., September 17. Miss Paula Dianne Roche and LT. (J.G.) CH<UILES R. \S'R\Y, '32, Belmont, -Mass., July 16. Miss Isabel Tlierese Dempsey and GEARY T. BECKER, '53, Nc^v Kochcllc, N. Y., June II. Miss Carmen Judith Alvarez and j\NTONIO DO.MINGUEZ, JR., '53, David, Republic of Panama, October 16. .Miss Joan Lee Casscll and JAMES F. GALLJV­GHER, JR., '53, Chicago, 111., May 21. .Miss .Martha Ann Ryan and RICHARD A. BYRNES, '54, Flushing, N. Y., September 17. .Miss Patricia McCall and JOSEPH DiPINTO, '54, Martinsville, Va., September 13. Miss Mary Jane Flemming and JOSEPH L. > GOEBEL, '34,- Chicago Hgts., III., June 23. 
Miss Janet Mac Larscn and JAMES A. HER­NON, JR., '54, Forest Hills, N. Y., August 6. 
Miss Jeanette Dolores Filipich and ALVTTHEW 
F. KULUZ, '54, Biloxi. Miss.. June II. Miss Audrey Pearl Driscoll and JOSEPH F. .MOR,\N, JR., '54, Taunton, Mass., June 18. -Miss Jo Beth Whimpey and THOMAS M. CO­
ZAD, '55, Molinc, III., June 25. Miss Virginia Ann Byrne and LT. RICHARD 
H. TIERNEY, USMC, '34, Deal, N. J., October 1. Miss Rita Agnes Kcllett and STEPHEN J. PRE­VOZXIK, '53, Jlilford, Mass., August 20. 
Miss Mary Frances Hcichcl and DAVID P. DISCHER, '35, Moline, 111., June 18. 
Births 

.Mr. and Mrs. CLAYTON LEROUX, '27, a daughter, Joan Michaelle, June 5. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM O'NEILL, '28, a son, Timothy. Mr. and Mrs. RALPH F. ELSE, '35, a daughter, Rosemary Kathleen, July 3. Mr. and Mrs. BURNETT 0. BAUER, '38, a daughter. Mary Frances, May 25. Mr. and Mrs. FRANK P. COSGROVE, '38. a son, Terrance Patrick, August 3. Mr. and .Mrs. JOHN C. GALLAGHER, '39, a daughter. Sheila Catherine, Jun& 13. Jfr. and -Mrs. WALTER J. GEREND, '39, a daughter, Carol Ann, June 20. Mr. and Mrs. ALFRED O. KEIFER, '39, a daughter, Pamela Jean, May 28. Mr. and Mrs. DAVID B. MONCRIEF, '41, a son, Jesse David, September 6. Mr. and Mrs. GERALD PAVEGLIO, '41, a daughter, Afary Anne^ July 26. Mr. and Mrs. WAYNE D. ZELLER, '43, a son, Michael Wayne, August 12. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD A'HEARN, '44, a son, September 12. .Mr. and Mrs. JOHN DERRICK, '44, a son, September 9. Dr. and Mrs. JOHN J. MARTIN, '44. a son, Stephen Joseph, June 20. Dr. and Mrs. JACK McS\VEENEY, '44, a son, June 20. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT L. MILFORD, '44, a daughter, Lucia Marie, June 26. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN E. COSGROVE, '46, a daughter, Eileen Mary, October 1. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD C. CARLSON, '47, a daughter, Moira Elizabeth, August 16. .Mr. and -Mrs. ARTHUR M. DIAMOND. '47, a son, Dasid Andrew, March 30. Mr. and .Mrs. GORDON L. FORESTER, '47, a daughter. Holly Ann, August 20. .Mr. and Mrs. JAMES E. MURPHY, '47, a son, Peter Francis, July 12. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN A. PEARL, '47, a son, William Edu-ard, July 26. Lt. and Mrs. VERN HUBKA, '48, a daughter, Chcri Lee. August 4. Mr. and Mrs. A. J. MARINO, '48, a daughter, Laura Marie, August 5. Mr. and Mrs, RICHARD E. O'CONTifELL, JR., '48, a son, Thomas Patrick, May 16. .Mr. and Mrs. DO.MINICK C. PALER.MINI. '48. a son. James Patrick, June 17. -Mr. and Mrs. JAMES P. PATTERSON, '48, a daughter, Mary Catherine. Mav 4. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. TUITE, '48. a son, Francis John, May 14. Mr. and .Mrs. PATRICK J. CONKLIN, '49, a son, Daniel Thomas, July 20. Mr. and Mrs. PETER J. KERNAN, JR., '49, a son. Christopher John. July 6. Mr. and Mrs. RALPH HOLMES, '50, a son, William Scott, June 3. Mr. and .Mrs. JOHN E. McHALE. JR., '30, a son, John Edward, May 25. .Mr. and -Mrs. CHARLES O'BRIEN, '50, a son, Terence. September 27. Mr. and Mrs. JEROME TERHAAR, '50, a son, Edward James, July 16. Lt. and Mrs. WILLU.M N. HOGAN, JR., '51, a son, September 2. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. SCHICKEL, '52, a son, Paul Joseph, June 24. Lt. and Mrs. ALFRED C. DeCRANE. '53. a son, Da%id Scott, September 8. ­
of his brother. 
REV. RICHARD PATRICK, CS.C, '31, on the 

death of his father. 
REV. JOHN MAREK, CS.C, '36. on the death 

of his mother. 
REV. JOHN VAN WOLVLEAR, CS.C, '45, on 

the death of his grandmother. 
NORBERT ENGELS, '26, professor of English 

at Notre Dame, on the death of his mother. 
ALVIN S. CULVER, '32, on the death of his. 

father, Northwestern's first full-time football coach, 
Julv 17. 
W. LAWRENCE SE.\TON, '33, on the death of his mother, July 18. 
DR. KENNETH • L.\WS, '36, on the death of 

his mother June 23, one month after the death 
of his father. 
D.ANIEL F. SALLOWS, JR., '40, on the death 

of his three-year-old son, Daniel Francis III, 
July 26. 
WILLIAM HEALY, '44, on the death of his mother. WILLIAM KLEE, '31, on the death of hii mother Jtme 24. ROBERT .M. KENNEY, '52, on the death of his mother .August 21. 
Obituary 
REV. GEORGE MARR, CS.C . '01, died Sep­

tember 10 in St. Joseph Hospital, South Bend. 
Father Marr entered the Congregation of Holy 
Cross in 1895 and was ordained in 1906. He re­
ceived a doctorate In sacred - theology from Laval 
University, Quebec A classics scliolar. Father at 
one time headed the Department of Religion at 
Xotre Dame. He retired in 1948. 
REV. ANDREW I. SCHREYER, CS.C.^ '14, 

died August 13 while \*acationing ia New Orleans. 
A former Notre Dame faculty member, ho wa» 
stationed at the Sacred Heart Novitiate in Jordan, 
Minn., at the time of his death. Father Schreyer 
\%'as ordained in 1919 and received his master's de­
gree in Latin in 1923. He served as teacher and 
chaplain at several other Holy Cross institutions. 
ALBERT PICK, *85, founder of the Pick hotel 

chain, died July 8. He attended Notre Dame i» 
1881-82. 
HARRY A. RASCHE, '96, of Uniontown, Pa., 

died June 10. 
THOXL\S D. BURNS, JR.. '97, died July 13 la Denver after a long JIIDCSS. He was 76, Mr. Burns first came to Notre Dame in 1887 as a minim; he later attended the University of Michi­gan School of Law. Originally from NCAV Mexico, he and hl^ wife moved to Denver only last year. He w'as a retired rancher and merchant and a stockholder in the Bums National Bank of Durango. 
RICARDO TREVINO, '05, who would have cele­brated bis golden anniversary as an alumnus this past June, died April 25. His 50-year medal has been fonvarded to his widow, who writes that she will cherish it as "a precious token of faun and a tender link between him and the old school he so loved and had planned to visit." Mr. Trevino, an electrical engineering graduate, was a prominent figure in the municipal electrical field in Mexico. 
JAMES V. CUNNINGRAM, SR-, '07, of Chicago, died August 10. He was a lawj-er and a former assistant state's attorney. 
DR. HIRAM G. McCARTY. '09, died July H at Cleveland's St. Alexis Hospital, where he had been a member of the staff for a quarter century. A distinguished physician and Catholic layman, he studied medicine at St. Louis University after ob­taining his bachelor of science and doctor of philos­ophy degrees at Notre Dame. For 15 years he taught chemblry and surgical practices to nurses at St. Alexis and was a 30-ycar member of the Cleveland Academy of Science. He was also a di­rector of St. Mary's Orphanage for 10 years. 
JAMES W. FOLEY,SR., *16, died unexpectedly in his Chicago, III., home on October 19,, For tional Display News Association an'd edited their many years Jim Foley was secretary of the Na-trade magazine writing most of the articles him­self. He was a star player on the Notre Dame varsity baseball team in 1910, beating out Coimie 

Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December^ 2955 33 
Mack's son for the leam. Mr. Foley was hit in the hip by a pitched ball during the season and became paralj-zcd. He suffered from the effects for the next 46 years and u-as confined to his home for the past 16 years. His \%Tfe, Marie Rcyniers Fo!c>-, forxQcrly of Mishau'aka, Ind., died t^**o years ago. ^f^. Foley was one of the original St. Joe Hall occupants, ha\*ing entered Notre Dame in the fall of 1909. He h survived by his son, James AV., Jr., and tlirce daughters, Eleanor, .Aiitoinettc and Mary Jo. A funeral Mass was held at St. Ed­ward's Church in Chicago and burial u"as in Mishau-aka, Ind. 
BURT L. ROBERTS, '16, of Little Rock, died Fd>ruary 6. He had been instrumental in organiz­ing Xotre Dome alumni m Arkansas. 
DEL^UR J. EDMO.VDSOX, '18, of Los Angeles, died there May 29. He received his niaster*s degree from the University- in 1921. 
VICnrOR S. MERSCH, 'I9, clcrk of the United States Tax Court, died September 15. After two years at Notre Dame, he •went on to Georgetown University; in 1929 lie received his master of laws degree from George \Vashington University. Mr. ifersch u-as formerly register of wills for the Dis­trict of Coliunbia and a member of the Georgetown law facult>-. 
HARRY A. RICHWLNE, *20, South Bend Iaw>cr, died June 23 after a sudden illness. Air. RIcIiwinc received his LL.M. degree from Notre Dame in 1922. He was active in the Elks and in the Amer­ican Legion. 
D. AVORTH CU\RK, '22, former U. S. senator from Idaho, died suddenly June 19 in Los Angeles. He was 53. s\. Democrat, Air.- Clark was an Idalio representative In Congress from 1934 and senator from 1938 to 1944. 
JAMES R. DOOLEY, *22, of North Andover, Mass., died Jime 9. He played first-string tackle for the Irish under Rockne in 1919-21, during which lime the team won 28 games and lost only one. Mr. Dooley practiced law in South Bend from 1923 to 1929, then returned to North Andover and oprrated a coal concern. 
DANIEL HULL, '22, former head of the Notre Dame Department of Ph\'sics, died recently. Bom in 1860, Professor Hull came to the University- In 1921, received a master of science degree in 1922 and remained on the faculty until 1935. During World War II, at the age of 82, he came out of retirement to teach mathematics to Air Force cadets at Notre Dame. 
MICH.\EL F. SEYFRIT, *23, prominent attorney in Carlinville, 111., was killed instantly Sept. 1 in an auto accident near Bloomington, HI. The car in which he \vas riding \*'as struck head-on by one driven in the wrong lane by an inebriate. Ironic­ally, Mike Scyfrit v**as a former director of the Illinois Department of Public Safety- and had cam­paigned vigorously against drunken drivers. He sen-ed overseas in World War II with tite Red Cross and was also active in the state government and the Democratic party. 
CHARLES F. SOLLO, '25, died recently. He v^-as a Iaw>-cr from Mollnc, 111. 
MICHAEL A. NEEDHAM, *26, died June 13 of a heart attack In Slnton, Tex. He had been an auto dealer and citj- commissioner In Corpus Christ!, had served on the Sinton Cit>' Council and at the time of his death' held an auto dealership in Slnton. 
.\NTHONY J. M.-VUCIERI, '29, died Feb. 26. A legal counselor in New York City, he had attended Notre Dame from 1925 to 1927. 
JOSEPH J. GAVIN, *3I, was tragically killed on May 31 In Da>ton, Ohio. Joe was conducting a business transaction in one of the city's banks when 
an armed bandit entered and shot him and another 
b>-standcr. Joe died instantly. For a number of years Joe Gavin was head football coacli at the University of Dayton. ^STiile a student at Notre Dame, he was captain of the basketball team and a mcnJ>er of the i-arsitj- football squad. 
CHARLES SCH.MIED, '31, of Columbus, Wis., died May 11. 
JOHN C. COLE, '32, died July 3. He ^^•as man­ager of the Cole Brothers department store In Parsons^ Kansas. 
ROBERT J. BYRNE, '33, for many years a civilian field engineer at Fort George G. Meade, Sfd., died recently. 
CYRIL P. ENTRUP, '33, of Shaker Heights, Ohio, was killed Aug. 10 in an automobile accident. 
LT. GEORGE W. DeSMET, '33 

^VILLIAM J. MARTERSTECK, '33, was acci­dentally killed July 23 In Ho]I>-wood, Fla. He v*as electrocuted while using an electric edgcr. Mr. Martcrsteck served overseas during World War 11 as a Naval Reserve officer. 
JOHN GRAHAM DOUXING, *M, was killed June 17 in the crash of a Brazilian airliner in Para­guay. A veteran newspaperman, he v**as *'Timc" magazine's bureau chief in Buenos Aires. As a war correspondent he had covered the Asian fronts for Tlie Chicago Sun from 19AI to IW8. He io'tned "Time" In 1950 and managed its Singapore bureau before being transferred to South America. He was the son of actor Eddie Dowling. 
HOMER E. STRICKLER, '36, editor of "Flag­ship News,** an American Airlines publication, and formerly assistant city editor of the New York Sun, died of cancer in Frceport, N. Y., September 26 after a long illness. During World War II he was a war correspondent for tlie Sun In Europe, • where lie covered the Nuremberg trials after the wrar. He was a brother of George Stricklcr, assist­ant sports editor of the Chicago Tribune. 
C. DON/U.D SCONFIETTI, *37, an accountant in Roclicster, N. Y., died May 24. 
\\TLLIAM R. CROUXEY, *41, of Beaumont, Tex., died July 16 of electrical shock from an elec­tric saw while working on his new* home. He was a stevedoring and steamship agent for the P. C. Pfciffcr Co., Inc., and an active member of the Knights of Columbus. 
The remains of CURTIS J. KIESLING, *49, were returned to Chicago July 20 for a military funeral. As reported In an earlier ALUMNUS, Afarinc Corporal Kiesling was killed In action Nov. 28, 1950, in North Korea while on a volunteer mission, for which he was posthumously at^arded the Silver Star and the Purple Heart. 
a\PT . THOMAS DAEMS, class of 1950, a stu­dent at Notre Dame in 1946-47, was killed In the crash of his jet plane at a gunnery show at Nellas Field, Las Vegas, September 30. Funeral services were held in his home town, Bozeman, ^font., and burial was In Arlington Cemeter>* on October 10. Word \*-as received from RICHARD NASH, '23, whose son. Jack, was Tom's room­mate at Notre Dame. 
D.WID F. KENNEDY, '52, was killed in a jet plane crash near Las Vegas July 18. Entering the .Air Farce after his graduation, Dave, a native of Minneapolis, served in Korea and in Okinawa. He had been a flight leader, adjutant and gunnery instructor at Nellis A.F.B. In Nevada follov«ing his overseas duty. His F-86 Sabrejet crashed on Timber ^fountain after makltig a firing pass at a gunnery-range. 
GEORGE W. DESMET, '53, v%-as killed June 5 In the crssh of a slngle*englne attack bomber from El Toro Marine Base. He was pilot of tlic plane, re­turning from a routine cross-countr>- instrument and training flight when the accident occurred. He was 
the son of Louis DeSmct, '23. 
FOSTER PAKCARD, '54, a Navy diver, was > 
accidentally killed In July. ^ 
Two Notre Dame undergraduates, PHILIP L. VEESART of Chicago and CHESTER A. ^VYNNE, JR., of Oak Park, III. (son of Irish grid star Chct Wynne, '22), were killed In an airplane crash at Chicago's ^Iidway Airport July 17. 
HOMER Q. E/\RL, South Bend attorney and associate professor of law at Notre Dame from 1929 to 1942, died June 23 after a sudden Illness. He had for many years been prominent In Repub­lican politics in the South Bend area. 
Before 1900 
In a letter to REV. CHARLES .M. a\REY, C.S.C., prefect of religion at Notre Dame, comes this reminiscence from a student who scaled the 1 heights at the University to make a permanent ~ '^ name for himself. Writes C. S. MITCHELL, *94, of La Ward, Tex., about an Incident that took place in September, 1892: 
". . . Some six or seven of us students ran a race to see who could reach the top of tlie steeple (then under construction) before It was closed in. I won, and one FR^VNK BOLTON handed me a soft black pencil, and I marked our names, and date, on a smooth timber—200 feet up. Mine leading, of course, w I could claim the honor, and truthfully so, that my name C. S. MITCH­ELL, stood higher at Notre Dame than any other man v.ho ever went there, not excepting the founders themselves. I guess the record still stands. .Ahem!" 
1905 
REUNION REGISTRxVNTS 

E. F. GRUBER, CHARLES R. HEMP, \ilL-LU M D. JAMIESON, D.\NIEL L. MURPHY. COL. ERNEST K. SHEBLE AND DR. L. P. 
V/\N RIE. 

Too late for the Julv ALUMNUS was this note from DANIEL L. MURPHY, Peoria, HI.: 
*'Dear Mr. Armstrong: 
"The medal commemorating our 50th Reunion was duly received. . . . 
"I'm^ glad I can say I regard it not merely attractive and Impressively complete in every de­tail of design, but as well a gracious, dignified token with whicli the University through the x\sso­ciation so becomingly marks the occasion. ' 
"I assure you and, through you, all who are 
in any way responsible that it will alu-ays he , 
treasured for all that it s\-mbolizes. As an aside r . I might add an appreciative daughter has already . asked that I make it a specific item In ray i will. . . .** 
CHARLES T. McDER.MOTT writes from his home at 431 S. Pine St. in Santa Maria, Calif.: 
"Dear Mr. Armstrong: 
"I Want to thank you for die very fine class pin of '05 you sent me. I shall always treasure it. 
"I was very sorr^* I could not get back for the reunion but it v^-as impossible; however, I think I vrill be able to get back to Notre Dame some time tills fall to take In a fev*' football games, . . ." 
An operation kept GEORGE .\L ALAYPOLE of Lake Villa, III., from attending the reunion, much to his regret, reports his vrifc. Ife will be convalescing for some time, she adds, "and a prayer vrill help." 
LOUIS J. SALMON of Neversink Rd., Liberty. ^ 
N. Y., writes: "Dear "Jim: "The medal arrived and it Is really beautiful 
and I like having it very much. , . . 
"I would like very much to see Notre Dame again and a visit with old classmates would be like a tonic However, I will not be able to make the reunion.** 
Notre Dame AlumnuSy November-December^ 1955 
NORTH FLORIDA—^Alumni club members greet former ND players now with Chicago Bears. The Bears met the Chi Cardinals in an exhi­bition game in Jacksonville. Left to right: Al Kessing, '39; Charles Mouch, '49; John Hclwig, '31 (Bears lineman); Bill Kirchner, '31; Geo. Connor, '47 (Bears lineman); Bill Wightkin, '49 (Bears end); and Bob Williams, '31 (Bears quarterback). 
1907 
REUNION REGISTR,\NT REV. WILLIAM H. MOLONY, CS.C. 

1908 
REUNION REGISTIU\NT 
V. A. PARISH. 

1910 
REUNION REGISTRANTS REV. PETER HEBERT, CS.C., STEPHEN H, HERR, REV. MICHAEL A. MATHIS, CS.C , 
JAMES F. REDDING, WILLIAM C. AND CL,\UDE A. SORG. 
Fred L, Steers 

1911 
105 So. LaSallc St. Chicago 3, 111. 
 SCHMITT 

ED STORY was a visitor in the Alumni Office on July 18. Ed Is one of those ND men who have quietly and modestly built the Notre Dame spirit in the world aw-ay from the campus. 
For many years he was active in the hotel busi­
ness in Elk City, Okla.. "The Five Story Hotel 
Tliat Is Two Stories High.'* Recently, with enough 
Stor>-s to carry on, Ed retired. But only from 
the active hotel business. 
He travels extensively, in this country and 
Europe, taking color photographs that, on slides, 
bring entertainment and culture to many fraternal, 
civic and religious groups. The Church gains from 
the rich understanding of the national and inter­
national churches and shrines ^vhich arc a part oE 
Ed's trips. 
But possibly the most significant among the modest enterprises which came from a casual con­versation—and a possible example for other alumni and Churchmen—was the fact that from September to the Easter holidays, Ed Story teaches three regular classes in the parochial school, without salary, as a pergonal gift to God and his fellow men. Quite a Stor>- in himself. 
IQl ^ Paul R. Byrne 
• ' • ^ O^ShauRhncssy Hall Notre Dame, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTR/\NTS >VILLL\M E. COTTER, JUDGE AVILLIAM J. GR^\NFIELD, BYRON HAYES, HARRY J. KIRK AND JAMES ^V. O'HARA. 
^VILLIAM E. COTTER received an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws at St. Michael's Collegers recent Golden Jubilee commencement. The cita­tion read in part: 
"William Edward Cotter, distinguished graduate of the Law School of the University of Notre Dame, few members of your profession have ^ven so much of their time and their talents to ser\'e without recompense the demands of Church and countrj*. You have been an intelligent and pro­gressive leader in almost every conceivable effort to relieve hiunan misery and to promote the civic 
- and cultural ad\*ancement of your fellmv-citizens of all races and creeds." 
Mr. Cotter, counsel for Union Carbide and Car­bon Corp. and a Papal Knight, was cited further for his "voluntary service as counselor to a half-dozen American colleges and universities and for the extraordinary range of your contributions t o American culture." 
191 d Ron O'NeiU 
• ^ • ^ 1350 No. Black Oak Dr. South Bend 17, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 
THOMAS B. CURRY AND 
POYNTELLE DO^^'NING. 

It's no secret that Notre Dame graduated an unusual number of talented and successful lawyers in '14. TIM DO^VNEY and CHARLES FAHT are on the Federal bench; RAY AflLLER heads-up one of Cleveland's outstanding law firms;. TOM CURRY at Hartford, POYNTT DO^VN^NG at Decatur, BILL CUSACK at Los Angeles, SB f FLANAGAN whose International practice takes him' all over the world, ED L/\RNEY at Chicago,. FRANK HOG.AN at Fort Wayne, JIM ROBINS, Mayor of Nogales, and WALT CLEMENS of South Bend and the State of Kentucky have alF distinguished themselves, and their class. 
Now comes word that CHARLIE VAUGHAN of Lafayette has just won a bitterly-contested libel suit, and a judgment for $100,000, against a government contractor who allegedly libeled Charlie's law firm. \Vc saw Charlie a day or two-ago and he was very happy; his only regret that room couldn't be found at ND for Hs son, also-* studying law. 
By natural corollary, some of today's top engi­neers, architects, scientists and scholars must be '14 graduates. Let's have their names, and .we*tt.' help spread their fame! 


Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December,. 1955 55 
TWOMEV CLIFFORD is coming from Cam­
den, Arkansas, for the Purdue game. We forgot 
to mention that Twomcy attended the class re­
union a vcar ago; he seldom misses. 
FATHER MATTHEW WALSH, our beloved Chaplain, recently attended a Cleveland dinner which brought together many men of our day, in­cluding RAY. WALT, DON and JERRY MILLER, HUGH O'NEILL, ST.-VN COFALL, JOE SMITH, GENE KANE, JIM DEVITT, PETE CHAMPION and others. 
Keep news of '14 coming in, a postcard will do it! 
(Ed. Note: Ron O'Xeill, being the modest prof tfiaC he is, failed to mention that he received a Master of Arts degree in English at Notre Dame's summer school commencement. Up to now at least. Ron hasn't demanded that the .-Mumni Of­fice change his class-vear from '14 to '55.—John Cackle>-.J 
1911« James £. Sanford 
• ' • ** 1429 W. Farragut Avenue Chicago 40j Illinots 
REUNION REGISTRANTS LENNOX ARMSTRONG, JOSEPH M. BYRNE, JR., ARTHUR R. CARMODY, EDMUND I. FOLEY, JOSEPH J. HEALY, LD KEESLAR, WILLIA.M KELLEHER, RAYMOND J. KELLY, 
J. F. KENNY, ALBERT A. KUHLE, JOHN Mc-SHANE, WILLIAM J. MOONEY, OWEN MUR­PHY, NORMAN H. R.4NSTEAD, ED^V'ARD F. RIELY, JA.MES E. SANFORD, LEO F. >VELCH AND MARCH WXLLS. 
REUNION COMMITTEE: 
ED FOLEY—Chairman 
JOE BYRSE, JR. R.AY J, KELLY 
AL KUHLE LD KEESLAR 
HARRY MORLEY JIM SANFORD 
The committee, under the able chairmanship of ED FOLEY, turned in an excellent job and judg­ing from Uie letters rcceiied by the members, our attendance would have been doubled had not cir­cumstances beyond their control prevented others from coming. I wish we could print all the letters but space will not permit so wc will do our best to choose a few excerpts so that all the members will continue their interest and return to Notre Dame in 1960 or before, whenever possible. 

GEORGE N. SHUSTER—"I have read your mes­sage about the reunion with profound nostalgia. . . . This occasion coincides with the peak of our academic year so cannot get away. Please extend my ver\' best wshes to all those who do come.*' 
ART CARMODY made it, thanks to his "prayers to the ghosts of Sorin, Corby and Farley." He also wrote '*the mention of Fathers Walsh, Schumacher, Stciner, Dorcmus, Healy, Ir\ing and many others Is enough for one to begin a long hitch hike back to the University." 
JIALMY MATTHEWS—"I can't make it ihJs year accotding to my doctor . . . nothing too wrong but I want to make it In I960.*' 
HAROLD MADDEN—"Tliosc same three days my youngest son is getting a Ph.D. at Michigan. How I would like to see the old I9I3 bunch. By the time some of my 17 grandchildren get to ND I may make it." 
JIM LA WLER—"Believe mc I am heartstick for I have been looking forward to the reunion for months. I underwent serious surgery at Roches­ter, Minn., and am not up to making the trip. Will you please extend to all present, classmates and clergy my kindest regards." 
ALVIN BERGER was unable to come; he had written, *'I intend to be there to sec the oldsters of our day and tell them—you're looking well— you don't show your age—where is the fount of youth?" 
E.\f.\fET LENIHAN—"Unfortunately I have a case set for trial June 7 whicli %vc were unable to continue. Please express my regrets and give personal regards to all the faithful.** 
LARRY LAJOIE—"Please convey to all the fel­

DALL.\S—Scholarship Committee Chairman John Moran (left) congratulates Neal E. Lamping as the first winner of scholarship awarded by Dallas Alumni Club. The scholarship pays §600 annually for four years—a total of $2,400. 
lows my deep regrets and my sincere hope that 
we will meet soon again.** 
OWEN MURPHY—"Looking forward to the re- ',, 

union with delight." But he could not be present, ^ 
Likev%-ise HARRY MORLEY who ser\ed as a 
member of our committee. JOE BYRNE, due to 
the sudden illness of his wife, had \sTitten that he 
could not come but was able to spend a few hours 
on the campus and then hurr>' back to his wife's 
bedside. 
FATHER PAT DOLAN from St. Bernard's 

Church was able also to join us for a few hours. 
BOB ROACH—family bereavement and business 

responsibilities prevented him from attending. He 
had written, "I have recently been appointed Notre 
Dame Foundation Governor for Iowa whicli gives 
me an additional incentive to spend several days at 
Notre Dame.'* Wc missed him greatly. 
RAY KELLY wrote a few days after the reunion, 

so we will close with his beautiful letter, which 
expresses- eloquently the sentiments of those who 
came and those, living and dead, whose spirits sur- -^ 
rounded us during those previous days. 
"You asked for a short letter to give you my 

impression of our 40th Reunion at Sotre Dame 
this past week end. 
"Well, Jim, I have tried to find an expression 

to describe the splendid three-day Reunion of our 
Class of 1915. The best I can do is to describe 
it as 'a Fellowship Retreat.* 
"Although wc attended ^fa5s each morning and 

received Our Lord in Holy Communion, the gath­
ering was in no sense a religious retreat. While 
\ve, of course, also gathered much peaceful com­
fort from our visits to the many sacred spots which 
inspired our youthful days at Our Lady's Univer­
sity'—the Grotto, the Main Churcli. the Chapels 
and all the rest—the outstanding feeling which will 
remain Mth me was the Joy I experienced in just 
meeting together with my fellow classmates and \ 
rew-ing once more many almost forgotten mem- i' 
ories of our happy, youthful, student days; the 
pleasure we got from just being together once 
more and for a fc«' short days gazing In retrospect 
through the stained glass windoH*s of Life, contem­
plating our 40 yexirs of struggle with the problems 
of the world and reliving our fondest memories 
of those early days with those w-ho shared them. 
"That, Jim, is my picture of our 'Fellowship 

retreat.* May God spare us all *til we meet 
again." 
Tlie other day I happened by chance to pick up a copy of the DOME and was astounded to see how handsome everj'body was at the time. 
Aoyead 
1§ 

191 A Grover F. Miller " " ' 612 Wisconsin Avenue Racine, ^Visconsin 
The Class of 1916 will be celebrating its 40ili reunion in not too many months, and already names of a h\v to attend arc coming in; REV. VINCENT MOONEY, Kenton, Ohio; HUGH CARROLL, Hammond, Ind.; LOU KEIFER, Terre Haute, Ind.; RAY McADAMS, Miami, Fla.; RALPH LATHROP, New York; TO.M HAYES, East Grand Rapids; RUSSELL DOU^NEY, Soutli Bend; GROVER MILLER, Racine, Wis. 
1917 Edward J. McOsker " " 2205 Briarwood Road Cleveland Hgts. 18, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTRANT JOHN M. .MILLER. 

1910 George E. Harbert " " * 108 No. Main Street Sycamore, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTRANT RAY WIPPLE. 

Wc learn belatedly with regret of the passing of HERBERT C. HELLRUNG on November 6, 1932. 
36 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 
Word just came to us that he dlrd of a heart at­tack. Herbert was at Notre Dame with us, but left to enter the armed forces before graduation. r Ills home was in Alton, III. His many friends ^vill join in extending their sympathy to the fam­ily, and wc will all remember him in our prayers. 
J.V.MES P. LOGAN, PH.B. in journalism, Js now executive vice-president of \rountain States Employers Council, Inc. of Denver. He is making a success of his business and raising a fine family. Jim reports he has three daughters and one son, but most important, eight grandchildren. His father, a real old timer (80 years in Denver), passed away July 3 at the age of 96. ^Ve join with the family in our prayers for a fine pioneer. (Ed. Note: Jim Logan is a "Spotlight Alumnus" featured in this issue. J.C.) 
By the way, we wrote 30 letters to get news. Responses, two, plus six returned—moved, no ad­dress. Arc we getting too old to care? 
101 0 Theodore C. Rademakcr Peru Foundry Company Peru, Indiana 
199 n Ralph W. Bergman 
• '^ " 1609 No. Jefferson Ave. St. Louts 6t Missouri 
REUNION REGISTRANTS JAMES H. BAILEY, JOHN T. BALFE, PAUL R. CONAGHAN, M. E. DORAN, PAUL S. DOUT­HITT. ED\VARD J. LALLEY, J. PAUL LOOSEN, EDWARD C. McMAHON, E. J. MEEHAN, HAR­RY RICHWINE, JAMES H. RYAN, R. B. SWIFT AND ALBERT A. UEBBING. 
, CHET GRANT has moved—chronologically, at *** least. He's found a home in the Class of 1920. Chet explains his travels in time this way: 
"By my request, based on what process of rea­soning I don't recall, Jim Armstrong recorded me as of the '21 class—a sort of compromise between the fact that the spring of 1922. was my fourth at Notre Dame, but my first dated back to 1916, and I had never been graduated. Belatedly, it oc­curred to me that the 1920 class would include more mates who took time out for the war as I did. So—" 
Welcome, Chet, welcome. Our regrets to the Classes of 1921 and 1922. (Sec *22 Class Sotcs.) 
igOl Dan W. Duffy 
•'^ ' 1101 N.B.C. Bid?. Cleveland 14, Ohio 
197 7 Gerald A. Ashe 
• '^ ^ 39 Cambridire Street J Rochester 17, N. Y. 
For the 1922 section of the ALUMNUS tliis time we are going to publish two letters from class­mates. This first is from TOM S. Mca\BE, ad­dressed to your sccretarj', winch reads as follows; 
"Just finished reading the ALUMNUS and your customary contribution. I had hoped before this that you would have been recalled from the out­post of civilization in St. Paul to take charge of the Chicago Office of yooir firm. Eadi year I work harder and harder at that place in Elmhurst (Illinois) tr>*ing to get it in shape for your prom­ised inspection and keep thinking—Well, the Kid will surely be here this year, and the years go on and you have not yet shown. Believe me, G.A., It is discouraging to get out there and dig out the dandelions and shine up the brass on the front door and to cut, curry and shampoo that lawn, to water the onion patch and still no Ashe. 
^ After all, I am not getting any younger. Why don't you slide down to Chicago some weekend? I can promise you that I will produce at least a 
Col. Shenvood Dixon, '20, U.S. Army, Retired, (Center), admires the award received by his son, Henry L. Dixon, at Ft. Campbell ROTC Summer Camp. Henry is a senior at Notre Dame. Accompanying Shemood was Major-General Harry Bolen, U.S. Army, Retired, for­mer commander of the 44th Infantry Division. 
half-dozen members of '22 to greet you, viz— H.AROLD McKEE, JERRY DIXON, JOHNNY RAHE, CHET \\'YNNE and maybe even BIG BRUCE HOLMBERG. We have ample accommo­dations now that young Tom has snipped those apron strings, or at least, stretched them far. He is now a lieutenant in the Marine Corps, assigned to the First Marine Division at Camp Pendleton, Calif.t and living in San Clemcnte, so he docs not get home many weekends. Let me know in ad­vance so I can 'round up' the boys." 
^fany thanks to you, Tom. Be assured I am anxiously awaiting that next Chicago \-isit with you and all of my other *22 classmates thereabouts. 
The second letter promised for publication was written bv FR/\NK OTT from Herkimer, N. Y., to .\ARON HUGUENARD, our class president, who resides in South Bend. Frank writes under letter­head of H. G. ^flInger and Company, Inc., as follows: 
"Dear Aaron: 
"BE IT KNOW.V: "—that I was flattered to read in our class notes that you had carried a thought of me up into the Land of Lakes of Minnesota; 
"—that our worthy Secretary was proven a true Son of '22 with on-the-spot-in formation as to my address; 
"—that I am following his directive and writing to you; 
'*—and that I consider the directive so Im­portant (written with a capital *'I,*' you note) that I am haWng this letter delivered by special messenger (blonde) to the law sector in South Bend and deposited in a mail box not too far from your swivel chair and Blackstone. You will note the South Bend postmark, m evidence. 
"At this point, I am not sure whether I should pursue the blonde introduced in the paragraph above or just let the whole thing hang with any number of conclusions for you to choose from. I'll take it under advisement. 
"At any rate, it was something like 18 months ago (correction—30 months ago) that you gathered at the Weber Hacienda and polished the golden dome again, being the 30TH ANNIVERSARY OF OUR CLASS. That was the time I was going to put your name in nomination for governor and DR. MANION*s name for the Supreme Bench. 
But duties left me stranded on the banks of the Hudson while you were threading your way along the banks of tlie- St. Joe to the Diamond Lake Rancho. 
"Then I wrote that I would stop and see you on my way to California in the summer of '33. 
•Now this brings me to the tough going (long pause to consider an easy way out). 
"I'll have to say that I did get into South Bend one hot summer day; that I encamped at the ^fo^ris Inn and rushed on with Mrs. Ott to keep a date in Chicago and get the Vista Dome to the golden state, taking with me a resolution to *sce Aaron' on my return. 
"That brings me to ^VNTHONY JACKSON, one of the bo>'s over in Brownson, in a sailor uniform. He was the first fellow I met when I slinked into Notre Dame in 1918. I ^%-as a lone wolf from the Ohio watershed, but Jackson was with his dad. I met him at the gravel walk by the post office, and together we three marched on the Adminis­tration Building and a new era. He belonged in our class, but scarlet fever, which along with the flu, was running right and Icfc. got him and he dropped back a year. 
"(You can see the length I am taking to work up a case for myself; you can sec also I am going to need a.good lawj'cr to do it.). . 
"Continue: Now Jackson had taken to himself a Mishawaka blonde (Hilda Van Der Walle, if I re­member" rightly) and in'a'period- of''30 years'had 6-lltlis of a football team and 3 St. Mary's cheer­leaders, while I had only one daughter who had run afoul and went to St. Rose of .-Vlbany, which is practically next door to the Brothers of Holy Cross who run St. Vincent's Institute . . . and is also the headquarters of Father Peyton. 
"I thought I should talk this whole thing over with Jack and Hilda, so we arranged a 30-year meeting at the Inn . . . just the four of us . . . no kids around. 
".And that's how I missed out on your call I had looked forvs-ard to. Of course it doesn't excuse me in any way. In the back of my mind I had heard of what heights you had reached, and I hesitated to break into your family circle of an evening, because I wasn't downtott-n in South Bend to drop into your office. 
"However, be it resoK-ed . . . come California 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December^ 1955 37 
REV. JAMES B. CORRIGAN, S.J., '35 

New president of Campion Jesuit High School in Prairie du Ghien, Wis., is the Very Rev. James B. Corrigan, 
S.J.J '35. Father will also serve as rector of the 51-member Jesuit com­munit}' at the well-knowTi boys' acad­emy. 
Four years after earning his A.B. degree in journalism at Notre Dame, Father Corrigan entered the Society of Jesus at Florissant, Mo. He received his master's degree in histor>' from St. Louis University in 1945 and was ordained in 1949. 
He was assigned to retreat work during the next two years and in 1951 was appointed assistant principal of St. Louis University High School. He was principal there for the past two years. 
Father's appointment to Campion brings him closer to his native Mil­waukee where his mother and two sisters still reside. Father Jim's twin brother, John, also a 1935 N.D. grad­uate, lives in Philadelphia with his wife and twin daughters. 
At Campion, Father Corrigan suc­ceeds the Rev. Augustine F. Giunta, S.J., who was named first director of the year-old AVisconsin province. Father Jim's appointment was made by the Very Rev, John Baptist Janssens, S.J., Jesuit superior general. 
Campion has an enrollment of 490 boarders and 35 day students. Among its alumni are many Notre Dame men. 
agala, I will stop und check your weight, 
"And you, too, don't miss this Beautiful Mo­hawk Valley where that history Prof. Manion so \%ell taught us, was made. I could give you a beautiful whirl in this part of the country. 
"While I still live in ALBAiW AT 233 S. 

^LMN AVENUE, I have been up here in Herkimer 
;^out a year, and commute on the Thruway about 
three limes a week (75 miles in 75 minutes). Am 
still doing the advertisins and promotion work, and 
in addition am merchandising ready-to-wear, and 
look after a branch store at Boon\iIle. This store 
here is a little gem; a one-karat compared to 
Robertson's four-karat, but a perfect blue-white. 
"Just at the next door is DR. GAVAGAN, a Notre Dame lad who is going to fill my tooth in one hour and 15 minutes. DR. O'SHAUGHNESSY is just around the comer, another XD'cr. And the Notre Dame Club here at Utica is a live one. Had 3 Communion Breakfast last Sunday. So you'll be right at home when you get into your Cadillac, turn right onto route 20, pick up the Thruway at Depcw, N. Y., and come to Exit 30, Herkimer or Exit 26, Albany. 
"Xo^v, ha\ing considered the matter of the blonde, I will put the third sheet of paper into the ancient Remington No. 12 of the Teddy Roose­velt vintage, and tell you that she is our milliner)' buyer who was born in Niles and wlio used to lead the hat parade at 'good old Ells^v'orth's' (%vith one or t\%*o I's). This will give you an idea that she began to star in the time of Rockne, and car­ries nothing of the double threat of Marilyn. Your letter is safe in her hands and I expect it to reach its destination via Pacemaker just before you close the la^v* books, sign the last brief, and pack up to go home to Christmas. 
"Excuse my errata. I couldn't ver>- well put this letter in the hands of the secretary*, so I had to let the Remington carr>' on.*' 
Your Secretary had a vcr>* fine visit with DAN YOUNG and wife Loretta up at their home located at Hoyt Lakes, ^linn. For information of those who have not previously heard about it, Dan is general manager for Foley Brothers Construction Company, which is building for Erie Mining Com­pany a taconitc project at cost of $300,000,000 to process low grade iron ores for the Pidcens jfathcr financial group. Construction includes a huge taconite plant near Aurora, Minn., a harbor on Lake Superior, a railroad approximately 90 miles long connecting the plant and harbor, pou-er plants, and highways. The Dan Youngs are haWng a son graduated from St. Joseph's College in Phila­delphia tliis June and they arc hoping to be present for the occasion. 
Earlier we mentioned that we were going to publish two letters from classmates. Well, here is an added starter fresh from the pen of FRANK BLOEMER of Louisville, wTittcn in late May. 
Frank sa.ys: 
"Will you please excuse the formality of this letter. I am down at the office early this morning as our Notre Dame Club of Kentucky* is going to take off today for our annual retreat at Geth­semani and I do want to catch up on a lot of my long overdue correspondence. 
*'I was all wrong about the date in South Bend tliat I spoke about in my last letter. I had forgotten that they now separate the graduation and the reunion programs- Tommy, our daughter Rutli's husband, will get his degree on June 5. He finished in February his engineering course but tliey are going back to the graduation and I am quite certain that the proud mother-in-law and father-in-law are going to be present. 
"I was on the campus last Saturday with a Louisville lad, in fact a cousin of Tommy's, who is quite a basketball player. He graduates this year from one of our LouisWlIe high scliools. I feel sure he is going to select Notre Dame to further both his academic and athletic career, and I do hope that he will make a very good man for JOHNNY JORDAN. JOEY VIVLVNO stands 6 feet five inches tall and is vcr>- aggressive on tlie basketball court and carried away All-State honors this year, which should give him quite a nice recommendation, and Johnny was very happy to hear that he was interested in Notre Dame. 
" I sec CORNIE and ED PFEIFFER quite regu­larly and alwa>-s they ask to be remembered to you, and all of us hope in the not too distant future your work will bring you into Louisville for a stay so that we can have a fevv old-time gct-togetliers. Lots of good luck. Kid, and re­member all of us in your prayers.** 
Many thanks to you, Frank, Eddie and Comic. Nothing on the present horizon seems to indicate an 
early visit to Louisville, but stranger things have happened and I eagerly await that next trip to Louisville. EDDIE GOTTRY said you all were V wonderful to him on the occasion of his recent visit. By the way, Eddie is now back in New York City and his address is the Hotel George Washington. 
Other news from *T*venty-twos: the E. BRAD­LEY BAILEYS married off their daughter, Joan, to Patrick Joseph McCormick, H, October 1 in Jenkintown, Pa. .. . J. C. WALTER has been made manager of communications engineering of tho Engineering Products Division, Radio Corpora­tion of America. . . . FRANK B. BLOEMER, JR. has resigned as president of the Blocmcr Food Sales Company in LouisWlle—be continues as a director—to launch a food brokerage business. Frank would like to hear from anyone w-ith a tip that might lead to a good brokerage account in < the Louisville market. His new- business address is Frank B. Blocmcr Jr. Co.y Inc., 915 S. Scicnth St., Louis\'iIle 3, Ky. 
We learn with mucli sorrow*' that two of ourH^: classmates have died recently—HON. D. WORTH CLARK, former U. S. senator from Idaho w-ho had moved this year from his native Idaho to Los. Angeles, and JAMES R. DOOLEY of North And­over, Mass. As this is being written, we do not have any details concerning Jim Dooley's death. We of *22 are verj" sorry to lose these fine men, and w-e do tender our loving svTnpathy and prayers to the widows and families of the deceased. 
FR.-\NCIS NErrZEL, '23, of Boise, Idaho, a long-time friend and schoolmate of Worth Clark, very thoughtfully sent us details of Worth's death. He tells us that Worth died June 19 in his 53rd year at his Los Angeles home of a massive coronary thrombosis. His wife, "VHrgil, and daughter, Dor­othy, were with him at the time. 
IVorth was bom ia Idaho Falls and u-as gradu­ated from Notre Dame and Harvard Law School. % He practiced law in Pocatello and was assistant ^ attorney general of Idaho before going to Wash­ington to serve two terms as congressman. 
He was elected to the U. S. Senate in 1940. Four years later. Worth lost the Democratic nomination to Glen Taylor; he won from Taylor in the 1950 primary only to lose to Republican Senator Herman Welker in the general election. 
Worth at the time of his death held ftnandat interests in radio stations KGIL, Van Nu>-s, Calif.; KJR5, San Francisco; KULA, Konululu, and also in a Las Vegas bank. 
Surviving, in addition to his wife, Virgil, and daughter, Dorothy, arc his mother, ^frs. Nellie Clark of Boise, and two married daughters, "Sfrs. Thomas Barber of Berkeley, Calif., and Mrs. Wil­liam AVurzburger of Baltimore. 
Possibly by the next issue CHARLES "CHUCK" CRO^VLEY of greater Boston, ^^•ho was a close -. friend and football teammate of Jim Dooley, wilt . have furnished details concerning Jim's recent doings and death. We personally knc;v Jim in his ND campus da>"s as a verj' fine gentleman. We regret that we had not visited with him since our 25th-annivcrsary class reunion at ND. 
Every member of our class was shocked to hear the ver>- sad news of the death of CHESTER A. \VYNNE, JR., age 21, of Oak Park, III. 
Young Chet, a law senior at Notre Dame, was returning from a southern Air Force base where he had served with his R.O.T.C. unit, when he was killed in an airplane accident July 17 at the Chicago airport. 
We tender our sincere sympathy to the sorro\v­ing parents and aho to the parents of another ND boy, PHILIP VEESART, who was traveling with the younger ^Vynne and was killed in the same accident. 1 
Congratulations to ^frs. CHARLES J. HIRSH­BUHL of Portland, Ore., for the arrival of her fourth grandson on May 26. The proud parents, whom we also felicitate, arc the Bradley Qainns of Fresno, Calif. Mrs. Ilirshbuhl, better known as Pat; reported a grand Spring visit to La Paz, Mexico, v%*hcrc the marlin were biting. Also, she greatly enjoyed graduation exercises and dinner at the University of Portland. H 
REV. GEORGE FISCHER, C.S.C., reports a ^ ' very enjo>*able reunion in Syracuse, N. Y., with LEO KELLY and GEORGE "DUKE" KINNEY. 
DR. HENRY S. ATKINSON and \%-ifc, Evelyn, made a telephone report to your scribe this Sum­
-mer of a Green Bay, Wis., visit by DR. and Mrs. DANIEL SEXTON of St. Louis, who were motor­ing to northern 'Wisconsin for a vacation-period stay. 
By the way, HE.\RTLEY "HUNK" ANDER­SON seems to have lost none of his know-how and cunning in developing first-class football lines, B| as witness the wonderful performance of the All--' 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus^ NovembeT'December, 1955 
Star college tram In their mid-August battle with the Cleveland Browns. Hunk, Curley Lambcau and ^^ others did exceptionally well in their coaching assignment. 
Congratulations to MR. and Mrs. ED^\^X J. BYRNE of Natdicz, Miss., upon the occasion of the marriage of their daughter, Saralt Ilenc, to Mr. Joseph Peyton Parker of Monroe, La., on June II in St. Mary's Cathedral Jn Natchez. The bride is a graduate of Sacred Heart Academy, Cullman, Ala., and of Louisiana State University, where she majored in elementary education. The bridegroom was graduated from L.S.U. Law School in January '55 and is now practicing law la Baton Rouge. We heartily congratulate the Joseph Parkers and send our best wishes. 
There were also wedding bells ringing down Jenkinlown, Pa., way when Joan Rcgina Bailey, daughter of the E. BR^VDLEY BAILEYS, was married to Mr. Patrick Joseph McCormick II in 

A'- the Church of the Immaculate Conception on Oc­
' tobcT 1. The wedding breakfast was held in the Curtis Arboretum, Wyncotc, Pa. Congratulations and best wishes to the ncwiywcds and special re­gards to the mother and dad of the bride—^Joan and Ed have raised and reared a wonderfully large family. 
IQO ^• ^^ ^  Louis V. Bruggner  2165 Riverside Dr.  
South Bend, Indiana  
REUNIOX  REGISTR^VNTS  

JOHN P. CHAPLA, RICILVRD NASH AND \V. E. SHE.\. 

MICHAEL F. SEYFRir of Carlinvflle, Illinois, was killed September I in an automobile accident. ^^< Details are given in his obituary at the beginning of the Class Notes section of this ALUMNUS. 
Mike was prominent in Illinois Democratic party politics and had held positions as president of the Macoupin County Bar association, state chairman o[ the Democratic State Central Committee, state public safety director, and the state parole and pardon board. He is 5iir\"ivcd by his wife, the for­mer Helen R. Clifford. They had no children. 
A postcard from Paris, France, came many weeks ago from HARRY FLxVNNERY. Harry wrote: "Wonderful trip—first time in company with Ruth and Pat. Been to Italy, Germany, Aiistria. Ahead are England, Scotland, Ireland." Harry is editor of the weekly AFL Neu-s-Rcporter in Washington. 
The KEN KRIPPENE Kronicle is rapidly assum­ing the status of a private file folder in my desk, as further mail and incidents are added. LYLE 

'", MILLER wrote in May to let me know that "Ken and his wife, Jane, were wailing for me at my office last Friday noon and much to the surprise of all, I called him by name after all these years . . . they were on their way to Chicago from Miami for a lecture tour and then headed west to HoIl>"wood, where their new picture 'Green Hell on the Amazon' is to be produced." 
Then there was in August, a lengthy letter from 
TOM LEx\HY, North Miami realtor: 
"I read your notes about Ken Krippenc and I wrote to him at the Miami address you gave. As a result he and his wife called at my office a couple of ivcefcs ago and ivc had a nice \Tsit, . . . He informed me he plans to stay in Miami for a couple of months more and then go on a lecture tour through the East during the winter months. .. . I invited Ken to attend the next meeting of 

'1 the ND Club of Greater ^fi'ami. . . . He prom­
' *" ised to show some motion pictures of the jungle at a meeting in the near future. .. . He told some rather tall talcs about tall mahogany trees in the jungle . . . opportunities to make profit to anyone able to set up a sawmill. .. . As a result several members of this Club are showing some interest in taking a trip into the jungles. . . . 
"You will note from tliis letterhead that I have gUea up racket busting and am now in the real estate business. . . . You might tell any of the *23 members that if they come to the Miami area, I would like to hear from them. .. . I uill also be glad to help them acquire choice morsels of Florida real estate." Tom's business address is 12485 N.E. 7th avenue, North Miami, Florida. 
EMERY TOTH, whose name appears on the City of Toledo, Ohio, letterhead as "Real Estate Attorney," was in South Bend around the first 

^ of August with his witc and daughter, Sue. They had spent Emery's \'acation and an unnamed amount of money at a lake resort tn Miclilgan and were headed home for Toledo. They stopped at South Bend to satisfy Sue's curiosity about Notre Dame, and sweltered out the night at Aforris Inn on the campus. The visit came just before 
4:30 p.m. so I telephoned JOE NYIKOS, who tossed off his jurist's robes and came over to join the coffee clatch. 
A note left on my desk June 11 said "Mr. Shea, Mr. Nash and Mr. Dugan were in to see you." I am sorry I was out and to my own shame I must report that I did not attend the Commence­ment actiWttcs (vhich, tWthout doubtj were the reason for the presence- in town of RED SHEA, DICK Nx\SH and the alleged "Dugan." 
J. ST^VNLEY BR^VDBURY of Robinson, III., is state president of the Big Brothers and Sisters As­sociation, active in delinquency prevention. 
100 4 J^^cs R. ^fcehan 329 S. Lafayette Blvd. SoutK Bend 10, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTR^VNTS THOM.\S W. BARBER, ALVIN KOEHLER, JA.MES R. MEEH.1N .\ND HARRY STILLStAN. 

(Ed. Note: Father Tom Kelly, who has served so capably as Class Secretarv', has been trans­ferred from Washington, D. C , to the University of Portland, Portland, Ore. In view of additional duties in his new assignment Fr. Kelly has asked tliat Jim Meehan take over the job as class secre­tary. He has accepted and we urge that your news items in the future be directed to Jim Meehan. 
-J.c.) 
ALBERT aVSTELLINI, former president of the Cincinnati Club, was guest of honor at the 54th annual outing of the Associated Irish Organizations of Greater Cincinnati in August. He was chosen, reports the Covington, Ky., Enquirer, because of his love of Ireland and his interest in that coun­tr>"'s freedom. He Is a member of, among other groups, both the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick and the Fratcllanza Society. 
197 1 Jol"» P- Hurley 
I TAB 2085 Brookdale Road 
Toledo 6, Ohio 

REUNION REGISTR:\NTS RICHARD APP, JXSVES E. ARMSTRONG, JOHN B.VRTLEY, WILLUM R. BELL, J. A. BENTJING, GEORGE BISCHOFF, LEO J. BOETTINGER, M. 
J. BOUUS-D, CY CALDW-ELL, THOMAS &\R­FAGNO, CHARLES J. CASEY, J,\MES D. COL­LINS, JOHN COURTNEY, EDWARD CUDDIHY, R\\' CUNT<INGH,\M, WALTER J. CYR, JULIUS 
J. Di\NCH, PAUL DOOLEY, LEONARD J. DORSCHEL, GEORGE DRISCOLL, JOHN R. DROEGE, VIRGIL P. FAGAN, AL E. FOOS, ROBERT K. GORDON, J. LEO GRACE, WAL­TER HAECKER, a P. HAFEL, JOSEPH M. IL\GERTY, W. D. H,VLL, KENNETH HAM­MOND, CL^UIENCE ILVRDING, A. P. HEEB, RtVLPH HEGER, J. F. HERLIHY, LEONARD M. HESS, FR,\NK W. HOWLAND, JOHN P. HUR­LEY', WILLLAM HURLEY, KI KAISER, JOHN K,\NE, DR. FRANCIS L. KENTJEDY, BEN KESTING, E. F. KOHL, GEORGE Li\UGHLIN, 
B. W. LEY, B. B. LIVERGOOD, ED^VIN J. LUTHER, EDWARD LYONS, WARD McCAR-RON, FRilNCIS McFADDEN, FRANKLIN Mc-SORLEY, WALTER J. METZGER, DONALD C. MILLER, GEIULD W. MILLER, A«LLL\M R. MOLONY, JR., JOHN R. MOR,\N, C. M. MOUCH, HAROLD MOYL.AN, FRANK MUR­Ri\Y, A. J. PORTA, LEO J. POWERS, PAUL ROMWEBER, PAUL SAGSTETTER, JOHN W. SQ\LL.\N, GIL SCHAEFER, KARL SCIHET­TLE, GEORGE A. SCHWARZ, W. J. SEIDEN­STICKER, BILL SHEEHAN, A. A. SOMMER, FRANK STEEL, MORT STETTAUER, JOHN S. STOKELY, H,\RRY STUHLDREHER, RAY L. TILL.\L\N, J. J. TOOLEN, JOHN P. TRAYNOR, FRED UHL, BILL VOOR, HAROLD WATSON, J,UtES W. WRriPE, HENRY C. WURZER AND 
REV. CLi\RENCE J. YE,VGER. 

It just doesn't seem possible that three decades have passed since fellows like WALTER J. "BUTCH" aiECKER and JOHN "DOC" STOKELY have come back to the campus and swapped yams with their classmates. Maybe there were more who had never been back for a *25 reunion but those two, I know, made their first reunion. It was a great one in every respect. I*m going to let CACKLEY or AR.MSTRONG list oflicially those who did come back. 
I want to take this opportunity to again thank 
JAMES P. LOGAN, '18 

"That labor problems be thought outj not fought out" is the slogan and guiding principle of the Mountain States Employers Council, whose activities have been directed since its founding in 1939 by James P. Logan, '18, currently executive vice-president of MSEC. 
A native of Denver, Mr. Logan re­ceived his Ph.B. in journalism and economics from Notre Dame, then served as a tank corps sergeant in World War I. He took post-graduate work in economics and labor relations at Dublin's Trinity College and later studied at'the Wharton School. 
After a time as a New York broker, he returned to Denver as owner of the Logan Moving & Storage Co., which he sold in 1945 to devote full time to Council duties. 
As representative of the Transfer and Warehouse industry, Mr. Lc^an was instrumental in the formation of the Colorado Employers Council and was appointed its first managing di­rector. This group, now kno\vn as Mountain States Employers Council and representing some 500 employees in Colorado, Wyoming and New Mex­ico, has as its objective a better under­standing • between management and labor. 
Mr. Logan has also been chairman of the Industrial Relations Group of the National Industrial Council and Industry chairman for both the Re­gional War Labor Board and the Re­ional Wage Stabilization Board. 
Notre Dame Alumnus. November-December, 1955 39 
CENTRAL OHIO—The ND Alumni club in Columbus honored Terry Brennan at a dinner this summer. Left to right: £d Krause, Club President John Murphy, Dr. Hughes, Bi]] Earley and Brennan. 
my classmates for their cooperation in making this "the biggest and bestest 30th reunion any class has had." Wasn't it wonderful when Jim Annstrong was presented with that $7,500 and he said "It's tough being Irish and Scotch. My Irish cj'cs arc misty with tears of gratitude and my Scotdi hands hate to pick up the check"? I too want to thank DOX MILXXR, his committee and the class for the beautiful plaque presented to your secretary—it's more than I desen'c but I appreciate receiving' iL Thanks also to EVARD KOHL for getting the cranes and his donation to this cause. We have some to sell at our Navy Football Reunion, Oc­tober 29. 
Before going into the details of the weekend I'm 

going to mention the wonderful letters and wires I 
received from fellows who couldn't come. 
JOE MENGER sent a swell letter and gave us information about the fellows deep in the heart of Texas. Joe writes "Sorr>' I can't make the 30th Class reunion but it is impossible. The great­est thing that happened dou-n here in Texas in 30 years was JIM ARMSTRONG'S \-isit to San An­tonio last April. It was mighty nice seeing him. Give my best wishes to all the fellows for a vcr>* successful reunion." He adds a postscript. *'As foi the fellows of our Class '25, MIKE NEEDHAM is with the Buick Company at Sinton, Texas (Mike died June 13; his obituarj* appears in this issue), and in his neighboring town is Chief FRANCIS AV. LEARY, district supervisor of the Alice Office of the Humble Pipe Line Company. He married one of the South Bend girls—Ethel Bickel. 
"A letter from JOSEPH D. SHELLY, vice-treas­urer, Chicago Title & Trust Company, says lie's keeping quite bus>'. 
"JOHN W. SNAPARD sent a Christmas card from the American Airlines OHicc in New York. Haven't heard from ALBERT J. de LORENZI, Dallas, lately. 
"WILLIAM V. DIELMANN is busy in the in­surance business here in San Antonio while LEON­ARD M. HESS, who lives here, spends much time at his Marathon Ranch, 300 miles w*est. 
"ARTURO GONZALES was last heard of years ago in Laredo. TONY GONZALES of the Philip­pine Islands, passed through San Antonio last month 
cnroute from Houston to Honolulu, ivhcrc he is in 
the insurance business. His boy is a student at 
Notre Dame. Tony phoned me between planes and we had a lovely visit." 
BROTHER HYACINTH writes from Brothers of Holy Cross, Saint Joseph of Holy Cross, Vaiau'e, the Class (1925) reunion at Notre Dame, on June ID to 12. ^ '^ould llkn verv mucli to attend, but w*e are right now having our annual retreat and I shall not be free until after the 12thj which would 
make it far too late. During the few years of my assignment to Gllmour Academy m Gates Mills, Ohio. I met several members of our class. During the four years of this work of relations, publicity, and seeking new personnel for the Congregation throughout the New England States. I have not bt^cn seeing many members of our class, but I do, houe\*er, meet many University Alumni. I was hoping to make this reunion, but circumstances will not allow. As a substitute for what I shall be missing, I hope to meet some of you people in my travels through New England. Best wishes for a Happy Reunion for the entire group." 
JOHN KILKENNY of Kilkenny & Fabre. At­torney's at Law, Pendleton, Ore., writes: "My son's graduation from the University of Oregon on June 12 prevents my returning to the 30th anniversary of the graduation of my class. I shall make ever>* attempt to be present on the 35th anniversary. My regards to all. KII." 
Congratulations to you and your son, KII, and we sure missed you—will be looking forward to seeing you on our 35th. 
HAROLD HALL addressed his wire to Class ol '25 Skid & Skive Champs, Sorin Hall—**Jusi checking up to be sure evcr>bo**y « in by 12 o'clock, especially BARTLEY. Regards, Harold Hall." 
CHARLIE DONAHUE wired: "Greetings and salutations. Hope to be with all of you in 1960." 
JOHN A. YUNG wired LEN HESS: "Had ex­pected to fly up tomorrow with my l3-ycar-old to meet you and your family. Regards to them and to BILL HURLEY and our other friends of the class. Tell all our friends who haven't seen me that I look Just like I did when we graduated." Only a Texan would say that! 
LEN HESS and his wonderful wife and family again made our 30th. This charming letter came before our reunion and Mrs. Hess made good her promise. She knows more classmates by their first name than your secretary does. Mar>- didn't need a guide to shou* Mark around. She knows her Notre Dame! 
*'Far be it from me to let that cordial innta­tton pass unansivercd! It was a real suzprisn and the loveliest compliment the girls and I have ever received from a Notre Dame man. We are making plans for the trip in June and God willing, we'll be there—that Is—^Leonard and I will. The younger of our daughters, Ruth Marie, has been married two years and lives in Lincoln, Neb. Claire fin­ished college in June '54 and has a wonderful position with United Sen'ice Automobile Associa­tion, and as her \'acatIon time doesn't come up until October she doubts tliat she will take time off for a trip In June. However, ^ve arc bringing our • eldest son, Mark, w*ho expects to be a student a* r Notre Dame in the Fall of '56. Wc think it an excellent opportunity for him to become ac­quainted with Notre Dame—^just hope wc can find a guide to show us around while you boys art busy with the reunion. It will be wonderful seeing all of you again." 
LARRV CASEY writes—with a footnote by JOE HAGERTY, his old pal who did make the reunion: "I returned yesterday from my son's graduation at Notre Dame. Received your card and am sorry I cannot make it. Best regards to all. P.S.: Hope the Lake Water holds out." 
JIM WARGIN wired: "Sorr>-I cannot attend class reunion. My sincere and best wishes for a ver>* fine class get together and hope to make it next time." Jim, wc ttm hope you can make our 35th. 
GEORGE LUDWIG and STE\^E CORBOY's*^ wire had a sobering effect on the gang. You can be sure your classmates remembered your son, George, and your mother, Steve, in their prayers. (George's son was ill, Steve's mother died.} 
ERV FLEMING wired from Aransas Pass, Tex.: *'Sorr>* I cannot join you. Tell the class of 1925 that I am dott'n on the Gulf fishing. Having a wonderful time; wbh you were here," as did ED 0*TOOLE from Chicago: "Sorr>-I am absent. Hax'c fun but remember your age." 
FRANK REESE wired from Robinson, III.: "Trust you all are hanng an enjoj-able 30th re­union. Sorry I could not make it because of business. Regards to cver>'onc." Wc missed you, Frank. 
ED POLHOUS wired from Dearborn, ifich.: "Had hoped to be on hand. Surely regret not ,^ getting to see all the fellows." '^ 
DR. CHARLES G. GUTH wired from Cleveland: "Congratulations to classmates attending 30th re­union. Family activities and responsibility of new position prevents my attending. God willing, I'll be at the 35th in 19fi0. Good luck." 
Good "Old" JOHN RYAN of the Class of '26 wired: "Jfay you old birds of '25 have as happy a 30th reunion in '55 as wr young guys of '26 hope to have in '56." Thanks, John, for remem­bering us, and I'm sure '26 will have a great re­union because they have a swell "Sec " 
JOHN R. MORAN of Denver was the first to WTitc AFTER the reunion. "It was a great pleas­ure to see you and all those 25*ers at the reunion and I am looking forward to the next one. By that time I i«Il be over the bed sores I got from old Sorin's Spartan comforts. Best to you and f, the family." Thanks, John. It was great being with you, too. 
One of the things we DID decide on was to have an annual reunion during each football sea­son. This year it will be Na%-y on October 29. We will all meet In the 19th hole in ^forris Inn after the game. This time your family and friends arc inWted. 
PAUL KOHOUT holds a record—can any of you fellows beat this? Paul mentioned that he had nine grandclitldren. It seems that Paul might be leading the class in this regard. 
Finally, for the information of those who were not at the reunion meeting, a South Bend com­mittee headed by JOHN DROEGE will Investigate a possible project on the campus for the class of '25. 
UERNIE LEY is president of the Akron Real I. Estate Board. 
CHARLES C. COLLINS did a commendable job in getting out the Chicago alumni for the Laymen's Retreat this summer. 
At the Ohio University commencement exer­cises in June, MOST REV. JOHN KING MUS­SIO, bishop of the Steubemille diocese, delivered the baccalaureate sermon on tlie subject "A Graduate Looks Forward." 
BILL HURLEY, national qualifications award committee chairman for the National Life Under­writers Association, received an award from the national association as agent who has combined high standards of ethical conduct and insurance business production. 
GEORGE B. SHEEHE missed the reunion be­cause of the critical illness of his mother. ,^, 
KARL J. CONNELL writes that business kept ^ him from attending. He's with the United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers Home Admin­istration, in Lake Andes,' So. Dak. 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 
1926 J"'™ J-^y^ I TAQ 2458 Greenleaf Avenue Chicago 43, Illinois Steve Ronay 
1927 
1125 Woodla^vn South Bend 16, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTIL\NTS JOHN W. BRENN.VN ASD ROME DUG.VN. 

G. P. SCHILDER, a product of the mechanical engineering department^ has developed four air­planes that positively \v-on*t fly. Tliey are trainers —constructed of steel plate and resting on beams sunk into a concrete foundation—used for teaching firemen how to handle crashes. G. P. is employed in the equipment laboratory* at the Wright Air Development Center, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio, and was project engineer on the train­ers. Ife now lives at 605 Corona Ave., Dayton, Ohio. 
109 0 Louis F. Buckley 
• ^^ " 1253 North Central Avenue 

'V Chicai^o 51, Ulinois 
REUNION REGISTR^VNT 
J. PATRICK CANNY. 

The Class of '28 lost one of its distinguished members in the death of DR. ARTHUR STENIUS on May 24 in Detroit. Art, who was born in Sweden, was head of Wayne University's Audio-Visual ^^ateriaIs Consultation Bureau and a recog­nized authority on audio-x'isual education. He wrote extensively on the subject and studied in 10 Eiiropean countries. 
He had been ill for almost two years with cancer and had lost his leg at the hip in March. He was back at work and driving his car before a month had passed and continued his activities until a few weeks before his death, after cancer had in­\'adcd both lungs. 
Art is 5ur\*ived by his wife and tw*o children, ages 13 and 10. His brother, George Seaton, Hol-Ipvood director, recently won an Academy A^*i*ard 
for the film "Country Girl." 
Art was very interested in the class and pre­pared script to be used at our reunion in connec­tion with a sound film. We intend to use it for our 30th reunion in 1958. 
Art was also the one who adx'iscd me of his roommate JOHN LEITZINGER's fine large family and the death of his roommate FR^VNK STROHM. 
I wish to thank WALT L/VYNE, LOU NOR­MAN and BILL JONES for sending me ch'ppings on Art's death. WALT LAYNE is Editor of the ''Nfasler Detective" magazine. 
ED QUINN advises that his old roommate AfAURICE SONDERNL\N died in August of 
i-cancer in Shelby, Ind. "Sonny" was formerly pres­ident of a Shelby furniture manufacturing com­pany. He is sur\'ivcd by a wife and two grown children. 
I wish to extend o>ur sympathy to BILL PLU­CHEL, who lost his only brother recently. Bill, 'who is director of mail, and express for Trans­^Vorld .-Virlines, had an audience with the Holy Father this year. 
Congratulations to FRANK J. DONOV^VN on his receipt of the 1955 Man-of-the-Vear-award from the Muskegon, Mich., NT) Club, and to JOHN ROBINSON and CARL PETTERSCH, who re­ceived similar awards from the New Haven, Conn.y ND Club. 
I noted articles recently by several '28 men. JOE BREIG> our most prolific writer with articles in almost every magazine I read, had the honor 
^ of haWng the Catholic Literary Foundation select his latest book, "Life With My Mary," as its August selection. The story of his 25 years of marriage is Joe's seventh book. 
FATHER FITZGER/VLD's article on "Power 

Struggle at Hell's Canyon," which appeared in 
"America" on May 21, 1955, was reprinted in the 
Congressional Record on June 7. 
I noted an article in "The Catholic Mind" for August 1955 by AL FRANTZ on "Automation and Catholic Social Thought." Al, who is judge of the District Court in Denver, delivered an address on this subject at the convention of the Colorado Knights of Columbus. 
A business trip to BufTalo gave me an opportu­nity to see several classmates. I met BERNIE BIRD, deputy treasurer of Erie County, accident­ally while ^valking from my hotel to a meeting. Bemic, who served as treasurer of the City of Buffalo from 1949 to 1954, is very active in Re­publican politics. He has a son at Canisius Col­lege and another in high school. 
I had a good dinner session with MARTY RYAN, who h still a bachelor and is with the Railway Express. GUS JENKINS, Vice-President of Dun Welding Company, and one of the owners of the Ainv-ays Hotel at the Buffalo Airport, joined us later. 
Gus stopped recently to see ART SL/\VIN at his nursery in Elbridge, N. Y. Gus reports that DON CORBETT's son roomed with his son at Notre Dame. Don is an attorney in Rochester and was a member of the state legislature a few years ago. Gus sees DICK GREEN in Syracuse. Dick is with the Grouse Hinds Corporation there doing electrical experimental work. 
While in Buffalo, I stopped in at the Buffalo Courier-Express uherc GORDON BENNETT is secretary and assistant business manager. Gordon has four sons, the oldest being a senior at ND. 
I had a session with BILL DOWDALL, who is president of the Federal Market Company, a retail meat market chain. I was pleased to hear that Bill's daughter's heart operation, performed by DR. HUFNAGEL, '37, in Washington, D. C, was vcr>* successful. My grandson has a similar heart condition, 50 Bill and I exchanged medical notes. Bill's daughter is now attending the Uni­versity of Buffalo and his son is a freshman at Notre Dame. 
While in Washington, BILL DOWT)ALL \-isited BILL JONES, who sen'ed as chairman of the Administrative Law Section of the District of Co­lumbia Bar .\ssociation last year and is now a member of the Board of Directors of the Bar As­sociation for the District of Columbia. • 
I stopped in Peoria for a visit with JOE LANG­TON, who is vice-president and treasurer of Cum­mins and Emerson. They deal in wholesale auto­mobile parts. Joe, who has two daughters and a son, is secretary of the Peoria Notre Dame Club. 
Joe mentioned that BILL MURPHY had visited 
him this summer. 
AL GURY, who owns the Illinois Valley Awning' 

and Tent Company in Peoria, was out of town 
^vhcn I was there. AI, who has a son four years 
of age, is also vice-president of the G & G Dis­
tributors, Inc. AI is Faithful Navigator, 4th De­
gree Knights of Columbus and is chairman of the 
Zoning Board of Appeals in Peoria. 
DR. DAN BRADLEY reports that his shotving of the class reunion film was a terrific success. ED BRENNAN and JOE KISSLING were present for the affair. Dan tells me that JACK LAVEIXE spoke at a Communion breakfast given by the Catholic Physicians Guild of Nassau and Suffolk Counties which Dan helped to oiganize and of which he is the first president. It is my imder­standing that Dan is president of the Medical Board and chief of the Pediatric Service in a new Catholic hospital near Amityville, N. Y. 
It is a pleasure to be ;^[e to give you news about a number of classmates whose names have not appeared in this column for years. 
TOM LAVELLE tells me that JOE DORAN— of the Kirby and Doran team—and his wife visited in Anderson recently. Joe is still with Sears and lives at 333 W. Harrison Ave., \Vheaton, III. He is national retail sales manager in the farm fence department. Joe is married and has one adopted daughter. 
TOM LAVELLE, as you know, U president of the Lavelle Gray Iron Foundry Corporation in An­derson. Ind. He hai five children, ages 3 to 12. I am indebted to Tom for information about JOE DORAN as several classmates have recently in­quired about him, including FRANK DONOV.AN and TURK MEINERT. 
ED RAFTER adrises that AL WALZER is a huyer in the plumbing di^-ision of Montgomery ^Vard & Company in Chicago. AI has a son at Knox College and a daughter in high school. 
JOHN LEITZINGER, who had inqm'red about AL WALZER, wTote that PHIL LYTLE under­went a successful cataract operation this summer. Phil is still single and is an industrial engineer u'ith the Pennsylvania Electric Company, Mcad-Wlle, Pa, John reports that his six boys and five girls arc all O.K. 
ED CARRINGER is a partner in the Assodated Building Specialty Company and has an insurance 3genc>' in Jackson, Mich. 
GEORGE BYRNE is a supervisor in the struc­tural department of Foster IVheeler Corporation in New York City. The firm designs and manufactures power plants, oil and chemical plants. He has three children ages 12 to 15. George lives in Levittown, Long Island, X. Y. 
ST. LOUIS—^Alumni line-up at the picnic table include {left to right): Tom McGuirc, Dan Sullivan, Norm Mueller and Bill Rnoff* Tbi$ is an annual club event. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December^ 1955 41 
Ralph Guglielmi, '55, Notre Dame's AII-American quarterback and now with the Washing­ton Redskins, signed for a 13-week advertising series over the University's new station l^NDU-TV, Channel 46 as representative of his company's product, Gugliehni's Italian Dressing. Left to right: AVm. T. Hamilton, sales mgr., "VWDIJ-TV; Guglielmi; Louis C. Murphy, '33, general manager of the Guglielmi Co.; and Jack Gordon, '42, food distributor. 
JOHN T. SCH.\frrZ is with ihc Orcgon-U'asli­inglon-Califomia Pear Bureau and is located at 
Aiianta, Ga. He is in sales promotion work on 
fresh pears in the states of Alabama, Ccorgta, 
North and South Carolina and Florida. John's 
daughter was graduated from Beloit College in 
1953. 
BOB AfADDEN, who was t^'ith our class In 

1924-25, is city freiglit agent for the Northern 
Pacific Railway Company in Minneapolis. Bob has 
three children. He reports that E. A. KINSEY 
lives at 303 Murphy, Sebastapol, Calif. 
SYLVESTER N. MOBILY, who lives in Brecks­

vtllc, Ohio, is a pharmacist and manager of the 
Standard Drug Store, East I3Ist and ^lUcs, in 
Cleveland. His first wife died in 1942. He re­married in 1952. Sylvester has three children, ages 14 to 26. and one grandcliild. 
FRED RUIZ reports from Lajolla, Calif., that L£S HEGELE is rounding out his first year as associate editor oF the Southern Cross, his diocesan paper, Fred, w'ho leaclics in high scliool in San Diego, California, now has four grandchildren. He celebrated his silver wedding anniversar>' in June. 
LES HEGELE went to the Southern Cross in a "straight player deal'* with the Union-Tribune PubVtshins Company of San Diego; at the same time Hegele left his post as nc^^'S editor of the San Diego Evening Tribune, AVALTER STEFFEN, *40, former Southern Cross associate editor, took over as editor of the Sunday Leisure and Fine Arts section of tlie San Diego Union. 
BOB WARD, who is still single, is practicing law in his home town of Marshall, Midi. HAR­OLD E. STEINBACHER, '30, is one of the Cir­cuit Judges in Bob's circuit. 
JOHN BUSCHEMEYER is administrator of the Louisx-ille General Hospital. He has three children, the oldest a senior at Ursuline College. John is president of the Kentucky* State Hospital Asso­ciation. • 
GERALD LUD^\^G of Kalamazoo, is chief en­gineer u-ith the Latex Compounders, Inc. of School­craft, ^ficli. His son is a freshman at ND this year, and he has a younger daughter. 
ART SCHEBERLE of Oak Park, Mrch., is a de­signer w^th the Detroit Edison Company in De­troit, Art is single. He is a representative of the Executive Board of the Federated Pronnces of the Third Order of St. Francis in the U. S. and Canada. 
FRANK BRANSON, executive assistant of the National Confectioner's Association, lives in Oak Park, Til. He has three children, ages 10 to 17. His oldest boy is a midshipman in the 4th class at the U. S. Naval Academy at Annapolis^ 
EUGENE SCHILTZ is in the coal, heating equipment and oil business in Newark, N. Y., u-ith his son. His secondary interests are income tax accounting and real estate. ' Eugene has three children. 
JOSEPH BRAUNSDORF visited his brother-in­law, JIM BERRY, in Stanley, N. Y., on his 460­acrc farm. Jim has four diildren. The oldest is 
teaciiing in Lyons, N. Y. JOE BRAUNSDORF 
is district engineer for the Indiana & Micliigan 
Eiectric Company. He has one son. 
GEORGE SARGUS \-isited DON BUTLER in 

Phoenix. It is the first I have heard about Don 
since he was wiih us in Freshman Hall. 
Tlie lawTcrs will be interested in knowing that 
ED DEAS's brother, Paul, was made dean of 
the Georgetown La^v School in 1954. 
JOE DEBOTT reports that he saw TOM CANTY, who has a daughter at St. ^tarJ''s of Notre Dame. JOE DEBOTT is now assistant cashier, Genev'a Federal Savings & Loan Associa­tion in Gcnex-a, N. Y. I noticed TOM MAHON's picture in a recent issue of Columbia. He has been re-elected State Deputy of the Knights of Columbia in'Minnesota. 
DR. FR^VNCIS W. FORD is practicing raedidnc now in Billings, Mont. He received his M.D, degree from Tufts Medical School and did post­graduate work in surgery* at Northwestern Univer­sity from 1948 to J952. Frank has three children, ages 7 to 14. 
He mentioned that he saw CHARLES ROSS of Anthien, N, D., and he informed Frank that his brother, LEAVIS ROSS, was killed in a car ac­cident about three years ago. 
^\•ILLIAM F. BROWN, JR., is secretary and business manager and acting superintendent of scliools in Orange, N. J. "Wee" received his LL.B. from Rutgers l^w School in 1933. His son, who ^vas graduated from Princeton University in June, is now in the armed services in Western Germany. Bill is also vice-president of Brehg Ssies Corp., manufacturing representatives. He celebrates his 25th wedding anniversary December 28^ one day after JOE S. MORRISSEY and one day before mine. 
Speakini; of wedding anniversaries reminds me that HENRY >fASSMAN celebrates his October 
15. BOB NICHELLS November 1. CHRISTIE FLANAGAN November 24 and RON RICH Sep­tember 30. 
ANDY KANE is attorney and senior clerk for the City of Boston. Andy, who was with our class for two years, received his LL.B. degree from Boston University in 1929. 
JOE NORTON U head of staff electrical en^­neers for design and construction at Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Co., South Charleston, W. Va. Joe has two sons, a^cs 17 and 23. Joe also cele­brates his silver wedding anniversary this year. 
"BERNIE" SCHUH is property administrator with the Na\T Department in Fort Wayne, Ind. He has one child. 
ED FINN, who is manager of the Golden Rule Mercantile Co. in Salida, Colo., reports the death of FRANCIS (BUD) l«NSLOU^ of Gunnison. Colo., late in the fall of 1954. Bud was a Fresh­man "Day Dog" with our class in 1924. 
GREG HOLBROCK, who was with our class in 1924-25, is an attorney in Hamilton, Ohio. Greg finished his undergraduate work at Xavier Univer­sity and received a law degree from the Univer­sity of Cincinnati. He i*'as a member of the U. S. House of Representatives in 1941 and 1942. He : served as a presidential elector in Ohio in 1948 * ' and has been county cliairman of the Democratic Executive Committee since 1949. Greg is married ; and has three children, ages 10 to 14. 
He reports that CLEM PATER practices law 

on the same floor with him and has done 50 for 
over 24 years. 
JOHN HERBERT reports that JOHN Mc-
MANMON is conducting a nursery business on . 
the Lowell-Laurence Highway in Massachusetts. 
John saw Mac recently as he was directing a 
crew of workers doing the landscaping at St. 
Joseph's Hospital in ^oslcn. 
WALLACE MacDONALD is assistant treasurer 
of the Hartford Gas Co. Wallace has five children. . 
HOAME PHALIN saw "MICKY" FLANAGAN 
at the airport in Scranton. He is practicing law 
in Pittston, Pa., and is still single. 
Florence Gallagher (Miss Chicago and third in . ; 
the nation in the contest for Miss America) js the \ 
daughter of JIGGS GALLAGHER, who was with 
us at Notre Dame and played on the K. of C. 
basketball team. She was Howie Phalin's secre­
tary for two years. Howie, as you know, is now 
vice-president of Field Enterprises, Inc. 
JUDGE JOHN LYONS tells me that DAVID AfcCRfVCKEN of River Forest, III., is employed with the Illinois Secretary of State. GEORGE CRA\'EN is a practicing attorney in Chicago. Judge Lyons is now hearing ci\*il Jury cases as judcc of Superior Court of Cook County. 
BILL O'HARA is with the Connecticut Pouer 
Company in Middletown. Bill, who lives in Man­
chester. Conn., has two children, ages 16 and 21. 
LARRY CULLTNEY saw GENE (RED) MOR­
lARTY in bis own insurance company in ^Vi^i­
niantic. Conn. 
I wish to express our s:>Tnpathy to KENNETH y 
POWER on the death of his father on June 25.' 
1955, Kenneth, who is deputy county clerk and 
deputy- supreme court clerk in Rochester, was re­
cently elected to membership in the State Com­
mittee of the New York Republican Party. 
ROGER BRESLIN reports that TOM PUR­CELL, who lives in Bclmar. N. J., practices law in New York City. HENRY CLEMENT is a lawyer and magistrate of Plainficld. N. J. Roger's broth er-in-la\c. JACK AVINGERTER, is still with Louis DcRochmont. Roger practices law in Kack­cnsack, N. Y., has five children, ages 8 to 18. Roger also advises me that RUSSELL RILEY js mavor of Orange. N. L 
According to JOHN ROBINSON, JAMES E. HAYES died several years ago while liWng in NCTV York. Jim received his A.E. with us in 1928 and Was from New Britain, Conn. Can an>'one give me more particulars on Jim's death? John, jf as you know, is headmaster of the Robinson School. 18 Hiehland St.. West Hartford. Conn. He has five children of his own. ages 8 to 18. 
BILL JONES. In a Chicago luncheon session with JIM ALL.\N and mc. mentioned that JERRY RfViUURN is a safety enszinrer with the Hcrlihy Construction Comnany and is now workinn on the Staten Tsland-Brookland tunnel in New York. Jim was recently appointed manager of the Work­men's Compensation Claim Department for Lum­bcrmans Mutual Casualty Co. in Chicago. 
As far as I have been able to determine, only two classmates became fathers during the past year. JOE GRIFFIN had a son this year. He now has five children, ages one to 16. Joe is a partner in the law firm of Hcnshaw, Culbertson. Mocl­mann and Hoban in Chicago. He also is a lec­turer at DePaul College of law. DR. BERNIE CROWXEY had his first child a year ago. Bemie \ is assistant chief of dentistry at the V.A. center in Wichita, Kans. I was sorr>* to hear of the death of Bemie's brother recently. 
J. HARVEY DALY has twin daughters, 17 months old. Harvey established his own firm of management consultants recently in Washington, 
D. C. How about a report on later births by classmates? 
I understand that BOB GRANT is teaching a class in legislation at the Notre Dame Law School this year. 
Several of our classmates have daughters who recently entered a convent. Tlie oldest of AL DA\nS' six cliildren is a novice with the Sister Scr\*ants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary. BILL BROWN of >filu-aukee and Epworth, Iowa, has a daughter. Sister Mary Gregoria, O.P., at St. Clara's Convent, Stnsinnawa, Wis, ^ 
According to my latest returns, BOB AL\DDEN f has the most grandcliildren with sue. JOE DOYLE and FRED RUIZ are close seconds ^vith four each. ED QUINN, ANTHONY DISTIF.ANO, 
42 Notre Dame AlumnttSj November-December, 1955 
ED McCLARNOiV, JOHN LAHEY each have three grandchildren. JOE NORTON and your i class secretary have two and the following ha\-e one grandchild each: SYLVESTER MOBILY, BILL MAHON, FRANK HOLDAMPF, BILLY WOOD, FRANK DONOV^VN, JOHN &\RROLL, CHRISTIE FLANNAGAN and JOE BREIG. Please bring me up to date on these Wtal statistics. 
VINCE WALSH tells me he took FATHER JIM McSHANE, S.J., tt> Notre Dame this sum­mer where he said a Mass for the Class of '28 in the basement chapel. FATHER ANDY MUL­REANY, C.S.C., also offered a Mass for the class in June. They will each offer Masses for the deceased members of the class in November, 
FRANK CREADON reports the following at­tended the ND-So. ^fcthodist game: JACK lA-VELLE, JERRY DeCLERCQ, R»VY MULLIG,\N, ART KORZEN. JOHN CARROLL, DICK PHE­L,\N, BILL KE/\RNEY, JOHN AfcSORLEY and 

, MIKE RICKS. 
•^ Incidentally, our president, FRANK CREADON, was appointed insurance consultant with the Met­ropolitan Life Insurance Co. Frank is also active in the American Mosquito Control Association. He is advertising manager of the ^fosquito News and is chairman of the Illinois Legislative Com­mittee of the tVssociation. 
Our classmate, FATHER GEORGE P. BEN­AGLIA, C.S.C., is now president of King's Col­lege. Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Father George served as president of Stonehill College in 1948-49 and as superior of the Seminary- of Our Ladv of Holy Cross, 1943-1949. 
On the basis of reports received from my Sep­tember mailing, the following classmates have sons at the colleges indicated: Notre Dame: JOHN CULLKN, BILL DOWDALL, WLLIAM Mc-GEE. HAYES MURPHY, AL SCHNURR. RON 

t, RICH, PETE GALLAGHER, GERj\LD LUDWIG, GORDON BENNETT, JOHN LEITZINGER, DICK PHEL,\N, MARCUS FARRELL, FRANCIS SCHROEDER, BOB GR^VHAM, JOHN WOULFE, CHARLES SCHUESSLER, ED NfcCURNON, TOM BYRNE and ROGER BRESLIN; Indiana University: GEORGE BE.AMER and MIKE HO­GAN; St. Louis University: ED DE;VN; Dart­mrailh: IU\LPH NOLj\N; John Carroll College; RAY LUSSON; Purdue: RON RICH; Reed Col­lege: BILL MAHIX; Universitv of Pennsylvania: BILL .\f.\HIN; U. S. Naval Academy: FRttNCIS BR,\NSON; U. S. iferchant Marine Acadcmv: CHARLEY SHEI.ANSKEY; Potsdam (N. Y.) State Teachers College: CHARLEY SHEL,UCS­KEY; Michigan State: DON R<VU: Marquette: JOE NORTON; St. Joseph's College: JOHN RICKORD and JERRY DeCLERCQ; Northern ; Illinois State College: JOHN L.AHEY; University 
!. \ of Miami: FRANK DONOVAN; University of Connecticut: WALL.\CE McDONALD; Canisius College: BERNIE BIRD; University of Rochester: KENNETH POWER; Universitv of Iowa: BILL KIRWAN; Georgetown: HERBERT ifcCABE; Uni­versity of Micliigan: ERNEST RIEDER. 
Classmates have daughters at the following col­leges: St. Mary's. Notre Dame: JOHN WOULFE, AL DA\aS, TOM CANTY and BILL McGEE; Universitv of Buffalo: BILL DOWDALL; Trinitv College: ED DUFFY; Marquette: JOHN FON­TANA; Queens: BOB HAXflLTON; Robert Mor­ris School: FRANK HEGARTY; University of lon-a: BILL KIRW,\N: Purdue: FR^VNK MEYER; Ursuline College: JOHN BUSCHE.\IEYER; Skid-more: EUGENE SCHILTZ; Radcliffc: ANDY K,\NE; Oneonta Slate Teachers College: ED BRENNAN: Colby College: WILLI.Wf F. BROWN; St. Rose Collcce: ED SfcCLARNON; 
i Rosary: FR,WK CRE,\DON; Sienna Heiehu;: JERRY DeCLERCQ: Penn State: JOHN LEFTZ­INGER; Marjorie Webster Junior College: JOHN ROBINSON: University of Southern California: FRED RUIZ. 
Thanks for the excellent cooperation given your class secretary' as the result of my last mailing. I am grateful to JIM ALLAN and BILL KIR­WAN for picking up the check for the whole mailing and printing costs. 
I trust the few who failed to complete the forms for biographical data and news will do so at once, so my incomplete report in this issue will be fupplemented by your response in the next issue. 
My reporter, ED RiVFTER, adv-ises that BER­NIE CONDON is the fashion supervisor at the Harlem Avenue Scars store in Chicago. Bernie is married. He also reported that JIM QUIGLEY 
( who is an artist in Chicago, just returned from 
''^. Europe. Jim lives at the Alexandria Hotel in Chicago and is single. Ed tells me that HAL REYNOLDS has returned to Chicago where he practices law after completing a Washington as­signment. Hal, by the ivay, became a father for the first time recently. 
Pulitzer prize winner EDWARD J. MOWERY has joined the New York Herald Tribune staff. Reporter Ed won the coveted journalism award in 1953 for his efforts in vindicating a man WTongly convicted of murder. 
Congratulations are also in order, though some­what belated, for A. F. DAVIS, recently pro­moted to director of engineering and manufactur­ing for the Diesel Equipment Division of General Motors. Al's new post required a family move­ment to Grand Rapids. HANK WOLTERS, '30, is plant engineer for the G.M. division there. 
192 9 ''^.°°3ld J. Plunkett 
Biology Department Notre Dame, Indiana 

REUNION REGISTRANTS JOE FRIEL, JOE LENIHiW, GEORGE McDON-NELL. JOHN F, .\rcL.\UGHLIN, W. E. O'REIL­
LY AND OLIVER F. SCHELL. Tlirough a typographical error, the ALUMNUS recently carried a death notice regarding George 
C. Ruane. It should have read GEORGE C. ROW,\N. 
LOUIS F. NEIZER, Fort Wayne attorney and trustee of Our Sunday \Tsitor, was named Scrra International treasurer at the group's convention in Boston this summer. 
19? n Devere Plunkett 
• ^'• " O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTRiVN-TS JOE ABBOTT, T. J. ABEL, ANDY AMAN, FRANK X. AMATO, ED ARTHUR, WILLLAM BXMBRICK, DICK BLOO.M, AUGUST L. BONDI, K,\RL BRENNAN, WLLLVM BRO­.MANN, THOMAS M. BROWN, JIM BURKE, JOE BUTLER, DAN (i\NNON, JACK aVNNON, CON QVREY, LOUIS CHAPLErW, ED CON­NOR, BERNARD W. CONROY, EDWARD G. CONROY, PATRICK J. CONWAY, GORDAN COPPS, ED CRONLV, L^iRRY CRONIN, JLM DEELY, EDWARD F. DONOHOE, CLARENCE DONOVAN, GEORGE E. DOYLE, J. F. DRIS­COLL, JR., CHARLIE DUFFY, LEO DUR-LtVCHER, FR/kNK C, E,VTON, ROBERT EGGE­^L\N, JACK ELDER, L. F. ENRIGHT, AR­
THUR ERR,\, PAUL FAR.MER, JAMES E. FAV­RET, EDWARD G. FE.VNELL, F. A. FINK, JACK FLL\N, JERRY FOLEY, HARRY FRAN­CIS, JI.M FRIEL, THOMAS W. FROST, AR­THUR GALLiVGHER, HUGH GALL,VGHER, HARVEY GAUTHIER, JOHN GIBBONS, JOHN 
D. GOLDEN, CARL GRUNING, GAYLORD HA;VS, JAMES W. HALLIG.AN, WILLIAM S. HALLISEY, EDWARD W. HALLOR:\N, HAR­OLD P. HANLON, GER,\LD F. ILXRRINGTON, JOHN P. HARRINGTON, LOUIS HASLEY, JOHN F. HEALY, PAUL C. HEIDKAMP, GEORGE HEINEMAN, JOE HENNESSY, FRANK HETREED. JOHN E. HIGGINS, ROYAL HIG­GINS, TIMOTHY K. HINCHEY, HENRY HIN-SENKAJfP, JOHN HOFFMAIW, JERO.ME P. HOLLAND, BOB HOLMES, JAMES D. IR^VIN, .MARSHALL KAIZER, TOM KEEGAN, JOSEPH 
P. KELLY, THOMAS KENNEALLY, LEO KEN­NELLY, THOM « J. KERRIGAN, GIL KIR­WAN, CHARLES F. KLEFEKER, PAUL KLEIS­ER, CLARENCE J. KOZAK, ROBERT J. KUHN, BAYARD KURTH, WALTER LANGFORD, FRANCIS R. LANGRILL, THOMAS F. LANTRY, 
T. G. LA^VLER, JAMES C. LEAHY, JAMES E. LEAHY, CHARLES F. LEN^NON, FRED W. LENSING, ARNOLD R, LEVANDOSKI, NOR­MAN ULLIG, ANDREW L. LOVE, JOHN E. 
MCCARTHY, ^VILLIAM j . MCCARTHY, E D MC­CLALLEN. VINCENT J. McCUE, JA.MES E. Mc-DERSIOTT, JIM MCDONALD, ROBERT L. MC­DONALD , THOMAS McDOUGAL, HAD MANSKE, V. J. iURTZELL, TOM MEDLAND, FRAN MESSICK, \VILLIAM H. MILLER, AL MONTI, R. T, .MOORE, JOHN T. .MORAN, JOHN V. MORAN, EDMUND L. MORRISSEY, JOHN E. .MOTZ, ED J. NEBEL, JOHN J. O'DONTJELL, GEORGE F. 0'^LALLEY, WAL­TER R. O'MALLEY, TIERNEY O'ROURKE, JEROME PARKER, FRED PEAK, ARTHUR E. PETERSEN, DEVERE T. PLUNTCETT, GIL PRENDERGAST, DR. PRIL PROVISSIERO, JOHN J. QUINN, EUGENE A. RAYMOND, FRANCIS T. READY, •JMLLIA.M REAUME, JOHN REDG.ATE, EDWARD J. REDMOND, BILL REI­SERT, ARTHUR REYNIERS, JOHN T. ROCAP, CHUCK ROHR, JOHN H. RONEY, V. B. ROSEWARNE, JOSEPH RUPPE, JOE RY.AN, RICHARD J. S.AVAGE, LEO J. SCANION, DON SCHETTIG, WALTER J. SCHOLAND, FRED SCHOPPMAN, D. C. SHAUGHNESSY, DR. JA.MES SHEEHY, BILL SHER.MAN, AL­BERT J. SHIPACrVSSE, J.ACK SIGLER, SA.M­UEL F, SILVESTRO, BUCK SLACK, HOWARD 
B. SLAVIN, E. E. SLICK, ROBERT V. SLOAN, CHARLIE S.MALLWOOD, FR.ANK J. SOWA, HAROLD STEINBACHER, LOUIS STETTLER, RUDY STUR.M, DONALD D. SULLIV,\N, JIM SULLI\^\N, RICHARD SULLIV,\N, TIM TOO­MEY, REV. RAYMOND TOTTEN, EMERICK TR.ANDEL, .MALCO.M TRO.MBLEY, HARLEY R. 
TRurrr, JOHN D. VOSS, BILL WALSH, E.MIL 
R. WALTER, DR. .MATTHEW P. WARD, GEORGE P. WEBER, IC\RL R. WEIGAND, GEORGE WINKLER, HENRY H. WELTERS, JOHN D. YELLAND, ED YORKE and BOB ZEIS. 
As proof that Notre Dame men may meet almost anj-ivhcre, there's this story of two Joes in Lisbon. One, JOE APODACA, is director of public relations for General Motors in Argentina; the other, JOE G.ALLAGHER, "44, is in ftivate 
Eleven men of '33 gathered at South Bend's Volcano Restaurant over the 20th Reunion weekend for a not-quite-stag party. They are (left to right) Neil Farrell, Tom Owen, Jerry Foley, Kay Belle Doyle (Mrs. Gerry D.), Phil Purcell, Bill Keefe, Bob Simmons, Bill Farrell, Xomi Fredericks, Bill Murtha, Tom Flynn and Gerry Doylc. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 19S5 43 
BERNARD BOWLING, '44 
Bernard Bowling, '44, owner and operator of Plehn's Bakery in Louis­ville, Ky., was elected president of the Associated Retail Bakers of America at the organization's recent convention in Miami Beach. 
Previously he had served as president of the Louisville and the Kentucky Bakers Associations and as a director of the national association. 
Bemie majored in Civil Engineering while at Notre Dame and spends his spare time working with the family's contracting business. 
Quite tlie family man, he is the father of six children. 
law practice in New York. Each was \*acationing in Europe. Each was dining at a Lisbon res­taurant. Each had American and Portuguese flags at his table. Each toasted Old Glory. That was when each discovered the other was from KD, This old orb gets smaller by the minute. 
FRANK X. O'NEIL of 6133 Myrtle Ave., North Long Beach, Calif., is another overseas traveler, accompanied by his %%-ife and daughter on a jaunt to ^Vaikiki in September. The 0*Neils won the free trip in the Von Grocery Company's "Hawaii­an Holiday*' contest and appeared on Horace Heidt's coast-to-coast teleWsion show. 
Back in the states, two other Notre Dame and General Alotors men found tliemselves reunited. 
H. H. ^VOLTERS was promoted in May to plant engineer for G.M.'s Diesel Equipment DiWsion in Grand Rapids. Meanwhile A. F. DAVIS, *28, as­sumed directorship of engineering and manufactur­ing at the Grand Rapids plant. Hank and Al were both Detroiters before their respective pro­motions. 
DR. JAMES A. REYNIERS of Notre Dame's LOBUND laboratories, was one of 12 nationally knou*n leaders In the veterinary medicine and pub­lic health field to reccix-e special Centennial Awards from Michigan State College in June. TIic awards 
•were conferred for ''outstanding contributions to society, for achieving distinction in their endeavors and' for setting the highest standards of accom­plishment." 
If DR. FRANCIS J. HAND has college on the brain, it's no wonder. Frank's son David is en-

roiled at Notre Dame, daughter Ellen is at New Rochellc, daughter Dorothy will enter college next year and then, concludes Frank, "two more to go," 
fieumon 
James T. Doyle 

1931 
902 Oakfon Street Evanston, Illinois 

The 1931 column in the last issue of ALUMNUS was a bit on the barren side. Due to circum­stances beyond my control about the time of the May 20 deadline, I was unable to forward any news for the recent issue. 
However, most of you apparently felt that I needed a rest as I ha*'c not received any com­plaints. Actually I thought it might spur a few of you into complaining and sending some dope. ­
The most important thing to talk about first, last and always for the next eight months will be the TWENTY-FIFTH REUNION of the CLASS OF 1931 whicli will probably be held June 8-10 of next year. 
Many of you have indicated that you will be present. However, it would be helpful if ever>'one would send a card or letter, preferably with some ncu*:. so that the names of those planning on at­tending can be published in each issue of ALUM­NUS. 
A group of Chicago *31 men are planning a meeting in early October to start the ball rolling. Many of you in \-arious sections of the country- will be called upon for active help just as soon as a promotional program is decided upon. 
Another item which will assume increasing im­portance as time goes on U the MASS AND RE­UNION FUND. Get on the wagon and send a contribution if you have not already done so. Recent contributions were received from JIM MULVANEY, NICK BOHLING, GENE VALLEE, FRANK SEWARD, GIL SEAMAN and BUD TOUHY, Mass offerings have been sent to the families of HAROLD J. O'CONNOR, FRANK DITTOE, JOE GAVIN and CHARLEY SCHMIED. This is one of the finest things our class can do, and it is the duty of each of us to support this worthy program. 
Jfaric XfcQuaid, wife of JIM McQUAID of Vincenncs WTOte last month telling of his new Drive-In Magazine Rack. 
"Jim has asked me to write you of our change of address. We have moved and Jim likes his new place \-cry much. Tlie building was an un­€>ccupied filling station which we converted to a shop for him. It is ver>- convenient and the walk­ing and driving trafiic is much greater than at the other place, so say a little prayer that the move may prove beneficial in all ways, for him. 
*'The other day Jim was looking out the wn­dow and w*lio should he sec but JACK ELDER, who came for dinner that night, and for once I must say, I hardly said a word, but sat en­tranced with their conversation of recalling th ^ days at Notre Dame . . . starting back in the '20's and '30's. .. . It was a wonderful evening. 
"However, even though I. admire Jack and hu athletic background, to me his most wonderful honor is being the father of nine wonderful chil­dren. He and his wife Kay should be very proud of that honor. Believe me, it w*as an evening which we hated to see come to an end, and now 1 am looking forward to meeting Kay Elder, as Jack has promised to bring her down soon. 
*'We had a visit from another ND man, JOHN PETTY, who was stationed at Dcarby George Field during World War II and whom we met at that time. 
"Willie at the Layman's Retreat this past August I had much time to \Tsit with VAN WALLACE and WALT DUPRAY, both from Mt. Clemens, Mich. Van is alway-s an inspiration to the other men attending the Retreat. His smile and wonderful acceptance of the cross which the good Lord has given him make him truly one of God's citoscn people. Walt Dupray brought his • wife down, so she and I did the campus while \ the men polished their halos. ~ f 
'*Jim and I arc going up to the Na^y game this • October and will be In the usual place, on the j armchair platform, so we will be happy to see any of Our friends who might be there. 
"Please remember us to your wife, and Jim joins in sending greetings to classmates." 
It is alwa>-s wonderful to get a letter Srom the ^^cQuaIds. Be sure to remember Jim with your subscription business at home or office. If Jim .­can get a note to me occasionally, how about a . few others doing it? 
EDDIE RYAN had a Wslt from NICK BOHL­ING, genial Chicago Alderman and Republican '. prod In our independent Council, and his wife at ': Eagle River this summer. 
BERT MALONEY and his family were at the : Red Feather Lodge and managed to get in some ; golf with his campus pals. Bert plans on makingy | the Reunion. 
GIL SEAMAN did an excellent job chalrman-Ing the local club's Father and Son meeting for new freshmen, which was held early this month at the Chicago Athletic Club. 
I had a card from TOM ASHE, our Chicago ; luncheon guest of last November. . . . Unfor­ttinatcly he flew nonstop this trip and mis.<cd a visit to the campus and Chicago. His wife, Kathie. was recovering from a serious operation and Tom decided it was best to go straight through. I am hoping Tom will be one of the west coast operators on our reunion prot-ram. 
Thr Alumni office sent me a clipping and picture of ED McCLAN*NAN, JR.. who was appointed to the Rutland, Vt.. Nfunicipal Court in January*. AMBROSE STOEPT.ER was anoointcd Commis­sioner of Internal Revenue in Ohio. He lives in Mt. Washington, Cincinnati, and is the father of\^ four children-
JOHNNY BURNS corresponds with JIM MUL­VANEY and Jim In turn sends mc his letters, so now I have two Bums news specials on hand. His latest note was giving us the razz on our Wiite Sox this inimmer. 
John mentioned spending some time with the BILL KELLYs and RICHIE BARBER after his vacation. He said something about Barber still being the winner and I'll Icavp that for John to talk .ibout at the Reunion. TIM TOOMEY has relocated and is still in the insurance biLiiness. ED CUNTCINGHAM is located at Camp La Guar­dia for the present. 
John suggests that I get started on the reunion soon. To make a prompt and good start. John, vou will be one of the hoys to round up the New York area '3Icrs for next Junr. 
JOHN CARLTON SULLI\^\N sent a note from ! JIM RUDOLPH informing him that CHARLEY SCHMIED. Columbus. Wis., pxsscd away May 11. Charley played in the band and u-as an engi­neer. He is survived bv his widow, a married daughter and boy and girl twins, aged 13. 
Another shock was the tragic and sudden death of JOE GAVIN who was in the line of fire of a berserk gunman while visiting in one of the Day­ton, Ohio, banks May 31. 
As mentioned earlier, this is where your con­tributions to the Mass and Reunion Fund are spent. I remember Joe at our 20-year reunion in 1951 and he w-ill be sorely missed next year. Please remember them In your prayers. 
A few days after sending news la!!t March I re­ceived word of the death of HAROLD J. O'CON­NOR, Rockford, who had been in a local hospital . recuperating from pneumonia. This was a shock ^ to many of us in Chicago, who had seen him last November at a Chicago luncheon. I received lovely notes from Mrs. O'Connor and Mrs. Dittoe thank­ing the class for their Mass OfTerings. 
This summer I saw DR. TOM SABOW of Pittsburgh, who is a good friend of EARL BRIEGER. He told me that Tex had bought a new station wagon for a transcontinentaf trip this summer. I am sure that Tex managed to visit several of his campus pals, so I am looking for­ward to a letter soon. 
Our s>Tnpathy goes to VINCE PONIC in the loss of his father and wife during the past several months. 
TOM MONAHAN phoned while In Chicago on business last June. He \^•ilI be on hand for the Navy and Iowa games. ^^ 
M. CLAY ADAMS, who did such a fine job ^ on the *'VIctor>- at Sea" telecasts of a few years ago, is now assistant producer on the Sgt. Bilko program on CBS, starring Phil Silvers. Last June 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus^ November-December^ 1955 
'H 
I met the father of BOB, FRED and FITZ 

GORE, who was in Chicago to attend the funeral ' of one of his associates. He mentioned that the boys were w*cll and that Bob manages to spend one day cvcr>- week fishing on the ke>-s. \Ve can look forward to some tall stories from Bob next June.' Mr. Gore mentioned that the statewide Xotre Dame Alumni of Florida meeting held at the Sea Ranch was a huge success and will be held again next year. 
JIM GRIFFIN, safely co-ordinator for the 
board of education, looked very handsome in the 
Chicago Tribune as he was handing out safety 
awards to winners. 
The Alderman NICHOLAS J. BOHLING Gold 
Day was held Aug. 31 at the Southmoor Countrv 
Club. 
Mr. and Mrs. ALFRED C. STEFAN, JR., were 
invested as Knight and Lady of the Holy Sepulchre 
September 27 at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New 
York. 
BUD TOUHY sent an interesting letter with 
his contribution to the Mass Fund: 
"The lack of news on my part regarding *3Icrs 
has thus far delayed my dropping you a note, 
for I have long wanted to add my voice to the 
many which have already complimented you on 
the fine job you have been doing as class secre­
tary. I still lack news, but I did want to pass 
along the enclosed check for the Mass and Re­
union Fund, and at the same time tell you that I 
think you have really made ALUMNUS a real 
pleasure with your accounts of members of our 
class. 
*'t sec ED FLYNN regularly for he is wth 
Republic Aviation Corp., where I still hold forth 
as Director of Security*. He and I are both 
active in the activities of the recently formed ND 
Club of Long Island. To give us something more 
in common, w*e each have sons wc hope to sec 
start at Notre Dame a year from now. 
"Several months ago, while eating in the dining 
room of the Carlton Hotel, Washington, D. C, 
none other than JOE DEEB happened to have 
the next table. AVe had a brief, but enjoyable 
chat. He seems to be much happier in the pri< 
\'ate practice of law than he ^v•as as U. S. At­
torney for Southern Michigan.** 
JOHN BRODERICK reports that JOE DEEB 
has been appointed chairman of the Michigan 
State Board of Law Examiners by Gov. G. Mcnncn 
Williams, being nominated for the post by the 
Michigan Supreme court. 
"JOHN RYAN, ex-*33, is counsel and ^ice­

prcsidcnt of Republic, so I sec him practically 
evcr>' day. He has a son entering his sophomore 
year at XD. 
"I manage to speak over the phone ever>- year 

with BUS RICH and my old (said advisedly) room­
mate, BOB PENDERGAST, while I am changing 
trains or planes in Chicago en route to the West 
Coast. Some day we hope to be able to stage a 
minor reunion when I am in Chicago. 

"This about concludes my contacts from our class. Last month, while flying to Europe, 1 managed to sit next to EUGENE LYDON, '27, President of the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Co. of Chicago. He proved a great story teller, and as a result I never did get to sleep that night. 
"I am looking fonvard to next June and our 25th reunion. In the event I can be of any help to you on Long Island, do not hesitate to call upon me. Best wishes." 
From FATHER BOURKE MOTSETT: "Tlic Masses for Red O'Connor and Frank Dittoe will be sung before the first of June. May God have mcrc>' on their souls. I remember them both as fine fellows and I shall continue to remember them in my daily Masses. Thanks very much for send­ing these offerings to me. 
"t .am sorr>- to be late in sending these cards, but I was in Cincinnati for three days. The people have not got wise to me yet, and I am still plugging along—and I do mean plugging, as we are starting a drive for $150,000 today for the grade school and wc still have a debt of $200,000 on the high school; but Danville is boom­ing, so wc have great hopes. 
"Haven't heard from any of our classmates lately. Our local Notre Dame Club observed UND night and RALPH DALTON was re-elected treasurer of our Ahimni Club. JOHN BELTON is still a great help with our Boy Scout troop. 
"With kindest regards to all the members of our class. I hope to sec all of them at our Reunion next June.** 
Among the local *3I men attending UND night April 18 at the Sheraton were CARL CRONIN, TOM CONLEY, NICK BOHLING (he sure got in the act this issue), GENE VALLEE, JIM MULVANEY, AL STEPAN, RAY COLLINS, MARTIN DOUWEY, DON OTOOLE, BERT MET2GER, GIL SEAMAN, DON PARTLAND. FATHER HAROLD RILEY, superior of Holy Cross Seminary in 1931, was the principal speaker of the evening. 
FRANK SEWARD sent a note recently from 

Catholic University: *'I was reading your column 
tonight in the midst of correcting exams. Students 
arc still the same as >vhcn we were in school— 
some get A's, some flunk, and the rest are jn 
between. Just the faces change. And the kids 
arc always between 18 and 22. 
"Only the teachers get older, but I think 

being on campus all the time even slows that 
down. Last year one of my students found my 
picture in her father's '31 DOME. Of course, I 
threatened to flunk her if she ever brought it 
around here. 
"Here's a mite for the Mass Fund, and I'll prob­

ably sec you next year." 
Well men, if your sons and daughters tr>' to 

tell you school is difi"erent from the time you 
were there, here is the answer direct from the 
fecdbox. 
The Xferritt-Chapman & Scott Corporation has 

elected FRANK LEAHY vice-president for trade 
relations. Louis E. Wilson is president and board 
chairman of the firm. 
Breadwinners beware! A grim future for TV 

fans is predicted by DAN HALPIN, general sales 
manager for the Du^font Laboratories. Says 
Dan: "Inla\%-s and the maid, or both, may require 
the homeowners of the future to have three or four 
sets in his home." Wishful thinking? Two years 
ago he predicted that more and more homes would 
have two sets. Now 10 percent of American homes 
have a second receiver. 
"JUMPIN* " JOE SAVOLDI's son, Joe, Jr., has 

been named captain of the Michigan State track 
team. He's also rated a top decathlon candidate 
for the 1956 01>-mpics. 
After seven years as work unit conservationist in 

Washington County, Ky,, JOHN BAUER has 
resigned from the Soil Conservation Ser^'iccs, a 
branch of the Department of Agriculture, to re­
turn to the Moorman Feed Manufacturing Co. in 
Quincy, III. 
The Fort Lauderdale Daily News was the first place winner in the general excellence category of the National Editorial Association's "Better News­papers Contest for 1955." The NEA has a mem­bership of some 5200 newspapers and this year's prize winners represented 31 states. BOB GORE is treasurer of the Daily News. 
F. X. MURPHY finally got the prod from the last few issues of the ALUMNUS and came through with a note. It seems as though I was the last correspondent in October 1954. F. X. has a Marine son who was at Camp Pendleton who came out of boot camp the Honor INIan in his company. One of his girls is at school in Manitowoc and the younger one is still home to help. F. X. and Johnnie keep up to date on jive talk and jitterbugglng. He is sttll traveling the Pecos Valley and West Texas and asks for his bosom pal, RED O'CONNELL. I saw Red re­cently, a little grayer, but you can still hear him a block away. 
Let's all get cooking on the Reunion and get your reservation in early together with a check to help defray promotional expenses. I promise not to charge any expense accounts to this. 
Let me know whom you run Into at any of the football games. 
Full details of the start of the TWENTY-FIVE­YEAR REUNION of the CLASS of 1931 will be carried in the next ALUMNUS. Those of you w*ho will be selected as area chairmen will be expected to do a good job. 
Out of approximately 470 or so graduated, wc were able in 1941 to get about 240 of our class back [or that reunion. If you missed it then make up for it by being on campus next June. If you were there, I am sure no urging is neces­sary. 
19^ 9 James K. CoUins 
• ^^^ 3336 Kcnmore Road 
Shaker Heights, Ohio 10? ^ Joseph A. McCabc 
• ^^ ^ 632 Forest Avenue 
River Forest, HL 
REUNION REGISTRANT DAVID S. MADILL. 

I'm happy to be able to report that the boys have been much more diligent this time. Undoubt­edly it was because cver>'one is tired of hearing 
JOSEPH R. STEWART, '22 

The American Red Cross National Fund Chairman for the 1955-56 cam­paign is Joseph R. Stewart, '22, of Kansas City, Mo. 
An active member for 15 years, Joe Stewart has served the Red Cross in many capacities, including membership on the National Board of Governors and chairmanship o^ the 1952 national convention. 
He is a recognized authority on disaster operations. As president of the Kansas City-Jackson County chap­ter in 1951, he directed Red Cross operations during the big Hood. 
Stewart received his LL.B. from the University of Kansas City School of Law in 1925 and has been with the Kansas City Life Insurance Company 27 years. He has served as its associate general counsel since 1942. 
Joe is also a director of several com­panies in the area. 
In addition to his Red Cross activi­ties, Stewart has served the Kansas City community in many ways. He has been active in Boy Scout work, was traffic division superintendent for the Kansas City Auxiliary Police, an active member of the Democratic party and chairman of the mayor's Civil Defense Planning Council. He is also president and director of the Ozanam Boy's Home Association. 
Joe is a former city chairman of the Notre Dame' Foundation and is currently a director of the Notre Dame Club of Kansas City. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-Decemberj 1955 
ihc ^^cCabe monologue which I have to run to fill up a little space under the 1933 heading in 
most issues. But this child is not looking^ a gift 
contributor in the mouth—so let's go ^vith the guest artists: 
First of all is a letter from down St. Louis way where CHARLIE FARRIS is executive direc­tor of the Land Clearance for Redevelopment Authority, and I quote that so you will kno»' where to reach him. Here's Charlie's contribution (and before I forget, thanks a million, comrade!): 
*'I was in Washington and New York last week and attempted to reach GEORGE ROHRS without any success. Inasmuch as I was in New York 
just tor the day, it was touch and go. In Wash­ington, I did get to sec JACK KEXKEL, who is cmployied with the Urban Renewal Administration and, in addition, is a countr\' squire with a home in the countr>' and two automobiles. I don't know how it goes with you but all my friends seem to have two automobiles. Me—I'm lucky to have one! I tried to get in touch with JOE BORDA , who is w'ith the National Association of Manufacturers but he was out of tou-n. 
"During the summer, BERNIE LEXAHAX and I had several conversations and I had hoped that 
they were coming up to St. Louis to fjtend some 
time ^Wth us, particularly to see the Cardinals, but in the meantime, things got rather busy. Mrs. Farris had an operation and Bemie's otvn schedule was such that it wouldn't permit him to leave \*7nccnncs. 
LY, the 'Rochester Flash.* Since we all worked LY^ the "Rochester Flasli-'* Since we all worked like dogs getting his bag packed for him at the 20th year class reunion, I though the scoundrel would at least drop a note during the five-year period between the 20th and the 25th year reunion. 
"It seems a shame that you haven't been able to stir up some acti\-ity w-ith respect to our class fund for our 25th year reunion. I'm all for doing something about it and will be only too willing to go along with any sugccstion or suggestions upon whicli the officers decide. Wiy not firm up some approach and let's get going? Other^vise, I'm aXraid the class of '33 is going to be plenty embarrassed insofar as the amount of the activity is concerned at our reunion. If there is anything that you want me to do. let me know." 
Not to be outdone by St. Louis. Oklahoma t^mes through in the person of LUCrE.V KE.\fPF of Lindsay—and thanks, Lucien: 
"Just a line to say hello and Jet you know I received your note. Appreciate your kind invi­tation and will call whenever I get to Chicago. Don't cvpcct to be there, though, until about the first w-eek in December. 
"FATHER JI.M DO.VNELLY stopped by on his trip home to Lampassas, Texas, where he has a terrific job in a vcr>- poor parish. He had with him JOHN CtVHILL's boy or rather young giant of 14. Wliat a kid. He sure looked like end ma­terial for NO in the near future. 
*'One word you should pass on to the gang is that I still believe we ought to start cani-assing each member for a SIO bill and in this way build up our war chest for '58. One won't miss a small donation, say, twice a year, and in our last year we could fill in where needed. So much for now and best regards to all the gang. 'Would like to hear from fellou-s like JI.\t ROSS, ED ECHERT, H^VROLD POHLMEYER, ED GAUSSELIN and a host of others. 
Perhaps the best of all, inasmuch as it came first. wnF a swell note from our ^^'est Coast cor­respondent (ah, there, Lcs) LES RxVDDATZ. If I haven't written you it's because I've really been snowed, Les—but I'll get to it! Here is the Raddatz memo: 
"June turned out to be Class of *33 reunion month out here. ART BecVAR wrote that he was going to he here, and one c*'cnrng when I was u-aiting to hear from him the phone rang and it turned out to be JERRY ROACH, in town with his wife for just one day. Except for being gray and much thinner (that's a s%vitch!), he hasn't <Jiangcd a bit, 
"BecVar turned up a couple of da\-s later. He has changed less than anj-body I have seen. Only a slight touch of gray at the temples to show for the passage of the years. 
"To top the month ofT, REV. LLOYD TESKE, C.S.C., called. He was on vacation from the University of Portland, doing relief duty at a local parish. 
"My quer>- about ROGER BIERNE some time back brought a very amiising letter from JOE DEMPSEY > who tells me that Roger is alive and welL Joe neglected to mention what he is doing, though. 
"I left NBC last November to join the staff of RALPH EDWARDS. During the winter and spring, I wrote and produced a children's show called "Funny Boners," and now I am writing on "Place the Face." 
"It's a lot of fun, and I trust that all Notre Dame alumni will u*atch the show so that, the rat­ing will go up and the sponsor renctv. 

"My old roommate, FRED ^{acBETH, received a nice promotion late last year. He is now with Canadian Bell in Montreal. And, except for a most pleasant evening with the REV. JAMES McDONALD, C.S.C., who is chaplain at Notre Dame High School here, that completely exhausts the old colJegc try as far as I am concerned." 
t also received a couple of swell letters from ED DAILEY of Burlington, Iowa. Ed is prac­ticing law there and extends a cordial invitation to all classmates to say hello when going through or near Burlington. 
HUGH COLOPY, Archbishop O'Hara's former secretar>% has just terminated a year in office as president of the Akron Bar Association. 
JOHN PICK, professor of English at Marquette University, has been appointed visiting lecturer un­der tlic Fulbright Act at the Royal University of ^folta for 1054-56, Last summer he was visiting professor at Harvurd. 
GEORGE AUG, JR., is now associated with the Western Hills, Ky., office of Robert A. CHne, Inc. He has been in the dair>' by-products business with his father. 
Among new faculty additions to the University of San Diego this fall is the REV. JOHN D. 
GALLAGHER, who is (caching philosophy and music courses at both the College for ^len and College for Women at the University. Father* Gallagher resides at St. Philomena Church, Rt. I, ' Box 48-K, Alpine, California. 
\S'clI, in the belief that when I've got some­body better to talk, I'll shut up, I'm going to close here with the reminder that you, too, can get >-our name in this column—^just drop us a line .. . or, in the old ND spirit, get some other Notre Dame guy to write about YOU. 
I feel it wouldn't be right to close without a word about the Rosar>', inasmuch as October is approaching. Of all the devotions given Catholics, outside the Mass and Communion, the Rosary probably s\-mbolizc5 our faith to outsiders most of all. ' 
There's a reason for it—the universal use of this great prayer down through the ages, in all lands and by all races. 
We of Notre Dame have a special claim to this devotion—and a special duty to be faithful to it. -^ Keep your Rosary handy—in a pocket ready to hand, or, where possible—in your hand itself! 
You might call it our spiral staircase . , . going around and around, and up and up, to Home. 
10*1d T. Edward Carey 
• ^^ ^ 18843 Inulewood Ave. Rocky River, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTR.IN'T PARIS COWART i\ND ELI SHAHEEN. 
GEORGE REESE, formerly of Chicago, is as-

James J. Sherry, Jr., '36, Flint, Mich., landed a 632-pound mako shark off the Bahamas while on a vacation trip recently. The shark put up a terrific three-hour battle after being }{ 
hooked on a 45-pound test line. At first it ^vas believed that it was a record catch but be­cause the line tested more than 45 pounds in some sections the mako could not be certified. Shcrr>- is assistant director of purchasing at Buick Motor Co. 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 2955 
sistant director of organization for the American Federation of Labor in Washington, D. C. 

> G. R. PAHLAfAN- has recently been elected a resident secretary of the Kemper Insurance Com­pany. Jerr>' has been manager of the Southern California oflicc of the Kemper Company. 
193 5 Franklj-n C. Hochrefter ' '**'' 1327 Pentwooil Road Baltimore 12, Afaryland 
REUNION REG1STR.\NTS JOHN T. ^VNNAS, WILLL\M P. BARLOW, JOSEPH D. BE,\CH, WILLIAM R. BERNARD, WILLI,\M P. BERNBROCK, Cft\RLES A. BRAGG, J. R. BR,\Y.MER, JOHN BREEN, R,\Y BRODERICK, FRED BROOK.MEVER, ARTHUR BROWN, ROBERT C. BYRNES, A. F. CAREY, FRED J. CARIDEO, BEANIE CAVENDER, CHESTER J. CHcVNDLER, JOHN F. CLARK, 

r J» t COLLER^VN, JOSEPH W. CONLON, AR­THUR L. CONRAD, A. W. CROWXEY, ALFRED D'AMOR,\, VINCE DAVIS, EMILIO F. DE LIA, GEORGE DE.METRIO, PAUL DOUGHER, GERRY DOYLE, J. C. DUDLEY, JACK NYE DUFFEV, &\RL ESSER, BILL FARRELL, NEIL FARRELL, DON FELTS, PAUL FERGUS, PAT­RICK J. FISHER, JOSEPH FITZMAURICE, THOMAS J. FL\'N-N, THONfAS W. FL\'NN, JERRY FOLEY, GEORGE J. FOSS, NOR.MAN J. FREDRICKS, THO.MAS GALL/VGHER, JOHN GERRITS, SAMUEL J. GIBBONS, WILLIAM P. GORGEN, VINCENT A. GORMAN, &VMILLE F. GRrU'EL, ARNOLD HACKENBRUCH, PAUL HALBERT, JOHN HALLBERG, JIM HAMIL­TON, FAL HARRIS, NORBERT HART, PHIL 
J. HEINLE, .MARTIN A. HENDELE, BOB HENNEBERGER, THO.\f/« HICKEY, JOHN W. 

^^ HIGGINS, F. C. HOCHREITER, ROBERT HO­
• GAN, VINCE HOG/\N, JAMES HOWARD, RICH­ARD HYDE, F. M. JAEGER, JR., JAMES T. JENNINGS, BILL KEEFE, WADE KELLEHER, BILL A. KENNEDY, U'lLLIAAf J. KENNEDY, JAMES KEOUGH, EDWARD J. KILMURRY, PHIL KIRLEY, HAROLD L. KOHLMAN, AR­THUR KR,\N7.FELDER, JOHN KREBSER, LAR­RY L^VFFERTY, TOM LaLONDE, JOHN B. L,VNG, G. ALBERT LjUVTON, ROBERT E. LEE, EDWARD G. LeJEUNE, a\R L LINK, JOHN .\fc\RDLE, JI.M M&WENEY, ALBERT Mc-CVRTHY, W. J. McCR,\LEY, FRANCIS E. Mc-GUIRE, FR,iNK T. XfcGUIRE, JIM Mac-DEVITT, JOHN MADDOCK, ANDREW MAF­FEI, ROBERT MAHER, JOHN G. MALLOY, JOHN MATTHEWS, WALTER J. MATUS, FRANK MAXWELL, C. R. MONTGOMERY, ARNOLD B. MORRISON, ARTHUR .MUHL­N HOLLAND, REV. JOHN H. MURPHY, CS.C, WlLLL\.\f S. MURTHA, JOHN NEESON, CHARLES J. NOVAK, JOHN F. NOVAK. BER­NARD M. O'BRIEN, WALTER J. O'BRIEN, GENE O'REILLY, WILL^A^f J. OTTE, T. B. OWEN, JACK PENDERGAST, ROBERT PEN­DERG.AST, AUGUST P. PETRILLO, JOHN S. PETTINGILL, CL;\RE.VCE PICKARD, DR. JAMES W. PICK, JOHN E. PORCORO, PHIL PURCELL, MAURICE E. ROARK, ROBERT F. ROGERS, MATT RONZONE, ALFRED G. RUB­LY, BILL RY,\N, JfATHfAS P. SAGARTZ, MICHAEL A. SANTULLI, ROCCO SCHIR.\LLI, JOSEPH W. SCHMIDT, ROY O. SCHOLZ, ROBERT E. SHANAH,\N, MICHAEL SHEEDY, BOB SHIELDS. JAMES SHEILS, KURT SIMON, BOB SIMMONS, E. L. SIMPSON. EDWARD SMITH, THOMAS C. STRINGER, REV. VINCE 
, THILMAN, CS.C , THOMAS W. THO.MPSON, 
' JOHN F. TOMKOWID, JOHN VAN ETTEN. EDW.-\RD J. V,VN HUISSELING, RICHARD L. WALTERS, SPENCE WALTON, JOSEPH T. WASHKO, C\RL WEBER, TOM WELSH, FRANK AVELDON, SAMUEL E. WEST, JOSEPH 
M. WISCHNIA, GENE WITCHGER, LINCOLN U'URZER, O. W. YATES, FR,\NCIS A. YENCK, THOMAS J. YOUNG AND DANIEL J. YOUNGERMAN. 
Well, gang, the 20lb has come and gone; 157 of us got back, along with six men iTom assorted nearby classes who wished to identify themselves with the '35crs. 
It was a terrific party and clicked off like a precision machine. Wc heard only compliments from the returnees and the University staJT. The only thing that spoiled the weekend, and this to a very small degree, was the weather. 
Our committee had done everything humanly possible to make the Reunion weekend a gala success. 
Of course, there was the little matter of running 
THOMAS P. CARNEY, '37 

Thomas P. Camey, '37, has been elected vice-president of research, de­velopment and control for Eli Lilly and 
Company,  Indianapolis.  He  was  
formerly  director  of  the  company's  
organic chemistr)* division.  

Carney is chairman of the Indiana Section of the American Chemical So­ciety, vice-chairman of the national Medicinal Division and chairman of the national symposium of the Amer­ican Chemical Society. He is a mem­ber of Phi Lambda Upsilon, the So­ciety of the Sigma Xi and the New York Academy of Sciences. In addi­tion, he is serving as chairman of a civilian advisor)- committee to the Army Chemical Corps. 
He obtained his degree from Notre Dame in chemical engineering and his doctorate in organic chemistry from Pennsylvania State University. He also attended the University of Wiscon­sin on a Lilly fellowship for post-doctorate studies in organic chemistry. 
In his career with the Lilly phar­maceutical firm, Carney has held a variety of positions in the research, development and control fields. 
He has written the book Laboratory Fractional Distillation, is a contribut­ing author of four others and has been a frequent contributor to scientific journals. 
Carney also holds a number of patents on chemical products and on chemical and distillation processes. 
out of rooms so that we were split up, but we understand that in the future the Alunmi Office is going to take our committee seriously when we tcU them how many *33ers will show up. 
There were -tons of food, barrels of beer and gallons of cocktails. What more could anyone ask? And that Friday night buffet dinner was some­thing which all of ui will rave about for the ne\t five ^ears. 
While we overflowed* into Lyons and Howard 

when the Morrissey room ran out, we had plenty 
of room to roam around in the Rockne Memorial. 
It was utter luxury. 
And while we're on the Rockne Memorial, men­

tion must be made of the tremendous svelcome 
sign which the Committee hung from one end of 
the building to the other, one floor deep. Yes, 
sir, no one on campus that weekend could miss 
knowing that the '35ers were back for their 20th 
Reunion. 
To D,\N YOUNGER.MAN and hU whole Com­

mittee (BILL RYAN, CHET CHLEBOWSKI, 
KURT SIMON, PAUL FERGUS, FAL H.ARRI5, 
ED SMITH, FRANK MAXWELL and TOM 
HICKEY, JR.) go the sincere thanks of everyone 
of us who was privileged to enjoy their hospitality. 
Hou- they did it on the money we gave them will 
continue to be the miracle of the year. And not 
only that, but as you will learn later on in this 
column, they came out with a balance in the black. 
Just to give you an idea of the happy state of 

the 157 returnees, you will find in this issue a pic­
ture taken at the "Volcano" on the night of June 
11, where 11 of our men gathered. That lovely 
lady is GERRY DOYLE's wife, Kay Belle. 
Now, let's get to a few statbtics. We received 

questionnaires from 196 men. Of this number, 145 
said they would definitely return and 32 said they 
might return. So we had a possible or probable 
177 to work on out of the 196 questionnaires.^ 
Only 82 of the 145 who were sure of coming 

actually showed, and only six of the probables 
came back. 
That meant that 63 didn't show up who said 

they would definitely come and 26 probables never 
made it. 
However, 69 men rolled in unexpectedly—69 from 

whom we never received questionnaires. They 
came from all over the country'. 
The roll call of states looked like this: Illinois, 36; Indiana, 24; New York, 23; Michigan, 11; Pcnns>-lvania, nine; Wisconsin and Ohio, five each; Connecticut and New Jersey, four each; Tennessee and Missouri, three each; Louisiana, California, Iowa, Texas, Kentucky, Maryland, Minnesota, Netv ife-xico, two each; Virginia, Oklahoma, Massa­chusetts, Washington, Rhode Island, Utah, District of Columbia, Hawaii, Canal Zone, and Venezuela, one each. 
If you add to the 157 who showed up the 63 who said they would definitely be there but didn't make it, and the 26 who thought they might be there but couldn't make it, we might have had 246 at Reunion, which would have been a record-breaking crowd. It would have represented better than 50 per cent of the living members of the class. 
Let's start now working on our 25th and try to brins out AT LEAST 50 per cent of the Class of '35. 
So much for mass statistics. Now let's get down 

to the vital statistics. 
Three men came from out of the country: TOM FL\'NN from Hawaii, MIKE SHEEDY from Ven­ezuela' and JOHN PETTINGILL from the Canal Zone. 
The prize for the longest distance would have again gone to TOM FLYNN, but since he took it five years ago, he relinquished the honor this year and the prize went to MIKE SHEEDY. 
Once again GENE O'REILLY took the honors for having the most children. Gene rode In on his white charger with 10. 
NATE LERSWN rang the bell with the most boys and CAMILLE GR.VVEL got the Oscar for the most girls." 
The prizes- were sets of cuff links, tie clips and wallets. 
And while we're talking about prizes, your scribe wishes to formally express to all of you his sincere thanks for the gift which he received at the Reunion. For those of you who did not attend, may we say that it is a beautiful Cv-ma boudoir alarm clock set in a frame and face of Gorham Sterling Silver. 
Wc said to the crowd at the cocktail party that the clock s%*a5 something that we could inunediately turn over to Mama, only to discover that was precisely what the Committee had in mind. Or to put it in the words of your general chairman, DAN YOUNGER.MAN, "We figured that it was 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 47 
time Clara Ann got something for putting up with us and you for all thc£c years." 
May wc say that Clara Ann ^vishcs us to express to all of you her vcr>* sincere appreciation for your thoughtfulness. The clock js on hrr night table and is used faithfully. 
At the Reunion our practice of publishing a ilemorial Bulletin with the pictures of all the deceased '35crs was continued. We had the pictures of 27 men. Two others, were unobtxunablc. In addition to these, wc duicovered at the Reunion that one more had died. He was AL ANDREOXI. We ask that you add his name to your prayers in the coming years. Our Memorial Mass on Saturdav morning, celebrated by FATHER VIXCE THIL­MAN, was well attended and the Communions >v-ere impressive. 
Several questionnaires raised queries regarding a financial report from the 1950 Reunion. While wc are sure that those raising the questions had only an inquisitive interest in the matter, to put ever%'­•one's mind at rest regarding the 1955 Reunion, ^ve have asked the Committee for their financial statement. 
There were total receipts of $1,064 and total dis­bursements of $950.32. Of the $1,064 in receipts, S931 represented fees paid by 174 men. The re­maining $133 was collected as miscellaneous con­tributions at the Reunion. 
To make the financial report complete, wc think it should be obscr\-ed that there were five attend­ing the 1935 Class 20th Reunion party who did not make their $5 class contribution. Of these, four were '35ers and one was from a bordering class. These figures were obtained by comparing the Class roster in the Rocknc Memorial Lounge wih the official University roster at the registra­tion desk in the Law Building. 
Here is the Expense Statement for the '35 Re­union. 
TOTAL EXPENSES, $950.32 Photographer —,~. $ 27.00 Engraving for ^fcmo^iam cuts 65.59 Framed Memoriam picture 8.75 Class Sign . 18.00 Rope for Sign .. . 2.00 Bartenders . . 40.00 "Rock*' Custodian — , 25.00 Food „ 521.95 Florist „„ . 10.00 
Liquor . 136.48 Glass and Dish Rental , 
. 12.85 Prizes 
. 42.00 Miscellaneous (including postage) .. 
. 40.70 

The balance of $113.68 has been placed in a class trea5ur>* to start the ball rolling for the next five years. 
This brings us up to possibly the most important piece of business of the Reunion—that of electing the class officers for the next five years. They arc as follovs-s: President. .TIM HA\fILTOX; w'ce­president for the East, AXDV MAFFEI: wce-prpsi­dcnt for the South. CAMILLE GRAVEL: nce­president for the Midwest. ED VAX HUESSEL­ING; Wcc-president for the West. PHIL PUR­CELL. Your treasurer is DAX YOUXGERMAX, and your scribe has been re-elected for another 5-ycar term. 
It is vour Class officers' wish to begin promoting the 1960 Reunion XOW. With this thought in mind, your president and your four vice-presidents are seriously considering an annual dues of $2 for the next five years, xvhich \t'ould mean that cver>*­one would be painlessly in the till for $10. 
TTiese funds, in addition to providing a cushion for 1960. will be used to carr>' on the Memorial Masses for our deceased classmates and their im­mediate families, as well as for necessary Incidental expenses such as stationery* and postage for the operation of such a collection program. 
Surely, all of you can appreciate the necessity for this kind of a dues plan. We hope to keep you posted on further developments of your Class organization in the near future. Tn addition to what we are able to tell you In the column, '>'ou will be getting a Class mailing within the next fev*' months. 
Just so you may know who your \ice-presldent is, we list their states. AXDY MAFFEI, whose ad­dress is 20 S. Broadway. Yonkcrs, X. Y., has the following states: Maine, Xew Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Xew York, X*ew Jersey, Pcnns>'I\'anIa, Delaware, Marj-­land, \'irginia and West Virginia. 
CAMILLE GRAVEL, whose address is 611 Mur­ray Street, Alexandria, La., has: Kentucky, X'orth Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas, Oklahoma, Louisiana and Texas. 
KANSAS CITY — Craig \Vhitaker (R) chairman of the ND Club's William Rockhill Nelson Scholarship Fund congratulates winner Terrence Hartigan. Club President Russ Farrell 
looks on. 
ED VAX HUESSELIXG, whose address Is 250 
W. Grantley Avenue, Elmhurst, 111., has the states of: Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, Missouri, Xorth Dakota, South Dakota, Xcbraska and Kansas. 
PHIL PURCELL, whose address is 320 E. 4th Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, has the states of: Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, New Mexico, Idaho, Utah, .-\rizona, Washington, Oregon, X^e\ada and California. 
The Wce-prcsldents have received a map from JIM HAMILTOX, showing the breakdown of the country* by their territory. Wc have one for our oxvn files. JIM HAMILTON'S address, inddental­ly, is 3340 Chatham Street, Racine, Wis. 
After indoctrinating the Stale of Virginia with Xotrc Dame news and lore as state publicity chair­man for XD, TOM HILS has gone south—to Florida. Formerly on the staff of the Richmond Xews Leader, he is now news editor for the Lake­land Ledger and has i-olunteercd to handle Xotrc Dame brainwashing in that area. 
We have purposely not attempted to report on any of the men returning for Reunion in this trip to press. We feel that over tlie past year wc have given you a nindown on almost 200 men who returned their questionnaires. Frankly, we didn't take a note at Reunion because we tried to have a little fun, too. Wc hope you don't begrudge us this luxury. Instead of gtring you personal re­ports, we have attempted to review the total Re­union for you and to sketch plans for the next five years. 
Beginning with the next Issue, wc will be back on the beam with personal notes as we receive them from you. Let's keep the pot boiling and the column long and Interesting during the next five years. 
As a closing note we want you to know that wc are gratified with our re-election. Rather than considering it a chore we view it as an honor and only hope that wo may be able to round out 25 consecutive years of ser\'icc to you as faithfully as we have attempted to ser\'e the past 20. Give us the material and we'll try our best to discharge our responsibilities. 
A 
(leunton 

1 Q9 ^ A. H. Moorman 
• ^^^ 1708 Industrial Bank Bldg. Detroit 26, Michigan 
DICK BAKER has moved up to gencnal mer­chandise manager with the Ernst Kern Co. of De­troit. He is now responsible for all merchandising and sales promotion for the department store, which he joined In 1952 as a divisional merchan­dise manager. Dick and his wife, Jo, live In Birm­ingham, Mich., with their four youngsters: Rich­ard J., Ill, 13; Robert James, 4; Virginia, 3; and one-year-old PattI Ann. 
1937 ^^"' ^°''=^' 
Executive Vice-President 
MacManus, John & Adams, Inc. 
Bloomfield Hills, Michigan 
REUXIOX REGISTR/\XT 
JOE DRUECKER 

REV. PATRICK PEVTOX, C.S.C.. founder of the Family Rosary Crusade, recently extended lijs personal efforts to Africa. In a five-week tour of Kenya Colony, he traveled more than 4,000 miles and held 14 rallies ^vith an average attend­ance of more than 20,000 each. Of Kenya's 80,000 Catholics, 90 per cent signed family rosary pledges. Father" Peyton's African tour took him through Tanganyika Territory and East and Cen­tral Africa. He even led In the rosary members of the Mau Mau terroristic society detained at the Athi River camp. 
1938 Charies M. Callahan, 
• '*'* ' Sports Publicity Dept., Notre Dame, Ind. 
MOST REV. BERXARD J. TOPEL, distin­guished mathematician at Carroll College, Helena, MonL, has been named coadjutor to Bishop Charles D. AVhite of Spokane. Ordained In 1927, Bishop-elect Topel received his Ph.D. In mathe­matics from Xotre Dame and taught at the Uni­versity from 1937 to 1939. He once scr\'ed as president of the Montana Academy of Science. 
JOHX T. BOURKE has been elected as an as­sociate in the Chicago management consultant firm of A. T. Kearney & Company, which he joined three years ago. In his present capacity he is consultant In industrial relations, manage-t ment organization and development, and executive compensation. John and his wife, ^Vinifred, live In Evonston with their t\vo boys, Jay and Brian. 
48 Notre Dame Alumnus^ November-December^ 1955 
1 939 Charles S. Reddy , ' '* ' 1037 Riverside Drive ^ South Bend, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTR,\NT RICHARD J. BOWES. 

(Editor's note: BILL OTOOLE, who lias been doing an exceptionally fine job as class secretary' of 1939, recently sulTercd a severe heart attack and will be in the hospital for some time according to information received from his wife, Margaret. Your prayers are requested for his cumpletc and rapid recoverv'. Temporarily this column will be handled by CHUCK REDDY, class president. Bill O'Toole's address is 176 Hillside Avenue, Rochester, 
N. Y.-J.C.) DR. BYROX L. a\SEY recently was appointed a Health Service psychiatrist at Michigan State University. Doc took his medical training at the . University of Chicago, later was a fellow at Men-r ninger Foundation School of Psycliiatr>* in Topeka. 
Fj-om 1948 until his MSU appointment, he was In private practice in Detroit. 
Recently added to the sales staff of Chicago's Edgcwatcr Beach Hotel is GEORGE J. NEU­MANN. For the past 15 years George had been with the Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co. 
CHARLES CrVRROLL has joined the Dow Chem­ical Company in Midland, Mich., as a research and development engineer. 
MOST REV. RUSSELL J. VINNEV, bishop of Providence, who did special study at Notre Dame in 1935-36, received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree at St. Michael's College's golden jubilee commencement, at which he delivered the baccalaureate sermon. He was honored lor **his 
. great service to the Church in New England, especially to the education of youth and of the clergy." 
19dn Richard Burke " '^ ^ 146 Paxson Drive South Bend, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTR.\NTS R,\.Y.MOND R. ALLEN, HENRY G. ARMITAGE, BOB BARBER, GEORGE W. BECKER, THO.MAS 
J. BRENNAN, JOHN BRODBERGER, JAMES G. BROWN, J. THO.MAS BROIVNING, RICHARD BURKE, JOSEPH F. BURNS, ^VILUAM BURNS, JAMES A. CANNON, JR;, JOSEPH P. CARR, ANTHONY CELLA, BOB CENTLIVRE, JAMES 
P. CLEARV, JACK COLE, BILL COLEMAN, BOB CONNOLLY, BERNIE CRAWTORD, JOHN 
M. CURRAN, JAMES DELAHANTY, LAW­RENCE A. DEVEREUX, JESSE DOLL, JAMES 
V. DONOGHUE, HENRY DOWD, JOHN G. ELSE, HENRY K. ENGEL, \VILLUM FAY, JOHN C. FERNEDING, JOHN C. FINNERAN, TO.M FLAD, DR. JOHN FLYNN, D.AVID J. FOX, DR. ROBERT FROST, BILL GIES, DON GILLILAND, BOB GRISANTI, PAUL GSCHWEND, JOHN W. HACKETT, TH0SL « HACKETT, ED ILVRT, JOE HART, BERT HEN­EBRY, CURT HESTER, GERALD HOGAN, C. 
D. HOLMAN, BOB HOOFFSTETTER, ED HUFF, JI.M HUFNAGEL, D,\N HUSHEK, EDWARD A. HUSTON, CHARLES K. HUTCHENS, ED JACQUES, CECIL E. JORDAN, ROY KEACH, JOHN KELLEHER, EDWARD J. KELLY, JAMES P. KELLY, CHARLES KELSEY, AL J. 
KALAMAZOO—^The Irish coaching staff was "right oa the (melon) ball" at the club's summer outing at the Gull Lake C.C. It probably wasn't a pass Terrj- Brennan called, but Halfbacks Jack Landry (frosh coach) and Art Mulholland (club president) weren't the least bit wor­ried behind a line that carries as much weight (in coaching knowledge, that is) as Linemen Ed "Moose" (sans antlers) Krause and Bill Fischer and Center Bill Walsh. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 49 
KOSS, JOHN KOTTE, JACK KUHLMANN, 
ROBERT H. LAMBERT, HUGH J. LAUGHNA, 
JOE LAVERY. THOMAS J. LEAHY, BUD LIN­
NEHAN, RICHARD LYNG, CHARLES M. MC­
CARTHY, TOM MCCARTHY, JOH N NL\RTIN, 
ED«'ARD J. AUTHIEU, JOHN J. MLYNSKI, 
MIZE MORRIS, JOE MULQUEEN, KEVIN 
O'GORMAN, REV. JOHN PAYNE, C^-C, LOU 
REILLY, JAMES ROGERS, HOWARD ROHAN, 
BOB ROTHACKER, VINCENT J. RYAN, JERRY 
SAEGERT, BEN SAELI, PHIL SANDMAIER, 
LEO SANTTNI, BOB SCHMIT, ED SCHROETER, 
BOB SHEA, GEORGE SHEA, CLARENCE SHEE­
HAN, DANIEL J. SULLH'^AN, BILL TUCKER, 
\VAYNE WAHL, ^^•ILLIS AVALKER, GEORGE 
WALLACE, JOHN J. WARD, JOSEPH C. ^VHIT­
FORD, BOB ^VTTCHGER, JOHN WOLF AND 
WALTON WUEBBOLD. 
ROGER P. EG^\N, JR., sends along his address; 

P.O. Box 257, E, T. Bannck Mills, Dalton, pa. Roger was formerly with Dun & Bradstrcct in Chattanooga. 
REV. JOHN P.\YNE, C.S.C., reports that BILL O'HfVRE is "doinff nicely noiv" and may go to Boston for therapy. Father John asks prayers for Bill's full recovery. Fatlicr's address is 20G AV. Johanna, Austin 4, Texas. 
Reorganization of the Chicago district of Du­Font's Elastomers Division includes appointment of RUSSELL A. KURTZ, former sales supcrx-isor, as district manager. Dr. Kurts:, who received Iiis 
M.S. from Notre Dame in 1940 and his Ph.D. in 1942, is a former director of the .-Vmcrican Chemical Society's Division of Rubber Chemistrx-. 
Columbus, Ohio's Franklin County has a new county prosecutor. SAMUEL L. DEVINE. Sam, a former Ohio State athlete, ND law graduate and for five years an F.B.I, man^ was the unanimous choice of the Common Pleas Court judges to fill out the unexpired term of Prosecutor Frank Kearns, who resigned after being convicted of em­bezzlement. At the time of his appointment, Sam was a state representative in the Ohio General .Assembly^ and received high praise from his fellow legislators as he took over his new duties. Tlie popular prosecutor is married and lias three daughters. 
ROBERT G. SANFORD informs us of his new address,—117 S. Stewart Ave., Lombard, 111.—and of his new job as financial assistant to tlic presi­dent of the Hallicraftcrs Co. in Chicago. *'TIicrc arc quite a few Notre Dame men at HalHcrafters," Bob adds, "and it certainly is a pleasure w-orklng with these people." 
HAROLD C. BLAKEMAN, 1941 Farabaugh Award u-inncr in the Notre Dame Law School after receiving' his bachelor's degree in Comniercc in 1940, has been appointed as assistant counsel of the Massadiusctts Afutual Life Insurance Co., Springfield, Mass. After graduation he entered private practice briefly, then joined the U. S. Treasurj* Hepartmcnt for five years before becoming associated for the next eight years with the legal department of a leading insurance company. He, his wife and their five children have moved to Springfield from their former home in Brook­
field, in. 
DR. AVILLARD ANZILOTTI coaclied his WUm­ington, Del., parochial school football team to a terrific record last year and hopes to repeat in '55. Anyone have an open dale? 
WALTER STEFFEN, former associate editor of the Southern Cross, weekly newspaper of the dio­cese of San Diego, is now editor of tlic Sunday Leisure and Fine Arts section of the San Diego Union. 
— & 

1 041 John W. Patterson, Jr. I m Pittsburgh Press Roto Section Pittsburgh 22, Pa. 
PAT CARROLL, '34, sends word that P. J. (JOE) MULLIGAN has been made general sales manager of the Murray Ohio Manufacturing Com­pany. The Clei'eland firm, with which Fat is also 
DR. JAMES K. STACK, '26 

Dr. James K. Stack, '26, has assumed the presidency of the Passavant Me­morial Hospital Medical Staff for 1955-56. 
After receiving a B.A. degree from Notre Dame, he entered Northwestern University Medical School, earning his 
M.D. in 1931. He became a member of the Medical School faculty in 1933 and since 1949 has held the rank of Associate Professor of Orthopedic Sur­ger)'. He has been on the attending staff of Chicago's Passavant Hospital since 1934 and at Cook County Hos­pital since 1946. 
During AVorld War H he was on active duty in the U. S. Navy. 
Dr. Stack has served as chief surgeon for tlie Chicago and Northwestern Railroad, as a member of the Com­mittee of Direction of the Medical and Surgical Section of the Association of American Railroads and as recorder for the American Association of Rail­way sui-geons. 
Other positions held by Dr. Stack include membership on several com­mittees of the American College of SurgeonSj on the Board of Directors of Chicago Latin School and on the editorial boards of the Quarterly Bul­letin of Northwestern University Medi­cal School and of the Journal of In­dustrial Sui^ery. He is also secretary of the American Association for the Surgery of Trauma. 
Dr. Stack has written 48 published papers and was co-author of the fifth edition of Fractures. 
associated, manufactures velocipedes, mir';et auto-^ 
mobiles, bic>'clcs and baby walkers. We suspect Joe • 
will be watching the lists of births in the ALUM-' ,^ 
XUS very closely. ^ ^f-
JIM MCDONALD is now associated with the J 

Sun Life Insurance Company, 200 Pine St., Har-] 
risburg. Pa. \ 
1 9d9 WiUiam E. Scanlan ' '~ * 400 East llUh Street Chicago 28, Illinois 
In August the American College of Life Under-. writers awarded the professional designation of % Chartered Life Underwriter to STEPHEN C. GRALIKER. 
WALTER C. IViVNCEVIC of Rowayton, Conn., has been elected vice-president and executive assist­ant to the president of the Morris Plan Corpora­tion of America in New York City, a bank hold­ing company. Ivancevic is also an ofHcer of the Equity Corporation, an investment afhliatc of the,T I I Morris Plan. He received a law degree from * I [ Notre Dame in 19+1. 
RABBI ALBERT PLGTKIN has resigned from Temple Emanu-EI in Spokane to become rabbi of Temple Beth-Israel in Phoenix, the largest reform ; | congregation in x\rizona. 
One of IBM's many Notre Dame men, J. A. RORICK. has been promoted to project engineer • in the IBM Building Constniction Department. He started with the company in 1952 as a mechanical engineer in the Poughkeepsie Plant Engineering ; Department and two years later became tlie de­partment's manager of mechanical engineering. 
1943 J°^^ ^ Wiggins 
4800 Fairlawn Drive La Canatia, California 
REUNION REGISTRANT -^ \ REV. GEORGE BERNARD. 

GERj\LD A. SMITH has been appointed an as­sistant professor of English at Canisius College. He had previously taught at the University of Rocliester, Johns Hopkins University and the Uni­versit>- of Maryland. 
DICK PADESKV recently sulTered an attack of polio. He is recuperating at the Good Samaritan Hospital. Cincinnati. O.. and would appreciate hearing from all of his friends. 
JOHN C. VAVORSKY is currently on the law school faculty at the University of San Diego. 
DICK CORXWELL received a Mxster of Science in Electrical Engineering degree from Notre Dame at Summer commencment. 
Treasurer DON HELTZEL reports a light, thotigit far-fiung. response to our appeal to the •> class for a buck-a-man to build a Mxss stipend fund on campus. It is not our intention to name donors other than to thank them for kicking off the fund. And to make another appeal to others to donate one buck clipocd tn a business card. Send it to Donald T. Heltzel, North Main Street, Nilcs. Ohio. Do it today! 
Heltzcl. incidentally, has started a new com­pany. General Road Machines, Inc.. in Niles. Ohio. CL;UR LAMBERT writes from Chicago that he is now a dealer for Packard Motor Companv. 
DON and Marv- Lee MILLER'S fifth child and their third daughter, ^farva, arrived August 17. Lt. Cdr. GEORGE "BUD" HAYES is now as­sistant Nav-al Attache at the United States Em­bassy in Cairo, Egv-pt. George, his wife and three daughters have been in Cairo since early July. 
JACK HARRIGAN is now engineer in the Elec­tric Di\-i5ion of the Public Service Department of t the City of Burbank, Calif. BOB WEBB is prac­ticing law in Santa Ana, Calif.; he was away at a" convention when I attempted to contact him by telephone. 
BOB &\RVER is an Educational Adriscr at the Army Educational Center, Camp Kokura, APO 3, Kyushu. You can phone him at 3-3192 if you get real happy some evening, 
CHARLIE CALLAHAN who is ".MOOSE" KRAUSE's tub thumper, wrote a nice article about BILL EARLEY and his family in a June issue of Our Sunday Visitor. Bill is coaching the backfield of the Toronto (Canada) Argonauts. And, teammate WALLY ZIEMBA is a line coach under BERNIE CRIMMINS at Indiana. Another In the print recently was our pre.xy, BUD DUD­LEY, whose Villanova promotions earned a report in the Saturday Evening Post. yt 
DUDLEY K. SMITH, now a resident of Pasa­dena, Calif., is sales manager of the George S. Thompson Corporation, manufacturers of a line of 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, I95S 
ceramic pepper and coffee mills^ salad fork sets, etc., which arc marketed under the name Olde Thomp­son. Not to be confused, friend with Old Forester, etc. Dud's line Is available at gift shops, not package stores. 
1 9AA George Bariscillo 
•^^ ^ 515 Fifth Avenue Bradley Beach, N. J. 
The members of our class who attended the 10­year reunion in June of last year unanimously adopted a resolution that a committee be ap­pointed to begin plans for a DOME honoring our class and chronicling events during our under­graduate days and down through the years to the present time. 
BILL TALBOT, JOHN LYNCH, and JOHN O'CONNELL became the members of that com­mittee, and several months ago a questionnaire was mailed to each '44er soliciting information and inviting comments on the project. These were to be returned to TALBOT at 300 Main Street, White Plains, N. V. 
If you did not receive a questionnaire, drop Bill a postcard with your correct address; if you did. and have not taken the time to reply, please do so immediately. Tlie future editors of this un­dertaking, Messrs. TALBOT. LYNCH and O'CON­NELL, need your cooperation so thcv can report to Class "Prexy" JACK THORNTON the advis­ability of continuing w-ith the project. 
So that all may be informed of the initial response of the inenibcrshjp to the inquir>\ and with the hope and desire of inspiring further comments ("reaction to the reaction"). TALBOT has furnished a lengthy report, dated September 
23. and I am happy to pass it along to you: "As for the DOME inquirN- forms, 137 replic: 

ijerc received from the peri(Kl Aii.gust 2G through September 22, 1955. Divide by the class enroll­ment, and you have the percentage. (Ed. note: about 25 per cent.) 
"Tlirce clas< members will not buy the DO^fE; three will send their pictures for publication but will not buy a copy; four arc uncertain about buying a copy: 18 took an extra moment to praise the project: three took time to write a note deprecating the project: one said It left him cold; another thought we were poking in cold ashes; and still another w,-is unable to manifest en­thu<;iasm. •" 
"Of the J37 replving, 128 sard th^y would sub­mit 2x2 pliotos; and one sent his along until the questionnaire- There was a misunderstanding on tins point, as a few wondered if the picture was to be a "thf-n" or "now*' one; as some others advocated both a "then" and a "no»v" photo­

'^raph; and as still others wanted to know how soon the photographs should be sent, I had not thought of a "then" photograph, for in many in­stances tliis would be hard to come by. I would recommend simply a present-day photograph. Pho­tographs should not be sent until requested, at a later date. 
"Twenty-five class members volunteered to send a total of 88. plus two scverals, plus two somes, plus a couple photographs taken of classmates from 1940 to the present. 
*'The prices the fellows were willing to pay varied as follows: $5 and under: nine; $10 and under: 40; $15 and under: 16; $20 and under: II; over $20: 18; unspecified: 33. 
"Fourteen agreed to advertise in or patronize the yearbook; and four others listed themselves as possibilities. One replied to the question. Would you advertise in the DOME?: 'Love to! But Bar 

^iwould not permit it.* This, it seems to me, is a strangely unfraternal attitude; and I would sug­gest he patronize another bar. 
"Another said that his company would advertise 'if given enough adi'ancc notice so wc can increase production adequately to fill the added demand.* This is not only noble, but 100 per cent American. One made a common-sense objection to advertise­ments, which the editors cannot overlook. 
"A number of those replying made suggestions on which the membership might wish to express an opinion. . . . 
"FR/\NK Ci\RVER: suggests a family picture rather than a personal picture. He also adds that since the DOME 'was promised to us as part of the cost of admission to the university, the ad­ministration might be willing to defray all or part of the cost of the project.' 
^ "EARL ENGLERT: suggests publishing a h*st of names of missing classmates and requesting help in locating them. 
"BOB FUNSCH: suggests *that each man, in 
BRO. HILARION BREZIK, C.S.C., '38 

Boys arc the chief concern of Brother Hilarion Brezik, C.S.C., a 1938 Notre Dame graduate now in his seventh year as superior and director of Boys-ville in Michigan. 
Brother Hilarion taught at Cathedral High School in Indianapolis for four yearSj prior to his eight years at St. Charles Boys Home in Milwaukee, where he served a three-year term as superior and director. From Milwau­kee he assumed his present duties in Macon, Mich., in 1949. 
Since that time Brother has taken an active interest in the services avail­able to Michigan boys with a problem. Almost 500 have come under his guid­ance at Boysvilic. 
He has worked closely both with die bishops of the five Michigan dio­ceses and the State Council, Knights of Columbus in promoting the cause of the establishment and development of the unique school which the bishops inaugurated in 1948 and which the Michigan Knights of Columbus main­tain. 
Boysville now numbers 140 boys and 11 buildings. In connection with his efforts in this direction, he is co-editor of The Boys­
ville  Journal,  circulated  among  the  
55,000  Michigan  members  of  the  
Knights of Columbus.  

Brother was active in student thea­ter work ^v'hile m Indianapolis and in Milwaukee. He is also a painter and illustrator. 
Notre Same 

addition to the prosaic statistics and photographs^ be invited to submit a short essay or message of not over 25 or 30 words, in which he is to make a personal prediction concerning himself at the­25th anniversary; where he will be, what he wit be doing, humorous or serious, but pertinent—it might be worth a thought.' 
" 'BUZZ' HASSETT and BOB SCHRAMM both 

recall a special edition of the SCHOLASTIC pub­
lished for the class: HASSETT, one in October '44;^ 
SCHRAMM, one in June (year unspecified), editecf 
partially by him and RAY SMITH. 
**TOM KELLY: suggests the 'then' and '^ovi^ 

picture. 
"BOB NELSON: suggests donating the moner 

and effort to the University for a more usefut 
purpose. 
"DAN STEVENS and several others offered to­

hclp. For which, many sincere thanks. 
"Additionally, there were some personal notes: 
"VINCE DUNCAN: *Hawn't seen anybody fron» 

the halls of ND since the reunion. Made a couple 
of football games last fall but nothing startling-
happened. No big blasts. No great problems, 
out here in the Midwest and specifically southern 
Illinois that we can't handle. Hope cveryone­
clsc is living it up also.* 
"EARL ENGLERT reports that DR. BERNIE: 

SCHOO lives at 2612 Whittier Ave., Louisville. 
'HeMI be a neighbor after I get moved. Give my 
best to the gang at the Met Club when you 
see them, especially DUFFY, MONOHAN. 
ZOILA, and O'CONNOR.' 
"HxVL HALEY: 'The Haleys just moved to-

Chicago after five years in Boston. In Bostoa 
there were manv pleasant experiences with *44 
pcopIe-CHUCK ' PATTERSON, DICK HERLI­
HY,* BILL HEALY, BILL O'BRIEN, MATT 
O'BRIEN. I've just joined the Loyola faculty 
and will be practicing and teaching surger>' and 
doing some research.* 
"HARRY L.\\^RY sent best wishes on the sta­

tionery of the House of Representatives of the 
State of Illinois. 
"BEN MAMIXA: 'J"St spent a couple of day* 

in Philtv for the National Elks Convention.* 
"*BlJ\CK JOHN' MURPHY: 'Give my best 

to all.' 
"REV. JOHN RErVRDON, O.P.: 'It has been 

nearly 14 years since I saw any of the lads from 
school. However, I have been in touch through 
ALUMNUS. I was ordained a Dominican in 
June of 1&49, and was sent to the University of 
New Mexico as assistant Ncv^inan Club chapl^o 
in the Fall of 1950. Three years later I was 
assigned to Holy Rosary, and for the last two 
years have been teaching the gamut of philosophy 
(logic, cosmology-, rational psychology, and all of 
metaphysics) to the lovely girls at the College of 
St. Catherine, St. Paul. Tliere is no telling where 
I could be sent this Fall, hut if there is a change 
of address, I'll let you know. Had a bit of a 
chuckle in filling out the questionnaire. Hope the 
answers ^von't throw you too much. Give my 
regards to the boys In New York, and if I an» 
able to make it East this summer, will give 
vou a call.' 
"FRANK STUMPF: 'I have a picture of about 12 of our classmates who were at IVellcsley Col­lege when wc received our degree by proxy. We held a mock graduation ceremony in the beer hall the same night. I believe the story would be of interest in the proposed DOME.' (As, indeed, it would.) 
"BILL WALDRON: 'Saw BOB THUMM in At­lantic City when he was there with the Lions International.' 
"HARRY YE.\TES: 'Had lunch last week with JOHN LYNCH in South Bend—'tis always fun to be with him and his wife and five kids. Sec a number of the ND people around town now and then, TOM O'CONNOR in particular.* Harry reports he is also still single. 
"BOB METZLER: *I think the idea of our class having a DOME is excellent, and you can certainly count me in for supporting this in what­ever way that I may help, . , , Evcrj'onc here in Kansas City is fine, and I hope you receive the questionnaire from VAN DYKE, FINUCANE, McKELVY, ZIEGLER and DUN'N and some of the other K.C, fellows. I will be glad to appoint myself to the committee of assisting you in round­ing up any information that you might need in our area or about any of the classmates in the Missouri Valley dbtrict.* 
"TALBOT would like to thank those who sent personal greetings on the questionnaire, and ex­pressed his regret in not being able to answer each individually.*' 
That's Bill's report to date. It is requested 
Alumnus^ November-Hecemher^ 1955 51 
ROBERT E. SULLWAN, MO 
Of particular interest to Notre Dame law* graduates is the appointment of Robert E. Sullivan, '40, as dean of tlie Montana State University Law School. He had been assistant dean at M.S.U. since July 1954, before which time he was an associate professor of law in the Notre Dame faculty. 
A native of Helena, Mont., Bob interrupted his law studies at Notre Dame to enter the Air Force as a pri­vate. He served in the European Theater of Operations and was dis­charged in 1945 with the rank of major. Returning to tlie University, he earned his LL.B. in 1946. He practiced in Ohio for a year before joining the law faculty. 
While at Notre Dame, Sullivan spent his summers as a research associate with the \Varren Petroleum Company in Tulsa and as an oil-and-gas legal con­sultant for a North Dakota law firm. From 1952 through 1954 he was a member of the Legal Committee of the Interstate Oil Compact Commission representing Indiana. He now repre­sents Montana in a similar capacity. 
Dean Sullivan's Handbook of Oil and Gas Law, most of which was written while he was at Notre Dame, was published this Spring by Prentice-Hall, Inc. 
Bob was a monogram guard for the Fighting Irish and later assistant fresh­man coach. 
He and his wife, Eleanor, have a son and four daughters. 
that '44crs analj^e the comments above-quoted and note the results of the sur\'cy. 
Nou', where do we go from here? Afail your reactions—pro or con the DOME project—to BILL TALBOT, 300 Main Street, White Plains, X. Y., or to the address at the head of this column. 
Vou can ^vcll appreciate the task that confronts 
the editors; but they stand ready to proceed 
if a majority of our roll favors and 'w-tll support 
it. and will cooperate! 
Digging into your 5ecretnrx**s mailbag, I find a 
welcome letter from ED KEMPF from Evansvillc. 
''George, it is a long time from '44 to '55 and 
I %vill not even attempt to highlight the years— 
just a few lines to give marital status, iob con­
ditions and personnel report of the E\"ans\^ne 
gang. 
"Beginning with the marital status, I have been associated with my bride for II years and we have three girls to bless our union and tear up our house. Tlicrc is nothing, absolutely nothing, like four women running around the confines so tenderly called home. Aforementioned bride and this writer spent five wonderful days in South Bend last fall for the So. Cal. weekend. We are planning to spend this year's \'acation footballing —a week in South Brnd for the Xa\y game and the following week in Philly for the Pcnn game. 
"I am advertising manager for a w*holcsaIe liquor distributor." 

Ed reports seeing HANK DEWXS and BOB LONDERG/\N often. He informs us PAUL UX­VERZ;\GT is in Cincinnati with Crosby, and TOM CLEMENS, formerly of Erans\ille, is an attache of the U. S. Embass\- in Santiago, Chile. And REV. NfARK McGRATH is also in Santiago, 
KEN BROWN writes from the >fainc ifaritime 

.Academy (Castinc, ^fainc): 
*'Just a note to bring you up to date on my 
doings and to help you pad the column of the 
class of '44. For the past seven years I Iiavc 

been leaching Spanish at this Academy and scr\'­
ing as interpreter and athletic director on our 
annual three-months' winter training cruise to 
Latin .\mcrica and the Caribbean area. 
"Last winter I was granted sabbatical leave to 

work on my master's decree in Mexico City at 
Mexico City College. ^^^^lIe there I tried and 
tri<rd. but in \-ain, to locate DICK 'CACTUS' 
LEON. Outside of seeing CESAR MUNEaVS in 
Ha\*ana I haven't been lucky enough to run into 
anv of the Class of '44. 
**I have two children, Dave. age. 4, and Chris. 

age 2, and w*c are expecting another soon. I hone 
to sec something of tlic doincs of JOHNNY 

BAUM, BILL SCHEUCH, STRATTE COORLAS, 
et al in future *44 columns." 
.A, rrport from BOB MILFORD's wife informs us that they have Just had their fourth child. Lucia ifaric, which makes two boys and two girls. 
She also tells us that Bob and his brother. George, hope to break ground this fall for their own office building in Marion, Ind. TIic>* have a small loan company (signature only?) as well as their law practice. 
Early this summer Bob spent some time fishing and camping at Trout Lake and Echo Bay, not far from Sault Ste. Marie. The Milfords expect to be in South Bend for a game this fall. 
New Hampshire's attorney general has appointed JOSEPH F. GALL as his special assistant in charge of the state investigation of subversive activities. Joe is a former special agent of the 
F.B.I. and a member of the District of Columbia Bar Association. He lives with his wife and three children at 128 Amherst St. in Hashua. N. H. 
New York Attorney JOE GALLAGHER, while \'ac3tioning in Europe, clianced to meet JOE APO­DACA, '30. (former ND prof) in a Lisbon res­taurant. They first discovered that they were both Americans, then tliat they were both Notre Dame grads. 
JOHN R. RYAN, an agent in the Dulutli office of Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, has qualified for Israel Putnam, highest division of the company's Iionor roll for agents. He Is also a member of the President's Club, top prestige group for agents based on quality of sen'ice to clients and on outstanding sales performance. The Ryatu—including wife, Nanc>*. sons, John R. Jr. and Patrick, and daughters, Kathleen and Claudia Mary—live at 3530 Second Avenue West, in Hib­bing, Minn. 
CAPT. JACK P. LAWLER of Tampa, who has serx-cd with the Judge Advocate General Corps since 1^9, has been assigned to the StafT 'Advocate section at Fort Dbc His wife and three sons arc living with him at tlie army post. 
REV. AVILLIAM GRAHAM, C.S.C., earned ^I.S. in chemistry at ND this summer. 
REV. AVILLIAM R. LYONS, principal of De-lone Catholic High School at McSherr>'stown, Pa., was re-elected 'president of the Pennsyh*ania Cath­olic Intcrscholastic Athletic Association. 
52 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 
I 
And that brings us to the end of another news' 
roundup. I'm still begging for your letters and" 
postcards to help mc in my search for '44 ne\vK 
And a reminder again to write Bill or myselt 

about the DOME project. What do YOU thint' 
about the idea? I 
I 

10^ C AI Lesmez I 7-T;# ^22 Tullamorc Rd. Garden City, New York REUNION REGISTR.\NTS ' RUDOLPH J. ANDERSON, JR., ED BALL, REV. WILLIAM BEVINGTON, JOSEPH L; BRADY. JAMES W. BRx\UN, JOHN BROZO, 
J. C. BUTLER, JOHN CVRON, DAVID CVRT­WRIGHT, JOHN aVSTELLI. DAVID J. CHAM­PION, DON CISLE, DON CLAEYS, JIMj CLYNES, LOU COLLER/VN. ROBERT CRONIN/ FRANK J. CULHANE, D. P. CURRIER, REV.! DANIEL CURTIN, HERB C. DAIKER, JAMF^ | 
V. DONNELLY, JI.M DUGAN, ANTHONY: EARLEY, JACK ELLIOTT, ROBERT ERKIXS, i 
J. E. FAUST, DON FLE^VKA, HENRY FR^MLEY, MIKE GARRY. FR.\NK GILLIGAN, HARRY GILLIGx\N, B. E. GOTTA, JR., BOB GRIFFIN,: FR^VNCIS GUINEY, DENNIS HARTNETT, \TR -j NON HECHT, JOHN HOSBEIN, JOHN J. JOHNSON, J. R. KINNEY, W. H. KLEM, RAY KOPITUK, JOHN A. KRAMER, ED La-• ROCQUE, J. A. L.\UCK, VINCENT L.\URITA,' LOUIS F. L.\UTH, JOHN R. L^WERY, DICK. LEITE, AL LESMEZ, FRANK LINEHAN, ROB-\ ERT LUKE, CHARLES LYDEN, TOM Mc-f aVUGHEY. WALTER McDERMOTT, JOHN G. MACK, FR.\NCIS E. MALONE, DAVID MASSA, BOB MAURER, WILLIAM MOORE, THOMAS 
F. MULHERN, DAVE MURPHY, REV. MI-; CHAEL MURPHY, C.S.C., EDWARD J. NOO-I NAN, JAMES A. O'CONNOR, BOB O'TOOLE^;;^ [ HENRY PAYNE, JOHN R. PEDROTT\*, WIL-\ LIAM A. PFISTER, HENRY J. PISANKO, JOHN I 
F. POWER, CHUCK POWERS, JERRY PUT-• NAM, ERNEST W. R/\USCHER, ARTHUR REIS, •• 
J. R. RETTER, BOB RIORDAN, HARRY RY.VN, \ DICK SADOWSKI, DICK SAYERS, JAMES W. SCHAEFFER, ROBERT SINKLE, G. R. SIPPEL, ROBERT SNEE, JOSEPH SYLVESTER, A. J. TOCCO, REV. JOHN L. VAN WOL\'LEx\R, ; C.S.C., BILL WADDINGTON, AL WADE, ; HUGH WARD, JOHN R. WELCH .\ND ) CHARLES WOLF. 
WHAT A TIME!! 
Our lO-year reunion was a smashing success. Over 80 sturdy men of the class got together for a three-day fun-packed weekend which none of us j will ever forget. Wc were only sorry that all of^ ; you weren't there. >-: 
Our "home" was Howard Hall, with activity centered around the lounge and bar set up in the basement. Friday night we had our class dinner, with after-dinner speeches and class elections. Sat­urday the strong were out on the golf course and the stronger were close to "home" keeping the bar-boys busy, and enjoying box lunches on the lawn. Saturday evening u*as the Alumni Dinner with an address by Father Hcsburgh, and the awarding of golf prizes. A class smoker in the Golfers' Lounge of the Morris Inn followed. Evervonc was happy to sec FATHER CAREY, FR/\NK O'MAL­LEY and PAUL FENLON, ^vho visited with us. 
All too soon after this was the *45 Memorial Mass Sunday morning, with our own FATHER BILL BEVINGTON as celebrant. Father Beving­ton had travelled from Nashville for the occasion. 
Tlic Nfemorial Breakfast was the finale to a^. wonderfully enjoyable and truly satisfying weekend" with old pals. 
THANK YOU 
To all the men who helped—to BILL KLEM and his most able local staff of VINCE L.\URITA, BOB RIORD/VN, BOB SNEE and DON CLxVEYS : —sincere *'thank you" for a job well done. The late JACK TREx\CY, God rest his soul, had been a member of the Committee, tf>o. Without their careful and hard work, their follow-up on details, and their complete cooperation, the reunion would not have been the whopping success it was. 
Thank you also to the men who came. You who were here know what a time wc had, and I guess you are each more than happy that you made it. 
And to all you who contributed to t!ie surprise gift for yours truly from the class, many, many thanks of true appreciation. The sets of Notre^ Dame beer glasses, cocktail glasses, and hi-ball' glasses have arrived and arc the feature of the .bar in the basement of my home. Any member of the class passing this way is invited to examine per­sonally this lovely gift and contents; it wnll be a pleasure to sec you and to talk over class news. So thank you again for this gift; I shall prize it 3l\vays. 
CLASS OFFICERS 
The class elections were held and the hea\-y Jobs were bandied around until the following seven men finally ended up with the class headaches for the next five years. It Is hoped that each officer does more than his share so that class growth, class unity, and class spirit will continue at the high level it has these past few years. 
Ofliccrs for the class until our next reunion in 1960 arc: President, JI.Nf CLYNES, 221 North Albany Street, Ithaca, N. Y. East vice-president. TONY EiVRLEY, 44 Rox­bur%- Road, Garden City, N. V. South vice-president, CHUCK SARTORE, 4D43 Hampshire Avenue, Memphis, Tenn. , West vice-president, PHIL MARTIN, 4574 58lh feii-eet. San Diego, Calif. North Central \ncc-prcsidcnt, BILL KLEM, 328 ^fanchcstcr. South Bend. Ind. Treasurer, BILL MOORE, 720 Irving Place, Plainfield, N. J. And Secretary-, yours truly, an incumbent yetS!! 
WHO W;\S THERE? 
RUDY ,\NDERSON, ED BALL, JOE BR^VDY, FATHER BILL BEVINGTON. FATHER GEORGE BERNARD, JIM BROXW. JIM BUT­LER, JOHN a\RON, DAVE a\RTWRIGHT, JOHN aVSTELLI, DAVE CHAMPION, DON CL.\EYS, JIM CLYNES, LOU COLLER/VN, FRxVNK CULHANE, DES CURRIER, FATHER DAN CURTIN, HERB DAIKER, JIM DON­NELLY, JIM DUG.VN. 
TONY E.\RLEY, JACK ELLIOTT, BOB ER­KINS, JOE FAUST, JOHN FLE.\KA, HANK HUILEY, MIKE GARRY, FRv\NK GILLIG/VN, HARRY GILLIGAN. BERNIE GOTTA, BOB GRIFFIN, LOU GUINEY, GABBY HARTNETT, VERNON HECHT, JOHN HOSBIEN. JOHN JOHNSON, JOHN KINNEY, BILL KLEM, JOHN KR/\MER. 
ED Lx\ ROCQUE, JOHN LxWRY, LOU LAUTH, VINCE UVURITA, DICK LEITE, AL LESMEZ, FR/VNK LINEHAN. CHARLES LY­DEN, ROBERT LUKE, TOM McCVUGHEY, WALT McDERMOTT, BUD >L\LONE, BOB MAURER, TOM MULHERN, BILL MOORE, ED NOONAN, JACK O'CONNOR, FATHER WILLIAM O'CONNOR, BOB OTOOLE. 
HANK PAYNE, JACK PEDROTTY, BILL PFISTER, JOHN POWER, CHUCK POWERS, JERRY PUTNAM, ERNIE R.\USCHER, JIM BETTER, ART RIES, BOB RIORDAN, HARRY ,»JYAN, DICK SADOWSKI, DICK SAYERS. JIM ^CHAEFFER, BOB SNEE, BOB SINKLE, GEORGE SIPPEL, JOE SYLVESTER, TONY TOCCO. FATHER JOHN VAN ^VOLVLE.\R, AL WADE. BILL WADDIXGTON. FRANK W%\RD, JOHN WELCH, CHUCK WOLF. 
CLASS DUES ARE THE BACKBONE OF OUR ^VORK 
Needless to go into a long explanation of the "whys" and "wherefores" of class finances. To keep ourselves together ,to send out newsletters, to send Mass cards or flowers to families of de­ceased members, to keep any of our programs active, all require funds, stamps, stationery*—all obtained with MONEY. So wc arc asking for a • donation to the class treasury. 
BILL MOORE is our banker, so send what you can afTord to Bill (address in this column) in the jjamc of class progress and as a vote of confi­dence in the work we are doing. 
It*s a cne-timc thing; if you send something right away, you'll save us the expense of a follow­up, and you won't have to contribute again Until 1960. Get a check off to Bill right away, please. 
^LETTERS FROM' DEPARTMENT: 
From Barbara SNEE: "Just finished reading the latest ALUMNUS and thought you might be in­terested to know that the Snee family has some news of note. Bob has been made assistant man­ager of the J. C. Penney store in Muskegon, Mich. We've found a house up there and hope to be settled before August 1. Since you saw Bob at the reunion, you probably know we'll have another baby announcement due around Christmas—num­ber four.'* (Dear Barbara, congratulations and good luck to you and Bob on both counts—A.L.) 
;;^From BROTHER IS.UC JOGUES MOTZ, C.S.C.: "Dear classmates of '45, "Greetings to you all and may the Peace of Christ be in your hearU! I hope the 10-ycar 
reunion is a tremendous success in ever>- way— spiritually, mentally, socially, and physically, ilay you enjoy recalling many good memories of the days which you spent at Notre Dame in the early forties. 
"Here at Columba Hall wc arc making our re­treat, hence I won't be able to join you in the reunion before Sunday morning. We close our annual retreat Sunday morning with an early Com­munity Mass, Communion, and Renewal of Vows. Therefore, I plan to be with you all at the 10 o'clock reunion Mass in Sacred Heart Church. God be with you all." (Brother, by the way, re­ceived his master's in religion from ND this sum­mer, as did FATHER DUNST.VN MORRISSEY, O.S.B.) 
From A. L. ANDERSEN, JR.: "I am sorry I 
couldn't make the reunion. Things came up at 
the very last minute that prevented me from mak­
ing it back. 
"I would, if possible, like a group picture of the 
class if one was taken. Just send the picture and 
the damages due on them. Any other informa­
tion, if any, would be appreciated about the 
reunion." (Dear Art, sorr>' you couldn't make it. 
The picture was in the last issue of the ALUM­
NUS. You can get an 8x10 glossy by sending $1.00 
:o Bruce Harlan, University Photographer, Notre 
Dame, Ind.) 
From PHIL MARTIN: "Say hello to everyone 
for me, please. Couldn't arrange a business trip 
at this time. Maybe if the American Bar .tVssocia­
tion has a convention in Chicago in 1960 just 
before or after the reunion, I'll be able to make 
the 15-ycar reunion. 
"Still at the bank here, as trust-txx counsel. 
Passed the California Bar a couple of years ago. 
Scheduled to teach taxation in the new University 
of San Diego Law School. (Ed. note: Phil is on 
the faculty there now.) Still just have two chil­
dren, Anne 7 and Michael 5. 
"You sure have been doing a wonderful job as 
class secretary. I don't see how you do it all, but 
you've always had a limitless supply of energy. 
Drop in and tell the others to drop in if they get 
close to San Diego. Tliis is a good place to come 
on \-acation.** 
From ERNIE IL\USCHER: "Just a note to let 
you know that I for one had a wonderful time at 
our reunion last week. I doubt if there is any 
question in your mind, from the vote of confi­
dence you received, that you've done an excellent 
job over the past five years and we all appreciate 
it very mucli. 
"All things being considered. I'm sure you agree 
that We had a fine turnout. I sincerely hope that 
it won't take another five-year reunion for us to 
get together. 
"Once again, congratulations on the beautiful job OR our reunion and the trouble It took to make It so enjoyable." (Dear Ernie, thank you for the kind words. The reunion was ^vell wortli any effort wc put in, and we all were tremen­dously pleased. Sure hope to catch you soon. Al.) 
From GEORGE DESPOT: "I hope that you and the boys had a fine time at the reunion. The meeting had slipped my mind altogether, although I had it marked on my calendar and intended to go. 
"I was home sound asleep in bed Saturday night, when about 2:30 In the morning the phone rang and, sure enough. It was long distance calling from South Bend, Ind. Apparently someone (Edi­tor's note: EVERYONE) was having a good time, from the noise coming through on the other end. 
"I certainly hated to miss the reunion, so I guess I will have to look for^vard to the 15-ycar reunion. Most of all, however, I want to apologize to you for telling you I would be there and then not showing up. 
"Wc have been so busy here in the office that everything that doesn't apply to business has Just slipped past. 
"Wc have. Incidentally, formed an Alumni Club here. Although our membership is very small. It looks as tliough we will have a ver>' successful little group. Hope I may get a chance to see you in New York this fall." 
(Dear George, wc missed you, but thanks to the Ingenuity of one of our more forward members, and to the convenience of modern communications, we managed to wake you and a few others through­out the country and hear your happy voices.' Please excuse the joke, but I know your absence really hurt. Hope the bill wasn't too high. Sure do hope you get up this way soon. That goes for the whole class, too. Al.) 
CONGR^VTULiVTIONS Your new vice-president—South, CHUCK SAR* 
FRANK J. CONBOY, '32 

Frank J. Conboy, '32, was the only New York State playwright to see two of his works performed at the New York State Fair. The plays were se­lected in a statewide competition, with winning entries being performed by community theater and college drama groups. 
Conboy was represented by "The Floor," which won the New York State Regional Playwridng Contest a year ago, and a new play titled "The Auction." 
Frank lives at 403 East Buffalo Street in Ithaca, N. Y., and is an employee of the New York State Gas and Elec­tric Company. The theater is his avocation. 
Besides his plaj'writing, Frank is set designer for most of the Ithaca Com­munity Players' productions and a member of their board of directors. He has also been active in community theater groups in Geneva and Auburn and is a former vice-president of the Ithaca Players. 
Conboy has taken several prizes in play\vriting contests. His plays have also been performed by a number of community theaters and at statewide theater conferences. 
While at Notre Dame, Frank served on the staffs of The Dome, The Scho­lastic and The Juggler (then the cam­pus humor magazine). 
TORE, is about to take on still another serious obligation. Congratulations to Chuck from us all on his coming marriage to Miss Jaiic Evelyn Ferber on November 12, 1953, in Sacred Heart Church, Memphis, Tenn. Good luck to both of you on your marriage and on your new home. 
And congratulations to Pat and J. D. USINA on the birth of Joseph Timothy on August 6, weighing a little under eight pounds. Good luck 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1953 S3 
'• ]'>n'. >»''^' that OJd Sail of a dad. llopt-IQ^T James E. Murphy peutlca, Psych'jsomaiica et Orthopaedagoglca," thr he d<i rsn'i make yon IH-CIMIIC a sailor. International Journal of Psychotherapy. Psychoso­
•^^ ' 1706 Churchill Dr. 
matics. Special Education. 

CLIITINGS DEPARTMENT: South Bend 17, Indiana 
EDWARD AUGUSTINE DESLOCE, S.J., UHD JOSEPH F. MEXEZ, -,vli,> r.ci-ivrd Ins doctorate earned bis bachelor's degree In electrical engineer­from Noire Danie in '45. is a iiiembtT of tlic EDWARD MADV.AY, who is uitli the F.B.I, in ing irom Xotrc Dame, reci'ived an M.S. In physic Loyola L'niver^ity facidty in Chicago. Joe is well Pittsburgh, was in the .-\himni Office in .August 

and mathematics this stnnmer from St. Lfuii-' known as a Icftnrer and writer on current afTair.-.. with two young sons-\ four-ycar-old daughier Unixersity. 

completes Ed*s present family, with, of course. 

A REMINDER: .At Brooklyn's St. John's University this June. 
Mrs. Madvav. 

Don't put lhi« column down and close the maga­PAUL and PETER SMALDONE received tlieii 
JOSEPH A. PAPPALARDO, who received his 

zine until next Issue, .-o VOLT do your part, loo. LL.B. degrees from the School of Law. 
doctorate from .Notre Danie. has been appointed 

Follow the easy rule'.: WILLIAM J. OBER.MILLER of Whiting, Tnd.. 
assistant profesMtr of chemistry at the University 

1. Get a small conirihution oil i<» nur treas­Is Industrial rommunity representative in the Calu­
of Davton. 

urer, BILL MOORE. met Region for the Standard Oil Co. .Active In 
DR. WILLIAM J. DUXN writes DE.\X BAL­DIN'GER that he has accfptcd a position whh ihc2. Get a letter olF to me. tellini; me what's been civic work Jn Whiting, he resides wiili his parents 

going on since ia>i wc heard from you. and family at 1748 Cleveland Ave. 
Internal Medicine Department of the Carle Clinic 

S'long now. Al. In August, LEONARD F. SWOYER became 
in L'rbana. 111. Bill was at ND from the Sprinc 
eastern regional sales manager for New Departure of '43 till November. 1944. 
DivisH)n of General Motors In Bristol. Conn. Len 
More news of ND M.D.'s in this note from DR. 
had been Bristol zone sales manager for the G.M. 
JOH.V A. ARaXDI, 3m S. Painter Ave., Uhittier, 
division, which manufactures ball bearings and CiliL: bicv'cic parts. His home is in Harwinlon, Cotju. 
"MEL RICH and I are interested In getting to-
IRV F.AS.AN eaVned ins m.T5ter's in politica! 
iieiher with the Notre Daine men ulm are in ihe 
science at ND In June. 
Whiltier area. . . . 
JOHN GL.AAB, with the Shell Oil Company, 
"I am now in practice in urology here In Wliit­
recently received a promotion and a liiree-year ex­
tier afier having completed my re>idenc>- in urology 
tension of his aisigninent in San Diego. John 
at the Johns Hopkins Hospital. .. . It has been 
and his family are living in suburban Chula Vi^ta 
a lonir old grind since I was at .Votre Danu'. but 
at f>18 Colorado St. 

it wa> worth it."' And ND Librarian VICTOR A. SCHAEFER 1 Q4A J^ck Tenge, Jr. 19dfi Herman A. Zitt 
-ends alone a reprint of an article by DR, CLAUDE JOSEPH FI.VNEV, who is with the 
• '^* ' 635 Belmont Pk., No. 
U. S. Velernas .-\dministration Hospital in Palo 

Canion. Connecticut Dayton, Ohio 
Alio. Calif. The treatise—take a deep breath—h 

DR. ROBERT E. .MURPHV has opened offices entitled "Interrelationships anitmg Three Psyclnnic The mail situatitm i lo<»king up for the Class in Fort Madison. Iowa, al 914 .Avenue G. He Patients Treated Simultaneously in Individual and of '48. but still leaves much to be desired. Let's received hi> M.D. at St. Louis University and now (•roup Psychotherapy by the Same Therapi'it"' and hear from more of yon. specializes in ob>tetrics and g>'nccoIogy. appeared in—aaoihcr monlldul—".Acta Psychothera­
.An 13-nionth-old hab boy, named John, is tht 

AVESTERX \V.\SHIXGTOX — Alunmi who attended a breakfast in honor of Democratic Chairman Paul Putler, '27, in Seattle, were: {standing, left to rittht), Bernard J. Lcnoue. Charles Osborne, Al Toth, Fred Hoover and Dan Conlcy; (seated, left to ri^ht), Pat Suther­land, Butler and Emnictt Lcnihan. 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 
CLEVELAND—^Thc closed circuit telecast of Xotrc Damc-Miaini ^aiiic in Cleveland attracted many alumni and ctucsts. Standini;, left to rii;ht: Dick Miller, '53; Frank McGroder, Ml, vice-president: Creighton Miller, '44, president; George Ratlerinan, '47. Seated, left to right: Art Wood, Jr., '52, secretary; Gus Slephanek, *52. treasurer; John Pctilbon,"53, and Walter Miller, '21. 
ii,-u,->t iJicnibiT n[ the JOHN* ABEXS Ju>u*.-hnld ill Cliicigo. 
DOS -V. KERSTKX, lii^ wUc and three cltildrtii have luovud to Diibii<itic, loua, uhcrt- Don N practicing lau- wiiU ihc law firm <if O'Coiiiinr. Tlionia-i, McDt-riimH and W'rlglu. Ilis Iiome ad­dress there is 930 Lanpvorthy. 
Thanks to I-ICVNK '/.AGORE, wc have tlie fol­hnviim' information on ANTHONY PAXDOLFO. After liis erachiation from ND, he entered the Con­ijregation of Holy Cro>s, where in 1951. at Moreaii Seminary, he sltidiei] plijjo.sophy while at the same lime he received his niaNter'^ degree in politieai science. At present, he resides at the Holy Cro>i Ft>reii;n Mission Seiiunar>', \V.i.shington 17, D. C . where he U studyiui; iheoloiiy. With the comi)Ie­tinn of his theological sliufies, he is expected to return to ND. wlien- he will do fnrtlicr research in political science. After that he hopes to sail for Eai>t Pakistan. There, in addition to missionary" activities, he will head the Department of Political 
'^ Science at Notre Dame College. BR.\D BENNEIT fit all this on a postcard. He sees RUDY KEMPTER frequently. The Kemptcrs 
have two bovs. Brad recentlv had a visit from the GENE LcFAVES of Granada Hills. The Ben­nelti' third cirl, Maura Ko?e. arrived on Janu­ar>- 30. Their atldress is 2129 Mardina, West Co­vina. Calif. 
RICHARD P. ELLIOTT has started a new job with Frii;idaire. in Sales Planning, here in Day-ion. Hi> new address is 2I5I Moler Avenue. Wel­ct>nie to the city beautifid, Dick. 
Another newcomer to D-iyton is JOSEPH D. KENNEDY, now a member of the patent depart­ment of Monsanto Chemical Company's Research and Em-ineerino^ Division here. Joe had been with the U. S. Patent Ollice in Washington, D. C , 
•^ince 19ri3 and before that worked at liie Army Chemical Center in Marvlaiid. He earned his law degree from George Washington University tins vear. 
JOHN .\I. ALVAREZ, JR., received a master's degree from Hanard at June coniniencenicnt exer­cise';. 
PHILIP P. MUNNING, of 60 East Wilson Circle, Coimtry Club Estates, Middletown, X. J., hxs been appointed district sales manager for Mon­mouth County by the State Farm Insurance Com­
panies. Phil has charge of hiring, training and 
supervising of the local sales force. 
DR. STEPHEN J. CALU\, '49. sent In items on his fellow alumni at Johns Ifopktns Hospital in Baltimore. ND men of '48 there are R.\Y SRSIC and DR. DAVID MOSIER (Johns Hopkins, '50). Ray has entered his third year at the medical school after spending the summer doing research at the Mellon Institute in Pittsburgh. Now doing research in pediatric endocrinolog>' under a Public Health fellowship, Dave was at the Children's Hos­pital in Los Angeles for two years in a pediatric residency. His home address is I9I6 Woodbournc .\ve., Baltimore 14, Md. 
JOHX SULLIVAN took a busman's holiday from managing Sullivan's Triangle Van and Storage in San Diego this summer—and moved. Tlie Sul­livan family is now located at 5318 Sxxon St., San Diego. 
JOHN J. DUNNE received Ins doctorate in mathematics and PHIL McCORMICK his in phys­ics at Notre Dame's June commencement. O. E. DUXX earned the Professional Degree of Elec­trical Engineer. 
Congratulations are in order for Katherinc and 
Notre Dame AlumnuSy November-December^ 2955 55 
Prof. Herman F. Afark (left) who has been dcHvcrini; the P. C. Rcilly lectures in chemistry at Notre Danic, chats with Dr. G. F. D'Alelio, head of the University's chemistry department. 
JOHN COSGROVE on llie birth of ihcir fourth child. Eileen Mar>-, on October 1. Kathleen, Pa­tricia and Edward round nut the family, encamped at 3810 KcJIer Ave., AJcxandria, Va. John is assistant director of education for the American Federation of Labor in Washington. 
1 QdQ Tohn P. Walker ''^ ' 826 Wng Street El!;in, Iliinois 
REUNIOX REGISTRANT DON MURPHY 
STEVE GALL-V received liis M.D. from Jolins 
Hopliins in 1953 and w-as an assistant resident in 
anesthesia at ihc Johns Hopkins Hospital during 
the past year. He's now a resident in anesthesia at 
the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital. 

Steve also reports that P.AUL PECKHAM is in his senior year at Jolins Hopkins and spent the summer at a smalt hospital in California. 
Degrees galore were received by '49ers this year. 
Among them: 

REV. CHARLES F. WEIHER, C.S.C., and DO.V KLEXE of Denver, both M.A.'s in English at Kotrc Dame this summer. 
HAROLD W.VVXE CHANDLER, 1301 E. Tliird, Mishavv-aka, Ind., M..\. in Social Work with a major in Social Welfare Administration from St. Louis University in June. 
P.\UL JOSEPH BIEBEL of Illinois, M.S. in Bi­oIog>' from St. Louis at tlie June Commencement. PAUL A. COREY, Xf.A. in Education from Western Reserve University in June. 
Alumni on the move: 

FR.ANCIS N. ROTT now lives at 109 Royal Plaza Apts., 1725 N. Prospect Ax-c., Milwaukee 2, Wis. He is employed by Chris. Sdiroeder S: Son, Inc., in Milwaukee. Francis finished his law course at the University of Wisconsin in 1952 and in 1954 he married the former ifuriel Bradley. 
C.\PT. T. J. DEV.\NNY, U.S.A.F., is now stationed with the 2500th M&S Group, Mitcliell Air Force Base, New York. 
Certified Public Accountant PATRICK H. MEEHAN has opened a public accounting oHice in Suite 208 at 150 East Midwest Ave. in Casper, Wvo. 
in Pasadena, DON DOOLEY has been elected 

to the Caltccli cliapter of the Society of Sigma Xi. 
Don is a grad student at California Institute of 
Tcclinolog\-. Tlic national honor society e-xists to 
promote research in pure and applied science. 
Election to it represents demonstrated rescarcli 
ability and publication of high caliber papers. 
Tile Pittsburgh Corning Corporation lias ap­

pointed PHIL SHErV as sales representative at­
tached to the companv's Philadelphia district of­
fice, 225 S. 15th St., Philadelphia 2, Pa. 
LT. PAUL H. DALLMAN, U.S.N., devoted a portion of the summer to moving from suburban La Mesa, Calif., to a new San Diego address at G523 Judy Lee Place. 
195 0 Richard F. Hahn 
6930 North Odell 
Chicago 31, HI. 

REUNION REGISTRANTS ART ARQUILLA, TOM AUCHTER, JOHN J. BECKHAM, GARRETT BOLGER, JAMES BON­ESSI, JOHN BONESSI, JOHN BO.VNOT, JOHN BR.VE1', JOHN BRODERICK, LEO BROWTiT, PAUL BUCHYNSKY, RONALD CAMPBELL, JAMES CARBERRY, .VNTHONY CAR.MOLA, THO.MAS CARTER, R. J. CASURELL/V, GUS CI­FELLI, JOE COAN, CHARLES CORCORAN, RICH.\RD CORDASCO, LEONARD COSTAN­TLVI, JOH.N COURTNEY, JAMES CRE.\MER, J,\.MES CROWE, R. J. CSESZKO, ART CURRAN, DO.V CURRENT, JOH.N DEEGAN, KE,NNETH DONOGHUE, LARRY DONOVAN, ED D^^•YER, THOM,\S EGAN, G. WILLIAM EGGERS, JOHN ELLIOTT, EDMUND G. FARRELL, JR., MAUR­ICE FERRITER, JOHN FERRY, HUBERT FISCHER, ED FOLEY, JERRY FRAZEL, AR­THUR FRERICKS, J. PETER FRIDAY, JAMES FRITSCH, MICHAEL FUMO, RAY G,\NS, THOMAS F. GARRETT, ALLAN GAVAN, FRED GEORGE, RICHARD GLASS, JOHN GOOSSENS, BOB GRAY, JIM GROVES, RICHARD H/VHN, BOB HAYDEN, JIM HEANEY, GERALD HEBER­LEIN, JOE HERRINGTON, JOE HICKEY, RALPH HINGER, BOB HOCHMAN, JAMES HOLWAY, ROGER HOSBEIN, ERNEST HOUGHTON, EDWARD HUDAK, EDWARD J. HUGHES, THOMAS M. JOHNSON, FRED JOYCE, MICHAEL JUDGE, EDWARD KEAR­
NEY, ROBERT KEARNEY, LOU KEIFER, JR., 
ED KELLY, ROLAND KELLY, RICHARD' 
KE.MPNER, WILLIAM KENNEDY, HENRY ; 
KETTERER, RICHARD F. KLEE, DR. RICHr. 
ARD J. KLOECKER, JACK LUIBERT, Rt\Y': 
LAMMERS, GEORGE LxVNDIS, ROBERT L^VNG, : 
LEONARD LeCLUYSE, WILLIA.M LEONARD,.; 
RICHARD LEOUS, DOMINICK LOP;\NO, 
LOUIS LOURO, JOHN LUa\S, PRIMO LUS­
ARDI, CH,UILES LUTES, FR.VNK .McBRIDE, 
RICHARD Mca\LLY, TOM McEVILY, RICH­
ARD McGOLDRICK, R.\Y.MO.VD .McGR.\TH,. 
JOHN McL<M.N', JAMES McL-AUGHLLN, .MER­
LIN McNELLIS, JOHN McSHANE, COLIN .Mac-
KAY, NEIL .MacKAY, JOHN MADDE.\, DICK 
.MAHER, DONALD .MAHO.VEY, WILLH.M MA­
HONEY, RON MALEC, TOM MARTIN, JAMES . 
.MILLER, HUGH -MULLIG.VN, JR., DICK MUR­
PHY, GERRY MURPHY, WILLIAM .MYLER, 
ROBERT NALLETTE, D.ANIEL .XORANDER, 
JA.MES 0'BRIE.V, WILLIA.\f O'CONNELL, 
JOH.\ R. O'CONNOR, THOMAS R. O'CON­
NOR, BERNARD O'DOHERTY, WILLIAM OG-. 
BURN, THOMAS 0'GR,\DY, J. H. O'REILLY, 
DAN OSBERGER, JOH.\ OWENS, JOHN PALM­
ER, JOHN PHEIFFER, JOSEPH PHEIFFER, 
HAL PL,\MOXDON, SILVIO PULL,\NO, FRAN­
CIS QUINTS', VAL REISIG, BOB RIORDAN, 
THOMAS RIORDAN, ROBERT ROLFS, BUD 
RO.MANO, DAN ROWL^VNDS, HERB SAMP­
SON, BOB SANFORD, K.ARL SCHOENHERR, 
DON SCHULTHEIS, PAUL SCHWETSCHE.VAU, 
JAMES SEBOLD, GEORGE SEEGER, WILLIAM 
SHANAH.AN, JOSEPH SHANNON, JI.M SLAT­
TERY, ROBERT SLOCU.M, ROBERT S.MITH, 
ROBERT STOCK, DON SULLIVAN, F. JERRY 
SWEENEY, JAMES R. SWEENEY, JAMES J. 
TANSEY, WILLIAM TARD.ANI, JERRY TER­
HA,VR, JOHN W. THOR.NTO.\, HARRY TROY, 
ROBERT UHL, DR. JOHN VAS SVYS, ROB­
ERT E. WAGNER, FR.\NK WEBER, BERNARIX, 
WEIGAND, JAMES C. WELCH, BOB WELCH, 
JOHN WHALEN, ROGER WHITE, R. J. WID­
M,\NN, AVILLH.M WIGHTKIN, DICK WILLEN­
BRINK, W. J. WISSEL, CHARLES WOLFE, 
DONALD F. WOLFE ^VND EDWARD YOUNG­
BLOOD. 
JOE HERRINGTON has recently been named 

telegraph editor of the Indianapolis News. He . 
joined the News staff in September, 1950, as a 
copy editor and his most recent position has been 
assistant state editor. Joe w'ill be in charge of 
editing national and intcrnstional news Iroat the 
wires of the Associated Press, United Press and 
International News Ser\'ice. He resides with his 
parents at 852 North Rural Street, Indianapolis, 
Ind. 
Columbia University has awarded the .•Vrmstrong 

Fellowship in Law for 1955-56 to Attorney ED y i 
WARD G. COLEMAN of Springfield, III. It was' : 
granted to Coleman on the basis of scliolorly abil­
ity, professional background and general practice 
in nationwide competition, ^^s Armstrong Fellow, 
Ed will be admitted to candidacy for the degree ' ' 
of Doctor of the Science of Jurisprudence. . " ; 
From 1950 to 1952 Ed ser^'ed as a special agent f with the F.B.I, in New York and New England. Upon his return to the Midwest in 1952 he joined the faculty of Springfield Junior College as an in- ,, structor in business and joined the law fimi of Curren, Dresscndorfer, Friedman and Coleman as a partner. 
He is president of the Notre Dame Club of 

Central Illinois. 
The arrival June 3 of William Scott Holmes, 5 lbs., 7 oz., kept R,\LPH HOLMES from the re­union. Congratulations to Afamnia Rosemary and Poppa Ralph, who is leaching school in Superior;^ Wis. Tlieir address: 1923 Wisconsin Ave. 
JOSEPH M. SHANNON, Indiana Securities Ad­ministrator, was elected national secretary of the National Association of Security Administrators at its annual convention in Canada late this summer. 
One of three new research associates named to the Metallurgy and Ceramics Department of the General Electric Research Laboratory in Schenec­tady is FR<\NK VERSNYDER, transferred from the Small Aircraft Engine Department of G.E. in Lynn, Mass. In 1954 Frank received the Henry Marion Howe Award from the American Society of Metals. He, his wife and two young daughters are li\-ing at 1845 Becker St., Sdienectady. 
ROBERT J. SLOCU.M received a master's de­gree in business administration from Harvard at June commencement exercises. The State Univer­sity of Iowa bestowed a master of science degree on EUGENE L. E.MERSON in June. And OWEN>' 
P. LAYDEN earned his master's from Rutgers at Spring graduation. 


56 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 
WILLIAM J. ENGLISH, JR., now holds the degree of ^(aste^ of Automotive Engineering after ^wo years of study at the Chr>'sler Institute of Engineering in Detroit, the auto industry's only graduate engineering school. 
Included in the graduating class of the Na\-y's OfBcer Candidate School in Newport, R. I., was \VILLUM D. GORDON. Bill underwent a four-month ''pressure" course—the same offered NROTC students over a four-year period. 
J. THEODORE SCHWARTZ, «ho received a master of science degree in mechanical engineer­ing from Notre Dame, is now a doctor—the medical variety. Ted earned his M.D. from the Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia this June. 
Army Rcscn-e 2nd Lt. BOB HAYDEN put in his two Weeks to the cause this summer at Fort Dix with the 1119th Replacement Training Center. 
Dcla^varc Club President CHARLIE WOLFE just completed a successful season with the Dela­ware semi-pro champions, hitting well over .300. i:\fter five years, he still maintains the old form. 
PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY', vice-president of Packers & Processors Sales, Inc., in Minneapolis, journeyed all the way to Monterrey, Mexico, Oct. 7 to address the Texas Canners Association con­vention. 
Notre Dame bestowed advanced degrees on four men of '50 at June commencement and on one in August. June gratis: .M.A.'s REV. JOSEPH L. LENNON, O.P., and ERNEST LEHMAN; ^LS.'^ HAROLD SHIRxVWAKA and BOB HOCHMAN. This Summer JOHN GRUENENFELDER, who earned his M.A. in '30, added an \(.S. in mathe­matics. 
WALT GEUDTNER found time this summer between his duties at the Con\-air division of General Dynamics and planning picnics for the Notre Dame Club of San Diego to pack up the household belongings and acquire a new address, 
Hil l Regulus Street, San Diego 11. 
A 
5 yean 
aeumon 
w 
Jane 

10C I Robert J. Klini;enberger 
• ^ ^ • 1823 Griswold Dr., Apt. 0-22 Fort ^Vayne, Indiana 
Congratulations to HANK MADDEN and his wife, Sally, on the birth of Kathleen Anne, a playmate for Lynn Marie, on August 22. 
Congratulations to JOHN CORCORAN and his wife on the birth of Colecn Catherine, May 10. John was married on October 4, 1952, and they had their first child, Mary Eloise, on September 2, 1953. He is now working with his father in South Bend. John's current address is 517 Oak­uiont Park North Drive, South Bend 17, Ind. 
ART GOLDKAMP, 910 S. Mattis Ave, Cham­paign, III., writes that after leaving NT) he got his M.S. in biochemistr>- at Loyola University in Chicago. While in Chicago he met and married Ginny Stuart from Maywood, III. Currently he is working for his Ph.D. degree in organic chemistry at the University of Illinois. They have a son, Robert Christopher, who is two years old. 
t- ROGER NANOVIC is married, has a son and is currently in the Army at Camp Chaffee, Ark., and living in Fort Smith, Ark. After leaving ND he attended Dickinson Law School in Carlisle, Pa., and received Jiis law degree in June, 1954. 
On behalf of the class, I would like to offer our sincere s>'mpathy to WILLIAM KLEE on the death of his mother on June 24. Bill, we will certainly remember your mother in our prayers. 
PAUL KOMORA ha^ xcccniVf moved to Fort Wayne, Ind., with his family and is a salesman with the Great Lakes Distributing Co. 
JIM SCHMITT, 810 Palmer, Youngstown 2, Ohio, writes that he spent 35 months in the Navy aboard the light cmiser Manchester and was sep­arated in May, 1954. In June he started work as a trainee in the accounting department of U. S. Steel in Gar>-, Ind. Last Fall he was transferred to Youngstown and on April 16 married Miss 
C^iaric Parr of Long Beach, Calif. His best man was TOM CARROLL, the bride's cousin. Also JIM VOGEL from Pittsburgh was in the wedding 
' party. Congratulations, Jim, and best wishes. 
Jim also writes that JIM VOGEL left the Navy in September of '54 and returned to work with his father at the Interstate Equipment Corporation. Jim writes: 
"I heard from TOM BOLAND, who lives with his wife and daughter in Columbus, Ohio, and JOE STACK (married in July, 1954), who is now working in Kentucky on some Hush Hush project. 
"My roommate PHIL 'BEAR* FACCENDA has been going to law school along with JIM JEN­NINGS at Loyola in Chicago. 
"Occasionally I meet DON 'BUNNY* WXLSCH iicre in Youngstown. He is an industrial engineer with Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co." 
Thanks for all the news, Jim; see you in June 
of 'm. 
TOM OVRROLL—business address is care of the Dumore Company, 1300 Seventeenth St., Ka­cine. Wis.—writes that he has been selling metal­working machiner>' for the last couple of years and has been doing quite a bit of traveling. 
In July, he writes, he and GERRV KEARNS took a joint vacation, meeting in Las Vegas (not intending to win much, and they didn't) and then going to Long Beach, Calif., to visit Tom's folks. In La3 Vegas Tom saw BILL McGEE, who was with us in the first year and then went to Texas and Oklahoma. Tom says that in talking they were wondering as to the whereabouts of BEN DAMIANI, JACK XULADY, BERNIE LAVINS, ANDY WALSH and a lot of others. (We've been wondering, too; how about a word, fellows?) 
Tom also writes that while in Louisville he stayed with JIM HENNESSY and his wife, Bar­bara. IVhtle there, he saw TtO^ GROBMYER, who is working in Cincinnati, and BOB NUN­NELLEY, who is working in Louisville. 
Tom gets to South Bend every now and then and generally stays with TOM SHEEHAN, who is working tlicrc with his dad in managing several parking lots. Also, JOHN HALEY is back in South Bend, after being released from the Marine Corps. 
While there, Tom writes, '"I usually see DAVE NAUGHTON and his wife, Lois, GENE JOHN­SON and JOE EGER, all of whom are in Law School. (The way wc "beared" it, JOE EGER received the degree Master of Science in Chemical Engineering irom ND in August.) 
"I always look up JIM FRICK and BUDDY POWERS. Those guys certainly deser\'c a round of applause for the great job they're doing for the Alumni-Foundation. 
"Here in Racine are a couple of guys from '51. There's JOHN WHALEY, who's going to law school at the University of Wisconsin. Another is JOE CHANIGA, who just recently was a major cog in organizing a really good Alumni club for this area. 
"BILL TOOHEY, '52, from here just left for the C.S.C. seminary*. 
"In Chicago I always see *JOCKO* MUL­DOON, in his last year of law school. Also run into CHARLIE MURPHY, PHIL FACCENDA, HARRY HANIGAN and JERRY HANK. 
"In Texas I ran into DICK CULLEN, who is a lau-yer in Victoria, and GENE MYLER, \yho was recently married to a Rochester, N. Y., girl and has moved to San Francisco. He is working in the accounting department of Kodak Corp. 
"Hear from BILL ANHUT, who is getting his law degree from the University of Michigan." 
Thanks for all the news, Tom. 
BILL NORTON has been appointed deputy-county prosecutor by Mr. Melvin Thomburg, Madison County prosecutor in Indiana. Bill got his legal education at Georgetown University, re­ceiving his LL.B. in 1954 and his LL-M. in 1955. 
PHIL CANTWELL, whose address is Mary Star of the Sea High School, Eighth and Cabrillo Sts., San Pedro, Calif., is athletic director of this school and living in San Pedro with his wife, Cathie, who was a nurse in St. Joseph's Hospital in South Bend, and his three children, the latest being Mary Margaret, age 12 months. 
Phil wites that TOM CARTER is now head coach at St. Augustine High School in San Diego. He had held a similar post at Mater Dei High in Santa Ana. The Carters now reside at 867 Diamond St., San Diego. Tom is the third ND alumnus on the St. Augustine staff, joining DICK .\URTIN, '45, and MAJOR JOHN DALY. (Phfl, the only address I have for BILL WHITESIDE is 729 Gennantown Pike, Lafayette Hill, Pa.) 
TED O'MALLEY, whose address is 3002 N. Evergreen, Phoenbc, Arb., writes that he is in the real estate end of the O'Malley Investment and Realty Co., and enjoys it very much. Ted writes that they have two children, and will be on hand for tlic Reunion. 
Ted sent FR.ANK BROPHY's address: 46 W. ^fonroe, Phoenix. .Ariz. He is a student at the 
Harold A. Foecke, (R)^ ass't. professor of electrical engineering at Notre. Dame, presented a paper ^vhich received top honor at the Young Engineering Teachers' meeting held on die Pennsylvania State College campus. Second place winner was Prof. D. R. Lamb, (L), Univ. of ^Vyoming. 
'Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 57 
University of Arizona Law School and will gradu­
ate in June. 
I saw BILL PUETZ, who is a regional manager 
for Travelers Insurance Co. and ts now \vorking 
out of the Sherland Building in South Bend. 
Bill told mc that JIM McGUIRE Is working with his father in tlic real estate business in Hol­stcin, Iowa, and is married and has one child. DA\'E 0*LEARY is married, living in Manson, Iowa, and is in the clothing business. 
DENNY RADFORD was released from the ser\-­
ice lately, is married and selling Hfe insurance for 
the Lincoln National Life Insurance Co. in 
Omalia, Neb. 
MATT MARSHALL is working with Standard Oil of Indiana in South Bend and is still batching it. MART\' O'CONNOR is living in Vet\ille, is married, has a couple of children and attending Notre Dame Law School. And DAN O'CONNELL is married, received his master's and is on the faculty nou* of Valparaiso University. 
TOM LOGAN was released from the Army after serving 15 months in Korea. He now has a leach­ing fellowship at Indiana University Law Scliool. His address is G45 N. College. Bloominglon, Ind. 
PHIL FINNEGAN, 300 .Alexander, Apt. 0-2, Rochester, N. Y., writes that he married Marv' Teresa ^fcDona^d of Atlanta over a year ago. TOM CARROLL was his best man and PETE GREEN and FRtVNK GROVO were ushers. Phil is a sales representative for Owcns-IllInoIs Glass Co., working out of his Rochester branch oflice. 
Phil writes that on July 9 GENE MYLER and Miss Shirley Van Buliard were married. JACK CURRAN *\-as a guest at the wedding. 
GERRY KERNS, whose address Is 215 East I2ih St., Vancouver, Wash., writes that he Is still foot­loose and fanc>' free and is still employed by the Western \Vax Paper DIrision of Crown Zellcrbach Corp. in Portland, Ore. 
Also, I'd like to report my wife's and my firstborn. Jerome John, on September 10, 1955. 
ROBERT P. ANDERSON recently completed work toward his Ph.D. at Kar\'ard and is doing research In physical-organic cliemlstry in the Chem­istry Department of the General Electric Research Laboratory in Schenectady, N. Y. 
GORDON BRICKSON became the 13th Notre Dame alumnus currently on the staff of the Con­\'alr DIrision of General D>'namics when lie moved to San Diego titis summer. His new mailing ad­dress is 4471 Clalremont Drive. 
SISTER \ L AELRED POTFINGER, O.S.B., and P. L. KNIGHT, JR., ^vho earned their mas­ter's at N-D. In '51, received their dncloralcs In bioloo' from the Unlvcrsltv In June. 
LEONARD M. a\LL , JOHN K. MOORE and ROBERT J. EDMONDSON received master's de­grees from Harvard at commencement exercises on 
June 16. 
Tlie men of '51 were busy on other educational fronts as well, other degree-earners this June: 
Doctors of ifedidnc: JOSEPH G. BURGER, University of Pltuburgli; JOHN J. BOEHM, Northwestern Unlverslt>- Medical School; JOSEPH 
A. BETTENCOURT, JR., Georgetown Univcrslty; GEORGE M. HALEY, Stritch School of Medicine, Loyola University of Chicago. Joe Burger, his wife, and their three children will irontinue to live in Pittsburgh while he scr\cs his internship at St. Francis Hospital there. 
Master of Business Administration: JOHN J. AfcKELVEY, from Rutgers. John's address is 72 Danforth Ave., Jersey City. 
Nfastcr of Chemical Engineering: LEE F. BROWN, of 451 S. Kenllworth Ave., Elmhurst, 
III. Lee's degree Is from tlie University of Dela­ware-
Master of Automotive Engineering: JAMES P. MELOCHE, from the Chrysler Institute of En­gineering after a two-year course. Jim earned a master's in chemical engineering from ND in August of *52. 
The Navy's Officer Candidate School in New­port, R. I., graduated two men of '51 this sum­mer. JOHN VANKER won his reser\-c commission in May; JOE COLEMAN wzis commissioned In September. Both had completed a stepped-up four-month "pressure" course. 
ALUMNUS recently mentioned the non-CS.C. ordination of three ND men this year, but REV. EDGAR J. MISCH, C.S.C., informs this publica­tion that they overlooked two *51 men of the cloth. REV. DONALD H. KREBS was ordained June II in the Crookston Diocese and RE\^ JOHN 
F. O'BRIEN June 5 in the Green Bay Diocese. 
From California comes word that GEORGE STROHMEYER is now football and basd)all coadi at Junlpero Serra High School In Gardena, a Los Angeles subuib. 

ST. LOUIS—The club sponsored a 'going­away' parly for Notre Dame students. Head table included {left to right): Fred McNeill, Father Boamian, Club President Don Do­heny, Father Reeves and AI Vitt (campus club prexy). 
By now we've all received our first notice of the reunion, and It's time to start bringing all our news up to date on class members and making plans to return to the campus June 8, 9 and 10, 1956. 
1 Q«i7 Harry L. Buch 
• '^ * 986 National Road Wheeling, West Virginia 

Heard from JI.M SHAPIRO early In August. For the past year he had ser\ed as executive offi­cer aboard the U.S.S. PCEC 873. In September he win be stationed at the Recruit Training Com­mand, Great Lakes, 111. 
Jim also tells me that JIM POWERS is working as a salesman for a knitting mill in New York. 
TO.M DIGAX Is working for I.B.M. In Hyde Park, N. J. He and Mrs. Dlgan are the proud parents of a boy, Thomas Bernard, born in De­cember. 
Mr. and Mrs. RON WILDER are the parents of a daughter, Connie Jean, born in July. 
\TC KROEGER and his witc have a new dauglaer, Susan Marie, bom in June. That makes tliree for the Kroegers of Naperx'Ille, III. Vic re­ceived his master's in English from ND. 
Lt. j.g- JOHN A. HALTER Is now stationed at Corpus ChristI Naval Air Station, after ha\ing completed two years of sea duty as supply and disbursing officer aboard the U.S.S. Darby. 
CHUCK EDWARDS has received his M.D. from Creighton University and will Intern at St. Mary's Hospital, Duluth, Minn. He and his wife, Cecelia, have a son, Charles Joseph. ' 
DICK STUBBING is in the Navy, stationed in Turkey, where he will remain for two years. He and his wife, Pat, had quite a trip through Ger­many on their way over. 
JOE G.A.RGAN was married to Bett>- Ann Hurs­tcl on September 17 at Sacred Heart Church, with a reception at the Morris Inn. 
TOM KING of Toledo graduated from law school in June, passed the Ohio bar c-xam with flying colors and at present Is scheduled for the service In November. 
JI.M "CONNIE" HIGGINS Is at present man­ager of the Higgins Wholesale Grocery Company In Becblcy, W. Va. 
DON STRASSER was married June 4 to Marv* McDonalt at St. Kilcan's Church, Chicago. 
JI.M MAN'NING signed with the Brookl>-n Dodg­ers and was scheduled to play with Cedar Rapids. Iowa. 
Notre Dame's June graduating class Included Ph.D.'s CLIFF BARKER, JOHN IVORY, PAUL KRUSE and REV. C\'RIL A. REILLY, all of whom earned tlielr masters* in '52. 
JERRY BURLAGE, HANK GUSHING, JOE D.ANIEL, JOHN GREEN, TO.M KIELTY, JOHN NEUMAYER, NORM PODELL, HUGH SCHA­DLE and ED WEHRLE all received M.A.'s from ND in June, while CHARLES McCABE earned his 
58 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 
Master of Music Education degree and TOM; MURRAY his M.S. in chemistry. 
SERAFINO P. MAZZA, JR., and STANLEY .-^^1 BRONS received la\v- degrees from Harvard at t June commencement exercises. JOSEPH P. BEL-; LON and HARRY C. NESTOR are other new! badiclor of laws—Joe received his degree from St. : John's University In June, while Harr>* earned his} LL,B. at Ohio State. 
After graduating from Notre Dame's College of! Law in June. PETER J. DONAHUE joined the attorney ranks In the Justice Department's Inter-i^ nal Security Division, under the Attorney General's"; 1955 program for law honor graduates. 
TOM ROEMER has opened a law office at -104 National Bank Building, 112 W. Jefferson Blvd. In) South Bend. He is associated with the firm of • Gnhcrn, Earl and Elchlcr. ' 
PAUL SCHLICHTA has a year's fellowship in \ chemislr>* at the California Institute of Technologv­under a grant of the Shell Companies Foundation, ' Inc. TIic fellowship will enable him to compleill : work of his doctorate. Paul can be reached at 1307 Cedaredge Ave.. Eagle Rock, Calif. 
DICK MANSFIELD, 56 Greenfield Ave., Sara-: toga Springs, N. Y.. has been awarded a Mon-; santo Chemical Company fellowship leading to a ; doctorate decree at the University of Mar>*land. . 
EUGENE PLY has joined the stafF of the ^Vhlt-\ Ing Research Laboratories of Standard Oil in In­diana. LEO SMITHSON has left Westlnghouse •. and is now with the field engineering staff of: Hughes Aircraft Company, Culver City, Calif. 
The College of St. Tliomas In Saint Paul, Minn., • has added JOHN IVORY to its faculty as assistant '• professor 'of phj-sics. John received his M.S. and '• Ph.D. degrees from Notre Dame. 
A trio of '52 men received their Naxy com­missions in May after a four-month "pressure" i course at Officer Candidate School In Newport, • 
R. L: BILL SCHULTHEIS, GEORGE GLASER* ^ and BOB TREHEARNE. JOHN MOR/\N com­pleted a similar course at the school in September. I 
ED ALTHERR graduated from the U. S. Na\-al ! Pre-Flight School in Pensacola and is now as-\ signed to the WTiiting Field U. S. Na\-al .Auxiliarv' ' Air Station, ^fllton, Fla., for primary flight ' iraininc 
\aCTOR STEPKA Is now In St. Louis Unlver-l shy's Sdiool of Dcntistr>-. JIM GRAHAM is with the U. S. Department ] of Justice in Kansas City. Mo. • 
'Way down yonder In New Orleans. JOHN > M/VZUR is coaching Tulane's backficld. John served two years as a Marine lieutenant and then played pro football in Canada. 
BILL TOOHEY is now at Sacred Heart No­vitiate In Jordan, Minn. PHIL ANDERSON Is back at ND for graduate work in education. ^ 
That's all the news I have at this writing. Sef you again in a tew months. 
1QC 9 Rneene D. Fanning 
I T;ji9 230 South Broadway Aurora, Illinois \ 
A few familiar faces of '53 are still to be seen ' on campus. JERRY SMITH, for one. is In his ;• last year of law school. MIKE ^^cKINSTIU\ \ is back for a semester before entering the seminarj-. 
DON CARBONE has returned to ND on a scholarship to tr>* for his master's In the new Program in American Studies, a combination of American literature, history and political science. Don sa\-s the only resemblance between this and the past t\vo years of advertising cop>-wTlting, sales promotion and house-organ editing Is the complete lack of time to get everything done. That may bj because he's working part-time in the Alumni Office. His job Includes ghost-writing class notes. So if you hear any chains rattling in this column, don't blame your secretary*. The page Is haunted. 
Don reports that BILL COxVKER, who started out as a *53 man but by prodigious effort gradu­ated in August of '32, plans to be married June 16 to Miss ^^ark Blank in the Log Chapel at NT>. Bill is a senior at the Stritch School of Medicine, Loyola University, Chicago. 
DAN COLLINS and MIKE HUSSEY are jun­iors at Loyola Med, while JOHN FLYNN is simi­larly situated at Northwestern Medical School. How about a progress report from all you ether med students? 
Tlic same goes for all '53 men In or just out of law and graduate schools hither and yon. Not that FANNING Chevrolet isn't booming, but your, secretary does have time to read your lettersr (DItto-o-o-ooooo!—the Ghost.) 
JOHN SCHAFER and JOHN PORTA received master's degrees from Harvard in June. JOHN 
HOUCK gdt a law di-grcc from Notre Danic and a bride from South Bend. .:BILL SANTORO of "Zulu Warrior" fame left Aorlliwcslcrii Med a year ago to go after his master's in English lit at Columbia. Xou* he's back in New York working toward his doctorate. 
Valediciorlan ERNIE BARTELL and baritone GENE GORSKI deserted the Wndy City area for the Congregation of Holy Cross. At ND this summ-r they bruslied up their Latin and are now at Sacred Heart Novitiate in Jordan, Minn. Gene earned his Master of Music degree in August. while Ernie holds a mxstcr's in economics from the University of Chicago. 
DICK WEINACHT earned his Naw commis­sion at Newport. R. I.'s Officer Candidate School in May; JIM FLr\HERTY and ED HADERER completed a similar four-month "pressure" course there in September. 

October sees JOHN LEONARD separated from the Army and back home from the Canal Zone. He *Und wife, Barbara, have relumed to 1648 Seminole 
Rd. S.E.. Grand Rapids. Mich. 
BILL KILMINSTER informs us that he returned from Korea in .August, along with DICK WOLF­GR^\M and JERRY KELLY. Bill is now working on his master's at the Cornell Graduate School of Business & Public Administration and is living at 1425 East 16lh St.. Brooklyn 30. N. Y-, home o' dem Woild Chanipeen Bums. 
WALT SWIFT has been named coach of dra­matics at Canisius Collrrge. Walt was earlier awarded a graduate scholarship by the speech and drama department of the Catholic University of .\merica and has completed work for his master's degree. .\l Canisius h<* is also an instructor in the English department. Before Joining the facidty he was a member of the Vallev I'lavers in Holyoke. Mass. 

. MICHAEL PETRICK. who earned his master of Science degree in chemical engineering at ND, is 
working toward his doctorate at Illinois Institute 'of Technology in Chicago, on a fellowship from Standard Oil of Indiana. He spent the summer in research at Arconne National Laboratory. 
BOB TOMBRINCK received his M.x\. in educa­tion from ND this summer. In June, JIM NOONAN earned a master's in correctional administration. 
Seen at either of the season's first two home football games: GEORGE HIGGINS, who is out of ser\'Icc and back with the Kroger Company in Kansas City; TOM FOOTE, who is out of the Marines (he almost hated to leave Florida) and looking for the right job; JOHN HOUCK (see above); JOE DESAUTELS. 

Our Ghost adds that the class has already pro­gressed half way toward its five-year reunion, so keep us posted on your social, educational, business and geographical status. 
lOiQd Ens. G. A. Pflauni, Jr.. USNR, 
IT3^ U.S.S. Gunston Hall (L.S.D.-5) 
c/o Fleet Post Office 
San Francisco, Calif. 

With my deadline for this material just 24 hours awav and mv present position about 3,000 miles from' JOHN a\CKLEY's ALUMNUS desk. I'll limit my opening remarks to a reminder to all that the Annual Alumni Drive is still In prog­ress and that donations for this year's drive are recorded until the first of the year. Let's not forget Notre Dame. 
The following material might scrni like hibtor\­to some, but with this being the first copy since the Spring deadline, I'll pass it all on for the 
. ^information of others. Pvt. MARION LESZCZYNSKI can be found at the following address: Student Company 22— 
TSESS, Camp Gordon, Ga., where he is going through a high-speed radio operators' school there with BOB CRISPIE and a\R L FAR/\H. Marlon reports that DICK GERCKEN and DICK ROBIN­SON are in training at Fort Rllcy, Kan.; Lx\RRY LcBLrVNC is In Puerto Rico doing Army admin­istrative work; .MIKE McGRATH and PAT Mc-DONOUGH are at Temple Med School; AL WALTER is working for New York Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. 
GEORGE KOCH dropped me a line while waiting for a flight to France through the cour­tesy of the Army. He is a graduate of the Army Engineering School at Fort Belvolr and .ser\'ing as an engineering officer with an Engineering Com­pany In the aforc-mentioned area. 
'*^ News around the old lot comes from PAT FOLEY who is finishing up his last year of Law School up there with such luminaries as RON MEALEY- ED WHITE, L/\RRY DOI-/\N, ED 
FRANK J. MCCARTHY, '25 

Frank J. McCartliy, '25, a native of Indianapolis, lias been appointed vice-president of the/Pennsylvania Railroad at \Vashingtonj it was announced Oc­tober 2, 1955, by James M. Symes, president. Frank, who will report to Mr. Synies, has been assistant vice-president since 1951. 
Mr. McCarthy is the son of Frank 

E. and Margaret (Rogers) McCarthy. Both his father and grandfather were railroad men, the former having been foreman of the finishing department of the locomotive shops at Beach Grove, Indiana. 
Upon graduation from grade and high schools in Indianapolis, he at­tended Notre Dame, and was grad­uated from Indiana University with an 
LL.B. degree. After 12 years of rail­road experience in Indianapolis, he became vice-chairman of the Associ­ated Railways of Indiana in 1938, ad­vancing to ciiairman in 1942. 
On Januaiy 1, 1945, he j'oined the Pennsylvania Railroad as special as­sistant in the legal department, at Washington, and on November . 16, 1951, was advanced to assistant vice-president. 
Mr. McCarthy was made a Knight of the Holy Sepulchre by fope Pius XII two years ago. He is a member of the newly-formed Advisor)' Council of Notre Dame's School of Law. 
BRODERICK, JLM CORCORAN, BERRY REECE, BILL FAGAN, JACK "PUBUCTTY" ROSSHIRT, JOE JOYCE and CARL ECK. Pat 
reports that JLM MURRAY u-as honored by the appointment as editor-in-chief of the Notre Dame L.MVYER. 
Am also informed by Pat that PHIL WALKER has earned his wings as an air obseni-cr at Elling­ton .AFB; JIM GREENWELL is working for Annco Steel in MIddletown, Ohio, while MEL JIGANTI is attending DePaul Law Sdiool. 
Pvt. ROBERT RICH, US 562484Jt, Co. B, Ist Bn, QMSR, Fort Lee, Va., reports that he is per­manently stationed at the above address where he Is working in the art and training aid department. Before entering the Army, Bob completed an in­dustrial engineer's training course with "tVcsting­house Electric Corp. 
Bob passes on some info on AUKE 'TH E BAR­BER" CELESTE, telling me that he was the proud poppa of a baby girl in April .-md had been working with Bell Aircraft Corporation in Lock-port, N. Y., until he received a recent call from Uncle Sam. 
HERMAN L. KRIEGSHAUSER, 2nd Lt., US.-\F, reports that he was married to the former .Miss Blanche Jeanne Rechtien on May 14, and after his graduation • from the St. Louis College of Mortuary Science in June he embarked on a three-year hitch with the Air Force. 
JOHN SCHLOEGEL reports seeing ANDY CORR\ 0 in Milwaukee this saimmer with his fiancee, Marie Dolan. Pfc. JOHN CASEY, Svc Co. 61st Inf. Regt.,' Fort Carson, Colo., reports a desk job out there in the foot of the Rockies, where he is the mainstay of the personnel office. Also stationed at Carson arc "shavetails," as John describes them, second Johns VISINTINE and BIERBUSE. 
BILL (COMMERCE) FAGAN is stau'oned at Fifth Army Headquarters In Chicago. No doubt he runs Into that celebrated Chicago convention-goer. SMOKE BERRY. • 
Second Lt. DICK ^L\RTIN can be reached at O.MR Box 141, Maxwell AFB, Ala., where he is base athletic onicer. Dick came up with a good question: where would be a good place for the '54s to get together before the Miami game? 
Couldn't come up with anything concrete because I knew that this was going to come out after the game was over. However, it brings a good point up. We can use this column for such arrange­ments if the word gels to me in time from some interested person in the concerned locale. 
Might try as a starter the USC game this year. The last copy of ALUMNUS lists a rally for Friday, Nov. 25, at 8 p.m. at the Blltmore Hotel in Los Angeles. See you there? 
Dick passed on quite a bit of dope about some of the other fly boys out of our class, saying BILL 
•FAIMAN is a 2nd John at Stewart AFB in Tenn., JACK REUBA, 2nd Lt. at Brooklcy AFB, Ala., JERRY KEATING is at Carswell AFB in Tt-cas. .MINNIE M.AVRAIDES is at Boiling AFB in Washington, D. C , JACKIE LEE and BOB BURNS arc at Lackland AFB, Texas, for • pre­flight, JERRY KIEFER is stationed at Kelly AFB in Texas. 
If any of you Air Force men are located around Wright-Patterson, drop In on my folks anytime at 200 Squirrel Road in Dayton and say hello. . BOB and Betty McGLYNN of 634 N. Main St., South Bend, Ind., keep me well supplied with info, the last note reading: **. . . announcing the ar­rival of a daughter, Elizabeth Anne, on August 19, 1955." Congratulations. 
Betty writes that Bob is doing his year of resi­dency- at Memorial Hospital In South Bend for the completion of his master's degree In Hospital .-Vdministratlon. 
They see BOB SWANSON occasionally and re­port that he has finished his master's degree in English at school and is no^^' working at WNOU­T\' as a cameraman. 
Received the following copy In the mail not long ago. "Mr. and Mrs. Roy Leland Dalbey announce the marriage of their daughter, Alice Louise, to .Mr. THOMAS JEFFERY NOL.AN, JR., on Wed­nesday, the I5th of June, 1955, Dcs Moines, Iowa." 
MIKE MAHONEY, Lt. j.g. of the USS Guada­lupe (AO-32), FPO, San Francisco, Calif., reports two cruises to the Orient aboard his "grease dock" and a discharge date of February, *56, after which he plans to head to Michigan Law School. Nega­tive, Mike, you heard wrong regarding my ship­ping over., 
BOB NANOVIC is enjoying the scenery of Ger­many through the courtesy- of the Aiiay. He can be reached at APO 28, Ne%v York. 
Pfc TOM KNOTT, RAII278165, Field Station 
NotTe Dame Alumnus, November-DecembeT, 2955 59 
NE\\' ORLEANS — rather Fred Diyby was the club's Man of the Year selection. Seated are Father Digby and Father Alfred Mcndez. C.S.C- Sliest speaker from campus. Standmi; (L to R): William Johnston, immediate past club prcs.; Peter Hilbert, new prcs,; James E. Sniilli. v-p: and Ed^tard D. McCarthy, secy-treas. 
mw DC. IU>\ 2-il. .wo ;». Sun Fr.»nci>ct,. Calif.. JOH.N CKOSIMETCH i> woiklin; in the adverii-Ncnds aloni; his addtf>'. fur fulun- rorrfsiiomlfiirr. ini? (leparlnu-ut of a Steel Company in Milwaukee, 
Anoiht-r rfcriU bit of C(irri->|)oiH]riicc in tUv mail t You're sure that's a STEEL c(»inpanv in MIL­reads a> follKU.*.. "Mr. and Mrs. Mfcc Filipirli WAUKEE. Bill?) IVt. S.MOKE BERRY is .m Fo,i requfsl llif honor of your pre-^rnrf at tlie mai-Bliss workini: on "NIKE." while 2nd Lt, DAN riagc of ifirir daucinrr. JcannL-itc Dolores, to Mr. H.\.\LMER is dotnc c^Hinicr intelJicenre w(»rk hi MATTHEW F. KULUZ on Satnrdav. ilii! IIili of Austria. JLM DURKIN and LcROY BAZ.ANY June. 1955. at Si. .Mirha.rs Cluircli. Biloxi. Misv ' aie statiiitied at Camp Chafee. .Ark. 'Jnd Lt. 
THIL BOLIN is uiih the First Marine Aircraft RAV SALVINO reports thai lie niairied the foi-Wjnir In Korea. 
mtT Mi-iS DeKires Mayer on July 2 in Chicairo. and he i= presently continuini; his denial studie'^ GENE HOWLEY repoils that he had an en-at the University of Illinois. r<ni:iter wilh (be lUck while llyini; last .\Lty. Hi-
BILL GUILFOILE has his usual hue supply „{ 

was his usual brief and rapid self in the letlei information on hand for me this deadline. In 
in uhirh he loh] of doiut; some ilamat'c lo hi­.spite of ureal odds. too. I iriii^ht add. .At the arm. He has hern clven some recuperation Iea\e present Iinu- he is aboard the USS Tanner (.AGS­
and reports back to his ttuty station tlil> fall. 15). c/o FI'O. NVu- York. X. Y., and in the 
He cai: be reached al his home .-»ddre>s in .Au-lin, midst of a sur\ey cruise in ilie North Atlantic. 
Minn. Best of luck ti> you. Cene. 
.Activity out on this roast and point h fartliei "'. . . ai the monu-nt we are doiiii; survey work west has been nuile rapid, so I hear fr»»u .MILT otr the roast of Baffin Island, ntirth *ti ihe .Arctic 
His description seems uotlli (jtiotini* and reads: 

BE.AUniNE and JAKE NOONAN. «lu. are nu-Circle, This is a strange country with no darkness. 
lenlly in West Par. snow covered mountains. little vei-eialion, irebcrss. Beau has the disliiirtion id servinu on the USS seals, polar bears and Fskimos. We've been up I>iachenk(» f.APD-I2;i). which was ihe last ship to here over a month now with a uood siv weeks leave Halphonj; before it fell to the Reds. He more to go, ,\s >ou ran iinauine there is little reports a definite drop in the morale <if the Japa­lo be offered in the way of extra-curricular activi­nestr female since he left that area, but this was ties. The absence of mail and radio reception liave balanced by the opposite effect tui the morale of almost compjftely ivdaled us . . ."' the American female> since his arrival tni this Sounds like clioice duly. Bill. coast October I . Here follows some of the dope that Hill pas.sed Jake wrote me from Honi: Kong and reported on from his icy perch. R.\Y KUROWSKI is a tremendous visit there and a new wardrobe i*i aboard the USS Proton (AKS-2H), c/o FI'O, San strictly cashmere upon leaving. Aa\ countint; on 
Francisco, Catif. JOHX KELSCH is out this way taking in the USC game with him, m that he'll as a disbursing officer at North Island, N.AS, in be back on November 23. San Dieco. JOE GIOVANTM is also a D.O. on I have Seen quite a bit of JIM BOESEN out the USS Markab. c/o FI'O, New York, N. Y. here on the coast. He can be reached at the fol­
60 Notre Darne Alumnus, November-December, 1955 
hmlm; addre,-: -C' Btiv. Ux AAA AWBn F.MF. MCTC. 29 Palms. Calif. Had the pleasure ..f meet­ing his fiancee nut lit re a few weeks auo and look forward to takiim in the \\eddinu in Des Moine­(lie last part of December. 
.Also ran into another 2il Palms .Marine. FRANK LEX. when he came ahoanl tint here with a scho<iI partv lo ^ee ^^bat this sea-iioing na\-\-U like. JOHN KEEM.AN I. the XO of a Marine ('oinpany up at Pendleton. 
Spent two ueek* of sriiool inn here «ilh CHRIS .MALONE this summer In the Fleet Gunnery SrluKiI. Chris .-Ince then ha- taken the big step and become engaged to the very charming Mis-Tony Schildker "of .\'ew J.-rsey. Chris Is presently hohh'ng down the (hilv of IVrsoiinel Oflicer on thv brand new USS Tulare fAKA-lI2K c/o FPO San Francisco, Calif. 
He tells me that LE.\ DURY is with the Marines In Japan and quite a hand with a 4.2 mortar. 
Lt. PHIL BREH.M, Box 245 O.MS. Dover AFB. Dover. Del., writes that after leceivlug his navi­yalor's winys. he was assigned to the 40th All Transport Squadron of the M..\.T.S. .Atlantic Divisuui. 
BOB CHICKEY commeiUs on the death of GEORGE DeSMEr, '5:i. In a jet crash at El Toro in early June. "Ii was quite a shock." writes Bob. "m the .\'D boys out here (about four i\{ us). George had oidy been flying here at EI Toro for about a luiuilh. We all trust thai Ge<>rge was in tfie 'graces' of God when he left ns. I'm sure that as an ND man he was in the best shape uith Our Lady." \­
About himself. Bob had this to report: "1 haven't had Ion iimch trouble finding employment. as you can see. I have been in the Marine Corps 
aliiiiist n >.\(r iiiivv (his lftt«-i «;is daiiil jum- lHj. 
uufil of tliat Iiinr sjirnt at Quaiiiiro. \'a. I (•ariic 
111 El Turn ;ih<»ui f»iur iiidiitlis ayo aiirl luivc as-T-.iiiu'd the (liitir-s a>v supply nfiirtT f"r Service Sciiiatiron. 
"I Jiavi- luM-n fullnvviim lliitujs at srii'nij prclty 

rloM-lv liinuiyli copies of llu- SCHOLASTIC. Thai 
iiaiiif "Notre Dame" is a miracle vvortl . . . 
uiicre^er you i;o. Now is ulieii I realize liow lucky 
I was to he alile In altend such a uoiiderfitl 
scliool." 
JON IIAKKR uiiie. froui Ii;ti2 ITili St.. f-an 
Di.-.:;o: "On the tilth ..f June I v»as uiarried at 
iUAy CIos^ ill South UeiuJ to Jraiuie Neinelh 
(St. Mary's, "54) ami \*r then moved to San Dieyo. 
J am in llic Naw lensiyji). assiu-iied to the L'SS 
Waiuuck (Al'D I2.'n otii here." 
HOB GRAHAM, "liti. Harrislmm Alum.ii CItil. 

secretary, reports thai 2nd Li. JOHN -M. LYONS 
Is warchiui; the v\oil(i i;i. hy from a jet at W'ehh 
.Air Force I{a>e. Jiii* .Sprites, Te\;is. 
The NaWs Olli.-er t;aiididat.- Srliool at Neupoil. *'R. L . commissium.l HOB ROSS and JOK CO.S­
GROVE ill .May ami BERNIE RANDALL In Sep­
leinher. -Ml had survived a foiir-monlh "pressure" 
course which crammed in everyihim: tfie .ViiO 
does ill four vcars al NT). 
JI.VI ZAV.VrONE is in s.rvice in Cermanv. 

I'rior til his assiL-nmnit |im attended lani-uau­
school. 
Speakin-.: of sdiool. JOHN J. LVON lias he.-n 
awarded a fellouship in hisi<iiy at Kni">ry L'niver­
sity in .-\tlania. Ca.. to sUitlv for his diM-lorale. 
At .Votie Dann- ihis summer. DICK LVON. 

BOB BELLENGEE. O.WK HU.M.M. DON BEOEL 
ami BOB SW'.VNSON all received masirr>" decrees. 
FR.AN MEANEV is an ensi-n .tatione.l ..n tlo-

USS' Brant. He was hot man al his hrother Jack'> lieddin^ in California rccentlv. L%hcrs in­cluded JOE DAIGNE.\LLT ami HIU\RY R.VL'CH. He cxp-cls to he yetlini; another ship 
(presi-ntlv tin a minesweeper) in Octoher. Fran's addres, i. En^. Francis X. .Meanev. USN. U.S.S. Brant ^ MSdnj-CIj. c o i'O. N.VSV. ('..rismoiith. Va. 
I'vt. JIM BUCKEN.MYER (L'S.->2:m:i7r>l. Medical Detachment. :.027SU. L'. S. Army Hospital. Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind.t sends in a clippint; from Tin: Ohserver. weekly newspaper for personind at i'ort B. II. The hanner lu-adllne on paye one fad>: "Caliaiilii-r Triumphs in Similes I*lay()if." ivferiim: to the tennis exploits .if I'vt. CHUCK (:ALI..\GHER In the Lltli Finance DKhursInc Jieciion. 
Referrini,' to Gallai;lier's outstaniilni: plav, tin-paper reports: "Baker 1 LIKfTENANT Baker, tliat is. was workini: him close In on the net when i,r Oamim-d om- sliyhlly i„ lJ'RIV.\TE) Gal­Liirher'/i left, (lallaiiher made a liincini; Iiackhand chop at the hall and dropped it just over the net lo catch Baker completely out of position." 
.\nd ai-aln: ". . . (lallanher's steady eanie and leinarkahle return^ uore douci the resistance of Iii* opponent." Look out, Traherl. here comes Chuck! 
Second Lt. JOHN F. \VALLAC:E .•^etids his re­i:arcls from WViylit-l'atterson .\FB in Ohio, where he's ilyiuL' a de-k In the Ollire of Information Services of die WVinht Air Development Center. 
A rerem Utter fn.m Ens. JOHN GRINDELL, L'SS Tawa>a rA'iF-!)2f. c. .• FPO. Sail Francisco. (Tallf.. hriiiys a iin-s^aye of i;rief that I save iintil last so that the pos^Ihilily of it not helm; re-ini-inhered In your prayer- is nil. 
lie vei\ -adly report-; that his divim: partnei at Bayonne. N. J.. FOSTER PAKCARD, drowned durjnif his traJninij on July 11. Speaking for the Class of '54. I e.xpress our deep sympathy to his family on the lt>ss of a fine man and friend of all of Us and assure them of our continued prayers for the repose of his soul. 
1 QC C Ens. Thomas F. O'Mallcv 
• '•' ^ 6738 Kenwood Kansas City, Missouri 
I hei;In my first column on a note tif sadness. We Were all shocked to learn of the unliincly deatli of one of our fellow graduates in the class of '55. CHF,T WYNNE. 
It is a certainty that Chet will always be re­inemliered hy thost; of u« who knew and admired him for what he was—a perfect example 'ti wiiat a Notre Dame man should he. The class of '5.1 extends h< prayers and (h-epest sympathy lo Chefs fa/«ilv. 
Notre Dame v\as more than well represented In the deep south diirim; the Snmnier mouths as 19 of us in the Supply Corps founil rurr-.:!vc5 slaving in the hot Georgia snn. The occasion wxs the lliree-nionih ccmrse at the .Vavy .supply .schoctl in .-Vthens. 
The life was quite plu>h and the base was replete with swimming pool and air-conditioned officers" duh. We did find time to study while we vven­suntaiming. 
I still say that CHUCK BENNETT should have hou^Iit stock In the cool "O " cluli before lie even arrived. They were sorry to see lilni leave when he received orders to the U.S.S. Denehola (AF­")(;). FFO. New York. .N. Y. 
ED KELLY and TO.M PETTERSCH also found 
W.ASHINOTON. D.C.—Dt-'iuocratic Naiional Committee Chairman I'atil Butler, in town for the club'.s Smnmer uolf outing, was commentini; how nice it was to have Demoerats and Notre Dame men together when Jim 0*Laui;hIin declared himself a staunch Republican. That this partictdar political Itattle was all in fun is shown Ijy the e.xpre.ssions of (left to ri.nht) Club President Howard J. Schcllcnbertr. Jr.. Butler. Dr. Matthew J. Sullivan, outint; chairman. Secretary O'Lau^hlin and Trea,surer Walter J. Murphy. 
A'o/rc Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 
GRAND RAPIDS—Bob Linsey (left) receives low gross trophy from last year's winner, Dick McCormick, at alumni golf day event. 
their stay at Athens agreeable and felt that it had 
been •worth it when they \verc both ordered to the 

Xax-al Air Station in Micliigan. They both said 
that they regretted the fact that the Na\y didn't 
have a place for them in Formosa. 
Our group of bachelors dwindled to 16 as three 

of our partners in supply were married before we 
departed ftom the southland. 
GUY PIERCE tied the knot *vith the former 

Miss Pat Ccntli^Te while he was stationed at 
Athens. Guy then received orders to the Na\"al 
.Ammunition Depot at Earle, N. J. 
Before reporting to Athens, FRANK BURKE 

married the former Miss Ann Marshall in New 
York on June II. Frank was ordered to the 
U.S.S. Wisconsin to ser\'e as disbursing officer. 
To round out the nuptial trio, JOE HENEHAN 

married the former Miss Eileen Green, and they 
both will now live in California as Joe has been 
ordered to the Treasure Island Naval Station in 
San Francisco. 
JIM CAHILL has been ordered from Athens to 

the Na\-y Area Audit Office in Boston and will 
spend his t^v•o years of service as a cost inspector 
for the Navy. Jim says that it's time to break 
out the unfinished practice sets. 
FRANK CUNNINGHAM has been ordered to 

the Na\'al Supply Depot at Bayonne, N. J., and 
I have a feeling that his home town of Bound 
Brook, N. J., will be seeing more of him than 
they had hoped. 
The prize for choicest sea duty goes to KD DEMPSEY, although I'm not sure that he would ^rec. Ed reports to the U.S.S. Duxburj* Bay (AVP-38). FPO, New York, N. Y., and should see Europe from top to bottom during his two-year tour. 
JIM DUFFY, who has a yearning for a warm climate, should find the Naval Air Station at Ala­meda, Calif., much to his liking. 
The fact that the accounting majors garnered the shore duty seems rather evident as JOHN HAAHLTON reports to the Naval CIC Officers School at the Na\*al Air Station in Glenview, III. He seems a sure bet for football weekends in South Bend. 
It looks like JOHN ^^'EITHERS will be watching the Irish elex'cn in spirit only, since it's a long way from the Na^-al Station at Key \Vest, Fla., where John is to assume the duties of Na\*y ex­change officer. Since the uniform of the day in the Keys area is Bermuda shorts, I'm taking bets that John will be sporting the most suntanned 
legs in the class. 
HAL WILLENBORG is also a candidate for the 

most travelled ensign in the navy, as he will be 
stationed aboard the U.S.S. Alstedc (AF-48), FPO, 
New York, N. Y. Hal tells me that his ship is due 
for a trip to Cuba and Europe during the next 
year. 
The salt air is already beginning to tarnish the 

gold on PHIL SHERIDAN'S unifonn, as he pre­
pares for a prolonged cruise aboard the U.S.S. 
Hancock (CVA-19), FPO, San Francisco, Calif. 
DICK O'ROURKE found a home in the deep 

south, and the Na\-y obliged by sending him to 
the Na\*al Hospital in Memphis, Tenn. Relax, 
Dick never felt better in his life, but it happens 
that they need supply officers at hospitals, too. 
Last and least, yours truly is stationed at the 
Na\'al Air Station at Olathe, Kan. 
I omitted one name from the supply group 

for a special reason. As the saying goes, "Orchids 
to JACK SORR.ANO." 
As you probably remember. Jack was selected to 

represent Notre Dame at an advertising convention 
in New York over the Easter \'acation. At the 
completion of the convention, each candidate was 
to submit a report which was to be used as the 
basis for an award presented by the sponsors of 
the meeting. 
Jack recently received word that he had been 

au'ardcd the title of ^'Outstanding Advertising Stu­
dent in America." Jack is to be congratulated for 
the fine work that he has done and for the honor 
that he has brought to the University. 
Looking over my notes, I see that I neglected 

to tell you of the fate of two of our other cohorts 
who spent the summer in Athens also. 
GEORGE SHELTON is stationed aboard the pride of the Atlantic fleet, by name, the U.S.S. Taconic (AGC-I7), FPO, New York, N. Y. George wouldn't admit it, but I have a feeling that this is the t>'pc of ship that is welded to the dock. 
The finances of the Na\y are in good hands in the Norfolk, Va., area at least, as JERRY ROE assumes the duties of central disbursing officer at the Na\-al Supply Center. This brings to mind a story about money lenders in the temple. 
Enough about the Na\*y for a time and on to those lucky enough to still be cii'ilians. Received a letter from PAUL FULLMER telling me that he is working for the Aurora Beacon-
Xcws and pounds the tj-pcvvriter for both the news 
and sports section. 
He also reports that he heard from FRANK 

MAIER who is in na\-al officer training at Newf 
port, R. I. Frank is to be married to Miss Ginny 
Ryan on November 12, and from what I hear, 
DICK BURKE, FRANK LOLLI and JOHN 
RY.AN arc going to be tlicre to give Frank some 
needed moral support. 
Paul also mentioned that DICK BEEMAN and 

Miss Sue Carroll were to be married on or about 
September 10. 
As a final note he tells mc that JOE CON­

NOLLY is stationed at Fort Leonard Wood, Mo. 
Through the grapevine I hear that MAX ROES­

LER is putting that accounting degree to work 
with Peat, Mar^vick, an accounting firm in Chicago. . 
I've heard verj- little from the Air Force but 

I understand that BILL STOUTENBURGH, 
GEORGE GIST, JOFF FLYNN and WALT 
KAVfVNAUGH arc stationed at Lackland Air 
Force Base in Texas. With that flight pay a good • 
time should be had by all. ^ 
On the Army side of the ledger, TO^i MAY 

is stationed at Fort Benjamin Harrison in In­
dianapolis. 
JACK STEPHENS married the former Miss 

Dulsa Kallman on September 17 and I understand 
that he plans to play professional basketball with 
St. Louis. 
The news has filtered down that DICK NORTON 

is working for Allied Chemical and is hitting the ; 
books again at C.C.N.Y. night school. The quest 
for knowledge goes on. 
A domesticated life became the direct result of 

being a football manager, as PHIL STUMP and 
the former Miss Louise Mintronc were married on 
September 17. Much akin to this, JIM PORCARI 
married the former Miss Mar>' Elizabeth Davis on 
the I7th of September. 
A June wedding was in order for CONNIE. 

TROGOLO and the former Miss Donna Thomp­
son on the 12lh of the month. 
No, OWEN DUGAN wasn't married, but his 

first love has become the Navy, as he is attending 
Officer's Candidate School in Newport. I hear 
that when he is finished there, he plans to continue 
his military* \'acation at the Na\y Supply Corps 
School in Athens. Sound judgment, to say the 
least. 
The legal picture takes shape as DON ROBIN­

SON again switclies on the neon desk lamp at 
Columbia La\v School. I see a Clarence Darrow 
in the making. Following the legal trail we find 
TOM GALLIGxVN attending DePaul Law School. 
Because of the \'astne5s of the subject, I feel that 

DICK BURKE should again be mentioned. The 
last I heard was that Dick planned to attend the 
University of Chicago Law School, and if I'm in 
error I'll expect an immediate reply from thc^ 
presidential "Walking Laugh." 
MIKE JACKMAN is working for his M.A. in 

Education at Michigan State. 
HARRY EDELSTEIN, ENLMET ROOT, JIM 

CARROL, DICK GAUTHIER, and GENE WAG-. 
NER are also learning the ins and outs of those , 
new fangled jets. 
Tlie law schools of the nation will further notice ; the influx of ND students, as BUTCH VALLACE i starts anew at Fordham and brushes up on his ­court procedure. RON MOTTL is attending the : Notre Dame Law School along with CHUCK DO-• HERT\', and by this time they should know their way around the campus pretty well. RON TAG­LER is cracking the volumes at DePaul Law School, while JOHN RUSSO is burning the mid­night oil at Columbia. Not to be outdone, TOM CAREY and JOHN HARTIGAN are both en­rolled at Northwestern Law School and at the* same time arc not missing any contacts in the Windy City. 
I hear that JOE HOST is tr>ing Iiis hand at the advertising game in Grand Rapids. DAN SHAN­NON was the man of the day as he married the former Miss Kitty Hughes on September 18. 
AVc'rc back to the accounting majors as we re-I port that GEORGE MEYERS is working with an i accounting firm in Chicago. Arthur Anderson ac-• counting firm in St. Louis claims BOB McAUL-' IFFE as one of their new employees. j, 
Spending some time with Uncle Sam we find '; BILL TICE who is in training at Fort Bliss, ; Texas. DON FREUND is also learning the new I developments in ships, shoes and sealing wax at '­the Na\-al Officers Candidate School in Ne\\port. ; JOHN MJ\NIX wears the Air Force blue at Lack-^ land and was able to enjoy a fine summer vacatiom since he didn't report until September 30. ' v 
P. J. SHEEHAN was married to the former | Miss Helen McDermott on September U. I 
62 Notre Dame Alum.nus, November-Decembett 2955 
JOHN M. PATTON, '27 

After his graduation from Notre Dame's College of Commercej John M. Patton, '27j returned home to Mitchell, 
S. Dak. and The Mitchell National Bank. He's been there ever since. 
Jack began as assistant cashier, later 

became vice-president and in 1948 was 
elected to the presidency of the bank. 
Jack is also state vice-president of 

the National Association of Bank Audi­
^r s and Comptrollers and a director 
of the Financial Public Relations Asso­
ciation, Chicago. 
In 1952 he completed a couree spon­

sored by the association at Northwest-
cm University, his thesis on "A Small 
Bank's Public Relations Program" 
being accepted for the association iibraiy. 
; Active in the affaii*s of the American Bankers Association, he has served as 
p. member of its Installment Credit jCoinmittee and is at present a member -of the ABA's Bank Management Com­
mission. He has also been president and vice-president of the South Dakota Bankers Association. 
Patton's part in community affairs has included service as director and president of the Mitchell Chamber of Commerce. 
Married to the former Gertrude iSCennedy since 1935, he has two 'daughters—the oldest a sophomore at St. Mary's of Notre Dame—and a son. 
LOU CENTLIVRE, at the last report, was sur­
vMng basic training at Fort Leonard Wood in 
Missouri. 
JOHN MARCHAL is attending law school at 
Notre Dame. 
After growing oranges in Florida during the 
summer, TED LAUGHLIN has entered George­
town Medical School along with DICK REAMER. 
Scars Roebuck and Co. never had it so good, at 
least in the Chicago area, until TIM SHEA went 
to work for them after graduation. I received a 
letter from Tim asking me to open a Scars charge 
account, but I was turned down. Could it be that 
the Navy doesn't pay me enough? 
I also heard from DxWE METZ during the 
summer, and he said that he had applied for a 
commission in the Na\y. I think that Dave would 
make a good "salt." 
ROBERT W. GREENE, who contracted polio 
last fall while school was undcr^vay and had to 
withdraw, is living in Bethlehem, Pa., and is as­
sociated with his father in business (Greene Light 
Company). Bob attended the SMU game in a 
wheelchair and enjoyed being back on campus. 
From the Reading, Pa.. Eat;Ie comes word that WILLIAM J. MORRIS of 2609 Cumberland Ave., Mount Pcnn, has at the ripe old :^c of 21 been appointed county deputy sheriff. Bill replaces the chief deputy, who resigned but whose duties were split up among the other deputies. Eventually it is planned that Bill take over as real estate deput>'. 
JOHN KRIEG, 759 East Drive, Oradell, N. J., 
has joined the staff of the Esso Research and Engi­
neering Company's process research division. EMIL 
BANAS, who earned his Ph.D. in physics at ND 
last June, is now with the Whiting Research Lab­
oratories staff of the Standard Oil Company (In­
diana). 
In Texas City, Texas, L. R. REINHART has 
become a member of the process section of the 
engineering department of Monsanto Chemical 
Company^s Plastics Division. ^fonsanto Plastics 
engineering department in Springfield, Mass., in­
cludes WALTER J. MINGS. 
Newcomers to the Guided Missiles engineering 
staff of Bcndlt Aviation Corporation in South Bend 
are DON BURKHART and MAURY POZZI, JR. 
BOB BOLGER was awarded the 1955-56 West­
inghousc Educational Foundation fellowship in elec­
trical power systems engineering at Illinois Insti­
nite of Technology. In three semesters, he'll have 
his M.S.E.E. degree. 
R.\LPH GUGLIELMI was one of 32 sports champions and enthusiasts who met with President Eisenhower in July to "plan ways to spur more young /Vmcricans to take part in competitive sports" as a means of improving physical stand­ards and reducing Juvenile delinquency. 
Ralph also distinguished himself in Chicago on the evening of August 12, as ever\-body probably has heard. "Goog'* was the only offensive quarter­back used by the .All-Stars against the Cleveland Browns and was voted the game's outstanding player for leading the Stars to their upset victory. 
BOB ZEIS is now in the advertising depart­ment of the Denver Post. DON HUML reports that he is now located at 
•H-2 N. Norton, Tucson, Ariz., and is head foot­ball coach at the Salpointe High School in Tucson. 
I've got a list of the fellows who graduated from the Na\'y unit at school and also included in the list arc the ships and stations to which they were assigned. 
However, the names only wouldn't do any of you much good, because I'm not sure which fleet their ships arc operating in. They wouldn't be able to get the maii if this weren't included. 
So, I'm counting on you Na\->' people to notify me of the FPO address, and I'll pass the infor­mation along in the next column. Just sit down with a cup of coffee in the wardroom and it shouldn't take you but a few minutes. 
JI.M HESBURGH took time out from his mili­tar%- duties to marry the former Miss Mar>* Teresa Kelly on September 17. The wedding took place in Manlius, N. Y. 
At this point I have to offer an apology to JOE FONTANA. I received a letter from Joe which contained some choice tidbits of class ncw3. I was given the letter while sitting in class at Athens and when I left three hours later for lunch, the note was nowhere to be found. Keep the notes coming, Joe, and I promise that I'll guard them with my life the next time. 
Well, that just about does it for this time. I've only heard from a few of you but I realize that you've been pretty busy. The length of the col­umn depends on you and as you report it, I'll write it. Good luck! 
JOHN W. O'BRIEN, '48 

From bookkeeper to bank officer in less than seven years is the progress made by John VV. O'Erien, '48, since graduating from Notre Dame. The board of directors of the St. Joseph Bank & Trust Co. of South Bend re­cently appointed O'Brien vice-presi­dent in charge of the Commercial Loan Department. 
John has the distinction of having entered Notre Dame three times—each in a different college. He first en­rolled in 1941 as an engineering stu­dent. After a semester of school and one of working, he returned to N.D. in 1942 as an arts & letters student. 
A member of the Army Reserve, he was called to duty in 1943 and served as a radio operator during the Italian campaign. Reentering the University in February 1946, this time in the College of Commerce, he was gradu­ated in August 1948. 
O'Brien began in the South Bend bank's bookkeeping department, pro­gressed through various other depart­ments and was elected assistant vice-president, the post he held prior to his latest advancement. 
He and his \vife, the former Nancy Lee Henderson of South Bend, and their four children live at 2516 S. Twyckenham Drive, South Bend. 
His father, the late John J. O'Brien, was a trustee of the University and board chairman of the South Bend Lathe Works. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1955 63 
The Alumni Association 
University of Notre Dame 
Fellow Alumni: Novembers, 1955 
Since the last communication we have seen many rcmarkable changes on the campus, the Pangbom Residence Hall, Notre Dame Book Store, Sculpture Studio and AVNDU-TV Station. 
The Pangbom Residence Hall is located between Fisher Hall and The Rockne Memorial. The Notre Dame Book Store is the gift of Mr. and Mrs. Romy Hammes: it is located between the Post-Office and Badin Hall. The. Sculpture Studio, the result of another generous contribution by the O'Shaughnessys of $75,000, is.adjacent to the Liberal" and Fine Arts Building. The Sculpture Studio was built for the special use of the internationally renowned sculptor. Professor Ivan Mestrovic. \VNDU-TV is located immediately north of the Naxf^- Drill, Hall. In the near future ground will be broken for another refectory and two residence halls. 
The Congregation of Holy Cross Fathei-s arc making ever)' effort to accommodate all the students on campus: thus fulfilling one of the essential objectivesof the Univei-sity. One misses the atmosphere so essential to Notre Dame life, if not a member of the campus student body. 
The additions to the Univereity plans are directed towards one goal, to accommodate comfortably the undergraduates and graduate students in residence and class room, to give the student the most ad­vanced facilities for a thorough education both materially and spiritually. The tirelessness of the members of the Congregation of Holy Cross to achieve these objectives is always a source of amazement to the Alumni. 
The Alumni Board met the week-end of the Notre Dame-Indiana game. It discussed many prob­lems that concern all alumni. 
The Board attended the President's luncheon, the dedication of the television station WNDU-TV, and the conclave, at which meeting the University conferred the degree of Doctor of Science on General David Samoff. The general's speech of acceptance \vas impressive. My inference was that the most im­portant impact that could be made upon the world at this time is Sound Morality. A veiy appropriate subject in an appropriate atmosphere, because nowhere has that subject been so intensely treated as at our Alma Mater. 
The Alumni Board brings to your attention constantly two essential and related subjects. Prestige and Public Relations. Each helps to solve many of the problems of financial support and enrollment for the University. They are the unlimited challenge to Alumni. It is the Alumni Board's earnest prayer that the individual alumnus nourishes theni constantly t'''" we may enhance our Association's standing; thus assisting Notre Dame's every objectivel 
Sincerely, 
LEO D. O'DONNELL, M.D., President. 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRES 














