The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
JAMES E. AIUkfSTRONG, '23 
'• Vol. 40, No. 5 
Editor JOHN F. LAUGHUN, '48 

November, 1962 
k
Managing Editor 


Nona: 
• , look 
DAME 
ALUMNUS 
(• 
CANDIDATES FOR 1963 ALUMNI BOARD 
(Vote for four on official ballot, sent separately) 
GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR. A.B. (economics) '43 magna cum laxtde; 
LL.B. '49. Bradley Beach, N.J. Lawyer (Durand, Ivins & Carton, Asbury Park, N.J.) and Commis­sioner of Bradley Beach, George is best known among Notre Dame men as secretary-columnist for the Class 

of 1944 and president of the newly (% organized Notre Dame Club of the Jersey Shore. He is married and has a small daughter. 
George is affiliated with the Class of '44 with which he entered the University, having received his degree during the accelerated program of World War II. Among many activities as a student, he was business manager of the Glee Club and performed in the student musicals of the Forties. 
During World War II he served with the Army In­fantry and Signal Corps, participated in the New Guinea and Philippine campaigns, and was an interpreter for war prisoners. 
After graduation from law school, George ser\'ed his 

'% clerkship with New Jersey Supreme Court Justice Haydn Proctor. He was admitted to the New Jersey Bar as an attomey-at-law in 1949 and as a counsellor-at-law in 1955. He was admitted to practice before the U.S. Supreme Court 
in 1957. Besides his law practice, he is serving as a vice-president of the Monmouth County Bar Association. George is currently serving his second term as a Com­
missioner in Bradley Beach. In 1960 he received the dis­tinguished service a\vard of the Greater Asbury Park Jimior Chamber of Commerce. He has been a trustee of the Mon­mouth County Legal Aid Society since 1958, is a trustee of the Knights of Columbus, and this year was elected charter president of the Jersey Shore Alumni Club. He has served as secretary of his class for the past 10 years. Married to the former Susan Joy Perrella of Interlaken, 
N.J., George has one daughter, Cynthia. 
V V V 
CARL F. EIBERGER. B.S. (chem.) '52, magna cum laude; LL.B. '54, magna cum laude. Denver Colo. Lawyer (Akolt, Tumquist, Shepherd & Dick, Denver) and specialist in public utility-corporation practice, Carl has been with the firm since February, 1957. First two-term presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of Denver, he has been active in every 


HAVE YOU PARTICIPATED IN NOTRE DAMPS CHALLENGE? 
CHRISTMAS CARDS 

Tfiof Help The Missions 
Little Angels FEATURE —1962 or Impressive cards de­
Holy Night Tradilionals 
signed by our men study­ing for the priesthood: 
J. Florent, CS,.C. ('60) 
21 cards for $1.00 
M. Yrrarazaval, CS.C. ('63) 
D. Arcndt, CS.C ('65) 


Write: 
MOREAU SEMINARY Mission Society 15 cards for $1.00 Notre Dame, Indiana (all one kind or assorted) 

phase of club activit)' and the programs of the N.D. Founda­tion. He is married and has an infant daughter. 
Carl supplemented his six-year science-law course at Notre Dame with a night school M.B.A. from Denver U. in 1959. On campus he worked his way literally through school, averaging 30-40 hours a week as a dishwasher, librarian, lab assistant, guide and tutor. Independent from the age of 13, he worked summers super\'ising a dairy lab and came to N,D. with eight high school scholarship awards. Editor-in-chief of the Notre Dame Lawyer and winner of the 1953 Dean's Award, he represented the University in National Moot Court Arguments. Co-director of the Moot Court Assn. and on the Science Dean's List he was a Scholastic, Law Review and Moot Court staffer. 1956-57 Army service as an enlisted man in medical and legal units prevented acceptance in the first U.S. Justice Dept. At­torney General's Honors program. 
In his law practice, Carl is a member of the Colorado, Michigan and Federal Bars; Colorado, Denver, Michigan and N.D. Law Assns. Active in Bar Assn., community, parish and charitable activities, he's a director of Prospect Park & Recreation District; co-founder and officer of Apple-wood Athletic Club. Denver N.D. Club president 1960-62, he has been vice-president, secretary and continues as a director, scholarship-interview-prep school chairman, assis­tant in both general and special Foundation appeals, etc. Married to the former Margurette I. Dickerson, he has a daughter, Eileen Marie, bom last May 26. 

V V V 
PAUL I. FENLON. A.B. '19, LL.B. '20, M.A. '22. Notre Dame, Ind. Retired (since December 31, 1961) Professor of English at the Univer­sity', where he had been teaching since 1920. Teacher, counselor and friend of thousands of Notre Dame men, his room at Sorin Hall has be­come an unoificial alumni head­quarters on campus. Unmarried, Paul hcis devoted his life to sharing his knowledge of life and letters with students through more than 40 years. 

Bom in Blairsville, Pa., of two Irish parents (two sisters attended St. Mary's College across the highway), Paul has supplemented his Notre Dame degrees with graduate work at Harvard and advanced training in creative writing at \vriters' conferences such as the famous Breadloaf, con­ducted at Vermont's Middlebur)' College. Introducing gen­erations of freshmen to college English, he specialized in English and American literature, especially the novel and short story. He particularly delighted in exposing Engineer­ing and Commerce (now Business Administration) students to the grandeur of superior fiction. For many years he ser\'ed as assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
A one-man prep school committee, Paul has personally influenced the decision of dozens of young men to attend Notre Dame and has given freely of his time to advise stu­dents and help them with their problems. 
Like most of the "old guard" teachers, he has always carried too heavy a load of teaching hours to give much time to writing for publication. A writer of book reviews, he is still collecting material for his magnum opus, a book he has projected for many years. His affiliations include the American Assn. of University Professors and the Indiana Club. A long list of hobbies includes bridge, travel and, of course, chronic bibliomania. 

V V V 
MORTON R . GOODMAN. LL.B. '30. Los Angeles, Calif. Law^'er (self-em­ployed), recently President of the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles and that club's N.D. Man of the Year for 1961. A musician and troubadour since school days, Mort has composed a Notre Dame Alumni Song which was programmed and sung by the Glee Club at the 1962 

Commencement. 
Bom in New York City, he grew up in Chicago, went to grammar and high school there and spent a year at the University of Chicago. He enrolled at Notre Dame in the spring of 1927 and received hb law degree three years later. On the campus Mort was active with the Glee Club, Law Club and Chicago Club. After graduation he returned to Chicago to practice law and later ser\'ed as a zone at­torney for the Federal Housing Administration. During ^Vorld War II he served in the Army from July, 1943, to September, 1945, returning to the FHA where his legal work covered a ten-state area. Joining a real estate and investment firm, he moved to Los Angeles in 1948, was admitted to the Bar there in 1950 and went into private law practice. 
Mort lives in the Hollywood section of L.A., and his office is located in Beverly Hills. His professional afBUa­tions include the Beverly Hills and Los Angeles County Bar Assns., the National Panel of Arbitrators and the American Arbitration Assn. Formerly a member of the N.D. Club of Chicago, he was one of the organizers of that city's N.D. 
Alumni Glee Club in the Thirties. A member of the Los Angeles Club since 1948, he has served since 1958 as Area Chairman for the Notre Dame Foundation. He was chair­man of Universal Notre Dame Night in 1960, president of the L.A. Club (1960-62) and was honored by fellow mem­bers in mid-term. 
Dedicated to the University and Notre Dame men, Mort once rebuked a Chicago columnist who expressed surprise that a Notre Dame club should have a Jewish president. He cited the names of prominent "Irish" of his and Protestant faiths. 
V V V 
JAMES M. HAMILTON. B.C.S. 
(Finance), '35, magna cum laude. 
Racine, Wis. President, Greene 
Manufacturing Company, Inc., Ra­
cine. A former city chairman for 
the Notre Dame Foundation, Jim 
was president of the Class of 1935 
(1955-60) and one of the founding 
fathers of the N.D. Club of South­
eastern Wisconsin. He is married and has five children. 
Bom in Racine on Memorial Day, Jim attended local schools before matriculating at Notre Dame. On campus he was on the President's Council as president of the Servers Club and also active in the Linnets (student musicals), Inter-Hall Debate and the Milwaukee Club. At graduation he went to work for his father's Dumore Company and left there in 1950 after having been vice-president (manufac­turing and engineering) and a director for a number of 
BROTHEIS OF HOir C/tOSS 

Dujarie Foreign Mission Society 
Dujarie Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 




Annual Christmas Card Drive 
(Benefit of Foreign Missions) 
A beautiful assortment of religious cards 
$].00 per box 
MAIL TO ABOVE ADDKESS 



«ii»iaiiBiw»«a««i»ii>'»a«a»aa»M«t*«i>w»w»'aa>«i«<a«8ii»«>i»a»« 

years, as well as president of the Dumore Co. of New York. In 1950 he assumed the presidency of Greene Mfg. Co. (mouldings, stampings, assemblies), and he is in that posi­tion at present. Business aifiliadcsis include directorships in Racine's North Side Bank and the James S. Rickey Con­struction Company, Portland, Ore. 
Besides his alumni and Foundation activities, Jim has been president of the Racine Theater Guild, a director of the Curative Workshop and Chamber of Commerce. He is a board member of the Racine Boy Scouts (formerly vice-president and president) and president of the Racine Community Chest (formerly campaign chairman). His fraternal affiliations include the Knights of Columbus (4th­Degree), the Elks, Rainbo Lodge (director) and the Racine Country Club (past director). 
Jim and his wife Louise were married in 1945. They now have five children, t\vo sons and three daughters. Jim's brother, Robert L. Hamilton, '34, is president of Dumore, former N.D. Foundation governor for Wisconsin and cur­rently chairman of the Advisory Council for the College of Business Administration. 

V V V 

JOHN T. MASSMAN. B.S. (Civil 
Engineering), '56. Kansas City, Mo. 
Vice-President of Massman Con­
struction Co., Kansas City. John 
is a former president (for three 
years) and secretary (two years) of 
the Notre Dame Club of Kansas 
City. Member of an all-N.D. fam­
ily, John is married and the father 
of a three-year-old daughter. 

A native of Kansas City, John attended parochial schools there and in Tucson, Ariz. He prepped at Rockhurst High, Kansas City. After a year at Rockhurst College, he enrolled at Notre Dame in civil engineering. On the campus he served as an officer for three years and ultimately president of both the N.D. chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineers and the Kansas City Club. In his senior year he was also vice-chairman of the Engineering Advisory Council and the Engineers Ball. Summers he worked as a laborer, construction superintendent and delivery boy. After graduation he went to work with Massman Construction. 
As vice-president, John oversees the Massman specialty, heavy construction. He is on the Board of Directors of the Heavy Constructors Assn. of Kansas City, the Mississippi Valley Flood Control Branch of the Associated General Contractors (Memphis, Tenn.), and the Mississippi Valley Assn. District 5. He is a permanent member of the Labor-Management Committee and Labor N^;otiating Commit­tees of the Associated General Contractors of Missouri and the Heavy Constructors Assn. He has served as chairman and member of other A.G.C. of M. committees, including Public Relations and Education, Accident Preventiwi and Corps of Engineers Co-op. 
John was president (1959-62) and secretary (1957-59) of the K,C. Club. He is on the Board of the Starlight Theatre Assn., a member of the Army Reserve and a 3rd Degree Knight of Columbus. In 1958 he married Carolyn Sue Pfeifer of Maryville, Mo., and their daughter was bom in September, 1959. Also alumni are John's father, Henrj' 
J. Jr., '28, and two brothers, Henrj' J. Ill, '53, and Robert J., '58. 

V V V 
VINCENT J. REISHJIAN. B.C.S. 
(marketing & finance), '35. Charles­
ton, AV. Va. Self-employed, Presi­
dent and owner of Village Hard­
ware Co., Charleston, Vince Reish­
man is Notre Dame Foundation 
Governor for \Vest Virginia and co-
founder of the Notre Dame Club 
of West Virginia, which organiza­

tion he has served twice as presi­dent. He is married and has three sons. 
He was bom in St Marj's, AV. Va., on August 15, 1911, but he has been a resident of Charleston for all but tlie first year since tlicn. Graduated from Sacred Heart High School, Charleston, in 1930, he entered Notre Dame the same year and thus feels stronger ties to die Class of '34 than to the class of his graduation in Commerce. He was active in the Blue Circle and West Virginia campus clubs and (witii Bob Cahill) was reception co-chairman for the 1934 Senior Ball. 
Besides his hardware business, Vince is a member of the City Council of Charleston, \V. Va. He is also a member of tlie Board of Directors of Cit)' National Bank, Charleston. He was in on the founding of die AVest Virginia N.D. Club in the late Tliirties and last served as president in 1953-55. In addition to his Foundation responsibilities in the state, he is currently president of the Serra Club of Charleston. 
Vince and his wife, the former Dorothy Stark, have been married since 1939. Their eldest son, John, 21, is a senior at the University this year. A contributor to The Juggler, student literary quarterly, since his freshman year, John is now editor. Robert, 17, is a senior in high school and an applicant for admission to Notre Dame in Septem­ber, 1963. James, 12, aspires to be enrolled in 1967. 
ALUMNUS Magazine 
Vol. 40, No. 5 November, 1962 Nofre Dame, Ind. 
Return Requested 
fUSa^^^tiZ-fX WILLIAM LANCASTER SMITH . 
LL.B. '50. Dallas, Tex. Lawyer (partner in firm of Turner, White, Atwood, Meer & Francis), former president of the Notre Dame Club of Dallas and officer of the Mono­gram Club, Lank Smith was Dallas' 1954 Notre Dame Man of the Year. He is married and has eight chil­dren. 

Lank attended St. Augustine School in his native Leb­anon, Ky., and came to Notre Dame for a semester in 1942 before three years' service in the Air Corps during World War II. He returned in 1946 to complete his law studies, playing halfback on Notre Dame's undefeated National Championship football teams of 1946, 1947 and 1943 before graduation in 1950. 
Serving a stint as coach of the University's freshman football team. Lank went on to coach Dallas' Jesuit High for six years and guided the school to its first T.C.I.L. State Championship and its first and only wins over the city's high schools. He turned down offers of assistant coaching jobs from Notre Dame, Kentucky, Tulane, and the Balti­more Colts to remain in Dallas and practice law. A mem­ber of the Indiana, Kentucky, Texas and American Bar Assns., he was assistant district attorney from 1954 through 1957. 
Three times a vice-president of the Notre Dame Mono­gram Club, Man of the Year Smith became president of the Dallas Club in 1958. Civic ser\'ice has included presi­dency of the Dallas Citizens for Decent Literature, vice-presidency of the national Societ)' of die Cincinnati, cita­tion for speeches on brotherhood by the National Con­ference of Christians and Jews, and work in various com­munity drives. Recipient of the Bishop Gorman Holy Trinity Medal, he has been regular announcer for the Texas Catholic TV News show, a member of Serra and Grand Knight of Dallas K. of C. Council 799 1959-61 when it grew from third to largest in the state. Lank and his wife Jacquelyn Ann, (daughter of Dr. and Mrs. John Hilbert of South Bend) have seven sons and a daughter. 
Entered as Second Class matter October 1, 1939, at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Auffust 24, 1912.' 

U.N.D. COMMUNION SUNDAY December 9. Theme: 
"The Ecumenical Council" 








