The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
^H E NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
i  
v.a S^4^E,.v0v^  
IN THIS ISSUE Nieuwiand Foundation Notre Dame's 96th Vear Faculty Changes Spotlight Alumni Football Season  
Campus News Club News Class News  

THE STADIUM 
1. 16 October, 1937 No. 1 
AGAINI 
FRIDAY NIGHT 

ONm^'^ 
OCT. 151 

;^ ; iocal ne»-spaper for 

PONTIACS FAMOUS 
SHOW 
4N AUTHENTIC CKOSS-SKTION OF THE FINEST TALENT OF AMERICA'S GREAT UNIVERSITIES BROADCAST 
DIRECT FROM THE CANIPUS OF EACH SCHOOL 
At the request of University alumni and students all over the country, and of the general public, Pontiac, builder of the Silver Streak Six and Eight, will continue to produce "Varsity Show," the radio sensation of last winter and spring. An entirely new list of colleges will be given an opportunity to display their finest musical and dramatic talent in shows just as interesting and lively as those that won America before. Opened by the University of Alabama, followed by Purdue, Southern Methodist, Virginia, Fordham, and Indiana, among many others, the new series can be counted upon to give you again "the gayest show on the air." 
PRESENTED BY­


BUILDER OF AMERICA'S FINEST LOW-PRICED CAR 
1^7/3f 
V. 1^ 



The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E, ARMSTRONG. "25 The mnjmzine is published from October to June inclusive by the Alumni Association Member of (he American of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is S2.00 
Editor Alumni Council. 
a year; the price of sincle copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of §3.00 include WiLUAM R. DOOLEY. '26 a year's subscription to THE ALUSINUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, Member of Nat'l. Catholic Managing Editor Alumni Federation 
192". at the post oflice at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1879, 
Vol. 16 OaOBER, 1937 No. 
C.C^ 
137736 

Perpetuating a Work of Genius 
BY REV. JOHN F. O'HARA, C.S.C. President of the University of Notre Dame 
To honor the memory of one of her greatest sons, and to carry on the scientific research which he inaugur­ated, the University of Notre Dame has established the Julius A. Nieuw­land Memorial Foundation. Many friends of the late Father Nieuwland have urged this project, and it is to them that the University must look for the necessary financial support.. 
The aim of the Foundation is to continue projects already instituted by the man whose discoveries made possible the manufacture of synthetic rubber on a commercial basis; and to seek other outlets for pure research which, if successful, will redound to the benefit of American industry and workers. 
It is evident that synthetic rubber establishes an automatic control in the world market which reduces the monopoly price of raw materials and makes it feasible for the rubber in­dustry in this country to continue to produce tires and similar products at a price which the general public can afford to pay. 
. This was explained by Francis P. Garvan, president of the Chemical Foundation, Inc., in an address be­fore the Reciprocal Trade Agreement committee at Washington on Dec. 13, 1934, when he said: "We consume 6S per cent, of the world's production of rubber. In 1920, we imported 925,­S7S,000 pounds at an average of 5i.G cents, for. which we paid $505,818,000. This year, ice are i^ughly importing the savte amount for ivhich we will probably pay an average of 14 cents, at a cost to ns therefor of $130,000,­
000. In 192e, under the Stevenson plan (in reality an English-Dutch cartel) the price wa.'i driven as high as $1.25 a pound. In 1034 the Stev­enson plan has been revived, but tin­der a tighter cartel, and the onli/ reason, as announced in the English press, that the price is not driven up to our people, as it was in 1920, is the fear of encouraging the develop­ment of Duprene. In other words, this discovery even now is possibly saving 
REV. JULIUS -A.. NIEUWLAND, C.S.C. 
us at the rate of .$.775,000,000 a year." 
The general benefit of society wil! 
continue to be the aim of the Uni­versity's research, through this Foun­dation as in other projects. 
The Foundation proposes the fol­lowing immediate objectives: 
A chair of oman^c chcmisto' ——$125,000.00 A visitinf; professors' endowment 125,000.00 3 research fcilon-ships, at $25,000 ea. 125,000 00 A lecture foundation endowment 50,000.00 A librao* and rcsearcli-materials fund 73.000.00 A cliemistry laboratory buildinfr 500,000.00 
The University is happy to an­nounce that the initial gift to the Julius A. Nieuwland Foundation, of $10,000.00, came from the Chemical Foundation, of New York, through the generous interest of its President, Francis P. Garvan. Additional gifts of $8,928.05 have already been added to the principal of this fund. The University cherishes the hope that far-sighted men and women every where will join with the friends of Father Nieuwland in perpetuating the work begun at Notre Dame by this humble genius. 
University Begins Its 96th Year 
Distinguished by a capacity enroll­ment for the second consecutive year and by the opening of Zahm Hall, a new residence for Freshmen, the 96th academic year of the University began on Sept. 16. The latest figures showed a total registration, graduate and undergraduate, of 3,008 for the year. 
When, in late July, all campus residence accommodations had been assigned registration was officially closed except for students regularly residing within commuting distance of the campus. It was necessary, consequently, for the Registrar's Of­fice to return in August and early September the applications of scores of prospective students who had "waited too long." 
Zahm Hall, the "twin" of Cavan­augh opened a year ago, was finished by Thomas Hickey, general contract­or, just in time to permit tlje Fresh­men to take possession promptly. Built alongside St. Edward's hall— the one-story extension of St. Ed's was torn down to make way for it— Zahm is directly opposite Cavanaugh, also a freshman hall, and is similar to it in all respects. It has accom­modations for 193 men. 
With the construction of Cavan­augh and Zahm halls, the freshman population of the campus is concen­trated in the territory immediately to the east of the Main Building. Brownson and Freshman halls, in addition to Cavanaugh and Zahm.. house the newcomers. Carroll, Lyons, Morrissey and Badin are for Sopho­mores; Howard, Dillon and St. Ed­
ward's for Juniors; and Sorin, Walsh and Alumni for Seniors. 
Only four new hall rectors are listed for the current year. Rev. John Molter, C.S.C, is the first superior of the new Zahm Hall; Eev. Stanislaus Lisewski, C.S.C, is the rector of Cavanaugh, Rev. John Ryan, C.S.C, of Dillon and Brother Patrick, C.S.C. of Brownson. Rev. George Marr, C.S.C, after a leave of absence to attend the Eucharistic Congress in Manila, is back at his old post as rector of Walsh. Father Ryan was the Walsh rector in his absence. 
The complete list of rectors and 
prefects for the year follows: 
SORIN—Hector: Rev. John Farley, C.S.C.. and Rev. Charles Dorcmus. C.S.C. 
WAISH—Rector: Rev, George J. Marr, C,S.C.: Rev. Ravmond Murray, C.S.C.. and Rev, ComoHus Hooj-boer. C.S.C. 
AliUMNI—Rector: Rev. Henry Glueckert. C.S.C.: Rev. James Stack. C.S.C, and Rev. Robert Woodward, CS.C. 
DILLON—Rector: Rev. John Ryan. C.S.C.: Rev. Norbert Hoff: Rev. Edward Keller, G,S.C.: Rev, James Fofrarty, C.S.C, and Tliomas Madden. 
HOWARD—Rector: Rev. Peter Forrestal, C.S.C.: Rev. J. T. Purtill: Rev. Joseph Cor­coran, C.S.C.: John Whitman and Rev. Fran­cis J. Nowakowski, CS.C. 
MORRISSBlf-Rector: Rev. Georce Holder­ith, CS.C: Rev. James McDonald. CS.C: Rev. Francis Butler. C.S.C. and Francis O'Mallcy. 
LYONS — Rector: Rev. Thomas Kcllj-. C,S.C.: Rev. John Kellej-, C.S.C., and Rev. Theodore Mehlinc. C.S.C. 
BADIN—Rector: Rev. Joseph Mucfcenthaler. CS.C; Eev. Bernard McAvoy, C.S.C, and Henry Hickey. 
ST. EDWARD'S—Rector: Rev. Leo Gor­man. C.S.C.: Rev. Thomas Brennan. CS.C.: Rev. John Reddincton, CS.C, and Brother Borromeo, CS.C. 
FRESHMAN—Rector: Rev. John O'Connell. C.S.C, and Rev. John M. Dupuis. CS.C. 
C.4V.4NAUGH — Rector: Rev. Stanislaus Lisewski, CS.C.: Rev. Henry BolEer. C.S.C. and Rev. Francis Boland. CS.C. 
ZAHM—Rector: Eev. John Molter, C.S.C.: Rev. Frederick Gassensmith, CS.C, and Rev. James Kline, CS.C. 
CARROLL — Rector: Brother Maurilius, CS.C : Brother Aloysius, C.S.C, and Brother Columbanus, C.S.C. 
BROWNSON — Rector: Brother Patrick. CS.C.: Brother Donald. C.S.C.: Brother Pius. CS.C, and Brother Edear. CS.C 
The academic year was formally opened on Sunday, Sept. 18, with a solemn Mass in Sacred Heart church. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, vice-president» was the celebrant; Rev. J, Leonard Carrico, director of studies, deacon; and Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, sub-deacon. Rev. Fran­cis Wenninger, C.S.C, dean of the College of Science, was the master of ceremonies. The lay faculty attended in cap and gown. An impressive ser­mon on the antecedents, the begin­nings and meaning of Notre Dame was preached by Rev. .John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president. 
Extensive remodeling was done in the course of the Simimer on Science Hall. Following the transfer of many former Science Hal) classes and func­tions t» the new Biology Building, now in full use for the first time, 

The Notre Dame Alumnus October. 1937 

1937 Legal Directory 
Additions and Changes 
CALIFORNIA MICHIGAN 
Los Angeles Detroit 
CUSACK. William J.. LL.B, "14 HIGGINS. John T., Ph.B. Com.. 72 Derthick. Cusack & Ganahl 1632 Buhl BIdg. 300 Garfield BUg. 
Muskegon 
ILLINOIS FREDERICK. John F., A.B. '28 
309 Hackley Union NaH Bank BIdg. 
Robh 
BRADBURY. William £.. LL.B, •16 MINNESOTA 
Second National Bank BIdg. 

Lc Center
120 Main Street KOLARS, Charles C—deceased. 
INDIANA 

SI. Paul Fort IVa^ne 
DALY. Dennis D.. A.B.. "28 HASLEY. Henry. A.B, -28. LL.B.. "29 
1101-04 Commerce BIdg. 404 Peoples Trust BIdg., Anthony 7100 FOGERTY, Robert P.. A.B„ "28 1919 Kenwood Avenue. Anthony 59934 
College of St. Thomas 

Indianapolis MONTANA 
Butte
FANSLER, Hon. Michael, cs. '05 

Stale House DOWNEY. Timothy E., LL.B.. ^14 1409 N.. New Jersey Sired District Judge of Bulle 
SMITH, Paul J. LLB., -16 NEW YORK Regional Office HOLC 

Bayside, L. I.
National Bank BIdg. 
TOUHY. Albert J., A.B.. "31 
Richmond 
40-21 Bell Avenue 

HARRINGTON, J. Ross, LL.B. "29 3629 20l5t Street Dickinson Trust Company BIdg. 
Nen York City South Bend 
FALLON. Frank X.. Jr.. A.B.. 33 Simpson. Thacher. & Bartlelt GRAHAM. Archibald G.. LL.B.. "37 120 Broadway 

J.M.S. Building SHEA. Robert D.. A.B. 72 
HARTZER, Norman J., Ph.B. 
B.C.L. Oxford -25, MA.U. of Paris Com.. •29. LL.B.. •SI Chadbourne, StanchBeld. & Levy I.O.O.F. BIdg.. 4-3232 25 Broadway 

643 Forest Avenue OHIO 
McMICHAEL. Guy H.. LL.B.. "37 

Da}/ton
J.M.S. BIdg. JOHNSTON, J. Farrell. LL.B.. 74 NIEMIEC John W.. LL.B., ^23 630 Gas 8c Electrical BIdg. 
Union Trust Blldg, 3-1886 428 Sunnyside Ave. SOUTH DAKOTA 
Sioux Falls
TULCHINSKY. Maurice M., A.B.. ^36 

LLB., 37 FEYDER. T. N , LL.B.. '14 320 I.O.O.F. BIdg. Western Surely BIdg. 
there was need for a basic rearrange­FOOTBALL WEEK-ENDS ment of many of the Science Hall 
As it has been done in the past two classrooms and laboratories. 

years, the St. Joe Valley Club will again have pre-game smokers in Returning alumni will immediately South Bend on the Friday nights be­miss the old off-campus office, form­fore the home games. All alumni erly the porter's lodge, which stood and their friends are welcomed at opposite the old postoffice. That was these affairs. Out - of - town alumni demolished in the Summer and the can get from the Alumni Office full ground in front of it landscaped. The information as to time and place. 
old postoffice was moved a year ago and attached to the north side of The New York City Club will have Chemistry Hall where it serves as a its annual dinner on the Saturday chemistry library. night of the Army game, November 
13. Details as to time and place will 
The campus beautification program be in the November ALUMNUS. continued intensively with the result The Twin City Club will have a that grass now grows where grass dinner on the Friday night preceding never grew before. The new plaza, the Minnesota game and a dance fol­near the southern end of the campus, lowing the game on Saturday, Octo­is particularly impressive after con­ber 30. Both functions will be at tinued attention and a Summer of the St. Paul Hotel in St. Paul, the ample rain. official Notre Dame headquarters. 





UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS 
T
HE CATHOLIC objective in edu­cation is to prepare a good citi­zen, not only of this -world, but also of the next," said Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame, speaking on the Church of the Air program over a CBS network on Sunday, September 12. The pro­gram, carried from noon until 12:30 p.m., originated in the studios of WFAM, The South Bend Tribune station, and was heard over more than 100 stations in the United States and Canada. The title of the talk was "Objectives in Education." 
"The Catholic church," Father O'Hara said, "feels so strongly the necessity of making eternal life the primary objective in education that she has built up in this country at the cost of hundreds of millions of dollars, a complete system of schools. Along with instruction in the schools, permeating not only the instruction but every phase of student life, the church provides instruction in the eternal truths of the supernatural life and practice of the supernatural vir­tues, as well as a discipline and a sacramental ministry that strengthen the will in the development of strong and good character." 
C
ATHOLIC art lost one of its lead­ing exponents and the University one of its most talented professors on August 16 when Emil Jacques, 63 years old, head of the Department of Art, was drowned in Intermediate Lake, near Petoskey, Michigan, while visiting in the summer home of Pro­fessor Robert Lee Greene. Death was attributed to a heart attack. 
Professor Jacques was buried in Cedar Grove cemetery near the cam­pus after the solemn funeral Mass in Sacred Heart Church in which Father John F. O'Hara, president of the University, was the celebrant. Father Hugh O'Donnell, C. S. C, vice president, the deacon, and Father John Bednar, C.S.C, a former pupil of Professor Jacques, the sub-deacon. The only surviving members of Pro­fessor Jacques' immediate family are two sisters, one in Belgium, the other a nun in England. He was married in 1912 in Antwerp, but his wife died in 1914. 
Professor Jacques was bom in Flanders; was educated largely in Belgium, and had done important art work there before he came to this country in 1923 to organize the art department in Portland University, in Portland, Oregon. He became head of the Notre Dame Department in 1929. His most notable recent work was a series of murals for Sa­cred Heart Cathedral in Portland, Oregon, which had been completed and installed in the church only a year before his death. Done in a strikingly modem manner, the mu­rals have elicited wide comment and large praise. 

A 
LARGE collection of artistic pho­tographs taken by Mrs. Frank E. Hering was exhibited by her in July in the parlor of the Main Building. They were viewed by a large group of Summer School students. 
T
HE Lay Retreat in early August attracted a considerable group of alumni from nearby spots and one. Gene Blish, '34, from distant fields. 
Father Leo Flood, C.S.C, was the retreat master. General arrangements were in charge of Father Patrick Dolan, C.S.C, head of the Mission Band, assisted by Father J. E. Hart, C.S.C., and Father E. R. Fitzgerald, C.S.C. 
The Alumni Office caught sight of the following at the Retreat, although there were doubtless others present: 
Eujrene Blish. '3-1. Denver: Harotd Wat5on. 

•25, Milwaukee: E. McKeown, '28, Chicaso: Howard Phalin, '28, Chicaso: Georse Bis­cholt, '25, Indianapolis: Henry Hasley, '23, Fort Waynj; John H. Cushman, '25, Kitan­ninjr. Pa.: John Wallace. '27, Calumet City, III.: Otis Winchester. '29, Cleveland: Martin Schnur, '05, Goshen, Ind.: Louis BruKjTner, '23, South Bend. 
Norman Hartzer, '29, South Bend: Joseph Nyikos, '23, South Bend: GeorRc Koch, '23, South Bend: Joe Druecker, '37, Chicago; Les­ter Kempe, '09, ChicaRo: Ed Ficel, '11, Chi­cnKo: John M. Thiele, '97, Whitinpr, Indiana. 
Byron Kanaley. 'O-I, Chicago: Henry Hum­brecht, '34, Ft. Wa>-ne; E Fennell, ex. '3(1, Grand Rapids: Leo Walsh, '28, Grand Rapids: John Bergan, '31, South Bend: Frank Miles, e-'c. '22, South Bend: William V. Parish. '12. Momence, III.: Vamum A. Parish. *08, Mo­mence. III. 
B
YRON V. KANALEY, .'04, Chica­go, has presented to the Univer­sity a letter written in 1820 by Charles Carroll, one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence. The letter has been added to the collec­tion of Carroll letters in the Univer­sity archives. Six of these were written by -Archbishop John CarroU, of Baltimore, first Catholic bishop in the United States and a cousin of Charles Carroll. 
S
EVERAL thousand persons attend­ed the third annual Eucharistic celebration in the Stadium on June 20. As before, it was arranged and conducted by the local Catholic Youth 
Organization. Most Rev. John F. Noll, bishop of Fort Wayne, attended. Father Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C, dean of the College of Science, was master of ceremonies at the Benedic­tion, and Father Philip H. Schaerf, St. Joseph County CY.O. director, led in the renewal of pledges. 
A 
LARGE portrait of Most Rev. Peter J. Muldoon, late bishop of Rockford, Illinois, has been added to the Hall of Bishops collection at the University. It was presented by Rev. J. F. Callaghan, pastor of St. Mal­achy's Church, Chicago, a close friend of the late bishop. 
T
HE SUMMER School of the past Summer drew the largest attend­ance since pre-depression days, with approximately 825 enrolled. Four hundred Sisters from 25 religious or­ders were on the campus. Rev. David Mathew, Litt.D., historian and Cath­olic chaplain in the University of London, was a guest professor of history in the Summer School and gave the Commencement address. Professor Stanley Sessler, of Arts Department, began the teaching of two courses in the fundamentals of photography from the viewpoint of art, the first of their kind in Ameri­can universities. 
F
ATHER RAYMOND W. MURRAY, C.S.C, head of the Department of Sociology, returned in August from two months of scientific excavations in Alaska. Father Murray was one of a party of four scientists, spon­sored by the University of Alaska and the American Museum of Na­tural History in New York City, who searched in the Valley of the Yukon for evidences of pre-Indian culture and on St. Lawrence Island, 40 miles from Siberia, for pre-Eskimo relics. 
"It has been almost certainly es­tablished," said Father Murray upon his return, "that the first American, Mongolian stock, arrived on this con­tinent from the far north, quite probably by way of St. Lawrence Is­land and the Diomede Islands in Bering straits. He probably settled first in Alaska, then moved down along the Pacific coast to North America and South America. 
"In fact we saw them using their primitive walrus-hide boats, and they continually move from the Island to Siberia and back to visit relatives and friends. If they could do it now in those primitive boats, which prob­ably haven't changed in generations and centuries, they surely could have done it in pre-historic eras." 
By JOHN J. LECHNER. '37 

CAMPUS NOTES 
D
R. ARTHUR HAAS, professor of physics, was recently elected a fellow of the American Physical So­ciety, an honor shared by only 100 of the Society's membership of approxi­mately 5,000. 
J
OSEPH T. PAWLOWSKI, of South Bend, a student in the University for the past two years and a soloist with the Glee Club, has been award­ed a year's scholarship in the Univer­sity of Warsaw. Joe will have an op­portunity to sing in the Warsaw opera and for the Polish radio system. He will return to Notre Dame for his senior year. 
r\A]ttAGE estimated at $7,000 was 
•L' done on June 18 when a fire broke out in the physical chemistry laboratorj' in Chemistry Hall. The blaze was discovered at 5:35 a.m. by a Universitj' watchman. The loss was mostly in equipment in the one room. 
A S in previous years, the priests of 
•'^ the Fort Wayne diocese had their annual reti'eat on the campus—^from June 20 to June 23. The annual re­treat for priests and brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross was from June 13 to June 20. 
C
HARLES D. 1L\.GINNIS, recipient of the Laetare Aledal in 1924, is the president of the American Insti­tute of Architects for 1937-38. A member of the noted firm of Magin­nis & Walsh, of Boston, Jlr. Maginnis, with his associates, is the designer of several of the recent buildings on the campus. 
T^HE annual 10-day boy leadership •*- course, sponsored by the national organization of the Knights of Co­lumbus, was conducted on the cam­pus in July under the local leadership of Professor Raymond A. Hoyer. As­sisting were Cyril Costello and Frank Cain, assistant director and field sec­retarj-, respectively, of the K. of C. Boy Life Bureau. Speakers, aside from the foregoing, included Father Philip Schaerf, C.S.C, C.Y.O. direc­tor in the South Bend deanery; Wal­ter Mclnemey, commissioner of the St. Joseph Countj' juvenile court; 
Benjamin Weinstein, coiuity boys' probation officer; and Professor Frank T. Flynn. Tim Galvin, a su­preme director of the K. of C., and John Contway, director of the Boy Life Bureau, spoke at the closing session. 
NUMBER NINETY-SIX 
A capacity enrollment, a faculty 
augmented by noted foreign profes­
sors and domestic celebrities, a new 
residence hall, few changes in hall 
rectorships, a promising footbal l 
squad, and the demolition of the old 
porter's lodge which formerly stood 
sentinel opposite the now defunct old 
postoffice — with this summation 
Notre Dame begins its 96th scholas­
tic year. 
Registration day was crisp and chill and parents accompanying reg­istering offspring were treated to a preview of what Notre Dame ^vill be wearing in topcoats this fall. It seemed to this old sentimentalist that the campus had never looked more beautiful as we scurried about looking for news to fill this page. Near Morrissey hall we observed a sign of the growing spirit of inde­pendence of common carriers. We saw a trunk inscribed with a legend which we read with difficulty since it was upside down. It said: "This end up! Handle with care!" The aforementioned commo n carrier's may soon get their come - uppance, however, as we understand that South Bend's city council is ponder­ing a measure to reduce cab rates. If the contemplated reduction takes place, attractiveness, rather than geography, will determine Notre Dame's dates. 
THE OLD ORDER PASSETH The old candy store, long the habi­tat of the late beloved Brother Leo­pold and successors, has passed into secular hands. Its proprietor is now Bill Sheehan, '25, well known Notre Dame alumnus and prominent South Bend tire tycoon. The bromide "you wouldn't know the old place now" is applicable, not to the building's ex­terior, but to its refurbished interior. The Chez Sheehan is quite swanky viith new counters low enough so that even the smallest Freshman can be sure of gaining attention. Among the appointments are a natty soda-fountain side by side with a mechan­anical marvel, an automatic popcorn popper. 
TWO BOYS IN A CAR "This car may be had for $20! See Macdougald, 353 Alumni hall" read a sign which we saw on a ram­shackle vehicle of dubious age parked in Notre Dame's main parking lot. Accordingly, we climbed the neces­sary three flights to "see Macdoug­ald," not particularly as a prospec­tive purchaser but merely to see a dyed - in - the - wool optimist, since frankly we thought the asking price 

on the car a little high taking every­thing into consideration. With Mac­dougald (whose inevitable nickname is "Sandy") we found the other "sur­vivor" of a trip which began in Prov­idence, Rhode Island, and finished at Notre Dame, Jack Cleary, of Taun­ton, Massachusetts. Eight flat tires w^ere recorded on the journey, most sensational of which occurred on Euclid Avenue in Cleveland. Jack and Sandy piloted their chariot to a nearby filling station only to discover that they had left their tire in the middle of the street. We checked again at a late hour but as yet no sale has been closed. Opportunity knocks. 
HOLLYWOOD INFLUENCE We ran into a Freshman registra­tion day that was just bubbling over with questions. He wanted to be put on the "right path" as he expressed it. We were quite pleased at first with being the target for the ques­tions thinking that we had around us an air of "knowing what its all about." However, we found out later that the Freshman had thought we were some sort of campus dignitary because we were wearing a Notre Dame belt buckle. "I've brought along six new suits and a tux" said the Freshman, "Do you think that will be enough?" We assured him that his wardrobe would be ample. He then solicited our advice on the subject of what hours it would be best for him to take his classes. We worked our way through that one until he started asking us about what school dances a Freshman could attend. The temptation was growing strong so we took a hasty leave be­fore we sold him a ticket to a dance at Dujarie. 
* 

RETRIBUTION Further peregrinations about the campus disclosed four Freshmen happily skylarking, meanwhile toss­ing bet\veen them a handball. The ball went astray into some bushes front of the dining hall. Three of the four began their search near a quiescent water-springier, the fourth confining his search to a point nearer the building. The latter stumbled upon the tap controlling the afore­mentioned sprinkler and "let them have it." He ignored our reproving glance. A day later, when classes be­gan we observed the prankster, his pants legs covered with sand-burrs, coming from the northern portion of the campus. 
"Say," he hailed us, "Where's the Commerce building? Some guy told me it was on the other side of the power house!" 
The President's Page By William E.Cotter/13 
At the beginning of another active year for our alumni I would like to take this opportunity to call to your attention the purpose of our National Association. Simply stated, its objec­tive is to serve the alumni, as indi­viduals and as members of class and club groups. As members of the alimini body we all instinctively long for contact with the campus where the happiest years of our lives were spent. There is not one among us who does not recall with regret leaving the shadows of the Dome. Not many of us have been privileged to re-visit 
the campus, to re-live for a few hours the happy days of former years. Hence a distinct need is cre­ated. Our alumni organization ren­ders an invaluable service to Notre Dame men by filling this need. It forms a vital bond by which Notre Dame truly remains a mother to her sons, uniting them in one huge family and effectively extending her influ­ence to all parts of the world. By means of an efficient record system, the publication of the very readable ALUMNUS magazine, the promotion of class and club activities. Universal Notre Dame Night, the association enables Notre Dame men to keep in close tough with their Alma Mater and with each other, though contin­ents stand between. 
Classes and Clubs 

The association aims during the coming year to further the promotion of class activities and the coordina­tion of the 87 local alumni clubs. Much has been accomplished by these groups, but we must not cease efforts to do more, especially to stimulate the organization of new clubs where needed. At Commencement this year the reunion of the St. Joe Hailers of­fered other classes a fine example to do likewise. Utilizing the spirit of their student days, these men came together with an enthusiasm that made last Commencement outstand­ing in alumni annals. This is the kind of cooperation that merits recogni­tion, for after all the annual reunion is and should be the big event for our members. We urge the members to follow the example of the classes who put over this year's reunion and tt start plans for a bigger and better Commencement next June. In con­nection with class activities, the newsy class columns in the ALUMNUS written by recent graduates deserve mention. The older classes should not neglect tflis important medium of communication. 
Christian Culture 

Art Hughes' administration showed us what the clubs can do and will do under proper leadership. We will carry on the good work so well be­gun. The success of the crusade against atheistic Communism indi­cates that the clubs are passing through the era of purely social pro­grams; that potentially they are a great force in the cause of Christian culture. From this campaign we have learned that opportunities for big things can easily arise. We must be prepared to meet them with addition­al strength. Numerically we are stronger than ever; a force for good in the local communities that can be realized in the typical spirit of Notre Dame, by fullest cooperation on the part of the clubs in the Association's program for the coming year. 
Employment 

Recognizing, as one of its legiti­mate interests, that the material wel­fare of individual alumni is an im­portant factor in strong alumni activ­ities, the association aims to stress the placement of recent graduates where possible. The lack of a formal program should not be allowed to create the impression among younger alumni that their employment prob­lems are of no concern to us. It is typical of the Notre Dame spirit that we are all anxious to help one an­other. A great deal has been done already in helping the younger grad­uates to find employment when they return to the various communities. This activity is most worthy of con­tinued promotion by the clubs, and the Association stands ready to con­tinue as a clearing house for employ­ment information. 
PRESIDENT BILL COTTER 
New Students 

Another factor in the effectiveness of alumni activities is traced back to the kind of young men who enter Notre Dame. The enrollment for 1937-38 overtaxed campus capacity, and naturally many young men had to be turned away. Unfortunately some will enter to whom the intellect­ual traditions of Notre Dame are only of secondary importance. The reputation which the University is now enjoying can be maintained only by insistence on high academic stand­ards. The need, therefore, is for in­creasing selection among prospective students so that the best boys in their communities will gain admittance. The alumni must accept in part the responsibility of interesting only the most representative young men, keep­ing paramount in their minds the academic purposes of Notre Dame. The University desires as students only those who will be impressionable to her intellectual and moral ideals. 
Endowment 

The National Association performs the great service of bringing to the attention of alumni the needs of the University. Notre Dame men are on the whole grateful to their Alma Mater. To the members of the Asso­ciation, Notre Dame turns for sup­port in her great cause of preserving and developing Christian culture. As we well know, Notre Dame stands alone among the greater universities of this country without benefit of a large permanent endowment. We all look fonvard to the day when this great need may be supplied. In the meantime, we must keep in mind the Living Endowment. The Association sponsors this worthwhile project as a keypoint in its program to assist in the building of an ever greater Notre Dame. By means of it, the rank and file of alumni are given the oppor­tunity to maintain the equivalent of a permanent endowment through smal l spontaneous contributions. That it is of inestimable benefit is seen by the great strides Notre Dame is making in academic and physical development. 
Rockne Memorial 

Dear to the hearts of all of us is a project which the Association had been forced to set aside because of the pressure of hard times. It is the Rockne Memorial Fund. The return of better business conditions encour­ages us to call the attention of our members to it again. Until the Rock­ne Memorial is completed the memory 
(Continued on Page 11) 



Many Faculty Changes 
Father O'Hara Re-elected; Noted Laymen Are Added. 
Reelection of Rev. John P. O'Hara, C.S.C., '11, as president of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame for a three-j-ear term (1937-40), and of Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16, as vice-president, headed the changes effect­ed by the Provincial Chapter of the Congregation of Holy Cross at its meeting on the campus at Notre Dame in July. 
Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C., '18, was relieved as prefect of discipline, to devote his time to teaching as head of the department of politics. He was succeeded bv Rev. James Trahey, C.S.C, '30.. 
Rev. William -A.. Bolger, C.S.C, '07, one of the great Catholic econo­mists, was relieved of his duties as head of the Department of Economics, and made a member of the mission band of the Congregation, with head­quarters on the Notre Dame campus. William H. Downey, M.-A.., '27, is the new head of the department. 
Rev. Wendell Corcoran, C.S.C, '07, for many years a.mission priest, last year builder and pastor of Christ the King parish north of the Univer­sity on the Niles road, was made pas­tor of St. Joseph's Church, South Bend. He was succeeded at Christ the King by a fellow missionary. Father William J. Burke, C.S.C, '13. 
Other C.S.C. Changes 
Rev. Patrick Haggertj', C.S.C, '16, long a teacher and rector at Notre Dame, was made president of St. Edward's University, succeeding Rev. Joseph A. Maguire, C.S.C, '96, who returns to his pastorate at St. Pat­rick's parish. South Bend. 
Brother Agatho, C.S.C, '25, supe­rior at Dujarie for several years, was assigned to Cathedral High in Indian­apolis. 

Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C, '04, is the new superior of the Commun­ity Infirmary at Notre Dame. Rev. Richard CoUentine, C.S.C, '09, is head of the Community House on the campus. Rev. James Connerton, CS.C, '20, succeeds Rev. Kemdt Healy, C.S.C, '15, as master of nov­ices at St. Joseph's Novitiate, Rol­ling Prairie, Indiana. Father Healy returns to Notre Dame's faculty. 
Rev. Joseph H. Burke, C.S.C, '04, one-time director of studies at Notre Dame, succeeds Father Patrick Hag­gerty as pastor of St. Bernard's Church, Watertown, Wisconsin. 
Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C, '26, is superior of Moreau Seminary. Rev. 

B. J. IH, C.S.C, was appointed stu­dent counselor. Rev. John P. Lynch, C.S.C, '25, was appointed assistant prefect of religion. 
Rev. Louis Kelly, C.S.C, '07, was re-appointed pastor of Sacred Heart Church, New Orleans, assisted by Rev. James Quinlan, C.S.C, '08, and Rev. Andrew Mulreany, C.S.C, '28. 
Other teaching, pastoral and exec­utive posts of the Congregation re­mained practically the same, with most of the newly ordained priests continuing their studies. 
Lay Faculty Changes 

-After 50 years of teaching. Pro­fessor Francis X. Ackermann was re­lieved this year as head of the De­partment of Mechanical Drawing, being succeeded in that post by Pas­quale Pirchio, '25. Professor Acker­mann has had a long and happy ca­reer at Notre Dame, where his father and his uncle, artists themselves, had preceded him. Fifty years of teach­ing, during which he lived on the campus, have acquainted him with all alumni, who congratulate him on the completion of his glorious career as a teacher and who wish him every happiness in his continued residence at Notre Dame and association with Notre Dame men. 
Professor James F. Hines, '09, after 27 years of teaching, has left the University faculty to return to his former home in Kewanna, Ind. Many alumni have known and ad­mired the gentle-mannered professor of history, whose classes in his sub­ject were enriched by his wide read­ing in the classics and in literature of the same periods. 
Professor Louis F. Buckley, '28, class secretary, has taken a year's leave of absence from the Depart­ment of Economics to do his residence work toward a doctorate at the Uni­versity of Wisconsin. 
Death took a brilliant lay profes­sor in the person of Fred I. Myers, just before Commencement last June. 
Paul R. Martin, '09, who took the advertising classes of Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C, '11, last Spring, is now devoting his entire time to the Nieuwland Memorial Foundation. Fa­ther Lahey has resumed his class work after his serious illness which interrupted his trip to the Eucharistic Congress in Manila. 
Other lay professors who did not return to the University this year 
October. 1937 

are Professors Lee Thomas Flatley, LaRoy Wilkins, Edward A. Huth, Roger Knittel, Benjamin South, Hu­bert Tunney and Karl Weigand, Rev. Julian Sigmar, and eleven graduate assistants who had completed their graduate work. 
New Faculty Members 
Three internationally famou s 

mathematicians have been added to 
this department of the University. 
Outstanding is Canon Georges Le-
Maitre, priest-professor of theoreti­
cal physics from the University of 
Louvain. Dr. Kurt Godel of the 
University of Vienna, and Professor 
Emil -4rtin of the University of Ham­
burg join Canon LeMaitre, and the 
two distinguished men already on the 
Notre Dame faculty, Drs. Karl Men­
ger and -Arthur Haas, both University 
of Vienna alumni. The noted Dr. 
Eugen Guth, also from the Univer­
sity of Vienna, has joined the Phy­
sics Department. 
The College of Arts and Letters is adding Dr. Waldemar Gurian, of Lucerne, Switzerland, who will con­duct classes in the reform of capital­ism and the philosophy of the Rus­sian government; Professor Matthew Fitzsimons, formerly of Oriel Col­lege, Oxford, history and a seminar in the works of Orestes Brownson; John J. Fitzgerald, University of Louvain, philosophy, Arnold Lunn and Chi-istopher HoUis, English in­tellectual leaders, will again join the Universitj' faculty in the course of the yeai\ 
The College of Commerce has added as instructors, Bernard Finna, New York City; Harold Heck, New Roads, Louisiana, and James Din­colo, Medford, Massachusetts. 
Other instructors and graduate as­sistants added this year are: Albert 
L. Vitter, '35, physics; Robert L. An­thony, formerly of Yale, physics; La«Tence A. Stauder, '29, electrical engineering; J. F. Froning, '37, son of Professor Henry Froning, chem­istry; Firmin Krieger, mathematics; 
E. P. Jenks, mathematics; Rev. Ber­nard Topel, mathematics; Charles S. Bamhart, English; John H. Sheehan, '37, economics; and Arthur Milgram, mathematics. 
Professor Stanley Sessler has suc­ceeded the late Professor Jacques as head of the Art Department. He will be assisted by Francis J. Hanley, for­merly with the Rhode Island school of design. The new instructor has also traveled widely, specializing in re­search in oriental art. He studied in Rome and Florence. 
STUDENT TRIP 

The official student trip of the year will be to the Minnesota same on October 30 in Minneapolis. The students will leave South Bend Fri­day night and return Sunday morn­ing, according to present plans. 
October. 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
»




SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI 
H
AROLD P. BURKE, '16, of Roch­ester, is the new federal judge for the western district of New York. Formerly assistant attorney general 
JUDGE BURKE 

in New York state and more recent­ly corporation counsel for Rochester, Judge Burke has been outstanding in New York legal circles for many years. He was sworn into office with impressive ceremony on June 29. 
The new judge attended the re­union of old St. Joe Hallers at the Commencement last June. 
F
RANK T. FLYNN, M.A., '31, member of the Sociology faculty and manager of the South Bend Community Fund, Inc., has been named a trustee of the Indiana State prison at Michigan City by Governor M. Clifford Townsend. 
TV/fUNICIPAL JUDGE AL SCOTT, lyi '22, of Los Angeles, was ap­pointed to Superior Court bench in July by Governor Frank F. Merriam. Al was appointed to the Municipal Court in 1932 and was elected last April for a six-year term. Only 35, he is one of the youngest Superior Court judges in history. 
J
OE BYRNE, '15, director of the Alumni Association, has added a new job, city commissioner in New­ark, New Jersey, to his numerous other duties. Joe has charge of the Department of Parks and Public Property. 
T
IMOTHY P. GALVIN, '16, Ham­mond, Indiana, was re-elected a supreme director of the Knights of Columbus at the supreme convention held in San Antonio, Texas, on Aug­ust 18 and 19. Among others noted at the convention by an experienced ALUMNUS scout were Ray Miller, '10, Cleveland, a supreme director; Leo Craig, '04, Siou.x Falls, South Da­kota, also a supreme director; Rev. Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C, '07, presi­dent of St. Edward's College, Austin, Texas; Rev. Paul Foik, C.S.C, '06, also of St. Edward's, head of the Knights of Columbus Historical Sur­vey in Texas; District Deputy Eli Abraham, '34, of Notre Dame; John Bergan, '31, of South Bend, Indiana; and District Deputy Henry Hasley, '28, of Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
Assisting in the entertainment" pro­vided the guests were two San An­tonio alumni, William V. Dielmann, '25, and Judge W. E. Koch, '18. The "Victory March" was one of the most popular numbers played at the States Banquet during the convention. 
A
LBERT A. KUHLE, '15, Chicago, has been appointed regional rep­resentative for the Bureau of Fed-
REGIONAL REPRESENTATIVE KUHLE 
eral Old Age Benefits of the Social" Security Board. He had been serv­ing as technical advisor to the bureau. The regional office has jurisdiction over Indiana, Illinois and Wisconsin. 
A
LBIN A. RHOMBERG, '22, is the new city manager in Dubuque, Iowa, the first "man from home" to have the job since the managerial 
CITY MANAGER RROMBERC 

form of government was established in Dubuque in 1920. Until his aj)­pointment -41 was county engineer. 
G
US DORAIS, '14, of the Univer­sity of Detroit, w^as the notably successful head coach of the college All-Stars in the game with the Green Bay Packers in Chicago on Septem­ber 1. With Jimmy Phelan, '17, and Elmer Layden, '25, as two of the four assistant coaches, the AU-Star victory, 6 to 0, had a decidedly Notre Dame flavor. The "Notre Dame system" was used by the col­lege players. 
R
EV. JAMES J. O'BRIEN, C.S.C, '13, is the new national chaplain of the Reserve Officers' Association following the association's national convention in June. Father O'Brien is at present pastor of St. Mary's Church in Austin, Texas. He holds the rank of lieutenant-colonel in the Reserve. 
C
OACHES SHAW, '22 and MIL­LER, '25, are among the leading Fall contributors to Sport Story Magazine. Buck, of Santa Clara, has an article in the second October issue and Rip, of the Naval Academy, in the first December issue. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1937 
BY JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. "32 
» » » 

Director of Athletic Publicity 


ATHLETICS 
FOOTBALL ROSTER. 1937 
Name Po5. Home ToJvn Prep. ^School Age Wgt. Hi. Exp 
Flash! N. D. to 

* Indicates monograms won. 
St. Veronica H. S. 20 200 6:1 0 Albert. Francis Jos.. Jr. R.T. Covington, Va. Covington H. S, 21 210 5:10 0 Adamonis, Stanley Charles .\inbridge. Penna. 
Play Football c. 
Allen. Jamc& Joseph R.T. Mannington. W. Va. ManninBton H. S. 20 193 6:2 0 Ames, Richard Francis L.G. Mt. Vcmon. HI. Mt. Vernon H. S. 19 180 5:10 0 Apostal, Emanuol Noley R,E. Eric, Penna. 
Fairport H. S. 23 207 5:11 1 Petritz Admits Good Arboit. Ennio Benjamin R-H. Oglesby. III. St. Bede. Peru. 111. 20 178 5:10y. 2 Arboit, Peter Samuel L.E. Oglcsby. III. St. Bede. Peru, 111. 18 ISi 6.-0 0
Team In Prospect 

Archer, Clyde William Q.B. Parkcrsburg, W. Va. Parkersburg H. S. 20 180 5:10>/j 0 Barber. Robert Anthony R.E. Erie. Penna. Erie E.-ist H. S. 20 175 6:1 0 Barrett. James Edward C. Syracuse, N.Y. Syracuse North H. S. 21 178 6:0 0 Barron. Lloyd Joseph E.H. Detroit, Mich. U. of Detroit H. S. 20 169 3:9 0
Notre Dame will have a good foot­

Beilstein. Henr>- John Q.B. Sandusky, Ohio Sandusky H. S. 19 170 6:0 0
ball team in 1937. 

*Bc!nor, Joseph Edward L.T. nancy. III. Thornton Twp. H.S. 20 200 6:2 1 The chances are it will not be a Biasi. Frank Walter I..B. St. Paul, Minn. Mechanical Arts H.S 19 183 5:liy. 0 great team. And even a great team Blake. Robert Wilken n.E. Canton. Ohio St. John's H. S. 19 175 6:1 0 
Bock. John Heinrich Chicaso. IH. Mt. Carmcl H. S. 22 193 5:liy 0
might lose two or three games along R.G. 
Bohon. Thomas Ijibrie Q.B. St. Paul, Minn. Cretin H. S. 21 160 5:8 2
the rock-ribbed trail Director of Ath­

Bond. Nathaniel C. Franklin, Ohio Franklin H. S. 19 178 0
letics Elmer Layden has mapped out o-.nv. 
Borer, Harold WilHam R.H. Little Neck. L. L Blair Prep. N. J. 20 175 5:10 0
for Coach Elmer Layden to follow. 

Borowski. Charles Casimir L.H. South Bend, Ind. Central H. S. 22 170 5:11 2 Bossu, Aujnist Francis L.G. Mononsahela, Penna. Monongahcla H. S. 21 187 5:10 1
YoJ see, Notre Dame is playing 

Bourke, John Taylor Q.B. Water\ille. N. Y. Watenille H. S. 23 175 5:10^ 2 
some great teams itself. Minnesota 

Brennan, John Joseph L.E. Albany, N. Y. Christian Bros. Acad 21 1S3 6:014 0 
and Pittsburgh are co-favorites for 

Brcnnan, Thomas Josejih L.R Chicago, 111. St. Leo H. S. 19 ISo 6:2 0 Brew, Francis Joseph L.T. Superior, Wis. 
the national championship. Navy is Duluth Cathedral 19 208 6:1 0 never greater than when playing Brophy, James Francis L.H. Peoria. III. Spalding Institute 20 171 5.-11 
Notre Dame—the record shows three Broscoo. Edward Michael R.E. Youngstown, Ohio Dickinson Seminary 23 180 5:11 victories in the last four starts Brown. Earl Melvin. Jr. L.E. Benton Harbor, Mich Benton Harbor H. S. 21 180 6:016 against the Irish. Northwestern, no Brown. James Gerald L.H. Belle Harbor. L. X. .Kavier H.S. (NYC) 19 153 5:8 
matter what they say about Minne­Bumell. Herman Joseph L.H. Duluth, Minn. Duluth Cathedral 22 180 5:11 
sota, is still the defending Big 10 

Bums. James Allan L.T. Ft. Lauderdale. Fla. St. Leo Prep 19 190 6:1% 0 Caird, Donald Raj-mond L.H. Highland Pk.. Mich Detroit H. S. 19 150 5:9 0
champion, and we defy you to name 

Callan. Alfred John Jr. F.B. Newark, N. J. SU Benedict's H. S. 19 170 5:9% 0 
a more sturdy conference than the 

Carroll. Francis Thomas R.B. Woonsocket. R. T. LaSaltc, Providence 20 169 5:11 0
Big 10 for football. Or basketball, for 

Clifford. Jeremiah Joseph L.E. Chicago. HI. Mt. Carmel H. S. 22 184 6:2 2 Collins. Henry D'Alton Q.B. Fairmont. W. Va. 
that matter. Army's over-due and the St. Peter's H.S. 19 170 5:10% 0 Cadets catch the Irish right smack Corsan. Michael Henry R.H. Alma. Mich. Alma H. S. 19 183 5:10 0 after Navy, Minnesota, and Pitt get Couch, James Cecil R.H. South Bend. Ind. Central H. S. 22 173 5:1U4 0 through with them. Southern Cali­Crorwe, Emmett Hoste Q.B. Lafayette. Ind. Jefferson H. S. 20 165 5:9 1 fornia tied last year, 13 to 13, and Cusick, Martin Patrick L.T. Jersey City, N. J. St. Peter's Prep 21 194 6:0 1 the Trojans are reputed to be on the Dahar, Philip George R.E. Dillonvale, Ohio Dillonvale H. S. 20 198 5:11 1 
Daly. James Paul R.G. Philadelphia, Miss. Holy Cross, N. Orleans 21 176 5:10% 0
upgrade. 

Deane, John Joseph R.H. Milwaukee, Wis. Marquette U. H.S. 21 158 5:7 2 DeFranco, Joseph Francis L.G. Weirton. W. Va. Weirton H. S. 21 175 5:7 0
That leaves Drake, Illinois, and 

Derenjroski. Robert Andrew L.B. Manistee, Mich. Manistee H.S. 21 192 6:2% 1
Carnegie Tech. Drake will provide a 

Devereux, Lawrence Arthur R.G. Chicago, 111. St. Patrick's Acad. IS 165 5:lff% 0
worthy opener with its veteran team 

Dillon, Wah"am Richard C. Kenilworth, IH, Loi'ola, Chicago 20 ISO 6:0 0 which ranked second in national scor­DiMattco. Joseph Angelo F.B. Pittsburgh, Pa. Perry H. S. 22 180 5:9% 2 ing last year. Old Bob Zuppke must Disser. Edmard Joseph F.B. PL Wayne. Ind. Central Catholic 20 189 6:0 1 have known something when he Dubbs, Joseph Allan L.T. Mendota. III. Mendota H. S. 19 185 5:11 0 scheduled this game—^he says his Ely, Eufrene James L.T. Auburn. Nebraska Auburn H. S. 21 198 6:1% 2 team will be bigger and tougher than Emanuel. Dennis George L.T. Iowa City, Iowa St. Patrick's H. S. 22 203 6:2 2 FalsJoni. Daniel Paul Q.B. Akron, N. Y. 23 160 5:7% 0
any in recent years. Carnegie Tech's Akron H. S. 
Fanning, Edward Joseph, Jr. L.G. Oak Park, HI. Fenwick H. S. 21 175 5:10% 1
graduation losses were neglible, and 

Favero, Dominic Massimo C. Leechburg, Pa. Valley Forge (Phila.) 20 180 3:10 1
with Bill Kern at the helm in his first 

Finneran, John Clement C. Columbus, Ohio Columbus H. S. 19 189 6:0 0 
year, the Tartans are sure to put up 

Fipp, August Bernard. Jr. L.G. Defiance, Ohio Defiance H. S. 20 168 6:0% 0 
a great battle. Kern used to coach at Fitzgerald. Raj-mond Chas. 
E.G. Detroit, Mich. St. Catherine's 20 175 3:10% 0
Pitt. He w^as Dr. Jock Sutherland's 

Fogel. John Nicholas 0. Chicago, 111, Mt. Carmcl H. S. 22 190 3:10 2 Notre Dame spy, and he whiled away Foskett, Donald Austin K.T. E. Weymouth, Mass. Wej-mouth H. S. 20 185 3:11 0 his Saturday afternoons getting Wes­Foster, Har\*ey Goodson L.G. South Bend. Ind. Highland Pk., Detroit 23 183 6:0 2 tern Union reports of Pitt victories Fox, Harry Francis R.G. Cleveland Hts., O. Cleveland Hts. H. S. 21 175 5:8 2 and acquainting himself with Irish Frericks, Theodore Paul R.H. Marion, Ohio St. Mary's H. S. 20 140 5:6 1 Fricke. Carl Henry, Jr. L.G. 20 
personnel and plays in the press Altadena, Calif. Pasadena. Cat. H.S. 174 5:11 1 
Frost, Robert Joseph R.T. Hicksville. L. I. Mt. Assumption Inst. 19 210 5:10% 0
boxes of the country. 

Gallant, Adrian Joseph L.H. Kumford, Maine Rumford H. S. 21 175 5.-10 0 •*GIeaBon, Joseph Thoma-s R.H. Chicago, 111. St. Leo H. S. 23 173 6:0 0
Even if Elmer Layden had a great 

.Gottsacker. Harold Alfred Q.B. Sheboygan, Wis. Sheboygan H. S. 20 187 6:0 1
left halfback of the three-way variety Greene. John Francis 
F.B. Ft. Worth, Texas St. Eds., Austin 20 178 5:9 1
to which we have become accustomed, 

Grogan, Edward Fj^ncis L.G. Bcllaire, U. , N.Y. Chaminadc, Mineola 21 172 5:8% 0 
you could figure Notre Dame, wishful Haggar, Edmond Ralph R.E.  Texas 2
Dallas. St. Joseph's Acad. 21 194 6:2 thinking aside, to drop t^vo or three. Hambley. AVilUam Carter 
F.B. Pikeville. Ky. Pike\*ille College 22 185 6:1% 1 (Continued on Page 9) (Continued on Page 9) 
But he hasn't a triple-threater. Not even a two-way back to compare with Football Roster (Continued) Bob Wilke. Wilke couldn't make a Name Pos. Home Town Prep. School Age WiUHtExp name while Bill Shakespeare and An­HarrinKton. Hubert Joseph Q.B. Clare, Iowa Ft. Dodge, la. H. S. 21 171 6:0 1 dy Pilney were about. And neither Harve.v. Thaddeus Harrison L.T. Wilmettc, 111. New Trier H. S. 19 207 6:2 0 Bill nor Andy was quite up to Mar-Havflick, Raymond Joseph L.G. Billings, Montana Billings H. S. 19 183 6.-1 0 
Hayes. Frank Joseph 
chie Schwartz. Our left halfbacks, R.E. Chicago, 111. St. Mel's H. S. 20 165 5:9 0 
Hisoy, Claude "Woodrow L.T. Gary, Ind. 
mates, have slipped a bit since 1931. Catholic Central 20 178 6:0 0 
HoCcr. WiUard Clair Q.B. Rock Island. HI. Rock Island H. S. 
21 180 a:\V% I And all of you know what the left Hollendoner, Francis Jos. R.T. Chicaso, III. Dc La Salle Academy 19 203 6:3 0 halfback is to the Notre Dame sys­Horan. Raymond AuKustinti R.T. BridKeport. Conn. Central H. S. 22 180 6:0 2 Horan, William Cornelius R.H. Chicago, 111. St. Ignatius Academy 21 175 5:11 2
tem. With right halfbacks like 
Hrachovec. Leo Armand R.E. \Vhite River. S. Dak. WhitB River H. S. 20 180 6:1 
George Melinkovich in 1934, Mike 
HuRhes. James Joseph L.H. Bemidji, Minn. Bemidji H. S. 19 163 5:11 
Layden in 1935, and Vic Wojcihovski 
JaeKer, Justin John R.G. Geneva. 111. Marmion. Aurora 19 168 5:8% 
and Nevin Francis (Bunny) McCor-
Jandoti. Norman Francis L.E. W. Orange. N. J. \V. Orange H. S. 22 180 6:0 mick in 1936, Layden (the one who is Johnntcen. Henry Francis L.T. Rochester. N. Y. Aquinas Institute 20 187 5:11 Elmer) was able to develop some Karr, James Joseph L.G. Milwaukee, Wis. Pio Nono H. S. 20 189 5:11 nifty reverses, weak side stuff, and *Kcll. Paul Ernest R.T. Princeton. Ind. Niles, Mich. H. S. 22 209 6:1 strong side plays to the left which Kelleher, John Charles Q.B. Lorain, Ohio Lorain H. S. 19 158 5:8 took some of the pressure off the left Kelly. Daniel Brady L.H. Forest Hills. N. Y. Chaminade. Mineola 20 160 6:0 Kelly, Frank Robert F.B. Richmond. Va, 
halfbacks and made some of the op­Benedictine H. S. 19 183 6:1 position linemen take another think 20 ISl 5:8 
Kelly. James Patrick L.H. Frecport. L.I., N.Y. St. Augustine H. S. 
Kelly, John Francis R.E. Rutherford. N. J. Pennington. N. J. Prep 21 190 6:2 Kelly. John Gre;rory R.E. Chicago. HI. S t George. Bvanston 21 183 6:0 Kennedy, Maurice James L.H. Ogdcn. Utah Ogdcn H. S. 22 187 6:0% 
before over-shifting. 
McCormick is back looking as chip­

Kerr, William Howard L.E. Newburgh, N. Y. Newburgh Academy 22 187 6:1 
per as ever, but there's nary a left 
King, Thomas Joseph R.T. Elmira. N. Y. South Side H. S. 21 178 6:0y 
half to match his speed and trickery 
Kmiecik. Thad. Stanislaus Q.B. Muskegon. Mich. Muskegon H. S. 
20 155 5:7 

on those dazzling reverses which 
•Kovalcik. Goorse John R.H. Donora. Penna. Donora H. S. 22 190 6:0 
fooled Northwestern, Army , and 
Kovzclove. Alexander George F.B. New York City Geo, Washington H.S. 23 185 6:1 Southern California last November. Kristen, Julius Raymond Q.B. Wnllingford. Conn. Lyman Hall H.S. 19 155 5:7 
And besides, McCormick came up as **Kuharich, Jos. Lawrence R.G. South Bend. Ind. James W. Riley H.S. 20 179 5:11% 2 a surprise package in mid-season. Kuhlman, John Henry R.H. Buffalo. N. Y. St. Joseph Institute 21 173 5:10 0 During the recent hot stove season, Lahey. James Henry R.H. South Bend. Ind. J.-unes W. Riley H.S. 21 179 6:0% coaches have been studying movies of Lamm. Louis Joseph Q.B. Vici, Oklahoma Richmond H. S. 20 175 5:9% him, gone over plays in which he Longhi. Edward John C. Torrington, Conn. Torrington H. S. 21 195 6:2 
Lorch. Frederick Leonard 
R.H. Comwall-on-Hudson ComwaII.on-Hudson 22 175 5:11 Lynn. Bradley Nicholas R.H. San Francisco. CaT. Santa Cruz H. S. 20 180 5:10 
figured, and otherwise taken steps to 
find out what he did that they must 
SIncaluso, Charles Joseph L.T. Cleveland Hts.. O. Oeveland His. H.S. 21 208 6:1 
prevent him from doing this fall. 
Miigec. Jerome Barry F.B. Buffalo. N. Y. Nichols H. S. 21 160 5:10 
Maher, Thomas Augustine L.G. New York City Yorktown H. S.. N.Y. 20 190 6:1 2To get right down to cases. Line Malcshewski. Wm. Harry R.G. Mahwah. N. J. Ramsey H. S. 21 
194 5:955 ICoach Joe Boland is going to put a 'Marshall. Walter Mic-ihel R.G. Phnadelphia. Pa. Gratz H.S„ Phila. 22 189 5:10r, 2 

strong forward wall on the field. But, Masterson, Bern.ird James Q.B. Oak Park. HI. Fcnwick H.S. 21 161 5:8 0 on the level, it doesn't shape up as Matthews. Edward Eugene L.T. New Straitsville. O. New Straitsville H.S. 19 200 6:0 0 well as the 1934 and 1935 lines right McArdle. Paul John Q.B. Pittsburgh. Pa. Central Catholic H.S. 20 167 5:11% 0 
"McCarthy, Jack Gregory 
now, with their ends like Millner and L.H. Glencoe. III. Loyola Acad., Chicago 21 180 6:0 2 *McCarty. Patrick Francis C. Toledo. Ohio Central Catholic H. S. 22 
Peters, tackles like Joe Sullivan and 200 6:2Vi 2 
*McCormick, Nevin Francis R.H- Livermore. Calif. Livermore H. S. 
-23 5:7 McDonough, Joseph James K.T. Chicago, III. Dc LaSalle H. S. 177 6:0 
Butch Pfefferle, and centers like Jack IGO 2 
20 

Robinson. 
McGoldrick. James Joseph L.G. Philadelphia. Pa. W. Philadelphia H.S. 20 ISO 5:11 Mclntyre. John Aloysius C. Providence. R. I. LaSallc Academy 20 188 6:1 
Quarterback is pretty well set, al­
McKendrj-. John Charles L.H. Buffalo. N. Y. Canisius Prep 21 180 6:1 2
though we don't e.\-pect another 
McMahon. James Patrick R.H. Forest Hills. N. Y. Chaminade. Mineola 20 170 5:11 0
Fromhart for some time. Fullback is McMahon, Edward L.H. Ind. Cathedral H.
 John Indianapolis. S. 20 175 5:11% 1doubtful, with brittleness as the out­McNichoIas. John Mackey Q.B. Mannington, W. Va, Mannington H. S. 20 165 5.-8% 0 standing characteristic—in Layden's Meskill. D.avid Thomas. Jr. R.T. W. Roxbury. Mass. Ro.-cbury Latin H.S. 20 195 6:1 1 mind at least—of the men available. C. Rockiille Ctr., N.Y. South Side H. S. 20 138 6:1 1
3Iet2ger. Charles Jos.. Jr. 
Right half has McCormick and little Metzger, Richard Andrew R.G. Rockville Ctr.. N.Y. St, Agnes' Academy 19 172 6:2 0 Metzlor, James P.itrick 
L.H. Kans,is City. Mo. Rockhurst H. S. 19 168 6:0 0
else. Left halfback is providing as 
Miholich, Ferdinand Emil Q.B. South Bend. Ind. Central H. S. 23 172 5:8 0
dizzy and merry a battle for recogni­
Miller. John Joseph R.G. Pittsfield. Mass. St. Joseph's H. S. 21 165 5:10 0
tion as Cartier Field has ever wit­
Milner. Robert Leo F.B. IVhitman. Mass. Whitman H. S. 21 170 5:9 0
nessed. Monckton, John William F.B. Springfield. III. Springfield H. S. 21 180 6:0 1 Mooney, Alan Brendan F.B. Hartford. Conn. Bulkeley H. S. 20 185 6:2 0
Position by position, here's the 
Morgan. John Boles L.E. Mt Vernon, N. Y. • Davis H. S. 20 183 6:1% 0
story: 
Morrissey. Gerald Edward L.G. Bennington. Vt. Blair Acad.. N. J. 21 179 5:9 1 Morrison. Paul Edward 
Quarterbacks: Andy Puplis and R.H. Jersey City. N. J. Raymond Riordan 22 ISO 5:10 1 Muleahey. James Lane R-G. Taunton, Mass. 
Chuck O'Reilly are tried and true let-Taunton H. S. 21 185 5:8% 1 
Murphy. Daniel Martin L.H. Marion. Ohio St. Mary's H. S. 
termen. They are probably as good 20 165 5:10% 0 
'Murphy. John Patrick R.E. South Bend. Ind. Central H. S. 22 180 5:11 2
for their size as you'll iind—but they 
Nardono. Joseph Robert L.E. Tiltonsvillo. Ohio Warren Consol. H. S. 20 170 6:0 
weigh about IGO pounds apiece and 
Nigro, Joseph Albert L.H. Kansas City, Mo. Southwest H. S. 20 156 5:8 
stand about 5 feet 9 inches tall. They 
O'Hara. John Francis L.G. Port Huron. Mich. St. Stephen's H. S. 21 174 6:0 
won't move Minnesota's and Pitt's O'Loughlin. Anthony  Toledo,
 Wm. 

L.E. Ohio Central Catholic 20 180 6:0 
tackles very far. Joe Ruetz, last Olson. George Edward R.G. S. 
 Lombard, 111. Glenbard. H L H. 20 185 5:11 year's shock trooper, has been moved O'Neil. George Michael R.E. Pelham, N. Y. Pelh.-ml H. S. \ 
20 18S 6:1K up to the front to replace three grad­O'Neill. Robert Francis L.T. PhoenL-cville. Pa. LaSallc. Philadelphia 20 195 6:0 
uated monogram winners at left •O'Reilly. Charles William Q.B. St. Mary's. Ohio Memorial H. S. 23 165 5:8 Pacetta. Albert Salvatore 
guard. Bill Hofer, a 200-pounder R.H. Far Eockaway, N.Y. Far Rockaway H. S. 20 169 5:9 who can punt; and Emmett Crowe, Patemo. Charles Francis R.G. Brooklyn. N. Y. St. Francis' Prep. 19 175 6:0 Petrillo. James Joseph 
R.T. Chicago, HI. Minn. 20 
seventh of the clan to play for Notre  St. Thomas. 195 6:1% 
Piercecchi. Robert John 
F.B. Laurium. Mich. Sacred Heart H. S. 20 185 6:1 
Dame, and an all-State high school 
Pieri, Francis William 
Q.B. Mahanoy City, Pa. Mahanoy City H.S. 19 163 5:3 
star from Lafayette, Indiana, a jun-
Pieters, Charles Edward 
R.H. Mishawaka. Ind. Mishawaka H. S. 20 173 6:0 (Continucd on Page 10) (Continued on Page 10) 
ior this year, rank next in line. Hofer and Crowe lack game experience. 
Right halfbacks: We return to right halfback and Bunny McCor­mick. He was hurt in the final game of 1936 against U.S.C, and he was used sparingly in spring practice. So far his injury has not bothered him, so keep your fingers crossed. Behind him are Joe Gleason, twice a letter winner, and Jake Kovalcik who got a letter last year; Ennio Arboit, senior reserve who was inactive with injur­ies much of 1936; and Danny Sulli­van, junior reserve from Chicago. Kovalcik is on the bench until the Drake game with injuries. Sullivan at present rates ahead of Gleason and Arboit. Mike Corgan, a sophomore Irishman who was bom in the Philip­pines, whose father played for Georgetown, and who always lands on his head when tackled, is the best new prospect. 
Fullbacks: Larry Danbom and Steve Miller have been lost at full­back. Returning are Ed Simonich, junior letter winner with lots of pow­er and not much speed; and Mario (Motts) Tonelli with lots of speed and little power. Both are easily hurt, as last season showed. Behind them is an assortment including Har­old Gottsacker, made over quarter­back; Ben (Bing) Binkowski, a hard-hitter ivith lots to learn; and Bill (Pappy) Hambley, all junior re­serves. 
Left halfbacks: We should devote a separate issue to left halfback. No one has anything against Jack Mc­Carthy, senior monogram winner, but he's not a punter, and he's not the runner that some of the others are, and that Bob Wilke was. His passing is fine. \STiat Layden wants is someone to supplement him, pre­ferably someone who can do every­thing. It is certain that he will find no one with even McCarthy's meager experience in this all important post. 
Just now Herman Joseph Burneli, otherwise Max or Bunny, and Ben Sheridan, junior and sophomore, re­spectively, are the most pleasing run­ning backs out for the job. 
Jack McMahon, Indianapolis jiuiior who rose in one week from the B squad to the Army game only to be hurt after three plays, is probably the best all around man of the lot. 
Harry Stevenson, a sophomore from Orange, New Jersey, is the best passing and kicking left half on the scene. Maurice Kennedy, senior re­serve, and Louis Zontini, sophomore are fair runners and the former can pass a bit, but neither can kick. Far­ris Saffa, sophomore brother of Bill, specializes in punting. We haven't even mentioned defensive quirks of this lot. 
And there you have it. How Lay-

Footboll Roster (Continued) 
Name Pos. Home Town Prep. School Age IVgL Ht. Exp Pittman. Frank Sanford R.T. Indianapolis, Ind. Cathedral H. S. 20 193 6:4 1 Plain, George Frederick L.E. E. Orange. N. J. E. Orange. H.S. 20 183 6:1 1 Popp, Romeo S. Q.B. Detroit. Mich. Perahing H. S. 21 193 6:0 0 Psik. Paul K.ilph L.G. Chicago, HL Morgan Pk. Military 21 194 5:6 2 Puhl,'Richard Joseph R.H. Oak Park, HI. St. Thomas, Minn. 20 160 3:8 1 *Puplis, Androw Joseph Q.B. Chicago, HI. Harrison Tech H.S. 22 170 3:8 2 Race, Adrian Joseph RG. Milwaukee, Wis. Pio Nono H. S. 22 188 5:10« 1 2 Reilly, Louis Joseph Q.B. St. Augustine, Fla. St. Joseph's Acad. 19 155 5:715 0 RifQe, Charles Francis F.B. Warren, Ohio Warren H. S. 19 195 6:0 0 Roach, George Thomas L.H. Bridgeport, Conn. Bridgeport Central 19 163 5:9 0 Roche, Thomas Eugene CJ.B. Cleveland. Ohio West H.S. 20 172 5:10 1 Rodgers, Charles Fay L.H. Detroit, Mich. U. of Detroit H.S. 20 170 5:8 0 Rosenski, Steven John C. Moline, 111. Moline H. S. 21 197 6:1 1 **Ruet7„ Joseph Hubert L.G. South Bend. Ind. Central H. S. 21 194 5:11« 2 Ryan, Daniel James K.T. Chicago, 111. Loyola Academy 21 215 6:3 1 R>-an, William Richard, Jr. L.G. Cleveland, Ohio Shaw H. S. 21 190 6:0 1 Sadowski Edward Marion L.E. Westfield. Blass. Westfield H. S. 22 175 5:10 1 Saegert, Gerald Fitzgerald K.G. Kcw York City Mt. St. Joseph's 19 160 5:8 0 SalTa, Farris Paul L.H. Drumwright, Okla.-Drumwright,H. S. 19 183 5:11% 0 Saitta, Joseph Thomas L.H. Monroe, N. Y. Monroe H. S. 21 163 5:9 0 Scally, Robert Leo R.B. Nangatuck, Conn. Nangatuck H. S. 23 175 6:0 0 Schantz, George Francis L.H. Binghamton, N. Y. S t Paul's H. S. 20 168 6:1 1 Schirf, Vincent Edward F.B. Altoona. Pa. S t Joseph's H. S. 20 180 6:0 0 Schloemer, Bertrand August L.E. Cincinnati, Ohio Xavier H. S. 22 IBS 5:11 1 Schorsch, Robert Stephen R.H. Chicago, HI. S t Thomas, Minn. 20 186 6:0 1 Schrenker, Heinie Paul L.G. Elwood, Ind. Elwood H, S. 19 190 5:10 0 Schulzc, John Otto L.H. Iowa City. Iowa St Mary's H. S. 21 171 6:10 1 *SheIlogg, Alec Regis R.T. New Castle, Pa. New Castle H. S. 21 210 5:0M 1 Shellogg, Fred2rick Rich. L.T. New Castle, Pa. New Castle H. S. 21 215 6:1% 1 Sheridan, Benjamin Mason L.H. Havana, HI. Havana H. S. 20 175 5:8% 0 Sheridan, Philip Francis L.B. Rutherford, N. J. St Mary's H. S. 20 181 6:2 0 Shoemaiier, Robert Edward 0. South Bend, Ind. Central H. S. 19 188 6:1 0 *Simonich, Edward Francis F.B. Ironwood, Mich. L. L. Wright H. S. 21 205 6:2 1 Sitko, Steven Joseph Q.B. F t Wayne, Ind. Central Catholic 20 175 6:0 0 
*Skoglund, Leonard Howard L.E. Chicago, HI. Sonn H." S. 21 189 6:1% 2 Sncll. Edward ^Villiam •LM. Erie, Penna. Academy H. S, 23 177 6:1 2 Stevenson, Harry, Jr. L.H. E. Orange, N. J. E. Orange H. S. 20 190 6:1 0 Stmad, Joseph Cole R.H. South Bend, Ind. Harrison (Chicago) 22 177 5:10 1 Stupkiewicz, Adam John R.T. Rochester, N. Y. Aquinas Institute 21 213 6:3% 1 Sullivan. Daniel Francis R.H. Chicago, HI. St Ignatius H. S. 22 175 5:8 1 Sullivan. James Henry Q.B. Hamburg, N. Y. Hamburg H. S. 19 165 5:8 0 Sullivan, John Edward L.H. Chicago, HI. St Mel's H. S. 21 182 6:1 0 Sullivan, Robcr Edwin R.T. Helena, Montana 3t Charles H. S. 20 193 5:11 0 Sullivan, Thomas Patrick K.K. Chippewa Falls, Wis. McDonnell H.S. 19 165 5:10 0 *Sweeney, Charles AleJiander E.B. Bloomington. HI. Trinity K S. 23 190 6:0 2 Theisen. Charles John C. St. Joseph, Mich. S t Joseph H. S. 21 220 6:4 1 Tonelli, Maria George F.B. Chicago, 1)1. DePauI Academy 20 190 6:11 1 Tuck, Frank Sweeney L.H. Hayden, Arizona Hayden H. S. 19 169 5:9 1 Vergara. Victor Joseph Q.B. Larchmont, N. Y. Mamaronock, N. Y. 19 168 5:8 0 Waldamn, Francis Xavier R.T. Reading, Penna. (leading H. S. 20 180 6:0-4 1 Weaver, Douglas Charles HJB Miamisburg, Ohio Miamisburg H. S. 19 185 6:0 0 "Weber, George William L.G. Cleveland, Ohio West H. S. 20 168 5:9 0 Wohrle. Joseph James L.G. Punxsutawney, Pa. Ss. Cosmos & Damian 1 21 170 5:9% 1 Windheim, Robert George R.T. W. Concord, Mass. Concord H. S. 21 192 5:11 0 Young, James Arista C. Houston, Texas S t Thomas College 19 194 6:1 1 Zcno, John L. R.H. Akron, Ohio S t Vincent's H. S. 22 185 5:10 1 Zontini. Louis Rogers L.H. Whitesville, W. Va. Sherman, Scth. W.Va. 19 175 3:9 0 Zuendel, Joseph Charles L.G. Des Moines, la. Dowling H. S. 20 183 3:11 1 Zurich, John William R.G. Litchfield, Conn. Litchfield H. S. 21 183 6:0 0 •*Zwers, Capt. Jos. Bernard R.E. Grand Rapids, Sfich. Catholic Central 22 183 6:0 2 
den wishes he could put the combined qualities of these eight men into two or three game-breakers. 
The line was practically swept away by graduation, and part of the second line went with the No. 1 unit. 
Guards: Joe Ruetz at left guard and Joe Kuharich at right guard are admitted sources of optimism to the coaches. These two South Bend Sen­iors will lessen to some extent the job to be done by Joe Boland. Under Ku­harich is Babe Marshall, senior mon­ogram man; and under Ruetz is Jim McGoldrick, junior reserve whose father played fullback for the Don­egal Celtics in Irish association foot­ball. 

Centers: Pat McCarty, senior mon­ogram winner; John Fogel, and Ed Longhi pace the field of center candi­dates. None quite comes up to Fred Mundee, who was graduated, but it is believed the Irish will hold their own with most of them at the pivot post. 
Tackles: The tackles were especial­ly hard hit by graduatioin. Bill Stein­kemper, all-Western choice, was lost at left tackle; Art Cronin and Frank Kopczak, alternates at right tackle, also grabbed diplomas in June. Left tackle was left in the hands of Den­ny Emanuel, senior reserve who has been retarded by injuries; and Ed " Beinor, monogram Junior, both of 
whom are on the injured list tempor­arily at least. 
Eight tackle belongs to Al Shellogg and Paul Kell, Juniors who won let­ters last year while Kopczak was in­jured. Both barely fulfilled the mon­ogram requirements. Once past the four men named, there is a sharp drop. An injury here or there can upset the line considerably. 
Ends: Right end is better set than any other position on the team. Capt. Joe Zwers, Chuck Sweeney, and Johnny Murphy, all of whom won letters last year, are back. Even should misfortune strike at this po­sition—and it usually hits the spots where reserves are lacking-—Line Coach Joe Benda can come up with adequate if not brilliant replace­ments. 
Left end will miss Joe O'Neill, team punter and leading pass grab­ber of 1936. Len Skoglund, senior monogram winner, however, was coming along fast as the season closed, and we have no great worries about this position — that's Elmer's worry anyhow. Under Len are Earl Brown, Jr., Jerry Clifford, and Bill O'Loughlin, reserves with playing time to their credit from past sea­sons. 
We have not tried to rank the var­ious men out for each position, for Layden himself is far from being de­cided on his starting combination. He was much better set in this respect last year at this time. The team he started in the first scrimmage of the year finished the season, except where injuries made changes necessary. 
And now to some more cheering news—or is it? Army and Minnesota tickets are all gone. Those of you who still send in orders and say you didn't see the announcement in the papers, are invited to visit our clip­ping reference room where we have stacks of neatly trimmed, pasted, and dated clips to show that news of these sellouts was no state secret, before or after the sellouts occurred. 
As this is written (it may be a dif­ferent story by the time you read it), you can still get ducats for the other games, but we warn you that nearly every game on the card is a potential S.E.O. contest and that you should hurry, hurry with those ap­plication blanks! Northwestern will probably be the next to go, with Pitt leading the home games. It is not unlikely that, with favorable weather, and good early season breaks on the scoreboard of the country, the Irish will play to 500,000 persons in 1937, which is an average of more than 55,000 a game for nine games. 
The complete schedule, with ticket prices, is printed here, and for fur­ther information you may communi­cate with our Messrs. J. AJrthur Haley and Herbert E. Jones of the business office. 
1937 SCHEDULE AND PRICES 
Game Box Side End October 2—Drake al Notre Dame $4.40 $2.20 $1.10 October 9—lUinoU at Champaign — 3.00 October 16—Carnegie Tech at PitUburgh 3.85 3.30 1.65 October 23—Navy at Notre Dame .. 5.S0 3.30 2.20 October 30—Minnesota at Minneapolia—^THIS GAME SOLD OUT November 6—Pituburgh at Notre Dame . 5.50 3.30 2.20 November 13—Army at New York—THIS GAME SOLD OUT November 20—^Northwestern at Evaaston -— 3.30 November 27—U. S. C. at Notre Dame 5.50 3.30 2.20 

PRESIDENTS PAGE 
(Continued from Page 5) 
of Knute Eockne is not fully honored. ceipts of alumni dues. This is en­The need for the building is great— couraging, and alumni and associate ask any recent graduate. Its erection members who have shown their loy­would bring to realization the Eockne alty in this way have received recog­ideal for the physical welfare of all nition in the form of preference in young men of Notre Dame. His con­football tickets. We urge oar alumni cern wasn't only for the welfare of not to forego this privilege and to the members of organized athletic show their loyalty to Notre Dame in teams. He wanted every young man this concrete manner. to enjoy the opportunity and ade­quate facilities for physical develop­We feel sure that the Notre Dame ment. It was the Notre Dame ideal spirit will again manifest itself in of a sound mind in a sound body. the fullest cooperation on the part of The Eockne Memorial was admirably alumni with their local clubs under conceived as the finest tribute we the guidance of the National Asso­could pay to the memory of "Rock." ciation. We want you to know that Its completion will be all of that, and we are interested in what individual we urge local alumni clubs to spur members are thinking, what they like their efforts in its behalf. and what they don't like, and we 
want your suggestion with this in And now a word about alumni mind, let's pull together and drive on dues. The return of normal conditions 
to another year of achievement in has been reflected in increased re­
behalf of Notre Dame. 
The varsity coaching staff (minus Bill Cerney, director of the "B" squad). Left to right. Head Coach Elmer Layden, Baekfield Coach Chet Grant, End Coach Joe Benda, Line Coach Joe Boland. 
ALUMNI CLUBS . * > 
Officers Promise Strong Association 
National and District Officers Combine to Represent Real Voice of Membership. 
Supplementarj' ballots, mailed to all alumni during the summer, great­ly strengthened the association on several fronts. 
As was ujidoubtedly to be expected, the three alumni incumbents of the Board of Lay Trustees whose terms as alumni representatives expired this year, were re-elected. These were Byron V. Kanaley, '04, Chicago in­vesment banker, chairman of the Board; Angus D. McDonald, '00, San Francisco, president of the Southern Pacific Systems, and Frank 
C. Walker, '09, New York attorney. 
The Lieutenant-Governors, elected by the Districts, are without excep­tion, men well able to participate in the development of this phase of our organization which it is hoped the ne.vt two years will witness. 
Much progress in the national con­centration of our power can be achieved if the alumni and the Clubs will enlist the services of the district officers as well as the national offi­cers. 
The Alumni Office, we hope as do you, does its work. But it can no longer handle the increased scope and the increased variety of the possibili­ties for our own development as an association, unless it has the active cooperation of all the other officers entrusted by club, by class, and by individual alumni, with a share in such progress. 
The district governors and the lieu­tenant-governors follow, ^vith the governor named first in each case: 
1.—Ko. Indiana and Southwestern Michif^an: 
A. Gordon Taylor, *18, LaPorte. Indiana; Jos­eph F. Donahue, '11, South Bend, Indiana. 
2.—Chicaeo: John M. Montasue, '23, Chi­caBO. Illinois; Edward W. Gould, '23, Chicago, Ulinois.­
3.—Ohio. W. Pennsylvania and West Va.: Otis S. Winchester, '29, Cleveland, Ohio: Edw. 
C. Byrnes, '25, Pittsburgh. Pa. 
4.—Minnesota, Wisconsin. Northern Blich.: Harold Watson. '25, Milwaukee, Wis.: John Yelland, '30, Minneapolis. Minn. 
S.^Midiican (except the UJ*. and S.W.): Joseph J. Norton, '24, Detroit, Michigan; Hon. Joseph Sanford, '21, Muskegon, Mich. 
6-—^New Jersey. Delaware. Md., East Pa., D.C.: James D. Hayes, '17, Washington, D.O.; Bobert Phelan. '22, East Orange, N. J. 
7.—New York City: Henry T. Prey. '30; Leo V. McLaughlin, '32. 

7.—New York, (except New York City): John G. Byrne, '23, Williamsville, N. Y.: Thomas V. Dollard, '21, Troy, N. Y. 
9.—New England: Walter J. Stapleton, '24, Fairfield, Conn.; Robert W. Powers, '29, Providence, R. I. 
10. Virginia, No. and So. Carolinas: Thom­as A. DafTron, '30, Richmond, Virginia: Rev. Thos. Mackin. '15, Spartansburg, S. C. 
11.—^Alabama, Georgia and Florida: Joseph E, Fitzpatrick, '25, Miami, Florida; (diaries Powers, SI, Savannah, Ga. 
12.—Kentucky. So. Ind.. Tenn.: James A. McKee. '93, Versailles, Kentucky: Marion Heffcrnan, *28, Louisville. 
13.—La., Miss., and Ark.: Wlliam H. Mil­ler. '30. Vicksburg, Miss.: (Charles de la Vcrgne, '23, New Orleans. 
14.—Texas: M. E. Walter. '14. Houston, Texas; Clyde E. Broussard, '13, Beaumont, To.\.ns, 
15.—Kan., Mo., Okla., So. III.: Daniel F. Foley. '23- Ft. Leavenworth, Kan.; N. F. Schwartz, '33, Salina, Kan. 
16.—^No. HI., Iowa, Nebraska: J. Henry Fannan. '24, Rockford, 111.; Elmer J. Mohan, 
•17, Streator, III. 
17.—STont,, Wyo., Ko. and So. Dak.: Leo 

F. Craig, '04, Sioux FMs. South Dakota; Robert Cummins, '26, Mandm, N. Dak. 
18.—^Utah and Colorado: Raymond M. Humphreys. '17, Denver, (Colorado: Robert A. Dick. '29, Denver. 
19.—So. CaKf., N. Jfex.. Ariz., W. Texas. Anton R. Hebenstreit. *I1. Albuquerque, New Mexico: Terence B. (^sgrove, '06, Los An-Reles. 
20.—^Ko. Cat and Nevada: Royal Bosshard. '17, San Francisco, Calif.: Bernard J. Abrott, '27, San Francisco. 
21.—Wash.. Ore., and Idaho: Natt McDoug­al, '00, Portland. Oregon; Emmett Lenihan, '17, Sc-iltle, Wash. 
J2.—Foreign: C. C. Fitzgerald. '91, Havana, Cuba; Antonio Roxas, '2S. Manila, P. I. 
AKRON 
Frank E. Steel, ex. '25, 327 Wildivood Ave­nue, President: James E. Coulter, ex. '30, 573 West Exchange Street, Secretary. 

ARIZONA 
Vincent Hengcsbach, el.'27, 1710 E. 2nd St.. Tucson, President; Ted A. Witi. ex.'Zt. Box 628, Tucson, Secretary. 

ARKANSAS 
Burt L. Roberts, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little 
Rock, Ark., Secretary. 

BENGAL 
R t Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C., *0f, Dacca. Bengal. India, President; Rev. J. J. Hennessey, C.S.C., '02, Dacca, Bencal, India. Secretary. 

BERRIEN COUNTY (Miekigui) 
Ensene CTooIe. '20, 321-325 State St., St. Joaeph, Proident: Frank A. Oeltle, '26. 1834 S. Colfax. Benton Harbor. Secretary. 

The Notre Dame Club of Berrien County held but one meeting this past Summer and that was a dinner and get-together, August 10, at Hig­man Park Inn on the shore of Lake Michigan at St. Joseph. 
Those present included Gene OTooIe, Cbet McGrath, Judge Mal­colm Hatfield, Maurice Weber, Joe Poffenberger and Arthur Holton from St. Joseph; Louie Patton, George Lynch and Frank Deitle from Benton Harbor; Bill Desenberg from Buchanan; and from Niles, Bill Downey, Tom Grimes, John Medo, John Jauch, Mauric e Krinowitz, Sheridan Cook, and Bill Madden. 
Frank Deitle. 

BOSTON 
Fred C. Solari, '35, Center St., Pembroke. 3IaS3., President; John J. Hanley, '34, 409 Salem St., Medford. Mass., Secretary; Paul McManus, '34. Fox & Hounds Club, Boston, Mass., Secretaiy. 

BUFFALO 
George B. Doyle, Jr., '30, Liberty Bank Bide. Praident: Robert Hesser, '34. Am-bent Bee Co.. Main & Rock Sts., Williams­ville, N. Y., Secretary. 

While members of the Buffalo Alumni Club of Notre Dame were at­tending the annual farewell, stag party planned by the Alumni Club, President George E. Doyle, '30, was nervously pacing the corridors of the Children's Hospital, Buffalo, where his two-year-old son, George 
E. Doyle 3rd, was undergoing an op­eration in a desperate attempt to save his life. Late that evening, when the youngster failed to rally, his father gave him blood for a trans­fusion. Early next morning, Pi-i­day, September 10, 1937, the child died. 
The youngster was the Doyles' only child. The members of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo extend their deepest sympathy. 
Members of the alumni club and the campus club mingled with new Notre Dame students on Friday eve­ning, September 9, at the annual farewell stag party in the Rainbow room of the Mansion House, Wil­liamsville. Refreshments were served throughout the evening and a beef steak supper was served at midnight. 
In the absence of President Doyle, Vice-President Frank J. Cats pre­sided at the short business meeting. He introduced Jack McKendry, presi­dent of the campus club, who in turn 
The 1937-1938 Board
presented to the alumni the gradu­ates of last June. 
Bill McVay, of Bradford, was in­troduced by McKendry, who told the men that the campus club was con­sidering staging a football banquet the first day of this year's Christmas holiday, at which time Coach Layden and severa l outstanding football players would be presented, in addi­tion to pictures of the past football season. 
The members of the campus club brought out the fact that they de­sired the co-operation of the alumni club and offered to turn over to the alumni scholarship fund a part of the proceeds. However it was decided that the campus organization should keep the entire amount for their own use and in return help the alumni with their annual Easter Monday dance. 
The two organizations pledge d themselves to work in harmony to perfect a plan and Mr. Cass appoint­ed Jay L. (Biffy) Lee as chairman of the alumni club committee. -4.s the purpose of the dinner would be to publicize the name of Notre Dame to western New Yorkers, it was de­cided to keep the admission as low as possible. 
Three Notre Dame men have been named membei-s of one of the Buf­falo Chamber of Commerce teams in the drive to raise funds for the Chamber. They are Jay L. (Biffy) Lee, captain of the team, and John 
G. Byrne and Paul Hoeffler. The drive is one of the important devel­opments in the expanding of Buffa­lo's industi-ial and civic life. 
William A. Measer, after spending the Summer at Cape Cod, has re­turned to his duties as instructor at Williamsville high school. Mr. Meas-er completed several special courses at Canisius College last June. 
Ed Jenkins, a member of the Wil­liamsville high school faculty, spent the Summer together with Mrs. Jen­kins and their children visiting his parents at Avon and Mrs. Jenkin's family at Sonyea. Pat Murray, an­other N.D. alumnus teaching at that high school, is busy doping out stra­tegic football plays for his squad. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jay L. Lee and Miss Mary Elizabeth Lee spent the early part of the Summer traveling in Georgia and other southern states. Later Mrs. and Miss Lee spent three months at Biffy's camp in Michigan, Biffy joining them every few weeks. 
John G. Byrne was one of a party that flew to Cleveland to attend the National -\ir Races. 
Club Secretary Bob Measer was general chairman of the annual Sum­mer convention of the Western New York Newspaper Publisher's Associa­tion held in June at Cleveland. He made five trips to Cleveland during 
Very Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C, '88, Notre Dame, Ind Honorary President William E. Cotter. "13, New York City President-Harry F. Kelly, '17. Detroit, Michigan First Vice-President Charles A. Mooney, Jr., '26, Cleveland, Ohio Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame Secretary-Treasurer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame Assistant Secretary James E. Deery, '10, Indianapolis. Ind Director to 1938 Don P. O'Keefe, '03, Detroit, Michigan Director to 1939 Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, New Jersey Director to 1940 Francis H. McKeever, '03, Chicago, Illinois Director to 1941 
Arthur J. Hughes, ' 11 .Chicago, Illinois To be elected—Member of 1937 Class 
the Summer months and attended the two days' opening of the National Air Races. 
Walter Scholand, of Rochester, is a new member of the Alumni club, having recently moved to Evans street, Williamsville. He says that he's anxious to hear from his old classmates. 
Bob Measer. 
* 

CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-Ill.) 
Frank J. Galvin. "23, First Trust Bids.. Hammond. President; Fred J. Solman. Jr.. *28, 5752 Erie Ave., Hammond, Secretary. 
We got together on Saturday, July 31, at the Crown Point Country Club in Crown Point, Indiana. There was no business meeting, the gathering being purely social, golf, buffet sup­per, and bridge. We had a turn-out of about 35 or 40 members, who enjoyed the afternoon and the eve­ning buffet supper and refreshments. 
Fred Solman. 

CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) 
Edward J. Eckert. '33. 5 Lawnridge Ave., Albany, President: H. V. Canavan. '28. 254 Patridse St., Albany. Secretary. 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. E. J. Hermes. '16. 1910 Oakland St. Lansins. President; J. Harvey Gauthier. '30. Bark River, Mich., Secretary. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY 
Anthony V. Ceres, '28. Perth Amboy Nat'l. Bank Bldff., Perth Amboy, President; Jonu Lisicki. '31. 215 Water Street. Perth Amboy. Secretary. 
CENTRAL OHIO Raymond J. Elchenlaub, '15. Hoster Realty Bids.. Columbus, President. 
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA 
^Villiam 3. McAlecr. '31. 1518 19th Avenue. Altoon-^. Pa., President: Edwanl F. Lee. 
•31. 210 13th Street, Altoona. P.-i.. Secre­tary. Since you last heard from us we have had a change of regime. Bill McAleer was elected to succeed Len 
Burnt at the helm of the Club for the next year. 
In connection with the anti-Com­munistic drive we have stimulated 
 Director to 1938 (ex-ofRcio)  __Director to 1938 

some thought by offering two medals, one each in Altoona Catholic High and Johnstown Catholic High, for the best essay on a subject chosen by the Club. Last June the subject was: "The Effect of Communism on Amer­ican Ideals." Len Bum*. John Hoff­man and Terry Wharton were the judges for Altoona, and Doc Ray­mond, Lou Williams and Bill Carrell were the judges in Johnstown. The whole idea seemed to meet with ap­proval, and we hope in the future to make the award amount to more, even working up, we hope, to a scholarship some day. 
Norb Rasher is anticipating an­other successful season at Altoona Catholic High, which be^ns to­morrow night. John Hoffman is now working for Automobile Finance in Stubensville, Ohio, and Dave Fogle took the fatal step in Bradford the last part of last month. He is work­ing for Personal Finance. 
Ted Lee. 
* 

CHICAGO 
Francis J. Oelerich. Jr., '32, 864 Larrabee St., Chicago. President: Georse A. Brauti­san, '29. Ill W. Washington St.. Chicago. Secretary. 
CINCINNATI 
Frank H. Sweeney, ex. *17. Kemper Lane Hotel, President; Clarence Brink. '31, 130S Cryer Ave., Hyde Park, Secretary. 
CLEVELAND 
Georse Kerver. "20. 800 Hickox Bids., Presi­dent; Cbmclius J. RnfSns, '32, 308 Euclid Bids.. Secretary. 
After the elections last spring, the membership list was fine - toothed combed in search of sturdy eligibles for the Board of Governors. The following were chosen from the host of likely men, to serve, in the terms of our charter, "in an advisory and directory capacity:" James A. Dubbs, Sr., Jon Beljoa, Dr. Myron Crawford, John Flynn, Gene Kane and Martin Rini. These men, together with past officers, Pat Canny, AI Grisanti and Larry Krai, who automatically serve for one year, constitute' the Board for the club year-37-38. At its first meeting, early in June, the Board named John P. Murphy as honorary 
president. You out there at school know John Murphy no better than we in Qeveland and we know his choice as Honorary President undisputably good. Serving as chairman of the board of governors is James A. Dabb<, Sr., another man who hasn't allowed his importance in big busi­ness circles to utterly divorce him from an active interest in local ND affairs. For Chaplain, our choice was Father Michael Moriarity. 
Then along came the annual golf party. Back in 1935, Pat Canny put across the most successful party to that date, success being measured by members in attendance, fun shared, and a minimum deficit upon final ac­counting. Directing this year's party. Canny won a return engagement. Out at Sleepy Hollow Country Club, with 70 or more in attendance, the day of golfing was topped by ban­queting. Prizes were as plentiful as the contests but the most coveted, the club's annual cup for low, went to Doctor Heiman, who took it from a course chock with strong contend­ers. Adding to the undoubted merit of the victory, it's reported that Joey Gavin, Howy Richards, George Hahn, Chuck Mooney, Larry Krai and Bill Van Rooy are familiar to Sleepy Hol­low players. Bill won the club 36­hole open in tournament play a couple of weeks later. Lone student registered in attendance was Ned Colgan, sophomore-coming up; Ned didn't have to count putts to win the student contest. 
Campus trudging done, diplomas tucked away with the litter of big game ticket stubs, logic notes and half torn photographs of Michigan Avenue belles, the following auto­matically joined our group with June graduation: Charles Leiben, Robert Lochner, Daniel J. Cullinan, Eugene 
F. Ling and Robert L. Waldeck. 
Warning: You new members will remain but names on the membership list unless you show up at the next club affair, date to be announced. 
Mention of the younger generation prompts reporting the birth of a son to Mr. and Mrs. Tom Byrne. Re­member Mrs. Byrne as Catherine Mc-Givem, St. Mary's, '33? Alas for en­rollment in the '50s, it was a daugh­ter bom to Mr. and Mrs. Al Shipa­casse. All concerned are hale. 
If the many who happened into town would have shown themselves to Chuck Rohr of the Fischer-Rohr Restaurant or to Al Grisanti at his Lakeside Cafe, full report of visiting ND men would have been assured. John Whitman, law school librarian, tripped all over town with Charlie here in August. Father Carey, ex-Registrar, was here last week in at­tendance at the National Catholic Youth Convention. Honey-mooning here was Ermin Reichert, Long Prai­rie, Minnesota, hotel man. Former The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Clevelanders, John Colangelo and Gay Haas, vacationed here, the latter now lives in Dayton. As special rep­resentative from the President's of­fice of NYCRR temporarily stationed here was Ward Leahy, '26, of Syra­cuse. Also seen about town were Carl Johnson, '29, of Kokomo, Irfdi­ana, and Doc Harrison, '29. Doc's a Department of Justice agent sta­tioned at the Great Lakes Exposition. Bill Conaton, Cleveland, Detroit, Chi­cago, Dixon, all in quick succession, now lives in White Plains, New York, with his bride taken at Log Cha­pel in June. Louis O'Shea, '31,. that good golfer from upper New York, has been seen frequently here. 
Classified listing again: (see June ALUSINUS Issue, class '33). Roger Brennan, far from government em­ploy, is associated with one of Cleve­land's top law firms, Tolles, Hogsett and Ginn. If seen in Washington, as he well may have been, it was on an ever so private assignment. Wouldn't Senator Burt Wheeler like to have known all about it! Kentucky Col­onel Hugh Ball, '32, new to Cleve­land, has his oifice in the East Ohio Gas Building. 
There's Jimmy Bourke, '33, who, after his appearance from home town Lima, left Cleveland Press reportor­ial staff to serve advertising ends at White Motor; Bob Morrissey is in insurance and only incidentally ranks as one of Cleveland's topmost golfers. Hank Gruen, '37, a new Clevelander, is in the clothes hangar business with his father who operates the main of­fice in Detroit. Jack Crosby manages the sport department of the May Company, and Jim Callaghan, '30, directs lamps and electrical supplies in the same store. 
The brother Raddatz, Les and Bod, are often seen downtown. Les is writing for Cleveland Electric D­luminating. National Alumni District Governor Otis Winchester, drums up stock certificate, bond and engraving orders for National Bank Note.' In different camps are Bill Krider, '26, and Jim Devitt, '13; Krider is cam­paign manager for Walter L. O'Don­nell, and Devitt is campaign manager for John P. McWilliams, both mayor­alty' candidates. Tom McGettrick, '36, will be a second year man in Harvard Law School in October. 
Chuck Rohr reports Fritz Slack­ford's purchase of a 68-acre lake­front estate along the west shore. Fritz Slackford reports Chuck Rohr is building a palatial residence in University Heights. Art Gallagher, '30, architectural engineer, (advt.) 
Suggestion: Drop a line to George Belting, Mount Royal Sanitarium, Brecksville, Ohio. George is putting up a stiff and winning fight. 
Formal announcement has been made of the engagement of John 
October, 1937 

Penote, '33, to Estelle Edel. Back from an extensive honeymoon trip in the East after the marriage at Log Chapel, Mr. and Mrs. Clayton G. Leroux are at home at 2374 Euclid Heights Boulevard, Cleveland Heights, Ohio. 
Note to Newlyweds: Jerry Reidy, '30, is back in the furniture business. 
The next party coming up is scheduled for September 10 at Eeg­natz-on-Warren. Tom Mulligan, sen­ior at school, just back from two months vacation in Europe, shoul­dered responsibility as chairman. Tom's plans promise a splendid af­fair. Of its success and the many more things, I'll write in another month. 
Nick Ruffing. 
* 

CONNECTICUT VALLEY Waiiam A. Hurley, '28. 70 Montrose St.. 
Sprinefield. Mass., President; Francis A. 
Aheam, '27, c.o Hartford Times, Hartford. 
Conn., Secretary. 

DALLAS James P. Swift, '24. 1202 Southwestern Life 
Bid?., Dallas, President; I^neis A. McCuI-
IcuKh, '30, 917 First National Bank Bids.. 
Dallas, Secretary. 

DAYTON Eugene Mayl, *24. 400 Irvins Ave., Presi­
dent; William Cronin, '29. 418 CraftonAre., 
Secretary. 
* 

DENVER Eobert A. Dick, '29, 931 14tli Ave., Presi­
dent; Harry Lawrence, '29. 1951 Lawrence 
St, Secretary. 
* 

DETROIT Gilbert F. Scbaefcr, '26, 17380 Monica, Pres­
ident; John W. Brennan. '27, 632 Fisher 
BId£r., Secretary. 

Your devoted scribe takes pen in hand to sum up what the Notre Dame Club of Detroit has done during the past year. It was a good year. Everyone helped and everyone en­joyed it, we hope. 
Our roster included 278 members. We lost a few and gained about the same number. Gil Schaefer began by laying out a definite plan, and it was followed. Committees were ap­pointed for each monthly meeting and they functioned willingly and capably. Monthly dinners were held at the University Club. Attendance ran from 60 to 100. Our guest speak­ers commented on the enthusiasm and outside guests tried to define the bond that brought the fellows so intimately together. 
The lecture series was held during the winter months. Many thought it would be diflBcult to finaiice and to get attendance. However, the mem­bers rose to the occasion and it was a success from both standpoints. 
We had our Christmas party at the Intercollegiate Club, Universal Notre Dame Night Party, Varsity Basketball Game with the University 
of Detroit, and our annual Commun­

•ion Breakfast. 
Following such an active season, the club put a cap on all of the year's activities and accomplishments by presenting Van Wallace with a fine, large, specially built automobile in which he can travel in comfort. It included all the fixings,—^radio, heat­er, etc. Van immediately saw new possibilities for keeping in contact with Notre Dame this coming season. These cosmopolitan Irishmen in De­troit are a swell bunch. 
I herewith wind up my term as secretary. It was a pleasant duty which I pass on to my successor, knowing that I shall miss it. 
John W. Brennan. 
Eds' note: And the thanks of the Alumni OfSce to a super secretary. * 
DES MOINES 
Harry O'Boyle, "27, 2801 Grand Av e Presi­dent: Richard Hyde. 'iS, 678 26th St. Secretary. 
* DUBUQUE 
C. t. Kraiewski. *16. 321 Bank & Insurance Bids.. President; Henry I. Trenkle. '24. 189 
S. Booth St., Secretary. 
EASTERN INDIANA 
Thomas A. Cannon. '33, 401 Wysor Btds.. Muncic, Ind.. President; Alvis E. Granger. ex. '31. 617 S. JeSerson St. Hattord CTity. Ind., Secretary. 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Leo R. Mdntyre, '28. Bethlehem, President; Ernest L. Wilhdm. '27. New Jersey Zinc Co., Research Dept, Palmerton, Secretary. 
ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA 
Charles J. Wittman, '31, 621 Schenley Dr., President: William K. Bayer. '36, 724 W. 10th St, Secretary. 
FLINT (Michigan) 
Stephen J. Roth, '31, 723 Union Industrial Blder-, President: Donald F. MacDonald. '31, 1631 W. Court St, Secretary. 
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 
Edward S. Sullivan. '24. 125 E. Suttenfidd St. President; Maurice J. DeWald, '33, Z415 Huburtus St, Secretary. 
GRAND RAPIDS 
George £. Ludwiff. '25, 328 Glenhaven Ave.. 
N. W., President: Raymond J. Bonini, '27, 607 Atwood. N.E., Secretary. 

GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN 
John Clancy, ex. '35, 525 S. Clay Street. Secretary. 

GREATER LOUISVILLE 
John Bannon, '32, 2011 Sherwood Ave., Louisville. President; Raymond Naber, '33, 417 S. •Western Parkway, Louisville, Secre­tary. 

We held a meeting in the latter part of June and one recently which were both well attended by the club members. We discussed the possibil­ities of a trip to the Minnesota or Pitt game, but had to discard both— one being too far and too costly, and 
the other hampered by good roads 
and fast autos. However, I assure 
you that there will be plenty from 
Louisville up to see the Pitt game. 
The club extends its heartfelt sym­

pathies to Ted Halpin upon the death 
of his mother. (Ted is a recent ad­
dition to our club, having moved to 
Louisville recently.) 
Since the last issue of the ALUM­NUS, we wish to congratulate Tony Schreiner upon his marriage to Bessy Bloemer, sister of Frank and Bemie Bloemer. Ray Pfeiffer passed around the cigars at the June meeting cele­brating the arrival of a future queen of a ball. 
Layden will have some good foot­ball prospects in Louisville if William Reisert, Jr. is able to keep up his good designing. His first, a boy, was big enough to be a candidate for a quarterback position. Just a mere 10 pounds at birth. 
Marion Heffeman, like all bankers, 

is trying to get an edge on yours truly in his race for District Gover­nor. Upon my arrival at the last meeting, I found Marion busy cam­paigning with cigars for votes. How­ever, I soon suprassed him as I had brought along a supply of Seven Crown and Five Crowns samples. 
The club also extends welcome to our recent alumni Emil Peter and ­William O'SuIlivan. At the same time, we ^%'ish luck and success to Ed Fischer, a home to^vn product, who chose to stay in South Bend to work on the Netvs-Times. 
Ray Naber. 
. * 

GOGEBIC RANGE (Michigan) 
Robert O'Callaghan, ex. '16, Gogebic Na­tional Bank, Ironwood, President: Francis 
J. Vukovich, *35, Ridge St, Ironwood, Mich., Secretary. 

* HAMILTON, OHIO 
M O. Bums. '86. 338 S. Second St. Presi­
dent; Marc A. Fiehrer, '27, 701 Rentschler 
BIdg., Secretary. 

* HARRISBURG 
Joseph Parrell, '15, 32 North 27th Street Camp Hill. Pa.. President: Robert M. John­ston, '33, City Chemist, Harrisburg, Pa., Secretary. 

HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wi..) 
Joseph A. Lauerman. *31, 1975 Riverside Ave., Marinette, Wis.. President: Francis C Boyce. ex. '32, 1401 First Ave., S„ Escan­aba, Mich., Secretary. 

Vic Wojcihovski and Frank Jehle have been added to the list of Notre Dame men in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, according to word from John Lemmer. Vic is director of athletics at Kingsford, and Prank is teaching at Manistique, and is as­sistant football coach there. 
HOUSTON 
M. E. Walter. '14, 1702 Stuart Ave.. Presi­dent: Raymond B. Keating, '35, 1810 Ster­ling Bldff., Secretary. 

INDIANAPOUS 
William K Krieg, '29, 5858 Forest Lane. President; fVancis Layden, '36. Indiana Bell Telephone Company. Secretary. 

Latest news from this gang. The annual' golf tournament was held Wednesday afternoon, August 25, at Broadmoor Country Club. Joe Argus was the general chairman. He was assisted by a trophy committee—Jim Kirbr, George Smith and Mike Fox; tournament committee — John Har­rington, Bob Moynahan, and Larry Sexton: publicity capably handled by John Rocap. 
The trophy gang outdid themselves in getting 20-odd trophies, the most outstanding being a very handsome traveling trophy upon which will he inscribed the winner of each tourna­ment. This was donated by P. C. Reilly. Other donors included Jake Wolf, Tom Quinn, F. Mahaffey, Dan Munn, G. F. Kirby, L. J. Keach, Charlie Rauh, Bill Mooney, John Reuu, guests from Fort Wayne, Wil­liam Umphrey Argni-Yaver, John Harrington, W. H. O'Connor, Robert Peele, Robert Shield; and still more prizes were arranged for by Mike Fox from Jack Langan, Jo<eph Ar­gus, Sr., Indianapolis Brewery, and Ray Fox; other local merchants con­tributed. 
It is easy to see that if you were one of the 60 attending and didn't get a prize you felt rather hopeless. Yours truly was one of the unfortu­nates. I think I'm better off than President Kreig, Dr. McDevitt, and Robert Peele who placed one, two, three in winning booby prizes. Har­rington took top honors with a low gross of 79. Moynahan was second with an 83, Bob lr»in third, 84, and John Welch tied with Joe Argus for fourth, with 85's. (Note—all mem­bers of the committee won a prize or prizes). Blind par prize went to Sex­ton, Reuss, William O'Connor, and Kiley in that order. 
The eats, beer and party in gen­eral was enjoyed by all. The com­mittee deserves a lot of credit. 
We're looking forward to a Fall campaign to increase our scholarship fund. 
Mike Layden. 

JACKSON, MICHIGAN 
Walter Ducey, '17. S39 W. Morrcli St. Pres­ident; Edward T. O'Neill, '26. Wildwood Apts., Secretary. 
* JOLIET, ILLINOIS 
Dr. Edward J. Hayer. '27, 301 Ruby St. President; lAwrenee J. I)nnda. ex. '33. 704 
N. Baynor Ave., Secretary. 
The first big outdoor event of the Summer was a stag outing at the Kankakee Kiver summer lodge of Bob Baskerville, '31. Swimming, boating, baseball, races, horseshoes, eats, refreshments and entertain­ment occupied a big day. 
The club sympathized with Robert 

E. Duffy, on the death of his mother a few months ago. 
Everyone enjoyed a series of in­formal get-together dinners held dur­ing the past six months in our club­rooms. These were attended by prominent Joliet men as well as by many of our club members. 
Then there was a dinner held for a Notre Dame man well-known and thought of in Joliet. He is Brother Lawrence Joseph, of the Christian Brothers. A fine dinner and inter­esting visit with Brother was very much enjoyed by all. Brother Law­rence Joseph was director of De La Salle High School in Joliet when Christian Brothers were in charge. 
A mixed outing was held the after­noon and evening of August 18 at the Joliet Rivals' Club summer lodge on the Kankakee River. Horseshoes, baseball, the novel game of bocce ball, (a variety of bowling, played outdoors), bridge, a chicken dinner with all the trimmings, refreshments and entertainment marked a very successful, well-attended affair. Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Dunn, of Mom's, Illinois, and friends, Mr. and Mrs. William Brown, also of Morris, were out-of-town guests. Tom is a Notre Dame man and a prominent attorney. 
Associate members are now being admitted to the club by nomination and vote of club members. These men are friends of both the club members and of Notre Dame and enjoy all the club activities. 
Francis A. Dunn, recipient of his law degree at Notre Dame in June, has been busy all Summer studying for the Illinois state bar examina­tions. He has the best wishes of all of us for success. 
Our sjTnpathy was offered to Fran, cis P. Kelly, also a June Notre Dame graduate, on the death of his mother on September 2. A requiem high Mass will be offered in behalf of the club for the repose of her soul on Monday, September 20, at 7:15 a.m., at Sacred Heart Church in Joliet. Francis has one more year of law at Notre Dame. 
Many club members spent enjoy­able vacations in various parts of the countrj'. Dr. E. J. Mayer, '27, and family traveled through Pennsyl­vania and the East and also lisited relatives in Pennsyl vania. Clarence Wilfaelmi, '18, visited Wisconsin and reports ha\nng had a fine time and ha\ing done some good fishing. 
La-wrence J. Dunda. 
* 

KANSAS 
Albert J. Gcbert. 'SO. U. of Wichita. Wich­ita, Kansas, President: Dan Wclchons. '80, 623 Elm St, Ottwa. Kansas, Secretary. 
* 

KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) 
Eol)ert Tyler, •29. 3616 Paseo Blvd., Kansas City, Mo., President: Charles E. Meyer, '29, 420 E. Armour Blvd.. Kansas Cifr, Mo.. Secretary. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
LAPORTE, INDIANA 
Nonnan E. Dulie. '34, 304 Niles St, Presi­
dent : Robert E. Quinn, ct. '39, 1401 Monroe 
St, Secretary. 
* 

LOS ANGELES 
Douglas Daley, *30. 7S1 Ceres Ave., Presi­dent: Thomas Ashe, '31, 2415 Flower St, Huntington Park, Secretary. 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
P. E. Burke, '88, 307 Camp St, New Or­leans, La., President; Cyprian A. Spor], Jr., '28, ^Vhitncy-Central Bide, New Orleans. La., Secretary. 
The writer took in the Louis-Brad­dock fight at which time had a very enjoyable ^'isit with Paul Johnson in Kokomo. Leo Grace is managing to hold his waistline down by bowling quite frequently. Paul and I had the pleasure of running into Pat Manion in the Palmer House Hotel before the fight. It was quite a coincidence, as we three had attended the Dempsey-Tunney fight just ten years prior. 
Harley McDevitt has been down tliis way on sevei-ai occasions cover­ing the Mississippi Gulf Coast for the National Geographic, and we had the pleasure of having him spend one week-end with us over in Biloxi. 
Mark Mooney made his initial visit to our city the other day. However, his plans were cut short and he could only be with us a day. He is pres­ently connected with the Carrier Cor­poration of Chicago and plans to get down this way more frequently in the future. 
Saw Judge Blache in the early part of Julj' and he told me he plans on making a trip up to school this com­ing Fall to take in one of the games. Understand Pinky Cassidy is contem­plating joining him on this trip. 
My cousin Edward, who has been working in the Tropics, is scheduled to be ti:ansferred to the States some­time in the next several months. I know he is anxiously looking forward to that as he has been down in the Tropics for the past four years. Have come in contact several times with the de la Vergne brothers and they look to be in the pink of condition. The same holds true for the Burkes. 
Gyp Sporl. 

MANILA 
Alfonso Ponce Eraile, '05. Manila. Presi­
dent: Gonzalo R, Valdcs, '35. 709 San Mar­
celino. Secretary. 
MEMPHIS 
John S. Montcdonico, '35. 327 Kenilworth PI., President: Theon F. Dohogne, '27, 1072 S. Wellineton St. Secretary. 

MIAMI, FLORIDA 
Vincent C. Giblin, '18, 4103 Collins Ave., 3Iiami Beach, President; Daniel J. Lino, ex. '34, 1617 N. W. Ninth Ave.. Miami. Secre­tary. 

MILWAUKEE 
John Qauder, '34, 1219 Vliet St. President: James Corrisan, '35, 1829 N. 69th St. Wau­watosa. Secretary. 
October. 1937 

MONTANA 
William B. Jones, '28, 411 Power BldR., Helena, President: Leonard D. Ref:an, '33. Montana Power Co., Great Falls, Secretary. 
* 

NASHVILLE Eetmedy Jones, '30, Jones Chemical Co.,
Secretary. 
NEW JERSEY 
Peter J. Quinn. ex. '33. 320 Belleville Ave.. Bloomfield. President; Philip Heinle, '35, 76 Oakview Ave,, Maplewood. Secretary. 
Father Hugh O'Donnell, vice-pres­ident of the University, extended a welcome to New Jersey youths who will attend the University this year as Freshmen. He spoke at Essex House at the annual dinner of the dug for prospective Freshmen. 
Other speakers were Citj' Commis­sioner Joe Byrne, Peter J. Quinn, president of the club, and Frank Bright, president of the campus club. Raymond A. Geiger, former president of the alumni, was toastmaster. Movies of football games in which Notre Dame participated last year were shown. 
The committee included Dr. Paul 
A. (Bucky) O'Connor, Dr. William Gedek, Dr. Gerald W. Hayes, Dr. John H. Papera, Dr. Vincent M. Whelan and Dr. Edward T. Yorke. 
A few of those I can remember seeing there were Jim Costello, Frank McDermott, Bus Griffin, Joe Drinane, Leonard Brown and the Wingerter brothers. We also welcomed a new member. Bob Bannon, '28, who has moved to Jersey recently. It goes without saying that we were very pleased and highly honored to have Fathe r O'Donnell as our main speaker. 
We are having our annual retreat in Morristown. The chairmen of the affair are Sal Bontempo and Dan O'Neill. 
During the Summer months the Jersey shore was the scene of acti\»i­ties for most of our members, and during my rambling around the re­sorts I met Joe Wade, Mush Rigante, Tom Purcell, Tom Flynn, Phil Am­heiter, Russ Compa, Bob Huetz, Russ Riley, and Don Dugan. 
Butch Bruno is in Newark to play for the Newark pro team in the American league, and he is going to join Ed Kirby, John Porcoro and Toby Kramer in the Newark Univer­sitj' law school. 
New officers for the club were elected at a meeting on June 6. They are: Pete Quinn, president; Bill Quirk, vice- president; Jack Driscoll, treasurer; and Phil Heinle, secretarj-. 
The first year's issue of the club paper was out recently under the editorship, as before, of Ray Geiger. The new name of the paper is the Notre Dame Jersey Echo. The Re­treat and the Freshman Party were the featured news. 
Phil J. Heinle. 

NEW YORK CITY 
Leo V. McLaughlin. '32, 70 Pine Street. New Yoric City. President: Henry R. Frey. 
•30. J226 Tinton St.. N. Y. C. Secretary. 
Summer did not find our organiza­tion inactive. President Leo V. Mc­Laughlin promoted a golf tourna­ment held in July at the Queensboro Golf Club. It was well attended. Harrison Pierce, '37, walked off with the day's spoils. Hardworking men like John Balfe, Warren Fogel and Bill Slader were not up to par with this late product of the N.D. golf course. 
John Gannon, '31, has completed his medical courses and is now treat­ing the good citizens of the Bronx as an interae at Fordham Hospital. 
John Balfe has been appointed chairman of the New York-Notre Dame Reception Committee of all Legionnaires visiting here during the convention. All Notre Dame vets are to get in touch with John at 51 East 42nd Street. 
Our Fall Welcome Party to the Class of '37 was held at the Centre Club on September 9. It was well attended. We were glad to hear from William E. Cotter, president of the Alumni Association. There were de­velopments on the following fronts: 
Doc GeUon is making extensive plans for the Army-Notre Dame din­ner-dance. 
William Daunt gave a stirring ad­dress urging all members to attend the annual club Retreat the week-end of September 17. This year the re­treat is to be held at the Bishop Malloy Retreat House, Jamaica, New York. Rev. Cosmas Shaughnessy, C.P., is the retreat director. 
Dan O'Neill reported on the Schol­arship Committee. Bill Clarke, of St. Gabriel's High School, New Rochelle, New York, won the scholarship of­fered by the club. Dan also told how the scholarship was made possible by the sale of chance books on some 20 choice seats for the Army-Notre Dame game. Since the game was a sell-out on September 3 these tickets should be in great demand. 
Jack Kenny, our former club pres­ident, has returned to New York, and needless to say all were glad to see him back in the fold. 
Through the efforts of Leo V. Mc­Laughlin, we secured the film "High­lights of the Notre Dame 1936 Foot­ball Season" from Jim Armstrong. Needless to say, the club members enjoyed the pictures immensely, espe­cially Wilke's hidden ball touchdown play in the Army-Notre Dame game. It was the best view of the play any of the members had ever seen. 
The club's famed golf tournament was also projected on the screen. Just why Pierce was so far superior was easily discernible. 
Joseph L. Rafter, who departed from this club in 1936 for the Com­monwealth of Pennsylvania, is doing a fine job as Director of the State Library and Museum, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. 

Saw Con Carey in Saranac Lake this Summer and found him doing a good job as county judge. He is digging in for the Fall campaign. 
Henry R. Frey. 
* 

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Bernard J. Afarott. '27, Latham Square Bldg.. Oalxland. President: Paul J. Gushing. 
•31. 1221 Centra! Bank Bldff.. Oakland. Sec­retary, 
* 

NORTHERN LOUISIANA 
Arthur J. Kane, '31, 307 Wilkinson, Shreve­port. President: J. Richard Nowery, '29, 1624 Creswell St, Shreveport, Secretary. 
* 

OCLAKOMA 
Joseph A. Moran. '32, 1611 S. Carson. Tulsa. President: Marion J. Blake, '33, National Bank of Tulsa Bldg., Tulsa, Secretary. 
Robert (Spike) Sullivan, '32, of Badin Hall fame, was one of the six engineers to give expert testimony for the Carter Oil Company at a de­partmental hearing in Washington, 
D.C. Spike is division engineer for the Carter Oil Company. 
James Wade, '33, is well on his way for a Ph.D. degi-ee from St. Louis University. Jim not only finds time to direct a couple of classes in English, but he is also editor of a campus publication. 
Bob Siegfried, '37, has gone to Detroit where he is being initiated into the insurance field. Joe Mc-Nulty, '37, manages to work in a set of tennis now and then. He is learn­ing the oil game from the ground up. 
A new member of our local club is Frank Reidy, '37, of Oil City, Pennsylvania. Frank has forsaken his native state and is now employed by the Warren Petroleum Company here in Tulsa. Martin Reidy, '30, is practically a native, now haWng been with the Sinclair Oil Company here in Tulsa for the last four years. 
.A.11 of us are looking forward to the next meeting of the Notre Dame Club which will probably be held sometime next month. At that time I expect to gather information con­cerning many of the fellows whom I have not contacted recently. 
Marion J. Blake. 
* 

OREGON 
Charles J. Hirschbuhl. '22. 2130 N. York. Portland, President: Harold J. Harstick. '25. 633 N.E. Everett, Portland, Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Oregon reciprocate the sentiments you expressed in the report of your visit to Portland last May 8, Jim. 
Your personal contact with the membei-s of the club was most en­joyable to us. You have also made many new friends and, with Arthur Hughes, a memorable impression. 
We each hope to return the favor of your visit; in calling on you, and in visiting at Notre Dame. 
Among the alumni members we can report a new father—Ronald Sullivan, proud in announcing a son bom August 7; also a grandfather —Samuel Dolan, '10, his daughter Mary being blessed with a son. 
This year at the Portland Univer­sity Commencement exercises our president Charles Hirschbuhl, pre­sented on behalf of the Notre Dame Club of Oregon, the athletic-scholar­ship award, of a watch, to Raymond Vengelen. 
Summer school faculty members at Portland University included Fa­ther Arthur Hope and Father James Fogarty. Father John Cavanaugh visited the University, enjoying a five weeks' vacation. Roge Kiley was also through this city and stopped to call on friends. 
R. L. (Matty) Mathews, a team mate of Knute Roclcne, will take over the football reins at Portland Uni­versity, and has started drilling his Pilots for a strenuous eight-game schedule. Matty formerly coached Willamette, Gonzaga, Idaho, and St. Louis universities. 
George Philbrook is director of athletics. Ivan Sharp We understand is a new comer to Portland, and is in the electrical appliance business. 
William C. Schmitt. '10, had a birthday brought to his attention on August 19. 
Dominic Callicrate, 'OS, toured in California this year during his vaca­tion period. He visited many friends and classmates: Chester Freese, '10, in Los Angeles; Terence Cosgrove, '06, attorney in Los Angeles; Frank Barry, '02, in Los Angeles; Steve Gavin, '06; Eugene Kennedy, '22; Daschbach, '06, was found to be a "blind" man and enjoying a nice business, at Encino; John Wadden, '07, was also called but was vaca­tioning. A fine visit was enjoyed with Louis Mangen, ex. '07, now a physician in Willmington, and dur­ing spare moments attends to wel­
fare of Union Oilsonnel.   Company  per­ 
*  H . J. Harsti ck.  
PARIS  

Louis P. Harl, '16, Paris Office, New York Herald-Tribune. Paris, France, President, 
* 

PEORIA 
Ai Gory. Jr., '28, 530 W. Richwoods Blvd.. President: John Sloan, '33, 233 N. Under-hill. Secretary. 
The Alumni Club of Peoria held a picnic on Sunday, June 13, at Dr. Ward's farm just outside the city. The event was such a success, in spite of a heavy rain just before the 
picnic and threatening skies through­out the afternoon, that a second pic­nic -was held at the same spot, Sun­day, August 22. Henry Pratt and John Carmody were in charge of the last picnic, which was even as great a success as the first, which had been in charge of Ernie Hechinger. 
The Peoria Club vdth the aid of the New York Central Railroad is sponsoring a special train of rooters to the Notre' Dame-Hlinois game played at Champaign. Al Gury, Ernie Hechinger, and Dutch John-ion are handling the arrangements. It is planned to make Peoria the cen­ter of celebration the night after the game, with a number of the gang from Chicago already planning to show the Peoria lads how it is done. 
We were to have a Notre Dame Club Pall Dance, Saturday, Septem­ber 11, at the Shore Acres Coun­try Club. Alex Sloan was chairman. We sent the undergraduates back to school in gala style. Alex was as­sisted by Dick Delaney, Ernie Hech­inger, and George Best. 
John Sloan, Jr. 

PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
E. J. Hnkert, '22. 402 TiUe & Trust BWB.. 
Phoenix, President. 

PHILADELPHIA 
William E. Cooney, •32. 5725 McMalion 
Ave., President; A. J. Wadterman. *35, 
5356 Chew St., Secretary. 

Ed Bailey had some of the boys out to his diggings on August 15 for a picnic and a challenge Softball game between the club members and the nine Bailey kids, and the Bailey clan took over their unconditioned opponents in easy stj'le. 
Two club members, Harry Francis and Joe Dalsey were married in the"' latter part of the Summer, but as yet I have not received any of the de­tails. . . . Ray Broderick and Jack Matthews are still continuing the pursuit of their law studies un­checked, having received word that they both passed their second year law exams. Jack spent part of the Summer gaining experience in the office of the Philadelphia public de­fender and feels that he has done something worthwhile in helping the downtrodden secure justice. 
I've noticed that Connie Byrne and Tom Carroll have been keeping rather steady company lately. Could it be that Tom is trying to interest Connie in taking out a plan in the investment trust company that he's connected with? . . . President Bill Cooney went through a rather anx­ious period this Summer when a strike was called at the establishment of McArdle & Cooney, manufacturers of plumbing supplies. .. . I met Jack Kenny in Atlantic City one evening and he informed me that he spent part of his vacation away from Trav­elers' Insurance taking the Bar exams. All you men with legal troubles will soon be able to call on Jack to see that justice is done unto you! 
Our football coaches have their teams whipped into pretty good shape. Reports from Villanova have it that Clipper Smith and Vince Mc-Nally have one cracker-jack of a squad — not team — this year, but you'll never get the Clipper to admit it. Marty Brill's La Salle team seems slated for a good season, with the news that he has acquired some good new material. . . . Pat Conway and his West Catholic High gang need only the breaks to give a good ac­count of themselves this season. . . . Lindsay B. Phoebus, a newcomer in town, from Cumberland, Maryland, is 
working for the Philadelphia Record 
newspaper. .. . I received a letter from Ed Donohue, ex. '33, informing me that he was in town for quite some time to come, and I'm looking forward to making his acquaintance at the September meeting. 
Adrian J. Wackerman. 

RHODE ISLAND & SOUTH. MASS. 
Thomas Collins, '28, 16G New Boston Road, Fall River. Mass., President; John R. Jolly, ex '18, 457 Pa%%tucket Avenue, Pawtucket, 
R. I., Secretary-

ROCHESTER (New York) Frank Norton, '32, 80 Beckwith Terrace. President: D. Bernard Hennessy, '34, 119 Bedford St., Secretary. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY (lUinois) Joseph Bittdorf, ex. '33, 105 IGth St, Ster­ling, m.. President; Edward Sunivan, ex. '33, Amboy, HI., Secretary. 
SAN ANTONIO 
William V. Dielmann, Jr., '25, 107 Thelma IfTlve, President; Edward G. Conpoy, '30, 201 E. Craie PI., Secretary. 

SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) 
Thomas F. Van Aarle. '21, Standard On Ob.. Sasinaw. Mich., President; William G. Hur. ley, '25, 117 Cherry SL, Saginaw, HidL. Secretary. 

SANDUSKY, OHIO 
E. H. Savord, '12, Box 135. President: 
Charles M. Moueh, '25, 925 W. Washington 
St., Secretary. 

SOUTHWESTERN CONNECTICUT 
John M. Hnrphy, '27, 86 Liberty St, Bridse­port President; Edward P. Monahan, *84, 304 Beechmont Ave.. Bridgeport, Secretary. 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
Charles G. Corcoran, '17,' 11S4 W. Monroe 
St, President: Paul D. McConndl, '32, 120 
S. Walnut St. Secretary. 

President Charlie Corcoran reports a club Summer of hot activity. "There was a picnic first at Lake Spring­field, with about 40 members, wives and other fair ladies present. Nick Armhein and Bill Cour, present stu­dents, were there and had as their guest Chuck Sweeney, of Blooming­ton, varsity end of the present sea­son. 
Later there was a stag picnic at which plans were completed for a benefit for the local St. James Trade School, an orphanage conducted by the Franciscans. As a result some one will have eight box seats for the Notre Dame-Illinois game in nearby Champaign on October 9. That game is, of course, definitely a "natural" in Springfield and all the city will be out in force. 
To promote the benefit, a large booster meeting was conducted on August 16, with Frank Zimmerman, chairman of the managing cominit­tee, in charge. Ben Sheridan, soph­omore halfback candidate fro m nearby Havana, Illinois, was present. 
Charlie has big things planned for the immediate future. There will doubtless be a large dance soon, he says. 
* 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Jjoais C Chapleau, '30, 301 Union Trust Bldg., South Bend, Ind., President; Oarencc Harding, '25, South Bend Tribune, South Bend, Ind., Secretary. 
* 

ST. LOUIS 
Dr. Matthew W. Weis, ex. '23, 330 Metro­politan Bldg., President; David J. Rielley, Jr., '30, 214 S. Mcramec, Clayton, Mo., Sec­retary. 
* SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
Donald Sheehy, '33, 104 Glahn Ave., Syra­cuse, President; William S. Gate, '27, 136 Harding Place, Syracuse, Secretary. 
* 

TIFFIN, OHIO 
G. J. Schmidt, 'II, 260 Melmore St., Presi­dent: Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Secretary. 
* TOLEDO 
Edward J. Hagerty, '28, B36 Woodville, President; Raymond Ii. Tillman, '25, 2027 Bretton PI., Secretary. 
TRI-CITIES (Illinois-Iowa) 
George Uhlmeyer, '23, Peoples' Light Co., Moline, DI., President: Elmer W, Besten, '27, 1711 W. Sixth St, Davenport, Iowa, Secretary. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
John Donnelly, '34, 37 Washington Street Binghamton, President; John Murphy, '35, 43 Knecland Ave., Binghamton, Secretary. 
 TRI-STATE (Ind.-IH.-Ky.) 
E. Brown Miller, '24, Southern Commercial 
Corp.. Citizens Bank Bldg.. Evansville, Ind., 
President: Dr. Wm. J. Endress, '25, 301 
Grant Street, Evansville, Ind., Secretary. 
Alumni of the Tri State area en­joyed a -meeting with some 80 boys from the Eeitz Memorial High School, (conducted by the Brothers of Holy Cross), on the night of September 
13. The meeting was featured by the showing of the "Highlights of 1936," explained in detail by Don King, coach at Memorial. The Brothers and a number of local priests en­
joyed a pre-view of the films on the preceding night The Club is set for an active year. 
TWIN CITIES (MinneioU) 
Gerald F. Conway. '32. David. Inc. Elrat National Bank Bids-. St. Fanl. Preaident; 
A. K. Sullivan, '27. 264 Lovny Uedical Arts Bids., St. Paul. Secretary. 
* 

UTAH 
Raymond R. Brady, '24, 206 Keams Bids., Salt Lake City. President: Cyril Harbecke. '19. 64 F. St, Salt lake Caty, Secretary. 
UTICA, NEW YORK 
Br. John F. Kelley, '22, Peoples Gas & Elec­tric Bldg.. President: Joseph W. Fnllem, '31, 1621 Neilson St., Secretary. 
WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Paul Kennedy, '24, Terapleton, Ind., Preai* dent. Emmctt Fereuson, '32, Wallace Bids., Lafayette, Ind., Secretary. 
WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT 
John Robinson, '23. 32 Farminston Ave,, President: James M. Uonaghan. *27. 44 Ayer St., Secretary. 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Paul Bsretz, '27, 1833 New Hampshire Ave.. 
N. W.. President: 
WEST VIRGINIA 
Vincent Eeishman. '35. 1217 Lewis St.. Charleston. President; William Kenney, '34, 714 State St, Charleston, Secretary. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
D. M. "Turk" Meinert '28, 85 Grand Ave., Etna. Pa.. President; Bernard W. Conroy, '30, 1109 Kenneth Ave., New Kensington, Pa., Secretary. 
George Schill is now connected with the city of Pittsburgh as super­intendent of municipal equipment in the Department of Public Safety. In case you have any iire engines to sell —see George. 
Lou Walsh is still doing well with the Universal Cement Company. 
Pinky Martin has taken a position with the Chrysler Pittsburgh Corpor­ation, and his brother Don is work­ing for the Pennsylvania Department of Assistance located in the new. County Building. 
John O'Connor is back in Pitts­burgh after a few months in Harris­burg- He still has a position ^vith State. 
Red Edwards and Clipper Smith are busy getting their football teams, at St. Vincent's and Duquesne, in shape for the season- These two old teammates will clash in a night game the same day that Notre Dame and Carnegie Tech play here. So put October 16 down as big day for football in Pittsburgh. 
Al Diebold, Jr. and his bride have settled down in the Morewood Apart­ments. 
The city is full of politicians, and two of the outstanding ones are Notre Dame men. They are Jim O'Toole, candidate for re-election to the City Council, and John J. Ken­nedy who is seeking the position of Common Pleas Judge. We are wish­ing them both success. 
Vince Sweeney is keeping busy since his connection with the C.LO. here. 
Vince Burke has opened up offices at 1100 Peoples Bank Building, and is busy building up his law practice. 
Fritz Wilson, Jack Sheedy, and Ed Byrnes will be leading a large delegation to the Pitt game at school. Wilson's clothes are still being worn by the best dressed men in Pitts­burgh. 
Joe Bach gets back for a visit now and then. He must think well of the football talent in this district. 
Charley Totten, who is in the cop­per business, still hits a beautiful golf ball. . 
Ed O'Brien's address is 5928 Bry­ant Court, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
Joe O'Rourke can be located at the Catholic Charities, Community Fund Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
The alumni and students got to­gether for an evening of dancing at The Willows this Summer. And the students held a get acquainted meet­ing, also at The Willows, just before returning to school-
I would like to have any visitors in Pittsburgh pay our place a visit. The Willows is located at Oakmont on the Allegheny River just 15 min­utes drive from Pitt Stadium. 
Bernie Conroy. 

WESTERN WASHINGTON 
James M. Phelan. ex. '17, University of Washinston, Seattle, President: Emmett G-Lenihan. '15, 1405 HoRe Bide., SeatUe. Secretary­
* WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA 
Ralph Jorden, '26, Bridgeport Ohio, Presi­
dent; Leo J. Kletzly, '31, 10 Zone St, 
Wheeling, Secretary. 
WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
Sister ElizaiMth Seton. S.C., Saint Mary's College, Holy Gross, Ind-, President; • Sister 
M. Anselice, B.V.M., S t Joseph Convent. Mt. Cannel, Dubuque, Iowa, Secretary. 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Moran, '29, 1348 Quinn. President; Charles Cnshwa. '31. 463 Madera Ave.. Secretary. 
The Summer has been a very busy one for me. I have been away a great deal, and have had little or no chance to see any of the boys. 
Saw Gabe and Johnny Moran on the golf course not long ago and 
they still talk a great game. Jack Kane, I see more frequently. He is assistant prosecutor and is doing well. His wife is virtually a widow, though. He has lots to do since the steel strike here. 
Jolin Buckley is going to be a judge here for a few months at least. He was the only candidate to file for the unexpired term of another jurist who vacated his chair. 
We were delighted to learn of Larry Mullin'* new position at Loy­ola and wish him the best of luck. If he needs some husky steel men, he can get in touch with his Mahoning Valley scout! With Tom Conley in Cleveland it will be tough, though! 
Charlie Cuskwa. 

NOTRE DAME IN MEXICO 
Professor Pedro de Landero, '11, has returned from a Summer in Mex­ico to resume his work on the faculty of the University. 
His two sons, Carlos, '36, and Tel-mo, '37, accompanied their parents to Mexico. Both revalidated their engineering degrees at the National University in Mexico City. Carlos, with both mining and civil en^neer­ing degrees, is now working at the silver mines in Pachuca, Mexico, with the Real del Monte Co., a subsidiary of the United States Smelting and Refining Co. He is also doing a lit­tle fencing to keep in shape for the next Olympic games. Telmo has re­turned to South Bend and is working for the South Bend Lathe Co. 
Professor Walter Langford, '30, obtained his Master's degree at the Summer session of the National Uni­versity of Mexico. He was gradu­ated cum laude and after his gradua­tion he was the guest of Pedro de Landero at a banquet to celebrate the occasion. Professor Frank Mc­Mahon, Carlos and Telmo de Lan­dero, and five students who went to Mexico with Professor Langford from Notre Dame, were guests. 
Ignacio Quintanilla, '15, is work­ing in the Economy Department of the Mexican Government, as chief engineer of the mining inspectors. 
Enrique Creel, '36, is working with the firm Arozarenc and Gomez Ro­bleda, architects, Mexico City, and has already built and sold several houses. 
Lucio Muniain, '33, has a factory of his own in Mexico City, manufac­turing concentrates for refreshments, and other chemical products. 
William Agnayo, '30, had his de­gree revalidated by the National Uni­versity of Mexico in September, which entitles Mm to practice engi­neering in Mexico. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1937 
THE ALUMNI 
Five-Year Class Reunions Restored 
Dix Plan Not Popularly Accepted; Notre Dame System of General Reunion Proving Effective. 
By a wide margin, the Dix Plan of Class Reunions, whereby a Class holds a reunion with the three other Classes that were in school at the same time, rotating so that its own complete college progress is so cov­ered within a 20-year period, and spaced at 5-year intervals (not dat­ing from the year of graduation how­ever), was voted out, and the 5-Year Plan, whereby a Class holds an offi­cial reunion ever}' 5 years after its graduation, restored. 
(That sentence explains the action 

of the members.) 
For a while, it looked as though numbers were going to bring about a situation requiring more mechani­cal organization both among students and alumni. The Dix Plan was in­troduced to meet this situation. 
Happily, by the construction of the Dining Halls, by the increase of resi­dence halls, by the limitation of en­rollment, and by a continued pro­gram of close alumni contact, the threatened mechanization has not been necessary. 
So it is a logical step to discard 

Engogefflenfs 
Announcement has been made of the following engagements: 
Miss Edit h Semetkovsky and Charles N. Beretz, '27, Yonkers, New York. 
Miss Marthe Szabo and Paul O. Beretz, '27, Washington, D.C. 
Miss Bette Jane Breit and John Barry O'Keefe, '32, Chicago, Illinois. 
Miss Alice Danisich and William 

B. Jones, '28, Helena, Montana. 
Marriages 
Miss Lillian CuUinan and Charles 

M. Murphy, '06, were married June 16 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
Miss Audrey Hyde and John J. Reynolds, '20, were married -A.ugust 7 in Seattle, Washington. 
machinery which is not as effective 
as the find old hand craft it was de­
signed to supplant. 
Therefore—in 1938, on June 3, 4 

and 5, the Classes of 1933, 1928, 
1923, 1918, 1913, 1908, 1903, 1898, 
1893, 1888, and 1883 will be the 
official Reunion Classes. 
Emphasis will, as under the Dix 

Plan which we modified, still attach 
to the 5-Year Class, 1933, the 25­
Year Class, 1913, and the 50-Year 
Class, 1888. 
The Honorarj' President, Father 

Bums, will observe his Golden Jubi­
lee in June. The President, Bill Cot­
ter, ^ril^ observe his Silver Jubilee. 
As for 1933, 565 members of that 
Class enjoyed the greatest Com­
mencement in the history of the Uni­
versity. So the forecast for the Re­
union set-up of these three key 
groups in 1938 is obvious. 
The other groups, on the 5-Years, 
are all live outfits, or will be by the 
time such Class Secretaries as Louis 
Buckley, Paul Castner, John Lem-
mer, Jim Devitt, Frank Cull, Frank 
Burke, Bill Kegler, Louis Chute, and 
John Heineman, wind them up. 
Miss Ruth Carmody and Harry W. Flannery, '23, Were married July 5 in Watervliet, Michigan. 
Miss Doris Marie Limbach and Raymond R. Brady, '24, were mar­ried September 2 in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
Miss Helen Conley and Dr. Ed W. Lakner, '25, were married June 28 in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Elvera Frances Lytle and John E. Probst, '26, were married August 21 in the Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
Miss Margaret Scharfe and John Kelly, '26, were married June 30 in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Genevieve M. Tomjack and Ermin E. Reichert, '27, were married at Notre Dame. 
Miss Ruth Marie Friday and Al­fred J. Diebold, '27, were married June 30 in SewicMey, Pennsylvania. 
Miss Ruth Elizabeth Faulkner and Henry Watts Eicher, '27, were Mar­
ried October 10, 1936 in Washington, D.C. 
Miss Eleanor Monahan and Paul 
W. Ryan, '27, were married June 21 in Rutland, Vermont. 
Miss Thelma Geraldine Gramp and Frank J. Brechenter, '27, were mar­ried September 3 in Washington, D.C. 
Miss Mary Margaret Willman and Laurence A. Wingerter, '28, were married August 9 in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Naomi Armistead and John Paul Berscheid, '29, were married September 2 in Birmingham, Ala­bama. 
Miss Celeste Doyle and Edward J. Oempsey, '30, were married July 31 in Lansing, Michigan. 
Miss Florence Marie Bolan and James W. Murray, '31, were married June 26 in New York City. 
Miss Catherine O'Shaughnessy and John Maynard Herbstritt, '31, were married June 30 in Chicago. 
Miss Helen Marie Norton and Walter J. Murphy, '31, Were married May 29 in New York. 
Miss Lorraine Wiedland and James 
B. Gallagher, '31, were married Sep­tember 25 in New York. 
Miss Ethel Johnson and Norbert Schaller, '32, were married June 27 in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
ADss Elizabeth Catherine Regnerj' and Joe G. Dalsey, '32, were married June 26 in CoUingswood, New Jer­sey. 
Miss Florence Glennon and Ralph 
A. Schewe, '32, were married June 26 in Stevens Point, Wisconsin. 
Miss Maria Madero and Edward C Labarthe, '32, were married August 19 in Coahuila, Mexico. 
Miss Nell Veronica Fitzgerald and Frank H. Emerick, '32, were mar­ried July 10 in Savannah, Georgia. 
Miss Sylvia Bludau and J. Warren Schwantes, '33, were married July 10 in Waupaca, Wisconsin. 
Miss Jeanne Phelan and George Henry Rohrs, '33, were married Sep­tember 15 in New York. 
Miss Maria Alice Freeny and James Omar Cole, *33, were married June 10 in Washington. 
Miss Dorothy Runkle and John B. 
Crowe, '33, were married September 4 in South Bend. 
Miss Mary Frances Regan and Arthur Thomas Ruppe, '33, were married September 11 in South Bend. 
Miss Margaret Jane Alward and Thomas A. Cannon, '33, were mar­ried June 24 in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Agnes Durkin and Dr. John Frederick, '33, were married October 9 in Chicago, Illinois. 
Miss Anna Marie Patricia Harran and Edwin William Kenefake, '34, were married September 4 in Sche­nectady, New York. 
Miss Ruth Bixler and Otty J. Cer­ney, '34, were married September 4 in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Mabel K. Reinhardt and James C. Curran, '34, were married .-Vugust .17 in the Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
Miss Helen Korpal and Joseph Francis Kubiak, '34, were married June 19 in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Bemadette VanTuyl and John Benedict DeWilde, '34, were married July 31 in the Dillon Hall Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Helen Marie Mordaunt and Joseph Aloysius Young, '34, were married June 22 in Canadensis, Pennsylvania. 
Miss Regina Fenton and John Kin­ney Tingley, '35, were married Sep­tember 11 in Norwich, Connecticut. 
Miss Stephanie Lesnikowski and Joseph Andrew John, '35, Were mar­ried September 4 in the Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
Miss Marguerite Elizabeth Drier and Falmore Bath Harris, '35, were married September 4 in South Bend. 
Miss Dorothy Banks and Norman David Shambleau, '36, were married June 19 in Toledo, Ohio. 
Miss Elizabeth Determan and Rob­ert A. Manning, '36, were married September 4 in Sioux City, Iowa. 
Miss Cosette Routt and John F. Whitaker, '36, were married Septem­ber 11 in South Bend. 
Miss Rosella A. Murphy and George J. Moriarty, '36, were mar­ried August 8 in Swampscott, Mas­sachusetts. 
Miss Virginia Underwood and Philip R. Bondi, '37, were married in the Dillon Hall Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Lucille Curtis and John Whiteleather, '37, Were married. 
Miss Margaret Jane Belvel and James Edward Beaudway, '37, were married September 26 in South Bend. 
Birfhs 
Mr. and Mrs. Clarence W. Bader. '19, announce the birth of a son, July 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. Lyie E. Miller, '23, announce the birth of a daughter, Linda Lee, July 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Bartley, '25, announce the birth of twins. Sheila and Patricia, August 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Coyne, '27, announce the birth of a son, August 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Withey, ex. '27, announce the birth of a son, Stephen Anthony, August 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Toussaint, '28, announce the birth of a son, William Anthony, March 31. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Phelan, '28, announce the birth of a son. 
Mr. and Mrs. Floyd Searer, '28, announce the birth of a son, June 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald C. Ludwig, '28, announce the birth of a son, Philip Wallace, August 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. James £. Digan, '29, announce the birth of a daughter, Patricia Ann, June 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. James T. Conners, '30, announce the birth of a son, James Thornton Conners, Jr., July 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. James B. Jones, '30, announce the birth of a girl last June. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward G. McClal­len, '31, announce the birth of a daughter, Nancy Worth, July 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. William A. Morphy, '31, announce the birth of their sec­ond son. 
Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Petretic. '32, announce the birth of a son, Charles Arthur, August 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. B. William Harring­ton, '32, announce the birth of a son, Michael Borden, -A.ugust 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward C. Massa, '33, announce the birth of a son, Michael Edward, June 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. Laurence D. Choui­nard, '33, announce the birth of a son, Eugene Daniel, July 13. 
Mr. and Mi-s. Lowell L. Hagan, '34, announce the birth of a son, -August 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. Wells Robison, '34, announce the birth of a son, Edward Patrick, May 26. 
Deafhs 
Dr. Joseph M. Toner, 67 years old, a student at Notre Dame in 1900, one of California's leading public figures, died in his home in San Francisco on August 25 after an op­eration last May from which he had never fully recovered. 
Dr. Toner held numerous public offices in San Francisco and, under Governor Rolph and for some time afterwards, he was state director of institutions. Throughout these per­iods he was widely known for his charity and for his continual efforts to curb the evils of narcotic addic­tion. Surviving are his wife, two sons and a daughter. 
Eugenio Yrisarri, 75 years old, a student at Notre Dame in 1880-83, died in Albuquerque, New Mexico, in July as the result of an accident in which an automobile hit the horse and buggy he was driving. The news of his death was very kindly sent to the ALUMNUS by Rabey Funk, '25, an architect in Albuquerque. Sur­viving Mr. Yrisarri are a daugher, a sister and two grandchildren. 
Conley Murphy, ex. '28, a brother of John Pat Murphy, '28, died in Shreveport, Louisiana, on July 28, according to a very brief report re­ceived in the Alumni Office. 
Equally brief was the news of the death of John Charles Winegardner, '37, on the same day—July 28. 
Returned mail indicated the death in Chicago of Phil Armstrong, '16, on July 22. 
Notre Dame lost two of her most noted honorary aluumni within the Summer. The world-famous Gugli­elmo Marconi, LL.D., '33, died on July 20 in Rome, and Morgan J. O'Brien, LL.D., '20, prominent New York jurist and outstanding Catholic layman, died in New York on June 16. 
James Francis Sweeney, 90 years old, died on August 6 in Butler, Pennsylvania. A student at Notre Dame from 1867 to 1869, Mr. Sween­ey had served in the Civil War as a musician in the Navy. 
A brief notice brought word of the death of Sister Mary Joseph Dailey, O.S.U., M.A. '22, in Toledo, within the Summer. 
Sister Clementine Oler, S.C, M.A, '22, died at Seton Hill College, Greensburg, Pennsylvania, on Au­gust 13. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sym­pathy to: Michael Doaahne, '93, Upon 
22 The Notre Dame Alumnus October. 1937 
the death of his son; to Very Rev. Jamec W. Donahue, C.S.C., '07, upon the death of his father; Jame> F. O'Brien, '13, upon the death of his wife; Milej J. Ryan, '26, upon the death of his brother; Rev. Paul D. Dohertr, C.S.C., '24, upon the death of his father; Gerald Sheibley, '28, upon the death of his father; Edward 
J. Koontz, '32, upon the death of his mother; J. William Gosselin, '33, and William W., '27, upon the death of their father; Paul R. Brannon, '34, and John E. Brannon, '28, upon the death of their father; Carl E. Zim­merer, '22, Leo Zimmerer, '22, and Mark Zimmerer, '21, upon the death of their father; Thomas A. '12, and Henry Itadore Dockweiler, '12, upon the death of their mother. 
Personals 
Befor e 1S8 0 Secretary: Hon. T.F.Gal-
Father Norbert Hoff, of the Uni­versity faculty, reports that, en route to Norway this Summer, he met a Notre Dame prep of 1873-74—Frank Summ of Wheeling, West Virginia. 
1IUU).188S Secretary: Prot Robert M. 
aoovioc w Anderson. ClrdCTaie. Ohio. 
188 S Secretary: Michael O. Bonu. 338 S. 
^^ ^ Second St. HamHton. Ohio. 
liUtT.lfUlR Secretary: J. !>. Heineman, 
1.00f ±ooo conn^n^ie, Indiana. 
Jgg 9 Secretary: P. E. Burke. 301 Camp 
New Orleans, liouisiana. 
1890.189 ^ Secretary: Louis P. Chute, 7 
tOSV-lOJ^O uniy. Ave.. Minneapolis. Minn. 
Stephen B. Fleming, Fort WajTie, Indiana, recently resigned his posi­tion as district manager of the HOLC, effective September 1, after a particularly successful term of of­fice since 1933. 
. Mrs. Charles P. Neill, Washington, D.C., on behalf of the Catholic women of the District of Columbia, welcomed the delegates to the recent national convention of the National Council of Catholic Women. 
iaQ 4 Secretary: Hush A. ODonnell, 1 W. 
eia St.. New York City. 
The daughter of Frost Thorne, Fort Worth, Texas, visited the cam­pus on July 9. 
189 S Secretary: Euatace Cullinan, Sr., 860 
Phelan Bide.. San Francisco, Calif. Frank Wolf Davis, Constantine, Michigan, and Mrs. Davis, are enjoy­ing a trip through Europe. Father 
B. J. Ill, C.S.C., received a card from Germany saying that France, Eng­land, Italy, Switzerland and Austria were among the spots visited. Mr. and Mrs. Davis left by way of Can­ada and are spending several weeks in New York City on their return. Thev will be home in November. 
lag e Secretary: William P. Bums. *Z7 
aav u wniard Ave.. Michigan CitT, Indiana. 
Major F. J. Wensinger, Ashland, Ohio, who attended Notre Dame as a prep and as a college student be­tween 1891 and 1896, visited the campus in early September. Major Wenanger, now retired from the Army, served in the Spanish-Ameri­can War and as chief ordnance o£S­cer of the Sixth Army Corps, A-EJ"., in the World War. He has collected, as a hobby, a large variety of guns, projectiles and similar military ma­
terial which he transports in atrailer for the inspection of interested per­sons. 
189 7 Secretary: Bev. J. A. UacNamara. 8t. 
Jos. Sanitariom. Mt. denjens. Mid. William A. Walsh, Yonkers, New York, was on the campus on Septem­ber 14 to help the second of his sons get a start at Notre Dame. Bill, the first son, was graduated in 1936. 
Igg a Secretary: William C. Keder. Sth & 
Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati. Ohio. 
189 9 Secretary: Sr. Joseph V. Dnane, 418 
•OO0 Jefferson Blvd.. Peoria. EL 
1900 
190 1 Secretary: JoMph J. Sullivan. ISM. 
139 N. Clark St.. ChicaBO, IB. 
190 2 Secretary: C C Mitehdl, IIO S. 
"""• Dearborn St. Box S. Chieaeo, lU. 
190 3 Secretary: Francis P. Burke, 904 
Trust Co. Bide., Milwaukee. Wis. Word from England is that Robert Sweeny has recently won an impor­tant amateur golf tournament with the remarkable final score of 69- 68­137. 
190 4 Secretary: Bobert Proctor, Honser 
* " Bide.. Elkhart Indiana. Eight Rev. Msgr. Maurice F. Grif­fin, pastor of St. Philomena's Church in Cleveland, explained to the state convention of the Knights of Colum­bus last Spring the efforts of Ohio Catholics to obtain state aid for the Catholic schools as well as the rea­sons for the defeat of the bills to­ward this end. The son of William N. Bosler. Louisville, is a new student at the University this Fall. The elder Mr. 
Bosler is sales manager of the Ken­tucky Rock Asphalt Co. 
ion s Secretary: Danid J. O'Connor, 10 S. 
*" ^ LaSalle St. Chtcaso, m. 
190 6 Secretary: Thomas A. Lilly, Stl-lS 
Paulsen Bide., Spokane, Wash. 
190 7 Seeretarr: Bev. Thomas E.' Bnrice. 
*"• as.a, Notre Ihane. Ind. 
Father Wendell Corcoran, CS.C. 
is the new pastor of St. Joseph's 
Church in South Bend, after three 
years of super success as founder 
and first pastor of the parish of 
Christ the King on the Niles road in 
Roseland. His successor in Roseland 
is another former Holy Cross mis­
sionary. Fathe r William Burke, 
CS.C., '13. 
* 
ign g Secretary: Frank X. Cull, Bolkley BuBdine. Clevdand, Ohio. In South Bend for a visit with his brother Jack, '12, Bernard Bannon, of Grafton, Pennsylvania, visited the campus with his three sons on Au­gust 7. 
190 9 Secretary: E. P. <3eai7, Notre Dame, 
Indiana. 
igi O Secretary: Ber. M. U Horiarty, 1900 
•"V*" Endid Ave.. Qevdand. Ohio. 
lOI I Secretary: Fred Steers. 1866 First 

National Bank Bide., Chieaso, HI. Ed Story, Elk City, Oklahoma, is manager of the Story Hotel there and a notable figure in that part of the country as president of the Okla­homa - Kansas Hotel Greeters of America and secretary of the South­west Oklahoma Hotel Association. Serving overseas in the World War as a first lieutenant, Ed is a leading member of the American Legion, as well as an honorary life member of the Elks and a charter member of the Rotary dub. He is in constant demand as a baritone soloist on mus­ical occasions. 
Father William A. Carey, CS.C, is back at the University after sev­eral months' absence convalescing from a serious illness. 
101 2 Secretary: B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth 
St, Pittsborsfa. Pa. Walter Duncan's eldest son, Ed­ward, has just left for Innsbruch, Austria, where for the next several years he will study for the priesthood as a student of the diocese of Peoria, Illinois. The second son, Walter, is at present a senior at Notre Dame. 
101 3 Secretary: James J. Devitt, 921 En-
Bineeis' Bids., Cleveland, Ohio. Father John C Kelley, CS.C , spent the Summer as assistant in the Holy Family parish in New Rochelle, New York. 
191 4 Secretary: Frank H. Hayes, 406 
Bank of America Bids:., Anaheim, GaL 

* igi S Secretary: James E. Sanford, 1524 
*^*'' FarweD Ave., ChlcaEo, DI. 

George Shuster resigned as man­aging editor of Commonweal in the early Summer to spend a year in Europe "to prosecute special research under the Columbia University Coun­
October. 1937 
cil for Besearch in the Social Sci­ences." 
JQIg Seeretair: TimothT P. Galvia, Fint 
TVost Bid?.. Hammond, lad. 

Rutsell Downey is president of the South Bend Board of Education fol­lowing a reorganization meeting of the board in August. 
1017 Seeretanr: Edward J. HcOaker, 104 
S. Union St, Elgin. IIL 

^QIA Secretary: John A. Lemmer. 1110— 
8th Ave., S., Escanaba, Mich. This news via Sec Lemmer; "Ed­ward Lindemann has transferred his 
office with the Green River Chair 
Company from Livermore, Kentucky, 
to Owensboro, Kentucky." John was 
on the campus on July 26 en route 
to Ann Arbor, Michigan. 
* 

1Q1Q Secretary: Clarence Bader, 650 Fierce Street, Gary, Indiana. 
1920 Secretary: Leo B. Ward, lOlZBIacIc *"*" ' Bids., Lo3 AnBdes, Calif. 
According to latest available dope Slip Madigan is still the football coach at St. Mary's College, Califor­nia, despite the financial reverses which the college has encountered. 
1921 Secretary: Dan W. Daffy. 1600 Ter­
minal Tower, Cleveland, Ohio. 

Harry Drtggs, South Bend, with his wife and young son, experienced an automobile accident in Pennsyl­vania in August, but, despite a wrecked car, they all came out with comparatively minor injuries. 
1Q22 Secretary: Gerald Ashe. BoflaJo Ath­
^'^ letic Club, Buffalo. New Yorlc. 
Joe Sullivan, Boston, visited the campus with his family in July. 
Professor Pat Manion is out in front among those prominently listed by the newspapers as possible nom­inees for the Indiana senatorship at the next election. The former Alum­ni Association president is Indiana director of the National Emergency Council. 
Jim Shaw, of Des Moines, Iowa, and his brother Buck, head coach at Santa Clara College , California, showed their wives the campus for an all-too-brief spell on August 7. 
Here's the Kid of kids again: 

Dr. John Mohardt has offices at 30 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago. John is on the staffs of Mercy and Passavant Hospitals, and is also on the faculty of Northwestern Medical College. 
Fan mail for Ben Suien should reach him when mailed in care of the Phoenix Dye Co., Chicago, or to Gen­eral Delivery, Birmingham, Alabama. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
As far as we know, Ben has no busi­
ness interests in the southern city. 
Mike Seyfrit was re-elected prose­cuting attorney of Macoupin County, Illinois. It is almost unbelievable but true, nevertheless, that Mike has a record of irinning 197 cases out of 200 cases tried in his last term of office. 
Prominently associated with Cuneo Press, Chicago, is that grand old war horse—Harold McKee. 
Brother Aquinas (Ed Gottry to you birds) is studying for the priesthood in the Dominican Order House of Studies at River Forest, HI. Brother Ed. expects to be ordained in two years. 
Who said Jim Murtugh.^ Jim is assistant manager of the Continental-Illinois Bank Building, Chicago. As you may suspect, Jim is still crazy over horses. There is nothing much we can do about it. 
George Henneghan, who has been 

with the Indiana state highway de­partment for the past four years, is now with Charles W. Cole, civil engi­neer, in South Bend. George is working on some large sewage dis­posal projects in Michigan and In­diana. 
Tom (Sarge) Owens, formerly of Western Electric, Chicago, is in the asbestos roofing business in South Bend, with Bill Steinmetz. 
Van Wert, Ohio, took Father Bob Gallagher away from Toledo. At Commencement in June, Father Bob said Mass for Chuck Foley and other deceased members of our class. 
Doctor Tom Keefe recently moved from Earl Park, Indiana, to Logans­port in the same state. 
1923 ^""' ^- Castner, 17 Cornell Road. 
West Hartford, Conn. 

Jim Bell, of East Chicago, Indiana, was a campus visitor on September 10. 
Lyie Miller, Vincennes, Indiana, reports a visit in Michigan City with Mark Storen, '22, the prosecuting at­torney of La Porte County, and Bob Glasscott, '24. 
The big meter man, Paul Castner, reports as follows: 
I first want to advise the Class of '23 that my address is now 17 Cor­nell Road, West Hartford, Connecti­cut. I am the vice-president and gen­eral manager of the Standard Meter Corporation. Our business is park­ing meters. 
I haven't sent in a report since Commencement so \dll bring my notes somewhat up to date by report­ing that Father John Cavanaugh, Frank Wallace and myself had our annual golf game. Most of the reg­ulars were back, and the outstanding note was that John Rohrbach ap­
23 

peared on the scene with a very attractive and staidy youngster— marking the first official appearance of the second generation of the Class of '23 on the campus. Henry Barn-hart, Red Shea and other bachelors of the class, take note. 
Speaking of Henry Bamhart, I had the pleasure of running into him on a train going out of New York. Al­though he hasn't come near N.D. for a number of years, though living in Lima, Ohio, I condescended to talk to him. I have heard rumors from time to time that he was to desert the bachelor dass, and he is taking a keen interest in the fair sex. So who knows? he may tumble yet. Henry, as you know, is general sales manager of the Shovel Division of the Lima Locomotive Works. Their line is the heavy excavation steam shovel and needless to say our class­mate is doing an excellent job. 
I also had the pleasure of spending a day with Red Shea in Dayton, where he still holds forth as one of the coming legal lights of that city. 
Coming out of St. Paul, Minne­sota, recently I met Linns Glotxbach, who matriculated at Notre Dame from the fair city of Sleepy Eye, Minnesota, but who now has a very successful law practice in New tllm, Minnesota. I must compliment his good taste and progression, for my mother was bom in Sleepy Eye and later moved to New TJlm. Maybe one of these days he too may end up in St. Paul. Incidentally, he has al­ready extended his talents in much wider fields, as he is attached to Harry Hopkins' staff in Washington, 
D.C. He is the only attorney on Hop­kins' official staff, and he spends some time each month in Washington. 
I saw Mickey Kane in Springfield, Massachusetts last week. He is prac­ticing law there, has delved some into politics and is doing very well. I have seen considerable of Mickey since coming to this part of the conn-try. His tips on the ponies and the dogs are not so hot. 
John Byrne is still with the Phoe­nix Brewery in Buffalo, New York. Nelson Callahan is in Cleveland, and John Chapla is with the Paine Web­ber & Company of the same city; he is another of the bachelors. 
Francis X. Disney is in Albany, New York. Clifford Doll is in Louis­ville, Kentucky, the head of a large family and last reports were that he has about eight chUdren. Dick Falvey still likes the country around Wina­mac, Indiana, so much so, in fact, that he doesn't take the short trip to Commencement. 
Pat Granfield is doing very well in law in Springfield, Massachusetts. I have seen Peaches Granfield and Jack a number of times but haven't been fortunate to see Paddy. Jimmy Young; has joined Roger Kiley in Chi­
cago's Board of Aldermen. Roger is assistant finance director. Bob McGIynn is still in East St. Louis. Joe Nyikos is building up a great law practice in South Bend, and he and Mrs. Njakos and their two charming daughter's visited the Castners this Summer. 
Bill Voss is still running the lead­ing meat market and grocery store in Har\'ey, Illinois, and has time on the side to be the leading spirit in the K. of C. and Elks in Han'ey. Elmer Holmberg has been in the Or­ient, and I hope he doesn't run into any of that cross fire between the Japs and the Chinese. I'll speak for the class, Elicer, and say, much as we love you, we don't think the class should be sent over there to bring you out, though we sincerely hope that the war won't hurt your busi­ness future. 
IQ2 4 Secretary: J. P. Hayes. Wm. F. Ped­
* rick £ Co.. EraD. State Bid e N.Y.C. 
Law notes: Ray Brady is general counsel for the Salt Lake Real Estate Board, 321 Ness Building, and Far­rell Johnston has opened an office in 630 Gas Electric Building, Dayton, Ohio. 
192 5 Secretari-: John P. Hurley. 20S.i Brookdale Road. Toledo, Ohio. 
You'll note the change of class sec­retaries. For some time John W. Scallan has been so tied up with his duties in the Pullman set-up that both time and coirespondence have been at a premium. In addition, in the presence of witnesses including the Editor, said Scallan took unto himself Mrs. Scallan, through the medium of the Church and His Ex­cellency, Bishop B. J. Shell. At Scal­lan's request, therefore, for obvious reasons accepted, John P. Hurley, Toledo furniture tj-coon and some­time traveler, with a nose for news that Doctor Cooney's classes would have welcomed, has assumed the '25 Man's Burden. Make is easy for him and hard for the editor by telling him everj'thing. 
Karl Miller, who has been in the Hearst organization in the East for a number of years, now s^vells the '25 ranks on the campus, assisting Tom Barry, publicitj' director of the Universit}'. Elmer Layden, Bill Cer­ney. Father Toni McAvoy, Pasquale Pirchio (who just succeeded Pro­feuor Ackermann as head of the Mechanical Drawing department), 
John Whitman, Father John P. Lynch 
(just ordained this Summer), Bill Sheehan (whose academic hangover brought him into the twilight of '25, and who now has the candy store on the campus—"Lemonade, Goodyears and Fours" is the new slogan), and the Alumni Secretary, are among those of the Class still chipping gold off the old dome. 
The ordination of the Rev. John P. 
Lynch, C.S.C., now assistant prefect of religion at the University, was an event of Class note on June 24. Sep­arating the newly ordained Father from the many friends and relatives present, and holding an inner circle meeting of a more Class conscious nature were George B. Sheehe, South Bend's boon to the deaf, Joseph A. Hogan, South Bend barrister, Gerald Holland, Detroit News, the veteran 
Father Tom McAvoy, whose religion 
came easier than Father Lynch's, John P. Traynor, New York insur­ance commissioner, who had to see to believe, Gil Schaefer, Detroit auto dealer, where that term means some­thing, Larry Keefe, '26, whom only stern fact makes us identify as the Lily - Tulip cup king, Daniel J. O'Neill, soft-spoken ti-ouble-shooter of the A.T. and T., (the latter t^vo, with Ti-aynor, coming from New York for the occasion), the Alumni Secretary (enjojing about the only semblance of Class reunion, as Com­mencement doesn't permit much of the same), and numerous visitors during the several hours so observed, said visitors hereinafter designated as X. 
Brother Agatho, C.S.C., after a very successful period as superior of Dujarie, has left the campus to take over the responsibilities of Cathedral High in Indianapolis. 
Rabey Funk was a welcome office visitor during the Summer. Rabey made two trips from Amarillo, Tex­as, to South Bend to deliver and re­cover his family, summering locally. 
Had a nice letter from John Elliott this Summer. John is manager of of the the LaCrosse, Wisconsin, hos­telries, but escaped a \'isitation in spite of a generous iniitation. Any of you cash customers now, on your waj' to the Minnesota game for in­stance, stop at the Stoddard. 
Cornelius Hagerty has announced the opening of his office for the prac­tice of medicine at 800 West 78th Street, Chicago. 

The men of '25 are pulling partic­ularly for the quick and complete recoverj' of Nobe Kizer who was forced to take a leave of absence from the head coach job at Purdue because of a kidney ailment. Taking Nobe's place temporarily as head coach is the able Mai Elward, '16, the first assistant. Harry Stuhldre­her carried on in Nobe's place as a teacher at the Butler University coaching school in August. 
Bill Hurley is a special agent, not for the Department of Justice, but for the Equitable Life Assurance Society in Saginaw, Michigan. He ordered some tickets for the Army game and said that he may be down for the Pitt game. 
Cliff Potts, South Bend, has been put forth as a likely candidate in 1938 for the Republican nomination for congressman, Cliff is at present county attorney, 
John Bartley, now residing on Demarest Road, Closter, New Jersey, is out scaring his newly-married pal Scallan with the claim that he (Bart­ley) has "the finest pair of twins that ever came down the pike." Who wants to enter the competition? 
Spotlight! We give you the new sec: 
I am not so sure that I want to thank you for the job of class secre­tary but at any rate, I will accept on one condition that the term of office is short. 
To begin with now that Jack Scal­lan is married, I think the boys of '25 should search out the most eli­gible bachelor of our class. That should bring in some answers from the far comers. Just how many are left after 12 years? We might run a list for a few months. 

Bill Hurley — Bill, in Saginaw, Michigan, has managed to stay single. Bud Barr is the only other '25 man that I can think of who is not both­ered about the cold weather coming on and new Fall clothes for the bet­ter half. Bud is still suying grain for the farmers in Chalmers, Indiana. [Bad start, Huriey! '26 is still glad to accept Barr—Managing Editor.] 
Anse Miller and Ray Tillman were the first to get manned. Ray is an officer in the Industrial Steel Cast­ings. He lives only a few doors fi-om me. Ray has three fine kiddies. Bill Cerney held the record for the num­ber of children at our five-year re­union with four youngsters, and we are wondering if he's still tops! How about it. Bill? Paul Romweber is still covering Atlantic City and Phil­adelphia for the American Furniture Company, but right now he's going through the "growing pains" of building a new house down in Bates-ville, so it looks like the East will see less and less of him as the years go by. John Hillenbrand just finished building a new home so it looks like people are buying bigger and better caskets from the Batesville Casket Company. 
Walter Haecker paid the Toledo boys a -insit this Spring. Walter had just been appointed district sales manager of the B. F. Goodrich Rub­ber Company for the Pittsburgh dis­trict. "Butch has been with Good­rich for 10 years. 
Ben Kesting is still head man in the County Engineer's office here in Toledo. Ray Cunningham takes an orchid for being the longest with one company. When Jack Scallan, as editor of the '24 Dome, asked Ray to sell cap and gown pictures for Russell neither one of them thought it would be a lifetime job. Ray had a year's jump on us. He had 10 op­erators working for him in Miami last winter, so it's the little things in life that shape our destiny. 
Moral—Send in any scraps of news about yourself or your classmates and we will change the destiny and amount of space used up by the class of '25, Don't wait until you get in the proper mood, just jot it down on any scrap of paper and Jim and I'll do the rest. We, of the class of '25, have plenty of space coming to us. 
1926 Secretary: Dr. Gerald W. Hayes. 86 Hawthorne Ave., East Oransre, N.J. Postmaster Wade Sullivan, out in Algona, Iowa, was through early ^vith his order of eight tickets for the Minnesota game. (Reckon Wade ex­pects to take along just about every able-bodied citizen in -41gona, what with that mess of tickets!) 
Wade said that Joe Kelly, Jr., e.x. '35, of Algona, had been very seri­ously ill with a kidney ailment, but was slowly recovering. Joe attended Whittier College in California last year. Joe's brother, Omer, who spent a year, at Notre Dame, is now first string center on the Creighton team. 
The mother of Ed Mullm, '27, Fonda, Iowa, died in July, Wade said. Ed is a sales tax adjuster for the state of Iowa. Further Sullivan dope is that Ed Kelly, ex. '21, attorney in Emmetsburg, Iowa, is the father of a second son bom in May. 
Toai Sheridan and the Managing Editor had a brief session in the Caf on the campus in mid-September, but the Brooklyn telephone man didn't show up for a further conference, as per plans. Tom was under the guid­ance of the Bell Tel magnate of South Bend, Joe Quinlan. Maybe that explains the disappearance. 
Sheridan had seen Charlie Mason in Indianapolis. He reported also that Ed Hargan had passed the New York bar and was about to take off on a legal career. 
The New Jersey Dan O'Neill, '2G, visited the campus on August 25. No dope reported! 
Lew Murphy is the new com­mander of South Bend's largest Le­gion post. 
1927 Secretaries: Joseph M. Boland, Ath­letic OfTice Notre Dame. Ind.: Ed­mund DeCIeni. 7120 So. Park Ave.. Chicaso. 
Clayt Leroux, basking in the bliss of his recent perpetration of matri­mony, is planning on seeing the Army game, according to his mid-August letter. Also, he expects to come campusward for the Pitt game. 
Probate judge Malcolm HatBeld, of St. Joseph, Michigan, has been ap­pointed to the newly-formed Delin­quency Council of Michigan and is a member of its executive committee. 
Louis Conroy, the former basket­ball dazzler, has been appointed man­ager of the Pontiac, Michigan, branch of the Michigan Bell Telephone Com­pany. Lou started with the Michi­gan Bell two years after he was grad­uated. He went to Pontiac as direc­tor of athletics at St. Frederick High School where he established iWnning records which still stand. For one season he was head coach of basket­ball at University of Detroit. 
Since establishing his connection \vith Michigan Bell, Lou worked in Flint and Saginaw, Michigan, before returning to the managerial post in Pontiac. 
Lou married one of his pupils from 
St. Frederick. 
Extra! Exti-a! Boland signs with ALUMNUS. Assistant Coach agrees to be secretary for class of '27. Extra! Extra! Here it is: 
This pillar of truth and guiding light for the men of '27 has been variously regarded by those same men of late years, if we are to judge from the plentiful and varied com­ment from those same men at the Commencement get - together last Spring, It must be distincly under­stood that the low "politicking" and trafficking in votes, not to mention the log-rolling tactics adopted to in­sure something to read in this flam­ing monthly message, had nothing to do with this present effort. Rather, the fact that they did come, meet, eat and—talk, at Commencement, de­serves mention — and the activity among them for more news about their classmates in the ALUMNOS de­serves some action . . . feeble though it be. 
Continued appearance of any news flashes in this comer depends not upon the chap who may happen to put letter-after-letter together on the typewriter, but upon those same members of the class who want news. If it's news they want, let them send it to us—from all the reaches of the counti-y and from all the strange places that men of '27 have found in the last ten years—then it can ap­pear here: a simple formula, isn't it? With the blame for non-appearance of reading matter in this space being placed on the readers' shoulders, then from month to month, something might appear. 
Dan Moore, who was unable to be present at the re-union due to the death of his father last Spring, is still in Chicago, enlivening commerce there and 724 South Oak Park Ave­nue in the evenings, as he takes care of his growing family. 
Tom Byrne took occasion on Labor Day to pen a news letter from Cleve­land, letting the world and all know that Frank Andrew* is working for Mr. Whiskers on a flood control proj­ect in the Ohio River Valley; that Father Jim Moran visited Cleveland recently for the National Student Missions Crusade which was held in the Forest City during July. (Won­wer is Jim still has the same com­plexion?) 
Ed Orlikowski is helping the Coun­ty Recorder keep all the records straight in the County Court House, Cleveland: (nice to know one politi­cian likes straight records!); Jack Reidy now administers all personnel matters for the A. and P. Tea Co. in northern Ohio, and is at present get­ting straightened away in a new home in Beach Cliffe—^which sounds pretty much like Walsh Hall used to in the old days! 
Johnn y Butler (remember that good-looking bird in the Glee Club?) is helping keep the County Prosecu­tor in Cleveland up to date with a winning record. (These County Pros­ecutors must be like football coach­es!) John OrisGoll is stiU in Chicago, busily engaged with his rapidly grow­ing family, as Clayton Leroux is up in the clouds with his recent bride— the knot having been tied by the aforementioned Father Jim Moran, in the Log Chapel. And Tom ends by saying that he camped with Neil Galone in Pittsburgh, recently: the two of them Bell Telephone employ­es, they have been keeping you and you and you talking to each other with their efficiency. 
Naturally, the quiet, shy Tom Byrne would almost fail to mention that he passed cigars around the Bell System offices in Ohio recently when Tom, Jr,, arrived. 
Hugh McCaflFery, now the flying Lieutenant, is stationed at Langley Field, in Virginia, where, with his beauteous wife and two children, he is booming around keeping up the prestige of the U. S. Air Force— dropped into Commencement non­chalantly three and one-half hours after leaving Langley, in a super-super job. Vince McNally is back­field coach for the first Clipper Smith, at Villanova, and is setting out to keep the wolf from Henry Ford's door by selling Fords, in addition to the coaching assignment. He's doing a swell job of both. Joe Maxwell, th Philadelphia Phlash, is engaged in outtalldng claimants against Traveler Insurance Co.—he's in their claims department in Philadelphia, what time he isn't spending in Easton, Pennsylvania, where he's rated No. 1 man for a nearly-here nuptial Mass. 
Joe Benda, who started with '27, ended with '28 and wonders which 
26 The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1937 
class wants him, is now end coach at Notre Dame, having come out of the North Woods of Minnesota with a three-foot beard, a new wife, baby girl — Judith Ann — and a winning record as coach at St. John's Col­lege, CoUegeville, Minnesota. He's fitting into the Notre Dame picture perfectly, and some of you may meet him as he flits about the country on scouting assignments for the Layden-
Harry O'Boyle expects to Counter­balance McNally and Ford, as he has signed on with Chevrolet to inject new life into the company—the Iowa Express looks as trim as ever he did in his fullbacking days under the Dome. 
Herb Jones hasn't any more tickets for Minnesota and Anny, so don't pull that "old pal" act on him for those games. -4s this is written, it might work for Pittsburgh, if pulled fast; Northwestern, just as fast; and may not be needed for others—but you might work it nevertheless. 
Jerry LeStrange is the ghost of the campus — I'm forever getting notes from him, saying he was just here—but missing him each time . . . which is my bad luck for missing a swell chap. 
Eugene Young—that man of iron, is skillfully ministering to physical needs of the Fighting Irish football­ers, and is ever-ready with an aspirin for the coaching staff after the bad days of scrimmage. 
Steve Ronay, Frank Moran, and Bill Coyne are now addressed as "Professor" each time they're met on the campus, as they continue instill­ing knowledge into the present men of Notre Dame. Father Harry Ryan is taking care of the folks at Iowa City, and taking his exercise in that same strenuous fashion he set at N.D., in the University of Iowa Field House. Hugh Campbell is Waiting for the Army game and the special train out of Hazleton between-times as he makes bricks to build the fu­ture Hazelton. Hughey always pre­dicted it would be a cold day when he got married—^it was: some 20 be­low! 
Steve Bielli—^remember the "whis­perer"?—^is furm'shing food and stuff to the natives of Arizona, headquar­quartering in Phoenix. And BoUnd has to get back to those guards and tackles, the crying room, and night­mares and sleepless nights as he visu­alizes the "Backs Marching By"— right over his own linemen! 
If you want the news in this col­umn, send in what you've got—^Re­member the "Wake" in the Chi Trib ? —this column is conducted by J. M. Boland. Help! Help!! 
1928 Secretary: Louis F. Buckley, Hiddle­ton, Wisconsin. 
The class secretary, as you will note, is seeking the higher things in Wisconsin; he is away for a year of graduate study in Madison, after which he will be within speaking dis­tance of his doctor's degree in eco­nomics. Before he left the campus, the sec. appointed Jack Mullen to be th '28 guest conductor for the No­vember ALU5I^^JS. After his wan­derings across the nation the former Scholastic ed. should be able to pro­duce some dazzling news, Buck felt. So—it's all yours, Mullen! October 20 is the deadline. There will be other guest conductors later. Mul­len's latest address is: Benton & Bowles, 444 Madison Avenue, New York City. 
Buck wrote some dope before he left. Here it is: 
I ran across a very good article by Vince Ducey in the June issue of the Midwestern Banker on "Putting Ex­cess Cash to Work." Vince is mana­ger of the bank service department of Nichols, Terry & Dickinson, Inc., Chicago. 
Last June, after the ordination ceremonies, a few of the old gang got together at a dinner at the class secretary's house in honor of Father 
Andy Mulreany, CS. C AI Mulreany, Fred Wagner, Willard Wagner and Bill Furey were present. 
Frank Donovan finished his WOrk at Harvard in June and, after spend­ing the Summer in Toronto, Canada, with the Massey Harris Company, he located with that company in Racine, Wisconsin, in September. 
Vince Carney wrote from Rochelle, Illinois, concerning a six-weeks visit that he made to Mexico in the Spring visiting Connie Ochoa at his planta­tion. Connie expects to visit Notre Dame during the football season this year. Vince and Connie listened in on the national hookup in Mexico City on Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Vince met Jorge Palomino on the street in Mexico City. Jorge is living there now at 19 Mame, and is in the interior decorating business. He is most anxious to contact H«rley Mc-Devitt, Fred Davis, Joe O'Neill and Hadrian Manske. Vince has been having a great time giving illustrated lectures since his return. 
John Forge is now in Des Moines, Iowa, with Goodyear Tire. 
Leo Mclntyre cards from Atlantic City greeted the Armstrong* and Dooley* this Summer. 
John Frederick has opened law offices in the Hackley Union National Bank Building, Muskegon, Michigan, and Henry Hasley has opened his own law offices in Fort Wayne, In­diana, in the Peoples Trust Building. Ed Hagerty has new law offices in the Edison Building, Toledo. 

Ed McCormack is with Lord & Thomas in Chicago doing radio plugs for Amos 'n' Andy and he will short­ly have a series of advertising comic strips for Pepsodent in the Sunday funnies. Ed says that Hal Hudson is in Hollywood doing a radio script based on the "Scattergood Baines" stories. 
Jim Kull is with the General Elec­tric Supply Corporation in Detroit, after an illness last Winter which necessitated his giving up his pre­vious job. 
Here's some dope from Broker Mahon up in St. Paul: 
See quite a few of the ex-NDers around these parts. See Tom Traub­er off and on. Denny Daley is room­ing next to me at the K. C. Club; see Ed, '29, and John Fahey several times a week; saw Danny Coughlin, '22, at a K. C. initiation at Spring­field recently and have lunch almost every noon with Jim Coughlin, who is with a printing establishment here. He prints the local K. C. paper of which I am the poor and humble ed­itor. Seems like old times to be eat­ing with Jim—^we used to wait on the head table together back in the old refectory. 
Saw John Grams, '33, in Winona, a couple days ago. Am thinking seri­ously of going up into Canada and meet Ted Twomey, '30, at Devil's Cascade into Rainey Lake. He is up at his camp now, and I can feel that he is using mental telepathy in an effort to lure me up there with my pack-sack and rod and reel so we can go after that mammoth that almost broke my pole up there two years ago. 
1929 S«:^taTy: Joseph F. HcNaman, 231 
'WiscQsin Stnet. Indianapolis. Ind. 

There was a most welcome note and remittance this Summer from Ross Harrington who is an attorney in Richmond, Indiana. 
Professor Don Plunkett spent the Summer in study at the University of Illinois, and Professor Paul Bar­tholomew was at the University of Kentucky. 
Cap Grathwohl, one of the stellar golfers of these parts, won the Plym Park title in Niles in a recent tour­nament. 
John V. Hinkel wrote a long letter soon after returning to the New York Times from a two-weeks' stay at Camp Dix as a reserve first lieutenant 
October, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
attached to the 18th Infantry, a reg­ular Army regiment. At the camp, John met Captain William J. McKier­nan. Unit instructor of the 219th Observation Squadron,, New Jersey National Guard. Bill was at Notre Dame until 1915, leaving to go to the Mexican border with the Army. He served in France with the Air Corps and is a crack pilot. He expected to leave soon for San Diego, California, to be an aircraft inspector at a fac­tory. 
With Art Denchfield and Lou Thornton, John expects to leave in October for an extensive trip through Mexico, winding up with the Minne­sota game in Minneapolis and the Pitt game on the campus. The trio is planning to visit Connie Ochoa, among others, in Mexico. 
Art is assistant manager of the Singer Sewing Machine Co. in Brazil, with headquarters in Sao Paulo, and Lou is with the Guaranty Trust Company in New York. 
John said that Tom Langtry, '30, his former roommate, is with the Aetna insurance outfit and was rated by the company last year as one of the 100 leading Aetna agents. 
1930 Secretary: Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 
Kenneth St., New KensinEton. Pa. 

Bemie Conroy starts off another fine year as follows: 
Hugh Gallagher, of Aspinwall, Pennsylvania, is engaged to Evange­line McDonald. Hughie has been working for the state the past year. 
Joe Mooney is doing well as sales manager for Pennsylvania for the Ke Lox Manufacturing Company. 
Ray ToMen has been moving ahead in the Blaw-Knox Steel Company. 
I understand that Mac Trombley is circuit court commissioner in De­troit. 
Don Parent is a justice of the peace in Macon County, Michigan. 
Tom Donovan is reported to have been connected with the Ford Hos­pital in Detroit. 
John Voss has taken a trip to Cali­fornia for the Winter. 
Dr. Dick O'Toole has opened a new office at 5229 Butler Street, Pitts­burgh, 
Ed Slick, Jr. is lea\'ing us for Marion, Indiana. 
George Heineman is the proud father of a daughter, Margaret Mary, bom in May. 
Jim Favret, New Orleans, made his first visit to the campus since grad­uation, on July 26. 

Father John James Walsh cele­brated his first solemn Mass in St. Ambrose Cathedral, Des Moines, Iowa, on August 15, following his ordination in Rome on March 19. 
Jack Elder is back in Chicago as athletic director of the C.Y.O. after a course in social work at the Catho­lic University, Washington, D.C. 
Jerry Parker, a recent campus vis­itor, was in Norway this Summer and visited the birthplace of Knute Rock­ne in Voss. 
Tom Keegan, the Rockford, Illi­nois, bachelor, also had a trip to Europe this Summer. Tom works in Chicago but receives his alumni mail in nearby Rockford. 
John Rocap is grand knight of the Indianapolis Knights of Columbus. 
Pat McLaughlin, of St. Louis, spent June and July in the hospital in Quincy, Illinois, after a serious auto smash-up. At last reports, he was close to complete recovery but was still giving thanks for a miraculous escape from death. Pat reported that Joe Keefe had moved from Winter Haven to Bradenton, in Florida. 
1931 Secretary: John BerEan. S28 E. Col­
fax Ave.. Smith Bend, Ind. 

Your good pal Bergan is starting another year with a large bang. He says: 
There has been very little news concerning members of the class dur­ing the past Summer. It has been suggested that more letters be writ­ten to the secretary with class news so that it can be relayed on to others who are interested in your locale and accomplishments. 
Frank McGreal was signally hon­ored by the Calumet council Knights of Columbus when they elected him their grand knight. This council has an enrollment of 1800 members and is one of the largest memberships in the order. Sympathy of the class is extended to Larry Zell on the death of his father in Little Rock, Ark., this Summer. Larry is on the gen­eral staff of Johns Hopkins hospital in Baltimore. 
Frank Kersjes was appointed foot­ball coach at Central State Teachers College at Mount Pleasant, Michigan, and is now in the throes of a busy season. John Weibler has seeming­ly given up newspaper work for a cleaner business; he is now district sales manager for Little Dutch cleanser and often gets into South Bend. The natives of Rome, Georgia, are booming their native son Charlie Powers for a part opposite Tallulah Bankhead in, "Gone With tiie Wind." But Charlie has tamed down all of­fers and states that he is still very happy with the Georgia Bighnay Commission and will continae to do their engineering work. 
Loud vibrations were heard in the vicinity of St. Augustine, Florida, but it was only Fred Raliaim lament­ing the lack of material for his high school football team. Fred is begin­ning his third year as athletic direc­tor and coach. Tom Conley was in South Bend for golf and business this Summer and reports John Car­roll will have one of its best teams this year. His coaching staff has been augmented by Gomer Jones, All-American center of Ohio State. 
Among the visitors in South Bend this past Summer were the Tom Mon­ahans returning from a 3,000-mile honeymoon. They did not tarry long, as Mrs. Monahan seemed anx­ious to try out her new pie pans, and Tom wanted to see if there were any chinch bugs in the Areola broomcom. They are holding open house for any members of the class who are in their vicinity for the Blinois game. 
Frank Henneberger is now located in Princeton, Indiana, and is in the coal and ice business. Among the Summer's benedicts were: Dick Baker, who was married in Lima, Ohio, and Joe Boyland in Grand Rapids. Dick is professor of philos­ophy at Nazareth college, Kalama­zoo, and Joe is in the casualty busi­ness in Grand Rapids. Frand Cari­deo spent the Summer in Mississippi and begins his third year as assistant football coach at Mississippi State. The Rev. Patrick Duffy, C.S.C. has now taken up his new duties as pas­tor of St. Xavier church in -A.ustin, Texas. 
Travel note: Any member of the class in the vicinity of New Orleans should certainly make it a point to make a trip on the Austin Boyle Sightseeing Tour, for Aust certainly • showed your correspondent a won­derful time late in August. He knows the city and the French quarter where he resides especially well. 
Pitt Game: There will be an in­formal gathering of the class in South Bend on the eve of this game, details will be found in the next 
.4LUMNXJS. 
Letters from or whereabouts of the following will be appreciated: Clay Adams, Glen Findley, Joe Hughes, Charlie Guerin, Jerry Mc-Keever, John Foley, Dick Connelly, Jerry Desmond, Bill Beminc and Jim Rorke. Then, of coarse, news from hosts of others would be most welcome by next month. 
Jim MnUaney, Aabnm, New York, 
stopped on the campus this Summer en route to New York. 
Fatber Bourke Motsett is novr as­istant pastor in the Visitation Par­ish, Kewanee, Illinois, having been transferred from Canton, Illinois. 
A note from Dan Williams says that he was graduated from the Cor­nell law school in June and just re­cently passed the New York bar exam. Dan modestly didn't say so, but it's a safe bet that he did all that with large honoi-s. 
Another note from the food haron of Lowell, Massachusetts, one John Saunders, says that he and General Motors Wingerter may be out to Hoosierdom for the Pitt game. 
1932 Secretary: Herbert Giorgio. 9005 
"""• 188th St, HoUis. L. L. New York. 
There are favorable Toledo reports from State Senator John Connolly. How are you, Senator? 
George Owens is with the Pitts­burgh Metallurgical Company in Ni­agara Falls, A^ew York. 
Tom Magee reports from the Rush Hospital , Alalvem, Pennsylvania: "Our Lady is still on my side. We're out in the open again and progress­ing nicely." 
Welcome word from Terry Dillon, Chicago, conveyed the thanks and best Irishes of Fred Snite, Jr., '33. Terry was, as all of you know, in China for a year with P\-ed and re­turned to Chicago with him on that perilous journey this Summer. 
Joe Degnan, '34, vnrote that Fred Fayette, who finished in law at Har­vard in 1936, is now with the Paige law firm in Burlington, Vermont. 
Agatfao Roger Brisgal, who \¥as at Notre Dame from '28 to '30, is now a Capuchin priest. He was ordained on June 15 in Washington, D.C., and celebrated his first solemn Mass in Dover, Ohio, on June 20. 
1933 Secretary: Donald Wise, 110 Pleasant 
*^ St., Joliet, H. 
Ed Stephan crashed through his year at Harvard law with a very high mark, according to news from the Eastern seaboard. 
Jim Gerend, Sheboygan, Wiscon­sin, and his brother Ray send excel­lent reports of the Summer dinner party of the nearby Milwaukee club. Jim had recently seen Dr. Jack Gary who is doing an interne stretch at the Milwaukee County Hospital. He also had seen Jack Meister, '36, who had driven to Sheboygan, from Newport, Kentuckj', where he is practicing law. 
Bob Johnston, of Harrisburg, Penn­sylvania, was at Notre Dame on July 8 en route home after a month in Tulsa. Bob had been in Cincinnati during the height of those iloods. 
Louie Chreist did a lot of topnotch tennis playing (as usual) this Sum­mer but, unfortunately, lost the South Bend city championship in the finals match. He had held the title in a previous year. 
Joe Kurth is reported as being in the sales department of statio n WJJD, Chicago. 
With his welcome dues, Phil Do-. herty sent word that he had been graduated from Harvard Law last June and that he was serving his clerkship for the New Jersey Bar. 
Jack Jaeger has changed his ad­dress in Milwaukee to 1404 West Wisconsin Avenue. Ed Graham, '34, is living there with him. 
2934 Secretary: James Moscow. 2320 N. 
Lawndale Ave., Chicasro, 111. 
Ralph Rogers recently sent word with his dues that he is still manag­ing a dairy farm in Arequipa, Peru, 
S.A. He had just before met Man­uel Villanueva, '23, who has a cattle ranch in the same section. 
Another recent finisher at Har­vard Law is Harry Rockett, who started work in a Boston law office in August, Harry's address is 50 Bowdoin Street, Dorchester, Massa­chusetts. He expects to see the Army game, together with his mother and father. 
Via Athletic Association Cahill, there is news from Bill O'Brien, Bridgeport, Connecticut. Bill is go­ing to the Army game and he says in part: "Al Feeney is coming up from the Milky Way Farms in Tennessee with his future wife to see the game with us. Elmer Harkabus, '33, and Ed Monaban %\ill be in the party, too. . . . I've become engaged at last— gonna take the final step in Septem­ber or October of next year. I am still doing estimating engineering at the Bridgeport Brass. Harky is with his father in a new, large bakery and cafeteria. Monahan is in the oiSce at Casco Products in town here. 
"Red Forest is now a salesman for Bassick here in town—makes occa­sional road trips to Pittsburgh and Cleveland. Frank McGee is still a junior bank examiner for the Fed­eral Reserve out of New York City, Butch Pivamik was married a short while ago to Betty Quinn — don't know what he's worMng at. Joe Regan is still in Washington, D.C. Jim Cole was married down there in June." 
Joe Clark, postmaster in Natrona, Pennsylvania, is editor and publisher of The Keystone Postmaster, organ of the Pennsylvania State Associa­tion of Postmasters. Joe was one of the active figures in the associa­tions' convention in Scranton in Au­gust. 
After much moving around since his graduation Bill Hockberger is stationed for at least a year, he thinks, in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, at 631 Park Drive, R.F.D. 3. He is with the development and research department of the Standard Oil of Louisiana and expects to see one of the games this Fall. 
Tim Moynihan is assistant coach at George Washington University in Washington, D.C. 
Johnny Banks continued his golf­ing exploits this Summer by winning the Knights of Columbus champion­ship of niinois in the Chicago tour­nament. 
Howard Flannery, after much jumping around vrith the Long Is­land Lighting Company, is now set­tled down for a spell in the Babylon office. 
Joe Degnan, the former Juggler maestro, has given up his newspaper job in Rutland, Vermont, to take one as publicity director, teacher and editor at St. Michael's College, Wi­nooski Park, Vermont. Joe will also do some outside writing. 
With his alumni dues Mel Meyers, Red Wood Falls, Minnesota, sent word thus: "I am still connected with the Redwood Falls Motor Co., Inc., one of the larger Ford dealers in this part of the state. Marty Dolan was recently appointed credit manager of the Minneapolis branch of the Uni­versal Credit Co. Don Mcintosh, '34, has been attending the University of Minnesota Law School. Bill Beckley, '34, is working out of Fargo with the Burroughs Adding Machine Co. I had a note from Gene Bliih a few months ago in which he said he was with some flour mill, the name of which I can't make out, in Denver." 
Francis Crego is, and has been for the past year and a half, with the Department of Development and Re­search, Phelps Dodge Corporation, Maspeth, L.I., New York. He is do­ing metallurgical work. His brother Lew, '35, he says, has just begun work as an accountant for the Amer­ican Brakeshoe Co. in New York City. 
Registrar Riordan sends a note showing that Art Sandusky is legal counsel for the Wyoming Unemploy­ment Compensation Commission in Casper, Wyoming, Jack O'Neil, with the General Motors Acceptance Cor­poration in St. Louis, sent the same dope after his vacation in Wyoming this Summer. Jack also sent his alumni dues. 

193 5 Secrctao" Franklyn C. Hochretter, Ritual psalms in the alley outside our 11 Brunswick Blvd.. Buffalo. N. Y. 
€ENTRALITY 
window at 3 a-m. (You missed the 
Bob Scott is with the Fargo, North Dakota, branch of the International Harvester Company and is head­quartering in Jamestown, at P.O. Box 1363. He had been in Lincoln, Ne­braska with the same company. Bob sent this dope with his dues. 
Jerry Molinari, also sending his dues, says he is with the National Youth Administration in New York but is looking forward to finishing his law school work in the Fall of 1938. 
Dope has it that the Corrigan twins, with two other boys from Mil­waukee, spent a month in Mexico this Summer. 
Via the dues-paying route also, Jordan Hargrove sends word that he is in the research department of a large New York advertising agency, Arthur Kudner. Sigmund Sluszka, Jordan says, is now with the Com­bustion Engineering Company, and Jim McDevitt is with the U.S. Rub­ber Company in Waterbury, Con­nnecticut. 
As pi-esident. Art Korzeneski pre­sided in July at a meeting of the Polish Students' and Alumni Associ­ation in Chicago. Two hundred del­egates representing 90 colleges and universities were present. 
John Annas, '35, of Detroit, has opened the Annas Heat and Cold Company, along with his brother Henry, in Pontiac, Michigan. The new venture is aflSliated with General Motors and sells Delco oil-burning, air-conditioning and air-cooling units. The new spot has been open about 30 days and reports rushing business. 
It was a close shave and you al­most didn't have your Hocbreiter tonic (guaranteed for man or beast) this month, but hei-e it is: 
It's been a very quiet Summer as far as class news is concerned and, though we were in Chicago all of 12 weeks, we ran into but one of our gang— and he was from New^ York City. 
During the three months we stayed at the Old Town Boys' Club on South Newberry (in the Ghetto). The di­rector of the club was Dan Culhane, '23. Dan took his master's in '25. Whenever there was a free hour, Dan provided many tall tales of the "yesteryear" at Notre Dame. 
Luke Kelly, who had been with the Vincentian Bureau in South Bend during the last year, came to the University of Chicago the first part of the Summer and shared our room at the club. Luke made the stay a cheerful one and helped us become "part of the environment." Neither Luke nor your scribe will forget a few of the nights when we listened to a mixture of Yiddish and Roman climax of the Summer, Kelly—^there was a triple shooting outside our window the night before I left.) 
Luke left the VSB on the first of September and is at the present time employed by the Department of Pub­lic Welfare of St. Joseph County. With him at that office are also Jack De Garmo, '36, and Vic Astone, '34. 
Sometime during August the re­nowned editor of Scrip during our final year—George Albert Lawton— called the house in Buffalo as he was checking out of the Statler. 
Then, also during August, Harry Dabol Gafney called while passing through. Upon learning that we were in Chicago he asked for Jack "Polly" Connors' address. (We hope you found Jack still at 44 Arkansas Gt.) 
Late in July came an announce­ment of the marriage of Eleonora Alma Crosh to Robert Campbell Fox. The wedding took place several weeks before—on Saturday, July 10. The church was not mentioned, but the city was Chicago. Bob is the prod­igy of the famous Fox DeLux Beer of that city. (Thanks for the an­nouncement—and awfully sorry that we never acknowledged your kind in­vitation to drop out to the brewery. Bob.) 
And now to acknowledge a letter of last May 18. It was from Carl Weber. (We had orders to keep the June whisperings down to a mini­mum, Carl.) We'll quote at length fi'om Carl's letter: 
"After working on about 100 tem­poraiy jobs I finally landed a perma­nent one in Chicago in the internal auditing department of Washburn Crosby Co. Have been there since January of this year. Haven't seen the famous 'Jack Armstrong' around the office yet but I imagine he'll turn up one of these days. 
"Now about some of the boys: Ray Keating had a sad blow around Christmas when he was called home from Texas by the death of his fa­ther. Last time I heard from Ray, he and his mother were living in Houston, Texas. 
"Phil Kirley, Kewanee, HI., got himself a job in a plumbing busi­ness office. He's head bookkeeper now and also washes out the bath tubs every Saturday night. His cou­sin Frank Kirley, ex. '35, is running a clothing store with his father in Kewanee. . . . 
"AI Rubly is still working for the WPA in Rockford, at least that's the last I heard of him. . . ." 
Thanks for your newsy letter, Carl. We did not mention more of the boys as they have already been reported along the same lines as your letter. We'd appreciate more dope. 
John Finn was the New Yorker we 
In the heart o( Chicago's business and social activities. A step from Chicago's world famous Michigan Boulevard; adjacent to Lincoln Pork; a short block from Lake Michigan and almost equally close to the heart of the so-called Loop. 
•
 450 guest rooms, each outside, spacious, beautifully equipped with bath and shower combination, servi­dor and circulating ice water. 

•
 Three colorful restaurants including a popular priced coffee shop, ten pri­vate dining rooms and ballrooms in­cluding our new Notre Dame Room. 


# Notre Dame alumni, student body and faculty can be definitely certoin that they will receive the ultimate in facilities, courtesy and service at rates surprisingfy moderate. 
# Make the Knickerbocker your headquarters when in Chicago. 
Allan G. Hunt, Manager 
CHICAGO'S 

.NICKERBOCKER 
The Notre Dame Alumnus October. 1937 
blistering heat these last three 
months, your secretary saw scarcely 
anyone. 
Bob Cavanaugh wrote in from Washington early in July to state that he is doing very well with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora­tion. Bob even says that business is picking up for him following a rise in the number of bank failures since the first of the year. Bob passes on the sad information that Curley Rea­gan lost his mother some time ago. The class, I know, joins me in ex­pressing our sympathy to "Sid" on his bereavement. Curley left law school, and was for a time working for the General Motors Acceptance Corporation. 
Prom the same source comes word that Louie Lange was planning to get married, and may have by this time joined the rapidly growing ranks of our married classmates. Let's hear from you, Louie. 
Doc Casper is at Penn Med School. Fred Flynn is at Harvard, while his brother John is still with the Treas­ury Department in London, accord­ing to Bob. Jack Britton is reported to have married, but the rumor can't be verified till someone volunteers a little more information. How about you. Jack? 
Joe Mansfield came through with a letter in July, written on the very unique stationery of station WJAR, Providence, Rhode Island. I was very glad to hear from you, Joe, as were Bud Goldman and Andy Hufnagel, both of whom thought you had got lost somewhere in the New England hills. Joe states that he had a variety of jobs including some announcing with a local station in Waterbury, Connecticut, before hooking on with WJAR. 
Beside bragging that the youngest Mansfield has none of the quiet re­serve of her male parent, Joe vol­unteers the information" that he has seen Jack Murphy, Notre Dame's gift to Yale, on one or two occasions. John Desmond, from Fall River, is working in the production depart­ment of the Delco plant at Rochester, New York, and doing quite well. Tom Murphy is with the Armour Company in Providence, probably setting new records in the sales department. How about a letter to break that air of mystery, Tom? 
From Paris, Illinois, Tommy Vicars, roommate of the fighting Louie Hansman, writes in to say that he is a travelling auditor for the state of Illinois, Division of Highways. Tommy states that he is moving on to Chicago and plans to see a good many of his '36 classmates while in the city. Thanks for the letter. Tommy, and don't be so long in writ­ing again. The pride of Pontiac, mentioned. John had just hit Chica­go and was trying to negotiate a deal with one of the local journals. He had been, if we recall correctly, with the American until it developed com­plications. 
A card from Quebec and a short letter from Proctor kept us posted on his Summer tours. As we told you last June, Tom was with Tauck Tours of New York and acted as "tour con­ductor" for the Gaspe trip and other trips. Tom is now day-dogging from Elkhart to finish his final year of law at Notre Dame. 

And what are we doing? Well, right now we're trjang to gain a little weight while "waiting" for a job. For the first time in his young life your scribe is facing the cold world and wondering what to do next. There are prospects here in Buffalo and also in Indiana where we await a call from the local DPW. During .A.ugust we took a state exam and as 
AMERICAN ACADEMY OF DRAMATIC ARTS 
; Founded in 1885 hy Franklin H, Sargent. The ^ first and foremost Institnlion for Dnmxtic Training in Actinc Directing, and Teachinc. 
Fall term begins October 26 
Far Cattdof addresz Secretary, Room ISO, 
CAI\NEGIE HALL, NEW YOllK 
/P^¥ 

Outstanding  Service  
Luxurious  Comfort  
DAVENPOR T  Moderate  Rates  

a result were certified for a position on the St. Joseph County case work staff. All we have to wait for now is to be hired. We don't know where the next month will find us but if you have any correspondence, and we certainly hope that you have after four months, address it to the Buf­falo branch of the column. That is to 11 Brunswick Boulevard, Buffalo, New York. 
Here is to a great year with the column. Let's show up the compe­tition we'll be getting from the classes that went before us and the two that now have followed our day. Johnny Moran and his '36 outfit will tiy to beat us out—but let's fool him and keep our status. It's up to the gang—we'll do our part to make the '35 chatter the best in the ALUMNUS. 
14^ R •Tohn Moran. 61 E. 95th St.. Apt. i,
xj/ow jj^^ y^^j^ j^jy_ 
Managing Ed's note: It breaks my heart to have to admit it, but Moran is doing a grand secretarial job for j-ou. He tees off this way: 
News of the members of the class of 1936 is not so plentiful for this month's ALUJINUS. Save for a few unfortunates, who, like myself, were unable to escape from New York's 

BLACKHAWK HOTELS 
Conveniently located in business and 
amusement centers. Hotels of surpas­
sing hospitality, where your guests may 
enjoy complete relaxation in quiet 
rooms, and delicious foods, served in 
air cooled restaurants. Vou can recom­
mend any of the six Blackhawk Hotels 
with confidence. 
BLHCKHnUUK HOTELS 
REUNION 
in New York 
T^ROM all over these United States, many business associations, fraternal organizations, collegiate groups gather every week at Hotel McAIpin for "Reunion in New York." 
It hardly seems necessary to explain their preference for this fine Hotel— least of all to Notre Dame alumni. For it has been the privilege of the McAIpin for many years to render service to Notre Dame Faculty, athletic teams, and the student body in general. 
The beautiful, new rooms at Hotel McAIpin, its convenient location, and the superior service of the McAIpin combine to set a standard of hotel accom­modations rarely found elsewhere. 
We invite you to make Hotel MAclpin your New York Headquarters— any time you visit "The Big City." We promise you 100% satisfaction plus a friendly hospitality it is our pleasure to proffer. 
When may we expect you? JOHN J. WOELFLE, Manager. 
HOTEL McALPIN 
"The Centre of Convenience" 
BROADWAY AT 34th STREET 
Illinois, can be reached at 613 E. Washington. 

Al Torribio dropped me a card in August to state that he received my Christmas card a few days previous­ly.'!!! The "Trib" writes that he is rooming with John Warner Hopkins of the Xew Orleans clan, and that both have just finished a year of graduate work at U.S.C. Al invited me to drop out for my vacation, and said he would show me why they say "See Califoi'nia and die." Let's hear some more news from the West Coast, Al, and don't worry about the Southern Cal game this year. 
And that, gentlemen, concludes this column for the present. I appeal to the graduates of '30 to drop me a card, or a letter, and let me know what they are doing, and what they know about the re.st of the class. Trying to fill this column each month with the news gleaned from the gang in and around New York City is rather difficult. I'll answer all coi-­respondence, big or small, card or letter. So, let's hear from you. 
Since this may be the last issue of the ALUMXUS received before the Army game in Xovember, I'll close by extending an invitation to any of the class to give nie a ring and let me know when they reach town. 
George McNeile is working at the American Foundiy in Jlishawaka and residing at 72fl North St. Louis Bou­levard, South Bend. He moved up from Jlound City, Illinois, last De­cember. 
Gene Tobin, Galesburg, Illinois, is now a field agent in the income tax division of the Department of In­ternal Revenue—or will be after a training period in Washington, D.C. 
Homer Strickler, the New York Sioi flash, was in South Bend for a brief visit following an assignment in Fort Worth, Te.vas. 
Paul Guarnieri reniembeied the Alumni Office with a postcard from Rome. He was thei-e on August 25. No further dope! 
Another New York Sim man, Joe Schaiidt, was on the campus a couple of times this Summer, .going to and coming from Eagle River, Wisconsin, where he vacationed. Joe is in the Sun advertising department. 
Ccnal Byrne writes (to Professor Buckley) from 631 Woodcrest Ave­nue, Ardmore, Pennsylvania, saying that he is employed by the Pennsyl­vania Railroad in the taxation de­partment and intends to be in the Temple Universitv law school this Fall. 
Ed Hammer has entered St. Jo­seph's Seminary, Dunwoodie, New York, to study for the priesthood. 
George Moriarity is now coach at 

The  Notre  Dame  Alumnus  
Aquinas  High  School,  La  Ci-osse,  
Wisconsin.  

1Q27 Secretary: P.nul Foley. -14 Hampton Koad. Grosse Pointe. Michijran. 
Your secretaiy, the eminent Scho­lastic editor and Bengal Bouter, takes off in this most promising way: 
Now that diplomas have been suc­cessfully misplaced, and we are not attempting to force suits, footballs, playing cards and half a ham into a hand bag to gi-;ib the first South Bend express, we can concentrate on this new job and the business of raising alumni dues. 
There is nothing so new as a new graduate, (say prospective employ­ers.) In fact, the reaction of the average 1937 graduate this first Fall of freedom is probably much akin to the night the scoutmaster flashed that tenderfoot badge on his khaki shirt. But, anyway, we will only re­alize out status as alumni when we are chronicled in these pages. So, like the six-a-day hoofers, we leave the wings and crowd under that baby spot for a quick turn of heel and toe. 
Your correspondent has been di-afted—which will probably be an obvious fact. For the first month we ask indulgence as we hammer out these notes strictly by ear. 
Harold Joseph Druecker, sage of Kokomo, Indiana, has recently packed his tent and moved from Chicago to Indianapolis where he is taking over a sales territory for the Linde Air Products division of Union Carbide and Carbon, Joe worked the South Side of Chicago for the same concern and was an oxygen salesman deluxe. 
Last reports from Bob McClain in­dicate that he is still attached to the Hearst empire, working out of the Hcmltl-Ex(iminer offices in Chicago. Other journalists who have clicked: John A. "The Week" Gillespie, who has been Westfield correspondent for the Plainfield, New Jersey daily; Richard "Rocky" Riley, who has been handling the strike situation in and around Youngstown, Ohio, for the Youngstown Vindicator; Ed Fischer and Milton Bock who remain in South Bend, both on the Ncws-Time.-i. It is reported that Jack Hurley, de­serting his high mission, has taken to selling insui-ance. Frank Reilly has clicked on a paper somewhere, somehow but definite word has been lacking. 
Hal Tomascho, who finished in Summer School, hit Chicago after seizing the degi-ee. He was there briefly and we have heard no further from the front. 
We have been seized by a case of wonders, wondering where and how are such assorted '37 victims as: Parker Sullivan, dean of US all; Eir.il 
October, 1937 

Peter, he of the high-pockets; De-Lancey Davis, Joe Moore, Geech Pur­year, Bob Gehres, Jocko Byrne, €t al. With the vigorous plea so often exerted by city editors, we make bold to request information from these gents as to their whereabouts. We will not, however, be responsible for postal charges. 
Foley modestly fails to say that he himself is on a 24-hour job with The Pontine Dailij Prc.is, Pontiac, Michigan, after a spell of Hearstian training on the Chica'jo Evcniny .-[niericnn. 
Basil Gillespie is selling books for Doubleday, Doran & Co. in the South. 
Cy Stroker is in the New York of­fice of Norton, Lilly and Co., a firm of shipping agents. 
Ray Garland is in the offices of the Northern Indiana Public Service Company in Hammond, Indiana. 
Harry Koohler is ill the advertising department of the South Bend Lathe Works. 
Tom Luckey is with the Jones and Dabney Paint Co. in Louisville. 
Walt Neinaber is with the A'ational Pumps Corpoi-ation in Cincinnati. 
Fred Mundee is assistant to Wally Fromhart at Jit. Carmel High School in Chicago. 
Tom Dowling, A.M., is supervisor of the Vincentian Service Bureau in South Bend succeeding Luke Kelly, '35, who joined the staff of the St. Joseph County welfare department. 
Frank Kopczak is assistant coach at Washington University in St. Louis. 
Ed Neaher is a secretary in the offices of the Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Co. at 30 East 42nd Street in New Y'ork City. 
Dick Meier unfortunately spent part of the Summer in St. JIarj-'s Hospital, iMinneapolis, but expected to be back in Faulkton, South Dako­ta before long. 
Larry Danbom is coach of the Erie Cathedral High School in Erie, Penn­sylvania. 
Pat Fisher, down in Indianapolis, joined a college president and two college deans in June to tell a radio audience that college students are becoming more serious minded. The talks were sponsored by the NYA, 
Frank Marino is at the St. Louis University Medical School. 
Bob Siegfried visited the campus on .-Vugust 25. 
Pepper Martin is director of ath­letics and head coach at Boundbrook, New Jersey, High School. 











