The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
* — "1 
THE NOTPC DAME ALUMNUS 
VOL. VII CONTENTS FOE JUNE, 1929 No. 10 
Commencement Views, 1929 Frontispiece 1929 Commencement Addre.ss, by Col. William Donovan, LL.D. '29 301 Annual Meeting 304 President's Address, by Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C 307 The Eighty-fifth Annual Commencement 311 Baccalaureate Sermon, by Eev. Norbert Hoff, LL.D. '29 313 President Eggeman's Message ' 319 Laetare Medal Presentation , 1 1 320 Honorary Degrees, 1929 321 Football Tickets 325 The Alumni 326 
The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association 
of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 
a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include 
a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923. 
at the post office at Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1897. All corres­
pondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OP THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
MEMBER OP THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
OF THE 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
MARK M. FOOTE, '73 ------- Honorary President JOHN W. EGGEMAN, '00 --------- President JAMES E. DEERY, '10 - Vice-President JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 -------- Secretary WALTER DUNCAN, '12 ---- Treasurer ALFRED C. RYAN, '20 ---------- Director GEORGE M. MAYPOLE, '03 --------- Director 
M. HARRY MILLER, '10 --------- Director 
T. PAUL McGANNON, '07 --------- Director DON M. HAMILTON, '12 ------{ex officio) Director 

^(^4^1= 
r^ (55 



f THE NOTPC DAME ALUMNUS 1 
A magazine which seeks to unify Notre Dame spirit among Notre Dame airnnni; to keep alive the friendliness and democracy of the campus when campus days are gone; to acquaint Notre Dame alumni with the development of the University, and the broader devel­opment of the principles of Catholic education; to organize alumni activity so that it may better and in a greater measure attain its ends; to live in print as Notre Dame men live always, "For God, for Country, and for Notre Dame." 
i-i) 
1929 Commencement Address 
By COL. WILLIAM J. DONOVAN, LL.D., '29 
I
T has been pointed out many times that modern civilization has developed a force that is radically different from that pro­duced in any other civilization and that dif­ference lies in the fact that our civilization is grounded on science and upon the ma­chinery born from invention and science. 
Before steam the world was dependent for its material development and the pro­duction of its goods upon human muscle. This was supplemented by the muscle of a few animals, mostly horses and oxen har­nessed to rude treadmills and wagons. There was a limited use of wind and run­ning water. But on the whole the labor of 
COLONEL WILLIAM J. DONOVAN 

the world was done by a great number of 
human beings who were condemned to me­
chanical drudgery with no hope of release. 
Today for our labor we look to mechanical power rather than to animal powei*. While the great proportion of mankind are not yet free from tlrudgery, there is a hope, that mechanical progress will ultimately free them. 
Science has won for itself a place of tre­mendous importance in our modern life. It is only in recent years that that central factor has come to be recognized. You have learned that it was not until the early nine­teenth century that science through its process of invention, began to realign the structure of civilization. The English peo­ple of 1850 who saw the first railway, the first steamboat, the illumination of towns by gas, and the use of machinery, driven by power, saw only the starting point from which enduring work was to be done. Con­sider these facts: Any man who has lived over fifty years can say that before he was born no one had ever flown in the air, gone under the sea in a ship and come out alive, listened to a talking machine, spoken over a telephone, looked at a moving picture— much less a talking one, tuned in on a radio, run an automobile, or communicated by wireless. 
In the early eighties there was no college in this country where one could take a course in electrical engineering. But today no university can equip its students to go out into the modern world that has not pro­vided facilities not only for the specialist but for those who, if they are to maintain their place in modern organized society, must have some comprehension of machin­ery and its uses. And so science has won its way, not only in the perfection of new means of destruction in war, but in the more homely pursuits of agriculture and trade. 
It is upon a kind of scientific self-disci­pline that the modern state depends and modem industrial organization rests. We, who are the beneficiaries of such an indus­trial system, in some degree at least become subject to the system itself. Our great problem is while making the fullest use of these new forces that we should not be dominated by them. 

Economic life is only one phase of life and activity. Identified with every general economic system there are certain social and political conditions. Economic activi­ties which are more or less directly con­cerned with ijroduction and consumption of material goods have an important bearing upon political acti%'ity, that is, those forces of government which determine on a large scale men's relations one to another, in the obtaining of social peace. Our political system was conceived in a period when we were an agricultural country. Now, in a highly industrialized society, it is subjected to strains never contemplated. Improved systems of communication and transporta­tion have crowded us close together. This crowding tends to depersonalize men and make them as subject to taboos as the early tribes. It has made the position of the man in the universe smaller and less significant than anything that has happened since first it was discovered that the position of the earth in the scheme of the universe was much less important than man had believed. The development of the last century has been to lessen the position of importance of the individual by standardizing him and merging him in the mass of humanity. 
Throughout America, during the latter half of the nineteenth century, went on a process of little shops closing down, big factories growing bigger; little one-man businesses giving up, great corporations gi'owing and expanding; rural communities becoming stagnant, big cities pulsing for­ward; fai-m districts thinning out, cities growing denser; fewer shopkeepers able to buy where they would; fewer craftsmen, more factory operatives; fewer workers known by name to their employers, more carried on big factory payrolls as numbers identified by brass checks. The process was essentially an adjustment of man to Steam. 
The sweeping industrial changes since the end of the eighties are suggested by the fact that the evolution of the iron and steel industry, did not begin on a large scale until about 1887; the automobile industry did not live in the late eighties; the motion picture industry was non-existent; the chemical and electrical industries were in their infancy. Ninety percent of the total gro\\i;h of the electrical industry as a whole has occurred during tha past twenty-five years. 
There is an ever-widening gap between the things that people do to get a li\ang and the actual needs of living. New tools and techniques are being developed with stupen­dous celerity and in the wake of these technical developments come new ideas of culture and new habits of living. Radical changes in the conditions of work have driven the individual workman ever farther away from his farm and Adllage background of the eighties. More and more muscle is supplanted by invention and technology. The skillful hand of the master craftsman surrenders to those batteries of tireless iron men doing narrowly specialized things over and over and which need be only tended in their repetitive processes by the human worker. As the tools of industry become further elaborated, the business class be­comes increasingly involved in that by which the product of the worker is made available to the consumer. The whole business institution is dominated by the necessity of keeping costly machines busy and, as someone has said, the business man himself is subjected to almost as many restrictions as the machine dictates to the worker who manipulates its levers. 
In every development there are gains; also, there are losses. Our gains have been in facility of intercourse, in industrial growth, in the easening and broadening of human life. The definite line in loss is the loss of personal leadership. We are too apt to subordinate ourselves to the spirit of the machine. 
In this world of things that serve us, the important thing is, what kind of men we are. And if organization and invention and specialization debilitate the character of human beings and eat into the, fibre of their aspirations, then machines are not of real service. In an age when every American wears the same kind of clothes, reads the same comic strips, is indoctrinated' with the same catch-words, it is difficult to find in­dependence of judgment and the willingness to develop ideas and to assume leadership. 
In his book "A Preface to Morals," Wal­ter Lippman says that the American social system is migratory and revolutionary. He declared that "It provides no recognized leaders and no clear standards of conduct." The so-called leaders he says, "Have been educated to achieve success, few of them have been educated to exercise power." 
The great opportunity of the American univei'sity consists in giving to the in­dividual a sense of duty, an ample con­sciousness of ability, an ideal of courage, and a sense of the importance of human beings in the midst of the multiplicity of the things that serve them. There can be no greater value through a University edu­cation than this development of the indi­vidual in the midst of the regimentation of human society. The pz'imary function of an institution such as this, is not only to make men master of the material things of life, but to develop men free to make their own choice in this world and with courage and intelligence enough to make the right choice. 
But for the individual who is willing to stand out apart from his fellows and yet be of them, there is need of courage. There is no finer human attribute than this. Dr. Johnson has said that "Unless a man has that virtue, he has no security for pz-eserv­ing any other." It may be used for im­proper purposes, but whether moral or physical, it will compel the reluctant ad­miration of those who oppose the use to which it is put. Some Latin poet has said— perhaps it was Virgil—that the supreme test of physical courage was one who would stand unterrified even though the shattered earth came falling round his head. 
We have obtained victory over the powers of nature; what we need now are men who are willing to vanquish themselves and with the confidence that victory engenders, as­sume positions of right leadership among their fellow men. Some years ago J. M Barrie delivered an address on Courage at St. Andrews University in Scotland. He said: "Diligence-ambition; noble words, but only if 'touched to fine issues.' Prizes may be dross, learning lumber, unless they bring you into the arena with increased under­standing. Hanker not too much after worldly prosperity—that corpulent cigar; if you became a millionaire you would probably go swimming around for more like a diseased goldfish. Look to it that what you are doing is not merely toddling to a competency. Perhaps that must be your fate, but fight it and then, though you fail, you may still be among the elect of whom we have spoken." 
Today to men of that faith which this college teaches, there is particular need of that quality of courage which is guided by intelligence, and directed by honor, a cour­age that can be patient. You will be sub­jected to attacks and attempted discrimina­tions by certain narrow and ignorant groups, but you men, ^vith the training that you have had here, cannot surrender to bigotry. You cannot yourselves be guilty of that which you condemn in others. 
"Catholic" ought not to be a label. It is a faith, not a profession. It should repre­sent a sterling character built in Christian principles. We should be Catholic in the true sense, universal in our sympathy, broad in our interests, and tolerant in our judg­ment. To you of this univei'sity there should be especial inspiration in the name of your institution. Notre Dame signifies chivalry, and that is a true source of courage. 
This is a young man's institution. It was founded by a young man, who was filled not only with missionary zeal, but with a fine loyalty to the country of his adoption. 
The same resourcefulness that made pos­sible the building of this institution has characterized it ever since. In your sports you have assumed the dominant position in that particular sport that requires an un­usual degi-ee of individual courage, re­sourcefulness and team-work. These are the qualities that fit men for leadership, and these are the qualities which your col­lege during your years here has endeavored to inculcate in you. 
The years ahead for you are glorious if you will make them so. You cannot stand to one side, indiiferent, or scornful, or cyni­cal. You must go in and put your shoulder to the task. Insist that you have a right to go in and help on the job. You cannot be content to find an easy cushion for your limbs, weary of the conflict before it starts. Your great opportunity is to help to work out a happier world for all. And in doing that, the problems you must face while difficult, are not desperate. They call for straight thinking and sustained effort. In any immediate future our race does not seem doomed to extinction through failure of natural resources. The tasks that will be handed to you are not of this negative source. They are more constructive, more challenging to your leadership. Yours is the task to help build a civilization that will provide for health and well-being upon a level of comfort rather than upon a level of poverty. Before us there is gi-eat ex­pectation that this can be accomplished. 
The task of youth is to make this a fact of accomplishment. Your practical problem is how to go forward, to raise the standards of life, to better the technique of production and distribution by a fairer apportionment of income, by a rationalization of the use of income, and by an intelligent considera­tion of plans that will make our political institutions resilient enough to be responsive to changing economic and social conditions. There can be such revision without a loss of principle, there can be a change in pro­cedure without a sacrifice of substance. There may be many generations of graduat­ing classes before we can see the effective result of a constructive impulse that will liberate us from distrust and prejudice; but this is the day when you enlist to push for­ward that kind of civilization and leave your college here a record of accomplish­ment that will inspire your brothers who are to come. 

Minutes of Annual Meeting 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE' DAME, WASHINGTON HALL, NOTRE DAME, JUNE 2, 1929. 
The meeting was called to order at 2 p. m. by President Hamiltor.. 
On motion Mr. Byron Kanaley, the Class of 1929 was admitted to the Association by a rising vote of the men.ibcrs. 
On motion the minutes of the last meet­ing were dispensed. 
The Treasurer's Report was read by the Secretary in the absence of Mr. Duncan, and on motion approved. 

The Secretary's Report was read and ap­proved. 
The report of the Tellers, Paul R. Martin, '09; S. H. Nussbaum, '87, and Paul R. Con­aghan, '20, was read by Mr. Martin. Only two elective offices were counted, following the withdrawal of Mr. Ambrose O'Connell as a presidential candidate. The results of the election were: for vice-president, James 
E. Deery, Indianapolis, 443; Frank Loner­gan, Portland, Ore., 411—^for Director, T. Paul McGannon, New York City 426; Al­bert G. Feeny, Indianapolis, 424. By the provisions of the constitution Mr. Deery and Mr. McGannon were declared elected, on motion of Mr. Cartier for acceptance of the Tellers' report. 
The list of alumni who died during the past year was read and a committee con­sisting of Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., Hugh Daly, and Robert Proctor, was ap­pointed by the President and drew up the following resolutions: 
"Whereas God in His wisdom has taken from this life John F. Devine, Jr., LL.B., '12; Col. Pierce Murphy, C.E, '92; Joseph 

M. Haley, LL.B., '99; Rev. Joseph N. Dona­hue, C.S.C, Litt.B., '14; Patrick T. O'SulU­van, '70-'74; El. '11; Max Houser, LL.B., '25; Stanley Ryehowski, LL.B., '27; Rt. Rev. Msgr. Francis BickerstafFe-Drew, LL.D. '17; Hon. Judson Harmon, LL.D., '11; Jo­seph Kinney, LL.Bi, '02; Joseph D. Becker, Boy Guidance, '26; Thomas H. Grier, B.S., '75; Hon. Dudley G. Wooten, LL.D., '25; Robert Flynn, BC.S., '25; Charles H. San­ford, A.B., '90; J. J. Hassett, '09-'ll, El. '26; 
Thomas Quinlan, '95; Thomas H. Curran, 
Ph.G., '16; Hubert M. Hersam, E.E., '24; 
and Brother Barnabas, F.S.C., LL.D., '24, 
loyal and devoted members of the Univer­
sity of Notre Dame Alumni Association 
during this past year, and 
"Whereas, these members have served 
their God, their Country and their Alma 
Mater with glory in their respective avo­
cations, 
"Be it resolved, that this Association ex­
tend to the relatives heartfelt sympathy 
with promise of prayers that the same God 
in His mercy will be generous to their souls 
and grant them that eternal rest which we 
all so earnestly crave. 
"Be it further resolved that an expres­
sion of the above be -written on the official 
records of the Alumni Association and a 
copy sent to the bereaved relatives. 
Respectfully submitted." 

The following list of applicants for mem­bership was presented by the Board of Di­rectors. On motion of Mr. Sanford, the applicants were granted membership on payment of dues. 
Arthur G. Wallace, La Porte, Ind.; M. J. Turner, Chicago; Edward M. Waldron, New­ark, N. J.; Al McGann, South Bend; Wil­liam F. Purcell, Kansas City, C. Cameron Dooley, Paterson, N. J.; Joseph E. McGraw, Tulsa, Okla.; E. A. McDonald, Phoenix, Ariz.; Eay Daschbach, Los Angeles; Harry Hague, Gary; Walter Houghton, Newark, 
N. J.; Karl Pfeiffer, Orange, N. J.; William Weber, Chicago; James Welch, Rochester, 
N. Y.; Henry Eicher, Notre Dame; J. H. B. McCarthy, South Bend; (honorai-y) Frank Hassett, Parkersburg, W. Va.; Wm. McCul­lough, Davenport, Iowa, and Dr. Tobin, El­gin, III. 
In his closing remarks. President Hamil­ton pointed out the deficit of more than $1900 which existed at the close of the year and expressed the hope that the situation appeared for the last time. In this con­nection he announced the action of the Board on June 1 in changing the dues of the Association from $5 annually to a minimum of $5 annually, with the expressed desire of the Board that all alumni in a position to do so would contribute more than the five dollars to the Association. The meeting approved the action of the Board. 
President Hamilton yielded the chair to the new president. In a splendid inaugural talk, Mr. Eggeman expressed his apprecia­tion of the honor, his regret at the with­drawal of Mr. O'Connell as rival candidate, and his intention of making the alumni pro­gram under his administration coincident with the immediate and future program outlined by Father Charles O'Donnell at the alumni banquet, so that by united efFort the dream of Notre Dame as the greatest seat of Catholic learning in the world may be realized. 
Under new business, Harry Miller moved that the first step in the new administration be the elimination of the existing deficit. He led the following list of contributors in a generous volunteering of donations which totalled §971, including a fund of $76 raised among the Class of '29 at their suggestion. Of this subscription, §801 was paid in in cash during a ten minute recess on the mo­tion of Byron Kanaley. The list: Harry Miller, Byron Kanaley, Harry Crumley, Wil­liam P. Devine, Warren Cartier, Charles M. Niezer, Frank O'Shaughnessy, Robert Proc­tor, George Maypole, G. A. Farabaugh, Rob­ert M. Anderson, Mark M. Foote, Vitus Jones, Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, Bernard Voll, George Coury, Paul Castner, James San­ford, Hugh Daly, Fred Steers, William Draper, Dan O'Coimor, Danny Hilgartner, Father Moriarty, Frank Coughlin, Charlie Molz, for the Detroit Club; Class of 1929, Callix Miller, Ed Meehan, Alex Colgan, Tim Galvin, D. A. Kelly, Dick and John Halpin, Martin Shcnur, Dr. J. B. Berteling, 
John Eggeman, Class of '97 (by a priest from Garden City, L. I., who doesn't want his name used. Rev. Maurice Griffin, F. X. Wall, Richard Gilfoyle. 
Frank O'Shaughnessy read to the Asso­ciation the eight nominees for members of the Board of Lay Trustees of the Univer­sity, tn-^o alumni members to be elected this year for terms of six years to succeed Warren Cartier and C. C. Mitchell, whose terms expired. The nominees were: War­ren Cartier, C. C. Mitchell, John F. Gush­ing, Frank C. Walker, Gus F. Meehan, Charles P. Neill, William W. Gray and John 
L. Corley. Balloting resulted in the re­election of Mr. Cartier and the election of Jolm F. Gushing to succeed Mr. Mitchell. 
Mr. Cartier expressed his pleasure at the 
/emarks of President Eggeman concerning 
the future alunmi program. He took the 
occasion to urge more attention to life mem­
bership in the Association He stated that 
he and Dan O'Connor wished to bring be­
fore the meeting the suggestion for in­
creasing the vice-presidents to two, and the 
directors to nine. Mr. O'Shaughnessy stated 
that this was a condition that existed prev­
ious to the adoption of the new Constitution 
and was one of the conditions that the Con­
stitutional committee decided were imprac­
ticable. He pointed out the more aggressive 
administrations that have sensed with the 
smaller boards. No action was taken. 
James E. Sanford moved that the Alumni 

Association request the Board of Athletic 
Control of the University to give alumni 
the same preference in the distribution of 
season tickets which is now extended in the 
general ticket distribution, so long as this 
preference does not interfere with plans for 

the new stadium. The motion was carried. 
Paul Castner suggested that the Local Alumni Clubs could assist the Association in securing the payment of dues, and prom­ised to put this suggestion into effect in the 
N. D. Club of the St. Joseph Valley. 
Upon motion of Mr. O'Shaughnessy, the members gave a rising vote of thanks to the retiring ofiicers. 
Mr. O'Shaughnessy suggested that, fol­lomng Mr. Castner's idea, the ALUMNUS print a request of the President of the As­sociation for suggestions from alumni, and that answers desei-\ang publication also ap­pear in the magazine. 
Mr. Castner added that his travels have brought home to him the lack of knowledge of Notre Dame among the scattered alumni, and that he suggested a committee or group of some Mnd to work with the University in spreading the facts about Notre Dame among the alunmi. 
G. A. Farabaugh was given the floor to explain the box sale plan by which the new stadium is being initially financed. Follow­ing Mr. Farabaugh's explanation of the method by which the University is raising funds from the sale of boxes over a ten-j'ear period, there was considerable discussion of the relation of the prices of the boxes to the practicability of purchase by the alumni in general. Contributions to the discussion 
were made by Mr. Sanford, Mr. Bernard Voll, Mr. Paul Castner, Mr. Farabaugh, Mr. O'Shaughnessy, Mr. Kanaley, Mz-. Cartier and Mr. Frank Coughlin. Much information was elicited in this discussion. The immed­iate approach of the Commencement hour brought the discussion of the plan to a close, and on motion the meeting adjourned. JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, 
Alumni Secretary. 

TREASURER'S REPORT, 1929 

RECEIPTS  
June 1, 1928—  
Balance  on  hand  $  662.47  
June 1, 1929—  
Total dues collected  7,060.00  
Interest on bond  60.00  
Alumni Fund donations  20.00  
Advertising  revenue  810.25  
Miscellaneous receipts  111.51  
Subscriptions  to Alumnus  26.00  
$8,750.23  

(Ed. Note: Neither the alumni fund gifts nor subscriptions to the ALUMNUS were asked this year, which accounts for the negligible contributions under these head­ings.) 
DlSBUESEJIENTS Administrative Expense $4,259.66 Publishing Alumnus 2,570.24 Stamps 562.52 Binding Alumnus 131.00 Office Supplies 493.72 Miscellaneous Expense 378.00 Secretary's Traveling Expense 224.50 Carnival Expense 145.83 Alumnus Covers 112.50 
$8,877.97 Overdrawn .$ 127.74 

(Ed. Note: Besides the amount over­drawTi as shown, Mr. Duncan reported out­standing bills, totalling almost $1,800. The Association incuri-ed these even after the deficit was obvious, because the oificers felt that the financial loss could be recouped much better than the loss that would have followed any curtailment of the acti\'ities which involved the expenditures. Over half of the entire deficit was subscribed at the annual meeting Sunday, June 2.) 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 


President's Address 
BY REVEREND CHARLES L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C. 
(Delivered at the Alumni Banquet, June 1, 1929.) 
T T has often occurred to me that a certain •'• well known cartoon might be extended by sketches entitled "I Wonder What a College 
President Thinks About?" Because, strange as it may seem, college presidents do think occasionally. At any rate I am going to tell you tonight some of the things I have been thinking about this past year, my first year as president of j'our Alma Mater and mine. 
To begin with I find myself thinking a good deal about the past. There goes with this office, as there should go with it, a strong consciousness of tradition and con­tinuity. The men of other days uncon­sciously saw to that. They were so big as to impose themselves on the future, to write their names indelibly on the scroll that is 
Notre Dame. Sorin can no more be for­gotten here than Washington can in the his­tory of our country. And not Sorin alone but Dillon and Corby and Father Thomas Walsh, Father Morrissey, Father Cava­naugh, Father Burns and Father Matthew Walsh. (No other president of this Uni­versity has ever had the good fortune that is mine in having around him, assisting him with wise counsel and friendly sym­pathy, three living ex-presidents of Noti-e Dame.) I regard this strong sense of tradi­tion as one of the most important and val­uable assets of the school. Institutions can­not, any more than individuals, cut them­selves adrift from their moorings without peril. The past, rightly understood and evaluated, can never be an encumbrance. It is rather an inspiration, a challenge and a spur to progress. Situations are constantly arising which demand faith and courage; no day comes but calls for good honest indus­try. A president of Notre Dame need never be at a loss to know how to meet the exac­tions of the hour. If he thinks his problems and his difficulties are overwhelming let his thoughts turn to young Sorin in that winter of '42, under contract to build and open a chartered college within two years, without a dollar to his name, with no faculty but himself, and nothing but a log cabin for a college building. Let his thoughts go back to Civil War days, when the place was stripped of its best men who went into the service: let him remember a later war when as soon as the call came for chaplains. Father Morrissey and Father Cavanaugh, Provincial and President respectively, Avith a sublime disregard for consequences, sent into the service of our country six of the most active young priests on the faculty, two of whom have since become presidents of the University and one a member of the American Hierarchy, Bishop Finnigan. No, there is nothing small, there is nothing cramping about the Notre Dame tradition. It abounds vnth. high example, and while men treasure this heritage of theirs they 
are the more likely to leave a heritage of honor to those who come after them. 
I should like now to make brief mention of outstanding events of the scholastic year just closed. 
The school opened in September with a total enrollment of 2,977 college men, ex­clusive of St. Edward's Hall and Holy Cross Seminary. 
The University was admitted as a char­ter member of the International Association of Catholic Universities, one of two Ameri­can universities thus far admitted. 
Several books have been published by faculty members, notably a scholarly mono­graph on Franklin by Professor Carey, of the Depai-tment of Economics. A philo­sophical dissertation by Father Leo Ward is now in press, to be published by the McMil­lan Co. The Notre Dame tradition in let­ters has been carried on in a new book of poems by Father Carroll and the President has sung his swan song in a book of verse which appeared, and disappeared, this year. 
The Laetare Medal was awarded to Gov­ernor Smith. It is safe to say that seldom if ever has a selection for the Laetare Medal met with such universal approval. The presentation of the Medal in New York City on the night of May 5th brought together some of the most distinguished men in the life of our nation. Cardinal Hayes presided at the exei-cises and paid glowing tribute to the Medallist and to the University. The President of the United States honored the occasion by a personal letter in which he praised Governor Smith as a public man and commended the public spirit of the University in honoring such a citizen. The exercises were held under the auspices of the Notre Dame Club of New York, who are to be congratulated and to be thanked for their splendid management of the whole affair. 
Mr. Eoy, a senior in the college of Arts and Letters, won the National Oratorical Championship, receiving the unanimous vote of the seven judges of the contest, a unique tribute. This is the second time Notre Dame has won a National Champion­ship in Oratory, the first winner being Ed O'Flynn, '07. 
St. Edward's Hall, after operating for nearly half a century as a great school for younger boys, has been closed to meet the pressing demands for residence on the part of college students. It is estimated that nearly two hundred college men will be lodged in St. Edward's Hall next year. 

Professor Knowles Smith, of the college of Engineering, was appointed by the gov­ernor of Indiana to the State Conservation Committee. 
In the Department of Athletics our coach­ing staff has been strengthened by the acquisition of Tom Lieb, rescued from the Big Ten. 
A stadium is under way as the result of studies and plans undei-taken last year un­der the administration of Father Walsh with the invaluable assistance of the Board of Lay Trustees. The plan of financing the stadium is that of the advance sale of boxes over a pariod of ten years. To date this advance sale of seats has passed the two hundred thousand dollar mark. The Os­born Engineering Company, of Cleveland, has been selected to do the work. They have a national reputation in this field, having built stadia at Michigan and Min­nesota as well as at some forty other schools. 
A University golf course is under con­struction on 135 acres of land set aside for this purpose. The initial expense of this course, amounting to something over §21,­000, was assumed by the late Mr. William 
J. Burke, of Portsmouth, Ohio. 
In the religious life of the school at least one notable development has occurred, though, as it is well knowTi, the entire re­ligious program at Notre Dame, with more than 330,000 student communions in the course of the year, is most remarkable. This year the students asked for perpetual ador­ation of the Blessed Sacrament. This was arranged for the month of May, during the hours from 6:30 a. m. till 5:30 p. m. Stu­dents volunteered to be present in half hour periods all day long. The appeal of the devotion was quite general and the response most striking. 
During the month of May, too, the pleasant custom was introduced by a large group of students of visiting the Grotto every evening after supper and there sing­ing hymns in honor of the Blessed Virgin. 
I pass over much that might be said re­garding what I must simply call the good­ness of our boys. For the most part they are really wonders. They're human, they get into scrapes sometimes, but I tell you it is my honest conviction that there is no school in the world with 3^000 students that can even be compared to them in all around manly virtue. Their spiritual director is the enterprising and indefatigable Father John O'Hara, who is humble enough to attribute all his phenomenal success to God and to the help he receives from the other priests on the campus. 

And now most interesting of all, what of the future? I wonder what a college presi­dent thinks of the future? Perhaps his "thinking" on this point may more ac­curately be described as dreaming. But at least he sees his fondest dreams being re­alized,—at other schools. I'll tell you exactly what I mean. I vision, and I be­lieve that many of you share that vision, a future Notre Dame that will be the greatest Catholic seat of learning in the whole wide world. Father Wenninger, of the School of Science, has just come home to us with his Doctor's degree from the University of Vienna. Father James Mc­Donald is now at Oxford pursuing special studies in this chosen field of English Litera­ture. Next year there will be other Com­munity members abroad, one at the Sor­bonne in Paris and another in Spain. Others will pursue special studies in Eome and at various universities in our own country. My point is this: while it will be necessaiy, and from certain points of \'isw, highly desira­ble for our men to go elsewhere to study, the time should come, and God speed the day, when students from the four quarters of the globe will make their way to Notre Dame for the reason that nowhere else in the world can the same studies be pursued so advantageously as at Notre Dame; for the reason that the prestige of the school will be such as to impinge upon the imagi­
nation of scholars everywhere. I vision Notre Dame, not merely as a college which distributes knowledge, but as a university whose function, as you know, is the exten­sion of the field of knowledge itself. Here the research must be done and the discov­eries made which shall widen the very boun­daries of the known truth, whether in his­tory or litei-ature, art, science, or what de­partment you will. • Learning takes its start at the top. It is solitary to begin with, the possession probably of one lone scholar who has labored for years to make certain of one sole fact or one principle of knowledge. It makes its way more or less slowly through a limited group of similar scholars. Gradually it becomes the property of edu­cators in general and finally is popularized for the woi"ld at large. Work inversely; trace back the progress that our time has seen in almost any art or craft, in medicine or any other useful science. You will find that unerringly your quest leads you from the crowd to the one lone man, the genius who devoted his life to study, experiment and research. In my own experience I have seen the first automobile made in America on the streets of my home town as a boy. And that crazy vehicle, as we thought it then, the father of this whole wonderful motor age in which we live, was the product of just such industry and genius as I have described. 
How is this dream to be realized? How can we make sure of such a future for Notre Dame? We have already a good start. In the material plant, in faculty members and above all in that intangible quality that makes the spirit of the school. We have faith and courage, not less than had our fathers. As for industry, there is no more devoted, hard working group of men in any college today than there is in the faculty, clerical and lay, at Notre Dame. Most important of all we have truth itself both as an actual possession and as a de­tsnnining guide in the direction of our fu­ture development. There are universities and great foundations whose material re­sources are unlimited but which lack this one thing necessary and the results of their ex­pensive efforts are only too often confusion, worse confounded. 
When I said a moment ago that we have a good start on this Notre Dame of the fu­ture, I meant just that. It is only a start, both in physical equipment and in person­nel. Gentlemen, this work will require mil­lions of dollars. We might as well face that absolute fact. I am not starting a drive or a campaign for funds, I am not asking money from anyone, but I am tell­ing you it is the height of folly to think that Notre Dame can successfully compete with other schools of similar rank without having, to some extent, the same material resources. Harvard, to take only one in­stance, has an endowment of nearly ninety million dollars, added to each year by enor­mous gifts. Notre Dame has an endow­ment of one million dollars, the interest on which helps to pay the salaries of lay pro­fessors. Because we have one of the best Boards of Trustees in the country, men who devote themselves without any thought of return for their serNaces, and manage our funds with more care than they do their own fortunes, we receive an average rate of interest which is a little better than six percent, that is to say, something better than $60,000.00 a year. Our faculty pay­roll this year was in excess of $155,000.00 and for next year will be close to $175,­
000.00. A few weeks ago the University of Michigan, which as need not be pointed out is a state-supported school, received from an alumnus a gift of a million and "a half dollars for the purpose of building a law library. We are hoping this year to have $200,000.00 which we can take out of cur­rent revenue and put into a Law Building which will house our law library and our entire College of Law. 

But what of football money? What of thj enormous returns that come in fi'om games which fill the Yankee Stadium in N.iw York and Soldier Field in Chicago? Football returns, as everybody knows, must carry the entire Department of Athletics. Up till this year the net returns in our Department of Athletics have never reached $?.00,000.00. This year they have gone over that. It is more than likely that all of that return will have to be put back into the department to complete the payment for the stadium. As has been said, we are trying to raise all the money we can by the ad­vance sale of boxes. Payment for these boxes, even though as much as one-half of the cost of the stadium could be realized in this way, is to be spread over a period of four years, but engineers' and contractors' bills will have to be met as they fall due, and that means that all available cash will be needed. 
I realize that this dream has taken a pretty matter of fact character. But you must see, as I do, that that is in its favor. A man's head may be in the clouds but his feet must stay on the ground, and of this much you may be sure, that however keenly we realize the need of expansion and de­velopment, no step will be taken which will in any way jeopardize the future of the school, no move will be made that is not dictated by the most prudent financial judg­ment. 

What has been said with regard to the material needs of the school applies equally to the faculty situation. I quote from a statement issued by Columbia University, New York: "The faculty salary scale at Columbia is not on a parity Avith those at Yale and Harvard. Columbia has lost teachers this year as a result." The same is true for Notre Dame. This year two of our best teachers are leaving us for other universities with whose salary scale we can­not compete. 
I do not wish to close on anything like a note of defeat. Nor do I wish in conclusion to propose anything like a practical method of augmenting the University's resources. I have done my part in telling you what a college president thinks about and dreams about. I have unlimited faith in the future of Notre Dame, because that faith is one thing with the faith we all have in Almighty God and in the special protection which we know the Blessed Virgin has for this school whose name is her name. 
ATTENTION READERS 
This is the final issue of Vol. VII. Publication will be suspended as usual during the months of July and Au­gust. BOUND COPIES OF THIS VOLUME CAN BE OBTAINED FEOM THE ALUMNI OFFICE FOR THREE DOLLARS ($3) EACH. PUT ONE IN YOUR OWN LI­BRARY, IN THE CATHOLIC OR PUBLIC SCHOOL LIBRARIES AND THE PUBLIC LIBRARY OF YOUR COMMUNITY. 



The Eighty-fifth Annual Commencement 
May 30—June 2, 1929 
^^EO M every angle, the Commencement 
cy of 1929 exceeded all previous Com­
mencements, which is in the proper 

order of things, but inspiring nevertheless. 
Memorial Day, May 30, gave alumni a day to add to the customary week-end. Ten members of the Association from the eastern seaboard seized the opportunity, seven of them coming in Thursday afternoon, three going on through to Chicago to return the next day. Professor Robert Anderson, '83, was the first to register, having "skived" similar activities at Stevens Institute in Hoboken, where he is a veteran faculty member. 
Registration began Friday, in earnest, and duz'ing the week-end five hundred alumni, in addition to the members of the Class of 1929, numbering four hundred fifty, registered in the Alumni Office. 
The Reunion groups began to ferret each other out on the campus, and by Friday night many of the old friendships were back on an 1883, 1904 or 1924 basis. At 6:30, Joe Casasanta conducted the University Band in its final campus concert, winning the many alumni and visitors completely. At 7:45 the University Theater presented "Julius Caesar." This is one of those occasions when "there has been so much said, and on the whole so well said" that it leaves the dramatic critic only the brief but eloquent statement that the Notre Dame cast, under the direction of Pi-of. Frank Kelly, in a version written by Profs. Kelly and Charles Phillips, did the great play all the justice that could have been asked of far more experienced players. Prof. Kelly, Prof. Doyle and John Leddy were the prin­cipals. 
Saturday morning Rev. Walter Lavin, C.S.C, celebrated a Requiem Mass for de­ceased alumni in Sacred Heart Church at 
8:00 o'clock. At 9:30 the Seniors paid their beautiful Last Visit. From there they went to the gymnasium for the annual Class Day exercises. The magnitude of the Class and the numerous visitors and alumni have made it necessary to sacrifice the traditional at­mosphere of Washington Hall for these events. 
In the afternoon, a group of track stars 
from the I. A. C. competed with Notre 
Dame stars in a special series of events that 
demonstrated the excellent work Coach 
John Nicholson has been doing with some 
outstanding material. 
Saturday night the Annual Alumni Ban­quet was held in the East Dining Hall, ex­cellent service and cuisine showing once more the uniform efficiency of the Dining Halls organization under the management of Robert Borland. The fine service and splendid meals were enjoyed by thousands of visitors during the week-end. The fea­ture of the banquet was the address of Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, which appears in this issue. 
Prof. Robert Anderson, '83, represented the first Dix group, reminiscing in a most pleasing manner, recalling in a most inter­esting fashion for all present the Notre Dame of the early '80s. Byron Kanaley gave a paper for the Class of 1904 that was an exemplary thing in its field, painting the picture of the Silver Reunion Class as it lived on the campus, and painting a second canvas of the same gi-oup twenty-five years later, still living Notre Dame as faithfully as in its student days. Paul Castner, representing the Dix group of the early '20s, sounded the new note of real development among the alumni, and the hearty support that this development may expect from the younger alumni. Jim Hayes of New York spoke for the 5-year Class of '24, commenting on the continued presence of Notre Dame in the outside world into which the Class went, and the appreciation of the Class for Notre Dame in this new environment. 
A number of informal talks were given by alumni and guests. Very Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C, '07, Superior General of the Congi-egation, gave a splendid and en­tertaining welcome to the alumni. Rt. Rev. Bernard Mahoney, D. D., Bishop of Sioux Falls, paid Notre Dame a beautiful tribute in a very few words, in his capacity as honorary president of the Mt. St. Mary's alumni of Emmetsburg, Md. 
On the quadrangle, during the early hours 
of the banqu_t, the non-alumni visitors at 
Commencement were treated to a fine con­
cert by the Band of the Studebaker Corpor­
ation, a much appreciated event that has 
come to be associated with Commencement 
at Notre Dame. 
Following the banquet, the University 
Glee Club and Orchestra, under the direc­
tion of Joseph Casasanta, '23, appeared in 
concert in Washington Hall, before a full 
and enthusiastic house. The excellence of 
the programs was on a par with the past 
perfomiances which have given these or­
ganizations their reputations. 
An alumni smoker in the West Dining 
Hall late in the evening proved, with last 
year's affair of a similar nature, that the 
good will of the alumni is very much alive, 
but that they prefer their O\\TI pursuits 
after the other events of the evening. Magis­
ter dixit. 

Sunday was of course the most colorful of the Commencement days. At 8:30 the beautiful academic procession, clergy, fac­ulty and gi-aduates, marched from the Main Building to the Church, where the Solemn Pontifical Mass was celebrated by the Et. Rev. Bishop Mahoney. Eev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, was assisting priest; Eev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C, Deacon; Eev. 
L. J. Carrico, C.S.C, Sub-Deacon; Eev. L. 
L. Ward, C.S.C, Chaplain to the Bishop; Eevs. M. A. Mulcaire, C.S.C, and P. J. Haggerty, C.S.C, Deacons of Honor. The Moreau Seminary Choir and the University Glee Club sang the Mass, including a "Bene­dictus" by Eev. A. B. Hope, C.S.C, '20. Blessing of the Senior flag followed the Mass, and led by the Band the Seniors mai-ched to the flagpole on the quadrangle, where the flag was raised. 
At 2:00 o'clock Sunday afternoon the An­nual Alumni Meeting was held in Washing­ton Hall. Tlie attendance was too light to be satisfactory, but the business and discus­sion indicated an awakening of alumni in­terest that practically guarantees the cariying out of the alumni program during the coming years. An account of the meet­ing appears separately. 
At 5:00 o'clock the academic procession again foi-med and marched from the Main building to the gymnasium, where the 453 degi-ees in course and in honorem were awarded, and where the crowded rows of 
graduates, their relatives and friends, and 
alumni listened to the splendid address de­
livered by Col. William Donovan, of Buf­
falo, N. Y., war hero, former assistant 
Attorney General of the United States, and 
prominently mentioned for a post in the 
Hoover cabinet following the recent cam­
paign. Col. Donovan's address appears 
separately. 
These few paragraphs fail utterly to 

describe the fine tone that prevailed 
throughout the Commencement, the splendid 
spirit that was manifest among alumni and 
\asitors. The ALUMNUS can only repeat 
that this week-end must be attended to be 
appreciated. Plan now for next year. 
AWARD TO MAURUS 

The Second Annual Lay Faculty Founda­tion award of five hundred dollars for the member of the lay faculty of the University who shall have been deemed most deserv­ing during the year, was bestowed this year upon Edward Joseph Maurus, B. S. '93, 
M. S. '95, a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1895. 
The award is made possible by the Lay Faculty Foundation Fund of the Alumni Association, raised through the effoi-ts of a committee headed by Byi-on V. Kanaley, '04, and designed to indicate the appreciation of the alumni for the contribution of the lay faculty to the development of the Uni­versity. The fund is administered by the Board of Lay Trastees of the University, and the award detei-mined by the University administration. 
The 1929 recipient will find unanimous favor among the alumni. For the past two years he has been honorary president of the Alumni Association and has always taken an active interest in the affairs of the or­ganization. Thirty-four years of teaching mathematics at Notre Dame have created for him an annually increasing circle of pupils and friends. 

FATHER DUFFY VISITS 

The Eev. Francis Duffy, chaplain of the famous "Fighting Sixty-Ninth" New York regiment, was a guest at Commencement, accompanying Col. William Donovan, the Commencement speaker, from New York. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUJINUS 


Baccalaureate Sermon 
BY THE VEEY EEV. NOEBERT C. HOFF, S.T.B., PH.D., LL.D. 
(President of Mt. St. Charles College, Helena, Montana.) 
"I ivnte to you, young men, because you are strong and the faith of God abideth in you, and you have overcome the ivicked one."—2 Jno. 2-14. 
T
HESE words are from a letter of St. John, the Evangelist, written at Ephe­sus near the close of the first century of grace. Four words, Youth, Strength, Faith, Conquest, does this te.xt contain, but these 
EEV. DR. HOFF, LL.D., '29 

are four words to charm and fascinate the youth that dons the toga and receives the accolade where light glints on radiant dome bearing the image of The Lady. This John received the commission of sonship and the loving care of The Lady. Talking to men, if I have suggested that this John is the Apostle of Love, I shall as quickly recall that he was nicknamed "son of thunder." Translate these two titles into a single phrase and say: "John was a strong gentle­man." How easily will the men of this university understand the man who pos­
sessed such a fury of passion as to be called a son of thunder and who brought the mighty springs of gi-eat action under the sovereignty of self-control and the sover­eignty of God so that he has become an inner-circle thought-associate of love and gentleness. Such a man to be sure embodies a Notre Dame man's idea of sonship,— speak we of alma mater, country, the lady that bore you, the Lady, Bride of Christ, that re-begot us to the supernatural. I think of him also as our sex's solitary ex­ample of loyalty to the end beneath the cross. He was a youthful i)riest. I know how well is prized the sacred comradeship with priest-instructors here in the precincts of Notre Dame. Let then this given son of our Lady, Notre Dame, suggest the word which is spoken to Youth of Strength and of Faith and of Conquest. 
I. 

Those who teach have found the fountain of perpetual youth. If they pass on the torch of wisdom, they themselves are enkindled by the youth whom they sei-ve. They are fired by youthful enthusiasm not too dampened by chilling fact. They breathe the air of youth's generous optim­ism not frostbitten by cynicism and dis­illusionment. They live in the city of high hopes, of great plans, of energies undimin­ished. It is a real world and a dream world, this city of youth. Men are showing to what marvelous extent the powers of the body can be developed, mind is asserting its rightful kingship, curiosity drinks of wis­dom and tastes of fact like bees which glue their lips to each successive chalice of honey, men strong become stronger still as in this fane youth implores Him who is called "Mighty"—"Da robur, fer auxilium." In this real world where innocence becomes positive as character, where are chiseled in mind and member the lines of a man, there are dreams of land and home and love, of work and play, of high acting and victorious battle projected on the screen of the future 
and not a little conditioned by the dreams which young men dream. Only a man who thoughtlessly thinks it matters not what we think, what we believe, berates ideas, ideals and idealism. Only one crude enough to think that we can stop an invasion of bayonets, fails to see that there is no stopping an invasion of ideas. Only one mad enough to suggest the method of trial and ei-ror for the building of a Brooklyn Bridge, cynically disregards a prophet and a program. In the gi"eat world of youth and its Gamaliels, in the days of gi-eat do­ing and of dreaming, is projected the pic­ture that shall be. 

"Because I would be young in soul and mind Though years must pass and age my life constrain. And I have found no way to lag behind The fleeting years, save by one magic chain That binds me youthful to the youth I love, I teach." II. Of a certain Sunday there appeared in the pictorial comics of a metropolitan paper a fine compliment remarking that "nobody but men goes" to Notre Dame. In the tech­nical sense of comedy, in the sense of heroes triumphant, this compliment may well have been on a page of laughs, for strong men are humorous enough to see the incon­sistencies of things and virile enough to wear the modest smile of victory. Of course there is nothing uproarious nor bumptious about strength as with Falstaf­fian strength which is laughable, whereas strength laughs. It will always be true that "Self-knowledge, self-power, self-con­trol, these three, lead life to sovereign pow­er." The gentleman of Assisi, because his excellent humor could call his body, fratello asino, my brother, the ass, is really never laughable, though he laughs. The fitness of things is emphasized in the doctrine of the hierarchy of the faculties on which our ra­tionalistic ethics insists. Fitness and in­congruity are poles apart. The David in the Loggia of the Lancers challenges to the development of a strong body; no body is strong unless its every preferred pathway of discharge is in the direction of responsibility. The Moses in the nave of St. Peter in vinculis is the majesty of law; the obedience of strong 
wills is noble freedom. Blessed are we, if we have learned restraint. The cultivation of the reason itself depends often on a cul­tivated will. The success of the university is conditioned by the mastery of the lessons of restraint. "Will is concentration," said John Lancaster Spalding in this university. Genius has been defined as sustained atten­tion and long patience, the patience that will tabulate and compute ten times a thou­sand instances. Research and science are in restraint to fact and principle. As there is the fallacy of uniform method, fine minds lose not sight of the orders of truth nor fail to take into account the different levels of evidence. The careful mind, in close restraint to fact, neither exaggerates nor diminishes the notional content of Eeligion or of Science to produce the occasional sham battle between the truth of God and the truth of fact. Only one kind of thinking is unrestrained. Free-thinking is unrestrained, 
but it is the opposite of science and in direct proportion to ignoi-ance. 
"I write to you, young men, because you are strong. . . ." It is an impelling utter­ance. Life is not a sham battle nor is the \'ictor's crown a bogus one. Knowing the fascination of strength, our spiritual moth­er borrows fi-om an age, worshipful of strength, the blow of knighthood for the ceremony with which she surrounds -the Sacrament of Strength at our initiation into our spiritual manhood. Our age wants action. Much contemporary thought resents dogmas. But the great dogmas are strength and action, for the great dogmas of re­ligion tap the reservoirs of instinctive ac­tion and add the dynamic strength of these to the ideal force of conviction. Greatest of all, for you men of the Great Faith, in your lives is He who is the Life, Who is the vine on which this school grafts you so frequently a scion. Who is constituted in the very neighborhood of the inward man the dri\ang force, the prepotent influence, the strength added to our strength which pre­vails and is not resisted. 
III. 

Speaking of Faith, it is characteristic of the times that I should say a word about reason. The three main doctrines of the common-sense philosophy of the Schoolmen 
(which M. Bergsori has called the natural metaphysics of the human understanding) are individualism, moderation and intel­lectualism. The Bill of Eights in our Con­stitution, a campaign speech starting with economic individualism are vigorous off­shoots of the doctrine of the value of the individual. It is characteristic of its moderation that its logic is both inductive and deductive, that its ethics propounds the compatibility of duty with pleasure, that man is regarded as "a unitary combination of soul and body," that it steers a via media between the extremes within which oscillates the philosophical pendulum. The third doc­trine, that of intellectualism, which asserts that the intellect "reveals the intelligibility of empirical phenomena," can give us gen­uine insight into reality, is a very condition of religion and of faith. The opponents of supernatural religion enthroned a goddess of reason on the altar of Notre Dame. It is an irony of history that within a century the Catholic Church in the Council of the Vatican, fighting the battle of reason, should declare solemnly that the reason is reasonable! The philosophy of the com­mon-sense has been suspect. It is "the chambei-maid of theology." Its conclusions are foreordained. Its intellectual honesty is impugned. Yet there is nothing wonderful about two roads leading to the same des­tination. The ignorant think it an useless vapidity; the less ignorant of it imagine it a logical harmony unfortunately not having its feet on the ground. 
It is not the traditional philosophy of common-sense that has failed to walk hum­bly and solidly. Aristotle had gone humbly from the sensible to the intelligible. It is, however, from Descartes onward that philosophers commenced to go from the idea to reality, as fatal a procedure as that from the idea of a bank account to the issuance of checks. When the principle of causality had been resolved by Hume into succession and the projection of the subjective feeling of efioi-t, the existence of God had become undemonstrable. To have entered the philosophic fray against scepticism and to have been vanquished in the attempt sum­marizes the role of Kant. If the famous Critique of the Pure Reason is a tragedy for the intellect of man, the Critique of the Practical Reason is not a savior of the day. Heine calls it a "farce after tragedy." After Kant,—undogmatic Christianity, agnostic­ism, "the will to believe." This story is well-known. It affords little comfort, and were it the whole story (which it is not) one might not be reluctant, with a famous recent popularizer in his animadversions on 
M. Bergson, to consent to the dethrone­ment of the goddes of reason, provided we are not asked to light a lamp before the icon of intuitionism. 
Now in my judgment herein is the cause why a university is sometimes not a uni­versity. There is no fragment of reality that one may not see, examine, weigh, and measure within a university. The mar­velous advance in science and its useful application for the enrichment of human life have tended to produce a narrow focus. The Doctoi-ate of Philosophy as a research degree because of its narrowness has been the object recently of some severe criticism. Mr. Chesterton talks about everjrthing mat­tering except everything. Perhaps even more in the valleys than on university heights are men so close to the part that they lose the vision of the whole. There is an unwillingness to fit oneself into the uni­versal scheme of things by an effort of the reason. Certain forms of allegiance do, in­deed, carry on by reason of acquired mo­mentum after the convictions themselves, valid or invalid, have ceased to be. Re­ligion is largely a creedless affair. Dogma is in bad odor. Mental flabbiness is much preferred. Spiritual commitments may be useful social hypotheses, they may be satis­fying to the heart, it can not be said that they are heartless, quite the contrary, but they are headless. Surely, great bodies of people have an anti-intellectual set and, if they have a philosophy, it also is character­ized by anti-intellectualism. To oppose the dogmatist, as that word is used odiously, is no argument against a dogma. To oppose the imbecilities of mind is no argument against the intellect. It is fatal to make intelligent man unintelligent; or, as it has been said, "to throw out the baby with the bath." 
Anti-intellectualism has made Christian­ity creedless for masses; it has made Re­ligion godless for those who can see the 
farther conclusions of a premise. It is back of the flippancy which asserts: "Every doctrine is only a point of view;" "Nothing proves anything." How, indeed, can it be otherwise? The conformation of the mind to reality,—that is truth. That is common­sense. The conformation of reality to the mind,—that may be an illusion, that is pragmatism, that is the "will-to-believe," but it is not objective truth. And yet if mind is a failure, if it is inept, as the anti-intellectuals assert, if the head can not be used, there remains but the heart. That is the state, of anti-intellectual philosophy. Instead of the heart following the head, the head must follow the heart. In this in­verted state of things, the will is the source of truth, the useful and the satisfying are its criteria. If reason is bankrupt, we can not, indeed, square judgments by reality and it is all in a point of view. In this inverted state of things, instead of man being de­pendent upon God, God is dependent upon man. Known He can not be. If He is. He is the creature of the human heart. He may be an as-if-he-were-God, but He is not that God who said: I AM WHO AM. Ac­cording to the vagaries of the-passing show, God is "society divinized," the God of evolu­tion, a projection of the mind, or "Space-Time." In this inverted order of things, man, not God, is the standard of the true and the right. Things are not true because they are created after their eternal arch-types in the mind of God, if God Himself 
is a projection of the Human Mind. That He has less to do with the good appears from the free and easy disregard of His law. To make the head follow the heart (which at the least is not intellectually honest), to make God depend on man, God, the creature and man, the Creator, to make man the standard of truth, whether the philosopher calls its subjectivism or flip­pancy, young or old, "only a point of view," is topsy-turvydom, is not common-sense, is not critically-examined common-sense, which is philosophy! 
A psychology in which the mind is the epiphenomenon of the brain lays down a premise from which follows that the end of the brain is the end of the epiphenomenon. A psychology for which our personal con­sciousnesses are but "peepholes" of the ab­
solute, the powerless observers of events within the one real individual, is an affront to the almost universal persuasion of a pluralistic universe. Need any one point out that a psychology without a soul from the point of view of vital human interest makes both religion and faith impossible. With a head that must needs follow the heart, with a religion mthout a God, with psychology without a soul, the terms, of the religious relation, God and the human soul, have dis­appeared. In this state of affairs, exten­sively representative of philosophic think­ing, it is not to be wondered at that read­ing and experience force upon our attention the fact that "we are in the midst of a great period of change when dissatisfaction, general questioning and doubt dominate the minds of large numbers of people." In the midst of complexity and confusion am I wrong when I think that the president of a middle west university has in mind a re­turn to robust, sound, philosophical sense when he confidently states: "First, a renaissance of great teaching is one of the desperate needs of American universities." Neither great teachers nor gi-eat teaching, capable of guidance, interpretation and stimulation, travel up the blind alley of doubt. It has been observed that the athe­ism of our times is gentlemanly with, how­evei*, the none the less damaging result that "God has evaporated." The actual damage is not only to speculative thought, but to practical action. A decade ago the Presi­
dent of the United States wrote notes that spoke of strict accountability. Conjure how inane the correspondence, had the accounta­bility been to an as-if-it-were United States of America. "God is not mocked," but there is no God. "The fool hath said in his heart: There is no God. They are corrupt and are become abominable in their ways. . . ." (Ps. 13). It is God or chaos. Constitutionalists nullify, eugenists breed themselves out, philosophers argue the in­eptitude of reason, ethicians flout principles, religion creates its God, there are con­fusions on confusions, of criticism with iconoclasm, of "tolerance" with mental flabbiness, of the sham-battle between science and religion with real opposition, and over and above it all is heard the voice of flippancy: "Nothing proves anjrthing." 
"Everything is but a point of view." The President of Columbia University selects as a topic for an address: "The Lost Art of Thinking." But that implies that we can think. 
Faith is to reason as a telescope is to the eye. A telescope is superfluous where there is question of a blind eye, but that reason is a blind eye is the verdict of much con­temporary philosophy. While some are perplexed, and yet other some are gone after the new God, "Space-Time," Reason has brought us by the ways of Philosophy and History to the portals of the Temple of Faith. As strangers are naturalized, at our entrance to the Kingdom of God we were supernaturalized. Within an Eagle who has looked into the Sun clutches a scroll: 
"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. . . . 
"And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us. . . . 
"But as many as received Him, He gave them power to be made the SONS OF GOD. . . ." 
Speak not of "a religion of values." Speak not of the indefinite perfectibility of the race. The end is not the humanization of God, but the divinization of man: "consors divinae naturae." Children of the Great Faith, you are not only on the way, but you know whither you are going! 
IV. 

Once at Stratford a rush-candle, looped in such wise that either end pointed upward and might be lighted, was pointed out as explanatory of the phrase: "Burning the candle at both ends." If ever a potential symbol received magnificent interpretation, it was when Benson, in reply to the cau­tion, "You are burning the candle at both ends," flashed back: "What matters it as long as it gives better light!" It needed no resolve to make the looped rush-candle the symbol of Work. We measure the goodness of anything by the standard of achieve­ment. An observation by the author of "My Unknown Chum" is that, alas, many are good, but good for nothing. Strength may be strength as restraint, or strength as courage. Courage is from "currere," im­plying not flight, but glorious pursuit. So glorious is this pursuit that it resembles "perpetual motion." When it does not, there is present the engine of work. On the whole, it is spontaneous. It is curiosity of the mind, the thrill of accomplishment, growth and life. Should enthusiasm cool, there fails not labor, produced by purpose and restraint, to stir the ember into a blaze. I knew a committee of selection which threw in an active curiosity of mind to tilt the balance in favor of two other­wise equal candidates. There are men for whom recognized ignorance is pain, the pain of self-displacency. James pointed out that the fraction of self-complacency can be i-aised by the simple expedient of lessening the denominator, pretensions, as well as by increasing the numerator, accomplishments. Fatal is it for the man who writes the fraction of his self-esteem with the small denominator of narrow outlook, sluggish mentality and slothful performance. For such an one there is contentment, indeed, but not the contentment of a man and a scholai". He never hears the "euge, serve bone" to thrill him with accomplishments. A cheap mediocrity is inevitable in politics, business and domestic life where there is no aspiration toward the perfect. 
We have pointed out that an imwilling­ness to put forth mental eifort in the realm of religion exists. It is an outcome of anti-intellectualism. In the religious field, how­ever, mental inertia may exist along with work an effort absorbed with the fragment which is each man's vocation. Such pre­occupation hinders the noblest attainments of mind as effectually as -a disc, even of gold, held close to the eye, cuts off the vision of the sun. It is just such myopia which retards the coming of God's kingdom on earth. So absorbed with man is society that it passes over God. Large numbers of men seem to have removed from the phylactery of the living consciousness the gi-eater com­mandment of the love of God. "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy whole heart, and with thy whole soul, and with thy whole strength." It is the glory of a Cath­olic university that God is first in knowledge and in love. In that knowledge and in that love do its alumni gi-ow until faith gives way to vision and hope to possession. We have known youths, energetic and noble. 
who quickly passed in the days of their preparation. From the mundane viewpoint, such lives lack rational harmony and com­pleteness, like years that have springs, but not summers nor autumns. They are not luckless. Before them and before us is the greater university with God Himself, Mas­ter and Book. To go on and on, searching the inexhaustible Infinite where are the patterns of real worlds and ideal worlds, worlds that are and can be, to find Infinite being which is Infinite Truth, and not only the fragments which are truths, to labor and to love with labor that knows no pain! But it shall be a Heaven of Work. 
"When I am come to end of days And bid farewell to earthly ways. There is one gift I have to ask of Him Who guides the toil of Seraphim,— The gift of work, more work to do, To let His Glory glimmer through. For well I know that in the Lord More work shall be our work's reward." 
"What matters it as long as it gives bet­ter light" is the high enthusiasm of strong men of the Great Faith. Fields of research need workers such as you, for they are the fields of God. How else achieve an intel­lectual leadership? Literature needs work­ers such as you, for literature is life, but life is God's. How else achieve a moral leadei-ship? Religion needs champions such as you, for beyond the fragments where­with labor the different faculties of this university, you have found the universe and God. How else achieve a spiritual leader­ship? This University gi"ows great in your labors. "Be ye perfect as your Heavenly Father is perfect" is the commandment of work. He is joerfect, we are perfectible. He is "Actus Purus," we are clusters of possibilities. He is Absolute Reality, we shall strive for realization, in the measure of which we shall be godlike. God prosper this University! God prosper its Alumni! May the exhortation of the text which we have chosen, be your finest compliment: "I 
WRITE TO YOU, YOUNG MEN, BE­CAUSE YOU ARE STRONG, AND THE FAITH OF GOD ABIDETH IN YOU, AND YOU HAVE OVERCOME THE WICKED ONE." 
1929 SUMMER SCHOOL 

The eleventh summer session of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame will open Tuesday, June 25, 1929, and continue for six weeks, closing Wednesday, August 7. Gi-aduate and undergraduate courses will be offered by all departments of the College of Arts and Letters and by all departments of the College of Science except Agriculture and Pharmacy. A limited number of courses will also be offered by the College of Law. A few courses in Engineering and Com­merce, of general interest to students in Arts and Science, will be offered as electives commanding credit toward the A.B. and 
B.S. degrees. The courses offered during the summer session are designed to meet the needs of the following groups, men,—^both clerical and lay—and Sisters: (1) undergraduates in this and other universities who desire to secure extra credits or to make up deficien­cies; (2) teachers in private and public schools who are endeavoring to equip them­selves more completely for their work or to secui'e a higher rating from the state cer­tification bodies; (3) persons holding a baccalaureate degree who wish to earn a higher degree in arts or science; (4) per­sons qualified to pursue with profit any course offered. Details can be secured by writing Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C, registrar, Notre Dame. Among the prominent visiting professors this year—a large percentage of the regular faculty will also teach—are: Rev. William Bolger, C.S.C; Sir Carl Busch; Sister M. Eleanore, C.S.C; Glenn Dillard Gunn; Theodore Maynard; Dr. Wilhelm Middel­schulte; Rev. Edwin V. O'Hara; Rev. 
George Sauvage, C.S.C; Richard Seidel, and others equally eminent in their fields. 

COMMENCEMENT PICTURES 
The views on the frontispiece are part of a set of excellent pictures taken by Brother Isidore, C.S.C Any of these views, or sets of campus views can be had. Brother Isidore informs the ALUMNUS, for five cents each. What little he might make, he adds, will go to buy a camera for the Holy Cross Mis­sions in India. 


President Eggemans Message 
To THE ALUMNI: 
Those of us who were so fortunate to be in attendance at the Annual Banquet of the Alumni Association, June 1st, 1929, learned with amaze­ment the fact that our Alma Mater has grown beyond our fondest hopes and expectations. We left the banquet hall with the knowledge that our dear Uni­versity has bestown upon her students the rarest and choicest of gifts and benefits. 
Judging the future of Notre Dame Uni-varsity by the past, Eev. Charles L. O'Don­nell, its President, in his address, gave ex­pi-ession to a slogan that caused the heart of every true alumnus present to swell with pride and beat the faster with admiration and enthused him with a determination to do his part in having the slogan come true. Without lajdng claim to the predictive function of a prophet, the President said: 
"Notre Dame will be the greatest Cath­olic University in the world." 
There can be no fear of the fulfillment of this prophecy. We will attain that exalted position if we intently seek it. No greater acts of heroism or self sacrifice and denial have been performed on battle-fields or in the face of peril and danger than those which have been suff'ered and done by the members of the Congregation of the Holy Cross in the building of our gi-eat University. Their heroic efforts, their sublime sacrifices, their patient endurance and perseverance cry out trumpet-tongued to us to now perform. Their very life blood has gone into the foundation of our be­loved Notre Dame. Blood thus freely and most nobly given can never have been given in vain where Notre Dame alumni are concerned. That blood cries out to high heaven in behalf of the cause for which it was spent and is now being spent and the cry must be heard and will be heard, and will be completely answered. 
The love of an alumnus for his Alma Mater is something sacred, something very tender, and I am convinced that every mem­ber of our Alumni Association will, during the coming scholastic year, manifest that degi'ee of benevolence, aid, and industry which will give the necessary impetus for the speedy fulfillment of the prophecy and the future Notre Dame. 
While the annual meeting of the Associa­tion held in Washington Hall Sunday after­noon was the center of pleasant memories and affections, yet it brought forth the stern reality that there was a deficit of approximately Two Thousand (|2,000.00) Dollars in the Treasui-y of the Alumni As­sociation. The spirit and enthusiasm pres­ent at the meeting is convincing that this deficit will be \viped out and that in the future we shall maintain a surplus. I know that your officers have the full co­operation of the membership, and this appeal at this time is for an immediate liquidation of that deficit. May we depend upon your support? After all, Notre Dame has a strong and noble phalanx of sup­porters among her alumni. They have 
never failed. They shall  not  fail  at  this  
time.  
JOHN  W .  EGGEM AN,  'CO,  
President.  

APPRECIATION 

The ALUMNUS wishes to take this opportunity to express the apprecia­tion of the Alumni Association and the Alumni Office particularly for the generous cooperation of the Uni­versity in extending its hospitality to the hundreds of alumni who returned. Credit in this connection is due es­pecially to the Commencement Com­mittee, composed of members of the administration. Prof. Casasanta of the musical organizations, and Mr. Haley of the Athletic Association, in perfecting the many enjoyable details of the week-end. 


Alfred E. Smith Receives The Laetare Medal 
NOTEE DAME CLUB OF NEW YORK SPONSORS PRESENTATION. 
(Ed. Note: Space does not permit giving the Notre Dame Club the praise it deserves in sponsoring this affair and to set it as an example for other Clubs in the broader development of Notre Dame.) 
A LFEED E. Smith, four times governor ^*' of New York state, and the Democratic nominee for president in 1928, received the Laetare medal from the hands of Patrick Cardinal Hayes, archbishop of New York, in the Plaza hotel, Sunday night, May 5, admitting him to the exclusive company of American Catholics whose contributions to American life have made their names mem­orable. 
Cardinal Hayes bestowed the medal upon Democracy's outstanding figure after the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, president of the University of Notre Dame, had made the presentation of the award in the name of the University, the annual donor. 
A burst of applause and congratulations surrounded the ex-governor. Chief among the messages of congi-atulations was one from President Herbert C. Hoover, who de­feated Mr. Smith in the 1928 presidential race. 
It was addressed to Father O'Donnell: 

My dear Doctor O'Donnell, I have your letter of the 22nd, informing me that the Laetare Medal from the Uni­versity of Notre Dame will on the 5th of May be awarded to Governor Alfred E. Smith. I am glad you have thus given me the opportunity to join in congratulations to Governor Smith for the honor which you confer upon so distinguished an American and to the University for its public spirit in honoring so great a public servant. Yours faithfully, (Signed) HERBERT HOOTOR. 
The Plaza hotel ceremonies for the pre­sentation of the Laetare medal were spon­sored by the Notre Dame Club of New York, and more than 100 alumni and their guests were present. 
There was also a large delegation of 

friends and associates of former Governor 
Smith numbered among the gathering. 
Frank Pierce Pont-Graves, commissioner 
of education of the state of New York, de­
livered an address following the bestowal. 
Mr. Smith was the ninth man associated with public affairs in this country to re­ceive the Laetare medal in the 45 years that it has been the honor given by the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. 
Among other distinguished men of public life who have received the award were Wil­liam Bourke Cochran, Charles J. Bonaparte, Richard Kearns, Maurice Egan, Edward Douglas White, and Admiral Benson. 
In making the presentation of the medal Father O'Donnell said: 
"In the year of Our Lord eighteen hun­dred and eighty-three, the Very Rev. Ed­ward Sorin, priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross, founder and first president of the University of Notre Dame, established the Laetare medal as an award made an­nually to some American lay Catholic who in his particular field of endeavor had achieved such distinction as reflects glory upon the Catholic Faith. The list of men and women so honored in these past 46 years amply illustrates the inspiration which that Faith has brought into all de­partments of thought and of human life,— into philosophy and literature, the arts and the sciences, into the learned professions and into public service, whether in time of peace or in time of war. 
"Sir, this year the University of Notre Dame admits you to the historic and dis­tinguished company of her Laetare medal­lists. Your title to enrollment there is found in your long and honorable public career as a statesman and in the unsullied virtue of your private life, for both of which alike the soundness and sincerity of your Catholic Faith stand out as the mov­ing force and radiant inspiration. As a public servant you have been such a one as could bring his record into the sanctity of his home without fear of violating that sanctuary; as a private citizen you could present such a record of domestic fidelity as might be fearlessly exhibited in the market place or on the hustings, or in the courts of all the world. Public life in America is the more honorable for your having shared it in the high station which you have adorned, and the private life of the simple home-loving citizen is enobled by your example. 
"Therefore the University of Notre Dame, with the single purpose of paying homage to the most worthy of her Faith and na­tionhood, has named you. Sir, as the re­cipient of her most cherished distinction, to which in tui'n the full measure of your deserving will but add new luster. 
"In recognition of signal devotion to Faith and country, in consideration of per­sonal worth as a public official and as a private citizen, the University of Notre Dame asks you, Alfred Emanuel Smith, to accept the Laetare medal for this year of Our Lord, nineteen hundred and twenty-nine. May you wear it into length of days in the serene enjoyment that comes from the consciousness of work well done and in the peace of heart that is the fruitage of that faith in which a man 'has tried to walk humbly with his God.'" 
The President has since received the fol­lowing letter: 
May 15th, 1929. Eev. Charles L. O'Donnell, Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Dear Father: 
I have waited a week to express to you the great joy and satisfaction that came to me, my family and my friends the night of the presentation of the Laetare Medal. 
I have received thousands of letters and telegrams from all over the country and was much pleased to know how many peo­ple shared in the glory. 
I am very thankful to you for your pai-t in it and I am looking forward with pleasure to an opportunity to visit Notre Dame. 
With best ^vishes from all the family, I am. Sincerely yours, (Signed) ALFRED E. SMITH. I 
(Through the efforts of the Notre Dame jj Club of New York the National Broadcast-I ing Company broadcast the presentation / program.) 
Honorary Degrees, 1929 
The University awarded the following lionorary LL.Ds.: 
"To an exempla')')/ Catholic layman, who by his natural ability, energy, and sterling manhood has risen, xmspoiled, from the humble position of messenger boy to the jjresidency of one of the greatest railway systems of the world, Patrick E. Croivley, •of New York City." 
Patrick E. Crowley, president of the New York Central Railroad, was born in 1864. He received a common school education and was married in 1891. He has two sons and two daughters. His career has been one of liard work and steady progress. He has heen successively messenger, telegraph oper­ator, station agent and train dispatcher with the Erie, and Train dispatcher with the N. Y. C. & H. R. R. R., and consecu­tively train master, division superintendent. 
general superintendent, assistant general manager and general manager of the same road. He was the assistant vice-president, vice-president; was federal manager of the Central N. Y. Southern Railroad, Lake Erie & Pittsburgh and N. Y. Central Rail­road during the periods of government con­trol. In 1920 he became vice-president of the N. W. Central Railroad and the Ottawa & N. Y. Railway, St. La\vrence & Adiron­dack Railway, Raquette Lake Railway, Ful­ton Chain Railway, and in 1924 became President of the New York Central lines and the Boston & Albany Railroad. Mr. Crowley is a Catholic and is a prominent club man. He is a resident of Mt. Vernon, 
N. Y., and has offices in New York City. 
"To a college president, a priest who has found the labors of the classroom and of the administrative office an exercise of the highest priestly zeal and influence—the Vei-y Reverend Noj-bert C. Hoff, S.T.B., Ph.D., President of St. Charles' College, Hele'iia, Montana." 
The Very Reverend Norbert C. Hoff, S. 
T.B., Ph.D., President of Mt. St. Charles 
College, Helena, Montana, is a national 
figure in American letters. He is a famous 
educator, a noted lecturer, and a great 
churchman. It is due largely to his ability 
and enthusiasm that Mt. St. Charles Col­
lege today occupies a leading position 
among the educational institutions in the 
Pacific Northwest. 
After the entry of the United States into 
the World War in 1917, Dr. Hoff was par­
ticularly active in the cause of patriotism. 
It was at this time that he organized a 
lecturing campaign that took him into va­
rious sections of the country. 

Dr. Hoff has also distinguished himself in the field of science and is a leading authority in the United States on the sub­ject of botany. 
"To a Zaiyj/er and soldier, ivho has served his country well in high civil position and luith rare international distinction ire the World War as leader of the famous 69th Regiment—Colonel William J. Donovan, of Buffalo, Neiv York." 
Colonel Donovan is a soldier, a lawyer, a Republican and a Catholic. Born in Buf­falo, New York, on January 1, 1883, Colo­nel Donovan has held important political posts in New York state and for the na­tional government. His most important position was the assistant attorney general­ship which he held under Mr. Sargent dur­ing the Coolidge administration. 
During the World War, Colonel Donovan served as assistant Chief of Staff of the 27th Division, A. E. F.; as major of the 51st Brigade; as major of the 165th Infan­try (the old "Fighting SJxty-ninth" of New York), and as lieutenant-colonel of the same regiment. He was wounded three times during the war, and was the recipient of the highest awards for valor that the United States can bestow, the Congressional Medal of Honor, the Distinguished Service Medal, and the Distinguished Service Cross, all for extraordinary heroism in action, be­ing one of the two Americans to receive all three decorations. He also received the Croix de Guerre and was made an officer of the Legion of Honor by France. 
Colonel Donovan received his A.B. degree 

from Niagara and his LL.B. from Columbia. 
His present residence is in Washington, D. 
C. He was engaged as a member of the delegation representing the United States in the Conference between the United States and Canada relative to the customs regula­tions between these two countries in 1923. 
BOXHOLDERS IN NEW STADIUM 
A. R. Erskine, LL.D. '24; H. S. Vance; Paul Hoffman; Ralph Sollitt & Sons; H. S. Badet; Oliver Hotel; G. A. Farabaugh, '04; Howard Edwards, '09; W. A. Mclnerny, '01; American Trust Co.; S. R. Dunnuck; 
W. W. Austin and Geo. Harrison; Edmund 
A. Wills; Union Trust Co.; First National Bank; R. C. Keogan; Lloyd Insurance Co.; Dr. F. R. Clapp; Ira Ciralsky; Max Adler, '89; Joseph D. Oliver, El. '23. 
J. J. O'Brien; Miles O'Brien; Service Ptg. Co. and the Beeler-App Composition Co.; Thad M. Talcott, Jr.; J. M. Stephen­son, '10; F. H. Wellington; 0. A. Clark; J. 
C. Ellsworth; John Nelson Co.; Col. C. A. Carlisle; J. M. Studebaker, Jr.; Wm. S. Moore; R. A. Schaub, '14, and Clarence Bader, '19; J. G. Schaub; Henry Krauss. 
P. F. McFarland (2); Col. George M. Studebaker; George H, Voedisch; Arthur McGrath; K. K. Rockne, '14; William Ben­der, Jr., and Howard Cranfill; Vincent Ben­dix; Herbert Sharlock and W. J. Buettner; Thomas L. Hickey; Harris-Winthrop Co. 
Notre Dame Club of New York; Notre Dame Club of Chicago; Notre Dame Club of Cleveland; Notre Dame Club of Detroit; Notre Dame Club of New Jersey. 
N. M. Griffin; George Maypole, '03; George Wyman Co.; Pat Maloney, '16, and John Stanton, '24; Edward B. Dunigan; 
M. W. McConkey; John P. Edwards; War­ren A. Cartiei", '87; Robertson Bros.; E. J. Kelly, LL.D. '28 (2); John A. Muldoon, Jr., '15; Byron V. Kanaley, '04; Samuel InsuU, Jr.; Premier Engraving Co.; Frank 
E. Hering, '98; Edward H. King. 
E. R. Graham, LL.D. '26; Robert N. Wolf; William Bossingham, '25; J. F. Gush­ing, '06;. Catherine Barker Spaulding; John F. Kent and Thomas L. Grace; M. S. McGurn, J. J. Gorman and P. J. Gallagher; Dr. W. G. McGuire; George M. Graham; Floyd R. Murray. 
T. P. Galvin, '16, and Frank Galvin, '23; 

J. K. Reppa; W. J. Corbett; Ed. A. Garvey & Co.; D. J. O'Connor, '05; Peter J. Ang­sten; W. J. Maloney; Wm. H. Powell; Wil­liam P. Devine, '90; Pat Malloy, '07; Joseph 
C. Smith; Orpheum Theater Co.; G. T. Stanford, '04. 
The sale of boxes in the new stadium has exceeded $200,000. 
l|«^«i^»i 





ATHLETICS 
FRANKLYN E . DOAN 

l^jf^-^m^^m 
BASEBALL One of the most successful baseball sea­sons in the history of the University's ath­letics came to a close on Saturday, June 1, when the Irish defeated the Navy, 6 to 4, at Annapolis. It was the first baseball game ever played between the two schools. Joe Jachym pitched supei-bly for six innings, but developed a sore arm and Johnny Lisicki was called upon to finish. Lisicki, who has been coming to the fr-ont rapidly this year, allowed the Middies only two hits in the three innings he toiled. Previous to the Navy game, the Irish struck a nemesis in the Marshall College nine of Huntington, W. Va., for the south­erners trounced the Notre Dame club, 4 to 3 and 1 to 0 on successive days. In the first game, Marshall led 4 to 1 until the last inning, when Notre Dame staged a game rally which was cut short when Harry Francis was nipped at the plate with the tying run in prospect. Eust and Jachym were the victims of the Marshall batsmen who hit timely and hard in both games. The West Virginians lost but one game out of the 19 they played this spring. Minnesota felt the power of the Irish in a double-header a couple of weeks ago, the Gophers taking the count 18 to 2 and 4 to 2. Notre Dame let up slightly in the second game, after taking the first one by a wide 
margin, and almost allowed the Gophers to even the series. Jachym and Eust pitched. Other games during May found North­western and Michigan State falling before Coach Mills' team, 11 to 5 and 12 to 5, while Illinois slipped one over on the local boys when they shut, them out, 9 to 0. Eust's effective pitching against Coe resulted in a 5 to 0 victory and Jachym's hurling set down the Meiji University nine of Japan, 9 to 6. Lisicki turned in a beautiful game 
against Butler and won, 2 to 0. During the season, the Irish played 26 games, winning 19, losing six and tying one. Indiana held the Irish to a tie late in April in a 10-inning game halted three times by rain. Oskar Eust was signed to 
go with the Minneapolis team of the Ameri­can Association, and Joe Jachym reported to the Philadelphia Athletics. Leo Schrall, of the 1928 team, reported to the Cincinnati Eeds immediately after graduation.' 
The players who are lost to the squad for the 1930 season include: pitchers, Eust, Jachym, and Donahue; infielders, Capt. Colrick, McCIeary, and Griffin; outfielders. Bray and Hart. 
TEACK 

One of the most interesting track meets ever staged on Cartier Field was seen by 2,000 visitors back for the Commencement exei-cises when stars from the Illinois Ath­lestic Club engaged in a special dual meet with Notre Dame athletes. It was the last time that Cartier Field bleachers will be occupied for razing of the stands is already under way, preparatory to the erection of the new stadium. 
The biggest thrill of the meet was pro­vided by Alex Wilson, a gaunt Canadian lad who defeated Niblock of the I. A. C. and Joe Quigley of Notre Dame in a fea­ture half-mile race. Wilson, a freshman now and eligible for competition next year, ran the two laps in 1:54 to break the field record set by Eddie Meehan twelve years ago. Wilson was a member of the Canadian Olympic team last summer. 
Sabin Carr, of Yale, displayed his vault­ing prowess when he soared 13 feet before calling it a day. F. Morgan Taylor, one of the greatest hurdlers the country has ever known, lost a pair of races, the high hurdles to Johnny O'Brien of Notre Dame in :15.1 and the low sticks to Eoy Bailey of Notre Dame in :25. Bailey also broad-jumped 24 feet in an exhibition. 
Capt. Jack Elder performed brilliantly in his last home appearance. Elder ran the hundred in :09.Y to beat Judd Timm of Illi­nois and Wilbur Parks of Drake, who were tied for second, and stepped the furlong in 
:21.7 to beat out Parks. Abernathey, a 
freshman, cleared the bar at 6 feet 2 inches 
in the high jump and Bob Walsh heaved 
the shot 47 feet in a special exhibition. 
The same old story over again! Season tickets are on the market for the three games with Drake, Southern California and Wisconsin, at Soldiers' Field in Chicago, ten dollars ($10) each, sale closes Sei)tember 1. Every season ticket holder can be safely assured good seats! -Applications for the general sale of tickets will be mailed to the alumni the latter part of July. August First is the opening date for receiving applications. Alumni this year will once more be permitted eight (8) seats in the preferred alumni section. 
J. Arthur Haley, business manager of athletics, outlines the situation in alumni preference as follows. One side of the field is practically occupied by the student body and the season ticket holders—that is, between the goal posts. On the other side, beginning at the 50-yard line—note that—and continuing one way until all applications of alumni are filled, the alumni section is set aside. From the 50-yard line going the other way the \asiting team is given the prefei-ence, a general custom it seems. 
In effect, the alumni have one-quarter of the seats between the goal posts. In Soldiers Field this means, however, only about six thousand (6,000) seats. There are 4,500 alumni, with a choice of eight (8) tickets each. Obviously, prompt return of applications is essential. 
The ALUMNUS reminds its readers that the Athletic Association has made an effort to cooperate in every way with alumni, and most of the cases of seats outside the alumni section have been found to be due to late application, failure to accompany application with a check, or to observe some other rule outlined in the application forms. 
Alumni applications will be marked ALUMNI! Make sure of that. Several alumni last year applied on non-alumni forms, and as a result sat in those seats which are left for the general public when the large special sections have been taken out. If you have not received your ALUMNI applications several days before August 1, write the Athletic Association for them. 
PAID-UP ALUMNI will be given first preference, those alumni who have given the five dollars (OR MORE) set by the Alumni Board as the annual dues for 1929-30. So try to get a check for at least five in before August 1, as the list will be sent doivn to the Athletic Association for preference assignment at that time. 
Application blanks are mailed from the same plates as the ALUMNUS. If you get your ALUMNUS you \vill get your applications. If the magazine is going astray, write in noiv. 
It is the intention of the Alumni and the Athletic Associations to give the alumni every possible preference, without sacrificing the good will of the great public that has given such loyal support to the University. This public support benefits the University and in turn the alumni, as consideration will convince you. But you will secure satisfactory cooperation if you will cooperate. 
^he Officers of the ^Association, ig2g-^o 
/CONTINUING a splendid tradition, the 
^^^ Association finds its aiTairs for the 
coming year vested in another capable set 
of officers. The two tickets iDresented by 
the Nominating Committees guaranteed 
that. 
Mark M. Foote, '73, has so much of Notre 
Dame in his make-up, so many years of its 
history in his mind, so much of its idealism 
in his character, and so much of its future 
in his vision, that to describe him to the 
ALUMNUS readers is as difficult as to de­
fine Notre Dame's spirit itself, and as need­
less. 
John W. Eggeman, '00, Fort Wayne, Ind., left no doubt with those present at the an­nual meeting, that the coming year will be an outstanding one. Nor do those who were not present have cause to speculate. Judge Eggeman's interest in Notre Dame has been deep and of long standing. If his presi­dency is but a reflection of his personality, Notre Dame and all connected with it will profit greatly. 
James E, Deery, '10, Indianapolis, the new vice-president, presents the fortunate combination of proximity in spirit and in person. His activities in the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis and in the Knights of Columbus in Indiana have introduced him to problems that guarantee his value as a member of the Board of Directors. 
Walter Duncan, '12, LaSalle, 111., is re­tained as treasurer by the virtues of a discerning constituency and a loyal nature. Walter's job is the most thankless and diffi­cult. He follows in the illustrious footsteps of the veteran Warren Cartier. Suffice it to say that in his early stewardship, he is matching footstep for footstep with his predecessor. 
T. Paul McGannon, '07, New York City, is a welcome newcomer on the Board of Di­rectors, succeeding the late Joseph M. Haley, '99, whose unfulfilled term expired this year. Mr. McGannon is a prominent attorney in New York City, was very active as an un­dergraduate, and knows Notre Dame with the knowledge that is of most value to members of the Board. 
Don Hamilton, '12, Columbus, Ohio, whose administration of the past year has begun those projects which, if realized, will make the Association a worthy power in the de­velopment of Notre Dame, becomes ex offi-
JoHN W. EGGEMAN, '00 . 
cio a member of the Board during the next year, to contribute his valuable experiences as president to that group. 
Al Ryan, '20, Detroit, former Alumni Secretary; George M. Maypole, '03, Chicago, and M. Harry Miller, '10, continue to act in their valuable capacities as members of the Board. As pointed out by Mr. O'Shaughn­essy at the meeting, the Board is now a working body, and its members have con­tributed much of time and thought, and are deserving of much credit. 
James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, continues as Alumni Secretary and Editor of the Notre Dame ALUMNUS. 

* 


THE ALUNNI 
* —.* 
Sudden Death Takes Science Dean 
(ED. NOTE: So much material must be crowded into this issue that the usual Club and Class information is omitted. Begin­ning with September, a larger edition of the ALUMNUS will appear and the Editor then hopes to be able to give full space to the many fine activities of the individuals and the groups who are living Notre Dame in the world at large. The following notes are the vital statistics, and the interesting names of those persons you missed seeing by not attending Commencement.) 
FR. ALBERTSON DIES 

One of the most popular and beloved Priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross, the Eev. George William Albertson, C.S.C., Ph.D., died suddenly at the University In­fii-mary on the night of June 7th. Father Albertson had been unwell since Commence­ment and went to the Infirmary, apparently for minor cause. A number of his priest friends had been visiting with him before his death, and had found him in ex­cellent spirits and seemingly improved in health. They had left the Infirmary only a short time, when they were summoned back to administer the last rites of the Church and to be with their friend and con­frere when he died. An acute heart attack, brought on by indigestion was the cause of his death. 
The deceased was born near Kalamazoo, Michigan, Oct. 1, 1886. He attended the parochial school there, and, after complet­ing high school work, went to Kalamazoo Normal and the University of Michigan, before coming to the University of Notre Dame in 1912. He graduated from the Uni­versity in 1914, and, after spending a year in the Novitiate, went to Washington to complete his studies in theology, being or­dained to the priesthood in June, 1919. After ordination, he returned to the Cath­olic University at Washington to continue his studies in bacteriology, receiving a de­gree of Doctor of Philosophy,. 1921, The following September, he was assigned to the College of Science at the University, where he acted as Professor of Botany and Bac­
teriology, which position he held up to his death. For the past two years, he has also served as Dean of the College of Science, and Secretary of the Committee on Gradu­ate Studies. 
During his administration as Dean of the College of Science, the excellent scholastic standard of that College was maintained, and very interesting research studies were made in all departments. He, too, con­tributed to this research by his own in­dividual work, and, at the time of his death, was just completing a very constructive ex­periment in bacteriology. He was largely responsible for the development of the Com­mittee on Graduate Studies, of which he had been Secretary for four years. His 
i J 
I This page is made possible by I 
i f 



j The Notre Dame Club | 
I -of-I I Fort Wayne, Indiana 
—a—m—m-^m— 

JOHN W. EGGEMAN 
ATTORNEY 
ATTORNEY 
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 
=--.-=-= =—-= I 

WILLIAM P. BREEN 
BREEN & NEWARK, ATTORNEYS 
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 
1 
I  HARRY G. HOGAN  FRANK  M. HOGAN  |  
j  HOGAN & HOGAN  |  
I  LAWYERS  »  
1  FORT WAYNE, INDIANA  f  
—w^—w—«i  ^w - «  I  
•  I  
1  FRANK J. GILMARTIN  EDWARD T. GiLMARTIN  j  

j GILMARTIN LUMBER CO. | 
i FORT WAYNE, INDIANA » I i 
1 _^^_„^^^.,^HI^_Hi__MI—.W—HI^—IM^—•§—a—W^—W^—W—M—M^—"i^—W^—W^—W^—"i^—M—"-^"i^—M^—"i-^"^—W^—•—•— I 



! ROBERT K. GORDON I 
1 ATTORNEY f I 1 f FORT WAYNE, INDIANA . I 
! i 
genial and happy disposition endeared him to both faculty and students. He was greatly interested in the young men of the College of Science, as well as those of Badin Hall, and assisted materially in the develop­ment of the religious program at the Uni­versity. His death is a distinct loss to the field of science, as well as to the Univex-sity and the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Funeral services were conducted Monday, May 10, in Sacred Heart Church, a Solemn Requiem Mass, preceded by the impressive Office of the Dead. Father Albertson was buried in the Community cemetery. He is sur\'ived by several brothers and sisters, residents of Kalamazoo. 
WILLIAM O'BRIEN, '92, Eden Valley, Minn., died there Friday, May 24, after a few hours' illness. Death resulted from heart disease. Mr. O'Brien was born in Galena, 111., in 1869. Following his course at Notre Dame he went to Eden Valley in 1893 and was editor of the Eden Valley Journal for 30 years. He was also post­master of the community for 24 years, serving in that capacity under six adminis­ti-ations. A widow and five children sur­vive him. He was buried in Eden Valley on Tuesday, May 28. 
CHARLES SPRINGER, '28, Bellaire, 0., former captain and coach of the Notre Dame boxing team, died June 4 in Chatta­nooga, Tenn., according to word received from there as the magazine goes to press. His body was sent to Bellaire, 0., where burial occurred June 10. No details were available. Springer was a graduate of the College of Law and well known on the campus. 
The ALUMNUS regrets very much the reporting of an unusually sad death, that of ANDREW JAMES HANHAUSER, only son of A. J. HANHAUSER, '97, 3641 N. 21st St., Philadelphia. The young man was to have entered Notre Dame in the Fall, realizing the ambition of his father since his birth. The boy died on May 29th after a ten days' illness of pneumonia. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL FUNK, '24, an­nounce the arrival of Joanne Marie on May 22, in Elgin, 111. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRED CLEMENTS, '26, 
are the parents of a daughter, Betty Lou. 
Fred is practicing law with his father in 
Owensboro, Ky. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, 
'25, announce the birth of John Elliott Arm­
strong in South Bend, May 15. 
MARRIAGES 
Mr. and Mrs. John Andrews announce the marriage of their daughter Alma to PETER RICHARD KENEFICK on Tues­day, June 4, at Dell Rapids, South Dakota, where the couple will be at home after August 15. 
The wedding of Miss Josephine Lewis and JOHN P. McGOORTY, JR., '24, son of Judge John P. McGoorty, was solemnized May 13 at St. Ambrose Church, mth His Eminence Cardinal Mundelein officiating. A reception and breakfast followed at the South Shore Country Club. THOMAS LONG, a classmate, was the best man, and the ushers included JOHN LONG, Francis McFadden, JOHN C. BULGER, STEPHEN McPARTLIN, JAMES LEWIS, Austin Clar and Harry Fitzgerald. 
Mr. and Mrs. John Francis Cullinan an­nounce the marriage of their daughter, Frances Eleanore to JAMES PURCELL SWIFT, '24, on Wednesday, June 5, Sacred Heart Cathedral, Dallas, Texas. Mr. and Mrs. Swift will be at home at 4133 Prescott Ave. after July 1. 
Miss TiUie Fountain and FRED RUIZ, '28, were married on June 2 in St. Gene­vieve's Church, Las Cruces, New Mexico. 
Miss Louise Sattler and FRANK DONO­VAN, '28, were married in Loretto Chapel, St. Mary's, Wednesday, June 5. The bride was a St. Mai-y's student, and Mr. Donovan is in South Bend with the Bantam Ball Bearing Company. 
The first post-graduation marriage of the Class of '29 took place the morning after Commencement when Miss Marion Daniels, of San Diego, Calif., and WIL­LIAM DONELAN, '29, of Ottumwa, Iowa, were married by Rev. Walter Lavin, C.S.C, in Sacred Heart Church. Revs. James Burns, C.S.C, and Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, were in the sanctuary. CHARLES J. RIHN was best man for Mr. Donelan. The couple will live in San Diego. 




CAMP ROCKNE 
A Summer Camp for Boys 
WINTER, WISCONSIN - ON HUNTER LAKE JUNE 28 - EIGHT WEEKS - AUGUST 23 
and 

Two four weeks periods. 
JUNE 28-JULY 26 a?td JULY 27-AUGUST 23 
EXPERT INSTRUCTION IN: 

Swimming, Canoeing, Baseball, Football, Basketball, Volleyball, Tennis, Track and Horseman­ship, Woodcraft ^W Nature Work. 


SUMMER SCHOOL ^W TUTORING 
(Affiliated Summer School of Pio Nono High School, Milwaukee. Authorized credits in Primary and High School Subjects.) 
DIRECTOR (and Chaplain): Rev. John J. O'Boyle, M.A., Pio Nono High School, St. Francis, Wis., (Near Milwaukee). 
ATHLETIC DIRECTOR: Thomas J. Lieb, M.A., Asst. Football and Track Coach, of Notre Dame; Graduate of Boy Guidance Course, University of Notre Dame. 
Three resident Priests and two Physicians. 
Address Inquiries to: REV. J. J. O'BOYLE, Pio Nono H. S., St. Francis, Milwaukee, Wis. 
Chicago Office: 
M.A.DWYEE,166SE.79thSt. Phones jlJ^taSTZme ) 
1897 
Eev. John A. MacNamara. 



jALLERTON 
I Club Residences 
I Headquarters for i 


1 NOTRE DAME MEN I 
m 

New York - Chicago Cleveland 
I WEEKLY EATES TRANSIENT EATES J I ?12.00 to §22.00 ?2.50to$3.50 j 
EXECUTrV^E OFFICE: 285 Madison Ave., New York 
* 

PERSONAL 

You inissed seeing the folloiving men if you missed Commencement. 
1873 Mark M. Foote. 1880 Dr. J. B. Berteling, Francis Wall. 1883 Eobert M. Anderson, F. E. Kuhn. 
1887 Warren Cartier. 1888 
J. A. Burns, C.S.C., J. L. Heineman. 
1889 Wm. O'Donnell, Wm. P. Devine. 
1890 John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. 1894 Dr. Frank J. Powers. 
1895 
Martin Schnur. 1896 
T. Crumley, C.S.C. 
1898 
Timothy Harrington, Charles N. Girsch. 
1899 

Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C, J. A. Nieuw­land, C.S.C. 
1900 

Wm. N. Bergan, Francis O'Shaughnessy, John W. Eggeman. 
1901 
W. A. Mclnemy, George J. Marr, C.S.C. 
1903 

Matthew Walsh, C.S.C, L. J. Carrico, C.S.C, Vitus Jones, H. V. Crumley, Eobert 
E. Lynch, George Maypole. 
1904 
John M. Quinlan, Thomas J. Jones, Frank 

X. Ackerman, E. E. Proctor, G. A. Fara­baugh, F. H. McKeever, Byron Kanaley, Grattan Stanford, T. J. Swantz, M. D., Eev. Maurice Griffin, Emiel De Wulf, C.S.C 
1905 
Daniel O'Connor. 
1906 

Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, Charles L. Doremus, C.S.C, J. W. Mclnerny. 




Welcome Alumni 
HOTEL LASALLE and ANNEX South Bend's Newest and Best Hotels 

N. D. Headquarters 

Warner Public Library, Tarrjtotim, N. Y. Walter D. Blair, ArchitecL Ernest 
L. Smith Construction Co., BuiUers. Built of Select Qray Indiana limestone 


Buildings to be Proud of 
T
HE all-stone exterior, so much ad­mired, is not prohibitively expensive. New methods and large scale production of Indiana Limestone make this beautiful, light-colored natural stone so moderate in cost that there is usually no reason why it cannot be used. 
Let us send ^'•ou our illustrated booklet showing examples of school and collegiate buildings of the better tj'pe. Many trim as well as all-stone buildings are shown in its pages. A reading of this booklet will give you a clear picture of what is being done the country over in college buildings. For the booklet, address Dept. 823, Ser­
Detail, New York Academy of Medicine, 
vice Bureau, Bedford, Indiana. Neiv York City. York & Sawyer, Architects. 
INDIANA  LIMESTONE  COMPANY  
Qeneral  Offices:  Bedford, Indiana  Executive  Offices:  Tribune Tower, Chicago  
Name  Address  :_  

1907 

Rev. Wm. H. Molony, Dominic J. Can­non, C.S.C, Wm. A. Draper, Vy. Rev. J. Donohue, C.S.C. 
1908 
Rev. P. Miller, C.S.C, Jose A. Caparo. 
1909 

P. J. Haggei-ty, C.S.C, J. F. Hines, Paul R."Mai-tin, Albert F. Gushurst. 
1910 

D. A. Kelly, James E. Deery, P. E. He­bert, C.S.C, M. Harry Miller, M. L. Mor­iarty (Rev.) 
1911 
Wm. A. Carey, C.S.C, Pedro de Landero, 

J. F. McElhone, C.S.C, Charles C Miltner, C.S.C, Edward L. Figel, Francis J. Wen­ninger, C.S.C, Fred Steers, P. J. Carroll, C.S.C. 
1912 

Don Hamilton, John A. Devers, C.S.C, Walter Duncan, Marcellus M. Oshe, F. L. Mendez. 
1913 

John C Kelley, C.S.C, Brother Florence, C.S.C, Lester Livingston. 
.—.—.4. 
s 

St. Joseph Mineral Baths 
MT. CLEMENS, MICH. 
A good place to rest and build f up your health, or to enjoy your ? vacation. J 
I 
ST. JOSEPH HOSPITAL 100 Bed Hospital MT. CLEMENS, MICH. 
Under the Auspices of I 

THE SISTERS OF CHARITY j 

I Here is a Real Out West Outing-
THE INDIAN-DETOUR 
GRAND CANYON 

I COLORADO ROCKIES 
I CALIFORNIA 
I 
I Santa Fe daily Far West Xcursions— 
I this summer—offer you a vacation at 
\ very reasonable cost—either individ-
I ually or by escorted all-expense tours. 
I 
I May I send you details? 
f 
I E. P. FISHER, Gen. Agent, Santa Fe Ey. 
1 311 Merchants Bank Bids., Indianapolis, Ind. 
' Phone: Riley 3077 
1 
ij» ^^•l-^BI—W^—Hi^—BI-^M^—M^—W^—•i'^—«•——M—1«^—K^— 
.1 
1914 

Frank Hayes, Andrew Schreyer, C.S.C, Knute Eockne, Rt. Eev. Msgr. Francis H. Gavisk. 
1915 

James E. Sanford, Joseph Pliska, Mark Duncan, J. S. Malkowsld, Wm. J. Shea, K. Healy, C.S.C. 
1916 

J. H. O'Donnell, C.S.C, E. Mooney, CS. C, Dr. Edward C Eyan, F. J. Hiss, Ward Perrot, Timothy Galvin. 
1917 

M. A . Mulcaire, C.S.C, Eev. M. Early, C.S.C, Eev. W. McNamara, C.S.C, Leo O'Donnell, Daniel Hilgartner, Jr., Fred Mahaffey, Bernard Veil, Joseph F. Flynn. 
1918 
Bernard D. HefFeran, F. J. Hurley. 
1919 
Ray T. Miller, George D. Haller, Eev. P. 

U. Beaghan. 
1920 

John T. Balfe, Leo G. Kerver, Eev. J. Eyan, C.S.C., Paul C. Conaghan, Eev. J. W. Connerton, C.S.C, E. J. Meehan, James H. 
Brennan, Eugene O'Toole, Sherwood Dixon, Frank Farrington, Albert Uebbing, John Powers, Maurice O'Shea, V. F. Fagan, Leo 
L. Ward, C.S.C. 1921 
P. J. McDonough, Jr., Alexander Colgan, Jack Higgins, Callix Miller, Norm Barry, D, J. Carr, Walter Sweeney, George C. Sanders. 
1922 

Frank C. Blasius, Jr., Wilfred T. Dwyer, Gerald A. Ashe, Phil Dant, J. S. Foren, Al Slaggert, Aaron Huguenard, Clinton J. Lintz, Jim Murtaugh, L. J. McGarty, James 
R. McCabe, E. S. Dickens, T. S. McCabe, Cyril B. Fites, Eugene Smogor, Leo A. Ma-honey, Mark A. Foote, George P. Heneghan. 
1923 Raymond M. Murch, C.S.C, Frank Wal­lace, Joseph Casasanta, John Niemiec, W. 
E. Shea, E. M. Keegan, J. P. Chapla, Lyle 
E. Miller, Dan Lynch, Felix McCullough, J. Stanley Bradbury, John Montague, Richard Nash, Rev. J. McAllister, T. G. Randall, 
R. E. Cordray, Walter Rauh, F. J. Breen, Henry J. Lauerman, J. Rohrbach, Edward Gould, Wm. F. Furey, E. Merlin Rolwing, 
R. J. O'Brannigan, C.S.C, Eugene M. HineSi Tom Lieb, Elmer Collins, John C. Norton, John R. Flynn, John G. Byrne, Paul Castner, Harry Flannery, Frank T. Fitzsimmons, Louis V. Bruggner, Ed. P. Kreimer, Bernard B. Foley, A. J. Diedrich, Frank J. Galvin, L. R. Smith. 
1924 

H. B. Stillman, John P. McKenna, Tim­othy J. Murphy, W. Harold Welch, F. J. Dufficy, Walter J. Stapleton, Richard B. Gilfoyle, Charles A. McAllister, C.S.C, Walter Moran, Edward J. Huether, Mark 
G. Kreutzer, Eugene Mayl, J. Farrell John­ston, James R. Meehan, Joe Rick, C.S.C, Tom Donovan, James Cooke, Charles Molz, Charles De Barry, Newell De Gurse, Nor­man Feltes, Richard Griffin, Frank J. O'Boyle, Frank Piecarski, Ray Hoyer, Leo Heringer, J. Henry Fannan, John R. Petrich, Paul J. Kennedy, E. B. Miller, John Uebbing, Ray Kohin, James F. Hayes, Joe C Ryan, E. F. Noon, J. D. Kevill, T. E. Gordon, Francis X. Egan, Edward B. Carey, Edwin J. Buckley, Robert Glascott, 



THE OSBORN ENGINEERING CO. 
7016 EUCLID AVE. CLEVELAND. OHIO 

ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS 
Stadi

lums 

Grandstands Athletic Fields 
TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE 
Twenty-three Stadiums and Athletic Fields Thirteen Baseball Parks Five Fair Qround Grandstands 
WE WILL BE GLAD TO FURNISH REFERENCES 
-JOHN HANCOCK SERIES ­





A PROBLEM for HOME MAKERS 
Is the management of The Family Income. 
O
UR HOME BUDGET SHEET is designed to cover one month's record of income and outgo. 
It is an Account Sheet for both the Beginner and the Budget-wise. 
Sent FREE on request. 
Inquiry Bureau 
LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY^ 
OF BOSTON. MASSACHUSETTS 
197 Clarendon St., Boston, Mass. Please send me FREE copy of the John 
Hancock Home Budget Sheet. (I enclose 
2c. to cover postage.) 
Name-Address 
A.G. 
OVER SIXTY^IX YEARS IN BUSINESS 

Raymond Lang, Clifford Noonan, W. J. Connors, E. J. McLellan, John Rafferty, Paul A. Lautermilch, Harold L. Londo, George L. Reardon, F. M. Meyer. 
1925 

John P. Hurley, Jr., Brother Norhert, C. S.C, Edward Cuddihy, Jr., George F. Dris­coll, Bernie Finnigan, Brother Neil, C.S.C, 
J. D. Collins, Wm. H. Braunsdorf, Jack Scallan, Frank Naughton, Gerald Holland, 
C. L. Baumgartner, E. Polhaus, C. Bunce, Ray de Courcey, Joe Toolen, G. J. Coty, Ray Cunningham, Ralph M. DeGraff, Clar­ence W. Harding, J. Willard Jones, Charles Collins, Francis CuUen, N. A. Clancy, Paul 
J. Dooley, Maurice Boland, Paul L. Kohout, Vincent A. Schuh, C. P. Hafel, Jerome F. Herlihy, Pat Hyland. 
1926 

John B. Leahy, W. L. Foohey, John J. Ryan, John T. Griffin, E. W. Mahoney, Wm. 
R. Barr, Hal Krauser, G. H. Dolmage, Forest J. Swartz, J. Bailey, Frank G. Bolger, R. A.- Goepfrich, Mark E. Mooney, Claude Johnson. 
1927 

Hugh L. Campbell, Brother Gordian, C.S. C, Emmett Madden, Wm. H. McCullough, Julius McCoy, Alban Smith, Albert L. Doyle, Stephen Ronay, B. P. Maloney, C. 
A. Matthes, R. L. Halpin, J. J. Halpin, Thomas B. Dunn, Robert L. Gavin, S. T. Berner, M. P. McDermott, Wm. J. Coyne, 
R. M. Snyder, Wm. H. Walters, James A. Jones, Wm. P. Clarke, Jr., Paul Butler, M. Albert Henry, Malcolm Hatfield, F. M. Cawley, James H. Coogan, Bill Finucane. 
1928 

E. K. Moriarty, Mr. Raymond Lawler, Andrew J. Boyle, W. Toussaint, John Rob­inson, Wm. B. Jones, Stephen J. Wozniak, 
F. H. Strohm, John F. Frederick, Dave Krembs, George Coury, J. Canizaro, R. C. Leahy, Charles Schuessler, Howard Phalin, Vincent P. Ducey, H. P. Davies, John Wal­lace, P. Beemsterboer, F. P. McCarthy, James Boehning, Pearl L. Moore, John A. Mullen, William A. Murphy, Wm. F. Cro­nin, John F. Larsen, Leo B. Fettig, Edward 
P. McGuire, Silvin Duba, Robert Knox, 
Spalding Golf Shoes have but one pur­pose in life. They are golf shoes— not dolled-up street shoes. Back of evei-y pair of Spalding Golf Shoes is 39 years' experience making athletic shoes . They give you "old shoe" com­fort from the start. And styled to get respectful attention without scream­ing. Most models—$10. Others— $12 and $15. 

$!(^ >^<^^5r 

1 105 Nassau St. 518 Fifth Ave. 1 
I NEW YORK I 
I Stores in All Larc/e Cities. \ 
I i 
THE NOTRE DAIME ALUMNUS 
John Worden, Edward J. Conlin, Burt E. Toepp, Laurence Wingertei-, Eaymond J. La Pointe, John F. Leitinger, Jr., James T. Morrissey, Eay A. Worden, Bob Mohlman, Jack Doyle, Richard Elpers, E. Floyd Searer, Harold W. Euppel. 
I trust that the '28 men who were bacli for Gradu­
ation will furnish most of the news this month, but 
here arc a few notes whcih I know will interest you. 
BILL ICIRWAN after opening a new Jlontgomery 
Ward Retail Store in Davenport, Iowa, last month, 
has now been transferred to LaCrosso, Wisconsin. I 
saw Bill last month in Davenport and he said to say 
hello to the gang for him. 
BOB HAMILTON has been sick with scarlet fever 
for the past month but we hope that he is back on 
Wall Street by this time. Bob was a member of 
the N. Y. A. C. team that won the Eastern A. C. 
championship, so he is now possessor of one of the 
sold basketballs which were presented to the winners. 
JOHN WINBERRY is President of the Freshman 
Class at the Fordham Law School and also Assistant 
Registrar of the Fordham School of Sociology. GUS 
JENKINS is with Dresser & Fisher, stock brokers 
in New York City. CHARLES RUFFER is also 
there in the banking game. 
I had a. note from WALT LAYNE from 456 River­
side Drive, New York City. Walt says that his 
roomie, JIM CONMEY, has declined the offer he had 
from Fashion Park clothiers to become a model. I 
was glad to hear that their room continues to be a 
hang-out for those who like to talk about the good 
old times. I hope to be able to chime in on a few 
of the sessions this summer. 
BOB EVANS, according to the Santa Maria, is Lecturer of the Vicksburg IC. of C. Council. Bob works in his father's lumber yard in his spare mo­ments. MAC McMAHON is kept busy supplying the Evening Times of Towanda, Pa., with news. FRANK HOLDAMPF is in Milwaukee making good use of his engineering knowledge. CHARLEY SHORT is located in Blairsville, Pa., and is in the architectural business there. 
Our friend FATHER GALUGAN tells me that he has heard from "MAC" McGAULEY and that he is getting along very well with Swift & Co. in Chicago. Mac's address is ]50o N. Dearborn Parkway. Mac sees JOE GRIFFIN and McSWEENEY quite often. Joe is with the Crane Co. and taking law evenings. McSWEENEY is with Sears Roebuck in the adver­tising department with JOE BRANNON. 
I had a very newsy letter from GEORGE BYRNE from 295 St. John PI., Brooklyn. George is daily pursuing the goddess of architecture at Columbia. Beorge tells us that ED. BRENNAN is with a AVall Street firm of stock brokers. AL. DUFFY is taking spring training in preparation for the bar e.xams with the firm of Larden, Andrews & McNaughton. Lots o' luck, Al. George said that he found JOHN STEWART hale and hearty on a recent visit to Rochester. DON CORBETT, according to George, i» kept rather busy between his work at the Albany Law School and the attractions of the femininity of the Capitol. 
George was asking about JOE LANGTON. I 


Hello, Fellows! 
When in need of hotel service, let me serve you at 




«iiia 

Cooper -Carlton Hotel Hyde Park Blvd. at 53rd St. CHICAGO 
400 EOOMS : 400 BATHS 
American League Headquarters 
Home of the Crystal Ballroom 
F. H. SWEENEY, IVLVNAGER 
Notre Dmne ' 

A. N. MAHEE, AssT. MANAGER 
Colorado School of Mines 

haven't heard fr<tni ,Ioe. but according to reports from Peoria -loe is climbinir the bidder very fast witli Goo<iyear Tire & Rubber Co. The Peoria branch of Goodyear has been made a i>arent branch over all other branch offices in Illinois, so .Joe is now Credit Manaiier with the whole stjite to cover, so evidently he is kejit too busy to write. 
I received a pa.are of notes bubblinjr over with news from some straniro New York bird who failed to make his identity known. Possibly he feared to si^'e his name because of the possibility that \>'iu mi^bt ask my resi.2:n:itinn and his appointment as Secre­tary when you see how interestins class notes can be made. Here they are in a peppy, breezy. Broad­way style: 
Since the fleet has left the Hudson, LARRY 

•MUGGLER" CULLINEY has on his list gobs of smart jrirls who were recently .e:irls of smart probs. . . . .TDIMIE ".TOE SIZZLE" CONMEY rate<l a Lucky burn from a fcnime who went nuts over him at an Astor dance recently. . . . FRANK BR.VNSON says that the recent General Motors CNporter's lunch­eon recalled the .srisffle water days in old St. .loe. . . . RED CONNERS and TOJI NOON now call Manhattan home. . . . .TACK WINGERTER. who shook hands with -Vl Smith at the Plaza, e.\pects to shake hands with his employer. Harry Sinclair, in about three months. . . . FR.XNK REILLY is now !ivin.tr out where you can see the Sound and hear the sea. . , . EDDIE BRENN.\N thoufrht those who kicked at the New York dinner were jilenty O. K. . . . EDDIE JIcCORM.-\.CK, who snoops to con<iuer, fell down on two important assignments lately. . . . 
.JOHN McMAHON'S first yarn for the New York Sun rated the front page. . . . GEORGE BYRNE goes to Rochester on week ends but not to see Mr. Eastman. .. . If you want to meet most of the .Jersey mob any Saturday evening just hike over to the Child's near the station in Newark. . . . AI. DUFFY sees all the big shows with a '27 man. . . . VIC ZIMMERMAN is hiding somewhere in Brooklyn. . . . BERNIE GARBER clicked Fvriutiirc World, a trade publication. . . . ADRIAN LOPEZ is thinking of taking Greeley's grumblings seriously. . . . FRANK KELLEY lunches in John Street daily. . . . AR.T DENCHFIELD is having passport photos made. . . . Most of the 116th division attends the noonday mass Sundays at the Cathedral of Notre Dame on Morn­ingside Drive. . . . General Motors claims TOM COLLINS. . . . "BLACK JACK" MURPHEY is in the insurance racket here. . . . WALLY LAYNE and a large publishing house are on the verge of merging. . . . You'll find AL MAKER on Hick Street in Brooklyn. . . . Arthur Murray rejected CONNIE 
OCHOA'S latest dance creation. . . . PAUL BRUST studies diligently at Columbia. . . . JIM HARTLEY and VIC FISHER were prominent at the Universal Notre Dame night dinner at the Interfraternity Club. .. . So was EDDIE BURKE. . . . AL TAYLOR isn't trying out for the Fordham baseball team. . . . It's a blonde for ART STENIUS and they're happily married and living on 112th Street. . . . JACK L.A.VELLE and BILL KELLEY are seen on the Van Courtland golf course regularly. . . . This is the story of twenty-eight men of the '2S class now living in Bagdad on the Subway. 

Local Alumni Clubs 
NOTKK DA.MIC CLUU OF AKRON. OHIO Frank .-^teel, '27t. TA" Stratford Ave., President .lolm Hcttlii's. "21, •l.'iT K. Buehtel Ave, Sec. 
NOTK1-; D'AJII-: CLIIJ OF AKICVNS.VS Kcv. George F. X. Strassnor, '14. Hope, Pre.s. Warren Baldwin, 'i:;, 2-121 Louisiana St., Little l;ock, Secrel:iry. 
NOTKK T).\MK CLUH OF HUFFALO Dr. It.il.or: .1. Burn.e. '17. 4.'> .Mloii St., PrfSiilelU. Ci.rdnii I'M-imett. '27, 722 rrosiieii Ave.. Sec. 
XO'I'ItK I).V.-\Ii: ( I.VIi OF BOSTON Hugh Blunt. '24. Barristens Hall, Pemberton S-'iuare, President. Dr. .lames J. Lynch, '1,"). 270 Commonwealth .\ve., Secretary. 
NOTHK DAME CLUI5 OF CHICAGO John \v. Costello, '12, Room 1101, ISO w. W.-i.sh­ington. President. Frank T. Fitzsiminons, '20, 7013 Ridge Ave, Secretary. 
NOTKE D.V.'ME CLUB OF CALU.^IE'r ItEGlON 
Hugh ]•:. I'^arroll, 'in, U.S. National Bank BIdg., East Chicago. Ind.. President. 
W. R. Doolev, '2n. N. I. Pub. Service Co., Hammond, Secretary. 
NOTKE n.V.ME CLITR OF CLEVELAND l-'ugene Kane. '14, 14(i2 Ijincoln Ave., Pre.s. Fred Joyce, '10, Asst. Mgr. -Mlerton Club, .Sec. NOTKE 1).\ME CH;iJ OF CINCINNATI 'J. C. MoHugh. '00. P. O. Box 4 20, President. 
L. V. DuBois, o. s. •!.-.. Fredk. Schmidt Co., Fifth and Main Sts.. Secretary. 
NOTKE n.VME CLLIt OF CENTKAL OHIO Raymond J. Eichenlaub, 'I.T, Ho.sier Realty BIdg., Columbus, President. 
F. X. Finiioran, G15 West Chapel St., Columbus, Secretary, 

NOTKE D.VME CLUB OF THE CONNECTICUT V.VLLEY William J. Granfleld, '13. State Bldg., 1200 Main St.. Springfield. Mass., President. .Tames A. Curry. '14, 70,". .A.sylum Ave,, Hart­
ford, Conn,, Se<-retary. 
NOTKE U.UIE CLUB OF DAYTON" Joseph B. Murphy, '11, 309-15 Mutual Home Rldg., President. .1. Farrell Johnston, '24, 49 Shaw Ave., Sec. 
NOnt E DAJIE CI^rB OF DENVER Pavid ITickey, '2S. 1.".1.T Grant St.. President. 

O. L. Hough. '27, l.=)7.i Race St.. Secretary. NOTKE D.AjnC CLUB OF DETROIT Harry Kelly, '17. 2428 First Natl. Bk. Bldg., President. Charles JIolz. '24, Detroit News, Secretary. NOI'KE D.VME CLUB OF 1)ES MOINES John "^\^ Newman, '9S-99 3C07 Ingersoll Ave., 
President. Karl F. Walsh. Des Moines Cath. Col., See. 
NOTRE D.VJrE CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLU.AIBf.A Dr. J. .v. Flymi, El. '12. l.ill R. 1, Ave., N. W.. 

"Wasliington, Pre.'^ident. William M. Galvin, '14, Navy Leagruo, Wash­ington, Socretar.v. 
NOTKE DAJIE CLUB OF FOX KIVEK A'ALLFV .Tolin V. Diener, '09, 735 S, Quincy St., Green 
Bay, President. John Gallagher, o. .«., '25, Shawano, Secretary. 





