The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

The Notre Dame 
ALUMNUS 
Vol. 22 JUNE, 1944 No. 5 
3,000 Acuud ^nMHeel an AaUe ^ame Cc 
Standing at attention on the mall in front of the Rockne Memorial on the Notre Dame campus are the 3,000 young men of the naval training stotion at Notre Dame as they appeared this spring from a plane of the Civil Air Patrol. In the foreground are the mid­shipmen who were commissioned as ensigns May 31. Directly behind them are members of the N. R. O. T. C. at Notre Dame. In the center section are the Marine trainees and back of them are the Navy students enrolled in the University's V-I2 program, now a year old. 
fi^^ 
r/'//^V,'/y. 
?2=^ffl,' ". ­

eally drugged with the vapors of 
dogma, superstition, and pseudo­. logic as to fall at the loieest at­

AIMMUU Relifi04U BiilletiH 
tribute levels. 

=z BY REV. JOHN P. LYNCH, CS.C., 'M : "Man-made concepts, such as 
"SCIENTinC" EDUCATION 
The educators are all upset over the 

current delinquency of youth. They have 
spent billions giving their "scientific" 
education, i n ­
eluding emphasis 
on self - expres­
sion and health, 
t o produce th e 
bod y beautiful. 
One would think 
that they at least 
would have 
turned out phy­
sically perfect 
specimens. Bu t 
FrndHT I«ack th e "scientific" 
educators hav e 

flopped even on that. 
Draft records show a very high rate of rejection for physical unfitness and this despite our boasted highest stand­ard of living in the world. 
But it is in the field of mental devel­opment, or soul development if you wish, that the flop is most evident—^^vith an enormously high percentage of youth being rejected or released as neuropsy­chiatries—unable to face difficult situa­tions, particularly discipline, and the necessary regimentation in the first six months of service. 
Do you remember at N.D. when we felt the system was too tough and old fashioned, not up to progressive stand­ards of "Sweetwater University," where the fellows were allowed so much more freedom and to do as they pleased? Our education was old fashioned, but not un­scientific, because we were being pre­pared by a real Alma Mater, a nour­ishing mother, for life, which has lots of difficult situations, including war. 
We were being taught "to take it" though at times we did doubt the wis­dom of that philosophy. 
MICE—NOT MEN 

You can't blame the neuropsychiatries for wilting before difficulties nor the kids for wilting in the face of the temptations and war excitement. They have been taught that they aren't men and are not expected to act like men. They've been taught they are just little animals with responsibilities to no one except to themselves—and that is to get as much fun, ease and pleasure out of life as possible and to avoid any denial, suffering or hardship of any kind. 
devils, witches, totems, taboos, hell-They have been taught they are just fire, original sin, divine right, pre­destination, • reincarnation, salvo-
animals and it isn't very hard to live 
tion-througlirdeath-in-battle and di­

down to that standard. 
vine revelation, related to no genet­
You can't blame the kids—^the respon­
ic patterns, but kept alive in an un­

sibility belongs to the "scientific" but 
ending chain of emotionally tinged

fuzzy-thinking educators. 
spoken and printed words, have dis­
• 
torted the intellectual processes of
INTELUGENCE? 
millions of persons over the cen­
Here is what the Commissioner of 
turies. . . ."

Education for a large state says in a re-• • .
cent book entitled The Meaning of In­
telligence. COMMISSIONER OF MIS-EDUCATION 
"Feeble in mind are Hie persons The Commissioner writes on intelli­whose intact brains, giving the gence. He shows his lack of it by clas­highest promise up through child-sifying dogmas, devils, hell-fire, original Iwod * * * have been so systemati-(Continued on Page 22) 
AN UNKNOWN SOLDIER POET TALKS TO GOD 
Look God, I have never spoken to You, But now I want to say How Do Yon Do; You see God, they told me You didn't exist. And like a fool, I believed all this. 
Last night from a shell hole, I saw Your sky, I figured right then, they had told me a lie; Had I taken time to see things You made, I'd have known they weren't calling a spade a spade. 
I wonder, God, if You'd shake my hand. Somehow I feel that You will understand; Funny, I had to come to this hellish place. Before I had time to see Your Face. • 
Well, I guess there isn't much more to say. But I'm sure glad God, I met You today; I guess the "Zero Hour" will soon be here. But I'm not afraid, since I know you're near. 
The Signal—well God, 111 have to go, I like You lots, this I want You to know; Look now, this will be a horrible fight. Who knows—^I may come to Your house tonight. 
Though I wasn't friendly to You before, I wonder God, if You'd wait at Your door; Look, I'm crying—me, shedding-J;^rs! I wish I had known Yon these many years. 
Well .. . I have to go now God-^goodbye! 
Strange . . . since I met You—I'm not afraid to die! 
The verse-abovCg author unkTiown, taken from tfie CHAPIIAIN'S DIGEST, was found on the body of an Amer­ican after a battle fa Italy. The poet's pseudo-scientific educators had failed him. He had to find God in a fox­hole. 
I tV('iYnwjVltWli\*i»\=( »i-, »v, »r, »!•, kv, 1, *,;,»,;,*,!( »A»,i,*,i,Jiw», 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This mazazine is pnbliihed bi-mantbly by the Ucivenity of Notrt Damt, Notsa Dame. T"**"* Entand 
ax leeond daxs matter October 1, 1939. at the Ponoffiee. Hotn Dame. T«ii«.»«, mdir the act of 
Ansnst 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Cbondl and of the National CathoUe Alumni Fadcratlan. Jamas E. Aimatrong. '25. Editon William B. Oeolar. "Zt, Maaogiag Editor 
VOL 22 JUNE. 1944 NO. 5 
(Editor's Foreword: If any alumnus thinks that the current liberal arts, and general educational, turmoil has passed Notre Dame's calm and centuried cur­riculum by, let him mention the subject at his own risk. The Editors, knowing that at least Uvo faculty groups had launched intellectual offensives, ap­proached tlie leader of one of these groups. Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., for clarification. Father Ward's answer which follows is indicative of the live interest on the University campus iii the trend of modem higher education. The ALUMNUS hopes to keep all alumni informed of the developments here 
•whichwill without question reflect fac­ulty and administrative study of current academic problems as they are related to Notre Dame's welfare and progress.) 
DEAR ARMSTRONG AND DOOLEY: 
You think things have certainly gone bad when a crowd of professors set out to read and discuss the classics on edu­cation, and you want to know what we are up to. Not very much at all. We only want to find out where the professors and the colleges are and what they might best be doing in these rough days and for the prospective post-war days. We'd like to clear matters up, and to know what is our business and how we could hope to get it done. 
For one thing, we'd like to know what may reasonably be meant by a liberal education and what place it has in a democracy. I don't say that any of us intended to ask this question, but it just naturally bounced out at us when we had looked once or twice at Plato's and Aristotle's theory of education for an aristocracy. Here we are, nice people no doubt, and in a social sense and a political sense very democratic, and yet to some extent we carry with us, out of an ancient and mediaeval and an early modem past, an aristocratic theory of college and university education. Our grandfathers of long ago held such a 

Invasion 
oftAe 



Professor's Mind 

theory and it made very good sense within their aristocratic societies. To some extent we hold on to it, too, of course in an unconscious and not very intelligent way. But we are supposed to be within a democracy. What sense then can the old educational ideals, so far as we still have them, now make? 
President Hutchins, like Cardinal Newman before him, has said the schools should develop the intellectual virtues or perfections. This is the lan­guage of Aristotle. We should like to know whether Aristotle has neverthe­less dealt here with realities that are valid and possibly important for all so-, cieties. 
Well, that is one of the problems ^vished this long time on the schools, and sure to be wished on them tomor­row. What is college education, for and within and by a democracy? What spe­cial freedom does it allow, or even de­mand? What deeper and truer and more Christian goals are proper to it? The colleges are for the most part demo­cratic in their recruitment, or at least not consciously anti-donocratic, and democratic also in their procedures, and I may claim in passing that Notre Dame has always been the seat of an almost incredible social democracy. I'm not just saying this, a matter that is so evident to college people who visit here for the first time. And, at that, the colleges, and Notre Dame itself, to some degree, carry on an aristocratic tradition. For instance, not a long time ago a student said to me, and a priest had said it independently, that the peo­ple, the mere hoi polloi, cannot be humanists, by which I could only under­stand them to mean that the people cannot be richly and profoundly hu­manized. 
A hang-over like that from an un­democratic, tradition is something we need to examine. In a Christian democ­racy, what is a liberal education, and for whom is it, and how can it be? The very idea of "liberal" as attached to education was, in some earlier contexts, essentially an aristocratic idea. But the question is whether it also has in it a meaning that makes sense in every man's life. At least the Greeks meant by "liberal" that which is proper to the aristocrat, the only man then free, the man who wouldn't dare to soil his hands with work. Is it people of that sort that our colleges and universities nurse and want to nurse? 
This is one of twenty vital questions that come up every time we go over one of the educational classics. So, Mr. Arm­strong and Mr. Dooley, yon have asked me what it is that a few of nsaie doing in our tiny and cell-like and quite in­formal studies. Nothing aristocratic, I can assure you. Didn't we invite you! All we do is to study the elemental edu­cational classics, and then in group dis­cussion to let questions appear as they will and to go as a body at them. So far we have taken off from the Greeks, and we are sure to return to them, but we mean to go on and study the Komans and the early Christians on education and the ninth century revival under Charlenagne and then the twelfth cen­tury renaissance and on into modem and current times. And of course any classic on this subject is a springboard into onr present education melee. 
What good does it do? We can't say in' advance. But it's lots of fun. One man says it's the professors' eloaent 'and two others have told me nothing has made them so happy for a long time. We started with one cell and now have two operating, and probably must form a iMrd, since we keep each down to fifteoi persons. One idea is a very dangerous thing in a fellow's head. But 
if he'd get two ideas and pound them together, or if a crowd would get half a dozen ideas and begin to chum them around, possibly something good for persons and society would result. So when we study matters so diverse as Aristotle's notion of education and St. Bonaventure's order of sciences, and Rousseau's Emile and the Jesuit Ratio, we might have some right to hope. Be­sides, you two have been long enough in and around schools to know that the teacher who tries to remain merely a teacher and does not read and re-read great sources and see what these have to do with the present moment, soon turns out to be rusty and at certain points loose and rattly. Above all, if he does not work with and against others on the great ideas that have made our world, he is as good as dead. 
You tyrants then will please let us scrutinize our own status, and the sta­tus and very meaning of all arts and sciences, and the integi-ation of these among themselves and in the life of society. In the thick of things and under the pressure of the new turns in our local and national and international life we have to be honest and ask where we are and what it is we do and what right we have to be. 
Sincerely, (REV.) LEO R. WARD, C.S.C. 

Wartime Physical Education 
By John A. Scannell, Head, Department of Physical Education 
An average of 2,700 men a day in physical education classes over the past year! 
That has been Notre Dame's load in this one phase of the wartime program on the campus. And, though such a load obviously strains facilities to the utmost and creates problems in staff, the pro­gram has been rated highly by all in­spectors visiting the campus. 
Good cooperation from the University maintenance department has served to make the most of the facilities. We have been fortunate in the quality of the spe­cialists sent us by the Navj' as teachers, as well as in the officer in charge of them. A contract which calls for the navy to "supplement" the University staff to compensate for increase in load has meant that the department has re­tained direction of the program witKout the worry of locating additional staff. The present staff is made up of five mem­bers remaining of the regular staff in physical education, three members of the coaching staff, 15 navy specialists, and two officers. 
This staff is responsible for 2,100 of the men-referred to above. The difference in the figures represents midshipmen (half the midshipman school's 1,200 men are in class each day) for whom the University furnishes facilities but not staff. Facilities for the midshipman pro­gram comprise the new Navy drill hall,, a drill and athletic field of approximate­ly 50 acres east of the stadium, and par­tial usage of the Rockne Memorial. 
The program for the V-12 and civilian students—^no distinction is made between them in this program—uses the Rockne Memorial and the old Gym for the indoor season. Various fields on the campus are brought into use for the outdoor work, with old Minims Field, south of the Bi­ology Building, and the parking lot south of the tennis courts carrying most of the load. 
A major piece of construction has just been authorized for the latter field. A group of eight asphalt surfaced tennis courts will be laid directly to the south of the clay courts, duplicating them in size and lay-out. These will be used for basketball and volleyball sections during the class day, and they will provide much needed tennis space over the week-end. The parking field to the south of these courts will be graded from Notre Dame avenue to Eddy street, and south for a distance of 300 yards. This will provide ample space for the field games of the class program. It will offer excellent facilities for interhall sport. 
In addition, an obstacle course, 800 yards in length and including 16 ob­stacles, has been set up east of the Bi­ology Building. St. Joseph's lake takes a share of the load by providing an oppor­tunity for functional (combat) swim­ming. 
The activities conducted on these areas are varied and provide plenty of oppor­tunity for the learning of skills, as well as the vigorous work-out needed for the development of the trainee. The indoor program finds classes in swimming, ap­paratus, tumbling and basketball in the Rockne Memorial. The apparatus room upstairs in the old Gym has been con­verted to a wrestling room by removing all floor pieces and covering the floor with four mats each 20 feet square. The area under the north stands of the has-, ketball court has become the boxing room. One full sized ring, six heavy bags, six light bags and platforms, plus ample room for rope skipping and shadow box­ing, make this a very satisfactory space. Classes in track and mass combatives cover the dirt floor in the old Gym during the day. 
The outdoor season finds some of these activities continued, some dropped, and. some new ones added. Wrestling remains under cover because of the difficulty in handling mats. Boxing moves out of doors when possible. Track sections transfer to Cartier Field and the ob­stacle course. Advanced swimmers move to functional swim classes in the lake, while weak swimmers are held in the Rockne Memorial pool. The three stand­ard field games of soccer, speedball and touch football are added. Volley ball, omitted from the indoor program for lack of space, takes its place. Cross country is added to the track and ob­stacle work. 
Class assignment to physical education is made by each dean as a part of the registration. An effort is made to assign 300 men per hour for physical education, this being the number best handled by staff and facilities. This group is broken into seven instructional sections for actu­al work. A seven period class day, from 
8:00 to 4:00, allows for the clearing of areas for interhall, recreational and var­sity uses in the late afternoon. 
Interest in interhall sport has re­mained at a high level. The earlier fear that the man who had a required gym class during the day would not be inter­ested in sport in his free time has long since been dissipated. During the past year there has been interhall competition in football, basketball, track, swimming, volley ball, boxing, wrestling, handball, badminton, tennis, golf and Softball. In Softball play just completed, 38 teams were entered. Varsity athletics have continued without the dropping of any sport or the cutting of any schedule. 
A vigorous program, reaching every­body, using all available facilities and staff, retaining many of the best feat­ures of peacetime and adding many new ones—^that's physical education at Notre Dame in wartime. 

TRANSLATE SPANISH BOOK 
Hubert J. Tunney, St. Louis Univer­sity, formerly a teacher at Notre Dame, and Philip Riley, professor of Spanish at Notre Dame, a member of the facul­ty since 1924, have completed a transla­tion of an outstanding Spanish novel. El Escandalo, by Pedro Antonio de Alarcon, which Alfred A. Knopf is pub­lishing. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
V-12 detachment but recently has been acting executive officer of the entire V­12 program. Capt. Finney will continue as marine officer in charge and also will 
UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS serve as aide to Commander Gabd. 
The commander, remaining in the naval reserve after World War I, was a banker in New Kensington, Pa., before 

ALUMNI TECHNIQUES ST. MARyS BACCALAUREATE 
he reentered active service March 15, 
In her Centenary year. Saint Mary's 

On May 10, 11, 12 and 13, James E. 1941, as a lieutenant commander aboard 
College, Notre Dame, invited Rev. Hugh 

Annstrong and William E. Dooley of the battleship Neiu York, on which he 
the Alumni Office attended the annual O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the Uni­served until November, 1941. The ship 
versity, to give the baccalaureate sermon 
national convention of the American was part of the contingent which es­
in the Chapel of the Holy Ghost there on 

Alumni Council in Chicago, held at the corted the first United States troops to 
Medinah Club. This is the convention Friday morning, June 2. Addressing the 
Iceland. which brings together the alumni secre­senior class. Father O'Donnell con­taries, magazine editors, fund raisers, demned a present day tendency to over­FolloOTng his service aboard the New 
York, Commander Gabel was executive placement directors, and other Jekyll-emphasize the "career woman." 
officer of the U.S.S. Pegasus, a supply Hyde variations of alumni associations ship, until January, 1943, when he was and their executive officers throughout 

NEW V.I2 EXECUTIVE 

named commanding officer of the ship. 
the country, men's, women's, state, pri­Cmdr. Walter S. Gabel, USNE, whose He continued in that position until he vate, large, small. It is alsD a comfort­naval service dates back to World War went to State College last November. 
able place in which the "union" gathers 
I when he was an ensign aboard a navy 
to lick its wounds received from alumni 
transport, arrived at Notre Dame to 
who fail to recognize the genius of the 
sundry progx'ams and scale the response take over the duties of executive officer WEEKEND MANEUVERS 
down from that Utopian 100 per cent. of the navy and marine corps V-12 Something new (although if you ask 
It is, without question, the most efficient units. an oldtimer the erstwhile Ball Week­
presentation of alumni work, with an Lately commanding officer of the V-12 end had everything but the uniforms) 
occasional possibility of question, for units and Diesel school at State College, was added with the introduction of Ma­
modesty's sake at least, in such things Pa., Commander Gabel will be assisted neuvers Week for the V-12. Friday as the paper by Notre Dame's alumni i» his new position by Capt. John W. night. May 26, the Navy Drill Hall 
secretary this year on "College Enroll­Finney, USMCR, who came here a year housed a giant Ball. A full review of ment Problems." ago as officer in charge of the marine" the Notre Dame units on Saturday, May 

MEMORIAL DAY FIELD MASS 
VnOx the vivid back­ground of the Navy troiiung program ei World War n and the beautiful Memorial Door of World War L Noire Dome observed Memorial Day with a field Mass at the Door on Sunday. May 28. 
The Band. Moreau Choir, the N.B.O.T.C. color guard and firing squad, a platoon of 52 flags. Navy and Marine detachments and eiv­ilian students and vis­itors gothered for the Mass. celebrated by the Bev. John J. Caranangh, 
C.S.C The oddress of the day was given by CapL J. Bichord Bony. XJSJt. The Ber. J. Hugh ODonneU. CS.CM pcatf­dent of Notre Dame, ia­troduced Captain Bony, and read the already impressiTe roll of iMBor of Notre Dome dead in World War 0. number­ing then just 100. 

27 gave the feminine ^•isitol•s thrills and navy uniform technique (the midship­men were reviewed also). At A:30 on Saturday afternoon, the V-12, on leave, entertained their guests at a picnic in South Bend's Potawatomi Park. A sup­per was followed by an outdoor stage show of V-12 talent, "Nights and Daze." On Sunday morning various churches and the University held Memorial Day services. And on Sunday afternoon, the week-end closed with a V-12 tea dance at the Indiana Club in South Bend. Principal departure from older tradi­tions was in the smooth manner in which the events were run off by a com­mittee accustomed to Navy organization. 
CHINESE BISHOP VISITS 
Most Rev. Paul Yu-Pin, distinguished Chinese bishop, spoke at Notre Dame in late April when he was guest of Rev. John A. O'Brien and the University. Bishop Yu-Pin spoke of economic rela­tions between the United States and China. He also spoke to students and faculty at St. Mary's. 
LYNCH WINS SECOND TIME 

John F. Lynch, Green Bay, Wis., son of Robert E. Lynch, '03, member of the Marine detachment of the V-12 unit at Notre Dame, captured first prize of ?100 in the University's annual Cava­naugh-Goodrich oratorical contest, and chalked up his second win in Notre Dame speech tourneys. He also took top honors in the Breen Medal contest held on the campus last February. "Rehabili­tation of the Negro" was the subject of the entry in the contest provided for by former Governor James P. Goodrich, LL.D., '17, in memory of the late Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., '90, former president of Notre Dame. 
John attended St. Thomas College, St. Paul, before coming to Notre Dame as a member of the first group of Ma­rine trainees. 

His father, Robert E. Lynch, who at­tended Notre Dame for four years, was an entrant in the Breen Medal contest while a student, reaching the finals of the competition. A member of Notre Dame's baseball team, he captained the nine of his senior yeai-, and later played professional ball -with the Philadelphia Phillies. 
Private John's interest in athletics runs to boxing. In 1940 he was ninner­up in the middleweight di^^sion of the regional Golden Gloves bouts sponsored by the Green Bay Press-Gazette, and later took the middleweight title at CCC Camp Blackwell, Wis. The summer fol­lowing he taught boxing at Camp Lin­coln for boys on Lake Hubert, Minn. 

WINS YALE AWARD 
Rev. Paul Beichner, C.S.C, A.B. '35, 

A.M. '41, has been announced as a re­search fellow by President Charles Sey­mour of Yale, to edit the Aurora of Petrus Riga, a canon of Reims. The fellowship is designed, it was an­nounced with several others, "to keep alive during the war years research and scholarship in the liberal arts." Worth $750, it is also a high honor for Father Beichner who has been at Yale for two years studying for his doctorate. 

FATHER CUNNINGHAM 
Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C, faculty director of the University, is en­joying in May and June a five-week trip to the Southwest, and Mexico. 
Points of special interest in Father Cunningham's trip are San Antonio, Dallas, Austin, and Mexico City. While in Mexico, he is making a study of local educational systems and will act as advisor to several Latin-American groups. 
Mo^^es of Notre Dame, accompanied by a sound track in Spanish, will be shown at the meetings which Father Cunningham planned to hold. 
Father Cunningham has long been in­terested in Latin-American affairs, and is recognized as one of the Catholic au­thorities in this field. His previous trips touching all but one of the South Amer­ican countries have made him under­stand the language, customs, social life, and culture south of the Rio Grande. 


K. OF C. ELEQION 
Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus on May 29 elected new ofiicers, and set up a tentative program for the coming summer months. At the same time, a drive for new members got under way, with several men from the campus taking the first degree in the South Bend Council rooms. Delegates to the state convention were Ernest Howard and Bernard Teah. 

Elections resulted in the selection of the following men: Grand Knight, Tim­othy Cotter, South Bend; Deputy Grand Knight, Benjamin Mammina, South Bend; Chancellor, Richard Sadowski, Grosse Pointe, Mich.; Recorder, Peter Runcano, South Bend; Treasurer, Brother Meinrad, C.S.C, Notre Dame; Warden, John Kramer, Pottsville, Pa.; Advocate, Bernard Teah, South Bend; Inside Guard, William Clemency, Brook­lyn, N. Y.; Outside Guard, Louis Lauth, Burlington, la.; Trustees, Richard Mur­phy, Oak Park, 111, John DeMoss, South Bend, and Rev. Charles Carey, Notre Dame. 

STRAKE IS NEW TRUSTEE 

George W. Strake, Houston, Texas, a leading independent oil operator and producer, is a new member of Notre Dame's Associate Board of Lay Trus­tees. His appointment was announced on May 19 by Rev. Hugh O'Ponnell, C.S.C, president of the University, at the board's semi-annual meeting at Notre Dame. 
Mr. Strake, a native of St. Louis, attended St. Louis University. In 1931, he discovered the Conroe, Texas, oil field, third largest in the United States, and subsequently discovered other fields in Texas and Louisiana. 
GEORGE W . STRAKE 
A devout Catholic, Mr. Strake re­ceived in 1940 from Rome the papal dec­oration of Knight of the Sovereign Mil­itary Order of Malta, the highest papal decoration that can be conferred upon a Catholic layman. In 1937 he had re­ceived the papal decoration of Grand Cross, Equestrian Order of the Knights of the Holy Sepulchre. 

Mr. Strake is a member of the Na­tional Board of Trustees, National Con­ference of Christians and Jews and of the executive board, Sam Houston Area, Boy Scouts of America. He is a director of the Independent Petroleum Associa­tion of America, the Mid-Continent Oil & Gas Association, the American Peti'o­leum Institute and the National Bank of Commerce of Houston. 
As a Christmas present Mr. Strake gave to the Houston Boy Scouts last year a 2,400-acre lake and woodland camp site. His benefactions to Catholic institutions have been numerous and substantial. 
Mr. Strake and his wife have two daughters and a son. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 


Campus Is Beautified by New Statues 
The inauguration of a campus beauti­fication project at the University was oificially started in May when statues of St. Joan of Arc and St. Michael the Archangel were placed in niches flank­ing the portico on the east wing of Sacred Heart church. 
Placing of the statues brought about the completion of the Notre Dame World War I memorial which was erected 20 years ago in May in memory of "Our Gallant Dead." When the por­tico was erected, niches were left for statues of Joan of Arc and St. Michael. The statues executed by Rev. John Bed­nar, C.S.C, '33, of the University's Art Department, are about two feet high. 

Plans also are being made to place statues in niches of the University's newer residence halls and other build­ings. The work is under the supervision of the University's art committee com­posed of Eev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C, '20, Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, '06, and Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C, '20. The program was instituted after the University's art department closed for the duration. 
The beautification project will be completed with the execution of a World War II memorial. This will be executed by Eugene Kormendi, native of Budapest, Hungai'y, who has been at Notre Dame for the last two years as an artist in residence. At present Mr. Kormendi, who is directing the program, is at work on a statue of Christ the King, which will be about six feet tall and will be placed in the Law Building. 
Included in the beautification project is a three-sided drinking fountain, exe­cuted by William J. Schickel, '44, of Ithaca, N. Y. Tentative plans call for the fountain to be placed in the square in front of the post office. The three sides of the statue depict Christ wash­ing the feet of his disciples, Christ at the well, and Christ preaching from the boat. 
The entire program is not expected to be complete for two years. Mr. Kor­
War Memorial Door of Sacred Heart Church Is Completed by Addition of Stat­ues of St. Joan of Arc and St. Michael. 
St. Joseph was the patron saint of Prof. Joseph Lyons for whom the hall was named. A statue of St. Timothy, patron saint of Timothy E. Howard, for whom Howard hall was named, is slated for that residence building. 
Father Bednar is now working on a statue of St. Bonaventure to be placed in Alumni Hall. 

Notre Dame's memorial for the Span­ish-American war, a monument of Wis­consin granite •with a nine-inch shell from the U.S-.S. Maine, was dedicated May 29, 1915, by Josephus Daniels, then secretary of the navy. It was erected in memory of John Henry Shillington ex-Notre Dame athlete who went down with the Maine. The second memorial was erected following World War I, and Mr. Kormendi is formulating plans for the third. 
Sacred Heart church, to which Notre 
Dame's World War I memorial was added, was laid in 1871. The building is of Gothic architecture. The windows in the church were designed by the Car-' melite nuns of Le Mans, France, birth­place of the Congregation of Holy Cross. The Stations of the Cross are the work of Luigi Gregori, who stayed at the University from 1874 to 1891. 

Mr. Kormendi's first project, executed at the age of 18, was a war memorial for a park in Budapest. He arrived in this country almost five years ago. He and Mrs. Kormendi were on a boat headed for the United States when war broke out in Europe. They could not re­turn home and remained here. Since then, they have taken steps to become citizens. 
Father Bednar studied art at Notre Dame and received his master's deg^ree in sculpture from the Chicago Art In­stitute. 
mendi has done a statue of St. Joseph, Eugene Kormendi. left artist in residence at Notre Dome, and Ber. John Bednar. to be placed in the niche at Lyons hall. C.S.C., head oi the art department, work on new statues for campus. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
QSCAK JOHN DORWIN, '17, was in 
March, 1944, elected general counsel of The Texas Company, with headquar­ters in New York City, after serving since Jan. 5, 1942, as asseciate general counsel. 
Attending Harvard Law School both before and after his naval service in World War I, Oscar received his law d^ree there in 1920. He practiced law privately in Chicago until Jan. 1, 1926, when he became counsel for the Indian Refining Company, Lawrenceville, El. Later he was appointed general counsel, 

••and continued as chief attorney for that company, imtil 1931, when control of the company passed to the Texas Company. 
In 1933 Oscar was transferred to Chi­cago and g:iven charge of the new legal office of The Texas Company being or­ganized there. He remained in Chicago until 1934, when he was transferred to the New York office of the legal depart­ment. 
Mr. and Mrs. Dorwin (the former Mrs. Olive McKay Hedge of Chicago) were married in St. Paul in 1927. 
OSCAR JOHN DORWIN 
pHAELES M. REAGAN, ex. '17, New 

York City, was on April 6 elected a vice-president of Paramount Pictures, Inc. At the same time the directors of Paramount approved a iive-year contract for him as general sales manager for the distribution of Paramount pictures in the United States and Canada. 
Charlie's latest recognition tops a steady rise of almost a quarter of a century in the Paramount organization. Bom in Lawrenceburg, Ind., he joined the company in 1920 in Cincinnati as a salesman. He was promoted to the branch managership of Indianapolis in 1922, and in 1925 he was advanced to district manager, supervising Cincinnati, Indianapolis and Louisville. In 1932 he became district manager in charge of Chicago, Detroit, Milwaukee and Indian­apolis, and in 1934 he was summoned to the Paramount home office in New York City as western division sales manager. He became assistant general sales man­ager in 1941. 
CHARLES M. REAGAN 
A WEST POINT MAN and a Notre 
Dame man got together along about 
1936 to work out what has now become 
the world's largest builder of shortwave 
radio communication equipment. The 
Hallicrafters Co. of Chicago. 
The West Point man was Bill Halli­gan, whose son. Bob, was a Notre Dame student until the U. S. Navy requested his services not long ago. The Notre Dame man was Ray Durst, '26, who along with Jack Benny, has brought greater fame to Waukegan, 111., his birth­place. Bill and Ray are co-partners in the Hallicrafter organization. 
Ray started in radio as soon as he finished at Notre Dame. He was first with the Fansteel Company, makers of Bakelite radio receivers, then wiOi the Ahlbell Battery Case Co., later with Echophone. 

Says the Hallicrafter Tuner, onploye publication: "Ray has hobbies like all of us and one of them is Raymond, Jr., who has the special advantage of calling Grace Durst his mother. Ray enjoys his 
RAY DURST 
family life, golf, penny ante, cribbage, tic-tac-toe, martinis and gin rummy." 
Also in the Hallicrafter organization are William "Red" Maher, '24, nationally known halfback of the early '20's, who is an expediter de luxe, and Matt Heinz, at Notre Dame in 1917-18, who is head of the cost department. 
LIBRARY GIFTS 
Sir Shane Leslie, LL.D., '35, formerly 
a lecturer in Irish literature at Notre 
Dame, has presented to the University a 
treasure of his family, the manuscript 
of the martyrology of St. Aengus the 
Culdee, an Irish abbot. The manuscript, 
which dates back to the eighth century, 
was transcribed by Eugene O'Curry, a 
century ago. 
Only six known copies of the new 
Notre Dame acquisition exist. Two are 
in the Bodelian library of Oxford Uni­
versity, one is in Rome, one in Brussels 
and one in Dublin. 
Sir Shane has inscribed the volume to the University in "appreciation of the doctorate conferred upon him by the president of the same University." The book was inscribed in Dublin on Ash Wednesday of 1944 and was brought to Notre Dame through the diplomatic channels of the British government, crossing the Atlantic in'a bomber. 

The University has also received, from John T. Howell, assistant curator of the 'Herbarium, California Academy of Sci­ences, Golden Gate Park, San Francisco, a copy of the extremely rare Part IV of Flora Franeiseana by the late great botanist and Notre Dame benefactor, Ed­ward Lee Greene. Dr. Greene, as alumni will readily recall, donated his herbariimi to Notre Dame and is buried in the Com­munity Cemetery on the campus. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Take the freedom firom a man's ednea­tim and yoa take virtue out of the 


Convocation Address, June, 1944 
world. Substitute convention for -yixtue and yon substitute sand for rock. By Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C, "23, Professor of Philosophy This incixnplete, truncated notion of 
(Ed^s. note: HO persons received de­grees at the term convocation in Wash-ton Hall on June 23 at 8:00 p.m. Joseph 
H. Mumane, Chicago, was the valedic­torian. Father Hzigh O'Donnell presented the degrees and Father Brennan gave the address.) 
I am well aware of that famous gradu­ation day game called "How Many More Pages." And so I promise forthwith not to be long. 
A few weeks ago I was privileged to talk with an American boy, a Notre Dame graduate of the '41 class and late­ly returned wounded from the European theater of war after a good number of bombing missions over the continent. He, my friends, had felt flak in his face and I was eager to hear what he had to say. From that boy, only three years removed from cap and gown ways and now a veteran soldier, I got a great deal of what I have to say to you this evening. He told me how much he appreciated Notre Dame in separation. He assured me that when he returned for graduate work as he planned he would spend more time with the Little Lady at the Grotto and with the God-Man in the chapel, that he would in a word try ever so hard to get from Notre Dame many, if not all, of the numberless good things she had to give. 
In the course of our chat I asked him this question: "What do you think is the need of education today?" And his an­swer came back frankly and quickly and with confident conviction. "We need," he said, "an honest evaluation of things." 
I took that to mean that what educa­tion needs today, and will ever need if it is to be the virile and beneficial and lasting thing it ought to be, is a full measure of honest realism. And by hon­est realism I mean a frank recognition of things as they are—God and the Uni­verse and man. 
What about God in education? The Infinite Being who, as the Bard of Flor­ence tells us, "moves the sun in heaven and all the stars" and Who so aptly describes Himself in the four monosyl­lables "I am Who am," should certainly be the touchstone of education. But in how many, many university and college and high school bulletins is He never, never mentioned? 
And what about the Son of God, the Second Person of the Blessed Trinity, 
whose coming upon earth is certainly the central fact of all history? In how many halls of learning so called is Truth Him­self not even recognized? And what about the Holy Ghost, the Spirit of Wis­dom and the Giver of Grace, Who pre­sided at the first commenconent on the original day of Pentecost, ten days after Christ delivered the first Baccalaureate Sermon? Is He, as He should he, uni­versally recognized? The too evident an­swer is "No." 
Without God in education we may have keenness but not thoroughness, quickness but not accuracy, consistency but not truth. And these add up to so many contradictions. Keenly unthorough, swiftly inaccurate, consistently false. . What concepts! What ideals! In educa­tion God is not well known nor do many know Him well. 
And what about the universe in educa­tion, the earth and the things thereof? Should not educators in their educating teach on the truthful assumption that material things be acquired and used as means and not as ends. If that were done there would certainly be more just acquisition and more rational use. 
And what about man in education? The simple fact is this. Too many edu­cators do not have a whole and whole­some and truthful concept of man. Too many of them do not recognize the dig­nity of man as measured by the immut­able truths of rational psychology. The concept of man as a person is too close to being lost. The notions of spirituality and inunortality, correctly predicated of man's soul, are too seldom known and too often denied with painful disregard of evidence. 
And what about the human intellect? That wondrous faculty that produced the great cathedrals of stone, Paris and Cologne and Rheims and the rest, the massive basilica of St. Peter's and its all embracing colonnades, that produced that immortal cathedral of principle, the Summa Theologica, that matchless ca­thedral of song, the Divine Comedy, what is education doing for it? Are edu­cators mindful of their duty to train the intellect of youth to think correctly? Too many of them are unmindful. 
And what of the human will? All of us know too well how — inconsistent though it is—men use their free wills to deny their freedom and consequent duty. 
man has done ill in education. It'lias brought us the sophisticate. It has de­creased the number of the learned. It has made too common tiie false notion that some men are common whereas every man is an aristocrat because he is a person. It has done so much harm that I could not begin to tdl you a small part of it 
Whoever it was who said that we have need of going back to tiie three R's— Reason, Kesponsibilify, and Kesonreeful­ness—gave a lot of us loads of advice. Reason by which we think correctly, re­sponsibility that comes from a recogni­tion of person understood in the fullness of its meaning, resourcefulness that comes from good habits of intellect and will. Certainly we have need of these three R's. We need a rededication of the human intellect to truth, a rededication of the human will to moral good. And we should not forget that the Intelleet and the Will should be educated for as long as they are to be. They are to be forever, so they should be educated for­ever. 
Too many educational institutions— even (me is too many—have curricula that do not meet the requironents of honest realism. And so we have too many curricula that are incomplete^ inarticu­late, and hence almost meaningless. 
To educate a man is very like the building of a cathedral, whether of st<me or principle or song. And what would Notre Dame of Paris be without the spire and the cross, what would Saint Peter's of R<Hne be without the majestic dome and the massive facade and the all embracing colonnades? The first would not be like a prayer nor the second like a rock. What would the Summa Theo­logica be without the treatises on God, what would the Divine Comedy be with­out the*Paradiso? The first would be ill called the classical digest of reasons for the faith that is in us and the second would be ill called a synthesis of med­ieval cultura It was not, my friends, without reason that King Louis built La Sainte Chapelle next to the Palace of Justice. 
And now a short word to tiie-gradu­ates. From your very first days at Notre Dame you were, whether yoa knew it or not, in a very real sense monbers of her faculty. This evening yon have become in a differ«it seise monbers of Notre Dame's faculty - at - large, commissioned to' teach by word and example as is every other alumnus and alumna what yoa 
(Continued on Fmce 12) 

CHICAGO TRUSTEES GIVE DINNER 
Seoied at the head table, left to right: Bear Admiral Arthur S. Caipender. USN. Byron V. Kanaley, Bev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., Bear Admiral E. G. Monell. USN. ond Hon. Edward J. Kelly, Mayor of Ciiicago. Standing, left to right: John C. TuUy, William I. Corbett, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, CS. C and Edward J. Doyle. 
On June 7, the members of the Board of Trustees of Notre Dame who reside in Chicago, namely Byron V. Kanaley, '04, chairman, Edward J. Doyle, Wil­liam J. Corbett, and John C. TuUy, 'H, held a dinner in honor of Bear. Admiral Arthur S. Carpender, commandant of the Ninth Naval District, and Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, CS.C, president of the University. The dinner was in the Chi­cago Club. 
Before the short and informal talks 
by Father O'Donnell and by Admiral 
Carpender, Mr. Kanaley, toastmaster, 
had the following to say: 
"Ties founded in tradition and history have bound Navy and the University of Notre Dame for nearly a century. An­napolis and Notre Dame were founded at about the same time—^Notre Dame in 1842, and Annapolis in 1845, so their years have been parallel. Especially have the relations and contacts between Navy and Notre Dame been very close and treasured since the days of World War I and Admiral Benson, commander of Naval Operations in that war. Ad­miral Benson and Mrs. Benson kept in close touch for many years of their lives with the University and evidenced in many ways their interest. 

"This tradition of mutual affection and respect between Navy and Notre Dame has been carried on and intensi­fied by their close cooperation in this war. This cooperation has been made manifest in many directions, and so in this modest way tonight, by this infor­mal dinner, the trustees of the Univer­
sity have asked in a few friends of Notre Dame, so that we may express, in a necessarily inadequate way, our deep regard for Navy, represented tonight by Rear Admiral Arthur S. Carpender." 
Admiral Carpender in responding, said, "The relationship between the Navy and your great University has al­ways been on the highest level. It is this kind of mutual understanding be­tween civilian organizations and the Armed Forces which makes possible the superb record of our country in mobiliz­ing her manpower to meet the threat of the barbarian nations. 
"Notre Dame, through the high offices and leadership of Father O'Donnell and the Board of Trustees, has served and will always serve her country in a mag­nificent manner. The Navy is humbly grateful to her and to her fighting, men." 
Among the navy officers attending the dinner were: Rear Admiral E. G. Mor­sell, district supply officer of the Ninth Naval District, Great Lakes; Capt. J. Richard Barry, commanding officer of all naval units at Notre Dame; Capt. Joseph T. Casey, chaplain at the U. S. Naval Training Station, Great Lakes. 
Capt. Robert R. M. Emmett, com­manding U. S. Naval Station, Great Lakes; Capt. Ola F. Heslar, director of training, Ninth Naval District; Capt. Emanuel A. Lofquist, chief of staff to commandant. Ninth Naval District; Capt. Alfred J. Toulon, commanding officer, U. S. Naval Hospital, Great 
Four faculty members of the Univer­sity shared honors in the publication of Out of the Midwest, an anthology of short stories edited by John T. Freder­ick who, for many years, was professor of English on the campus, and is now on leave of absence. 
Besides the author and compiler of the volume, the three other faculty men honored in the publication are: Rev. Leo 
L. Ward, CS.C, Prof. Richard Sulli­van, and Rev. Leo R. Ward, CS.C 
Mr. Sullivan, whose story "The Women" appears in the anthology, is the author of the novels Summer After Summer, and Dark Continent, and has written short stories for the Atlantic Monthly, Cobimbia, Scribners', The New Republic, Mademoiselle, Accent, and the 
New Yorker. "The Women" was also chosen to appear in the 1943 edition of 

O'Brien's Best Slwrt Stories. 
"New Neighbors Looking for Land" is the selection of the Rev. Leo R. Ward, CS.C, in Out of the Midwest. Father Ward's contribution is taken from his book. Holding Up the Hills. Professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, he is presi­dent of the American Catholic Philo­sophical Association, and has A\Titten The Philosophy of Values, and Values 
of Reality. He has also written God In 
An Irish Kitchen, and Nova Scotia, Land of Cooperators. 
Rev. Leo L. Ward, CS.C, head of the English Department at Notre Dame, is represented in the new anthology by his "Black Purple In the Com." In addition to short story writing, he collaborated with Mr. Frederick on Good Writing, which appeared in 1934, and Reading for Writing, which appeared in 1935. 
Mr. Frederick, now on leave of ab­sence fropi Notre Dame, has been a member of the faculty since 1930. For the past six years he has broadcast a weekly program, "Of Men and Books," over a national hook-up. He is the for­mer editor of The Midland, a post which he held for 18 years. He has also taught at Northwestern, State Teacher's Col­

lege,  Moorhead,  Minn.,  University  of  
Pittsburgh,  and  the  State  University  
of Iowa.  

Lakes; Capt. Edwin A. WoUeson, com­manding officer. Navy Pier, Chicago; Capt. B. B. Wygant, commanding offi­cer, U. S. Naval Reserve Midshipmen's School, Abbott Hall, Northwestern Uni­versity, Chicago; and Lt. Cmdr. Henry 

E. Russell, aide to commandant. Ninth Naval District. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Br J. WAITEB KEHNEDT. '34 
PnbUeitr IKracter 







ATHLETICS 
L'EAHy JOINS NAVy 
With the entrance of Lt. Frank Leahy into the Navy on May 25, Ed McKeever, ex. '34, became acting director of ath­letics and head football coach. The foot­ball coaching staff was rounded out with the appointment of Clem Crowe, '26, and Adam Walsh, '25, two former Notre Dame captains. In addition to his foot­ball duties, Crowe will also take over for the duration the basketball coaching job of Lt. Edward Krause, USMCR, '34. 
McKeever,- for five years first assist­ant to Leahy, both at Boston College and Notre Dame, thus completes a foot­ball career which reads like a Holly­wood scenario. In 1930, Ed was a fresh­man at Notre Dame, played regularly on the frosh team of that year and won numerals in track and basketball. He returned briefly the following fall, but due to the serious illness of his father, he returned to his native Texas. His father's health improved later in the fall, so Ed entered Texas Tech, where he played and starred as a regular half­back during the 1932-33-34 seasons. After graduating, he became assistant. to Coach Pete Ca\vthon (now Brooklyn pro coach) at Texas Tech. 
In 1938, McKeever and Leahy met when they both were lecturing at the summer coaching school of the Texas High School Coaches Association at Lubbock. Leahy was impressed vfith Mc­Keever's personality, presentation and knowledge of the game. When Leahy was offered the Boston College head coaching post, he immediately called Mc­Keever, asking him to become backfield coach. When Leahy came to Notre Dame in 1941, McKeever came with him. 
Clem Crowe, captain of the 1925 Notre Dame football team, has been coaching since his graduation. He was head football and basketball coach at St. Vincent's in Latrobe, Pa., from 1928­
32. Since 1932 Clem has been at Xavier University in Cincinnati, where he has been successively and inclusively, bas­ketball coach, football coach and direc­tor of athletics. Clem has been given a leave of absence from Xavier, to enable 
• him to coach at Notre Dame for the duration. 
Adam Walsh, all-American center and captain of the undefeated 1924 team, also will be on "lend-lease" for the 
LT. FRANK LEAHY, USNR . 

duration. For the past several years Adam has been head coach at Bowdoin College in Maine, and he was given a leave of absence by Bowdoin officials. After his graduation, he became head coach at Santa Clara on the Pacific coast. He later coached the line at both Yale and Harvard. 
Rounding out the football coaching staff will be three holdovers from the 1943 staff. Hugh Devore, co-captain of the 1933 team, will act as line coach; Jake- Kline, head baseball coach, will assist with the backs; and Walter Ziem­ba, center on the 1942 team, will also coach the line. 

FOOTBALL PROSPEQS 
The annual spring practice this year failed to arouse any enthusiastic hopes among the coaching staff for a highly successful 1944 season. With all but four lettermen from last year's great squad gone from the campus, and with the newcomers, in the main, youngsters of 17 and 18 years of age, Ed McKeever and his assistants have a tremendous job cut out for them. 
The four monogram winners return­ing are John Adams and George Sulli­van, tackles; Frank Dancewicz, quarter­back; and Bob Kelly, halfback. Sullivan and Kelly are members of the Navy V-12 unit; the other two are civilians. 
There is a possibility that Herb Cole­man, varsity coiter last year, may be back. He is in the Navy V-5, but has never been called. Due to a slight phy­sical disability, he may be given a med­ical discharge. . "-^ 
The outstanding newcomer is 17-year­old Joe Gasparella, a quarterback from Vandergrift, Pa. Gasparella weighs 205 pounds, stands 6 feet, 3 inches tall, and wears a size 12 shoe. He promises to be another passing wizard, like Bertelli and Lnjack, although McKeever claims hell wait until the end of the season to pass judgment. A natural leader, Gasparella will be entrusted with the play-calling in spite of his age and inexperience. 
Other standouts among the spring practice candidates are: Don Lesher, fullback, a Navy V-5 trainee from Chi­cago; Bill O'Connor, a 6 foot, 3 inch end, from New York; two midget halfbacks, weighing 150 pounds each, Don Doody from Chicago and Nnnzio Marino, Windber, Pa.; Walter Kondratovitch, a halfback from Bridgeport, Conn.; and Emil Ladyko, a 200-pound end, also from Bridgeport. 
The 1944 football schedule follows: 
Sept. 30—PittsbuTKh at Fittsbursh Oct. 7—Tnlane at Notre Dame Oct. 14—Dartmonth at Boston Oct. 21—^Wisconsin at Notre Dame Oct. 28—^Illinois at Champaign Nov. 4—Navy at Baltimore Nov. 11—Army at New York Nov. 18—Northwestern at Notre Dame Nov. 25—Georgia Tech at Atlanta Dee. 2—Great Lakes at Notre Dame 


SPRING SPORTS 
Notre Dame spring sport teams en­joyed onnsoal success this season, the tennis team going undefeated, the golf team winning all but one of its seven matches, the track team winning three of four dual meets, and the basd>all team winning 11 of the 22 games played. 
Walter Langford's tennis outfit sweeping nine strai^t matches, eame through with Notre Dame's third un­defeated season. The 1927 team and 1942 team had similar records. Jerry Evert and Charley Samson, Navy V-12 trainees, and Bill Tully, a civilian &om New York, led the team to its fine rec^ 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
on Oct. 27, 1945, and at Iowa City on Oct. 26, 1946. Iowa has a new, but fa­miliar coach, in E. P. "Slip" Madigan, '20. But the Iowa tradition has not de­pended entirely on coaches there, with Howard Jones defeating Knute Rockne's great team in 1921, and Dr. Eddie An­derson's ('22) eleven turning the trick twice against otherwise able Layden elevens in 1939 and 1940. It is the only team with a complete series record of defeats in Notre Dame's history. War or peace, the new series will undoubted­ly repeat some of the epic qualities of the earlier games. 


WINS FOUR MONOGRAMS 
Johnny Lujack, 19-year-old Navy V­12 trainee, from Connellsville, Pa., who entered Notre Dame as a civilian fresh­man in the spring of 1943, this spring became the first Irish athlete in 29 years to win four monograms, and the first man in Notre Dame history to ^vin four letters in first-year competition. 
Only two other men in Notre Dame history have won four monograms — Alfred "Big Dutch" Bergman and Rupe Mills. Both won their awards prior to 1915. 
Johnny won his first monogram as a regular quarterback in football, then, with only one week of practice, he gained a first string basketball position. This spring he competed as a high jumper and javelin thrower in track (he was undefeated in the latter event) and was a second baseman and right fielder on the diamond squad. At Notre Dame, against DePauw (in track) and Western Michigan (in baseball), he competed in track bet\veen innings of the baseball game, in his baseball- imi­form. He repeated the performance against Western Michigan at Kalama­zoo when the two Notre Dame teams were there on the same afternoon. 

CONVOCATION ADDRESS 
(Cbntinued from Page 9) 
have learned here if you have learned what you should have learned. 
You graduates of this evening should be thankful—thankful to your parents and any one else who made selfless sac­rifices that you might become graduates of a great University. You should be sat­isfied and justly proud to have done the intellectual work required to become members of the ever expanding teaching family of Notre Dame. Yon should be re­solved to live what you have here been taught. 
And so, in the words of an old peda­gogue to one of his favorite departing students, I say to all of yon from all of ns at Notre Damej "Go for good, and don't forget to return. 
ord. Five Big Ten teams fell before the 
Irish, including Michigan, the Big Ten 
champ. 
Only one full point kept Father George Holderith's golfers from match­ing the tennis team's undefeated season. Notre Dame dropped its opening match against Purdue, 9%-8l4, and then took six straight wins. One victim was the Michigan team which later won the Big Ten championship. 
Jake Kline's baseball team had a rough season. Navy duties and with­drawals from school all but depleted Jake's squad as the weeks went by, and at one stage of the season he found it difficult to field nine men. 
Doc Handy's outdoor track team lost only to the Great Lakes track squad in four dual meets. In addition, Frank Martin, distance runner; Joe Kelly and George Sullivan, shotputters, and Phil Anderson, pole vaulter, were point win­ners in the Drake Relays, Central Col­legiates or NCAA meets. 
Summaries follo^\ s: 
TENNIS 
Notre Dame 8, Notre Dame 7, Notre Dame 5, Notre Dame 7, Notre Dame 6, Notre Dame 6, Notre Dame 8, Notre Dame 6» Notre Dame 7, 
Northwestern 1 Wisconsin 2 Michigan 4 Chicago 2 DePauw 3 Indiana 0 West. Mich. 1 AVest. Mich. 3 DePauw 2 
GOLF Notre Dame 8%, Purdue 914 Notre Dame 19^. Northwestern 7% Notre Dame 17%. Michigan 9% Notre Dame 18, Detroit 0 Notre Dame 20, Minnesota 7 Notre Dame 13, Lawrence Coll. 5 Notre Dame 15, III. Inst of Tech. 0 
BASEBALL Notre Dame 10, Indiana 3 
Notre Dame 
Notre Dame 
Notre Dame 
Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame 
Notre Dame 10. Notre Dame 4. Notre Dame 4, Notre Dame 6, Notre Dame 2. Notre Dame 15 Notre Dame 7, 
 4. Indiana 0 
2 8 
4 
2 2 
0. 
5t 
3 5. 0 2. 4. 2. 
•Wisconsin 1 
Wisconsin 1 
Michigan 5 
Michigan 7 
Purdue 5 
Freeman field 4 
WesL Mich. 8 
West. Mich. 1 
Bunker Hill 4 
Seahawks 2 West Mich. 1 West. Mich. 2 
Banker Hill 6 Michigan 1 Michigan 6 Freeman field 3 Northwestern 7 Greac Lakes 8 
Purdue 0 Greac Lakes 13 
TRACK Notre Dame 46, Great Lakes 72 Notre Dame 93, De Fiauw 39 Notre Dame 73%. Seahawks 57% Notre Dame 67. West Mich. 54 
IOWA AGAIN 
Director of Athletics and Head Coach Ed McKeever (for the duration) has announced the signing of a new series with Iowa to be played at Notre. Dame 


1944 WESTERN TENNIS CHAMPIONS 
These players won the 1944 western tennis championship ior Notre Dame. Left to right, back row.. Coach-Walter Longford. Leonard Buchstaber. Billy Tully. Hm Griifio. DoiieU Blade and Bart 03rien. Left to right, bottom row, Chorles Samson. Jerry Erert. Sanlecd Warshawsky, and Joe Wood. 
Second Annual Alumni Fund 
Contributors, March 15 to May 31, 1944 

(Ihese unsolicited contributions are credited to the Second Annual Alumni fSind, to which additional contributions may be made any time during the year 1944. As in the Centenary E^ind, the alumni eontri­buttons represent alumni gifts direct to the University, through the Alumni Assooation, or throush the Ilirector of Public Relations.) 
Anonymous 250.00 
Murray, T. Frank _ 20.00 Hellrung. Hertert G. 10.00 
1897 to 1904 1918 1929 
MacNamara, Rev. Bamett, Joseph T. $ 6.00 
Pamell. Robert N. S.00 
John A., '97 S 15.00 Colanisso, Sam A 6.00 
Zoia, Clyde J. 10.00 
Anonymous » 2S.00 
Crepeau, O. W., '99 5.00 Colton. Capt. Charles F. 6.00 
20.00 Polhaus, Edmund A. 25.00 
McCormack, Michael J., '99 12.50 Deniger, Reynold A. 100.00 
Powers, Leo J. 25.00 
1919 

Eeed, Louis C. M.. '00 25.00 Donahue, Donald H. 6.00 
Skelley, Norbert F. _ 20.00 
Carlton. Joseph R., '01 25.00 Finske. Louis J. 25.00 Haney, Louis F. 2.00 
'Stoll, Carl F. 2.00 
Bauman, E. Walter, '03 10.00 King, Francis C. 25.00 Hartzer. Lt. Norman J. 25.00 
Traynor, John P. — 55.00 
Crumley, Harry V., '03 10.00 Holahan, Paul D. 6.00 Dohan. Joseph F., '03 10.00 Martersteek, Karl E. 25.00 
t 697.00 
Kolupa, Ladislaus A., '03 _ 5.00 1920 , Meyer, Francis D. 5.00 Pick, Edwin, '03 5.00 Madi^n, Edward P. 6.00 1926 Miner, Fred C. 
100.00 Jones, Thomas J., '04 100.00 Swift, Richard B. — 5.00 Cbughlin, Dr. Bertrand D.*.$ 10.00 Niezer, Louis F. 26.00 Vurpillat, Dr. Francis J. „ 20.00 Dooley, William R. 25.00 O'Bryan, Joseph G. ' 25.00 
$ 222.50 

Durst, Raymond W. 100.00 Rees, Leo A. 25.00 
S 30.00 

1905 to 1909 Glynn, James J. 10.00 Seitz, Reynolds C. ;__ 3,00 Bosler, •William N., 'OG -S 10.00 1921 Goepfrich. Rudolph A. 10.00 Stauder, Lawrence P. 6.00 
Dubhs, James A., '06 — 100.00 Hall, Austin K. 10.00 Witz, Hieodore A. , 5.00 Gehant, Oliver L., '07 _., 10.00 25.00 Zappone, Francis L. 
Conrad, Raymond J. 15.00 
Cusack, Charles E. — 25.00 Hargan, Edward F. 2.00 Jordan, James D., '07 — 5.00 Dettling, John A. — Hayes, Capt. Gerald W. 25.00 
10.00 Kasper, Thomas C ». 10.00 Landry, Ernest L. 10.00 f 372.00 
S 125.00 
15.00 

Meagher, Edmund J. 100.00 Lovier, Lester L. 1930 
10.00 

1910 Nyikos, Stephen F-5.00 Mason, Charles E. 
Barry, David, Jr. — -$ 5.00 

Roth, Major Jesse H. —— Ott, Lawrence ™. 5.00 Mekus, Francis A. 5.00 
Bitter, John A.. Jr. 26.00 Sherry. 'Wiinam J. 25.00 O'Connell, Charles J. 10.00 
Blatt. Rev. Bemarid 25.00 1911 Bloom. Richard A. 10.00 
miman, Joseph L.» Jr. 25.00 O'Day, George P. 25.00 O'Neill. Daniel J. . 5.00 
$ 220.00 Cassidy, William E. E.0O Smith, Gerard J. 25.00 
Reuss, Charles J. > _S 10.00 
Clark, Heniy J. _ _ 11.00 
1922 

Velie, Alton C. 5.00 
Conroy, Bernard W. 6.00 

1912 Ashe, Gerald A. . -S 25.00 Yawman, Victor G. 250.00 
Costello. James C. 6.00 Condon, Leo J. S 50.00 
Baumer, Fred H. 10.00 
Omningham, Frederick &00 Dockweiler, Thomas A. J. _ 10.00 Dundon, Edward J. 20.00 t 675.00 
Gallagher, Arthur J. 6.00 Kelley, Lt. Cmdr. John F. 5.00 
1927 Hand, Lt. Frauds J. 6.00 
Shea, Robert D. 25.00 
Hellrung. Robert T. 26.00 

Callahan. Edmund D. _ 5.00 
1913 Stuhldreher, Walter J. 25.00 
Holmes. Robert A. 6.00 Cartier, Morgan E. „.S 25.00 S 110.00 Fury, L. William 10.00 HeAkxm. Leo H. : 26.00 Kirk. Harry J. — 10.00 1923 Anonymous L 260.00 
Delia Maria, Joseph P. 3.00 
Gartland, Joseph A.. Jr. -^ 5.00 Hagenbarth. Frank J., Jr. 7.50 
O'Brien, James F. I. 25.00 O'Keefe^ James G.. Jr. 6.00 
Barnhart, Henry F. _S 50.00 
O'Hanlon, Joseph R. 5.00 O'Roorke. T5emey A. 
Jones, Herbert E. . 50.00 26.00 
Kreimer, Edward P. __-.— 5.00 
Turner, M. Jay 10.00 Kavanaugfa, Capt. Slick, Edwin E.. Jr. 10.00 
Montague, John M. ­Sloan. Robert V. 
William D. 5.00 25.00 $ SO.OO 6.00 Spahr, Raymond J. • 6.00 
s 75.00 

Kemps» Carl F. 1914 1924 McFadden. Francis P. 26.00 Steitz. William N. 10.00 O'Connell, Rev. Arnold, Jerome C. $ 5.00 McKenna, L t Robert L. _ 3.00 Sullivan, Donald D. 5.00 
5.00 Sullivan. James W. 10.00 
Barrett, John R. McKenna, Walter P. 1, 5.00 Redden, William J. 10.00 Brady, Lt Col. Nyikos, John J. 25.00 Welzenbacfa. Alois J. 26.00 Speidel, John G. —.—— 25.00 Winkler, George F., Jr. 10.00 
Raymond R. 5.00 O'Keefe. William A. 5.00 Walsh, Jo.=eph M. 25.00 
Bro\vn, Dr. Har\'ey F. 50.00 Reidy, John J, 26.00 
65.00 Cunningham, Robert S. 1.00 Rigali. Joseph L 10.00 « 638.00 Drigss. Harry S. 5.00 Ryan. Edwin L. .. ..—• 5.«0 1931 
1915 
Meehan, James R 25.00 Brieger, Earl W. 5.00 
Carroll, William M. -. 5 10.00 Miller, L t Cmdr. 193.50 Coomes; Edward A. _ 10.00 
Lawler, James W. 10.00 
1928 Desenberg. William R. 10.00 
20.00 

250.00 Amict, Neil H. 10.00 Findley. Glen J. 26.00 
1916 Nolan, Mark E. 5.00 Brost, Paul C. S.00 Fisher. Clifford L. 2.00 Cook, William J. 50.00 Rothert. Matthew H. 100.00 Conmey, Lt. (iff) James J. 10.00 Eahn. Robert J. 20.00 Humphreys, Raymond M. 5.00 Stillman, Harry B. 25.00 Culliney, Lawrence J. 10.00 
Monahan, Thomas F., Jr. -6.00 

HcLoughlin, $ 491.00 Davis, Albert F. 10.00 O'Leary, Major 
Joseph G. (C.B.M.) — 25.00 Fontana, John C. 25.00 Lawrence A. 10.00 Hetzger, Harry 10.00 1925 Grams, August M. 50.00 Fetrauskas, Alexander A. -10.00 
 James 

Prall, Frederick M. 20.00 Bartley, John A. .$ 25.00 Griffin, Joseph W. 10.00 Rizer, L t L. 5.00 
Benitz, William H. Hartley, James J. 2.00 Sullivan, Robert J. 5.00 
110.00 
s 

Caldwell, Lt. C. J. 5.00 Kearns, James B. 5.00 Weibler, Lt (jg) John 0._ 1.00 
1917 
Carfasno, Thomas F. 25.00 Loranger, Capt Guy L, 10.00 Wisda. Lester J. — 10.00 Cooney, Dr. John M. _ 5 25.00 Centlivre, Herman G. 5.00 Mitiguy, Arthur A. 8.00 HcNichols, Austin A> — 25.00 Daschhach. Albert F. . 5.00 Murphy, John P. z 10.00 %.• 118.00 
250.00 Ley, Bernard W. . 10.00 O'Ctannor, Fierce J. 10.00 1932 
Loeffler, Bernard T. 5.00 Scheuer, George A. aoo Sullivan, Dr. Marion F. . Ludwis:, Georse E. 50.00 Smith, David H. 25.00 
5.00 BaU, Hugh B : -laoo 
10.00 
Bleesv Jolm P.. Jr. _ 
10.00 
250.00 

Voll, Bernard J. McCarthy, Joseph W. 20.00 Callunvaki, Henry J. . 6.00 S 565.00 Metzger, Walter J. 10.00 $ 200.00 Conaton, William R. 
6.00 

Condon, Leonard W. Conway, John £. . Czapalsld, Stanley J. Donohoe, Eiebard C. (SyO)-Driscoll, John E. Hechinger, Ernest C. Kiener, John A. . Harley, Francis H. Hdiren. U. lie) Edward W. Boney, Bichard T. Stieb, L t Bobert 0. Svete, Leo C. Theiaen, L t Cyril O. Toussaint. Joseph A. Van Booy. William _ 1933 Brinker, John B. Carroll, William P.. Jr. Cawley, Francis R.  500.00 10.00 2.00 20.00 10.00 S.OO 5.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 652.00 5.00 2.00 5.00  1936 Barry. Robert E. Baum, Arthur A. Cook. Robert F. Coyne, John V. „ Cummings, Pvt. Paul W. Cushing* Leo J. Deichmann, Fred A., II Dizenzo, Patrick A. Guamieri. L t Paul A. — Huber, Arthur F. Jacobs, William L., Jr. „. -Kane, Pvt. Raymond A­— Lounsberry, Lt. Eugene P. Manning, Robert A. McCabe. Robert F. McCorniack. Lt. Donnell J-Meagher, Thomas J. Norton, John W. O'Connor, Michael J. Pieroni, Charles M. Walsh. William A., Jr.  5.00 15.00 2.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 S.OO 5.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 25.00 12.50 10.00 1.00 10.00 2.00 10.00 ,  Deale, Ens. Valentine B. DeWald, Paul C. Doyle, John T. Dray, Ens. Joseph F., Jr. _ Gallagher. John C • Gartland, Frauds X., Jr. . Hartsock, L t John B. Heigel, Joseph J. Hunt Russell L. Kelley, Capt Paul K. Kelly, Ens. Francis B. Lacroix, Ens. Luden J. LaVignue, Ptc. Ernest F. _ LeRoy, Bernard F. . Haloney, Capt Philip J. Mastropietro, Francis J. — McDonald, Joseph L., Jr. _ McEneamey, Pfe. Alfred B. HcGoldrick, James G^ J. — McGuinness. John L. Meskill, L t (jg) David T. Metzger, Ens. Charles J. _ Moorman, Major  S.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 7.60 10.00 20.00 6.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 2.00 10.00 2.00 25.00 10.00 3.00 5.00 25.00 50.00 6.00 10.00  Bartl, Rboert L. Brockman, L t Bernard N., Jr. (In memory of his brother. Edward, '46) 100.00 Brownfield, L t Paul W. — 2.00 Buckler, Sg t Joseph L. — 10.00 Bums, L t James A. 6.00 Bums, Pv t Bobert E., Jr.„ 20.00 Corbett James J. 10.00 (Tnnniff, Charles L. 5.00 De Lay, L t Eugene E. — 4.00 Dixon, niomas . E. 26.00 flshbume. Benjamin P. . 10.00 Foley, Capt. Roger C. — 60.00 Gerra, L t (jg) Ralph A. 5.00 Gero, Ens. John B. 1.00 Gottron, Ens. Harry P., Jr, 50.00 Graham. Edward A. 2.00 Hickey, Ens. Gerald A. 10.00 Howley, L t (jg) Robert S. 10.00 Humby, Capt Arthtur J. — 10.00 Kane, John J. 10.00 Lapilusa. Pfc.  
Ghawgo, Louis E. Coosina Bernard L. Coyne, Eugene J. DeWald. Hautice J. Flint, L t Robert J. Hofmann. Sgt. :. Joseph A., Jr. Hyde, Samuel Y. Loughrey, Charles M. Hartersteck, Lt. William J. Hitsch, William H. Naber, Hajor Raymond J.. Staley, Carroll A. Stephan, Edmund A. S1934 Astone. Victor C. ­..SBrugger, Leo J. — Desnoyers, Lt. (jg) . Harold B. Ferrari, Capt Salvatore T. Fromm, William H., Jr. _ Green, William W. Holland, Emmett J. Kelley, Richard W. O'Connor, John J., Ill Piontek, Raymond F. Pngliese, Anthony J. Schenkel, Norbert J.  2.00 10.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 20.00 2.00 10.00 113.00 1.00 S.OO 5.00 15.00 10.00 25.00 5.00 10.00 20.00 5.00 5.00 5.00  $1937 Allen, Donald L Baldwin, Lt. Harry A. Bride, Sg t Allan F. — Broderick, John D. Dniecker, Ens. Harold J. .. Fitzpatrick. L t John J. Jr. Goldsmith, Edmund F. Gregory, L t Arthur C. HoUenbach, Louis J., Jr. _ Kirk, Wilfred B. Martin, FVt Arthur R. Miller. Harold E Mott, Capt Frederick E. Nolan, Ens. James J. — Pendergast, Thomas M. -Pye. William F. Schafer, L t Albert M. Sheedy, James P. Siegfried, Robert M. _ Trousdale, Robert V. _ Ullmann, John C. Wilke, Bobert E. Zeiller, Sg t Gerard J. ­$1938 Connor, L t David J. _$  156.50 5.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 20.00 3.00 10.00 100.00 5.00 6.00 25.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 100.00 5.00 25.00 4.00 10.00 25.00 5.00 394.00 10.00  Joseph B., Jr. Morgan, Donald W. Murray, William S. Pick, Robert B. Reppenhagen, Ens. Francis A., HI Rice, Ens. J. Gregory Schramm, Robert F. Stack, Edward F. Sullivan, Joseph J. t1940 Anderson, Edgar H. Aubrey, Pv t F^ncia Y. Barreda, L t Fructuoso G— Begley, James R. Brown, James G. Burke. L t (ig) Edward J. Bums, L t (jg) William G. Byrne, James A, Cleary, William F. Crumley, Capt Tliomas F. Cushing, L t Bernard J. Donohue, L t John V. Else, John G. Fallon, Richard I», Jr. Golden, L t (jg) Philip E... Gonring, L t Matthew N. _ Gunter, L t Francis E.  10.00 10.00 25.00 10.00 5.00 20.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 386.50 5.00 2.00 10.00 5.00 25.00 10.00 26.00 6.00 25.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 2.00 10.00 6.00  Salvatore J. Jr. Larson. John W. Maury, (Scorge J. McDonough, Sg t Frands J. McGowan, Lt. William O. _ Meaney, James J. Heltzer, L t George F. Meyer, L t (ig) Robert A._ Miller, L t (ig) Joseph J. -Moncrief, David B. O'Connor, Sg t Richard C— Puglia, L t Paul F. Redd, L t Aloysius J. Redd, Patrick M. Reiser, Louis A. Richards, Capt John C , Jr. Robidoux, Leo J. Ryan, Eugene J. Schiappacasse, L t Paul J._ Speca, John M. Sposato, Pf c Vincent R. — Stack. Daniel J., Jr. Stack, L t Robert N. Stefanik, L t Ervin A. Van Huflel, Albert F. Walsh, John E. Westhoft, L t Herbert A. Wilkins, L t No d F. Wilson, Ens. William C. .  2.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 6.00 50.00 20.00 5.00 6.00 6.00 6.00 26.00 6.00 6.00 10.00 10.00 2.00 3.00 10.00 3.00 5.00 50.00 10.00 50.00 10.00 3.00 6.00 25.00 5.00  
Shaheen,  Eli  J. _  10.00  Cour, William' J. Currier, Donald F.  5.00 10.00  Hackett Thomas E. Hackman, Paul W.  6.00 25.00  $ 774.00  
S  121.00  Duncan, J. Walter, Jr.  25.00  Halpin, Ens. William F.  _  2.00  1942  
1935 Bookwalter, James W. _$Boyle, Dr. Daniel E. — Carbine, John D. Carton, Capt. Victor S. _ Coen, William M. Crowley, Cornelius J., Jr. Dineen, Dr. Francis A. ™ Fairhead, Maurice J. Kirley. PhiUp H. Elaiber, Robert J., Jr. — Eranzfelder, Arthur L. — Haxwell, Francis R. Morrison, Lt. (ig) Arnold B. O'Reilly, Ens. Eugene J. . Otte, William J. Pons, Capt. Adolphe J. _ Froetor.,nomas G. Bavarino^ Albert J.  10.00 2.00 5.00 25.00 5.00 10.00 25.00 10.00 3.00 5.00 3.00 5.00 8.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 25.00  Eby, Lawrence T. Fishwick, Sg t Edward H.­Graves, L t Thomas J. Healy, Sg t Thomas P. Kavanaugh, Edward S. Kesicke, Francis E. Kowalski, Edmund S. Magee, Jerome B. Maurin. Ernest P., Jr. McCarthy, Ens. William P. Monacelli, Walter J. Mullen, L t Robert J. O'Meara, Dennis K. Radigan, Ihomas J. Reardon, Bernard S. Scannell, L t Richard J. — Schaefer, Pv t Francis X— Schmitz, Pv t John G. Smith, L t Eugene J. Valetich, L t Francis F. __  3.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 50.00 3.00 5.00 25.00 25.00 25,00 25.00 25.00 25.00 1.00 3.00 3.00 10.00  Hart, Pv t Joseph F. Hosty, Thomas E., Jr. Hushek, Daniel J. Joyce, L t John J. Kaczmarek, Ridiard O. Klein, Ens. Howard A. _ _ Linnehan, John J. McKenna, Thomas J. McKeon, L t Joseph M. Meeker, George B. Minogue, lliomas J. Mullen, Ens. Paul J.. Jr. _ Sullivan, Pv t Daniel J. Sullivan, L t Floyd J. Sullivan, Robert G. Urbanski, li t Louis A. Willmann, L t (jg) John B. Witte. L t Frands B. Wurtjebach, Ens. Edward P.  10.00 4.00 10.00 6.00 5.00 2.00 6.00 5.00 10.00 6.00 6.00 10.00 6.00 6.00 6.00 100.00 2.00 2.00 20.00  Bagan, L t (ig) Mervin F.~$ Boyle, L t (jg) Samuel J. -Burby. L t (jg) Leo J. Burkart James A. Cody, L t Thomas P. Courtney, L t Robert F. _ Doyle, Ens. James P. Drake, Pv t Edson J. Fairley, Pv t (George E. Ferry, Pfc. James P. Flynn, L t Joseph J. Foster, L t William M. Frick, L t (jg) James E. _ Gibson, Ens. Frands E. Goeller. Ens. Eugene T. — Guyette. Lt. Donald F. Hale, Robert W. Haller, L t (jg) Edward H. Harrington, Rohert D. Heckman, L t Richard.G. „  6.00 25.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 6.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 6.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 2.00 25.00 2.00 25.00 10.00 10.00  
Ryan, 'muiam F. Sheahan, Walter F. Slattery, John A. Vitter, Albert L . Jr.  5.00 20.00 10.00 10.00  1939 Bossort  Capt  Thomas R. ; -$  368.00 5.00  1941 Alexander,  L t  Edward  ^ t t  421.00 6.00  Hunt Eugene F. Jaeoby, Paul J. Jaskowsid, L t (jg) Benedict J.  2.60 10.00 6.00  
Wiggins, Cyril A. Witchger, Eugene  S.  10.00 25.00  Broscoe, L t (ig) • Edward M.Callaghan, L t John  A.  5.00 10.00  Alfs, Ens, George W.Apone, Pv t Louis W.Aselage, John B.  26.00 26.00 6.00  Kearney, L t (jg) Charles M.Kelldier, WilUam  ' L.  6.00 10.00  
$  266.00  Corcoran,  L t  Joseph  M.  10.00  Auqios,  lAwrence  A.  10.00  Kenedy,  Ens. Tbomas B.  25.00  

The Notre Oame Alumnus 
Knott, L. (JE) Joseph W. - 10.00 Fearon, Ens. John J: 10.00 Warner, John A., Jr. 25.00 
1945 

Lee. Lt («) Leo P. 10.00 Fehllg, Ens. Eugene A. — 2.00 Wetzel, Joseph G. 6.00 
Batoi. Pfc Gmrsa H. » SJ* 

Litizzette, Pv t Stanley V. 5.00 Finneran, L t Robert F. 10.00 
CoBortj, bi . JoMpfa A. Jr. ,XM

Lnthringer, Sgt. John L. „ 5.00 Fitzpatrick, Ens. Francis B. 25.00 ( 442.50 
Kdhher, Pfe. 

HacDonald, Lt. (js) Fitzpatrick, Ens. Joseph W. 25.00 
1944 SteidKB U, Jr. '. 10.0* 
Harrison T. 6.00 Ford, Ens. WilUam E. 10.00 
Beck. Robert K. 2C25 Ward. Cidet John J.. Jr. _ S.iM Hetzger, Lt. (jg) Cans, Frederick A. 10.00 
Boss, William E. 25.00 
10.50 

Francis B. 10.00 Gnlyassy, Nicholas S. 5.00 Bmnetti, Pfe. Boita K _ * 
10.00 Hurray, Lt (ig) Eoy E. _ 10.00 Herzog, Ens. William L. .L. 5.00 1946 
Cashman, Q>L Edward E.­6.00 Nilles, Herbert G. 3.00 Hunt Pvt John D. 2.50 
MeDermott, Sgt Clare H. -t 1-00 

Conway, Michael J. __ _ 3.0O Olson, William K. 25.00 Hunter, Ens. Oliver H. IH-5.00 Dowling, Edward J., Jr. 5.00 
1947 

Fitldn, Sgt Carroll P. 15.00 Hynes, Lt John B. 15.00 
Englert A/C Earl S. -_ 5.00 
Stediadralte, Cadet 

Biehanls, Floyd F. 5.00 Jacob, Joseph E. 5.00 Fieweger, Joseph F. 
LOO 
Rnssell F t 1.00 

Rossi, Ugo D. '. 25.00 Keating, Pvt W. Leo 5.00 Fuetter, Roger L. 2.00 Buppe, Cadet Richard V. _ 5.00 Leahy, John K. 5.00 
Ghiglieri, Bernard J. 5.00 
Subscribcts 

Seanlon. Pvt William E. - 5.00 Linck, Leo L. 6.00 
GriflSn, John A. 10.00 
Ckmn, Mra. William P. _ t 1.00 

SeufTert, Joseph A. 200.00 MacGlements, Ens. John E. 25.00 Kelly, Thomas E. ' 2.00 Gonerty, Jowph A. 2.M Sbeedy, Pf c Kenneth J. — 2.00 Madden, Ens. Robert T. _ 25.00 
Lynch, John A. L-1.00 
Uord. Frauds W. 75.00 

Sbiely. L t Vincent R. 5.00 Haher, L t Ihomas D. 1.00 
Hason, Richard L. 2S.0O 
M.D. Chib of Cleveland 

Treacy, Pfc. John E. 5.00 HcKeon, Pv t John J. 10.00 McLaughlin, Pv t 
. (Sdwlaidiip Fond) 1,000.00 

XJhl, George A. 5.00 McEnight Ens. Henry J. .. 2.00 Thomas E. 10.00 
NJ>. Ohd> of Detroit .

Yaeger, William J. 5.00 Menard. Cpl. Everett W. _ 10.00 Piatt Raymond J. 2.00 
(SdKdarship Fond) 500.00 York, George E. 20.00 Melton, Herbert S. 10.00 O'Brien, Ens. James F. 10.00 
KcCarthy. Joseph P. 25.00 Middendorf. Ens. O'Connor, Pfe. Thomas J-. 20.00 ftritx, John W. 25.00 $ 633.50 William B. 2.00 O'Reilly. Joseph T. 2.00 1943 Facheco, Pvt Leopoldo ^A.„ 5.00 Pons, Pvt Joseph P. 6.00 « La8.60 Baker, Robert O. -$ 25.00 Padesky, Richard E. 35.00 Raley, Charles F. 2.00 Grand Tbtal -«11.424.25 Behr, Pvt John L. 2.00 Foinsatte, Pvt James A. 6.00 Scfaeuch, Joseph W. 1.00 
Previously reported ' .43,2(2.65 Bonyai, Pv t William J. 10.00 Reale, Robert J. 10.00 Snyder, William T. 6.00 
-t64.(M.80 

Brady, William J. 2.00 Reis, Ens. John F. 2.00 Stechschulte, Donald W. __ 1.00 Total Cbristman, Frederick G. 10.00 Rogers, Ens. Robert M. 5.00 Thornton, Pvt Jc*n F. 5.00 
Deduct Dnplieations hss 
1.00 Omissiona • 1.(82.20 

Conley, Ens. Edward T. 6.00 Roney, Ens. Edward C. 25.00 Urruela, Charles H. • 
Dontel, Cpl. Frederick a 10.00 Russell, John C. 2.00 Grand Net Total Faggan, Joseph E. 6.00 Tallett, A/C John H. 25.00 « 189.25 to June 1, 1944 -(53,004.60 
FATHER ILL'S GOLDEN JUBILEE Father 111 at one time was prefect in Hall. Ensign's commissions were award­Sorin and Walsh Halls. "It was good," ed to 1,087. Capt J. Richard Barry, 
The golden jubilee anniversary of the 

he said. "You get to know boys." U.S.N., commander of the Notre Dame ordination to the priesthood of Rev. 
naval program, presided. The address Bernard J. Ill, C.S.C, professor of Ger­Father HI is one of the most enthusi­to the class was delivered by Capt. 
man at Notre Dame, was observed at astic sports fans at the University and James L. Halloway, U.S.N., Washing­the University April 20 when Father was among the spectators in the spring ton, D. C, of the bureau of naval per­111 celebrated Mass in the Sister's chapel of 1887 when the University of Michi­
SQimd. 
bdiind Sacred Heart church. gan football team came to Notre Dame to teach the Irish the game. Father 111 
Father 111 is the oldest active member said that two teams were formed and IMPOSTOR INDIOH) 

of the University faculty and was head they let Notre Dame use some Michi­George C. Rahm, Jr., a private in the 
of the Department of Modem Language 
gan men and had players from both 
Army, one of three men accused in a 29­
until he resigned in October, 1939, to be sides on each team. 
count indictment charging them with succeeded by Mr. Earl F. Langwell, pro­the theft of $26,000 from small investors 
fessor of French. , Father HI sees most of the home bas­and the attonpted stealing of $91,000 ketball and baseball games, too. 
In 1885 Father 111 came to Notre from an imirart and export company, is Dame from Cincinnati, O., to study for Father 111 was ordained in Sacred the man who impersonated William the priesthood after completing his col­Heart church at Notre Dame and cde-Shakespeare, '37, for several years lege work at St. Joseph college in that brated his first Mass at St. Francis whUe Bill was in South America. The city. He entered the novitiate at Notre church in Cincinnati. He studied at impersonation caused the gamine and Dame and in 1887 began his first teach­Harvard and Cornell and was president well-known Shakespeare (whom the im­ing duties when as a novice he was of St. Joseph's college in Cincinnati I)ostor resembles) no little embarrass­asked by Rev. Thomas Walsh, C.S.C, ment, and alumni ouj^t to know the 
from 1907 to 1914. He also has served 
president of the University, to teach circumstances to disjiel any jiossible 
briefly at Portland University, at Port­
German. holdover criticism. Rahm admitted his 
land, Ore. 
guilt and has been held without baiL The erection of every residence hall 
For 17 years Father 111 has beai 

on the campus has been ^vitnessed by 
chaplain of the Sisters of the Notre 
Father 111. Recalling when they erected BENEFAaOR DIES 
Dame community. 
Sorin Hall, as the first experiment in Dr. Deno O'Connor, prominent Chica­residence halls at boarding schools, Fa­go physician, known to many Notre ther 111 said that they were skeptical FIFTH MIDSHIPMEN CLASS Dame monogram men for his treatment about the success of the venture. From Fifth class of midshipmen in the of George Melinkovich and Dan Han-the number of residence halls later 
Notre Dame school was commissioned ley and his interest in Notre Dame ath­erected on the campus the experiment on Wednesday, May 31, in the usual im­letics over a long period of years, died must have been a success. Father 111 pressive ceremonies in the Navy Drill on April 18 in Chicago. 
agrees. 



ALUMNI CLUBS 
CHICAGO 
RidMid L. Phelan, '28, Trust Dcpt.. Chica­co Title & Trust Co., 69 W. WashinBton St, Pres.; Thomas S. McCabe, '22, 1448 Rasdier Ave , Sec. 
The club held a verj- successful Universal Night celebration on April 17 at the Knicker­bocker Hotel. At the speaker's table were nu­merous leading industrial figures in the area. Edward J. Dojie, president of Commonwealth Edison Company and a lay trustee of the Uni­versity, was toastmastcr. The principal speaker was Father John J. Cavanaugh, vice-president of the University, who spoke on present trends in education which are being clcsrly studied by the University. 
Lt. Georee Meltzer, '41. a Chicago boy. gave an interesting recital of his experiences as navi­gator on some 23 missions over Germany and ficcupied Europe. George is still recuperating from serious wounds. 
Among other guests were Capt. J. Richard Barry, USK, the commanding officer of the Naval School at Notre Dame. CoL Chester L. Fordncy of the U.S. Marines. Neil C Hurley, Jr., president of the Independent Pneumatic Tool Company. William R. "Red" Maher of Hallicrafters Com­pany. Byron V. Kanaley, John C. Tally and William J. Corbett, trustees. 
The very splendid attendance and arrange­
ments are attributable to the prodigious efforts 
of Chairman Jim Lewis and his committee con­
sisting of President Richard Phelan, Elmer Lay-
den, William Kearney, Joe ShcUcy, Bob Irmiger 
and Ed Gonld. • Tom McCabe 
CENTRAL OHIO 
Lous C Bbuphr* *33, 2357 Lirinsrston Ave.* Colnmbas^ Pres.: Daniel F. Cannon, '30, 8 East Broad St., Colnmbas, Sec. 
Lonis C. **Bud" Murphy, president, Dan Can­non, secretary, and Lt. Col. Bob Riordan, former University registrar, now stationed at Fort Hayes, near Columbus, all sent word of the club's luncheon get-together on April 17. Since an evening meeting w-as impracticable due to wartime conditions, the club observed U-N.D. Night at noon, in the University Club, Colum­bus. Col. Riordan was a special guest, along vnih Capt. Gerald Bischoff. chaplain at the Lock­bourne Air Base. 
Present from the ciub were Bud Murphy, Joe Ryan. Dan Cannon, John Fontana, Bill Dore, T. 
J. Sheclian^ P. J. Broderick. Don Hamilton. Dr. 
J. C Flanasan, Rev. H. £. Mattingly. Ray Eicfaenlanb and E. G. Cantwell. 
Club members meet for lunch every Monday in the University Club. Out-of-town visitors are particularly invited. 

CLEVELAND 
Pi:i « J. O'Connor, '23, 2123 Lamb:rton 
Rd., Pres.; James R. B^glcy, 2423 Overlook 
Rd., Sec 
The club held its annual meeting May 15. New officers are: president. Pierce J. O'Connor, '28: vice-president, HuEh E. Ball, '32; secretary. James R. Bcsley, '40; treasurer. Norman J. Mc­I.eod, '29. 
Thomas E. Roche, '39. is a first lieutenant with the 38th Engineers. Bob Hackman, captain with USMCR. saw Lt. Tom Hullizan and Charley Macalaso recently. 
Dick Prezebel is a first lieutenant. Army Air Corp. in India. Capt. Tony Andovar, home for Universal Notre Dame Night, said he saw Lt, Dan Brick, '34, in New York City. Dick McSbna­gal is a lieutenant at Ft. Schuyler, New York City. 
Mothers of Notre Dame men honored at Uni­versal Notre Dame Night were Mesdames G«l­yassy, Leppic, Mazanec, Horak, Dnbbs, PreKbd, Payne, HcGroder, (Howard) Miller, ReMr, Bringman, and Grisanti and, among the wives. Mesdames Prokop, Viktotyn and Crawford. 
Correction please — it's Jim Becley married. 
Lt. John is enjoying single bliss at the Chicago 
Athletic aub . 
James R. Bexlcy 
DAYTON 
W. Edmnnd S'-ea, '.3 , 2316 Davce CircCe, Pres.; Ames K. Clry, ex. '14, 818 Callahan Bark Bdg., Ser. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated by the club with a strg dinner meeting at the Biltmore Hotel. 
W. Edmund Shea was elected president and Amos Clay, secretary. Col. James F. Early of the Air Service Command, graduate of West Fbint and guest speaker, addressed us on "West Point. Notre Dame and the War." Major F. C. Fre­chette. Catholic chaplain at Patterson Field, ^loke a few words, anticipating special Hotha*s Day ser\-ices at Patterson Held- After the dinner mo­tion pictures of the Notre Dame-Gecrgia Tech football game of last season were shown. 
Among the Notre Dame alumni present were: Andrew Aman, E. Walter Baaman, Peter Becat­sterboer, Lt. C<d. Salratore Bontcmpo, Sylrester Bums, Lt. James Carroll, Amos Clay, Walter C. Dickerson, Leo FettiE, Welb Finnesan. Capt. Harr}- Francis, Robert W. Kennedy, Fred LSSSIK na, Encene A. Mayl, Joseph B. Hnrphy, Frank Pachin, Dr. Carlos J. Sawyer, W. Edmand Shea, William L. Struck, James L. Trant and some civilian and military guests. 
Red Shea and Col. Bontempo wera co-ehairmen of a most successful evening. 
William L. Stra^ 
DENVER 
A. L. Bonds, '26, 1124 Holly St., Pres.; Eagene S. B'i:h, '34, 1550 Onsida St., Sec 
Denver's mile-high alumni obser\'ed 1944's Uni­versal Notre Dame Night with an "open house" get-together for Notre Dame men in service sta­tioned in Denver and the dsds of all our Denver Notre Dame men. We met in the new pine-paneled rooms of the Knights of Columbus club. There was a fine turn-out of dads and Army officers and men. all of whom helped to make our observance of U.N.D. Night one of the most successful in the records of the Denver club. 
Of our 48 local N.D.ers in serviiM, Lt. Hany Lawrence, was the only one on hand to join in the celebration. 
Newly elected officers for the new year are president, Al Doads; vice-president, Al Frants secretary*. Gene Blish, treasurer, Jim 
directors: Fred Gusharsl, Charlie Harkell and Jade Shcehan. 
Among the visiting alumni at the Denver meet­ing were: George Frszier, New Rochelle, N. Y.; JadE Barry, *41, Wisconsin: Charlie Cash, '28, Iowa; Vincc Trainer, '40, New York; Jim Fisher, Indianapolis; John Flynn, '23. Cleveland; Phil Duileavy, '32. Chicago; Harry Locke, '32. Chi­cago. 
Bart O'Hara and Charlie Haskell were in charge of plans and arrangements for the eve­ning. 
From nearby Buckley Field, Chaplain Norman Johnson, CS.C , '28. tells us that most of the N.D.ers there whom he has met have been trans­ferred and that "only the shepherd remains." 
Father Ed Murray, CS.C., '34, chaplain at Camp Carson's "Ilmberwolf Division, gets his N.D.ers together in the Mountaineer office: Gnido Alexander, Ray Fls^nn, Leland Howard, Bob Pohle. Joe NewBeld, Bill Hara, Tom Tad­ross and Warren Kane Capt. "Doc" Liescr is acting regimsntal surgeon. 
Gene Blish 
DETROIT 
Henry J. CUrk, '30, 220 East Merrill St., Birmincham, Mich.. Pres.; Gcorce B. Mor­ris, '39, 610 Blaine Ave., Detroit, Sec 
TO DETROIT SERVICE MEN 
If yoa arc in the armed forces, any­where, the Detroit Clnb wants to have yon on the mailinr list for "Notre Dame In Service," a monthly dnb news-letter to and for service men and their parents or wiveiw Send fall service address to: Notre Dame in Service Committee 632 Fiiher Bide., Detroit 2. 
The first meeting under the new officers was held at the Fort Shelby Hotel on Feb. 21. Paul Rist, chairman, assisted by Edmond DeBscne and Charles Kaiser, representing the engineers, ar­ranged an excellent program. Among the 75 members and guests present was Capt. Ray Fitz­gerald, now at Romulus Air Base near Detroit. who has been ferrying planes around the world for two years. Major Hugh Corrcll is now at Romulus too. 
The annual retreat was held during the week­end of Feb. 25-27 at Manresa, Jesuit Retreat house north of Detroit. Thirty attended. Art Cronin was the chairman, taking over again for Governor Harry Kelly, who was retreat chair­man for so many years. 
John W. Babcock, assistant U.S. district at­torney, was the principal speaker at the meeting on March 20 in the University Club. Tom Kava­nash was chairman, assisted by Marv Martin. Universal N.D, Night on April 17 turned out the largest crowd of the year. Dr. Harvey Brown and J**"* Brennan were the committee, the place was the Fort Shelby, and the speaker was Father 
T. M. Kenny, of the Shrine of the Little Flower, who discussed Eire's neutrality. 
Our club news letter to our members in service (nearly 100 mailed each month) continues to be a large success, thanks in large measure to the heroic and talented efforts of its editor. Bill Fkry. The club's thanks go abundantly to Bill. 
Georse Morris 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 

FORT WAYNE 
Looia F. Niezer. '29* 303 Old First Na­
tional Bank Bid?*. Prcs.; Martin Torlrarr. 
'32, 1142 Westorer Rd.. Sec-

Lather M. •*Mike" Swy«ert, '27. judge of the northern Indiana U.S. district court, was the chief speaker as the club met on Universal N.D. Night for dinner in the Fort Wayne Athletic Club. Fifty were present-
Lonis F. Niezer was elected president of the club to succeed Henry Hasley; Norbert Sclienkel, retiring treasurer, was named vice-president; Martin Torborv was elected secretary; and John Williams, treasurer. Byron Hayes and Maurice De Wald were the retiring vice-president and secretary, respectively. Football movies were shown. 

GOGEBIC RANGE 
Joseph G. Raineri, Jr., ex. *31, 1307 Second Are., N., Harley, Wis., Prcs.; Engene R. Zinn, '39, 10S-« Broffan BIdg., Imnwood, Mich., Sec 

2nd Lt. Robert O'Donnell, ex. '29, was placed on the inactive list by the United States Army about three weeks ago- At present he is in New York City. 
Eddie Simonich, 'S9. is back in the home town awaiting his call to service. 
G. W. (Doc) Harrisaon, '33, is in England, and recently was promoted to the rank of captain in the Army Medical Corps. 
Tom McKevitt, *32, was recently commissioned a lieutenant (jg) in the Navy. 
I received a surprise call from Art Gregory, '3G, about two months ago. He's a first lieuten­ant now. His outfit was on winter manuevers, and God's country really impressed him. Art gave me Joe Gregory's address. Joe, ex. '35. left N.D. to join the Jesuit order, and is now in his tenth year of Jesuit life. He expects to be ordfiined in June, 1947. His present address is Regis College, Denver. 
Gene Zinn 


INDIANAPOLIS 
Walter J. Stuhldreher, '22, 215 Circle Tower Bldg., Pres.; George A. Smith, ex. *11. 4007 Park Ave., Sec. 

"It is high time for an official admission of the fact that 'morale* is no adequate substitute for 'morals,' Dr. Clarence "Pat" Manion. dean of College of Law, asserted on April 17 as he addressed the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis at its celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night in the Knights of Columbus auditorium. His subject was "The Pagan Pattern for World Demoralization." 
"Stripped of its ethics," he said, "civilization becomes a depraved, disorderly and despairing mob. Such a civilization has lost its morals. It has, in short, become demoralized. 
"Nevertheless," he continued, "the drive for complete demoralization is the popular passion of the hour. On both sides of all fighting fronts 'morale builders' are energetically talking about such concepts as freedom, democracy, survival and liberation in completely demoralizing terms. 
"Such studied secularism makes a mockery of the high purpose which justifies the bloody fight we are waging throughout the world." 
Ttie Very Reverend Monsignor Henry F. Dugan, chancellor of the diocese of Indianapolis, spoke on "The Responsibilities of Notre Dame Men To­day and Tomorrow." He cited the Legion of Men. a Catholic organization which has been so active in welfare work in Indianapolis. 
"It is an organization that demands spiritual discipline," he said. 
Arthur C Shea, past president of the club, presided and introduced the speakers to the 500 who attended. 
Italy (new club) 
The Notre Dame Club of Italy is organized. Left to right, in a pic­ture taken after the first Commnn­ion-breakfast, are Sgt. Robert F. Coleman, '42, S/Sgt. John Cackley, '37, T/4 Charles Gehres, '42, Major John V. Hinkel, '29 (wearing the Purple Heart and the Silver Star as the result of action at Cassino), T/Sgt. Frank Shay, '35, the Cardi­nal's secretary, Capt. Edward J. But­ler, '34, Ed Tighe, '23, Lt. Col. John 
F. Laboon (honorary member of club^member of the Athletic Board at Carnegie Tech and long a friend of Knute Rockne) and Capt. John 
W. O'Neil, '34. 
May 16, 1944 

The Notre Dame Club of Italy is now organ­ized and is a soini; concern. Our iirst formal get-toeether was last Sunday, when we fittingly commenced our activities with a Communion-breakfast. It is particularly significant that our club was born on Mothers' Day. We were hon­ored in having a Mass presided over by His Emi­nence, the Cardinal of Naples. 
Present for the Communion-breakfast were those shown in the picture enclosed. Also mem­bers of the club, but not present for the first meeting, were 1st Lt. Harry Erd. ex. '42, Major John Mohardt. '21, (who had just left for the states on rotation), T/5 Frank Ernst. *40, Prt. Robert J. Nesbit, '33, T/4 Chris Qoinn. '41. T/3 Joe Beck, '35, Pvt. Bill Gwinn, '44. Lt. (jc) Jade Walsh, '38, and Lt. (JE) Ed Wcinfartncr, '42. Our chaplain is Father Joe Bany, C.S.C., '29, who is one of the best known and roost admired' chaplains in Italy. And. of course, there are a lot of other N.D. men in Italy of whom we haven't so far heard. * * 
Our first regular meeting is scheduled for to­morrow night in a censored city . . . despite the difficulties we are going ahead with our plans. One is to give either a tablet or statue to the Cardinal's new church — which is an exact half size replica of St, Peter's — in honor of Our Lady from the Notre Dame Club of Italy. We will have monthly Communion-breakfasts and weekly meetings. 
Bob Colenuui. '42, Secretary 



LOS ANGBIS 
Ibrtia R. DOr, Jr.. ex. tS. Fornax Oil Coapaay. SIS Ckapaua. Pies.; Hetkezt C. Gaeke. ex. "St. Sec 

Universal Notre Dame Nizht found ns iritboat any officers. Jaha "Jaice'* Catkeny, the then president, beine in the Navy, stationed at San Diego, mke Sfciaaon, the secretaiy, sttU in Ari­zona, the only officer was Ed Ashe. Beeanae of the faet that Los Angeles is in a labor shortage area and becanse of ration points and the in­creased number of service men around this area, hotels or clubs will not accept reservations for a public meeting. 
Accordingly, several of the brothers got to­gether, principally the ex-presidents of the eMb, and held a meeting at my house. There were present Ed Aihr, who presided as president. Fiaads Wallaee, Bill (Mk, .CamU Olleaia, Joe Sattaer. Harry Deaay, Frank Bicalia. Lt. Jack ChcTisBy, Lawa Beiaidi. TMB Hcaia. Chatlie Caaack. Ed Caaaiagfcasi, Hetfc Gacke, Hsttia Daly, Jim KdTy. Paal MeCeffrey. Ed Me-MSIMB, Veiae Kidurd, A. A. Scott and yours truly. 
After a social hour, courtesy of Louis Beraxdi. and a Dntch supper, it was decided that the members present should be considered a commit­tee to rejuvenate the Los Angeles Notre Dame Club. Accordingly, an election was held. Ifaitia . Daly was elected president: Loais Bcraidi, vice-president: Heih Gade, secretary; and Ed Caa­
ningkam, treasurer. 
Lt. Jack Chevigny. of the U.S. Marines, re­ported that the Fifth Division of the U.S. Ma­rines has with it Lt. Marty Brill. Capt. CBppir Sautk and Lt. Harold Wright. 
A. A. Scatt was re-elected judge of the Supe­rior Court and now presides in one of the juve­nile departments. Senator Downey, who was nom­inated on the Democratic ticket for U.S. senator, has as his campaign manager Mike Fanniag, a former student at Notre Dame. Henry Dock­weiler, '12. ran second for district attorney. Bill Cook, of the class of 1916, and Joe Gallai^r. of the class of 1906, were managers of the cam­paign for William Bonelli, defeated for nomina­tion on the Bepubliean ticket for U.S. senator. 
AI Howard is now in the U.S. Maritime Serv. ice, having forsaken his duties as auditor for the cafes who make cafe society in New York. Dr. Frank Nolan who, in civil' life was a police sur­geon and operator of a private clinic, was recent­ly seen in San Francisco. He had spent a number of months in Alaska. He is a warrant officer in the U.S. Army. 
Leo Ward 


ST. LOUIS 
•slsad N. Daacs. "M, I1S4 Locast. Pns.: Loais C. FehBr, •» , 7S71 BacUagkaa Dr., Sec. 

Our Universal N.D. Night at the University Chib was a surprisingly successful affair. We had two War Front pictures, and they were really good.-'Joe Slwa entertained the assem­blagew 
We had many N.D. service men from Scott Field, Lambert Air Field and the JeSerson Bar­racks. 
All the ol' timers still make the affairs. Al­though the armed services took the better portion of oar m&nbership, we feel we have done a good iob in the past year by holding our membership pretty well intact. 

SPRINGFIELD. ILLINOIS 
Our club hasn*t functioned, officially or other-vase, in the past two years due to the fact that all of our elected officers and most of our mem­bership have "gone to -nrar." However, thore of us left here did get together at the Elks Club on Universal Notre Dame Night "We did not at­tempt a program. The following were present: HmroU Stvne, CUre Hafel. Richard Necson, Kir­by Shafer, Floyd Miller, and myself. 
We hope to reorganize the club. If the outlook is bright enough, we will try to get the mem­bers together for another "gabfest," which will determine the future of our club for the dura­tion. 
Last week the tentative list of speakers sched­
uled to appear in Springfield in connection with 
the local Te Deum Forum, for 1944-1945, was 
released, and Key. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., 
was included. We sincerely hope that our club 
will be functioning so that we can take an active 
part and assist in making this meeting a huge 
success. 
Charlie Corcoran 


WASHINGTON. D. C 
Leo F. Hullin, ex. '22, Wardman Park Hotel. 
Pre*.; Jowph L. Borda, ex. *33, 1734 'T " St . 
N.W., Sec 

The annua! Rockne Communion Breakfast was held at Holy Cross College, Brookland. D. C, on * March 26. Rev. Robert F. Sweeney, C.S.C, was the celebrant at the Mass. Twenty-one members of the Notre Dame club attended the Mass and received Holy Communion for our beloved "Rock." 
Seven members of the club made a retreat at Manresa-on-the-Sevem, Jesuit Retreat House, near Annapolis, Md. This was the fourth annual club retreat. Despite the small representation, we were very much pleased, considering the condi­
tions at the present time. Our main object is to 
keep the retreat idea alive so as to make it one 
of the leading club functions when conditiohs 
return to normal again. 
Sam E. Kiduid 


ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 
Joseph H. Boland.. SUtion WSBT; SMtk B^nd. Ind, Pres.; Richard C. KaczMsr^ '40. 317 Napoleon Blvd.. Soath Bend, IMI^ Sec 
At a meeting of the board of directors, held on April 3, the following w^ere elected to terms of one year: honorary president. Max Adler; diap­lain. Rev. Hattliew Sclinmadier, C<S.C.; presi­dent Frank OcUboffen; vice-president Eaccae. O'Brien; secretary, Ridiard C KacxMwefc; treasurer. Albert McGann. By an amendment to the club by-laws it was provided that the newly elected officers take office on Universal Notre Dame Night 

Universal Notre Dame Night was observed by the club on April 17, in the LaSalle Hotel, with 150 in attendance, including the wives of mem­bers and guests. The master of ceremonies. Wal­ter Langford. retiring president, read a message from our University president. Rev. J. Hatli O'DonneU, C.S.C. who was unable to attend. Father Sheedy read interesting letters from Notre Dame men in service, and was then joined by those in attendance in a prayer for Notre Dame men who have died in the service of their country. Father Sdhomacher related an interesting history of Notre Dame. Ber|iard J. Voll. chairman of the recently organized na­tional placement committee in the Alumnt Asso­ciation, outlined the initial steps taken by the committee to aid Notre Dame servicemen gain employment at the end of the war. Artliar Kappe of Hancock, Mich., father of several alumni, who was in attendance at the University in 1879, was presented to the club, as were the newly elected officers and directors of the club. 
Frank Odtlkoffen. newly elected president, re­signed the office on May 24, when he announced that he was moving to Muskegon. Mich., to take a new position as assistant to the president of the Kaydon Engineering Corp. Frank had been sales and advertising manager of the Bantam Bear­ings Division of the Torrington Company. South Bend, for many years, and an ardent hard­working member of the club. 
Hie directors elected Joe Boland. lately re­turned to South Bend, to succeed Frank. Joe was elected president of the club in the spring of M3, then resigned soon after because of his move to Chicago. 
The club announced on May 20 that Ralph E. Witadi, South Bend, a graduate of Central High School, had been selected by a committee of judges as the 1944 recipient of the club scholar­ship. Ralph became eligible to receive $880 from the club over eight terms in the University, as well as additional aid from the school in the form of campus employment He is the son of hf Witadd, ex. '19. 
The judges selected Ralph after interviewing 10 applicants representing various high schools in St Joseph County. 
Ridiard C. Kaczmarek 

yOUNGSTOWN 
Charies B. CaAwa, Jr^ '11. 18K Coraudo 
Avb. Pns.: Clanae* T. Tct ^ SK..fc.-. 
'M, 215 Gnaada An , Sec 

Seventeen members attended the tTniversal Notre Dame Night celebration at the Steel City club-I was fortunate that it occurred duringr my furlough and I was able to see the old gang again. 
Rev. John J. Reynolds, CS.C., assistant pastor at Immaculate Conception Church, was guest of honor. Several members knew Father Reynolds as their history prof, or prefect in S t Ed's or Iforrissey, so it was quite a reunion. 
D«ii Allen, '38, former Irish eager, now with the FBI, attended his first Youngstown meeting. The legal profession was represented by State Representative John J. BacUey, Georce Prokop, and AI Mastriana. while George Kelley and Dick Riley took time off from their duties at the "Vin­dicator." 
Old standbys on hand were Joe Wallace, Walter Vahey, Paal Kane. Gerry and Iran Wolf, Steve Repaikey, Chaiiie Cashwa, John Moran and Eli LeaneDi. 
At that time Lt. Chack HeCab: had compieted eight missions over Europe and Gate Moran had just arrived at a naval air base in Newfoundland. 
Pete Sheefaan 



MRS. F. N. M. BROWN DIES 
Mrs. Ruth Lee Brown, wife of Prof. 

F. N. M. Brown, head of the aeronauti­cal engineering department, died on May 26 in South Bend. Mrs. Brown was seriously ill while her husband was in China last winter on a mission for the state department. She is survived by her husband, her father, and a sister. She was a talented musician, a supervisor of music in the Detroit schools, and a prominent member of the faculty wives club. 
Present for the recent Communion-breakfast of the Washington, D. C , Club at Holy Cross College were this group. Included are Joe Borda, Bill Kari, Father Robert Sweeney, C.S.C., Chaplain; John Baczenas, Bill Greer, Leo Mnlqiwen, Tom McKevitt, Leo Mullin, Lt. Bill Kenefick, Capt. Joe McNamara, Sgt. An­thony KuharicJi, Lt. Steve Miller, George Howard, Jr., Sam Richard, Dr. James 
A. Flynn, Lt. Col. B. G. Du Bois, Adam John Wolf, John Braddock, Lt. Dick Donoghne, Lt. Joe McCabe, Rev. Christopher 0*To6le, C.S.C., Rector of Holy Cross College. 

FOR GOD. COUNTRY. NOTRE DAME 
IN GLORY EVERLASTING 
PREVIOUSLY REPORTED Dead Miuing Captured 90 22 11 
The Religious Bulletin reports the death of Albert A. Wallace, '32, who died at home in Davenport, la., while on a furlough. The ALUMNUS has no other details. 
Capt. John F. Finn, '35, San Antonio, Texas, has died in foreign service ac­cording to marking on mail returned to the Alumni Office. No other details are available. 
1st Lt. Raymond J. Shea, '35, mem­ber of the ground force in England, went out with a mission and was lost in the English Channel, according to the report from the chaplain of his field. Notre Dame is proud of L t Shea for the things which the chaplain said of his fervent faith and his splendid example. Ray's wife and a coming baby, the chap­lain's note adds, survive him and were foremost in the high Christian life he practiced. Ray was a graduate of the Department of Physical Education. He was assistant coach of the Springfield, Mass., High School of Commerce. He en­tered the infantry and transferred to the air corps. He was graduated from O.C.S. at Miami Beach in 1942. He served at several New England bases, was ordered to the army intelligence school at Har­risburg and served at Mitchell Field un­til he went to England last November. He was married in June, 1943, in Har­risburg to Ann Bartley. 
Lieut. Frank R. Huisking, A.B., '37, Huntington, L. I., member of a distin­guished Notre Dame family, was lost in action in Italy in April. He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. HuisWng, and the brother of Charles L., Jr., '34; Sgt. WUliam W., '34, USA; Lt. Edward P., '37, USMC, and Lt. Richard V., '39, USN. Three sisters also survive. Frank was an economics major at Notre Dame. He was a trustee of the Metropolitan Club, and participated in interhall ath­letics. 
L t James R. "Bunny" Veeneman, '40, Chicago, was killed on April 10 in a training flight at Santa Ana, Calif. He had been in the Navy and Matihe Air Corps 22 months at the time - of his death. Surviving him are his wife, Ger­aldine, a bride of three months, his fath­er Harry A. Veeneman, three brothers in service. Ensign Robert S., Pvt. Harry 
A. Jr., and S/Sgt. John K. Two sisters also survive. Bunny attended DePanl University before coming to Notre Dame. Writing in connection with his death, his chaplain. Rev. Bede Scully, says: "Lt. Veeneman was a credit to the Church and a splendid example of what the training at Notre Dame will do for a man. May I commend his soul to your prayers...." A letter to the family fiwm his commanding officer also praised his ability as a naval aviator and his per­sonal qualities as a member of his squadron. 
Lt. Theodore Henke, '42, Oakmont, Pa., was killed in action in April, but the ALUMNUS has not received details of location, or other circumstances. 
2nd Lt. Walter L Koness. '43, Chica­go, was killed in action on Aug. 27, while serving with the Army Air, Forces. The ALUMNUS received confirmation of this from his sister, Miss Charlotte Ko­ness, 7819 Colfax Ave., Chicago 49. 
2nd Lt. Henry C. Priester, '43, Dav­enport, la., was killed in the Aleutians in February. He was the pilot of a P-38 fighter. He failed to return from a bomb­ing of Paramushiro, Jap nav^ base. Lt. Priester left Notre Dame in his junior 
LT. HENBY C. PRiEsnx, 
year to become an aviatioii cadet. He was commissioned at Chandler, Am. , in April, 1943. Fonr brofhen, indndins Edward now at Notre Dame, twor sisteis, and his parents survive him. 
A.ecording to a list of easnaltics in a national magazine last July, I—i« L. Kaat, '44, Haywood, HI. was killed in the service before' that time, the ALDM-. NHS has been informed, withont further detaO or eonfinnation. Lonis had apent but one year at Notre Dame before en­tering the war in its early stages; 
S/Sgt. Gaors* S. Hawlton, '44, Elgin, HI., taO gnnner. on an Engtish-based Liberator bomber, was killed in action over Germany on May 8, his parents have been informed. George received his sflver wings after completing his junior year at Notre Dame and his air training at Las Vegas, Nev. He was gradnated from Marmion Military Academy in 1940. 
MISSING IN ACTION 
The ALUMNUS is happy to report that Lt. Edward B. KmiU*, '41, listed as missing in the April issne, surprised his family by walking into the Sonth Bend farm home just nine days after they had been informed that he was missing. Forced down in Yugoslavia in a liber­ator bomber on March 17, the crew made its way by a naturally nhdedg­nated underground to safety. It was Lt. Konkle's first mission over enemy teiri­toiy after his arrival in the Eoropean theater in January. 
Lt. J<An W. McLaacUim '39, Alton, HI., is reported missing in action over Holland in March, 1944. He was award­ed the Air Medal after completing five missions over occupied Europe. 
Lt. Jolia E. Walsh. Jr.. '39, Chicago, is missing since April 18 after a raid on Beriin, according to word from his fath­er. It was John's fifth mission over the continent. A graduate of Mt. Carnid High school before enteriiig-Notre Dame, John was a veteran of three years in the Army, and was navigator on a B-17. 
OMII M Edward Raynolds, '41, Meant Carmel, HL, is reported by the ReKgmu Bulletin as missing oiver Italy sinee April 18. 
Zad Lt. WilUaa R. Wrisht. Jr.. '42, who spent a year at Notre Dame after two years at Wabash, is missing ovier FVance, according to word received by 

his wife and parents, South Bend. He also has an infant daughter. Bill was commissioned in Sept., 1943 in the A. 
A. F. 
Little hope is held for Hercules Bere­
oloc, '41, whose plane crashed in the Southwest Pacific in April. The former monogram football player and track star, was a naval aviator lately assigned to the Pacific theater. He is one of seven boys, two others of whom are also in service. 
2nd Lieut. John B. Hynes, '43, West 
Roxbury, Mass., is missing according to a letter returned to the Alumni Office from his base in England, by the cap­tain of his squadron. 
Lieut. John Guldan, '44, Sleepy Eye, Minn., was missing in action over Aus-
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
tria since April, 1944, according to word from the Prefect of Religion's office. A later word reports him a" German pris­oner. 
Lt. James W. White, ex. '43, Danville, HI., was, like Lt. Ed Kunkle, reported in the April ALUMNUS as missing in action, the victim of a raid over Aus­tria. But shortly after the April issue appeared, Jim White appeared in Dan­ville, having made his way for almost two months through German-occupied territory. He could not, of course, make known many of the details of his escape. He returned through Africa and South-America. 
Jim has been awarded the Air Medal and has been recommended for the Dis­tinguished Flying Cross and the Purple Heart. He expected, after a month's rest, to get back into the fight. 
ADDITIONAL SERVICE MEN 
(Including names received and classified up to June 1, 1944) 

4,727 

former Notre Dame students are in the service of their country ac­cording to Alumni Office records as of June 1, 1944. (Obviously not included in this figure are the many former students — probably several hundred — who are in service but who haven't notified the Alumni Office accordingly). 
Aliowd. Ridisrd G.. Jr., ex. '46, Pre-Meteorology, AAITTD, International House. Room 519, Uni­versity of Chica^, Chicag:o 37, 111. 
Admms. Hnxh C., '43, 2nd Lt., Co. A. 135th Bn., Camp Hood, Texas Abern, John J., ex. '44, Pvt., 93rd TSS. Bks. 824. 
Scott Field, HI. Alfs, GeoiKc W., '41, Ensign Allen, Raymond G., ex. '44, A/0, 55 FTD Sqdn. 
G. Palmer Field, Bennettsrille, S. C. Andres, John J., '44 Anthony, David H., ex. '45, Pfc, 627 TSS Bis 
1654 Truax Field. Madison 7, Wis. AmoM. Leonard L., ex. '46, AjC Class 440, SAAF, Stuttgart, Ark. 
Ariibaocfa, Rnsaell G., Jr., ex. '44, A/C, Gp. A. Sqdn. 2. Class 44 G 65th AAFFTD, Decatur. Ala. 
Atwater, John S., ex. '45, A/0 (2148) 55th AAF­ITD Sqdn. G, Palmer Field. Bennettsville. S. C. 
Bacon, James B., '37, Ensign. D-V(S) USNTS, Fort Schuyler, New York City Biker. Bobert O., '43, Pvt., 379th Ord. MAM 
Co., Gamp Howze, Texas Bamhrick. William S., ex. '30 Baikn. Walter P., ex. '45, A/C. USNR, 42-L2-101 
Stacy Hall, USN Pre-Flight, Chapel Hill, N. O. Bamett, John E., ex. '45, NROTC Bastyr. GeorKe P., ex. '46, USNTS, Great Lakes, 
III. 
Baty, John R., '44, Ensign Beck, Joseph G., '35, T/3. In service in Italy Bereolos, HercnIes, '42, Lt (ig) "Missing in 
action" after plane crash. 
Biegen, Robert J., '44, Midshipman, USNB, U.S. Prairie State, 135th St & North River, Section 15, New York City 
Biger, Rev. John T., ex. '33. RCAF, Sta. Tren­ton. Ontario, Canada (MPO 303). Boland, Rev. Frank J., C.S.C., '18. Lt, 114 Bn. Lido Beach, N. Y. (Chaplain). 
Borkowski. John J., '44, Pf c USMCR, Co. A, Candidates School, CCS Marine Bks., Quantico, Va. 
Brady, William J., '43, RT 2/C. U.S. Navy. 
Breen, Ridurd J., '31, Pfc., 115th AAF Base Unit Section G. (Bomb) (M). Box 75, God-man Field, Ky. 
Brooks, Robert E., '43, Ensign, USNR. 202 Twin 
Oaks Rd., Akron, O. Brown. James G.. '40, APO, New York City. Byrnes, Robert J., '44, (Awaiting call—USNR). Burnett, Robert A., '42, U.S. Army, Santa Ana 
Army Air Base, Santa Ana, Calif. Carrico, William E., '44, V-12 Navy, Co. F, Bn. 
2. Bks. 12, Camp MacDonough, Plattsburg, 
N. Y. Cassidy, T. Donald, '41, Ensign, Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Maine. Clark, James R., ex. '43. AyC. USAAF. 910 Ntr. Gp., Flight 711A, AAFTC 1, Miami Beach, Fla. 
Coaker, John F., '44 A/S. U.S. Army 78th Col­lege Tmg. Det James Milliken University, De­catur, III. 
Coleman, Jerome A., '44, 2nd Lt, USMCR. Quan­tico, Va. Collins, William N., ex. '33, Ensign. Washington, 
D. C. 
Cnnningham, Edward F., '39, LSM 309, Amphib­ious Tmg. Base, Little Creek, Va. 
Dick, Robert A., '29, A/S, Co. 733, USNTS, Great Lakes, 111. Doyle, James P., '42, Ensign, USNR, c/o Fleet P.O., San Francisco. Duncan, Vincent J., '44, Ensign, USNR, Commis­sioned at Columbia U. Dnnican, Edward B., '44, U.S. Naval Hospital, Mare Island, Calif. 
Omieavy, John J., ex. '45, Pvt, APO New York City 
EphcmTC. Charles W., '40, Pfc 
FitxcetaU. Joseph A., '29, Was in service. Fitipatridc, Joseph W., '43, Ensign, USNR 
(South Pacific). Flanacan, John H., '30. Hjfce, IDlton J., '44, Ensign. USNR, USNTS. 
Colombia, New York City 
Geapd, Kenneth E., '43. Ginci, Loais J., '38, Ensign, USNR. Glaser. Edward J., '42, ASTP, Loyola Med. 
School, Chicago. Gaodman, Morton R., '30, Pfc, 7th Detachment Spec Troops, XIU Corps, Camp Butner, N. C. 
Gondl. James S., '40, A/C, U.S. Army Air Forces Bombardier School, Carlsbad Army Air Field, Carlsbad. N. M. 
Griesedieck, Edward J., '42. Gwinn. William R., '44. Pvt, APO N.Y.O. 
Hasaer, Norman B., '44, AyC Pre-Tech School, Seymour Johnson Field, N. C. Haccar, Edmond R., '38, 2nd Lt. Wendover 
Field, Utah. Hamel, P. Joidan, '41. U.S. Army. Hannan, William F., '44. Pvt, Co. A, 2312 Serv., 
UASTU, Johns Hopkins Univ., Baltimore 18, Hd. Hansbeny. William J., '44. Pvt, U.S. Army Co. 
A. 606 T.D. Bn., Unit 2, Camp Cooke, Calif. Hartman, WiUiam W., '42, Lt (jg) USNR. 208 
Flamingo Hotel. Miami Beach, Fla. Hayes, Warren G., '44, USNR (V-7). Hays, George O., '43, Ensign. Heara, William G.. '27. Hednuw. Ridiard G., '42, Lt Bicker, John P., '44. Haiskinc, Edward P., '37, Lt.. USMC. Haiskins, Ridurd V., ex. '39, Lt. USNR-HasildBC. William W., '34. Sgt. U.S. Army. Hant. Eacene F., '42. 
JandoU, Rassell J., '40. 
KelMwr, WUliara L., '42. Lt, USMC. KeDeher, Stephen L., ex. '45, Pfc Kenrer. John K., ex. '45, A/C 35th TEFTG, Free­
man Field, Ind. 
Kerwin. William F., Jr., '40, 1st Lt. Oklahoma City Air Service Command, Tinker Army Air Field. Oklahoma City, Okla. 
Kilbane. John H., '42. A/S, Sqdn. 114, Flight D 
AAFCC, SAACC, San Antonio. Texas. Kirley. Philip H., '35. Klack, Prosper F., ex. '46, A/C Gp. 44-2, Sqdn. E. 
Fit, Ellington Field, Texas. Kmet. Loais L., ex. '44, Pvt, U.S. Army. Killed in service, per "Life" magazine, July 5, 1943, issue. Kahn, Bohert J., '41. Discharged. September, '43. 
Lamb, Robert R., e-x. '39, A/C AAFTX?. Pre-Flight School. Maxwell Field, Ala. Landmesscr, Charies A., '35, Lt, USMCR, c/o 
F.P.O. San Francisco. Lankenaa. Robert G., Jr., ex. '46. A/S, Sqdn. E­65th CID (AC). Syracuse, N. Y. Lecwir. Paa] L., ex. '47, Sl/c, Armed Guard 
Center, 52nd First Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. ^"^tni, Joseph P., ex. '45, Pfc. APO. N.Y.C. Lasibardo, Francis R., e-x. '45, 45th Air Base & 
Hq. Sq. Baer Field. Fort Wayne. Ind. Lswnik, FleU J .,'42. ASTP. Loyola Med. School, 
Chicago. I*y*. Cari E., ex. '47, U.a Navy. Laaaeea, nanu s E., ex. '45, FVt, Sqdn. 767. 
Bks. 330, Buckley Held. Denver. Maaa. Jaha B., Jr., '42, U.& Marine Air Corps. 
!?*?'?!"'*' '**" ^-'*^- Ensien, USNR. " ' ~ Daaald J., ex. '46, A/C USN, 21720 
Masonic Blvd., CAAWTC, St. Claire Shores, Mich. Macfariane, Charles R., ex. '42. Pfc, 1J.S. Army, 193rd Sig. Rep. Co., Camp Forrest, Tenn. 
Hahoney. Joseph W., ex. '46, Lt, U.S. Army Air Force, 84th Fighter Gp.,' 491st Fighter Sqdn., Harding Field, Baton Rouge. La. 
Makielski, Louis J., ex. '43, Pfc, 1551st S.U., Co. 
G. Medic, Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind. 

Manclesdorf. John F.. e.x. '46, A/C. Air Corps, Sqdn. 112, Flight B. AAFCC, SAACC, San Antonio, Texas. 
Mannix, Robert D., ex. '46, U.S. Army Air Corps, Lowry Field, Colo. MarKcr. Loais J., ex. '30, U.S. Navy, Co. 43-325. USNTS. San Diego. Calif. Marietta. Paul A., e-x. '44, A/C 12th AAFFTD. Box 901, Fl. 8, Phoenix, Ariz. Marshall, WiUonghby M., e-x. '45, Fvt., Co. D, 17th Bn., Fort McCTellan, Ala. Mariersteck. WiUiam J.. '33. Lt, USNR, c/o F.P.O., San Francisco. Mamt. Walter M., '46. A/C. Class 44-E, Flight B, GAAF, Greenville. Miss. 
Masdike. Patrick R.. '44, A/G. 81st College T.D., 3312 Vine Army Bks., Class 44-&5, Group 2, Sioux City, la. 
Maarer, Frederick G.. '44. Pf c Marquette Medi­
cal School. 3109 W. Highland Ave., Milwaukee. McCabe. Emmett A.. '29. U.S. Army. McCabe, John H., '44. A/C, Sqdn. B-1. Class 44F, 
Helena Aero Tech., Helena, Ark. 

McCalley, Richard E.. ex. '45, A/C, 824th AAF­BFS, Flight H, Bks. 13, Class 44E, GAAF, Coffeyville. Kans. 
McCarthy. Charles M., '40. McClnre, John C, '43. McDermott, Clare B.. ex. '46. Mdtermott, Joseph E.. '39, Lt. McDonald, Joseph L., Jr., '39. Pharmacist Mate. 
2/C ,USNR. McDermott. Shann A., ex. '46, Pvt, ASTU 3920. Co. A. University of Oregon, Eugene, Ore. McDonald, Richard L.. ex. '46. Cpl.. 28th Tmg. Gp.. Jefferson Bks.. Mo. 
HcEllisott. Robert J., Jr.. ex. '46. S2/C, Quarter­master, USNR, Box 7. Submarine Base. New London, Conn. 
McEneaney, Edward G.. ex. '46, Fvt. McGee, Patrick D'Arcy. '39, Lt. (ig) USNR. (formerly with RCAF). McGurty, John R.. e-x. '46. Pvt., U.S. Army. 34th 
TSS. Bks. 721, Scott Field. III. Mclnemey. John T., ex. '46. McKenna, James A., ex. '38, U.S. Army Air 
Corps, AAFBS, CAAF, Childress. Tex. 

HcKcon, James D., ex. '46. Aviation Cadet. AAF Pilot School. (Basic) Garden City Army Air Field. Garden City, Kans. 
McLanshlin, James J., ex. '46. P\-t. U.S. Army Air Corps, 16th TSS, Box 794, Chanute Field, III. 
McLauchlin, John W., '39, Lt. Missing in action over Holland on March 16, 1944. McLanghlln. Thomas J., e-x. '46, A/C 44th CTTD, Jackson, Tenn. McHidiacl. Guy H.. '37. Lt (jg). .McNally, Edward T., '36, Ensign. USNR. Wel­lesley College, Wellesley. Mass. McNamara, Edcar C , '44, 2nd Lt., U.S. Marines 
Co. D. Quantico. Va. McNeill, John J., '33, U.S. Navy. Menard, Everett W., '43. Cpl.. APO, N.Y.C. Hiley. Francis D., e.x. '46. A/C, Sq. B, Sec. 29, 
TSAAAF. TTE, Yale Univ., New Haven, Conn. Minczewski, Ridiard C . ex. '41. U.S. Army Med. Student Co. C, 1551st SUASTU, Indiana Uni­
versity Medical Center, Indianapolis, Ind. Mitchell, Paul M.. ex. '46. A/C Det. Strother Held, Winfield, Kans. 
Moore, Daniel E., ex. '34, 2nd Lt, Engineer Section, Columbus, ASF Depot Columbus, O. Morley. Harry J., ex. '39, U.S. Army Quarter­
master Cbrps Inspection, 1819 W. P^ahinff Road, Chicago, 111. Morrison, Arnold B., '35, L t (ig) USNR. Fort Schuyler, N. Y. Hulholland, John V.. ex. '46, A/C, 315th AAFFT, Hatbox Field, Muskogee. Okla. 
Munroe, Joseph R.. ex. '46, A/C. Army Air Corps Advanced Tmg. 4406, CAAF, Cbliunbia. Miss. Murphy. Stewart F. P., ex. '45. A/C. Carlstrom 
Field. Arcadia. Fla. Murray. Calvin J., e-x. '47. AMM 3/C. USNR. Aviation Machinist Mate. 
Nelson. George J., ex. '45, U.S. Army Air Corps, 44-B. Sqdn. CBAAF, BIytheville, Ark. 
Nicol, Thomas M., ex. '46, Pfc, U.S. Army Air Force, 619 TSS, Bks. 1428, Truax Field, Madi­son 7, Wis. 
Nolan, James J., '37, Ensign, USNR, cyo F.P.O., San Francisco. Nook. Lawrence J., e-x. '45, PVt, Co. B, ASTC 
• 3875, Arkansas Univ.. Fayetteville. Ark. Noonan. John W., e-x. '45. Sgt, U.S. Army. Noona, Michael P., ex. '46, Pvt, Co. A, Sec G, 
3229 SCSU, Brooklyn College, Bedford ft H Ave., Brooklyn 10, N. Y. Nunnemman, Charles, ex. '33. U.S. Navy. 
O'Brien, Thomas J.; ex. '45, Pfc, 5th Tmg. Rim Preparatory Unit, BIdg. 946, Sheppard Field, Texas. 
Ochocki, Howard G., ex. '46, CI>1., V.S. Army Air Cbrps, 637 TSS, Boca Raton Field, Fla. 
O'ConneU, Daniel M., e-x. '46, Flight OiBcer, Sec I, Sqdn. 60, Davis Monthon Field, Tucson. Ariz. O'Connor, Lawrence J., "38, Cpl., Air Force Serv­
ice Command in England. O'Connor, Philip F.. ex. '46, CpL, APO. N.Y.C O'Donoshue, John B., ex. '45, A/C, Bks. 146, 
Majors Field. Greenville. Texas. O'aUlley, John B.. e-x. '45. A/C. Class 44-6-9. 839th Gp., Hondo, Texas. O'Neil, Edward T., e-x. '33. A/S, U.S. Navy, Ca 
678. USNTS., Great Lakes. III. 

O'Neil, Thomas F., Jr., ex. '47, Pvt, U.S. Army, 4th Platoon, Btry. B. 4th AART Bn., Fort Eustis, Va. 
Padesky, James E., ex. '44. A/C, USAAC, Sqdn. 1, Section 4, Class 44E. Maiden Army Air Field, Maiden, Mo. 
Paflas, LaMar C, ex. '45, Pfc, 382nd Base Hq. 
A.B. Sqdn., Army Air Base, Pocatello, Idaha Palmisani, Frank M., ex. '34, Lt , Camp Ed­
wards, Mass. Pearsall, James D., ex. '44, A/S, U.S. Navy Co. 
705. USNTS. Great Lakes, II!. Peasenelli, John J., '43. Fesut, Nicholas C, '40, T/5, c/o Postmaster New 
York City. Petrillo, John A., '35, Pvt, U.S. Army. Pfci'Ier, Paul E., ex. '43, A/C, Sqdn. E-2, AAF­
PFS (B-N), Selman Field, Monroe. La. Fickhardt, Charles L.. '44, Pvt, 8262 Flight 22. Sq. 2. Trng. ETC. Gulfport Field. Miss. Porter. John J., ex. '45, A/C. 52nd AAFFTD. Class *44E, Darr Aero Tech.. Albany, Ga. Powers, Michael K., ex. '32. 594th Joint Assault Signal Co., Fort Ord. Calif. Prats, Raymond S., ex. '47, c/o F.P.O., San Fran­cisco. Prendergast, Henry J., '33, Pvt.. Co. C, 55th Med.. Trng. Bn.. Camp Barkeley, Texas. Price, James M., ex. "43, Pfc. APO cyo Postmas­ter N.Y.C. 
Qninlan, Harold F., '35, Lt, Btry. A. 782nd AAA (AW) Bn., Camp Haan. Calif. Quinn, Christopher J., '40. 
Redd, Patrick M., '41. Reilly. Henry E.. '43, Ensign. Reynolds, Joseph H., '39. APO. N.Y.C. Rhodes, Arthur D., '41, 1st Lt , Fort Meade Md. 
JUBKBI*. lUuic c J.. '34, Lt , AFO e/o Poctmas­ter. San FVangisea 
tOgtmr. Jaae>k A., ex. '44, A/C. U.S. Anay 54^1 FTD. CUss 44-F, Sqdn. 3, Dorr FM 4 Aicaffia. Fla. 
KiMlbi. Aathny A.. '42. Ensign. USNTS, Tat­saeola. Fla. Kadccn. JaaMS F.. ex. '46. A/C NAAC. Sqdn. A-3. Nashville, Tenn. Bnaa, Jaka P„ ex. '44. Pvt. H6q>ital Branch. ' Poet Medical Div., Camp XeCay, yfia. ••aey. David T.. '44, Midshipman, Abbott Ball. Chicago. Kaaey, WiDaam C , ex. '46. Pvt. Co. B, Flatoim 
7. 3318 ASTU. Drexel Institute of Tech.. Phila­delphia. Pa. Ummir. Williaa P.. ex. '46. Pfc. Hqs. * Hq*., LAAF. Laredo. Texas.. BalUas, Fnacis J., ex. '46, A/C Detaehaoifc Class UEJG. AAF. Greenwood. Miss. 
Byao, Lawnnce P., '41. A/Si USNR, Cd 713, USNTS. Great Lakes. HI. 
Salke. WilBaa T,, ex. '46, Pvt; U.S. Army 3655th S.U., Mich State College. East Lan­sing, Mich. 
Sairi, Altert S., ex. '46, Pfc, Co. F, ASIP, Campbell Hall, Princeton, N. J. Scaalan. Michael T., ex. '43, Pvt, Air Force Serviee Command in England. Schatdeia, Lawreace J., '44, USNR. Harvard Univ., Cambridge, Mass. Schreyer. Jaha J., ex. '35, T/Sgt. APO e/o Foat­raaster, N.Y.C. Schattea, WilliaBi A., ex. '44. A/C, Clasa 44-«, Sqdn. 80, Flight C, Childres. Texas. Seward. Fraacis E., '31, Sgt. Weather Sqdn. in England. Sharp.'Aastin K., '44. AjS, Co. 4204. Bks. 4181T. USNTS. Bainbridge. Md. Shay. Francis J.. '35, T/Sgt. e/o Postmaster. N.Y.C Shea. Jascph T., ex. '45. H.A. 2/C, USNR, e/o FPO. San Francisco. Shiawr, Ralph W., ex, '46, 2nd Lt, Co. B, 139 TSTB, North Camp Hood. Texas. Slater, Jaha F., ex. '44. A/C. 305th AAFGPS(F). Gamer Field, Uvalde. Texa& Skwey, William E., ex. '44, A;C. Class 44-47. SMAAF. San Marcos. Texas. Small. WOBaai A., ex. '46, RDM-2C, e/o FPO. San Francisco. 
Smith, Eaceae J.. '38, L t (jg). MC USHR. e/o FPO. N.Y.C ' SaUth. Maaricc O.. ex. "44. A/C 44-b. WRAAF. 
Walnut Ridge, Ark. Sadtfc. Thcadarc F„ ex. "44. A/C. U.& Air Ctarp*. CAAFS. Class 44-C. Sqdn. 2, Onrtland, Ala. 
Smllh. WUBaa L.. ex. '46. Pvt. Dispensary 3id Air Force RepL Depot. Plant Farlc, l^unpa f. Fla. 
Speaccr. Thaatas IC, ex. '4X Staacaii. Arthar F., ex. '46. CpL. 34th Bomb Gp. 7th Sqdn.. BIythe CUif. 
Stead. Vaaeeat J., ex. '44. Aviation Cidet Chdet Detachment. Sqdn. 33. GCAAF. Garden City. Kans. 
Stechschahe, Russell F.. ex. '47. A/C. CIsss 44Z, FUidit L. CAAF. Cbffeyville. Kans. SteKe. mOiUB H., ex. '45, A/C BAAF, AFTS, 44D, BIytheville. Ark. Stepavidi, Michael A., '44. A/S. BIdz. 95. Great Lakes. IIL Saarez. FeUx R., ex. '46, A/C, 3rd yiuis Sqdn. 66, SAAAB. Santa Ana. Calif. Samvaa, David B.. ex. '4S, 395th Signal Aviation Co., Camp FSnedale, Fresno. CUif. SalUvaa. Jaha J., ex. '44, A/C, FUgfat E. West Cimarron Field, Oklahoma C!^, Okla. 
TescheauulMr, Fredeiicfc W , ex. '46, A/C. Cbss 44F. Fli^t D. Sqdn. H. Fletdier Field, Cladca­dale. Mass. 
Iheis. Paal A., ex. '44. 72nd AAFFTD, Class 44^ 
D. Bosh Field, Augusta. Ga. 

TkaaiBl, Jakn B., '44, Ensign, USNR. Columbia Univ.. USNTS, New York City. Tahin, Gcoise E., ex. '45, A/C, Navy Air Corps, Dallas, Texas. Traceaer, Winimm J., ex. '46, AyC-Army Air Force, Prov. Sqdn. B. Flight S8A, C!ass 44-5, AAFNS. Selman Field, Monroe. La. Trattier. DMU U J., ex. '44, AyC, U.S. Army-Pilot Tmg, Class 44F, Sqdn. 2-B. CAAF, Courtland. Ala. Two«ey, James F., ex. '46, Pi-t, 305th Trng. Gp. Bks. 210, Sheppard Held, Texas. 
Vanderwyit, Harry J., ex. '39. A/S, U.S. Navy. Co. 538, USNTS, Great Lakes, 111. Van Dyke. Joseph M., ex. '44, A/C, Bks. 97, Class 44D, Shaw Field, Sumter, S. C. Vcnneman, Jaeqves M., ex. '44, A/C. Army Air Corps, 44E, BAAF, Bainbridge, Ga. 
Wakl, Sohert L., ex. '46, Army Air Corps. Air Corps Station, 616 Trng. Group, Flight 135, Lincoln, Nebr. Wallace, AUert A^ '32. Died on furlough while at home in Davenport, la. 
Walsh, James J., ex. '43, A/C, Army Air Enlisted Reserve. Class 44E, Cadet Det, 'WTIAAF, Wal­nut Ridge, Ark. 
Walsh. John E., ex. '45, A/C Sqdn. H, Class 44, Souther Held. Americus, Ga. Walsh. WilUam R., e-x. '46, Pvt. U.S. Army, 370 TSS. Bks. 106, Scott Held. 111. Walter. Charles F., e-x. '33, Pvt, U.S. Army. Co. D, Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. Waid. John J., Jr., ex. '45, A/C, Army Air Force. Waco Field. Texas. Watson. EoKene C, 11, ex. '46, A\-iation Cadet. 
U.S. Army, Class 44E. Sqdn. 4D, AAFPS. CAAF, Courtland. Ala. Wcditer. Franklin J., ex. '47, Pvt, APO c/o 
Postmaster, N.Y.C Weihler. John O., '31, Lt (jg), USNR. Whitaker, Charles C, ex. '46, A/C, U.S. Army 
Air Corps, 44E, Bar 213. Shaw Field, Sumpter, 
S. C. 
White. John Bracken, Jr., ex. '45, A/C, Gp. B. Sq. 19, Class 44H, AAFPS, SAACC, San An­tonio, Texas. 
Whitelr. John T., ex. '44, USNR Midshipmen School, Columbia Univ., New York City. Whitini, Richard L., ex. '45, 2nd Lt , AAF, AAF 
Gunnery School, Laredo, Texas. Wiley. Martin B., ex. '46, Pvt. AFO. N.Y.C. WiUdns, Clint K., ex. '45, A;C. Sqdn. M6, Flight 
1, Maxwell Held. Ala. 
WiDett. Francis M., ex. '46, A/C. Class 11-D, Cadet Regt, U.S. Naval Air Training Center, carpus Christ!, Texas. 
Wibon, James D., '44, A/S, USNR, Co. 682, USNTS. Great Lakes, 111. 
Wilson. Richard J., ex. '44. Pfc, U.S. Army Air Corps, 500 Hghter Bomber Sqdn., 85th Hghter Bomber Group, Harris Neck, Army Air Base, RFD, Townsend. Ga. 
Winberry, John J., '28, Capt, USMC, Camp Le­jeune. New River, N. C. 
Wolir, John K.. ex. '44, Moody Held Advanced Trng., CTass 44C. Bks. 128, Moody Held, Val­dosta, Ga. 
Wood. James J., ex. '30, A/S, USNR, Co. 127, USNTS, Great Lakes. 111. Worth, Bofcert C, ex. '46, Pfc, 807 TSS, Bks. 837, Army Air Base, Sioux Falls. S. D. 
Wrisht, William B., ex. '42, 2nd L t Co-pilot of a Liberator bomber, U.S. Army Air Force. Miss­ing in action over France since Mar. 11, 1944. 
TMUIS. John P., ex. '45, 2nd Lt, Casual Officers Pool, Camp Haan, Calif. Yaanduu, Albert Edward, ex. '44, A/C, Group 2, Cadet Det, Strother Held, Winfield. Kans. 
Zimmerman, Geaise W.. '32, U.S. Navy. 
Zimmerman, Harold J., ex. '46. Pfc, USHC; e/o 
FPO, San Francisco. 
Zimmerman. Victor L., Jr.. '28, L t (sg) USNB. 
Znelke. GasUve A., '44, Ensign, USS LCT(5), 
348 Ho t 13, Group 37, c/o FPO, San Frandsco. 
Znpko, Eagene M., ex. '44, CpU U.S. Army, Cen­
ter Hdqs. Co., IBTC, Camp Blanding, Ha. 
LONDON PARTY 

Headquarters, European Theater of Operations.—^Traditional- gridiron rival­ries between the Universities of Notre Dame and Minnesota were forgotten (well, almost forgotten), and brass-hats and G. I. Joes were "rankless" whai alumni of the two universities had a re­union dinner recently in London. 
News was exchanged about classmates, and former professors, college songs were sung, and tentative plans were made for a second Minnesota-Notre Dame reunion to be held in Berlin. 
Brief talks were given by Gerald Fitz­gerald, athletic director for the Ameri­can Red Cross in the European Theater of operations, who holds degrees from both universities, and by Lt. Col. Frank McCormick, who is on leave from his position as athletic director at the Uni­versity of Minnesota. 
They were introduced by Capt. Harri­son D. Kohl of the staff of The Stars and Stripes, Army daily, which sponsors the alumni dinners in London. 
Attending were the following from Notre Dame: 
C/M Winfield D. Khine, USNR, Sgt Paul T. Leonard, L t Thomas E. Cassidy, 1st L t Clyde 
A. Lewis. 1st L t Harold J. Barres, Capt. H. E. Langlois, Sgt Andrew J. McMahon, Pvt John G. Malloy, S/Sgt Donald F. McGinley, Capt M. B. Williams. Pfc Elwood J. Lavery, Ens. J. W. Gilbert 2nd Lt. John E. Busse, 1st L t J. Tbos. Traughber. 
1st L t Robert W. Boyle. 2nd L t Robert V. Rademacher, Cbpt Neil Farrell, Maj. (now L t Col.) Donald J. Wilkins, AC, Sgt W. J. Bean­pre, 1st L t John O'Brien, Lt. Daniel F. Curley, Cpl. W. H. O'Brien, T/3 Thomas J. Sullivan, 1st L t Maurice F. Quinn, T/Sgt James J. Brngger. T/Sgt Robert W. Hughes. 
Capt J. F. O'Marab, AC, S/Sgt. Faxil E. Neville, Capt "Hiomas P. Liston, AC, Cpl- Lawrence J. O'Connor, Ens. Joseph M. Lane, USNR, 1st L t Gus Ryan, Pvt John E. Ryan, Sgt Carroll P. Pitkin, T/5 William J. Matson, 1st Lt. Donald G. Smarinsky, Edward J. Kelly, Joseph S. Moon, £• 
F. Vaslett James E. Boyle, Pvt Michael T. Sean-Ion, Gerald Htzgerald. 
FATHER STAUNTON DIES 

Rev. John Staunton, who was or­dained late in life after his conversion from the Anglican Church, died in Hammond, Ind., May 17. Father Staun­ton, a brother of Prof. Henry Staunton,' was ordained at Notre Dame by Bishop John F. Noll, D.D. He made his resi­dence with the Franciscans at Gray-moor, until a year and a half ago. He was buried in Brooklyn, N. Y. 
RELIGIOUS BULLETIN 

(Continued from Page 2) sin and divine revelations as supersti­tions. He calls than man-made concepts, ag^ain showing lack of intelligence. These concepts came from Christ and Christ is God and God created intel­ligence. We probably shouldn't correct the august Commissioner of Education but well take any tips regarding intel­ligence from God, Who created intelli­gence. As its Creator, He is the expert on intelligence. Compared to Him, even the august Commissioner of Education is comparable to the village blacksmith tinkering with a Flying Fortress. He doesn't even know the purpose of intelligence—^to aid us to get to Heaven. He limits its use merely to get pleasure and fun out of life, to stay right on this earth and to make this earth a heaven. The village blacksmith at least knows the Fortress' purpose is to fly. 
• 

PENTECOST We might yawn at such disclosure of ignorance except that the foundations of our liberty and of our civilization can well be at stake. Such commissioners of mis-education are the ones who are and have been ed­ucating the youth of our country. It is they who are trying to set the pattern for the post-war world. Atheistic education, denying or ignor­ing God and the soul, wipes out the foundation of our American democracy. Our natural rights, including liberty, rest on the existence of God, as our Creator, Who endowed us with these natural rights. The founders of our country recognized and afiirmed this. Our pseudo-scientific educators and philosophers are fast and surely under­mining the basis of our liberties. With God and our natural rights gone or ig­nored, we become mere creatures of the state. Thus despite victory on the battle­field, well have lost the fight against tyranny. We're, soldiers of Christ by virtue of" Confirmation and there's a battle for every one of us not only to defend but to profess and promote the Faith; to profess and promote Christ and Chris­tian principles in government, educa­tion, family life, every phase of society. Defense never won any battle and unless we start on the offensive now, we'll wake up to find the game—and our liberties—lost. Our Church and our Alma Mater give us a program. The Holy Ghost will give us strength. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Hiss Betty Louise Boot and Lt. Thomas G. Banr. Jr., '39. 
Hiss Edna Sterk and Lt. (jg) Albert G. Denten, '39. 
Hiss Loretta H. Gorka and Edward J. Tomdk, '41. 
Hiss Flavia Trucco and Pvt. GeorKe Harcncci, '41. 
Hiss Georgia Kelly and Lt. John F. O'Dea, '41. 

Hiss Helen Weinkauf and Gilbert A. Zimmer­man, '42. 
Hiss Hary Lou Dahm and Lt. Joseph J. Barr, •42. 
Miss Frances Ann Gilray and Faal CoUanni, Jr., '44. 
Miss Doris Anne Gilman and Pfc. John C. Banm, '44. 
Miss Virginia Dreibelbis and William J. Eaton, •44. 
Hiss Evelyn Marie Cressy and CpL' Robert J. Firth, '44. 
Marriages 
Hiss Ameline Darcy and James J. Clark, '23, in the Log Chapel. June 17. 
Miss Jeanne Currie and Lt. Robert Rohrfaadi, USNR, '32, in Oxnard. Calif.. April 28. 
Hiss Elizabeth Jane Newcomer and John Thomas Campbell, '35, in Detroit, April 22. 
Miss Gwen Healy and Lt. Harry A. Baldwin, 

•37, in Oak Park. III., Hay 6. 
Miss Judith Holden and Lt. Martin T. Bams, USNR. •37, in "Washington. D. C , May 27. 
Miss Carol Keating and Lt. (jc) Frank R. Witte, USCG, ^40, in Chicago, April 8. 
Hiss Elizabeth Cagney and Lt. George J. Mc-Horrow, •40, in Kalamazoo, Mich.. April 15. 
Hiss Bette Jane Claeys and Lt. Robert J. Scfanltz, USNR. '40, in Sacred Heart Church, June 10. 
Hiss Frances A. Trippel and Ernest J. Wil­liams, '40, in South Bend. Hay 27. 
Miss Geraldine Irene Hayes and Lt. Francis 

D. MCKCITT, '41, in Atchison, Kans., March 10. 
Miss Frances Boltz and Edward L. Holtgren, '41, in Fort Wayne. Ind., April 22. 
Miss Ruth Schindler and Lt. Charles Gerard, USHCB. '41, at San Luis Key Mission, Calif., May 20. 
Miss Frances Bolte and Edward L. Holtgren, '41, in Fort Wayne, Ind., April 22. 
Lt. Martha L. Mitten and Lt. William A. Hosinski, '42, in Boston, April II. 
Hiss Bemice Charlotte Gutman and Edwmrd 

F. O'Kane, '42. in Glenview, HI. 
Miss Molly Frances Gayle and Lt. DMU H F . Connors, '42, in Shreveport, La., April 16. 
Hiss Jean A. Nimtz and Lt. Sakrt O. Kachl. ex. '44, in Marianna, Fla., May 27. 
Miss Jane Ditsch and Ensign RaysMad J. Raetz. '44, in Boston, April 26. 
Miss Eleanore Hoyle and CpL DMU M M. Hoover, ex. '44, in South Bend. June 10. 
Miss Elaine A. Horan and Lt. Williaii E. Hills, ex. '46, in Tallahassee, Fla., June 17. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. Hark Nolan, '24, announce the birth of their fourth child, a son, on Jan. 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. Floyd Searer, '28. announce the birth of a daughter, June 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. Joseph Lanfton, '28, annoonoe the birth of William Michael, in Sept. '43. 
Capt. and Mrs. J. F. Ihinne, '28. announce the birth of a .daughter, Kathleen Ann, on May 15. 
Capt and Mrs. Charles F. Coltan, '29. an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Charlotte Ann, on April 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick HcCoaker, *30. announce the birth of a son. May 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. Sara E. Richard, ex. *30, an­nounce the birth of their third child. Kathleen Diane, on May 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. Ear] W. Briefer, '31. announce the birth of a daughter, Susan, on Feb. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. hen Raddatx, *33, announce the birth of a daughter, Irene Leslie. 
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Else, '34, announce the birth of a daughter, Leslie Anne, on Hay 28. 
Lt. and Mrs. John J. Haher, Jr., *34, announce the birth of a son, John Joseph, m . on Blardi 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Otte, '35, announce. the birth of a son, William Henry, on May 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward F. HcNally, '36, an­nounce the birth of their second daughter. Pesgy, on Nov. 14, 1943. 
Dr. and Mrs. Daniel L. Sexton, ex. *36, an­nounce the birth of a daughter. Joanne, on Feb. 14. 
Hr. and Mrs. Charies W. Doknalck, *37. an­nounce the birth of a son, June 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. Paul Shcedy, '37. announce the birth of a daughter. Barbara Scott, on March 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Hardodc. '37, announce the birth of a daughter on May 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. Burnett C. Baser, '38, announce the birth of a son, Burnett Patrick. Hay 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jeremiah Shin^ '38, announce the birth of a son,' Michael John, on April 19. 
Ens. and Mrs. Mkm WUmM^ 'SflL •••iiiw the birth of a dan^ter. Fntricia Xariiu ca Ibv 22. 
Haior and Mrs. Jaats H. Li*v. '»• as­nounee the Inrth of a dan^bta; Kay Zl. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jsfai L. TtiVitmm, *», a^ noance the birth of a aon. John Lokc, on Kay IT. 
Mr. and Mrs. Kkhard BaihhsMii, 'S». a»­noonee the l»rth of a daughteit Ifelly IH1wa_ <m March 20. 
Capt and Mrs. Philip J. KalsMy. '3», as­noonee the. Iwrtili of a daoglita*, ManA 10. 
Lt (ig) and Mrs. WiHaa Kahar, '40, aa­noonee the birth of a son, Janes WlIHaM* on June 1. 
L t and Krs. B. J. Hart*.'40. annooBea tta hirth of a son, Gorey William, <m A^iU C^ 
A/S and Mrs. Laaia Ryakaiw '43,' anmanwW flw birth of twin sons, on April 14. 
Deaths 
Oscar F. Satflk (formerly Sdunidt). LI. R '9S. Rock Island. IlL. died in Rock Island on Mar IC after a Umg illness. He was picndent at tha. Notre Dame Chib of the Tri-CSties. Kr. Sntth was third baseman on the Notre Daae h«wli»n teams of the early nineties and was proud of s rich collection of Notre Dame photosrapha of tiiat: 
James Olhrer n, distinsoished dtiien of Sooth Bend, a former student in the Pniversiti's pre­paratory department. 190<M)1. £ed ia TniBtmap­olis, on Hay 20 from a heart attack. Mr. OBf^. who eontribtited generously to the CntcBair Ftand thronsfa the Notre Dame Chd> of tha St. Joseph Valley, had been a member of the A|D » ni Association sinee 1923. He is SBrviTed by his widow, a brother, and two sisters. He was * ^ rector of the Oliver Equipment Co. and actha in civic and political affairs of Sooth Bend n d Indiana. 
Jaacph L. Teahcy, A.B. '02. Chicago attonHT. died on April 12 after a long illness, aeeocdns to recent advice from fVank MAeever.. 'OS. 
Aftert B. Obeist, LL.a '0«. died soiddenlr on last Jan. S in the Greoit Court Boom ia.Owaa­boro. Ky„ where 6e had been an attamey tor many yean. Ibis word was received br Janma 
A. Dubbs. Cleveland, a classmate, Mr. Oherst had sent in his subscription to tiia ''Notza '. Lawyer" inst a short time befne Us death. 
I D. Qaiiley. IX.B. '12. died April 12 in Chicago, where he had been an adjtntcr. for an Knglish insnrance company. He ia sarvivad tor his widow, Mae, and two sisters. Ibea was. a mnm ogram baseball player at Notre Dame ia UM and 1911, and went on to play with Pittdbar^ and other major leagoe teams. Awmrmtg ahnaal at the funeral was Joaeph B. McGlynn. East SL Louis, a classmate. 
Wnaaaa Habkan. '32. La Salle, HL. b according to a late "Beligioas Banctin." wUhuat farther detail. 
Thomas W. Green* Jr., '34. died May 20 in St Paul, Minn., -where he had been representing the Perth Axnboy Shiphuilding Corp. of N. J. He -was bom in Sionx City, la., and came from there to Notre Dame in 1930, bein^ graduated from the Department of Economics in 1934. He went to Hinneaiwlis vrith the International Har\'ester Co. after graduation and has lived in the Twin Cities for 10 years. He is survived by his wife, Cath­erine, five children. Catherine, Mary Teresa, Tom 
W. IH, and twin girls, Julia and Jane; his par­ents, and his brothers, 'William, '34, Frank, A^C Jerry, *39. and his sisters, Catherine and Isabel. 
Hie Notre Dame "Alumnus" joins the whole world of Catholic education in mourning the death of one of its great leaders. Following ts the dramatic story, in part, of the death of Mgr. George Johnson^ as it appeared in the New York "Times" of June fe. 

The Right Rev. George Johnson, associate pro­fessor of Education at Catholic University, died yesterday while delivering the commencement ad­dress in Notre Dame Auditorium at Trinity Col­lege. He "Was 55 years old. 
His last words were: "We must do more work in educating youth for Christ." Mgr- Johnson, who had devoted his life to edu­cation, was midway in his address when he col-laps^ at the microphone. He fell from the speakers' stand and died at the feet of the Most Rev. Michael J. Curley. archbishop of Baltimore and Washington, presiding officer at the cere­mony. Mgr. Johnson was one of the country's lea^ng Catholic educators. A strong supporter of our 
•war against the Axis, he declared in 1942 that "the forces which are arrayed against our coun­try are the same forces which in other lands are arrayed against the church." Disruption of school programs, from "the kindergarten to the university." he said on another occasion that year, should prove beneficial in bringing about future reforms in educational values. 
Opposed to Government interference in educa­tion, Mgr. Johnson also spoke against mass meth­ods in education. Unlike some Catholic educators, he 'Was not opposed to some forms of progressive education, and in 1935 he started a model elemen­tary school attached to Sisters College of Catholic University. He built around traditional Catholic doctrine a structure of activities which included erection of an altar with breakfast-food boxes the fashioning of miniatures of Bethlehem and Naza­reth with water and sewage systems, and visits to farms, stores, police stations, postoffices, air­t>orts and radio stations. He was the school's di­rector. 
He was careful to separate himself from lay progressive educational ^sterns. 
"We Catholics," said Mgr. Johnson, "believe in original sin and so we believe in discipline. A good many progressives don't seem to believe in any sin at all." 
In April this year Mgr. Johnson w-as elected to his ^xth three-year term as secretary general of the National Catholic Welfare Conference and editor of the "Catholic Educational Re\-iew." 
ITie "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathies to: the Knate K. Rockne family in the death in Chi­cago on May 18 of Mrs. Martha Rockne, 85, mother of the late Notre Dams immortal; to the Eacene "Scrap" Yoon^ family on the death of his mother, Mrs. Rosa Young, in Dover, O.; to Francis M. Miariey, '32. and Capt Harold Marley, '37, on the death of their father in Fostcria, O.; to Jack UUfluum, '37. on the recent death of his wife and one of his children. Your prayers for these and other deceased relatives and friends of alumni are requested. 
Personals 
 E. Proctor* 'M, HMiftr 
Bnildinff, Elkhart, Ind. 
1900-04 Robert 
Byron V< Kanaley, a member of the advisory council of the Community Chest and War Fund of Chicago, recently was elected president of the Winnetka Community Chest in his home, subur­ban community. He is a member of the executive committee of the Illinois Association for the Crippled and of the board of directors of the Catholic Charities of the archdiocese of Chicago. 
• AAf T A Q B«v- Thomas E. Bnrfce, CJB.C^ I 7UD-l/ # '47, Notre Dame. Iskd. 
Governor E. P. "Ted*' Car^iUe of Nevada is­sued the following proclamation in April: 
"I ask that when word reaches us that the major European invasion has started, and when D-day is officially announced, that all persons in Nevada kneel in prayer in their own homes or assemble in their churches, to jtetition the mera­ful God for the success of this operation and for the safety of the boys taking part. 

"The future of freedom in the United States, and for the Allies, depends largely upon the suc­cess of this gigantic undertaking," the Governor declared. 
 Michael L. Moiiarty, 8215 S t 
Clair Ave., Cleveland, O. 
1910 Rev. 

A clipping, now some months old, has come through to tell us that Major Jesse Roth, James­town, N. D., is (or was) head of the eye, ear* nose and throat clinic of the laboratory services at the station hospital, C^mp Van Dom, Miss. A veteran of World War I, the Major rejoined the Army in 1942 and was assigned to Van Don) last February. 
Major Roth is the father of two sons and two daughters; one of his sons is a Marine para^ trooper and one daughter is married to an Army bomber pilot. Dr. Roth is a dry-fly-fishing en­thusiast, making his own rods, flies and leaders. His proudest fishing possession is a Lancaster rod more than 100 years old. 
 J. Kaiser, 324 Foarth St., PUt»­
bareh« Pa. 

1912 B. 
Alfred R. White, at Notre Dame in 1908-09, enlisted in the U.S. Coast Guard in February, 1943, and was rated as a chief boatswain's mate. He has been serving in the Navy shipyard of the Los Angeles Shipbuilding and Drydock Corp. San Pedro, Calif. 
 H. Hayes, 642 TUtd ATC.* 

1914 
Frank 
Chnla VisU, Calif. 

Maj. Cien. Francis P. Mulcahy has assumed command of the Marine Fleet Air, west coast, it was announced on May 15 in San Diego. Hi s or­ganization, known as Marfair, embraces all avia­tion tactical training activities at the Marine Corps air station at Mojave. Santa Barbara, £1 Toro (at Santa Ana). El Centro and Camps Gil­lespie, Kearny and Ftendleton. 
General Mulcahy won his first Distingmshed Service Medal for heroic work as a marine avi­ator in France in 1918 and was recently awarded the Gold Star in lieu of a second Distinguished Service Medal for his skillful leadership as com­mander of the United Nations air forces on Guadalcanal. During the crucial period of the initial Solomons campaign, his strategy and de­termination against superior enemy forces are credited with contributing immeasurably to the successful occupation of Guadalcanal and de­struction of numerous enemy surface vessels, air­craft and shore installations. 
 F. BlUler, €10 Wisconsin ATCH 
1916 
Gcvnr 
Badiie, Wis. 
From Grove Miller: 
My recent letter to all the members of our 
class, which included about 70 mailings, brought 
me unclaimed letters from: Manuel Gonzalez, 
Havana. Cuba: Thomas Hayes, Detroit; and 
Lake Kelly, Roslindale, Mass. I have since 
learned that Tom Hayes is living at 812 Iro­
quois Drive, S.E., Grand Rapids, Mich., and 
that Luke Kelly's latest address is 886 Cleve­
land St.. Apt. 8. Oakland. Calif. Does any one 
know Manuel's address? 
Frank Swift is working for the Navy. His ad­dress is 2715 First Ave. Hadden Heights. N. J. Bofe Carr is looking for a 1946 reunion. Father Patridc Hanerty, at St Bernard's Church, Watertown. Wis., would like to hear from old friends. Ray KeUy, a lieutenant colonel. C.A.C., is stationed in Washington, but can be reached at his Detroit address. 
Tim Galvin, a supreme director of the K. of 
G. and supreme master of its fourth degree, pre­sided in late April at a particularly successful exemplification of the degree in South Bend. Tlie fourth degree members and the candidates as^sted at Mass on Sunday in St. Patrick's Church. South Bend, of which Father Pat Dolan, C.S'C^ '15, is pastor. Father Dolan gave the 

•fermon at the Mass and the benediction following the evening's banquet. Barney O'Neill, ex. '29, South Bend, was the general chairman of the committee in charge "of the exemplification. 
 J. VtO, toe E. Tntt St. Soath 
1917 B. 
Bend, Ind. 

GoTcnior Han r Ktttr of Michisan gave the Commencement address at the University of De­troit on May 31 and received in the same cere­mony an honorary defirree. Rev. CarroD F. Deadr. who was a graduate student at Notre Dame in 1930-31 and is now- superintendent of schools in the Detroit archdiocese, also received an honorary degree. Most Rev. Edward Mooney, 
LL.D. '36, archbishop of Detroit, presided at the University's baccalaureate services a few days before 
Danny and Ruth BUcartner celebrated their 25th wedding anniversary on June 7 at a special Mass of thanlcsgiving in their parish diurch, fol­lowed by a breakfast in the South Shore Country Club, Chicago, for the members of their wedding party and their families. Open House afterwards at the Hilgartner manse, 7300 S. Constance Av e for all Seventeeners in the area. The only blot on an otherwise joyful occasion was the absence of Lt. Dan, III, '42, who is serving in North Africa, 
ms 
John A. Lemaer, SOI lake Shore Dtln, 
Ewinaba, Midi. 

Through a slight . mix-up in addresses. Vic Learner, '26 secretary (and brother of the '18 secretary) had a letter from Hark Cnllen, who is a member of the contracting firm of J. P. Cnllen tc Son, Janesville, Wis. 
Jekn LeaiBisr writes that Dan HcGIynn, cor­poration counsel for East SL Louis, III., will again be a delegate to the national Republican convention in Chicago. 
John, a clipping says, has been appointed by Gmreraar Kelly of Michigan to the 10-man Mich­igan Adult Education Advisory Committee, which will assist in planning a new program of educa­tion for adults, to start on an experimental basis this year. John is superintendent of schools in 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
 Comm. Cbrence W. Baden 
1919 Lt. 
U.S.N.R., N.A.S.. Franklin Field* 
Franktin, Va. 
Father Thomas J. Hanifin, a major-chaplain in the Army, is at present post chaplain at Ft-Meyer. Va., according to Father H. L. Collins, pastor of Sacred Heart Church, Younffstown, O-
1920 
Leo B. Ward» 1012 Black BIdr., L M Anceles, Calif. 
Leo Ward, in Los Angeles, collects nationwide news, as follows: "I received a notice from C. P. 
J. "Jock" Mooney, who announces that he is no longer assistant U.S. attorney at Memphis, and is now engaged in private practice, the firm name being Wilson, Cohn and Mooney. The AP recently carried an account of Slip Madisan de­livering papers. It seeems his son was down with the flu and Slip, being as thrifty and energetic as ever, carried the route during his son's inca­pacity." 
A report is circulating that CoL Sherwood Dixon, after a long period of training infantry­men in Natchez, Miss., is now on General Mar­shall's staff in Washington, D- C. Is there a veri­fication in the house? 
1921 
Dan W. Duffy, 1610 Teminal Tomr, CteTeland, O. 
Ray McGarry has just completed superintend­ing the construction of a very large housing project for the federal government in Wichita. Kans. He expected to leave soon for Washington, 
D. C. for another assignment. 
1922 Gerald Ashe, 19 Dorkinc Road, Bod»­e«ter, N. Y. 
From Kid Ashe Clete Ls^ch, having just completed a fast spring business trip to the West Coast, made a flash visit to St. Louis from his midwest head­quarters in Peoria, HI. St. Louians resent Clete's rationed seven-hour stopover. 
Jim Jones is commander of American Legion's Sergeant Force Post in Rochester, N. Y. Several members of Jim's post are back in service in World War H, and most of them hold high com­missions in the armed forces. 
In St. Louis, Dr. Dan Sexton is holding up well despite long hours of hard work. In addition to his own medical practice, Dan is a member of the faculty of St Louis University's College of Medicine. 
A postal was received from Lt. Arnold Mc­Grath of the Army Service Forces attached to Oakland, Calif., sub port of embarkation. Ar­nold's address is 308 £ddy St, San Francisco. 
Al Carroll and Art Valley are living and working in the Chicago area. 
Earl Walsh is the new football coach at Mt Carmel High School, Chicago, taking the place of Wally Frorohart. '37. who entered the Navy as a lieutenant (jg). Last fall Earl handled the. St. Ambrose Academy team. Davenport, la- He had been at Fordham since 1934, as line coach and chief scout, and succeeded Jim Crowley, '25. there as head coach when the latter joined the Navy in 19-12, Fordham subsequently dropped football for the duration. 
Mrs. John F. Kelley.1609 Sherman Dr., Utica i, N. Y., thoughtfully sends word of her naval husband, along with a check for his contribution to the Alumni Fund. She writes: **Dr. Ji^ui F. Kelley entered the Navy Dec. 7, 1942. as surgeon with the rank of lieutenant commander. He served six months at Sampson Kaval Hospital, Sampson, N. Y., after which he transferred to the Naval Air Force He was assigned to the 

U. S. Naval Air Station, Pensacola, Fla., July 3. fayette, Ind., pending the cloee of sdioc^ And 1943, where he took his flight course, and on Nov. forth^ planning^ 13, 1943, was graduated as naval flight sorgeon. 
Bob sends word that Pfcanudst Mate 1/G Since that time he has been serving as flight sur­CharBe McG—egfa is aboard an LST, reeerrins geon at the Atlanta Naval Air Station,. Atlanta. 
his mail throng N.Y.C. Tins word hy way of Ga." 
Charlie's sister, to Dr. Jaaws T. nanisaa of Colambas. to Riordan. 

1923 
 H. Castner, 2e Hoyt ATe^ New Paul Word also (late April) 
Canaan, Conn.  from Lt. fm sen, USNK, who was in England and enjoyinff 
Cpl. Neil Flinn, according to Paul Castner, re­(somewhat) the English countryside. 
ports his arrival in New Guinea. He says that he would probably enjoy the place a lot more if he 
1925 
Jalm P. Hukr. AFD, AMtricn B«d had some '23 buddies along. Also, says P. C, Cr«u» Cuip Patticfc Hour* Ta» Midtael F. Seyfrit, Carlinville, HI., is now sec­

retary of the Illinois State Democratic Central Geerse DiiscoD, Chillicothe, O., will,.with the Committee. Mike is a candidate for states attor­start of the new term in early July, give op his ney of Macoupin County. attractive position with the Soatfaern Ohio Quar­
Jim Clark, as chipper as ever, stopped in at 

ries Co. to take over as a professor in the CSril the Alumni Office in May to report that he is 
Engineering Department. Notre Dame. He and training director of the Magnavox Radio Co., 
his wife will move to South Bend as soon as they Fort Wayne, Ind. But he still has Lafayette. Ind., 
are able to find quarters. as the home port Jim was in the Air Corps for Stndefaaker sends word that A. J. Perta is now a year, leaving when the over-38 business went with the home <^Bces in South Bend, having re­into effect. 
turned from the Fadfic Coast branch in Los Angeles. 
1924 
J. F. Hayes, S9S 7th ATCW, Ulf. 
George Chao is teadiing philosophy in Aurorm New Yoric City. 
University, Shani^iu. (^na, according to word 

Lt. Col. Bob Riordan has moved from Purdue brought to Notre Dame by his good &iend. Most to Ft. Hayes. Columbus 18, O., where he is di­Rev. Paul Yn-Pin, bishop of Nanking, wfao^ ex­rector of storage for the Fifth Service Ckimmand. iled from his own country, has been in this ecmn­Bob's family temporarily remained behind In Lfr> 
try for some time-

NOTRE DAME PARTY IN THE ATLANTIC 
Lt. Hobie Shean, '31, writes: "A very •necestfnl Notre Dame party was con­ducted at this naval base in tke Atlantic on Universal Notre Dame Night. 
"We managed to dig np 12 loyal Notre Darners from the far comers of die base and from ships in the vicinity. Fortnoately, 11 of the 12 were able to make the dinner. There were many good friends there as guests, so that 37 sat down to a steak dinner at the officers' club. 
"Leo Cantwell, '26, was toastmaster. He introduced the following speakers: Capt. John B. Rooney, USN, Rev. R. J. Ireland, SJ., Navy chaplain here, brother of George Ireland, '36, and Lt. Jerry Moore, USNR, former sports writer for the'Boeton Herald' and a good friend of Frank Leahy. 
"We were very fortunate to have for the evening the football pictures, 'High­lights of 1943.' The pictures came' in by air and arrived jost as the meeting was get­ting under way.". 
Pictured (just a bit out of focns) are the II N.D. men at the dinner. Sitting, left to right, are Lt. Bemie Crawford. '39, Lt. Hoby Shean, '31, Lt R. J. Ireland, SJ.. Lt. Leo Cantwell, '26. Lt. (jg) Al Lee. '41, Lt. (jg) Bill Wade, '40. Stan£ng, Lt. (jg) Bill Lynch, '37, Lt. (jg) Frank Kriley, '39, Lt. L M Kramer, '34, Lt. (jg) Fraidc Griffin, '37, Lt. Tom Ashe, '31, and Lt. (jg) Frank Qninn, '42. Ensign Art Heigri. '43, was unable to attend because of his dnUes. 
A handsome picture of the handsome Cunning­ham, appearing in a Toledo paper, made known the fact that Lf. Ray, USNR. recently gave the Commencement address for St. Vincent's School of Nursing, Toledo. Ray's headquarters are in Cleveland. 
1926 
Victor F. Lemmer, Box 661, Ironwood. Mdi. 
Vic this time sent out letters requesting '26 news to: Lt. Herb Burt of the Navj-. Francis "Lew" Cod}', Indianapolis. Lyman Clark, Keno­sha. Wis., Bob Carey, Chicago, Capt. (Dr.) Georse Dolmare of the Army, Xorfa Engcls, Notre Dame, and Frank Klein of the "Globe-Democrat," St. Louis. 
Two of the three that came through with re­sponses were those in the armed forces. Burt and Dolmage- Herb, down at the Naval Air Station, Corpus Christi. Texas, WKS in touch with some of the local ci\'ilian alumni, especially Mike Need­ham, Panl Alartineau and Tom McArd!c. Some time before he wrote, he and many of the other 
N.D. men on the station — at least 30 — had the pleasure of assisting at Bishop O'Hara's Mass and eating dinner with him, by courtesy of the admiral commanding. Herb was the bishop's aide for the local tour and John McManraon was the master of ceremonies, assisted by Joe Clark. Bob Rt>hrbach and Steve Graliksr served the Mass. 
Georse DolmaEe writes that he has been in the Army for nigh onto two years, and in Nashville, Tenn., for a year. He is now a surgeon in the Air Service Command, and he is engaged in get­ting under way a convalescent-rehabilitation cen­ter for air force psrsonnsl. He sees practically nobody from Notre Dame except John Griffin, on trips through Chicago. 
Vic wrote to Engcls: "Are you still a musi­cian ?" Engels replied: "Only for the children once in a while, in the basement- Too many dogs around!" He then made modest reference to the Engels' versatility whereby the good professor, in these days of peculiar stress within the Universi­ty, is teaching both Shakespeare, as of old, and engineering drawing, a required subject for most V-12 naval trainees. Occasicnally too, as you've noticed, this veteran of Denny's tours, breaks into print in "Columbia," "America," etc., and he still makes elegant furniture. 
Ssrt. Bob Coleman, '42, wrote to Vic from Italy, enclosing a late April clipping from the "Stars and Strii>es" wherein was a paragraph about Cp]> Chuck Gninon, of the Canadian Army, "who couldn't wait until the United States got into the fight." Said the "S. and S." of Chuck: "He likes being with the Canadians, but has a hell of a time keeping up with the Notre Dame football team. He learned only a few days ago how his old school fared in the 1943 season." 
Ed Harsan, sending a contribution, writes from 450 W. 24th St., N.Y-C. 11, that he has joined the legal department of the American Petroleum Institute and really enjoys the w^ork. 
Charlie O'Connell, from Holyoke, Mass., who was with the '26 class in architecture for several years until illness forced him to drop out, is now in the Hampshire County Sanatorium, Hayden-ville. Mass., and would be delighted to hear from any of the old N.D. crowd. Until he landed back in the hospital, Charlie, who is in the contracting business in Holyoke with his uncle and his cousin, was tied up with much war construction. He adds: "Expect to be able to get back in the busi­ness this coming fall, with the help of the Lord and prayers." 
1927 JtMcph H. BoUnd, Station WSBT. Sontk Bend, Ind. 
From Joe BoUnd: In the last issue, tlie estimable Mr. Doolcy let 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
fly with what could be termed a hunk of innuen­do anent ye scriv.'s scrivening consistency. Ihat has already been cared for — man-fashion, face to face, and Mr. D. was lucky to te able to walk away from the scene of the crash. 
Actually, any absence from this accustomed space has been due to an on-again-oft-again-fin­negan act we've been guilty of in recent months, which saw us move from WSBT to WGN and back to WSBT: any day now, we expect to land in WBP, NLRB. or maybe even AMGOT, alpha­bets being what they are! 
For news, prime concern of this space, we've had to dig back into an alleged file to find an old clipping with the by-line of Joe BreisT. under a heading titled "Cit>' Hall," a column which appears in the Pittsburgh "Sun-Telegraph." 
While in Chicago, we attended the election meeting of the Chicago Club and there ran across any number of alums — with our usual trouble: we can't tell whether they're '27 or *87: it's getting so they both look alike! Freddy Ci4­lins, with a medical discharge from the Army, probably tattooed on his chest, was there — hut you know Freddy: couldn't pin him down. Jndce John Wallace was toastmaster . . . which ex­plains a lot about the meeting. Ridiard **Red** Smith, until he takes up his new job as assistant coach of the N. Y. Giants (football), is coach with the Milwaukee Brewers in the American Association. His most recent baseball picture in­dicates that he could act as chief Brewer. 
The other Bed Smith — Walter — is now 

sports editor of the "Philadelphia Record." 
Jim Quinn, of Rahway, N. J., is a Navy lieu­

tenant — in Washington, at last reports, after 
overseas duty. 
Jerry Le Strange is still headquartering in 

Chicago, with the "Southern Agriculturist." 
And Ed White is performing his legal duties 

with the Emmco Insurance Co., home office. 
South Bend. 
That's all for now — pardon me while I look around: someone may have a new job for me! 
Frank Oehlhoffcn, sales manager and advertis­ing director of the Bantam Bearings division of the Torrington Co.. South Bend, resigned that position in May to take up one as assistant to the president of Kaydon Engineering Corp., Mus­kegon, Mich. Frank had been with Bantam since 192S. A month before, he had been elected presi­dent of the St. Joseph Valley NJ). Club, and he was, of course, forced to resign that position also. Joe Boland was thereupon elected club president (just to keep the matter in the '27 family, it doesn't say here). 
Don Wilkins, promoted to lieutenant colonel, had been overseas for 10 months when he V-mailed in early May: He said: "Have been with Eighth Air Force PRO until recently, when I was assigned as air adviser to the public relations di­vision, supreme headquarters." Which means, doubtless, that our boy is seeing plenty of the biggest invasion stuff. Don was at the big Min­nesota-N.D. party held in London by "Stars and Stripes" in January, but the only "old timer" he's run into over there is Capt. Joe Reedy. 
Gene Knoblock, patent attorney In South Bend, has been appointed by Federal Judge Luther VL "Mike" Swj-gert as U.S. commissioner for the South Bend division of the northern Indiana fed­eral district, and AI Smith, La Porte attorney, has been appointed referee in bankruptcy for the same division. 
1928 
LMUS P . BocUer, 4481 MacArthar B1T<^ WuUaCtOB, D. a 
Bnckley. the Magnificent, on the road for the WPB, forwarded, with his customary efficiency, *28 letters from John McMahon, Georse Hartin and Tom Collins. 
John, in St. Louis on business, said: "I estab­lished contact with the long-lost Ter Williams some time ago. Tex is in a responsible post with some booming war industry in Nashville. He is the father of four fine daughters. Mrs. Williams is a St, Mary's girl. 
"Has anyone ever located Jim Morrissey, of the old Walsh Hall firm of Morrissey and White? Dr. Sol Solomon of Ebensburg, Pa., attended our smoker on the eve of the Pitt game . . . last fall. It was the first time I had seen him since the class broke ranks on the Sunday eve­ning in early June 16 years ago. Sol is a living refutation of the poet's lines that only a tree and truth retain their youth. 
"We elected Fritz Wilson president of the Western Pennsylvania Club on Universal N.D. Night. Jack Sheedy is a rising star in the in­surance industry in our parts. One seldom sees or hears of Turk Bleincrt. He changed jobs some time ago and is no doubt immersed in new re­sponsibilities. I spent a very enjoyable evening with Ijirry and the charming Mrs. Cnlliney in New York last December." 
John modestly neglected to say that he himself is doing an outstanding job as managing director of the Air Hygiene Foundation in the Mellon Institute, Pittsburgh. He is also one of the most effective members of the Alumni Association's committees newly formed to investigate place­ment activities within the Association. 
George Martin, writing from 917 7th Ave., Altoona, Pa., says: "The only Notre Dainer I hear from is my old Sorin Hall roommate, John 
E. Brannan, of Mt. Horeb, Wis., who is now a sergeant in the quartermaster division and who is located in Sicily. I got a letter from him just last week. .. . I am still an employment Inter­viewer with the U. S. Employment Service . . . and have been for the past seven years. I have been extremely busy for the past two years, staf­fing two war plants in this city. I would very much like to hear from the following 1928 , . . graduates: John Antns, John and Peter Beime. I manage to take in at least one N.D. football game a year and have still never seen a Notre Dame football team lose." 
Tom Collins (unmarried) resides at 166 New Boston Rd., Fall River, Mass., and among N.D. alumni, sees only Walt Goff (also unmarried). Tom is overseer of spinning, spooling and slash­ing for the Sagamore Mfg. Co., a textile concern in Fall River. He's been in his present job for more than five years and with the company for 12 years. Walt has his own business: the installa­tion and servicing of the vending machines in Fall River. 
Continued Tom: "John Bums is employed by the Soldiers and Sailors Relief Society. Jim Cooffan is a lieutenant (jg) in the Navy, and at this writing is somewhere in the Atlantic Both Jim and John are married." 
Lt. Cmdr. John Robinson, state director of selective service in Connecticut, has moved his family from Cheshire to 54 Kobin Road, West Hartford. Cpl. Al Gnr}* is assistant business manager of "Brief," the official publication of the 7th AAF, APO 953, San Francisco. Joe Lane-ton writes from 5S38 Neosho. S t Louis, to report the arrival of William Michael last September to join Molly and Susan, aged four and five. 
Charlie Short is chief review attorney for the regional WLB, 21 S. 12th St., Philadelphia 7. Pierce O'Connor has returned from the armed forces to civilian life, on an inactive duty sta­tus, and is again practicing law at 1044 Hanna Bldg., Cleveland. The Cleveland-N.D. Club cele­brated his return by electing him president, to succeed Jack Reidy. '27, who had admirably led 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 27 
the club to a remarkably successful year, wartime obstacles notwithstanding. 
Bill Kearney. 514 Cedar St. "Winnetka, 111., an assistant states attorney in Cook County (Chica­go). III., for the past 11 years, recently resigned to become negotiator for the surgeon ganeral of the U.S. Army, handling legal matters in con­nection with medical purchases. Jim Cullen, ac­cording to Dr. Andy Boyle, head of the Chemis­try Department, is a lieutenant (sg) in the Navy, receiving his mail through N.Y.C. 
1929 
Capt. JoMph P. McNaiaara, 1114 N. CMit HM M R<L, ArliactM, T*. 

Frank Smola is superintendent of schools in Nome, Alaska. Stephen Schneider (M.A. '29) is manager of the field office of the Social Security Board in Racine, Wis. From the Great Lakes, III., public relations office: OUie Schell had been pro­moted to storekeeper, first class; Bob Dick had been graduated from recruit training as honor man of his company. Bob spent his boot leave with his wife and two daughters in Denver. 
P. T. Chin, right, Chinese engineer, points to the "picture" of a voltage wave which saves 10,000 or so words of com­plex electronics data. E. E. Moyer, '29, center, operates industrial electronic equipment being studied. Both engineers are memhers of the electronics section, industrial control division, of the Gen­eral Electric Schenectady plant. They demonstrated to members of the Amer­ican Institute of Electrical Engineers in Boston how wave diagrams like those in the upper left hand comer of the photo can become real war-laboratory short - cuts in computing engineering data. 
1930 
Hmrold E. Duke, 4030 N. Broad St.. Philadelphia, Pa. 
John Recap. Indianapolis, is stite treasurer of the K. of C, elected at the recent state conven­tion. Henry Haslcy, '28. Fort "Wayne, past state deputy, was named a delegate to the interna­tional convention in Toronto, as well as a trustee of Gibault Home, Terre Haute, which is operated by the CS.C. Brothers. 
Mrs. Frank Hand wrote from 7 Memorial Square. Webster, Mass., to tell Harold Duke and the "Alumnus" that Dr. Frank, her husband, a lieutenant USNR. had been in service since Octo­ber, 1942, and that he was then in the South Pacific. Frank had been practicing in Epping, 
N. H. 
Vernon Slack has moved from Detroit to join the personnel department of the Oliver Farm Eauipment Co.. South Bend. 
Four *30 law graduates pre deeply involved in the November elections. Bob Grant. South Bend, Republican, and Marshall Kizer. Democrat, Fly-mouth, are opposing each other for congressman from the third district of Indiana. Bob is the in­cumbent Lining up the ranks in St. Joseph County are Loo Chapleau. South Bend attorney, who was recently elected county Democratie chairman, and Ed Smith, also a South Bend at­torney, who was reelected county Republican chairman. 
1931 

Ellis Blomstrom writes from his ship in the Pacific (his first ship duty since he was called to active duty in 1941) to tell of his pleasure in receiving the "Alumnus" and Father O'DonnelTs letters to service men. 
Tom Monahan, still at the old broom com stand in Areola, 111., is wondering, as he sends his contribution for 1944. as to John Berffan's successor. The Alumni Office is wondering too. and would be pleased to have any nominations, votes, suggestions or what have you from the *31 brethren. 
John Raleish, rcpresnting the Cleveland Metal Abrasive Co., Howell. Mich., stopped in at the Alumni OfUce for a brief chat on May 15. Lt. Joe Keogh. Jr.. USNR. a chest surgeon from Youngstown. O., is now cpsrating out o£ the Fleet Post Office, San Francisco. 
Lt. Joe Gardewine is. or was, stationed at the Newton D. Baker General Hospital. MarUns­burg. W. Va., according to word from Capt. Charlie Colton, '29, who is also there. Joe was to be godfather for the Coltons' new daughter. Charlotte Ann, born April 25. Kid Ashe, '22, wrote that his brother, Tom, '31. recently pro­moted to lieutenant (ss), ^vas due back in this country on leave in early June. Tom had been on a ship in the Atlantic. 
Billy Sullivan has been transferred from the big leagues to an even bigger one: as a lieu­tenant (jg) in the Navy, he was at the latest word, training at a southern base. Larry Mnllini, still at Iowa Fre-Flight, has been promoted to lieutenant commander. 
One of those right out in the front of the in­vasion of Normandy was a '31 man, Lt. Joe Kirby, Chicago, skipper of LST 315. according to Robert Cromie's dispatch to the "Chicago Tribune." Joe, originally from Waukegan, a Chicago suburb, had been a theater manager, a brokerage home employee and air condition­ing expert with General Electric before he joined the Navy in 1942. Trained partially at the Notre Dame V-7 school, he was assigned to an LST as executive officer, becoming a skipper on his own ship only three months ago. And before joining the Navy he had "never performed a nautical task more difficult than rowing a boat in Lincoln Park," according to Cromie. 
 James K. OolHiu. 1135 Hanchcstar 

1932 Lt 
Are., NorfoUc Va. 

From Jim Collins: 
Lt. Bill Jones stopped by from an Army trans­port recently for lunch and it was good to see him after all these years. He has been in the Navy since Sept. 21, 1942, and has been at sea with the Armed Guard for the past 16 months. His wife and 11-month-oId son (bom in June. 1943) are still in Rochester. After leaving here he wrote me a letter which stated in part: 
"Really good seeing you after, migosh. 12 long years! Talk of Notre Dame and the class of '32 has not really inspired my memory as yet but the next month or so at sea will give me a good chance to mull things over and give you a better report Most of the fellows I have run into from N.D. were from classes other than ours. For instance, one named Broderick (about '41) ; I met him in the American bar in Glas­gow. Just back from a long and rather arduous Hormansk trip — we had a lonr and interesting talk abo*at men nether o£ ns Imew in cotwon. Frmmk CmmmtOty, ex. '35, althoaa^ m Navy Hcntcsi­ant was loaned to the Marines for eonstmetiaii on one of the more torrid South Fadfie '•^i«*»« Hie last I heard he was sofferxn^ from one of the jungle illnesses and possibly to be shipped bosM. Frank Nert ^ '32. has been at Aberdeen Fronr­insT Grounds for some time, involved in Army personnel work. Tnuay B«ma was in the Army briefly but an old eye injury firom haskethell kept him from stajrinK. He is back with East­man Kodak's accountin? departmoit. Hcifc W<du>­kn is still milling about New Jersey and had tiie misfortune to lose his newlyjwm infant - aome tima back. Frank Oherfcaettcr is still with East-nun Kodak in Rochester and doing fine." 
TRIBUTE 
Recently, from an infantryman 
on the Anzio beacUiead, cam* tliis remailiable tribute to a '29 man; 
".. . Father Joe Barry is from Notre Dame — the most popniar and tmly-loved man in the regi­ment. Small and wiry—a handle of energy a great understanding of men—and a sharp Irish wit. He can make yon grin any time." 

Another welcome visitor was Lt. Bill BbCer­raidc who is stationed with the Amphibious Foroe at Little Creek.' Va. He is in diarge of orgaiuz­ing repair imits for ships of that force, whidi keeps him extremely busy. His wife and dangb­ter recently moved here. 
Lt. (jv> Baden Powell, sunburned and ddiy­drated from a gunnery training cruise on a bat­tleship dropped in recentiy and to!d of the activi­ties of many of the fellows. He said Art Ha ^ bert is working for the "Miami Herald** and tak­ing care of his young dau^ter; his wife died about a year ago. B«b Lcppert was in Miami while he was there and is now in the Navy; Don Garrity, '33. is a lieutenant (jg) in the DE training program in Norfolk. Jim Saccaiccde is a Navy lieutenant, and is the senior medical officer at Quonset.'R. L Hndsen Wie^mia» nuuN ried and father, of three children, is a CP,A., and living in Dumont. N. J. Lt. (jc) Bill Web­ster and Lt. Bill Gouelin were in Miami this winter. Both are in the Navy. 
Baden also said: "Jack filaboney, my civilian roommate in Houston, a '37 N.D. man, got mar­ried when the Army decided he was 4F and then he couldn't take the idea of seeing me and our other roommate, name .of CBiyan (now an Army captain), in uniform, so he enlisted in the Marines and is now going to R.O.C.S. for a commission. Tom Hardart, '38, is a lieotenant (is) and Tom Dmiey, *41, is a shipmate. They were both with me at Newport" 
Lt. (it) Bob Lee writes from • Ptinceton that he expected bis permanent orders about June 1­He had heard from Lt. (iff)' Charley Dserr ze* cently and Charlie had been sent to the Armed Guard Center at Gulfport. Miss. 
A fine letter from Ted Halpm states in part: "I ran into Andy Barton the other day in bt­dianapoUs. He has taken his physical exam fot the draft and expacted to be in nniform soon. He is married and has three children and lives in Cincinnati. His brother Dan, '30, is somewhere in Italy in the Army. 
"I received a letter from Jaba Keancy from 

England, where he is a major in the Army. He wrote that he had a recent visit vrith John Ban-non there. I believe Bannon has seen lots of this war because the last I had previously heard of bim he was in Africa; he was inducted here in January. '42. and spent a week with us when he could get away from Fort Harrison. Keaney's son, John, Jr., is a year and a half old now, and he and his pappy have never seen each other. 
"I have lost the address of Kenneth Kreps since he went to Camp Chaffee, and" would like to have i t Also the addresses of Joe B. Kennj-, Jack Skedtan, BUI Bfaywalt, Gcorfie Owen, Frank TrieweUer and Bob Hartman­
"A luncheon meeting of the Indianapolis N-D. club to commemorate the granting of tlie charter to the school by the state, was well attended: it deser\'ed to be because there were several fine talks by several state brass hats and climaxed by a brilliant talk by Father O'DonneU. I sat with John. '34, and Mike, M2, Carr and we saw practically everyone who ever went to K.D. and is still in town-I see Charley Quifrley regularly when I go to Richmond. I know all his friends will be happy as I was to learn that his wife ie in good health again. My twin brother. Ed, ex. '32, is a flight engineer on a troop carrier plane stationed in Sicily and has the Air Medal. He is a staff sergeant." 
Ted, incidentally, was scheduled for his physi­cal exam by his draft board during May but I have not heard the result. 
Stan CzpaUki writes that the Universal N.D. Night banquet in Chicago was well attended, and among those he saw there were Jim Lewis, Nul Hnric}-, Emfe Hechingcr, Paul O'TooIc (now in the Na\-y as a lieutenant 3g), Lt Bill Kirby, Ed Ry«n» Bert Hetzgcr, '31. and Major Ray Nabcr, *33. He says that Jim Dowrs is at Camp Beals, Calif., Moon Mallins is in Chicago with a blue printing company, and Barney Bernhardt is a lieutenant in the Nav>', somewhere in the south­west Pacific in charge of a gunnery crew. 
Gabe Moran was sent to Newfoundland with a draft of men from Sampson, N. Y. He likes it very well, and expects to receive a commission in the Navy soon. L t (jg) John Litcher has been sent to the Communications school at Harvard Unix'ersity from Miami. He says that Bill Blind. Frank Nolty and Joe Willis are also there in the officers school. 
I had an interesting visit with Spike McAd­ams. '3J, recently on his new ship- His is the first of this type of ship to be commissioned and Spike is very proud to be in command of it He said he had recently been home to see his wife and four children but missed seeing Nick Bohling drafted. 
Jack Jae^r» *33, has been commissioned pay clerk, a chief warrant officer rating, in the Navy after serving as a storekeeper for over two years. He is assigned as disbursing officer and is at sea at present 
FATHER BURKE IS CHAPLAIN 
Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., '32, prefect of discipline at Notre Dame, was sworn into the Navy as a chaplain in May and is now at the College of William and Mary, Williamsbnrgv Va., for his training course. Rer. Joseph Kehoe, C.S.C., '33, is acting prefect of discipline in Father Burke's absence. 

Promotions: Joe PetriU, Bob Cahill. '34. and ^'appy .Napolitano, all at N-D. until th ^ en­tered the Navy as lieutenants (jg), all have been upped to senior grade. Joe continues in the armed guard. Bob continues to hold down a South Pacific base in air communications, and NapP3' is still one of the large links in the phy­ed set-up at Iowa Pre-Flight­
P\-t. Jim Doaoet writes that his current address is 3700 AAF Base Unit 1108 15th St, Denver. John Gostisha* Jim says, is APO 516 out of N.Y.C. 
SIX O'TOOLES 
When Paul O'Toole, '32, Chica­
go, joined the Navy in May as a 
lieutenant, junior grade, be be­
came the sixth member of his fam­
ily in the armed forces. Four, of 
them are Notre Dame alumni. The 
other three are: Sgt. Justin, AUS, 
'36; 1st. Lt. Bartholomew, AUS, 
'39, and 2nd Lt. Kevin, USMCR. 
'42. In addition: 2nd Lt. Vincent, 
AUS, and Ensign Patricia of the 
WAVES. Robert is currently a 
Notre Dame student. 

Lt. Kelly Powers wrote in April to gi\'e his address: 304th Joint Assault Signal Corps, Fort Ord, Calif. He was mighty eager to hear from fome of his classmates. Wilfrid de St. Anbin of Grinitli. Ind. (near Hammond) is a club director with the American Red Cross in North Africa. 
1933 
Tiche Woods, 79J4 Ellis Arc, Chicsffo, IlL 

Catching up with Woods and with some of "Woods' mail (forwarded by the same as he was leaving with his other shirt on one of his prac­tically continual trips for the OPA out of Chi­cago) : 
Jack Brecn, Detroit, purchasing agent for the General Detroit Corp., manufacturers of fire ex­tinguishers and allied products, sent on an exten­sive clipping from the Detroit "Free Press" which contained a thrilling story by Lt. Eddie Moriarty, USNR, on a surface action in the P!ft­cific which resulted in the destruction of a four-ship Jap convo>' by a lone U.S. destroyer. Eddie joined the Na\*y soon after Pearl Harbor and is, or was, gunnery officer aboard an aircraft carrier. He used to he on the sports staff of the "BVee Press." 
Jack said that on Feb. 1 he became a father for the second time. Two girls now. 
Major Ray Xaber wrote from the Jeffersonville. Ind., Q.M. Depot (this was long ago) with news of Sgt. John Bsrrettr then at Camp Claiborne, La., and CpL Jim Gerend, then at the Marine Base, San Diego, 
Ray continued: "Pat Boms is an officer in an anti-aircraft outfit and was at Camp Haan, Calif. Jim GilfoU (Omega, La.) and I exchange our yearly letter with the note on Christmas greetings. He is now the father of two girls and a boy. Ross O'Shea passes through Louisville once in a while. He is selling insurance and is also business agent for a river boat pilots' associ­ation." 
Ray has been at the one post since rejmrtinsr for .duty as a second lieutenant on April 3, 1941. And he's right across the river from his home in Louisville. 

Tighe said that BIdrt Goodman, '30. is a pfe. at Camp Butner, N. C, and "has high hopes of making judge advocate through OCS.*' 
Lt. (jr) Jim Bonrfce writes from the Naval Air Station. Seattle, where he is an instructor. He says: **Fred Zeitlow- of Indianapolis is stationed at the Paget Sound Navy Yard, ser\*ing there as a welding officer. Lt. Cmdr. Bill Hawkes is oat here with a naval air transport squadron. Sev­eral weeks ago at a local Notre Dame get-together I bad the pleasure of bumping into Dick Meade, Lt. (ac) Johnny English and Lt. (jg) Paol Mey­ers, of the class of *28, 
Fr«n Jackson. Mich., Bill MarterstecVs mother writes that Bill is now a lieutenant (sg), ser\'ing in the South Pacific. In the service since Janu­ary. 1943. Bill ended up his training in this coun­try with a session at the aircraft turret school in Detroit. 
Pa«l Janson, Cincinnati, is serving with the American Red Cross in the South Pacific area. Lt. (it) Kitty Gorman is still ser\*ing in phy-ed at the pre-flight school. Chapel Hill. N. C. Lt. (jr) Frederick Seton Staley is assigned to Armed Guard out of New Orleans. His wife and their two sons are at their home in Cincinnati. 
1934 
JoMpli R. Glcnnon, Jr., Brook Manor, FkaiantTille, N. Y. 

Jim Keamfl, as you doubtless noticed, was the co-author of a fine piece in the "Saturday Eve­ning Post" on Byron Kelson, golf pro. Jim con­tinues as sports writer and sports columnist for the "Chicago Sun." and in outstanding style. Charlie Howard, formerly of South Bend, is in England as an assistant field director for the American Red Cross. Before entering the Red Cross, he was district supervisor of the Farm Security Administration, with his headciuarters in West Lafayette. Ind. 
Ralph Eke, inspector of naval material, writes from 23 Lansing St., Auburn, N. Y., to tell about seven-pound Leslie Anne, born May 28. Pvt. Joe Voe^ele was in early April at Camp Blanding. Fla., according to a note from his wife. Mrs. Voegele was still in Fort Wayne, Ind.. where Joe had Ijeen teacher and coach in Central Catholic High. 
Some months ago Capt. Joe Spalding was with a portable surgical outfit somewhere in Burma. The censor allowed Lt. Joe aarit, USNR, to say in a V-mail letter that he was, late in April, on the island of Oahu in Hawaii. Lt. I,arry O'Keill, USNK, is a blimp pilot on anti-submarine patrol duty. Paal McManns has been promoted to lieu­tenant (sg) at Fairfax Field, Kansas City, Kans., where he is ship's service officer. 
MURPHY IS DECORATED 
CapL James P. Murphy, '34, 
a former staff member of the St. 
Louis City Hospital, has been rec­
ommendeil for the Bronze Star 
for meritorious service while on 
offensive patrol in the wild Laru­
ma River district of Bougainville 
Island. Jim is already the recipi­
ent of the Silver Star for gallan­
try in action on New Georgia last 
summer. He is medical officer of 
an infantry regiment and has 
been in the Southwest Pacific for 
the past two years. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1935 
Frnikiyn C. Hodtrciter, 2118 Ticasm SL, New- Orleuu 19, Ls. 
Charlie Landmesser's mother wrote from East Orange, N. J., on May 28 to tell the Alumni Office that Charlie, a first lieutenant with the Marines, had participated in the Marshall Island inva^on and in some other hot action. He was married two years aso and his wife and seven-month-old daughter are back in Jersey-
Elmer Bamh«m, who received his Notre Dame degree with the class of *35 (when he was head coach at South Bend Central High School) re­cently moved as head football coach from Purdue to the "University of Rochester. Gerry Holinari, according to latest word from him (March 21), is, and has been for the past two years, em­ployed by an American aircraft firm in the British Isles. He was married on Oct 15. 1943, to Alice Patricia Bradley in Holy Cross (^urch, Belfast. He adds: "I haven't seen any NJ>. men over here yet I did hear that there was a tough Marine at Londonderry from N.D.. but never got to meet him." 
Arnold Morrison* Syracuse. N. Y., was all set to enter, the Navy, Fort Schuyler, N. Y- on May 29 as a jg lieutenant. And when he wrote he and his wife were waiting for their third child to join two previous daughters. Dick Prezebel, in India with the Air Transport Command, has been promoted to first lieutenant. 
(936 
Joseph F. BUnsfield. 34 Fifth St^ Pelham, N. T. 
From Jtie ftlansficid: 
The letters have been few since the last issue 
and the amount of news on the slim side. We've 
been hoping to hear frcm John Moran who is 
somewhere on the high seas as skipper of a gun 
crew. 
Here are some excerpts from a letter regard­ing London written by S^Sgt. Andy Mcfllahon: "During January I attended an ETC reunion of Notre Dame men. There were about 50 present and I heard of about 10 others who didn't make i t I spent the evening with Clyds Lewis. '34. and Neil FarrelU '35. Capt. Lewis is in the Air Corps, while 1st L t Fnrrell is in the Signal Corps. . . . As per usual, the Jerries were around that eve­ning, as they have been on all my visits. .. . Our life here is quiet with little or no variation in our program." [Ed*s note: This was written before the invasion.] 
.Capt. Fred Gabriel crashes through in his cus­tomary 100 per cent style. He says in part: "I'll not deviate from my practice of writing about the five of us who went to Jefferson Medical School together. They are the only ones in our class I have kept in contact with very well. . . . Our group really numbers only four now. As you probably know, Jimmy Qainn, Captain, M.C., was killed in a plane crash in England last July. There was one fine fellow. God rest his soul! John Brady wrote me this week from somewhere in the Central Pacific (I believe), where he saw action not long ago as medico with the Marines. John Francis Regis Shaffer, the Pittsburgh kid, now is a captain and is with an M.P. outfit at Camp Custer, Mich­
"My brother, Loa, .. . is now on the last lap of a course in tropical medicine at the Army Medical Cfenter in Washington. Then he returns to Camp Campbell. Ky- .. . I am now a veteran of four months overseas du^. .. . I always get a bang out of receiving the 'Alumnus.' .. . I find the music of the Victory March and mention of Notre Daroe as arresting as ever; invariably they make people look twice. . . . Today I had a letter from Lou. He recently received an announcement of the marriage of Leo Hofschneider (C&pt, 
M.C.) to an American Army nurse, Austrmlia. last September-A cousin of BiU GotUacker is in our outfit. 
I have a clipping sent on to me by Fnd Gabriel. It is from the Buffalo (N.Y.) 'Eveniiiff News' of April 12 and in it is reprinted a mag­nificent letter from Leo Hofachn^dcr to his mother. [The 'Alumnus' is proud to reprint the letter nearby in this issue—^Ed.] Leo entered the Army on July 1, 1942, and was sent overseas after spending 26 days at Carlisle Barracks, Fa. His wife, the former 1st L t Margaret Rose Can­gany. is at her Indianapolis honie awaiting the birth of their child." 
L t Al Rohol, Chicago, has been . in both the Atlantic and Pacific with the Navy and has seen lots of action. At the latest word from his (^ica­go employer, the W. A. Alexander insurance firm, he was in the Pacific. L t Cmdr. Tom DaMont. South Bend, former county surveyor, returned recently to his home on leave after spending 22 months in the South Pacific. His new duties are in Norfolk, Va. 
Irwin Crotty is immigrant inspector at the U.S. Border Station. St John. N. D. Major Ed Huts is now in Ensland. Didc fla««fcB was Netted r»­eently a director of the American Indastfial Bankers Association and appeared on the pro­gram <d the assodation's annual ecmvention in S t Louis. Later he was elected viee-prteident of the Junior Chamber of Commeree in St. Joseph. Ma 
1st Lt. Jae Sdimidt, Q.M.C., APO 812. Miami. Fla., writes that he's recently seen the "Ahm­nns" of Capt. Fred Simmi, *39. Joe's been in tlie same spot for many months. Dan Martin, *34, la in the same neigfaborimod. Beb ^•'*"***r writes from the Aircraft Material Office. Naval Sqpplr Depot. Oakland. Calif. He's in the Navy. Geacr­•• • LaMtUentc, a dentist, has been in the Army 
M.C. for two years and in Northwest Africa since January, 1943. Lt. (js) Bab Haley reported in New Orleans on May 22 for assignment as eom­mander of an Armed Guard crew. 
 Fdey, Apt. 1-D. Unit 4, Piiw­
wood Apt., Haxtsda>, N. T. 
1937 Paal 
You'd never know i t of course, but the class secretary has since early in the year been an important part of fashionable Westchester Coun­ty, which is an hour, or something, northward out of Grand Central Terminal. N.Y.C. H w ad-

THE THINGS I DREAM OF NOW 
The following letter was written to his mother from the South Pacific by Capt. Leo Hofschneider, M.C, '36, a doctor in an in­fantry regiment. It speaks, eloquently, for it­scl f. It was reprinted first in the Buffalo, 
N. Y., "Evening News" of April 12, 1944. 
"I've gotten so used to this business in the p3st couple of years that I sometimes wonder if there is any other way to live. 
"I've done enough and seen enough to last me for two lives. I've eaten yams and coco­nuts with natives, and traded razor blades for bunches of bananas: I've picked and eaten pineapples hot from the sun, with juice so sweet I've needed water afterwards. But I've changed a bit—and now I eat my meat and beans from cans—without a fork; it smears my face, but I can wips that off. My sleeves are dirty anyway. 
"I've watched our planes go out in numbers, and when they came back. I've counted them and breathed a silent prayer for those whose place in line was vacant. I've seen planes fight in spiraling arcs over the sea, and jumped and shouted for joy when a red Ris­ing Sun turned black and fell in flames, with streamers reaching out behind. I've watched our Air Corps bomb and blast the little buz­zards to their Shinto heaven, and I've been below while Japs bombed us and tried to send me onto mine! I've groveled on the ground at night when bombs fell near, and prayed for dawn, yet feared its coming because it meant attack! 
"I've counseled men who feared what's coming next, and I've sought advice from grizzled veterans of 23 to learn how to pro­tect myself—they taught me. too. I've seen these same men dash to certain death; I've seen others crack—and cry and curse, and still go back for more- I've held them in my arms to die. and laughed and joked with them to keep their spirits up. 
"I've seen big ships, and crouched in a small boat beneath the scream of their shells passing overhead, white smoke and flame ob­scured the guns, and noise like thnnder shook our small assault craft. 
"I'm with the infantry. I've seen that queen of battles charge from boats upon a hostile beach and plunge into the stinlung jungle where you couldn't see a foot ahead. I've gone with them—so scared I shook and sweated— yet couldn't give my feelings any vent be­cause my men were near, and I'm siipposcd to be a man to lead. I've slept in water to my waist and used my poncho to cover my sup­plies instead of me. I've lugged a pack so heavy that X couldn't straighten np—because men with bullets in their bellies need plasma right away, and chafes across my back .don't hurt as much. 
"I've stood out on the beach and watdbed a hundred dawns, and looked towards home across the sea and wondered how the traffic was on Main S t It can't go on forever, and some day I hope I can get home to do the things I dream of now. To sit and smoke and listen to a band; to take a rum and coke; to eat fresh mayonnaise and lettuce; to go to church and see the. gang around the comer afterward' Simple things, themselves, but their importance grows. 

"Now I have a wife, and a family will be mine pretty soon, and there's nothing I want more than to come home and watch it grow, bat if coming home means that I have to turn my back just once and shirk my duty, thai. I won't be hack. I rather like this life, though at times I get discouraged, but I real­ize that I'm useful here, and I enjoy the req>ect and confidence of the men it's my job to patch up­
"Occasionally, these Japs drop bombs on ns —they're either bombs or something else. Ihey scream when they come down. Th ^ may he just old peanat roasters. I don't think ^ao though, because I've looked into the holes ther make, and nover found a whistle, or any peanuts, either. 
dress is above. About JSA. 2, Paul joined Xhe Overseas Branch of the Office of War Informa­tion, 224 W. 57th St., N.Y-C„ on a six-months working^-trainins basis prior to overseas assign­ment. At the latest code messa^fe from him he was awaiting a particularb' interesting chaperon­ing: assignment in the U-S-A. Overseas work is scheduled for late summer. The Foleys sold their elegant new home in Grosse Pointe, Mich. 
Lt. Richard J. Carroll, '37, Hew a P-38 to England in July, 1942, and was one of the first Americans to put a Lightning into action in Algiers, land­ing there Nov. 8, 1942. He was shot down over Gabes, De c 30, and captured by the Italians after being on 20 mis­sions. 
As a prisoner of war being taken from Africa to Italy, Dick was put on a submarine that was bombed by the 
R.A.F. and sunk in the Mediterranean, Jan, 14, 1943. His parents in Chicago haven't received any further word about the accident or about him. He is a brother of Bill Carroll, '33, and a brother-in-law of John O'Leary, *39. 
Fatber Joe EnsHsh, M.AL, was ordained a priest of the Catholic Foreiffn Mission Society of America at Haryknoll, N. Y., on June 11. He sang his first solemn Mass in his home parish, Newburgh, N.Y. , on June IS. He hcs been as­signed to special work for the Marj'knoll Fathers in N.Y.C 
Larry Weiss, SK 3/C was at the naval base in San Bruno, Calif., when he w^rote in March, Lt-John E. KcUey was with the 805th F.A- Bn., Camp Barkeley, Texas, in early May. Capt. Bill Fitzpatrick, in the Army since July, 1941, is APO 595, N.Y.C. Larry Danbom was promoted to lieutenant (jg) at the Iowa FVe-Flight School. Eniitm Jim Baocn was scheduled to report to Fort Schuyler, N. Y., for indoctrination on April 28, following eight months for the AP in Albany, 
N. Y., where he v.'as early N.Y. state editor. One of his co-workers there ^vas Jim Munn, '33, Rochester, N. Y., correspondent for the AP. 
Eniism Jim Nolan writes from the Central Pa­cific: "I have been with the Na\"y since October of 1943, and am in the Pacific area now, on duty with Naval Aviation. Prior to entering the Navy, I worked for Republic Aviation on Long Island as manager of their control tower and airfield. 
**I have a lovely daughter, Margaret Diane, just past tvro years old. Have not heard moeh from William "Birats" McCartiiy and HsrrisMi Pierce but understand they're both officers in the Army and Na\-y respectively. . . . Saw Dan Hanley . . . several months ago in San Fran­cisco. .. . I was indoctrinated with HoffauuUf the former N.D. football player and coach." 
Phil Bond! has found it necessary, unhappily, to return to Rockford Sanitorium, Rockford, III. (Box 877). Say a prayer for him so that he'll get out quickly. And by all means drop him a line at your first opportunity. 
1st Lt. AI Sdiafer is (or was in March) aide-de-camp to the commanding general. Major Gen­eral Frederick Gilbreath, at the San Francisco Port of Embarkation. Capt. John F. "Sam** Dunne. '28, is on the staff in the same spot- Lt. (jg) Bemie Niezer is operating in the Pacific for the Navy. 
1938 
Harold A. WUUaois, 432t HaiUchall Bd., Baltimore, Hd. 

From Hal Williams: Just a few letters, several notes, and a news­paper clipping for the column this issue. You fellows are slipping. How about some news? 
Hrst, a V-mail note from Lt. William J. Co«r, APO, N.Y.C. Writes Bill: "Sweating it out in a foxhole these days. .. . In six more days I will have completed two years overseas. Have seen the British Isles, put in almost a year in North Africa and have been battling around Italy for quite a while. . • . Haven't run across many of the fellows, (He mentions one of the boys but I can't make out the last name). He also says , that Tom Fl3^n is stationed in Baltimore. How about maldng yourself known, Tom? 
Now a V-m^l letter from Cpl. Edmond Bart-nett. Ed, now in England, says that just before embarking he came down with pneumonia and was hospitalized for three weeks. Ed has bmnped into Ist Lt* Bill Tonmey, no^v a public relations officer, and had a letter from T^4 Jim (Bing^ hamton) Sallivan who is in the Pacific. 
Now a note from Father Dave Fouelman^ C.S.C., class of '39, stationed at the Holy Cross Seminary at school. He writes, "Thought you might like more news about Major Bill Bf^rinr-I had the happiness of seeing him on St. Patrick's Day in Huntington, Ind.. It was his first trip home in 15 months." Father Dave also says that Bill was seeing his baby for the first time; at first she ran away from him, possibly because Bill was sporting a six-inch handlebar mustache. 
Pfc. Charlie Callahan, still ^vriting sports for the Peterson T^eld (Col.) "Wingspread." had a nation-wide audience recently when he was a guest star in Hugh Fullerton Jr.'s AP sports column. Nice going, Charlie! 
I'm expecting a visit from my old roommate. Bud Sherwood, this week-end, and that's about all the news I have 
There is brief word of Father Tom Cleary, of the diocese of Rochester, N. Y., who was or­dained in June. 1942. Lt. (jg) Bob Bryan after some exciting service as a doctor in the Atlantic is assigned to the U.S.* Marine Hospital, Detroit. Lt. (jg) Bill Hahoney gave up California for the beauties of Georgia Pre-Flight, Athens. 2nd Lt. Ed Haggar. having finished OCS at Miami Beach on March 5. 1944, is civilian personnel officer at Wendover Field, Utah, according to a note from his wife. 
FVomotions: Jade Lacey, once secretary to Father Hogh O'DonncU, to lieutenant colonel in the Air Corps; Pan! Nowak, to lieutenant (jg) in the Navy. Lacey. he said in a V-Ietter not too long ago, had worted a lot with Capt. T*m Meagher* baseball player of the early thirties, who is with the Air Force engineers. At one air­port Meagher had charge of building and Lacey had charge of running. 
Ray Meyer has signed a three-year contract as athletic director and head basketball coach at DePaul, Chicago, where he's enjoyed super success. Dan Boyle, having got his M.D. in De­cember, 1943, is doing his intemeship in St. Mary's Hospital. Philadelphia 25. Sgt. Fan! Sdunb was vrith the Service Co., 311th Inf., Camp Pickett Va. 
Set. John Beer in many months overseas (he's in the Pacific) has met only two N.D. men: 1st Lt. Jade Clifford, '42, serving ^vith a Marine tank outfit, and Father Heindl, a G.S.C. chaplain. He spoke of them in a recent letter to Father Haifa O'DonncU, president. He ended: "Had some ex­perience with prayer in a foxhole and its effi­cacy cannot possibly be overestimated." 
When he wrote on St. Patrick's Day, Lt. Dave Connor, also in the Pacific, had just read the October and December issues of the **AIumnus" and wanted to give *oS a lift. But he, like John Beer, hadn't seen many N.D. men. Bob Micfalos, *37, was with him but Capt. Jirfin Cclla, '39. had nroved on. 
1939 
Vbctiit W. DaCMrsty, 1S21 Ossigta, 
aty. 

Lt. (jg) Dave Heslcill, along ^vith his check for the Second Annual Alumni Fund, sent in a lot of news on March 29 from his ship in the Pacific He said: "Don't see very many of the old gang, but ever so often one turns up. Ran into Charlie McCarthy, '40, the other day, fresh out of the States, and supply officer of an ad­vanced air base. Joe HcDcrmoU, '39, is running around on a tanker as assistant first lieutenant, and we managed to have a couple of beers to­gether a couple of weeks ago. 
*'PhU Lacier, '42, is paymaster on another de­stroyer that has seen plenty of action for over a year. Had a good session with him not long ago. but haven't seen him since. Gas Dereame, '42. w-as paymaster of another can in our squad­ron, but was relieved recently by another N.D. man. Ray Roy, '43. . . . Still hewing they will send me back one of these days, esi)ecially in time for that Notre Dame-Dartmouth game in Boston in October-" 
Narh Aleksis, serving with the Air Transport Command, in India, has been promoted to cap­tain. He's been in service since July 2. 1942. Lt. (jg) Chadc Reddy recently spent a leave with his wife and with his parents in South Bend. When he sent in his contribution in April, Pvt. Ray Kane was at Camp Claiborne, La. And when Lt. <JK> Ed BroMoe did ditto in ditto month, he was at the Naval Air Navigation Radio School, Gainesville, Fla. 
Capt. Phil Bfisioney of the Marines wrote from the Pacific to send in bis contribution and to tell the "Alumnus" about his new daughter. Maureen, bom in Washington, D-C, on March 10. 
1940 
Lt. Bahert a Sanfoid, S9Si K. Maiy^ laad An^ HUwaokee, Wis. 
From Pete Sheehan: 
Heard from Chick O'Brien, who had com­pleted his course here and w*as gathering his crew at the Air Force Replacement Depot in Tampa. He said. "I have run into Boh Dom, here as a co-pilot, and Ted Frckowitz, who has just finished his ASTP course and is now at Drew Field for assignment. I've got all my crew hut the navigator." 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
A. M, <Bnd) Bernard writes from the South Pacific: "Met Ed Doyle, *40. at a field some 10 or 15 miles from here where he is on duty with a Black Cat squadron. He is a naval pilot and re­cently made lieutenant- Gcorse Moriarity, '36. is on duty as recreation officer at this base. Is doing a swell job, too." 
Bill O'Harc and John Ward are at Quarter­master OCS at Camp Lee, Va., and will he com­missioned in July. 
The class secretary, hi. Bob Sanford, is quar­termasterins in New Guinea. A letter he wrote on May 5 said that he had arrived on April 21 "on this island of mud. rain and insects. . . . Have acquired a pair of hipboots and I practical­ly sleep with them on. It's not safe for a short guy like me to go very far off the beaten path 'cause some of these mudholes are plenty deep.*' 
Bob's dad in Milwaukee (like Mr. Patterson for *41, a grand acting secretary) forwarded to the "Alumnus" a couple of recent letters ad­dressed to Bob. The first was from Lt. (jg) Ed Fnlham in the Pacific. He wrote: "Yesterday was like being back in old St. Ed's. Saw a copy of *Our Sunday Visitor* containing Father Gart­land's smiling photograph. Two "Alumnus* came aboard in the mail — first ones I've seen in nearly a year — and then at the movies that night I saw- the Great Lakes-N.D. game in the newsreel. If we had beaten G.L., it would have been a perfect day. 
"I*ve been bouncing around the Pacific on a destroyer for about 15 months now. We've cov­ered a lot of ocean and I'm always looking for a familiar N.D. face — no luck so far. The last one I saw was Bad Gentner in Los Angeles over a year ago. . . . Jim Casper, now at Seymour Field, N. C, sent me a photograph of Norb Sdiickers wife and child." 
The second letter to Bob was from Tom Duffy's mother in Evanston* lU. Tom is serving in the Pacific as a first lieutenant in the Marines. He and his wife are the parents of Tom, Jr., born Feb. 25, whom Pop hasn't seen yet. Mrs. Duffy continued: "Tom says he has met a great number of Notre Dame men out there, and that each meeting brings a new thrill." 
Mr. and Mrs. Sanford heard some time back from Capt. Tom Barry of the Marines, also in the Pacific, who, though wounded in action, had recovered fiilly and was back with his company. Tom had seen or heard of in that area. John Qninn, '41. Jock Henebry, Jim Donoghae and Joe Znercher, '41. 

Bob forwarded letters he had received from Lt. (jg) Loais Cenni, U.S. Naval Hospital, Brooklyn, N. Y., and from the father of Capt. Tom Liston, APO 638, N.Y-C. At the hospital Louie was, of course, seeing plenty of the horrors of war. In N.Y-C. he had seen Lt. (jg) Bill Mc-Cloy and he was in touch with Dr. John Flynn and Dr. John Kelleher who were doing their in­ternship at Kings County Hospital, Brooklyn; both of the latter will soon he in Army uniform. Ijouie had also had a pleasant chat with Father Lee, C.S.C., who is doing graduate work at Co­lumbia. 
Mr. Liston said, (on April 4) that Tom Jr., went to England around Dec. 1. 1943 and that he had been on combat missions several times. He had been awarded the Air Medal in February and. soon after, the Oak Leaf cluster. He had attended that N.D.-Minnesota reunion in London in mid-January but hadn't seen any *40 men. 
"Generally recognized king of Southwest Pacific attack bomber pilots" is the title which has been accorded in recent press dispatches to Jock Hene-
Six former students of tlie Univeruty were recently woridng tofether at a Ninth Air Force station in England. They are, left to right, Cpl. Robert E. Duffy, '31; Sgt. Frank J. McDonoogh, '41; Lt. Co!. Robert E. CVHara, '20; 1st Lt. James E. Curran, '40; Cpl. Michael 
T. Scanion, ex. '42; and CpL Lawrence 
J. O'Connor, '38. 
bry, a lieutenant colonel. According to these dis­patches, in May, Jock hsd accumulated 470 hours of combat time while carrying out IIS comhat missions. He had made two crash landings. He was leader of a group which had, among other things, destroyed 440 Jap planes, sank 104.000 tons of shipping and probably sank or damaged an additional 120.000 tons. His group, flying medium bombers, specializes in masthead bomb­ings. 
Lt. (jg) John D. Gavan, '40, Milwaukee, was awarded the Air Medal for meritorious achieve­ment in an attack against the Japs at Rabanl on Nov. 5. The following citaUon, signed by Ad­miral W. F. Halsey, USN, tells the heroic story about John: 

"For meritorious achievement while participat­ing in an areial attack against the enemy as leader of a fighter plane section daring the raid on Japanese warships in the strongly fortified harbor of Rabaul, New Britain, on November 5, 1943. Lieutenant Gavan followed his division leader into terrifically heavy and accurate anti­aircraft fire following his particular group of dive bombers. With utter disregard of his per­sonal safety and intent only with the purpose of getting the group he was protecting in and oat again, he approached, dived and pulled out with them, dodging antiaircraft bursts and beating off enemy fighters until the attack was completed and the danger over. His daring ability contrib­uted largely to the success of the attack both in enabling the hombers and torpedo planes to con­centrate on their respective targets free of fighter opposition and in protecting the group in the most vulnerable stage of its atttick. Although his plane was damaged, he probably destroyed one enemy fighter and damaged an additional one. His courageous conduct w-as in keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Naval Service." 
In April John participated in an air- blow against Saban Island and Lhonga airfield on Su­matra, managing to fly back to his carrier although he had lost a third of his tail surfaces. John had returned from an earlier strike off his carrier with 54 holes in his plane. 
Jim Byrne, teaching now at Culver Military Academy, 35 miles south of South Bend, hits the 
N.D. campus occasionally. The PRO of the Ninth Air Force in England says in a lengthy dispatdi that 1st Lt. John O'Brien, an ordnance officer for a troop carrier wing, played nine holes of golf on recent leave at a seaside resort T«ai Hosty, sending his contribution to-the Second Alumni Fund, writes from Sincere and Co., stock brokers. 231 S. La Salle St.. Chicago. 
Flisht Officer Tommy Shields, a glider pilot. 

not Umg ago was naned the oBtatandinff attilcte of his gradnatiaff class at Tiutliorir, Texaa Am ' Csaptr entered the AAP photognvhy sAool at Tale on April 11 and will be a aeeaad Heoleaaat upon soeeessfnl completion, lat. 14. BOI Kmvia 
is asMBtant maintetiance oflteer at Tfaikcr Aimy ' 
Air Fidd, OUabona City, Okla. 
F^romoticai: Bab SaBvaa, executive oAeer witii a tztKq> carrier unit of the Ninth' Air Fbxet ia England, now a captain. Comnussdon; Ilea Wn^ nmMp second Ueutenant in the AAF; gradostrd, Ccrfurabus Air Field, Cblninln& Miss-. Kay 23. 

Harry StcTcas^, in the Signal Cbrps, is in diarge of the athletic program at an Aimr re­plaeement depot in England. Jafca 8ihi—dir, SJ., writes that he is now at ^rin^hill OoUeg^ Mobile, Ala. 
You of course read, or heard about, the nlficent article. "The Battle 'Without a Name,** which Capt. Bab Blake of the Marines had ia the '^Saturday Evening Post" not too long agou Bob told a fascinating, psychologieal story of a battle experience in the South Pacific It's sometiiing. 
Capt. Maarice Nemaa, *40, Eagle Grove, la.. has been awarded the Air Medal for meritorious achievement as a Marine fighter pilot in the Sc^o~ mon Islands area last year. 
Maurice teamed with another filter pilot to destroy an enemy dive bomber. Aug; 21. lliree days later, while .on patrol, his two-plane ffin^t was attacked by a formation of 16. Zeros. Al­though hopelessly outnumbered, he dove to tlie attack and shot down one Zero and assisted ia scattering the remainder. 
1941 LI. Jsfea W. Fattivaaa. Jr^ J 
LT. JOHN W . PATHSSON, JK., '41 

[Ed's, note: We'asked Mr. Fatteron for a pie­tnre of himself so that you of '41 eonld haw a look at the man wbow in the ahaence overseas of his son. is doins; so much to keep class intcaest alive. He modestly refused the leqoest. aikiiiK that we use instesd. if we wished, this picture of John, Jr. So here it is. and very handaooe too> we think. Pat. in England at the latest report, after service in Africa and Sicily, is athletic ofll­cer of his outfit and editor of the division paper; "The American IVaveller." By now he ia pro^ ably in Konnandy or leyond.] 
Mr. Palltm a forwarded some letters, aa usoaL One. written April 6, was from 1st Lt. Pat PK|. nam, who was then at Selman Field. Moarac La., in the Air Corps. Fat had recently seen only three N.D. men: Frank Haleadtoctr, wbo was stationed at Selman Field as a pilot; 
Bice, an ensign with the Merchant Marine in New York; and Chet SnlHvan who, with hts vrife, was momentarily in Dalhart Texas, but had just been ordered to report to Gulfport, Miss., to handle phy-ed work. 
On June 10. Dnke Horphy, lieutenant. TJSNR, wrote from Miami, Fla,, as follows: "Just re­turned to the States after 20 months in the Southwest Pacific and. needless to say. I am very happy to be hack. It was a thrill to fly over the Golden Dome last week, while en route to Cleve­land to see Babs McCbrmack and make final plans for .our weddinff there on the 17th of this month­
"AI Ferine was on his way to the West Coast while I was heading^ East. Tom Mallisan just rated chief patty officer and transferred to Camp Wallace, Texas- Bill Kramer, lieutenant, AC, was in Africa at last letter •\\Titinsr. Have been trying to get a line on Ed McHugh but no luck yet, 
"When my Iea\-e expires I report in Florida: will be there two months. Then your guess is as good as mine-" 
Mr. Patterson had had word of the Dillon brothers, throui:h their father, from Butler, Pa. Oiaiiie* president of the class of '41, is now a first lieutenant in New Guinea, ser\-inff. at the latest report, as aide to one of the Renerals. He was commissioned in Australia. John Jr., MO, is a lieutenant (jgr) in the NaxT and was recently serving in the Atlantic. 
Aviation Kadio Technician Zjc John Cissne re­turned to Corpus Christi, Texas, after a leave with his wife and son and his parents in South Bend. Lt. (jg) Walt Fe^an, also of South Bend, js aboard a supply ship in the Atlantic 
2nd Lt. John A- Stack, co-pilot of the Eighth AAF Flying Fortress "Liberty Ship," has been awarded the Air Medal for meritorious achieve­ment while participating in the heavy bombing assaults on vital Nazi military and industrial targets in Europe. 
Jim HcGnth, a veteran of almost two years in the Coast Guard, recently was advanced to quartermaster, first class. He is serving in the Atlantic- Didt Mincezeski, who received his M.D. from Indiana University, is interning in Mercy Hospital, Gary* Ind. He has his commission as a first lieutenant in the Army. Frank McDonougfa. a correspondent with Ninth AAF in England, was advanced to the grade of staff sergeant 
A note from his wife (with his contribution to the Second Alumni Fund) says that Lt. (jg) Bob Howley is operating a PT boat in the South Pa­cific- Ensign Emery Beres, also in the Pacific, says that Fred Hoover, *42, is with him (or was)­Emery had also seen Jerry Killigrew, Bob Sag­gau. Bob Raaf and Danny Bradley in various spots. Mrs. George Ferrick writes that George, a first lieutenant in a ssrvice group, is in England. Ensign Don Tiedemann is assistant supply officer at the Naval Auxiliary Air Station, Fallon, Nev. 
1942 
Pvt. Wmiam E. Scanlon, Public ReU­tions Office, Ft. Sheridan. VL 
From Scoop Scanlon: Late in April came the bad news that Lt. (jg) Hercales Bereolos was reported missing by the Navy. Herky is believed to have lost his life in a plane crash in the Pacific 
This time we introduce a new contributor to the '42 doings. He' is Lt (jg) Bob Matthews who air-mailed a splendid communique from somewhere in the Fkcific, dated May 12: 
".. . I am in the Naval Ser\*ice, serving on a PC boat in the South Pacific as executive officer. I expect to get command Sept. 1 of this year. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Capt Milton £. Williams, '41, of South Bend and Elkhart, Ind., is shown chatting with Queen EUzaheth of Eng­land in the Churchill Club in England* Milt is an Army intelligence officer and has been overseas for nearly a year and a half. He was commissioned Oct. 14, 1942, and married the same day.to Miss Mary Bowser. 
Bill Baader is in our squadron and is engineer of the . I have seen quite a bit of him lately. I don't know how fine arts and dlesel engineering ever got together, but Baader has the job. 
"Baader and I met Bob Hargrave, Wade Nods* Boh Aladdock and Mike Kelly, all in one f^l swoop at one of the Island officers* clubs last month. Hargrave is a boat officer on an attack transport. Maddock and Noda are cargo officers on the same transport, and Kelly is a communi­cations officer. Needless to say, we had quite a reunion, after which I was delegated to 'write to Scoop.' We have since heard that Phil Lacier was on board a tin can not 600 yards from the club, but none of us got to see him. Maddock, who when I last saw him, was nervously aw^aiting the arrival of a blessed event which certainly roust have occurred by now. 
".. . I met 'Colonel' George Saxon in San Diego late last summer and he was flying a big PBM for the U.S. Navy. Yes. it is true, Saxon has the trousers of his uniforms pegged. I re­member that there were quite a few bets on that item in Alumni Hall right after George enlisted. 
. . . Will be looking forward to that five-year reunion in '47." 
Another of the class of '42 is in the thick of action. John A. Deery of Indianapolis, father of Lt. Paul, reports that Paul was rushed over to the Anzio beachhead early in March as a replace­ment. Inside of five weeks he was permanently assigned as battalion adjutant. An extract from one of Paul's letters said: "I've seen planes dis­integrate in mid air, others spin in leaving a smoky trail. Have also heard the whine and then the dull thud of shells." Paul has been living in a fox hole which he helped build w*ith two other lieutenants. 
From somewhere in New Guinea, Pf c Olen Parka, the bouncing tennis ace of our era. on April 14, V-mailed this communique: "We are plugging along out here in the swamp and» I am telling you, I'll be glad when it is over. The pmst winter I was stationed in Hawaii and played a great deal of tennis. Played in several matches at the Univeruty of Hawaii and out to Hirkham Field and other places. When we got ready to leave Hawaii for our next stopi I put two rackets in my belongings and now I can't even find a tennis court in this forsaken place. 
"Had a very nice letter from ProfesBor Lang­fard the other day. telling me all about the com­ing tennis season at Notre Dame, and he still sounds like Frank Leahy: 'Not much hope this year, etc.' But he should have a good club with Jerry Evert, younger brother of Jimmy, and I bt^e that he can beat old Northwestern." 
At last report. Steve Jnzwik. a chief specialist, was teaching boxing to naval trainees at North­western University. Imagine the repercussions of war — Juzwik. a Chicagoan, at Northwestern and he may be on the football team there this fall if he is still assigned to the V-12 program. 
From the San Antonio, Tex., Aviation Cadet Center, AfC Leo linck postcards: "So far it's been a great place, but they haven't turned on the heat yet- Got in the Skyline Patrol Chorus." Leo, who had been doing library research for Justice Boyle of the Michigan Supreme Court in Lansing before entering the Army in the last week of April, donned the khaki at Fort Sheri­dan and we met at a dance in the Post gym­nasium. 
While home on furlough from duties as intel­ligence officer for a bomber group at Green­ville, S. C, Lt, Jack Dinges telephoned from Downers Grove. 111. Jack said he had run into Jerry Orosx, a naval aviation cadet, while in Chicago. He also reported that CpL Hank Dahro last wrote from Camp Roberts. Calif., and that Tom Kanfmann's latest address was Camp \Vhite, Ore. Jack got to visit Bill Reyniddft* folks in Asheville. N. C, a while back, and he ran into BUI Kirby at Camp Croft, S. C. 
From somewhere in North Africa, S l/c Steve Pavela V-mailed that he, is working in the cloth­ing divi^on of the Navy. '"'Oh, for good old Carroll I^ll back at Notre Dame -^ I'd never complain ag^n." Steve wrote. 
After donning the blues of a Naval Ensign at Fort S<*uyler, Bron.x, N. Y.. C^rge Uhl. the ex-engineer, took up the pen and wrote: "I met some Wave ensigns at the Ritz-C^rleton party, and one w-as from Oneonta, N. Y. She knew two of the old gang: Joe Roridc, who is still a civilian, working somewhere in Massachusetts in a war machinery plant, and Bill Hampel, who, she says, is flying (TJSAAC) in Burma. Bill is married and has a child. Joe Rorick was also married recently, to a St. Mary's girl." 
Uhl had called while visiting Chicago just be­fore entering Schuyler and let him take over: "I left Chicago and visited school where I saw SMamel*, Bannigan and also Father Hooyboer, as well as Jim Armstrong and several other profs and members of C.S.C." 
While attending the New Rochelle College sen­ior ball the last week in April, UbI bumped into Fred Paaliaan, who lives in New Rochelle. and Jaluiny Hoser, '43. Greg Rice was there too. Paulman later wrote Uhl and said he saw John BedaiMid in church the next day and that he is getting to see Byron Kanaley quite often. 
T/5 Eddie Edmonds, class of '40, stopped at Fort Sheridan, after a tour of duty at Camp Grant. Hie was expecting a new assignment overseas. Pfc, Sal Lapilaia, the former waiter de luxe of Bayonne, N. J., also came up one day from Lcqrola University in Chicago, where he is learning to be a doctor the Army way. 
Among his med school buddies are Ed Glaswr, Felix Ijowrick and Joe Berffan. While visitinsr at St. Louis University not Ions ago, Sal ran into Frank Marphy and Ed McGIew, both students there. 
Another ex-Notre Dame ioumalist -worldng in Array public relations Is Pvt. Jim HdDon­ooshf he with the golden voice, at Scott Field, 
III. Jim came through -with some mighty newsy notes: 
"Cpl. Jim Whakn, ex. '44, is now an MP in India where he has been for eight months and he dislikes the cUmate and the lack of civiliza­tion around Calcutta. Dick B(>die is in Loyola Med school and SiSgt. Mike Kinnare is now sta­tioned at a P0 £ on the west coast. Loo Bonder is now in Australia, taking care of maintenance. Srt. Charles R. Sidner has been in New Guinea for two years, and is credited with numerous Jap skulls. Prt. Joe Taaffe is at a FOE on the west coast. 
My brother Frank, '41, is now officially a war correspondent, just made staff sergeant, and is stationed in England.". 
From Mrs. Lora Lashbrook. the Law School's favorite, comes this news-filled communique: 
••En*. Jim McVay has troubles trying to get a copy of the •Alumnus-* He hasn't received one since graduation. Lt. Rsy Qninn, Army Air Force, supplemented a nice letter with a welcome . photograph this week. He is stationed at the Soux City, la., air base but expects a change of address soon. Lt. Bill Hosinski of the air corps flew in for a brief visit and brought his new wife out for a call. Bill was apparently using his customary good judgment in the selection of a bride. She is a beautiful blonde, but unfortunate­ly for Bill, outranks him. She is a WAVE lieu­
tenant. 
"Those who received the April issue of the 'Alumnus' have the story of our Lt. J. J. Barr of the Marine Corps. Since publication we have a detailed report of the Tarawa battle from one of Joe's men, one Mr. Bey of St. Louis, who lost his sight as a result of the fight He tells us that Joe led a platoon of the first 600 men to go ashore on Tarawa, and that of the 600, only 40 survived and that of 40 survivors practically none escaped injury of isome kind­
"According to Mr. Bey. the second group of Marines arrived to relieve them 18 hours later, at which time the injured 40 received medical attention and were later moved to hospitals. The picture on the cover of the April 'Alumnus,* as well as this newest information, was obtained through the cooperation of Joe's sister, Mar­jorie, after repeated pleas to Joe failed to elicit the slightest bit of actual information about the affair. Elsewhere in this number is the announce­ment of Joe's engagement to Miss Hary Lou Dahm of St. Louis. I have this much news from Joe himself. 
"Someone told us that Danny Dahlll is sta­tioned at the Naval Air base at Corpus Christi, Tex. Can someone confirm this? Ens. John Baty is undergoing additional training at the sub­chaser base at Miami, Fla., while his taw part' ner, Ena. MeVay, is on duty in the South Pa­cific 
"We had a letter in mid-May from Jim Daner, in the Army at the air corps base at Yuma, Ariz. A fine letter arrived this week (May 15) from Capt. Robert Sollivan of the Air Corps in England. Bob is the second captain among the '42 lawyers. The other is John Verdonk. who is with the Army Intelligence and is at this time not in a position to communicate with us, and he so advised us at the time of his assignment. 
Letters also arrived from Enncna BUI Law­less* who was vacationing on Gwidalcanal waitins for his ship, and Jade Lawler doing the same thing in New Caledonia. Bill's new -wife is Uvins; with her mother in Buffalo for the duration. 
••DidE Foffarty is in occasionally and will be a candidate for admission to the In^ana Bar this year. He is employed in South Bend. Hie wed­ding of the year was held in Our Lady's Chia>el on the campus on May 13 when Ena. Williafli Martin was married to Kathleen O'Donnell of Chicago. We are inclined to agree with Bill that any attempt to describe the bride would be use­less- You have to see her to understand bat we can say that Bill must have developed a good argument for she is very lovely. 
"Ens. Joe Farmar's mother attended the Mar­tin wedding and reported that Joe is stationed in ­New York awaiting assignment to his ship. Joe was commissioned at Columbia a month ago, and Bill was commissioned at Abbott ^1 1 just before being married. 
"Barney Grainey wrote from Camp Roberts, Calif., that he was undergoing the rigid train­ing of an infantryman. He was a casualty of ASTP but is attached to the Intelligence Section of his outfit, which is a part of the Headquarters Company. Nick Villarosa was home for a ^ort leave about May 1. He did manage to find time to get a ring on 'that' girl's finger, though, dar­ing his week's leave. He is stationed at Fort Jackson, S. C­
"Lt. Thomas Tcamcy, USNR, paid a visit to the campus a few weeks ago. He has been up in the North Pacific and has added an extra stripe. Another recent visitor was Pvt. Fran Brinkaan* on leave from his job of training recruits for the infantry- Fran was unable to pass the physi­cal exams for overseas duty. John Bacskawiki wrote recently from his station at Louisville. Ky., in the Army hospital there. From time to time he gives us up-to-the-minute reports on recent additions to the hospital laboratory, with appro­priate annotations! 
GABRESKI IS LEADING ACE 
Lt. Col. Francis S. Gabreski, ex. '42, 0!1 City, Pa., a (tadent at Notre Dame from 193S to 1940, stands revealed as a leading American ace and a member of one of the most famed fighter squadrons in the war, the 2emke outfit or Wolf Pack. His pictnre and several references to his ex­ploits were contained in the lead­ing "Saturday Evening Post" fea­ture of June 3, 1944. 
At the latest available count, when the Zemke outfit had run up a record of 347 German planes blasted from the sky, Frank's score of enemy planes stood at 20. There are 26 aces in his outfit; one of them had got 22 German planes; another 21. 
Col. Gabreski is a brother of Major Thaddens. S. Gabreski, '34, on duty with the medical corps in India. 
"Jack Talett was last hcatd from at the Aziar Air Base at Monrae, La. Ji a Claik dashed in to-see US on his way boiiie for a short fwekw^ From bis wife. I leam that Eas. Cecil Jwdaa is land-baaed at present at a Navy'station, in Ana. tralia. Itrs. Jordan is living in Sooth Bend for the duration. Jae loner's mother told me that Joe'has been promoted to lieutenant,' (iff), and that he lias had the good fortune to see his brother. Jack, also down in the Sooth Psofie on active duty. 
"Kae Hsatesaa was over for a visit a month ago. He had been discharged from tiie Army for physical reasons, after spending some time in the hospital .while in training:. He reports having seen Jehm Speca. who' steadfastly re­fuses to reinstate' us on his mailins or visitine list. He promised to drag John over for a visit but so far has failed us. Jim Nca of the Army is attached to Gen. HacArthnr's beadouarters in Australia, according to our. latest postcard. 
"Lt. Alex Ckalia was moved from his station in Italy and is now in England, studying the dvil government of the next country to be occupied by the Allies and instructing others on some of the fine points of procedure of the Allied Mil­itary Government.' A card arrived in mid-Hay announcing the change of address from Eraie Timpani from a training camp in the 0.S.A. to a base in England. 
"WarrcB DeaU is training at an Army base in Florida and was recently joined by his wife Lt. Tim Haher checked in from his Los Angeles AFO. CpL Jim Diver, who for a while showed promise of being conscious of his obligati<ms as a corre^randent, has recently moved and failed to furnish us with a new address. 
"Ens. Gerard Fcency wrote us recently from the west coast. He had just heard the report <^ Psal Kadimcr as missing in action. In that connection, answering our inquiry, we had let­ters recently from Lt. TiMmss Stritdi of Patd's outfit, and from Paul's personnel officer, and neither contained any encouraging infbrmati<Hi. Graham MJcGawaa. who was assigned by the ASTP to Jefferson College in St. Ixnis, was an­other vietipi ot the closing of that program. Be is now at an Army camp. 
''Another soldier reporting in this week (May 1$), xias Pvt. J. B. Gathrie. now stationed in England, awaiting invasion action. A feminine representative froni Xotre Dame went down to New York to see him off. WaKer Ivaacevie has accepted a poeition with the Equity Corporation in New York CSty. Mike Stepavick has been sent by the Navy to the west coast where he is doing legal work in the administrative section of the Navy Department." 
'Well, that takes care of tlungs for another time. And in the meantime. IF IT S NEWS, 'WBITE SCOOP. 
IVom Camp Haan. dlif., CpL Frank Fax wrote on Hay 8: "'Was home on furlough about one month and was constantly with Mike Carr. Hike told me Gcerse UU received a commisdon in the Navy. Hiat's fine. One of the worst bits of news that came my way was that of Jim Hack­
•er and Dm HdTally. Also that of Hatty Bynm and Cy Hiller. Also spent one evening with Didc and Haiy Ewride and the two small additiona to what is a fine family. 
"I hear from Paal Dcery quite often, Ihe last letter I had came from Anzio beadihead. Aboot six weeks ago I wrote to Jim O'Laa^dia but haven't heard from him as yet. Joe Barr eer­tainly deserved all the credit given him. Wsos he's fully recovered. Have received three Jettcrs from my roommate, Jlem Hank. He's In Bn«lsi>d with a bomber command. He has seen Don ]i > Gialey once or twice. 

"While home. I attended a dance at the In­dianapolis Athletic club and saw Jack Rcia. '43. He said he saw Jim Hackner just a few days or 
•weeks before death took Jim. Jack also ran into . De^ry. Bob Conrtner was well on his way to a commisaon last I heard." 
Commissions: Charlie Kirby and Anthony Ri­ndla both won their Navy "Winps of Gold" at Pensacola. Fla. Charlie is a second lieutenant in the Marines: Tony an ensign in the Na\-y-
Promotion: Joe Raf^olia to 5rst lieutenant -with the Ninth AAF Service in England. 
Ensiffn Fred Hoover (due, with Jero' Killi­grew to be a jg on July 1) wrote on May 20 to Mrs. Lora Lashbrook, the dean's secretary in the Law School, from his spot in • the Pacific. From Aviation Supply School in Jacksonville. Fla., fol­lowing Harvard. Fred had been sent to San Diego for duty with a Carrier Aircraft Service unit. Spending six weeks in San Diego, he had seen Bob Rsaf, Lt. (jg) Al Perine. '41. and Lt. (jr) Bill OWer. Jim McVay had just left San Diego with his amphibious squadron. As indi­cated in the '41 news. Ensign Emery Bcrcs, Ml. had been with Hoover at Harvard, Jacksonville and San Diego. 
BUI Bradf is on a ship in the Atlantic. Sgt. Bob Coleman was. when he wrote on March 23. in Italy and still with Ned Weinfurtner and Charlie Gchres. Bob was a leading light in the organization of the Notre Dame Club of Italy, about which you'll read in the club section of this issue. He had been shortly before entertained royally by hU (Jg) John Walsh, *3S. skipper of an LCI. 
Lt. (jg) Leo Lee, sending in his contribution to the Second Alumni Fund, said that he had been on a ship with Bill Madden, his roommate of his senior year, and that he had seen Frank Qatnn and Tom Walker. ^Vhen he wrote on April 
13. Leo was spending a brief holiday with his wife, the former Catherine Moran of St Mary's, to whom he was married on March 15 in Chicago. 
Lt. (jg) Bill Hartman was, when his father wrote on April 4, stationed at the Flamingo Hotel, Miami Beach, Fla., but momentarily ex­pecting a change. Bill was married on April G, 1942, to Anna Lee Keeley, formerly of South Bend. Bill and his wife are the parents of Nancj-Lee. and all three of them are (or were) in Florida. 
Lt. (jg) Roy Marray*s father, in mailing Roy's contribution, said that Roy was in New Guinea. 
What rppears to be certain proof that Cpl. Charlie Bnterworth, South Bend, is alive, al­though a prisoner of the Japs, was received re­cently by his mother in a letter from him in which ^^-as enclosed the negative of an official Japanese government photograph. Developed and printed, the picture shows a shaved head, gaunt expression, sunken eyes and a scsr on the man. but Mrs. Buterworth is convinced that the man is her son. 
Charlie enlisted in the Army Air Corps when he was a student at Notre Dame. Eventually he was sent to the Philippines and was at Clark Field when the Japs captured it. His mother has a recording of a short wa\'e broadcast coming out of Tokyo to the U.S. in which her son greets her. The broadcast was picked up on the V/est Coast, where a listener made a transcription of it and sent it to Mrs- Butterworth. 
 Edward C Roney, 1723 Iro­1943 Ennm 
qnois Ave., Detroit, Mich.; Robert 
Lonergan, TTie Chicago Tribune, Ch:­caco. 

From Red Lonergan: The Irish have always been known for their high quality of blarney — well, how about a little of it, boys? Just drop us a note every once in a while, telling us that rigor mortis hasn't set in, and that you ran into so and so and that he had seen this fellow or that one. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
SPRAGUE IS HONORED 
The Navy announced on May 8 
the award of the Silver Star 
Medal to Ensign John F. Sprague, 
ex. '43, Sunnyside, Wash., who is 
missing in action. John was com­
mended for his gallantry in action 
as a pilot hunting German sub­
marines in the Atlantic 
While he was on a patrol flight in a torpedo bomber, John at­tacked submarines but was forced by anti-aircraft fire to come down at sea. Even then he "fearlessly continued his daring attacks on the German ships in the fac:e of their deadly fire." He failed to re­turn to his base after this exploit. 

I received a newsy letter from Jane Cahill* in­forming us that her brother, Jim. and Lee Ray­mond have been through all the actions on Munda. Guadalcanal, and Bougainville together. They left this country last July. Both were awarded the Infantry Badge. Lee is now attached to Headquarters and Jim is with the personnel division. This letter was a real surprise, and may we say that any relative reading the "Alum­nus" will always be welcomed as a contributor. Just drop a line to either Ed Roney or me and give us that all-important news about your grandson, brother, cousin, or son. 
Another family letter from Wenzel Dvorak of La Crosse, Wis., has this to say about his son Bill: "After graduating Bill took his training at Dartmouth and Princeton along with quite a number of other Notre Dame men, and then went to Little Creek, Va., and subsequently to Fort Pierce, Panama City and New Orleans, from there to New York via the Atlantic Mr. Dvorak tells us that Bob Hackner and Dick Pa­desky are now in the Marines and Army, respec­tively, and are expected to be definitely assigned in May. Enclose in this letter were excerpts from some of Bill's letters. Here is one: 
From his base in England: "We could surely 'throw* a Notre Dame class reunion here and get a big turnout, if we had the time. I keep my eyes on these ships as they roll in and spot the ones I know the boys are on. then drop over to their ship and surprise them. I haven't - found any trouble running across somebody I know. 
**Bob Rhim, Jack Blahoney, Bob Casey and Hugh Ayers are all at this base and we had a glorious get-together with them. Gene Fehlig is in the near vicinity. Also saw Tom Finncane. He's on a PC. and worked uith us recently. One night I went aboard his ship and v:e had a good old-fashioned bull session. J hopa to see Gail Fitch and Lou Kurtz one of these days. They are near here, but I haven't located them yet-" 
We ahvays can be sure of at least a post card from our old standby. Sunny Randolph. This time he has an address which goes something like this: Class 44-F, Columbus, Miss. He cries long and loud for more news from Zeke Woods and a few more addresses of former pals. How about it, boys? He has only 12 months more to go in advanced flying and he will have his wings. 
Another contribntor is Bill MIddendorf, who gives us this information: **Got my April issue of the 'Alumnus' the.other day and I thought I would start contributing too. I am a skipper on a yp, doing Atlantic patrol, but may soon go to SCTO in Miami. I noticed in the 'Alumnus* that J. J* Becker has already been there. It was really swell reading about all the fellows of our class, and just what they are doing. 
"Saw Jack Barry, Red Ryan, Tom Connelly, OUie Banter and Chock Bntler in N.Y.C. There are two Notre Dame men at our base, Fred Hocl­sincer, '41, and Jade Sandrock, '39, both swell fellows. I am now married and the papa of a baby girl." 
Congratulations from all the boys on that new addition to the family. Bill. 
Eddy Ryan is waiting to be called, as he has decided to go into service rather than go on with his medical training, at least for the time being. 
Dare Condon has joined the copy desk of ye Chi. "Trib." He was on the South Bend "Trih." In the first part of the present term he was edi­tor of the "Scholastic" 
Bob Kaipers has just returned from an in­teresting trip to the east coast. Being an air lines executive now he took the entire trip via the air, and on the house. He had short stays in New York City, Philadelphia and Washington. 
^Tin 0*Too]e is in the Pacific He had a short chat with Harry Florence^ who was just return­
•ing from Tarawa. Harry said he saw Dudley K. Smith at Tarawa, where he was master of a tug. Kev and Wally HcNamara are stationed together. 
One of the outstanding basketball teams in the east last winter was the team representing Co­lumbia's Midshipmen's school. It was composed mostly of Francis Cnrran, Orlando Bonecelli, James Bfeagfaer and Bobby Fanght. Bobby now holds the scoring record in the Payne ^Vhitney fieldhouse at Yale. 
From Ed Roney: 
Almost nothing happens down here and I've received exactly zero .letters this time. That's probably due to my missing an issue; the class thinking I wasn't going to be able to continue. From now on for a good long time there'll be something from me every issue. I must repeat, though, that what I write depends upon what you write. 
Jim Girard is now on his way to the states. Understand that the complete lineup of '43 now in England (at least those together), includes Loois Kartz, Fred Gore, Joe Callahan, Gene Feb­lir. Bin Strycker, Jim McElroy, Bob Rthm, Paul Tiemey and Pete Moritz. All of these excepting McElroy and Fehlig became lieutenants (junior grade) on May 1. CongratulaUons are in order. Jim Girard and the others who were at Dart­mouth and Princeton together will have the same thing to report, while those who reported to Chicago Dec 2, 1942. will have theirs in about a month. 
Qolnce "ChoUy" S<arm. the last time he wrote any of my correspondents, was down in New Guinea. I'd give a lot to hear one of his speeches these days. The one he made our last night at Princeton was one for the books. 
Jade Reis has had an exciting and interesting experience but I can't print it until he writes in and gives an O.K I might say. though, that he's no longer on the same ship. 
I only hope Red was more successful this time. 
1st Ll. John A. McNicol, Binghamton, N. Y., has tesn awarded the Air Medal for meritorious achievement while parttcipnting in heavy bom­bardment missions over Eurcpe. A member of the Eighth AAF in England, he is pilot of a Fortress and was commended for his "courage, coolness and skill." John is a nephew of Father James Connerton, C.S.C., registrar of the Uni­versity, and of Jadge Daniel M^Avoy, of Bing­hamton. who v.-as a Notre Dame student in the early '20s. 
Commissions: Francis H. Sosnosldf South Bend, 
a second lieutenant in the AAF; John C. Yavor­sky* an ensign in naval aviation. 
Lt. Carl Coco was somewhere in Italy when his father wrote early in June. Ensign Tom MiUer was on a ship in the South Pacific when his father, Harry Miller, *10, sent a note on May 17. Joe Tracy should by now be through with OCS at Miami Beach» Fla., according to his estimate in March. 
Bill Tracy, of South Bend, who spent two years in the class *43, left his wife and children be­hind in May to join up with the Army via the draft. Bill (Joe's brother) had during the past year done an outstanding job as assistant foot­ball coach for Central Catholic High School. South Bend, helping to produce the finest team to date in CC's histor>*. His full time job was with the South Bend Lathe Works. 
Bill was particularly honored at Central Cath­olic's annual athletic dinner on April 16 at which Bernard J. VoU, '17, was the toastmaster. Other alumni on the program were Rev. Patrick Dolanr C.S.C., Brother Gerard, C.S.C., principal of the schooU Brother Edzar, C-S.C., Brother Johann, C.S.C, Joe Boland and Ed HcKeever. 
1944 and Later 
David R. Condon, care of Afawmi Office. .Notre Dame* Ind. 

Commissions: John G. Smith, ex. '45. Park Ridge, III., second lieutenant, AAF; James P. Bntke, ex. *44, Sioux Falls, S. B., second lieu­tenant, AAF: Francis M. Willett. ex. '46. Whar­ton, N. J.,' ensign, naval aviation; Charles J. Patterson, ex. ^44, Gretna, Nebr.. ensign, naval aviation. 
Korm Haaser and Earl Englert, both *44. are at the AAF Training Command School, Yale University, for training in engineering and will be commissioned second lieutenants upon success­ful completion. 
George Bastyr, Pittsburgh, was graduated from 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
boot training at Graet Lakes, 111., as honor nun of his company and was • sent on for farther training as a storekeeper. 
Jack Dcnniston, then at Camp Van Dorn, Miss., but probably not there now, wrote on Ib y 27 to give some typical Denniston dope, viz.; "Rempe Cronin is down, in the mid-Atlantic on some island as a weather observer (he is re­lated to Father Shea, the one vrho wrote the Victory March). Jack Ford is in the Air Corps at Keesler Field, Miss. Tom Esan is over in Eng­land with a Signal Corps outfit. J. H. Jflhnatoa sent me a (change of address) card nearly a month ago. but haven't heard from him since then. He's still in the paratroops. 
"Ted Weber, in his latest letter from New Caledonia, states that Bob Gonki is stationed a short distance outside Ted's hometown. Ypsilanti, Mich. Ted also says that Gene Slevin has moved off the island to spots unknon-n. Lyle Joyce is still there with him. Father Hewitt of the Notre Dame mission band is on New Caledonia as a chaplain. Ted met him the other evening at the conclusion of a mission they were holding on the island. 
"Bob Kopf is still down at Wheeler, Ga. One of his training partners landed at Van Dorn a month ago. namely. Frank Waldeck. His stay at Van Dorn was short for he left for Texas last week. Jack Decgan is still with the 7SUi divi­sion. Glad to hear that Dave CJondan got pro­moted from the "South Bend Tribune" to the "Chicago Tribune.*' He is working on the sports desk there but manages, I hear, to hit Sonth Bend just about every week on his days off.'* 
Ensign John Whitely, *44, returned to Notre Dame for a visit on April 19 and found time to review the naval V-12 company to which he belonged before he left the University. John was a member of that company for four months, then left for Norfolk. Va., for two additional months, of training. He was later assigned to the mid­shipmen school at Columbia University, where he \vas an honor man and received a gold sword 
Notre Dame Club of Wellesley 
The Notre Dame Clob of WeUesky was the toUUr. precedented or(anixatica pat tacether caiir in the year by the Notre Dame men of the class of '44 who were in traininx at Wellesley CaOtce tar the Navy Supply Corps. This pictnre comprises the clnb members. Left to riiht are. In the frant raw, John Fitzpatrick. Frank Stnmpf, John Hickey and Omer Stnrm. In the rear are John Prince, Ed Sdiadd, Dick Doermer. Tom Brennan. Jack Waiters, Don Davis, Ray Rnetz and BUI Robinson. 
All of the club members, with the exception of Waiters received their decrees in absentia at the Feb. 23 convocation at Notre Dame. To commemorate the day they carried out appropriate eereiianies at Wellesley, Hickey gave* the "valedictory," Brennan was the "president of the University," Stanipf presented the "degrees," Prince was the "principal speaker" and Waiters served as "alamni leecetary." to welcome the (radnates into the Alamni Association. Most of the dab were commissioned as ensicna on April U . 
for leadership. His next stop, after his vUt hem 
was Fort Pierce, Fla. His brother, BUI, ii a <!• 
vilian student at Notre Dane. 
Larry Sdutdeia, who had been at Abbott HaX. Ghicaeo, wrote on April 30 from the Na\ry eoas­monieations school at Harvard. He had seen Dhk HerBhy in Boston; Dick was a serseant fa the Army'and on his way back to Alabama. Others on the Sehatzlein list: Frank GaribaMi and Da n Rsaey, both now eammissioned in the Navy: HH Schracder, on the Pacific ride as a paratrooper, and Jai][ WaeUe. a eorporal who had crossed Oe Atlantic; Jafai HcCahe, ont in Helena, Aik.. and expectinir to set his winss in Jane. 
Capt. Ezra (Red) Sialth is with the AAF in Eneland. Pvt,' Didc Terry, Co. A (FVe-Med). AST3873, University of Oklahona, Nonaaa. Okla., finally landed back in his NJ>. specialty, pre-med, after a year of shifting around the country, and it looks as though he'll be in Nor­man until the first of the year at least Pfcu Fnd* Maacer is a medical student at Katqaette in Mil­waukee. Vinee Dancaa was commissioned an ca­sism at Columbia in N.Y.C. and sent to New Orleans for assisument. 
At the latest reports from the two of them — and they're resnlar correspondents — Ed CaA­maa and Harry Teates were still together in the South Pacific. Leavine New Caledonia for a new spot, they met up on the boat with "-."g-f Cai^ ran, '34, and DeLay, '42. and the gans went over Notre Dame days in detail. Ed u a chap­lain's assistant and even has a portable organ at his disposal, which is really a set-up for hiaa, as he admits-
Major William J. Clasby, chaplain at Santa. Ana Army Air Base, Calif., wrote last Mardi to tell us that three of his best helpers there were Bsb Bameit, ex. '42, Bob SckasMrer and AI Faster. 
CAMP FOR GIRLS 

Alumni having danghters betweoi five and 16 will be interested in Camp Marie-dn-Lac, operated by the Sisters of the Holy Cross at Lakeside, Mich. The camp is in an attractive wooded spot on Lake Michigan, about 25 miles from Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Ses­sions run firom June 25 to July 23 and from July 23 to Aug. 20. Laquiries (nn>' til Aug. 20) may be addressed to Sister Edward Joseph, C.S.C, at the camp. 
SONGS AFTER SUNDOWN 

The ALUMNUS has received a copy of Songs After Sundoion, a book of verse by John F. Sullivan, Jr., '33, Holyoke, Mass. 
John was originally a member of the Class of 1926 having spent two years, here from 1922 to 1924, returning in 1931 to complete his course. The educa­tional interim evidently resulted in a very pleasing Gaelic approach to the poetry in the things around him. For nature, his famQy, his country, he has a rich sentiment, expressed with a com­bination of fluency and light humor that livens up the pages. The book is dedi­cated to his wife. 
Attractively published by the Doyle printing company of Holyoke, ($1.50) the volume makes pleasant reading. JEA 
PaMlcatiOH^ In AfedleiuU Stiidied 
The seventh volume of Publicaliom in Atedicval Studies has recently been published. The work, the first of three parts bearing the same title, is called Senlentiae Petri Piclaviensis. Father Philip Moore, C. S. C, gen­eral editor of the series, and Miss Marihe Dulong, a French medievalist, are its authors.. Peter of Poitiers (Petrus Pictaviensis) was a t^velflh cen­tury theologian whose master, Peter Lombard, was one of the key men in the development of theological science in the Middle Ages. Living in a period of great intellectual ferment, when many problems of theology were being explored, Peter Lombard presented in his 5cnicn/iarum libri IV the problems of the whole field of theology in logical and orderly form and gave his own solution or opinion (scntcntia) on each problem. The clear and orderly presentation of the material immediately made the work tre­mendously popular in the medieval schools of Europe, and it became the standard textbook in theology. 
The medieval professor "commented" on the textbooks in use, v, g. the Bible, and the Lombard's Sentences were no exception to this generally accepted pedagogical method. The professors, as is customary and fitting, did not always agree with the master, and so expressed themselves in their classrooms and in written works, likewise called Sentcntiae. Many of these works still unedited have come down to us in innumerable manuscripts, and of these Peter of Poitier's is one of the first and most important. 
To the Catholic scholar, the queen of the sciences must be theology, the science of God. The history of theological thought must necessarily command his interest and be of great importance in the study of theology itself. It is a commonplace that theology enjoyed its greatest development during the twelfth and thirteenth centuries. And it is to the intellectual life of this period that the Publicaliom in l\4cdieval Studies is primarily devoted. The most important volume of the series to date is this most recent one giving the Latin text of the Senlentiae of Peter of Poitiers. Critical editions of other medieval compendia of theology are in preparation here at Notre Dame and elsewhere and only when these editions have appeared will it be possible for the historian to write the history of theological thought in these great centuries. 
The series of Publications was inaugurated in 1936 during the presi­dency of Father O'Hara. with Father Moore's Life and lVorl(s of Peter of Poitiers. The author here gives the first complete life of this twelfth century theologian, and then a literary history, of his works. This volume was preparatory to the publication of the most important of these works. 
It has been the aim of the Publications to publish one volume annually. This has meant, and was intended to mean, the publication of critical, historical, doctrinal and literary studies in the several branches of medieval learning by professors of other universities. The second volume for example, entitled Commcntarius Cantabrigiensis in cpistolas Pauli e schola Petri Abaelardi is the work of a German scholar. Bishop Artur Landgraf, fomer professor at the Catholic University of America. This volume con-, tains the Latin text of an anonymous twelfth century commentator on the Pauline Epistles. To medievalists it is significant for the author was a follower of the colorful founder of a new method of Biblical exegesis. 
In Petri Piclaviensis allegoriae super tahemaculum il/otjsi Father Moore and Professor James A . Corbett of the History Department col­laborated in editing this allegorical commentary on Chapters 23-31. of Exodus. This is a pioneer work in a field which, in large part, still remains to be explored: the study of the development of the four senses of Scripture so widely used in the Middle Ages, and the limitations on their use. 
Brother Edmund Hunt, C.S.C., professor of classics and of ancient history, prepared volume, four, an edition of the Lucula noctis of Johannes Dominicus. This Italian Dominican of the Renaissance culled the argu­ments used by his contemporaries for the revival and study of the classical pagan authors and then answered them from the viewpoint of the theo­logian. The text is of particular value for an understanding of the intel­lectual conflict inherent in the Renaissance. 
In 1941 appeared Sachsenspiegel arid Bible by Guido Kisch, visiting professor of history at the Jewish Institute of Religion in New York. The Sachsenspiegel (Mirror of Saxon Law) was the earliest-and most import­ant private compilation of customary law in medieval Germany. Written in thirteenth century German before Roman Law was well-known in Germany, it represents a purely German concept of law. Prof. Kisch in this study shows the influence of the Bible and of Jewish thought on the Sachsenspiegel. Members of the alumni particularly interested in law and its development will enjoy this interesting study. 
The volume in the series most likely however to attract the cultivated general reader and lover of the Middle Ages is The Life and Times of Si. BemVard of Hildcshcim by Prof. Francis J. Tschan of Penn State College. This life of St. Bemward is a fascinating study of a saint, a bishop and an artist of the late tenth and early eleventh centuries of imperial Germany. Written with a rare charm of expression, he makes the intensely human and colorful bishop stand out in unusual fashion. 
Such in brief are the works published to date in this unique collection. We say "unique" for, while a number of European and Canadian Cath­olic universities publish series of texts 'and studies in special fields of medieval history, the Publications in' Medieval Studies is the only such collection published in the United States by a Catholic university. During its short life of eight years, the series has already more than justified the work and modest subsidization involved. Each of its volumes has been very favorably reviewed in the outstanding scholarly journals devoted to medieval studies in America and abroad. 
The academic reputation of a University is built up by the faculty it has and the publications it fosters as well as by the achievements of its students in later life. Father O'Hara, recognizing this, worked lo increase the university's academic prestige by developing the graduate school, building up its faculty and encouraging its scholarly publications. With the coming of the war which has caused the enrollment of the graduate school lo decline and deprived the University of a number of younger professors, the administration of Father O'Donncll has placed added* emphasis on scholarly research work and publications of a learned character. 
A scries like the Publications with volumes of such a specialized character must needs seek its justification in the academic prestige it brings to the University rather than in financial profits. Yet with each new volume the series has gained new friends among scholars and libraries, friends who soon wish lo have the complete set. With each new volume the Publications joins the RevieiD of Politics, The American Kfidland Naturalist, and Reports -of. a Mathematical Colloquium in gaining greater recognition in academic circles in America and abroad for Notre Dame. —James A. Corbett. 





