The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 


.. 
"" 

Opinio11 
On CIA-and .Dow 
.TuE recent rule-breaking CIA-DOW they are seeking they will be a ·part demonstration has been a source of of the community. They will be free discomfort to alumni, administrators, ·to go, if what they find is inconsistent faculty and students. This· irrespon-with. what they are· seeking. sible act of interference with . the For an institution to function it I 

Give IJs· 
justifiable rights of others is i~con-must havo order. Mimbers of any ' siste:rit with the definition of a uni-._society 'must obser\re some primary You•• Vote versity, and particularly repulsive to rules which· are nothing more than the nature of . a great university. the practice of basic good man~e'rs. 
n·ECENT political events in hair-rais~·Notre Dame does rightfully lay claim It is senseless for the Notre Dame ing down-to-the-wire fashion revivedto the designation, "great uhiversity." community not to enforce the few the old-fashioned specter of represen­, It may be ironic that this act of simple rules of good manners which tation without consensus. Whether orinterference with :the rightful free-· exist.. Rtiles should be enforced or, if not the mandate is .the catalyst to ef­doin of -others may ,in fact b~ the they are meaningless, repealed. 
fective political action has been de­catalyst that polarizes the "Commu-.If we hold anything sacred at a bated. But there is little d~ubt that itnity of Notre Dame." university it would seem to be truth. 
provides a much more comfortableAll segments of Notre Dame have Why, then, in the name of freedom posture from which to create and· longed for Father Hesburgh's ideal does a community permit interference · launch. ·effeCtive programs. ·Fromthat the community may . one day with rights of others? Why in the within the framework of the Alumni·coalesce into a unique body . that name of freedom do we tolerate in­Association the same. principles arestands for the best in man through decency? Why in the n~me of freedom germaine. The Association Board of· God -a dream, incidentally, be-must property b~ destroyed? · Directors, th~ policy making,· the pro-.
fitting the author. The Student Life . Those who have the ·authority to gram creating head of the family· Coun~i~, the Faculty Senate, .and t~e ·maintain an' atmosphere of "good needs your endorsement. In this age of · Alumm ·Body' have all been -asked to ma~ners" on 'the campus do not act · gaps. a:t:td backlashes, imd the PO\.ver:
express:.themselves on this issue. It· unilaterally when they ·enforce the contacts, alumni voice. in Universitywould seem in the best tradition ·of rules of the University. They act to affairs becomes a crucial . balan'cing . Notre Dame for these groups to limit . protect .the coniinon good of all. If factor. Alumni have-always played.
. their expression to this isol~ted act, they fail to act they deny. the rights signifi~ant, roles in the internal life of .
and to aspire to a resolv_e of. what of the community majority. A rector the University-as trustees, executivelife at Notre Dame is 'to be. · or others who "turn· their backs" or officers, key administrative personnel,If it is to be a !'Catholi.c universi-"shut their doors". can't avoid ·their and members of the faculty. Thisty" .it ·must .be academic, it must be · responsibilities. R~sponsibility ought · kind of participating is probably one. religious, it inust be responsive and . to be taught ata university. 
.of the most important factors under-relevant, it must be open and it must · 
Tho University will not get on 
. lying·the traditions and consistencies.· _be orderly. What itis idealistically' is · 
with. its maturity through demonstra­
of the pl~ce today. Externally, the 1· easjly described, .·generally. What it 
tion and· complaint. It will· mature 
Alumni sector has chalkedup a recordwill be actually, requirCli. painstaking 
through ·the leadership, .interaction, 
of stipport, action a~d promoti~n u~­evaluation, cooperation, and action·. 
a!J.d' integi·ity of its membership body. 
matched at any other university. So,
from the varied ~embers of the com­
Community. must preyail over fac-. there ·is. remarkable precedent backing 
munity; (Each group must, howev'er, tiona! power. The CIA-DOW demon-· the· concept that alum~i are a vital· 
. reco~ize the limited scope of its stration strongly suggests that· the ~ force in the 'life of this institution.
competence.) . · 
.co~~unity .must . now stimd. up and
·Perhaps, what Notre Da~e will be niay not necessarily be satisfactory ackno\~ledge what it stands for. 'FATilER.Hesburgh has i·ecently issued 
to alL Individuals can come and·· if ~RiChard A. Ra$enthal '54 a call for support by members of the Notl:e D~me is-consistent with what Alumni. AS$ociation Pre$ident "-communitY" in connection: with the : 
,; 
'·., . 1 
~ '. ' 
Dow-CIA dispute. Whether or not Alumni are full-fledged or associate members of that "community" is per­haps a matter of semantics. We may not reside directly within the "com­munity," but at least we're in the suburbs. And the suburbs today are being called on more and more to pro­vide some resolution to the inner-city crisis. A bad analogy, perhaps, but in­dicative I think, of a new oneness of alimini today. The Board of Directors of the Alumni Association is the prop­er and historically effective vehicle for emerging Alumni voice and involve­ment. The new slate of nominees cur­rently circulated is an outstanding one and indicates great potential for the future. A strong membership vote for these candidates can fuel the alumni thrust and propel the board into an even mox-e relevant role in the life of the University. Give the board your mandate. 
—James D. Cooney '59 Alumni Secretory 


Watchers and Writers 

^T^HAT do Ted Fiske, Bob Hoyt, Jack Deedy, Ken Woodward, the Eev. Daniel Lyons, S.J., and Dan Herr have in common? 
It isn't Catholicism, because Fiske is a Presbyterian minister and it isn't Alma Mater, because only Woodward has a Notre Dame degree. 
The six are journalists and their publications, respectively but not 
necessarily from the Left, are The 
New York Times, the NatitnuU Cath­
olic Reporter, Commonweal, News­
week. Twin Circle, and The Critic. 
All cover religion, and more to the 
point of this column, they are what 
we might call "Notre Dame Watch­
ers." 

They watch Notre Dame for two main reasons: 1) the University as an institution is a pace-setter in Catholic higher education, and 2) the people who teach here make news. 
Fiske, a religion writer for the Times, is interested in Notre Dame because it represents the post-Vatican 11 Church coming to giips with ag­giomamento on an academic level. He reads (we hope) the University's na­tional news releases concerning reli­gion on campus, and he relies on "stringers" (persons who report on request and are paid on the basis of what is printed) both on the campus and on the staff of South Bend's daily newspaper. 
Fiske shares a student stringer with the National Catholic Reporter (NCR). NCR's publisher, managing editor, and news editor all have Notre Dame ties, but their fascination with the campus is hardly nostalgic.. Notre Dame provides NCR with a regular quota of what is generally called "conflict-news." The life of the Church in NCR's pages rather re­sembles a guerilla war situational map and virtually every week the reader finds a colored pin stuck in Notre Dame, Ind. 
Jack Deedy, who is a graduate of what he calls "wall-to-wall Irish" Holy Cross, likes to chide Notre Dame for what he considers to be its covert conservatism, but he is more frequently concerned (and rightly so) with larger issues such as x>eace. 
poverty, and race in his Commonweal 
column. 

^^OODWARD is a 1957 alumnus who 
edits Newsweek's religion section. He 
watches Notre Dame for much the 
same reasons as Fiske and Hoyt, but 
knows the campus better. 

It is doubtful whether Dans Herr and Lyons would ever be found shar­ing the same pew. Herr is a liberal while Father Lyons likes the side of the street they drive on in America. Herr edits one of the best Catholic magazines going, the bi-monthly Critic, and a newsletter on ti-ends in the Church called Overview. Father Lyons is editor of Tivin Circle, the conservative's NCR. He watches closely over Notre Dame's orthodoxy, reporting faithfully incidents which he interprets as aberrant behavior, many of them gleaned from the stu­dent press. 
To the surprise of many, Herr and Father Lyons recently passed along the same tip: Notre Dame is likely to be taken over by the Students For a Democratic Society (SDS). No person close to the campus would deny that Notre Dame has some of the same problems which afflict other major universities and is searching, as are all the others, for workable solutions. At the same time, few would agree with the dire prediction of Herr and Father Lyons. 
Part of the problem stems from the fact that, while observers of the best in private secular education have same past experience of restlessness which serves to qualify their reaction to the latest campus flap, followers of Catholic higher education's leading edge are somewhat nervous and apt to overreact at the slightest sign of tension. To Father Lyons and Dan Herr I offer a "Reader's AU-Purpose Step-Down Transfoi-mer." This mar­velous device, new on the market, enables a pei-son to take the high-tension story, put it into psycho-electric context, and actually ran a very reflective toaster from ordinary wall-socket current. Set the toaster dial between "medium" and "well­done." 
—Richard W. Contlm '59 
Asst. Oir. of Public (nformotion 

Methods for Revotution 

**]^ow man exploits man. After the revolution, it will be just the oppo­site." This is a favorite saying of my friend, Michael Hollerich, a senior theology major, who used to write these words on lockers in Sorin last year, and who occasionally can be found penning the same on the graf­fiti-strewn walls around campus.'"It sums up fairly well how many stu­dents feel about life these days. 
The "revolution" which is referred to in the quotation is not real. It is not like the one America experienced in 1776 or France in 1789. This one is imaginary. It's the one that's going to happen tomorrow, next week, or next year. It's the revolution that's going on right now all around us. 
But Revolution with a capital "R" means, in common SDS usage, vio­lence and upheaval and destruction. What will be destroyed is not always clear. Most times, the hard-line SDSer will tell you the victim is the "estab­
lishment." That could mean anyone 
from LBJ to Ara. It is usually quite 
safe to assume that what he really 
means by "establishment" is reality. 
The SDS is out to destroy reality as 
it is lived, learned and taught in the 
world today. 
The Revolution is a myth. But that 
doesn't get in the way of the modem 
radical. Everything is a myth — and 
as Dr. Seymour L. Gross would tell 
you in his American Literature 
course: "don't take myths lightly; 
we've lived them for over 200 years." 
A myth is whatever a certain t>eople 
at a certain time and place believe to 
be truth — usually what they dream 
about and need. It matters little 
whether it is objectively real or not. 
If the myth is vital to one's needs, he 
will live by it as though it is real. 
The mythical violent Revolution is real to a lot of people. Many actually believe that isolated upheavals like Tom Hayden in Chicago at the con­vention and Eldridge Cleaver with the Panthei*s in California will be com­mon occurrences and widespread prac­tices soon. They believe that the only ^yay to fight the military-industrial establishment is by guerrilla violence. These people will be the Che Guevaras of the 70's, and who is to say that their myth is not real? — especially in 1968 which saw American violence slay Robert Kennedy and Martin Luther King? 
The more common-sense, rational radical will tell you that yonll be collecting cobwebs if you wait for the violent Revolution. It simply is not going to happen in America. Fur­thermore, it is highly debatable whether or not it should happen. There already is a revolution g^ing on in America. It is happening in the political arena, in industry, in 
education . . . and in the minds and hearts of many Americans. This revo­lution is not based on violence al­though America often reacts against it with her heritage of violence. This revolution is based upon an idea which is also found in American heri­tage — the Declaration of Indepen­dence which simply demands "liberty and justice for all." 
One would be a dreamer if he thought that the violence plaguing America would stop tomorrow. We will continue to be intimidated by this cultural disease until so many of the historical sins of our nation are purged from the American conscience. We will be intimidated in our own souls — but not stopped. 
The university is the key to the peaceful revolution for most modem students. The revolution which is hoped and worked for is more like an evolution toward the stated ideals of our country — ideals that became perverted through time. The con­temporary student defines his very nature in "radical" terms because he is committed to a radical search for a way to alleviate the injustice and sorrow he sees around him. 
T o a large extent, this is what is happening within the student body at Notre Dame today. There are irra­tional people who believe that vio­lence is the only way to end violence. There are apathetic people who sim­ply dont give a damn what happens. There are many who believe that 
Notre Dame is in the mainstream of the revolution — a revolution that will be a constant and continuous process as long as students of all ages continue to search for truth and beauty. 
—Mik» McCouft/ '69 Staior Aitt and Utttn Mafor 
(Continued from Par/e 5) 

a number of his popular hits as did 
Miller and the two combined in an 

entei-aining duet in one segment of the 
performance. 
Thursday the show kept rolling in 

magnificent style with the 49th An­
nual Football Testimonial dinner 
honoring the 19G8 ND football team. 
Sponsored by the St. Joseph Valley 
ND Club, the dinner was held in the 
main arena of the new center and a 
crowd of more than 1400, the largest 
ever, attended. Fr. Joyce praised the 
team as a group of fine student ath­
letes; Ara Parseghian reviewed the 
'G8 campaign, and NBC commentator 
Joe Gai-agiola entertained the audi­
ence with comments on everything 
from ]jis baseball days to the ND 
spirit. 
Comedian-turned-spy Bill Cosby managed to put the capacity Friday night crowd in stitches with his off­the-cuff routines ofi wives, new cars and childhood. Establishing an easy rapport with the audience from the outset, Cosby warned of the impend­ing clash -nith the "jolly brown giant" the following evening. 
An all-day medley of sports was on tap Saturday featuring ice skating demonstrations by Jliss Lynn Hag­lund, Miss Indiana of 10G7. All sports facilities were in use domonstrating the wide variety of activities that can take place in the new center. It was another opportunity for area resi­dents to tour the ACC. 
The culmination of the week-long entertainment came Saturday evening with the nationally televised invasion of the UCLA basketball Bruins and Lew Alcindor. Big Lew and company I)i-oved Cosby a prophet as they handled the inexperienced Irish team 88-75 in the arena's first game. ND attempted to make a real battle of it until falling behind late in the first half. The surging Bruins, looking sharper as the game wore on, steadily pulled away in the second stanza leading at one point by 18 tallies. Irish hoop fans were served notice, however, that thei-e will be a lot to cheer about this season. 
A Sunday Pontifical Mass concele­brated by the IMost Rev. Leo A. Pursley, bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend, and 24 other priests represent­ing the diocese and ND community marked the actual dedication cere­mony of the new center. A crowd of about GOOD attended the affair which opened on an ecumenical note with blessings invoked by a Protestant minister, a Jewish rabbi and the bishop. 

Fr. Hesburgh, in his welcoming address, said, "We are grateful to all Catholics and non-Catholics who join together with us on this feast of the Immaculate Conception to dedicate this li\-ing shrine to Our Lady who quietly lives in this place. It is our hope that this university and the com­munity w^hich surrounds it pray and live together with fei-vant love for one another be they rich or poor. 
black or white, or be they Poles, Hungarians, Irish or Americans." He added that "This solemn ceremony is a fitting close to a week-long pro­gram that included musical, cultural and sports events which brought people from all w^alks of life together in this historic institution which is named after the Mother of God." 
Eepresenting many months of re­search and a unique new architectural design, the twin-domed center is rec­ognized as one of the finest facilities of its type in the world. It houses 10 Vi acres under roof and incorpoi'­ates many of the newest innovations in equipment and concept. Its greatest asset is its flexibility. It is capable of handling any student activity and at the same time is adaptable to circuses, trade shows, cultural con­vocations and the like. 
The $8.6 million stnicture will in­corporate facilities for baseball, track, golf and tennis in addition to its reg­ulation hockey rink and the main arena. Also included will be handball and squash coui-ts, seven auxiliai-y gymnasiums, spacious and modern ti-aining room and locker facilities and athletic and administi'ation offices. Numerous concession areas are con­veniently located throughout the center as well as a centi-al kitchen area from which banquets can be catered. A luxuriously - appointed Monogram Lounge has also been in­cluded in the building. 
The overall outside dimensions of the building are 030 feet deep x 750 feet wide—which is longer and wider than the football stadium. Each of the twin domes measures 308 feet in diameter with a 40 foot I'ise at the center of each dome above the bear­ings. The distance from the arena floor to the dome peak is over 75 feet and the center's total usable floor area measures 464,000 sq. ft., with a total volume of more than 12 million cu. ft. 
The main arena, or South Dome, can seat 11,500 for basketball and more than 12,000 for stage produc­tions and convocations. The arena's companion or field house dome is largely devoted to track and field and ice skating. It includes a 10-lap track seven lanes wide with an eight lane, 60 yard straightaway. 
The varsity hockey rink is adjacent to the ti-ack and field area and is designed for student as well as public skating. It has pemianent seating for 1200 with mobile seating for another 3200. 
The upper level of the centi-al core area separating the domes features a 15,000 sq. ft. exposition floor to be used for conventions, exhibits and many of the larger student functions. The lower level contains the main auxiliai-y gym to be used for varsity basketball practice and as a student reci'eation ai-ea. 
Provisions have also been made for the future addition of an olympic-size swimming pool. 


Protest 

STUDENT protests at Notre Dame are involving more students, occurring more often and raising more issues than ever before. They are not patient protests. For the most part, they ai'e demands for change in the status quo on Campus and beyond in areas of war and peace, i-acial equal­ity and student power. 
An internal Campus issue — the ways and means of student protests —^was raised during a recent three-day vigil in the second-floor rotunda of the Administration Building, a demonstration sanctioned by the Uni­versity. More than 100 Notre Dame and St. jMary's students kept vigil November 18, 19 and 20 in objection to the policies of the Dow Chemical Co. and the Centi-al Intelligence -Agency, both recruiting graduating 
of CIA interviews brings claim of "tyranny" from Father Hesburgh and a protest from student rightist group. 
Tempo Quickens^ So Does Reaction 
seniors in the Notre Dame Placement 
Bureau. 
The dissidents—^many of whom de­scribed their protest as fundamentally a religious one—said they objected to Dow's production of the flesh-burning napalm used in Vietnam, and to "secret police activities" of the CIA— particularly in Central America. 
A Mass for the intentions of the demonstrators was celebrated Monday and Tuesday nights at the protest scene. After JNIass, the students stretched out on the floor or curled up in doorways to sleep. 
After two days without incident, an authoi"ity clash developed between University officials and demonstrators. About 30 student protesters who dis­associated themselves from the "official demonstration" lay do\vn in front of the office to be used by the CIA representatives. 
Dean of Students Eev. James L. Eiehle CSC told the CIA representa­tive he would move the students "by whatever means necessai-y." He warned the protesters they could bo suspended from school and sub­sequently subjected to arrest by civil police if they did not disperse. His warnings, however, met with littio success. But, before the University took any further action, the i-ecruiter was instructed by his superiors to leave the Campus. 
Administration reaction to the climax of the situation came several days later when Father Hesburgh branded the incident as "clearly tyr­anny." In a letter circulated campus-wide, the Notre Dame president said the students who blocked the CIA in­teiTiews "used their freedom of action to obstruct the freedom of others and to impose their own personal con­victions on others." 
He asked all segments of the Uni­versity "to declai'e" their positions regaitling future demonstrations. "I could have acted unilaterally," Father Hesburgh indicated, "however, much prefer to appeal to you for this is your community and your Univer­sity and it cannot be what it should without your suppoi-t." " ! Reaction to his plea first came from the newly formed Student Life Council (SLC). A ti-ipai-tite group of faculty, administration and stu­dents, the Council issued a statement maintaining that "dissent must be expressed in a manner that does not 
(Continued on Page 11} 

Cultural Events Highlight 
more Literary Festival are entirely the responsibility of the student fes­tival council. Metzger says that eveiy available means of money-making is being employed, including patron cards, film series, co-sponsorships, and student government-administra­tion allotments. 
One month after the Literary Fes­tival, ND will be the scene of the Con­temporary Arts Festival. Chairman Pat Dowdall, a junior from Montana, says, "The objective of the Arts Fes­tival is to present a program of per­forming arts which is representative of recent trends in the various arts, while attempting to maintain a bal­ance between the avante-garde and more traditional art fonns." 
HIGHLIGHTING the Contemporary Ai-ts Festival will be the February appearance of the Chicago Symphony in the new Athletic and Convocation Center. The renowned sjanphony, con­ducted by Irwin Hoffman, has not appeared in the South Bend ai'ea for over twenty years. The following will highlight the exciting April '69, program: the New York production of Jean Genet's play. The Blacks; a 
Guests of the Sophomore Literary and Contemporary Arts Festivals include authors 
Father Dunne elucidates. 


To Teach 

A LL teaching, I believe, should be a communication of insight." Students communication of insight." Students in his crowded classes approve this theory of Eev. John S. Dunne CSC. And recently the Danforth Founda­tion seconded that approval. 
Father Dunne, a specialist in dog­matic theology who has taught 11 years at Notre Dame, was one of 10 recipients of the Foundation's E. Harris Harbison Award for Distin­guished Teaching, given annually since 1963 to "teacher-scholars who excel in the art of teaching, in the significance of their scholarly contri­bution, and in their concern for stu­dents as individuals." 
"If one takes any of the great reli­gions to be a doctrine," Father Dunne said, "I think one immediately falsi­fies it. If one takes the religion to be the teaching of the prophet or of the saviour rather than the experience of revelation or enlightenment which the teaching was meant to convey, then the religion comes to consist of confonnity to that doctrine in think­ing and living. Then instead of en­riching man it tends to impoverish him by restricting his thinking and living to certain prescribed patterns." 
At the university level, the student should be libei-ated from a dependency on teaching by being led to see that "doctrine does not stand for itself but for Insight and awareness," accord­ing to Father Dunne. "When a person is oriented towards insight rather than doctrine, then he is in a position to appropriate personally the spir­itual heritage of mankind. He is lib­erated from a dependency on teach­ing, but his libei-ation has come through teaching itself." 
Two important student - organized cultural events will take place at Notre Dame this spring when the second annual Sophomore Literary Festival begins on JIarch 24, followed by the third annual Contemporary Ai-ts Festival which runs from April 17-27. 

Jim Jletzger, a sophomore who has taken over command of the festival, has planned a program to rival the '68 festival which received kudos in The Saturday Reviezu. The guest list, still incomplete, already includes Harold Hayes, editor-in-chief of Esquire magazine; John Knowles, author of A Sepai-ate Peace and Indian Summer; John Barth, who 
•\vi-ote Lost in the Funhoiise and End of the Road; Sidney Carroll, script­writer for the motion picture. The Hustler; Jessamyn West, woman au­thor of The Friendly Persuasion and Love L<s Not What You Think; Peter De Vries, who wrote Vale of Laugh­ter and Let Me Count the Ways; and George Plimpton, popular author of Paper Lion and Out of My League. 
Finances for the §20,000 Sopho­


Spring Tertn 
chamber concert by the Creative As­sociates of the University of Buffalo, directed by px-ominent composer and conductor, Lukas Foss; a modem-dance progi-am by the Don Redlich Company, which combines dance with films and mixed media; poetry read­ing by James Dickey, foimerly Poetiy Consultant to the Libi-aiy of Con­gress, Paul Carroll and Michael Yates; a piano concert by Emma Kountz of the New York Philhai-­monic; an art exhibit which will be a cross section of various trends in the visual arts; a concert of 20th­centui-y songs by Rev. Patrick Ma­loney; and an Eastern European film series. In addition, student drama and poetiy will be presented. 
Stress will be placed on student participation in the Festival. To ac­complish this, lectures, seminars, and workshops will accompany all the pei-foi-mances. Dowdall says, "These discussions will provide a means for the students to directly confront the various artists and to place artists in perspective of the contemporaiy trends of artistic expression." 
Plimpton and Barth and the Chicago Symphony. 
insist Darst, Chuong and Hoyden. 

^^Aa I See It.,.'' 
SPELLING out current controversy in 
everything from the draft and the 
war to abortion and religious dissent, 
speakers in the Student Academic 
Commission's invitational series con­
tinue to bring diversity of philoso­
phies and outlooks to the Notre Dame 
Campus. 
Tran Van Chuong, foi-mer Viet­namese ambassador to the United States, told 200 persons in the Library Auditorium that present negotiations in Paris "cannot lead to real peace but to some sort of surrender." He described the Viet Cong as "interna­tional Communists, not bourgeois nationalists." 
He urged escalation of the war and bombing of the port of Haiphong: "One hundred mines in the port or 100 bombs in the docks of Haiphong would paralyze the enemy more than 10,000 anywhere else." 
Tom Hayden, a founder of Stu­dents for a Democratic Society (SDS), took a different approach to the war. Criticizing the work of ND graduate Tom Dooley, Hayden said, "He created a popular feeling about intei'V'ention in Vietnam using the philosophy of charity, which made it possible to make an alliance with the Diem regime—which was a hated dic­tatorship." 
Hayden condemned the war and the national attitude he said made it pos­sible: "The people of this country are the most comfortable aggressors ever. The violence which this country does is a violence which does not leave too much blood on our hands." 
Another speaker in Hayden's comer regarding the war was Brother David Darst, a Christian Brother convicted with the other members of The Catonsville Nine for burning di-aft records with napalm. 
He said their act was intended not 
as an act of revolution, but as a 
means of speaking oat against unjust 
practices. Brother Daist said the 
burning of the draft files was justified 
by the theory that civil disobedience 
could use the material goods of man­
kind as a form of protest, but that 
all protest should stop short of blood­
letting. 
An abortion conference conducted 
in late November investigated the 
legal, moi-al, medical and economic 
aspects of the practice. Most of the 
participants favored libei-alized abor­
tion laws, but Prof. Thomas Shaffer 
of the ND Law School opposed abor­
tion, describing it as a "moral 
evasion." 
JssuES Day Oct. 25 provided stu­dents with the opportunity to raise and discuss issues with Father Hes-burgh. Rep. John Brademas, Dem­ocrat from Indiana's third district. Senior Sen. Vance Hartke, Indiana Democrat, Jesse Turner, an Afro-American leader from Northwestern University and representatives of Humphrey, Nixon and Wallace. 
Francois Mitteri-and, former French cabinet minister and leader of the opposition to President Charles De Gaulle in France's National Assem­bly, spoke through an interpreter at St. Mary's in October. 
Ralph Nader, crusading writer for safety on wheels, told a Library au­ditorium audience: "For the age group in this audience, the leading cause of death by far is the auto­mobile." 
One of the less controversial—and decidedly more popular—^visitors to the campus was Playboy Bunny Gail Olsen. A properly chaperoned week­end with the beauty was won in a raffle by sophomore Herman Fala. 
Irish football fans bid farewell to Terry Hanratly and look to the future with young quarterback Joe Theismann (7), Captain Bob Olson Departing with Hanratly will be Seymour, Dushney, Kunz and Gladieux. 

So-long Terry 
^ OTRE DAME'S football Fighting Irish once again brought solace to Irish hearts all across the land and delivered a fitting prelude to basket­ball's year of resurgence in the shadow of the Golden Dome, com­piling a winning record and gaining national recognition for the fifth season in succession. 
Riding on the sti'engrth of a re­lentless offense led by Hanratty, Seymour, Kunz, Gladieux and com­pany ND rolled through a campaign that saw them stutter twice and duel to a sizzling standoff in the season finale en route to a 7-2-1 record and 7th and 8th-place rank­ings in the wire-service polls. Twenty-eight team and individual records fell and the Irish averaged more than 500 yards and 35 points per contest. 
As head coach Ara Parseghian, now 40-7-3, had indicated in early September, it was purely a question of defense. "We knew we could move the ball and score with consistency but our young defense was the ques­tion mark." The sophomore-studded unit that yielded 58 points and more than 700 yards in its first two tests eventually congealed and finished the season as the nation's fourth-ranked team against the rush, a tribute to defensive coaches, Ray, Yonto and Shoults. 
ND's pi-olific offense initiated the season with a 45-21 pasting of the visiting Sooners from Oklahoma and went on to score enough points to win in every contest, but failure to capitalize on breaks offensively and periodic defensive shakiness led to de­feats at the hands of Big Ten foes Purdue and Michigan State. Iowa, Noi-thwestem, Illinois, Navy, Pitts­burgh and Georgia Tech proved no camparable match for Ara's Army. 
The anticipation which began swelling at the conclusion of last 
 • • • Hello Joe! 
season's loss to the "West Coast-based 0. J. Company climaxed in a superior team effort in the season-ending 21-21 deadlock with Southern California. 

If 19G8 was considered the year of the offense at ND, 19G9 could veiy well become the year of the defense. Linebacker and captain Bob "Bobo" Olson will return along with the entire defensive unit, with the exception of Chuck Lauck, Bob Kuchenberg and Eric Norri. The ti-easure of experience gained this season along with a promising group of freshmen should provide John Ray with the material to build an­other "stone wall" unit 
MT will be tough for Ara to replace the likes of co-captain George Kunz, fellow All-Americans Hanratty and Seymour, and McKinley, Winegard­ner, Gladieux and Dushney, but young Joe Theismann has his foot 
-.-,,.-,^^.»..»j-,:,rv-»»j-rj-j^^f.aiiijajr«;»jgai.TCTa»!B-M«vi:r^^ 
;j (above) and behemoth Mike McCoy (77). 
in the door and with help from Denny Allen, Ed Zigler and Jeff Zimmerman and some talented year­lings the ND scoreboard should light up often next year. 
Culminating the season was the occasion of the 49th Annual Foot­ball Testimonial sponsored by the St. Joseph Valley Notre Dame Club. 3Iore than 1,500 men gathered in the main arena of the new Athletic and Convocation Center to hear toastmaster Joe Garagiola, of the NBC Today Show, pay tribute to the '68 team and expound on his comical and colorful philosophy of athletics. Terry Hanratty and Bob Kuchenberg were presented with Most Valuable Player awards on offense and defense, respectively. 
It can be said that the proverbial handwriting is on the wall and it's a good bet that ND football fans will enjoy the unfolding of its im­plications next season. 
("Protest" Continued from Page 7) 
abridge the freedom of members or visitors to carry out their authorized activities on campus." The SLC also said that such actions as heckling or door blocking should be con­sidei-ed liable for disciplinary action by the University. 
The student senate, consisting of student representatives from each doimitoi-y on Campus, passed a bill demanding that i-epresentatives of companies recraiting on Campus be required to "appear in public to answer pertinent questions if it is desired by a petition of 100 stu­dents." Other statements from the Faculty Senate and the University's Academic Council were expected later in December. 
Another voice in protest at Noti-e Dame has been a group of black students. Seeking support from the University for such demands as larger black eni-oUment and more black professors, the Notre Dame Chapter of the Afro-American So­ciety demonstrated several times on Campus and threatened to dismpt the December 7 basketball opener with UCLA unless their demands were met. 
In a meeting December 5 with a special faculty committee appointed by Father Hesburgh, sufficient pre­liminary agreement was reached to call off the demonstration and begin work on the problems outlined by the Afro-Americans. The committee promised the black students it would be more than just a "buffer" group and would work with them for tangible I'esults. 
Objections of black students were also raised duinng a Conference on Institutional Racism sponsored at Notre Dame by the National Stu­dent Association during the Thanks­giving vacation. 
Father Hesburgh spoke at the opening session of the conference and was heckled by many students who criticized the small black enroll­ment and other factors they re­garded as "racist" at Notre Dame. Father Hesburgh adjourned his talk to a smaller room where he and many of the students took part in a long discussion. 
Still another form of protest— from the light side of the fence— came from the Young Americans for Freedom who picketed the Campus speaking appearance of SDS leader Tom Hayden and appeared in op­position to the three-day Admin­istration Building vigil. 
Student power-oriented protest movements are likely to remain on Campus so long as their leaders feel the situation remains status quo. Future protest at Notre Dame, how­evei% hinges on the administration's impending decision i-egarding dem­onstration guidelines and on student reaction to them. Both will be put to the test when the Dow recmiter returns to Campus in January. 
Kossf ^ RC'ClCCtCd 
Student Body Pi-esident Richard Rossie achieved an overwhelming victoiy in the first student presiden­tial recall election in the history of the University. Rossie received 2648 votes, 74.1 per cent of the total, swamping three opponents. Rossie stated that he would have seriously considered resigning if he had not received 50 per cent of the vote. 
Alumni Tax Benefit 
An alei-t to the Alumni: Potential donors to tax-exempt institutions are reminded that gifts this year will cost less than they did in 1967 and possibly less than they will in 1969. Two reasons make the differ­ence, the income-tax surcharge and the fact that the higher a donor's tax bracket, the lower his after-tax cost of charitable gifts. A taxpayer in the 50 per cent bracket who do­nates 510.000 this year will have an after-tax cost of $4,625 compared \\ith $5,000 last year. A $10 contri­bution by a donor with taxable in­come of $20,000 will mean an after­tax cost of $5.16 rather than last year's $5.50. 
SLC Progress 
A new tripartite body, the Student Life Council, consisting of one-third representation of administi-ation, faculty, and student is already in action. A proposal was passed re­iterating the University's policy of free, peaceful demonstrations. It emphasized the "right to free listen­ing" and condemned persistent heck­ling, physical obstniction, or any action calculated to prohibit free speech. A Council resolution permits cars to Seniors and looks forward to action on issue of hall autonomy, food services, Afro-American admis­sions and off-campus housing. 


JoTce. Shnster Awards 
Two Notre Dame officials have re­cently been given national recogni­tion. Father Joyce received the highest Air Force award given to nonmilitai-y pei'sonnel for the out­standing support he has given to sevei-al Air Force pi-ojects both on and off the Campus. For his half­centuiy's conti-ibution to Catholic letters Dr. George N. Shuster re­ceived the America magazine's 14th annual Campion Award. 

i^D Ladies 
Mrs. O. C. Cai-michael has been named to succeed her mother Mi"s. 
E. M. Moi"ris as chairman of the Women's Advisoi-y Council at Notre Dame. Mi-s. Morris has agreed to continue as honorary chairman of the Council which she first led at its beginning in 1952. Mrs. Morris is one of the few women to have re­ceived an honorary ND doctorate. 
n 

James E. Amstrong receives award for outstanding service to his alma mater, 


^^Mr. Atumnus^^Honored 
TH E Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion celebrated its 100th anniversary during the recent dedication of the new Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter. The centennial dinner was held Friday of Performance Maximus week in the Monogx'am Lounge of the new center and guests included Frs. Hesburgh and Joyce, Alumni Association officers and members of the Alumni Board of Directors. 
The highlight of the occasion was the presentation of the Association's highest accolade, the Edward F. Sorin Award, to former Alumni sec­retaiy James E. Ai-mstrong. "Mr. Alumnus," as he has come to be known in ND circles around the world, was presented with a plaque honoring him as a man with "an unmatchable blend of ability, good humor, shrewdness and love of his alma mater. The ti-ibute read, "He survived the scrutiny of six presi­dents, the ups and downs of 41 foot­ball seasons and the inevitable mu­tation of Notre Dame from family to corporate style. He has served this University uncommonly well in the vital and persistent tradition of its founders." 
Ai-msti-ong was appointed as the first full-time Alumni secretary in 1926, a year following his gradua­tion from the University and after short stints as a writer for the South Bend News-Times and as pub­licity writer for the school. He g:uided ND's alumni £^wth from a few hundred to more than 40,000 and saw the number of local clubs swell from 39 in 1926 to 176, rang­ing from New York to Tokyo, before his retirement in 1967 after 41 years of service. 
Much has been said and written about "Mr. Jim" but nothing ex­presses his devotion to ND more accurately than the final paragraph inscribed on his service award. 

with 
"Few, indeed, have equalled James Elliot Armstrong as the finder of words for the wonders of Notre Dame, as a kindler of affection in the hearts of its sons, and in his loyalty to the Church in the light and timely splendor of which this place has flourished since Edward Frederick Sorin carried his cross into the fields 
and woods where Notre Dame du lac was to be bom." 
FORMER recipients of the Sorin Award, which is given for service to ND, are: Fr. Hesburgh, Bernard Voll, a member of the University's Board of Trustees, and the late Arch­bishop Paul J. Hallinan of At­lanta, Ga. 
In his centennial address Alumni secretary James D. Cooney traced the development of the Association from the 1868 impetus provided by Fr. Auguste Lemonniei-, then a Univer­sity vice-president, through its 
Elect Shoglund 

Alumni 

LEOXARD H. SKOGLUND JR. '38 has been elected to succeed Richard 
A. Rosenthal '54 as president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. As president he will also serve as an ex officio member of the University's Board of Trustees for the first time in ND history. The Trustees, at their fall meeting, voted unanimously to allow the Alumni president non­voting privileges. While at ND Skog­lund was active in varsity football and received All-American mention at end. He was also in the Monogram and Chicago Clubs. Since graduating magna cum laude in accounting he has been active in the Chicago Alum­ni Club and has served on the board of directors for the last thi-ee years as chairman of the nominating com­mittee. Len is also Class Agent for 1938. 
Cux'rently, he is vice-president of Scully-Jones and Co., Chicago, man­ufacturers of machine tool accesso­ries. He has been with the firm since 1941. He is also a member of the Controllers Institute of America and a member of the board and past pres­ident of the Cutting Tool Mfrs. Assn. 
Skoglund is married to the former Alice Scully, SMC '40. They have six children — Stephen, Thomas, Wil­liam, Martin, Mary Kay, and Daniel. 
Ten new men seek positions on the 

President 
Alnmni Board of Directors in the up­
coming election. Five will be elected. 
VINCENT J. DUNCAN '44 of Engle­wood. Col. is Director of the Walter Duncan Oil Properties in Denver, Col. He is also vice-president of the ND Club Qf Denver and co-chairman of the foundation's division of SUMMA in Denver. 
ROBERT A. ERKINS '47 of BnU, Idaho, is the owner of the Snake River Trout Co., the largest trout farm in the world. In 1964 Bob was selected by President Johnson's Coun­cil on Small Businesses as one of the top ten Small Business men in the 
U.S. He is vice-president of the Idaho State Chamber of Commerce and chairman of the board of the Na­tional Fisheries Institute. 
JOHN T. MASSMAN '56 hails from Kansas City, Mo. and is vice-presi­dent of the Massman Construction Co. John served three years as presi­dent and two years as secretary of the ND Club of Kansas City. He is a board member of the nationwide Mississippi Valley Assoc, and is serv­ing his fourth year as president of its Missouri-Kansas ConnciL 
RICHARD DELANEY '37 resides in Burlington, Iowa where he is vice-
Leonard H. Skoglund '38 

Sarin Award 
pi-esent-day burgeoning. He praised the 1923 establishment of a perma­nent alumni-support program which has blossomed over the years to more than $2 million of annual support. 
Cooney elaborated on the dual pur­pose of the Association as "an evolu­tion from the initial goal of fellow­ship and mutual fulfillment, realized today in prog:rams of continuing edu­cation, placement, reunions, maga­zines and club activities, to sei-vice to the University, seen today in pro­gi-ams of scholarship aid, endowment, public relations and student recruit­ment." He sounded a note of optimism i-egarding the future of the Associa­tion, "The history has been written and it's a significant reflection of Alumni involvement, devotion and dedication. But the past is but pro­logue, a mere indication of the ex­citing dimension that lies ahead in the intimate partnership between Notre Dame and her Alimini." 
president of the Midwest Biscuit Co. Diclv is active in the affairs of the ND Club of Burlington, a member of the District Court Judicial Nomi­nating Committee, and Director of tlie Burlington Chamber of Com­merce. 

J. RiCll.iRD L.XMEHE '49 lives in Duxbury, Mass. and is the prize­winning Boston Herald Traveler Edi­tor-Columnist-Reporter. In 19G1 he won the Sevellen Brown Memorial Award, top Associated Press honoi-s in the Northeast for "public and meritorious sei'i'ice," and has been nominated three times for the Pul­itzer prize in journalism. He has just finished his second year as Di­rector of the ND Club of Boston, is a member of the Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce Federal ."Agen­cies Advisoi-j' Committee and the national Naval Affairs Committee. 
ROBERT L. MCGOLDRICK '5G of West Hartford, Conn, is a senior account executive witli the Connecticut Gen­eral Life Insui-ance Co. Bob is a member of the board of directors of the ND Club of Hartford and is SUMM A Genei-al Chainnan for Con­necticut. 
LEOX.\UD H . TOSE '37 makes his home in Bridgeport, Pa. and is presi­dent of Tose, Inc., one of the largest tracking finns in the East. He is one of the stalwarts of tlie ND Club of Philadelphia and was the club's Man of the Year in 1951. He is also president of the New Jersey Trucking Assoc. 
•WALTER J. SHORT '39 resides in Washington, D.C. and is a senior vice-president for finance and ad­ministi-ation of Allegheny Airlines, Inc. Walt was a member of the board of governors of the ND Club of DC from 1956-59 and its chainnan in 195G, and treasurer of the club in 1954. He is currently a member of the board of directors of Aeronautical Radio, Inc. and .A.RINC Research Coi-p. 
EDWARD M. ABRAJIS '50 of Atlanta, Ga. is vice-pi-esident and director of -A.. R. .A.brams, Inc., a nationwide construction, propeily development, and manufacturing finn. Ed is a former officer of the ND Club of Atlanta, a member of the board of directors of the Heitman Mortgage Co., a member of the Geoi'gia Engi­neering Society, and a past director of the Standard Club of -Atlanta. 
FRANK L. MCGINN '52 lives in Pompano Beach, Florida where he owns and opei-ates the finn of McGinn Bros., a realty concern. Frank served nine years as a director and officer of the ND Club of Fort Lauderdale. He is a past president of the Board of Realtors and vice-president and director of the Florida ^Association of Realtors. He was named the "Realtor of the Year" in 19G4. 

Delaney '37 Massinan '56 McGoldrick '56 
Duncan '44-Erkins '47 Short '39 McGinn '52 
Abrams '50 Tose '37 Lamere '49 
U 
The quest for meaning. 


Senior Class 
ONE of the most venerable of the Notre Dame student activities is dead. The victim, The Senior Patriot of the Year Award, died at the hands of democracy, in the form of a Class ref­erendum. Although death was ex­pected, it was slow and painful. 
Last May 1 the Class of 19G9 voted to restructui-e the traditional Patriot of the Year Award. The official totals were G03 in favor of realignment, 57 in favor of abolishing the entire Se­nior activity, and 6G in favor of re­taining the Patriot of the Year Award. Over SO percent of those who voted were in favor of change. Two other factors which influenced a change in policy were the inability of the nominating committee to deter­mine satisfactory criteria in defining patriotism and the desire to expand nominations beyond the realm of mili­taiy and political leaders. 
'The Senior Patriot Award was in­augui'ated in 1954 and was presented 
*Dy David MeckUon '69 
A iieio generation of Notre Dame vieii expresses a neio philosophy. 

Institutes New 
to FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover. The ceremony of which it was a part, the Washington Day Exercises, dates back to 1849 and Father Sorin. As one of the few uninterrupted annual exercises of its type in the country, the Senior Class, in abandoning the Patriot of the Year .\ward, does not intend a denial of the Washington Day Exercises. Rather, the Class has proceeded to structure an award to honor "an individual who has had the integrity, the decency and the willing­ness to work for the best values and finest traditions of our society." The Senior Class Fellow, as the award is now known, has as its unique purpose the bringing to Campus of eminent men from various fields of public life 
who will, during a stay of two or three days, share in the life of the Senior Class and contribute to the spontaneous give-and-take of ND so­cial and intellectual life. 
The lack of dialogue and participa­

Award 

tion by the Senior Class regarding patriotism was brought embax-rass­ingly into focus on the night of the 1968 pi'esentation when it was re­ported that less than fifty Seniors were present in an audience tliat num­bered less than thi'ee hundred to honor Patriot John W. Gardner. In 19G7 there virtually was no Senior participation as the award was pre­sented to General William C. West­moreland "in absentia." 
w iTil the advent of the new guard 
a legitimate question ai'ises and seeks an answer from the Senior Class. Why is the symbolism of the Patriot Award no longer meaningful after 
so many years? To answer that ques­tion it is necessary to trace the cere­mony to its origin and follow its growth in the light of two, not con­ti-adictory yet not parallel, hierarchies of value. 
The Washington Day Exercises were initiated by Father Sorin to draw the attention of the Seniors to the nature of patriotism in general and to patriotic acts in particular. Fifteen years ago the Patriot of the Year Award was established as an opportunity for the Senior Class to extend their opinions and convictions beyond the academic environment. The recognition of patriotism was the first foi-mal activity of the Class to express a universal attitude in a democratic manner. This, it was held, was the true spirit of the Washington Day Exercise. 
During the last fifteen years there has been, quite obviously, a drastic change in national perspective. Love of countiy is no longer blind. It is a discriminating force. We have risen to the era of McCarthy and the in­tolerant spirit which equates respon­sible criticism with undennining the American way of life, and being soft on communism. The voices of super-patriotism, however, are not dead. Those who defend every cherished value, eveiy encrusted position of privilege in the name of love of coun­try, when in fact it is only love of status quo, qualify under what Sam­uel Johnson meant when he said, "Patriotism is the last refuge of the scoundrel." 
In abandoning the Patriot Award, the Senior Class does not intend to cast a negative judgment on society or on the outstanding Americans who have received the award in the past. jVdlai Stevenson, in his acceptance speech in 1963, remarked that "It is not easy to be a patriot these days— not because it is difficult to love one's country. The difficulty lies not with the love — but with loving one's coun­try in the right way." 
The members of the Class of '69 are not bitter iconoclasts. To desti-oy "God, Country and ND" is not their objective. Eathei", their only objec­tive is to make the fact, the histoiy, the sjTiibolism of its existence more meaningful, moi'e radiant than ever before. It is the feeling of many se­niors that love of mankind is a pre­requisite to love of country. These same senioi's do not consider the more than 21,000 young men and women who have demonstrated a unique com­mitment to society, vis-a-vis the Peace Corps, as patriots. They do, however, exhibit a gi-owing revulsion against Jim Crowism. Like Camus, the senior says, "No, I don't love my country, if pointing out what is unjust amounts to not loving, if insisting that what we love should measure up to the finest image we have of her amounts to loving." 
Patriotism, we believe, exists on a higher level than the mere flag-wav­ing, chauvinistic characteristics, that are so often isolated with the defini­tion of the term. Pati-iots should not be elected, but should be crowned by history in a meaningful context, for pati-iotism, if it can be defined, is its own reward in this life. The true patriots, we suspect, will agi-ee. 
CLASSES 

v7fii"VicioiyMcrai" 
.-Alumni Reunions 
MMcrMaltay 
^.^•MfniM Qui, 
Sacred jleait ChtBch IMtcirily'PNB '; ' HMn Dome dee Qub 
O'Slidughneaay Ho 
Father Lange ' Rosie's Sunny Italy The Medieval Institute 
20 "Jake" Klinp 
21 Mam Building' 
22 WadmitM's HrtM« bmitK 
23.
 pie So* ?:%%>* 

24.
 Father HeslNaih 



25.
 The W' 


26.
 UP- My 101st 


ill 86 '«,Aoi»r" Ptatnc 
66.'folMiyDee 
27 reason for supporting 
87 UFMIM Stitat Cntv 

i7-'»«•><«« Gras 
Notre Dame is 
3. 

Prot Larry Baldinger 
33.V 

IJHHMT 
34.
 R.O.^ 

35.
 Unwersii)/ ^^ 


36. The Grotto 

<jite;M(ik'CiNirt'V'' 
37. %ra PancsUsB 

Maimui Library: 
38. The Blue Circle 
39 REVIEW OF POUTICS 

59 Tliit''terViait" 79 fintficrJphnVKibh 
40 iMialWI 

60 OTa ftMCnik %• 80 Notre Dame Mumm AssocMtun 
41. UniMc 

81 ThtlifinMry 42 •(. Gaeiie I. ShHiK ­
62. TheNalKDMi 82 Jaaior FSudrts* Wcckciri 
43 THE SCHOLASTIC 

63. Radialton Laboratory 83 Student Government 
44 Cartier Field -' ''-­

64 1HE OBSUUVER 84 TTie Huddle 65 ^fil^d 85 Father Jerome Wilson 
NAME 
/ 
CLASS ADDRESS <ir C CITY -^ May's and St X 

- \STATE 
56.
 Notre Dame Stadiil 

57.
 diirtW^ayc. 

58.
 CHkrfvttcSMirafi 



The first 100 reasons are the easiest. 
One More Makes a 
ow, in the frenzy of holiday prep­arations can you remember your mail bag of last August? The men at the Notre Dame Foundation office had come up ^vith one more idea—asking you for yours. What was reason ^101 why you should support ND? "The skeptics of the Alumni staff were sure that nothing new would come in. More, they were sure that nothing would come in. 
But—it did—and much of it was new. Perhaps when the kids have finished tearing off the Christmas wrappings and you are weary from the effort of ti-ying to put together son's "easy-to-assemble-jet-model" you might like to sit back, relax and admire the ingenuity of your fellow alumni. The follo^ving were culled from the total i-esponses to demon­
16 
strate the realistic, idealistic, prag­matic, creative, and in the final anal­ysis, loyal, feelings of ND alumni. (It is left to the reader to catalog the responses under the appropriate adjective). '64 Ziggy's meals, '67 The general program of liberal studies, '30 My Catholic education. I need it veiy much today. '63 Tuesday night physics tests, '40 ND needs money 
(lots), '67 Innsbmck program, '33 Habit (ed's note—never break it!) '37 I have never been so restricted and still enjoyed a wonderful associa­tion, '41 Sentiment, '67 Senior Bar, '32 That there may be a second century, '17 In memory of the dis­cipline that once prevailed at Army, Navy and ND. 
'63 1968 National Championship, 

88 jftMf U deyUM/^MafaM  lAon 
89 Main Quadrangle ,90. Father McCaira^er .; 
\91. Commencement Weekend: 
- 92. Notre Dame Fieldhouse . . J3: WiitJkimtUtm MlmU '. 
95 lackMcAKster 
96 Debate Team, 
-/ 

98 "Kiatt RednM. Ml AaMricae" 
t 
99 Hie "South Shore" 
100 Stfmt^mmimr 
Difference 
'67 To help feed the undei-paid pro­fessors, '26 The contributions that ND is making to our countiy, '66 Off Campus living, '59 Nixon's election and birth control, '64 '69 football ticket sales, '28 Notre Dame, '51 ND hopefuls Ted J r '79, Tim '81, Tom '83, '47 The hope that ND will someday again be interested in the avei-age student, '50 Scholarships for Negroes and Jews, '44 My wife insists on it! '67 Sweeney's, '64 All the memories your 100 reasons revive, '60 Wanting to—as simple as that, '63 Its stimulat­ing philosophical atmosphere encour­aged by a concern for a transcenden­tal order, (ed.'s note: we never thought of that one). 
'68 Louie's, '53 The laundry, '66 More contributions help you get fed­eral funds, '62 The commitment to give the world 1st class Catholics, 1st class men, '44 Larger football sta­dium, '57 The encouragement of re­sponsible thought and criticism of the Church today, '68 Proximity of SMC's beauties—I'm engaged to one, '30 Academic excellence and first things first, '54 I want to notify you of a change of address, '09 I was there for the first public rendition of the "Vic­toiy March," '62 Gi-een Beer, '58 Five daughters, '68 Townies. 

'62 The ND mystique which now manifests itself in something in ad­dition to football, '66 I finally had a few $ to spare, '50 Old Vetville— gone now but not forgotten, '40 Change, '63 The guys that go there —a chapel in your own hall, '52 Stu­dents can now wear beards—^forbid­den under Kev. Jos. Keough, '59 To honor Our Lady, '61 The Grotto and the fall of the year, '17 I have been contributing for over 50 years with­out a miss, and plan to continue while I am able, '61 My belief in strong. 
You Can Hear Those All Across the 
TH E conclusion of the recent rendi­tion of ELECTION '68 turned out to be a curtain-raiser for the political debuts of a number of Notre Dame men across the country. At the same time a number of Sons of Erin won additional chances to show their stuff in the political arena and, alas, there were a few of the Old Sodsmen who made gallant efforts but didn't quite make it. 
Heading the list of ND candidates was John J. Gilligan '43 who lost a cliff-hanger to Alan Saxbe in a bid to capture Fi-ank Lausche's U.S. Senate seat in Ohio. Running on the Dem-oci-atic ticket and at the same time bucking old party lines Gilligan ran right down to the wire. 
The biggest ND winners captured a pair of Lt. Governorships. Tom Judge '57, foimer State Senator from Montana, won an overwhelming vic­tory in that state's race for the Lt. Governorship. The 34-year-old Demo­crat compiled a 20,000-vote plurality. James H. "Jim" DeCoursey '54 was elected to the same post in Kansas. 
George F. Cronin '59 was re-elected to a third tenn on the Massachusetts 
••; 
^^^^K 
s 

'V 
•'•^"'-••^^^^B^^^^BP ^ 
'^1*^ -^^­
9 ^ 

Governor's Council and is currently sei-ving as chaii-man of the finance committee on the Council. The Council is made up of eight individuals elected from districts ai'ound the state and it has jurisdiction over all financial matters involving the state. 
Thomas G. Kavanagh '38 was elected to an eight-year term on the Michigan Supreme Court after senr­ing four years of a 10-year term on the State Court of Appeals. He de­feated Michael O'Hara '33. Edwai-d 
V. Hani-ahan '43, a Democi-at, won the post of State's Attorney for Cook County with a decisive victoi-y over his opponent Robert J. O'Rourke. 
OTHE R Fighting Irishmen who got the nod were: Fi-ancis A. "Frank" Norton, Jr. '32 and William T. "Bill" Hanifin '49, both Republicans, who were re-elected as County Supervisors in the Binghamton, N.Y. area. Bernard G. Kesting '25, and Robert 5L Kopf '48 were re-elected as County Eng^ineer and Court Clerk, respec­tively, in Lucas County, Toledo, Ohio. 
John M. Ryan '41 was elected to the Indiana State Senate. Michael L. 
private, higher education, '53 I was brow-beaten by my Class agent, '58 I am alive. 
There was no attempt to edit by the editor but of the many responses certain reasons came up too often to be ignored—^like the names of Father Tom Brennan, John Cardinal CHara, and Bob Cahill. Wide words like love and gratitude that mean different things to each. And the reason that sort of saved the skeptics' faces— "Your 100." 
Irish AyesLand 
Burke '57 made the grade as a newly elected member of the Planning Board of the Town of Canton, Mass. Ron Mottl '56 won a State Senate seat in the 24th District of Ohio, while James Flanneiy .'60 was re-elected to the State House of Representatives from the 48th Ohio District. Another Buckeye, Judge Eugene Sawicki '34, moved up from the Cleveland Munic­ipal Court to the position of CcHnmon Pleas Judge, encompassing all of Cuyahoga County. 
1 P OLDEN Domers to bite the dust in­cluded K. Wayne Kent, Democratic candidate for U.S. Congress from the Indiana Eighth District, in a bid for his first national office—a squeaker to Republican incumbent Roger Zion. Joseph A. Sansone '47 was an unsuc­cessful Republican candidate for Dis­trict Judge in Guilford County, North 
Carolina. Gene O'Connor '56, a Dem­ocrat, was defeated in his try for Congress in the 40th District of New York. Nicholas J. Bohling '31 was unsuccessful in his effort to unseat the Democratic incumbent Judge in the Cook County, Illinois Circuit Court. 
George Cronin '59 Thomas Kavanagh '38 James DeCoursey 'Si Wayne Millner at HaU of Fame induction ceremony. 
Hall of Fame forMillner 
^^AYNE MILLNER, the All-American 
end who electrified the 1935 ND sea­
son with his great catches of Bill 
Shakespeare's passes, has been in­
ducted into the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame in Canton, Ohio. 
Millner was graduated from ND in 
1936 with a bachelor of science in 
commerce degree. He made his debut 
as a pro in 1937 at the end position 

with the Washington Redskins, who 
at that time were playing in Boston. 

He remained with the club when it 
moved to Washington, but left the 
team after the 1941 season. 
The fall of 1942 saw Millner back at ND, serving as assistant line coach under Frank Leahy. Meanwhile, he had also entered the Navy and was preparing for his indoctrination course at the Dartmouth Naval School. When he arrived at the school, he discovered that at least two of his barrack mates were fa­miliar faces. Learning the nautical ropes with Millner were Lieut. (j.g.) Joe Kuhafich, another star member of that '35 squad, and Lieut, (j.g.) Ray Thomas, a South Bend native who did some catching for the Brook­lyn and Indianapolis baseball teams. 
After his discharge from the Navy in 1945, Millner took over as Red­skin end coach for the next three seasons. In 1948, he joined the Chi­cago Rockets of the All-American con­ference before taking over a year later as end coach for the Baltimore Colts. 
It was during the 1951 season that Millner got his first taste of the head coaching spot, taking over the leader­ship of the Philadelphia Eagles when illness sidelined Coach Alvin N. (Bo) McMillan. 
It was during that 1933 season that Millner acquired a reputation for never letting injuries—or much else for that matter—get in his way, at least not in the way of Ms presence in the lineup, and seldom in the way of those pay-dirt grabs from Shake­speare. 
CLASS NOTES 

MS OH—VERY MUCH AUVE! All contributors to the ALUMNUS were notified late in October that due to the overwhelming amount of material received, the only alternative was to start cutting. Therefore we were not surprised to find that a number of items had been omitted from the October issue. Hence, to avoid slighting any of my fellow classmates, I am enclosing them here-in. A note from WILLARD V. HAllAM '15 con­tained the news that a recent operation was a success and that he is slowly gaining the use of his hand and arm. "Also I'm gaining ground on the stroke side of my illness." He wos elated that his doctor had granted per­mission for him to attend the Air Force Rorida football game in Tampa. DR. JEREMIAH A. McCARTHY '1< expressed regrets on being unable to attend the Class Reunions in June—"Would be delighted if able —too ill to travel." His address is 4545 Los Felix Blvd., Los Angeles, Cal. 90024. FRANK 
B. WELSH "16 wrote, "Sorry, my happiest days were spent of ND." 205 Cherry St., Fall River, Mass. 02726. FRANCIS J. CAREY '17. "Fond and grateful memories of my happiest doys." 2619 N. Olive Lane, Santa Ano, Cal. 92706. RAYMOND J. KELLY '15, " I will be there if my health permits. I have a grandson at ND now. His older brother graduated in '53 and should be there for five year reunion but he is a Lt. in the Army headed for Vietnam." 18073 Fairfield Ave., Detroit 48221. 
JAMES F. O'BRIEN '13, "Doubtful 1 will be at ND on our 5Sth. At this distance it is difRcult to manage. OK otherwise." 1835 Calte Tronquilo, Tucson, Arizona 85705. LEONARD F. SMITH '06, "Dr. won't let me drive that far— 85 years old." 4423 No. Winthrop Ave. Indpls., Ind. 46200. THEODORE N. FEYDER •14-His good wife reported, "He is unable to attend. He sends greetings to the class of 1914." 800 
W. 4th St. Sioux Falls, So. Dak. 57104. 
More of the some: S. J. BURKHARO '13— "Hello to all classmates and other friends from '09 to '13."—116 Chicago St. Fairmont, W. Va. 26554. ELMER J. WHITTY a "14 "Sony because of ill health."—7447 So. Shore Dr. Chicago. 
lAOISLAUS A. KOIUPA CI '04 "Yes I'll be 
there but I will need a pair of crutches to keep 
up with youngsters"—1115 W. Jefferson Blvd., 
So. Bend, Ind. 46625. WALES E. FINNEGAN 
'10:—"I'm physically unable to travel." 10616 
Mantz Rd. Hillondole, Silver Springs, Md. 20903. 
STEPHEN H. HERR CE '10 "t hope to meet 
2043 men of the class of 1910. Furthermore 
I am on optimist."—^214 East Hickory. St., 
Chatsworth, III. 60921. He asked that reserva­
tions be mode for him and Mrs. Herr at the 
Morris Inn for June 7 and 8. He also asked 
that confirmation be sent to Office of the 
Pres., Citizens Bonk of Chatsworth. 
ROBERT C. CARR Ph.B '16 AM '17. " I am 
not oble to make the trip, but I shall be there 
in spirit." 426 Congress St., Ottawa, III. 61350. 
FRANK O. BARTEL CE '15. "Can't travel be­
cause of health."—610 Rutledge St., Spartan­
burg, S.C. 29302. As I said before, it was good 
to hear from these grand men of the 50 Year 
Club. May I suggest how nice it would be 
for other members of the club to drop them o 
note of cheer. 
Just 0 brief comment on the ND-Mich. St. 
game Oct. 26. No doubt any number of the 
fans who wotched the game on TV speculated 
OS I did as to whot the end result would 
have been had ND tried a few field goals 
instead of "going for broke" on the goal line. 
How fortunate for Mich. St. that ND didn't. 
Happy birthday to the following:—Nov., Dec. 
and Jon. John F. Bogle—Box 67, Coolgate, 
Oklo. 74538. H. Daniel Madden Sr.—7123 
Silvercrest Dr., Cincinnati, Ohio 45236. Judge 
Raymond J. Kelly—18073 Fairfield Ave., Detroit, 
Mich. 48221. Floyd W. Shoefer—911 Clyman 
St., Wotertown, Wis. 53094. 
Also to: Col. Joseph J. Heoly-2S01 Castle-

wood Dr., Sacramento, Calif. 95821. Lawrence 
E. McDonald—62 Ellen Lone, Oceonside, Calif. 92054. Rev. Patrick T. Quinlon—^St. Ann's Mis­sion Parish, Kingstree, S.C. 29556. Norman H. Ronsteod—124 No. Wolf Rd., Des Plaines, III. 60016. William E. Kennedy—1589 Oak Park Dr., Owensfaoro, Ky. 42301. 
Albert A. Kuhle 
V7 Sunset Ave. 
LoGronge, III. 60525 

M6 EIMIUO ESTIMATES Few lines on our dear EMILIO SALAZAR '16. He writes me he would love to do estimating for some firm so he would feel more inde­pendent. Clossmotes drop him a line at least at 1416 Warren Place, Lafayette, Ind. 47905. And send me-some news also. 
Grover Miller 
1208 S. Moin St. Racine, Wis. 53403 

'17 REMEMBER BROTHER 
WHATSHISNAME7 

What was the real name of Bro. Post Office? 
Who was Bros. Step and a Half? 
What was the real name of Bro Leap ond what did he sell? Yes, that's right—and he mode his own product, too. 
Who was Bro. Express Office? How quickly he could come up with your package, if you come up with o quarter tip. The package? Probably a birthday cake from home or from your girl friend. Soy, that must hove been be­fore parcel post. 
What was the real name of the Growler who drove his horse and buggy downtown every Thursday to look for skivers. What were skivers? You must be reading the wrong col­umn, Mac, if you do not know. 
And what was the name of Bro. Hugh's horse? O, yes, she did hove o name and the heaves, too, but it wasn't Dolly. 
What was the real name of Snakes and how did this horrid nickname originate for such a saintly brother? 
Who was Red Raymond? A South Bend gangster? No, just the brother with carrot red hair who was a dorm prefect in Brownson Hall. 
Whot was the avocation of good old Bro. 
Cyp who taught book-keeping in the basement 
of the Main BIdg. for so many years? 
Who was the brother we called Ever With 
Us, for obvious reasons. You ore right if you 
say Everistus, a custodian in Snoring Hall, 
whose hobby was operatic records. On Red 
Seal by Caruso and you were in for life. Well, 
at least for the rest of the year. 
Why did Bro. John go to Chicago once a 
year on business for the U.? Because he was 
mgr. of the community stock farm and es­
corted our entries of sheep, swine and cattle 
to the International Live Stock Show and col­
lected many prizes and blue ribons for good 
old ND. 
And who could ever forget the beloved Bro. 
Cojeton, rector of St. Ed's Holl, the home of 
the not so beloved Minims, where Cojiy often 
mixed up a bit of mind profanity with his 
morning prayers which he said while shaving, 
when he nicked his chin with a 10-year-old 
straight edge razor he brought from the old 
country. 
Dan E. Hi/garlner '17 P.O. Box 75 Horberf, Mich. 49115 

'18 VITAL STATS 
Class of "18. Wishes you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. Birthday Greetings: Dec. 1 CHARLES W. BACHMAB '17, 11 Sunset Lone, Pompono Beach, Flo. 33062. Dec. 15 FRANK M. KIRKLAND '17, 950 S.W. 21st St., Portland, Ore. 97205. Dec. 18th, CARLETON 
D. BEH, "17, 5323 Waterbury Rd., Des Moines, Iowa 50312. Dec. 21, EDWIN T. BREEN '18, 1542 Sherwin Ave. Chicago, III. 60626. Dec. 31, DR. RENE RODRIGUEZ, 2266 Broadway, Denver, Colo. 80205. Jon. 22 LEONARD F. MAYER, ME, 721 So. Beach St. Doytona Beach, Fla. 32014. Jan. 23, JOHN A. LEMMER, 901 Loke Shore Dr., Esconoba, Mich. 49829. 
Wedding Anniversaries: Dec. 2, EDWARD J. KENNY, 'IS, 74 Cameron Ave., Hempstead, NY. 11550. Dec. 24, PAUL E. EDGREN, '18, 701 Culberton Dr., Oklahoma City, Oklo. 73105. Dec. 30 BRAULIO A. MUNECAS '16, 10084 Bergman St. Huntington Woods, Mich. Jan. 2, DR. NEIL J. "WHITEY" WHALEN, 1023 Cadieux Rd., Grosse Pointe Pork, Mich. Jan. 4, WILLIAM BREEN McDONALD, 55 W. 5th Ave. San Mateo, Calif. 94402. 
REV. CHARLES J. WILLIAMS writes, "A bus load of parishioners attended the ND-III. game. Cheers unlimited were our portion but tears showed up among the Champaign members of our group. Met JOHN ond Mrs. LEMMER. Thanks 'Big Fronk" RYDZEWSKI for spiritual bouquet cards. Wonder if "BF" thinks I'm headed the wrong way." 
JAMES GORDON WALLACE sent copy of ALUMNUS picture of ND Glee Club of 1916-17. Writes of WILLIAM J. "Pete" NOONAN, track man, as being "Someone's Son." JOE McGINNIS of Brownson Hall as "Who Is That." Also writes that FRANCIS T. "Frenchy" McGrain listed OS mail returned passed away. Will return photo of "18 Class after JOHN J. VOELKERS fills in names you connot identify. 
MAXIMILIAN G. KAZUS hod duplicate slides made of pictures token at reunion. Dr. NEIL 
J. "WHITEY" WHALEN hos 'em now, as well OS those taken at 45th Reunion. If you hove projector and interested in seeing 'em I will see you get the slides. Just let us know. 
THOMAS J. O'MEARA, 816 Crawford St., Deltono, Flo. 32763. Reporting no wind or rain here. Enjoying some weather as you enjoyed while here for Golden Jubilee. TOM did you get to challenge COMDR. CHARLES 
W. CALL and GEORGE E. HARBERT (quote) "to a fast lop around the Lake?" Quote from EDWARD W. "MOOSE" KRAUSE'S (one of the younger generation "grods") letter to WILLIAM 
E. BRADBURY "16. " GEORGE WAAGE's trophy (ND's 1st aoss country run) arrived in excellent condition, thanks. At the present time it it safely ensconced in my luxurious office." Yean ago, gave Cup to BILL for his office—never thought it would end up bock at ND." 
Sincerely hope that we are correct in report­ing that no '18'ers are on "sick-call." Next issue hope to report about how JAMES F. HANLON is doing in rest home. JAMB P. LOGAN and JAMES L SWEENY, keep in touch with Jim and will let us know. LAMBERT 
Q. SENG, football and track man drove to Dixon, III. with Mrs. Seng. Had dinner and spent pleasant evening with ex-It. Gov. SHER­WOOD DIXON and Mrs. Dixon who U re­cuperating after visit in hospital. 
Wonder how JOHN P. THURIN '59 feels as age creeps up and he is promoted "upstairs" to softer job (as ye Editor) and mokes room for a younger man, TOM SULLIVAN. '66 to take over Managing Editor job? Best wishes to you both. 
Note from "WHITEY" WHALEN. " I have been in hospital and now confined to home." No doubt "DOC" is "back on his feet" but you could send him a cord—why not? 
A late note that I just received from Rutti the wife of CHARLIE CALL. Charlie recently underwent surgery and is doing fine. 
Be loyal to our Seniors. Remember CARLE­TON D. BEH, monogram track star. Pleased to hear from BEH. He writes: "We have been down to all of the home games and I thought sure you would be able to drop over to our box to see BERNIE VOLL, PAUL FOGARTY and the rest of the gang who sit in or near our box." 
George B. Wooge 3305 Wrlghtwood Ave. Chicago, III. 60647 

*20 SORTED SENTIMENTS Many joyous events and several occasions for sadness in our 50 years hove been experienced since attending ND. One of the sad reports is the death of JOHN BALE'S wife Sept 27. John has been a strong factor in ND relations in NYC and the loss of his wife has been a sod thing for him to bear. It was most cheering to hear from our leading attorney EDWARD DORAN of South Bend. This summer he was able to spend a couple of weeks relaxing and fishing in Elio, Minn near the Conodion border. Illness kept him from our lost Reunion eight years ago. He added cheer to all of us at our 40 year Reunion and is full of cheer and pep and looking forward to our next one. He has taken off 40 pounds and feels great. A good reminder for former Congressman, JOE O'HARA. He has one ND son, a lawyer, in his office and is boasting of having 20 grandchil­dren to make Sherwood Dixon still behind in this department. I should hear from Honorable CLIFF­. FORD O'SULLIVAN, who has a daughter in Rochester, NY ond from Judge JAMES CLOHES­SEY, who has a daughter now a lawyer, so that I may pass information along in our doss reports. Received the sod report of the death of ED­WIN FREDERICKSON '20. His home was in South Bend and he transferred from the U. of Wisconsin to ND. He taught there for a short time and was a bachelor. PAUL CONAGHAN and TOM BEACON, as you may recall, went to Harvard Low School from ND. Tom died after reaching a very high posi­tion in a Chicago Bonk. He was one of the di­rectors of ND and held many high honors in the banking Betd. Paul joined a prominent law firm in Chicago and today heads a firm of 30 or more lawyers that represents many large com­panies the status of the U.S. Steel Corp. He has spent several summers vacationing in England. He does not like air travel and his last trip wos aboard the Queen Mary on her last voyage. He visited Switzerland and other European coun­tries during the summer and attended the Inter­national Bar Association meeting in Dublin. He has one brilliant daughter in Winchester, Mass., 
who earned a Doctorate and is blessed with Paul's two grandchildren. He has three sons one of whom is with the Holiday mogozine m San Francisco. His youngest sen b in the Georgetown law School and has the oppor­tunity of following his father's brilliant hard working and very successful legal practice. For a form boy who waited on tables at NO, Paul has never missed a Reunion and today a among the notion's leading attorneys. 
SHERWOOD DIXON a hondHng our opcoei­ing SO year Reunion. I hope he stalls eorly and keeps after it. 
JOHN Ban is our Oaa agent for the 2ilh Alumni fund supporting SUMMA, ND's greatest challenge, and needs your support. 
I again request members oif our Qass to send me informotioa so that I may pass it along to otiiers, I am sura tliera ara many who can do so. 
Jomcs H. Ryan 
2470 Eost Ave. Apt 314 Rochester, N.Y. 14610 

'22 TWO GREAT GUYS W e deeply regret to report the deaths of two more fine classmates: ciEORGE E. PROKOP of 1003 Cherokee Drne, Youngstown Ohio 44511, on June 16 and thot of T. HAROLD McCABE of 2121 N.E. 40lh O. Apt. 4, Ughthouse Pbint. Pompano Beach. Flo. 330i4. Harold died in Ft. Lauderdale Oct. 9. George Prokop «ms o prominent Youngstown, Ohio attorney. He spent the lost 13 years of his life in the county auditor's oAice. Although he was bora in Pittsburgh he grew up in Youngstown. At ND he vras on outstanding baseball and football ployer, being a bocfcfield teammate of George Gijn> under Rodne. In '23 he received his low degree from Ohio State. At various times he served as city solicitor of Campbell, Ohio and. as a member of the board of education. He was Campbell's justice of the peace and president of the Youngstown Slovak Society. Besides his wife Kotherine, he leaves o son Gilbert, a teacher and coach at South High and four grand­children. We extend our loving sympathy to his wife who so tenderly looked after her husband's needs at our 4Sth Reunion lost year. Horald McCobe spent most of his life in Rochester. NY where he began work with the Eastman Kodak Co. in 1919. In 1951 he became head of ccntrol adjustment. He helped found tlie Kodok 25-Year Club and was post vice-pres. of the ND Club of Rochester, ffarald leaves his widow Mory, two married daughters and o sister. Sister M. Annuneioto. Our deep sympathy is extended to Mrs. McCobe and all the mem­bers of the family. WALTER L SHUTS ofter 46 years of teoching in the ND College of Engineering was desig­nated Professor Bneritus in June. Together with Prof. Graves of the Civil Engineering Oept. he hos opened o lob for the testing of engineering materials, principally those of construction in South Bend. His youngest son THOAAAS '61 presented him with his 30th grandchild, Michael Walter, Aug. 18. Hearty congratulations, Walter, for thot wonderful teaching career you hove so fruitfully fallowed for almost a half century. To you ond to your good wife we send a special salute for the arrival of that 30th grandchild. We ore happy to onnounce in this column the marriage of Miss Catherine Anne Burke, 
daughter of Mr. ond Mrs. Stephen J. Burke of Warminster. Pa. to Bernard E. Bailey, son of Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD B. BAILEY of Philo­delphia. Popo Ed, father of the groom wos at ND as 0 minum, a prep, and a college student and may hold a longevity Campus record. He was a sprinter on the track team and served two terms as a director of the ND Alumni Association Board. Best of wishes to the newlyweds and to the families involved. 
G. "Kid" Ash» 
775 landing Rood North RocAesfer, N.Y. 14625 
1? 
'23 ONLY A MODICUM 
Correspondence between th!i listening post'and 
classmates out in the far reaches of the land 
has produced only a modicum of information 
for this column. And yet the correspondence 
has been heart-worming, following as it did 
our enthusiastic 45th Reunion last June. The 
lesson principally derived from our letter-
writing and telephoning has been: Don't miss 
another Reunion. The older you get, the more 
you love getting back. Younger Alumni espe­
cially should be enjoined not to miss 'em. You 
of the Classes of 1924-29 and later, begin now 
to come back home in June. Next time might 
be too late. 
Already sick at our Reunion time, and now 
gone from us forever is RICHARD J. NASH, 
Chicago, who died of a heart attack Oct. 10. 
Dick was one of our best-liked classmates, and 
had been a faithful visitor to the Campus 
several times a year. We all are grateful to 
hove had him with us in most of our earlier 
reunions. 
News of his death went out by mail to our 
Class about a week later through a medium 
which has for years been a source of pride to 
us—our secretarial newsletters several times a 
year. The close contacts among all of us of 
'23 who care have been due to the regular 
secretarial newsletters supplementing this col­
umn in the ALUMNUS, and I urge all class 
secretaries to try it for better results in your 
newsgothering. 
In fact, the absence of '23 news in the lost 
issue of the ALUMNUS, and the brevity of the 
notes in this issue, are the result of the closer 
intra-closs relotions among '23 men. We con­
cern ourselves with more intimate chitchat, pro­
hibited in these columns for reasons of space. 
We'll give you herein only the top news and 
we can't always get it to you fast enough to 
keep it timely. 
Louis V. Bruggner 
Id67 Riverside Dr., Apt. A 
South Bend, Indiana 466]6 
'24 CAUGHT BY COINCIDENCE 
Your new Class secretary mode the mistake of corresponding with the ALUMNUS just as they were searching for someone to replace the late JIM MEEHAN. Being opposed to burning draft cards, your help is sought in carrying out this assignment. Let me see if I can shoot some arrows that will prick the memory of a few classmates and stimulate you to correspond so we con regain o little self-esteem in the Class of '24. 
How many remember the time we staged the first "protest meeting" of Cortier Field? The food in the cafeteria was presumably a little less than we expected in these first years of free choice between the Dining Hall run by the good sisters, and the Cafeteria run by Clark's. By word of mouth the word spread that a pro­test meeting would be held at Cartier Field that afternoon. What happened? Knute Rockne showed up and turned it into a spontaneous "pep meet­ing" for the support of the great teams we hod "even in those days." Remember? Could he do it today? 
There is so little news to start out that it is necessary to reach bock a couple of years when ED CANTWELL was actively working on the Foundation Program and was interested in news of our classmates. Are you still at it, Ed? LEO HERINGER wrote one—that was to remind us to put ND in our wills. Rev. RAY PIEPER CSC claims he is semi-retired. He teaches English at Portland U. Rev. TOM KELLY CSC is also at Portland U. teaching Latin and Greek. A search through the membership of the Alumni Assoc, of Oregon discloses only one other •24er, JOHN F. O'DONNELL, Box 444, Portland, Ore. 97207. There are 49 other states. 
Let's hear from you. 
James P. Durcan 5400 S.Vf. SchoHs Ferry Rd. Portland, Oregon 97225 

Charles N. Heekelmann 'H William J, Eiley '38 
Col G. B. Barrett Jr. 'iS John A. Lynch 'JU 
Congrats 
J. Ray Hunt '27, managing editor of the Philadelphia Daily News, was cited for his "singular contributions to his craft" at a dinner honoring 50 years in journalism. The dinner was attended by civic leaders and fellow newsmen. 
Dr. Patrick J. V. Corcoran '34 is the new president of the Indiana State Medical Association. A special­ist in internal medicine in Evansville since 1943 Dr. Corcoran is a diplo­mate of the American Board of In­ternal Medicine, a Fellow of the American College of Physicians and a Fellow of the American College of Cardiology. 
Charles N. Heekelmann '34 has been appointed senior editor of Cowles Education Corporation. He previously served as managing editor and direc­tor of Paperback Reprint Sales for David McKay Co. and as president and editor-in-chief of Monarch Bodes. 
William J. RUey '38 has moved from president of the First National Bank of East Chicago, Ind. to chair­man of the board of directors. The Bileys have four sons and a daugh­ter and reside in Munster, Ind. 
Col. George B. Barrett Jr. '42 has been promoted to the rank of Judg^e Advocate at the U.S. Atmy Combat Developments Command, Fort Bel­voir, Va. He recently completed a tour of duty in Vietnam. 
John A. Lynch '44 has been ap­pointed director of publications for the Perini Corporation of Framing-ham, Mass. A former managing edi­tor and editor of the Perini ^eirs. Lynch has held editorial positions with Ford Motor Company and Ben­dix Aviation Corporation, His ar­ticles have appeared in Atlantic Monthly and Commonweal. 

'25 ALL FROM HALL 
HAROLD F. HALL, pres. of the Catholic Lit­erary Guild, Inc.— 225 Central Ave., White Plains, NY writes — "Thanks for your note and I am glad that GEORGE CHOA got a copy of the Dome. I happen to have two and I knew that if a person didn't have one, how important it would be to one of the graduates who was without one. I'm still in the magazine business and it probably got into my blood when I sold subscriptions dur­ing the summer while attending ND. The same feeling was passed along to my five sons, all of whom are with took magazine. I still keep active and enjoy every minute of my work. I am looking forward to getting out to our next reunion in 1970." 
John P. Hurley 2085 Brookdole Rd. 
Toledo, Ohio 43606 

'28 CONGRATS FROM CATHOLIC WHO'S WHO 
In scanning the new American Catholic Who's Who, I noted three '28 men listed from Co­lumbus, Ohio. This listing includes JOHN IGOE, JUDGE JOSEPH KINNEARY, and JIM SHOCKNESSY. John Igoe is a trustee of St. Charles Col. and Jim Shocknessy has been a member of the Board of Trustees of Ohio State 
U. and of Wilberforce U. for some years. Jim also served for a number of years as a trustee of Gilmore Academy. 
Word has just been received of the death 
of Rita Flanagan, the wife of our Class vice-
pres. for the West, CHRISTIE FUNAGAN. 
Christie has two sons who are ND graduates. 
ED CUNNINGHAM has had three serious 
throat operations in eleven weeks. Remember 
him in your proyers. ED McKEOWAN, MIKE 
HOGAN end ART DENCHFIELD hove recovered 
from recent surgery. ART MILLER was hospital­
ized for some time following on automobile 
accident, but is now getting around on crutches. 
LEO WALSH was elected pres. of the Assoc. 
of Labor Mediation Agencies, on organization 
of the mediation agencies of the US and Can­
ada. Leo has served as o member of the 
Michigan Labor Mediation Board for a number 
of years under Governors Williams and Romney. 
He did an excellent job on a talk given at o 
conference recently ot Loyola U. on collective 
bargaining in schools. 
BERNIE GARBER advised me that two of JOE 
BREIG's editorials on civil rights were among 
the 12 finalists chosen from more than 100,000 
entries in the Golden Quill competition. Also, 
Joe was the first recipient of the Henry A. 
Rocher Memorial Fund by the Cleveland Jewish 
Community Federation. The award included a 
trip to Israel. Incidentally, I don't hove to go 
outside of my parish to hear of Joe. A quote 
from his book. The Mysteries of Marriage, was 
included in my parish bulletin this week. 
HOWIE PHALIN was awarded o medal of honor by the U. of Fu Jen in Chicago Oct. 18, according to a report from Bernie Gorber. 
I reod some excellent articles by '28 -men recently. BILL BROWN wrote on "Structure, Greatest Hang-up in Today's Church" in a cover article In the Oct. 19 issue of America. JOE BREIG had a short story about a future age in the April and May issues of Today's Family entitled "The End of the Old Women." I found the book, Howard V. Phalin, The Pur­suit of Excellence published by Reld Enter­prises Educational Corp., to be very Interesting reading. The volume presents a sketch of Howie's life and career and includes his thought and philosophy as expressed In his addresses before business conferences. A paper by your Class sec. on "The Employed Woman" was included in the book Woman in Modern Life, edited by William C. Bier SJ and published recently by the Fordham U. Press. 
While doing some research for on article on Pope John XXIII recently I accidentally ran across a reprint in the Congressional Record of on article by EUGENE O'BRIEN on Pop* 
John which was inserted by Senator Humphray 
in 1963. I certainly agree with th« rafeirenca 
by the Senator thot the study by Gene was a 
remarkable one. The lost time I hod liie 
experience of accidentally finding news of a 
classmate was in 1965 while doing some re­
search in NY. I ran across o picture on Ifie 
cover of Iron Age of FRANK DONOVAN over 
the caption "Prove union-management team­
work pays off." 
Thanks to our Class Pres. ED QUINN, and 
his wife Helena, our 13th annual Class Cock­
tail Party following the Illinois gome was an­
other great success. There were over 35 class­
mates with their wives present. Two widows 
of classmates, Mrs. Chet Rice and Mrs. Williom 
Coyne, were present. We olso hod three gen­
erations represented with the PHIL CENEDEllAS 
and the JOHN (RED) UHEYS. Incidentally, 
does anyone have more grandchildren than 
RED LAHEY with his 23? Also, is the 7-year­
old child of WAYNE BUSHMAN the youngest 
of our classmates' children? 
BOB GRAHAM was Involved in a very serious 
automobile accident Oct. 27 and is at St. Luke's 
Hospital in Chicago. ART MILLER is recovering 
from injuries received In an outomobile accident 
in Fort Wayne. Judge JOHN LYONS is confined 
to his home with illness and ED McKEOWAN 
is home convalescing fallowing on operation. 
Louis F. Buckley 
6475 N. Sheridan M. 
Chicago, Illinois 60636 

'30 HERE'S TO HOWIE 
TOM BRADLEY, who resides at Southgote, 
Alger Court, Bronxville, NY, filled us in o« • 
couple interesting events out East: 
"HOWARD HOWIE' SMITH was honored at 
a testimonial dinner in June at Mount St. 
Michael's HS in NYC. The occasion marked 
the 30th anniversary of Howie's reign as coach 
and athletic director. There were upwards of 
350 at the dinner, gathered to pay tribute to 
Howie who cultivated his winning techniques 
under the renowned Knute Rockne from '26 to 
'30. Howie was a three-monogram winner ot 
school In football, baseball and hockey. 
"ARTHUR McCANN's son. Rev. Arthur F. X. 
McConn was ordained in St. Patrick's Cathedral 
June 1 and celebrated his first Mass the follow­
ing day." 
ANTHONY FRAINO, who is an attorney 
living In the Bronx, visited the Campus in 
June with his wife and talked with Prof. Louis 
Hasley. 

On a recent visit to Washington I hod a delightful visit and dinner at the Touchdown Club with JOHN GIBBONS ond TIM TOOMEY, those two stalwarts who are protecting oar interests along the Potomac. 
MIKE BISHKO from Clifton, NJ virrote of htt two sons who are now alumni of ND: 
"It was a pleasure to read the lost issues of the ALUMNUS and get news about the men of '30. I am looking forward to the 40th Reunion and will be there—God willing. 
" I hod two boys at ND. Mike Jr recehred his BBA In accounting in '62 and LLB in '65. He passed the NJ Bar and obtained his CPA in NY. John received his BA in economics in '66 and spent one year In graduate school before going to OCS at Newport, R.I. He is an ensign and situated in Vnetnom." 
Tim Toomey wrote obout events and persons related to LARRY MULLINS' death: 
"The sod news of LARRY MULLINS' deoHi was not unexpected. I was oware oil olong of the eventual terminal nature of his illlness. 
"As soon OS I got the news of Moon's death, I wired Mary Mullins assuring her of the humble prayers and heartfelt sympathy of the Class of 1930. 
"Father Jim Rizer instructed me to inform Mary he would offer the ffoly Sacrifice lor spiritual welfare of Larry's soul ot the request of our Class. 
"AltenAng the recent District Qeb I breakfast at Holy Cross Col were X HARVEV DALY '29 his wife and hwely leenoge twin daughters, aiicfionately debbed Daly's Ooablae. 
"The deocon at riie canceleboMd Mass was CHAIHES IICHAID NOWEIY '40 CSC son of Hie lot* JIM NOWEIV '29. Stvevepoit. la. fondly called "The lebel" daring eiidar. graduate doys. Yawig Nowety was ordained June 8 in his natira Shrevepeil. In appre­dotion for his deceased parent's frieoMip with many members ol oor doss. Father promised an early requiem for the JepuileJ msfflbets of the doss. 
"In the 'you or* getting old dept.' PAT CONWAV when coaching at loman Catholic High. Philadelphia had as one of his sqaod members Copt. Jim O'Brien. USN Hie faliier of the brilliant young varsity' quarterback Coley CBrien. 
"Jim Corr. father of the outstanding fresh­man basketball star. Austin Corr. is attached to Sill Wobh's un'it at Hi* Main Navy Mdg. hera in DC 
"KEVIN MOIAN 'O son of John V. of the Boy State Moron's and presently with lobbr Management Pension Services of US labor Depl. tdb me Hie young man is graduating from riie OCTS. Fort Betvoir. Vo. 
"Closs members with suggestions for moling our 4ath leonion the best ever should start making them to yo« and the local committee. 
"As Dean Martin keeps reminding his viewr ers. keep sending in the letters and cords to Devera." 
Prof. Wolter longfbrd has been named to direct the preparation of oar first groep of students who will spend a year 196^70 in Celombio, South America. TMs wiN be the ; fourth group of our iludenls spending tha sophomore year abroad; the others ore at Innsbruck, Angers (France) and Tokyo. 
FRAN MBSICK. trumpet soloist at oil 1f » doss raunions. wrote from his hoow in Bmo­inghom. Midi.: 
"We «r*re in SouHi, Bend this post week-end for Assodotcs Golden Jubilee celebration.. As . a member of the 2S year Qub we poitidpated in the activities and enjoyed o truly great parly. Now riie "big NY fbh" hos swollowed up the "smoller SB fish." 
"Tim Toomey undoubtedly hod a million ­good ideas for yoo on the 1970 reunion. If there is anything I can do please let m* know. To rcolize thot in two years w * will ba celebrofing number 40 just leaves m* nomUl 
"Thonb again, Devere. for your much op­predoted note." 
T. JOHN FOLKS Jl. has been elected Oioir­mon of the Board and Chief Executive ONker of the Nassou Suffolk lumber and Supply Corp. 
Rev. Edward L Heslon CSC worked wirii the head of the Voticon press bureau in Bogota to orgonize press relations for Popa Paul's visit. Fir. Heston also hondled press rdotions for the 
latin  American  Coundl  of  Bishops  which  
followed.  
Devere T. Pfunkett  
O'Shovghnessy  Noll  
Notre Dome. fnd. 4tSS6  

<31 AFRAID OF SULUVAN7 SOSI Due to changes in the ALUMNUS. TOM SULLIVAN, managing editor, hos requested tfiot Qoss secrataries keep doss news ot a ccrtoin moximum number of words. I believe that copies of this correspondence must hove readied the 1931 doss mailing list judging frani H M news recehred in the past several monliis. 
FRANK X. KOSKV did use the tear ool cord. He is planning to reKre in June after 31 years in the Yonkers. NY school system as physical ad­ucotion tcodier and will then mova to Florida. He mentions having seen SB4. FIANK Me-CUllOUGH. H> CUNNINGHAM and JOHN BUINS ot services for our lote dossmoto. IICHIE BAUEI. He would like to hear from FRANK lEAHV. JOE SAVOIDI and FIANK 
CARIDEO. His oddress is 59 Hiiicresf Ave., 
larchmonf, NY 70538. According to a recent 
Chicago news item. 
Fronlc Leoiiy lias become associated with 
Canteen Corp. os assist, to the president end 
will be in charge of new programs which ore 
sports oriented. At the Oklohomo gome I had 
o pleasant visit with ROBERT SULLIVAN ond his son, BILL. The TOM MONAHANS were on the way but ( missed them. Among others present were JOHN WEIBLER, RAY COLLINS, AUSTIN BOYLE and FRED SWINT, who made his first return visit to the Campus in many years. 
HARRY KENNEDY was visiting GEORGE COSTELLO in Chicago and both made the game. RAY COLLINS visited JERRY DESMOND recently and was informed of the passing of GIL GAUDtE in September. In lieu of Masses for the late LAWRENCE A. MULLINS if was re­quested that offerings be made to the MOON MULLINS MEMORIAL TRUST FUND established by him for his three blind-relorded grand­children. On behalf of the Class I have made Q contribution of $100.00 to this worthy cause from the balance in our Class fund. Please send any news you have for our column particularly on ony meeting of classmates at the various games. Best wishes to oil for a Happy Holiday Season. 
James T. Doyle tSST Ridge Ave. Apt. 308 Evonston, III. 60201 

Mike Cauley (right) talks it 
The Hard 
CyOMBlNiNG the stem persistence of TV's Marshal Matt Dillon with the gentle human concern of his sidekick Doc Adams is Mike Cauley's bag and he finds himself in a realm similar to that of the two TV heroes, with one exception — his is real. 
Mike, who matriculated from ND in 1952 and went on to earn an MA from Illinois, spends his time as as­sistant director of Education and head of the Language Arts Depart­ment at the Indiana State Prison at Michigan City. More specifically, he teaches prison inmates high-school courses in English, writing and speech. Many would think his class­room environment a bit unusual but Mike figures his students to be a fairly noi-mal gi-oup. "These men 
•32 TRIMMED BY TOM 
This you won't bclievel I got a note from the managing editor of the ALUMNUS, TOM SUL­LIVAN, saying that oil of our columns were "trimmed" because of lack of space. So if your notes to me weren't in this last issue blame Tom. 
BILL McCORMICK of Cocoo, Fla. took time waiting for the lift-off of Apollo to write to say he returned to the Cape areo in '63 alter build­ing missile sites in Denver. He's now with Boeing Co. Wonts to know "where ore guys like BOB GORMAN, BADEN POWELL ond RAY BOYCE." 
From Dr. PAUL DAILEY, "after dropping off David Kevin Dailey '69 at South Bend, headed south to Kentucky for some fishing. Becoming ill in Louisville, called Dr. HENRY ASMAN who took care. Dr. JOHN KEENEY o(so looked in." 
FRAN OELERICH warned me he will be in NY for o convention in early December. That's go­ing to be o "wet and wild" reunion. Fran says he and Helen got to the Purdue gome and saw TOM MAHAFFEY. He also relotes that JIM IGOE "at on oge most men are retiring, is moving into new multi-million dollar plant with his In­land Lithographing Co." 
HERB GIORGIO also wrote. He went to the Oklahoma game and sow COLEMAN O'SHAU­GHNESSY, LEO SCHIAVONE and PAUL BELDEN. Also sow three Wilsons — Alex, Rev. Jerry and Rev. John "Hock" Wilson. DOM NAPOLITANO gave Herb a tour of the new Athletic Center. 
Regretfully we note the passing of a great guy. 
over vntii iiis pme student. 
Wai/ Up 
know that education is the only way they're ever going to make it on the outside and most of them are eager to learn." 
It would be hard to say which man, in the accompanying picture, is prouder, Mike or the graduate. This man has been in and out of institutions for the past twelve years but Mike thinks he has now broken the chain because of his edu­cational achievement. Three years ago he came to the prison with a second-grade education. Working at his own speed he completed the ele­mentary grade subjects in a year and a half. He enrolled in the federally funded night classes and is now ready for a high-school diploma. He told Mike "I'm just not the same man." 
FRANCIS H. MILLER JR who died Sept. 13th. A Mass for the repose of his soul was celebroled on the Campus Oct. 6th. 
And a note from RAY GEIGER who heard frcr 
CLIFF PRODEHL upon his return from a Europeo: 
jaunt and met VINCE McALOON in Rome 
Sodly we report thol Ray's mother passed owe-
Oct. 1st. We'll remember her in our proyen 
Roy. 
And out of the blue a note from my olt "roomie." Dr. MIKE CRAWFORD who delivered our Maryonn in '54. He urges all of us to CEI Rev. Wm. McAuliffe's "Religion Bulletins" whicl; he compares fovorably with "Pope" O'Hara'i bulletins of our time. 
ROBERT J. HURLEY moved from West Seneco, 
N.Y. to 18 Choote, Buffalo 14220 ond JACK RUDD is not of 230 Joy St. but 300 Jay St., Brooklyn, 
FRANK MARLEY became a grandfather for the first time July 30. Wonder if Frank con get little Christine Dunn on his Christmas cord. 
ED KOLSKI writes that his son Philip is starting his senior year at N.D., and son Gerald, out of Dartmouth, is getting his PhD in chemistry from Purdue then to Cornell for Post-Doctorate Re­search. Ed also mentioned he is making last mortgage payments on his bowling lanes next June. Good luck, Ed. 
TONY CONTI's son Kevin (his Irish mother wouldn't let Tony coll him Popiogalluppi) is in Zahm Hall and when he needs help looks for NAPPY NAPOLITANO. Daughter Mary Anne 
Mike shares the sense of accom­plishment of this student but he knows there is much room for im­provement of the system to which he is devoting his energies. "There's a lot of talk these days on the subject of resocialization or rehabilitation of prison inmates. Yet little progress is actually being made and many people, especially in the field of education, are asking why." 
A robust, sturdy man who gives the impression that he could hold his own in the face of any classroom disor­ders, Cauley feels that if something isn't done "we'll continue to release men — and we eventually release 95 percent of all inmates — who lack the basic skills, attitudes and education to make the adjustment to society." . The Indiana prison commissioner recently tried unsuccessfully to raise funds for an accredited college exten­sion program and Mike was on the bandwagon all the way. He feels that a golden oppoi-tunity has been ignored merely because an unconcerned and unaware public failed to understand that "a dollar spent in educating and resocializing a social misfit is a dollar invested in the welfare of our total society." 
Cauley, the president of the Noti-e Dame Club of Michigan City, also wears a philosophical hat on occasion. "When we begin to behave as though we really believe we are our brother's keepei', perhaps we can make some progress in producing better people who can complement our highly de­veloped society." 
X HAT'S not com either. Mike Cauley comes across as a well-meaning, con­cerned and intelligent guy who puts something where his mouth is—they call it action. 

graduates from Trinity, Washington. Soys AL CAPTER is still leading the local firemen and corresponds with BILL MINARDO, LOU DEL PRETE and HERB WEHRLEN. Tony wonders where ore SMURTHWAITE, TOMASI and GUIF­FRE, the "vanishing Irishers." 
Florence J. McCarlhy 6 River Rood 
Scandah, N.Y. J0583 

'33 SORROW FOR THE 
SCHRADERS 
WILLIAM J. SCHRADER SR. died Oct. 19. Bill 
was born in Lafayette, Ind. and went to 
Phoenix, Ariz, ten years ago. He is survived 
by his wife Rosemary of 3530 W . Montebello, 
Phoenix, two daughters, two sons, ond four 
grandchildren. Please remember our classmate 
in your prayers. 
Rev. JIM DONNELLY, P. O. Box 346. Cop­
peras Cove, Tex. 76552 writes me that he has 
remembered our deceased classmates in his 
prayers and Masses. I om forwarding htm the 
sorrowful news of the deaths of Dick Shiels and 
Bill Schroder. 
My Oklahoma game trip on Sept. 21 was 
pleasant ond fruitful. The first classmate I 
met in the Morris Inn was ED STEPHAN, chair­
man of the University's board of trustees, who 
was just arriving. DR. MARK DONOVAN, also 
ot the Inn, was seen later. JACK KENNEY, 
who missed our 35lh Reunion, hod breakfast 
with me Saturday morning. With him were 
CONAL BYRNE '36 and JOSH D'AMORA '35. 
Bock at the Inn I met ED ECKERT and the 
honorary member of our Class, BILL SPRINGER. 
JACK O'SHAUGHNESSY was (here, greeting 
dignitaries. TOM GRIFFIN was almost over­
looked by me as he was dining near Mayor 
Daley and singer Joe Feeney. 
Later at the gome I sow and talked to 
MARTY MORAN. RED BARRETT caught up with 
me in the game crowd. Red lives in Paris, 
Tex. I learned that LARRY SEXTON and LEO 
MODEL were at the game but missed them. 
Prof. FRANK O'MALLEY '32 kindly invited me 
to the new Faculty Club. I also visited genial 
ED KRAUSE '34 to thank him for his talk at our 
Reunion Class dinner. 
On on Oct. 12 return flight from St. Paul I stopped in Chicago to spend o pleasant weekend with Judge and Mrs. MAURICE W . LEE. The Illinois Supreme Court hod just mode the Judge very happy by sustaining several of his decisions. The Lees' son. Bob, is a first year student in the ND Law School. 
BILL CAMPBELL, pres. of the NY subway alumni is taking o group to the ND-Kings basketball gome at Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Dec. 3. He invites members of the Class of '33 to his headquarters in the Sterling Hotel. 
Rev. MAURICE E. POWERS who was a con­celebront of our Reunion Mass in June is acting chaplain of St. Joe's Hosp. in South Bend. He has also been selected to give the homily on the regular "Mass from Notre Dame" every Sunday on WNDU-TV. Our former Breen medalist, who is getting on inspiring response from viewers, will be on the program until after Christmas. 
Rev. LAWRENCE G. BROESTL was named ossist. vice-pres. for student affairs at ND and Rev. LLOYD TESKE is at the U. of Portland. 
BILL WITTENBURG claims to be "retired in theory." He passes his time as o real estate broker in Beaver Island, SI. James, Mich. With the "some old wife for 38 years" he summers on the island and winters in Florida. Prior to this idyllic life Bill was the chief auditor for the Michigan auditor general. The Beaver Islands ore located in northern Lake Michigan, 32 miles northwest of Charlevoix. Thanks for the literature, Billl 
JACK HOYT writes he sow BILL LYNCH ond GEORGE ROHRS at the Westchester Classic. He soys ED ECKERT, along with others from the Lake Placid summer colony, hosted Arch­bishop Cooke over the Lobor Day weekend. 
In July, Jock attended the installation of his 
friend, the Most Rev. T. Donellon, as successor 
to the Most Rev. PAUL HALLINAN '32 as 
Archbishop of Atlanta. 
A $1,000 annual award for excellence in 
teaching has been established at ND to honor 
Rev. CHARLES SHEEDY who had been dean 
of the Arts and Letters college for 16 yeors 
before his recent appointment to head the ND 
theological program. An anonymous donor set 
up a $25,000 fund to moke the onnuol oward 
possible. Fr. Sheedy is currently on leove at 
Harvard where he is working on organizing 
a consortium of theological institutes. 
JAMES O. KELLY '35, 63 Rodney Place, 
Rockville Centre, NY is trying to get a copy 
of the 1933 Dome. Con anyone help him? 
Charles A. Conley 
100 E. TurnbufI Ave. 
Hoverlown, Po. 19083 

'36 JIM JOGS — TWIG TRIPS Only news of ony consequence for this col. is from JIM PAGLIASOHI, 1220 Bremer Ave., Fresno, Calif. Jim writes: " I was somewhat surprised at our '36 col. being empty, with you at the helm. [Can't write ony col. if t don't get any news.) So I thought I would just pass along what little news is here. We hove a small ND Club with obout nine Alumni our most prominent member being DARYL LAMONICA, Raider QT. At the moment I am walking around on o broken ankle due to a foil while jogging. (Trip over o twig Jim?). Having only four daughters—two married, one 0 beautician and the lost one as Freshman in HS I om waiting for the foil football season to begin. Hope ND has o good year, i hove also been acting as our Senator (oreo) on the Alumni Senate. Attended o meeting in Los Angeles moderated by Dr. Leo Turgeon, Mr. ND of L. A. Quite a guy! Wishes DICK MARTIN, CY CONNORS, BILL SAFFA and others to write and drop a line either to me or Jim." Seems like whenever I hove a bit of news to report I also hove some bad news.' DON ELSER possed owoy Oct. 18. Our phys. ed. Alumni Class is getting smaller and smoller with each passing year. No need to say what a likeable fellow Don was. Hope oil of you will remember Don in your prayers ond Masses. Don't know whether I hod reported the passing of WILLIAM FLANNERY who died lost Aug. 16. Remember your proyers and Masses also for William. Sorry to disappoint you on the shortness of news. In the meantime hope you guys will get real busy and drop me o line or two for future columns. 
Larry Palkovlc 
301 Mechanic Si. 
Orange, NJ . 07050 

•37 HELLO. JOEI 
JOE CROTTY wrote after 30 years — he's a CPA in Worcester — missed the 15th due to a leg operation [loss) ond o European trip inter­fered with the 30th, but JOE has put the 35th down OS o must. PABLO SHEEDY admits age by staying at TV screen instead of making trip to SB for the gomes — son, Mike, is o doctor and mode PABLO a grandfather for the 3rd time. Don't forget to have the prizes lined up for the 35th, Paul. 
Promotion news — FRED WOLTER is director of adv. for Central Soya, Ft. Wayne bosed feed CO. and o 26-year veteran of the feed business. VINCE DeNARDO is a district mgr. of Met. Life and has been oworded the char­tered life underwriter designation. Please re­member in your prayers JOHN RILEY, BSME, who passed owoy in August and we {ust re­ceived word. John formerly lived in Lawrence-burg, Ind., and lately at Newport News, Vo. 
KARL KING and JERRY CLAEYS hove a "plus" report on Reunion finances, but can't get a final report from Alumni ossoc. or acknowledgment 
of finol poymenls. Mode the Navy game and hod to hold lOU AUAMN bock from trying to go on the field to lead the Navy bond since ours didn't moke the trip. LOU hod son, Paul, in company and lou raises them big . . . MATT MclNESNEY and son Mike were also in atten­dance and AAATT brought me up to dote on passing of BILL LYNCH, previously reported. BILL hod 0 real heart problem. FR. JOYCE CSC wos interviewed by your secy as he made his visit to the sidelines for press-radio tolk. Believe i had Fr. JOYCE'S tickets as Box no. 1, on the SO yd. BeHer than I ever did as a fresh­man. I'll be getting another letter from BOB­BY SIEGFRIED offer this preference. How about INSIGHT — two members — PARKER SULLIVAN end PAUL FOLEY. I wrote to THURIN obout putting FOLEY in doss of '38 and he promised equal time to '37. Also in the publication a Classroom shot shows young JERRY CLAEYS in the MBA section, and this CLAEYS is awoke in the class. 
Note thot final touchdown in Iowa gome was scored by our Kerry REARDON of KC EDDIE REARDON, and since scored on NU and OSU. Trip to SB and sow the Pitt gome, froze to death. Saw JOHNNY COYLE and wife at the gome, and DICK FLOOD at the Morris Inn after Dick bought out the boobtore. Note CHUCK NAU's son is ocfive in Campus politics. You remember CHUCK from the fire-cracker Re­union. JOE ZWERS also mode the gome. 
Joseph P. Qumn 
P.O. Box 275, lake lenope Andover, NJ. 07821 

'38 NO COATTAILS, HUBERT This time I was unable to bring Hubert in on my coottoils as i did LBJ in '64. Local voters were willing to return me to the Indiana House of Representatives for o third term but few other Democrats in the stole os the Republicans took over both houses and the Governorship. So I will hove a bit more time to process all the letters you lads will send. Football gomes run-intoes: At the Oklahoma gome I met BILL McNAMARA and wife from Chicogo who sot near LEN SKOGLUND. Missed PAUL ANDERSON from Pittsburgh but found him and his son at my secretary's home. Missed the Purdue game, being in Cleveland for Notional CEF Convo, which was just as well. BUB CROWLEY, the Louisville pharmacist and horsemon called my home. Try ogoin. At Illinois gome I sow HARVEY FOSTER, now American Airlines exec in Chicago, DICK CAR­RIGAN and wife of Chicago and JERRY KANE and wife Mary Kay from Seattle who were here for the Alumni board meeting. Jerry is vice­'pres. of Boeing Internotionol. Visited with Jerry's roommate, TOM BOHEN, in St. Paul, just a few weeks previous on a business trip for woter softeners which I still dispense in between politics. Tom still teaches at St. Thomas CbL ond was active for Gene Mc­Carthy—his wife Cormelo even coming to Indiana on Gene's behalf before the Ind. primary. At the snowy Pitt game—ond did we snow them 56-81—I sot shivering next to DON FISHER and JIM LAHEY, looking in vain for you out of town lads. Politics and a weak stomach will prevent me from seeing the anticipated Geo. Tech slaughter. Rev. JOE RACE acknowledged receiving Mass stipend from our memorial fund and soying Moss for BOB LEONARD. CHARLES "Chuck" DALY'S daughters Holly and Sharon sent in a contribution to our fund. Love those Irish girls! GEORGE A. SMITH Jr was appointed notional sales mgr for lobleware div. of Dirilyfe Co. of America. He did grod work at Stanford ond Harvard and ioined Dirilyte in '57. He is a member of the ND club of Indianapolis. THOMAS J. GRAVES CPA was elected to the governing council of the American Institute of CPAs. Tom is a partner in the San Francisco firm of Hoskins & Sells. 
Hope you noticed the remarks and photos of EDV/AED V/RAPP associate dean of the U. of Chicago grad school of business, and PAUL FOLEY, president of McConn-Erickson Inc. in ND's Insight magazine's special report on busi­ness education. We should be proud of those lads! 
Rev. JOHN F. "Deacon" ANTON has moved to 330 N. Westmore, Villo Pork III. and ALBERT HECKLER, members of whose tribe gave me undeserved attention during the past cam­paign, hos moved to 6679 Mill Ridge Rd. Maumee, Ohio. 
With the football and political season post let's all resume our cultural pursuits and include therein at leost o Christmas cord to ye merry 

ole  secretary—Me.  Merry  Christmas  and  a  
fruitful  1969.  
Rmnie  Zaver  
7139 Western  Ave.  
South Bend, Ind.  46625  

•39 HOP THAT CAR! Car 39 calling . . . Rumor that large gathering senior citizens planned June 1969 outskirts community of South fiend, Indiana at place known as Notre Dame . . . Report stotes will be highly orgonized and will stage March Sot. nite, June 1969 .. . All members mil­itant Class of 1939 urged to participate. Regional organizers will assist. Notify head­quarters your intention . . . Cor 39 out!!! Pres. JIM MOTSCHALL, Vice-Pres. "MOHS" TONELLI, Trees., DAVE MESKILL, Sec. JOE HANNAN soon to meet for initio! planning ond 
to name regional vice-chairmen to stimulate attendance ot your SO-yeor Reunion, June 
1969. FRANCIS H. "BUD" VALLEZ '39 and Tina, daughters Jeanne and Michelle, visited the EMMETT "BILL" BARTONs in Den­ver, Colo., past summer. "Bud" writes from 21291 Modo Ave., Southfield, Mich. MAURICE LEAHY, former "early to bed, late to rise" colled from Morris Inn — sorry Mourie, returned call eor/y next morning, missed you — changed habits on me. Elmira's PAUL DONOVAN, D.C's DICK O'MELIA and your reporter visited together at Novy gome in Philadelphio. Both promised ottendance at Reunion . . . How about oil of you tolking up our 30th. Will have more definitive in­formation next issue — Look forward to hear­ing from y'oll soon. 
Joseph E. Honnon ^39 
'40 BOB. PAM. AND JERRY­STRENGTH TO YOU 
Although I have tried to write this column numerous times, I can only proceed to report the following sad news. My wonderful wife, Mory Lu, passed away in September. She always helped me considerably with this column, so our Closs has lost o most copoble assistant Class secretary. I will not try to describe her great strength and acceptance of God's will, but assure you that the three of us, daughter Pom, son Jerry and myself, ore carrying-on as Mary Lu wished us to do, trying to motch her example of faith, strength and love. 
JOSEPH J. MCDONOUGH OISO passed away in September. Joe was on important man in Cook County, holding the position of Clerk of Circuit Court. He was the Democratic nominee for re-election ot the time of his deoth. He is survived by his widow, Virginia, sons, Joseph and John, and daughters, Mory Grace and Virginia. 
BOB SULLIVAN of Missoula, Mont, suffered the loss of his son DAVID SULLIVAN, class of 1962-63, who was killed in Vietnam. Please remember these loved ones and their families in your daily prayers. 

Hove received only a few notes in the post month, but, at least, I hove some news to report. BILL O'HARE writes, "I'm still teaching at Sotem State Col. here in Mass. and enjoy it thoroughly even as I race toward retire­ment. Our son. Bill 3rd, is now a freshman at ND, and hopefully, will be joined in two 
years by Greg. The privilege of Moss in my 
home has been extended to me. Deo Gratiasl" 
Col. JOHN E. "CHICK" CICCOLHLIA writes 
from the Navy War Col. at Newport, R.I. He 
comments, "Received my first copy of the 
ALUMNUS in years. Service life seems to 
thwart magazine deliveries. After a tour with 
NORAD, I was assigned to the Navy War Col. 
olong with o dozen or so other Air Force Cols. 
The War Col. is a ten month course and 
graduation is June of '69. Please put in a 
plea for word from AL FUNK, DAVE HYDE, BUD 
KOHE, JACK HACKEH, LOU URBANSKI, JACK 
PINDAR, JOE RYAN and other old friends." 
It is good to receive a personal note, 
although there is not much to include in this 
column. DICK AMES wrote that he occasionally 
sees ARTHUR GREGORY '37, JIM HILGER '56 
and LEON ARCHER '29. He is olso looking 
forward to seeing MIKE CORGAN when 
Nebraska plays Colorado. Dick's family is well, 
and he certainly has done a fine job as both 
father and mother to his eight children. 
Please see what you can do with this Class 
column; 1 do need your -help. 
Robert G. Sonford 
233 W. Ctnltol Ay*. 
Lombard, III. «)I48 
'42 A NEW YEAR . . . 
A NEW SPIRIT? 
Received a nice note from DAN CULLINANE 
advising he has received a promotion from 
southern regional mgr. to general soles mgr. 
for Wallace Pharmaceuticals. This means a 
move for Don from Atlanta, Go., bock to the 
home office at Cranbury, N.J. His new address 
will be 28 Buchanan Rd., Metuchen, N.J. Con­
gratulations, Dan, and thanks for the news. 
We deeply regret having to announce th« 
death of one of our classmates, GLEN I . 
PARKS, Sept. 15. Our condolences to his fam­
ily ond we will remember Glen in our prayers 
and Masses. 
News of the Class of '42 has been very scare* 
this post year, so why not get off to a flying 
start for the New Year and let us heor from 
you. Just as we wont to keep that "old fight­
ing spirit," how about a little "writing spiriti" 
Wifliam M. Hickey 
5500 West 73rd Str—t 
Chicago, Iflinois 60638 
'43 MOVE OVER FOR JUNIOR 
BOB PALENCHAR, vice pres and director of 
public relations of Sunbeam Corp., 5400 W. 
Roosevelt Rd., Chicago 60650, writes that his 
son James is a freshman at ND living in Breen-
Phillips. 
JOE CAMPAGNA, Rt. 3, Fowler, Ind., reports that his eldest son, Joe Jr, is now a Novy pilot and son Richard is a freshman in pre-med, re­siding in Dillon Hall. 
JOE JACOBS, 217 W. 8lh St., Rochester, Ind., informs us thot Joe Jr is in his third year in the Col. of Arts and Letters and lives at 1617 Anderson St., South Bend. Joe's daughter Jean graduated from St. Mary's last June and married MIKE O'REILLY '68 in August. 
BILL LOWER, 5758 Rolling Ridge Rd., In­dianapolis 46220, wrote that his son Jim is in his second year in the School of Business residing in Stanford Hall. 
ED HICKEY, 511 University, Grosse Pointe, Mich. 48230, reported seeing TOM FARMER while enrolling Ed's son Brian, a freshman living in 310 Walsh. 
TOM HERLIHY, 385 S. York, Elmhurst, III. 60126, completed 25 years as a professional pilot and is now VP of Frank W. Finnegon & Co., food brokers. Tom Jr is a sophomore in 235 Pangborn, and Norm is a freshmon in 102 Stanford. The six other Herlihy children range from 9 to 17 years of age. 
JIM McELROY, 1124 Tower Rd., Winnetka, 

III. 60093, has a son Steve, a freshma nin 330 Alumni Hall. Jim reports that he met FRH> CHRISTMAN and BOB KING on Campus also 
entering freshmen. Jim has moved his office 
to 360 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago. He attend­
ed the Oklahoma and Purdue gomes but sow 
very few clossmotes. 
DON HELTZEL, pres of Metro Equipment and 
Rental Corp., 460 E. Highlond Rd., Macedonia, 
Ohio 44056, writes that his oldest son, Terry, a 
sophomore, resides ot 309 Keenon Hall and is 
enrolled in the five-year program leading to 
degrees in engineering science and arts and 
letters. The Heltzels' other children ore Susie, 
a freshman ot Immaculate Conception, Wash­
ington D.C., twins in high school, and one in 
kindergarten. Don reports seeing the HANS 
HELLAhJDs and daughter who is a freshman at 
St. Mory's ot the Purdue game. He also met 
the OREN STEINs and three of their children. 
Their son is o Purdue student. The Heltzels plan 
a get-together with the BOB BROWNINGS at 
one of the '69 gomes. 
BILL MIDDENDORF's son. Bill Jr, is a junior 
living at 243 Farley. 
Your secretary saw the Oklahoma, Purdue, 
Northwestern, ond Illinois games and had short 
visits with ED CALLAHAN, PETE MORITZ, HANS 
HELLAND, BILL SULLIVAN (a most gracious host 
with the "toil gate" open), BOB RAFF, JACK 
GRIFFIN, TED BURKE, ED MURRAY, JACK 
WIETHOFF, SAM MOLTER, Rev. GEORGE 
BERNARD, DICK McHUGH '42, TOM POWERS 
'42, PAUL NEVILLE '42, and JIM BRUTZ '42. 
Sam practices law in Kentland, Ind. (50 miles 
east of Chotsworth]; Fr. Bernard, Superior at 
Holy Cross Seminary, Washington D.C., is now 
at Bellormine School of Theology, Jesuit Sem­
inory. North Aurora, 111. 60542. 
KENNETH SCHOEN is an honorary co-chair­
man of the US Marine Corps Bond concert in 
Nashville, o Knights of Columbus project with 
all proceeds going to charity. 
JOHN McHALE has been named pres of the 
Montreal franchise of the Notional Baseball 
League. GENE HILKERT, Rd 1, Wexford Boyne 
Rd., Sewickley, Po. 151433, writes that he hos 
reluctantly moved from New Hampshire to the 
Pittsburgh area with Sincloir-Koppers Co. 
How about o New Year's resolution to keep 
in touch with your poor old secretary? 
Fronk Kaiser 307 Cherry Chatsworth, III. 60921 
'AA RISE AND SHINE IN '69 
Everyone now realizes the precarious predica­
ment in which yours truly was placed when the 
previously published ALUMNUS arrived. For the 
first time in 24 years no column appeared for 
the Class of '44. There should be no similar 
repeat, especially if the members plan to 
"rise and shine in '69." 
To JOHN F. HEAGNEY Rochester, NY the sympathy and prayers of oil '44ers are extended. His wife Lillian died in the summer. 
No word has been received by th* family of Lt. Col. KELLY COOK, missing in action in Vietnam. He wos reported lost just a yeor ago. Recently his wife and family moved from Novoto, Col. to Colorado Springs. Let m hope and pray that o miracle of good news is forthcoming. 
Sr. MARY SHEILA SWEENEY received her PhD from St. Louis U in Latin, Greek and Classical Antiquities. Her thesis was titled "Th* Language of the Roman Missal." 

Dr. HAROLD B. HALEY was promoted to prof, of surgery at Loyola U Stritch School of Medicine. His clinical and research interest is cancer. He also has undertaken a 15 year study involving students of seven medical schools on the development of physicians' attitudes. 
HARRY D. LAVERY has been admitted to partnership in the low firm of Berger, Newmork & Fenchel in Chicago. Former NY supreme court justice WILLIAM B. UWLESS Jr. has been appointed dean of the ND low School. 
In summer on unidentified caller tried to reach yours truly. Weeks later the mystery 
was solved when it was discovered that JOHN 
LYNCH, Framingham, Mass. had a stopover in 
Green Bay en route to upper Michigan. 
JOE GALL, Nashua, N.H. lamented the de­
parture of CLEM CONSTAKTINE for Texas be­
cause the two often compared notes on '44ers. 
Joe hos o son who is a sophomore at West 
Point. Another son plans to apply for admission 
to ND next year. That would bring Joe bock 
to the Campus more often. He plans to be 
on hand for the 2Sth and hopes GENE SLEVIN, 
BOB THUMM, and ED DOWLING make it too. 
BILL BRADY, Bellwood, III. wrote that his son 
is in pre-med at Loyola. He mentioned that 
the Bradys spent a week's vocation in Michigan 
with BILL DUNNE and his family. 
Another welcome letter was received from 
OZZIE DOLAN. It's o real pleasure to find an 
epistle with a Dubuque, Iowa postmark. Ozzie 
looks forword to the 2Sth and hopes to see 
FRANK VIGNOLA, Br. BILL LEVELING, LARRY 
STAHL, TOM SHELLWORTH, VIC COLLETTI, 
JOHN BRIGHT, JOE LANIGAN, CHUCK PAT­
TERSON. BILL SCHEUCH and Br. CY HAYDEN. 
ED SOCHALSKI reported that DAN TOMCIK 
recently moved to Warwick, R.I. where he is 
prod. mgr. at Amperex Electronic Corp. 
A letter was received from TOM O'REILLY, 
Class treos. He mentioned thot ARTIE HOFF­
MAN, DICK DOERMER, JIM KEEPER and he all 
belong to the same congregation in Ft. Wayne 
and that JOHN SLATER also was a member 
prior to his moving to Warsow, Ind. Tom 
expects to see BILL HEALEY, DICK BORGESS, 
FARREIL QUINLAN, BOB O'MALLFY, and BEN 
BRUNETTI ot the 25th. Ironicolly it was Tom's 
nephew, John O'Reilly, Purdue's defensive back, 
who inflicted considerable damage to the IRISH 
cause. 
An unexpected surprise was o long letter from FRANK STUMPF who recently sold his business in Richmond, Va. and "retired" for the second time. Within the past several months he had frequent encounters with fellow '44ers. Among those he saw were JIM MEAGHER whose wife Floy is the first loywomon to serve on the board of trustees of St. Mary's. OMER STURM whose son, a senior at ND, heads the campus radio station. Dr. TOM CONATY specialist in obstetrics in Huntington, W. Va. BILL O'CON­NOR, o road paving materials executive in Harrishurg. JOHN HICKEY, a department store head in Fromingham, Moss. BILL WALDRON whose son. Bill III, is Frank Jr.'s roommate at ND. TOM BRENNAN, a Houston lawyer special­izing in the legal aspects of the oil business. JACK WATTERS, JOE DILLON and LEO BURKE who ore South Bend residents and Dr. JACK UTZ, o fellow Richmondite who serves ot the Medical Col. of Va. He mentioned he also heard about JOHN PRINCE, a furniture mfg. rep. in Jacbonville, Flo. JOE VAN DYKE, BOB FAUGHT, and BOB METZLER who have sons ot ND. ORLANDO BONICELLI who operates o hotel in Chisholm, Minn, and PAT KILEY who lives in Morion, Ind. 
Plans are in the works for the Silver Jubilee Reunion, June 6-7-8, 1969. Detoils will be announced in future issues of the ALUMNUS and through special communications. Recently a Class roster was sent to every •44er. Cor­rections and omissions should be reported promptly to the Alumni office to assure one's receiving 'eleoses which will be pertinent to the 2Sth. May oil '44ers "Rise ond Shine in 
•69." 
Joseph A. Neufe/d P.O. Box 853 Creen Bayt Wisconsin 54305 

•4S U SYMPATHY TO THE SCHAEFFERS 
We were saddened to learn of the death of JAMES W. "RED" SCHAEFFER May 28. An Arh & Letters grad, he was on active iournolist for the Schofostic and was police reporter for South Bend Tribune while in school. Jim was our first class secretary. To his wife, Leona, and 
/. Gerard Boehlmg Jr. '53 Awlhonji E. VaUaee 'SS 
Congrats 
Prof. John S. Tuckey '44 was re­cently honored as the outstanding faculty member on the Purdue Uni­versity campus in Hammond. Long recognized as an authority on Hark Twain's later writings Prof. Tuckey was cited for his contributions in the areas of research, service and aca­demic leadership. 
Theodore S. Weber Jr. '45 is the 
new director of corporate communica­tions for McGraw-Hill, Inc. in New York. He assiunes responsibility for the corporation's internal and exter­nal communications, including public relations, publicity and financial re­lations. 
Walter F. Murphy '50, chairman of Princeton University's department of politics, has been named McCormick Professor of Jurisprudence at the New Jersey institution. The distin­guished chair was named for the in­
ventor, Cyms H. HcConnick, and was originally held by Prudent Woodrow Wilson. 
J. C. Britt '53, former assistant treasurer and 12-year -veteran of the Mead Corporation, has been named secretary-treasurer of the L. H. Berry Co. of Dayton, Ohio. He wiU also serve on the executive committee. 
/. Gerard Boehlmg Jr. '53, director of Marketing Planning for the Aitkin-Kynett Co., has been elected -vice president of the Philadelphia adver­tising agency. He formerly served as vice president and account group manager at Cargill, Wilson and Acree of Richmond, Va. 
Anthony E. VaOaee '55 of the Chemical Bank New York Trust Co. has been named assistant vice presi­dent of the International Division. He has been a member of the bank staif seven years. 
three children, we express the sincere con­dolences of the Class and will offer our prayers for a true ND man and hard worker for his Class. The Schaeffer's address is: 333 East Church St., Hmhurst, III. 60126. 

^^Irishmen^^ Go East 
Rev. J. J. Rozario CSC '58 
9(EMO To: Notre Dame ALUMNUS Readers From: Rev. F. J. Bui-ton CSC— Sec. ND Club of Pakistan Re: The Episcopacy of Roses Within a month after naming one Father Rozario of the archdiocese of Dacca, East Pakistan, to be a bishop. Pope Paul has chosen another Father Rozario of the same archdiocese for a similar post. 
Rev. Michael M. Rozario '53 and Rev. Joachim J. Rozario CSC '58 have more in common than their names. Both priests were bom, four years apart, in the same mission­ary parish, St. Joseph's, in the tiny village of Solepore, East Pakistan, studied for the priesthood at Moreau Seminaiy, Notre Dame, and gradu­ated from that University. They are the only natives of Solepore ever to be ordained to the priesthood and are the first native Pakistanis to head their respective dioceses. 
Bishop Michael did his theological studies at the College for the Propa­gation of the Faith in Rome and was ordained there Dec. 22, 1956. Since ordination he has held assig^nments as editor of the Dacca diocesan news­paper, as first Pakistani rector of Little Flower Seminary, and pastor of St. George's parish, Mariamnagar, East Pakistan. 

Bishop Joachim received his A.B. degree in philosophy from ND in 1958. He spent the next four years at the Foreign Mission Seminary at Holy Cross, Washington, D.C. and was ordained at ND June 6, 1962. One of his assignments has been with the Garo tribe in the northern Mymensingh District in the archdio­cese of Dacca. In that ministry he 
'^TTS 
Rev. M. M. Rozario '53 
became widely known for his aware­ness of the social mission of the Church. He was active in promoting a credit union and in starting a co­operative project for the benefit of faiTners and consumers. Another great interest of the new bishop is the position of the Church in regard to non-Catholics and secular insti­tutions. 
The 115 years of effort that the Congregation of the Holy Cross has put into the difficult mission field in East Bengal is bearing fruit in a rather spectacular way, and ND has its alumni as Ordinaries of three of the four dioceses in East Pakistan. The Most Rev. Theotonitts A. Ganguly CSC '49 heads the arch­diocese of Dacca. Bishop Michael has been appointed to the diocese of Di­najpur and Bishop Joachim to Chit­tagong. 
The diocese of Dinajpur comprises stan, covering over 10,250 square all the northwest comer of East Paki­miles with a total population of 9 million, of whom 22 thousand are Roman Catholic. 

TH E diocese of Dinajpur comprises prises all the southeast comer of East Pakistan, covers over 15,000 square miles, and has a total population of 
13.5million of whom 12 thousand are Roman Catholic. 

With the consecration of Bishop Joachim on Nov. 17 and that of Bishop Michael on Dec. 15 another similar link was forged. Both men had as their co-consecrator Arch­bishop Ganguly, himself once a resi­dent of Moreau Seminary, a graduate of ND, and the first native of Paki­stan to become a bishop. 
BILL WADDINGTON was real kelpful in 
sending in his yellow cord. Bill is now Eastern 
Region Mgr for Volume Feeding Management 
published by Conover-Mast Publications, NYC. 
Their sixth, Timothy Thomas, arrived June 28. 
Their Kothy is a freshman at Cardinal Cushing 
Co., Boston. 
The lote BILL CLEMENCY'S son. Bill, slorted 
at ND OS a freshman in School of Architecture. 
RUDY ANDERSON'S doughter, Mary Jo, is o 
freshman at St. Mary's. 
BOB GRIMES has been transferred from 
Toledo to Terre Haute by Penn-Centrol. 
AL LESMEZ took his nine-year-old son, Arthur, 
to the Purdue Gome and really is singing the 
praises of the new buildings and octivity on 
Campus. Al is looking forward to our 25th 
and is anxious to start "drumming-up" atten­
dance for it. 
PAT FILLEY's son, Kevin, is one of the out­
standing backs in the Southern Tier Athletic 
Conference — ploys for Ithaca High. Pat is 
ossist. athletic director at Cornell. 
On beholf of your Class officers, [ wish you 
the happiness of this holy season and success 
and prosperity in 1969. Also, resolve to send 
some news to your Class secretory. 
F.M. llneham 
P.O. Box 5000 Binghamlon, N.Y. J3902 
•48 "OOPS." BEGONEI 
Your beloved secretary has missed the lost two 
issues of the ALUMNUS. The first miic was c 
complete blank and the lost one was quoted 
as "Oops" and now I'm late and hope this 
mokes it. These new issues roll around fast and 
there ore no reminders like there used to be, 
only o yearly schedule to live by. 
I con safely soy that there hasn't been much 
news coming my way anyway. Hove-heord from 
o
 few stalwarts so we will try to updote the informotion. DON KERSTEN received quite a write-up in the Northern Natural Gas Company quarterly out of Omaha about his "ballooning" 

o
 thousand feet in the air over lowo. Don is one of 40 or 50 "hot oir oeronouts" who take off into the wild blue yonder in a Blue and Gold (of course) balloon that stays aloft for several hours. He has been bobbing around the country in his bolloon ond recently won first prize in the Indionopolis 500 Balloon Race. Don is a lawyer in Fort Dodge, Iowa, and hopes that in 1973 he can come to our Reunion, balloon and oil, for those who wont oir-borne sightseeing trips of the Compus. If. so, there ore o lot of other "hot oir specialists" of balloon and all, for those who wont oir-borne based on what we hove seen ond heard. 


BILL LAWLER out in Rohnert Pork, Calif., is director of publicotions for the Firemons Fund Ins. Co. He hos five children from 7 to 17. WAYNE SCHOTT writes thof he lost his goll bladder while we were Reunionizing; ond sorry he missed it (the Reunion). He is personnel mgr- for the Central Farmers Fertilizer Co. 

Saw FRANK TRIPUCKA of o locol foofboll game being o proud spectator as he watched the fine performance of his son Mark in his old position of quarterback for Bloomfield, NJ . HS. JIM PATTERSON has left Argonne Not'l. Loboratory for Berkeley, Calif, where he will be associated with the Atomic Energy Commission. Says he reolly enjoyed seeing everyone ot the Reunion. BILL HUNTLY is with Goodbody & Co. in R. Lauderdale and lives in Coral Gobies. His son was MVP in his Little League having pitched and won 22 gomes, botled over .500 and hit 18 HR's. (Joke Kline—please note). 
Some of the long-distance moves are: LT. COL. JOE SPINELLI from Arkansas, to Bluffton, Ohio; Dr. LEO LOUCHLIN from Indionopolis to 
Modesto, Calif.; TOM "RED" FOLEY from ST. 
Marys Col., Calif., to Mercy Academy, Red 
Bluff, Calif.; and JOE O'TOOLE from flollywood 
to Los Angeles. 
At the ND-Novy game enjoying if very much 
were JACK COONEY, NEIL KELLY, CASPAR 
URBAN, TOM GREEN, JOE O'BRIEN, GENE 
DEAN, LEO COSTELLO, GEORGE OLVANEY, 
McERLANE, ERNIE RAUSCHER la name a few. 
TOM BROGAN is now with the public rela­
tions dept. of Northern hiardwood & Pine 
Manufacturers Assoc. DR. JOE O'BRIEN is in 
charge of research in plastic films at Rohm & 
Haas Co. in Philadelphia. BEN SHEERAN is 
account exec in the marine trade dept. of Mobil 
Sales and Supply in NYC. 
GENE DEAN is looking to hear from BUNKY 
REGAN, DOM MOFFO, LEO COSTELLO, about 
some unsettled "Reunion Account" from a 
party he hosted. JOHNNY LUJACK hos re­
turned to the TV screen after a five year 
absence and is doing some color on the net­
work college football scene. 
This is it for now. We have no news for the 
next column. It's up to you. 
George J. Keenon 
J77 RoHing Hills Rd. Clifton, New Jersey 07013 

'51 SOMEONE READS USI Apologies to STAN INSLEY whose name was mangled in the lost issue. Another Michigan resident is BILL ANHUT, Mgr. of the Huron Motor Inn in Ypsilanti, Mich. Bill's family includes nine children. Thanks to JACK MORGAN who contributed the information on our Mich­igan friends, and who also found that TOM REAGAN is an Air Force Major presently sta­tioned at the Pentagon. 
BOB CLEMENCY and his family hove moved to 7733 Geroloyne Dr., Wouwofosa, Wise. 53213. Congratulations to JACK BARNETT, just named patent counsel for Aqua-Chem in Mil­waukee. 
TOM BOLAND is now the Ford dealer (B & R 
Ford, Inc.) in Hannibal, Mo. Tom, Mary Jo and 
the family now reside at 7 Patricio Lone, Han­
nibal, Mo. 60431. Tom wants everybody to stop 
in for a good deal on a Ford when we attend 
the Missouri Game in St. Louis on October 17, 
1970. 
JIM SCHMITT and his family hove moved to 4532 Fir Ave., Seal Beach, Calif. 90740. Jim and Diane (Parr), cousin of TOM CARROLL, were married 14 years ago. Their children ore Ed (12), Denise (10), Nancy (8), Mary Lou («), and Charles James, three months old. Jim left 
U.S. Steel six years ago to become a public defender in Los Angeles County. Jim ond family have vacationed with JOE STASCH and his out­fit on a couple of camping trips. 
Gerry KERNS writes from 904 S.E. 94lh Ave., Vancouver, Washington 98664. Gerry reports no classmates in his area, where he has been in the importing business since 1959. Gerry and his wife Potty have two boys and two girls. 
DICK MCCARTHY stopped in after the North­western Game. Dick is with Moser Lumber in Noperville, III. He lives at 397 Colorado St. in Naperville with his wife Marilyn (Zimmer) and their five children. Rich (13), Potty (12), Jeanne (8), Jim (5) and John (4). 
JOHN (Arnie) LANE is o teacher ol Lockport West in Lorkport, III. John married Ginny Mar­shall June 21, 1952. Their son Kevin (15) was at the gome with John. 
BOB NICKODEM married Margaret Moron in 1953 and they live at 632 Greendole Rd., She­boygan, Wise. 53081. Bob is a vice-pres. and trust officer of the Security First Nationol Bonk in Sheboygan. The eight little Nickodems ore Bob, Mike, Kevin, Patrick, Anne, Moyo, Mar­garet and Sheila. 
BOB MAHONEY owns and operates the Hill­side Nursing Home in Yorkville, III. 60560. His address is Box 368, Yorkville. Bob married Doris Ducett and they have four children, Bobby (10), Michael (5), Mary (2) and Kathleen (1). 
MARTY McKEVITT is on aHorney with Davis, Dietch and Ryan of 38 S. Dearborn St., Sirita 753, Chicago, III. 60603. The law keeps Marly sufRciently busy so that he is still single. An­other bachelor who stopped after the gome is CHARLIE CONDON, now a div. enginncr fof the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Co., 1630 Williamson BIdg., Cleveland, Ohio 44114. 
In on attempt to erase his domino.p!aying image, JOE RIGALI went swimming in the mid­dle of Lake Michigan in the middle of the night with only a life jacket ond a Kleene^t brand tissue to protect him from the cold. Joe feeb he has vindicated his youthful reputation. 
Jim Jennings Borg-Womer Corp. 200 S. Michigon Ave. 
Chicago, III. 60604 

'SZ HOLD HltA. JOAN The ^rst annual post-footbol) get together Oct. 12 after the Northwestern game in O'Shaughnessey Hall was headed up by "Boss" PAT NEVILLE. He was accompanied by his wife Joan who helped restrain him from throttling a few of the Sl'ers, who were bent on taking over our room and beverages. The turn out included GERRY CASHMAN ond DICK RECKER, o couple of insurance tycoons. Rev. BILL TOOHEY lent a note of dignity to the proceedings. 
FRANK ROUSE and his wife SHIRLEY came in from Kazoo. GERRY MURPHY who claims the highest settlement in Cook County was there. JIM O'NEIL buzzed in from Ohio. Flying in from Omaha, Neb. was COL. WM . F. DE­LANEY. Bill had some great toles about his visits oil over the world. He was especially fond of Spain. Bill is now serving with the SAC Command in Nebraska. It was o real pleasant weekend and a chance to swap old tales. 
GEORGE BROWN arrived a couple of weeks earlier in time for the Purdue game. He gave us a complete tour of the University Club where he is serving on the boord of directors. It's 
o place you wouldn't want to miss. TED WOLLMERS is now working as a detail salesman for EnDo Medical Products here in the Michiono area. He and his wife Margery hove four children ages 9 to 14. Ted is out there hitting all of those doctors' offices, and helping to keep No. Indiana healthy. WILLIAM J. STAPLETON writes from East Lansing, Mich, that he is in law practice and a partner in the firm of Leighton Andrews Sfopleton and Harmon. Bill graduated from Michigan low school in '55. His wife Joan 
and he hove four children 7 through 13. ROBERT J. KAPISH has joined the William 
T. Earls General Agency in Cncinnati, He is representing the Mutual Benefit Life Ins. Co. 
JAMES R. KELLY has joined Nekoosa-Edwards Paper Co. as ossoc. manager of labor rela­tions. 
JACK HYNES who is a newscaster for WHDH in Boston has been cited by the Boston Guild for the Hard of Hearing as the "local TV newscaster with the clearest speech." He was selected for the honor by hundreds of New England residents, oil with vorying degrees of hearing diificulties, who voted by written ballot for their favorite newsman. 
Wilfiom B. King 613 E. Oonmoyer Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46614 

•53 SORRY ABOUT THAT. JERRY 
Due to space restrictions port of my tost column was cut out; doubtless many of you were as confused as I was trying to figure it out. The last part was a letter from JERRY MULVIHILL. Now for some news about our clossmotes: 
CHARLES J. BILLERBECK has been promoted to group leader in the process design and economics div. of the Amoco Chemical Re­search in Whiting, Ind. He will supervise 
chemical engincen in the design of new chem­
ical processes. 
CATT. ALBOrr G . MUEGGE has graduated 
from the Air Force's advanced Iroining course 
ior communications electronics officers at Kccsler 
AfB., Miss. He is assigned to Wheeler AfB. 
Howoii with Air Force Logistics Command. 
It. Col. promotions hove recently been given to 
TOM SCHWIETZ '54 ond BlU DEIANEY '53 at 
the Strategic Air Command Bos* in Offutt, 
Nebraska. 

Vcty sorry to leom of the death of the 
father of PAUL D. BALLING in June; be sure 
to remember him in your Mosses and prayers. 
July 18 The South Bend Tribune carried a 
story onnouncing that our classmate JERRY 
HAMMES hod been elected pres. of on educa­
tional television station (non-profit]. Sounds 
like a worthwhile project, Jerry. 
RICHARD G. SCHREITMUELLER has been advanced to associate actuary, group division, at Aetna Life t Casualty. Nice to hear DICK is doing OK. The only guy I ever met with a more difficult name than mine. How many master points do you hove now, Dick? 
Heard from a long lost classmate, J. R. O'LAUGHLIN (21 Musket Trail, Simsbury, Conn.): "Most loyal '53 graduates will faint ot my reporting in to you since I've never done so thus far. In my wide travels I in­variably cross the path of some classmates. Something wonderful has happened to one of our classmates. Rev. MICHAEL M. ROZARIO. He has been nomed Bishop of Oinojpur (Pakistan). I'm sure this nevrs will be covered elsewhere in the ALUMNUS but I wanted you to share with me in sending our best wishes to our new Bishop. Incidentally, I heard about this from the ND Club of Pakistan—how's that for a correspondent! 
Heard from W . F. Ahem Jr. (One Main St., Kings Pork, NY): "Hnolly, after 15 years I find myself writing a long overdue note. Really sorry I missed the reunion, I am married— four children—lawyer—self-employed as one of a vanishing breed: G.P. Don't see many ND'ers except GERRY SMITH '54 and SPIKE RILEY '55. Please give my best to oil ND friends that I haven't seen these many years." Thanks, Bill. Dr. LARRY SULLIVAN also checked in: "This is the first time I've ever written. After two years in the Army I went to grod school at the U. of Michigan and'received o PhD in physiology in '59. Now at U. of Kansas Med School—ossoc. prof. Married in '55 and now hove three children. (Lorry's address: Dept. of Physiology, U. of Konsos Medical Center, Kansas Cty, Ko. 66103). 
Here's a short but nice note from TIM CAIN 841 Logan St., Pittsburgh, Pa.: I wont to thank BOB BENSON. GERRY CASHMAN, JOHN MC­CORMICK, NORB LEWINSKI and the crew for their charity to me and forbearance with me during the mental state I went through follow­ing mot. surgery, i will always remember all of them in my prayers." Nice to heor of good deeds. 
Still have a few yellow cords I'll gel in next issue. Writel 
Waller F. (Bud) Stuhfdreher 11006 Jean Rood, S.E. Huntsville, Alabama 35803 

•54 93 BENT ELBOWS We hod a record turnout for our annual reunion party after the Oklahoma gome this fall with 93 of our classmates bending elbows for o few wonderful hours. We'll do it again next year, OS usual after the first home game, only this time we'll move to a larger location so be alert. Thanb again to DICK PILGER and GENE HENRY. "Rossie Recall" Pg 7, Oct.-Nov. ALUMNUS restores my faith in ot least 1600 of today's ND students. It's about time the students who love their university stand up and let it be known. 
Personally I'd like to see some permissiveness substituted with a little just anger and possibly 
Eddie Shipstad enjoying his place. 
Makitig His Mark 
Tw o famous names in the world of ice skating became linked this sum­mer when Eddie J. Shipstad '59 was appointed managing director of the Broadmoor World Arena in Colorado Springs. 
It must be ice water that flows in those veins. "Skating has certainly been good to our family," Shipstad says, "and because of my father 
(Eddie H.), his business partner Oscar Johnson and his brother Roy Shipstad and the fact that their dream of an all-professional traveling ice show came tnie, I was able to attend the university of my choice, the imiversity of Our Lady, and have a wonderful life." 
Eddie considers himself a non-skating Shipstad (at least profes­sionally) but his wife Beverly was in the family's Ice Follies four years before that competitor, Dan Cupid, struck. Now there are three little skaters, too. Also, one of Eddie's brothers is production director while the other owns a ski shop in Encino, Cal. 
Eddie worked two summers while he was at ND as an executive assis­tant to his uncle, Ray Heim, Follies company manager. After graduation he joined the Follies full time until 1962 when he went to the U. of San Francisco to get his master's in polit­ical science. Because of illness, he left the Follies then and went into teaching and coaching in California. 
He feels his work in teaching, coaching and Ice Follies—^and even his master's in political science—will 
2S benefit him in his new post. He ex­plains: "My position requires that I be aware of political situations and diplomatic negotiations that are re­quired to facilitate getting competi­tors or teams from all over the world to participate in many of the Broad­moor's fine sporting activities. This December we are presenting our an­nual world hockey tournament which includes teams from both Eastern and Western Europe. Negotiations are being carried on now with the hopes of g:etting the USSR hockey team. 
T^His summer, with the turmoil in Eastern Europe, we had concurrently as guests at the Broadmoor the Head of All Sports in Russia and the Czechoslovakian golf team which was participating in our world golf tour­nament. I think you can see that the Broadmoor Hotel and its staff must be more than casually attuned to and familiar with diplomatic rela­tions and foreign activities." 
Besides the pseudo-cloak-and­dagger stuff, Shipstad is looking forward to some fun, too. There's an annual reunion luncheon of Ice Follies members at the Broadmoor and this year the NCAA hockey championship is being hosted by the nearby Air Force Academy and the championship game will be played at the Broadmoor. Then, too, there might be some more short-skirted skaters like Olympian Peggy Fleming, perhaps the most famous of the trained - at - the - Broadmoor skaters. Now the ^rls will swirl under a pair of trained and watchful Irish eyes. 
the point of a size 10 shoe. So much for the dummy! Bumped into BOB JOSEPH in front of Alumni Hall. Bob hasn't changed a bit and looked great. We intended to meet him for dinner at JOHN LATTNER'S new restaurant in Chi. But by 7 o'cloci; the flu bug had taken its toll. Another roclc-ball buddy I hadn't see since graduation was JOHN McCANN from Tulsa. John and his wife, a demorolized Oklahoma Alumnae, hove three boys and a girl. John is with North American Rockwell. PAUL MARRONE: Call BOB FARNBAUCH. MIKE CELESTE still owns and runs the Foyetteville Bowl in Syracuse, NV. Mike offers free games for all classmates. Donna and JOE JOYCE ore expecting their third child in April. JACK NASHERT had ND plus 21 points against Oklahoma from an O.U. buddy. Jock is still in the construction business in Oklahoma City. BILL MEYER 19715 Frozier Dr., Rocky River, Ohio wonts to arrange a charter bus trip to our IS yr. Reunion in June for all mid-Ohio reunion goers. Call or write! Great idea! Leave the driving to Greyhound and get o head start on the merry making. 
BOB WRIGHT was at the party with wife Jane and her look-alike sister trying to confuse everyone. It didn't work! In a previous article I reported that Major CHARLIE SPICKA was in Thailand. Since then he and Verno showed up at our reunion party and then again at my place where we watched with tearful eyes the MSU-ND gome. But now Charlie really is in Thailand flying combot missions to Vietnam. JOE COOK called from the St. Louis oirport in between plones. Joe is recruiting for Hunt-Wesson and lives in Fullerton, Calif. Joe and his bride have a boy and o girl. Other bad guys who hove visited St. Louis without calling their secretary include JIM "THE BERN," "What? They're out of beer again," BERN­HART and BILL MORLEY. 
That's it. Gang. I've got some yellow cords I'll save till next time. Plan now for our 15lh in June. 
Class Party Registronts: GEORGE PFLAUM, JIM DASCHBACH, GENE HOWLEY. TONY MAN­DOLIN!, DICK MARTIN, DICK O'HORD, PETE BUCHEIT, JERRY KEATING, BUNKY O'CON­NOR, JIM BUCKENMYER, DAN MUNSON, MARTY TUCK, TIM O'HARA, BOB PODEN, JOE JOYCE, TOM KING, JOHN POIRIER, BOB ETTELBRICK, NED GRIFFIN, ED SEIM, TOM MOORE, Rev. JOE NASH, BOB WRIGHT, DICK SULLIVAN, BOB BLOOM, JOHN J. SMITH, DICK PILGER, DICK EHR, ED IWAWSKI, DAVE FOY, BOB FARNBAUCH, DICK CASTELLINI, DICK ANTON, JIM McCOMB, Bill CAVA­NAUGH, JIM LOONAN, JACK hJASHERT, CHAS. ALLEN, ROCK MORRISSEY, BOB KROP, BILL MORLEY, A. C. lAPASSO, CHAR­LIE SPICKA, HERM KRIEGSHAUSER, BOB FRIES, PAUL KRAUS, ED MRAZ. JOHN KELSCH, JOHN TRUCANO, ED MADIGAN, JOHN BIERBUSSE, WALT DUSCHKA, JIM /MAYER, LEO MICHUDA, BILL MEYER, PAUL KELLY, WALT WAGNER, CHUCK ONEIL, PAUL TIERNEY, LOU MARLIN, MIKE CELESTE, BILL KIRSCH, DICK McKAY, JACK PITTAS, ED BROWN, JACK LIBERT, JOHN REIDY, GENE HENRY, TOM DEMPSEY, JIM STUBLER, KEN MELCHOIR, JIM BERNHART, MIKE lAUGHLIN, JOHN DARAGO, TOM MURPHY, BOB JOSEPH, BOB PAHERSON, JOHN CAN­NON, JOHN WEIGAND, STEVE STECKBECK, BILL REYNOLDS, RICH HOHMAN, BOB HOW­ARD, TOM McKEON, J. MORAN, DIOC RYAL, LEROY BAZANY, JOHN SCHLOEGEl. JOHN DILLON, BOB INEICH, JOE SASSANO, JOHN BAUMGARTEN and assorted guys with very poor handwriting and myself. 
Milt 1. Baaudlne 
21 Signal Hill Blvd. 
£. St. Louh, Illinois 

'S5 COUN-HNG THE KIDS 
Although Leroy Keyes dampened our spirits somewhat, the group that packed the Shamrock 
Room after the gome snapped back quickly. DICK CONDIT (24729 Mulberry, Soufhfleld, Mich.), an attorney, reported that he attempted to keep MIKE HEGARTY out of trouble over the weekend "but foiled." Dick ond Martha hove four boys. Mike (17610 Porkside, Detroit) is mgr. of the Porritt and Hegarty organization. He and Jane hove two boys. 
As most of us know, favorers are overpaid, 
which moy account for a flock of them showing 
up for the gome and Reunion from all ports of 
the country. JOE DALEY (28 Idlewild Lone, Mat­
owon, N.J.) had the wildest story. He learned 
during the game that Margaret Mary, his 7­
year-old, hod broken her collarbone bock 
home. While wife Edwino was shook, the troops 
advhed her to look at the brighter side—noth­
ing had happened to the three boys! Joe works 
under John Mitchell, Richord Nixon's law part­
ner who directed the campaign. Joe's old po­
litical crony, JOHN CORBETT O'MEARA (1470 
Iroquois, Detroit) was an hand with wife. Penny. 
They have four children. DICK DONAHUE (1016 
Highland Ave., Lafayette, Ind.) and wife Sheila 
hove a girl and boy. BERNIE MC CLOREY (34919 
Wood Dr., Livonia, Mich.) was busting with news 
about his twins (numbers 4 and 5) born July 26. 
TOM HARTZELL [62 Lownsdowne Lane, Ro­
chester, N.Y.) who has four children, said that 
his old roommate, DAN WILSON, has moved 
to Timonium, Md. and has seven children. He 
wants to know if Mike Word still holds the Class 
record for ofhpring. Let's hear from those of 
you who moke the IRS frown. 
BOB GERVAIS and FRANK BURGE took the 
long distance award. Frank (328 Bochmon, Los 
Gotos, Coilf.) is sales manager for Foirchild 
Camera. He has two girls and a boy. Bob (3219 
Rosewood Ave., West Los Angeles), who travels 
o lot (?) for McDonnell Corp. has seven children! 
Others who mode their way in from distant points included: BERNIE TRACEY (44 Longspur Rd., Yonkers, N.Y.). IBM's notional account mgr. for Sinclair Oil, who has four children including a new baby boy . . . LOU MONTEIL (3517 Phelps Rd., Independence, Mo.) who manages the family store, also manages to stay single . . . DAVE HAGANS (195 Sinsbury Dr., Worthington, O.) a plant engineer for Western Electric Co. who has five children .. . ED PREIN (4991 Bluff, N. E. Grand Rapids, Mich.) secretary of the consulting engineering firm of Williams and Worb, has a girl and boy. 
From the intellectual set we had DAN SUL­LIVAN (220 Wendover Dr., Princeton, NJ.) o psychologist-writer, who has five children. . . STEVE SURBROOK (18064 Fenmore, Detroit) o teacher with four children, who came to the game with JIM STEVENS, popular realtor and his wife Barbara .. . and JIM PORCARI [150 Navarre Rd. Rochester, N.Y.) executive director of the Metropolian Rochester Foundation. Jim has three boys and two girls. 
ROY BELKNAP (967 Dursley Rd., Bloomfield Hills, Mich.) who has five children, recently was named a director and vice-pres for soles and marketing of Morontelte & Co., an invest­ment securities firm. Lcdr C. A. BENNETT (433 Fern Dr., Clearfield, Utah) who is officer in charge of the Novo! Oceonographic Distribution ofBce there has three children. FRANK CLELAND (1109 E. 768th PI., South Holland, III.) a pilot in the friendly skies of United has two future bacb for Aro. Old Faithful DICK GAUTHIER (9027 Porrish Ave., Highland, Ind.) vice-pres of the Bank of Lansing has five children. Proud Popo JOHN WEITHERS (1355 N. Sondburg, Chicago) of Midwest Stock Exchange fame was on hand to talk about John Henry, born July 3. TOM GRODEN and his wife Liz were wait­ing for their coll from Catholic Charities and were talking to us about the excite­ment of adoption. Well, they got their coll ihe following Monday! Thomos Joseph Croden was born Sept. 11. Incidentally, Big Tom now is regionol soles mgr. of the analytical systems div. for Bausch & Lomb. 
Others on top (no pun intended] were STEVE 
REBORA, FRANK LOLLI, LOU ZEFRAN, BOB BREZENSKI, JIM CAHILL, BOB ARRIX, JACK RIVARD, JOE SWIFT, JIM BARRY. RON SMITH. JOHN HESTER, GEORGE VOSMICK. FRED MAN­GILARDI, BILL MOONEY, J. F. BATTEL, JACK FLYNN, GEORGE SHELTON, RON AUER. JERRY PRASSAS, JIM GRIFFIN, and JERRY BRANS­FIELD. MIKE KELLY announced that the first 1969 meeting of Chicago's Orgonizotion *55 would be held at Johnny Lottner's Marina Cly effl­porium Jon. 22. 
Again, we end on a note of sodness. Capt. 
ED SCHNEIDER died suddenly Oct. 24. Formerly 
a Chicago area resident, Ed hod been living in 
Roncho Cordova, Colif. 
Paul Fulffflcr 
7922 Lorkdofe Dr. Gfenview, III. 60025 

'55L. TUNE IN ON DAVE DAVE McBRIDE, a partner in the firm of Ross, Hardies, O'Keefe, Bobcock, McDugold & Parsons, of Chicago, has been busy these post years speechmaking all over the continental US. Dave, who has become an expert in the field of zoning, recently spoke at the Notional Associo­tion of Homebuilders, the Southwestern Legal Foundation, the American Society of Planning Officials, and Aug. 1 spoke before the Annual American Bar Association meeting in Honolulu on "Land Use Controls." In addition, Dave has published several papers over the post ten years and is well on his way to becoming an outhority in his field. 
Fellow Clevelander, DICK MILLER, formerly on assistant county prosecutor, is now managing partner of the firm of Miller and Miller. Dick is active as on officer or director of twelve local companies and is currently president of Cleveland Broadcasting, Inc., which owns ond operates six radio stations in Cleveland, San­dusky and Los Angeles. The company at present is in the process of a sole to Atlantic States Industries for a cool $9 million. Local alumni affairs hove also kept Dick busy, having served OS president in *64 and as a director ever since. 
JACK COYNE, a member of the firm of Bremer, Thompson, Morhord & Coyne, has been specializing in savings and loon association matters for the post 10 years. He was recently honored by the Cleveland Club of ND for his ten years as permanent alumni secretory to the Club. In addition to his legal duties Jack is a co-owner of o parking enterprise in Cleveland, which owns and operates 32 parking garages and lots. 
I wish to announce that CHARLIE SHEERIN has formed a partnership with Tosso H. Coin under the firm of Coin and Sheerin in Chicago. 
John P. Coyne 
370 National City Bank tidg. Cleveland, Ohio 44114 

'56 LADIES. GOING TO 
ILLIOPOLIS? JOE DONOVAN [ourneyed to Chicago in November for a weekend visit with the JIM REVEORD family. Joe is still farming the family land in llliopolis [near Springfield), III. and remains the county's leading eligible bachelor. Rosemary and TOM KELLY ore oc­cupying o new-old house in Peoria as Tom's real estate soles success continues (410 W . Maywood, Peoria, III.). Roe and RENO MASINI moved to Morton Grove, III. in late October. Reno's Allipio's Restaurant spon­sored o trip to the ND-Pitt game—a greot success! I hod the opportunity to visit with two of our successful Chevrolet dealers in Detroit, BILL MARCKLEV CHEVROLET ond in Josper. Ind. PAUL UEBELHOR & Son Motor Co. Both ore doing well and Paul reported that his son was born on his birthday this post year. 
Our sympothy goes to the BOB WELSH family in Gory, Ind. Bob's father passed owoy this October. Rev. MIKE MOONEY and several other classmates attended the woke. Father Mike offered the Mass for Mr. Welsh from our Ooss. Doctor JOE "MOOSE" O'CONNOR hos coeipleled his militory service and is bock in Evonston's St. Francis Hosp. according to Chicago area Class scaetory DON CARLIN. Den also reports that Charlie Pope '56 has left his loop low practice ond is on active duty in Vietnom with the novel reserve. 
A great visit in October with MIKE MAL­
lARDI at Ihe Waldorf in NYC. He is general 
mgr. with the Strauss Broadcasting Corp. in 
NY C Mike, his lovely wife Sylvia, and two 
children live at 10 Chornwood Dr. in Suffern. 
NY. Another NYC trip got HAL SPENCER and 
me to Cattleman's for dinner. Hall is ossis. vice-
pres. at Loeb. Rhoades & Co., 42 Wall Street. 
He and his family are living on Long Island 
and thoroughly en'ioy Ihe easlem octivily. He 
reports that JOE KEENAN is with Dun & Brod-
street in E. Orange, NJ . and wos married 
to lorroine this post May. They live in 
CoMwell, NJ . TONY SUVA came f^om Port­
lond, Maine .to join in the Keenon wedding 
festivities. JERRY MASSEY and family spent the 
lost few days of their summer vocation with 
the Spencers. Jerry is a professor of philosophy 
at Michigon State. Dr. JIM MASSEY reported 
at the Pitt gome that his Codex Co. stock went 
public on Dec 1 against Hall Spencer's advice. 
MERRY CHRISTMAS TO ALU 
John F. A4onion 
726 Forest Rd. loGronge Park, III, 

'57 ART FOR ARTS SAKE (?) Many thonb to Class treos. and official host JOHN BARANY for the great job in organizing our party ofter the Illinois game. For those who missed it, the reunion was held at o bar set outdoors in the midst of a modem art exhibit on Campus. Some Class! Those that I con recall being on the scene were: TOM RILEY, STEVE O'DONNELl, BUI "RED" RYDER, HUGH ODONNELL, JIM MILOTA, DENNIS TROESTER, SI WOODY, BILL MC GOWAN, MANNY RIVAS, JERRY THIES. DON GIBBS, FRANK STANITZEK, PETE NOZNESKY ond STU RICHARDSON. It was certainly great to see Frank Stanizek ogoin who advised me thai this was his first return to the Campus since graduation. Frank and spouse ore expecting number seven soon. Frank is operating a meat and grocery store in Grand Rapids. He promised to return more often. 
PETE NOZNESKY reports a daughter born 
September, making it number one. 
I hod o great visit with JOE REICH and his 
lovely wife and friends in Chicago on their way 
to the Oklahoma game. What ihe hippies 
couldn't do to Chicago, Joe and I did. Joe re­
ports that he has run into ED SHIPSTAD who 
now monoges the Broadmoor World Arena Ice 
Rink in Denver. JOHN Mc MEEL and JOE NEU­
HOFF were to make the gome and met up with 
the Reichs. 
John McMeel reports from N.Y. that the second annuel Class picnic took place with 23 swingers on the scene including RAY NELSON, JERRY BECKERT, JACK CASEY, JULES AUGUS­DORFER, JIM HERRINGS, ED KB^NANS, GEORGE WINKIERS, MIKE Mc GATNEYS, FRANK ATKINSONS and BOB LONCHARICH. The touch football score was undisclosed and I suspect the kids won. 
RAY DE SITTER reports from Atheo, Ind. that he had a visit with the PAT WILLAMSONS this post summer. Pat is in Ihe picture frame mold­ing business in Mt. Vernon, III. 
TOM McMURTRY writes from Lancaster, Calif, that he is with NASA at Edvrards Air Feree Base and thot his wife gave birth to their first child, o son, in September. JACK COGAN is with the Lily-Tulip Cup Corp. at Holmdel, N.J. 
OS Div. Mgr. of the Plastics Dept. GERRY SNYDER reports in after 11 years from Buffalo where he rs manufacturing fuel tanks and bleaches. His second child is expected soon. Write ogain, Gerry! 
Mary Reiger writes that spouse JOE REIGER is monaging Ihe Seymour, Ind. Sears Store. The 
29 

Reigers now hove four children, three going to St. Mary's someday. 
MARTIN MULIALLY is in private medico! practice in Boulder Col. after Army and U. of Mich. Med School. 
PAUL HEER writes out of Noshville that he is with a Securities firm there in the investment banking business. 
Nice note from PHIL ABBOTT in Son Francisco. One of his greatest accomplishments being that he is still single—lucky one! He is Pres. of Ap­plied Concept Corp. 
DAVE HAND hos storied his radiology re­sidency at New England Med Center in Boston. He and wife Coroie have four children and num­ber five is due. JIM WALSH is leaving the U of Colo, in Jon. ond will enter private practice of radiology in Neptune, N.J. 
Another lawyer and now professor, TOM NEWHOUSE, reports that he is on the U. of Houston law Foculty teoching lobor and family low (they seem to go together].. Tom hos an 
LL.M. from NYU. The Newhouses hove two sons. 
The GEORGE GROBLES ore proud to an­nounce the birth of o doughter who mokes number five. Along with a new house, Rrst Communion, football gomes and baptisms, No­vember has been a rough month for us. 
Keep those cards and letters coming, folks. 
George W. Grofa/e 
j; i W. Washington St. Chicago, III. 60602 

•60 EDITOR'S NOTE: NO EDITING 
Ah! I intended never never to grow old Listen: New Year's Bell! Now hear this! The previous column was twice 05 good originally. This correspondent is now investigating the editing! Further information next issue! As long as we're on that tack COSSACCHl's a fink! Anyone else? Get rid of it now so you con start the new one with o clean mind—that is if you're so inclined. CAR­RETTA, skiing this year? DILLING? HEAR WE GO A'CAROLING: Actually, it was drinking at the Reunion. Top billing goes to the two out of seventy-five who hove corresponded. ART KANERVIKO & Madeline, newlyweds in June, Syracuse LLB '63 and two yrs. Armor at 
Celnhausen (GesundheitlJ Germany,XO;Bn.Adi; Bde Adj. Presently, limping—broken knee cop, touch football(old age)—^with Costello, Cooney, 6 Feoron. MIKE DALZELL, mgr. of Glendole (Indpls) office of Thomson & McKinnon NYSE after six yrs. with them in Anderson, Ind. Botching it with Dr. TOM MORAN, Ind. Med­ical, two yrs war, now gen. prac. in South-port. 
And the rest—JIM STUCKO & Mary, dashing ofter a quick one, for a free dinner-relatives! Pedersen & Houpt of Chi. use his briefs. JOHN REISERT was happy everyone could be there to see him. McALLlSTER called him at three 
A.M. one week so John returned the call the next Saturday! JOHN CHRISTEN of Marshall, Botmon, Day & Swango, Terre Haute (Boyh & Co.) for the 2nd successive year helped close! Recently honored by Fr. Hesburgh as his personal repr. at Valparaiso U. ceremonies. A friend of his by the name of . . oh . . baseball cop . . er . . MIKE KEARNS |& Linda Lovely) didn't moke it. He hod to drive the old Turner bus bock home to the southland. TOM GROJEAN vp. finance. Flying Tiger Line L.A. & frou also helped end it oil in the new faculty rathskeller lounge (& bar!) 
IT'S the MOST WONDERFUL TIME OF THE YEAR: Even though TOM RINI didn't make it after, he looked like the old self at Gate 14. Great people still hung over from Tiger Town WARREN BAKER & Caryle. GEORGE GOOD­WIN & Mrs. he's a little thicker in the middle and thinner on top. Nice chat with JERRY DELAY & Borlj—^theirs is o beautiful love story. JOHN YOST looking like an od from Esquire. And then there was PAT CREADON & friend Carol, in her new leather outfit-Wow! TOM 
MARTIN—"Where's CRONIN?" For Auld Long 
Syne were TOLANDs, PHELANs, MARSHAILS, lA-
MONTAGNE, TOM MARCHARA, JOHN McGEE 
& BILL KELLYs [Sara Mulrey) plus JOHN 
BYRNES & Ann. 
THREE KINGS of ORIEt>4T ARE: HOWIE FOLEY 

& Mary Lou popped in from Poughkeepsie, going 
to Cinn.? to join area Pres. DREW BARTON 
& AnnlLord) & vp. LARRY KYTEs|Betsy's brother). 
With apologies to those missed we close with 
the Major SKIP SULLIVANs at Dayton U. 
R.O.T.C. and BOB FITZSIMMONS (Clare) who together with Howie mokes a grey head! 
WHAT CHILD IS THIS: GERRY WELLING & 

Pat, Kristin Marie-June (LEO PHILIPPE teaching 
French at ND.) LEN MRACHEK number one son 
John Patrick Sept. (to join Jacqueline & Susan) 
second year moth instr. at St. Paul Tech. & 
Vocational Inst., Minn., as head of the depti 
Co-authored tech. school moth text to be pub­
lished by McGraw-Hill. JIM HUHON, first 
girl-Nov with two boys, tax field partner with 
Valporoiso CPA firm of Dogon Roby Co., after 
three years. IRS & two yrs. USA. 
SILVER BELLS: BOB SIMPSON(& Lynn)MBA 

Rutgers, " . . . N.Y.C. Area Marketing Program 
for Stanford Research Inst. Newly odoped 
Joseph Anthony eighteen months ond growing." 

KEITH HAUGE & Nancy (Stephanie one yr.) bock 
with Charlie the Tuna as Ass't. to the Pres. 
(whot else!) in Portuguese Bend, Calif. LESER 
will contact. TONY INDENCE, Sil, Oaklond, 
private practice after Judge Ad. for USA, olong 
with Helen(Corcoran) & Cristina. FRANKLIN 
BOHLEN & Elisabeth (Pope) at M.I.T. for PHI 
in Oceanography (I'll buy that I) 
IT CAME UPON A MIDNITE CLEAR: BUD FRANZ(& Angle) now Ass't. Sec. of Trust Dept. Northern Trust Bank, Chgo. BERNIE ALLARD's Ruth reports from Deerfield, III. MBA Carnegie Mellon U., Mgmt. consultant for Booz, Allen & Hamilton, after six yrs. Autonetics in Calif. Michelle, Mary Margaret, Greg & Lisa to be 
fed. 
WE WISH YOU A MERRY XMAS: WALT DALY 

& Morion, Cathy, Barbara, Margaret, Paul, John 
(& in memoriom, Thomas Gregory, 7, — who 
will hove the best of all). JIM HARRINGTON 
& Ruth till next issue due to current editorial 
policy. Landfall, N.J., wherever it is. 
DANCE OF THE SUGAR PLUM FAIRY: Christ 

was not born in the USA; 800 million Chinese 
ore not a figment of your imagination; all 
Americans do not eat apple pie! Don't forget 
old Santo Fraud I Thanks to oil for the 
greeting cords (both of them]! 
TWELVE DAYS OF CHRISTMAS: Peacejoy, Love, Hope, Cheer, Humor, Friendship, Hap­piness, Understanding, Health, Charity & Con­tentment. Happiness is not in strength, or wealth, or power, or all three. It lies in ourselves, in true freedom, in the conquest of every ignoble fear, in perfect self-government, in a power of contentment and peace and in the even flow of life, even in poverty, exile, disease and the very valley of the shadow of death. 
PEACE 
Thomas J. O'ConneH 3350 Everett lake Forest, lllinais 

'60 L. EPISTLE FROM PHOENIX 
MIKE BOSCO has broken his seclusion by writing an epistle from Phoenix, where he is now in private practice. He and Kathy now have four children, three boys and a girl. Mike has heard from AL KEALIN, who is practicing in Sacramento, Cai. and would like to hear about JOHN "Pogo" REILLY. 
We've been asking about Pogo since this column began, and also about JOHN BOR­GERDING and BOB AMNNING. Can anyone help? 
As usual, the Low Building was a good place to meet some of you after the Illinois gome. JACK D'ARCY showed up along with HUGH McGUIRE, JOHN BEGGAN, JIM KANE, JOHN 
SULLIVAN and JOE MARINO. 
TERRY HOGAN, BILL CUSTER, and GORDY 

HO have not responded to inquiry letters. The 
next time any of you go to Hawaii, you might 
inquire if the firm of Mou and Ho is still 
operating in Honolulu. 
John A. Dinardo 
721 Hinman Ave. 
Evanston, Illinois 60602 

'61 QUITE A PARTY 
JOE LIBBY wrote and told me that some of his 
classmates in the Washington area gathered at 
DON PUCCINI'S apartment for a party lost 
June. Joe passed on the following informa­
tion. At the Dept. of Justice are R. CAMPBELL, 
BOB MAHANEY and MIKE FERRAR. JA'T'GAL­
LEGHER is with the Internal Revenue Service, 
and BERNIE O'NEILL is Judge Boston's low 
clerk. BELFE WAGNER is with the Army Judge 
Advocate General and JIM POINSETTO is 
with the Corporation Council of the District of 
Columbia. 
TIM KEOUGH fust graduated from George­

town and DEE DAVIS and PAT SMYTH ore in 
private practice. JAY WHITNEY is still with 
the Dept. of the Navy along with BOB PHELAN, 
TOM KING, DON RICE and GENE EPPERLY 
ore at the Pentagon working as civilians for 
the Office of the Sec. of Defense. BERNIE 
HAMILTON is over with the Army Materiel 
Command. RON HOWARD is in Vietnam. 
NICK FERLAZZO is the land baron of the 
Triongle-Quontico Ave. 
NICK and JIM KENNEY ore active in com­

mericiol land development business. JOE 
SCHWARTZ is with Bird Engineering. BOB 
CANIZARRO is preparing for his boards and 
hopes to be a licensed architect by next year. 
OLLIE WILLIAMS was in the process of moving 
from Holy Cross Col. in Wash, to Moreou 
Seminary at the ND Campus. JOHN PALEN is 
a 1st Lt. in the Army and is teaching at the 
Industrial Col. of the Armed Forces. 
JOHN FERDINAND is with Inter-Stote Com­

merce Commission. DON PUCCINI is o Navy 
Lt. and still the bachelor about town. Thanks 
for the info, Joe, and the best of luck in the 
life insurance business. 
DAVE WILLIAMS and his wife Karen hod 

their first son, David Michael in Aug. and they 
now have a girl and a boy. Dave and Karen 
are still living in their apartment on the south 
side of Chicago. 
PAT HICKEY and his wife Debbie ore living in the Pocono Mts. They hove two children, James Patrick III and Maura Helen. Pot is working with his brother-in-law WALTER PEENEY JR. '57 in the retail and wholesale fuel oil, gasoline and heating business. They invite any­one vacationing in the mts. to give them a call at 717-421-6420 for a little cheer!! Great— we'll be right over!! ED GREENE onnounces the orrivo! of their first born Maria Elena lost April. They ore expecting again in March. 
GEORGE MACOR is with General ^fecision Aerospace in Little Falls N.J. His wife Judy and their two daughters ore living in Bloom­field N.J. JIM KANE and his wife Potty moved back to III. from Los Angeles about a year ago and Jim is working for Outboard Marine Corps in Golesburg, III. Jim and his wife hove adopted two boys, Patrick and Daniel. You will hove to get in touch with TIM MONAHAN down there, Jim. 
Boys seem to be popping up oil over the place. TOM KRONER tells me that he and his wife Virginia hove four sons. Tom is finishing a residency in psychiatry at the Milwaukee County General Hosp. where he is the chief psychiatric resident. He graduated from St. Uuis U. Med. School. Bro. PASCHAL PESCE CSC is now assigned to Mt. Cormel in the Bronx to assist the superior of the house and principal of the school. Brother received his MA from Villanova in the fields of guidance ond psychology. 
Dick Favret gives his "Little Brother" a helping hand. 
Man To Man 
"KEET your eyes on that guy—he's 
the one that calls them." Dick 
Favret '60 explains the intricacies of 
scorekeeping to his "little brother" 
at a big Red game. 
Six years ago H. Richard Favret 
joined a friend at a meeting of the 
Cincinnati Catholic Big Brothers' 
Club. Dick says that he was so 
fascinated by the Big Brothers' com­
ments and their concern over the 
problems of their Little Brothers that 
he decided to join the group. Now he 
is the Cincinnati unit's president. 
His new administi-ative duties, how­
ever, will not take him away from the 
really important aspect of the work. 
Dick defines this as providing an 
identification with a strong male 
image to boys, who for a variety of 
reasons, lack one. 
How do you go about creating such 
an image? Ingenuity is the key. For 
Dick it has meant a trip to the Carew 
Tower with his little brother, sitting 
with him through a session of "mod­
ern math" homework, or taking him 
home to the Favrets to see a father 
CHARLES PRAWDZIK is ploying piano in a trio ai ihe Bomboo Club m DolJos, Tex. His wife Sheila presented him with a baby girl Kathleen Margaret last June. ED CHEW and his wife Judith are in the Navy, Ed is a Lt. m \he Navy Supply Corp. at N.A.S. Potupent River, Md. They hove two sons and are enjoying service life and expect to stay with it for a few more yeors. CHARLIE BUCKLEY, after graduating from Georgetown Med School in '65 has just completed two years of service in the U.S. Public Heollh Service leaving it as Lt. Commander at Long Beach, Cal. Charlie and his wife Peggy and their two sons, Erin and Charlie, are in Bethesdo where he is a resident at Georgetown in Radiology. 
We ore happy to announce that TOM CUB­BAGE was presented the Bronze Star for out­standing service in Vietnam. He has completed a tour of duty with the 525th Military Intel­ligence and is now on the way to Wash, D.C. and assignment with the Defense Intelligence School. Well that about does it for this year. May I take the time now to wish you and your families the Merriest Christmas and the Happiest New Year. 
Bill Henneghan 
30554 Scrivo Dr. Worren, Michigan 
4S092 

in action. One little brother discovered on such a visit in the fall that fathers expect their sons to help rake leaves (joy! there is often a financial ar­rangement between "men" for such work). He also saw his big brother become father to the little kids in the family when they disobeyed their mothex-'s orders. 
A boy who lacks identity with a male figure may have little interest in sports and Dick has found it a fun project to stimulate something in that line. He had particular success with one of his little brothers after a Christmas pai-ty sponsored by the organization. Tom Hawkins of the Cincinnati Royals was the guest speaker—^but didn't speak. He started dribbling contests and discovered that for Dick's little brother this was a "first"—to actually hold a basketball in your hands. It all ended up with Favret spending a pi-oud Saturday afternoon helping to put up a back­board and basket on the boy's garage. 
The Catholic Big Brother program 
'eZ OKLAHOMA BRINGS 
'EM OUT Lots of information this time. Spent o greot weekend in South Bend for the Oklahoma gome and saw the following: BOB BIOLCHINI and wife Fran up from Tulso. Bob now has two children; JOE CAREY with Ihe Holy Cross Fathers at NO. Joe will be ordained this spring. VINCE HARTIGAN and wife Kitty now living in Evaniion with their two sons. JOHN TIDGEWELL ond wife Linda from De Kolb, 111., where John is working on his Master's at Northern Illinois U. EARL LINEHAN ond wife Doriel olso from Evanston, hove two sons. RICH CATENACCI enlivened our Saturday eve­ning with melodies in Eddy's. Former roomies GREG WEISMANTEL and RICH JALOVEC were much in evidence. Greg is in Milwaukee and Rich in Chicago. Dr. SEAN FITZGERALD just bock from Vietnam and temporarily living in NYC while waiting to set out for Houston. CHARLEY PUGH, JOHN CHESTNUT and JOHN RYAN oil come down for the day from Chi­
cago. EDDIE SCHNURR and wife Barb left their four kids in Louisville and come North for the weekend with TOM HELFINGER and wife. BUCKY O'CONNOR spent most of the weekend with JOHN GILLARD in Chicago but motored down for the gome and the festivities after at the Morris Inn. Incidentally, John shares an 
of Cincinnati is part of the national oisanization. Cincinnati has three groups, Jewish, Hamilton County and Catholic. All follow the same by-laws and procedures but recognize an ad­vantage in the denominational group­ing. Favret explained that mothers seem more inclined to bring thtir sons to an agency of their particular reli­gious background. 
For the six years that Dick has been involved in the program there have been many organized group activities. The Christmas party is an annual event but each year brings new ideas. Tours through local industrial plants (this year included a Cteneral Motors assembly plant and the local bakery). Reds and Royals games, summer picnics, all have been part of the agenda. 
Dick sums it all up, however, "It's 
the personal touch that really counts, 
both for the little and big brother." 
Look at the above picture. Con­
tinual exposures like this would have 
to do something to the two men. 
apartment with TOM HATCH that approximates 
the 8th Wonder of the World. TOM HANLEY 
took time off and come in from Long Island. 
No doubt many of you weren't mentioned this 
time so please forgive me. 
Navy weekend in Philadelphia: Yours truly and wife Merrily drove up to Philly with BRIAN O'NEIU and wife Cathy for a fun week­end. Present were BILL SCANLON, JOHN BEALL (recently named General Counsel of the Legal Aid Society of Roanoke Valley), PAUL CROT­TY, BUCKY O'CONNOR, JOHN DEARIE, Sean Fitzgerald, ANGY CHAPLIN, JACK CURTIN, TOM SMITH, Rich Cotenacci, JOE DELIA­MARIA, JOHN CROWE, AL SMITH. & TOM HANLEY. 
Spent a recent evening with MARK MAR­QUARDT and wife Carol. Mark hos moved bock to Clearwater, Flo., where he has set up low practice. 
Received almost fifty yellow information cards and I obviously will not be able to get all of them this time. Briefly, BOB HENRY writes from Qevelond where he is serving a two-year Army hitch affiliated with NASA. Bob and wife Paula were just blessed with their third child and first girl. DICK MUSIAL and wife Sharon also re­cently had their third child. LINZIE KRAMER has returned to Vacoville, Calif., to practice law after a long four of duly in tba Air Force. 
By the time you read this column DAN KRALIK will be a husband. Dan has moved to Tacomo, Washington, end is currently super­visor of counselors and psychologists in Pierce County, Washington. JOE BRACCO is employed as a probation officer with the San Francisco Juvenile Court. Joe and wife had their first child. PAUL SICA is presently serving a two-year term in the Navy as a medical officer at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Finally, DENNY BUTLER is a bailiff to the chief {usitice at the Cleveland Municipal Court. Denny recently graduated from Cleveland Marshall Law School. 
H. James Krauser 
830? Gorfie/d St. Bethesda, Maryland 

'62 L R & R —IN THE 
BIG APPLE 

JIM and NANCY GOULD decided to get away 
from it all for a week and flew into the Big 
Apple for some R & R in late October. We 
squeezed in a lunch in Chinatown, which is lo­
cated but Q few blocks from the Courthouse. 
Afterwards, Marge joined us and the Goulds 
and the ROONEYs trekked off to o secluded 
spot in the Village for dinner. As luck would 
have it, JIM STUCKO was in town — oversee­
ing some local "Blue Sky" work — and he 
made it o fivesome. 
Jim Gould is partner in the Grand Rapids firm of Smith, Haughey & Rice, lOlh Floor Mc­Kay Tower. He is engaged in general practice with heavy emphasis on trial work, particularly in the area of insurance. Jim has been quite active in local civic affairs. He and Nancy have three children: Jim Stucko's godchild, Susan Marie (6), James, Jr. (4) and Jennifer (2). Jim Stucko is o partner in the Chicago firm of Pedersen & Houpt, 135 S. La Salle St. Both PETE KELLY, who just returned with his spouse from a European vacation, and TOM KELLY ere members of this firm. Jim has been handling a wide variety of matters but spends 
o good deol of his time in the corporate arena. Jim and Mary have two children: Jim, Jr. (5) and Steve (4). 
It seems that several of our Class ore located in Chicago. Consequently, both Jims manage to see our fellows with some frequency. They re­lated a good deal of the following. JOHN MULL is with the Continental Bank in Chi­cago but is living in South Bend. GEORGE VANDER VENET is with the First Notional Bank and resides with spouse Anne and three children in Wilmette. GEORGE McANDREW, one of Chicago's top patent attorneys, resides with spouse and two children in downtown Chi­cago. TIM GALVIN, who has been "litigating" for the past several years, is living with Karen and two daughters in Hammond, Ind. STAN NELSON is practicing in Bucks County, Pa. He end Natalie have one child. LARRY ond Lilian MANDIKE ore living in Atlanta, Go. Larry is c special agent with the FBI. DAN MANELLI is still in Washington, D.C., and DICK and Joan WILBER ore at Harvard and ore expecting o child. FELIX MACISZEWSKI is now associated with the Hilo and Honolulu, Hawaii, firm of Carlsmith, Corlsmith, Wichman and Case. JOE SUMMERS has been elected vice-pres. of the Legal Assistance Bureau of Ramsey County, Inc., o St. Paul (Minn.) local society providing legal assistance to indigents. Joe has also been named general chairman of the '69 St. Paul Winter Carnival. 
Getting a bit out of our Class, but recent­ly saw TOM '63 and Potti JOYCE. Tom is with Sherman and Sterling in NYC and is doing a good bit of security work. Tom said that PAUL COFFEY '61 has left the Sherman firm and is novL' with the Ford Motor Corp. and is living in Michigan. Also understand that PAUL DRIS­COLL is counsel to the migratory grope pickers in So. California. JOHN COSTELLO married Mary Lou in late November in South Bend. DION O'LEARY is a broker with Merrill, Lynch in Chicago. 
Travelled down to the Navy game in Phila. and ran into STAN and Patricio PECORA. Stan, looking trim as ever, and I foiled in our attempt to get together after the game. Also sow the "Chief" behind the ND bench doing deep-knee bends and exhorting the team on to vic­tory. Note for next year: The place to meet after ND home gomes is Gate 14, JIM GOETHALS popped into town in mid-November for o monagement conference. Jim is chief of industriol relations ot the Sturgis Foundry in Sturgis, Mich. He and Sophie ore expecting their fifth in December. 'Bout it. Merry Christ­mas to oil and to all o Good New Year. 
Pauf K. kooney 
U. S. Courthouse 
Foley Square New Yorif, N.Y. 10007 

*63 RUNNING FOR THE ARMY ART LANGE roced for the army in Olympic trials at Son Diego in September, but didn't get a trip to Mexico. He reports seeing another clossmote, BOB HAYES, at R. Meade recently. Bob is now a captain. Art is married and the father of a young son. Art also reports that JIM MORAN received his PhD in EE at MIT lost spring, and is now working at Lincoln lobs near Boston. BARRY BURKE lost seen in August, still hanging around Polo Alto, Cal., at Stanford naturally. LEN FORYS and wife Sue and daughter Elizabeth have moved to NJ where Len works for Ma Bell. Len received his PhD in EE ot Berkeley. [Thanks for the note, Susan.) 
JOHN FISCH, Harvard low graduate, is now serving in Koza, Okinawa with the army as a captain. John was caught by Carol Ann Akup in August, when Tom Luebbers, Yale law '66, attended the wedding in Decatur, III. 
DAVE SCHICK is working for VISTA in Salt lake City, Utah. Address is P.O. Box 311, Magna, Utah 84044. He'd like to hear from MIKE ROTHSTEIN. 
Good to hear from as many guys as we did. RON SALDINO reports thot he's in lost yr. of diognostic radiology residency at the U. of Col. in SF. His wife is expecting their second baby. MIKE MclNERNEY reports from Chevy Chase, Md. that he's out of the navy, working for Merrill Lynch, and is married to the former Ann Chandler of Midland, Tex. 
ED HACKETT is ot Arizona State until next June, working in the Guidance and Counseling Institute. He reports that Jack Dow is doing postdoctorate work in physics at Princeton. VINCE KAVANAGH is working for the DOD in Washington. PHIL DONNELLY is managing a nite club in Albany, NY. Moil to JOHN COONEY will have to be addressed to JAG, USASC, Thailand, APO SF 96233. John is work­ing as a lowyer in Karat. JOHN O'BRIEN reports that he was best man at wedding of JOHN "KING" CRUGER in September. Ushers were JOHN RALEIGH and DAVE COOPER. John further reports that he'll receive his MBA in December from Wharton. 
SAL CILLEILA is one of the lucky guys in sunny Hawaii where he works in the security agency as PBO. Capt. and Mrs. CHARLES J. McCULLOUGH now live at Hulbert Reld, Flo. with their two children. CHARLIE SCHAFFLER is a sales engineer with the Trance Co. in Memphis, Tenn. He took the long walk in January and hts wife is expecting in March of '69. TOM ELZEN and S. N. THOMAS ore both in the clothing business in Jackson, Miss. 
Sister M. MERCEDES WALKING ASB now lives at the Blessed Sacrament School, 2409 Dicie Highway, Fort Mitchell, Ky. 41017. ERIC VON­DAGRIFT states that his door at 1843 W. Walnut in Visalio Cal. is always open to ND men, even CHARLIE CROCKSHANK. Very liberal of you, Eric! 
MIKE MAGUIRE is working for the Maguire Insurance agency in Philadelphia. Wife Mary had their third girl in August. CHUCK HART­MAN and wife proud parents of a new son their third, in August. Chuck working for Johnson and Johnson Research in Chicago will graduate from Chicago Business school in March. DON TULLY is married and father of 
o girl, expecting a boy in March of '69. He's working in textile soles for J. P. Stevens in NY. DAVE STEGMAN reports that he and DICK TUSHLA ore both in residency at Ventura, Cal. TOM VECCHIONE is doing a surgery res­idency in L.A. county. Dick and Dove both married. 
LARRY GIST is working as DA in Beaumont, Tex. Larry writes that he stayed with Jeanie and TOM REID in Valparaiso recently, over Purdue game weekend. 
BILL KIBLER is now living in Fayetteville, Ark. where he is teaching French at the U. of Arkansas. He spent a year in Lille, Brance on a Fulbright, then earned his M.A. and PhD ot 
U. of North Carolina. Bill married Nancy Schwan this summer, and MIKE GARRETT was one of the ushers. Mike and wife Sally have two girls. Bill would like to hear from BILL JORDAN, JOE DONOFRIO, DICK SCHWARTZ, HOWARD L'ENFANT, BILL FILE, etc. etc., and so would the temporary Class secretaryll Keep the letters coming, remember, there may be somebody, there just may be some member of the Class who would like to know what You ore doingll 
Thomas fi. Hofopp 
3121 Colonial Way, Apt. B Chamblee, Go. 30005 

'65 HOPE FOR HOME PORT 
1st LT NEIL MCDONALD is serving with the military assistance command Phoucle, Viet­nam and LTIJgl JOE McMAHON has been transferred from Vietnam to a cruiser-destroyer force home-ported in Newport, R.I. BILL DUNN and wife Valerie now have o second child, Loura Maria, born in July. Bill and his wife spend considerable time organizing and di­recting their parish high school religious edu­cation program. 
WARREN RICHESON has accepted a position OS an assoc. research mathematician in the research institute at the U. of Dayton. Warren and wife Barbara ore expecting a new family addition in spring. Another son, James Tobin, wos born in July to BARRY BRANAGAN. Two big events occurred in August for JOHN KEE­GAN. He was married to Susan Rovey in Niles, Ohio, and assigned as a production fore­man at Packard Electric Div. 
After two years in the army during which he received the army commendation medal for service in Korea, ED CARENS, is working in the data processing division of I.B.M. He and wife, Marilyn, have one daughter, Kelley. JOHN BERNOTAVICZ was married in October to Freda Douglas of England and is attending Georgetown law school at night while teaching in Wash. D.C. 
HAL STAUNTON was married in September to Elaine Cyr in Hinghom, Moss, with the support of on ND wedding party. Hoi is living in Providence, R.I. where he is completing his PhD work in physics at Brown U. Lt. [ig] RICH BAKER is serving with the navy in Vietnam and DAVE CLEMENTS is enjoying his position in New Kensington, Pa. with Alcoa's application engineering div. doing market development engineering work. 
After receiving his MBA from Dartmouth, RICK DEVLIN joined CBS radio network as an account executive in sales and is now working in their Detroit office. Lt. DICK LEONHARDT is engaged to Mary F. O'Grady (SMC '66] and will be married in December providing he can escape from his naval duties at Pearl Harbor. 
Capt. DAVE SCHLACHTER is flying the 0-1 Birddog as o forward air controller in the Quang Tri sector of Vietnam and reports that he was married in April to Ann Rushmore whom he stole from TWA. Capt. BOB HOGGE is flying F 4's out of Do Nang and Copt. JOE WEINRICH is flying the F-4D Phantom over N. Vietnam our 
SherUl F. Sipes Jr. '57 Lawrence R. Kerwin '58 
George T. Demetrio Jr. '63 Capt. Robert W. Ferrel '63 
Congrats 
Edward A. Lynch Jr. '56 has been named vice president of Opei-ations Research Industries Ltd., a Canadian subsidiary providing sei-vices to gov­ernment and industry. Lynch is com­pleting PhD degree work at George Washington University. 
Robert A. Bergin '57 has been ap­pointed supervisor of recruiting and training development for the Babcock & Wilcox Company's power genera­tion division operations at Ljmchburg, Va. He formerly sei-ved in the firm's personnel and industrial engineei-ing sections. 
Sherill F. Sipes Jr. '57 has been appointed vice president of the newly foimed research division of American Building Maintenance Industries, San Francisco. The native of Louisville, Ky. previously served as vice presi­dent for western operations of a major consulting firm. 
Lawrence R. Kerwin '58 has been 
promoted to vice president at the Bank of California's Southern Cali­fornia office in Los Angeles. He is a member of the American Institute of Banking and the University Club of Los Angeles. 
George T. Demetrio Jr. '63 has been named vice president of McCormick Investments, Inc., a Chicago-based real estate development firm. He pre­viously sei-ved as an investment an­alyst with the Allstate Insurance Co. 
Capt. Robert W. Ferrel '63 has re­ceived the Silver Star for heroism in Vietnam. Capt. Ferrel, a jet fighter bomber pilot, received the nation's third highest decoration for valor "by seeking out, attacking and helping destroy a heavily defended surface­to-air missile complex in Nort Viet­nam while attacked by an enemy in­terceptor and flying through heavy barrages of antiaircraft fire and missiles." 
of UDORN Royal Tho! Air Base. Joe's wife, 
Trudy, is expecting their third baby girl. In Moy 
TOM DEAL and Pom Cornelly were married in 
Gainesville, Ho. Both ore in their fourth year 
at U of Florida Medical School. 
DICK HOLTHAUS and wife, Kothie. have a 
year old daughter, Susan. Dick is a first year 
dental student at the U. of Michigan and 
reports that in August Lt. BILL MINDLIN was 
married to Dionne Daley in Flint, Mich, and 
that Bill is serving with the army in Arlington, 
Vo. MIKE FIURE is in the public health service 
in Foirbonb, Alaska and BILL CAVANAUGH 
and wife Kothy hove two boys—Mark and Mike. 
BART TIERNAN graduated from Yale Law School in June and is now with the NY law firm of Cravath, Swoine & Moore. Although now on active duty at Ft. Leonard Wood with the army reserves, DAN ZIEMBA is also hondiing real estate low for the Chicago Title and Trust Co. after having received his J.D. degree from Northwestern Low School and subsequently being admitted to the Illinois Bar Assoc. DICK TONDRA has earned his PhD in moth from Michigan State and is now on asst. prof, in the moth dept. at Iowa State U. WALT DESMOND and wife Ann hove two children; Kathleen and 
o son, Michael Joseph, born in July. Walt expects to receive his PhD at UCLA in bio­chemistry by next summer. LEE McCARTHY was presented with a daughter. Colleen Ellen, in Sept. by wife, Bobbie. RAY McLAIN and wife Suzie ore also proud new parents. Roy's son, David, was born in Oct. 
James P. Harnisch Apt. B, 863 E. Granville Rd. Columbus, Ohio 43224 

•66 U LOVE THAT LITIGATING! 
BOB KRAUSE writes to soy that he has been spending most of his time litigating in federal court and is having o great time. Before the Oklahoma game he and Terri went out on the town in Chicago with JOHN GOTTLICK who apparently is practicing law by way of a swing­ing bachelor pad on the near North Side. He is specializing in avoiding permanent domestic relationships. 
TOM READY and TOM WARD were also at the Oklahoma gome. JAY DAUGHERTY wos at the Purdue gome and is litigating tike on alligator in Florida. He says life is great in Miami. MIKE ROACHE also put in an op­peoronce and is as solid as ever. BOB MURPHY, star of the "Algiers Motel Incident," was bock in Detroit for his cose and had lunch with Bob Krause. Reports have it that TOM McNALLY is ascending rapidly in the Gncinnati Bar. Tom was always a big man at the bar. 
STEVE LAMANTIA '67 was visiting in Wash­ington and told me that DENNY DEE will be out of the Army within o month and has forwarded his resume to the major firms in Buffalo. Beware Buffalo Borl Steve also said that he sow MARTY IDZIK who told him that he and Pot ore on their way to Germany for three years, courtesy of the old man with the chin fuzz. 
STEVE SEALL was in Washington on business and we hod lunch. He reports practice is fun and that he is doing mostly tax and general corporate work. He has seen MIKE SCHIMBERG and soys that he is stoic. BOB SIEBERT is now assigned to legal service in Saigon. He handles civilian claims against the US. He works a block away from the Notional Assembly which, he soys, "is missing port of its roof because of a mortar attack." JIM VIRGIL has a new address: P.O. Box 127, Granger, Ind. 46530. 
I mode it to Philly for the Navy gome but because of time problems did not moke the party after the gome. PAUL POLKING did go to the party and sow JOE DELLA MARIA who is being transferred to the faculty of the Naval Justice school in Newport where he will finish his Navy service. 
David Smith '51 adjzists current detector. 
He Knoi^s His Salt 
LACKING the glamor of "Sea Hunt" and the smoothness of "Voyage To The Bottom Of The Sea" the chal­lenging work of David Smith '51 takes him here, thex'e, and every­where. Smith is the Director of Ap­plied Oceanography for Dillingham Corporation, one of the world's larg­est marine development films. He heads up a worldwide progi-am that is involved in the practical aspects of shore protection, seafloor foundation engineering, and olfshore mineral ex­ploration. 

It all began back in '51 when Smith graduated from Notre Dame and was commissioned as a Navy officer. The Navy sent him to the Arctic to do oceanographic and hydrographic sur­veys. After two years he divided his time between studying for his MA. in geology at Stanford and working for the Alaskan branch of the U.S. Geological Survey. 
While working on his PhD in ge­ology at Stanford he went back to the ice islands of the Arctic for the Air Force to do research on structural glaciology and ice geomorphology. He had to be flown in and out during the winter and receive his supplies by airdrop all summer because the run­ways melt during the summer. 
From the cold Arctic he travelled to the heat of South Africa to or­ganize and direct a program that in­volved the exploi-ation of three major oflTshore diamond concessions cover­ing over 600 miles of coastline in one of the most inhospitable areas of the world. The §2-million program in­volved the preparation of detailed re­ports, based on the explorations, rec­ommending which, one of the three sites should be purchased. 
From this two-year project came a documentary film, "Diamonds Un­der the Sea," which won a prize in research and development in interna­tional film competition. Smith aided in the production of this movie. 
Next, he went to Southeast Asia and settled down on contract work in Vietnam. This work involved harbor sui-veys, technical investigations of dredging operations. Smith directed two survey parties that operated from the DMZ to the Mekong Delta. Dur­ing these operations one of their ships was blown up and two of their people were hit by grenade frag­ments. 
After additional coastal research in West Pakistan and Japan he returned to the States and was named to his present position with Dillingham. A widely published author in his field. Smith has held a variety of academic, consulting, and research positions. Formerly he was an instructor at Dartmouth, an assistant professor at Louisiana State University, and a vis­iting associate professor at the Uni­versity of North Carolina. He has also done research for the Air Force, the Navy, and the National Park Service. 

Cun'ently he is working on an in­vestigation into the feasibility of an offshore pipeline site in Hilo, Hawaii that would allow tankers to dock off the coast and send the crude oil through a pipeline to the refinery. After he completes this he hopes to return to Alaska to undertake tech­nical studies in connection with the oil fields there. 
Although Dave Smith doesn't do any of the actual work on these proj­ects ("I leave that to the younger guys") he still "finds it very exciting because if yon can do a good job yourself and then find five more guys to do five good jobs thafs even bet­ter. There's a certain reward there." 
Gwkie and I and fomil/ send our very best wishes to everyone for a pfeasant holiday and 
o prosperous New Year. I hope to hear from oil of you in 'i9. Front: Gregory 
5078 Woodland Way Annandale, Va. 22003 
'67 REMINISCENCE 
The nostolgio of autumn brings with it many memories—brilliant amber color flooding the quads, crisp fall afternoons, victories. And with this reminiscence hos come a surge of inquiry and information. 
I was surprised to receive, during the month, a letter from the for reaches of Sierre Leone, West Africa. This small country with a popula­tion of two million has the good fortune to hove the Peace Corps services of no less than four of our illustrious classmates. BOB REIDY writes that he is an instructor in a secondary school there; he is teaching English and seems to be coaching every sport from soccer to Softball. JOE BELLINO is thirty-live miles oway from Bob and is also teaching in a secondary school. Joe is teaching history and is becoming quite fluent in the Mende language. CHRIS SIEGLER and MATT DWYER ore working in the Chiefdon Development in Sierra Leone. Chris is working with the agricultural section white Matt is in construction. 
Another of our classmates entered the Peace Corps recently. MIKE EARLY, who was married in Bogota, NJ, last June, is undergoing pre­liminary training in Louisiana with his wife Ellen. After this schooling period, the couple will be sent to Brazil. 

The ND fomily continues to grow. Our con­' grotulotions to Joan and JIM QUENAN on the 
birth of their son Patrick William. Jim is cur­
rently studying at Marquette U. Medical School 
while Joan—MS '67-—is teaching math at 
Morquette. I also received a letter recently 
from TOM MURPHY. Tom was aworded his 
MBA in marketing from Central Michigan LJ 
last July, and is now working in the sales 
promotion department of the Lincoln-Mercury 
Div of Ford Motors. Tom is planning to change 
his status substantially, however; on February 
1, he will wed Shorron Loisel—SMC '67. 
MIKE STEELE was married June 22 to Harumi Tomioka of Tokyo, Jopon. Mike is continuing to work toward his PhD in English while teach­ing at Michigan State and at Lansing Com­munity Cot. He has had a selection of his poetry published in on anthology that appeared this fall. 
JOHN BANKER was also married during the 
last year. May 11 he was wed to the former 
Susan Ann Larson. John and Sue will be living 
in Toole, Utah where he is stationed after being 
commissioned as a 2nd Lt. in the ordnance 
corps. Sue is on RN and will be working in 
the U. of Utah hosp there. 
LOU SULLIVAN was commissioned as on ensign at Newport, R.I. lost spring. He is stationed on the Basilone which is at the present time in the Mediterranean. He was in at­tendance at JOE CONLON'S wedding Aug. 26; others who were there to wish Joe and Barb the best were TOM KUHN, JOHN HALLORAN, MARK TARKINGTON, JERRY BAMBRICK, and BILL STASCZAK. 

BRIAN J. COYLE has been commissioned as a 2nd Lt. in the ordnance corps of the army. Brian is currently stationed at Ft. Lee, Va. from where he is to report to Ft. Carson, Colo, in December. 
JACK WARNER was married June 15 to Cheryl Peck of Parma, Ohio; the honeymoon was short-lived, however; Jock was drafted June 24. He is now stationed at R. Knox, Ky. where he is serving as a personnel clerk. Second 
U. WILLIAM MINDLIN has recently completed an engineer officer course at the army engineer school in R. Belvoir, Va. LOU CANCELMI has completed his basic training at Lackland AFB, 
Tex. and is assigned to the Air. Force technicol training center in Syracuse, NY. BOB BRENNAN has been stationed at Monterey, Cat. Bob is there to study the Thoi language. 
A few of our clossmotes have made it into the government services as civilians. TIM HOL­LER has been appointed a "plant pest control" inspector by the Dept. of Agriculture in Niles, Mich; JOHN MURPHY is now working as a civil engineer for the Dept. of Transportation in Denver; RON BOSZE has been named an Inter­nal Revenue ogent. 
John J. Hughes 99 West 37lh St. 
Boyonne, New Jersey 

•67 L. A LITTLE LATE A note from Mary and "Kip" ROE arriving too late for publication lost month reports that Kip is specializing in Securities and Corporotion law in Cincinnati. Seems everything is going fine ond they ore looking for a new home. Present address: 2566 Mustang Dr., Cincy. 
It. JOHN BLASI is with the Navy JAG and is currently stationed at Great Lakes, III. He and Nancy just celebrated the birth of John Jr. Sept. 24. Congratulations will reach them ot 9136 Congress Dr. Apt. 2H, Des Ploines, III. 
Received a letter from HAL BLISS in Phoenix. He and Janet have their third child whom Hoi says they named "Modestly Hoi III. " That's o pretty funny name for a kid, but I suppose they con call him "Mo " for short. The letter goes on to say that serving as godparents were Julio and Joe Mortori. Soy Hoi, who's JOE MARTORI? 
ROBERT E. LEE BARKLEY JR wrote ond the 
first paragraph was so beautiful it has to be 
quoted. "Re on you, James, for relying on 
non-impeccoble sources of hearsay information. 
I am olive and well and VERY SINGLE in New 
Orleans with no marital plans at oil. If you 
would set the record straight in print it would 
spore me the annoyance and embarrassment of 
middle-of-the-night-phone-colls-from-forlorn-wom­
en-about'to-commit-suicide and would eradicate 
from you the taint of plagiarism." Sorry 'bout 
that. Bob, but the girl who gave me the infor­
mation was certainly under the impression that 
you married her. Bob is in his second and 
final year as clerk for Judge Heebe in New 
Orleans. Upon completion of the clerbhip 
next summer he moy practice in Florida. 
In the Law Lounge after the Oklahoma gome were JIM HARRINGTON, JOHN HARTY, GARY KAUP, TOM McDONOUGH and TED SINARS. I must odd a note of pleasant sur­prise ot the reaction to this column. Seems the Oass is enjoying it and here 1 thought my mother was the only one who reod it. Jim is licensed to practice in Indiana now as well OS Illinois. TED SINARS, practicing in Chicago, has alreody helped prepare o brief for, ond sot through a hearing in, the US Supreme Court. As strange as it may seem, GERRY CULM was nowhere in sight. McDonough is also in Chicago with a small firm specializing in corporate work. It was a pleasant reunion until Harrington started bragging about his son. Ted and I quickly countered with pictures of our offspring and began to expound on the remarkable alertness and obvious intelligence of the yearlings, when Jock Horty spoiled everything by casually mentioning that his 
youngest hod just opened his own barbershop. Unable to top that, we oil went home. Since I won't be ot the rest of the gomes, I would really oppreciote it if someone would fill me in on who's in town. How 'bout it. Jack? 
Speoking of offspring, the Heinholds wel­comed their second child. Laurel Marie, — a bit premoturely — Oct. 11. That's 293 days after the birth of our first, lost Christmas eve. Laurel tipped the scales ot oil of 3 lbs. 5 oz. but is doing fine and Flo never felt better. Frankly, I'm a little tired. 
There ore still a dozen Alumni who hov* not been mentioned in this column. All it takes is a postcard, note or letter to the address ot the end of the column. 
James C. fftinfiofd 
U Wall St. Norwalk, Connecticut 

'68 THE STORK STRIKES Congratulations to TIM ond Pot MORRISSEY on the birth of their first child, JODY ANN , Aug. 
7. TIM is attending graduate school at ND. BRUCE PAPESH was to hove been married Aug. 31 and then attend M.S.U. (boo) for his 
M.B.A. but due to greetings from Uncle Sam, Bruce joined the Michigan National Guard and his wedding plans ore off for the time being. 
If any of you men happen to be in Africa in the next year, stop in and see T. D. Me-CLOSKEY. T.D. is stationed with the Peace Corps in Molowoi, Africa, ond cocktails ore o f five sharp. While I was down at the Navy-NO gome, I ran into ED WILBRAHAM and GEORGE HORE. Ed and BILL GORMLEY ore at Villonovo Low School while George has en­listed in the Army. MIKE KRONK is engaged to Lynne Jewell and will be married Dec. 28. Mike is attending the U. of Michigan Law School. 
Also at Michigan ore BRIAN LAKE, BILL BINGLE, TOM PHILLIPS, ED FARRY, and our long lost Class vice-president JOHN O'CON­NOR. Mike also write of the morrioge of CHUCK BELDING to the former Sue Pisarek. Chuck is now in the U.S. Army. More news from Lt. JOHN MEANEY who is stationed ot Ft. Benning, Go. John tells us that TOM MAD­DEN is on the U.S.S. Wilson out of San Diego and PAUL SWENSON and PAUL STULGAITAS are at the U. of Penn. PAUL SWENSON is in graduate work in mech. engineering while PAUL STULGAITAS is ot Wharton School of Business. 
Congratulations to JOHN TRACY on his mar­riage to Mary Asmon. The Trocys ore now living in Michigan City, Ind., where John is athletic director at Marquette HS, and his wife is attending St. Mary's Col., South Bend. NICK SCHWADER is presently in training with the Peace Corps in Liberio. JIM O'ROURKE for­merly of WSND fame, is married to Pamela Spencer and is working for his M.A. in radio, television ond film ot Temple U. 
Another bachelor who has fallen from the ranks is MIKE DOMBROWSKI who is married to Joyce Polmieri. Mike will be stationed at Ft. Belvoir, Va., in engineering O.C.S. Airmen JAMES CEVASCO and GEORGE BENNEH JR hove completed basic training at Lackland Air Force base. Jim is assigned to the Air Force Technical Training Center at Sheppord AFB, Tex. George is ot the Technical Center at Ft. Meyer, Vo. JOHN DONAHUE JR. is engaged to Miss Valerie Cheodle with the wedding planned for Aug. 16, '69. 
DALE KRATSCH is married to Cheryl Brew­ster and is in basic training for Army O.CS. at R. Dix, N.J. DAVE BROWNE is also in Army O.C.S. at Ft. Dix. MONK FORNESS dropped me o short line to soy that he is now in graduate school ot Colorado State U. work­ing for his M.S. in Econometrics. BOB PTAK and RICK CAMBRON hove both token their marital vows. Bob to Donna Sotir end RICK to Diane Motuch |Sf. Mary's). 
Since the length of my column has been lim­ited, anyone wishing fellow clossmotes' new oddresses should write me and I will try and publish OS many as possible ir^ my next issue. I would like to wish oil the members of the Class and their families o VERY MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY AND HEALTHY NEW YEAR. 
Leonard i . Pelltcchia 
317 Ut. Prospect Ave. 
Nework, N . J. 07104 

'68 L MORE FROM MOLLY To those of you who received Matty Witczck's scandal sheet much of this will be repetitious, but here goes anyhow. New additions have rapidly inaeased the size of the Ooss of '68. Shortly before they began the long trek to the West. Jane Ellen joined JOHN and Sue SCRIPT (June 28 to be exact). According to John, they barely hod time to moke the hos­pital. Aug. 17 JOHN MADDEN greeted Ann and JIM SEKINGER. Bob Jr. was welcomed by BOB and Andrea HERR. And Jason GRIF­FIN hos joined SKIP and Mary Ann. With a slight tinge of regret ot losing an­other one of our few remaining bachelors but with much more pleasure, I am hoppy to an­nounce the marriage of JIM WIRTZ to Mary Koy Johnston, in Shorpsburg, Pa. Sept. 14. Some of you may hove met Mary when she was out to visit Jim at ND. After a beoutiful ceremony, Jim and Mary Dew off to Bermuda for their honeymoon. Bar exam results ore beginning to pour in, and the results look pretty good so far. LANNY BONENBERGER passed the W . Vo. Bar. I haven't heord anything about the 17 other guys who took it. CHARLIE WEISS and JIM COOLING hove successfully negotiated the Mo. exam. And "Tubby" TIMMY WOODS passed the Mich. exam. As reported in the Wilczek news­letter, Lonny is now on the stoff of Vo.'s Demo­cratic candidate for governor, James Sprouse. JIM COOLING has already been dragged off to the Army. And MIKE WILLIAMSON and FRANK SMITH should be in by the time this is published. Before taking off for the wilds of Ore. JOHN SCRIPP took and passed the Ind. Bar. And word has recently been received that BOB BELLUOMINI has already been ad­mitted to the Tex. Bor ofter teaching summer school ot Galveston Community Col. Ripley's Believe-lt-Or-Not Section. DENNIS COLLINS has olreody been grabbed by the Army and is serving as a college recruiter. BOB BELLUOMINI hos joined the Marine Corps. On Oct. 14 he journeyed to Quontico to begin weeks of "pure hell." Scheduled to be com­missioned on Dec. 20 he has been assured of 
o position as a legal officer. PETE KING hos joined the Notional Guard. On Oct. 29 he is scheduled to journey to Ft. Dix. He has already begun attending weekly meetings at which he is continually bowled out by his sergeant. (The Guard has not yet seen fit to issue him a uni­form ond he looks ridiculous marching in his suit. His sergeant thinks he is a Communist agent sent to disrupt the meetings.) So for, Pete has thoroughly enjoyed working for ROY COHN. From what I con gather from our conversatioru it certoinly is a different type of practice. 
JOHN SCRIPP writes that he is enjoying and learning o great deal from his clerbhip with Judge Kilkenny. He is also picking up on extra trade by doubling os bailiff. ANDY TRANOVICH and Mary were married July 20. After barely getting settled in Indianapolis, Andy received his notice from Uncle Sam and was off to serve his country. 
We New Yorkers ore awaiting the results of the Bar Exam, hoping not to repeat the performaiKe of last year by ruining ND's other­wise high passing percentage. Well, passing the Bar isn't a true measure of one's ability as 
o lawyer anyhow. Rumor has it that DAVE MCCARTHY is working for legol Aid in NYC. 
Thot's oil for now, mainly due to o lack of information. I would appreciate it if those who haven't gotten in touch with me would do so 
— even if it is only o one-line postcard. It's the only way we can know what everyone is doing. Any information I receive will be for­warded to Molly Wilczek for her expanded version. 
Ocnnis C. Thelen 
62-53 84 Ploce 
Middh Villag; N.Y. 1137? 

GRADUATE SCHOOLS 
Research chemist Dr. Frank D'Alelio, a pioneer of the modem molecule. 
Pass the Potymer^ Please 
TH E next time your wife or girl friend asks to be excused to go comb her polymer, don't let it throw you. She's only referring to her hair. And the next time the guy across the table asks you to pass the polymer, rather than do a double-take go ahead and pass the meat. 
In reality those Jonathan Winters-sounding little polymers ai-e about as common as the old wooden rocking chair in the den, the tile floor in the kitchen, the nylons your wife wears, or your dacron ski sweater. They're all around and not many people out­side the realm of science have the faintest idea of their importance in everyday life. 
Technically, polymers are giant molecules made up of identical repeat­ing parts, much the same as a chain of paper clips. In layman's termin­ology they are materials possessing special properties such as toughness, strength, and the ability to withstand enormous heat or cold. 
Common examples of natural poly­mers are hair, wool, rubber, starch, wood, silk and protein. There are synthetic polymers, however, and Noti-e Dame is one of the front­mnners in producing these new compounds that are beginning to have a profound impact on the world of science. 
Dr. Frank D'Alelio, one of the world's leading authorities on syn­thetic polymers, heads up the ND effort and has done so since arriving on campus 14 years ago. He has directed and conducted fundamental polymer research, along with his graduate students, since leaving in­dustiy, "Because I didn't like being exploited and because I feel that this is the best way I can fulfill my ob­ligation to country and community." 
A short, white-haired, little man who litei-ally effervesces the minute you ask him about polymer research, D'Alelio is responsible for attracting more than §100 thousand in research grants into the ND fold annually. He is the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's only polymer consultant and also finds time to act as consultant for a nmnber of in­dustries and deliver papers around the world. 
The fundamental research taking place at ND is the first step in a process that may eventually produce more advanced, heat-resistant ma­terials for use on American space vehicles. But these mischievous-sounding scientific concoctions should eventually have more practical ap­plications as well. For instance, D'Alelio believes that polymers will eventually be used as fire shields in all cars, "the entire vehicle could be encased in flame after an accident and yet the passengers would be com­pletely protected." 
Many scientists have been con­sidered dreamers down through the years and Frank D'Alelio is no ex­ception. He foresees the possibility of each superjet streaking across the continent having its own giant poly­mer parachute, which would all but eliminate fatal air crashes. He feels it distinctly possible that polymers will come into use as superconductors opei-ating against the mag:netic force of the earth, thus eliminating the need for engines in vehicles and machines. 
A BOSTON College grad, D'Alelio is listed in the "World's Who's Who In Science" and prides himself in "de­manding more of my students than any other man I know." 
He's a little man wholl talk your ear off about anything. But he's a scientist first and he won't let you forget it. He lives by the philosophy, "Science is the quest for eternal knowledge, as is everything else. If I didn't think I could best accom­plish my objectives through science, I wouldn't be spending my energies in this field." 

DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY Reiily lecturers for the fall semester included Professors Rowland Petit from Texas U., John Margrave from Rice Institute* Samuel Weissman from Washington U., St. Louis, and Saul Rose-man from Johns Hopkins. Rev. PAUL BERRY '55 is teaching chemistry at Njalo University Col. in Sierra Leone, West Africa. LOU GLUN2 *54 had on exhibit at Atlantic City in September for the company he founded some years ago. Regis Chemical in Chicago. PAUL HOPPER '51 was recently ap­pointed executive vice-pres. of Gentry Corp., Foirlawn, N.J., a food and fragrance company. Paul and his family live in Bernardsville, NJ . BOB KANE '55 is division head of the urethane products specialists group, elastomer chemicals dept. of DuPont in Wilmington. AL KOLKA '39 is ossoc. prof, of chemistry at the New Kensington campus of Penn State U. Sr. RUTH (Ricellal SNYDER OSF '66 is on ex­change teacher (from the Col. of St. Teresa in Winona, Minn.) this year at Spellman Col. in Atlanta, Go. JOE WALSH '49 is now o patent attorney with IBM in Son Jose, Col. working on organic photoconductors. He and his family reside in Oakland. FRED WEBER '39 left the paint business recently to found the Archway Chemical & Supply Co. in St. Louis. Bro. Co/omfao Curron CSC 
Depi. of Chemistry Notre Dame, /nd. 46556 

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMICS There are a growing number of faculty mem­bers in the economics dept who hove never experienced defeat to the graduate students in touch football. Once again this year the faculty won the gome at the dept picnic. The faculty's best play of the afternoon was taking graduate student John Wolters on their side to even up numbers. 
Look for a spate of books to be coming out soon under the editorship and authorship of two Notre Dame PhD.'s WILLIAM LEAHY *66, now on our faculty, and DAVE McKEE '67, now at Kent State, have together with R. Dean edited four books: Leading Theories in Space 
Economics, The Theory and Practice of Re­gional Economics, Urban Economics and the Role of Urbanization in Regional Development. 
Also under contract is o book which they will author. The Regional Economy. In the works is still another book. The Urban Economy, All will be published by the Free Press. 
Professor Stephen Worland's book. Scholasti­cism and Welfare Economics (U. of ND Press), has drawn the attention of scholars and has been reviewed in the London Economist, Amer-icon Economic Review, Economic Journal, and others. 
Prof. William Dovisson, who has learned much in his years of running computer centers ragged with huge tasks of data compilation, has a book which will soon be published by Appleton-Century-Crofts: /nformotion Processing: 
Applications  in  the  Social  and  Behavioral  
Sciences,  
James  Rakowski  
Dept.  of Economics  
Notre Dame,  Indiana  46556  

DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Concerned with pressing conflict situations in American education, the department of educa­tion in conjunction with Congressman JOHN BRADEMA5 recently held a two-day conference on "Major Tensions in American Education: Shaping Policies for the '70's." Among the speakers were McGEORGE BUNDY '66, FRANCIS KEPPEL, and HAROLD HOWE II. Chairman JAMES M. LEE coordinated the depart­ment's role. The MAT teacher training program is one of four national centers testing microteaching, G new multimedia program for improving the technical skills of teachers. ' Prof. WALTER DOYLE PhD *67, ocling director of MAT, is evaluation director. 
Although news from the Atumni has been 
coming in very slowly, we have heard from a 
few. 

Rev. WILLIAM F. MEYERS PhD, superintendent 
of schools in the diocese of Lansing, Mich., is 
now recovering from o sickness which has kept 
him hospitalized for a long time. 
JAMES M. MORROW MA '66 has been ap­
pointed osst. prof, of French at Hillsdofe CoL 
in Hillsdale, Mich. He has been a faculty 
member at Hillsdcle since 1966, and also 
taught at Culver Military Academy. 
THOMAS J. HURLEY Jr. will join the history 
dept. of Culver Military Academy in coopera­
tion with ND's MAT program. JAMES M. 
MCDONNELL win also join the staff of the 
Culver Military Academy as an instructor in 
English under the same program. 
NORMAN J. DUMAINE has been appointed 
to the faculty of Culver Military Academy as 
on English instructor. He taught at the Academy 
lost year under ND's MAT progrom. 
Sister M. EDITH WEBER CDP is conducting a 
series of seminars for adults in Plymouth, Moss. 
She is the dean of the CDP teacher training 
school, and also administrator and an English 
literature teacher. 
Please do your best to let us know what 
you ore doing. Just jot down the information 
on a post cord, and we will see that the 
Department Alumni share it with you. 
Lawrence M, Deno 529 Memorial Library 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH Enrollment for graduate studies in the dept for the current academic year is the highest and most heterogeneous in the dept's history. 105 students ore currently enrolled, including eight students taking courses but not seeking a de­gree, 18 seeking the MA, and 79 pursuing the PhD. An additional 43 students are completing requirements for on odvanced degree but are not in residence, thus bringing the total grad­uate student population in the dept to 148. 
Increased enrollment has taken place despite the graduation of four MA and nine PhD. students during the previous year. Selective Service did not take its expected toll, and more women — over half of the 42 students newly enrolled this year — have been odmitted to graduate studies in English. Women now make up over one-third of the students in residence. 
This year's new graduate students also rep­resent a broader variety of backgrounds and come from more different colleges than in the post. Practically every region of the country is represented. The trend toward increased hetero­geneity has been developing steadily in recent years, and the dept looks forward to its con­tinuing in the future. 
The nine students who joined our PhD. olumnl during the past academic year are Sr. JAMES CONROY OSU; Sr. MARY ELLEN DOYLE SCN; LUCIEN FOURNIER; ROBERT GERKE; DONALD T. HAYNES; DAVID KUBAL; ALISTAIR MocLEOD; Sr. MARIE BERNARD FONGRACE OP; Sr. JOAN MICHAEL SERAFIN FSE. 
The four MA olumni are NOREEN DEANE; Mrs. BARBARA JEMIELITY; EDWARD KELLY; Sr. MARIE CHRISTOPHER LUCEY OSF. 
WILLIAM J. FINK MA '61, has also been appointed assist, prof, of English at Boll State 
U. in Muncie, Ind. Previous to this appointment he had been on instructor at ND, St. Francis Col., and Central Catholic HS, B Wayne. He authored an article, "Snow Bound for the Mod­ern Reader" which appeared in the "Notre Dame English Journal." 
GERALD B. KINNEAVY MA '6^, has been appointed assist, dean of the Colorado U. dept of English for the present academic year. He has been a faculty member there since 1967. He previously taught at U. of Dayton and Penn­sylvania State U. 
MARVIN J. LoHOOD MA '58, PhD. '62, is director of individual study at State U Col. at 
Buffalo, NY. 
Mrs. Georgeanna Caldwell Secretary, Dept, of English 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY 
RICHARD BALFE PhD '56 and JAMES A. VmiTE PhD '57 hove been members of the history dept. of Loras Col., Dubuque, Iowa since '58 and '59, respectively. WALTER GRAY PhD '59 is director of the undergraduate program in history at Loyola U. in Chicago. JOHN PHILIP GLEA50N PhD *60 is ossoc. prof, of history at Notre Dome, co-director of the graduate program in history, and the author of a recently published book. The Conservative Reformers. 
Bernard Nor/ing 
Dept. of History Notre Dame, fadiana 46556 

LAW SCHOOL 
The final argument of the Moot Court Competi­
tion was held Nov. 2 in the library auditorium. 
Presiding was the Honorable Charles S. 
Desmond, a former presiding judge of the U. S. 
Court of Appeals. The Honoroble Roger J. Kiley 
of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the seventh 
circuit and the Honorable Myron H. Bright of 
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the eighth circuit 
were participating judges. 
Presenting their arguments before this dis­
tinguished tribunol were four students: James 
P. Cooney, Hugh D. Prior, Albert J. Bonnon, and James E. Rolls. The winners of the A. Harold Weber prizes were James E. Rolls, first prize, and Hugh D. Prior, second prize. 
A cocktail party and dinner meeting of the ND Low Association was held Oct. 18 at Randall's Inn. Honored guests at this meeting were Dean and Mrs. Joseph O'Meara, Rev. John Covonough CSC, Rev. John E. Walsh CSC, Mr. and Mrs. Hugh E. Wall Jr., Mr. and Mrs. Comille F. Grovel Jr., Mr. and Mrs. Philip J. Faccenda, Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Coryn, Mr. Norman J. Barry, Honorable Roger J. Kiley, and Mr. Maurice James Moriarty. 
Dean Emeritus O'MEARA was honored at 
this meeting and presented with a scroll thereby 
establishing the Joseph O'Meara Emergency 
Low Student Loon Program in the amount of 
$2,000. Mrs. O'Meara was presented with a 
bouquet of red roses by President Morris. A 
tribute was paid to Dean and Mrs. Joseph 
O'Meara by Father John E. Walsh CSC. 
Since Sept. 1, approximately 36 legal firms, gov't and state agencies, hove visited the ND Low School for the purpose of interviewing low students. We hove also received inquiries from approximately 60 legal firms interested in non-compus interviews. In addition, there have been numerous requests for applicotions from our law students to serve clerkships in various courts around the country. 
Attorney General R'onk Kelley of Lansing, Mich, spoke to the members of Gray's Inn Nov. 13. His topic of discussion was "Order and Justice—Crisis 1968." 
George B. Morris Jr., lobor relations mgr. of General Motors Corp. in Detroit, is the newly elected president of the ND Law Asso­ciation. William H. Schroder Sr. and Joseph 
A. Tracy were appointed to the Low School Advisory Board. 
Prof. Tom Shaffer 
law School 
Nofrc Dame, Indiana 46556 

DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING AND MATERIALS SCIENCE 
This is the third instollment of the Graduate News for Metallurgical Engineering and Ma­terials Science. As you can plainly see, offer volunteering to substitute one time for PVof. Cullity who authored the first column, I have acquired this position on a more or less permanent bosis. Oh, well. 
37 
As has been customary in recent years a get-together of alumni was held at the American Society for Metals Materials Engineering Ex­position and Congress in Detroit in mid-October. It was a pleasure to have on op­portunity to speak with the 17 alumni who attended the alumni cocktail hour. They in­cluded DIPAK K. BAGCHI PhD. '67, and THOMAS K. ROCHE '51, Union Carbide Corp.. Kokomo, Ind.; MAHESH C. MANGALICK PhD. '68, Chase Brass and Copper, Cleveland; 
M. R. LOUTHAN JR, Ph.D. '67. DuPont's Savan­nah River Lab., Aiken, S.C; WILLIAM J. KUCERA *57, and WALTER TROY '37, Griffin Wheel Co., Chicago; D. A. VENKATU '61, PhD. '65, Clemson U., demson, S.C; GERALD 
E. MARSHALL '53. Wyman-Gordon Co., Worces­ter, Mass.; HUBERT B. PROBST, '53, NASA-Lewis, Cleveland; ROBERT M. RUSNAK, PhD. '67, Bendix Corp., Southfleld, Mich.; JOHN C. KIRCHNER '58, G.E. Specialty Materials Dept., Warren, Mich.; ROBERT L. PROBST '49, Federal-Mogul Corp., Ann Arbor, Mich.; FRANCIS W. COOKE '57, Franklin Institute Laboratories, Philadelphia, Pa.; ROBERT J. DIERSING '60, Charles Pfizer Co.; CHARLES 
W. ALLEN, MS '56, PhD. '58; EDWARD TRACEY '40, ORL-Penn State, State Col., Pa.; JAMES 
N. BAKER '65, National Steel Corp., Weirton, 
W. Vo.; DAVID L. SPONSELLER, B.S. '53, Climax Molybdenum Co.; Ann Arbor, Mich. It was also good to see at the convention S. K. LAHIRI, MS '64, IBM Research Center, Yorktown Heights, NY; MAN MOHAN KUMAR, MS. '67, Syracuse U., Syracuse, NY; RONALD G. VARDIMAN, PhD. '61, U.S. Naval Research Lab., Washington, and HUGH J. McQUEEN, MS '58, Ph.D. '61, Sir George Williams U., Montreal. 
Professor C. W. AUen DBpartment of Metailurgicol Engineering and Materials Science Notre Dome, Indiana 46556 

DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC We hope you have had, ore having, or will have (depending on postal service in your area] a blessed and merry holiday. Undoubtedly you have heard, at least to some extent, the continued effort on the part of the administrations of ND and St. Mary's Col. to develop an exchange program. At this time there ere several areas where the ex­change of students, faculty and facilities are being utilized with excellent results. A more complete program is desired by both institu­tions. Preliminary meetings involving various depts. hove been established to investigate areas of common interest. A coordinating com­mittee consisting of three members of each music faculty has been selected to study and discuss possible areas of cooperation. Guest artists performing through the uni­versity concerts program are selected by Rev. 
G. Carl Hoger CSC chairman fo the music dept. The selection this year has continued to show a high standard of performance. Among those artists performing at ND for the 1968-69 season ore: Marjorie Hayward Madey, soprano; Robert Anderson, organist; The Baroque En­semble of the Schola Contorum Basiliensis; Wtllard Rhodes, ethnomusicologist; Thomas Rtzpotrick, tenor; Berj Zomkochian, organist; The Gregg Smith Singers; Joel Shapiro, pianist; James Schwobacher, tenor; The Philidor Trio; and Ida Krehm, pianist. 
The ND Concert Bond has booked six con­certs for the 1969 spring tour. Sites are: April 8, Lafayette, Lo., April 10, Corpus Christ!, Tex.; April 11-12, Laredo, Tex.; April 13, San Antonio, Tex.; April 14, Dallas, Tex.; April 16, St. Joseph, Mo., April 18, spring concert at ND. (In a future ALUMNUS we hope to present the complete tour itineraries for both the glee club ond the bond. We hope you are able fo attend the concert in your area.) 
The faculty received a number of requests for admission Jo candidacy for the master's degree 
in music. Nine applicants were approved and accepted. 
James S. Phitlips University Bands, Box 523 Notre Dome, fndiano 46556 
DEPARTMENT OF PHILOSOPHY 
JOHN J. FITZGERALD, presently acting chair­
man of the dept., was chosen to preside for 
a term which begins the activities of a newly 
formed Association of Chairmen of Doctoral 
Programs in Philosophy in American Catholic 
Universities. The association was formed to 
coordinate and assess the information and 
practices affecting programs and procedures 
in graduate philosophy. 
Rev. ERNAN McMULLlN, now on leave of 
absence, served as chairman of the session on 
Galileo and Descartes at the International 
Congress of the History of Science which met 
at Paris this summer. He was also elected a 
Visiting Fellow of Cambridge U. where he is 
making use of his leave for research while 
staying at St. Edmund's House. He also 
attended 'he annual two-day conference of the 
British Teilhard de Chardin Assoc, in London. 
A. ROBERT CAPONIGRI was director of a symposium honoring the tercentenary of the birth of Giambattista Vico, held at ND Nov. 2. Some of America's most prominent Vico scholars were in attendance, papers being given by Professors Thomas G. Bergin of Yale, Max Fisch of Illinois, Elio Gtanturco of Hunter Col and Angelo de Gennoro of Loyola U. of Los Angeles. 
RUDY GERBER, who joined the staff last year, 
attended the seventh annual meeting of the 
Society for Phenomenology and Existential 
Philosophy at Yale in October. He was elected 
secretary of the Indiana Philosophical Assoc, 
this year. 
EDWARD MANIER and KENNETH SAYRE both 
gave papers at the meeting of the Philosophy 
of Science Assoc, held this year in Pittsburgh in 
October. 
A number of doctoral candidates will be 
rounding off the final phases of their work 
this year. Two hove alreody submitted and 
successfully defended their theses: CHARLES 
KELLY and JEANNE REIDY. We will be averag­
ing one a month for the remainder of the year 
if the present trend keeps up. 
Our visitors this year include Prof MAX 
CHARLESWORTH and Rev. BARRY MILLER, both 

from Australia. 
Charles F. Weiher CSC Department of Pbilosopfty 
Notre Dame, Ind, 

DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS 
Three of our Physics PhD Alumni hove recently "been in the news"; so I'll devote this column to on account of their activities. 
ROBERT S. WITTE '50 (high polymer physics) was recently honored by Industrial Research Inc. for his outstanding work in the develop­ment of TRW Systems Group's new Model 2054-2 Portable Argon-Ion Laser. The new Portable Argon-Ion Laser was judged to be one of the 100 most significant new technical products of the year. The unique development in the new laser is a revolutionary new cold cathode, which may well prove to have applications in many other areas. Bob received his B.S. in physics from ND in 1943. After serving as an officer in the Navy during World War II, he returned to ND to complete work for his PhD degree. From 1950 to '52 he was a member of the faculty of the department of physics at DePaul U., Chicago, III. From 1952 to '57 he was employed as a physicist at the U.S. Naval Ordnance Test Station [USNOTS), China Lake, Col. While there, he was a member of the team which developed the "Sidewinder" air­to-air missile. From 1957 to '62, Bob was a member of the faculty of the dept. of physics here at ND. He left in 1962 to join TRW 
Systems, and is currently assistant manager of 
their Quantum Electronics Dept. (See also 
Notre Dame Alumnus, JuIy-1968-August.) 
Bro. MARK GUTTMANN FSC "62 (nuclear 
spectroscopy), who is currently marking his 
25th year of teaching at LaSalle Col., Phila­
delphia, Pa., was honored at a Solemn Mass, 
a reception, and a dinner Oct. 19 for his years 
of service at LoSalle. Bro. Mark is an associate 
professor of physics at LoSalle Col. He served 
as chairman of the physics dept. there for five 
years. During the 1967-68 academic year, 
Bro. Mark was given a leave of absence from 
LoSalle Col. to enable him to spend the year 
with us ot ND on a postdoctoral research 
associateshrp. To keep the story honest, 
should add that we also prevailed upon him 
to do some leaching for us while here. 
Since I've already exceeded my allotted 
space I had better end this column. 
Robert L. Anthony 
Department of Physics Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIOLOGY ANTHROPOLOGY 
The dept recently welcomed back Theodore 
Abel, one of the grand figures in 20th-century 
sociology. A man of charm, wit, and erudition. 
Dr. Abel was a Distinguished Visiting Professor 
during the spring semester of the 1967-68 aca­
demic year, lecturing on sociological theory. 
Thanks to his 12 years as chairman of Colum­
bia U. dept of sociology, a listing of Prof. 
Abel's former colleagues and intimate associates 
reads like a "Who's Who in American Sociol­
ogy." He was responsible for hiring Robert 
Merton and Paul Lozarsfeld and for the estab­
lishment of Columbia's renowned bureau of 
applied social research. His presence gives, as 
it were, our staff and students personal intro­
ductions to a galaxy of eminent behavioral 
scientists. Prof. Abel, after all, was Florion 
Znaniecki's protege, a student of Franz Boos, 
and classmate of Ruth Benedict and Margaret 
Mead. He has just retired after 16 years at 
Hunter College. He will lecture here for a 
month on Durkheim, Simmel, and Weber, 

ROBERT H. AMUNDSON continues to plot the destinies of his favorite brainchild — Loretto Heights College's Research Center on Woman. A series of monographs on woman is being prepared under his editorial supervision. WIL­LIAM J. ENSIGN MA "51, having forsaken the world of corrections for politics, is serving as first citizen ond mayor of Toledo, Ohio. 
Several of our degree holders have either switched positions this year or assumed new ones. MICHAEL F. CONWAY is on the staff ot Western Kentucky; LAWRENCE HONG moved halfway around the globe, going from Hong Kong's University Col. to Marquette; GERALD DEWEY PhD. '67 left Nazareth Col. for Loyola (Montreal), arriving there the same time as JAMES NORRIS; RICHARD LARSON PhD. *61 shifted from the U. of Missouri, St. Louis, to the U. of Florida; JOHN J. LENNON PhD '63 hcs moved to the school vacated by Dick Larson. 
To the swelling list of former students who have become dept chairmen should be added: JACK ANGUS PhD. '67 (The Creighton U.), 
Rev. PETER KUO PhD. '66 (Chominade U. Hawaii), Sr. MARY JAMES RAU, OP PhD. '65 (Aquinas Col.), and PANOS BARDIS MA '50 (Toledo U.). Dr. Bordis is also founder and editor of a new journal called Sociaf Sciences. 
Although we are now processing more appli­cations than ever, the dept still relies heavily on referrals made by ex-students who earned advanced degrees here. Those teaching talented undergraduates, male or female, interested in graduate sociology are therefore hereby asked to encourage them to consider ND. The dead­line for application for financial aid as well as admission is Mar. 1, 1969. 
Prof. Robert Voso/i 
Sociofogy Dept. 
Notre Dome^ Indiana 46556 
CLUBS 

Bahaman resort will be the scene of ND's Fifth International Convention. 
ND Play'Meeting Down 
MN days of old when knights were bold," royalty met at the king's inn for jousts and tournaments, for hunts and sumptuous banquets. It will hap­pen again. 
Knights of Notre Dame, bold or otherwise, you are invited to join the royalty at the King's Inn and Country Club in Freeport, Grand Bahamas. On May 2-3-4, 1969 the ND Club of Fort Lauderdale, Florida will sponsor the Fifth International ND Convention. 
The co-chairmen Donald K. Dorini '53 and William H. Maus '53 are ready to treat you as kings. Speak­ing conservatively they promise to provide the greatest play-meeting of the modem era. For the day-knights there will be skeet shooting, and horseback riding, sailing and fishing. For the night-knights the Kings's Inn provides two night clubs, the Fl Casino Gambling Hall and an all-night tennis court! 
If you profit at the El Casino yoa can spend it all at the world famous Intel-national Shopping Bazaar. 
Tournaments too, will be the order of the day; one to fit every stage of activity, including tennis, golf, fishing and bridge. The duels may be less bloody than in days of old but no less challenging. 
All arrangements for this exciting 
South 
convention are being handled by the Diners/Fugazy Travel agencies lo­cated in over 100 cities. They will con­
.tact all ND Club presidents within the near future so that everyone will have the chance to join the royalty. C/ENTRAL information for aU travel and accommodations will be provided by the Miami Beach office of Diners/ Fugazy. For information write: Notre Dame Convention Bureau c/o Diners/Fugazy Travel, 9553 Harding Ave., Miami Beach, Florida 33154. 
P.S.: Hate to mention this to roy­alty—^but if you are a Diners Club member you can take up to 24 months to pay. 
BOSTON 
The Club held the Fifth Annual "ND Night at the Races" at Suffolk Downs Nov. 15. In at­tendance were 137 cheering Club members ond guests. The officers of the Club presented a ND blanket to the winner of the feature race. Co-chairmen of the event were MIKE O'TOOLE '55 and BILL PIETRUSIAK '58. 
The membership committee is back at work and looking toward a second consecutive year of record membership in the Club. Committee members ore BOB CARVALITO '58; DON COTE '52, GEORGE CRONIN '59, "JAY" CURLEY '53, JOHN GORMAN '53, ED GOGGIN '59, JOHN McCULLOUGH '63, JOHN MEULEMAN '65, DAVE MALONE '60, JOHN LAMBERTI '63, AL FRAUGHT '58, JACK SAUNDERS '31, JIM SKAHAN, JR. '61, TOM REID '63 and BILL PIETRUSIAK '58, Chairman. 
Congratulations to WILLIAM J. STEWART, JR. '•43, the new president of the Boston Chapter, Eastern Association of Intercollegiate Football Officials. Also, GEORGE F. CRONIN, JR. '59, on being re-elected to the Mass. Govenor's Council and MIKE BURKE '57, new member of the Canton, Mass. Planning Board. 
The Club olso thanks RICHARD E. MYLES '54 for designing the plaque presented to NICK BUONICONTI '62 in September. 
Bill Piefrusiak '58, Secre/ory 
^^ ^ CENTRAL i4.0RIDA ^^ ^ 
About 40 members and their wives attended the annual corporate communion and ensuing lunch­eon held in Maitland, Nov. 10 by the Club. 
The Most Rev. William D. Borders, newly con­secrated bishop of the fledging Orlando Roman Catholic diocese, which includes the cities of Kisstmmee ond St. Cloud, was the honored guest and the principal speaker. The bishop also preached the sermon at the Mass at the Church of St. Mary Magdalene. 
Bishop Borders based his sermon on "The People of God," stating: "We can earn the right to call ourselves the 'People of God' if we will transport ourselves as a good Christian people—aiding our neighbors and fellow hu­mans in times of distress—and treating everyone with whom we come in contact as brothers." 
He also stated that Christ does, and has a right to expect perfection from us for He lived a life of perfection while on earth and demands that we follow His example. The bishop added that "Most of us con become saints if we fry to live a life of perfection not in the strict way the saints were perfect but can be saintly in a human way." 
Bishop Borders stressed his sermon theme a little more in his brief luncheon address telling the Notre Dame Clubbers that "regardless of what we want to believe and follow only our selfish motives, we ore in fact and in spirit—Our Brother's Keepers." 
Club Pres. NORMAN E. DUKE told the goth­ered wives and members that the Central Florida Club must expand and increase its membership in the coming year to hove any influential impoct in its membership area. He said this expansion is needed to get more Catholic men to enroll at Catholic colleges and later raise families that will exemplify the worthy fruits of a good Christian people. 
Recently elected club officers who attended besides president Duke were: FRANK LEY, treas., ROBERT SMYTH, sec, ROBERT PLEUS, vice pres. and THOMAS J. HILS of Kissimmee, correspond­ing sec. and publicity chairman. 
The Club fakes in the counties of Orange, Osceola, Brevard, Seminole and Volusia. 
Tom Hi'fs *35, Secretary 
^^^^ CLEVELAND ^^^^ 
Chairman JIM RODGERS '50, commenced his an­nual Rockne awards program the first week in October with a meeting of the sports medio men at the Cleveland Plain Dealer. Our local Club studies and evaluates just about every high school football player in the area with the happy end product being a presentation of a Rockne plaque to the eleven best in the district. Chair­men Rodgers, has formulated on a I l-emcom pass­ing committee including about six sports writers, and we ore hoping this year to ring the bell on some fine area talent which might end up in Aro's stable. 
Oct. 26 we held our general business meeting and coupled it with the annual scholarship prize winning trip to ND with a meeting of the sports medio men at the Cleveland Plain Dealer. 
Due to post office pressure on raffles and the like, we reverted to a small summo type of drive in order to bone up our local scholorship coffers. Chairman FRED PAYNE, experienced in this sort of operation with high school drives, community programs and the like, laid out the whole format; it proved extremely successful. For the second time in four years, BILL McNA-MARA '44, president of the Burns Detective Agency in town, was the recipient of the award—a weekend for two at the Georgia Tech-ND gome. 
The ladies auxiliary hod their tea Nov. 2 at the home of Sue Miller. Jackie Friend chaired the party and the girls finalized their social and community participation activities for the rest of the year. 
Some of our brothers were busily getting elected to public office Nov. 5. RON MOTTL *56, currently a State Representative in his home town of Parma, broadened his political base by stepping up into the State Senate district 24, representing the southwest suburbs of Cuyahoga county and Cleveland's for west side. 
JAMES J. FLANMERY '60, continued his win­ning ways by getting himself re-elected to State Representative in Ohio, district 48, Cleveland's near west side. 
EUGENE SAWICKI '34, stepped up to the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas, being elected to a new six yeor term. Judge Sawicki has been on Cleveland's municipal bench for seven years and before that was a three term State Senator. 
Nov. 14, GEORGE KERVER and spiritual com-pony made the big trip to Our Lady of Fatima Retreat House for the foil husband and wife re­treat. Cleveland had a full house up at the Retreat House with weekend being topped off with ottendonce at the ND-Georgio Tech game. Local members coming back giving us their blessing included the LEO BURBYs '42, the JOE PROKOPs '42, the PAT CANNYs '28, the M. J. O'CONNORS *39, and many others who indi­cated the terrific impression the retreat and Fr. John Buchalo hod on their physical ond spiritual lives. George Kerver has such o following among Clevelonders with his retreat progrom that he's being solicited to conduct a trip to Rome with an audience for the entire Cleveland Club. 
Patrick J. Cannon, Secretory 
DAYTON 
Several meetings have been held to spark Day­ton's participation in SUMMA. Oct. 10 The Doy-ton Inn was the scene of a private luncheon. SUMMA came to Dayton tucked under the arm of BRIAN REAGEN. Oct. 30 a regular meeting of the officers was held at the home of RON HENNE to discuss the local Club's participation in the notional SUMMA drive. Nov. 5 JIM BRITT held a luncheon meeting in the Walnut Grove for the SUMMA steering committee. On the 6th Brian Reagen was bock in town for six hours of meetings. 
Mike Mathis, Secretary 
DECATUR, lU. = 
Four Notre Damers, three fathers of students, and their wives climbed aboard o Greyhound Special, organized by JOHN DUNN °58, for the Illinois game. They were JOSEPH DONOVAN '56, ROBERT UHL '52, DAN CAREY '61, CHARLES MARKWELL '42 and William Couter, M.D., Clar­ence Grop, John Shiel. This has become so popular, it's no longer considered on odditionol projectl 
Steve Craliker *42, Secretory 

^^= SAN DIEGO, CAUF. ^^ ^ 
Sept. 29 Camp Oliver summer camp was the site of a picnic which was attended by some 25 ND couples ond more than 80 children. The afternoon was commenced by an outdoor Moss celebrated by Fr. PATRICK J. O'KEEFFE, the Son Diego Club's man of the year for 1968. Picnicking, swimming and bicycling fallowed. 

Thanks to CLEM and Marge O'NEILL '56 for BisJwp Borders eongratiUatea new Florida officers. their fine work in putting this function together. 
Oct. 17 the club's monthly luncheon was 
attended by some 15 members. Developments 
at the University were discussed as Pres. CLEM 
O'NEILL presided. 
Also in October, SON and Dolores THIEL 
hosted a get-together at their home to watch 
the ND-Michigan State game on television. It 
was on enjoyable though frustrating afternoon 
for those who attended. 
Classen Cramm '63L, Corresponding Secretory 
^^ ^ TRI-CITIES, IOWA ^^ ^ 
Oct. 4, the night before the lowa-ND, we held 
a dance and pep rail/ at the Blackhawk Hotel 
in Davenport, Iowa, at which John Lujock, 
acting as toastmaster, introduced a fine group 
of speakers. 
Heading the program, was Elmer Leyden, who 
gave an interesting and entertaining talk. Also 
among the speakers was John O'Donnell, sports 
writer for the Davenport Times-Oemocrot, Bob 
McBride, former ND assist, coach, and Dick 
Lamb, who although a native Davenporter, has 
for the past ten years been historian for the 
National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame. 
He is now a reporter for the Times-Democrat 
also. 
Also on the program was Jim McAndrews, 
the fine young pitcher for the New York Mets, 
who is a notive of this area. 
We hod a turnout of approximately 400 
people, and the event was under the chair­
manship of JIM DOYLE, a long time ND 
alumnus. 
The next activity of our Club, was the Dec. 8 
communion dinner at St. Joseph's Monor in 
Bettendorf, Iowa. Rither Harrison, second in 
command, and an excellent chef, agreed to 
supervise the preparation of a gourmet meal, 
for our alumni group, following on evening 
Moss. 
B. J. Hank Jr., President 
= UTAH = 

Oct. 26, the Club congregated at the Hill Air 
Force Base Officers Club to cheer the Rghting 
Irish in their bottle against Michigan State. The 
results were not to our liking, but the spirit was 
there. After the game, the "pep club" rallied to 
the home of Copt, end Mrs. CHRIS LANE *63 
for a light bufFet. 
We've lost another loyal ND supporter . . . 
LEONARD Dl GIACOMO decided to pursue his 
career in Addison, III. We wish you luck, Len! 
An early winter "stag" meeting is planned to 
discuss our participation in the Alumni Clubs' 
recruiting program and to digest the many notes 
taken ot the regional meeting of the Alumni 
Senate. Our congratulations to JIM COONEY 
and his people for their ambitious and effective 
program of getting the word to the local Clubs. 
Chuck Benneff '55, Acting Secretory 

^ ^ WASHINGTON, D.C. ^ ^ 
Oct. 24 the Board of Governors met to approve, for submission to the membership, the proposed new constitutiion for the Club. This constitution was voted upon Nov. 25. 
Nov. 2 the Club chartered a train to Phila­
delphia for the ND-Navy game. Among the 
524 who made the trip was HUGH DEVORE 
who was visiting his daughter Marie and her 
husband JOHN ROSSI, '59, who live in the 
Washington area. Coach Devore enlivened the 
trip with many stories. 
In Philadelphia, the bus talcing JOHN ROSSI, PAT KANE, PETE CANNON, and others from the train station to the stadium somehow got sidetracked on a sightseeing tour of the less scenic parts of town. An unscheduled stop was mode for the purpose of re-filling the scotch coolers and the group made it to the game on time. 
The Club has moved the site of its monthly lunch to O'Donnell's Restaurant at 1211 E Street, 
N.W. II will still be held at noon on the 2nd Tuesday of each month. NORDIE HOFFMAN and RAYMOND RAEDY were the speoliera at the Nov. 12 affair, commenting on their participa­tion and observations of the Democratic and Republican campaigns. 
Raymond Raedy '62, frcsidenf 
FAWHRP COUNTY 
CONNECTICUT 

Alumni, parents of present students and friends gathered at the General Putnam Inn, Norwalk, Nov. 10 for the drawing of the grand prize winner of a trip for two to the ND-Georgia Tech gome. Joe and his son JACK DONAHUE '55 were present to claim the prize. Gallant Joe is stepping aside so that Jock's wife, Gloria, can accompany him for her first trip to ND. The scholarship fund of the Fairfield County Club is the big winner benefiting by a thousand dollars. Also toking bows currently ore JIM POWERS '52 and JACK SLAHERY '49 co-chairmen of the Club's charter bus trip to the N.D.-Navy Game at Philadelphia. Eighty members and guests par­ticipated in this highly enioyoble event. A spe­cial bow is extended to LLOYD FORRESTAL '52 and especially his wife Arlene who entertained better than half the charter group at a buffet in their home after the trip. 
JIM FALVEY '52 announced final plans for the Family Communion Breakfast held Dec 8 at the Convent of the Sacred Heart, Greenwich, Conn. A feature of this year's observance wos the celebration of a folk Moss assisted by the students of the Convent. 
G. SarsHeld Ford '55, Secretary 
GREATER MUVMI 

An important step was taken by the members of this Club at our meeting Oct. 17. We repealed our old by-laws and adopted a new Club con­stitution. Under this more simplified document, the most significant change is the time for the election of officers and directors. Elections will be held in November in the year preceding the year these new officers and directors take over the actual operation of the Club. This will give the new team the opportunity to plan the year of activities before January 1. We believe this will prove, in time, to be a great help in the continuing improvement of our Club. 
Our active 2nd Vice Pres., J. PAT O'MALLEY, resigned his position with the Club in October. Pot and his family were transferred by his em­ployer to Memphis, Tenn. All of the Miami alumni thank Pot for the time he has devoted to the Club in the past, and wish him and his family the best of success in their new sur­roundings. 
L Nick Muelhaupf '52, Secretory 
JERSEY SHORE 

Pres. DICK CORDASCO *50 served as a com­
mittee of one to plan and execute o very en­
ioyoble and sociable cocktail party and dinner 
at the Cherry Hill Inn after the Navy game m 
Philadelphia early in November. 
CHARLIE HESSE *57 is the chairman for UND 
Night, to be held early in April at the Shadovi^* 
brook in Shrewsbury. The speaker this year will 
be JIM COONEY '57, the Alumni Association 
Executive Secretary. 
Plans ore also under way for the Club to sponsor a bus trip this winter to Madison Squore Garden to see the Irish basketball team in action. Members will receive details in a lat ^ mailing. 
The Annual Communion Mass of the club De­
cember 8 was held at 4 p.m. at St. Dorothea's 
Church in Eotontown. The club's new choploin. 
Rev. George Everett, said the Moss and de­
livered the sermon. 
Cbariie Keller '54, Secretary 

^^ ^ MOHAWK VALLEY " NEW YORK 
The Club held its annual foil smoker in Utica Oct. 17. It was highlighted by a speech from 
Ben Rizzo, the 19£2 captain of the Miami (Fla.) 
Hurricane football team. Ben b in his first 
season as head coach at Notre Dame HS in 
Utica. In addition the highlight films from ti n 
'67 Rghting Irish football season were shown-
A new slate of ollicers was installed as 
follows: Pres., RAY BEIOEN; Vice Pres., FMNK 
MAKTELLO: Sec., KOBHT FIETCHEK: Treos.. 
MIKE PHILLIPS. 
The affair was closed with a brief meeting 
lo moke preliminary plans for the SUAMAA com­
paign in the Atohawk Volley area-
John F. Woeppef, tost tnudtnt 
NEW YORK CITY 

Rom the Alumni Club comes a "first" that we hope will be followed by Alumni Qubs all over the country. So that the interest, talents, and abilities of former presidents of the NY Alumni Qub need not go unused, the Board of Gov­ernors initiated a program to develop the "Former Presidents' Council of the NY Alumni Qub." It will be on octne group in supporting oil local Alumni octhrities, and will work with the Club Boord of Directors in any capacity, advisory or otherwise, that might be of help to the Club. 
JORDAN HARGROVE '35, president of the Club in 1947, was chairman of the organization commiHee, assisted by JACK McNAMARA, Oub president in 1967 and GORDON FORESTER, Qub president in 19£S and 1966. 
The purpose of the Farmer Presidents' Council b not to come up with separate programs, or other activities, but to be available for any help or advice that might be needed, and to be more active, personally, in all NO functions. 
John 1. Nonovic 

^^^ OMAHA AND ^^^ 
couNcn. Bums 

On the second Wednesday of October the Qub met at the Captain's Table for its first monthly ND Alumni luncheon. About 20 of our alumni attended along with a contingent from the Strategic Air Command stationed at the head­quarters of SAC ot Offutt Air Base, Nebraska. 
We were certainly happy to welcome alumni from our area who ore stationed with the Air Force at SAC Headquarters. It was a pleasure to learn and recognize thot two of the local alumni from SAC Headquarters hod been pro­moted to Lieutenant Colonel. They ore Lieute­nant Colonel Tom Schwietz, Class of '54, and Lieutenant Colonel Bill Deloney, Class of '53. 
The president of our alumni club announced that the ND Glee Club will appear in Omaha under the sponsorship of the local alumni club Jan. 31. 
Robert O. Brown, Secretary 
= R0ME = 

Our ND Hospitality Center is at your service daily from noon to nine at 82 Largo Broncocdo, Tel.: 730.002, near central railroad terminal. 
Papal point: PAUL VI '60, holds public audi­ence each Wednesday forenoon and gnes a public blessing each Sunday noon. 
Guests: DR. GORDON and Mrs. Dl RENZO '56 returning to Rome for a year as Fulbright prof, in sociology at U. of Rome. FR. ADAM (MICH­AEL) TERRY 'i1 now a Comoldolese monk b studying here and hosting mother and aunt. FR. JIM DENN CSC '58 also returned to Rome for studies and hosting mother. 
JOHN LUNGREN JR '« , BILL TOMAS '59, ARTHUR SMITH JR '«9. REV. VINCENT DELAVY CSC '38, REV. MICHAa FORAN CSC '33, SR BASIL ANTHONY CSC and SR ALMA CSC o( St. Mary's, HERBERT BLACK JR '64. 
"Ecumenical" guests from: New York U., Pratt Institute, U. of Minn., Northwestern, Bel­lormine, St. Joes (Australia), Bowling Green, Hampton and Chapman College's floating oround-the-wrorld year abroad students. 
Vihce McAfoon '34, Secrcfoiy 
On Record 
Passing of ND^s Music Maker 
Joe Casasanta '23 

SOMEONE once said (perhaps it was in reference to Irving Berlin), "Let me hear your country's songs, and I will tell you a lot about your coun­try." The same might be said of a university like Notre Dame. 
The music of Notre Dame speaks of two things principally, determination to move ahead and devotion. Anyone who has thrilled to the cadence of the "Victory March" and "Hike, Notre Dame" or sung "Down the Line" and "When the Irish Backs Go Marching By" senses the spirit of a school which will not be outfought. And who can sing or hear "Notre Dam^ Our Mother"—even in a packed staditmi— without, at least for a moment, mak­ing a prayerfiil glance heavenward? 
Joe Casasanta '23 gave Notre Dame most of its music, and who has made a greater contribution? He took a lovely poem by Father Charles O'Don­nell, the poet-president, and gave it 
a melody that somehow seems equally 
appropriate at half-time or at the 
wedding or funeral of an alumnus. 
With the late Father Eugene Burke— 
that grand priest with the glasses 
on a ribbon—^he wrote "Irish Backs." 
He took a cue from the Hockne shift, 
and with his brother-in-law, Vince 
Fagan, wrote "Hike" and "Down the 
Line." 
During the last fifteen years Joe Casasanta quietly and courageously fought a battle of his own against cancer. When they brought him to Sacred Heart Church on December 5th, the Notre Dame Band {fathered at the entrance to play the "alma mater" in tribute, and the Glee Club sang for the funeral Mass. For the better part of two decades he had been the director of both musical organizations. Joe was buried in Cedar Grove Cemetei-y, just a short distance from the campus and his own home on Angela Boulevard. 
When a person dies, it is often said that they "live on" through the legacy which they leave behind. Surely this can truly be said of Joe Casasanta. For the spirit of his music will live as long as Notice Dame fields a team or fights a foe and as long, too, as there is a Golden Dome glistening in the Indiana sky. 
Joe Casasanta was a Notre Dame man, and even those who didn't know him personally know him through his music and are richer because he passed our way. 
—Jamti E. Murphy 

Attentiom *49erm 
Leon Hart, former ND football great, has announced plans to orga­nize a 20-year reunion for the 1949 football team. He requests that all former team members interested in taking part contact him at the Abex Corporation, 900 West Maple Rd, Troy, Michigan 48084. 
WemtwardHmt 
ND Athletic Director Ed "Moose" Krause will escort a special, two-week {[roup tour to Hawaii and the neigh­boring Islands. The tour will depart from Chicago January 18 and will return February 1, 1969. 
The excursion includes round-trip jet air fare, accommodations at the Princess Eaiulani Hotel, and numer­ous sight-seeing trips. Also included will be tours of the islands of Kauai, Maui and Hawaii. 

Almnni and friends of the Univer­sity are invited to join the tour and may obtain further information by writing to "Moose" Krause, WNDU, 
P.O. Box 16, South Bend, Ind. 46556. 
European Trip 
The ND Student Union will sponsor a summer European trip open to all ND and St. Mary's students and their families. The dui-ation of the trip will be 61 days with departure from New York by jet on June 5. 
The cost of transportation is $278 and special hotel and transpoilation rates will be available in Europe. Ex­pert itinerary planning will also be available. For further information contact: European Trip, First Bank Travel Dept., Badin Hall, Notie Dame, Ind. 46556. 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Miss Barbara Joan Allen to JAMES JOSEPH GRANT JR. -67 Miss Carmen Morris Carmichoel to CHRISTO­PHER JOSEPH MURPHY III '68 
MARRIAGES 

Miss Barbara Ann Bellmore to LESTER JOSEPH BOUDREAUX '62, Nov. 9. Miss Patricia Peatman to FRANK OBERKOET­TER '62, Oct. 19. Miss Frances Griffith to JOE BRANN '63, August, 1967. Miss Corol Ann Akup to JOHN FISCH "63, August. Miss Gwen Cygan to WALT HEINEY '63, 
Nov. 2. Miss Nancy Schwan to BILL KIBLER '63. Miss Donna Strand to DENNIS ALLEN '65, 
Oct. 19. Miss Patricia Clayton to THOMAS J. NAHM •«5, Nov. 30. Miss Carol Ann McNamara to JAMES E. EGAN 66. Nov. 13. Miss Susan Ann Larson to JOHN BANKER '67, May 11. Miss Harumi Tomioka to MIKE STEELE '67, June 22. Miss Mary Ann O'Brien to LARRY GRUBER JR '68, Sept. 14. Miss Kay Robinson to TONY VIGNALI '68, Nov. 30. Miss Mary Kay Johnston to JIM WIRTZ '68L, Sept. 14. 
ADOPTION 

Mr. and Mrs. TOM GRODEN '55. a son. Thomas Joseph, born Sept. 11. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. ond Mrs. JIM SCHMITT "SI, a son, Charles James, Aug. 16. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT DAVIDSON '54, a daughter, Erin Therese. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE GROBLES '57, a daughter. Mr. ond Mrs. TOM McMURTRY 'ST, a son, Sept. Mr. and Mrs. PETE NOZNESKY '57, a daughter, Sept. Mr. and Mrs. DENNIS F. TROESTER '57, o daughter, Patricio Ann, Oct. 31. Mr. and Mrs. FREDERIC J. MOWLE "59, MS •«!, 0 son Michael John, Oct. 31. Mr. ond Mrs. CHARLES QUINN III '61 MA '63, o son, Charles Lawrence, Oct. 29. Mr. and Mrs. BRIAN REGAN '61, o son, Michael Gregory, Nov. 27. Mr. and Mrs. DAVE WILLIAMS "61, a son, David Michael, August. Mr. ond Mrs. PETER DIERKS '62, a son, Matthew, Sept. 22. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT A. BRUTVAN '63, a daughter, Catherine Elizabeth, May 1. Mr. and Mrs. CHUCK HARTMAN '63, a son, August. Mr. and Mrs. KENNETH TELESCA '63, a 
daughter, Maria Elizabeth, May 16. Mr. and Mrs. LARRY TEMPLE '63, a son, Oct. Mr. and Mrs. MIKE MAGUIRE '63, a daugh­
ter, Aug. Lt. and Mrs. JOHN BLASI '67L, a son, John Jr, Sept. 24. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES C. HEINHOLD '67L, a daughter. Laurel Marie, Oct. 11. Mr. and Mrs. TIM MORRISSEY '68, a daughter, Jody Ann, Aug. 7. Mr. and Mrs. ED PIERSON '68, a son, Michael David, Oct. 3. Mr. and Mrs. SKIP GRIFFIN •68L, a son, Jason. Mr. and Mrs. BOB HERR °68L, o son. Bob Jr. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN SCRIPP '68L, o daughter, Jane Ellen, June 28. Mr. ond Mrs. JIM SECKINGER '68L, a son, John Madden, Aug. 17. 
DEATHS 

ALBERT H. KRUG '02, Sept. 3. He is survived by his widow who lives at 2533 Kimboll, Pomona, Col. 91767 
MICHAEL J. McGUINESS '08, Oct. 30. Michael died after a long illness. He is survived by two sons Charles Lee of Washing­ton, D.C. and Dr. Michael McGuiness Jr. of 
M. Kisco, N.Y. 
M. HARRY MILLER '10, Nov. 13. He is survived by his widow of 2410 Pennsylvania Ave., Wilmington, Del. 19806 
JOHN F. HYNES '14, LLB '15, Moy 17. His 
family resides ot 4927 Grand, Des Moines, 
Iowa. 

JAMES C, O'BRIEN '16, Oct. 2. Jim's family 
lives at 391 Townsend St., Birmingham, Mich. 
PAUL J. MERFELD '17, October. His widow 
lives at 452 E. Walnut St., Frankfort, Ind. 
CHARLES W. CALL '18, Nov. 27. He is survived by his widow at 1047 Biltmore, Winter Haven, Flo. 33880 
T. HAROLD McCABE '22, Oct. 9. He wai the retired head of the central adjustment department of Kodak Co. He is survived by his widow Mary of 2121 N. E. 40th Ct., Light­house Point, Pompono Beach, Flo. 33064 and two daughters Mrs. William Goffney and Mrs. Richard Spiegel. 
GEORGE E. PROKOP '22, June 16. A back­
field teammate of George Gipp who spent the 
lost 13 years in the County Auditor's office, 
George is survived by his widow Katherine of 
1003 Cherokee Trail, Youngstown, Ohio and a 
son Gilbert. 

JOHN C. COCHRANE '23, Nov. II . He is 
survived by his widow who resides at 3210 
Collings Blvd., Toledo, Ohio 43610 and his son 
Chris '46. 

EUGENE M. FOGARTY '24, Sept. 19. Gene is survived by his widow who lives at 1831 N. Bancroft St., Indianapolis, Ind. 46218. 
GEORGE R. HAMILTON '24, Sept. 28. George died suddenly of o heort attack. He Is survived by his widow Delphene of 1300 Rosalie St., Evanston, III. 60201 and two daughters Mary Judith ond Kathleen Ann. 
J. CLINTON RYAN '26, Nov. 3. Clinton died after on illness of several months. He is survived by his widow Gladys, a sister Mrs. Frank Lodue and o brother James of Washing­ton, D.C. 
SR. M. AQUINATA MARTIN O.P. MA '32, 
Oct. 30. 

WILLIAM J. SCHRADER '33, Oct. 19. Bill is survived by his widow Rosemary 3530 W . Montebello, Phoenix, Arizona 85019, two daughters Mrs. Julio Vece of Cincinnati and Miss Kathleen Schroder of Phoenix, and two sons, William J. Jr. and Thomas. 
LAWRENCE E. CARPENTER '34, June I . He is survived by his widow Florence, daughters Susan Elliot and Patricia Carpenter and sons, Lawrence and Michael. 
DONALD L. ELSER '36, Oct. 18. Don died of on apparent heart attack on hour after his team of Gory Mann High School was defeated. He is survived by his widow Margaret and two daughters Donna (12) and Betty (15) of 764 Polk St., Gory, Ind. 46402 
JOHN A. RILEY '37, Aug. 13. John is sur­vhred by his widow Dorothy who resides at 28 Stratford Rd., Newport News, Vo. 23601 
HENRY S. BLACHARSKI '53, Nov. 10. Heniy, who was formerly employed as an engineer with Bendix, died from on opporent heart attack. He is survwed by a brother Edward and two sisters Un, Genevieve Stachowicz and Mrs. Elaine Demi. 
CAPT. EDWIN SCHNEIDER JR. '55, Oct. 24. Ed died suddenly at his home in Roncho Cordova, Col. He is survived by his parents Anne and E. C. Schneider Sr. 
DAVID SULLIVAN '63. Dove was killed in ^^lt^nam. He is the son of Robert Sullivan '40 of Missoula, Mont. 
KEVIN G. BURKE '67, Nov. 22. U. Burke was killed in Vietnam. He is survived by his porents Mr. and Mrs. Gail Burke, and two brothers Borry '63 and Alan '65. 
MICHAEL R. RICH '67, Nov. 5. Mike was killed in Vietnam. His parents, Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Rich, live at 3260 Kemway Ct., Bloomfield Hills, Mich. 48013 
SYMPATHY 

CHRISTIE C. FLANAGAN JR. '28 on the deatii of his wife Rita. DANIEL F. CANNOS '30 on the death of his son Oct. 31 LOUIS L. DoPRA '39, '40 on the death of his sister Bruno April 25 JOSEPH E. HANNAN '39 on the death of his father Oct. 23 ROBERT G. SANFORD '40 on the death of his wife Sept. 26 LOUIS A. MACKENZIE JR. '4I on the death of his father Oct. 7 CHRIS W . COCHRANE '46 on the death of his father John C. '23, Nov. 11 JOHN C. BROWNE '51 on the death of his father in October. STEVEN A. MULVEY '51 on the death of his mother Mrs. James A. Mulvey ROBERT H. MOONEY JR. '52 on the death of his father Robert H. Sr. Nov. IS Rev. JACK L TOTTY '52 on the death of his father Oct. 11. DAVID L BROWNE '54 on the death of his father in October. JOSEPH CASSASANTA JR. '55 on the death of his father Joseph J. '23, Dec I ROBERT J. WELSH JR. '56 on the deoth of his father Oct. 10 ALBERT K. MOONEY '57 on the death of his father Robert H. Mooney Nov. 15 JOHN D. BUCK '59 on the death of his fothw Sept. 17 CHRISTIE S. FLANAGAN '60 on the death of his mother Rita ALAN MEYERL '61 on iha death of ha molhw Oct. 1. MICHAa B. FLANAGAN '<3 on tha death of his mother Rita 
Book 
Keviews 
DRAFTING WILLS AND TRUST AGREEMENTS IN ILLINOIS by Jomes M. Corcoran Jr '55, '56L, and others. Institute on Continuing Ed­ucation of the Illinois Bar, $35. 
THI S is a thorough, practical form 
book for practicing lawyers which 
formed the basis of continuing-legal­
education meetings at 16 places in Il­
linois during September and October. 
Jim Corcoran, the Evanston lawyer who wrote lai'ge parts of it, is known all over the midwest as the one man who will talk about wills and trusts during half-time at football games. He is so dedicated to his profession that I, for one, don't even wonder what he talks to his wife about at breakfast. 
Jim (along with the other authors) is a careful, skillful specialist. He is also a bug about saving lawyers' time (and clients' money). (In fact he's so efficient that he may not even eat breakfast.) 
The book has, by my count, 57 pages of pithy text—^just enough to remind a busy lawyer of such things as provisions for the children bom or adopted after the will is drafted. It has 95 pages of well-drafted, lucid forms; 10 of outlines for intei-view­ing clients; 10 of helpful tables. It is indexed by subject matter, statutes and treasuiy regulations. 
Jim has even, I think, been affected by contact with fussy law professors. At any rate, his forms are wonder­fully concise and free of the rhetor­ical garbage that characterizes the work of lesser lawyers. 
When Mrs. Shassere of the ALUM­NUS staff brought the book over to me at the Law School, she said it looked like a cookbook (loose-leaf, with help­ful index tabs). And it does. But it's a good cookbook, Mrs. Shassere—full of Jim Corcoran's solid, nourishing meat and potatoes. 
—Thomoi L. Shaffer '61L 
YAZ by Corl Yastrzemski-'61 with Al Hirshberg, The Viking Press, 183 pp.. $4.95. 
a AZ is the colorful autobiography of one of the sports world's established young stars, Carl Yastrzemski. Em­bellished by his recollections of one of baseball's truly memorable happen­ings, the 1967 resurrection of the Boston Bed Sox and their ensuing drive to the American League pen­nant, it is an exciting and revealing account of Yastrzemski's rise to star­dom. 
Spiced with numerous personal in­sights and experiences, the initial chapters of the book deal with the author's personal backg^ronnd and family life. Yastrzemski relates the deep personal relationships he shares with his father and grandfather. He tells of a unique family baseball team and its success and he establishes the lasting influence baseball has on his life. 
As the book progresses, Yaz tells of the coui-tship of numerous baseball scouts and the subsequent wheeling and dealing for a bonus, which cul­minates in a six-figure contract. Mar­riage, life in the minor leagues and his association with baseball's great Ted Williams also come in for treat­ment, as well as his two-year stay in the shadow of the Golden Dome; 
Yaz also relates the details of his inconspicuous baptism to big-league baseball competition, life with the floundering Bed Sox and his depres­sion at playing with a loser. 
The conclusion of the book centers on Yaz's emergence from mediocrity and his poignant memories of the miracle of 1967, the magical jugger­naut journey to the pennant. 
It is a book which gives insight into the world of professional sport while at the same time relating the human perspectives involved. It should make for interesting reading for both the sports buffs and others. 
—Tom Sullivan '66 
Almmmi A»k 
AYES *N' NAYS 
By featuring the meanderings of 
a senile mentality, and a not-dry­
behind - the - ears pontificator, the 
ALUMNUS has again plumbed the 
depths of irresponsibility. 
"Thou art Peter and upon this rock 
I shall build my church," said Jesus 
Christ. 
Today some lay people, including wearers of Papal Decorations, strag­gly-haired, mini-skirted, name-plated nuns, and Catholic clergy, including wearers of the black, the purple and the red are reaching for the "bottle" of public dissent. 
The objections of these self-pro­claimed, would-be theologians are placed under the umbrella of "con­science." If they have a shred of honesty within their beings they must admit that the catch-all term "con­science" is but the weakest possible alibi for BEBELLION AGAINST DISCIPLINE at eveiy level of society, including Catholic schools and the Catholic religion. Without obe­dience to Pope Paul VI and his suc­cessors there cannot be a Catholic Church! If Notre Dame denies this truth then Notre Dame is a fountain of heresy, and the ALUMNUS is an accomplice! 
By their actions you shall know them. Leo C. Heringer '24 
Normal, III. EDITOR'S NOTE: The ALUMNUS attempts to promote the truth by re­porting the actual happenings on campus. It is only through an objec­tive approach that the facts can be made known to all and judged ac­cordingly. 
I have not at any time knowledge­ably subscribed to or permitted deliv­ery of unpatriotic, perverted or here­tically corrupt publications to my 

residence. Since your publications 
currently are steeped in perfidy, I 
DEMAND that my name be zemored 
from your mailing list. 
Should your organization in the future, return to a sane and morally Catholic institution, I will then advise you to reinstate my name on your mailing list. 
Yours for a wholesome Catholic 
Church, 
George T. Moore '52 Chicago, III. 

I have just finished reading the October-November, 1968 issue of the ALUMNUS (Vol. 46, No. 6). 
It was with utter amazement that I realized how far the Univei-sity, or at least those closely associated with it, had moved. Either you are sin­cerely to be congratulated or I am roundly to be chastised for my foimer ignorance. In any event, I am en­closing the first alumni dues I can remember sending. 
Please stay with it. 
James A. Gammon '56 Washington, D.C. 

SHUSTER 
Dr. Shuster's approach to the en­cyclical strikes me as impropex-. He implies throughout and sometimes expresses what I would call a sub­jectivist bias. 
Some examples: "The Pope joins us in recognizing a time lag;" "I do not think that Pope Paul's moral assimip­tions are necessarily wrong;" "The authority of the Holy See has been too valuable [to us?] to make repudi­ation of it desirable;" "We would not ask the Pope to alter his moi-al posi­tion, nor would we question the priv­ilege of the magristerium." 
But it seems to me that in dealing with something so sublime as the authority of God as He Himself in­stitutionalized it, we should start from God and His man in Kome as our point of departure. We should not begin with ourselves; we should end with ourselves. Our apptoach should be: Here is a moral-doctrinal fact, carefully re-examined and force­fully reaffirmed. How now can we adjust ourselves, individually and socially, and even our physical en­vironment, to that fact? 
But when a modem intellectual finds himself confronted by an ap­parent contradiction between two facts, a moi-al-doctrinal fact and a physical fact, he feels an inclination, the tendency of our age, to resolve it by saving the physical at the expense of the doctrinal. Perhaps subjectiv­ism helps to explain this. 
It may also be that many are mis­taking this same subjectivist bias for conscience when they seek to excuse themselves from accepting a particu­larly demanding doctrinal fact. 
John Gtieguen '56; '58 University of Chicago 

Last evening X picked up the new issue of the ALUMNUS and met or rather collided with Mr. Shuster's editorial; to say I was stunned is an understatement. I could scarcely believe that the prevalent, nearly world-wide fad of resistance to authority had now penetrated even the office of the President of Notre Dame. 
We belong to a teaching Church. The commission given by Christ was to go into the world and teach. Con­stitution on the Church No. 25 states— 
"In matters of faith and morals, 
bishops speak in the name of Christ 
and the faithful are to accept their 
teaching and adhere to it with a 
religious assent of soul. This reli­
gious submission of will and mind 
must be shown in a special way 
to the authentic teaching author­
ity of the Koman Pontiff, even when 
he is not speaking ex-cathedra." 
The Pope has a mandate from 
Christ—something given to no the­ologian—nor Mr. Shuster. I believe a complete retraction is in order. 
John Cmniean '35 Chicago, 10. 

MSU BLUES 
Like many local alumni, I lost a few sheckels on the Michigan State Game. 
Attached is a photostat of a letter received from a Michigan State alumnus who manages our Detroit office. My letter referred to our char­ity in maintaining M.S.U. on the roster in the early days, etc. 
Bob Flannery '48 Cincinnati, Ohio 

Be it not my intent to knock Notre Dame For it is to them whom M. S. U. owes their fam& Biggie and Duffy and other gridiron heroes of years past Owe much to your school for their fame gained so fast. Sixteen years ago, prior to victory over the Irish Glory wasn't known and humbleness was stylish. Of course then did occur the victory so great That caused our compassion to de­generate. Please understand that we are not motivated by hate Ifs rather that "Brotherhood" hap­pens to be our fate. Being good Christians, Notre Damers must believe It is more blessed to give than it is to receive. Because of the debt which we will always owe. To that great school with the dome all aglow. 
M. S. U. will continue "with great love in its heart" 
To keep giving it to Notre Dame with all they can impart. 
Dan Steffen 
Stp fc^^ 
:vf. 

PHOTO:. DICK STEVENS 
His Day Will Come 
THI S young man, like many others, ball, hockey, tennis, track, fencing, during their two-week stay. dreams ahead to summertime. This golf, wrestling and weight training. As part of the same program year his dream may have a little The camp will be ojien to boys be­Lynn Haglund, Jliss Indiana of something special added to it. Notre tween the ages of eight and IC and 19G7, and two other skating pros Dame's Dominick Napolitano is lay­all activities will take place in the will conduct a figure-skating school ing the groundwork for some sum­spacious new Athletic and Convoca­for girls from all over the country. mertime activity that will add a tion Center. The cost of the summer camp will 
little gleam to those eyes and a little be $125 per session for local boys, 
The young men will be able to 
lightness to the youthful heart that $200 for out-of-towners. The basic 
select one or two sports in which 
beats beneath that sweater. cost for girls will be $75 per session 
they wish insti-uction and they will 
exclusive of instruction fees which "Nappy" is in the process of final­be placed in appropriate age groups. 
will vaiy according to the number izing plans for a new summer sports Local boys will be allowed to par­of hours required. 
camp to be held at ND beginning ticipate on a day-only basis but June 9. The camp will consist of those outside the immediate area w OR further infonnation contact four two-week sessions and will in­will reside in the ND dormitories Dominic Napolitano, -'Vthletic and clude individual insti-uction by ND and receive three meals a day in Convocation Center, Notre Dame, coaches in football, basketball, base­addition to other recreational activity Indiana 4C55G, 
•I 
I 





