The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
NOTRE DAME 
mmsmm 
September 1968 
THE WARRIOR and HIS GAME 
-^^^ 
.'•?W-• 
'P^­
Hi 



Aluniui Ask 

"I believe that a Christian is one who does in every circumstance what he believes Jesus would do 
. . .J have never been able to picture Jesus with a gun or flying
if He were in the same position. 
a bomber ready to kill " 

MORE ABOUT VIET WAR Ed Banks '58 suggests that those who doubt his words about the con­duct of the war in Vietnam, conse­quently are disgusted by the immoral­ity of our participation in that con­flict, go over there and see for themselves. I suggest his description and his avo%val of having deliberately ordered artillery fire which resulted in the slaughter of innocent men, women and children more than justifies the concern felt by millions of Americans, including the late Senator Robert F. Kennedy and Senator Eugene McCar­thy, over the moral erosion that we have suffered as a result of our par­ticipation. It is certainly a peculiar kind of moral courage and devotion to free­dom that leads our soldiers to kill in­nocent civilians to save their own necks. This is essentially what was accomplished by the artillery fire of which Banks speaks. To what extent were those killed beneficiaries of this self-styled Amer­ican struggle to extend the rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happi­ness to all the world? Those who are willing to give their own lives to ex­tend these rights are certainly to be commended but those who feel en­titled to take the lives of others, par­ticularly others who pose no threat to these rights, must be condemned in the strongest terms. Banks' attempt to justify his and our country's conduct in Vietnam with the assertion that the other side is doing the same thing or even worse will hardly satisfy the consciences of those who have been deeply concerned about our nation's posture in this bloody conflict. 
Although one hears much about the alleged "muddled thinking" of the present generation of ND students and the need for a return to the "old­time" discipline, Banks' comments make me wonder. The present gen­eration, at least, does not engage in such moral g>-mnastics. If Banks' letter is symptomatic of the type of thinking produced by the older discipline, then I for one must say "Thank God Notre Dame has changed." 
—Lawrence J. Bradley '60, '62 Notre Dame 
I would like to reply to Ed Banks' letter in the .July-August issue of the ALUMNUS, since it appears to be ad­dressed to me among others, as I am a conscientious objector to war. 
Bypassing the issue of the Vietnam war for the moment, I would like to point out that conscientious objec­tion goes far beyond any particular war. It says that war, any war, is in­trinsically evil and immoral and is not based on an objection to certain military tactics, the killing of civilians, etc. For myself, it is based on a belief and trust in Jesus Christ, the Prince of 
Peace. 
I believe that a Christian is one who does in every circumstance what he believes Jesus would do if He were in the same position. In my frequent reading of the New Testament, I have never been able to picture Jesus with a gun or flying a bomber ready to kill and thus I refuse to do it either. When Jesus died for you and me on the cross, he knew it was an injustice and yet he accepted it (and thereby overcame it). 
I am not a Communist by any means and I might even be willing to agree that the US forces are fighting ruthless, calculating, unscrupulous and unethical people in Vietnam and a host of other places. What I am say­ing is that the noun is more important than the adjectives — the fact they are people is more important than that they are ruthless, calculating, un­scrupulous and unethical. And I, for one, refuse to kill them or anyone else. 
—Desmond iawler, '68 Valley College, NY 
The ALUMNUS welcomes all letters regarding the University and its Alumni but reserves the right to edit them to meet space limitations. Short letters stand the best chance of publication. 
ABOUT PATRIO-nSM AWARD 
I read with a great deal of interest the May, 1968, issue of the ALUM­NUS. The story on changing the senior award probably gave me as big a jolt as I have received in a long time, "rhe article said, "Because of continued criticism of the award and its man­agement, and the difficulty of deter­mining what patriotism really means 
99 
I read this several times and so did several other ND Alumni members in the Chicago area, to see if I was read­ing it correctly. It seems to me that if the seniors at ND and the adminis­tration have difficulty in determining what patriotism is, then we have come to the end of the rope. It seems in­credible that ND, the ND we know, could even question for a moment what patriotism means. There are so many examples of ND men's patrio­tism in time of war and out of war in service to their country in many, many ways. This really hit an all-time low. 
I have no objection at all, as a matter of fact, since the alternate pro­posal is an excellent idea, but it should be done in addition to the Patriotism Award and not as a sub­stitute for it. If this is interpreted as "flag waving," so be it. I ^all con­tinue to wave that flag and I shall continue to tip my hat at the door to Sacred Heart Church which reads 
very simply, "For God, Country and Notre Dame." 
—Arthur L. Conrad *35 Bensenville, III, 
BRADEMAS AND SUMMA I received in the mail from US Rep. John Brademas of Indiana a copy of a speech he delivered in Congress re­siding the success of SUMMA. Although I am not so ungrateful as to completely dismiss the speech, I would like to question the maimer of its distribution. 
Several facts indicate the speech was not the product of any spontane­ous outpouring of goodwill towards the University. On the contrary, these facts indicate a significant amount of collusion brought forward the speech and its subsequent distribution. First, "information" for the speech was pro­vided by Notre Dame; it should be pointed out that the University de­nies actually writing the speech. 

Second, the envelopes containing the speech were addressed at ND at ND's cost. "Third, ND paid the speech's printing cost of over $700. Indeed, the speech was "not printed at goverimient expense." 
After some reflection, these facts show Brademas' concern for ND to be minimal; he had nothing to do with paying for the speech, little to do with mailing it, while having little personal familiarity with the subject matter of the address. Is there any­thing left concerning the speech that could be wholly attributed to Brade­mas? 
Well, yes, we must credit him for delaying the speech's delivery for an opportune moment as regards his own candidacy in Indiana's 'Third District (where many members of the ND fam­ily vote). Why did Brademas wait until SUMM.\ was eight months old and over 60 percent on its way to completion? Was it because he did not share ND's faith and vision from the start? Or at that time wasn't it close enough to send off some expo­sure material to a special interest group in his constituency? 
Admittedly, an incumbent nomi­nee has certain advantages in seek­ing election, but those advantages are of his own office and not those of private individuals or corporations. "There comes a time in every election year when we should be wary of our office seekers. I think we have passed that point already. We should, how­ever, not fault the Alumni Office for failing to observe the point where Brademas becomes the office seeker, because Brademas himself doesn't know the diflference between being a perpetual candidate and a member of Congress. I believe Brademas owes the ND family an apology. 
—Michael Schaefer 'Sf Soufh Bend 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1968 
VoL 46 No. 5 
Septonbcr, 1968 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION omaRS 

Ambroje F. Dudley Jr '43 HOMOUKV FteSmENT Richard A. RoKntlial '54 
BlESIDENT William D. Kavanaugh '27 ViCE-PtaSIDENT William F. Kenrin Jr '40 VlCE-P»ESIDDIT Leo V. Tuigcon '42 • VlCE-PkESIDINT James D. Cooney '59 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 
MAGAZINE STAFF 

John P. Thurin '59 EDITOR Tom Sullivan '66 MANAGING EDITOK June Shassere 
^ASSISTANT EDITOR Sheila Dtcrks Jcannine Doty 
EDITORIAL AssiSTAifTS 

M. Bruce Harlan '49 CHIEF PHOTOGRAPHER 
ALUMNI BOARD OF DIREaORS 
DIREaORS TO 1969 

William D. Karnaugh '27 CONTINUING EDUCATION, FACULTY RELATIONS, NOMINATIONS 3445 Ordivay St. NW Washington, DC 20016 
William F . Kerwin Jr '40 ADMISSIONS, REUGION AND CITIZENSHIP 1108 Emilie St. Green Bay, Wis. 34301 
Richard A. RiKenthal '54 EXECUTIVE, NOMINATIONS P.O. Box 200 South Bend, Ind. 46624 
Leo V. TuigeoD '42 CLUBS 3731 Stockcr St. LOS Angeles, Calif. 9000S 
DIREaORS TO 1970 

Edward G. Cantwell '24 PuBuc RELATIONS AND DE^XLOPMENT 700 Binns Blvd. Columbus, Ohio 43204 
EdH-ard B. Fitzpatrick Jr '54 STUDENT AFFAIRS 5 The Maples Roslyn Estates, NY 11576 
John J. Reidy '27 ACADEMIC AFFAIRS 11850 Edgeu-ater Dr. LaLetfood, Ohio 44107 
Leonard H. Skoglund '38 ATHLETIC, SENATE RELATIONS 426 Dover Ave. LaGrange Park, HI. 60525 
DIREaORS TO 1971 

W. Jerome Kane '38 P.O. Box 3707 Seatde, Wash. 98124 
Walter M. Langford '30 1315 Otsego St. South Bend, Ind. 46617 
Donald F. O'Brien '42 1113 Rocky River Rd. Houston, Texas 77002 
Francis J. Wilson '28 6105 Howe St. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219 

Editorial 
ALL IN FAVOR SAY AYE 
TH E REVISED N D Alumni Association Constitution, offered for mem­
bership ratification in this issue, is the result of a two-year inventory 
of Association affairs and dreams by the Alumni Board. It replaces a 
document authored in 1956. Substantial changes in the new Constitution 
involve the creation of the Alumni Senate and revised procedures for 
electing Alumni Board members. The Senate, while still in its infancy, 
is nevertheless a reality. It provides a much more effective and consistent 
line of communication from the governing body of the Association down 
to grass roots level and back again. 

The Senate is a rather unprecedented concept in University affairs, 
granting a much larger and broadly representative group of Alumni a 
distinct voice in life of the Association as well as a specific forum through 
which their attitudes, concerns and interests can be articulated to the 
University. While the technological and intellectual advancements of our 
time are immense, communications remain an old bugaboo in the most 
sophisticated organizations. As universities become more and more com­
plex, the need for untrammeled transmission of information becomes im­
perative. The Senate is a major step in that direction. 
Allied to, and a part of, our attempts to improve communications is the effort to e-xpand involvement of Alumni in the life, growth and devel­opment of the University. The National Alumni Board has earned great merit in this respect from its earliest years, ranging from establishment of the first endowment fund in the '20s through the creation of studoit re­cruitment and placement programs in the '30s. The 1947 creation of the ND Foundation (which has channeled 100 million voluntary dollars into the University) will always remain one of the Board's most forward-looking accomplishments. And we view the creation of the Senate, with all the vast potential in terms of the comprehension and involvement which it entails, as equally significant. In these ways, the National Alumni Board has served the Association and the University eminently well. 
The revised Constitution will expand the Alumni Board from its cur­rent 13 members (four elected each year for three-year terms, with the outgoing president becoming honorary president) to a total complement of 16. Under the new procedure, five Board members shall be elected each year. They shall serve three-year terms (as in the past) with the outgoing president assuming honorary status for one year. The most sig­nificant aspect of this change is not simply the slight numerical increase of Board members, but in the mechanics of election. As stated in the new document, the US shall be divided into 15 regions, with five regions up for Board representation each year. Two candidates will vie for election in these regions, with one to be elected in such manner that in the future the Alumni Board shall be composed at any given time of men repre­senting every region. 
This will grant full representation on the Board for the first time in the Association's 100-year history. The regional system established for Alumni Board representation will govern Senate procedures as well, with senators meeting at least once a year on a regional basis. Other changes in the Constitution basically reflect an updating of a 10-year-old document and are less substantive than technical. All in all the document projxBed bodes well for a future of more intimate and mutually meaningful Univer­sity-Alumni relations. Your affirmative vote can start the ball rolling. 
—James D. Cconey '59 
Fxecufive Secretary 
Notre Dame Alumni Aisoclatlon 

1968 Notre Dame ALUMNUS, Univeisity of Notre Dame, all rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written pennission is prohibited. 
The Notre Dame ALUMNUS is published eight times a year by the University of Notre Dame. Second.class postage paid at Notre Dame, IN 46556. 


The Universiti/ 

MOTORS ARE REVVED AND AIAAED AT ND Time for buying books, cutting hair, tooting horns and even studying. 

It's That Time Again 
 SUMMER ^\aNDs tum to autumn 

As 
breezes and ND prepares to com­
mence its 126th year, the prospects for 
continued growth and activity glow 
ever-brighter. On tap for stints in 
the spotiight are the '68 edition of 
the football Fighting Irish, slated for 
six home appearances this fall; the 
completion of a number of construc­
tion projects, highlighted by the gala 
dedication of the new Athletic and 
Convocation Center; and an increas­
ing number of seminars, conferences 
and distinguished visitors. 
The 1550 freshmen scheduled to 
arrive for three days of orientation 
beginning Sept. 13 will find the place 
in readiness and their baptism to the 
college realm will continue through­
out the year. This year's class is smal­
ler than the record 1630 of last year, 
partly because the frosh failure rate 
was a minimal one and a half jjercent 
and the space is limited. Total en­
rollment is expected to surpass last 
year's 7500 figure and will include 
6200 undergraduates, 270 law stu­
dents and an estimated 1200 graduate 
students. 
Each class brings with it a set of 
super-credentials and the '72ers are 
no exception. Over half of them 
ranked in the top tenth of their high 
school graduating classes, an ND first. 
Better than 80 percent were in the 
top fifth. Scholarship honors %vent to 
22 percent of the group while more 
than 56 percent of the students were members of the National Honor So­ciety. The average Scholastic Apti­tude Test scores for this year's frosh rose to 577 verbal and 622 math. 
In keeping with the ND tradition, academic capabilities, although of prime imjKjrtance, were not the sole criterion in choosing freshmen. There are 163 students entering who were active as president of either their stu­dent body or senior class. Journalistic prowess at ND should be enhanced by the 99 members of the class of '72 who were high school paper or year­book editors. 
The Irish athletic staff should have a lot to choose from next year as more than 75 percent of the incoming class earned at least one major letter. Out of the 1484 letters, 350 were earned in football, 240 in basketball, 301 in track and cross country, 174 in base­ball, 113 in golf, 68 in wresding and 66 in tennis. 
Swiming and soccer totalled 58 and 41 respectively, with 73 more coming in various other sports. Leadership on the athletic fields will not be lacking either as 295 or 19 percent of the class captained or co-captained a team in high school. 
New faculty members will also be a part of the changing scene at Notre Dame. Two new deans will greet die student body at Sept. 18 resumption of clstsses. Frederick J. Crosson, long­time professor in the general program, will assume the leadership of the Col-
AlUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1968 

lege of Arts and Letters. William B. Lawless, former Justice of the Su­preme Court of New York, will take over the reins of the Law School. 
In departmental changes James E. Robinson has moved in to head the English department, while Timothy 
O. O'Meara returns to die chairman­ship of the math department. 
The academic realm will witness the arrival of 110 new faculty mem­bers and 23 returnees. Thirty-one will begin leaves of absences in Septem­ber while 103 will depart permanently. 
Fighting Irish football fortunes will be subject to the scrutiny of the home forces six times this fall, the first time in many a year that their exploits will be so accessible. Oklahoma begins the show with a Sept. 21 visit to ND Stadium followed by Purdue the 28th, an Oct. 12 date with Northwestern, Illinois Oct. 19 and concluding bat­tles with Pittsburgh and Georgia Tech Nov. 9 and 16. 
The twin big-tops, other^vise known as the Athletic and Convocation Center, that have been gradually tak­ing shape east of the stadium over the past two years are currently in the final construction phases and should be ready for student use sometime in October. 
The opening of the new center is scheduled as an eight-day spectacular in early December including visits by a number of top entertainers, but the 
Continued on page 6 

ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1968 
We Need 'Community Power' 
IN A FEW DAYS, the 126th academic year will commence sX ' Notre Dame. And, like the preceding 125 years, this one must remdn relevant to its time in liistcMry. A new system, yet embryonic in concept, will foe employed to assure a year dedicated to "community power," and not fragmented in student power, faculty power or administration power. The 125 years of building, developing and perfecting will nurture well the embryonic concept. 
Last spring an ad hoc committee of the Board of Trustees, in cooperation with student, faculty and administrative rep­resentatives, authored a tripartite formula for governing life on Campus. The formula called for establishment of a Uni­versity Student Life Council, equally represented by students, faculty and administrators. The Council will be charged with setting forth poUcies governing virtually every aspect of stu­dent life. 
Infractions of rules of conduct mil be adjudicated by a similar group of student, faculty and administrative rep­resentatives. The administration, in the person of the Presi­dent, will ret ^ veto power over the actions of the group, since it is recognized that certain responsibilities of the ad­ministration cannot be delegated. The President's veto power is subject to review by the Board of Trustees. 
It has long been recognized that all segments of the Uni­versity community have made, and will continue to make, significant contributions toward the betterment of Notre Dame. The new system has every prospect of improving the atmosphere in which all members of the' community work for the common goal. 
In tune with the new structures created oa the Campus, the revised organizational plan of the Alumni Association (an expanded Board and the Alumni Senate) is geared toward greater counsel with the administration, closer association with the faculty and a deeper understanding of student and Alumni thinking. 
Undoubtedly the spirit of "cooperation" will be tested repeatedly throughout the academic year. Maturity will be required to resolve conflicts, refine piolides and [lerhaps revise organizational structure. Based on last spring's beginning, there is every reason to believe that the attitude of cooperation will prevail. 
No laboratory can boast a successful experiment rate of 100 percent. In many respects, the University is like a lab­oratory. The new organizational concept will have its share of successes, but temporary problems should not frustrate the whole system. 
A 125-year history has been a great teacher. It has demon­strated that faith in the Notre Dame family is indeed well placed, that maturity, patience and imderstanding are the virtues of greatness. Adequate employment of these virtues will make the 126th academic year the year of community power. 
—Richard A. Roitnlhal 'S4, fr»sidtnl 
Noln Ooni* Alvmni Assochlion 
I f s That Time Again 
Continued from page 5 
highlight of the whole show is ex­pected to be the invasion of the new basketball arena by Lew Alcindor and his UCLA teammates on December 5. Johnny Dee's forces ^vill attempt to gain some measure of revenge for earlier shellackings at the hands of the New York City giant and his crew, and it just might happen wth the addition of last year's frosh squad to the solid nucleus which earned NIT recognition. 
Also in full swing in the new build­ing category is the Lobund Laboratory in its new location. The federally-financed Hayes-Healy Hall for gradu­ate study in business is set to open this f alL 
Upon arrival ND students may be surprised to find a revamped student manual written by a tripartite group of students, faculty and administrators, and which has been designed to guide the student body in its pursuit of Christian and academic wisdom in the Notre Dame Cormnunity. New sjjecifications covering student demon­strations, student rights, publications and speakers have been detailed. 
In keeping with University policy it has been decided that ND students shall be allowed to invite any person of their own choosing to speak on the campus, providing that it does not disrupt the regular and essential oper­ation of the University. 
All ND student publications \vill henceforth be subject to a review board composed of two faculty mem­bers, two members of the administra­tion and two students, the purpose being to assure that student editors serve the community in a responsible maimer. Regarding student demon­strations the manual specifies that all ND demonstrations must be registered with the Dean of Students, must be peaceful, must include ND com­munity members only, and must not imjjede the freedom of the University. 
Another feature of the new manual is a student rights section which spells out student freedoms regarding the violation of University regulations. Also of note this year is the fact that second semester seniors living on campus will be allowed to have cars. Further, the entertainment of women in dorm rooms is explicitly forbidden except on approved occasions. The use, possession or distribution of nar­cotics is also prohibited. 
Also of note in the '68-'69 manual is a complete revamping of class attendence regulations. Judgement concerning absences will be left up to the individual instructor. 
As the winter sports season draws near hockey fans should get the itch in light of the fact that ND will field its first full-fledged, varsity-coached, honest - to - goodness hockey team. Coaches Lefty Smith and Tim Mc­Neil, both from St. Thomas Collie, have been recruited to lead the Blue and Gold rinksmen through a 29­game schedule. The completion of the new ACC rink with a seating capacity of more than 2,000 will assure ND fans the opportunity to witness the development of another fine athletic team. 
The parade of notables scheduled to be on the ND campus gets under­way early this fall when politicians Samuel Yorty, Mayor of Los Angeles, and Gfovemor Claude Kirk of Florida speaL Senator Strom Thurmond, entertainer Harry Belafonte, and LSD aposde Timothy Leary will also make the scene. 
Bill Russell and his fabulous Boston Celtics will conduct a basketball clinic later in the fall, and author Jules Bergman and philosopher Francois Mitterand will also be on Campus. Safety critic Ralph Nader, historian Ted Sorenson and psychedelic prophet Alan Ginsberg will also air their views for the ND community during the year. A scheduled Black Power Con­ference will feature Adam Clayton Powell and Dick Gregory. 
All in all it shapes up to be an 
active year in the shadow of the 
Golden Dome. 


New Associate Dean 
An associate dean has been named and a new building and possible or­ganizational changes are afoot in the College of Engineering. 
Dr. Edward Jerger, chairman of the mechanical engineering department since 1963, began work as associate dean Sept. 1. Dr. Jerger will assist Dean Joseph Hogan in the adminis­tration of the College of Engineering which is experiencing rapid growth in its graduate and research programs. 
Jerger, a 1946 Marquette U. grad­uate, is a specialist in thermal systems. He received his MS from the U. of Wisconsin and was awarded a PhD from Iowa State U. 
A space shortage in the College of Engineering has signaled the proposal of a new building to augment current facilities. Plans call for a $4,500,000 building to house the departments of chemical, electrical and metallurgical engineering, engineering science and administrative offices. The construc­tion of the building will double space available to the College. The cost of the building is included in the SUMMA campaign budget. 
Dean Hogan has announced the possible implementation of a core curriculum study which was con­ducted by the engineering faculty last year. If approved, the plan \vill allow for the establishment of a basic core of study for all freshman engineers, regardless of specialization. The pro­posed plan would eliminate duplica­tion, reduce the credit requirement from the current 140 hours or more to 127 or 128, and allow all freshman engineers a common basis of study. 
With more than 1500 students en­rolled in the College, further organiza­tional changes may be necessary in the future, Hogan feels. 

DEAN JERGER PROPOSED BUILDING DEAN HOGAN Big plans call for more engineering. 
Land O'Lakes Livin' 
Come picnic season everybody's look­
ing for a grassy spot. But Notre 
Dame's got one all sewed up and it's 
just a short jaunt via the crow's route 
to the 5500 acres the University owns 
along the Michigan-Wisconsin border. 
It is to be developied as both a con­
ference and recreation site and as a 
research area, so it won't be just a 
picnic. 
The property, bequeathed to ND 
in 1943 by Martin Gillen, a native of 
Wisconsin who became a successful 
corporation financial adviser in NYC, 
consists of several lakes, second-growth 
timber and stretches of swampland, 
most of it untouched by man. Several 
forms of wildlife, especially deer, are 
plentiful. The nearest town is Land 

O'Lakes, AVis., about 20 miles to the 
southeast. 
A complex of buildings built by Gillen on Tenderfoot Lake's Killamey Point has been used in recent years by the University as a remote con­ference site. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, ND president, has periodically used it for meetings of the US Civil Rights Commission of which he is a member as well as for gather­ings of ND trustees and advisory council members. The site gained some attention last summer when a prestigious group of Catholic educa­tors met there, and drafted a forward-looking statement (now known as the Land O' Lakes statement) on the nature of the Catholic university. 
Strict plans are being drawn so the recreational purposes of the land wll not interfere with the natural environ­ment so valuable to researchers in zoology, ecolog)', forestry and other fields. Biologists from ND and the U. of Michigan are currently studying lake ecolog)' in the area and, \vith the development of some basic re­search facilities, ND hopes to attract research by other Midwest universities on a cooperative basis. Tentative plans call for building research facil­ities on the northeast side of Tender­foot Lake near a present camp used by Moreau Seminary. 
Rev. Paul G. Wendel CSC, assistant vice-president for business affairs, will oversee recreation and conference uses of the property and Dr. Robert E. Gordon, a biologist who is associate dean of the College of Science, will supervise research activities. 

Trustees Elect Grimm 
Roland D. Grimm, president of En­dowment Management and Research Corp. in Boston, has been elected to the University Board of Trustees. 
Grimm, who received his BA from Yale U. in 1950 and an MA from 
AlUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1968 
GRIAAM New ND trustee. 

Columbia U. in 1951, has headed En­
dowment Management and Research 
CorpMjration (EMRC) since its in­
corporation in September of 1967 to 
specialize in investment management 
and advisory services. Yale is the 
principal shareholder of EMRC and, 
%vith its various endowment and other 
funds, is the firm's largest client. 
Grimm was formerly employe 1 by 

Fidelity Management and R rch 
Co. in Boston and was vice-prcjiJent 
of certain funds in the Fidelity group 
with primary responsibility for the 
portfolio management of Fidelity 
Fund, Inc., and Contrafund, Inc. 
His business activities include the following: director, EMRC and Rogerson House; trustee and corjior­ator, Charlestown Savings Bank; in­corporator. The Provident Institution for Savings; corporator. New England Center Hospital and New England Deaconess Hospital; and director and treasurer, Lend-A-Hand Society. 
He and his wife, Lucy Lowell Grimm, and their three children live in Westwood, Mass. His election brings the number of Notre Dame trustees to 37, including 30 laymen and seven priests. 

Year's Grants Total $7 Milliin 
ND received $7,100,673 for research, sponsored educational programs, ser­vice programs and facilities and equipment during the last fiscal year according to a report by Dr. Frederick 
D. Rossini, vice-president for research and sponsored programs. 
The figure is under the $12,056,314 total for 1966-67, but that included a National Science Foundation Science Development grant of $4.7 million, . Rossini jjointed out 
The 1967-68 figure breaks down this way: $5,794,433 for research; $525,783 for facilities and equipment; $699,850 for educational programs; and $80,607 for service programs such as Upward Bound. 
University oiganizations receiving the bulk of the grants were the Col­li e of Science, $2,453,473; the Ra­diation Laboratory, $1,539,503; the College of Engineering, $1,354,244, the Collie of A^ and Letters, $763,­457; and the Graduate School, $708,797. 
US government agencies were re­sponsible for $6,521,893 and private agencies for $578,780. Major govern­ment sources were the Atomic Energy Commission (which supports the Ra­diation Laboratory), the NSF, the Navy, the National Institutes of Health and the OflBce of Education. The major source of private funds were philanthropic foundations (which gave $367,962). 

School Studies Show Decreases 
NU s OflBce of Educational Research has completed studies of Catholic school systems in Denver and Sag­inaw, Mich, which provide an indi­cation of trends in Catholic elemen­tary and secondary education. 
In both Denver, with 21,980 stu­

dents in Catholic schools, and Sag­
inaw, with 6458 students, enrollments 
have shown a decrease within the 
last five years — seven percent in 
Denver and three percent in Sag­
inaw. 
In both areas students revealed 

levels of religious practice and reli­
gious understanding which compare 
favorably with national averages. 
However both reports pointed out that "in matters not always considered religious, such as conunitment to working for the improvement of man's life on earth and openness to the differing beliefs of others," the Denver and Saginaw students did somewhat less well, indicating their schools "could be more strongly em­phasizing the commitment to the world which Vatican II so strongly urged." 
The recommendations in these two reports differed as they related to the individual needs of the two diocesan organizations imder consideration. There were, however, some common reconunendations: 
—^Increased teacher specialization and centralized services to many schools. 
—^Improved teacher quality through hiring practices requiring and paying for appropriate academic degrees and continual evaluation of cost-saving teaching aids. 
—^Establishment of Regional Coun­cils for Catholic Education to advise school boards and serve as infcwma­tion agencies in reaching the broad public and as grassroots reflectors of opinion. 
^ 
—Shift of parish high schools to 
diocesan control to be financed by 
weighted parish assessments. 
—^Establishment of tuition and fees 
common to all elementary and sec­
ondary schools in the diocese or arch­
diocese and formation of an equaliza­
tion fund to help poor parishes sup­
port their elementary schools. 
—Greater attention to cooperation 
between public and Catholic schools 
and consolidation and cooperative use 
of elementar)' facilities along with de­
velopment of an adequate program 
of religious education for children not 
affected by the formal Catholic 
school. 
—In short, the future of Catholic 
education involves increasing central­
ization of planning, programming and 
budgeting. 


Sex Revolution Is Attltudlnal 
The sexual revolution among college students is apparently more one of attitude than of behavior, according to Dr. Robert L. Hassenger '59. A specialist in the sociology of educa­tion. Professor Hassenger told a La­fayette, La. conference on "The Learner in Contemporary Society" that "it is difficult to know to what extent behavioral changes have ac­companied new standards in picture and print." 
Citing the philosophy of Hugh Hefner's Playboy empire, Hassenger said some observers believe "the sound and fury betoken a kind of spectator sex, but very little real ac­tion." 
He listed tliree main influences on current campus sexual behavior: the redefinition of women's sexual role which has increasingly separated her identity from that of the traditional child-rearer and homemaker; a great­er tolerance for sexual deviancy, par­ticularly homosexuality; and the in­troduction of personalistic ethics as standards for sexual behavior, chang­ing the criterion from "is it wrong?" to "is it meaningful?" 

"There is little support in the available data for charges of wide­spread promiscuity among college students," the sociologist said, adding "there are solid reasons to suggest there has been no sexual revolution in our time, certainly no changes of dramatic proportions." 
However, one of the dangers in contemf)orary sex attitudes, according to Hassenger, is "a search for sex as a means to 'fulfillment,' but not in­volving love and commitment. Those who need to prove their acceptability or desirability often seem hooked on a kind of compulsive sexuality which appears rather joyless." 
DOPE PAUL'S recent encyclical, 
Humanae Vitae, which reiterated 
the Church's opposition to artificial 
birth control, is destined to become 
a document dwarfed in size by 
commentaries on it. 
One need not take sides in the 
debate to point out one result of 
the controversy which should be 
lamented by all: the exacerbation 
of the already-existing tension be-
t\veen the American hierarchy and 
Catholic higher education. 
While not claiming to represent an institutional (or even a depart­mental) consensus, academicians at several prominent Catholic colleges, universities and seminaries have taken sharp issue with the Pope. On some campuses other professors have risen to defend the authority of the papacy, but one can detect in the statements of numerous American bishops a sense of dismay at dissenting scholars. 
The root of this estrangement has been previously pointed out by perceptive historians such as ND's Dr. Philip Gleason, who has vmtten that American Catholic higher education for some time saw its function not as the discovery of new knowledge, especially in the­ology, but instead as the in­culcation in students of a previ­ously-arrived-at synthesis of secular knowledge and religious truth. A shift has taken place in Catholic higher education's self-definition, but most of the nation's bishops still perceive its role in the older terms. 
The extent of this shift in self-definition can be seen in two sentences in a statement on the nature of the contemporary Cath­olic imiversity drafted at Land O'Lakes, Wis. in May, 1967 by a group of prominent Catholic ed­ucators (including Father Hes-burgh). The sentences are: 
1) "To perform its teaching and research functions effectively the Catholic university must have a true autonomy and academic free­dom in the face of authority of any kind, lay or clerical, external to the academic community itself." 
2) "The (Catiiolic) university 
DICK CONKLIN '59 on 



HUMANAE VITAE 
should carry on a continual ex­
amination of all aspects and all 
activities of the Church and should 
objectively evaluate them." 
In these sentences is contained 
a basic justification for the Catholic 
college teacher—be he a sociologist 
or a moral theologian—to go on 
record against a Papal encyclical. 
Although two bishops (the late 
Paul Hallinan and John J. 
Dougherty, president of Seton 
Hall) signed the Land O'Lakes 
statement, it would not be unfair 
to say the vast majority of the 
American hierarchy would have 
grave reservations about it. 
Perhaps for this reason. Father Hesburgh chose the nature of the Catholic university as the topic of a short talk he gave to some 50 American bishops at a private dinner preceding their Episcopal Theology Seminar on Campus in July. He frankly admitted the Catholic university would at times appear to the bishops as "a burr under the saddle or, worse yet, as traitorous." He asked for a for­bearance bom of an understanding of the context of academic freedom in which any Catholic university must live to achieve greatness. 

Proponents of the autonomous Catholic university, sponsored but not controlled by the Church, argue that only this kind of a uni­versity can be of real value to the post-Vatican II Pilgrim Church. 
"It is not the job of the Catholic university to make pronouncements on behalf of the Church, but it is its job to study serious social and moral questions—^and it should con­tinue to do so," Dr. George Shuster replied when asked his reaction. It ^vas Shuster who organized a few years ago some of the first gatherings of scholars to discuss, under Cath­olic auspices, population control. 
While quite obviously not with­out its attendant problems, Shuster's thesis does have solid (Evidence to support its service­ability. It would be a mistake to forget that many of the doctrines developed at Vatican II—notably 
religious freedom -gestated in Catholic scholarship. 
J 
BOOKS 

The Timing was Terrific... or Terrible? 
Rev. John A. O'Brien wrote Fanuly Planning in an Exploding Population a year ago but it was off the press just days before Pope PauVs now-famous Humanae Vitae was read. Before it was in the bookstores. Father O'Brien's latest work was ac­claimed by scientists, scholars and theologians. But with the Pope's ban on contraception coming so shortly after the book's publication (Hawthorne Books, NYC, 222 pp., $5S5), it was impossible to read without taking the encyclical into considera­tion. So the ALUMNUS asked two Alumni to review the book. Dr. Daniel J. Bradley '28, a gynecologist and obstretician in Amityville, NY, is the spokesman for the liberal point of view and Richard W. Murphy '58, attorney and president of the ND Club of Boston, expresses the more conservative opinion. 
Meanwhile on Campus staff members have been much sought after for their opinions on the encyclical. The University has made no official statement, but some faculty members have made their opinions known via the press. Rev. John L. McKenzie SJ, stated there is nothing in Scripture to support the Pope's de­cision and added, "The practical outcome of the encyclical is that it's going to be very widely ignored, by both priests and laity. And the reason is that it stands in direct opposition iO a rather wide moral consensus." 
Rev. James T. Burtchaell CSC '56, chairman of the theology department, told Newsweek magazine, "Birth control hasn't been an issue here for years," and added "The Pope, I think, is a victim of the overexpectation everyone has of the papacy, namely, that it ought to be able to solve every crisis right away even if it hasn't the answer. On this particular issue we see the 
whole system felling on its face. W^vt never examined the 
limits of ecclesiastical responsibility. This wUl force the issue." 
Dr. William V. VAnlonio, chairman of the sociology depart­ment, described the encyclical as "another in this year's list of unbelievable events" and called upon Catholics to ignore the Pope's reaffirmation of traditional birth control policy in favor of "freedom of conscience in family planning.". 
Though a count of "sides!" has not been taken, faculty mem­bers who favor the Pope's stand do not appear so numerous — or at least are not so vocal. Ten faculty members addressed themselves to the letters-to-the-editor column of The South Bend Tribune, however, saying, "Freedom of theological inquiry is appropriate to the University, but glib readiness to enter into public contention with a much deliberated papal teaching is neither a necessary part of theological inquiry nor characteristic of a serious Catholic." 
Rev. E. D. O'Connor CSC '44, in another letter to the editor. Stated "It is the Catholic belief that Christ did give to Peter and his successors authority to make decisions which bind the members of the Church in conscience. . . . It is not out of con­formism or fear or complacency that we accept the teachings of our Pope. We know as well as anyone the exhilaration of intel­lectual research and the frailty of human conclusions. . . . But our faith makes us rely with confidence. . . This is a hard faith perhaps; but if a person professes Catholicism, he must accept its consequences....To say the Pope can't decide matters debated among theologians is like saying that an umpire can't make a ruling until both teams agree with him." 
A Review from One View... 
Humanae Vitae not^vithstanding, the facts and theories set forth in this book must be considered and argued by Catholics. 
Rev. John L. McKenzie SJ in his Authority in the Church points out the nature of authority and the use of authority in the Church are deter­mined by the mission of the Church: to proclaim the gospel. Nowhere in the gospel is contraception considered. 
The New Testament is strangely silent both on commissions to com­mand and on exhortations to obedi­ence and submissiveness. Authority in the New Testament is democratic and 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 19iS3 
FATHER O'BRIEN In the middle. 

Humanae Vitae's genesis was not dem­ocratic. 
The book breaks no new ground but is rather a collection of previously published essays by a number of authors dealing with exploding p<^ ulation and family planning. 
The essays are divided into four groups. The first rather repetitiously rehearses all the demographic fac^ 
RICHARD MURPHY 
From the right. 

about exploding population. They are convincing enough for any but the segment of Catholic thought that (it seems) gleefully wants to see fornicat­ing mankind standing on one another's shoulders eating plankton and sea­weed. 
Part two is devoted to family plan­ning. Father O'Brien is to be con­gratulated for being first to bring at least the rhythm dieoiy to the be­leaguered Catholics. The hierarchy is to be deprecated for its lack of inter­est initiative and actual resistance to research in this (their own only ap­proved) method. I can add my per­sonal testimony to this callous lack of concern. A poignant Senate hearing 
reveals rhythm's shortcomings in so­phisticated hands. This highlights the utter stupidity of suggesting its use among the bulk of the world's popula­tion. As one who has worked among the Guatemalan Indians and in Phil­ippine barrios, I can confirm this. 
Part three deals wt h the govern­ment's role and contains the bishops' statement containing an unsubstanti­ated accusation of pressure by govern­ment. 
Part four setting forth some liberal Catholic viewpoints has been pretty well stymied by Humanae Vitae (that's living?). 

A comment on this sad document is indicated. Hans Kiing in The Church ptoints out that a pope can­not have everybody out of step but himself. Paul has ignored the working of the Spirit in the whole Church, so has fallen into the grievous error of denying that a God who gives man an intelligence wt h which he can upset the ecology of the globe by suppressing diseases and improving nutrition, would deny him the use of that ra­tionality to right the population im­balance. I deny that by permitting excess fecundity to further depress the imdeveloped world anything can be added to human dignity. 
And as usual, never a thought to women, "sons and brothers" for­sooth! How about daughters? Vir­ginia WoolfT once said "Anonymous was a woman." She surely is to the hierarchy. They can be oh-so-prudent when it comes to apartheid or atom war but where women are concerned, woof! And how about some Christian charity for the Protestants? It is out­rageous to insult them and all others outside the Church by inferring that, when in the light of their conscience they use contraception, they are living in an. 
Finally, as his type of authority is unscriptural, so Paul's stance on con­traception is unscriptural. 
John's two great encyclicals en-, faanced and spread Papal influence far beyond the Church. This sorry missive will separate the educated from the Church as effectively as the Church's lack of concern for the worker sep­arated them from it in the nineteenth century. 
—Daniel J. Bradley MO '28 

.. . And Another 
At first I wondered why I •was the ob­ject of so many strange stares while reading this book on a Cape Cod beach during my recent vacation. Then it davtmed on me that it was rather inconsistent for a man vrith six Idds imder age seven, crawling all over him in the sand, to be reading a 
book on "Family Planning. . . ." 
The book presents a vigorous and 
convincing argument in favor of fam­
ily planning, birth control and the dis­
tribution and applicaticm of such 
knowledge throughout the world. 
Scholarly contributors from diverse 
fields lend a balanced and scientific 
touch to Father O'Brien's liberal view­
point 

The first part of the book dealing with the imminent dangers of a "run­away population" sets the tone for the whole book. AH other aspects of the birth-control issue such as divine prov­idence, natural law and papal author­ity are dwarfed by the alarming sta­tistics of an exploding population. 
In questioning the propriety of the Church's stubborn reliance on and in­terpretation of the "natural law," the author points up the shallow distinc­tion between rhythm and other forms of birth control. Having cast aside all these traditional obstacles. Father O'Brien passionately pleads with the Church to approve all phy^cally harmless methods of birth ccmtrol but excepts sterilization and abortion. 
Father O'Brien's plea came too late because the release of his book runs smack into the release of the Pope's encyclical Humanae Vitae (On Hu­man Life) imequivocally banning all forms of birth control methods with the exception of rhythm. 
The Pope made short shrift of the dangers inherent in the population ex­plosion when he said "It is not licit even for the gravest reasons to do evil so that good may follow therefrom, even when the intention is to safe­guard or promote individual family or social well-being." To the Pope, the vse of such devices is a "profanity of marriage." 
Surely the Pope was courageous, but the security of his authiHity has been terribly shaken and eroded, not so much by the contejct of the encyc­lical, as by the unexplainable and im­prudent delay in releasing it. During the five-year delay a liberal outlook on the issue took root and picked up so much momentum amongst the I:dty and clei ^ alike that even the PojJe seems powerless to stop it. If his de­cision is enforced, it will drive many from the Church and, if it is not en­forced, it will dissolve Papal authority. 
By trying to answer a complex prob­lem with clear and absolute answers, the Pope has uncovered a deeper and more complex crisis conceroing his authority. Notwitstanding the Pope's directive to all his priests to maintain and enforce his ruling, priests are read­ily telling parishioners from the altar that the Pope's ruling is doubtful and that conscience derived from study and 
pra5rer supersedes the Pope's ruling. 
What does all this mean? Are we 
free to disobey any Church teachings 
not pronounced "ex cathedra" so long 
as our conscience does not dictate 
obedience to them? Should the magis­
terium of the Church take on a more 
democratic, decentralized concept? 
Are our traditional beliefs about the 
Pope as the successor of Saint Peter, 
commissioned by God to direct and 
sanctify the Church and to guide all 
the faithful toward their salvation 

obsolete? 
If these beliefs about the Pope are correct, then we have a real hang-up. Recognizing that the Pope arrived at iiis decision after many agonizing years of prayer and study and believ­ing him to be designated by God as the teaching authority of the Church, how is it ptossible in humility to form a conscience in opposition to him? This is the dilemma. 
The puzzled minds of many Catho­lics, including mine, are now anxious to know: "Who, where and what is authority in the Church?" 
—Rkhard W. Murphy '53 

Crisis: Freedom vs Authority 
FREEDOM AND AUTHORITY IN THE WEST edited by George N. Shuster '15, AM "20, University of Notre Dome Press, 208 pp., $8.50. 
Resurrection City. The urban ghetto. The college campus. The disregard of a court directive by organized labor. Priests and religious meeting in diocesan senates. The in­dividual Christian in his interior life of worship and thought. 
In common each of these areas of contemporary society illustrates the confrontation between freedom and authority. At the center of the polit­ical, social, economic, cultural, intel­lectual and spiritual turmoil of these 1960s is the tension between freedom and authority. What are the rela­tionships between these correlative concepts in today's world? 
Freedom and Authority in the West, for the most part, does not address itself to the mediate, concrete mani­festations of the freedom-authority confrontations which appear in the duly newspapers. Rather, the book's relevance, value and interest lie in the penetrating study of the tension be­tween freedcHn and authority at the conceptual level, in political theory, contemporary theology and philosophy and in terms of concrete historical experience in Western Europe, Britain and the US. 
The volume contains 12 papers which were prepared for a conference at the University in October, 1966. It was co-sponsoied by the Catholic Academy of Bavaria and by the Uni-
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 19i8 
yersit/s Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society and its Pro­gram for West-European Studies. 

The book was edited and fore-worded by George N. Shuster '15. The essayists represent a distinguished group of creative thinkers and scholars from Western Europe and this country in the fields of theology, philosophy, history and political theory. Several different approaches are made to the central theme. 
Regarding freedom and authority in the Church, tliis question is asked: Is not the Christian life within the Christian community to be lived in freedom? John Courtney Murray's paper, "Freedom, Authority, Com­munity," rings a keynote for the entire volume. He traces the origin of the classical conception of authority in the Church (the function of the faithful simply as obedience to doctrinal and jurisdictional authority) which gave way to man's growing consciousness of his dignity as a person requiring a recognition of freedom for individual conscience, and man's growing con­sciousness of community. 
The key to a resolution of the crisis of authority and freedom, according to Father Murray, lies in a fuller understanding of the concept of com­munity—man in his horizontal rela­tions, a being with the others and for the others. The context of community is the milieu in which the dignity of the person is realized. 
Julius Cardinal Doepfner explores another aspect of the tension— freedom in the life of the Christian community for the intellect and in particular for the natural sciences. There is no conflict between the Church and the natural sciences in the horizontal dimension. Each has its area of competence. The duty of the Church is to recognize that all kinds of secular human knowledge should develop in their own right, in ac­cordance with their autonomous dy­namisms and structures and in freedom. 
Turning from the community of the Church to political or civil society, other essays in the collection describe the particular historical experience in various countries. Because the con­frontation between freedom and authority resulted in the greatest tragedy in German history (the rise of the Nazi tyranny and the Third Reich), particular attention is devoted to several essays in which distin­guished German historian^ political theorists and a constituti(xial lawyer restate the concepts in the context of the contemporary world. 
Similarly, two essays analyze the 

Anglo-Saxon historical experience: 
"The Reconciliation of Liberty and 
Authority in the American Revohi­
tion" (Marshall Smelser) and "The 
British Tradition of Authority" trac­
ing the British constitutional traditi<m 
from 1066 to 1966 (M.A. Fitzsimons). 
For its insights into the ccmceptual, 

historical and theoretical aspects ctf 
this fundamental area of contempor­
ary life, this coUecticm of essays on 
freedom and authority is recom­
mended. 
—Jostpft linbribco '54 

Some Special Essays 
THE ART OF ViaORIAN PROSE edittd by GMrg* 
Levine and William Madden '44, Oxford U. tna, 
378 pp., $8. 
Of the making of anthologies, par­ticularly those consisting of critical essays and articles by various hands, there seems to be no end. But this collection edited by George Levine and William Madden '44 is special. 
Most importandy the essays brou^t together here are not merely reprints from other sources but were especially commissioned and written for this volume. And the editors, both of whom are represented in this book by critical studies of their own, are, to use a non-Victorian expression, 'Svhere it's at" as far as Victorian studies are concerned. Professor Madden was one of the founders of Victorian Studies, the prestige journal in the Victorian field, and Professor Levine is now one of the co-editors. 
These two young scholars have invited as contributors to this volume men who have shaped the course of studies in nineteenth-century letters. The names of A. Dwight Culler, Geoffrey Tillotson, J<An Rosenberg and John HoUoway, among others, will be familiar to students. 
NOTES ON THE AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS REV. JOHN A. O'BRIEN is reseaich professor of tlicologf at ND and a widdf read aot&or. OS. DANIEL J. BRADLEY, who practices obstetrics and gynecology in Amityville, NY, has had apeneace running a clinic for Mayans, integrating a schooI_ sj-stem and working for an open hausng onHnance. Now he's trying to get personal medical service into the ghetto. He says he ym religiouslT or^^nQK until he started investigating and then when he read Noonan "that blew it." RICHARD W. MURrHY graduated from Boston V. Law School and was an assistant attorney general to Senator Edward Bnckc, He gained recognition for his work Jn the court-martial ca5e_ of Hubert Ashe and is now_a parta^ U 
Murphy. Lamerc and Murphy in Braintree and assistant district attorney in Norfolk County. 
DR. GEORGE SHUSTER '15. '20 is special assstant to the president of ND. JOSEPH E. mBRIAOO itceived his law degree from Harvard and has practiced in NY and NJ spedalinng Jn estate pbnninp, %vills and trust law. He also lectures and writes in those areas and is active in fair bouung work n MadUon, NJ where he lives. WILLIAM A. MADDEN has graduate degrees from Xavier U. and U. <( Michigan and is a professor^of English and dean of the junior division_at Indiana U. He has Karoed attention as a writer and editor and also as a city councilman in Bloomington. EUGENE ^J. BR2XNK earned his degree at Milwaukee State Teachers Col. and the State U. of Iowa nd is an associate 1 of English at ND. 
ALUMNUS SEiTEMBER 1968 
All 15.authors coopentiiigr in this 

undertakii^ are cancemed to' go 
beyond mere *%ackgroim(r studies 
<rf the great literary hoitage duit 
Victorian prose represents. Thdr 
central concotn in TA« Art of Victo­
rian Prose is to demonstrate that non­
fictional prose needs to be recognized 
and can be studied as a Ultimate art 
fmm^cjust as poetry and fiction are. 
The ccHitributms are aware that there 
exists at present "no satisfactory over­
all rationale, no adequate method or 
combinaticai of methods, by wliicli 
non-ficticm mi^ t be studii^ and 
evaluated as imaginative visioo—as 
art"* Hence the great vahie of farn^-V 
mg together the viewpcnnts: a ^ 
ccRnbined approaches of 15 leadii^ 
specialists all woildng toward devdop­
ing what amounts to a poetics of prose. 
Such varied prose genres as art criticism, philosc^hical prase, sdentific writing and political raatcHry are studied. And, while classical rheti»ic is not left out (Martin Sva^ic is particularly illuminating here), also included are the newer tools <A the literary schcdar, the linguistic, psyr choanalytic ant^ ye^ even the com­puter approaches to die study of style. Very exciting, this latter section. 
Several prose writers are treated in separate essays, notably - Matthew Arnold, Danrin, Walter Pater, Thomas Carlyle and Thomas Babing­ton Macaulay. The last named writer and his prose works are examined by Professcnr Madden from the p^cho­logical and biographical standpoints, a rather daring approach, given die still influential fcMtce oi New Critical strictures against these methods in literary criticisni. 
But it works for Professor Madden because he relates the OMifficts and cmnplexities of Macaula/s political and private life to the writer's lin­guistic world so that the antitheses and other recognizable hallmarks d Macaulayese are given new meaning. 
Readers and students of {Hose, no matter whether they are VictcNrian specialists, will find numerous reasons to be grateful for this collection and teachers will quickly put it to wmrk in their courses. 
—f Hgaw J. kzMk 

MAODm '44 SHUS1ER '15 Victoridn and Wtstarn oirthoririts. 
EMILIO SALAZAR '16 Back on Campus, a flood of memories. 
One Refugee's Stoiy 
Living in Castro's Cuba means living by a notebook. Every morning you go to the store—^you can go to only one grocery store—and they look through the notebook. "Let's see, this month did you get your eighth of a pound of butter?" the vendor asks. "Oh, you got it already. There are three people in the house—did you get your three pounds of rice? Did you get your six pounds of potatoes this month? You say you didn't get any condensed milk this month? You are three; you are entitled to 18 cans . . ." 
But Emilio Salazar '16 says after a while there wasn't much milk and the only people v/ho got it were chil­dren under 13 and adults over 65. In perfect English he describes his life until he came to the US in March: 
"Sept. 28, 1965 Fidel Castro said anyone who wants to can leave the country so right away I sent a cable and they assigned me a number. I came out with number 98,444 and then I waited. They took me out of work. I was vice-president of Sinclair Oil and they threw me out. 
"I had to live two years, three months without being able to take any money out of my bank account and when I left the country I left my bank account. I was an engineer and an architect so I sold what I could of my transits and levers and I waited until my number came out." 
With the help of Father Hesburgh and others connected with Notre Dame, Salazar, his wife and daughter obtained papers for immigi-ation to Canada. But then the airlift from Havana to Miami was started so they finally made their way to Florida. 
Salazar, who had worked for Sin­clair 30 years and had been vice-president 10 years, didn't get any "retirement" pay though he had paid to the engineers' organization 50 years, to the architects 31 years and the petroleum fund 28 years. Castro also got the family's automobiles, house and furnishings. Salazar left Cuba with 28 pounds of clothes, in­cluding the weight of his suitcase. 
"They took my money away and put me on the plane," he says. "When I graduated in 1916, they gave me the Martin J. McCue medal for civil 
engineering and I had to leave that 
over there. Castro got it, too. They 
collected all the money over there— 
all the money is aluminum, no gold 
or silver. I was lucky to get out with 
this," he said, pointing to a gold-
plated belt buckle. 
Salazar first heard predictions about the life he would be leading back in 1926. A "white Russian" engineer \vho was doing pick-and-shovel work at a stone quarry told him that in 40 years there would be a revolution in Cuba just like the one that was going on in Russia. Salazar didn't know what kind of revolution he meant and he was told "It's political, it's eco­nomical, it's a social revolution, it's a religious revolution, it's an intellec­tual revolution, it's a human revolu­tion." And in 40 years it did reach Cuba, 
In spite of the hardships (he dropped from 185 to 139 pounds), Emilio Salazar looks at life in his homeland philosophically. "I think they are a 'chosen people,'" he says. "There were 600,000 Israelites and they needed 40 years. In Cuba there must be two or three million and they'll be coming out in 20 years if , things hold up—but I don't think they will hold up." 
Salazar says what is "holding up" Cuba is flour, transportation and fuel oil. He laments that wheat is shipped from Winnepeg, that England sent over 600 buses and that Russia sends over fuel oil (not enough, though, because gasoline is $3 per gallon and you're allowed only 20 gallons a month). 
But in the next breath he asks, "If you had it in your power to cut these things off, would you do it?" and he answers for himself: "Don't you pray for Castro? Shouldn't you pray for your enemies? I wouldn't touch him. Leave him alone. He's an instrument of God." 
And Emilio Salazar believes God will take care of the people—"You can live on very little food, you know" —until they are freed as he was. Be­fore he left Cuba he saw his married sons and daughters and grandchildren go before him. (One son, Alberto '52, was aided by ND classmates and the ND Club of Dearborn, Mich.) "I would have gotten out with the first of my family, but you know the cap­tain has to be the last one to get off a boat," he explains. 
The Salazars now make their home with a son in Lafayette, Ind. and they have a "small hotel" filled up with other family members who have escaped Cuba. 
So at 74 Emilio Salazar, Notre Dame graduate, engineer, former executive, is starting life anew and 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER \96S 
he has but one complaint: he wants 
a job. "I don't do anything and they 
won't let me do anything. I'm pro­
hibited from working; nobody my 
age can work. I need to have a job. 
An idle mind is die devil's workshop." 
It is an ironic postscript that he 

adds: "In Cuba the sidewalks are 
broken, the houses have no paint, the 
buses are falling apart. Nobody has 
any interest in working." 
The ND Delegation Seconded 
Politics makes strange bedfellows 
— even football coaches. Dave Condon '45 wrote about such a case involving Frank Leahy '31 in his column, "In the Wake of the News," Aug. 9. It is reprinted here with the permission of the Chicago Tribune.—^ALUMNUS Editor. 

Sometime around midnight, during that long lull while the Virgin Islands' delegation was being polled, a fellow turned from the Huntley-Brinkley lan­tern and asked Frank Leahy: 
"Haven't you been down that con­vention road? I thought of it today, when I read about Ike's heart attack." 
"Yes," said Frank Leahy, former Notre Dame football coach. "I had some memories when I read that he'd had another heart attack. It was . .. " 
Well, recalled Leahy, it had been in 1956, and he was out playing golf on Denver's Cherry Hills course. There still were a few holes to go, and the dime bets -were all even, when Leahy got a message that there was a long­distance call for him. He strode to a nearby telephone, got the country club operator, and told her he'd take the call after the round \vas finished. 
"I think you'll take this call now, Coach Leahy," the operator said. "It's the White House calling." 
Sure enough, the President of the United States wanted to talk to the coach immediately. 
As Leahy recalled. President Dwight D. Eisenhower exchanged pleasantries and then said: "What'ie you going to be doing in a couple of weeks?" 
"Anything Mr. President \vishes that I should do," said Leahy. 
Ike then said he'd appreciate Leahy making one of the seconding speeches at the San Francisco convention, when Ike was to be put up for a sec­ond term. Leahy said he'd be happy to do so. 
To the few of us listening to the tale early Thursday morning, while the nomination of Richard Nixon -was being certified in Miami Beach, Leahy said: "Now you might wonder why the President would need any second­ing speeches for another term in 1956. 
"I wondered, too. Then it dawned on me. During the late part of Ike's first term he'd had that first heart at­tack, and there was some static about his ability to serve through a second term. So his advisors wanted to pull out all the stops to help Ike emerge triumphant. 
"I was told to be in San Francisco, and that my speech would already be written. I flew there and saw the press agent who had prepared my speech. He started to read it." 
The press agent stopped halfivay through and said to Leahy: "This doesn't register with you, does it?" Leahy shook his head, and said he'd prefer to deliver a talk scribbled out while on the plane. 
Leahy's notes compared a President serving a second term to a quarter­back who is starting the second half of a football game. He noted that during the first half of a football game, the quarterback frequently learns lessons and gains experiences that bring ultimate success in the sec­ond half. A coach could not afford to forfeit what the quarterback learned in the first half, Leahy said. So should it be with the Presidency, he added. America could not afford to forfeit Mr. Eisenhower's first-half experience. 
"And that was the theme of the seconding speech I finally made for Mr. Eisaahower," Coach Leahy told 
EISENHOWERS and LEAHY ChaHing at ND in 1952. 

us. Then Leahy thought back to 1956 again: 
"A day or so later I played golf with one of California's leading ama­teurs. That night we were ^valldng through San Francisco and I said we were passing the hotel where Presi­dent Eisenhower was staying. I sug­gested we go to see him. 
"His floor was jammed with secret service men. One reported back that the President was napping, but that Mamie would see us. I took in my amateur golfer and Mamie had a drink poured for us. 
"Ike overheard us talking. He came out in a robe. When he met my companion, they began a long session about golf. Golf and football—those were Ike's two favorite subjects when­ever I was close to him. 
"You know that Ike was a member of the West Point varsity when Notre Dame played its first game against Army. He was out with a fractured leg, but did see the game. And one time he detailed for me how Army copied the Notre Dame pass fonna­tion—Dorais, Rockne, etc.—to beat Navy later in the season. 
"What a heart-warming gentleman. What a gentleman, Ike. The day I could second his nomination for the Presidency was a proud moment, and a memorable one." 
News from South-West 
Bro. Romard Barthel CSC '47 of Aus­tin, Tex. has been appointed provin­cial superior of the South-West Prov­ince of the Brothers of Holy Cross in the US, making him the top admin­istrator for the proxdnce which covers about two-thirds of the nation. 
The aimouncement was made in Rome by Rev. Germain La Lande CSC, superior general of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross. Brother Romard succeeds Bro. John Baptist Titzer CSC who was the first provincial of the South-West Province. 
The new provincial was chairman 
BROTHER ROAAARD New Superior. 

of the board of trustees imtil June 1 at St. Edward's U. in Austin, where he also is professor of physics. He was succeeded as chairman of the board of trustees by Bro. Cornelius Corcoran CSC. 
Brother Romard received a PhD in physics from the U. of Texas in 1951. He is a native of Evansville, Ind. 
His duties as provincial superior wll include making broad jjolicy de­cisions as well as the assignment of manpower for St. Edward's U. and a number of high schools and boys' homes administered by the Brothers of Holy Cross in the South-West Prov­ince. 
JOHN AND AAARY SLAFKOSKY At pageant. 

ND Wife Mrs. Indiana 
Mrs. Mary Slafkosky, wife of former ND football and boxing headliner John P. '63, has made some headlines of her own. The pretty young mother of two was recently selected as Mrs. Indiana of 1968 and competed in the 26th Annual Mrs. America Pageant in Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minn. 
When asked what would make a young mother interrupt her already­bnusy schedule to tackle an even more challenging schedule, the attractive homemaker answered, "I'm tired of hearing the career woman's role built up and the housewife's deflated. I'm for promoting the homemaker, who is generally underplayed, and I feel I owe it to my children to expand my thinking and become involvai." 
John and Mary traveled to Min­neapolis-St. Paul for the 10-day pageant in the latter part of August In addition to the normal interviews with judges, the contestants were judged on interior design, flower ar­ranging, child communication, money management, physical fitness, grocery shopping, creative expression, adult entertainment and fashion. 
A native of Grand Rapids, the former Mary Ewng Frost now resides in South Bend mth her husband and two children, Mary Veronica, 2J/2j and John, 14 months. She considers the hi^light of her trip to have been "meeting so many wonderful people." llie ND wife and mother will find the coming months busy living the lole of Mrs. Indiana 1968. 
From the Fickle Finger of Fate 
Fame caught up with Pvt Gerald 
F. Folhnar '67 in F t Knox, Ky. Aug. 2 he unwittingly became the one mil­lionth trainee to be graduated from the US Army Training Center, Armor (USATCA) — amidst color­ful military pageantry. 
For his capture of this tmusual honor Follmar was personally cited by the Fort Knox post commander, Maj. Gen. James W. Sutherland Jr, during the graduation ceremonies which in­cluded a dress uniform parade and review involving more than 1000 men. 
Later in the day the millionth graduate appeared for an interview on a Louisville television station. The interview was followed by a luncheon given in his honor by the Training Center's commanding general. 
Follmar completed basic combat training at Fort Dix, NJ before he was assigned to Company E, 4th Bat­talion, 1st Brigade at Fort Kn*x for advanced individual trainiag in the operation of armored vehicles. 
In Honor of Charles Jones '32 
A $1.8 million technical training fa­cility at Keesler AFB, Miss, has been dedicated in memory of Brig. Gen. Charles D. Jones '32. Jones Hall will house the communications systems de­partment staff along with the depart­ment's radio relay and ground radio branch. 
General Jones, a native of Jackson, Miss., was killed in an aircraft acci­dent Jan. 25, 1958 shortly before he was to assume the rank of major gen­eral. He had enlisted in the aviation cadet program in 1934 and in 1942 L t Col. Jones went ashore with the ground elements during the invasion of North Africa to serve as air liaison oflScer for Gen. George Patton's task force. 
Wounded during a B-17 rd d over Tunis in 1943, he later assumed com­mand of the 340th Medium Bom­bardment group. While flying a B-25 in 1944, he was shot down during a raid of Rome and taken prisoner. He was liberated by the Allies in May, 1945. 
His postwar assignments included bdng deputy chief of staff for the Ninth Air Force, commander of Sheppard AFB, commanding general at Langley AFB and chief of staff of the Allied Air Forces in Northern Europe. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1968 
ALBERT A. KUHLE '15 
117 SUNSET AVE. LAGRANGE, ILL. 60525 
GROVER F. MILLER '16 

mm 
1208 SOUTH MAIN ST. 
RACINE, WIS. 53403 
EDWARD McOSKER 17 
525 MELROSE AVE. 
ELGIN, ILLINOIS 60120 
DAN E. HILGARTNER '17 
Clib 
P.O. BOX 75 
HARBERT. MICH. 49115 
GEORGE WAAGE 3305 WRIGHTWOOD AVE. CHICAGO, ILL. 60G47 

In a letter in cariy June ARTHUR R. CAR­
MODY expressed regret that he would be unable 
to attend the Glass Reunion this year even though 
he had planned to do so. He said *'my youngest 
boy Barry who had scr\*ed with the Marines as 
captain, and now with the FBI was given leave 
to be with us at Easter but due to the difficulty 
at Memphis, his leave was denied. Last night he 
called to say that he will be home June 7. We 
had not seen him since last Thanksgiving so that 
is the reason for my absence.** It was good to 
hear from you. Art — you may be sure you were 
missed. 
The following item reached my desk — 
"THO^lAS A. E. LALLY PhB '06, Spokane, 
Wash., is the owner of a horse saddle made for 
Marshall Field, the millionaire merchant by 
W. T. Wroe & Sons, Austin, Texas, in 1913. He bought the saddle more than 20 years following Mr. Field's death.'* Tliere was no indication that this antique is for sale. Any one interested could address an inquiry to him c / o Paulsen Bldg., Spokane, Wash 99208. 
Word has just been received that BERNARD 
J. DURCH '13 209 W. Columbia St., Chippewa Falls, Vfis.j has suffered a stroke which has par­tially disabled him. I am sure that all members of the 50 Year Club will join me in sending him and all XD men who are ill and similarly af­flicted a very cheery thought together with a prayer that God will bless them now and keep them in His care. 
Many thanks to J. F. O'BRIEN '13 Tucson, for news clippings announcing the death of ELMO A. FUNK *11. Following are excerpts from the news items— "Mr. Funk, 78, 920 W. 8tlt St., well-known civic and business leader, died shortly after 10 p.m., June 12 after several weeks* illness. The funeral Mass was said at St. Mar>*'s Catholic Chiurch with the Rt. Rev. Msgr. Francis Kicnly officiating. 
"The founder of the Coca-Cola Bottling Co. here (Anderson, Ind.) was bom in Beatrice, Neb., was reared in Anderson; was graduated from St. Hilary's parochial schfxil and Anderson HS. He received a degree in civil engineering at the University of Notre Dame in 1911. 
"Mr. Funk's vigorous and successful business career nc\'cr hampered his desires to meet every opportunity and obligation as a good citizen. Mr. Funk's extensive contributions to the growth and development of Anderson were made through many cliannels. Among them were the Chamber of Commerce, which he had ser\'ed as president, and the Madison County Hospital Development Corp., an agency that made possible the new Community Hospital and the enlargement of St. John's. 
"President of the Anderson Community Chest 
THEODORE C. RADEMAKER PERU FOUNDRY CO. 
PERU, IND. 46900 

1919 
JAMES H. RYAN 
2470 EAST AVE.. APT. 314 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. 14610 

1920 
DAN W. DUFFY 1030 NATL. CITY E. 6lh BLDG. 
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114 

1921 
G. A. "KID" ASHE 175 LANDING RD. N. 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. 14625 

1922 
Another dassmate has been summoned to his reward — CHARLES M. DUNN, 13440 Reming­for three consecutive years, chairman of the Kfadison Co. Salvage Committee during Wcvld War II, chairman of a campaign which nuscd $225,000 for St. Msay^i Church; past exalted ruler of the local Elks Lodge, past prt^dent of the Rotary Club, a leader in moves to advance Anderson College, chairman in this arem for the Notre Dame Endowment Ftmd Committee, direc­tor and chairman of the board of the Citizens Banking Company — those are a few of the BU­merotu offices and posts which Mr. Funk hdd. 
"As a devoted family man, husband and father, he set an example to move the entire commimity. There were occasions when Mr. Funk was made aware that his untiring labors in behalf of lus fellow citizens were apprcdated. One of those times occurred about 10 years ago when he was chosen as redpient of the Exchange CIid> Golden Deeds Aivard. That presentation brought into sharp focus the impressive manner in which Bfr. Funk discharged his duties to his family, to his community, to his business and to his church. 
"Dutiful and consdcntious, he fashioned a full and balanced life, based on a wholesome set tA values. Few have given of their time, talents and support in making Anderson a better community. 
"Sui^vors indudc the widow, the former Mildred Kdley, to whom he was married in 1915; a daughter, Mrs. Robert (Jane) Corddl, Munde; a son, Thomas C. Funk, Anderson and two grandsons, Tom and Bobbie Cordell." May his soul and the souls of all the faithful departed through the mercy of God rest in peace. 
The Rev. SALVATORE FANELU CSC *14 will be celebrating his Golden Jubilee of Ordina­tion. He resides at St. Joseph*s Novitiate, Rolling Prairie, Ind. 
In his response to the 1968 Reunion Committee, the Hon. MARCELLUS M. OSHE *12 Palm Beach, Fla., stated "Plans are not definite: I am limbering up — I had a hole-in-one recently." "Congratulation." 
I appreciated receiving greetings from HAROLD 
D. MADDEN *15 Cindnnati, Ohio. Am sorry he didn't add some personal news about himself and his family. 
Being unable to attend the Class Reimlons in June REV. IVO (HENRY) McELROY OEM, St. Anthony's Shrine, 100 Arch St., Boston 02110, sent this message "I will remember at Holy Mass those attending — especially the living and de­ceased members of the Class of 1917.** 
Msgr. W. A. SOBOLEWSKI '11 wrote "I am to far away, too old (80) and too busy with my parish. I am alone in this wild west." Then he asks "Is there any one left of 1911 but myself and HENRY FRAWLEY who lives near me?" Here is a good chance for the other 35 living members of the 1911 class to do a **Boy Scoot Deed" — to send him greetings and a note of cheer. Address him c /o St. Joseph Church, Spearfish, So. Dak. 57783. 
BRAULIO A. MUNECAS '16 Huntington Woods, Mich, writes "I'd like to exchange reci­pes with my dassmates as to how best keep our­selves kicking around in this troublesome world!" The best way to avoid boredom and to enjoy your retirement is to keep active, both mentally and physically. 
I have the feeling that there %vould be more correspondence among members of the various classes comprising the 50 year dub if current addresses %vere available. If that is true I will be glad to supply addresses when requested. I should mention also that the Scpt.-Oct. issue will have included in it the yellow information card 
ton, Pacoima, Calif., on October 7 last, as per information received from Klrs. Grace Dunn to whom we send our sympathy and solace. Please remember in your prayers all of our deceased dassmates and members of their families both deceased and living. Also, we must never forget Dr. MATT WEIS, who as ilircctor of our Qass Mass fund for many years probably does not like to see it drop below a healthy level 
Word just recently reached us of the death of Mrs. JOHN P. HART, widow of our beloved dassmate of happy memory. Kathryn died <m March 1, 1965, according to information fur­nished by a daughter Mrs. A. Gaydos. We extend our sincere sympathy to Mrs. Gaydos, also, to her brothers: John Jr. and Edward on the death of their mother. 
ROBERT SHEA'S current address is 3000 39th St., Washington, DC 20016. 
for the amvoiieace of all almnai. Yrar.secrataiy win i^predate receiving them carrying news Jtcaaa cooccining almmu and their fomilies. 
—MBEtr A. KUHl£ 

ART CARMODY '15 ofl man and boa nvant of 
Shrcveport, La., noted for hb dry mad wry wit 
and hmnor, was making an infection toor many 
long years ago on Easter Sunday of the New 
York Athletic Qnb, bec»ise he was cliainaaa 
of the Building Committee for the Shrcveport 
AC. Onr bent finally shovred ns the ntagniSccnt 
main loonge, about 200 or 30O feet long and 
beautifully furnished. Art looked it over, took n 
deep brouh and cxclainMd, '*Wbf, Danny, it 
looks just like the Corby Rec Room." 
BERNARD J. VOLL has become n nento M 
the Union League Qnb of Chicago, of which 
CARLETON BEH is also a nonresident mem­
ber. PAUL FOGARTY belongs to the E^prwater 
Golf Qnb and . your correspondent is a lifetime 
member of the South Shore Coontry Qnb. So, 
what other Scventeeners are Chicago tivbrnem or 
would you rather have a great grandchildren con­
test? No pctnres please; keep them in your wallet. 
— DAN £. HflGAffTNER 

Htmestly — sorry, if yon were unable for what­
ever reason — to attend your G<4den Jubilee 
Retmion. From all reports everyone;, even the 
ladies, had a good time. 
However now that you are a member of the 
50 Year Qnb yon are welcome back every June. 
Sincerely trust that you will enjoy the best of 
health and return next June to welcmne the 1969 
GoUen Jubilee Qass to the 50 Year Qdb. Flan 
to return every June until you are 100 and be 
sure and bring the lady with yon. Wdl let's all 
return next June, "The Good Lord willing." 
Let's start something. **Drop your secretary n card." Should yon know of a classmate nnfortn­natc to be on sick call, we will *shoo^ out the news and see if we can't cheer him iq^ with some get-weU cards. 
Heard from MAX G. KAZUS, "June 27 our daughter Florence Kazus Love RN, passed away." Max has hb chin up and is working on getting grandson in ND engineering school 1973. 
NEIL J. "WHTTEY" WHALEN MD writes — "H ^ a UtUe note from CHARLEY CALL also JOHN I.EMMER. Everybody's h^ipy — please remember me to Fr. WILLIAMS. Sure Rosemary Whalen — Whitey's wife was at the Reunion. Sure wish the ladies attending Reunion would use Srellow card* and let us know what they enjoyed most about their trip to ND." 
LAMBERT SENG is most prond about the fact that he has 16 grandchildren. I wcmder if any­one can top Bert? SHERWOOD DIXON, lets have your latest count. All American Water Boy missed Reunion but reports he is feeling much better and hopes to "make r^' next June. Re­unions are over. Conventions are over, only 10 wins for an undefeated Football seascm! GOOD LUCK, Coach. 
The Robmson (HI.) Argus honors WILLIAM 
E. BRADBURY LLB '16 with a front-page write-up.' Quote "This is to certify that William £ . Bradbury has been made a prinleged mem­ber of the Illinois State Bar Assodation in rec­ognition and ^ipredation of hu continued sufH port of its objectives for many years." Bill got n thank-you card from Ihvight D . Eisenhower, Walter Reed General Hosp., Washington DC for the get-weU message sent. 
— GEORGE WAAG£ 

For the present, at least, if yon are addresnng FRANK B. BLOEMER JR please use his Ken­tucky address: 917 S. 7th St., Louisville, Ky. 40203. 
Next year, the ALUMNUS will be mned more frequently than in the recent past. Each issue will be somewhat smaller in size than we have at present, and consequently our maximum number of allowable words will be considerably decreased. We will have to condense our news items, so please do pardon our brevity on some of your fine contributions. We exhort all to use the yellow information cards that are inserted in the binding of ALUMNUS issues. Yes, do scrib­ble a few words on that yellow card and mail same to us prcmiptly. That is a much better deal than waiting for time to write ns that long letter, vdiich never gets beyond the mental blueprint stage. 
 BRUGGNER 
1667 Rn^RSIDE DR.. APT. A 
SOUTH BEND. IND. 46616 

1923 
LOUIS V. 
The aura of our 45th Reunion \vas still ^vith me. when news reached me of the sudden death o£ Mrs. Gcraldine R. Brcnnan, wife of MARTIN H. BRENNAN and mother of PETER M. BREN­NAN '58, LAWRENCE A. BRENNAN '54 and THOXL\S R. BRENNAN '63. First Information reaching mc gave no details, but a letter from ED RAUB indicated that Mrs. B. retired Friday c\*ening. June 28, apparently in the best of health, but when she failed to get up in the morning, her husband went to her room, only to find she had died in her sleep. Her health his­tory, I'm told, was excellent all her life. Friends of the family may write to the family home. 27 Fairlawn Drive, Eggcrts\ille, NY 14226. I join all her sur\ivors in remembering her in, my prayers. 
Now it's Col. FR.\NTC S. DORIOT. A fac­simile certificate received from Frank indicates that July 11, "Honorable" Frank S. Doriot, Huntington, W. Va., was commissioned a Ken­tucky Colonel by Governor Louie (sic) B. Nunn of the Commonwealth of Kentucky. Frank wrote that "this special honor was delivered by spe­cial messenger in Huntington." True to his an­nounced plans, Frank informed mc that he was then all packed, ready to move to 1045 Beacon street, Brooklinc. Mass. 02146, his neu* home, where he will receive all mail and visitors, 'ten ­shun—! 
Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH CSC, former N D president, has been appointed a chaplain for St. Mary's College, as announced late in June by Monsignor John J. McGrath, president of St. Mary's. Father headed the University administra­tion from 1946 to 1952, directing the start of the large post-war expansion programs. Later he scn.-ed for several years as director of the N D Foundation. 
 MEEHAN 
301 S. LAFAYETTE BL\T>. 
SOUTH BEND. IND. 46601 

1924 
JAMES R. 
EDITGR'S XOTE: Sadly, zee report the death of Jim Meckan. He passed azcay unexpectedly August 15 apparently of a heart attack. His zcife, havemaf and a sister from Nezv York City survive. A loyal Alumnus, devoted husband, good friend and fellow classmate, Jim icill long be remembered in the prayers of all Notre Dame men. 
 P. HURLEY 2083 BROOKDALE RD. 
TOLEDO. OHIO 43606 

1925 JOHN 
"TON'Y" A. F. GONZALEZ writes that he is retiring at the end of this year after nearly forty years with the Insular Life F.G.U. —Insurance Group. His stationcr>' indicates he is chairman of the board. Tony says, "My good friend and teammate on the tennis team HERMAN CENT­LIVRE mentioned in a letter he has 15 grand­children and is expecting to hear about one more. I am^ about to become a grandparent for the first time this month, as my son and only child JOSE ANTONIO '58 and wife arc expecting in July. You also added in your column that FRANK HOWLAND was going to come out to the East. I hope he calls me if he is in Manila. The same goes for any one from the Class." 
LEO POWERS wrote tliat some tlirec years ago. they moved from Cliicago to Cr>'stal Lake, 111., and that he is now associated with the firm Covey. McKinney and Powers there. Also tells us that the ND Club of McHcnry County has put him to work as its president. Recently his at­tention was called to the obituary of Dr. JOSEPH FOLEY of Waukegan. a practicing physician. BILL VOSS '23 is now li\ing in McHcnry also, JOHN P. MAHON retired from the B&O R.R.-Clcvcland after better than 20 years. 
FRANK HOWLANT) and his wife Margaret took a world cruise the first of the year taking in 24 ports. **Our stop in Penang and a wonder­ful visit with GEORGE CHAO and his lovely wife Joau was indeed a highlight of our trip. GEORGE would like a '25 DOME. (Maybe someone doesn't have room for theirs anymore in their apartment.) Now that I am retired from management responsibilities I hope to do more traveling and see more '25ers. Called JOHN MORAN in Denver and he is in fine health." 
MORT STETTAUER, South Bend, writes he is still alive and kicking—recuperating from a gall bladder and appendix operation. Mort is retiring from the Chicago Tribune after 42 years. 
Federal Judge JOHN F. KILKENNY 61 Port­

land, Ore., gave the graduation address at the 
Blue Mountain Community College. The Oregon 
Journal is plugging for John for the Fcdexal 
Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit. 
The Alumni office informed me that H. 

GERARD SUTTER '25 died "some months ago" 
according to a letter from his son JAMES F. '59. 
The Class sends its sympathy to his family and a 
Class Mass is being said for him. 
Note your letters had to be cut because the 

ALUMN'US will have more Issues and will be ioine­
what smaller. 
J. N. GELSOV GELSON & LOYVELL, IN C 
200 E. 42nd ST. 
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017 

1926 
CLARENCE J. RUDDY 
III W. DOWNER PL. 
AURORA, ILL. 60SO4 

1927 
A Chicago Daily Ne:vs columnist recently nieit­
tioned that the ancient &farriagc Court in the 
County Building is being remodeled and pointed 
out that the marriage judge there, FRANCIS T. 
McCURRIE, was once a public defender who lost 
only 4 of 450 accused murderers to the electric 
chair. Francis is another classmate of whom wc 
can all be proud. 
Those of us who attended the Reunion a year 

ago will recall that GEORGE GORDON was 
confined to St. Joseph's Hosp. in South Bend at 
that time. Several classmates visited him. I was 
glad to receive a letter from George a few weeks 
ago in whicli he expressed his appreciation of the 
Wsitations and the many wislics for his recovery. 
George's son BILL received a degree in chemical 
engineering in 1950 and has been with General 
Electric Company since that time, except for a 
period served in the Na\-y. George himself is now 
getting along in good shape. 
JACK REIDY of Cleveland reports that he had 

a meeting with JOE MURRAY in June. This is 
the first time Jack had seen Joe since the 
latter withdrew from ND at the end of his fresh­
man year. You will recall that Joe made quite a 
record during his brief sojourn at school. He was 
secretary of the freshman class, played foodiall 
with the Brownson-Hall Football Team and 
worked with BILL D.ALEY to make the Freshman 
Frolic a success. Joe has been in the real estate 
business in Chicago but is now moving out to 
California to be near his daughter who lives in 
Van Nuys. He is tremendously interested in his 
old ND classmates. 
Speaking of retirement, DICK HALPIN called 

to say that he is retiring from Commonwealth 
Edison Company July 31. He is not exactly going 
to take it easy however, because he immediately 
becomes director of purchasing at Guardian Angel 
Orphanage in Chicago. Dick is not simply going to 
fade away but \vM\ help the Orphanage in a sub­
stantial, important way. 
Dick also reports that Iiis brother JOHN )nll retire from International Har^'ester Co. in another year. The list of retiring classmates is growing, but that, I suppose, Js to be expected. 
In a few days I will order monthly Masses to be said at ND for another year. Let me remind everybody that, in addition to these Masses which are said for all members ol the Class, we have a special Mass said upon the death of each class­mate. The sum on hand is gradually becoming less. Contributions to the fund are still welcome. 
 F. BUCKLEY 
6415 N. SHERIDAN RD» APT. 1007 CHICAGO, ILL. 60626 

1928 
LOUIS 
RICHARD ELPERS died April 30 m Los An­geles where he had retired from a sales executive position with Columbia Broadcasting Co. He is survived by a sister. DONOVAN RAU died re­cently also. 
LEO McINTYRE reported that his son and the son of JOSEPH PUIG were graduated this year at Notre Dame when HOWARD PHALIN re­ceived the Degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa. Congratulations. Howie. Were there other sons of '28 men who were graduated this year? 
ED McCLARNON has retired from the Trav­elers Ins. Co. after nearly 40 years of service and has become counsel to the firm of Joseph A. Tracy. 70 Pine St., N^C. 
LEO WALSH, a member of the Michigan Labor Afediation Board for 12 years, gave an excellent talk at Loyola U., Chicago, at a conference for school administrators. Your secretary attended another very fine union-management conference in 
April arranged by Rev. AfARK FITZGERALD at 
St. Mary's Col. I have served on the advisory 
board for these conferences for sixteen years. 
I had lunch in Columbus where I attended a 

conference with JOHN FONTANA, Judge JOE 
KINNEARY. JOHN IGOE and JOHN MURPHY. 
John Fontana had been selected as a delegate to 
the Democratic National Conventicm this year. 
Congratulations to John Fontana upon his hon­
orary degree. Doctor of Business Administiration, 
from Rio Grande Col. which he received in May. 
Judge BOB GRANT served as a visiting judge 

in Washington in April and shared the chambers 
of Judge BILL JONES. Bill reports that Bob did 
an outstanding job there. Bill and Bob had lunch 
with JOHN FREDERICK and Len Walsh, the 
Minnesota end who caught the pass in 1927 that 
resulted in a tie game bet^vecn Notre Dame and 
Minnesota. Bill reports that John and Len did 
everything but scrimmage in the dining room. 
ART SCHEBERLE and DUTCH REIDER re­

cently retired from Detroit Edison Co. and joined 
the other classmate who is a retiree from there, 
JOE SIMONI. Art has been director of the 
Catholic Information Apostolate. 
FRANCIS DAVID'S only child, is a Brother of 

the Sacred Heart at Spring Hill Col., Mobile, 
Ala. 
H.\YES MURPHY has our sympathy upon the 

death of his brother. MYRON '31. Hayes had a 
stroke last fall. I also want to extend our sym­
pathy to WALTER GOFF whose wife died re­
cently. 
JOE GRIFFIN has two boys in Vietnam. BILL 

KEARNEY has a daughter who is a nun in the 
religious order of Sacred Heart at Barat College 
and a son who teaches at the U. of Hawaii. 
GERALD McGILL is the community scrxiccs 

dirfxtor for the Diocese of Superior, Wis., Cath­
olic Charities Bureau. He previously ser\'cd as 
director of the State Bureau of .Alcohol Studies. 
He has ser\'ed as vice chairman of the county 
Democratic party and is now an alderman and 
district supcr\-isor in Superior. 
Hou'ard Phalin, Chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Field Enterprises Educa­tional Corp., has been elected secretary of the American Educational Publishers Institute. 
Wc are looking forward to secinv you and your wife at the 13th annual '28 Class cocktail party in O'Shaughncssy Hall on the Campus following the Illinois game Oct. 19. If you haven't let our Class president, ED QUINN, know you will he present, write to hira at 426 No. Sunnysidc, South Bend 46617. 
For other home games, you arc urged to stop across from gate number 1 entrance to the sta­dium before and after the game as a meeting place for '28 men. 
Wc attended the wedding of Kathleen Mar>-Creadon. Frank was kept busy as father of the bride as well as favoring us with songs during the Mass. JOHN BUSCHE.MEYER, ivlio had to leave our 40th Reunion early, reports that he is feeling fine again. Father JIM McSH.ANE SJ has invited the Class to hold a get-together on Feb, 18 and 19 at his mission in El Progreso, Yoro. Honduras, Central America. Please write Jim if you can accept his invitation. P.AT CANNY wrote from Ireland expressing his appreciation for a "wonderful Reunion." 
May I ask a favor? Please send mc some news on the yellow card enclosed in this issue and mail it promptly to mc at the address at the begin­ning of this column. Thanks in advance for your help. 
 STAUDER 
ENGINEERING BLDG. 
NOTRE DAME. IND. 46556 

1929 
LARRY 
JIM CURRY, FRANCIS FLYXN. FRANCIS MEYER, BILL NEFF, CLETE SCHNEIDER, LARRY STAUDER, Rev. LOU THORNTON and GEORGE BEAMER were among the '29ers who couldn't wait another year to reunite. Those who weren't so fortunate have over nine months to PLAN AHEAD. 
In the meantime treat yourself to a preview of Jane '69 by joining the 'SSers immediately after the Sept. 28 Purdue game. Room 221 in the engineering building was repainted this sum­mer in anticipation of your attendance. Your guests are equally welcome, and have always enjoyed the get-together as much as those who belong to the true church of '29. 
By the time this page is printed and mailed you will have received the up-to-date (for a week) 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1968 
Class roster. In this day of mobility the address changes come in almost daily. If you happen to be one who has a change of address during the next nine months, please notify yotir Class sec­retary as well as the Alumni Office. We plan several mailings and would like to reacli every potential customer. I am already on record as being fearful that '28's attendance of 180 will far surpass ours. But if I average my estimate with that of Francis Meyer we will do belter than they. Francis outdid himself in taking pictures of members of the Class of '28 in June and has mounted them most attractively and covered them with plastic. I had the pleasure of seeing them before ED QUIXN incoming president of the class of '28 forwarded them to LOUIE BUCKLEY. 
ART SCHEBERLE '28, brother of Rev. JOHN SCHEBERLE CSC, was on the Campus for his Reunion. You may recall that Father was hit by a crar while riding a bicycle in a drizzling rain Sept. 20, 1965. He suffered paralysis and brain clots, was in the hospital for four months and has been a patient at Holy Cross House since that time. Tlicre continues to be slight improvement in his condition. 
Please use the news insert in this issue to tell us, if only briefly, some news of yourself, your classmates, your family. 
"Here are some words of comfort from re­search workers who have looked into the histories of some 400 famous men, each one of the most outstanding statesmen, painters, warriors, poets or writers of his time. 
"Of the group's greatest achievements, 35 percent came when the men were between sixty and seventy; 23 percent when they were more than eighty. 
In other words, 66 percent of the world's greatest work has been done by men past sixty. Feel better " The Irish Digest 
HUGH J. McMAXIGAL's new address is 9555 
S. W. 182nd St., Miami, Fla. Hugh has been most cooperative and effective preceding past Re­unions in writing personal letters to classmates urging them to attend (and attendance is the measure of our success). You and he w"ill have the new Class roster very soon. Hint! Hint! 
VINCENT S. LUKASZEWICZ, Detroit, Mich, has made a doublcbarrcl address change. It is now VINCENT S. LUKAS, 2455 E. Sunrise Blvd., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. He can renew his associa­tion with Hugh, also with RAYMOND W. HACKER Miami, FRANCIS J. HAVELICK JR. Miami Shores. JOE KEEFE, Winter Haven, LOUIS J. KREM, Miami, TOM McNICHOLAS, Orlando, JERRY OVELLETTE, Miami, and HUGH O. CAH.ALAN, Fort Walton Beach. The thought comes to me, and I'm sure Margaret would concur, that mid-winter would be an ideal time to make a personal \nsit to Florida. The judgment of this many *29ers can't be wrong. And after age 65 some additional '29ers may have a similar change of address. I have one short question for you Floridans. Do you ever say, "Boy, I'm surely glad that Notre Dame was (and is) in northern Indiana"? 
KARL JOHNSON no\v has 5223 Nob Lane, Indianapolis as his address. 

JOE LENIHAN, our Class president, phoned Father Thornton from O'Harc Airport recently to say that you will soon be having a mailing from him on 40th and best Reunion. Joe is, as alMti)3, enthusiastic and has excellent ideas and plans for our June 8, 9, 10 weekend together here where we may reminisce of moments with unforgettable and remarkable men like Rev. JOHN O'HARA CSC, Rev. THOMAS STEINER CSC and KNUTE ROCKNE, may thev rest in peace, and Revs. DOREMUS, GLUECRERT. HEBERT, HOLDRITH, LANGE and MURRAY who arc still very much with us. 
Tliis morning before Mass in the basement chapel I read in the Sunday Bulletin this quote from the Church in the Modern Worlds Vatican 
n . *'The Joj-s and hopes, the griefs and anxieties of the men of this age, especially those who are poor or in any way afilictcd, these too arc the joys and hopes, the griefs and anxieties of the followers of Christ. Indeed, nothing genuinely human fails to raise an echo in their hearts" . . . and a bit later this often repeated quote, "ask not what your country iran do for you, rather ask what you can do for your country." Can you paraphrase, or othenvise apply, either of these quotes to motivate you in a personal way to help a classmate participate in the "sharing" which a Class of '29 Reunion is? 
We sincerely hope that every single one of you will have the privilege and the pleasure of being here, together again. Is nine months enough lead time for you? 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMDER 1968 
DEVERE PLUNKETT 
O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL 
NOTRE DAME, IND. 46556 
1930 
JAMES T. DOYLE 
1567 RIDGE AVE., AFT. 308 
EVANSTON. ILL. 60201 
1931 
With this issue of the ALUMNUS you will be receiving the first of eight issues to be published under the new schedule. tVhich means a call to classmates for assistance and letter writing to provide you with news for each issue. To facilitate correspondence, please use the YELLOW INFOR* MATION CARD and fill me in on summer activities. It will also he most helpful for report­ing those seen at various football games this season. 
FRA?"'. BUTORAC has finally made it back to the Pacific coast and is now living at 247 La Sena, West Covina, Calif. 91790. DICK WALSH is located at 749 East Montebello Ave., Phoenii^ Ariz. 85014. I had a card from LOU BUCKLEY '28 advising that MYRON J. MURPHY, Rock Island, III., suffered a fatal coronary May 9. Please remember him and other deceased class­mates in your prayers. 
FRED SWINT, Nashville, Tenn., has written that he plans to return to the Campus this fall for one or two games. RAY COLLINS* son Richard was married to Carole Downs, daughter of FRANK DOWNS, in Oak Park, III., May 18. As yott can see, the '31 column is a fait on the thin side bat with your cooperation it can again be the newsy column it once was. Please let n e hear bom. yoo. 
1932 
FLORENCE J. McCARTHY 
6 RIVER RD. 
SCARSDALE, N.Y. 10583 
It's always a pleasure to print good news. We have jnst learned that H. CLAY JOHNSON, fonncr Mayor of Rye, and president and chair­man of the boards tA the Royal-Globe Insurance Companies, has been elected vice-chunnaa ot the American Insurance Assoc 
RAY GEIGER says he's embarrassed that chided him tn print for not sending news. Ray has always been a good source as he travels widely and always looks up members of our Class. Ray says, **Things have been quite hectic with the Farmtr^ Almanac edition now over 3 ^ mil­lion and vdth me also editing and co-publishing a new almanac for the last four years—the AtiuHcam Farm & Heme Mmamac which is on the newsstands. This is co-published with PocJict Books and sells about ^ million each year. 
**The Formtfrj* Almanac, as you know, is sold only as a good will builder for banks or business people. Strangely enough, my worst grades at 
AIUA4N/ /N THE NEWS 

Congrats I 
PORCEtt '*1 CUitiANE '<5 BEAVEKSON '4B 
USAF Col. John E. Gccolella '40 
has been decorated with the US Joint Services Commendation Medal for his meritorious service with the combined armed forces at the North American Air Defense Command Headquarters at Ent AF6, Colo. He serves as a space systems staff officer. 
Thomas F. Carty '41, president of Carty Heating Corp., has been elected a director of the Mechanical Contrac­tors Association of America. The as­sociation represents heating, piping and air-conditioning contractors in the US. 
Frank A . O'Connell '41 Has been elected president and chief executive officer of Babson's Reports Inc., an in­vestment advisory firm with which he has been associated since 1936. He has been a director of the company since 1963. 

James F. Purcell "42 has been elected a member of the board of directois of Northern Indiana Public Service Co. He has been vice-president of public relations for the utility since 1961. 
Frank J. Culhane '45 LLB '50 has been elected vice-president and treas­urer of Hart Schaifner & Maix, cloth­ing manufacturer and retailer. He joined the company last year as vice-president of administration.' 
Wayne Beaveison '48 has been named president of Electro-Voice, a subsidiary of Gulton Industries which produces a large range of audio equip­ment. He was made an executive vice-president last year and has been with the company since 1948. 
Notre Dame were in English and I am sure FRANK O'MALLEY is the most surprised of my friends that I could be an almanac editor of distinction." 
"A few daj-s ago GEORGE JACKOBOICE '31 and most of his family came to Lcwiston and it was gnat fun. Next month HERB WEHRLEN, one of our classmates, plans to pitch a tent on my front Ia\%-n and I am looking forward to a reunion with this ancient pedagogue of New Jersey. Last fall, both at the frcsliman welcome on the Campus and at the Atlanta football game, I ran into WALT KOLBY (Kiolbasa). 
**My son Gene has just completed Ins freshman year at Notre Dame with an honorable record of 3.352. He will be studying in Innsbruck, Austria, for his sophomore year and is my first one who really has left the nest. Tliere arc three more bo>*s and a girl." 
Ray has been on the Mike Douglas show. Today show with Hugh Do^vns, Don McNeill's Breakfast Club, etc, etc. Ray ended his ncu-sy note by an in\itation: 
"Just hope that the Class—cither singly or (U>llectively—will some time gather in Lewiston, Mc , the nation's Vacationland, and \-istt tlic 
1933 
CHARLES A. CONLEY 100 E. TURNBULL AVE. 
HAVERTOWN, PA. 19083 

Tlie thanks of our Class arc due to JACK HOYT for his many fine years as our Class Sccretarj*. Because of increased duties in his law firm, due to the death of his partner of many years, he had to inform us that he could not continue. Per­sonally I felt that he did such a good job that he should be kept on. In my opinion it will be \"ery difhcult for me, or anyone else, to replace Jack. I have just sent Jack a note thanking him on bclialf of our Class. 
Please use the yellow card inserted in this issue of the ALUMNUS to send me news. I am so far off of tlie mainstream, living in suburban Philadelphia, that I'll need all tlie help I can get. If you will complete the insert, it will help—especially those of you who did not make tlic Reunion. 
Judge M.\URIC E W . LEE, our Class president, was welcomed to NYC by Jack Hoyt July 13. Maurie led a large contingent of Illinois Elks to the Centennial Convention of the B.P.O.E. He has held many lodge, state, and national olBccs in that organization. From Manhattan his group will head for Las Vegas. BERNARD M. "MIKE" DcLAY represented the Nebraska Elks. Mike has also held high national office in the organiza­tion. I joined the Connersrillc (Ind.) Elks many years ago. 
JOE M.\LOXE, originally from Pittsburgh, is now the mgr. of the Veterans Administration regional ofHcc in Milwaukee. PHIL FAHERTY lost all of his football applications when Rita housecleancd while he was attending the Reunion. He sa>-s he still will attend the Navy game in Philadelphia. 
PETE CONNELLY sailed for Europe via United States Lines from New York on the Saturday following the Reunion. Thanks, Dot and Pete, for the inWtation to the bon voyage party but I was still weak from the Reunion. Your rescr\*ation 
ED^VARD F. MANSFIELD 523 W. HILLSDALE 
SAN MATEO. CAL. M403 

1934 
WILLIAM F. RYAN 1620 E. AVASHINGTON AVE, 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46617 

1935 
Within the past few weeks we learned with deep regret that two more members of our Class have passed away. 
DAN CUNHA died July 2 in Troy, NY. Dan guided Siena Col., where he coached basketball for 21 years, to national prominence in 1947-52. His 1950 team captured the National Catholic In­\ntational Tourney in 1950. Wc all remember Dan as a 3-5port star at ND. For those who wish to write to Mrs. Cunha, her address Is 1105 Fifth Ave., Waten-lict, NY 12189. 
JERRY MOLINARI died June 30 of a coronary attack. He is survived by his wife, two sons and 
venerable almanac editing, calendar nunufacturing, 
specialty salesman from Maine. We are located on 
the Maine turnpike at Exit 13 and we are not 
superstitious.'* 
All of us have a great opportunity - to Tcvere our late Arclibishop PAUL HALLINAN by mak­ing contributions to the \^llage of St. Joseph, an orphanage located in Atlanta. I rcceivcid the following letter: 
**Thank you very kindly for your generous check which represents a donation in memory of Archbishop Hallinan. 
"As you know, the children at the Village of St. Joseph have always been very dear to the heart of this great man, and as late as March 3, just before he died, he made a trip out to the Village to give the children his last blessing. 
"If you have not had an opportunity to visit the Village we hope that whenever you are in this vicinity you will stop by and let ns show you around. We are all very proud of our new home, thanks to the vision and foresight of our wonderful Archbishop Hallinan. 
*'Our best way to thank you for yonr kindness to us is to remember you in our prayers, and this "kvc do daily. Sincerely yours. Sister John Frances 
has been made for the Nov. 2 weekend of the Na\y game. 
It is my intention to attend the ND-Oklahoma game on Campus Sept. 21. I'll be at the Morris Inn prior to the game to greet classmates and get neivs. LEO HODEL and I will establish head­quarters near the outdoor bar and the putting greens in back of the Inn. Our President, Judge Lee, will attend the ND-Illinois game on Campus Oct. 19. He can be reached at Randall's Inn. 
The only game in the East this year will be the "Ssvy game Nov. 2, at Philadelphia. Those of you who are not electioneering are invited to attend. The '33 headquarters will be with the other alumni at the Benjamin Franklin Hotel, 9th and Chestnut, Philadelphia, Pa. 19105. The Philly ND Club plans a rally on the Friday night before the game and a cocktail party immediately after the game on Saturday. Both events will be at that hotel. Special busses will run round trip to and from the hotel and stadium. If enough classmates will attend I'll arrange for a hospitality center—if not we'll meet in PETE CONNELLVs suite. Be sure to make your hotel reservations early. Be sure to mention in your rcscr\'ation request that you arc a member of the Class of '33. 
I received word of the death of JOHN T. YEISER and sent a letter of s>-mpathy. on behalf of our Class, to his sister K^ry. Rev. JIM DONNELLY also informed the family that he was remembering John in his prayers and his Ma<ses. John was a courtly Southern gentleman and his mellow Paducah accent will be remembered. 
At the Reunion my room was across the hall from JIMMIE ROSS and LUCIEN KEMPF. TItanks to their very astute observations, I received several excellent market tips. Now all I need Is the money to invest. Lucien was reappointed our Class ^ent for the Annual Alumni Fund by Pres. Lee. You will receive a letter soon from our Class agent concerning the current drive. Please give him a sympathetic response. The percentage of our Class contributing is about 50%. 
five daughters. Mrs. Molinari's address is C2 Diets St., Oneonta, NY. 
Many of you, no doubt, were unaware that Jerry suffered from a muscular disease these last three years which severely handicapped his abil­ity to walk. However, with the fighting spirit he showed at ND he didn't quit. The following ex­cerpt from an article in the Oneonta newspaper sent by JOE KNAPP exemplifies this. I am sure it will give you the same lift it gave me: 
**Late last year doctors told dty clerk Jerry Iklolinari that he was sufi'cring from a muscular disease and might never walk again. But Jerry Molinari was a fighter. He made up his mind that he was going to walk again and set out to prove it. Every day Jerry went to the Oneonta YMCA to swim. It w*as painful at first. But he wouldn't give up. Then he could swim longer and longer. The longer he SAvam the better he could walk. Finally Molinari completed 50 miles. And he kept on walking. He limped a little but Jerry MoUnvi kept on walking. 
Administrator" ' So if you misplaced the address it U—^29G9 Butner Rd., SW, Atlanta, Ga. 30331. 
ED KOONTZ sent along this item: *'You ex­pressed a desire to have the new address of Tony Diaz—thb is the last as of last Christmas: Antonio R. Diaz-Nicoli Recaudador de Rentas Frivada Hidago Sur No. 18 Izucan de Matamoros, Fudla, Mexico. At ND he never used his full name. In Mexico both the father's and mother's name should be included .. . Guess he figured that the whole name would be too big a mouthful for us. 
"Have missed our last t^vo Reunions because of conflicts with the dates .. . I prefer to think of ND during the 'Golden Days,' anyway. Best regards, Ed Koontz '32." 
Thanks, Ed, and that is a handsome picture of you on your letterhead. 
One last reminder. If any of you want to meet at a "Gate number" before the Na\7 game, let roe know. I'm sure we will all be around the same section. Also, this issue of the ALUHNUS carries the yellow information card. Please-really please—send along an item or two. 
ED ACKERMAN gave the Reunion group an interesting account of his direction of the social work for the diocese of Sioux Falls, SD. STEVE BANAS informed me that he studied engineering after getting his LLB from Notre Dame. He still appears to be in playing weight. ED ECKERT picked up JOE CLARK to bring him to the Reunion. Ed, incidentally, went to great expense and trouble to make our 33th Reunion the suc­cess it was. Please send him a "thank you" note for his fine cfTorts as Class president from '63 to '68. 
PAT CROWLEY, our Laetare medalist, because of a trip to Europe, expressed regrets at his in­ability to attend our Reunion. NORM DUKE was the youngest looking classmate attending the Reunion. He b now living in Maitland, Florida and has been admitted to the practice of law in that state. RAY NABER, Norm's old roommate, attended a Reunion for the first time. TIM TOOMEY '30 informs me that he sees H.\ROLD RODDY, of our Class, in Washington. Harold was formerly of North Platte, Neb. Also in the nation's capital arc JACK KENKEL and JOE BORDA. 
BILL CAMPBELL, president of the New York Subway Alumni, is bringing a group to the Na\'y game and will invite members of the Class of '33 in his area to join him. PAT IkfURPHY had to attend a ceremony in which his son received his doctorate. The son is an N D graduate. This im­portant event prevented Pat from being \rith his friends at the Reunion. 
Irene and I arc very happy as our son, Martin, just made his Lieutenant (j-s*) and is Hying out of Puerto Rico. 
Dr. ROBERT E. DONOVAN ^vrites that he enjoyed the Reunion and looks forward to our next in five years. Bob is the civilian medical officer at the Army materials and mechanics re­search center. Watertown, Mass. He plans to attend the Oklahoma game and will be at the Morris Inn. 
"Last week Jerry was admitted to Fox Hosp., suffering from pneumonia and a slight heart at­tack. Sunday, after ser\^ng for almost a year and a half as city clerk, Jerry Molinari died." 
Masses have been said for Dan and Jerry. In behalf of the Class, we extend our sincere con­dolences to their wives and families. Remember them and other deceased members of the Class — whose numbers are growing too fast — in your Masses and prayers. 
CHARLIE MAHER wrote from Ihfiami that his son graduated from N D this year. Charlie Jr was at the top of his Class in automotive design, and has joined Ford in their design dept. 
The response to our request for a "show of hands" for a Purdue reunion has been negative. This issue has a "yclla" card insert for your convenience in writing us. Help, please! 
 PALKOVIC 
301 MECHANIC ST. 
ORANGE, N.J. 07030 

1936 
LARRY 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1968 
•dAArr JOSEPH p. QUINN 
I U K / PO. BOX 275. LAKE LENAPE J.vO / ANDOVER, NJ. 07821 

Look for the postcard — bring yotir Class up­
to.date. ED HOYT used the last insert to report 
on all the Hoyts and to live up to his Reunion 
promise to write. Ed is a director of Interna­
tional Executives Assoc of NYC and still teaches 
at NYU graduate school in addition to regular 
employment. Son Jim is an ambassador from the 
US liinng in Switzerland and also attends Mont­
clair State, daughter at Patcrson St. and an­
other at Douglas so the HOYTS are Jersey ori­
enuted. I saw his brother JACK HOYT at the 
UND night in NYC along with BILL FALLON. 
JERRY CLAEYS and wife, enroutc to Europe 
to visit candy factories, were in NYC. JIM 
WALDRON, attorney from Trenton, NJ, reports 
on visit to Florida and ED HUISKING making 
the rounds and also met BERT VON BAUER '36. 
JIM has a son at Georgetown Prep, Washington. 

EDDIE GANNON, formerly vicc-pres. of 
Operations Machlett Labs, sub. of Raytheon, 
has a new management consulting firm, E. J. 
Gannon Assoc., featuring long and short term 
business planning. Good Luck, Eddie. It is now 
the Honorable JAMES H. LEVI, elected to posi­
tion of Circuit Court Judge of Wood, Waupaca 
and Portage Counties in Wisconsin. So, beware, 
don't get in trouble wherever those Counties arc. 
I'll stick to Westchester Cty, NY, and Judge 
JOHN MARB.\CH. 

I can just see PAUL FOLEY peddling his Time mag pictures in these counties of Wisconsin. JACK GILLESPIE reports being in a golf tournament with the liquor store baron of NJ, TOM HUGHES, who weighs in at 250 and shot a score of the same at the outing of a Central NJ Club of which HOWARD GILLESPIE '39, is pres. Then at Burning Tree in Connecticut at a paddle tennis match (real rough deal). Jack met GREG CECALA playing Avith the opposition club. No ncw^ from Cecala in a long time. 
It took the Sparling Good Dealers mag to give us the cold dope on HARRY MARR, Hingham, Mass., who has been appointed NE agency rep. for Vita Master exercise equipment. Picture of Marr reveals the receded hairline, and the big smile for you lads from the "B" squad. .All this special info comes from the little mayor of Salina, AL SCHWARTZ, who wants me to check on EDDIE REARDON's story of meeting up with GEORGE BONFIELD in Florida. 
SCHWARTZ'S No. 2 son graduated from N D this June. AL also states that brotlicr-in-law PINKY CARROLL is now a grandfather for the second time and has son-in-law from ND Class of '62, and Pinky also has a son overseas. The secretary expects to take in a few games this fall since No. 1 son Kevin will be a frosh. Will look for news outside of gate 14. Don't forget to use the postcard in this issue. Keep an eye on Iowa and Kerry Reardon of the Kansas City Reardons. . 
1938 
BURNIE BAUER 1139 WESTERN AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46625 

Haven't heard from most of you, or your «-ives, since our 30th Reunion, so presume it was satis­factory and your trip was safe. Aftermath news that came to me from the Alumni office included notice that JOSEPH P. MANNEBACH died a year ago July 23, 1967, in Kenilworth, III. No further details. Rev. JACK ANTON was elected president of the American Beda Assoc, of priests, an organization of graduates of Beda seminary in Rome for late vocations. 
Some mysteries turned up at the Reunion — or rather didn't. CHARLEY "CHUCK" BEAS-LEY's ten dollars showed but he didn't. Same for EDGAR "ED" BERNARD, JOHN F. CLIFFORD, CHARLEY DUKE, Dr. LAWRENCE "LARRY" EBY, Dr. DENNIS "DENNY" EMANUEL, JAMES "JIM" SWEEDYK, PHIL GALLETTA, TOMMY MAHER, WALT MARSHALL. JIM FOLEY, JOHN FRANCIS, "JACK" MAHONEY and JOE MANDC. However, the vice versa also happened so we still broke even and were able to give sufficient toasts to all concerned. 
Several nice notes of regret arrived. "CHUCK" DALY' S came from NYC where he was meeting his two daughtei^ Just returning from a year's schoolmg m Ireland. ROBERT J. "BOB" MUL­LEN filled us in on his last 30 years from his home at 813 Bonifant St., Silver Spring, Md. 20910. Bob stayed in the Navy as a civilian in Naval InteUigence until 1962, seeing JERRY LEDVIN A regularly in the reserves. He is now in the defense intelligence agency. His first vnle Mary died In 1958 leaving him with four chU-
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER W68 

Rev. Richard Timm 
HELPS STAMP OUT V/ORMS 

lUoRMs are his life work. Nematodes, " to be exact. They're a group of worms with long, cylindrical, luueg­mented bodies — like the hookwoim and pinworm. Rev. Richard Timm CSC sees the worms as a fascinating area of nature in which he can con­tribute by his own research. 
In 1949 after completing an under­graduate philosophy degree at Notre Dame and being ordained. Father Timm went to Catholic U. to fill out his biology and chemistry background so he could set up a science course at the newly established Notre Dame College in Dacca, East Pakistan. While at Catholic U., he studied under a famous parasitologist and managed to complete all the requirements except for the thesis for both master's and PhD degrees in two years. So he was allowed to remain an additional year to complete the doctorate. 
Then he was off to Pakistan. "I served nine months at the govenunent medical college, Dacca, as Fulbright professor of medical parasitology, and spent a three-month extension of my grant as director of research on plant-parasitic nematodes in East Pakistan and discovered two important nematode parasites of rice." Rice is one of Paki­stan's most important crops and para­sites were inflicting heavy economic damage to the country. 
Father Timm finally set up and be­came head of the science department at Notre Dame College and in 1955 he published a biology laboratory man­ual and in 1958 he produced a text­book which is now used in all the colleges of East Pakistan and is in its fifth edition. 
When severe wilt began to afflict the jute crop. Father Timm went to work to discover whether his nema­todes were causing the damage. "A soil fungus was shown to be the chief cause of the wilting disease but, in association with root-knot nematode, the plants were killed 100 percent," 
dren. He married Anne in 1959 and now have six more! After retirement Bob plans to teach and is about to pick up his second MA (History of Art) this year. 
JOE KRUPA sent a clipping from the Portland, Ore. Journal announcing FRANK LARWOOD as Portland's 196S Transportation Man of the Year. Joe also wants to know about JIM WOODS — last known living in Lyndhurst, NJ but no record in our Class files, and BERTRAM E. "BERT" SMITH — somewhere on Long Island, but noth­ing in our files. Can anyone help locate these two? 
Some 28 sent notes of regret that they couldn't make the Reunion. These included: WILLIAM R. DUGGAN, American Consul General, Durban, Republic of South Africa; JIM REILLEY from new address in Centralia, Pa. (PO Box 1242); JOE CLIFFORD from New Haven, Conn.; "CHUCK" TERRY from Kewanee, lU., who bad two sons graduating from college plus a wedding of one of them that weekend; JOHN RIEDER from Los Angeles; Rev. MICHAEL G. O'BRIEN from Salzburg, Austria; Dr. D.AN MONAGHAN from some hospital in Korea; Rt. Rev. Msgr. ANTHONY M. "TONY" GOMES from FaU 
he reports. From his research on the 
subject he drew information for four 
papers to add to more than 50 other 
scientific works he has published. 
Father Timm's wrork proved so valu­able that for a time he was spirited away to Thailand and the niilippines on a SEATO postdoctoral research fellowship to carry out a survey of the plant-paiasitic nematodes in those coim­tries. 
Father Timm works with students at the U. of Dacca and the Agricul­tural U. as well as at Notre Dame College to help them help themselves and their countrymen by doing their o«m work in the same and related fields. 
In the time not devoted to science. Father Timm directs seminarians, mod­erates the Debate Club and is deputy president of the Student Union. He is also collaborating with the Smith­sonian Institute in research of marine nematodes. 
With all his other duties he still manages time for an occasional excur­sion in retreat giving and preaching. 
Currendy he is back in the US as a visiting professor in the department of Hematology at the U. of California at Davis. 
Father Timm's research and publi­cations have gained him international repute and the list of those who re­quest his services is long. 
He is a missionary in the true mean­ing of the word, for he not only min­isters to the souls of his people but also aids them in improving their ma­terial state. Worms aren't such a bad life after all. 
River, Mass.; HERBERT P. "HERB" G.ARD­NER of Cincinnati who has two sons at ND. 
Captain JOHN P. "JACK" FOX on his way with his carrier to Vietnam waters; ED­WARD J. "ED" ENGUSH from Yankton, SJ>., is attending the Democratic Natl. Convention in Chicago and will visit the Campus then. HENRY "HANK" MACKIN had twm daughters grad­uating from high school in Kankakee. GEORGE McDERMOTT thinks his six grandchildren lead the class. HENRY L. "HANK" LIPSIE's son graduated from New Mexico — a long way from home in Maryland. PAin. SCHAUB and DON SMITH are both in Colorado. Califomians "ED" DOWLING and CHARLEY WEBSTER, Virginian PAUL NOTT, New Yorker RICHARD "DICK" CARNEY, Ohioan JAMES "JIM" McGET-TRICK, and CHARLES "CHUCK" KELLEY of the Wihnmgton, DeL, Kelleys. 
Hope all you lads keep the resolution yon made to me to write once in a generation. Meanwhile, don't forget to vote — at least once. Finally, I'm glad you nicknamed me "SWEDE," — all the gays we used to call "Red," aren't anymore. Now we're all "Eagles" Gray and otherwise. 

JOSEPH E. HANNAN the Long Island area. Jack is engaged in en ^ article entitled **The *P' in Parish is for People" 1804 GREENWOOD DR. neering. Ed is in the insurance business and re­in the June issue of Columbia, the Knights of 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46614 sides at 810 Long Hill Rd., Briardiff Manor, Cdumbus* magazine. WILLIAM BUDD was 

1939 
"SY 10510. At this writing Ed's wife is very seri­named manager of bench-scale research for the 
ROBERT G. S.«JFORD 
233 W. CENTRAL AVE. 
LOMBARD. ILL. G014S 

1940 
J.AMES F. SPELLMAN SPELLMAN & MADDEN 
342 MADISON AVE. 

1941 
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017 
WILLIAM M. HICKEY 
5500 W. 73RD ST. 
CHICAGO, ILL. 60638 

1942 
We hear from JOHN H. CLIFFORD, who now 
lives at 168 Pleasant Grove Road, Ithaca, NY, 
where he is a special agent with tlic FBI, having 

been transferred recently from Plattsburgh, NY. 
Tliis brings John back to the Finger Lakes region 
of New York where he was born and raised. 
He attended the wedding of BILL FOSTER'S daughter in .Auburn, XY in June. His travels bring him in contact witli PAUL \V. "BILL" KELLY, who is in the real estate business in Syracuse. 
 KAISER 
307 CHERRV 
CHATS>VORTH, ILL. 60921 

1943 
FRANK 
After three weeks vacation in Massachusetts} following our 25th, JOHN "2EKE" WOOD re­turned to Saigon via Zurich, Rome, and Bangkok and is again at work with Page Communications Engineers, Inc., APO San Francisco 96309. Zcke would be liappy to look up sons, relatives, or friends of classmates stationed in Vietnam. 
HARRY MCKNIGHT, 400 Maycox Ave., Nor­folk, Va. 23505 reports that lie really enjoyed the 25th — his first visit to the Campus since 1947. LEO LEWIS writes that he will be up for the Oklahoma and Purdue games. 
A letter from JACK WIGGINS reports that Rev. JEROME J. HEALY OSB is public rela­tions director and alumni director of the Abbey School, a college prep school in Canyon City, Colo., after four years of parish duty. JACK BENNETT MD, chief radiologist at St. Mary's Hosp., San Francisco, has been elected president of the San Francisco Arclidiocesan Council of Catholic Men. 
Your secretary was in New York to attend the wedding of a daughter of an old Army buddy. One of the guests at the reception was Catherine Vilalc, 1165- 84th St.. BrookK-n, NY U228, a sister of the late VITO CAPPELLO. She and Vito*s mother still read the ALUMN'US and would ^prcciatc seeing or hearing from any of our Class. 
I had lunch with JOHN POWERS, public rela­tions director with J. Walter Thompson Agen­cy. The Powerscs have two girls and three boys. John Jr will enter ?CD this fall. John's brother TOM '42 is a reporter with the Chicago Tribune. Another brother. Rev. JOSEPH, is vice-pres. of the Universitv of Portland. Tom reported that THOMAS J. McCREEDY JR passed a^vay. 
I stopped to see LEO J. RITTER in the com­munication div. of Penn Central Railroad. Leo, his wife, and nine children reside at 11 Wyndham Rd.- Scanjdale. NY 10584. 
GEORGE KELLY is director of public relations for the .American Bankers' Assoc He is the father of five, the eldest a Phi Beta Kappa grad­uate of ND this year. 
JOE M.\R.\, his wife, the former Mary Hazel Brady, of Chicago, and seven children reside at 62 Mont:^uc St.. Brook!>-n, N ^ 11201. Joe is a fire insurance adjuster with Hoerchcr-Campbcll Asso­ciates of 99 John St., NY. Joe reported the death of our vcrv good friend. AL CLARK. 
WILLIAM Q. KEEN.AN writes that after eight years as general solicitor on the staff of Railway Express he has joined Arthur Arsham and the pri\-ate practice of transportation law. The Kcenans and their five children reside ra White Plains where he is on the Board of Educa­tion. He has just finished a term as chairman of the Administrative Law Committee of Association of tlic Bar of the City of New- York. He has also been elected a delegate to the Democratic Na­tional Convention. 
I talked with H.ANK KANE, JACK ^VIET­HOFF, JOHN BOYLE, and ED DORAN and urged them to look up some of our classmates and prod them into writing a few lines. Henry is a free-lance ad writer. John is a manufac­turer's rep., calling on the construction trade in 
ously ill, having been in a coma for three months. 
Please remember her in your prayers. 
I tried to contact every classmate in the Metro­

politan area, but my luck would have been mnch 
better had I had more recent addresses, phone 
numbers, area codes, etc. 
This issue of the ALUMNUS carries Jt yeUow information card. How about using it right now? If this is not adequate, write a letter — the longer, the better. 
I also suggest that any one of our Class who has a son at ND write me immediately, giving name, year, college, and residence hall, and they will appear in our next issue. Should any one of you seek this information for your son, drop a note, and I will fon%'ard the names and addresses to you in time for the football season. This Av'ould also be a good way for the papas to get together. 
Ohio Men — don't forget that the Class of '43 has an excellent candidate for the US Senate — JOHN GILLIGAN. Give him your support. 
1944 
JOSEPH A. NEUFELD P.O. BOX 853 
GREEN BAY, WIS. 54305 

Just in case the ivord has not been prodaimed, in the future the ALUMNUS ^ I be published two additional times yearly. More mail de^ierate­ly is wanted. Let ever>-onc cooperate and make our 25th jubilee year a truly newsworthy mem­orable one. 
TOM ROLFS has called a meeting of Class officers and several '44crs for the day pricn* to the ND-Northwcstem game on October li . Anyone having worthwhile suggestions for the Reunion activities please forward them to Tom, GEORGE B.\RISCILLO or your secretary prior to that date. All comments will be welcomed. 
ROBERT J. BYRNES has been appointed director of tech. services in the manufacturing div. of Smith, Kline & French Laboratories in Philadelphia. The company specializes in prescrip­tion medicines and other health-related products. 
HARRY YEATES has a new position. He de­cided it w:ts time to make a change. As of sev­eral months ago he became a member of a public relations firm — Hudson Assoc — with offices on Lexington Ave. in NYC. Had your secretary an appropriate picture of Harry, it cert^nly would have been forwarded to be included in this bsue. The caption naturally would be 'TH E MOST ELIGIBLE — CLASS OF '44." 
Tliis column is brief. Blame it on whatever you so desire. More response to the demands for mail would help considerably. Lets do something to correct this deplorable situation. 
FRANK M. LINEHAN 
P.O. BOX 5000 
BINGHAMTON, N.Y. 13902 

1945 
JOE LAUCK, one of the few RO's in active Na\'al Rcscr\'e, hcads-up sales and engineering for Mitco, Inc., Grand Rapids. Joe spends his fall weekends following the Fighting Irish, watching his nephew. Chuck Lauck. 
H.\NK PAYNE'S son Tom is a National Merit Scholar Finalist and a Jewel Scholarship Winner. Daughter Lan will be a junior at Wdnter in St. Louis. Col. ED SHEA MD is commander of the 26th Tactical Hosp. at Ramstein ,^r Base, Ger^ many, and recently received the Distinctive Service Ribbon. DICK AVIDUP has been "cal­culated" into our Class and we are happy to have him. Dick is inventory management staff officer, Picatinny Arsenal, Dover, NJ. Dick and Betty have three children, Cecelia, a '66 grad of Manchester (Ind.) College, Dave a recent 3hIorris Hills HS grad, and Dick. 
JOHN POWER reports from his Windy City office that his son has won a Navy RO scholar­ship and has selected Tulane. News has been sparse and with the added number of issnes, please send in the "yellow card" when it is in the ALUMNUS. Thanks. 
 P. RICHISKI 
6 ROBIN PLACE OLD GREENWICH, CONN. 0G870 

1946 
PETER 
^ A J l-r CHARLES J. DEYMAN, pres. of I MzL / Wolverine Express Inc., has been ap-J-"^ ' pointed to the board of directors of the Hackley Union National Bank and Trust Co. The company was fotmded by his father. MIKE McCARVlLLE was author of an 
research diviuon of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. 
1948 
GEORGE J. KEENAN 177 ROLLING HILLS RD. 
CLIFTON, N.J. 07013 

Word has been received recently that there will be more issues of the ALUMNUS but along with it go shorter columns, so you can see the spot I am in. However do your part and keep some news coming. I've had some nice letters since the Reunion along with snapshots taken. Every­one keeps complaining about the good time they had and that is what we like to hear. 
Of course, at our Reunion we missed such stalwarts as BILL FITZHARRIS, BILL BON­WICH, JOE DUFFY, LARRY RYAN, TOM CARLIN and PAUL LONG, to name a few, and we know there must have been something very pressing to keep them away. Of course there arc five years to plan for the next one and by that time loose ends such as graduations, con­firmations, etc. should be out of the way but there will probably be marriages coming up as we all get older. 
Judging from the returns of those who ex­pected, to come and those w*ho show*ed up at the Reunion, if evcr>*thing would have vvorked out, we would have really had a crowd. JIM CAR­ROLL sent his regards to the Class all the way from Melbourne, Australia. Rev. FRED C. GODDARD, the big Maryknoller of Georges next to the Colfax fame, is now in Japan in the missions and sent his regrets that he could not make it. LEARY KREISSL now a Com­mander in the Na^? at Norfolk sent his regrets. Rev. CHARLES SCHLECK promised to pray for all of us in his Mass on the Reunion week­end since he couldn't make it. BERNIE POP­HAM MD was practicing internal medicine in I/juisville and couldn't fit in the Reunion. LEO MURPHY said that the 20 years flew by and seem like yesterday but he still couldn't make it. Rev. JOHN McCARTHY also remembered his classmates at Reunion time during his Mass at that time. (We sure had a good weekend be­cause we were getting prayers from all direc­tions.) M.\X LUDWIG couldn't make it but said the Class of '48 should go on record against the escalation of the war in Vietnam. Sorry, Max, but the subject never came up. H.ANK KOCH­MAN out in Granada Hills, Calif., wished he could have made it. BART JOHNSON, a faith­ful performer at every past Reunion, missed this one and we missed Bart. 
There arc many to he heard from as to why they did not come and why they didn't make it, and many for good reasons. However, cver>'thing has been changing over the past 20 years and it will change in the next five years and probably more so. Maybe Notre Dame has changed, the students have changed but the people you knew have not changed and that is the best part of it all. You don't have to like or agree with what you sec or hear, but you'll like seeing your old friends and also letting off steam of how you feel today about what is going on in the world around you. 
We talked about these things at the Reunion. We talked about not being able to get our sons into Notre Dame now and in the future while the creeps do get in. Kfany of us ^vere a lot older and were subject to more restraint in our days and do not like what we see or hear, plus we don't like to feel wc have to agree. Based on what was the general consensus of opinion, the old school likes it the way it was more so than the way it is, and that goes for the clergy as well as the alumni. 
Right now it is vacation time and things have been quiet since the gala weekend. There is a little something to say about so many that wc all know but it can best be covered by getting together more often or at least for the big one ahead of us. This is < the uphill climb now and everyone has their sights on 1973 and they want to see everyone again. So take care of yourself and also take someone in tow for the next time around. 
X cannot acknowledge all the mail I received since the Reunion and also the correspondence before it, but I want those who sent in letters to know that they were read aloud at our Class dinner and the sentiments expressed to the Class. This took place between collectiotis. Your Class 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1968 

secretary spent the better part of the weekend 
passing the bat. First time around was for tbe 
door prize, three autographed bottles of AN­
GELO BERTELLI's private label beverage, then 
there was the expense of the Class cocktail party 
and the last collection was to bail out the Class 
cocktail party. The residue was burned in the 
form of candles at the grotto for a safe trip home 
for everyone and also to bail out yours truly so 
that he could fly home first class instead of 
tourist and then take a cab from the airport to 
the house. 
In closing at this time, I look forward to hear­

ing from you again during the next five years. 
It can be dull without info about you, so let's 
get off to a good start. There's a yellow card in 
this issue, please use it. 
LEO L. ^VESLEY 
155 DRimVOOD LANE 
ROCHESTER. N.Y. 14617 

1949 
JOHN W. THORNTON 
4400 MONSERRATE ST. 
CORAL GABLES, FLA. 33146 

1950 
It is requested that you remember in your prayers 
the souls of all of the faithfully departed of all 
of our family and friends, including my father 
who passed July 4. I guess the best way to view 
these h^penings is that although they create 
great sorrow for those left behind, for the de­
parted it is a joyous graduation into Heaven. 
I hope that you arc all enjoying this Fall and 

that you are working toward the goal of hap­
piness you have set for yourselves and your loved 
ones. 
THEODORE T. GORE, president and general mgr. of Gore Newspapers, assumed duties as resident executive officer and will cont inuc as publisher of the Sun-Centinel. ROBERT V. WELCH is contesting it for the position of "top banana" of the Indiana department for the 30th anniversary year and is running against RALPH "Curly" CUSHMAN. The winner will be decided at the 50th department convention. THEODORE 
P. MANSOUR of Flint, Mich, is a candidate for District 14 Seat of the Genesee County board of supervisors. He is chairman of the board person­nel committee, a member of its ways and means special services committee. 
VINCENT SCULLY LLB is in charge of ad­ministration in the Kemper group in the Chicago home office; JIM WALSH is doing well in the Lord, Bissel and Brook Chicago office. TOM WEITHERS and JERRY FRAZEL arc doing well in the trial and office practice in Chicago. Rev. DON KUNKEL is in Sylva, NC not far from DICK. fRANKEL in Ashevillc. 
RONALD C.ALLANAN is asst. to the president, Wagner Electric Corp., automotive and elec­tronics, Newark, NJ. RON CAMPBELL is project engineer, Metcalf and Eddy Engineers, NYC. AL CAMPO is sales engineer with Conoflow Corp., a manufacturer of control valves. Fort Lee, NJ. S.\M CARAPELLA is research superintendent for American Smelting and Refining Co., South Plainfleld, NJ. 
DICK CORDASCO (JOE ARCHIBALD now has a similar condition with his receding hairline) is as distinguished looking as Joe Archibald, and is in the Trenton office of the Economic Develop­ment Administration of the US Dept. of Com­merce. John Crane is the vicc-pres. of Huntley and Crane, graphic design for marketing. New Brunswick, NJ. 
The ALUMNUS magazine is starting to be publbhcd eight times a year so please give me all of the information you can by way of the yellow cards. Mall mc a yellow card this week. 
 JENNINGS 
BORG-WARNER CORP. 
200 S. MICHIG.\N AVE. 
CHICAGO. ILL. 60604 

1951 
JAMES 
Just a year ago JIM KITTELL was identified as the new CO of the 34th Acromcdical Evacua­tion Squadron; Jim and his unit were ordered to active duty in May of this year. Within two weeks their outfit was at Yokota AB, Japan, assisting the 56th Acromcdical Evacuation Squad­ron in the return of patients to the U.S. Their families were not permitted to accompany the unit but if the tour is extended, perhaps this situation will cliange. 
AL BAILEY, who has been teaching at Provi­dence, is now in Washington, DC finishing up work on his PhD. Al Is studying the British and American diplomacy during the latter part of 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1968 
the second World War, regarding the entry of Turkey into the conflict, for the Department fif the ^my . AI is also vitally interested in the present conflict because he is engaged to Miss Mary Ffiester, an Army nurse now assisting in the evacuation of patients from Saigon. If all goes well they will be married about tlie ead of this year. 
At the Chicago Club Outing io August we saw CHARLIE O'LAUGHUN who lives in Chi­cago at 9420 S. Pleasant. Charlie was married last year to the former SheUa Kelly. In spite of all the hot weather Charlie tells us they are helr-condltioncd. The new arrival should be here within a couple of months. 
With Charlie, AI and some of the other grocnns recently announced in this column, it appears our Class is not as moribund as I thought. However at the Golf Outing JOE KIGALI and JACK BECKER were seen playing dominoes. PHIL FACCENDA came up from South Bend to play, but some of our usually faithful crew were absent this year. 
Received an informative note from TOM CAR­ROLL, president of Master Machine Tools in Hutchinson, Kan. Tom and Jane (Flynn) have been married for 12 years and they have six children: Charlie, Mary Rose, Tommy, Lncy, John and Patrick. Here is a portion of the conk­munique from Tom: 
"Just a note to report that I ran into DAN BRENNAN and his lovely wife Shiriey in WichiU recently. Dan has been teaching geology at the 
U. of Wichita for a year. Come September be, Shirley and their seven kids will be moving to Ithaca, NY where he'll be teaching at the Uni­versity. His seven put him one up on Jane and me but I'm conceding victory to him (I hope). Out here in the whcatlands I don't h'ave much chance to sec many of our classmates, except, occasionally, TOM KENNEDY in Sallna. U I can get to the Northwestern game, I'll be snre to check in at O'Shaughnessy afterwards." Many thanks, Tom. 
FRED BRICE is now a deacon and this sum­

mer he is at the Cathedral in Miami. Fred is 
preaching and administering the sacraments In 
the sort of internship that is now fairly common. 
Fred mentioned he is helping to get rid of the 
unclean spirits, but I don't know whether that 
means exorcising the demons or whether all the 
deacons arc drinking the White Lightning manit­
facturcd in the backwoods of Florida. 
JOHN ALLPORT lives in Saratoga, Calif, at 12298 Candy Ct. John married Jean (Addens) and they have four children, Ann, Mary, Charlie and Jean. John is vice-president of Optronix in Saratoga and they produce specialized electro-optical systems. 
We arc in dire need of news and would ap­preciate any little note you can squeeze out. You may see elsewhere in this Issue that the frequency of publication Is increasing, so all contributions will be gratefully accepted. Use the yellow post­card to drop me a note. 
WILLIAM B. KING 
613 E. DONMOYER AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46614 

1952 
W. F. "BUD" STUHLDREHEK 11006 JEAN RD. S.E. 
HUNTSVILLE, ALA. 35803 

1953 
1053 lAUf ttOBBMT L. BEBmy 
179 4 IMVV UIB.2E Cmr NATKHUL 
•ANK BLDG. OMAHA. NEBS, Cnoe 

ThoK «iio nuKd our "first" Sanioa cntuair milled oat oa a numt cni<qralile and ™«—•» JJ T event. WiDe the toniout ouMeiiciDy m i aot what we had hoped, it was aa excelleat oae aader the dmmwtancei. Evoyone talked old thnct, ic­newed acqaaintancei, nated aboot thoie who were abMnt (you ihoold have heard axne of the itorics 
— Tou simpl]r have to be then to defend joondf). Everyone alio Jai a Ettle biagging about his ca m and brilliant peifuiuiancq. 
We abo qient quite a bit of time talking aboat 

the past, present and future of the Law SehooL 
In this we were aided by a most r***""* and 
informative visit with De u (yMeaia. 
Due to publication deadlines, this tcpcet has to 

be kept short. FIcase use the yellow post ca d 
included with the magarine to advise me of your 
acts and doings and changes in positions and so on. 
Here are the good guys who attended the Ke­muoa: BILL ANTONIS, DICK AUDINO, BOB BERRY, MAYNARO BISSONNETTE, DICX GLOBENSKY, JOE HARRISON, JOE Ifac-KRELL, BILL MacWLLAN, TOU llEANEY, WALLY NEYEDLIN, GEORGE PATTON, BILL ROCHE, RALPH SCHULZ and DAVE THORN­TON. 
1954 
MILTQN 1. BEAUDINE 
21 SIGNAL HILL BLVD. 
E. ST. LOUIS, ILL. 6ZZ0S 

Start maliog yonr plans now for our 15 year (gads!) Rcunioii cone Jime. It could be onr last, you know. Consdcr thu: in another year after Bfr. Rossi finisbcs his resh^iins of Notre Dame he'll become an Alomnus. This natoraUy qualifies hint to create a new Alnmni Assodatioa and quite possSbty he*II do away with Jtennioiis. Concerning Reunions I'd love to recdve yo«ir snggestions on possAIe activities or programs %re ought set up. It's your Reunion — talk it up. 
Man has been slow and starting with this tssoe we'll be going to press (as they say in the trade) ri^t times a year. I'd be happj to hear from your wives and even yoor tecn-a^ sons and daughters. Just snap open a brew, tear oat the attached yellow card and tlmnr your (increaang) weight around. 
BUKE MAHONEY is currently the director of program planning and control for the Kearfott Systems Div. of General Precisions, Inc. Mike, MarU and their six children have just recently moved from California to ^ 6 West End Ave., Ridge Wood, NJ 07450. FRANK DONLON has been named director of employee publications of Atlantic Richfield Co. and JIM HERNON has been appointed cfircctor of information technology product planning business systems markets diviuon (whatever that means) at Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester, NY. I wonder bow that fits oa his business cards. 
Your prayers are requested for the mother of DANA WEITHERS who passed away Jane 23. 
That's ail the mail, gaaxg. Hope to see you and your lovely wives after the Oklahoma game this JFall. Please drc^ me a line. U yoa gays help, I can continue to write these colorless articles. Those of you with vratts lines or affluence coold give me a call, and you travelers, please drop in. My home is only 20 minutes from downtown St, Louis. Come see the World Scries or tins December see the Hghting Irish play St. Loois 
U. on the boards. That's it. 
"RRST" '53 UW REUNION Some defendeis weren't defended. 
 FULLMER Ohio general agents for Aetna Life & Casualty. our Organization '55 meetings, Mike Kelly al­1S22 LARKDALE DR. H.'VRRY KENNY, mgr. of the Prudential In­ready is thinking ahead to fall. The first meeting 
GLENVIEW, ILL. 60025 

1955 PAUL surance Co.'s northern Indiana agenc>% lias been has been slated tcntati\-ely for Nov. 19. Now that 
OK, gang, tear out that little yellou* card right now and pass it along to me \Wth the latest in­formation on your little segment of the world. Without those cards, and the letters from the wives, this little old Class secretary would be out of business. 
JOHN McCALL (459 Ocampo Dr., Pacific Palisades, Calif. 90272) cliecked in via the yellow card route the last time around. John has ac­cepted a position as professor of economics at the U. of California at Ir\*inc. He received his PhD in 1939 from the U. of Chicago and has been at Rand Corp. in Santa Monica since. John has been awarded two postdoctoral NSF fellow­ships, the first in 1963 and the second recently. Tlie proud Dad of two bo\-s. Scan (10) and Brian (9), John has found time to publish one book and 12 articles. 
Hats off to JOHN WEITHERS, who has been named senior vice-pres. of the Midwest Stock Exchange. (John, what*s this ^*senior" business? Arc they tr>"ing to tell you something?) John joined the Exchange in 1958 as an examiner and most recently was vice-pres. 
DICK RU\VE recently was appointed general sales manager for the Anchor Div. of Stratton & Tersteggc Co., Inc., in Louis\*ilIe. TOM WELLY has been appointed assistant general agent of Carson, Bayer &, Associates, Inc., northwestern transferred to Oak Lawn, a suburb of Chicago, as manager of the Beverly agency- Army Major PAUL REED was named to the commandant's list upon graduation from the US Army Com­mand and General Staff College regular course at Ft- Leavenworth. 
Tlie latest on those on the move: JIM BIGELOW, 19420 Gainsborough, Detroit 48223; Jlil WATERS {who finally got out of Montana!), 882 College Parfcwav. Apt. 102, Rockville, Md. 20850; JIM CONLEY (back from Belgium), 2302 Ohio Blvd., Terre Haute, Ind. 47803; FRED ECKERT, 8915 Bellairc Blvd., Houston 77036 (giving up that marineland jazz for the bright lights of the Big State, Fred, old man?); CHRIS L.ARSEN, 5165 W. 75th St., Shawnee Mission, Kan. 66208; GERRY SHEAH.AN. 2729 Waldor Drive, Baltimore 21234; JOHN McVEY, 1660 Sus­sex Court, Columbus, Ohio 43221; JIM W.ALSH, 116 Morningside. Kansas City, Mo. 64113; P.-\T MOONEY, 420 Ann St., Frankfort, Ky. 40601; and ED KELLY. PO Box 1234. Lafayette, Ind. 47902. Inddcntally, Chris, BOB HUPPE also has moved to Shawnee Mission — 6401 W. 100th Terr. AVhat's the big attraction in Shawnee ^fission, fellows? 
Again, speaking of Chris Larscn, one of the most faithful of the cut-of-towners who tried to schedule Chicago trips so that they could attend 
Johnny Lattner is back in the food and beverage 
business (he's operating the Marina City res­
taurants), wc may have a regular downtown spot 
again-
D.AVE COHEN is getting much good ink these da>*s from Chicago newspapers. He is assoc. direc­tor of the Chicago Conference on Religion and Race and the group's Tri-Faith Emplpymcnt Agency has been very successful in placing' the hard core unemployed. While I'm on the Chi­cago front, congratulations to TOM CAREY who has been elected secretary of the Chicago Club. 
Ran into DON GELS last week at the house­wares show. Don is the number-one paint sales­man in the east, according to informed sources. He looks great and says that he stays in shape keeping tabs on the four kids back home in Phil­adelphia. 
JOHN MAHONEY, I'm waiting for your next epistle on the happenings in the New York area. For those who have again requested the address of P.\UL H.AUHNAR for the purpose of sending help to the "Mizo Citizen's Committee," it is Ave Maria Cottage, Madanryting, Happy Valley, Shillong 7, Assam, India-
A complete report in the next issue of the Class cocktail party following the Purdue game in the Shamrock Room in the basement of the Morris Inn. ^fake it the biggest and the best! 
CLASS OF "56 IN CHICAGO* Aboard the Showboat Sori-S for get-together. 
1956 
EUGENE O'CONNOR COSGROVE & O'CONNOR 
656 ELLICOTT SO. BLDG. 
BUFFALO. N.Y. 14203 

The SHOWBOAT SARI—S was really floating July 10 as the Class of '56 (Chicago area edi­tion) gathered to swap talcs of fortune and fame, etc. In spile of the fact that J.\CK KEGALEY, ANGELO CIAMBRONE, and CARL EIGELS­B.ACH had prerious commitments, and even though PHIL BRADTKE. JOH.N PATRICK DEASY, and TOM ARNOLD found some other diversion after letting us look forward to their presence, dinner co-chairmen JOHN W. COR­BETT and JOSEPH A. "BUD" BECHTOLD got together a real swinging group aboard the old ferr>' boat in the Chicago River. 
BOB S.ALVINO reported his new State Farm office located at 120 S. LaSallc, Room 899, in the Chicago Loop. JOHN J. FANNON is now market mgr. for Champion Papers located at 1 
E. Wacker Dr. in the Loop; John reports that he is quite limited in tickets available for the ND-UCLA cage lid opener this coming season. Joining two sisters, young John D- Fannon was bom this spring. 
JOHN C. ENGLER was most unhappy about a shoulder injury that caused a halt to his budding tennis career in Winnctka; things are well in his business with Merrill Lynch Pierce Fcnner & Smith, Inc., and he recently learned of former roomie J.-VCK GALLAGHER'S sales successes with the Hone>-well Corp. 
On the sober side, JIM REVORD told of attending the funeral in Detroit of JIM WALLACE who died May 11 of cancer; an AcroE., Jim was with Ford Motor Co., and is survived by his widow and five cliildrcn. According to JIM FIN.XEGAN, Rev. MIKE MOO.XEY "made the news" several times in the past months- The JIM RATTIER family hosted PHIL KRAMER, Jim Finncgan, and other families for the privilege of joining Father Mike in offering Mass in the Ryther home — a ver>' moving experience. 
Several weeks after this, the headlines included Father Mike's name from Washington, DC; he "roomed" with the Rev. Ralph Abemathv for ten days in the DC Jail. TO.NY CASTARINA (now a prominent Patent Attorney in DC) of­fered his help to "spring" Father Mike, but the situation wouldn't allow it. 
DON CARLIN, ROBERT C-ARR.ANE and JOHN J. CASEY were named to a committee to draw up articles of incorporation to establish a scholarship fund for sons of deceased classmates who have resided in the Chicago area; many de­tails have to be worked out, and comments from you will be appreciated. Don Carlin has agreed to succeed this reporter as Class secretary for the Chicago Club area; his patent law firm Anderson, Laedcka, Fitch, Even & Tahin is lo­cated at 135 S. LaSalle St. in Chicago. Class Ircas. MARK BURNS announced that he is now working out of the Hammond, Ind. office for IBNL TOM MULLARKEY had a visit with ED WILSON who is with United Engineers and Con­struction in Morris, III. 
Tlie next function of the Chicago area gang will be a family Picnic-Mass at Bcmis Woods at Cook County Forest Prescn-c at II a.m. Sunday. Sept. 15. Co-chairmen will be MAL BURNETT and Jim Finncgan; Fr. Mike Mooncy will serve as celebrant for the family meal. 
And most important (to my wife ^laiy* Ann, and Kevin and Lisa), I announce my appoint­ment as regional mgr. for the Chain Store Age Variety and General Mdse. edition published by Lebhar-Friedman Publishers, Inc. I'll have re­sponsibility for Michigan and Indiana and n major portion of Ohio, Illinois, and Missouri. Hope to sec some of you in those areas. 
According to Jack Kegalcy, MATTHEW O'CONNOR is now in Chicago as a buyer for Carson, PJrie Scott & Co., and lives at 7745 So. Yates. .-V note from BOB WELSH JR informs us that after four girls, Mrs. Welsh presented him with a young son in May; Bob lives at 400 E. Fifth Ave- in Gar>-, and is planning on joining the *56 gang at future dinner gatherings in Chi-c:agD. Kevin P. Manion '81 made the final pair of putouts from his first-base position to end the LaGrange Park Little League season as champions of the American League Div. (will Jake Kline he waiting?) 
— JOHN MAN/ON 

•Pictured Front, left to right: Robert Carrane, Rev. Mike Mooncy, John Manion, John Engler. Don Carlin, John Fannon, Jim Finncgan. Bud Bechtold and Tom Caplctt- Back row: Charlie Milligan, Bob SaK-ino, Jim Revord, Malcomb W. Burnett, Paul Noland, Mark Bums, Webb Sexton, John Corbettc and John Casey. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1968 

The following document is a revision of the Notre Dame Mumni Associa­tion Constitution approved in 1956. Major changes are establishment of the Alumni Senate, and reorganization of Alumni Board election proce­dures. Please review thoroughly, complete the attached ballot and return it to the Alumni Office by September 25. For further information, see the editorial on page three of this issue of the ALUMNUS. 
ALUMNI CONSTITUTION 
ARTICLE I. NAME AND LOCATION 
The name of this Association shall be the Alumni Association of the Univeraty of Notre Dame du Lac, hereinafter referred to as "the Association." Its prin­cipal office shall be located at the University of Notre Dame du Lac, Notre Dame, Indiana, hereinafter re­ferred to as "the University." 
ARTICLE n . PURPOSES 
The purposes of the Association shall be to promote the interest, influence and welfare of the University of Notre Dame; to foster and continue the moral, spiritual and intellectual ideals it teaches and inspires; to work for the interest and advancement of its members and the establishment of more eflfective relations between them and the University, all in cooperation with the programs of the University in order to achieve maximum mutual objectives. 
ARTICLE m . MEMBERSHIP 
SECTIGN 1. The Association shall consist of Active, Honorary, and Associate members. 
SECTION 2. The Active membership shall consist of the following: 
(a)
 All holders of graduate and imdergraduate degrees conferred by the University. 

(b)
 Former matriculates whose class shall have been graduated and who, upon application to and approval by the Board of Directors, shall be votcxi to membership by the Board. 


SECTION 3. The Honorary membership shall consist of the following: 
(a) All who recdve from the University a degree Honoris Causa. 
(b) Those friends and benefactors of the Unhrer­aty whose services the Alumni Association may deare to recognize and who shall be nota­inated and elected by the Board of Directois. 
SECTION 4. Associate membership shall conast of such members of the faculty and administration of the University not otherwise eligible to membership, who may be ntnoinated and dected to membership by the Board ol Directors. 
SEcnoN 5. The voting power of the Association shall be vested solely in the Active membership, and cmly Active members shall be eligible to serve as members of the Senate and Board of Directors or as officers of the Association. 
ARTICLE IV. BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
SECTION 1. The governance of the Association shall be vested in the Board of Directors, hereinafter referred to as the Board. The Board shall be responable for the-entire management and control of the Association, including the fonnulation of its policies and supo^ vision of its prognuns. 
SECTION 2. The Board shall ORisist ci sixteen (16) members, fifteen (15) <d whran shall be elected for terms of three (3) years each as herein set fcurth. The retiring Preadent of the Assodation shall become an ex-offido member of the Board for one (1) year following his pteadtiacy. 
SECTION 3. For the purpose of decting members of the Board from all sections of the country, the United States shall be divided into fifteen (15) regicHis as determined by the Board, the location, size and boun­dziries oi such r^ioos to be subject to revison by the Board from time to time. 
SECTION 4. Five (3) Directors shall be dected each year, one (1) firom each of five (5) different regions, in such manner that one (1) Director will be elected from each of the fifteen (13) re^ons over a three (3) year period. The r^ons from which Directors will be chosoi in the first three (3) elections shaU be de­termined by the Board, the r^ions from which nom­inees are selected thereafter to follow in such order that Directors bom each r^on are elected every three (3) years. Until the annual election when the number of Directors whose terms expire will equal the number newly elected, the membership of the Board, although less than sixteen (16), shall consist of all duly seated Directors with unexpired terms. 
SECTION 5. The ncnnination and election of members of the Board shall be conducted in the following manner: 
(a)
 The Board shall each year after its first meet­ing send out a preliminary nominating form to Club Presidents, Alumni Senators, Class Sec­retaries, Foundation City Chairmen, and for­mer members of the Alumni Board. In addi­tion, at-laige preliminary ncmiinations shall be accepted from the active membership. 

(b)
 At the first Board meeting of the year, the President of the Association shall appoint two 

(2) nominating conunittees (tf three (3) Board monbers' each, with separate Chairmen. These committees shall study the names submitted and from them select separate slates of five (5) names each to be presented to the Board for approval at its fall meeting. The Board com­mittees shall give attention to class year, and buaness or professicmal occupation, college affiliation and location withm the regions stipulated. 

(c)
 The separate slates so selected, but not so in­dicated, arranged aljdiabedcally, with a bio­graphical sketch and picture of the nominees shall, after consent of the nominees is obtained, be mailed to all Active members of the Asso­dation with a ballot on or about December 1 oi each year, with instructions for return thereof on or about January 10. The nomi­nee within each r^on receiving the greater number of votes shall be elected. 


SECTION 6. The number of members of the Board and the number of regions which they lepreseat may be increased or decreased from time to time by the affinnative vote of the Board. 
SECTION 7. The Board shall hold three (3) meetings each year—^in the winter, in the spring, and in the falL Additional meetings may be called by the Pred­dent or Secretary or by any five (3) members of the Board. Written notice of each meeting shall be given at least two (2) weeks prior to the scheduled date ibaeot, but such notice may be waived. 
SECTION 8. Unless otherwise determined by the Board, each member of the Board shall have the fcdiowing additional duties: 
(a) To meet with members of the Ahmmi Senate 
in his i^o n once each year at such times as may be designated by die Board. 
(b)
 At least cmce each year to attend a meeting of as many local Alumni Clubs within his Rgkn as it is practical to visit. 

(c)
 To investigate applications for membeiship <tf persons within his r^on and report to the Board thereon. 

(d)
 To inves^gate ^iplications for new local Alumni CUvit Charters within his r^on and iqiort to the Board thereon. 


SECTION 9. In case of the death or reagnarioo ci a Director, the Board shall appoint the unsuccessful candidate whose name appeared on the same ballot for Rgiooal dection with the deceased or retired Director. He shall serve for the remainder of the uneiquced term, provided he then resides in the r^ion stipulated, and is willbg to serve. Should he be unable to serve, for any reason, the Board shall a^qxxnt an Active member within the same r^on to serve out die remainder trf the term. 
ARTICLE V. THE SENATE 
SECTION 1. There shall be an Alumni Senate, the primaiy functions of which wiU be to provide a forum <d ofunion to hdp guide the Alumni Board, to provide an additional medium of communication and infor­mation legaiding Notre Dame affairs amoi^ the Univeraty, the Board, and individual Alumni, and to cany out such other specific programs as may be as­aipoed by die Board. 
&cnoN 2. The Alumni Senate shaU represent the entire menobership and shall be consultative rather than kgislative in nature. The number, time, places and purposes of its meetings, as well as the sdection and duties of its members shall be such as the Board shaQ,firam time to time, determine. 
ARTICLE VL OFFICERS 
Officers oi die Aswdation shall be elected by the Board at iti fall Board meeting. 
The Pieadent of the Assodatxm shall serve as Honorary Rreadent for the year following the expira­ticm of his T^iular Board term. During the year of his HcHKxary tenure, he shall serve as presiding officer of the Alumni Senate. 
The Board shaU elect from its members a President, a Vice-Fktadent for Club Activities, a Vice-President for Clas Activities and a Vice-President for Public Rela­tions and Devdfqnnent. The r^ularly dected Presdent shall be die holder (tf a degree bom die University. 
The Board Aa!& also elect die Alumni Secretary who shall be tx-idBdo Secretary of the Board and of the Senate. Memben of the Board shaU not be digiUe ior die office of Almnni Secntaiy. 
ARTICLE Vn. DUTIES OF OFnCERS and the OMI Seuetiria' Coafcwnce. Heki 
The President shall preside at all meetings of the Board. He shall represent the Board and the Assodaticm on such occasions as invitation and opportunity permit, and in general liaiscm between the University and other organizations of ajEBliated interest or activity. He shall be the authorized spokesman for the Board upon mat­ters specifically approved by resolution of the Board. He shall appcnnt the Standing Committees of the Board and recdve thdr lepcMrts. He is ex-<^cio Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board. 
The Vice-President for Club Activities shall perform the Presidents duties in the event ot absence or disability of the President. He shall also be ex-o£Bcio Chairman of the CcHnmittee for Club Activities. 
The Vice-President- for Class Activities shall act as President in the absence <»• disability of the President and Vice-Preadent for Club Activities. He shall be ex-o£5cio Chairman of the CtHumittee for Class Activities. 
The Vice-President for Public Relations and Devd­opment shall act as President in the absence or disability of the President and the other Vice-Presidents. He shall be ex-offido Chairman of the Committee for Public RelaticMjs and Devdopment 
The Alumiu Secretary is the only salaried officer of the Associati(Mi. He is director ot the Alumni Office. He is responsible for a stafif adequate to carry out the pro­grams of the Assodation. He is elected by the Board but is also on the payroll oi the University, as are his asastants. He has charge of maintaining Alumni records. He is a member of the Editorial Committee for the NontE DAUB ALUMNUS and INSIGHT: Notre Dame. He is the perscm re^xnsible for the Annual Alumiu Fund and its int^;ration with the Foundation pro­gram. He is responsible for the planning of Class Reunions, Universal Notre Dame Nights, Universal Notre Dame Communion Days, meetings of the Senate for adequate nuiliqcflqunmcBt »»««t stiff to ****»'*** aB mailing of the Aaodation, indndii^ baOols. lie iiie­iyomihle for liaina pragnm with die Uahcniljr audi as tidwtifistnintiaii, placeincn^ nlmhMnnvfaculty and undergraduate cultivadaa. He a reqwiaHe for die minutes of Bond wad Senate meetings, ai trell ai any Assodatiao meetings. He is die Aswrfation and Uni­versity repRMsnlative to the Amorican Ahiinni Ononril, and infitequent meetings and coiiventioos of Afanniii-Univerdty intCRfL 
ARTICLE Vm . LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS 
There diaO be a Club Charter containing such pro-, vitions for the fulfillment ai die pmpoKt of the Asnda-J tion on the local levd, as may be prescribed by the Board. 
Any group of Notre Dune Ahimni, in a geogn^iliical area not leiacwnted by a duly diartered Notre Dame Club, may petition ibe Board dmw^ die Ahmm Office for a Chd> Charter. After investigation by die appropriate Board ineiulici' repnienting the rq;ian i^erein the group it located, and upon aocqMance of the provisions of the Club Ghaiter, the groiqi shall be recognized as a bonafide Notre Dame Alumni Cbdi. All local dubs now active shall be contidercd hnnmR^ Notre Dame Alumni Chifat upon adoption of die pro­visions <rf die dub Charter. 
Upon violation trf any of the terms of die Charter, the Board of Directon may revoke die Chazter and dia­sdtn the Chdi. 
No group may adopt the name ot die UniveiBty of Notre Dame Alumni Qub at any community unka granted a Charter by die Board. 
In areas where a Chib ensts but where it may seem advisaUe to create smaller units widiin the eadstiiig Qub area, the group interested in such a smaller miit may petition the Board for a Club Charter as though it were a new Club. If such a petition is accompanied by die approval of the existing Club, CH- such approval is indi­cated separately, the Board will then act on the peddon. 
BALLOT Constifuta'onal Revision of the ALUAtNl ASSOCIATION UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE OAAItE  
QO  FOR the obove Constitution, with its revisions.  AGAINST the above ConsHhrtion (reiedion ofwill simply result in status quo).   the ConsHtution  
Nome.  
Address  
City„.. .  . aran.  .Zip Code.  

ARTICLE IX. CLASS ORGANIZATION 
Each graduating Class of the Univeraty shall be added to the roster of the Alumni Association. 
Individual alumni, who feel a closer affiliadon with another Class than that with which they lecmed thdr d^ree, may, by application to the Alumni 0£Bce, be re­listed with the Class of their choice, for Class activities. 
Class reunicms every fifth year shall continue to be held at the University in Jime following graduaticm. All classes shall at each reunion elect a slate of aSBceis con­nsting of a president, a secretary, a treasurer and such number of r^onal vice-presidents as may be dearable. Officers of the graduating Senior Class shall remain ex­offido as Class Officers until thefirst reunion. 
ARTICLE X. FINANCES 
The budget of the Assodation, prepared by the Board of Directors to implement its program for the year, upon approval by the University, shall become a part of the dqiartmental budgets of the University. 
There shall be no dues or subscription charged any alunmus by the Assodation. A member shall be consid­ered "in good standing" when he has made a contribu­tion to the preceding or current Aimual Alumni Fund, in any amount 
The Association, nationally, and through individual Clubs and Classes, shall cooperate in the development of Alumni partidpation in the Aimual Alunmi Fund, and in the programs of the Notre Dame Foundation. 
ARTICLE XL CCMIMITTCES OF IHE BOARD 
The Baud of Diiecton <rf die Alumni Association shall maintain die following Standing Ccnnmittees: ExBCudve; Local Chib Activities; Class Activities; Con­tinuing Education; Student Affairs; Athletics; Admis­aons; Rd^ion and Citizenship; Placement; Budget; Academic A£Eairs; Public Rdations and Development; Nominatians; and Faculty Rdations. 
Special comnuttees may be af^xMnted by the Presi­dent of die Association for special projects, either mem­bers of the Board or qualified non-Board members to be dig^Ue for |dacement thereon. 
ARTICLE Xn. BY-LAWS 
By-Laws not incraisistait with this constitutic»i embodying additional proviacms lor the governing of die Association and for the purpose of carrying out all pmvinons of this constituticm may be adc^ted and amended firam time to time by the affirmative vote of two-diirds of die members of the Board of Directors. 
ARTICLE Xm . AMENEMIENTS 
Amendments to this omstitution may be jKoposed: 
SscnoN 1. By petition ngned by at least ten (10) active members in good standing and filed with the Alumni Secretary, or. 
SECTION 2. By a lesoluticn of die Board of Directors filed with dw Alumni Secretary. 
Such amendments shall thereupcm be printed in the maganne of the Association, <H- similarly circulated, and voted upon. 
Amendments to this constitution shall becrane effec­tive only by an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the total vote cast oo the question. 
BUSINESS REPLY MAIL 
FIRST CLASS PERMIT NO. 4 NOntEDAUE. INDIANA 

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Notr* DMM, iMikaKi 46556 
Retain Ballot by Scptamber 2S. 1968 
1957 
GEORGE W. GROBLE 
111 WEST WASHINGTON ST. CHICAGO, ILL. €0602 

Due to a summer vacation, I will apologize at this time for a meager column. Apparently most of the Class took a vacation this summer as well because the news has been sparse. 
JULES AUGSDORFER has reported in from Linden, NJ and advises that East Coast members of the Class have set Sept. 7 at Van Saun Park m Paramus, NJ for their second annual picnic. Wc_ arc anxious to hear how the fathers fare in their annual touch football game with the kids, Jules further reports that DICK GALLE and his wife Adcic are expecting No. 2 in July. Also, MIKE GLYNN and wife Lee are expecting in September. 
Received a very nice letter from JACK SOUCY, now living in Littleton, Colo. Jack is presently with the US Public Health Service and will enter practice in internal medicine with the St. Charles Clinic in St. Charles, Mo., just outside St. Louis. Jack reports a very interesting and enjoyable visit with GENE HEDRICK IN Wapiti, Wy. Gino is now teaching school there and is also busy raising a family of five as well as getting his sliarc of hunting elk, deer, bear and moose. It is a fantastic setting in the Wapiti River Valley and a place many of us would dream about. 
Jack ran into DEAN STUDER on one of his trips to Billings and Dean reports that he is now operating a construction company and has five girls in his family with No. 6 due. Both Dean and Gino promise to make the Class Reunion next time. Other members of our Class whom Jack has contacted lately arc BILL BRAUN, recently married, and a radiologist in Wichita, Kans. JIM WALSH is also specializing in radiol­ogy and is finishing his last year of residency at the University of Colorado. Jim and his wife Connie have three. 
Another radiologist is MARSHALL CATAN­ZARO who is entering the Air Force this fall for a two-year hitch and expects to be stationed near Biloxi. BOB M.MER is entering private practice, specializing in pathology in Twin Falls, Idaho. DON SCHR-XNDT is specializing in urolog>- and practicing in Englcwood, Col., out­side of Denver. TOM NICKNISH is scheduled to leave the Air Force this summer and he plans to enter private practice tn Iowa City. And another urologist, MANNY RIVAS, hosted Jack to a dinner at his home in February in New Orleans. I certainly could use more letters like Jack's. 
Congratulations to BILL GERARD in his association with the Milwaukee firm of Shea, Hoyt, Greene, Randall & Meissner. Until recently Bill was with the US Justice dept. 
JOE REICH recently has been named vicc­prcs. of Lizzie Wass in Colorado Springs, Colo. JOHN HANNIGAN has been named manager of the controls div. of Texas Instruments in Elizabeth, South Australia. JOEL R. LIVINGSTON has been appointed research associalie in the Enjay Chemical Lab or Esso Research and Engineering Co. BOB SCANNELL, assoc. prof, at Pcnn U., has been named chairman of the University Senate. Congratulations to TERENCE CROWLEY on his receipt of a PhD from Rutgers. Terry recently advised me that he has taken a post with the U. of Illinois, in Champaign, where he is heading up one of the university's libraries. Terry also advised that he recently had lunch with BOB HAVERKAMP who is a dean at the YMCA College. Terry also had dinner with JERRY HORNBECK and SKIP JOHNSON in Eranston, 
III. 
 ran into JIM MORSE in Chicago recently and Jim was negotiating pro football contracts for several of the Chicago Bear rookies. Jim also handled contract negotiations with other pro teams for some of the leading draft choices. Jim will be the MC at the Chicago Notre Dame Club Golf Outing in August. 
PAUL HORNUNG has come on well on Chicago 
T.V. where he is handling sports telecasting. We arc looking forward to seeing all at the Illinois game in October. Lct*5 all try to make the cocktail party after the game. It will be announced over the PA as to location. 
Please use the yellow information card in this issue to help the column. 
1958 
ARTHUR L. ROULE, JR. 
102 "I" ST. LAPORTE. IND. 46350 
This is the last issue before fall, so let tis take this opportunity to remind you of the annual after<game reunion, which is scheduled this year 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1W8 

for Sept. 28 at the Morris Inn following the Purdue game. 
Our sympathy Is extended to JACQUE R. HUBER and PETER M, BRENNAN, both of whose mothers passed away earlier this year. 
SAMUEL A. LITZE.\BERGER was married June 22 and is presently residing in Durham, Pa. He has been practicing law in Bucks County, Pa., since 1962. Sam is a graduate of Dickinson School of La^v*. 
FRANK W. LEAHY JR is regional rep. for the Dreyfus Sales Corp. and has offices in San Francisco. The Lcahys, however, reside at 6996 NE Lowell St., West Linn, Ore. 97068. The Leahys have four children, three boys and a ^1 . 
Rev. DON DUEWEKE was recently appointed to the faculty of St. Paul Seminary, 2555 Wteneke Rd., Saginaw, Mich., as counsellor and instructor of English literature. The seminary is a college preparatory secondary school. RICHARD L. SIN­NOT has been named \-icc-pres. in charge of marketing of the Beverly Bank. Chicago. 
Dr. RAYMOND L. SCHMITT wiU join the faculty of Illinois State U. in September as an assoc. prof, of sociology-anthropology. He has been on the faculty of Eastern Michigan U. since 1965. JAMES M. McGUIRE has been appointed operations mgr. of Mobil Chemical plastics div. packaging plant. 
Capt. WILFRED J. DeCANIO is a navigator with the C-I41 Starlifter aircreu-s from Norton AFB, Calif. He recently took part in a joint Air Force-Army simulated combat airdrop exercise at Ft. Riley, Kans., the largest airdrop using jet aircraft in military airlift command history. 
THOM.AS E. LYNCH JR has joined Hedbcrg & Gordon, Inc., to assist in marketing their in­vestment advisory services. JOHN VEACHAZONE has taken over the management of the Mont­gomery Ward store in Bloomington, HI. WIL­LIAM BUSCEMI will join the faculty of Witten­berg U. as an asst. prof, of political science in September. Dr. JA.\!ES L. McDONALD has been promoted to assoc. prof, of English at the U. of Detroit. 
Among some of the news items received in the mail just prior to our lOth-year Reunion were tlie following: 
JOHN MATTHEWS (10726 Orange Grove Ave. no. 17, Whitticr, Calif. 90601) is with pubUc relations for the Getty Oil Co. JERRY KRAUSE is with .\rmy Intelligence in Heidelberg, Ger­many. THOM.\S J. CROZIER JR (60 Hillcrcst Dr., Rockville, Conn.) is a claims analyst vnth Aetna at the home office in Hartford. RICH.ARD 
C. MEYER and FRANK J. LENN.ARTZ were on duty with the Marines in Vietnam, as was DEN­NY F. dWLELIO with the Air Force. JOSEPH 
R. CHERNEY received a PhD in applied science June 9 at the U. of Delaware. The Chcmcys have four children and reside at 14 Mitchell Circle, Newark, Del. LARRY PELTON (5 Haw-Icy Dr., RD no. 1, Ballston Lake, NY) recently left the Nav>' after 10 years and took a position with General Electric in Schenectady. W.ALTER SCHNEBLE (4 Holly St., Hingham, Mass.) is selling laboratory products for Coming Glass Works in New England, is married and has a daughter. 
ALLEN E. PIN.XDO is with IBM as a mar­keting representative in New York and has three children (170-20 130tli Ave., Jamaica, NY I143»). JOHN P. HRIB.AR is now residing with his wife and two children at 1210 Paddock Dr., Palatine, HI. 60067. JAMES C. ESCH MD is at Naval Hosp. in Balboa Park, Calif., having completed a four-and-onc-half-year orthopedic residency in Chicago, and Capt. P.ATRICK M. FLANA­GAN is stationed at NcUis AF Base and living at 73 McCarran Blvd., Las Vegas, Nev. 89110. 
JOSEPH P. MULUGAN ADMISSIONS OFFICE 
1959 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 
Reunion! That's the word! We hope to sec many of the Class in O'Shaughncssy after the Purdue game. If you can't make it then, the Class will have a dinner in Philadelphia on the evening be­fore the Navj- game. For details and reservations call or write LARRY WENTZ, Kindt, Kaye and Wcntz, 303 Bourse BIdg., Philadelphia 19106, phone: 215-WA-2-4W9. 
Larry has also volunteered to arrange accom­modations and rumor has it that he might pick up the tab for the dinner to celebrate child no. 7, Hope Marian, bom July 9. And finally, JIM COONEY, JOHN THURIN, BOB HASSENGER and I have begun preparations for ike Reunion next June. And we're countins on yoo to be here. 

GREG DEVERS was on Campus for fmnmer scbocd, studyins physics, giving advice and trytns to decide whether to go with IBM or MtxnU, Lynch. He %iras headed for Eorope and is hopias to find SAMMY CAHILL (who is 'roond-the­workUi^ it). Greg was on the West Coast before summer school and stayed mth the BILL Mc-CULLOUGHS, who are celebraHng the birth of Christine Downs June 21. 
Greg also saw DAN FERRONE Ceaa stiU be seen nationally via TV commercials) and JOHN LEAHY. John told Greg a sttange tale of how he had been run over by his own car! Greg (when be is hame at 3060 Edwin Avenue, Ft. Lee, NJ) occa^onally sees LARRY MeGOVERN who is sdU a legal aide for Timt'laft, 
The flawing anonymous letter %iras received at ND last month and we are seeking assistance in determining its authorship. The only clue we have is a Boston postmark: 
"As you may remember, JOHN BELL.MRS a few yean ago achieved wealth and notoriety by the publication of a scandalous book of 'hnmor.' Unfortunately, lus head was qmte turned by tlus success and he gave himself up to a life of plea­sure and vanity. In a short time he had ncariy exhausted his small store of money and &riencb and was, in every sense of the phrase^ 'at the bottom of the barrel.* 
**For a time he lived in a cheap waterfront boarding house in Bristol, England, consorting with dope smugglers, gun-runners, Irish poets and the like. At length he seems to have become, however innocently, involved with the terrorist Welsh Liberation Army and at the insistence of Her Majesty's government he was finally placed aboard a collier bound for the States, with in­structions ne\-ermore to besmirch the soil of the United Kingdom with his wretched footprint. 
**When he arrived here in Boston he utras in a intiable state indeed. Hts step Vfzs light and fui^ tive and he was given to darting rapid gl^u^^^^ o%*er his shoulder every half minute or so. He also muttered constantly and had a pronounced ner­vous tic. With the help of a few meager royalties, he u'as able to take a bed-sitting-room In a dingy hotel for men near the Back Bay station. But, although he was often hungry, he seemed unable to write. Most mornings, after rising, he would spend an hour or two rolling about on the fioor tryii^ to discover, he said, whether his spine had warped during the night. 
"The rest of the day might be spent in fruitless attempts to beg pieces of styrofoam from* florists and camera shops. I believe he had some vague idea of building a raft and making *a new start* somewhere in the Lesser Antilles. (Of course this came to nothing.) In the evening he was some­times seen singing for bis supper in Irish bars, a measure whose dcspcratencss will be apparent to anyone who has ever visited an Irish bar in this city. 
^'Fortunately for BcIIairs, he was at this time dIsco\'ercd and taken - in hand by his old friend and cbssmatc, CHARLES BOWEN (an excep­tional man in every way). With a delicate combina­tion of firmness, tact and charity, he managed to restore to Bellairs not only a measure of self-confidence but also a decent sense of his duty to himself and to hb state in life. 
"Under his guidance, the errant author has returned to decent society and sober punuits and now devotes his time to acts of piety and virtue; rather than to vice and dissipation. His talent, too, has been dedicated anew, and I am pleased to. report that his prose style has achie%-ed a level of purity that could scarcely have been dreamed of. in the old days. He is presently at work on the sce­nario of a film version of the Baltimore Cate­chism. 
" I want to emphasize that this miracle of re­generation could not have occurred without the kindness, patience, and generosity of Mr. Bowen. That man is surely a modem saint. It is a great credit to your Cbss to number him amons its members. Sincerely, A Friend.*' 
Any ideas? 
JOHN COTTER (JACK) DOLAN finally married, and ts presently serving as public in­formation director of the New Haven, Conn., Board of Education. His bride of June 22 is the former liibtyann Boyd Thompson, a giad of Southern Conn. State Col., and an elementary teacher in New Haven. Then- address is 200 Ehn St. (no. 315), West Haven, Conn. 
RONALD E. LaMAR has been appointed mgr. of the Ft. Lauderdale office of Thomson & Mc-Kinnon. He previously managed the investment firm's office in Kenosha, Wis. RUDY HORNISH is now ad^-ertising mgr., information systems, Syl­v-ania Electric Products Inc. PETER J. PETRIE has recently been appointed consumer research mgr. of the North American DIv. of I^IobU Oil Corpus market and research and consumer re­search dept. 

BILL FURY and wife JoAnn stopped by the Campus this summer and I was able to spend a 
3Iiehael Mtaggerty *65 
MOONUGHTING IN MISSOURI 
couple of hours with them. Son Kevin \vas two 
last month. The Furys are li\*ing in Birmingham, 
Mich., and Bill is practidng law in Detroit (part­
ner in Fury, Gio\an and Bosco), completing his 
military obligations on June 25, having "en­
joyed" July '67 and April '68 Detroit riots. 
Bill has seen JOHN TREANOR during the past 

year and more recently xisited with JOHN Fl'l'Z­
P.ATRICK and wife Sue. John is now ass't. prin­
cipal and head basketball coach at Grand Rapids 
(Mich.) Catholic Central. The Fitzpatricks have 
four children. 
The s>-mpathy of the Class is extended to 

CLARENCE HUTCHES (death of his faUier, June 
4) and to BILL CASEY (death of his mother, 
June 15). 
And now, gentlemen, you will find in this issue a >-cllow postcard. Please spend the three minutes (to write) and six cents (for a stamp] to let us know what you arc doing. 
1960 
THOMAS J. O'CONNELt 3350 EVERETT RD. 
LAKE FOREST, ILL. 60045 
In Mcmoriam 
ROBERT F. KENNEDY 
1925-1968 
'*^Vhcrc there is no vision, 
the people perish" 

My apologies. I purposely skipped the issue be­
fore last because of the mcmoriam. I had in­
tended to get the next one in with the above 
mcmoriam but didn't put my best into it, so an­
other blank last issue. Sorry. Onward. Question. 
Do we continue full-column trivia or do we open 
this sm~!I plot to some more serious thoughts and 
comments now and then? N.B.: Received no cor­
respondence since May issue. 
Play Ball! Tlic way I see it after the first two 

games there may not be anyone left to play the 
remainder. Anyhow, after the Northwestern game, 
Oct. 12, we will meet in the Morris Inn — 
Mahogany and Shamrock rooms. Pay as you go. 
No cover. No excuses! 
The Good People: DICK NOWERY CSC June 

'68. HANK FR.•\^VLEY. Young Farmer of the 
Year, DeadwDod, SD. TOM GROJEAN vice-pres., 
finance, Fljing Tiger Line. CLAY SMITH and 
Rev. JOE WADE, voluntary advisors group, In­
dianapolis. MIKE SCHAEFFER. San Diego City 
Councilman. Ken Woodward '57 (if you don't 
know, you're not reading the magazine). 
"PANTS" WALKER. BOB JUCKINESS, RON 
ZLOTNICK have male heirs. 
BOB HORN, after PhD at AVisconsin, is now asst. prof, of English at Holy Cross. In Septem­ber, he will become chairman of the English dept. at St. Norbert Col., Dc Pcre, Wis. "Jean, Bob and Tracy Anne want to get closer to the Packers. LALLY keeps threatening to buy Cecil's and maybe net NANOVIC in a partnership. Is LOUIS EDWARDS a mcmoo' or a myth? He must be out there somewhere. Hi to Pete and a big bouquet to Barb. See you in the fall." 
PLACE THE FACE: DOUG ZILLIOX, 1213 Ravens Ct., out of service in San Jose, having a fine time batching it. He called to fill us in and u-ants to hear from BOB CORSON. TIM RYAN is PR man and broadcaster for the Oakland hockey team. CHUCK S.\WICKI is D & B Dist. Mgr., Columbus, Ohio, after being in NY as Dir. of new business development, along with Priscilla. Anne, Cvnthia, and Chip. "JERRY S.\CHSEL built Milburn. NJ HS to 29-2-1 last year. We should get him back to ND." 
LARRY MILLER, ESSO Standard, PO Box 385, Tripoli, Lib>a, wants shortwave frequencies for ND games. Hams, please write. Family of Barb, Colleen St. John, and Charles have not stopped mo\ing since leaving school. NY '61, Va. *61, Germany '64, Ncbr. '66 (Geology MS) and Texas *67. **No ND clubs here but heading for 'old sod* this summer to placate wife. However, to be libeial and ecumenical, we're going to try the pre^iyterian Scottish salmon, haggis and (natch) scotch. BERNARDI, I still have a book borr*wcd eight years ago." 
JIM McGOWAN and Madeline are in NY where he has just finished Bellevue residency and is now beginning ps>-ch. residency at Albert Ein­stein. Dr. jIM HIRSCHFELD is a pediatrician at the Alaska Native Hospital in Anchorage. "The natives are wonderful people. Also, Alaska is the 
M
ICHAEL HAGGERTY docs not need Geritol, since tired old blood does not seem to be one of his problems. Haggerty looks young, is young (Class of '65) and has to be to keep up %vith the demanding schedule he has mapped out for himself. 
Fulfilling his two-year stint in the service (usually enough to keep any man busy) seems to leave Haggerty with time to bum so he is also spend­ing 40 hours a week banging on a type­writer at the Kansas City Star. 
Actually, both the jobs for the service and the Star involve writing, %vriting and more writing and that is what Mike Haggerty does best. "I worked a full 40-hour week during the last year and a half at ND for the South Bend Trib­une. I was a sports writer, feature writer and night police reporter, be­sides keeping up with my class work." 
When the Aimy grabbed him he was appointed sports editor of the Ft. Leon­ard Wood newspaper, a job title he took with him when he was transferred to Camp McCoy in Wisconsin. 
Now stationed at the Army News 

place for skiing, hunting, fishing, etc " CHUCK EVCES, after PhD in engineering at W. Va., is nou- asst. prof, in the dept. of theoretical and applied mcch. Sue and he have a son Mike, but all are tiring of mountains. 
LADIES CORNER: JACK O'BRIEN'* mom m-forms us he has just received BrfD from St. Louis U. and with new- bride Christine Degra of Dayton will go to Denver to Intern. Mrs. NICK GRAFFEO, Margaret, tvrites, "Nick fin­ished Alabama law school in '64, also in im­ported car business. We have sons Nick and Barry. We saw BEN SIRIANNI recenay. Hope to get to South Bend this year." 
OLDIES: Apologies to JOHN DRESKA and Lurena for the editor's scissors in a recent issue. On a mimeo poop sheet. . ." both are in grad school — Tulane and Loyola, respectively, John on leave from army. They . . . **love New Orleans, especially Mardi Gras, Lake Pontchartrain, which is a short two block walk from our apt. and the fabulous French Quarter." 
From GREG ROGERS. . . "now Dir. of Re­search for US Sen. Peter H. Dominick as well as teaching at U. of Denver grad school. TOM 
Center in Kansas City, he is mainly in­
volved with public relations and his 
end of it involves developing television 
scripts. "My job is to try to come up 
with unusual and interesting TV fare. 
Everyone has seen tanks and Uncle 
Sam wants something different." 
What does "something different" 

mean? "My favorite subject is a combat 
artist stationed in Vietnam. He's just a 
kid, 20 or so, surrounded by the hostil­
ity and savagery peculiar to war. In 
terms of detection by US forces, a cam­
era is out. Too much time would have 
to be spent in the developing lab, yet 
detection is needed. His eyes have been 
trained for yeais to perceive things like 
movement patterns, shadings of color, 
etc. His is a valuable talent. I also show 
the other side of him, the artist's side — 
he sketches hb buddies, life as he views 
it. I feel it's a good departure from 
Th e Big Picture' kind of thing." 
Haggerty also finds time to do fea­tures for the Army Times, the service's national newspaper. 
Why does he also write for the Star? "Besides the financial remuneration in­volved, I think it's beneficial for me to keep my hand in," he says. 
His by-line appears mostly in the 

•Star's sports section. Satchel Paige re­cently came under the pen and right now he's developing features on Jimmy Lynch, the 1966 grid captain at ND, and Mike Garrett, both of the Kansas City Chiefs football team. 
Haggerty is also covering the activi­ties of the KC Spurs soccer team. "The team is currently leading its division, so that makes the assignments all the more enjoyable." 
All this experience should put him in good stead when the Army loosens its grasp on him a little more than a year from now. Haggerty hopes for a job in the PR end of sports. 
With all the experience Mike Hag­gerty has he should be able to com­mand any job he wants, if tired blood doesn't catch up with him first. 
O'TOOLE is an asst. fed. criminal defender in Phoenix, after his degree at Arizona where he met wife Elaine Senini. ED MURPHY (and Janet Dunlop) live in Portland with three. He is affili­ated with Wheelock, Richardson, Nichaus and Baines. JOHN WEGLINSKI and Ann Marie are in Denver with two and Bendix for the Apollo program. 
DENNIS McGOVERN and Colette Mhrie are in Santa Ana where he is an engineering specialist with Douglas. JOHN MEARA and Yvonne arc at Fort Lewis, Wash., where he is an oral sur­geon for the Army. JOHN CIHAK is still single, working as branch mgr., Baiik of America, Spring Valley, Calif. 
TIME OUT: Take it to read INSIGHT, if you care to know about your University. Sooner or later you act out what you really think. "A Chris­tian is one who sees Christ in his fellow man, and is aware of Christ's prcsense in himself," (Dan Doyle, '68). PEACE. 
10AA lAUr JOHN A. DI NARDO 
I TOW LAW J2I HINMAN AVENUE EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 60202 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 19<8 
1961 
WILLIAM HENNEGHAN 
30S56 SCRIVO DR. WARREN, MICH. 48092 
I've heard that DAVE OFFUTT and his wife Tish are living in Marysville, Calif. Dave is practicing law since graduation from U. of Cali­fornia law school, llie Offutts have one child Michael David. Dave passed on some other info on some of our classmates. DICK CICCONE is with Associated Press in Chicago after a tour of duty with the Marines in Vietnam where he won the bravfry medal. JOHN DEMERGASSO grad­uated frpm law school at the U. of California in 19&t- and is practicing in Modesto, Calif, and Is still single. 
DAVE LLOYD is practicing law in Santa Bar­bara, and the Lloyds have one child. PETE HOBERT is in Philadelphia, working in an execu­tive position with GE. He b married and he has several children. MIKE WICH and his wife Marlcne are H\-ing in Holland, Mich., and he is with a bank in an executive position. TOM CEIL and his wife Claire are living in Grand Rapids, Mich., where he is practicing law. Thanks for the info, Dave. 
JEROME WOLFE wrote and told me that his wife gave birth to a daughter Lois Ann last March. JOHN WHITAKER is serving on the permanent board of directors of St. Mark's Church in Kansas City. St. Mark's Church has the first joint Protestant-Roman Catholic con­gregation in the US serving a largely Negro, downtown section of some 15,000 people. 
CHARLIE KELLY wrote and told me that he is married to Jo-Anne Vealc and has two children. 
 JAMES KRAUSER 8301 GARFIELD STREET 
BETHESDA, MARYLAND 20034 
1962 H. 
Again you will find the yellow information card in this issue. Take exactly two minutes and fill this card out and pass is along to me. Rather than pick a specific game for our fall football Class ri'union I would simply ask all members of our Class to meet at the Morris Inn immediately after each home game. If the weather is good the area of the putting green provides enough breathing space for any and all members of our Class. 
Nov. 2 in Philadelphia b the Navy game and affords a cliance for all members of our Class wlio live in the East to congregate at the Ben Franklin Hotel. This has been a real festive week­end in the past and more and more of the same is in order this year. Large parties in the hotel ball­room on both Friday and Saturday nights provide excellent opportunities to renew old acquaint­ances. See you there. 
Only sketchy news this time: MIKE HART 
 HOTOPP 3121 COLONIAL WAY 
CHAMBLEE, GA. 30003 
1963 TOM 
A wonderful time was had by all at the N D Reunion in June. Seems as if the Reunion beer­drtnking record was broken by noon on Saturday!! Sure hope to sec everybody there in 1973! 
FRANK DICELLO is now serving \rith the 1 St Air Cav in Vietnam, and while he*s gone I'll try to fill in with the news you send me or the university alumni office. Serving along with Frank in Vietnam arc many other members of the Class. HAROLD VOGEL writes that he*s flving for Uncle Sam in 'nam. Cpt. R. W. StORMANN JR is in the US Anny Intelligence in Saigon. JOSEPH V. SOISSON is on the Yorktozcn as a pilot, but should be home soon. FRELING SMITH is in *nam for a year, so is Cpt. F. X. MAHAR, due home soon also. JOHN KWIXN is serving as a doctor in Viet­nam. Captains A. DESKO and BILL SMITH arc serving with the Army in the sunny south-cast, reports GENE FAUT from Schaumbury, 111. 
KIRBY B.\YER is on his second tour there, but was home on emergency leave and made the Reunion. GENE BLISH is in Bangkok until May, 1969. Bet all these boys would appreciate a note, cookies, or news about the team during the fall. GEORGE H.J\RDY is working in preventive medicine as a captain. TOM HARVEY is having a "wonderful time" in Vietnam. 
DAVE GRAHAM MD has an open invite out to anyone who wants to visit him in the south­east. THEODORE PINTO and JAMES AN­THONY send their regards from the ND club of Hue and Quang Tri. Some of the Lucky Guys still in the service include ED &IARCATO in a boy and a girl. Charlie received his PhD in physics from Indiana U. and Is working for Ana­lytic Services Inc. in Falls Church, Va. Bfaria and JAKE MOSER arc living in Dallas where Jake is a real estate broker for Moser Co. Tbey have a son and two daughters. 
RICH REDZNAK, after serving 13 months in Vietnam where he was wounded in action, is now asst. principal at Black River Academy in Ver­mont. Rich would like his old roommate DEN­NIS POLLACK to drop him a note. BOB ERASER and BILL PARKER took n trip last spring through the jungles of Guatemala and the Yucatan Peninsula in a Cessna 180. Bob is on a fellowship at U. of California woiUng on his PhD thesis in plasma. Bill is a system cn|^ecr at Autonetics in Anaheim, Calif. 
JACK "SCOOP" SKUPIEN and his wife Rita and their two daughters are living in Oklahoma City, where Scoop is a special agent with the FBI. While Scoop was in Washington he met wth MARTY RONNIA who is working as a TV director for the US Information Service. DAN MITCHELL has been promoted from sales mgr. to executive vice-pres. and general mgr. of KEZY-AM and KEZR-FM radio sUtions in Dis­neyland Hotel in Anaheim, Calif. Dan and his wife Maurine have a home in San Juan Capis­trano. JOHN MANCHON, after leaving the Air Force as a 1st Lieutenant in 1965 is now a chem­ical engineer at Monsanto Co., in Pensacola. John and his wife, former Janet Crane of Lake Charles, La., have a son and a daughter, and when you read this they should have number three. 
has been transferred to Phoenix by Ford. Bfike and wife Dottie are living in Paradise Valley, Ariz. GARY TOWNSEND is now beginning a residency at the Mayo Clinic. DAVE BERTRAND and family now live in Westfield, NJ where Dave commutes to New York working for Haskins and Sells specializing in international taxes. TONY MARRA will soon be practicing law in New York after returning from Vietnam where he was awarded the Bronze Star. CHARLIE S\VITZER is now a pilot for Western Airlines out of Denver. Charlie mentions that he is still enjoying the bachelor life. 
Received a nice letter from ROGER BUCK Avho now makes his home in Edison, NJ. Roger currently is teaching in Perth Amboy and is act­ing as the coordination of an ESEA Title I, Federal Project. JIM BLACK writes of his re­cent marriage to Janet Higgins, SMC '63 and his new address 1 MacArthur Dr., Westmont, NJ. 
By now STEVE GURCHIK has been married to the former Mary Jo Kaufman. Steve is currently engaged in private law practice in Elyria, Ohio. RONALD COMO has been appointed labor re­
Germany (Air Force). JOHN YECKLEY and wife and daughter at Moody AFB, BILL SAN­NEMAN in Korea (hc*s not so lucky), BILL WESTHAUS in Europe on the USS Stimson, and Cpt. ROBERT ROBUCK in Germany. 
Nice letter from JAMES DIXON from Dixon, 
III. reports that GIL SCHIMMOLER and his ivife Kathy and son Jeff visit with DAVE AMES and wife Sheila, SMC '65, also linng in DLcon. Jim passed his bar and he and his wife Judy have two children, one of each. BARNEY YOSTEN lives near the Schimmolers with his wife and son Tad. JOHN McLANE is the sole ND bachelor living in Dixon. Thanks for the note, Jim. 
MIKE FRONING writes that he and his family left for American Samoa in June. PAT WIL> LIAMS missed the Reunion because of Lester Aladdox!! Seriously, Pat was the assistant co­ordinator for the 1968 southern Governor's Con­ference held in Charleston, SC^ June 15-19, and couldn't attend, but from his letter I can tell where his heart was, Pat is working as OH ordinator of special projects for the Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Tourism of South Carolina. 
Pat married Marian Bowman of Orangebury, SC, and has one son Patrick and is e^qKcting a second. FRANK WALLMEYER and his wife Mary and their two children spent several days visiting the Williams recently. The Wallmeyers live in Richmond, Va., and expect their third child in September. JACK DeMARCO and wife Kathy are living in Atlanta where Jack works for Frito Lay, Inc. BILL GORMAN is in his second year with the Peace Corps, and is now in Nepal. Thanks for the letter, Pat, and we agree with you, Notre Dame is Number 1! 
^^KE SQUYRES and wife Marianne had a little girl last October. Mike is stationed at 
TOM BfUSIAL is involved in the going oos at ND. The Mnsials just boi^t a new home in dw country foor miles north of- the campia aad Tom is acting as Director o r the Collegiatr Sem­inar Program. JOHN CHRISTIAN aad hb wife have three children, John, Mcrcditli, and Fn L John is a nce-pres. of Ridianbcm Ei^neeriag Co. in New Brunswick, NJ. He has been ap­pmnted member of the connty indnstrial camm, and is trustee of NJ-ND dob. 
KEN BROWN received a PhD in econoarics at Johns Ifopkitts and is now asst. prof, of economics at Ohio State. THOMAS WARREN, after spend­ing three years in the Navy and %irorkii^ for RCA in compater systems, is now with Anthes-Eastem in Toronto as asst. to vice-pres. gca. jagr, Tom and hb wnfe, the fonncr MaryAnne Ifae­kende of Toronto, have two boys. Tom thinks there should be an N D club in Toronto and if anyone else thinks so, give him a call — 264-2953. 
DAVE THOMAS is teaching freshman Biblic^ Theology at ND and amtinoes to work for Ins doctorate in Theology. Dave and lus wife Karen hai.-e a giri Sarah. DAN McGENNIS and his «dfe Arlene have three dai^ters and are stHl looking for ND material. He is a sales cn^eer for Air Products and Chemicals Inc. of Allentown, Pa. . 
There is a yellow reply card in this issue and I hope you wHl fill it out and dn ^ me a line. I lu^e to see you at sooae of the games this SaSL 
JOHN N. MOKELAND 1961 LAW 2Il'/> E. MAIN ST. OTTUMWA. IOWA SZSOl 
lations siqiervisor for the Bendiz Co. energy con­trols division in South Bend, and the nmrile systems division in Mishawaka. JOHN ROSHECK has been s^>potnted sales office manager oi Bfa­terials Handling Equqmient Co. The company specializes in material handling systems and pro­ocdnns. THEODORE BIANIATIS has been licensed to practice architecture in Mirhigan. MICHAEL DeWALD has become associated with the CPA firm of Sanford, Myers & DeWald as a partner. THOMAS FARLEY has received an MBA from the U. of Akron. Capt. LAWRENCE STOCK has completed a transportation o£Bcer career com'se at the Army Transportation School, Ft. Eustis, Va. ARNOLD ROBBA has joined the staff of the Los Alamos scientific laboratozy to work in the weapons division. 
Hope to see many of yon at the Oklahoma and Navy ] 
lOiCO I AU f PAUL K. KOONEY 
iVO ^ LMVV U.S. COURTHOUSE FOLEY SO. NEW YORK. N.Y. 10007 
US Army Security Agency HQ is Arlington, Va., and says his apartment in Alexandria is apea for alumni visits at any tune! 
PAUL TSCHIRHART reports that in the past year and a half he's been married, "sired" a dani^ter, and graduated from Wayne State U. law school in Detroit. Presently he's preparing for the law board and job banting. MIKE ROTHSTEIN is working as a nuclear engineer with Gulf General in San Diego. He can be reached in Lajolla, Calif. JOE DONOFRIO is working with the Public Health Service in Mobile,' Ala., after graduation frcHn Columbia dental school in June, 1967. He is the proud father of a son, bom in November '67. 
JOE RADFORD just completed a five month stint in the attorney general's office in the Pacific Islands. He's now finishing up his two years in Majuro, Marshall Islands, working with the local conununity action agency and d^trict court personnel. Joe said he knows KEVIN HART is on **hu islands" but hasn't talked with him. Write, Kevin. TERRY ELBERSON has three children now, two boys and a ^1 , and is working in the meat packing business in Defiance, Ohio. LEO McINTYRE was married to Marian Julia Dooling in June, a now tiving in Chicago, where he's working for the Continental lUimus ­National Bank. TOM VECCHIONE'S mother tells us that Tom is doctoring at the LA Connty Hosp., and will be in the Navy after his residency, four years hence. 
Rev. RICHARD POTTHACT CSC is leammg Rutoro, the language of the Uganda sector of East Africa. Father Potthast remembers the Class daily in his prayers. TOM GORDON passed the Missouri Bar and is now with the Army MP corps in Livomo, Italy, where he is provost marshal and a captain. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1968 
Cpt. DAN WERNER recently arrived back in the states alter flying B-52's over Vietnam. He received the Air Medal and Oak I«af Clusters during his tour. Dan and wife Sharon are living at Westover AFB, Mass. along ^%-ith their two children. FRANK VITRO is working for PhD at U. of Iowa. JIM MALLING, wife Nancy and two children are liwng in Orono, Kfinnesota, near Minneapolis, %vherc Jim is working for Gold Medal Flour at General Mills. Nancy says "\a" to Don Ryan. Cpt. MICHAEL LANE is missing in action over Vietnam at the time of this writing. Please pray for his safe and speedy return. 
Some reflections on the Reunion: Wish every­body had been there. All in attendance sure enjoyed s^^'apping lies and histories. BRIAN BOULAC is married with two children, and working on Ara's staff while working toward a PhD. BOB HELLRUXG is running for political office in St. Louis. TOM BISHOP is still working wt h Spanish-Americans from Iiis office in Wash­ington, while attending law scliool at night. 
BILL MORAN is working for tlie OEO in Chicago. FRANK McDONALD is trying to get Eugene elected President by canvassing the southern states. He's splitting his time between NYC and Washington. FRANK MARTORANO is married, has % little girl, and is in his second year at medical col. of Virginia, Riclimond. MIKE CONNOR is married and expecting a baby in August. He's working for Wcstinghousc Atomic Energy Div. in Fittsburgh. LES RENflEY is in law school at U. of Kentucky. BILL V.ASU is a stockbroker with Smitli Barney Si Co. in New York City. 
I have some more cards from Class members that ril put in the next issue of the ALUMNUS. Remember, notlnng will appear in this column unless somebody takes pen to paper or picks up the phone. Sure would like to keep the column as full of news as it's been in tlie past. Until the next time. Go Irish! 
1963 LAW -J^-^-"-^- .^Pyt^AN 
1526 E. CEDAR ST. SOUTH BEND, IND. 46617 
 STEPHENS 1100 CLOVE RD., NO. 5-C 
STATEN ISLAND, NY 10301 
1964 CL4Y 

TOM MOXAH.AN is with Procter and Gamble in the marketing dcpt. of their industrial products div. He and his wife Martha live in St. Louis wth their two cliildren, Michael and Timothy. 
GEORGE NOVAK has been promoted to customer relations mgr. at Lincoln Mercury's Philadelphia District office. He and his wife Michele live in Cherr>- Hill, NJ. 
TOM OSBORN has received his DDS degree from the U. of Michigan Dental School and is now at Walson Army Hosp., Ft. Dix, NJ. DICK GALIHER has graduated from Catholic U. law school. DARWIN STOCK is now a Captain in USAF and stationed at Hopstcn AFB Germany. MICHAEL LUEA graduated from ilic U. of Michigan with a MA in social work. He and his family live in Lansing where he is an ad­ministrative asst. for State of Miclugan social science dept. JACQUES KEMPS is mgr. of back-office operations at Shcarson, Hammill and Co., Newark, NJ. 
JOHN HAMILTON graduated from Harvard Ia%v and is now a Deputy j\ttorney General for California. He lives in Los Angeles. BOB DUNNE spent three years in the Army as an officer and is now on a training program with Goodbody and Co., NYC. STEVE CULLITESE is an asst. supervisor for US G\-psum Co. in Chicago. He is also attending John Marshall law scliool. 
BOB BROUILLARD will ser\-e his internship at the Walter Reed General Hosp. in Washington DC after graduating from the New Jersey Col. of medicine and dentistry. MICHAEL CILETTI has been promoted to 1st Lt. in the USAF. He is an aeronautical engineer at the USAF Academy in Colorado. Capt. JOHN P. KIN'TZ is sta­tioned in England with the Royal Air Force. 
Lt. JOE STINEMAN USN is living in Long Beach, Calif, with his wife Marianne. BILL 
^ TYNAN is a 1st Lt. jn the Marine Corps flying helicopters out of Da Nang, Vietnam. He is married to the former Barbara Micski of Sche­nectady, NY. BILL BELDEN is an industrial sales engineer for Jackson-Baylcy Elec. Co. in Canton, Ohio. He received a MBA last June from Case Western Reserve. 
JIM STENGER received his DDS from U. of Detroit dental school and is a Lt. in USN at Newport, RI. MIKE RIEDER graduated from 
U. of Wisconsin medical school with his MD and is interning at Blodgctt Memorial Hosp., Grand 
KREMK '56 McMAHON '58 SOtON '60 
Congrats 
John J. Carey '52 has been appointed president of the Connell Co., a con­sulting and actuarial firm. He has been with the company and associated com­panies since 1954. 
Dr. Thomas F. Sullivan '52 has been appointed technical director of the organic chemistry division of the New England Nuclear Corp. The division is a new one, created because of com­pany growth. 
Millard T. Battles '55 has been se­lected by the Boeing Company as an Alfred P. Sloan Fellowship recipient for the 1968-69 executive development at MIT. The Sloan Fellows program is a refresher course for a select group of young executives which gives a year of study leading to a master of science degree in management. 

Rapids, Mich. FRANK BUJAN is a sals rep. tor Canteen Corp. in Cliicago. RALPH KENT has received a MS in biostatistics from Harvard and will pursue his PhD in the fall. He is married to the former Kathleen O'Brien. 
D.WE STOUT works for the Buffalo Evenlmt News covering the Supreme Court activities. Pre­viously he Iiad been with Erie Daily Times. In Los Angeles is BILL PFIEFFER who is an attorney for Vocglin, Barton, Harris and Callistcr. He is married to the former Darlecn Dobb of Muskegon, Alicli. and they have one son. 
Lt. MIKE C.\REY is in tlie Adjutant General Corps of the Army .Airborne. Mike graduated from the U. of Pcnn. Law School and passed the NJ bar exam. BOB SCHEFFING graduated from the U. of Arizona law school and is practicing in Phoenix. BILL REUTER was en­gaged in May to &fiss Michelle Lee ^Vliitc. DENNIS HEALY has graduated from the U. of San Francisco law scliool and is now living in Reno, Nev. with his wife .\nne and two sons. Scan and Dennis. PAUL TROST is working on his PhD in geo-cliemistry at Colorado School of Mines. He was married late last year to Judith 
C. Ground and they live in Denver. 
TERRY O'DONNELL received his law degree from Syracuse U., passed the NY bar and is practicing in Gouvernew, NY. He is married to the former Mary Ferryman and they have two sons. BOB PATTERSON is a marketing lep. for IBM and living in Nilcs, Mich. Capt. PETE KOZAK USA recently returned from Vietnam and is stationed at the infantry sijiool. Fort Benning, Ga. DON DUG.AN is living in Scotts­dale, Ariz, and represents BroyhiU Fumitiu^ Industries in the Southwest. He is married to the former Kilty Fitzgerald of Charlotte, NC. 
EUGENE STECY Is interning at Los Angeles General Hos. after gradaating from the U. of Minn, medical school. JIM COGLIANESE grad­uated from Loyola U. (Chicago) dental school with honors. He will continue his edacation for 
j ALUMNI IN THE NEWS 
Dr. George M. Krembs '56 has been appointed senior engineer and ad­vanced technology manager of IBM's Kingston Laborator)-. He will be re­sponsible for the exploration of new graphic, power and large systems. 
John F. McMahon '58 has been named public relations manager for Alcoa in Cleveland. After holding vari­ous positions with Alcoa, including one in South America, he became senior public relations asst. at the facility in Evansville, Ind., from which he was appointed to his new job. 

J. Thomas Solon '60 bos been named supervisor of manufactured housing for the Home Building Products Div. of Owens-Coming Fiberglas Corp. In the new position he will be responsible for sales of products to the prefabricated home, mobile home and recreational vehicle markets. 
another two years specializing in orthodontics. BOB STORK is a Lt. in the Army stationed in Fort Lewis, Wash. He is assigned to the infantry training center. 
lOAA lAlA I THOMAS F. CONNEELV 
I'TtfH LMVV ONE NORTH LAS-ALLE ST. SUITE 701 CHICAGO, ILL. 60603 
The news has been very thin, gang, and I re­spectfully beg you to use the yellow postcard in this Issue to get some material to this boy. Better yet, give it to me in person at the Third Annual Class of *64 Legal Seminar to be held at half-time during the Purdue game. Write to TOM KERN, 1410 Stevens, Indianapolis, Ind. 46227. 
The Communications Award for this Issue goes to JOE McDONALD for contacting ye olde scribe twice. In April Joe sent a postcard bearing his new address (13382 Wake Ave., Santa Ana Calif. 92709) and the news that Chris ("just as pretty as ever") and Patrick Joseph (4/7/67) arc stationed at the Marine Corps Air Station where Joe is doing defense work. Joe called my home July 21 and spoke to my mother who took the message in my absence. Joe ^vas in Chicago attending the Northwestern Criminal Law Seminar. Keep up the communicating, Joe, the material sure comes In handy. 
West Coast Bureau: Reliable sources indicate that JOHN H. LEAHY has been elected president of the Chamber of Commerce In newly in­corporated CarsoQ City, Calif. Congratulations, Commodore! JOE and DOTTIE MYLOTTE wrote to announce the birth of Lisa Feb. 20. "Hiey also expressed the hope that they would be at the Purdue game seminar. How about the rest of you? 
No more news—so. 
The yellow card please use. 
Come when we meef the Purdues 
For a bit ol food and booze. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1968 

1965 
JAMES P. HARNISCH Apt. B 863 E. GRANVILLE RD. 
COLUMBUS, OHIO 43224 

DON ZONE was married in July to Marf Lou Barrett of Syracuse. Needless to say ND men were in abundance. After a Bcnnuda honeymoon, Don returned to begin his fourth year at Buffalo Med. School. LEN WILTBERGER and wife Judy are building both a new home and house in Rf)chcs­tcr where Len is working with Kodak. As of last June the new addition has been Marie Thomas. 
PHIL HALEY and his wife Sue (SMC '66) are the proud parents of a son, John Hardwick, bom last Febr\iary. Phil is in his fourth year at North­western Med. School. PAT FORD has graduated from Colmnbia Law and is working for Shearman and Sterling law firm in NYC until October when a, new life in the Na\-y will begin. Pat writes that BILL MacDONALD is in the Navy; JOHN MacDONALD is at Columbia Business School and BILL CLARK won the 10.000 meter rtm in the National AAU Olympic trials in June. 
TOM HOGAN has graduated from Georgetown Law School. BILL MILES is a sports writer in Anchorage, Alaska, and DENNIS McCARTHY is the public relations director for the Patcrson, NJ News. BILL PREDEBON was married in June 1967 to Mary Ann Montgomery and last March became the father of a baby girl, Nadine Eliza­beth. Bill is working for this PhD in engineering mechanics at Iowa State U. where in Afay he received his MS. 
Since returning from Vietnam in February, 

10AC I AU/ JOHN A. HAUTER 
IT0 3 LA W 1050 INDIANA AVE. 
GLENWOOD. ILL. 60423 ^Vithin the folds of this issue you will find a yellow ALUSINUS reply card, please fee! free to drop a line or two and let us know all. It certainly would be a boon to writing the column if we had better response! We all enjoy reading about fellow classmates^ so Ict*s get on the ball. 
Received a yellow card from the FLAHERTYs a while back. MIKE and Sheila were able to look up the KRUPNICKs in Ft. Laudcralc because of an address listing we had in a previous column. Mike*s sons, Mike jr and Patrick are awaiting tlic birth of a new addition. More than likely congratulations are already in order. Jon Krupnick is also awaiting Baby No. 3 in the early fall. By tlic way, we haven't heard from you in quite some time, Jon. 
Brigid and "TEX" DUTILE have a new ad­dress: 1810 Metzcrott Rd. No. 42, Adelphi, Md. 20783. "Tex" is completing his second year of teaching in the law school at Catholic U. He ahvays did have that professorial image, didn't he? He informs us that a luncheon brought some old friends together for a short time. STEVE WEIDNER (probably father of No. 2, by now) and LARRY SHINNICK (now with the US 
10A7 I AUf JAMES C. HEINHOLD ITQ / LMYV 80] ODDFELO^VS BLDG. SOUTH BEND, IND. 46601 
Since our last meeting JIM MOLLISON and Gcrmainc Banacki were married in South Bend on July 19. They honeymooned in San Fran­cisco before settling in Ft. Knox where Jim is stationed. Your letters of congratulations will rcacli him at: Finance & Accounting, 1035 Vf. Vine St., Radcliffe, Ky. 40160. 
STEVE »'TRICK KNEE" LAMANTIA was in Jiro's wedding party and he stopped by before leaving tou'n. His next stop was best man for GARY KAUP's wedding in Wilmington Aug. 2. Flo and I had hoped to make Gary's tvedding since \\-c were passing nearby on our way to NY, but commitments there didn't leave us time to stop over. Steve maintains that he is well satisfied with his 6rm in Buffalo and has no intention of joining the foreign law firm of Johnson, Rusk & Westmoreland despite their aggressive recruitment program. 
Capt. JOHN HARGROVE USMC reports that he has graduated from the Justice school in New­port and he and Janie are now in San Diego. They, by the way, are expecting their first grunt, er, child Oct. 21. Knouing Hargrove, it wll be on time! 
Capt. DICK MUENCH and Carol were in the Bend for the christening of the KONOPAs* latest addition, Alary Catherine, bom May 26. Dick lias also graduated from the Justice school and 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1968 
DICK lARKIN has been working for the First National Bank of Chicago. Dick was married in July to Mary Lou Blecg (SMC '67). Abo married in July was ROBERTO POMA. Roberto and wife Lucia Raskosky of Nicaragua honcfmoooed ia Europe. He is now working for an MBA at Stan­ford U. 1st Lt. STEPHEN STUMPfl and wife Rence arc the proud parents of their second son, Michael Stephen, bom in May. Steve is stationed at Wright-F^ttcrson AFB working in dengn anal­ysb in the aeronautical systems divinon. 
JIM GRIMES received his master's degree from the Sloan School of MIT and is now dept. head of finishing at Coming Glass Works in Danville, Va. Jim and wife Nancee have two children now. 
TOM NUMAINVILLE was discharged from tiie Army in April and is now working for his BIBA at Berkeley. As of September Lt. PHIL DUR wiU be transferred to Washington, DC from Gaeta* Italy, where he has spent a great two-year tomr. Lt. PHIL FLUSCHE was presented with the Air Afcdal at Korat Royal Thai AFB, Thailand, and Capt. NEWTON LESH was decorated witk the Bronze Star Medal during ceremonies at Ab­erdeen Proving Ground for outstanding meriton­ous scn.'ice in combat in Vietnam. 
TOM NORMAN has been promoted to capt ^ in the Army and Ist Lt. GIL DELANEY is serving at Cam Ranh Bay AFB. 
STEVE WERNER has received his MD from Jefferson Med. School and is now interning at Henry Ford Ho5p. in Detroit. MIK£ BURKE, DAVID BURNS and HOWARD VOIGT have 
Attorney's Office in DC) were there. Joining the list of notables was MIKE FARRAR, the old Arab, now with the US Dept. of Justice. What happened to Mike anyway? No one seems to know much about those incognito Farrars—come on Jackie, use tlie card and tell us what's keeping you both busy these da>-s. 
Rumor has it that JOHN LUCIDO and Carol with baby Da\^d have a new home (New Jersey). John, as you may remember, is with Cravath, Swaine and Moore. Our hero, DAVE CON­STANTINO, called "Tex" from Quantico, Va. after returning from a stint in Vietnam. How arc things out there, Dave? Many would like to hear your remarks on that now-so-touchy subject. 
I have become quite involved in the Montessori program. For those of you unfamiliar with it, it is a prc-school education program interested in de­veloping a child^s au*arencss at critically sensitive periods in his development. Two of my sons, John and Bradley, arc now in the school and doing remarkably well. Tlicy are exposed to many stimulating experiences as well as a familiar­ity with the new math. Let me tell you, old daddy has some brushing up to do. 
Well, friends. let's keep those cards and letters comin* right in there. Janet and I read each and e\'cry one and love them all. 
is now stationed at El Toro Air Base in California. The Muenchs, by time of publication, will also have celebrated the birth of their second baby. 
In July, the Hon. F. Kenneth Dcmpsey a|H pointed Bob Konopa as judge pro tem oi the St. Joseph County Superior Court. Judgc-for-a-day Konopa acquitted himself very well and became the first member of our Class to ascend, no matter how temporarily, the Bench. 
Barb and ART S^VIRTZ were also in town for the christening and Art is happy practicing in Flint, Mich., although he seems to be de%-eloping a sideline by dabbling in real estate. They too are expecting their second child—sometime in early 1969. 
Nancy and JIM OLSON have returned to South Bend from a trip to Iowa and parts west. Jim inter\'icwcd in Omaha and Denver looking ahead to the end of his clerkship. Jim is now senior clerk to Judge Grant. 
Rosemary and PAUL MEYER have moved from Chicago and their new address is 4232 Siutland Rd.. Apt. 202. Suitland, Md. 20023. Apparently FR.'WK VERTER.^NO's new address is some­where in Korea and I would appreciate it if someone could fill me in on Frank's latest move. 
Ens. JACK "SNOOPY" COUCH also stopped in town after finishing Na\'al gunnery school in Norfolk. Tlie local alumni gathered to bid him good luck. Tlic Snooper's assigned to a Destroy­er as a Naval gunfire spotter and will patrol be­been awarded juris doctor degrees from the tJ. of 
Cincbmati. PASQUALE SEPULVERES I M xe-. 
eeived tus MBA' firam Fairldgli DifHa w 17. 
JOHN BELLAMY was awwded tiK Kale Ncal 

Kinley Mcmoral FcUomlup at tbc coBcge 6t KM and appBed arts at the U. of IBiwMi. The fcBpy­ship committee described John as "a mamaU ­tional figan. sculptor wbose, workt wkam gicat. .knovdedse aad' teclmical dkil,: wiUi mm •^"»=^-* deaeat-- of eMotioaal iatesstr. l|dM~. ii <jmmmai 
and cawitiny." »•• 
HUGH CHARLES McDONALD ncani im master's in microlnolosy frooa Plena Sute bit Maidi and Ist Lt. CSARY FRANC was gm a dM USAF GommendatioD Medal for "ncritorioiis achievement at the Aerospace Anifio-miiial Scfw vice" and was dted for "ha oatstaaifing profes­wma] skin, knowledge and b^denhip." JOUS CLANCY has rrceived hh master's from the V. of Iowa in anatomy and BOB SFORL hyndsF ing as a- brofcer^e coasoltant at the New Oi^ leans brokerage office of Connecticnt General life Insorance. 1st Lt. MIKE BRADLEY an^ ^Ist Lt. ROY FUJINAKA are serving - in' Vktnaai. S£ke is at Tan Son' Nfaat AFB and Saf ii aft Pha Cat AFB. 
As is probably apparent, all Class cohmtm bzve been shortened in accon&mce mlh an' effort' to • reduce the size of each individttal ALUitmrs .to increase the number of, publications. Thus I need more information now to keep oor cohmm fuD, so; fin out the enclosed yellow cards and send •• them in to me. 
1966 
MCHAKD ANGELOrn 
SGW SOUTH am i AVE., AFr.,ao3 
JUSncE, ILL. G0<» 

IQAA lAUr FKANK GREGOKY 
•TOO IMW 7«B KEYSTONE LANE FOKESTVnXE. BIO. 2003 This hsac marks a lugfaly significant change lor oor alumni magazine. Wc go from six'issaeS: pcr year to eight and unless more of 70a make-good use of this month's yellow card insert, .1*11 be foiecd to publish some of my psychedelic poetry, which xcally is not ^Try good. MIKE DEL FRA took the irrevocable plmge from the heights of bachelorhood Aag, 10. ' He married Doima Marie Fizzano in Ridley Fa^'Pa . Tm new addresses: BOB MURPHY^ 1714 Star-bridge n. , Crofton, Md.; PAUL POLKING, 2933 Brinkley Rd., Apt. T-1, Temple Hnis, Md. 20031. Hopefully my address too will be new-next issue, since our house is nearing completioll. ­Law lounge is the gathering point after football games. Let me hear from ajl of yoa by next deadline. 
 HUGHES 99 W. 37tk ST. 

1967 
JOHN BAYONNE, J, N J . 07002 
tween Pearl Harbor and Vietnam for the better •. part of a year. Mail will be appreciated and can reach him if addressed to USS Taylor (DD 46B) FPO, San Francasco, Calif. 
BILL SCHMUHL was at Saoopy's party and hie is practicing in Michigan City, Ind. He ii abo attending the U. of Chicago at night, to ^ck vp his master's degree in business. FRANK GIHLAR has been continuing his education and has re­ceived his Master tA Laws degree from Yale. Frank has offers for a teaching position at several law schools but at thb vrritins we're not sure whidi one he'll accept. 
If I may add a personal note at this thne, Flo and I arc expecting onr sccoad baby ia No­vember. After all, by then it will be a full 11 mcHiths since our last one. Friends would have m belic%-e it's the water but I know it's that the practice of law has kept me so busy I never bad a chance to finish Prof. Noonan's book. 
Now that yon finished readii« this cobnna, yoa nught waat to flip throngfa the rest of the mas­azine. In doing; so you'll notice a ydlow card insert. Tear it oat — fill it in — and aul it to me. Even if you don't think yoa have any newi, at least let m know your current addicn tmd' employer. Do it now! Please!! 
1968 
LEONAIO I. FELLEOCBU 311 iCT. ROSFECT AVE. KEWAIK. NEW JEKSEY OTIM 
GRADUATE SCHOOLS 
August Commencement Swells Grad School Ranks 
F
OUR HUNDRED FORTi' names were added to the graduate school Alumni roster at the summer com­mencement Aug. 2 in Stepan Center. 
Rev. Raymond W. Murray CSC '18, professor emeritus of sociology', was awarded an honorary doctor of laws degree and Rev. John E.- Walsh CSC, vice-president for academic af­fairs, delivered the commencement address. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, acting president of the University, conferred the degrees. 
Father Murray, a 74-year-old an­thropologist who fathered graduate study in sociology at ND, joined the faculty in 1926 after receiving his doc­torate from the Catholic U. of Amer­ica. A native of Bridgeport, Conn., he received a bachelor of laws from ND and was ordained in 1924. 
LYNN CRANDALL and MARK LEVANDOSKI No sibling rivalry. 
From 1926 to 1953 he headal the University's department of sociology and regularly taught courses in soci­ology, social problems, criminology, abnormal psychology and soda! psy­chiatry. He also served as part-time chaplain at Beatty Memorial (Men­tal) Hosp. in Westville, Ind. A for­mer president of the American Cath­olic Sociological Society, Father Mur­ray is author of four books, including Man's Unknown Ancestors. He re­tired following the 1967-68 school 
year. Included in the graduating group were 15 doctorates, 255 master of arts recipients, 92 master of science, 49 master of arts in teaching, 17 master of business administration, 12 master of music and 27 undergraduate de­grees. Among them was a brother-sister team: Mark Levandoski of Grauid Rapids, Mich, and Mrs. Lynn Crandall of South Bend, both of whom received MAT degrees. Rev. Aidan Kavanagh OSB, asso­ciate professor of theology and head of ND's graduate program in liturgy, preached at Baccalaureate Mass in the Chapel preceding the graduation ceremonies. Father Joyce was prin­cipal celebrant at the Mass. Father Walsh told the graduates the task of the contemporary univer­sity is to help bring about funda­mental changes in society necessary for men "to live worthily and gain their bread in dignity." "It goes without saying," he added, "that if the university is to fulfill its proper function and live up to its promise, it, too, will have to be re­structured in many ways. "The malaise from which the world suffers today is unmistakably a malaise of the human spirit and a dissatisfaction of the human soul," Father Walsh stated. "Our problems are at root of problems of values, pri­orities and ideals." 
Music Department 
Vaclav Nclhybcl was awarded the 1968 St. Cecilia Award presented by the Univemty Bands. This award is given annually to that musical pexsonality who has contributed greatly to the development of the American band movement. Nelhybel ytss bom in Czechoslovakia in 1919 and is now an Ameri­can citizen. His career includes permanent con­ducting posts with tlic Radio Prague and Czech Philharmonic Orchestras as well as guest conduct­ing appearances with major European orchestras. He studied composition and conducting at the 
Prague Conser\'atory of Music and musicology In 
Prague and Fribourg, Su-itzerland. In the, past 
several years Nelhybel has created more significant 
music for band than any other composer. He has 
appeared widely throughout the country as guest 
ojnductor and clinician and is continually com­
misuoned to do work by major band associations, 
private enterprise and national honorary fraterni­
ties and sororities. 
He is considered among the most significant 
personalities in this field and has attained an in­
ternational reputation with rewards in Copcn­
hagcn^ Prague, Munich, New York and Los 
Angeles. Among his many fine compositions are 
**IVcIude and Fugue," **Trittico," "Marcia 
Dorica,** *'Choralc," "Andante and Toccata** and 
''Symphonic Requiem.'* 
Rev. G. CARL HAGER CSC *35, MI, chairman 
of the music department received word from 
JOHN R. GUINN -59 during his summer on the 
continent. At the time of the correspondence to 
Father Hager, Jack was attending some operas In 
Munich. His itinerary included visits throughout 
Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Italy. High­
light of the excursion \i-as a visit to Lucca, home 
of Puccini. 
JAMES S. PHILLIPS '61 appeared as conductor 
of one of the bands at the National Catholic Band­
masters* Assoc, summer camp at the Blue Lake 
Fine Arts Camp in Twin Lake, Mich. MIKE 
HENNESSEY '66 has been named director of 
musical productions at Bishop Noll Institute, 
Hammond, Ind. This, of course, is in addition to 
his many other duties. Among the productions he 
has done are "West Side Story," *'Guj3 and Dolls'* 
and "The Fantisticks." 
We would like to congratulate and welcome the following to the ranks of the Alumni of the grad­uate program in the department of music: Sr. THOMAS CHRISTINE BROUILLETTE. Sr. M. BENEDICT BROW.N, Sr. RITA JOAN CASE, Sr. M. STELLA DAVIS. Sr. MARY ALAN DYER, Sr. M. SHEILA K.ANE. Sr. M. THE­RESE KOSTERS, Sr. M. ANNE LINHOFF. Sr. MARJORIE McGR.\TH. Sr. M. DAVID RADSTATTER. Sr. VERONICA MARIE SIG­GINS and JOHN VOGEL. 
—}amez S. Phillips 
UniversHy Bands^ Box 523 
Nofre Dome, Ind. 46556 
Physics Department 
Our official count of Physics PhD Alumni is now 139, up one from the figure given in column No. 3 (July-August). The newest member of the group is JOHN ROBERT DUR-^Y, Aug. 2, 1968 (nuclear physics). John will be at Ohio State this next academic year on a postdoctoral appointment. WALT LABERGE (sec column no. 
3) finally checked in. Walt, wife Pat, and children Peter, Steve, Jeanne, Philip and Jackie, live ac 432 Timberlanc Dr., De%on, Pa. 
JOHN E. IVORY '54 (high polymer physics) stopped in for a brief visit Aug. 6. John, who has been at the Naval Research Lab since I960, has accepted a new position with the Chicago ONR Office and was on his way to Clilcago to begin his new duties. John, wife Gertrude, and chil­dren Mary, Gertrude and John, formerly resided in Washington, DC. I'll supply their new Chi­cago address \vhcn it is available. 
EDWIN J. SCHILLINGER '50 (nuclear physics) and wife Carmelita live at 7724 Peterson Ave., Chicago 60631. They have six children, Rosemarie, Alary, Ann, Edwin, Jerome and Eliza­beth. After serving for a good many years as chairman of the department of physics at De-Paul U., Ed took on the additional assignment of dean of DePaul's College of Liberal Arts and Sciences in 1966. He also scr\'cd as a consultant to NSF and UES from 1962-67, was a member of the AAPT Membership Committee 1967-68. member of the Council of AAPT, former presi­dent of the Chicago Chapter of AAPT and direc­tor of the Physics Club of Chicago. (Wonder what he docs in his spare time?) 
RAYMOND J. MUNICK '50 (physical elec­tronics), wife Treva, and five children, Teresa, Constance, Jennifer, Paula and Christine, live at 1M2 S. Birch St., Santa Ana, Calif. 92707. Ray is currently a member of the technical staff of Autonetics Division, North American Rockwell Corp., Anaheim, Calif. 
EUGIUS A. WOLICKI '50 (nuclear physics), wife Wilma and four children, Karol, Ann, Stasia and Stefanie, live at 1310 Gatewood Dr., Alexandria, Va. 22307. "Al" has been at the Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, DC 20390 since 1952, and currently functions as con­sultant and associate superintendent (acting) of their nuclear physics division. He also served in 1965 and 1966 on a. part-time basis as sdentifie program officer in the nuclear physics branch of the Office of Naval Research. 
ROBERT S. WITTE, wife Marjoiie, and nine children, Rf)bcrt, Thomas, Mary, Anne, J«sepb, Kathcrinc, £Ii2abctb, Martha and John, live at 230 Via Linda Vista, Redondo Beacfa. Calif. Bob was a member of our physics department faculty from 1957 to 1962. Since 1962 he has been < with 

Miev. Sigmund Drafjastin MA *G4 
FRANCISCAN FINDS 
A 
FEW YEARS AGO no One would have expected to find a priest working at a civil service job. But experimental changes are taking place in Roman Catholic orders and now Rev. Sigmund Dragastin OFM MA '64 has joined the staff of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Develop­ment. He works as a program analyst in the office of the associate director for program planning and evaluation in Bethesda, Md. 
Father Dragastin came to his new position from the National Opinion Re­search Center at the U. of Chicago where he was a survey research fellow. He received his PhD in sociology in June from that university. 
In his new position Dr. Dragastin will study, monitor and evaluate re­search and training in the social and behavioral sciences conducted by NICHD. He will function as a mem­ber of an interdisciplinary team in co­ordinating the research areas of that institute into an integrated program. 
While at National Opinion Research Center, Dr. Dragastin received inten­sive training in sur\'ey research, espe­cially in study design and data anal­ysis. During this period he also car­ried out an analysis of the influence of the religious factor on psychological 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1968 
GOVERNMENT JOB 
well-being. This analysis formed the 
basis for his PhD dissertation. 
The National Institute of Child 
Health and Human Development is one 
of the eight Institutes comprising the 
National Institutes of Health and was 
established by the late President John 
F. Kennedy in January, 1963. This Institute concentrates its re­search efforts on the total process of human development—from before con­ception through the prenatal period, infancy, childhood, adolescence, ma­turity and old age. The new philosophy of religious orders permits their members to use their individual talents in situations formerly inaccessible to them. Father Dragastin's appointment to his present position is believed to be one of the first of the new roles for religious orders. He receives a salary as a classified civil service employee and will be al­lowed to retain a portion to meet neces­sary expenses. The remainder will be offered to the Franciscan Order. Residing in Bethesda, Father Dra­gastin is able to conduct Mass at the Academy of American Franciscan His­tory Chapel in nearby Potomac, al­
though he expects soon to say Mass in his small apartment. 
TRW SrstcBS, Oae Space Park, Kedonda Bead, 
Calif. 
. The editor hat tBreatdMd mxylieai if I exceed 
400 wonb, « crioae I hwe alicadr "—^"—'i 
m I liad better end tUi cohaia. More aixiat 
otlKr PhD Ahmu of the I930i in the acxt 
—Kobtrt L Antfionf Aai^ant Chairman Department of Mysici Noir* Oomt, fn<f. 46556 
Theilify Departaert 
Kev. JOSEPH H. PETULLA l U '59 has left 
for the U. of California, Berhelef, to begin work 
on his PhD. He win spedalize in sodal ethics at 
the Graduate Theological Union of the nmnnitr. 
BHX HABDWICK '68 is teachii« at Man­
hattan Col. in New York and BILL STARK '68 
at Mt. St. Scholasdca Col. in AtcUiao, Kan. 
Both were married in August. 
ERNIE COLLAMATI '68 is teaching at St. 
MarT'sH>f-the-Woods in Tnre Haute. GAIL 
BOLLER '68 is teaching at Sacred Heart U., 
Bridgeport, Conn. 
Rev. JOHN KELLY '68 has returned to his 
high school teaching post in San Mateo, CaGf., 
while JOE KELLY '68 and BfARa'UtET 
WERNER '68 are continuing their studies in the 
doctoral pTDgnun at ND. CHARLES McCARTHY 
'68 continues teaching in the CoUc^te Seminar 
at ND. 
Sr. ELIZABETH ANNE LEVALLEY '68 is 
badt at her high school job in Rochester, NY, 
but hopes to return to NO for the PhD progiam. 
^4trs. Ann Scheu 
Secretory, Oept. of Tfteofog/ Notre Dome, fnd. 46556 
Mechanical Engineering 
Witk motion irrotathmai, mfluidiMcompresffbte, 
A tiny little minnouj swims along a line of flow. 
And the greater its velocity—weS cutting our 
verbosity— 
Tlu greater its velocity, the faster ti wiU go. 
—^EUaUU, CAMBUDCX 
The department, like the minnow, finds itself 
swinimins on faster. The chainnan and usual 
author of thb column. Dr. Edwrard W. Jerger, 
who has heaikd the department for the past ux 
yean, has accepted the new posiuon of associate 
dean of our College of Engineering. His fellow 
colleagues and friends of the department wish 
him the best in this new position. 
During the recent growth of the department to 
Its present strength of 17 members, the area of 
fliud mechanics — like the minnow — has con­
tinued its swim with greater velocity. To this end, 
the department is pleased to announce that Dr. 
Rbbcrt Betchov has added lus knowledge, ability, 
wit and untiring capacity to tlus group. Dr. 
Betchov received his doctorate in phyucs from 
the U. of Benie. 
After several yean in academic life at the Johns Hoi^ns and the Institute for Fluid Dynamics and .Applied &&thcmatics at the U. of Max^hmd, Dr. Betchov was associated with the Douglas Corp. and the Aerospace Corp. He comes to us after a year sabbntical at the U. of Berne. He is the co­author of the book entitled Stability of Parallel Flow. His fields of knowledge are sta^tical me­chanics, thermodynamics, fluid mechanics with special emphasis on hydrodynamic stalvlity and turbulence. 
Dr. Betchov will add his knowledge to that of the other members of ihe group like Dr. Victor Nee who is developing a phenomenological theory of turbulent flow. Based on his knowledge of the subject of turbulent flows and his proposed theory. Dr. Nee was invited to compete in what has been termed at the Stanford U. Olympiad, Le., The Symposium on the Calculation of Turbulent Boundary Layeis. 
Dr. Albin A. Szewczyk had the pleasure of working with Dr. Betchov in the summer of 1962 on some hydrodynamic stability proUems. Dr. Snwczyk has basically been invohred with experi­mental investigations of \'arious fluid flow jnob­lems. These have dealt with free convective flow over plates and cliscs as well as ntacmscc^^ solidification problems. His recent interest, though, has been largely concerned with the experimental use of the computer to solve the fluid mechanics problems. On his recent findings. Dr. Szewczyk %«as innted to speak at the First International 
BORDERS '47 HAWTHORNE '51 
Congrats 
Bishop William Borders MS'47, for­mer rector of the Cathedral of St. Joseph, Baton Rouge, has been named the first bishop of Orlando. The new diocese covers over 12,000 square miles and has a Catholic population of 87,374 in 47 parishes. 
Dr. Quintin J. Hawthorne MS '51, PhD '65 has been appointed dean of the school of engineering of Tri-State College. He will continue as chairman of the departments of aeronautical en­gineering and mechanical engineering, positions he held prior to the new appointment. 

SNinposium on Computing in Fluid Dynamics at Monterey, Calif. 
Dr. K. T. Yang (who is concerned with un­steady viscous flows and hydrodynamic stability problems). Dr. Stuart McComas (who is studjnng iieat transfer effects in internal flows) and Dr. Jerome Xovotny (wiio is investigating viscous flow radiation-interaction problems) afford the group many lively discussion sessions — some to the consternation of their graduate students. 
Dr. DAVID C. THOMAN PhD *66 has been promoted to senior engineer for the Bendix Corp. in South Bend. He is continuing hts work in numerical fluid mcdianics with application to fluid amplifier. Dr. RICHARD A. BAJURA PhD '67 has taken a leave of absence from the Bobcock & Wilcos Rcsearcli Center to do post­doctoral studv at Jolins Hopkins. 
Dr. THOMAS J. HIRONS »60, assistant pro­fessor of mcclianical engineering, has left the de­partment to take a position at Los Alamos Re­search Center. 
Dr. QUI.Vn.V HAWTHORNE PhD '65 has recently been appointed dean of engineering at Tri State Col. 
Keep us posted. Wc like to hear from you so that we kno^v what our graduates arc doing. 
—Prof. Aibin A. Szewczyk Depf. of Mechanical Engineering Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

Law School 
Speaking at the annual meeting of the Ameri­can Bar Association in Philadelphia before the Section of Bar Acti^-itics. the dean of the Notre Dame Law School, ^VILLIAM B. LA\VLESS, former Justice of the New York Supreme Court, outlined the role for law schools in the US. 
He stated the late Chief Justice of the New Jersey Supreme Court, Hon. Arthur T. Vander­bilt, accurately predicted a decade ago what the law scrhool must become. Dean Lawless quoted approvingly Justice Vanderbilt's statement that the Law School may no longer be restricted to tcadung law to prospective law>*cis in a purely IcgjU atmosphere. Rather, the law school of today must teach the law, train the prospective attorney in fundamental skills and, above all, relate the law to life and society. 
**The law school should undertake critical re­search projects in areas of public intcrf^st." said Dean Lawless. '*It should build strong bridges vrltb. local, state and national bar associations. 
 NEUFELD "51 PINADO '58 

I ALUMNI IN THE NEWS 
Dr. C H. Harry Neufeld PhD 'SI 
has been appointed to direct the activi­ties of the Southwestern Utilization Re­search Div. of the US Department of Agriculture. The new division will be re­sponsible for discovering new knowledge of the components of farm crops and developing new products and processing technology. 
Alan E Pinado MBA '58 ^^s been appointed asst. vice-president in the real estate and mortgage loan dept. of' New York Life Insurance Co. He came to the company from IBM. 
The practicing bar should feel free to turn to the law school for counsel and guidance. The law school should draw upon the local bar for clinical programs and resident training. The law school must develop a more flexible curriculum which not only seijcs to know what the law is, but ex­plore what the law ought to be. 
*'The law school should produce men deeply concerned about the public afTairs of their state and nation. The law school must U(t its aght beyond the traditional role and seek out new techniques, new reforms, new solutions to the ancient problems. Ultimately, every major law school f^hould become a law center.** 
Dean Lawless quoted the late Judge Benjamin Cardoza as saying that judges and ad\*ocates may not relish the admission, but the sobering truth is that leadership in the march of legal thought has been passing from the benches of the «iurts to the chairs of the universities and law schools. 
In the course of his remarks. Dean Lawless stated the N D Law School will lift its sights to become a true law center as defined by the late Chief Justice Vandcrbilt and that initial steps in this direction have been taken through the es­tablishment of a Law Abroad Prc^ram cnablinS second-year N D law students to complete their second-year law requirements as students in resi­dence at University College Law Faculty, U, of London. He also described the new curriculum of the Law School which permits a broad choice of elective courses and encourages student par­ticipation in other disciplines of the University. 
During the summer Dean Lawless has spoken to ND Law School Alumni in Buffalo, Chicago, Detroit, Philadelphia and Portland, Ore. He in­tends to vint other Alumni groups throughout the year. 
Chemistry Department 
DICK VOGT '20, former faculty member and associate of Father Nicuwland, visited the Cam­pus in July. Dick Uves in Dundee in central Florida. Postdoctoral research associates this sum­mer included Rev. THOilAS OSTDICK OSB '58, St. Meinrad, Ind.; Sr. LAETICU KILZER OSB *6I, Mount Marty Col., Yankton, SD; and Sr. M. CARMELINE KNOEBER AdPPS *67, Sacred Heart Col., Wichita, Kan. Dr. John 
J. Kozak, a theoretical chemist from Chicago U., joined the faculty in September. Dr. Eliel re­turned in August after a year in Zurich. 
GEORGE BAUMGARTNER *53 is asst. to the dean of academic aSairs at Mt. St. Scho­lastica Col., Atchison, Kan. TOM DEHNER *66 
began teaching this month at the State U. of 
New York at Binghamton. NICK DICIANNI 
'65 is now a staff consultant with UNIVAC in 
Philadelphia. At Afercyhurst Col. in Erie, Fa., 
where new science facilities were dedicated this 
spring, Sr. MARY CAROLYN HERMAN RSM 
'52 is president and Sr. MARY CHARLES 
WESCHLER RSM MS*5I (PhD Carnegie Tech 
'56) is chairman of the division of science and 
mathematics. 
WALTER HOURT *55 has been appointed di­

rector of the corporate marketing office of At­
lantic Research Corp. BILL JOERN *67 is back 
teaching at Gannon Col. in Eric after a year 
with Monsanto in St. Louis. Bill and Barbara's 
seventh child, Ann, was bom in June. Sr. 
ELIZABETH KELLER CSJ teaches at Loyob 
U. in Los Angeles, not New Orleans as I re­ported recently. JOEL LIVINGSTON *62 \yas recently named a research assoc. in tlic Enjay Chemical lab of £s£0 Research & Engineering, Linden, NJ. CLIFF MIHM MS *37 is a super­visor with Phillips Petroleum Co., Phillips, Tex. 
HARRY NEUFELD '51 is the new director of the Dept. of Agriculture's Southeastern Utiliza­tion Research and Development Division, Athens, Ga. Sr. FRANCES MARIE (Grace Francis) ROSSI *64 left from Maryknoll this month to begin teaching at the U. of Ifc in Nigeria. HARRY WHITE '58 is asst. department manager in charge of professional recruitment for Rohm and Haas in Philadelphia. 
—Bro. Columba Curran CSC 
Depf, of Chemistry 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

Sociology-Anthropology 
At the August commencement exercises the Uni­versity conferred the degree of doctor of laws, honoris causa on "a priest and scholar whose early research and writing in anthropology and sociology made htm preeminent among Catholic social scientists. One of the founders of the American Catholic Sociological Society, lie fought vigorously for the acceptance of s€x:iology as a respected discipline when shortsighted opponents were denying it status. 
**A World War I serviceman, a graduate of the ND haw School, a doctoral student at Catholic U., a field expedition worker for the American Museum of Natural History and the U. of Alaska 
— all of these activities give evidence of the versatility of this person and his preparation for social studies. 
**A thorough and careful administrator, he di­rected the ND department of sociology for 27 years and set the guide lines for its exceptional development. 
*'A precise researcher, a painstaking teacher; thousands of students have benefited from his orderly and patient instruction. Young faculty members, too, have been inspired by his profes­sional integrity and devotion to learning.** 
It was, of course, conferred on Rev. Ra>*mond 
W. Murray CSC "for his tireless and productive ser\ice to the University and to his religious community.** Our earlier announcement of Father Murniy*s retirement elicited a spate of letters from his former students, many of whom, wc are con­fident, will appreciate this opportunity to sliare the citation reproduced above. 
MANSELL BLAIR, avrarded a doctorate in sociology at the August exercises, has returned to his native Canada and a teaching position at Windsor U. JOE SCHLANGEN MA =66 and JIM MEKO MA *68 chose this summer to start their own families of procreation. Entering the Army shortly after the honeymoon, Joe has been assigned to West Point where he will preach sodology to the cadets. 
The 1968 summer session enrollment exceeded the department*5 most sanguine projections (and the regular school-year enrollment as well). Fift>'­three graduate students were in residence, ten more than we had during the preceding fall and spring semesters. The annual summer session faculty-grad student picnic, moved indoors to Stepan Center by the threat of twisters, w*as an artistic and culinary success. Prof. Julbn Samora, manning the grill for the second consecutive year, proved once more that his hamburgers are the equal of those prepared by the nuns. His own children, however, prefer tiie ones sold at Mc­Donald's. 
—Prof. Robeff Vasoti Sociofogy Dept. Notre Dame, Ind. 465S6 

On Recortl-
MARRIAGES 

XTisj Mhrr Brady to FRANCIS J. FLYNN MS •58, Aug. 10. Miss Maiyann Boyd Thompsoa to JOHN COT­TER DOLAN '59, June 22. Miss Yvonne Marie McHugh to THOMAS CON­NOLLY '62, July 27. Miss Julie GUIis to HARRY W. McCAWLEY '62, Aug. 31. Miss Mary Jo Goggin to ROBERT NASH '62, Aug. 31. Miss Marian Julia Dooling to L. R. McINTYRE JR '63, June. Miss Kathleen Marie Gorman to JOHN A. RURAK MD '64, June 15. Miss Mary Lou Blceg (SMC '67) to DICK LARKIN '65, July. MUs Lucia RasIiosLy to ROBERTO POMA '65, July. Miss Mary Lou Barrett to DON ZONE '65, July. Miss Pamela Jeanne Klick to DO.N BOUFFARD JR '66, Aug. 10. Miss Lucille Claire Fortin to KENNETH ALAN KHOURY '66, Aug. 31. Miss Carol Ann Cameron to THOMAS R. ANDERSON '67, Aug. 17. 
Miss Mary Kathleen Zicgcr to THOMAS XL D'HAEZE '67, July 20. 
Miss Sandra Keller to JERRY HUHN '67, June 22. 
Miss Joan Kathcrine Marshall to JAMES G. VERNETTI '67, Aug. 17. 
Miss Mary Eleanor Price to RICHARD CHARLES LUX MA '67, Aug. 3. 
Miss Gcrmaine Banacki and JIM MOLLISON '67L, July 19. 
Miss Diane Lewis to THOMAS GEORGE Dc-LONG '68, July 20. 
Miss Carol Lj-nn Vatga to DAVID MARTIN WINKLER '68, June 15. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. DENNIS E. L.'MJGHLIN '55, a daughter, Erin Marie, Aug. 8. Mr. and Mrs. BERN.ARD P. McCLOREY '55, twins. Scan Patrick and Mary Kathleen, July 26. 
Fall Class Reunions immediately follow­ing the Oklahoma Game (Sept. 21), the Purdue Game (Sept. 28), the North-
CLASS OF 1928 Illinois O'Shaughnessy. 
CLASS OF 1929 Purdue Engineering Bldg. 
CLASS OF 1939 Purdue O'Shaughnessy. 
CLASS OF 1951 Northwestern To be announced. 

Mr. and Mrs. JEROME R. PRASSAS '55, » son, Christopher Jerome, June 26. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. HAYWARD '59, a daughter, Mary Bridget. Mr. and Mrs. BILL McCULLOUGU '59. Christine Downs, June 2. Mr. and Mrs. LARRY WENTZ '59, a daughter. Hope Marian, July 9. Mr. and Mrs. PHILIP C. HOFFMAN '61, a daughter, Sarah Marie, July 20. Mr. and Mrs. J. MICHAEL WHITE '61, a daughter, Meghan Claire, July 10. Mr. and Mrs. LUDWIG GARTNER JR '62, a daughter, Rachel, July 2. Mr. and Mrs. TIMOTHY TAYLOR '62, a son, Jeffrey Micluel, Aug. 17. Mr. and Mrs. LARRY ELBERSON '63, a son, David Paul, January. Mr. and Mrs. PHIL HALEY '65. a son, John Hardwick, February. Mr. and Mrs. BILL PREDEBON '65, a daughter, Nadinc Elizabeth, March. Mr. and Mrs. LEN WILTBERGER '65, a son, Afark Thomas, June. Mr. and Mrs. GARY E. KIRCHNER '68, a son, Christopher Gary, July 15. 
ADOPTION 

Mr. and Mrs. RICK SULLIVAN '63. twin daughters, Katy and Anne. 
DEATHS 

FR.\NK H. BOOS '12, July 13. He is survived by his widow, 9000 E. Jefferson Ave., Apt. 1409, Detroit, Mich. 48214 and a son FRANK H. Ill '56. 
SI.MEON T. FLANAGAN LLB '14, July 30. He is sur\*ivcd by his widow Edith, Madison Square Hotel, 37 Madison Ave., New York, NY 10010 
HARRY J. CULLEN '23. Aug. 10. His widow survives him, 5 Short Hills Garden, Millbum, NJ 07041. 
J.A.MES R. MEEHAN '24, Aug. 15. He was Class Secretary. He is survived by his widow Lavcma, 131 S. Williams St., Sooth Bend, Ind. 
P.AUL DRISCOLL '29, July 21, leaving his widow, Marion, a son and two daughters. THOM.\S QUALTERS '29, July 24. He spent 
Fall Class Reunions 
western Game (Oct. 12), the Illi­nois Game (Oct. 19) and the Pittsburgh Game (Nov. 9) have been planned by 
CLASS OF 1952 Northwestern O'Shaughnessy. 
CLASS OF 1953 Pittsburgh O'Shaughnessy. 
CLASS OF 1954 Oklahoma Engineering Bldg. 
CLASS  OF  1955  
Purdue  Morris  Inn.  
CLASS  OF 1957  
Illinois  O'Shaughnessy  Courtyard  

vet Tcan ai IjuJtgiuuJ to nesdent FianKBa D. Kooievelt and when Worid War n brake oat he mKitfd an the Am y Air Coipa iatd^fence dniskm. He roe to fientenaat colond and, after resigaing in 19(7, lem d as Chief of RoSee in Keene, NH. At the time of Us deadi he was asst. personnel manager at the Electniac Kr. of the Honeywell Corp. He is smvived by his iriie Ariene, Route 1, Smith Road, Antrim, MB. 
JOHN J. MAHONEY IXB -29, Ang. 24. He leaves his widow Anne. 8044 S. Yates Ave.. Chi­cago, in. 60017. 
JOHN J. KACFRZYNSKI -31, Oct. 2S, 1967. He leaves his widow Edith of WaHingfoid, Conn., and t%vo sons. 
LAURENCE "MOON" MULUNS '31, Aug. 
10. He was the starting fullback on Rockne's last thiee teams, two of wtuch were natiooal champioBS. After graduation he acted as coach and athletic director at several midwest schools iot three decades. He was president of the Athletic Instirate, Chicago, at the time of his death. He is survived by his widow Mary, Marina Towers, 300 N. Sute, Qiicago, and six cfaOdren. 
CUFFORD H. MIHM MS '37, May 14. He leaves his widow, 4134 Fifth St., Fhilview Addition, Botger, Tex. 79007. 
ALEC SHELLOGG '39, July 12. His famUy resides at 493 Hillgreen Dr., Beverly Hills, CaliL 90212. 
JOHN W. HAYES '41, June 27, in The Hague, The Netherlands. He is si*T\ivcd by his widow, four sons and a daughter. 
RICHARD A. LEE '64, July 26. He is survived by his brother JOSEPH '58. 
SYMPATHY 

MAX G. KAZUS '18 on the death of his daughter. 
HARRY W. FLANNERY '23 on the death of his wife. 
E. WILLIAM CASEY '59 on the death of his mother. Rev. JOHN S. DUNNE CSC '51 on the dcadi of his mother. FIIANK H. BOOS HI '56 on the death of his father FRANK H. BOOS '12. JOSEPH H. LEE '58 on the death of his brother RICHARD '64. 
PAUL J. DRISCOLL '63L on the death of his father, PAUL J. DRISCOLL '29. 
Class officers. At press time, the sched­ule reflected these Class gatherings: 
CLASS  OF  1958  
Purdue  Morris  Inn.  
CLASS  OF  1959  
Purdue  O'Shaughnessy.  
CLASS  OF  1960  

Northwestern Morris Inn. 
CLASS OF 1964L Purdue To be announced. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1948 
GENE MAYL '24 and PAT YAHLE '72 How's your Club doing recruiting? 
One Club, One Call 
Clubs 
D
AYTON, OHIO—^2135 Meriline, Day­
ton, Ohio. Another number, an­
other street, another town? No, this 
is the Yahle home and their boy goes 
to ND this year. 
His name is Pat. Six feet two and 
234 pounds. Pat's b ^ is football. All-
Area (two years), All-City (two 
years) and All-State his senior year— 
Pat Yahle is a very good football 
player. In fact, so good he was the 
first football player in Belmont HS 
history to have his number (No. 72) 
retired. 
In the fall of 1966, ND ^vas in­terested in a senior on the Belmont squad. Paul Shoults, Notre Dame defensive backfield coach and Ohio area recruiter, was going over some game film on the prospective high school candidate when his attention was attracted to a diflferent player, a defensive lineman \vith great agility. No. 72. Pat Yahle's name was brought up for the first time in a long-distance phone conversation between Shoults and Belmont's head coach Jim Mc­Dermott a few days later. That was Pat's junior year. 
Senior year is the big one when you're a high school football player. When the season was over, Pat Yahle had letters from some 50 of the best colleges and universities in the nation. He was up to ND to see the Navy game but he returned home a little disappointed by "the old buildings." 

Pat Yahle was at church when Ara Parseghian called Dec. 8. Another phone call came to the Yahle home on Meriline one week later. This time it was Dayton Club member Gene Mayl '24L, local attorney who played tackle in front of the Four Horsemen. There was much to be said about Notre Dame . . . that's something ND Club members do very well. 
Pat made another ND visit in Jan­uary. While some schools use die ap­proach of constant "coachly" attention and dining at the best restaurants in town. Coach Shoults picked Pat up at the airport—and left him . . . with two ND football players, Denny Allen and Tom Eaton. Pat ate "one of the best meals of my life" at the student cafeteria Friday night. Saturday morning he played basketball with some of the other recruits up in "the Rock." 
A personal conference with Coach Parseghian followed. There were no promises to play as a sophomore, a line that Pat knew by heart from other schools he visited. 
Saturday afternoon it was the ND-DePaul basketball game and a swim­ming meet After another meal in the student caf, Pat, Denny and Tom went to a party and then they just walked around downtown South Bend. Sunday there was Mass at Sacred Heart, a final chat with Coach Shoults, then back home to Dayton. 
Lunch Break! Whoa! It was early in February and still plenty cold in Dayton. Pat Yahle was at the Park Row Lounge, a small restaurant not far from Belmont HS. Across the table from him was Woody Hayes, head football coach of the Ohio State Buckeyes. 
Woody pressed, "Now, if you could narrow it down to just two schools, let's say Notre Dame and Ohio State, which would you choose right now?" 
Pat: "Notre Dame, sir." 
Woody: "Why?" 
Pat: "Well, sir, Notre Dame is a real good education." 
Woody snapped back, "Why, Ohio State can give you a better education than Notre Dame!" That is when Pat Yahle made up his mind. 
What is Pat Yahle like? Well, he's a big kid who tucks his chin like a 

West Point plebe when answering 
questions. And it's always "Yes, Mr. 
, no, Mr. " to those 

who are the slightest bit older (that's 
always tough on a guy from the Class 
of '65). He's a scholar-athlete, grad­
uating 14th out of 425 with a 3.7 
average. 
It just wouldn't be right to say Pat 

Yahle found Notre Dame because 
Notre Dame—^and the Dayton ND 
Club—also found Pat Yahle. He's a 
holler guy on the football field who 
can be moved to tears on the big play. 
You see, it's this way: Pat Yahle's a 
winner . . . and he plays for us come 
September. 
—tf. Mkhae] G. Wot/ifs '65, Dayton Club Secrefory 

AKRON' The following were elected officers for the 1968­69 year: JIM KEEGAN '59, president; BOB STACK '41, vice-pres.; JIM DETTLING '61, treas.; JACK GIBBONS '63, sec. The Club is going to concentrate on a more definite program for the coming year. The Annual Picnic u-as held jointly with the St. Mary's Club of Akron and combined with the Freshman Send­off. It was Aug. 12 at Shirley (SMC) and JOE ('53) VAN DEVERE's. Joe Van Devcir, HARRY PEPPER, DAN BARLOW, JACK GIBBONS, JOE SOLOJfAN, DICK NOVrrSKY, JIM DETTLING, BOB STACK and JIM KEEGAN assisted with the arrangements. Additional pbns call for October and January Smokers; Student-Athlete awards in conjunction with ND Communion Day Dec. 8; Annual St. Patrick's Day Dance; UND Night; strong re­cruiting committee; and establishment of an "ef­fective purpose" of the Club. —^Jack Gibbons '63, Secrelary 
BOSTON 

The Club held its fourth annual Golf Outing at the Wollaston Golf Club, Quincy, Mass. June 
18. SAM MERRA '57 won the tournament and was awarded the Club trophy at dinner that evening. JOE KENNEALEY '39 and DICK LAMERE '49 were co-chaitmen of the event. They were ably assisted by LOU DiGIOVANNI '49 and BILL STEWART '43. 
The Club is pleased to announce its Schedule of Events for the coming season and asks that its membership make note of the dates: 
Sept. 2, Patriots-Philadelphia Eagles game and reception honoring NICK BUONICONTI; Mid-September, Freshman Send-Off Dinner; Nov. 15, ND Nitc at Suffolk Downs; Dec. 8, Universal ND Communion Breakfast; Jan., 1969, community service program for underprivileged children; Feb., 1969, annual meeting. Sports Nite and Highlights of ND Football, 1968; April, 1969, UND Night; June, 1969, Annual Golf Outing, 
—W. J. Pielrtisiak '58, Secretary 
BUFFALO 

Our Club has just completed a very successful summer. The June meeting spotlighted 3 panel discussion on violence in Americ^a. Panel mem­bers were Dr. Marvin LaHood, Dr. David Valaik and Robert Drajcm. Each panel member ad* dressed himself to a different aspect of the topic 
June 28 BufTalo Raceway was the scene of an ND Night at the Races. The success of the evening w'as due to the planning of Pres. JOHN LaDUCA and MARTIN JACOBI. 
A golf tournament was held Aug. 1 at tho Beaver Island Golf Course under the chairman* ship of MAURY QUINN. 
The first Wtefc In September we honored tha incoming freshmen with a Welcome Night. —Robert A. Drajeni '64, Secretary 
^^ ^ CENTRAL JERSEY ^^ ^ 
A successful goU outing chaired by TERRY BRADY was June 11 at Baltusrol Country Club in Mountainside. BILL DEGNEN JR. the Big Boomer, copped the low net prize on a match of cards. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER W6S 
Re-elected officers of the Club for the 

year in a recent election were HOWAKD GIL­
LESPIE, pres.; NORRIS HAROING. nce^ra.; 
DICK CONNELLY, vice-pres., public rehliom: 
DAVE COLLINS, sec.; JACK HOBUTZEIX, 
treas. Newly elected trustees are BILL DE(mEN, 
JIM HARBISON and DAVE GIBBONS. 
Our football trip this year will be Nov. 2 to 

see the Irish beat Navy. Dave Gibbom ktt 
accepted the cbaintunship of this important famd 
raiser. 
—Oovid f. Collins, Sacntory 

^^^ ^ CINCINNATI ^^^^ At the annual election meeting at the Buxgcr Tap Room, the following new oflScers were chosen to lead the Club during the coming year: LAKRY KYTE '60, pres-; JACK LYNCH *63. vice-pcea.; DREW BARTON '60, tieas.; and DICK CAS­TELLINI '54, sec BILL BURKE '54 and DREW BARTON served as co-chairmen of the annual Golf Outing July 10 at H^-de Pa^ Country Oub. JOHN FEAD '47 shot his age to capture low net honors. The annual Freshman Send C ^ Hcnic was Sept. 3 at Elsaesser's Farm. JOHN SMITH '61 was chairman of the event and TOM EGAX '66 assisted him. July 27 the Club sponsored a field trip to The Cincinnati Bengals training camp for "Our Place," a local teen club serving residents of a depressed area in town. CHUCK LIMA '58, JOHN BUTKOVrrCH '61, JIM LEONARD '54, JACK LYNCH, DICK FAVRET '60 and LARRY KYTE were among those who took part in the affair. 
—Dick Casteliini '54, Stcrcfory 
COLUMBUS, OHIO 

Pres. FRANK BETTENDORF '59 caUed a jmnt meeting of Club officers and directors for Aug, 7 at Scioto Country Club. All of the o£Bcers and all of the newly elected directors were present. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss both the local Club's organization and Club actmties for the coming year. 
President Bettendorf addressed the groiqi in regard to the Club's adoption of the Model Con­stitutioa drafted by the National Alumni As5oa»> tion. Our new Constitution delineates the powcts and duties of the directors and officers and sets forth the basic requisites for retention of the local charter. 
A motion was made and duly seconded propos­ing that each director and officer act as churman of a particular event during the coining year. The purpose of the proposal Is to involve the directors more actively and to ^versfy Club leadership. The motion was well received and passed unanimously. 
Director JOHN Ml^PHY '28 wfll organize the Communion Breakfast. Treasurer MIKE DRIS­COLL '60 and Scc'y DAN IGOE '65 will run the business meeting. l^ D Night will be handled by Directors JOHN GUZZO '62 and JOHN DORIAN '60. Co-chairmen for the Christmas Dance are Directon JOHN DCX>D * » mU WOB 
DUSTEKBERG '61. Frcsh«aa Orienlnii— mm 
hawOcd fay Fnak Bcttewlarff *59; SMI Ae AMU I 
AliiMU Picaac is nce-pns. JOHN GUENDTs 161 
fnnctiott. 
IKitctor JOE RYAN '62 a chuma •{ the 

Weekly Ahnni Lnacheaa iiiiigiiM ThcM la ­
cheba win be held on the tame ^ cwh week 
and no iciemtiaat will be meatuiy. Watch far 
mote mfotnadoa ea this ^I'.^iBg BOOM. 
—Don fgaa 'iS, SaaltMy 

^^ CONNECnCUT VAUEY "i ^ 
As acttvE fall irill open with a icnj nff afiaaer for the area Frcshmeii and thor fitthcn ihniaa the second week of September. FKANK LANE *M, the du b president, hat planned a fall raond of events and the year's progtaaa haa been mailed to the entire membexship. It is anticipated that there will be a good response. Kggcr and better things are planned for the fatnre. 
The CUb has nsed the impetm of the SUIOIA caa^ugn to i^date its roles and it woold be^ap­preciated if any errors that persist are brooght to the attention ol the secretary. 
Two objectives have been determined dnring the past year: an active membershv and a healthier finaiiirial position. The officers hope to. pot'both' on a steady footing with the help at aU ND men in the Connecticnt Valley. 
—Mm MeGuirm '63, Sacreforir 
OAUAs-ron WORIH^S^ 

The annual snnimrr puty for Ahmud and familin of the Chib was at Viekery Rufc July 20.. The attendance was estimated at 150. Chaiiaaai i>i~ the event was DAN UacINNIS who was ably assisted by JOHN RONAN. ED Zn.T.IKEN and RUSTY CDONNELL. Jud^mg fran the amount of food and beverages coiiiiinifdj it was a great success. 
Sept. 6 was the Back-lo^Scbool Smoker iduch featured fifancd highlights of the 1967 football season. 
—louranca O. Bedford '57, Secralanr 
DAYTON 

JIM BROGAN '62 ran the annual fannlr picnic for the Club at the Miami Valley Cotmtry Club of Dayton Sept. 1. A group of 50 to 100 Alumni, students and prospective students and fanulies enjoyed themselves. There was plenty of free beer and soft drinks to complement the home oooU[^. . This was definitely a good thing since many of the younger Alums chose to sample everyone's food. 
The annual Alumni-student football game w-as called because of darkness, with the Alums pro­testing vigorously to the end. A rdnatch was scheduled for next year but the Alums continued . the contest with stories of the old ND.: Of course, there were organized games for the kldi. And the %rives had a chance to chat. But as al­ways, the day was over, almost before it began. 
Arrangements on the Commnmoa IKnaer are betas planned by JACK BARSTOW '63. Jack is wofkins with JoJia Does '69 in hopes of s%aing 
DETROIT GOLF OUTING — Duffefs (left to right) or* Fred Code '<60, cnst. chairman; Charles Greneder; Jim Fuchs;John Panelli '49;CoachAraParseghkin. 
up a very well knuwn student to speak on the role of the student in the new ND. This event is scheduled for the day after Thanksgiving and should be a real good chance for the local students to give us Alums a firsthand ^iew of what's hap­pening. 
PAT FOLEY*s '54, '55, '56 troubles arc almost over — at least one of them, anyway. Pat was battling the IRS papermill to set up our scholar­ship fund as being officially tax deductible. Well, the battle is over. This is certainly a worthy cause, with all funds to be used on a loan basis. Send your checks to ED STEINER '44. 4962 .\quilla Dr., Dayton, Ohio 45415. Make them pay­able to the Notre Dame Club of Dayton. Two local students were able to get a start at ND due to this program. 
—if. Michaei G. Mathis '65, Secretary 

^^^ ^ DECATUR, ILL. ^^^ ^ 
The man of all this season is JOH.V DUN.N '58, '61L. He organized our trip to the Illinois game, which included a mjiiad of details. He then set out chairing our annual meeting Oct. 3 at the Blue &nil Restaurant. Let's hear it big for John Dunn! 
•^Stephen G. GraUker '42, Secretary 
DENVER 

The following officers have been elected for 1968­
69: RICK BRUNO '64. pres.: VINCE DUNCAN '44, \ice.pres.; PETE FISCHER '64. treas.j and DICK McMANUS '65, sec The directors are ED MAHONEV '52. JIM COUGHLIN '57, RAY DcLUCA '62, JIM HILGER '56, JIM SHEE­IL\N '50 and JERRY SMYTH '27. 
Tlie Club's Man of the Year Award this year went to the Honorable TOM CURRIGAN '41, mayor of Denver. The Club held its annual fam­ily picnic at Crcstmoor Pool where a good time was had by all. 
\Vc arc now in the process of updating our directory which should be published in Septem­ber. The Annual Sports Dinner is coming up and will feature Coach JOHNNY DEE as the guest speaker. 
~-Dick McManus '65, Secretary 
DETROIT 

Tlic annual Golf Outing was July 16 at the Pine Lake Country Club. Two hundred Alumni and guests attended. 
From the University came Head Football Coach Ara Parseghian as guest speaker and assistant coaches Paul Shoults and George Sefcik. Current \'arsity players in attendance included Capt. Bob Olson and Jim Scj-mour. Others from the Uni­versity included Rev. JEROME WILSON, Rev. JAMES RIEHLE and Rev. CLARENCE DUR­BIN. 
Golfing with Coach Parseghian were JOHN PANELLI '49, Cliarlcs Grencdcr and Jim Fuclis, former Olympic gold medal shot-put winner and president of the Mutual Sports Network. 
Winners in the tournament were LLOYD SYRON '58 (70), Don Hibbard (74) and ART SHANNON '59 (longest dnve, 250 yds.). Both Coach Paneghian and John Panclli had 77s. 
—Gory W. Dillon 
ERIE = 

Tbe Club held its Freshman Sendoff at the summer residence of LEO J. BRUGGER, Avonia Beach, Fairview, Aug. 24. Among those who attended with their wives were JOSEPH BARBER '36, ROBERT B.\RBER '40, LEO BRUGGER SR '34, LEO BRUGGER JR '61, DONALD BUSECK '50, HOWARD ESSICK '41, WILLIAM GR-\NT '45, EDWARD KERN '56, HERBERT KERN '54 JAMES MAHONEY '51. JOHN Mc-CORlkflCK JR '53, RICHARD McCORMICK '55, TIMOTHY McCORXnCK '57, LEWIS SHIO­LENO '49, JOHN SITTERLE '60, JOSEPH STADLER '53. RONALD VOMERO '65, ROB­ERT WESCHLER, CHARLES \VITTMAN N '33, JOHN YOUNG '51, ANTHONY ZAMBROSKI ''52, Frank Riley, Hoot Scully and Fred Strasser. 
Also, Judge Tliomas Barber, Michael McCor­mick, Mike KfcCoy, Joseph Spak, Duanc Lupo, Jack Cronin, Dick Dahlkcmpcr. Richard Roscher> Jim Meko, Phil KriU, Jack Quinn, Bill Crotty, Douglas Urbaniak, Tom Gould and David Hallcr. 
The honored guests, who will be starting their freshman year in September, nnd their parents included: Dr. and Airs. Meyer Zeluer and son Cbaries, William W. Peters and son Bill, Dr. and Mrs. M. O'Lcary and son Joe, Mr. and ^frs. John H. Magner Jr and son Richard, Mr. and Mrs. Carl J. Kulm and son Robert, Air. and AIis. 
Robert J. Ulig and son Bob, Mr. and Mrs. Carl 
A. Hansen and son Kc\-in, &Ir. and Mrs. Fete Gulick and son Gerald, Mr. and Mrs, Clarence Froess and son James, Mr. and Mis. L. C. Anderson and son George. 
—teo J. Brugger Jr *61, Secrefory 

^^ ^ FOX RIVER VALLEY ^^ ^ WISCONSIN 
The Club held its Umvcrsal Notre ftime Night meeting at the Darboy Club, Darboy, Wis. early in May. 
Tlie following officers were elected for the cur­rent year: JOHN K. GSCHWIND, pres.; VIN­CENT J. STE. MARIE, vice-pres.; JAMES J. SIDAL, sec-trcas. 
A get-together is planned in the fall on the afternoon of the nationally televised Notre Dame football game and wc expect to have a joint meet­ing with the Green Bay Club for Universal Notre Dame Night in the spring of 1969. 
—James J. S'lddall, Secy.-Treos, 
HARRISBURG, PA. 

Tlie Club held its Fifth Annual Sports Night Aug. 9, This affair is part of the festivities pre­ceding the Annual Big 33 High School ffxitball game. More than 150 Notre Dame alumni and friends were on hand. Coaches Johnny Ray and Joe Yonto discussed the '68 prospects and narrated a 6Im on the spring practice game. Pres. JOE ELL.A.M presented an award to Jeff Zimmerman in recognition of his efforts during the '67 season. 
Forty-four members are looking forward to their chartered plane trip to the NIMDklahoma game Sept. 21. 
^FronJc Gi//i*s, Secretary 

^^^ ^ INDIANAPOUS -
Tlie Annual Golf Outing was held July 25 at the Speedway Golf Course, followed by a banquet at the Speedway Motel. LEO BARNHORST was chairman, assisted by BOB K.\NE, LEO Mc-NAMARA, BOB KESSING and BEN KOEBEL. Low gross score honors for Alumni on this cham­pionship course went to ED McNAMARA, with TOM WILLIAMS and JOHN FOLEY tied for second low gniss. 
Al the banquet. Coach Wally Moore gave us a preview of the forthcoming football season, as Chuck Lauck (staying in training) declined dessert. Jim Witchger, a Freshman this fall, made some mental notes. 
—Joseph A. Naughton, Jr., Secretary 

^^^^ JERSEY SHORE ^^^^ 
Pres. DICK CORDASSO is planning a victory cocktail party-dinner following the Navy game at the Cherry Hill Inn. The general get-together will be in the Coach Room of the Inn and w^l include both cocktails and dinner for those in­\erestcd. TIic dinner is optional and can be oidered from the menu. .All Alumni, family and friends are welcome to attend. 
Bro. RAPHAEL WILSON from the University admissions office was the speaker at the annual Freshman SendofT. Guests of the Club were the Guidance directors of the Monmouth and Ocean County high schools. Cliairman for the affair at the Christian Brothers Academy was DICK BYRNE. In diarge of rcfreshmcnU was BOB GIUNCE. 
—Charlie Keller '54, Secretary 

^^ ^ NASHVILLE, TENN. • 
Members and guests present at the Aug. 5 Club meeting were: AL ABBEY, '51 DICK 3kL\RTLN, '54 TOM WERNER, '53 FRED SWINT, '31 DICK BEVINGTON, '48 PAUL HEER. '57 FATHER GIACOSA, FATHER ASTL. 
Al Abbey announced his resignation from the office of president since he has accepted another job position and will be moving to Atlanta short­ly. He then appointed Dick Martin to fiU out the unexpired term as president for the 1968 year. 
Paul Heer gave the treasurer's report which shows a bank balance of $192.50 as of Aug. 5. In addition, he stated that the Club has received 1968 dues from only 10 of 59 local Alumni. He urged that all members pay the 1968 dues as soon as possible. 
The summer golf outing was rescheduled for Aug. 24, at Harpcth Hills Golf Club. 
Al Abbey then introduced the first guest speaker. Father Charles Giacosa, who gave a brief talk on "Cursillo and Christianity." The talk was of special interest to the Club since both Al Abbey and Dick Bevington have under­taken the cursillo and were able to speak firsthand of their experience. 
Al Abbey then introduced Father Louis Antl OFM, Catholic chaplain for Tennessee State U., Fisk, and Meharry Medical CoK, who spoke on "Practical Considerations For the Catholic Lay­man on the Current Human Relations Problems." 
The members discussed the problem of en­couraging active member participation in the Club. The Club was formed for the benefit of all local alumni to contribute and foster the basic strength and growth in religious, social, and University interests. We, the officers, need your help and assistance in promoting the interests of the local altunni. The Club needs the active participation of all alumni NOW. 
—Paul Herr, Secretary-Treasurer 

^^ ^ NEW YORK CITY ^^ ^ 
Aug. 27 a large group of Incoming freshmen was given a fine sendoff in the Empire Room of the AValdorf. The program, arranged by JACK McN.AM.ARA '31, included an enthusiastic description of Campus life as it is by JIM GIBBONS. Tad Sheppard '69, president of the Campus Met Club, described the many activi­ties the Met Club runs for NYC area students including economy flights to and from South Bend and baggage transportation. 
JIM MacDEVITT *35 has been unanimously elected to the Alumni Senate by the Club Board of Directors. He joins Senators BUD MULVEY '51 and Jack McNamara and National Alumni Board member ED FITZPATRICK '54 In repre­senting the NY Club on the Campus. 
The Club is in the process of amending its charier to permit a member of each graduating class to become a member of the Board of Direc­tors upon graduation. This will give younger Alumni representation on the Board. JOHN O'DONNELL '68, past president of the Campus Met Club, Is the first man elected to the Board in this capacity. 
GORDON FORESTER '47, chairman of the Na\y game trip, reports that well over 1000 per­sons are expected to make the round trip to Philadelphia Nov. 2 in buses chartered by tlie Club. 
The annual Kickoff will open the Fall season Sept. 18. Speakers will include many notables from tlic athletic world and other prominent people. SKIP DAVIDSON '64, who did an out­standing job last )X'ar, will again be chairman and toastmastcr. The affair is once again ex­pected to be a sellout. 
Rev. Arthur F. X. McCann, son of ARTHUR 

J. McCANN '30, was ordained In St. Patrick's CaLliedral June 1 and concelcbrated his first Mass the following day at St. Ra>'mond's Church, Bronx, NY. Arthur is an Industrial real estate broker In the Bronx. 
HOWARD *'HOWIE" SMITH was honored at a testinionia! dinner in June at Blount St. Micliad's HS. The occasion marked Howie's 30th anniversary as coach and atliletlc director at the Mount where, over the years, he has pro­duced championship football, baseball and basket­ball teams. There were upwanls of 350 on hand to pay tribute to Howie who cultivated his win­ning techniques under Knute Rocknc from 1926 to 1930. 
Coming events: TOM BRADLEY '30 and JOE G.\LL.\GHER '54 are co-chairmen of the Annual Communion Dinner scheduled for Dec. 6. Tom \vill also be chairman once again for the Annual Retreat coming up In late January. 
—Frank J. Reidy '55, Secrefary 
OMAHA AND COUNCIL BLUFFS 

The Club sponsored a golf stag Sept. 6 for all members, students and their fathers at the Omaha Country Club Gun Shack. 
Starting this month the Club will sponsor a monthly luncheon at the Commodore Hotel on the second Wednesday of each month. Through this luncheon we hope to encourage N D men in the area to get together on a regular basis and enjoy a greater camaraderie. 
—Robert O. Brown *55, SecreJary 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. 

One of the best picnics in years was held Aug. 3 at Ellison Park under the able direction of TOM KEEGAN. Little remained from the truckloads of peanuts, pop, beer and charcoal. What was left was adeptly auctioned off by GENE YUR­GEALITIS, Club pres., thereby keeping the Club solvent. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1968 

Our former secretary, BOB DEWEY, was flagged 
down at the urport as he was about to take off 
for Brazil. Annual notice of dues went out the 
previous month with Bob's return address. The 
reply was devastatinj?, and resulted In an unex­
pected avalanche of diecks for Bob. Afeanwhlle, 
our Treasurer, DICK DELMONTE, was Issuing 
scrips. 
Credit another goal for JACK NYE DUFFEY, 
chairman of Freshman Orientation, for having 
done another eloquent performance with this 
fall's freshmen (and parents). Well done. Jack! 
JERRY CURRAN, vice-pres. and chairman of 
the entertainment committee, is overseeing plans ­
for a stag affair at the Towne House for an ND 
game to be televised live. Stag affair chairman 
has not been selected yet—any volunteers? 
Plans for the annual raffle tickets are in the 
air; the pnze—a weekend In Los Angeles to cheer 
for ND vs. Southern Cal. 
—Thomas E, Peterson '63, Secretary 
ftOMS = 

Rome's Notre Dame Hospitality Center is open 
daily from noon to nine. Address: Largo Bran­
caccio 82, Tel: 730002. All comers welcome. 
Spring-summer guests have included JOE DRLNANE '3D; JIM PETERS and CHARLES KREBS '70; Rev. MARTIN DEVEREAUX '56; 
R. E. LANGLOIS '41; Sistets MARIA A. WER­NER, MARY R. DUNLEAVY and EiULY VELDE CSC; Dr. BILL D'ANTONIO of the faculty with family; AUDREY SORRENTO '63; in-laws of JOHN CLARK '58; LOUIS DeLIA '64; MICHAEL De PADRO '55; parents of PAUL KELLY '67 and DAVE '71; Sister IG­NATIUS RSM '57; daughter of ALFRED MUELLER '25; sister of MARTIN CARROLL '58; daughter of ART CAREY '35; SCOTT RENEAU '69; grandson of "BUCK" SHAW '21; 
J. KEHOE '67; Sisteis ANNE MARTI.N'A SSJ '49 and J. M. SCHWANN '67; sister of Bro. RAYMOND DUFRESNE CSC; JACK SHEEHAN '46; Sr. LEO H.ACKiLANN CPPS '63; IAN DEC '69; JOHN O'CONNOR '68; DAN DONNELLEY '68; Bro. LAWRENCE STEWART CSC '60; Sr. STEPHEN RING OSB '66; Bro. LOYOLA CHRISTOPH '36; TOM MAUS '57 and wife; ER­NESTO SOL '67; TOM McGINNIS '63; JOHN HORNEY '67; JOHN LEONARD '53 and wife; LUKE KELLY '35 and wife; R. CONNESS '31 and wife; Dr. JAMES VANDERBOSCH '47 and family; Dr. JIM CARBERRY of the faculty; sister of JOHN KANE '63 and PETER '66; fnend of JOHN PERGINE '68. 
—Vince McAloon '34, Secretary 
ST. JOSEPH VAUEY ^^ ^ INDIANA 

ActlWtics for the Club for the past few months have been varied and many. Universal Notre Dame Night saw the Installation of this year's president, WILLIAM FARABAUGH and the retirement of '67 president, ROBERT MICHAUD. Other offi­cers elected were JEROME KEARNS, vicc-prcs.; GEORGE MURRAY, trcas.; and WILLIAM KILLILEA, sec 
The annual spring football game, now knot\-n as the Blue-Gold Game, was held this year despite bad weather which held down the crowd. The Club's scholarship trust fund gained substantially 
from the receipts of the game, chairmaned by 
Dan Osberger. 
A new e\*ent, a get-acquainted dance, hdd 
June 15 was poorly attended; however, those who 
came had a good time and arc anxious to do it 
again. We were honored with the presence of 
DICK ROSENTHAL, National Alumni Fkcndent, 
and his wife Matylyn, and BERNIE BAUER, 
Indiana State Representative, and his wife. NORM 
COOKE did a great job as chaitmaa of the 
dance. 
In July the Club had a family picnic supporting 
South Bend's Introibo Program, a summer educa­
tional program for underprivileged children. 
—Bill Killtlea 'tO, Secrdary 
SAN DIEGO, CAUF. 

Kfonthly luncheons, bi-monthly newsletter and 
preparations for a. new membership ftircctory are 
recent accomplishments of the Club. Particular 
credit for this goes to membership sec TIM 
HINCHY '61, whose Initiative and inventiveness 
are largely responsible for these developments. 
The Club's first monthly luncheon was held at the Kings Inn in San Diego July 18, and was well received. Those attending were treated to a discussion led by pres. CLEM O'NEIL '56 va various aspects of life at Notre Dame. 
Next on the Club's agenda was the always pop­
ular dinner dance held Aug. 2, which saw a fine 
turnout of thirty members and wives for an 
evening of dining and dancing. Thanks to chair­
man MARV RICKLING for putting together » 
most enjoyable evening. 
The month of June, witnessed the annual **State of the University" address given by Clem 0*NeiI. Clem ga\'e a most interesting resume of his trip to the University and then the evening was topped off with a San Diego Charger *'HI-Lites*' movie. 
With luck the Club's new updated membership directory will be out by football time *68— possibly In time lor the September Steak Fry and student kickoff. 
—C/ossen Cramtn '63L, Corresportdmg Seaefory 
^^ ^ SPOKANE, WASH. 
Club members and their wives entertained present and pn»pectlve students at a steak fry July 2!>. The affair was staged on the cxtenuve grounds of the residence of Club Pres. DICK ST. JOHN '56 who, with his lovely infe Fat, hosted the event. 
Entertainment was provided by Dave Moyer, an accomplished singing guitarist from Gonaga 
U. Attending the very enjoyable affair were the following members: DAVE BATTLE '62, JOHN HESKETT '63, Dr. BOB JOHNSON '41, Dr. BOB ALAHER '35, Capt. IX)N McALLISTER '60, LARRY MONTAG '53, BERNIE SMYTH '55 and JOE WALSH '14. Students attending WTre BILL ETTER '72, BOB MINNK '72, MIKE ORIARD '70, JOHN RUDOLF '70 and NICK SCARPELLI '70. 
Flans arc being made for the annual Football TV Party for the Michigan State game Oct. 26. It will be at the home of one of the Club mem' bers, and will include refreshments between halves. 
—Joe Wolsh '14, Secy-Treasurar 

^^ ^ TERRE HAUTE, IND. ^^ ^ 
The Club planned the annual **Back To Notre Dame Dinner" for students from Teire Haute 
who win be going back to the Caapoi tUi bSL 
This inchidcs MHCE. ELORED, KEVIN Me-
CARTHY. DAVE SULUVAN, FRED CHRIST­
MAN and JOHN KELLY. The tEmier was 
Sept. 9. FRED CHRISTBIAN, pot picadcnt, 
PRsented a foodaB antograidKd by the '67 team 
to Father RoguB (Cbb chapUa) «d» took it 
back to die boys at Cibaolt ScbooL Afao^ the 
AU Saints Grade School football team received 
an autographed football from FREO CBUST­
MAN on behalf of the ND ChA of Tene Haute. 
MYRON BUSBY JR '63, past lemtary and 
vice-president, was appointed diiectoc oif admis­
sion for St. Mary^-the-Woods College In Terre 
Haute. 
JOHN J. BOYER '49, past secretary and nce­
prcsident, is now personnel diiettoe of National 
Chemical Distilling Coip., 99 Paxk Ave., NYC. 
—Jim Boyer, Publicity Chotrman 

A new slate of officers was announced at Univeisal ND Night. JERRY OWINGS returns ai pnaSdent, FRANK WALLMEYER as vice-president, JOE­LANGE as treasurer and FRANK CARFIN as Chib secretary. Former coundhnan ROBERT HABENICHT was the recipient of the "Man of the Year" award. His son Chris will attend ND in the fall. 
Freshman Send-Off was Aug. 16. Area Alumni met with three new students who will matriculate in September. They are Chris Habcnicht, Donald Lewis and Joe Stankus. 
Thirty-five Club memben will attend the Navy-ND football game in Philadelphia Nov. 2. The number of Alumni in the metropolitan area has now grown to 73. 
Art I^rscgliian's visit to Richmond in April w-as the highlight of the season. A Club dinner with Coach Rurseghian preceded his speaking engage­ment at the West End Catholic Men's Association. Even fans of '*Bear" Bryant were won over by Ara's charm. 
^^ronk Carpm '62, Staetary 
WASHINGTON, D.C. ^ ^ 

In case %re neglected to report in our last column, the following Club officers were elected last March: RAYMOND RAEDY, pres.; JACK LOWE, vice-pres.; PETE CANNON, treas.; and JOE UBBY, secretary. Elected to the Board of Governors were FRANK McCARTHY, BILL MIDDEN­DORF and JIM GAMMON. Rev. JOHN FORD was later elected chaplain. Unfortunately, JACK LOWE was transferred to Chicago and JOE CLANCY was elected to his office. 
June 19 the Club had a luncheon at Gosti's Restaurant with more than 30 members in at­tendance. As a result, this affair will be held monthly on the second Tuesday beginning in September. If any Alumnus is in Washington on these days, he is welcome to attend. Gusti's is at IS37 M St. NW in do%nitown Washington. 
July 14 the Club had its family picnic at Res-ton, Va. Over 100 persons were in attendance, ficnic Chairman PAT KANE «ras our only Vitality of the day, suffering a broken collarbone during a touch football game. 
The Club Golf Oudng was July 26 at Wash-ii«ton County Club. Chairman FRANK BEY­TAGH headed op this affair. 
—Raymond Kaedy, 'SI, Presitfent 

Centra/—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Secre­Greater J#tanr—William J. Mazanec 
ALABAMA CONNECTICUT 
tary), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, '48, 5600 S.W. 85th St . Miann. 
John A. O'Brien, Jr., '51, 2133 Connecticut Valley—frank W. Lane 
Calif. 93721 Fla. 33143 
Vcstridge Dr., Biimingham, Ala. '54. 260 Oak St., Wapping, Conn. 
Los Angeles—^John J. Stewart '59, iVorl* / ^ — Robert W. ScheDen­
35216 06087 
20324 Reaza PI., Woodland Hills, betg, '48, 6842 San Sebastian Ave, 
Fairfield County—William Harrington 
Calif. 91364 JacksonviUe, Fla. 32217 
ALASKA Jr. '48, 29 Waverly Rd., Darien, 
iVor/Atrn—William Sherman '49, 430 Palm Bemtk Coaaly-James P. Kintz 
John S. Hellenthal '35. Box 941, Conn. 06820 
Mission, San Rafael, Calif. 94901 '54, c/ o Atlantis Enterprises Inc., 
Anchorage, Alaska 99501 Naugatuct Valley—Thoaas K. Hub­
Orange County—^Thomas J. Getzing-Atlantis, Fla. 33460 
bard '56, Box 84 Sooth St., Litch­
cr, '53. 2323 Almita, Fullcrton, Pensacola—William L. Soule Jr 
Calif. &2631 P.O. Box 8, F^nsacob, Fla. 3! 
ARIZONA field. Conn. 06759 
Ne-M Have*—Dr. Robert T. Warner, Phoenix—John P. Moran '59. 3519 W. 
Sacramento—Eugene V. Pongratz '53, St. Petetsburf-Tampa — Mark E. 
'S3, 850 Choate Ave., Hamden, Gardenia. Phoenix, Ariz. 85021 1024 42nd St., Sacramento, Calif. Hooney, 'Ss, 452S Gaines Rd.. 
Conn. 06514 riirjon—Michael M. Sophy, '57. 1625 95819 Tampa, Fla. 336II 

N. Pavo PI., Tuc»n, Ariz. 85705 DELAWAKE 
San BiVjo—Clement J. O'Neill '56, 
GEORGIA 

4825 AUicd Rd., San Diego, Calif. Paul N. Qemens, 827 Woodsdale Rd., 
ARKANSAS 92120 Wibnington, DeL 19809 ..ftfrnfo—James A. Ekhelbetgcr '63, 880 Oakdale Rd. NX., Adanta, 
Fort Smith—James A. Gillier, '48, San Jose—Theodore Sobicralski '54, 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA Ga. 30303 
3715 Free Ferry Rd., Fort Smith, 4822 Pepperwood Way, San Jose, J. Raymond Raedy '62, 5619 Johnson 
Atlt. 72901 Calif. 95124 HAWAn 
Ave., Bethesda, Md. 20034 

£it(fc Roci—James E. Madigan, '43, Albert Lam '57, Chaminadr CoOege 
COLORADO 
4617 Crestwood, Little Rock, Ark. FLOIUDA of Honotuhi, 3140 Waiibe Ave., 
Colorado Springs—^Maj. Raymond J. Central — John D. Bowen Jr '4S, Banohdn, Bawau 96816 72207 
Bubick '54. Qtrs. 6454-E, USAF 1201 Glastonbetry Rd., Maithnd, CALIFORNIA Academy, Colo. 80840 Fla. 32751 
IDAHO 

BaiersfieU—Htibtn J. Aiupach '58, Denver—John R. Bruno '64, 1190 S. Fl. Lauderdale — Wilfiam L. Daily Fmncis H. Hicks, '49, 1180 Phelpi 6512 - Desmond . gj_^ Bakersficld, '28, 818 SE 4th St., Ft. Lauderdale, Crcle, MbuntuB Houte^ Idaho 
Colorado Blvd., Denver, Colo. 
CaUf. 93308 Fla. 33301 83647 
80222 

ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1968 
Idaho Fans — James M. Brady. '29. 
P.O. Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho 83401 
ILLINOIS 

Aurora — Eugene G. Griffin '57, Murphy & Griffin, 340 N. Lake St., Aurora, lU: 60506 
Central iUinoii—Albert O. Ect, Jr., '58, Old Jadtsomille Rd., Spring­field. lU. 
CAiVoeo—Joseph J. Archibald Jr '50, 942 Columbian, Oak Park, HI. 60302 
I>«o/ur—John F. Dunn '58, 523 Sheffield Dr. Decatur, III. 62526 
Eastern 111,—Alaurice F. Stauder '41, 26 Lake Shore Dr. Danville, 111. 61832 
Fox Valley — George R. Schmidt. '29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, 111. 60120 /o;i<r«—Richard E. McHugli. '43, 
R.R. 2, Manhattan, HI. 60H2 

McHenry County — Leo J. Powers '25. 315 \Var\*-ick Lane, Cr>-stal Lake, HI. 60014 
Peoria — William H. Slotzcr '56, 5936 Shcnvood Dr., Peoria, HI. 61614 
QuaJ Ci(i"«—Bernard J. Hank Jr '51, 1812 37th St. Ct., Molinc, HI. 61265 
RoMord—Donald S. Doherty '57, 1904 Belmont Blvd., Rockfotd, HI. 61103 
Rock River Valley—James E. Dixon '64, 121 E. First St., Dixon, III­61021 
Southern Cook County — Robert N. Caffarelli, '55, 20851 Sparta Lane, Olj-mpia Fields, lU. 60461 
INDIANA 

Calumet District—Thomas S. Gozdecki Jr '58, 8106 Holunan .\vc., ilun­ster, Ind. 46321 
Eastern Indiana—^Da\*id D . Wilson '54. 116 S. High St., Hartford Git}-, Ind. 47248 
BWar*—James E. Hayes '49, 1715 E. Jackson Blvd., Elkliart, Ind. 46514 
Fort Wayne—Ronald L. Sowers '60, 1630 W. Goldspur Dr., Fort Wayne, Ind. 46808 
Indianapolis — Robert E. Kane '50, 4715 N. Pcnns>'lvania, Indianapolis, Ind. 46205 
Michigan City — C. Michael Caulcy '52, 201 Earl Rd., Michigan Cit}-, Ind. 46360 
St. Joseph Ko/Jo^-William N. Fara­baugh '51, 301 St. Joseph Bank Bldg., Soutli Bend, Ind. 44601 
Terre Haute — John E. Christen '60, 710 Ohio, Terre Haute, Ind. 47801 
Tri-Stale — Robert E. Griffin '57, In­dian Industries, 817 Maxwell Ave., £\*ans\'illc, Ind. 47711 
IOWA 

Burlington—Vcm H. Brinck '48. 501 
N. Sixth, Burlington, Iowa 52601 
Des Moines—Joseph Btsignano '59, 2821 Patricia Dr., Des Moines, Iowa 50322 
Dubuque—LouU P. Pfeiler '64, 555 Fischer Bldg., Dubuque, Io\va 52001 
Stoux'Land — Raymond B. Duggan, '43, 3244 Jackson, Sioux City, Iowa 51109 
KANSAS 

Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin. '49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas 66611 So/ina—Albert J. SlcLean. '31, 1410 Highland Ave., Salina, Kans. 47401 Wichita—Vim. T. Davitt. '56, 204 Bitting Bldg., Wicliita, Kan. 67202 
KENTUCKY 

John N. Zufelt '57, 1723 Deer Lane, LouisviUe, Ky. 40205 
LOUISIANA 

Kew Orleans—James D. Carricre '62, 2436 Joseph Ct., New Orleans, La. 70115 
Northern Louisiana—^Dr. Edward R. Morgan, '44, 803 Jordan St., Shieveport, La. 71101 
MAINE 

Jess F. DcLois '42, R.FJD. 2, Brans-Mick, Iblaine 04011 
MARYLAND 

BuZ/imorf—Donn B. Duffy '55, 4304 Nortvood Rd., Baltunore, Md. 21218 
MASSACaiUSETTS 

Berkshire County—James J. O'Brien Jr '65, Western 2ilass. Supply Inc., 117 4th St., Pittsiield, Mass. 01201 
Borto«—Richard W. Murphy '58. 540 Granite St., Braintree, &bss. 02184 Pioneer Valley — William A. Hurley, '28, 55 Maplewood Terrace, Spring­field, ilass. 01106 
36 
MICHIGAN 
Bolile Cr«Jr—Raymond R. Allen '40, 409 Orchard PI., BatUc Creek, Mich. 49017 
Berrien County — Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, NBes, Mich. 49120 
Blue Water District — William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. 48060 
Dearborn—Ra>-mond H. De Fauw '47, 6100 Oakman Blvd., Dearborn, Mich. 48126 
B</roi/—Daniel J. Kelly '57, 1201 Indian Mound W., Birmingliam, Mich. 48010 
Hint—Emery A. Sherwttod, '38, 7416 Gillette Rd., Lot 69, Flushing, Mich., 48433 
Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn. '40, Wright & Zinn, Michaels Bldg. Ironwood, Mich. 49938 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan 
Mr. John TuUy '61, 2504 Albert Dr.. S.E., Grand Rapids, Jlicli. 49506 
Jackson—Jasncs A. LeFere '61, 3002 
W. Morrell, Jackson. Mich. 49203 
Kalamazoo—Thomas O. McKinlej', 1554 Academy, Kalamazoo, Alicli. 49007 
Lanime—Da\-id J. O'Leary '53, 403 Bartlett St., Lansing, Mich. 48915 Monroe—Afark S. Laboe *64, 311 Colonial Dr., Monroe, Mich. 48161 
Muskegon — Stanley R. Tyler, Jr., '58, 2211 Reneer St., iluskegon, Mich. 49441 
Saginaw Valley—Eugene J. Gasc Jr. '56, 2765 Claybum Rd., Saginaw, Mich. 48603 
Top of Michigan — Edward L. Molo­ney '17, Bradner Lodge, Cheboy­gan, Mich. 49721 
MINNESOTA 
Twin Cities—Albert D. Eilers, '53, 1021 La Salle Ave., Afinncapolis, Minn. 55403 
MISSISSIPPI 
P. Nicholas "Nick" Harkins '63. 4359 Brook Dr., Jackson, Miss. 39206 
MISSOURI 
Kansas City—^William F. Ungashick, '43, 3954 Central St., Kansas City, Mo. 64111 
St. Louis—^John R. Powers Jr '53, 1013 Tempo Dr., Crevc Coeur, Mo. 63141 
MONTANA 
Robert T. O'LeanS '54. 2920 Floral Blvd., Butte, Mont. 59701 
Billings — Thomas L. Doran Jr '47, 1810 Westwood Dr., Billings, Mont. 59102 
NEBRASKA 
Omaha and Council Bluffs—^James P. Kinecn. '59, 508 S. 57th St., Omaha Neb. 63106 
NEVADA 
Northern Nevada — Michael Monte­btici '61, 77 W. 5th, Apt. 7, Reno, Nev. 89503 
NEW JERSEY 
Central — Howard J. Gillespie '34, 282 Garrett Rd., Mountainside, NJ 07092 
New Jersey Shore — Richard A. Cor­dasco '50, 143 Garden Rd., Shrews­bury, NJ 07701 
New Jersey — William H. Crosby '61, c/o Eastman-Dillon, Union Securi­ties & Co., 1 Cliase Alanhattan Plaza, NYC 10005 
South Jersey — James B. Carson, '56. 624 Clinton Ave., Haddonficld, NJ 08033 
NEW MEXICO 
John L. Keller '57. 6000 Rogers NE, Albuquerque, N M 87110 
NEW YORK 
Albany—^Richard B. Cunningham '57, 192 Hudson River Rd., Waterford, KV 12188 
Bufalo—John F. La Duca '36, 179 Oxford Ave., Buffalo, N'T 14209 Central — Kevin J. Ryan '61, 400 Northlicld Way, Camillus, NY 13031 
Golden Circle—Jama F. McVay, '42. 49 Parkway Lane, Bradford, Pa. 16701 
Mid-Hudson VaUey — Dr. Henry W. Fletcher '50, 53 Adriance Ave., PoughkeepsTe, N.Y. 12601 Mohawk Valley—John F. Woeppel '53, 29 S. Richfield St., Mohawk, N.y. 13407 
New York CiVy—Stephen W. Mulvey '51, Room 2703. 1270 Avenue of Americas, New York City 10020 
Rochester—Eugene W. Yuigealitis '57, 207 London Rd., Webster, NY 14580 
Schenectady—^Robert A. Lupe '55, 875 Westhoha Rd., Schenectady, N.Y. 12309 
Svracuse—Sec "Central New York." 
Southern Tier — Frank F. O'Brien, '34, 201 Fcdetaaon Bldg., Elmira, NY 14900 
Triple Cities — Frank M. Linchan, '45, 2 Elizabeth St., MR 97, Bing­bamton. NY 13905 
NORTH CAROLINA 
Donald J. Kelsey, '48, 1115 West-ridge Rd., Greensboro, NC 27410 
NORTH DAKOTA 
William Daner, '53, 1106 S. Highland Acres, Bismarck, NO 58501 
OHIO 

Akron—^James M. Keegan *59, 576 Letchworth Dr., Akron, Ohio 44303 
Canton—Thomas J. Seaman. '53, 402 Downtowner Bide., 619 N. Market Ave., Canton, Ohio 44702 
Cincinnati—^Lawrvnce H. K>^e '60, One E. 4th St., Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 
Cleveland-Victor J. Gulyassy '42, 412 Women's Federal Bldg., 312 Supe­rior Ave., N.E., Cleveland, Ohio 44114 
Co/«m6ar—Frank J. Bettendorf '59, 2147 Elgin Rd., Columbus, Ohio 43221 
DaytoR—Ronald F. Henne '57, 4353 Brumbaugh Blvd., Dayton, Ohio 45416 
Hamilton—iTerome A. Ryan, '41. 353 
S. "D " St., Hamilton, Ohio 45013 Mansfield—James J. Jurgens '33. 371 Wood St., Mansfield, Ohio 44903 
Northwestern — Walter R. Bernard, '30, 433 Johnson Ave., Celina, Ohio 45822 
Sandusky — Richard C. Hohler '47, 2603 Eastwood Dr., Sandusky, Ohio 44879 
Tiflin — Fred J. Wapier, '29. 152 Sycamore St., Tiffin. Ohio 44883 ro/crfo—Thomas J. Welly '55, 2043 Mt. Vernon. Toledo, Ohio 43607 
Youngstown—Eirunct J. Tyrrell '60, 1002 Union Nad. Bank Bldg., Youngstown, Ohio 44503 
OKLAHOMA 

Oklahoma City — Eugene J. Schmit '55, 4804 N.W. 74th St., Oklahoma City, Okla. 73132 
Tuiia—Farris P. Saffa '40, P.O. Box 3165, Tulsa, Okla. 74101 
OREGON 

Ra>Tnond J. Martin '50. 11450 S.W. Berkshire St., Portland, Ore. 97225 
PENNSYLVANIA 
Central Pennsylvania—Dr. George W. Katier, '41. U.S. Bank Bldg. Johnstown, Pa. 15901 
Erie — Richard T. McCormick. '55, 4425 Cherrjr St., Erie, Pa. 16509 Harrisburg—^Joseph Ellam '58, 4106 
Hillsdale Rd., Harrisburg, Pa. 17112. 
Lehigh Volley — NeU F. Kelly '48, 2417 Fauvicw St., Allentown, Pa. 18104 
Monongahela Valley—Louis W. Apone, '41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, Pa. 15417 Philadelphia—VSXML W . Kittredge, '58, 1500 Seven Pcnn Center Pkiza, Philadelphia, F ^ 19103 P;(tj6urgfc—Michael J. Boyle '57. 423 Bucknell St., Pittsbutsh. Pa. 15208 Scranton — Richard J. Jordan '51, 1102 Woodlawn Ave., Scranton, Pa. 18509 If i/it«-Barr«—Raymond J. Sobota '49, 760 Miners Bank BUg., Wilkes-Barrc, Pa. 18701 Williamsport — Joseph F. Orso, Jr., 
•55 P.O. Box 27. Williamsport, Pa. 17701 
RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS 
Thomas J. McHale '59, 45 Tangle-wood Dr., Cumberland, R.I. 02S64 
SOUTH CAROLINA 
Julian D. Michel '43. 26 Broad St., Charleston, S.C. 29401 
TENNESSEE 

CAaf/oRoofo—Robert J. Shocker '61, 509 Cherry St., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402_ 
Memphis — Joscpb S. Stgnaigo '48, 1687 Bryn Mawr Qfide, German­town, Tenn. '38038 
iVorW/<r — Wniiam J. Faimon. '54, 6705 Rodney Ct., Nashville, Tenn. 37205 
TEXAS 
Do/Jar—Robert S. Williams '59, 3522 Gillespie Apt. 1, DaUas, Tex. 75219 El Paso—CMS P. Momsen Jr. '49, 
4427 Oxford, EI I^so, Tex. 79903 
Houston — Christie S. Flanagan '60, 1915 Briarmead, Houston, Tex. 77027 
San Antonio—Lawrence L. Keough '61, 232 Seford, San Antonio, Tex. 78209 
UTAH 
WiUiam C. Allen '57, 652 Aloha Rd., Salt Lake City, Utah 84103. 
VIRGINIA 
A. Jerome Owings '60, 1727 Ross Bldg., Richmond, Va. 23219 
WASHINGTON 
Jpoione—Richard J. St. John '56, East 2003 37th Ave., Spokane, Wash. 99203 
Western—Thomas P. May, '55. 4237 85th Ave., S.E., Jlcrccr Island, Wash. 98OJ0 
WEST VIRGINIA 
Cyril M. Reich, '39, 903 S. Drew St., St. Albans, W. Va. 25177 Central — John D. Julian. '40, P.O. Box 2063, Clarksburg, W.Va. 26301 
Ohio K<j//ey—William J. Buch '59, 42 Lynwood Ave., Wheeling, W. Va. 26003 
WISCONSIN 
Fox River Valley—^John K. Gschwind '56, 319 E. Frances, Applcton, Wis. 54911 
Cr«n Bay—Harry B. Conlon '57, 308 Tower View Dr., Green Bay, Wis. 54301 
La CroHe—Robert J. Young '59, 311 First St., South, LaCrescent, Minn. 55947 
J/»Tri;;—Augustus H. Stange. '27. 102 
S. Prospect St., Merrill, Wis. 54452 
Milwaukee — Joseph A. Alesec '54, 5311 Allcnwood Lane, Hales Corners, Wis. 53130 
Northwest Wisconsin — Ben M. Siri­anni, Jr.. '60. 2719 Keith St., Eau Clau-e, Wis. 54701 
South Central — Thomas M. Hinkes, '51, 5414 Dorsett Dr., iladison. Wis. 53711 
WYOMING 
Patrick H. Mcenan, '49, Midwest Bldg., P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. 82601 
FOREIGN CLUBS 
Brazil — Thomas E. Carroll Jr '58, 14210 Alameda Ave., Miami Lakes, Fla. 33012 
Canada — Paid H. LaFramboise, '34, St. Hilaire Rouville Co., 212 Blvd. Richelieu, Quebec, Canada. 
CAiYe—Michael E. Curtin '61, In­dustrias "COIA" S.A.. Casilla 6-D, Vina Del Mar, Chile, South America. 
Colombia—^J. Ramon de la Torre '57, Calle 78. No. 8-02, Bogota, Co­lombia, South America. 
Ecuador—^Temistoclcs Tcran '49, Apartado 179, Quito, Ecuador. 
England—Ttoraid. C. Lueck '50, 99 Eaton Terrace, London SWI, £n­gbnd. 
Manila — Laurence J. Gotuaco, '54, 
P.O. Box 1152, Manib. Philippines. 
Mexico City—Richard C. Leon '44, Alonte Kamerum 225, Mexico 10, 
D.F. Mexico. Nicaragua—Noel Palkiis '49, Apar­tado 2119, Managua, Nicaragua. 
Northern European—Frank T. Mc­Guire '35. Managing Director, John Deere, S.A., tostfach 949, 69 Heidelberg, Germany. 
Pakistan—Kcv. Frank J. Burton CSC '33, P.O. Box 5. Notre Dame Col­lege, Dacca-2-, East Pakistan. 
Panama — Lorenzo Romagosa, '45, 
P.O. Box 830-F, Panama, Panama. Peru—Enrique Lulli, '45, Cuzco 440, L;ma, Peru. 
Puerto Rico—^Jidio Vizcarrondo, Jr., '56, P.O. Box 9004, Santurce, Puerto Rico 00938 
Rome — Vincent G. McAloon, '34, (Secretary), Palazzo Brancacdo, Largo Brancaccio, 82, Rome, Italy. 
San Salvador—Rolando Duartc F. *47. 71 Av. Norte 222, San Salvador, El Salvador, Central America Tokyo—Rev. Peter T. Moriwaki^ S.J., '65, Sophia University 7, Kiocho, Chiyodak, Tokyo, Japan. 
Venezuela—^Mervyn J. Gorman Jr. '39, Apartado 1651, Caracas, Ven­'czuela. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1963 

His Game, His Team, His School 
FOOTBALL'S WARRIOR 
Notre Dame football has always been something special. It is an enigma to some, a tradition to many, a Saturday afternoon spec­tacular to others, and a firsthand experience to few. 
People hear a lot about Notre Dame football. And they talk about it. It is the subject of thousands of printed words each year. It is an experience that does not compare with any oth­er because there is no other like it. The place. The student body. The spirit. The team. The aura. 

They are incomparable. And to be part of it is to be privileged. I was one of those lucky few. 
Those years are not dififictilt to recall. It was a late August after­noon when the plane touched down at the St. Joseph County Airport. Warm weather greeted you. For you summer had reached its conclusion. 
You checked in at Breen-Phil­lips Hall and familiar faces greet­ed you, reminding you of the 
By Tom Sullivan 

challenge that lay ahead. The evening meal conduded and Aia stood before you relating the de­tails of the schedule. It was sim­ple, straight talk. "You must out­hit, out-think and out-condition your opponent." The short, ro­bust man exuded confidence, tell­ing you what to expect and what would be expected of you. He reassessed your goals, detailed the methods for attaining them and concluded his welcome by pointing out that some of you would not make it. It was not 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1968 
new to you. It was football talk and you had heard the same words from the same man before. Still, it struck home. 
The sun was high and the weather warm as you passed through the gates of Cartier Field that first morning. It was an old feeling in a familiar place. You remembered it from past years. A frightening quiver grabbed your stomach and you uttered a prayer that it would not be unbear­able, that somehow you would be able to stand it. Ara's whistle caused it to begin. It was unceas­ing, relentless like the tide. Cal­istenics, grass drills, running, more grass drills. Up. Down. The ground absorbed you again and again. You tasted the familiar dust. It was barely under way and already your muscles cried out in protest. The buzzer whined. Sprints, grass drills, iso­metrics. Practice was hardly 15 minutes old and you began to wonder if you would make it. Whistles. The buzzer. Dummies. Sleds. You hit, strained, ran and hurt. Adding to your misery was the ever-present thought that you had to endure the agony once more before that day became an­other. 
It is a pain game, you re­minded yourself. But so much of it is in your mind. If you could just keep psyched up, somehow you would make it. And then it was afternoon. The warm humidity of the morning had given way to a dry, pene­
It's an enigma to some, a tradition to many, a Saturday spectacular to others and a firsthand experience to few. 
trating heat that broke a sweat with the slightest movement Again the whistle and you were asked to give effort you were cer­tain you no longer possessed. The morning routine was repeated and compounded, the only dif­ference being that it hurt twice as much. You felt as though the sleds and dummies had become extensions of your own body. The temptation to quit was al­ways there. 
There were people all around you. But you felt alone. You had to endure this alone. No one 
38 
;>yrv«.T<j.fC?/.<gY/ 
j-fC?/.< 
SWS BEhT mtH 
39 

else could help you. And so it went. The drills and routines be­came a cycle that you reflexed to day after day. "Sell out." "Throw your body." "Play with reckless abandon." You bled, sweat and hurt with one aim in mind: to win. They told you it was for Notre Dame and your­self as a man. You believed them. You knew that they were right but it still hurt. 
It was game-preparation week. Double sessions and torture were once more a thing of the past. You were strong and confident 
You reacted, ran and hit but your thoughts and feelings disappeared in the fury of controlled violence. 
and your thoughts lay solely in the goal. The cals, sprints and drills that earlier had come so hard had become second nature to you. You moved through prac­tice with a reassurance born of sacrifice and pride. The student body was back and Notre Dame came alive again. Your 6000 teammates had returned. It was a good feeling. The practices were spiced with the cadence of the band drilling in the adjacent field. The Notre Dame Spirit was out of hibernation. You were ready. 
It was Friday evening. To escape distraction, the team was lodged in the distant confines of Moreau Seminary. Earlier that evening you witnessed the elec­tric tension of the pep rally and you fidgeted your way through a John Wayne movie, always with the game in the back of your mind. Then you were alone. The long preparation was finished. It was to be left to effort, desire and execution — yours. 
Sleep came hard. You thought of injury, of victory, of defeat. You dwelled on the tradition. Your imagination came alive with visions of the Rock. You conjured up childhood memories of Guglielmi, Pietrosante, Shan­non. '64, the year just past is vivid with the magic of Huarte and Snow. Your thoughts drift­ed back to high school days when football was easy, fun. Everything you did turned out 

right. And you wondered about 
tomorrow. 

The call came at 8 am. You 
attended the team Mass concele­
brated by ten priests in the Semi­
nary Chapel. Then it was the 
pre-game meal and the final 
strategy review. You were ex­
cused from Saturday morning 
classes and Ara allowed you 
some time alone, to prepare. 
You sat in your dorm room and 
waited. 

It was noon and time to go. The huge concrete cavern that is Notre Dame Stadium greeted you with its fluttering banners and yellow brick facade. People watched and pointed as you ap­proached. A young boy bash­fully asked for your autograph. Your stomach tightened as you entered the quiet, somber atmo­sphere of the locker room. The muffled sounds emanating from the training room blended with the hum of the exhaust fans. The pungent odors of shoe polish, rubbing alcohol and stale sweat found their way to your nostrils. It was familiar and reassuring. The mats were spread across the 
"Take the game to them. Don't wait for them to come to you." The other coaches stood around grim-faced, nodding assent. 
floor and young men sprawled on them in various poses of strained relaxation and meditation. The signs were up on every wall. They carried the exhortations and thoughts that had become watch­words those past weeks. "PAY THE PRICE." "THE TRADI­TION OF NOTRE DAME WILL NOT BE ENTRUSTED TO THE TIMID OR THE WEAK." 
Telegrams and messages ar­rived continually. The Notre Dame Club of Grand Rapids wished success and victory. Joe Schumacher of Miami Beach couldn't make the game but sent his prayers. Little Mary Lou Michaels of Helena, Montana wanted you all to know that you were her favorite team. They came from every state, symbolic of the meaning of Notre Dame. You dressed quickly in gold stretch pants and the blue jer­sey. The knot in the pit of your stomach tightened. You had time to think, to feel your heart race and your body stiffen. You heard the clatter of 100 cleats on the hard floor. You were aware of the nervous, hushed conver­sation around you. But you had your own thoughts. You won­dered about the heat, the refs, the wind. Any one or all of those things could affect the outcome. 
This was what you had waited so long for, what had demanded so much of you. The game. Some said it was just a game. They did not know how much you had spent for this game. Your opponent. He knew. As you stared at the freshly-painted gold helmet in your hands, you knew 
It's an experience like no other. 
that he sat across the way pre­paring for you. You wondered if you had paid the price, if he had, who would be the stronger? 
Ara was speaking then in an excited, confident voice. "Take the game to them. Don't wait for them to come to you." The other coaches stood around grim-faced, nodding assent. They shared your tension. He recalled with you the spent effort and asked for more. This was it, he said. He led you in prayer and thrust you to the brink. It was 
NOTM e/UWE 4 8 

M 
here. The moment you had di­rected yourself toward for weeks. It was both the end and the be­ginning. Your opponent faced you a scant ten yards down the field. Your eyes met his. You saw the color of his hair, the lines in his face. You felt your heart in your throat and your stomach turn. 
The whistle knifed the air and it began. You propelled yourself into it. You reacted, ran and hit but your thoughts and feelings 
It is the spirit, the coaches, the team, the students and the place. It's excellence and pride. 
disappeared in the fury of the controlled violence. You were unaware of pain. Your entire being was focused on one end: to beat your opponent. Fleeting glances of faces, colors and num­bers became a montage as you spent yourself toward victory. 
The disciplined camaraderie of the huddle. The pop of leather. The strain of bodies. The noise of the crowd. The band. Voices. It was your experience. You hit again. You scored. They scored. Penalties. It happened so quick­ly. When it was meant to be, you came from behind to win. You felt the thrill of a Notre Dame victory. If it was in the cards, you lost. Your pride and dignity suffered. The locker room was the congratulations of Ara and the joyous din that fol­lowed, or it was the silent mantle of defeat tempered with the knowledge that reprieve lay only a week away. 
Notre Dame football is all of these things and more. It is the tradition, the spirit, the coaches, the team, the students, the people and the place. It is excellence and pride. There is nothing else like it. I know. 
Photos by Dick Stevens 

; llr.; PrandlJs P. (Mark ''^**> Microfilming & Photo. Lab. 
, tt«i»t>rial Library 
^Aiitre Dame, Ind. 46556 
fei-^-;vv.
% 
r >v 
University Calendar 

SEPT. 13j Freshman Orientation. 
14, Fr. Hesburgh's reception for parents of Freshmen. 16-17, Upperclassmen return. 18, Classes begin. 
21, Oklahoma-ND football game, home. Lou Rawls concert. 28, Purdue-ND football game, home. Harry Belafonte concert. 29, Sen. Strom Thurmond, lecture. 30, David Schoenbrun, lecture. OCT. 2, Debate on LSD, Dr. Timothy Leary vs. Dr. Sidney Cohen. 5, lowa-ND football game, Iowa. 
9, Soprano Marjorie Madey, con­cert. Library. 
11, Basketball Clinic conducted by Bill Russell. 
12, Northwestem-ND game, home. Concert by the Fifth Dimensions. 
13, Founder's Day Mass. 
17, Lecture, Jules Bergman. 

17-19, Alumni Board Meeting. 18, Homecoming dance. . 19, IlHnois-ND football game, home­
coming. Concert by The Rascals. 
25-26, National Education Conference. 26, Michigan State-ND, Lansing. 31, Blue Circle student trip departs 
for New York and Philadelphia for Navy-ND football game. 
NOV. 2, Navy-ND footbaU game, Phila­delphia. 
Next 
October 28 







