The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
mdke 
 Notre Dame 


NOTRE DAME 
ALUMNUS 
June-July • 1963 
. 
for 

Cemetery Ridge, Scene of Father Corby's absolution; 4 p.m.f July 2, 
1863. 

Peoce Light, 
GBUyshwgt 
Noire Dome tAaiS, 
Noon, June 29, 
1963. 

Special Insert: "What 
Freedom on 
the Campus: 
See Editorial p. 2, Student Slant p. 8, 
Fr. Hesburgh p. 9, Academic Freedom, 
pp. 28-45. 
J 


all... 
Patriotism: Notre Dame's Ail-American Tradition: See story p. 3, Man & Moment p. 6, U.N.D. Night '63, pp. 13-26. 
... with 
M, 

fimuess in the 

RIGH T Has This Man?" 
' 


as (jod 
gives us 


to see the right,,," 
Abraham Lincoln, Second Inaugural 
Vol. 41, No. 3 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., '41, Co/umnist 


ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Officers 
WILLIAM P. MAHONEY, JR., '38 
Honorary President OLIVER H. HUNTER, '43 Prenitent JoHX P. DEMPSEY, '4:9..Fund Vice-President WILLIAM H . FALLON", '37 
Club Vice-President 
PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY, '50 
Class Vice-President 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 
Executive Secretary 
Directors to 1934 
JOHN P. DEMPSEY, '49 Kidder, Peabody & Co. 123 Broad St., Philadelphia, PennsyK-ania 
PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY, '50 P.O. Box 5672 Minneapolis 17, Minnesota 
WILLIAM H . FALLON, '37 160 Pelham Road New Rochelle, New York 
OLIVER H . HU.NTER, '43 F.B.I., P. O. Box 23 New Castle, Pennsj-K-ania 
Directors to 1965 
ALBERT D . CASTELLINI, '24 506 First National Bank Bldg. Cincinnati, Ohio 
PHILIP J. FACCENDA, '51 1510 Ogden La Grange, Illinois 
PETER J. KER.NAN, JR., '49 661 Washington Road Grosse Pointe, Michigan 
APAM J. WALSH, '25* 
P. O. Box 349 Portland, Maine 
• Recently resigned under pressure of business. 
Directors to 1966 
GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR., '44 416 Burlington Avenue Bradley Beach, New Jersey 
PAUL I. FENLON, '19 141 Sorin Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
MORTON R. GOODMAN, '30 2415 Pilgrimage Trail LOS Angeles 28, California 
W. LANCASTER SMITH, '50 Dallas Athletic Club Building Dallas 1, Texas 

Chairmen of the 1963 Committees 
OLIVER H. HUNTER Executive WILLIAM H . FALLON Club Activities PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY Class Activities JOHN P. DEMPSEY ­
Alumni Fund, Foundation & Gifts PHILIP J. FACCENDA Admissions PETER J. KERNAN, JR.. 
..Placement & Counseling 

PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY' 
Inter-Alumni Affairs PETER J. KER.VAX, JR Public Relations ALBERT D . CASTELLI.NI 
—Religion & Citizenship WiLLUM H. FALLO.N AND JOHN P 
DEMPSEY. Nominations ALBERT D . CASTELLINI Budget & Finance PHILIP J. FACCENDA Athletics PETER J. KERNAN, JR Student Affairs 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the Univer^ty of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second elast mat­ter Oct. I, 1939, at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind. under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 
NOTRE OAME ALUMNUS 

JOHN BRUCE HARLAN, '49, Fholographer 


Sditoml Comment 
from your Alumni Secretary 
June-July, 1963 
 F. lAUGHLIN, 'M, Managing Editor BONNIE GAY, Sloff Writer 


FREEDOM ON THE CAMPUS 
PLEASE READ the special insert, "What Right Has This Man?" 
It ^vas prepared by Editorial Projects 
for Education in an effort to bring to alum­
ni of our colleges and universities a basic 
understanding ol the problem of academic 
freedom. Too often, instead of this under­
standing, institutions are faced separately 
with crises that rightly or wrongly invoke 
this principle, and too often tiift results are 
hysteria and antagonisms. 
Then please read, also, the scholarly 
article by Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C, 
which extends the ver}- competent treat­
ment of the E.P.E. project, and adapts the 
problem not only to the teaching profes­
sion but to the Catholic campus such as 
Notre Dame. 
If my own reactions are a criterion, you 
will be surprised at the recognition of limita­
tions expressed in the E.P.E. treatment. 
And you will perhaps be equally surprised 
by the lack of limitations at Notre Dame, 
as described by Fr. Walsh. 
^Ve believe the whole material is timely, 
and important, as the areas of inquiry and 
discussion spread rapidly in both higher 
education and the Church. 
No campus will be free from controversy. 
Baylor University closed Eugene O'Neill's "Long Day's Journey Into Night." The Notre Dame Theater chose it for its Spring production. Father Hans Kung, European theologian, gave a widely publicized talk on the Notre I5ame campus. He was denied permission to speak in Los Angeles. 
Closer home, and involving students, facult)-, and administration, was the spring controversy surrounding the SCHOLASTIC. Ultimately, the editors and the lay faculty advisor resigned. And Father Hesburgh sent a letter to all students during the Easter vacation, redefining the relationship between the students, faculty and administration. 

My reason for mentioning these instances is of course to indicate that all of us are subject to involvement in this intellectual unrest. 
But there are several other motives. One is that I am disturbed by a tendency on our campuses to treat academic freedom as though it were by itself something that precluded any further study. The result is that immaterial, irrelevant and incompetent matter has been given undue circulation by attaching the label of academic freedom. .And we encounter such phenomena as Wil­liam Saroyan emerging as the apostle of 
the family as the basic unit of society, and 
Cleveland Amory as the indignant spokes­
man attacking the flood of indecent litera­
ture on our newsstands and magazine racks. 
These things occur while theologians seem-* 
to be weakening family tics, and college 
faculties seem to be protecting writing of 
at least doubtful virtue. 
A second motive is to point out a belief 
that the true problem of academic freedom 
has not resided in most of the cases pur­
porting to involve it. The questions of 
responsibility, of authority, of good taste, •• 
of good judgment, of educational integrity, 
of religious nature, have been far more the 
issue than the right of individuals to ex­
press their personal beliefs in the frame­
work of free inquir)-. Certainly, in the in­
stances cited, there was little of the implica­
tion of the real concept of academic free­
dom that is supported to protect the ex­
pert in a field from unreasonable suppres­
sion of scholarly opinions arrived at in the fi 
course of progress and learning in that field. 
A third motive is the communications 
we receive from alumni concerning expres­
sions that emanate from faculty or ad­
ministration members. Usually the writer 
is in substantial disagreement. But the im­
plication is that economic, or political views, 
or membership in organizations reflecting ^ 
these, ought to be prohibited because of the 
conflict of views with the writer. Unfortu­
nately, the writers appear on both sides. 
It is in some of these areas that there is 
a bona fide status involving academic free­
dom, and alumni should understand the 
distinctions. 
All factors in education, including ¥ authority and guidance, must be admin­istered with judgment and integrity. But it is my opinion that in those actions re­ferred to, great consideration was given to all the conditions explicit and implicit, and the decisions — even though they seem contradictory — were justified if a proper understanding of the whole procedure" is '•' invoked. 

I mention them to point up the impor­tance of alumni understanding of this in­creasingly frequent subject in the academic world. We will face it even more as the problems of education and religion intensi­fy and overlap. We should try to fortify d ourselves against a lack of information and ^ understanding, a lack upon which prejudice and emotional excess thrive. 
— J.E.A. 

"With cAorify for all . , ." NOTRE DAME'S PATRIOTS TO BE REMEMBERED AT GEHYSBURG FIELD MASS ON SATURDAY, JUNE 29 
.. . (No advance fee required; just send reservations: Alumni Office, Notre Dame, Indiana.) 
NOTRE DAME CLASS REUNIONS will take place JUNE 14-15- 16, 1963 The march is on ... to the NOTRE DAME CAMPUS for the WEEKEND beginning 
June 29, at Gettysburg National Park, Pa. 
The Mass will be at Noon, E.D.T., at the Peace Light, centrally lo-ated on the Gettys­burg battlefield. It will be celebrated by Bishop Leach of Harrisburg, Pa. His Emi­nence Francis Cardinal Spellman of New York will give the sermon. 
Guests of Father Hesburgh for the occa­sion will include sur\'iving relatives of Fathers William Corby and James Dillon, t\vo of the eight Notre Dame priests who ser\'ed as chaplains with the .'\rTOies of the Potomac and Cumberland in the Civil War; various ranking members of the Chaplain Corps and the -American Hierarchy; Veter­ans .Administration chief John S. Gleason, '36, representing President Kennedy; former President Dwight D. Eisenhower, LL.D., '61; and many others. 
Earlier, at about 10 o'clock, a new plaque will be dedicated at the statue of Father Corby on the battlefield, at the site of his historic general absolution for the men of the Irish Brigade, Arranging for the plaque, which will call attention to Father Corby's ties with Notre Dame, is a committee of Philadelphians headed by Charles Conley, Clifford Prodehl, and William Whiteside. Committees from the Notre Dame Clubs of Baltimore and Harrisburg are working with Father Thomas O'Donnell on other arrange­ments. 
Most Notre Dame Clubs within easy driving distance are planning outings and picnics on the battlefield to round out the Notre Dame ceremonies. .All alumni and their families are in\-ited. 

w .« 
s^?^.­

CELTIC CROSS overlooks the Irish wolfhound symbid of the 88th (later merged with the 69th) New Yorit Regiment of the Irish Brigade, erected as a memorial to that unit's bravery on the battlefieM at Gettysburg National Park, Pa. 
Notre Dame Alumnui, June-July, 1963 
 THE UsivERSiTi-'s 121->ear history, 

I
N thousands of Notre Dame men have been .mobilized in military service and hundreds have died in that service — "with malice toward none, with charity for all" — in the cause of "Patriotism, Notre Dame's AU-American Tradition" — a higher patriotism that blends the causes "God, Country and 
IN CASE YOU WERE WONDERING 

Notre Dame." 
It is to honor those men and dramatize their contribution that more than 100 Notre Dame Clubs have already held their ob­servances of Universal Notre Dame Night and others are being planned. 
These tributes will culminate in a field Mass and Notre Dame outing on Saturday, 
FRIDAY, JUNE 14: 

General Program 
REGISTRATION at the LAW 
SCHOOL — All Day 
(At Ihe general registration, a UNIT FEE of S20 will be collected which wilt cover all basic reunion expenses: class cop and in­signia; room for two nights in a residence hall; green fees for the golf tournament, open houses, tours, etc.; soft drinks, snacks, etc., at the hoi] bars; and the following meals — Friday night class dinner, box lunch on Saturday, and the Reunion Banquet on Saturday evening.) 
GOLF TOURNAMENT* STARTS FRIDAY — (Monogram Golf Day" oil day Thursday, June 13, for Monogram Club members only, hteodquarters in Alumni Holi. Coclctoils and Dinner Meeting, Morris Inn.] 
TOURS of new campus (Memorial Library, Sfepan Center, Math-Computer BIdg., Radiation Lab, etc.) all day. 
CLASS DINNERS and Meetings at about 7 p.m., Friday. 
SATURDAV. JUNE 15: 
CLASS MASSES at Hall Chapels and photographs at Library. 
GOLF TOURNAMENT* and Campus tours all day. 
PRESIDENT'S LUNCHEON for the 25-year Class. North Dining Hall. 
BOX LUNCH for other Classes. 
COLLEGE OPEN HOUSES: 3:30­
4:30 p.m.. Arts & Letters, Busi­ness Administration, Engineering, Science, etc. 

Class Program 
CLASS REGISTRATION at the fol­lowing residence halls: Classes of 1913 (L), 1918 (XLV), 
1923 (XL), & 1943 (XX), 

Alumni Hall. Class of 1928 (XXXV), Lyons Hall. Classes of 1933 (XXX) & 1938 
(XXV), Morrissey Hall. Class of 1948 (XV), Howard Hall. Classes of 1953 (X) & 1958 (V), 
Dillon Halt. 

FRIDAY NIGHT 
CLASS DINNERS in the tentative locations: Golden Jubilee Class of 
& Class of 1918 "Traditions" DINNER, 
 following 
 1913 (L)  (XLV):  Golfer's 

Lounge, The Morris Inn. Class of 1923 (XL): DINNER, South Bend Country Club. 
Class of 1928 (XXXV): DINNER, Privofe Dining Room, Morris Inn. Class of 1933 (XXX): DINNER, 
Mahogany Room, The Morris Inn. 

Silver Jubilee Class of 1938 (XXV): DINNER, New North Dining Hall. 
Class of 1943 (XX): Buffet DIN­NER, Alumni Court. 
Class of 1948 (XV): Buffet DIN­NER, New North Dining Hall. Class of 1953 (X): Buffet DINNER, 
South Dining Hall. Class of 1958 (V): Buffet DINNER, South Dining Hall. 
• GOLF COURSE REGULATIONS still require long trousers. 
ANNUAL ALUMNI BANQUET: Saturday at 6 p.m., NEW NORTH DINING 
HALL . . . SUNDAY, JUNE 16: ANNUAL ALUMNI MASS, 10 a.m. at Sacred Heart Church. 
Speaking of television, what about 




Notre Dame's 'Emmy* Candidates 
T
HE RECENT ANNUAL awards Competition of the National Television Academy re­minded us that Notre Dame men have been associated vnth many of the "Emmy" nom­inees gradually brightening the landscape in Newton Minow's "vast wasteland" of TV. 
This year's "Emmy" candidates included several consistently excellent shows with a touch of Irish influence, running the gamut from comedy to drama to music to docu­mentaries: The Defenders, CBS-T\''s taut courtroom thriller starring E. G. Marshall, which has copped most of the drama awards for tivo years running; ABC-T\''s McHale's Navy, rollicking saga of W.W. II PT boats in the South Pacific, starring Ernest Borgnine, nosed out by Dick Van Dyke for 
top honors in comedy; The Voice of Fire­stone, perennially fine musical \'ariety offer­ing, which keeps getting bumped off the airways by time conflicts in spite of televi­sion's most loyal audience; and Walt Disney's 
Wonderful World of Color on NBC-TV, always a top contender among children's programs. 
Notre Dame men who have worked on these and other TV hits include: 
M. CLAY ADAMS, '26, outstanding writer-producer-director and champion among Notre Dame's Emmy collectors. .•\s manager of production operations for The Defenders, Clay oversees all the shooting details which have made the legal drama such an authen­tic semidocumentary. Except for Naked City, The Defenders is the only show largely filmed in actual locales in New York. 
JOEFLYNN,'46 World's Greatest Second Banana? 

Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 

Controversial subject matter and shooting on location combine with Broadway star Marshall's acting to give the series an ex­citing documentarj- atmosphere, and Clay Adams is an old hand with award-winning documentaries, including the all-time wnncr among war documents, NBC's Victory at Sea, for which he ^vas film director. Richard Rodgers' magnificent musical score blended with Clay's expert direction and countless reels of actual battle film footage to produce the prototj'pe of today's documentaries, cor­nering the market on SyK-ania awards, fore­runner of today's Emmies. With 25 years in motion pictures and television, including work for the Nav>', Air Force and RKO-Pathe, Clay will probably still be around taking new Emmy awards when The Defend­ers and Victory at Sea have finished making the rounds in S)'ndication. 
EDWARD J. MONTAGNE, '35, producer of the comedy hit McHale's Navy at Universal City's Revue Studios, is another veteran of motion pictures and television. Before he moved to Hollj-wood to resume production of filmed series for MCA-T\', Ed was execu­tive producer in charge of all film opera­tions for CBS telewsion, hax-ing joined CBS-T\' in 1955 as super\-isor of film pro­duction. 
Previously Ed had been head of program­ming for advertising agencies, producing and directing such major TV programs as / Spy starring Ra>'mond Massey and Men Against Crime starring Ralph Bellamy. Before tele­vision Ed was a writer-director-producer for Hal Roach, RKO and United Artists. 
MAURICE TO-MBRACEL, '35, was spotlighted recently as a leading writer for the morie-T\ ' production of Walt Disney, including Disneyland and Wonderful World of Color. A film ^vrite^ for years at Universal and Co­lumbia, Maurie later free-lanced hundreds of scripts for T V Westerns like Bat Masterson, 
Frontier Doctor, Jim Bowie, Stories of the Century, Wild Bill Hickok and Wyatt Earp, 
Maurie went to Disney to script "John Slaughter" and "Elfego Baca" for Disney-
FRED HEIDER, '36 ABC-TVs Veteran Music Man 

land. Since then his writing assignments have alternated between one-hour color "specials" for Wonderful World and full-length feature films like Moon Pilot and a forthcoming comedy starring Maurice Chc­x-alier and Hayley Mills. 
FREDERICK HEIDER, '36, producer of ABC-

TVs Voice of Firestone, wanted to be an 
actor. After a year at Notre Dame, Mil­waukeean Heider ser\-ed a three-year ap­prenticeship at Chicago's Goodman Theatre, joined the Globe Theatre Company in more than 3,000 touring Shakespeare perform­ances, finally got a job with Orson Welles' Mercury Theatre carrying a spear and Iatcr,j as an NBC page for §15 a week. 
Meanwhile Fred persuaded a New York radio station to let him produce a half-hour program called Story Shop. He also wrote some of the scripts, directed most, and oc­casionally cast himself in a choice role. After World War II ser\'icc with the Red Cross, he returned to New York and a script , writing berth at ABC. Somehow, most of the shows he did were musicals — Sammy Kayc, Jo Stafford and Perry Como. 
Mo\'ing from radio to T\', he became as­sociate producer of the Paul Whiteman show. He also wrote and produced shows starring Martha Wright, Earl Wrightson, Billy Daniels; the Ted Mack Family Hour, : Club Seven, and Life is Worth Living. 
When The Voice of Firestone moved to ABC in 1954, Fred became its producer. He remained at the creative controls until the program went off the air on June 1, 1959. 
How's this for a list of winners with the Irish touch? 'The Defenders' . . . 'Disneyland'... 'McHale's Navy'... 'Music for a Summer Night'... 'Victory at Sea ... 'Voice of Firestone' . . . 'V/onderful World of Color . . . not to mention credits with comics Newhart, Bishop, Gobel, and Benny . . . action hits like Jim Bowie, Wild Bill Hickok, Bat Masterson & Wyatt Earp .. .'I Spy' . . . 'Men Against Crime .. . '21 Beacon Street' . . . and 'Straightaway.' 
Two days later he inaugurated the hour-long troops. The postwar years found him a Music for a Summer Night, which in its struggling actor, appearing in some 50 plays limited seasonal run gained wide viewer and on the road, in New York and in Holly^vood. critical approval and applause. In keeping On television since 1948, Joe hit his stride with the calendar, the program next year in 1960 when he landed a regular role on became Music for a Spring Night, and again the George Gobel Show, followed by as­Music for a Summer Night. signments with Jack Benny, Bob Hope, Joey He has produced many Bell Telephone Bishop, Bob Newhart, and other comedy Hour specials. shows. His very first exposure on TV was *Vx with his own show, Yer Old Buddy on KTLA in Los Angeles, where Marilyn 
Actor-comedian JoE FLYN.V, '46, co-

i} Monroe made her first TV appearance. He 
starring with Ernie Borgnine as Captain 
has commuted from television for character 

Wallace Binghamton in McHale's Naay, is 
roles in 20 motion pictures, including The

challenging Art Carney and Don Knotts for 
Eddie Foy Story, The Ten Commandments,

the title of World's Greatest Supporting 
Cry For Happy, The Last Time I Saw

Comedian. .At 36, Joe has the unassuming 
Archie, and Loner Come Back with Doris 

looks and versatility of an .American Peter 
Day and Rock Hudson. 

Sellers with 20 years of show business ex­perience behind him since he appeared at 
In 1950, when his career was at a mo­f mentary standstill, he tried politics. Joe ran 
,v 
Notre Dame in Ed Cashman's student musi­cal Let's Get Going. 
for the state legislature in Ohio and came 

During the war years he left N.D. and within a few hundred votes of deserting show his native Youngstown, O., to join the biz for politics. He is married to the former 
\\ 
U.S. .'\rmy Special Ser\'ices, entertaining Shirley Haskin. They have t\vo children, Tony, 4, and Kenneth Conrad, 2. The BRIAN KELLY, '57 Flynns own a hilltop home in Beverly Hills, 
l_,-T 
Private Eye in Syndication Calif., earned with dozens of television credits including The Eddie Fisher Show, Alfred Hitchcock Presents, The Chevy Show, Gun-mcrcials on a local TV station, a Hollywood smoke, The Real McCoys, Wagon Train, talent scout spotted him and took him to Hawaiian Eye and The Adventures of Oz-the movie capital for a screen test at zie and Harriet. Universal-International. .\s young Kelly was about to sign with the studio, U-I retrenched 
•. ^ 
its activities, resulting in loss of employment 
"Private Eye" actor BRIAX KELLY, '57, re­
for many of its employees and dropping of 

cently married, is living on residuals from his 
contract plans. 

role of Scott Ross in ABC-TVs Straight­
away and an earlier juvenile lead with Den­Along with hundreds of other aspiring nis Morgan in the syndicated series 21 film actors, Brian gravitated to the television Beacon Street. Brian (his real name) is 6'2" studios. Producer Al Simon became inter­tall, weighs 185 pounds, was a ver^- good stu­ested in the dark Irishman with the collegi­dent at Notre Dame, played football until ate air, and cast him as a costarring lead a leg injury sidelined him in his sophomore in a pilot film, Ifar Birds. Brian did such year, has only a year to go towards a law a good job that he also was assigned to an­degree at the University of Michigan, and other Simcn pilot, this time as third lead in was a Marine Corps officer in Korea in 1953. 21 Beacon Street. The latter vvas sold first and Brian Kelly \\ras costarring in a network 
Brian is one of six children of Hon, Harrj­

series before he'd been in Hollpvood two
F. Kelly, '17, governor of Michigan from 
years. 
1942 to 1947 and now a justice of the Mich­igan State Supreme Court. The son aspired The only Kelly to follow acting, Brian is to a career in law long enough to finish two surrounded by brothers and brothers-in-law 
CLAY ADAMS, '26 years at the University of Michigan Law who are in the automotive business. His twin Emmy Champ with "Defenders" School. But while he was doing some com-brother Harry is with General Motors. 
TV OR NOT TV? No, it's the real thing as FBI Special Agent Aubrey Lewis, '58, shows thi stance used in shooting from the hip. At right, Cincinnati agents include (l.-r.) Field Supervisor Patrick J. Bannon, '40, and Special Agents Quentin F. Hanson, Aubrey C. Lewis and Hubert J. O'Hara. A former track and football star, Aubrey is married and has two daughters in Cincinnati, O. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 
ANYONE WHO EVER went to Notre 

Dame knows where Corby Hall is. It is an old building. Years ago it was a student residence hall. Now it is a hall for priests and brothers who are not assigned as rectors or prefects. Just to brush up your geography — and this is for those who might forget — Corby Hall is next to the Church. It is to the west of the Church and just up tlie hill from the Grotto. 
In front of this staid old building is a statue of "himself — as tlie Irish say. There he stands — and has stood since 1910 or thereabouts — with his hand raised in absolution. He was the only Catholic Chaplain at Gettj-sburg 
— and at Gettysburg tliere were 75,000 Confederate and 97,000 Union troops. There were 51,000 casualties in those three daj-s of fighting between July 1st and July 3rd. So Father Corby was a ver)' busy man. 
At Notre Dame in those early days there were only thirteen priests; even so, seven of tliese priests went into ser\'ice as Chaplains. This is something to be proud of. It shows that Notre Dame, from its very beginning, was a fountainhead of patriotism. That the seven Chaplains were with the Army of tlie Potomac was a matter of locale, not necessarily of sjinpathy. 
Father Corby was bom in 1833. This means that he was 30 years old when 





MAN and the MOMENT 
By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '41 
he was at Gettysburg. AVe are not prais­ing him over other Chaplains. The Dillons, the Gillens, tlie Cooneys, and all the others — North and South, and of other religions — were men of great good will who loved their God and Countr}'. We single out Father Corby because he happened to be at Gettj's­burg and Gettysburg was a bitter bat­tleground. 
\Vc have gotten away from the heart of tlie heartland. \Ve scan quickly through newspapers to see what wnds of tlie world blow dark and full of warning. In subways and car pools and trains, with routine drags on tasteless brands, we hurry in our jungle to mount our concrete empire on speedy elevators. Another day of phones and great decisions, of tiresome meetings and urgent sales. Finally the quick 
Father Corby 

DESCENDENTS of Fathers Patrick and James Dillon, C.S.C., and Sister Liguori Dillon, C5.C., include: (top row, l.-r.) Mary Margaret Paula Dalton, great-grcat­great-niece; Airs. Robert Dalton, great-grcat-niccc; Deirdrc Dalton grcat-great­great-niecc; Paul Martin-Dillon, great-nephew; (bottom row, 1-r.) Freddy Dalton, great-great-great-ncphew; Anne-Dillon Dalton, great-great-grcat-niece; Angela Dalton, great-great-grcat-niece. Father Patrick Dillon was a president of Notre Dame, and Father James Dillon was one of eight N.D. Ci«l War chaplains. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 

descent, the cocktail chatter and beddy­bye. We have forgotten how much cruel dying it has taken to keep our countrj' free, our flags fl)'ing and our­selves alive. Someone put it bluntly in these words: 
God and tlie soldier we adore In time of danger, not before. Danger passes and all is righted; 
God is forgotten and the soldier slighted. 

The war between the States was a tragic affair. It \\'as well said at Gettj's­burg — and it applies to all the land 
— "On this hallowed ground soldiers of a diN-ided nation clashed in the greatest battle ever fought on American soil." Each battle, wherever fought, was 

and the Chaplains 
the greatest to those for whom it ^\'zs lost. Their life was one quick autumn till their hurting blood made rich the fertile fields ploughed by another's sweat. 
The rock on which Father Corby stands at Notre Dame \\'as carved from the fields of Gett)'sburg by a man named Rosensteel. The sculptor of the Uvo statues was Samuel Murray. As we pay tribute to Father Corby and the dark days of Gettysburg we salute all the Priests, Sisters, Brothers and boj-s and girls who ser\'ed in every war. He stands tliere in ever)' season to • remind us that we should never forget the men on whose lives we stand. Let me quote from a 1909 letter from Union veteran James Emory Byram to Saint Joseph's College An­nual in Philadelphia: 
"The dust and the cobweb of years have fallen around me, yet that mental picture remains undimmed. The central figure in that crucial moment — he stood above them, without fear — human, yet di\'ine! He, the representa­tive of God, gave to them God's message unto him! Father Corby, 
PANELISTS McDade, Pfaff and Stuhldrcher hold a pre-ganie huddle with N.D. "Coach" Jim Murphy, '47, director of public informatioii. 
IRISH UNDEFEATED ON 'ALUMNI FUN' WITH SEASON RECORD OF 0-0-2 
CONGRESSMAN McDade and his wife hold an earnest ofT-caniera conversation with "Alumni Fun" moderator John K. XL McCaffer>-. 
TH E FOURTH HORSEMAN, a freshman 
Congressman from Pennsylvania and a young political writer formed the undefeated team that represented Notre Dame with honor on the ".•\Iumni Fun" quiz show .April 7 and 14 over .ABC-TV. The Irish alumni team 
Christian Priest, Hero, Saint, is dead! 
' His sublime heroism and the blood of the men he blessed and who went to heaven from that field of wheat, golden in the sunlight but red at twilight, was not in vain. Hb deed — the red­dened wheat — enriched the granaries 
- of this fair land and all the world, for all time! Unmeasured debt, unfatliom­able gratitude to him, and to them! We who survive, we who still pursue this mar\'ellous journey we call life, can only mark the highways with granite and bronze to commemorate their lives, their deeds, their deatlis, that generations to come may take note." 
PANELIST Pfaff, like publicist Murphy a former ABC news writer, now consults on government policies for The Hudson In­stitute. 
drew ties with Loyola of Los Angeles and Williams College respectively, bowing only to the toss of a coin. 
The N.D. roster: Ail-American Quarter­back Harr)- Stuhldrcher, '25, former Wis­consin and Villano\'a coach, now* a public relations e.\ec with U.S. Steel; Rep. Joseph 
HORSEMAN Stuhldrcher reminisces about past gridiron glories with moderator Mc-Caffery, better known as an ABC news commentator. 
McDade, '53, (R., 10th Dist., Pa.), former Scranton city solicitor, newly elected to the seat \-acated by Pennsylvania Governor Wil­liam Scranton; and \vriter William Pfaff, '49, former -ABC News and Commonweal editor, author of The New Politics and The Politics of Hysteria. 


'55 Grads Join Alumni, Foundation Stalfs 
THOMAS J. KERXAX, '55, has been ap­pointed field secretarj- for the Notre Dame I .Alumni .Association. 
.A native of New York City, Tom has served since graduation as an insurance ad­ministrator in San Fran­cisco, most recently ap­praising real estate for the Equitable Life .As­surance Society. 

He will be associated with .Alumni Secretar>- James E. .Armstrong in developing the University's network of nearly 200 alumni clubs around the world and implementing the program for such annual club functions as Universal Notre Dame Night and N.D. Communion Sunday. 
RICHARD C. RUWE, '55, has been named an assistant director of the Notre Dame '_ ": Foundation. 
Dick has been work­ing since graduation in his native Indianapo­lis, most recently as an agent for Indianapolis Life Insurance Co., and earlier as a computer analyst-cost accountant for R.C.A. 

He vnll assist the public relations, development and fund rais­ing functions of the Foundation as a field representative, working with aliunni volun­teers and non-alumni friends of the Univer­sity, presenting the Notre Dame case to cor­porations, foundations, etc. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 7 
By Frank Dicello, 


Slfi^i 
Secretary, Notre 


theS0^^^ 
Dame Class of 1963 

Winter of Discontent? 
Throughout the past year at Notre Dame, there has been a controversy carried on between many student groups as to the role of the student and student life at a universit)'. It has found expression in the Student Senate, which questioned its own role in the University complex. After the initial appropriations and appointments were made, no Senate meeting was held for two months. The reason given by the student body president was that there was no business of sufficient importance to warrant a meeting. A debate began on the purpose of the Senate. Was the Senate merely to be a service organi­zation which organized dances, mixers, lectures, and otlier events of that na­ture? Or was student government to have an actual role in the governing of students? If it was to fill both the former and latter roles, several ques­tions arose. How best could it repre­sent student opinion? In what areas of University life and to what extent should students have a voice? In addi­tion to these, other questions were formulated. What was to be the role of students in r^ard to the academic program? To the policies of the ad­
ministration? etc., etc. 
These discussions found their way into the Scholastic, the weekly campus tiews magazine. Many ideas were pre­sented. Some were good, responsibly presented, valid criticisms. Others in the opinion of many were not so valid, or were in poor taste. In Februarj', there was an article proposing that Father Hesburgh be appointed Chan­cellor and that a renowned lajinan be appointed president to administer the daily operations of the University. The authors felt that Father Hes-
bui^h's many duties kept him away from the University' too often. 
In late March, University officials deleted a declaration of student rights, responsibilities, and grievances from an issue of the Scholastic. This declara­tion was an attempt by a small group to define the proper role of the stu­dent and the interrelationship with the administration and faculty from the student point of \'iew. The grievances 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 

were a list of concrete changes they felt were desirable. Among these were improved hall facilities, a reduction in the number of priests in the residence halls, new rules on cars, etc., etc. The editors protested the deletion and the Universit)' cancelled the next issue, wliich would have been the last under those editors before the spring change­
over. During the Easter vacation Father Hesburgh sent the following letter con­cerning our "Winter of Discontent" to every student. Although it is long, it is reprinted here because it is a very neces­saiy and significant part of any discus­sion on the events of the preceding months. In conclusion of my part of 
tliis  article  I  would  like  to  clarify  
a  few  points.  
There  are  two  impressions  which  

may have been the result of the capsule summaries of the Scholastic controversy as it appeared in many newspapers. One is that there is no longer any real student freedom of expression. I think the great majority of the students hope and honestly believe that this is not so. 
Secondly, because of the emphasis put on the "Chancellor Hesburgh" edi­torial, the opinion may have been created that Father Hesburgh is not a respected and popular president among the members of die student body. No person in a command position has ever enjoyed the complete agreement of those over whom he must exercise authorit)'. Yet it must be stated that the student body does recognize the tremendous ad\'ances which Notre 
Dame has made in recent years. That these are very much the result of the dedication and hard work of our presi­dent there is no doubt. His departure at any time would be regarded as a great loss. 
There are many areas on which both the students and the administration will have to work effectively in the fu­ture. These efforts I'm sure will be reported in next year's "Student Slant." As this is my last "Student Slant," I shall look forward to joining that elite group in the back of this magazine with my first Class of '63 column next issue. 
Note: Because Father Hesburgh's letter tc the Notre Dame student body has been quoted so widely in the press and has re­ceived so much comment from other cam­puses, it is reprinted here in full so that its more publicized passages can be understood in context. — Ed., ALUMNUS. 
P
RESiDEN-T Kennedy was asked recently if this had been, for America, the winter of our discontent. He said no but hedged somewhat. If I were asked the same ques­tion as regards Notre Dame, I would say clearly yes, without hedging. 
For anyone who has been around here for the last decade or t%vo, this discontent is not very easy to understand or to e.Kplain.jThere are some simple explanations offered, but they do not explain verj- much. 
There are ample reasons to argue against discontent: The University has emerged as the Catholic universit>' in this heitiisphcre. if not in all the world. The facultj- is better regarded than ever before, the students more intelligent, the facilities v-astly improved — and improving to the extent of $40,000,000 in less than two decades. The course of stu­dents in all colleges has been revised. . . . 
Student life is considerably different than it was a decade or two ago. Disciplinary regulations have been rela.\ed and simplified. One of the simple answers lays all the blame for discontent here: "Lay on with hea\T hand and the troops won't become restless." I cannot accept this, but I wll say a word later about the status of discipline at Notre Dame. 
If we assume that progress has been almost rampant here in the last decade or two, com­pared to other comparable academic institu­tions (and many people may take a bow for these accomplisliments). then one might ask, "Why all the discontent?" 
I'm not sure that anyone can adequately answer this question, except to point up-symptoms, concomitant phenomena, and other tangential realities at work here. 
LET ME PROFESS FIRST OF ALL my belief that discontent is not all bad. Any perceptive or sensitive person who knows anything of what goes on in human life to­day will suffer from chronic and divine dis­content that will never be completely cured this side of the Beatific Vision. -Any person who really knows himself and senses what God expects of him will be continually dis­satisfied with his own personal performance. Plato joined these two perennial discontents when he said that anyone who wanted to remake the world had best start by remak­ing himself. 
To get back to the local winter of discon­tent, liow to explain it? The weather? Hardly, even though it was the worst win­ter since 1903, and everyone contracted a certain amount of cabin fever. This, in turn, led to almost morbid reappraisal of every­thing in sight here, as though the main pre­occupation of students here should be to take the whole place apart and put it together again in some new image. Anyway, it was a field day inside the cabin. I did recognize some of the s>'mptoms easier after seeing remote outposts in the antarctic last De­cember. 
In a broader context, I believe the discon­tent might be seen, in small measure, as a part of the total spiritual malaise that afflicts • so much of our world today. One senses this in the negativism reflected by a sign I saw last year on a wall in South America, "NADAISMO" (Nothingism). There is a 
deep frustration endemic to much of modem life and it is very catching when Christian optimism wanes, or courage falters, or people turn too introspectively upon themselves and their own petty, narrow problems. 
ONE MIGHT LEGITIMATELY argue, I suppose, regarding how widespread discon­tent really was among the student body. Many seemed to be having the time of their lives, while others wailed and railed. One thing can be said for certain — discontent was syndicated and, I suppose, official and unofficial. 
Humor might have helped, but the fact that true humor is as difficult to handle as mercury may lessen the cruelty of the judg­ment that the two attempts at humor maga­
. zincs were, in turn, sad and then disgraceful. In any event, there was little humor last winter, and instead the dead-pan seriousness of an apocalypdc era. 
The Scholastic (see accompanying article) had moments of greatness and the promise of being the best, rather than a mixture of the best and the worst ever. Several tenden­cies marred the greatness: An excessively negative attitude that felt called upon to scorn everything under God and to pontifi­cate far beyond the limits of its writers' modest wisdom; bitter analysis that often missed the point by ignoring or misrepresent­ing the facts of the matter; rather crude and unkind personal criticisms; and on one occa­sion, an open lack of integrity on the part of those in charge that would have cost them their jobs an>^vhere else and here too, if the University were indeed what they were de­picting it to be. 
One might well have responded with the old-time fire and brimstone. It seemed the better part of wisdom, however, to see for once how far irresponsibility might go if allowed in large measure to run its course. The answer: pretty far. Anything even re­motely connected with that omnipresent bug­aboo, authority, was scourged. The barri­cades were noisily manned for ever)- cause of student freedom, be it good, bad, or foolish. 
WORST OF ALL, the lifelong dedica­tion of hundreds of valiant priests and brothers, over the course of 120 years since the birth of Notre Dame, was brushed off in several pen strokes. For their penance, I would ask these writers to ^vaIk down the long rows of crosses in the cemetery and ponder the difTerence between what this silent brigade has given to Notre Dame and what they themselves have loudly contributed by their thoughtless and tasteless words. 
Getting back to the Scholastic, when the plug was finally pulled, the editors walked out and seemed to become martyrs, although I have always thought martyrdom required dying on the job, not giving up. So, while 1 am not about to confer on them the palm of martyrdom, neither do I overlook their good efforts this year to create an intelligent and serious student publication. 
An>-way, it was all a reasonably predictable ending to a winter of discontent, and I sus­pect that many were slightly fed up by this time, and ready for spring and sunshine and the open road ahead. I'm sure some students ivere even an.\ious to continue their educa­tion in a more peaceful atmosphere, although 


NEW SPRING OF HOPE? 
By Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
REV. HANS KUNG (center), noted European theologian, who lectured to a capacity audience of 3,000 in Stepan Center before Easter, confers with Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., '45 (left), head of the sponsoring theology dcpt., and Rev. Leon Mertensotto, C.S.C., '33, instructor who studied with Fr. Kimg at Gregorian University. Dr. Kung, who spoke on "Freedom in the Church," said he detected a great deal of freedom on the N.D. campus. 
no good university is ever entirely peaceful. I have often been reminded this past win­ter of the young student who found Christi­anity inadequate and decided to found his own new and better religion. He asked a wise old theologian for advice on how to get started. The old scholar, with a twinkle in his eye, said: "I suggest that you arrange to get yourself crucified, and then rise from the dead on the third day." 
Discontent more often than not tries to drive a wedge, to foster divisions, so that it may feed upon itself and prolong its melan­choly mood. I can work up a good cause of anger against anyone or anything that tries to divide those who must grow together on this campus, faculty — all faculty — and students, administration — on all levels — and faculty and students, priests and laymen. 
NEITHER DO I CONSIDER faculty and students equal partners in the educadve process here, since students by definition are here to study under the direction of the faculty, and to learn. Nor do I consider student leaders to be makers of broad uni­versity policy or wielders of pressure, ex­cept in their own domain. How long have we waited for student leadership to or­ganize an honor system that really works— to ouUaw, once and for all, the widespread cheating that tarnishes academic life on most campuses, and this one too? 
How long have student leaders talked 
NOTRE DAME MAN thrice more, President Father Hesburgh acknowledges a certificate as an honorary alimuius of the three Notre Dame Colleges of Cotabato, Mindanao, P.I., presented hy Rcr. CuUen F. Dcckert, OMI, in recogsition of the University as the inspiration for the Fliilippine colleges and to honor the leader of "the world's foremost educational institution to bear the name of Notre Dame." Fr. Dccltert is vice-president of the collegers in the U.S. 
v.ithout producing a code of student con­duct worthy of Notre Dame? The Iroquois would have to team up with the Apache to equal the recent St. Patrick's Day damage that some of your classmates ivrcakcd on a Chicago hotel. Much of substance awaits the touch of fine leadership in the student domain. Manifestoes of rights are always easier to produce and more popular than proddings to difficult responsibilities in areas where only students can assume real leader­ship. 
I WOULD CALL TO YOUR attention a recent definition of political leadership: "The subde and sensitive attiming and dis­ciplining of ail words and deeds — not to mend the petty conflict of the moment, nor to close some tiny gap in the discourse of the day — but to define and to advance de­signs and policies for a thousand tomor­rows." (John Hughes) 
We hope that Notre Dame will be with us as a unique institution of education for these thousand tomorrows. Discipline, which I assume none of us like, is and will be part of the education at Notre Dame dur­ing these tomorrows. So will values and standartls. Two years ago, 15 pages of rules and regulations were reduced to one page of seven or eight essential nJes. 
This leaves at least some basic dis­cipline to gripe about. Beyond the normal griping, if anyone seriously believes that he cannot become well educated here without a car, or girls in his room, or if one really thinks that his personal freedom is impos­sibly restricted by curfew, or state laws on drinking, or the presence of priests in the residence halls, then I think the only honest reaction is to get free of Notre D^e, not to expect Notre Dame to lose its tmique character and become_ just another school with just another quality of graduates. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 

TEACHER EDUCATION study recently united these educators (l.-r.): Dr. James B. Conant, former president of Har>-ard University, touring the U.S. to review facilities; Dr. 
Alex Jardine, South Bend superintendent of University's education department; and Dr. 
Notre Dame has changed greatly, and will change more for the better, one hopes. But set principles must guide the change. Permanent \'alues must remain. .\nd, be­nighted though it may appear to some, we do see permanent educational value in the few essential rules and regulations that were retained when all the nonessentials were dropped two years ago. The dropping is now over as we catch our breath in this ex­hilarating new freedom of abridged disci­pline. 
If you aren't smiling at this point, you are still too serious — even for the revolu­tion. Am I saying that students shouldn't be critical? Of course not. But they shouldn't be Don Quixotes either — there are too many really important targets for your fresh and idealistic thought I am equally ready to admit that we of the fac­ulty and administration can learn some valuable lessons from students as we walk this road together. 
Nonetheless, your primary role as stu­dents here is to Icam, not to teach. Stu­dents who think otherwise should go out, found their own universities, and then take lessons from their students. This, in fact, is the sad anatomy of most South American universities. It is also the reason that they do not amount to much, as universities. 
THESE LATTER WORDS will have to many the tone of Neanderthal growl. They will sound even worse, after our winter of discontent, because ner\'es are frayed, emo­tions run high, implications are always as­sumed to be the worst, and the naysayers welcome any grist for their mill. At the risk of sounding hoplessly naive, and what is worse, possibly Maudlin, may I say quite simply that I love students, especially Notre Dame students, not because you are all in­herently lovable at all times, but because you do represent one of the best present hopes for a better future, if you learn here the really important lessons for the long tomorrows. 
I assume that all faculty members — clerical and lay — and all administrators — clerical and lay — also love students. If they do not, they should not be here. I further assiune that loving students means 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 
 schools; Dr. Robert Strickler, head of the  George Shuster, assistant to Fr. Hesburgh. 
that we ^vish you well, particularly in the educational context, so that we all want to aid and abet in every way possible, at what­ever cost of time, talent or dedication, that mysterious process by which young men grow in wisdom and grace, as well as age. 
Once said, this still leaves a good deal unsaid as to ways and means and par­ticularities, student government, publica­tions, and all the rest, but I trust that our honest love of students establishes the hu­man context in which mutual respect and productive action are possible on all levels for a better Notre Dame. The particularities can be settled if we are agreed on the con­text of life at Notre Dame. 
To mention just a few of my oivn present preoccupations: I take it that we are \vasting our time if we leave you so bedazzled by the fascinating bright light of your emerging intellectual insight that you become unduly proud rather than humble in the face of all that is still unknown to you. I hope we might also represent to you personally, in some small way at least, the other values beyond the intellectual: Honesty and in­tegrity, compassion, human understanding, magnanimous generosity, kindness, loyalty and ultimately the wisdom that encompasses most of these. 
MAY I ALSO TAKE this opportunity to lay to rest one myth. I believe that a uni­versity president may be expected to give leadership and a tone, possibly even a style, to the whole operation, but he cannot personally be involved in very much of the day-by-day operation. 
President Bamaby Kenncy of Brown Uni­versity recently remarked in his annual re­port that students were restive about his being away to raise funds, and not being always on hand to pat their heads or their bottoms. I take it you men don't need such patting, at least not from me, as I too am often away, raising money and trying to involve Notre Dame in many crucial areas where no Catholic university has been in­volved before. 
Lastly, I would hope that we might in­spire you to serve, not only God, country and Notre Dame, but in a humbler conte-xt, your fellow student while here today, your neighbor at home and abroad tomorrow. 
We must also try to interest some of you in the educative process, so that you too might give yourselves to this total endeavor that is Notre Dame, as a priest or layman in the days ahead. There is no real cause for discontent here that could not be dis­sipated by more intelligent, more under­standing, more dedicated people on every level, including my own. If a few stalwarts among you make this move, the positive deed will outshine the negative word, and the winter of our discontent may be for­gotten in the flowering of a new springtime of hope. 

"INDIA TODAY" was the subject of a lecture by Mrs. Indira Gandhi, daughter of India's Prime Minister Nehru, on a recent visit to the campus. Shown at a dinner before the lecture arc (l.-r.): Father Joyce, executive vice-president; JoseiA Simoni, head of the Student Senate international commissiim; Mis. Gandhi; Alfred C. Stepan, trustee, who arranged Mrs. Gandhi's viat; and Michael Sennot^ student social commissioner. 
THE MISSION OF MARY, essays by Sister 
M. Annice Donovan, C.S.C, M.A. '42, Ph.D. '46. Milwaukee: Bruce Publishing Co., 1963, 134 pp., $2.50. 
This book is a series of meditations on the powerful and astonishing graces and virtues of our Blessed Mother in virtue of her great mission, the divine motherhood. The first part deals with God's forming Mary as His perfect instrument in the plan of the Incarnation. The second part treats of Mary as a living examplar of the Chris­tian, witness to Christ, amidst daily joys and sorrows. In the third part the emphasis is on the need which all men have of the mercy which our Queen Mother dispenses to sinners. 
The Mission Of Mary is not a bulky book, comprising only eleven short chapters. Con­cerning the work and its author. Sister M. Madcleva, C.S.C, writes in the preface: "Mary, holding the keys of both hope and love, opens for humanity the doors so long closed. In this she is the mother of humanity for all times and places. As the immediate intercessor before the King in behalf of His subjects, she thus becomes the queen of the universe. .. . Of Mary in these aspects of her mission to men, Sister Annice em­ploys her training in philosophy with com­petence. She brings to this study the de­votion of a scholar, the love of a child of Mary." 
O'NEILL, biography by Arthur and Bar­bara Gelb. New York: Harper, 970 pp., 1962. ?12.50. 
This is a complete life of the great Ameri­can play-wright, whose family background was woven into the Notre Dame campus through his brother's enrollment here, his mother's education by the Holy Cross Sisters, and visits by liis actor-father. The authors are Arthur Gelb, of the New York Times drama staff, and his wife, Barbara, long-time O'Neill enthusiasts and biogra­phers. The research on the biography is comprehensive and the results are in the massive O'Neill tradition. 
SELLING LIFE INSURANCE FOR DE­FERRED COMPENSATION, textbook (soft) by Frank E. Sullivan, CLU, '49. Indi­anapolis: Research & Review Service of America, 1962. 58 pp., $3.25. 
Based on his theory that the span of a generation is necessar)- before plans filter down from "big business" to closely held corporations, Frank Sullivan, in his just-released book, states that since plans of de­ferred compensation really "took-ofT' in the early 1940's for public corporations, similar plans designed for the smaller firms should "s^veep the country in this decade." This has proved true in his own case. 
In the heart of the book, the author in­cludes his own sales presentation, with sug­gestions on how it can be adapted to other prospect situations. He discusses the actual setting of the stage for the presentation, the preliminary remarks, the use of a sur\-ey book, the actual proposal, the procedure to be followed after the proposal, and the re­view of answers to objections and questions. He writes: "This book is written for sales­men. Not for home ofiice personnel, not for 
•people in field management, but for the man who is a 100% salesman and who should be on the firing line every mom­ing . . . " 

PIERRE CHARLES Mission Award "for the most outstanding mission book of 1962" was given to the University of Notre Dame Press, represented by Director Emily Schossberger (center) and Rev. George Dunne, S.J., (left) as publisher and author, respectively, of "Generation of Giants," describing Jesuit missionary activities in Ming Dynasty China, by Rev. J, F. Ewing, S.J., of Fordham. 
Mfre'Dame^ooks 

THE CHRISTIAN AND THE LAAS', ser­
mons by Bishop John J. Wright, LL.D. '55. 
Notre Dame: Fides Publishers, 1962. 104 
pp., $3.95. 

Contained in this book are nine "Red Mass" sermons delivered by Bishop Wright in various American cities over the past t^velve years. Although his "specific congre­gations" were made up of members of the legal profession, it is nevertheless true that the subject matter is by no means nar­rowly legal in either scope or implications. 
YEARBOOK OF LITURGICAL STUDIES, Vol. Ill, anthology edited by Rev. John H. Miller, C.S.C, '49. Notre Dame: Fides Publishers, 1962. 299 pp., $7.00. 
.Another significant contribution to the literature of the modern liturgical move­ment, this annual is devoted to the en­couragement of scholarly research in li­turgical questions. 
.\TOMPOWER, nonfiction by Joseph M. Dukert, '51. New York: Coward McCann, Inc., 1962. 127 pp., $3.50. 
The story of the age of the atom in the language of the Ia>-man, Atompower ex­plains what nuclear energy is and how it is used. Step by step, it takes the reader from an explanation of atomic structure to an understanding of how different types of nuclear reactors work. 
Using photographs and drawings, the book describes the workings of atomic sub­marines and surface ships, the roles nuclear energ>- will play in space, the prospects of peaceful atomic explosions, and the uses of radioactive materials in industr>% medi­cine and agriculture. 
A SOUND IN THE FOREST, novella by Thomas A. Ritman, '57. New York: Pageant Press, 1962. 49 pp., $2.50. 
Set in Andalusia, Spain, this small book tells a simple story of a young man's awakening into life and the world and his simultaneous discovery of himself. Poetical­ly described is the mystical experience im­parted to the boy and his donkey by encounters with an old man in the cork forests and orange groves of southern Spain. The author, an eighth-generation Ken­tuckian, is now a journalist in Indianapolis. 

Pageant Press, Inc., the publisher, has announced that A Sound in the Forest is an honorable mention prize winner in its aimual Best Book Contest, established in 1954. 
PROMISES TO KEEP, biography by Agnes Wise Dooley. New York: Farrar, Straus and Cudahy, Inc., 1962. 272 pp., $4.95. 
Dr. Thomas Dooley, '48, was held captive by the Communist forces in Vietnam for a day and a night, Mrs. Dooley reveals for the first time in her own story of her son, pub­lished last November. 
The incident occurred in May 1955, during the evacuation of Haiphong. Dr. Dooley explained the detention to his mother in a letter: "I was held in a building right in the town. . . . The only harm that came to me was that I was just scared to death. .All the time I was given food and water, of sorts. No head facilities, and no place to go. My clothes were taken away. This humiliation plus the mess (my own) that I ^vas forced to stand, sit, and sleep in vtas all that I had to take. Questioning, yes, a good deal of it, in a fashion that has been well publicized. But I was never touched. 'Sir, do you own an automobile? And is it not true that this car cost the equivalent of many people's salary?' This %vas the type of questioning. 
"The full particulars of what happened during this time are not going to be told to anyone for some time. The American Commodore, not having my walkie-talkie radio check for five days, came ashore him­self and went to the International Control Commission. My friends, the Poles, did some intervening and my brief 'detention' came to an end." 
In Promises to Keep, Mrs. Dooley makes extensive use of her son's letters and photo­graphs from the Dooley family album. 
A TRE.ASURY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTB.ALL, edited by Gene Schoor. New York: Funk & Wagnalls Company, Inc., 1962. $8.50. 
A Treasury of Notre Dame Football is a collection of stories, anecdotes, and photo­graphs chronicling the great history of the teams as it happened, as sports reporters, \vriters, and the players and coaches them­selves recorded the drama and excitement (and sometimes the humor) of the teams in action. 
The book deals with how it all began, and includes a famous letter to Coach Camp at Yale asking for information on how to start a football team, an account of the first game in 1887 (against Michigan), and many little-known or forgotten facts about the first Notre Dame teams. The eras of Knute Rockne and Frank Leahy, the Notre Dame-Army rivalry, and Terry Brennan at Notre Dame complete the story. Damon Runyon, John Kieran, John Lardner, Red Smith, Grantland Rice, Bob Considine, .Arthur Daly, and many other distinguished writers are among the contributors. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 11 


of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ALABAMA 

John A. 0*Bricn, Jr., '51, 1465 Linda \^sta Dr., Regent Forest, Binning-ham, Ala. 
ALASKA 

John S. HcIIcnthal, '35, Box 941, Anchorage, Alaska. 
ARIZONA 

WotnK—John J. Schoulen, '48, 2120 
E. Palm Ln-, Phoenix 6, Arizona. Tucson—Timothy R. King, '37, 5651 
E. Scarlett. 
ARKANSAS 

Fort Smi/A—James A. Ciller, '48, 3715 Free Fenr Rd.. Fort Smith, Ark. 
Little Rock—James E. Madigan, '43, 4617 Crtstwood, Little Rock, .\rk. 
CALIFORNIA 

Ba/t<rj/!eW—Richard L. Bamctt, '56, 630 Golden State H«T-, Bakcrsfield, Calif. 
Cen/ro/—Harold A. Hair, '29 (Secre­tary), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Calif. 
Greater Long Beach Area—Edmond Sheeran, '31, 206 E. 4th, Long Beach 12, Calif. 
Los Aneeles—Robert L. Gervais, '55, 3219 Rosewood Ave., Los Angeles 66, Calif. 
Northern—^William C. McGou-an, '41, 1401 Vancouver Ave., Burlingame, Calif. 
Orange County—F. Steve Finan, '37, 2864 Monroe, Anaheim, Calif. 
Sacramento—.Alfred .A. Kaelin, '55, 2784 Harkners St., Sacramento 18, Calif. 
San Diego—Chns Cohan, '54, 6080 Cowles Mtn., La Mesa, Calif. 
San Fernando Valley — Tliomas W. Dunlay, '52, 14944 Napa St., Van NujTi, Calif. 
San Gabriel I'liffo'— William T. Huston, '51, 612 S. Flower St., Suite 700, Los Angeles 17, Calif. 
COLORADO 

Colorado Springs — William J. Don-elan, Jr., '29, 1800 Mesa Ave., Broadmoor, Colorado Spnngs, Colo. 
Denver—James M. Coughlin, '57, 3480 E. Qjarlcs Dr., Littleton, Colorado. 
CONNECTICUT 

Connecticut Valley — Robert L. Mc-Goldrick, '56, Old County Highway, East Granby, Conn. 
Fairfield County—William Mulrenan, 
•37, 100 TidemHl Terr., Fairfield, Conn. 

Naugatuck—^Domcnic A. Narducd, Jr., '52, 44 Beacon Manor Rd., Naugatuck, Coim. 
New Hasen—Dr. Robert T. Warner, '53, 1960 Whitney Ave., Hamden 17, Conn. 
DELAWARE 

Richard P. Hairsine, '55, 2219 Heam Rd., Fairfax, Wilmington 3, Del. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBL\ 
William B. Middendcrf, '43, Illack-MiUer Candle Co., 5329 — 42nd St., N.W., Washington 15. D.C. 
FLORIDA 

Central—Joseph M. McNamara, '47, 
P.O. Box 5547, Orlando, Fla. 

Fort LamderdaU—Donald K. Dorini, 'S3, 6241 S.W. 5th Cu, Plantation, Fla. 
12 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963
P.O. Box 59, Lafayette. Ind. 
Greater Miami—Raymond Popp, '38, 444 N.E. 50th Terrace, Miami, Fla. 
North Florida—^John F. Corrigan. '53, 1200 Bamett, Nat'l. Bank BIdg., Jacksomille 2, Fki. 
Palm Beach County—Dr. Bernard J. O'Hara, '48, 503 29th St., West Palm Beach, Fla. 
Pensacola—Patrick J. Gunning, '53, 3770 Stunmer Dr., Pensacola, Fla. 
St. Pelershurg-Tampa — Mark E. -Mooney, '26, 4525 Gaines Rd., Tampa, Fla. 
GEORGU -• 
.4(/<mni—Robert F. Hochman, '50, 210 North Ave., N.W., Apt. 31, At­lanta 13, Ga. 
IDAHO 
P. XCchael Kohout, '59, 6820 Folk 
Drive, Boise, Idaho. Wii*o fofli —James M. Brady, '29, 
P.O. Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS 
.4urora—Edward J. Fanning, '39, Fan­ning Chevrolet, Inc., 230 S. Broad­way, Aiut>ra, 111. 
Central Illinois — Tliomas Hamilton, Jr., '53, 3349 S. Fifth St., Spring­field, HI. 
Chicago—Norman J. Barry, '44, 105 
S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3, HI. Decatur — Ambrose C. Moran, '48, P.O. Box 1296, Decatur, 111. Eastern Illinois — Edward J. Layden, '41, Hoopeston, Dl. Fox Valley — George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, lU. Jo/ie(—Robert M. Walsh, '43, 2609 Dougall Rd., Jolict, 111. Kankakee Valley — Thomas J. Rey­nolds, '54, 343/. S. Winfield, Kankakee, 111. McHenry Counlj—Paul D . McCon­ncU, '32, 422 Harrington PI., Woodstock, HI. Peoria—Charles Perrin, '50, 2101 In­dependence Dr., R.R. 1, Pekin, HI. fiori/or<f—Albert CarrcU '22, 206 W. State St., Rockford, HI. Rock River Valley — Luke R. Morin, '53, 523 N. Dixon Ave., Dixon, HI. Southern Cook County — Robert N. 
Caffarelli, '55, 2633-E Hawthorne Lane, Flossmoor, 111. 
INDIANA 
Calumet District — Da\*id W. Ogrcn, '53, 5946 Hohman Ave., Hammond, Ind. Eastern Indiana—William F. Craig, '29, 1505 Granville, Mundc, Ind. Elkhart — Austin Gildea, '30, 5 St. Joseph Manor, Elkhart, Ind. Evansville—D. Patrick O'DanicI, '59, 
3110 East Gum St., E\'ans\-ille, Ind. Fort Wayne — Robert R. Luther, '49, 443 Kinnaird Ave., Fort Wayne, 
Ind. 

Indianapolis—Hon. John M. Ryan, '41, 5640 Washington Blvd.. Indi­anapolis 20, Indiana. 
Michigan City — Edwani J. Dwyer, *50, 2200 Oriole TraU, Long Beach, Michigan City, Ind. 
St. Joseph Valley — Gerald Hammes, '53, 545 £ . Angela, South Bend. Ind. Terre Haute—^James £. Sullivan, '55, 539 Monterey. Terre Haute, Ind. Wabash ValUy—James W. Glaser, '50, 
IOWA 

Burlington — Ed»-ard W. Daily, '33, 403 Court St.. Burlington, lou-a. 
Cedar Rapids—A. James Murray, *60, 3701 Kencrcst Drive, N.E., Cedar Rapids, lou-a. 
Des Moines—Paul C. Eide, '52, 403 Securities Bldg., Des Ikfotnes 9, lou-a. 
Dubuque—Rev. William Kuiucfa, *37, Our Lady of Seven Dolors Rectory, Fcstina, loM'a. 
Sioux-Land — Raymond B. Duggan, '43, 3244 Jackson, Sioux City 4, loiva. 
Tri-Cities {Davtnport, Rock Island, Moline, E. Moline)~36hn L. Bush, 
•52, 1609 Central Ave., Bcttendorf, loxra. 
KANSAS 

Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, *49. 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. 
5fl/fna—John C. Browne. '51, 5th i Court Sts., Clay Center, Kansas. iriVAi/a—George A. Schu-arz, '25, 500 
Orpheum BIdg., Wichita 2, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY 

Romano L. Mazzoli, '54, 415 Eastern Park^s-ay, Louisrille. Ky. 
LOUISIANA 

New Orleans—Pierre V. Miller, '59, 911 Pere Marquette Bldg., New-Orleans 12, Louisiana. 
Northern Louisiana—George J. Des­pot, '45, 517 Market, Shrc\*eport, La. 
MAINE 

WiUiam M. Salter, '57, 34 Windsor Ave., Augtista, Maine. 
MARYLAND 

Baltimore—^William L. Gaudrcau, *53, Professional Bldg., 330 N. Charies St., Baltimore 1, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS 
Berkshire County—Frank M. Linehan, '45, 29 Burr Dr., Dalton, Mass. Boston—Comclitis Fowler, '47, 44 Gailord Street, Melrose 76, ilas . 
Pioneer Valley—Daniel J. O'Connell, '22, 11 Pynchone Rd., HoI)«ke, Mas. 
MICHIG.AN 

Battle Creek—Raymond R. Allen, '40, 409 Orchard PI., Battle Creek, Mich. 
Berrien County — Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, NUcs, Mich. 
Blue Water District — WiUiam L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. Dearborn—George C. Ball, '49, 7746 Orchard, Dearborn, Midi. Detroit—John R. Fanelli, '49, 22750 West 8 Mile Rd., Detroit 19, Mich. Flint — Walter G. Nagel, '56, 1921 
Castle Lane, Flint, Mich. Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn, '40, Wright & Zinn, Michaels Bldg., Ironwood, Mich. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan 
—James B. Nachteball, '51, 1031 Truxton, N.E., Grand Rapids, Xfich. 
Hiawathaland — Donald T- Ttottier, '44, 601 Ludington St., Fsranaha, Mich. 
Jackson — Cyril J. Hartman, '23, 612 Webb St., Jackson, Mich. 
KalamaMo — Joseph O'Keele, '44, O'Kecfe Motor Sales, 433 W. Water St., Kalamazoo, &Cch. 
Lansing—Robert H. Mooney, Jr., '52, 2329 Cumberland Rd., Lansing 6, Mich. 
Monroe—Hugh J. Laughna, *40, 1587 Riverview, Monroe, Mich. Muskegon — James Moise, *57, 2337 Vincent Rd., Muskegon, Midi. Saginaw X^alley — Gerald E. Carroll, '46, 2124 Sixth St., Bay Citl-, Mich. 
Top of Michigan — Edward L. Molo­ney, '17, 416 East Slate St. Che­boj-gan, Mich. 
MINNESOTA 
Duluth-Superior — James P. Keough, '35 (Treasurer), 2705 E. Fifth St., Duluth, Minn. 
Twin Cities — LawTence W. Shearon, '58, 2820 N. Huron St., St. Paul 13, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI 
William H. Mller, '30, 755 Gillespie PI., Jackson, Miss. 
MISSOURI 
Kansas City—George J. Higgins, '53, c/o Employers Mutual of Wiscon­sin, 210 W. Tenth St., Kansas Citv, Mo. 
St. Louis — Herman L. Kricgshauser, '54, 11700 Serema Dr., St. Louis 31, Mo. 
MONTANA 
Bernard Gralney, '43, 906—11 Ave., Helena, Montana. 
NEBRASKA 
Omaha and Council Bluffs—^J. Emmet Root, '55, 1109 N. 60th St., Omaha, Neb. 
NEW JERSEY 
CM/ro/ —Thomas F. Kenneally, '30, Box 257, Middlebush, N.J. 
New Jersey Shore — George A. Baris­cillo, Jr., *44, 416 Burlington Ave., Bradley Beach, N.J. 
New Jersey —R. Bruce Dold, '53, 9 Femdiff Terr., Glen Ridge, N.J. South Jersey — James B. Caison, '56, 
624 Clinton Ave., Haddonfield, N.J. 
NEW MEXICO 
Riduird R. Everroad, '41, 2323 Mor­row Rd., N.E., .Albuquerque, N.M. 
NEW YORK 
Albany —Fnin]L E. O'Brien, '58, 99 Brookline Ave., Albany, N.Y. B«#o/o — Robert C. Weber, '49, 103 Colony Ct., Buffalo 26, N.Y. 
Ctnlrof—Thomas F. Quinbn, '53, 226 Roosevelt Ave., Syracuse 10, N.Y. Golden Circle—James F. McVay, '42, 49 Parkway Lane, Bradford, Pa. 
Mid-Hudson Valley — Charles W. Beck, '29, 30 Mandigo Place, Neuburgh, N. Y. 
Mohawk Valley — L. Daniel Calbn, '49, 62 Peari St., New Hartford, N.Y. 
New York City — Edw^ird B. Fitzpat­rick, Jr., '54, 333 Emory Rd., Mineob, N.Y. 
Rochester — James S. Doyle, '54, 19 East Ave., Hooeoye Falls, N.Y. 
Schenectady — John F. Hurley, '37, Mgr., Sales Promotion & Training, Gen. Elec. Co., One River Rd., Schenectady 5, N.Y. 
Syracuse—Sec "Central New York." 

Southern Tier — Edwin Bonham, *09, 329 H.imilton St., Painted Post, N.Y. 
Triple Cities — Joseph P. Galloway, '51, 29 Norman Rd. (MR97), Binghamton, N.Y. 
NORTH CAROLINA Donald J. Kclsey, '48, 1II5 West-ridge Rd., Greensboro, N.C. 
NORTH DAKOTA 

William Daner, 'S3, 1106 S. Highland Acres, Bismarck, N.D. 
OHIO Akron—William I. Lammeis, '53, 455 Hillu'ood Dr., Akron 20, Ohio. 
Con/on—Robert L. Joliet, '51, 4610 Yale Ave., N.W., Canton 9, Ohio. Cincinnati—John R. LaBar, '53, 6534 
Glade Ave., Cincinnati 30, Ohio. 

Cleveland — Thomas F. Bremer, '46, 1375 Inglewood Dr., Cleveland Heights 21, Ohio. 
Columbus — John J. Dilenschncider, '53, 2555 Ber%vyn Rd., Columbus 21, Ohio. 
fla>/on—Walter T. Grady, '43, 4888 Goodyear Dr., Dayton 16, Ohio. Hamilton—^Jerome A. Ryan, '41, 353 
South D St., Hamilton, Ohio. Mansfield—hco J. Scanlon, '30, 121 Pearl Street, Crestline, Ohio. Northwestern—James W. Myers, '38, 230 E. Wayne St., Celina, Ohio. OAio Valley — James J. Haranzo, '52, 26 Courthind, Wheeling, W.Va. 
Sandusky — Richard C. Hohler, '47, 2603 Eastu'ood Dr., Sandusky, Ohio. Tigin — Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 
Sycamore St., Tiffin, Ohio. Toledo — H. Joseph Kalbas, '56, 541 Tennyson PI., Toledo 10, Ohio. Youngstown—Charles J. McCrudden, '57, 124 Prestwick, Youngstown, Ohio. 
lllasKa i £ 
UtMaii 5 4 OUbi<feYS.?M 
OKLAHOMA 
Oklahoma City—John A. Hobbs, '55, 
2529 N.W. 51, OUahoma City 12, Okla. Ta&o—Marion J. Blake, '33, 709 Oil Capital Bldg., Tuba, Okla. 
OREGON 
H. Paul Newman, '55, 13145 S.E. Kuehn Rd., Milwaukie 22, Oregon. 
PENNSYLVANIA 
Central Pennsylvania—Dr. George W. 
Katter, '41, U.S. Bank Bldg., Johnstown, Pa. En"«—James P. Leydon, '49, 268 Hen­ley Road, Philadelphia 51, Pa. //orrijiurf—Donald R. Meek, '50. 520 Park Ave., New Cumberland, Pa. Lehigh Valley—Ercalo J. Spinosa, '57, 1124 Kearney St., Allentown, Pa. 
jMonongahela Valley—Louis W. Apone, 
'41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, Pa. 
Philadelphia—James P. Leydon, 268 
Henley Rd., Philadelphia 51, Pa. 
Pittsburgh — Donald W. Bcbenek, '52, 1513 Berger Bldg., Pittsburgh 19, Pa. 
Scranton — C. Richard Marshall, '51, Connell Bldg., Scranton 3, Pa. 
Wilkes-Barre — Raymond J. Sobota, '49, 760 Miners Bank, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
Williamsport — Joseph Orso, Jr., '55, 641 Oliver St., Williamsport, Pa. RHODE ISLAND 
AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS Philip B. Toole, '52, 20 Winterbcny Ln., Scekonk, Mass. SOUTH CAROLINA Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore Dr., Westwood, Charleston, S.C. 
SOUTH DAKOTA 
Black Hair—Bernard Gira, '10, Cus­ter, South Dakota. 
TENNESSEE 

Chattanooga — Herbert J. Haile, Jr., '55, W. C. Teas Co., 1212 Mc-Callie Ave., Chattanooga, Tenn. 
Memphis—John M. Reynolds, '56. 409 Cecilia Dr., Memphis, Tenn. 
TEXAS Dallas —Vonold R. Harris, '58, 4225 Glenwood, Dallas 5, Texas. El Poio—Edward T. Jennings, '53, 312 Olivia Circle, El Paso, Texas. 
Houston — Alfred C. DeCrane, Jr., '53, 4939 Valkcith, Houston 35, Te.*dS. 
Midland-Odessa — John L. O'Hem, 
'37, 1001 W. 25, Odessa, Texas. 
Rio Grande Valley—Robert Azil, '49, 
1205 W. Elizabeth St., Brownsville, Texas. .Jan Antonio — Leo J. Paradise, '49, 119 Timberland Dr., San Antonio 9, Texas. UTAH Don J. Roncy, '58, 320 East Fourth, Salt Lake City 8, Utah. VIRGINIA Leo F. Burke, '44, 900 Blanton Ave., Richmond, Va. 
Tidewaler—Phillip L. Russo, '49, 8033 
Wedgewood Dr., Norfolk, Va. 
WASHINGTON 
Spokane—Dr. James P. Rolchford, '49, West 115 9th Avenue, Spokane 4, Washington. 
Western — Frederick N. Hoover, '43, 2814—40 Ave., W., Seatdc 99, Wash. 
\VEST VIRGINIA Thomas E. Kennell, '56, 1007 Bel­mont, Charleston, W.Va. Central — John D. Julian, '40, P.O. Box 2063, Clarksbuts, W.Va. 
^VISCONSIN 

Fox River Valley—V/il\asa R. Maher, 
Jr., 780 Oak St., Neenah, Wise. 
Green Bay—Thomas C. Muipby, '53, c/o Farmer's Friend, 310 Kne St., Green Bay, Wise 
La Cronr—Donald F. Sieger, '52, 139 
S. Ilth St., La Crosse, Wise AferriU—Augustus H. Stange, '27, 102 
S. Prospect St., MerriD, Wise 
Milwaukee — Robiert L. Grogan, '37, 7227 Aetna Ct., MUwaukee, Wise. 
Northwest Wisconsin — C. T. Downs, 
'33, 219'/^ S. Barstow, Eau Claire, Wise. 
South Central-John W. Roach, '27, 
138 Glenway St., Madison, Wise. Southeastern — Edwin E. Raymond, Jr., '49, 2820 21 St., Radne, Wise. 
WYOMING Patrick H. Mranan, '49, Midwest Bldg., P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. 
FOREIGN CLUBS 
Bengal, hdi^—'Rts. John W. Kane, 
C.S.C., '24, Morcau House, 28 Zin­rl^l,:ihar Lauc, Dacca, East foUstan. 
Canada —Viui H. LaFtamboise, '34, 400 Charest Blvd., Quebec, Canada. 
ChUe — Rev. Frands A. Fiovenzano, C.S.C., '42, St. George's College, Aven, Pedro de Valdivia 1423, San­tiago, Chile. 
Ecnaiior—John Moellcr, '47, P.O. Box 213, Quito, Ecuador. 
Germany — Charles A. Hickman, '58, Schellingstrass« No. 81, Munich, Germany. 
Manila — Conrado Sanchez, Jr., *54, 83 Mayon St., Quezon City, Phil­ippines. 
Mexico City—Telmo De Landero, *37, Eugenio Sue No. 220, Mexico City, Mexico. 
Panama—Lorenzo Romagoza, '45, Box 3393, Panama, Rep. of Panama. 
Peru—Enrique Lulli, '45, Cuzco 440, Lima, Peru. 
Puerto Rico — Paul McManus, '34 (Vice-Pres.), CaUe Earie No. 4, Condado, Santurce, Puerto Rico. 
Rome — Vincent G. McAloon, '34 (Secretary), I^lazzo Brancacdo, Largo Brancacdo, 82, Rome, Italy. 
Clubs 

Akron 
SecretaD* EDDIE BUTLER reported in March that the brother-in-law of President BILL LAM­MERS, FR. JOHN RAUB, '56, was soon to be ordained. 
Ed also advised that FRANK STEEL, '25, had invited his classmate JIM CROWLEY to Akron for Universal Notre Dame Night on April 23, There will be a follow-up on this mcctlns and on Akron's 1963 Notre Dame Man of the Year in the next 
Alabama 
Athletic Director EDWARD KRAUSE visited Ala­bama Club alumni for Universal Notre Dame Night in Birmingham, May 1, on the invitation of JOHN 
A. O'BRIEN, JR. 
Atlanta 
President ROBERT F. HOCHMAN of the Atlanta Club arranged to have FR. EDMUND JOYCE, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University, as a guest on Universal Notre Dame Night, May 23. 
Baltimore 
The annual Scholarship Ball on February 2 was in the hands of Vice-President BILL KEARY. Held 
ALUMNI CENSUS on the eve of Universal Notre Dame Night revealed nearly 29,000 at the Catons^-ille Armory to the music of Gil Mon­
roe's orchestra, it was just the be^nning of the 
laymen in the U.S., including 12 in Alaska and 34 in HawaiL It did not include 
Baltimore Club's spring schedule of events. On 
about 4,000 priests, religious, and overseas laymen as of April, 1963. Sunday, Afarch 24, N D men and their wives par> 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 IX^ 
CALUMET REGION — Taking part at left in Anthony Kuharich's award as Calumet's NJ). Man of the Year were (l.-r.): David Ogrcn, Club president; Judge Luther M. Sw>-gert, U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, who won the award in 1952; Tony Kuharich, and Father Joyce, University vice-president. Center, Kuharich as Calumet Region treasurer makes a Club contribution to Challenge Program Chairman William Tra\TS (Ogren's in foreground). At right. Club scholarship winner Louis Senko (second from left) is 
introduced to Father Joyce by Dave Ogren 
ticipated in an informal cocktail party at BERNIE 
LEE's Pcnn Hotel Pub Room in Towson. BOB 
BLAIKIE W3S chairman. On Tuesday, April 16, in 
the Park Plaza Hotel Dining Room, was held the 
first in a new series of stag luncheons, to be held on 
the third Tuesday of every month. President BILL -GAUDREAU issued invitations. 
Secretar>'-Chainnan TOM SHINE put out the 

call for Universal Notre Dame Night on Wednesday, 
May 1, in the Main Ballroom of the Sheraton-
Belvedere Hotel. The event featured Most Rev. T. 
Atistin Murphy, Auxiliary Bishop of Baltimore, as 
the principal speaker on the theme of Notre Dame 
Patriotism and FR. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, 
C.S.C., as campus guest describing preparations for 
Notre Dame Day at Gctt^-sburg, June 29. 
Berkshires 
About 15 Club Members met at Past President 

JIM 0*BRIEN*s house on March 22, to dbcuss fmal 
arrangements for Universal Notre Dame Night, and 
for discussion of the club's participation with the 
Springfield, Massachusetts and Schenectady, Ne%v 
York Clubs in having an area send-off for students 
in the fall. 
UND Night was held at Pittsficld's Wendell-Sherwoud Hotel, April 15, with about 60 alumni, friends, and guests attending. FATHER THORN­TON, University Placement Director, gave the main address in which many little known and interesting incidents of the University's history were brought out. ED REAG.-\N was general cliairman and toastmaster, with BOB FRUILA. ticket chairman and RAY PAINLEY publicity chairman. Club President FRANK LINEHAN addressed the group witli acknowledgments and thanks to the members for a most active year and the anticipation of a fine year of acti\*ities ahead. 
DR. JOE WILK's committee for selection of tlie 

outstanding scholar-attiletc of Berkshire County for 
receipt of the Father Hesburgh award for excel­
lence selected Mark Foopor of Dalton Wahconah 
Regional High School. Mark was a three-letter 
man in high school athletics while maintaining 
membership in the National Honor Society. He 
w*ill enter Boston College in the fall. 
After a lapse of several years, the return of the football team to the Northeast is being planned for by DAVE KLINE and DR. BERNIE AUGE. The Berkshire area will be well represented at the action against Syracuse at New York's Yankee Stadium on Thanksgiving Day, 
—RAYMOND P. PALNLEY, Secy. 

Boston 
At the Annual General Meeting of the Club the nominating committee presented the following slate of ofiScers for 1963-64 which was approved with­out opposition; President, CORNELIUS A. FOWLER, *47, Melrose; \^ce Prcs., JAMES W. MURPHY. *56. MiUb; Sec*y., CHARLES F. OOLTON, '29, Taunton, and PHILIP PHILBIN. *58, Clinton; Trcas., THOMAS REID, '25. J. HAR­RY MARK. »37, CHARLES W. POWERS. *45, 
J4 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July, 1963 
 and Robert Welsh, Club wee-president, on 
and RICHARD P. HYLAND, '50, were elected to 
open spots on Board of Governors. 
The Annual Universal Notre Dame Night Din­

ner and Dance, was held this year at Tiffany's. 
The Committee, headed by Co-Chairmen JOHN P. 
KARLE '56, and ROBERT ^URR *58, included 
all the Board of Governors. Music for dancing was 
provided by a leading local swing group. Featured 
was professional entertainer and sportscaster Bill 
Coleman, and the other speaker was University 
representative OLIVER HUNTXR '42, newly elected 
president of the National Alumn! Board. 
The impromptu reception held at B.C. Alumni 

Hall on February 7, 1963, following the \-ictory 
by the basketball squad over the Boston College 
quintet, u-as an outstanding success. Nfore than 225 
Alumni, friends and visitors from the University 
enjoyed a real gab fest and met the team. The 
Committee for this affair consisted of TIM 
TOOMEY '30, BOB MARR *58, and JIM MURPHY 
*56. Your Club officers handled 300 game tickets 
for those on our mailing list. Over 160 applicants 
for admission to the University ^verc intcr\'iewed by 
a group of Alumni headed by CHUCK POWERS 
'45. 
—TLM TOOMEY, Retiring Pres. 

BufFalo 
Director BOB WEBER and Chairmen Ardyth 

and PAUL BOLLING are to be congratulated for 
a successful Christmas Dance in the Buffalo Statler-
Hilton, December 29. 129 couples attended! 
On Januaiy* 29 we met in the Ca\'alier Motel in 

Blasdell, New York, with JIM SULLIVAN as 
chairman. An unusual war slor\' w*as told by Lee 
Klce, wife of DICK KLEE, '50, who spent World 
War II imprisoned in Santo Tomas University in 
Manila. FATHER BARATTO spoke on the respon­
sibilities of a Notre Dame man. 
Chairman TOM KELLY selected the Lord Am­

herst Motel in Amherst, New York, as the site for 
our annual election meeting. With 185 paid mem­
bers eligible to vole, a record number attended this 
meeting. Outgoing directors were PAUL CAR­
ROLL, JIM DONOGHUE, MATT DUGGAN and 
MAURICE QUINN. Holdover directors were 
JACK McMAHAN, JIM CASEY, BILL LAWLESS, 
FRANK GAGLIONE, BOB WEBER, DON MA­
HONEY. JOE BUCKHEIT and President JACK 
CONSIDINE. 
New directors, to serve for 3 years, were DICK WAGNER, PAUL BOLLING. RALPH ARGEN and FRANK FORGIONE. These men and the holdover directors retired for a few minutes and elected the Buffalo Club officers for 1963-61. They are BOB ^\'EBER. '49, president; DON MAHONEY, '50, vice-president; DICK WAGNER. '53, treasurer; JOE BUCKHEIT. '53, re-elected financial secretary and JIM CASEY. '44, re-elected corresponding secretary. 
While refreshments were served, TOM KELLY 

introduced Father Antoine Attea, assbtant at Im­
maculate Conception Parish, Buffalo, who presented 
a most amazing, unusual and beautiful series of 
 Universal Notre Dame Night in Whiting, Ind. 
slides on the funeral of Pope Pius and the elec­tion and coronation of Pope John. These films were taken by Father Attea while he was studying for the priesthood in Rome. 
Several loyal members have been transferred out of the Club area. JIM HESBURGH, Comptroller for Twin Coach, Inc., has been transferred to his company's Painted Post plant. Lt. J.G. DOUG­LAS ZILLIOX IS now stationed at the Pensacola, Florida Na\'y Base for flight training. 
About 30 men attended our Annual Retreat at St. Columban's Retreat House in Derby, New York, over the Passion Sunday Weekend. Our retreat chairman was again MAURICE QUINN. Father Duffy of the Columban Fathers was our retreat master. A complete list of retreatants will be pub­lished in a later issue of the ALUMNUS. 
Universal Notre Dame Night in the Buffalo area u-as held on April 29 at the Charterhouse Motel on Transit Road. A social hour preceded a delicious roast beef dinner. Chainnan PAUL ALL\VEIN was fortunate in obtaining DR. CLIFFORD FURNAS, chancellor of the University of the State of New York at Buffalo, as our guest speaker. President BOB WEBER and his supporting ofiicers were sworn into office. 
JAMES F. CASEY was named the Buffalo Club Man-Of-The-Year for 1963. 
Mrs. Paul (Ardyth) Boiling is the newly elected President of the Alumni wives, succeeding Mrs. James (Margaret] Donoghue who presented Buffalo Club president. Bob Weber with a $225.00 check for our scholarship fund. 
—JIM CASEY, Secy. 

Calumet Region 
An inspiring message on the University's quest for even greater academic excellence and a progress report on the Foundation program were given by REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE. C.S.C.. at the Uni­versal Notre Dame Night dinner sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of the Calumet Region at Phil Smidt's restaurant April 15 in Whiting, Ind. 
Father Joyce, executive vice-president of the Uni­versity, was honored at a cocktail party by Club officers before the dinner. 
A high light was presentation of the Club's annual "Man of the Year" award to ANTHONY KUHARICH. chief probation officer for federal courts in the northern district of Indiana. Kuhar­ich, a resident of Hammond, is a brother of JOE KUHARICH, until recently the University's head football coach. 
A large crowd turned out to hear Father Joyce. DAVID W. OGREN. Club president, presided. 
Previous "Man of the Year" awards have been made to James M. Morrison. Judge Luther Swygert, Timothy P. Galvin, William L. Travis, Dean H. Mitchell, Col. Walter J. Riley, John B. Radlgan. Bishop Andrew G. Gnitka of the Gary Diocese, James H. McShanc, James R. Morrison and Austin Boyle. 
—AUSTIN BOYLE 

Canton 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Canton held its Univenal Notre Dame Communion Breakfast at " Walsh College, Canton, Ohio, on December 9, President NED AUHONEY presiding. MSGR. ROBERT C. FANNON, Club chaplain, celebrated the Mass in the Brothers' chapel; breakfast fol­lowed in the college cafeteria with BROTHER ROBERT A. FRANCOEUR, Ph.D. Notre Dame, dean of Walsh College attending. Coach Joe Eag­
^ lowsk! of Central Catholic High spoke on the '' ~ Central football season high lights. The nominating committee's slate of officers \%*as ' unanimously accepted: President, ROBERT L. JOLIET, B.S. *51. LL.B. 
, '53; Vice-President, ROBERT A. RICHARD, B.S. Comm. '56; Secretary, MICHAEL A. MOTTER, B. Arch. *59; and Treasurer, PAUL B. BELDEN, HI, B.S. Comm. '61. TTic new officers were introduced during inter­mission at the annual Holiday Ball of the Campus ' Club held at the Onesto Hotel, December 28. The Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on April 22 with a dinner which u-as attended by approximately 120 alumni, wives and guests. The speaker was FR. JA.MES E. MORAN, CS.C. di­rector of admissions at the University. The Trustees of the Rocco Scholarship Foundation were introduced. They are EDWARD A. MA­HONEY, Jr., '41; Mr. B. T. BONNOT. and Dr. 
F. J. SCHIRACK, '46 Tlie Rocco Scholarship 
^ Foundation is a trust fund bequeathed by the late August T. Rocco to enable deserving graduates of Canton Central Catholic High School to attend Notre Dame. Michael T. Rocco, '31, nephew of August M. Rocco, and a Notre Dame alumnus, was given recognition as the inspiration of the Trust Fund. 
The Canton Club's 1963 "ifan of the Year" aw^rd was given to Laurence J. Motter, A.I.A., '29, Architect, for his outstanding contribution to Catholic Church, School and College architecture in 
^ the Canton area and State of Ohio. Notre Dame Night Chairman was Robert A. Richard, '56, who did an outstanding job. —MICHAEL A. MOTTER, '58, Sec>-. 
Central California 
The Central California Alumni Club held its an­nual Notre Dame night dinner for members and wives at Pardini's Restaurant, in the Fig Garden, on April 25. TOM KERNAN, .Mumni Field Secre­tary, was a guest of honor as were several local 
^, persons who are interested in N.D. Those attending with their wives were DR. JOHN 
W. FRYE, '34, JIM PAGLIASOTTI, '36, JOHN CELLA II, '39, MIKE KEYES, '23, DR. GERALD MON PERE. '41, HUB KIRCHMAN, '38, TOM MEEHAN, associate member, JOHN GROVE, '32, JIM THOMPSON, '59, BILL GUSHURST, '49, and HAROLD BAIR, '29. 
—HAROLD B.AIR, Secy. 

- Central Florida 
A meeting was held at the N. Co. O. Club at Orlando Air Fotce Base on Feb. 7, 1963, and a new slate of officers was elected. They arc: 
President, JOE McNAMARA, Winter Park, Fla.; Vice-President, BOB PLEUS, Orlando; Treasurer, LARRY DILLON, Winter Park; and Secretary-, BILL RICKE, Maitland. 
About ten members planned to attend the Florida Convention at Grand Bahama Island April 26, 27, - 28. 
We are in deep sorrow from the loss of one of our most active and bcst-Ioved members. W. MICHAEL KEENAN, 2410 Stevens Avenue, San­ford, Florida, died Thursday, Feb. 21, after an auto accident in Leesburg, Florida. Mike is sur\'ivcd by his widow, Mary, and two children. Funeral scr\'iccs and burial were held in Peoria, Illinob, his home town. 
The first social event of the new administration 

•• was a St. Patrick's Day party at the home of our new vice-president, BOB PLEUS. It was a merry party, and a good time was had by all In attend­ance. The neighbors surrounding the home of Bob Pleus on Lake Lancaster were treated (?) to the lusty renditions of Notre Dame and Irish tunes until the wee hours of the morning. 
The attendance was good, and the Club gave Bob Pleus, the host, a vote of appreciation for a gracious evening. The members in attendance were 
:^ , as follows: Mr. and Mrs. JOE McNAMARA, Mr. and Mrs. BILL RICKE, Mr. and Mr?. BILL Mc-CALLISTER, Mr. and Mrs. DICK AHEARN, Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE RUDOLPH, JR., Mr. and Mrs. DON SMYTH, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN BOWEN, JR., Mr. and Mrs. TOM McNAMARA (associate mem­
ber), Mr. and Mrs. DAVE HOLTHOUSE, Mr. and 
Mrs. DICK PRATHER, Mr. and Mrs. FRANK 
LEY, Mr. and Mrs. RAY ST. GERMAIN (assocl­
ate member), Mr. and Mrs. JOHN GOONEN. 
AUSTIN J. CARUSO, BOB PLEUS, JR., and 
fiancee. Miss Terry Adkinson. 
—WILLIAM H. RICKE, Secy. 

Central New Jersey 
As a result of elections in January, the following officers were installed for the current yean President, THO%L\S KENNEALLY; Vice-President, WILLIA.M RICHARDSON; Treasurer, JOHN MULLEN; and Secretary, WILLIAM MULLER. An interesting and diversified program of activities began with a cock­tail hour on Sunday, February 24, at the Oak Hills Manor, Metuchcn, N.J. J. NORRIS HARDING of New Brunswick was chairman of the event. 
A dinner-dance was scheduled for Saturday, April 20, at the Plainficld Country Club In observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Central New York 
(Syracuse) 
FR. LOUIS J. THORNTON, CS.C, University director of placement, was a guest of Syracuse alumni at a Universal Notre Dame Night dinner on Wednesday, April 17. 
Central Pennsylvania 
Alumni and friends obscr\'cd an early UND Night at the Annual Bishop Carrot! High School Athletic Banquet on April 15 in Ebensburg. Fea­tured speaker for the combined affair was HUGH DEVORE, who was accompanied by varsity end James Kelly. 
—CHARLES G. HASSON, Secy. 

Chicago 
One of the largest gatherings in club history turned out for Universal Notre Dame Night at the International Ballroom of the Conrad Hilton Hotel to hear FATHER HESBURGH renew the Univer­sity's progress in recent years and prex-Iew his Ideas for the future. Father Hcsburgh highlighted an impressive speakers' table that included many civic and militar>- leaders from the Chicago area. "Notre Dame's AIl-.\merican Traditions" was the theme for the 39th annual UND Night celebration. 
NORMAN J. BARRY, '43, turned over the presi­dential gavel to ARTHUR L. CONRAD, '35, at the meeting. Conrad, an executive officer with the Flick-Rccdy Corp. in suburban Bcnsenville, has been active in club activities for many vcars. 
HOWARD V. PHALIN, '28, executive vice presi­dent of Field Enterprises, received the Notre Dame "Nfan-of-the-Year" award. The Winnetka resident 
has long had an active interest In his alma mater, 
and is the donor of the ll-story granite mural of 
"Christ the Teacher" on the University's new 
Memorial Library. Leo G. Carroll, star of the 
"Going My Way" television series, received the 
club's coveted *'Deccncy In Entertainment" award. 
Carroll, veteran movie actor, also starred in the 
long-popular "Topper" series on TV. HUGH DE­
VORE, head football coach, renewed many old ac­
quaintances at the dinner. 
A "blue ribbon" committee of distinguished 

alumni In the Chicago area spearheaded plans for 
the UND Night dinner. Included were AVILUAM 
S. ALLEN, '21; HARRY A. BALDWIN. '37; NOR&L\N C BARRY, '21; JOHN L. BARTOLO­MEO, '47; NICHOLAS J. BOHLING, '31; JOHN 
W. CAVANAUGH, '28; PAUL V. COHANNI, '44; PAUL R. CONAGHAN, '20; PATRICK F. CROW­LEY, '33; TERRENCE J. DILLON, '32; WILLIAM 
R. DILLON, '40; THOMAS C DONOVAN. '24; JOHN W. DORGAN, '29; RAYMOND P. DRY­MALSKI, '29, RAYMOND W. DURST, '26; PHILIP J. FACCENDA, '51; DR. PAUL F. FOX. '31; ROBERT W. GALVIN, '44; ^L\RTIN J. GLEASON, *55; ROBERT F. GRAHAM. '28; DANIEL HARDIN, '53; JOHN P. HENEBRY, '40; JOHN M. HERBSTRITT, '32; WILLIAM M. HICKEY, '42; ROGER J. KILEY, '23; BERNARD 
J. KORZEN, '28; EL.MER F. L.\YDEN, '25; ROB­ERT J. LEANDER, '49; JOHN J. LYONS. '29; FRANK G. MATAVOSKY, '35; WILLL^f T. Me-CAUGHEY, '43; THOMAS J. McDONALD, '49; EDWARD P. McKEOWN. '28; DANIEL J. Mc-NA.MARA, '42; J. HOBIE MURNANE, '44; GEORGE J. O'GRADY, '23; FRANK J. O'­LAUGHLIN, '38; T. EMMETT O'NEILL, '50; JOHN J. O'SHAUGHNESSY, '33; DONALD OTOOLE. '31; HOWARD V. PHALIN, '28; HENRY F. POJMAN, '37; ANTHONY J. PON­TARELLI. '27; JOHN P. PURDY, '34; WILLIAM 
J. RILEY, '41; WALTER F. ROGERS. '44; FRANK J. ROTHING, '48; D.\NIEL J. RYAN, '39; JOHN W. SCALLON, '25; CHARLES A. SCHUESSLER, '28; THOMAS WEBB SEXTON, '33; JOSEPH D. SHELLY, '25; GERALD C. SPECHT, '49; DR. JA.MES K. STACK, '26; and JOHN E. WALSH, JR., '43. 
Another important factor contributing to the large attendance at UND Night was the actmty of the class secretaries and representatives. Club officers hope that these men will show the same zeal in the future to assure large turnouts for the Rockne Me­morial Dinner and Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Included on this committee were: *20—JOSEPH £ . MERRION; '21—\VILUAM S. ALLEN; '22— HEARTLEY W. ANDERSON; '24—T. CUFFORD NOONAN, GEORGE F. BARRY and JOHN P. McGOORTY, JR.; '25— LEO J. POWERS. '26— JOHN J. RY.4N; '27—JOSEPH DELLA AfARU 
DECATUR—St. Patrick's Day party principals, attadung a shamrock-bedecked cake, included (left to right): Jerry McNamara, '60, treasurer; John F. Foy, '34, Ticc-i»csidcnt; Bernard A. Marty, '37, chairman and "Irishman of the Year"; Nick Neiers, *58, of the Board of Directors; and Ambrose C. Moran, Jr., '48, prc»dcnt. 
Noire Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 IS 
CHICAGO — At left (l.-r.) First Vice-President Paul Fullmer, '55, and retiring Prcddcnt Nonnan J. Barry, '43, extend best wishes to Presidcnt-Eicct Arthur L. Conrad, '35, installed on U.N.D. Night, April 30 in the Hilton's International Ballroom. Center shows distinguished N.D. la\\->-ers before a luncheon at the Afid-America Club celebrating gifts by Chicagoans of more than $3.1 million to the Challenge Program, about 17 percent of the national total: (from left) Art Conrad, '35; Paul R. Conaghan, '20; WHliam S. Alien, '21; Robert F. Graham, '28; Judge John J. Lyons, '29; Judge Raymond P. Drymalski, '29; Judge Roger J. Kiley, '23; Judge Norman C. Barr>-, '21; Alderman Nicholas J. Bohling, '31; Patrick F. Crowley, '33; Jack Barry, '43; and John J. O'Shaughnessy, '33. At right, Monogrammers huddled among 50 class reps planning N.D. Night at Johimy Lattner's downtown steak house included (dock­vfisc from John's Heisman Trophy): Hunk Anderson, '22; Carl M. Cronin, '31; Lattner, '54; Ed Moran, *34; Steve Coughlin, '40; Jack Barry, '43; Bob Kigali, '54; Frank Reynolds, '59; Joe Kurth, '33; and Bert Metzgcr, '31. The committee spurred a record attendance at the Hilton. 
and RICHARD L. HALPIX; '28—JAMES A. AL­LAN, ^^^LLLAM K. DWYER, RAYMOND H. MULLIGAN and JOHN W. RICKORD; '29— JAMES E. DIGAN; 'SO-THONfAS J. PUCELL; »3I—EDWARD C. AGNE;\' , BERT METZGER, THOMAS A. CONLEY, CARL M. CRONIN, VINCENT BUSCH, and H. GILBERT SEAMAN; '32—J. BARRY O'KEEFE; *3S—JOSEPH J. KURTH; '34—EDWARD M. MORAN; '35—AR­THUR L. CONRAD and JOSEPH N. AMSCHNIA; '3S—THOMAS E. ADAMSON, JR.; '37— ^^^L­LIAM J. KENNEDY; '38—LEONARD H. SKOG­LUND, JR., and FILVNK R. PRSHA; *39—J. STIRLING MORTIMER; '-tO-STEPHEN F. COUGHLIN; '41—GEORGE D. MARCUCCI; '42— FRANK E. O'DOWD and BILL HICKEY. Also: '43—FREDERICK P. GORE and EDWARD N. MURRAY; '44—WILLIAM J. KE.VNY, JOHN H. MORAN, WALTER F. ROGERS, JOHN P. SEG­ERSON, and JOHN F. THOILVrON; '45—MARK 
A. CRONIN, JR.; '4e-EDWARD T. MIESZKOW­SKI and JAMES E. CRONIN; '47—PHILIP W. McDONALD, JR.; '48—KEN*NETH R. SCHUS­TER, JOHN C. ALLEN, and C. TRA\TS MARSHALL; '49—FRANK J. MURNANE and AUSTIN A. McNICHOLS, JR.; '50— JOSEPH J. ARCHIBALD, JR., and THO.\L\S F. HANNON, JR.; '51—JAMES J. JENNINGS, JR.; '52— CHARLES V. FALKENBERG, JR., and RU­DOLPH .M. UNGER; '53—JOSEPH J. PAGLIARI and PAT MONTROY; '54—WILLIAM D. REY­NOLDS, EDWARD H. BROWN, JR., WILLIAM 
J. SULLIVAN, and ROBERT J. RIGALI; '55— JAMES J. MALOOLY, RICHARD W. BURKE, RICHARD A. BEEMAN, and MARTIN A. CUL­HANE, JR.; '5&-WARREN F. ASHBAUGH and EUGENE F. BRENNAN; '57—\\1LLIAM J. GERARDO, WILLUM C. RIGALI, and NORRIS 
J. BISHTON; '58—RICILARD J. PHELAN; '59— GEORGE N. ROSS and FRANK R. REYNOLDS; '60—JOHN J. BURNS; '61— THOMAS H. BEA­COM; and '62—FRED C. CAPPETTA and JOHN 
F. SWANSON. 
While Fatlicr Hcsbur^h reviewed the Univcrsit>''s over-all picture at UND Night, FR. JOHN W\\LSH, director of the Foundation, brought details of Chi­cagoland participation in the "Challenge" drive at a special luncheon in the Mid-.\merica Club on March 29. He revealed that Chicago :u-ca alumni and friends of Notre Dame contributed more than three million dollars in the greatest development program in the school's 120-year histor>'. Father Walsh said 2,501 Chicago donors arc credited with gifts and pledges totalling $3,116,836. Included in the over-all figure are grants amounting to §1,865,­315 from 130 corporations and foundations in tlie area. In his remarks, Father Walsh disclosed that Notre Dame's special gifts committee in Chicago, headed by RAY DURST, has reached 104.2% of its quota with 146 gifts totalling $2,721,031. The general appeal, directed by PHIL FACCENDA, accounted for 2,355 gifts amounting to $395,8()4 or 99% of its quota. Father Walsh paid special tribute to Durst, Faccenda and cx-President Barr>- and to all those "who through their gifts and dedicated effort have assured the success of the program and the ad\'ancement of Notre Dame." 
The Women's Auxiliary of the club staged an­other fine St. Patrick's Day part>' this year. Mrs. 
J6 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 
H. GILBERT SEAMAN was chairman of the party, which was held in the Crystal Ballroom of the Sheraton-Blackstonc Hotel. The party was for the benefit of the Notre Dame Scholarship Fund. Com­mittee members included: Mrs. ARTHUR L. CON­RAD, PubUcity; Mrs. GEORGE M. MENARD and Mrs. A. R. MARTIN, Reservations; Mrs. R. EM­METT KELLY, Decorations; Mrs. PHILIP J. FAC­CENDA, Cocktail Hour; and Mrs. FREDERICK L. SALMON, JR., Sweepstakes. Board members of the Women's .Auxiliary also include: Mrs. RAYMOND ys\ DURST, Mrs, NORMAN BARRY, Mrs. CHARLES HICKMAN, Mrs. DONALD HOGAN, Mrs. WILLUM KEARNEY, Mrs. JOSEPH MADI­GAN, Mrs. DANIEL A. McELVAIN, Mrs. BER­TRAM METZGER, Mrs. FR.ANK MILLIGAN, Mrs. JOHN MOYNAHAN, Mrs. JOSEPH NASH, Mrs. JAMES O'SULLIVAN, Mrs. FRANK ROTH­ING, Mrs. JOHN SHOWEL, Mrs. A. C. STEPAN, JR., and Mrs. W1LLL\M P. WHITE, JR. Auxili­ary officers are Mrs. CYRUS F. FREIDHEIM, president; Mrs. Seaman, vice-president; Mrs. Salmon, treasurer; Mrs. JOHN J. O'SHAUGHNESSY, re­cording secretary*; and Mrs. Madigan, corresponding secretary. 
A special Chicago Club salute to four members who currently arc ser\ing with the Peace Corps in Chile: JIM FITZGERALD, '61; BILL FOX, '56; TOM PAULICK, '61; and MARTY RONAN, '61. Tliey trained at the University for the Chile I proj­ect, which began July 20, 1961. Jim Fitzgerald now is in Chol-Chol, Chile, working on a community development project. He recently completed a clover-wheat-fencing project in order that more than 50 families might have at least two acres of their own in good quality clover and/or w*heat. Bill Fox works with the Institute of Rural Education in Santiago. He is assigned to the Radio Escuela operation which prepares taped lessons on a variety of practical subjects, which are broadcast over 35 stations to hundretls of rural schools. He already has added 108 new schools to the program. Tom Paulick is teaching math, world history, geography, Englbh and sports at a rural school near Rancagua, Chile. He has started a baseball team, built a foot­ball field to introduce that popular *'lrish" game, and also plays basketball on the town's local team. Marty Ronan works in Santiago, preparing layouts and promotions for Surco y Scmilla, the magazine of the Audio Visual Publications Department in the project. He also works with the Institute of Rural Education, distributing films and other \isual aid material to volunteers and representatives of the lER. 
.^nd finally, make plans now for the golf outing 
Aug. 5 at Elmhurst Country Club. It always is a 
fun event — to say the least! 
—PAUL FULLMER, '55 

Cincinnati 
1962-63 Cincinnati .\lumni activities got well underway on September 4 with the Annual Fresh­man Going-Away Picnic held at Mt. Airy Forest. TOM ISPHORDING, *57, was chairman. Univer­sal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was under­taken by BOB JOHNSON and resulted in a well-attended evening Mass and buffet supper at 
Our Lady of Cincinnati College, December 9. The Annual Scholarship Ball was held at the Nether-land Hilton, December 28, and Chairman PAUL KELLEY, *53, was ver>' satisfied with the turnout. Paul also presented the Alumni Association's Foot­ball Trophy to Roger Bacon High School's cham­pionship team at their football banquet. Plans for spring and summer included a dinner dance May 18 honoring Universal Notre Dame Night, and a stag dinner June 13 at the Wiedemann Brnvery Roof Gardens for election of officers and introduction of new alumni from the class of 1963. 
—PAT SaALLAN, Secy. 

Cleveland 
DON C. MILLER, '25, one of the Four Horse­men, U'as honored April 22 as Notre Dame Man of the Year by Cleveland alumni at a Universal Notre Dame Night dinner in Rohr's Restaurant, at which new officers were also elected. 
In bestowing the award, FRANCIS PAYNE, last year's recipient, said Don Miller was recognized "for years of unselfish sacrifice and scnicc per­formed for the honor and glor>' of Notre Dame." Don has practiced law in Cleveland since 1926. From 1941 to 1952 he was a U.S. district attorney. Bom in Defiance, O., he was a member of the only Notre Dame team to play in a Rose Bo^vl game. Coached by Knutc Rockne, the Irish de­feated Stanford 27-10. 
Don coached Georgia Tech's football team in the seasons of 1925-29. In 1929 he again participated in a Rose Bowl game. His Georgia Tech squad beat California 8-7. Don is past president of the Touch­down Club, Divot Diggers, U.S. Attomc>-s .Assn. and Federal Bar Assn., Northern Ohio district. For three years he has been on the executive board of the Cleveland Bar Assn. 
Colorado Springs 
FR. JOHN A. O'BRIEN, famed writer in resi­dence at the University, addressed Colorado Springs alumni at a UND Night dinner on April 23. Father O'Brien, author of 15 books and hundreds of articles in popular magazines, was enthusiastically received. OTTO HILBERT was chairman of the event. 
Columbus 
On March 19 the Columbus Club held its annual election meeting at the Columbus Athletic Club with forty members in attendance. Newly elected officers for the 1963-4 term are JACK DILEN­SCHNEIDER, '53, president; DON WEILAND, '52. vice-president; ERNIE KLETZLY, '57, secretary; and JOHNNY JOHNSON, '44, treasurer. MIKE SCANLON, '54, vice-president of the Club last year, was elected to the Board of Directors along with PAT CANT^VELL, '52, and JOHN FLENTZ, '51. They were joined on the Board by ROBERT J. KOSYDAR, '53, the retiring president. 
The Qub heard the report of the Joyce Scholar­ship committee. Under the terms of the will of the late Mrs. Joyce of Columbus, full all-expense four-year scholarships are awarded to Columbus, Ohio, boys to Notre Dame each year. This year six schol­arships were awarded to boys in Columbus from a total of over 35 applicants. The Club heard that the three boys who won the scholarships last year ranked high in the freshman class at Notre Dame at the end of their first semester. After reports, a film on the life of Rockne was shown as well as high­lights from the 1954 football season. 
On April 20 the Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner meeting at Prc5Utti*s Villa with over 70 alumni and friends in attendance. The featured speaker of the evening was Judge Joseph VanHcydc of our local judiciary who spoke on Notre Dame's All-American Tradition. Nwv officers were installed, and ART ULRICH, '48, was awarded the Notre Dame Man of the Year scroll for his work for Notre Dame and for the Club during the past year. 
—JACK DILENSCHNEIDER, '53, Prcs.-clcct 

Connecticut Valley 
Connecticut alumni held their annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner program April 21 at the Waverly Inn, Cheshire. Speaker \vas DR. GEORGE 
N. SHUSTER. assistant to FR. HESBURGH and former president of Hunter College, Laetare Med­alist, former commissioner for Bavaria and head of the U.S. mission to UNESCO. JIM FLAHERTY handled the Hartford segment of the state-wide af­fair, planned by groups in Fairfield County, the Naugatuck Valley, and New Haven area, as well as the Connecticut Valley Club. 
Dallas 
J. M. HAGGAR, SR.^ founder and chairman of the board of the Haggar Co., was named Notre Dame Man of the Year at the Universal Notre Dame banquet held on April 16 at the Dallas Country Club. Approximately 200 Notre Dame alumni, students, and friends were on hand to honor Mr. Haggar. ED KRAUSE, athletic director at Notre Dame, was the main speaker and brought all in attendance up to date on the University's academic and cultural achievements. LANCASTER SMITH, attorney, was announced a director of the Notre Dame Alumni Assn. DICK LAJOIE, past president, presented new officers: DON HARRIS, president; WARREN HIGGINS, vice-president; GENE KERVIN, secretary; FRED EICHORN, treasurer. The club was honored to have as guests Very Reverend MSGR. ANTHONY DALY, pastor of St. Monica parish; MATTY BELL, athletic di­rector at S.M.U.; and HANK STRAM, head coach of the American League football champion Dallas Tcxans. Congratulations were given to HAL TEHAN, who did such a fine Job as chairman of the banquet. Tlie Notre Dame Club of Dallas is looking forward to having another successful year in 1963. 
—GENE KERVIN, Sec>-. 

Dayton 
JIM GIBBONS, former assistant basketball coacli at Notre Dame and now assistant to Public Rela­tions Director J. ARTHUR HALEY, was the guest of President WALT D.\LEY and Dayton, Ohio, alumni at a Universal Notre Dame Night meeting held in May. 
Dearborn 
The annual St. Patrick's Party was held March 14 at Dearborn's Warren Valley Golf Club. Corned beef and cabbage, beer and entertainment were planned by DICK KING, \%'hose home was also the site of the March 29 general meeting. 
Officers for 1963-64 are: GEORGE BALL, presi­dent; GEORGE TOBIN, vice-president; and RAY DeF.AUAV, secretary-treasurer. 
Dearborn alumni participated in the Detroit Uni­versal Notre Dame Night on April 17. 
Decatur 
News? We have had five monthly luncheons, an obser\-ancc of St. Patrick's Day and NICK NEIER's ('58, law *60) Universal Notre Dame Night featur­ing JAMES ARMSTRONG. It was great. Also an oversight (it could be humiliating) in not reporting the nuptial vows of Miss Jean Shumate and EU­GENE F. FORAN, JR., *52. 
The St. Patrick's Day celebration was co-ordinated by BERNARD A. KURTY with the Decatur Club's social calendar, a repeat of last year's successful conjunction. A photograph depicts the Irishman of the Day award to Mr. jfarty by the club officers. 
Our Fourth Wednesday Luncheons at the Elks 
. Club have grown in attendance from four to four­teen including Fr. ROBERT HEINZ, '42, from Dalton City and Anthony Jackson from As­sumption. If you are in Central Illinois during the fourth week of any month, please join us. 
Now the report of our new benedict, GENE 
FORAN, '52. ^VILLIAM T. DOWNING, law '57, illustriously best-manned the ceremony, November 3, 1962. The bachelor's dinner could easily have been for the local bar association. It was a gorgeous re­hearsal dinner and a wedding that taxed the timbers of St. Patrick's Church. Its aisle phv-sically recon­ditioned the four ushers: JAMES A. UHLE, *52, Law '54; T. GERALD BOLEN, class of '56; RICH­ARD C. MCDONALD , *56, and your correspondent. —STEPHEN G. GRALIKER, '42, Secy. 
Denver 
REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., University executive vice-president and chairman of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, was guest and prin­cipal speaker April 24 at Universal Notre Dame Night in Denver. Judge ALBERT T. FRAN"r2, justice of the Colorado Supreme Court, was honored as Notre Dame Man of the Year, 
Taking office as president, succeeding BOB ZEIS, '54, was JAMES COUGHLIN, '57. Other new of­ficers are JOHN DEE, '48, vice-president; JOHN MORAN, JR., '52, secretary; and JAMES HILGER, '57, treasurer. 
Des Moines 
On December 28, 1962, the Notre Dame Club of Des Moines, held its annual Christmas dance at the Savery Hotel. 
.\mong alumni attending with their wives were: JAMES F. BOESEN, '54; JOSEPH BISIGN.\NO, '59; PAUL EIDE, '52; F. MARCELLUS WONDER­LIN, JOHN CORCORAN; JOE JOYCE, '54; CLEM R. SCHNOEBELE.N, JAMES M. DINNEN, JOHN PLANALP, and JOHN J. BUCKLEY. 
On January 18, 1963, JOE BISIGNANO held a meeting at his home in honor of FATHER JAMES MORi\N, C.S.C., director of admissions and schol­arships at the University. Father Moran visited with the interested group as to the duties and pol­icies of his office at the Un ivcrsily. Present were JOE BISIGNANO, '59; PAUL EIDE, '32; ROBERT DOWNER; JIM BOESEN, '54; NICHOLAS LAM­BERTO, '38; BOB LaCAS, '57; JAMES SHAW, CLEM SCHNOEBELEN, DR. EDWARD POSNER, JR.; ROBERT CANNON; JOE JOYCE, '54; and ROBERT KURTZ. 
On Mardi 21, 1963, JOE BISIGN.ANO and JOE JOYCE showed the movie NOTRE DAME to a general assembly of the juniors at Dowlins High School, Des Moines, Iowa. The showing of the film was sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of Des Moines, and, as in prior years, the junior class, by their questions and enthusiasm after the showing of the film, indicated great interest in the University. 
—JOSEPH B. JOYCE, Sec^-. 1962 

The Communion Breakfast and annual meeting u-as held on January 27, 1963, at Hotel Savery. Newly elected officers: PAUL EIDE, preskfent; JOSEPH JOYCE, vice-president; ANTHONY H . CRITELLI, secretary; and JOSEPH BISIGNANO, treasurer. 
Others present were CLEM SCBNOEBELEM, WILFRID GILL, JOSEPH LAUFEKSWEILEK, BERNARD KEAN, JACK DREY, BEN CONDON, JOE CASEY, JIM BOESEN and BOB DKEY. 
Our Annual Notre Dame Night Banquet was held April 27, 1963, at the Fort Des Moines Hotel. Coaches and members of the University track team were honored guests. An interesting and informa­tive talk was given by tbe University representative, FR. EDMUND P. JOYCE. 
—ANTHONY M. CRITELU, Secy., 1963 

Detroit 
The Annual Business Meeting was held at the Uni­versity Club on March 18. We had a fine turn­out for the nomination of directors and review of our previous year. BOB CRONIN, '41, was chair­man of this affair. On April 9, our Board of Directors met to elect new officers. They are: President, JOHN PANELLI, '49; 1st Vice-President, LOU BASSO, '54; 2nd Vice-President, JACK MUR­RAY, *57; Secretary, TOM MOORE, '58; and Treasurer, ED GILBERT, '56. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held April 17 at Cobo Convention Hall. The address was given by Joseph M. McDaniel, Secretary of the Ford Foundation. FR. JOYCE from the University re­sponded to Mr. McDaniel's remarks. ED BRACK­EN and JOE MENGDEN were responsible for the fine arrangements for this party. 
Our Annual Golf Party will be held on Monday, July 8 at the Oakland Hills Country Club. TOM MOORE, '58, is chairman of this activity. 
—THOMAS P. MOORE II, Secy. 

El Paso 
Basketball Coach JOHN JORDAN was a guest speaker from the University at the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner in El Paso April 20, held at the Hotel Cortez. W. GORMAN BROCK was chairman of the event. 
Erie 
Erie Club plans for Universal Notre Dame Night were finalized as the deadline for this col­umn ^proached. Hugh Devore, the head football coach at the University, was our main speaker and all in Erie are quite enthused about his visit. Also highlighting our Universal Notre Dame Night was our annual award to the **Man of the Year." 
JOLIET—Gene Funk, retiring president, pours ci^ce for new officers of tlie Joliet Club at an installation luncheon earlier this year: (seated, left to r^t ) Donald Turk, secretary-treasurer; Robert M. Walsh, president; and Wayne Vcrcclotti, vice-president. Club meets every second Thursday for luncheon at the Hotel Loins Jcrfict^ and all alumni are invited to drop in. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June^July, 1963 17 
DENVER—At left, Fr. Joyce, UND Night guest from the campus, congratulates Supreme Court Judge Albert T, Frantz, '29, Denver's NJ>. Man of the Year, while Bob Zeis, '54 (second from right), retiring president, hands the gavel to new President James Coughlin, 
'57, as Vicc-Preadcnt John Dee, '48 (left), and Secretary John Moran, Jr., '52, look on. 
TONY ZAMBROSKI, '52 w-as quite thrilled about 

the arrival of his third daughter, Marian Jane, 
bom March 28. Tony also has one son, John, who 
looks like he might follow In his Dad's footsteps 
on the Fighting Irish i-arsity football learn. JlSf 
EHRMAN, '61, was married to Mary Ann Graf 
on April 20 in Erie. Jim is now working in Wash­
ington, D.C. TOM BATES, 'GO, was married to 
Barbara DeSantis on May II. DON CRIQUI, '62, 
has taken a job in South Bend with 1V5BT as 
director of sports for radio and TV. The Eric 
group wishes Don much success in his new venture. 
MIKE McCORMiCK, '61, local Budweiser dealer, 

recently made a trip to St. Louis to pick up two 
Oydesdale horses from the Anhcuser-Busch Farms 
for the Erie Zoological Society. Mike was shown 
in the local papers unloading the horses. TOM 
GALLAGHER, '55, his wife and two children are 
all settled in their new home and enjoying it verv' 
much. JIM MAHONEV, '51, is considering accept­
ing a National Science Fellowship for a year's 
graduate study at Notre Dame starting In Septem­
ber. 
All the members of the Club express their deepest 
sympathy to JIM SCHAAF, '59, on the death of 
his mother, March 28. Mrs. Schaaf was well known 
by many of the Notre Dame people in Erie, and 
attended most of our functions. Jim is with the 
Kansas City Athletics and was married to the former 
Miss Julie Brockme>*er in Kansas City, on February 
2nd. JOE BLAKE, '61, presently doing postgradu­
ate work at Gannon College, Is back on his feet 
after an operation and in good golf-shape again. 
RICH McCORMICK, '55, claims he will be able 
to take Joe on the links this year. 
New officers installed at Universal Notre Dame 
Night fuacUon were RICHARD T. McCORMICK, 
'55. president; LAWRENCE STADLER, '29, i.'ice­
pr«sidcnt; LEO J. BRUGGER, JR., '61, secre­
tary; and JOHN LOCHTEFELD. '55, treasurer. 
JOE BARBER, '36, and ROBERT BARBER, '40, enjoyed a nice visit ^rith Notre Dame basketball coach JOHN JORDAN -when he was in Erie, March 3], to speak at the St. Jude Society Com­mtmion Breakfast at Sacred Heart Parish, which many Notre Dame Alumni attended. JOE Mac* KRELL, '50, of Sacred Heart Parish, was the toastmaster for the event. JOHN McCORMICK, JR., '53, and family made Coach Jordan's stay one he won't forget. John ^*•as recently elected presi­dent of the Erie SOS (Support Our Sports) Club. If only John would have bowled as well as his brother. Rich, in the recent Serv*ice Clubs Bowling Tournament, his team could have won. JAMES 
B. DWYER, '37, is running for Orphan's Court Judge in Erie County. Jim's son, Jimmy, will enter his Junior year at Notre Dame this September. JACK YOUNG, '51. is among those with high hopes for the Fighting Irish footballers this fall. 
LEO I. BRUGGER, SR., 'M. has been quite busy getting his siunmer home in shape for the connng months. BILL GRANT, '45, is enjoying his work with Penn-Mutual Insurance Company. HERB KERN, '54, and ED KERN, '56, are quite busy at all times with their architecture work. IXW SHIOLENO, '49, made a business trip to Europe around Easter time and immaged to get an audience with Pope John XXIII while in Rome. BOB 
18 Notre Dante Alumnus, June-July, 1963 
WINSCHEL, '51, is enjoying his work with the gov­
ernment. DICK DALEY, '53, was in Erie over the 
Easter holldaj-s taking time off from his American 
Sterilizer sales duty. ^Vhile in town he renewed 
acquaintances with his ND roommate, PHIL HAG­
GERTY, '53. TOM BARBER, '24, made his annual 
sojourn to Pinchurst, North Carolina, and spent 
a couple weeks sharpening up his golf game for 
this summer. BOB LUKES, *49, is head of the 
chemistry lab at General Electric in Erie. 
TOM BATES, '60, and DON CRIQUI, '62, accompanied the Gannon College basketball team on its trip to Notre Dame, February 13, and renewed acquaintances with CHARLIE CALLAHAN, director of Sports Publicity, and JOHN JORDAN. They were also on hand for the Gannon-DePauI Contest on February 19, visiting with former ND great, RAY MEYER. Ray, present DePaul coach. %vas One of the main speakers at Gannon's Sports Banquet on May 2nd. BILL MORGAN, '60, now in his third year at the University of Pennsylvania La%\- School, dropped in during his spring ^-acation in late March. Bill lives in Warren. Pa. JOE HILGER, '60, Director of the Bengal Bouts in 1960, was in Erie for the Easter hoh'days. 
—LEO J. BRUGGER, JR., '61, Secy. 

Eastern Indiana 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated in the Muncie, Ind., area on May 20. Details next 
Evansviiie 
JIM GIBBONS, former assistant basketball coach and now assistant director of public relations at the University, was the guest of President HENRY 
C. DELVES and the Evansiille N.D. Club for Universal Notre Dame Night, April 22 at the Jackson House in Evaiisrille, Ind. 
Fairfield County 
Fairfield County joined other Connecticut N.D. Clubs for Universal Notre Dame Night on April 21 at the Waverly Inn, Cheshire. The speaker was DR. GEORGE N. SHUSTER, author, editor, edu­cator aod now assistant to the president of Notre Dame, ^MLLIAM MULRENAN was chairman for the Bridgeport area. 
Flint 
The Notre Dame Club of Flint held its Univez^ Notre Dame Night on April 30 at the Flint Golf Club. 
FATHER JOHN E. WALSH, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation, was the principal speaker. Father Walsh was also given a contribu> tion to the Foundation on behalf of the Notre Dame graduates in the Flint area. The check was presented by Club President WALTER NAGEL. 
A highlight of the evening's acti\-ities was the selection of OSMUND KELLY as "The-Man.of-the-Year" for 1963. FRED and TED MANSOUR were co-chairmen of the affair. 
—JAMES M. RHADIGAN, Secy.-Treas. 

Fort Lauderdale 
Our first closed meeting was held on January 10th, 1963 at the Governor's Club in Fort Lauder­dale. We were fortunate to have the movies of last year's football games — the first alumn! club to re­ceive them. Prior to showing, the new officers and directors for the coming year tv'ere installed. They are: 
Officers: DON DORINI, '53, president; FRANK 

CAREY, '46, vice-president; BOB McDONOUGH, 
'52, secretary; and DA\ ^ MOSS, '56, treasurer. 
Directors: BOB GORE, '31, BILL MAUSE, JR., 
'53, BILL MOTSETT, '34, CHARLIE QUINN, 
'34, and FRANK .McGINN, '52 (ex officio). Re­
tiring directors Included: FRANK McDONOUGH, 
'41, TOM WALKER, '42, and TOM MURRAY, 
'50. New alumni joining the club for the first 
time included: RAY HE.ALY, '21, GEORGE PAT­
TERSON, '5R (law), and \**ALTER KACZ.\UREK, 
'55. 
PETER K. BARSKIS, the father of student 

Robert P. Barskis, was also present and be­
came a special member. The father of FRANK 
BUDKA gave us a report on his son's recovery, 
and &1SGR. ALLAIS, club chaplain, led in a 
prayer for him and other N.D. men in ill health. 
On February 14th we held our annual Valentine's 

Day open meeting and were fortunate enough to 
have REV. PATRICK PEYTON, CS.a , along 
with his associate, FR. FR.ANK WOODS, CS.C. 
Father Peyton showed films of his crusades and 
gave a background on how his particular movement 
began. We were also fortunate in having Tommy 
Richardson, President of the International League 
of Professional Baseball Clubs, humorist and toast­
master supreme, to introduce Fr. Pejton and give 
the club a few minutes of his wonderful wit. Be­
tween the two the members In attendance (nearly 
100) thoroughly enjoyed and profited from the eve­ning. 
Through the assistance of BILL MAUSE, JR., '53, and his dad we were able to have several of the New York Yankee Baseball team with us as guests. Also the group included Mr. and Mrs. MARCEL FRANK and Mr. and Mrs. TOM \iXT-SON — both of whom have sons'at Notre Dame and are roommates. The following- alumni were on hand to enjoy the festivities: DICK' WHALEN, '42, ED TROMBETTA, '60. JOHN McGINN, '54, FRANK McGINN, '52, PAT LYNCH, '53, DICK BAKER, '53, GEORGE ERNST, '29, BOB GORE, '31 (Director '63), DON DORINI, '53 (President '63). FRANK CAREY. '46 (V.P. '63), JOHN CALLAN, '21. DAVE MOSS, '56 (Trcas. '63), and GEORGE HA&fMERER, '41. 
Plans got underu'ay early for our annual St. Patrick's Day part>-. This year we had Ralph Flanagan and his famous orchestra along with the comedy team, the McCormlcks. DICK GORMAN, '57. was in charge of tlie committee handling the affair. We had a huge crowd of 300 in attendance 
— and ? barrels of green beer. 
This year our Club and the Palm Beach Club were ct>>sponsors of the 1963 con\-ention, held on ^ri l 26, 27, 28 at the Jack Tar Hotel. West End, Grand Bahamas. We had well over 100 reserva­tions from people all over the country. The low price of about $100.00 per couple included air trans­portation, accommodations, meals, extras and FUN. Guests from the University included FATHER JAMES MORAN. C.S.C., and Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD "MOOSE" KRAUSE. In addiUon to a wonderful banquet and presentation of a^v'a^ds we had golf, swimming, some of the best fishing grounds in the world, dancing, native entertain­ment, and everything EXCEPT the usual business routine. Thanks to BOB GORE, '31, and ED TROMBETTA. '60, all of the papcnvork was handled beautifully. Bob Gore consented to allow 
'^•* • the Governor's Club Hotel to be our convention headquarters for the program. 
, —BOB MCDONOUGH, sccy. 
Fort Wayne 
Fort Wayne, Indiana, alumni obser%'cd a Day of Recollection on Sunday, March 31, at St. Vincent's Villa. Rev. Alo>-sius Mchr, O.S.C., was moderator of conferences that began in the morning and broke 
^ for Sunday dinner, culminating in Mass in the early evening. JIM McCLINTOCK was in charge of this event-
Universal Notre Dame Night was held May 7 at Hall's Gas House Restaurant. FR. EDMUND JOYCE, C.S.C., University vice-president, was guc3t speaker. 
Germany 
CHARLES "BUTCH" HICKMAN, until lately with Army communications and entertaining troops in Germany, is out of ser^'ice and working in film production in Munich. He is reported Interested in organizing a Notre Dame Club among alumni in Germany. Anyone who would like to help should contact Charlie Hickman at Schellingstrasse 81, Jfunich, Germany. 
Green Bay 
I" The Notre Dame Club of Green Bay held its annual Communion breakfast at the Beaumont Hotel December I6th following Mass and Com­munion at St. Agnes Church. There was the usual fine turnout of alumni. JOE NEUFELD an­nounced that the club exceeded 100 per cent of its quota of donations for Tlie Notre Dame Founda­tion. 
The Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated April 23rd with cocktails and dinner and a fine program at the Holiday Inn. JOHN BRODERICK, assistant dean of the Law School, was the speaker of the evening. In keeping with good Green Bay *" tradition, the National Football League Champion­ship game films between the Packers and New York Giants were also shown. Named Notre Dame Man of the Year was FATHER JOHN O'BRIEN, Principal of Marinette Central Catholic High School. New officers elected were ROBERT SCHAEFER, president; DANIEL W. SHEA, M.D., Wee-president; 
and JAMES FERRON, secretary-treasurer. 
—DANIEL W. SHEA, M.D., Vlce-Pres. 

Harrisburg 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Harrisburg plans a gala UND Night on the eve of the Notre Dame Mass at Gettysburg Battlefield on June 29. 
Houston 
DR. WLLIAM M. BURKE, dean of freshmen at the University, %v'as the campus guest for Universal Notre Dame Night at the River Oaks Country Club on Wednesday, April 17. Dr. Burke discussed the problems of college freshmen and described the Notre Dame freshman program, unique among American universities. 
Oil operator LAWRENCE J. KELLEY was named Notre Dame Man of the Year. 
Indianapolis 
Archbishop Schulte and Fr. Rajonond Bosler were guests of the Indianapolis Club for an interesting discussion of the Ecumenical Council on UND Communion Sunday. 
On March 30 FATHER HESBURGH was a guest of the Club for a special stag meeting at the Indianapolis AthleUc Club. JOHN C, O'CONNOR was in charge of arrangements. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was observed on April 29 at the Indianapolis Athletic Club with James E. Webb, head of the National Aeronautics 
" and Space Administration, as prindpal speaker. FRED L. MAHAFFEY, *17, former owner of Con­solidated Finance Corp., was named Notre Dame Man of the Year. Thomas G. Sauer and Earl W. Guertin, Jr., were named as recipients of Indianapolis Club scholarships to Notre Dame. FRANK LAUCK was chainnan, assisted by JOHN McSHANE, JIM WELCH, BILL SAHM, BO CON­NOR, BOB McNAMARA, TOM CARNEY, F. QUINN, GENE ^^T^CHGER, LEO BARNHORST and JACK O'HARA. 
Jersey Shore 
The new club's first official undertaking. Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, Dec 9, was a big success. An overflow crowd of members and their families attended the Communion Breakfast at the Empress Motel, Asbury Park. Brother Ber­nard, director of Christian Brothers Academy, LJn­croft. New Jersey, was the guest speaker. JOE RY.-\N, chairman of the event, and the members of his committee did an excellent job in getting so many people out. 
The club assisted the St, James, Red Bank, Holy Name Society in promoting the appearance of the ND Glee Club In Red Bank Sunday night, Feb. 3. The evening was enjo>-able for all and profitable for the Holy Name Society. A good crowd, includ­ing many Shore dub members, attended. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated April 29 with a dinner at the Shadowbrook Restaurant, New Shrewsbury*. Featured speaker ^vas REV. THOMAS O'DONNELL from the campus with "SLEEPY JLM" CROWLEY as an added attrac­tion. *'SIecpy Jim" was there to help honor the club's first Notre Dame Man of the Year and an old personal friend, the late JOSEPH M. BYRNE, JR. 
Joe Byrne, known as "Mr. Notre Dame of the East," ll\-ed in Ncvv-ark, but ^^'as a summer resident of the Jersey Shore for about 50 years. A member of ND's Board of Lay Trustees at the time of death (I/2I/63), he is recognized by almost all Notre Damers as one of the University's most dis­tinguished men. On hand to accept the au-ard was the Byrne family. Including son Dick who Is a member of the local club. 
—BILL NOON.VN, Secy. 

Joliet 
There were approximately 50 members and wives in attendance at the Communion Breakfast on .March 17. FR. McCARR.\GHER was the celebrant at the 9 a.m. Mass at St. Mary's and afterward gave a short talk on general items of interest at the University. 
.\ representative group planned to attend the Universal Notre Dame night In Chicago on April 30. 
A trip later on In the summer is being planned for the members through the Illinois penitentiary at Statcsx-IIIe. 
All alumni in the Joliet area arc Invited to the 

BUFFALO—James F. Casey, director of the Buffalo, N.Y., chapter of the American Red Cross, was honored as Notre Dame Man of the Year in that city on Universal Notre pamc Night, celebrated on May 1. (Buffalo Evening News photo.) 
monthly noon luncheon at the Louis Jollet Hotel every second Thursday. —RICHARD McHUGH, '48 
Kansas City 
As we announced in the last ALUMNUS issue, plans were in the making for a Fdiruary 16th MardI Gras. We are glad to report that the event under the co-chalrmanshlp of Joyce and HAROLD SOLOMON was a great success. Of approximately 126 people In attendance, most were In costume. The awai^ for the best c:ostume in the men's division was earned by BILL DcCX)URSEY, and Mary Lou Farrell won the women's division prize. Special thanks arc due CHUCK FRIZZEU. for his contribution of the door prizes. The unique and effective invitation was designed by JOHN SEE. 
Our fortieth annual Universal Notre Dame night was celebrated, Thursday, April 25th, at the Here­ford House in Kansas City, Afo. FATHER CHARLES I. McCAIUUGHER. C-S.a. vice-presi­dent of student affairs, was the featured speaker. DON SIEFERT and TOM FLE.MING were the co-chairmen of the event. The evening was one of special enjoyment for the representative group of Notre Dame people. 
Hank Stram, the head football coach of the Dallas Tcxans was cited as the "Pro-Football Coach of the Year" by the Rockne Clvb on March 4th at the Hotel Phillips. Under the direction of CR, 
D. M. NIGRO, the Rockne Club President, many other citations were given but this one seemed particularly Important to us. As you know, the coach was once an assistant at Notre Dame, and his American League team is moving to Kansas City from Dallas. 
The "Man of the Year" award, customarily a part of Universal Notre Dame Night, was presented JACK F. \VHITAKER. Mr. Whltaker, the Presi­dent of Whltaker Cable Corporation, has been very active in many Catholic and community projects. The presentation was made by JIM HIGGIN5, the Club president. 
—CARL B. ERFFMEYER, '51, Secy. 

Kentucky 
This has been a pretty hectic spring in Kentucky, what with UND Night, the Kentucky Derby, steam­boat races, primary elections, and all sorts of other club and local activities. But, let's take first things first. 
The principal event of the year for the Club was the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner meeting, held April 20 In the Crystal Ballroom of Louisville's Brown Hotel. The guest speaker for the e\-ening was JIM GIBBONS, assistant director of public relations at the University. Besides discussing the UND Night theme of patriotism, Jim brought us all up to date on the Challenge Program, and the progress being made towards increasing the academic prestige of the University. His talk was very well received. 
Since this ivas the 40th VXD Night observance for the Kentucky Club, the c%*cning was especially significant. The decorations for the event were cen­tered around the theme of the Club's fortieth anni­versary. All of the past Club Presidents and Notre Dame ifen of the Year were gii-cn special recog­nition. 
Two special awards were also given. FR. ROB­ERT GRAY, *50, an Instructor at St. Thomas Seminary, was named Notre Dame Man of the Year, while ROG HUTER, *40, was honored by the University with a plaque for his services on the Board of Directors of the National Alumni Asso­ciation. Fr. Gray and Rog have been cornerstones of the local Club for years, and both deser\'e » real vote of congratulations. 
Following a long-standing custom, the newly elected Club ofHcers were Introduced and took over as of UND Night. The new regime Includes: President, RON MAZZOLI, '54; Ist Vice-Presi­dent, BOB WILLENBRINK, '49; and 2nd Vice-President. BILL SHERMAN, '58; Secretary, JACK ZUFELT. '57; Treasurer, JOE D'ANTONI. '54; Directors. JACK MUELLER, '52, and PAUL MALONEY, *52. Oulgomg President CARL RAT­TER^LAN, '37, is to be congratulated for the fine job he did over the past year. 
After completion of the regular program, the numerous Notre Dame alumni, \t'ive3, and guests finished out the evening dancing and socializinff. Chairman BILL TAFEL, '51, and his committee consisting of JACK DOUGHERTY, '49; RON MAZZOU, *5i; BILL PALMER, '48; LEE STEIDEN, '51; JOE DONALDSON, '23; TOM BULLEIT, '31, and many others who helped, are to be congratulated for providing a memorable evening of entertainment. 
Since the last report, the Club has welcomed two new members: FRED SPATZ, '62, who is 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 19 
currently employed at American Air Filler, and ED SCHNURR, '62, who just returned to the Bluegrass Countr>* from California. I hope we will see more new faces at the future meetings. The Club has scvxral actlWties in the planning stage for the summer and fall, so all you fugitit-cs from the Golden Dome, come on out and get active. 
—JACK ZUFELT, '57, Secy. 

Lehigh 
A unique observance of Universal Notre Dame 
Night, preceded by a Holy Hour, drew 110 of 
the Notre Dame Family in Allcntown, Pa. 
The Holy Hour was held at the Cathedral of 
St. Catherine at 6 p.m. with REV. STEPHEN J. 
DADAY, director of Catholic Social Ser\nces for 
the Allentown Diocese, officiating. A social hour 
follo\%'ed, and finally the dinner and dance at the 
Hotel Tra>'nor. 
REV. JOHN E. WALSH, director of the Notre 
Dame Foundation, made an excellent address at the 
dinner. THOMAS J. MAGILL was general chair­
man of the evening. BERT DADAY, Club presi­
dent, made the presentation o[ the Lehigh Valley's 
Notre Dame Man of the Year award to R. LESLIE 
MULLEN, president of Lehigh Structural Steel Co. 
New officers were announced at the meeting: 
ERCOLE J. SPINOSA, president; JAMES FUN­
ARI, Wcc-pr«ident; JOHN KIRCHNER, sccrctar>-; 
and ROBERT G. STRALEY, treasurer. 
—ROBERT P. DADAY. Retiring Prcs. 

lima 
There was a Christmas meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Northwestern Ohio in Lima, and at that time, new officers were elected for the coming two-year term. JIM MEYERS, '38, of Cellna, Ohio, was elected the new president, and I as secretary'. 
Long Beach 
Long Beach, Calif., alumni participated in the Los Angeles Club's general obscr\"ance of Univer­sal Notre Dame Night with FATHER HESBURGH as principal guest. 
Los Angeles 
FATHER HESBURGH made news with his pro­
nouncements on such things as civil rights and the 
Peace Corps at press conferences before his ap­
pearance at the Los Angeles observance of Uni­
versal Notre Dame Night, April 22, at the Holly­
wood Roosevelt Hotel. President BOB GERVAIS 
invited Father to address a joint dinner of the 
Southern California alumni clubs. 
MORTON GOODMAN, chairman of the awards committee, announced that DR. LEO TURGEON is Los Angeles' Notre Dame Man of the Year for 1963. Three directors were installed: WALT SCHRADER, '38 (replacing AL WELZENBACH), and JOHN K. SKEEHAN, '32 (re-elected), for three-year terms; and TOM POWERS, '56, for a one-year term to ser\'e out the term of ED FOX, who has resigned. 
McHenry County 
•New Alumni Field Secretary THOMAS KERNAN, '55, was a guest at the Universal Notre Dame Night meeting of McHenry County alumni on May 23. 
Maine 
The State of Maine is gradually hibernating from a rough u-intcr which had been predicted in the FARMERS' ALMANAC. We had a meeting with the Executive Committee to plan our summer festive occasions. However, because of the size of our State and the scattering of our 22 members, there was no attempt to put on a Universal Notre Dame night. 
JOHN BELIVEAU, class of '59, entertained at an Easter brunch to introduce his new wife-to-be. GEORGE RESCH, '41, noiv manager and vice-president of Dane-T-Bits Biscuit Company, moved to Auburn, Maine, from Valdosta, Georgia. We are delighted to have George with us. 
It is hoped that the Notre Dame Club will have its annual picnic at Camp St^ailc on Lake Scbago this siunmer. Further details will be released later. This camp is nm by the Fathers of the Holy Cross and is a wonderful place loc Notre Dame fathers to send their boys for the summer for summer camping. 
—RAY GEIGER, Secy. 

Mansfield, Ohio 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was cdebrztcd on December 9, 1962, at tlie 9:00 o'dock Mass at St. Peter*s Church. Fifty-one people at­tended, including members and their families. 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 
PEORIA—^The Ennio Arboit Memorial Trophy, awarded this year to Manual High Coach Ken Hinrichs (not shown), is proudly displayed by some of the Universal Notre Dame night team (from left): John Manion, '36, co-chairman; John R. Powers, Jr., '33, arrangements chairman; H. A. "Pete" Vonachen, Jr., '47, awards chairman; and Charles 
J. Pcrrin, '30, president and general chairman, chosen as N.D. Man of the Year. 
A gala time was had by all at our Holiday Dance at the Mansfield-Leland Hotel on December 28, 1962. FRANCIS COLEMAN, '46, chairman, re­ported 54 couples attended; more friends of Notre Dame look fonvard to attending each year. PETER 
F. MORITZ, '43, Notre Dame Man-of-the-Year for 1962, had his wife present him with triplets on March 4th, Congratulations, Pete; this brings the family to four boys and three girls. 
Congratulations to JAMES J. O'DONNELL, '31, on his marriage to Miss Mar>- Ann Cusic on Febru­ary 23rd. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated on April 22nd at the .Mansfield-Leland Hotel. FATHER JOSEPH D. BARRY, a former student chaplain at the University, gave a fine talk and answered many questions about Notre Dame. JIM O'DON­NELL, '51, was chairman. New officers: LEO SCANLON, '30, president; C. J. KOZAK, '30, vice-president; JIM JURGENS. treasurer; and MAR­SHALL PRUNTY, secretars-. 
—M. E. PRUNTY, '50, Secj-. 

Memphis 
On April 18 at the Embers Restaurant, the Mem­phis Alumni Club held Universal Notre Dame Night with MOOSE KILAUSE as guest speaker. 
The banquet was well attended as the result of the fine efforts of LOU SA.MPSON, BILL PO­DESTA, WALTER BURKE and especially JIM SOLZ.\N. 
Last year the Memphis Club was proud to host FATHER HESBURGH at a dinner while he was on a surprise \'isit to our city. 
Also, AUSTIN HALL, LEO SCHAFFLER, and DONNELL McCORMACK are in the process of organizing a Ladies' Awciliary for our Club. 
—JOHN REYNOLDS, Pres. 

Mexico City 
During Father Hesburgh's visit to Mexico we arranged for a few acti\*itics dunng the short time he had available in Mexico City after his meetings were finished. 
Father Hesburgh said Mass at the main Altar of the Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe on Satur­day, March 2nd, and at the Altar of the Kings in the Cathedral of Mexico City on Sunday, the 3rd. 
The Notre Dame Club arranged the banquet for Saturday night, the 2nd, for Father Hesburgh. 
We mourn the passing away of two Notre Dame men within the last year; thcv arc ENRIQUE PAREDES, Class of 1944 and ALFONSO ANAYA, Class of 1923. We have a birth to announce also, Albert Agustin, son of Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD 
C. LEON, on October 3rd, 1962. —RICHARD C. LEON, '44, Pres. 
Miami 
Miami Clubbers were present in force at the "N.D. International" Florida Convention hosted by Fort Lauderdale and Palm Beach, with a joint Notre Dame Night featuring MOOSE KRAUSE and FR. JAMES MORAN, C.S.C. Congratulations to GEORGE COURY, who had a building named for him at Subiaco Abbey and Academy, Subiaco, Ark., where he went to school. 
Michigan City 
PROF. JAMES DINCOLO of the department of accountancy and College of Business Administration was guest speaker and accepted $250 for the Uni­versity at Michigan City's UND Night on April 27. 
1963 officers are: EDWARD J. DWYER, presi­dent; JOE QUARTUCH, vice-president; E.MMETT MILLER, secretary; and BILL PRIEBE, treasurer. They were installed at the Grasshopper Frolic, win­ter social actirity featuring steaks and grasshoppers (liquid \-ariety), at the Cedar Tap on January 26. 
Mid-Hudson Valley 
After many mix-ups over University guests, New­burgh-Kingston-Poughkeepsie area alumni were re­ported planning a strictly local obsen-ance of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night in May. 
Milwaukee 
FATHER JOYCE uas the guest of President BOB GROGAN and Milwaukee alumni for UND Night on April 18. 
Mohawk Valley 
Rev, John E. Walsh, C.S.C., assistant to the president of the University of Notre Dame, was the speaker at the 39th annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner, held by the Mohawk Valley Club in Ulica, N.Y. on April 18th, 1%3. 
Welfare Commissioner MICHAEL J. McGUIRL was chainnan of the aflTair and VINCENT T. FLETCHER, toastmaster. RICHARD T. TROS­SET, vice-president of the group, introduced the new students. 
As part of ceremouies, Mr. KENNETH F. MURPHY was awarded a scroll as Notre Dame Man of the Year by L. DANIEL CALLAN, presi­dent. Mr. Murphy, a past president of the club, b a 1954 alumnus and is employed by the Utica newspapers. 
—MIKE McGUIRL. 

Muskegon 
Wc very much enjoyed JIH! ARMSTRONG and Mrs. Armstrong as our guests from the University for the local observance of Universal Notre Dame Night at the Muskegon Country Club. We had one of the finest and largest turnouts in the history of our Club. 
The annual club scholarship was awarded to Mike Welch, a Muskegon Catholic Central senior who will be enrolling at Notre Dame this fall. 
The Xfan of tiic Year award was presented to a much dcscrx'ing JIM MORSE. 
JIM ARMSTRONG gave a fine speech and has to make no apologies for being simply an A.6. man in this day and age of higher aoulemic excellence and post-doctoral studies. 
STAN TYLER, JR., and his good wife did such a fine job on arranging the affair that he is the unanimous clioice of all to continue as president for the coming year wth Jim Morse as vice-presi­dent and BILL TARDANI and myself to continue on as treasurer and secretary. 
Already Stan and Jim are looking to a possible midsummer golf stag. —LEO L. LINCK, Secy. 
Naugatuck Valley 
TTie club participated in the joint U^D night meeting described below. 
New Haven 
New Haven alumni joined the Hartford, Bridge­port, and Watcrbury chapters for a state-wide UND Night at the Waverly Inn, Cheshire, April 21, to hear DR. GEORGE SHUSTER, *15, celebrated author and educator, now assistant to FATHER HESBURGH. 
New Jersey 
Our Annual Communion Breakfast was held De­cember 9, 1962, at the Tammy Brook Country Club in Crcsskill, N.J. .^*GELO AMATO, chairman of the breakfast and his hard-working committee, including J.ACK ADAMS of Afontclair, N.J., were responsible for the 325 Notre Dame alumni and friends \%'ho were present. The breakfast followed a 12 o*cIock Mass in St. Thcrcsa*s Church Cress-kill, N.J. 
Our honored guest speakers were Governor Richard J. Huglies and the REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University of Notre Dame. Governor Hughes' theme w*as the educated Catholic's responsibility to speak out on issues of the day to overcome accidental bigotry. He stressed that his obligation is one of many that the lay Catholic has which priests don't have. The Governor paid special tribute to his personal counsel, >VILLL\,M KIRCHNER, past president of the Jersey Alumni Assn. Father Joyce reviewed current programs at the University. He outlined the 22-miIlion-doIIar building program, institution of freshman year, and the qualification of the students to apply for Rhodes Scliolarships this year. 
Among the distinguished Alumni guests were the following: HUGHIE DEVORE, JIM WHITE, M3, JI.M McGOLDRICK, '39, JOHNNY KELLY, MO, ART STATUTE, ANGE BERTELLI, JOE DE­FRANCE, GREG RICE, PHIL SHERIDAN, JIM HANNAN, JOHNNY O'BRIEN, and PAUL "BUCKY" O'CONNOR. 
Among tJic distinguished guests ^vcre: Frank C. Osmcrs, Member of Congress, Fifth Congressional District, N.J.; GENE FARRELL, '28, editor of Jersey Journal; Hon. Thomas J. Brogan, N.J. Commissioner of Racing; Hon. Tliomas Dalton, Judge of the Superior Court, N.J.; the folloiving Knight Commanders of the Order of St. Gregory, Dr. Luke Mulligan, John R. Kennedy, and John .•\gncw; Hon. Leonard Carlson, Mayor of Borough of Cresskill, N.J.; Priests of the Carmelite Order who arc close friends of Notre Dame, Rev. Terrence 
P. Fitzgerald (formerly of Mt. Carmcl in Chicago, now pastor of St. Joseph's Parish in Dcmarest, N.J.), Rev. Joseph M. Moynihan (formerly on Notre Dame faculty as a professor of mathematics, now pastor of St. liicresa's Churcli, Cresskill, N.J.), and Rev. James A. McGtIl (Pastor of the Parish, Cresskill, N.J., jn Tenafly Our Lady of Mt. Car­mel); Colonel Dominic R. Capello, Superintendent 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY—Club President Jim Flaherty, '53, and wife Mary (St. Joseph College *56) present children Laura and Jay to SJC Glee Club Director Elmer Hintz for audition as candidates for future joint concerts like the one given by the combined ND-SJC Glee Clubs in February. 
of the N.J. State Police; Honorable Peter J. Cam­
marano. Counsel to the City of Paterson; and Tom 
Mescrcau, West Point *44, former army football cap­
tain and presently a restaurateur in Bergen 
Coimty. 
.Mr. STANLEY J. PART\'KA, '39, was unable 

to attend due to hb suffering from emphysema. Mr. 
Partyka is anxious to move to the Arizona-New 
Mexico area, should someone be able to assist him 
in obtaining employment. He is working and capa­
ble, but this climate impedes him terribly. He can 
be reached at 30 Jefferson Avenue, Emerson, N.J. 
FR. THOMAS O'DONNELL, C.S.C., addressed 

alumni on UND night. 
—PETER F. REGAN, 'M, Secy. 

New Mexico 
President DICK EVERROAD and Albnquerquc­

arca alumni entertained Alumni Secretary JIM 
ARMSTRONG during a quick visit in January in 
his capacity as president of the American Alumni 
Council. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was observed in 

New Mexico on April 22 with a vbit from highly 
successful Basketball Coach JOHNN'Y JORDxVN. 
New Orleans 
Athletic Director ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE was the guest of President JOHN E. PETITBON and New Orleans alumnt for Universal Notre Dame Night on April 20. 
New York 
TIic Club sponsored two well-attended concerts 

by the University Glee Club in February* — one at 
Slepinac High in White Plains and the other at 
Chaminade in Mineola. ED FITZP.ATRICK, GOR­
DON FORESTER and BILL CUDDY were co-
chairmen. 
GEORGE FRAZIER chaired the Club's first re­

treat at Shrub Oak in Februar>- and GORDON 
FORESTER the second one held in March at 
Molloy Retreat House in Jamaica. 
Representative groups from the Club attended the 

N.D. - St. John and N.Y.U. basketball games and the I.e. 4 A. Track Meet at Madison Square Garden. 
The Club's three divisions elected new vice-presidents in .Mardi, BILL TALBOT lor Nc«- York City. JOE a\LLAtL\N for Long Island, and BILL MURPHY for Westchester. 
FLO MCCARTHY is the new member of the Board of Governors from Westchester, along with HENRY DO^VD and GEORGE WINKLER, HI, from Long Island. 
ED FITZPATRICK began his second term sw Club President with JIM SPELLMAN repeating as treasurer, and yours truly as secretary for another year. 
U.N.D. Night at the Starlight Room of the Waldorf-Astoria was a sparkling affair with BISHOP FULTON J. SHEEN as guest speaker along with DR. GEORGE SHUSTER from the University. BILL CUDDV, '52, was honored as "Man of the Year." 
—GEORGE P. KRUG, '33, Secy. 

Northern Califomio 
FATHER HESBURGH was welcomed royaUy by San Franciscans and members of all the Northern California chapters for Universal Notre Dame Night April 23 in the Mural Room of the St. Francis Hotel. Father had a noon appearance on tclonsion and was inter^ewed in sv press conference at the St. Francis before addressing a couple of hundred alumni and guests in the evening. 
North Horida 
On February 18, an evening meeting was held at the Roosevelt Hotel. Thirty alumni and friends of the University were in attendance. REV, JOHN WALSH, aS.C. , Director of the Notre Dame Foundation, and JI&l FRICK, executive director of the Foundation, reported on the success of the Foundation Drive and expressed the ^preciation of the University. High lights of 1962 football gamci were shown and enjoyed by all. JOHN CORRIGAN, president of the CltUi, outlined plans for Universal Notre Dame Night. All members were urged to support this annual affair. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held on April 30, at the Florida Yacht Club. The feature speak­er was EDWARD "MOOSE" KRAUSE, athletic director of the University. "Moose" gave us an in­teresting talk. Seventy people were in attendance and the evening was enjoyed by all. 
—RICHARD H. BRODEUR. Secy. —LEO J. HAWK, '55, Secy, 

Ohio Valley 
DICK RUWE, new assistant director of the Notre-Dame Foundation, visited ^Vheeling, W.Va., early-in April to address a meeting of the Notre Dame-Club of the Ohio Valley and thank local alumni for having^ contributed more than ^,000 to the %i& million Challenge program of the Foundation) through Chairman GEORGE SARGUS. Nomina­tions were made for new ofiicers, and they were to* have been elected at a Universal Notre Dame Night dinner April 23 at Figaretti's. BOB SINCAVICIC has been active in trying to interest prep-school students in Notre Dame. 
Oklahoma City 
The Oklahoma City Notre Dame Club had a rather uneventful winter after the New Year. How­ever, our Communion Breakfast was a success dur­ing early December. The Breakfast was well attended, and the speaker, a local priest, gave as a good talk on the Ecumenical Council. CHUCK MacFARLAND, a new second-time-around father, broke away from the hospital long enough to at­tend and take down the details for wife, Ruth. RODNEY JANEWAY chaired the Breakfast at,the Oklahoma City Golf and Country Club after Mass at Christ the King Church. Everyone seemed ta enjoy the occasion. 
The Christmas dance was held at the Twin Hills Golf and Country Club on December 27. Unfor^ innately the Chairman, JOEL HAGGARD, had some pressing business, and JOHN HOBBS, our president, stepped in to ably fill the vacancy. We need some better attendance ideas, but those who were there had an excellent time. The dancing continued until 1:00 a.m. with the social hours continuing on to the wee hours. 
The New Year brought cold, sickness, procrasti­nation, and other maladies to the Club. It also brought us some new members in the form of the-JIM SHUETZ family, the JIM DOWDLE fanuly,. and several others. Wc certainly want to welcome all these and many more not mentioned. 
T))c Club held several business meetings and on April 23, a Tuesday, wc held our Universal Notre Dame function. The evening's principal speaker was JOHN LAUGHLIN, editor of the Notre Dame ALU.MNUS. BISHOP VICTOR J. REED of the Oklahoma-Tulsa diocese was also present and spoke to the group. The chairman for the program was WALTER DUNCAN, JR., who did an exceBent job of staging the evening at the exclusive Petro­leum Club here in Oklahoma City. The program was well attended «ath yours truly getting by with the Master of Ceremonies work, and I do mean work. The Man-of-the-Year award went to MR. 
JOHN KIRKPATRICK, a first citizen of OUa-
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 21 
MEXICO—^Among those assembled at an alumni banquet for Father Hesburgh on his recent viat to Mexico City for the International Educational Conference: (I.-r.) Richard C Leon, '44, chairman and toastmaster; Fr. Hesbur^; Pedro Telmo de Landero, '37, Mexcio City Club prcndent; Arturo Gonzalez, Ing. Carlos Soberon, Gustavo L. de Trevino, Fernando Trevino and Francisco Castro Herrera; 
Bill Andres, Fred Voglewcde, T. Carlos Leon, and Bill Walsh. 
iioma City. The Boy-of-rhe-Year award went to Daniel J. HolUngsworth, a citizen of Shawnee, Oklahoma, and a student at St. Grcgor>-'s High School. 
The weather here in Oklahoma has become wann, and we arc planning a picnic for the entire club and their families for early June. So the next issue of ALUMNUS will relate the story of the bugs and other outdoor t>pcs of the Oklahoma \-aricty, 
—J. M. DASCHBACH, JR., Sec>-. 

Omaha & Council Bluffs 
TOM KERNAN, new field sccretar\- for the Alumni Assn., was a guest of President J. EMMET ROOT and Omaha alumni for Universal Notre Dame Night on April 16. The Club has also been in touch with Alumni Vice-President PAT DOUGHERTY of Minneapolis. 
Orange County 
Alumni of the Anaheim, Calif., area joined Los Angeles and other Southern California Clubs in welcoming FATHER HESBURGH on Universal Notre Dame Night April 22. 
Oregon 
Sixt^'-fivc couples attended the Universal Notre Dame Night dance at the Thunderbird Motel, under the chairmanship of PHELAN THOMPSON, *55. A departure from the usual format of Universal Night celebrations, the afTair was preceded by a reception at which FRANK LE.\Hy was honor 
•guest. The former Irish coach was in Oregon on business. Tlianks of the Club go to Tliompson and liis co-workers for a ve^^• enjoyable evening. 
The week previous, JOHN BURNS, chairman, 5iad as our luncheon speaker Mr. HARRY HOGAN, former Bonneville Power Administration counsel, who was recently named as counsel to the Dcpt. of Interior in Washington, D.C. Mr. Hogan out­lined for us the de^-clopmcnt of the Columbia River power plan. This was the second in the series of three spring luncheon gcl-tog«hers. A better re­sponse by Club members should be accorded John's efforts. On deck were DOM CALLICRATE, '08, grateful for a recovery from near-blindness; FR. GLENN R. BOARMAN, C.S.C., Club chaplain; Dean £D.\fUND A. S^nTH of Unii-ersrty of Portland School of Commerce; BARNEY MACNAB, '25; CHARLIE SLATT and MIKE THIEL. both '33; Pres. H. PAUL NEWMAN, '55: and V-P. 
TOM HALEY, '57; BOB BERSCHLNSKI, '57; PHELAN THOMPSON, '55; JAMES CARR MORAN, '56; GEORGE E. MACK, III, '61; and RUSS NIEHAUS, '50. 
TOM HUGHES, '56, has made arrangements for the N.D.-Stanford game special trip, Oct. 25-27. Reservation deposits must be made with Tom by 
-Aug. 1. *'No cashce, no tickee," says Tom. Portland-Stanford alumni are cooperating on this joint venture. 
A summer picnic, probably in July, is planned for Paul Newman's parents' place in Milwaukie. A first venture of its type, it is lioped this affair \«1I meet w*ith enthusiastic response. 
Under the leadership of John D. Bums, '58, re­cently arrived from Eastern Oregon and now an assistant district attorney for Multnomah County (Portland), twenty former students and three friends gathered for the first of a spring (— yes, it is — in western Oregon!) series of luncheon get-togethers. 
As befits an Irish D.A., John brought along as 
speaker the Hon. Richard Burke, neu'ly elected 
District Court judge, who told of some of the 
human problems facing a jurist. The next such 
meeting will be after Easter, and the last in May 
or June. If the Club wishes, they will be resumed 
in the fall. 
Looking ahead to next fall's Stanford game, 
TOM HUGHES, '57, gradously oflTered his serv­
ices as chairman for a Game Party-chartered trip. 
Tom hopes to enlist the cooperation of ^Vestem 
Washington and the Spokane clubs in a joint effort. 
FATHER GLENN BOARMAN, C.S.C., '46, Club 
Chaplain, was on hand to open the luncheon. 
Father Boarman also was celebrant of the December 
Communion Sunday Mxss and spoke of the recent 
changes at N.D., whence he had recently been trans­
ferred to the University of Portland. 
Other newcomers to our area and group who were present: GVPT. PATRICK J. SULLIVAN, '29, Medical Director, U.S. Public Health Service, here for a trick after several years at the National Health Institutes in Maryland; GEORGE L. EDG­INGTON, '56, •who is with Portland Federal Savings & Loan; MIKE THIEL, '33, who is development engineer for Saw>Tr's new dictating equipment; and PHELAN THOMPSON, '55, in sales management with Omark Industries. .Also among newcomers is JOHN S. SERVOTTE, '55, in sales with Crown Zellcrbach Corp. Welcome to each and all of you. We anticipate your participation in Club activities. 
TIic first intraclub marriage of many years was one of the social events of the New Year season when BOB DU'YER. '59, and the charming daugh­ter of PHIL BERTHL\UME, '28, were married with several N.D. men in attendance. Best wishes to Bob and his bride! 
The Club extends its s>-mpathy to PETE SAND­ROCK, '39, on the death of his father in February-. To many of us Pete is the sjTnboI of a real Notre Dame man: faithful servant of the Club through many years of oflices, alv\'ays ready to work, active in hb parish as usher and formerly in the Boy Scouts, bearing courageously personal problems that do not dim his cheerfulness. To him and his ivifc Mar>' Elizabeth we extend our admiration. 
ED 0'MEAR.A, M.A. '40, recently marked the fifth anniversary* of his book review column in The Catholic Sentinel, a diocesan weekly. That's a long time to be rcvietfing books, etc, and re­porting on them. Ed frequently gets in a "plug" for Notre Dame press products. This, in addition to his duties as city desk editor for the Oregon Journal daily, must fill his days with reading and \\Titing 
— no time for arithmetic, Ed? 
And just to prove that all N.D. Irish are not Democrats, your truly was recently elected V.P. of the Oregon Republican Club, as well as precinct committeeman! 
—TOM MAGEE, '32, Secy. 

Palm Beach County 
On December 29, 1962, the Notre Dame Club of Palm Beach County, Florida, held an election of officers for the forthcoming year. DR. BERNARD 
F. O'HARA (Class of *48) was elected President, and JOHN W. DELL (Class of '62) was elected Secretary-Treasurer. 
A formal luncheon meeting was held on February 22, 1963. The Club was honored by the presence of FATHER WALSH and JAMES W. FRICK, execu­tive director of the Notre Dame Foundation. Father Walsh and Mr. Frick told the Club of the progress 
being made on the construction of the new library 
at Notre Dame, and of the overwhelming success 
of the campaign for funds to continue the expansion 
of the Notre Dame Campus. Present at the meet­
ing were: SAM BUDNYK, JOHN AV. DELL, 
DANIEL DOWNEY, JAMES DOWNEY, RO.ME 
HARTMAN, CHEATHAM HODGES, JOHN 
HOEY, EDWARD LEWIS, BERNARD O'HARA. 
JOSEPH VALANTIEJUS, WILLARD MOSS, 
DENNIS CLEARY, FATHER O'CONNELL, and 
F.ATHER WALSH and Mr. JAMES FRICK. 
The Notre Dame Club Convention was to be held 

in West End, Bahamas, on April 26, 1963. 
The Club also scheduled a St. Patrick Day Dance. 

Mr. William Maiis made preparations lor this 
function. 
—JOHN \V. DELL, Scc>-.-Trcas-

Peoria 
The Notre Dame Club of Peoria sponsored a bus 
trip to Chicago for the Notre Dame-Bradley, 
Loyola-Wichita double-header on March 2, 19^. 
We were sorrj* to see Xotrc Dame lose, but two 
busses were filled (80 people). Thanks to DICK 
BENKENDORF, TOM ECKLAND, TLM GOR­
MAN and many others, the hn^kriball trio was a big 
success. Our thanks to FRANK MURPHY and 
ALBERT ZOSKY for the food and refreshments. 
Our Annual St, Patrick's Dance was held at the Country- Club of Peoria on Sunday, March 17. Music by Billy Hill and his Orchestra provided a fun evening for all. JIM McCOMB ('54) was chairman, ably assisted by Joan Powers (of the Notre Dame Ladies Auxiliar\0, BILL 0'HAR.A. ('51), JOHN M.^ION ('56), MAURICE CIC­CIARELLI ('55), CHUCK PERRIN ('50). and BILL WOMBACHER ('51). 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held at Mt. Hawley Country Club on April 22, 1963, with a reception at 6:30 p.m. and dinner at 7:30 p.m. Chairman of the event thb year was CHARL^ J. PERRIN ('50); Co-Chairman was JOHN F. ^L\N­IO \ ('56). Committee Chairmen: Arrangements, JOHN R. POWERS, JR. ('53): Finance. PAUL WEGHORST ('56), and RONALD HEINZ ('57); Public Relations, THOMAS P. LISTON ('40); Awards, H. A. (PETE) VONACHEN ('47), and RALPH E. (DUTCH) JOHNSTON {'30); Tickets, AVILLIA.M B. WOMBACHER ('51). Master of Ceremonies was JOHN E. dSSIDY, SR. (LL.B. '17). 
Guest speaker was JAMES E. ARMSTRONG ('25), executive secretary of the Notre Dame Alum­ni Association and associate director of the Notre Dame Foundation. Mr. Armstrong spoke on the unix'ersal theme — "Patriotism: Notre Dame's AU­.•\merican Tradition." 
Presentation of the "ENNIO ARBOIT Memorial Award" of the Notre Dame Club of Peoria was made to Manual High School as Peoria City Foot­ball Champion for 1962. Presentation was made by PETE VONACHEN to Manual Grid Coach KEN HINRICHS. 
The Notre Dame Man of the Year Award was presented by last year's redpient, JOHN F. MANION. 
Chaplain for Universal Notre Dame Night was Rev. JOHN J. SWEENEY, Diocesan Super­intendent of Schools. 
Birth Announcements: Baby Girl to JOHN SLEVIN on February 6, 1963; Baby Boy to DICK 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 
BENKENDORF on February 9, 1963; and Baby Boy to RON HEINZ on February II, 1963. —JIM McCOMB ("54), Secy. 
Philadelphia 
UND Night was held on May 4, 1963, at a Cock­tail Party-Dinner Dance at the Ben Franklio Hotel under the Chainnanship of PAT KITTRIDGE, '58. Fourth Horseman JIM CROWLEY presided as toast­master, and PR. TOM O'DONNELL spoke. At this time retiring President. BARTON JOHNSON, '48. officially turned over the reins of the Club to incom­ing President JAMES P. LEYDON, formerly of 
'* Chicago and now a real Philadelphian. Jim and Kay arc also to be congratulated on their new son. James Patrick, Jr. The ND Investment Club is doing quite well in finishinK up the year with assets over $10,000. The investment club members have ah%'a>*5 been accused of being old ladies because they buy top "blue chips.'* The '62 market drop didn't bother the old ladies at all. Investment Club Chairman is JOHN HANNIGAN. '41, who abo doubles as an executive — of the Alan Wood Steel Co. in Conshohocken. The Philadelphia Club runs a monthly 50/50 for our adopted member and Copperas Cove, Texas, mis­sionary priest. PR. JIM DONNELLY, CS.C. Wc have had several meetings including one with Father O'Donnell regarding the Gettysburg, Pa., Centennial honoring Ci\'il War Chaplain and twice ND President, FR. WILLIAM CORBY. Thousands arc expected at the 29th of June Field Mass and picnic CARDINAL SPELLMAN and BISHOP 
^ LEECH of Harrtsburg will officiate at the solemn open-air Mass. The Philadelphia Club will host the event and instaU a bronze plaque listing Father Corby's Notre Dame accomplishments near his exist­ing statue on the battlefield. Cn-Chairmen of this event are CLIFF PRODEHL. '.32. BILL ^VHITE­SIDE, '51, and CHARLIE CONLEY. '33. —BARTON JOHNSON, Retiring Pres. 
Phoenix 
Newly elected officers for the 1963-1964 year of the Notre Dame Club of Phoenix: President. JOHN 
J. SCHOUTEN, '48; Vice-Pres., THO.\fAS A. HENNIGAN, JR., '42; Secretary. JAMES E. COR­CORAN, '52; and Treasurer, JOHN P. McSHANE, *55. 
Plans were completed to obser%'c Universal Notre Dame Night on April 23 at the Paradise Valley Country Club with Coach JOHN JORDAN as guest speaker. 
—JOHN J. SCHOUTEN. Pres. 

Pioneer Valley 
Springfield, Mass., alumni joined with those of the Berkshires to welcome N.D. Placement Director FR. LOUIS THORNTON, CS.C . on Universal Notre Dame Night, Easter Sfonday, April 15. 

PiHsburgh 
Our Pre-Lentcn Smoker was held at the Duqucsne Brewery here in the City. The turnout was excel­lent, and all who attended were given a tour of the Brewerv to sec just how this popular beverage is made. GEORGE BRO^VN, our V-P, did a fine job in making the arrangements, but had a difficult time preventing some of our members from taking notes and making diagrams. Following the tour, we re­tired to the Employees' Lounge for beer and mo^-ies of the 1961 football season for both the Fighting Irish and the Pittsbursh Stcelers, 
Club officers, along with BILL McGOWAN, chair­man of the Notre Dame Foundation here, met re­cently with JIM COONEY, the newly appointed Foundation representative for the Pittsburgh Area, at the Penn Sheraton Hotel for breakfast. Jim re­ported on the tremendous success of the Foundation Drive. Jo his continuing efforts, we are confident that he will have the co-operation of prominent alumni in the civic and business community of our City. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated in the Sylvania Room of the Pittsburgh Athletic Asso­ciation. FR. JOHN WALSH, Foundation director, was on hand to provide the complete story of the remarkable achievement of the three-year Challenge Campaign. Another distinguished guest was Mr. OLLIE HUNTER, the newly elected president of the National Alumni Board. The Man-of-the-Year Award went to noted Professor SAMUEL J. HAZO of Duquesnc University. Professor Hazo was grad­uated from Notre Dame with an A.B. in 1948. He went on to earn his M.A. at Duquesne and his Ph.D. in humanities at the University of Pittsburgh. 
published in the near future] are the well-known 
Duan'cry and Other Poems and Tlie Quiet Wars, 
the latter of which was nominated for the Pulitzer 
Prize. Some of his more notable works of poetry are 
"Postscript to Many Letters," "To My Mother," 
"1950-1960," "Canticle For Anne," and "Carol of 
a Bride." Professor Hazo has returned to the Uni­
versity a number of times to lecture and give read­
ings of his poctrj". It was indeed a pleasure for the 
Club to bestow its annual a%%'ard upon a native 
Pittsburgher and Notre Dame alumnus, who Is such 
a distinguished Catholic poet, author, and lecturer. 
Much credit Is to be given to JIM BEYMER for 

making Uni\'ersal Notre Dame Night the wonderful 
success that it w*as. He made a fine chairman. 
The annual Communion Breakfast was held on 

May 26 at the Hilton Hotel. MSGR. McDOWELL 
was our guest speaker. It also was a successful en­
gagement due to the efforts of AL GROSS. 
Arrangements have been made for Club members 

to attend the Mass which was arranged by FR. 
THOMAS O'DONNELL at the Gettysburg BatUe­
field on June 29, 1963, during the weekend on 
which the Nation will commemorate the Centennial 
of the Civil War. The Mass will be offered In honor 
of those priests of Notre Dame who ser\ed both 
God and Country during the Civil War. 
Other Club actn-ities in the offing are the annual 

Golf Outing and the Swimming Party which will 
be reported on at a later date. 
JIM SMITH, '53, became executive director of the Allegheny County Bar Association on the first of this year. It is his function to act as the ad­ministrator and coordinator of Bar Association ac­tivities. He b also kept quite busy editing the various legal publications oJ the Association, and fostering harmonious public relations both within and without the County Bar. While the work load is hea%Y, Jim loves the job and the people with whom he comes in contact. 
^MICHAEL J. BOYLE, Sccj-. 

Rhode island & S.E. Mass. 
The members of the Notre Dame Club of Rhode Island and Southeastern Ma-iuachusetts sponsored a concert by the Notre Dame Glee Club on Februar>­7, 1963, at Bishop Heudrlcken High School in Wanvick, R.I. Club President PHIL TOOLE, '52, and past president JIM McMULLEN, '36, were co­cliatrmen. V-P. ED DENNING, '5D. was in charge of tickets and Treasurer AL GRZEBIEN, '49, took care of the reception after the concert for the Glee Club members, alumni and their friends. JIM MURPHY, '49, headed the program committee, while DICK DELMONTE, '54, took charge of mailings. 
The alumni were not surprised to find the Glee Club, under Prof. DANIEL H. PEDTKE, is still as great a group as when we were students. We and our nonalumnt friends thrilled to the beauti­ful singing of the thirty-eight young men who make up the "Singing Irish." Our pride in them was more than justified. The location of the con­cert. Bishop Hendrickcn High School, is the newest boys' Catholic high school in Rhode Island and is run by the Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Flans were for Universal Notre Dame Night to be held about April 24, 1963. Elections for new Club officers for the coming year were held in May. Results will be ann'»<in(-'-d. 
—RICHARD F. DELMONTE, Seo*. 

Rochester 
The annual business meeting was held on Blarch 

11 at the University Club. President JOHN CASEY 
conducted the meeting, assisted by Treasurer TOM 
FENTON and Secretary TOM HURRAY. Officers 
for the coming year were elected: Preudent, JIM 
DOYLE; Vice-President, VINCE DOLLARD; Secre­
tary, DAVE SAMUELSON; and Treasurer, TOM 
FENTON. 
These new officers officially took office at the 

Univrrsal Notre Dame Night Dinner, with FR. 
LOUIS THORNTON as guest on April 18. The 
status of the Scholarship Fund was described by 
CHJ\RLI E O'BRIEN, who pointed out that the 
first scholarship should be awarded in about 19^.' 
After the formal meetingy the movie "Football 
Highlights of 1961" was shown. 
—THOMAS J. MURRAY, Secy. 

Rome, Italy 
With the J. ARTHUR HALEYS as our rank­

ing St. Patrick's Night guests, we prepared for the 
arrival of the Third Notre Dame Alumni European 
Pilgrimage. 
Gain and loss: LUIS SUMMERS PAGADOR '61 has returned from Peru to continue his career in architecture. At Loyola U. of Chicago, (Rome campus) are our NDers: STEVE STAPP, MARK KORB, DICK RASSEL, and GRAHAM, aU '64. plus others still hiding out. Properly Saniiag these are St. Mary's-Loyola co-eds, Dianne Butcher, Christine Floyd, Mary Ann Cumes, and Susanna Hayes. We lose HUGH T. MURPHY '39 who has accepted a post with NCWC Relief Services ia Dacca, Pakistan, where once again he has a flock of Holy Cross priests to watch over him. AL BAILEY '31 returns to the US from teaching lor 
U. of Md. in Italy. JOHN McGRAW '61 wind» up work in philosophy at Angellcum U. to teacb at Marygrove College, Detroit. Our futuristic meiD­ber JIM MURRAY '67 is now on campus at ND. A special-benefactor "catacomb" member commut­ing regularly via T^VA is Capt. Larry Murchan, father of LARRY MURCHAN '66. 
Ex Libris — Guest Book: ART BARILLE '61; father of NORBERT '56 and WILFRED '58 DI CAMELLIA; mother of FR. JAMES CONNELLY, CS.C; son of ROBERT LEGEDER 'St: DICK REAMER '53; Mr. and Mrs HUBERT RICKER '19, SMC '24; TOM FARRELL, JR. '58, son of TOM '26; JOHN TREANOR '59; mother of MICHAEL BURKE '53; DR. SAMUEL FOX '50; parents of FR. ROBERT FALK '51; JIM GRIFFIN '59; MSGR. FRANCIS J. SMYTHE '53-55, Anti­gonish. with FR. EVERETT McNEIL '58; ENS­FRANCIS O'BRIEN '60: LT. DAVID OTTE '60, Tex, son of JOE GRIFFIN, '28; parents of TIM TAYLOR '62; GEORGE JACKOBOICE '31 and Mrs., parents of GEORGE JR. '63 and JOHN '66; BRIAS DIBBLE '64 and brother of JOHN AURTIN '62; sister of CHARLES TILLEY '55, and sister of DAVID MENZIE '62. 
Most colorful and gone-native guest: TOM KENNEDY '42, editor of The Official Catholic Directory, strolling to his hotel after St. Patrick's Night with his green paper hat In hand, and cover­ing Rome on the adventurous rear seat of a snort­ing scooter. 
Our fraternal thanks to ED FISCHER '37, Dept. Communication Arts, ND, for his AVE MARI.A article on our Rome ND Hospitality Center. 
NEW JERSEY—^Among the personalities at a Northern Jersey Commuiuon breakfast at Tammy Brook Country Glub^ Creskill: (left to right) the late Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., 
At the present time. Professor Hazo is an associate University trustee, in his last public appearance; New Jersey Governor Richard J. Hu^cs; 
professor of English at Duqucsne and associate dean 
Fr. Joyce, executive vice-president of the University; and Angelo B. Amato, 
of the School of Arts and Sciences. Two of his books 
which have been published (three others will be chairman of the event, attended by myriad public and sports figures. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 23 
NEW YORK — Twenty-four members attended one of the New York City Club's annual retreats, a three-day closed retreat held over the weekend beginning February 7 at Loyola Seminary, Shrub Oak, N.Y., imder the chairmanship of George Frazier. 
issue of Jan. 26. Evcr>-one is welcome at: NOTRE DAME CENTER, LARGO BRANCACCIO 82, Tel: 
730.002. When in Rome, drop in. —VINCE McALOON '34, Secy. 
Sacramento 
AL KAELIN, *53, was elected president for 1963. Other officers are GENE MEUNIER, '33; LARRY jRICHARDS, '61; DENNY NOLAN, '60; and DICK SAPP, '60. New directors are DON MA­3>ONE, '52; GIL ZIMMERMAN, '42; DICK VAN­DER^VEGEN, '47; and BILL DALY, '41. 
The Annual Christmas Party at Edward's Motel on the ninth of December was enjoyed by all who cut their way through the fog. JIM MIKACICH, '62, made his way from the University of Cali­fornia at Berkeley, where he is doing graduate work. Mar^- Ellen and JACK MULLEN, '34, and DR. DKS TOBIN and his >vife kept the party in high spirits throughout the evening. 
Many of the alumni in the area arc working on some of the most advanced propulsion systems for the space age at the Aerojet-General Corporation's Liquid or Solid Rocket Plant. They include: WALTER GOFF, '28; BOB BRESKA, MIKE HENDERSON, '60; DALE DRINKWATER, DON MALONE, '32; BOB KNAPP.MAN, '33; DENNY NOLAN, '60; and JIM T\VOHY, '57. Senice per­sonnel in the area include Capt. CLIFF COLLINS, '51, and his wife, Anne, stationed at Mather AFB; 1/Lt. RON JOSEPH, '60, at McClellan AI^; and 1/Lt. DICK SAPP, '60, and his wife Arclene, at the Air Force Office at Aerojet. 
Plans were completed for Universal Notre Dame 

Night at Statci^s Heidelberg on Wednesday, April 
24. Mr. TOM KERNAN, alumni field secre­tary, was speaker. And the First Annual Notre Dame Club of Sacramento Picnic was held at Carmichael Park, Sunday, May 26. 
—RICHARD S. SAPP, Secj-. 

St. Joseph Valley 
Valley Clubbers had a gala UND Night May 8 at the Morris Inn. Chairman-M.C. JOE DILLON introduced the guest of the evening, Chicago's Air Force General JOHN HENEBRY, '40, for an ab­sorbing if somewhat grim presentation on N.D. patriotism, past and future. Past President BOB CAHILL, '34, was honored for his years of service as Notre Dame Man of the Year, and President­elect JOE HICKEY, '50, ushered in a new ad­ministration to succeed the very successful one 
of JERRY HAMMES, '53. 
On May 11 Chairman TOM H<\NLON, assisted by Cabin and DICK CLEARY, staged a fine Var­sity-Old-Timcrs spring football. Tlie veterans, coached by BILL BARLEY, were shellacked by the HUGH DEVORE Varsity, 47-0, but the game showed some line betwecn-lhe-twenties play by oldsters DARYLE L.AMONICA, ED RUTKOWSKI, BILL WIGHTKIN, RED MACK, and new coach GUS CIFELLI. 
St. Louis 
The Notre Dame Club of St. Louis held a Gen­

eral Meeting at the Immaculata Church Hall on 
March 25th. A general discussion was made of the 
Club's actiWties and scholarship program. Movies 
were shoit'n and refreshments 5erv*ed. 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club \'isitcd St. Louis on Saturday, March 30th, and played the St. Louis 
U. Rugby Club. BOB MIER, a junior and St. Louisian, is the captain of the team and he led them to a 8*3 \ictory over the Billikens. A dance was given that evening for the mcmben of both teams. Congratulations to the team for their fine performance. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July, 2963 

A meeting of the Board of Advisors was held at Schncidhorst's Restaurant on Wednesday, April 3rd. Its purpose was to discuss at further length the many objectives of our club and to attempt to plan a better organization for the future. Many excellent ideas were presented and several com­mittees were formed to look into \'arious proj­ects and report back to the board in the near future. The meeting was under the leadership of our president. JAMES A. PUDLOWSKI *34. 
Tlic annual Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated in St. Louis on Tuesday, April 23rd, at the LeChateau. FR. CHARLES .McCARRAGHER, C.S.C., Wee-president of student affairs, was our guest of honor from the University. The St. Louis Club's "Man of the Year for 1963" was given to THOMAS J. ^\^^^^E *37, who is our special gifts chairman for the Notre Dame Foundation. A special award \*as made to \L\URICE J. CAR­ROLL '19 for his service to the alumni on the Na­tional Alumni Board. Placques were awarded ROBERT F. CHICKEY '54 and JAMES A. PUD­LOWSKI '54 for their ser\icc as president of the St. Louis Club for the respective years of 1961-62 and 1962-63. 
The new members of our Board of Directors were announced. They are JOHN BOYCE '60, BILL OTTEN '62, JIM COMBS '46 and JACK CROWLEY '57, The new officers for 1963 arc: HERMAN L. KRIEGSHAUSER '54, president; JERRY McGLYN'N '61, vice-president — Activities; JOHN J. PHELAN '56, vice-president — Uni­versity Relations; JACK CROWXEY *57, vice-president — Public Relations; and CONNIE LANE '57, sccrctarv'-treasurer. The St. Louis Club looks fonvard to this coming year. Plans are now being made for our annual Sports Night to be held in June. 
—HERMAN L. KRIEGR\USER, '54, Pres. 

St. Petersburg-Tampa 
Gulf Coast alumni participated in the Florida 

N.D. International Convention and Notre Dame Night hosting MOOSE KRAUSE and FATHER MORAN of Notre Dame on West End, Bahamas, the weekend of May 26. 
Salina 
Tiie Salina, Kansas, Notre Dame Club celebrated the 40th annual Universal Notre Dame Night on Thursday, April 25, at the Holiday Inn. Alumni and wives, parents of students and friends of Notre Dame heard a talk by JOHN LAUGHLIN, man­aging editor of the ALUMNUS. President JOHN BROWNE cliaired the meeting, assisted by .•\L SCHWARTZ and BOB McAULIFFE. The Club and Secretary NORB SKELLEY turned over con­tributions to the University, rounding off thousands given by the 12-member organization during the Challenge Program. 
San Antonio 
Alamo area alumni, under president LEO J. PARADISE, welcomed Coach JOHN JORDAN as a speaker for UXD Night on April 18. 
San Diego 
The Notre Dame Club of San Diego held their annual business meeting in March at the Blessed Sacrament Church Library. This Is the parish of a famous San Diego Alumnus Rt. Rev. IklSGR. FRANCIS C OTT, *15. The meeting was well attended with a lively discussion on the spiritual and temporal aims of the club highlighting the program. 
Following arc the names of the officers elected 

to guide the club for 1963 and a tentative program 
for the yean 
1963 Club OfHcers: President, CHRIS COHAN '54, '57; Vice-President, DON LOPHER '35; Secretary-, iL\RV RICKLING '52; 2nd Secretary, JOHN MURPHY '51; Treasurer, JERRY BRAIN­NERD '52, *56; Chaplain, Rt. Rev. MSGR. FRAN­CIS C. OTT, '15. 
1963 Club Program: April, Universal Notre Dame Night; June, Business ^Iccting; June, Golf Day; July, Beach Party; August, Picnic & Send-OfF for Students; October, Football Smoker; October, Foot­ball Trip (Tentative); November, Dinner Dance; December, Universal Notre Dame Communion Sun­day; January, Annual Business Meeting; March, Retreat or Day of Recollection. 
On Thursday, April 25, 1963, nearly one hundred Notre Dame Club of San Diego members, their wives and friends, met at the historic Hotel Del Coronado to pay tribute to the University of which they arc so justly proud. 
Those present were treated to an interesting program %vhich featured "Words From the Cam­pus" delivered by JOHN JORDAN, head basket­ball coach of Notre Dame, and a history of the Notre Dame Club of San Diego by WINFIELD DAY, '36, the first president of the Club. The tension of the evening was broken as General FRANCIS P. MULCACHY (retired) was pre­sented the Notre Dame "Man of the Year" award. 
—MAR\TN W. RICKLING, Secy. 

Son Fernando Valley 
Members joined the Los Angeles Club in wel­coming FATHER HESBURGH for UND Night on April 22. 
At the March meeting of the Board of Directors of the San Gabriel Valley Notre Dame Alumni Club, the following officers were elected: ^VIL­LUM T. HUSTO.N. president; DONLEY BRADY, secretary; and J. ALBERT TORRIBIO, treasurer. 
All of the five Los Angeles area clubs participated in the Universal Notre Dame Night April 22, but each of tis is planning our separate summer social functions. 
—^\^LLIAM T. HUSTON, Pres. 

Schenectady 
We had about 100 people at our Universal Notre Dame night dinner here in Schenectady on April 16 with FR. LOU THORNTON, C.S.C., as a guest from campus. 
We presented the Notre Dame Man of the Year award to our district attorney, D. VINCENT CERRITO, and received a great deal of favorable publicity not only in the Schenectady papers but in all the area papers including those in Albany. Many of our Notre Dame friends from .Albany, Troy, Glens Falls and Saratoga turned out for this annual event. 
Our General Chairman \vas PETE JANDROSE-VrrS, *59, and he did a magnificent job — ably abetted by BOB PIORKO^VSKI, '54, publicity chairman; and ED DcBOER, *53, chairman of the tcleDlmne cmnmltlec. 
JOHN HOLLAND, JR., '41, was toastmastcr. and BILL LEONARD, '49, made a report on our Club's participation in the Foundation campaign. LEON ST. PIERRE, '55, presented the Man of the Year a\yard to Mr. Cerrlto. It was a most success­ful affair thanks to the wonderful participation by many of our members. 
We planned election of officers during the third week in May, and wc are planning on either a dance ^ or a summer picnic to wind up the Club activities of this administration. Incidentally wc asked each alumnus attending Universal Notre Dame night to list In order of his preference what he thought the objectives of the Notre Dame Club should be. 
—JOHN F. HURLEY, Pres. 

South Central Wisconsin 
Madison area alumni celebrated Universal Xotrc Dame Night with a reception and dinner at the Embers Supper Club April 24. Club President JOHN 
W. ROACH welcomed JOHN J. BRODERICK, JR.» assistant dean of the Notre Dame Law School, as guest speaker, BISHOP WILLIAM P. O'CON­NOR was invited as a special guest. FRANK 
D. HAMILTON of Dodgeville, past president, was toastmastcr. Treasurer MAURICE LEAHY and Secretary TOM HINKES shared the arrangements duties. 
Spokane 
Universal N.D. Night was observed on Saturday, April 20th, witli a gala banquet !n the Davenport Hotel. For the Hrst time in many years the guest speaker was from Notre Dame, Alumni Field Sccrctar>- THOMx\S KERNAN. His talk was ver>­interesting and the question and answer period most enlightening. 
The tables were set with gold and blue cloths, with Morris Inn place mats adding a campus touch to the affair, as did the Notre Dame cock­tail napkins used in the social hour preceding the dinner. Retiring President, GARY A. MYERS, *59, presided as M.C. and introduced the alumnae of St. Mar>-'s College and the alunmi of Portland University who were present. 
The following ofEcers were elected during the evening: President, DR. JIM ROTCHFORD, '49; Vice Pres., DICK ST. JOHN, '56; and Sccrctarv-Trcasurer, JOE WALSH, '14. 
Club members attending with tht-ir wives and friends were: ED BETHKE, '28; FRANK HAGEN­BARTH, '27; FRANK HERRON, '35; DR. CUR­RAN HIGGINS, '49; ELMER JOHNSTON, '23; TO.M LxXLLY, '06; DR. BOB MAHER. *35; GARY MYERS, '59; JOHN P. O'NEILL, '29; DR. JIM ROTCHFORD, *49; BOB ROTCHFORD, '49; RALPH SCHULLER, '57; BERNIE SMYTH, '55; BILL WOLTER, '35; RAY PENLAND, '56; and JOE WALSH, '14. 
Members enjoyed their annual HoHdav Party on December 27th at the home of DR. JI.M ROTCH­FORD, '49, vice-president of the Club. A most at­tractive and appetizing Hawaiian style snack table, arranged by Jim's gracious wife Marv% added greatly to the pleasure of the evening. The following mem­bers of the Club and their wives attended this Informal affair: JIM CONNELLY, '48; JIM LYNCH, '40; JOHN O'NEILL, '29, and daughter, Nanc>-; R.W PENL.\ND, '56; BILL WOLTER, '35; and JOE WALSH, '14. The following stu­dents at the University were guests of the Club: Steve DuBoIs; Charles and Tom Tilford; and Pete Wanderer. 
Some of the Club members and their wives at­tended the Portland University Alumni annual din­ner on February' 14th, preceding the basketball game between Portland and Gonzaga. DR. JIM ROTCHFORD, '49, spoke for the Club and was assured that Portland would reciprocate the courtesy at our Universal N.D. Night celebration. While the dinner was the source of much enjoyment, the game was not, as Portland lost to Gonzaga, 59-53. 
—JOE WALSH, '14, Sccy-Treas. 

Terre Haute 
FR. JAMES BLANTZ, C.S.C., chaplain of Gibault School, was speaker for UND Communion Sun­day in December. President JAMES E. SULLI­VAN was general chairman for the breakfast. 
The first annual Valentine Dance was held in the Wabash Room of the Terre Haute House. Chairman was BERNIE BURDICK. Members and 
guests had a real good evening. 
Officers for the coming year arc: BERNIE BUR­DICK, president; JAMES P. BOYER, vice-presi­dent; ROBERT KINTZ, secretar>-; CHARLES W. METZGER, treasurer; and REV. JAMES BL.\NTZ, diaplaln. Tlicy were inducted on UNT) Night at the Terre Haute House on April 25. FR. ED­MUND J. ^fURRAY, C.S.C.. of the history de­partment, a former Army chaplain, was the guest speaker on Notre Dame's patriotic tradition. RICHARD W. KELLY, '44, popular Challenge Campaign clialrman, received the "Notre Dame Man of the Year" award from 1962 recipient MYRON BUSBY. FRED G. CHRISTMAN, MYRON BUSBY and JAMES BOYER handled arrangements. Retiring President JAMES SULLIVAN was master of ceremonies. 
—JIM BOYER, VIcc-Pres. 

MUSKEGON—Universal Notre Dame Night head table personalities included (from left) National Secretary Jim Armstrong; Club President, Jim Morse; Vice-President and Mrs. Stanley Tyler, Jr.; and Mrs. Jim Morse. 
Tri-Cities 
On .Marcli 11, 1963, GEORGE N. SHUSTER, assistant to the president of ND, spoke to the .After Dinner Club of the Trl-CItles. 
Taking an evening off from the Lenten season, a large crowd was on hand for the annual St. Pat's party held at Short Hills Countr>- Club. As usual the wives outdid themselves in setting up this fine dinner-dance. 
REV. JA.MES MORAN, C.S.C., director of ad­missions and scholarships, was in the Tri-CIties visiting the counselors of all the prt\*ate and public schools in the area. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was xVpril 26 with FR. JOHN aW/VNAUGH, C.S.C., the main speaker. 
—JOHN S. HERR, Secy. 

Triple Cities 
The University of Notre Dame iVIumni Club of the Triple Cities held its annual Communion Break­fast to honor the Notre Dame students who were home for the holidays on Sunday, December 30th. 
Mass was celebrated at 7:15 a.m. by Rev. John 

J. Toomey, Pastor, at Blessed Sacrament Church, Johnson City, New York. Thirty-five students and alumni then attended breakfast at Lou's Restaurant In Johnson City. 
The Reverend Brian Reddlngton, O.F.M., of the Catholic Information Center gave an interesting and informative talk on the Ecumenical Council. 
Current officers were re-elected for another year. They include: President, JOSEPH P. GALLOWAV. '51; Vice-President, THOMAS BENEDICT, '49; Secretary, JOHN J. O'ROURKE, '49; and Treas­urer, JAMES P. CONNERTON, '49. 
—JOHN J. O'ROURKE, '49, Secy. 

"In the Year End 1962 Issue on page 42 tmder Class of Iij5I, the first article, wtilch was sub­mitted by my employer, refers to an award I re­ceived for an outstanding technical paper. The last sentence of tbis article states, 'For the past few years Joe has been a one-man team as president of the Triple Cities N.D. Club.* 
**Thu statement is not completely true, however, for I have been more than ably associated with and assisted by: TOM BENEDICT, '49, vice-presi­dent; JACK O'ROURKE, '49, secretary; and JIM CONNERTON, '49, treasurer. I would appreciate vour printing this correction in the next issue." 
—JOSEPH P. GALLOWAY, '51, Pres. 

Toledo ST. LOUIS —U.N.D. Night, held April 23 in LcChateau, featured (L-r.): Gco^e Camrf, DR. WILLIAM M. BURKE, dean of freshmen '43, last year's Man-of-the«Year-Award recipient; Herman L. Kriegshauscr, prcsidoit­
at the University, was the guest of President JOE 
elcct of the St. Louis Club; Rev. Charles McCarragher, G^.G., Univeisity vice-
KALBAS and Toledo alumni for a UND Night celebration in May. 
president for student affairs; and Thomas J. White, '37, NJ>. Man of the Year for 1963. 
NotTe Dame Alumnus, Juiu-July, 1963 25 
1'ucson 
Tucson Club officers: TIMOTHY R, KING, 

president; DR. JAMES REILLY, \-ice-presidcnt; 
BUDDY GOLDMAN, secretar>-; and ROBERT 
O'CALLAGHAN, treasurer. Chaplain: FR. PAT­
RICK DUFFV, C.S.C., St. Mars's Hospital. 
. First meeting of the year was a dinner at the 
Pioneer Hotel on Fcbruar>- 26. 
At Rcgina Cleri Seminar^*, desert spot several 

miles east of Tucson, N.D. families gathered on St. 
Patrick's Day for Mass (sermon by Father Duffy) 
and breakfast. Grads dating back to the Class of 
'13 (JIM O'BRIEN), their families and friends 
of the University, heard Father Maloney, director 
of the Seminary, give an inspiring talk. 
Coach JOHN JORDAN was a guest of the Club 
for UND Night on April 24. 
—BUDDY GOLDMAN, Secy. 

Tulsa 
Library Director VICTOR SCHAEFER took over for an ailing FR. PHILIP MOORE as campus guest at Tulsa UND Night dinner on .April 23 at the Cup Club. 
Twin Cities 
FATHER HESBURGH addressed about 280 alum­ni and guests at tiie Minncapolis-St. Paul UND Night at the Town and Country Club in St. Paul on April 29. Other guests included Minnesota Gov­ernor Karl Rolvaag and the presidents of several Minnesota colleges. 
Utah 
The Noire Dame Alumni Club of Utali met for 
diaaer at the Desarct Inn, Salt Lake City, on April 
18, 1963. THOMAS J. KERNAN, recently ap­
pointed field secretary of tlie Notre Dame Alumni 
Association was the guest speaker in celebrating 
Universal Notre Dame Night with the Utah Club. 
—LEONARD J. DI GIACOMO, Seo.-Trcas. 

Virginia 
Vice-President CHARLES LA FRATTA wrote that the Virginia Club ^vould celebrate UND Night in Richmond and had selected a Notre Dame Man of the Year. Details next issue. 
Washington, D.C. 
In March the Washington, D.C , alumni re­elected its incumbent oflicers: WILLIAM B. MID­DENDORF, president; ALBERT A. VIROSTEK, JR., vice-president; RICHARD I. SCHOEN­FELDER, secrelar>-; and JOSEPH P. MALONEY, treasurer. MARRY W. PLANNER and THOMAS 
S. MARKEY were named to the board of governors. The occasion was a St. Patrick's Day party in Schoenfeldcr's "Back Room" in Bcthesda, ^ld. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was observed on Monday, April 22, at the New Inleruational Inn. The speakers included campus guest FR. THOMAS O'DONNELL, C.S.C., assistant to the president of Notre Dame, describing plans for the N.D. prelude to the Getti-sburg Centennial June 29; MAJ. GEN. ULYSSES S. GRANT, III, USA Ret., former chair­man of the National Civil War Centennial Commis-
FORT LAUDERDALE —Nearly 300 Irish 
and guests tripped the light fantastic 
March 16 to the music of the Ralph 
Flanagan band at the Third Annual St. 
Pat's Day Dinner-Dance, arranged by 
(l.-r.) Vice-President Frank Carey, 
'46; Chairman Dick Gorman, '37; and 
President Don Dorini, '53. 
sion; and EDWARD (MONK) MALLOY, graduat­ing senior participating in the University's "Student Peace Corps" efforts in Latin America. Entertainment was provided by a singing group from Dunbarton College of Holy Cross. General Chair­man JOHN V. HINKEL was also named Washing­ton's Notre Dame Man of the Year. 
Western Washington 
Our chaplain MSGR. PHILIP H. DUFFY, super­inlcndcnt of parochial schools, was given a March luncheon in honor of his recent elevation to Mon­signor. Those attending were: FRED HOOVER, '43 & *47; AL TOTH, M9; TOM NUY. '55; MIL­LARD BATTLES, '55 & '56j BUD DA\TSCOURT, '34; OLLIE FLOR, '60; RON FRANCIS, '56; BERT HALL, '46; BOB MORTE-NSEN, *52, and VINCE STRECKER, '48. 
JOHN FALLON, '54, was chairman of our De­cember 9th Annual Communion Breakfast at Our Lady's Chapel, St. James Cathedral. Alumni, fam­ilies, and guests were invited to hear REV. JOHN DOHERTY, assistant superintendent of schools. OLLIE FLOR, '60, and BILL HERBER, '58, were responsible for a successful Scholarship Fund Draw­ing and Smoker. The winning ticket was held by NORMAN H. McNEIL, '55. 
We were pleased to welcome FR. THEODORE HESBURGH as guest of honor at our Universal Notre Dame Night April 24 at the Windjammer Restaurant. He u'as still able to see some evidence 
of the World's Fair such as the Science Museimi 
and Space Needle. TOM MAY was chairman of the 
event, as well as of a luncheon for Father Hesburgh 
at the Seattle Olympic Hotel. 
Future events include a dance at Pier 91 on June 

8, a picnic in July or August, and a football trip to 
the Stanford game next Oct. 26. 
—MILLARD T. BATTLES, JR., Secy. 

Wichita 
On September 29, 1962, the Notre Dame Alumni 

Club of Wichita sponsor«i a chartered bus trip to 
the Notre Datne-Oklahoma football game at Nor­
man, Oklahoma. 
In Wichita, Kansas, University of Notre Dame 

alumni were joined by many "fighting Irish" fans 
and subway alumnt in celebrating Universal Notre 
Dame Night In the beautiful Prairie Club atop the 
KFH Building on Wednesday, April 24, 1963. So­
cial hour started at 6:30 p.m. Dinner of five-ounce 
fillet, onion rings, baked potato, and tossed salad 
with choice of dressing v^-as served at 7:30 p.m. 
JOHN F. LAUGHLIN, managing editor of the 
Notre Dame ALUifNUS magazine, came here from 
South Bend, Indiana, to speak. Officials of the 
University of Notre Dame Alumni Club of Wichita 
planning the meeting included NESTOR \VEI­

GAND, JR., realtor, social chairman; GEORGE A. 
SCHWARZ, certified public accountant, president; 
J. L. WEIGAND, JR., attorney, past president; and WILLIAM T. DAVITT, attorney, secretary-treasurer. 
—WILLIAM T. DAVnr, Secy. 

Yoimgstown 
We set aside the 16th of April for Universal Notre 

Dame Night. FBI Agent OLIVER H. HUNTER, 
national president of the Alumni Assn. from New 
Castle, gave our Notre Dame Spirit a good boost as 
guest speaker. We had an excellent evening. 
Our events this season got off to a good start 

with a Husband and Wife Dinner in November. 
GABE MORAN was the Chairman. Forty-five pct>­
ple had a very sociable evening at the Colonial 
House in Youngstown. 
Our Communion Breakfast on December 9 was handled by DON GRANITO- The Oblate Sisters of the Sacred Heart gave us a good and plentiful meal. 
On December 8 we attempted to do something different. MIKE LYDEN, our vice-president, gath­ered all of the area football coaches and some of their best talent in order to get acquainted with Notre Dame and its possibilities. HUGH DEVORE tried to get here to interview these people, but got snowbound in Cleveland. We managed to spread some enthusiasm around in spile of the bad weath­er. This is going to be an annual event. Wc want to show that Notre Dame is not out of the run­ning as far as football Is concerned, and that we are interested in good talent. 
That seems to be the shape of things for now. Winter dampened our spirits a little, but not enough to miss the fact that wc were quite happy with our basketball fortunes. 
Tlie Youngstown secrctar>- was recently married to Miss Joy Ellen Scarnecchia, a lovely product of Stevens. The fatal date was May 4. 
—CHARLES B. CUSHWA, III, '56 & '61, Secy. 

TUCSON—^Members, their families and friends gathered at Rcgina Cleri Seminary for a Mass and Communion breakfast on S t Patrick's Day. Pictured at left, head table principals included: (l.-r.) Paul Schrichte, chairman; Dr. Jim Rcilly, vice-president; Tim King, Tucson Club president; Fr. Pat Duffy, C.S.C., chaplain; and Fr. Maloney, director of the seminary. 
^6" Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 
ciation in 1950 and honorary president in 1951. Noted for his work in many Catholic dubs and societies, he was invested in the Order of the Holy Sepulchre by Pope Pius XII in 1953. Sur­viv*ors include his wife Gertrude, two sons, two brothers and four sisters. 
Classes CHARLES J. HALL.MAN, '25, died according 
to word received in the Alumni Office. No date of death is available. 
ENGAGEMENTS 

MUs Andrea J. Schlick and JAMES A. GAR­RITY, '59. Miss Mary Foley and DAVID ROLAND GUN­DUNG, '60. Miss Carol Ann Kingslcy and MICHAEL VIN­CENT METALLO, '61. Miss Madeline Agnes Devore and THOMAS JOHN \VEBER, '62. Miss Carol Sue Thomas and THEODORE A. ROMANOWSKI, '62. 
MARRIAGES 

Miss Nancy Ream and ROBERT P. McGRATH, '55, New- York City, February 2, 1963. 
Miss Carolyn Virginia Deyo and ROBERT J. DIERSING, '60, Youngstown, Ohio, December 22, 1962. 
MUs Joan Marie Meyer and M. JAMES WAL­LACE, '61, Richmond, Virginia, November 10, 1962. 
Miss Mary Barbara Schneider and JAMES STE­PHEN DANEHY, '63 (Feb.), South Bend, Indiana, February- 16, 1963. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and -Mrs. DO.MINIC F. BOETTO, '43, a daughter, Monique Marie, February 6, 1963. Dr. and Mrs. EDWARD M. SCOTT, '46, a daughter, Molly Kathryn, February 25, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE A. CONWAY, '47, a son, Thomas, January 10, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. JEROME HENDEL, '47, a daugh­ter, Barbara Jean, March 24, 1963. Mr. and -Mrs. WALTER J. YOUNGER, '49, a son, John Kenneth, January- 25, 1963. -Mr. and Mrs. DON SCHULTHEIS, '30, a son, January 8. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM G. KLEE, '31, a son, John David, July 23. 1962. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT J. DIG.AN, '32, a daugh­ter, Judith Marie, December 13, 1962. -Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD HIDDING, '52, a r daughter, Andrea Marie, March 26, 1963. Mr. and .Mrs. ROBERT KIENSTRA, '32, a son, Bernard Patrick, March 15, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. DAVID W. MORIARTY, JR., '32, a son, David Walter III, January 20, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. GE,\RY BECKER, '53, a daugh­ter, Noreen Marie, February 25, 1963. -Mr. and Mrs. JAMES JONES, '53, a daughter, January 6, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. BENEDICT L. SUPLICK, '33, a f son, Benedict Leon, Jr., January- 27, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES W. CAHILL, '53, a son, Keiin -Michael, March 23, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES GULDE, '33, a son, James Ernst, March 30, 1963. Capt. and Mrs. JAMES E. BALDINGER, '56, a daughter, February 27, 1963. .Mr. and -Mrs. JA.MES E. MACK, '56, a daugh­ter, Mardi 3, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. DAVID N. PFAFF, '36, a daugh­ter, Susan Elizabeth, December 12, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN BARANY, '57, a son, 
January 6, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. RONALD W. HEINZ, '37, a son. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM CHESSON, '38, a 
daughter, Lisa Patrice, February 28, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. DAVID McSHANE, '58. a daugh­ter, Mary Elizabeth, February 17, 1963. -Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM SCHAFER, '58, a son, Lawrence Charles, August 13, 1962. 
Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL R. O'CONNOR, JR., '59, a daughter, Mar>- Meghan, September 18, 1S62. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH ALBRIGHT, '60, a son, 
Joseph Paul, Jr., February 15, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD C. BENKENDORF, '60, a son. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD SQUIER, '60, a daugh­ter, Maribeth, February 19, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. DEE C. STEVENSON, '60, a daughter, Marya Sue, Febniary 23, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL S. DORWEILER, '61, a son, Paul Gleason, February 12, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH M. O'HARA, '61, a son, Thomas Joseph, December 22, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD MICHAEL O'TOOLE, '61, a daughter, Mary Brigid, April 6. 1963. 
Mr. and Mrs. RONALD COMO, '62, a son, Ronald -Michael Ray, January 12, 1963. 
DEATHS 
FREDERICK W. LONGAX, here '97, died 

February 5, 19G3. He ^vas a leading figure for 
more than half a century in civic progress in 
Lincoln, 111. He was president of the American 
National Bank of Lincoln for 15 years. In 1932, 
he became vice-president and secretary of the 
Lincoln Sand and Gravel Co. and later became 
president, retiring from the business world in 
1962. His wife Helene, daughter, son, three grand­
children and a great-grandchild survive. 
AVILLUM E. BALDWIN, LL.B. '01, of Berwyn, 

Illinois, died September 13, 1962. The informa­
tion was received from his son, also of Ber\**>Ti. 
DR. WILLIAM H. HALLORAN, '03, Audubon, 

Jovr^t died of cancer May 4, 1960. 
P. W. O'GRADY, '03, died in Chicago, June 29, 1962. The Alumni Office received no details. 
ARTHUR J. DEVEREUX, '05, died May 19, 

1962, according to word received in the Alumni 
Office. No details. 
JAMES B. DUGG/\N, '05, a retired traffic man­

ager for a coal company in Chicago, died January 
26, 1963. Two daughters and a grandson survive. 
REV. WALTER J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C.. '06, 

died in the Community Infirm3r>', Notre Dame, 
on March 18, 1963. Father received his doctorate 
in classical languages and went on to teach at 
the University of Portland, Holy Cross College 
(Washington, D.C.), Foreign Missionary Seminary 
(Washington, D.C.), St. Edward's U. (.Austin, 
Tex.), and N^azareth College (Kalamazoo). A stroke 
forced his retirement in 1954. 
KENNETH B. FOX, here '12, died March 29, 

1963. He was active in several drama groups in 
the White Plains area and salesman for Craftman 
Photo Co., S.Y.C. He leaves hts wife, t%vo sons, a 
daui:hter, sister and seven grandchildren. 
WILLIAM B. HAYDEN, '12, died at Mercy 

Hospital, Dubuque, Iowa, on January 11, 1963. His 
wife Leona sur\*ivcs him. 
FRANCIS G. MOONEV, '14, died in 1962 ac­

cording to word received in the Alumni Office. No 
details. 
CLIFFORD A. MERRIMAN, '17, a prominent 

Chlcagoan associated with the Cyclone Fence Co., 
Waukcgan, died in March, 1963. Sur\'ivors include 
a son and daughter, two brothers and t%vo sisters. 
ALFONZO ANAYA, '20, died In 1962 according 

to word received in the Alumni Office. No details. 
PAUL M. V/VN ACKER.MAN% '21, died June 

8, 1962, from diabetes and compb'cations according 
to \vord received from his widow Mar>* in O^va­
toona, Minn. 
WILLIAM J. FIT2GER.\LD, '21, a monogram 

holder, died October 27, 1962. Information was 
furnished by his son^in-Iaw. 
WILLIAM F. LA^^'LESS, '21, died Januar>- 15, 

1963. A third generation employee of DuPont, 
he was work engineer at the time of his death. 
JIc is survived by his \*'i/c Emily, one son, three 
daughters, three brothers, two sisters and 11 grand­
children. (See Class notes.) 
ROM.\NUS F. N.VDOLNEY, "22, died in St. Joseph's Hospital, Houston, Texas, on February 21, 1963. He played tackle three years for the Fight­ing Irish and later with the Green Bay Packers. Mr. Nadolncy had been living in Houston for the past 28 years and was a developer of the Clovcrlcaf Farms Co. Survivors include his vvlfe, a son and daughter, five grandchildren, a brother and three sisters. 
EDMUND C. TSCHUDI, '23, of Dubuque, lovva, died February 27, 1963, according to word received from his wife Madelon. 
REV. SYLVESTER F^VNG.XfANN, O.S.B., '24, of St. Michael's Church in Florence, Alaska, died several years ago according to word received in the Alumni Office. No details. 
PAUL J. FREY, '24, died suddenly February- 5, 1963. He was living In Long Beach, California. His wife Mary and four daughters survive, 
ROBERT CONROY SCOGGINS, LL.B. '24, a prominent Houston attorney who was with the legal department of Humble Oil & Refining Co. for 25 years, died January 29, 1963. For the past several years, he had been a well-knou'n lecturer for his talks on higher Catholic education. He served as national president of our Alumni Asso­
BROTHER ERNEST RYAN. '25, died March 4, 1963, in the Holy Cross House at the University. Brother Ernest founded the Dujarie Press in the early 40's as an outlet for books for Juveniles. He had written more than 50 books since 1945, one of them, Captain Johnny Ford, still very much in demand. Previously to 1945, Brother pursued his interest in Catholic youth with a teaching career that took him to Evansville, Indianapolis, New Orleans, and the University of Portland. He was a member of the International Mark Twain So­ciety and the Eugene Field Society. Surviving are three sisters and a brother in Elyria, and another brother in California. 
ARTHUR J. KLISE, '26. president of the Kem­row Co., Wooster, Ohio, died Febniary 5, 1963. He and his wife were beginning a long vacation when he became ill aboard the ship Bergensjord and had to be operated on. Unfortunately, perito­nitis set in taking his life. 
GEORGE P. MURRIN, '26, Houston attorney, died in Afarch, 1963. A guard on the Irish teams of '24, '25 and '26, he was .Mi-American each year. From 1939-59, he was a law partner with Wright Murrow, former U.S. congressman. He is survived by his wife, stepson and two sisters. 
JOHN P. BERSCHEID, '29, died February 4, 1963, according to word received from his widow in Fairfield, Alabama. 
JOHN JOSEPH DONAHUE. '29, died suddenly of a heart attack in January, 1963. A resident of Afilwaukee, he worked for Tlie Bureau of Reclama­tion, U.S. Govt. His widow Elizabeth survives. 
REV. GEORGE J. WELSH, CS.a , '29, former pastor of Holy Cross Church in South Bend, died February 7, 1963. Father Welsh had been on the faciJtics of Notre Dame, the University of Port­land and St. Edward's University. Besides Holy Cross parish, he had ser\'ed at a parish In Pough­keepsie, N.Y., and recently at St. Bernard's Catho­lic Chutch in Walertown, ^Vis. Father observed the silver jubilee of his ordination on June 22, 1958. He is survived by three sisters. 
JUDGE WALTER R. O'MALLEY, '30, afflicted with a heart ailment for several years, died March 18, 1963. He served part time as an acting judge of Circuit, Superior and County Courts for more than 25 years. Surviving are his widow Theresa, a daugh­ter, brother and sister. 
lUYMOND J. RE.ARDON, '30, LL.B. '33, died September 9, 1962, in Waukegan, lUinob, according to word received from his widow. 
EDW.\RD L. FR.ANCK, '31, of Joliet, III., died in Februar>*, 1963, according to word received in the .Mumni Office. No details. 
^VALTER A. MORTENSEN, JR., '32, died .August 29, 1962, according to word received from his widow in Chicago, III. 
HOWARD C. FISCHER, '33, of Elmhurst, lU., was killed in an auto accident In January, 1963. His widow survives. 
JOSEPH R. BURTON, '34, of South Clinton, Iowa, died December 20, 1962, according to word received from his widow. 
KARL M. SYRING, '34, of Toledo, Ohio, died January 18, 1963. No details. 
Dr. VINCENT A. GORMAN, '35, of Trumbull, Conn., died December 17, 1962, of a coronary in his sleep. He was active in his community's affairs, hospital affairs and Connecticut state medical politics. His ivife Alberta and daughter Rosemary survive. 
WILLLVM M. O'CONNOR, '36, of St. Louis, Mo., died December 19, 1962. No details. 
ARCHIBALD G. GRAH.A.M, '37, died unex­pectedly March 7, 1963. Surviving are his mother and two sisters. 
JOHN I. FREEDY, '38, died April 25. 1961, ac­cording to word received in the .Alumni Office from his widow. 
JOSEPH J. LORDI, '39, former captain of the NJ) . baseball team, and Metropolitan and National squash champion, died suddenly February 4, 1963. Remaining dedicated to amateur athletics his en­tire life, he served as president of the New York Athletic Club from 1959-61. Prior to that, he was the Club's vice-president and for many years was a member of the board of governors. There was no information forwarded to the Alumni 0£Sce con­cerning survivors. 
PETER T. ALONZI, '40. LL.B. '42, of Morton Grove, 111., died January 30, 1963. He was prcsi> (Turn to page 46) 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July. 1963 27 
An educator-turned-administrator examines and explains 
the importance 
the implications 
the imperatives 
the impact of 

ACADEMIC FREEDOM 
by Reverend John E. Walsh, CS.C. Director, Notre Dame Foundation 
THI S COMMENT has a twofold purpose: 
1. To suggest an analysis of the basis of academic freedom that differs somewhat from that advanced by the editors of "\\Tiat Right Has This Man?" I am in agreement with the points made by the editors regarding: 
•
 the importance of academic freedom to society; 

•
 the meaning and the implications of academic free­dom; 

•
 the value of bringing this discussion to the atten­tion of university alumni and the general public at a time when academic freedom is not, at least in our own country, in immediate danger. 


2. In the light of the understanding of academic free­dom which I propose, to e.xplore some special problems relating to academic freedom at a Catholic university, such as the University of Notre Dame. 
The editors of the brochure "What Right Has This Man?" find the claim for academic freedom, for the most part, in a consideration of the life of ideas in society and the impact of ideas on society. The college or university is presumably especially designed by society as a preserve for the discovering and disseminating of ideas. An atmos­phere of effective academic freedom, it is maintained, is necessary to make it possible for the college and imiver­sity professor to explore, evaluate, and disseminate all ideas, honestly arrived at, without fear of reprisal. Aca­demic freedom is not really a question until such time as the professor advances ideas that, for whatever reason, are thought bj' society to be harmful or even dangerous. How­ever, history shows that many good ideas were held in suspicion and were originally rejected by important groups in society. Those who advanced these ideas were often scorned and even persecuted. 
Thus runs the argument! It is a sound argument and a valid one. 
Ideas are, of course, crucially important in any society. Both old and new ideas must be constantly examined, evaluated, and tested. Ideas are the life's blood of any society, and progress in society often results from the deeper and wider insights brought about by the clash and conflict of ideas. However, it is not accurate to say that the college and university world has an exclusive fran­
28 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 
chise on the discovery, evaluation, or the dissemination of ideas. Every vital society discovers new ideas and checks old ones in many ways, and it teaches or dissem­inates them in many other ways as well. Much impor­tant research, for example, is done outside the halls of academe, and many important books are written by non-university people. 
If one discusses academic freedom from the viewpoint of the life of ideas, the question logically arises: why do not all those who deal in ideas have the same or similar freedom? But if they do, in fact, possess academic free­dom, then academic freedom has no special meaning. Rather it is simply a condition common to all men in a free society. 
But academic freedom should be considered a special kind of freedom. It has a specific and an important mean­ing. It is called academic because it pertains precisely to the forum of the classroom and to what takes place in that forum. In its most important sense, academic free­dom is the freedom to teach. For that reason, an equally valid and perhaps more convincing vantage point from which to discuss the special nature of academic freedom is a consideration of the nature of teaching in higher education. It should be pointed out that this discussion is limited to higher education, although academic freedom in some form obtains at other levels of formal education as well. 
Research and service are widely accepted university functions, but they are not properly or exclusively such. Research takes place in business and in industry and in government as well as in the university. Teaching, on the other hand, is specifically a college and university function. Formal, organized, and systematic instruction or teaching at tJie level of higher education is what dis­tinguishes the college or university from every other type of institution in society. 
Academic privilege and intellectual honesty 
U/HAT IS THERE about University teaching that both re­•• quires academic freedom and gives it its special mean­ing? First of all, teaching is a privilege or an acquired right. One can be a teacher or rightfully call himself a teacher only when he has won the privilege of teaching as the result of having himself become a "knower," i.e., a learned and a learning man. The teacher, or more spe­cifically the university professor, is a special kind of per­son in society. If he has qualified for the right or privilege to call himself a professor, he has delved deeply into his subject matter and has mastered it; he has studied its most profotmd and far-reaching implications; he has considered its relationships with other forms and kinds of knowledge and has arrived at his own positions regard­ing the fundamental principles and generalizations. 
Teaching, especially at the college and university level, involves the total impact on a human person, namely the teacher, who has lived deeply and studied deeply, not only on the mind but on the total person of his student as well. The good teacher shares both what he is and what he thinks wt h his students. As a matter of fact, the primary obligation of the teacher is intellectual honesty; his duty both to himself and to his students implies that he be honest \vith himself and with them. He cannot think one thing and teach another. He cannot suppress ideas or relevant facts. He cannot be disloyal or dishonest to his own convictions in order to teach what some outside person \vishes him to teach. University teaching requires 
(continued on page 45) 
HE HOLDS a position of power equaled by few occu­pations in our society. ^ : ~ 
WHAT RIGHT HAS THIS MAN... 
, His influence upon the rest of ua—^and upon our 
children—^is enormous. 

His place in society is so critical that no totali­tarian state would (or does) trust him fully. Yet in our country his fellow citizens grant him a greater degree of freedom than they grant even to them­selves. 
He is a college teacher. It would be difficult to exaggerate the power that he holds. T 
•
 He originates a large part of our society's new ideas and knowledge. 

•
 He is the interpreter and disseminator of the knowledge we have inherited from the past. 

•
 He makes discoveries in science that,can both kill us and heal us. 

•
 He develops theories that can change our eco-, nomics, our politics, our social structures. 

•
 As the custodian, discoverer, challenger, tester, and interpreter of knowledge he then enters a class­room and teUs our young people what he knows—or what he thinks he knows—and thus influences the thinking of millions. 


What right has this man to such power and in­fluence? Who supervises him, to whom we entrust so much? 
Do we the people? Do we, the parents whose children he instructs, the regents or trustees whiose institutions he staffs, the taxpayers and philan­thropists by whose money he is sustained? 
On the contrary: We arm him with safeguards agajnsi our doing so. What can we be thinking of, to permit such a . system as this? ' _ ;;, 
Copyright 1963 by Eiitoriot PnjeeU far Eiatmtim 
For the teacher: special risks, special rights 
N
ORHAIXT, in our society, we are wary of per­sons whose positions give them an oppor­tunity to exert unusual power and influence. 
But we grant the college - teacher a degree of freedom far greater than most of the rest of us enjoy. 
Our reasoning comes from a basic fact about our 
civilization: Its vitality flows from, and is sustained by, ideas. Ideas in science, ideas in medicine, ideas in poli­
tics. Ideas that sometimes rub people the wrong way. Ideas that at times seem pointless. Ideas that may alarm, when first broached. Ideas that may be so novel- or revolutionary that some persons may propose that they be suppressed. Ideas—all sorts— _ that provide the sinews of our civiUzation. 
They will be disturbing. Of ten they will irritate. 
But the more freely they are produced—^and the more rigorously they are tested—^the more surely will our civilization stay alive. 
T
ais IS THE THEORY. Applying it, man has de­veloped institutions for the specific purpose of . incubating, nourishing, evaluating, and spread­ing ideas. They are our colleges and universities. As their function is vmique, so is the responsibiUty with which we charge the man or woman who staffs them. 
We give the college teacher the professional duty of pursuing knowledge—and of conveying it to oth­ers—with complete honesty and open-mindedness. We tell him to find errors in what we now know. We tell h»»n to plug the gaps in it. We tell him to add new material to it. : 
We tell him to do these things without fear of the consequences and without favor to any inter^t save the pursuit of truth. 
We know—^and he knows—that to meet .tins re­sponsibility may entail risk for the college teacher. The Imowledge that he develops and then teaches to others will frequently produce ground-shaking re­sults. 
it will lead at times to weapons that at the press of a button can erase human lives. Conversely, it will lead at other times to medical miracles that will soue human lives. It may unsettle theology, as 
did Darwinian biology in the late 1800's, and as did countless other discoveries in earUer centuries. .Con­. versely, it may confirm or strengthen the elements of one's faith. It will produce intensely personal results: the loss of a job to automation or, con­
versely, the creation of a job in a new industry. 
Dealing in ide^, the teacher may be subjected to 
strong, and.at times bitter, criticism. It may come 
frx>m unexpected quarters: even the man or woman 
who is well aware that firee research and education ~ 
are essential to the common good may become 
understandahly upsat when free research and edu­
cation affect his own livelihood, his own customs, 
his own beliefis. 

And, under stress, the critics may attempt to 
coerce the teacher. The twentieth century has its 
own versions of past centuries' persecutions: social 
ostradsm for the sdiolar, the withdrawal of finan­
cial support, tiie threat of political sanctions, an 
attempt to deprive the teacher of bis job. 
Wherever coercion has been widely appliedr-in 
Nazi Germany, in tiie Soviet Union—ilie develop­
ment of ideas-hai'been seriously-curtailed. Were 
^ 

such coercion to succeed here, the very sinews of our civilization would be weakened, leaving us without strength. 
W
E RECOGNIZE these facts. So we have de­veloped special safeguards for ideas, by developing special safeguards for him who fosters ideas: the college teacher. 
We have developed these safeguards in the calm (and civilized) realization that they are safeguards against our own impetuousness in times of stress. lliey are a declaration of our willingness to risk the consequences of the scholar's quest for truth. They are, in short, an expression of our belief that we should seek the truth because the truth, in tioie, J shall make us firee. 
What the teacher's special rights consist of 
T
HE SPECIAL FREEDOM that We grant to a college teacher goes beyond ansrthing guaran­teed by law or constitution. 
As a citizen like the rest of us, he has the right to speak critically or xmpopularly without fear of governmental reprisal or restraint. 
As a teacher enjoying a special freedom, however, he has the right to speak without restraint not only from government but from almost any other source, including his own employer. 
Thus—^although he draws his salary from a col­lege or university, holds his title in a college or university, and does his work at a college or uni­versity—he has an independence from his employer which in most other occupations would be denied to him. 
Here are some of the rights he enjoys: 
•
 He may, if his honest thinking dictates, expoimd views that clash with those held by the vast ma­jority of his fellow countrymen. He will not be restrained from doing so. 

•
 He may, if his honest thinking dictates, pub­licly challenge the findings of his closest colleagues, even if they outrank him. He will not be restrained from doing so. 

•
 He may, if his honest thinking dictates, make statements that oppose the views of the president of his college, or of a prominent trustee, or of a generous benefactor, of of the leaders of the state legislature. No matter how much pain he may bring to such persons, or to the college administrators entrusted with maintaining good relations with them, he will not be restrained from doing so. 


Suchfireedom is not written into law. It exists on the college campus because (1) the teacher claims 
and enforces it and (2) the public, although ^ndng on occasion, grants the validity of the teacher's claim. 
W
E GRANT the teacher this special freedom for oiur own benefit. Although "orthodox" critics of educa­tion frequently protest, 'there is a strong experi­mental emphasis in college teaching in this country. This emphasis owes its existence to several in­fluences, including the utilitarian nature of our society; it is one of the ways in which our institu­
tions of higher education differ from many in Europe. 
Hence we often measure the effectiveness of our colleges and universities by a pragmatic yardstick: Does our society derive a practical benefit from their practices? 
The teacher's special freedom meets this test. The unfettered mind, searching for truth in science, in philosophy, in social sciences, in engineering, in professional areas—and then teaching the findings to millions—^has produced impressive practical re­sults, whether or not these were the original ob­jectives of its search: 
The technology that produced instruments of victory in World War II. The sciences that have produced, in a matter of decades, incredible gains in man's struggle against disease. The science and engineering that have taken us across the threshold of outer space. The dazzling progress in agricultural productivity. The damping, to an unprecedented degree, of wild fluctuations in the business cycle. The appearance and application of a new architec­ture. The development of a "scientific approach" in the management of business and of labor unions. The ever-increasing maturity and power of our historians, literary critics, and poets. The gradua­tion of hundreds of thousands of college-trained men and women with the wit and skill to learn and broaden and apply these things. 
Would similar results have been possible without campus freedom? In moments of national panic (as when the Russians appear to be outdistancing us in the space race), there are voices that suggest that less freedom and more centralized direction of our educational and research resources would be more "efficient." Disregard, for a moment, the fact that such contentions display an appalling ignorance and indifference about the fundamental philosophies 
. of freedom, and answer them on their own ground. 
Weighed carefully, the eyidence seems, generally to 
support the contrary view. Freedom does work— 
quite practically. 
Many point out that there are even more im­
portant reasons for supporting the teacher's special 
freedom than its practical benefits. Says one such 
person, the. conservative writer Russell Kirk: 
"I do not believe that academic freedom deserves 
preservation chiefly because it 'serves the commu­
nity,' although this incidental function is important. 
I think, irather, that the principal importance of 
academic freedom is. the opportunity it affords for 
the highest development of private reason and im­
agination, the improvement of mind and heart by 
the apprehension of IVuth, whether or not that de­
velopment is of any immediate use to 'democratic 
society'." 

The conclusion, however, is the same, whether the reasoning is conducted on practical, philosophical, or religious grounds—or on all three: The unusual freedom claimed by (and accorded to) the college teacher is strongly justified. 
"This freedom is immediately applicable only to a limited number of individuals," says the statement of principles of a professors' organization, "but it is profoundly important for the public at large. It safe­guards the methods by which we explore the" un­known and test the accepted. It may afford a key to open the way to remedies for bodily or social ills, or it may confirm our faith in the familiar. Its preser­vation is necessary if there is to be scholarship in any true sense of the word. The advantages accrue as much to the public as to the scholars themselves." 
Hence we give teachers an extension of freedom— academicfreedom—^that we give to no other group in our society: a special set of guarantee designed to encourage and insure their boldness, their forth­rightness, their objectivity, and (if necessary) their criticism of us who maintain them. 
The idea works most of the time, but... 
I IKE MANY good theories, this one works for 
 most of the time at most colleges and uni­
1 ^ versities. But it is subject to continual 
stresses. And it suffers occasional, and sometimes 
spectacular, breakdowns. 

If past experience can be taken as a guide, at this 
very moment: 

>• An alumnus is composing a letter threatening to 
strike his alma mater from his will unless the insti­
tution removes a professor whose views on some 
controversial issue—^in economics? in genetics? in 
politics?—the alumnus finds objectionable. 
•
 The president of a college or university, or one of his aides, is composing a letter to an alumnus in which he tries to explain why the institution cannot remove a professor whose views on some controver­sial issue the alumnus finds objectionable. 

•
 A group of liberal legislators, aroused by reports from the campus of their state university that a professor of economics is preaching fiscal conserva­tism, is debating whether it should knock some 


tense into the imiversity by cutting its appropria­tion for next year. 
•
 A group of conservative legislators is aroused by reports that another professor of economics is preaching fiscal liberalism. This group, too, is con­sidering an appropriation cut. 

•
 The president of a college, faced with a budget­ary crisis in his biology department, is pondering whether or not he should have a heart-to-heart chat with a teacher whose views on fallout, set forth in a letter to the local newspaper, appear to be scaring away the potential donor of at least one million dollars. 

•
 The chairman of an academic department, still smarting from the criticism that two colleagues lev­eled at the learned paper he delivered at the de­partmental seminar last week, is making up the new class schedules and wondering why the two up­starts wouldn't be just the right persons for those 7 a.m. classes which increased enrollments will ne­cessitate next year. *• The educational board of a religious denomina­tion is wondering why it should continue to permit the employment, at one of the colleges under its 


control, of a teacher of religion who is op^ y ques­tioning a doctrinal pronouncement made recently by the denomination's leadership. ' —_ 
• The managers of an industrial complex, wonied by university research that reportedly is Imking their product with a major health problem, are won­dering how much it might cost to sponsor univarsi^ research to show that their product is not the cause of a major health problem. ^ 
Pressures, inducements, threats: scores of exam­ples, most of them never publicized, could be cited each year by our colleges and universities. 
In addition there is philosophical opposition to the present concept of academic freedom by a few who sincerely believe it is wrong. ("In the last analysis," one such critic, William F. Buckley, Jr., once wrote, "academic freedom must mran tiie freedom of men and women to sapaviae the educa­tional activiti'es and aims of the sdhools tbey ovttsee and support.") And, considerably kss impcHrtant and more frequent, there is opposition by onotiaii-f alists and crackpots. 
Since criticism and coercion do exist, and since academic freedom has virtually no basis in law, how' can the college teacher enforce his claim to it? 
In the face of pressures, how the professor stays free 
I
N THE mid-1800's, many professors lost their jobs over their views on slavery and secessionr In the 1870's and '80's, many were dismissed for their views on evolution. Near the turn of the century, a number lost their jobs for speaking out on the issue of Free Silver. 
The trend alarmed many college teachers. Until late in the last century, most teachers on this side of the Atlantic had been mere purveyors of the knowledge that others had accumulated and written down. But, beginning around 1870, many began to perform a dual function: not only did they teach, but they themselves began to investigate the world about them. 
Assumption of the latter role, ~ previously per­
' formed almost exclusively in European universi­ties, brought a new vitality to our campuses. It also brought perils that were previously unknown. As long ias they had dealt only in ideas that were clas­sic£d, generally accepted, and therefore safe, teach­ers and the institutions of higher learning did little that might offend their governing boards, their alumni, the parents of their students, the pubUc, and the state. But when they began to act as in­vestigators in new areas of knowledge, they found, themselves affecting the status quo and the inter-­
- ests of those who enjoyed and supported it. And, as in the secession, evolution, and silver con­troversies, retaliation was sometimes swift. In 1915, spurred by their growing conc^n over such infringements of their freedom, a group of teachers formed the American Association of Uni­versity Professors. It now has 52,000 members, in the United States and Canada. For nearly half a ­centiiry ah AAUP committee, designated as "Com­
mittee A," has been academic freedom's most active —and most effective—defender. 
T
HE AAUP's defense of academic freedom is based on a set of principles that its members have developed and refined throughout llie or­ganization's history. Its current statement of these principles, composed in collaboration with the As­sociation of American Colleges, says in part: "Institutions of higher education are conducted 
for the common good and not to further the interest 
of either the individual teacher or the institution as 
a whole. The common good depends upon the free 
search for truth and its free exposition." 
The statement spells out both the teacher's rights 
and his duties: 
"The teacher^'is entitled to fiill freedom in re­
search and in the publication of the results, subject 
to the adequate performance of his other academic 
duties... 

"The teacher is entitled to freedom in the class­room in discussing his subject, but he should be carefiil not to introduce;. . . controversial matter which has no relation to his subject. . . 
"The college or university teacher is a citizen,-a member of a learned profession, and an officer of an educational institution. When he speaks or writes as a citizen, he should be free from institutiorial censor­ship or discipline, but his special'position in the community imposes special obligations. As a man of learning-and an educational officer, he should re­member that the public may judge his profession and his institution by his utterances. Hence he should at all times be acciurate, should exercise ap­propriate r^traint, should show respect for the opinions of others, and should make every effort to indicate that he is not an institutional spokesman." 
H
ow CAN such claims to academic freedom be enforced? How can a teacher be protected against retaliation if the truth, as he finds it and teaches it, is unpalatable to those who employ him? The Amoican Association of University Profes­sors and the Association of American Colleges have 
formulated this answer: permanent job security, or 
tmure. After a probationary period of not more than 
seven years, agree the AAUP and the AAC, the 
teacher's services should be terminated "only for 
adequate cause." 

If a teacher were dismissed or forced to resign 
simply because his teaching or research offended 
someone, the cause, in AAUP and AAC terms, 
clearly would not be adequate. _ 
- The teacher's recourse? He may appeal to the AAUP, which first tries to mediate the dispute with­out publicity. Failing such settlement, the AAUP conducts a full investigation, resulting in a full re­port to Committee^ A. If a violation of academic freedom and teniure is found to have occurred, the committee publishes its findings in the association's Bulletin, lak^ the case to the AAUP membership, and often asks that the offending college or univer­sity administration be censured. ­
So effective is an AAUP vote of censure tbat most college administrators will,go to great lengths to avoid it. Although the AAUP does not engage in boycotts, many of its members, as well as others in the academic profession, will not accept jobs in cen­sured institutions. Donors of funds, including many' philanthropic foundations, undoubtedly are influ­enced; so are inany parents, students, alumni, and present faculty members. Other organizations, siidK as the American Association of University Women, „ will not recognize a college on the AAUP's censure list. • ^ " -. / 
As the present academic year began, eleven insti­tutions were on the AAUP's list of censured admin­istrations. Charges of, infringements of academic freedom or tenure were being investigated on four­teen other campuses. In the past three years, seven institutions, having corrected-the situations which had led to AAUP action, haye been removed firom the censure category. 
Has the teacher's freedom no limitations? 
I |OW SWEEPING is the freedom that the college F ^ teacher claims? I I Does it, for example, entitle a member of the faculty of a church-supported college or university openly to question the existence of God? 
Does it, for example, entitle a professor of botany 
to use his classroom for the promulgation of political 
beliefe? 

Does it, for example, apply to a Communist? ~ There are those who would answer some, or all, 
such questions with an unqualified Y^. They would 
^w^^ 
argue that academic fireedom is absolute. They would say that any restriction, however it may be rationalized, effectively negates the entire academic-freedom concept. "You are eitherfiree or not firee," says one. "There are no halfway fireedoms." . 
There are others—the American Association of University Professors among them-^who say that ^ freedom can be limited in some instances and, by definition, is limited in others, without fatal damage being done. ^ ­
Restrictions at church-supported colleges and universities 7 
The AAUP-AAC statement of principle of aca­demic fireedom implicitiy allows religious restric­tions: ' —­
"Limitations of aoidemic fireedom because of re­ligious or other aims of the institution shmild be clearly stated in writing at the time of [the teadier's] appointment..." - ;_ . _ 
Here is how one church-related university (Prqt-.: 
estant) states such a "limitation" to its faculty 
members: 
"Since X University is a Christian institution supported by a religious denomination, a member of its faculty is expected to be in sympathy with the university's primary objective—^to educate its stu­dents within the framework of a Christian culture. The rights and privileges of the instructor should, therefore, be exercised with discretion and a sense of loyalty to the supporting institution,.. The right of dissent is a correlative of the right of assent. Any undue restriction upon an instructor in the exercise of this function would foster a suspicion of intoler­ance, degrade the university, and set the supporting denomination in a false light before the world." 
Another church-related institution (Roman Cath­olic) teUs its teachers: 
"While Y College is operated under Catholic aus­pices, there is no regulation which requires all mem­bers of the faculty to be members of the Catholic faith. A faculty member is expected to medntain a standard of life and conduct consistent with the phi­losophy and objectives of the college. Accordingly, tjie integrity of the college requires that all faculty members shall maintain a sympathetic attitude to­ward Catholic beliefs and practices, and shall make a sincere eifort to appreciate these beliefs and prac­tices. Members of the faculty who are Catholic are expected to set a good example by the regular prac­tice of Catholic duties." 
A teacher's "competence" 
By most definitions of academic freedom, a teach­er's rights in the classroom apply only to the field in which he is professionally an expert, as determined by the credentials he possesses. They do not extend to subjects that are foreign to his specialty. 
" He should be careful," says the American Association of University Professors and the Asso­ciation of American Colleges, "not to introduce into bis teaching controversial matter which has no re­lation to his subject." 
Hence a professor of botany enjoys an undoubted freedom to expound his botanical knowledge, how­ever controversial it might be. (He might discover, and teach, tbat some widely consumed cereal grain, knovm for its energy-giving properties, actually is of little value to man and animals, thus causing con­stranation and angry outcries in Battle Creek. No one on the campus is likely to challenge his right to do so.) He probably enjoys the right to comment, from a botanist's standpoint, upon a conservation bill priding in Congress. But the principles of aca­demicfreedom might not entitle the botanist to take a classroom stand bnj say, a bill dealing with traffic laws in his state. 
As a private citizen, of course, off the college cam­pus, he is as free as any other citizen to speak on whatever topic he chooses—^and as liable to criti­cism-of what he says. He has no special privileges when he acts outside his academic role. Indeed, the AAUP-AAC statement of principles suggests that he take special pains, when he speaks privately, not to be identified as a spokesman for his institution. 
H
ENCE, at least in the view of the most influen­tial of teachers' organizations, the freedom of the college teacher is less than absolute. But the limitations are established for strictly defined purposes: (1) to recognize the religious auspices of many colleges and univ^ities and (2) to lay down certain ground rules for scholarly procedure and con­duct. 
In recent decad^, a new question has arisen to haunt those who would define and protect academic freedom: the problem of the Communist. Whenit began to be apparent that the Communist was not simply a member of a poUdcal party, willing (like other political partisans) to submit to established democratic processes, the question of his eligibility to the rights of a free collie teacher was seriously posed. 
So pressing—^and so woirisome to our colleges and uiiiversities—has this question become that a separate section of tlus iqiort is devoted to it. 
The Communist: a special case? 
S
HOULD A Communist Party member enjoy the privileges of academicfireedom? Should he be permitted to hold a position on a college or university faculty? On few questions, however "obvious" the answer may be to some persons, can complete agreement be found in a free society. In a group as conditioned to controversy and as insistent upon hard proof as are college teachers, a consensus is even more rare. It would thuis be a miracle if there were agree­ment on the rights of a Communist Party member to enjoy academic privileges. Indeed, the miracle has not yet come to pass. The question is still wamily debated on many campuses, even where there is not a Communist in sight. The American Association of University Professors is still in the: process of defining its stand. The difficulty, for some, lies in determining whether or not a communist teacher actually propa­gates his beliefs among students. The question is asked. Should a communist gym instructor, whose utterances to his students are confined largely to the hup-two-three-four that he chants when he leads the calisthenics drill, be summarily dismissed? 
Should a chemist, who confines his campus activities 
solely to chemistry? Until he overtly preaches com­
mimism, or permits it to taint his research, his 
writings, or his teaching (some say), the Communist 
should enjoy the same rights as all other faculty 
members. 

Others—and they appear to be a growing num­
ber—have concluded that proof of Communist 
Party membership is in itself sufficient grounds for 
dismissal from a college faculty. 

To support the argument of this group, Professor 
Arthur O. Lovejoy, who in 1913 began the move­
- ment that led to the establishment of the AAUP, has quoted a statement that he wrote in 1920, long before communism on the campus became a lively issue: 
"Society^. . . is not getting from the scholar the particular service which is the principal raison (Tetre of his calling, unless it gets from him his honest report of what he finds, or believes, to be true, after careful study of the problems with which he deals. Insofar, then, as faculties are made up of ? men whose teachings express, not the results o^ their ^ own research and reflection and that of their fellow-specialists, but rather the opinions of other men—^ whether holders of public office or private persons from whom endowinents.are received—just so £ar are.colleges and imiversities perverted firom their proper function " , -, i.­
(His statement is the more pertinent. Professor Lovejoy notes, because it was originally the basis of "a criticism of an American college for accepting7~ from a 'capitalist' an endowment for a special pro­fessorship to be devoted to showing 'the fallacies of socialism and kindred theories and practices.' I have now added only the words 'holders of public office.'") .. ; 
Let us quote Professor Lovejoy at some length, as he looks at the communist teacher today: ^ <. 
"It is a very simple argument; it can best be put,^ in the logician's fashion, in a series of'numbered theorems: 
"1 . Freedom of inquiry, of opinion, and of teach­ing in universities is a prerequisite, if the academic , scholar is to perform the proper function of his profession. "^" •-. 
"2. The Communist Party m the United States is an organization whose aim is to bring about the ' establishment in this country of a political'as well ~. as an economic system essentially similar-to that"-; which now exists in the Soviet Union. 
"3. That system does not permitfineedom of in­quiry, of opinion, and of teaching, either in or^ outside of universities; in it the political govern­ment claims and exercises the right to dictate.to V scholars what conclusions they must accept, or at. least profess to accept, even: on questions l^ng within their own specialties—for example, in philos­ophy, in. history, in aesthetics and literary criticism, in economics, in biology. ~ . / 
"4. A member of the Communist Pa ^ is there­fore engaged in a movement which has already.a-^ tinguished academic freedom in many countries and would-rif it were successful here—^result,in the—, abolition of such freedom in American univeraitieB. r 
"5. No one, therefore, who desires to maintain academicfireedom in America can consistently favor that movement, or give indirect assistance to it by accepting as fit members of the faculties of vmi­versities, persons who have volimtarily adhered to an organization one of whose aims is to abolish academic fireedom. 
"Of these five propositions, the first is one of principle. For those who do not accept it, the con­clusion does not foUow. The argument is addressed only to those who do accept that premise. The second, third, and fourth propositions are state­ments of fact. I submit that they cannot be honestly gainsaid by any who are acquainted with the relevant facts 
"It will perhaps be objected that the exclusion of communist teachers would itself be a restriction upon fireedom of opinion and of teaching—viz., of the opinion and teaching that intellectual fii^eedom should be abolished in and outside of universities; and that it is self-contradictory to argue for the restriction offireedom in the name of fireedom. Tlie argument has a specious air of logicality, but it is in £act an absurdity. The believer in the indis­pensability of freedom, whether academic or politi­cal, is not thereby committed to the conclusion that it is his duty to facilitate its destruction, by placing its enemies in strategic positions of power, prestige, or influence . . . The conception of fireedom is not one which implies the legitimacy and inevitability of its own suicide. It is, on the contrary, a concep­tion which, so to say, defines the limit of its own applicability; what it implies is that there is one kind offireedom which is inadmissible—^the fireedom to destroy fireedom. The defender of Uberty of thought and speech is not morally boimd to enter the fight with both hands tied behind his back. And those who would deny such fireedom to others, if they could, have no moral or logical basis for the claim to enjoy thefireedom which they would deny... 
"In the professional code of the scholar, the man of science, the teacher, the first commandment is: Thou shalt not knowingly misrepresent tacts, nor tell lies to students or to the public. Those who not merely sometimes break this commandment, but repudiate any obligation to respect it, are obviously disqualified for membersUp in any body of investi­gators and teachers whidi maintains the elementary requirements of professional integrity. 
"To say^these things is not to say that the eco­nomic and even the political doctrines of commu­nism should not be presented and freely discussed within academic walls. To treat them simply as 'dangerous thought,' with which students should not be permitted to have any contact, would give rise to a plausible suspicion that they are taboo because they would, if presented, be all too con­vincing; and out of that suspicion young Commu­nists are bred. These doctrines, moreover, are his­torical facts; for better or worse, they play an immense part in the intellectual and political con­troversies of the present age. To deny to students means of learning accurately what they are, and of reaching informed judgments about them, would be to fail in one of the major pedagogic obligations of a imiversity^to enable students to understand the world in which they will live, and to take an intelligent part in its affairs ... " 
I
F EVERY COMMUNIST admitted he belonged to the party—or if the public, including college teachers , and administrators, somehow had access to party membership lists—such a policy might not be diflS­cult to £fpply. In practice, of course, such is not the case. A two-pronged danger may result: (1) we may not "spot" all Communists, and (2) unless we are very ceuBfiil, we may do serious injustice to persons who are not Communists at all. 
What, for example, constitutes proof of Commu­nist Party membership? Does refusal to take a loyedty oath? (Many won-Communists, as a matter of principle, have declined to subscribe to "dis­criminatory" oaths—oaths required of one group in society, e.g., teachers, but not of others.) Does invoking the Fifth Amendment? Of some 200 dis­missals &om college and university faculties in the past fifteen years, where communism was an issue, according to AAUP records, most were on grounds such as these. Only a handful of teachers were in-con trovertibly proved, either by their own admission or by other hard evidence, to be Communist Party members. 
Instead of relying on less-than-conclusive evi­dence of party membership, say some observers, we would be wiser—and the results would be surer^^ if we were to decide each case by determining whether the teacher has in fact violated his trust. Has he been intellectually dishonest? Has he mis­stated facts? Has he published a distorted bibli­ography? Has he preached a party line in his class­room? By such a determination we would be able to bar the practicing Communistfirom pur campuses, along with all others guilty of academic dishonesty or charlatanry. 
How can the facts be established? 
As one who holds a position of unusual trust," say most educators (including the teachers' own or­ganization, the AAUP), the teacher has a special obligation: if responsible persons make serious charges against his professional integrity or his in­tellectual honesty, he should be willing to submit to examination by his colleagues. If his answers to the charges are unsatisfactory—evasive, or not in accord with evidence—formal charges should be brought against him and an academic hearing, con­ducted according to due process, should be held. Thus, say many close observers of the academic scene, society can be sure that justice is done— both to itself and to the accused. 
Is the college teacher's freedom in any real jeopardy? 
H
ow FREE is the college teacher today? What guards. Without safeguards, freedom is sure to be are his prospects for tomorrow? Either here eroded and soon lost. or on the horizon, are there any serious So it is with the special freedom of the coU^e threats to his freedom, besides those threats to the teacher—the freedom of ideas on which our civiliza­freedom of us all? tion banks so mudi. 
Any reader of history knows that it is wise to Periodically, this freedom is buffeted heavily. In adopt the view that freedom is always in jeopardy. part of the past decade, the weather was particular­With such a view, one is likely to maintain safe­ly stormy. College teadiers were singed out fw 
Are matters of academic freedom easy Try handling some of tfiese 
You are a college president. 

Your college is your life. You have thrown every talent you possess into its development. No use being mod­est about it:' your achievements havei been great. 
The faculty has been strength­ened immeasurably. The student body has grown not only in size but in academic quaUly and aptitude. The campus itself—dormitories, lab­oratories, classroom buildings— would hardly be recognized by any­one who hasn't seen it since before you took over. 
Your greatest ambition is yet to be realized: the construction of a new library. But at last it seems to 
,be in si^t. Its principal donor, a wealthy man whom you have culti­vated for years, has only the techni­calities—^but what important tech­nicalities!—to complete: assigning 
. to the college a large block of secur­ities which, when sold, will provide the necessary $3,000,000. 
This afternoon, a newspaper re­porter stopped you as you crossed the campus. "Is it true," he asked, "that John X, of your economics department, is about to appear on ooast-to-coast television advocating deficit spending as a cornerstone of 
-federal fiscal policy? I'd like to do ah advance story about it, with your comments." 
You were not sidestepping the 

"question when you told the reporter you did not know. To tell the truth, you had never met John X, unless it bad been for a moment or two of small-talk at a faculty tea. On a bcdtiy numbering several hundred, there are bound to be many whom jKNi know so sli^tly that you might not leoognize them if they passed 
. you on the street. Deficit qiending! Only last night. 
your wealthy library-donor held forth for two hours at the dinner table on the immorality of it. By the end of the evening, his words were almost choleric. He phoned this morning to apologize. "It's the one subject I get rabid about," he said. "Thank heavens you're not teaching that sort of thing on your campus." 
You had your secretary discreetly check: John X's telecast is sched­uled for next week. It will be at least two months before you get those library funds. There is John X's extension number, and there is the telephone. And there are your lifetime's dreams. 
Should you ? 
I 

You are a university scientist. 
You are deeply involved in highly complex research. Not only the equipment you use, but also the laboratory assistance you require, is exi)ensive. The cost is far more than the budget of your university department could afford to pay. 
So, like many of your colleagues, you depend upon a governmental agency for most of your financial support. Its research grants and contracts make your work possible. 
But now,~. as a result of your studies and experiments, you have come to a conclusion that is dia­metrically opposite to that which forms the official policy of the agency that finances you—a policy that potentially affects the welfare of every citizen. 
You have outlined, and docu­mented, your conclusion forcefiiUy, in confidential memoranda. Re­sponsible officials believe you are mistaken; you are certain you are' not. The disagreement is profound. Clearly the goyemment will not accept your view. Yet you are con­vinced that it is so vital to your country's welfare that you should not keep it to yourself. 
You are a man of more than one heavy responsibility, and you feel them keenly. You are, of course, re­sponsible to your university. You have a responsibility to your col­leagues, many of whose work is financed similarly to yours. You are, naturally, responsible to your coun­try. You bear the responsibility of a teacher, who is expected to hold 
'back no knowledge firom his stu­dents. You have a responsibility to your own career. And you feel a responsibility to the people you see 
. on the street, whom you know your knowledge affects. — 
Loyalties, conscience, lifetime fi­nancial considerations: your di­lenuna has many horns. 
^Should you ...? 
You are 
a business man. 
You make toothpaste. It is good toothpaste. You maintain a research department, at considerable ex­pense, to keep it that way. 
A disturbing rumor reached you this morning. Actually, it's more than a rumor; you could class it as a well-founded report. The dental 
- school of a famous university is about to "publish the results of a~ study of toothpastes. And, if your informant had the facts straight, it can .do nothing but harm to your current selling campaign. 
You know the dean of the dental school^ quite well. Your company, as part of its policy of supporting good works in.dental science, has been a regular and aibstantial con­tributor to the school's development fiind. _ 
It's not as if you were thinking of suppressing anything; your record 
V 

to solve? problems. 
of taming out a good product—the best' you know—^is ample proof of that. But if that report were to come out now, in the midst of your campaign, it could be ruinous. A few monthsfrom now, and no harm would be done. . Would there be^anything wrong if you ...? .. 
Your daughter is at State. 
You're proud of her; first in her 
class - at high school; pretty girl; 
. popular; extraordinarily sensible, ' in spite of having lots of things to turn her head. 
lit was hard to send her off to the university last fall. She had never been awayfrvm the family for more than a day or two at a time. But you had to cut the apron-strings. And no experience is a better teacher than going away to college. 
You got a letter from her this 
- morning. Chatty, breezy, a bit sassy in a delightful way. You smiled as you read her youthful jargon. She delights in using it on you, because she remembers how you grimaced in mock horror whenever you heard it around the house. ­
Even sor you tiuned cold when you came to the paragraph about the sociology class. The so-called scientific survey that the professor had made of the sexual behavior of teen-agers. This is the sort of thing Margie is being taught at State? You're no prude, but — You know a member of the education com­mittee of the state legislature. Should you'.. 1? And on the coffee table is the letter that came ycster­
' dayfit>m the fund-raising_oflSce at State; you were planning to write a modest check tonight. To support more sociology profi^sors and their scientific surveys? I^ould you —? 
(i't­

special critidam if they did Jiotcohfcmi-tS popular „ patterns of thought. Utey.^fmd-often they akHoe,-^ were required to take oaths of loyally—-ias if teadi-­ers, somehow, were uniquely suspect. ;•_ _ ' ^^ ­
There was widespread inisunderstancKng of the teacher's role, as defined by. one umvexsity:presi­dent: ~ I " V' 
"It is inconceivable... that there can exist a^triie! ' community of scholars .without a diversity of views : and an atmosphere conducive to their exj^essioni^i .; . To have a diversity of views, it is essential that . we as individuals be willing to extend to our col­leagues, to our students, and to members of tteccnn­munity the privilege of presenting opinions whidi ­may, in fact, be in sharp conflict with those-which we espouse. To have an atmosphere offreedom, it is essential that we accord to sudi diverse viewsjthe '­same respect, the same attentive consideratioh, that ' we grant to those who express opinions with.wluch we are in basic agreement." . r, . 
T
HE STORM of the '50's was nationwide. It'was. . felt on every campus.. Today's storms are local; some campuses measure the threat to. their teachers' freedom at hurricane force, while others feel hardly a breeze. ^^ , -" _— Hence, the present—relatively calm—is a^ good ­time for assessing the values of academic freedoia,; and for appreciating them. The future is certain ta bring more threats, and thie understanding that we can build today may stand us in good stead/ then, w-What is the likely naturejof tomorrow's threats?: . "It is my sincere impressionthat the faculties of i. oiur universities have never enjoyed a greater lati­tude of intellectual freedom than they do today," \ , says the president of an institution notcxl for Jta­high standards of scholarship and freedom. "But this is a judgment relative only to the past.. "— "The search for triith has no ending. Tie need to seek truth for its own sake must constantlyjbe de-^ r fended. Again and again we shall have to in^t upon the right to express unorthodox views reached' >^ through honest and competent study. : 
"Today the physical sciences offer safe ^NKUKI fw .^ speculation.~We appear to have.made our peace ­with biology, even with the rather appalling im-J— plications of modem genetics. — '^^ •_ ,. 
"Now it is the sodal sciences that have aitaei ~. the arena. These are. young sdenoes, anid tiieylam^ ? difficult. But the issues ihvolved-r-the pc8iti(»iB7 ~^ taken with iesp(ect to such matters ^aseooncmiic-­growth, the tax structure, deficit financing, fly laws 
:-^­

affectinglabor and management, automation, social welfare, or foreign aid—are of enormous conse­
.quence to all the people of this country. If the critics of-our universities feel strongly on these questions, it is because rightly or wrongly they have identi­fied particular solutions uniquely with the future prosperity of our democracy. All else must then be heresy." 
Opposition to such "heresy"—and hence to aca­demicfreedom—is certain to come. 
I 
N THE FUTURE, as at present, the concept of aca­demic freedom will be far from imcomplicated. Applying its principles in specific cases rarely will beeasy. Almost never wiU the facts be all white or all black; rather, the picture that they form is more likely to be painted in tones of gray. 
To forget this, in one's haste to judge the right­ness orwrpngness of a' case, will be to expose oneself to the danger of acting injudiciously:—^and of com­
mitting injustice.J' 

The subtleties ^ul compkzities found in the ^ray areas will be endless. iSven the scope of academic freedom will be involved. Siould its privileges, for example, apply only to faculty members? Or should they extend to students, aswell? Should students, as well as faculty members, be free to invite con­troversial outsiders to the campus to address them? And so on and on. ' r 
The educated alumnus and alumna, faced with specific issues involving academic freedom, may well ponder these and other questions in years to come.' Legislators, regents, trustees, college ad­ministrators, students, and faculty members will be pondering them, also. They willlook to the alumnus and alumna for understanding and—^if the cause be just—^for support. Let no reada: underestimate the difficulty—or the importance—of his role. 
Illustrations by Robert Ross 
The report on tliis and the preceding 15 pages is the product of a cooperative endeavor in wliich 
"What Right 

scores of sdiools, colleges, and universities are taking part. It was prepared under the direction . of the group listed below, who form EDITOKIAI. PBoncis roJtmnaiMnon, a non-profit oi^ganization Has This Man?" associated with the Amoican Alumni Council. Copyright 0~1963 by Editorial Projects for 
Education, Inc. All rights reserved; no part of this report may be reproduced without express permiasion of the editors. Printed in U.S.A. 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG  DENTON  REAL  DAVID A. BURR  .  DAN  ENDSLET  
-The University of Notre Dame  Carnegie Institute of Technology  The University of OUaftoma  Stanford  University  
MABALTM O. GILLESPIE  L. FRANKLIN  HEALD  CHARLES M. BBLMKEN  KEN HEIZLER^  

Swartkmore College The University of New HampAire American Alumni Council The University of Oregon 
JOHN I. MATTiU. JOBN W. PATON _ ROBERT L. PATTON 
JEAN D. LINBHAM 

Massachusetts Institute of T^hnology Wesleyan University Washington University 
ROBERT M. RHODES STANLEY SAPUN . :, VERNE A. STADTHAN ntANCES PROVENCE 
The University of Pennsylvania New York University 7^ University of California ..­. Baylor University CHARLES E. WIDHATER REBA WILCOXON DOROIHT P. WILLIAMS FRANK J. TATE Dartmouth College --The University of Arkansas . Simmons CollegeThe Ohio State University ELIZABETH BOND WOOD CHESLET WORIHINGION:; CORKN GWALTNET RONALD A. WOLK Sweet Briar College Brown University Executive Editor ..7%e Johiu Hopkins University 
•^i 
ACADEMIC FREEDOM (from page 28) that the teacher and the student together follow the argu­ment wheresoever it might lead. If the argument leads to conclusions that are unpopular, the professor must be protected. A most significant meaning of academic free­dom is that it guarantees a professor that he will not have to teach what he personally does not believe, think, or know to be the case. 
From the viewpoint of society, any infringement or interference with academic freedom implies that someone other than the professor himself is determining what he, the professor, may or may not teach. What person or persons in society are qualified to make this determina­tion? The university administration, including the pro­fessor's peers and colleagues, must, of course, make the decision regarding a particular professor's scholarly and teaching competence. But not even the university world itself would be qualified to sit in judgment on the content of what a scholar, teaching in his own field, should or should not teach. 
To regard the college or university professor as simply 
a mouthpiece or a human recording machine for the ideas 
and opinions of others is to destroy the deepest and best 
meaning of teaching. 
Academic freedom at a Catholic university 
* SOMEWHAT NEW dimension is added to the discussion " of academic freedom when one thinks of its mean­ing for or at a Catholic university. The Catholic univer­sity is a true university and those who teach in it lay fuU claim to academic freedom. Indeed, some will say with good reason that academic freedom is both more possible and more in evidence at a Catholic university than at other universities. Agreement on fundamentals enhances academic freedom rather than curtails it. The Catholic university has a systematic intellectual heritage from which it draws both its purposes and its reasons for being. And this heritage is one in which human dignity, human rights, and human responsibilities, in all forms, are impor­tant ingredients. Rooted in a noble concept of man, of the value of knowledge, and of the importance of the teaching profession, academic freedom at a Catholic uni­versity is regarded as a valued prerogative of those who devote themselves to the life of the mind and the work of teaching. 
The right to teach, which is the fundamental meaning of academic freedom, means exactly the same in a Catholic university as it means in any university. It is a right or privilege won by advanced learning and by recognized proficiency in the selection, organization, and communica­tion to students of knowledge, methods, attitudes, and ideals. The man who has not gone through the scholarly processes of examining what he believes and what he teaches does not have the right to teach in any university, including Catholic universities. Neither does he qualify for academic freedom, since he is really not at home in the academic world. Academic freedom establishes and protects the special relationship bet\veen qualified and responsible professors or teachers and their students. 
At a Catholic university, such as at the University of Notre Dame, the individual Catholic faculty member happens to have arrived, through whatever means, at the same central theological and, to a lesser e.xtent, philo­sophical positions as his fellow Catholic faculty members. This is a community of scholars who hold certain intellec­tuEd positions in common. Those faculty members at a 
Catholic university who are not Catholic share in the 
avowed purposes and aspirations of the university. Most 
Catholic universities look as much to scholarly and pro­
fessional competence as they do to a religious aflSliation 
in inviting persons to become faculty members. Faculty 
members, whether they are Catholic or not, enjoy the 
same academic freedom . . . and for the same reasons . . . 
as do faculty members at any university. Apart from 
some essential and unifying ideas regarding the nature 
of God, of the Church, and of man, the Catholic univer­
sity takes no oflScial stands. 
Freedom of inquiry and academic freedom are corre­
lative and complementary sides of the same coin. And 
even the consensus on essential notes, which identify a 
university as a Catholic university, is open to furdier 
inquiry, exploration, and evaluation. 
No 'party line' for inquiry 
D OTH FREEDOM of inquiry and academic freedom exist in ^ full measure at a Catholic university. There is no official position or party Une on the intellectual, SOCIEQ, scientific, political, or even artistic problems of the day. The Catholic university looks to professional competence in its faculty members and it holds in highest regard the inviolability of the total academic enterprise. To say that a Catholic university is conservative or liberal, re­publican or democratic, that it favors states' rights, or federalism, or one-worldism, in short, to say that it is pro-"this" or anti-"that," is meaningless. 
At every university, including Catholic universities, ideas must gain or lose acceptance on their own merit. They wax or wane, depending on the evidence they Ccirry. The same patient and rigorous testing of hypotheses goes on in a Catholic university as at any university. Precision in statement and caution in generalization characterize the Catholic college or university as much as they do any other. Individual faculty members at a Catholic college or university have their own ideas and their own preferences on practically every question that arises. 
In any given year in the university's history there may be more conservatives than liberals on its faculty just as ne.\t year there may be more liberals than con­servatives. But a healthy and vigorous university seeks to maintain a reasonable balance among points of view, though this is not a matter of numerical proportion. All universities reflect, to some e.xtent, the movements and the leading ideas of the day. 
Finally, like all private universities, a Catholic univer­sity is to an appreciable extent dependent upon its stu­dents, its alumni, and its friends, for its support and its advancement. Because of the importance of its work and because people naturally feel deeply about the lite and spirit of the university, the academic community at a private Catholic college or university may have great pressures brought to bear on it. Some persons will always want certain ideas stressed and others will want them minimized. Pressure and tension are parts of every human situation, and the university life is no exception. Pressures brought to bear \vill almost always be well intentioned Emd they wiU likewise almost always impose anguishing decisions and choices. But even in the face of these pressures, a Catholic university must exercise itself constantly to foster and preserve academic freedom. It must seek to spread widely the understanding of the nature of the university and it must exert every effort to win the faith and confidence of all those persons who, since they have a basic affection and respect for the university, really desire nothing more than that the uni­versity remain true to its proper purposes. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 
dent ol Sora Loan Corp., Chicago, sccrclary-trcas­
urcr of Alonzi Acceptance Corp., and director and 
secretary of Chicago Lenders exchange. His wife 
Angeline» a daughter, a brother and a sister, and 
his parents sun'ivc. 
Dr. JOHN J. GILR.\NE, *40, died of a heart 
attack in his home januar>- 10, 1963. He was as­
sistant professor of pathology- at USC and served 
as pathologist at four Los Angeles hospitals. Dr. 
Gilrane was also sccrctari'-treasurer of tlie Catholic 
Physicians Guild of L.A. His wife Helen, t^vo 
daughters, his father and a sister survive. 
XfELVYN P. TOMBER, '45, of ^ti5hawaka, Ind.. 
died February' 26, 1963, after scleral weeks of ill­
ness. Sur\'iving are his w*ife Sibyl, a son and 
daughter, his parents, and a sister. 
WARNER JOSEPH STOLL, '48, of Jackson, 
&{ich., died according to word received in the 
Alumni Office. No details. 
WILLIAM R. SCHOLZ, '51, architectural in­
terior designer, was fatally injured in an auto 
accident February 2, 1963. .\fter graduation, he 
went to New York and was connected ^v•ith several 
national mercantile establishments. In 1960 he 
ino\'ed to ^fobile, Ala., and recently became man­
ne r of Office Supplies, Inc. He was one of the 
founders of the ^fobile Area Toy Bowl Assoc, 
and was actt\'e in Catholic youth work. Sun'iving 
him are hts wife, parents, a brother and a sister. 
Capt. RONALD A. KERSTING, *54, died in an 
aircraft accident at Kadcna Air Base, Okinawa, 

on December 20, 1962. Sur\-ivors include his wife 
in Tampa, Florida, and his parents. 
DON RICHARD JOHNSON, '56, died No­

vember 12, 1960, according to word received from 
his widow who is now living in South Bend. 
WILLIAKl M. KEENAN. '57, of Sanford, 
Florida, died February 22, 1963, in a Florida hospi­

tal of injuries suffered in an automobile accident 
the preceding day. He was a fniit farmer in San­
ford where he had resided for the last four years. 

His wife Mar>', whom he married in 1959, survives. 
THOMAS J. McINTYRE, '59, died just before 

Christmas, 1962. He was working for the Grant 
Advertising Co. which informed us of hb death. 
Mr. Grant wrote: "He was everything a young 
Catholic gentleman should be in every way." S>in­
palhy is extended to his parents in Lakewood, 
Ohio, and his brother PATRICK E., '61. 
SYMPATHY 

HAROLD J. '24, and THO^US E. COOKE, '24, on the death of their mother, December 27, 1962. GERALD V. McDERMOTT, '26, on the death of his father, Februari- 24, 1963. ERNEST v., '28, and JOHN J. RIEDER, '38, on the death of their mother, March 6, 1963. THOMAS BROBSON, '34, on the death of his mother. EARL F. FRAREV, '36, on the death of his father, March 29, 1963. JOSEPH KUHARICH, '38, on the death of his father, March 7, 1963. CHARLES P., '38, ROBERT T., '47, and JAMES 
N. TERRY, '54, on the death of their father. May 26, 1962. LOUIS L. DA PRA, '39, on the death of his mother, March 20, 1963. REV. RICHARD L. FALLON, '40, on the death of his mother, Fcbruarv. 1963. JOHN P. MAGUIRE, '42, on the death of his wife, November 1, 1962. JAMES F. CASEY, '44, on the death of his mother. EDWARD H. BALL, JR.. '45, on the death of his father, Februan- 19, 1963. ROBERT H. WATERBURY, '47, on the death of his mother, December, 1962. 1VILLIAM A. DURKIN, JR., '49, on the death of his father, February 19, 1963. ROBERT L. KESSING, JR., '49, on the death of his father, January- 5, 1963. JOHN C. KRUEGER, '49, on the death of his father, January 4. 1963. JOHN F. MOORHEAD, '49, on the death of his mother, March 6, 1963. WILLIAM S. SAHM, '51, on the death of his father, March, 1963. GEORGE W. BROWN, '52, on the death of his father. May 22, J962. MILLARD T. BATTLES, JR., '55, on the death of his mother, March, 1963. DANIEL J. SHANNON, '55, on the death of his mother, March 5, 1963. JOHN P. HOGAN, '58, on the death of his mother. RONALD W. KOPER, '58, on the death of his father, November 3, 1962. 
JAMES H. SCHAAF, '59, on the death of his mother, March 28, 1963. 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 
REV. CORNELIUS HAGERTY, '06, a bit winded after a brilliant tirade at tbe South Bend Hibernians' annual St. FatricL's Day banquet, is Banked by two fans: his brother, George Hagerty, '11 and Walter L. Clements, secretary of the Notre Dame Qass of '14. 
. 50-YEAR CLUB 
Retired Vice Admiral ROBERT CARLISLE 
GIFFEN, *95-'96, who commanded Na\'al forces 
covering American troops' landings at Casablanca, 
Truk, Guam and Saipan during World War II, died 
December 10, 1962, at the Naval Hospital, Bethcsda, 
Md. Decorated for service in both wars, he retired 
in 1946 after nearly 40 years of Na\'y ser\'ice. He 
had since raised cattle and tobacco on his 220-acre 
farm. In addition to his wife, Elsie, he leaves a 
son and a daughter. 
CHARLES SWEENEY, soldier of fortune who 
fought in seven wars under five flags, died Febru­
ary 2V, 1963. A native of San Francisco, he was 
one of the organizers of the Lafayette Escadrille in 
wliicii Americans flew for France during ^Vorld War 
I. Before America entered W. W. II, he organized the Royal .Air Force's .American "Eagle Squadron." Sweeney enlisted as a private in the French Foreign Legion in 1914 and rose to the rank of It. col. He was transferred to the U.S. Army in 1917 when .•\merica entered the war. Wounded three times, he retired at the end of the war as a colonel. Later he fought as a general in the Polish army against the Bolsheviks, then joined the revolutionary army of Kcmal Ataturk of Turkey. His widow, now living in France, survives him. 
MAURICE A. NEVILLE, '99, founder and vice-president of the Western Indiana Gravel Co. (nov\* the Western Indiana Aggregates Corp.) died Janu­ar>* 3, 1963, after a two-year illness. He was a resi­dent of West Lafayette, Ind. Mr- Neville was a director of the National Sand and Gravel Co. and a member of its executive board from 1930 to 1938; and a member of the National, Indiana, and Lafay­ette Chambers of Commerce. Sur\nving arc a son and four daughters. 
Prayers arc requested for the recovery of FRAN­CIS J. ONZON, '95, who is suffering from a broken hip and arm after a fall at his residence January 25, 1963. Mr. Onzon is the oldest practicing attor­ney in Corpus Christi, Texas, and has ser\*ed as county attorney and city councilman. 

We had another communique from one of our best correspondents PAUL MARTIN-DILLON. Paul celebrated another birthday in Marcli, and the pile of mail he received led him to believe that maybe people thought this was about their last chance to send him a greeting. Wc tend to disagree with Paul. 
St. Edward's University Alumni Association sent out a post card concerning their Reunion Weekend April 20-21. (And let us not forget ours, June 14­16!) The "coming attraction" «-as REV. COR­NELIUS "CON" J. H.\GERTY, C.S.C., a teacher at St. Edward's in the '20s and '30s. 
^V. WARD DUCKETT, '03, appreciated JIM ARMSTRONG'S "Historical Note," and penned us a thought of his own. He was reminded of a "quite red-checked young boy" who sat next to him in a choir in 1898 at St. Thomas Church, Ann Arbor, Jkfidiigan. His name was John O'Hara. "He al>«-ays said he wished to be a priest but I never knew he was president of Notre Dame until I read of his serious sickness and death as Archbishop Car­
' dinal of Philadelphia." 
1914 
Walter L. Clements 623 P^rk Ave South Bend, Indiana 
Re\-. Sali-atore P. Fanclli, C.S.C., *14 
Within a few weeks, the University of Notre 
Dame will be prominently participating in the 
centennial of the battle of Gett>*sburg, June 29th 
at the site of the engagement, in memor>' of the 
absolution Father Corby gave to members of the 
Irish Brigade on the second day of the battle. So 
it is fitting that the Class of '14 should know the 
career of one of its members who has led a reli­
gious life in the service of God and his fellow man. 
After graduating with the Class of '14, FATHER SALVATORE P. FANELU, C.S.C., H-as ordained by Bishop Alerding at Notre Dame's Sacred Heart Church in 1916. Father Fanclli, one of eight sons of Anthony and Mary Fanelli of Louis\ilIe, Ky., came to Notre Dame for his high school work and remained at the University for eight years of academic studies including college. How he came to enter the Holy Cross seminary brings out the typical story of one of the many nuns, faithfully teaching in primary* schools, who have inspired their students to help make this world a better place to live. 
Mother Margaret Mary, of the Sisters of Mercy, told him that whatever he wanted to be in life, she would help him. He first said he wanted to be an engineer. Then, he told her he had changed his mind and wanted to be a priest. Brother Celestine, C.S.G., had served on the Louisville police force sevei^ years before becoming a Holy Cross brother. It u-as through him at the sug­gestion of Mother Margaret Marj* that Father Fanelli was introduced to the Holy Cross Order and Notre Dame. That was in 1905, not long after Father Sorin's time. Father Fanclli knew many of the professors and priests of those days whose names are legendary-. He had been bom within three or four blocks of the historic Cathedral of the Assumption in Louisville, attended the Cathedral primary school and studied for a year at the school then operated at Gethsemane near BardstowTi, Ken­tucky. 
For the past 23 years he has been at St. Joseph's Church in South Bend. During nearly all of the time he has been cliaplain of its Legion of Mar>-Praesidium, the most accomplished one of the South Bend Deanery. He is state chaplain of the Indiana Wing of the Civil Air Patrol, comprised of cinlians with air force experience and those working toward that end. Before that, he had scr\-ed in New Orleans for nine years, six years at what is now St. Mar>-'s Cathedral in Austin, Texas, and three years at the preparatory school of the Brothers of the Holy Cross at Valatic, New York. 
If one could say Iliat his life ^vas uneventful, it is because it was, and still is, so full of tlie right kind of events. Wc dare say there'll be many more good events to hear concerning him when accounts are reckoned on Judgment Day. 
When LEO 2GOD2INSKI graduated in phar­macy, he had been registered as an assistant pharmacist two years before, in 1912. Born in South Bend, he had started out working around its drugstores in 1906. Now, after 51 years of continuous work at his profession in South Bend, he says he expects to continue at it as long as he is able. He says that the way to keep alive is to keep working. 
He was one of the Notre Dame students of our day who was blessed by having Fatlier Julius Nieuwiand, C.S.C., as his professor in pharmac>* and cliemistry. Those who studied under the re­nou-ned Father Nieuwiand in those days felt the inspiration of his genius. Among others thus fortu­nate was Leo's classmate and co-worker In cliemistry and pharmacy, the famed KNUTE K. ROCKNE. Leo says that all the time he worked with "Rock," he never once heard him say that he expected to be a football coach after graduating. As a matter of fact, Rockne started out teacliing as an assistant professor in cliemistry. Had he not entered the athletic field as Coach Harper's assistant, his career in chemistry would have been equally dis­tinguished. 
Being a native of South Bend, Leo attended the University as what is known as a "day dodger" — a group who in college annuals and alumni peri­odicals are often not heard from as much as they should be, particularly where so large a percent 

of the students reside on the campus. Though to be a native of a college town and graduate from its college has ad^'antages. 
Leo's two sons and daughter all reside in South Bend and have families. From his long experience as a pharmacist, he says retailen sell drugs at one-third increase in cost and no blame for their alleged high cost rests with them. 
DICK BRAUN Has been a prominent figure in Port Arthur, Texas, so long, he can just about be considered one of the dty fathers. Yet, when we sent him word that we thought him a good sub­ject for a thumbnail sketch, we received the reply that his life had been uneventful. T7iac*s like say­ing "people come and people go, but nothing ever happens." 
Dick Braun is a key man in the big plant of OJin Mathewson in the great industrial center of Port Arthur where, fourteeners, like the writer have found him and his m^cious wife most hospitable. Like EMMET WALTERS in neighboring Houston, which has named a suburban branch of the city library for him, he Is Just about indispensable to his home town and that's saying something, even for Texas. 
He did not set up his chemical laboratory in Manitowoc as predicted in the *14 "Dome," but he **made good" in Texas, and that's good, particu­larly in a city which "oils the world" like Port Arthur says it docs. 
1915 
Albert A. Kuhle 
117 S. Sutisct Ave. 
La Grange, Illinois 
From the Alumni Office: Very good news for all 'ISers! As you can sec by the class heading. ALBERT A. KUHLE has agreed to accept the position as Class Secretary. For any of you who would like to write Al with news for his first column, his address is: 117 South Sunset Ave., La Grange, Illinois. Our first com­munique from AI was not really intended for publi­cation, but after attaining his appro\'al, w*e have decided to print it in full. It is addressed to the editor. "Your letter of April 10th readied me the day after I returned from a two months* stay in Califor­nia and points West. I feel honored to be desig­nated Secretary of the Class of 1913 to succeed Jim Sanlordy an old tricnd of mine. I w'tU accept be­cause it is little enough to ask of me as one of the alumni of Notre Dame. *'I notice that April 15th is the copy deadline for tlie June-July issue. TliIs, of course, afl'ords me no time at all to contact members of the I9I3 Class. I suggest that you simply mention that I will be in touch with all those whose addresses are on the list you sent to me (A Class Roster vvas sent to AI.— Ed.), and that in the meantime I'll be glad to hear from any and all. "It isn't too early to lay plans for our 50th Re­union. Ever>' living member should consider his presence a must. It will indeed be a privilege to meet again those who have been blessed witli so many years. 
"I'll have some notes for the next issue. . . ." This is a delayed letter written to the late JIM SANFORD from NORXL\N RANSTEAD: "Since we are now midway between the 19G0 Reunion and tlie 1965 Reunion it is a little early for making dates. However, God willing, I shall plan to be there — most certainly in case we adhere to present plans and remain m the Chicago area. (Norm's ad­dress is: 124 N. Wolf Rd., Dcs Plaincs, Illinois.) "I was retired by V.O.P. Co. in October 31, 1962 
— it was their idea — not mine. A new rule with respect to retirement at age 65 was the basis for their dedsion. 
"I am endorsing one of my cards ('Norman H. Ranstead, Consultant'). You will recall that during our trip to South Bend for the 1960 Reunion I ad­vised you of my intention to enter consulting work at such time as I should be retired by V.O.P. Co. 
"For the past two years I have been responsible for the design of V.O.P. Co. F.C.C. (Fluid Cata­lytic Cracking) Units with particular reference to the basic features of tlie rcactor-regcncralor sec­tions of the process. . . . 
"I want to keep busy — but not too busy as there arc many interests which have been set aside over the years pending retirement." 
1916 
Grover F. Miller 220 9Ui Street Racine, Wisconsin 
From the Alumni Office: 
Dr. Rhea Eckel, the wife of JACOB ECKEL and president of Cazenovia College, was the redpient of the Tipp-Off Award given by Tipperary Hill American Legion Post 1361. The plaque she re­ceived honors her ability as an educator and an administrator, "wemplifying simplicity of opera­tion while enlisting spirited assistance beneficial be­yond her parochial boundaries." 
GROVER MILLER reports that news is scarce from his dassmates, but he did hear from EMMETT 
P. MULHOLLAND, Attorney at Law, in Long Beach, California. He writes: "There is no per­sonal news of importance, but I have learned as of Christmas time that JIM ODEM has been inca­pacitated at home for several months due to a cir­culatory condition. His brother Brian has also retired from practice and lives in Houston, Texas." 
Forty-Fifth Anniversary Reunion June 14-15-16 

1918 
Charles W. Call 225 Paterson Ave. Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey 
From the Alumni Office: Vour Secretary, CHARLES CALL, topped off the Florida season with a hasty trip to Rio de Janeiro, with stops in Seranam (Dutch Guinea) and Puerto Rico. Then on May Ist we received a note in the office saying: ^'Sailing this date on quickie trip to England, Germany and Austria. Plan to be back in time fnr the big Reunion." He also added that BILL ANDRES hopes to be on hand for that Monogram outing Reunion Week End. 
TWO N.D. MEN at Gettysburg: Paul Martin-Dillon, '09, studies the statue of Rev. William Corby, C.S.C., on the Civil ^Var battlefield. Mr. Martin-Dillon is the great-nephew of Rev. James Dillon, C.S.C., a fellow chaplain with Father Corby in the Army of the Potomac and Irish Brigade. 
1919 
Thco. C Radcmakcr Peru Foundry Co. Peru, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office: 
It is probably good fortune that we have tmhr one item for the column this issue because the letter sent to us is of such interest we have fleadrd to atinte it in full. It is from FATHER TOBf GAYNOR, O.P., St. Peter Martyr Priory^ Winou, Minn, (llie letter is addressed to your Alnmiii Secretary, JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25.) 
"It was pleasant hearing from you whom I remember very well as possessing an engjqfingly pleasant personality from the days when I was a student at Notre Dame. Since that time I have had many adventures before being ordained in tfac' Dominican Order two years ago. 
"Among these were teaching art at the Salesian College, London; founding a high school in Foynes, Ireland; publishing a novel. Through tkm Dark Valley, in that same Io\-ely island, begun under the inspiration of Father Pat Carroll now in glory; returning to the States and teaching Uterattue at Duquesne University where I published my first book of verse. Perfumes from Many Gardgus^ 
, including the Class poem of 1919 at Notre Dame. During World War II, I served as instructor at the Coast Guard Institute, Groton, Connecticut. After the war I did some graduate work in histonr at California University, and later taught Spanish and Soaology at IMFOS College for four years. After that, the greatest adventure of all was m y preparation for the priesthood and my ordinatioa in Washington at the Shrine of Mary Immaculate. At the present time I am somewhat busy helping out here, and sometimes in various parishes, con­vents, and the like. 
"I hope this little summary of my activities mar be of some use to you. In detail they would fill a good fat volume. 
"Give my kindest regards to any old Itiends who may still remember me at Notre Dame of which school I have some very cJierished memories. . . .*' 
1921 
Dan Duffy 1101 Superior Bldg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 
I notified the Class of '21 of the deaths of AVILLUM P. LAWLESS, PAUL VAN ACKEREN and AVILLIAM J. FITZGERALD, and herewith I quote from a few April answers to my letter. 
From JIM HUXFORO: "I have just returned from a "bon voyage" luncheon to our mutual friend, J. LEO KELLY, who will leave next week on the Queen Elizabeth to join at I^urdes the Notre Dame Foundation Tour. Present were FRED DELANEY and WILUAM SULLIVAN. We were trying to give him the send-off which he docs so dcser\-e. 
"I have before me your mess^e of March 28th. It was nice to hear from you because we were not sure it-hetber you were up in Adam or slumped back in the easy chair. 
"I had lost track of PAUL M. VAN ACKEREN, my classmate, and during the last week, while going through the archives in my desk, I ran onto a letter from BILL LAWLESS. I had in­tended to write Bill in the near future. .. . Last September I was making my final business tour oF the Central Division of Niagara Mohawk and had a short visit with JOE BRANDY late in the afternoon. Because I had to make a mile and get to Massena that night, we did not have a chance for a golf game. Brandy, as you know, is promoting and operating a wircd-in television system for the City of Ogdensburg. The last golf game that Kelly had with him, Leo, as usual, had a hard time getting the strokes from Joe which he desired. If the Niagara Mohawk plans don't change, I will find mj-self after Oct. 1st, looking for employment because I expect to retire. There will be no problem in the summer because I live very close to our golf course in Skaneateles and if I can still walk, I can spend a lot of time there. It was nice to receive your communication, and I hope that I can join you again in June, 1966 at the next reunion." 
FRANK A. KANE wrote: **Your notice re­ceived about the boys who passed away, and goiny back all the years it is hard to remember many of the old fares, but I do recall the names. 
"ED MEAGHER was my good friend who just passed away a short time ago. BILL MAGHER from Courdand, N.Y., who passed away some ten years ago, was my own roommate. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, I9S3 47 
"LEO KELLY, DUKE KIXNEY and the rest of us here meet once in a while, and I met JOE BRANDY of Ogdcnsburg when he was in town. Thanking you for writing to mc and hoping to be able to meet the old faces in 1966, if pos­
sible, and you too . . . " 
Frank postscripts: *'In school I spelled my name Kcane but changed it to Kane in 1923." 
And from ARTHUR E. SHERIDAX: "Vcr>­sorr>' to hear of the passing of our two alumni brothers. ^Vc will remember each of them at Mass. 
"I did not know of the death of Bill Lawless. 1$ he of the Lawless family that live in Chicago? I am sorr>* to hear of his passing, and he too will be remembered at Mass. 
"My son, LEE SHERIDAN, A Notre Dame man who practiced law Viith me, is critically ill. We, of course, arc anxiously and prayerfully w-aiting for his recovery [as are your classmates. Art. DWD]. 
"BILL TSCHUDI, a former Notre Damcr of Dubuque, recently passed away. Wc had planned on taking the European trip with the Notre Darners this spring, but due to the illness of our son, we were unable to go. I hope that our football problems will be settled and that we again may be in the limelight." 
From the Alumni Office: From JOCK MOONEY: "To keep from being carried on the 1921 Class rolls as 'Non est inventus'; Co wit: not to be found, I am making my 10-year report. "It took me 13 years to become a father, but not so long to become a grandfather. Charles Patrick Joseph Mooney IV arrived Jan. 18, 1963. Since Ills mother ts full Irish (uhJch 'Sirs. Sfooncy and I are not), IV is now the most Irish mem­ber of the family. I assume that by now some of the Class of 1921 are great-grandfathers. It*s been a long time since I entered as a prep in 1913. "I am distressed to learn of the death of Fr. Matt Walsh, as great a front line soldier as he was a priest. As Judge ROGER KILEY com­mented conccmint* Frs. TOM STEINER, WALSH, TOM and EUGENE BURKE ct al.: 'ANTiat wonder­ful men we were given to know'." "A fine culog>- on WILLIAM F. L.U\XESS from an editorial in the Waynesboro (Va.) Standard: '"No indi\-idual can depart this life without tak­ing with him a part of all his friends. In the sudden death of *Biir Lawless many of us have lost a friend. He was rugged, strong, forceful and fortliright . . . and yet he was kindly, generous, helpful and considerate. His presence brought a gay and delightful aura into a room or a meeting. '*Few men have made more of an impact upon the lives of so many. He just didn't pass through life placidly; he stirred the pot into action and generated an atmosphere of purpose. He was a good, efficient and successful engineer with the Du Pont Company . . , but, above all, he was a man!" . . . And so the editorial continues on Bill. Wc know his wife, "Sis," and cliildren must be very proud of him. 
1922 
G. A. "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Rd. No. Rochester 25, N. Y. 
Death has thinned the 1922 ranks considerably in recent months. Our records presently indicate that live of our beloved classmates have gone on to augment the 1922 forces in Purgator\- and Heaven, since we convened for our 40lh .-Vnni­versar>- Reunion last June. Wc extend our deep sj-mpathy to widows and other family members ot the deceased. Let us not forget our beloved dead of '22. Again, our grateful thanks to Dr. AL\TT ^VEIS, FRANK BLOEMER and other members of ^lass Memorial Committee of our Class for arranging Masses for tlic deceased, and to all Class members who contribute donations to make same possible. Here is a listing of our recent losses: DANIEL M. COUGHLDC, AVaseea, Minn. 
— died 1/4/63 in U.S. Veterans Hospital. Fort Snelling, Minnesota; CHARLES A. BLACK of Tulsa — no date; SISTER NL\RY JUDITH CON­NELLY died February 1962; REV. FATHER ROBERT GALLAGHER, Toledo, Ohio — died 8/18/62. Father Bob attended St. Mary's Seminary in Baltimore, and was-- pastor in Van Wert, Ohio, for many years before his assignment to Toledo; CLEM D. HAGERTY, San Antonio, Texas — died 12/17/62; RO.MANU5 F. NADOLNfiY. Houston, 
48 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 

WICHITA — Among the principals at Universal Notre Dame Night in Wichita's Prairie Cluh were (l.-r.): Nestor Weigand, Jr., membership chairman; George A. Schwarz, president; J. L. Weigand, Jr., past president; and WiJIiam T, Dawtt, secretary-treasurer. Dinner ^vas held April 24, with John Laughlin as a guest from campus. 
Texas — died 2/21/63; JOHN C. P. REGAN, Chicago — died 9/22/62. 
W^c arc indebted to TOM LEE ot 1923, who sent along a press clipping from Minneapolis to tcU us about the fine accomplishments of our be­loved DAN*NY COUGHUN, who was better known to his fellow townsmen as *'Masty" Coughlin. He was Postmaster in Waseca for 12 years, also, was former editor of the Waseea "Herald." He had ser\*cd as president, both of the ^linncsola Editorial Association, and the Minnesota Post­masters Association. In his earlier years, Danny coaclied basketball and football at Duluth Ca­thedral High. ^Ve all remember him as a crack football halfback in the Rocknc era, a wonderful friend, a loyal and active classmate. Possibly some of our readers can fill us in with a bit of information on classmates: Hagcrty, Nadolncy, and Regan. ^Ve deeply regret the loss of each and ever>' one of the aforementioned. 
Travel Department — The HAROLD WEBERS of Diamond Lake and South Bend, shortly after the dust of our Reunion had settled, started out on a two montlis' North Pole cruise. They xisited Iceland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Lenin­grad, Gcrmanv, Belgium, Holland, and Ireland. Mrs. HENRY S. (Evelyn) ATKINSON of Green Bay, Wisconsin, was slated for a Caribbean cruise on the steamship Hanscatic sailing out of Fort Lauderdale, Florida in February". Wonder if she met Madeline and CHARLIE CROWLEY of Weston, ^lass., who were wintering in the Fort Lauderdale area. PAUL McDERMOTT, ex-Minne­sota Saint Paulete, who now sails out of Palm Beach, Florida, by land, air or by sea, reports he was on a trip to Europe visiting Portugal, Spain, France, Italy, England and Ireland. He was in Rome while the Ecumenical Council was in session. 
Grandfathers Department has two new members: TOM S. McCABE and GERALD "Midnight" MURPHY. 
Bouquets and Brickbat Department — from Mrs. WALTER J. (Mildred) STUHLDREHER: "It is alwa>'S with the greatest interest that I read your reports of the Class of '22 in the 
N.D. ALUMNUS. It hardly seems possible that you could have celebrated >-our 40lh Reunion Annivcrsarj" last June." 
New Address Department — FRANK W. CON­NELLYS, 859 Hugo Reid Drive, Arcadia, Cali­fornia. RAYMOND A. McGARRYS, 1600 South Joyce St., Ariington 2; Virginia. JOSEPH FAR­LEYS, 424 Soutli Leitch .Ave., LaGrange, Illinois. Mrs. HAROLD (Ellen) McKEE, 5669 ^Vest Wash­ington Blvd., Chicago. Mrs. CHARLES J. (Pat) HIRSCHBUHL, 4460 S.^V. Scholls Ferry Rd., Apt. 23-.\, Portland 25, Oregon. EDWARD J. GOTTRY, 405 West 23rd St.. Apt. lOF, New York City. 
Neu-5 tidbits — JIM HENEGHAN, son of Phyllis and GEORGE (RIP) HENEGHAN of South Bend, is now in the surgical department of Louisiana State Univcrsit>'^5 Medical School in charge of their germfree laborator>'. He is, also, in the physiology dept. and conducts seminars. Mrs. STEVE CARMODY of Cariin\*ille, Illinois, writes: *'Chuck is te:ich!ng junior high in Charleston; 
T.P. is practicing law in Carlinville, and doing very well; Mary Jo is married and living in South Bend, and has three children; .^nn is home with me." Mrs. EDWIN J. (Ilene) BYRNE is teach­ing this year in Saint Aloysius School, Baton Rouge, La. The FRANK BLOE.MERS of Aripcka, Florida (P.O. Box 99), can be readied by tele­phone through the Brooksville, Florida exchange. Their number is 596-2322. 
Fortieth Anniversary Reunion June 14-15-16 
1923 
Louis V. Bruggner 2165 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office: Class prcxy JOHN C. NORTON has been named controller of Old Equity Life Insurance Co., £\*anston. III. 
FRED A. JOYCE & Son (FRED, JR., '50), advertising and public relations agenc>*, is ob­ser\'ing the completion of its 25th year in busi­ness. Fred founded the business as a public re­lations firm in 1937, but with expansion the com­pany lias specialized in financial and real estate advertising as well as publicity. In 1954 a New York office was opened with Fred, Jr., as head. 
From ED RYAN, 1819 Logan St. Number 2, Rockford, III.: 
"The recent issue of the ALUMNTJS brought back a few memories. I was employed by the .American Trust Co. in South Bend the summer of 1921 and stayed there until Feb. 1922 when I returned to Notre Dame, I had noticed the name of AL RYAN in the list of inactive accounts and when he returned to work at the school, I met him one day on the campus. I said, 'Al, did you leave any money in your checking account?* He said, 'There might have been a /ew dollars.* I told him there was about §300. Al promised mc a diickcn dinner which I never received. 
"After graduating in 1923, I worked for John 
W. Toyne, Water Works Supt. as an inspector at the Oliver Pumping Station being built on the West side. On \Ved., Oct. 10 at midnight, CURTIN, DXS FOLEY. TEX WEGEMAN and I left in a Model T Ford for the Army game. We arrived in New York early Sat. morning after riding in a 

hca^-y fog from Syracuse to Albany-. The game 
was played in Brooklyn due to the fact that the 
World Scries was going on at the Polo Grounds. 
None of us had tickets to the game and I split 
up from the others in tr\'ing to find someone with 
a spare to sell. The other three went in with 
the team leaving mc out in the cold. I managed 
to get word in to them and FR/\NK WALLACE 
came out with a pass signed by JOE BYRNE, 
JR., and I saw the game sitting near the Notre 
Dame bench. Score: N.D. 13; Army 0. 
"On Monday I got to sec the Yankees win the 
World Scries from the Giants. Saw a lot of good 
shows that week In New York and on Saturday 
we drove to Princeton where Notre Dame won 25 
to 2. On our return to South Bend we had rain 
every day and plenty of tire trouble. 
"Enjoyed reading GEORGE HALLER's reminis­
cing in a recent issue. There was a lot of color 
and charm for the pre-war students that cannot be 
felt now that the enrollment is so large. I re­
member Mcmonade & 6s* at Brother 'Lecps' 
(Leopold), Rockefeller Hall, walks to the Pie House 
on the Xilcs Rd. Hikes along the forbidden 3-1 
tracks, along the St. Joe River below St. Mary's to 
Niles and Mishawaka. 
"The last couple of years at Notre Dame, I u-as a day dodger and worked all over South Bend. Sold clothing at Gatcly's, collected bills for Whee­]ock*5, sold tickets at the Winter Garden dance hall (Tokyo was ofT limits), worked evenings at the Oliver Hotel Cafeteria, did drafting for the Indiana Bell Telephone Co., worked in the base­ment stockroom of the Metropolitan 5c-30c store. During the suzntncr nui one of the gamcj at Spring-brook Park with a few other students. 
"My old diar>* brought out one interesting fact in recalling basketball scores. Jan. 5, 1924, N.D. 19, Michigan 15, with 2 extra periods. On Jan. 19, Franklin 19, N.D. 12 — 1 noted 'N.D. couldn't iind the basket.' 
"Trust this doesn't bore you too much." 
No, Ed, letters like yours are alwa>'s welcomed by editors and readers alike. Any of you who would like to give a classmate some vicarious pleasure, please just pick up your pen and begin. 
A resolution by the County Board of Super­visors of Crawford County, Illinois, has recognized the outstanding contributions and accomplishments of WILLIAM E. BRADBURY, '16, and J. STAN­LEY BRADBURY, '23, in behalf of the people. Their gifts have included clocks, flags, new fur­niture and shrubbery for their courthouse. Bill has been active in his 5er\'icc to the veterans of wars and Stan has recently been honored by being elected president of the Illinois State's At­torney Assn. Stan had to resign from his duties as president of the Big Brothers and Sisters Assn. of Illinois for his new responsibilities. 
A U.S. patent has been issued to the Johns-Man­ville Corp. in the name of ROBERT G. QUINN, chief of paper and millboard research at the J-M Research Center at Manville. A holder of more than a dozen patents on insulating board and asbestos paper. Bob has two paper products bear­ing his name, quinterra and quinorgo. A resident of Middlebrook Rd., Bound Brook. N.J., he is a member of the Technical Assn. of Pulp and Paper Industry, the .American Institute of Chemical En­gineers, and the Structural Panel Council of the Society of Plastics Industrv'. 
.\ final note from a postcard received from FRANK WALL/\CE. Of course, he plans to attend the Reunion. 
1925 
John P. Hurley 2085 Brookdale Road Toledo 6, Ohio 
It's been a long time between drinks, drinks of news, that is. The letters I have received from the class have been few and far between. Fortunate­ly, JOHN LAUGHLIN, our managing editor of the ALUMNUS is on the ball and gleaned informa­tion that was sent to JIM Si\NFORD by GEORGE VERGARA, who is at the present time a council­man for the city of New Rochelle. George was the former mayor of New Rochelle, New York and this, I am sure, has been an extra currlcular activity for George. The following is a note sent to JIM SANFORD, that famous Class Secretar>­of the Class of *15. *'Dear Jim: 
'^Hurriedly, I should like to tell you that the piece you t%Tote on 'Father Matt' is moving and a fine tribute to htm. He was president when I first started at Notre Dame in '21. I particular-
JAMES D. McQUAID, '31, of Vinccnnes, Ind., has heen appointed to the board of directors of the Indiana Chapter of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, as well as county educational representative. 
ly liked what you said about the men of our school, 'They carry over with them through time and eternity the indelible mark and unique spirit that distinguishes the Notre Dame man.' It is better said here than anywhere I have seen or heard it, 
*'My class b '25. Late the other night after read­ing the ALUMNUS, I was engulfed in a nos­talgic sadness and a sort of homesickness for the campus which, oddly enough, I have never experienced until now. 
"An>^vay, I do hope Father Walsh is not suf­fering and if he has gone on, I only wish I could be as sure of the next world as he would right­fully be, 
"All the best to you and yours. 
Sincerely, 
George Vcrgara" 

The death of FRi\NK MEKUS of Fremont, Ohio, came as a tragic shock to your secretary* and, 
MATTHEW H. ROTHERT, '24 (right), president and hoard chairman of Camden (Ark.) Furniture Co., is chairman of the President's Assay Commission for the U.S. Treasury Dept. Named recently to the 14­memher board by President Kennedy, the industrialbt-numismatist holds a position to which his father (left), the late Hugo C. Rotheit, '87, was appointed in 1915. Matt had already won immortality hy suggesting the present use of the motto "In God We Trust" on U.S. paper currency. 
I am sure, to his tricnds ta the Classes of '23 and '26. Fran died of a heart attack while at­tending a meeting in Toledo on November Hth. In addition to Fran's widow, Lillian, Fran's mother sur\'ives, a resident of Defiance, Ohio. He also left two brothers and three sisters. CARL MEKUS, also a Notre Dame alumnus and of the Class of '25, survives him. Of the many news items that appeared in the Fremont papers and in the Toledo papers, the editorial "A Shock to All" pretty well describes Fran's Hfe in his community. Following is the editorial: 
"Death of few men in the Fremont community ^vould have come as more of a shock to every­one than did that of Francis A. Mekus. 
"The bank president, Iuio\%'n in financial circles in this state and throughout the Middle West, was starting to discuss his favorite subject, banking, when he was fatally stricken at a Taledo meeting. 
^'Although a resident of Fremont for less than 10 years he had a hand in many major develop­ments in the banking business here. Soon after he came, the Croghan and Colonial institutions were merged; then came two branch banks which his bank opened here; then came addition of the Green Springs bank to the Croghan Colonial or­ganization. Many other changes in the physical setup of the home bank came ^>out through his direction. 
**Fran Mekus was a progressive banker; he did not believe in standing still. He was not made that way. And banking in this community has benefited from the fact that Mr. Mekus devoted even a few years of his life and his talents to Fremont and Sandusky County." 
From my own experience, Fran was a fellow upon whom you could always depend to help you when you needed something in a hurry and when you needed financial aid, such as the PAT Ale-CARTHY fund. He and TED BENTZ headed it up in the Fremont area and did a fine Job of it. Pat left his widow and a wonderful family and through the efforts of the Central Catholic Alumni and the Notre Dame Alumni, they were able to get eight thousand dollars for them through the game played between Benedictine of Cleveland and Central Catholic High of Toledo. Incidentally, Central Catholic came up as the number one team in the State of Ohio and TOM McHUGH, that great coach of Catholic Central was named the number one coach of the State of Ohio. He certainly deserves this. 
To Lillian Mekus: 
You can be sure that the Class of *25 will re­member Fran in their prayers and a High Mass has already been said for Fran from the Class of '25 fund. There is also a Mass said for all the alumni which is taken care of by the Alumni Association. These Masses arc said on the campus of Notre Dame, which Fran so dearly loved. 
A postal card from BOB DIXON reads as follows: 
"I read in the last issue of the ALUMNUS of your attempt to contact me in Illinois. I retired from F. D. I. C. about a year ago after one heart attack, a sh'ght stroke and a ner^'ous break­down. I decided to move south. Mrs. Dixon, one of my two sons and myself moved out here in Tucson about a month ago, bought a home and are all settled now. I either sec or talk to RAUL DUFONT every few days. My present address is 5711 E. 2ND Street, Tucson, Arizona." 
After writing the above information about Jim Sanford the secretary of the class of '15, re­garding the letter sent to him by George Vcrgara and upon returning to Toledo, I got my ALUMNUS and was shocked to hear of Jim's death. Any of you fellows who have been coming back to the reunions certainly met that famous class secretary* of 1915. He was well-known on the Notre Dame campus and I am sure you will all remember him in your prayers. In the name of the class of '25, I would like to extend our sym­pathy to Jim's wife and family. 
From the Alumni OfEce: Two neu'spapcr clippings sent to our office this time concerning '25crs. One, "Honored Coach with an Honor Guard,** pictures the Four Horsemen flanking former football coach John (Chick) Mechan of Syracuse and Manhattan at the New York Touchdown Club's annual banquet. (Meehan W3S honored as the indi^'idual doing the most good for the sport over a period of yezirs.) Our own Four Horsemen were honored as a group giv­ing the most aid and encouragement to football. The other picture was of JAMES "SLEEPY" CROWLEY, chairman of the Pennsylvania Sute Athletic Commission, with Gov. William W. Scran­ton inspecting the headpiece worn by Francesco Velasquez, the amateur boxer who was killed in a bout at Carbondale, Pa. A little "tete-a-tete" between HARRY A. Mc-
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 49 
GUIRE and JIM ARMSTRONG gives us due 
to Harry's life in California. (And what a life!) 
"As I have just been writing George Shustcr, 
I hope that one of you wiM come by here some 
time and tell me what the new Xotre Dame is 
like. There seem to be almost no Notre Darners 
li\-ing around here, and from the literature you 
people send to us the school of today must be 
\-ery difTerent from the one you and I knew 40 
years ago. 
"Santa Barbara is a tiny self-sufScieat island in 
a iops>'-turvy world, and most of us like it so 
much that wc hardly ever venture out into the 
cold, cruel winds of our upset civ'ilization. 
"But it is a grand place for the life of leisure. 
We have a growing branch of the Univ. of Calif., 
and many of the faculty and officials are pals of 

mine. And it is so quiet. Wonderful for reading, 
i.c., completing one's education. Then there are 
so many good causes one can work for. For some 

years I helped build up the Republican party in 
this county; and put in many more years help­


ing to establish tlie Music Academy of the West." 
If Harry is trying to make the rest of us en­

\-ious, he can probably consider himself a grand 
success. 
Your Alumni Secretary-. JIM ARMSTRONG had 

a busy three weeks in January'. He addressed five 
district meetings of the American Alumni Council. 
His pit stops included Albuquerque, N.M.; Palm 
Springs, Calif.; New Haven, Conn.; Atlanta, Ga.; 
and Pocono Afanor, Pa., Inn. Jim conferred with 
alumni groups in Albuquerque, Los Angeles and 
Atlanta. 
1926 
Frank A. Dcitlc 
1763 Kcsslcr Blvd. 
South Bend 16, Ind. 
This being our off year, wc won't take too much 

space from the Reunion groups. 
In January a group from Cleveland was at 

Notre Dame for Father Walsh's funeral. Had a 
chat with DENNIS O'NEILL and son Mike after 
the service at the Church. 
I have had lunch sex'eral times %vith RUDY 

GOEPFRICH, between his trips from coast to 
coast for The Bcndix Corporation. 
A fe^v weeks ago I called at the Auto Specialties 

Co. in St. .To^cph, Michigan, for a chat with 
LARRY KRIEGER. Larry "^looked well and pros­
perous. 
I often sec GEORGE PARAGE, South Bend At­tomey and former City Judge. Two more of our Class have been cut from the ranks. ART KLISE died in February and GEORGE MURRIN in March of this year. 
Art Kltse w*as one of a group of us that had our e\'ening meal at Mrs. Da\'ies' on Corby Blvd. Many of the world's problems were solved at that table after those good meals 37 years ago. 
From the Alumni Office: JOHN Q. ADAMS of Jfontclair, N.J., has been named the 1963 winner of the Christian Culture Gold Medal by Assumption Unii'crsJty, IVindsor, Ontario. John, president of the Manhattan Refrig­erating Co. of N.Y. and of the Union Cold Storage Co. of Jersey City, is being cited as a ''Christian humanist and businessman who has demonstrated that professional and managerial excellence can implemrnt the demands of that social responsibility so lauded by Pope John XXIII (*Matcr ct Ma­gistra')." Married and the father of two children, he became the first recipient of the Quadragesimo Anno Award given by the Association of Catholic Trade Unionists in New York (1948). He is a director of the National Catholic Social Action Conference and helped found the National Catholic Employers and Managers Study Group, the Catho­lic Institute of the Food Industry, and the Serra movement in North Jersey. He is also chairman of the public rrlntions committee of the Essex region of the Arclidioccsan Council of Catholic Men. 
1927 
Clarence J. Ruddy 32 S. River Street Aurora, lUinois 
You have all heard of the death of FATHER MATTHEW WALSH. Although, strictly speaking, he was not a member of our Class, he was never­theless a part of it. He was President of the 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July, 1963 
SALINA—Candid photographer Al Schwartz snapped these groups on UND Night, April 25 (clockn-zse from upper left): President and Mrs. John Browne flank guests John Laughlin of the ALUMNUS and Fr. Wehber, diocesan superintendent of schools; Albert 
J. McLean, '31, and fans; Mrs. Schwartz referees between Coach and Mrs. Mark Flynn of St. Mary's High; Secretary Norb Skelly, '25 (lower left), and guests. 
University during our whole student life. During those da>*s he was as much a part of Notre Dame as the Main Building. We did not know him intimately, of course, but wc did know he was tlierc, and we accepted that as a comforting fact, as We accepted the fact of our parents. From what contacts we had, we knew that he w*as firm but kind, practical but with dreams for the future. The University was beginning to grow in those da>'s, and he u'as keeping pace with it. A trio of residence halls — Hou-ard, Lyons and Morrissey 
— were going up, and we could all see that Notre Dame was on its way to meet a new age. 
In order to accommodate the hundreds of young men who already were impatiently pressing for admission, and without waiting for the permanent halls to be built. Father IValsh's administration also built Freshman and Sophomore Halls. These, you will recall, were long frame structures. They looked like barracks and A%-e called them that. They have long since been torn down and replaced by handsome brick buildings forming a new quadrangle, but they fulfilled their purpose in their day — and our day. If it hadn't been for Freshman and Sophomore Halls, many of us would have had to look elsewhere for an education. 

The buildings, temporary and permanent, typify the imagination, the foresight and the determina­tion of Father Walsh and his administration. But these buildings were not an end in themselves. They were built for the purpose of educating men. As much as anyone, wc were the beneficiaries of Father Walsh's drive. Our Class was one of the very few who had no other President. He w:xs identified with us, and we were identified whh him. It probably is immodest to say so, but I do not believe he had any cause to regret the identification. Our Class has produced leaders in business, industry', engineering, politics and the professions. Some of the success undoubtedly must be attributed to the qualities of Father Walsh. 
My reference to D.\N CUNNINGHAM in the last issue of the Alumnus brought forth a long and news>- letter from him. It deserx-es quoting in full, and I do so: 
"I was both startled and pleased to find you had been thinking of me as you walked around the campus. Considering that I live in New York, I have been back on the campus myself fairly often during the last few years. 
"Like yoti, I find the campus has changed physically but the school itself hasn't. I am fairly active in the Notre Dame Club of New York and so I know a lot of the recent grad­uates here in this area. It is evident the breed hasn't changed and the school is in good hands. 
"I have seen ED RYAN, JERRY LcSTRANGE and BILL CORBEIT in Chicago recently. Ed's daughter was married last spring and he and Muriel (St. Mary's Class '27) are now rattling around the apartment by themselves. Ed is with Sears Roebuck. My old roommate, Jerry, hasn't changed a bit. He now heads up his own advertising space sales organization. BILL COR­BETT is in the bond business and has a lot of time off for Nax-al Reser\"e duties. Bill is a Captain with enough gold on his tmifonn to dazzle one! 
"Among the 1927crs in the New York area: CHUCK BERETZ is in the automobile business in White Plains; ED BERKERY is a Judge in the Hamptons on Long Island; JACK GRUNING is practicing law in Brooklyn and JOHNNY NYI­KOS is xvith the Chevrolet Division of General Motors. Unfortunately I haven't seen any of them very recently. 
"As for m>-self, I am with Szabo Food Service, Inc., whose headquarters arc in Lyons, Illinois. The largest part of our business consists of run­ning cafeterias and dining rooms in industrial plants, hospitals, schools and other such facilities. We also operate ten or fifteen restaurants which arc open to the general public My getting back into the food business resulted from a merger of the holding company %«-ith which I had been affiliated for about .5 or 6 years and Szabo Food Serx-ice, Inc. During these recent years I have been out of the country almost as much as I have been in it. I have been going to Europe about once a year for about a month at a time and down to the West Indies, Jamaica to be exact, about a half a dozen times a year. However, as of May 1, I shall be spending all my time in the United States with Szabo's food business. Perhaps I shall miss the foreign travel after a year or so, but right now I am most happy at the prospect of being home more. Both of my daughters are married and I have a grand­daughter. 
"I have one suggestion to make. I think it was at our 20th reunion we were given a card listing the names of our clatsmales who had died. This card fits very nicely in a missal. While I dread thinking how long the list would now be, I think it would be wonderful if we could bring that card up to date so we could keep a constant reminder to pray for them while at mass. 
"One other thing, perhaps wc could arrange some sort of get-together after the home games during the football season. Any time I have run into a classmate when I have been at a game it has been pure luck and it would be nice if we could sec each other again once in a while. 
"After the first of May I shall he traveling in New England and south to Washington D.C. and if I am fortunate enough to Dick up any news about the Class of 1927 I shall pass it along to you." 

Dan's present address is 334 Bums Street, Forest Hills 75, New York. His idea of listing the names of classmates who have died is a good one. I will sec what can be done about it. 
I would be delighted to receive letters from other classmates tno. 
HERBERT J. BRAUN, an Engineer who not only is a classmate but until now has always lived in my home touTi of Aurora, has moved. He is now with Hewitt-Robins and lives at 999 Bcecher Street, San Leandro, California. I know he would like to hear from his classmates in the area. Herb gave me this information on New Year's Eve, but it was early on New Year's Eve so 1 am sure I have put it down correctly. 
From the Alumni Office: 
"WALTER *RED* SMITH is a man who be­
lieves that it is possible to write about sports with­
out committing mayhem on the English language. 
And millions of readers, even sports enthusiasts, 
seem to agree with him." So begins the tribute 
paid to "Red" in The Register^ a Denver paper. 
It tells of "Red's" rise from copy desk work with 
the Milwaukee Sentinel to the New York 
Herald Tribune where his column, "Views of 
Sport," is syndicated in about 100 papers, reach­
ing from four to five milUon readers. His columns 
arc considered so literate and articulate they have 
been used as textual standards in journalism and 
English courses at Columbia University. "Red", has 
republished hts columns in t%vo books, Out of the 
Red and Views of Sport. 
Thirty-Rfth Anniversary Reunion June 14-15-16 

1928 
Louis F. Buckley €8-10 108th Street Porcst Hills 75, N.Y. 
If you arc not one of the 160 classmates who have advised me or BERNIE GARBER that they will return to Notre Dame on June 14, 15 and 16, 1963, for our Thirty-Fifth Reunion, please drop 
•me a note at once to 68-10 108th Street, Forest Hills, 75, N.Y. 
You have received since I wrote to you in Jan­uary, the Valentine mailing from BILL D\VYER and the "Dear Fellow Breather" letter from JACK WINGERTER. I want to thank our classmate JOHN WOULFE and his son, John Jr., '56, of Clyde Printing Co., for doing the printing gratis for the Valentine mailing. JOE LASGTON writes from 406 W. Madison St., Ottawa, III., that he is still rccei\*ing contributions from classmates to belp defray the expenses of getting mailings to you regarding the Reunion. 
Our President, JIM ALLAN, is working closely 
•with ED QULNN and FATHER ANDY MUL-HExVNY, on local arrant>ements for the Reunion. SEYAIOUR WEISBERGER and CVP SPORL are making plans for a luncheon meeting, Saturday for the *28 and '29 LL.B. men. HOAME PHALIN, AL SCHNURR, AL DAVIS and GEORGE SCHEUER, are making arrangements for similar get-togethers for the Commerce men, architects, engineers and Journnlists respectively. RAY MUL­LIGAN and FRxVNK CRE*\DON are in contact with the Glee Club men regarding the Masses. VINCE aVRNEY has ordered identifying '28 clothing items. We expect to show a film of our '25 year Reunion. It will be a week end, ^^*hIch you will not want to miss. 
Deaths The first name to be added to the "In Memori­am" card sent to vou in January* is that of JOHN PAUL BERSCHIED, LLB '29, who died on Februar>' 4, 1963, in Fairfield, Alabama, where he had been employed in the accounting department at the Fairfield Ten Mill Works. John was sur\-ived by his wife. Their only cliild, a son 22 years of age, was killed in an automobile accident on June 19, 1962. John wToic to me a year ago after \Tsit­
ing DR. DICK WEHS in Birmingham just before Dick's death. Arrangements were made by the class for a Mass to be offered for John by FATHER MULRExVNY. Our sympathy is extended to FATHER ANDY MULREANY, C.S.C. on the death of his sister, to BILL KONOP on the death of his mother, to GEORGE LEPPIG and JERRY DE CLERCQ on the death of their fathers and to ORVILLE MURCH on the death of his son who was graduated from Notre Dame in 1961, FATHER FRANCIS X. QUINN, C.S.C. offered a Mass for the deceased members of our Class. FATHER QUINN is a chaplain at St. Joseph Novitiate in Valatle, N. Y. Thank you, FATHER QUINN for your thought fulness In offering this Mass. I am sure all of you read *vlth regret about the death of FATHER MATTHEW WALSH, 
C.S.C. I shall always remember hU excellent talk at our 25th Year Reunion. 
G«-Togethcrs of *28 Men FRANK DONOVAN, GEORGE LEPPIG and ART DENCHFIELD got together in January in 
MOHAAVK VALLEY—Principals for UND Night in the Utica, N.Y., area included Man-of-the-Year Kenneth F. Murphy, President L. Daniel Callan, Foundation Director Fr. John E. Walsh, and Chairman Mike McGuirl. 
Miami, Flonda. Art is In the real estate business in Coral Gables. George is head of the uniformed police and firemen In the unincorporated area of Dade County, Florida. Frank is President of Kay-don Engineering Corp. in Muskegon, Michigan. 
BERNIE GARBER and I got together with GEORGE CRONGEYER before he left tor a trip to Spain. On his return, George and I attended the taping of the t.v. program "Alumni Fun" at which a team of Notre Dame grads met Loyola University of Los Angeles. I spent an evening re­cently with JUDGE BILL JONES and his family in Che\-y Chase, Maryland. BIIPs wife, Alice, is recovering from a serious operation. Bill's daughter, Barbara, is on the staff in the office of Senator Mike Mansfield. 
BILL DOWDALL saw JUDGE .MERVIN AG­GELER and DOCTOR JOHN GOCKE In Los Angeles, Calif. 
Please drop a note to your Class Secretary when­ever you get together with a *28 man. 
Miscellaneous News Items JOE BREIG's ninth book whicli is entitled. The Mj*steries of Marriage was published recently and has received excellent reviews. I was pleased to read of HOWIE PHALIN'S gen­erous donation for the mural of the new library. Howie, who is executive vice-president and director of sales of the Field Enterprises Educational Cor­poration, recently returned from a trip to South America with his wife. I was also very pleased to see on page 229 in the April 1963 Issue of Fortune a picture of Howie. Howie is referred to as "one of the outstanding leaders in the field of selling through scr\*ice." The President of Field Enterprises Educational Corp. comments, "His personal dedication to the cause of educational improvement is reflected in the dally activities of a force of more than 50,000 men and women which he directs." BILL ARMIN is attached to procurement and contracting at the George C. Marshall Flight Cen­ter, Huntsvillc, Alabama. PAUL BIU\DY is with the law firm of Endrcss & Endress in Cleveland, Ohio. CH/\RLEY MURPHY is a statistical analyst with the North American AWatlon Inc., Space & Information Division In Downey, California. Charley was Los Angeles Chairman for the N.D. Challenge program. JOE McNAMAR:^ is vice-president. Na­tional Distillers and Chemical Corporation In New York City. NEIL /VMIOT operates the Amiot Cleaners Inc., in W>-andotte, Mich. BOB B.-VNNON Is associate professor In metallurgx- at the Newark College of Engineering. HENRY BAUM is Court Clerk in the Municipal Court of Los Angeles. FRANK DAVID Is a district utilities engineer with the Louisiana Department of Highways. JACOB GILBERT is vice-president of the Gilbert Shoe Co. in Columbus, Ohio. GLEN HATCH is executive «ce-president. Keystone Portland Cement Co., in Philadelphia. JOHN SEITER and his wife estab­lished a scholarship at Notre Dame for ^ a boy graduating from the Lexington, Missouri, high school where John teaches. MIKE McGEO-GHEGAN Is Deputy Commissioner of the Public Debt, with the U. S. Treasury Department in 
Washington, D. C. JOE S. SULLIVAN is an at­torney with the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butchers Workmen of North America In Chicago. BOLAN BURKE is an agent for the Pacific of New York Group in New Orleans, La. Mrs. Jack Lavelle and Jack's daughter were present at the awarding of the JACK LAVELLE Memorial Trophy by the Catholic Youth Organization re­cently. 
The New Subiaco Abbey and the Subiaco Alumni Association announced the solemn dedication of The Coury House, a retreat guest house dedicated to the Holy Family, April 28, In Subiaco, Arkansas. A Subiaco Alumni Reunion banquet followed honor­ing GEORGE COURY of Miami, Florida. I am pleased to hear of this generous gift by our class­mate, George Coury, to his old high school. 
FRANK DONOVAN and his wife, Louise. spent the Easter season in New York and got together with the BUCKLEYS. We talked by phone to JOE BRANNON in Phoenix, Arizona; JOE DORAN in Wheaton, IlL; JUDGE BILL JONES in Washington, D. C. They all agreed to join us at the Reunion In June. We tried un­successfully to reach JIM ALLAN. DENNY DALY, BILL KIRWAN. VINCE CARNEY and JACK WINGERTER. 
Annual '28 Class Cocktail Paitf When ordering tickets for football games in June, remember that our annual '28 Class cocktail party will be held on October 12. 1963, following the Southern California game^at Notre Dame in the basement of O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
From the Alumni Office: Prolific LOU BUCKLEY has two more articles In our office .for this Issue: One is a study of "Nonwhitc Employment in the United States" ("In­terracial ReWew," Feb.); the other, a speech de­livered befors the Women's Career Conference, Marygrove College, Detroit, on "College Women Workers In the SUtles." A card from the board of directors of the Key­stone Portland Cement Co. (Philadelphia) an­nounces the election of GLENN M. HATCH to the office of executive ^^ce-presldent. Another assignment for road-builder JAMES W. SHOCKNESSY in Cleveland. He has been chosen by Governor Rhodes of Ohio to uncork the bottle­necks in Route 71. To quote the Cleveland "Plain Dealer": "Well, the Ohio Turnpike really got off the ground In 1952. It's been a colossal success. We credit the principal accomplishment In getting the road built, on schedule in three years, at an economical price and without a hint of scandal, to the Turnpike Commission's only chairman, James W, Shocknessy. He was a true bulldozer In getting the Job done, and he has continued to do a masterful service in having the system inainialncd as the finest in the country. . . . ". . . Shocknessy has the know-how and prestige to set the dirt flying, and his acceptance of the assignment is wonderful news." 
Good luck, Jim! 
1929 
Larry Staudcr Engineering Bldg. Notre Damej Indiana 
Plan to attend the October 12 Southern Cah'­fomia game at Notre Dame and to join in the after-the-game Class of '29 get-together in the Engineering Building. 
JACK DONAHUE, BSEE *29, friend of many of us died suddenly of a heart attack December 22 In Milwaukee. While Jack had doctored for diabetes for the last ten years he had been in apparent excellent physical condition. He was with the Bureau of Reclamation reporting to the Denver office. 
Jack was preceded In death by his sister Florence and his mother, both of whom died, in 1932. His wife Elizabeth resides at 8236 West Center Street, Milwaukee, \Viscon5in. They were married De­cember 26, 1939. 
Jack was the genial Chairman of the student branch of A.I.E.E. while a senior at Notre Dame. He ser\ed DR. J. A. CAPARO, PROFESSOR C. 
P. HAFEL, (who has a son in electrical engineering at Notre Dame), PROFESSOR J. A. NORTH­COTT, and REV. THOMAS STEINER, C.S.C. and his classmates well in departmental and campus activities. Your secretary spent many pleas­ant hours with him in the classroom. Professor Sharma's laboratories and In the residence halls. Jack ^\'as a man whom Notre Dame is proud to 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 51 
TERRE HAUTE—Early season events drawing terrific crowds included (left) a breakfast on UDivcisal Notre Dame Ck>mmunion Sunday, and the first annual Valentine Dance, held in the Wabash Room of the Terrc Haute House Hotel in April. 
claim as hers. His classmates will remember him in thrir pravcrs along with recently deceased REV. MATTHEW WALSH, C.S.C. and REV. GEORGE 
J. WTLSH, C.S.C. '29. 
BERNARD LOSHBOUGH, '29 Bachelor of 

.Architecture, has been selected (or two national 
honors by llie editors of House and Home. Bernie 
is cxccmive director of Action-Housing Inc., Pitts­
burgh's fivc-year-old dvic group dedicated to better 
housing, guided development of a pace-setter sub­
division, East Hills, which offers the best row hous­
ing in its middle-income price bracket in the U.S. 
Builders elsewhere could profit from East Hill's 
cost S3\ing. 
Prior to joining the Housing Center, Bcmie 

spent four years in India, three as Deputy Repre­
sentative of The Ford Foundation, and one with 
the Department of State. Mr. Loshbough has also 
served as Director, Housing and Community 
Facilities Di\'ision, Executive OfBce of the Presi­
dent, National Sccurit>' Resources Board, Wash­
ington, D. C. Previously, he •was Administrator of 
the State housing program in Connecticut. 
Bernie is a Visiting Lecturer on Urban Renewal 

and Redevelopment at the Graduate School of 
Public and International Affairs, University- of 
Pituburgh. He is an honorar%- member of the 
Greater Pittsburgh Board of Realtors; a member 
of the Board of Rcvifi*', Neiv Hax'cn (Connecticut) 
Community Renewal Program; a member of the 
National .Association of Housing and Redevelop­
ment Officials; and a member of the Foreign 
Polic>' Association of Pittsburgh. 
JOHN GILTINON, Chicago atloracy-al-law, 

was a recent campus \'isitor of Fathers CHARLES 
DOREMUS, C.S.C., PETER HEBERT, C.S.C, 
and HENRY GLUECKERT» CS.C. John's recent 
trip to Europe and the many changes and addi­
tions on the campus were topics of coni*crsation. 
JOHN CUSHMAN and REV. JOSEPH BARRY 

were among the overflow crowd at the 32nd annual 
Rockne Communion Breakfast. Father Barry gave 
the shortest speech ever to those who stood in 
honor of their Chaplain. "Gentlemen you have en­
joyed your stretch please be seated and wc will 
proceed with the program.** Wc saw a 25-minutc 
biographical mo^ie of Rockne. The same film has 
been shown on ABC in the Biography of Famous 
People series. If you need a film for a meeting this 
might be exactly what you are looking for. Call 
your ABC station. VINCE DOYLE of the Elkhart, 
Indiana ABC station made the local arrangements. 
Recent campus \isitors include BOB VOGEL­WEDE of Detroit who has followed JOHNNY JORDAN'S basketball team and is almost equally interested in JAKE KLINE'S and HUGHIE DE­VORE'S teams as well. 
From tlie Alumni Office: Received a response from HENRY B. OLBRICHT when his mail from our oflice was incorrectly ad­dressed (perhaps We should err more often): "I've owned a farm here in Columbia County, N.Y», since 1&48, when the New York Cit>* daily race caught up with me." We're hoping Hcnr>' is talk­ing about business and not horses. His home is now in Ancramdale, N.Y. Hank Jr., '56, is with Ford ^fotor Co., San Jose, California. 
General Acceptance Corp. (.\Ilentown, Pa.) has chosen KENNETH I. HECK assistant Wcc-president and vice-president of G.A.C. Commercial Corp., its major commercial financing subsidiary'. Currently South Bend residents. Ken and his wife plan to move to AUcntou-n soon. They have three grown children. 
Pan-.^merican-Grace Airwa>-s chief pilot FRANK 

J. HAVELICK has completed 25 years of service with the airline. Frank majored in philosophy and 
52 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July, 1963 
foreign commerce at N.D. Since 1937, he has flown everj* t>-pe of aircraft from the Douglas DC-2 through the DC-8 jets whicli the company operates today, and has accumulated 18,(X)0 hours flWng time. Captain Havelick lives iWth his wife Erin and two daughters, Erin and Lauren, in Miami Shores, Fla. 
CARL EIBERGER, '52, wrote, "In this area we are particularly proud of Colorado's Chief Supreme Court Justice, ALBERT FRANTZ." A member of the court since 1957, he took the oath of office as Chief Justice on January 8, 1963. .Al and his w-ifc reside at 949 S. Josephine St., Den­ver. They have three gro%\-n children. Carl added (humorously?): "He has a grown son who is also a lawyer and who regularly beats the under­signed in labor arbitration cases.*' 
Finally, a letter from BROTHER NEIL GILDEA, C.S.C, *25, concerning the "No details" wTitten after the obituar>' notice on WALTER V. GILDEA. *'For 31 years he was proprietor and owner of The Gildca Refrigeration Service Co,, Fort Wayne, Ind., till his death April 3, 1961. He belonged to many benevolent associations, including the Fourth Degree K. of C. and St. Vincent DePaul Society*. His sur\*ivors include his wife Gene\'ieve, 3 daugh­ters .. . a son . . . and seven grandchildren. He is also surxivcd by three brothers and two sisters." 
1930 

Devere Plunkett O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office: FR.ANCIS M. MESSICK has been named man­ager of the Detroit-Gratiot office of Associates In­vestment Co. Frank's club affih'ations have included past president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley, St. Joseph Valley Sales and Ad­vertising Executives Club, South Bend Knife and 
JUNKETING JIM Armstrong, '25 (left), president of the American Alumni Council, officiated at the Council's District IX Conference at La Quinta, Calif., with AAC Executive Director Jack Johnson 
(seated) and Conference Director Jack Cummings of the University of Redlands. 
Fork Club, St. Joseph Valley Chapter of the Nat'l. Assn. of Credit Men, and Council Oaks Chapter of the Reserve Officers Assn. ^Vhen does be find time for work? 
JOHN A. HURLEY, operations manager of the New Jersey Highway Authority, will serve as re­gional youth consultant in a newly established office of the U.S. Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Standards located in New York City. John's extensive Labor Department experience should assist him in tackling the problem of the 26}4 million young people who wUl enter the labor market this decade. John specifically plans a vigorous program for the V/z million youths who will not even finish high school. 
1931 
James T. Doyle 805 W. Arcadia Ave. Arcadia, California 

My apologies to the wonderful men of 1931 be­cause of the dearth of news recently in the ALUMNUS. When the last issue was delivered I was given the royal treatment by TOM ASHE as to why I had nothing for our column. I protested that I had sent material 'to John Laughlin, but upon checking my files I find I had to take the blame. I have seen Tom several times now that wc are practically neighbors. He has opened the Tom Ashe Travel Service in Los Angeles and is prepared to handle your traveling to the west coast or around the world trips. AL STEP.AN was in town last November with JERRY CROWLEY for a convention. We had a long telephone con­versation and AI brought me up-to-date on some of my Chicago friends. GIL SE-^M.^N enjoyed the Chicago Club Sports Dinner with CARL CRONIN, BERT METZGER and VINCE BUSCH. GU has been convalescing from a recurrence of a heart condition and is now at home. By the time this is published I am sure he will be up and around again. 
Thanks to BUD TOUHY for his letter. Bud had seen LOUIS GODOY jn Nc^v• York who is now in the insurance business. Louis has a son who is a freshman at Notre Dame. JOHNNY BURNS was mentioned, but he disappeared early. John, how about a bit of news from Brooklyn for the next ALUMNUS? ED FLYNN, who is now back in the states, lives close to Bud and has two lovely daughters. Ed I understand still has all of his h^r and no gray ones to date. Bud also heard from HASKELL ASKEW% BOB PFADERGAST, JOE DEEB and BEN OAKES. BRIAN TOUHY was graduated in June 1961 and his other son, David, is in the present freshman class on campus. When­ever I get into downtown Los Angeles or to the airport I try to get the Chicago Tribune. I was richly reu-arded some time ago when I saw the picture of EUGENE COYLE, newly appointed dis­trict director of the Internal Revenue Ser\icc for the Northern Illinois District. Gene, as many of you may remember, has been in v-arious IRS offices throughout the country and is now back in his home town. I hope to see you on my next visit to Chicago, Gene. 
Another Chicagoan who was on the west coast tele­phoned recently. HAROLD STELZER, Chicago Sears Roebuck executive, was here for a feiv da^-s and prombcd to write me his cousin, CLIFF FISHER's, address. Tliis I received and I had a long telephone conversation with Cliff. He is now married and is engaged in the building business in the Lomita area. Harold also indicated that be had surgery at St. Anne's in Chicago and was taken care o( by our classmate. Dr. PAUL FOX. Cliff Fisher's address is 1828 W. 253rd St.. Lomiia, Calif. BILL TAYLOR has moved from Pittsburgh and is now in Flossmoor, Illinois. JOHN PULTE, freshman Howard Hallcr and formerly irom Grand Rapids is now living at 13737 Oxnard, Van Niiys, California. How well I remember JOE BOYLAX, JOE DEEB and John Pultc on the second floor of Howard. I think AL STEPAN and JOHN WEIB­LER can get in the act also. Another Ho«-ard Hallcr sent mc a long letter extending his best wishes to all classmates. HOWARD RANKER, who started out to be an electrical engineer, and later became an accountant is controller of the 
H. K. Ferguson Co., Cleveland, Ohio. Howard has been in Buenos Aires for about a year where his company has a general office. About this time he expects to be in Paris or London. He is a member of the Financial Executives Institute and is anxious to contact other Notre Dame members of that organization. His letter is very nostalgic, mentioning his roommate, JOB HUGHES, FRED SWINT, VAL MARTIN and VINCE EICHEN­LAUB. I saw Fred Swint about t%vo years ago and he has changed little from his college da^-s. Fr. PATRICK DUFFY, AB '31 is now at St. .\far>''s Hospital, Tucson, Arizona. GEORGE SPALDING, now Brother Ntartin John, C. F. X., has been transferred to Xavcrian College, 10000 New Hampshire Avenue, Silver Spring, Md. JIM RORKE is in the Base Civil Engr. Office, Clark Air Force, APO 74, San Francisco, Calif. JOE SAVOLDI has left South Bend and is now in Henderson, Ky^ 
TOM GOLDEN has been in the hospital at Fayettc\*ille, Ark., where he was wsited regularly by TO.M HOARN, who was a close friend of his in Morrissey Hall. Tom also reports seeing ART KANE regularly who is from Baxter Springs, Kansas. BOB SULLIVAN is a faithful corre­spondent and he mentioned having seen JIM BIG­GINS, ED .\L^DDEN and ED MURRAY on campus last fall. TOM MONAHAN's eldest son, Tim, was married in New Orleans this spring and among the guests were Ruth and CARL CRONIN. If Tim is going to live in New Orleans, he will find company in the sons of classmate FRANCIS HENNEBERGER, who are also married and living in Neu-Orleans. BILL BERNING, Austin, Texas, is certainly proud of the fine job BERT MALONEY is doing in Austin. I regularly receive clippings on Bert who appears to have changed a bit since I last saw him. Bert, formerly an In­ternational Harvester dealer is a director of City National Bank and vice-president of J. G. Tucker & Co. 
Sympathy of the class is extended to FRANK HOLLAND in the loss of hts brother, Eugene, and .Mrs. EDWARD L. FRANCK in the loss of her husband Ed. I received the notice from the Alumni Office just a few days ago on Ed Fninck and uill send a Mass and letter of condolence on be­half of the class of 1931 next week. 
It was a privilege to hear Fr. Hesburgh at Uni­versal Notre Dame Night in Los Angeles. Among our classmates attending were TOM ASHE, RAY CONNERS, ED SHEER^VN and a former Chica­goan I enjoyed visiting, BEN S.\LV,\TY, who lives nearby in Alhambra. AL STEPAN was recently elected to the Board of Directors of Thor Power Tool Company headed by our fellow Alumnus, NEIL C. HURLEY, JR. 
I should like to hear from many mentioned in my notes so tliat we may have a full and interest­ing 1931 column regularly. To those who helped out on this one, my sincere thanks. 
From the .Alumni OiHce; Alwavs interested in Notre Dame and her stu­dents, Mr. and Mrs. ALFRED C. STEPAN ar­ranged for Mrs. Indira Gandhi to visit Notre Dame. They had invited her to the U.S. after meeting her on a visit to India. After a dinner, Afarch 7, for Mrs. Gandhi, hosted by REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, CS.C , she spoke at Washington Hall on "India Faces the Chinese Challenge." BROTHER NILUS, C.S.C., a member of the staff of the St. Joseph Farm operated by the Brothers of Holy Cross, was elected to his fourth term as president of the St. Joseph County 4-H Fair, Inc. board of directors. There was quite a compliment paid to AM­BROSE M. STOEPLER in a Sunday issue of "The Washington (D.C.) Post." Ambrose is one of tv%-o **imagc smashers" in charge of collecting the tax money (probably about two million returns this year) all Virginians must hand over to the U.S. Gov't. The article says: "Flashing infectious grins and offering \^'arm handshakes . . . Steepler quick­ly demolishes this ('the big, bad tax collector') 
O'SHAUGHNESSY FAAULY, enjoying Roman N.D. hospitality in the Scogho di Frino, included (l.-r.): son Tim, a sophomore; Mrs. O'Shaughnessy, daughter of benefactor LA. O'Shaughnessy; Mike, formerly with the Glass of '62; and John J. O'Shaughnessy, '33. 
myth . . . Stoepler, tall, erect and far younger 
looking than his 43 years, has a soft-spoken, un­
hurried manner." No doubt that last sentence Js 
.Ambrose's favorite. 
Beginning his climb to the top in the troubled 
years of depression, he was a truck driver after 
graduation. .At the same time he was studying at 
St. John's and Toledo Universities. Now, out­
side the office, he likes to read and *"play at" 
golf and bridge. He is the father of four children. 
1932 
James K. Collins 2982 Torrington Rd. Shaker Heights, Ohio 
A recent conversation with BILL WALTZ dis­closed that, besides running the Canton half of his bank, he is busy keeping in touch wiih his children. One daughter is graduating from Ursuline College in Cleveland this year, one son is at John Carroll University, and another son is entering college this fall. 
Bill says he regulariy sees P.AUL BELDEN and PETE STREB for lunch. Pete, as well as leading the Diebold Corp. sales, has been active in setting up the Professional Football Hall of Fame in Canton. 
ED DeB.ARTOLO started another real estate de­velopment between Akron and Cleveland which is expected to have a total valuation of about sixty million dollars when completed. Ed has built and owns many shopping centers in this area, and owns the three horse racing tracks in Cleveland. 
A fine letter from TONY CONTI is repeated in part: 
"Where is Perrone? Perhaps, if an inquiry is started at this stage, someone may have some suc­cess in locating Johnny via the Missing Persons bureau. Call out the Internal Revenue.' Call out the Marines! Call out the Kennedy clan! 
"The future Class Reunions will Rnd feu- stal­warts, with time taking its heavy toll, so locate Johnny for what may be the final appearance for many of us. It would be satisfying to know that the next reunion will have been one of the best with that rapscallion present. Johnny an'd I were roommates in Sophomore Hall. 
"Hereabouts, AL CAPTER is still burning up the road with the local fire department as a Cap­tain. HERB WEHRLAN is teaching in Passaic High School and doing some real estate work. 
"Good luck to all the members of the Class, particularly in the search for Perrone." 
From the Alumni Office: Dr. WILLARD J. CROXALL has been appointed director of research and development at Ikliles Lab­oratories, Inc., Elkhart, Indiana. Wtllard is a mem­ber of the .American and Electro Chemical Societies. Chemists Club of New York and the Elcona Coun­try Club. He and his wife Martha reside at 1034 E. Jackson, Elkhart, with their three children, Wtllard, Jr., 24; Martha, 18; and Stephen, 13. He also has two married daughters, Mary Beth and Trudy. 
Thirtieth Annivenory 
Reunion June 14-15-16 

1933 
John A. Hoyt, Jr. Gillespie & O'Connor 342 Madison Ave. New York 17, N.Y. 
CIL\RLIE FARRIS, our Reunion Chairman, has been working diligently on the Reunion week end scheduled for June 14th-16th. Arrangements have been made for us to use Morrissey Hall — with the real old-timers drawing lots /or the first floor privileges. JIM ARMSTRONG, our genial .Alumni Secretary, will speak at our Class Dinner on Friday evening and a similar invitation has been extended to HUGH DEVORE, the new head coach. The theme of the Reunion will be "The Roaring 30s." We are looking forward to a good attendance. 
VIC SCHAEFFNER of Detroit died suddenly on December 7th after a short illness, and on the eve of the Christmas holiday's, FR.ANK McGEE called from Bridgeport to tell us that AUSTIN SULLI­VAN died in his home town in Hamden, Conn., following an operation. Atistin, as we well remem­ber, served as secretary of our Senior Class. Late in February the Alumni Office informed us that HOWARD FISCHER of Elmhurst, III., died earlier in the month. To each of their families we ex­tend our heartfelt sympathy. "In Paradisum De­ducant Te .Angeli" (May the .Angek lead thee Into Paradise). 
FATHER LLOYD TESKE, C.S.C., was recenUy appointed University Chaplain. Returning to ND after an absence of some eighteen years. Father now is in residence in Sorin Hall — editing the "Bul­letin" from Father O'Hara's old office. Being sta­tioned at Notre Dame, he is elderly looking forward to our 30th Reunion. 
ED D.AILEY, who practices law in Burlington, Iowa, with his brother John ('27) was recently elected to the Board of Directors of the lou'a Stzte 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June^July, 1963 53 
Bar Association. He also sen'cs as a member of the State Bar Foundation. Ed, %vith a family of eleven, is **family dean** oE our Class. 
From the Alumnr Office wc recently rcceii'cd the following change of addresses: DAXIEL J. ROLFS, formerly living in Frisco, is now living at 946 Veldez PL, Sunford, CaliL; JOHN H. BARBA­2ETTE has moved from Walnut Creek, CaliL, to 3025 Round HSl Dr. in Alamo CallL; and JOHN 
W. J.^EGER still in the Pittsburgh area, now resides at 20 Unges Drive, Pitts. 17, P x 
MIKE O'HARA was recently elected Justice of the Michigan Supreme Court. He now makes his home at Lansing — Stale Capitol is his address. We wish Mr, Justice O'Hara well. Election to tliis high office is a compliment to Mike, his family and to Notre Dame. 
FRANK McGEE, Tax Assessor of the City of Bridgeport, reports that Dick ^fcade has re­cuperated from his recent illness and is now back policv-tnaking in Advertising Row in New York, 
JOHN ^L^TOUSEK recently visited \vith JOHN PENOTE in Cleveland, John has been living in Da>ton for over 3 years. He is president of Acme Precision Products. Three of his four daughters are still at home •— the oldest is married and lives 
• in Cleveland. John and his wife, ^fa^^•bc!Ie Dennev­(St. Mary*s 1933), will both be returning for their 30th Reunion in June. 
FATHER FRANK GARTLAND, C.S.C., after 25 years in pubh'cations, ND "Religious Bulletin," "Sunday Visitor," Catholic Boy and Catholic Miss, is now Director of Vocations recruitments at the Holy Cross Seminary at North Easton, Mass. Fol­lowing the celebration of his *'Silver Jubilee," Father Frank traveled through Ireland, Spain and Uganda to study ways and means of increasing priestly vocations. He looks forward to welcoming sons of our alumni in the new "Scm." 
NORB SCHWARTZ is now living at 202 Marshall Avenue in Jefferson City, Jfissouri. Norfa's place of business is in Jefferson Cit>- at 429 Madison Ave. 
PETE CONNELLY celebrated his 20ih \Vedding Anniversary in March. His oldest daughter Marcia, is a sophomore at Boston College, and his youngest daughter Honora, attends Nazareth Academy in home-town Rochester. Pete sees FRANTC DcCLERCK frequently and corresponds regularlv ivith FATHER JIM DONNELLY. BILL LYNCH visited vrith him during a recent trip to Rochester. Pete is mak­ing efforts among those of our class to present Father Jim Donnelly with a visit back to the Campus for the Reunion. 
An interesting note from Leo Keating — athletic director at Atlantic City H.S. His oldest boy Dan was captain of the 1962 Colgate football squad. When Colgate plaved Holy Cross, Leo \isited uith JL\f R4RRIS. He also recently sau- GEORGE GRU and HARRY GRAITAN. Leo would like some news about the whereabouts of FRANK GAUL. 
From New Orleans, JULES de la VERGN^ v^-rites that he sees his nughbor BILL DREUX frequently in Orleans. Jules, one of the out­standing architects in the South, has his ofHcc in the Perc Marquette Building. His daughter Paulette Is married and son Chris "prepping" industriously for admission to ND. 
FATHER CHARLES SHEEDY, C.S.C., a little thisncr from the cares of office, is presently on leave for a mucli needed rest. He has been most helpful in making Reunion arrangements and v%'e look forward to his return to the campus in time for the Reunion. 
A note from MARSHAL McA\'ENEY also in­forming us about Vic Schaeffncr's death. Maishid lives in River Edge, New Jersey. Still see him at the N.D. New York Club Meetings. 
A nice note from MARV HUOT from Kankakee, 111., the first of the year. He promises to be at the Reunion. 
J.ACK TRAVERS, executive vice-president and general manager of the Retail Merchants Assoc, of Buffalo, was installed 2ts president of the Ameri­can Retail Assoc at ceremonies in i^ew York at the Waldorf-Astoria early in Januar>'. 
BOB JOHNSTON of Harrisburg, Pa. suffered a mild heart attack in October. He was cheered by a call from GEORGE REILLY from Pittsburgh during his hospitalization. Bob has now relumed to the office and expects to resume normal activities real soon. 
ED GOUGH in Cleveland and JACK BREEN in Detroit each working diligently with local class members to assure a good reunion turnout for the Reunion. We had plans to get together In March on a trip West, but the New York "flu" bedded us down, and the trip had to be cancelled. 
From the Alumni Office: TURRELL ULEMAN vv-as appointed director of 
the oommcrdal research and development department 
54 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 
J. WALTER KENNEDY, '34, former basketball coach, sportscaster and N.D. sports publicist, has had a spectacular career in recent years, cuhninating in his May 1 appointment as president of the National Basketball Ass'n. Mayor of Stamford, Conn., since 1960, Walt had previously toured the world as a publicist for the N.B.A. and the Harlem Globetrotters basketball team. 
of the Pituburgh Plate Glass Co. He has been vrith 
the company since 1937. 
Tile board of directors of Tlic Lithographers and Printers National Association announced the selec­tion of FRANCIS R. CA^VXEY as the Association's new executive director. His appointment was effec­tive March 25 upon his resignation from his present position as vice-president of the Magarine Publbhcrs Association. For seven years prior to his scr\ice with Jf.P.A., he was director of the Office of Budget and Management, U.S. Department of Commerce. For his service in this position, he received the Gold Medal Award "for outstanding contributions to the efficient administration of the Department of Com­merce." Francis is a member of the District of Columbia Bar and the United States Supreme Court, and has served on the faculties of Syracuse, George­town and Florida Universities. 
Our v\'armest congratulations to the wife of PAT­RICK F. CROWLEY who received the 1963 ifag­niBcat Medal from Mundelein College. The medal is awarded annually to an alumna of a Catholic Col­lege for women (Mrs, Crowle>- attended Trinity College) vvho by the example of her own Christian living has made distinguished ixtntribution to Amer­ican life. Commented Sister Mary Ann Ida, B.V.M., Afundelein College president: "To present the Mag­nificat Medal to Mrs. Crowley alone is almost im­possible. It is very difficult to evaluate her apostolic work apart from that of her husband. Yet it is this very aspect of her activity* — her cooperative v%-ork with her husband and family — that has enabled her to make an impact on the Christian Family Movement that is international in its effects." The Crowleys are currently serving as executive secre­tary of the Christian Family Movement, as co-treasurer for the Foundation for International Cooperation, and on the follow-up committee for the National Conference on Race and Religion held recently in Chicago. 
A note on EDWARD >V. BEAHM vvho is run­ning for the Republican nomination for a South Bend district — Ed is a district manager for the Woodruff Coal Co. He and his wife Helen have a daughter and a son. 
1934 
T. Edward Carey 223 Ehnwood Rd. Rocky River 16, Ohio 
From the Alumni Office: Martina Bums, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. JOHN 
P. BURNS (former manai^'ng editor of the ALUM­
NUS) has won one of the highly competitive scholar­ships offered to children of Ford Motor Co. em­ployecs. Martina leans towards Northwestern and public relations (John is with Ford and Mrs. Bums is publidty director at Mercy College in Detroit). 
Dr. CHARLES W. MUELLER has been named Fellovtf of the technical staff for continued outstand­ing technical achievements at RCA Laboratories. In 1961-62, Dr. Mueller was awarded an RCA Euro­pean Study Fello\s-ship at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich. The recipient of three RCA Lab Achievement Awards, he vvas one of the redpicnts of the 1962 David Samoff Outstanding Team Award in Science "for team performance in conceiving and developing devices, circuits, and memories for kiIomcgac>*cle computers." He is^ a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, and a member of the American Physical Society and Sigma XL 
C. GLYNN FRASER is operating a limiting and fishing resort as a side line; Utc Lodge, Buford, Colorado, and as Glynn says "right in the midst of the best elk and deer country in Colorado." 
1935 
Franklyn Hochreitcr 702 Scarlet Dr. Towson 4, Maryland 
From the Alumni Office: JOHN J. >fcQUADE has been appointed loan service supervisor for the North Hollywood Federal Savings and Loan Assn. The newspaper clipping is from Van Nuj-s, Calif. Is that your home, John? The promotion of PATRICK J. CARROLL as sales manager of the Murray Ohio Mfg. Com­pany's Wheel Goods Division was announced. Pat, wife and son live at 306 Jocelyn Hollow, Nash­ville, Tennessee. ROCCO V. SCHIRALLI has entered the mayoral race as a Democratic nominee in Gary, Indiana, a town that coiUd apparently benefit from the leader­ship of a N.D. man. Rocco said he entered the race for mayor "with the utmost confidence in victor>*." We hope so! To really **makc" the column this issue, we have a nevfsy letter from JACK R. EDW.\RDS: **I received a post card from your office re­questing verification of my death. I returned it vrith a hastily scribbled note to the effect that my present good health vs-ould make the giving of sucli verification a gross misrepresentation of fact. "Inasmuch as Z signed the card, "33 and still alive,* perhaps I should give you a brief account of myself by way of proving it. "The number one item, of course, Is my family. My lovely wife is the former Margaret ifary Mc-Shane, a Brookl^-n girl. Our daughters, Anne, Mary, Elizabeth, >fargaret and Regina are 12, II, 10, 9 and V/t years. Very ably holding his own is one son, John, Jr., age 3. I have been with the Neiv York Air Brake Company for nine years and am presently managing international operations. "I had an exchange of letters with my room­mate, GEORGE AfELINKOVICH last fall. Mink*s daughter, Georgyn, went over to Ghana with the Peace Corps. I had been there during the vvar and Georgyn stopped en route to get some first­hand impressions of the country from me. Mink is living in Pacific Palisades and is Director of Athletics at Brentwood Academy after a very successful coaching career in the Catholic high school league. "I Wrote to Bill Mahoney to congratulate him on his appointment as Ambassador to Ghana and to tell him Georgy is there. Even though Ghana is a new and small country. Bill's job is as im­portant and as difficult as an ambassador can have. I know the country pretty well. I went out there just before Pearl Harbor v*ith Pan American Airways-Africa Ltd. During most of the ten months I was with Pan Am I was in Lagos, Nigeria handling ocean shipping. When the U.S. Army took over the operation I was given a field commission and moved to the Gold Coast (now Ghana) where I served as Army Port Commander in Takoradi for 34 months. I am still in the Reserve — a Lt. 
Col., Transportation Corps. 
"I ran into JIM SHIELS recently. He Is with Gregory & Sons on Wall Street. The last time I ventured 'downtown' I bumped into VINCE HOGAN. He is with the Maersk (steamship) Lines. Two or three years ago I found myself standing next to ED BIGGINS in the Times Square shuttle train. He was then vice-president of Pyrofax Gas Corporation. MIKE SAN'TULLI's office is in the next block. He is in charge of the Field Col­lections Office of the Internal Revenue Service. 
He is always promising to come in for lunch but never does. I often see my fellow parishioners, GEORGE ISSELMAN and CHUCK FINKEL, 'St. at St. Catharine's Church in Glcn Rock. I think both of them are with Okonitc Cable. Incidentally, Chuck claims that he can say with a greater degree of truth than any of his classmates that he has as much hair now as he had when he was a student. I often see EDDIE HOYT. He Js with the Foreign Credit Insurance Association. 
"Reverting to that post card inquiring about my death, my wife was most thankful she did not receive it this time a year ago while I was in Argentina. The seven weeks I spent in Buenos Aires on business spanned the turbulent period from the general elections up to the time rival fac­tions of the army 'squared ofT in the streets. Even though she had been down there to spend the middle week with me, she says it would have been a real jolt if your post card had come a fc^v days after the 'civil w^r^ headlines made the New York papers. 
*'P.S. I should like to conflrm that my home address is correct as you have it listed; i.e., 6 Bancroft Place, Fair Lawn, Xew Jersey." 
If any of you have a spare moment, as Jack did, please take pen in hand. It makes YOUR Class column so much more interesting. 
1936 
Joseph J, Waldron 70 Black Rock Road Yardley, Pennsylvania 
From the Alumni OfHcc: REV. EDMOND F. P. HAMMER celebrated 20 years of scr\*ice to St. Thomas Aquinas Church, New York City, in December. Many members of Father's distinguished Catholic family were present, including his father Ernest, retired Justice of the Supreme Court. 
1937 
Joseph P. Quinn 
P.O. Box 275, Lake Lcnapc Andover, New Jersey 
From the Alumni Office: 
An outstanding member of the Notre Dame faculty. Prof. EDWARD A. FISCHER left for Austria to deliver a series of lectures at the Salz­burg Seminar in American Studies. £d teaches courses in film criticism, communications media, writing and design. He is the author of *'The Screen Arts.*' Hb documentary "Life Without Germs" was recently selected for inclusion in the Eastman archives as an outstanding educational film. He has also ser\'cd as juror at the Golden Reel, American and Venice Film festi\-als. Somehow Ed Bnds additional time to act as associate editor of the ''Journal of the University Film Producers Assn.'* and a columnist for the "Ave Maria." 
.. . a bulletin from Eli Lilly & Co. stating reorganization development ivas received here. And, the man behind the scene was our own THOMAS 
P. CARNEY, vice-president of research, develop­ment, and control for the pharmaceutical firm. 
Glad to see it's never too late for more Icarnin*. EDWARD J. FLANAG.\N received his Master's de­gree in business administration from St. Louis University. Congrats^ Ed. 
Silver Jubilee Reunion June 14-15-16 

1938 
Bumic Bauer 1139 Western Avenue South Bend 23, Ind. 
Last call for J-Day — That's June 14th when the back-slapping and belly-laughing start at the greatest Silver Anniversary Reunion ever held 'neath the Gold Dome. 
Reservations generally accompanied by $10 — (including a Confederate note from CHAUNCY ROONEY) are swelh'ng the coffers. Area Chair­men are reporting good and bad success in their round-up eflorts depending on whether you're an optimist or a pessimist. A gladsome development is the large number who are returning for the first time since graduation day. 
First in with the rcser\*ation and cash were DON CURRIER and BOB MAZANEC, followed in the next mail with JOE CLIFFORD, FATHER JACK ANTON, former South Bend Mayor JACK SCOTT and PAUL HUGHES. JIM NERNEY from Attlcboro, Mass., RUSS LONGON from Geneva, Switzerland, and BOB MULLEN from Clarendon Hills, Illinois, sent theirs in the same day. JOHN O'CONNOR, CAS VANCE, PAUL LEAHY, PAUL ANDERSON, CHARLEY MORROW, MIKE CRO^VE (all the way from San Gabriel, CaliL), DAVE CONNOR, TEX HAGGAR. FRANK MAY, CHICK GALLAGHER, BOB SHEA, HANK MACKIN and DAN GIBBS were also quick with the cash, bless 'em. 
Of course, area cliaJrmen like FRANK O'LAUGHLIN (all lllinoU outside of Chicago), FRANK PRUSILV (Chicago), BOB HACKAL\N (Ohio) have sent in copies of their local prodding. TEX HAGGAR fon^-arded a check from JOHN BUCKLEY whose son's graduation from Rice might prevent him from coming, but John's thinkin' and actin' positive! Great! 
The local South Bend committee "roundcvous" (let's have another round) at ED CRONIN's rathskeller regularly and amongst other constructive activities have added to our area chairmen. JIM "I-5er\cd-before" MURPHY will lead an air con­ditioned contingent out of Arizona, SPUD "Lct's­have-a-song" O'BRIEN is combing the Ozarks, GENE VASLETT and BUNNY McCORMICK arc cam-assing California, ROGER BARRACK is corralling colorful Coloradans, Dr. CARL IRWIN, the other brain in Morrisscy sub, is using the scientific approach on Delau'are dwellers. OSCAR ZOSS and Dr. FRANK BERRY are integrating 
JOSEPH WILLIAM MEHRING, JR., '38 Veteran Mgr., Transferred to Taller Com 
Early this year J. William Mehring, man­ager of the Bayonne, Ne%v Jersey, plant of Com Products Company, was promoted to manager of the company's larger plant in North Kansas City, Missouri. 
After graduating in chemical engineering. Bill Mehring started working for Com Products at the Argo, 111., plant in July, 1938. In 1940 he went on active duty with the Marine Corps Reserve as a PFC. Sub­sequently commissioned, he served in Iceland (at the outbreak of W.W. II) and the Pa­cific. In 1946 he returned to inactive duty 
the '38 forces in Georgia and North Carolina for a march thru N.D. Dr. DENNY £MHANUEL» tho not a pediatrist is using the com to at* tract lowans. JlSt "I'm-just'a-plains-man" KEEGAN in Kansas and HERB "This-time-I-need­no-showin' " WEBER of Missouri challege GENE ELY in nearby Nebraska and ED KAVANAUGR in Oklahoma to herd more hands to the stampede tlian they do. Other westerners rounding-up the stray '38en are SCOTT REARDON, South DakoU, THOMAS A. (for Anaconda) KELLY, Montana; HANK ' * they-called-me *Henry* back-in-Utica'' LIPSIE, New Mexico; and TGSt HUTCHINSON, Oregon. The southern mint julcp section is headed by ART DAVIDSON. Louisiana, and JOE CA­NALE, Tennessee. JOHN CLIFFORD has promised double results from the Twin Cities of Minnesota. 
There are some opportunities that come only once in a lifetime. If missed, they cause unending regret. Such is your Silver Anniversary Reunion. You've spent four significant years at Notre Dame and made friendships that deserve renewing. Don't deny your friends nor yours of this certain-to­be-cherished experience. 
Your classmates who covTred up for you on a missed assignment in class or on the field, the roomy who closed the window when Father Farley banged you awake on a winter's morning, the fellows in the hall ^vho lent you their tuxedos for the fonnab at the Palais, those who stopped their taxi to pick you up while thumbing a ride on South Bend Avenue a few minutes before midnite, your neighbor who shared the dim lights in the hall for extra study after lights out, the boy who split with you the box of goodies from home — ALL \vant to sec you. Don't you want to see them? It's not too 
as a major and retired in 1960 as a lieuten­ant colonel. 
In 1941 Bill married Frances Bearse of La Grange, 111. Carol Ann, their first child, ^vas bom in 1942 in Oak Park, 111. (while Dad was in the Solomon Islands); attended Garland Junior College in Boston and Berke­ley Secretarial School in East Orange, N.J.; and on June 22, 1963, she will marry Peter Hocy of Princeton and Mt. Lakes, N.J. J. W., Ill (or Young Bill), bom in 1945 in Washington, D.C., is currently attending St. Francis Preparatory School, Spring Grove, Pa. Josephine (or Jody), bom in Elgin, III., in 1946, attends Mt. Lakes High School. Peter arrived in 1951 in Oak Park, HL Michael, the youngest, was bom in 1957, in Corpus Christi, Texas. 
-After W.W. II Bill returned to Com Products and successively supervised at the Argo, 111., plant; the Corpus Christi, Tex, plant; the Chicago and New York offices; and the Bayonne, N.J., plant, before his re­cent transfer to manage the plant in North Kansas City, Mo. 
Bill has been active in Holy Name and Men's Club activities in various parishes as chairman of retreat and membership com­mittees and teaching Confraternity of Chris­tian Doctrine religion classes for high-school students. His community activities in the past year have included: chairman, Bay­onne Economic Research Council, a munici­pal watchdog and advisory group, and Cor­porate Divison, Commimity Chest; Board and Steering Committee of Labor-Industry Committee of Bayonne, a better-govemment group, and one of the founders of the Hud­son County Employers' Legislative Com­mittee, a nonpartisan good-government group operating at the State level; Board of Directors, Bayonne YMCA and Chamber of Commerce, and member of Mayor's Trans­portation Advisory Committee; also active in New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce, American Management Association, and the American Oil Chemists Society. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 55 
late, yet. Hurr>-! If you haven't sent in your registration, please do it right now! We vill all look forward to seeing you Friday, June Hth at Notre Dame. 
1939 
James N. Motschall 
Singcr-Motschall Corp. 
10090 West Chicago 
Detroit 4, Michigan 
Next year at this time wc will be on the campus celebrating our 25th Reunion. It is not too early to make plans now. TTiis year we will be sending you additional literature to help you plan your trip to the campus. Will all the officers of our Class please drop mc a note so I can suggest a plan of action for our Reunion. 
Ran into ANDY ^\^LSON, who is the assistant public relations man at American Motors. He was most happy because of the passage of the new Michigan Constitution. Andy Avas chief publicist for the George Romncy's Citizens for Michigan Organization. .Andy would like to hear from FRED DIGBY, LOUIS BERTRAND and FRANK CUN­NINGHAM. Saw TOM M.\HER at Cunninghams recently, he still works at Ford Motor and has just moved into Grosse Poinle with his fine family. Tom has four sons, the oldest of which is a sophomore at Loyola in Chicago. Number 2 boy is a mem­ber of the Detroit Boat Club Rowing Crew, which raced at Hawlcy Regatta in England. 
My good friend CHARLIE RODGERS is vice-president of Kramer Consolidated Trucking Com­pany. If you need anything shipped in the Middle West or East be s«rc to call his company. Charlie and Ills lovely wife, Yvonne just left for a \-aca­
tion in the South, returning soon to get his Chris Craft Cruiser in the water at the Detroit Boat Club. 
GEORGE J. ^^^LLIAMS, is the sales manager for the Creamette Company of Toronto, Canada, where he lives with his wife, Joan and four children. George is making plans to attend the 25th Reunion and in the meantime would like to hear from "Nil." a\RL H. FRICKE, JR., and wife, Eleanor and three cliildren live in Los Angeles, Calif. Carl is a member of the Notre Dame Club in San Gabriel Valle>'. Although Car) has not been on campus since 1939 he keeps up with the news and views of Iiis Alma Mater. 
JOHN WINTERMEYER of Toronto, Canada, is the Leader of the Liberal Party in Ontario where he lives with his wife and six children. He would like to hear from Joe Harrington. 
THO.XfAS M. REARDON is in the general in­surance business. Tom is the proud father of ten children, 5 boys and 5 girls. His oldest son is studving for the priesthood. Tom would like to hear from DICK BROWN, HARRY KAISER, JIM TORMEY and JOE SULLIVAN. ROBERT CAMP­BELL, M.D., is a dermatologist in Beaver, Pa., where he lives with his wife and seven children. Robert is looking fonvard to the 25th Reunion. 
EDWARD J. CARROLL wrote me from Bed­ford, Pa., where he is sales manager for the Mining Division of Kcnnametal, Inc. Ed's office is only 200 >'3rds from the Midu-ay Restaurant on the Pcnn. Turnpike; he promises to spring for cofTcc if any *39 classmates stop by. He would like to hear from JOHN C. STARKIE. 
JACK MCDONAL D HVCS in Cleveland, Ohio, with his wife, Janet and six children, 4 bo>3 and 2 girls. Jack is making plans to attend the 25th Reunion, meantime would like to hear from GREG RICE, JOHN McMAHON, ART GARTL.\ND, and MATT MERKLE. 
^Vithin the next few weeks I will send out the fifth and final questionnaire for our Class. 'When you receive it please send it in immediately so we will have Class notes thru June 1964. 
Thank you for all your help during these past eight years. It has been most gratifying hearing from so many of you. To those »»'ho ha**c not yet dropped me a note, please do so. .^t the 25tli Reunion I plan to set aside my *'QuiII" and re­sign my duties as your "Quill Driver." 
From the Alumni Office: PHILIP J. MALONEY, a native of Columbia City, Indiana, was appointed deputy commissioner of the Fedetal Housing Administration. Phil has been a Veterans Administration official for the past 16 years. A special word of congratulations to PHILIP RECORD NORTH who was made a Knight of the Holy Sepulchre by Pope John XXIII on February 28. 
56 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July^ 1963 
NORMAN J. FREDERICKS, '35 For DAC Presidency, Concrete Credentials 
Norman Fredericks, former president of the N.D. Club of Detroit, was recently elected president of the Detroit Athletic Club, after ser\*ing several years as a mem­ber of the board and chairman of the house committee. To achieve the presidency of the DAG is a great distinction in the Detroit area and throughout the automo­bile industry. The club is a social center for the industry, with officers traditionally in­cluding its great names. 
Norm's achievement carries an additional distinction for the University in that he is the only Notre Dame man since the late, great Harr>* Jewett to attain the club presidency. 
In addition to his A.B., Norm Fredericks earned a Juris Doctor degree from the University of Michigan Law School. He practiced law in Detroit for a few years, then became an executive of the family business, Koenig Coal & Supply Co., which celebrated its centennial a few years ago. He has hccn president for se\'eral years and is on the board of the Bank of Com­merce and a former director of the Bloom­field Hills Country Club. A national figure in the building supply business, he has been president of the Michigan and National Ready-Mix Concrete Associations and the Ready-Mix Concrete Institute. 
Norm and his wife Lois live in Bloom­field Hills. They have six children — three boys (Norm, Jr., *62, is an inter­mediate DAG member) and three girls. Active in the diocese. Norm is a director of Wayne County's Catholic Social Services and an officer of the Cardinal's Club, founded by Cardinal Mooney to foster and finance vocations. 
1941 
James F. SpcUman 7 East 42nd Street New York 17, Neiv York 
From the Alumni Office: 
Only one item arrived in our office for the Class of '41 this issue, but at least it was filled with information about EUGENE R. FARRELL, of Hauppage, Long Island, N.Y. Gene has been elected assistant treasurer of Maxon Electronics Corporation. Active in community and church activities, he was president of the Laurence Harbor Little League, and held officerships in tlie St. Laurence Holy Name Society, the St. Vincent de Paul Society, and the Knights of Columbus. Just as bus>' at home, he and wife Belt%* have six cliildren. 
1942 
WiUiam M. Hickey 
3333 West 47th Place 
Chicago 32, Illinois 
From the Alumni Office: Dr. PETER V. MOULDER was back on campus March 27, to speak to prospective medical students on ''Experiences in the Development of a Surgeon." Pete, a professor at the University of Chicago, is engaged in research work, concentrating on the problems in\-olved in heart surgerx'. Prof. JOHN R. MALONE %\-as in industrial work prior to joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1952, and his return to academic life has pro\xd successful. John has been appointed assistant dean of the College of Business Administration. He is a member of the American Marketing Assoc., the American Economic Assoc., the American Statistical Assoc., and Beta Gamma Sigina, the national honor­ary business fraternity. John, wife Ellen, and their six children live at 126 East Pokagon BUxI., South Bend. 
ROBERT C. UHL has been named cit>' manager for Hertz Rent A Car in Dayton, Ohio. Bob will maintain headquarters at TIic Stratford House, 330 West First St., Dayton. 
In attendance at the First International Notre 

Dame Convention from our dass were TOM 
WALKER, BILL MADDEN, ED GLAZIER. DON HOGAN, BILL HICKEY, and BILL MARSHALL. The afTair was held at West End, Bahamas on April 26, and we can recommend the week end highly for those of you who arc young and have "viggah." 
Had a nice note from STEVE GRALIKER, who is President of the Notre Dame Club of Decatur, Illinois. He reports that while at Purdue Univer­sity recently he played handball with BERNIE CRIM.MXNS, and reports that Bemie^s skill at the game and hairline arc amazing. Crimmins won every game and has a \nilgar display of hair. While in Lafayette, Steve visited TED McDONALD ^vho has nothing but accolades for PROF. JOHN MA­LONE'S business oonstilttng work, and a fascinatmg narrative of last vacation with NEIL McCARTY and families. Steve \-isited with BOB RAFF in Milwaukee where he is a Manager of the I^Rosa Macaroni Co. Incidentally, the writer ran into Bob in Miami recently and he looks very well. Steve also \-isited with OTTO MOLIDOR who sells confec­tionery items. I did not see the January 12 issue of Look magazine in which Steve reports there were two full pages of the EDWARD F. HACKETT family; howe\'er, "Joints" has turned into a hermit­likc sheephcrder and refuses to acknowledge rave notices. ED MANGELSDORF asks what hap­pened to WALTER KELLY and ^VALTER Mc-CORT of Fl>-ing Irish Fame? 
WM. E. KENNEDY, President of Kennedy Tank & Mfg. Co. of Indianapolis has been elected Pres­ident of the Steel Tank Institute for the year 1963. Bill has been President of Kennedy Tank since 1947. The objective of the association is to work with the 
A.P.L to establish standards in specifications for storage tanks. 
Twentieth Anniversary Reunion June 14-15-16 

1943 
Jack Wiggins 5125 Briggs Avenue La Crcsccnta, Calif. 
From the Alumni Office: JAMES C. DOWNEY was named a new judge of the 15th Judicial Circuit (Palm Beach and Broward Counties] in Florida. Jim is a member of the law firm of Paty, Downey & Lewis, practic­ing in West Palm Beach since his graduation from the U. of Florida Law School in 1948. He and his wife and two cliildrcn live at 229 Belmont Road, West Palm Beach. 
1944 
George Bariscillo, Jr. 
416 Burlington Ave 
Bradley Beach, N. J. 
Class Prexy, JOHN LYNCH, has requested volunteers for our 20th Reunion Committee to make themselves known to him (13 Brookv-ale Road, Framingham, Mass.) or to the Class Secretary. Our 20th will take place in June of next year and every­one is urged to begin making long-range plans to be on hand for this gala event. Any ideas for promotion, etc.y are ^vclcomc. 
Incidentally, JOHN LYNCH continues to do an outstanding job in editing Pcrini News, covering the \'aried Perini national and international en­terprises. We were happy to see tlie bright shiny faces of the seven Lyncli children gathered round the family Christmas tree in a recent issue of the magazine. 
DOM BOETTTO announces the arrival of their fifth giri and ninth child. Dom was appointed by the Bishop of the JoIJet Diocese as Lay Speaker Chairman of their new seminar>* drive. He re­ports he will be on hand for our 20th Reunion next June. 
BROTHER ARMEL has obligingly filled us In 
witli his varied assignments since graduation. 
Brother has 5cr\'cd at St. Francis of Assisi in 
Brooklyn, and was later Superior and Principal 
at St. Thomas Aquinas in Brooklyn, and from 
there appointed to Monsignor Coyle High School 
in Taunton, ^fassachusetts, where, besides his teach­
ing assignments, he ser^'ed as athletic director and 
freshman basketball and baseball coach. His present 
assignment is assistant director and principal at 
Pius XII School, Chester, New York, which is 
primarily a home for dependent and neglected 
boys. He extends his best to *44crs the world 
over. 
Movie and TV star, JOE FLVNN, whom many from the class will remember from campus musicals in prewar days, is hoping to renew acquaintances at a future reunion. We've invited him to come back next June for our 20th. With the success of "McHale*s Na\-y," Joe recently signed a $500,000.00 contract. According to various news releases, we note he also owns a couple of parking lots in downtown Bcveriy Hills! 
1945 
Frank M. Linchan 
29 Burr Drive 
Dalton, \fassachusetts 
I regret having to report the death of a classmate, the first since our 15th, MELVIN P. TOMBER. ^fel died February 26, 1963, in South Bend, Indiana. Mel was a "Villager" and graduated from the College of Arts and Letters. In his senior year he represented the Villagers on the Student Council and was also xice-president of the Villagers. Please remember Mel in your prayers. Jim Donnelly has arranged for a Mass to be offered for our late classmate. 
To ED BALL, our sympathy on the death of his father. A ^Iass was offered on March 2 by Father O'Donnell at the request of Che Alumni Association. May his soul rest in peace. 
FATHER DON TRACEY has been appointed Superintendent of Schools for the Diocese of Lafayette, Indiana. He also teaches at Catholic Central High in Lafayette. To keep busy over the week ends. Father Don serves as assistant at St. Ambrose*s in Anderson. 
ROY C. KOPITUCK, metalurglst, is manager-metallurgy* and materials for Thiokol Chemical Corporation in Denvillc, New Jersey. Active in professional societies, he is also a Republican com­mitteeman. Roy and Dorothy have two children, a bov and a girl. 
HARRY ^L•\CL/\UGHLIN checks in from Oak Park, Illinois, wondering what class he is really in 
— started in '42 — completed In M6 — B.S. in Com. Harry is a buyer with Sears in Chicago. The MacLaughlins have 4 boys. 
The former track star has finally hung up his spikes and dropped us a note — Dr. FRANK MARTIN. With eight children, he specialized in pediatrics and has hung his shingle in Lynbrook, New York. Frank is Chairman of the Board, Rock­villc Center Dioccsean Cana Board, a member of the Advisory Board, St. Anthony Guidance Clinic and is a Diplomat American Board of Pediatrics and Fellow American Academy of Pediatrics. 
JOE FISHER, former "RO," then Economics 
FAUSTIN J. (JACK) SOLON, JR., '38 
J-M Veep for P.R., Ads, Sales Promotion 
Last February Faustin J. (Jack) Solon, Jr., of Wcstport, Conn., was elected vice-president and appointed director of adver­tising and public relations of Johns-Mamille Corp. in New York. He is responsible for administering the advertis­ing and sales promotion programs for the company's broad lines of industrial and 
Major, is General Attorney for Aluminum Com­pany of America at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. After his t%vo degrees from Notre Dame, he got his 
LL.B. from Pittsburgh in *50. He and Helen have three children, 2 boys, 1 girl and live in Coraopolis, Pennsylvania, where he is vice-president of Moon Township Municipal Authority. 
Some of the former editors of the Scholastic BOB RIORD-AN, AL LESMEZ, BILL WADDING­TON must have had quite a chuckle when the '45 column was blue-penciled out of the Feb.-Mar. 
ALUMNUS for a Scholastic Ad — in case you 
missed it — $5.00 a year. JIM DONNELLY, Class treasurer, is extremely an.'cious to increase the "till," so if you haven't paid your dues — $5.00 — send it to him, 19 Adriennc Drive, Old Bcthpage, New York. Thank you. 
PAUL HURD, manager'overscas taxes for Trans-World Airlines, Kansas City, Mbsouri, is looking for%%'ard to the 20th Reunion. He is anxious to see "our small but noisy contingent." Paul does con­siderable traveling overseas to Europe, the Middle East and Asia. Betty and Paul have an "even up" family — 2 and 2. 
FATHER DICK TIMM cables in from Notre Dame College in Pakistan, where he is head of the science department. During part of '62 he also scHi-ed as Acting Principal and Acting Su­perior, said "I have never done so much acting in my life." The college enrollment is a little over 500 with 175 boys in science. With this en­rollment and his many actirities, Father Dick has had to suspend any scientific research for a while, although he had four paper? published last year. He hopes for a leave this fall to a\*ail himself of the better library facilities in the States. 
Sister M, Romaine sends her greetings from Villa Maria College, Erie, Pennsyh-ania. 
Two members of the medical profession checked in for this Issue — our old hallmate from St. Ed's Annex. PAT MAZZA. Pat is practicing in Reading, Pennsylvania, his home town, where he 
building products and for coordinating Johns-Manvillc Corporation public relations activities. 
Jack has been associated with Johns-Manvillc since 1958 when, as head of his own advertising and public relations firm, Solon Associates at Toledo, Ohio, he as­sumed responsibility for Johns-Manville Fiber Glass Division public relations and sales promotion activities. He has been as­sistant director of advertising and public relations at Johns-Mam-ille headquarters in New York since May, 1962. 
Prior to establishing Solon Associates in 1954, Jack was vice-president and director of advertising and public relations for Glass Fibers, Inc., Toledo. This iirm merged with 
L.O.F. Glass Fibers Company of Toledo, Ohio, in 1955 and, in turn, was acquired by Johns-Manville in December, 1958. Pre­viously Jack was Western general manager for the Whitehall Pharmaceutical Division of American Home Products Corp. and prior to that was a radio newscaster and commentator in Philadelphia, New York, and Toledo. 
A native of Toledo, he attended St John's High School there before going on to the University for a Bachelor of Science degree. He did advanced study in advertising and sales management at the Wharton Graduate School of Finance and Commerce, Univer­sity of Pennsylvania. He is an active mem­ber of the Public Relations Society of America and his Notre Dame Club. 
Jack and his wife, Virginia, have four children: Kristina Louise, Deborah Jean, Stephen Michael, and Scott Faustin Solon. The Solon family resides at 24 North Sylvan Road, Westport, Conn. 
and Margurite have 4 chSdren. Writing this dur­ing the Easter time reminds me of the mJsiii^ bell switch in St. Ed's — how about you. Pit? 
From the home of the world football champs — Green Bay — comes word from JOHN GUTHKIE. Jack went to U. of Louisville Med Sdiool and ii practicing in Green Bay. The Guthries have five children. 
Brooklyn, the city of churches, is where BILL QUINN IS vice-president and partner in the North Brooklyn Supply Company. He Is naturally active in the Holy Name and K. of C. and trade assod»­tions. Margaret Mary and their two children, one and one, live in Garden City, New York. 
If any of you have photos of a group of our classmates while at school, in service or from later years, how about passing them along — we will return them. 
Saw where DICK MARTIN made the "Lettexs to the Editor" column in America this month. 
From the Alumni Office: THEODORE S. WEBER, JR., has been ap­pointed Director of Internal Communications for the McGraw-Hill Publishing Co. Ted will con­tinue as editor of the company's News BMIU-tin. He and his family, uife Dorothy and four sons, live at 20 Starlight Drive, Norwalk, Conn. JOHN R. RYAN, employed fay the Connecticat General Life Insurance Co., was named to the Public Relations Committee of the Million Dollar Round Table. John qualified for membership of the club by selling a minimum of $1,000,000 of new life insurance within a calendar year. ALFRED J. SCHAEFER, president of the Po­cono Foundry & Machine Co., makes his home at 1737 North 5th St., Stroudsburg, Penna. A plaque was presented to ROBERT £. RICK­DAN, director of European operations for Whed­abrator Corp., Mishawaka, by the Michiana World Trade Club. Bob was given the award ia recognt­tion of his leadership in the development of e:q>ort trade in the area and for his activities in CXMI­nection with the club. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 57 
1946 
Peter P. Richinski € Robin Place Old Grecnmchf Connecticut 
From the Alumni Office: Infonning us of his new address (2563 Lawton Ave., San Luis Obispo, California), FRAN'CIS L. FOSS included a few tidbits for publication. "I recently left my job as education director after 8 years with the Air Force to become personnel <iirector for the county of San Luis Obispo. It*s a lovely place, and my four oldest kids (there arc six in all) arc attending Old ifission Gram­mar School. . . . "On my first day at the office I Had a welcome \Tsitor, WALT BEESLEY of '3L Walt is with the San Luis Obispo Telegram-Tribune, and he was delighted to have another X.D. man in the area. There are only two of us, he says. ^Valt and I are planning to attend the Stanford game this fall." The ALUMNUS appreciates cooperative alumni like Frank. The formation of an integrated space and life systems department to manage the several space programs of United Aircraft^s Hamilton Standard division was announced along with the appointment of EDMUND V. MARSHALL as head and divi­sion \ice-presidcnt. Ed, prior to thb, was with Chance-Vought for 15 years u-ith residence in Dallas, Texas. He and his wife Dorothy have four bo>*s: Da%-id, 14; John, 13; Gregory, 11; and Peter, 
9. The >farshalls will be moving to Hartford, Conn., early this summer. 
1947 
Jack Miles 3218 Bentlcy Lane South Bend, Indiana 
D-DAY PLUS 16 (Diploma-Day, That Is) 

The IGth Anniversary of our escape from tlie rigors of undergraduate study is upon us, and we trust the intervening years have been memorably b^p y ones for all of you. If they have, or even if they haven't, won't you please fill us all in via a nt:wsy note addressed through your Secretary' to your classmates? 
NAME-DROPPING Old friend ED CHARTIER '49, sends news­paper clippings on the latest political move by EL­MER M. MATTHEWS, yclept "Moose." Seems the redoubtable rascal, who has been speaker of the New Jersey Assembly, now is the Democrat nominee for state senator. The clippings reveal he was selected by the part>''s county screening committee over incumbent Sea. Dona] C. Fox. I cannot resist it: THE QUICK GRAY MOOSE JUMPS OVER THE PASSE FOX! BILL JANN, accorded the ''Spotlight Alumnus" treatment in our year-end issue, has gone and made liars out of that feature fay stepping up an­other notch in the Hertz hierarchy to \-ice-presidcnt. At the rate he's going. Bill must have posed for that Hertz TV ad starring that fellow flying through the air. LT. CMOR. JAMES "BUCK" HEREFORD has been transferred from the San Francisco Naval Shipyard to the Navy's Post Graduate school in Monterey, Calif. Charged with recruiting and training new agents for the Lincoln National Life Insurance Co., general agency in South Bend, as well as administrative assistant duties, is BOB KINNEY. With the agency since 1961, Bob is an honorary lifetime member of the Medical Representative Assn. BOB GSCHWEND and HENRY KRULL have joined the Westward Ho! ranks, moving from (respectively) Canton and Cleveland, Ohio, to West Hollywood and Woodland Hills, CaliL And DON JACKSON has gone the other uay . . . from Lakewood, Ohio, to Hamburg, N.Y. Another Lt.-Cmdr., TOM MANGAN, has de­pleted the population of Anaheim, Calif.; he's now with the Public Works office of the Naval Auxiliary .^r Station in New Iberia, La. JOHN KLINGER has deserted Texas for a position with Chance-Vought Aircraft in Lexing­ton Park, Md. THOMAS J. WALSH has left the Holy Cross Order, where he was knoH'n as Brother Jogucs, and is teadung — in Glen Rock (N.J.) Sr. High School. JACK ZILLV, for the past four years an as­
58 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July^ 1963 
PHILIP J. MALONEY family, attending his swearing in as deputy commissioner of the Federal Housing Administration by FHA Conunisdoner Philip Brownstein (right), included 
(from left): Phi!, Jr. {*68?); Phil, '39, a veteran of 16 years with the Veterans Administration; and his ^v-ifc, Betty. The FHA seems a family tradition, PhiPs father having been a top official of the Home Owners Loan Corporation, FHA forerunner. 
sistant coacli at Brown Univeirity in Providence, 
R.I., has been appointed head football mentor at 
the University of Rhode Island in Kingston. 
And the redoubtable JIM MURPHY, who sounds the academic cymbals at Notre Dame, recently chaperoned and prodded a Fighting Irish grad trio to a pair of tics (wc don't win much any­more .. . mostly lose and tie!) on the now-de­funct "Alumni Fun" TV quizzer. Murph's war­riors were HARRY STUHLDREHER, a football man of note who helps call signals now at U.S. Steel; U.S. Rep. HOWARD McDADE of Scranton (R-Pa.); and author BILL PFAFF. 
HOW'RE THINGS IN: 
1.
 The Americas? 

2.
 Pakistan? 

3.
 Sacramento? 


1. Scorching in your behalf for answers to the cur­rent Latin and Central American enigma, I turned to SAM ADELO, who as a former State Dept. trouble shooter and currently special representatt\x for Kendav*is Industries International, Inc., knows the people, the problems, the politics, and the po> tential of that crucial area. Pending possible more elaborate treatment of his thinking in the general columns of the ALUMNUS, here's a brief quote on the controversial Alliance for Progress: 
"I believe that my thesis about the need for a firm, clear public relations program proposed in my speech, "The Need for Unity of the Americas,' also applies to the Alliance for Progress. It is my opinion that the masses are unacquainted and therefore confused about the true significance of this program. In the rural areas there is a com­plete dearth of information. In the metropoliUn groups confusion replaces the absence of facts. Afany people fee] the Alliance is the name for an outlay of dollar aid from the U. S. Another dif-Eculty is the resistance evident in many official and prix-ate circles toward any cliange in the in­ternal economic and social structures of the dif­ferent countries. 
"In summarj-, the real evolution of the so-called 'underdeveloped' countries and their peoples depends both on the validity of well-oriented pro­grams measured in economic terms and on the moral, intellectual, and political soundness of the peoples for whom these programs are intended." 
2. From BROTHER IVAN DOLAN, C.S.C.: ".. . You speak of the cold and crumby winter there in Indiana. It has been cold here, too, but no snow and ice. A couple of mornings it was down to about 48 degrees. You would probably go out for a sun bath in that kind of weather, but I had on three sweaters and a jacket. We have no heating whatsoever. Liring in temperatures below 50 day and night for any number of days makes one wish for warmer weather. However, the 'winter* is behind us now; for the next eight or nine months it vn\\ be sweat, prickly heat, and a variety of skin troubles. A couple of weeks ago 
I read Tom DOOLEY's Deliver Us From Evil 
for the first time; never able to get my hands on a copy before. All I can say Is that except for the names of the countries the climate and liring con­ditions arc the same. 
".. . You remember FATHER FRANK Mac-FARLAND, C.S.C., from our class? He was here in Pakistan for about seven years and returned to the States some years back, very sick with some kind of tropical disease. He has been under treat­ment ever since. Just recently I heard that he had to have a kidney removed. Keep him in your prayers ..." 
3. JOHN ^UHER writes: "Thank you vcr>­much for your very nice note. It did much to raise Mrs. Maher's morale. 
"The many prayers said for her recovery ap­peared to have been ans^vered. She has improved greatly since that day last February (1962) when she was struck crossing a street in San Francisco. Despite the multiple injuries she received, she gave birth to a beautiful baby boy who is no^v• our alarm clock. It's hard to believe that he is so healthy, especially at 5:30 in the morning! 
"Mrs. Maher and I are extremely grateful to all the i»'onderful people who expressed their solicitude in so many ways. We are confident that the day is not far off when she will be able to run the household by herself. 
"Notre Dame people in particular were vcr>* generous in their oflTers to assist us during a difficult time. JACK MURPHY — class of '50 or '51 — a friend from our days in San Diego, phoned another Notre Dame man who lives in the Bay area, PHILLIP CLEMENS, who ofTcrcd to do everything he could for us. I will alu'a>*s be grate­ful to these two fine Christian gentlemen." 
IN CLOSING . . . Wc never get enough ne%vs from you, so don't feel your contribution will ever go unappreciated. 
The next column will recount some of the im­pressions cf our Reunion visit with some of the men of the '48 class you may know. And, of course, if any of you returns to the campus June 14-16 .. . or any other time, for that matter . . . please give me a call. 
Rfleenth Anniversary Reunion June 14-15-16 

1948 
John Dcfant George A. Pflaum, Publbher, Inc. 38 West Fifth Street Dayton 2, Ohio 
From the Alumni Office: 
WLLIAM AUSTIN MEEHAN (Man of the Year for *62) vvas a recent speaker at a monthly Phila­delphia Club meeting. Bill now heads one of Pfjila­delphia's leading law firms and is a major power in state-wide Republican politics. JACK SCHNEI­DER is boss man of CBS Radio and TV — WCAU in Philadelphia. TOM HESSERT is now building in a big way — schools, shopping centers and for industry. 
ROY W. JOHNSON, now living with his family in Upper Saddle River, New Jersey, has been ap­pointed assistant to the president of General Merchandise Company, Mil\s-aukee catalog sub­sidiary of J. C. Penney Co. The promotion of PATRICK J. MULVIHILL as project manager of education's management development department of the IBM Data Systems Division plant at Kingston has been announced. Pat*s success hasn't only been in the business world. Tlie MuKihill clan, Bob, his wife Marjorie and children Katherine, 11; Michael; 10; David, 8; John, 7; Tom, 5; and Mary, 4; make their home at 183 Pearl Street. Kingston. 
DONALD J. VALA has been named vice-presi­dent in charge of sales for Nordec, Inc. Previous to his appointment with Nordec, Don was sales and service manager for Allied Decal Co. He and his wife Dorothy live at 2185 Green Rd., Cleveland, O., with their two sons. JAMES F. BARK was promoted to assistant sales manager for all products produced and sold by The Dow Chemical Company lo the dry cleaning industry. Unfortunately, there was no other ne^'s about Jim enclosed >vith the announcement. RAY G. GEORGI, of 2613 Sampson St., South Bend, is one of 19 national winners of the first annual Weslinghousc Circle Award for sales ctccHence. Ray, a contract salesman lor the McCafFery Co., won his a^%*ard for his 1962 sales record against quota both on a total dollar and a percentage basis. In addition to a trophy, West­inghouse blazer and special business cards, Ray also won a five-day combination business and pleas­ure tiip to Acapulco, Mexico, starting April 18. Bon voyage, Ray. 
The first '63 Christmas wish for the office vfos received from "Bubbles" and RICHARD O'CON­NELL in their annual (This was Vol. 1962, No. 14.) bulletin, "O'Connell's Irish News." It js sprinkled lightly with interesting and important facts, such as the expose their youngest child re­lated: "This year all of the children are in even numbered grades and have odd ages." (Di'clc III, 13; Peggy, 11; Betsy, 9; Tom, 7; Mickey, 5.) As president of the Minnesota Auto Dealers Associa­tion, Dick travelled quite a bit, but found time for vacations ^viih his wife. (The kids seemed to find a happier time with relatives who were obW­ously unaware of Mom's regulations — or "re­lations" as Mickey calls them for "Show and Tell.") Dick and Bubbles spent some time in Atlantic City, then In New York City to visit JIM MANSFIELD, during February of '62. And while taking a trip to Gilbert, Minn., with their family, they "sneaked ofT" to the Black Hills. As far as we know, the O'Connells are having another prosperous year at their home: 219 High St., 
Marshall, Minnesota. 
1949 
John Walker Wayne, Illinois 
From the Alumni Office: JAMES K. MILLER of Detroit, Michigan, has joined the tax staff of Monsanto Chemical Com­pany's Treasury Department, St. Louis. GEORGE 
O. PFAFF has been named director of marketing for the Formex Co., Knoxville, Tennessee. With AVheelabrator Corp., Mishawaka, since 1953, he has been vice-president of marketing. George is Gallatin Chamber of Commerce and the Knights of Columbus, Bill is married to the former Nancy Jane Moore of Columbus, Indiana. Bill and Nancy reside in Gallatine with their two children, Con­stance, 11, and Matthew, 4. The directors of American Industrial Leasing Company named GERARD C. SPECHT President and at the same time elected him to the board of directors. Kidder, Pcabody & Co. announced the appointment of JOHN P. DEMPSEY, of Wayne, Pa,, as manager of the Pennsylvania Municipal Department in their Philadelphia office. John is a member of the ^funidpai Bond Club of Philadelphia and the Philadelphia Investment Traders Association. DONALD B. BEGLEY has been appointed pro­duct manager Caprolactam for Allied Chemical Corporation's National Aniline Divbion. Don re­sides at 2921 Deerfield Ave,, Yorkiown Heights, N.Y., with his wife and two daughters. EDWARD 
J. BRAUNLICH is the mfg. representative of Jantzen Knitting Mills. JOSEPH F. FAHEY, JR., was elected a senior \*ice-president of The State National Bank of Connecticut. Active in the social and civic life of Stamford, he was appointed in 1960 to a five-year term on the city's flood and erosion control board. In addition, he is trustee of the St. Augustine Council, Knights of Co­lumbus; chairman of the General Unit, Stamford United Fund, 1962; faculty member, American In­stitute of Banking, Stamford Chapter; and mem­ber. Savings and Mortgage Committee; Connecticut Bankers Association, All-Stamford Club, Shippan Point Association, Stamford Planning Board and East Stamford Democratic Club. Joe, his wife and six children live at 60 Auldwood Rd., Stamford. 
Honors were conferred upon KENNETH C. KENNARD, Rochester, N.Y., and PATRICK H. MEENAN, Casper, Wyoming. Ken has been awarded an Alfred P. Sloan Fellowship in Execu­tive Development at MIT for 1963-64. He has been with the Eastman Kodak Co. since 1954. Prior to that time, he took his M.S. and Ph.D. in chemistry from the University of Nebraska. He and his wife live at 446 Curtis Rd. in Hilton, 
N.Y. They have three children. And Pat Mcenan was named Casper's "Young Man of the Year" by the local Junior Chamber of Commerce. Pat, a certified public accountant, scr\'ed as Mayor of Casper in 1962. He Is married with four children. 
1950 
Richard F. Hahn 47 Emerson Rd. Glen Rock, New Jersey 
From the Alumni Office: 
ROBERT D. TRANTER, senior mechanical engi­neer of the technical department of Armco Inter­national Division of Armco Steel Corp., has been appointed safety engineer on the company's head­quarters safety staff. A long, long letter from 
JAMES A. MARTIN was written in hopes that 
it would shake the lethargy out of several other 
engineers, especially those In aeronautical. Jim 
realized he was as much at fault as any oUier 
classmate and decided to unburden his con­
science .. . '50 grads please take note. 
"After graduation I worked at Studebaker briefly 
before going to Santa Monica, Calif^^^ to work 
for Douglas Aircraft. BOB SCHWANTES hired 
In the same day I did at Douglas and wc found 
a room in a very pleasant private home . . . 
Bob moved out In a few months to marry Bunny 
and ED FLE>fING» who worked for Douglas at 
El Scgundo moved In. 
"A few weeks later I got a job offer from 
NACA at Langley Field, Virginia. A life of 
research appealed to me, so I accepted. In no 
time at all I was on my way to VJr^nla, leaving 
California for good — or so I thought. A month 
later, after two cross-country trips, I returned to 
Muroc, California, and my new job at the NACA 
High Speed Flight Research Station .. . I 
liked the prospect for work with the reseaFch 
airplanes, California living, and I didn't like 
Peninsular Virginia. 
"A month after my return to California, I 
was best man at DON DOOLEY's wedding. 
Theresa McCargar was maid of honor. 
"We were married in December, 1932. 
"For the next nine years we made our home in Lancaster, California, while I worked at the Flight Research Center in the fields of aircraft loads, ^'ibration and flutter, and basic boundary layer studies. In 1939 I became technical assistant to the chief of the Research Division, the j«b I had until I transferred to NASA Headquarters in February, 1962. I am in the office of aeronautical research. My primary duty is: X-I5 Research Air» plane Project Officer. 
"Our home now is In McLean, Virginia. 
"Thercse and I had five children while we lived in California: James A., II (Marty), October 24, 1953; Tom, May I, 1955; Mary Helen, February 9, 1957; Patricia, February 21, 1958; Paul, October 19, 1959. They are all fine and healthy, fat and sassy." 
Thank j-ou, Jim, for the nice letter. FRANK .A. PELUSO has been named director of personnel and labor relations for Milwaukee Gas Light Company. Frank and his wife have one child. EDWARD J. DWYER has been appointed to the position of general sales manager for the Josam ^fanufacturing Co. Ed is a member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineering, Ameri" can Society of Sanitary Engineering and the Con* struction Specification Institute. He is a member of the Board of Directors of the Indiana Chapter of the A.S.E.E. Living in Michigan City, Indiana, Ed is active In community affairs, one of hb duties being President of the N.D. Club of MIdi> igan City. President of the Notre Dame Club of Texas, JOHN F. GILES III, has been appointed district administrative manager for the Dallas district sales office of Ford Division, Ford Motor 
PORTLAND—^Pre^dential inauguration at the University of Portland saw newly installed Pre^dent Rev. Paul £. Waldschmidt, CS.G. (sccMid from left), bestow 
married and has two children. NORMAN WM. honorary degrees on philosopher Mortimer AdIer (left); Arnold Petcrschmidt, univeraty 
ORM5BY has been named controller of the Hamil­
controller; and Rev. Howard Kcnna, C.S.G., former preadcnt, now superior 
ton Cosco plant in Gallatin, Tennessee. A mem­
ber of the National Association of Accountants, the of the Indiana Province of the Congregation of H(Jy Cross. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 59 
Company. John and his wife Ncoma live at 6151 East Mockingbird Lane in Dallas. CHARLES MARSHALL recently has been promoted to man­ager of the South Bend office of Victor Business 
IkCachines Division oi Vtctor-Comptometcr Corp. He 
is married and has two children. ROBERT K. WILMOUTH was selected as one of Chicago's "10 Outstanding Young Men" of 1962 by the Junior Association of Commerce and Industry. Bob, operations \*ice-prcsident of the First National Bank of Chicago (a department of 2,200 people), is the youngest vice-president at the Bank. His reputation in banking is known both locally and nationally. Wlicn the American Banking Association Munts an operations spokesman from Chicago, Bob is frequently selected to testify be­fore the Congressional Ways and Means Commit­tee. As a former member of the American Bankers Association sarings operation committee, he 'was in 3 10-man group which represented the nation's 15,000 commercial and savings banks. He is also active in Communit>> Chest and Heart Fund drives, a member of the Chicago Cl\-il Defense Corps and a former licc-prcsident of the Chicago Jaycces. 
WILLIAM J. BRAUXLICH is practicing law with his partner FRANK READY, '30, in Monroe, Michigan. FRANK J. ^VALKER has taken over the reins as editor of Bcckman's Instruments, Inc., quarterly periodical, "TTic Anal>-zer." The company is in Fullerton, California. 
JACK MILES, Secretary of '47, reports news from LOU KREMS: "Finally got our first boy Nov. 27; after ha\ing three girls, I'm really popping my buttons." Lou is associate editor of the Na­tional Baseball League Service Bureau In Cincinnati. 
1951 
Robert Klingcnbcrgcr 
3405 Thames Dr. Ft. Wayne, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office: BILL McMEEL has joined his brother, '57 Class Secretary- JOHN McMEEL, in New York City. Bill, recently hired, is a maritime lawyer with Marine Carrier Corp. after several years on the West Coast and a short stint In Chicago. 
WILLIAM SAHM's brother Walt, '55, has been making columns for his N.D. basketball prowess with Coach Jordan's successful team this year. 
GERALD T. GALLAGHER, director of industrial relations for the Automotive Di\-ision of Studebaker Corp.j was the speaker at a combined dinner meet­ing of the South Bend-Mishawaka Personnel Assn. 
NEW PLANT of Stepan Chemical Co., was dedicated in February at Millsdalc, III., near Joliet, with 400 guests brought from CUcago on a special train. On platform (L-r.) were General Counsel Edmund A. Stephan, Father Hesburgh, President and Founder Alfred C. Stepan, Jr^ and Gov. Otto Kcmer of Illmois. 
€0 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July, 1963 
JOHN PAUL CULLEN, '22, (left) Milwaukee regional manager for the Veterans Adminis­tration, accepts the shillelagh award as "Irishman of the Year," from Dave Braden, VA lawyer and member of the Neville-Dunn American L^o n Post, which made the award on St. Pat's Day. Looking on from honored positions on John's wall are two bosses (and alumni): President John F. Kennedy, LL.D. '50, and VA Adminbtrator John S. Gleason, Jr., '36. 
and the National Office Management Assn. He is a member of the labor relations committee of the Indiana Manufacturers Assn., workmen's compensa­tion committee of the Indiana State Chamber of Commerce and a past chairman of the labor rela­tions study group of the Chamber of Commerce. 
HAROLD H. MUNGER, '15, should be most proud of his son HAL C. MUNGER who is a partner in the Toledo architectural firm of Munger, Mungcr and Associates. Hal has been elected Presi­dent of the Toledo Chapter, American Institute of Architects for 1963 (membership of more than 125). He started his Toledo Chapter term of office as treasurer in 1958 and each succeeding year moved up through secretary-, 2nd vice-president, 1st vice-president. He is the first in the history of the Chapter to hold and perform the duties of all five of these offices In consecutive order, and the youngest in Chapter history to be elected presi­dent. From 1954 through 1958, he scri'ed as Asso­ciate Editor of the "Ohio Architect," the monthly magazine of the Architects Society of Ohio. In 1957, his Bowling Green State University Hall of Music Building won 1st Place in the Bureau for Lathing and Plastcring's Gold Trowel Award. Civic contributions have included, member of the Board of Trustees, Perr>'sburg Way Public Library*; City Charter Commission (publicly elected); Workshop Committee, American Librar>' Trustees .Association; Dou'ntou'n Toledo Associates, Convention Hall Com­mittee; Writing Member "New Building Code" Lucas County, Ohio. Lastly, but of course not least, Hal Is married and the father of two sons: Hal, seven years and Peter, ten months. The happy family resides at East Second St., Pcrr>-s­bu-g, Ohio. 
1952 
Harry L. Buch 600 Board of Trade 
Bidg. Wheeling, W. Va, 
From the Alumni Office: 
The Spaulding Manufacturing Co. has named JOHN P. SKUDRIS to manage the sales of its branch office at S>Tacuse, N.Y, John Is married and the father of three children. JAlhfES F. MUTSCHELLER has qualified for attendance at the annual educational conference of the firm's Presi­dent's Club to be held in Hollywood, Florida. Jim will be one of 4 representatives from the National Life Insurance Co. JOHN M. KELLER was pro­moted to merchandising manager for freezers of the RCA Whirlpool Corp. 
DR. RICHARD DeGRAF recently has been ap­pointed to the public relations staff at DePaul University, Chicago. Dick, his wife, and family, arc living in Chicago Heights after moving from Tri-Statc College, Angola, Ind. Chairman of the Dept. of Marketing at DePaul, DR. ROBERT E. WEIGAND vvas promoted to associate professor. He has just returned from a rcseardi trip around the world. 
.After reading the last issue of the ALUMNUS, GRANT E. FELDMAN, JR., "was overcome by the urge to correspond" with the Class of '52. "After working for three years for the investment banking firm of Lehman Brothers in the Chicago office, on Sept. 1, 1962, I moved back to my home town of Minneapolis. I am now a registered representative of the firm of Shearson, Hammill & Co. 
*'I was married at Sacred Heart Church on the campus, Feb. 4, 1961, to the former Franclne Voisin. We now have a girl Kathleen, 13 montlts, and a boy Steven, one month." Thanks, Grant. 
Tenth Anniversary Reunion June 14-15-16 

1953 
David A. AIcElvain 2328 Alexander Terr. Homewood, Iliinois 
As I prepare to write this offering, I find that the mail bag Is a little healthier than usual. To those of you who have responded to the many desperate appeals, my heartiest thanks; to the rest, another impassioned plea for news! 
A note from JOHN FORTINO brings the ne«-s that he has been transferred to Louisville, where he is now Central South regional manager for Zenith. Dr. RALPH (ARCH) ARGEN is opening an office this July in Buffalo, specializing In rheumatic and arthritic disorders. GEORGE TRESCH is a labor relations supervisor with U. S. Industrial Chemicals In Areola, Illinois. DON RATHGEB Is dividing his time between teaching and managing the summer theatre in Winooski Park, Vermont. Don had previously spent four years at St. Mar>''s of Notre Dame as technical director. BILL REEVES is practicing law in Rochester, N.Y., after having earned his law degree at Cornell in 1956. ROY STRICKFADDEN Is an architect with Strickfaddcn .Associates In Farm­ington, Michigan, and has five children. 
JOHN ROY is a high school art Instructor in Battle Creek, Michigan. TOM SCHAEFER is a mechanical engineer with Scott A\iation In Lan­caster, New York. JOE RIDGE is assistant sales manager with the Wincgard Company in Burlington, Iowa. GEORGE THOX!AS is a petroleum geologist for Tenneco Oil In Shrcvcport, and is completing his thesis for a master's from the U. of Arizona. TOAI REEDY Is sales manager for Norihtown Refrigeration Company In Chicago; Tom and his wife Dede have five children. CHUCK RnTE.N is a grain broker in Chicago, with the firm of Louis N. Ritten & Co. 
D.AVE SCHEiBER is a research associate with the Electrochemicals Department of Du Pont, in Ni^ara Falls, New York. Dave earned his Ph.D. at Notre Dame in 1956. LARRY SULLIVAN is an assistant professor of physiology at the University 
of Kansas. ROLAND TREHEARXE is western sales manager for Nuclear Data, Inc. in San Francisco. GENE RITZENTHALER is supervisor of recreation for the city of PhocnLx, Arizona. HAROLD SHEEHAN b an E.D.P. salesman for RCA in Chicago. JIM THULIS b an accountant with Container Corporation, has five children and lives in Dolton, III. GENE SULLIVAN b basket­ball coach and a teacher at Loyola Academy in Wilmctte. Illinob. CHUCK STALZER is a Lieu­tenant Commander in the U. S. Na\'y, and is cur­rently assigned to the Air Force Space Systems Divbion in Los Angeles. TOM QUINLAN b an attorney in Syracuse, N.Y. ED SARRATF b treasurer and accountant of the Edwin M. Jones 
o 
n Co. in San Antonio. DICK SNEE b a C.P.A. with Raskins and Sclb in Indianapolis. JACK SULIK and hb wife Nancy Jane are living in Corpus Christ!, Texas, where Jack is a gcologbt with Texaco. PETE RILEY b in the wholesale grocery business in Ncwburgh, N.Y., with the 

G.
 E. Howard Company. MARION SMOKER b practicing law in Phoenix, where he b a partner in the firm of Cox & Cox. BILL SPIELER b with Continental Oil In Salt Lake City, and has /our children. 


That's the extent of the news for thb time; I hope that some of the rest of you will respond and save me the embarrassment of a blank page in the next issue. 
From the Alumni Office: P.\TRICK J. COFFEY has been appointed staff assistant at the Evanston Branch office of Connecti­cut General Life Insurance Co. He, wife Donna, and five children make their home in Drcrfield, Illinob. at 1631 Garand Drive. ROLAND W. GRABELLE has been named "Man of the Year" by his asso­ciates at the Chicago branch office of Connecticut General Life Insurance Co. Roland has also been named to the highest rank of the compan>-'s honor roll for agents. He and his wife Joyce have two sons and a daughter and make their home at 113 East Norman Drive in Palatine, Illinois. 
PAUL E. BRAUNLICH was elected president of the Monroe County (III.) Bar Association. Paul is assistant Monroe city attorney, legal adviser to the Monroe County Board of Super\'isors, chairman of the Monroe Area Planning Coundl, vice-president of the United Fund of Greater Monroe County board of directors, and a member of the Monroe Planning Commission. He, hb wife Laura, and their four children live at 425 St. Mar>*'s Avenue, ifonroc. 
HAMPTON A. LYNESS has been appointed field sales representative for Chimagro Corp. He resides at 5000 Oak Avenue, Kansas City, Mo. Married and the father of two daughters, THOMAS E. DOHERTY plans to move hb family to South Bend from Columbus because of his appointment as manager of the Indiana Bell Telephone Co.'s South Bend district. 
ROBERT E. MAHOWALD b one of 8 Demo­cratic hopefuls for the South Bend mayor's post. Bob is president of Mahowald's Luggage. 
THOMAS J. CRIBBS received hbM.A. in Busi­ness Adminbtration at Western Michigan U. in Januar>'. Now an associate professor of mathematics at the College of Holy Cross, PATRICK SHANA­HAS is the author of a recently published text­book, "Introductory College Mathematics." "Sym­metrical Consonance of Play, Rhythm, and Har­mony: An Essay on Plato's Mathematics" b the 55th piece of work PANOS D. BARDIS has had published since 1955. 
1954 
Milton J. Bcaudinc 
76 East Court Dr. Decatur, Illinois 
With my children momentarily quiet, their stomachs filled with chocolate marshmallow bun­nies and Easter eggs. Til get to the bsues at hand: Plan now to attend our third annual Post-Game Class Reunion Party after the N.D.-Wb­consin game. Abo for you advance planners: Our 10-year Reunions will be in June 1964, just around the comer, an event you'll surely not want to miss. With that in mind, if there b anyone who would particularly like to run for Class Secretary and relieve olc Milty of writing these articles (a job I've enjoyed since "The Gapper" passed it on to me), plrase drop me a line. 
On with the news: Jane and BOB \VRIGHT were blessed with their second child, a girl, Mar­jorie, just before Chrbtmas. ED MADIGAN, 5528 Glenbrook Dr., Oakland 18, California, reported 
JOHN ^L CONSIDINE, '49 For N.D. and Conax, an Explosive Exec. 
In Buffalo, Jack Considinc is a rather recent vice-president and one of the original organizers of the Cona.x Corporation, a manufacturer of specialized fittings and ex­plosive-actuated devices for hundreds of different industrial firms. Conax products arc used in many space and missile pro­grams and played a critical in-flight role in evcr>' orbital shot. The New York State Chamber of Commerce recently did a televi­sion series on several companies which have enjoyed a remarkable growth program, and Cona.v was one of two firms selected in western New York. Within a few short years, it has grown from a modest base­ment operation to over $2,000,000 in sales. Jack's driving, restless energy has been a factor. 
A native of Boston, he graduated from the College of Commerce after ser\'ing five years with the Air Force. As a four-engine pilot, he flew to over 60 countries and later reached rank of Major in the Reserves. For over ten years he has lived in Buffalo and has been active in many business and pro­fessional associations. He is just completing a term as president of the Notre Dame Club of Buffalo and has been an offlcer and director in several previous administrations. As permanent chairman of the screening board, each spring he directs his committee in intcn-icwing about 35 candidates for acceptance to the University. 
Jack is an active member of the Holy Name Speakers' Bureau, talking principal­ly on the Holy Land, a consuming interest ever since his visit there several years ago. 
He and his wife, the former Benita Anne Guthrie (St. Mary's, '47), daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. Merlin Guthrie of South Bend, live at 116 Huntington Court in Williams^'ille, New York, along with their five children, Maureen, Mary Benita, Katherine, John and Daniel. A brother-in­law. Dr. Jack Guthrie, lives in Green Bay, Wisconsin. 
from "on the scene" at the filltmore Hotel just before the N.D.-U.S.C. game. He saw JOE BOIVIN (architect from San Frandsco) and MMXT and JACK NOLAN (L.A.) but missed KAY TILLEY. Ed is hoping a big contingent cC 54'ers will be out for the Stanford game next season. Gene Ann and PETE SCHWENK had » boy, Michael, on Oct. 13. Their new addro* is 7407 Chesterfield Dr., Wash. 22. D.C. Had m. note from JERRY KEATING who just moved to 521 Longfellow, Glen Ellyn, Illinois. His family con­sists of his wife Barbara and children Pamela (4), Paul (2'/=). Karen (I'/i), and Kathy (3 wki). Jerry is national retail sales manager. Sears Roe­buck, Dept 687. Had a real luce letter from JOE .AZAR. Joe married Vir^c Nosef en Oct., 19, 1958, in Clarksdale, Miss., and since then have been blessed with three wonderful children, Joe Jr. (3), Freddie (2) and Vickie Anne (1). Joe » in the general Insurance and real estate businen In Greenville, Miss. — I3(H Highway 82 East, 
P.O.
 Box 5089. Joe is real anxious to have lus. old friends stop by, so check your road vacpt for any intended journeys. Joe reports running into ED H^NNON and his wife. Rose Mary. Mrs. JOHN A. FOIRIER wrote the latest from 1329 Rose St., Berkeley 2, Califomla, that John has received a feIIo\%-shIp from The National Science Foundation for a year at CERN, in Geneva* Switzerlimd. He's presently teaching physics at the 

U.
 of Cal. and conducting experiments on the *'Bevatron.'' The Polriers had their first child, Michael Anthony, on Oct. 26, 1962. Heard also from Mrs. T. J. McAnlfT, Jr. (Jack's mom) — J.4CK E. McANIFF received his master's in social and Industrial relations at Loyola University in Chicago, 1959, after 5cr\*ing in the Air Force as a 1st Lt. for 3 years. Jack did the marriage bit on June 9th lost with Joan Wlllard and naturally they arc expecting number 2 as of this writing (a little late to take honors at the 10­Vear Reunion but a "well done" for one so Ions a bachelor). Jack and Joan are living at 4201 Cathedral Ave. N.W., Wash. 16, D.C. Received n real nice Christmas card, by the way, from the Cahills — Brian, Mark, JefT, John and Kevin and I understand they are going to keep trying for a girl even if they have a dozen boys first. Tlie amazing thing is that there arc two sets of twins in the "mob" and if things continue they (Paddy and Jim) could easily overtake the leaders by June 1964. (Anyone have eight yet?) Paddy and JIM CAHILL were married in Aug. 1958. Jim is with SyK'ania Elec. in CamHlus (Data Pro­cessing Center] and his home address is 50& Crawford Ave., Syracuse 3, New York. 


Had a long letter from MEL JIG.^NTI of Petit OHn, Overymcyr &. Fazio, Attorneys at Law in Chicago. (Thanks Mel.) Mel reports his old "room" PETE KELLY lives in suburban Skokie with Iu» wife and two children. Pete works for the John Blair Co. and is an accountant (and part-time­handball pro). Mel's other old roommate and golfing partner, J.^CK McINERNEY is a lawyer living in Chicago and has children ran^ng frmn­
4 wis. to 4 yrs. TONY MANDOUNI is a specialist in governmental accounting with Peat, Marwicke & Mitchell. Tony Is supposedly red' hot on the golf links, a fact which can be proved-in June 1964^ and is the proud pa of 4 boys. Mel reports seeing TOM GODFREY trying a case in Circuit Court. Tom Is a regular at our Re­union parties — right Tom? JERRY O'CONNER is an accountant somewhere In the Chicago area. having left the John M. Smyth Co. L. WARREN GOLDEN Is an attorney for the Brunswick Corp.. (See if you can boost that stock price ^vill ya?) JACK ROSSHIRT (of Wash.-Va.-Md. Club fame) after making his mark as a defense attorney in Chicago look a position with Texaco. He lives: with his wife and three children in the Western suburbs of Chicago. NED GRIFFIN is also scoring \vell in the defense trial group in Chicago. TI.M O'HARA (from Florida) is also an attomer­in Chicago. TOM NESSINGER is moving up the ladder with the accounting firm of Arthur Anderson. TONY LAPASSO Is still a bachelor (han^ g on). JOHN ANDREAS Is the father of five. living-in the southern suburbs and working for Con-­tinental Can. Oh! Mel, who wrote this long letter, is a lawyer, judge of the Village Court of Oak, Lawn, father of four (2 and 2) expecting numbcr­
5 soon. Thanks Mel, one or two letters like yoms just about make the articles complete. 
Had a long talk with JESSE JOLLY in Fort: ^Vayne the other day. He's married, with ooe­child, a girl, and Is a systems engineer for GX . ^frs. PHIL DOELL (Natalie) told us of tbo­adoption of their daughter Susan Malla last Aagmt. Phil is a performance engineer with Babcocfc-Wilcox in Barbcrion, Ohio, and Phtl and Natalic= hope to make it to the Wisccmsln game this faTI._ 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 61' 
{563 Highland Ave, ^Vads^vo^th, Ohio) JIM BOULEY assumed the duties of personnel director of the Minneapolis Div. of National Food Co. He received his master's degree in industrial rela­tions from Loyola of Chicago. Mrs. ^^^LLL^M SIPES, 1051 Diane Ct., Gilroy, California, reports on her hubby Bill (balding a Httlc) is manager of research and design in the clcctro-cxpIosivc systems department of McConnick, Selph. He previously scrx'cd as super\Tsor of the Ordnance Section at Locthccd Sunn>TaIe. Before that he logged 880 hrs. as a Xavy jet pilot. Bill and Mar>- have four clitldren (3 girls and I boy). It is with deep regret tiiat I must report the death of RONALD A. KERSTING. I'm sure you'll aJI remember Ron in your prayers. DICK HOLL reports on his Marine Corps buddies: Dick is ser\'ing a tour in Communications at Camp Le-Jeune, N.C.; NEIL McFARLAND is still a "gravel cruncher" at Lcjcunc also. J.ACK KEEN.\N is still at school at Quantico, Va, and AL SOU'AL­SKY (of Dome fame) is helping run things at Marine Headquarters in D.C. KEN PATTERSON at last report ^vas in Detroit on ofHccr selection duty. RICH HOHNL\N is in L.A.. recruiting (you're right Dick; heard from Dick a few* months ago). M.\TT MALISON is teaching English over­seas somewhere but due to return somewhere soon. (Most infoi-mativc part of my article; you're wel­come). Dick expects to sec JOHN ^fcGINN in Florida soon. 
Now, 1 have a letter from PAUL "Mr. Tuxedo" KELLY (Incorporated, no less) which is rather long and descrxcs to headline the next article, so I'll save it just in case no other mail comes in. Thanks all of you for your mail since the last article. THESE ARTICLES DEPEND — HELP! UPON ITS FRIENDS — HELP. 
From the .Alumni OiSce: 
DICK ROSENTHAL, president of the St. Jo­seph Bank S: Trust Co., South Bend, has been appointed director of sales for the spring member­ship campaign of the Chamber of Commerce of South Bend-Mishawaka. Dick \*-as also the sub­ject in one of CHARLIE CALLAH.-\N's "Sportscast­ing" columns. "Knutc Rockne and later Frank Leahy used to encourage the men on their re­spective teams to accept speaking engagements. Thc>- emphasized that the ability to give a little chit­chat was important in impro\ing one's position in life. Another Notre Dame coach, John Jordan, has suggested the same to his charges. Richard 
A. Rosenthal was a young man who listened. . ." It was at one of Dick's speaking engagements, an 
N.D. alumni affair, that the audience happened to include a banker or two. From here, the story is 5elf-e\-ident. The gist of Charlie's stor>- ^vas even broader in scope though, concluding with: **ReccntIy, and unfortunatclvj you've read stories that could be catalogued as not-so-good, with ref­erence to college basketball. This is presented as a good one." 
Finally, congratulations to Dick for his being chosen to the all-tin>e Notre Dame Irish first team by the Chicago "Sun-Times." 
\\TLLL\M J. KEARY has accepted a position in the field claim section of the Pikes\-ille. Md., office of the State Farm Mutual Automobile In­surance Co. Bill lives at 412 N. Bend Rd., Balti­rnorc. A new position for JEROME O'NEILL KEATING — he is now national retail sales man­ager for Sears Roebuck & Co. He and his wife have a new baby girl, Kathleen, bom January 9, 1963. The Kcatings live at 521 Longfellow Avenue, Glen Ellyn, Illinois. ROBERT B. FROLICHER has been appointed director of promotion and publicity- for WLW-Radio, Cindnnati. He has been with the Croslcy Broadcasting Corp. for 414 years. Bob, wife Bernadettc, and their five children live at 6619 Rapid Run Road, Delhi Hills. 
The Mullanc twins were the topic of a column: "Jack fie Jim — It's He and Him, Or Is It Him and He; Oh Gee!" The article had a good deal of reminiscing: *'One day when we were small, Jim got two baths and I didn't get any." Both twins now have four children. Jack and Jean, with their 3 boys and a girl, live at 5697 Locust St. Ext., Lockport, N.Y. Jim and Sue, with their two girls and two bo>-s, live at 54 Chapel St., Lockport. 
1955 
Paul Fullmer 
award hands down this time. Here's a portion of what the gray, chubby fcllo\s' had to say: 
"If may accent bothuhs you, man, take anothuh look at mah address (1410 Shirley St., Columbia, S.C.). Ah just got so da\-um lahred of not sccin* mah nayum in youah column that ah thought ali'd WTalit and let Y'all know what ah'm doin'. 
"I am the producer, writer, and star (?) of the ver>* finest children's television program in South Carolina. (Probably the only one!) It is called (ugh!) "The Jolly Jim Show." 
To prove his point, Jim sent along an auto­graphed picture of our cx-Scliolastic humorist with his sidekicks, Chief Silly Horse and J. P. Side­winder! He also included a Jolly Jim Safety Squad membership card (including the Jolly Jim Secret Code). Real big stufT! 
Jim married the former Carmclla Kaiser of Toledo. In his spare time, he teaches Englbh at Columbia College, "an institution which produces many of Dixie's most beautiful belles," Other use­less information: "TIic boys in Walsh Hall used to tell me that mv hair would turn absolutciv white before I xvas 29. It did!" "O'SH" would like to exchange epistles with anyone who would care to write him first and enclose a return address since he lost his little black book (probably on Iiis honc%'moon). "I should particularK' like to read the executive cxhalings of PHEL.\N THOMPSON, the pedagogical ponderings of DA\ ^ McCARTHY, the lugubrious legalisms of PAUL "H.ARRY" HANLON, JIM "TEDDY BExVR" NORTON, and CHARLIE BROU'N, and finallv the bureaucratic baloney of JOE DALEY, JOHN SL.\\aCK and 
J. CORBETT O'.MEAR^V. 
jr.M KORTE ran a close second for the top letter of the c>*cle. Jim and hb wife, Kathy, have two girls. He is with Detroit's Master Pneumatic, manufacturer of compressed air equipment. 
Here is Jim's report on the rest of his Detroit crowd. The number in brackets is the last head count taken by each proud papa. ROY BELKN.AP 
(4)
 is head of the McDonnel S: Co, office in the Motor City. ED BORUS is an investment analyst with the National Bank of Detroit. Bachelor JIM BROUGHTON has lined up with the United Motors Scr\"icc Division of General Motors. JERRY FROELICH (3) moved from Detroit to Grand Rapids. While RON ^UKOWSKI (2) is engi­neering cars for the Chrvsler Corp., NEIL M.4SON 

(5)
 is selling them. HARX'EY MUELLER (2) is a buyer with the city's top department store, J. L. Hudson Co. The auto industr>* also has claimed BOB McaARREN (2), who is an accountant with GM, and BERNJE McCLOREY (2), who Js an engineer with Ford. 


At last report, PAT O'DONNELL was a pilot with American. He has moved, however, to New York. KEVIN O'DONTCELL has his doctor's shingle waving merrily in the breeze. CARL PETERS, wife, and twins left Detroit and moved to California. Sly journalism buddy, TOM QUINN, is still reported working for Stars and Stripes in Tok>o. ROB RONEY (1) is an accountant, while JOHN SENNETT (1) operates the family steel business. TOM SCHREITMUELLER (1) is an engineer with Pontiac. JIM STEVENS Iiits the street for the Insurance Company of America. PETE SUTHERL.\ND is a Navy career man. For the likes of ED ARCY, JIM COURTNEY, GENE .MARQUETTE, BILL NELSON, JIM O'TOOLE and STEVE SURBROOK, whom Jim couldn't track down, take a minute and drop me a line so we have Detroit down pal. Tlianks again Jim! 
DICK CONNELLY, who b with NBC in New York, reports that BOB McGRATH was married to the former Nancy Ream on Feb. 2 in N.Y. Tlie ncwl>"weds are living in San Francisco, where Bob is a partner in Dynamic Associates. (That's hustle!) Tulsan JOE McGRfVW was best man. Dick adds that his ex-roomJc, JOHN LOCHTEFELD, is an art professor at a Catholic girls' college in Erie, Pa. According to the grapevine, John has five cliildren. 
My roomie of two years, TOM DORWIX, checks in from .Austin, Texas, (70J-B Brownlcc Circle). "Humphrey" reports that he now covers the entire stale of Texas for Evinrudc Motors, the company's largest sales territory. Of course, I al­ways ask him where the heck you go boating in Texas, and he replies that most Texans have bathtubs big enough to operate an outboard! Tom and Carol enjoyed a ski vacation tn Colorado over the hoHda\-s shortly after moving into their new duplex. They were rubbing shoulders on the slopes with the Kennedy clan, so maybe we'll sec Tom in Washington one of these days. 
BOB CAFFARELLI, who reportedly was the first law^-er of Italian extraction to be appointed an assbtant U.S. attorney, is now with the Chi­cago law firm of McDermott, Will and Emery. He held his government post from Oct. 12, 1959, until he resigned on Oct. 12, 1962. As a U.S. at­torney, CafTarelli handled several important cases invoKing deportation and condemnation. Bob and his wife, Pat, make their home in suburban River­side. 
CAROLYN O'ROURKE, wife of Dick (who b "too, too busy to write"), says that our former football manager is happy as a lark with hb California ranch (74 Washington Dr., Lemoorc). Dick has been fanning since hb Na\-y stint ended in '57. At present he b leasing 600 acres. Carol>-n and Dick have two boys and a girl. Thanks much for the news, Carolyn, and I wish a few more of the wives would follow suit and drop a line while hubby fills out hb reports in the evening. 
JERRY HUGHES, who floats around the Pacific, still b one of the best men with a typewriter. Jerry trntes that he has been accepted /or grad­

7344 N. Ridge Blvd. BASKETBALL BANQUET held by the "i^Uagcrs last spring featured Irish captains, past CSiicago 45, HIIDOIS present and future, surroimding their coach: (L-r.) Mike Graney, '60; John Andrcoli and John Matthews, '62-'63 coH:aptains; Rev. John Smyth, '57; Coach John Jordan, '35; 
Welcome, ye who thirst for information and 

Dick Erlenbaugh, '63-*64 captain-clect; Dick Rosenthal, '54; Jack (Junior) Stephens, '55. 
quips about the illustrious Class of '55. "JOLLY 

JIM".0'SHEA takes the "letter of the cycle" Fans hailed Jordan's sixth NCAA bid attempt. (South Bend Tribune photograph) 
€2 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 

uate study, and hopes to be sent by the Air Force to Stanford or Georgetown, Jerry ^vill start the IB-month course on international relations in September. His utilization field after picking up an MA will be intelligence. (One word of advice, "Huge," stay away from the Bay of Pigs!) Jerr>' mentioned that he received a iine letter from JOE 0*DON'NELL, who is on the mission trail after a year on campus. 
JIM SHERER shared his holiday thoughts with many of us through his, "The Hope of the Christian." It is good to see that someone in our old Journalism class is putting his talent to work for the Lord. As you know, Jim has C.S.C. be­hind his name. Ordination will be at Sacred Heart on June 13. 
DON HANISCH (5765 E. 30th St., Tulsa) is one of those whom I have lost track of for some years, but all of a sudden pops up with an in­formative letter. After working for Dun and Brad­street in Chicago, Don went to Tulsa about five years ago "in pursuit of a female whom I later married." Don and Cathlcen now have two girls. He worked as an accountant clerk for Sinclair for a short time, but then moved into sales work for Olivetti and Underwood- Don would like to hear from TOM HARTZELL, JOE SAUNDERS and DICK aALL^VHAN. 
TOM O'HARA has left the fair state of Penn­
syh'ania for New York (354 Stewart Gardens, New-
burgh). My advice Sir, don't go on relief! CAR­
ROLL DOWDEN is back in Louisville (2513 
Alanmede Road). GILBERT SWEENEY has fol­
lowed suit and can be found at 4009 Alton Rd., 
Louis\-ille. CHARLIE MINGES has moved further 
south and now is located at 3222 Foxhall Rd., 
Columbia, S.C. 
JOHN RICKLING left Lincoln, Nebr.. for our 
^Vindy City, ^vhe^e his pad is located at 39 E. 
Di\Tsion. About the same time GERRY SHEAHAN 
packed up and tackled the Big Town (250 E. 
78th St.) after spending some time in Chicago. 
Here arc a few news notes from Texas. HUGH 
SCHAEFER is in the legal department of South-
cm Union Gas Co. in Dallas. JIM CUNNING­
HAM'S mail is delivered at 5811A Wellington 
Drive, Austin, where he is a neighbor of TOM 
DORWTN's. 
Now for a look at the military. JIM EHRET got out of the Formosan straits and now is at Saufley Field in Pcnsacola. GENE WAGNER has captain bars as he zooms around. He can be readied at Hq. I3/\F, APO 74, San Francisco. DAN O'NEILL is out of the Navy and Uncle Sam reaches him at 117 N. Main St., Butte, Mont. New York figures in a few moves, too. JIM P.AN'^IS moved across countrv to 39-29 Bransom Dr., San Mateo, CallL GEORGE KOLASA left Clarence, Pa., for 277 Pearl St., Lawrence, Long Island. FILr\NK TONINI heads our list ot happy wanderers. At last report Frank could be reached in care of Celcnc, S.P.A., Corso Italia 13, Mllano, Italy. JIM CONLEY is a foreign ser\*icc officer with our embassv in Belgrade, Yugoslavia. BOB SU*INDE.\fAN /eft solid Toledo for this fetching address — 8/25 PHncess St., Brighton-Le Sands, 
N.S.W. Australia. 
Back in the States, JOHN CONNAUGHTON also left Ohio, but he only went as far as the Lawyers Club in Ann Arbor. Another Big Ten City, Urbana, 111., (403 W. Oregon) has claimed GENE MILLER from Cleveland. BILL WAHL headed west and established residence at 10522 Russell Rd., S.W., Tacoma. GEORGE SEIKEL is working in the NASA research lab at Lewis Field in Cleveland. CHUCK DEGAR moved from Eric to 2516 Linda, Warren, Ohio. JIM TRIGGS also left Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh) for Ohio (1360 Croydcn Dr., Lyndhurst). JOHN KEHN, however, hit the trail out of Ohio and he can be reached at P.O. Box 151, Rosclle, N.J. JOHN PINTER headed north from Chicago and settled at 2221 Erie A\*c., Sheboygan, Wise. 
We can't be getting too old because some of our *55ers arc still knocking heads in the pro football wars. Both FRANK VARRICHIONE (L.A.) and DICK SZYMANSKI (Bait.) were named to the NFL all-star team. JIM SCHRADER, who also has played a lot of ball in the NFL, is selling real estate in Winchester, W. Va. Sports Illustrated keeps talking about Capt. DON MATTHEWS, who is at the helm of Bolero, which is competing in the top international races. Is that you, DON "S.\LTY" MATTHEWS? 
Received a nice letter from ALFONSO ALVA­REZ, who is a stock and insurance broker in San Salvador. Doesn't that sound like the grand life? We en\y you, Al, He is married and the father of 3 fine boys. Hh address is Calle Ruben Dario 11-13, San Salvador, £1 Salvador, C.A. 
And now a note from Doctors Kildare and 
NEW DIRECTIONS in welded sculptures are typified in these works of N.D. sculptors: "semi-mobile" Moriarty Fountain in Manchester, Conn., with bird figures mounted on steel rods, work of Da\-id Hayes, '53 (at left); and completely non-objectivc wall figure by Richard Na\*in, *56, one of several abstract polychromatic sciJptures in a recent one-man show at Nc^v York's Poindexter Galleries. 
Casey in the maternity ward. DICK and Mx\RY­JEAN'NE BURKE welcomed their first, Mar>-Loretto, in April. TOM and &\ROL ILVYES had a boy, their third tax deduction. MIKE and HAR­RIET WARD stayed ahead with a new boy, which balances their record at two and two. NEIL and B.ABS HALLOR.AN had their third boy and Dad joked: "Well, wc have the quarter­back and halfbacks; now all wc need is the full­back." Babs had a ready answer: "Forget the fullback; how about some cheerleaders?!" BOB and NANCY WING recently brought home their second girl. 
BERT METZGER's Dad tells me that "Junior" now has four mouths to feed out there in the northwest. RON AUER has number two, I under­stand. AL and BETTY CO^\XES rolled out the red carpet for Daniel Stephen on Nov. 24. Daniel also was chosen by FRANK and GINNY MAIER for their second boy. They also have a girl. Tiiat's about all from the good doctors! 
JOHN D^\'YER's wife, Jacquie, deserves a bouquet for her long letter. She reports that John spent 16 months in the Army at Washington. They then returned to Batavia, N.Y. (20 Fordham Dr.), where John helps operate the family's large shoe store. J S: J have four children. John is active in community affairs, working with both the Lions and Chamber o! Commerce. Jacquie says tliat JOHN CASEY and his wife, Mar>-, drop in oc­casionally. He works for a bank in Rochester. John is president of the alumni group there. TIic Dw\-ers also hear from LEE CRE/\M, who works in South Bend. Lcc has two boys. She adds that JIM HAGGERTY now is regional manager for Chevrolet in Chicago. Jim and hb wife, Jan, have a boy and girl. JOHN and PEG HESTER are nearing their first anniversarj-- Thanks ver^- much for the news, Jacquie, and make it a regular habit. 
TOM O'MALLEY, the former proprietor of this column, checks in %vith his latest information. Tom now is in the brokerage division of Connecticut General Life Insurance Co. Tom and Jackie are one great couple. Belated congratulations to TOM NLVGILL and his bride, Mary. 
BILL McLAIN, who claims to be of the few true bachelors left, penned a note on his Christmas Gxrd. Bill lieard from L/\RRY BUCKLEY, who now has three ofi'spring. ^VilIic saw BILL RErVLE several times in Cleveland, where the world's finest "small" tennis player is practicing law in the *'big leagues" (Mcl^in's quotes!). 
I think I have zcknowledsed practically every­one's Christmas card by now in one tvay or an­other. ^Vhoops, here arc t%vo! Enjoyed cards from two BMOC, JOHN O'MEARA and JOHN BENDEL. 
Glad to see you guys active in your local dubs. DAN MOORE is a big gun in the Alaska Club . . . JOE DONOVAN in Decatur . . . MIKE FOX in Indianapolis . . . BILL BIRMINGH.AM in Jersey Shore . . . BOB GERVAIS and ED FOX in Los Angeles . . . BOB McAULIFFE in St. Louis .. . and TOM WELLY in Toledo. 
Our condolences to D.AN SHANNON and MIL­LARD B.\TTLES, ^vhose mothers died in March. Father Tom O'Donnell offered a special ^fass on campus for each. 
There \**as news this issue. Friends, because you sat down and took pen in hand. Let's do it again! 
From the Alumni Office: A very distinguished salesman, FRANK J. BURGE bad the most outstanding sales record of all salesmen in the Systems DiWsion of fieckman Instrument, Inc. Frank Is no%v N.ASA account rep­resentative responsible for jet propulsion laboratory, 
NAS.A Manned Spacecraft Center, N.AS.A Ames Research Center and NAS.A/AEC Atomic Test Site. \TRNON C. WOLFF, JR., was promoted to senior research chemist of the Polyolefins Division of Dupont's Plastics Department. Vernon lives in Wilmington, Delaware. FR.ANCIS X. NE\WL\N received a Ph.D. in English at Princeton University. Promoted to assistant professor. Dr. ELLIS A. JOSEPH is teaching at the University of Dayton. 
J.AY H. LAUE was a guest speaker at the Teach­ers Institute of Catholic Schools for the ^{obile­.Alabama Hiocesa. He presented two lectures on space flight. Jay is chief of the Conceptual Design Unit, ^fa^shaIl Space Flight Center. J.AMES F. AV.ALSH, currently living in Dayton, Ohio, with his wife and four children, has been named ex­ecutive of the South Bend Catholic Social Service. 
1956 
Alvin D. Vitt 4 Wind Rush Creek (West) St. Louis 41, Missouri 
He was going to be all that a mortal should be TOMORROW Xo one would be better than he TOMORROW Each moroing he stadccd up the letters he'd \»TJte 
TOMORROW It was too bad indeed he was too busy to see Bill, But he promised to do it 
TOMORROW The greatest of workers this man would hai-e been TOMORROW 
The world would have known had he ever seen 
TOMORROW But the fact is he died and faded from Weu-And all that ivas left ivhen living was through Was a mountain of things he intended to do 
TOMORROW 

Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 63 
This certainly applies to mc as author - assembler of our Column bm hoping eacli day that more news would arrive. I waited 'tU TOMORRO\V now the deadline is here. 
JOHN MANION recapped his Chnstm:is card mailbag and rcla>-s that a\R L P. EIGELSB.ACH is still baching it on So. Euclid in Chicago and keeping busy with his accounting activities. 
DENNY PO\VERS is doing a great job selling Traveler's Insurance. He, Iiis wife, Pat, and llicir young sons, Chris and Mike, live in Washington, Illinois, close to Peoria. 
NICK R.AICH proudly announced the birth on December 1, of a fourth son, Joseph. In Milwaukee; Joey will have to get on the physical training scliedulc early to hold his own with brothers Nicky, Mike, and Tony. Nick is sales manager of Kassuba Realty in Mihraukee; he and wife. Shay, arc quite proud of their new home in nearby Brookfield. 
Another year, another picture, another new face for the TOM BOTT family card. For Tom and wife, Cathy, the Danville family now includes Tim, Jeff, Chris, Catliy, and Jackie. Tom is spending time doing sales work now that he's worn out his slide rule. 
.\nother group of good-looking kids was shown on the card from GEORGE and K.4RIN WILSON; the announccmcni proclaiming Susan Louise, born November 15, supplemented a photo of Jeff, Scott, and Julianne. The Wilsons live at 1371 AVood\-ie%\­.Ave. in Calumet City. 
Evcl>Ti and DON \VALZ are living at 6713 W. 78th St. in Overland Park, Kansas — near Kansas City. 7*lie Hallmark Card Company and work on a master's in marketing are keeping Don busy. 

Tlic olc Prof, JIM MASSEY, is under the Dome witli the E. E. Dept. and with wife Kathr>'n, and sons Tom and Robert; their South Send address is 312 Napoleon Blvd. 
And a clieerful "Season's Greetincs!" from Rock Springs, Wyoming, and the TOM KERSCHISNIK family including wife, Mar>- Jo, and offspring: Tim, Don, Pat. and Joan Marie. 
DON and SHIRLEY LOG.AR keeping busy set­ting up housekeeping as ne^vlweds at 27591 Brush Ave., in Euclid 19, Ohio. 

And the best news of all from .Ann and JERRY ALASSEY: HAL SPENCER got marriedl With Jerry prodding as best man, Spcncc married his former secretary on December 1. Hal is now with the Presprich Co. The Masscys (and Father JIM SHILTS) got soaked at the Nax'y game; said the results made it all worthwhile. Ann has set a target of next August to have Jerry "settled back in the Midwest" — of course, I thought Logan, Ohio, was in the Midwest until I drove out there — much before Massc>'s added Cliarles, Mary, and Stcphane. 
PAUL WEGHORST is in the ready-ml\ cement business in Pekin, Illinois. 
FRANK CICCIARELLI soon will finisli his pathology residence at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. 
B. G. DOYLE, 3508 E. 27th Street in Tulsa, Oklahoma, writes that he is engaged to be married to Frances Cline on April 20. Tliey will hone>Tnoon in Washington, D. C , before returning to Tulsa where B. G. is a computer programmer for Pan American Petroleum. 
JOHN CYWTNSKI, after graduating from St. Louis University Afcdtcal School, returned to Chi­cago with his wife Sue and two cliildrcn for a pediatric residency at the Children's Memorial Hospital. John and Sue have seen from time to time in Chicago: DICK CLARK, TOM WAGE­.\1AX, PETER FOY, PHIL BOHNERT and their wives. 
JIM "SPIKE" DALY and his wife. Barbara, are living at 216 Matthews Road, Oakdale, New York, with their four cliildren, Kevin, 5; Mike, 4; Peter Rockne, 2; and Colleen, I. Jim is an industrial salesman for Johnson's Wax Company and be­tween this and his membership in the Suffolt County Athletic OfHcials Association, he is still running. He spent an evening \rith P.AT BIS­CEGLIA, who is Director of Athletics for the City of Worcester — also married and father of a son March 9. SYL RESdNITTI is practicing law in Brooklv-n and, according to Spike^ still thinks the Dodgers are coming back to Brooklyn; JIM MEHARY selling stocks and bonds in Ne%\' York is still an eligible bachelor; BILL SCHELLONG heads the Professional Manpower Association in Com­mack. New York, 2m empIo>-ment and placement bureau for engineers. ED TURNER and AL DEGNAN arc both on the faculty at Chaminade High School, Mineola, New York. Ed has six children! Spike would like to hear from "ROCKY** BILL WERM.AN, JOHN FANNON, LLOYD 
€4 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July, 1963 
JOHN E. KIRKPATRICK (left), Oklahoma City philanthropist and art collector, is congratulated on his N.D. jVIan-of-the-Year citation for civic service by Club President John Hobbs and Bishop Reed. 
AUBREY and GERRY RYAN — so would we! Congratulations to Marie and DAN QUIGLEY on the birth of twin boys, Peter and Paul. 
JIM DOU'DLE on his way to Oklalioma City phoned. He and his wife Sally and three daughters have moved from Chicago to Oklahoma City where Jun has joined the staff of KA\TV (7401 N. Kalby), 
JERRY HIGGINS, who is a member ol Ford Motor Company's Dealer Development Division, xvas in St. Louis revitalizing a Ford agency. Jerry-covers the area west of the Missbsippi from his home base in Kansas City, where he lives with his ^vifc and three children. Also with Ford in Chicago is JIM WALL.ACE — another dealer developer. According to Jerr>-, JIM GWINNER is in the oil capital of the worid, Tulsa, (right, BILL AVAR­REN?) with .American .Airlines. 
Wc wish to express our sinccrest s>'mpathy to PETER CONLEY on tlie death of his father, MAURICE B. CONLEY, A.B. '28, who passed away December 20. 
Periodically the Alumni Association sends us address clianges for Class members who have moved or been transferred. Often the local alumni clubs unintentionally overlook these newly located alumni 
REYNOLDS Aluminum Prize design for 1963 is viewed (from left) by Frank Montana, ardutccturc head; Tom McHu^ wiimer from Leominster, Mass.; Paul Jcrncgan, Northern Indiana A.I.A. president; and George Voris, Reynolds divisional manager, whose finn awards prizes at N.D. and other schools for the best original design of an aluminum biulding detail. 
so from time to time I will include a list of the new addresses. Perhaps this will also prompt those involved to write a short note for our column. So here's hoping: PAUL REYNOLDS c/o General Delivery, Anchorage, Alaska — this really makes my imagination run wild. Paul is either building highways and bridges or trapping mink — I know there is very little football along the ALCAN. JOHN STUHLDREHER from Pittsburgh to 475 .Alcatraz Avenue, Oakland, California; he was never in trouble at N. D. D.AN DEVINE from Romeo, Michigan, to I6I2I Lauderdale, Birming­ham, Michigan. JIM EUSTERMANN from New Haven, Conn. (Yale Medical School) to 619 4th St., S. W. Rocliestcr, Minn. — could be the Mayo Clinic? DENNY RYAN from Tulsa to 9308 Essex Court, Oklahoma 20. Okla. — golf or oil? TOM ABRAMS to I9I6 Broadway. Grand Island, New York. GEORGE DAKOSKE to 23055 Gar>lne, St. Clair Shores, ^lichigan — practicing medicine? BRUCE BROWN. 5670B Dovekic, Ewa Beach, Oahu, Hawaii. DICK PRATHER, 1252 Mercedes Ave., Oriando, Florida. REV. JOHN RAUB, 667 Woodbrook. Cuyalioga Falls, Ohio. WARREN KEL­LIHER, 61B Elizabeth Road, Hampton, Va. 
Well, the end of the line for this time — until TOMORROW, kindest regards. 
From the Alumni Oflice; Rev. JOHN RAUB was ordained a priest of the Youngstown (Ohio) Catholic Diocese. Father Raub just completed his theological studies at Mt. St. Mary of the West Seminar>- at Norwood. Lt. FRANK J. PHEI.AN has been appointed an infantr>' officer in the Regular Army. Prior to en­tering the service in 1938, Frank did graduate work at St. Lawrence U. He and his wiic Gayle live in Garden Terrace, N.J. HENRY S. DIXON received his Bachelor of Laws degree from John Marshall Law Scliool in Fcbruar>-. ARON KUPPERMAN is now a full pro­fessor at the University of Illinois. THOMAS J. ARNOLD recently joined the .American Industrial Leasing Co. as credit and operational manager for the Middle West Division. He will be in their Chicago office. Tom attended Georgetown Law ScIiool after leaving N.D. Thomas 
J. Roemer, St. Joseph County (Ind.) prosecutor-elect, announced the appointment of EDWARD N. KALAMAROS to his staff. Ed is married \vith two children. Also married with two children, JOSEPH B. TIERNEY has been named public re­lations manager for the Bendbc Corp. in South Bend and Mishawaka. , 
JAMES ^V. PRICE, livjig in Cleveland, is work­ing on his Master's degree at Kent State U. He is teacliing slow learning children in East Cleveland. Last summer Jim traveled west for a vacation and visited the World's Fair. By chance, he ran into RON FRANCIS after a Mass at St. James Cathedral in Seattle. Ron is living tn Seattle after being transferred by his company. 
1957 
John P. McMeel 
30 £. 42nd St. New York 17, N.Y. 
Received a wonderful letter from LARRY COOKE who is presently located in that "Paradise" we call Okinawa. Larry reports that he now has his ^LD. plus a beautiful young lady whom he now calls Mrs. Cooke and is expecting an August ar­rival of a little "Cooke." He certainly has been a busy "Chef.** . . . Larr." reports that BILL "DING DONG" BELL has been au-arded a Na­tional Institute of Health Fellowship and did Cancer Research in Bcthesda after completing his 2nd year at Georgetown Med. He has since been initi­ated into Phi Beta Kappa and ^vill receive his 
M.D. and possibly a Ph.D. simultaneously this spring. Larr^- also reports that Bill has turned into quite a hand with the young ladies of Washington. .. . Along with Larry in Okinawa is JOHN SEIDENSTICKER, ^vho, after graduating from med school at Western Reserv*e and interning at Cincitmati General, is commanding officer of the Marine Dispensary. Wedding bells will ring for John upon his return to the States la August. . . . Also in Okinawa are JERRY WETZEL and his wife Mickey and their Rve children. Jerry is a "regular*' and a captain in the Army. . . . Wort! has it that BERNIE LYONS and his wife Joan and their family arc headed for Okina^va for a two-year stint of duty. Bernte b a "jet jockey" in the Air Force. Other N.D. representatives arc Lt. and Mrs. ED BANKS. Ed a of the Class of '58. . . . RENO MASINI is in the architectural business for himself now and has just opened his own office. 

.. . If you are in the Franklin Park or Chicago area look Reno up. . . . JIM MORRISON' reports that he is now the assistant chief accountant for the Climax Molybdenum Co. Jim and his wife Helen arc liWng in Leadville, Colo., and have a fi\*c-year-old son — James E. III. Jim goes on to tell us that he received a note from JOHN" TRECK&fAN and his wife Rita announcing the birth of their fourth — Timothy Joseph. Young Tim will have to go it alone, for the other three arc coeds. . . . Jim is anxious to hear anything regarding BOB EPPINK. Can anybody help ? JOHN HAMMETT ^*-as in New York one week end and by the time this is published wc should be roommates. . . . John is in the FBI and is pres­ently located in Washington, D.C. His transfer to New York is effective May 11. Word has it that our illustrious classmate, MR. K. J. PHELAN^ is planning to follow the lead of "DIXIE" LEWIS come this May and take a young lady from Chi­cago as his life's partner. Do not have the complete story, and at present the young lady will have to be called **Miss X." But my sources are reliable, so it looks like we lose another. . . . JOE RINK was in the city and he, JACK CASEY and I got together for breakfast. . . . He closed his million-dollar deal and flew back to Chicago that evening to attend the Blackhawk-Rcd Wings play-offs with our illustrious president, DONALD BARR. . . . BILL McGUIRE is down Philadelphia way as a system anal^-st for Merck & Co. Bill reports that he has seen PHIL HEIL who is located in Fayettc­ville, N. C , with the FBI. Also %vas with JIM EGGERS who is taking his resideno* at George­town Hospital in D.C. . . . DENNY BRITT Is attending Georgetown Law School. . . . MOORE McDONOUGH is living in Houston and is with Rotan, Mosle & Co., an investment firm. Moore reports that he has taken himself a wife, Yvonne, and that FRANK BROPHY, his new boss, and he went to the Mardi Gras in New Orleans and visited with that world-renowned urologist, MANNY RIVAS. . . . PIERRE LaPAYRE is in Texas City with MTC. . . . JERRY ODDO Js in Houston and is s^viftly becoming the Frank Lloyd ^V^ight of that area. . . . BILL OWENS is also in Big H and is with RBI. . . . Thanks to Moore for this in­formation. . . . TOM JACOBS is technical di­rector for Prairie States Oil and Grease Co. in Dan\ille, III. Tom and his wife arc the parents of three. . . . CHUNG ^VEH NG obtained his Ph.D. in mechanics at Rensselaer Polytechnic Inst, and is now located in Latham, N.Y. . . . FULLER McBRIDE is practicing obstetncs at St. ^far>''s Hospital in Milvvaukce as %vell as at home. He and his \viic Tarn are the parents of four interns. . . . BROTHER JOHN DAVIES is teach­ing at Vincentian Institute in Albany, N.Y. TERRY SHEA is a department manager for Scars Roebuck in Buffalo. . . . Also'in town arc PAUL 
JOHNSON and DAVE VAL.\IK. They are both teaching at Canisius. Terry reports that he hears from ROY HALLORAN who is with Scars in Chicago. BILL FOXLET is working in Omaha and SEAN CASSIDY (Terry thinks) is working In or around New York. . . . GERALD NIESEN is in Idar-Oberstcin, Germany, and is employed there by G.E. Jerry is still single. . . . JOHN ROCKNE GUINN is teaching music at the University of Detroit and is living in Ccnteriinc, ifich, . . . HENRY HENRIKSON is an officer xvith SAC and is stationed at Griffith AFB in New York. . . . Henry and his wife June are the parents of a boy and girl. WALTER NOHELTY is with the Madison Bank and Trust Company in Chicago. Walter and his wife are the parents of three girls. . . . Bette Jo Sullivan reports that her husband WILLIAM SULLIVAN received his law degree from University of Wisconsin last January and is noi\* practicing in Madison. . . . BARRY CORONA is living in Palo Alto and studying at 
Stanford for his master's. Barry has both a wife and a National Science Foundation scholarship to keep him company. . . . JACK RILEY is living in Southficld, Slich., and is an application engineer in air pollution control for American-Standard. . . . JOE NORTON is a claims examiner for All-State. Joe is living in Oak Park, III., and is the lather of two daughters. . . . DAN KELLY is a CPA in Southficld, Mich., and father of three. . . . DAVE KLOCHE is a project engineer with P&G in Cincinnati. DON FELDMAN is working in his father's dairy company and living in Cold Springs, Ky. . . . TO.\f FORTUNE is a sales representative for Federal Envelope Co. in Omaha. Tom and his wife Lucille are the parents of two daughters. . . . GREG HUSSEY has received his Ph.D. in physics from LSU, and he and his family will stay in Baton Rouge for two more years of postdoctoral research. . . . JIM KINNANE is living in Whiting, Ind., as a sales rep for Addressograph Division and is the father of three. . . . DAVE HAYS and 
EIGHT LADIES escorted to church on Palm Sunday by Monogranuncr Jim Henncssy, '51, Castlewoodj Ky., ^vere so pretty as photographed by James Keen that they took a whole front page in the Louisville Courier-Journal. Hennessy's harem includes: (from left) wife Barbara, carrying Beth, 18 months; Nancy, 5 months, carried by Jim; Kathleen, 7; Lisa, 6; Stacy, 4; Cindy, 5; and Julie, 3; seven daughters! 
his wife Zoe arc living in Reseda. Calif., where Dave is a merchandising rep for Texaco. They arc the proud parents ol three. . . . JERRY RUTHMAN is an .Air Force Captain in Hawaii. Jerry and his wife Sylvia have three children. . . . GUS GUINCO is in the grocery business in Sea Girt, N. J. He and his wife Mary are the parents of one. . . . LARRY "HOSS" HENNESSEY re­ceived his C.L.U. and is with the Union Central Life Ins. Co. He and his family, Joan and two girls and one boy, are building a home in Harahan, La. . . . JIM COUGHLIN is employed as a sales­man for Coughh'n and Co. in Denver. Jim and his wife Mary Lou have one future *'broker." . . . RON WOODS has been appointed by the Cclanese Corporation to open a new office in Minneapolis. Ron has been a rep in Chicago. Both he and BOB JURM.AN are stiH loyal to the single cause. Bob is with Birmingham Plastics in Birmingham, Mich. . . . JOHN HUM.MER is vice-president of Roman Hummer & Son, General Contractors. . . . PETE KEYES reports that he is still single and likely to remain so for quite a while. Pete is a practicing attorney in Binghamton, N.Y. FRiVNK LUTZ is winding up a two-year stint in the U.S. Army Dental Corps and will return to Wilmington, Del., and private practice. . . . ^^KE GUENTHER is living in Birmingham, Mich., and is an attorney with Ford Motor. Mike and his wife Joan are the parents of two boys. . . . RICH CLARKE is now living in Daricn, Conn., and is with Dun­ham & Smith. Rich is now assistant to the v.p. in charge of sales for the entire nation. The Clarkes have produced one future v.p. . . . ROBERT DESMOND is a resident physician in Sacramento, is married and the father of one. . . . BRADY McKAIG is a first year resident at D.C. General Hospital in psychiatry (still going through 
life alone!) . . . CHARLEY CUSSAMANO is 
taking his residency at Mt. Alto V.\ Hospital in 
Washington. . . , JOHN DODGE is a project 
leader in American Can's research lab in ifay­
wood. III. John is married and has two daughters. 
. . . RON HOLTZ is "baching" it in Dowagiac, 
Mich., where he is employed by James Heddon's 
Sons as a custowcr relations mgr. . . . EMIL 
"JACK" R.\QUE and his wife and three children 
arc living in Louisville where he is v.p. of 
O'Connor & Raque Co. . . . FR. J.ACK DUN­
NIGAN has finished a year as administrator of St. 
Helen's in Hinsdale^ N.Y., and uiJl be located 
in a city parish in Buffalo. 
LARRY BEDFORD is still single and living In Dallas where he is a rep for Warner-Lambert Pharmacy. . . . LARRY H.\MMEL received his master's from MIT and after marriage and two years of the U.S. Army v%ith the Berlin call-up thrown in for good luck he is a highway research engineer with the Washington Metropolitan Area Transportation Study. Larry is living in East Rivcrdale, Afd., and has two children. . . . LT. JAMES FLUHR is a jet instructor in Lubbock, Texas. . . . DICK PLUM is married with three children. Dick is teacher and coordinator of the Driver Instruction Program in Santa .Ana. . . . JOHN "KANSAS'^ KELLER is living in Albu­querque where he is employed by a wife, two chil­dren, and a CPA firm. . . . BILL GERARDO and hii wife are now living in LaGrange Park, 111., where Bill is an attorney with the Chief Counsel's Office of the United States Treasury Department and is busy representing Uncle Sam in tax litiga­tion. Probably sees quite a few former classmates on the other side of the fence. 
GEORGE STRAKE reports that SAM RIZZO is now living in Houston and has become a CP.A . . . 
C.S.C. DEACONS to be ordained this year from Holy Cross CoUcge, Washington, D. C, include (from left) John C. Rourke, John E. Buchalo, Lawrence E. Calboun, Cyril T. Speltz, Michael J. Hcppcn, Bernardo R. Giovannone, James Shcrcr, and Thomas Brenner. 
Notre Dame Alumntts, June^July, 1963 65 
that MOORE JfcDONOUGH is Houston*s HandbaJl Champ and in his spare time works for Rotan Moslc Securities . . - that JOE REICH is still in Colorado and fighting for his life among the hordes of young ladies . . . that he, George, was recently elected to the Board of Directors of the Houston Junior Chamber of Commerce and is still working for his father while attempting to feed Annette and tlirec "Strakers." I agree with George that the rise of Castro in Cuba and the fall of "DIXIE" LEWIS to marriage in \Trginia were the two most ncws^v'orlhy events of 1962. 

BILL THOMPSON reports that he and his wife and son arc presently stationed at Malmstrom AFB in Great Falls, Mont, Bill is now a Captain and is also keeping busy working for his master's in aerospace engineering. . . . STEVE O*D0N­NELL is married with one son and living in Franklin Park, 111. Steve is asst. sales mgr. for Magnccrt>ft Electric and is xvorking for his MBA at Roosevelt Univ. in Chicago. . . . BILL BURG is a chemical engineer with American Maize Prod­ucts Company In Hammond, Ind. He reports that JOE BLAZIN.A is a Lieutenant in the Regular Xaty and is presently stationed on Guam. . . . BOB MILLER and his wife and three cliildrcn arc liring in Michigan City, Ind., where Bob is a guidance counselor. . . . R/VY LEGLER is the owner of a string of supermarkets in Eric, Pa. So far, that is the only "string" holding him down. . . . JIM FINK is an accountant with Republic Steel in Youngstown, Ohio. . . . RICK SPAM is an English teacher at Arizona University and is the professor of three "potentials" at home. . . . JACK GOULD is an actuary- with Eamst & Eamst in Cleveland. . . . TOM a\LDERONE is a golf pro and has his own club In Warren, Ohio. . . . TERRY KILBRIDE is married with three children in Detroit. Terr>- Is a project engineer 
with Ford. He will receive Ills MBA in June. . . . JIM CUMMINGS is with the FBI and based in Jacksonville. . . . BOB PLEUS is one of the nc^vlv elected oflicers of the Central Florida X. D. Club in Orlando. . . . DICK GORMAN is married and with the -\ssoclates Investment in West Palm Beach. 
BOB LLOYD is living in Dayiona Beach where he is the administrative asst. of Daytona Motor Company. This company is owned by his father. . . . BILL LLOYD is Cadillac sales manager of the same outfit and we arc happy to report is 100% recovered from a broken neck and back sustained in a water-skiing accident In the sum­
mer of '57. Both Bob and Bill have three children apiece. 
MACK HICKS is presently a doctoral trainee in clinical psycholog>- at the University of Florida with hopes for a Ph.D. In '6i. Mack plans to Interne at ihc Univ, of Wisconsin beginning this September. He is married with t%*o children. . . . JERRY VIl'Zl UM is lii-ing in Ha>-s, Kansas, where he is general mgr. and sec-trcas. of \^t2tum's Inc. Jerr>- is married and the father of one. 
Our good friend BILL LODGE and his wife Jeanine arc living In Bcttcndorf, la., and he is a sales rep. for U.S. Rubber. Tiie%' arc the proud parents of tliree. . . . \VAYXE VERCELLOTTI is liWng in Jolict, III., with his family and is the 
v.p. of the Fricdrick Binding & Embossing Co. of Jolict. Tliey have one daughter. . . . DON STUHLDREHER is a credit analyst with Indiana National Bank and is working on his ^LB.A. at Indiana Univ. Don and Afar>- Louise have three "Debits'* on tlie ledger. . . . Don reports that he saxv both CHUCK GRACE and JOHN DURBIN in Indianapolis in Fcbruarx- and botli arc ^.ying for that top spot with Cummins Diesel. . . . FRANK QUINN* is a section leader at Lockheed Aircraft at Burbank, Cal. . . . JERRY GILVRST, his wife and two daughters arc Ii\ing in Denver. . . . D.WE FORAN and his family are residing in Littleton, Colo., Avhere be is with the ^fartin Company. . . . BOB HUETZ and his wife fiavc moved to Louisville and are living on Davidson Dr. Both are strangers to the South and would like to meet some fellow *'Nolers." 
JERRY HOLZBACH is having a milltarv wedding in May in Norfolk. . . . JI.M McGUIRE Is mar­ried and living In Belvedere, N.J, where he is employed by Celancse Plastics. . . . CONNOR HAUGH is with IBM in Poughkeepsic. . . . DICK GALLE is living in Little Falls, N.J., and he is with Kcarfott. . . . MIKE GLYNN is still single while acquiring his master's at Scton Hall. . . . BILL McGUIRE and his 'wife Nancy are living in Florham Park, N.J. . . . RON WOODS is em­ployed by Celanese Corp. . . . JULES AUGS­DORFER and his family are living in Newark where he is a project engineer for Celanese. . . . JERRY PARMER is studying for his Ph.D. in mechanical engineering at Oklahoma State Univ. 
66 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July, 1963 
"FASTEN YOUR SEAT BELTS, '43," say classmates Donald £. Degnan (left) and John T. Dun!a\y (right), here sho^vn being congratulated by Congressman Kenneth Roberts (Ala.) at the Automotive Accessories convention in New York for their roles in promoting safety belts for automobiles. Don, prexy of his oun public relations firm, and John, p.r. director for the American Scat Belt Council, arc now promoting the 20th Reunion of the Class of 1943 on June 14-16. 

. . . JIM GALEHOUSE is with Xcnox Corp. in Rocliester. . . . JOHN DAIBER is the research engineer for the Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory-in Buffalo. . . . GENE GORDON is employed as a civil engineer in Aurora, III, . . . "SKIP'* BREK­N.-\N is a chemical salesman in Baton Rouge. . . . BOB ARMDSON is a salesman for Berlin &. Jones Envelope Co. in Falrlawn, N.J. . . . WARREN ASHB.AUGH is with Connecticut ^futual Life and is living in Deerfield, III. . . . JACK CRUTCHER is living in Washington, D.C., wlicre he is doing African research for the Slate Dept. .. . I think Jack leads in the "Offspring Sweepstakes" with No. 5 to his credit. . . . TOM.MY YURCHAK obtained both a medical degree and a wife In '63. Tommy is doing army duty in Korea. . . . PAT LOG.-lS' expects his medical degree early In '&t; Pat is living in Indianapolis. . . . BUD FREIDHEIM is doing graduate work in Pittsburgh. . . . TOM KRISTOPEIT has finished his graduate work at Harvard and is working in Cambridge. . . . DR. 
UNRESTRICTED $25,000 is accepted for the University by Father Joyce, executive \-ice-president, from Gulf Oil Corp. representatives L. A. Pclletier, Indianapolis area sales manager (center), and Edward 
L. Butcher of the Gulf Education Committee, as part of a nationwide Gulf Oil prc^^ram. 
PAUL KROPP and his wife arc not in the P&G 
family. Paul is a researcher for P&G and has had 
Sunday articles of his work published. . . . BOB 
KILEY is doing so much and has such a list of 
credits that I will have to spread them out over 
various issues. But he is presently at the Harvard 
Graduate School working for his Ph.D. in political 
science. He is also vice-president of the World 
Assembly of Youth, an organization which is ctur­
rently doing a substantial amount of political and 
youth \*orfc throughout the world. . . . ED 
FECHTEL has assumed the position of assistant 
adminbtrator of St. Marv"'s Hospltxd in Athens, 
Ga. 
JAMES IRVING is presently enrolled at Yale 
Univ. where he is ^vorking toifards his doctorate 
in chcm. Jim is to be married this June. . . 
He reports that he vvill be joined in the chcm. 
dept. by FATHER JOE SIMONS . . . RAY 
LESCHER v%-as ordained May 25 and will be 
serving in the Diocese of Jolict. TO.\f GUILFOILE 
is with Guilfoiic Insurance in Fond du Lac, 
Wis. . . . FATHER TOM O'BRIEN is at St. 
Norbert's Abbey in AVcst De Perc, Wis. . . . Also 
in Dc Pere is ED KWITEK. . . . 
JOHN GLENSKI is witfi Colgate-Palmolive in 
Kansas City, Mo. . . . GREG HUSSEY was last 
heard completing his Ph.D. at L.S.U. and that 
FRANK MILUE was with Texaco in Houston . . . 
GEORGE GROBLE reports that TOM HUGHES 
and his Chlcago-bom wife in town, and that 
along with DON B.\RR they made it a night in 
JOHN LATTNER'S. ^\'hile "on the town" tbcy 
saw JOHN FEELY and his wife, JOHN REIS­
TOFFER and JOHN CUSACK on the comer 
of Madison & LaSallc. GERALD GERAMI is 
operating a most successful furniture store in 
Lafayette, La. . . . JOHN KUBIAK is an asst. 
attorney general for the III. Toll Hu-y. Comm. . . . 
BILL AIADDUX is a successful defense attorney for 
the firm of Kirkland, Ellis, etc., in Chicago . . . 
PAT SHEERIN has a *'grand opening" of his 
bachelor quarters in *'OId Town" of Chicago and 
threw a party to make every married man green 
with envy . . . GENE HEDRICK has pur­
chased an interest in a ranch outside of Billings, 
Montana which is used as a boys* ranch during the 
summer months . . . ED SULLIN^VN and his fami­
ly are now living in Derby, Kansas (outside 
IVichita), where he is with U.S. Rubber . . . BILL 
LLOYD asks about JOHN BOLGER, CHUCK 
DAUGHERTY, DAVE SOLOMAN? 
It would be impossible for me to thank each 
and every one of you for sending in information 
of your activities for as you can sec the rc­
spomc was overv*-helming. Now I request one more 
favor — please rush one secretary (preferably 
single) to help me with this task. As a matter of 
fact, make it a dozen or so! 

From the Alumni OiHce: Pageant Press, Inc. gave honorable mention, with a monetary* blessing, to THOMAS A. RITMAN's, A Sound in the Forest, A professional Journalist, this vs-as his first venture into fiction. JIM JACOBY, whose father Oswald Jacoby has been conducting a mucli publicized feud vrith Charles Goren for acknowledgment as the world's 
leading bridge master. Is reported to have competed 
In trials for the Bridge Olv-mplcs. Jim is gaining 
on his dad all the time In the master point rank­
ings. 

EDWARD J. ROBINSON has been appointed college recntitins coordinator for the manufacturing staff of the Ford Motor Co. Ed and wife Rose Marie live In Dearborn, Michigan. PAUL Vf. HAWBLITZEL has a change of address for class­mates passing through Los Angeles; he now resides at IIBIB Gaicu^y Blvd. .MARTIN A. MATICH, retiring president of the Southern California (Jiaptcr of Associated General Contractors and president of the Matich Corp., has been appointed to the Con­tractors State License Board by California's Gov. Brown. He will serve a four-year term. Martin is a former mayor of Colton, Calif., where he resides with his three sons. 
Three personal notes were received from JOHN 

L. GECHMER, J.^MES B. HENEGHAN, and BURTON A. LISH to inform the Class of their doings. 
Burton wxites: "I'm back from duty in Tliailand (as of Dec '62) and now command the unit listed above (Hq & Hq Co., 1st B.G 35th Inf., APO 25, San Francisco). I'll be rotating back to the main­land the first part of July '63 and hope to visit the campus and the old haunts wltli my family. report to the Infantry officers career course at Ft. Benning, Ga., in August." 
John's wife had a boy February 8 and to quote, "Both mother and son are doing fine. The older boy (16 months) has adjusted very nicely to the arrival of his brother." 
And from Jim, a most appreciated letter to 
those of us connected with Notre Dame. .. . "I 
received my Ph.D. (biology) from Notre Dame last 
June. I am currently directing a germfrec lab­
oratory in the Department of Surgery of Louisiana 
State University School of Medicine. I also have 
teaching responsibilities in the Department of 
Physiolog>*. 
"Not only have I received two degrees from 
Notre Dame, but Our I^dy has been the center 
of my life and my family's life for many years. 
My father, George (1922) ^%-as buried from Sacred 
Heart Church in 195G. My mother and father were 
married in the Log Chapel (1934). My wife and I 
were married in Sacred Heart Church (1959) and 
our son, Jimmy, baptized there (I960), My wife, 
Helen, was Father Bernard's secretary and worked 
at Notre Dame for seven years." 
Fifth Anniversary Reunion June 14-15-16 

1958 
1st Lt. Arthur L. Roule, Jr 4645th Support Squadron, Box 197 Duluth Air Force Base Duluth 14, Minnesota 
It is with considerable sadness that wc begin this 
column with news of the death of a classmate. 
According to news received recently, MIKE 
KEENAN died February 22, 1963, from injuries 
sustained in an automobile accident near his home 
in Sanford, Florida. Mike is survived by his wife, 
Mary and their two children. I know I speak for 
all the members of the Class in offering our 
prayers and s>Tnpaihy to Mike's wife and family. 
(Ed.'s note: Art called from Duluth because he had 
discovered Mike Kecnan was a member of the 
Class of '37, but he wanted the notice to remain 
since some of you were probably familiar with 
Mike or his family.) 
Our sN-mpathy is also extended to JOHN HOGAN 
on the passing of his mother last March. A special 
ifass has been offered in memory of Mike Keenan 
and Mrs. Hogan by Father Dan O'Neill at the 
request of the Class. Please remember them both 
in your prayers. 
Before proceeding to the regular news your secretary would like to point out that he is operating from a new location as indicated by the address at the head of this column. On February 16, I was called to active duty with the Judge Advocate General's Department of the U.S. Air Force and am now serving as an /Assistant Staff Judge Ad­vocate at Headquarters, Duluth Air Defense Sector, Air Defense Command, Duluth, Minnesota. So, after several false alarms (which you may have noticed mentioned in this column) Uncle Sam finally got me, and I expect to be stationed here in Duluth for the better part of the next three years. Please make note of the new address shown above and keep those cards and letters coming in. 
Wc recently received word of the following nc^v arrivals. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. DUNN (now liv­ing at 903 So. Clinton, Oak Park, Illinois) are the proud parents of John F. HI, bom April 2, 1963, and weighing in at an even 9 pounds. JOE RICH, and wife, Marilyn, announced the arrival on December 19, 1962, of their third child — a son, David Allen. The Riches (including daughters Lizbcth .\nn and Catherine Jo) are living at 13029 Ambois Drive, Crcvc Coeur 41, Mo., where Joe is Phenol Dcpt. Supervisor at Monsanto Chem­ical. And Mr. and Mrs. JOE E.MMITE have sent word of the birth of a daughter, Eileen Marie, on December 10, 1962. The Emmites' address: Joseph 
P. Emmite, M.D.^ San Joaquin General Hosp., Cottage Number 6, French Camp, California. 
BILL CHESSON (3841 Stratford Blvd., Steuben-ville, Ohio) writes to report that he is sports di­rector for WSTV in Steubcnville, where he has been since September of 1961. Bill and his wife, Susie, are also celebrating ilic arriral of a new daughter, Lisa Patrice, born last February 28. 
This is my first cliance to report the Christmas 
TOUCHDOWN CLUB of New York drew 1,000 football people to a dinner which featured 
(l.-r.) George Vergara, '25, former mayor of New RochcUe; the Four Horsemen, Harry Stuhldreher, Don Miller, Elmer Layden and Jim Crowley, all '25; and Bill Fallon, *37. Each guest received a gold football at the dinner, held at the Astor Hotel. 
He has now returned to the U.S. to go to work. . Jim completed his studies toward a M.xV. in Busi­ness at the University of California, after a mili­
tary-type interruption in 1959-60. 
News from north of the border reveals that JOE 
FOREMAN (1592 Bathurst St., Toronto 10, Cana­
da) has taken a «-ifc, the former Gloria Jean 
Fowkes. They were wed September 9, 1962. Joe 
will graduate in June from the Univ. of Toronto 
Law School and will be associated for a year with 
the firm of Maloney & Hess of Toronto. 
Lt. J. G. JLM HOL2BACH (AROICC, Naval Air Test Center, Patuxent River, Maryland) en­tered the Na\y in 1959, through O.C.S., and spent a year in the Public Works Dept. of the Naval Weapons Plant, In Washington. Subsequently he was stationed in the Bahamas and returned to the States In June of 1962, since which time he has been at his present address as Assistant Resi­dent Officer in Charge of Construction. Jim wss married on May 4, to the former Janet Marie Smith of Norfolk, Va. He also reports that JOE BRi\DY recently finished a three-year tour with the Navy; and' that LARRY DONOVAN is sta­tioned at Fort Belvolr, Va., with the Na\y's Nuclear Power Plant. 
D.\N CASTRO sends news from Fort ^Vayne, Indiana (306 E. McKInnlc .Ave.), where he is busy raising a family (third child was expected in April) and working for the Bowmar Instrument Corp.. as a sales engineer. Dan also writes that JERRY HIPSKIND and his wife, Pcgg>-, have two boys; TERRY WARD was married last summer to the former Sarah Popp, and is employed with the insurance firm of J. Maroney and Sons in Fort AVaync; and that JOE RE^VAI remains single and is working in the family paint firm. 
DREW AMAN sends an announcement of his association with the law firm of Shaman, Wner, Shulman and Ziegler in Dayton, effective last January 1. 
JIM SMITH who has been with the J. Walter Tliompson Co., in New York for some time is now the account representative for the Liebmaim Breweries (Rhclngold Beer) which will strike a note of recognition in the hearts of thirsty East­erners. Jim, his wife and two daughters are liv­ing at 32 Baltimore St., Staten Island 8, New York. Jim requests that we inquire through this coltmia as to the whereabouts of JIM HALEY, who began with our Class in liberal arts but later switched to pre-med and therefore delayed his graduation. KEVIN SMITH is now back in New York after being released trom military duty following the reserve mobilization in the spring of 1962. 
DON FALEY has moved up from his position as a teacher-coach at East Moline (III.) High School, and is now head track and football coach at Loras College, Dubuque, lot^-a. Duniig the summers, Don runs the Fort Dodge Country Club swimming pool and he extends an invitation to whomever may be In the area to stop in for a v*isit. He also sends nc\%-5 that J.ACK COTE is living in South Bend, where he teaches in the city school systetn. Jack will complete his studies toward a master's de­gree at Indiana U. this summer. Brother Timothy (JOHN MCCARTHY) is nmv studying at the Dominican Priory in Dubuque. 
GERRY .McCABE writes from Germany, where he is stationed with the U.S. Army, expressing his regret that he will not be returning to the States in time to attend the June reunion. Gerry, who recently made Captain, has decided to make the Army his career and expects to return to the 
greetings which I received from JIM FOLEY. Jim included a note dealing with his recent ac­FOUR PROSPECTS, sons of Judge and Mis. John Mowbray, '49, of Las Vegas, Nev., and tivities. Having finally completed his academic grandsons of Romy Hanunes (LL.D. '55), interviewed by high school and collegiate 
work last year, Jim spent eight months hitch­
talent scouts: (left to right) Rev. Caesar J. Caviglia, administrator of local Bishop 
hiking through Europe, North Africa and the 
Near East carrying a rucksack for instant lodging. Gorman High; Terry Patrick, Jerry, Romy Brian and John Mowbray; and Ed Krause. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1983 67 
States next fall, after which he will be stationed at Ft. DcWns, Mass. He sends his regards to all the Lyons Hall crowd Including TOM LYNCH, FRANK McGRA^V, JOHN RUSSO. BILL Mc-KEEVER. JOHN SENG, JIM FOLEY, ct al. 
PAUL TRAINOR ts now living at 4147 Wcskan Lane, Bridtjeton. Mo., with his u-ife and three children, Michelle, Keli, and P. T., Jr. Paul is with the sales department of Dow Chemical Co., in St. Louis. 
A long letter from BL.ASE REARDON (9 West Hill Lane, Cincinnati 15) arrived in March with the following news: Blase attended grad school at Carnegie Tech following graduation from X.D. Upon receiving his M.S. in i960, he went to work for Annco Steel Corp. in Middletown, Ohio, as a Computer S>-5tems Analyst. Last June, he was mar­ried to the former Jeanmaric EUenburg, of Man­hattan\-illc College, and ihey werccxpccting their first diild in May. CHARLIE KITZ also attended Carnegie Tech and thereafter went to work for Great Lakes Steel. He has subsequently joined Ford in De:roit. Charlie and his wife. Betty, now have tivo little Kitzes. JOE GAGLIARDI and wife Kathy have two children and are living at 3 Burdsall Drive in Port Chester, N.Y. Joe is with General Foods. AL ALLEN is with A. P. Kelly Co.. municipal bond brokers in New York City. CON HUBNER and wife Judy live in .Alexandria, Va. Thc\' have one child and Con is practicing lax law. MIKE GALLAGHER was married last December to the former Noel AHcki. Mike is as­sociated with a financial house in San Francisco. DA\T MCSHANE is living in Yonngstown. Ohio, is married, and is with I.B.M. BRUCE JUNIUS is employed by Alcoa in Buffalo. TOM COOK, also in Buffalo, is vcith Westinghouse. BUD Mc-GI\''ERN and his wife are living in New York City where Bud is finishing med scliool. DAVE AYERS married the former Elizabeth Vessels last December and is now living in Englewood, Colo. PHIL FITZPATRICK is in Cincinnati, and will be married June 15. REMY FRANSEN is now-practicing law in New Orleans with the firm of Porteous & Johnson. JERRY SLATER is in Chi­cago. BUD AHEARN has decided to make the Air Force a career and is stationed in Labrador where he is managing a construction project. CLARK REARDON works for Pillsbury in Minneapolis. WARREN GINDA is married to the former Anne Ellen Jones of Tulsa, and is now living in Kansas City where he is employed by Procter & Gamble. TIM HARRIGAN and BILL BOURNE are both in New York where Tim is v\ith .A&P, and Bill works for Homblouer S: \\'ceks. MIKE CANT­WELL is with the Ohio State Highway Dept. in Columbus. BOB KOLOPUS is also in Columbus and is working for an engineering consultant firm. LARRY IRSIK is married and living in Andale, Kansas, where he is teaching, 
JIM TRINO, having completed his Navy tour, is in the randiing business in Bakersficld, Calif. Jim, his wife, and two daughters reside al 3325 Harmony Drive, Bakersficld. Also in Bakersfield arc LOU SALOMAN and BOB ANSPACH. 
Apologies arc in order to Mr. and Mrs. BUD ENRIGHT for some erroneous news published in a previous column. Bud and liis wife, Marj-, are living in Hawaii (45-307 Mealcle St., Kaneohe, Hawaii); thcv- have two sons, and Bud is employed by I.B.M. as a sales representative. All of whldi is a source of considerable joy to the Enrights. 
JOHN DRUMM writes from 737 East 9th Street, Brooklyn, reporting thai he Is nov\* an at­torney for the New York regional office of the Federal Trade Commission, having graduated from Fordham Law Sdiool last June. He also relates the following: ED KELLE is in the insurance business. JOE McCUE graduated from law school last June and is now with the F.B.I. DON MOLL is working in Dallas. JOHN McCRORY is still in the Navy, stationed at Brooklyn Naval Yard. JIM ANSBRO is now with Sperr>* Polaris on Long Island. And JIM BERNER is living in San Fran­cisco where he is attending law school. 
JOHN HIRSCHFELD was forced to suspend his practice of law in Champaign, Illinois, in order to answer a call from Uncle Sam. John (Lt.—.Army) is stationed at Ft. Holabird, Marviand, where he is an instructor in the Army Intelligence School. Last December 12, John and his wife, Rita, vvel­comed the arrival of their second child — first son — John S. Tliclr address is 6734 Boston .Ave., Baltimore, Md, John also mentioned that J.ACK KfARTZELL was wed to John's sister-in-law last summer, and that he had seen JERRY DODGE in male lead role on the Dec 27 episode of The Nurses. 
Finally, news has been rdayed to us to the efTect that: DAN BERGIN, DICK GLEASON, GEORGE NAVADEL, GARY COOPER, and ED AVAR­NICKE have all been selected for promotions (Army and Navy). BILL ISBELL is with Ramada 

68 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 
REV. GEORGE P. BENAGUA, C.S.C., '28, president of King's College, welcomed the great Tommy Loughran, former world light hea\'y^veight champ, to a spring smoker in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Fr. Bcnaglia expects to return for Class of '28's 35th Reunion. 
Inns in Phoenix; JACK LIESKE and MIKE CON­NORS have finished their Naw tours; JOE HALISKY and BOB HOULIHAN have completed their Army duty at Redstone Arsenal, Alabama. 
That docs if for this issue. How about a card from you for our next column? 
From the .Alumni Office: As your Class Secretary predicted. Uncle Sam has called him to duty. Art is being assigned to Dulutli (Minn.) Municipal Airport, following his comple­tion of the USA F course for legal officers at Lackland .AFB. Texas. Communication from Art during his stay in Texas revealed that the climate of the Glorious South left something to be desired. With a little luck, he will be able to return to the "gleaming candlelight, the sv'camorc, and the new mown hay^' for Reunion Weekend. 1st Lt. CHARLES J. KILB has entered the US.AF for a year-long pilot training (T-37 and T-38 jets) course at Williams AFB, Arizona. RAYMO.VD H. ROLWING, instructor in mathe­matics at the University of Cindnnatl, has been granted a science faculty fellowship by the National Science Foundation. Ray is the father of three daughters. Here are our own business briefs. RICHARD L. WILSON has been appointed central office ac­countant for The O'Brien Paints Corp. And with further reorganization plans for the company. 
MOST VALUABLE PLAYER Trophy, donated by New York Club alumni to honor players in future N.D.-St John's basketball games, was presented to Redman senior Freddy Edelman by Club President Ed Fitzpatrick. 
GUY E. WEISMANTEL has been named laborator)­and production manager for the entire Western Division. Guy will make his headquarters in Los Angeles. HERBERT L. dcNOURIE has joined The Trane Company's Washington, D.C., office in the government relations department. JOHN B. COON has been appointed federal representative In Missile Programs Marketing for IBM's Space Guidance Center in Owego. John joined IBM in 1957 as a technician and was named a quality engineer in I960. Presently he is working toward a M.S. in Engineering Administration at Syracuse U. He and his wife Lois live in Vestal, N.Y. Now a con­tract assistant for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, ROBERT F. DUFFY is liv­ing at 4809 Moss Place S.E., Washington 23, D.C. EDGAR W. DAY, JR., has accepted the position as a senior analytical chemist with Eli Lilly and Company's agricultural analytical development de­partment. Ed just earned hb doctorate in analytical chemlstrv- from Iowa State U. He and his wife Norma and two sons. Stephen and David, live in Indianapolis. JOHN M. MERSEREAU is a cliemist with the Naugetauk Chemical Co. in Connecticut, Married, with two children, he and wife Ellen live in Cheshire. 
The next little tidbits are from WILLIAM SHAEFER: Bill, chief urban renewal planner of City Planning Associates. Inc., Mlshawaka, now lives at 1325 Bcutter Lane, South Bend; he and his wife Sally have a daughter Lorctta, 2. and a son, Larry, bom last August. IVAN OSORIO v\-as residing in Mlshawaka but word has it that he has returned to his home in Nicaragua. STEVE DRAGOS began working for Donlon-Lofglcn, Archi­tects In Misha\\*aka sometime in April. Representing the firm's eastern diversification is PAT KANE, in BufTald, N.Y.* Pat has been to Tampa, Florida, recently and seen JOE RODRIGUEZ. Pat has been getting in skiing trips and New York City visits between trips to South Bend to complete April wedding plans. MIKE MOTTER, Liz, and Lisa live in Canton, Ohio, v%-here Mike is an architect with Firestone & Motter. BOB SCHOENE­MAN is in Kforeau Seminar>' at Notre Dame. TOM PEZZUTI is an assistant on the Notre Dame faculty. And LARRY HENDRICKS, In the Navy, is on a 6-month Mediterranean cruise for the service. 
1959 
Dennis M. Nead 6121 Robison Rd. Cincinnati, Ohio 
I wish to thank those of you who have written to me concerning their activities and any news that they may have about their fellow classmates; please continue to correspond. 
PIERRE VALCOUR MILLER — Having been called up with the National Guard, Val spent a year at Fort Sill, Oklahoma and thus will graduate from Tulane Law School this June; he plans to practice in New Orleans. His wife Adricnnc gave birth to their second child Alyson Mercedes bom this past February 1st. 
A few engagement notices: JIM SCHAAF to Miss Julie Brockmcier, JOSEPH THOMAS KENNEY to ^liss Eileen Anne Gannon, STEPHEN E. SWEENEY to Miss Patricia Ann Hopcus. 
Received a ver>' nice letter from HUGH MUR­PHY who is teacliing in Rome, Italy, and has be­come verj' much affiliated with the Notre Dame Club there. He informed me of the following class­mates who paid him a visit there. Lt. DON GILLIES, about to be discharged from tlie Navy, is married to Sandv Gill, expecting a babv. Lt. JOHN TREANOR is stationed with the military intelligence in Germany. On a tour of Europe to­gether are CHUCK MARTIN who is working for a bank In New York and ROBERT S. WILLIAMS working in Dallas. 
Lt. TERRY LAMB — Terrj- is still an Eskimo for the Army and after his disdtarge plans to tour the vrarm environs of Mexico. 
Winn and JIM RHODIGAN — They are ex­pecting or should have had by now their 3rd child. Jim is working for Chevy in Flint, and they have a new home in Fenton, Michigan. 
Lynne and JIM SUTTER and their two children, John and Mar>-, are living in Milwaukee where Jim works for Chain Belt. 
Margie and BOB JOHNSON plus two baby girls are living in Milwaukee. 
Both the JOHN MURLOCKS and the JULIO SPARICIANOS arc also living in Milwaukee — two diildren per family. 
The TONY GRAHAMS are living in Washington now that Tony is a Lt. in Army IntelligcDce; they now have two children. 

MIKE DUGAN — was married Fcbruao' 2nd 
to Carol Jean Calta at Christ the King Church in 
Omaha. Nebraska. 
MARK KESSEXICH — is attending business 
school at Wharton in Philadelphia, Pa. Upon grad­
uation Mark plans on returning to the big city. 
His parents are now residing at Del^nd, Florida, 
not far from Orlando and Daytona. 
FRANK REYNOLDS — is now an attorney with 
the Justice Department in the Chicago office of 
the antitrust division. Tlicy have a little girl 
Jeanne Marie 18 months old and 3-month-oId 
son Kevin who is already doing "push-ups,*' number 
27 is awaitintr. 
TOM HOBERG — After finishing his 3-year tour 
as radar officer on the destroyer John R. (Craig), 
Pacific Fleet, Tom has taken up his Woodrow 
Wilson Fellowship and is now at the University 
of Chicago working toward his master's degree. 
JIM DULAN — Jim is associate editor of publi­
cation in the industrial relations department of the 
American Can Company in New York. Jim shares 
an apartment with Warren Albright at 502 East 
C7th St., New York, N.Y. Jim was recently en­
gaged to Miss Kathy McNamara. 
JOHN HAYWARD reports he has survived the 
first semester at Georgetown Law school; he has a 
part-time job in Senator Cannon's oflice and this 
afTords him to learn a great deal about legislative 
process and practical politics — a sub feet of no 
little interest to John. DAVE BARRETT and JOE 
IIOGAN arc also attending Georgetown Universitv. 
JOHN PETER MORAN — is in his second 
year at Catholic University Law School; BOB COX 
i-. with the SEC, and RAY BUTTON is with one 
of the government agencies. JOE MARRONE is 
with the NaN-al Research Lab. 
BILL WHALEY — He and Ins wife Brcnda and 
son Mike live in Racine, Wisconsin, where Bill is 
the office manager at Western Printing & Lithe 
Co. in Racine. ERNIE THOMAS — was married 
in July 1962 to the former Margo Sabo and arc 
expecting their first child in April. Tlieir resident 
address is 1973 Aztec, Jackson, Mississippi. 
CHRIS FAGIN — is still in the Naw with the 
office of Na\-al Intelligence. He plans to get out 
this coming June and go to night school at George­
town. Chris married a girl from Omaha two years 
ago and now has a daughter 14 months old. 
JOHN MALONEY — lias been working with 
Adm. Rickover^s office since June '59 and at last 
report was being transferred to Shippingport, Pa. 
(the power reactor site). His four years are up in 
June. 
TERRY PLUNKETT -- is in the English dept.. 
the University of Minnesota getting a Ph.D. He is 
married and has a son. 
JOE SCHAEFER — is getting an MBA at Air 
Force expense at the U. of Detroit. Looks like 
he may stay in the Air Force. 
JOE BOLAND, JR. — at last report was work­
ing for a firm in the Chicago area. He is still a 
bachelor and enjoying it. 
From the looks of the last Naxy promotion list, 
BILL WHALEN, RALPH DANGELMAIER, and 
MICKEY AMIDON arc still in the Na\y some­
where in the world. 
JOHN KIEREIN got an MB.\ from Indiana and 
is now in the Army in New Jersey and also engaged. 
JOE HIRL — is out of the Na\->* and working for a firm in California. 
KEN HIEGEL — still in the Na\-y and is teacli­ing at the Na\*al Academy — thermodynamics no less. 
LOU MANZO — Lou is now residing at 2416 Wade Ave. in Raleigh, North Carolina — he is presently engaged and plans on getting married in the very near future. 
ROSS WILKINGSON — Last June Ross re­ceived a master of science degree in micro­biology from the University of Maryland. He just received a direct commission in the Medical Science Corps of the U.S. Na\'y as an ensign; he is sta­tioned at Na\*al Medical Research Unit number 1 in Berkeley. California. 
KEVIN HALLIGAN — married Miss Kathy Sullivan at the Saint Aloysius Church, Jersey City, New Jersey, this recent April 25th. 
Once again I have to end this bit of news with a sad message on the death of one of our classmates. THOMAS J. McINTYRE, BSC '59, died December, *62 — to the best of my knowledge, the cause was a heart attack. On behalf of the Class of '59, may I express our sincere s>'mpathy on the death of Tom to his parents and his brother Pat. 
From the Alumni Office: 
J. DUANE CONNOLLY entered the Novitiate of St. Isaac Jogucs (Jesuits) August 14, 1962, at AVemersville, Pa. REV. THOMAS N. LANGFORD, C.S.C.» was ordained in Rome, February 17, by 
LONG ISLAND Division of the New York Club held a discussion of juvenile delinquency in March at the Sky Club, Roosevelt Field. Besides Chairman Jim MacDcvitt, *35 
(not shown), principals included: (from left) Geoi^e P. Krug, '35, N.Y. Club secretary; Judge William J. Dempsey, principal speaker; Ed Fitzpatrick, '54, N.Y. Club president; and Bill Gartrcll, '54, Long Island president. 
Cardinal Cicognani, Vatican Secretary- of State. He has been a student in Rome for the last five years. On April 15, REV. EDWARD C. N.ASH, O.P., a member of the Dominican Order's Prov­ince of St. Albert the Great, was ordained to the priesthood. After spending a few days with his family, he returned to Dubuque, Iowa, for comple­tion of his studies in theology. 
GEORGE W. VANDEVENNET, JR., sent us his new address at 2801 N. Sheridan, Apt, 2418, Chica­go. George is in the Management Development Program of the Trust Dept., Tlic 1st National Bank of Chicago. A fourth year student at the Har\-ard Medical School, RICHARD SA.MPSON will intern in patholog>' at the University of Cali­fornia Hospital, Los Angeles. 
MARTIN W. McGINN has been appointed technical correspondent for the Chicago sales office of the Atlas Chemical Industries. Inc. FRANK 
O. BIEDKA, now personnel management assistant for the Naval Supply Depot, is in Great Lakes, Illinois. 
THO.MAS V. ABOWD has blazed a pretty fair trail for himself at the University of ^IicIli­gan Medical School. Tom stands academically in the top 10% of his 169-member class; he was last year's editor of the Medical School's year­book; he is president of the Victor Vaughn So­ciety (an honorary- senior student group), secretary-of the Galens Honorary Society (an uppcrclass­men's service group); and a member of Alpha Omega Alpha (an honorary* society for scholastic achievement). 
Cadet JEROME C. THIES has been named to the Superintendent's Merit List for outstanding aca­demic and militar\' achievement at the Air Force .Academy. Cadet Thies also has been selected for the position of group commander with the rank of cadet lieutenant colonel. 
1960 
John F. Geier 715 La Crosse Avenue Wilmettc, Illinois 
From the Alumni Office: NORBERT L. WIECH Is studying at Tulanc U. in the scliool of medicine along tvith classmate LINN HEARTFIELD. Norbcrt's new address is 49M Haik Dr., Apt. D., New Orleans. A new address for JEROME C. HENSLER: Kruse Motel, 1530 W. Broadway, Idaho Falls, Idaho. He is working with Westinghouse and has been transferred to the Nax-al Reactors Facility for a training pro­
gram. Jerry and Miss Loretta Ann Laco of Lake­wood, Ohio, arc planning to be married in August. We had lost contact with DONALD A. BAUM­
G.\RTNER until a few weeks ago. Don is in Har\-ard Business School, married (July 30, 1960) with the first baby due in June. DR. JOHN A. KREUZ has joined the H-Film process chemistry group at DuPont's Research and Development laboratory in Buffalo. James Roony was thrilled to write us that his son is now BROTHER .MICHAEL ROOXEV, N.S.J. He has been study­ing at St. Andrew on the Hudson, Poughkcepsie, 
N.Y. 
2d Lt. RONALD H. BL.\KE is being reassigned 
ROME — St. Patrick's Night saw J. Arthur Haley, touring director of public relations at the University, his wife Mary, and Al Bailey, '31, join the hosting staff at an open house of the N.D. Club of Rome. Decor (from left) includes one of 20 pennants sent by alumni of other universities, Hammes Bookstore calendar, Fanner's Almanac from the Maine Club's Ray Gciger, and (on desk) key to Pope John's Cadillac from NJ). alumni and Lady of the Broom statuette created by Bishop Alfred Mendez, C.S.C, of Puerto Rico. 
Notrt Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 69 
to Uttle Rock AFB following his graduation from the USAF technical training course for missile launch officers, 2d Lt. THOMAS T. SHISIttfAX was assigned to the Chemical, Biological and Radiological Agenc>- at Army Chemical Center, Md. 
1961 
Nick Palihnich 34 Dartmouth Road West Orange, N. J. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Tlic Irish football games are an exciting tradi­tion in themselves, but PAT NEE has sent us a letter informing us of plans to make the games even more cnjoj-ablc for his '61 classmates, *'Xcxt Fall our Class is going to have three reunions. One for the West, one for the Midwest, and one for the East. There will be Class gatherings after the Wisconsin game, Sept. 28 (Midwest); after the Stanford game, Oct- 26 (West); and after the Syracuse game, Nov. 28 (East). 
^'However, as an added attraction, at the Stan­ford and Syracuse games AVC are having special sections set aside so that our Class can sit to­gether. This is available to anyone in the Class who would like to cnj"oy the game in the com­panionship of his former mates, providing he is a contributing alumnus. 
*'In order to sit with the Class in either the Stanford or Syracuse game all that is necessary* is that when returning the .-\d\'ance Sale order forms to put a note inside notifying the .Athletic Department that vou u'ant to sit with the Class of *61. 
*'Remember: If you are a Contributing .\lumnus. you will receive .Advance Ticket Sales. If you want to sit with the Class during the S>Tacuse game or Stanford game, you must enclose a note with your ticket returns telling them to sit you with the Class. 
"Those not Contributing Alumni be sure to set any one of those three da>-s aside anyway and make it to the reunion after the game. There's a game close to evervonc. More information in the next ALU.MXUS." 
BRUCE R. CAMPBELL attended officers train­ing school after graduation and is now stationed on the USS Rexberg ofT the ^Vest Coast. San Diego, California. 2d Lt. CHARLES T. HEIMER­DINGER is being reassigned to the 2794th USAF dispensary at Kelly .AFB, Texas, following his graduation from the orientation course for Medical Semce Corps officers. 2d Lt. J.AMES G. COLLIXS, who received his BSCE in '62, completed the engineer officer orientation course at The Engi­neering School, Ft. Belvoir, Va. 2d Lt. JAMES 
F. MURPHV concluded an 8-weck field artillcrv­officer orientation course at Ft. Sill, Okla. Armv Pvt. CH.ARLES J. PRAWDZIK, JR., recently com­pleted a 20-week basic music course at the U.S. Army Element of the Naval School of Music in Washington, D.C. Chuck, who plays the piano, entered the Army in July, 1962. .Army Pvt. D.AN 
Y. HAGAN completed 8 weeks of advanced in­dividual armor training at Ft. Knox, Ky. Dan was a professional baseball player with the Minne­sota Twins. 
At Ohio State U.. JAMES T. FLYNN received his master of sdence on March 15, 1963. D.AVID LOUIS LERMAN went to Indiana University, earning a master's in business administrations, Dave and his wife Barbara hax'e a son Daniel, bom Aug. 10, 1962 — the same day he got his graduate degree. He is now ^vorking for RC.A, their surface communications division. The Lcnnans are li\ing in Cherry' Hill, N.J. BERNARD C. O'NEILL, JR., was appointed management analyst for the U.S. CinI Ser\-ice Commission, Nov. II, 1962. 
1962 
Tcrrcnce McCarthy 23420 Wellington Mt. dements, Mich. 
ALL MEMBERS OF THE CLASS ARE LN'­VITED AND URGED TO ATTEND THE SEC­OND ANNUAL CLASS REUNION TO BE HELD NOVEMBER 2, AFTER THE NAVY GAifE. The get-togcthcr is tentatively scheduled for the La Salic Hotel. Final plans will be announced at the ball .eatne. 
JIM KRAUSER is teaching and coaching in Bcthesda, Md. He had an undefeated season in his first year as a basketball coach. Jim sends the fol­lowing information about fellows in and around the Washington area. Members of the Class at Georgc­
70 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 
THREE IRISH SPORTS communicators of recent vintage, comparing notes on college basketball at a Gannon-Stcubcnville game in Erie, Pa., are (from left): Tom Bates, '60, Gannon sports publicity director; Bill Chesson, '58, sports director, WSTV Steubcnville, C ; and Don Criqui, then at WWYN, Erie, now 
at WSBT, South Bend. Both Bill and Don are former WSND sports directors, while Tom worked for Sports Publicity Director Charlie Callahan, '38. 
town Law School arc RUSS HOOVER, DICK MEECE, a\R L HALL, BILL HARNISCH, and JACIC FELIX. BOB BIOLCHINI is at George Washington. At Georgetown Medical School are MIKE KERR, JIM MOHS, JI.M HAIGHT, JACK STECKER and WILL McNAMARA. PAUL CROTTY passed through Washington en route to Norfolk where he's stationed with the Na\-y. Also 
a: Norfolk is PAT BOOKER and his wife. Among those who are now at Quantico or who have served there are VINCE HARTIGAN and TOM EIFF (both now in Okinawa), BOB GALDIBIM and W.\RREN MARR (both at Camp Pendleton), RUSS BE.\UPRE, JIM GMELIN, .MIKE GIACIN­TO, JOE GATTI, DUKE BE.NTLEy, CHARLIE PUGH, PHIL LORANGER, PETE and ROSS ROSSI, VI.NCE SUTENEY and CHARLEY FIEL­LA. 
.At the University of Virginia Graduate School are JI.M CREAGAX, ED R.ATHSTATTER, and PAUL RATTI, BRI.AN O'.NEILL and LOU SCHIR.4NO arc at Fordham Law. JIM ("RED STICK'*) CAREY is currently serving in the Coast Guard at Cape May, New Jersey, and is playing service basketball. ARM REO is home in New York and is working for Armour & Co. Arm plans to get married in July. .Also working for .Armour is M.AX BURNELL. Max and his wife Sue are now located in New Orleans. 
GEORGE ".MAZUK" ANDERSON is at De-Paul Law School. At Northwestern Law School are JOE DUFFY, RICH JALOVEC, and JOHN CHESTNUT. JOHN HARDY and ROGER BROWN are at Northwestern Business School. JIM FINUCONE has set up shop in a Columbia, Mo., pool hall. He attends Missouri Business School on the side. ED PFEIFFER is stationed at an .Air Force base in Texas. 
DON BOIVIX is working for Crocker-Anglo Bank in San Francisco. CARL ROESLER is em­ployed by G.E. in Fort Wa>-nc. DICK N.AAB was married in Lawton, Okla., in January. He and his wife are currently in California where Dick is serving in the Armv. Congratulations "Knobber." 
FRED SPRINGSf EEL and TO.M COLLLVS are both studying at the Univ. of Washington. TOM KLETT and P.AT DIVINE plan a July wedding in Philadelphia. Tom plans to attend the Univ. of San Francisco Law School next year. JOE BRAC­CO is currently studying law at U.S.F. 
TOM SMITH plans to attend .Albanv Medical School this fall. He'll join JIM GR.AYDOX there. DICK HUGHES and TO.M HIBBS both graduated from the Na\'y O.C.S. school in Newport. Dick is now stationed on a mine sweeper in the Atlantic and Tom's in Frisco. MIKE MURRAY, who got married in December, is now stationed in Korea with the Army. MIKE H.ARD is currently at the Univ. of Mar^'land doing grad work in physics. BOB HENRY and Paula Walsh plan a June wedding in Detroit. 
Bob Hope's recent record, "Hope in Russia" (Dccca Records), featured on one side the presen­tation of the '62 Senior Class Patriotism .Award. Chairman DICK MEECE and Class President E:\RL LINEH.AN both *'starred" on the record. 
GENE VIOLA and his wife are now living in South Bend where Gene is teaching and coadiing at St. Joe High. JOHN GILLARD is working for the Chicago Tribune. JOHN ZIMMER finished up at Notre Dame In June. Among the AB-Engi­neers who finished up in June were DENNY Mc-WILLIAMS (will attend law school in Chicago), BRIAN SHEVLIN (plans to attend law school), JIM SALMON (will work for Westinghouse in Pittsburgh), EARL LINEHAN (.Arthur Andersen & Co. in Chicago), XHKE HARRON, ED B.AR­TON (Nai-v), JOHN L.ANIGAN (Firestone in Akron), DICK BOEMER, TO.M CONNOLLY (Navy OCS), BILL BEIER, JOHN COSTELLO, GEORGE CANNON, JIM HART.M.AN, TIM FABAC and JOHN MEYER. 
WES CLARK plans to attend Upstate Medical 
Center, Syracuse, N.Y. next fall. BOB WATKIN­
SON and DAN'S BRUNE both graduated in Jan­
uary*. Bob and his wife arc In the Boston area 
where Bob is working for New England Bell. 
Dave and his wife arc living in Philadelphia until 
Dave receives his M.B.A. from Wharton. MIKE 
HART, BILL GOODWINE and BREND.A.N Mc-
CRANE finished their first year at Wharton. 
Karen and ED LARKIN are living in Merrit 
Island, Florida, where Ed is stationed with the 
.Army. CHARLIE SUTFZER is currently in flight 
training for the Na\y at Pensacola. BUCKY 
O'CONNOR is ser\"Ing in the Army for six months; 
he's stationed near Louisville, Ky. CARL HOUCK 
is in the Na\-y C. E. Corps at Pensacola. 
DANA H.AYES was married April 20 in Chi­
cago. Dana and his w*Ife Maureen arc currently 
JERSEY SHORE — Universal Notre Dame  Conmnmion Sunday was observed last winter 

by Shoremen with a Mass and breakfast in Asbury Park, N.J, Principals of the initial meeting (l.-r.) were: Joseph P. Ryan, chairman; Rev. Paul J. Kane, Club chaplain; Brother Bernard, guest speaker; and Geo^e A. Bariscillo, Jr., Club president. 
living in "Chi" town. LARRY McGRAW finished his first year at Den%-cr U. Law School. LUD GARTNER is currently at Har\*ard Law SchooL GERRY NICHOLS is finishing up at Purdue's School of Industrial Management. CHUCK SLO­DEK is working for All State in Dallas. 
JOHN SHUFF finished up hb Coast Guard duty and is now working for Haskin & Sells in Cin­cinnati. DICK DYNIEWICZ is working for Arthur Young & Co. in St. Louis. BOB POWRIE is with Procter & Gamble in Cincinnati. TOM SHIPP is planning to get married this summer and rumor has it that BILL OTTEX is also making wedding plans. BERNIE LALOR is continuing graduate work in historv- at Notre Dame. JACK KILLIB.\ and PAUL SCHELLHAMMER are both doing well at Cornell Med School. GREG WEISMANTEL is finishing his first year at Suffolk Law School in Boston. BARRY' M.\HER is also in Boston attending B.C. Law School. 

Members of the Class who finished their firrt year at the Notre Dame Law School are: JIM BARRETT, BILL BISH, MIKE BISHKO, DICK ! CATE.\ACCI, DAVE COUSTANTINO, ED DEN DOOVEN, MIKE FORRAR, PAUL KUSBACH, i JOHN LAMO.NX LEONARD .McCUE, JOHN MC­QUILLAN, ED OSOWSKI, FRANK RIEBENACK, ! ALL SELL, DENNY STEROSKY, MIKE SULLI­VAN, FRED WAGNER, STEVE WEIDNER and JIM FLYNN. Those who were in the combination law program and who have recently finished their 
I 
second vear are: RON FAKLAR, BILL FL^V­HERTY,' BOB HANLON, JACK JIGANTI, TOM KERN, JOE McDONALD, JIM MERCURIC, JOHN ROMMEL, HURLEY SMITH, MIKE (P.) SULLIVAN, GERRY VAIRO and JI.M ZMIG­ROCKI. 
LEE FLEMING is an Ensign assigned to the 
U.S.S. Franklin D. Roosevelt. TREY HEEKIN is currently at the U. of Cincinnati Law School. —Earl Linehan From the .-Mumni Ofiicc: 

f 
WILLIAM C. WEINSHEI.MER sent us a post­card to inform his Class of his new Chicago address: 2400 Lakeview, Apt. 2702. And a much 
longer communique from CH.ARLIE M. SWITZER, JR. . . . *'CurrcnlIy I am in the Naval Air Train­ing Command learning the intricacies of flying Nax-y aircraft. Situated in the same locale, all in various types of military duty, arc a good many of my 1962 Notre Dame classmates, including Na\-y En­signs CHARLIE BAYER, DEAS BROWN, JACK CURTIN, AL DELP, MIKE HALEY, C.\RL HOUCK, TOM 0'.MAR.\, TOM SL,\DER, WA'i'NE THOMPSON, CHARLIE TOSE, FRED WEBER, and MIKE BERRY; Marine Corps Second Lieutenants BILL CLEARY, BRY FIELD, L^VRRY GAGGERO, and KEN KELLY; and Air Force Second Lieutenants DENNIS PATRICK MADDEN and GREG RISCH. Too. Naw duties have brought Ensigns QUINN DE.NVIR, RAY KELLY, and 

<TOM KFFTREDGE thru this area. 
BOB BARTHOLOMEW stopped in ilie office to announce tliat he and classmate DAN ZAVADA are now doing graduate work in Industrial Design at Michigan State University in East Lansing, Mich. 
JAMES L. FISCHER and CRAIG E. VOLL­H.ABER Iiave joined Tlic Tranc Co. as sales engineers, Jim working in Indianapolis and Craig 

'i in the St. Paul office. JAMES C. HIGGINS, JR. 
is employed in Washington, D.C., as an investl­'_ gator for the Department of State. In the Corps of ' Engineers for the U.S. Armv, Armv Map Ser\'ice, 
WILLIAM ALLEN QUINL.\N, JR. is a super­|visor%' procurement clerk living in Bethcsda, Marj'­tland. In July of '62 JOHN E. TAFFEE was se­lected as a trainee for the Civil Scr\'icc. John 
•Iwill be working from Indianapolis as a revenue officer. Finally, from Los Angeles. JOHN F. 
iTIDGEWELL, III, is working for the California division of highways, 
x. From the Air Force wc have the following an­.inounccmcnts: 
1 THOMAS F. NOONAX is being reassigned to 
iOImstcd AFB following his graduation from the 
^technical training course for statistical ser\'iccs [officer; JAMES E. NOWAK and NEIL J. SCALO have been commissioned second lieutenants upon 
vi graduation from Officer Training School, NeJI being reassigned to Lowrcy AFB, Colorado, and Jim to Reese AFB, Texas; Airman Tliird Class FRANK B. NASHER has completed a special course 
Tf, for medical ser\'icc specialists of the Air Force ^ Rcser\*c. 
I From the Army: 2d Lt. JAMES J. GAEDE re­cently completed a 4-wcek chemical, biological and radiological warfare course for officers at the Chemical Corps School, Ft. McCIcllan, Ala.; 2d Lts. HENRY A. SCHEYER, JR., and EDWARD 
J
^: F. AVESTHOVEN, JR. have completed the 8-weck 3 officer orientation course at the Southeastern Signal 
SCHENECTADY—Officers and guests for UND Night, celebrated April 16, included: (left to right) John D'Anicri, '53, secretary; J. F. Hurley, '37, president; Dr. John Loritsch, '36, vice-president; Fr. Louis Thornton, N.D. placement director; D. Vincent Ccrrilo, N-D. Man of the Year; LawTcncc Weiss, '37, treasurer; and Peter Jandrosc\'its, '59, general chairman of the event. 
School, Ft. Gordon. Ga.; 2d Lis. RICHARD J. Street, Riverside, California, where he's asso­CORSO and J.-VMES H. BLACK completed a 9-ciated with the firm of A (?) Scarborough. week officer orientation course at the Transporta­Fran Lyons added another member to the Lyons' tion Center, Ft. Eustis, Va., Feb. 8; 2d Lt. den last July. Kevin is associated with the New ROBERT A. NORMrVNT completed a 9-weck York firm of Bigham, Englar, Jones & Houston. officer orientation course at the Ordnance Scliool, Met NEIL COLLINS shortly before he com­.Aberdeen Proving Ground, Md.; 2d Lt. PETER pleted his 6 mo. tour of duty at Fort D«, New 
M. MALONEY completed an ll-wcek officer orien­Jersey. He was about to meet DAN &LANELLI tation course at the Engineer Center, Ft. Belvoir, 
for a gala St. Patrick's Day in N.Y.C. — shades Va. 1st Lt. RAYMOND W. BROWN, JR. was of Sweeney's green beer. 
assigned to Headquarters, 45th Artiller\- Brigade Speaking of Dan, word has it that one of his in Arlington Heights, 111., after completing 6-month adversaries in an FTC case was a past president of basic training at Fort Bliss. Tex. 

the ABA. Wc trust that we need not mention the victor's name. Suffice it to say that-.his room­mate, TIM GALVIN, was married last summer to 1962 Karen ^^11kc and is now clerking in Indianapolis. Only The COX in a Washington wheel, Bob still 
Paul K. Rooney 

manages to meet Dan Manelli, DICK AVILBUR 700 Victory Boulevard and the rest of the Notre Dame Washington set Staten Island 1, N.Y. for lunch once a week. 
Old man Mx\NDYCK will Join the FBI soon; 

Overheard long distance from JIM GOETHALS sooner than that he'll be joined in what no Man-that Professor Rollison suffered a heart attack. dyck can put asunder. Know that wc all wish the Professor a speedy Having wended his way (at long last) from the recovery. Good luck to Tom Shaffer '61 who, I Wichita Gocthals wedding, FELIX M.ACISZEWSKI understand, has assumed the role of "magister" is pursuing graduate work in Colorado. for the remainder of Trusts and Estates. Meanwhile, back in the badlands of Kentucky, 
Jim and Sophie arc located in Stickncy (Stlnkny. HERMAN YOPP of Paducah fame is compledng according to J.G.), Illinois where he is engaged his last year of law school at the U. of Kentucky. In the field of accountancy and Sophie is a'counting He and Lois were married last September. the days before the June arrival of their expected And so were Marge and I tmtll Uncle Sam 
heir. Interrupted the honeymoon, offering In its stead 
Missing in action — BOB VEVERKA (Minne­a 6 mo. tour of his own with all expenses paid. sota's draftee of the month) skipped Fort Leonard No^^^ I'm back with Simpson Thachcr & Bartlctt, Wood without leaving a fon^'arding address. awaiting an heir, a parent in .August. 
DAVE SCYOC, on the other hand, reports his That's all for the hearsay. Say what you hear address as The Mile Square Bldg., 4333 Orange and send it along. 
FORMICA REUNION of sales management executives took place at the firm's recent national sales convention in Cincinnati among (l.-r.) John L. Hagstrom, industrial products marketing manager; Robert E. Flannery, manager of the Milwaukee district office; Edward L. Dugan, industrial sales specialist in New York; and Thomas K. O^Bricn, industrial sales specialist in Philadelphia. Formica Corp. sponsors the popular "Alumni Fun'' quiz show on tele^dsion, in which a team from the University recently took part. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1963 71 
Miss Marie K. La'^rsnce Box 625 Notre Dane, Indiana 
Office of the President of The University of Notre Dame Alumni Association 
Dear Chosen Alumnus: 

Initially, my thanks to our outgoing President, my former tutor, William P. Mahoney, Jr., '38, presently the 
U. S. Ambassador to Ghana, for the leadership afforded our 12-man Alumni Board during the year just past. 
To outgoing Board members. Honorary President Walter L. Fleming, Jr., .'40, Maurice J. Carroll, '19, and Harry J. Mehre, '22, may I express my gratitude for their devotion and insistency to the many resultant accomplish­ments of their three-year tenure of office? 
With the addition of barristers Morton R. Goodman, '30 (Los Angeles, California), George A. Bariscillo, Jr., '44 (Asbury Park, N. J.), W. Lancaster Smith, '50 (Dallas, Texas), and e.x-educator Paul I. Fenlon, '19 (South Bend, Indiana), our Board has acquired a capable and responsible quartet to add to "your" alumni representation on campuSi 
Enough for the orchids. 

Basically, it would appear that occasionally confusion reigns as to the purpose of the very existence of the Alumni Board. Its members, meeting three times a year, represent YOU on campus during discussions with the appropriate executives of Notre Dame regarding University situations as they relate to alumni affairs. In view of this, we would appreciate hearing from fellow alumni as to tlieir questions, views, suggestions, comments or other­wise. As in the past, the contents of each sincere letter, telegram or telephone call will be carefully considered during the ensuing Board meeting with the view of discussing the matter with University administrators. This we encourage. 
From all reports, the 40th Annual Universal ND Night was a success with 192 Alumni Clubs throughout the world observing the anniversary. Alumni club activities continue to increase and expand year by year. The biggest "ND plum of the East" this year will be the Father William Corby Commemoration Centennial at Gett>'sburg scheduled for Saturday, June 29, next. This "Notre Dame Day" on the battlefield at Gettysburg, Pa., featuring a field Mass at the Peace Light at noon, is, of coui'se, the dream and personal project of Rev. Thomas J. O'Donncil, C.S.C., '41, better known for his "Man and the Moment." It has been said that had the opposing Generals of the North and South armies spent half as much time preparing for the battle as has Father O'Donnell readying for the celebration, today tliere would be little doubt — if any — as to tlie victor of the Civil War. 
It's now historj' that gifts and pledges have totaled $18,268,848.00 during the recent successful Foundation's Gifts Program. Hoivever, the striking facts are that the average alumni gift of appro.ximately $355.00 was volun­teered by nearly 16,500 alumni contributors which resulted in an unbelievable 76% of lay alumni participation for a total of some six million dollars. Congratulations and sincere thanks. 
To you who have not had the opportunity to visit the campus in recent years, the changes are many! Yes, it's true that the $8,000,000.00 Memorial Library, the three-million-dollar Computing Center, and other magnificent edifices appear like "images in the water" as one approaches the campus from the nearby fast Indiana Turnpike. The 6700 students have brought about material changes on campus, also. There have been student rebellions, the Declaration of Rights and Grievances, minor skirmishes with the authorities in South Bend, and even a mild demand to replace our esteemed President. But because of the capable Administration, each problem has been squarely met and effectively dealt with. 
In my recent travels, I have found that the most widely asked question is that of the future of Notre Dame power on the gridiron! In view of this and in behalf of the Board, I wish to state that we are in full accord with the appointment of Hugh Devore as Head Football Coach. \Ve respect his ability and admire him as a man. Perhaps Hughie can give the student body what is anticipated by many as a remedy — an interesting season this Fall! 
Hope to see you at the June class reunion. Respectfully submitted, Oliver H. Hunter, III, '43 President 







