The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
This book is not to be taken f'-^TT- the Library 

THE NOTRE DAME 
ALUMNUS 
EDWARD P. CARVILLE, LLB. '09 Reno, Nevada 
.i^^ 

Governor of District 20, Alumni Association United States District Attorney for Nevada 
JANUARY, 1936 

REV. MICHAEL J. SHEA. '04 
The composer of the music of the "Victory March," Father Michael Shea, '04, conducts the Notre Dame Band in playing it between the halves of the Southern California - Notre Dame game on November 23, 1935, at Notre Dame. Just before, Father Shea had been awarded a major Notre Dame monogram in an impressive ceremony. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, 75 The masazine is published monthly dorins the scholastic year by the Alumni Association Member o( the AaerieaB 
of the TTniversity of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. Ihe subscription piic« is $2.00 
Editor a year; the price of sinele copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 indode Alumni Council.' 
a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-^class matter January 1, 
WILUAM R. DOOLEY, "26 Member of Nat'I. Catholic 
1923. at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. All 
Managing Editor correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Ind. Alumni Fetleraliaa. Vol. XIV. January, 1936 No. 4 
Old Timers Enjoy Joyful Campus Reunion 
Three Members of First Football Team Attend; Father Shea Receives Major Monogram at S. C 
Judge Eggeman Says; "The first annual reunion of Old Timers has come and gone. It was all wo wonderful. Our dear Alma Mater was truly the host. She provided for every possible %vant and desire and overflowing with appreciation and gratitude is the heart of every Old Timer for the grand entertainment and hospital* ity extended. **Mr. E. J, Meehan, President of the Monogram Cluh, and the St. Joe Valley Club, and the Athletic Association were very instrumen­tal in making the reunion a grand success and to them our sincere thanks. "It is impossible to express in words the inward feeling of joy and delight that was all our own in reminiscing and being with the boys, on the dear old campus, who were our most intimate friends during the good old college days of more than 35 years ago.*' . . . 
With three members of Notre Dame's first football team in attend­ance, with two well-crowded days of activity and entertainment, with a close and exciting victory over South-em California, with the presentation of a major monogram to Father Michael Shea, '04, composer of the music of the "Victory March," the Old Timers' Reunion on the campus on November 22 and 23 was consid­ered an outstanding success in its first year. 
For the success of the program much credit must go to Fred Powers, '99, ("Track Team" Powers), Wor­cester, Massachusetts, who conceived the idea, to Judge John Eggeman, '00, Fort Wayne, Indiana, who was the general chairman, and to the local chairman, Ed Meehan, '20, South Bend, president of the National Asso­ciation of Notre Dame Monogram Men, who devoted a large share of his days and nights for weeks to the fur­therance of the plan. 
The administration of the Univer­sity, the Student Activities Council, the University Dining Halls, the St. Joe Valley Notre Dame club, the Ath­letic Association, and the Alumni As­

Game; Program Covers Two Full Days 
sociation were also able to contribute materially to the success of the ven­ture. 
Judge Patrick Nelson, Dubuque, Iowa, Col. Prank Fehr, Louisville, and Ed Sawkins, Detroit, were the three members of the football team of 1887, Notre Dame's first, who were present. For them and the many other Old Timers who were present the week-end got started in the Alum­ni Office on Friday, November 22, with registration and the issuance of badges and sidelines passes for the game the next day. Unofficial head­quarters for the group were estab­lished in Father John Farley's offices in Sorin Hall. 
The first official gathering of the Old Timers was at the dinner in the Dining Halls Friday evening, when they were the guests of the Univer­sity. 
Immediately afterwards the activ­ity was transferred to the Gym where a huge student pep meeting had been assembled by the Student Activities Council under the leadership of Pres­ident Thomas J. Murphy, '36, of Newport, Rhode Island. Stirring mu­sic was provided by the Band, directed by Joe Casasanta, '23, there were short speeches by the coaching staff and by some of the players, and, of course, there were many cheers. 
Frank Hering, '98, presided most happily in presenting, for short ad­dresses, some of the Old Timers to the super - enthusiastic student body. Laugh followed laugh and cheer fol­lowed cheer as the Old Timers re­lated amusing, as well as heroic, in­cidents of the by-gone days. Father 
Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, vice-president of the University, then introduced the entire group of Old Timers to the students. 
The smokei: of the St. Joe Valley club later in the same evening was a repetition of the. same enthusiasm as the Old Timers were presented to the largest of the four finely-managed and highly successful afTairs which the Club sponsored during the 1935 football season. Featured on the pro­
(Continued on Page. 117) 

Some Old Timers and Some Others at the St. Joe Valley Smoker. In the left hackcround. 
E. L. Holland and Ed Sawkins. Around the table, left to riftht. Martin Herbert. Fred 
Powers. Frank Hcrinc. Fred Steers. Judse EcBcman. Frank Hanlcy. William McNichols. 
Harry Miller. Frank McNichols. 

MRS. BRADY PRESENTS THREE RARE VOLUMES 

A rare first edition of Charles Dickens' Christmas Carol containing a letter -written by him to Charles Knight, and two volumes of Oliver Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield, the most valuable of the Goldsmith items, have been resented to the Rev. John 
F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president of the University, by Mrs. Nicholas Brady of New York Citj-. 
Mrs. Brady, winner of the Laetare medal in 1934, selected the books from the collection of the late Nicholas Brady. Dickens' Christmas Carol is dated 1843, and contains colored illustrations by John Leech. The letter, in Dickens' own hand, appears in the front of the book, and is dated December 13, 1848. 
It reads: 

My dear Knight: I shall look forward to the pleasure of dining with you on Wednesday the 27th and am truly interested in your project, I assure you. Believe me always faithfully yours, Charles Dickens. 
Sometime after this letter was writ­ten, Dickens found the book in the collection of Frederick Locker and wrote in it, "I wish I had given this book to F. Locker and Eleanor Bertha Mary Locker: Witness my hand, thirtj'-first of May, 1869." 
The bookplate of Frederick Locker is the famous touchstone of the Row­fant Library which was the most select collection in private hands in England. 
. The other two volumes are the rare first edition of Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield, printed in Salisbury in 1766 before it was printed in London. Collectors of first editions describe it as one of the most desirable of Gold­smith's works. 


CHEMICAL RESEARCH FUND IS ESTABLISHED 
Establishment of a chemical re­search fund totalling $52,000 has been announced by the Rev. John F. ,0'Hara, C.S.C, president of the Uni­versity. (See adjoining columns for additional details.) 
The Chemical Foundation of New York, through Francis P. Garvan, president, has given ten current fel­lowships for the doctorate in chem­istry at Notre Dame. The fellowships are worth §2,700 each and run for three years. Under their terms the student will receive board, room, tui­tion and laboratory fees each year. Rve fellowships will be awarded in The Notre Dame Alumnus January, 1936 

addition to the above. Father O'Hara also acknowledged a gift of $10,000 HOLLIS LECTURES from Mr. Garvan for the establish­

Christopher HoUis, noted Eng­ment of the Julius A. Nieuwland fund lish economist and writer who is for chemical and allied science re­a member of the Notre Dame fac­search. This fund has been increased ulty for 1935-36, will deliver the to $15,600 by an anonymous bene­following public lectures in Wash­faction. ington Hall on the campus after the first of the year: Research work by the Rev. J. A. January 9: Karl Marx. Nieuwland, C.S.C, member of the January 23: Disraeli. chemistry faculty at Notre Dame, February 6: Booms and Slumps. made possible the development of February 20: Charles S. Pamell. duprene, a synthetic rubber, which March 5: The Last Ten Years. recently has been placed in large March 19: Economic Nationalism. scale production. April 2: The Unitj^ of Europe. April 16: Monarchy. 
In an article published some months ago, Mr. Garvan estimated that Father Nieuwland's discoveries were 1936 and the remainder in the Fall saving rubber companies of the of 1937. United States $350,000,000 annually Another gift of $10,000 from the by keeping down the cost of natural same source will be used to purchase rubber, which must be imported from 
books for the chemistiy librarj'. In abroad. 
The President of the University Writes Another Page 
(The officers of the Aluinni Association believe that a great deal can be con­tributed to the progress of the Greater Notre Dame by acquainting alumni not only with its progress but with its needs. This contribution by the Rev. John 
F. O'Hara, C.S.C., '11, president of the University, is significant in both fields. Particularly pleasing to alumni is the splendid alimmi response to the tieeds reflected in the acknowledgement of gifts.—Ed.) 
GIFTS 
The Universitj- acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: $193,000 from the estate of the late John F. Gushing, '06, final payment on a pledge of $300,000 for the John P. Gushing Hall of Engineering. 
$27,000 from the Chemical Foundation of New York, through Francis P. Gar­van, President, for ten current Ph.D. fellowships in Chemistry and allied sciences, five of these fellowships to begin in September, 1936, 
and five in 1937, each of them to represent $900 a year per student for three years each; 
$10,000 from the Chemical Foundation of New York, through Francis P. Gar­van, President, for books in chemistry and allied sciences, half of this sum to be available in the scholastic year, 1936-37, and the remainder in the scholastic year 1937-38. 
$500 from John C. Tully, '11, for the purchase of equipment for the high ten­sion laboratory of the department of physics. 
3 bronze plaques, from the estate of the late Most Rev. Philip R. McDevitt, D.D., Bishop of Harrisburg. 
NEEDS 
In addition to w^ants listed in the November ALUMNUS, the University calls attention to the following needs: 
An astronomical observatory, to replace the obsolete observatory dismantled in 1931 to make room for the Edward N. Hurley College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce $25,000 
Current library needs of the department of Chemistry 2,500 Current library needs of the department of Medieval Studies 2,700 Remodeling work in the Architecture Building 1,800 Teaching materials for the department of Architecture 5,500 Current fellowships in a new department (to be announced), each 1,500 
John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, President. 



The President's Page 
H APPY NEW YEAR! 

1 H E officers of the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame take this opportunity to wish its members a very happy New Year. Nor is it too late, we trust, to add the hope that the Christ­mas season has been all that we who have a Notre Dame background could ask. 
FROM these two great feasts, so closely allied, come the only thoughts I shall venture to intrude at thb artive period of the year. 
FOR those of us who have been privileged to at­tend the School of Our Lady this Christmas season has a very special significance. In the reaffirma­tion of the birth of Christ, certainly one of the greatest moments in the life of Mary, we have re­enacted for us a world event of tremendous religious and social import. This feast day marks the birth of the greatest Teacher of whom the Catholic College is so eloquent a representative today; and the birth of Christian education, of which the Cath­olic College is the key. 
NEW YEAR'S DAY is in a sense but a pro­longation, a continuation of the feast which so closely precedes it and takes much of its significance from that feast. 
1 N the life of every Notre Dame man, this season, embracing as it does the two great days, brings a spiritual renaissance in which the reborn ideals of Christianity can be appUed more fervently. And scarcely within the memory of our oldest Alumnus, has there been a greater need for the practical ap­plication of those ideals and rules of right conduct, learned at the foot of our Lady's statue, than there is today. In a world filled with false teacjieis, false doctrines, and false leaders, even the privileged ones well grounded in the teachings at Notre Dame are finding the road a very difficult one. What of those whose opportunities have never afforded them such training? 
1 T is not inappropriate to offer at this time, in conjunction with the wish for a New Year ha[ ^ in the personal sense, the hope that the year will find the phase of your.life as an Alumnus inspired by general renaissance. 
yJ F all the things that you do, few come as close to the realm of the spiritual, and as close to the fulfilment of Christian teachings, as those things which ate identified with your status as an alumnus of Notre Dame. 
THE program of the Association is designed to embrace many things, the sum of whidi is pn^ress of the highest type. 
1 OUR earnest participation will reap rich divi­dends, for you and an ever widening circle will be affected by your generous activity. 
1 NCLUDE a resolution, in your 1936 program, to be a good active alumnus. 
So, a Happy New Year! 
BERNARD J. VOLL, '17 
President of the Association 
NAME COMMIHEES FOR BIG FOOTBALL BANQUET 
Complete committees for the six­teenth annual testimonial dinner to the Notre Dame football team to be g^ven by the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley have been an­nounced by Frank J. Donovan, *28, general chairman for the affair. .The dinner will be held within the week starting January 12. 
A number of prominent athletic figures have been in\'ited to speak at the dinner, and there is every in­dication that it will i*ank with the highly successful dinners of past years. 
The late Will Rogers was the prin­cipal speaker at last year's dinner. Members of the Four Horsemen team of 1924 appeared on the program honoring the 1933 team. 
Following are the committees: Arranpcments—Tom Hickey, sr., chairman ; Frank Miles. Russell C. Kuchl, Grover J. Ma­lone, Andrew Toth. Leo Bemer. Robert E. Bondurant, Giles L. Cain. Loren J. Hess. John 
D. Fitzpatrick. Albert McGann. Frank Cough­lin. John Vocdisch. Cesare Janesheski. George Beamer, A. Boyle. John Degnan, Paul Fermis. Francis X. Finneran. Leo Fomenko. J. T. Hagerty, L. F. Hazen. George Hennion, W. D. Hinton, J. W. Kaufer, Willard J- Wagner. Francis Lavengood, Daniel Mahoney. Leo New­jnan. J. W. Niemiec, Frank Oehlhoffen. R. Rich, L. S. Rosenburg, Wm. F. Ryan, JL J. Schnur. Frank Sowa. Blaxwell Stricklcr, Rus­sell Amdt, Cillix Miller, Albert Malonsy. George Koch, George Sheehe, Robert McAuliffc. Dan Yongerman. 
Guests—^Vitus G. Jones, chairman; Paul Butler, Joe Boland, Bill Ccmey, Tom A. Con­ley, A. C. Oxiuillarti, Joseph Donahue, Edward Doran. Howard Edwards. G. A. Farabaugh. Chot Grant. Frank Hering. J. H. B. McCarthy. Clarence Manion. Ambrose Major. George L. O'Brien, James Oliver II. Pedro de Landero. Dudley Shivcly, J. M. Stephenson. George Keogan. John P. Nicholson, J. E. McCarthy. 
Finances—John E. Mclntyro. chairman : Bob Fitzsimmons. Michael Donahue. E. McErlain, Walter Loshbough, R. Floyd Searer. 
Program—Edward J. Mechan. chairman; Bernard J. Voll, James E. Armstrong. Rev. John F. O'Hara. C.S.C.: Rev. Hugh O'Don­nell, CS.C.; Joseph J. Casasanta. J. Arthur Haley, Elmer F. Layden. William F. Sheehan. 
Publicity committee—Joseph Petritz. chair­man : Edward R. Brennan. John W. Gibbons. Paul Martin. Thomas Barry, George Scheurer. James Ash. William Furcy, James R. Meehan. 
Ticket committee—Herbert E. Jones, chair­man : Irving Hurwich. Louis V. Bruggner. David Campbell, J. J. Crowley, AI Frantz. Clarence Harding. Robert E. Proctor, sr.. Rolland J. Poulin. Noonan Hartzer. Carl Kemps. Joe Nyikos. Lucas Brandon. A. H-Hugenard, Leo Zgodzinski, J. K. Qualley. John 
G. Templeton, Oscar Zoss. John W. Schindler. Alfred Abrams. John Bergan. Dillon Patterson. 
TRUSTEE SPONSORS EXHIBIT 

An idea -n-hich originated with Peter C. Reilly, Indianapolis art pa­tron and lay trustee of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, culminated in late November in an exhibition of art from Indiana Catholic schools which was presented in St. Francis Acad­emy, Lafayette. Prizes donated by Mr. Reilly were awarded for pictorial composition, sculpture, creative de­sign, craft work. St. Mary's College and Academy, Notre Dame, was one of the six schools reresented. Many other Catholic schools in the state have signified their intention of being represented next year. 
NOTRE DAME BOOKS 

TWISTED TRAILS, by Thomas A. Lahey, CS.C, '11. The Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Indiana. $1.00. 
Alumni of the class of '50 and thereabouts •nill find in the latest book by this increasingly popular boys' author several hours of capital entertainment. Even the young reader whose appetite for thrills has been over-stimulated by this Dick Tracy era cannot fail to be captivated by the adventures of fourteen-year old Jimmy Bentley, who finds himself in such enviable surroundings as a "cu­bicle" at a six-day bike race, a boys' boarding school, on the road with two kind-hearted tramps, in the magician's tent at a carnival, in the hide-out of a gang of kidnappers, and, finally, as the center of attention in an impor­tant tiial. 
These events are placed happily against a Catholic background which, while as natural and unobtrusive as 
• morning and evening prayers, yet points up the whole story and gives it a significance above mere adventure. 
THE MASTERY OF TESS. Patrick 
J. Carroll, CS.C , '11. The Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Indiana. $1.50. 
For Ireland and the Irish, as well 

as for Notre Dame and the "Irish," 
for every one, in fact, who loves a. 
fascinating story of action and super-
action, intrigue and cross-intrigue, 
this latest book by the editor of The 
Ave Maria will be of unsual interest. 
With his delightful—and character­

istic— "light-touch," Father Carroll 
tells the story of the high-spirited and 
lovable Tess of Ardagh who, having 
appointed herself "promotion man­
ager" for young Dr. Jerry Stack, 
proceeds to build up his business in 
a way all her own. 
Her business-building efforts bring 

her into conflict with "Bone-setter" 
Hogan and ^vith ghosts. They involve 
her in secret meetings, not to mention 
a rough-and-tumble fight or two and, 
of course, in a generous portion of 
romance. But in the end, the charm 
of Tess ^vins over all. 
And the charm of this book, "right 

out of the heart of Ireland," will win 
for it and for Father Carroll an in­
creasing circle of readers. 
* 

FEASTS OF OUR LADY, by Rev. James F. McElhone, CS.C, '11. Bruce, Milwaukee, §1.00. 
Our Lady will certainly be pleased 

with the blue and silver mantle and 
the immaculately white paper of this 
slender, stout-boarded, square book. 
It contains 31 soul-appealing and 

lovingly-expressed meditations, so ar­
ranged and dated for use throughout 
SOUTHERN CAL GAME BRINGS MANY ALUMNI 
The Southern California game on November 23 brought back to the campus an unusually large crowd of alumni, yvith their families and friends. These are just a few of them. 
Father John MacNamara, John "Rome" Dugan, Joe Byrne, Harold Londo, Sara Colarusso, Julian Lewis, Byron Kanaley, James A. McKee, Dan O'Connor, Fred Herbst, Henry Massman, Gene O'Toole, Joe Friske, Dick Tobin, Lou Hruby. 
Fred Wagner, Bill Cronin, Dick Halpin, Al Stepan, Mark Duncan, Jerry Jones, Leo Garland, Bill Bosler, Father Harry Ryan, Bob Cuning­ham, George Fridell, George Maypole, Clarence Kaiser. 
Lou Conroy, Sherwood Dixon, Bob Dixon, John Kanaley, Joe McNamara, Joe Clark, Father Mike Moriarity, Dutch O'Day, Gay Haas, Cy Caldwell, Dr. Richard Benkendorf, Kieman Wingerter, Father Charlie Williams, Prank Murray. 
Les Carrig, Walter Miller, Harry Miller, Jack Jaeger. 

NEW METCALFE BOOK 

The University Library is in re­ceipt of Listen, Honey! a book of verse by John C. Metcalfe, of Chicago, who was at Notre Dame from 1915 to 1922. A number of the verses first appeared in the columns of the South­toivn Economist, Chicago, beneath the heading "Wind-Blown Clouds." Others have been published from time to time in the Chicago Daily Tribune, the Chicago Daily News, the Chicago Evening Post, the Chicago Daily Journal, and various other news­papers and periodicals throughout the United States. The book was pub­lished by Foster and McDonnell, Chi­cago, in 1931. 
either October or May, or on the days on which the feasts occur. 
By divine right Our Lord belongs in any book about His Mother. Fa­ther McElhone sees to it that He is Master of the House. 
Each meditation has two practical points, limited to no particular state of life, and based on the Bible, his­tory or legend. 
The prayers are positively beauti­ful, and, best of all, most of them are ofiicial and indulgenced, taken from the Raccolta. 
For all lovers of the Blessed Virgin —priests, religious, laity, this is a precious little book. It can be used throughout the year in public or pri­vate— during October, May, on the feast days as the days and months roll along, for sodality devotions.— 
Buffalo Union and Times. 
CAMPUS ACTIVITIES 
By Jo hn J. Lechner, '37 

CONVOCATION 
With this issue of the ALUMNUS two new names are added to our mailing list, those of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, President of the United States and Carlos Peiia Homulo, dis­tinguished Manila statesman, educa­tor, and publisher. In the third special convocation ever to be held by the University, First Citizen Roosevelt, whose signing of the Independence bill gave to the Philippine Islands their autonomy, and Publisher Rom­ulo, a material factor in attaining for the Islands their political free­dom, became alumni of Notre Dame as recipients of the honorary doctor of laws degree. 
The convocation exercises moved with a deceptive smoothness — decep­tive since they belied the careful preparations which assured their suc­cess. To insure the safety of the President, Colonel E. W. Starling, head of the White House secret ser­vice, spent two days on campus fa­miliarizing himself with all details concerning the . topography of the grounds as well as investigating each nook and cranny of the gymnasium, where the convocation took place, so that there should be no spot left un­patroUed on the day of the ceremon­ies. Captain Robert B. Riordan, Uni­versity registrar, as escort Marshall to the President's motorcade, had ap­proximately 1,000 men scattered at strategic points along the Presidential right of way both to and from the campus. 
Details of transportation were han­dled by the Rev. William Carey, 
C.S.C. Over 50 cars were utilized to bring together at 2:00 p.m. in the gymnasium, the various reception committees, visiting celebrities, news­papermen, photographers, newsreel men, etc. 
The seniors looked pleased, as well as important, in their caps and gowns. They brought up the van of the aca­demic procession which progressed from the Administration building to the gymnasium. They were led by a retinue of Catholic hierarchy, includ­ing six bishops, who in turn were fol­lowed by the members of the faculty. 
After those in the academic proces­sion had been seated, the thousands present were entertained by the Uni­versity band, conducted by Professor Joseph Casasanta, and the Moreau Seminary choir, under the direction of the Rev. James W. Connerton, CS.C. 
Then without quite knowing from whence came {heir information, the crowd sensed that the Presidential party had arrived. From behind the blue curtain which served the tem­porary platform as a background came Usher Lee Moorman, of Detroit, John V. Coyne and William J. Smith, both of Chicago, and Robert T. Burke, of Louisville, leading those honored with places upon the platform. The crowd arose, but silently. Professor Casasanta lifted his baton, and to the strains of "Hail to the Chief" came Franklin Delano Roosevelt, clad in cap and gown, to join the ranks of Notre Dame men. 
The ovation for President Roosevelt lasted for a little better than five minutes. During this period some 20 photographers crowded to the plat­form to take pictures. Up above them were placed the newsreel men, who, in order to take their pictures, shone two giant reflector lights on the group. Colonel Starling shifted quiet­ly from one end of the platform to the other satisfying himself that all was in order. The band finished their rendition, "The Star-Spangled Ban­ner," Father O'Hara moved towards the rostrum—and Notre Dame's third special convocation had begun. 
THE MONTH IN BRIEF 
Lecturer of the month was Dr. Frederick Kinsman, Jr., a former Anglican bishop, now prominently identified with the Catholic Action movement .. . A noted author of reli­gious works. Dr. Kinsman delivered six lectures on religious controversy to the general student body . . . The American government classes heard Congressman Samuel B. Pettingill of Indiana speak on "Congressional Pro­cedure and Methods" . . . Clarence L. Menser, production manager of the central division of NBC spoke to members of the University radio sta­tion . . . Latest editions by Notre Dame's men of letters are Feasts of Our Lady, by the Rev. James F. Mc-Elhone, C.S.C, Reading For Writing, co-authored by the Rev. Leo Ward, C.S.C, of the English department, and John T. Frederick, Northwestern professor who commutes to the cam­pus each Tuesday to teach a class in advanced short story. The Mastery of Tess, by the Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., editor of The Ave Maria, and Twisted Trails, a book for juveniles written by a co-worker of Father Car­roll's, the Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, 
C.S.C Knute K. Rockne, Jr. went to town in the last game of the sea­son for his Miami Military school football team . . . Young Rock, play­ing at quarterback, broke loose for three touchdowns to be the major star in his team's defeat of Holly\vood high school . . . Notre Dame develops resourcefulness in acquiring spending money . . . There is a sign in Brown-son hall which reads, "Shoes Shined, 5 cents, either Black, Brown, or •ftTiite." 
MORE BRIEFS 
The University radio station is be­ginning to expand . . . The regular Monday evening faculty lecture is now being carried into the Chicago-land sector by Station WIND of Gary . . . Coupled with the area cov­ered by South Bend's WSBT-WFAM it wouldn't be long before Station Director Joe Mansfield's performers are receiving their regular allotment of fan mail. . . Speaking of fan mail, read what O. 0. Mclntyre, the widely syndicated columnist, has to say con­cerning All - American Bill Shake­speare . . . "Personal nomination for America's newest feminine heart throb (judging from letters) —the footballer, Bill Shakespeare" .. . A month or so ago Winchell was more specific, definitely linking Mike Lay-den's name with a New York deb . . . We'll wager that many a safety man, watching one of Shakespeare's boom­ing punts sail over his head felt a deep emotion, but hardly that of a heart throb . . . Count Robert Vander Straeten-Pontholz, Belgian ambassa­dor to the United States, was a vis­itor to the campus .. . He paid his respects to Notre Dame's famed chemist, the Rev. Julius A. Nieuw­land, C.S.C, who is a fellow country­man .. . A public reception to which all Belgians in the vicinity were in­vited was held for Count Straeton-Pontholz in the Law Auditorium. 
STILL MORE BRIEFS 
The convocation necessitated the shifting of the basketball double header with James Milliken V. and St. Joseph's College to the Stude­baker floor . . . Following their 45-22 defeat at the hands of the local cagers Moose Krause's St. Mary's team returned to their campus at Winona, Minn, by plane in order to take part in their school's annual re­treat . . . "The Worid Waits," the first production to be presented by the University Theatre during the current season, played to packed houses for two performances in Washington hall .. . A rare first edi­tion of Charles Dickens' Christmas Carol containing a letter written by him to Charles Knight, and two vol­umes of Oliver Goldsmith's Vicar of 
(Continued on Page 116) 

By DIRECTOR OF JOSEPH S. PETRITZ, "32 ATHLETIC PUBLimy 
ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL RECORD TO DATE 
Notre Dame, 62 ; Albion, 26 
Notre Dame, 54 ; St. Mary's, 22 
Notre Dame, 65 ; Kalamazoo, 17 
Notre Dame, 71 ; St. Joseph, 22 
Notre Dame, 58 ; James Milliken, 30 
Notre Dame, 35 ; Washington U., 27 
Notre Dame, 40 ; Northwestern, 29 
Notre Dame, 40 ; Purdue, 54 
With the foregoing record as a preface, it -would be futile to try to convince anyone, particularly the erudite alumni of Notre Dame who have heard bear stories from experts, that the Irish will be below even their own very high standard in basketball in 1935-36. 
But a look at the rest of the sched­ule, granted that Notre Dame has what it takes this year, is convincing proof that they will need all it takes. Had this been written a month ago, we would have gambled far heavier on the proteges of Coach Keogan winning their iirst seven games than we would have gambled on them to win the second seven, and still more heavily than that they would win the second and third seven. The rest of the schedule follows: 
Dec. 31—^Northwestern at Evanston Jan. 4—Minnesota at Minneapolis Jan. 10—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh 
Jan. 14—Marquette at Notre Dame Jan. 18—^Pennsylvania at Philadelphia Jan. 20—Syracuse at Syracuse 
Jan. 25—Butler at Notre Dame 
Feb. 1—St. Benedict's at Notre Dame 
Feb. 5—^Illinois at Notre Dame 
Feb. 10—^Kentucky at Notre Dame 
Feb. 14—New York U. at New York Feb. 22—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame 
Feb. 25—^Minnesota at Notre Dame Feb. 29—Butler at Indianapolis 
March 4—Ohio State at Notre Dame 
March 7—Marquette at Milwaukee 
JIarch 10—Detroit at Detroit 
MARTY PETERS 
One of the Co-Captains 
PURDUE AND N. W. 

After sailing through early-season oponents with impressive ease and meeting only comparatively mild op­position in the Washington and the Northwestern games, Notre Dame caught Purdue on the rebound from a defeat by Butler and went down in a free-scoring contest, 54-40, on De­cember 23. The defeat, of course, was the first of the season for the Irish. 
In the typical Lambert manner. Piggy Lambert, Purdue coach, pre­sented for the first time three Soph­omores who "went to town" with a vengeance and succeeded emphatical­ly in outscoring the squad of Notre Dame Sophomores in a lot of Indiana "Bre department" basketball. Ireland, Nowak and Moir led in the scoring for the Irish. 
Notre Dame led twice in the first half, but was behind at the rest per­iod, 29 to 22. After the intermission, a spurt brought Keogan's lads up to within two points of Purdue, but from that point the Lambert lads drew away to an easy victory. 
The Northwestern game, expected to be a closely-fought thriller, turned out to be anything but that. Notre Dame put on an exhibition of almost-perfect basektball in the first half, while Northv^estem was very appar­ently far below par. The Purple second stringers held N. D. even in the second half, but the Keoganites, with a big lead, were able to coast to an easy vfin. 
It's one thing to know that you have a fair to middlin' ball team yourself, but it's another tiling to know just how good the other fellow may be. In the list of opponents yet to be played are the top teams of the nation; at least they showed last year that they were the best in their re­spective sections of the country, and their sections of the country proved in intersectional combat to be tops. 
There is little doubt that Notre Dame will lose some games. It's hard at this time to name the team likely 
to turn the trick, and it is practically certain that the opposition will have to catch Keogan's lads on an off night, at the same time enjoying a "hot" spell themselves. Maybe Pur­due will do it before this copy of the ALUMNUS reaches you. Possibly the Pitt jinx, which has been broken dur­ing the past year in track, golf, cross­country, and football, will hang on in basketball. Kentucky and New York University, best teams in the country last year, may succeed in top­pling the Irish. Northwestern may improve enough to do it New Year's eve. Butler, off to a slow start be­cause several of its stars played foot­ball, will have four of last year's reg­ulars to throw at Notre Dame. Mar­quette is never a soft touch. Minne­sota still has Iron Man George Eos­coe, plenty of height, endurance, and ability; Ohio State was good enough to win easily last year; Penn and Syr­acuse are more or less unknown quantities, but they play top-notch basketball and always have. 
The schedule from here in is of the man-killing variety. Keogan's hopes for success depend largely on the best spread of material he has had in recent years. Perhaps no in­dividual will come up to the exploits of former stars. Perhaps the first team will not be as great at any one time as those great teams of 1925-27, 1931-32, and 1933-34. But Keogan this year has high class starters and high class reserves for almost every position on his team. 
Don Elser, a monogram winner last year, an all-state man at Horace Mann of Gary in the state famous for its basketball, spent about a week with the team after the end of the football season and handed in his suit. "I couldn't make that team," he said. "I'm going out for track." This was not particularly strange, for Elser, if he can master the pole vault, high jump, and javelin throw — for 
JOHNNY FORD 
The other Co-Captain 

January. 1936 
all of which he has talent — may be­come the next Olympic decathalon chamion. No, the strange thing is that Keogan gave him up without a murmur. 
To get right down to names and figures, Keogan has lost only Capt. Johnny Jordan (recently appointed director of athletics at Mount Carmel, his school of Chicago) and Joe 0'­Kane of last year's varsity. Jordan, 
FRANK WADE 

a guard, and O'Kane, a forward, were regulars throughout the season. Elser, as mentioned, has been lost to the squad voluntarily. 
Retui-ning this year are the follow­ing lettermen: Co - Captains Marty Peters, center, and Johnny Ford, for­ward; George Ireland, guard; Frank Wade, guard; and Johnny Hopkins, forward. Don Allen, monogram win­ning guard in 1933-34 who was out of school last year because of illness, is back in harness. 
Among the better returning re­serves are John Bonner at guard, and John DeMots at center, while George Wentworth, forward, is out at present with a broken finger. 
Fourteen Sophomores, however, are waging a great battle for the first five positions, and three of them have al­ready succeeded in making the grade. These Sophomores know one impor­tant essential of the game — how to get points. Last year's team was somewhat lacking in this necessary talent, although it ranks as probably the best defensive quintet in Notre Dame history. 
John Moir, forward from Niagara Falls, is teamed at forward at present with Ray Meyer, chunky Chicago Sophomore, while Paul Nowak, 6 foot 6 inch South Bend Sophomore, is holding down the pivot job with the number one varsity. The ability of all three to get points combines nice­ly with the defensive talents of Wade and Ireland. The latter two are the balance wheel of the number one varsity, which term we use because Keogan has a number two varsity which ranks right up there with the first stringers in almost every depart­ment. Ireland, incidentally, has played in every game since the first of his sophomore year, except for the lighter 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1936 Football Schedule 
Oct. 3—Carnegie Tech at Notre Dame. Oct. 10—^Washington U. at Notre Dame. Oct. 17—^W isconsin at Notre 
Dame Oct. 24—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh Oct. 31 — Ohio State at Notre 
Dame. Nov. 7—Navy at Baltimore Nov. 14—Army at New York Nov. 21—Northwestern at Notre 
Dame. Dec. 5—So. Cal at Los Angeles 

halves of the two double headers the Irish played at the outset this season. He has played in a total of 51 games for Notre Dame. Moir is essentially a sharpshooter, and this Scotch-bom lad has shown an uncanny ability to find the net which may eventually enable him to break Ed (Moose) Krause's all time record of 22 points in a single game. He scored 21 in 25 minutes of the Milliken game, and nine in slightly more than half of the Northwestern contest. Meyer is a ball hawk, a fine, aggressive defensive man, and a handy guy in scrambles under the basket. Nowak has the poise of a veteran, the quickness of a cat, and the height to control the tip­oif. 
Ireland appears to be set for a bet­ter year than ever, while Wade is a positive revelation. He has suddenly developed fire, a willingness to mix it, which, with the natural ability he showed the past two seasons, make him a hard man to oust from his high ranking job. 
The shock troops — pardon me, number 2 varsity — contain three seniors and two sophomores most of the time, with Don Allen, a junior. 
GEORGE IRELAND 

taking one of the guard posts on oc­casion. Co-Capt. Pord teams with Sharpshooter Johnny Hopkins at for­ward, and this pair with their accur­ate eyes, ability to steal the ball, and their fine passing, particularly to one another in dizzy exchanges while rac­ing basket-ward after d ball theft, make it miserable for any opposition they meet. Co-Capt. Peters is grad­ually rounding into form after a strenuous football campaign, and be has learned a new trick — swinging the ball back and forth under hand and then lettin' her go with the speed of a cannon ball any given distance to strike any given dime — if they're giving dimes. He has all his attri­butes of the past two years: a decep­tive dribble with amazing' speed of hands when shooting for two points 
JOHNNY HOPKINS 

out of a conglomeration of defenders up to the number of three, natural aggressiveness on defense and under either basket, and a lumbering swing to his stride which makes him one of the game's most colorful current stars. 
The guards on this combination are Tommy Jordan and Tommy Wuk­ovits. Jordan is the brother of last year's captain, Johnny, and if you ask us he's going to be even better than Johnny was. Johnny told us he would be, but we didn't believe it until we saw him. Wnkowits, another South Bend Sophomore, apparently knows all the tricks of the trade. 

FOOTBALL INJURY FATAL 

Tragedy again struck at the stu­dent body this year when on Novem­ber 22, just as the Southern Califor­nia pep meeting was being conducted in the Gym on the campus, Richard Sullivan, 19, of Poughkeepsie, New York, died in St. Joseph's hospital. South Bend, as the result of injuries suffered in an interhall football game on November 17. 
Dick's neck was broken when, as a member of the St. Edward's Hall team, he was tackled while carrying the ball. A sophomore in class stand­ing in the University, he had been bom in Poughkeepsie and spent all his life there with the exception of his years at Notre Dame. Burial was in Poughkeepsie, with Father Thomas 
T. McAvoy, C.S.C, '25, the official University representative. 
BUSINESS OPPORTUNITy 

PHARMACIST. Unmarried phar­macy graduate wanted. Job is in Jef­fersonville, Indiana. Write Alumni Office for details. 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
OFFICERS 
Honorary President President First Vice-President Second Vice-President Secretary-Treasurer Assistant Secretary _ 

District 1—John W. Schmdler. '09. Mishawaka, Ind. Dutrict 2—James A. Ronan,'2G, Chicaco, III. District 3—^Henry F. Bamhart, '23. Lima, Ohio Divtrict 4—^Henry Lauerman. '23. Menominee. Mich. Diitrict 5—John T. Hiseins, '23, Detroit, Mich. District 6—^AoEust G. Desch, '23, Philadelphia, Pa, District 7—Edward A. Fallon, '26, New York City District 8—Gerard Ashe, '22. Rochester. N. Y. District 9—John Robinson, '2S, Waterbury, Conn. District 10—Prank A. Reese. '25, EaleiBh, North Carolina District 12—^Hush M. Macevney. '25. Memphis, Tenn. District 13—Lawrence Hennessey. *27, Viclcsbursr. Miss. District 14^William Grady. '17, Dallas, Texas District 15—John M. Dnsan, '27. Kansas City, Mo. District 16—Sherwood Dixon, '20, Dixon, 111. District 17—George A. UcGee, '01. Kinot, No. Dakota District 18—Robert Fox. "01, Denver, Colo. District 19—^Thomas H. Heam, '15, Los Anceles, Calif. District 20—E. P. Carvillc. '09. Reno. Nevada. District 21—^Walter M. Daly, 'Oi, Portland, Ore. 
District 11—Matthew O'Brien. "31. Tampa, Fla. 
AKRON 
Joseph H. Sraker, '29. 177G-24th St.. Coy­ahoga Falls. Ohio, President. Clande H. Homing. '29, 133 N. Highland Ave.. Akron, Secretary. 
* 
ARIZONA 
James D. Barry. '97, Consolidated Bank BIdg., Tncson, President. Steven Rebeil, 
•25, 620 N. Sixth St,, Tucson. Secretary. 
ARKANSAS 
Eev. Geo. F. X. Strassner. '14, Hope. Ark., President. Burt L. Roberts. 1325 Lincoln Ave-. Little Rock. Ark.. Secretary. 
BENGAL 
RL Eev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C., '02. Dacca, Bengal, India, President. Rev. J. 
J. Henessey, C.S.C.. '02, Dacca. Bengal. India. Secretary. 
* 
BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) 
Wm. H. Downey, '28, 1615 Oak St., Niles. Mich., Prendent. Malcolm K. Hatfield. 
•29, 2305 Nilcs Av e St. Joseph, Mich, Secretary. 
BOSTON 
Jarlath (Jack) Slattery. '21, 226 L. St., So. Boston. Mass., President. James Ska­han, '31, 5 Grove St., Belmont. Mass.. Sec­retary. 
BUFFALO 
John G. Byrne. '23. 149 Monroe Dr.. Wil­liams\'illc. N.V.. President. Robert Mcascr. '34. The Amherst Bee Co.. llain & Rock Sts., Williamsville. N.Y.. Secretarj-. 
New officers -were to be elected by the BuiFalo club at a meeting in room 1509 of the Liberty Bank Building on Thursday night, December 19, accord­ing to a postcard announcement from BOB MEASER, secretary. Other im­portant business was to be transacted and announcements made as to the Christmas Formal in the Statler ball­room on December 28. 
Earlier in the month Bob sent 

 OF THE ALUMNI 
19 3 5-1936 

 Albert P. Zahm,  '83  Director 
 Bernard J. Voll,  '17  Director 
 Albert J. Galen, '96  Director 

 George N. Shuster, '15 Director 
ASSOCIATION 
 Hugh A. O'Donnell, '94 
 Fred L. Steers, '11  Janes E. Deery, •10  Don P. O'Keefe, '03 

 James E. Armstrong, '25 Director (ex-officio) Timothy P. Galvin, '16  _... William E. Dooley, '26 Director (one-year) Thomas G. Proctor, '35 
GOVERNORS 

District 22 (Foreign)—Julius Arce. '99, Bnenos Aires, Argentine, 9-A. 
along to the ALDMNUS a complete scrip of the inspiring -Army - Notre Dame radio party which the club helped to present over Station WEBR, Buffalo, on Friday evening, November 
15. The main story was made known in the December ALUMNUS, but Bob brings forth additional details. The whole program was conceived and di­rected, he says, by Al Zink, of WEBE \vith the club members and their friends joining in the Notre Dame songs. ED JENKINS and BILL MEASER represented the club as speakers and Paul Hoolihan, of the Amherst Bee, gave the advance dope on the game from the sports page angle. 
At the close of radio program the party adjourned to the Savarin Cafe in Buffalo where followed "one of the gayest, most successful Notre Dame parties ever held in Buffalo. The Savarin was jammed to capacity and all during the evening old grads re­newed acquaintances and made new ones as they visited from table to table." Flowers from the greenhouses of the father of CARLOS FRANK and a tribute by FRANK GUSHING to Notre Dame's dead were featured on the program, which was arranged by Bob Measer. Greetings were read from FATHER O'DONNELL, EL­MER LAYDEN and JIM ARM­STRONG. 
Reports from the Buffalo country says that the M e a s e r s , JOHN BYRNE and ED JENKINS were among the horde of alumni at the Ohio State game and that John Byrne, GORDON BENNETT and many others were in New York for the Army game. 
December 20. 
JOHN G. BYRNE, '23, was elected president of the Notre Dame Club of Buffalo at a meeting held at 1509 Liberty Bank building on Thursday evening, December 19. Mr. Byrne succeeds ROBERT MOORE as pres­ident. 
Other officers elected includ e GEORGE DOYLE, vice president, and ROBERT MEASER, secretarj­and CARLOS PRANK, treasurer, both reinstated in their respective offices. 
The new board of governors in­clude PAUL HOEFFLER, HENRY 
L. BURNS, GORDON BENNETT, WILLIAM CASS, DR. ROBERT BURNS, RALPH ELSE, P. CASS, ROBERT MOORE and J.AY L. LEE. 
Flans for the coming year were discussed. It was decided to have a monthly meeting, with the officers in charge of the affairs. A consistent effort will be made to have interest­ing meetings, so that the 90 members of the club will trj' to attend them. 
Acting on an invitation received from the officials of Niagara Univer­sity, Niagara Falls, New York, the club is planning to have a three day retreat there early in the spring. ED HUNSTINGER, an N.D. alumnus, is head coach there. 
The next meeting of the club will be held the third week in January, with John Byrne, newly elected pres­ident, in charge. 
Five hundred enthusiastic followers of Notre Dame, alumni and friends, stormed the doors of the King Ar­thur restaurant, Buifalo, to attend the luncheon Thursday noon, Becem­ber 19, honoring Bill Shakespeare, Wayne Millner, and Fred Carideo, outstanding Notre Dame football men, and TOM CONLEY, 1930 captain, now end coach, and FATHER PAT­RICK H. DOLAN, representing the president of the University. 

John M. Maloney, president of the campus club, acted as toastmaster and interviewed the players. Father Dolan, in a splendid talk, rapped the Carnegie Foundation, saying that "Notre Dame football is based on a far nobler and far greater foundation than the Carnegie Foundation." In speaking of the cultured achievements of Notre Dame, he declared that foot­ball represented only one side of the activity which, he said, "exists to make a complete man." 
Many distinguishing Buffalonians were at the speaker's table, including 
E. M. Kain, police commissioner James W. Biggins, Dr. James H. Crowdle, graduate manager of ath­letics of Canisius College; Jay L. (BiflTy) Lee, former coach of the Uni­versity of Buffalo football team; the Rev. Celsus Wheeler, O.F.M., director of athletics at St. Bonaventure's Col­lege; Msgr. Edmund J. Britt, Robert 
T. Moore, president of the alumni, Martin Flemming, secretary to Mayor George J. Zimmerman; Tommy High­itt, well known football expert; Rev. William Martin, president of the pa­rochial school athletic association; George Van Bibber, University of Buffalo football coach; John J. Gal­lagher, director of athletics at Niag­ara University; William J. Conners, Jr.; George Lyon and Jimmy Wilson, Canisius freshman coach; John M. Maloney, sr., father of the chairman of the affair. 
Preceding the luncheon, Mr. Ma­loney entertained at a breakfast at the Buffalo Athletic Club. Among the guests were Mr. Hoeffler and Mr. Lee. 
FRANK McGUIRE and WILLIAM BERNBROCK of Aurora, Illinois, were the guests of WILLIAM A. MEASER of Williamsville this week. They are all graduates of the class of '34. 
BOB MEASER, 
Secretary. 

CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-III.) 
William L. Travis, 'il, 803 Lloyd Bldg.. Hammond, Tnd., President. Fred J. Sol-man. Jr., '28, 5752 Erie Ave., Hammond. Ind., Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of the Calu­met District met for a regular meet­ing and dinner, Wednesday, December 11, 1935, at Phil Smidt's Restaurant, Roby, Indiana. 
There were about 150 members and their friends present, and following 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
a short business meeting, complete movies of the Ohio State-Notre Dame football game were shown. Members of the local high school football teams and their coaches were very much in­terested in the films and keenly ap­preciated the opportunity of seeing them, and having the action and plays described by BILL CERNEY of the Notre Dame coaching staff. Bill did a very fine job of presenting the pic­tures and his talk was enjoyed by everyone present at the meeting. 
The committee in charge of this meeting was composed of T. P. GAL­VIN, JAMES McSHANE, and W. L. TRAVIS, for Hammond; JOHN WALLACE, Calumet City; HUGH CARROLL, Indiana Harbor; ALLEN TRAVIS, East Chicago; PAT MA­LONEY, Cro\vn Point; and CHICK B.\DER, Gary. These fellows de­serve a great deal of credit for their fine work in arranging and promoting this meeting. 
Announcement of plans for a dance to be held between the holidays, on December 27, 1935, by the Calumet Club of Notre Dame, in Gary, was made, and everyone present urged to attend. 
FRED J. SOLMAN, JR., 
Secretary. 
* 

CAPITOL DISTRICT (New York) 
Clare L. Touhey, '2e. 601-02 National Sav­ings Bank Bids., Albany, N. Y., President. Edwartl J. Bclcert, '33. 5 Lawnridge Ave.. Albany, N. Y., Secretary. 
For the second year in a row, the Christian Brothers Academy football team received the Knute Rockne Me­morial Trophy, emblematic of the Catholic football championship of the Albany diocese, at a victory dinner in the Elks Club on December 12. 
The Rockne trophy is given annual­ly by the Capitol District Notre Dame Club and CLARE L. TOUHEY, Al­bany attorney and president of the club, presented the silver football to Rev. John J, King, athletic director in the diocese who in turn presented it to Jack Flanigan, captain of the team. 
JIMMY CROWLEY, one of the Notre Dame Four Horsemen and coach at Fordham University, was the principal speaker. Crowley, in addition to congratulating the players of the CB.A. squad, entertained more than 400 students, parents and alum­ni with anecdotes of his football play­ing days. 
Dick Ciccolella, coach of the CBA team, and Brother Brendan, director of CEA, were speakers and lauded the work of the team members. Brother Brendan also praised football as a character builder and urged all par­ents to have their boys engage in some form of sport. 
Brother Victor, provincial of Chris­tian Brothers, also was a speaker. 
Assistant District Attorney James 
J. McGuiness was toastmaster. 
A feature of the night was pre­sented by a group of students in the form of a series of skits satirizing the students, faculty and football. 
The club was represented at the dinner by the following, members: JOHN CAMPBELL, JOE CAREY. JULIUS OVERWALLE and CLARE TOUHEY. 
* 

CHICAGO 
John W. Seallan, '25. 79 EL Adams St. 
President. AI C. Stepan, '31, 365 E. HU­

nms St., Secretary. 
Joseph L. Gill, county treasurer of Cook County, was to be the chief speaker at the luncheon of the Chica­go club on December 17, according to a postcard announcement from the luncheons' chairman of the club, FAT CROWLEY. Mr. Gill was to talk on "Tax Collections in Cook County." Limcheon committeemen for Decem­ber were BYRON KANALEY and JIM BRENNAN. Chicago club lunch­eons are in the Ivory Room at Mandel Brothers' store each Tuesday. 
Here are a few notes on Chicago 
Club news: 
One of our most prominent alumni, JACK ELDER, athletic director of the Catholic Youth Organization, has just succeeded in giving Chicago a few thrills in the C.Y.O. bouts. They attracted many thousands to the Chicago Stadium and it was the big­gest indoor event of the year. 
A talk of real interest to Notre Dame men was given at one oiE our luncheons by Aubrey Devine on "Scouting Notre Dame." Yon can im­agine that he had a delicate situation to handle, which he did very beauti­fully. I always imagined Aubrey De-vine to be a "husky," but he retdly is a miniature JOE BRANDY. Devine and ROG KILEY, both All-American stars of the N. D.-Iowa game of '21, (which Iowa won) told each other of their reactions to the game. This, in­cidentally, is still the highlight of Iowa history. 
Rog Kiley is now an able attorney here in Chicago and is also doing good work in the political field. He is an alderman and succeeded in clos­ing all the "bookies" in his ward. Rog is a family man and father of two young daughters. 
EDDIE RYAN recently married Betty O'Hara, a Chicago girl, and ru­mor hath it that among the wedding presents were seven baby grand pi­anos. We don't wish you any bad luck, Eddie, but a batch of quintuplets would keep them all in use. 
• FRED SNITE is doing a good job with his father in the Local Loan Company. 
BILL SULLIVAN who played pro­fessional baseball last season with the Cincinnati Reds, returned to his winter job with Hart, Schaffner and Marz and found himself promoted to assistant sales manager. Bill is mar­
ried and father of a year old baby 
girl. 
AL STEFAN, 
Secretary. 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. K J. Hermes. '16. 1910 Oakland St., lAnnnfi:. President. J. Harvey Gauthier. '30, Bark River, Michigan, Secretary. 
* 
CENTRAL OHIO 
Baymond J. Eichenlaiib, *15, Hosier Real­ty Bids:., Columbus, Fre^dent. 
* 
CINCINNATI 
Albert CastelUni, '24. 1001 Atlas Bldg., President. Georce Auc, '33, 4335 Ridge-view Ave-, Secretary. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
ntomas E. Fersruson, •26, 37 "Windsor St, llioinpsonTille, Conn., President. Francis 
D. Ahern. '29. 1 Webster St.. Hartford. Conn., Secretary. 
* 
CLEVELAND 
Clayton Leroux. '27, 3356 t>a1e£ord Road, 
Cleveland Sets.. Ohio, President Otis 
Wndiester, '29, 2968 Ueadowbrook Blvd., 


Cleveland Heta., Ohio, Secretary. 

During the past couple of weeks we have had the pleasure of the company of CHET GRANT and TOM CON­LEY in this fair city of ours. Chet was here for the charity football game in which JOE GAVIN'S Holy Name High gridders lost to Collin-wood. It was a dam good game, but better luck next time, Joe. 
Tom Conley was in town with the pictures of the Ohio State-Notre Dame game and he spoke at the Holy Name high school football banquet. The more we see of these boys, Jim, the better we like it. 
JOHN BEGLEY is at the present time very busy promoting a dance for the Christmas holidays. 
JOE BUTLER is now out selling securities since he has learned all he can in the office. 
PAUL CASTNER has been busy with a sales meeting of the WTiite Motor salesmen all over the country. 
FRANK CELEBREZZE is fast be­coming one of the Democratic big shots in this town. 
JIM DEVITT is the proud father of another baby girl. 
TOM YARR is also the proud fa­ther of a baby girl, otherwise known as a papoose. 
The Lakeside Restaurant, run by the GRISANTIS, is fast becoming a Notre Dame hang-out. 
Dr. JOE HEIMANN has just built himself a new home. 
RALPH HELLER is now associ­ated with Post & Flagg brokerage office here in town. 
FEED JOYCE has left the Lake Shore Hotel and is very busy with plans for a new hotel here in Cleve­land. . 
If there are any good bowlers around school, drop a note to JERRY KANE. He is looking for a good instructor. 
MIKE KOKEN is busy wth his John Carroll basketball. 
DAN SAMMON has just received another 2-year appointment as as­sistant police prosecutor. 
JOHNNY VIKTORYN is setting a hot pace in medical circles around town. (.Advertisement) 
By the time this letter is printed, the Christmas Dance will be a thing of the past. CLETE SCHNEIDER is general chairman of this affair. Plans so far call for a formal break­fast-dance at Guild Hall Saturday, December 28, 10 o'clock till ? JOHNNY BELJON is furnishing the music. 
We are also planning a joint meet­
ing of the alumni and students some­
time during the holidays. JOE 
SWEENY is in charge of this. 
OTIS S. WINCHESTER, 
Secretary. 
DALLAS 
James P. Swift, '24, 1202 Southwestern Life Bids.. Dallas, President Francis A. McCulIouEh, '30, 917 First National Bank BIdff., Dallas, Secretary. 

DAYTON 
Amos Clay, '15, Union Trust Bldg., Day­ton, President Andrew A. Aman, Jr., '30, 210 Lexinston Ave., Dayton, Secretary. 

DENVER 
Robert Dick, '29, 930 Grant St, President Harry I,awrence, *29, 1951 Lawrence St , Secretary. 
* 

DETROIT 
Joseph J. Norton. '24, 325 Morton Road. President: Edward R. McMahon, ex. '30, 2291 LaMotte Ave., Secretary. 

The annual business meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit was held on Friday evening, November 29, and the foUo^ving new officers were elected: 
JOSEPH J. NORTON, '24, presi­dent; WILLIAM H. McCULLOUGH, '27, vice president; JACK F. BREEN, '32, treasurer; EDWARD McMAHON, secretary. 
The new officers will inaugurate their term of office during the Christ­mas holidays with a dinner and dance for members of the club and students who will return to their homes for the Christmas vacation. 
Joe Norton, the new president, promises the greatest year in the De­troit club's history. He is already developing new plans and a number of new activities to carry through the year of 1936. 
ED MURRAY joins the ranks of the Detroit club after a number of years on the campus as a student and an employe of the University. He is now associated ^vith the Graham Paige Motor Co. 
Members of the Detroit Club lis­tened to the broadcast of the Army-Notre Dame game in Knights of Co­lumbus clubhouse. An imexpected vis­itor was TEX RICKAED, '24, whojis now master of ceremonies at North-wood Inn, one of Detroit's finest eat­ing places. ;• • 
JOE NORTON expresses a siiM:ere desire to contact all Notre Dame'Tnen living in or near Detroit. Any'men reading this column who are not now receiving notices of the Detroit Club are asked to call, write or contact Joe as soon as possible. His address is 325 Merton Road, Phone, Town­send 7-1759. Business Address: 1025 East Forest Avenue, Phone, Columbia 4680. 
GIL SCHAEFER, '26, has been ap­pointed general chairman of the an­nual Christmas dinner and dance to be held on Thursday, December 26. Gil, who manages Walker Motor Sales, Hudson-Terraplane dealers, when he isn't promoting Notre Dame activi­ties, expects to put on an affair that will long be remembered by Notre Dame men of Detroit. 
BILL McCULLOUGH. 
DES MOINES 
James C. Shaw. '22, 307 Equitable Bide.. President P. M. Wonderlin, '29, 302 Rnbbell Bldz., Secretary. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
James D. Hayes, '17, 4612 Miirsan Drive, Chevy Chase, Md.. President J. Thomas Carver, '32, 1210 Perry St, N. E.. Wash­ington, D. C., Secretary. 
EASTERN INDIANA 
Hiomaa A. Cannon, '33, 401 Wysor Bids., Hunde, Ind., President Alvis E. Granger, ex. '31, 617 S. Jefferson St. Hartford City, Ind.. Secretary. 

• The Notre Dame club of Eastern Indiana held its regular monthly meeting December 3 at the Delaware Hotel in Muncie. A turkey dinner was enjoyed. There were 20 present including three new members from Anderson: TOM LA YELL, DOCTOR AEMINGTON and TOM ROSE. 
PAT MANION was guest speaker and gave a wonderful talk; the club members were highly gratified to have Pat, and we all hope he can attend more of our meetings. 
Final plans were made for the Christmas party. It will be a dinner dance, to be held December 28 at the Delaware Hotel in Muncie. Members are privileged to invite guests and we expect to have a good crowd and good party. 
AL GRANGER, 
• Secretary. 
* 

EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Leo R. Hclntyrc, '2S, Bethlehem, Presi­dent Ernest L. Wilhelm, '27, New Jer­sey Zinc Co., Research Dept, Fatmerton, Secretary. 
* 
ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA 
Bldiard D. Daley, '17, Erie Daily rRmes, President Itomas Barber, '24, 416 New­man St, Secretary. 

FAIRFIELD COUNTY (Connecticnt) Junes Horphr. '22. 611 Security Bide., Bridseport. Conn.. President. Joseph E. Rnsw, '32, 16E Honsh Ave., Bridgeport, Conn., Secretary. 
* 

FORT WAYNE, INDIANA Donnellr P. McDonald, '12, Peoples Trust 
* Savings Co., President. Edvirard S. Sul­livan, '24, 125 E. Suttenfield St., Secretary. 
We of the Notre Dame Club of Fort Wayne, Indiana, are quite busy at this time assisting the students who are attending the University in giving the annual Christinas dance. 
The event is scheduled for Friday evening, December 27. It will be held at the Catholic Community Center here in Fort Wayne. Noble and Don­nelly's Gold Coast orchestra will fur­nish the music. 
A wonderful spirit of cooperation is being manifested by all the mem­bers of the Club and we have every reason to believe that the affair is going to be one of the most enter­taining of the local holiday social season. 
State Senator MARTIN J. "Bruff" CLEARY is handling the advertising matter in connection with the dance and has the city pretty well placarded. Through the courtesy of Mr. Al Beck­er, a very good friend of Notre Dame, he is also using the facilities of WOWO, our local broadcasting station, to further the cause. 
President DONNELLY McDON-ALD has called a special meeting of the officers and Board of Governors for December 20. It is quite prob­able that as a result of this meeting a joint meeting of our Club and the student Club will be held prior to the dance in order that we may become better acquainted with one another. 
In my last letter I told you of CLIFF WARD'S added fatheriy re­sponsibilities. I now have the little fellow's name for you. It's Terence Joseph. 
HARRY HOGAN has been making the headlines quite regularly here of late. This time I am pleased to an­nounce that he has been made Chair­man of the American Bulgarian Ex­port Institute. I am told the purpose of the institute is to promote more trade between the United States and Bulgaria. Mr. Hogan and his wife will sail for Sofia, Bulgaria, January 18, 1936. It is expected that he will be gone about six weeks. 
C. BYRON HAYES will assume the duties of Prosecuting Attorney of Allen County, Indiana, January 1. He has served as assistant Prosecutor for the past 16 years. 
EDGAR B. WELCH was married to Miss Leatha G. Perkins at Thanks­giving time. Eddie is a partner in an Auto Sales Agency. 
FRANK METRAILER is away on a hunting trip somewhere in Arkan­sas. He will be back in town about January 1. 
PAUL SAGSTETTER is e.xpecting THOMAS GOSS and his wife for a visit during the holidays. He informs me that Tom is a classmate of his and that he is coming to Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, where he is working for the American Gypsum Company, and doing exceptionally well. 
EDWARD S. SULLIVAN, Secretary. * 

GOGEBIC RANGE (Michigan) Robert O'Callaghan, ex. *16, Gogebic Na­tional Bank, Ironvrood, President. Fran­
cis J. Vukovich, "35, Ridge St, Iron­wood, Mich., Secretary. 
* 

GRAND RAPIDS George E. Ludwig, '25, 32S Glenhaven Ave., N. W., President. Raymond J. Bo­nini, '27, 607 Atwood, N. E., Secretary. 
* 

GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN Harold L. Londo, '24, City Engineers' Of­fice, City Hall, President. Levi A. Geni­esse, '24, 510 Minahan Bldg., Secretary. 
HAMILTON, OHIO 
M. O. Bums. '86. 338 S. Second St., Presi­dent. Marc A. Fiehrer, '27, 701 Rentsdl­ler Bldg., Secretary. 
HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.) Norman Bartholomew, *15, 225 Cleveland Ave., Iron Mountain* Mich., President. Michael S. Corry, '27, 837 Terrace Ave., Marinette, Wis., Secretar>'. 
HOUSTON 
M. K Walter. '14 1702 Stuart Ave.. Hous­ton, President. Thomas F. Green Jr.. '27, Conro«, Texas, Secretary. 
INDIANAPOLIS Thomas Jones, '04, 211 E. McCarty St , President Michael E. Fox, '34. 3942 N. Penn St, Secretary. It has been some time since you have heard from Indianapolis but we have not been sleeping on the job. We are still holding our weekly lunch­eon meetings at the Board of Trade, but they are not drawing the number of men we expected. Last night the Cathedral High School football team, who tied for the city championship, was honored with a banquet attended by 400 persons. The Notre Dame Club presented each senior member of the team with an individual trophy, en­graved with his name, position and year. We hope to continue this cus­tom which was started last year by the club. We feel very confident it will help to interest more boys in Notre Dame. 
The only activity other than the above we have taken an interest in since I last wrote you was a special train to the Ohio State game and one to the Southern California game. FRANK MCCARTHY was the spon­sor of both trains and did a fine job. The service was excellent, and through the kindness of Frank, the club was allowed a share in the beer concession. The revenue from this was a big help in the purchase of the trophies we gave out last night. 
MICHAEL FOX, Secretary. 

JACKSON, MICHIGAN Bym* H. Daly. ZOT EUuy An., Fniidnt. Imttt 'Vnada. '31. 101* K. GUUOD at. Secretary. 
* 

JOLIET, ILLINOIS Bobwt Dolly. '31, 213 N. Hldorr, Fm U dent Edward H. K2nr. 301 Sobr St. Secretury. 
* 

KANSAS Albert J. GAert. '30. V. of 'WleUta. 'Widi­ita. Kansas, President Dan WaldKliUb 'M, 623 Bm St, Ottawa, Kansaa. Swrttarr. 
* 

KANSAS CITY (Musonri-Kaiuas) 
Robert TVIw. '29, 3616 Paaao BM.. Kan­saa City, Mo.. President Charlaa E. Xey­er, '29. 420 R Armoor Blvd., Kansas Cl^, Mo., Secretary. 
* 

KENTUCKY Eagen* J. Steocrle, '25, 1439 WlUoir Ave., Ixxusvllle. Presidait John Baanoa, '32. 2011 Sherwood. Louiavflle. SeerataiT. 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
p. B. Burka: '88, 307 Camp St. New Or­leuis. La.. Pteridant Cyprian A. Spori, Jr.. '28, •WUtoey-Cantial Bldg.. New Or­leans. La., Secretary. 
GYP SPORL missed the December issue deadline, but we are happy to give him to you for January: 
The writer received your card rela­tive to news for the AHJMNTJS upon his return yesterday from the Army-Notre Dame game. Had the pleasure of seeing quite a few of the boys on my trip. 
PAUL JOHNSON and HUSK GRACE were down from Kokomo. 
EDDIE LYNCH from Terre Haute was right there on the 50 yard line with a very attractive date. 
Saw big DAN CUNNINGHAM in the shufBe to get through that small gate over there in the right field bleachers. While upon the subject of the right field gate leading into the bleacher seats, (which, as yon know, are the best for football), I can't un­derstand why the powers that are connected with the Yankee stadium continue to allow such a jam to exist from year to year when taking into consideration the crowd and the gate" receipts involved in this classic. 
I had my usual visit with LOU THORTON from Birmingham who has been connected with the Guaranty Trust Company of New York for the past six years. He is looking fine and I understand he is doing quite well. 
My brother HAROLD brought the DE LA VERGNE brothers down to the station the night I left for the East. They all appear in great shape and send their regards to their friends in New York and vicinity. 
Just received advices that my cousin EDWARD reaches New Or­leans Monday from the tropics for his first vacation. 
Saw BOLAN BURKE on the street yesterday sporting a black derby and naturally he was very interested as 
All of the alumni down here regret very much that Notre Dame is not in a position to play in the Sugar Bowl game this year, but hope that we shall have them with us next year. 
December 20. Have been endeavoring for the past week to drop you a few lines. 
Outside of the dedication of the new bridge across the JGssissippi River here, things have been quite dull and, naturally, news very scarce. However, on this occasion we had the pleasure of again seeing Mr. ANGUS MCDONALD, 'OO, president of the Southern Pacific railroad, who with his road plaj'ed a large part in the successful completion of this gi­gantic construction. Sir. McDonald was one of the principal speakers at the dedication and at the banquet that night. 
For the benefit of the alumni who do not know Mr. McDonald offhand, he made the Commencement address at the University the year of Kockne's death, and has always been very close to the Universitj\ 
My cousin, EDWARD SPORL, ar­rived several weeks ago from the tropics to spend his vacation here. For the benefit of his classmates, the tropical sun has made his face redder; nevertheless he is looking splendid. 
Had the pleasure of having my first room-mate at Notre Dame, VIN­CENT HENGESBACK, spend the day with me. He stopped off here en-route from Cleveland to -Arizona. 
Since starting this letter, I have had a chat ^vith PAT BURKE over the telephone and he advises me that he had the pleasure of ha\'ing lunch with Angus McDonald on the S.S. "Dixie", which is owne d by the Southern Pacific and plies bet\veen New York and New Orleans. 
GYP SPORL, 
Secretarj'. 

LAPORTE, INDIANA 
A. Gordon Taylor, *18. 1507 Indiana Ave., President. Norman Duke, '33, 304 Niles St.. Secretary. 

LOS ANGELES 
Thomas Heam, '15, 1120 Pacific Finance Bid?., President. Douglas Daley, '30, 781 Ceres Ave., Secretary. 

MANILA 
Edumrdo Eoxas, "33, 719 Echasue, Manila, President. Leopoldo Brias, Manila. Sec­retary. 
* 

MEMPHIS 
Walter J. Fransioli, Jr., '34, 218 N. Mc­Lean Blvd., President. ITieon Dohogne, 
•27. 1072 S. Wellington St., Secretary. 
* 

MILWAUKEE 
Harold Watson. '25. 735 N. Water St, President. John E. Clander, '34. 1219 W. Vliet St, Secretary. 
MONTANA 
Earl W. Ennvn, '93. 320 Power St. Hele­na. President James B. O'Flynn. '11, Great Falls. Seretary. 

NASHVILLE 
Robert P. Williams. Jr., '29, 106 Gallatin Boad. Secretary. 

NEW JERSEY 
Thomas Purcell. '27. 32 N. 16th St. East Orange. President Raymond A. Geiger. '32. 446 Eastern Parkway, Irvington, Sec­retary. 

Our December meeting was held on December 2 and featured talks on the various activities of November. Quite a nice profit was made on our Notre Dame-Army ticket plan as well as on our Hard Times Dance and the officers of the club are well satisfied with the support they have been get­ting from members of the club. 
PETE QUINN came in for com­mendation as well as JOE NULTY, the chairman of the ticket and Hard Times Dance committee, respectively. 
PHIL HEINLE reported that the Christmas Dance is to be held at the Essex House Ball Room in Newark on December 27 and a large turnout is expected. 
The subject of scholarship fund came up and the administration now in control of the club stated definitely that its policy was to do all in its power to build up a scholarship fund this year that could not be touched for other purposes. In the past few years it has been very hard to get any money into the treasurj' that could be left there. The officers are asking the various members to contribute their dues of $2.00 to bolster up the budget for running expenses. 
TOM PURCELL explained to the club the arrangements that the New Jersey alumn i had had v.»ith the campus club and that is that the alunmi club is to underwrite all the bills of the campus club, but at the same time the alumni club is to have full say in regard to the functions the campus club runs. The campus club is to have a drawing account of $75.00 per year for incidental ex­penses and it is to have full co-opera­tion in all the affairs run by the alum­ni. This is the first time that the campus and alumni clubs have been freely united and all members of both groups feel very much elated. 
The usual turnout of old members was in evidence and we are hoping that, as the meetings progress, more and more' "members will turn out for them. 
All in all, it was a splendid meet­ing and with a bit of cash in the treasury the year of 1936 can bring what it may and the New Jersey alumni will be sure to carry through. 
RAY GEIGEH, 
Secretary. 

NEW YORK CITY 
Bdward T. llghe, '24. 32 Franklin St', N«w York City. President J. Norbert Gelson. Jr.. '26. 1201 Troy Ave.. Brooklyn. Secretary. 

DOC GELSON'S contribution was just a bit late to "make" the Decem­ber issue so we're presenting it now: 
Two hundred and fifty New York and New Jersey alumni, together with their friends travelled down to Balti­more on the special train, to see the 
N. D.-Navy game. The trip was most successful and—"si good time was had by all." 
Six box seats and two reserved seats for the Army game were dis­tributed by the Scholarship Commit­tee of the club. The undertaking was a great success, with enough profit being made to enroll another New York boy at Notre Dame next year, and pay his tuition for the four year term. 
The Roof Garden of the Hotel 

Pennsylvania was filled to capacity 
the night of the Army game when 
over 500 alumni and their friends at­
tended the annual dinner dance. The 
music was furnished by FRANCIS 
(Bugs) •ft'ALTHER, '25, and his or­
chestra. 
JOSEPH M. BYRNE, '15, was toastmaster and performed in his usual splendid manner. FATHER JOHN MACNAMARA, chaplain of the New York Club, and introduced as "chaplain of all Notre Dame foot­ball" spoke briefly as did also PAUL CASTNER, FATHER BERNARD J. ILL, C.S.C, Eddie Dooley of the New York Sun, Art Daily of the New York Times, JIMMY CROWLEY, and EL­MER LAYDEN. 
The New York Club presented to COACH LA'SDEN a trophy to be awarded to the champion interhall football team each year. The plaque is called the "Joseph George Sullivan Memorial" and is intended to perpetu­ate the memory of the late Captain JOE SULLIVA"N among Notre Dame football plavers. 
+: 

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Robert P. Sullivan. '33. 102 Walnut St. San Francisco, Calif., President W. Breen, McDonald. '17, 839 Howard St., San Fran­cisco, Calif., Secretary. 

EDWARD P. CARVILLE, '09, Reno, Nevada, governor of District 20 of the Association, in a recent let­ter to President VOLL, reported on a pleasant and profitable dinner-meet­ing ivith the officers and a dozen mem­bers of the club in the Olympic Club, San Francisco, on December 10. Mr. Carville spoke on the club organiza­tion of the Association and on the "Notre Dame spirit." The officers of the club, BOB SULLIVAN, president, and BREEN McDONALD, secretary, were in charge of arrangements. 
* 

OREGON 
Frmnk T. Collier. '08. 721 Yeon Bldg.. Portland. President William C. Schmitt, '10. Consolidated Equipment Co.. Portland, Secretary. 

OKLAHOMA Joseph A. Koran, '32. 1611 S. Carson, Tul­
sa, President. Norbert F. Skelly. '25. 
University Club, Tulsa, Secretary. 
On the evening of November 23, in the French Soom of the Mayo Hotel here in Tulsa we had a dinner for the Notre Dame Club of Oklahoma. Everyone seemed to enjoy himself very much, and there has been some talk of a dance, to be given by the same organization at Christmas time. 
I am enclosing a list of the guests and trust that this will be sufficient information to convince you that we are still in existence down here. 
Present at November 23 meeting: 
MARION BLAKE, LEO FAGAN, 
JOSEPH LANTRY, EDWARD LE­
EOUX, THOMAS D. LYONS, THOM­
AS SHEA, J. M. McGURL, LYLE 
MORENCY, JOSEPH L.A. FORTUNE, 
NORBERT SKELLEY, PAUL STI­
CELBER, JOHN CONWAY, MOR­
RIS LOCKE, CHARLES DUFFY, 
JAMES HIGOmS, HENRY McNA-
MOR, E. F. MORAN, F. B. MORAN, 
J. A. MORAN, JIARTIN REIDY, JAMES WADE. 
JOSEPH A. MORAN, President. 

PARIS 
Louis P. Harl, '16, Paris Office, New York, 
Herald-lVibune, Paris, fVance, President. 
PEORIA Ernest C. HccIiinEcr, '32, 301 Barker St. President. Al Gurj-, Jr.. '28, 612 Albany Ave., Secretary. 
Everything is arranged for the big Christmas dance to be given by the Peoria Club Saturday evening, De­cember 21, from 10 to 2. The com­mittee in charge of the dance consists of BOB RAINEY, chairman, assisted by BILL MOTSETT and ERNIE HECHINGER. Your truly is han­dling publicity. Arrangements are already being made for a big Uni­versal Notre Dame Night at the Knights of Columbus Club. We hope to have some one of the successful coaching staff of Notre Dame in at­tendance. 
.A.L GURY, JR., 
Secretary. 

PHILADELPHIA 

Gerard Descn. '10. 6734 N. 18th St.. Pres­
ident. Wm. E. Cooney, '31, 5725 McMa­

hon Ave., Secretary. 
Concerning alumni dues, we de­veloped an interesting plan which 1 would like to explain here. We have decided to have a door prize at each of the 10 meetings of the club with the winner receiving as his prize $5 from the club treasury which will be sent to you to pay that member's dues for the year. In the case where the member has already paid his dues the money will be credited to the payment of the following year's dues. No member will be allowed to accept the prize more than once, and two months of the year the prize shall be 


The Notre Di 
I u m n us 

used to pay the dues of the secretary and treasurer in reward for their work. 
This plan has been adopted for a period of one year to give it a trial. There was opposition on the point that it may discourage some from paying their dues to the Association in the hope that they will win the door prize. It was decided that the idea would not tend to do so because one could still receive credit for pay­ment of the next year's dues. It will certainly make us "dues conscious" with the subject coming up each meeting as the winner is drawn, and we feel that it will lead to more paid-up dues members from this area. Fur­ther, Jim, you can see that if this plan or a variation of it is adopted by Notre Dame clubs throughout the country it will produce a high income to you: figure 100 clubs doing this and it means $500 per month, figur­ing they met monthly. This is a start anyhow, Jim, and perhaps the Phila­delphia gang will lead the way for the other clubs to give the National Association more thought. 
BILL COONEY, Secretary. 

PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
E. John Hilkert, '22, Box 62, President. Julius J. Danch, '25, 343 N. 20th Ave.. Secretary. 
ROCHESTER (New York) 
Peter J. Connelly. '33. 934 N. Goodman 
St.. President: Frank Norton, '32, SO Bcck­
with Terrace, Secretarj-. 
FRiVNK NORTON has been quite busy of late, and I am taking the job of \vriting the results of our activities to you. We have had more activity in the Club this past six weeks than we have known for the past year. First of all, we had an election of officers and several amendments to the by-laws which might be interest­ing to you. 
A nominating committee was ap­pointed by the president incumbent consisting of past-presidents. This was the former procedure. Now, we are electing what we call a board of governors, consisting of one man who was graduated last June, another man within the five years preceding that, another man ten years preceding that time, and one man from the older group, of any year preceding the past sixteen. These men are elected by a majority vote of the members of the respective year groups only. 
The board of governors for 1936 is as follows: 1935 graduate, JOHN GILOOLEY; 1934 to 1929, BER­NARD HENNESSEY; 1928 to 1918, BILL M ER RI M A N ; 1917, JOE FLYNN. 
These men comprise the new nom­inating committee. Other candidates were, of course, nominated from the floor. The rusult of the election is as follows: president, PETER J. CONNELLY, '33; vice-president, AR­NOLD B. MORRISON, '35; secretary and treasurer, FRANK NORTON, '32. 
We have combined the ofSce of sec­retary and treasurer. The election was held at the Roch­
*» ester Club. Another party was held at the Rochester Club two weeks later, at which Christmas plans were discussed, and arrangements com­pleted for an Alumni Reunion, at which all students at Notre Dame will be invited and feted at the Rochester Club on Monday, December 23. 
The annual Christmas Dance, which will be conducted entirely by the alumni this year, will be held at the Rochester Club the night after Christ­mas. This is what I call real ac­tivity. 
The purpose of the Board of Gov­ernors is to act in an advisory ca­pacity with the officers incumbent and to check these officers in the event of any cessation of activities; in other words, to keep the club operat­ing actively throughout the year. 
GERRY SMITH. 

RHODE ISLAND I«a R. HcAloon, '30. 260 Pawtaeint Art., Fawtncket, Prerident. J(*n F. MeKIer­nan, '34, 20S Lockwood Ave.. Providence. Secretary. 
The Notre Dame University Guild, the first organization of its kind in the country, which purposes to foster the interest of women in Notre Dame, was organized recently in Providence by the Rhode Island Club. 
DR. ELLEN RYAN JOLLY of Pawtucket, one of the few women who have received an honorary de­gree from Notre Dame, was elected honorary president of the Guild. 
Miss Elizabeth McLaughlin of Cumberland Hill was named presi­dent. Other officers are: Miss Mary 
R. Grimes, Providence, vice president; Miss Rose McGovem of Bristol, sec­retary; and Miss Agnes Sullivan, Providence, treasurer. 
Members of the e.\ecutive board are the Misses Mary Kelly and Anna Cox, Providence, Mrs. Leo McAloon of Pawtucket, Miss Mary McNally of Central Falls, Miss Adeline Coffey of Woonsocket, Mrs. James Cleary of Taunton, and Mrs. William Coogan of Fall River. 
J. CLEMENT GRIMES conducted the organization program. Speakers were Rev. W. J. DOHENY, C.S.C, Holy Cross Seminary at North Easton, Mass.; Rev. William Delaney, and Rev. GEORGE FISHER, C.S.C, of the Holy Cross Mission Band at Notre Dame. 
The Guild purposes also, it was announced, to support the Catholic Youth movement in its district. 
no 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Illinois) Baymond G. Uarelli, '27, 1312 Yoxme. St., Bockfoid, ni.. President. Francis W. Howlsnd, '25. 902 N. Main St., Bockford. m.. Secretary. 
* 
SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) 
Tbomas F. Van Aarle, '21, Standard Oil Co., Saginaw, Hich., President. William 
C. Hurler, "25, 117 Clierry St, Saginaw, Hich. Secretary. 
* 
SAN ANTONIO William V. Dielmann, Jr., '25, 107 TJiel­ma Drive, President. Edward G. Conroy, '30, 204 R Crais PI., Secretary. 
SIOUX CITY, IOWA Vincent F. Hairinston, '25, Continental Hortease Co., President. 
SPRINGFIELD ILLINOIS Michael F. Kinney, '31, State House, Pres­ident. John Troy, ex. '28, 800 S. Ninth Su. Secretary. 
ST. LOUIS Robert Hellruns. '30, 306 N. Grand Blvd., President: David J. Keillcy, Jr., '30, 1115 Louisville Ave., Secretary. 
At a meeting of the officers held just the other day 10 representative members of the club were elected to a Board of Directors. 
I want to start this year off right and our outlook is very bright. We look forward to having the most ac­tive and the most successful year for the Notre Dame alumni in St. Louis. 
ROBERT T. HELLEXJNG, President. 
* 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) Francis Jones, '29, 802 I.O.O.P. Bldg.. South Bend, Ind., President. Louis Ghap­leau, 'SO, Union Trust Bldg., South Bend. Ind., Secretary. 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. Ward L. Leahy, '26, 307 Forest Hill Drive. Syracuse, President. Francis J. Cashier, ex. '34, 111 Wendell Ave., Syracuse, Sec­retary. 
FRANK CASHIER, secretary of the club, just missed the December number with these items: 

. WARD LEAHY, club president, is the proud father of a baby girl. 
An informal delegation attended the Army-Notre Dame game at New York City, and from all reports, it's still the "Fighting Irish." 
Definite plans for a stag dinner will be discussed at the next meeting. 
* 

TIFFIN, OHIO 
C. J. Schmidt, '11, 260 Melmore St., Pres­ident. Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore SL, Secretary. 
* 

TOLEDO Norbert Schart, '26 Toledo Edison Co.. President. Joseph L. Wetli, '31, 717 Starr Ave.. Secretary. 
TRI-CITIES (Illinois-Iowa) Bichard B. Swift, '20. Kahl Bide., Daven­port. Iowa, President. Arthur L. Himbert, 'S2, 527 S9th St , Kock Island. 111., Sec­retary. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
William Hogan, '32, 62 Uarr St, Bing-' hamton, N. Y., President William Yeager. '34, 18 Vine St , Binehamton, New York, Secretary. 
We thought it a good idea to get the news in before the snow gets too deep for those Mid-Western trains. One year around Ciiristmas time they were only a day or so late. The fel­lows who were there in '29 tell some great yams about it. 
It was before the -A.rmy game that you last heard from us, so we had better forget the date on the calen­dar. The Triple Cities alumni were well represented at the Army game, and none tried to pull the twelve man Dartmouth play. All enjoyed it. It was a fine week end (except for that Sunday) and the fellows had a chance to see some of their old friends in New York. 
.4L McCORfflCK, '33, went to the Southern Cal. game—almost. 
BILL AYRES, '34, sports editor for the Binghamton Sun, gave the 
N. D. team some fine write-ups this past Fall. He can write about them and with his background know what he's talking about. 
JOE C.4.REY, '32, and Margaret Costello, of Binghamton, were mar­ried in St. Patrick's Church, Thanks­giving Day, They are now residing in New York. The Triple Cities' Gub was planning a stag for Joe. He was unaware of it and didn't arrive in the city until the Wednesday before Thanksgiving. It was too late for the party then. Joe is the former president of our club and we wish Peg and him lots of happiness. 

JOHN DONNELLY missed being the supervisor of the eighth ward by exactly four votes. Anyone here knows that his showing was the best in an election which went almost completely for the other party. John's baby boy is getting to be quite a man now—he's going to be a real husky like his dad, too. 
Heard from TED GABRISKI, '34, the other day. He is now in his sec­ond year of medical study at Jeffer­son Medical School, Philadelphia, I'm hoping that he spends a few days of his vacation here in Bingo next summer. 

Triple Cities' Club alumni are look­ing forward to the N. D.-Syracuse basketball game played at Syracuse, January 20. 
The annual Christmas dance will be held the 26th of December at the Monday Afternoon Club. We will be able to tell you more about it in our next page of news. 
BILL YEAGER, 
Secretary. 
January, 1936 
TWIN CITIES (MinnesoU) John D. Yelland. '30, 3221 Holmes Ave., So., SGnneapoIis. President; Joseph R. Schroeder. '31. 219 Fremont Ave., N.. Minneapolis,- Secretary. A swanky announcement and invi­tation made known the annual Christ­mas dance of the Twin Cities club. 'Twas to be held this • year in the Continental Room of the- St. Paul Hotel, St. Paul, on December 26, with music by Bemie Cummins and his New Yorkers and by George Hamil­ton and his Famous Music. 
* 
UTAH Raymond R. Brady. '24. 20S Eeams Bldg., Salt Lake City, President Cyril Harbecke, '19, 64 F. St. Salt Lake City, Secretary. 
* 
UTICA, NEW YORK Dr. John F. Eelley. '22, Peoples' Gas & Electric Bldg., President Joseph W. Ful­lera, '31, 1621 Neilson St , Secretary. 
* 
WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) Noble Kizer, '25, Purdue University, Laf­ayette. Ind., President Peter Vogt. Sec­retary. 
* 
WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT John Robinson. '28. 32 Farmington Ave.. President James U. Monaghan, '27. 44 Ayer St . Secretary. 
* 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA Francis J. Wilson. '28. 1217 Mclvem. Pittsburgh. President Edward J. O'Brien. Jr.. '34. 446 Wood St. Pittsburgh. Sec­retary. 
* 
WESTERN WASHINGTON Jc^n J. Dempsey. '95, Dempsey Xiumber Co., Tacoma. President. Ro^r t I. Piffott, 
•32, 925 12th Ave.. N.. Seattle, Secretary. 
WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA Thomaa F. Howler, '11, Citizens-Peoples Trust Co., ^Vheeling. President. Georse Sarsus, '28, 2111 Belmont, Bellaire, Ohio. Secretary. 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Moran. *29, 1348 Quinn. President. Charles Ciishwa, *31, 463 Madera Ave., Secretary. 
WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME Sister M. Frederick. C.S.C., S t Mary's College, Notre Dame, Tnd.. President. Sis­
ter M. Anselice. B.V.M., Secretary. 



NEW CLUB IN SOUTH BEND 
The Knights of Columbus Building in South Bend, more recently the Jefferson Plaza, has recently been re­opened as the Columbia .A.thletic Club, with a charter membership of 
200. Sonsors of the new project in­clude Howard "Cap" Edwards, '09, Bernard J. VoU, '17, and Elmer F. Layden, '25. Giles L. Cain, ex. '21, has been named secretary and man­ager of the club. 
Two handball courts have been in­stalled, together with, lockers and showers, as well as squash courts and badminton courts and new equipment has been bought for the bowling alleysr Table tennis and billiards are also provided. The entire building has been redecorated and new fur­niture and lighting installed. 

January, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus III 
THE ALUMNI 
1890-1893 I'SBb P. aate. r Ualnnitr 

DEATHS 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Isabel T. Regan and EDWARD J. BUTLER, '34. 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Mary Jeanne Weir and WILLIAM H. VEENE­MAN, Jr., '34. 

MARRIAGES 

Miss Gertrude Michels and JOHN 
T. HARRINGTON, '30, were married on Thanksgiving Day, Nov. 28, in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
Miss Goldie DeVreese and CARL 
P. FRIEDRICH, ex. '29, were mar­ried November 27, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Leona K. Deppert and MER­RITT M. OTTO, '30, were married Thanksgiving Day, Nov. 28, in St. Matthew's Church, South Bend, In­diana. 
Miss Helen Hallett and FRANCIS DILLMAN, '33, were married No­vember 26, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Mr. and Mrs. C. W. BADER, '19, announce the birth of a daughter, December 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT RIORDAN, '24, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Judith Ann, December 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN P. McKENNA, '25, announce the birth of a son, November 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. DWIGHT L. FIELD, '26, announce the birth of a son, Richard Eugene, September 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM WADE SULLIVAN, '26, announce the birth of a daughter, Shelia, November 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN A. GALLA­GHER, '26, announce the birth of a daughter, Mary Lou, November 28. 
Lieut, and Mrs. HUGH P. McCAF-FERY, '27, announce the birth of a daughter, Patricia, in September. 
Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE H. HENNESSEY, '27, announce the birth of a son, Lawrence H., Jr., on November 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS F. CON­
ROY, '27, announce the birth of a 
son, Thomas F., Jr., on November 16. 
• Mr. and Mrs. JOHN P. CAVA­NATJGH, '28, announce the birth of a son, John Paul, Jr. 
ROBERT J. VAN LENT, ex. '23, died in Davenport, Iowa, recently after a lingering illness. He was buried in Muscatine, Iowa. 
After leaving Notre Dame Mr. Van Lent became associated with the W. 
G. Block company in Davenport as an auditor and had advanced to the position of vice-president and general manager when ill health forced him to retire several years ago. He is survived by his wife, his parents and one brother. 
A recent note from his wife con­veyed the sad news that PAUL A. R0THWELL,''12, had died in Buf­falo, Wyoming, on April 10, 1935. 
Another member of the class of 1912 was lost with the recent death of ALFRED A. SANCHEZ in Mexico. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sym­pathy to: FRED F. HERBST, '26, upon the death of his father; HARRY WUNSCH, '34, upon the death of his father; OTTY CERNEY, '34, upon the death of his father; Rev. RICH­ARD MURPHY, C.S.C, '31, upon the death of his father; Rev. ARTHUR HOPE, '20, upon the death of his mother; Rev. JOSEPH BURKE, C.S.C, '04, upon the death of his sis­ter; Professor WILLIAM ROEMER, upon the death of his infant son; LOUIS BRUGGNER, '23, upon the death of his infant son; JOHN SE­LEINE, OS. '36, upon the death of his mother; BUD HABERKERN, '33, upon the death of his father; F. WELLS ROBISON, '34, upon the death of his father; JAMES, '31, and WILLIAM KEARNEY, '28, upon the death of their mother; PAUL SEA­MAN, '33, upon the death of his father. 

PERSONALS 

Before 1880 «?"• '^"."^f *'• 3*^' 
her, Fitcnbarff. Hmsa. 

1880-1885 ••"'•, "Si""ns?*- A"*'"""-CireleTiUe. Ohio. 
188 R Michael O. Bnnu, 338 S. Second St., 
" HamUton. Ohio. 
1887-188 8 ^°^" ^ Heineman, Conners-
Tille, Indiana. 

188 9 '*• ^ Buriu. 301 Camp St.. New Or­
leans. La. 

1894 B«^ ^ CDModl. 1 W. (Ttt St. 
Mew Toik CIlT. 

HUGH O'DONELL writes: "BILL CORRELL, of Johnstown, Pa., sent a beautiful emissary to me recently. She gave me all Idnds of news about Bill, whom I have not heard from in a number of years. He has three nephews, one a doctor and two, priests. Bill, his father and brother are all that are left at home of the once good-sized family.". 
189 5  E"t*a  CalUaaii.  Sr..  SM  Pkelaa  
BMc., San Fnndscaw  Calif.  
*  
isg g"  William P. Bnnu. S » Wi]lar4 ATC.  Mckinn City. Ind.  

Ig97 Rer. J. A. MacNaman. St. Jaai«h'a Sanitarium. Mt. CItmttaa, Wck. 
189 8 ^iDbuB C. Keckr. Slh and Sranwn 
*'~* ' Sla., Cindnaati. Ohio. 
189 9 Dr. J*>t*k F. Dune. 418 JeCenaa 
ioji » Bird.. Pearia. m. 
190 0 ''•>•"> ^ - BneauB. OU Pint Bank 
a«»w gy^^ ^^ Wayne, bi. 
ign l Joieph J. SalUTan. Ull. M* N. ^ ' CUrk St. CUcacs. ID. 
Recent news bulletins from Mex­ico carry the information that ED­UARDO HAY, C.E. '01, has lately been appointed secretary of foreign relations for that country. Mr. Hay's new oilice follows a long career of service in the Mexican diplomatic field and in various other govern­mental offices. He has received decor­ations from Italy, Japan and Bo­livia. 
* 

190 2 C. a Mitcliell. Ill S. Deaihom St. 
"^ ^ Box S. CUcaco, m. 
VITUS JONES, '02, of South Bend, was unanimously elected president of the St. Joseph County Bar Associa­tion at an election on December 6. He succeeds AARON HUGUENARD, '22. ALBERT FRANTZ, '29, was elected secretary-treasurer of the As­sociation at the same time and ED DORAN, '20, was elected a member of the board of directors. 
190 3 Pnncia P. Buka. SM Tnat C*. 
X0U.> Bids.. BOIwaakai. Wla. 
190 4 Rekert Praetar. Hawtr BU c Hk­
**™* hart Ind. 
DR. J. H. MEDRANO in a recent letter to FATHER O'HARA asks for 
a catalog of the University and for some copies of the Scholastic. He adds: "Anything coming from that .institution that I love so much is really a great pleasure to my soul." Doctor Medrano's address is Apar­
tado 65, Guantanamo, Cuba. 
* 
1 atVi Daniel 3. O'Connor, 10 S. LaSalle St., *"" " Chicmco, m. 
* 
KUI A Thomas A. Lallr, 811-13 Panlun 13U O Bldg.. Spokane, Wash. 
* 
1 on ? I1«T. Thomas E. Baike, C. S. C No­*"* " tre Dame. Ind. 
Through ED CLEARY, '09, of the University staff, comes -welcome news of the long-missing JOHN COONTZ. John is now living in Anacostia, Dis­trict of Columbia, and is %\Titing for the magazines. His wife is a success­ful writer of pageants. 
lOntt Fiank X. Cnll, Bulkier BMe., CIcTe­
190 9 ^ ^* ^'*''"' Notre Dame. Ind. 
* 
lO m Ber. BL L. Horiarty, 1900 Endld 1»1 U ^^ _ Oeveland. Ohio. 
* 
iql l Fred Steers, 163S First National **'*•' Bank Bide., Chlcaeo, HL 
Secretary STEERS asks us to're­mind the members of the class of 1911 that they will have their silver anni­versary celebration at the .Mumni Re­union ne-xt June. Fred is planning to send individual notices and invita­tions to all the classmates whose present whereabouts is known to the Alumni Office. He would be particu­larly pleased to have suggestions from any of the boys as to the nature of the celebration, etc. 
Listed below (with the latest ad­dresses known to the -Mumni office) are the graduates of the class of 1911 who are in the "mail returned un­claimed" file. -Any information as to these men will be appreciated by the Alumni Office and by Fred Steers. 
Arnold, William Simpson, M.E., 267 S. Clairmont .'^ve., Sprgfld, 0. Buckley, Leo Francis, LL.B., 705 S. Michigan St., So. Bend, Ind. Maroney, John John, LL.B., Reed Creek, New York. McGarry, William Everett, Litt.B., 808 North 25th St., Boise, Idaho. Mendoza, Jose M., S.E.E., Chihuahua, Box 7, Mexico. O'Brien, Wihner Leo, LL.B., 901 Marion St, Elkhart, Ind. Shenk, Robert R., M.E., Rm. 618,8 N. Dearborn St., Chicago. Somers, Michael Francis, Ph.G., 914 N. Madison St., Bloomington, HI. Talcott, Baughan Harry, S.E.E., Washington, D. C. Vera, Jesse Eustaquis, E.E., 2 Erctara, 3rd St., Juarez 5, Mexico. Washburn, George Edw., C.E., 7612 Marquette Ave., Chicago, HI. 
Wolff, George William, C.E., Mexico City, Mexico. Zimmer, Henry Joseph, B.S.Biol., 205 N. Oak Ave., MUlvale, Pa. 
* 
191 2 B. J. .Kaiser, 324 Fourth St., Pitta­^''^^ hui»h. Pa. 
191 3 James J. DcTitt, S21 Encinecrs BM c Clcreland. Ohio. 
H.ARRY KIRK writes from Wash­ington, D. C: "I claim the distinction of which I am very proud, of being the only Notre Dame grad with a daughter a Carmelite nun. If there are any others, let them step forward and give thanks with me." Harry's daughter, Margaret Mary, is now Sis­ter Kathleen of the Holy Family, having taken her temporary vows in the Carmelite sisterhood in Baltimore on November 14. 
One of our Cleveland correspon­dents sends on word that Mr. and Mrs. JIM DEVITT became the par­ents of a second daughter, Ellen, on November 19. Ellen's older sister is named Anne. 
191 4 Fiank H. Hares, 40e Bank of Amer. ica Bide.. Anaheim, Calif. 
* 
1 Q1 e James E. Sanford, 1524 Farwell Are.. *'* ° Chicaio. in. 
* 
191 6 Timothr P. Galvin, First Trust BIdx., Hammond, Ind. 
101 7 Edward J. HcOsker. 104 S. Union St.. Elein. m. 
* 
1Q1 A J°I>n A. Lemmer, 1110—8th Are., S_ *^'-° Escanaba, Mich. 
* 
1Q1 Q Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce Street. *''*' Gary. Ind. 
* 
1920—I*") B. Ward, 1912 Black Bide Loa Aneeles. Calif. 
Our faithful New York correspon­dent reports further. HUGH O'DON­NELL, '94, says: ".^L RY.AN, '20. who used to manage athletic activi­ties at Notre Dame and started the ALUMNUS, visited me from Detroit last week. He is extremely busy with the Universal Credit Company which consists of an organization of 1,600 in which he is the tenth top man. He is the father of a handsome boy and so much in love with his wife that, wherever he is, he writes her every day. Occasionally he telephones and not long ago spent half an hour gabbing with her over the phone, which cost him $30. Love is expen­sive at times." 
192 1 -'Uden J. Cnsick, 1 Park Are., New *^* * York City. 
The ever-active AL SLAGGERT on December 4 spoke to the men's society of St. John Berchman's par­ish, Detroit, on "An Analysis of the Principle of Intervention." 
IRVING HALLETT, former assist­ant manager of the Whitcomb Hotel in St. Joseph, Michigan, is now man­ager of the Hunter Arms Hotel in St. Cloud, Florida, and extends a special welcome to all N. D. men who live in Florida or have occasion to visit that beautiful state. (Ed's note: There is extra emphasis in that item today. As this is written, a good old Indiana blizzard of the wildest vari­ety is raging outside.) 
109 9 Gerald Ashe. BnSalo AtUetie CInb, *** * BnBalo, New York. 
BILL CASTELLINI, Philadelphia, public relations counselor, formerly with the Edward L. Bemays organi­zation as liason officer for the Philco Radio and Television Corporation, has recently been appointed director of public relations for the Franklin In­stitute in Philadelphia. Bill moved to Philadelphia a year or so ago after a wide experience in publicity work in Cincinnati. 
192 3 '*"'' Castner. White Motor Co.. CleTeland. Ohio. 
CY NEFF writes: "I am employed as engineer-inspector by the Federal Housing Administration in Cleveland and have three boys whom I hope to send to N. D. a few years hence." C/s address is 897 East 146th Street, Cleveland. 
ELMER HOLMBERG has returned recently from the Orient where he has been employed for the past three years by the American Express Com­pany. 
* 
192 4 James F. Hayes. Wm. J. Fedrick & ^""^ Co.. Empire State Bide, N.Y.& 
We-rise-to-the-defense-department: The following Winchell item of De­cember 19 does NOT concern our Rob­ert, University registrar and proud father of seven: "Robert Riordan and Francine Counihan will be middle-aisled in about two fortnights." Which gives us an opportunity to say that our Robert, as commanding gen­eral of Notre Dame Army, Navy, Marines and Submarines, did a swell job as Escort Marshall to President Roosevelt, '35, and as director of all military and police details on the oc­casion of the President's visit to the campus. Just a few days before that visit Bob got acquainted for the first time with Judith Ann, his latest daughter. 
1Q2 S J°l™ ^ - Scallan. 79 E. Adams St. **'**' Chicaco, m. 
HARRY McGUIRE, formeriy of Denver, now of Oregon, Illinois, is preparing to publish a magazine called Ringmaster which is to be made up mostly of cartoons. The first issue is expected soon. 
192 6 Dr. Gerald W. Hayes. SC N. Walnnt *•'*•'' St. East Oranie. N. J. 
* 
192 7 Edmund Dcaerq. 8118 Ellis Are.. Chicaco, ni. 
PAUL BUTLER, now practicing law in South Bend with the firm of 

January. 1936 
Jones, Obenchain, and Butler, was the principal speaker at the year's first Law Club smoker, held in the faculty dining hall on the campus, November 21. He spoke on the var­ious phases of his trial practice ex­perience. 
JOE REEDY does the foUo^ving beautiful job of assisting ED DE CLERQ: 
Having attended the gathering of the Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee 
•svith JOE GRIFFIN, '28, and RED HEARDEN, '27, to listen to the Army game last week I thought it might be well to report on a few of the boys I've seen around these parts lately. 
Joe Griffin is going into his second year as branch manager for the Cen­tury Indemnity here in Milwaukee where we share the Chicago Tribune and his membership in the Milwaukee Athletic club. I let him beat me in handball twice a week and he's satis­fied. Tom Hearden is coaching Racine High School, after having turned out some crack teams for St. Catherine's of Racine for some years. He's married and has a 20-month old daughter. TOM DUNN, '27, left a fine job as a home ofiice man for the Northwestern Casualty here in Mil­waukee to return to his home in Morris, Illinois in an attempted ex­pression of his idea of rugged indi­vidualism. He has set up a law office there. He intimated that, though he Kas been quite busy, he would handle any cases referred to him by former Notre Dame men as a special favor for the regular fee. 
I met DAN BRADY, '26, in Rhine­lander, Wisconsin a few months back. He was representing Packard Motor company out of Chicago and wearing his watch in his upper coat pocket (see Esquire, October Issue). He looked as good as usual. DING Mc-CABE just joined the office of Mur­phy 0. Tate in Chicago where he's doing himself proud, I understand. CHET MCDONALD, '27, writes regu­' larly. He is in Salem, Massachusetts, with the Century Indemnity in New England. I believe he stated that JOE GARTLAND, '27, had married recently after having had a full set of furniture purchased for over a year. He married the same girl he bought the furniture for, however. Chet also stated he sees JOHN Mc-MANMON, '28, quite often. I saw DON RYAN, '32, in Detroit last sum­mer. He has made nice progress ^vith the Universal Credit company. I be­lieve he is in Minneapolis as credit manager at present. I'm with the same outfit, by the way, and am going into my fifth year with them in Mil­waukee. I understand BOB SHIELDS, '27, is also with the company in the New York office. I guess this is my 
.stop. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
The selfsame GARTLAND who is the object of REEDY'S attention above writes that he recently had a very pleasant visit at the new C.S.C. hous e in North Easton, Massa­chusetts, vnth Fathers DOHENY, LEE et al. Joe also reports that the Boston stock and bond business is picking up. 
1Q28 Lonis Buckler, 718 E. Corbr St., 
**'*•" Sonlh Bend. Ind. 
JOHN SEITER is teaching in the high school in Warrensburg, Missouri, according to a recent news bulletin from the Missouri front. 
Professor BUCKLEY reports that: 
FRANK CONNORS writes the fol­lowing note from Arcade, N. Y.: "The PETE GALLAGHERS of Free-, land. Pa., are now grooming Thomas, who arrived July 1, to carry on the Gallagher name at Notre Dame. The wandering ED TULLY paid me a very pleasant surprise visit a couple of weeks ago. It was just a one night stand as you might say, and he was off on his wanderings again. But, boy, what a lot of ground we cov­ered! I hope GENE PARRELL can find TuUy and send him back this way again soon." 
Thanks for the letter, PVank, and here's hoping that some of the other '28 men follow your example. Maybe a few more months without news in the '28 column will bring forth some notes of protest in the form of infor­mation for this column. 
PAUL TOBIN and his brother, JIM, '29, are associated with their father in the Elgin Clinic in Elgin, Illinois. Paul has specialized in or­thopedics and surgerj', while Jim handles the internal medicine depart­ment of the clinic. 
FRANK DONOVAN, returning from the Army game, reported that he saw JIM CONMEY in New York where he is still giving the boys hot tips on Wall Stareet. Frank informs me that WALT LAYNE and ADRI­AN LOPEZ are publishing a maga­zine in New York with offices at 45 West 45th street. He also saw JOE MORRISSEY at the Ohio State game. 
RAY MULLIGAN stopped in be­fore the Southern California game and we discussed the sudden death of JIM GRAY from typhoid. Ray "is practicing law in Chicago. 
MIKE RICKS and his wife of La­fayette, Indiana, were here for the awarding of the degree to President Roosevelt. Mike would like very much to hear from BUD CALLAGY, who was at Georgetown with Mike in the Law school. 
BERT TOEPP and family have re­turned from Washington to swell the ranks of the '28 men in South Bend to about fifteen now. Bert is con­nected with the First Bank and Trust Company. 
113 

The Class of '28 is rather fortunate in having a representative in the County Prosecutor's Office in S t Joseph County. SEYMOUK WEIS­BERGER was there for a number of years under the Democratic adminis­tration, and now that St. Joseph County has gone Republican BOB GRANT has been appointed deputy prosecutor. This should make '28 men feel safe and offer an added in­centive to visit good old South Bend. 
1929 JoMPh McNaman. 231 Wbcnufai St . IndijuMiMlb. In i 
* 

193 0 Bcmaid W. Conrar. IIM KouMtli 
St, New Kembiston. Vm. 

BERNIE CONROY writes as follows: 
TIM TOOMEY is still keeping the Royal Indemnity in the insurance business in New York. My old Green­wich Village pals, JIM RIZER and DOCTOR TOM SHEEN, are busy trying to keep up with the night life on Broadway. 
HOWIE SMITH had a successful season at Mt. Vernon High. His team lost only one game in a tough league. 
JOHN BEUON and his orchestra are playing at the Cleveland Club's Christmas Frolic. John played all last summer at the Lake Shore Hotel in Cleveland, so you know he is do­ing very well 
ZENO STAUDT of Canton is a frequent visitor in Cleveland. 
That is all of the news I can think of at present, Jim. The next time you will hear from me I will be on the Pacific Coast. My mother and I are driving out to Burbank, Cal. this week. We intend to stay for the win­ter, so I hope to see a number of the fellows out there. My mailing ad­dress will be c-o W. E. Simpson, 516 
W. Kenneth Rd., Burbank, Cal., al­though I am not sure whether I will stay in Burbank all of the time. If you know of anyone in particular that I should look up out there let me know the address. 
PAT CONWAY, who since 1931 has been doing an outstanding job of coaching at DeLaSalle High School in Cumberland, Maryland, has trans­ferred his activities to West Phila­delphia Catholic High School, where he was appointed head football and basketball coach. Before going to Cumberland Fat was coach at Cathe­dral High School in Lafayette, Loui­siana. West Catholic of Philadelphia, incidentally, has won the National Catholic Interscholastic Track and Field Meet at Notre Dame for each of the two years it has been con­ducted. 
KARL BRENNAN writes from the 
W. T. Grant Co., 293 East Main Street, Rochester, New York, to say that he has been in Rochester since last September. His job with Grant's has provided him with a view of much of the eastern U. S. in the past fonr 
• years, he says. 
GUS SIERON is now assistant works chemist at the General Chemi­cal Company plant in Chicago. 
WhOe GEORGE SIMONS is rep­resentative of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company in Chicago. 
10^1 '°l>>> E. Bolmnd. 1402 Linden St., ^''^ ^ Scrmnton, Pfc 
Dramatic note: the Washington Star makes mention of the acting of CARL CHRISTIANSON who took a leading part in "Apron Strings" pro­duced by the University Club in Washington, D. C. on November 21. 
GEORGE COSTELLO, our Detroit scout reports, is now in the Chevro­let Purchasing department in Detroit. 
And the Chicago Winchell sez that BILL CHAWGO is in the U. S. In­ternal Revenue office in Chicago. 
1 Q^ 2 Herbert Gioreio, 9005 ISSth SU, Rol­'*'•'* li., U I., New Tork. 
BILL LYONS has recently landed a job with the air conditioning divi­sion of Chrysler Motors in New York City. 
BOB GORMAN writes from his Chicago address at 1250 Stone Street to send his alumni dues. The former Juggler maestro is in the advertising business. 
On the other hand the former Dome maestro, PAUL HALLINAN, is in Our Lady of the Lake Seminary, aeveland, together with ED SE­WARD, '34. 
* 

IQ^tS Donmia Wise, 110 Pleasant St., Jo­*'^*** Uet, in. 
JOSEPH TALBOT, after an ab­sence of some seven months during which he was a member of the De­partment of Justice, has resumed the practice of law in South Bend. He is also president of the Young Men's Democratic club in his home city. 
DAVE POWERS is teaching at Pordham in New York and doing a very successful job of it, according to our up-and-down Broadway scout. He has a very bright future ahead, the scouting report adds. 
In writing in to have his address changed on the records DON MAR­TIN reports that he is in charge of the office in the WPA work camp in Muncie, Indiana. P. 0. Box 1030, Muncie, will reach him. 
NORMAN BOWES is doing gradu­ate law work at Georgetown Univer­sity, Washington, D. C. 
ED LOPKER has been succeeded at the General Chemical plant in Chi­cago by.ED STANTON. The former Ed has moved to an Eastern plant 
GEORGE MEYERS is doing social service in Chicago, according to our "informer" and attending Loyola law school at night. 
IQ^il JmmeB Hoicow, 2320 N. Lawndde *"* " Are., Chicaio, UL 
The "Ross Gang," New York City, very kindly and generously sends the following: 
Just a note while talking over the Army game. Decided we'd try to re­member all the gang we met, what they are doing and how they do it. First of all, the outfit that hangs around here. As you know JIM ROSS, '34, runs the tavern [comer 50th Street and Sixth Avenue] and all the N. D. lads, sooner or later, register here. 
FRAN TOOMEY and BOB SUL­LIVAN, working for the State of New York, even go so far as to bring girls in, the sissies. 
JOHN WALLACE and HUGH FITZGERALD make visits once a week, both being in Columbia Law School. 
JOHN HAYES, selling insurance, is married and a proud father. Also a benedict and dad is TOM DALEY, quite a surprise. 
DON DUGAN, a squash pro at the Parke Avenue Squash Club, doing very nicely and looking towards the altar for the trip up the aisle. 
PAR PLANNERY, same inten­tions, is with a Long Island public utility. JACK EGAN, a salesman for Remington Rand in the city. 
CHUCK QUIRK, an engineer for the International Business Com­pany, doing well. RUBEN GRUN­DEMAN, also in town but we can't find his whereabouts. BILL MURPHY, was last heard of with the New York Sun. BILL SHERI­DAN, is in Fordham Law School ^\•ith BOB HUGHES, ex. '34, "TWEET" HOGAN, '35, and MIKE SANTULLI, '35. 
The t\vo CACCIATORES, also do­ing social work for the state. Atten­tion FATHER MURRAY. 
Incidentally JACK EGAN, men­tioned above, ^vill be heard crooning on Major Bowes Amateur Hour, Dec 
8. Tune in and hear our budding songster. 
Night after night we met BILL COLLINS, FRANK HONERKAMP (working for his father), JOHN DONNELLY (and the Mrs.), JIM GLEASON (and his Mrs.), RED FORREST (with G. E. m Bridge­port), GEORGE O'BRIEN, (working for Lion Brewery of New York) and TOM BROBSON from Buffalo, in the McAlpin Grill. Also saw many old grads, BOB MONAHAN, '33, from Worcester, JOHN CARBINE, '35, LOUIS GROSSO, '35, JOE CAREY, '33, and a host of others. 
Getting writer's cramps, Jim, so will have to close, no one else here will carry on. We'd like to hear from '34 men in this section. We have a register here in the Tavern and any of the lads who come to town can meet all the gang if they call here and let us know they are around. 
Members of the class of '34 will hear with deep regret of the death of the father of WELLS EOBISON in Milwaukee on December 3. The news was forwarded to the ALUMNUS by GEORGE VANDER VENNET, of Davenport, Iowa, formerly the "home town" of the Robisons. The elder Mr. Robison had been manager for the Yale-Towne Company in Milwaukee, 
JOHN PAVLICK writes that he is studying law in the evening at Du­quesne University while teaching in the daytime at East Pittsburgh High School, 
CHARUE SCHWARZ is in the Dutch West Indies with the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey. 
While BILL HOCKBERGER is with BILL LEWIS at M.I.T. They're working for advanced degrees, of course. 
ROMEO ALLARD, Ph.D. '34, is teaching physical chemistry in Loyola University, Los Angeles. 
BEN POLLARD, with his brother, WILL, '33, is a patent examiner in Washington, D. C. and living at 3348 Sixteenth Street, N.W. 
#i 

1935 F">>>^Iy> C. Hochreiter, 722 Livinz­
aton Hall Colambim Unir., New 
York City. 

Frank contributes beautifully and completely again. He writes: 
The class of '^5 considers it a sin­gular honor that it should be granted the privilege of having as honorary members His Excellency, the Presi­dent of the United States—FRANK­LIN D. ROOSEVELT and Mr. CAR­LOS P. ROMULO. 
During the holidays we met the Buffalo crowd and they all seemed to be enjoying the blessings of work with a little play thrown in for good measure. The local Christmas Ball was its usual success, financially and socially, and drew the largest alumni group that we have seen in recent years. Among the '35ers there were: JACK CONNORS, BILL MEASER, JACK COOGAN and DICK BIG­GINS. The two latter are working in Buffalo and its environs, though they hail from afar. DON LOVE and VAL KLAIBER also found time to break away from "work" to add their bit to the festive occasion, to­gether with FRANK CASS and MIKE SHEEDY. Mike says he still likes the snowy north even though sunny Louisiana is his workshop. 
Before we left for the holidays and some "catch-as-catch-can study," we received several letters and had a few visitors. 
TOM (Jersey) FLYNN left his card one afternoon while we were absorbing legal "pearls." He said he would return but to our knowledge he never did. (Always in, in the eve­ning, Tom—try again). 
We are grateful to MITCHELL SALEH for news on the southern contingent of our outfit. Mitch wrote us a healthy letter a few weeks ago, and, though he told us nothing about himself, he did volunteer valuable in­formation about some of the fol­lowing : 
JERRY GUSHING is continuing his engineering studies at the Massa­chusetts Institute of Technology. We expect to hear any day now of his taking over the responsible task of running the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Company. 
The fair haired boy from Oklahoma —GEORGE BARBER—is also con­tinuing the books and at the native University of Oklahoma. 
Since hearing that CHARLIE SCHILL is working for the PWA in Peoria, Illinois, we wonder if he has organized a band out of the govern­ment workers so that music will lighten their burden. 
TOM (Tall Te.\an) STANDISH decided to abandon his thoughts of becoming a Texas ranger and is now lassoing the latest in electro-dynamics in the Houston Power and Light Co. 
Since reporting PHIL JACOBS as working in an Alexandria bank, we have been reassured that he is an "honest lad" and would not think of taking home any samples. 
HAROLD (Butch) GOODIN has given up the goal of light heavy­weight boxing champion of the world and has settled down to real work in the East Texas oil fields. He is as­sisting his Dad down there. 
It seems almost futile to report what JACK BRAYMER is doing be­cause he has spent his summers "playing aroimd" the liquid gold as long as we have known him. We understand that Phillips Oil Co. has made that summer job a permanent one so that Jack will be drilling wells in Oklahoma until the fields run dry. He had an accident last year that cost him a couple toes. But word comes to our ears that he has made the company "pay and pay and pay." 
(Not a bad graduation gift. Jack!) 
ED VAN HUISSELING ivrites that, five days after seeing a "certain friend" he had his feet under a desk in the ofiice of Felt and Torrant Man­ufacturing Co. It seems that they make comptometers and Ed being a perfectly reliable A.B. man was some­what puzzled. But wonders seem never to cease as they are making an accountant out of him. He antici­pates attending Northwestern Night School next semester and "gunning for another degree." 
In our last number we mentioned that RAY KEATING was on his way to Washington, for what we were not sure. But now, according to his buddy CARL WEBER, we understand that Ray is assistant coach at Plateville, Wisconsin High School. 
HAROLD KOHLMAN, a fellow-townsman of Van's, has found success in his job-hunting venture. He is now-following his chosen profession as an architect in Chicago. 
During the past weeks we have had several visits from JACK DONO­VAN, the brilliant Irish orator of Walsh Hall. At first Jack was using his forensic ability to squeeze the widow's mite from backward install­ment buyers. At the present time he is exercising his Irish smile on the trade at R. H. Macy Co. We hear he may try law soon. (Good luck, Jack —you don't reah'ze how much you'll need it). 
The fourth floor men of St. Ed's will remember AL DAVID, ex '35, who used to live with PHIL JACOBS. Al has just finished at Agriculture and Mechanics College of Texas and is now working for the Gulf Light and Power Co. 
It has been brought to our attention that our bosom companion of Steve Bocskey's Bionomy class, VINCE HO­GAN, is "wowing" them at Fordham Law school. 
GEORGIE KRUG is attendmg Fordham law, too. Kno\ving George's ability to express himself in the na­tive tongue both on paper and on the platform we see great things looming in his future career. 
Our scouts tell us that JORDON HARGROVE is putting Dean Mac's market management course to practi­cal use -with Kenyon and Eckhardt, Inc., the advertising agency for such products as Yardley's and Kool Cig­arettes. 
We have never been able to get FRANK WELDON to divulge his oc­cupation. But recently a kind friend volunteered that Frank is working for a Cooperative Purchasing com­pany in Manhattan. TOM (Red) WALSH is also doing his part in the cooperative system of New York through his employment in a similar firm. 
Endeavoring to present something new and different each month to our readers, we dug up a wedding for this number. Quiet and diminutive, WAL­LIE LAYDEN, has taken himself to the altar with a blushing bride. He and his wife are residing in South Bend while Wallie is employed as a statistician in one of the govern­mental emergency relief bureaus. 
While pondering over a Tort case one evening we were pleasantly sur­prised with a visit from JIM Mc-DEVITT and BOB FORBES. Jim, as you know, is working for Standard Brands. But in addition he is at­tending Pace Institute, to keep his accounting in trim. Bob is covering sports for a Long Island newspaper and is living in Flushing, during the week. 
ED LONEEGAN is reported as leading his class at Long Island Med­ical School. 
Though JIM BARTLEY told us over the Army week-end that he was still job-hunting, it comes to us on good authority tiiat he is really cm-ployed by Paramount Pictures in the city. Perhaps he is going to turn out to be another Gable. 
BILL MOSS is another one of those fortunate creatures to be working for the government. Bill is termed a civil engineer for the WPA in Man­hattan. 
Having returned recently from Idaho, BILL MALLOY, ex '35, is again living in Flushing, New York and is an employee of E. H. Macy Co. Two more of our former "mem­bers," JIM ARMSTRONG, ex '35, and ADOLPHE PONS, ex '35, were seen in the "big town" recently. Jim is assisting his father in breeding the world's finest steeplechasers at Syos­set. Long Island; while Adolphe has found a wife and is living happily in Garden City. 
Just before our exodus for the west to trim the family pine tree, we took dinner with FATHER TOM Mc-AVOY, BOB ROGERS and LOXHS GROSSO. It was a more or less "farewell" banquet to celebrate the closing of books. Needless to say the topic of conversation was strictly Notre Dame. Father shares the law­yers' opinion—"that Columbia is no country club." 
We again pray your indulgence for more letters to keep our column alive. Here is for a Happy and Prosperous New Year, continued success for those in school and working, and immediate jobs for those still "on the hunt." 
Middle AVest PROCTOR fiUs out the HOCH'S contribution with the following: 
Thirty-fivers enjoyed quite an im­promptu reunion during the week-end of the Southern California game. From all sections of the country they came back to greet old friends, talk about the past and the life after graduation, and wonder at the changes on the Notre Dame campus. Your. Director spotted quite a few of .the many and records them here. Anyone we . missed please register complaints at 230 Walsh Hall, or via The Hoch at Columbia University. 
Seen in one "gang" were the COR­RIGANS, JOHN and JAMES, JER­RY FOLEY, DICK BALLMAN, and JOHN BURKE. John Corrigan is employed at Gimbel's, interior decor­ating department, Milwaukee. Brother Jim is trying to get a journalism job. John Burke and Dick Ballman are struggling with the law at Marquette University. Foley, ex - cheer - leader and genial southern gentleman, is em­ployed by the Cotton Coop in Mem­phis, Tennessee. He hopes to take a trip around the world on a cotton boat next February. 
John Burke tells us that BILL O'CONNOR is also at Marquette Law School. DON FELTS says he is un­employed but hopeful. 
Ran into JOHN JORD.A.N, ex-bas­ketball captain. John is athletic di­rector, coach of basketball and in­structor at Mount Carmel High School, Chicago, and doing fine. 
FRANK LEONARD, just begin­ning a new job with the Graybar Electric Company, Chicago, tells us that BERNIE O'BRIEN is getting along great as athletic instructor at Ridge Park near Chicago. 
WILL GORGEN says he is working hard for the Wisconsin State High­way Commission with address at Box 644, Rhinelander, Wisconsin. 
Then, we saw among others CLAUDE TURRICK, JOHN MOR­LEY, and JIM O'MEARA, but we didn't get a chance to find out just what they are doing. How about some dope, 35ers? . . . 
Almost forgot ART KORZENESKI and JOHN CL.A.RK from Chicago. They were verj' much in evidence at the game, too. . . . 
.A.1S0, FRED MORRIS, who is work­ing in a bank in Mexico, Missouri, WILLIAM COEN, and JOE KALEY, who is employed by a finance com­pany in Jackson, Michigan. 
At a recent dance at Rosary Col­lege in River Forest, Chicago suburb, I saw GEORGE DEMETRIO, JER­RY R.ANK, BILL BERNBROCK, TOM FLYNN, ART KORZENESKI, and JOHN CLARK. We practically had a '35 reunion on the spot. Tom is in the night law school at DePaul in Chicago. 
GENE O'BRIEN is with the O'Brien Varnish Company in South Bend. 
And JIMMY MAROHN \\Tites that he is assistant manager of the Pitts­burgh office of the C. G. Conn musical instrument company and is living in the Phi Kappa house at the Univer­sity of Pittsburgh. 

JACK GARNER is taking law at Washington University, St. Louis, and is a member of the jMpha Tau Omega fraternity. 
A'ia non-Hochreiter-Proctor sources we have dug up, as it were, the fol­lowing bits: 

ELMER BURNHAM, head Fresh­man coach of football at Purdue, has been appointed Tippecanoe County recreational director. He w^ill carry on his new duties, of course, in addi­tion to the previous ones at Purdue. 
Registrar RIORDAN reports that BILL ELLIS, of Tacoma, Washing­ton, has asked to have his credits transferred to the Harvard Graduate Business School. 
Whereas J.A.CK COOGAN has changed his address from Saranac Lake, New York, to 75 Henrietta Avenue, Bufi'alo, New York. In the latter city he's working for the du-Pont Rayon Company. 
PAUL STOLTZE is working with his father in the Illinois Lumber Company, Edwardsville, Illinois. 
AD.A.M DR.4YER, New Britain, is selling electric appliances for the Connecticut Light and Power Com­pany and is so good at it that the company turned a temporary job into a permanent one. 
JOE MURPHY is attending the University of Iowa's law school. 
MERLE SETTLES has connected with a good engineering job with the Indiana Bell Telephone Company in Indianapolis. 
CARROLL WILSON, Ph.D., '35, is in the research laboratories of the Standard Oil Development Company, Elizabeth, New Jersey. 
DICK BIGGINS is still in the util­ity business in Fort Wayne, and not in the East, according to correction by Editor P.A.UL DOYLE in his latest 
Catalyzer. 
McMEEL ELEaED 
Dr. James E. McMeel, chief Uni­versity physician, was elected presi­dent of the St. Joseph County Medi­cal Society on December 3. His as­sistant at the University, Dr. PaulE. Haley, was elected a member of the Societj''s public relations committee. 
CAMPUS AaiVITIES 
(Continued from Pasc 101) 
Wakefield were presented to President 
O'Hara by Mrs. Nicholas Brady of New York . . . Carlos P. Romulo has pledged that his three sons, who are now 11, 7, and 3 years old, ^vill re­ceive their collegiate education at Notre Dame . . . Van Wallace, of Mount Clemens, Michigan, who at­tended Notre Dame in '23-'24, saw the convocation from his cot on wheels .. . A broken neck,. suffered by Mr. Wallace in 1925, has kept him bed­ridden since that time .. . A demon statistician at the ceremonies timed the applause following the various ad­dresses . . . For the President, 45 seconds, for His Eminence, George Cardinal Mundelein, 35 seconds, for Mr. Romulo, 34 seconds, and for Fa­ther O'Hara, 29 seconds . . . Let's reverse the order and wish you a Happy Christmas and a Merry New Year which is the way we've always thought those adjectives should be placed. . . . 
NOTRE DAME LAWVERS 
The following are for addition to the list of lawyers contained in the December issue of the ALUMNUS: 
DISTRICT OF COLUJIBIA Washington Fox, John McDill, A.B., '09 1612 Montague St., N.W. Georgia 8417 ILLINOIS Joliet Duffy, Robert E., LL.B., '31 416 Joliet National Bank Bldg. INDIANA South Bend Searer, R. Floyd, 
A.B. '28, LL.B. '30 Union Trust Bldg. 3-3161 402 E. Bowman St. (res.) 4-5895 
MASSACHUSETTS Fitchburg Gallagher, Judge Thomas F., A.B. '76 20 Elm St. (bus.) MICHIGAN Detroit Slaggert, Alfred N., Litt.B. '21, M.A. '22 1632 Buhl Bldg. JIINNESOTA Detroit Lakes Schroeder, Francis C, os. '26 Becker County Nat'l. Bank Bldg. NEW YORK Brooklyn Taylor, Alfred A., A.B. '28 1282 Union St. New York Citj' Tighe, Edward T., os. '24 32 Franklin St. Waverly Clohessy, Francis J., LL.B. '20 OHIO Fostoria Marley, Francis M., 
A.B., '32, LL.B. '34 111% S. Main St. 624 W. Center St. (res.) 
Toledo McMahon, John B., A.B. '09 521 Board of Trade Bldg. OKLAHOMA Tulsa Lyons, Thomas D., Judge, Litt. B. '04 Box 2307 PENNSYLVANI.A. Sayre Cullen, James W., A.B. '28 208 Lehigh Bldg. "WASHINGTON Raymond O'Phelan, John L, LL.B. '04 Nixon Building 
The following are changes in the lawyers list: 
Chicago, Illinois Bachrach, Benjamin C. A.B. '92 2600 S. California (bus.) Shoreland Hotel (res.) Mid. 6740 
Toledo, Ohio Wetli, Joseph L., LL.B. '31 644 Main St. (bus.) TA 4232 717 Starr Ave. (res.) TA 0489W 

OLD-TIMERS" REUNION they were the guests of the Univer­(Continue*! from Pa^ie 'MU 
sity at a luncheon in the Dining Halls and soon thereafter proceeded to the sn-ara were music by the Notre Dame stadium where they were presented Band, a humorous address by Tom 
Daly, Philadelphia writer and humor­
to the assembled throng before the ist, who was a guest of the Univer­
game by Judge Eggeman. sity, a special exhibition of gymnas­After the presentation ceremony tics and club swinging by Paul 0. the Old Timers repaired to side line Be.ver, of South Bend, who was a seats, there to live again their own gj-mnastics instructor at Notre Dame exploits as the Notre Dame "Two­in the 1890's, movies of the Ohio Minute Jlen" won a thrilling contest 
State week-end, presented through from the fighting Southern Cal team. the courtes}- of the Centi'al Ohio club, The feature of the between-the­and movies of the Army game. halves ceremony was the presentation 
On Saturday morning at S o'clock of a major monogi-am to Father Mike the Old Timers attended a Jlass for Shea, '04, author of the music of the their deceased brethren, celebrated b.v "Victory March" by Father O'Hara, 
Father Farley at the Rockne Jlemo-after the resolution of the Board of rial altar in Dillon Hall. At 11:30 Athletic Control, awarding the mono-
The Three Members of the First Football Team Who Attenileil the Reunion. U'ft to rijiht. .Iuilf;e Nelson. Eil Sawkins and Colonel Fehr. 
Below are the Old Timers, with their .vears of athletic participation and present addresses, who were on the campus for the reunion: Duane. Dr. .loseph .1.. lSi)S-9!l. US .lelTerson Bld^.. Peoria. Illinois EKseman. .lohn \V.. ISilT-lilOO. 1201 Old First Bank BIdjr.. Fort Wayne. Indiana Farley. Rev. .lohn I'.. C.S.C. 1S»7-1902. Sorin Hall. Notre Dame. Indiana Fehr. Fnink. 1SS7-SS. tl2 Fehr Avenue. Louisville. Kentucky FitzKibbon. .lames R.. 1SS9-!I2. Newark Tru.«t Buildinjr. Newark. Ohio Fleminit. Charles F.. IS9S-00. Chicaso. Illinois. Clynn. Ralph L.. ISaS-1900. 1799 Scheffer Ave.. St. P.iul. .Minnesota Hanley, Frank X.. lS9*;-99. Iron\voD<l Roxid. South Bend. Indiana Herbert. Martin B.. 1SU9-1902. 2111 N. Summit. Milwaukee. Wisconsin HcrinK. Frank E.. IS9li-97. 919 E. .lelTerson Blvd.. South Bend. Indiana Hindel. William. lSy.7-97. Rochester. Indtan.l HoKiin. H. E.. 1901-01. 1221 West Rudisoll Boulevard. Fort Wayne. Indiana Ilollanil. E. U. 1S9S-99. :!!(; W. Saratowi Street. Baltimore. Maryland Lynch. Robert E.. 1S9S-I902. 1111 Case St.. Green Bay. Wisconsin MacNjimara. Rev. .lohn A,. 189(1-97. St, Joseph's Sanitarium. Jit. Clemens. Mich. Moritz. Charles IL. IS9(;-97. 1129 N. Brooklleld. South Bend. Indiana JlcNichols. Frank J.. 1S96-9S. 20 Wacker Drive. ChicaKO. Illinois. McNichDis. William J.. 1S99. 2:!0."> Commonwealth Ave.. Chicaiio. Illinois Nelson. Patrick J.. ISS7-SS. ISO Seminary Road. Dubuque. Iowa Niezer. Charles M.. 1S96-9S. UIOl Westover Road. Fort Wayne. Indiana O'Neill. Philip B.. 1S9S-1902. E. 13th Street. Anderson. Indiana Pick. Eilwin C. 1S99-00. SO.'.'X; Chestnut Street. West Bend. Wisconsin Pick. John B.. 1900-01. 922 Hickorj- Street. West Bend. Wisconsin Powers. J. Fred. 1S97-99. 10 Montrose Street. Worcester. Massachusetts Sawkins. Edward A.. 18S7-S9. Ill Glynn Court. Detroit. MichiKan Smith. Oscar F.. lS9:!-9.'i. 2702 20th Street. Rock Island. Illinois Sullivan. Joseph J., 1S99.1902. I:i00-i:i9 N. Clark Street. ChicaRO. Illinois Walsh. William A.. 1895-90. Iti-lS Broadway. Vonkers. New York 
gram, had been read by Father Hugh O'Donnell, chairman of the Board. Immediately thereafter. Father Shea led the Band in plaving the beloved "Victoiy March." 
AN EARLIER RENDITION 

The Transcript and Telegram, of Holyoke, Massachusetts, recently had the following item about Father Shea and one of his first presentations of the "Victoiy March." 
"Rev. Fi'. Shea, who is music super­visor at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York city, played the "Victory March" on the organ of the Second Congi'egational church here one af­ternoon a short time after he had composed the march. It was I'ight after the Second church had been re­built following the disastrous fire and Dr. William C. Hammond, from whom Fr. Shea had taken organ lessons some yeare ago, invited his former pupil to try out the new oragn. 
"Rev. Fr. Shea, on a visit here, ac­companied by his brother former-Senator John P. Shea, who wrote the words for the Notre Dame song, and sevei'al friends went to the church late one afternoon, where they met Dr. Hammond. The first piece that Fr. Shea played was a spirited march that no one in the group had ever heai'd before. But former-Senator Shea supplied the answer. "That's the Notre Dame Victory March we've just written," he said. And that march today is the best known and most popular with the public of any college songs. Rev. Fr. Shea gradu­ated from Holyoke High school in 1901 and from Notre Dame Univer­sity in 1904." 
THE RESOLUTION 

The Notre Dame board of ath­letic control, in awarding the cov­eted athletic monogram to Father Shea, passed the following reso­tion; 
"Whereas, the Notre Dame *Vic­tory March' is acclaimed nationally and internationally - as being sym­bolic of the spirit of Notre Dame, and 
"Whereas, the author of the words of this song, Mr. Jack Shea, of the class of 1906, is a mono­gram man in baseball: 
"Be it resolved, that the Rev. Michael Shea, of the class of 1904, composer of the music in the orig­inal and revised editions of this march be awarded a major Notre Dame monogram in appreciation of what this stirring composition means to Alma Mater and her sons, and 
**Be it resolved further, that this award be presented to the Rev. Michael Shea on the occasion of the gathering of the old athletes on the campus at the Southern California game on the 23d of November, 1935." 
;;:*i-.v^­

^mm-ru 
:j!<^>r 

liesterfields -. j^ I 
a corking good cigarette... they've been hitting the trail 
•'••••^/%4 

Wyftvith me for a lonp time 
They are milder.. .not flat 
or insipid but with a pleas­
ing flavor 

They have plenty of taste .. .not strong but just right 
f 
An outstanding cigarette .. .no doubt about it 
© 1936, LIGGETT & MVERS TOBACCO CO. 







