The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
UNIVERSITY OF 
.«-. «.-^ .^Ti< -ET-^'---;sr753 NOTRE  DAME  Volume 32  No. 2  
4  March, 1954  
,-lxj prmcDiCAL <REA3i:ca ROC:,!  James E. Armstrong, '23  


i-^->^M^.^mi£ .^••^•/^s^s^im 
UND Night, Class Reunions Highlight Alumni Program 
Club Presidents Return to Campus in June 
Universal Notre Dame Night, Class Reunion Weekend and a meeting of Alumni Club presidents will highlight activities for the Association during coming months. 
The 31st annual observance of UND Night on Monday, April 26 (or within the octave of the designated date) will be an occasion for 145 local clubs throughout the world to honor their alma mater with specially planned pro­grams. This year's celebration is al­ready materializing into the "best yet" category and many clubs will feature campus representatives as guest speak­ers. 
Complete reports of club functions on Universal Notre Dame Nis'ht will be 
SOLICITATION PERIOD UNDERWAY ON MAR. 1 
The 12th Annual Alumni Fund's personal solicitation period gets under­
, , way on March 1 and extends through May 20. Practically all of Notre Dame's lay alumni will be contacted by a committeeman or fund worker during this concentrated phase of the annual program. State Governors and City Chairmen who were on campus for the recent Foundation conference were briefed on the techniques and 'know how' of personal solicitation. 
Alumni participation in 1953 to­taled 47%, and with the impetus of personalized approaches by Foundation and Club volunteers this record should be exceeded by the end of the current calendar year. 
printed in the May-June ALUMNUS. 
Class Reunion Weekend will be held on June 11, 12, 13. The customary class dinners are being planned on Friday night (June 11) and classes will have their own other special events such as Memorial Masses. Last year attendance records soared to an all-time high which will undoubtedly be eclipsed with a strong 1954 turnout of reunion groups. 
Reunion spotlights will be focused particularly on the following classes: '09 (45th year). '14 (40th year), '19 (35th year).'24 (30th year), '29 (25th year),' '34 (20th year), '39 (15th year), '44 (10th year), '49 (5th year). Others, too, are expected back for the 
EMPLOYMENT 
An excellent employment op­portunity is available for TWO young Notre Dame alumni who are interested in University de­velopment work. 
Applicants should be approxi­mately 30 years old. 
Previous experience in public speaking, writing for publications and general public relations ore desirable qualifications. 
All replies will be opened by a priest and kept in strict con­fidence. 
Applications should be sent to: 
University of Notre Dame 
Box 81, 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
Editor John N. Cackicy, '37 Managing Editor 

festivities—the 'independents' who are not attached to any of the reunion groups. 
Events will be on an informal level and include golf tournaments, the Alumni Banquet and a real opportu­nity to renew friendships with class­mates after many years. The usual bargain rate of $20 will again prevail and will be within the family budget— and as we've stated before "it's cheaper than staying home." 
The Club President's Council, which has met on campus three times pre­\dously, is scheduled for Thursday, June 10. The most recent assembly of club officers was in 1952. It is antici­pated that most of the 145 club presi­dents will return for a one-day work­shop on programs, organization. Uni­versity policy and other important topics. 


Notre Dame Gifts Total $2,170,851 
Gifts and grants totaling $2,170,851 

were received by the University of 
Notre Dame during 1953 according to 
an announcement by the Rev. John J. 
Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the 
Notre Dame Foundation. 
Alumni participation of 47.7% re­flected an increase of 7.4% over last year and compares with a national average of 18% reported in a survey of 270 colleges and universities to the American Alumni Council. A total of $364,323 was contributed by 9,184 alumni. Father Cavanaugh stated. 
Other sources of financial support in 1953 included non-aiumni gifts, $462,340; research grants and fellow­ships, $602,734; and gifts in kind, $41,453. Included in the overall sta­tistics are three committed pledges amounting to $700,000. 
During 1954, Father Cavanaugh said, all unrestricted gifts to Notre Dame will be used for faculty develop­ment. 
McGoIdrick Elected President of Alumni Assoc. 
James G. McGoIdrick, '39, New-York City attorney, was elected presi­dent of the Notre Dame Alumni Asso­ciation by the organization's Board of Directors at their Januar>' meeting. Board members, who serve three-year terms, represent Notre Dame's 23,000 alumni and vitally assist in developing various programs for the Association. John H. Neeson, Jr., '35, Philadelphia, Pa., retiring president, was elected honorarj' president. 
Other newly elected officers include: Ralph Cor)!!, '22, Moline, 111., first vice-president; John W. Courtney, '25, Dearborn, Mich., second vice-presi­dent; Dr. Leo O'Donnell, '17, Pitts­burgh, Pa., third vice-president; and James E. Armstrong, '25, cvecutive secretary. 

Robert L. Hamilton, '34, Racine, Wis. (center), and James Haggar, Dallas, Tex. (right), members of the Commerce AdvUory Council, and Desmond Barrj-, a friend of the Uni­versity, were invested as Knights of Afalta recently in New York City by Cardinal Spcllnian. 

Football Tickets 
Alumni Football Ticket Distribu­tion for 1954 is basically unchanged from last year. The primar)' con­siderations are: 
1.
 Alumni Advance Sale opens on June 21. 

2.
 Geographical limitadons will pertain to the Penn, Southern Meth­odist games. 

3.
 Group orders for the Michigan State game are not being accepted. 


Full details of Football Ticket Priwleges will be printed in the May-June ALUMNUS. 
1954 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 

James G. McGoIdrick, '39 (center), was elected president of the Alumni Association at the January meeting of the Alunmi Board succeeding John H. Neeson, Jr., '35. Left to right: Hancy G. Foster, '38, retiring honorary president; McGoIdrick; Neeson, new honorary president. 

Sept. 25  Texas at  NO  
Oct.  2  Purdue at  ND  
Oct.  9  Pittsburgh  at  Pittsburgh  
Oct.  16  Michigan  State  at  ND  
Oct. 23  Open  date  
Oct. 30  Navy at Baltimore  
Nov.  6  Pennsylvania  at  Phila­ 
delphia  
Nov. 13  North  Carolina  at  ND  
Nov. 20  Iowa  at  Iowa  City  
Nov. 27  So. California  at  ND""'  
Dec.  4  So. Methodist at Dallas  

NEW ALUMNI CLUBS 
Notre Dame's rapidly-e.\panding alumni association has increased by four new clubs thus far in 1954. The new groups are Battle Creek and Kala­mazoo, Mich., Kenosha-Racine, Wis., and Rockford, III. '^ 
James J. Mahoney, '44, is the new Kalamazoo president; the AVisconsin group will be led by James Rice, '42; Robert Breska, '43, will preside over the Battle Creek club; and E. M. (Mike) Lorden, '24, is president of Rockford. 
Currently there are 145 Notre Dame alumni clubs in the United States and seven foreign countries. 
The Leahy to Brennan coaching changeover will be covered in a specially prepared ardcle in the Spring issue of NOTRE DAME which will be mailed to all alumni in a few weeks. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Governors, Chairmen Attend N.D. Meeting 
Sixty-three volunteer representatives of the Notre Dame Foundation, from coast to coast, met on campus, Febru­ar>' 12-13, and were briefed on the University's 1954 development pro­gram. State governors and city chair­men participated in various panel dis­cussions conducted by members of the Foundation office staff. 
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, president, spoke at the confer­ence's opening luncheon on "Notre Dame's Partnership with Business." His remarks were concerned with the Uni­versity's new program of inviting indus­tr)' to sponsor 45 additional distin­guished professors to the faculty. 
Father Cavanaugh on Agenda 
A discussion on the "Histor)-, Pur­pose and Organization of the Notre Dame Foundation" was led by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, director of the Foundation. The University's fund­raising organization began in 1947 while Father Cavanaugh was president of the University. The founder and first National Director of the Founda­tion was Harry G. Hogan, '04, Fort Wayne, Ind. Father Cavanaugh also outlined various aspects of the Presi­dent's Committees, office mailing lists, corporation approaches, wills and be­quests and giving through an insurance plan. 
Alumni secretary and assistant direc­tor of the Foundation, James E. Arm­strong, informed the audience on the alumni fund, how to increase participa­tion, the part clubs play in personal solicitation and the manner in which classes fit into the annual alumni fund program. 
Publicity and the Foundation 
The Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, assistant to the Director of the Foundation, stressed viewpoints on "Public Relations, Publicity and the Foundation Program." Enrollment policy, football publicity, non-athletic publicity and Notre Dame's greatest appeal to alumni and non-alumni were brought up for discussion. 
"Duties and Functions of the State Governor" were explained by John N. Cackley, Jr., in a Saturday morning session. Several state governors includ­ing William Sherry, Oklahoma, Grover Miller, Wisconsin, Joe Farrell, Penn­sylvania and William Schmitt, Oregon, 
told those present how they had func­tioned as governors in their respective states. James \V. Frick reported on techniques of the "1954 Alumni Fund 
Foundation Governor Grover Miller, of Wisconsin, outlines a few points to the Conference audience. Oregon Governor William Schmitt (left) and Colorado Gov­ernor James Hanlon listen to Grover's re­marks. Additional photos will be in the ne.\t edition of the ALUMNUS 
Personal Solicitation Plan." Represen­tatives listened to ideas for soliciting in metropolitan areas and in smaller communities. Organization of the per­sonal solicitation method was discussed in detail. 
The final topic on the agenda was a talk by the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C, executive vice-president, on "Notre Dame's Long Range Program." 
Tliosc attending the conference were: ­

Phil Bcrthiaume, Portland, Ore.; John F. Boes­pflug, Seattle, Wash.; William E. Boss, Jr., Had­donfield, N. J.: William J. Bossingham, Jolict, III.; Thomas J. Botzimi, Akron, O.; Richard J. Bowes, Kansas City, Mo.; James B. Brennan, Milwaukee, Wis.; Anthony W. Brick, Jr., No. Tonawanda, N. y.; Earl W. Brieger. Pittsburgh, Pa.; Louis J. Burns, Jr.. New York. N. Y.; Thomas F. Byrne, Cleveland Hgts., O.; Lawrence H. Baldinger, Notre Dame, Ind.; Eugene C. Calhoun, Los Angeles, Calif.; Leonard W. Condon, Rockford, HI.; James 
W. Costa, Springfield, III.; Paris N. Cowar:, Coral Gables, Fla.; Arthur D. Cronin, Detroit, Mich.; Charles B. Cushwa, Jr., Youngstown, O.; Wlliam 
T. Daly, San Francisco, Calif.; Jules K. de la Vergne, New Orleans, La.; John W. Oorgan, Win­nelka. 111.; Patrick .A. Dougherty, Minneapolis, Minn.; William B. Dreux, New Orleans, La.; James 
H. Dunn, Jr., Rockford, III.; Joseph R. Farrell, Harrbhurg, Pa.; Patrick J. Fisher, Indianapolis, Ind.; Col. John R. Flynn, Fort Wayne, Ind.; John 
C. Fontana, Columbus, O.; John J. Griffin, Jr., St. Louis, Mo.; James F. Hanlon, Denver, Colo.; 
D. John Hickcy, III, Davenport, Iowa; J. Frank Holahan, Ilollidaysburg, Pa.; Oliver H. Hunter, III, Eric, Pa.; Roger J. Huter, Louisville, Ky.; George .A. Jackoboice, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Karl 
F. Johnson, Indianapolis, Ind.; William D. Kav­anaugh, Washington, D. C.; Robert D. Kendall, Phoeniv, Ariz.; John A. Kramer, Dunmore, Pa.; James R. Martin, Chicago, HI.; John E. McAuliffe, Syracuse, N. V.; Dnnncll J. McCormack, Memphis, Tenn.; James G. McGoldrick, New York, N. Y.; Grover F. Miller, Racine, Wis.; Timothy J. Murphy, Jr., Hartford, Conn.; Charles J. O'Brien, Roches.er, 
N. v.; Donald F. O'Brien, Houston, Te-xas; John 
A. Pindar, Newark, N. J.; Cliirord E. Prodehl, Malvern, Pa.; John J. Reidy, Cleveland, O.; Rob­ert XL Rogers, St. Paul, Minn.; Richard W. Scal­lan, Cincinnati, O.; William C. Schmitt, Portland, Ore.; W. Edmund Shea, Dayton, O.; James J. Sherry, Jr., Flint, Mich.; William J. Sherry, Tulsa, Okla.; Joseph L. Shiely, Jr., St. Paul, Minn.; F. John Solon, Toledo, O.; William L. Travis, Ham­mond, Ind.; C. M. Verbiest, Detroit, Mich.; Leo 
B. Ward, Los Angeles, Calif.; John J. Winbcrry, Rutherford, N. J.; Henry C. Wurzer, Davenport, Iowa. 
Attending the NCAA Convention were (left  to right): Edgar 'Rip' Miller, '23, assistant 
athletic director at the U. S. Naval Academy; Adam Walsh, '23, of Bowdoin College; Harrj- Stuhldrcher, '23 (directly behind Walsh); and Joe Bach, '26, Pittsburgh Stcelcrs coach. 
March, 1954 
ALL OF THIS FOR $20 



CLASS REUNION WEEKEND 
June 11-12-13 
Class of  1904  Howard  Hall  Class of  1934  Morrissey  Hall  
Class of  1909  Howard  Hall  Class of  1939  Morrissey Hall  
Class of  1914  Howard  Hall  Class of 1944  
Class of  1919  Howard  Hall  Dillon  or  Alumni  Hall  
Class of  1924  Howard  Hall  Class of 1949  
Class of  1929  Lyons  Hall  Dillon  or  Alumni  Hall  
Friday, June 11  

General Registration—^Law Building. One fee, $20, will be collected at registration which will cover all of the general and class expenditures. 
Class Registration and Room—Registration will be in the halls as listed 
above. Weekend golf tournament beginning Friday. Class events scheduled on Friday night. 
1904—Informal class supper, Morris Inn, Golfers Lounge. 
1909—Class supper, Morris Inn, Golfers Lounge. 
1914—Buffet supper, Morris Inn, Golfers Lounge. 
1919—Buffet supper, Morris Inn, Golfers Lounge. 
1924—^Evening buffet, place to be announced. 
1929—^Twenty-five Year Silver Jubilee Reunion Dinner, Morris Inn. 
1934—Dinner, Lay Faculty Dining Hall. 
1939—Buffet, Rockne Memorial. 

1944—Class dinner, Vetville Rec Hall. 
1949—Reunion supper, Dillon Hall courtyard. 
Saturday, June 12 
Class Masses, Class Pictures (Election of Class Officers for ensuing 5 
years can-be held on -Friday- night,, or.on -Saturday, as-Class_wishes,)-­Golf Tournament, all day. President's Luncheon for die 25-Year Class, Lay Faculty Dining Room, 
Dining Halls. Box lunches for all other reunion classes Saturday noon. Progress Forums in the five Colleges of Arts and Letters, Science, Engi­
neering, Law and Commerce, Saturday afternoon. Tours—I. A. O'Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building, Nieuwiand 
Science Hall, LaFortime Student Center, Saturday afternoon. Movies, Washington Hall, Saturday afternoon. Annual Alumni Banquet—University Dining Halls, Saturday night. 
Sunday, June 13 
Low Mass, Sacred Heart with a Sermon for Notre Dame Men. 
ALUMNUS Magazine Vol. 32, No. 2 March, 1954 Notre Dame, Ind. 

Alumni Board Endorses Discussion Club Plan 

Members of the Alumni Association Board of Directors at their January meeting, listened. to the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh," C.S.C., Director of the Notre Dame Foundation, outline a pro­gram for the A.ssociation in the field of continuing educational stimulus for Notre Dame men. Briefly the plan proposes discussion clubs on great is­sues, which would be initiated and led by alumni but not confined solely to alumni. Father Cavanaugh stressed the need for keeping alumni educated by the University' f?)r tite how-to-live phases of their after-campus lives. The Board requested the University, through Father Cavanaugh, to develop a plan for this program. 
Recent Graduates Committee Chair­man Charles Russ and Committeeman John Walker reported to the Board on their recent survey of the 1946-51 classes. The Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president of student affairs, told the Board of the Student Senate organization and e-xplained the func­tion and purpose of the new LaFortune Student Center. 
The Board recommended that the 

clubs consider a Communion Sunday -close-to-the-date -of -Rocknc's -^calh ­(March 31st)—a custom already exist­
ing in some of the Alumni Clubs. 
Members in attendance at the. meet­

ing included: James G. McGoldrick, 
newly elected president, John H. Nee­
son, outgoing president, Harvey G. 
Foster, Joseph S. Morrissey, Luther M. 
Swygert, William C. Schmitt, J. Ralph 
Corj'n, Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, - John 
W. Courtney, Daniel Culhane, James 
L. Ferstel, Joseph I. O'Neill, Jr., John .^ 
E. Mclntyre, Robert H. Gore, Jr., Karl Martersteck and James E. Armstrong. 
• .4 
Entered as Second Class matter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post. Office, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of ' Aug. 24, 1912. 
Return postage guaranteed 







