The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

R; 'J^ 
THE NOTRE DAME 
sc ^^^^"^ ^ 
.<^^ '•••' 

p^o Uo/mtzenceineni 
• upper left) Recipients of hon­orary degrees, with Re)r. f, Hugh O'Donnell, C-S.C, '16. President. Left to right. Senator D. Worth Clark, '22; Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., DJ)., '11: Most Rev. John J. Cantwell, DJ).; Vers Rev. John Richard Hac^ett: Father O'Donnell. 
# Upper Right) Alexis Coquil­lard. in, '40, grandson of first Notre Dame student, son of Alexis Coquillard, II, '03, receives de­gree from Father O'Donnell. 
•
 Center, left) At the Alumni Banquet: Father O'Donnell, Ray 

J.
 Kelly. 75 ; Rev. John J. Cav­anaugh, CS.C, '23, Vice Presi­dent: Lewis J. Murphy, '26. 


(South Bend Tribune Picture) 
# Center, right) At the Alumni Banquet: Clarence E. "Pal" Man-ion, '22: Daniel E. Hilgarlner, Jr.. 
77. (South Bend Tribune Pictiure) 
•
 Bottom) Members of 1915 class gather for Silver Anniversary pic-' lure. (See 1915 neas for identifica­tion.) 

•
 Lower left) The Senior flag is blessed by Father O'Donnell fol­lowing Baccalaureate Mass. 




Vol. 18 JUNE. 1940 No. 8 


eirr/ 

The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
Anonymous, for the Library of Medieval Studies ,.$ 1,000.00 
From the General Outdoor Advertising Company, South Bend,-for the ' College of Commerce. "Urban Markets and Retail Sales," by John 
E. Brennan. 

From Mr. A. B. Curran, '16, Rochester, N. Y., for the College of Law. Thirty printed copies of "Record on Appeal to the Appellate Division.". 
From Mr. Hugh C. Mitchell, '95, Washington, D. C, for the archives of the University. "Notes Relating to Admiral Peary's North-Pole Observations." 
From Mr. Shane Leslie, London, England, for the archives of the Uni­versity. The original manuscript of his recent "Life of Mrs. Fitzher­
• bert," and corrected proofs of her Letters. 
From'Rev. Raymond W . Murray, C.S.C, '18, Notre Dame, Indiana, for the University Art Galleries. A collection of ivory carvings from St. Lawrence Island, Alaska. Some of the objects of this primitive art are pre-Christian. .-—"";_ • ' 
From Prof. E. J. Maurus, '93, South Bend, for the.University Library. His personal library on mathematics. ••^V-.; •: 
FOR THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
(From April 25 to June 19, inclusive) ' 

Anonymous $ 1,000.00 Anonymous . 1,000.00 Daniel DeRocco, Monessen, Pa , 4.00 William F. Lomasney, '33, Oklahoma City, Okia .. 5.00 James A. Touhey, Chicago 10.00 
Total :. 2,019.00 Previous Total ... 259,857.66 
Grand Total . $261.876.66 

FOR THE JULIUS A. NIEUWLAND MEMORIAL FOUNDATION 
Anonymous . $ {.,000.00 Arthur A. Baum, '36 - -' ' 20.00 
Total ..1 . 1,020.00 Previous Total . 73,780.25 
Grand Total $ 74,800.25 
• (Sig.) J. HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C, President. 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This mssoxine ia published monthly from October to June, inclusive (except January), by the University of Notre Dame, 
Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1. 1939, at the Poatoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, under the 
act of Au^s t 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. 
JAMES E. ARMSTHONC, "25, EShr; WILUAM R. DOOLEY. 76, Mtaiagmg Editor 
Vol. 18 JUNE. 1940 No. 8 

Ninety-Sixth Commencement Hits New High 
Largest Class; Largest Alumni Group Returned; Outstand­ing Commencement Address by Alumnus-Senator Clark; 
Interest 

A Senior Class shattering tlie record with 659 degrees.... 
An alumni registx-ation of 926, which exceeded the 1939 registi-ation by 25 per cent. . . . 
A special week-end pi'ogram in the department of biology which attracted 478 
A "symposium of peace" program for the Alumni Banquet, presenting Bishop O'Hara, Commander Eay Kelly, Com­mander Lewis Murphy, Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, and special toastmaster "Pat" JVIanion to a capacity crowd of 1,000 alumni and guests. . . . 
A Gymnasium crowded with 6,000 persons to hear United States Senator Da\id Worth Clark, '22 
The same Gyninasium almost equally crowded the morning of the same day for a Baccalaureate Mass and Arch­bishop Cantwell's sermon. .. . 
Smokei-s . . . golf . . . swimming . . . biiseball . . . and the thousand personal details that go into a Commencement 
And you have some idea of the 96th Annual Commencement of the Univer­

 in Cultural and Spiritual Programs Significant 
sity of Notre Dame from the alumni angle. 
The ALUMNUS reprints in this issue most of the addresses of the week-end, which in themselves are eloquent testi­mony of the real contribution which the Commencement made to those who at­tended. 
The inti'oduction of a more serious note met with much more favorable re­action than was anticipated, and was not only encouraging in itself but seemed to impart a brighter luster to the customary features of the occasion. 
Early Registration 

The Thursday holiday gave many alumni an early start, registration began early Friday and continued al­most steadily through Saturday. Dismal weather found no counterpart in the returning alumni, the latter scoring a warm, sunny victory on Sunday after two days of struggle. 
The golf course took its percentage of visitors Friday. After two days of driving and putting, an .A.lumni Office idea of shifting the Commencement tournament to.an inter-city competition was blasted a bit by the one-two victory of the Fehligs, Vince and Lou, from St. Louis. 
The 1935 delegation, headed by Mr. and Mrs. Scribe (nee Hochreiters), headed the attendance records, with 151 registrations, as against 117 for the 5-Year Class last year. 
The 10-Year Class of 1930, mar­shalled by dynamic Bob Hellrung, brought back 134 registered members as against 99 a year ago for the '29ers. 
(The Alumni Office wants to say in this general write-up that both Hellrung and Hochreiter had planned Blitzkrieg reunions which had to be tempered to the Downing Street traditions of our week-end panorama, but those boys de­serve much more credit than probably most of you gave them, and the Alumni Office regretted sincerely having to seemingly pin back ears bent so at­tentively to oiir pleas for action.) 
The 15-Year Class of 1925 cracked some kind of a record by bringing back 85 registered members as against the 
Archbishop Cantwell Preaches; Bishop O'Hara Father O'Donnell Award* Degrees; Largest Pontificates at Baccalaureate Mass Class Receives 659 Diplomas 
34 attendance chalked up last year by the '24's Fifteenth. 
The Commencement attendance as a whole, was double that of 1930, which gives you some idea of the difficulty in keeping our system of handling details up to par or precedent. 
Reunion Dinner and Smoker 
Some idea of the preponderance of younger alumni in the Association can be gathered from the fact that there were more alumni back for the period from 1915 to '20 than from all the years preceding '15. 
As a result the very youthful '15 men assembled for their 25-Year Dinner as the patriarchs of the Commencement. The dinner, held in the University Din­ing Halls, was presided over by Eay Eichenlaub, later named president of the Association. Featured were addresses by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, and Rev. 
Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C, former pres­ident of the University. Tribute was paid to the deceased members of the Class. Jim Sanford, Class Secretary, was properly commended for a fine job on the Class column. 
Music filled the air for the visitors 
•while much of the above was going on. The University Band, under Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, '23, filled the Quadrangle with the familiar melodies of Notre Dame and various concert com­posers. Later, in Washington Hall, the University Symphony, under the direc­tion of Prof. Daniel Pedtke, played to an interested audience. 
As the evening waned for the formal program, it waxed for the '35 Class, who met in the Brownson Hall recToom for a smoker. Reminiscence, recreation and refreshment aided reunion. 
And in the lobby of Morrissey, the vanguard of the 10-Year Class met to go into strict ti-aining for their own smoker 24 hours later. 
Wliile in Lyons, which was just an imaginary line between Kervick and Fagan when the Class of '25 was grad­uated, that bewildered group was spend­ing a sleepless night working up an ap­petite for its coming luncheon. 
Saturday morning the Class of 1940 presented a preview, parading in cap and gown first to Sacred Heart Church where Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C, pre­sided at the private ceremony of the Last Visit, and then to Washington Hall, where the Class Day Exercises and Award of Prizes were held. 
At 11 o'clock, on the storied field be­tween Walsh and Badin, youth had its fling in a Softball game, '35 doing a rather thorough job of taming their 10­Year challengers. Pitchers ebbed and flowed like Dizzy Dean, but the batters held on with that Salvation Army tenac­ity that gets a man down but never out. 
At 12 noon, the 15-Year Class of '25, hungry as of yore, assembled for a luncheon. The menu did a great deal to explain the Alumni Secretary's waist­line to some of the Classmates who re­membered him, if at all, as a guy who could hide behind Layden. 
Two P.M. found Notre Dame's varsity nine, that's a baseball team, meeting Michigan State for a M.S.C. victory on Cartier Field. (Confidential note to Jake Kline: they did that in '39, too. Whose Commencement is it?) At any rate, a new high was set in attendance, which may bring 1941 back with renewed moi-ale. 
Probably the piece de resistance, if w-e must show Allied sympthies, of the entire week-end, for alumni, was the alumni banquet, on Saturday night. The East Hall of the Dining Hall was filled for the occasion. The head table, al­most all alumni, bowed to no other head table for the caliber of its occupants. Church, educational, governmental, and fraternal leaders contributed to the oc­casion. Since the talks of the Banquet are reprinted in this issue, little remains to be said to convey the importance of this session as an indication of the suc­cess of Notre Dame as exemplified in the one unfailing measure of success, her alumni. The -Association is indebted to Bishop O'Hara, Ray Kelly, Lew Mur­phy and Pat Manion for their part in its success, though each; as an Jumnus, accepted the burden willingly. We are 
indebted to Father O'Donnell not only for his address at the banquet, but for the banquet itself, at which the Univer­sity was host, a burden of expense, wil­lingly assumed, but which the Associa­tion feels has long since become too great, and which, next year, will be an Association expense. 
Saturday Evening Busy One 
President Daniel Hilgartner presided at the opening of the banquet, and the annual report, list of deceased alumni, report on placement progress, etc., were contained in a printed program distrib­uted to those attending. 

Music again played its part in sooth­ing those omitted from the banquet — including the Class of '40, which had its Senior-Alumni Banquet in May. Prof. Casasanta's bandmen again made the Quadrangle ring with a versatile reper-­toire. And the Glee Club, under the direction of Prof. Pedtke, presented its annual program in Washington Hall. 
Following the Alumni Banquet, the Class of 1930 held a smoker in Brown-son Eec, with a number of guests from other Classes. Here again, the feeling of fellowship was the predominating factor, abetted by fun and food. 
Sunday, in keeping with tradition, was 

At the Alumni Banquet; 1,000 Crowd Dining Hall largely a day devoted to the Senior cere­
(Continued on PaRe 278) 

to Hear Great Program of Speeches 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
The Commencement Address 
By DAVID WORTH CLARK, '22, LLD., '40 United States Senator 
Distinguished Alumnus Warns 1940 Class that It Faces 
World's Greatest Crisis; Challenges Graduates to Find So­
lution to Country's Paradox: Need in the Midst of Plenty 
." 
" , . > 
» -
' 
-
. Eighteen years ago, almost to the verj' 
 day, it was my privilege to sit where you 
are sitting now and have bestowed upon 
me by this great University a degree of 
Bachelor of Arts. That was a momen­
tous occasion in my life, as it now is in 
yours. I deem it a real honor after this 
 long flight of time—^which has seemed 
 so incredibly short — to be invited to 
make a few remarks today on this, your 
 Commencement. 
 The world has changed much in these 18 years and I think I may say to you, without any desire to be unduly gloomy, that the Class of 1940 faces a new era  in the history of mankind, and probably the greatest crisis that our civilization  has ever known. The larger number of you will leave the cloisters of this calm and magnificent University today to enter a world changing with such kaleid­oscopic rapidity that the stresses, strains, and conflicts of even a few months are greater than those of many years in the  world we knew 18 years ago. 
Responsibilities and Opportunities 

Perhaps never in all the history of our Alma Mater has a graduating class faced the realities of life with more responsibili­ties upon its young shoulders than does yours. Accompanying those responsibil­ities, and in a measure growing out of them, opportunities of unparalleled mag­nitude crowd upon you — opportunities to take part, if you please, in what may 
 prove a gigantic struggle to save your religion, your country, and the whole structure of a civilization which the human race for many thousands of years has so painstakingly erected. It is upon you, and those like you who are depart­ing lives of contemplation and scholar­ship for lives of action and conflict, that the burden rests. 
Even had not the appalling cataclysm  of war shaken the world to its founda­tions, the whole future of America, as we have known it, as Washington. Jef­ferson, and Lincoln knew it, is at stake. Apart from the war, our whole domestic economy is at the crossroads. The tech­nological sciences, designed to be the servants of a free people in a free de­mocracy, threaten to become their mas­ters. They have raced ahead with such startling speed, and have created such a dislocation of our whole social and economic structure that it will take all of your ability and courage during the next few years to preser\'e capitalism and democracy as we know them in the United States. 
You are about to inherit the richest nation on earth, replete with resources. 
Senator Clark 

human and material, undreamed of by the richest princes of the past. All of the good things of life have been lavish­ly bestowed by a gracious Creator upon our country, in which you are about to possess your rightful share. Gold and silver — so much of it that the plight of King Midas may be ours; steel and cop­per and all of the useful materials out of which the comforts and the luxuries of life flow; wheat, corn, and cotton — so much of each we are afraid to raise more for fear of choking upon them; factories and transportation systems whose technical perfection and incred­ible efficiency are the man'els of the century; and last, but not least, IGO millions of sturdy, tough-fibered people, whose industry, courage, and ability are not surpassed anyivhere on earth. 
I have said that this is your heritage, and so it is. But not all of it. With these great riches you will also inherit the almost tragic failure of my generation and make adequate use of this wealth, as our Creator intended, for the peace, happiness, and well-being of our people. You will soon discover a nation impaled upon the paradox of plenty. You will be bewildered when you see the wheat and the cotton and the com rotting in the farmer's fields for the want of a market, and yet only a few miles away men, women, and children will be starving. Something akin to fear will overwhelm you when you behold the almost limit­less production of our mines and our forests within the very eyesight of peo­ple who cannot obtain material to erect shelters over their heads to keep out the chill blasts of winter. You will wonder why ten millions of sturdy men and women cannot find sufficient employment to buy bread and milk for their loved ones in this great national reservoir of plenty. 
A Fearful Paradox 

My generation, too, stands in horror and amazement at this fearful paradox. We have struggled with all the energies at our command to solve these problems. Only the pen of the future historian will impartially record the net result of our effort. 
And w^e are not through. .\s long as the slender thread of life holds together, we, too, shall devote our best thought and energy in further effort to find what is wrong in a social and economic system that permits so much want in the midst of plenty. 
I am afraid, however, that you young men will soon be bearing the heat and the burden of the day. The people of America will not tolerate forever a so­cial mechanism which functions so poor­ly on their behalf. All of your training: in sound economics, all of the vision in­spired by your matchless education at Notre Dame, all of your •\'itality, your enthusiasm, your youth must be thro^vn into the fray. If the struggle is then successful, it may be said that democracy can be made to work, even in a "blitz­krieg" age, and that human freedom and human rights can perhaps forever be preserved. 
Campus a Military Camp 
1 have painted you a melancholy and yet a challenging picture. I wish that I could stop there, but I cannot. In ad­dition to bending your energies to the solution of the multiple problems con­fronting us at home, you face today the possibility of the total destruction of the civilization of the world. The limitations of the human mind are such that, gath­ered here today as we are in peace and relaxation, it is impossible to contem­plate the frightful holocaust which is now consuming the rest of the world. Again, though, I cannot help but turn back the leaves of memory when I, as a boy of 16, entered my beloved TJniver­sit}' of 1918. I came here amidst the blares of the soldier's bugle and the rat­tle of his musket. Although many of us were under military age, this beautiful campus in those days was an armed camp. All students of the University who were old enough and physically fit were in that part of the Army of the United States known as the Students Army Training Corps. Most of these lovely and historic halls had been trans­formed into militaiy barracks. The ceas­less tramp of marching feet, the bark of army rifles, and the staccato commands of the oificers were heard ceaselessly throughout the day. I was awakened by the bugles in the morning and retired to 
the wistful notes of "Taps" at night. Hun­di-eds of young men of your age—many of them my classmates — had donned the khaki of the soldier and were en­thusiastically training themselves on this peaceful campus to fight what they were then told by older men, who did not have to fight, was a "war to end wars," "a war to make the world safe for democ­racy." What a travesty, what a hollow mockery are those phrases today! Well, many of those men of Notre Dame ac­tually sailed away, some never to return, but they fought and died for illusions and abstractions. 
Then came the peace. Again I can remember •v'ividly Armistice Day in No­vember, 1918, at Notre Dame. All was joy and merry-making. Civilization so we all thought, had been saved! But what a peace it was. Cunning politicians still playing their game of power politics upon the bloody chessboard of Europe, sacrificed the happiness of all of Eu­rope's peoples, \'ictor and vanquished alike in order to accomplish their cruel designs. Yes, that peace might have ended warj that peace might have made the world safe for democracy, but this it failed to do and the boys of America, the men of Notre Dame, who died for. that cause, died in vain, and the in­triguers sowed upon their graves the seeds of the present conflagration. 
Yes, it has been so long since the first World War. After four years of carnage and slaughter, after four years of the roar of cannon and the i-attle of the machine gun, after four years of a civil­ization gone mad, the first World War ended. Europe then found herself bank­rupt and bleeding, with millions of hu­man lives snuffed out. 
And what about the American soldiers returning from abroad? They left fifty thousand of their comi-ades buried in the blood-drenched soil of Pi-ance. They brought with them tens of thousands of others crippled and maimed, doomed henceforth to living only half a life, condemned to a living death. Many of these human wrecks are still Avith us, wondering With fearful irony whether they will have younger companions in their misery soon. Again, these return­ing soldiei-s found tens of thousands of young wives who would never again look into the eyes of the boys they had so re­cently married, tens of thousands of little children who would never know a dad. What a fearful price to pay for a duplicitous peace! And yet, deluded and gullible fools that we were, we thought it was worth the cost. 
The Threat of War 
But you may say to me, "War cannot come to America because our people do not want it." Some of us who are older remember well that we did not want war in 1916. In November of that year, the American people went to their ballot boxes and elected a president and a Con­gress almost entirely on the basis of the slogan: "They kept us out of war." And yet no sooner had the torches of election night burned out than the war i-acket­eers became busy, and in a few months we were plunged into the bloody con­flict. So you see how foolish it is to be certain that it cannot happen now, when it happened with such devastating rapid­ity then. A little propaganda, a few songs about the glories of war, and civi­lized men soon became a horde of brutal killers. 
This whole horrible storj' can, and may well, happen again, unless you young men of Notre Dame, and your cousins being graduated from hundreds of other universities throughout the land, prevent it. Unbelievable propaganda and pressure are being brought upon you now, and more will be unloosed 
soon; racketeers, if you please, older 
men who will not fire a shot nor risk a 
limb; sometimes cunning politicians mas­
querading as statesmen; sometimes in­
dustrialists who would coin their miser­
able dollai-s out of your blood. It is 
your task to resist them. As I hereto­
fore pointed out, America is great, 
stronger in resources—^human and mate­
rial—than almost any combination of 
peoples on earth. You must see to it 
that those resources are swiftly trans­
formed into military and naval prepared­
ness. If we have the will to do so, we 
can make ourselves so strong as to defy 
the world, but for your own sakes, for 
the sake of your country, and for the 
sake of what is left of democracy on 
earth, let me ux-ge you to take your stand 
here, and not on foreign soil. 
Vie^v Life Calmly 
And so as you journey forth into the world to gi-apple with the problems I have just outlined, and many others, too, let me urge you with all the emphasis at my command to look at life calmly and steadily. Such times as these tend to breed panic and hysteria. Some will try to drive your emotion in one direction, some in another. Only your own strong will and stern resolve can guide you safely between the extremes that will besiege you. 
In these stirring days the passion for change seems to predominate. The old fashioned things of life seem no longer to have their halo of distinction. Re­member well that to change is not always to progress. In this fast-moving world change and adjustment are, of course, always with us, and rightly so, but scru­tinize well those who seek suddenly to demolish the ti-aditions of our glorious past. When you meet them and are con­fused in thought and heart, return to the kind retreats of Notre Dame and there pore over the sound philosophies of sim­pler, yet deeper, minds of men who are lovei-s of God and who will speak to you in the authentic voice of your country. They understand human nature; they can sepai-ate the wheat from the chaff, for they have gone to the roots of life itself. They can help you remove your doubts and guide you in destrojnng the cancerous growths on American society, , without destroying its vitality. 
In conclusion, may I say that in some ways I regret having spoken so gloomily . to you today, particularly on an occasion which, under all the rules should be a festive one. I have not intended, how­ever, to paint you a picture of despair. On the contrary, the future offers you a great challenge. Accept it with hope. 
(Continued on PaKC 268) 

The Notre Dame Alui 
The Baccalaureate Sermon 
By Most Rev. John J. Cantwell. D.D., LLD., '40 Archbishop of Los Anseies 
Noted Prelate Tells Graduates of '40 that Modern World 
Wages "A Resolute War Against the Rights of Con­
science", Charges Them to Take Up Battle in Mary's Name 
It is meet and proper that Commence­ment Week in a Catholic School should be inaugurated with holy rite, and pomp of liturgy. Among the buildings that circle these lovely spaces is the College Chapel. It is the Head Master's Hall. Here He dwells Who is the Source of all wisdom. Who gives inspiration to the noblest activities of college life, and holds in His Hands the richest rewards, and measures out the holy punishments that men should fear. The tradition of the University of Notre Dame has long emphasized how much the spiritual is woven into every-day life on the cam­pus, as well as in the class hall. It is therefore reasonable to expect that the lessons and habits of college days shall be carried into a wider world to inspire generations of graduates with noble ideals and high resolve, even until the day is spent and the moon and stars for the last time come over Notre Dame. 
Dependence Upon God 

It is this realization of our dependence upon God, and of. our responsibility to Him that alone gives stability to life. A young man may be endowed with rare gifts of mind and body. He may have made a distinguished academic career, and have won honors in the school and popularity on the campus, yet with all these accomplishments his career may be a failm'e and his gifts of nature and grace become a power for evil and not for good. St. Augustine in the flower of his life, came to Milan as a teacher of rhetoric. He was a brilliant speaker. He added a charming personality to his literary distinction. He was in his own eyes and in the eyes of many admirers very much alive, and quite up-to-date; but in the eyes of his mother he was a young man in a living death. Speaking in later years of these days, he says to his friend Alpius, "Here we are with all our learning, fumbling at the latch, while poor illiterates who have God in their hearts enter by the door and possess the King of Heaven—^I filled my head with the wanderings of Aeneas and forgot my own. I wept for the death of Dido and 
beheld my own death with dry eyes." A brilliant man brought up in the Faith may be proud of it and declare himself willing to die for it. Learning will make a good man powerful for good, and a wicked man more capable of evil. The son of St. Monica by a life of self denial, redeemed the past and used his eminent secular attainments to make Christ known and better understood. St. Augustine became a master in the sci­ence of Divine Grace, and a champion of God's Ark in an evil hour. He has 
Archbishop Cantwell 

left us teeming arsenals in his WTitings to which the apologist for the Faith never goes in vain. So young men when they don the graduate's cap and gowTi, should at the same time put on Jesus Christ, and thus be able to declare with St. Paul: "I live, yet not I but Christ liveth in Me." In order to render this task more easy He "who was rich, be­came poor for our sakes that in His poverty we might be rich." Putting on Jesus Christ is not a mere acceptance of a code of laws nor a scrupulous loy­alty to the mechanics of religion. To live in Jesus Christ means to realize His abiding presence in head, and mind, and body. "Because we are his sons," says the Apostle, "God sends the spirit of His Son into our hearts. If any man has not the spirit of Christ he is none of His." 
Standard of Right Conduct 

Consicence should witness to the spirit of God, speaking within us. The stand­ard of right conduct is not regulated by utility, nor experience, nor political preferment, nor business success, nor pleasure. Conscience is a Divine Senti­nel whispering in the night that all is well, or mayhap that evil is abroad. It is a messenger from God, who both by nature and by grace speaks to us, as it 
were, from behind a veil, and teaches us and rules us by His representatives. The Finger of God from the beginning, wrote His law on the tablets of the human heart. It was not necessary for the state to pass a law instructing us that adultery is evil and murder a crime. The natural virtues flourished in Greek and Roman civilizations. The Conscience of Israel instructed by Patriarch and Prophet, was a lodestar for the chosen people in their weary wanderings. Car­dinal Newman calls Conscience "The aboriginal Vicar of Christ, a Prophet in its informations, a monarch in its perem­toriness, a Priest in its blessings and anathemas." He adds, "and even though the Eternal Priesthood throughout the Church should cease to be, in it the Sacerdotal principle would remain and have a sway." We are fortunate in living under a new and divine dispen­sation. Plato was bom in Greece and had Socrates for a teacher. We have the Church for a nursing mother and Christ for a teacher. A Christian home, the wholesome discipline of school, the example of the Saints, the teachings of wise and holy men, the perennial grace of the Sacraments are the helps given us to secure a well instructed conscience. The habit of sin, human pride and false principles, come to silence the voice of conscience and to persuade us, if it can, that we "are wealthy, and rich, and have­
need of nothing," when we should know that "we are wretched, and poor, and miserable, and blind and naked." 
You, young men, are going into a world in which the standard of human conduct is low, where multitudes have forgotten God, and wage a resolute war against the rights of conscience. Sci­ence and literature have united to silence its commands, its pleadings and its urgings. Public writers and college pro­fessors have indoctrinated the minds of innumerable persons with theories sub­versive of its claims. The "London Times" in a series of articles published in the early part of this year, has dared to look this neo-paganism in the face and to challenge, alas too late, the age of the humanists and the rationalists that forced religious teaching out of the schools and out of the homes. National and ciWl life have fallen off their Chris­tian foundations. The result is perhaps an amiable and able tj-pe of man, but not man whose devotion to the Chri-stian Faith is their outstanding characteristic. It is hard for a man brought up in an irreligious environment to grasp the fun­damental truths of Christian society, and to pay the price of being a Chris­tian, which means the acceptance of a doctrine and discipline hard to be borne by modem man. , 
Bible Called Into Question 

The growth of established unbelief is the storj' of the gradual acceptance of . standards other than Christian by those who should have held more rigorously to Christian revelation, and who should have worried more than they did when they saw literary gifts prostituted to anti-Christian ends. The Bible, once the sole rule of Faith for a multitude, was called into question and its author­ity was impugned. Then the Divinity of Christ became an obstacle to the li­cense that modem freedom vindicated to itself, Christ was given a niche in the Pantheon with Buddha and Confu­cius and the impotent deities of Greece and Rome. We. are solicitous for the secularism of Germany and of Russia; but there is secularism which dominated the mental outlook of so-called demo­cratic countries that is as basically, if 
less aggressively, in revolt against the Christian philosophy of life as Commun­ism and Nazism. It denies the spiritual in man and the primacy of its demands. Though writers grow eloquent about the broadening concepts of social service, and unctuously preach of the dynamic policies that make for progress, modem civilization has failed to make enlight­ened principles and lofty ideals flourish in the miasmic air of materialism. Is it not a singular thing that we Catholics, 
convinced that we hold in our hands the links of true philosophy as a golden chain stretching from heaven to earth, have not greater influence on the secular thought of today. We have failed large­ly to interest many who are sincerely engaged in a quest for truth and for light. They are accustomed to look everywhere for light except to the Old Church. They, it is true, have found errors in the teaching of the great phi­losophers of antiquity, and fancy that their search for truth in the teachings of the school of St. Thomas and the scholastics will only lead them further astray. It is no mean task for well edu­cated Catholics to show that Catholic philosophy has imparted into its system none of the weaknesses and ficklenesses that characterized the development of science among the ancients. 
Inquiry Among Laymen 
It is the wish of the Sovereign Pontiff in his Encyclicals that educated lajTnen should strive to find what is of worth in contemporary thought, and learn to appreciate the purpose of honest inquiry and the force of arguments, which have persuaded minds that are able and cul­tured. We have no right to non-suit without a hearing in Court the sincere endeavors of those who have not our in­heritance and training. Rather should the Catholic student make a synthesis of the things that are true, and patiently show where error and failure have been made. The Catholic Church is not in revolt against the modem age. Catholi­cism admits no manichean bias or a principle of evil. 
But it is not enough for the Catholic scholar to pay intellectual tribute to the. truths of faith, he must also bring to his religion the allowance of the will, which consists in making our lives tally with the creed which we possess. In other words, the scholar should be religious and the religious man should be learned. 

Here at home our people are not opposed to religion. In fact they know nothing about it. Except on social oc­casions they never see the inside of a Church, and while they call themselves Christians and are generous towards Christian enterprises, they have cut themselves off completely from the Christian fellowship that common wor­ship implies. The Church is being in­
vited to turn its attention to what the 
modem world calls the practical. It is 
asked to interest itself in the problems of society, the purification of politics, the entertainment of youth, and the de­velopment of agricultural life. These are good things in themselves, but they . are not basic, and people who dissipate • them think that everj'tbing would be right with the world if our statesmen and politicians could be forced to ob­serve the golden rule and march through life to the air of "Onward Christian Soldiers." 
It is true that a scientific age has dampened the ardor that stirred the live­ly imagination of youth in other days in its quest for things romantic. The secrets of the Poles have been yielded up and science h^is found that the Poles have few secrets to disclose. The long sought "Fountains of Youth" have been discovered in the pestilential marsh, and the "golden cities" of the conquista­dores have been found in tawny desert cliffs. Scientific development has out­moded the mar\'els of ancient mythologj-. A generation has emulated Daedalus in his flight only to meet over modem bat­tlefields and oceans of blood the inevit­able Icarian disaster. The further sci­ence has advanced into the temple of nature the thicker has grown the dark­ness and more unyielding the adaman­tine towers that guard her holy of holies. As a consequence the conditions around us are like that age of which Christ spoke when He said that troubled nations shall look for false Christs and false prophets. 
Whe Ne Leade 

Whence shall come the leaders for a new age, and what shall be their mes­sage. The banishment of religion from the home and the school automatically insures that the educated classes, the men of light and learning shall not be Christians. There are an increasing number of people with a frank attitude of materialism; but materialism must believe in something, — the things to be hoped for and the things unseen demand their tribute also from an empty heart. If men will not have religion they must have a superstition. That is the reason why we have new states based on god­lessness and primitive pagan tribalism. 
Panaceas and nostrums have put the world in the morass in which it finds it­self. Rationalism was once the measure of all things. It was a revolt against the Christian world view of God, against the supernatural, the soul and moral law. Men gloried in absolute freedom of thought and conscience. They subjected the rights of God to human judgment. Science, too, has had its day. It would destroy man's dignity. No longer would he walk the earth with the honor of an adopted son of God, or even with the glory of a rational being as in Grecian times; he is reduced to the narrow for­
mula of the laboratory and clinic. It leaves him free to read everything, to see everything, to hear everything. He 
(Continued on Face 2E8) 

The Notre Dame Alu 
.. . For Notre Dame'' 
Address given at the Alumni Banquet, Saturday, June I, 1940 by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16, President of the University 
Never in the ninety-eight years of her e.\istence, has Alma Mater looked out and found a world so weary, so wretched, so torn with strife, and so fearful of the future. The integrity of nations has be­come a myth; the most solemn promises are made only to be broken. It is a God­less world, in which human rights and property rights are too often held as cheaply as they were in the pagan era, two thousand years before Christ. 

In these dark times, it is especially fitting that so many of you should come home to Notre Dame and take your place once more in the family circle — that you should turn once more to the Golden Dome, under which you were imbued with the Christian concept of life. Here you learned the siniple, hardy virtues, whose practice should help you through the anxious days to come. I know that during the all too few hours that you will be on the cam­pus, re-living memories and renewing old associations, you will receive fresh in­spiration and courage. 
N. D. and Former Wars 

I have referred to the family circle, and, as members of that circle, I know you are deeply interested in the events of the family. As such it is my duty, as I see it, to tell you what has been going on here while you have been away, to explain how we feel about certain pressing problems, to say a word about Notre Dame's future. 
Uppermost in the minds of all of us is the horror of the European war. Like all thoughtful Americans, we are gravely concerned with the course that our coun­try will pursue. It may not have occurred to you, but the peaks of Notre Dame's history are shrouded in the mists of war. The Mexican War was fought when Notre Dame was in its infancy. The Civil War had just ended and the era of reconstruction just begun when Notre Dame celebrated her Silver Jubilee. The part Notre Dame played in that conflict is well kno%vn to all of you. As we ap­proached our Fiftieth Anniversary, there were being fomented in Cuba the condi­tions that eventually led to the expulsion of Spain from the Western Hemisphere. Of the Diamond Jubilee I need not speak. There are many men in this room this 
evening who were wearing their coun­try's uniform when they received their degrees thait Commencement, in 1917, in the presence of Admiral Benson, chief of Naval Operations. 
'We Do Not Want War' 

Now, as we approach our Centennial, the world is again at war. The United States is arming for defense, and no one knows what the future will bring. Yet Notre Dame marches on, as in the past. But how does the family of Notre Dame feel in this crisis? 
I believe I can speak for the present generation of alumni and students when I say that we do not want to fight an offensive war on foreign soil. We did that twenty years ago, when we tried to "save the world for democracy." From this perspective of time, we know that we could not even save the world from itself. 
We do not want war of any kind. No patriotic American would, knowin^y or willingly, commit an act that would in­volve us in war. On the other hand, in the event that the United States were invaded or forced to fight a defensive war, and the caJl comes, Notre Dame men will again be among the first to respond. Being Notre Dame men, they could not do otherwise. 
Meanwhile let the leaders of our coun­try inaugurate a strong defense pro­gram, with the proper objective in mind, and characterized by clear thinking and calmness. But what is more importajit. let all of us become united, in the world of intellectual thought, on a constructive social program based on religious prin­ciples, so that come what may in Europe, we shall have a defense measure for so­ciety that will A%-ithstand the inroads of a Europea,n state socialism — whatever form it may take. 
iVlma Mater looks back on almost a . century of tradition which has touched everyone of us who has ever been a part of Notre Dame. And, if we are worthy of the accolade "Notre Dame maji;" we are better Christians and better Ameri­cans for it. That tradition stems from the ardent faith of a truly great man. Father Edward Sorin, who had for the coimtry of his adoption a love and loyal­ty of rare beauty. 
You know the story of Father Sorin's coming to Notre Dame, in November, 1842, vdth his band of six Brothers, and how he found here a ten-acre clearing in the forest and one small building, a log cabin that was to be his home for months to come. His total capital was four hundred dollars. There were the extremely dark days ahead for this little group, when they not only had no money, but no food. Sorin's success was hard won, and it came slowly. Then in 1879, a fire destroyed in a few hours what it had taken Father Sorin and his associ­ates almost fifty years to build. One of the proudest memories in the history of Notre Dame is the courage and energy with which the aging Sorin set about building an even g^reater Notre Dame, almost before the ashes were cold. 
Apostolate of Selflessness 

Yes, the story of Notre Dame is one of faith and devotion to an ideal, of a courage and accompanying work that would brook no obstacle, and of a pro­phetic vision that saw the Notre Dame, of today. 
As I review our history, I am im­pressed with the thought of an aposto­late of selflessness, under the guidance of the Mother of God, which can be at­tributed purely to the supernatural. No individual, no group of individuals, no single administration, can take to them­selves the credit of Notre Dame's growth and development. This univer­sity-city that spreads its beauty and strength over fifteen hundred acres, is a shining example, under God, His Blessed Mother, and the founding group, of the adage "One for all, and aJl for one." 
In the light of Father Sorin's heroic struggles, and singleness of purpose. sometimes wonder if we Notre Dame men of today fully appreciate our heritage. Is it possible that some of us have be­come too self-complacent, a bit too will­ing to be satisfied with things as they are? A bit too willing, perhaps, to accept what Alma Mater has bestowed upon us without ever thinking of offering any­thing in return? I am not speaking now of the purely financial transactions that take place bet\veen the University and the student, although a few observations in this regard might not be amiss. I make them at the suggestion of the national officers of the Alumni Associ­ation. 
The history of Notre Dame during its first half century was one of dire pov­erty. That condition, happily has been alleviated. But do not let the sight of the University's splendid physical plant, erected during recent years, delude you into believing that an avalanche of in­crement has descended upon us. Such is far from being the case, — the fan­tastic tales of fabulous returns from football to the contrary notwithstanding. And right here, let me inform you that the net return from football for the past year was $296,000, and for the year be­fore $330,000. Hence it is high time to e.\-plode the fallacy of the "million dollar gate" in football, and it rests with you to help us do so. 
Self-Dependent 
Although many of her friends and alumni have been exceedingly generous— and for their generosity Alma Mater thanks them—^for the most part, Notre Dame is today as dependent on her own resources, that is upon earned income. as she was in the days of Father Sorin. Only tivice in almost a century has Notre Dame appealed to her friends for finan­cial aid: Once in 1921, when the endow­ment drive began, and again a few years ago, when it was decided to build a field-house in memory of the beloved Eockne. Her endowment is comparatively small. A mere $1,900,000, as compared wt h Yale's $104,000,000, Chicago's $72,000,000, and Northwestem's $53,000,000. In fact, a number of institutions of higher learn­ing have received in a single benefaction a larger sum than the total of all gifts to Notre Dame since her founding. 
Notre Dame's income, frankly, is in­sufficient for her needs. It will not sur­prise you to hear that the fees paid by the individual student have not been large enough to defray the expense to the University of educating him. But you may be astonished when I tell you that the fees cover only 60% of that cost. In addition, you must remember that it has always been the policy of Notre Dame to extend help, through the employment bureau, to worthy students who could not, unaided, receive the bene­fits of a higher education. During the last academic year, 857 students enjoyed this favor, which called for a budgetary outlay of $240,000. 
This particular outlay the University does not begrudge, but rather cherishes. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
for among her distingniished alumni and among her outstanding benefactors are men whose education was made possible by the policy. It is rather the preserva­tion of this consideration for the boy of limited means which we must seek now. 
How does the University continue to operate if the fees that it asks are in­adequate, and the endowment compara­tively nominal? The University has not only continued to operate, but it has steadily progressed until it has won rec­ognition from educators everywhere as a leader in its field. I think you know what has made that progress possible. 
Consecrated Lives 
Notre Dame has something more pre­cious than a monetary endowment, help­ful though that would be. It has had an endowment of flesh and blood, of men who have consecrated their lives to the end that the ideals of the far-sighted Sorin might be brought to fruition. It is hard to evaluate in dollars and cents what the services of the priests and brothers have meant to this University. Be that as it may, the fact remains, it has been very substantial, and has made possible Notre Dame's development. I ask you to remember this salient fact when you are confronted with the state­ment that Notre Dame is rich and needs no financial assistance, or that gold bars are piled high under the Golden Dome! 
Today, Notre Dame is on the threshold of her second century, a century during which her fate will be in our hands. Today, we are Notre Dame. From her we received our spiritual sustenance. From her, we derived our intellectual strength. To her, we owe an obligation no less sacred than our debt to the mother who gave us physical life, and who began for us the Christian teach­ings that Notre Dame continued. It is a debt that we can never fully repay. Yet, we can cherish the bond that exists between ourselves and Alma Mater, and draw it even closer for we are deter­mined to build an even greater Catholic university for the future. 
Do you know of a better way of serving God in an era when the Chris­tian concept of life is so rapidly disap­pearing from the world? Is there a better way of serving our country, whose government is one of the very few left that protects the integrity and dignity of the individual, because it recognizes the existence of the God-given soul with accompanying emphasis on human rights and property rights? 
In justice to Alma Mater, in justice to the thousands of young men who seek a Christian education, in justice to our country of which these young men ^vill become exemplary citizens, we must plan with vision, as Sorin did. Notre Dame cannot stand still; she must go fonvard to fulfill her destiny as an oasis of truth in the desert of false doctrine. 
We must go on improving and expand­ing the facilities of the University. The undergraduate division must be strength­ened and nourished with the traditions of the past. In the graduate division, there is still opportunity for further growth and development. We already grant the doctor's degree in seven de­partments and the master's in fifteen. Yet, a broad field of research remains to be explored, and this can be accom­plished only by an increase in endow­ment. I state this because graduate work produces no revenue, and is extremely costly. Yet it is a highly important divi­sion of work if Notre Dame is to con­tinue the prominence she holds in univer­sity circles. Moreover, there are the problems of a retirement fund and a sick benefit program for the lay faculty, which are becoming more pressing an­nually. 
Thus, my dear friends, you have an appreciation of the task that confronts the administration in its hope to make Sorin's dream come truer and truer. 
You Are Her Ambassadors 
The endowment of consecrated service, I think you will agree, has carried its full share of the load, and it asks no more than to be permitted to carry it. But the load, already much heavier than it used to be, grows heavier every day, as Notre Dame's general needs become more acute — I might say as Catholic American youth's need for Notre Dame becomes more acute. 
At the beginning of the second cen­tury, Notre Dame, which has always given without stint, turns to you for aid, and asks you to join with her in fur­thering the cause of basic morality and true knowledge. Precisely what the pres­ent generation of Notre Dame men can do to help her will be made known to you when the plans for the Centennial cele­bration are announced. 
Meanwhile, remember that it must be you and Notre Dame. You—I—each of us—owe a debt that we can acknow­ledge, if not repay, by being worthy of her. You are her ambassadors. You caji lead a crusade to further her benign influence, in making her known to those who have such great need of her. 
So, tonight, the sons of Alma Mater here assembled, reaffirm their loyalty and devotion to the Triad on the memorial door of Sacred Heart Church. It is quite 
(Continued on Pace 273) 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS 
Notre Dame students who will head University publications for the school year 1940-41 were revealed May 15, at the annual publications banquet. William 
C. MeGowan, Oakville, Conn., was named editor-in-chief of the Scholastic, campus news weekly. 
His new staff members include John 
W. Patterson, Jr., Pittsburgh, assistant editor; William Scanlan, La Crosse, Wis., news editor; James G. Newland, Wash­ington, Ind., promotion editor; Edmund 
R. Butler, Salem, Mass., literary editor; and Thomas B. Powers, Enid, Okla., sports editor. 
Felix Pogliano, Denver, Colo., was named to the post of editor-in-chief of Scrip, the literary magazine. Assistant editors are George E. Miles, Brooklyn; Joseph P. Carr, Gai-y, Ind.; and Erwin 
J. Mooney, Clarksdale, Miss. 
The Notre Dame yearbook, the Dome, published each year by the junior class, will have Neal J. McCarty, Kaukauna, Wis., for editor. Other assistants are: Samuel Boyle, Lansford, Pa., managing editor; John Garvey, New Eochelle, N. Y., assistant editor; James P. Burke, New York City, sports editor; and, Mat­thew A. Byrne, New York City, campus editor. 

Dome awards to seniors for out­standing extra - curricular accomplish­ment were presented to Gei-ard K. Donovan, Tulsa, Okla., president of the Student Council; Gerald J. Flynn, Rochester, N. Y., head cheer leader and member of the campus dramatics organ­ization; William C. Fay, Mt. Lebanon, Pa., editor of the Scholastic and captain of the tennis team; and, Albert P. Funk, La Crosse, Wis., president of the Wrang­lers, forensic organization. 
John M. Broderick, AUentown, Pa., and Donald D. Connors, Warren, Ohio, each won 25 dollars for outstanding con­tributions in prose and poetry, respec­tively, to Scrip. 
Awards were made by Rev. Leo L. AVard, C.S.C, Rev. Cornelius J. Laskow­ski, C.S.C, and Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C, faculty advisors, respectively, of Scrip, the Scholastic, and the Dome. 
Lieut. Gen. Hugh A. Drum, of New York City, commander of the second corps area, received the 1940 Laetare medal. May 12, at a private ceremony in the New York home of Most Rev. Fran­cis J. Spellman, D.D., archbishop of New York. Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, pre­sented the medal. 
In presenting the medal. Father O'Donnell stressed America's desire to remain aloof from the conflict raging in Europe and praised Gen. Drum's Chris­tian example and leadership in the American army. 
Lieut. Gen. Robert Lee Bullard, re­tired, a close personal friend of Gen. Drum, spoke on behalf of the recipient. Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., Auxiliary Bishop of the Army and Navy and former president of Notre Dame, attended. 

Six former Laetare medalists resident in the incinity of New York were also present. They were ex-Gov. Alfred E. Smith, Dr. James J. Walsh, M.D., Mrs. Margaret Anglin, Richard Reid, editor of the Catholic News of New York, and Charles D. Maginnis, Boston architect. 
Lecturers during May included T. J. Carney, Chicago, president of Sears, Roebuck & Co., who discussed merchan­dising problems before Commerce stu­dents; Dr. Bruno Rossi, professor of physics at the University of Chicago, who spoke before the weekly physics colloquium in Science Hall; Wilbur Helm, Chicago economist; K. B. Elliot, vice-president of the Studebaker Cor­poration; Prof James Franck, of the Physics and Chemistry departments of the University of Chicago and 1925 win-
CORRECTION 

A proofreading oversight caused a serious omission from "The Educational Frontier," the Universal Notre Dame Night address of Rev. J. Hugh O'Don­nell, C.S.C, president of the University, as printed in the May ALUMNUS. In the first sentence of paragraph five, this sentence appeared: "It is surprising that the frontiersmen insisted on this Chris­tion concept of education." The sentence should have read: "It is not surprising that the frontiersmen insisted on this Christian concept of education." 
ner of the Nobel physics award; and. Dr. Alejandro Bunge, economist for the gov­ernment of Argentina, South America, and professor in the University of Buenos Aires, who delivered a series of lectures. 
Three high school students survived in a field of 20 entrants to win the sixth annual Wranglers-sponsored Notre Dame Catholic oratorical contest held in the Gushing Hall of Engineering auditorium the week-end of April 27 and 28. 
Jack Hisey, Hammond, Ind., Catholic Central, won first place. Second honors went to Joseph Schwartz, Pio Nono High school, St. Francis, Wis. Robert Mc-Nulty, Mt. Carmel High school, Chicago, took third place. 
Judges for the finals, in which six boys contested, were William J. Coyne, head of the department of speech at Notre Dame; Rev. W. A. Bolger, C.S.C, of the Notre Dame mission band; and, Albert Funk, La Crosse, Wis., president of the Wranglers, student speech society. 
Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C, prefect of discipline at the University, Gerard 
K. Donovan, Tulsa, Okla., and Burley C Johnston, Fort Smith, Ark., senior students, attended a dinner given by Alfred P. Sloan, Jr., chairman of Gen­eral Motors corporation, in the General Motors building at the World's Fair in New York City, May 6. The dinner marked the opening of the General Motors activities at the Fair for this year. The Notre Dame representatives joined with hundreds of other college representatives to hear youth problems of the present and the future discussed by business leaders. 
Dr. George B. Collins, professor of physics at Notre Dame, has been elected a fellow of the American Physical Soci­ety for significant contributions to the advancement of scientific knowledge in the field of physics. Dr. Collins was especially recognized for his experiments with far ultra-violet rays and for tests conducted in the Notre Dame high volt­age laboratory in which atoms were dis­integrated and made radio-active by bombing them with electrons having energies of 1,000,000 volts. 
The 1940 Football Ticket Regulations 
Careful Reading of Resulations Will Avoid Most of the Misunderstandings. 
Following are several sections pre­pared by the Athletic Association gov­erning football ticket sales. Careful study of these regulations will eliminate much of the grief and mutual embarrass­ment that accompanies each football season. The prime rule is "Order early!" 
Season Tickets 

The 1940 season ticket sale for the games to be played in the Notre Dame Stadium will open June 20. The fol­lowing is the home schedule for 1940: 
OCTOBEat 5—COLLEGE OF THE PACIFIC. 
OCTOBER 12—GEORGIA TECH. 
OCTOBER 19—CARNEGIE TECH. 
NOVEMBER 16—IOWA. 

The price of a season ticket is $10.00, plus Federal ticket tax. Under the sea­son ticket plan, all applicants are treated alike. There is no special section for alumni. Each year the season ticket pur­chaser has the right to reserve the same seat as in the preceding year, and also to take advantage of any vacancies that might occur toward the center of the field. 
The General Alunzni Sale 

1. Ticket applications for the 1940 football games will be mailed July 20. 
THE SALE OF TICKETS OPENS AUGUST 1. 
2.
 -A.pplications will be mailed to all alumni on the ALUMNUS mailing list, at the address used in that list. If you have not received your blanks by August 1, notify the Alumni Office. 

3.
 Applications are printed expressly for alumni, with the word ALUMNI across one end. These are the only blanks which receive checking for alumni preference, so use them. 

4.
 Alumni whose contribution to the Association for the year 1940-41 has been made (payable as of June 1, 1940), will receive preference in the allotment of FOUR TICKETS each until September 15, 


OR UNTIL ALL TICKETS HAVE BEEN SOLD 
FOR A GIVEN GAME. In the nature of Notre Dame's business relations with other institutions on the schedule, it is impossible to guarantee filling of orders for a preferred group after an an­nounced sellout. 
5. Again this year, several games promise to exhaust the capacity of the 
stadia in which they will be played. Alumni, desiring preference, are there­.f'ore urged to order their tickets as soon as the blanks are received. 
G. Alumni may have general public application forms upon request for their own use or those of friends, or may send in the names of such friends who will be sent the forms direct. (This latter prac­tice has saved many alumni time, ex­pense, and embarrassment.) 
7. Season ticket forms for the home games have been mailed. If alumni who have not received such blanks are inter­ested in this ticket,, which does not carry any alumni preference, forms may be secured from the Football Ticket Com­mittee, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
The New Five-Year Box Plan 

When the Notre Dame Stadium was constructed in 1929, there was devised a plan in which boxes were sold for a period of ten years. With the playing of the 19.39 games, the box subscriptions expired. 
The new plan is for the sale of boxes for a period of five years, at an estab­lished price of ?660.00 for the full period, including the Federal ticket tax. At this rate the value of the box for each year will be $132.00, including tax. for six seats at the regular box rate of $5.50 per seat. The University agrees that at least four games per season will be played at Notre Dame. When five games are played at home the fifth game will be free. 
The following is the installment plan of payment: 
$200.00 on September 1, 1940 $160.00 on September 1, 1941 $150.00 on September 1, 1942 $150.00 on September 1, 1943 

There are several advantages in having a box: the security of location for a period of five years; it is possible to place two extra seats in the box, which may be purchased at the regular . re­served seat price. The box, however, ordinarily holds six, but can very com­fortably hold eight 
The lessee of a box has also the right to purchase at regular prices eight seats with preference for all games played by Notre Dame away from home. 
GRANDSON OF FIRST STUDENT 
The beginnings of Notre Dame, its history and development and the lives of the famous men that have gone in­to its making were all recalled at the 96th Commencement on June 2 when Alexis Coquillard, III, of South Bend, grandson of the first Notre Dame stu­dent, received his degree in Com­merce. (See picture on - front cover of this issue.) 
Alexis Coquillard, II, father of the present graduate, was likewise a Notre Dame student, a member of the class of 1903. Mr. Coquillard, Sr., is a prominent insurance n:an in South Bend. 
Boxholders of the past have been given 

the right to reserve their same boxes, 
which the majority have done. 
Should any alumnus be interested in 

the box plan, please write to Football 
Ticket Committee for any further in­
formation that may be desired. 
To be a little editorial, Notre Dame has derived from a very happy football popularity an income which has pre­vented pressure campaigns among alum­ni similar to those in many schools where athletics are not profitable institutional­ly. Consequently, any cooperation from almnni, whether in the purchase of tickets, or in the willingness to recog­nize the rights of the many non-alumni who are also good customers of the Ath­letic Association, assumes the form of a contribution to the progress of Notre Dame. 
In certain games—this year it will be Iowa at Notre Dame, and Army, North­western, and Southern California away —the demand is far in excess of the sup­ply. Applications are filled unde: the regulations outlined above, with every possible consideration being given to alumni and other preference groups— season ticket holders, box-holders, visit-> ing team—any deviations being for the best interests of the University. This last point, if kept in mind by alumni, should be a source of mutual appease-' ment. 
MARIO PIERONI, LLB., '40 

One of the notable graduates of 1940 was Mario Pieroni, Muncie, Ind., who, though blind, was awarded, with honors, the degree of Bachelor of Law. A broth­er of Charles Pieroni, LL.B. '36, Mario was a popular campus resident for three years. He will practice law with his brother in Muncie. 
The awarding of Mario's degree was the occasion for an ovation in tribute to him at the Commencement exercises. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Pat O'Brien, as the film Rockne, poses alongside Rockne bust in Memorial Building. 
Campus Participates in Rockne Picture 
The Notre Dame of other years, years when Knute Kenneth Rockne walked the campus as a student and a coach, lived again as movie cameras followed Actor Pat O'Brien around Notre Dame's scenic and historic spots for several days of "shooting" in May for "The Life of Knute Rockne." 
The vanguard of the Pacific coast troupe arrived at Notre Dame May 13. Among the group were cameramen, di­rectors, technicians and electricians. Car­loads of movie equipment rested idly at the railroad siding, pending the arrival of Pat O'Brien, and of Donald Crisp, the actor who enacted the role of Father Callahan, the composite of the late Father John W. Cavanaugh and the late Father Charles O'Donnell, former presi­dents. Several scenic shots were record­ed on film before the stars amved. 
Students shed their aura of the mod­ern '40's and became the students of the 'teens and of other earlier eras when they were signed to appear as extras. Decked in the apparel of the past brought here from the Warner Bros. Hollyivood wardrobe, the students first assignment was to fill Sacred Heart church as Donald Crisp echoed again the words of Father O'Donnell's funeral oration over Rockne's body. O'Brien's arrival brought further scenes for the students as Rockne's classmates in cam­pus and graduation scenes. All stu­dent extras were employed through Comptroller Frank Lloyd and Edward J. Murray, director of student employment. 
Mr. O'Brien was accompanied to South Bend by his wife, Mrs. Eloise O'Brien, and both were greeted by Mrs. Bonnie Sidles Rockne,' the coach's widow, Jeanne, Knute, Jr., and Jackie Rockne. 
During his stay, O'Brien visited the campus dining halls and spoke briefly to the undergraduates. He delivered in the crisp, staccato style of Rockne's which he has mastered so well, one of the fa­mous "fight" talks that is the part of the picture. Mr. O'Brien was introduced to the boys by co-actor Crisp and the 1,500 present heard Pat say, "I am do­ing all in my power to carry on the tradition of a great man and of a great school. This movie will portray Notre Dame at its greatest" Then his voice changed completely as he injected the spirit of Rock through the spacious halls as he gave a few lines of the picture dialogue. 
Corby Hall, a residence of the stu­dent Rockne, was the setting for final location shots for "The Life of Knute Rockne" before the movie band packed up to leave for California's sunny skies. O'Brien's last stirring performance was played before eager movie fans as he mounted the steps to the Corby entrance as the student Rockne. After this bit of work was done he and Mrs. O'Brien entrained for Hollywood where but a few scenes remained to be iilmed. 
Notre Dame technicians on the picture who journeyed to California to give their assistance were Father Eugene Burke, Father John Cavanaugh, vice-president of the University, and J. Arthur Haley, as well as Mrs. Rockne. 
Neither time nor place for the world premiere of the picture has been set as this is wTitten, but early October and South Bend seem to get the most votes in varied discussions. 
The campus days of 30 years ago came to life as student extras, costumed by Warner Brothers, were employed for Rockne picture scenes. 
Seniors Receive Class Day Awards 
Medals, Cash Prizes Arc Given For Accomplishments 
Thirty awards for scholastic excel­lence were awarded in connection with Class Day exercises on June 1. 
Medal awards were announced for the following: 
The Breen Medal for Oratory, Thomas 
F. Cosgrove, of Chicago; the Meehan Medal for English, John William Mean­ey. Corpus Christi, Texas; the Jeanne D'Arc Medal for French, Brother Laur­ian La Forest, C.S.C., Notre Dame; the Cervantes Medal for Spanish, Thomas Philip Marker, South Bend; the Kervick Gold Medal for Drawing, and the Archi­tectural Medal to Robert J. Schultz, Oak Park, m.; the Dockweiler Medal for Phi­losophy, Richard L. Fallon, New Ro­chelle, N. Y.; the Jacques Medal for Fine Art, Donald B. DriscoU, Washington, 
D. C. 
Cash awai-ds for superior work in engineering, science, and playwriting, architecture, and journalism were pre­sented to: 
John M. Broderick, Allentown, Pa. the William Mitchell Memorial Award for Playwriting; the Msgr. Francis A. O'Brien prize of special study in a his­torical subject to Donald Francis O'Brien, Tulsa, Okla.; the Miles W. O'Brien prize for excellence in mechani­cal drawing to Henry Thomas Rohl, Ash­tabula, Ohio; the John J. O'Brien prize for excellence in shop work to Eugene Peter Kiefer, Snyder, N. Y.; the George 
L. O'Brien prize for excellence in chem­istry to Joseph Anthony Knaus, Red Lion, Pa.; the J. Sinnott Meyers purse for the highest average in journalism to John B. Willmann, Williamsport, Pa.; 
CAPARO RECEIVES BURSE 
Jose Angel Caparo, '08, profes­sor of electrical engineering, re­ceived this year the Alumni Association burse of §500 for distinguished faculty service in behalf of the University. 
Except for brief interruptions, Dr. Caparo has taught at Notre Dame since 1908. His latest rec­ognition will be applauded enthu­siastically by those innumerable alumni who have long recognized the brilliance of his mind and the genius of his teaching. 

the Ralph T. SoUitt prize in architecture, Joseph F. Hennessey, Valley Stream, L.I., N. Y.; the Gertrude S. SoUitt prize in architecture, Robert J. Schultz, Oak Park, ni.; the Aeronautical Engineering Award for excellence in aeronautics to Burt John Hall, Raleigh, N. C ; the Byron V. Kanaley prize to the most exemplary athlete was aw^arded to Herschell R. Ellis, Greens Fork, Ind. 
The Student Council cash prizes to the sophomore in each of the colleges of the University having the highest scholastic average for all courses in the freshman year were presented to William E. Meier, Faulkton, S. Dak., John D. Hogan, High­
land Falls, N. Y., John B. Carney, Des 
Moines, Iowa, John A. Reilly, Dorches­
ter, Mass. 
In the College of Law the Col. 

William J. HojTies cash award for gen­
eral excellence in law was given to 
Francis E. Bright, Franklin, N. J., and 
•the Gallitzen A. Farabaugh cash prize for high scholarship in law to John C. Hynes, South Bend, -who also won the Nathan Burke Memorial prize. 
The Goodrich-Cavanaugh cash prizes for excellence in oratory, awarded this year for the iirst time, were presented to Gerald G. Hogan, BrookljTi, N. Y.. John M. Hennessy, Louis^^lle, Ky., and Milton E. Williams, Elkhart, Ind. The Freshman Oratorical Award -went to Gerard M. Milano, Chicago. 
A special cash prize, given to the highest ranking senior in the 1940 class in memory of Leonard Cazzaza by his family, was awarded to John W. Meaney, Corpus Christi, Texas. 
HONORARY DEGREES. 1940 
Recipients of honorary degrees at the 96th annual Commencement of the Uni­versity were the Most Rev, John Joseph Cantwell, D.D., Archbishop of Los An­geles; the Most Rev. John Francis O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., '11, Auxiliary Bishop of the Army and Navy; Most Rev. John Richard Hackett, Kalamazoo, Mich., Vicar General of the Diocese of Lansing, Mich.; and Hon. David Worth Clark, '22, United States Senator from Idaho. 
The citations read for these honored dignitaries follow: The degree of doctor of laws, honoris causa, on: 
A churchman, long eminent for his apostolic spirit, his broad scholarship, his devotion to the best interests of his native Ireland, his many years of widely constructive work for the Church in the West, as chancellor of the Archdiocese of San Francisco, bishop of Monterey and Los Angeles, and First Archbishop of Los Angeles, his very fruitful promo­tion of the Catholic Action Movement in this country, and his inestimable ser­vice to the moral welfare of all our people as leader of the very efficient League of Decency—the Most Reverend John Joseph Cantwell, of Los Angeles, California. 
On one of the newest members of the American hierarchy, one well-known and singularly beloved by a whole generation of Notre Dame men, one who as student, priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross, professor, dean of the College of Commerce, prefect of religion, vice-president and president of the Univer­sity has contributed . mightily to the spiritual, intellectual, and material de­velopment of Notre Dame, a man of mind and action whose competence has been recognized by both Church and State—the Most Reverend John Francis 0*Hara, C.S.C., Auxiliary Bishop of the Army and Navy. 
On a priest revered for heroic service as chaplain to our soldiers in the World War, as successful champion of Catholic education, and as zealous pastor of souls, who by his rare manhood and truly Christian spirit has won not only the hearts of his own people but as well the esteem of the large non-Catholic com­munity in which he has labored—the Very Reverend John Richard Hackett, of Kalamazoo, Michigan, Vicar General of the Diocese of Lansing. 
On a statesman, a graduate of the University, of whom we are most prop­erly proud, esteemed by all here as student in the early tw^enties, since grad­uation a public servant who by devotion to principle and force of character has, against seemingly insuperable difficulties, won his way to high position in his State and in the nation, and withal an ever-loyal son of Our Lady, who in spite of crucial duties in this time of crisis still had it in his heart to come here today to honor, and as we may well anticipate, to inspire the Class of 1940, the University and this assembly by hi5 part in our commencement program^-* the Honorable David Worth Clark, United States Senator from Idaho. 
Ray Kelly, '15, Addresses Alumni 
Participates in Alumni Banquet Symposium of Peace, With Other Distinguished Alumni; Has Won Laurels for Outstanding Leadership of Legion in 1939-40 
Ed. Note: Commander Kelly, suffer­but a blanket invitation to trouble in an to support these fundamental guardians ing from an illness contracted on one of aggressively materialistic world. . . . of our individual liberties. his journeys during the 75,000 miles he 
But the Legion also contends that 
Our integrity as a. nation must be 
has travelled as Commander of the Leg­

there is a point where these individual 
protected from possible aggression both 
ion, spoke without manuscript. The fol­

rights, and freedom as we have known, 
from within and without our boundaries. 
lowing, therefore, are excerpts from his 

end and treasonable and seditious activ­
The heart of America must be right. 
remarks. 

ity begins. Now as never before it is vital that You and I know that the forces of 
we present a common American front to 
Since my election as National Com­subversion, which seek to overthrow our 
warring nations abroad. A strong and 
mander I have traversed the length and constitutional government, hide them­
united country has a far better chance 
breadth of our country. I have talked selves behind the protective sections of 
of staying at peace than one torn and 
to Notre Dame alumni and to men and the Bill of nights, which they seek to 
disorganized by class conflict. 
women in all walks of life. The com­destroy. 
mon burden of our conversation has Whatever we do, it is highly important I believe that a re-definition of the bees ihat of the possibility of involve­these days that we do it as a united dividing line between legitimate human ment of the United States in the present nation. 
rights in a constitutional republic and overseas conflict. 
We must not let the thought get treasonable and seditious license of a 
With them I have discussed the ab­abroad that because of disturbed in­destructive and dangerous character is surdity and stupidity of war. We have ternal conditions overt acts by foreign badly needed. agreed that everyone who participates nations can be committed with impunity 
I, for one, do not want my liberties in war is the loser. There are no insofar as Uncle Sam is concerned. To­as a citizen of the United States, taken winners. day more than at any time in our history, from me by those who would use the 

peace should prevail behveen the Amer­
Constitution itself to abolish my indi­We who have known war in our gen­ican employer and employee. 
vidual rights protected by that very doc­eration want peace. 
ument. . . . 
Achievement of a permanent and last­
Our leaders from time to time may ing peace during the immediate past Since becoming National Commander differ as to the means of preserving the years in too many cases has been ren­I have met men and women in all walks peace and protecting our neuti-ality, but dered almost impossible by efforts of of American life. Prom these people, Iall our people are in common accord on communist-inspired cliques to gain con­have received one consistent impression. 

this one particular subject of staying out trol of the Labor movement in this coun-It is that we need most today a return of this war. 
tr}'. to the rugged faith of our fathers. 
When the organized veterans of the The few employees who would exploit Without faith in the Supreme Being, World War in the great Chicago Legion labor and the racketeer in the ranks of the edifices of human liberty which we convention went sled-length for a pro­
labor must be exposed and eliminated. have built in America are but hollow gram urging the nation to stay out of sepulchers—as shifting as the winds, as 
Those who would implant foreign rev-

this war, the action had a vital effect on temporary as man-made expedients will 
olutionai-y doctrines in the minds of 
all our fellow-countrymen. always be. 
honest and law-abiding American work-They began immediately to demand ingmen must not be tolerated on the May I call to your attention the fact that we stay out of the conflict, and Old American scene. . . . that in those nations which have denied World entanglements. God, liberties for the people no longer 
We abhor any un-American policy of 

exist. 
Our country had looked to the Amer­force and violence as weapons to gain ican Legion and it had lectured in no objectives in the field of industrial re­No matter how much we legislate; no uncertain terms that this war is not and lationships whether it shall be by the matter how much we sit around the con­must not become the concern of the employer or the employee. . . . ference table; the preparing and experi­Western Hemisphere. menting we do with social panaceas: no 
The American Legion has as a car­

matter how much we try through mate­At Chicago, the Legion did not just dinal principle the upholding and defend­rial means to right the wrongs which express itself in favor of staying out of ing of the Constitution of the United may exist in our national economy, with­war. It dealt with the problem by de­States. That constitution includes the out individual faith in God, bringing claring that we should arm ourselves in Bill of Rights. In it are the protective with it tolerance and forebearance for order to protect our neutrality. planks of freedom of the press, of our fellowmen, there can be no lasting 
speech, of worship, and of assembly. 
We will have none of supine pacifism solution of the problems now besetting or peace at any price. Such would be The Legion believes in and is pledged us as a people. 
contrary to the sneer of the skeptic, He does not need big battalions. When He 
NOTRE DAME BOOKS ... . 
sent Elias to restore His Name in Israel, 
Law Office Secretary's Manual. By John 
J. Antus, '28, Prentice-Hall, Inc. New York. 1940. §5.00. Pp. xv, 343. 

"How to do it" books have been ex­tremely popular these post-depression years. From a currently popular work on reading books, with emphasis on the fact that the reader should open his eyes as well as the book, to the earlier favor­ite which purported to show how one could wake up and stay alive, these "success" volumes usually consider the unnecessary and the trivial and tell the reader nothing more than the average literate moron already knew. 
Mr. Antus' Manual is definitely not to be classed as an ordinarj' "how to do it" book. Taking the field of the legal secretary Mr. Antus, a Notre Dame graduate of 1928, gives valuable infor­mation on everything from how to get a position as secretary to a lawyer to hold to how it once it once it is ob­tained. This information can be found nowhere else, and it includes all essential items of knowledge in the legal seci'e­tarj''s work. 
If all legal secretaries knew the con­tents of this book, there would be no more blow-ups by lawyer bosses. In fact if a lawyer could find a secretary who has truly absorbed the material that 5Ir. Antus has compiled in his book he could dismiss his partner and take the summer oflr for himself, and let the secretary run the office. A copy of this excellent work should be placed in everj' law office, where it would serve as a quiet stimulus to stenographic betterment — providing the present secretary can read. 
—JAMES J. KEARNEY, '31. 
Marshall and Taney Statesmen of the 
Law. By Ben W. Palmer. University 
of Minnesota Press. 1939. ?3.50. Pp. 
•via, 281. 

In this well written short volume the author shows how Chief Justice Marshall who has been "canonized" by public opinion, and Chief Justice Taney, who has been "cursed" by the same opinion, have both been misunderstood, or at least incompletely known. Considering the life and works of each separately and also by comparison Mr. Palmer re­veals that he is an accomplished biog­rapher who has not been led astray bj' ill-founded public opinion. 
His introductory chapter, captioned, "Are Judges Human Beings?" is the finest summary' of the position of judges-in our legal system that has come to my attention. Anyone with a grievance against the law or lawyers will be amply repaid by a perusal of this chapter. 
Lawyers will find in this work a fine biographical treatment of the first Cath­olic Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court and an accurate compar­ative evaluation of his work in relation to that of Marshall, Ms immediate pred­ecessor. It is also a book of rare value for pre-legal reading by those who con­template the study of law. 
—JAMES J. KEARNEY, '31. 
THE COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS 
(Continued from Page 25S) 

You have received more than an ordin­ary education at Notre Dame. Its sys­tem has never been content to make only intellectual automatons of its stu­dents. This tumultuous world is already overfilled with sheer intellect. Notre Dame has taught you discipline, physical, mental, and moral. It has taught you religion in both the broad and narrow sense of that term. It has stressed char­acter, integrity, courage, and spiritual fervor, without which mere intellectual ability is a menace to mankind. You go forth today equipped with the finest weapons that this great Institution can give you, but use those weapons well. You will have the satisfaction later of having done your part in meeting, over­coming, and bringing to a happy solution the greatest crises that have ever con­fronted the race of men. 
THE BACCALAUREATE SERMON 
(Continued from Page 260) 

rebels against the inhibitions coming from tradition, from religion, from de­cency, and even good manners. 
In this age young men have a large share in molding public opinion and in guiding the destinies of the country. You know why the earth is troubled. The task of the Church is to redeem the past. The only cure is to bring back God to His own. It is given to you as to the Apostles of old, "To be witnesses in Jerusalem and all Judea, and in Samaria, and to the uttermost parts of the earth." Do not shirk the task and say it belongs to the priest. You are the Children of a chosen people. Your task is God's; and and the prophet lamented the universal apostasy of the people. He answered, — "I have yet left me seven thousand men who have not bent the knee to Baal." It is not numbers that matters, but the truth and the courage to maintain it. Older generations have builded well and sown abundantly. Here in the United States it remains for the Catholic laity, the graduates of schools such as this, to be proud of the stock from which they have come, worthy of "Notre Dame." unashamed of the Cross of Christ. 
Our Blessed Lady is Christ's final legacy to the children of men. In the Last Supper Our Divine Saviour left us an enduring memorial of Love Divine. On the Cross He wrote a codicil to His-Last Will and Testament. His Mother He had kept for the last. He now places Her in the care of the youthful John ere. he went forth from the Master's School to his life's work in an apostolic career. St. John took Her to his heart and She abided with him until angels' hands as­sumed Her into Heaven. When his eyes had grown dim and the weight of years bowed him down, when the sands of life were running low and the harbor bar was moaning, he had a vision of Her as "the Woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under Her feet, and on Her head a crown of twelve stars." Nearer than any creature did she come to the Divine Essence when She became the Mother of the world's Redeemer. Won­der not that the Saints have seen the beauties of the Godhead reflected in Her, who is the channel by which Divine Prov­idence chooses to send His grace to the children of Men. May She remain for you unto many years and happy days what She has been for you in this House of Wisdom, a tender Mother, a Gate of Heaven, and the Cause of our Joy. 
SMITH NEW MONOGRAM HEAD 

Maurice "Clipper" Smith, '21, one of the late Knute K. Rockne's famous "watch charm" guards, now director of athletics at Villanova college, was elect­ed president of the Monogram club of Notre Dame for the ensuing year at the annual Commencement luncheon on June 2. Clipper succeeds Chet Wynne, '22, of Chicago, as head of the organi­zation. 
John Wallace, '27, Calumet City, HI., was elected vice-president, and Frank Miles, '21, South Bend, was re-elected secretary-treasurer. Rev. J. Hugh O'Don­nell, C.S.C, '16, president of the Uni­versity, was named honorary president. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Notre Dame and the World War, 1917-18 
Love of country is akin to love of God. Patriotism springs from the soul of man and is an attribute of God Him­self. Scott, in his poem "Patriotism" described it in these words: 
"Breathes there the man ^vith soul so dead. Who never to himself hath said, "This is my own, my native land!' " 

The theme of this Alumni banquet has been verj' fittingly outlined — "For God — For Country — and For Notre Dame." You have just listened to tbe eloquence of Bishop O'Hara in speaking to you "For God." My assignment comes under "For Country," and as National Commander of the Disabled American Veterans of the World War, I am most happy to share with the Hon. Raymond 
J. Kelly, National Commander of The American Legion this portion of the theme. 
The subject given me for discussion is "Notre Dame's contribution to the World War." My part has been made relatively easy on the one hand because of the abundant evidence and material available, and on the other hand rather difficult in the short time allotted to me to do full justice to the subject. 
Patriotism Reverts to Sorin 

Since the beginning of Notre Dame by its founder Father Sorin, the record written "For Counti-y" stands side by side with the record written "For God." Patriotism' marked the very soul of the founder of Noti'e Dame. Tradition tells a story that he sent a nephew back to France because he would neither adapt himself to the American way of life nor show genuine love for America. From the very earliest years of this institution, Notre Dame has enjoyed a military rec­ord since 1859 when Father Sorin com­missioned William P. Lynch, later a hero of the Civil War, to organize a cadet corps from a little band of students at Notre Dame. These cadets, only 17 years after Notre Dame was founded, were wearing the uniforms of the American Revolution and learning the principles of citizenship that took most of them into the war for the Union several years later. 
By LEWIS J. MURPHY, '26 (An Address at the Alumni Banquet) 
National Commander of Disabled Veterans Tells of Notre Dame's Magnificent Contri­butions to the Country's Fighting Forces 
It was the Civil War that gave the 
first real test to the Fi-ench founded 
Notre Dame, and which proved beyond 
question the depth of Father Sorin's pa­
triotism and the sharing of his loyalty 
"For Countrj'" by the priests, faculty 
and the students. Seven of the outstand­
ing priests of the Congregation of Holy 
Cross at Notre Dame, a major group in 
those days, were in the Union -4rmy as 
chaplains, winning lasting fame on the 
front lines of that war, "For God, For 
Country, and For Notre Dame." During 
the period of the Civil War, student en­
rollment dropped because the students 
and potential students, like the facultj' 
members, had departed for the front. 
Sacrifice, so long a part of the life of 
Notre Dame, was increased for the 
adopted land of its founder, without a 
murmur and far in excess of the de­
mands expected of it. Father Corby and 
Father Cooney were outstanding chap­
lains of that war. 
Post 569 G. A. R. 

On May 30, 1911, there was unveiled on the campus a monument in memory of the General Absolution ^ven by Chaplain . Corby, C.S.C, under fire at Gettysburg on June 2, 1863. 
Likewise, during the Indian Wars and ' the Spanish American War, Notre Dame men fought with honor to themselves and their Alma Mater and always in de­fense of America and its ideals. 
Following the close of the Civil War, there was organized at the University, the Notre Dame Post No. 569 of the Grand Army of the Republic and whose final membership 'was made up of 11 priests and 11 Brothers of the Order and which passed into history upon the death of the last survivor. Brother Ra­phael in jNIay, 1921, and 'who kept with him to the very last in his quarters, the flag and standard of that unit. The practical example of patriotism and the influence of those men upon the life and spirit of the University, furnished many patriotic traditions for the student body and which was further reflected in their academic studies related to good govern­ment and good citizenship, which has al­ways been one of the foremost subjects on the curriculum at Notre Dame. 
The Hoynes Tradition 

A fine military tradition of Notre 
Dame grew up around the life and activ­
ity of the late Col. William Hoynes who 
came to the University a few years after 
the Ci-vil War and who, 'with his influ­
ence and personality, not only founded 
the Notre Dame Law School, but added 
much to the military and patriotic at­
mosphere of the entire institution. He 
later organized among the students what 
became known as the Hoynes Light 
Rifles. For many years, Col. Hoynes 
served as marshal of the Memorial Day 
ceremonies on May 30 of each year, 
which included the celebration of a Field 
Mass and a parade to the Community 
Cemetery to decorate and bless the graves of those patriots who are buried there. His life and story was, and still is, an inspiration to hundreds and hun­dreds of Notre Dame men. For several years prior to the World War, military training was a part of the curriculum at Notre Dame and was carried on up until shortly before the World War in 1917. One of the army instructors in that work, and a man loved by all who knew him, Sergeant George A. Campbell, later served as a captain in the World War and was killed in action. 
As we approach the World War in 1917, we find Notre Dame was then a well established University observing its Diamond Jubilee and enjoying a peace and progress well removed from the struggling years of the Civil War period. 
The question for answer was: Would the students and priests and faculty members respond again to their coun­try's call? 
The answer is already in the records. Because her sons held high the heritage of the past and because they were ani­mated by the heroic examples of the older patriots of Notre Dame, their an­swer was made without delay. They were among the first volunteers after war was declared on April 6, 1917, and 60 days later, in Jane, most of the class of 1917 received their diplomas in the uniform of the various branches of the military service. In their young stout hearts was beating the spirit of the "Song of the Soldier-Bom" as told by the war poet, Robert W. Service, when he said: 
*'Givc nie to live and love in the old, bold fashion; 
A soldier's billet at night and a soldier's ration; 
A heart that leaps to the fight with a soldier's 
passion." 
World War Effects on N. D. 

There are many personal human in­terest stories that might be told of the epgemess of Notre Dame men to join the colors. Only a few days ago in Washington, James Hayes, an alumnus, related to me the story of how Notre Dame's quota for the Officers Training Camps was soon filled and a second quota was obtained and soon filled, and how with the help of Father John Cavanaugh, who was then president of the TJnlver sity, a third quota was received for about 30 students, which took in his brother but left him out, and he was finally able to arrange to go under the quota of another university whose quota had not been filled. 
By September, 1917, there was a 35% drop of enrollment in the entire Univer­sity arid by the end of the War, approx­imately 2200 Notre Dame men had been in the service—a number equal to the total number of degrees awarded by Notre Dame University from the time of its founding down until that time. Both in numbers and in quality, the soldiers, officers and chaplains were the best that the University had to give. Eight chaplains were soon in uniform. AU of them made outstanding records and all served overseas. Time will not permit me to relate the military achieve­ment' of each, and all are equally bril­liant, but we can draw on one for in­spiration. The story has been given me in my travels by those who served in the same Army Chaplain School at Camp Shelby, Mississippi, how from a group of some 400 Army Chaplains, Father Matthew Walsh, C.S.C, who had volun­teered while serving as vice-president of Notre Dame, was chosen by popular vote to deliver the baccalaureate address at the Commencement program which ter­minated the period of training for those army chaplains. We can follow Father Walsh overseas where he served with the 30th Infantry in the 3rd Division through the thick-of the fight. Later on, he was placed in command of all army chaplains of the district of Paris and was decorated for distinguished service. The modesty of these gallant sons of Notre Dame has left many facts and stories of patriotic service untold that would fill a book in the history of Notre Dame. They carried -with them throughout their 
sen'ice their faith in God, in country, and in Notre Dame, and made distin­guished records. 
Upon their return from war, these chaplains exerted an influence and lead­ership in the affairs of the University over the past two decades. The late Very Rev. Charies L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, be­came the provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the United States, and Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C, became president of the University, and was later followed in the presidency by Fa­ther O'Donnell. Prelate Rev. George Finnigan, C.S.C, became a bishop. Rev. John McGinn, C.S.C, served as secre­tary of the Alumni and Co-Director of the Expansion Drive, and now carries on important special duties. Rev. Ernest Davis, C.S.C, served as registrar of the University, and Rev. Edward Finnegan, C.S.C, held many important posts at Notre Dame. Likewise, many of the students who served returned to finish their education, and the athletic teams of the "Fighting Irish" contained the names of well known athletes such as Captain Carberry of the football squad, Castner, Voss, McDermott, Ficks, Wil­cox, Hayes, Coughlin, and others, who made records on the athletic field as well as in the military service. 
Peacetime Patriotism 

The postivar record shows that Notre Dame continued to contribute when she opened wide her doors to assist the gov­ernment in its program of vocational rehabilitation to those men disabled in the World War. Special courses were arranged to provide instruction with which to assist several hundred men to adjust themselves once more and to overcome their disabilities. These dis­abled veterans formed the South Bend Chapter No. 6 of the Disabled Ameri­can Veterans in the city, and were early active in formulating and outlining pro­grams for their ovrn relief and assisting the government in outlining these same progi-ams. The Notre Dame Post No. 286, Veterans of Foreign Wars, the first of its kind in the United States, was organized at the University and which carried on an active program for about three years until its activities were closed and the charter retained at the University for historical purposes. Like­wise, many of the chaplains, lay faculty and students were active in the Ameri­can Legion in the city, and at the pres­ent time there is listed on the lay faculty of the University, over a score of profes­sors and instructors who served during the World War and whose experience and patriotic influence has furnished a great deal of inspiration for the student body. 
Our Alma Mater emerged from the 

World War with one of the greatest records of patriotic service of any col­lege or university in America for its size, as related by a president of another outstanding university. Forty-six names on the tablet of the Memorial Door of Sacred Heart Church testify to patrio­tism and sacrifice at Notre Dame. The returned veterans raised a large fund to erect this memorial which was dedicated on May 30, 1923, by a Military Field Mass. The dedication address was de­livered by Father Matthew Walsh, C.S.C, then president of Notre Dame, and no better statement could be made than to quote from that address: 
"The real purpose of a memorial, from the Catholic point of view, is to inspire a prayer for those we desire to remember. It is very proper that this Memorial should be a part of the church of Notre Dame. 
"No one who knows Notre Dame need be told of the spirit of loyalty and faith that has ani­mated this University from its Veginning. "We should imitate our dead in that they have shown us the lesson of patriotism. If only the people of America would follow their example, there would be no discrimination because of race or creed. When Washington said that religion and morality are the base of patriotism, he gax'e us the defini­tion for every patriotic move at Notre Dame." 
Likewise, in the hospitals of the Vet­erans Administration there remain to­day Notre Dame men for whom the Armistice has never been signed, and who are still liWng examples of Noti-e Dame's contribution and sacrifice for America. 
Early in the life of the Univei-sity, there was instituted on Washington's birthday, the annual patriotic progi'am, at which time the Senior Class presents a United States flag to the University in colorful ceremony as their pledge of allegiance to God and Countrj' and Notre Dame. 
Continuing Manifestations 

Notre Dame's latest contribution "For Country" was the recent elevation of her president to the bishopric in charge of the Catholic Chaplains of the -A.rmy, Navy and Marine Corps. It was my happy privilege as National Commander of the Disabled American Veterans of the World War on last Sunday to repre­sent my organization at the Solemn Me­morial Field Mass sponsored by the Knights of Columbus and Associated Catholic Societies in the Arlington Am­phitheater before the Tomb of the Un­known Soldier at Arlington, Virginia. know you would have been thrilled with pride, as I was, to listen to our own Bishop O'Hara, who in a masterful ad­dress there in the solemnity of that great Memorial, in the very shadow of the nation's capitol, told the story of Father Corby granting general absolution to the Union soldiers at Gettysburg, as he outlined the ethics and principles in­
{Continued on Page 278) 

Executive Secretary's Report 
June I, 1939, to June I, 1940 
7.
 The Office' cooperated in arranging in Chicago a meeting of Notre Dame war veterans. We are also considering the improvement of our records of our veterans and the possibility of a more permanent organization. 

8.
 The Office cooperated with the department of Journalism in the circu­lation of a Questionnaire to 700 alumni of the department. 

9.
 The Legal Directory, published in 1937, has been kept up to date by the appearance of corrections and additions, as we receive them, in the columns of the ALUMNUS from month to month. 

10.
 Another successful reunion of Monogram alumni was held in con­junction with the Southern Califomia-Notre Dame football game last Fall. 

11.
 The Association worked with the Lay Retreat held annually on the cam­pus to promote attendance of individual alumni and Local Club delegations. 

12.
 The Alumni Office has worked with the Sisters who are graduates of the Summer School, editing two editions during the year of the separate publica­tion for that group, Notre Dame Alum­nae Echoes. 

13.
 The Association purchased two copies of the Highlights of the 1939 football games and has had them shown before 40 Alumni Clubs and a number of other organizations in which alumni are leaders. 

14.
 A buffet luncheon was arranged in cooperation with the University for the 70 sons of Notre Dame alumni who are presently enrolled at Notre Dame. 

15.
 During the football season, and for Commencement, the Office maintains a list of rooms in private homes for alumni and student friends. 

16.
 The Alumni Office edited the Questionnaire to the Local Clubs and forwarded a 15 - page mimeographed analysis of the results to the officers of the 92 Clubs. 

17.
 A special study of finances and Club programs was made by the Alumni Board, which resulted in two articles ap­pearing in the ALUMNUS by the Vice-Presidents of the Association. Director Edward O'Toole has also made a special study of the placement program in con­junction with the Alumni Office. 

18.
 The Association has instituted a new system of contributions which prom­ise to increase the participation and the revenue on a sound program of coopera­tion with the alumni generally. 


The kaleidoscope that is 1939-40 finds more images and more color. You have seen the year in i^ parts as it has prog­ressed. It is difficult to compress the whole into a report. First there is al­most infinite detail, and secondly infinite variety. 
Speaking generally, on the basis of long experience, we have had one of our best years. The Board of Directors achieved a part in the procedure which will be intensified. The Alumni Office has made frantic efforts to coordinate its limited staff in the carrying out of the unlimited projects. The result has been a picture like that of the amateur plumb­er, plugging a leak here only to have another deluge there. 
Perhaps the best method of suggesting to you the things that have made Presi­dent Hilgartner's administration memor­able and the year another stride ahead for the Association would be to list some of the major activities of the Associa­tion, through the Alumni Office and the Clubs: 
1.
 Seven hundred new alumni were added through the June and Summer Session graduations of 1939. But more appalling than that has been the mobil­ity of the alumni group as a whole. During the year almost 3,500 changes of address were recorded. Since this in most cases includes changes of addresso­graph plates, cards, Club and Class lists, the multiple figure has demanded a great part of the time of the records work. And in addition we have continued our efforts to catch up on some of the rec­ords of the non-gi-aduate students of very early, and veiy recent, years, — two groups that present some difficulty in listing. 

2.
 Eight issues of the ALUMNUS have been sent to all graduates and elected members of the Association, 80,000 copies in all. The ALUMNUS has special­ized in what the editors feel is its pri­mary field, the news of the Clubs and the Classes and the news of the Univer­sity. In Classes and Clubs alone, 153 pages of six-point type, three column.^ to the page, appeared. This is a tribute to the Class and Club Secretaries, and a vital contribution to the unity of the Association. 


Cultural subjects were necessarily in­cluded in lesser measure, because of space and editorial limitations. Never­theless, we tried to keep pace with these development within the University, and to present from time to time articles and suggested reading of interest to Notre Dame alumni and not otherwise acces­sible. 

3.
 Placement is treated in a separate account by 'William R. Dooley, '26, who has supei-vised this activity of the Asso­ciation. 

4.
 Universal Notre Dame Night, the 17th in the series, achieved a new high record in all of its phases. This was most encoui-aging, and reflects not only the continuing growth of the University and the universal respect for it, but also the development of the Local Clubs which are the structure upon which the Night is built. The work of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit in this year's pro­gram was outstanding. Five Clubs are already bidding for the 1941 Observ­ance, additional tribute to the prestige of the Night as an institution per se. As in most of our projects, the present fine status of the Night is not the peak of its possibilities, but rather only an­other guidepost in the right direction. 

5.
 Promotion, the blanket term used to designate alumni effoi-ts to aid in securing for Notre Dame, a capacity enrolment of boys best suited to the training and traditions of the Univer­sity, has been pui-sued on a rather gen­ei'al basis. Frequent evidence occurs in the office of the Registi-ar of individual alumni effort. The Alumni Office edited this year a new, modified version of Notre Dame Jlen, an illustrated booklet for prospective students, of which 5,000 copies were circulated. The Alumni Of­fice sent out 150 copies of the 1939 Dome to those high schools which have contributed several students to the cur­rent enrolment. 

6.
 Bishop O'Hara's conseci-ation was the source of unusual activity in the Alumni Association. Many alumni at­tended. Many alumni participated in various tj^ies of recognition, and the Office cooperated with the alumni com­mittee which presented the crozier to the Bishop. The consecration was also the occasion for an enlarged edition of the ALUMNUS. 


19.
 The Alumni Office and the Clubs and individual alumni worked success­fully for the election of Elmer Layden as head coach of the All-Star football team last August. 

20.
 Participation in Catholic activities generalTy has been reflected throughout the year. The Secretary of the Notre Dame Association was elected President of the National Catholic Alumni Federa­tion at its 1939 Convention in New York in October. Spotlight Alumni, a regular feature of the ALUMNUS, has attempted to reflect the success in diverse fields of our members. Outstanding has been the heading of the American Legion and the Disabled Veterans by two distinguished alumni, Ray Kelly and Lewis Murphy. 


This is not a complete listing of the activities. As for example the postcard from the alumnus asking us to give him the words to "Taps" (which we did, with the aid of the Y.W.C.A.). And under each heading, a thesis could be WTitten. 
• But what we have tried to convey is the thought that in return for the sup­port you have given, we have attempted to extend the program and the services of the Association to the maximum, for you and for the T3niversity. Obviously, added support will serve to amplify them all. 
For the Deceased Alumni 
June 1, 1939, to June 1, 1940 

"Whereas God, in His wisdom, has during the past year taken from this life the alumni hereinafter listed, and 
. "Whereas these members have served their Alma Mater with glory in their respective avocations, 
"Be it resolved that this Association extend its heartfelt sympathy to the rela­tives with promise of prayers that the same God, in His mercy, will be generous to their souls and grant them that eter­nal rest which we all so earnestly seek. 
"Be it further resolved that an expres­sion of the above be written into the official records of the Alumni Association and a copy sent to the bereaved rela­tives." 
Anson, Georse M., '95. Miami. Fla. A.rce, Julius A... '99. Buenos Aires, Argentina 
Arnfield, Fremont, '12. Elcin. HI. Arnold, Eugene F., '78, Washington. D. C. Bertclirig, Dr. John B.. '80, South Bend, Ind. Brosnahan. James D., '30. Springfield. Mass. Bulla, Thomas H., '67, South Bend, Ind. Bums, Judge Michael O., '86, Hamilton, Ohio Campbell, Frank B., '14, Missoula, Mont. Cannon, Rev. Dominic. C.S.C., '07, KotT« Dame 
Collins, Edmond A., *30, Tucson, Ariz, Daly, Hugh J., '12, Chicago, HI. Donahoe, Matthew J., ex. '01, Jacksonville, SI, Doyle, James P., ex. '31, Auhum, N. Y. Eleanore, Mother, C.S.C.. '18, Holy Cross, Ind. Fehr, Andrew F., '98, Louisville. Ky, Fitzgerald, James M., '01, Bethany, III. Flynn, John E., '26, Mount Holly, N. J. Fox, John M., '09, Washington, D. C. Funk, Rabey, *25, Amarillo, Texas Gamboe, Ebcr B., *73, Portland, Ore. Glcim, F. August, '11, Marfa, Texas Havican, Thomas A., '11, Homestead, Pa. Hobert, Joseph J., '28, Beaumont. Texas Hengcn. Rev. Wm. C, '97, Minneapolis, Minn. Higgins, Louis J., ex. '36. Kansas City, Mo. Holland, E. Leo, '99, Baltimore, Md. Home, Peter J., ex. *81, Valparaiso, Ind. Hrubcc, Theodore T., '29. Perth Amboy, N. J. James, Llewellyn D., '17, St. Louis, Mo. Lavelle. Rt. Rev. Msgr. Michael J., LU)., '20, New 
York City Leonard, Brother, C.S.C., '24, New Orleans, La. Longan, Raymond C, '93, Clinton, Iowa Madel, William M., '43, PI>-mouth, Ind. Maher, Dr. Stephen J., Laotare Medalist, '32. New 
Haven, Conn. Mangin, Joseph A., ex. '19, Maplewood, N. J. Mayo, Dr. Chas. H., LL.D., '36, Rochester, Minn. Mayo, Dr. William J., LL.D., '36. Rochester, Minn. McBride, John L., '04, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
McCarthy, Charles J. jr., ex.'28, Livingston, N. J. Moore, Samuel L., ex. '71. Memphis, Tcnn. Mulloy, Rev. Bernard B., C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind. Murphy, Frederick E., '93, Minneapolis, Minn. Nicholson, John P., Coach, Notre Dame, Ind. O'Boyle, Joseph J., '38, Sayre, Pa. O'Connor, Rev. Geo., CS.C, South Bend, Ind. O'Kecfc, Don P„ '03, Detroit Mich, O'Mallcy, Dr. Austin. LL.D., '95, Philadelphia. Pa. O'Reilly, Rev. Patrick T., C.S.C., Faculty, Dublin, 
Ireland Pcttit, Ross E., ex. '28. Fort Wa>-ne, Ind. Provost, Antonio J., Faculty, Boston, Mass. Rasche, Patrick H., '82, Stanley, Idaho Regis, Sr. M. Francis. B.V.M., '29, Dubuque, Iowa Roch, Brother, O.M.Cap., '96, Garrison, N. Y. Sanduskey. Raymond D., '30, Elkhart, Ind. Scherrer,. Leo J., '90, S t Louis, Mo. Schneider, Gerald E., ex. '20, Detroit Mich. Shecdy, Rev. Morgan, LLJ)., '06, Altoona, Pa. Sheehan, John W., LL.B., '07, S t Louis, Mo. Shcehan, William F., '98, Hancock, Mich. Sherman, Edward H., '34, Los Angeles,. Calif. Smogor, Rev. Casimir B., '90, Steubenville, Ohio Stephan, Raymond V., '03, Galena, HI. Sterling. Ford, '00, HoUyivood, Calif. Stueve, Richard C, '38, Tulsa, Okla. Tingley, John K., '35, Norwich, Conn. Walter, Brother, C.S.C., '15. Notre Dame, Ind. Wenninger, Rev. Francis T., CS.C, '11, Notre 
Dame, Ind. 

Financial Statenfient of the Alumni Association of the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME From June I, 1939, to June I, 1940 
Balance on hand, June 1. 1939 $ 273.33 Receipts from new single contribution program 12.201.67* 
Total Receipts year ending May 31. 1940 12,475.00 
• This total is 51,269.17 more than the amount received from the same source in 1938-39. 
Expenditures, June 1, 1939 to June 1. 1940  
Salaries  $  5,679.00*  
Ave Maria Press  3,159.39**  
Postoffice, Notre Dame  1, 130.25  
Miscellaneous  —  ­  1,809.62***  
Total expenditures  11,778.26****  
Balance on hand, June 1, 1940  696.74  

* A readjustment by the Board and the University this year now gives the Association two full time and two part-time persons on the Association payroll. 
*• The Item here consisted largely of hold-over bills from last year, the University this year assuming the cost of printing the ALtJMNUS. 
*** This item represents the costs involved in the 20 projects listed under the Year's Report the substantial item of OiBce equipment files, etc 
•*** Some of the limitations of our present program may he explained by the fact that this year's expenditures are $1,673.38 lower than the year's .expenditure m 1929-30. Then, we had half as many alumni, fewer Clubs, fewer projects, a more limited scope, less help. 
James E. Armstrong. '25 Secretary-Treasurer 
The Notre. Dame Alumnus 
Eichenlaub Heads Association 
Broussard and Byrne Elected Vice-Presidents 
One of the outstanding impressions I have after 15 years contact with the -Alumni Association is the unbroken line of fine men who have been selected to direct it in the various offices of the Board of Directors. 
With Father Thomas Steiner, C.S.C, '99, Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, as honorary president, the Association has the benefit of a friend on the campus, close to Notre Dame, familiar with hundreds of alumni as teacher and confessor, a priest whose heart is wrapped up in the University and who consequently is vitally inter­ested in those who are a part of it. 
In Ray Eichenlaub, as president, the Association enjoys a leadership which will hope for cooperation and support but which will not depend on it. Eich is still on the books as.one of those full­backs who either followed his interfer­ence or opened a hole for it —. depend­ing on how fast the interference moved. And it looks like that kind of a year for the Association. Naturally, if the cooperation and the support are right, the gain ought to be of the old touch­down type. 
There are a lot of Notre Dame men in Texas, and big as it is, they have made themselves felt. Among the more substantial citizens wearing the Gold and Blue brand is Clyde Broussard, '13, of Beaumont, first vice-preside'nt. With relatives coming and going from Notre Dame and St. Mary's during the inter­vening years, Clyde, despite the distance, knows a lot about what's going on where the St. Joseph River makes its south bend. JVnd his perspective, his ability, topping off this knowledge, will make his voice valuable in the councils of the year. 
Tom Byrne, '28, the second vice-presi­

dent, is one of those mild-mannered 
young men who strike you as low-
pressured salesmen until you find your­
self holding the bill of goods they were 
just kind of telling you about. He is 
one of the right numbers of Ohio Bell, 
and a bulwark of the Cleveland Club, 
where they have specialized in bulwarks 
and won't recognize one until he is one. 
Tom is among a small group of calm but 
zealous members who turned the Cleve­
land Club Retreat into a rout, so that 
instead of one week-end now, it requires 
four to handle the crowd. 
Frank jVIcKeever, Ed O'Toole and John Higgins who hold over as Direc­tors, are joined by another Mid-Western director of a 4-year term. Bill Mooney, Jr., '15, Indianapolis. This gives Ray 
'President Eichenlaub 

Eichenlaub a quartet of directors from three of the major Clubs within fairly easy calling radius, an advantage un­planned but practical and promising. Bill Mooney was back for his 25th Re­union in June, but it was still easy.to call him Junior, and his reliable partici­pation in Indianapolis affairs is a boost for his stock as one of the rein-holders for the Association. 
In addition, Danny Hilgartner holds over for a year as a member of the Board to get in all of those things he was going to think of as President, when he suddenly found that the year had been jerked out from under him. And the 1940 Class will elect a Director this summer to serv'e as the advisor on new viewpoints as the current undergraduate develops them or catches them. 
All in all, the Alumni Office is sitting back catching its breath as this is writ­ten, confident that it will be the last breath until June 1, 1941. After all, we were in Columbus when that 1935 classic was played, and we saw Eich's handi­work there in one week-end. And with 50 of them to go, hang on to your hats 
(and turn loose of those contributions)! 
273 
FOR NOTRE DAME" 
(Continued from Pase 262) 

significant that the acknowledgment to God be made by one of Notre Dame's sons, who very recently was honored with the plenitude of priestly power, and now serves a.s Auxiliary of the Army and Navy, diocese. It is equally significant that such be made in the presence of the distinguished Archbishop of Los Angeles, for many years a true friend and ad­mirer of the University. 
Commanders Are Present 

That the tribute to our country be given by two stalwart sons, commanding officers of the important veteran organi­zations, is an event tha.t will long be remembered by all in attendance. Now that the international horizon is dark­ened with the grim spectre of war, I should say that their participation is quite imique and altogether stimulat­ing. To them and to you I say that Alma Mater ^vill continue to recognize in the Declaration of Independence the basic philosophy of our government, with its emphasis on God and the God-given rights of man. And, whether in peace or in war, Notre Dame's tradition of patriotism remains steadfast. 
-4jid, finally, for Notre Dame. Let all of us gather inspiration and strength from the program tonight, in a rededica­tion of our lives' to the ideals of Alma Mater, — to the old school that stresses the development of the whole man and the dignity of the human personality, — to the old school that trains her sons in not only how to make a living, but what is more important, in how to live well so as to die well. 
(As Father Charles O'Donnell of happy memory so well expressed it.) 
"For we know that a time will come. 
The graduating year. 

When thousands and thousands of us 
Who dreamed on your beauty here 

Will gather before your face 
And dream and talk of this place. 
Then when your Son comes by. You will tell Him, as of old, 'These are the boys we knew, I, in my cloak of gold. You, at the breaking of Bread — These are the troops You fed.' 
And a cheer shall split the skies 
As the ranks send up His name, 

-A. golden hour in heaven 
When your sons, O Notre Dame, 

Kneel to their Leader down. 
There by the hem of your gown." 
For God, Country and Notre Dame! 
By BILL SCANLON. '42 

ATHLETICS 
With the end of another sports year, tabulations show that the Fighting Irish teams compiled a winning percentage of .610 for 82 events in dual competition. Football paced all branches by ^vinning 7 of nine games for a .778 average while basketball rallied to land second with .714, via 15 victories and six defeats. 
The basketeers won their first four games, then dropped four. They came back with a revamped lineup to win 11 of the final 13 games for a season's mark of 15 victories in 21 starts—same record as posted a year ago. 
Tennis, under Coach Walter M. Lang­ford who succeeded Professor Pedro de Landero who is away on a leave of ab­sence, spurted into its most successful season in recent years, moving over the .500 mark with five victories and four defeats. Highlight of the competition, however, was the sensational Irish finale in the Indiana State tournament at La­fayette. Dan Canale, sophomore from Memphis, captured the singles crown and paired with Capt. Bill Fay to take the doubles. The team also walked off with top laurels easily. 
For the sixth consecutive year. Coach Jake Kline's baseball team registered a mark above .500. In golf, Notre Dame had another highly successful year. Capt. Walt Hagen, Jr., won the Indiana state singles crown with 151 and for the eighth successive year the team won the team title. Fencers captured five out of nine matches for a 'svinning season while the track team, after a shaky start, won three dual affairs, losing five. 
Team percentages follow: 
Sport  Won­  Lost  
Football  _  
Basketball  .15  C  .714  
Golf  __ —  . 6  3  .667  
Fcncinff  —  . 5  4  .556  
Tennis  . 5  4  .556  
Baseball  —  . 9  E  .529  
Track  . 3  5  .376  

Totals 
TRACK 
Scoring in every event, Notre Dame's track team captured first place in the Indiana State meet to highlight the 1940 season. By winning, the Irish regained the crown lost to Indiana in 1938. 
The sudden death of John P. Nichol­son, Notre Dame's track coach since 1928, on April 2,1940, shocked the sports 
SIGN MICHIGAN, STANFORD 
Contracts have been signecl witK both Michigan and Stanford for football games in 1942 and 1943. Michigan and the Irish will play at Notre Dame on Nov. 14, 1942, for the first time since 1910. The fol­lowing year the teams meet at Ann Arbor, on Oct. 9. 
The first game with Stanford will be played at Notre Dame Oct. 10, 1942, and the Irish will visit Palo Alto, Calif., Sept. 25, 1943. The teams have not met since Notre Dame beat Stanford, 27-10, in the Rose Bowl game of 1925. Notre Dame's 1942 grid chart includes: Stanford,-Wisconsin, Illinois, Navy, Arniy, Michigan, Northwestern, and Southern California. One game will be added. The 1943 season will include the same teams. 
world. Nicholson's death occurred just two days after his most talented pupil, Greg Rice, set a new world's three-mile record of 13:52.3, beating Taistc Maki of Finland and Indiana's Don Lash in Madison Square Garden, New York. 
Nick, as he was kno\vn to his associ­ates at Notre Dame and in track circles, won renown in 1912 as a world record holder in the high hurdles. The same year he was a member of the United States Olympic team. His squads won 10 out of 14 Central Collegiate confer­ence indoor meets and five outdoor car­nivals, six Indiana State meets, and in­dividual performers consistently scored heavily in the Penn and Drake Relays. Joseph M. Boland, football line coach, and William P. Mahoney, freshman track coach, carried on after Nicholson's death. 
Notre Dame trackmen dedicated the outdoor season to Nicholson, and sur­prised the experts by winning the Indi­ana State test from injury-riddled In­diana and Purdue. Capt. Ted Leonas, winner in the broad jump and high jump, and Bob Saggau, victor in the 100 and 220, led Irish performers to double vic­tories in that event. Outstanding indi­vidual performer for the Irish during the past season, however, was Cliff Brosey, 235-pound football tackle who doubles in the shot put and discus. Though only a sophomore, Brosey smashed Don Elser's indoor and outdoor records for the shot put. Indoors be tossed the weight 49 feet, 10 % inches against Michigan for a new Notre Dame record. In the Indiana State meet out­doors, Brosey-hit his peak with a throw of 51 feet, 2% inches, bettering Elser's 1934 school standard of 51 feet, <i/^Q inch. 

The mile relay team, composed of Ray Roy, Hank Halpin, Ken Collins, and George Schiewe or Bob Lawrence, also turned in several outstanding perform­ances, often threatening the all-time school mark of 3:17.5. Brosey established meet records against Michigan State, Marquette, and Indiana. In the Mar­quette indoor match, Saggau, football left halfback, ran the 60-yard dash in 
6:2 seconds for a record. Against Mich­igan State outdoors, Roy, another sopho­more, raced home in :48.8 to win the 440 and Curt Hester captured the mile in 
4:19.5 for records. 
Biggest improvement of the season was the form displayed by Clyde Archer, senior from Parkersburg, W. Va., in the javelin. His throw of 192 feet, 2 inches against Illinois bettered the mark made in 1940 Western Conference champion­ships. 
Other lettennen who contributed to the Irish successes in track include: Her­cules Bereolos, shot put; Bill Buenger, sprints; John Dean, pole vault; .John Mack, middle distances; Dave Reidy, hurdles; Frank Sheets, sprints and broad jump; Joe Prokop, hurdles and discus; and Ed Sullivan, shot put. 
The season results include: 
SEASON RECORD 
Indoor Notre Dame, 5S: Michigan State, 37 Marquette, 63; Notre Dame, 41 Indiana, 52; Notre Dame. 34 Michigan, 54: Notre Dame, 41 
Outdoor Notre Dame. 79: Michigan State, 52 Notre D-ime, 71: Illinois, 60 Marquette, 71: Notre Dame. 60 
Quadrangular Michigan, 81 2-3: Indiana, 70 1-10 : Notre Dame, 49 5-6: Illinois, 28 2-5 
Triangular Wisconsin, 73 1-3: Notre Dame, 59 1-3: Northwestern, 30 1-3 
Indoor Central Conference Notre Dame third with 27 1-2 points 
Butler Relays 
Notre Dame fourth with 13 19-20 points 
Indiana State Meet 
Notre Dame, 63^4: Indiana. 46^4: Purdue, 31 
Outdoor Central Conference Notre Dame fourth with 24 I-IO points Also competed in Drake and Illinois Relays, but no points awarded. 
Brosey, Hester, and Capt. Leonas were named to represent Notre Dame in the 

N.C.A.A. championships at Minneapolis, June 21-22, Elmer F. Layden, Director of Athletics, announced. Brosey will compete in the shot put; Hester in the half mile; and Leonas, high jump. 
Greg Rice, 1939 track captain, contin­ued his sensational running as an alum­nus. Working in South Bend, he trained at Notre Dame and ran nearly every week-end during the indoor season. Out­standing races were: world indoor two-mile record of 8:56.2 at New York, March 9; world three-mile indoor record of 13:52.3, beating Taisto Maki and Don Lash at New York, March 31; and 3,000­meter time of 8:18.9 for American rec­ord at Minneapolis, Minn., May 4. On June 8, Greg won the two-mile event at the Princeton Invitational, in 9:02.3, bet­tering his own N.C.A.A. standard of 
9:02.6 set a year earlier. 
Rice also received the annual award of the New York Track Writers' associ­ation as the outstanding performer of the 1940 indoor season. The presenta­tion was made by Lou Miller of the New York World-Telegram. 
BASEBALL 
Masterful pitching by Rex Ellis and Norv Hunthausen and hitting by Ray Pinelli and Capt. Chet Sullivan high­lighted Coach Clarence (Jake) Kline's seventh year as director of Notre Dame's baseball destinies which amounted to nine victories in 17 games. Cold weather halted two contests and rain washed out three more of the 22 original­ly scheduled. 
Ellis, curve-ball specialist and winner of the Byron V. Kanaley prize for being adjudged the most exemplary student and leader of men in the 1940 class, al­lowed opponents a fraction less than 1.5 runs per game. He beat Chicago, West­ern State, Army, and Ohio State. Hunt­hausen's best eifort was a 1-hit triumph over Northwestern to open the season. 
For the first time in several years, an eastern trip was included on the Irish schedule and Coach Kline's men took advantage of the opportunity to beat the Navy, 5 to 4, on Capt. Sullivan's ninth inning home run, and Ellis' expert hurl­ing to down the Army, 6-2. 
For the second consecutive year, Ray Pinelli, junior stortstop, led the club in hitting. He posted a mark of .348, ten points better than his .338 average which won the squad honors a year ago. Capt. Sullivan led the hitters during a major part of the season, and topped all in total bases \vith 36; batted in the most runs, 17; and slammed two home runs and three triples to pace the squad in those departments. 
At the end of the season, Andy Chle­beck, sophomore from St. Paul, Minn., was elected captain for the 1941 season. He is a centerfielder and fastest out­fielder on the squad. 
Results include: 
Notre I>ame, S: Northwestern, 1 Iowa at Notre Dame (cotd) Iowa at Notre Dame (cold) Notre Dame, 4 : Chicago, 1 Western State, 9; Notre Dame, 6 Notre Dame, 9: Chicago, 4 Notre Dame, 2 : Western State, 1 Northwestern, 3 : Notre Dame, 2 Purdue, 3 ; Notre Dame. 2 (12 ins.) Michigan at Ann Arbor (rain) Michigan State, 2; Notre Dame, 1 Indiana at Bloomington (rain) Indiana 7; Notre Dame, 4 Notre Dame, 5; Na\l', 4 Notre Dame, 6: Army, 2 Purdue, 2: Notre Dame, 1 Notre Dame. 4; Ohio State. 0 (10 ins.) Notre Dame 7: Ohio State, 4 Wisconsin, 9; Notre Dame, 4 Notre Dame. 4 : Wisconsin, 0 
Michigan at Notre Dame (rain) Michigan State, 4; Notre Dame. 2 

TENNIS Making a clean sweep of the Indiana State tournament, the Notre Dame ten­nis squad climaxed the most successful season in several years. At this writing three members of the team—Capt. Bill Fay, Dan Canale, and Captain-elect Jack Joyce—will be representing the school in the National Collegiate tournament. Qualifying rounds were to begin June 12 at Kenyon College, Gambier, Ohio, with the survivors moving on to the Merion Cricket club, Haverford, Pa., starting June 24. 
The Irish captured the Indiana State team title with 21 points, Purdue landing second with 11. Capt. Fay and Canale defeated their teammates, Harold Bowl­er and Jack Joyce, 6-4, 6-2, 6-3, to take the doubles crown in an all-Notre Dame finale. Canale, sophomore from Mem­phis who has played the No. 1 spot most of the season, defeated Don Maris of Earlham, 6-1, 6-1, 6-1, for the individual title. Maris had eliminated Fay, the de­fending singles champion, 8-6, 5-7, 6-4, in the semi-finals. 
The Irish won from Wabash, Ken­tucky, Indiana, and DePauw, and lost close matches to Western State, Chicago, and Michigan. Cajiale, Joyce, and Heck­ler lost but one match each, with the first two capturing six victories. In ad­dition, Joyce lost but tivo sets, Canale three. 
Scores for the past season follow: 
Notre Dame, 6; Wabash, 1 
Notre Dame. 8; Kentuclcy, 1 
Western State, 6; Notre Dame, 3 
Notre Dame. 9; Indiana, 0 
Chicago, 6; Notre Dame, 3 
Michigan, 5 ; Notre Dame, 4 
Notre Dame, 6; DeFiiuw. 3 

Performance chart for the team for dual competition follows: 
Ranic  Player  Matches  Sets  Games  
W  L  W  L  • W  L  
1 Don Canale  _ 6  1  12  3  83  49  
2 Capt. Bill Fay ._ 4  3  9  7  85  74  
3 Jack Joyce  _ 6  1  13  2  88  49  
4 Harold Bowler  4  3  9  7  73  71  
5 John Walsh  _2  2  5  5  SO 41  
6 Normjn Heckler 4  1  8  4  5E 48  
7 Joseph  Garvey  1  1  3  3  27  26  
S Frit! Nagel  _I  1  3  2  26  X­ 
28  13  62 33  488 37a  

GOLF 
Winning the last four dual matches and capturing the Indiana state individ­ual and team chamiponships, the Irish golf team registered a highly successful season. Capt. Walter Hagen, Jr., played the best golf of his career in the last few weeks of the season, climaxed by his triumph in the Indiana State singles competition with a 76-75-151 total. In the team eventy the proteges of the Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C, carded 617 strokes to win. Phil Donohue had 154, Sammy Neild, 155, and Bill Schaller 
totaled 157. 
The team won 6 out of 9 matches after a shaky start. After beating Pur­due, 29-7, the Irish lost three of their next four matches. They rallied to stop Minnesota's previously undefeated squad, 17-10, and then won tough matches from Michigan State, Wayne, and Detroit. Donohue and Bill Wilson registered the best individual scores of the season, 72's, at Illinois, and their 36-hoIe totals of 148 at Illinois also ranked No. 1. 
Neild, who will captain the team next spring, had the best season average with 76 per round. Averages include: 
Sammy Neild. Pawtucket, R. I „ 
_76 

Bill Wilson. Port Huron. Mich 
-76.2 

George Costello, Crystal I«ake, II 
-76.5 

Phil Donohue, Sioux City, Iowa­
-76.8 

Walt Hagen, Jr., Detroit. Mich_ 
-77.6 

Bill Schaller, Milwaukee, Wis Milo Wolf, Port Huron, Mich­
rs.e 

George Schreiber, Albuauerque, N, Mex SO 
The 1939 record in dual meets: 
Notre Dame 29, Purdue 7 Notre Dame 8%. Michigan 1S}A Notre Dame 11. Illinois 16 Notre Dame 13, Marquette 5 Notre Dame 10%. Northwestern 16% Notre Dame 17. Minnesota 10 Notre Dame 10%, Michigan State 7% Notre Dame 14, Wayne, 4 Notre Dame 10%, Detroit 7% 

Lou FeWig, St. Louis, captain of Notre Dame's 1937 golf team, walked oif with top honors in the annual Alumni tournament during the Commencement 
•week-end with 77-77-154. Lou's brother Vince, captain of 1934 Irish golfers, fin­ished second, posting 78-79-157. 
BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame set an all-time scoring record in basketball last season when Coach George Keogan's proteges piled up 986 points via 383 field goals and 220 free tosses. Eddie Riska of Chicago, captain-elect for 1940-41, breezed into the scoring leadership with 232 points. 
The Irish \von their first four games, then lost the next four, and appeared headed for a disastrous season. Then with Rex Ellis, Don and Bob Smith, the whirlwind relief crew at center and the two guards, taking over, the team won six games in a row and took nine of the last 11 to equal the 1938-39 won and lost record. They missed an .810 season by three points, losing to Michigan by two, and to Butler by one. The Ellis-
Smith-Smith trio alternated with Mark Ertel, Larry Ryan and Gene Klier to bring rapid results. Then in the later games, with Sophomore George Sobek out of action with a leg injury. Senior Ken Oberbruner took the starting assign­ment and averaged better than 11 points per game. 
Midway in the season the club had a five-game winning streak in which Notre Dame scored 52 or more points per game. Ellis, Ertel, Klier, Oberbruner and Don Smith are lost but Riska, Ryan, Bob Smith and Sobek form the nucleus for the future. 
Coach Keogan's all-time record now reads: Won 282; Lost 84; Tied 1 for an overage of .770 over 17 seasons, one of the best in the nation. 
The 1939-40 record includes: 
Xotre Dame. 62. Kalamazoo. 34 Notre Dame, 63, Valparaiso, 26 Notre Dame, 5-1; Cincinnati, 17 Notre Dame, 51 ; Wisconsin, S3 Michigan, 41: -Notre Dame, 39 Southern California, 55: Notre Dame, 3S Illinois, 42: Notre Dame. 29 Northwestern, 47; Notre Dame, 37 Notre Dame. 33: Syracuse. 29 Notre Dame, 52: Kentucky. 47 Notre Dame. 55: Butler, 39 
Notre Dame, 55: Penns>*Ivania, 35 Notre Dame, 56: Northwestern, 27 Notre Dame. 58: Illinois, 40 New York TJ., 52; Notre Dame. 45 Notre Dame. 38: Toledo, 30 Notre Dame, 46: John Carroll, 27 Notre Dame, 36: Marnuette, 39 
Butler. 39: Notre Dame, 38 Notre Dame, 36: Marquette. 32 Notre Dame. 47: Detroit, 40 

FENCING 
Traditionally strong in the sabre, Notre Dame's fencers displayed a power­ful attack in the epee as well, even while overcoming foil weaknesses to win 5 out of 9 matches. 
Walter M. Langford, assistant to Pro­fessor Pedro de Landero in the past, took over as coach of the squad and succeeded in directing it to a winning season. High­lighting the season was the fine work of Joseph Smalley. Other monogram win­ners who were instrumental in Notre Dame victories include: Jerry Donovan, John Gaither, John Gavan, Bob Sayia, and Russ Harris. 
Results include: 
Notre Dame n . Detroit 6 Notre Dame 14, Northwestern 8 Notre Dame 7, Michigan State 10 Notre Dame 12, Chicago 15 Notre D^me 15, Ohio State 12 Notre Dame 10, Michigan State 17 Notre Dame 17, Marauotte 10 Notre Dame 7^ , Wisconsin 9% Notre Dame 9. Washington V. S 
1939 FOOTBALL 
In a season in which but one touch­down or less provided the margin of victory in eight of nine games. Coach Elmer Layden's gridmen presented the nation one of the most thrilling seasons in the annals of Irish history. Johnny Kelleher's place-kick handed the Irish a 3 to 0 victory over Purdue in the season inaugural, first in the second half cen­tury of Notre Dame football. Kelleher, son of the 1913-14-15 Irish halfback, 
Bill Kelleher, and teammate of Purdue's Coach Mai Edward, bounced into prom­inence as a senior after having been a fifth team quarterback in 1938. 
Again capitalizing on place-kicking, Notre Dame survived a dangerous Geor­gia Tech rally in the final minutes and 
1940 CAPTAINS 
Football — Milton J. Piepul, F.B., Thompsonville, Conn. 
Basketball — Edward J. Riska, F., Chicago. 
Track — Jo&epH B. Olbrys, dis­tances, Trenton, N. J. 
Baseball Andrew J. Chlebeck, C.F., St. Paul, Minn. 
Golf — Samuel J. Neild. Central Falls, R. I. 
Tennis — John L. Joyce, Spartan­burg, S. C. 
Fencing John F. Gaither, Louis­ville, Ky. 

walked off with a 17-14 victory over the Orange Bowl champions. Harry Steven­son's field goal in the first period even­tually provided the margin of triumph while Bob Saggau and Joe Thesing later scored and Lou Zontini added a pair of 
. placekicks. For Tech, 140-pound Johnny Bosch was the major star in a clever passing, running, kicking exhibition. 
A week later, Kelleher's fourth period place kick became the margin of triumph again as the Irish won from Southern Methodist, 20-19. Milt Piepul, who cap­tains the 1940 gridders, marked up two touchdowns and Zontini one. The cele­brated aerial circus of the Southerners centered upon the ground-gaining abili­ties of Mallouf and Johnston. 
On the first play of the second quar­ter, Benny Sheridan raced 26 yards for a touchdown as Notre Dame beat the Navj% 14-0. In the third stanza, Piepul barrelled over for the game-winning tally. One of the largest crowds of the season moved into Cleveland for the an­nual encounter between the Irish and Midshipmen. 
Blocking Muha's place kick with his nose, Center Johnny Mclntyre was the hero of the Irish 7-6 victory over Car­negie Tech. For the second year in a row. Bill Kerr scored the only Notre Dame touchdown. This time he inter­cepted Condit's fumble in midair and scored. Zontini's place-kick eventually spelled victorj' when it was coupled with Mclntyre's sensational block. 
Senior Harry Stevenson scored the only touchdown of his career to spark the Irish to a 14-0 win over the Army in New York. Late in the game Sopho­more Steve Bagams intercepted a pass and galloped 40 yards to score. Steven­son place-kicked both points. Despite the sensational punting of Stevenson. Iowa capitalized on its .4.11-American 
back, Nile Kinnick, to edge out the Irish, 7-6, at Iowa City. Piepul scored for the Irish but Zontini's kick went wide of the uprights. 
The following week-end Notre Dame waitel until the last eight minutes when Bob Hargrave, Steve Juzwik, and Piepul collaborated in an 84-yard touchdown drive to score against Northwestern. Hargrave's 52-yard runback of a punt was the highlight, in the 7-0 triumph. In the season finale, Grenny Lansdell an3 Ambrose Schindler, Southern Cali­fornia's ace ball carriers, accounted for three touchdowns to halt the Irish. The Irish, however, made their best offensive showing of the year. Benny Sheridan, with his invalid mother watching from a car just off the playing field, raced 60 yards for a touchdown in his final game. Piepul crashed over for the other Notre Dame score as the Trojans won, 20-12. 

1939 RECORD—Won, 7: Ix)st, 2 Notre Dame, 3; Purdue, 0 Notre Dame, 17: Georgia Tech. 14 Notre Dame, 20: Southern Methodist, 19 Notre Dame, 14: Navy, 7 Notre Dame, 7: Carnegie Tech, 6 Notre Dame, 14: Army, 0 Notre Dame, 6: Iowa, 7 Notre Dame, 7: Northwestern, 0 Notre Dame, 12; Southern California, 20 
100 73 

1940 FOOTBALL "We could have used another two 
•weeks very nicely, but I'm satisfied that we accomplished a lot in a brief spring training session." 
That, mates, is Coach Elmer Layden's estimate of what happened in spring practice. It doesn't tell the whole story. In fact, if you break it down, it doesn't tell much of anything, which was prob­ably the boss's intention in the first place. 
Going right over Elmer's head to downtown headquarters of the St. Joe Valley Amateur Coaches' association, we find that the Irish are really going to burn things up in 1940. This must be a correct estimate—you get such a much better perspective from Walgreen's corner. 
Plagued by bad weather—there were days when it was so cold that drills were limited to half an hour—the Irish never­theless accomplished a lot in about three or four five-day weeks of actual prac­tice. 
But there was a lot to be accom­plished, and whether it was all done will not be known until next Fall. For ex­ample, there was the matter of replacing 10 of last year's 11 starters. Tom Gal­lagher, junior left tackle, is the orphan. There was the greater problem, after picking probable starters, of discover­ing, sorting, and coordinating reserves. Most of the coordinating will be done, of course, come Sept. 10. 
And there's the little item of the schedule. That's important. 
Taking our points in order, and look­ing at the team by positions, we find as follows: 
LEFT END—Gone are Bud Kerr, ail-American, Frank Bia^, and probably Pete Arboit, who ranked in that order. George Rassas, Stamford, Conn., senior, was slowed up by injuries last Fall, but 
• the big Greek boy has all it takes for the No. 1 spot, apparently. He's falst, agile, rough, and a fine pass receiver. Roy 'Lil' Abner) Ebli, Ironwood, Mich., jun­ior; Phil Sheridan, Rutherford, N. J., senior; and Bob Dove, Youngsto^vn, Ohio, sophomore, all have the makings— not of a Kerr perhaps, but of capable wingmen. Experience is the main re­quirement lacking now. 
LEFT TACKLE — Gallagher is back, as mentioned. Behind him, aind not far behind at that, is Big Jim Brutz, Warren, Ohio, junior letterman. Lou Rymkus, giant Chicago sophomore, gives Line Coach Joe Boland all the strength he needs. 
LEFT GUARD — Pete Kelly, senior letterman from Chicago, is not flashy, but he's a ball-plajyers' player, capably suited to move into Joe DeFranco's shoes. Three reserves under him could be picked out of a hat at this time. They are Ed Sullivan, Belle Harbor, L.I., junior brother of the late Capt. Joe Sullivan of the '35 team; Henry (Heinie) Schren­ker, senior brother of Paul, '34 guard, from Elwood, Ind.; and Bob Maddock. Santa Ana, Calif., junior. We might as well include here Joe Laiber, South Bend junior, who also plays right guard. He's no dummy, either. During the early con­fusion of last year's spring drills, Joe took a shot at each guard post, and wound up as a valuable utility man. Leaiding sophomore is .A.ndy Michels, a Mishaw^aka lad. 
CENTER—The rangy, agile frame of 20o-pound Bob Osterman carries a large burden in '40. A made-over end. Bob has waited two long years for his chance. He played in the No. 4 spot, which meant he played hardly at all, last year after fighting his way up from the B squad under Bill Cemey's direction, to a spot just under John Mclntyre, Jack Finner-an, and AI Mooney, all of whom will be graduated in June. The fiery Detroit senior will do. And he will get help from Martin O'Reilly, Chicago junior who weighs only 180, but knows how to throw his weight around. Center, along with left end, needs more reserve devel­opment than any other post. 
RIGHT GUARD—Chuck Riffle, the re­formed fullback who finally got a break last Fall after missing the '38 season with a leg injury, is not only graduating in June, but is so sure of his degree that he took unto himself a mate, during the Easter holidays. John Gubanich, Phoe­nixville. Pa., senior with tvro monograms to his credit, will start the season, barr­ing accidents. He has already done more for his size than any other 160-pound (or less) linemen in Fighting Irish history, by getting tivo letters with the shock troops. Bert Metzger didn't get a letter until his junior year—and he made all-. American as a senior. If memory serves correctly, Bert was a long-count junior at that, in the days before the 8-semester 
rule. Under Gubanich come Hercules Bereolos, Hammond, Ind., junior, and the aforementioned Joe Laiber. Best sopho­mores appear to be Ed Kopshever, Chi­cago, and Owen McGoldrick, Philadel­phia, whose brother Jim, captained the 1938 eleven. 
RIGHT TACKLE—Despite the loss of Thaddeus Harrison (Tad) Harvey, the mountain that runs like a man, the situa­tion is rosy at this post, as at left tackle. Paul Lillis, White Plains, N. Y., and Cliif Brosey, Ozone Park, N. Y., the eminent shot putter, both won letters as sophomores last year. Add to them Bob Neff, 240-pounder from Buckhannon, W. Va., which is about to be placed on the map; and Walt Ziemba, 23a-pounder from Hammond, Ind., and you have the kind of material that will allow Coach Boland to concentrate his worries on the centers and guards. 
RIGHT END — Capt. Johnny Kelly won't be back, but Johnny O'Brien, in the opinion of End Coach Joe Benda. looked better in spring drills than at any previous time. Howard Petschel, St. Paul, Minn., junior developed fast to pass several others, and Jolm Kovatch, South Bend junior, is also available. George Murphy, kid brother of John, 1936 letterman, and Norman Barry, Jr.. who needs no further introduction, lead the sophomore candidates. 
QUARTERBACK—Steve Sitkos don't come along every day, but it is no dis­credit to Steve, as he retires from the collegiate scene, to say that Bob Har­grave, Evansville, Ind., junior letterman, gives promise of equalling his feats. Hargrave can block with his 179 pounds. He is fast and agile. He can throw and catch passes. He can really bring back a punt. As a field general he combines daring with sound reasoning. Best re­serves are Walt O'Meara, Stamford sen­ior; Frank Doody, Oak Park, III., senior; and Clarence (Jackie) Hayes, Atchison, Kans., junior. Anthony Girolami, 200­pound Chicago sophomore, and Wilbur Riordan, Sioux City, Iowa, sophomore, are the best of the newcomers. 
LEFT HALFBACK—You can't drop old dependable, Harry Stevenson, and speedy Ben Sheridan out of the picture without losing a double-dipped threat. With two of the "S-Men" gone. Bob Saggau, Denison, lowai, senior, will carry on. You don't have to read these col­umns to know that Saggau can kick, pass, and run, and that he had a great sophomore year. Injuries slowed him last year, but we have a hunch hell blossom this Fall, cashing in on his ex­traordinary talents and his co^ierience. Under him come Reserves Bill McGan­non, senior from Evansville, Ind.; Don Hogan, Chicago junior; and Nick Pep­elnjak, Virginia, Minn., junior. Pete. Marko, South Bend, junior, may be shelved with a bad knee. Leading soph­
omores are Owen (Dippy) Evans of South Bend and Detroit; and Bill Earley, Parkersburg, W. Va. 
EIGHT HALFBACK—Lou Zontini, a three-year regular, is well known to all of you, and we needn't extol him, even if he is leaving these precincts in June. With all credit to Lou, the right half­back situation shapes up well. Bemie Crimmins, Louisville, Ky., junior, and Steve Bagarus, South Bend junior, both lettermen, are back. Steve Juzwik turned in such a spring practice showing in Crimmins' absence with the baseball squad, that some say he'll take over next Fall. And Joe Prokop, the biggest of the lot, seemed to find himself in this year's spring drills. He may cash in on his size and sprinter's speed next Fall. 
FULLBACK—Joe Thesing, three-year regular starter, won't be around in the Fall, but the position is well filled by the ample frame of Capt. Milt (Moose) Piepul, last year's leading ground gainer and scorer, whose bid for all-American honors v.-ill be aided by his passing and punting talent. Al Lee, senior from Car­linville, HI.; Bob Leonard, Cincinnati senior; Charles AIcNeill, Midland, Pa., Junior; and Joe Postupack, Mc.A^doo, Pa., junior, head the reserves in that order. Postupack got a bad knee in the final spring game, which the varsity won, 25 to 13, from the graduating Old Timers, but may be ready in the Fall, Haxry Wright, Hempstead, L.I., and Ambrose Dudley, Philadelphia, Pa., topped the prospective sophomores in spring prac­tice. 
College of Pacific, coached by A. A. Stagg, •will open the schedule Oct. 5. There has been raucous laughter in some quarters concerning the ease with which Notre Dame should win from this little band from the Coast . . . and last year Iowa was Notre Dame's "breather." Don't forget Pacific dumped California last year, 6 to 0, and held Pop Warner's undefeated San Jose State to a 13 to 3 victory. 
Georgia Tech is at Notre Dame Oct. 12 for the second game. This was sup­posed to be a breather the past two years, and Notre Dame just squeezed through. In 1939 Notre Dame's 17 to 14 victory was the most decisive registered over the Orange Bowl conquerors of Mis­souri, Duke having won a 7 to 6 game. 
Carnegie Tech shouldn't beat Notre Dame when they meet Oct. 19 at Notre Dame stadium. But Tech shouldn't have knocked Notre Dame out of a national championship, 19 to 0, in 1926, shouldn't have been the only team to defeat the Irish on Cartier field in 23 years in 1928, shouldn't ha.ve won in 1933 and 1937, if you want to consider the statistics a cri­
terion. These upset specialists from 
Pittsburgh are always dynamite. And 
they have the moral support of Elmer 
Layden's private little jinx in competi­
tion with first-year coaches. Dr. Eddie 
Baker is taking Bill Kern's place at Tech 
this year. Dr. Eddie .. . hmmmm; name 
sounds familiar. 
Iowa, reputed to be a better team than in 1939 when it amazed the football world by taking second in the Big Ten conference plays the only other home game, Nov. 16. 
The road schedule calls for Hlinois at Champaign Oct. 26—did you notice what Illinois did to Michigan last year, and what Bob Zuppke's boys have done year after year when they were really hopped up? 
Then come Army at New York, Nov. 2, and the Cadets are long overdue; . Navy at Baltimore -with an improved team, Nov. 9; and a grand finale of Northwestem's husky power-laden crew at Evanston, Nov. 23, and Southern Cal­ifornia's Pacific Coast and Rose Bowl champions at Los Angeles, Dec. 7. 
N. D. AND THE WORLD WAR 
(Continued from Page 270) 
volved in the present installment of the World War. Again Notre Dame has been called upon, and again she has given most generously, and reading back through the years the records she has made leads us to believe that in any further emergency she will be found doing her full part. The University and all who hail her as Alma Mater, may properly take justifiable pride in her splendid record "For Country." 
At Notre Dame, peace is not some­thing to be sought at any price but it is a condition to be prayed for as the will of (Jod to spare the sacrifice of lives, health, opportunities and resources the loss of which Notre Dame has previously experienced. The plea for Peace from Notre Dame is not a plea read from a textbook or uttered from a cloister — it comes from men who have rubbed shoul­ders with death and destruction and who today pass the graves and War Memorial of their fallen patriots, who no longer can speak for themselves. 
If they could speak to us, I believe they would say: 
"Men of Notre Dame, you know the history of our country, and you know that every right of human liberty, and our democratic form of government,­have been secured and maintained only through sacrifices of your patriots, and you must be prepared to defend at all times, if need be, your government, your liberty, your churches, your schools and your homes against anyone who would attempt to destroy them." 
NINETY-SIXTH COMMENCEMENT 
(Continued from Page 256) 
monies, the Baccalaureate Mass and the Awarding of Degrees. 

Two splendid addresses which features these occasions are reprinted in this issue. Since the Class and -visitors have long since outgrown Washington Hall and the Church, both ceremonies were held in the University Gymnasium. Those who have seen the Gym transferred for these acti-yities have been amazed at the impressiveness. It was crowded for both events. 
A Sunday innovation this year was the program of the Biological laborator­ies, headed by Prof, J. A. Reyniers, '30. Exhibition and demonstration of equip­ment and the showing of mo-ving pictures of the work attracted a capacity audi­ence to the laboratories after the flag-raising. Open house in the other Col­leges also gave alumni and other ^'isitors an opportunity to meet the Deans and members of the faculties. 
Smith Monogram Head 

At noon on Sunday the monogram alumni gathered for their annual lunch­eon in the Dining Halls. Maurice "Clip­per" Smith, '21, Villanova, was elected president of the group for the ensuing year, succeeding Chet Wynne, Frank Miles, South Bend's diamond perennial, was re-elected Secretary in a strategic move, as he had just begun to work, and is now stuck mth it. 
At 2 o'clock the 11th Annual Council of Local Alumni Clubs was scheduled for a meeting at the Law Building, But, ha-ving tried all times of the Commence­ment week-end, this important annual clearing house of Club ideas seems defi­nitely to need other scheduling or meth­od. The Alumni Ofiice would like to pay tribute to Pennsylvania, the Phila­delphia, Harrisburg and Western Penn­sylvania Clubs all having representatives on hand, Cleveland also was on deck as usual. But otherwise, the sum total of constructive news from the meeting is the decision to stage it at other times and other places. 
At 4 o'clock came the key event about which all the rest of the week-end re­volves.' And in the eloquent Commence­ment Address, Senator David Worth Clark, '22, not only rewarded the capa­city crowd with a masterful address in itself, but also supplied for the large number of parents of Seniors and for the Seniors themselves the living proof of the strength of Notre Dame training. 
The Sunday sun has never set on a big­ger Commencement. It has seldom, if ever, set on a better. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
«

ALUMNI CLUBS 
CLEVELAND 
Cornelius J. Ruffing* '32. Bulklcy Blig.,president; Dr Myron E. Crawford, Detroit-Cook Bid e Lakcwood, Secretary. 

The annual business meeting of the Notre Dame Club %\'a5 held May 15 in the Salle Modcrne of the Hotel Statler (the Bob Morrisscy influence at an early date). Principal business of the meeting was the election of officers for the year 1940-41. Coming as they did, the dny following the state and local primaries, the interest shown was heartening. Cornelius J. (Nick) RulTinfr, young attorney and ardent N.D. worker, was elected to succeed John J. Collins ns president. Jerome G* Reidy was chosen to fill the office of vice-president and brings with him a wealth of knowledge and experience in things Notre Dame. A member of our increasingly active younger group, Robert J. Mazanec, was returned as treasurer. For reasons unknown to anyone, this secretaryship happened to me. 
A few evenings later, at a meeting of the newly-elected officers, the following were chosen to serve on the Board of Governors: William R. (Billy) Ryan, '10; John J. Reidy, '27. James L. Callahan, '30; William J. Van Rooj-, '32; Robert 
H. Hackman, '38; and the outgoing officers, John 
J. Collins, 32, Edward B-Killcen, '33, James E. Uprichsrd, '33, and G. Albert Lawton, '35, ap­pointed to serve the term of Richard P. Prezcbcl. A meeting of this Board was called for June 4. 
May 27, 1940, marked the 25th anniversary of the ordination of the Rev. Michael L. Moriarity, '10, club chaplain, and. in commemoration of the event, he was presented with a sizable purse by his fellow Notre Damers in Cleveland. Father Moriarity is one of our most popular and faithful members. 
An item of interest to all who knew him is the "flash" (delayed) regarding Bob Colgan, '34. Last October, Bob went to Alameda, Otlif., to assist in the traffic department of the Raymond Concrete Pile Company, handling the materials and equip­ment for the building of naval air bases and for­tifications in the Hawaiian Islands. And — all since October — Bob met Miss Esther Jensen and to her he was wed on April 27. His parents Journeyed to the coast for the wedding and they, too, succumbed to California, et-al. Bob and Mrs. Colgan are happily keeping house at 2510 Central Ave., Alameda, Calif. (How's that, McMonasle?) 
Saturday, April 20, saw the marriage of Jim Callahan and Miss Kathcrine "Winters in St. Luke's Church, Lakewood. They are living on East 82nd St., and you can't get Jim out for a Board of Governors meeting. 
At a meeting of Democratic committee precinct-men, Ray T. Miller was elected chairman of the County Democratic Committee. 
John Raleigh is recovering from a long siege of hospitalization, and we look fonvard to his return to N.D. activity. 
Dr. Francis Gannon was fathered April 16 with his first-born, a son, James Charles. All three arc doing fine. Al Shipacassc repeated with a daugh­ter, Mary Kay, on March 25. 
Future item — Bob Mazanec will drive to the Coast for the U.S.C. game and will take passen­gers — please contact him. 
The 7940-7947 ilfufflni Board 

Very Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C, '99, Notre Pame, Ind  Honorary  President  
Kay J. Eichenlaub, '15, Columbus, Ohio  President  
Clyde E. Broussard, '13, Beaumont, Texas  ,  First  Vice-President  
Thomas P. Byrne, '28, Cleveland, Ohio  Second  Vice-President  
James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, Ind  Secretary-Treasurer  
William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind.  Assistmit  Secretary  
Francis H. McKeever, '03, Chicago, 111  ,  Director  to  IHl  
Edward F. O'Toole, '25, Chicago, 111  Director  to 1942  
John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich  director  to 1943.  
William J. Moonej'', Jr., '15, Indianapolis, Ind  .  Director  to 1944  

Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17, Chicago, 111 Representative of 1940 Class—to be elected 
Thomas C. Byrne, known as Tom (Cadillac Press) Byrne, and the "angel" of our "Notes and Dates" is at Mount Royal Sanatorium, North Royalton, Ohio, and watting to hear from you. 
A large delegation of Clevelanders returned to the campus for Commencement. Nick Ruffing and Bob Mazanec represented the club at the con­ference of Local Alumni Clubs. In the annual election of officers for the national Alumni Asso­ciation, Thomas F, Byrne, our Tom (Telephone) Byrne, was elected second vice-president. Con­gratulations to Tom, and to the national associa­tion on the choice. 
Plans are being made for a summer party and also the annual golf tournament. 
Hats off to Collins. Killcen, Uprichard, and the now-absent Prezcbcl for a big 1939-40 in Cleve­land. May their return to private business be a joy to them and their employers. 
Mike Crawford. 

DES MOINES 
Charles H. Lynch, '29. 407 Southern SuretyBIdg.. President; William R. Robison,, '33,. 4th Floor. Iowa BIdg., Secretary. 
Just after Charley Lynch opened his new law office under the name of Lynch, Dewey and Kastrup, with offices at 1203 Southern Surety BIdg., he received orders to hold himself in read­iness to report for active duty with the United States Army. 
Emmctt Barron, '27. is back in Des Motnes with the Employers Mutual Casualty Company. 210 7th St. 
After trying for some time I finally was able 
• to contact Lee Kramer, '34, w-ho is service mana­ger for Dun & Bradstreet Inc. 512 Royal Union Life Building. I am trying to get Lee to move in with me so that Notre Dame will have a little more of an even break as my present roommates are alumni of Dartmouth. Wisconsin and Iowa. 
Several weeks ego the father of one of my roommates spent several hours telling us about Notre Dame some 30 years ago when he attended ­the Minims, and then continued t y telling us of his days at Oxford. Mr. Young travels a great deal over the entire country and occasionally is able to contact some of his Notre Dame acQuaint­
Ex-Officio Director to 1941 Director to 1941 

ances. His address is, John Young, c-o Lehigh Portland Cement Co., AHentown, Pa. 
Another name that should be on your list is that of Len Lally, c-o Lally Service Company. 1120 Mulberry St., Des Moines. 
That just about clears up the Notre Dame news for this time with the exception that the writer missed joining that select group of golfers who have made a hole in one because the flag staff was leaning the wrong way. 
Bill Robison. 

CENTRAL OHIO 
Loois C. Mnrphy, '33. 962 Sheridan Ave.. Colambns. President; Alfred O. Varley, ex. *26. 42 E. Gay St , Colambus, SecreUry. 
Due to the fact that Sunday^ Slay 12, is Hrst Communion Day in the Columbus diocese it was not possible for us to arrange a breakfast; how­ever, we did have a nice turn-out for the Notre Dame Club Communion at the eight o'clock Atass at St, Joseph's Cathedral. 
On May 17 and IS Jake Kline and his boys came to Columbus and were successful in defeat­ing' Ohio State in two games, both of which were real ball games and worthwhile victories. 
On May IS we entertained the team with a dance at the Knights of Columbus ballroom, and the affair was well attended by a number of our prominent members in and around (^lumbus. Among those present were: Ray Eichenlaub, Harry Nester. Paul SIcDonald, Jack Cannon, Dan Can­non. Chet Rice, Joe Ryan. Jim Flannigan. Bud Wilhelmy, Don Haverick. Don Hamilton. Jack Gcddes. Pete Varley, Ed Sporling, the Igel broth­ers. Zieg Ziegler, Dr. Dunn, Judge McBride. and Joe Rotunda. 
Fifteen very charming young ladies from St. Marys of the Springs, Columbus, were invited to be dancing' partners for the boys on the team, and, from what we could gather, the boys were very well satisfied with their dates. The girls seemed to think that the team danced just as well as they played ball. 
Always a loyal supporter of Notre Dame, Eddie Sullivan, manager of the Knights of Columbus, added to the enjoyment of the evening by serving a buffet supper fit for a king. 
It was certainly a gratifyinK espcrience to hear of the complimentary rcmorks about our sood fiiend, Jake KUne. and his fine bunch of boys, and it is the hope of the Central Ohio Club that we can have they pay us a visit each year. 
Bud Murphy. 

GRAND RAPIDS 
Joseph Boyland. *3l. 611 Grand Rapids.Nat'l 
Bank Bid?., President; J. Thomas Campbell, 
*3.=!. 407 Peoples Nat'l Bank Bidfr-, Secretary. 

This is the first article in the "Alumnus" as to news of the Notre Dame Club of Grand Kapids in quite a while. The Grand Rapids Club has not for many years been very rtronir, but watch us from now on. We have fceen building our club around a veo" few men who have spent most of their spare time trying to pet the 130 alumni interested. We started with about 15 men out 01 a roster of over 130. In a year we have iust about tripled the men who have become interested and we have been having between 40 and 45 at each monthly meetinE. which is always held the first Wednesday of every month in our club rooms in the Pantlind Hotel- And it seems every month that the Grand Rapids' fellows are becomiuE more and more interested in not only formingr a strong Grand Rapids alumni club but also a strong Grand Rapids Club on the Notre Dame campus, which we hope will shape into form next Septemter. 
Last fall the club sponsored a ticket activity for the Georgia Tech and Southern California gsmes. Out of the proceeds we gave a good sum toward our Bockne Memorial fund which we have pledged. Don Lcvondowski, *33. was the sparlc behind this drive. 
I^ast winter we hold our annual winter formal in the main ballroom of the Pantlind Hotel with George Brogger, *3S, as general chairman. It was very successful and those on the committee. George Jackoboicc, '31, and Don Lcvondowski, *33, should be highly congratulated. 
AVe are planning (as this is written) our last 

meeting until next fall on June 5. At this meet­
ing we have invited this year's graduates and also 
those juniors, sophomores and freshmen attending 
school and who live in Grand Kapids and sur­
rounding territory. We hope from this last meet­
ing to form the Grand Rapids Club on the campus. 
Wc are sure the Grand Rapids boys will be happy 
to hear of such formation. We are not restricting 
it just to Grand Rapids men but also men from 
Holland, Grand Haven, Muskegon, and all other 
close surrounding towns-
Later in June wc arc holding a picnic at Lake 

Michigan for the boys from school. We hope they 
will all be there. 
For June IS we are planning our annual Summer Formal at the Spring Lake Country Club at Spring Lake. Mich. Bob Alt, *27, is gen­ei-al chairman. (By the way. Bob was recently married and took a wonderful boat trip to Curaco, Netherlands, West Indies, La Gutara. Caracas, and Amaracay, all in Venezuela, and also the Panama Canal and Colombia, South America. He showed us at one of our monthly meetings the movies which he took while on the trip. How he stayed away from those U-boats I don't know.) 
The Big News For the -first time in the history of the Grand Rapids Notre Dame Club we are running a foot­ball excursion from Grand Rapids to the Georgia Tech game, which will be played at Notre Dame, October 12. We hope to sell close to 300 football and railroad tickets. The railroad fare will be very reasonable, and wc hope to have a fare which will give all who want to go a good foot­ball ticket and a round trip ticket on the train for less than $5.00. Tbe excursion will leave 
Grand Rapids Saturday morning* October 12 about 10:30 E.S.T. and arrive on the Grand Trunk siding east of the stadium about 12:30 
C.S.T. This will give the followers an hour or so to look over the Notre Dame campus, of which we are all so proud. We hope to make this an annual affair, and do hope that our alumni from surrounding towns will bacTc us. 
We are proud of the newly appointed office Joseph Decb, A.B.. '31, LL.B., *33, just received He has been appointed United States District At­torney in Grand Rapids. Not only Grand Rapids alumni should be proud, but also all other alumni of Notre Dame. 
Robert B. Linsey. 

GREATER LOUISVILLE (Kentucky) 
Louis J. Hollcnbach, ex. *37. Glencoc Distil­lery, Louisville, President; Russell Leonard, *34, Frankfort Distilleries, Inc., Loui5\'illc. Secretary. 

The Notre Dame Club of Greater Louisville had a very well attended meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night, and at that time the following mem­bers were elected to office: . 
Louis Hollcnbach, Gtcncoe Distillery, president; Joe Donaldson. Adier Mfg. Company, first vice-president: Shelley Bannon, Louisville (^ty Hall, second vice-president: Mams Pope, Lincoln Bank, treasurer: R. J. Leonard. Frankfort Distilleries, secretary. 
Tbe club sponsore<l a dance on Saturday night. April 13. and while complete returns had not been received at the time of our last meeting. Shelley Bannon, who was chairman of the dance, said that we would probably net approximately 5175 on the affair. The Notre Dame dances are very pop­ular in Louis\'iIle, and the people seem to look forward to them. 
Getting back to our meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night, the retiring president. Bob Burke. hrd appointed a nominating committee which "was composed of: Bill Bosler, Frank Bloemer and Jimmic Costello. 
These men were charged with selecting two nominees for each position but they forgot to nom­inate anybody for second vice-president. Of course, the entire club membership was up in arms about this outrage, so we decided to make Shelley Bannon second vice-president in spite of the nominating committee. 
On Monday. May 13, we inaugurated the first of a series of weekly luncheons, which we hope will become a permanent thing. _ At the first luncheon meeting, which was held in the Watter­son Hotel, we found: Connie Pfeiffer, Bob Burke, Mams Pope. Frank B!ocmer, E. P. Moran, Dave Baird. Ray Pfeiffer. Louis Hollcnbach, Bill Bosler. John Bannon, Dr. Henr>' Asman, Russ Leonard. 
That these luncheons are going to be very-I>opular is evidenced by the fact that at the sec­ond luncheon meeting we saw the following new faces: Joe Donaldson. Charles Morrow. Ed Pfeif­fer, £d Moriarty, Jim Stcncric, Tom Bulleit. Bob Wilke (by the waj-. Bob, were you able to obtain those football pictures which we talked about at our last meeting?) John Forsce, Bill Rctsert. 
I may have missed a few, but if I did it was purely unintentiona'. Incidentally. I am going to conduct a Winchell Guest column each month, and in the event that Henry Asman doesn't pcnd you some inside information from Louisville for the next issue of the "Alumnus," I personally don't want to take the full responsibility. Each month we are going to have a member offer some spice news for this column, and Henry has volunteered to take the first round. 
If any Notre Dame men are in Louisville on 

Monda>'s, please have them come to the luncheon at 12:15 P. M. in the Watterson Hotel Grill. Russ Leonard. 
GREEN BAY, WIS. 
John D. Clancy, ex. '35, 525 Clay St., Presi­dent; James E. Engcls, 11a S. Madison St.. Secrctarj-. 

At a recent get-together the alumni of this area decided to reorganize their club with the goal of more active participation in University affairs. As a result John Clancy was elected president; Ike Farrell, vice-president: and Jim Engcls, secretarj'-treasurer. 
One of the first efforts of the club was the collection of a fund to send to the Rev. J. W. Donahue, C.S.C. (former superior general of the 
C.S.C. order) to help him in his missionary work in Texas, specifically in the erection of roadside chapels. 
The club also elected Emmett Evans of Green Bay to honorary membership in the Green Bay Chapter.. Mr. Evans is one of the greatest Notre Dame boosters in this area. He makes all Notre Dame games, usually with Ed Gould and the Chi­cago crowd. 
Jim Engcls. 

LOS ANGELES 
Charles S. Gass, '30, 1225 Citizens Nat*I Bank Bldg., Los Angeles, President; Martin 
B. Daly, ex. *28, 201 Dcnslow Ave.» W. Los Angeles, Secretary. 

The luncheon held April 27 to show the pictures of the "Highlights of the 1939 Football Season" was a very successful one. It was held at the Rosslyn Hotel. We were sorry wc had to make it a luncheon as that let out all the movie crowd and the aviation plant workers, as noon is impos­sible for them. However, the rest of the fellows showed up in force and everj'one was enthused about the pictures. 
AVhilc the pictures were good, the talk that Adrian Race gave to go with them added to them a lot. He was able to identify a lot of players who were just fleeting figures without the talk. Also he could identify some of the new buildings, which was more than a lot of us' could do. I know that Harold Harstick, '25, and Bion Vogcl, '25, were talking to me when the new engineer­ing building was shown, and we could hardly believe that the lowly shanties of our day had gone so ritz>*. Henry Ncwmark, '78, our oldest alumnus, had a hard time with nearly all the buildings, and Leo Ward, '20, is even threatening to go back to check up on the new stuff. So be­tween Race and the pictures the affair went over with a bang. 
We are planning an evening party for July. ~ and Larry Moore is to be the chairman of the committee but the details are not set as yet. Marty Dalj*. 
NEW JERSEY 
Harvey P. Rockwell, *34, 1202 Essex House. 1048 Broad St.. Newark. President; Andrew 
E. O'Kccfe, '33, 7 Mountain Road, Verona, Sccrctarj'. 

The election meeting was held early in May. and during it a number of items of business were cleaned up. Reports were submitted from the treasurer and committee chairmen, including Placement, Universal Notre Dame Night, and the Constitution. 
Chairman Phil Heinle gave the members a sum­mary of plans for a day at the shore, June 22. 
Now the boys from Jersey City can be very happy. They have been requesting representation in the club management for some time, and this year they will have it in the person of George Wcnz, Jr. (Incidentally, George IH has a baby sister, and we are glad to report that Mrs. W. is fine). George succeeds John Ncubauer as vice-president. 
Tom Treacy succeeds one of the best treasurers we have had in some time, — himself. (If you think he isn't eood, just try to get a nickel from him. I've been tryinff to Ket him to pay for the stationer!* for some time.) 
Andy O'Kcefe did some very fine pinch hittins as secretary this year, and the club was so deliRht­ed with the job that they elected him to the job permanently for next year. 
That leaves the problem of the presidency up to your humble servant, and if the constitution com­mittee doesn't get under way, it may be a prob­lem. However, cs you know, even if we .don't have any money, we have a lot of fun. 
H. P. Rockwell, Jr. 

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Howard Parker, '17, 219 State Bide. San Francisco, President; Robert L. McDonald. 
•30, 1032 Ardmore Ave, Oafcl:ind, S:crctary-

The most successful meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Northern California in recent years was held at the Olympic Club of San Francisco on Universal Notre Dame Night. 
AmoHK those present were Kcene Fitspatrick. 

W. T. Byrne, Ed Massa. Leo Bancs, George LcycS. Harry Burt. Bob McDonald, Jcrr>- Parker, Ray­mond Parker, Dan E. Sullivan, Paul Enright. Elmer B. Wynne, Paul Cushing. Bcrnic Abrott. Bernard GafTncy, Jr., Bill Rapp, V. C. Mayl. Greg Cushing, William McAIIcn, Howard Parker. John J. Cassid}', Milton Parker. 
Tlie following officers were elected for the com­

ing year: Hou-ard Parker, *17, president: Paul 
EnriRht, '31, vice-president; and Bob McDonald* 
'^0. secretarj". 
Bob McDonald. 

AKRON. OHIO 
Joseph J. Wozniak, '29, 2116 First Central 
Trust BIdg., President; Glenn Smith, '27. 
2022 First-Central To%ver, Secretary-. 
Iliis picture was taken when members of the 
.Akron Club met on March 31 for Mass and Com­
munion in memory of Knute Rockne. 
Glenn Smith, new secretary, kindly sent the pic­ture and the identification of individuals. In the back row, left to right, are Larrj- Halter, '31, Glenn Smith, '27, Bill Burkhardt, *35, Frank Stcd, '25, And>- Snyder, '30, Vic Wcigand, '35. Bill Murray, *35. John Domn. 'SS, John Dettlinc. '21, Ed Dunlc\T (father of Jack), Tom Markcy. *29. Tom Weiffand. present student, Steve Woz­niak, '28. Dick Botzum, '31. Art Dutt, '33, Jack Dunlc\T. present student, Walter McCourt, Jr., present student, Hugh Calopy, *33. 
In the front row are Dr. James G. Kramer. '11, Dr. Andrew Devany, '11, A. A. Hilkcrt, *11. Claude Homing, "i9. Dr. Pat Doran, '23. Joe 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) Louis V- Bmggncr, '23, 129 W. Je£Ferson. South Bend. President; Clarence Harding, '25, South Bend Tribune, South Bend, Sec­retary. 
Shooting a low cross of 81, Elwyn "Mike" Moore led the alumni participants in the club's annual golf party at the Moriis P^rk Country Club, South Bend, on May 0. Al Johannes was second in the alumni group. Among the repre­sentatives from the campus. Father Thomas Bren­nan, C.S.C., was first, and Comptroller Frank Lloyd was second. Jim Karablen and Don Rans­bergsr, respectively, led in the guests* scores. 
Blind bogey prizes went to Dennis Moran. Pro­fessor Jim Dincolo and Pete Redden, and honors ' for high gross, to Frank Miles, Coach George Keo­
gan and James McGarrity. 
The party, with more than 200 in attendance, exceeded even the high mark of other years. Elmer Laydcn was again the general chairman, with' notable assistance from the Athletic Association stafT, especially Herb Jones and Bob CahiU. Rec­ognizing his special interest in the parties since their beginning, the club presented a gift to Jay Wyalt of Chicago. 
Officers of the club met in the home of Treas­urer Floyd Searcr on June 7 to plan activities for the year. Those present wore Chairman Frank ^lilcs. President Louis Bruggner, Vice-president Gerald Hoar, Secretary Clarence Harding, and Assistant Treasurer Jim Mechan, together with Mr. Searer. 
Apologies to the prexy! A linotype slip and a proofreader with a too-<iuick eye combined forces to omit his name from the list of club officers in the May "Alumnus." Louie was, of course, elected with the. other officers at the directors meeting on April 2:>. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
George J. Schill, '27, Municipal Garage & Repair Shop, Expo. BIdg.. Duqucsne Way, Pittsburgh, President; Rev. Vincent P. 

Kraker, *29. Ed Raub. '23. Father T. J. Taylor, Walter McCourt, '16. Art Kecncy, *22, Tim Rsuh, '24. Tony Wcitzcl, Mike Lundcrsin and Charles Schnurr, '29. 
The club followed this excellent activity wath a buffet supper on Universal Notre Dame Night, at which new officers were elected as follows: Joe Wozniak, president; Joe Kraker, vice-president; 
A. A. Hilkcrt. treasurer: and Glenn Smith, sec­retary. Claude Homing was chairman of this event, assisted by Steve Wozniak, Joe Kraker and Glenn Smith. 
Joe Kraker, as vice-president, will be chairman of the club's Christmas dance, annually for the p:ist 16 years one of the city's leading holiday events. Immediately ahead when Glenn Smith wrote were a special reception on June 24 for Raj* Kelly, '15, national commander of the Amer­ican Legion. Plans were in the making for the Summer Formal in August. 
Brennan. '32. St. Peter's Rectory* SM Western St., Tarentnm. Pa., Sceretarr-

The club still holds its weekly luncheons at noon every Thursday at the Hotel Henry in downtown Pittsburgh. I try to get down as often as duty will permit, but that can only be once every couple of weeks. I have noticed some hew faces at the luncheons. Rudy Cmkovic, '34, has become a reg­ular patron, and the last time I was at the me2t­ing he had John Pavlic, also of '34, with him. John is now working in the county comptroller's office. Bob Kvatsak was also present for one of 
. the luncheons. At the Universal. Notre Dame Kight celebration I ran across Mike Sheridan, '22, who is district manager for the Scisel Construc­tion Company in Pittsl)urgh. 
I hear pretty regularly from Jim Devlin, '33. who is still with the Personal Finance Company here in Pittsburgh. Jim tells me that other Notre Dame boys with the same company are Ted Lee and Paul Lesko. I had a letter recently from Bub Waddell. ex-Tcch football coach, and at present general agent for the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, in which he informed me that Tom Cronin. '39, now holds a position with that company. Ed Cosgrove, '34, is getting ready to step into the ranks of the married, and if all goes well yours truly will perform the cere­mony. Ed still lives in Dormont and is still con­nected with the A. & P. : the bride to be is Miss Ann Ullom, who hails from Knoxville, another suburb of Pittsburgh-
Occasionally I run across Joe Clark, still post­master of the neighboring borough of Natrona. In the parish here are two former N". D. students, viz.. Sam West, now with the Aluminum Com­pany at New Kensington, and John Clark (Joe's brother) who is working; for the Pittsburj-h Plate Glass Co. in Creighton, Pa. 
Father Vince Brennan. 
C A. A. COURSE ON CAMPUS 


The University signed with the Civil Aeronautics Authority a contract to con­duct this summer on the campus a ground school in the preliminary course of the collegiate phase of the civilian pilot training program. Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C, is the admira'strative di­rector of the course and Professor F. N. 
M. Brown, head of the University's De­partment of Aeronautical Engineering, is in direct charge of the ground work. Actively assisting are Robert B. Riordan, registrar, and Dugald C. Jackson, Jr., dean of the College of Engineering. 
Flight instruction for the course is conducted at the Bendix Municipal Air­port, South Bend, with the Stockert Fly­ing Service, Inc. and the Indiana -Air Service in charge. Students enrolled di­vide their time each day between the campus and the airport. The federal gov­ernment pays both ground and flight tui­tion for the 36 students enrolled. 
The course at Notre Dame is restricted to men who have passed their eighteenth birthday and have not passed their twenty-sixth and who have had one year of college work in 1939-40 or two years of college work prior to that time. Those who pass the present course will be eligi­ble for the intermediate pilot training course, which prepares for the instruc­tors' course or for the Army Air Corps. 
» » ^
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Irene O'Connor and William L. Jacobs, Jr., *36, of I^kewood, Ohio. 
Miss Ijorene Brown and John V. Coj-ne, '36, of Van Nuys, Calif. 
Miss Mary Elizabeth Gilbert and John A. Gillespie, '37, Westfield, N. J. 
Marriages 
Miss Ruth Crave and James W. Power, '32. were married. April 27, in Beloit, Wis. Walter 
E. Terr>-. '32, was one of the ushers. 
Miss Francesca Helena Schrauder and Thomas 

E. Griffin, '33, were married, recently, in Chi­cago. Among the attendants were Frank Kloas, 
•27, and Edward Ackerman, '33. 
Miss Elizabeth DeGroote and John R, Wallace, *34, were married, June 15, at Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Leila Schade and Paul J. Stolzc. *35, took place, April 25, in Assumption. IlL 
Miss Mildred Froning and Raymond A. Herrly, '36, were married. May 19, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Casimira Gudynowski and Louis Ncmeth, '36. were married, recently, in South Bend. 
Miss Ruth Adella Miller and Winficld S- Day, Jr., '36, were married, June 4, in Miami Beach, Florida. 
Miss Dorothy Margaret Lucas and John W. Norton, '36. were married, June 15, in Rochester, 
N. Y. 
The marriage of Miss Lenora May Smith and Fred C. Weber, Jr., '36, took place. May 18, in South Bend. 
lUiss Mary Jane Heinsheiner and Thomas SL Reardon, *36, were married, June 22, in Sioux Falls, S. Dak. 
Miss M. Shirley Van Hoff and Francis J. Rcilly, '37, were married. May IS, in New York City. 
The marriaEC of Miss Anne Jameson and Albert J. Schwartz, '37. took place, recently, in Salina, Kansas. Frank A. Carroll, '37, was best man. Among the attendants were Parker Sulli­van, '37. Norhert Schwartz. Jr., '33, and Robert Siegfried, '37. 
The marriage of Miss Sallic Dobson and Walter 

C. Troy, '37, took place, recently, in Pittsburgh. 
Miss Doris Mae Weise and J. Fcndall Froning, '37, were married, June 8, at Notre Dame. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. James D. Hurley. *24, announce the birth of a son, John Edward, on May 6, in LaSalle, III. 
Mr. and Mrs. George A. Bischoff, '25, announce the birth of a son, John Robert, on April 28, in Indianapolis. 
A son, Timothy, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Paul S. Benante, '26, on May 5, in East Chicago, Ind. 
A Son, Thomas Francis, II, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Farley, Jr., '27, on June 5, in Jamestown, N. Y. 
Mr. and Mrs. Burton E. Tocpp, '28, announce the birth of a son, April 30, in South Bend. 
A son was born to Mr. and Mrs. Paul Bartholo­mew, *29,^ on May 1, in South Bend. 
A daughter, Susan, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Walter R, Bernard, .'30, on May 23, in Celina, Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs. Karl R. Wcigand, '30, announce the birth of a son, on May 21. 
^ A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Daniel J. Egan, *31, on April 4, in Chicago. 
A daughter, Barbara Suzanne, was born to Prof. and Mrs. Frank Flynn, M.A. '31, on May 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. John O. WciMer, '31, announce the birth of a son, John Paul, on April 7, in Oak I'ark, 111. 
A daughter, Marie Ann, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John A. Jordan, '32, on April 27, in New York City. 
Mr. and Mrs. Vincent D. O'Neil, '32, announce the birth of a son, Dennis, on May 21, in H>*annis, Mass. 
A daughter, Susan Mary, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John Staunton, '32, on May 22, in Maj*wood, III. 
A daughter, Patricia, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Edward B. Killeen, *33, on March 17, in Cleveland. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Cashman, '34, announce the birth of a son, Michael, on May 31. at Kirk­land Lake, Ontario. 
A son, Joseph Raymond, HI, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Joseph R. Glennon. Jr., '34. on May 22, in Needham, Mass. 
A son, Thomas John, was born to Mr. and Mrs. James Q. Keams, *34, on June 1, in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles T. Williamscn, '35, an­nounce the birth of a son, December 11, in Great Neck, L.I., N. Y. 
A son, Robert Martin, Jr., was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Tcccder, ex. '36, on Klarch 19. in Minneapolis. 
Mr. and Mrs. James E. McCarthy, Jr., '38, an­nounce the birth of a son, James Edward. Ill, on April 29. in Brooklyn. 
Deaths 
A brief notice from bis office in Chicago brought word in May of the death of William J . Stange, a student at Notre Dame in the late 1880's. Mr. Stange was elected to the Alumni Association in 192S and has been n generous and faithful member of it since then. His laboratories and factory in Chicago dealt in flavoring materials and food colors. 
George Stuhlfanth, RE . '00, of Wausau, Wis., died in a Columbus, Ohio, hospital on May 6. Ray Eichenlaub, of Columbus, kindly sent word of Mr. 
Stuhlfauth's death to Father Hugh O'Donnell. president of the University. 
Martin P. Meehan, ex. '15, Glendale, Calif., West Coast merchandise manager of Sears, Roe­buck & Co., died in a Ravenswood, III., hospital on May 3. He had become ill six weeks previously while on a business trip to the Chicago area. Sun-iving are Mrs. Meehan, three daughters, two brothers and a sister. Burial was in California. 
Mr. Meehan was elected to the Alumni Associa­tion in 1930 and had maintained a continuous and concrete interest in the Association's activities snce then. 
A notiHcation from the post office department reminds the "Alumnus" that it has unfortunately never made official record of the death of a de­voted honorary alumnus. Most Rev. Joseph H. Conroy, LL.D. '24, bishop of Ogdensburg, N. Y. 
Jerry Benning, '25, told the "Alumnus" a short time ago that Ralph W. Scnn, B.C.S. '24, of Chi­cago, had been killed in an automobile accident on July 29, 1939. 
John Paul Cullen, *22, sends word of the death of Lawrence Dcctcr, ex. '27, whose address in the alumni records was Wabash, Ind. John Paul promised to forward details of Larry's death as soon as be could get them. 
Carlos A- Alorrison, ex. '37, Wayne, W. Va., was killed on April 23, according to a clipping reaching the Publicity Department of the Uni­versity. 
Noble E. Kizer, B.S. F.Com. *ZZ, Lafayette. Ind.. noted both as a guard on the Four Horsemen football team of 1924 and as athletic director and head football coach at Purdue University, died on June 13 after an illness of three years. A kidnt^­ailment from which other complications resulted ended his nationally colorful and successful career. a career which had kept him unusually close to Notre Dame in spirit as well as geography 
Nobc leaves behind him his wife, who is a sister of Edgar "Rip" Miller, '25, one of the tackles on the Four Horsemen team, and two sons, Richard and Noble. Jr., in addition to his father. two brothers, and two sisters. One of his brothers is Marshall Kizer, '30, Plymouth, Ind. 
Funeral ser\'ices for Nobe were held in the Central Presbyterian Church, Lafayette, on June 15, and burial was back in his "old home town," Plymouth. Representing Notre Dame at the ser­vices were a large delegation from the campus, as well as innumerable Notre Dame friends from other points. 
Nohe had been associated with Purdue ever since his graduation from Notre Dame, first as assistant to Jimmy Phelan, '17, head football coach, then, from 1930, as head football coach, after Jim Phelan moved to the University of Washington. He added the athletic directorship to his duties in 1933. 
Illness forced Nobe to relinquish his head coaching job to his assistant, Mai Elward, '16, in August, 1937. After a two years' leave of ab­sence he returned to the post of athletic director in the fall of 1939 and continued in that until he was seriously stricken again on June 10. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Robert M. Anderson. B.S. 'S3, Cirdeville. Ohio. 
- for many years secretary of his class and always one of the most exemplary and generous of Notre Dame men, died in Girclevillc on June 3, accord­inr; to brief word from his niece. 
After receiving his Science degree from Notre Dame. Professor Anderson attended the Stevens Institute of Technology and was graduated as a mechanical engineer in 18S7. He taught at Stevens Tech. Hoboken, N. J., from 1888 to 1898 and from 1913 to 1930, when he retired. From 1S9S to 1913 he was engaged in the practice of mechanical engineering. 
Professor Anderson was a devoted member of the Alumni Association and was continually a contributor, not only of "dues" but also of sub­stantial amounts to the Living Endowment Fund. He was likewise one of the "Alumnus'" most faithful contributors and his recollections of his days at Notre Dame were eagerly read. 
Ihe "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to Aaron H. Hugucnard, *22, upon the death of his mother; Dr. Francis, *25, and Dr. Chester Kowa­linski. '35. upon the death of their father; John W., *2", and Karl T. Brcnnan, '30, upon the death of their father; John F. Dunne, *28, upon the death of his wife; John A. Byrne, ex. '29, upon the death of his father; John O'Neill. *29, upon the death of his father; William T. Slader. '32. upon the death of his father; Prof. Henry B. Froning, upon the death of his wife, and J. Fcn­dall Froning, '37, upon the death of his mother. 
Personals 
Before 7880 
C(>.M3LEXCE.>IEXT JEEGlSTItANT (1S77) Frank Vennet, South Bend. 
P. E. Barke, '88, 301 

Before 1890 Camp, New Orleans, La. 
1 0OA OO ^^ - J- -^ BlacNamara, *97. lOTU^TT Saint Joseph's SaniUritim. Hoont Qemens, Hldiiean. 
COM.>rENCE>IKNT KEGISTILVNTS 

(1S93) George L. O'Brien. South Bend; (1894) Henry Fernedlng. Dayton, Ohio; (1895) Col. Jim McKee. Versailles. Ky., (LL. B.); Rev. illchael Ryan, Macomb. lU.; (1S97> J. "W. Losh­bough. South Bend; Rev. John A. MaeXamara; (1S9S) Jerome J. Crowley, Chicago; Frank E. Hering. South Bend; (1S99) Very Rev. Thomas .\. Sleiner. C.S.C. Xotre Dame. 
The Notre Dame of the '90*s is intimately revealed in an interesting letter received from Mrs. Joseph W. Digglcs, 6419 Wayne Ave.. Chi­cago. This glance backward recalls vividly the memories of Notre Dame men of old who played important roles in the history of the Universit>'. 
Her few "lines o' type" read as follows: 
MEMORIES OF NOTRE DASIE 

"I have just seen in 'CThicago TVibune' that it will be 50 years on December—is it 10th or 12th 7 —that the Auditorium was opened. 
**I was there. My dear father invited Father Walsh, president of Notre Dame. Professor Maur­ice Francis Egan, then English professor at the college, and Brother MarcclUnus, prefect of disci­pline. My brother, who attended Notre Dame at the time, had a bad headache, so I was invited to join the party. It is an ill wind that blows no good. I went, elated, of course. I am ashamed to say I do not remember the name of the opera — never was musical — never will be, but I do remember when Patti sang for an encore 'Last Rose of Summer.* Always her favorite encore. 
fornia game last Saturday. Some few years after the opera party I speak of. Mother and I at­tended a football game at Notre Dame. A crowd —perhaps 150 people—stood in the snow watching the battle and, believe me, it was a battle. The only surprising feature was the fact that they were not all killed. A real surprise came as the boys rose up again—and w-ent on with the fight. 
"Father Morrisscy was then president. He turned to Mother and said, 'I just hate it—but they tell me it will make Notre Dame.' Has his prophecy come true?" 
10AA AA ItobU E. Proctor. '04, Monccr ITVU-U'r BoUdinff, Elkhart. Indiana, 
COniEN'CEJIKXT RECISTKAXTS 

(1301) Rev. George Marr, C.S.C., Notre Dame; (1302). Rev. Leo J. Reiser. C.S.C.. Notre Dame; Vitus G. Jones, South Bend; (1903) Rev. J. Leonard Carrlco, C.S.C.. Notre Dame; Rev. Matthew J. Walsh. C.S.C Notre Dame; (1904) 
G. A .Farabaugh. South Bend; Rev. Thomas P. In-ing, C.S.C., Notre Dame; Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago; Joseph E. Poulin. South Bend. 
Attorney Robert E. Proctor. Elkhart, Ind.. heads the Rural Bankers Legion Life Insurance company, of South Bend, as president, having been elected by the company after the consolida­tion of the original Rural Bankers life and the Legion Life in 1936. 
The Third Congressional District's vote for the republican presidential nominee at Philadelphia on June 24 will be cast by E. M. Morris, and James Oliver, II, both of South Bend. Ind. They were elected delegates to the national convention by the district's ISl delegates in the Indianapolis state convention. 
10AC AO R«T> Thomas B. Bnrke, C.S.C, ITU3"UT '07. Notre Dame. Indiana. 
COM.MEXCEJIKNT KEOISTIL\NTS 

(1905) William D. Jamieson, Chicago; (190l>) Howard F. Beechliior, Detroit; ReV. Eugene P. Burke. C.S.C, Notre Dame; Rev. C- L. Doremus. CS.C. Xotre Dame; Rev. James H. Gallagan. C.S.C-. X^otre Dame; E. M. Morris. South Bend; (1907) Rev. Thomas Burke. C.S.C., Xotre Dr.nie; Rev. Wendell P. Corcoran. C.S.C.. South B\!nd; James V. Cuniilngham. Chicago; {190S) Paul Broccolo. Chicago; J. A. Caparo, N^otre Dame; Frank X. Cull. Cleveland: Leroy J. Kcach. India::apo:U: Max'iniran J. Et. Gcorgo. Chit ago. 
The promotion of Ambrose O'ConncII. former president of the Association, from second to first assistant postmaster general by President Rocse­velt. met with wide acclaim and innumerable con­gratulations. Unfortunately, as this is written, Ambrose is confined to Mercy Hospital. Sacramen­to, Calif. Details of his illness are lacking. 
 M. L. Harlartr.

1910 •tr. 
An^ CkTclaad. OU*. 

. .COM,UENCEMENT REGISTRANTS 
James J. Connell. Newport. R. L; James E. Deery. Indianapolis; Rev. Peter E. Hebert, CS. C, Notre Dame; Rev. Michael A. Mnthis. C. S. C Notre Dame; M. Harry Miller. Wilmington, Del.; Rev. Edgar J. Misch. C.S.C., Notre Dame; Claude A. Sorg. Middleton. Ohio. 
101 1 ^'*^ Stccn, UW Fint Natlmal BaaOt 
• Til Baildinr. C^caco^ Illinoia. 
COM-VENCE^IENT REGISTRANTS 

Rev. Patrck Carroll. CS.C. Notre Dame; Edward L. Figel, Chicago; Ktmo Funk. Andorr son. Ind.; Jasper Lawton. South Bend; Rev. Charle.s Mlltner, CS.C, Notre Dame; Joseph 
B. Murphy, Dayton. Ohio; Fred Steers. Chicago. 
 J. KaiMr. 324 Fovrth St., Pitt»­

1912 B. 
bnrgh, PeimaylTaiiia. 
COMMENCE3IENT REGISTRANTS 

John M. Bannon. South Bend; Don Hamilton. Columbus. Ohio; Rev. Bernard H. Lange, CS. C, Notre Dame; Donelly McDonald. Fort Wayne, Ind.; Joseph B. McGIynn. East St. Louis. III.; Paul Rush. Memphis, Tenn.; E. H. Savord. Sandusky. Ohio. 
^0V ^ Panl R. Bynie, Unlvertity Lihntr. I T I ^ Notre Dame. In£ana. 
COniENCESIENT REGISTIt,\NTS 

2klanuel F. Arias, Varadcro, Cuba; Paul R. Byrne, Notre Dame; William E. Cotter. New York City; Rev. J. Alan Heiscr. CS.C, Xotre Dame. 
Sympathy is extended to the wife of Probate Judge John F. O'Connell. who suffered a scalding accident recently while cooking in her (Hiicago home. Mrs. O'Connell suffered severe bums on the left leg and was confined to the hospital for a few weeks. 
Frank H. Hayes, 642 Third AT*., 

1914 
Chnla Vista. California. 
COM3IEXCE.>IENT REGISTIC^VNTS 

Ray T. iUller. Cleveland; Artliur Ryan, To­ledo. 
lOlC James E. Sanford, 3725 Clinton AT*., 1719 Berwn. Ulinola. 
CO.>UreNCE.^IENT REGISTIL\NTS 

X*. C. Bartholomew, Iron Mountain, Mich.; Hardy Bush. Jr.. Newark. N. J.; J. M. Byrne. Newark, N. J.; Walter Clements. South Bend,. 
(A. M.); Rev. Patrick Dolan. CS.C. Notre Dame; Ray Eichenlaub, Columbus. Ohio; Jo­seph Farrell. Camp Hill. Pa.; Edw. I. Foley. Chicago; Dr. C. E. Hadden. Indianapolis; Jo­seph J. Healy. DesPlaines, III.; Rev. K. Healy, C.S.C.. Notre Dame; Chester Holman, Sr.. Leav­enworth. Kans.; Galvln Hudson, Memphis; W*il­liam A, Kelleher. Lorain. Ohio; Ray Kelly, Detroit; Albert A. Kuhle. Chicago; Larry La-
Just before the 1915 dinner on May 31. Left 
—South Bend Tribune Picture . 

 to richt. Bay Eidienlanb, Bob Boadi. Jira 
"My son attended Notre Dame-Southern Cali­
Sanford. Ray Kelly, and Father Pat Dolan, all of the I9IS- class. 
Jole. Detroit; John S. JIalkowski, South Beud; 
J. A. SIathew.s, Milwaukee; John ilcShanc, In­dianapolis; W. J, Mooney, Jr., Indianapolis; Dennis S. Moran. South Bend; Harold H. 3Iun­ger, Toledo; Joseph S. Pliska. Chicago; Norman Ranstead, Wllmctte. III.; Edward RIely. Min­onk. 111.; Robert L. Roach, Muscatine, Iowa; James Sanford, Berw>-n, 111.; Henrj* B. Sny­der, Hammond, Ind.; J. W. Stack, East Lan­sing, Mich.; Joseph Stephenson, South Bend; RajTHond J. Sullivan, New Hampton, Iowa; Leo P. AVelch. Indianapolis; March AVells. Bloomlngton. 111. 
It was an unbeatable week-end. The attendance was little less than phenomenal. The class dinner was delightful. Father Dolan, at his headquarters • in the Mission House, was a thoughtful and gen­erous host to the *15ers. Even the class picture was a brilliant success. 
The whole grand v.-eek-end was due in large measure to the continuous planning and work and inspiring cheerfulness of the class stcretary, Jim Sanford. This Mr. Sanford will descend upon the Alumni Office with shooting irons when he reads this, but all his classmates ought to know that Jim arranged the week-end program, and carried it out. while his w-ife was in bed with arthritis -— where she had been for four months — and while his son was in the hospital sultering from a serious inner infection which has puzzled doctors for months. 
The modest class secretary reports the week-end activities as follows: 
*'The class reunion dinner was held in the fcculty dining room of the campus Dining Halls at 6 o'clock Friday evening. As you know, this class has been modest about its achievements, but wo are perfectly willing to challenge any class to top our attendance percentage at Commencement. Including those who were on the campus for a few hours (some of w-hom didn't register, unfortun­ately) and those who stayed over at least one night, the attendance was in excess of 40, which is approximately 50 per cent of the members of the class that the Alumni Office is in contact with. It goes without saying that Jim Armstrong, Bill Dooley and the Alumni Office staff deser\-e the credit for bringing back such a large group to the campus, 
"Ray Eichcnlaub took a few minutes from his campaign for the presidency of the Alumni Asso­cii:ti,on to preside at the dinner- He w-as appointed for the purpose of guaranteeing that no one would make a speech, but he granted a dispensation to Father O'DonncU, president of the University; Father Matthew Walsh, former president; Judge Hcno' Fcmeding, '94. Dayton, Ohio, a special guest at the dinner; Ray KcH>-, national command­er of the American Legion, who had traveled 17,000 miles to be at the dinner; and your sec­retary, who read greetings and regrets from a score of class members w-ho were unable to be present. Some of these notes have been published in the 'Alumnus.* To these must be added the telegram of Jim Lawler, Rock River, Wyo., who said, 'Kindest regards to my classmates.' 
"Toastmastcr Eichenlaub read the list of the members of the class who have died, and, in re­membrance of these, the diners stood in silent prayer for a minute. Through an unfortunate slip in the records, one death was a slight exag­geration, as Mark Twain would have it: Henry Snyder listened w-ith amazement as his name was read and prayers were offered for him. Later investigation showed that the Alumni Office hadn't had an address for Henry in 15 years, and that a confusion between 'unclaimed' and 'de­ceased' had thus crept in, 
"Eich, besides doing a grand job of presiding at the dinner, provided generously the floral dec­orations for the tables. Our thanks to him. 
"Father Dolan offered his Mass in the Log Chapel on Saturday morning for the deceased members of the class, and a large delegation of the reunioners assisted at it. Father Dorcmus on Sunday morning in the Dillon Hall fihapel, — we Were housed in Dillon for the week-end — offered the class Mass for the special intention of Mark Duncan. Mark had been baptized by Father Doremus 10 days or so previously. 
"Mark continues (as this is written) to fight his courageous battle at the United States Veter­ans' Hospital. Hines, III. He sent the following greetings: 'Sorry I can't make it. You know how much I regret missing this anniversary. May it be a big success. I'll be thinking of all of you fit that time.* 
"To give Mark convincing evidence that we were thinking of him, the entire class and Father O'Donnell and Father Wakh signed a memorial letter which w-as sent to Mark immediately after the dinner. 
"A photograph of the members of the class was taken on Saturday morning. Any one desiring a copy of this, or a second copy, can secure it by mailing 50 cents to Jim Armstrong in the Alumni Office. 
"Ray Ktlly has issued an official invitation to all members of the class who are Legionnaires to be his personal guests at the national conven­tion in Boston next fall and to attend the Com­mander's Dinner, which, all veterans know, is the topnotch social affair of these gatherings. 
"Had there been a prize for the *15ers with the largest family, Leo Welsh would have been an easy winner. The latest reports indicate that there are 10 children in his family, and, inciden­tally, Leo told your secretary that he is holding down four jobs to keep the family in good run­ning order. One of I^eo's sons will be a sopho­more at Notre Dame next fall, and another son, Leo, Jr., finished at Notre Dame in 193S and has just finished at the Han*ard Graduate School, 
"In behalf of the membership of the class of litis, congratulations are extended to our beloved all-American sportsman. Ray Eichenlaub, who was elected president of the Alumni Asociation, and to Bill Mooney, who was elected a director of the Association for a four-year term. 
"Notes: March Wells brought his 'beautiful daughter' with him to the Commencement. Bill Kellcher and Ray Sullivan had sons with them. One of Bill's sons finished at Notre Dame this year — he was the goal-kicking specialist on the football team last fall •— and another son will finish next year. Joe Pliska continued his fight­ing Notre Dame spirit by being present at the Reunion, which was perfectly exemplifying. 
"Twentj'-five years is a long time, and there are many changes in the lives of all of us. There is much that could be said about our Reunion, but our space is limited and we regret that we have to let the memories suffice. The secretary takes this opportunity to request all the members of the class to keep him informed of all activities. We hope to bring 60 members of the class back to the 50-year reunion, 
"One final word to the class: make every effort to return in '41 but be sure not to miss Notre Dame Centennial in *42." 
FKONT COVER PICTURE 
All left to risht—Rear row: Kdir, San­ford, KuMe, Ed Bailej, '23; 2nd row, Monecr, Hcalr. Foley, Bartholomew, Far­rell; 3rd row, Judce Henry Femcdinr, *94, Mathews, Eichcnlaub, Father James H. Gallaean, C.S.C., '06, La Joie, Moanty, Wells; Front tnir. Father Dolan. Bnsfa, Kellcher, Father Wendell P. Corcoran, 
C.S.C '07, Hudson, RoaA, SnlllTan, Snyder, Riely; Center, Pliska. 

Tlmotkr P. Galvin, Pint Tnut BaOd­1916 ing, Hammond, IndUaa. 
COMMENCESIENT REGISTRANTS 

Mai Elward, Lafayette, Ind.; Frank Finne­ran, Notre Dame; A. S. Fries, Peru, Ind.; Tim­othy Galvin. Hammond. Ind.; P. J, Hiss. South Bend; Rev, J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., Notre Dame; Edwin H. Sommerer, South Bend; "Wil­liam W. Turner, South Bend. 
Edward J. HeOaker, 33D9 Fairmoont 1917 Blvd., Clereland Hclffhta. OhSo. 
COMJIENCESIENT KEGISTIUNTS .James Boland. South Bend; Paul Fogarty, Chicago; R. J. Graham, Oak Park. HI.; D. E, Hilgartner, Jr., Chicago; George Shanahan, Liam, Ohio; Bernard J. Voll, South Bend; James R. "Walsh. Chicago; Fred "Wolf, Eau Claire, ^VIs. 
From Bemic Voll: 
"^VhiIe my memory is still a Httle fresh I think a little additional information about some of the '17-crs will be interesting to the rest of the class. 
"I think the members of our class should under­stand that at the spotlight program, which was held in Detroit on Universal Notre Dame Night, our old classmate, Harry Kelly, was the toast­master, and I think, without question, all who were present will agree that he did an excellent job. and it was no small task because there was a 'top* program and real class to the audience. 
"Charlie Bachman represented Michigan State, and he likewise made a very nice response. 
"Frank O'Donnell, Father Hugh's brother, who is practicing medicine, came down from Alpena with Father FitzPatrick. Red's brother, 
"After the banquet we proceeded to Gus Do­rais* house, and I beieve Harry KcUy and I tried to settle the present war on the basis of our ex­periences in the past one. Apparently we were not successful. 
"In my last letter I neglected to mention seeing Ed Moran, who is pretty faithful to the football games, on two or three occasions. He has been drilling wells in the ne%v Illinois fields for some time, and. so far as I know, is probably still active down there. 
"I hope these '17-ers will soon wake up and begin writing about themselves." 
John A. Lemmer, 901 Lake Shore Drive, 1918 Escanaba, Michigan. 
COMMEXCE.MKXT KE«ISTILVNTS 

Rev. Matthew A. Coyle, C.S.a, Notre Dame; Rev. George L. Holderlth, C.S.C, Notre Dame; Joseph T. Riley. Muskegon Mich.; George Schock. South Bend; Fred AVlnklcr. South Bend. 
Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce Stmt . 

1919 Gary,
 Indiana. 

C03I.MEXCE.MEXT KEGlSTIt.VNTS Rev. Philip Beaghan, C.S.C., South Bend; Mark Ellers. Rochester, N. Y.; Paul Fcnion, Notre Dame; L. V. Harmon, South Bend; Rev. James H. McDonald. C.S.C., Notre Dame. 
 B. Ward. 1012 Black Bldg., 
An«clea, CaUfomia. 

1920 
Leo Ln 
COMMENCEMENT REClSTIt.\NTS John Balfe. New Tork City; Paul R. Cona­ghan, Chicago; Rev. J. W. Connerton. C.S.C.. Notre Dame; Vincent P. Fagan, South Bend; Frank Farrlngton. South B».'nd; Rev. Francis 
P. Goodall, C.S.C., Notre Dame; Charles Grimes. South Bend; Rev. Stanislaus Lisewski. C.S.C., Notre Dame; Grover J. ^lalone. South Bond; Henr>' McCulIough. Davenport. Iowa; Walter R. MUlor. Cleveland; E. M. Moore, South Bend; Harry P. Nester. Columbus. Ohio; Dillon Patterson, South Bend; John C Powers, Cleveland; Rev. Leo L. ^Vard, C.S.C:, Notre Dame. 
For another year Father Leo L. Ward. CS. C head of the English Department, will head St. Mary's-Notre Dame branch of the American Poe­try society. Henry Bago, English instructor, who received his Master's in '39. was re-elected secre­tary and treasurer. 
Just 20 minutes were needed for the democratic Third district committee to recognize the merits of Notre Dame men. In completing their reorgan­ization, they re-elected M. Edward Doran, South Bend attorney and recently retired county demo­cratic chairman, to a third term as Third district democratic chairman. A. Gordon Taylor, '21, La Porte, Ind., is La Porte County chairman. 
Leo J. Hassenauer, chairman of the Board of Governors of the Catholic Lawyers Guild of Chi­cago, is the proud possessor of a letter of praise written by Most Rev. Samuel A. Stritch, Arch­bishop of Chicago. The Catholic La\vyers Guild held its annual Mass. May 19, at Holy Name Cathedral commemorating the canonization of St. Thomas More. This Mass was the object of Archbishop Stritch's commendation. 
From Leo Ward (on May 27): 

"As to hearing from members of our class, I heard only from Father Frank Goodall, of Wash­ington, who is editor of 'The Bengalese,' the mis­sionary magazine of the Holy Cross Order. He has headquarters at Washington and intends to be al Notre Dame for Commencement. Oscar Siden­fadcn, who was valedictorian of the class of 1920. is an engineer with the Department of Water and Power. He was formerly with the Edison Com-l>any, but when the City of Los Angeles took over the major electrical distribution for this part of the countrj-. Si was transferred with the assets of the Edison Company. He said that he hoped to get back for Commencement but was not sure that he could make it. 
"1 have been assured by Slip Madican, however. that he will be there. Slip, as a lot of us knew, had not teen well for some time, and he had advised the good Brothers at St. Mary's that at the expiration of his contract, which would occur in 1941, he did not think he would be able to con­tinue because of his failing health. He had been in the hospital in Chicago as well as Oakland and treated for a stomach ailment occasioned by the nervous strain of beinfr a football coach. Some of the members of the Athletic Board thought that if Slip was going to bo through in 1941, it might be bad for the team morale and it would be better if they made a change at this time. As a conscaucnce. Slip was paid up and relieved of his duties. Having seen Slip down here three or four days I can assure you that the relief from ^e^ponsibil^ty has worked wonders with his health. He has gained about 40 pounds in weight. The ailment, for which all the doctors had advised an oi>eration, apparently is clearing up and he ex­pects to be fully recovered by fall. Slip assures me that he wilt be at Notre Dame for Commence' ment with Mrs. Madigan, who. incidentally, is a South Bend girl, and all of his family. He expects to be around there for a good part of the summer. 
"I am sorry I do not have more information for you. Sorr>-. also, that I do not know more of the class of 1920 who are going back. I notice from the register that there are quite a few of the fellows who live around Chicago and South Bend and the Ohio cities, and I am sure you will have a good representation." 
 W. I>aff7. 1600 Terminal Tower, 

1921 Din 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
COM.^reNXEMKXT REGISTILINTS 

A. T. Bray. BcUefontafne. Ohio; Frank Coughlin, South Bond; Dan Duffy, Cleveland; Don Easley, Notre Dame; Gerald J. Hoar. No­tre Dame; Clarence J. Kline, Notre Dnme; Harry XfcLellan. South Bond; Frank Miles. South Bend; Joseph F. Sanford, Muskegon. Mich.: R. J. SchUbmelil. South Bend; M. J. Smitli. Philadelphia. 
Enthusiastic, with his decks all cleared for 20­

' year reunion action, Dan Duffy for^varded the fol­lowing letters from two of the class* leading members. Dan asks that other *21ers communi­cate with him at once so that he begin work soon to make plans for the 20-year gathering of the class on May 30 and 31 and June 1 next. (Note the happy circumstance of Memorial Day being the first day of the Commencement week­end in 1941.) 
As soon as he hears from a sizeable number of the gang. Dan will appoint a class committee to promote the reunion through corre:?pondence. His aim. of course, is the **biggest and best" 20-year reunion in Notre Dame history. With his early start on plans added to his energy and enthusiasm, he can hardly misj!. 
From Joe Brandy, Station WSLB. Ogdensburg. 

N. Y.. to George Wittcried: 
"You are worthy of a leather med:il with crossed pencils, the entire relief Lcing an eag.e pencil sharpener, for your coup in breaking into the column of the class of 1921, current issue of the 
N. D. 'Alumnus.' It was delightful to hear from some one. and many is the time I have threat­ened to write our auspicious secretary'. Judge Dan tWhite Pigton) Duffy. It is high time that us guys of '21 get going, as, indeed, we have more traditions, screwballs, and famed men than any other class going, including Fat (Marcellus) Stafford. 
"You inquire inio the whwray.-oL.is of Bill \ itz-Gerald, better known as (Couze). Bill Fitz lives in Fort Worth, Texas, and works ior the United Gas System.Leing at this time a utility tycoon. It was, indeed, a surprise to learn that Larry Morgan is a benedict. The last time I saw you in St. FViul, I understood you were a big Lutter and egg man, but the above Dittman Company doesn't sound much like it and alludes, I would say, to the book publishing business. 
"As for myself, I still continue to hit the ball, and have dropped coaching completely, have a aaily newspaper and radio station at present, and how long I will last is a question, but if the worst comes to worst, I can blame it on Hitler. Have two children, Joe, 12, and Mary. 14. 
"Best of luck, George, and if you find time, give me a few words now and then. I saw the Na\-y-N. D. game in Cleveland, last year, and met Duffy, I generally take in the Army game in New York, and meet up with several of the old boys. I may be able to make it this year for Commencement, that is if Lowell Thomas and Jack Benny don't crowd me too much. Say hello to all the boys, when you meet them." 
From George Wittcried to Joe Brandy: 

"Your letter received, and to say I was glad to hear from you would be putting it altogether too mild. I am sending your letter to Dan as I am positive the old gang all get the 'Alumnus* and will enjoy hearing that you are now a broadcaster as well as ye old editor. I suppose you got the broadcaster experience from the one armed fireman's daughter on Hill Street. Under­stand she taught Bill Fitz how to dance at Spring-brook Park. 
"Jack Mooney is anxious to do Chapin St. again- Norm Barry is a busy ia\i-yer. his main activity being Hauidating the state banks that closed when times were really bad. Suppose you knew that Hunk Anderson just signed to coach the Chicago Bears line. Have been taking some treatments from Doc Mohardt and showed him your letter. He has a nice practice and will soon be one of Chicago's leading surgeons. I hope he doesn't hear about the plug until after I get his bill. 
"Well, Joe, maybe the old gang of our time will pep up a bit and keep the column alive. The newspaper men from our time—you, Ardi Ward and (who are the others?) ought to go to town, as they know what goes on. 
"Maybe we can get a rise out of CUff O'SuUi­^an. I am sore at him—he doesn't even call me cp when he comes to Chicago. Don't know what became of Clyde and Didc Walsh. Was sorry to read in the 'Alumnus' about Joe Bfasin. What about McDermott from 'Joisey* and Joe McKennm from Far Kockaway? 
"Best regards to you, Joe, and to any of the boys you run into in your neck of the wocxis." 
1922 Gerald Aihe. 29 Lake Ave^ HUtoa. New York. 
COMME>'CE.>IKNT RECISTIC^INTS 

Gerald Ashe. Hilton, X. Y.; Gerald Brubii­ker. Elkhart, Ind.; Hon.. David. Worth Chirk. Walshfngton. D. C.; John P. Cullen. Elmhurst. in.; Jerome F. Dixon. Evanston. III.; James Foren. Detroit; George P. Heneghan, Chicago; Clarence E. Manlon, Notre Dame; James R. Martin. Chicago; Bernard J. McCaffery. South Bend; Thomas Owens. South Bend; Walter L. Shilts. Notre Dame; Walter J. Stuhldreher. In­dianapolis; A. H. Weber, South Bend; Chet. A. Wynne. Palatine. III.' 
From Kid Ashe: 
"We congratulate two of our classmates. Senator DaWd Worth Clark and Prof. Pat Manion, for their splendid work in the Commencement exer­cises at Notre Dame. Senator Clark delivered the Commencement address and Prof. Manion was toastmaster at the alumni banquet. Details are printed elsewhere in this issue. 
"Walter Stuhldreher is affiliated with A. G. Becker & Co., 215 Circle Tower, Indianapolis. The firm handles investments. 
"Dan Young, who was adjutant of the &JV.T.C. at Notre Dame in 191S, is an engineer for Fo!ey Bros., Inc., contractors, of Pleasantville. N. Y. Dan lives in Yonkers. 
"More than ordinary tribute should be paid to the success of one of our pals who recently was promoted to a high position in one of the suo­sidiaries of the U. S. Steel Corp. Louis Moore is the man. Lou started very humbly as a worker a* one of the furnaces of "Big Steel" at South Chicago. Now he is superintendent of blast fur­naces of the Columbia Steel Co., Frovo, Utah. At the age of 18, Lou saw combat service in France with the 33rd Division. 
"Bill Nolan operates W. G. Nolan & Co., chem­ists, located at 34 Front street, Philadelphia. 
"Among those of 1922 who attended Commence­ment this year was Judge Anthony Bray, Probate Court, Bellefontaine, Ohio. 
Aaron H. Huguenard, South Bend, is the new democratic county chairman of St. Joseph county. He was unanimously elected to succeed M. Edward Doran, '20, when the latter refused to be drafted by the democratic county central committee for a third term at its Uennial convention. 
Hcartlcy W. "Hunk" Anderson, one of the late Knutc Rockne's "watch-charm" guards at Notre Dame, has signed a one-year contract as line coach of the Chicago Bears, of the National pro football league. Hunk has heen coachins almost continually since his graduation, having served at Notre Dame, North Carolina State, St. t<ouis University, Cincinnati. Michigan, and at Detroit, where he spent the 1939 season as line coach of the professional Lions. 
The nomination by President Roosevelt of Bci^ nard J. McCaffery. South Bend, for reappointment as South Bend postmaster was confirmed by the Senate in Washington. 
109 9 P*"' ^ Caatner, 37 South Ara.^ K«w l7X d ranim, Cnuiecticvt. 
CO.MMEN*CE.^lBNT BEGISTIL\NTS 

E:. Bradley Ballej*, Philadelphia; Louis V-Bruggncr, South Bend; Joseph Casasanta. No­tre Dame: Rev. Frank Cavanaugh. C.S.C.. Notre Dame; Rev. John Cavannugh. C.S.C, Notre Dame; John D. Culhane. Chicago: A. G. Desch. 
Elmhurst, III.; Dr. P. C. Doran. Akron; Wl— Ham J. Furey, South Bend; John W'. Gleason, Cleveland; Joseph P. Henneberrj-, Ilomewood. IIU; Ed Herbert, Detroit, Mich.; Eugene llines, Chicago; Bruce Holmbcrg-. River Forest, III.; Daniel D. Lynch. Hammond. Ind.; John M. Montague, Chicago; Richard J. Nasli. Chicago; John C. Norton, Chicago; Rev. John Redding-ton. aS.C, Notre Dame; Loo P. Rieder. South Bend; John M. Rohrbach, Crown Point, Ind.; "W. Edward Shea. Dayton. Ohio: W. I* Voss, Han-cy, III.; George Wack, South Bend; Rev. Leo R, Ward, Notre Dame. 
Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta has extended his musical endeavors to the point of assuming lead­ership of a newly organized band of musicians to be known as the South Bend Symphony band. Joe sai's that the personnel vrill be limited to 60 musicians of high school and college age and any other interested persons. 
Joe Dc Franco, MO, informs us that Tom H. Ovin^ton, of the class of '23. is chief clerk of the strip steel department of the AVeirton Steel com­pany of Weirton, W. Va. 
Arcli Ward* of the "Chicago Tribune," recalls in his column: "John T. Dcmpsey, new chairman of the Cook County republican committee, w*as a cheerleader at Notre Dame in Knute Rocknc's early days as head coach. Incidentally, this de­partment cannot recall when the Irish had a better one, either.** 
 F. Hayes, Wm. J. Pedrick and 
1924 J. Co., International Bids-* Rockefeller Center* New York City. 
CO.AIMENCKMKNT ItKOISTICANTS 
Thomas W. Barber. Eriy. P;i,; Rev. Ilenrv 
J. Bolger, C.S.C., Notre Dame; William Con­nors, Chicago; Thom:is E. Cooke, Chicago; Thomas C. Donovan. Chicago; Leo Heringer. Chicago; Rev. Thomas Kelly, C.S.C, Notre Dame; Eugene A. ilayl, Dayton. Olilo; Rev. John McCarthy, Eric Pa.; Fr;ink McGinnis, De­troit; Jame.s Sleelian. South Bend; Rev. Philip Jloorc. C.S.C., Notre Dame; Clifford Noonan, Chicago; Gene Oberst. Cleveland; Robert B. Riordan. Noire Dame; Bud Stillman. Detroit; Edward S. Sullivan. Fort Wayne. Ind. 
109 C -^olin P- Hnrley, 2085 Brookdale Road, 
I TA 3 Toledo. Ohio. 
COM3IENCEMENT REGISTILVNTS 
Brother Agatho. C.S.C, Notre Dame; Rich­ard App. Fort Wayne. Ind.; James E. .Arm­strong, Notre Dame; Russ Arndt. Mishawaka, Ind.; E. J. Baker. Kalamazoo, Mich.; Tliomas 
J. Barry, Notre Dame; John A- Hartley, New York City; C. L. Bautngiirtner, South Bend; 

•
 William R. Bell, Rochester, N. T.; George A. BIschoff. Indianapolis; Leo J. Boeltlnger, Hamilton, Ohio; ilaurice Boland, Fort "Wayne, Ind.: W. H. Braunsdorf, South Bt-nd; F. Clar­ence Bunce, Laportc. Ind.; Dr. F. J. Burke, St. Louis. Mo.; Joseph P. Burke, Rockaway, L. I., 

N.
 y.; Charles E. Case, West Chicago, 111.; Herman G. Centlivre, Fort Wayne. Ind.; Wil­liam J. Cemey. South Bend; Norbert "Duke** Clancy, Indianapolis: Charle.s C. Collins, Chi­cago: Gilbert J. Coty, Notre Dame; Ray Sun­ningham. Detroit: Walter J. Cyr. Stamford. Conn.; Ray DeCoursey. Decatur, 111.; Robert Dixon. Dixon. 111.; Paul Dooley, Toledo; Wil­liam Drcnnan, Chicago; John R. Droegc, South Bond; Peter P. Dupay, Basking Ridgp. N. J.; 



Virgil Fagan, Chicago; Bernio Finnegan. Chicago; Albert Foos. Nonvalk. Ohio; Robert 
K. Gordon. Fort Wayne, Ind.; Thomas L. Goss, Philadelphia: J. L. Grace. Kokomo. Ind.; Cla­rence Harding. South Bend; Paul A. Hartman. Pittsburgh; Leonard M. Hess, San Anlonlo. Texas; John W. Hillenbrand. Batcs\-ille, Ind.; Paul Hoeffler. Toledo; Vincent Hogan. Nexv York City; Frank Ilowland, Memphis; R. B. Howland, EI Dorado, T*ixas; .lohn I*. Hurley, Jr.. Toledo; W. C. Hurley, Saginaw, Jlich.; Willard Jones. Dixon, HI.; C. J. K:ii.«er, De­troit; John J. Kane. Jr., Youngstown. Ohio; Bernard G. Kosting. ToU-do; George Koch. South Bend; George C. I^aughlin, Chicigo; El­mer F. I>aydon, Notre Dame; Bernard Liver-good. Chicago; George Ludwig. Grand Rapids, Mich-; Ed T. Lyons. Lansing. Mich.; Lester Mark. South Bend; Rev. Thomas T. ilcAvoy, 

C.S.C. Notro Dame; James F. McNichoIas, Chicago; William E. ilcrriman, Rochester, N. Y.; Donald ililler. Cleveland; Seb. J. Miller. In­dianapolis; Dr. David Murphy, Dixon, 111.; Frank ilurray, Toledo; Edward F. O'Toolc, Chicago; P. M. Pirchio, South Bend; Ed A. Polhaus, Detroit; Leo J. Powers, Chicago; Paul A- Rahe, Indianapolis; Paul C. Roniweber, Bates-ville. Ind.; J. W. Scallan, Chicago; Gil Schaef­fer, Detroit; William F. Sheehan, South Bend; 
George Sheehe, Corning, N. T.; Albert A. Sommer, Cleveland; Howard J. Spencer, Chica­go; Carl B. Sprenger. Detroit; Frank Steel. Akron, Ohio; Harry Stuhldreher. Madison, Wis.; Harold Taylor, South Bend; Ray Tillman, To­ledo; J. J. Toolen, Indianapolis; John P. Tray-nor. New York City; Gilbert Uhl, South Bend; George Vergara, New York City; J. B. Walters, Hammond, Ind.; John H. A. Whitman, Notre Dame; R. M. Worth, Indianapolis; J. W. AVrape, Memphis; Henry Wurzer, Davenport, Iowa. 
The Editor speaks: 
"John Hurley sent in some information on the 
15th, but he was worn out from the swell iob he 
did in getting .i record crowd back (look at that 
list — almost 'tripled* the attendance of '24 last 
year. '26 please note.) So here is what John 
brought out of the clouds, coupled with what we 
saw here, and we'll lay a bet we miss something 
vital. 
"Lcn Hess gets the Hero Award. He came the farthest distance, from his ranching in the Alamo country, and he also brought Mrs. Hess with him, for her first visit, and Len*s first since 1925. Joe Mcngcr has been ill for some time and couldn't make the trip. Snakard is somewhere in the U. S. with an airplane company but wasn't a very good ad for his transportation facilities by his absence. Likewise, Mike Xccdham seemed to lack confidence in the automobiles which he was selling to Corpus Christi at last reports. But when they see Hess, it will probably he the last Reunion they*!! miss. 

"Tony Gonzalez and Mike Vclasco had to report from Manila by mail, but we hope to stir them up with the success of this Reunion so that they'll take the Clipper for the next one. 
"Father John P. (nee Ike) Lyndi, who had looked forward for several years to the exerting of a Christian influence on sundry of his class­mates who were back, was called away by a death in his family. As a result, such things as the unbalanced ping-pong match between Traynor and Si^iaefcr were rampant. 
"George Ludwig was down from Grand Rapids with a sprained ankle to remind the brethren that at 15 years out you can't slide into a loose first sack in the old Badin-Corby style. 
"Rev. Leo Gorman, '26, and Rev. Thomas Kelly, *24, rector-host of Lyons, struck a '25 average to stage the Class Mass in Lyons Chape! on Sunday morning, in Father Lynch's absence. 
"Karl ConncU wouldn't entrust the farm secur­ity of the Croolcston. Minn., area to anyone else and missed. Likewise Jack Elliott couldn't close up the Stoddard Hotel in LaCrosse. Harry Mc-Guirc, who has gone into play producing in New York, was absent from the '25 cast. And e\*en a small-hour solicitation of Butch Haccker by long distance failed to shake him loose from Pittsburgh. 
"Pete Dupay, the Basking Ridge bachelor, was on deck, little changed, but encountering consider­able change in the names and telephone numbers in South Bend as of 1921-25. 
"Layden, Stuhldreher and Miller were in the play, but Jim Crowley missed the signals. 
"Chuck Collins was a welcome part of the pic­ture, although Bill Cemey made a poor native guide and Collins wound up showing Cemey around. 
"This could go on. and on, except for the space limitation of this particular issue. 
'*It goes to show, however, what can be done with a live Class Column. Hurley tried to resign, but was never given a chance. With all the swell attendance, only one-fourth of the Class was back, and there's work for the next five years in check­ing up on the absent brethren. It'll probably sound like the parable of the wedding guests, but beginning with October, let's have the alibis. And the next Reunion, let's have attendance instead. 
"Hurley wants an extra, special Centennial Re­union. Which is a break that ought to help assuage the grief of those who aFe hearing the details of what they missed from those who didn't miss. So when we decide when that Centennial Commencement will be. have your minds made up." 
This bit of belated news from our underground channels reaches us somewhat behind the times. Anyway, the source of information reveals that Jnlins J. Danch. Gary, Ind., ran, for the otlice of state representative on the democratic slate in the May 7 primaries. Since "the wheel of the wagon is broken," the stagecoach hasn't hit town yet with the news of either \-ictory or defeat. 
Harrj' McGuirc has announced his association with a fellow play producer. AVith address at 50 Vanderbilt avenue. New York City, the sign over Harry's door quotes Shakespeare: "The play's the thing." 
J, A. Benning, 4235 Sullivan Ave., St. Bernard. Ohio, has set his brother, Richard, on the right path, and the younger Benning will enter Notre Dame's College of Engineering in September, re­siding in Carroll Hall. 
m 09 ^ James A. Ronan, 127 Dearborn St^ I 7Z O Chicago, Illinois. 
COMMENCK.^IEXT KEGISTILVNTS 

Shelley B.innon, LouisT-'illo; William R. Barr. Chalmers. Ind.; Lawrence Dolan, Brooklyn, 
N. Y.; William R. Dooley, Notre Dame; Nor­bert Engels, Notre Dame; Rev. Leo Gorman. C.S.C., Notre Dame; V. L. Goulct. Chicago; 
J. Arthur Haley. Notre'Dame; Dr. Jerrj- H.^yes, East Orange, N. J.; Dan Kelly, South Bend; Malcolm Knaus. Detroit; Clarence LaFollctte, Chicago; E. L. Mahoney, Indianapolis; G. J. JIcGInley. Ogallaln, Nebr.; Gerald W. Morsches, Fort Wayne. Ind.; Lew Murphy, South Bend; George P. O'Day, Chicago; James A. Ronan, Chicago: John Tuohy, Oak Park, III.; Joseph AValsh. Notre Dame. 
From Jim Ronan: "Mr. Dooley: 
"For months now, Dooley, we've been trying to shame 'em; but they just have no shame at all. In each issue of the 'Alumnus' this fellow John Hurley has column after column of 1925 notes; and here is our 1926 column just as bare as , well, it's bare, that's all. Wouldn't you think that some of our classmates would be shamed into writing a paragraph or two? But no! I guess we can't even shame 'em into it. 
"An impromptu gathering in Lyons Hall on the eve of Commencement brought out some interest­ing items. After the alumni banquet some of the members of the class of 1926 gathered to talk things over. Included in this group, from time to time, far into the night, were Bill Dooley, John Tuohy, Gerry McGinlcy, George 'Dutch' O'Day, Bud Barr, Dr. Gerald Weldon Hayes, and the writer. 
"Art Haley was somewhere around, busy as usual. We didn't have the opportunity of talk­ing with him; but from a distance it looked as though his recent trip to Hollywood (where he assisted in the filming of the new Rockne picture) was a success. Someone reported that Mai Knaus was on the campus; but a search for him on Sun­day morning failed to uncover that worthy. Father Leo Gorman, C.S.C., was the celebrant of the reunion Mass for the members of the class of 1925. He has taken on a Httle weight (who am I to criticize?) but says he's fine and happy in his duties as rector of St. Edward's Hall and head of the Department of Classic Languages. Lew Murphy distinguished himself as one of the speakers at the banquet. Lew, you know, is na­tional president of the Disabled War Veterans. 
"Gerry McGinley now holds the exalted position 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
of mayor in the thriving metropolis of Osallala, Nebr- He admits doing a mighty fine job of con­ducting the affairs of that city. Gerry occasion­ally sees Cy Simon, who is a successful legal practitioner in North Platte, Nebr. He also re­ports that Ed Gebben has gained wide prominence throughout the West as chief of the Federal Bureau of Investigation office in Denver. 
"Dutch O'Day has been transferred back to Chicago from Cleveland. He is assistant sales manager of James B. Clow and Sons (cast iron pipe and plumbing supples, in case you need any) and is living in River Forest, a suburb. John Tuohy is still selling real estate and insurance in the neighboring village of Oak Park. Bud Barr retains that quality of eternal youth. I think he could run that 100-yard dash mighty close to 10 seconds any morning, 
"Gcrr>- Hayes hasn't been dieting these many years: but the double chins don't seem to inter­fere with that famous smile that he brought. along with bis wife, back to this Commencement. Ibe good Doctor is practicing medicine in East Orange, N. J., and is sitecializing in obstetrics. He furnished news of many of the hoys in 'Jer­sey.* Bcrnic Winuertcr, according to our inform­ant, is in e:cccllent health, and is managing the Newark ofTice of the G.M.A.C. Bill Dcgnan is doing well as a chemical engineer. Tom FarrcU is now an oil tycoon, or something, aTid Ban O'Neill is an executive of the Public Ser\-ice Com­pany of New Jersey. Ed Duggan is a lawyer in Newark, and Jim Silver is following the same profession in Asbury Park. Paul Harrington is an oil man, too. in Fairwood. and Ben Bourne is with IngersoII-Rand in PhilHpsburg. Pretty com­plete report from New Jersey, don't you think? 
"Other sources of information reveals that Paul Fleming, the ace prosecuting attorney of Youngs­town. Ohio, has recently recovered from a serious operation. Several blood transfusions were neces­sary : but Paul finally 'beat the rap,' 
"Walter Trohan is one of the 'Chicago Tribune's' top-flight WashiuKton correspondents. Maybe you have read some of his .^ij-ndicated articles on the European conflict and some of his stories on activ­ities in Washington, D. C. Walter accompanied Sumner Wells, assistant secretary of state, on his recent visit to the European capitals. 
"The 19-10 Commencement is history. We had an enjoyable week-end, and hope to be back in 19-11. Remember that 1941 is the 'Fifteenth Anni­versary Reunion' of the class of 1926, We've wit­nessed what a fifteenth anniversary can really be in this year's attendance of the men of 1920*. We can beat it. Let's go!" 
Donley in for Ronan: 
"Amen. amen. Brother Ronan! So be it! 
"Early next fall you can put the Hurley tech­nique to work on some of our long-lost brethren of '26. and add a few new promotion touches just out of the laboratory and the proving ground. With 192G a larger class than '25, we ought to have a proportionately larger attendance, to say the least. The important thing at the moment is that the lads start now to think ahead to May 30 and May 31 and June 1, 1941. With Memorial Day falling on Friday of the Commencement week­end, it shouldn't be too tough for lots of boys to get away from the old desks for a few days. 
"That Jersey '26 gang would make a fair-stzed reunion all by itself. Fallon. Gelson, Rcid, Dwyer et. al can round up the New York crowd, and mayte, with the Jerseyites, come out in a special car on the New York Central Pacemaker, such as the New York club successfully sponsored this year. Jack Gallagher and Denis O'Neill in Cleve­land, Alal Knaus in Detroit, John Ryan in Pitts­burgh, El Mahonoy, Lew Cody, Corbin Patrick and Charlie Mason in Indianapolis, to name just a few that occur to me at the moment, are in large centers of Notre Dame men and activity, and can talk up the reunion effectively. And, of course. Tuohy, O'Pay, Sweeney, Hartnett ye Ronan and innumerable others are around Chi­cago, within two hours of the campus. 
"Let's start the parade now. We ought to have a 100 back." 
Ernie Landry, formerly of Chicago and now living at 463 Appleton street, Holyoke. Mass.. writes to inform us that he is now with the Metropolitan Life Insurance company in Holyoke. Ernie was married two years ago in February. Quoting from his letter, "sort of anxious to hear from any of the fellows again." Don't let him ' down. 
1927 
Joseph H. Boland. Athletic Office. 
Notre Dame, Indiana. 
C03IJIENCEJIKNT RECISTILVNTS 

John BrinKman, Chicago; William J. Coyne, South Bend; William H. Downey, (II.A.). No­tre Dame; Thomas B. Dunn. Morris, 111.; Do­nald Fitzgerald. Mundolein. 111.; John A. Hal-pin, Chicago; Richard Halpin. Chicago; Rob­ert Irmiger. Chicago; Herbert Jones, Notre Dame; Clayton G. L^roux, Cleveland; H. G. I.eStrange, Larchmont. X. Y.; Frank JIayer, St. Paul: Francis T. jrcCurrle. Chicago; Edw. 
J. McLaughlin. Chicago; Vincc srcXally. Phila­delphia; John McNcUis. Chicago; George Mead. Erie. Pa.; Frank Moran, South Bend; John F. Morschos, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Jack Ohnemus, South Bend; Frank Pendorgast, Chicago; Ken­neth Qualloy, South Bend; John Rogers, Chica­go; George J. Schill. Pittsburgh; Al Smith LaPorte, Ind.; Andrew Smithberger, (M. A.). Notre Dame; Ray Snyder, South Bend; J. R. Staples. South Bend; J. E. Sullivan, Cliicago; John J. Wallace, Calumet City. 111.; E. .T. WU­liolm, Xotre Dame. 
Bob O'Brien, ex. '27, is assistant superintendent of the 93" Cold Strip Mill and Galvanizing department of Jones & Laughlin Steel Corpora­tion, Pittsburgh. Bob makes his home at 301 Shadowland Ave.. Kennedy Forest, Mt. Lebanon, Pittsburgh, and is much interested in placement work, having aided much in the placement labors of Bill Dooley, '26. director of the Placement Bureau at Notre Dame, and John McMahon. chair­man of the Placement Committee of the Western Pennsylvania Club. 
lO^ Q Louis F. Buckley. 908 E. Cedar St.. I T& O South Bend, Indiana. 
CO.>I.^IENCEMI-::>'T KEGISTICVNTS 

Joseph AV. Boehning. Indianapolis; Edward Bourke. South Bend; Andrew J. Boyle. South Bend; John E. Brannon, Kenosha. Wis.; Louis F, Buckley, Notre Dame; Thomas F. Byrne. Cleveland; J. P. Canny. Cleveland: George Cou­ry. Chicago; John Frederick, Muskegon, Mich.; Robert F. Gniham. Washington. D. C; Henry llaslcy. Fort Wayne, Ind.; J. AV. Klrwan, An­tigo. Wis.; Michael R. Lawler. Chicago; Ed­ward P. McGauIey Worcester, Mass.; Edward P, McGuIre. Chicago; Edward P. McKeown. Chi­cago; Robert J. itohlman, Lafayette, Ind.; W, 
II. Murphy, Chicago; Edward, R. Qulnn, South Bend; Ronald E. Rich. Notre Dame; Ellas G. Thomas, Lorain, Ohio; Jlllton J. Wagner. Dear­born. Mich.; Willard Wagner. South Bend; Bev. Robert W. Woodward. C.S.C, Notre Dame, 
From Louie Buckley: 
"Thanks to Carl Pcttersch and George Conry, we were able to complete the year with an excep­tionally newsy column. George's report on grad­uation is so well done that there is nothing I can add. Carl gives us a fine account of a number of men whose names haven't appeared in this column for some time. 
"I have followed the usual procedure in asking our guest writers for suggestions for guest writers for the next issue. Carl has suggested Henry Davis of Sistersville, W. Va. George as. sured me that John Lcttzinger of Clearfield, Pa., would come through also. We haven't heard from either of these men in years, so we will be look­ing for copy from them by September 15 for the October issue. Please give them cooperation by 
dashing them a line right away, so we will be 
able to begin the 1940-41 year with lots of news." 
Writes Columnist Coory: "Enclosed you will find my efforts towards r ^ porting on the class of 1928. 
"Twelve years, plus mairiages, families, busi­ness positions and cares, have slowed down that ' old gang of ours to the point where there were fewer members of our class-.back this year than any year since graduation. But it was grand to see the ones that were present and to renew eld friendships over a glass of beer or through a heated discussion of world events. 
"Heading the roll call was our handsome presi­dent, John Frederick, who drove down from his home town of Muskegon, where he continues in the practice of law. Our friendly secretary. Prof. Louis Bnckley, w^as on hand as usual to extend a warm wlecome to all and to extol the merits of the New Deal. I'm turning out to be a different case for Lou to convert, but I don't know how much longer I can hold out under his continued heavy bombardment. Lou will teach at Catholic University this summer. 
"We missed our jovial vice-president. Howard Phalin. whose busy position as sales manager for a, big Chicago book publishing house must have kept him from being with us. No excuse next yc=r, Howard. 
"But Chicago continued its policy of sending a representative group: 
"Good looking Ray Lawler, Ed McGulre in the company of a very charming young lady. Genial Ed McKeown, who seems to have retained that prosperous waist line he acquired in 1939. My poker playing partner. Bill Murphy, who is a traveling representative for a beverage equipment concern. Bill, I trust I described your work cor­rectly; anyway, if your poker playing is any criterion of your ability to take money from others, then there is going to be lots of goods going from your concern in exchange for money from your customers. But when you and Willard Wagner take my money you don't give me any­thing in exchange. 
"Insurance man Wagner, Professors Ed Qainn and Andy Boyle together with Ed Boarke repre­sented South Bend. If any of our classmates are contemplating entering the beer business in any capacity outside of consumption, don't forget to consult Ed, who is assistant brewmaster of the Drewery Brewerj-, South Bend. 
"Bob Grant has again been nominated by the Republican party for U. S. congressman from the South Bend district. Good luck. Bob, we are proud of you. Ed McGauIey came from Worces­ter with his bride of one week. Happy sail­ing, Ed. and remember, Confucius say when wife say jump wall, husband pray wall low. Vince Walsh might give heed to above also as we understand Vince will take the vows in Beloit on the 22nd. Bill Kirwan, who was responsible for the good news about Vince,- was down from Antigo, Wis., where he has charge of Monigom­eo' Ward's store, and, according to his fellow townsman. District Attorney Tom McDoagall, Bill is doing a swell job. 
"From Cleveland came Tom Byrne who runs the telephone company there. Tom was elected second vice-president of the Alumni Association. Fine going, Tom. News comes from Cleveland that Bill O'Neill and Harold Rnppcrt have gone to the top of the ladder in the trucking business. Why don*t you two fellows ride one of those ­trucks down to Cbramenccment some year? We would be very glad to see you. Another Ohioan who doesn't come to reunions nearly often enough is my old roommate. Dakar Rnst. who continues with the Randall Fuel company at Cincinnati. Oskar has teen working hard to get coal listed on commodity exchange markets to be traded on a future option basis such as copper, hides, suffar, etc A swell idea and here's wishinc you luck, Oslcar. 
"Pat Canny, the Cleveland rcilrord attorney, as usual played a bang up game of golf, and it was only his modesty that prevented him from challenging Walter Hagen, who was the attr::c­tion of the links Saturday afternoon. We were alt happy to see Al -Thomas, who has been spend­ing the last several months recuperating from a serious sickness. Our best wishes for a complete recovery, AI. Fort Wayne again sent its old reliable attorney and prominent K. C. official, Henry Haslcy. Jim Bochnlng was another south­ern Indiana representative. 
_ "From the nation's capital came Bob Graham, where he is connected with the Securities Ex­change Commission. Say, Bob, how about enact­ing some law that will throw the stock market in. reverse or something. If the darn thing doesn't stop going down we brokers will be out of a job —^thcn the New Deal will have just so many more people they will have to put on the payroll. 
"Our class' contribution to Notre Dame's coach­ing staff, Joe Bcnda, was happily greeLing old friends. How about some tickets on the 50-yard line, Joe? Frank Donovan is now the Owner of a wholesale druis company in Chicago. Last April ^^nce Ducey bucked the regular Democratic ma­chine in his district for U. S. congressman and made a good showing. Better luck next time, Vince, and we admire you for your courage. 
"I have run out of news, paper and ink — so pood-bye uniil next year." 
From Carl Pettersdi: 
"Practically all of my associations since coming to Detroit have been in the line of business. The time left after I have gathered in my daily bread I have spent haunting the local schooling places in pursuit of teacher training and a teaching career. The career is still in the offing, but in the meantime I am sustained in health and com­fort by my job in the sales department of the Detroit Edison Company. As Joe Griffin men­tioned, Vince Stace is also in the service of that utility and doing very well indeed. Vince heads a division in the purchasing department. 
"Dr. Guy Loranger is our family physician and is rapidly making a place for himself in Detroit medical circles. He has built up a large practice and is on the staff of St. Mary's Hospital here. Guy has two lively daughters and a brand new boy. Al our last non-professional meeting. Guy came up with some varied information which I herewith relay to you. 

"Mike McGcoghcgan has been in and out of Detroit several times lately and stayed put long enough on one occasion to telephone Guy that all is well with him and that he would be dropping out for a visiU The visit did not materialize so there is no real news to offer about Mike. Per­haps we Can get to him the next time he calls. More Loranger data is to the effect that Arthur Stcnius is in charge of the speech department in one of Detroit's larger high schools. As 1 recall. Art was one of the anchor men on the debating squad while at Notre Dame. A coup!e of issues back you asked for Art's address. In case you have not already received it I think you can reach him at 1177 Edison Avenue, Detroit, Chuck Kocnig is still in Detroit and reported getting along fine. News of Dr. William McFarland is on the indefi­nite side, but here it is. After leaving Notre Dame Bill went on in medicine and finished with an intemeship at St, Mary's Hospital, Detroit. A little later he \vent to Budapest to carry on post­graduate work. From there on all is dark, Per­
hcps Bill, himself, if he reads this, or someone else can enlighten us further. 
"Lou Norman also came to my assistance with a couple of welcome items. Lou is working for the General Motors Acceptance Corporation with offices in the General Motors Building, Detroit. He recently built a house for himself in one of the city's new sections. After dictating a day's work to a batterj- of stenographers The Norman retires to his garden where he understudies the man with the hoe. 

"From Lou I learned that AURIC Grams, has a feed and grain business prospering in La Crosse, Wis. To reciperate after hours. Augie devotes time to his hobby. His hobby is a farm of several hundred acres. Augie got used to doing things on the grand scale when he managed the football team ut Notre Dame and it is a habit with him now. \Vho will ever forget the ease with which he shoehorned a crowd of 120.000 fans in and out of Soldiers' Field for the 1927 Southern Califor­nia game? Neil Amiot is proprietor of a large and efficient drj- cleaning plant in Wyandotte. Mich., just dow n-river from Detroit. Neil and his wife have two youngsters, a boy and a girl. The Amiots and the Normans have an occasional get-together. 
"Vin Duccy gets over this way now and then, Vin is a stock analyst with hendtiuarters in La-Salle Street, Chicago, In his spare lime, he is carrying on postgraduate work at Northwestern University. About now he is {lacking his bag for his customary hcgira into northern Michigan. Vin takes his hay-fever there every summer. 
"This by no means drains the possibilities for news in and around this area, Lou. but it is all I have at the present writing. Over in the west-em part of the state Leo Walsh could very likely tell of the whereabouts and activities of quite a number of '2Sers who have been absent from the column for some time now, Leo, as you probably know, has a. successful law practice and is active in civic affairs as well as being prominent in Knights of Columbus circles. He was grand knight of the Grand Rapids Council a year or so ago. 
"And for nev.-s from a different sector you might call on Henr>' Davis of the Sistersville, 
W. Va., Davises. 
"May I add. Lou, that I think you are doing a swell job as class secretary. 
Connie Ochoa proudly 'sends words of tKe Golden Wedding anniversary of his parents, who celebrated 50 years of married happiness in ApriL They reside in Guadalajara, Mexico. 
A postcard supplies us with the new address of Robert \lncent Knox, now living at 838 S. Fourth St.. Springfield, HI. Bob is an architect in the state architect's office in the Division of Archi­tecture, Armory Building. 
1929 Joieph P. McNamarft, Attomcr Gcn­
erml Office* IndianaiKiIis, Indtuim. 
COMMKXCEMKNT KEGISTIMNTS 

Dr. F. J. Armbruster, Chicago; Paul C. Bar­tholomew. South Bend; Stephen Bocskey. No­tre Dame: Francis J. Gushing, Hollis, N. Y.; John Gushmiin, South Bend; Frank Duan. GUl­cago; John Dorgan. Chicago; Joseph E. Keefe, Winterliaven, Fla.; Edw. J. I*eahy, Chicago; John J. Lyons. Chicago; J. H. B. McCsirthy, South Bend; Robert McKenna, Indianapolis; Joseph P, McNamara, Indianapolis; Louis F, Niezer, Port Wayne, Ind,; Donald Plunkett, Notre Dame; Joseph Uudd, Ste. Slarle, III.; I* 
F. Stauder, South Bend. 
From Joe McNamara: 
"And Now For the Intemationml Ronnd-np: . 
"In India: 

"To Bengal, India, came Rev. John J. Harring­ton, C.S.C., who landed in Dacca on Armistice Day, 1933, after four years' study of theology. He traveled 12,000 miles on several oceans in 27 days, a record to "be anti-climaxed by a 25-mile trip in 22 hours by country boat. He has been in the Little Flower Seminary ever since. He was appointed superior on St, Patrick's Day, 1936, by the Rt- Rev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C., and Rev. Michael Mangan, C.S.C. He says: 'Yes, Joe, the Irish march on in Bengal. My ambition is to make Bandhura Bengal's Notre Dame. Have a small boarding school; I'd like you — or any of the '29ers — to drop in and see it when you circle the globe." 
In Peru: 
"Is the latest address of one of '29*s world­cttizcns, Francis Joseph Havclick, Jr. Francis is married and his-residence address is Buenos Aires. Argentine — business address: c-o Panagra, Lima, Peru. He has the very interesting position of captain of the Pan-American Grace Airways, Inc. Since leaving school, the pride of Billings, Mont., has been in the following: U. S, Air Corps Pri­mary Flying School, March Field, Calif,, (Gradu­ated 1930) and Air Corps Advanced Flying School, Kelly Field, San Antonio, Tex. Since leaving Notre Dame, he has held the position of lieutenant in the U. S, Air Corps (2 ye::rs); captain. China National Aviation Corporation (3% years) ; and now his present position. 
"To Continue the National Round-up: 

"Washington, D. C , is represented'by Bernard Lo&hbough, who is presently taking graduate work in Housing Education, the American University, Washington. He now holds the position of archi­tect with the Federal Work Agency, Public Build­ings Administration, Washington, This former Villager is married — no family. In addition to working and taking special work, he still finds time to act as vice-president of the local Notre Dame Club. 
"In Minnesota: 

"Dante W, Paciotti is the owner of the Paciotti Company, a lumber and coal company in Eveleth. Minn. He is also treasurer of the Business and I'rofessional Men's Club in Eveleth. Dante lives at S07 Adams Ave., telephone 474, and his business office is located on Grant Ave., Eveleth. He is married and has two fine children. In Minne­apolis, Sears. Roebuck and Company is repre­sented by Louis J. Regan, who holds the position of personnel manager of the Mail Order Division, After graduating, he took some special work at the University of Minnesota Extension Division. He is married, and has two children. I^oule lives at 4016 Garfield Ave., South. Edward J. Fahey is a seo'ice engineer in the sales department of the Northwestern Bell Telephone Company in St. Paul, Minn. After graduating, ho took some additional work at the University of Minnesota. He lives at l.=i2S Goodrich Ave. 
"Sylvester N. Wagner holds the position of fore­

, man with the Minnesota Highway Department, Maintenance Department, in West Duluth. He is living at 5514 Columbia St., West Duluth. Not married. 
"In Nebraska: 

"The position of assistant cashier. Farmers State Bank, Aurora. Nebr., is being capably taken care of by George C Wanck. In addition to this, he finds time to be the secretary of the local Bankers Association. George is married and has two fine boys. His residence address is 1409 12th St. Reynolds C. Seitz is the assistant professor of law, Creighton University Law School, Omaha. Nebr, After graduating, the former varsity swimmer took the following special work: Master of Arts, Northwestern University, Evanslon, III.; Bachelor of Laws, Creighton University, and was the holder of a fellowship. Graduate School, North­western U. At the present time, he is vice-presi­dent of the State of Nebraska field chapter of 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Phi Delta Kappa Fraternity, national honomry fraternity in the field of education. He was for­merly an officer in Upsilon (Northwestern U. Campus Chapter), a chapter of the same frater­nity. Reynolds has been married since AuKUst, 1939. He lives at 76 North 57th Ave., Omaha. 
"In Kansas: "Rev. Florian Demmcr, 0-S.B., is dean of men at St. Benedict's CoIIejie. Atchison, Kans.. and teacher of history. He lives at the college in Atchison. Joseph G. O'Brj-an is in the cattle business for himself at Hepler, Kans. This former 'Scholastic* staff member also finds time to be active in the affairs of the Hetler Farm Bureau, is a Democratic committeeman, and is, a director in the Cattle Loan Agency. Joe is married and has one child. 
"In Texas: 
"Rev. James P. Gibbons, C.S.C, is the head of the Hislory Department of St. Edward's Univer­sity, Austin. Texas. Father Jim teaches five dif­ferent courses in history, in addition to which he is also the rector of the hall. After Rraduatinp, he received credits for an M.A. from Catholic U., pnd is doing research work for dissertation under Dr. Carlos Castaneda, who is the author of 'Our Catholic Heritage in Texas.' Father Jim is chap­lain of St. Edward's K. of C, Council. Rev. Jnmcs 
E. Norton, C.S.C, is also at St. Edward's Univer­sity, where he is professor of social science. After graduating, he received credits in 1934 for an 
M.A. at the Catholic University. 
"Fred J. Faust is attorney-at-Iaw and United States commissioner for the Eastern District of Texas, in Beaumont. His residence address is 2535 Calder Ave., Beaumont. The formsr Villager is married and has two children. After graduat­ing from Notre Dame (Ph-B.). be obtained his LL-B. at the East Texas College of Law. 
"In North Dakota: 
"Yes. in North Dakota, it's W. L. Ncff. 'W.L.' is the principal of the junior and senior high schools in Mandan. After graduating, he received his B.A. and M.A. degrees — in fact everything oxtept dissertation completed for doctorate at Stanford University. He is (1) vice-president of the State Principals' Association: (2) director of the local Rotar>* Club; (3) a past officer in the local K. of C.; and (4) chairman of the board of reviews for local Boy Scouts. He is living at 409 Second Ave., Mandan. N. Dak­
"In North Carolina: 
"In North Carolina, the Class is represented by Rev. Grcgoo* K. Eichcniaub, O.S.B.. cousin of Ray Eichenlaub, '15, president of the Alumni As­sociation. Since 1937. he has been director of Vocational Guidance at Belmont Abbey College, Belmont. Before becoming Director of V.G. at B.A., Father Gregory was instructor and chaplain at Benedictine Military School at Richmond. Va., Civilian Chaplain. U.S. Army Post, Fort Eustis. Va.. 1929-1931: Civilian Chaplain, U.S. DepL of Justice. Priam Camp, Fort Eustis. Va., 1931­1934. Civilian Chaplain. U.S. Transit Camp. Fort Eustis, 1934-193G, Chaplain of Catholic Club, Uni­versity of William and Mary, Williamsburff, Va., 1929-1937. He was also State Chaplain twice of the K. of C. of Virginia. Incidentally, Belmont Abbey College is the only Catholic college for men between Washington. D. C, and Mobile, Ala. Tlie Benedictines glory in the work of the Holy Cross Fathers at Notre Dame, and are doing a truly great work in this area. The college is just 10 miles west of Charlotte, N. C. and any '29er who passes up a chance to visit it — and. Father Gregory — is making a real mistiike." 
Jutii-s J. Wichser, United States marshall. has appointed Robert G. Ncwbold. Rushville. Ind- to the post of office deputy. Bob served as secre­tary to Congressman Finly H. Gray from 1933 to 1938 and was employed more recently in the De­partment of Justice in Washington. 
I
OtlA Robert Hellmnff, Humboldt Bnildinff. T^U St. L.ouis, Miuoari. 
CO.^IJIENCE.MKNT KEGISTIL\NTS 

.\iKlrew Amiin, Dayton. Ohio; Frank X. Amu­to. Murphysboro, III.; Paul App, Fort Wayne, Ind.: Edward Arthur, New York City: Ed. A. Hartley, Milwaukee; M. J. Bishko. CHfton, N. J.; Ed Blatt, Cleveland; Richard Bloom. Onei­da. New York; A. L.. Bondl, Indianapolis; Karl Brennuii. New Britain. Conn.; Bernard Broe­ker. Bethlehem. Pa.; JIarrj- A. Busscher. Mel­rose Park, III.: Joseph Butler. Chicago; Daniel 
F. Cannon. Columbus. Ohio; John Cannon. Co­lumbus. Ohio; John Conlin, Ann Arbor, ^lich.; Bernard Conroy. New Kensington, Pa.; Frank Corbett. Fort Wayne. Ind.; Rev. Wm. Craddlck. C.S.C.. Notre Dame; John F. Crooks. Jr., Chi­cago; Jo.seph Dillon. Huntington, Ind.; Richard Donoghue, New York City; James P. Driscoll, Chicago; Harold Duke, Philadelphia; "William 
A. Uunlevy, Youngstown. Ohio; Robert F. Eg­geman. Fort Wayne. Ind.; Larry F. Knright, St. Joseph. Mo.: Arthur Erra, I*os Angeles; 
Paul Farmer. South Bend: Ernest Fesano, Long Branch. N. J.; William Fink. Huntington, Ind.: J. F. Finnegan, Huntington. Ind.; Law­rence Filzsimons, LaPorte. Ind.; T. J. Folks. Jr., I'aturson, N. J.; Arthur A. Fortier. Detroit; Thomas Frost, Cedar Rapids, Iowa; Arthur J. Gallagher. Cievoland; Hugh Gallagher, Pitts­burgh; John W. Gibbons, Detroit; P. J- Goggin. Areola, HI.: John Golden. Chicago; ^lortun Goodman. Chicago; Rev. Richard J. Grimm, CSC. Notre Dame; Ed. Halloran, Champaien. HI.; William H. Hamlll, South Bend; John T. Harrington. Peru. Ind,; Louis Hiisley, South Bend: Jobn F. Healy. Chicago; Paul Held­kamp. Chicago; Robert Hellrung. St. Louis; 
J. W. Hennessey. South Bend: H. J. Higgins. Chicago; Jerry Holland, Chicago; Cyril Hughe.**, Chicago; Harold Jennings. South Bend; Thomas Keogan, Rockford, III.; Leo Kennelly. Youngs­town, Ohio; Gene Kllloren. St. Louis; Arthur Kirk. Rushville. Ind.; Gilbert Klnvan. Atlanta. Oa.: ilar.shall Kizer. Plymouth. Ind.; Paul Kleiser. Indianapolis; AVulter Lan^ford, Notre Dame: C. P. Lennon, Jollet, III.; Ray Loyce, Crown Point, Ind.; John il. Mahoney, Chicago: 
J. A. Malloy, Charleston, W. Va.; Jobn Plan­ning. Mt. Clemens. Mich.: Vic Martzel. Shreve­port. La.: Leo R. ilcAloon. Providence. R. I.: James McBride. Columbus. Ohio; M. Joseph JlcCalie. DearI»om. Mich.; Vincent MeCue, Shrewsbury, N. J.; P. A. McCusker. Notre Dame: James E. McDermott. Gr.in(l Rapids. .Mich.: James McDonald. Chicago; R. L. Me­tDonald. Oakland, Calif.; Thomas J. McDbugal, V.ntlgo. Wis. 
John McGee. Buffalo, N. Y.; T. V. Mclntyre, John McGee. Buffalo, N. Y.; T. V. Mclntyre. Zanesville, Ohio; John McMurray, Chicago; F. 
M. Messick, South Bend; Duane M. Miller. Oil City, Pa-: J. Vincent Mooney, Chicago; John T. ^loran. Oak Park, 111.; Thomas G.. Murphy, Franklin. Pa.; Ed Nebel, Pittsburgh; Jack Now­erj-, Houston. Texas; Francis O'Brien, New York City; James O'Keefe, Verona, N. J. Geo. O'Malley. Jr., Dfxon. 111.; Walter R. O'Malley. Aurora. HI.; WHUam O'Malley. Chicago; Frank­lin O'Marah. Buffalo. N. Y.; Tiemey O'Bourke, New York City; Fred Parent. South Bend; Wal­ter Parent, Michigan City, Ind.; Jerome Parker, San Francisco; Arthur Petersen, Evanston. HI.; 
D. T. Plunkett. Notre Damc: H, J. porter, ^tilwaukee; Tom Purcell, Chicago; Joseph Raf­ter. Harrisburg, Pa.; J. M. Rngen, Jr.. Chicago; 
W. J. Reaume, Detroit; Ed Redmond. Milwau­kee; Jerry Reidy, Cleveland; James Arthur Reynlers. Notre Dame; James Uigney, Chicago; John Rocap. Indianapolis; Charles E. Rohr. Cleveland; Joseph Ryan, Columbus, Ohio; Ted Ryan. Hutchinson. Kans.; Don Schettig. Ebens­burg. Pa.: Fred V. Schoppman. Fort Wayne, Ind.; Al Shipacasse. Cle\-eland; Ed Slick, Mar­ion. Ind.; R. V. Sloan, Clarion, Ind.; Charles Small wood. Chicago; H. Louis Stettler, Cleve­land; Donald Sullivan, Northampton, Mass.; J:imes Sullivan. Royal Oak. Mich.; Richard Sullivan. South Bend; Tim Toomey, New Y'ork City; Rev. James D. Trahey. CS.C. Notre Dame: Malcolm E. Trombley. ilt. Clemens. Mich.; H. R. Truitt, Chicago; John D. Voss. Elk Horn. Wis.; Dick Walter. Oak Park. 111.; George Weber, Olney, 111.; Robert F. Weschler, Erie, Pa.; George Winkler. Par Rockaway. L.I., N, Y^.; John Yelland. Minneapolis; Dr. Bob Zeis, Mt. Victory. Ohio. 
From Bob Hellrung: 
"The 10-Year Reunion was a complete success. with a few less than 200 taking part. When it was all over, everyone w-as glad he had come, and we heard no complaints whatsoever during the entire week-end. 
"Before going any farther, let's give credit where credit is due. Loa Hasley* chairman of the Reunion Committee, commandeered Walt Langford, Dick Sullivan, the two Parent toys, Fred and Walter, and Art Reyniers, and they all certainly did themselves proud. Everything functioned so smoothly that one hardly realized nnytbing was being eneineered. Hats off to the committee for managing such a spontaneous party. 
"The Thirties traveled from far and near to attend the celebration. Art Erra, formerly of Akron, Ohio, and now of San Francisco, held the record for traveling the longest distance until Jerry Parker, now of the American Air^vays, Inc. flew in from New York after being on the West Coast a few days before. 
"A few group pictures are being sent to Bill Dooley with the hope that they will be squeezed into this article, if at all possible, in order to give you an idea of what the boys look like after ten years. Very few changes were noticeable, e^-cept in the lack of hair and the slight develoi>­ment amidships. Perhaps the greatest increase in weight was apparent in Ed Slick, and Joe Mc-. Cabe. Both of these fellows must tip the scale at better than 200 today, which is a 40 p2r cent increase over yesterday. 
Groups of returning Thirties are shown in front of Morrisse y Hall, the 10-year Reunion kerndquarters for the -week-encL 
"Chuck Lcnnon received unanimous recognition as having lost the most hair since the campus days; his golden dome was really sunkissed after a few hours in the sun. Another outstanding change was presented by Jim McDcrmott, of Grand Hapids, Mich., whose dark wa^-y hair has turned to a distinguished gray. 
**Friday night's informal celebration in Morris­sey was reflected in the Softball game ;)Iayed the next morning with the Class of *35. Buckling knees showed that old age is creeping on most of the boys. Royal Higgins came out of the fracas with a twisted ankle, and he wasn't the only one who suffered a casualty during the event. Paul Hcidkamp. Chuck Smallwood, Ed Xebcl, Jcrrj-Holland, Bill Dunle\'>', and A! Shipacassc dc5cr\'e a lot of credit for the bang-up game they played to uphold the honor of the class of '30. Needless to say, we lost, despite the fine brand of heckling displayed by Bud Weber, the kid from OIney, HI. He Was the 'bug in the hair* of the boys of 1935 all morning. 
"The smoker Saturday night was well attended. and we found that moi-t, of the Thirties have re­tained their prowess as jTool players, and a good many have taken up the game of ping-pong since leaving Notre Dame. Vic Martzcl pounded the piano to the rhyme of the 'Face on the Bar­room Floor,' while a number of ex-Glee Club-ers, with accompaniment, raised their voices in song. 
"Father Grimm, '30, now assistant prefect of religion, celebrated the Mass Sunday morning, in Slorrissey Hall chapel, and it was well attended by the Thirties. The Mass was offered for the entire class, and especially for the deceased members of the class. 
"Art Rcjniers* demonstration of 'germ-free tech­niques* in guinea pigs and chickens, and his tour of the scientific laboratories of the new Biology Building, was most interesting and educational. The wonders of his experiments are too numerous to mention, but suffice to say, we all watched and listened with our mouths hanging open. 
"Now for the swan song of your correspondent . . . who has completed his contract as the scrib­bler of this column for the 'Alumnus.' and has turned his pen over to Dick Donoghue of 310 Riverside Drive. New York City. ... . I hope that the Thirties, us usual, will keep up the good fel­lowship and Cooperate w^ith Dick as well as they have with me. , . . Gentlemen, it was a pleasure. . . . Cheerio.** 
Ed Smith, South Bend, was unanimously elected to the office of Republican chairman of St. Joseph county rerently. A. G. Graham, Jr., 'S~. was elected Repuhlican secretary. 
A place is being held in Brcen-Phillips hall for September for Edward Gallagher, brother of Hugh A. Gallagher. 
T. Vincent Mclntyre is a prominent real estate man in Zanes\-ille. Ohio. 
 Bergan. 83S E. Colfax Avenne. 
1931 Jaiin 
South Bend, In^ana. 
COM3IENCK.>U2N-T KEGlSTlt^VNTS 
John Bergan, South Bend; Rev. Charles Ca­rey. C.S.C.. Xotre Dame; Ed Coomes, Notre Dame; Rev, Aloysius Dayberrj-. C.S.C^. Notre Dame; C. J. Donovan. Bedford, Ind.; James T. Doyle. Chicago; Daniel J, Egan, Chicago; Frank 
T. Flynn, Jr.. Notre Dame; Joseph Gavin, Cleveland; Al Grisanti, Cleveland; Mike HalH­gan, Indianapolis; Myron C. Hershfield, Goshen, Ind.: Jolin P. Hickey, Pittsliurgli; Ed Hoslnskl, Soutli Bend; James Kearney, South Bend; Francis G. Kersjes, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Robert 
J. Kuhn, Lima, Ohio; Ed Murray, Notre Dame; John Murray, Chicago; Bon Oakes, Chicago; Robert L. Pendergast, Chicago; Vincent Ponic, Chicago; Phil Prendergast. Lakewood, Ohio; James Rich, Chicago; Brother Roger, C.S.C., Notre Dame: Ed B. Ryan, Chicago; .Toseph R-Schroeder, Minneapolis; John C. Sullivan, Au­burn, N. T. 
From John Bergan: 
"A very able and enthusiastic group of *31 
men represented the class at the past reunion. 
Though I was unable to see each one personally 
the news was very rampant about the campus 
that there is to be a ten-year reunion celebration 
May 30 and 31 and June 1, and sincere effort 
will be made to get every member of the class 
back for it. Chief among the organizers are the 
old Chicago triumvirate of Barrister Vlnce Ponic, 
Bond salesman Jimmy Doyle, and Chicago Weld 
Company executive Eddie Kyan, who hasn't 
changed a bit in nine years. Eddie has been 
very busy these past few months moving Mrs. 
Ryan, his son and daughter to his new home in 
Chicago's Beverly Hills district. So, let's look 
12 months distant, mates, and plan our vacations 
accordingly. 
"Joe Schroedcr, of Minneapolis, down for his ninth consecutive Commencement, related that he is now Minnesota state secretary for the Ameri­can Peroleum Institute and a confirmed bachelor. Bill Clearj- is now working for a Minneapolis ice cream firm and travels the state of Wisconsin. Ken Fishleigh. also a resident of the same city, is in the traffic department of the Saegar Refrig­erator company. Ken is a benedict. J. Carelton Sullivan was on hand, and recently changed pub­lishing houses. He is now nationwide salesman for his firm, so don't be surprised if Sully lands in your town looking for some business. 
"Bus Rick and Bob Prendergast were here and reported that the Chicago legal business was on the upgrade. Another lawyer present was John Paul Hickey, who stopped off on the way from Henderson, Ky., enroutc to his native Pittsburgh. John does a lot of traveling for his clients, but when in Pitsburgh may be found at 1220 Grant Bldgs Charlie SpinelH is also offidng in the same building and is with a prominent law firm. Congratulations to Ted Lcc, who was married last month. Ted and the Mrs. Lee arc UWng in the Smoky Citj* where he is manager of the Personal Finance iwrnpany. Dick O'Donnell is reporting for the Pittsburgh 'Sun-Telegraph* and Tex Briegcr is in the claims department of the Travelers Insurance company. The boys say that *Galento' Magarall is doing a large restaurant business. Charlie McAlccr is practicing law in his native Altoona and was recently marriisl. Con­gratulations ! 
"Among the Clevelanders present were. Al Grisanti, restaurateur, who was present to see his younger brother graduated, and Joe Gavin, noted Cleveland prep school coach. Joe placed his re­union reser\'ation in and promised us that he would have the Ohio delegation present en masse. He also reported that his three daughters are keeping his spare time very much taken up. Clarence Kozak is with the Otis Steel Co. in Cleveland. Others nole-J at the June Commence­ment were: Dan Egan, the Chicago engineer. Mars Condon, the Morrison Hotel luminary, who. by the way, is now chief clerk of the hotel; and Jcrr>: Crowley, the South Bend paint manufacturer. 
"Frank McGrcal is busy these days on his duties as assistant U. S. district attorney in Chi­cago. Our congratulations are also extended to Joe Decb on his new appointment. We expect to see Joe and Frank and any other member of the class who can attend at the annual Laymen's Re­treat on the campus August 1 to 4, inclusive. It is a greit movement and well worth attending. 

"The state convention of the Knights of Colum­bus, held in Logansijort the latter part of May, provided quite a gathering of the class as there were: Paul Bott, grand knight of the host coun­cil, who was general chairman of the affair and did a fine job in entertaining the visiting broth­ers. Paul is married and is with the H. W. Gos­sard Company. Tom Medland, also of Logansport, was present and is now associated with his father in the contracting business. Harold Tnbcrty. local attorney, also found time to sen-e on the reception committee. Hal will soon obsen*e his first wedding anniversary. Up from Columbus as a delegate came Bob Hllger, who forsook his de­partment store business and his four children to be present. Bob related that Clem Wolsifcr is now in the ditrus growing industry in Jerome, Ariz. He also placed his reservation for the *4l reunion, 
"Among the Notre Dame men at the conven­tion were Tim Galvin, '16, supreme director of the order; EH Abraham, 'S4, state chairman of the Columbian Squires: Paul SL Butler, '27; Louis Buckley, '28; John Bocap, 'SO: John Ham-ling. *2u: Paul Bott, '31; John Bergan. '31: John Blackwell. '31; Larry Sexton. '33: Leo Hendricks, '34: Bob Hilger, *31; Harold Tuberty. '31: Leo Digan, '2S: Fred Schoppman, *28: Hcnrj- Haslcy, '28, who was elected state advocate; Tom Med­land, '30: Tom Carey, '39; and Timothy B. King. Ed Grogan and Arthur Srlna of the class of 1940. 
"It might be mentioned in passing that Eli Abraham received a very fine tribute when he was nominated for the post of state deputy of the Knights of Columbus, but lacked a few votes of winning the post in the election. 

"Tom Monahan has assumed complete charge of the Thomas Monahan Company of Areola, Illi~ nois, since the illness of his father. We sincerely hope that the elder Thomas Monahan has a com­plete and immediate recovery. The Transconti­nental and Western Airlines announces the asso­ciation of Thomas EL 'Ben* Oakcs at its Chicago ofTice. It is reported that Ben, at last is about to give up his role in the bachelor ranks of the class. Al Gall, of the Goyer Publications. New-York, has sent in his resen-ation for the '41 re­union and has informed us that he is a member of the advisory council of New York's Catholic Big Brothers. Bill Habing, the Indianapolis ac­countant, has given notice to the future Missus, and the event will take place late this summer. It is a daughter at the John Blackwclls* in In­dianapolis, and John wishes it known that any member of the class that happens to be in the capital city of Hoosierdom for the national Knights of Columbus convention in August will be heartily welcomed at his domicile. 
"The Frank Flanncrjs, who were recently married, are living in Spokane, Wash., where Frank is in the lumler business. Frank often sees Bob Piggott and reports that he is expecting to make the U.S.C. game in the fall of Los An­geles. 
"Father Charles Carey. C.S.C, took time off from his editorial duties with the 'Ave Maria* this past year to become faculty adviser of the 'Dome.' and we might say that his efforts cul­minatetl in one of the finest annuals in the his­tory of the University. Father Aloysius Daybcrry, CS.C.. is now acting pastor of Christ the King church in Roseland, a suburb of South Bend." 
Alfred E. Gall has been elected to the Advisory Committee of the Catholic Big Brothers, Inc., of the Bronx, New York City, 
James T. Igoe, 328 South Jefferson. 

1932 Chicago, Illinois. 
COMMEXCEJIKNT REGISTICAN'TS 

George Armbruster, Detroit; John Bannon. Louisville; Richard Cannon. Elgin, 111.; Terry Dillon, Chicago; Richard Fabrj*cki. South Bend; Rev. Frank Gartland, C.S.C., Notre Dame; N. 
F. Harbaugh, South Bend; George L. Hennion. Soutli Bend; John W. Jauch, Niles, Mich.; Wil­liam T. Lyons, New Rochelle, N. Y.; Edward Melchione, Chicago; Prank Miller, Jr., Racine, Wis.; John H. Murphy. Boston; "\Y. B. Murray. South Bend; Fran Oelerich. Chicago: Ed O'Mal­ley, Notre Dame; Joseph Petritz. South Bend: Bernard Roethele. Notre Dame; R. J. Rohr­bach, Chicago: C. J. Rufling. Cleveland: Joseph Toussalnt. Chicago: William Van Rooy, Cleve­land; Charles Weiss, South Bend; Ralph D. Witt. South Bend. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
From Jim leoe: "Commencement notes — a la Francis Oclcrich: "Eddie O'Mallcy, former secretary to Bishop O'Hara, is leaving the University to go east. 
'*Mikc Halligan is ^vith General Motors at In­dianapolis. He was the golfer de luxe of the Commencement week-end. 
"Joe Gavin of Cleveland, the former haskcthall player, is much fatter, UiWcr. higger and broader than Tim Moynihan used to he. He was introduc­ing himself as Mike Tccdcrs over the Commence­ment week-end. 
"Frank Kcrsjcs is the Kahtmazoo, Mich., repre­sentative of Glidden paint. 
"Terry Dillon is just back from Florida where he is building ;i home on LaGorce Island. Con­cerning his golf, the Commencement reporter says verj- tersely, 'Nice form; no score.' 
"Xick Ruffing is practicing law in Cie\*eland. He is president of the Notre Dame Club of Cleve­land. 
'"Other 'o2ers sighted over the week-end were John Murphy of Boston (his first trip back to the campus since graduation) ; Maurie Lee, the Chica­go lawjer; Bill Van Roy, the Cleveland coffee merchant; Larrj' Sexton, of Indianapolis; and Bill Lyons of New York. 
"Thanks for the reporting job, Fran. 
RE.VD THIS TWICE! 

"Xo matter how far away you fellows live, you can make our 10th Reunion in 1942 by putting away a dime or 15 cents a day right now. In addition to 1942 being our 10th Reunion, it w-ill be the centennial year of the University. If you have never made a Commencement at Notre Dame, you can't imagine what fun it is to sec nil tlie skinny fellows you knew on the campus weighing from 210 to 290 pounds. Start putting away a little change each week, and make plans right now to be on hand in June, 1042. 
"Herb Giorgio, the big New York attorney, is the only fellow in the class of *32 that really appreciates the 'no material' wail that I've been putting up the last couple of months. He re­sponded with a nice tot of dope. Here 'tis: 
** 'Jim O'Connor is working for an insurance company in Boston, Mass. Vin Whclan is practic­ing medicine in Jersey. Joe Willis is principal of a school in Westchester. Gene Connelly, a new-daddy, is running his Dad's business in New York. Sal Bontcmpo is in the Department of Purchases in Newark, N. J. (Where's Billy, the Goose?)* 
" 'Bill Murphy is running his Dad's business in Belleville, N. J. Frank Riley is with an insur­ance company in Goshen, N. Y. Leo McLaughlin. Bill Darrow, Mylcs Mullen and I are practicing law in New York. Bill Sladcr is with his Dad's firm, a color company, in HolHs, N. Y.' 
" 'George Hennion is teaching at Notre Dame. Drew Shciblcr is with a furniture company in 
N. Y. Willie Weir and Willie Willigan are both attorneys in N. Y. Ray Geiger is a "Big Gun" in the New Jersey alumni club. Don KilUan is with du Pont in Wilmington, Del.' 
"Very good. Herb — I hope about six more fellows follow your example. 
"An announcement from Frank Oherkoctter. the famous Peoria photographer, heralds the ar­rival of a seven pound son. (A photographic im­age of his old man, no doubt). 
"Wilbur Wattcrson is working for the Slate Farms Insurance Company in Bloomington, III. John 'Ke^^Tie' Sherman is in the freight division of the Santa Fe Railroad here in Chicago. (I'll bet he's on the right track, tool — Phooey on people who make puns.) Tighe Woods is man­aging his own real estate business as a means oE support for his wife and two children — and himself, too, of course. 
"Paul O'TooIc, the eminent Chiaigo baritone, is also in the real estate business. John Poynton is huilding the su'oway here in ChicJigo. He has u helper or two. Tom Sexton is president of the Thomas J. Webb Coffee Company. Budd Dynic­wic2 is now living in Decatur, as ho is districc supcr\isor for Deep Rock Oil Company. (Yes, he dhl marrj- Mary.) 
"Louie Gcntill, Jack Gorman, Jim O'Shaugh­nessy and Walt Kiolbasa are all Chicago lawyers. Charlie Docrr and Kelly Powers are both witn insurance companies. Bob Gorman of Chicago is advertising manager of the Local Loan Company. Jack Lynch is selling a lot of Buicks to unsus­pecting customers at his well known Buick agency on the North Side of Chicago. 
"Fran Oelerich, back from a sales trip in the West, had the following to report: 
" 'Frank lucn took very good care of me in Kansas City. Frank is married and has one little girl. He is an attorney with an excellent law firm. He made his bow into politics during the last election as a member of the Prendergast ma­chine. For the first time in 20 years the machine was defeated.' 
" 'Saw Jimmy Higgins in Kansas City also. Jim is an engineer for an oil company, is married and has one Uttle boy. He is the same old "Ball of Fire." ' 
"'Bart O'Hara is a Denver attorney. He is still unmarried, but it looks like he will soon take unto himself a better half.' 
" 'John Humphries is selling insurance in Den­ver. John is married and has two children.* 
" 'Lloyd Bellamy is a dentist in Dallas. His former roommate. Spike Sullivan, of Mattoon, HI., called him up a couple of weeks ago, and, without so much as a "hello, how arc you?" his first words were, "I wouldn't trust your hands in my mouth." Quicker than a flash came Lloyd's reply, "I wouldn't trust my hands in your mouth eilhcr. Spike." (Biting remarks, eh?)* 
"Tliis is the last time 1*11 bother you until the October issue of the 'Alumnus.* Break down and write mc a letter in the meantime. 1*11 welcome suggestions as well as news. 
Judge D. Enimctt Ferguson, of Lafayette, is a prominent leader in a movement to reorganize the city court system in Indiana to increase the courts efficiency. Emmctt contends that city courts have civil as well as criminal jurisdiction, but seldom exercise the former function. 
Bernard Leahy is operating The Silver Skillet, at 353 N. 3VIason Ave., Chicago. 
Howard DeVault is an interviewer for the •un­employment compensation division in Muncie, Ind. His home address is 617 E. Adams St., in Muncie. 
A note from Alvin Culver reveals that he is city manager of collections of Snow, Church & Company, Chicago, which is a real mixture of winter and religion. AI can be reached at 103 BrG:id'.vay Ave., Wilmcttc, 111., his home. 
Recent information says that Walt Noonan is now an accountant but just where we don't know. Anyway, his home address can be relayed to you —1198 Worcester Road. Framingham. Mass, 
Bill Comcford is selling paper for HoIUs & Duncan. Inc., of Chicago. His home is at 743 Forest Ave., River Forest. III. 
Edmond JUoiiartr* 1027 Femdon Road, 

1933 Ann AtboT, Mirtiiyaw. 
COSCUEXCEJIENT KEGISTRANIS 

Jack Armstrong, Akron, Ohio; James Ash, South Bend; Lawrence Baldinger, South Bend; JosepU W. Bean, South. Bend; Jack Breen. De­troit; Robert Brucker, South. Bend; William Cannon, South Bend; "William Case, South Bend; Ben Cashman. South Bend; Charles A. Conlcy, Chicago; Philip DarmodV. Chicago; Maurice DeWald, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Kev. James Donnelly, C-S.C, Notre Dome; Norman Duke, LaPorte, Ind.; Ted Feldman, Detroit, Mich.; 
J. V. Fltzpatrlck, South Bend; Robert Fitz­simmons. South Bend; Brnest Gargaro, Detroit; 
Donald Garritty. Chicago; E. A. Gaua­sclin. Chicago; Charles Hafron. South Bend; Vermont C. Harter, South Bend; Loren Hess, South Bend; Samuel Hyde. New York City; Rev. Jos. Kehoe, CS.C. Notre Dame; James B. Kenny, Nlles. Mich.; Mike Lahey, LaPorte, Ind.; Rev. James J. Leahy, CS.C, Notre Dame; Maurice Lee, Chicago; "Winiani Martersteck, Jack-son, Mich.; Joseph McCabe, Chicago; Rus­sell J. O'Shea. Cairo, HI.; T. C Plnkley. Jr.. Portagevillc. Mo.; Arthur Ruppe, South Bend; Victor Schacffner, Detroit; Edward Troy, "Whit­ing. Ind.; Fellks "Wlatrowski, South Bend. 
Dr. Arthur C. Tatela, who had been too long . in the "unclaimed" file, writes to give us his new address. Slail can now reach him at 220 S. 7th St., Newark, N. J. 
May 19 was the occasion^for the first solemn Mass in Altoona, Pa., of Rev. Richard T. Par­rish, who was ordained by Most .Rev. Edward Jlooney. D.D., May IS, in the Cathedral of the Blessed Sacrament, Detroit. Congratulations! 
^p^ ^ ^ BobcTt CahUL Attiletic Asioclatian, I 7 J t Notre Dame, Indiana. 
CO.^I.>IENCE3IKNT REGISTR.\NTS 
Kll 31. Abniliam, South Bend; John Bcgley, Dftroii; Robert Cahill. Notre Dame; Robert Clional, Cincinnati; Robert Clark. Mulberry, Ind.; John Clauder, Milwaukee; ^laurlce Cur­ran. Chicago; William E. Doylc, Chicago; "Wal­ter Dupray, Port Huron. Mich.; Ralph Else. Auburn. N. Y.; Vincent Pehlig. St. Louis; J. C. Fesler. Barberton. Ohio; Robert FitzSlmon. Chi­cago; irike Fox. Indianapolis; John P. Gorman, Oak Park. 111.; T. R. Grimes, Niles. Mich.; Ed Ilolman. Leavenworth. Kans.; Richard Kel­ley. Indianapolis; Robert Kelley, South Bend; W-Alter Kennedy, Sta.mford, Conn.; "WUUam, Kenney. Charleston, W. Va.; Grenville King. Chicago; Ed Krause, Worcester, Mass.; Paul Manoskl. Huntington. Ind.; Paul Martersteck, Louisville; John McNcrney, Elgin, III.; C. G. McXichols. Chicago; Edward O'Brien. Pitts­burgh: Albert Phaneuf. St. Louis; Joseph Quar­tuch. :Michigan City. Ind.; Harvey P. Rockwell. Xewark. N. J.; John R. 'Wallace. South Bend; Dan Young. Glen Ridge, X. J. 
From Bob Cahill: 
"It's all over, men — I mean, of course. Com­mencement and the school year, and we enter this final bit of noting and commenting for this year's column. I might say that it has been fun, too, and althoxigh we haven*t attained the space or news that the kids from '3o-and-since have filled, wc must remember that they are still full of the boyish enthusiasm that seems to disappear with our hair. 
"I won*t bother telling you whom I saw, in detail, at Commencement, as that is noted else­where in this column. Suffice it to say that it was a distinct let-down after our Flve-Year party of 1939, but that's to be expected. 
"You may recall in the last issue that I invited the wives to drop me a line about the husbands of '34. Shortly after the issue came out, I re­ceived the following from Lansing. Mich.: 'Dear Mr. Cahill: The "Alumntis*' just arrived and in your column you ask the wives of the "thirty­four-ers** to drop you a few words of our old men. That, sir, is exactly what I have been threatening to do for some time (I guess all wives threaten) for I have exhausted my efforts trying to get Bob to write. I think we wives would bring a little life into the column, and probably a chuckle from our husbands, if we would all write a few lines about them, on the 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
QT of course, and watch their eyes pop when thej-
Life of Knute Rockne." Nick is also serving as read about themselves. Bob and I were married 
technical advisor on the picture. at the Los: Chapel on June 1, 193S, with the Rev. John Cavanangh, C.S.C., officiatine. Now we are 
Father Edward Seward is now stationed in 
Cleveland at St. Margaret's Hungarian church. 
the proud parents of a son, just n year old, 
whom We call Michael Joseph. We have visions of him as a future football star, so remember the Fruklyn a Hochrelter. 511 Safait ncme. \vill you? Bob is still with the Silver Lead 1935 Peter St, New Orleans* LoniiiuiB. Paint Company, and is doing all right for him­COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS self, ha\"inB entered the business upon ^aduation. 
John Allen. Battle Creek, Mich.; Jobn T. 
1 don*t want to make this too long for a first Annas. Detroit; Joseph Argus. Indianapolis; timer, but if others will join me in this writing Richard Balllet. Milwaukee; Richard Ballman. 
Green Bay, Wis.; Ray Banabenek, Winona, 
bee, you'll hear more from — Mrs.. Robert W.  J. Beclc, In­
Minn.; Bert Bauer, Chicago; G. Hughes, 416 S. Clemens, Lansing, Michigan.' dianapolis; Rev. Paul Beichner. C.S.C, Notre Thanks, Mrs. Hughes. 
Dame; WilUam Bernard, Barberton, Ohio; Ben Beyrcr, Mlshawaka, Ind.; John Blue. Ncwnric, 
N. J.; Jerome Boyle, Gary. Ind.; John Breon, 
"Mrs. Bill Ayrcs, of Binghamton, X. Y., the Evanston, 111.; Bay J. Broderick. Philadelphia; wife of my old roomie, spent some time in South John J. Burke, Milwaukee; William G. Burk­
hardt. Akron, Ohio; Mil Cabellero, Amarlllo. 
Bend this past month, but this time Bill couldn't Texas; Thomas Campbell, Grand Haplds. Mich.; 
join her here. I received a long letter from him, J. C. Careslo, Chicago; A, P. Carey, Cleveland; in which he told me that Fran Toomey has been 
Ed Carey, Cleveland; Paul W. Carroll, Cleve­land; Robert Carter, South Orange, N. J.; Vic very seriously ill in St. Elizabeth's hospital, Uuca, Carton, St. Louis; Savino W. Cavendcr, St. 
N. y. He was suffering from a complete intes­Louis; John P. Clark. Chicago; James Collcran,  and an Cleveland; Joseph W. Conlon, Albany, N. T.; 
tinal block, underwent operation. His 
condition, from last reports, is still not at all 
good, but he is making gradual improvement. He 
J. G. Corrigan. Milwaukee; James Cronin. Chicago; Anthony W. Crowley, Salem, III.; Al­is probably by now at his home at 38 Doublcday 
fred F. D'Amora. Ardmore, Pa.; Jack Darcy, Street, Binghamton, N. Y,, and would probably Boston, Mass.; Hurdis Dausman. Bremen, Ind.; 
like to hear from the boys, I wish I could print James Dillon. Pittsburgh; L. M. Dillon. Jr.. Pittsburgh; Robert J. Donahue, Chicago; Wil­Ayres' letter in toto, but I can't, for several 
liam P. Donahue, Harvey, III.; John Droos, reasons, the least of which is that it's too long. Storm Lake, Iowa; Jack Duffey, Rochester, N. 
Y;. Fran Dunn. JoUct, III.; Anthony Dunning, He tells me, in characteristic Ayres fashion, how Berwj-n. 111.; James Dwyer, Hudson Palls, N. 
much he liked the column, which, of course, means Y.; Carl Esser. Aurora. III.; Donald H. Felts, that he doesn't like it at all. But X suppose when Indianapolis; Patrick J. Pislier. Indianapolis; 
Patrick Pitzpatrick. Chicago; John C Planigan, one gets old and decrepit, one is inclined to be 
Chicago; Thomas Flynn, Chicago; George Foss. a little cranky, eh Cramps? Chicago; Norman J. Fredericks. Detroit; Am­
brose J. Preehlll. Melvin, III.; John Fr>-, New­
ton. Kansas; John Gainer, Wood River, III.; 
"Bud McNidioIs and John 'Happy' Claudcr were John Yonkers, N. G. 
 R. Gerrits, Y.; James 

here in full force, and I spent much time with Glenn. Whiting, Ind,; Harold Gooden, Tulsa Mkc 'The Little Red' For, from Indianapolis, who 
Okla.; William P. Gorgen, Chicago; Vincent Gorman. Kingston. N. Y.; John Gross. Storm sold policies to everyone he met; Ed O'Brien, the 
Lake, Iowa; Louis j , Grosso. New York City; proud father from Pittsburgh; Ed Carey, from Paul Guamieri, Warren, Ohio; WiUlam Gul-
Cleveland, who, incidentally, hasn't missed a Com­jnont, Des Sloines, lotva; James Hamilton, Ra-ri;ii>. Wis.; Aaron J. Hamm, Waverly, N. Y.; 
mencement since '34; Mnce Fchlig, in whose com­
^Torbert W. Hart, Muncie, Ind.; Philip Heinle, pany were Lou Fchlig, and Gene FeWig (Paul Maplcwood. N. J-; John Hellenthal, Junean, 
Alaska; Martin Hendele, Chicago; Robert L. 
Fchlig couldn't come) ; Ralph Else, here for his Henneberger, Mt, Carmel. 111.; James Hill. Jef­
brother John's commencement; Al Phancuf, of St. ferson City, Mo.; Pranklyn C. Hochrelter, New Louis; Dick KcUy, St. Louis, who brought along Orleans; William G. Hoffert. Chicago; Vincent 
. Hogan, New York City; Robert W. Jassoy, his younger brother Gene, to enroll him for next Nashville, Tenn.; James Jennings. Boswcll, N. 
year; Jadi Lacey^ now Lt. Lacey to you, who Mex.; John Jordan, Chicago; Luke Kelly, Al­flew in from Middletown, Pa-, where he is sta­
bany, N. Y.; William Kennedy, Rockvllle Cen­ter, N. Y.; Edward J. Kllmurry, Racine, Wis.; 
tioned with the Army Air Corps; John Beglcy, the big hospital insurance mogul from Cleveland; Bill Kcnncy, from Charleston. W. Va.; Hugh E. S. Kirby. Newark, N. J.; Philip Klr-Wall, from I>a>*ton; and several others who, as ley. Kewanee. 111.; Art KorzeneskI, Chicago; 
Anthony Kuharich, Soutli Bend: Victor Kurz-I said, are listed elsewhere. 
weg, Plaquemine. La.; Albert Lawton, Lalte­wood. Ohio; Morris P. Lefere, Jackson. Mich.; "And now, with your persission, may 1 continue Frank Leonard. Chicago; E. J. Lynch, Strat­our little 'blow' to those Mar\-elous Men of '3-3. ford. Conn.; John Lynch. Hartford, Conn.; Jo­
soph Lynch, Newcastle, Ind. 
This time I give you, Mr. Bryan Joseph Dcgnan, Joe to you. who edited the 'Juggler' for our class. Fnink T. McGuire, South Bend: William ilea-and did the best job, to my way of thinking, ihat ser. WiUiamsvlUc, N. Y.; Martin Moran. Chi­
cago; Charles Morris, Cortland. N. Y.; Art Mul­was ever done for the 'Juggler.' Joe, a guy with holland. Kalamazoo. Mich.; WlUlam P. Mur­
all kinds of abilitj-, has taken a temporary side­ray. Akron. Ohio; John H- Necson, Jr., Phila­line seat at Vermont Sanatorium. Pittsford, Vt. 
delphia ; Ed Nerad. Bcrwyn, 111.; Raymond Oakes, Kalamazoo. Mich.; Bernle O'Brien, Chi­From the reports I can get, he's doing oil right, 
cago; William O'Connor, Milwaukee; Ed O'­and hopes to be totally sound soon, and lung Hara. Hammondsport, N. Y.; James O'Meara, 
therapy being what it is today, we're positive West Bend, Wis.; John Pendergast, Chicago; James Pick, Chicago; John Pogue, Chicago; that Joe -^viU soon be able to be back with us 
Richard Prezebel, Kansas City, Mo.; Thomas again. So those of us who have escaped physical G. Proctor, Elkhart, Ind,; Al Ravarlno. St. 
Louis; James P. RevIUe. New York City; Rob­travail since our graduation hereby ^ve a 'great 
ert P. Rogers, Rockaway Beach, N. Y.; Roland big hand* to a game guy, Joe Degnan. Drop him Rouleau. Peoria, III.; Walter Ryan, Rochester, a line if you can, and if j-ou can conveniently do N. Y.; William F. R>-an, South Bend; Matt Sa­
gartz, Chicago; Mitchell Saleh, Houston, Texas; so, Joe, let's hear from you. 
R- J. Schager, Indianapolis; Charles M. ScWll, Parmlngton, 111.; Rocco Schlralll. Gary, Ind.; "Until next fall, boys, I'll leave you. I know Dr. Roy Scholz, Cleveland; Karl Schueppert, 
this has been a lousy column, so lousy, in fact, Chicago; Melvin See, Chicago; W. L. Sexton. Indianapolis; James E. Seymour, Niagara Palis, that one of the boys over the week-end suggested N. Y.; Robert E. Shanahan, Rochester, N. Y.; 
that I call it the Fifth Column. But I never did Raymond J. Shea, Springfield, Mass.; Michael pretend to be a writer, and if you can stand it, 
Sheedy, Buffalo, N. Y.; Walter P. Sheehan, Lowell. Mass.; Bob Shields, Kalamazoo. Mich.; I can. Adios." Jack Shodron, Milwaukee; Kurt Simon, South Bond; Jack Slattery, Port Wayne, Ind.; Ed Smith, South Bond; Thomas Stringer, Detroit; William L. Struck. Dayton, Ohio; Claude Tou-
Nick Lukats, termed by his coach, Knute 
rek. Chicago; Norbert Toussalnt. Wilmington. Rockne, as "the Fifth Horseman," has returned Delaware; Nick Vairo, Calumet, Mich.; Al Vlt­
to the gridiron. This time, however, he will be ter. New Orleans; Prank Vukovlch, Ironwood, Mich.; John P. Wacks, BInghainton, N. Y.; 
acting a part, that of Four Horseman Jimmy 
Richard L. Walters. Chicago; Carl Weber, Au­Crowley for Warner Bros, movie tribute, "The rora. Ill,; Fred Weidner, Chicago; Victor Wei­gand. Barberton, Ohio; Eugene Wltchger, De­troit; Lincoln Wurzcr, Detroit; E. R. Zinn. Ironwood, Mich. 
From Franklyn: 
"Well, it is all over, gang — the first five-year reunion. There were about 130 of us back for it. Jim Armstrong has the olTicial list above — look *em over for yourselves I The Alumni Office was proud of your turnout, the Administration made rote of it, and your scribe felt that his work had not been in v^n. 
"We are not going to devote space telling you about individual fellas who returned — that would fill pages. All of j-ou who came back got a chance to find out for yourselves. For the rest — we would like to tell you about every scrap of info we picked up, but we have to keep the column down this month and give over to Com­mencement news. 
"There are a few items that w^e want to take up, however, because they should be known by all the gang. 
"First of all, there was the Smoker. We are sorry it had to be changed the last moment to Carroll Rec — we did not know about that ourself until We arrived on campus. But then, there were compensations, for had it been in the Lay Faculty Dining Room there w^ould have been no pool and ping-pong tables, and they were put to good use. 
"There were So paid admissions to the Smoker. We think there were more there: what do you think? We tried to give you your money's worth and to have sufficient left over to pay for bottle loss, breakage. Mass offerings and general ex­pense. May we frankly say that all expenses were 'just covered.' 
"Among the faculty attending were Father Henry Bolger, Father Trahcy, Paul Fcnion, Doctor McMahon, and Walter Shilts. Doctor O'Grady wrote that he appreciated the invitation, but doubted if he could make it. He sent his best. Tom Aladden sent a letter to the effect that he had undergone a serious operation in April and was forced to go home directly after exams. He wanted to be w^ith us and wished to be remem­1>ered to everyone. 
"There were a lot of men back who did not attend the Smoker because of private parties in town- We know of a few: Gene O'Brien was en­tertaining at his home; Bill Guimont carried fortlt at the Oliver; Gunner AfcGrath was having his outfit somewhere else; and tlie rest of the gang was making merry about town. They missed see­ing the,crowd at the big party but eventually got to see everyone, we hope. 
"Secondly, there was the Mass for Father Wenninger in Howard Hall at 3 on Saturday morning. There was a good turnout of pre-meds for it. Several of our present doctors were among the congregation. 
"Thirdly, the '30-'35 softball game. We took the '30 men by an overwhelming score, and Prexie Proctor presented the white enameled 'gaboon' to our captain. Guess the '30 men lost some of their ole zip in 10 years — let's keep ours and take the five-year men when we get back again in 1945. 
Next, the Alumni Banquet. A swell turnout, gang! We saw a lot of faces that were absent the night before. Everyone managed to get out for the dinner — that was one time when '35ers returning were intact. Bishop O'Hara's short ad­dress Was an inspiration, and it was a treat to see him in his episcopal robes. 
"Lastly, the Class Mass. Howard Hall chapel was packed to the doors. We know some 'ringers' got in for it — but it was edifying just the same. Father Marr, at the last moment, wcs transferred 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
to the academic procession and could not celebrate our Moss. Father Gartland. the prefect o£ reli­gion, did up the job very well, and we want him to know how much we appreciate the 'perfect second.' 
"The Mass was otlercd for the entire class, but in particular for those attending the Mass, and for our three deceased classmates •— John Tinglcy, Barney Parrish and AI Capitell. 
"Now to the two innovations of our reunion: The Wives' dinner and the Fterpetual Moss Fund. 
"A dinner was held for the wives of '35 in the Coral Koom of the LaSalle Hotel on Saturday evening. Six wives and an 'intended* were there together with the wives of faculty members. This was arranged by Mrs. Armstrong and Mrs. Doolej-, 
"Those wives attending the dinner were: Mrs. Al Lawton, Mrs. Joe Conlan, Mrs. Walt Shcahan, Mrs. Tom Proctor, Mrs. Frank McGnire. Mrs. Scribe, and Miss Bartara Dennison, fiancee of Joe Drucckcr. 
"An interesting sidelight on the wives dinner was the meeting of Mrs. Conlon and Mrs. Shea­han, both of whom were married on the same day — one week previous. The reunion was part of their honeymoon. Mrs, Sheahan had been Miss Mary Sullivan of Lowell, Mass.. and Mrs. Conlon was formerly Miss Peggy Moriarity of Albany, 
N. Y. Tlie Sheahans were married in St- Michael's Church in Lowell on the 25th of May, and the Conlons in St. Theresa's Church in Albany the same day, and the same hour, neither knowing of the marriage of the other. 
"The wives who returned with their '35 hus­bands in addition to the above (as far as we know) were: Mrs. Bill Guimont, Mrs. Bob Rogers, Mrs. Fred Caridco, Mrs. John Frj", Mrs. George Foss, Mrs. Bill Ryan, Mrs. Bob Carter, Mrs. Ed O'Hara, Mrs. Jack Slattcry, Mrs. John Wacks, and Mrs. Gene O'Brien. We think there "were others about of whom we did not hear. As a matter of record, will the men who brought their wives back, and who are not listed above, please drop us a card? We would appreciate this for a I>ermanent record. If you will do it as soon as you read this, you won't forget and we will have the record. How about it? 
"The other innovation, and it is that, for it has never teen tried before, is the Perpetual Mass Fund for the Class of '35. We collected S46 after our Mass Sunday morning. That money w-as turned directly over to Father Gartland. The fol­lowing contributed and a permanent record will' be kept of their names, and any to follow in line: Vince Gorman, Frank Vnkovich, Frank Matavosky, Tom Proctor, John Clark, Mart Moran, Art Kor­zeneski, Vic Carton, John Slattcry, Jack Gerrits, Pat Fuher, Ray Shea, Bill Burkhardt, Jim Dwyer. Jim Jennings, John Pendergast, Jim Howard, Jim Hamilton, Gene AVitcfager, Jim Pick, Dick Ball-man, Alel See, Bill Kennedy, Norm Fredericks, Frank Maxwell, Jack Flanigan, Roy Scholz, Bill Ryan, Paul Carroll, Norb Hart, Art Mnlholland, Al Lawton, Bob Carter, Jim CoUeran, Beanie Cavender, Mart Hcndele, Bob Jassoy, Ed Kil­murray. Jack Daffy, Bob Shanahan, Bill OXonnor, John McEUigott, Gunner McGrath, John Corrigan, Walt Sheahan, and your Scribe. 
"The purpose of this fund is to build up a suf­ficient amount of money for perpetual Masses for our class — for the success, security, health and spiritual welfare of each and every one of us. Our goal is a Mass a week forever. In contribut­uting to this Fund, we are helping ourselves as 
I well as every one of our classmates. It is a mu­
; tual bond w-ith ourselves, with each other, with 
\ Notre Dame and with God. Can we afford not to 
i' cement this bond? 
"Ihe Fund as it not stands does not quite make 
a Mass a month until our next reunion in 1945. To guarantee that small number of Masses, we need §14 more. To make the goal of a weekly-Mass until our next meeting we need $260, or S214 more. There were about 130 of us back for the reunion. If you do not find your name among the men above, how about sending in your dollar directly to Father Gartland, the Prefect of Reli­gion, along with your name and your class, so that he may add your contribution to the Fund, and notify us of your pledge with your class, your Alma Mater and your God. 
"Bishop O'Hara has given his blessing to this plan of the Class of '35. Father O^DonncU thinks it a precedent well established. The Alumni Of­fice has made note of a step tow^ard greater spir­ituality among the alumni. 
"To the members of our reunion committee we want to extend our sincere thanks. Mitch Saleh. Joe Lynch and Luke Kelly did noble service at the Smoker. Bob Carter, Ed O'Hara and Tom Proctor ran off the ball game in true '35 stj'le. Art Korzencski and Jack Clark took care of the Class Mass and the Perpetual Mass Fund with their usual ability at organization. To Jim Arm­strong ai:d Bill Dooley, and their v.-ives, we owe a great debt of gratitude. And to all who came and participated — thanks a miUion! 
"That's '30* for our fifth year, gang! For all the swell things you said to us over the week-end about our work — 'it meant more than we could tell you then, or express in print.' If it is your will, we hope to continue our etTorts and make this column the biggest and best between now and 1945. It will mean double trouble and triple work because we are spreading about the country more each year. Just remember —• we'll write It if ycu send it. But we can't oiwrate without your help. So how about jumping right into the swim of things and letting us have your reactions to the reunion for the first fall num'acr? Send them in now while they are still fresh in your minds, and we'll keep them on tap for tho fall. 
"With your help — we can't miss the next five coming up. If they are as successful as the past five — we'll show Notre Dame the biggest ten-year reunion in 1945, just as w-e gave them the biggest five-year clam bake this June. A good summer! 
Kenneth C. Laltlmcr has been named supervisor oT the National Youth Administration residence center at Indiana State Teachers college, Terre Haute. Kenny was advanced from the post of NYA sujiervisor In the South Bend area, where he had done excellent work. 
Dan Youngerman, formerly head of the Speech Department of St. Ambrose college, Davenport. Iowa, has taken over Kenny's former job here in St. Joe County. 
nO^£. Jo*ui Horan. 61 B. 95tli St., Apt. 2. I 7 JO ttew York City. 
CO3ISIEXCE:»IE>'T REGISTIL\NTS 

Joseph C. Barber. Erie. Pa.; George Caittiuii. Jr.. Jluskegon, r^Iich.; Fred Carideo, Detroit; John P. Daley. LaPortc, Ind.; Robert F. Kr­vin. Notre Dame; Frank Gaul. Cleveland; John Gorman, Chicago; Thomas Grady, Chicago: Lieut. L. H. Hansraan, Dayton, Ohio; Leoii Hufnagel. Utica, N. Y-; Howard Jeffers. Chica­go; Frank P. Kelly. Jollet, III.; John W. Klrsch, Indianapolis; George Lynch. Benton Harbor, Mich.; Steve Sliller. Rock Island. III.; Dan O'Brien. Cleveland; Luke J- TIernan. Clti­caso; Joseph Wade, Elizabeth, N. J.; Hugh Wall, Dayton. Ohio. 
From Johnny Moran: 
"We are going to utilize this final column to fire the opening blast In the campaign to make the 5-year reunion of the Class of 1936 the best at­tended, and the biggest reunion ever held at Notre Dame. It will be on May 30 and 31 and June I. 
Note that Memorial Day (Friday) is included. 
That gives you an easy-to-get-away week-end. 
"Why not start planning now to take your vacation at the time when you can enjoy it most . . . during Commencement week-end? There wilt be plenty to be done, and we will call on many of you for a helping band in planning the march on Notre Dame next June. Committees and other chairmen will be announced in these pages in the coming issues. In the meantime, any of you who want to pitch in and help run the Reunion, or who have any sugg^lions for the week-end, just drop us a tine. Talk the Reunion up with the fellows in your neighborhood. See you at Notre Dame next spring. 
"Following our long-suffering managing editor's admonition to keep the column down this month, we pass the following news along without further comment. 
*'Bob Cavanaugh was heard from three times In the last few weeks. Bob, who is with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in Washington, remembered us with a card from Nassau while en a vacation cruise to Nassau. Miami, and Cuba. According to all reports. Bob had a wonderful time under the tropic moon. "When next heard from Cavvy was on a field job in Wilmington. 
N. C. 
"On returning to Washington, Bob dropped us a line to state that Ray Dccly will middle-aisle it next September with a young Icdy from Whi:e Plains. N. Y. Ray is also keeping the nation's banks solvent while working with the FDIC in Washington. Congratulations. Ray, and give us a little more information on the coming nuptials. 
"Bob also reports seeing, at various Interx-als in the Capital city. Jack Barber, who is with an accountant with the Washington 'Times-Herald,* Steve Miller, W^ayne Mlllner, Jess Hawley, Dan Malloy and John Moloney. Jack Barber was mar­ried last fall to a Washington girl. 
"In concluding. Bob writes that he recently heard from Tom Campbell, who is working with a firm of CPA'S in Grand Rapids. Tom states that he put in a tough stretch during the income tax filing periods. 
"Thanks for the letter. Bob. "We'll be glad to hear from you more often. 
"Ken Laws is probably the. first in the class to win his M.D., having graduated from North­western Med School in December. Een can now . be reached at St. Margaret's Hospital, Hammond, Ind.. where he is interning. 
"Dr. Laws states that the life of an interne is an extremely busy one, what with being assigned to the obstetrical service and making between six and 10 deliveries every 24 hours. He reports that he is becoming quite adept at snatching an hour's sleep between cases by stretching out on a large table in the linen room. 'Sfunny .. . MGM always has Dr. Kildare lolling around with time on his hands to solve gang killings and what have you. 
"Kxux has seen Harris Moskowitz, '3T. in Ham­mond. Morris is managing a clothing store, and is also raising a husky youngster to be a future fullback. In winding up. Ken would like to hear from any of the boys around Hammond, as well as any of the pre-meds from 1936. 
"While reporting on our medical alumni, we want to extend congratulations to Doc Casper, who sent us an invitation to his wedding, on June 12, to Hary Loretto Newman. The happy event will take place at Christ the ^n g Church in Louisville, Ky. "Xhe Doc will soon have to be changed to Dr. Caspar, since the pride oC Walsh Hall will (as this is written) graduate from the University of Pennsylvania Hedicsl School this June. Send your congratolations to Doc at 736 
S. 44th St.. Louisville. 
**ConBratuIations also to Ed McXally, who mar­ried Miss Edythe Williams on May 30, in St. Philip Neri Church, Chicaso. Phil DcBniync, of St. Charles, 111., was Ed's best man. .According to the newspaper account of the ceremony, which Mac thoughtfully sent along, the bride and groom met while both were doing graduate work at the University of London, England. Ed, who is treas­urer of the McXally-Pittsburg Manufacturing Corporation, can be reached at 501 South Broad-w-ay, Pittsburg, Kans. 
"Cliff Brown, Xorwalk, Ohio's best known at-torney-at-law. dropped us a line to state that he was ho.*ing to see us at Commencement. "We had to write Cliil that we couldn't get awaj- this year. but that 1941 would find us on hand. 
"Completing the splendid response for letters from the pre-meds which was made in these pages some time back, came one from George Murphy in Georgetown Med School, Washington, D. C. In making his initial appearance in the column George reports that he will get his M.D. in June, and then will put in two weeks of active duty as a first lieutenant in the Medical Corps, at Car­lisle Barracks, which we believe are in Penn­sylvania. 
"After July 1, George will be interning at Holy Xame Hospital, Teaneck, N. J., and he cordially inWles any of the gang to drop in and see him. George Meagher is reported as being set to interne at Kings County Hospital, Xew York. In closing, George Murphy would like to hear from Ed Dunn from Chicago, and any of the other boj*s. Meanwhile, look us up when you get to New York, Murph. 
"So much for the letters of the month. Seen around N. Y. town were George Carey, who is with the National City Bank, 42nd & Madison Ave., and Jack Lcc, who is with the arcliitectural firm of J. W. O'Connor, IG2 E. 37th St. Jack has seen Mauo' Quinn, when the latter visited town, and also Dick Campbell, who is now in Pittsburgh with Gardiner Displays. Win Daj-, Jack reports, is with tlie Local Loan Corporation here in N. Y. 
"At the last alumni meeting we saw Bill Walsh, Bud Goldman, who at this writing is taking a few weeks vacation in Ohio and Indiana, Jim Ileilly, Dan SutU^'an, Tom Dunn, and Jim Sherry, the hermit of Tarrj-town, who reported that Gene Tobin will be married in June. Andy Hufnagel, who is selling General Electric air conditioning equipment in Queens, stated that Walt Matuscvich was due to leave shortly for a two-year job in Peru' as a draftsman with the Fhsco de Cerro Coffee Co. 
"In concluding, our congratulations to Dan Gleason, C.S.C., *3G, who will be ordained in June and will say his first Mass at St. Patrick's Cathe­dral, New York City, on June 30. With that, we leave you with a wish that you enjoy a cool, profitable summer. Don't forget . . . SEE YOU AT NOTRE DAME FOR OUR FIA'E-YE.A.R REUNION!" 
Washington University graduated William C MacDonald, who received his B.S. here in '36, this June w*ith an ILD. degree. 
Frank Gaul will complete his work for his Master's degree at Kent college this summer. He is backfield coach at John Carrol! college, Cleve­land. 
Hugh E- Wall. Jr., LL.B. '36. formerly with Albus &,Greaney, attorneys, Washington, D. C, announces the opening of his own law office, 704 Harries BIdg., Dayton, Ohio. Hugh- •will specialize in fijderal and state tax matters, with Albus & Greaney as his capital representatives.. 
-A hurried note from Alnce J. Murphj* reveals that for the past year he has been toiling for the Cliicago Rapid Transit. Vince confirms the report of his marriage and also of his young blonde lad who, he says, will become a real "Irishman" around 195S. Vince is at home at 714 Seward St., Evanston, 111. 
1097 ^^°^ Foley, 18036 Scfaoenhoer Romd, I TW / Detroit. Michigan. 
CO.MJIENCESIKNT RECISTKANTS 

James R. Bacon. LaPorte. Ind.- Clifford F, Brown, Xorwalk. Ohio; Richard Carroll, Chi­cago; Jolm Coyle, Chicago; Thomas Dillon, GI­rard. Ohio; Jost-ph Dorgan. Chicago; Harolil J. Druecker. Evansvillc, Ind.; Lou Felilig, St. Louis; Fendali Froning, Notre Dame; Arch Gott, Chicago: Lou Rickey. South Bend; Fred­erick Jenks, Los Angeles. Calif.; William Jor­dan, Chicago; B. J. Keffler, Canton. Ohio; W. 
J. Kennedy, Chicago; Timothy R. King, Nilcs, Ohio; Charles Leibin, Cleveland Heights, Ohio; 
E. F. Ling. Chicago; John McKenna, West Orange. X. J.; Cliarles Meyers, Elgin, 111.; Rich­ard Xorris. Trinidad. Colo.; Robert O'Byrne, Chicago; Louis W. Vettcl. Ashtabula, Oliio; Earl 
F. •\Volter, Huntington. Ind. 
1 0^fl Harold A. WUUanu^ 216 East Lake I 7d O ArenDc, Baltimore, Marrland. 
COM5IENCi:5IENT RECISTKANTS 

Jack Anton. Chicago; Hugh Armbruster. De­troit; John Borgman, Evansvllle, Ind.; Leo R. Boyle. Gar>-, ind.; Ed Brennan. Chicago; James Burgess, Toledo; Joseph Campbell, Chicago; James Carson, Indianapolis; ?tlichacl P. Cur­ran. Chicago; Charles Duke, Notre Dame; Law­rence Eby, South Bend: John Foley. Hancock. Mich.; Richard Foley, Trenton, Mich.; John J. Gorman, Jr.. Detroit; Erick Hommingsen. Phil­adelphia; Lawrence Hess, Humboldt, Kans.; Don F. Hickey. South Bend; Robert Holtz, Elk­hart, Ind.; Henry R. Humphrey, Garj-, Ind.; Edward Kinderman, Indianapolis; Phil Kirch, Chicago; Joseph Kuharich, South Bend; Lt. John W .Lacey, Chicago; John Lechnor. South Bend; John P. Mahoney, Ashtabula, Ohio; Rob­ert J. Mazancc. Cleveland; William J. McNa­mara, Chicago; Wlliam Mehring, LeGrange. HI.; Joseph Moore. Detroit; George Morris, Detroit; John O'Connor, Indianapolis; Jack O'DonnclI. Pittsburgh; Art PhUson. Pelliam, X. Y.; John Piouff, Notre Dame; Bob Richards, Niles, Mich.; Otto Schercr, Soutli Bend; Jack Solon. Toledo; Charles Sweeney, South Bend; George Tliomas, Chicago; Matthew Ward, ilononga­liela. Pa.; Herb Weber, South Bend; Charles Welsh, Mahanoy City, Pa,; Abraham Zoss. South Bend; Oscar Zoss. South Bend. 
From Hal Williams: "In requesting copy for the June 'Alumnus,' Bill Doolcy asks that we boil the copy down be­cause of a tight issue. That will be hardly neces­sary' as there isn't much copy this month. Here's what we have: 
"I received invitations to two weddings. On Saturday. June 22, Charles Augustus Kolp, Jr.. Bud to you, will (as this is written) be married to Miss Geraldine Pink at St. Peter's Church, Canton, Ohio. After September I, the couple will live at 1900 El Prado, North Canton Road. Can­ton. Bud's prc^nt address is 2610 N. Market, Canton. 
"The redhead has finally been heard from. William Harold Robinson will (as this is ^vritten) be married to Miss Elizabeth Ann Lang on Sat­urday, June S, at Gesu Church, Detroit. 
"To Bud and Bill, congratulations and all the luck in the world. 
"On May 21, Emcrj- Albert Sherwood was mar­ried to Mi.ss Katherine Lawler at Flint, Mich. I attended the wedding as best man for my former roommate. After a w*edding trip through Michi­gan, the couple \%-ent to Tarrytown, N. Y., where Sherwood is working as an accountant for Chev­rolet. At the moment I don't have their new address. 
"The week before Bud was married I went up to Tarr>lown to see him and we had a delightful evening together, viewing the sights of Westches­ter county with Bob Ennis, a *39 man. 
"On April 13, I received a dandy letter from John Hurst. John, who is now working as sales manager of the Sweeny Sales, Inc., of Toledo, a sound engineering firm. John says, 'At first I thought I would put this letter up on a sample of our work but felt that the shock might be too great to begin with, and then, too, I didn't know if jou could play transcriptions or not. . . . We handle the promotion of national advertisers through talking pictures — the bookings, show­ings, and reports, etc.' 
"At the present time John is working on an invention 'a system of sterilization by means of high frequency sound.* I don't know anything about this, but I suppose the engineering members of our class understand. At least, I hope I haven't given away any trade secrets. 
"John passes along the. following news, 'Jack Solon is still at WSPD in Toledo doing announc­ing and a fine job of it. He was just assigned to a newscasting job about ten days ago. He's network stuff and some day will be tops in the field. Pete Fluge is with Owens-Coming Fiber Glass in the advertising division. Jim Burgess was in over the recent holidays. Tom Shea, the lawj'er, is taking the census at present and has high hopes of using his legal education in some­one's law office soon. Vic Beck is at Michigan Law and having a swell time.* Johnny encloses a picture the Sweeny Sound Co.. and also a book­let showing their equipment being used at the World's Fair in New York. 
"Nick Lambcrto writes a verj* interesting letter from Chicago. He says, in part, 'The five Rover Boys, Dcmetrio, '35, LaLonde, '35 McCIain, '37, Beer, '3S, and myself, still hold forth together in our apartment (1500 North Dearborn). We've moved twice since getting together, but w-e've always found the spot. We've got a big living room with a fireplace, kitchenette, three bed rooms and bath, and we're only three blocks from the lake. [Secretary's note — sounds like one of those Sorin-sub suites.] But — now that we're settled, and like the place Demetrio and I^Londe decided to get married. George D. to Madeline Kelly from Peterson, N. J., and Tom LaLonde to one of the Abbot dancers at the Palmer House.' Nick goes on to mention that he knows most of the Abbott dancers very well and — showing that he is still a journalist at heart — rather modestly confesses that while he w-as on the *Her-Ex,' he scooped Winchell on Mickey Rooney going out with one of the dancers one night. Fine work, Lamberto, — 'orchids' to you on the scoop! 
"Nick has this class news to pass along: 'Re­cently saw Bill Tunney, who travels for Corning Glass; Dan Kyan, who hopes to connect with "Collier's"; and John Bourke, who is still with Commonwealth Edison. Phil Kirch is working for Household Finance, and Red Shea is toiling for W. A. Alexander, the insurance broker.* 
"Another member of the Chicago contingent, Eddie Brennan, was also heard from recently. Since most of it was a personal letter we'll skip it this time because of space requirements. 
"Tom Hutchinson says that he recently had Hank Thcis over to his apartment to play bridge. Hank is working as an accountant at the Chevrolet Body Co. in Indianapolis. 
"Ralph McDonald was thoughtful enough to send some clippings from the Tulsa 'World' of April 7 which gave details on Dick Stucvc's acci­dent. To quote from the clippings: 'Returning to their homes for the week-end, two young Tulsans, both members of well-known families, were killed almost instantly when their automobile crashed headlong into the side of a gasoline truck. . . . Tlie young couple, R. C. Stueve, Jr., 22-year-oId son of Mr. and Mrs. R. C. Stueve, and Miss Mar­garet Ruth Garden, 19 years old, were coming into Tulsa, when the car, driven by the girl, careened out of the misty rain into a truck crossing the highway. . . .' 
" 'Young Stueve, employed by the Phillips Pe­troleum . Corp. at Berber, Texas, had stopped off 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
in Norman where the girl was a student at the University of Oklahoma to ofFer her a ride home. Stueve's parents, on a Havana cruise in the Caribbean, are not expected in New Orleans until Monday. Stueve, a graduate of Cascia Hall high school in '34. attended N.D. and graduated in *38 with an engineering degree. Since that time he has spent most of his time with the Phillips Co. He was a member of Catholic Activities, and for a short time attended the University of Tulsa before going to N.D. . . . Surviving, besides his parents, are two sisters, Miss Alma Mary Stueve and Miss Ruth Stueve.* 
"And that about covers all the news that we have at the present. I haven't received any in­formation from the South Bend correspondents regarding the return of the '38 boys for the June activities so that report will have to wait until fall. 
"While vacationing this summer, spend a few-minutes to drop me a line so we'll have something for the September issue." 
William P. McCarthy, football player and Fine Arts graduate, has again taken a summer position as lecturer-driver on the "Road of Tomorrow," one of the most popular attractions at the Ford Exposition at the New York World's Fair. After graduation Bill played pro football with the New York Yankees and the Union City Ramps in New Jersey. He taught art in Glencoe High school, 
N. Y., in '38, and worked in the Ford plant at Edgewater, N. J., in *3S and '39 while continuing his professional work in portrait painting. William 
H. "Bud" Kerr, '40, star N.D. end, was a Ford Exposition driver on the "Road of Tomorrow" last year. 
Vimcnit DeCoiuM7, SSI N. 15th St^ 

1939 
Kiniai Citr. KaiiMfc. 
COMMENCEMENT KEGISTKANTS 

Arthur Anderson, Chicago; Frank Baumert. College Point, N. Y.; Lou Bemisli. Rochester. 
N. Y.: John Berclk, St. Albans, N. Y.; Benedict 
F. BinkowskI, Chicago; Raymond Bradford, West Point, N. Y.; Richard D. Casey, Mason City, Iowa; John Cella, Fresno. Calif.; George Dempsey. Oshkosh. Wis.; John Donnelly, Mtcli­igaJi City, Ind.; Jack Doyle, Beardstown, 111.; Joseph Dray. South Bond; Don Duffy. Cleve­land; John R. Duffy, Chicago; Frank Fransioll, Memphis; Thomas Gillespie, Indianapolis; Ed­ward Grogaii, New York City; George Hnith­cock, Nashville. Tenn.; Kenneth Higby, Chica­go ; Bob llucther, Burbank, Calif.; John C. Hynes, South Bend; Leo Lancaster. Buffalo. N. Y.; Edward ^fann. Chicago; Joseph ^hlcGuire, Shortsville, N.Y.; Michael McGuire. Shorlsville, 
N. Y. 
Fenton Met?, Logansport, Ind.; Bill MeiraJler, Fenton Mee, Logansport. Ind.; Bill Metrailer, Little Rock. Ark.; John ^lonahan. South Bend; "Willlam^ Murray, Elizabeth. N. J.; Joseph Nigro, Trinidad, Colo,; Jack O'Lvary, Grosse Pointe. Mich.; Arthur Phillips, Notre Dame; William Piedmont, Norfolk, Va.; Julian Pleasants, Nor­folk, Ya.; Frank Reppenhagen. Buffalo, N. Y.; James Rocap, Indianapolis; Carl Sabo, South Bend; Stan Sheeran. Elizabeth, N. J.; Thomas Shields. St. Louis; Edmund Slack. Chicago; Lawrence Sutton. Memphis; Robert Voelker, Ra­cine, Wis.; E. A. Von Hoene, Rutherford, N. J.; John Wilson. Lakewood, Ohio; Hugo Wintt^r­rowd. South B«nd. 
From Vince DeCoursey; 
"One of these days in the far distant future we are going to get together on the 'Alumnus' demands for space and the material on hand for the column. Last month saw a new low reached on per inch information; this month could, with­out too much padding, be a new high. So what happens: not enough room, says Mr. Dooley, cut *em down — we need the space. 
"In line with instructions, we now begin to pare the efforts. First of all, if Joe Harrington will write, and give some more definite address than 
•Winnebago, Minn., we have a letter to forward to him that has been hanging on our conscience for about two weeks now. 
"Next to arrive was a very nice letter from 
Bob Kicrnan, who passed along a good deal of in­formation about some heretofore overlooked gradu­ates of '39. namely: Johnnie Wessels, who was going on a vacation in the East this month in company with Paul Rice, employed by Inland Steel Co. In Pittsburgh the two plan to pick up Al Felts, who is connected with the National Car­loading Corp. and who was anticipating transfer to Akron, Ohio. If at all possible, Bob would like to hear from Bill Ahem there (Bob's address i:; 12-11 North Franklin Place. Milwaukee). 
"More than that. Bob made a sketchy sur\-ey of third floor alumni and found that anyone writ­ing to Joe Moorman is at once given an overdose of blotters of the Equitable Life Insurance Co. of Iowa. Dave Harris is studying art at Chicago University. Bob himself, just by way of mention, t-j with the Falk Corporation, Milwaukee. 
"Lest things be happening to me that have a good chance of going over my head, I take this chance to say to Hugh Gar^ey that I find it very difficult to believe, and as a matter of fact, will refuse to do so until confirmed, his letter from Seattle saying the things he does. I rather sus­pect the great O'Connor. But just for the record: On May IS came an airmail letter from Seattle, Wash., from one Hugh Garvey, saying that he was a supervisor in a canning factory, embalming salmon for a living. If true, we weep for the genius that turned out a manuscript worthy of winning an apologetics scholarship. 
"Incidentally, mention of Ed O'Connor in the above brings to mind that we owe him a letter and certainly the information that Charles Nelson, or some similar name, is employed as an agent supervising the well-advertised clean-up of Kansas City and at latest report was doing just a 'grand' job after finding his real niche in life. 
"Again from our best correspondent, Daniel Falsioni, who took upon himself the duty of seeing that the June column was not quite so bare as the May. 'Dino* reports that his ex-roommate, George Maloy, of Clyde, N. Y,, is with a general insur­ance outfit, and doing very well there. Also that 
.George expects to hear wedding bells in the fall. A letter 'Dino* received from John Sporer said that he and Bucky Ryan were doing very well with Thompson Products in Cleveland. Albany Law School will see both Dan and Bob Ortale in its halls beginning in September — which might call for a silent five minutes of prayer for Albany. 
"At long last came the long awaited letter from Carl Fricke, telling of all his adventures in Europe. Unfortunately we can't print the whole letter, much as that would be desirable, because of the lack of space. Boiling down (as per orders) Cbrl. In about a month and one-half he had cycled about 2,000 miles in England, and spent quite a bit of time on a bicycle in the rest of Europe, and made some quite interesting obser­vations on the progress toward war in Germany and other places before the unpleasantness finally broke out. 
"Carl is on the road for the Tranvers-Fricke Paper Co., and says he enjoys the work very milch. 
"Before closing this too-short-even-though-on­orders column, I want to say that by the time this is being read a new conductor of the column will be being groomed — same name only with a Mrs. in front — and if you'll send your letters to the same address they'll be forwarded. And we promise quite faithfully that correspondence will be more regular next year. The date, incidentally, is June 26, and anyone around at that time is certainly invited to drop in." 
Bill O'Toole still uses the stationery of the Syracuse. N. Y. "Post-Standard," a daily and Sunday newspaper. From his headquarters in Pulaski, N. Y.. Bill enjoys reporting and news photographing and says the staff is a great bnnch to work for. He covers the eastern end of Oswego County. 
Letting no grass grow under his feet, Bbniice 
N. Frank. law graduate, has opened a law prac­tice in South Bend at 410 Lafayette BIdg.. 115 
S. Lafayette Blvd. 
Al Sdunitz, who is living at the YM.C.A. in Dayton, Ohio, is a clerk for the Equitable life Assurance Society of the United States. 
Bob Rompf is an areo-engineer for the Stinson Aircraft corporation of Detroit. Uich. His home address is 3310 Third St , Wyandotte, Mich. 
The Firestone office in Crawfcrdsville, Ind., now claims the labors of Bill Range. 
lO^ A Rolwrt G. Sanfoid, 3934 N. Maryland IT4 U Ave., MUwmnkce, Wis. 
Bob Sanford, class secretary for the '40s, is equipped and all set to do a handsome job of reporting for you. With your help he'U set away to a swell start in the first issue of the next year, in October. Mail all your news to him, — jobs, different jobs, marriages, new addresses, every­thing and anything that you'd like to read about somebody else. 
1937 LEGAL DIREaORy 
(Additions and Chanscs) 
ILLINOIS 

Chicago 
DONOVAN, Paul J, LL.B.. "10 33 N. LaSalle St. Suite 2220 
SCHIAVONE. Leo V., A.B., -32 100 N. LaSalk Street Suite 507 
Frccporl 
SCHMELZLE, Robt. J.. AB-.'S?, LL.B,'38 Charles H. Green Law Offices 301 Journal-Standard BIdg. 
INDIANA 

Hammond 
CARROLU Hugh £.. LL.B., -16 Calumet BIdg. 
IOWA 

Des Moines 
LYNCH, Charles H., LL3. , "29 Bellizzi, Colavecchio & Lynch 407 Southern Surety BIdg. 
Dubuque CZIZEK. Robert M , LL.B., 3 8 313 Bank (c Insurance BIdg. 
NEW YORK 

Broolcljfn 
BURKE, Thomas A., A.B., -26 32 Court Street 
OHIO 

Cleveland 
RUFFING, Cornelius J., A.B , -32 Bulldey & Butler Bulkley BIdg. 
Da}fton WALL. Hugh E.. Jr., LL.B., 3 6 708 Harries BIdg. 
The 23rd Annual . . . 
The First Retreat will open with supper on Thursday evening, August I, and will close with the famous Communion Breakfast on Sunday morning, August 4. 
The Second Retreat, a more closed Retreat, will open on Sunday evening, August 4, with supper, and will close Tuesday even­ing, August 6, with supper. 
Both Retreats are conducted by the popular Fathers of the Holy Cross Mission Band. 
In both Retreats, the retreatants live in the residence halls and are fed in the Uni­versity Dining Halls: 
For either Retreat, there is no fixed charge, but a minimum offering of $10 is asked to defray all costs of the Retreat. 
For both Retreats, any Catholic layman over 16 years is eligible. 
EDITORIAL 

"Where are the alumni?" 
It has been an increasinsly embarras­sing question for the Alumni Office in the last few years of this growing Re­treat — respectfully remindful of the Scriptural query, "Where are the nine?" 
The Holy Cross priests conducting the Retreat, your fellow alumni, look for you. The thousand business and professional men who jump at the spiritual oppor­tunities and the physical environment of Notre Dame, look for you. 
I tell them about the Notre Dame Club Retreats in San Francisco, in New Vork, in New Jersey, in Cleveland, in Detroit, in Philadelphia — and they say, "That's fine. But where are the boys from the St. Joseph Valley, from Laporte, from Chicago, from Fort Wayne, from Indianapolis, from Toledo, from Berrien County, from the Calumet District, from Eastern Indiana? Here's a Retreat ready-made. They don't have to work. The spiritual benefits of a Retreat are tied up with the pleasure of a reunion with fellow alumni on the campus of Notre Dame? What are they waiting for?" 
Frankly, I don't know. 
What are you waiting for? 
For further information, or for registration, address 
Director of Laymen s Retreats Notre Dame^ Ind. 





