The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

ALUMNUS 
mHtiittMlilUIIUpt 

ill*l,i4^ ii ,' \Mlii« 

r^^^^^^^^^^^mm^. 
BLOWS FOR INDIA More than 5,000, the largest crowd ever 
to assemble in the fieldhouse, witnessed the finals of the Bengal Bouts on St. Patrick's Day and helped to swell the net profit for the Bengal Missions in India to a record $6,200. The Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus, which promoted the bouts, reported that the profit was almost $2,000 more than last years record $4,300. 
. Two of Frank Leahy's pigskin men fought for the hea\-yweight crown. Jim Martin, of Cleveland, Ohio, won a split decision over Jack Fallon, who had won the championship the two previous years. 
Bill "Zip" Roemer, of South Bend, k.o.'d Dick Cotter in the third round to win the light-hea\'y\veight championship for the third time in the most c-xciting fight of the evening. Zip, who won his preliminar)' bout on a technical knockout, was behind on points when he exploded a left on Cotter's chin, followed with two more, and the fight was over. 
The other six to win crowns were: 127­pound, James Sullivan, Worcester, Mass.: 137-pound, Jack Grifiin, Brooklyn, N. Y.: 142-pound, Mike Conley, Boston, Mass.: 147-pound, Jim KJockenkemper, Batchtown, 111.; 157-pound, Ned Dailey, Pelham, N. Y.: 167-pound, Jim Brcnnan, Milwaukee, Wis. 

THE COVER 

The Grotto, a replica of the Grotto at Lourdes, France, is pictured on the cover of this issue. The retreat by the lake is the favorite gathering place of students intent on quiet adoration of the Blessed Virgin. 


The \tudents foday 
HERO FOR A DAY 
A crippled i 6-year-old youth with a broad smile and a fighting heart is back in Denver, cherishing a green and white jersey bearing the number "32" and bright memories of a day at Notre Dame. 
Mike Golden, afflicted with cerebral palsy since birth, was the hero and guest of the student body on St. Patrick's Day. He at­tended the opening of spring football prac­tice with Johnny Lujack, and that night, proudly wearing the "32" that Lujack made famous, he sat at ringside at the Bengal Bouts. When he was introduced from the ring a thunderous ovation paid tribute to the courage of a boy who would not admit defeat. 
Mike first came into the news last fall when a Denver newspaper quoted him as saying that the thing he would most like to do is "pass a football like Lujack." John­ny wrote to him, and when the Fighting Irish played Southern Cal Mike watched the game from the Notre Dame bench. 
Mike's trip to Notre Dame was spon­sored by the National Society for Crippled Children and Adults, which named him the Easter Seal Child of 1948. The youth, who has been described by Lujack as hav­ing "more courage than any kid in the country," was accompanied by his father, a Denver fireman. 
THE HELPING HAND 
Students in foreign countries will eat a little better and be dressed more warmly as a result of the Foreign Student Relief Fund campagin conducted by the Notre Dame student body. Lou Burns, of Washington, 
D. C , chairman of the drive, announced that a total of $35,529.39 had been col­lected in the three-month campaign which closed on Feb. 10. The drive was part of the N.F.C.G.S. campaign to coordinate con­tributions by American Catholic College students. 
Among those serving on the general N.D. committee directing the campaign were Wil­liam J. Duggan, Batavia, N. Y.; John R. Murphy, Pelham, N. Y., and Joseph A. Conerty, Jr., Crystal Lake, 111. 
PROFESSION OF VOWS 
On Feb. 2, twenty-eight novices of the Brothers of Holy Cross pronounced their vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience at St. Joseph's Novitiate, Rolling Prairie, Ind. Twenty-one of the newly professed Brothers were immediately assigned to Dujoaric Hall, the Scholasticate of the Brothers of Holy Cross, to study at the University. The re­maining seven were assigned to various houses of the Congregation. Of the twenty-one, seven are C-N-GI'S. 
ALUMNUS PUBLICATION DATES CHANGED 

With this issue of the ALUMNUS we begin a new publication sched­ule, planned in order io give more timely coverage to top events of the Notre Dame altmmi year, such as Universal Notre Dame Night and the Alumni Reunion. The magazine will henceforth appear in January. March, May, July, September and November, rather than in the other six months. 
In order to inaugurate the new schedule, the present March issue is appearing late and in reduced size. W^tb it is a special supplement con­taining a report on the Notre Dame Foundation and an analysis of its operations. 
The May issue of the ALUMNUS, appearing early in May, will be of regular size and contain the regular features, espedolly the coverage of 
BENGAL BOUT — Bemie Boute and Bob Wagner land punches simultaneously Universal Notre Dame Night—WBD 
#

and wear similar grimoces 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notie Dame, Indiana. Entered as second class matter Octo* ber 1, 1939, at the PostofGce, Notre Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council. James E. Armstiong, '25, Editor; William R. Dooley. '26. Managing Editor 
Vol...26 APBIL, 1948 No. 2 
Frank C. Walker Awarded Laetare Medal 
War-Time Postmaster General Fourth Alumnus to Receive Award Made Annually Since 1883 to Eminent Americans 
HON. FBANK C. WALKER, '09 

The Laetare Medal And Moral Leadership 

The Administiation, the faculty and the students, the alumni — all who are in any way a part of Notre Dame — have a spe­cial and warm pride in the award this year of the Laetare Medal to Mr. Frank 
C. Walker, "OS. Ever since his undergraduate days, when he began to demonstrate his quali­ties of mind and leadership, Mr. Walker has himself in a very intimate way been a part of Notre Dame. Exceedingly busy as a public servant for many years, he found the time, as he still does, to serve the University as a devoted tmd able lay trustee. Recently, he hos been named chairman for New York City of the Notre Dame Foundation and to that task in the nation's largest city he has brought the same zeal and understanding that hove 
always characterized his close relation­ship with his school. 
In Mr. Walker there is in significant depth the moral leadership which Notre Dame, particularly through Father John Covanough's words, has so much sought to emphasize in the organization of the Notre Dame Foundation. On this account especially, the Alimmi Association and the Foundation congratulate him and salute him. 
The Honorable Frank C. Walker, war­time Postmaster General and presidential ad­visor, and prominent New York business and civic leader, was announced on March 6 as the 1948 recipient of the Laetare Medal, awarded annually since 1883 by Notre Dame to an outstanding .'\merican Catholic lay­man. 
The announcement was made by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c, president. Mr. Walker is the sixty-sixth distinguished American to receive the Laetare Medal, so called because the award is announced on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent. 
Mr. Walker is the fourth Notre Dame alumnus to be awarded the Laetare Medal. The first was Justice Timothy E. Howard, '62, former Chief Justice of the Indiana Su­preme Court, who received the honor in 1898. Charles P. Neill, '89, noted econ­omist, received the 1922 Laetare Medal, and Dr. Albert F. Zahm, '83, distinguished scientist, the Laetare Medal for 1925. 
An Ideal Public Servant 

Father Cavanaugh, in announcing the award to Mr. Walker, said that "as a cabi­net member for five years during the trying period of World War II, and in many other positions of responsibility in the Govern­ment of the U. S., Mr. Walker has been for many years the ideal public servant." 
"In his extensive business relationships, and in his personal and family life, Mr. Walker has exemplified at all times the highest Christian and American principles," Father Cavanaugh added. "He has given generously of his time and resources to every good cause, and the University of Notre Dame is especially proud to honor this noble and gifted alumnus and member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees." 
During the twelve momentous years of President Roosevelt's administration Mr. Walker held several top government posi­tions and was one of the President's closest advisors. In 1933 he was named Execu­tive Secretary of the President's Executive Council, sometimes known as the "Super Cabinet." Later in the same year he be­came head of the National Emergency Council. Then, in 1935, he was appointed to serve as head of the Division of .'\pplica­
tion and Administration of the $4,000,000,­000 Public Works Program. 
In September, 1940, he was appointed Postmaster General of the United States, serving as such until June, 1945, when he resigned to return to private business. Presi­dent Truman, in December, 1945, named Mr. Walker as an Alternate Representative for the United States to the first session of the General Assembly of the United Nations held at London in January, 1946. During the General Assembly Mr. Walker was se­lected by the Assembly as the United States Representative on its Legal Committee. 
Son of David and Ellen Comerford Walker, Mr. Walker was bom at Plymouth, Pa., on May 30, 1886. His family moved to Montana when he was three years old. After attending Gonzaga University at Spo­kane, Wash., for _ several years, Mr. Walker entered the Law School at the University of Notre Dame from which he was graduated in 1909. From 1909 to 1912 he was as­sistant district attorney of Silver Bow Coun­ty, Montana, and in 1913 was elected to the Montana State Legislature. 
Served in World War I 

Mr. Walker serx'ed as a lieutenant in the Army in World War I. In 1925 he became general counsel and manager of Comerford Theatres, Incorporated, a large chain of movie houses in New York and Pennsyl­vania. He became an intimate friend of Mr. Roosevelt in the late 1920's. A former treasurer of the Democratic National Com­mittee, he served as Chairman of this com­mittee in 1943-44. 
Mr. Walker for years has been active in Catholic charities. He is a member of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University, and a trustee of the University of Scranton. Notre Dame made him an Honorary Doctor of Laws in 1934, the same year he received a similar degree from the Montana School of Mines. He is also a director of the Grace National Bank in New York. 
On Nov. 11, 1914, Mr. Walker was mar­ried to Miss Hallie Boucher. They have two children, Thomas J. Walker, '42, and Laura Hallie Walker. 
•ag -ae-ae-ai 'g-^g^ Jg ag ^g-



REPORT ON THE 
'23 '2S '33 
g- "^g ^g -3g Jg 
25-YEAR REUNION 


Class of 1923 

When JOE NYIKOS, ED KREIMER and LOUIS BRUGGNER from South Bend and EDDIE GOULD, JOHNNY MON­TAGUE and DICK NASH from Chicago got together at mid-way Gary, Ind., on March 10 they set in motion a lot of ele­gant plans that will culminate in the 1923 Silver Anniversar>- Reunion on June 4, 5 and 6. About these plans you'll hear more pronto via the U. S. mails. Unfortunately, this issue of the ALUM.NUS had to go to press before actual details were available. 
The Gar)--meeting sc-vtet were unanimous in this: the success of the reunion depends, most of all, on having a large proportion of the members of the class return. Last year, 1922 hit an all-time high for reunions when about two-thirds of the living classmates got back to Notre Dame. There's no reason why 1923 shouldn't do at least as well. 
With the cooperation of the Alumni Of­fice, the reunion committee will soon send to ever)' '23 man a class roster, with cur­rent addresses. When you receive this, get the correspondence ball rolling among your "gang." Make it a point to write to at least five of your close friends in '23. Chances are that if they know you are com­ing, they'll come too. That's the way at­tendance builds up. 
More later. Watch for the postman. 

P.S.: The South Bend delegation was luncheon guests a few days later of Rev. John Cavanaugh, c.s.c, president, and more reunion plans were hatched. 
—PAUL CASTNER 
20-YEAR REUNION 


Class of 1928 

As of March 5, three months prior to the big event, I have heard from 175 class­mates who expect to attend the twenty-year reunion on June 4, 5 and 6. On the basis of these early returns, I predict at least 200 men from our class, including the LLB '29 men who were in our class for four years. 
 expect this prediction is too conser\'ative when we consider that BERNIE GARBER and his high powered Publicity' Committee 

 :aE^ -ag ag- -ag ^g­
will be in action by the time this is in print. 
Arrange your travel plans to be at Notre 

Dame by 6 p.m. Friday, June 4, at the 
latest. You will be assigned at the regis­
tration booth at the entrance to the campus 
to a residence hall on the campus for '28 
men. This hall will be '28 headquarters 
where all of your friends will be staying. 
As you know, WILL.\RD WAGNER and FLOYD SEARER, chairmen of the Local Arrangements Committee, have lined up the Izaak Walton League Lodge for the Friday night fish fry and get-together party. This lodge is located off Dixie Highway across from Healthwin Hospital. The fish fry will begin at 7 p.m. Friday night, June 4. As you are assigned rooms at the '28 residence hall you will obtain your ticket to the party and instructions for those driving as to how to get to the part>-. Transportation will be arranged at this point to the party for those without cars. It is essential that you advise me at once, in case you haven't already done so, that you will attend, so we can make definite plans for the part>'. 
A Mass for the living '28 men is being arranged by JOHN IGOE for Saturday morning. 
All '28 men will be seated together at the general Alumni banquet Saturday Night. 
The Sunday morning Mass for the 25 de­ceased '28 men will be said by FATHER JAMES GALLAGAN, c.s.c, who was chosen by vote of the class as celebrant FRANK CREADON is already in contact with '28 Glee Club men who will sing at this Mass, thus establishing something new in the participation of alumni at commence­ment reunions. Also, FRANK and JIM O'TOOLE, the sons of our deceased class­mate, FRANK O'TOOLE, and the first sons of a '28 man to attend Notre Dame, 
•willser\'e this Mass. 
In addition to the above events there will be a varsity baseball game Saturday aft­ernoon, a '28 Softball game arranged by MAURICE CONLEY, and golf. The most important thing, however, is that you will ha%'e the opportunity of renewing old times with over 200 old friends beginning Friday evening at the party. Please do your part in helping us plan for this affair by letting me know at once that you will be present, if you have not already advised me. A postcard addressed to me at 170 E. 191st St., Euclid 19, Ohio, will make it possible 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

^g -^ g •^E^ -atEL :aE 

 REIJNIOBf 
'3S 'Jf3 
 -ag -ag- -ae -ag —^ 
for the local committee to know how many 
to expect at the Friday night party. 
—LOU BUCKLEY 
15-YEAR REUNION 


Class of 1933 

It will probably be at least a twice-told tale by the time you read this far in this ^ issue of the ALUMXUS — but since the mag-w azine is changing its schedule. Bill Dooley requested me to file only an account of my reunion plans. Like a great many others, I imagine, my plans at the present largely consist of hopeful prayers that the butcher, the baker and the kilowatt-maker will leave me enough mazoo to get to South Bend. (Once I get that far, I can walk to re­union !) 
But after I get in the shadow of the Dome, 1 have a few other plans. They may sound a little out of place here — although perhaps no more so than the rest of the trivia I'm guilty of. Anyway, my first stop will be the Grotto, or Sacred Heart church, whichever is closest on my line of approach. I spent quite a few hours at both places while I was an undergraduate. Looking back, they were about the best hours I spent at Notre Dame-r-and I wish I had spent a lot more like them. There are many things that have happened since that I want to ^ express my thanks for — many others I want ^ ' to think out and talk over. Hope I see other 33-ers there I 
Then, of course, I'll go looking for hands to shake; seek old familiar faces (for which I will try to remember old familiar names) ; breathe a few suitable oohs and aahs at the campus changes: in other words go through the regular reunion routine. There are many of the fondly-remembered Old Guard I'd like to see —FATHER CAVANAUGH {hope to see him at least — presidents are busy men!); FATHER JOHN BURKE (another hope — Business Managers are also busy); the Frs. LEO WARD; and, among the laymen, RUFE RAUCH, FRANK O'MALLEY, TOM STRITCH—and class­mates without number. Reunions, however, arc busy, confusing times; I may not be able to meet all or any of them. But I will see Notre Dame — the One to whom I'm really going to be reunited: my source of good memory and fountain of strength. 
—JOE McCABE 


10-YEAR REUNION 

• Class of 1938 
You all know that the ten-year reunion starts on June 4 . . . that the general com­mittee has been named . . . and the South Bend committee has made elaborate plans and is working hard. 
My only report is that the money is be­ginning to roll in. I've received the fol­lowing: TOM MULLIGAN, $1; JOE MOORE, $2; PAUL HUGHES, $1; RAY LONGSTRETH, $5. 
JOHNNY O'CONNOR reports that the following have each sent in a dollar contri­bution: "BUD" MACKIN, JACK ANTON, BOB LEONARD, EDDIE BRENN.\N, SCOTTY REARDON, CHARLIE MOR­ROW and EDDIE MANN. 
All this money has been forwarded to the reunion secretar>-, JOHNNY PLOUFF, as­sistant business manager at the University. I suggest that all future contributions be sent to him direct. 
^ Incidentally, you boys might have no­
^tice d that the class notes appealed for $1 contributions and the literature sent out by the South Bend committee asked for $2. We evidently are going to need at least $2 so if you fellows can make it that everything will be fine and dandy. 
O'Connor also writes, "I also rccevied enthusiastic notes from JERRY KANE, "GIZ" NOWAK, JOHNNY DiMATTEO, TEX HAGGAR and MALT MONTACEL­
LI. All of them with the possible exception of Hagger will be there in June. I received a long distance call from 'PUFFY' CAR­SON and he immediately wanted to com­plete all plans for leaving for South Bend, even to the hour of departure from Indian­apolis. KILRAIN, SAUTER, Jim and my­self hope to go together." 
That's about it except that the fifty-cent cigar I offered for the first contribution goes to Tom Mulligan. His contribution arrived on February 24. 
• y Send the money along to Plouff, and get your friends interested in attending the re­union.—HAL WILLIAMS. 

5-YEAR REUNION 

Class of 1943 

What's happened to . . . How about the time we . . . Who was that guy that . . . Do you remember . . . What a character he was! In our day they never had . . . Re­member when .. . It wasn't like this when we were here! 
Such things as these will be heard over and over again June 4-6 this year when Notre Dame alumni gather for another big annual campus reunion. 
And if, like most of us, you've been busy tr>"ing to make your champagne tastes fit your beer income and haven't noticed be­fore, this is the Year 1948 — and the class 
^^pf '43 will meet to howl on our first ofiScial "" reunion, our five-year jubilee. 
We're invited back every spring, but it's every five years we become an honor class and this June is it. Plans were started with the weekend of the Army game to make this the biggest and best any five-year class has ever had. That Saturday morning all the men that could be found were rounded up for an organizational meeting. 
PETE MORITZ, who did such an excel­lent job on our Senior Ball, and, who^ as co-owner of his own business, has more time available than most of us, is again the gen­eral chairman. He'll be working hand in hand with President JACK TALLET, the .•\lumni Association heads, his committee chairman, and myself to mate sure that no man who can possibly get there, misses it. 
HERB MELTON, now fencing coach and law student, heads the committee on campus arrangements. Herb promises one of the better halls to hold all of us and is already well along on arrangements for our big party at one of the clubs in South Bend. Assisting him arc the other '43 men in the Notre Dame area. 
Men have been contacted in some of the larger cities to help with the individual con­tacting of each member of the class. These men will also act as central information centers for transportation. If the records of other classes hold true this year, many men 

New York Club to Run Train to Reunion 

The Notre Dame Club of New York is running another special train, this time for the Commencement and Reunion June 4, 5 and 6. The Pullman cars will all be air-conditioned, double bedroom cars. Depar­ture is planned for Thursday night, June 3, at 7 p. m. and the train will return Sunday night, June 7, after Commencement ex­ercises. 
These air-conditioned cars will be held on the siding at the University and can be used for living quarters during the week­end, making hotel accommodations unnec­essary. All those who made the Army game trip last Fall will remember how well run that trip was, and this repeat promises to be ever)- bit as enjoyable. 
Those interested in securing accommo­dations on this trip should write immedi­ately to: Colman O'Shaughnessy, Room 1127, 17 E. 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y. O'Shauhnessy will send you full details as to pricefi types of accommodations, etc. 
Those who cannot leave Thursday night but ca nleave Friday can probably be ac­commodated also. Please specify Thursday or Friday night departure when you write, chosen by vote of the class as celebrant, will drive to South Bend, especially those living within 250 miles. If you're one of those driving and have an extra seat or two, call your local committeeman and he'll give you the names of those looking for rides, .^nd those in New York and the East, call those same fellows and they'll tell you what train the majority are talcing so you can start your reunion on the rails. 
Along that line BILL JOHNSON is chair­man of the New York and East Coast gang with assistance from FRANK CONFORTI and BOB MARTIN. JACK EDWARDS is the contact man for the Pitt and Western Pennsylvania area. President TALLET and LEE RAYMOND are handling the job in the Chicago regions. J. J. BECKER in St. Louis, TOM FINUC.\NE in Kansas City, DON HELTZEL for Cleveland, BILL MIDDENDORF for Louisville and Cincin­nati, BOB MORRILL for the West Coast, ED HICKEY for Detroit and Michigan are all others who will help. 
Our class has consistently been among the leaders in the Annual Alumni Funds and therefore can be expected to have a large percentage of its members there in June. As an example of what can be done, last year the class of 1922 set an all-time record by having 66 per cent of its class there. Let's get there and beat that record. 
One important thing more. Reservations will be welcome anytime but it will be help­ful to Pete, Herb, and the Alumni Associa­tion if you get yoius in early. For to prop­erly provide for accommodations and ar­range for our party, they must know ap­proximately how many are coming. Drop a card to PETE MORITZ, 486 Woodward Avenue, Mansfield, Ohio. 
Suggestions for things to do in addition to the big party have been a picnic and a special memorial Mass for the dead of the class celebrated by one of the class' own priests. If you think these are good ideas, or think of any others, drop Pete a line and he'll see what he can do. 
You can expect a letter from President Tallet in the near future and from time to time other news will be sent along to keep you up-to-date on arrangements. 
This is our first'big opportunity to get back together again and talk over old times. Let's make the most of it.—ED RONEY 
Alumni Clubs Boost 

Foundation Drives 

It is highly gratifying to note that already a mmiber of clubs are joining with chair­men and committees in stressing the partici­pation of alumni in the '48 Fund. This is one of the most important current functions for the local Alumni Club, and indicates a strong, integrating, co-operative spirit be­tween the club and Foundation. 
Dr. Bertrand Coughlin, city chairman, and Fred Weber, Jr., president, are com­bining to make an efifective participation program for the St. Louis Club. The St. Joseph Valley Club, under the leadership of John E. Mclntyre, is helping Bernard J. Voll, South Bend chairman, to obtain a higher participation of alumni than at this same time a year ago. City Chairman Frank Walker and Club President John A. Hoy^ Jr., are striving to double the participation of alumni in the New York City dub over the 1947 figure. 






ATHLETICS • • 
BASKETBALL 
Coach Ed Krause's Notre Dame basket­ball team, although losers of seven games during a rugged 24-game schedule, proved to be "giant-killers" in ever>- sense of the word during the 1947-48 campaign as the Irish defeated three of the nation's top-ranking quintets during the course of the season. 
Winding up the season with a record of 17 victories and 7 defeats, the Irish ser\'ed as "spoilers" for powerful Kentucky and New York Universit>' squads, since they were one of only tivo teams to beat Adolph Rupp's Wildcats and pro%-cd to be the stum­bling block for Howard Cann's Violets by snapping a 19-game winning streak in the traditional Notre Dame-New York Univer­sit>- tilt in Madison Square Garden. 
And the Notre Dame cagers provided still another upset, this time in Midwest circles. In the first of a homc-and-home series with Ccach Ray Meyer's DePaul Demons, the Blue and Gold hardwood aggregation turned in a 52-to-46 \'ictor>- in a game played at Notre Dame. Later in the season, DePaul turned the tables on Notre Dame in Chicago Stadium when the Chicagoans won a 50-to-46 verdict, but the Irish remain as one of only four teams to defeat the Meyer quintet in the regular season. 
Tossing aside the spirited and convincing 64 to 55 \'ictor>- over Kentucky — which certainly is not to be taken lightly, but which was treated rather fully in the last issue of the .'\LU5IXUS—we can say the basketeers reached a season's peak in their upset win over the highly-touted New York Universitj' Violets. 

Like the Kentucky triumph, Notre Dame's win in New York was not in the nature of a "fluke" wctor)', but rather was by a de­cisive five-point margin achieved in the final five minutes of play. And the win, in a rough and tumble affair, was the result of what was probably one of the greatest displays of sheer courage ever displayed in the Garden. 
Notre Dame entered the Violet contest in the closest to top-strength since early season play. John Brennan, husk)- high-scoring center who had suffered a broken arm against Denver on Dec. 20, had returned to the squad just in time for the Eastern trip, and although naturally not at full strength due to the long layoff, provided the added spark which the Irish had been lack­ing during his absence. 
During the first fifteen minutes of the contest, Notre Dame and NYU battled on virtually even terms, as the lead changed hands nine times and the score was tied on four other occasions. Don Forman and Ray Lumpp assumed command at this point. 
By Raymond J. Donovan, '42 
Assistant Director of Public Information 
however, and zoomed the Violets into a 
commanding 32-to-23 advantage which ap­
parently was the turning point of the con­
test. Kevin O'Shea, who turned in one of 
his best games of the season, and Brennan 
deemed otherwise, however, and by halftime 
the Irish had narrowed the count to 35-32. 
The second half was another one of those 

nip-and-tuck affairs in which first Notre 
Dame and then New York surged to the 
fore. With eight minutes remaining, how­
ever, and the Irish holding a slim 49-48 
lead, brilliant Leo Bamhorst, rebound artist, 
fouled out of the contest. Only one minute 
later, and with New York University hold­
ing a 53-49 advantage, Brennan followed to 
the bench via the personal foul route. Seem­
ingly, this was the end of the line for Notre 
Dame's chances. 
But it was at this point that the Irish dis­played to the vast crowd an amazing show of the famed Notre Dame Spirit. John Foley, in for Brennan at center, caged a free throw, and Buster Hiller hit on t^vo midcourt set shots to once more send Notre Dame back into the lead. And although NYU assumed one more brief one-point lead, the Irish were not to be defeated and came back seconds later to grab the lead for keeps. 
In the final five minutes the Irish took the fight away from N'YU and when, with five seconds remaining and Notre Dame holding a three-point margin, Jimmy O'Hal­loran sneaked under for a final clincher, Notre Dame was assured of keeping the George E. Keogan Memorial Trophy, sym­bolic of supremacy in the Irish-Violet series. 
So much for the prominent high points of the season for the Irish. Otherwise, probably the most outstanding feature of the campaign was the snapping of the lengthy Notre Dame home winning streak by a St. Louis University team which on that par­ticular night looked to be the top team in the nation. 
After upsetting Kentucky to run the home streak to 38 straight wins since 1943, the Irish took to the road to edge past Butler, 53 to 52, and trounce Detroit, 55 to 30. Returning to their home floor on Feb. 9, however, the team met a red hot St. Louis five that could do no wrong and the result was a 68 to 51 victor)* for the Billikens. 
The Irish losing streak reached two when DePaul came through with a 50 to 46 tri­umph in Chicago Stadium, but Coach Krause revamped his lineup and the result was a 51-44 win over Michigan State at East Lansing. Notre Dame went stone cold the following week, however, and the same 
Spartans managed a 54 to 50 win on the 
Irish home floor. 
This was the final defeat of the season for the Krauscmen. The following night, which marked the return of Brennan to the squad, both O'Shea and guard Paul Gordon were on the sick list, but the Irish managed an overwhelming 72-55 triumph over Mar­quette. Swinging East, Brennan scored 22 points to lead Notre Dame to a 64-53 win over Canisius in Buffalo, and, after the NYU win, the Irish rallied in the last half to gain a 60-56 decision over Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. 
Closing the season. Coach Krause's quin­tet journeyed to Milwaukee to face Mar­quette in a return game, and although Hill-^ topper ace Gene Berce set all kinds of rec-^ ords with 35 points, Gordon, Brennan, Bam­horst and company came through with a smashing 76 to 62 verdict. 
O'Shea was almost a unanimous AU-American choice at the end of the season. Among the mythical teams the sophomore Irishman rated were the Associated Press, True Magazine and Sports-Week quintets. Bamhorst, probably the most consistent per­former on the Irish squad and the leading scorer with 290 points, rated several All-Midwest teams, garnered honorable mention on the Associated Press AU-American and was named on nearly ever)- all-opponent team selected at the end of the campaign. 



BASEBALL 

Although well-fortified in most positions. Coach Clarence J. (Jake) Kline is faced with the problem of replacing three of the ^ "big guns" from last year's Irish baseball^^ team as the Notre Dame coach grooms his prospects for the opening of the 1948 cam­paign. 
Especially conspicuous by their absence in the Notre Dame camp this year are ^ trio of the Irish leading hitters — catcher Tom Sheehan, outfielder Jack Mayo, and third baseman Bobby Klein. All three of the aces have been graduatd and are play­ing professional baseball. 
Sheehan, with his all-around ability and excellent throwing arm, will be particularly hard to replace. Kline has on hand, how­ever, two reser\'e backstops from last year's club in Jim Presley, of Spokane, Wash., and Tom Coccetti, of Hulberton, N. Y., to handle the catching duties. 
The t%vo infield spots at first and second base are generally conceded to last year's starters, Ray Petrzelka, of Cedar Rapids, la., at first, and Benny Kozlik, of Chicago, at-«. second. Coach Kline is experimenting with v the idea of moving last season's shortstop. 
Gene Laverj-, of New York, over to third base to replace Klein. If this switch is made, the Irish also will have a highly ca­pable boy to step in at shortstop in Pete Koblosh, of Brooklyn, N. Y., who was a regular on the 1946 team. 
The Irish have a profusion of capable performers to patrol the outer gardens, but Mayo's consistency at the plate and strong throwing arm will be sorely missed, .'kmong the strongest bidders for the outfield posi­tions are John (Buster) Hiller, of East Bernstadt, Ky., Steve Pavela, of LaCrosse, Wis., and Dan Kriszcziokaitis, of Chicago Heights, 111. .<\nd when not taking his turn on the mound, John Crcevey, of Clawson, Mich., likely will be utilized in the outer gardens to take advantage of his heavy hit­ting ability. 
Last season's potent crop of pitching can­didates returns for the 1948 season virtually intact. Leading hurlers available for com­petition this year include Walter Mahannah, of Memphis, Tenn., southpaw Dick Smullen, of Forest Hills, N. Y., portsider Jack Camp­bell, of Lowell, Mass., and righthanders Bill Sherman, of St. Paul, Minn., and Dick Kluck, of Chicago. 

FENCING 

Coach Herb Melton's 1948 Notre Dame fencers displayed plenty of power in all de­partments throughout the campaign to an­nex nine victories against a single defeat for the best Irish fencing record of the past decade. They won from four Big Nine teams, including Northwestern, the Confer­ence Champion. 
Coach Melton, who deser\-es plenty of credit for the work he has done in develop­ing such an outstanding Irish fencing ag­gregation, turned in the magnificent job while coaching on a part-time basis. Melton handled the fencers in spare time, since he is a Law student at Notre Dame. 
The Irish fencers opened the season wth a 15 J/2 to ll/ o victory over Ohio State, and followed with three consecutive triumphs over Case, 18iA to SYi, Michigan State, 15 to 12, and Northwestern, 14 to 13, before suffering their only loss of the season. Chi­cago's crack fencers, unbeaten in three years, edged past Notre Dame, 15 to 12, to provide the only blot on the Irish mark. 
Notre Dame came back, however, to de­feat Illinois, 14 to 13, to institute a five-match winning streak. Other victims of the Irish included Cincinnati, 17 to 10, Detroit, 17/= to 9/2, Wisconsin, ZOM to 6V2, and Illinois Tech, 26 to 1. 
Outstanding in the foils for the Irish throughout the season were Mike DiCicco, of Newark, N. J., who won 29 out of his 30 bouts, and Capt. Lou Bums, of Wash­ington, D. C. In the epee, Ralph Dixon, of Long Beach, Calif., was the most con­sistent winner, while Ralph Witucki, of South Bend, and Bob Schlosser, of Spring­field, 111., were outstanding in the saber event. 

TRACK 

Notre Dame's track and field squad, with only scattered individual relay performances remaining in the indoor season, turns its attention to the fast-approaching outdoor campaign. 
Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Handy's cinder-men finished the regular indoor campaign with a record of one victory in three dual meets and impressive showing in other relay events and the Central Collegiate Confer­ence indoor conclave. 
A former Notre Dame athlete, Madill (Bud) Gartiser, proved too much for the Irish to overcome in the opening meet of the season as Missouri registered a 65 to 49 victory over Notre Dame. Gartiser won both hurdle events and ran second in the 60-yard dash, while Bill Leonard, Notre Dame ace distance man, copped both the half-mile and mile to pace the Irish. 
Notre Dame placed in eight events at the star-studded Michigan State Relays. In­cluded in the Irish performances were a sec­ond in the 240-yard shuttle hurdle relay, second in the sprint medley relay, a tie for second place in the pole vault by Jim Miller, and a third place in the shot put by John Helwig. 
Iowa proved no match for the Handymen in a dual meet at Iowa City, as the Irish romped to a 78 to 36 triumph. Notre Dame displayed a good balance of power in all events, as the Hawkeyej were able to win first places only in the high jump and the 60-yard dash. 
Penn State turned in a close 58% to 52}4 decision over Notre Dame in a dual meet that featured the "collegiate mile of the year" between Penn State's Gerry Karver and the Irish Leonard. Leonard and Karver battled neck and neck during most of the race, and in the last lap Karver's running mate, Horace Aschenfelter, came from be­hind to nip both Karver and Leonard at the tape. Aschenfelter also copped the two-mile run, while Karver later in the day fin­ished second in the half-mile. 
Coach Handy's athletes finished a close second in the Central Collegiate Relays at East Lansing as the Irish registered 51 1-5 points to 61 11-14 by Michigan State. Indi­vidual stars for Notre Dame in the meet were Ernie McCuUough, who won the 440­yard dash, Jim Murphy, winner in the two-mile, and John Smith, victor in the high hurdles. 
In the Illinois Tech Relays, the Irish grabbed a pair of first place medals. The sprint medley relay team, consisting of Steve Provost, Bob Smith, John Murphy and Leonard, won their event, while the dis­tance medley team of Provost, McCullough, Jim Murphy and Leonard, came home \vin-

GOLF 

Four monogram wnners from the 1947 team are expected to provide the nucleus for the 1948 Notre Dame golf team. 
Monogram winners from last year's team who are expected to retain their positions on the Irish links team include Captain Dick Seidel, of St. Paul, Minn., George Stuhr, of Garden City, N. Y., Jack Fitzgerald, of Ash­land, 111., and Tom Dore, of Dearborn, Mich. 
Other aspirants who are expected to make a determined bid for positions on the six-man squad, however, include Jack Quinn, of Orange, N. J., Maurice White, of Peoria, 111., Art Arquilla, of Chicago, 111., Bob Rolfs, 
NYU's Foreman falls while Kevin O'Shea jumps over him in Madison Square Garden. of West Bend, Wis., Edgar Kleffman, of Notre Dame won, 64-59. [Continued on page 77] 
Texas Meeting Brings Out Needs of N. D. 
The ALUMNUS regrets that space does not permit -a full report of the outstanding meetings of Notre Dome groups in Dollos ond Houston on the occosion of the visit of Rev. Robert Sweeney, C.S-C, and Foundation Chairmon Horry G. Hogan. But it would be a mistake not to bring to readers some of the eloquent pertinent material presented to the friends and alumni of Notre Dame by the outstanding lead­ers whom the Foundation efforts in Texos hove en­listed. The Texas Foundation progrom has been established under Governor Jim Swift and Chairmen George Stroke and Thomas Braniff. The following excerpts are reprinted from notes made on the extemporaneous folks given at the Houston meet­ing.—Ed. 
GEORGE W. STRAEE: 
".. . Notre Dame stands for cvcrj'thing that real Americans stand for, and I am go­ing to do a fairly good job as Houston Chairman of this verj- lovely Foundation. I think, when Father Sweeney and Mr. Hogan tell you about this plan, that you fellows of Notre Dame who have been privileged to be graduates of Notre Dame will become new alumni because you have something to work for. If you alumni can't appreciate Notre Dame, how can you sell it to someone else? I went to St. Louis, but I love Notre Dame equally as well. If you believe in .Amer­icanism, Catholicism, and good education, I know you will support this plan." 
JAMES P. SWIFT: 
".. . Wc all know that ever)- school needs financial support today. Notre Dame is in the same boat, but maybe it is a little farther down in the hold of the boat than some such as Illinois and Har\-ard. Every­man here tonight is certainly a Notre Dame fan. The ver>- fact that you are here il­lustrates that you are appreciative of what Notre Dame has meant, not only to Cathol­icism but also to Americanism. The prin­ciples upon which our nation, of which we are so proud, was founded and the prin­ciples upon which this nation has pro­gressed to that height in the history of na­tions, we must now preser\-e because, my friends, if we don't preser\'e now, and I mean NOW, the principles of Americanism that are fostered and propagated at the Universit>' of Notre Dame, then the future of civilization is indeed dark. 
"Now this organization that Harr>- Hogan has dreamed up is an organization that em­phasizes and encompasses the active support and participation of those of us who by ac­cident of birth or by some other accident were fortunate enough to be subjected to the kind of training that Notre Dame has put out for 105 years and that Notre Dame must continue to put out for many, many years in the future. 

A Spiritual Education 

"Notre Dame has five colleges. The Uni­versit)- of Texas has perhaps 20. I wouldn't attempt to say what the University of Texas gets in dollars and cents, all from your tax contributions and mine. Notre Dame gets nothing from tax contributions. She started 105 years ago with about $105.00. She has grown to that point where today Notre Dame impresses upon this nation a kind of training and influence which I think is un­equaled in the entire educational system of the nation. She has some 50 great build­ings on her campus. She has a faculty that today is about 75 per cent laymen. On the value of the dollar today that means money. When Scig Scoggins and I were up there in '24 about 75 per cent of the faculty and administration were priests and brothers. We had about 2,000 students then. There are about 5,000 today, and the cost of admin­istering a universit>- of 5,000 students as against 2,000 in my day has gone up. If that school is to go on, if she is to hold her place in the world of higher education, she has got to have financial support which she can't get from the ordinary operations of that school. If we look back, we know that we paid only about tivo-thirds in dol­lars and cents of what it cost the University to give us what they gave us. That is not true only of Notre Dame but of practically every principal institution in this country. Notre Dame has one thing, I think, which distinguishes it from many of the institu­tions of higher education in this country, and that is that Notre Dame makes avail­able to any student who goes there an edu­cation of the whole man. They don't edu­cate him only in the science of engineering, in arts and letters, in law, or in any of the other courses that they give, but they give that boy an education in spiritual things. If you will stop to think of it, there are few institutions that think of the education on the spiritual side of things. 
"We have had in less than 30 years two tremendous world wars involving the entire universe, ruining thousands and thousands of homes, killing thousands and thousands of men, including the flov.-cr of our youth. 
Notre Dame impresses upon fhis nafton . . . an influence unequalled in the entire educational system.— Foundation Gov. James P. Swift. 
We . . . train a man supremely to one thing—f)is moral responsibility. —f?e/. Robert H. Sweeney, cs.c. 
We know where that failure was. We know that somewhere along the line there was a failure to develop the spiritual side, the spiritual aspect of this life, and we have won those two wars, perhaps through luck. But now we have to devote our unbending and our entire energies to the winning of the peace, and the peace can only be won with the return to the spiritual side of life. I tell you, my friends, that Notre Dame is the leader in that aspect of education, and therefore she is entitled to your support and ^ to my support, to whatever extent it may ' be, not only a financial support but a spir­itual support. If you can do something to foster the principles that Notre Dame fos­tered in you when you were a student there and fostered in you when you first became attracted to Notre Dame and became a member of the family, then you may have accomplished more for the advancement and preservation of the type of civilization you want than the fellow who gives to Notre Dame $1,000,000. Our alumni of 14,000 people will not be able to produce enough to give the foundation that Notre Dame needs for her advancement, but we know that we have in the^e 14,000 people and their friends the greatest force of salesmen in the world. If we feel that Notre Dame is worth it, it is our obligation to go out among our friends and do what we can for furtherance of that education and to get the right kind of boy in the school so that he may assume the responsibilities of leader­ship...." «) 
BEV. BOBERT H. SWEENEY: 
"After the lovely little talk which was given to you by Mr. Strake, I want to ex­press publicly the appreciation for the work that Mr. Strake has done. I should like to express my appreciation of what he has done for the University of Notre Dame. I was impressed by the orator>- of Mr. Swift and felt that it was not really necessary for me to carry on in an oratorical role. 
"There is no need for me to tell you how Notre Dame is known. It is known through­out the country, and it is a unique institu­tion because it is a national institution. There are boys there from every single part of the country. That is true by policy be­cause we want them, and we have them from 40 foreign nations. We think that turning out these men that we are trying to do a service not only to Christ or the Catho-^v lic Church, but we are really trj-ing to do'^' a service to the welfare of this country be­cause we think that we have the facilities 
^ and because wc can educate them to spe­cialty in science, engineering, commerce, for­eign trade, history, and the other subjects that we have. We think that the special knowledge they get and the sending them • out to every part of the country is doing a service. We are graduating more than 1,000 a year, and we believe that we are doing something worthwhile for this coun­try. I suppose it is no mystery that when Mr. Hogan registered in 1900 in the law school, there was, I suppose, not one person in 100,000 thought they would see the day come when Notre Dame would march out on a football field against Harvard and Yale. It may be that there may not be one person in 1,000 who would believe that Notre Dame would be doing much 50 years from now to influence the economic thought of the United States as other colleges do now. There is a spirit at Notre Dame, or you can tag it with any name you wish, but it is a force which underlies everything that Notre Dame is doing and has done for the last 106 years. 
^ $500,000 Spent on Research 
"Notre Dame has more than 50 major buildings on its campus and does not have to bow to any college in the country today in the work that it is doing in its chemical research, germ-free technique, bacteriolog)-, or supremely in its research in the history of our civilization and in the elements that make up the civilization that we claim as ours. We have spent $500,000 on research. It has not been duplicated anpvhcre in the world, a research that underlies our .'Amer­ican way of living. Notre Dame carries on research which is basic, which is fundamen­tal, which has never got diverted but which always has had in mind that there are cer­tain forces which have now been unleashed by research in science and which we had better train men to control. Notre Dame feels that a college is not doing its job if it turns out only a well educated young man. I venture to say that there is not one col-
MLi lege in 50 which is turning out a well edu­catcd graduate with a sense of moral dutj­that goes with his education. He has an obligation to his community toward leader­ship, to his nation to shape policies in a way which will prevent the world from de­stroying itself, as it is able to do that. In bacteriology laboratories, we have developed in the field of bacteriological warfare the means by which we could wipe out the population of Texas within the space of probably three weeks. The entire Pacific Coast could be wiped out in about two weeks. This a horrible kind of power. For­tunately, the research that is going on has been entirely sponsored by the United States Navj'. God knows we had better have men who understand their responsibilities in get­ting a weapon into their hands that will wipe out human population. In atomic energy, the limits of which have not been attained, there is power to destroy millions of people in one instant. We feel that re­sponsibility indeed. 
"• "In the course of the last few years, we 
have changed our curriculum to train a man supremely to one thing — his moral respon­sibility. Notre Dame may not be doing any more than some other colleges. In our own laboratories at Notre Dame we have spent money at a cost which is beyond our real power to pay to develop knowledge which will be a real service to htmiankind. To mention one example alone, in the labora­tories of bacteriology in which Notre Dame has stood out in the course of the last 15 years, we have spent $100,000 and the re­search technicians have developed cancerous tissue in animals which were completely free of germs and virus infection. If you can develop cancerous tissue without any infec­tion or germs and can check everything that animal has had to eat, drink, etc. and in checking that, you have discovered some­thing in your diet has caused cancerous tissue, the implication is that you are on the edge of the discover}- of cancer, at least in some form. If you know what causes it, eventually you will discover what will pre­vent it. This is only one example of re­search at Notre Dame which has been fun­damental research. The point is not to cure it but prevent it. This discovery may prob­ably be one of the most important in the last 75 years. There are scientific develop­ments there because Notre Dame has clung to principles of sticking to basic things. Some amazing developments have occurred within the last few years through sticking 
to fundamentals. 
N.D. Means More Than Athletics 

"Notre Dame believes that it will get its share of interest and support if it deserves it. It does not claim any more than it de­scries. Whatever it has been doing, what­ever that is worth, Notre Dame feels it will get support proportionately. We want people outside to know that the University is engaged in a great deal more than merely athletic contests. Basketball, football, and the other sports are an" integral part, but they are not the purpose for which we exist, and they are not the prime purpose for which we operate. In coach Frank Leahy I believe we have a very well balanced ath­letic director who has an understanding that Notre Dame means more than national championships in football. What he is aim­ing at is national championships in the things that are influencing this country and the things that are influencing scientific re­search and powers that have been developed and have to be controlled and which will never be controlled until we convince men that responsibility arises, that men have rights, and rights come from Almighty God, and that those rights are things which are sacred and which have to be respected and which have to be taken into consideration in every individual thing that we do. It is no surprise and it is not to be wondered at that Notre Dame is 100 per cent anti-Com­munist. It is only by indirection that Notre Dame is anti-Communist. We are pro-God and as a result of what we are for, it hap­pens that we are against those things which are against what we are for. We are for an understanding of man's moral position. We are for religious principle and it should be the guide. It should be the controlling in­
terest which dictates and governs man's life We are for the things that made our way of living, which have been declared in our constitution, and which were only borrowed from ancient Catholic principles and came into our Declaration of Independence. We are for them because they were always right. We are for things which have made the greatness of America. We are for these things and we teach them. 
Most Expand Fadlities 

"Notre Dame at the present time, as you may know, has an enrollment of some 4,700 students. Actually, Notre Dame is built to accommodate only about 3,500 students. We are unable to recede from our present en­rollment of 4,700, and we believe that if we can educate 1,000 men a year wc are doing that much more good for the United States. We are fixing our enrollment at ap­proximately 4,500 boys. We want to tale boys from all over the United States who have a desire to go to Notre Dame. In order to accommodate those boys adequately we need more of everything. We believe that if what Notre Dame has been doing has been worthwhile that we will get what we need. We have been operating on the be­lief that God has protected Notre Dame and that the Blessed Virgin has been guid­ing Notre Dame. It goes beyond anything that human endeavor can explain. We be­lieve in doing good and developing so that 50 years from today, political thinking in the United States will be influenced by Notre Dame as it has been by Yale Univer­sity, and legal thinking as it has by Harvard, and educational thinking as it has been in the last 25 or 30 years by Columbia in New York. We believe that with the continuing protection of the Virgin Mary that Notre Dame can do it. 
Must Orercome Many Difficulties 

"To meet our present needs. Father Cav­anaugh, who is a worthy successor of the men who have gone before him in the Uni­versity, along with Mr. Harry Hogan, has devised the idea of the Notre Dame Foun­dation. More than 200 cities throughout the country have chairmanships. We be­lieve that what Notre Dame is entitled to it will get with faith, and with hope that is the position we take. We show the prob­lem that faces us, what are the tremendous possibilities that will result, and on that we are resting our faith. We are not at­tempting to produce immediate results. Notre Dame hopes that it will be in opera­tion 1,000 years from today. There is no tremendous particular hurry. We don't ex­pect immediate results, but we are hopeful that because Notre Dame has accomplished unique things, because it is a national col­lege, because there are gathered there more than 500 specialists, because there has been gathered there a student body from every part of the country from the best qualified boys of the land, and because there has been a wholesomeness and worthwhileness in the Notre Dame Product, we do believe that Notre Dame will get what it deserves. It is that which is in keeping with the destmy that stands before us." 
SUMMER SCHOOL is getting more and more thought as the second semester nears the halfway mark. According to the Rev. Howard Kenna, c.s.c, director of studies, registration for the summer session will be held June 21 and 22; classes will begin June 23 and continue for eight weeks. Degrees will be conferred August 13. 
Courses during the tivent>-si.\th summer session arc designed to meet the needs of four groups: (1) undergraduates who wish to earn e.vtra credits or to make up defi­ciencies; (2) teachers who wish to prepare themselves for better work or to obtain higher rating from state boards of educa­tion; (3) students who want to work for an advanced degree in the graduate school, and 
(4) veterans who want to complete their college work in shorter time. 
SCHOLABLY Dr. Albert Pescetto has joined the faculty as assistant professor of Modem Languages. Last year he was Russian translator for the United Na­tions. He lias been a professor in Italy, Spain, and Greece. 
STATUES, of wood and of marble, are earning a reputation for the Rev. Anthony Lauck, c.s.c, '42, Washington, D. C, artist. He has been named as one of the five out­standing artists in Washington, according to word received here. His works will be ex­hibited at the 143rd -Annual Exhibition of 
'Painting and Sculpture at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in Hartford, Conn. 
CANADIAN SCIENTISTS, by devoting themselves to pure research in atomic energy, are giving the world a lesson in peace, said Dr. Milton Burton, professor of chemistry, when he returned from a visit to the Canadian Atomic Energy Project at Chalk River, Ontario. Dr. Burton explained that by avoiding the military problems associated with atomic 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

'7Ae 

UNIVERSITY 
By Edward A. Fischer, '37 

energy, the Canadians are free to con­centrate on fundamentals. 
AC.'UJEMIC REQUIREMENTS were tightened another notch with the announce­ment that "an undergraduate student who fails to obtain a qualitative average of 77 per cent at any time after his third semes­ter at the University will be placed on pro­bation." This 77 general average is required for a student to graduate from Notre Dame and is also necessary for participation in in­tercollegiate athletics. A passing grade at Notre Dame is 70 per cent. 
ADVANCED COURSES in the CathoUc religion will be introduced by the Graduate School at the summer session* Students following the program may re­ceive the Master of Arts or Master of Science in Education degrees. Aim of the program is threefold: (I) to present basic courses in the principles and methods in the study of Christian Tradi­tion, the Sacred Scriptures and Theol­ogy; (2) to apply these principles and methods to the study of certain periods of Tradition, selected books of Socred 
George Sulli­van, president of the Senior Class, presents the American flag to Bev. John Murphy. 
C.S.C. vice-president ot the onnual Washington Day flag exercises. 



TODAY 
Scripture, and various subjects of Catho­lic Doctrine, and (3) to give the student as broad a coverage as possible of the content of Christian Doctrine without jeopardizing the quality of scholarship required for graduate work. 
TRADITION was upheld on Washing­ton's Birthday when the seniors presented the University with an American flag. This annual event was begun in 1896. The presentation was made by George A. Sul­livan, president of the senior class, to the Rev. John H. Murphy, c.s.c, vice-president of Notre Dame. 
TWO NEW PBOjECTS have been in­troduced by the Department of loiurnal­ism: (1) a' weekly experimental news­poper, (2) a series of movies of his­torical and cultural nature. 
PREMIER Alcide De Gasperi of Italy gave Notre Dame's Italian club a pleasant surprise when he answered the telegram which the organization had sent congrat­ulating him on the success of his govern­ment. He said: "I thank you profoundly for your comforting expression of friendship and for your cordial good wishes and I am pleased to offer in return my most friendly greetings and good wishes to the Italian club of the illustrious University of Notre Dame." 
AN ALUMNUS, Edward W. Mehren. of Beverly Hills. Calii, spoke to several commerce classes on the advantages of adopting in-between coins, such as 2'/i, 714 and 12^-cent pieces. Because there are no such coins, Mr. Mehren ex­plained, billions of dollars are being lifted annually from consumers' pockets. 
A SERIES of lectures was delivered here by Dr. Anton C. Pegis, president of the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies of Toronto, and probably the most eminent historian of mediaeval philosophy on this continent. 
A FULL-TIME official tmiversity pho­tographer has recently been added to the stafL He is Wallace M. Kunlcle. who has been in the business for 11 years. Dark room facilities are being expanded and a course in photography may be of­fered by the Department of Fine Arts. 
HOCKNE GRAVE CEREMONY —A sheet of snow blankets those who gathered at Knute Rockne's grave for the aimual memorial ceremonies. 
PEOPLE of Irish descent in the United States are becoming a "soft people in the land of plent)-," the Rev. Francis P. Cav­anaugh, c.s.c, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, said at a St. Patrick's Day Ob­servance in Flint, Mich. 
"We frequently fail to rear sufficient chil­dren even to reproduce ourselves," the Notre Dame dean stressed. "We argue in defense of securing sufficiency, or the danger of child bearing to health, or our inability to furnish children the proper educational advantage. The result is that in many places, notably New England, the Irish are being replaced just as the Pilgrim was re­placed when he too lost his vigor." 
THE COMMUNIST MANIFESTO is a religious document. It is the creed of absolute secularism said Dr. Waldemar 
g^ Gurian. editor of the REVIEW OF POLI­
9 TICS and professor of political science, in an article in the spring issue of the DUBLIN REVIEW. 
"The lasting importance of the Mani­festo consists in the fact that it has for­mulated a general sociological trend and it has made conscious a fundamen­tal attitude which has survived all de­feats in practical politics and changes in political demands," Dr. Gurian wrote. "The Conununist Manifesto is the i>ow­erfully formulated creed of a secular religion, of a political and social athe­ism, of o mythology presented as science." 
AS RUMORS OF WAR chased each other around the campus, members of the Political Science and History Departments were asked their opinions on the subject. 
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew: "In the near future there are too many deterrents for 
^ Russia and the U.S. to go to war." 
W' Matthew A. Fitzsimons: "I do not be­lieve the Russians want war right now. They may, however, overplay their danger­ous game." 
William O. Shanahan: "The chief men­ace is war hysteria itself, which only plays into the hands of the Communists." 
Robert D. Brown: "Too many alarmists have shown a willingness to turn toward the sensational without the facts to back them up." 
A SIX-DAY Easter tour of Washing­ton, D. C. was under the direction of Dr. Paul Bartholomew, professor of Po­litical Science. The total expense of $76 provided Notre Dame and S t Mary's students with everything from a view of Congress in action to Easter Sunday Mass at Catholic University. 
•An outstanding eight-week program of summer sports and recreational activities will be offered Catholic youth from June 20 to Aug. 14 at the Notre Dame Boys' Camp, on Bankson Lake at Lawton, Mich., which is conducted and staffed by the Brothers of Holy Cross. 
The camp, placed under the patronage of the Blessed Virgin, is conducted in a Catholic atmosphere, with morning prayer and Mass preceding each day's activities and evening prayer concluding each day. The camp is open to Catholic youth from 10 to 14 in age. 
All activities of the Notre Dame Camp are supervised by Brothers of Holy Cross. The camp personnel includes a camp direc­tor, chaplain, activity coordinator, a coun­selor for every eight or nine boys, an enter­tainment organizer, craft instructors, a resi­dent nurse, an attending physician, and a maintenance staff. 
Boys will be accepted at the camp only on the opening dates of the four periods: June 
20, July 4, July 18 and Aug. 1. Further information can be obtained by writing be­fore June 10, to: Camp Director, Brothen of Holy Cross, Notre Dame, Ind., or after June 10 to Camp Director, Notre Dame Camp, Lawton, Mich. 
f oundofioa Leocfers 
VhH Ma»Y CHh* 

The smoothly-functioning Foundation Program is well started on what promises to be a great year. But in order to keep the Program moving steadily towards its objec­
• tive, a great deal of planning and field work is required of city chairmen and their com­mittees, state governors, and representatives of the Foundation and Alumni Association at Notre Dame. ­
Just how much is required is shown to some extent by the numerous trips the na­tional representatives alone made in March and will make in April. 
Harry G. Hogan, chairman of the Foun­dation and president of the Alumni Ano­ciation, and Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, cs.c., spoke at meetings in Dallas and Houston, Tex., early in March. James £. Armstrong^ Alumni Secretary, met with the New Yoric Club Board of Governors and the Founda­tion City Conunittee on March-16 and 17. On March 18 he was in Scranton, F^, with Father Sweeney for a noon meeting with the Alumni Club and Committee for the Scran­ton-Wilkes-Barre area. That evening both were meeting with du b and Foundation officers in Philadelphia. 
On March 16 Father Sweeney, met with the Harrisburg Committee, and on the 17th was one of the principal speakers at the famous St Patrick's Day dinner in Scranton. Mr. Hogan met with the Memphis Com­mittee on March 22. 
John Cackley, Foundation project direc­tor, was in Sandusky, Ohio, on March 1; Cleveland on March 2; Youngstown, O., on March 3; Pittsburgh March 4; Akron, Ohio, on March 5 and 6; and Canton on March 6. 
In April Universal Notre Dame Night will be of prime importance. At the "key" observance in Philadelphia, Father John J. Cavanaugh, cs.c. Dean Clarence Manion and Mr. Hogan will speak, while Father Sweeney will speak at the New York dinner. He will also speak at the deferred Univer­sal Night program of the Notre Dame Club in Binghamton, N. Y., on April 7, which will pay special tribute to Rev. Joseph Toomey, director of the National Catholic Charities. Mr. Hogan and Mr. Armstrong will also be at the diimer. The three will confer with state governors and city chair­men at a regional Foundation meeting in St. Paul, Minn., and will attend the de­ferred Universal N.D. Night meeting of the Twin Cities Club on April 12. 
John Cackley is scheduled to appear at the Richmond, Va., diimer on April 5; on April 7 he will meet with the Washington, 
D. C , City Committee; and on April 8 with the Baltimore Foundation Committee. 
WE'D LIKE TO KNOW — 
Do You Like Alumni Directories? 
We're planning an alumni director)', to be published this year. Such a director)- will be divided up in several ways: 
1.
 Geographically, according to mailing addresses 

2.
 Alphabetically 

3.
 By classes 

4.
 By occupations 


It's ob\nous that such a director)- would scr\e innumerable uses. Here are a few: 
The geographical listing would be the backbone of the Clubs and the Foundation Cit)- Committees. It would help those within an area to become better acquainted with each other. And it would be of large benefit to those traveling. 
The alphabetical listing would enable you to find out fast whatever became of old Joe Schmoe who was in Badin with you in 1929. 
The class section would be more and more useful, especially as the reunion classes become bigger. 
An occupational section — even though tough to get lined up — would be a natural in lots of ways, especially in the mutual pa­tronage of N.D. men in the professions and business and in the promotion of more and better job placement. 
The aliunni directory- would be useful — no doubt about it. 
But it would also be a slightly terrific job to handle. When you have around 16,000 names to work on, in four different classifi­cations, you're really up against quite a sizable assignment. We've done a lot of in­vestigating, even checked with some of the pro director)'-publishing outfits, and we know what the obstacles are. 
And even then the directory- might be con­siderably out-of-date in a year — much more so in two years. 
And then there's the matter of cost, .-^ny of you who deal in printing and binding these days know that the publishing costs are just about out of this world, assuming you can get a printer and binder to take on your job. 
All of which adds up to the fact that a director)- would be a magnificent thing to have. 
But it would also mean a lot of costly work here and would probably have to be sold to alumni at a fairly sizable sum. 
What we'd like to know is — how many of you are in favor of the project in spite of the circumstances? We'd like to get an expression, a showing of hands, a few hun­dred words or something, one way or an­other, from you. 
Let's hear from you. Use the gas bill, a theater ticket or Johnny's arithmetic paper for tomorrow, but please let us have your comment. 
Thanks. 
A general reunion of all Notre Dame lawyers is planned for the June Commencement, June 4, 5 and 6, according to the announcement of Clarence E. "Pat" Manion. dean of the Law School, just as this issue of the ALUMNUS was ready for the press. Details of the reunion will follow, in the May ALUMNUS and otherwise. 
News of the reunion followed in­formal discussions held at the Uni­versity on Saturday, March 13, by Joseph F. Deeb, Grand Rapids, Mich., Francis Jones, and Aaron H. Huguenard, South Bend, Austin C. Gildea, Elkhart, Ind., Patrick J. Fisher, Indianapolis, and Robert Ir­miger, Cliicago. These men. all Notre Dame attorneys, talked with Dean Manion. William B. Jones, Washington, D. C, Ray T. Miller, Cleveland, John E, Cassidy, Peoria, ni., and Joseph B. McGlynn, East St. Louis, HI., were later brought into plans for the June gathering. 


Prof. Aekermann Leaves Half of Estate to N, D. 

Professor Francis X. .\ckermann, who in life gave more than 50 years to the ser\'ice of Notre Dame as a professor of mechan­ical drawing, left §3,000, half of his modest life savings, to the Congregation of Holy 
PROF. ACKERMANN 

Cross at his death recently. The remain­ing half of his estate was left to relatives. 
Two-thirds of Professor Ackermann's be­quest to the Congregation is to be used as a trust fund for the education of young men for the priesthood. The other ,$1,000 was designated for Masses to be offered for him at Notre Dame. 
Professor Aekermann died in Dubuque, la., where he had been a resident of St. An­thony's Home since his retirement from Notre Dame in 1938. 
Two N. D. Men Assure City Good Government^ 
Indianapolis, like ever)- city and town in which Notre Dame men work and live, is reaping the benefit of the moral and Christian leadership that the University of Our Lady inculcates in its students. Since two Notre Dame graduates assumed promi­nent public offices in Indianapolis racketeers have found "fi.\ing" in city politics an ex­tremely difficult task. 
AL FEENEY 

Al Fceney, '14, assumed office as mayor on Jan. 1, and shortly aftcnvards appointed another Notre Dame alumnus, Lcroy J. Reach, '08, a prominent businessman, presi­dent of the Indianapolis Board of Public Safet)-. 
One of Mr. Reach's first public acts was to reject a lucrative offer to become a "silent partner" in a proposed gambling house. He voluntarily quit the profitable selling of fruits and vegetables to city-operated Gcn-^>) eral Hospital. 
The two Notre Dame men are going all out to make certain that gambling interests and racketeers in Indianapolis do not op­erate. -As Mr. Reach puts it, he feels that it would be morally, as well as legally, a bad practice to give the "go sign" to these fac­tions. Such an attitude indicates that the city government is certain to be run with moral responsibility in mind. 
The children of Indianapolis, too, were assured of a competent recreation program with the appointment of Mrs. .'\gnes P. Con­nor, mother of two Notre Dame men, as the first woman president of the Indianapolis City Park Board. 
Mrs. Connor, whose sons are Nicholas Connor, ex '36, and Lawrence Connor, '48, was elected president by board members after she had been appointed to the board by Mayor Feeney. She is the mother of four^-~j other children. 1 / 
Left to right: Joseph D. DeMuro, '48, John N. Cackley. Jr.. '37, and Herman A. Zitt, '48 
Add Zitf. DeMuro to Foundation Staff 
Watching the pressure rise toward a $1,000,000 goal for 1948 are three alumni staff members of the Notre Dame Foundation campus office. They are Joseph D. DeMuro, '48, John N. Cackley, Jr., '37, and Herman A. Zitt, '48. 
All incoming gifts arc channeled through the Statistical Department, which is headed by Zitt. Herman, who received his Com­merce degree last semester and is from St. Louis, Mo., has charge of computing con­tributor data from approximately 8,000 alumni and friends who gave to Notre Dame in 1947. Fifty per cent of the gifts re­ceived thus far this year have come from people who did not subscribe to the Notre Dame Foundation in '47. The rate of giv­ing is 27 per cent higher than at this same time twelve months ago. 

DeMuro is the most recent addition to the campus staff. After completing his un­dcigraduate work in the College of Com­merce at the end of Januar)', Joe took a short vacation at his home in Muskegon, Mich., and has been with the Foundation since March 8. He will assist Zitt in the herculean task of recording thousands of donations from alumni and friends of the University during the ensuing months. 
Cackley handles various administrative details involving 206 City Chairmen, and 77 City Committees which have been formed up to now. He has also been con­tacting Foundation personnel and alumni clubs in the field. Cackley was with the Trcasurj- Department, in Charleston, W. Va., prior to accepting a position on the Foundation staff last November. 
Plan New Boys Town As Rockne Memorial 
A town for underprivileged boys as a living memorial to Knute Rockne is being co-sponsored by the Diocese of San Diego, Cal., and the San Bernardino industrialist, Emmet J. Culligan, brother of Dr. John M. CuUigan, '15. 
Patterned after Father Flanagan's Boys Town, Neb., it will be known as Rockneville. Construction of the multi-million dollar project at San Bernardino will begin early next year. When it opens in 1949 it will have accommodations for several hundred boys of all races and religious creeds. Even­tually the town will be expanded to take care of 1,000, with schooling from elemen­tar)- grades through two years of college. 
"Rockneville," Mr. Culligan said, "will give homeless boys from all over the country a chance to develop their minds and bodies in academic studies and manual training. Wc also hope it will give them the kind of training for leadership that Knute Rockne instilled in his great Notre Dame football teams." 
Mr. Culligan, who subscribed $50,000 to launch the building fund, explained that he had long wanted an opportunity to help boys get the kind of inspirational leadership Rockne was famous for. His brother-in-law, the late Rep. Vincent Harrington, '25, of Iowa, was a teammate of the famous Four Horsemen, and his brother also played for the Irish. 
Mr. Culligan, an inventor and president of a nation-wide water-softening sen-ice, has assigned patent rights from recent inven­tions to a charitable trust, with Rockneville as the main recipient. The project has been approved by Rockne's widow and Notre Dame. 
Fund Returns Are Stimulating 

As this issue of the ALUMNUS goes to press, returns are just beginning to come in on the first mailing piece of the Sixth Annual Alumni Fund. 
The Foundation officers are particularly encouraged in the first returns by the evi­dence of the deepening roots of the basic principles of the Foundation that were in­troduced into the Fund this year. 
For example, from the first 300 returns, forty-six alumni have made early con­tributions and have indicated additional contributions throughout the year (ranging • from $1 to $25 monthly, and by other amounts and periods). 
Twenty-nine alumni have indicated 

that they will undertake to get a sufficient 
amount of money during the year to com­
plete the $200 suggested individual goal. 
And thirty-six alumni have filled out the 

space in the return envelope for suggesting 
prospects fropi non-alumni friends, so that 
more than seventy-five new friends have 
been added to the mailing list. 
These are indicative of progress. Uni­

form participation and cooperation through­
out the year on this same scale vn\l advance 
the Foundation and the Sixth Annual Fund 
substantially, and move Notre Dame much 
nearer its objectives. 
Prof. Gurian Proposes S-Point Peace Program 
"We have to behave as if war with Soviet Russia were quickly possible, but at the same time realize it can be avoided," Dr. Waldemar Gurian, University of Notre Dame political science professor and author­ity on Soviet Russia, said in a special in­ten'iew. 
Dr. Gurian, who is editor of the "Review of Politics," suggested a five-point program for the halting of Soviet Russian post-war policy which, he says, is based upon "dis­trust and expansionism." 
The Russian-bom Notre Dame educator called for the adoption of these five points as one means of ending the Communist drive to conquer the world: 
1.
 It is meaningless to wait until Russia strikes again. Backing of Finland ought to be undertaken in order to give courage to the north European countries. 

2.
 A policy which would abandon the fiction of a common ground with Soviet Russia in the present United Nations. 

3.
 Reduction of diplomatic relations with SoWet Russia to a bare minimum. 

4.
 Continue to work for the union and recover)- of the countries outside the Soviet sphere of influence, an undertaking requir­ing a "diplomatic art of the highest wis­dom." Included in this consideration is, 

5.
 Quick passage of the Marshall Plan for psychological as well as economic rea­sons. It will help to formulate a European bloc opposing Soviet expansionism. 


»<ieatrt!WMiM>aa»!y:j»wisaw»3iBii<a»»OT.»v«;^^ 

'^iifinc^ ^iofe^i and the QaldeK ^wne 
Volume 26, No. 2, April, 1948 



^Ue Jii^e awi ^liftel -oj^ 
ai i&ld to-Q'l^ Jlaifim, 
^ 
u---4*1 
•J.iVl ">« 

0 A 
Children and the problems of married life are an integral part of the new Notre Dame that is centered in Vetville, the settle­ment of old Army barracks con­verted info comfortable three-room apartments on the eastern fringe of the campus. 

This is all about us kids over here in Vet­ville. There are a mess of us — about 140 1 think. They keep coming in so fast I can't keep count. All around — kids! kids! 0 kids. I don't know why that stork keeps coming back here all the time. He must 
'49, li^ (lai^m&nd 2a ^o^u^e THE AUTHOR —Bom in Velville. len­month-old Raymond La Forge is a real Notre Dame native, something that was a phenomenon before these post-war times. 
^ei^^t^^:^^ 
sV, 

::feiim •J'^ ^m^2^: :^*='^S 
Reprinted from the SCHOLASTIC football games every fall, Thev never take me anvwav. 
But Mom's the one that has it tough around here. She's got to put up with me all day long. She docs a pretty good job like this place though, because a lot of fami­of it at that. Anyway Mom keeps our little lies around here have two or three. That's place over here in pretty good shape when 
a good break for us because we've got a I'm not messing it up. These housing units pretty nice deal around here. 

arc really something. Some of the kids around here that have been around' more 
Take me for instance. 

than I have tell me they top anythiilg in Pop (my mother calls him Ray) works the country. over in the Chem lab fooling around with a 
lot of numbers and mi.xing a lot of stuff I've got a lot of room to crawl around in together that smells like anything. He's and a big room to myself and what more pretty dumb from what I hear. Most of could a 10-month-old ask for? It's not the 
the kids' fathers around here get out in four Ritz, but from what I hear off the grapevine years. Pop's been here forever according to some of those bachelors over on campus are Mom. He's tning to get a lot of Pft's or a little crowded themselves, and some guy Pfc's or Phd's or something strung behind pulls a switch on them at 11 o'clock and his name. Personally I think it's about time there are a lot of bells ringing all over the he got out and worked instead of fussing place so I'll stay where I am. I could do around here just to get to see a couple of a lot worse. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

there so I crawled out of the crib. They seemed to be talking to the Lord and asking His Mother for something. Having just come from Up There I knew they'd get it. I found out later they call this a rosary and they do it every week in some unit in the row. Or sometimes they go over to a chapel on campus and renew the words and prom­ises that brought all the Moms and Pops together and brought all us kids down here. There's a nice, young priest from across the road who's over here a lot, too. They call him a chaplain and he's pretty important in things around here. 
Then there are nights when Mom and Pop go out and then — Heaven help me! Now I don't mind Mom and Pop going out every once in a while. They deser\'e it. But they always get some character from across the road on campus to come over and look after the house or something. .At least he never looks after me. I don't think he ever knows I'm here till I start yelling. Then he goes to pieces; one night I was really hol­lering; I had good cause too. My well, 
you know. This character came in and just stood there. I guess he didn't know what to do. What a Pop he's going to make! He just kept standing there looking horrified and mumbling something about being sorry until Mom and Pop came home and Mom changed me. What a goof! I wish they'd hire some guy with experience with . . . well, you know. 
Satisfying Days 

But that's the way it goes over here, up and down, wet and dry. Ever>-one has their tough days and nights. But I'm satisfied — we all are. We've got a swell collection of Moms and Pops and they're all working to­gether for the same thing. I guess that's the only way because everything's going swell here. Sometimes it's a dance in the rec hall or a farewell party for the Pops who are smart enough to get out and their wives get diplomas; sometimes everybody's in church getting us all blessed or just in a living room saying a rosarj- but we're always together over here. It's a nice life. 
MEAL TIME 

I'm not registered for any classes across the road at ND yet. I don't want to rush things. As it is Pop has me boning up on Chemistr>' already. That really fills up my schedule. I'm on the go all day long. 
I start early. I'm up about 5:30 or 6 really raring to go, but no one's ever around. I'm letting off steam and jumping around an awful long time before Pop staggers into my room. What a sight! Sometimes I wonder what Mom ever saw in him. Then I get a look at Mom in the morning and I guess it's a tie all around. 
They start feeding me right away. They're always feeding me. It just keeps going on all day long. They just keep stuffing some terrible mushy stuff down me all day. But the worst part of it is the act that goes with the food. Pop especially puts on a beaut of a show. Just because I won't make a pig out of myself he clowns around, makes stupid faces, and generally acts like a fool while Mom is waiting to jab a spoon­ful of stuff into my mouth if I laugh. I guess I'm supposed to laugh. It's hard though because Pop is really a pitiful sight. 
Footballs and Fathers 

Well, Pop usually leaves for the campus around 9 with Mom screaming at him that he'll be late and that some Dr. Price will chew his head off. He never does because Pop always comes home with his head on. When he's finally gone Mom sticks me in a pen and starts cleaning up the place. 
There are a lot of dumb toys lying around this pen I'm in. Ever)- time someone comes to the house they bring a toy and one's dumber than the other. .^11, of course, except the football. The football is Pop's special. He bought it himself. It seems I'm supposed to learn to do something with it. All the other kids have the same problem. They tell me all the fathers bring home footballs the first day we get here. It seems there is some guy named Leahy running loose around here who really goes for little kids that can do whatever you're supposed to with these footballs. Pop keeps saying 
something about scholarships and big games and touchdowns and Lujack. 1 don't know too much about this Lujack character but I wish something would happen to him. Every night when Pop comes home we play "Lu­jack." He hands me the ball and walks across the room and stands there waiting for something to happen. I guess this Lujack docs things with this football that makes ever>'body happy but I still haven't caught on. 
Vet Gazette Published 

In the afternoon Mom is usually at this typewriter banging away at some stuff for the Vet Gazette. That's the paper we have over here with all the latest scoops on Vet­
villc. It comes out every week and Pop gets all excited because he's never in it or Mom starts bawling because they left out her recipe. But everybody gets it and likes it because it's all about us. It's always starting a lot of projects and get-togethers. Last week Mom baked a lot of cakes and stuff for some big circus over on campus. Every-
STDDYTIME 

body did, at least all the women. The men just sniffed around and kept screaming about their "little women who sure can cook." It was a lot of fun and everybody was work­ing together as they always do over here. 
At night I really get hustled around. Fop busts in around 4:30 and starts fooling around with me. I let him because I figure he's been working hard all day at the lab and then again who's got a better right? We play "Lujack" or he tosses me up in the air or giggles at me and makes more faces and tries to get me to say something that sounds like "da da" or some nonsense. They feed me again complete with floor show and then Mom sticks me in bed after Pop goes crazy saying "nighty night" and grabbing my arm and waving it at himself. 
Most of the time I'm asleep in a big hurry because I've had a tough day. But sometimes I lay awake a long time — mush nerves! One night I was having a terrible time drop­ping off. The door was open to the living room and there were a lot of people in 
PACING TIME 

CONSIDER BEQUEST INSUBANCE 
Prompted by a suggestion oi Paul 
D. Hoeifler, '25. the Notre Dame Foundation is giving special consid­eration to the possibilities of be­quest insurance in connection with its fund-raising activities. According to present plans, a group of alumni will gather at the University in April to discuss with Foundation heads the advantages of such an instir­ance program. 
Bequest life insurance, it is pointed out, has numerous advan­tages as compared with bequests by wills. In insurance, lor instance, there is no estate shrinkage, and there is no possibility of the bequest being contested. In addition, life in­surance bequests can readily be created out oi earned income; and even those in moderate circum­stances ore enabled to make size­able bequests. 
Without exceptional effort or spe­cial organization, the Foundation committee in Fort Wayne. Ind.. has recently demonstrated the possibili­ties of bequest insurance. Three policies, for $10,000. for $4,000 and for $2,000 have been written there with the University as the bene­ficiary. 
>lth/etfcs 
l^Continued from page 7] 

Hibbing, Minn., Tom Conley, of West De Pere, Wi.':.. Joe Flood, of Rochester, N. Y.. 
and Paul Hudak, of Joliet, 111. 
Rev. George L. Holderith, c.s.c, coach of the Notre Dame golfers, said that a series of intrasquad matches shortly after the Easter vacation will determine the six-man squad to represent Notre Dame. 
TENNIS 

Pre-scason hopes for a second successive undefeated season for the Notre Dame ten­nis team appear dim as Coach Walter Lang­ford sets about the task of replacing such outstanding monogram winners as Charles Samson and Ed Caparo of South Bend and Bill TuUy, of BronxviUe, N. Y. 
Preparing for the season opener against Wisconsin on April 24, the Irish netters have an excellent nucleus around which to build an outstanding team, but the primary concern of Coach Langford is the develop­ment of additional netters to provide depth for his team. 
Monogram winners who are available for competition this season include Jim and Jerry Evert, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; Bob David, of Chicago; Joe Brown, of Rochester, 
N. Y.; and Phil Lyons, of Clovis, N. M. 
I'his quintet proWdes a better than average '^ ) nucleus for a good Irish team, but Coach .* ' Langford points to a tough schedule over '•- which the Notre Dame courtmen must hur-
Monogram Club Sponsors Father O'Donnell Memorial 
In early March of this year, national wire services carried to daily newspapers everj^vhere the announcement of the Na­tional Monogram Club's sponsorship of the Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell Memorial Trophy, to be awarded annually to the national col­legiate championship football team as de­cided by the Associated Press poll. 
Most Notre Dame men so learned of the latest activity of the National Monogram Club, made up of alumni monogram men. It has been in existence since 1916, when Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, c.s.c, was elected the first president of the campus Monogram Club. But activity in the national organ­ization in recent years had slowed to a standstill and, to all practical purposes, was confined to the annual luncheon-meeting during Commencement week-end each year, when the present ofiicers — equipped with a program of activity demanded by mem­bers— were installed at the 1947 annual meeting. 
Club Paper Published 

These officers were: Joe Boland, '27, president; Bernie Crimmins, '42, vice-presi­dent; Stephen Ronay, '27, secretary-treasurer. 
The new program included publication of a club paper three times each year; regular meetings at times other than Commence­ment week-end; revision of the monogram lists to bring them up to date; some form of preferential treatment for monogram win­ners in securing tickets for athletic contests —to bring Notre Dame practices in this re­gard into greater conformity with current practices at similar universities throughout the land; and establishment of at least one major project to aid the University through the work of the Monogram Club. 
So far, all these objectives either have been attained or are being reached. To date, t^vo issues of the Monogram News have been printed and mailed to every monogram man whose name and address is in club files or alumni files. More than 200 corrections in club mailing lists have been made; and 750 names are now on that list. At the Army-Notre Dame football game of 1947 a lunch­eon-meeting was held on the campus, in the Vetville Recreation Building, attended by over 200 monogram men and their friends. Counting the gathering a huge success, members present voted to extend the prac­tice of holding Monogram Club luncheon-meetings before each of the four home 
die as the prime reason for caution over extreme optimism. 
Northwestern, Michigan and Michigan State are expected to provide the major ob­stacles along the tough schedule which also includes such outstanding teams as Purdue, Kentucky, DePaul, Western Michigan, Wis­consin and Navy. 
games scheduled in football for 1948. The University administration has lis­tened sympathetically to proposals for pref­erential ticket treatment for monogram win­ners at all athletic contests: a definite plan in this regard is now being formulated by the University and a committee of the Na­tional Monogram Club. 
And the Rev. J. Hugh O'Doimell Memo­rial Trophy has been established as the con­tinuing project for sponsorship by the alumni meinbers of the club. This trophy 
— a direct successor to the Rissman, Rockhe and Williams trophies—^will be offered for the next ten years to the teams winning na­tional collegiate football championships, as determined by the annual Associated Press poll. The team winning it three times in the ten-year span retires it. Smaller rep­licas of the trophy will be presented to each winning school for permanent possession; scrolls will be awarded each letter-winning member of the title teams annually; and a delegation of Notre Dame National Mono­gram Club members will personally present the trophy each year to the winning team of that season. 
To finance the project, it is estimated that a separate fund of $3,500 will be needed by the National Monogram Club. The club has already launched a drive to secure this amount from its members. All monogram winners who have not as yet been notified of this activity and who read of it here for the first time will find their contributions welcomed. 
Trophy Contribntiona Welcomed 

The club officers in charge of the drive for funds realize that many non-monogram winning alumni would like to share in per­petuating the memory of one of Notre Dame's greatest sons. Already, several large contributions by admirers and friends of Father O'Donnell have been received. Others, quite naturally, will be welcomed by officers and members of the National Monogram Club. Contributions may be sent to: Stephen Ronay, Secretary-Treas­urer, National Monogram Club, Box 446, Notre Dame, Ind. All checks should be made out to: National Monogram Club, University of Notre Dame. 
All monogram winners who read this article and who have not as yet received the Monogram News can get it by becoming members of the National Monogram Club. The dues are two dollars annually, sent to the above address. 
With this brief resume of the present status and recent activities of the National Monogram Club, it is hoped that this group can now take its place in that ocmpany of alimmi clubs making significant contribu­tions to the University.—^JOE BOLAND 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

e aium 
Engagements 
Miss Marian Jean Rice and ROBERT G. ROSE, '4!. 
MUs Ann Hunter Wright and JOHN R. FELTES, « '43. 
Miss Elizabeth Ann Boslcr and EUGENE F. KANE, '4J. 
Miss Patrida SuUiran and DAVID R. CONDON. '45. 
Miss Be\-eriy Weinkauf and FR.\NK WALERKO, '4J. 
Miss ^fa^sa^et Elizabctlx Wortbington and ED­WARD J. SULLIVAN, '42. 
Miss Betty Longcnecker and J. THOMAS TIM­MONS, Jr., ex '50. 
Miss Marie ElizabeUi Mulvey and WILLIAM G. WARD, ex '39. 
Miss Harriet .\nne Robb and HUGH KENNETH O'DONNELL, '40. 
Miss Beverly Elaine Gibnan and MELVIN .W. GELBER, '44. 
Miss Catherine Ellen Coughlin and JOHN W. ANHUT, '44. 
Miss Carol Kline [daughter of CL.-\RENCE J. "JAKE" KLINE. '21] and JOHN J. >L\RTIN. '44. 
Miss Lois Virginia Weith and LAWRENCE R. LEHMAN, ex '48. 
Miss Mar\* Catherine Simpson and ROBERT F. SIMMONS.' '35. 
Miss Ann Ellen Spain and J.\MES E. G.\LLA­GHER, '44. 
Miss Mary EUen Gassensmith and VINCENT" G. LAURITA, '47. 
Marriages 
Miss Elizabeth Ann Arena and LAWRENCE DOUGLAS DALEY, '30, San Gabriel, Cal.. Jan. 24. 
Miss Ida Rebeca Lassen and LOREN'ZO RO­MAGOSA, '46, Panama, R. P., Jan. 31. 
Miss Bcttj- Ann Rosettie and HEWLETT THOM­AS FAGAN, '47, Corning, N. Y., Jan. 31. 
^fiss ^far^ret McNamara and D.WlL) M. THORNTON, '48, Marion, Ind., Jan 31. 
JCss Patricia McLellan and RICHARD R. BOR­GESS, '44, South Bend, Jan. 31. 
Miss ^largaret Janis Dugan and PAUL A. GU­ARNIERI,, '36, Log Chapel, Notre Dame, Jan. 17. 
Miss Regina Kaveney and HAROLD L. SPARL­ING, '36, Log Chapel, Notre Dame, Jan. 31. 
Miss Virginia McIntiTc and WILLUM H. VOLL, '48, [son of BERNARD J. VOLL, '17] Saginaw, XEch., Feb. 7. 
Miss Sarah Frances Eldridge and JOHN L. KENKEL, '33, Washington, D. C, Dec 22. 
Miss Madeleine Bordcs and PAUL V. DELKER, '49, Woonsocket, R. I., Dec. 29. 
Miss Dorothv Marie Linnig, and BERNARD A. CRIMAHNS, '42, Louisi-iUe, Ky., Feb. 7. 
Miss Patricia Ann Kaough and NEIL JOSEPH McCARTY, '42, Lake Charles, La., Feb. 3. LAW­RENCE J. KELLEY,, '42, was best man. 
Miss Dorothy Hanover and CHARLES E. De-WITT, '30, Feb. 20. 
Miss Gladj-s Lucille Cassells and RICHARD F. BR.4NCO, '48, South Bend, Jan. 30. 
Miss Evelyn Ketchmark and JULIAN L. Vandc-WALLE, ex- '48, Las Cruces, N. M., Jan. 31. 
Miss Mary Jeanne Klonne and RAYMOND W. GUDMENS, '47, Dec. 27. 
Miss Mo>-a Murphy and THOMAS F. GOLDEN, '31, m.s., '47, Sydney, Australia, Dec. 18. 
Born fo 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT G. O'DONNELL, '38, a daughter, Feb. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. CARL E. ZIMMERER, '34, a son, Michael Gardner, Feb. 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT T. TERRY, ex '47, a daughter. Mar}' Catherine, March 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN D. G.AVAN, '40, a daugh­ter, Barbara Mary, Dec. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL D. HOL.AHAN, '29. a son, Daniel Jolin, Feb. 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS E. .ADAMSON, Jr., '36, a son, Thomas Eduard III, Aug. 15, 1947. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES C. BOROWSKI, '38, a daughter, Anne Marie, Nov. 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. WALL.ACE L. FROMHART, '37, a son. Dec. 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. R.AY.\IOND L. MEYER, '38, a daughter, Mar>* Ann, Dec. 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES W. O'REILLY, '38, a son, John Patrick, Feb. 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK J. STUMPF, '44, a son, Frank J., Jr., Jan. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES E. ENGELS, '33, a son, James, in January'. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN M. CURRAN. Jr.. '40, .t daughter, Christine Agnes, .Aug. 6, 1947. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES BOYNTON, '44, a son, Dec. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. S.AMUEL E. MOLTER, '43, a daughter, Margaret Frances, July 14, 1947. 
Mr. and Mrs. MATTHEW H. MERKLE, '39, a daughter, Christine Louise, Nov. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. MARTIN B. DALY, Jr., ex '26, a daughter, Patrida, Feb. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD C. WATTERS, U, '44, a daughter, Patrida Anne, Feb. 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL J. WITHEY, '27, a son, Mark Paul, Feb. 16. 
Dr. and Mrs. S. J. LaPILUSA, '41, a son, Rich­ard Francis, Jan. 31. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK HONERKAMP, '34, a son, Philip James, Feb. 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. E. SPENCER WALTON, '35, a daughter, March 3. 
Mr. and Mis. JAMES B. TREACY. '43. a son, Mark James, Feb. 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. NORBERT GELSON, '26, a daughter, Kathleen, March 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT C. MADDOCK, '42, a daughter, March 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDW.ARD A. FISCHHER, '37, a son, &larch 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. O'DEA, '41, a son, George Kelly, Feb. 4. 
DeofA$ 
LOUIS C. WURZER, '96, died of a cerebral 
hemorrhage in Detroit on Feb. 11. 
The senior partner of Wurzer, Higgins, Sweeney 
and Starrs of Detroit, he was one of the oldest 
members of the American Bar Association, having 
been in that organization since 1909. He was a mem­
ber of numerous organizations in Detroit, was a 
director of several firms, and the president of Prop­
erties Corp. 
He was a veteran of the Spanish-American War, having seen action as a member of the crew of the 
U.S.S. Vosemitc. The funeral ttlass was celebrated at SS. Peter and Paul Church, Detroit, on Feb. 14, and he was ^ buried in Elmwood Cemetery. ^ Surviving are his wife, a son, a daughter, and a brother, Edward C , *03. One of his survi\-ing part­ners is John T. Higgins, '22, a member of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association from 1940 to 1946. Two nephews, Henry C. Wurzer, '25, and Lincoln E. Wurzer, '35, also sur%'ive. He was a 
brother of F. Henr>' Wurzer, '98, %%'ho was president of the Alumni Association in 1922. 
BROTHER FRANCIS de SALES CULLINAN, C.S.C., died at the Community Infirmary at No­tre Dame on Jan. 13. 
He was born in Ireland in 1858, entered the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1887, and made his profession in 1893. He taught, and was a prefect in the prcparatorj- department at Notre Dame. 
In the course of his long life as a teacher, some 58 years, he taught in many schools of the Congre­gatiion. His last mission was to Sacred Heart Ju­niorate, Watcrtown, Wis. Five years ago he was priWIeged to celebrate his golden jubilee as a member of Holy Cross. 
CARL CENTIVRE, a student at Notre Dame in the early 1900's, died at the University of Michigan Hospital, Ann Arbor, on Jan 29. 
He was a prominent Fort Wayne, Ind., business ^ leader and treasurer of the Centli\Te Brewing ^ Corp. ^ 
Members of the Fort Wayne Notre Dame Club, of which he was also a member, paid their re­spects and attended the funeral. The Mass was cele­brated at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Con­ception. 
Suriing are his wife; a son, Robert E., *40; five brothers, Herman G., Austin, Frank, Clarence, and Louis H., all of whom attended Notre Dame; and four sisters. 
FRED J. ALVJOR, who attended Notre Dame in the 1880's, died in St. Joseph Hospital, South Bend, on Jan. 22. 
He was a retired Mishawaka businessman and a member of a meat packing family prominent in Mishawaka for many years. He was a member of the Knights of Columbus. 
Surviving are two sons, three daughters, one broth­er, and two sisters. 
Mos. Rev. FRANCIS C. KELLEY, LL.D., '07, bishop of Oklahoma City and Tulsa diocese, died of a heart ailment in Oklahoma City on Feb. 1. 
Bom on Prince Edward Island, Canada, in 1870, be was ordained in 1893 and was elevated to the episcopate in 1924. He was the founder of the Extension Society and for many j-ears was the prcsi- ^, dent of the society and the editor of the "Exten-M siott lifagazine." Under his editorship the magaazine bad 3,030,000 paid subscriptions and today is still 
one of the largest home-circulated magazines in the world. 
Bishop Kelley was the second bishop of Oklahoma. During his 23 years a bishop, he saw the building of more than 60 churches and established six hospiuls. His diocese won a record of making more converts, proportionately, than any other in the United States. 
Although Bishop Kelley was a world-known figmre as a lecturer and diplomat, he perhaps is best known for his many writings. Besides hundreds of pam­phlets and brochures for the Extension Society, he wrote many books which have been translated into many languages. 
BROTHER AID.VN O'REILLY, C.S.C, '27, died of heart disease in St. Joseph Hospital, South Bend, on Feb. 19. 
An ardent friend of many alumni and a wide reader. Brother Aidan regularly for many years sup­plied the ALUMNUS with \-ahiable notes and clippings regarding alumni. Readers of the magazine owe him special gratitude and the charity of their prayers. 
Born Thomas O'Reilly, April 7, 1877, in Newton-barn', Ireland. Brother Aidan entered the Congrga­tion of Holy Cross at Notre Dame on May 22, 1899, and made his final vows as a brother on Aug. 15, 1902. From 1902 to 1907 he was prefect of Brown-son Hall on the campus and in 1907 became the first superior of Dujarie Hall, the brothers* house of studies on the campus. .After ser\ing in that capacity for 12 years he was named president of Holy Cross college in New Orleans. La., in 1919 and ser\ed until 1922. He was president of the college again in 1925 and 1926. 
After 5er\'ing as steu-ard at Notre Dame in 1926­27, he was named rector of Brownson Hall and pro­fessor of English until 1934. He later taught English at several high schools and at Holy Cross College. Since 1943 he had been teaching English at Notre Dame. 
The funeral was held on Feb. 23 in Sacred Heart church. Burial was in community cemetery at Notre Dame. 
The celebrant of the solemn requiem mass was Rev. Howard Kenna. C.S.C, director of studies at Notre Dame, assisted by two professors of English, Rev. Paul Beichner, C.S.C. and Rev. Chester Soleta, C.S.C., as deacons, and Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C.., professor of religion, as master of cere­monies. 
Dr. JOHN R. TOBIN. who was elected an hon­orary member of the .Mumni .Association in 1929, died in Elgin, III., on Feb. 25 after a long illness. 
Dr. Tobin, who was an enthusiastic supporter of Notre Dame, practiced medicine in Elgin and con­ducted a clinic. Two sons, Dr.. Paul G, Tobin. *28. and Dr. James \V. Tobin. '29. were associated with him. A third son. Dr. John R. Tobin. '38, is study­ing at the Mayo CHnJc on a fellowship. 
The funeral Mass was celebrated in St. Lawrence Cbnrch, Elgin, on Feb. 28. Rev. Robert H. Sweeney. 
C.S.C and Rev. James Gallagan. C.S.C, repre­sented Notre Dame at the funeral. 
Sur\"ing arc his wife, the three sons, and a daui'h­tcr. Mrs. Franklin P. Branagan. a graduate of St. Mar\''s, Notre Dame. 
JOHN THONf.AS COLRICK. '29, one of Notre Dame's few eight-letter men. died in New Rochellc. 
N. Y- Hospital on Feb. 15. John, who was captain of the baseball team in his senior year, won three letters in that sport, three in basketball, and two in football. John became assistant football coach at George­town after graduation and in 1934 was named ath­letic director of Seton Hall College in New Jersey, where he also coached baseball and basketball. In 1936 he left Seton Hall to serxe as technical advisor for several sports motion pictures, among them 
"Knute Rockne. All American." In 1941 he re­turned to the cast to become manager of Montclair, 
N. J.. Athletic Club, and at the time of his death was night manager of the Grand Concourse Plaza Hotel in New York City. 
The funeral Mass was celebrated in St. Rose of Lima's Church, Short Hills, N. J., on Feb. 18. Surviving are his mother, two brothers, and two sisters. 
Capt. *iIiOMx\S J. COLLINS, ex '43, was killed when the Army jet plane he was piloting crashed last summer. 
He received his commission from the Army Air Forces Administration OfHcers* Candidate School, Miami, in Oct., 1942. Captain Collins was the commandant of cadets at the Tuskcgee Army Air Field, Ala. 
Before entering the .Air Corps he was employed by the General Outdoor .Advertising Co. in South Bend. 
J/\MES R. '^SLLM" WALSH, M7, died in Duke Hospital, Durham, N. C , on Feb. 20 after a long illness. 
A star on the baseball team at Notre Dame, he was signed by the Detroit Tigers after he was grad­uated, but after a brief career in professional base­ball he retired to enter business in Chicago. He was a real estate executive and operated a beer distribut­ing agenc>' in Chicago. 
Slim was a member of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, the Olympia Fields Country Club, and the .Arlington Club of Chicago. 
The Solemn High Mass was celebrated in St, Felicita's Church, Chicago, on Feb. 23. 
Sur\iving are his wife, a son, four brothers and three sisters. 
EDGAR F. ^fORA^^ '17, died in Tulsa, Okla., on March 8. He apparently had been recovering from an illness when his death occurred. A complete obituary will be printed in the next issue of the ALUMNUS. 
Word has been received that VINCENT WALTER B.ARRY. ex '44, was killed in flight training at Pensacola, Fla., on March 8. 
THOMAS V. TRUDER, '16, prominent Las Vegas. N. M., attorney and former mayor, died in a hospital there last July after a brief illness. 
Tom. who received an LL.B. in 1920. interrupted his studies at Notre Dame to join the infantry in 1917 and was with the American Expeditionary Forces. 
He \%*as appointed assistant district attorney of Las Vegas in 1923. and in 1924 was elected mayor, an oflicc he held until 1936. He also served as district attorney for two terms. His last public office was that of commissioner of the New Mexico Public Scr\'ice Commission, which he resigned early in 1947 because of failing health. He was also a member of the Board of Regents of Highland University. 
He was district deputy grand exalted ruler of the Elks Lodge of New Mexico, was a fourth degree member of the Knights of Columbus, past president of Rotar>'. past consul commander of Montezuma Camp 2 of the Woodmen of the World, past com­mander of Post 24 of the American Legion, past commander of Post 1547 of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and a member of the board of directors of the Las Vegas Salvation Army. 
Sur\'iving ar3 the widow and two daughters. 

Dr. WILBUR S. EATO.W '25, who played end at Notre Dame in 1923 and 1924 and was a well-known coacli, died in March in Newton. la. A complete stor>* on his death will appear in the next issue of the ALUMNUS. 
ARTHUR W. RYAN, M4. died in his home in Toledo. O., in March after a long illness. 
He began the practice of law in Toledo in 1914. He was a member of the American. Ohio State, and Toledo Bar Associations, the American Legion, and the Holy Name Society of Rosary* Cathedral. During \VorId War I he serx'cd with the Army Air Force. 
Sur\'iving are his wife, two sons, a daughter, and two brothers. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathies to JO­SEPH A. CALL.\HAN. '38. on the death of his father: to ALFRED E. FOSTER, '48, on the death of his mother; to Drs. PAUL G., '28, JAMES W., '29, and JOHN R. TOBIN. Jr., '38, on the death of their father. Dr. JOHN R. TOBIN, an honorary, alumnus; to ROBERT E., '40, HER\L\N G., '25, .AUSTI.V, ex '27, FR.VNK, ex M9, and CLARENCE CENTLIVRE, ex '13, on the death of their father and brother. CARL CENTLIVRE; to D. BER­N.ARD HENNESSY, '34, on the death of his moth­er; to WILLARD F. WAGNER, '28, on the death pf his father. 
SPOTUGHT ALUMHUS 
WILLIAM C. FAY, '40, former sports writer for the Chicago• Tribune and before, that editor of the SCHOLASTIC, has become the newest star among the by-lines of the sports world. He has been appointed sports editor of Collier's. 
BOX FAY. '40 

Bill made his debut in the March 6 issue with "Sports in the Spring." His articles will be a regular feature of the magazine. 
The move to Collier's marks the begin­ning of new horizons for the newest of the big-time sports writers, and a new departure in magazine sports treatment. Collier's is the first magazine in the national weekly field to offer a regular weekly sports feature by a name writer, and Bill Fay is the first to have such an assignment. 
Bill was one of the three ofiBcers con­nected with the first Pacific edition of Stars and Stripes. He set up the circulation, a job which carried him around all of the Pacific islands. Published in Honolulu, it was flown to all the islands, copies going to Okinawa in a day and a half. 
.Although Bill .was covering sports for the Tribune and writing free-lance articles for magazines since graduation, his meteoric rise really began in 1945 after separation from the Army. His on-the-scene reporting of the Mexican baseball empire was factual and to the point. While other writers were wiring lyrical stories to their papers. Bill investigated thoroughly and stated flatly that the league couldn't possibly last, a predic­tion that proved to be correct. 
Bill was captain of the tenm's team in his senior year at Notre Dame. After being graduated he worked for the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, and in 1941 joined the Trib­une. His fiist magazine article, a profile on Angclo Bertelli, was sold to Collier's in 1942. 
JbiAecto^ of Clubs and Their Presidents » » 
ARIZONA—PHOENIX—John P. Joyce, '-lO, S30 Forest Ave., Tempc, Ariz. 
TUCSON-Ted "W. Witz, "29, Box 628 

ARKANSAS—Bart L. Roberts. '16, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock (secretary) 
CALIFORNIA—LOS ANGELES—Thomas R. Ashe, 
•31, Globe Oil Tools Co., Los Nietos, Calif. 
NORTHERN—John W. Carey, •41, Hanna Center for Boys, 7S5 Market. Rm. 402, San Francisco (San Francisco area) 

COLORADO—DENVER—Dr. Daniel G. Mon­aghan, •SS, 440 William 
CONNECTICUT —CONNECTICUT VALLKT — Floyd R. Richards. ^42, Radio Station WTIC, Hartford (Hartford area) 
NAUGATUCK VALLEY-D. Frank Murnanc, 
•32. Summit Rd.. Prospect, Conn. (Water­bury area) 
SOUTHWESTERN—John J. Galla, •SS, 303 
Sprine St., Bridgeport (Bridgeport area) 

DELAWARE—Arthur A. Baum. •SG. 1310 Van Burcn St., Apt. 3-C. Wilmington. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA —WASHINGTON­Thom.-is U McKevitt. "34. 1535 W. Falkland Lane, Silver Springs. JId. 
FLORIDA—George A. Brautigam, •29. 538 N. E. 55th Terrace, Miami, Fla. 
FT. LAUDERDALE—Robert H. GIVK. '31. 
221 N.E. River Drive. I't. Lauderdale. Fla. 

ILLINOIS—CHICAGO—J.nmes R. Cronin. •3."i. 3962 Cottage Grove Ave.. Chicago 15. III. 
FOX VALLEY—Dr. Philiji C. Hemming. "29. 399 Vincent PI.. Elgin. 111. (Aurora-Elgin area-
JOLIET—Joseph V. Kirincich, ^33, 306 Ruby 
St. 
PEORIA—Daniel J. Hecht, ^44, 407 Barker 
Ave. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY — Donald A. Hen­nessy. '.^7. Catholic Community High School, Sterling, III. (Rockrord-Di.\on area) 
SPRINGFIELD — Nicholas C. Amrhcin, •SO, 
1623 S. Fourth St. 

INDIAN.A—CALUMET DISTRICT—D.-inicl D. Lynch. "23. 34 Midway Court. Hammond. Ind. 
EASTERN INDIANA—Charles F. Vogt, 20754 
E. Main St., Muncie (Muncie area) 
FORT WAYNE—Bernard T. Kcams, ^29, 903 
Pasadena Drive 
INDIANAPOLIS—Patrick J. Fisher, •SG, 616 
Indiana Trust Bldg. 
MKnilGAN CITY—Hugh L. Burns, •SO. De­
partment of Athletics, Notre Dame, Ind. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Ind. and Mich.)— John E. Mclntyre, •SI, 1514 E. LaSalle Ave., South Bend (South Bend area) 
TRI-STATE (Ky., Ind. and HI,)—Francis J. Hennel)erger, •SI. 502 N. Hart St., Princeton, Ind. (Evansville-Vincennes area) 
W.^BASH VALLEY—William .1. Schi-ader. c.\ 
'33. 824 North lOlh St.. Lafayette. Ind. 

IOWA—DES MOINES—George J. Pflanz. III. c\ '43. 4819 Ingersoll P^\a. 
DUBUQUE—G. I. Krajewski. '16, 1775 S. 
Grandville Ave. 
SIOUX CITY—Rolert A. Manning, ^36, 2719 
Nebraska St. (key man) 
TRI-CITIES—Alfred T. Erskine. Jr., '37. 712 . Grand Court. Davenport, Iowa. (Davenport-Rock Island-Moline area) 

KANSAS—EASTERN— • 
KENTUCKY—William J. Woemer, •SS, 20S May­fair, Oxford Place, (Louisville area) 
LOUISIANA—NEW ORLEANS—Jules K. de la Vergnc, •SS, 5811 Hurst 
NORTHERN—James R. Nowery. •29. P.O. Box 1545, Shreveport 94 (Shreveport area) 

MARYLAND —BALTIMORE—Lewis J. O^Shea, 
•31, 307 St. Dunstan^s Rd., Homeland. 

MASSACHUSETTS—BOSTON—John V. Uoran, 
•30. CostcIIo. Moran & Mjihan. 31 State SU, Boston 9. Mass. 

MICHIGAN—BERRIEN COUNTY — "William H. Downey, ^28, 60 N. St. Joseph Ave., Niles (Niles-St. Joseph-Benton Harbor area) 
BLUE WATER DISTRICT—William L. Wil­son. '42, P.O. Box 295, Port Huron (Fort Huron area) 
(CENTRAL—Dr. Edgar J. Hermes, "IS. 828 
N. Logan St.. Lansing (L;insing area) 
DETROIT—Joseph A. Bach, ^20, 505 Park 
Ave., c/o Detroit Lions 
GRAND R,\PIDS and WESTERN MICIII­GAN—Robert N. Alt. ex "29. 901 Plymouth Rd.. S.E.. Grand Rapids. Mich. 
HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.)—Norman C. Bartholomew. *I5. 225 Cleveland Ave.. Iron Mountain, Mich. (Iron Mt.-Marinette are:i) 
IRON R.\NGE—Robert E. O'Callaghan, ex '45. 
G33 McLcod Ave.. Ironwood, Mich. 
JACKSON—Lyman H. Hill, Jr., 5205 U. S. 
127 S. 
.SAGINAW VALLEY — Joseph C. Goddeync, 
•II, 22 5 Carrol Rd., Bay City, Mich. (Sagi­naw area) 

MINNESOTA—Robert M. Rogers, ^43, 949 Grand Ave.. St. Paul (Twin Cities area) 
MISSOURI—KANSAS CITY (Mo. and Kans.)— .loseph M. Van Dyke, ex '44. 4642 Pennsyl­vania. Kansas City 2. Mo. 
.ST. LOUIS—Fred C. Weber, Jr.. ^36, 6639 
University Drive 

MONTANA—Bernard Grainey, '43, 801 12th Ave., Helena. 
NEW JERSEY—CENTRAL —Michael J. Balog. 
•34, 316 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy (Perth Amboy area) 
NEW JERSEY—George J. Melinkovich, •So, 
27 Leo Place, Newark (Newark area) 

NEW YORK—BUFFALO—John L Hoelscher, ^42. 174 Crosby Blvd.. Eggcrtsville. N. Y. 
CAPITAL DISTRICT — James J. Drisljine, 
•38, 75 State St., Albany, N. Y. 
CENTRAL—Mark E. Mooney. ^26, 125 But­
ternut Drive, DeWitt (Syracuse area) 
MOHAWK VALLEY—Frank Donalty, '33, 23 
Beverly PI., Utica (Utica area) 
NEW YORK CITY—John A. Ho>-t. Jr.. '33. Gillespie & O'Connor. 20 Vcscy St.. New York 
7. N. Y. 
NORTHERN—Judge Cornelius J. Carey, •SO, 
12 P.nrk St., Malone (Malone area) 
ROCHESTER—William R. Bell, "25, 95 Ames 
St. 
SCHENECTADY—John F. Hurley. ^37. 83 
Western Parkway, Schenectady. 
TRIPLE CITIES—James H. Hogan. ^34. 42 Oak St., Binghamton. N. Y. (Binghamton-Johnspn CTity area) 

OHIO—AKRON — Paul A. Bertsch, ^29, 763 S. High. 
CANTON—William H. Belden, ^36, 305 22nd 
St., N.W. 
CENTRAL — John J. Cannon, •SO, 555 E. Broad St., Columbus (Columbtls area) •. 
CINCINNA'n—J. Walter Nienabcr, '37, 2106 Alpine PI. 
CLEVELAND —Hugh M. O^Neill, '17, 544 
Terminal Tower DAYTON—E. William Hoyne, "42, 205 Salem 
Avenue 
HAjnLTON—Judge Harry F. Walsh. '31. 
Municipal Court. 
LIMA—George Shanahan. '17, 432 W. Main St. 
OHIO VALLEY—Dr. William E. Ackermann, 
•.33. 14 Edgewood St.. Wheeling. W. Va. (Bcllaire-Wheeling area) 
S.XNDUSKY—Alfred A. Schnurr. Jr., '25. 
So. (Tolumbus Ave.. Sandusky. O. 
TIFITN-Fred J. Wagner, ^29, 84/: S. Wash­
ington St. 
TOLEDO-John R. Malone, ^42, 4805 Summit 
St., Toledo. Ohio 
YOUNGSTOWN—Clarence T. Sheehan, "40, 
•The '•Vindicator."^ 

OKI..\HOMA—TULSA—E. W. Leroux, ".IS, 1724 
S. Madison 
OKLAHOMA CITY—Haskell Askew. •SI. lOOT 
Perrine Bldg.. Oklahoma City. Okla. 

OREGON—Robert G. Molin, ^40, 316 W. Alder .St., Portland 
PAN.4MA—William Sheridan. •SS. Box 605. An-con. Canal Zone. 
PENNSYLVANIA-EASTERN—Leo R. Mclntyre. 
•2S. 3004 Turner St.. Allentown (Allentown-Bethlehem area) 
ERIE—James B. Dwycr, •ST, 400G State St. 
KARRISBURG—Francis C. Barlmsh. "37. 128 S. 3rd St. 
MONONGAHELA VALLEY — Edward J. Dean. •2.S. 11 Linden Ave., Monesscn, Pa. (Monesscn area) 
PHILADELPHIA —Charles A. Conley, •3.'; 
100 E. Turnbull Ave., Havertown, Pji. 
SCRANTON —Louis J. Finske, •lO, Gravel 
Pond No. 2, Clarks Summit, Pa. 
WESTERN—Lawrence J. O^TooIc. •Se. 425 
S. Aiken Ave.. Pittsburih (Pittsburgh area) 
WILKES-BARRE—Gilbert V. Perry, •SI, 190 
Wyoming Ave., Wyoming, Pa. 
WILUAMSPORT—Frank C. ILlycs, '27, 820 . Erie Ave.. Renovo. Pa. 

RHODE ISLAND and S. E. JUSSACHUSETTS— John J. McLaughlin. '34. Mendon Rd., Cum­berland Hill, R. I. (Providence area) 
TENNESSEE—MEMPHIS—T. J. Foley, Jr., '35, 666G S. McLean 
NASHVILLE—W. Kennedy Jones. •SO. P.O. 
Box 773 

TEXAS—DALLAS—Walter L. Fleming. ^40. 4549 Bolfort Place 
HOUSTON — Robert C. Scoggir.s. ^24, 430 
Humble BMg. 
SAN ANTONIO—Leonard M. Hess. '25, 20! 
Stanford Dr. 

UTAH—Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Kearns Bldg.. Salt Lake City 
VIRGINIA—Dr. Charles R. Riley, '39, 350S Sem­inary Ave., Richmond 22. 
WASHINGTON—WESTERN—Charles F. Osborn. Jr.. '38, 603 Central Bldg.. Seattle (Seattle area) 
WEST VIRGINIA—Joseph F. Necnan. '41, 4012 Venable Ave., Charleston 
WISCONSIN—GREEN BAY—Harold L. Londo. '24, Sup't., Green Bay Water Dept. 
LACROSSE — John A. Elliott, '25, 1420 
King St. 

MILWAUKEE—Donald T. Gottschalk, ex '41, 213 
- W. Wisconsin Ave., Milwaukee 3, Wisconsin 
SOUTH CENTRAL—John W. Roach, '25, 
2115 Van Hise Ave.. Madison (Madison area) 








