The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
VoL33 No. 4 
James E. Armstrong, '25, Editor 
John N. Cackley, Jr., '37, Managing Editor 
Jim Armstrong received a testimonial fund gift of $7,338 from alumni and alumni J. clubs in honor of his 30th year as alumni secretary. Dr. Leo O'Donnell, As­sociation president, presented the check to Jim and Mrs. Armstrong at the alumni banquet on Reunion Weekend.  
The Class of 1930 had "atmosphere" as they turned back the clock 23 years at their class dinner on Reunion Weekend.  
• / Emi  
"mBENIliilHl  
S^cHU^i^ t^i-uac^  m"**A mi: tsm  


Alumni Banquet Highlights Reunion Weekend Program 
O'Donnell presented a check for $7,538 
to Alumni Secretary Jim Armstrong as 
a special anniversar)' gift of his 30th 
year as secretary of the Associatioil!? 
Alumni and alumni clubs contributed 
to the fund. 
The reunion officially closed on Sun­day morning with a special Mass in Sacred Heart Church for all alumni. 
Recent Promotions For N. D. Faculty 

Twenty-one alumni who are mem­bers of the Notre Dame faculty res ceived promotions at the end of the school year. Named to the rank of pro­fessor are: Charles J. Mullin, '42; Phys­ics; John F. Nims, '37, English; and Richard T. Sullivan, '30, English. 
Promoted to associate professor are: Richard E. Ball, '41, Business Admin­istration; Frederick S. Beckman, '42, Art; Thomas P. Bergin, '45, Business ."Vdministration; Rev. F. L. Brown, C.S.C., '38, Mathematics; Edward J. 1 Cronin, '38, General Program; Rev. H:H | 
F. DeBag^, C.S.C, '43, P.F.A.; Ed-' ward A. Fischer, '37, Journalism; Rev. 
T. J. Lane, C.S.C, '29, Chemistry; and i 
Paul S. Stokely, '44, Biolog)'. New assistant professors are: David 
L. Ardito, '48, Architecture: Peter T. Brady, '49, Accounting; Michael A. I DeCicco, '49, Mechanical Engineer­ing; James E. Houghton, '49, Engi­neering Drawing; Eugene J. Leahy, '47, Music; Bernard P. Noriing, '49, Histoiy; Rev. Bernard E. Shanley, '34* Religion;.William J. Thompson, '47, P.F.A.; and Richard D. \Villemin, '42, Testing and Guidance. 
About 900 alumni relumed for class reunion weekend on June 10, 11 and 
12. The Class of 1930 had the largest registration with 178 men while the Class of 1950 was second highest widi 172 returning for the festivities. 
The 50-year class, 1905, had a turn­out of 5 participants; diere were 6 from tlie Class of 1910; and 17 register­ed from the Class of 1915. Thirteen men were here representing die Class of 1920 and 82 attended the weekend program as members of the 1925 Class. The 20-year reunion class, 1935, had a total of 143; tlie 1940 Class checked in with 102 men and die 1945 Class had a total of 86. Independent classes not celebrating their reunions had repre­sentatives during the weekend. 
All reunion classes enjoyed special class dinners on Friday night to open the weekend program. The Class of '25 watched movies of previous re­unions attended by that group; the 1930 Chiss had a "reminiscing" pro­gram with skits and gags pertaining to tlie 1929-30 era; die men of 1935 enjoyed a bountiful buffet in die Rockne Lounge which continued for the entire weekend. 
Class Masses in menioiy of deceased alumni were held in the various hall chapels on Saturday morning. Father Hesbuigh was host to the 25-year Silver Jubilee group, 1930, at luncheon in die Faculty Dining Hall on Saturday. Engineering alumni met in the Engi­neering Building and law alumni assem­bled in the Law Building for special meetings on Saturday. 

The annual golf tournament under the supervision of Father Holderith and Bill Earley was held on Saturday. 
J. M. Brown, '40, won the 36-hoIe tournament with the gross score of 156. Low net winner was James Fritsch, '50, with a net of 130. The 18-hole tournament gross score winner was Art Arquilla, '50, while the winners of the net score (71) were F. T. McGuire, '35, Art Koss, '40, and T. P. McCardiy, '40. Bob Rolfs, '50, won die driving contest with 229 yards. Don Miller, '25. was awarded the trophy for driv­ing die shortest distance off the No. 1 tee (minus 3 yards). 220 players par­ticipated in the tournament. 
A special lecture at LOBUND was given by Dr. Thomas G. Ward of Johns Hopkins University. The alumni previewed a play, "Billion Dollar Saint" by Dr. Natalie White in Washington Hall on Saturday evening. It was held in conjuncuon with the Catholic Thea­tre Conference. 
The highlight of die weekend was the alumni banquet on Saturday night wliich was addressed by Father Hes-burgh and Dr. Leo O'Donnell, presi­dent of the Alumni Association. Dr. 
M-'^-r -_. 
43 



-/ dy-.-r 

Alumni of 1930 celebrated their silver jubilee reunion weekend. 
Notre Dame Atuninus, July-August, 1955 

,Father Hesburgh conferred honorary degrees on six recipients. Left to right: Thomas H. Beacom; Ivan Mestrovic; Romy Hammes; Father 
Hesburgh; Most Rev. John J. Wright; Herbert Bro\s-nell, Jr.; Very Rev. Christopher O'Toole, CS.C. 



1,000 Grads Receive Degrees 
Attorney General Herbert Brownell, Jr., gave the commencement address and the Most Rev. John J. AVright, Bishop of Worcester, Mass., preached the baccalaureate sermon at Notre Dame's 110th annual commencement on June 5th. More than a thousand students received graduate and under­graduate degrees at the exercises in the Notre Dame Stadium. 
Presentation of the 1954 Laetare Medal to retired diplomat Jefferson CafTery was an added feature of the commencement program. Gaffer)' re­turned to the United States earlier this year after serving as U.S. Am­bassador to Egj-pt since 1949. His retirement marked the end of a forty­uiree year career in the American foreign ser\'ice. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., confereed honoraiy degrees on Mr. Brownell and Bisliop AVright as well as on Ver)' Rev. Christopher J. O'TooIc, C.S.C., superior general of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross, Rome, Italy; Ivan Mestrovic, the celebrated sculp­tor who will join the Notre Dame faculty in September: Thomas H. Bea­com, vice president of the First Na­tional Bank of Chicago; and Romy 
Hammes, president of Romy Hammes Enterprises, Inc., Kankakee, III. Ham­mes is a member of the advisory council for the University's College of Com­merce and was recently elevated to a Knight Commander of Saint Gregor)'. Bishop Wright's sermon was given 
Father Hesburgh pins the Laetare Medal on Mr. CafTery at Commencement exercises. 
during an outdoor Solemn Pontifical Mass celebrated in the Stadium by the Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, Apostolic Administrator of the Diocese of Fort \Vayne, Indiana. Following the Mass, Father Hesburgh blessed an American flag which the senior class presented to the University on Washington's Birth­day. 

Thespians Attend Campus Conference 
PIa>'wright Emmet Lavery was the kejTiote speaker at the tenth biennial convention of the Catholic Theatre Conference held at Notre Dame June 12-15. He is a former president of the Hollj'wood Screen 'Writers Guild and a co-founder of the CTC. 
Other speakers at the opening ses­sion were Rev. Theodore M. Hes­burgh, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame; Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C, president of St. Marj-'s College; and Therese Marie Cuny, president of the Catholic Theatre Conference. More than 1,500 teachers, directors and stu­dents of the drama from Catholic high schools and colleges attended the con­vention. 
iVofrf Dame Alumnus^ July-August, I9S5 

Banquet to e.xpress my own gratitude, was that all those 900 in the Alumni 


cdUo^ikd eo*H,He*ui ^ir^r::;,^ 
Banquet room—from the 50-Year Clii^ 
It is really fascinating and fright­ening to discover how much can go on which involves you vitally, and not come to your atten­tion until the explo­sion. 
This was my ex­perience in the truly moving and gener­ous tribute paid to me at the 1955 Re­union Banquet of the Association. J'™ Armstrong 
In the great forward surge of Notre Dame, those of us who represent many generations of its students and admin­istrators have occasion to feel that the long years, the lean years, and the colorless plowing and planting, are lost in the golden light of the har\'est, and the lure of the new horizons. 
This summer of 1955, 30 years after graduation, was one of such reflection. The returned members of the Class of 1925 represented an inspiring array of realities that were dreams thirty years ago. The grass in the other j'ards was greener than usual. 
It was beginning to look to me as though perhaps I had reached the relatively modest summit of my pleas­ant career on the campus. Frankly, and for the first time, in any serious way, two major opportunities to ex­pand my career away from Notre Dame presented themselves. Both contained many of the appeals inherent in my years at Notre Dame. Both offered new challenges, new oppor­tunities, and great sense of ser\'ice. . . . 
Well, anyhow, the wonderful tribute, and its implications of satisfaction with the job done, and support for the job ahead, was as refreshing as it was timely. 
And of course it would be ridiculous to bow as though the picture of Notre Dame's Alumni Association were but the length and shadow of a man—big as that .shadow may now be. 
The progress of the Association has been achieved in large measure through the counsel, the enthusiasm, the time and tlie work contributed by the Alumni Boards—whose members, I find now, spearheaded this personal tribute. 
I owe a real debt of gratitude to the Foundation Offices, who, imder the spell of antiquity or other occult in­fluence, have gone far and above the call of duty in implementing the pro­grams created by the Board. 
No home office can flourish if the efforts in the field bog down. The verj' Clubs and Classes and ALUMNUS readers who joined in the observation of three decades of my operation of these factors, themselves should claim much of the credit for their progress. Club officers. Class officers, the column writers and individual alimini who thoughtfully provide our rich record of alumni alvancement, have been most responsive. 
My one hope, even as I tried at the to the 1950 Class—^would pause in tl^ frantic pace of progress to realize that career dedication, loyalty, e.xperience, and a recognition of the values of serv­ice to causes greater than men, are still virtues, and more importantly, are still appreciated virtues. 

I want to express a most inadequate thanks to many persons and Clubs as yet not even known to me, for their part in this major milestone of my life. And I would like to think that, in t^e remarks ahead of this, you may gain, as I hold, the hope that this personal gesture will be even more far-reaching in inculcating the seeds of similar years and greater serN-ice in the careers of other men who will serve Notre Dame. 
—Jim Armstrong 

Three N.D. Alumni Are Ordained Priests 
Rev. Bede A. Fitzpatrick, '43, O.F.M., was ordained to the priesthood by the Most Rev, Amleto Cicognani, Apos­tolic Delegate to the United States, at the Franciscan Monaster)', IVashing­ton, D.C., on June 9. Father Fitz­patrick ser\'ed three years in the U, S. Na\y during 'War II. He is at present a student of theology at Holy Name College in Washington, D. C , where he will continue his studies next Septem­ber. He is the brother of Joseph \\'., '42, Gerard J., '49, and Dana G., '52. 
Rev. Joseph E. Bidweli, O.P., was ordained a priest in the Dominican order on May 19. He is a member of Notre Dame's 1950 Class. Father Bid-well studied in the School of Engineer­ing before entering the Dominican Novitiate. He was ordained at the Prior)- of St. Rose of Lima, Dubuque, Iowa. Following ordination he again study theologj' and later probably will be working with the missions in foreign countries. 

Rev. Thomas Ninneman, '50, was ordained to the priesthood by Bishop Treacy on May 14 in Christ the King Chapel, Holy Cross Seminary, at La-Crosse, Wis. Father Ninneman's First Solemn Mass, which was attended by the Rev, Robert Lochner, C.S.C., of the University of Notre Dame, w^s celebrated in his home parish of St. Mary's at Tomah, \Visconsin. Two of his brothers, Peter, '54, and Robert, '48. also are Notre Dame graduates. 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Xotre Dame, Xotrc Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, et the PostolHcc, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 

staff of the combined Alumni and Father Fitzpatrick Father Bidwcll Father Ninneman T 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ Jtlly-August^ 1955 

Dr. O'Donnell Dick Burke Jim Ferstel 


BANQUET FOR 1955 GRADUATING GLASS 
Graduating seniors attended a din­ner sponsored by the Alumni Associa­tion on May 17 in the University Din­ing Hall. Principal speakers were the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Dr. Leo O'Donnell, president of the Alumni Association, and James Ferstel, member of the Alumni Board of Direc­tors. Richard Burke, president of the 
•Senior Class, was toastmaster of the affair. 
The purpose of the meeting was to acquaint the seniors with the work of the Alumni Association and to welcoihe them as new members of this organiza­tion. Members of the University ad­ministration, and the Foundation and Alumni Offices were special guests. This is the second annual dinner spon­sored by the Alumni Association for the senior class. 
Lee Hope Resigns from N.D.Band DirectorPost 
Lee Hope, director of University bands since 1942, has resigned and will enter private business in Evansville, Ind. He will be succeeded by Robert F. O'Brien who directed the band for two years while Hope took a leave of absence to obtain the Ph.D. degree at Indiana University. Notre Dame bands under Lee Hope have been nationally recognized for their interesting and imi­que half-time shows during the foot­ball season. He was also instrumental in scheduling the concert band during the spring season in various parts of the country. 

Joseph O'Brien Named Director of Personnel 
Joseph F. O'Brien, '49, has been named Director of Personnel at Notre Dame. Since 1952 O'Brien has been associated with the VVhirlpool Corpora­tion at its plants in St. Joseph, Mich., and LaPorte, Ind. 
O'Brien will supervise personnel matters for more than 1,000 non-aca­demic employees of the University. 
A native of Philadelphia, O'Brien has been serving during the past year as salary administrator at Whirlpool's St. Joseph plant which employs 3p00. He was responsible for maintaining the company's basic wage and salary poli­cies arid directed the plant's saljiry re­view and position evaluation programs. 
Earlier O'Brien was personnel serv­ices administrator at the LaPorte Air­craft Division of the Whirlpool Cor­poration. In this capacity he organized and directed a variety of personnel services, supervised the company's rec­reational program and assisted in pub­lic relations activities. 
Dates to Remember 1955-56 

Universal Commimion Sunday, Dec. 
10, 1955. 
Universal Notre Dame Night, April 
9, 1956. 
Class Reunion Weekend, Jime 8-9­
10, 1956. 
Father Hesburgh was host to the 1930 Class at the President's Luncheon on Reunion Weekend. 
Sotre Damt AtumnuSy July-August^ 1933 5\\-" ; 



Floridsi Noti*e Dame Aliiuini Stale Convention 
By Trudy Iiiiisl 
Tiie Fij-si Ainnial Slate Convention of the combined Xotie Dame CInbs of Florida was held the weekend of Apiil 25 at the beautiful Sea Ranch Hotel, Fort Lauderdale. It was ])lanned for many weeks by Bob Gore and \Villard Moss of the Fort Lauderdale cltib and Faris Cowart. Slate Governor for the Notre Dame Foundation and member of the Miami Club. 
Guests began arriving Friday after­noon, and by late e\ening lliere were representatives from Tampa, St. Pelei^s­burg. Orlando, Lakeland, Cocoa, \Vin­
ler Haven, \Vest Palm Beach, Dune­din, Miami, Coral Gables, Miami Shores, AVinter Park. Hollj-wood, Fort Lauderdale and please note. South 

C XotTf Dame Alumnus^ July-Auguit, 1955 
Bend, Mimieapolis, Cleveland and Ha­\ana. Our guests of honor. Father John J. Cavanaugh, Director of tiie Xotix; Dame Foundation, and Jim Flick. Southeast area representative of the Foundation, probably will claim .South Bend as tlieir home port, but we suspect it wouldn't be too hard lo make Floridans out of both of them! 
Salmday momiiig even the .Atlantic Ocean entered into the spiiit of things. It was as calm as il ever gets, and lured many of the con\'entioneers in for a di|) before breakfast. 
The Sea Ranch, owned by R. H. Gore, Sr., a member of Notre Dame's Commerce College Advisoiy Council and longliiTie friend of the University. 

is spread along nearly one-third mile of the oceanfronl. Just above the gor­geous private beach stretches grass. Slant: terraces, and a beaiiliful sivim­ming pool in a magnificent setting.^. Such an atmos]jhere certainly was con­ducive to rela.\alion and fonning of new friendships. Saturday morning entertainment was fimiished by a group of young swimmers from the Fort Lauderdale Swimming .Associa­tion who demonstrated why this is the swimming capital of the U. S. 
.After luncheon, ser\ed on the out­side dining terrace, the group enjoyed an excellent e-xhibition of tennis by Jim and Jeriy Evert, both of whoni^ were outstanding stars on the Notre Dame net team several years ago, Bobby Riggs and Mitch Goniio. 
.•\ cocktail ])arty on the pool terrace began the real festivities of the con­vention. Many other Notre Dame people drop]3ed in for the party and banquet celebrating Univei'sal Notre Dame night. The guests were wel­comed by Fort Lauderdale President Bob Gore, who introduced Paris Cow-art as master of ceremonies for the evening. Following introductions of club jjresidents and guests at the speak­er's table, Edward .\. Kelly received 
' the Man-of-the-Year award from the Miami Club. Fallicr Cavanaugh's ad­dress was inspirational and the high point of the evening. 
After the banquet, the guests retired to the pool terrjice for dancing. .-Vn impromptu swimming party in the pool followed,, in the early moniing hours. 
.Sundav morning the guests attended 
Father Cavanaugh's Mass, returned to the Sea Ranch for breakfast, then back to the pool and ocean for more sun and swimming. 
The official closing of the convention was a bullet lunch seived on the patio and plans were made for ne.st year's get-together. Eveiyone who attended the convention left with a feeling of great pride in belonging to the Notre Dame ""family." 
Those who attended the meeting in­cluded: Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, Roy J. Deeb, Mr. and Mre. George \. Brautigam, Dr. and Mrs. Howard M. Seivice, Mr. and Mrs. James C. Downey, Mr. and Mrs. Dan­iel Downey, Jr., Mr. and Mrs. James 
F. Cooney'.Mr. and Mre. William B. Madden, Mr. and Mrs. Geoige F. Mc­Fadden, J. J. Probst, Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Sadowski, Mr. and Mrs. Dan Rowlands, Mr. and Mrs. Ed«ard .-\. Kellv. Mr. and Mrs. Thomas P. 

Nolan, Mr. and Mrs. Louis Godoy. Mr. and Mrs. R. PL Gore, Mr. and Mrs. R. H. Gore, Jr., Mr. and Mi?. A. 
E. Hermann, Mrs. Edward J. Schroe­ter, James Frick, Mr. and Mrs. Roy B. Lauglilin, Mr. and Mrs. John J. Mc-Caflrey, Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Kess­ing, Mr. and Mrs. W'illard F. Moss,. Mr. and Mrs. George J. Ernst, Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Roy, Mr. and Mrs. CItarles E. Maher, Mr. and Mrs. Carroll J. O'Connor, Mr. and Mrs. Raymond F. McVdams, Mr. and Mrs. Faris N. Cowart. 
Mr. and Mi-s. \Villiam D. Gagan, Mr. and Mrs. Hugh J. McManigal, Mr. and Mrs. George M. Rudolph, Jr., Mr. and Mrs. Joseph E. Keefe, Mr. and Mrs. Walter Crane, Mr. and Mrs. 
A. AV. Johannes, Mr. and Mrs. Michael Zarovich, Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Rtgley, Mr. and Mrs. William D. Joyce, David S. Smyth, Mr. and Mrs. Matthew Butti, Don J. Smyth. 
"Father John J. Cavanaugh. C.S.C, Director of the Xotre Daiue Foundation, was guest speaker at the convention's UND N'ight banquet. 
3! 

The 1915 group included (left to right, seated): William Kclleher, Joe Healy, Jim Sanford, Ray Kelly, Walter demons, Father Hagcrty; standing: Leo Welch, Norman Ranstead, LD Kccslar, Tom Curry, Prep March Welk, Ed Riely, Lennox Arm­strong and Judge Peaches Granfield. 



GlaU 

Weekend 1955 

1920's reunion ivas chainnanned by Ed Meehan. 
^' m M 

Men of '45 were rugged then—and now. 
Xotre Dame Alumnus, July-Augustt 1955 

The stalwarts of '25 who celebrated their 30th. 
1950 turned out in full force for their fifth year reunion. 


It was a great reunion for the 1940 class—out 15 years. 
Notre Dame Atumnujt July-August, 1955 


Attention Reunion Classes, 1955: 

Names of reunion registrants \vill be published in class column news of the next ALUMNUS magazine. JC 
1935's reunion committee included (left to right): Bill Ryan, Chct Chlebowski, Kurt Simon, General Chairman Dan Youngcrman, Paul Fergus, Fal Harris, Ed Smith, Frank Ma.'avcll and Tom Hickcy, Jr. 
Members of 1910 include (left to right): Jim Redding, Steve Herr, Father Mathis, Claude Sorg and Bill Schmitt. 
The Class of '35 started making plans for their 25th in 1960. 
Id Xotre Dame AlumnuSf July-August, 1955 


Democratic Chairman Paul Butler 
One of the most active persons on the national political scene these days is Paul Butler, '27, South Bend, Ind., who is Chairman cf the Democratic Na­tional Committee. A 'bi-partisan' testimonial dinner was held in his honor by South Bend friends of both parties. Paul is married, the father of five children and his oldest son, Paul, Jr., is a sophomore at Notre Dame. 
The 1903 group celebrated their golden jubilee with the following (left to right): Wilh'am Jamieson, Dr. Van Rie, Daniel Murphy and E. F. Grubcr. 
Participants in the third annual Sales and Advertising Conference at Notre Dame included: Robert GalWn, '44, executive vice-president of Motorola, Inc. (seated right); Rev. Edmund 
P. Joyce, C.S.C.; MlUiam L. Voss, "23, of (he Sales Analysis Institute, Chicago, and L. H. Robinson, Studebaker-Packard Corp. (both standing). 

Fr. Mendez Named PJacement Director; 
Rev. Alfred F. Mendez, C.S.C, is 

the new director of Notre Dame's place­
ment bureau, succeeding the late Wil­
liam R. Dooley who coordinated job 
placement of Notre 
Dame seniors from 
195 0 until h i s 
deat h December 
25th. 
In his new post 
Father Mendez will, 
receive hundreds of 
representatives o f 
business and i n ­
dustry who come 
Father Mcndez 

to the Notre Dame campus each year to interview grad­uating seniors. He will continue to serve as director of student aid and coordinator of summer activities at the University. 
From 1948 to 1952 Father Mendez 

taught Spanish at Notre Dame and 
served as chaplain to the University's ' 
married veterans and their families. In 
the summer of 1952 he was campus co­
ordinator of the National Congress of 
Religious attended by more than two 
thousand priests, Brothers and Sisters. 
A native of Chicago, Father Mendez 

entered the Congregation of Holy Cross 
in 1925, was graduated from Notre 
Dame in 1931 and was ordained to the 
priesthood in 1935. He is a former 
faculty member at St. Edward's Uni-. 
versity, Austin, Ttxas, and for several 
years was director and procurator of 
the Holy Cross home missions in the 
southwest. 

Student Lounge 
The name for the new LaFortune 

Student Center basement lounge will be the "Down and Under." Renova­tion is well under way and it is ex­pected to be used by the student body this coming fall. The general decor wilP be designed in rathskeller fashion and walls in the main lounge will be panel­ed in California redwood. A special mural of student life painted by three graduating seniors is on the west wall. Approximately 100 persons \vill be able to use the facilities of the lounge at any one time. Complete with a coke bar, it will be used for hall parties, student . mixers, as a ticket distribution point for future prom goers and as a place of 
relaxation. ^ 
12 Xotre Dame Alumnus, July-Auguil^ 1955 

m Members of the newly-formed Advisory Council of the School of Law met at the University recently. Front row (left to right): Aaron H. Huguenard, '23; Hugh C. Boyle, '24; Dean O'Meara; John T. Higgins, '22; Charles Fahy, '14; and Frank J. McCarthy, '25. Back row (left to right): H. Clay Johnson, '32; Father Joyce, '37; Harry F. Kelly, '17; and Paul F. HeUmuth, '40. 
New Advisory Council for Notre Dame School of Law 
t(^ 
An advisor)' council for the Notre Dame Law School held its first meeting on the campus April 22. 
t 
|; Formation of the law school advis­'§ ory council will bring prominent mem­i hers of the bench and bar and other leaders into closer association with the , University, according to Rev. Theodore I M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. They will share I with us, he continued, "the responsi­
bility of training professionally com­^petent, moral and intelligent la\vyers and leaders." 
Those who have accepted member­ship on the council include Judge Hugh C. Boyle, Allegheny County Or­phans' Court, Pittsburgh; John E. Cas­sidy, Peoria, 111., attorney; Judge 
I Charles S. Desmond, New York State Court of Appeals, Buffalo; Oscar J. Dorwin, vice president and general counsel. The Texas Company, New York City; Judge Charies Fahy, U. S. 
[/"'Court of Appeals, Washington, D. C ; Harold S. Foley, president, Powell River Co., Vancouver, British Coliun­bia: Paul F. HeUmuth, Boston attor­ney; and John T. Higgins, Detroit at­torney. 
Also Aaron H. Huguenard, South Bend, Ind., attorney; H. Clay Johnson, executive vice president and general counsel, Royal-Liverpool Insurance Group, New York City; Harry F. Kelly, Detroit attorney and former governor of Michigan; and Robert F. Kennedy, chief counsel of the Senate Sub-Committee on Investigations. 
Other members of the advisory coun­cil are Judge Roger J. Kiley, Appel­late Court of Illinois, Chicago; Frank 
J. McCarthy, assistant vice president. The Pennsylvania Railroad, Washing­ton, D. C ; Judge Walter V. Schaefer, Supreme Court of Illinois, Chicago; Ross D. Siragusa, president, The Ad­miral Corporation, Chicago; and Ed­mund A. Stephan, Chicago attorney. 
Holy Cross Fathers Ordained on Campus 
Eight young men were ordained as priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross at Notre Dame on June 8. The Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, Apostolic Administrator of the Diocese of Fort Wayne, Ind., officiated at the ceremony in Sacred Heart Church. 
Those ordained included Rev. Thomas L. Bill, C.S.C, South Bend, Ind.; Rev. James F. Blaes, C.S.C, In­dianapolis, Ind.; Rev. Eugene E. Horn-rich, C.S.C, Muskegon, Mich.; Rev. Wilfred A. Menard, C.S.C, Kanka­kee, 111.; Rev. Orel M. Secor, C.S.C, Chicago, 111.; Rev. James Trepanier, C.S.C, Ludington, Mich.; Rev. Gor­don ^V. Wilcox, C.S.C, Shaker Heights, Ohio; and Rev. George C. Wiskirchen, C.S.C, Quincy, 111. 
The newly ordained priests cele­brated their first Solemn Masses in their home parishes on Simday, June 
12. Shortly thereafter they will be as­signed to one of the activities of the Holy Cross Fathers. 
iVotre Dame Alumnus, Juty-August, I95S 13 




mf^-'''tm^'i^ms^^~^isi(i;y--'^"-m^ 
^>^pi 

General Motors Scholarships 
Four young men have been awarded Notre Dame scholarships provided by the General Motors Corporation. Ac­cording to Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C.. Director of Student Aid and secretary of the committee. General Motors has established four scholarships at Notre Dame on the basis of one for every twenty Notre Dame alumni employed by GM. The maximum available at any col­lege or university is five, he said. In addition. General Motors provides one hundred scholarships in a national competition with the recipients se­lecting the school of their choice. 

Sales and Advertising Conference 
Creativity as a key ingredient of successful merchandising was the theme of the third annual Sales and Advertis­ing Conference held recently on cam­pus. Notre Dame's College of Commerce and the Sales and Advertising Execu­tives Club of the St. Joseph Valley co-sponsored the sessions. 
Speakers included: Robert W. Gal­vin, executive vice president of Moto­rola, Inc., Chicago, 111., V/alter Johnson, vice president and sales manager of American Airlines, Nev/ York City, and William L. Voss, partner in the Sales Analysis Institute. 

Dr. Burton Lectures in Europe 
Dr. Milton Burton, professor of chemistry at Notre Dame and director of the University's Radiation Project, has been granted a year's leave of absence and will teach at George August University in Goettingen, Germany, during the 1955-56 school year under the auspices of the State Department's International Educational Exchange Program. 
The exchange program, established by the Fulbright Act, provides grants for American lecturers and research scholars to spend a year at educational 
M Notre Dame Alumnus^ July-Auguttf 1955 

&U^.^i 
institutions in foreign countries. They are selected by the Board of For­eign Scholarships whose members are appointed by the President. 
Prof. Fitzsimons Appointed Editor 
The appointment of Dr. Matthew A. Fitzsimons as editor of Notre Dame's REVIEW OF POIITICS has been announced. Fitzsimons succeeds the late Dr. Wal­demar Gurian who founded the quarterly publication in 1939 and served as its editor until his death last May. The REVIEW is a general cultural journal with a dominantly political and his­torical appraisal of current pro­blems in world affairs. 
Professor Frank O'Malley and Dr. John J. Kennedy were named as associate editors of the publication and Rev. Thomas T. McAvo-y, C.S.C, managing editor. O'Malley and Father McAvoy, who heads Notre Dame's history de­partment, have been associated with the REVIEW OF POLITICS since it was founded. 
Prof. Niemeyer Named to Faculty 
The appointment of Dr. Gerhart Nie­meyer as a professor of political science at Notre Dame has been an­nounced by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, university president. Nie­meyer who will join the Notre Dame faculty in September, has been a re­search analyst for the Council on Foreign Relations, New York City, since 1953 and currently is a visiting lecturer at Yale University. He is one of a number of scholars being appointed to the Notre Dame faculty under the University's Distinguished Profes­sors Program. 
Dr. Smith Talks at Convention 
Parents have a-"special responsibi­lity" to educate their children in music. Dr. Vincent E. Smith, profes­
JMII>­sor of philosophy a Notre Dame, de-* VbHL tlllll' 
?^ca 
* "*" • IXIll" 
'•^-.m '**Z.
.•^o IIUC 
•Il>> 
,"»•»: 
'>aiE.:ii.;J< ;-tim .•If"" ii3ir 
.'-.._ 

Glared in the keynote address at the annual convention of the National Catholic Music Educators Association in Louisville, Ky. 
Professor Smith, who v/as recently elected president of the American Catholic Philosophical Association, asserted that music is apart of Chris­tian education. "No one is fully educated," he said, "who does not knov; music." 
Gifts for Notre Dame 
Eighteen paintings, two litho­graphs and an etching are among the recent acquisitions of the University of Notre Dejne galleries. The donors in­clude: Mrs. Consuelo Cuneo Bowes, Lihertyville, 111.. Dr. M. L. Busch of Huntington Park, California, Joseph Shapiro, Chicago, 111.. Lev/is J. Rus­kin, Chicago, 111., Mr and Mrs. S. J. Schatz, Chicago, 111., Rohert B. May­er, Chicago, ill., Morris I. Kaplan, Chicago, 111., and Dr. Hans Rosenwald. New York City. 
Father Gabriel Visits Europe 
Rev. A. L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame, has accepted invitations to give several lectures in France during the siammer months. He will present papers to the Academie des Inscriptions et Belles Letters, .the Historical Society of Paris and the Catholic University of Paris in June. He v/ill also confer with mediaeval scholars at Oxford and in London and attend the V/orld Congress of Historians at Rome early in Sep­tember. 
Dr. Ryan Edits Volume 
The spiritual and intellectual odyssey of Orestes k. Brownson, nine­teenth century American philosopher and journalist, is traced in the Brown-son Reader, an anthology of his writ­ings published recently (P. J. Kenedy and Sons, New York City.) 
Dr. Alvan S. Ryan, associate pro­fessor of English at the University of Notre Dame, has edited and v/ritten an introduction to the volume v/hich in­cludes representative essays penned by Brov/nson at various stages of his con­troversial career. Associated with several Protestant sects' in his earlier years both as a minister and a la,vii;an. Brovmson necame a convert to Catholicism at the age of forty-one. He is buried in the crypt of Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus. 
Dr. Ryan, a member of the Notre Dame faculty from 1943-46 and since 1951, has been awarded a faculty fellowship 
for 1955-56 by the Fund for the Ad­vancement of Education. He will spend the year at Princeton University studying and observing the Special Program in Humanities, the Honors Pro­gram and the Christian Gauss Seminars in Criticism. 
Presidential Review 
More than 1,400 Army. Navy and Air Force ROTC students at the University of Notre Dame marched in a colorful presidential revievr on the campus honoring Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh. C.S.C, president of Notre Dame. 
Sharing the reviewing stand with Father Hesburgh-were Lt. General Ho­bart R. Gay, commander of the Fifth Army, Chicago, 111.; Major General M. 
K. Deichelmann, commander of the Air University. Montgomery, Alabama; Rear Admiral E. P. Forrestel. commandant of the Ninth Naval District, Great lakes. • Illinois; Col. Frederic B. Mann, chief of the Indiana Military District; and Mayor John A. Scott of South Bend. Notre Dame is one of the few colleges and Universities in the country offer­ing ROTC training in all branches of the armed forces. 
Head of International Relations Committee 
Dr. Stephen Kertesz. professor of political science at Notre Dame and former Hungarian minister to Italy, has been appointed head of the Univer­sity's Committee on International Re­lations, by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
C.S.C. He succeeds the late Waldemar Gurian who headed the Committee from the time it was established in 1948 until his death in May 1954. 
During the next five years the Com­mittee on International Relations will conduct research dealing largely with American foreign policy. This research will be supported in part by a f 100,000 grant which the University of Notre Dame recently received from the Rocke­feller Foundation. Since 1948, the Committee has published ten books and conducted numerous campus symposia. 
New Book by Prof. Smelser 
Eighteenth century amphibious, war­fare is described vividly in The Cam­paign for the Sugar Islands,a new book by Dr. Marshall Smelser-, associate professor of history at the University of Notre Dame. The book, which in­cludes a foreword by Rear Admiral^ Samuel Eliot Morison, the. noted naval historian, was published today by the University of North Carolina Press. Its publication was sponsored jointly by Notre Dame and the Institute of Early American History. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Juiy-Augujt, 193S IS 
Varsity touchdowns were tallied by 

Fullback Don Schaefer and Quarter­
I iback Paul Homung. 
-yiikfeiics 
The Old Timers TD scoring was by Joe Heap, left half, Tom Carey, quar­
Bill Barley Resigns From Football Staff 
Backficld Coach Bill Earley recently resigned his Notre Dame position, ef­fective June 1, to become backfield coach of the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian professional league. During Barley's nine-year coaching stint with the Irish, starting in 1946, Notre Dame won 72 games, lost nine and tied six, and diere were five undefeated seasons. He specifically handled the halfbacks and fullbacks in diis period, and in­cluded among the Ail-Americans he tu­tored were: Terrj' Brennan, 1947; John Panelli, 1948; Emil (SLx-Yard) Sitko, 1948-49; Johnny Lattner, 1952-53: Nei i VVorden, 1 95 3; and Joe Heap, 19 5 4. Lattner was die winner of the Heisman Trophy in 1953. Ea r ley himself was the right halfback on die BiU Earlcy 1940-42 teams. Following graduation he ser\'ed in tlie Army Air Corps as a Bombardier in Italy in ^Vo^ld ^Var II. AVhile overseas, he collected the Distin­guished Flying Cross with one cluster, the Air Medal with four clusters, and the Purple Heart. 
In other changes. Bill Walsh, for­mer Irish and Pittsburgh SteeJers center was added to the staff as a line coach and Jack Landr>', fullback in 1948-50, replaced Frank (Blacky) Johnston, freshman coach who had accepted an assistant line coaching spot at the Uni­versit)' of South Carolina. 
Joe Abbott Elected Monogram Club Prexy 
Joe Abbott, '30, of Paterson, N. J., was elected president of the National Monogram Club at Notre Dame dur­ing reunion weekend. Joe, who was a track star in 1927, 1928 and 1930, succeeded Bill Earley, the recendy-re­signed Irish assistant football coach. 
Four vice presidents and two mem­bers of the board of directors were also 


16 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-Ausmt, 1955 

terback, and Charles Lima, the latter chosen. Selected from the Midwest a sophomore fullback on loan for the was Charles Samson, South Bend, day. Menil Ma\Taides added the lone present tennis coach at Notre Dame; Old Timers extra point. from the East, Larry Danbom, Wash­
In the last 20 years, this was only ington, D.C., a football player in 1935­
the third Old Timers victorj'. And 36, was chosen; from the South, the 
pessimists and optimists, with reference monogram men picked Lancaster 
to Varsity prospects in the fall, can each Smith, Dallas, Tex.; and from the 
make a point from the previous two Far AVest, Tom Kassis, of Cheyenne, 
wins. In 1950, the Old Timers won AVyo., was selected. 
25-7, and that autumn the Varsitj'lost four games. But in 1948, the Old Timers won, 20-14, and that season the 
Old Timers Score 
Varsity had a record of eight wins, no 
Win Over Varsity losses, and one tie. 
Culminating 20 days of spring foot­A possible lineup in the fall could be: ball practice, the preview of Notre Gene Kapish and Dick Prendergast Dame's 1955 football prospects took (soph) ends; WajTie Edmonds and place, Saturday, May 14, with the Gene Martell, tackles; Lemek and Pat annual Varsity-Old Timers game. The Bisceglia, guards; Jim Mense, center; latter won, 19-14. The contest was Paul Hornung, quarterback; Moree and held at School Field, in South Bend, Paul Re)'nolds, halfbacks; and Schae-.^ before a crowd of 12,000. (For the first fer, fullback. (However, Kapish, as time since its inception, die game was well as Lemek, passed up spring prac­not held in Notre Dame stadium be­tice while recovering from a knee cause the turf in the stadium is being injur>', and Re>'nolds too has been resodded.) hampered by leg troubles.) 
1955-56 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 
Dea 1 Detroit at Detroit 
Dec. 5 Wisconsin at Notre Dame 
Dec. 7 Loyola at Notre Dame 
Dec. 10 Northwestern at Evanston, 111. 
Dec. 13 Illinois at Notre Dame 
Dec. 16 Minnesota at Minneapolis, Minn. 
Dec. 21 Michigan State at East Lansing, Mich. 
Dec. 29 Sugar Bowl at New Orleans, La. 
Dec. 30 Sugar Bowl at New Orleans, La. 
Jan. 4 Butler at Notre Dame 
Jan. 7 DePaul at Notre Dame 
Jan. 11 Louisville at Notre Dame 
Jan. 16 Northwestern at Notre Dame 
Jan. 30 Indiana at Bloomington, Ind. 
Feb. 4 Loyola at Chicago Stadium 
Feb. 7 Buder at Indianapolis, Ind. 
Feb. 11 Navy at Baltimore, Md. 
Feb. 13 Holy Cross at Boston, Mass. 
Feb. 14 Providence at Providence, R. I. 
Feb. 18 Purdue at Notre Dame 
Feb. 22 Marquette at Notre Dame 
Feb. 25 DePaul at Chicago Stadium 
Feb. 29 Marquette at Milwaukee, Wis. 
Mar. 3 Bradley at Peoria, 111. 
;':,:::lig 

Notre Dame 16 Glenview 
—1954-'55 Varsity Records— 
Notre Dame 12 Northwestern . ._j is'i-? 
i.  FOOTBALL  Notre Dame Notre Dame  11 19  Purdue Indiana  .: .  25­ .1 7  
Notre Dame 21  Won 9, Lost 1 Texas  0  Notre Dame 15/2 Notre Dame 10  Michigan State Detroit .._  ....  .  _  . 20j^­ 17 .  
Notre Dame 14  Purdue  27  Notre Dame  16  Iowa  ....  _  .11  •  
Notre Dame 33 Notre Dame 20 Notre Dame 6 Notre Dame 42  PittsburghMichigan StateNavyPenn _  0  19 0 7  TENNIS Won 10, Lost 8  
Notre Dame 42  North  Carolina  13  Notre Dame  8  Marshall  .  1  
Notre Dame 34  Iowa  18  Notre Dame  0  Duke  ^...9  
Notre Dame 23  Southern  California  17  Notre Dame  0  North Carolina U. ... .....  -...  9  
Notre Dame 26  Southern  Metliodist  14  Notre Dame  9  Xavier  .  :  _..  0  
Notre Dame  6  Tennessee A. & I. ...  0  
BASKETBALL  Notre Dame  9  Marquette  0  
Notre Notre Notre Notre Notre Notre Notre Notre Notre Notre Notre  Dame 72 Dame 79 Dame 70 Dame 89 Dame 58 Dame 57 Dame 66 Dame 66 Dame 74 Dame 69 Dame 83  Won 14, Lost 10 Wisconsin NortliwestemIndianaLoyola (Chicago)PurdueIllinoisMinnesotaLoyola (South)Holy CrossLouisvilleButler 61  69  73  76  78  66  77  45  69  73  58  Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame  4 5 7 7 4 3 1 4 0 9 3 8  Indiana Purdue Cincinnati Detroit Kalamazoo Wisconsin U Michigan U Michigan State Western MichiganChicago Northwestern Iowa   ...  _ _... ...  5 4 2 2 5 4 8 5 9 6 1  
Notre Dame 93 Notre Dame 57 Notre Dame 82 Notre Dame 91 Notre Dame 79 Notre Dame 87 Notre Dame 81 Notre Dame 59 Notre Dame 76 Notre Dame 74 Notre Dame 77 Notre Dame 72 Notre Dame 85  NYUHoly CrossNorthwesternLoyola (Chicago)Michigan StateBradleyButlerTulsaKansas StateMarquetteDePaulDePaulMarquette  :.  74  93  74  83  93  63  71  74  74  84  81  61  64  TRACK Won 1, Lost 5 . Notre Dame 84 Purdue . 20 Notre Dame 34 Michigan 80 Notre Dame I6j4 Michigan State 42 J4 Notre Dame 34 Indiana 70 Notre Dame 43 Missouri 88 Notre Dame 6354 Pittsburgh 67 ^ Central Collegiate Conference — Notre Dame 55}/2 (first place). Mile, Bill Squires; high jump, Bemie Allard, 6'4"; 880, Al Schoenig; shot put, Byron Beams.  
BASEBALL  Kansas Relays—^High jump, Bemie Allard, 6'7}4".  
Won 7, Lost 10  Drake Relays—High jump, Bemie Allard, 6'754"­ 
Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame  4 2 5 15 1  Ohio StateOhio StateOhio StateGlenviewNorthwestern  ­ 3 3 6 2 8  Indiana State Meet—^Indiana, 111; Notre Dame, 72}4; Pur­due, 2514­ Mile, Squires; 880, Porter; 2-mile, Squires; mile relay, Keegan, Schoenig, Dunigan, Copeland; high jump, Bemie Allard, e'S/s"­ 
Notre Dame Notre Dame  1 2  MichiganPurdue ._  2 3  FENCING  
Notre Dame 4 Notre Dame 10 Notre Dame 10 Notre Dame 4 Notre Dame 13 Notre Dame 7 Notre Dame 4 Notre Dame 2 Notre Dame 4 Notre Dame 10  IndianaGreat LakesGlenviewWisconsinGreat LakesPurdueMichigan StateWestern MichiganMichigan StateWestern Michigan  5 4 0 6 5 4 5 0 5  15  Notre Dame 13 Notre Dame 18 Notre Dame 15 Notre Dame 13 Notre Dame 19 Notre Dame 21 Notre Dame 17 Notre Dame 14 Notre Dame 13  Won 12, lost 3 Iowa Michigan State Northwestern Iowa Buffalo Case Fenn Ohio State ...... Wisconsin  ....... 14  ._ 9 12 14 ._.. 8  _. 6 . 10  „....:.._ 13 : 14  
GOLF  Notre Dame 14 Notre Dame 15  Detroit' ......._... Wayne  13 12  

Won 5, Lost 5 Notre Dame 23 Laiwrence Tech. 4 Notre Dame 15/a Louisville ... 11/2 Notre Dame 14 Illinois 13 Notre Dame 7j4 Bradley ... 19/a Notre Dame 18 Chicago .. 9 Notre Dame 14 Western Illinois 
... 4 Notre Dame 19 Cincinnati „. 8 
Notrt Dame Alumnus, July-.AugusI, 19SS 17 

raffle of two I ickets and round trip plane fare to the N.D.-Southern Cal game at Los Angeles on 
November 26. JOE RYAN has agreed to accept the Chairmanship of the raffle. Everybody is going to get behind Joe <n order to make this a rousing.,
mnrui(€MlDt 
success. We will choosq the lucky winner at z}^ 
Ark-La-Tex 
The Club hfld ii> annual UND Niiihi Ci-lcbra­

tion on Saturday. April 16. 1955, with an all-day 
barbfquc and with tlir showing of several University 
(ihns. 
JACK CrXPLIS, JIMMY COWXES, GEORGE DESPOT, GREGORY DESPOT, JOHN DEVLIN, JOE McKEAN, VIC MARTZELL, LOUIS MOO­SSY, DICK NOWERY, and ROB ROY, with wives, friends and guests, were all present for the occasion. 
.Although a new organization, the Shrcvoport grotip is planning an active scries of events during the coming year, and the members aro anticipating an annual trip lo one of the football games each year. 
Plans were also discussed for the addition of honorary Alumni and the parents of students at the University ai new members in the local organi­zation. 
—George J. Despot, Sec>-.-Treas. 

Aurora 
At our last meeting which was held May 17 at the Lclar.d Hotel, the followimi new officers were elected for 1955-1956: President.^ TED WIEST, •27: Vice Pres., BOB KEARNS, '43; Secretar\-, JOHN ORSO, '50: and Treasurer. ROY O'NEIL, M9. 
BILL CH.WVGO, Sdiolarship Fund Chairman, gave an excellent report on this Committee's pro­gress. Our first scholarship recipient should be announced in the very near future. 
Miami vs. Notre Dame. October 7. was the game selected for our annual football ticket raffle. ROY O'NEIL, '49. is Chairman. 
Tentative plans weic made for a Familv Picnic to be held June 29. JOHN RILEY, '44, and DICK RE;\DY, '44. are co-chairmen. 
Also, the date and place of our annual Golf Outing were dlscusiied. HANK WANNER, '51, is the Chairman. 
—John OtiM>, Secretary-. 

Baltimore 
New Officers of the Baltimoro Club for the coming vear are: Pr(»ident. WILLIAM W. Hi\RT­MAN, 41: Vice Pres.. DANIEL M. O'CONNELL, '49; Sec>-., JOSEPH DUKERT, '51; and Trcas.. 
ROBERT WILLIAMS, -51. The Club just donated 
S500 to the Foundation Fund and $500 to the 
Scholarship Fund, and ihero is over S600 tn the 
Boise 
Tile club's UND Night celebration included movies :;nd a talk by JOHN a\CKLEY. Alumni and cuests attended the meeting which was held at the Countrx-Club. FR.\NC!S NEITZEL was elected president and took oRice that night. Other officers elected include: FR/\NK HICKS, vice-president: and PHILIP SHEf\, secrctar^'-trcasiirer. 
Boston 
At the UND Night celebration which featured JOHNNY JORDAN as principal speaker, one of the head table guests was Mayor John Hyncs of Boston. The mayor's son. Barr>', Is a Notre Dame student and another son. Jack, graduated several vears ago. New club directors elected include HARRY MARR, DICK HYLAXD and PAUL KLUDI.VG. 
—Mike Manzo. 

Buffalo 
Tlic most ambitious program in many a year is plannijd by netvly elected President. JACK SHINE and his slate of new officers, CY RICKARD, Vice-President. RALPH ELSE, Treasurer, and PAUL ALL^\'EIN, rc-dectcd Secretary. Four new board members were also elected: FR,\NK GAGLIONE, DICK LEOUS, JACK CONSIDINE, and JIM MOULDER. They join MAURY QUINN, FRANK BENNETT, BUS PHEIL, NICK WILLETT, and the officers to make up the Board of Directors. President Shine started the new year with a board meeting at the Hotel Sheraton on .\pril 15. 
Three money raising proposals are on the books. The Club is going to sponsor two plays over a ten day run at the Lake Shore Play House under the cliatrmanship of Lou Almasi. Then we will have our annual N. D. Night at the Races through the generosity of JI.MMY DUNNIGAN, President of the BufTalo Raceway, and the efforts of JIM CLAUSS, a past President of the Buffalo Club. What should be the biggest promotion of all is a 
BALTIMORE—Dr. J. Edmund Bradley, head of Pediatrics Dept., at University of Mary­land, M-as guest speaker on UND Ni.ijht. Others in photo are: Jim Murray (left), retiring club president, and winner of iVfan of the Year award; and William Hartnian, incoming president. 
cocktail party for which admission \rill be a book of tickets that have been sold. All the money wc make during the year goes into the scholarship fund at tho University. The Buffalo Club's goal is to build this fund into a permanent scholarship. 
NICK WILLETT suggested that the Club again sponsor a Sports Night. The Notre Dame Club's Sports Night used to be the best one tn the area but over the years it was discontinued. Tlic Board is going ahead with plans to luld one in December. Wc think it is a "natural" with the wealth of 
N.D. sports celebrities to draw on as main speakers. The affair would also give us a chanca to make a formal presentation of the *'Notre Dame Cup" which 5>'mbolizes Catholic High School football supremacy in Western New York. Our Club has been awarding this cup for years. 
The summer Stag Picnic is under the directio .?
tlon of AL KEMNFTZER and TOM RICHARDSON
3N. < ! It will be held at Cook's Paradise Grove, the same X-­location as last year. The athletes in the outfit | arc getting their legs In shapo, while the rest of lis arc limbering up our arms. The .-Mumnac wives have a Family Picnic planned for the month of June. This is always a great deal of fun. It will be held at the Automobile Club. 
A new idea will be tried in running the monthly meetings. One of the Directors will be chairman of each meeting with a member as co-chairman from September through May. They will have a free hand In bringing guests or any outside at­tractions In order to stimulate interest In the meet­
mgs. 
The last time this magazine went to press wc did not know who was to be selected Notre Dame Man of the Year. Now wc arc happy to tell you that RALPH ELSE holds the honor for 1955. Ralph. and his wife, Margaret, were genuinely surprised when Ralph was presented with the scroll on Universal Notre Dame Night. It was a fitting reward for the many years of hard work that Ralph has given for our Alma Mater. 
—Paul J. Allwein, '49, Secretary-. 

Calumet District 
After a most successful year. Prcxy JACK OGREN, 1949, and Iits crew are now making plans for another year's activities. Tentatively scheduled at the present time :s the Gulf Stag at Lake Hills Country-Club late in July; Communion Break­fast In October; the highly popular Christmas Dinner Dance on December 28th at Woodmar Coun­try' Club In Hammond; Sports Dinner in Gary* to be held late in Fcbruarv*; and the finale. Universal Notre Dame Night on Easter Monday at Phil' Smidt's in Hammond. 
In summary of this year's fzalendar. there Is little doubt in anyone's mind that the highlight of highlights was FATHER THEODORE HES­BURGH, C.S.C.. University President, in his eloquent and thought-provoking discussion of Notre Dame, past, present, and future at our Universal Notre Dame Night program. Also, the happy memories of MOOSE KR.A.USE describing in his own inimitable way, the glowing success of the University's bowling and boating program and the 'flag-dropping' officials In the SMU game, at our Sports Dinner In Gar^-, and of FATHER TOM .McDONOUGH, C.S.C, in his forceful talk at our Communion Breakfast. Tltese memories will be hard to forget, but if this year's program is only half as successful, the officers will be ver>-happy. 
Assisting Ogren in this year's planning will be JERRY GAINER, TO.M CLIFFORD and ERNIE HUFFMAN. The Board of Directors of the Club are: JAMES R. MORRISON, JAMES F. PUR­CELL and WILLIAM J. RILEY. 
—Emic Huffman, Sec>'. 

Capital District 
An otherwise defunct Capital District Club was resurrected on April 16 with a meeting on Universal Notre Danic Night. Dinner vvas held at WooUert's Roost Countrv Club, Albanv. Prin­cipal guest was FATHER JOHN MURPHY, C.S.C., who is associated with Father Peyton's Family Rosary movement. Father Murphy con­sented to be club chaplain. 
Officers elected were: C. F. REGAN, '27, presi­dent; E. F. McCUVRNON, '28, vice-president; 

Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August^ 1955 

CALUMET DISTRICT—William L. Tra^-is (left), was honored as Man of the Year. Others in photo arc: Tim Galvin, member of the University's Lay Trustee board; Father Hesburgh, principal speaker; and President Jack Ogrcn. 
THOMAS A. CLEMENTE, '48, trtaMircr; and WILLIAM H. IVIMEY, '5i. stcniary. JOHN CMVMPRELL was named cliairman of the Board of Governors. 
The rejuvenated organisation launched plans for several activities including a retreat, a picnic and fonnal affair. The club's new officers have gotten the ball nilling and several meetings have been held for relining plans and amplifying projects. 
—William H. I\imcy, *54, Secretary*. 
Central Florida 
Members from the Central Florida club attend­ing the first annual convention of Xotre Dame Clubs in Florida held on April 22-24 at the Sea Ranch Hotel In Ft. Lauderdale, Florida were: Mr. and Mrs. ROY B. L.\UGHLIX, DON SMYTH, D.WID SMYTH, Mr, and Mrs. JOE KEEFE and .Mr. and Mrs. RIGLEY. 

IMans are under way for many friends and Alumni of Notre Dame from Central Florida, to attend the Miami football game in October and help welcome the Fighting Irish to Florida for the first time. 
—Don Smyth, M9, Scc>--Trcas, 

Central Illinois 
The Notre Dame Club of Central Illinois ob­served Universal Notre Dame Night on .April 18, 1955, in the Lake Room of the Leiand Hotel, Springfield, Illinois. The evening's festivities started with a cocktail hour at 6:30 P.M. and dinner followed at 7:30. The club Is greatly in­debted to ROBERT F. ERVIN, Assistant Director of the University's world famed LOBUND Institute, for his splendid after dinner speech on the research techniques of the institute in the raising of germ-free animals. He also emphasized the theme of this year's observance, **Thc Grou-ing Crisis in Private Higher Education.*' 
Tlie club's annual election was held and the new candidates to office are: Pricsident, EDW.ARD COLE.MAN; Vice-president, ED MAHONEY; Secretary, BOB KEXNEY; and Treasurer, TOM 
R. HOLLAND, all of Springfield. 
The committee in charge of arrangements was: ED COLEMAN, J/\.MES COSTA, CHARLES COR­CORAN, TOM Via\RS and ED MAHONEY. 
—Michael J. Besso 

Central New Jersey 
About 40 alumni enjoyed the wonderful concert given by the Notre Dame Glee Club in Perth .Amboy on April 13. More than 900 people at­tended the concert. In making arrangements for the affair, it-resulted in our holding a Universal Notre Dame Night meeting on April 18 in Perth Amboy. It .was the first time in about 10 years that the Central New Jersc>' Club had sponsored such an event. 
—Gilbert Augustine 

Central New York 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated Mon­day, April 18, 1953 with a dinner-dance held at the Univcrsitv Club of Syracuse. H. PHILIP SHE/\X and KEVIN H/VRRIGAN as co-chairmen did an outstanding job in providing a fitting cele­bration for this respected occasion which found approximately 120 Notre Dame alumni, wives and friends in attendance. 
F.ATHER JOE BARRY., a native Syracusan and presently Pastor of Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame was the guest speaker. We were also 
CHICAGO—UND Night guests included (left to right) Joe McCabc, new president; Father Riley, guest speaker; Admiral Gallery, guest speaker; and Emmett Wright, vice president. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ Juiy-Aue-istt I9S5 

Chicago 
JOE McGABE, dub president, has outlined actinties for the coming year as follows: J 
1.
 Golf Outing—DON HOGAN, '42, chainnan, Elmhurst Country Club, Monday, July 11. Be sure and mark it on your calendar for golf and dinner. 

2.
 Anmial Communion Breakfast—PHIL FAC­CENDA, '51, chairman, will be ready to handle the spiritual side of tlio club's activities in Decem­ber. 

3.
 Chicago Club Alumni Directory—BILL KEN­NEDY, '37, chairman will bring out a new edition of the Directory brining it up-to-date. 

4.
 Social Event for November (Dance)—is in the preliminary planning stages. 

5.
 Prep School Committee—JIM FERSTEL, '48. was newly appointed vice-council under FRANK MILLIGAN, '45, clialrman. This committee staffs prep school college day programs to interest the students in Notre Dame. 


G. Scholarship Found?tion—GIL SEAMAN, '31, ' was appointed to fill the \'ac3nc>' created by A. C. STEPH/\N'S, 'W, death as treasurer of the Scholarship Foundation. TOM Mca\BE, '22, and RICHARD NASH, '23, were appointed to scn-e on this Board as directors for four year terms. 
7. Educational Program—a new venture to keep the alumni informed on the changing world problems will be inaugurated. * Professors from different departments of the University will speak at informal meetings at the Sheraton Hotel to any of the club's membership that wishes to attend. 
JJ. Students' Reception—In the fall of the year the club 'will hold an open house for the incoming freshmen and their fathers. 
9. Distinguished Professors Progra m — BILL C:\REY of the Notre Dame Foundation will move into the club's office at 38 So. Dearborn to con- «. tinue the drive for funds to expand the Distinguished Professors Program. 
Thomas P. Brogan 

Cincinnati 
The following arc the acti\-ities of the Cincinnati 
COLUMBUS—Ralph Guglielmi receives special trophy from almnni club on UND Night. 
Club for the month of May: 
Governor Frank Lauschc made the presentation. 
On May 3rd, JACK BRODBERGER, president and DICK SCALL/VX, Cincinnati Chairman of the 
fortunate to have with us Mr. and Mrs. Ivan 
Mestroiic and Mr. and Mrs. Tiieodore Hesburgh. 
CENTRAL ILLINOIS—Professor Robert Er\-in (right) was guest speaker from Notre Dame, 
Mr. Mcstrovic, an internationally famous sculptor, 
on UND Night in Springfield. Others in group are: (left to right) Rev. John J. McGrath, 
recently recaved a permanent appointment to 
Notre Dame under the distinguished professors 
club chaplain; retiring president Michael J. Besso; Edward Coleman, program inaugurated last year. Mr. and Mrs. new president; and Ervin. Hesburgh are, of course, the parents of FATHER TED, President of the University. Needless to say, Universal Notre Dame Night was an immense success here in Syracuse and thorough­ly enjoyed by all present. —Donald J. Klec, Secy.-Trcas. 
Chattanooga 
On May 2nd the Notre Dame Club of Chatta­nooga met for a barbeque supper and meeting on the Marguerite II (the 42 foot Chris Craft owned by Terrell Electric Company—JOHN TERRELL *38, President). 
The occasion was Father Tom O'Donnell's visit to Chattanooga. The meeting was overdue by about six monttis; consequently, we had three new mem­bers to w*eIcome aboard:TOM SEAMAN, coacli at Notre Dame High Scliool; JOHN BORDA, Amer­ican Cyauamid and MATT McINERNEY with Kenny Construction Company. 
Soon after we left the dock it was apparent tliat the boat was low in the water and in danger of sinking. In an effort to lighten the load the mem­bers consumed two cases of beer and itbout fifteen pounds of barbecue as well as various side dishes and dessert. 71i& boat did not founder but the same cannot be said for several of the members of the club. 
Father O'Donnell made a short talk on the problems facing the University today which was well recei\*ed and greatly appreciated. Plans were also made for a summer dance and tentative plans were drawn for a Miami trip. 
The meeting finally developed or regressed into a typical Notre Dame bull session. —Tom Owen, Fres. 

20 Notrf Dame Alumnus^ July-August, 1955 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—Alumni attending the Notre Dame glee club concert are (left to right): Anthony Giuffrc^ John Rc^er, Edward Pheiffcr, Dr. William Gadek, John Lisicki, Father James Norton (Vice-President of Student Affairs at Notre Dame), Dr. George McDonnell, Anthony V. Ceres, Gilbert Augustine and Vincent McKeough. The club held a UND Night meeting the following evening. 
Foundation, presented JOHN MacCAULEY, Region­
' al Chainnan of the Foundation Fund, a check for $2,000.00 for use in the CIub*s Scholarship Fund at Notre Dame. The presentation was made at a dinner at the Ifyde Park Country Club. On ^fay 10th, tlie Chib held a cocktail and dinner meeting at the Hotel Alms. A new slate of Ofiicers was elected for the coming year. They arc: President, BOB McCAFFERTY; Vice President. RAY GUDMANS; Treasurer, AVALT HEEKIN, JR.; Secretary. DICK A'HEARN. Plans ^vere made for a dance to be held some time this summer. —Dick A'Heam, '44, Sec>-. 
Columbus 
The Notre Dame Glee Club Concert held on 
. April 16th—Universal Notre Dame Night in Co­lumbus—netted over $1400. All of the proceeds are being held in trust for the establishment of a scholarship fund. Deserving young men from this area witb. an ambition to attend Notre Dame but financially unable, will be assisted with this fimd. 
TERRY BRENNAN, ED "^fOOSE" KRAUSE. and BILL E/VRLEY occupied the seats of honor at the May 25tb club dinner. Everyone got a great deal of enjo>-mcnt out of meeting, listening to, and talking with these three. We hope this visit will be repeated again and again. 
AL EICHENLAUB, chairman of the extremely successful Michigaa State Football Special last fall, is again preparing to open a part-time Indiana travel agency for Central Ohioans. This year, the troinlood from the Columbus area -will attend tjie October 29lh Navy game at South Bend. 
—Larry Stember. Secretary 

Dallas 
The first visit from the inoumbent president, the announcement of a $2,400 club scholarship and a record turnout were hJ^Hghts of the DSU M Club's Universal Notre Dame Night dinner on April 26. 
For the first time in club history the pre^dent of the University was ia attendance at Univerga] Notre Dame Night and some 120 alumni and friends turned out for the occasion. Because of ipace limitations Ic the beautiful new Dallas Club the fiinner was st ^ but even so the diniuff room could barely aorommodate the crowd which turned out to hear the REV. THEODORE M. HES­BURGH, C.S.C. Father Hesburgh was honored at a reception prior to the dinner and nude m lasting impression wth his address on the academic problems and advancements made by the Umverdty. 
Outgoing president JOHN J. MORAN presided at the dinner whldi was attended by His Excellency Bishop Thomas K. Gorman of the Dallas-Ft. Worth diocese. Climaxing several years of effort, president Moran announced the establishing of a four year, $2,400 club scholarship to Notre Dame, and pre-
CENTRAL NEW YORK—.\lunini celebrated UND Night in Syracuse with Father Joe Barry, C.S.C., as guest speaker from the University. (Left to right); Tom Ryan, president; Mrs. Ryan; Rev. John Harrison; Mrs. Theodore Hesbui^h and Mr. Hcsburgh, parents of Father Hcsburgh; Msgr. Joseph Toomey; Father Barry; Prof. Ivan Mestrovic; Mrs. Mcstrovic; Rev. Frank Harrison; Mrs. H. Philip Shcan; "Hoby" Shean, chainnan. 
Sotre Dame Alumnust July-AMgtut, 1955 21 

Denver 
Universal Noire Dame Night was held on April 18 at the Mt. Vernon Countrv- Club. A diiincr­dancc was the evening's program and approximately 80 people attended. DR. EDWARD DELEH,\NT\­was chairman of the an*air and lie was assisted by JUDGE FR.\NTZ and BOB MOLLOY. Rev. Frederick J. Mann, C.S5.R. received the Man-of-tlic-Ytar award. Two Noire Dame scholarships were awarded by the club to Karl Chambers and Patrick G. Moran, both of Denver. The second scholarship was instituted by contributions from club members. 
Father Mann is the first priest to be honored as Man-of-the-Year in Denver and was chosen because of his service to the community and because he t)-pifics the ideals of Noire Dame. 
—^T«m Gargan 

Detroit 
New officers elected are: ARTHUR D. CRONIN, JR., president; JA.\!ES J. BYRNE, 1st vice-presi­dent; WILLIA.M C. RONEY, JR., 2nd vice-presi­dent; EDWARD A. GAGE, secretary; and JOSEPH 
H. a\REY, treasurer. 
Events planned for the coining year include: Golf Party—^Junc; Summer Festival—.August; Football Trips—September, October, November; Communion Breakfast—December; Christmas Dance—December; Manressa Retreat—Februarj-; Annual Meeting— 
CINCINNATI—The club presented §2,000 to the University for the Scholarship Fund. {Left March; and UND Night—April. to risht); President Jack Brodbergcr; John MacCauley, of the Notre Danic Foundation; and UND Night featured Dr. Kenneth McFarland. Richard Scallan, ND Foundation City Chairman. educational consultant and lecturer for General .Motors, und FATHER JOHN J. aWANAUGH, C^.C , as principal speakers. E. C. Quinn, vice-president of the Chrysler Corporation, was toast­master and Joseph H. Carey was chairman of 
sented Father Hesburgb with a clieck to inaugurate THOMAS BRENNAN, C.S.C., as the principal arrangements. 
the scliolarship program. Tlic scliolarship is open speaker. DICK KING, *37 was presented with to graduates of accredited Catholic high school-, the past president's plaque by JERRY WAYNO. in Northeast Texas. Chairman of the affair was Jerr>- Wavno assisted 
Eastern Illinois 
Highlights of the president's annual report were by JERRY G.\SS and AL BZDULA. PETE KER-the establishing of a women's auxiliar>' during the NAN, "49, was honorary* chainnan. Summer The Notre Dame Club of Eastern Illinois held year, the appointing of the Rt. Rev. Msgr. William activities in prospect include the annual picnic in their annual banquet .April 12lh here at Danville, 
F. O'Brien. V.G.. as the club's first chaplain, the June witli JOE KR.\MER and BILL HOLDEN, with the main item of business being the election inauguration of communion suppers, the first annual '45, in charge, welncr Roast and Dance in July of officers foi our club. LES HAHNE, M9, one of meeting to which undergraduates, new freslimen to be handled by the wives of the officers and the most outstanding alumni from this ' area was and their fathers were invited and the scries of directors, and the 2nd Annual Golf Partv in elected president; EDWARD LAYDEN, '42, was successful events sponsored in conjunclion with .August httded bv JOHN SCHAEFER, '49. and unanimously elected vice-president; RJVLPH DAL-the Southern Melhodist-Notre Danie game in Dec. JOHN PR.\WDCIK, M6. TON, *3I, financial genius, was re-elected treasurer; 
New officers installed were: JOSEPH M. 

—Clem Constantine, Scc>-. and yours truly was re-elected secretary. HAGGAR, JR., president: J- M. REICHE.\STEIN, JR.. first vice-president; WARREN N. HIGGINS, secretary and JOSEPH P. RUD, treasurer. JAMES P. SWIIT, attorney and one of the DALLAS—^John J. Moran (right) retiring president, presents a check for $2400 to the Rev. club founders who has long been active in Notre Theodore M. Hcsburgh, C.S,C., to establish a scholarship. Father Hcsburgh was principal Dame affairs, was chosen Man of The Year. 
speaker on UND Night. Joseph M. Haggar, Jr., incoming president is at left. 
The Notre Dame Club of Dallas .\uxiliary held an informal dance, benefiting the mens" Scholarship Fund at tlic Dallas Country Club on June 25. The outstanding feature of this dance was the 

^MmmmmM 
majority of "patron" tickets ai $15.00 per couple. Over 150 couples attended the gala affair. This gives great credit to our Auxiliary* organization. 
—Buddy Goldman 
Dayton 
The officers elected for the coming year arc as follows: Presid^mt. LEO CONDRON; Xlce-prcsidcnt. WILLLAM MacMILLrVN, JR.; Secrctar.- HARRY WOI^LVN; and treasurer, ANDY AMAN. 
Leo Condron not only was re-elected as president of the club, but was also selected by the member­ship as recipient of the club's Man-of-thc-Year aivard. 
Wc had the pleasure of TERRY BRENNAN*S company at a luncheon on May 19 at Suttmilters Restaurant at wliicli we had a very fine turnout. 
—Harr>' ^Vo^nan 
Dearborn 
Tlie officers of the Dearborn Club for 1955-5G art:: JERRY WAYNO, M7, president; JERRY GASS, '48, vice-president; CLEM CONSTANTINE, '46, secretary; and LARRY DOLAN, '47, treasurer. 
Activities for the year got off to a good start on Sunday, May 1, with the Annual Communion Breakfast. Approximately fifty members, guests and wives attended mass at St. Bcrnadette's Clmrdi and breakfast at the Dearborn Inn with FATHER 
22 Notrt Dame AlumnuSy July-August^ 1955 
^•.1 
•* 

The Notre Dame man of ilic year award was presenlcd to Senator JOHN P. MEYER, '43, for exemplary cliaractcr and sunsclfish work for our 
iLcIub. Because of committee work at the State Capital Senator Meyer was unable to attend, but the award was accepted by the Honorable Judge FR/VNK P. MEYER, *42, for his brother. 
A Steering Committee to oversee all phases of the Club's work for the year was formed, and in­cludes FATHER C. B. MOTSETT, '33; JOHN P. BELTON, '33; JOHN J. YOUNG, '32; ERNEST SEDLMAYR, '48; RICHARD DIETZEN, '49; and ROBERT WICKHAM, '54. We were honored at the meeting by the presence of RICHARD HEND­RICKS, '56, and TOM KING, '58, future members of our organization, and also Paul Shebby, football coach at Schlarman Catholic High School here in Danville. 
Special recognition was given our retiring presi­dent, LES FAHEY, '42. It has been noted by all that Lcs has raised the status of our club to one 
- of the most prominent here in Danville. He re­' ccived a standing o\'ation from all members of the club. After viewing the film highlights of the Notre Dame football season, we adjourned our meeting. —W. R. Morris, Secretary 
Elkhart 
The Elkhart Club held an election night meeting on May 23 with the following new officers: AL SPAHN, president; AUSTIN GILDEA, vice-presi­dent; and JAMES CAVANAGH, secrctar>--treasurcr. New director:) elected for the club are: JIM ASHE, GENE BRO\\*N, RICHARD MILLER and C- J. HOOLEY. The meeting was held at the Hotel Elkhart and featured the Football Highlights of 1954 and a new campus movie entitled, "Shake Down the Thunder." JOHN CrVCKLEY from the 
, Alumni OfHce discussed potential student enroll­ment at the University. 
Erie 
Some notes from the Erie Club—Mr. and Mrs. JACK YOUNG (1951) arc the parents of a baby daughter. Mar>% born on Mother's Dav. May 8, 1955. Mr. and .Mrs. WILLUM GRANT (1945) are the proud parents of a third son, Christopher Michael, born in February of this year. DONALD BU5ECK (1955) will marry Frances Quinn of Eric on June 25. 1955. MARK BERENS (Law-School, 1952) and "SPARKY'* THORNTON will 
attend the wedding. Saw LEO BRUGGER (class of 1934} the other day, he is with the Brugger and Sons Funeral Home. 
Tlic Executive Board of the Eric Club met for dinner on May I3th to discuss the coming summer picnic and the forming of an auxiliary* composed of the wives of the Erie Club members. 
—Thomas J. McCarthy, Secretary* 

Evansvilie 
The Nctre Dame Club of Ex'ansnile held its fourth annual holiday party at The Kokies on Saturday, Januar\' 8, 1955. As in the past, the program included an hour mixer period followed by a buffet dinner and dandng. In addition to members from the Tri-State area, we had with us on this occasion Mr. Ed. Leorux of Tulsa, Oklahoma, as the guest of PAUL THOLE. 
On April 18 we celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night in the new Sterling Brewery Rathskeller. 
RALPH HEGER was cliosen by a committee as the Notre Dame man of the year. The award was presented by ED KEMPF in his usual fine fashion. Mr. Heger is active in numerous cine organizations and is the Vice President of the Sterling Brewery, Inc. He is also the head of the Notre Dame Foundation for the Tri-State area. 
An interesting side light took place with the E\-ansvillc Club's presentation of a B & B award. The award was made to BOB and BABE L.\.MEY in recognition of their continued effort in pro­viding another of their "Bountiful BufTeis" for this event. 
The Club's officers for the coming year are: ED MATTHE\VS, President; FRED DE\VES, Vice-President; BOB LONDERGAN, Treasurer, and DON HALLER, Secretary. 
—Don Haller/ Secretary 

Flint 
The Second Annual Notre Dame Night of the Flint Notre Dame Club was held Thursday evening, .-^pril 28, at the Atlas Valley Country Club. Dinner was ser\'ed at 5c\*en o'clock with eighty-seven mem­bers and guests present. The Man of the Year av*ard went to DR. DAN H. SHEERxVN for his services to the Club and the community during the year, together with his standing as an individual, family man, and in his profession. 
Tlic speaker of the evening was the Right Rev­erend ^r l V. Sheridan, Pastor of St. Michael's Church, Flint. He said he felt like a Notre Dame Alumnus, as he had attended a conference for five days on tlie campus on Boy's Work. He talked about the deep faith that Notre Dame instilled in its students and expressed the hope that this Club could encourage more boys from this area to attend Notre Dame. He urged upon the grcnip the practical application of their faith In community scr\-ice. He was introduced by Attorney JAMES 
M. PEARSON, who acted as Toastmastcr. ' 
It was announced by ^fr. Pearson that the first excursion to Notre Dame from Flint would be made to the Notre Dame-S.M.U. game on Sep­tember 24th. Tentatively 500 tickets have been promised by the University for this excursion. 
Three honorary memberships were given out to friends of Notre Dame for their interest in the local club. Dr. Joseph Macksood, John Hoholik and Claude Darby, Senior. Plans were also formulated for a Golf Stag Party In the near future. 
—Ted Sfanyak, Secretary 

Fort Smith 
The annual Notre Dame Night was celebrated by the Fort Smith Notre Dame Club on April 20, 1955 by a dinner meeting at the Goldman Hotel, attended by Club members and wives. Mayor He-stand of the City of Fort Smith, and ecclesiastical, commercial, professional and industrial representa­tives of the city. 
At 8:30 p.m., following the dinner, an invocation 
DETROIT—New officers include (left to right): Joseph Carey, treasurer; James Byrne, first vice-president; Arthur D. Cronin, president; William Roney, second vice-president; and Edward Gage, secretary. 
Xotre Dame Alumnus^ July-August, 195$ 

EVANSVILLE—^Ncw dub officers are: (seated, left to right): Ed Matthews, president; Fred Dcwcs, vice president. (Standing, left to right): Don Haller, secretary; and Bob Londergan, treasurer. 
by the Club Chaplain, FATHER OTTO BUTTER­BACH; Toastmastcr, JOHN P. MURPHY welcomed the assembly and introduced RAYMOND A. MARRE who explained the significance of Univer­sal Notre Dame Night, and went on to describe the expansion in educational facilities, under the program sponsored by the Notre Dame Foundation for the addition of 54 distinguished professors and professional men to the faculty. He then in­troduced the guest speaker of tlic evening, DEAN JAMES E. MCCARTHY, ©r tlic CoUegc of Com­merce at tlic University of Notre Dame 
Tremendous applause from tlie :q>preciative audience followed the excellent talk by Dean McCarthy. 
Another highlight of the evening was the an­nouncement by Toastmaster Murphy that Raymond 

24 Notre Dame AlumnuSf Jvly-Auc^tst, 1955 
Marrc had been selected as the Notre Dame Man of the Year of this area. The Toastmaster re­quested Dean McCarthy to present the tcstimonal certificate. Jn making the presentation Dean Mc­Carthy spoke of the high esteem in which Raymond is held at Notre Dame, and said that he felt no Notre Dame man in the country is more entitled to the honor he was now so- happy to. bestow. 
The meeting was adjourned at 9:15 p. m., after a closing prayer by Father Butterbach. Thirty-six Notre Dame Club members and wives were in attendance, and sixty-five guests. 
After the meeting, members of the Notre Dame Club and tlieir wives were inntcd by Mrs. Mont Ecliols to her home for a socual gathering in honor of Dean ^^cCa^thy. 
—Tom Koran, '32, Secretary 

Fort Wayne 
UND Night was celebrated at the Elk*s Country j Club with a capacity crowd of alumni and guests who listened to an excellent address by ^\ssistant Dean EDMUND A. SMITH of Notre Dame's Col­lege of Commerce. DONNELLY P. McDONALD, JR., received the club*s Man-of-lhc-Ycar award. Toastmaster for ' the event was JEROME J. O'DOAXT) and chairman u-as EDWARD Du-QUETTE. Following tlic formal program members enjoyed an evening of dancing. 
—Robirt Kearney, President 

Georgia 
FATHER ALFRED MENDEZ, C.S.C., placement director at Notre Dame, was featured speaker at the dub's UND .Night meeting. ROBERT S. LYNCH, president of the Atlantic Steel Company, was presented the ^fan-of-tlle-Ycar award from the • alumni dub. Toastmaster for the evening was HARRY AVRIGHT, former AU-Amcrican football star at Notre Dame and now assistant coach at the University of Georgia. Tlie invocation was given by Rev. \1nccnt Brennan, S.Nf. The event was held at the Atlanta Athletic Club and was attended bv a capacity crowd of alumni and guests. Club president WILLIAM H. RICKE welcomed the group to the dinner. 
—Ed Abrams, Secretar>­

Grand Rapids 
FATHER JOHN J. CWANAUGH, C.S.C., di­rector of the Notre Dame Foundation, was the prin­cipal speaker at the Grand Rapids UND Night celebration on May 16. JOHN L. FLrVNAGAN was the Man-of-thc-Ycar recipient. He has ser\'ed,. as a member of the Board of Directors and is past president of the organization. Tlie award was pre­sented by Joseph ifoore, president of the club. Edward L. Twohcy serx'cd as toastmaster of the •ffair. 
Club officers for the coming year include JOSEPH MOORE, rc-dccted as president; CHARLES ^V. DUFFY, \icc-prcsidcnt; GER.\LD R. HOUSEMAN, sccrctar>-; and ED^VARD T^VOHEY, treasurer. New directors for three-year terms are: RICHARD 
D. >fcCORMICK, Edward Twohcy and Gerald Houseman 
Harrisburg 
ED KRfVUSE, director of athletics at Notre Dame, was principal speaker at the club's UXD Night party. JOE KURTH served as master ol '-' ceremonies. About 90 alumni and guests attended the affair. 
New officers include JOHN W. DAVIS, president; AHLLTAM A. O'CONNOR, 1st vice-president; JEi\N A. BUTZ, 2nd nce-president; JOHN P. SINKOVITZ, 3rd Wce-prcsidcnl; J. R. GR.\HAM, secrctar\-; pJid JOSEPH J. KURTH, treasurer. 
TIic Harrisburg Club held its annual corporate Communion Breakfast at St. Margaret ^larv-'s Church ou December 12. It was attended by alum­ni, their wives and children and ^^a5s and Holy Communion u-as offered espedallv for the late JOE FARRELL. 
FATHER JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, CS.C, di­rector of the Notre Dame Foundation, stopped in Harrisburg for a luncheon-meeting \Wth alumni and friends on March 28. He was en route to they l Army War College Forum, Carlisle, Pa. 
—J. R. GRAH.\M, Secretary 

Honolulu 
The Alumni Club celebrated UND Night with a dinner party which was attended by alumni and guests. Members in attendance included several of those stationed here on military duty. These men are always most welcome but are hard to contact. Father Charles Kekumano, Chancellor of the Honolulu Diocese and unde of HENRY NYE, JR., *50, was the prindpal speaker. Mr. and ^frs. TONY GONZALEZ, '25, whose son is a Notre Dame student, were visiting in Hawaii and attended the meeting. The Gonzalez' live in Manila, P. I. Club president, THOMAS W. FLYNN, '35, was a speaker on the program in addition to Fathrt^*' Kekumano. 
—^\Mlliam K. Hanifin 

Indianapolis 
_,.DENVER—Club officers at UND Night include Dr. Philip J. Clarke (standing), president; John D. Ryan (left), vice-president; and Leo Robidoux, secretary. Absent from photo is Treasurer Jerr>- AL Shea. 
Houston 
On Wt'dnesday evening, April 21, a hundred and seventy members and guests of the Ilouslim Club assembled at River Oaks Counir>- Club to honor FATHER HESBURGH and celebrate Universal Xoirc Dame Night. 
Chairman of this function whicli drew the largest attendance in the histor\- of Houston Club Univer­sal cclebrstious, u-as T. GEORGE McHALE who also presided at the dinner. Father Hesburgh's address on Notre Dame—Past, Present and Future —M-as cxlrcinely interesting to both Ahmini and 
y friends. At the speaker's table as special guests were; Rt. Rev. John J. Cassata, Vicar-Ceneral of the Galveston Diocese and Rev. V. J. Gm'nan, Presi­dent of St. Thomas University, Houston. Intro­duced were the oiTicers-elecl of the Club: DONALD 
F. O'BRIEN, President; T. GEORGE McHALE, Vice-President; HUGH J. Rx\FFERT\*, Secretary-; and B. N, BROCKMAN, JR., Trexsurer. 
A scroll was presented by the Club to MRS. LEO E. LINBECK, for outstanding service ren­dered during the past year as President of the Ladies' Auxiliary. A scroll was also presented on behalf of the Notre Dame Foundation to LAWRENCE J. KELLEY, Houston Foundation Chairman, acknowledging the substantial increase shown during 19D4 in contributors from the Houston area. 
V .\$ a highlight of the program. THONLXS B. 
• BRENNAN, on behalf of the Club, presented Father Hesburgh with a check for twenty-five hundred dollars, money which had been raised through Club cfFort in promoting a special train to the Southern Mcliodist game last fall. 
At the conclusion of the evening the Club and Ladies* .Auxiliary, in apreciation, presented P.\UL and .MARY LU DOYLE with a beautiful silver I ray. 
Idaho Falls 
A neu- alumni club was organized in Idaho Falls recently with members attending from that city as well as Dillon, Montana, Pocatcllo, Idalio, and Utackfoot, Idaho. The meeting was held in the home of .Mr. and Mrs. JA.MES BR.\DY, '29, which included movies of the University and a brief talk by JOHN C-ACKLEY concerning alumni club organization. JIM BRcVDY was elected president and ROBERT BAUCH.M.VX was elected secretary. Wives of alumni also were in attendance. Xotrc Dainc men wjio were present included: DAVID HAGENBARTH, Dillon, Montana: BRUCE MARK­HAM, Pocatello; HUGH TUOHV, Blackfoot; ROBERT BAUCH.MAX, WALTER BAUCHNLVN, JOHN ZIEBARTH, EDWARD R,\DDATZ and JI.M BR.ADY, Idaho Falls. Guests from the Boise Club included: THONWS J. JONES, JR., Foundation Governor in Idalio, PAUL KOHOUT, retiring president of the Boise Alumni Club, and ROBERT ERKIXS. Members who were unable to be present that evening were J. ROBE BRADV, JOHN P. .McDER-MOTT, JOHN McMULLEN, CHARLES ZIEBARTH and "TED" ODEN. 
New ofHcers for this year include: JOHN C 
O'CONNOR, president; THO.\IAS M. SWEENEY, 
vice-president; RICHARD E. McCALLEY, secre­
tary; and JOSEPH M. McNAMARA, treasurer. 
.Vew directors arc: WILLIA.\t FO.V, JR., and 
JOSEPH GILLESPIE. 
William F. Fox, Jr., sports editor for the 
Indianapolis News, received the club's Man-of-the-
Year award at the UND Night .party which 
featured an address by the REV. THEODORE M. 
HESBURGH, CJs.C, president of the University. 
Frank E. Deal, Catholic high school senior, was 
named recipient of the club's four-year scholarship 
award. 
Jackson 
The Notre Dame Club of Jackson celebrated its 
first formal birthday on May 2 in conjunction with 
the celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
DEAN JAMES E. .McaVRTHY was our speaker 
for the evening. . Tlic meeting was held in the 
Crv'Stal Room of the Hotel Hayes with Just under 
100 in attendance. Program chairman BILL 
DOTTERWEICH presented the President, BLAIR 
MCGOAVAN, who made a few remarks about the 
purpose of the evening and a summary ot our 
completed year. Tliis summar>' included our 
initial Universal Notre Dame Night meeting of 
last year when we were visited by JOHN CACK­
LEV. 
During the summer we had a stag picnic The ­
fall football trip was well attended. Our belated 
Communion breakfast was held ^farch 27 at which 
time we had Michigan's Lt. Gov. Phillip Hart 
scheduled as a speaker. Due to illness, Mr. Hart 
was unable to attend but the breakfast group, 
numbering 75, was addressed briefly by Fr. John 
II. Dougherty, Pastor of the Queen of the Miracu­lous Nfedal parish in Jackson. x\t the conclusion of the summary, Blair introduced James Gerity who in turn presented the Dean. The Dean spoke ver>" interestingly on the subject of "Communica­tions" to the apparent enjo>'ment of the group. 
The ofHcers and directors for the past year were retained for another vear. They are as follows: President, BL.UR .McGOW.\N; Vice-President, HOWARD WTJRTH; Treasurer, EDWARD COL­BERT; Secretary, JOHN LINDBERG; Directors. BILL DOTTERWEICH, JAMES .MORTELL, JOSEPH BEH,VN, LYM.AN HILL, LEON RUS­SELL, and C. J. HARTMAN. 
—John Ltndberg, Secy. 

Jollet 
EDWTN H. KING was presented the Notre Dame Man-of-thc-Year award at the UND Night banquet which featured TERRY BREN'N.AN as guest speak­er. John Carmichael, Chicago Dally News sports editor, was toastmaster. The club^s most \*aluable player award was given to Jim Kavanaugh, tackle on the Jolict Catholic High School football team last season. Present and former Notre Dame ath­letes introduct:d included: GEORGE CO.VXOR, BILL WIGHTKIN, PAUL ^L\TZ, DON SCHAE­FER, LEROY LESLIE and ERNIE Z.\LEJSKI. 
Kalamozoo 
Election of club officers was held at the March 17th meeting at the Burdick Hotel in Kalamazoo. The following were elected: ARTHUR MUL­HOLL/\ND, JR., '37, President; PAUL OXON­NELL, '44, Pres.-EIcct; JOHN PRIHODA, '49. Secrctarv-; and GIL GAUDIE, '31. Treasurer. 
Our UND Night Dinner was held April 13th at the Burdick Hotel in Kalamazoo. JOHN GOON­EN, '48, basketball coach at St. .Augustine's High School, Kalamazoo served as toastmxster. The REV. JAMES P. DOLL, C.S.C., of LOBUND was guest speaker. He gave a ver\* interesting and amusing talk with the aid of color slides from the germ-free laboratory, ^^embers. wives and guests numbered 123. 
JAMES MAHONEY, '48, Past President, pre­sented Father Doll tvith a check for $500.00 for the UND Foundation. 
—John Prihoda, Secy. 

Kansas City 
-Vew officers inchide: RUSSELL J. FARRELL, president: EDW.ARD AYLWARD, vice-president; ROBERT NIGRO, secretarv-; and JACK H.\YES, 
Notre Dame Atumnm, July-August, 1955 2S 

FORT SMITH—Guests al head table on UND Night were (left to right): Mrs. Marre; Ray Marre, winner of the Man of Year award; Mrs. Murphy; Club President John Murphy; Dean Janics E. McCarthy, featured speaker; C. F. Byrns. newspaper editor; Mrs. Byms; Club Chaplain Father Buttcrbach; and Mayor H. R. Hestand. 
treasurer. A Conununion Breakfa-i-t was held on 
June 19 at the Xotrc Dame Dc Sion School and 
TO.M McGEE and JACK POWELL were co-chair­
men. 
The summer picnic i- scheduled for August 20 

at the Nelly Don Club House with the same 
arrangements made as Ixst year for a IM'B get­
logi-ther of alumni and students. HERB ZIEGLER 
Is chairman. The Freshman Send-Off Dinner Is 
slated for Septend)er 8 at which lime the announce­
ment will be made concerning the winner of the 
club's scholarship award, Ed .-\ylward is chairman 
and i.^ assisted bv CRvMG WHITAKER and BOB 
.METZLER. 
The club's foothball trip wliicli will be to the 

Notre Danie-Xaiy game on October 29 will be 
cbairmaniied by Bob Meuler. .-Ml prtnieeds go to 
the scholarship ftmd. 
Hob Mculer was presented a desk set and 

plaque of appreciation by the club for his two 
years' service ; s prt-sident and his promotion of 
the scholarship fund which now totals $8,000, 
— Robert Nigro, Scc>*. 

Kentucky 
Thf Fifth .Annual Essav Contest entitled. "WIIY 

A CATHOLIC COLLEGE EDUCATION" spon­
sored by the Noire Dame Club of Kentucky. In­
cluded as participants this year the students of 
Our Lady of Providence High School. New .Albany. 
Indiana in addition to Saint Xavier and Flaget High 
Schools. Louisville. The winners were: Dale Voigt. 
0«r Lady'.s: Robert .Adelberg. St. Xavier; and 
Gerald Oesweln. Placet. Each was awarded a 
Gold Key Chain Medal. 
Judcing th? contest this vear were: C. R. 

WILLENBRINK, retiring President; JOSEPH HAR­
MO.V, now Ct!ib President; and WALTER WAG­
NER, a prouilneni L<mlsvllle architect. Each year 
the Essay Committee selects a Louisville business­
man ti> help judge the C<miest. 
It Is interesting to note that four of th" past five businessmen who have acted as judges U\r tins contest have had sons graduate fmm the Unlver­sitv. In addltii>n to Mr. AVat;ner. thev hav-- been JOHN M. HENNF5SV, WILLIAM P. KELLY, SR,. and JOHN .MUELLER. 
JOE DONALDSO. V was chosen Man-of-tin-Year 

on UND Nigiit, The award was made at the 
dinner, attended bv 100 people, at the ^\'atterson 
Hotel. The REV. ALFRED .ME.\DEZ, placenunt 
Director, at XD. was principal speaker. 
New oliicers are: JOE HAR.MON, President: JAMES WARREN, 1st Vice-President: CHARLES MARQUET, 2nd Vice-President; PAUL .M.V­LONEY, Secretan.: and PIERRE ,ANGERMEIER, Treasurer. 
—Paul Maloney, Seo". 

Memphis 
Tlie club's UND Nii;lit dinner-meeting featured FATHER ALFRED NIF-NDEZ, CS.C , as guest 
2ti X*>lrf Danif Aiutnnui^ July-Augutt, 1955 
speaker from the campus. BROTHER UVMBERT THO.MAS, F.S.C., piesldeni of Christian Brothers College and a Notre Dame alumnus, was named the Man-«f-the-Year recipient. Tlie meeting was held at the Gavoso and was in charge of JOE SIGNLAGO, club president. 
Mexico City 
FATHER THEODORE M. HESBURGH, CS.C , u-a> gursl of tumor at llu* Univt-rsal Xoirt Datlto 
Night nict.-tini; livid bv altiiiiiii aiul friends at the 
University Cliih. CUILLERMO ALVAREZ MOR­
I'HY was choM'ii Mnn-of-lIu*-Yrar by his fcilow 
aliiinni. Other j;iu'!-is of honor included Father f 
Anthony Nealoii: William P. Snow. Minister Conn-'' 
selor of the U. S. Einbaisv, and Mrj.. Snow; 
WiJIiani Draper. ChaJnuan of the Hoard, Me.xican 
Licht and I'ouer Cotn|}any. and Mrs. Diaper; Itasil 
Nikift>rofr, Technical Director of the Mexican Light 
and INmer Company, and Mrs. NiklforofT; William 
KIchard>on. Vice-President of the National City 
Hank ()f New Vork in Me.xiro. and Afrs. Ricliard­
son: and Gustavo Garcia Travcsi. Whilt* in Me.\ico 
Cily. Father Ile.\biirj:h called on NaI)or FIore>, 
rector of the National University i)f Me.vlco. 
The committee was made up of the following 
men: PEDRO TELMO dc LANDERO, CARLOS 
HENKEL, ALEJANDRO ARENA and RICHARD 
C. LEON. 
Michigan City 
Our Universal Notre Danie Night was celebrated • at the Willard Seafood Inn on .April 16. 42 persons attended the dinn-r and heard JA.MF^S E. MUR­PHY, Director ()f Pubh'c Information at Xotre Dame, outline current developments at the Univer­sity, llu* Man-<»f-ilie-Year award was presented to STEVE PAVELA, '48, coach of St. Mar\'s High School In Michigan City. 
Plans for the club's golf party in Jidy v»ere dis­cussed and also the club sponsttred train trip to the Notre Dame-Purdue football game at West Lafayette this fall. 
FRANCIS G. FEDDER served ai loastmasier. President ROBERT SCHIEL thanked all for the success of the alTalr and also for the club's progress. 
—Steve Pavela, Secretary'. 

Milwaukee 
REV. J.\.MF.S E. NORTO.V, CS.C , was sm-M !.poakc-r from llic Univfn.ity on UND Niiihl. .-Xpril 
FORT WAYNE—Donnelly P. McDonald, Jr. (right) receives Man of the Year award from Club President Robert E. Kearney at UND Night meeting which featured talk by Professor Edmund Smith. Mrs. Edward DuQuette is wife of the chairman of the meeting. 
Monongahela Valley 
Tlie clul. c.l.liralccl UXD Xiiilit wiih JOSEPH KOVACH and VINCENT a\PAXO sglictid as "Mfii-iif-Ilic-Vrar." 
Muskegon 
FIUSK J. DONOVAN rccivcd the 1935 Man-i»f-llif-Yi'ar au-atd at liie club's UND Niylit .dinner ivhicli lias addr,-«,(l by I'rof. J. A. RE\'XIERS <»f Nnirc Danic. Tiic cluh also crtatt-d a scliolar­>hip fund to provide financial assistance for a student from this area \v!io has enrolled at Notre Dame. The ui^-Tting was held at the Cottage Inn and ci^clialrm.n were: R. L. MASON and JOH.V FITZPATRICK. 
New- iillicers for the coniini; vear are: RICHARD 
L. M;\SON, presideni: JOSEPH KEUSCH, vice-president: WILLIAM TARDANI, trea-urer: and LEO L. LIXCK, secrelarv-. 
Nashville 
The RE\'. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL. C.S.C., associate director of the Notre Dame Foimdation. was principal speaker at a nieetini? ^^S tile Middle Tennessee aluniui and friends on May 4. The meeting W1.S held in the Iris Room of the Herniit­aue Hotel. THO.MAS WALL, JR., and RICHARD HE\I.NGTO.N were ci>-chairmen. 
Naugatuck Valley 
Universal Notre Danu- Nliiht whicii ua;. celebrated at Cheshire with a -itatewidf alumni meeting wa^ featured with Man-"f-thf-Vear award presentations to tlic f.dlowinu: JOH.V ROBI.NSO.V, Hartford: JAMES SCIGLI.\.\0, .Naucatuck Vallev: JOSEPH BURNS, .New Haven: and DR. CARL PET­TERSCH, Danhu^^• State Teacher^ CoIIene. Coach JOH.N JORDAN of Notre Dame was principal speaker. Rev. Robert Keatini:. chaplain of the Nanijatuck Valley Club. wa> ioa>tnia.sicr. Other DAYTON—Eiii^cnc A. Mayl presents Man of the Year award lo Leo Condron. speakers included Rev. Jolm Sidlivan and Rev. Euyene Monaritv. Ci>-chairnien were Jim Scii:­
who was re-elected club president. 
llaiio and BERT HENEBRY and the afFair wa.-^ sptinsored by the Xaiiiratcick Valley Chib, 
The X'auiiatuck Valley Club is spon-sorini; it> lit. Tlif fM-nt «;i- iifld at llic MiluanUt- Alhli-lir i;raduat.-d a ffw v,-ars hack. alM. GEORGE third annual Notre Dame family picnic tin Sunday. C'.liil> and ua'^ iitlcntlfd by iiion- than 100 aliiiinii HAMELINE, SR., uiuw son GEORGE, JR., ua> June 19 in Bristol. Conn. Hartfi)rd will join with and i;m->.is. 'Ilu- rlnb di-parlfd frniii llu* u>ual prcM-nt with him tni;riiuT uith their mutual fririul the club and there will he a sttfiball yame between riiNi.im »if -rlcriim; a Noire Daiiu- Ma!»-«if-tli«--Y»-ar Ray B.-Id:-n. Walerbury and Harlfortl. and at I'd- nu-i-tini: prf-riiii'd a rhatioii tn Mr-. Thi> has hfrn um- of our hi-iUT (•Vfm> and uc —Bert Hcncbrj-Fr.-.! MiM.T a~ "Notrf Dann-- Woman of thr Year." havi; plan- for other >nrh cathcriims in tin- futurr. h uas am-pi.-d liy lu-r dant-litrr. Lnrflla Millt-r. GEORGE RICHTER, DICK IJLOO.M, DO.X 
New Haven 
—Tom CaritT, Sfi."*. I'L'I.LE.M ami i>thcrs ^-ctil (heir rct^rct^ as they wt-ri- out of town on that rvruini:. .Members i)f the N.D. Club of New- Haven were —Eduard J. Sweeney, ''M^., Si'cretarj' among the more than three'hundred alumni and 
'Mohawk Valley 
Our rlnli lu-U! ii- Univrr-al Nulrr Danu- Nlulit DinntT on Saturday cvt-niiii,', April 311. liOJ at 
GREEN B.-\Y—UXD Nislit iiicctins; featured Coach Bill Earlcy as principal speaker. Left to 
••'nic Iti-.-ciu-s" l.iratrd in Koun-, X.-u York. 
riiiht: Lou Rymkus. vice-prcs.; Earlcy; Jack Vainisi, pres.; and Torn Rougcux. secy.-treas. 
We wvrr fi»rtunatf in liavini: a- our i;nr>t l'n>­fes-or JAMES .A. KEV.NIER.S of LOML'ND. 
We liail IIW present at the air.iir. A. CHARLES IHTZELBERGER •d .a. loastuia^ler and DR. DON G.W'AGAN t.f Herkiuiei .New York acted as the chairman of the event. 
I'rofe.srr Revniers was a guest ..f DR. DAN SHAUGHNESSY also of Herkimer. N. V who was a classmate of Keyui •rs and ihev both wert graduated in I'JIiO ;is was the writer. 
Practicr.lly all of i!ie alumni were present at 

^.he event. Amon^ the others were: VI.V. EEETCH­ER who was iiiven an award for his work a,s chairman of the area foundation. ANTHONY GHIUZZI, Pr.->id.i.t. GEORGE HAMELINE, D.VN WATERBURY, TO.M REAGAN, DR. FRANCIS MARINO, LOU CLARK, whose brother EATIIER W'M. CLARK i;ave t!ie invocation as well as the benetiiclion. BILL DINEEN from Herkimer, ERA.VK COSSORS, UUm. JIM CVRTISH, UU*u, and the Romans JL\I GRIFFIN, GEORGE Mc KEE, BILL LYNCH and PAUL CI^ARK. 
NICK DENN, father of one un<lerj;raduatc and of Jim Denn who is currently stiidyini; for the priesthood in ihe \Utly Cross order served as Chairman of the Fathers Conmiillce. Nick did a wonderful job in cont.ictint; all of the fathers and nianv (tf iheni were present with their wives. ROY NICKNISH, who Iia.s two boys at .XD; BILL LYNCH of Rome also with two boys attend-
Yai: the University; MIKE .McGUIRL whose son 
_Xolre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1955 

GEORGIA—Father Alfred Mender was s^cst speaker on UND Night and Robert S. Lynch received the Man of the Year award. Club officers (standing) are: Tom Egan, treasurer; Ed Abranis, secretary; Bill Rickc, president; and Paul Smith, vicc>prcsident. 
friends %vIio attended tlic Universal N-D. Niglil dinner at tJic Wavcrley Inn, Cheshire, Connecticut, on Sunday, April 17. Johnny Jordan was prin­cipal speaker; he made a spirited plea for alumni support of ihr University's drive lo attract top­flight tcacliing talent to tlic cainpus. Tlic REV. ROBERT KEATING, cliaplain of the Naugatuck Valley Cluh, ser\cd as toastmaster. 
^Vmong other hcad-iable attractions: Fr. Eugene 
A. Moriarty, one-time teacher at N.D., now pastor of Holy Angels Church, Meridcn, Conn. . . . Rev. John Sullivan, present chaplain of .Naugatuck Vallcv Cluh; TI.\I .MURPHY. State Commissioner of Public Works; DR. JOE CLIF­FORD, President of the New Haven Club, and NORB HEXEBRY and JIM SCIGLIANO, co­cliairmcn of the dinner committee. . . . They did a bang-up job all around. 
Man-of-tlic-Ycar awards went to JOHN F. ROBINSO.V, '28, Hartford; JA.MES SCIGLLVNO, '42, Waic^^)ur^-; OVRL A. PETTERSCH, '28, Bridgeport, and JOSEPH P. BURNS, '34, Neu-Havcn. 

A surprise visitor was LT. BOB HALPIN, USAAF, '34, who flew in from Argcntia, Nfld. . . . Probably should have received a special citation for the alumnus to travel farthest to attend a Universal X.D. Night dinner. 
Among mure recent N.D. grads to attend dinner were: JLM OVRBERRY, '50, JOHN TWQ.MEY, '51, and BILL ~ RILEY, '51, alt working like mad for their doctorates at Yale. . . . Also JOE CLARK, '54, who is working for a law degree at U. of Connecticut. 
—Joseph P. Bums 
New Mexico 

Approximatelv 70 people attended the UND Night party on April 18. JOSEPH I. O'NEILL, Midland, Texas, a member of the Alumni Associa­tion Board of Directors, was principal speaker. THOMAS P. FOY was chosen Man-of-the-Ycar. Tlie presentation was made by LOUIS LUJ.\N. 
New York City 
The club's annual spring dance was held on May 6 in the Grand Ballroom of the Garden Citv Hotel. "BUGS" WALTHER and hrs orchestra supplied the music Dance committee chairmen were: AL LESMEZ and JLM SHERIDAN. 
Oregon 
The N.D. club of Oregon celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night Monday, April I8th at the 

28 Notre Dame Alumttus, July-August, 1955 
Aero Club of Oregon in Portland. Tlicre ^*•e^e about 75 alumni and guests attending. Guest of honor x*-as Postmaster ALBERT M. (Duke) HOD­LER, *23, and toastmaster was ED O'MEARA, '40. '*Dukc" Hodler was presented the award of Notre Dame Man-of-the-Year by the HON. FRANK J. LONERGAN, '04. The toastmaster called on four alumni, cacli representing attendance at N.D. during a different period to relate the cliaracteristics ot the university at that time* Tim was particularly interesting to the younger men present. "Duke" Hodler, in his role as guest speaker, portrayed the history and influence of four great men of Notre Dame (i.e., FATHER SORIN, botfi FATHER CAX'^VNAUGH'S and KNUTE ROCKNE). 
HARRISBURG—Edu-ard **Moose" Krause was in photo include (left to right): John W. Davis, and Louis C. O'Brien, 
CUib elections were held to fill the offices for u'hich tlie terms were then expiring; both JA&fES 
C. MALETIS, »50, and NEIL H. RUNNING, '51, were re-elected as \nce president and sccretao' for a second term. J 
—^Neil H. Running, Secretary 

Peoria 
A resume of club activities during the past year —for our opening meeting in September, we were the guests of the Pabst Brewing Co. at their "33" Room. The get-together was well attended by both club members and students. FRANK MURPHY took care of llie arrangements and did a fine job. JIM AR.MSTRONG helped us get started for the year by sending down a tape recording of a sliort talk to the club. 
On New Year's Eve we all got together for a dance at the Jefferson Hotel. Tliere were about 150 couples in attendance. All present enjoyed themselves. As a result of the turnout and the . good time had, it U possible that this dance may"^ I become an annual affair* DR. C. V. >V'ARD, GENE SLEVIN, JIM KELLY and FRED VICIC were largely responsible for the success of the dance. 
February- G, was the date of our annual Com­munion Breakfast. Under the leadership of JACK AMBERG, DICK WALSH and BILL WOM­BACHER we attended Mass at St. Mar>'s Cath­cdral, with breakfast served at the JclTcrson Hotel. Wc were very fortunate in having Msgr. George Carton, Chancellor of the Diocese of Peoria as our speaker. 
Notre Dame lost one of its strongest supporters wltcn FRED VICIC died as a result of injuries received in an accident in February. Fred was a past ofiicer and presently a director of the Peoria Alumni Club. «,­
Universal Notre Dame Night was obser\'ed on April 19, with a cocktail party and dinner at the Country Club of Peoria. Father John Sweeney, assistant director of scliools for the Diocese of Peoria and BOB ERVIN, assistant director of LOBUND were our speakers. BOB's remarks con­cerning the activities on the campus and the work of LOBUND Were most interesting. All of the 68 present enjoyed a fine time. 
The windup of activities for the 1954-55 club year w*as a business meeting and social hour held at tlic Sazarac Restaurant on May 25. 
principal speaker on UND Night. Others incoming president; Joe Kurth, toastniaster; retiring president. .^ 
INDIANAPOLIS—Head table on UND Night {left to right): Joseph M. McNamara, treasurer; Mrs. McNamara; Mrs. Welch; John R. Welch, president; Father Hcsburgh, principal speaker; Most Rev. Paul C. Schulte, Archbishop of Indianapolis; and John J. O'Connor, 
New ofllcers pf the Peoria Club arc as follows: president, DR. CI..ARE.NCE B. WARD. JR., '44; vicc-prcsidinl, JOHX E. aVSSIDY, JR., '43; treasurer, GERALD T. WOMBACHER, '31; and secretary, J. JOSEPH L,\iVGTO.V, '28. 
—^Jack Jacobs, '49, President. 

Philadelphia 
Universal Notre Dame Night was sponsored jointly this year, for the first time, by the Notre Dame Club of South Jersey. This venture was so decided in order to take advantage of the beautiful surroundings of tlie recently opened Cherry Hill Inn on Route 38 near HaddonficldT N. J., about 15 miles from metropolitan Philadelphia. 
Informality was made the keynote with a definite de-emphasis on lengthy spcccli-making and under the General Chairmanship of WALTER GROT­HAUS special stress was placed on a social gathering. 
All of the 300 persons who attended were com­pletely convinced of the success of the 32nd annual celebration. 
Tlic Patron-sponsored cocktail Party proved so well attended that initial plans for a private room had to be abandoned and even half of the spacious and lovely lobby was hardly adequate. 
REV. BERNARD Mca\FFREY, C.S.C., the Philadelphia Club chaplain gave the invocation. 
Outgoing Prcx\- JACK DEAIPSEY had a dual engagement of both introducing tlic 1955 Gavel Wieldcr-President BILL BURNS and being recipient of the **Man-of-thc-Ycar" Award. 
toastmaster and incoming president. 

FR.\NK VrrrORI, President of the South Jersey group made their award to JIM WEBB who had just relinquished the presidency of that club. 
The lone guest speaker was TERRY BRENNAN who solidly cemented his friendships in this area by his humble and sensible review of athletics at Notre Dame and his anal)-sis of the contributions of pri\*ate education. 
Terry'5 ^*"ife "Kcl", who accompanied him, drew a solid round of applause when introduced by her famous husband. 
Benediction was given by REV. JOSEPH M. HAYDEN, South Jersey Club Chaplain after which the couples enjoyed dancing to tlie music of the Inns' Antonc Boys. 
Committee Chairmen included: JOE CATTIE, Recepu'on; JOHN VOIT, Patrons; JOHN H. NEE­SON JR., Treasurer; LEONARD TOSE, Guests; TOM DE.MPSEY, Tickets; CLIFF FRODEHL, Pro­gram and Decorations; JOHN MOORHE.\D, Arrangements; FILVNK VITTORI, Alumni; JIM WEBB, Public Relations and JOE NOVETSKY, Publicity. 
—John F. Moorhcad, Secretary. 

Phoenix 
Oflicers and Board of Directors of the Notre Danie Club of Plioenbc for the 1933.1956 term are as follows: GENE A. HOESCHLER, President; JOHN J. GILLSON, Vice-President; EDWARD 
V. O'.MALLEY, JR., Secretary; and GEORGE R.. WALSH, Treasurer. Board of Directors: JOHN J. SCHOUTEN, PAUL RIST and AHLLUM P. 
M.\HONEY. JR. ^-John J. Scfaouten, Secy. 
Pittsburgh 
DR. LEO 0*DONNELL, national president of the Notre Danic Alumni Association, was presented a plaque on UND Night by the Pittsburgh Alumni Club. The presentation was made by LEO J. VOGEL, toastmaster. FATHER VINCENT BREN­NAN received the Man-of-the-Year award for **his genuine contributions to Notre Dame and his help in revitalizing the Httsburgh Catholic news­paper." EDWARD "MOOSE" KRAUSE, director of athletics at the University, Dr. Clarence C. \Valton, Dean of Duquesne University School of Business Administration, Rt- Rev. Msgr. Joseph 
B. Findlan and Rev. Regis P. Krah, O.F.M., Cap., were on the speaking program. 
T. J. GILLESPIE, JR., was chairman of the event and the guests were welcomed by E.4RL W. BRIEGER, club president. 
Rochester 
FATHER ALFRED MENDE2, CS.a . was principal speaker on Universal Notre Dame Night. VICTOR DcSIMON u-as in charge of arrange­ments and the toastmaster u*as JERRY FLYNN. 
Rock River Valley 
Circuit Judge JAMES L. BRACKEN, Dixon, 
HAWAII—A capacity crowd of alumni and guests turned out for Universal Notre Dame Night in Honolulu. The meeting featured Father Charles Kckumano as principal speaker. 
Xoire Dame Alumnus, Jidy-Au£ttstt 1953 , 29 

HOUSTON—Father Hcsburgh, principal speaker at the club's UND Night observance, was met at the airport by George McHalc, chainiian of the event, and Club President Paul Doyle 
(right). The Houston ND Club presented a 
received the club's Man-of-the-Year award at the UND Niglit banquet wliicli featured a talk by REV. J.\.MES DOLL, C. S. C , representing the University. Judge Bracken, '08, is also a member of the Notre Dame National Monogram Association. The club's scholarship a\\'ard was received by Martin W. McGinn, a senior in Newman High School. 
JOSEPH BITTORF, Foundation Chairman in Sterling, recei\ed i special award from the Uni­versity for liis outstanding work in directing tlic Notre Dame Foundation activities in this area. 
New officers are: ROBERT .\tcDONNELL, president; LUKE MORIN, \ice-prcsidcnt; PAUL LONG, secretarv-; and R^VYMOND DcCOURCEY, treasurer. 
Saginaw Valley 
Tlic Saginaw Valley Notre Dame Club celebrated Univers^il Notre Dame Night Monday, April 18. 1955 at the Rex Club in Bay City, .\bout 35 from Bay City. Saginaw, Midland and St. Louis, Michigan, attended. 
Highlights of the 1954 season was the feature after the election of officers: THOMAS J. a\R­ROLL, President: WILLIAM HENDRICKS, vice-President; GER^\LD E. CARROLL, Secretary and Treasurer. New directors are: I^\RRY STRABLE, THOM.\S V.\N AARLE, and AL BAUMGARTFA', all of Saginaw. 
—Gerald Carroll, Secreiarj-. 

St. Joseph Valley 
Club officers who took oflicc on UND Niglit arc: president, ROBERT LEHM^WC; vice-president. \nLLIA.M GIBBONS; secretary, JERRY HICKEV; treasurer, DON FISHER; honorary president, AL McGANN. New directors include: ROBERT CA­HILL, HARRY KOEHLER, H. T. WAITE, JR., and JOH.V Ci\CKLEY. 
The annual Golf Day was held on tlic Notre Dame course with JOE HICKEY and CLIFF HOENK as co-cliairmen. 
St. Louis 
New officers of the St. Louis Notre Dame Club arc: President, DO.XALD A. DOHENY; Sccrctan.-Trcasurcr, JOHN F. HIGGINS, JR.; Vice-Presi­dent, Public Relations, FRANK J. POLLNOW, JR.; \'ice-President, Promotion, EUGENE A. FEHLIG; \1ce-President, Activities, NOR>fAN F. MUELLER. 
Wc have just about lined up our complete pro­gram for the 1955-56 year. We arc adding to our pre\ious activities, monthly lunclicons which will be held on the second Tuesday of cacli month and whicli arc rotated in the four geographical dircc­

 XotT£ .Dame Alumnus, July-Augusl, 1955 

 gift to the University that evening of $2500. 
tions to be able to accommodate the \'arious mem­bers at least three times a year. 
Universal Notre Dame Night in St. Louis was one of the most successful ever held by the St. Louis Club. 
Reservations began coming in so rapidly that it soon became apparent the facilities at the Univer­sity Club would be inadequate. After a hurried meeting of the committee the change was made to the Sheraton Hotel, and the Job of notification 
of this cliangc began. In addition to prominent sportswriters, husines; and acity crowd of 302 Notre TERRY BRENN.'VN give on the ad\'antages and education. 
Earlier in the afternoon, city officials and officers Terry was presented with 
 members of the clerg\*,  political leaders, a cap­ Dame enthusiasts heard  an excellent discourse  necessities of a private 
 in the presence of key  of the St. Louis club, a key to the City of 

St. Louis by Mayor Raymond Tucker. In addition, he appeared on the local TV and radio sports' programs prior to the dinner. FRED MCNEIL L was the recipient of the annual Man-of-the-Year award. In addition, DR. MATT 
WEIS and JACK GRIFFIX were awarded scrolls from tli= Univfrsiiv for their participation and cfTorls towards the Foundation Fund. 
The ntw Club President, DON DOHENY, was 
introduced at the close of the dinner and at that 
time assumed leadership of the St. Louis club for 
1955-56. 
—H. L. Dahm. JR., Scc'y-Trcas. 

San Antonio 
ED\\'ARD G. CONROY received the Man-of­the-Year auard on UND Night. The meeting fea­tured as principal spealcer JAMES E, ARM­STRONG, executive secrelarv' of the Alumni Asso­ciation. 
Son Diego 
G. R. (JERRY) BILL, '29. newly-elected presi­dent »)f the Notre Dame Club of San Diego, was selected as the club's **Man-«f-the-Year" for 1955. Announcement of the award was made at the club's Universal Notre Dame Nigh: banquet, .April IStli, at the Marlin Inn, Point Loma. 
BROTHER CHARLES, C.S.C., principal of Notre Dame High School, Sherman Oaks, Calif., was the principal speaker, addressing the club on the Universal Notre Dame Night theme. '"The Growing Crisis in Private Higher Education." 
Bill was cited for his outstanding contribution to the community and the club for his leading role in the organization of San Diego County's first annual ^'Appreciation Night" testimonial for 140 high school coaches and administrators of the county held In Januar>-. 
Alunml attending were: G. R. BILL, '29, FR.ANCIS J. (RED) DAVIS, M8, DR. JOHN N. FOGEL, '38, THO.MAS E. U\UER.MAN, M8. PHILIP P. MARTIN, JR., '45. RICHARD N. .MARTIN, '45. JOH.V J. .McCL.\REN, '29, HARRY 
E. .MONAHAX, JR., '50. GEN. FR.\NCIS P. .MULa\HY, '14, RT. REV. FRANCIS C. OTT, '17, JOH.V B. SULLIVAN, '48. RICHARD J. DERE.VTHAL, '51. BILL GALLO, '52, and LESTER C. HEGELE, '28. 
Tlie San Diego club has added a pair of former Notre Dame footballers to its msler with the return to Southern California of BILL VANGEN, '49, as sales representative for the Miller Brewing Co.. and the acquisition of TOM CARTER, '51, as head fiKitball coach at St. Augustine High School here. Carter, a grid pupil of Vaiigen's during his sojourn with the Irisli frosh scpiad in 1947. comes to San Diego after a couple of good seasons at Mater Dei High In Santa Ana, Calif. 
—Harry Alonahan, Scc>*. 

JACKSON—Dean James E. McCarthy addressed aluiimi and guests on UND Nitjht. (Left to right): William Dottcrweich, chairman; James Gerity, Jr., who introduced the speaker and who is a member of ND's College of Commerce Advisory Council; Dean McCarthy; and Club President Blair McGowan. 
Southern Colorado 
The club's big UND Night parly featured a 
: presentation of the Man-of-lhc-Year award to Gcn­cral Benjamin W. Chidlaw, USAF, retiring com­mander of the Continental Air Defense Command. Honored guests included Hon. C. Harr\* Blunt, mayor of Colorado Springs, and Mrs. Blunt; newly­clecled Notre Dame Club of Southern Colorado president A. J. THOMAS and Mrs. Thomas; ncw'Iy­elected vice-president and Mrs. MARION J. MAURELLO; Col. William \V. Sisscl, USAF, CONAD. Chaplain, and Mrs. Sissel; Col. Paul E. Potter, U&.\F, (Res.) Catholic Chaplain; Father Duanc Theobald. Catholic Chaplain; and retiring club president WILLIAM J. DONEUVN, JR., and Mrs. Donelan. General Chidlavv- was the principal speaker of the evening. Tliirty-ninc persons at­tended the ceremonies which were held at the OfG­ccrs' Club, Ent Air Force Base, Colorado Springs. General Chidlaw not only received the Man-of-the-Year award but also was made an honorary mcm­

f ber of the club that same evening. Mayor Blunt continues to be an honorarx' member of the South­ern Colorado Notre Dame Club. General Chidlaw retired from active military ser\icc on May 31 after 3614 years duty. He was graduated from the U. S. Military Academy at West Point in 1922 and the Command and General Staff School in 1937. 
Southwest. Connecticut 
New officer: recently elected are as follo^vs: DR. VINCENT GORMAN, *35. president; BOB GRIF­FIN, '45, vice-president; DICK SCANNELL, '38, secretary-; and BOB TWEKSBURY, '47. treasurer. Tlie new ofHccrs are determined to make the or­ganization a more vital force for the University in this community. We arc hoping that there will be active participation of the entire group of 150 
, potential members in the club area. -Dick Scannell 
South Jersey 
Annual elections were recently held within the Club. Following are the ofHcer^ elected and ap­pointed for the coming vear: President: FRANK 
E. VITTORI, '49, Vice-President, THOMAS R. ROURKE, '42; Sec'v.-Treas.: .\tATT J. CAMP­ANELL^V, '49; Chaplain: REV. JOSEPH M. HAYDEN, '44; Directors: THO.MAS J. AUCHTER, 

KALAMAZOO—Father James Doll, CS^C, principal speaker, accepts club gift of $300 for the University from retiring president James Mahoney on UND Night. 
'30, JOHN C. MURPHY, '49, JAMES A. WEBB, '48. 
The Club recently enjoyed a very successful Universal Notre Dame Night, in a joint effort with the neighboring Philadelphia Club. We were very grateful for being able to obtain TERRY BREN­NAN as speaker. JI.M WTBB was selected "Man­of-the-Year" for 1955. 
—Matt J. Campanella, Sec'y-Treas. 
Spok one 

A Universal Notre Dame Night meeting was held in April and included alumni and guesU. Nc\v officers who were elected Include: ROBERT ROTCHFORD, president; and FRANK J. HA­GENBARTH, secretary-. JOHN CACKLEY spoke to the group on the "Growing Crisis in Education.'* 
Terre Haute 
The organizational ireeting of the club took place on April 18 with a dinner at Bohannon's Restaur­ant. Speakers included: JOHN F. MURPHY, REV. THOMAS CULHANE, C.S.C., and BROTHER 
NORMAN HEAD, both of Gibault Home for Boys, 
and JOE S.AVOLD1. RAYMOND J. KEARNS, 
presided. 24 alumni attended the meeting. 
Twin Cities 
The following report is submitted by Mrs-THOMAS A. STEELE, JR.: 
The Notre Dame Auxiliary of the Twin Cities has just ended another successful year with its an­nual spring lunclieon held at the To^vn and Coun­tr>- Club in St. Paul, Minn. New officers arc; Mrs. EMMET BARRON, Minneapolis, president? Mrs. LAWRENCE AUBREY, Minneapolis, vice-president; Mrs. RICHARD &\HILL, St. Paul, sec­retary-; and Mrs. HAROLD THOMPSON, St. Paul, treasurer. Mrs. ROBERT HAUER was chairman of the luncheon committee. The popular Spring Mixer witS most successful and arrangements were under the direction of Mrs. JOHN \'ZLL*^^P-. Wives and husbands began the club year with a picnic in September at the home of Dr. and Mrs. R.ALPH LEE. The Auxiliary alternates monthly between home evening meetings and luncheon meet­ings. These get-togethers arc alternately held in Minneapolis or St. Paul. .-Mthough the club is chiefly a social group, it uses the dues for char­itable purposes including aid to the Cancer Home in St. Paul and the Catholic Charities Guild. 
Recent new members include Mrs. LAWRENCE AUBREY, Mrs. JOHN CONNELLY and Mrs. HAROLD THOMPSON. Tlie Auxiliary Is open to all wives of Notre Dame alumni in the Twin Cities area. Tht retiring officers for the vear are: Mrs. PAUL CASTNER, St. Paul, president; Mrs. THOM.\S AL\HON. St. Paul, vice-president; Mrs. THO.MAS STEELE, JR., Minneapolis, secretary; and Mrs. MARK BANNON, Minneapolis, treasurer. 
Virginia 
The Notre Dame Club of Virginia celebrateci 

Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner meeting 
at Hotel Richmond in the Old Dominion's Capitol 
City. 
Attending were: CH.ARLES M. MORRISON, 

DR. CHARLES R. RILEY, FRANK STUMPF, 
LEO F. BURKE, ROBERT E. McSWEENEY, 
WILLIAM E. PURCELL, ANDREW O'KEEFFE, 
DR. FRANK R. KELLY, JR., ROBERT A. 
SHEPPARD, JR., ROBERT I. HOWARD, MIL­
TON FARLEY, DR. OLINDO W. ROS.ANELLI, 
JOLIET—UND Night participants (left to right, seated): toastmaster John Camiichael; Father Fabian Donlan; guest speaker Terry Bren­nan; and Wally Voitik, president. (Standing, left to right): Leroy Leslie; Ernie Zalejski; Jim Kavanaugh; Bill Wightkin; Don Schaefer; Paul Matz; and Ray Trizna. 
Xolre Dame Alumnus, July-August^ I9S5 31 

NEW MEXICO—Joseph I. O'Neill, alumni board director from Midland, Texas, was guest speaker on UND Night in Albuquerque. (Left to right): Louis C. Lujan; Tom Foy, Man of the Year recipient; Maurice Sanchez, Cit>- Commission Chairman; Joe O'Neill; Foundation Award Winner Charles O'AIalley; and Club President Cecil Jordan. 
FRANK A. CROVO, and CHARLES A. La-FRATTA. 
A business session was held immediately following the dinner, and tiie following officers elected for 1955-56: President, FRANK A. CROVO, '31; Vice-President, ANDREW O'KEEFFE, '33; Sec­retary-, ROBERT I. HOWARD, '40; and Treasurer, CHARLES A. LaFRATT.-^, '47. 
Although plans lor the coming year arc not yet complete, a program of at least four events is being arranged—designed to appeal not only to alumni, but also studenu and friends of the University. —Robert Howard. 
West Virginia 
Results of the election of ofliccrs for the coming yean President, VINCENT REISHMAN, '34; 
Vice-President, DA\1D MONCRIEF, '41; Secre­tary-Treasurer, CORNELIUS T. DESMOND, '51. At the UND Night meeting, HUGH LODER was named Man-of-the-Year. 
Recent promotioTis at Carbine and Carbon Chemi­cals Company, Soutli Charleston, were received by Notre Dame men: J. M. Kill, '41, was made 
Assistant Superintendent ot the plant; William J. 
Minges, *42, was made a project leader in tlie engineering department. ' —Cornelius T. Desmond. 
Youngstown 
Thirty members attended tlic monthly dinner-meeting at the Colonial House in Youngstown on May 19. Main topics covered *vcrc the golf party to be held at Warren Trumbull Country' Club in August. JOE DRxW of Warren and LOU COL-*-' LERAN of Youngstown arc co-cliairmen. BILL LYDEN, JR., and "PORKY" LAVELLE arc work­ing on a football excursion for the fall program. A great deal of interest is shown in a Miami trip. BOB KELLY, '51, of Pittsburgi; is paying us a **not-too-happ\-" \*isit. Bob was painfully injured in an industrial accident on a job for McCready and Rogers Company of Pittsburgh. He is an engineer witli the firm. He is making pro­gress, however, and the local alumni are tr^-ing to help in cver>' way possible. \VALTER R/\UH handled the telephone reservations for the May meeting and did a bang-up job. Tcxas-N.D. movies were shown and a golf movie for the "dufTers" filled out the program, 
—Griff Al/en. 

KANSAS CITY—Alumni Secretary Jim Armstrong was principal speaker on UND Night. Head tabic included: Bob Metzlcr, outgoing president; Craig Whitaker, Scholarship Fund chairman; Ed Aylward, >'ice-president; Jake Hayes, treasurer; Russ Farrell, new president; and Armstrong. Metzler received a desk set and plaque of appreciation from the club. 
Xotre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1955 
Sympathy 

RT. REV. MSGR. FRANCIS C. OTT, '17. 
on the death of his mother on" May 23. "
lHUrn^

vmm yses 
RT. REV. MSGR. WILLIAM GREEN, '26, on the death of his father on April 19 in Burling­
Engagements 

Miss Barbara i\nn Chcsny and VINCENT A. JACOBS, '46. Miss Nellie Mary Welgand and J. ROBERT WILDEMAN, '31. Miss Paula Dianne Roche and ENS. CIWRLES R. WR,\Y, '52. Miss Carolyn Adelaide Black and GEORGE G. 
MCDONOUGH, 'M. 
Miss Virginia Ann Byr.ic and LT. RICHARD 

H. TIERNEY, '54. 
s 
Marriages 

Miss Marj- Evelyn Gucrri and JOHN F. C\K­MODY, 'H, Moberly, Mo., April 23. Miss Ellen Patricia Dobson and JOHN P. Mc-GUIRE, '46, RocUille Centre, N. Y., April 14. Miss Patricia Ann McGowan and KENNETH J. B.AYLY, '50, Tucson, Ariz., May 28. 
Miss Ellen Mary Hartke and DR. JOSEPH A. BETTENCOURT, II, '31, Chciy Chase, Md., May 28. 
Miss Shiriey Jean Delaney and JAMES S. DOYLE, '31, Cato, N. Y., April 11. Miss Roberta Portelle and JOHN B. CLARK, '33, -Melrose, Mass., Xovember 11, 1954. Miss Barbara LeivTs and JAMES P. SHE.\, '33, Dallas, Tctas, April 30. Miss Sarah Jane McCoy and JAMES H. HAR­RLVGTON, '54, Wejtficid, N. J., April 30. Miss Mar>- Elizabeth Sergio and LT. JOSEPH 
J. MUHLHERR, '5+, Notre Dame, Ind., June U. 
Births 

Mr. and Mrs. GERALD P. DOYLE, '33, a son, April 12. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. O'CON'NOR, '38, a son, Gerald Francis, April 10. .Mr. and Mrs. CHESTER P. SADOW'SKI, '39, a daughter, Virginia Marie, January 5. Mr. ar.d Mrs. DANIEL A. KELLEY, '41, a daughter, Marita Mary, May 14. -Mr. and .Mrs. JAMES SCmffilCKERT, '45, a son, Barr\' Martin, May 10. 
•i, Mr. and Mrs. FRED A. TANSEY, '48, a son, Daniel Anthony, April 10. ^Ir. and Mrs. PAUL J. ALLWEIN, '49, a daugh­
ter, Patricia Marj-, .April 7. Mr. and Mrs. THOM^W J. KELLY, '49, a son. Mr. and Mrs. THOM.\S G. McFARL,\ND, '49, 
a daughter, Marianne, May 20. .Mr. and Mrs. MYLES QUAIL, JR., '49, a son, Terence Lee, March 26. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES J. JENNEWEIN, '30, a son. James Joseph, May 23. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT HOKE, '32, a daughter, Linda Diane, May 10. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES KOPP, "52, twins, Joseph Thomas and Rosemar>- Elizabeth, April 6. Mr. and Mrs. H:\ROLD A. WILLIAilS, '38, a daugliter, Sara Brooke, March 21. 
Obituary 

REV. WILLIAM H. CONDON, C^.C, died May 7, 1955, in tlic Community Infirmary on the campus. A retired member of the facultj*. Father Condon had been at the University since 1920. He formerly taught English and the classics and for a time ^\*as University Archinsl. Father Condon observed the 60th anniversary of his ordination to the priesthood in 1953. 
He \\-as ordained in 1893 and W3S educated at the College of St. Laurent, Quebec, Canada. He also received a master's degree from La%'al Uni­versity, Quebec. 
BROTHER SABINUS, C3.C., supen-Tsor of printing at the Ave Maria Press, died on May 13 in St. Joseph's Hospital following a heart attack. He had been sup-*rintcndcnt of printing for the past nine years. Brother Sabinus was publisher vy of the Bengal Digest from 1945 until 1948 and ^ ' also was author of a number of articles for the Associate of St. Joseph as well as of a book. 
"Maid of Corinaldo." He took his final vows on .•\prit 16, 1945. Brother Sabinus was a member of the Catholic Press Association and director of the Brother Columba Apostolatc of the Sacred Heart. Survivors include his mother, Mrs. Anna Johnson, and a brother, Maurice J. Herbert, both of Troy, N. Y. 
CH.\RLES L. SCHWARTZ, '97, president of the Lee Hardware Company, Salina, Kansas, died 
•
April ID, 1955. 

N.
 R. FURLONG, W . of Kennebec, South Dakota, died in St. Mar>''s Hospital April 6 after a short illness. For tlie past year Mr. Furlong had made his home at Mar>'house in Pierre, South Dakota. Following graduation from Notre Dame, he began the practice of law in Galena, III., and later moved to L>Tnan County. Funeral services were held in St. Michael's Church. 


JAMES J. SHERRY, '05, died on April 27. 1955, as the result of a heart attack. He had made plans to attend his 50-year class reunion on June 10, 11 and 12. Mr. Sherry was a member in long standing of the Monogram Club haring played shortstop on the \-arsIty baseball team during his undergraduate days at the University. He retired in 1949 after 46 years service with the New York Central Railroad as a CiWl Engineer and Designer, having spent most of this time at the company's headquarters in New York City. Tliroughout his life ifr, Shcrr>' continued to be very active in church affairs and was a member of the Holy Name Society and the Knights of Columbus. He evi­denced keen interest in Notre Dame activities. Mr. Sherry is survived by his widow, Elizabeth; two sons, Robert, '41, and James J, Jr., '36; four grandchildren, Kathleen, James, III, Deborah and Brian. 
JOHN W. ROACH, '08, died as a result of a stroke on March 24 in Muscatine, Iowa. JOHN S. BUCZKOWSKI, '10, died May 3 in South Bend, Ind. 
STEPHEN F. McGONIGLE, *17, died on March 20 from a heart attack in Oak Park, 111. He is surv'ived by his widow, Margaret, three sisters and a brother. 
J.\MES W. CORBETT, '24, of Manon, Ind., died on April 19 
J. BRYAN WALTERS, '25, well-known Ham­mond, Ind., attorney, died April 17 in a MctVlester, Oklahoma, hospital where he had been taken fol­lowing a heart attack two weeks earlier. He had practiced I:iW for 30 years in Hammond and was on the board of the SaK'ation Army. Mr. Walters suffered a heart attack while he was on his way home from a business trip to Laredo and San .\ntonio, Texas. Survivors include his widow, Leona, a brother, Robert C-, a sister, Mrs. John Vernon, and t^vo nieces. 
JfVMES D. BOWEN, '26, died in Indianapolis, Ind., of a heart attack on April 29, 1955. Bom in Fort Scott, Kansas, he had lived in Indianapolis for 30 years. Mr. Bowen was an executive at the Sterling Laundry Company. He was a member of St. Joan of Arc Church, its Holy Name Society' and the Knights of Columbus. 
He is survived by his widow, ^[ar>•; four sons, Dawd ^L, W. Patrick, John J., and James D., Jr.; a daughter, x\nn Marie, and his mother, Mrs. Catherine Bowen. Funeral ser^'iccs were held in St. Joan of .tVrc Catholic Church in Indianapolis. 
ARTHUR C. STENIUS, '28, head of Wav-nc University's Audio-Visual Materials Consultation Bureau and recognized authority on audio-nsual education, died May 24 in Harper Hospital, De­troit. Mr. Stenius was bom in Stockholm and came to this country at the age of four. In addition to teaching, he also coached basketball, wrote and directed school pla>'s and coached the scliool's ddjatc team when he was a member of the stsSi at Western High School in Detroit. He received his master's degree at the University of Detroit in 1938 and his Ph.D. in 1941 at Ohio State University. He had been a member of the Wayne University stafT for the past ten years. Dr. Stenius is sunnvcd by his widow, Barbara, two children, Linda, 13, and Charles, 10, his mother, Mrs. Charles Stenius, a brother and a sister. 
ton, Io^v•a. 
T. E. CAKES. '31, and RAYMOND W. CAKES, *33, on the death of their mother on May 21 in Lalte Charles, La. 
FRANCIS J. DAVIS, '48. on the death of his father. 
JESSE A. JOLLY, '54, on the death of his wife, Mary Alice, on March 22 in Corpus Christi, Texas. DR. KENNETH LAW'S, '36. on the death of his father, itay 20, 1953. 
1905 
J. READ VOIGT, Signal Mountain, Tcnn., writes as follows: "Dear Mr. Armstrong: 
"The fifty-year medal you sent me will be \-alued very highly. I regret very much that it will not be possible for me to attend the reunion." 
From E. F. GRUBER, Gmher and Morrison, Attorneys-at-I^w, Farmers Bank Building, Frank­fort, Indiana: 
"Dear Mr. Armstrong: 
"Many thanks for the fifty-year medal. I w3I always cherish it. It brings back many fine mem­ories of years spent at Notre Dame ... " 
From ^^CHAEL E. FANSLER: 
"Dear Mr. Armstrong: 
". . . The medal is very attractive and I appre­ciate it ver>- much. I am not sure that I can attend the June reunion, much as I would like to sec some of my old classmates . . ." Mr. Fansler 1$ practicing law and h» business address is 1100 Fletcher Trust. Building, 108 North Pennsylvania Street, Indianapolis 4, Indiana. 
From COL. ERNEST K. SHEBLE, 2 Brittle Lane. Hicksville, N. Y.: "Dear Mr. Armstrong: 
"I am indeed happy to receive the fifty year medal .. . it will ahvays be one of my most cherished possessions. . . . Kindly reserve a room for my w'fe and I at the Inn for the 10th and llth of June.'» 
From W. A. STEVENS, 915 ^Vest 10th Street. Topeka, Kansas: "Dear Mr. Armstrong, 
". . . Please be assured that I am genuinely and everlastingly s^^teful for this memento of our 50th Reunion. . ." From JOSEPH F. GAFFNEY, 6119-llth Avenue, Kenosha, Wisconsin: 
'Dear Mr. Armstrong, "The beautiful 50-year medal arrived safely. I win cherish it for the many pleasant memories of Notre Dame and dear old Sorin Hall. . . . Nothing u-ould give me more pleasure than to be present at the reunion this June but I'm sorry to report my health will not permit." 
Fred L. Steers 

1911 
105 So. LaSalle St Cliicago 3, m 

191 3 ^Ir- Paul K- Byrne " ' * O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Ind. 
CLYDE BROUSSARD reports the birth of hii twenty-second grandchild. It is a boy bom April 12, 1955, to Mr. and Mrs. GERALD P. DOYLE, '35, The Doyles have five children, and the mother, Katherine Belle, is an alumna of St. Mary's,College.,. . --..,., _ 
REY BOWLES, western sales representative of Piirk-O.Mi:ter, recently attended the American Association of Airport E-tecutives convention in Tucson, Arizona. 
IQI d Ron O'NeiU '^' ^ 1350 No. Black Oak Dr. South Bend 17, Indiana 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Jidy-Augutt, 1955 33 

MONONGAHELA VALLEY—Man of the Year Awards went to Joseph Ko\-ach, Union-tOH-n, Pa-, State VFW Head; and State Legislator Vincent Capano, Donora, Pa. Left to right: George Martinet, secretarj*; Kovach; Capano; and Loub Aponc, president. 
1 Q 1 C Janics E. Sanford I T • i» J429 W. Farragut Avenue Chicago 40, Illinois 
(Ed. Kote: Through misinformation furnished the Alumni Office a notice was published in the May-June ALU.MXUS of the death of Rev. Patrick T. Quin­tan, Kingstrec, S. C. We are happy to inform his classmates that Father Quinlan js ver>' mucli alive and "active in the Wnex-ard of the Lord''.) 
1 91 A Grovcr F. Miller ' ' • ^ 612 Wisconsin Avenue Racine, Wisconsin 
From ROBERT C. a\RR: '*It is diflicult to realize, but we are vcr>- close to our 40ih annivcrsarv-. I hope to attend the re­union. "I had five years at Xotrc Dame, which covered the Ph. B. course and. with allowance for studies duplicated, two years of law. .Another year would have given nic a law degree, but hi those disturbed times, I had a feeling that I would rather do the necessar\' work in my father's office. **I did not have any war experience. I was dis­qualified physically and ended my career at the weighing machine, where I was described as mal­nourished. "The only conspicuous hapenings of my law experience was winning the case of Bundy vs. Solon, now reported in 3&4 III. 137. It was made the subject oi an extensive annotation in the Am«-rican Law Reports, vol. 157, page 339. 
'"I have a son in the Air Force, stationed at San Antonio, Texas. It appears that he will not qualify for flying because of myopia, which fortun­ately is only ver\' slight. This is a common fail­ing in the family.'' 
1917 Edward J. McOskcr " ' " 2205 Brianvood Road Cleveland Hgts. 18, Ohio 
1010 George E. Harbcrt ' ' " ^ 108 No. Main Street Sycamore, Illinois 
Time Uzs again taken its toll, and another class mate of ours, CLYDE J. ZOIA was called to his Maker on April 3, 1955. Clyde received his L.L.D. 

3-f Xoire Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1955 
in 1918, and following hts graduation entered the Army and served throughout World War One. He returned to hts home in Woodstock and has since been active in community affairs. 
He was a cliartcr member of the Woodstock Post of the American Legion and was a deputy slicriflf for over 20 years, and an active member of the County Deputy SIicrifTs ^Vssociation. 

He leaves 5ur\-iving him his wife, Helen, onc*^ daughter, Mar\* Frances^ a brother Eugene, and , his sister, Mrs. C. Russell (Mar>') Allen. 
Clyde u-as an X.D. man and played guard on the 1917 football team. He never lost his happy disposition even during his Ia.«t illness, which kept him bed-ridden for a year and a half. 
Clyde was the original 5x 5 man of stor>' and fame, but as Arch Ward said in his column, '•Time has a way of obscuring sports achievements, ivhicii probably accounts for the lack of space given the death of Clyde Zoia." 
His Classmates and many friends extend very heartfelt sympathy to his wife and cliild in their bereavement. May his Soul rest in Peace. 
1 0 | O Theodore C. Radeniakcr 
<}
Peru Foundry Company Peru, Indiana 

1 990 Ralpli ^^'- Bergman 
• '^* ' 1609 No. Jefferson Ave. St. Louis 6, Missouri 
1971 Dan W. Duffy 
•'^ " 1101 N.B.C. Bldg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 
1992 Gerald A. Ashe 
• '^ ^ 39 Cambridge Street Rochester 17, N. Y. 
1 99^ Louis V. Bruggner 
• ^^^ 2165 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Indiana 
Alumni mail and the iniportunings of this office finally caught up with KEN KRIPPENE, explorer.  lecturer and author, whose mail previously had 
MILAVAUKEE—^Notre Dame club named Mrs. Adele Kanaley Miller, widow of Fred Miller, '29, as "Woman of the Year." Mrs. Miller's daughter, Loretta, receives the scroll from Father James Norton, CS.C., guest speaker from the campus on Universal Notre Dame Night. 
KENTUCKY—Notre Dame club ofHcials and the winners of the club's annual essay contest for Catholic high schools in Louisville. Left to right (standing): Walter Wagner, Sr.; Gerald Ocswein (Flaget H, S.); Dale Voigt (Our Lady H. S.); Joe Harmon, new president. Seated arc (left to right): Robert Adclberg (St. Xavicr H, S.); Lawrence Willcnbrink, retiring pres. 
'''•^biH'ii rL-iurtifd from Caliroriiia, unclaiiiivd. Kcii / uTulu in April at considerable length from Ms ' latest address, P.O. Bos 222, Miami 2. Florida, 
vncIoHni; brochures of Ins lectures and a pre­publication notice of hi^ wife's book, ''The Jungle is a Wotnau." Excerpts from bis letter follow: '•last five years a resident of Lima. Peru . . . been making a living as a professional writer. . . . Our next trip will take us to Navarino Island . . . to fdm a dtH:uinentar>' entitled '.•\peinan of the .Antarctic' . . . Unfortunately I live in places where I am completely nut of loucb with cver\*onc . . . and have lost contact with all classmates except GEXE HINES, whom I recently met in Ciiicago ... . have a more or less permanent address in Miami {see above).'* 
At this point ihc plot gets involved. First word u'e bad several months ago about Ken's wbere­
'i( . abotits Centered aruuiid a newspaper 5tor>' about 
T one Jane Drolinger. who answered a blind wani­
' ad for a secretary to go a-lravelling—exploring— writing with Ken. Latest developments—brochures, bis letter, and some pictures—reveal bis companion to be Mrs. Jane Krippene. Circumstantial evi­deuce (Ken said nothing about it) indicates the gal married her boss. . . . Congratulations, Ken! 
EDWIN' S. RYAN, whose alertness regarding a newspaper clipping, gave ibis ofHce the first clue as to Krippene's whereabouts, wrote from bis home, comniis-*raling on my accident Ixst winter and comparing notc5 on :»t least two Cbr\-sler's known to have backed down driveway's. Ed has been "out on bridge construction for the Illinois Highway Department, working out of Dixon." 
HILL VOSS wai »)ne of the beadliners at Notre Dame on .April 2U, at ibe annual Sales and Ad­
•; vertising Conference sp»msored by the Sales and 
(Ay Advertising Executives Cbib of the St. Joseph Val­ley. Tin; Soutii Bend Tribune said "Voss bas long been recognized as a specialist In executive training and-development" and llic program referred to bim 
^ as "an associate of tbc Sales Analysis Institute. 230 S. Clark St., Chicago., consultant to General Electric. Chrv'sler, Monsanta. Fiberglas, Sun Oil. etC'" Hill was lead-off man in a batting order of seven men in the onc-day<and-evening session. He called iiic on the phone before leaving town and we bad a nice visit. .Memo to FATHER JOHN E. DUFFY and others who wrote about mv broken leg: 'twaren't broken, 'twas torn knee ligaments. Forgot to mention that BILL VOSS also wrote a note, prior to bis coming for the meeting. Quote: "see CHET WYNNE occasionally in the corridors of tbc Continental Illinois Bank Building. Still as handsome as ever. . . Had a few* minutes chat 
(•^ with HARRY STUHLDREHER, who's in and out of Chicago like a commuter." 
Under the letterhead of the .Appellate Court of Illinois: "The O. J. L.ARSONS, tbc GUS DES­CHES, and the ROG KILEV*S were guests of the CHET n*\'X.\ES for dinner the other night. Tell FR.\NK NEITZEL that Gus is fine and still work­ing hard for lite Lindc Air Products Co. Sincerclv. Rog." 
Speaking of GUS DESCH, your plodding secre­tary has yet to receive any direct word from Iilm. However, I noted witb considerable interest tbc pictures and write-ups in recent Issues of "Our 
PITTSBURGH—Guests and speakers at UND 
Sunday Visitor" concerning ^tRS. AUGUST DESCH who, it appears, is president of the Na­tional Council of Catholic Women and who spoke at the annual convention of the Fort Wayne, Indi­ana, Diocesan Council of Catholic Women. 
TOM LIEB wrota in March (ob, happy flay!) from Huntington Park, California, where he is employed "handling tbc persoimel department'* for Sargent Engineering Corp. P.O. Box 231. Tom says in part: "see JIM ^fcC:\BE now and then . . . after 27 years of football coaching I quit as line coach and assistant to FR/\NK THOMAS at Alabama. Decided I had enough of coaching .. . been here four years and don't have tbc Saturday afternoon headaches any more!" 
HY HUNT, Uncle Sam's publican at Decorah, Iowa, wrote again breezily, to wh: *'Attended the lowa-N.D. game last fall . . . ran into DON FITZGIBBON. .. . If BRUCE HOL^fBERG was at the game, I saw him but couldn't get to him. .. . A bus load ol eager beavers unloaded just before game time, 'Notre Dame Club oE Rock River Valley' (I think) and an Illinois license plate. A character that looked like what I believe Bruce would look like after all these years was one of the axitees. . . , Can give ED KREIMER this much dope on SPIKE FLYNN, I believe he is in Superior, Wisconsin. . . . Was there one evening two years ago and tried to call up a NEIL FLYNN listed in tbc city business directory as a contractor .. . no one home . . . Does anyone ever hear from WHITER UN\'ERFURTH, LL.B. "23?" 
ALBERT PICKS, JR., 7325 Tatum BouIe\-ard. Phoenix, ^Vrizona, writes: "We had Father Hesburgh with us for Universal N.D. Night. . . . We have had a number of x'isitors in our land of the sun. among ibem were EDDIE MEEHAN, '21, and BERNIE VOLL, '17, of your fair town. . . . Incidentally our .Alumni Club In Phocnbc awarded me the Man-of-tlic-Vear Scroll and I was ver>' happy, although certainly not deser\'ing of it. . . . My best regards to anyone yoti see." 
COLONEL ELMER J. COLLINS dropped into my bookcr>* several weeks ago. He was in South Bend a couple of times this spring. First his father-in-law, Edward A. Everett. Sr.. died, and later Elmer was on his way throoigh town on im­portant matters for the U. S. Army out in Nevada on the atomic weapons testing. 
Father John Ca^*anaugh. C.S.C., was guest speak­er at tlie AVebsler College—Ncrinx Hall Apprccia­
 Night dinner include (left to right): Club 
President Earl Brieger; Leo Vogcl, toastmaster; Dr. Leo O'Donnell, national president of ND Alumni /Vssociation, with special award plaque; Edward Krause, guest speaker; and Father Vincent Brcnnan, Man of the Year winner. 
Xotre Dame Alumnus, Juty-Au£ust, 1955 
Z: 
JOHN R. WALLACE, '34 
The Zone Manager for Studebaker-Packard in Los Angeles is Jolin R. Wallace, '34. He heads the corps of district managers who contact Stude­baker dealers in Southern California, Arizona and Las Vegas, Nev. After graduating cum laude from Notre Dame's Commerce College, Jolin at­tended Columbia Law School in New York Cit)'. He started to work for tlie Studebaker Corp., in 1940. 
During \Vorld ^Var II, he began as a private and ended as captain in the anti-aircraft artillery' with 22 months service in England, France, Belgium and Germany. 
Before being assigned to his present position, John worked in a number of capacities with Studebaker including Car Distributor through District Man­ager, Truck Manager and Assistant Zone Manager. 
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace reside in Pasadena, Calif., and they are the parents of four children: Karen, Jolin, Mar)' and Kelly. 
tion Dinner* in May, at Uic Chase Hotel, St. 
Louis, Mo. 
HARRY W. FLANNERY recently addressed the 
Cross and Scroll Society at Holy Cross College, 
Worcester, Ma^s. His topic u-as "Beliind Toda>'*s 
Headlines." 
J. ROY DEE \%*as recently elected mayor of Mount Caimel, 111. 
1924 1925 


36 Kotrr 
Rev. Thomas A. Kelly, CS.C. 4001 Harewood, N.E. Washington, D. C. 
John P. Hurley 1218 City Park Avenue Toledo, Ohio 
Dame AlumnuSj July-August, 1955 
John J. Ryan 

 1926 
245S Greenlcaf Avenue Chicago 45, Illinois 
The secretary, JOHN RYAN, writes: 

As you perhaps have already noticed in tlie statistical pages, wc have lost another classmate. JIM BOWEN died suddenly on April 29 of a heart attack. After IcaWng school, JIM went to Indianapolis where he has been connected with Sterling Laundry Company for the intervening years. ART HALEY has arranged a Moss for JIM and please remember him in your prayers. 
The s>inpathy of the Class is extended to GEORGE HARTNETT in the recent death of his mother. 
No doubt you all noticed in tlie recent issue of the ALUMNUS that Spotlight Alumni bio­graphied R^\Y DURST. At the risk of losing my "job", I am taking a crack at the editors of this publication for their failure to include in the write-up covering Ray the fact that he is president of the Class of *26. (Ed. Note: Mea culpa.) While I haven't talked to Ray recently, I know that his duti'S an class president have him actively planning for our 30th reunion next year. 
AVhat are you planning? 

Information has just been received that the father of MSGR. ^VILLIAM GREEN died in Burlington, Iowa, on April 19. Msgr. Green is editor of the Catholic Weekly, "The Wtness," that is pub­lished in Dubuque, lou-a, and he is also a member of the faculty at Loras College. 
Mr. and Mrr. ROBERT VINCENT DUNTS'E announce the marriage of their daughter, Sarah Jane, to Mr, ^^ario Amoroso on .April 16 in Carmel, Calif. 
192 7 Steve Ronay 
• yA# 2829 Applctrcc Lane South Bend, Indiana 

PHILIP LOPRESTI, 755 WVnc Street, Johns­town, Pa., recently received the Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice Cross which was a^^'arded by His Holiness Pope Pius XII. The Bishop of the diocese presented the citation. Phil's son graduated from Notre Datne In engineering several years ago. 
JOE BOL.\ND, sports director of WSBT and WSBT-TV x\ South Bend, Indiana, recently re­ceived one of tliree Brotherhood A*vards giv-cn by the South Bend-Mishawaka Round Table of the National Conference of Christians and Jews. 
JOHN GEARY, and his wife returned to the campus on Tuesday, April 26 to observe the Silver Anniversary of their wedding with a speaal Mass in the Log Chapel where they were married 25 years earlier. Geary is a Chicago businessman. Among those present were their son, John, Jr., who recently returned from Korea; llicir daughter, Jean, a junior at Marquette University, and their son. Bill, a freshman at Notre Dame. The Mass was celebrated by FATHER PHILIP SCHAERF. Also present was PROFESSOR PAUL FENLON of the English Department who had attended their wedding at the Chapel 25 years ago. 
FORT WA'VTVE—Prof. Edmund A. Smith, assistant dean of the Collei^e of Commerce, ^vas featured speaker on UND Night. Jerry O'Dowd (right) scr\*cd as toastmaster of the affair. 
19? 8 Louis F. Buckley I 7AW J253 North Central Avenue Chicago 51, Illinois 
I wish to extend our sympathy to LOUIS NOR­MAN on the death of his father and to ED Mc KEOWN on the death of his mother* Please remember them in your prayers. 
The many friends of Father MIKE MULCAIRE, CS.C , will be sorr>- to hear that he had a serious heart attack in February. I \-i3ited him in April in the University Infirmary and found him to be as interested in the Class of 1928 as ever. Please drop a note to him at Notre Dome. 
Internal Revenue Agent ED R.AFTER reports that the following '28 men attended the Chicago Universal Notre Dame Night obser\-ancc: JIM ALLEN (Lumbermen's Mutual Casualt>- Co.), RAY MULLIGAN (Chicago Title and Trust Co.), BILL MURPHY (Diversey Corp.), BERT KORZEN (Cook Countv Probate Court), BOB AVINTERS / (Armour & Co.), FRANK CREADON (Metrt>-*»c politan Life Insur^c^ Co.), BILL DWYER (Ray­mond C. Hudson & Assoc), Judge JOHN LYONS (Cook County Superior Court), JOHN RICKARD (Armour S: Co.), DAVE SMITH (McCarthy Be Smith, Archs.), and practicing attorneys BOB GRAHAM, BILL C\RNEY, and DICK PHELAN. I regret that a graduate class in social insurance which I teach at Loyola University interfered %vith mv attendance at the affair. 
MEXICO CITY—Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CS.C,, presents the Man of the Year award to Guillemio Alvarez Morphy. Left to right; Pedro Telmo dc Landcro; Father Hesburgh; Morphy; Jose Luis Requena; Richard C. Leon. Father Hesburgh spoke at the dinner meeting. 
BOB WINTER recently moved from Omaha, Neb., to Chicago where he is with Armour & Co. Bob and his family live at 841 Forest Ave., Oak Park, 111. Speaking of moving reminds me that pEORGE LEPPIG is now located at 1927 Arthur 
S^i:, Hollywood, Florida. We would like to hear from you, Georsc. 
Our Class President, FRANK CREADON, who was in New York on Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. business, had a good luncheon session there on St. Patrick's day with GEORGE CRONGEYER, BILL CRONIN and JOHN WINBERRY. GEORGE CRONGEYER is also with the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. and is itiU single. Frank reporu that George is the '>t>ungest looking member of our class. George received a M.S. degree at Columbia University last year. BILL CRONIN as you know, has five children. His oldest son, Vaughn, was graduated from Naval Academy last year. JOHN WINBERRY, who practices law in Rutherford, N. J., is married and has three cJiiI­dren, the youngest being less than one vcar of age. 
^R/VNK CRE^VDON also mentioned that EUGENE i'-hlLLIPS, a chemist with the Pure Oil Co. in Chicago, has a son in the army. 
BILL JONES reports that he got together with JOE ABBOTF, DICK WEPPNER, FR^VNK DON­OV;\N, and HUDSON JEFFERYS In Washington, 
D. C , after the Navy game. 
FRANK DAVID, spent an evening with us in Chicago recently. He is with the Welch Grape Juice Co. and lives with his wife and young son, age 8, at 120 Union St., Westficid, N. Y. Frank is project engineer for all civil engineering aspects of construction and maintenance for 10 food pro­cessing pbcis. He resigned last year from the Corps of Engineers, U. S. Army, after 26 years contimious service. Frank and his family were in French iforocco at the time of our reunion where he assisted the Engineering Division, Design Branch, ^ji the building of air bases for our Air Force. '^Thcy also visited Bavaria, Swit2crlaJid and Italy where they had an audience with the Pope. Frank has seen JOHN BURNS, who is in the advertising business in Brookland, BILL KELLY, N. Y. C. High School teactier in health education, and 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA—John TuUy 
JACK LAVELLE, who distinguished himself as toastmaster at our 25-year reunion luncheon. 
My reporter ED RAFTER tells me that BOB GRAHAM recently gave a talk before the Illinois Bar Assn. on corporation reorganizations. Bob is a partner with the legal firm of Gardner, Carton, Douglas, Roemcr & Chtlgren in Chicago. 
Several members of the Class of '28 distinguished themselves. according to the 1954 N. D. Founda­tion Report. The State of Ohio achieved 100% of its quota amount under Ohio Fund Governor TOM BYRNE of Cleveland. He was ably assisted by JOHN C. FONTANA and GEORGE J. SAR­GUS who obtained 100% of their participation quota In Columbus and Wheeling-Bellaire. The following '28 men achieved between 90 and 100 percent of tlicir quota in their areas: JOHN J. >\1NBERRY as New Jenscy Governor, and JOHN 
J. WINGERTER, BILL HURLEY and PHIL BERTHIAUME as City Chairmen in Asbury Park, Springfield, Mass., and Portland, Oregon, respec­tively. JOHN FONTANA, who received the "Man of the Year" award by the Columbus Club in 1954, is an attorney in Columbus, Ohio. John has two children, ages 12 and 17. PHIL BERTHI.AUME is Regional Manager of Bankers Life Co. in Port­land, Oregon, and has one child, age 16. BILL HURLEY, who is an insurance general in Spring­field, Mass., has four children, ages 6 to 10. The last -report I had on JOHN J. WINGERTER yvas that he was Vice-President and General Manager for the New York firm of Louis de Rochemont Associates, Inc. producers of motion pictures. GEORGE SARGUS operates the Tliomas Day Dry Goods and Shoe Co. in Wheeling, West Virginia. He has two children, ages 11 and 15. TOM BYRNE is probably too busy raising funds to give us a report on himself recently. I assume he is still with the telephone company in Cleveland. I gave you :•. report on JOHN \VINBERRY earlier in this column. These '28 men have our congratula­tions on having done an outstanding job for the 
N.D. Foundation in 1954. 
I spoke recently in Milwaukee at an Employment Security Institute sponsored by the University of Wisconsin and the International .-Vssociation of Personnel in Employment Security on the subject 
 (right) was named Man of the Year. Club 
President John O'Connor presented the award and Richard Bowes (center), was guest speaker from the campus. 
JOSEPH C. HARKEVS, JR., '48 
Joseph C. Harkins, Jr., '48, has been appointed staff patent attorney for Congoleum-Naim, Inc., of Kearney, New Jersey. 
He is a magna cum laude graduate in chemical engineering, and as an undergraduate was business manager of the Technical Review, chairman of the chemical engineers ball and presi­dent of the campus chapter of Ameri­can Institute of Chemical Engineers. 
In 1946 and 1947 he served in the army of occupation in Korea and held the rank of sergeant when discharged. After graduation he received a law degree from St. John's University, Brooklyn, and for the following three years was in the patent law section of General Foods Corporation. 
Joe's achievement in u-irming the Congoleum-Naim appointment is un­usually noteworthy because the com­pany had set 30 as the absolute mini­mum age for the position. He made it at 26, running ahead of a much more experienced field. 
Joe married the former Jeanne Rohel and they have one daughter, 14 months old. The family residence is at 160 Lakeview Avenue, Lake Erskine. 
N.J. 
of the Guaranteed Annual Wage and Unemploy­ment Insurance. I met there a colleague of JOE BOYLE from IjiCrosse, ^Visconsin. Joe is with the Wisconsin State Employment Service in LaCrosse. He has several grandchildrea and a daughter at Marquette University. 
In response to a suggestion from several members 
^orr* Dam* Alumnus, Juty-August, 1955 37 

DALLAS—Club officers and s^ucsts include, front row (left to right): Joseph M. Haggar, Jr., president; Father Hesburgh, speaker on UND^ Night; His Excellency, Bishop Thomas K. Gomian. Back row (left to right): J. M. Reichcnstcin, Jr., first vice-president; Warren Higgins, secretary*; J. J. Fisch, second vice-president; Joseph P. Rud, treasurer, and John Moran, outgoing president. 
of the ciasi. I am review ing the political acthity of tlic members of the class. It is hoped that you will sdv,se mc of omissions, so I cran supplement this report in the next issue. 
BOB GRANT achieved the highest political office of any clas."mate. He ser\'ed as Member of Congress from 1938 through 1948. Bob, who is now a South Bend attorney, was one of the fir^t to promote the Eisenhower candidac\' in Indiana and sen'ed as a delegate to the 1952 national convention. 
Several members of the class have had dis­tinguished judicial careers. JOHN* CULLINAX recently resigned after twelve years on the Su­perior Court of Connecticut. Jolm was considered a possible Democratic candidate for Governor ot Connecticut last year until he withdrew from the race. Judge JOHN LYONS is a member of the Cook County Superior Criminal Court. He ser\'ed as Republican Committeeman in Chicago and as an assistant probate Judge prior to his election to the Superior Court. BERT KQRZEN is Clerk of Cook County^s Probate Court. He has been active in Democratic politics in Chicago and has ser\'cd as Chief Attornev for the election board. AL FRANTZ is a judge in Denver. MAURICE CON­LEY has been elected three times since 1942 as City Judge in Fulton, .\. Y. JOHN FREDERICK is Justice of the Peace in North Muskegon, Michi­gan. He served as Commissioner of the Michigan Labor Mediation Board from 1941 to 1947. 
Although our class sur\'ey at the time of our 25-year reunion indicated at least four members of the class had serx'ed as members of State Legislatures, I can identify only one, TO.M TRAUGHBER in Tennessee in 1935. Who are the others? FR^\NK HOGAN who sen.cd on the Chicago City Council for a number of years, TOM JONES of the Boisti City Council from 1938 to 

1947, and BILL HURLEY of the Springfield, Mass., 
Board of Aldermen in 1932-33, are the only former 
City Counctlinen whom I can identify. 
Several classmates have served in various public legal capacities. TOM TRAUGHBER is District Attorney General of the State of Tennessee. Afont­gomer>* County. JOE HANEY was elected a year ago for his second three-year term as Wayne County District Attorney in N. Y. Tlie following class­mates have served as assistant attorney general: JOE K!NNE.\RY, (Ohio 1949-50), JOHN FON-. TANA (Ohio, 1937-39), HAYES MURPHY (IlirT) nois, 1940-41), and BILL JONES (Montana, 1935­37). GEORGE BEr\.MER was Attorney General for the State of Indiana, 1941-42. CAP GRy\TH­WOL was citv attorney in Niles, Michigan, from 1933 to I94G. 
Others who arc active In politics include JIM SHOCICNESSY, Chairman of the Ohio Turnpike 
CONNECTICUT—Sponsored by the Naugatuck Valley club this year's UND Night celebration was state-wide and included all N.D. alumni groups in Connecticut. Head table (left to right): Foundation Governor Tim Afurphy, Hartford; Jim Flaherty, president Connecticut Val­ley Club, Hartford; Dr. Joseph Clifford, president New Haven Club; Rev. Terrence P. McMahon; Norbert Henebry, co-chairman, secre­tary Naugatuck club, Watcrbury; John Jordan, guest speaker; Father Robert Keating, toastniaster; James J, Scigliano, co-chairman, treasurer Naugatuck Club; Rev. John J. Sullivan; Walter P. Marut, president Naugatuck Valley; William Mulrenan, president Southwest Connecti­cut Club; Rev. Eugene Aforiarty. 
OREGON—Albert M. "Duke" Hodler (right) receives Man of the Year aivard on UND Night. Presentation was made by Hon. Frank J. Lonergan (center) with Club President William Meaj ;her signifying approval. 
Coin mission, who was Vice Chainiian of tli** Ohio Democratic State ExL-cuttvc Committee and a Prciideniial elector In 1948. ED DUFFY has been a iiiembiT of the X. V. E-sse-K County Re­publican Committee since 1939. JOHN* VlN ­
^^^HERRY is active tn N. J. Democratic politics and was a candidate for Governor in the priniar\' a few yeais ago. KENNETH POWER, Deputy Comity Clerk and Deputy Supreme Court Clerk in Rochester, N. Y. is Past Republican Executive Committeeman end Republican State Committeeman in N. Y. BILL HURLEY scr\ed as Chairman of the Springfield. Mass., Democratic City Committee from 19'M to 1942 and as a member of the Spring­field Board of Aldermen in 1932 and 1933. LEO WALSH of Grand Rapids. Michigan, is Secretary* of the Kent County Democratic Committee. BILL ARMIN is Chaimian of the Dowagiac. ^fichigan. City Republican Committee. FR^VNK CRE^VDON is ver\* active in Democratic politics in Riverside, Illinois. 
A number of oar classmates are members of local 

•school boards Including ERNEST RIEDER {Prcsi­Ir^'Jxnt Trenton. Mich. School Board). VINCE C\R­/ NEY (Roclielle. 111. for 21 years). FR^VNK CON­
NORS (Arcade, .V. Y., 13 years) and JOHN ROBINSON (West Hartford. Conn.). 
JOHN ROBINSON u-a? executive secretar>" to Robert Hurley when he was Governor of Connecti­cut in 1942, BILL CRONIN was executive assistant to the V. S. Postmaster General from 1940 to 1945, 
Now let me give you a round-up of classmates whose nanie.s haven't appeared for some time. TOM BOV has ser\ed for 15 years as Chief Engi­neer on the M.S. Esso Little Rock, an oi] lanker. ED H.VGERTY, who practices law in Toledo, has three children, ages 3 to 12. I hear from friends in Munci;, Indiana, that DICK GREEN continues as newspaper columnist and editorial writer on the Muncie Star. Dick is ver\- active [n civic 
,-siiTairs. including the Chamber of Commerce, the historical society, llic Kiwanis Club. Y.M.C.A.. K. of C . and Tuberculosis .-Vssoclatlon. FRANK CONNERS, wlio is village Clerk-Treasurer of Arcade. N. Y., and of the public utilities in lliat area, hxt two childrt-n, ages 9 and 10. He has ser\ed as President of the Municipal Electric Utili­ties -Assoc, of N. Y. State. BOB KIRBY, who dis­tinguished himself zis tiiastniaster at the Alumni banquet in 1953, continues as owner of the Kirby Mortuary (corporal w-orks of mcrc\-). Bob has six children, ages 5 to 23. He has a daughter at St. Louis University. One of his twin daughters is an Indianapolis public school teacher and the other is a dental assistant. I have heard rumors In Indianapolis that Bob may be the mayor of liis hometown in the futiire. JIM HARTLEY, who Is Chief Clerk with tht American Can Co. In Hi>­
?K.'^boken. N. J., has one son, age 14. JI.M KExVRNS. 
•^X *ho has a Chevrolet dealership in Benton, Wis.. 
has three children, ages 4 to 16. JOE KISSLING, attorney with the Grumman Aircraft and Engineer­ing Corp. in Brightwaters. N. Y.. has three daught­ers, ages 8 to 17. TURK MEINERT, who is with the .•Mlegheiiy Building Co. tn Pituburgh, has four children, ages 5 to 12. PHIL O'CONNER, senior film ser\-ice correspondent for the Eastman Kodak Co. In Rochester, N. Y.. is still single according to my last report. a\RROLL PLVKLEY, who is also not married, is a partner in the Ptnkley Drug Co. in Portageville, Missouri. BILL PLUCHEL, Director for mail and express for Trans-World Airlines, lives in Douglaston. L.L.. N. Y., and has one son, age 10. CHARLIE SCHLEGEL, a manu­
PEORIA—Prof. Robert F. Er\*in (left, seated) 
facturer's representative with Gerals Wilson Sales in Detroit, has three sons, ages 13 to 20. Charley was assistant to the manager of the Detroit OfHce of the National Association of Manufacturers, I95I­
33. HARRY SCHUBMEHL, sales manager for Morsch Truck & Implement Co., Wayland, N. Y., has two sons, ages 6 and 13. WALTER TOUS­SAINT, research chemist project supervisor. Carbide Carbon Chemicals Co., So. Charleston, W. Va., has five children, ages II to 20. His oldest daugh­ter Is at St. Mary's of the Woods. 
I noticed a Ictt-r by BILL BROWN on farm price programs In the correspondence column of America, April 2, 1955. Bill, who is Assistant General Attorney of Allis-Chalmcrs Co. !n Mil­waukee, also operates a farm near Epworth, Iowa. Bill has five children, ages 10 to 21. 
I am aware of eleven of us who are celebrat­ing 2jth-ycar wedding anniversaries this year, in­cluding JOE BREIG, AL SCHNURR (Feb. 6), JIM INGR.\M (March 19), BOB EVANS (June 5), LES CARRIG (June 10), JOHN CARROLL (Aug.). HENRY AL'iSSMAN (Oct. 15), BOB NICKELLS (Nov.), CHRISTIE FLANAGAN (Nov. 24), JOE MORRISSEY (Dec 27), and your Class Secretary' on Dec. 29. Of this group, JOE BREIG and HENRY MASS.MAN each has five children. JOHN CARROLL, AL SCHNURR, CHRISTIE FLANNAGAN and JOE S. MORRIS­SEY each with four; BOB EVANS and I have livo eacli, and JI.M INGRAM and BOB NICKELLS each has one son. ^Vs far as I am aware, I am the only cnc of this particular group with two grandchildren. Possibly JOHN CARROLL and BOB EVANS who also have married children are in tile grandfather class by now. Of this group. HENRY MASSMAN and JOE S. MORRISSEY each ha'i two sons at N. D. and AL SCHNURR and LES CARRIG have one there. Please advise me of other classmates who arc celebrating their silver wedding anniversary this year. 
I visited EUGENE A. O'BRIEN recently in Hopkins, Minnesota. I found him behind a cluttered desk wearing his hat in typical news­paper style in the office of the local nett^spaper. Gene has a son studying medicine at Minnesota University and a daughter at St. Catherine's Col­lege in St. Paul, and three younger children. He visited his N. D. roommate, TROY BONNER, recently in Jackson, Miss. .According to Gene's 
 was UN D Night speaker. Others in photo 
are Rev. John Sweeney; Jack Jacobs (left, standing), president; and Dr. C. V. Ward, Jr., vice-president. 
ffotn Dame AlumnuSf July-August, 1955 

PHILADELPHIA—UND Night guesU included Terry Brennan as speaker, John P. Dempsey, retiring president, and William G. Burns (standing), incoming president. 
report, Troy is a State oflidal witli the ^(is­stssippi Highway Drpartmcnt, is sUll single and ver>* youthful looking. Gene also adxiscd that LEOiV MOESER, also of Hopkins, had a son die of polio recently. BOB VOGELWEDE is now In Portland, Oregon, in the accounting field. LOU REGAN, according to Gene, is manager of the mail Order di\'ision of Sears-Roebuck Co. in the twin cities. 
Congratulations to JOHN ROBINSON on re­ceiving the 1955 Man-of-tlic-Ycar award from tlic Connecticut Valley Club. John, as you know. Is Headmaster of tl»e Robinson School at West Hartford, Conn. He has five children, including lu-ins, ages 8 to 17. John ser^xd as State Director of Selective Ser^^ce for Conn, from 1942 to 1947 and as member of the stiifT of the National Di­rector of Selective Service in 1947-48. 
1929 "Donald J. Plunkctt Bioloijy Department Notre Dame, Indiana 
The Class of *29 i%-ishcs to institute a Mass program for deceased members. Contributions will be accepted—$1 to $5—by the Alumni Office. FRANCIS JONES and DON PLUNKETT MII supervise the Mass program for deceased members fund. Recent contributions, each in the sum of $5, include JOE WHALEN and Francis Jones. 
JOSEPH G. FRIEL is a member of a com­xnittee of Joseph £. Seagram and Sons executives to plan the company's nev%- executive headquarters. 


40 Noire Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1955 
Plans estimate that the cost of the building will be 20 million dollars. 
1 Q^fl Deverc Plunkctt 
• '^^ O'Shaughncssy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 

Tiiis is a difficult column to »*Ti(e, what with little news to go on, and with a wealth of it just around the corner—the Reunion comer, to be exact, ten days away. TIic \'arious mailings did bring in some responses, but most of them were 
brief. 
GUS BONDI from Cincinnati said that he and JOHN HEILKER would be coming up for the affair. Gus was also seeking some literature on 
N.D. for a prospective student. GIL PRENDERGAST is coming in one day early for the reunion, because he has to leave a day early, to return for his son's high school graduation. This son incidentally has been accepted at N.D. for the fall session. DAN WELCHONS wrote in to help us correct a mailing error on TED J. RYAN of Hutchinson, Kansas. Hope to sec both of them under the Arch at reunion time. CHARLEY KLEFEKER \vas coming back to look things over after an absence of 23 years from the campus. I saw a reservation lineup in Lyons Hall that included Charley, NORNi LILLIG, LARRY ENRIGHT, and TOM LAWLER. Would 
hate to have the fob of prefecting that group in any hall. 
FRANK E. SULLIVAN, '49 

Frank E. Sullivan, '49, South Bend general agent for the American UnitecU Life Insurance Company, qualified for membership in tlie Million Dollar Round Table during 1954, and at the same time was the second highest in­dividual producer of business for his company. 
The Million Dollar Round Table is an organization of the National Asso­ciation of Life Underwriters. Member­ship in the select group is based on production of one million dollars of life insurance business during one yea-f^ under certain specific regulations, and on other strict qualification require­\ ments. It is the highest honorary group to which a life underwriter can attain membership. 
In addition to being the second high­est personal producer for the company, Frank also guided his agency to 13th place among all American United agencies in 26 states and Hawaii for 1954 paid production. 
He is a former secretary to Frank^^ Leahy, and has been general agent in South Bend for the past two years. Frank lives at 1421 E. Wa^-ne Street, with his wife, two sons, and two daushters. 
KARL BRENNAN of the W. T. Grant company wrote us of his reunion enthusiasm and among other things he said: 
'*I happened to be in Detroit during January, at the wedding of one of my nephews, and JIM and ^. JERRY SULLIVAN were there. ^Vc spent somv^J/ / time together during the reception and Grace ami I f 
JOHN A. LEMMER, '18 

, The Superintendent of the Escanaba, 
' Michigan, Public Schools, John A. Lemmer, '18, recently had the honor of having a new elementary' school named after him. The citation from the Board of Education read ". . . This man has endeared himself to thousands of people in this community .. . by his %'igorous and selfless leadership. . .". 
He is married to the foimer Emily Cripps who was awarded a Master of Arts degree from Notre Dame in 1933 

,'V'folIowing attendance during the sum­mer sessions. 
Since 1921 John Lemmer has served the Escanaba public schools as teacher, principal and superintendent. He also taught in the Department of Educa­tion at Notre Dame for seven summer sessions. 
After receiving a Ph. B. degree from Notre Dame, Mr. Lemmer was gradu­ated with the Master's degree from the 

H. University of Michigan. Michigan State Normal gave him an Honorarj' Master of Education degree in 1949. 
He is a veteran of World War I. 

Some of the other offices and organiza­tions with which he has been associated include: Past Grand Knight of the Escanaba Council; Past District Dep­uty, K. of C ; president of the Escan­aba Rotary Club; Director'of the State Bank of Escanaba; and Director of the i.., Michigan Society for Crippled Chil­
^ ' dren. 
1 spent a very pleasant evening at their beautiful home in Ro>-al Oaks. Jim did his best to gel some of the boys together but last minute com­plications entered the picture and ED NEBELL and MACK TRO.MLEY were held up. We talked to Ed and Mack on the phone and they are both coming down to the reunion if Jim has to bring out one of his many hearses for tramportatjon. Jim and I, also, called TOM FROST, in Madbon, and D\S SULLIVAN, in Massachusetts, but we were unable to get a line through. Tom Frost has since called me and he is coming for sure. Tom, aUo, said that he had heard from ED REDMOND (out in California) and Ed is certain to be there. Jim and I discussed ways and means of contacting fellows we knew back at school but couldn't arrive at a definite method of procedure. We are, however, hoping that all of them will be there. We can almost bet on Don Sullivan to attend if it is physically possible for him to make it. I haven't heard from DENNY SHANAHAN in years and Jim and I both sincerely hope that he will make it. GIL KEKWAN is listetl among the missing and none of u2 have heard from him since the 1950 reunion. 
"On the local scene, we are very busy at the present time making arrangements for Universal Notre Dame Night. It is going to be quite a night here inasmuch as we have a wonderful pro­gram lined up. Tliis is a very active club even though only a year old. So far, we have two boys down at school on scholarships. 
"I run into TOM KEEGfVX quite a bit. His office is across the street from my store and the law-firm of Foltz, Have, and Keegan is one of the best in town. Tom has assured me that he h going to be at the reunion. 
"AL MON*TI and I run into one another at St. Peter's zn Sunday morning and Al is, also, going to be down. .-M is the comptroller of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield in tlie region. 
"Well, Dev, that is all for the present. Everyone I have talked to from our class is making a special efTopt to attend the reunion so I believe you can count on a big turnout." 
BUN BROEKER of the Bethlehem Steel Com­pany wrote a note of regret at his inability to attend the reunion. His daughter is graduating from high school at that time, and that is a must in any family. Bun is assistant to a vice-president of the Bethlehem Steel. 
JUDGE McDOUGAL of Antigo. Wisconsin, will be here for all the festivities. Mac had no op­position for clsction this year, so he has another 6 year term on the bench there. Congratulations, your honor, would you be willing to set up a temporary court here on the first floor of Lyons to handle traffic violations, and so forth? 
JOHN VOSS of Elkhorn, Wisconsin, reserved a room in Lyons for the three days, and many other la%%'ycr5 will be joining John that weekend. For example. BOB EGGEMAX and FRED SCHOPP.MAN will be on hand from Fort Wavne. LOUIE CHAPLE,\U from South Bend, an able barrister, wilt be on hand to mix it up with the rest of the lawyers. 
JOHN GIBBONS of the Automotive Safety Foundation, Washington, D. C , will be driving out early for his son's graduation here. Then they will all depart for Washington and leave John in the South Bend environs for a whole week. And how he knows these South Bend environs! John is going to lirlp us out a lot in preparation the last week leading up to the reunion. Then he is going to write an article on "How to celebrate a 25th anniversary reunion in 10 short days". 
TIM TOOMEV worked hard in the East arousing classm^itcs there for the trek westward. He worked out some good travel plans, and circulated them widely in that sector. Tfie at­tendance ought to be a lot better because of his efforts. 
Another reservation block for Lvons Hall listed FRANK DRISCOLL, J» f FRIEL, JOE FRIEL and JOE LENIILVN. This group has prepared some real fun ior the reunion, and it can't miss. 
BILL BROM.\NN from Oak Park, Illinois, has a son who is a freshman a.t N.D. Bill visits the campus now and then, and will be on hand for the reunion at Lyons Hall. He is in the business of manufacturing commercial refrigerators. BILL MILLER, the insurance magnate, will be up from Jackson, Misstssippi for a taste of that northern hospitality. 
LEO McALOON, the versatile man around 
JULES DE LA VERGNE, '33 

One of the South's outstanding architects is Jules K. de la Veigne, '33, who designed the new multi-million dollar railroad terminal in New Or­leans, La. Following graduation from Notre Dame's Department of Archi­tecture, he attended the Harvard Graduate School of Design. Later Jules woried in the New Orleans office of a prominent architectural firm acquiring further training and experi­ence. 
After starting his own private prac­tice in 1939, the office was temporarily closed during World War II when Jules served as a Naval officer with the Amphibious Forces in the Pacific. 
Since 1946 he has been architect for several parochial and public school buildings, for new structures erected at Loyola University and Louisiana State University, for several hospitals, and for the above mentioned New Orleans Union Passenger Terminal. 
He served as president of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of New Orleans for three successive terms, and was one of the founders and past presidents of the Serra Club. In 1954 N.D. alunmi selected him as the Man of the Year. He has been active for the past few years as Foundation Governor for Louisiana. Jules is married and the father of a 16-year old daughter and a 3-year old son. 
Notre Dame Atumnur, Jidy-August^ 1955 41 

liberate mien of expert Iiandicappcrs. As for the game, you will get as many explanations as there were spectators in the stands. 
1921 James T. Doyle i I #«#• 9Q2 Oakton Street 
\

Evanston, Illinois DAN D. HALPIN has been appointed assistant general manager in charge of Marketing and general sales manager of the Wcstinghousc Corporation's Telension Radio Divbion, Metuclicn, N. J. Dan has been with the DuMont Laboratories since 1952 as general sales manager of the company's Receiver Division. FRANK LEAHV u-ill be on a tcleWsion football forecast show over about 130 stations this fall for the Dupont Company. It will be in the interest of sales promotion of Dupont products Zeronc and Zerex. R/\Y CONNORS has been recently appointed as head of the newly-organized department to centralize public relations activities of its x-arious > clients in the firm of Stromberger. LaVcne. Mc-^ Kenzie, Inc., 600 So. Lafayette Park Place, Los Angeles, Calif. 
1939 Janics K. Collins 
• '^ ^ 3336 Kenmore Road Shakcr Heights, Ohio 
I 

GABE MORAN, at whose home I spent a very pleasant weekend this spring, told me that PORKY LAVELLE had been seriously injured in an auto accident recently. He has recovered sufficiently to return to work at Republic Steel. ED DeBARTOLA is still in the contracting and real estate business in Youngstown, and is busy building a new shopping center. He owns and operates several ho has built in that area. Gabc also told mc that NEIL HUR­LEY had suffered a severe heart attack. 
I saw TOM McKEVITT and TIGHE WOODS < at the Communion Breakfast in Washington, and r we later met for luncli and a short session. Tom is with the Justice Department, and Tighc is in the real estate business in Washington. 
COLMAN O'SHAUGHNESSY is the Midwest manager of Motor Si-rvice Magazine and says he is much happier doing this than being a sales-manager. He lives in Fremont, Ohio. 
FRAN OELERICH wrote that he had spent most of the winter in South America. He planned to be in Cleveland for the Super Market Institute to see how Old Manse Syrup was being received but I missed seeing him then. 
SOUTHWESTERN CONNECTICUT—Club officers include (seated, left to right): Dr. Vincent Gomtan, president; Bob Tewksbury, treasurer. (Standing, left to right), Bob Griffin, 193 3 James A. McCabc vice president; and Dick Scannell, secretary. • '^ * 632 Forest Avenue 
River Forest, HI. 

TIic scene is the Notre Dame dining hall on a. < Rhode Island (Racing Steward and other activities) were the more contemplative types, the static June night in 1958. FATHER HESBURGH arises ' 
will come west for the reunion this year. Maybe figures of PAT CANNY and CHUCK ROHR,  announces: t
and 
he wants to go over and take a good look at that \-icwins the proceedings with the calm and de-"It gives me great pleasure to announce the gift Arlington plant north of Chicago, too. Leo's brother, Vin of the Class of 19S4 is teadiing at St. Francis Preparatory College, Springvalc, Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND—Notre Dame Man of the Year is Jules P. Goldstein, '95 (left). Club 
He will go to Rome this summer and remain there 
president James Murphy presents the award while Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., looks on. 
to teadi at a Franciscan college. He was there for two years during the Holy Year months as Manager at the American Catholic Club in Rome. 
JOHN HEALY of the Hayes-Healy Travel Bureau (Vanderbtit Better Tours) is going to try out some of his own merchandise and take a trip —to South Bend for the reunion. 
PHIL DiGIORGIO must miss the reunion be­cause it conflicts with a graduation in\'T>lving his daughter. Sorry to cross him off the list, but the graduation affair is a big event in the lives of both dad and daughter. 
Welcome notes from JOHN HARRINGTON, PETE WACHS of Chance Vought Aircraft and HAD MANSKE of Hardware Mutuals in Wis­consin—all headed this way on June 10. A phone call from GEORGE KINGSLEY in Pituburgh told mc of a dilemma he was tr>*ing to solve— then he would head westward for the 25th meeting. Tlie Hi\NLONS, Catherine and Harold, the lawyer team of Hanloa and Hanlon in Waterl>ur>', Con­necticut, are scheduled into South Bend next week. Harold for Lyons Hall, Catherine for the Morris Inn. This place is going to be jumping with laivyers and judges. 
At the Spring football game, it was a different setting (the high school field downtown), but a lot of the old faces. There was KOZIE KOZAK dashing about under full pack; and there was DOC VAICHULIS making like it was emergency and no Doctor Kildare in sight; and then there 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus^ JtHy-August, 1955 
of the class of 1933 on their 25th anniversary . . . a spiritual bouquet!*' Churns, that's what's aliead of us . . . unless you all get actn'ated about the class gift- Perhaps 
I there won't be much personal embarrassment for 
^ 'anyone except the ofHccrs—but in your hearts . . . on the way home from the reunion . . . won't you feel .1 little shamcraccd^^cclassc, if you'll excuse the pun? Our treasure* still stands where it stood the night wc took up a collection during the last reunion —minus some disbursements for Masses for dead classmates. Tlicre are times when I am tempted to blow the whole sum on a Ma-is for the entire Class .. . from the silence, it seems the whole group is dead. I'm sure it isn't that bad—but the efTect is the same. I have a suggestion, if anyone is listening. Will some class-mindcd guy in each big city tr\- to rouse his mates In that territory* lo have a rafTle, or a bf!cr party, or some other get-together—the 
• proceeds to go »o treasurer JOHX C/\HILL, Cahill 
\ -Electric Co., Dixon, III. Even more Important than the money would be the spirit aroused by such meets. And the saggv' old McCabe face would really glow If one or two would send In written accounts of such n gathering. Yoohoo—anybody out there? Ya hear me? President GEORGE ROHRS asks the prayers of the class for his father, who Is quite III. Had a nice note from ART BECVAR—he'll be going West on a business trip early In May and wanitd LES R.\DD.\TZ' address, which I was happy to provide. Art is with General Electric in Louisville, and Les with NBC in Los Angeles, and these guy; are certainly well equipped to discuss the pros and cons of big corporations. 
Hearing from Art reminded me to drop Les a line and ask him if he would mind sending me a few words now and then about things of X.D. 
J. Interest out yonder. If he has time, and NBC leaves him the energy, maybe Les could act as the catalyst I mentioned earlier in his area. Here are some other suggestions for sectional top-hands: Pres. Rohrs In New York; JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY and MAURY LEE In Chicago; JIM UPRICHARD in Cleveland; LUCE KE.MPF in Oklahoma territor>-; CHARLIE FERRIS In St. Louis; and BILL DREUX In New Orieans. 
Those are just a few suggestions—how about some volunteers for other sections and cities? Remember—'58 will be too late! 
This is written during the month of May, so I hope I dor/t have to belabor one of my favorite enthusiasms—devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mar>-. In case any of you arc looking for written docu­mentation on liou- important and elemental this devotion is—and some xvonderful suggestions on 
, best u-ays to practice it—I heartily recommend a 
' book entitled "True Devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mar>%" written by an obscure French priest named Louis Grignon de ^fontfort not much more than 100 years ago. As I say, he was a humble little cleric, who worked no miracles and had no friends at court. Except one, apparently—and She the most powerful of all intercessors, In the court of Last Appeal. Because in less than a hundred years Father dc Montfort had not only hit the Big Clime —officially declared as being in Heaven through canonization—but a religious order had been founded on his precepts and a thriving cult spread all over the world. Read it some time when 
you have a few moments—it's a small book, and 
you can get it for a buck at any Catholic book 
store. 
And it carries a terrific message. I'm even 
thinking of putting the cause for raising the '33 
Class Gift in Her hands! 
Drop a line, hey? (To Lonesome Joe.) 
19^ 4 T. Edward Carey 
• '*' ^ 18843 Inslewood Ave. Rocky RivcFj Ohio 
DR. JOHN B. BIRCH has been appointed 
health director of Bristol, Smyttie and Washington 
Counties In the State of Virginia. 
A letter from JAMES E. FAGAN, Raymond-Com­
merce Building, 11 Commerce Street, Newark 2, 
New Jersey. 
"Dear Ed, 
"At my home on January- 22, 1955, the 'Finch­
Ic\*s of *34' together • with some College of Com­
merce Regulars held an impromptu 20 year re­
union. The party u'as a 5 P. M. cocktail and 
supper affair, but ended up at 3 A. M. the next 
dav. Tlic Who's Who Is as follows: 
"JOHN M.VSTERSON and his wife, Ann—they 
have two boys, Billy and Bobbie. John Is with 
Fordham Press. He is as tall as ever and is still 
able to out-dance all at the party. He lives In 
Valley Stream. Long Island. N. Y. 
'*JIM REEVES and his wife, Marion—they have four children. Jim is practicing law in New York City, has an apartment in the City, but spends Jiis weekends at his country place. He still has 
the deril in him. 
"FRiVNK McCi\NN and his glamorous wife Dot 
live in South Orange, N. J. They have three 
boys, one is ready for N.D. in the Fall. Frank 
has his own business, stone-cutting and construc­
tion. H^ tackles the biggest jobs in the East. 
He has quieted down but Is excellent company. 
"GEORGE WENZ and his pretty wife Eva. 
They have seven children. Yes, I said 'seven.* 
George lives in Ridgewood, N. J. He has the 
biggest house in the town and he needs it. He 
is in the wholesale liquor business and numerous 
other enterpriser. He is still the dependable. 
Interesting and loyal fellow of college days. 
"JOE YOUNG and his wife Helen. Tlicy have 
two daughters, Helen and Mary Alice. Joe is 
with Lybrand Ross Bros, and Montgomery In 
accounting in New York City. He has a farm 
in Far Hill, N. J. and Is a gentleman farmer. 
"D/VX YOUNG and his wife .\tary. They have 
a daughter Mary An** and I might add a 'horse' 
(for Mary Ann). Dan is In the trucking business 
and he too, !•; a country gentleman living In 
Pottersville, N. J. Dan spends his weekends riding 
or taking care of the house, and he emphasizes 
a horse needb care. 
"DON BRICE and his u-ife Marietta—they have 
five girls—he says he is consistent. Don is with 
Dictograph In New York City—salesmanager. He 
lives In Scarsdale, N. Y. 
"R/\Y TROY and his wife 'Beachle'—they have 
a boy and a girl. Ray Is practicing law in 
Newark, N. J. He Is doing trial work and doing 
an excellent job. He is interested in the Essex 
Junior Troop and In free time is out teaching 
youngsterr lo ride. He is still the same grand 
guy. He lives In Montclair, N. J. 
"MAURICE RIGANTE afTectionately known as 
Mush-stlll up in Plalnfield, N. J. He never married 
Some members of the 1934 class c;et together for a bit of "reunioning." Included in the group are Don Brice, Ray Troy, Jim Fagan, Joe Young, Tom Dalton and Hugh Fitzgerald. KEN KRIPPENE, '23 
One of the world's foremost author-explorers is Ken Krippene, who for­merly practiced law and who gradu­ated from Notre Dame in the Class of 1923. In the 1940's he went to Holly­wood where he wrote and produced for radio. "Strange Wills", a transcribed half-hour show that stayed on the air for two years. 
Five years ago, after publication of his first book (a best seller) "Buried Treasure." Ken ended up in Peru where he wTote and directed a motion picture based on a lost Inca treasure. It was filmed in the deep jungle. Ad­venture-writing has a wide field and his stories have appeared in Collier's, Cor-* onet. Saga, The American Weekly and many other national publications. 
For the past several years Ken has returned to the States during the lec­ture season and has spoken before many well-known clubs and universities in connection with his work in South America. At the present time he and his wife are engaged in editing their new film. "Green Hell of the Amazon" which will have a Hollywood release in the near future. 
When not otherwise occupied on ari expedition. Ken and Mrs. Krippene spend their time on their small coffee plantation near Pucallpa, a j'ungle community in Peru. There they live in a palm-thatched hut, the floor of which is elevated about six feet off the floor to keep out marauding jaguars and poisonous reptiles. 
IfofTt Dame Mumnus, July-August, 1955 43 

ST. jOSErH WALLKY—UND Nij;ht parlicipants included (left lo rii;ht) Robert new president: Jerome Croulcy, who was named Man of the Year: Albert McGann. President; and Joseph Hannan. retiring president. 
 Lehman.  Honorary 

lype. Wc ini>ird I'aiil and Lucftte but xvc e.\pcci 
thfni lo visit uj soon, niey liavc four cliildrcii, 
ilic oldest hoy is ready for N.D. in Sfptcniljcr. 
'SVs for inc, my wife's name is Gt-n. Wc have three boys. I'm practiciiii;: law in Newark. X. J.. 1 '•. and live In Glen Ridj;e. N. J. It was tun and * ^ threat to have >een them all. Frankly, ihcv all seem to have gotten a bit older, all of tlieni I mean, but me. I'm still the >ame. exrept maybe I've jiaincd a little wei(;hi and lost a lot of hair, but those are minor items, 
'"It was fnn and I'm lookini; forward to anitther party. If anyone of tlie '114 t:roup hits these parts, i;Ive us a call and niayhe we can arrange another party i^ a liuriy." 
191 5 Franklvn C. Hochrciter ' '•'* ' 1327 Pcnlwood Road Baltimore 12, Maryland 
GEORCK *I'. .STKUART ha^ been appointed district Kiles manai<er in western and centnd New York and IVnnNvlvania for the Radio and Tele-­vision iliWsion, Sylvanln Elerlric I*ri.diirts. Inc. -7 He will make his he.idquarters in Rochester. .\'. V. 
J.\,\1I-:S C. .NtacDEVrrr, JR. , altomey-al-law and a certified public accountant, announces the openiiii; <:{ his ollice in the Empire Stale Huililint:, :tjO Fiftli .\\enue. New V,.rk 1. N. Y. 
ART CONRAD, piesident of the Ibrilaye Eoun­daiion, Inc.. recently was one of the yroijp who welcomed Vice-I'resideiit Ni\on to Chicago in the interest of the ll'.u Heart C'am|)aii:n. 
191 A -^- H. Moorman ' '•* " I70« Indiistrial Bank Bid-. Detroit 26. Michigan 
1937 **^"^ *'"'*^-' 
Executive \'ice-l*resident 
.MacMantis. John & Adams. Inc. L 
Bloomfield Hills. Michigan 

I..ist time one of these columns w.as written it was dalvtl March l(>th and started off with a litupini; cat; about St. Patrick's Day. Ity ihe linie 
—he is a very eliuible bachelor— says the i;irls 
are too smart to fall for him—i>ut confidentially, 
he is 'too shy'. Every wife at tin: party had just 
t>ie 'tnrl' fcr him. I'oor Mush, was side stepping 
all eveninc. 
"TOM DAI.TON and hi.' wife Anita-they have 
three cliildicn and live in Ridi:ew.HHl. N. J. He 
is out practicini: Kw in Fair Lawn. N. J. He 
has his <m II ttthre and is doing w ell. Tom is 
always there with a smile, a ureetini: and an 
cncouracim; word. He is interested in politics. 
"HUGH FITZGERALD and bis wife Mar>. He 

IS praclicine law in New York Ciiv, Thev live 
in Ridizewood, ,\'. J. They have several children. 
He is still the rosev.clieeked sniilini; Hugh. 
"JOILV FISHER and hi- .itiraciive wife Ursula. 

71icv have iwtt children and live in West Orange, 
N. J. He is with the Fisher Baking Co.—the better biead company in these parts; he said not to forget ihev handle nkes. etc. 
"JIM CLARK ('33) and his wife Millie. They have three cliildren—all boys—one is at N.D. 
already. .Millie looks like the boys' sister. Jim 
is in real estate and insurance. They h.ivc a home 
in Jersey City, but spend all the time they can at 
their home in Shelter Island. N. Y. Jim is a 
-^-aclitiuian—he lias the 'cap' and ever\l!iini:. 
**TO.\l DORSEY and bis wife Ann. They have 

eight children. He is a neighbor of Jim Reeves in 
New York City. He U a doctor, a 'pla.stic surgeon" 
and doim: a real Job, He hasn't changed a bit. 
"JOE DURKIN and his wife Kathy were in­

vited, but t!:c trip fntm Fort Worth, Texas, to Glen 
RJdgc, .V. J., was a. little long—trouble was antici­
pated getting a baby sitter for their three chil­
dren. However, about II I*. M. we called Te.\;is 
and got Joe on the telephone. Evervone in I In-
party talked with him—we had them lined up 
waiting their turn. The cost of the 'plume call?' 
I wasn't worried—We had reversed the charues. 
Poor Joe, it v\ould have been cheaper for luin 
to come up for the party. His brother Charlie 
Durkin and his wife Margare: cime to pinch hit 
lor Joe. 
"PAUL I^aFRA.MKOISE and his wife Lucelle A^re Invited. I called him in Quebec—he fell off the dialr when he received the call- They couldn't come because of hl.s folks 45tli Anniversary the same day. However, they were missed. Paul is with .Mean In Quebec—he is still the athletic 
44 Xotrf Danu- Alumnus, July-August, 1955 
I-LORIDA WEST COAST—Father John Cavanaugh was U.XD Nijiht speaker in St. Peiers­bursr. Al Johannes (left) and Tom Canfield were co-chairmen. 
U.b. Air 1-orce fiioto 

SOUTHERN' COLORADO—General Benjamin W. Chidlaw, USAF, receives Man of the Year citation from Club President William J. Donelan. Jr., in Colorado Springs on Universal Xotre Dainc Night. General Chidlaw is retiring as Commanding General of the Continental Air Defense Command. 
(lie priiii''(i ropy .irrivi-cl. hoi ami pantini;. at my dfsk it ^va^ till- fVf of Mriiiorial Day aiul the Iri-h irai;'. (lid r\arily jii'*! that. 
This coUiiiin IN hi'inii rivcird tniiftht-r on May 2!*th. Now, ao oil mi HI; that the old prosM-s hack of till- \raiii Uiiiidini; aro flill opt-raiim; on wait? tinu;, uc will sec this in print ;.onu'uluTi- around Cherokee Strip Day. Since iht-re is no possihh­way to ii'.f tlif Cht-rokcL* Strip as an *)pcnini; i;aniiiit uithont a iircat «h-al of rorarch. ue will Irap h«ddly into the turi:iti si ream. 
E\vr\tliini: said, writtrn or implied from now nn is suhjixt to thi- Statute of Limitation'. My precious pile of (pii'stionnaireN U now w<dl over a year old. Since tliey were written, hlusliini; hrides 
- have hecome nail-hilini; nioihers: bachelors liave iriven up tlie chase: neat little families that once fit nicely into twi>-l)eilrr>om houses with low ta.\eN have hun-eoned into four hedrooms and a shaiter­int; mormaiir. In '•hort. all the facts have mel­lowed, and thi; heinc the kind of Cla--* it i<. nio^l of (hem have crown. 
So hereV how it wa^ with some of the boys :ihout 13 months ato: 
I.OUIS PURCEIX. one of the best of the Benpal Routers, was at home in Palos Verdes Estates, California, uith his three children. Lou U operat­ini; his own business which has somelhint; to do with aluminum centrifncal castint;s. Heforf forgint* his own cast in-;, or castini; his own fttriiini;. Lou h.id 15 years in the aircraft business, seven at Consolidated Vuhfe. five at Lockheed and three at Iluiihes. 
^ Stickinc with th** West for the moment, we find f'^A. M.VURICE (.ALBERT M.) SCHAFER, lumber­man. loRccr and shipper, operating in and o!it of 
Montesano, \Va-« hint; Ion. Here is a r(umli idea of what could happen if \ve'd all chuck the type­writers and liead for the hilU: "We sp.-nl four nionilio in Europe dniint: Holy Year . . . oriiani/ed a new National Hank in .Vhenh-en . . . tried my liand at tlrillint; oil and h.aven't done bad back in Kentuckv." What happened with the logcinc, AI? 
Tuckei! in ainoni; the questionnaires, which by now look like ihey were printed on day-old bread, is a nice letter from JOH.V L-VLTAR. The letter i- 15 months oUl but the solid e.\ccutlve-lype bond paper is as cood as new, .And so. I hope, is John, who is with Fostori.a Glass Co. in Moundsvillc. \Vest Virginia. Ohviou-Iy, John is extremely fond of the .t:Ia>3 \*iirks and invites one and all to 
•^top
 in to watch a mo^t intrittuini; manufartiirtng proce-s. The coaching staff will have to look right pa--! Lantar and his two ilauditers. We'll have to lo-e more than one came a year before Rrennan 'tarts using \\'cst Virginia girls. 

Just to prove we can hit to all fields and still 

•>t.-iy
 in liie plas^ business, we give you CHARLES 

J.
 GRAHAM of \\'aco. Texas who is Purchasing .Accnt for Owens-Illinois Glass Co. Incidentally, class companies seem to hold onto good men. Lautar joined Fostoria right after graduation and Chuck has I.'i years with Owens—that Is unless the whole thine shaltere<l since February-. 1954. Chuck has two sons. For reasons known only to himself he would like t<. htar from CV STROKER, AL BRIDE, and ED G.VNNON. 


It's just a short hop from the glass business to the writing bnsine.s>—all you do is fill the g^^S-So here's GENE LING, in Los .Angeles, writing for T\ ;>nd "moom pitchas." .As of March I, 
WILLIAM E. MAHIX, '28 

William E. Mahin, '28, has recently been appointed vice-president and di­rector of research at Hunter Engineer­ing Co., Riverside, Calif. Prior to the announcement he had been technical director of the Vanadium Corporation of .\merica. 
Bill Mahin is highly recognized in the field of metallurgy in the United States and has often been distinctively honored by it and allied fields. 
Before coming to the Vanadium Corporation, Bill ser\ed seven years as director of research for the Armour Research Foundation in Chicago, 111. For nine years, prior to that, he was manager of the inetalhugical engineer­ing division at the East Pittsburgh, Pa., works of W'estinghouse Electric Corp. 
His affiliations have included the chairmanship of the Advisory Com­mittee for Metallurgical Education for .American Societies for Metals, mem­bership on the Research Fund Com­mittee of the -American Society of Tool Engineers. He is the only metallurgist on the Scientific .Advisory Council for the Rock Island .Arsenal. 
Mr. and Mrs. Mahin have three children, Richard, Philip and Mrs. Jack R. AVheeler. Bill's father was the late Dr. E. G. Mahin, who was head of the Department of Metallurgy at Notre Dame for manv vears. 
1954, Gene h.id sue children. In spite of the obvious indnstr>' Mtth which he has applied himself to the creative business. Gene has found time to keep in loose touch u-ith JIM B.\CON, DON 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ July-August, 1955 45 

CONNECTICUT—At the state-wide UND Night meeting in Waterbury the following were named *Man of the Year' by their respective clubs (left to right): Joseph Burns, New Haven; John Robinson, Hartford; Dr. Carl Pettcrsch, Danbury; James Scigliano, Watcrburj'; and John Jordan, guest speaker from ND. 
MANNING in Washmgton and JOE O'NEILL, awash in oil in Midland, Texas. 
GEORGE FEELEY is «n the oihcr side of tlic 

ball park—in Wcslfiold, New Jersey, where he is 
3 manuractttrcr nf process control equipment. I 
knm*' of several processes I would like to see con­
trolled but George is rather cr^-ptic about it. His 
business card contains iwo mx-stifying words In red: 
"Trinity" and "Industrial.*' Nou-if he proposes 
to control both those processes he's got his work 
cut out for bim. I'll tell >"ou. 
Down in Tulsa. Oklahoma, RxVLPH E. HRUSKA is Assistant Secretary' of tlie Serx'icc Pipe Line Co., the transportation subsidiary of Standard Oil Co. (Indiana). After Notre Dame, Ralph got his Law degree from Tulsa U. and then hooked on with the largest pipe line company in the countr>'. 
I certainly hope we arc not setting ofT a nation­wide traumatic wave with our reports of live, six and seven children to the hive. Tliis horrible thought that we might be causing less gifted fathers to feel abashed comes out cvcr>' now and then when wc read a wistful, slightly crestfallen note from some lad reporting one daughter. Usually the vital statistic is followed by some such phrase as "Rui sh-'s a dear" or ''Had a lough time getting out of the .\nny" or simply "Tliat's all." Let this re-assure you—there's room in this column for ever>'­body and none need hang back, tugging at the fot^­lock simply because tlic>-have so few deductions. 
Tliat should re-assure JIM NOLAN up there in Natick, ifas«. who, way back in September. 1952. wrote th<it he was now a Senior Controller of air­craft for the C.-A.A. At that time Jim said: "I don't have much news for your vital statistics. I have but one daughter. I'll write later if I get some news," Haven't heard from blm since. 
Well, let's get on with balancing the books. DANIEL P. MAHONEY, M.D., lives in Troy, Ni-w York and has six children. With typical pro­fessional precision he mentions n^t a single name but lists all the ages—in March, 1954, they ranged from 11 dmvn to t^vo. By now the range is un­doubledly creatcr. 
ED REARDON reports in from Kansas City. Mo., whera he Is operating with one of the leading insurance agencies. After recounting his war years in lbs 3rd Infantrj-, E.T.O.. Reardon immediately reports that he "married a red-head and has three red-headed ditldren—tivo bo>-5 and a girl." 
Further, deponent sayeth not. 

193 8 Charles M. Callahan 
• ' ** Sports Publicity Dept. Notre Dame, Indiana 

JOHN F. PLOUFF, *vho has been with the Milwaukee diWsion of the Sinclair Refining Com­

46 Notre Dame Alumnus^ July-August, 1955 
pany, was named head of the Green Bay division, including the upper Peninsula, with headquarters at Green Bay. The announcement was made by 
R. E. Kampmeier, AVisconsIn area manager for Sinclair. Before joining Sinclair, PIoufT was assistant to the \*ice-president, business afTairs, at the University of Notre Dame. 
From OTTO SCHERER, 416 Shannon Court, Englcwood, X. J. 
"Sec CLARK REYNOLDS and CHARLIE BEAS­LEY from time to time. Both arc progressing in the business world. 
"As for the Sclicrer family .. . we have two girls and a boy." 
Otto states that he and his wife have been making the Penn game, in Philadelphia, the past fc%v years, and that they are looking for^vard to a resumption of the Army series. 
WEST VIRGINIA—Hugh Lodcr, '29 (second from outgoing President Dr. Eugene Ryan, '41 man, '34 (right) while 
1Q9 Q William OToolc 
• ' ^ ' 176 Hillside Avenue Rochester, Nexv York 
The 1939 Rescarcli Dept., a non-proht organ^ zation, cal's our attention to the interesting fact that the 1955 men of Brcnnan will bandy ^-ardage this fall against 10 opponents, two each beginning with the letters S, I, M, P, and N. 
^Ve were ^vell on the way to making a word rh>*ming with "dimple" of that, but Na^y and North Carolina ran us out of bounds. . . . We hope this is not a precursor of things to come. 
Wc have been promising—JOE RYAN \vtll prob­ably say we have been hedging—for scx'eral past issues to publish some of the interesting data con­tained in the recent questionnaires. There was so much spot news, so to speak, to be covered first that the rest had to wait. 
Now wc note that in the absence of correspond­ence for several months—and we hope this does not start a trend—the decks are at last cleared and that We can begin to catalog cver^'one in alplia-A'ial bctical order. Please bear in mind that some olf this^^ matter is months old and that important changes ^' may have since taken place. If so. corrections *^ will be gratefully received and addenda printed in the next issue. 
So. here we go. with a top guv leading ofT: 
JOSEPH EDWARD (BEEF) BEINOR. super­market manager, Kankakee, III., four cliildrcn, two of each, including twin girls, Patricia and PrisciUa. Joe would like to hear from PHIL MALONEY, JACK GILMORE, ED HUGHES, CHUCK NAGEL, "and the remaining 500." Nothing undemocratic here! 
B. F. (RING) BINKOWSKI, sausage manu­facturer, Nonvalk, Conn., four children, two of each, with a man on third who has probably since scored. Congratulations, Bing and Mrs. BIng. He'd like to hear from HUGH BURNS and ED SLMON­ICH. A 
FR/\NK X. (FRANK) BRADLEY, JR., militar>-X\ sales engineer, Wethersfteld, Conn., four boys and 'i a girl. i 
ROBERT H. (BOB) BREEN, president. Citizens | Loan Corp., Winnetka, III., three boys. Would like to get in touch »vith Pete Flucge. 
RICHARD J. (DICK) BROWN, president, Cul­ligan Soft Water Service. Marietta, O., four chil­dren, two of each, would like to hear from TOM RE.\RDON, BILL WHELEHrVN, JI.M TORMEY, HARRY KAISER, JOE SULLIVAN, FRED SISK, CHARLIE NORTON, and E.VRL BROWN. 
CHARLES C. (CHARLIE) BUDDEKE, in­surance agent, Chicago, four girls and a boy, would like to hear from HEINIE RORDA, GEORGE SIVORE. DAN RYAN, DICK ANTON, and JOHN WHEELER. 
.•^' 

from right) receives Man of the Year award 
(left) and incoming President Vincent Reish-Alrs. Lodcr obser\'cs. 
DR. WILLIA.\f P. (BILL) CALLAHAN, JR., phvsician, Wichila, Kan., W ) „boy5 and a girl, would like to hear from TOM BOSSERT and ED F VRRELL 
'cftVRLES V. (CHUCK) &\RROLL, chemical engineer, Sunbur>-, Pa., three girls. WILLIAM E. (BILL) CURROLL, partner m law firm, Detroit, boy and a girl. JOHN B. (JOHNNY) CELLA, II, «cc-president, Cella Vineyards, Fresno, Calif., w™ boys and a girl. 
JAMES N. (JIM) CHRISTIANSON, professional fund raiser, Detroit, would like to hear from VINCE LITTLE last reported with A. B. Uiclc 
'^°DR'^^^IICHAEL P. (MIKE) CLOUSE, clinic superintendent, four children, two of each, with a fifth due la« Januarv-. Tell us all about it. Mike . . . He'd like to hear from Rusty Riley and Rav Tillc '­
JOHN T. (JOHNNY) COLLINS, scriicc station \ operator, ^ffasouIa. Mont., one boy. 
EMMETT H. CROWE (wc never did get a nickname for this popular guy), manager, insurance agency, four children, two of each. """W '•«^'" hear from BILL HAMBLEY, PAUL .MORRISON, HUGH BURNS, ED SIMONICH, JOHNNY Mc MAHON, and SWEENEY TUCK. 
L. J. (LOUIE) DEMER, research fellow and Ph."D.'candidate. just married, give him •> .^hjnw. would like to hear from PR'^^^^^^'^^.^'i"-'­BOB DIECKEL.\fAN, and CHARLIE HA\ES. 
WILLIA.M A. (BILL) DONNELLY, director of publicity and student publications, St. Cloud (Minn.) State Teachers College, fo-r ^°>» ="'' three girls, would like to hear from /«sDY WIL­SON FRED DIGBY, FRANK CUNNINGHAM, CHARLIE NELSON, JOHN BRODERICK, GREG EDWARD T. AfcNAX-LY, '36 RICE, and "others." . . . That Beinor complex 
EDWARD J. CROTTY, '37 

"^'R . WALTER E. (W,\LT) DRURY, surgeon, 
The new president of the McNally 

Willard. O., three girls and a boy. DONALD K. (DON) DUFFEL, du Pont design Pittsburg Mfg. Co. of Pittsbutg, Kan­
f> Up around Danbuiy, Conn., Coach 
planning super%-isor, Wilmington, Del., three girls 
sas, a company which is predominantly 
Edward T. Grotty, '37, is known as the and a boy, would like to hear from everybody. 
. . . Started something. Joe. engaged in the engineering, manufac­'miracle man'. His undefeated high 
JOHN J. (JACK) DUNPHY, vice-president. In­

ture and constniction of coal prepara-. 
school football team received nation­corporated Investors, Wellesley Hills, Mass., two bo«, would like to hear from "anyone m the tion plants in this country and abroad, 
al recognition last winter with a four-
dais." .. . No more comments, Djaughe. 

is Edward T. McNally, '36. He has 
page spread in "Sports Illustrated". Wc shall have more beard combings in the next issue, picking up with the E's. ileanwhile, enjoyed a varied and interestmg career His grid teams have sufTered only three for those who have gone before us, may Our Ladv 
since graduation from Notre Dame, 
on the Dome take care of them. 
losses in the past five seasons; his in­

Announcement has just been made that fAUL and last fall was spent in negotiatmg itiative succeeded in getting a new sta­E. KELL has been appointed AVisconsin represen­
a contract for a new plant to be con­
tative of the Hindc and Dauch Paper Company. He 
dium; he raised $5,000 to buy new 

will be in charge of the Milwaukee office. stnicted in Turkey. unifoi-ms for the band; he directed the VINCE.Vr DeCOURSEY, president of the DcCoursev Creamery Company. Kansas City, Kan­After receiving the degree of Ph. B. 
paying ofT of a $37,000 debt acquired 
sas was recently honored by Pope Pius XII who 

in business administration at Notre 
4>y the school. created him a Knight of the: Order of St. Gregory the Great, one of the highest honors which can Dame, Ed studied a year in the De­But even more important he has be bestowed upon Catholic laymen. Wncc is a 
partment of Business Administration at 
member of the City Recreation Commission, a
done a tremendous job with the youth 

director and former vice-president of the Chamber the Univereity of London. Dunng of that community as Recreation Di­of Commerce and was vice-chairman of a recent 
Worid \Var II, he was a supply officer 
multi-million dollar drive for four pris-ate hospitals 
rector. Before going to Danbury, Ed 

in Kansas City. in the Navy for two years, serving m had been a member of the staffs at 
Peari Harbor and Okinawa. 
Richard Burke 

Providence College and Brown Univer­1940 
146 PaNson Drive Ed is married to the former M:ss sity for nine years. South Bend, Indiana 
Edythe Williams, a Mundelein College His successful ideas have promoted John W. Patterson, Jr. 
alumna, and they have sk children: a Teenage club, touch football leagues, 1941 Pittsburgh Press 
Eileen, 13; Peggy, H; Thomas 3; 
Roto Section 
city playground system for the summer, 

Pittsburgh 22, Pa. Timothy, 3; Michael, (going on) 2; and baseball and basketball at the 7th 
MILT PIEPUL has recently joined the Brown and Anne (going on) 2. The last four University football staff as backfield coach Milt 
J ''^a'nd 8th grade level. were adopted in Ireland, and its gomg 
formerly sersxd eleven years at Dartmouth in a

Ed and his wife are parents of two to be a lucky day for a fellow named 
'"n'ROTHET'THEODORE, C.S.C., is a member 

future Notre Dame huskies named Ed Terry Brennan when Tom, and Mike 
of the faculty at Boysville, Michigan. He recently and Billy. In Danbur>' his nickname completed nearly tuo decades of missionary work "suit up". in India and Pakistan. 
is Copper and the local paper in his 

I .M,\XWELL HILL has been made assistant community editorialized thusly in a superintendent of the Carbide and Carbon Chemi­Goodvear in 1W6. is married and has three chil­recent edition: ". . . Danbuiy is proud 
cals Company, South Charleston, W. Va. dre^' His wrrent address is 216 Casterton Avenue, 
of Mr. Crotty .. . he not only builds 1 OAt William E. Scanlan ''VAUL°'•^?: KELLEY, JR., has opened the I ' *»^ 400 East 111 th Street Kdfey Real Estatc^office at 4430 East Genesee 
winning teams, he builds tnie sports­
Chicago 28, Illinois 

manship, a love of clean living, a reali­^'WILLIAM'J- MJGES h^ been ^^'J-^^ 
V I DUNL.\\'Y, who was formerly on the 
leader in the engineering department °f ^b^ 'zation that the game is more than mere sate stair of the Vinylfilm Department, has been and Carbon Chemicals Company, South Charleston, 

ij^yinning, that character and morality promoted to manager of Goodyear Tire and Rubber W. Virginia. cXi.y' » Vinylfilm Sate Department. He joined 
'' are all important. . ...". }!otxc name AUmnus, July-Auguil, I9S5 47 
ST. LOUIS—Terry Brennan, featured speaker on UND Night, receives "key to city' from Mayor Raymond Tucker, while Cluh President Don Doheny looks on. 
194 2 lohn L. Wiggins I FT J g2o jf^ Sweetzcr Avenue 
W. Hollywood 46, Calif. 
After llie deadline for the last issue of "THE ALUMXUS" I received three more replies to my Christmas letter. These replies will probably be published about 7 or 8 months after the original letter was received, but publish them we shall because we are happy to hear from our fellow classmates. 
The first one comes from JOE JACOB, 42 Pythian Ave., Torrington, Conn.: TTiis may be a little late to be atiswering a Christmas card, but better late than never. f spent a vcr>' enjoyable weekend back in October driving with my wife down to Fort Afonroc, Va., to witness BILL McGOWVVN'S wedding. Bill hasn't changed a bit. One of the local highlights this winter was w^ien I, as program chairman of the In­dustrial ^fanagemcnt Club, an- organization of industrial supcr^'isors, arranged for TERRY BREN­NAN to speak at our "Sport-Night." He made a lot of new friends for Notre Dame while he ^vas here. Quite a lew alumni from tlic area showed up. Received Christmas cards from all over this year. Heard from GEORGE COPPIN in Seattle, BILL UNGASHICK in Kansas Cit>\ BOB NUDDEN in Cleveland, and BILL WALD­NER right here In Hartford, Conn." 
Thanks for tlie letter, Joe. 'Write again soon. 
JERRY FEENEY who did such a fine job host­ing tlic Class for the 10 year reunion a couple of summers back. JERRY wTitcs: 
"Thank you for your Christmas greetings and your request for inlormation fur tlie class column for the men of '43, which has been on my desk for quite some time. A classmate of mine, GEORGE S. STRATIGOS, and I have been prac­ticing law together now since 1947 as a partner­ship. We consider ourseK*es extremely fortunate in being able to have weathered the storm that confronts all young lawyers at the early stages of the law practice. George now has three children and I am expecting my third some time next week. 

"Last September, BOB SULLIVAN, who was the Executive Secretary- of the Notre Dame I-aw As­sociation, resigned and assumed the role of assist­ant dean of the Montana State University Law School, and I was elected to fill his post of the Executive Secretary. I find this position a ver>­interesting one, because it keeps you in contact with all Notre Dame lawyers throughout the United States. I am sure that you know what I mean in hearing from the iellows in your capacity as a class officer." 
TERRE HAUTE—This is a^ ncwly-oriranized club and celebrated UND Night on April 18. 
The final letter comes from JACK BENNETTj' 

M.D. (2238 Vallcjo St., Son Francisco, Calif.):; "Certainly enjoyed your *43 column in the Alumii? news. Saw JACK TALLETT and DON MILL^ in the group that assembled at the S. F. Intqn national Airport just before Christmas to bid fare^j well to FATHER LAWRENCE BROUGHAl| C.S.C., who was returning to ND after montlu as Chaplain to the Medical Mission Sisters ait Mountain View, Calif. Father Broughal cele­brated his Golden Jubilee at ND shortly after hi« return, on Dec. 21. This Is my second year as Instructor in Radiologx- at the University of Cali^ fomia Medical School here in San Francu:cor 
"Sorr>- to hear of the death of PASTOR VILLA | FLOR, the old Filipino, who made vestments in his room beneath the chapel in Corby Hall. |f; 
"If you have a chance to come to San Fran-: Cisco, give us enough notice to plan a small-scale: reunion. Jack." C;-
Litlle did Jack realize that shortly after he. wrote the letter that I would be taking him up­on his invitation. Early in April I was in SuT^ Francisco nn a business trip and called on Jaf\ for that small-scale reunion. Jack and I had' dinner uiih JACK TALLETT and DON MILLER who are San Francisco Bay area residents. After comparing "bay areas" wc concluded that Bennett was the only member present with the figure he possessed in '43. Jack Tallett is practicing law, as Joe Friday \%-ouId say, "in and for the State of. California," while Don Miller, another lawyer, is" practicing in Burlingame, California, in partner--' ship with another Notre Damcr, BOB TARVERIV Tlie three of us hope to have another reunion' during the football season at the So. Cal. game^: here in Los Angeles. All members of the CIa.tsT of *43 cordially invited to join! '^: 
After you have read the following exchange,'^ of letters I am sure that you will act accordingly.-. AND immediately! \ 
"To: Donald T. Heltzel. Nj Treasurer Class of 1943 
"Dear Don, > 
"When you accepted your appointment a5 Class j Treasurer back in 1953 I'll bet you figured you , had a soft touch, and would rest on your laurels I until election year in 1958. You guessed wrong, ; Don, because your work ts just beginning. { 
"Last December when I arranged a mailing of | Christmas letters to class members I discovered ­that wc had no funds on deposit. This didn't ; concern me so much as the revelation that the f Class of 1943 doesn't have a Mass stipend fund, i Wc should have such a fund a\'ailable for stipends \ so that wc can arrange for Masses for deceased f classmates, or members of Class families. Wc could also us: some of the Class fund for occasional supplementary mailings to class memberjiw 
"So, why don't you get a little campaign going 

through the means of this column?" Sincerely, Jack ^Vigg^ns. 
Dear Jack: 
"That's an excellent suggestion—-the Class of *43 certainly does need a fund to meet the various demands tliat will arise from time to time. 
"It has been suggested that each member of the 

 OflScers are: Raymond J. Kearns, president; I 
Peter Varda, i-ice-prcsident; Richard W. Kelly, secretary; Charles W. Metzger, treasurer; and Rev. Thomas J. Culhane, chaplain. } 
timi 
48 Notre Dame AlumnttSf July-August, 1955 
FRANK L. KEEGAN, '51 

;'. Beginning this summer and continu­ing for tiie next two years, Frank L. Keegan, '51, will work on a new cur­riculum-study experiment in education at St. Maiy's College, Moraga, Calif. If it succeeds there it may replace the present system of studying such sub­jects as political science and philoso­phy with a new method of studying great classics. It is being subsidized by a grant from the Rosenberg Founda­tion in San Francisco. > During World War II, Frank served as a member of the Merchant Marine in the Pacific area. He received the Ph. B. degree from Santa Clara Uni­versity in 1949, and the M. A. degree from Notre Dame in '51. He was also an instructor here and taught courses in psychology and ethics. 
After leaving Notre Dame, he worked as a Research Fellow at tlie Institute for Philosophical Research in San Francisco under Dr. Mortimer J. 
<Adler. At present, Frank is also a member of the faculty at the City Col­lege of San Francisco, and he has been admitted for Ph. D. candidacy in phil­osophy at Notre Dame. He is married, the father of four children and lives at 117 Jeflei-son Dr., Mill Valley, Calif. 
Class clip a buck to his busint:ss card and mail it to me at my residence address: 4100 E. Market Slrccl, Warren, Ohio. 
"If each member of the Class of '43 will—RIGHT ^ XOW—take out a buck, attach it to his business if^rd or some other identification, and slip it into '' an envelope for mailing to me, I am sure that 
the response will more than cover the needs you outline. ''After the returns have come in, I will send the monc>- on to Notre Dame for deposit." 
Sincerely, 
Don Hellzel. 

1 QAA Geori^e Bariscillo 
• '^ ^ 515 Fifth Avenue Bradley Beach, N. J. 
Tlianks to our faithful class "Prexy," JACK THORNTON, and the ever-dependable BILL TAL­BOT we've been able to gather some news and information about *44ers to pass along via the column. And once again it points up the perennial wail of your class secretary: If you don't .supply me with your latest doings and goings-on, I am at a loss to fill OUR sp*ace in the ALUMNUS. The column you're now reading is for many the only contact with former classmates many *44en have. Its lifcblood arc >'our letters and postcards. Won't you take a minute or t^vo right now, or tonight, or tomorrow for sure, and send me a few lines for our next column? As the Filipinos used to say, "It's up to you, Joe!" 
THORNTON reports that condolences are due JACK SEGERSON, JIM PL.ATT, and JIM AVHA­LEN on the recent loss of their fathers. SEGER­SON and NORV TRIMBORN are keeping pace, each ha\-ing sired their fourth—four boys for TRIMBORN. There have undoubtedly been other recent fathers, and if you'll just let me hear about it I'll be glad to pass along the news. 
The Chicago area '44er5 have met several times in the past year. Active participants in this wimng and dining fun group include: JIM ANTON, JACK COAKER, JOE FARMER, JACK SEGER­SON, JIM PLATT, GEORGE ST. GEORGE, HERB CLARK, JACK McINERNEY, BILL DUNNE, DICK NICKSON, JIM K.VNE, JIM LLOYD, NORV TRIMBORN, and HARRY LAV­ERY. THORNTON, who manages to get around, has rcccntiv run across such old class stalwarts as EDDIE DUNIGAN, JIM HURLEY, MIKE KINNARE, JIM McDONOUGH, GENE PILAW­SKI, and HARRY YEATES. Glad to hear tlicy're all alive and kicking. 
Ne\%-s has it that . . . JIM PLATT was re­cently appointed an Assistant Slate's Attorney in Cook County . . . HARRY LAVERY is repre­senting his district from Chicago in the House of Representatives in Springfield . . . JIM GUN* NINGHAM, an executive secretary of the Inde­pendent Voters o( Illinois, was In the news quite a bit during recent elections. All hail our politicos! 
We pr^iously reported the opening of FRANK VIGNOLA's new furniture store; THORNTON points out that we omitted to menttoo that it's housed in a brand new building in River Forest, 
III. It's rumored that STRATTE COORLAS is about to expand his ever-growing restaurant chain. 
JIM ATH'ON is manager of the Palmer House (hotel) Pharmacy and promises to pop for an in-' comparable double-chocolate to anyone droppins in to see him. 
JACK \VITOUS, FRANK ROMANO and JBf RICE are now law associates in the Windy City. 
Moving East^vaTd to New York we learn via BILL TALBOT that he spotted the following among the faithful attending the Universal Notre Dame dinner in N.Y.: JOE G.\LLAGHER, ED MONAGHAN, BOB and DAN CASEY. JACK SULLIVAN, BILL O'CONNOR, BILL ROGERS. ANDY BARBIERE, AL ZOILO, CHUCK KOEG­LER, and President of the Notre Dame Club of New York, our own JOHN DUFFY. 
TALBOT informs us that: "DUFFY pulled the coup that will rank with the best in the annals of the club. He arranged for the establishment of permanent Club headquarters in a building at 31 
E. 39th St., NYC, to be run conjunctively with the national headquarters of the Zeta Psi frater­nity. Any *44ers in town can call John at WA 5-1693 about information for lunch or drinks at the clufa with other ND men." (Suggest you jot down the address and phone for reference should your future travels bring you to the Met­ropolitan area.) 
DUFFY passes along word that he has heard from PAUL McCABE, now District Attorney of Elmira County, New York; and JOHN MURPHY. new personnel manager of Charles Pfizer*5 Terre Haute plant. 
And that, old pals, winds up news from this listening post. Won't you write that letter to me now? Sure ^%'ould help. Thanks, and good luck. 
194 S AI Lesmez I WW9 ,22 Tullamore Rd. Garden City, N. J. 
I am writing this column just two weeks before packing off to our ten-year reunion, so that any 
DENVER—Father Frederick Mann receives the club's Man of the Year award on UND Night from Dr. Dan Monaghan. 
tVolrc Vamt Alumnus, July-August, 1955 IS 

WASHINGTON, D. C.—Outgoing president Val Deale presents gavel to new president How­ard Schellenberg. Left to right: Deale; Labor Secretary Mitchell, guest speaker; Father Hes-burgh, guest speaker; Tom Markey, UNO Night Chairman; and Schellenberg. 
news coining out of the reunion will liavc to liold until next issui.-. If ^-ou were there, tiicrc won't be much "news*' wc can tell you; if you weren't there, then we'll try to fill in for you, giWng you the poop of who made it, and what we did there. More about that in the next column. 
HERE AND THERE: Congratulations to PHIL MARTIN who has been elected to the post of Treasurer of the San Diego Alumni Club, and also to its Board of. Governors . . . congratulations to JOHN O'ROURKE who took tlie big step and took unto himself a wife, in May .. . best wishes to JACK KE^VRNEY in his new job of Associate Editor of Electrical World Magazine . . - congratulations to PAT FILLEY on his appointment and promotion to the position of Assistant Athletic Director at Cornell. . . . JOHNNY MACK writes that Gerry Freeman, whom we have listed as "address unknown," is hiding out in Long Beach, Michigan City, Indiana . . . best of luck to KEN KEHL who is now in his new Dental Ofiices at 7949 S. Western Avenue, Chicago, Illinois. . . . Ken writes that he met FRANK KELLY while on duty witli the Army Dental Corps in 1932; Frank was also in tlie Dental Corps, but is now practicing dentistry* in New York State. . . , Belated congratulations to JIM BUTLER on his marriage last November; he and the new partner arc now at 5732 Kentucky Avenue, Pittsburgh 32, Pa. . . . DICK SAYERS and his three toddlings and wife arc now at 113 E. Cedar, Webster Groves, Mo. . . . DES CURRIER writes that he is once more at home in Detroit; the address being 1743 W. Boston Blvd. . . . Best wishes to JIM ANDREWS who is beginning his pri\'ate practice in Dcrmatolog>' In Charlottesville, Virginia; his home address is "Woodland," Route 1, Scottsvillc Road, Box 1G4, Charlottesville, Va. . . . Congratulations to your secretary* (that's me), who has been appointed to the position of Pub­lications Production Super\"isor of the new .Aero­nautical Products Division of the Sperry Gyro­scope Company, where he (still me) is employed as a senior technical writer. . . . Congratulations to FRED "Godfrey" BREMER for passing both bar exams: Washington, D. C , and Mar>iand. . . . Congratulations too on his two beautiful little babies, Davcy (2) and Holly (I). 
LETTERS FROM DEPARTMENT: 
From JIM DONNELLY: "Although this isn't news of tlie recent kind, I would like to mention that I saw HARRY RYAN and TOM McCOUGHY 


50 Notre Dame Alumnus^ July-Aueust, 1955 

last Spring while on a business trip to Gary, Indiana. In answer to BILL SULLIVAN'S an­nual question—I am still single. Quite often, I meet BILL FITZHARRIS at the Holland House Tavern in Radio City for six or seven quick ones. Best regards." 
From BOB MAURER: "I'm still in the same place doing the some thing—scJIing boxes in Monroe, Michigan. I have four wonderful daugh­ters. Sec you in June." 
From JOHN H05BEIN: "Have located here near Pittsburg!) since release from the Navy last May. Rosemarie Case of Sheboygan, Wisconsin and I were married In 1933 at St. Ita's In Chicago while I took a short leave. We were blessed with a son, whom we named Peter, on October I8th. JIM BUTLER, who is with U. S. Steel out of Pitts­
burgh, has been out for dinner. He married a 
lovely girl from Milwaukee In November." 
From JOHN R. RY*\N: "Spent some time in Ncji; York last June and had a nice time visiting with JIM GALLAGHER, ANDY BURKE, and TONY EARLEY. Wc all hope to meet at the reunion." 
From RAYMOND M. .MICHOLS: "As of last December I have become associated with the Orthopedic Clinic of tlic Utica Square Medical Center, Tulsa, Oklalioma. I understand that wc have an active club In Tulsa, and hope soon to make contact with it." 
From FATHER .MARK G. McGR.\TH, C.S.C.: \ "Evidently 5000 miles is a bit too far even for a i 10-ycar reunion. But I'll put In my contribution ; by nlTcring Mass on June lOtli for all of the ' class of '43. Down here in Chile wc have only a handful—10 or 12—-alumni outside of the Holy Cross Padres and Mar>'knollers. Best always." . 1 
From FRANK J. CURRAN, M.D.: "Returned from Uncle Sam and Germany last summer. Decided to make the big break and sec tlie West for the first time. Really like San Francisco and am going to stay here long enough to get it out of my s>'5tem—whicli may be a long time. Best to you and to the class." 
From CHARLES L. LESLIE, M.D.: My new address is 4442 No. Frederick, Milwaukee 11, Wisconsin. Am practicing Radiology here. \Vould like to hear from \\\ BRYCE SMITH." 
From PETER J. McMAHON: "Married Grace Mary Foat from Waterford, Wisconsin in 1947. Our cliildrtn Include Peter, Jr. (7), Mary Catli­erinc (6), Micliael Rlcliard (4), Susan Grace (3)^ I'm active in crude oil exploration and productlo'n^ ; and real estate investments. Doing what I can in civic organizations: Board Member of tlic YMCA, headed drive for funds for Monte Cassino School for Girls, etc My hobbles are skiing and golf. Sure would like to hear from some of the boys." 
From JOHN O'ROURKE: "Saw JOHN NORMAN and had a pleasant evening's cliat witn" him. He looks very- well and appears to be fattening up. Also went out on the town with NEIL *JUMBO' KELLY, super par salesman. Bumped into RED TONER and his charming bride recently. That's all for now. Best to you and the class." 
From FATHER JOHN J. CONNELLY: "I was ordained In May 1953 for the Trenton, New Jersey diocese. If at all possible, I would like to attend 
Vincennes University freshman basketball coach Janies McQuaid presents the **McQuaid Award" to Larry Carter. F. L. "Mike" Layden (left) was principal speaker and told anec­dotes of his playing days as a Notre Dame halfback. 
DR. DANIEL L. SEXTON, '22 

The new president of the St. Louis 
Medical Society, elected at their 120th 
annual meeting, is Dr. Daniel L. Sex­
ton, '22. He has been both a teacher 
and a practising physician, and he 
entei^s this distinguished office with 
many years experience in the activities 
of organized medicine. 
Dr. Sexton received a Doctor of 
Medicine degree from St. Louis Uni-
vei-sity.in 1924. Later he entered the 
private practice of Internal Medicine 
in 1928 and was accepted on the facul­
ty of St. Louis University in the same 
year. 
He is also a past president of the 
American Therapeutic Society, and the 
Mississippi Valley Medical Society. His 
hobbies are golf, swimming and bridge. 
In 1955 Dr. Sexton was voted the 
Distinguished Ser\'ice Award by the 
Mississippi Valley Medical Society, and 
he is still a member of that organiza­
tion's Board of Directors. He has 
faculty membership in Alpha Omega 
Alpha, national honor medical frater­
nity, and membership in the Society of 
Sigma Xi, national honor scientific 
fraternity. His brother, Elmer, also a 
doctor, took his pre-medical studies at 
Notre Dame. 
our reunion. I'm sure you realize that it is ditlicuk fur me to make definite plans." 
?
Fnim DON LUNDERGAN: "We arc just getting - settled in Texas. I am with the Piiysics Department of Texas A & M College, College Station, Texas, and just a weelc ago \vc liad our fourth son—Dan. Regards to all.'* (Congratulations, Don, to you and your wife. Best of luck too. In that teaching position. Regards, Al.) 
From BILL MOORE: *'Sorr>-I could not make the dance you sent us tickets for. LOU GUINEY and his wife, DICK DIGAN and his wife, and Betty and myself missed you too, Bill, at the Xutre Dame Club of New York Spring Dance, but we understood. Best regards, Al. Incidentally, I saw RUDY ANDERSON a week ago and he h planning to drive to Detroit and meet HUGH WARD there and then on to Soutli Bend for the reunion. Also talked to JACK KEARNEY over the *phane a week or so ago, and he indicated that he would not be able to attend. Jack is now with 'Electrical Wotid' for McGraw-Hill and we have been trying to get together for lunch for some time. As I have indicated previously, I expect to attend the reunion and have already made plans to fly to Chicago on TImrsday, June 9th. Best 
regards." 
From G. (JERRY) PUTNAM: "Time's groxving short so thought I'd bettter be letting you know I intend to make the ten-year reunion in June. I believe I'm listed with the class of *44, but a quick rundown of the '45 roster shows most of the old gang claim '43 as their class, so I'd like to be included." (Welcome aboard, Jerry. By the lime this gets printed, I will have seen you around Badin Hall on campus, but this is just to say that we are pleased to have you join our group. Best always, Al) 
From HENRY J. PISANKO: "I am going to be in the vicinity of South Bend around reunion time, and therefore, wish to make rcserx-ations for the reunion, especially for all of the reunion events of the NROTC contingent of the *45 class." 
From CHARLES PATRICK GILLESPIE, C.S.C.: "In the past you have heard from the other two '45ers on our staff here at Notre Dame College, FATHERS BRIDE and TIMM. But up unUl the present you haven't heard from this particular member. Now, it's my turn, so here goes. First of all, thanks for the Christmas card and the announcement about the '55 reunion. The slow boat didn't arrive here until February. But that didn't matter. A Christmas greeting is welcome at any time of the year. Regarding the reunion, 
>*QU can be sure we would like nothing better than 
to be there in person, mj'self particularly since 
haven't seen the campus after Iea\-ing it in '45. It certainly has grown these ten years, hasn't it? Twelve thousand miles is a long distance to cover, so I'm afraid we will have to content ourselves with the account of the reunion in the ALUMNUS. Father Bride and myself have been over here for almost sLx years now, having come over soon after Ordination. Fr. Timm got his doctorate at Cath­• olic U before coming. He has been here three 
years. 
"In this time wc have seen our little college grow from 19 students to some 300 right now. But while the numbers have grown, the ph^'slcal plant has remained the same. So, at present we are crammed in past capacity. The present build­ing, which w*as previously the residence of a Hindu doctor, is a little bigger than the Old College at 
N.D. That may give you an idea of how crowded things are here. And what a contrast to the peace and quiet that reigns around the Old College on the N.D. campus. We are located In a bustling part of the old dty of Dacca. All day long, while trying to teach class, we have to contend with raucous bus horns, rickshaw cycle bells, the yells of passing hucksters. The crows are always hawing in our eart, and occasionaly even monkeys drop in ­for a visit. But all this will be changed soon, we hope, for we are building a new college. The first building is almost complete. It Is located In a new section of the city, where wc wHl have more space and a little more peace. It will also give us a chance to introduce a sports program of some kind. Up until the present, there hasn't been room for anything more than piiig pong. During these past six years we have often thought with en%y of those 1700 beautiful acres that make up the campus of our old Alma Mater. Wliile I'm on the subject of the new Notre Dame College being built here ic Dacca, I hope it wouldn't be too much ou: of place to mention that such an ambitiou3 project requires plenty of money, and right now our treasury b very low. Perhaps some of our '45ers who have come into their own in the past ten years would be interested in helping some of their old comrades in this worthy project. Any help they could give, large or small, would be greatly appreciated. At any rate, we hope we can count on their prayers for the success of Our Lady's newest college, the first Catholic college in this new country of Pakistan. 
"We had a famous Notre Darner here not long ago, FATHER PATRICK PEYTON. He came 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Circuit Judge James L. Bracken received Man of the Year award from Gerald Jones (right). Seated are Don Dewey, retiricg president, and Father James Doll, C3.C., guest speaker. 
Notrt Dami Alumnus, July-Ausmt, 1955 51 

SAN DIEGO—New officers take over on UND Night. (Left to right): Richard N. Martin, '45, treasurer; G. R. Bill, '29, president; John B. Sulli\-an, '48, vice-president; Msgr. Francis 
C. Ott, '17, chaplain; and Harry E. Monahan, Jr., '50, secretary. John J, McClaren, '29, retiring president, and Philip P. Martin, *45, complete the new board of directors. 
here in connccUon ivith his Family Kosory Crusade, which \y'as being put oa in this diocese. It was a grand success, just as it has been cvcry^vlierc in India, Ceylon and Burma where Father Pat • \isitcd. Even tliough most of the people could not understand him, his deep feiror and evident sin­cerity made a strong impression oa them. His " \isit to the Dacca diocese had si^cat signi6cance for him, since like ourselves, he \vas a seminarian . at the Bcngalesc in Washington destined for the Missions when his sickness came that diangcd his life. If Our Lady had not had other plans for him, he might be here today as one of us. ^Vhen here, he met many of his old classmates from N.D. some of whom he had not seen since ordination. It was quite a reunion in itself. 
Well, AI, I think I've gabbed on long enough. Before ending, I'd like to send on a %vord of con­gratulations to you for the fine \%'ork j'ou are doing in connection u-ith our class. It's a thankless task and I suppose, discouraging at times. But wc three '45crs here are grateful for your work. \Vc foUou- the '45 column in the ALUMNUS vcr^' aridly every issue. You have our prayers with you, even though we can't contribute much else. Possibly some day in tlie future, God willing, wc may be able to attend a reunion and meet you and the old gang. At any rate we will certainly be there in spirit on tlic N.D. campus on the lOlh, Ilth and I2lh of June this year. With fellows IJkc yourself pushing it, I know it will be a great success. 
"Goodbye for now. May Our Lord and Our Lady bless you and all the otlicr men of '45. We trust the prayers wHl be reaprocal." (Tliank you Fallicr, you know those prayers arc reciprocal. I hope tliosc reading tliis column will send you and your fellow Missionaries a little assist financially. Best always, 
.M) 
From E. H. BALL, JR.: "I feel extremely guilty fo.- not having written you sooner and in particular, for not fonx'arding \iou my class dues. It is just one of those things that I never seem to get around to doing, whicli is a poor excuse to offer you, who have MTorked so hard in keeping the class of '45 united. I w*ish to advise you that I am very definitely plan­ning to attend the class reunion at Notre Dame during June, and very mudi looking fonx-ard to seeing all of you again. Should >*ou desire me to make my reserx'ation direct to BILL KLEM at South Bend, please adxise me of this fact and I will contact him immediately. I'm witli Cliicago-Allis Mfg. Corp. Again, looking for^vard to the June reunion, I remain." 
From JACK FENA: "I was one of those mucli jockied gu>'s during tlie war, and I ended up with­out any definite class. I find from >*our roster tliat most of the fellows listed were pals of mine, and 

52 Notrt Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1955 
therefore, I 'would like to attend the class of '45 Reunion, 
"I plan to go down with JOHN RYAN from Hibbing, and if it is possible, I would like to attend. I believe that I v^-as listed with the class of '44. If it is all right, would you please enter my reser­vation and advise me accordingly,** (Wc hope you arc doing well in >-our law practice at 206 Power Building, Hibbing, Minnesota, Good luck, AI) From JOHN FLEAKA: "J"st a hw lines to let ^-ou know that I plan to be at the reunion. I hope I can see and room with HARRY RYAN„ because we both have tlie same. day and year to celebrate birthday's, 
"With enough time and patience, I might be considered a good alumnus. I am married and have a little girl bom on January 20th, 1954, name of Terry Lee Fleaka. I am employed by U. S. Steel Corp, in Youngstown at the Ohio works. I also fielp my Dad at his rcstaunmt-tavem as a manager and bartender. Just a short resume on my life to date. J * 
"Hope to see you at the reunion, may God be willing.'* 
From JI.M O'CONNOR: "There is a saying 'Better late tlian never* but I am probably past ihc *ncver' stage. I have started to write to you several times in the past, but never got far enough along to mail a letter that would make sense. I do plan on attending the reunion June 10, II, 12 as of the present time. I am sure otiiers like myself who arc too lazy or busy to write will shmv up on the campus to reap the reu'ard of your com­mittee's efforts. I for one appreciate your efforts lo hold the class of '45 together. 
"Sines I enjoy reading about the rest of tlie class so much, 1*11 pass on a bit of information which might help j-ou to fill out a column some-. time. For the last five years, I've been working. ( at the Fort Wayne Plant of the Essex ^Virc Corp., the last two years as Assistant Plant Manager. I married a Fort Wa>'ne girl and any day now I expect a boy (confidential to HANK FRAILY and his five girls) to go with the girl and boy I already have. 
"JIM KRESSf drum major during part of our stay at N.D., works here at Essex in the Adver­tising Department. During his bachelor days ED LAROCQUE lived next door to mc Other than that, I haven't had much contact with tlte class of '45, but I expect all that to be changed come June. So long AI, and keep up the good work." 
That's All the News: 
Well, men, that's all the news I have. As of the present, I have no further backlog of un-» published information. Therefore, if you have'^ not written me lately, now is a good time. Help out the class by sending in information about yourself, your family, your activity, and your position. That's the only reason for our existence —to find out about you, and to relay it to the rest of your classmates. That's all for now. S'long, AI. 
194 6 J^** Tenge, Jr. 
• '^ " 35 Hughes St., Apt. 2 
Hartford, Connecticut 

INDIANAPOLIS—Man of the Year WiUiam F. Fox, Jr., (left) receives a\vard from Club President John R. Welch. 
JACKSON— Club officers at Communion Breakfast are (left to right): John Lindbergh sccrctar>-; Edward Colbert, treasurer; and Blair AIcGowan, president; Father John Dougherty was guest speaker. 
f' 1 Q^7 Tames E. Murphy 
•^^ ' 1706 Churchill Dr. South Bend, Indiana 

JOHN P. MEEK, 229 Moody Avenue, ^rarti^. Tenn.. has recsived a fellowship for an additional six months of research on the economic development of Indonesia at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
WILLIAM J. JANX has been promoted to the position of assistant to the executive vice-president of the Hertz Rent A Car System's Hail-Auto Travel Plan operations. Bill and his wife Jo Anne and two children reside at 7239 Bennett Avenue, Chicago, III. 
19Jf i Herman A. Zitt . • ^^ ^ 635 Belmont Pk., No. Dayton, Ohio 
FR/\NK CULHANE has been appointed assistant treasurer of the Formfit Company, Chicago, III. Married and the father of three children, he lives at 3040 Western Avenue. Park Forest, III. 
LEONARD C. BOYKIN attended the Ford Merchandising School at Ford Di\*ision Headquar­ters in Dearborn, Mich. 
John P. Walker 

1949 
826 Wins: Street Klfrin, Illinois 

THOMiVS R. RIGGIO has recently passed the Bar Exam in N:w Jersey. He will appreciate ((faring from his old buddies. His address is; 
,1 Thomas R. Rijigio, Attorney, 626 Almond Street, ' Vineland. .V. J. 
IQC n Richard F. Hahn 
•^^ " 6930 North Odell Chicago 31, III 

RUSSELL E. MINCES has been appointed to the new position of supervisor of the economic analysis section of the Market Research Depart­ment of Whirlpool Corporation. He is married and has a one-vcar old daughter. Maureen. 
JAMES J. dVRBERRV has received a $1,500 Allied Chemical and Dye Corporation fellowship for his final year of work at Yale toward the Ph.D. degree in chemical engineering. 
REV. ANDREW FOLEY was ordained to the priesthood in 1954. f ft^ THO.NLVS R. NINNEMx\N was recently ordained 
•^ to the priesthood. 
1 OC | Robert J. Klintjcnbergcr 
• ^ ^ • 1823 Griswold Dr., Apt. 0-22 Fort ^Va>*ne, Indiana 
Attention: JIM HENNESSEY, JIM FRICK and I met in Indianapolis to discuss 1956 Class Reunion plans. It won't be too long before you will be receiving ne\vs of it. However, the accuracy of addresses on the class roster is bad, and so, if some of you fcllou-s won't help us, how about either your mothers or wives. Let's start now to make plans for our 5-year reunion. 
Jim Hennessey announced the arrival of Kath­leen Marie on April 13, 1955, and all's well. 
Congratulations, Jim. Also, told me that BILL KELLY is back in Louisville working in his Dad*E office supply business. BOB NUNNELLEY is still around and still baching it. DAVE SCHOEN is working in the bank. 
HARVEY O'NEILL, RR. 1, Peru, Indiana, is with Kingsbury and Co., and is superintendent of their Peru chemical fertilizing plant. 
BUDDY POWERS, who is Avith the Notre Dame Foundation, writes that BILL CAREY joined the 
N.D. Foundation staff as the representative in Chicago. Good luck. Bill. ^Ve'd appreciate a letter bringing us up-to-date on yourself and Helen. He further writes he saw LEO BREN'NAN who is now out of the service and working in Detroit. \Vhat are you doing there, Leo? BILL ANHUT, Buddy writes, now has a third child. JACK LANDRY takes ovtr this spring as freshman football coach. 
BOB NICKODEM, 1503 No. Sixth St., She­boygan, Wisconsin, ^vTote that he is out of the service and has been with the Security National Bank in Sheboygan in training to be a trust officer since April, 1954. Also, that he and Xfar­garet had a baby boy in May of last year. On top of all that, he and Margaret had a t^vo­month vacation in Scotland (Margaret's home) last fall, and had a wonderful time, baby and all. Bob also writes that "DON DANIELS stops in to see him once in a while. He's living jn Mihvaukee and is a salesman for Morton Salt Co. AL B.\ILEY will receive his master's degree in history from Fordham this summer, and plans to teach in New-Jersey next fall. JACK McKELVEY is with the Pnidenttal Insurance Company in Newark and JIM BOYLE has a good job with a finance company in Chicago. BOB BERRY is a lawyer in Omaha, Nebraska. The last time I heard from ED BURKE he was an infantry lieutenant stationed at Fort Riley, Kansas. *PETE* CASSIDY, married lost October, is now making his home in St. Louis." Bob also asked the whereabouts of BILL CAREY, ART SMUCK, JOE HARRISON and BOB 
WlhDEMAS, 
BOB EDMONDSON and Mbs Mary C. DHlon will be married at the Churdi of St. Vincent Ferrer in New York City. Congratulations, Easy. Best wishes, Mary. 
On June 11. DONALD HENRY KREBS u-Ul be ordained to the Holy Priesthood by the Most Rev. Francis A. Schenk, J.C.D., Bishop of Crookston, in the Church of St. Phillip, Bemidji, Minn. On June 12, Father Krebs will say his First Solemn Mass also in St. Phillip's. (His address: 601 Lake 
FORT SMITH—Dean James E. McCarthy, guest speaker on UND Night, presents Man of the Year citation to Raymond Marre (center). John Murphy (left) is club president 
Notre J?ame Alumnus, July-August, 1955 

CHICAGO—^UND Night participants included (left to right): John O'Shaughncssy, retiring president; Admiral Daniel Gallery, principal spcalier; and Joe AfcCahc, incoming president. 
nivd., Brmidji, Minn.) Our sincere congratula­tions Father Don, and God's Blessings always. 
On June 4, JOHN FRANCIS O'BRIEN ^vill be ordained to tli2 Holy Priesthood by the Most Rev. Stanislaus V. Bona, D.D., Bishop of Green Bay, in St. Francis Xavicr Cathedral, Green Bay, Wis. On June 5 Father O'Brien will say his First Solemn High Ma*s at nine o'clock in the Churcli of St. Patrick, Green Bay, Wis. (His address: 153 Francis Ave., Green Bay, Wis.) Father John, we all send our sincerest congratulations and a full share of God's great goodness in your holy life. 
TOM COSTELLO will be married to Miss Emily Ann Boskr on June 11 in St. Judc's Church in Ft. Wavnc, Indiana. Congratulations, Tom. 
DONALD A. KREBS and JOHN F. O'BRIEN were recentlv ordained to the priesthood. 
R.4NDALL E. McNALLY, JOHN A. LYNCH, ROBERT L. O'CONNELL, JOSEPH J. LAUBER, and EDMOND ^V. FITZGERALD, JR., received doctor of medicine degrees from St. Louis Univer­sity on June 7. Randall will intern at Chicago's Presbyterian Hospital, John L>'nch \rill intern at St. Elizabeth Hospital, Daj-ton, Ohio, Joe will intern at City Hospital, St. Louis, Missouri, Ed Fitzgerald will intern at Mt. Carmel Mcrc\' Hospi­tal, Detroit, ^ficli., and Bob O'ConncII will intern at Philadelphia General Hospital. 
1 9 CO Harry L. Buch 
• '^ ^ 986 National Road \\'hceling, West Virginia 
Ver\' little news at this writing but will relate what little I have. 
DICK VIOLA was married in the Log Chapel on May 7. His bride u-as from New York. Dick still has a year or so in the Coast Guard and, at present, his address Is 120-50 62nd Drive, Forest Hills. N. Y. 
BILL MARTIN, HANK McCORNfACK and PE/\CHES FOLEY were up for the Old Timers game. All claim they arc working hard for a Ii\-ing. 
BOB and Solly HOKE had their third daugh­ter, Linda Diane, May 10. At present, their add­ress Is 307 Beyers Court, New Castle, Indiana. 
DICK COTTER was around campus the other day. He received his wings a couple of months ago and was on his way to Delaware. He's fl>'ing jets. 
Well, that just about docs it at this writing. Will be looking for^vard to your letters with that much-needed news for the next issue. 
WILLIAM CHERVENAK, a senior at the George Washington University College of Medicine, was recently chosen to membership In the Kanc-KIng Society, a medical bonorar>' whojc members arc selected for outstanding work In the field of obstetrics and g\-necology during their first three years in medical school. 


54-Notre Dame Altunnus, July-Auguslt 1955 

D. J. McGONIGLE received his doctor of medicine degree from St. Louis University on June 7. He will Intern at St. Vincent Hospital in New York Citv. 
Tlie new address of JEAN A. BUTZ is 1139 Jamaica Road, Lancaster, Pa. Jean was married on Febniary 5, 1955. 
JAMES L. FREIMUTH was graduated from the American Institute lor Foreign Trade at TJmnder­bird Field, Phoenix, Arizona, on May 27. He has taken the school's Intensive training course in preparation for a career In American business or government abroad. 
Pvt. FRANK \\\ QUINN recently arrived in Alaska and is now a member of Headquarters, 
U. S. Army, Alaska. His uife, Judith, resides at 21 So. New Street, West Chester, Pa. 
WILSON RfVBB/VN received his doctor of medi­cine degree from St. Louis University on June 7. He %vill Intern at Ohio Stale University Hospital. 
IOC 3 Eugene D. Fanning '*'*' Fanning Chevrolet, Inc. 415 West Slate Street Geneva, Illinois 
DONALD MULVIHILL is editor-in-chief of the" Fordham Law Review, Don is a second year student at Fordhani's Law School. 
IQC ^ Ens. George A. Pflaum 
•T;» t U.S.S. Giinston Hall (LSD-5) c/o Fleet Post Office San Francisco, California 
Back at this rickety navy t>-pewritcr all ready for another deadline when It seems like only last week that I rolled the last copy out of this carriage. The news seems just about as short as the time interx'al so I'm afraid that I don't have too much to pass on. PIca,<c bear with me over the next few lines and remember that if you think it too brief, you arc the one that can make the greatcstj[ strides towards lengthening It. '^ 
ENS. ED FLOCCO is scning aboard the USS DIONYSUS (AR-21), c/o F.P.O., New York. 
N. Y., as disbursing ofiiccr but expects to catch destroyer duty when his present ship goes out of commission In May. Ed tells me that MAX PLANTE has similar duty at a shore station In Alaska. BILL GWANAUGH is stationed on a destroyer out of Newport while GEORGE HUB­BARD and his wife, Mary, now call San Diego home. George is serv'Ing aboard the USS MON­TAGUE (AKA 98), c/o F.P.O.. San Francisco, Calif. I visited him and his roommate, CHRIS MALONE, one afternoon and found them foster­ing their naval careers In the sack—a rare event they claimed. JIM HERNON Is in graduate scliool at Columbia University and expects a tour with the Air Corps in the near future. SAM TIANO is stationed at Fort Bliss. 'S 
From Nav>* Supply Corps School at Athens. Ga., BILL GUILFOILE passes the word that 2nd Lt. BOB WALLACE is attached to the Air Research and Development Command. Griffiss AFB. Rome. 
N. Y. 2nd LT. DAVE GILSDORF Is In the Armv Engineers Corps at Fort Rilev. Kansas, while BRIAN JENNINGS and BILL KE.\RY have been going to Counter-intelligence School in Baltimore. JIM HARRINGTON Is working with Standard Oil Company and still finds time to continue assault­ing pole vault records. MATT MALLISOX and GEORGE BELLIS were recent graduates of Na\y OCS at Newport and have been assigned to the Hect. TOM AHERN is in OCS at Fort Benning 
JOLIET—^Edward H. King (right) was named Man of the Year. Others in photo arc Emie'^ Zalejskij George Connor, both former Irish grid stars; Jim Ka\'anaugh, recipient of the alumni club's award to local high school "most ^*aluable player"; and Robert Coyne, present ND student. 
SAN DIEGO—Brother Charles, C-S.C, principal of Notre Dame High School, Sherman Oaks, Calif., was guest speaker on UND Night. (Left to right): Msgr. Francis Ott; Brother Charles; Club President Jerry Bill, who received the Man of the Year award; Mrs. Bill; John Sullivan, vice-president; and Mrs. Sullivan. 
while BOB URBANSKI is a Sales Rcprcst-nlalive ijpr Schrotfdcr'b Furniture Company in South Bend. » 2nd LT. RAY TIERNEY can be reached at 
Force Troops, FMF Atlantic, Camp Lc Jeune, North Carolina where he is teamed up with hib brother. Rich, learning amphibious reconnaissance work. The Corps agrees with him and allows enough time for that necessar>" social mixing. Other **jar heads*' in basic scliool with him and since moved out are: PHIL BOLIN who is stationed in Korea, KEN* PATTERSON and JI.M LIBER^V­TORE arc at Lc Jeune, while JOE WEBSTER is at Camp Pendleton in California. CJVRL TRIM L and BOB HOWARD arc both with the Army at Fort Bclvoir in Virginii. 
2nd LT. BOB CHICKEY reports that he is a "ground jockey" in a Marine Air Wing at El Toro, Calif. He tells me that JOHN Lx\TTNER is stationed at Boiling AFB In Washington, D. C , 
^ DICK CULLETONE is at Fort Lee playing base­
'^all and GEORGE MORESCO is doing the same at Quantico. Chick reports seeing JIM RICH­.ARDS frequently while in Washington and says that Jim Is definitely planning on being Prime Minister to Soutli Samoa upon completion of his grad work at Georgetown. 
RICH TIERNEV parallels his brothers amphlb recon work at Lejeune where he Is In charge of the 3rd Amphibious Reconnaissance Platoon of the 2nd Reconnaissance Company. He rooms there with AL SUWALSKY who Is working with a Fleet Marine Engineering Platoon. The two of them combined to pass on the following dope: **CincIn­iiati" PAUL KELLY is a 2nd John with the Army at Fort Lewis, Washington. DICK C/\STELLINI married the former Miss Madeleine Dolle in Januar>' and left shortly thereafter for Gennany nersuant orders bv the Air Force. JIM "DUKE" 
f-bORMENT is busily treparlng himself for the law businrts at Fordham Law School. 2nd LTS. HERB A.MMERMULER and JI.M BERNHARDT entered flight training alter completing Marine Basic School at QnanMco. 2nd LT. JACK KEE­N.AN Is with the Marines at Camp Pendleton, Calif. SKIP DOYLE is on a Fulbrlght at the University of Lyon and the owner of the follow­ing impressive address: Chez Mine Niquay, 32 Cheinin de Vassieiix. Calvlre (Rhone), France. 2nd LT. TOM FIELD is working with the Ad­jutant General's Olfice at Fort Sill, Oklahoma. 
Had a pleasant visit with TOM MURPHY in Tokyo before I left Japan. Tom Is working at Army Central Command Headquarters where he enjoys his work as auditor of anny stock record property accounts. His addnrss is: Hq. Central Command 800 2nd .-\U. C-4 Section. APO 500. I San Francisco, Calif. Miirph passed the word on about quite a few of the '54's who are In that 
area. His roommate on the base is GUY M.A­CINA who is engaged there In Tokyo in simillar work. ROY JOHNS is a clerk typist with the .-\miy at Camp Otsu, Japan. JOHN McGINN Is also in that Immediate area with the Army. While having dmner that night With ^lurph we met ENS. ED McGINN who is with COMSERVRON 3 STAFF which Is operating out of Yokosuka, Japan. Ed had just finished some temporary duty as the successful coach of a ser\'Icc ball club. He claims ttiat he has been enjoying his dut)' in the Far East, but admits he'll be glad to see October come and bring hiiu some Stateside duty again. 
R.\Y "MICKEY" MOR^VN sends word that he and M.\RSH KENNEY recently completed a Message Center school at Camp Gordon, Georgia and were waiting patiently for overseas orders. Mick hopes to join JIM McCOMB who went to Germany with the Army in April. BILL MORLEY Is at Fort Bliss directing his talents along the anti-aircraft artillery line ^vhUc PAUL FORSE­MAN is an executive officer of a basic company at Fort Jackson. 
JOHN REIDY lifted his nose from his law books long enough to report that all is well at Western Re5er\'c Law School In Cleveland that GEORGE WILLIARD and .MIKE SOVNLAN re­port the same from Ohio State Law School. 
Ran into JAKE NOONAN in Pearl Harbor as ^vc crossed paths ^vhilc navigating the Pacific Jake assured me that he'd have the Formosa situation under control by mld-JuIy. 
That's it for now, let me hear from you so that others in your area might get In touch with you— recent addresses often provide the material for an unexpected Notre Dame get-together. If in San Diego, you'll find an eager participant for a few-cool ones residing aboard the na%igationaI hazard quoted in the above address. 
Those *vho recently graduated from the Infantry School's basic officer course at Fort Bennlng, Georgia, Include 2nd Lt. RICHARD F. DEL­MONTE, 2nd Lt. VINCENT R. FERNANDES, 2nd Lt. JAMES F. KETTLES, 2nd Lt. ROBERT RUST, 2nd Lt. JOHN J. REDDEN, and 2nd Lt. MICHAEL R. LAUGHLIN. 
Lt. JAMES A. BERNH.\RT, U.S.M.C., is stationed In Florida and his address is BTU I— South, Whiting Field, Milton, Florida. He is attending flight school at Pensacola. Jim would like to have all mail directed to him at his family's address, 1122 North Shore Avenue, Chi­cago, III. 
19KK Ens. Thomas F. O'Mallcy, S.C, 
• ''^ ^ U.S.N.R., Naval Supply Corps School—^Athens, Georgia 
(Ed. Note: Tom O'Malley has consented to ser\e as class secretary. He will channel news of the '55 Men to us for publication in your class column. It's not an easy job and each one should give him a helping hand regarding news of where you arc, classmates you've seen or con­tacted, what you're doing. He will appreciate your interest—so will we—and you'll want to read four times a year of the latest happenings of the 1935 Class. John Cacklcy.) 
Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., is greeted by Maj. Gen. Joseph H. Harper, com­mandant, upon his arrival at Fort Benning for the Army phase of Joint Civilian Orientation Conference. 
"^ 
^r^'-^>i%^. 

Xotre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1955 55 
The Alumni Association 
University of Notre Dame 
Fellow Alumni: June 20, 1955 
Annually the class reunions at Notre Dame occur at this time. Approximately one thousand former graduates returned in 1955. This year the classes of '05, '10, '15, '20, '25, '30, '35, '40, '45, and '50 returned to the campus. The number who returned indicates the excellent and binding influence Our Lady's School has on Her sons. The large numbers returning are a stimulus to the Congregation of Holy Cross, to all members of the facult)' and to ever)' officer of everj' club including the members of the national alumni board. The presence of such a group proves conclusively to all concerned wth the maintenance and advancement of the University that all is well bet\veen the Universit)' and the alumni. The knowledge of this relationship is most important now and in the future. 
Recently, May, 1955, the Universit)' and the Alumni Association co-sponsored a dinner for the Class of '55. This is the first time, as far as I know, that a real effort, to guide the graduating class into the alumni association, was made. The speakers were Dick Burke, the president of the Class of '55 who acted as toastmaster; Father Hesburgh, our president; Father Norton, head of student acti\'ities; Bill B)'me, the George Gobel of the campus; James Ferstel, the youngest member of the alumni board who gave the principal address; and I, as president of the Association, said a few words. It was an enthu­siastic meeting. It bodes well for the continued excellence of our Association. It is a step for\vard in our development. 
Another indication of the virilit)' of the Alumni Association was the success of Universal Notre Dame Night. It was my pleasure to attend three such occasions. Wheeling, ^V. Va.; Pittsburgh, Pa., and Johns­town, Pa. Each meeting impressed me deeply with the loyalt)' of local alumni. The meetings were large, the spirit was high, and the main speaker at each meeting was excellent. The University reports the meet­ings throughout the countr)' were equally successful. 
Finally in signing off this letter, one must be impressed and grateful to you for the generous spirit dis­played by all alumni to the request for a contribution to the Jim Armstrong Fund. The final count on the night of the presentation, of the honorarium, to the highly competent and tireless secretar)' of the Na­tional Alumni Association was $7,538. 
To date progress of the alumni association and the Foundation has been gratifying. Thank you again. 
Sincerely yours, 
LEO D . O'DONNELL, M.D., President. 
PRINTED AT AVC MARIA PRESS 






