The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
NOTRE DAME 

rfS> 

New Alumni President 
DICK ROSENTHAL 
No End to Revitalization 
•^---M^-TS-' _ • 

Compendium 
UNIVERSITY CALENDAR 

Feb. 8, Alumni Board Meet­ing, Center for Continuing Education. Feb . 13 , Communication .Arts Lecture: "Public Tele­vision" by Dr. John Meany, Librar y Auditorium and Lounge. 8 pm. Feb. 15, Cardinal O'Hara Memorial Symposium, "Con­temporary Urban Problems in .America," Library, 9:30 am-5 pm. 
Feb. 19-Fcb. 26, ^tardi Gras 
Caniiv.-U, Stcpan Center. 
Feb. 23, Mardi Gras Ball. 
March I, Midwest Confer­
ence on US Foreign Policy, 
Librar y .Auditorium and 
Lounge. 
March 3-ApriI 21, Drawings 
from Mexican Processional 
Figures, East Gallery, 
O'Sliaughnessy. 
March "3-AprJl 21, Rev. -An­
thony L. Lauck CSC, one-
man showing, East Gallery, 
OShaughnessy. 
.March 5, 12, 19, 26, Mar­
riage Institute, Fr. Merten­
sotto, Washington Hall, 8 
pm. 
March 7-9, 16th Annual ND National Invitational Debate Tournament. March 7-9, Collegiate Jazz Festival. March 8-20, Mid-semester examinations. March lO-.April 28, Good & Bad .Angels: Rosenwald Col­lection of Prints, East Gal­lery-, O'Shaughncssy. March 17-May 12, The Ernest .Anspach Collection: .African Primitive .Arts, West Gallcrv. O'Shaughncssy. .M.irch' 22, Glee Club Con­cert, Washington Hall, 8:15 pm. March 25, Munich Cham­ber Orchestra, ^Vashington Hall, 8:15 pm. March 31, Junior-Parents Weekend. April 11, Easter Vacation begins after last class. April 22, Classes resume at 
8:30 am. .April 24-AIay 6, .Advance registration for courses in the fall semester, 19G8, and for the summer session, 19G8. May 21, Last class day. May 22-May 29, Final ex­aminations. 
BOOKS 

Panos D. Bardis '53, "The Family in Changing Civili­zation," Simon and Schuster, §6.25. _ 
Otto Bird, prof, general pro­
gram of liberal studies, "The Idea of Justice," a philo­sophical and historical study of the idea of justice, Prae­gcr, §5.95. Frederick J. Crosson '56, assoc. prof, general program of liberal studies, has edited 
"Science and Contemporary Society," a volume of essays presented at a sjinposium marking 100 years of sci­ence at ND, UND Press. Josephine Massingbcrd Ford, assist, prof, of philosophy, "A Trilogy on U'isdom and Celibacy," qualifies other studies which have linked Christian celibacy with a disparagement of women and Gnosticism which prized knowledge and rejected ma­terial things^ UND Press, §7.95. 
Edward F. Gumcc '54, as­
soc. scientist. Physical Re­
search Lab. of Dow Chemi­
cal Co., Midland, Mich., 
co-author of "Organic Poly­
mers," a textbook, Prentice-
Hall Inc. 

John H. Haddox '55, head 
of the dept. of philosophy 
at the U. of Texas at El 
Paso, "Vasconcclos of Mex­
ico, Philosopher and Proph­
et." U. of Texas Press. 
^Villis D. Nutting, assoc. 
prof, emeritus of general 
program of liberal studies, 
has examined the current 
status of college and univer­
sity education in "The Free 
City," Tcmplcgate, §4.95. 
George N. Shuster '15, as­
sistant to the pres., "Cath­
olic Education in a Chang­
ing AVorld," Holt, Rinehart 
and Winston, §5.95. 
John B. ^Villman '40, "The 
Department of Housing and 
Urban Development," Prac­
ger, §5.95. 

CENTER FOR CONTINUING 
ED U CATIO N 
Feb. 10, Midwest Confer­ence of Young Republicans. Feb. 12, Law School Sym­posium: Modernization of Criminal Enforcement. Feb. 15, Seminar on Ob­scenity. Feb. 16, Human Relations Conference. Feb. 18-23, United Com­munity Funds. March 16, American Pro­duction and Inventory Con­trol Society Conference. March 26, Catholic Broad­casters Assoc, of America Conference. March 31-ApriI 3, Interna­tional Conference on En­virial Sciences. 
FACU LTy AND STAFF 
Rabbi Elliot D. Rosenstock of Temple Beth-EI in South Bend has been appointed to a resident lectureship in the ND dept. of theology, spon­sored by the Jewish Chau­tauqua Soe., an organiza­tion devoted to creating a better understanding of Jews and Judaism through educa­tion. George A. Brinklcy Jr., as­soc. prof, of government and international studies, has been awarded the George Louis Beer Prize by the American Historical As­soc, for the best work by a young scholar in European international history. Frederick W. Dow, Haycs-Healey prof, of travel man­agement, has been appoint­ed to a special advisory committee to study and recommend ways of in­creasing foreign travel to the US. 
John A. Kromkowsk!, asst dir. of the Upward Bound program at ND, will become dir. of the program June 1. He will succeed Richard J. Thompson, assist, dean of the College of Arts and Letters. James J. Carbcrrj-, prof, of chem. engineering, has been chosen recipient of the an­nual Yale Engineering Award for advancement of basic and applied science. Francis X. Bradley Jr., a member of the Indiana bar, has been elected secretary-treasurer of the Nat'l Coun­cil of U. Research .Adminis­trators. He has also been ai>­pointed to the newly created post of asst. dean for re­
AltltOliall th e 
president \vas'n t named ciation was begun in headed the organization. 
search and special projects in the UND Col. of Engi­neering. Thomas L. Shaffer, prof, of law, has received a §1,000 prize by the Emil Brown Fund of L.A for his article on "Non-Estate Planning" in the Dec. '66 issue of the ND L.AAVYER. The article dealt with wills for young family men with minor children. 
Rev. John L. McKcnzie SJ, prof, of theology, was pre­sented the Cardinal Spell-man Award of the Catholic Theological Society of America for contributions to the study of Sacred Scrip­ture. James D. Cooney '59 exec, sec. of ND .Alumni .Assoc, is the new chairman of the board of the ND Faculty Club. Other new officers are Kenneth Featherstonc, sec, and Thomas C. Grif­fing, treas. 
GRANTS 
Chemistry, Prof. G. Frank D'Alelio, §44,830 from AF Materials Lab for Curable, Tractable, Thermally Stable polymers, and §40,000 from N.AS.A for exploratory poly­mer synthesis. 

S 
.-1 
'4 
><; 
first N D Alumni Association  until some 40 years after the Assog  1868, fifty-three Alumni have since;  Each performed with foresight and;  Hanjr. 
entliusiasin. Brushing up on our historj-, we Icam that 
G. Hogan '04 of Fort Wayne, co-architect of the Unive^ sitj-'s foundation program, ser\-ed twice as Association P''^^; 
Chemistry, $78,110, Dr. Emil T. Hofnian, from NSF for summer institutes for 120 secondary school teachers. Ensjineerinc;, Harry C. Saxe, $400,000 for Project Them­is from Dcpt. of Defense. Gcolog>-, $41,110 from NSF, Rev. ^iichacl J. Murphy CSC, for summer institute for 36 secondary school teachers. 
Mathematics, Dr. Abraham Goctz, $101,540 from NSF for summer institutes for 110 secondary school teach­ers. Mechanical Englnecrinsj, Jerome L. Novotny, $48,000 for investigation of heat transfer in non-gray gases from NSF. Microbiology, Prof. Tomoa­ki .-\sano, $21,575 from NIH for intestinal transport in axenic animals. Microbiolog)', $5,000 for Prcdoctoral Fellowship for graduate student training in Lobund Lab to Dr. Morris Pollard from Marion Coun­ty Cancer Society Inc. Physics, $46,930, Dr. Rob­ert L. Anthony, from NSF for summer institute for 50 secondary school teachers. Physics, Prof. Cornelius P. 

Browne, $95,000 from the NSF for purchase of new accelerator equipment. Physics, Prof. John W. Mi­hclich, $85,000 from the AEC for a program in nu­clear spectroscopy. Physics, Charles J. MuUin and associates, $80,000 for interactions of photons and particles with nuclei from AEC. 
University, $166,100 from NSF to improve high school mathematics teaching. University, $60,000 from the US Office of Education for a seven-week National Defense Education .Act In­stitute for .-\dvanccd Train­ing in .'\merican History- for 40 high school teachers. University, 21 National De­fense Graduate Fellowships for post-doctoral study be­ginninc; in the academic year 1968-69, which pro­vide three years of full-time study leading to the PhD or equivalent degree in vir­tually all fields of instruc­tion. 
University, $267,690 from the NSF for summer insti­tutes for secondary school teachers of geology, physics, mathematics and chemistry. University, $31,620 to sup­port research by 35 top undergraduate students from NSF. Students receiving such grants engage in re­search as junior colleagues of established scientists or independently under the guidance of senior scientists. Participants arc geology. Dr. Raymond C. Gutschick; chcmistrv'. Dr. Emil T. Hof­man; physics, Dr. John AV. Mihelich; biology. Dr. Ralph E. Thorson; mechan­ical engineering. Dr. E. \\'. Jerger; civil engineering. Dr. Kenneth Lauer. University, $510,375 from NSF in support of institutes for secondary school teachers or undergraduate research programs. 
University, $10,000 from Gulf Oil Corp. as part of the company's educational assistance program. University, $3 million loan from the US Dept. of Hous­ing and Urban Development for the construction of two 11-story residence halls. 
SPORTS 
Feb. 9, Swimming, North­western at Evanston. Feb. 10, Wrestling, Cincin­nati at ND. 
Feb. 10, Basketball, ND vs. Duke at Chicago Stadium. Feb. 13, V.'restiing, W. Michigan at Kalamazoo. Feb. 13, Basketball at St. John's. Feb. 17, Swimming, Purdue at Lafavette. Feb. 16-17, Wrestling, ^V h c a t o n Tournament at Wheaton, 111. Feb. 17, Basketball, Bradley at Chicago Stadium. Feb. 22, Basketball, N\TJ at Madison Square Garden. Feb. 23, Swimming, W. Michigan at ND. Feb. 24, •Wrestling, Mar­quette at Milwaukee, Wis. March 2, Basketball, ND vs Creighton U., 2:30 pm. Homecoming. Feb. 27, Swimming, Central Michigan at ND. Feb. 27, Basketball, ND %-s Valparaiso U. Feb. 27, Wrestling, Illinois Tech at ND. March 1, \Vrestling, U. of Illinois (Chicago Circle) at ND. March 2, Swimming, North­ern 111. Invitational at Dc-Kalb. March 5, VVrestling, Whea­ton, 111. March 8-9, Wrestling, Four I Tournament at Cleveland. 

dent. -And twice there have been fathers and sons who to many, perhaps, is the fact that two presidents were non-
became presidents of the .Association: John H. Neeson Sr Catholics. Now in Februar)-, 1968, as the Association begins '03 and John H. Neeson Jr '35 as well as William E. Cotter its 100th year, the name of Ambrose F. "Bud" Dudley Sr '13 and William E. Cotter Jr '41. The presidents have '43 will be added to the plaque in the .Mumni Office. come from all walks of life: Harr)' Kelly '17, governor of Bud will be succeeded by Richard -A. Rosenthal '54 who 
Michigan; Bill Mahoney Jr '38. US ambassador to Ghana; leads the .Association into its second centurj- of service to Frank Wallace '23, sports writer and author. Surprising the Notre Dame family. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1963 FEBRUARY 
"Freedom" is the cry of our decade 

Aiutnni Ask-and it is coming to NO. But "student 
power" is not the driving force. Change 

"Student pressure for so-called student power is not a danger; it is only 
has come because a handful of students 
a symptom. It will not improve student body at ND is ready for 
ABOUT "STUDENT POWER' 
So long as ND's student body contains 
a Jay Schwartz its posture is more 
promising than Mr. Schwartz's com­
mentary contemplates. Your symposium 
on student power was valuable and 
fascinating. 
Student pressure for so-called stu­dent power is not a danger; it is only a symptom. It will not improve educa­tion; it indicates only that the student body at ND is ready for education. 
Education results from the interac­tion of students, a library and a faculty operating in a matrix of values. At ND the value matrix is stabilized as Roman Catholicism. The library exists. The only variables are faculty and students. 
The variable of the student body appears to trend towards educability. To be educable a student must be dis­satisfied, uncertain, curious and in­volved. This is a state of stress. At a university it is resolved by the catharsis either of learning or of social action. At ND the student body appears ready to take the path either of education or of minor and meaningless revolution in the temporarj' academic society. 
Students will not make this choice for themselves. The faculty will make it. 
The faculty may live in the intellec­tual jeopardy with the professional challenge of courses which acknowledge that few questions worth asking are completely answerable. Either the fac­ulty will thus meet this challenge and involve their students in true learning, or by default the faculty will allow the catharsis to occur in the channels of "student power." 
For decades ND students have been allowed to work these problems out in the fantasy of the football stadium. They are now breaking through to reality. Reality will be much the more rewarding arena of resolution, but only if the faculty can join the students in coping with reality's rigors. 
WILLIAM Q. KEENAN '43 
NYC 
Alexander Pope must have had in prophetic vision the performances on American college campuses when he wrote the following lines some 200 years ago: "A little learning is a dangerous thing, 
Drink deep or taste not in the Pierian 
spring, 
A shallow draught intoxicates the 
brain 
But drinking largely sobers it again." 
Each year to every campus of col­leges and universities come thousands of students who, for the previous 20 years, have been urged and helped to assert their rights and air their opinions 
— from running a top to running their homes. Most of those students have 

education; it indicates only that the education." 
had only a shallow draught of learning and so they stagger about the college campuses with intoxicated brains de­manding what they call rights. The only right they have is to be trained under an administration and faculty possessing thorough knowledge, long experience and wise judgment, none of which those students possess in any worthwhile degree. 
So they mass themselves together with leaders, committees, president and threats — we mustn't forget the threats, always so important in wobbly organi­zations— headed for riots if fheir rights are not duly recognized. Then we have to sit down and read erudite platitudes which they write, helped by educator friends, in an attempt to hide the fallacy and insanity of student power. Cover terms as modem sophis­tication, educational revolution, greater fulfillment are scattered all over the attempt to pacify and quell mob in­surrection. 
Have not our potential mobsters ever heard of "petition of grievances," the right of laying demands before author­ity in a. sane and sensible way? And, in doing so, they have a chance to prove their modem sophistication and educational revolution in a Christian way instead of using humbug threats. 
SR. M. DOLORS GALLAGHER SSJ '31 Concordia, Kan. 
It was somewhat painful to realize after reading "Student Power" in the November-December 1967 ALUMNUS that even at ND the student generation 
— even a vocal minority — would stoop to threaten retaliation if their minority demands are not met. That is the attitude of a "hold-up-man." 
A bit of reflection on the amount of voluntary liberalization of the rules which have been made since the years 1911-1915 — and we managed to sur­vive— would persuade anyone of good will that giant steps had been taken. In my opinion the present student gen­eration is going to have many long years in which to make over the US, and possibly the world, to suit their desire to "rvm" things. In the meantime, college is a good place to learn self-discipline and pursue the studies re­quired to train the mind to cope with earning a living. 
When one considers that the one thing which has not changed in re­corded history is human nature — its appetites, virtues, weaknesses, etc. — so what is new? History repeats and proves itself a most essential study. Also, dressing respectfully for the occa­sion has always been proper among civilized people. 
NORMAN H. RANSTEAD '15 Des Plaines, IIL have seized the initiative and chal­lenged the precedent that is ND: grant thb concession, or we will go to the press! Since discord and dissatis­faction are not a part of the image which this University seeks to project, the concessions have been made. To those outside, ND remains the same, but the inevitable is happening . . . the veils of University-enforced discipline are disintegrating as more and more responsibility is placed in the students' hands. 
The administration is winning battles, but losing the campaign. Our image-conscious University yields to changes which, in the end, will brighten the image of ND as a great Christian uni­versity. 
PATRICK DOWD '69 
Notre Dame 
Your recent articles of academic free­dom and student power bring this to mind: No matter how much we rant and rave, write and discuss the formal method a university uses, we come to Mr. O'Malley's ideas. It is the indi­vidual's thoughts (if he has any) on what he is, who he is, where he is, when he is, and WHY he is. 
ROGER HOSBEIN '50 
Winnetka, 111. 
As a graduate of ND and the father of a potential ND student, I believe it is my duty to write this letter. 
I do not approve of the changes in lules affecting the student body such as lights out, cars, etc. As far as "stu­dent power" is concerned, I believe the use of a great deal of parental pow­er is. long overdue. To some of these leaders of "student power," a little of the hand applied to the seat of the breeches is all that is needed. My reason for this is that as long as the parents are paying for the education it is their prerogative as to how the University is run. 
This use of student power is about as logical as the welfare recipients or­ganizing themselves into a union to tell taxpayers they are entitled to take more money from them without putting any effort forward on their part to cure their own troubles. 
I really thought the administration at ND had more judgment than this. Had I been an official in the adminis­tration of ND I would have polled the parents as to changes students desired. 
A. L. ANDERSEN JR '45 Ault, Colo. 
It seems the current discourse among American students concerning student power lacks the virtue of telltale sim­plicity. Perhaps it is enough for a Catholic to recall what St. Thomas Aquinas has said: "Happiness does not consist in worldly power." 
Also, three simple proverbs from the Book of Ecclesiastes might clear the air of mounting and debilitating obscurity: 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 19i8 FEBRUARY 
"The power of the earth is in the Hand of God, and in His time He shall raise up a profitable ruler over it. The pros­perity of man is in the Hand of God. -"Ml power is of short life." 
GEORGE F. LABDIK '50 Bethlehem, Pa. 
Congratulations on your Student Power 
supplement. You must find some way, 
however, of printing Frank O'Malley's 
essay in an ungarbled fashion. Would 
you consider printing it by itself as a 
pamphlet? Or perhaps you could print 
the whole supplement that way. Some­
thing, in any event, should be done and 
I'm sure that many non-ND people 
would be interested in reading O'Mal­
ley's statement. 
HUGH L. KENNEDY '51 
Biddlcford, Maine 
It will happen every time. Without fail that contemptible "typo" will crop up in the place you least need it. It happened in Prof. Frank O'Malley's article on "student power" in the first column, page 37. Lines 5-7 should have been at the bottom of the column. Our apologies to you, our readers, and to Professor O'Malley. — Editor. 
ABOUT FATHER EAVANAUGH Let's set the record straight on the re­cent Father Kavanaugh episode at ND. Contrary to your claims, the editorial which appeared on the subject in the Scholastic and was reprinted in the New York Times advertisement was not written by a student but by a priest: Rev. G. R. Bullock. A priest can hardly be a "student" judge of a fellow priest 
— especially one as controversial as James Kavanaugh. Real students gave him three standing ovations. 
Furthermore, the contents of the edi­torial clearly demonstrate that inter­faith borrowing is a two-way street. Since everyone knows that Communism borrowed the institution of heresy trials from its parent, Christianity, it should come as no surprise that contemporary Christianity is not above borrowing from its ofi'spring, Communism. 
In Russia today literary critics of the system are declared emotionally un­stable and packed off to mental institu­tions—"a favorite form of 'disciplining' independent writers," reports News­week. Father Bullock's editorial not only condemned Kavanaugh for "con­tradictions," but anal)-zed him as "con­fused," "bewildered," "frustrated" — in short, "emotionally exhausted." Un­fortunately, it seems, Kavanaugh de­fected right at ND before he could be "disciplined." 
Both major faiths now proclaim, in effect, "Let a hundred flowers bloom, let a hundred schools of thought con­tend." In Rome and Moscow (the "third Rome") revisionists urge work­ing within the sj-stem for reform. Yet for all the progress since the post-Pius, post-Stalin "thaws," both institutions have a long way to go before they achieve relevance for the People. 
HOW.^RD J. DOOLEY '66 Gaithersburg, Md. 

Wm§ Vtawa WsMtWa^i '^^^ ALUMNUS literally rolls with the mmm m «»»9 M99tmV punches. The last of a series of stories on the 1967 Alumni Survey reveals that many Alumni aren't satisfied with the way things are going at Alma Mater. As interesting as their comments are, it must be pointed out that usually only those with a gripe take the time to write. That's life. But then, once in a very great while, someone does come through — as did former Alumni Association Pres. Thomas Carney in his editorial on page 4. In the end, the scales balance and Notre Dame carries on. The students, the object of much controversy, are the subject of main stories in the University section beginning on page 6. "Bud" Dudley, leaving office as Alumni Association president, reflects on his year and the ALUMNUS introduces its readers to their new Alumni leader in a feature story beginning on page 8. 
The ALUMNUS went downtown a couple of weeks ago to meet Richard A. Rosenthal. There, comfortably seated in the expansive offices of the St. Joseph Bank president, we primed and pumped the Alumni Associa­tion's new leader about many things. Dick is a giant of a man and this impresses you foremost upon meeting him for the first time. But soon you learn that this physical characteristic also applies to his outlook on life 
— and on Notre Dame in particular. For the ALUMNUS spotlight on the 33th president of the Association^ see page 8, "No End to Revitalization." 
Editorials 
4 Rebuttal, by Tom Carney 

5 The "Lost Image" Revisited, by "Bud" Dudley 
The University 

6 The Campus Military: It's a Fact of Life 7 Load One, Fire Tviro 8 Coming Distractions 
11 The Alumni Survey: The Last of What They Said 43 Books and Their Authors 
Classes 
14 The Heart Surgeon 14 The Martyred Pilot 15 The Mayors 19 The Politician 22 A Tribute to Jack Miles 26 The Scientist 34 The Statistics 35 The Low School 
Clubs 
36 Who's Doing What 
36 From a Nucleus with Power 
1968 NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS, Uni­The Notre Dame ALUMNUS is pub­
versity of Notre Dome, all rights lished bimonthly by the University of reserved. Reproduction in whole or Notre Dame. Second-closs postage in port without written permission paid at Notre Dame, IN 46556.
is prohibited. 

January 1968 February. Vol. 46 No. 1 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 
Editorials 

Hebuttai 
In the November-December issue of the magazine, several Alumni voiced an uneasiness — if not irate concern — over University policies today. Their remarks concerned the student body, guest speakers and some of the publicity Notre Dame has received via national media. One writer, whose letter appeared in "Alumni ask," also directed his remarks to Dr. Thomas P. Carney '37, past president of the Alumni Association. Dr. Carney, who held the presidency of the Association in 1966, answered the critic, and, with his permission, we have reprinted his reply herewith. 
—Editor ALUMNDS. 
Dear Bill: 
I have delayed comment on your recent letter because, in 
all honesty, 1 wanted my irritation from your opening 
remarks to first wear off. I hoped you were exaggerating. 
Several other Alumni, however, have expressed similar 
opinions and, so now, I feel I must express my own views 
on Notre Dame today. 
You refer to the "spectacle of an oversexed priest. Father Kavanaugh, to use his appearance at ND . . ." and conclude the paragraph, "this left the mistaken impres­sion that a ND priest was involved and that ND sanctioned his sacrilegious behavior." I agree that Father Kavanaugh did try to use the University. You criticize his being allowed to appear on the Campus. But have you taken the trouble to get the reaction of the students? Did you read the Scholastic editorial? The whole incident is an excellent example of the wisdom of encouraging students to come into contact with controversial people, and to hear different views discussed. Not too many people could be in the same room \vith Father Kavanaugh and fail to be some­what rejjelled. 
But James Kavanaugh is only one of many sj)eakers who have appeared on the Campus. Between Sept. 15 and Dec. 17 of this year, there were 157 such public lec­turers. Do you remember the speakers we had when we were in school? Out of curiosity, I checked The Domes for 1936 and 1937, my last two years. Our speakers in­cluded Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen, Father James Gillis, Arnold Lunn, J. Edgar Hoover, Desmond Fitzgerald, Chris­topher Hollis, Etienne Gilson, Monsignor Ryan, • Francis Sheed, Oscar Jacobson and Shane Leslie. As I remember, they were all against communism. The only bit of con­troversy arose when Shane Leslie appeared at St. Mary's wearing knickers. The other bit of imusual activity that I remember was when Eddie Peabody appeared unan­nounced one day for a tour of the Campus. Following lunch, all those who did not have class were invited to hear him play his banjo in Washington Hall. He played for almost an hour. It was pretty exciting. 
Incidentally, I hope that our own Father John Cav­anaugh read your letter in the last issue of the ALUMNUS. I can hear him chuckling delightedly at the idea that "most people" would think that he was about to elope. 
As to the "patriotism that was once so significant to ND," I think that, by any standards you want to use, it is still there. The number of ND students entering the armed forces, the services that the University gives to oiur country in the way of training personnel, the number of ND people who volunteer for peripheral services to the country — all of these are at least as strong as they were in our day. However, I think there is a difference. I think the students today are more patriotic than we were. I think they know better what patriotism is. We thought of patriotism only as bearing arms and of defending the country in time of virar. However, the dictionary defines patriotism as "love for or devotion to one's country," and a patriot as "one who loves his country and zealously guards its welfare." The patriotism the present students are ex­hibiting goes far beyond what we know. They are in­terested in all phases of the progress of the country. I think it is wonderful that they are patriotic enough to extend their love of country beyond what we did, that they recog­nize things other than wars as threats to our country. 
Your third point had to do with the John Davidson Show from the Campus. So in the minds of many people it was a bomb. It hardly qualifies for your adjectives of "horrified" and "shameful." I am sure many people made their own judgment of the show and solved the problem very simply by turning the little knob on the front of their television sets. In my opinion, it wasn't horrifying or shame­ful. It was just nothing. 
Bill, since we overlapped for two years at ND — I graduated two years before you — I can speak with assur­ance regarding the atmosphere that existed when we were in school. If I had it in my power to do so, I would not turn time back a single year as far as ND is concerned. What would we turn it back to? Certainly, the years we spent at ND were wonderful years, exciting years. But were they exciting compared to what the students today would call exciting? We have been successful, you and I, as the world judges success. We have done wonderfully well wth the education that we received. I am eternally grateful. But we succeeded because we were competing with others living in the same age; we were competing with all others who had been exposed to the same edu­
cational system as we. Would you really like to start out today as a fresh graduate and, using your 1939 educa­tion, compete with our present ND graduates? I have referred before to the hot bed of tranquility we ex­perienced during our time. I think we should recognize it as such. 
This generation has something we never had—a desire to know the prob­lems of others, a compassion for the plights of others, a desire to do some­thing about people less fortunate than 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 

t 
themselves and, more important, they have the will and 
,: 
the ability to do something about it. I had none of these. I don't know what your class in school was thinking, but if you knew the things the present student know, you were worse off that I was, because you knew and didn't do. 
You close your letter by referring to our motto, "God, Country, Notre Dame," and then say, "Somehow or other, 'God' and 'Country' seem to have become disassociated from the motto." 
Again, I can only say that the present students know the same God that we knew, but they know Him in a different and, I think, better way. They are willing and anxious to do something about their beliefs. As I indicated above, I think they know the same country that we knew, but also they know it in a different and better way, and are doing better things for it. 
It is sad and frustrating to see the tremendous things 
i1 
that are happening at ND and not be able to transmit an appreciation for them to all of our Alumni, not to he. able to instill into each alumnus an understanding' of the progress of the school that he helped along the way. 
I am not sure we can ever understand the students that come after us, nor do I think it is completely necessary that we understand them. But this I do know. I do know it would be good if we learned to trust them. 
— THOMAS P. CARNEY '37 
The %,ost linage^Hemsited 
In 1965, shortly before I was selected to serve on the na­tional Alumni Board, I wrote an article entitled, "The Lost Image." It appeared in THE ALUMNUS just one year ago to the issue. The piece triggered much dialogue both pro and con around the country and, in particular, from our own Alumni. The majority of the old grads seem to agree -tvith the theme one hundred percent. On the other hand, the majority of younger grads and present-day students felt that my ideas were quite antiquated. 
As a member of the Alumni Board, I've had the op­portunity to return to the Campus to hear and observe what is presently going on at Notre Dame. Moreover I visited some 42 college campuses, met and discussed the modem student with college presidents, deans, profes­sors, coaches and students of every category and description. After three years, I am still somewhat confused, but under different circumstances. 
Like most of you, I am quite disturbed when I read about campus disruptions and I am fed up with the mis­use of "academic freedom." I have discovered that part of academic freedom is the freedom to recognize baloney for baloney. Sometimes a great many of us are in the position of the multitude admiring the emperor's new clothes. Because it is the accepted thing to do, they pro­fess to see gorgeous Kument where there is only a vain and pompous ugliness. 
ND has undergone many great changes during the last few years. Gone from the routine are such programs as morning checks, weekend sign-outs, hghts-out, etc. In their stead the administration has placed an increasing amount of responsibility in the students' hands. I am 
happy to reptMt that two major 
bastions of (iUscipline remain, and 
there is little likelihood of their being 
changed. Possession and use of alco­
holic beverages are still forbidden, 
and no women are allowed in stu­
dents' rooms. 

It is inconceivable to me that par­
ents for whom sending children to 
college entails some d^ree of sacrifice 
would willingly turn their children 
over to an institution which exposes 
them to an atmosphere in which off-
campus experimentation with pot, LSD, drunken brawk 
and moral laxity in general are benignly ignored as long as 
the student doesn't take too many cuts. I think that stu­
dents should have control of behaving themselves, and 
when they don't, the college certainly has a responsibility. 
ND, thank God, is still willing to accept this responsibility. 
Considerable Alumni concern has risen over the pur­ported laxity of religious practice on the Campus. The office of the University chapl ^ and, indeed, the entire ad­ministration are more than concerned about this issue. The question is frequently asked, "Is it true, students are losing their faith at ND?" The question implies a universal, which is imfair to say the least. No one doubts that some' students lose their faith while attending the University. Some students experienced the same loss in previous ND generations. Fr. Hesbui^h has stated that if a young man is going to lose his faith, ND is the best place at which to do it. The remark isn't intended as a complacent apology for the fact. It is intended to point out that ND is a place where dialogue, discussion and conversation continually take place on every issue including faith. 
Today's collegiate generation, and ND is no exception, feels it is their legacy, one which we gave them, to ques­tion, to doubt and to hold in suspense the values of their childhood as well as the values of the adult world. Stu­dents today are more independent than previous genera­tions, more sophisticated and, before their arrival at ND, better educated. They have been granted responsibilities and privileges unheard of for their age 10 years ago. I can assure you though that ND is a Catholic university and has no intention of being otherwise. 
As such, its goal is not indoctrination. Its piurpose is to provide the atmosphere, the tools and the influence of a rich Christian heritage in a modem-day setting and context for the young searching mind. 
My three years on the Alumni Board have been some­what of a revelation to me, and I have thoroughly enjoyed serving as its president Once again I would like to en­courage Alumni to communicate their thoughts and opinions. I believe that if we Alumni want to make ND the kind of place it should be, the finest then we have to tune in continually on the affairs of the University. If we want to have an influence on the future of ND, then we had better get involved personally through the local clubs, the classes, and the various other ND programs. 
In conclusion, it is my hope that we will continue to question one another, challenge one another and tolerate one another, and begin where those before us have left off so that all of us may perhaps have an inkling at least of things that aie really great. 
—AMBROSE F. "BUD" DUDLEY JR. '43, PtasiDENT 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 
'S LLADE-­
The University 

CAMPUS MILITARY IN REVIEW A certainty about summer camp, weekly drills and the future. 
IT'S A FACT OF LIFE 
T
HAT MAGIC 2-S is not so magic any­more. With the increasing draft calls, military service seems to loom unavoidably in the path of every stu­dent. Deferments are no longer guar­anteed for graduate school except in medicine and related fields. Each graduating senior must face the fact that he likely will end up in uniform. 
Some faced that realization in their freshman year and enrolled in one of the University's three ROTC pro­grams. As Col. John J. Stephens, head of the Army ROTC detachment, puts it, "The man in ROTC realizes that we do not Uve in a Utopia. He rec­ognizes he has a commitment and feels he should serve in a rank commensu­rate with his talents." 
More than 1400 — more than one in five — ND students are enrolled in either the Army, Navy or Air Force ROTC. ROTC is basically a four-year course of study involving three credit hours per semester for the last two years. Students wear the uniform of the service, take classes in military subjects and drill one to two hours a week. The first t\vo years, known as the basic course, are very similar to the last two, but the student gen­erally receives no University credit At the beginning of his junior year, he usually signs a contract making him a member of the Reserve and starts drawing $50 pier month ret^n­er pay. He also attends a four- to eight-week summer training session 
between his junior and senior years. 
Colonel Stephens sees a special re­gard for ROTC at ND. The Univer­sity's number of commissions ranks in the top 20 among the 240 schools -with Anny ROTC programs. Eighty-nine second lieutenants were given their bars at graduation last June and there will be close to 150 this year. Many of the other institutions with fewer commissions have larger general en­rollments and do not offer all three programs. At ND the Army ROTC enrollment alone tops 700. 
Army commissions wU be up this year partly because of a two-year pro­gram which allows students to earn a commission after attending two simi­mer camps and classes for only their junior and senior years. In all cases, however, the emphasis is on those who will serve their tour of duty as reserve officers, rather than on those who want to make the Army a career. 
The Air Force at ND will commis­sion between 50 and 55 officers this spring, all with at least a four-year obligation of service. But Col. Victor 
J. Ferrari, commander of the AFROTC unit, sees an increase com­ing in the number of commissions in the next several years. The Air Force detachment has more applicants than it has room for and now has more than 450 students in its program. Loyal, Disciplined Officers. Like Colo­nel Stephens, Colonel Ferrari counts the ND program high in relation to 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 

others around the country. He feels 
ND's students tend to make good of­
ficers, with a loyalty to the school and 
sense of discipline that they carry 
over into the service. Also like the 
Army course, the Air Force has a 
t\vo-year program for those who wish 
to participate and did not in their 
earlier years in college. AFROTC 
also has a substantial scholarship pro­
gram and tends to be more career-
oriented than the Army ROTC. 
Lt. Cmdr. John H. Songster, senior instructor in Naval ROTC, has no­ticed a rise in enrollment figures in the past several years. Naval and Marine commissions \vill total 50 in June, with the graduates owing a three- or four-year obligation of ser­vice. A two-year course and a large-scale scholarship program are part of the Naval ROTC organization. 
Like Stephens and Ferrari, Songster sees the ND course as having the reputation for excellence. NROTG is not primarily for those who wish to make the Navy a career, but as Commander Songster says, "We often assume that the regulars (scholarship holders) vnll do so." 
The spokesmen for all three ser­vices agree the draft is a factor in their enrollments, but no one can say just how much. Nor can Devere Plunkett, director of military affairs, offer any explanation of the draft's influence on enrollments in the vari­ous programs. 
"We just can't account for some of the fluctuations," says Plunkett, who is also associate dean of the Col­lege of Arts and Letters. He does establish, however, the administra­tion rationale behind ROTC; "It is an important opportunity for those 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1948 FEBRUARY 
who wish to earn a conmiission. It 
can contribute a great deal to the 
discipline of mind of those who wish 
to be involved." 
But ROTC is not without opposi­

tion at ND. According to Dean 
Plimkett, "I don't know that oppoa­
tion has really grown. But those who 
do dissent are at least more willing 
to demonstrate it" Pickets have ap­
peared in the past two years at the 
Annual Presidential Review of all 
ROTC detachments. Leaflets have 
been passed out to ROTC students 
on their way to classes and dissent 
has appeared in the editorial columns 
and letters pages of student publi­
cations. 
The Draft Dissenters. Most student op­
position to ROTC seems to be tied 
in with dissent on the war and the 
draft. According to senior Bill Reish­
man, chairman of the ND-SMC Stu­
dents for Peace, "ROTC is so far out­
side our way of thinking that we 
hardly consider it." 
The Students for Peace helped cir­culate a "We Won't Go" petitiem earlier this year and passed out anti-draft materials at the South Bend in­duction center. Members trained by a pacifist group in Chicago also of­fer advice on the draft to those In­terested. 
Many of those opposed to ROTC base their objections on the alleged academic deficiency of ROTC, though Dean Plunkett insists that while the ROTC courses may not be the hardest electives at the University, they are far from the easiest Dissenters feel that ROTC has a place for those who wish to take it, but that it should not be honored as academic credit. 
Despite evidences of opposition, ROTC people feel their reception at ND is far better than at most schools. Colonel Ferrari senses significant group pressures at ND against ROTC, but that by and large the Campus is receptive. Commander Songster also finds the University open to ROTC, and can't imagine at ND anjrthing like a recruiter being imprisoned in his car by student demonstrators (as hap])ened at the 
U. of Wisconsin). Both agree also that the University administration has been most cooperative. 
The man in ROTC will graduate with a commission. He may delay going on active duty for a year or two to continue his studies in graduate school safe from the draft. All three programs offer deferments for most graduate work; some students will have their postgraduate education paid for by die service. Others will enter the armed forces immediately as officers. While draft laws now 
pretty much insure an undergrad of 
a student deferment as IcHig as he is 
making normal progress toward his 
baccalaureate, the assurance of a de­
ferment for most graduate study has 
ended. 
Thus, Rev. Paul Beichner CSC, 

dean of the ND graduate school, esti­
mates that there wiU be a 25 percent 
decrease in the number of men ap­
plying for admission next year. 
At present, liberal arts, science, en­

gineering and professional students 
will be eligible for the draft This 
does not mean they will definitely be 
called, but many are unwilling to in­
vest time and money in ^aduate 
work when they may be pulled out 
of school any time. 
Jobs, Pbns Stalkd. Many are also vm.­willing to make definite career plans. There has been a decrease in the number of seniors taking interviews for jobs, according to Rev. Louis J. Thornton CSC, director of the Place­ment Bureau. "I think many seniors, convinced they will have to go to the military up<Hi graduation, don't want to take 30 minutes to see an inter­viewer about a job they won't be able to take for several years." 
For those opposed to military ser­vice in general, or to service during the war in Vietnam, there are a few alternatives. They can apply for a conscientious objector's draft status, leave the country or go to grad school and hope they will not be called. 
For others there is also the hope that the draft board wiU not get around to them in graduate school or on the job. The other alternative is enlistment, either in the ranks or as an officer candidate. Some, however, will just w^t and see. 
Load One, Fire Two 
A North Dining Hall dinner of roast beef, mashed potatoes and com Jan. 18 left hundreds of students with symptoms of mild food poisoning for two days. The University Infirmary treated more than 400 students for the results (tf what appeared to be a staphylococcus infection of the meat served that evening. Dr. Louis Howe, directOT of public health for St Jo­seph county, is expected to definitely identify the source of the infection later. 
Though no students were seriously disabled, many were unable to attend final exams. While only 400 were treated, there were estimates that 1,000 were affected by the intestinal disorder. 
Student anger and "finals tenaon" resulted in a food riot Jan. 19 which caused an estimated $2400 damage 
to the North Dining Hall. Food was thrown, tables overturned and dishes broken in the disturbance. Five stu­dents were apprehended by Campus police. 
Student government representatives, meeting with Rev. Charles McCar­ragher CSC, dean of students, and other University figures, accused the dining hall of using Nicaraguan beef. Dining Hall officials insisted Nica­rauguan beef is used only in hambur­gers and the beef served tliat night was US government inspected. Father McCarragher's office issued a state­ment Jan. 20 apologizing for the sick­ness and stating steps -would be taken to insure that it did not happen again. 
Coming Distractions 
After a post-Christmas lull, tilings ap­pear to be picking up in Campus ac­tivities for the second semester. A general assembly of the student body called by student government, the stu­dent body elections, the Mardi Gras Carnival and the Collegiate Jazz Fes­tival wll headline Campus news for the coming term, along wt h a wide range of political speakers related to the Mock Convention slated for March. 
Students will gather Feb. 7-8 to vote in a general assembly on topics related to student life, in an effort to judge student opinion on Campus is­sues. The opening session will hear an address by Sargent Shriver, head of the War on Poverty'. Feb. 20 is election day for the offices of president and vice-president of tlie student body. Mardi Gras festivities will be­^ n Feb. 21 and last until the 26th in Notre Dame's annual charity drive. 
The University will host the an­nual Collegiate Jazz Festival during the second weekend in March as jazz groups from colleges across the coun­try compete for prizes. March 20-23 Stepan Center will rock to the cries of die politicos during the Republican Mock Convention which will be ad­dressed by Ohio Congressman Robert Taft Jr and John Volpe, governor of Massachusetts. 
Speakers in February will also in­clude Mark Lane, critic of the Warren Report and author of Riish to Judg­ment; Black Nationalist Malauna Ron Karenga who will debate ND history professor James Silver on the issue of Black Power. In March Jacqueline Grennan, former nun and president of recently secularized Webster College will appear and hopefully other speakers will include presidential candidates Richard Nix­on, Eugene McCarthy and George Romney along with John Lindsay, Lewis B. Henhey and retired Marine General David Shoup. 
DICK ROSENTHAL A new president and a century-old Alumni Association. 
NO END TO REVITAUZATION 
HNE HUNDRED YEARS ago, when the ** University first got into the busi­ness of alumni affairs, Notre Dame looked to its newly organized Associa­tion to form the ties which would bind the University and its graduates together. This formal relationship was not new among colleges and for Notre Dame it merely was a logical development. It meant keeping with the times. It meant the formation of a communications system with Alumni and Alma Mater. Moreover, it re­
flected Notre Dame's interest in the world beyond the Campus. 
A century later the objectives of Notre Dame's Alumni Association have changed very little. If there is a difference between the new and the old organization, it is the fact that today's cilumni-alma mater existence has become more intense and perhaps a bit more complex. 
The ND Alumni Association has grown from an "on paper" organiza­tion that managed without a national president for 40 years to an active body that is molded and tempered for — and attuned to — the modem day. 
A sophisticated structure of Clubs, Classes, Alumni Board and a recently created Senate gives ready witness to the 'Svith it" generations Notre Dame has behind its Association. 
For the most part Jim Armstrong has been the master architect. For more than 41 years the recently re-
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 

tired executive secretary created, en­couraged, refined and oftentimes modified the gears which made Alumni programs mesh so effectively. But even before Armstrong, a loyal and foresighted Alumni body started the ball rolling. 
Beginnings. In 1908 a very small group of ND grads adopted as their goal an "Old Students Hall" to be erected on the Campus for both stu­dent and alumni housing. It was a major and imaginative project. By 1923 when the University was en­gaged in its first endowment cam­paign, it was this Old Students Hall fund that provided the completion of the requirements for a $250,000 grant from the General Education Board, and $75,000 from the Carnegie Corporation. Notre Dame's first mil­lion dollars of endowment was cre­ated exactly 80 years after the found­ing of the University. 
In subsequent years Association of­ficers and Alumni at large developed a permanent Alumni Office vnth full time secretary. Universal Notre Dame Night in 1924 was also the creation of the school's alumni. There then followed the annual alumni fund, the development of an effective and ex­tensive Club program and the Notre Dame Placement Bueau. In 1938 Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was inaugurated by the New York Club. Class Reunions, all this while, were also enjoying a healthy existence. 
More recently, there evolved within the Association a dramatic new con­cept in Alumni affairs which not only proved to be a first at Notre Dame but also something unheard of at other colleges and universities. Under the inspiration and guidance of Dr. Thomas P. Carney, the Notre Dame Alumni Senate was created. At its first meeting in May 1967 the Senate brought together the Club presidents from across the nation to broaden the channel of communications from the University to the Alumni. 
The emphasis on communications also was apparent in other ways in 1967. "Dialogue" became a most overworked byword when members of the Notre Dame family — adminis­trtion, faculty, students and alumni — began voicing their o\vn feelings on Notre Dame past, present and future. This sudden urge for dialogue was prompted in no little way by the publication of Ambrose F. "Bud" Dudley's "Lost Image" in the ALUM­NUS. The net result earned for the University a more intensely involved alumni. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 
Continuation. But the revitalization of 
Notre Dame's "old grads" society con­
tinues. In fact to its new president, 
Richard A. Rosenthal, there is no end 
to the need for self-evaluation and 
renewal. 
"Our greatest need," the former AU-American believes, "is to develop far more understanding of what's going on at Notre Dame today." 
Rosenthal maintains that most of the problem underlying Alunmi-stu­dent imderstanding today is that too many Alumni feel that their educa­tion and relationship with Notre Dame ended the day they received their diploma. Consciously or uncon­sciously, they feel that Notre Dame, in all its greatness during their re­spective years, should remain the same. This produces inevitable con­flict, he says, "because Notre Dame, just like the world, is continually in 
a. state of change." 
To some people growth is looked upon as a necessary evil. He feels that Alumni should realize the Uni­versity could never stand still. "If it didn't grow and change, this place would be a contradiction in terms." And he added, "I would be greatly concerned if Notre Dame were on a 'business as usual' or 'do nothing* basis. Obviously, we're not." 
Equally as obvious, however, is Rosenthal's concern that in certain Alumni and student circles the com­munication is not getting through. "What is all the more damaging," he observes, "is that this lack of under­standing frustrates any continuing love and interest and desire to help the University." 
As with most issues there are t\vo sides involved. Alumni-student rela­tions are no exception and the built-in two-way direction should only tend to enhance the association just that much more, believes Rosenthal. 
"This should be of great value to the students," he states, "to under­stand what ND means to people who not only have gone through its hal­lowed halls but who view the Uni­versity in the perspective of what it has meant in their lives. These Alunmi have had a chance to live it in their lives for X-nimiber of years." 
A Prime Doer. At 35, Dick Rosenthal has enjoyed some pretty busy and full years himself since his graduation in 1954. His own personal enthusiasm and optimistic outlook on life is per­haps largely respionsible for what, in additicHi, has been a successful career. 
Captain of the '53-'54 basketball team, Dick led his ball club to a 22-3 season which is still tops in Notre Dame history. He graduated with a bachelor of science degree in finance and played two years of professional basketball with the Fort Wayne Pis­tons before entering the military. In 1957 he joined the Indiana Bank and Trust Company in Fort Wayne where he became a vice-president. The paint had hardly dried on his executive's door when the St Joseph Bank and Trust Company of South Bend came looking for a new president. Two in­terviews later Rosenthal became the youngest bank president in the coun­try at the age of 29. 
Residents of South Bend know Rosenthal well from his work at the bank as well as his efforts on innu­merable civic projects. Like the slogan of his band, "You'll get more for your money at . . ." the new Alumni pres­ident gives community, charity and University projects more than for what they're asking. 
His baby, the bank, is a symbol of community leadership in South Bend. Less than a year ago, Rosenthal an­nounced plans for the construction of a new 16-story St. Joe Bank. The new structiure, to be built behind the old bank, will stretch out in one direc-
ALUMNI LEADER and COAAMUNITY BACKER The emphasis is on understanding. 
ROSENTHAL, LANGFORD, KANE, O'BRIEN and WILSON A president and his new Board members. 
tion for a full block allowing (at the bank's expense) for a public, park­like mall. The St Joe, die first bank in South Bend to go into branch oper­ations, also showed the greatest growth of all banks in St. Joseph County in 1967. 
Growth has also been a major part of Dick's family life. He and his wife Marylyn have seven children. On snowy weekends they are found skiing on the slopes of some Michigan hill­side. 

New Emphasis. A crew-cut physical giant at six foot-five, Rosendial be­lieves that great value also can be derived from greater Alumni contact with the faculty. He cites the faculty, in particular, as possibly making the greatest contribution today toward the betterment of the Association. 
"This is only logical." maintains Rosenthal, "for at this University are some of the finest minds in the world." Programs of continuing edu­cation he lists as a way of bringing faculty into Club and community af­fairs across the country. A natural spinoff would be the development of discussion groups among Notre Dame alumiu. 
Among these same alumni talking about today's Notre Dame, discussion inevitably touches at some point about religion on Campus. It's a subject about which the new president also has some thoughts, most based on firsthand experience. 
"It seems to me that religion is a rather personal sort of concept," he maintains. "If someone is trying to determine the religious fervor on Campus just from group activity in the chapel, I think he's just looking to find something wrong." He does admit though that he frequendy at­tends Simday Mass on Campus and there "you'll find the Masses just as long as in the past for everyone there goes to Communion." 
There is a difference Rosenthal admits from the spiritual oudook of today's Notre Dame students from those of yesteryear. 

"I see a lot of wonderful things come out of the student body. There's a genuine interest in being God-like people, who recognize that there is a great commandment in 'love thy neighbor.' What's more they show it by demonstrating their interest in their neighbor and doing something for him. In that r^ard," he con­cluded, "I suspect there are many if not the majority of the kids on Cam­pus today who are more rehgious than I was as a student." 
Rosenthal is not the only one as­suming office in February when the Alumni Board convenes for its win­ter meeting. Four new members of the Board, elected by an Alumni-wide vote in January, will take their seats. They are: 
• Walter M. Langford 30, Notre Dame professor of modem languages and former director of the Peace 
DEANS O'MEARA and LAWLESS With whom 'excellence' is a platform. 
Corps training center on Campus. 

•
 W. Jerome Kane '38, vice-presi­dent and general manager of Boeing International Corporation in Seatde. 


•
 Donald F. O'Brien '42 from Houston, vice-president and account supervisor of McCann-Erickson ad­vertising agency. 

•
 Francis J. "Fritz" Wilson '28 from Pittsburgh, a partner in Wilson-McGinley Distributors. 


Leaving the Board after serving three-year terms are Joseph H. Carey '43, Thomas W. Carroll '51 and Charles J. Patterson '47. Bud Dudley, the fourth member of the group which came onto the Board in 1965 and who was president of the Alumni Association last year, now becomes honorary president. 
Ghanse in the Law School 
The new dean of the ND Law School is an Alumnus, a former editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer, a former presi­dent of the 3000-member ND Law Association and a former member of the Law School's Advisory Council. Judge William B. Lawless '44L will replace Dean Joseph O'Meara July 1. 
Lawless became a Justice of the New York Supreme Court Jan. 1, 1960. In earlier years he was engaged in private practice and served as cor­poration counsel of Buffalo (1954­56), special counsel to Gov. Averell Harriman (1955-58) and as president of the Buffalo Council (1956-59). 
In announcing the appointment of Dean Lawless, Rev. Theodore M., Hesburgh CSC, University president, paid special tribute to Dean O'Meara who b retiring after serving since 1952 as head of the nation's oldest Catholic law school: 
"With great distinction. Dean O'Meara has led the ND Law School to the eve of its centennial. Its stat­ure has grown tremendously during his 16-year tenure. Insisting that 'ex­cellence is our platform and we can be content with nothing else,' he has 
relentlessly raised the school's aca­demic standards. At the same time he has brought about a much greater diversification of the student body and, with the support of the ND Law Association, provided scholarships for many of them. The faculty has been immeasurably strengthened. 
"Moreover, through the years. Dean O'Meara has thrust the ND Law School, its faculty and students into the mainstream of contemporary American life with a series of sym­posia on subjects ranging from orga­nized crime and violence in the streets to school desegregation and fair trial and free press. Most importantly, he has sparked in a whole generation of ND students the passion for justice which has been the hallmark of his own long and distinguished career as a lawyer and legal educator. Joseph O'Meara has made his mark on the ^iD Law School and the entire Uni­versity community is grateful to him." 
In addition to his law degree from ND, Judge Lawless holds an under­graduate degree in history and gov­enmient from the U. of BuiFalo and the degree of master of laws from Harvard. During 1966-67 he was pres­ident of the Harvard Law School As­sociation of Western New York. 
Judge Lawless was admitted to the New York state bar in 1946. He has served as trial counsel in state and federal courts, specializing in civil liti­gation, principally corporate and com­mercial cases. A Democrat he was delegate to the 1967 State Ck>nstitu­tional Convention, serving as secre­tary to its Judiciary Committee. He is co-author of a two-volume work. New York Pattern Jury Charges, and has contributed a number of articles to professional publications. 
A member of the American Law Institute, ND's new law dean is a former lecturer at the U. of BuiTalo Law School. He has also been a facul­ty member of the National College of State Trial Judges. He is a member of the ABA and the New York State and Erie Coimty bar associations and a director or trustee of several institu­titMis and cnrganizations in the greater Buffalo area. 
^^^^^1 
111 
^M. 
@HI^^ 
JfiWi 

ALUMNI SPEAK OUT There are some things you just can't punch on an IBM card. 
MARGINAL NOTES FROM THE ALUMNI SURVEY 
I 
T'S those little "extras" that make the most interesting reading in newspapers and the ad libs that are the biggest hits on TV. So it was with the 1967 Alumni Study. While com­plete statistical information on the sur\'ey was presented in the Septem­ber-October and November-December 1967 issues. THE ALUMNUS now con­cludes its serial report with some sur­vey comments regarding Alumni re­actions to change in the University government and areas that need more development. 
To briefly review the statistics, 84 percent of ND Alimini favor the change in University government to lay control and 54 percent of them think faculty development is the area that needs the strongest emphasis. 
Since the survey was coded by the respondent's religious status, it was possible to determine the opinion of nuns, priests and brothers toward the reorganization. Eighty-five percent of priests and brothers favored the re­organization and 82 percent of the nuns favored it. Conversely, the highest percentage of those who were not in favor — seven percent — repre­sented the lay respondents while only five percent of nuns and four percent 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 
of priests and brothers expressed an unfavorable opinion. 
Though not of great significance, it is interesting to note that a higher percentage of religious (11 percent of priests and brothers and 14 percent of nuns) expressed "no opinion" about the change. Nine percent of the lay­men checked "no opinion." 
Though the question of reorganiza­tion drew fewer penciled comments than some other questions, there were some interesting ones. A man who said he had an unfavorable attitude toward giving laymen a more active and responsible role in the adminis­tration of ND affairs wrote, "The present reorganization does not allow the ND faculty to elect the laymen they want. Hence, the CSCs will appoint their own selected 'yes-men.'" 
A New Mexico Alumnus checked "favorable" but added "if and when they do something" and a Texan who had an unfavorable opinion com­mented "look at Pittsburgh." 
Another man checked "favorable" but scribbled in "No one vnth half a brain believes there wU really be any change in the party line." And an­other checked the same column .but emphasized he was referring to "lay contrcJ not faculty or student control." 
Comments among those who checked "unfavorable" include d these: "The lifting of student restric­tions and admission of 'beats' was a drastic mistake." "It can become a {x>litical playhouse with a favored few and friends obtaining and retaining power. ND does not deserve this fate." And finally: "Who is kidding who (sic)?" 
One of those people who writes all around every edge of a sheet of paper added these comments: "I will wait to see if control of Catholic religious teaching is lost If control of magis­teriimi of Catholic teaching of Church is eliminated, ND is doomed to be the same as any other university — me­diocre— no Catholic principles to guide her. I wouldn't want any son or grandson (I have nine grandsons) to attend ND — no matter how in­tellectual its courses were—if magis­terium of Catholic Church is elim­inated. I believe in .'open mind' but also bow to magisterium of the Cath­olic Church. Intelligence alone leads to Martian men. ND means 'Our Lady' who was mother of God's Christ -:—mother of his human nature, not his divine nature. If ND teaching 
eliminates subordination to magis­
terium of the Catholic Church, I 
wouldn't contribute a dime, goodwill, 
social support or even go to a football 
game." 
Another Alumnus typed: "I find it 
extremely difficult to come up with 
a one-word answer. I do not believe 
that the average Alumnus is in a posi­
tion to accurately evaluate a decision 
which must have been studied and 
restudied by the administration from 
all aspects. My concern, however, is 
primarily directed toward the prob­
lems of fulfilling the University's role 
in today's world — yet preserving 
those values and traditions which have 
been such an integral part of ND. If 
the reorganization of the governance 
of ND is successful in bringing off 
this juggling act, you may check the 
'favorable' block in five or ten years." 
In the final question on the survey, 
"What programs need the strongest 
emphasb at ND?" these were the re­
sults: faculty development, 54 per­
cent; graduate education, 33 percent; 
student aid programs, 24 percent; re­
search programs, 18 percent; residence 
halls, nine percent; and physical facili­
ties, seven percent. (The percentage 
doesn't total 100 because more than 
one area could be checked by the re­
spondents.) 
There WSLS only a slight difference in opinion regarding the emphasis on graduate education between those Alumni who attended graduate or professional schools themselves and those who had not. Thirty-four per­cent of those with higher degrees favored more emphasis on graduate education as did 32 percent of those who had not attended graduate school. 
Perhaps only because it was the last question and their last chance to get in a comment, many Alumni wrote messages along with their choices of the areas that needed fur­ther development. Many thought other categories should have been listed including "development of a balance between character and in­telligence (the most important factor in education)," and (believe it or not) "maintenance of a respectable football team to represent the Uni­versity." 

Another thought "family loyalty generation after generation without emphasb on CEB (College entrance boards) or ACT (American College Testing), etc" should be emphasized. "Less meddling by the religious hier­archy" would have been an appro­priate column according to t\vo Alumni. "Stronger student discipline than currently seems to exist," was mentioned by an Alumnus who lives 
FACULTY DEVEIOPMENT Receives fop priority. 
in Florida — and another suggested 
"Self-control by both students and 
faculty on social problems which they 
think only they know something 
about—at times I am almost ashamed 
of what the press reports of things 
coming out of ND." 
A Fort Wayne man thinks a medi­
cal school for ND is still worth push­
ing for. Another Hoosier who checked 
faculty development commented "70 
percent of the commerce class ended 
up in sales. I recall no class or cov­
erage of sales in the four years I at­
tended ND. Very poor." 
Another who checked faculty de­
velopment added "Good students and 
money follow good men." A New 
Yorker suggested "expansion, broad­
ening and further development of the 
admissions office and program." 

The mention of graduate education development drummed up some opinions including these: "I would prefer that the University emphasize the finest undergraduate education rather than the research and gradu­ate programs." And a man who earned both a bachelor's and a law degree from ND thought the Uni­versity should "de-emphasize the graduate level and make the school for masses of undergraduates." An insurance man commented there should be an extension of facilities to more students at the undergrad level. Another emphasized "No! No! No!" after the graduate education cate­gory. 
Another suggested reli^ous pro­grams needed more development and offered this advice; "Set aside one Sunday a year when all ND men attend Church / Mass / Communion.'' 
A Maryland engineer commented, "ND 
has been a great Catholic university. 
Its greatest challenge lies in resisting 
the temptation to secularize. There­
fore strongest emphasis should be 
placed on maintaining religious prin­
ciples." 
"What happened to theology?" 
questioned a Kansas City, Mo. sales 
manager. A Clevelander thought "re­
ligious campus discipline" needed 
emphasis. A Houston attorney thought 
none of the categories listed were 
worthy of increased development. He 
scratched them out and wrote, "The 
primary fimction of ND should be to 
provide a Catholic-oriented educa­
tion to 1) live in the world and 2) 
make a good living. Then — it's up 
to the individual." 
"Christian development" and "em­phasis on Apostolic activities" were two items inserted by an Illinois engi­neer. A "return to Catholicism" was cited by an Alumnus who did not identify himself but wrote in red that he was "opposed to surveys and to the sellout of ND by the Holy Cross Fathers." 
A personnel representative in New Mexico thought diere should be "less radicalism and fadism, especially in religious matters." Another who thought there should be more empha­sis on religion commented, "From my conversation with students at ND in the past 10 years, ND is sorely in need of another Father John O'Hara. Edu­cation without firm religious training is nothing. The character of all peo­ple of the US is lessening; the entire morals of all people including our Catholic priests is downgrading. Un­less we reverse this trend, it can only lead us to chaos." 
Other "last chance" comments were these: "I would like to see them go back to eating at tables with waiters and I would think the rooms could be lar^r." Another didn't think resi­dence halls deserved any attention be­cause, if they got any larger, they 
EXPANSION OF FACILITIES Least important. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1958 FEBRUARY 

would "ruin the unity of the school." An attorney commented, "A good 
AT RANDOM: More Alumni Comments 
start might be the education of stu­
dents at ND. No responsible parent in good conscience could recommend that his son go to ND if he wants him to become truly educated." 
"If they do not expand enrollment where my children might have a pros­pect of attending 15 years from now, I could care less. It is quite dis­couraging that sons of graduates have litde chance now," wrote the presi­dent of an oil drilling firm. Others urged making it possible for "Average Joe" to go to ND. 
An Ohio man wrote "In my many contacts with other higher educational institutions, I find that, generally speaking, there is a policy of 'publish or perish' in regard to their profes­sors; the result being that many pro­fessors seem to have more interest in publishing a book and/or becoming involved in considerable outside con­sulting work, with insufficient time allotted to teaching. In many cases, these professors organize a program where the students provide the bulk of input work required for their pub­lications and, as a result, upon leav­ing college the student is poorly equipped to continue life at his chosen endeavor." 
A music educator got his licks in by \vriting: "Catholic arts in the US are generally 'lousy' in relation to the great Catholic heritage at our dis­posal. Music is probably at the bot­tom. Our great Catholic institutions see only the beauty of commerce (money) and science. Art is some­thing to take a cultured bath in or look or see in 19th century museums. Art in Catholic education is the first five minutes of 'Swan Lake' — after that it gets a little weird. Catholic art education in music seems to be a foot­ball half-time show." He ran out of room but said he had more to say and asked where to ^vrite. TH E ALUM­NUS is one place, of course. 
"Graduate progriains definitely do not need more emphasis. There are too many overeducated, under­worked students in industry now." 
"/ recognize the need for the University to always seek to im­prove and grow in stature. My only misgiving is that while doing these things, let it not lose all that was good in the past. Let's not make it an imitation Ivy League School. Let's have a cross section academically as well as economical­ly— not all eggheads and wealthy students." 
"Have a 'tolerance' for the sons of Alumni so that they can enter ND easier. Everything is based on scholastic ability today while the Alumni who made ND what it is today and who were not all 'egg­heads' have to sit back and watch some of these creeps that are part of the ND scene rant and rave while their own sons of a different heritage cannot attend ND." 
"ND needs more emphasis on social growth. When I graduated from ND last year I was a 23-year­old with the social maturity of a 19-year-old. How about a new Stu­dent Center — or some girls in the rooms?" 
"I suggest group residence halls around various colleges similar to Oxford and others." 
"No well-qualified student should be unable to attend merely because of low funds. Take the best, not the good ones with money. Make undergraduate living more hu­mane. (Freshmen need space to breathe, too.) I feel also that ND should increase access of under­graduates to their teachers." 
"The strongest emphasis should be improvement in the quality of 
undergraduate education." 

"Most buildings'on Campus are not fit for human occupancy! I feel that ND spends the money it receives foolishly — $4 milliitn on a nuns' residence, a quarter of a million on a library mural." 
"Most strongly I urge a dis­ciplined, meat and potatoes educa­tion: ND's specialty for 100 years prior to the '50s." 
"I've been away too long to know what areas need emphasis, but I would like an administrative return to former required discipline habits of students." 
"I'd like to see a program for Alumni to contribute over the years for their sons' tuition — a mutual fund type." 
"After seeing that ND was allow­ing Herbert Aptheker to speak on the Campus, I couldn't care less about reorganization or develop­ment." 
"I'd like to see cooperation with area industry and business in both advisory and research capacities and use of school facilities." 
"Get out from under the yoke of foundations." 
"Your course of philosophy at present is disgraceful, hypocritical, and fraudulent" 
"Do further work on making the ND image of excellence in football transfer to every other ac­tivity of the University. Use the football image to better purpose." 
"What is needed is a return to the principle of teaching young men how to save their souls and to help their fellow men to do so while earning a living, instead of trying to make it the most or best Catholic institution in the world. If it's successful in teaching them to save their souk, it will be the best" 
"Let the student be the center of your requirements again. You have lost the family atmosphere and are concerned too much with the mechanics of education and the academic prestige of the school. You should be developing outstanding Catholic men at all IQ levels (as before) rather than just brilliant ones." 
And finally: 
"/ should like to suggest that an area of development which seems necessary is that of devising ques­
tionnaires. This one is incredibly
STUDENTS and THEIR RELIGION 
poorly drawn."
Cause of most controversy. 
il3 

Classes 

DR. CHARLES A. HUFNAGEL '37 The next step: Artificial hearts. 
THE BEAT CAN GO ON 
Artificial hearts and the use of animal hearts in human transplant operations were predicted at ND Jan. 8 by Dr. Charles A. Hufnagel '37. A physician who pioneered the use of artificial heart valves, Dr. Hufnagel is now head of Georgetown U. Medical School's Experimental Suipcal Lab­oratory. 
At the press conference preceding his Challenges in Science lecture on "Hearts and Parts," the internation­ally famous heart surgeon said hearts for transplantation purposes would eventually come from animals. "This source is more economical and also solves other problems surrounding the use of human hearts in transplants," he stated. He recommended the calf heart. "The only primate whose heart is acceptable is that of the gorilla, and they are too expensive and too troublesome to raise," he added. 
Hufnagel, who received his MD from Harvard in 1941, transplanted human heart valve tissue as early as 1948 and introduced artificial heart valves a few years later. 

"We are probably closer to a suc­cessful permanent heart transplant than we are to a total artificial heart," he noted. While an artificial heart solves the tissue rejection problem which has beset all organ transplants, the power source remains a technical problem. "An artificial heart with an external power source should be avail­able within the next couple of years," Dr. Hufnagel said, "but a heart with a self-contained power source is farther in the future." 
He took a cautious attitude toward heart transplant operations, stressing that biological rejection can take place over a long period of time. He 
U 

emphasized that the techniques for transplanting all major human organs —-with the exception of the brain— had been established by surgeons and that what had held back the human heart transplantation operation was a belief "that the chances of long-term success were not commensurate with the risks involved." 
Dr. Hufnagel's heart surgery in­novations resulted from painstaking research into the heart's circulation and extensive experiments with arti­ficial substances—from Lucite to Or­ion and Dacron. In 1952, after eight years of experimentation with such materials, he made the first use of a caged-ball valve in a heart patient, proving his contention that "a com­pletely non-biological material could be fashioned into a moving part of the body and function permanently in that dynamic capacity." 
The caged-ball valve was replaced wt h other more-sophisticated valves which more closely simulated the action of a natural valve until late in 1966 when the latest of four major aortic heart valves—a "unit tri-leaflet valve" fashioned from siliconized rubber impregnated with an anti-clotting chemical—^was announced by Dr. Hufnagel and his associates at Georgetown. 
The Memory of a Pilot 
An Army airfield at Fort Sheridan, 
111. has been renamed for Capt. Patrick L. Haley '63 who was killed last April in Vietnam while on a mis­sion as a helicopter pilot. 
Captain Haley, a former platoon leader in Army ROTC at ND, was posthumously awarded the distin­guished service cross and the distin-
AlUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 

guished flying cross for heroism in-Viemam. His mother, Mrs. Louise K. Haley of LaSalle, 111., accepted the awards at the field dedication service in December. Formerly knovm as Fort Sheridan airfield, Haley airfield is on the northern end of the Army reservation. 
City Hall Never Had It So Good 
ND Alumni are popping up as mayors in cities from coast to coast Well, at least in Mt. Vernon, NY; Toledo, Ohio and Denver, Colo. 
Several hundred of Mt. Vernon's 75,000 residents turned out New Year's Day to see their new mayor, August P. Petrillo '35, '36L inaugu­rated. Mayor Petrillo forecasted a "new era of progress for the city" and told his citizens their new admin­istration had already started to move forward. One such move, he indi­cated, was conferring with some of the nation's leading builders concern­ing a Midtown Urban Renewal Project. 
Mayor Petrillo is optimistic that the state's share of the urban renewal costs of over $1 million — previously denied the city — will be restored. A Republican elected by a large major­ity. Mayor Petrillo foresees a new era for his city stemming from enthusi­asm among city employees and from "the vocal expression of divergent views by individuals or organizations." 
The President of A. T. Petrillo & Co., cut-stone contractors, Petrillo started serving his community soon after graduation as a deputy tax commissioner. His work as an attor­ney has included trials and property assessing. At ND he was a member of the fencing squad and an interhall football team — good preparation for any political aspirant. 
MAYOR PETRIllO '35 Miles to go ... 

ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 
In the midwest William Ensign '50, MA '51 upset the GOP incumbent who held the reins for six years in Toledo, Ohio. Ensign garnered 57,000 votes to John W. Potter's 46,000. 
After being unemployed for the duration of the campaign (he left his post as county welfare director to devote full time to politicking). Ensign 'Svent back to work" Dec. 4 when the new administration assumed control of Toledo's city hall. 
Mayor Ensign's political insight goes way back — to when his father was chauffeur for Cleveland's mayor. Then, too, in 1941 young Ensign was selected national high school snare drum soloist so victory was nothing new to him. 
In 1942 he joined the marines and was sent to Parris Island, SC, to help 
AAAYOR ENSIGN '50 Stopping by the city hall. 

train regimental bands. But the usual foulup sent him to a machine-gun company on Guam while the band he was assigned to was transferred to Hawaii. After the war, which for him included six months in China, he got his personal independence July 4, 1946, and he tried to get into ND — but he wasn't admitted. 
So he studied at Eastern Illinois State Col. until he finally got into ND on a music scholarship in February, 1948. He was drum major of the marching band for three years. Ensign developed an interest in juvenile de­linquency while he was in the service, and his first after-college job was as a caseworker in South Bend. He helped set up St. Joseph County's first juve­nile probation department and then went to Toledo where he Avas a Lucas County probation officer. 
In 1960 he was named the first administrator of the Ohio Pardon and Parole Commission in Columbus but returned to Toledo to head the combined Toledo and Lucas County^ welfare departments in 1963. He re­organized the welfare program and increased the staff bam 15 casework­ers to 200. He took on several new state and federal programs, including the first food stamp plan in Ohio. Out west Tom Currigan '41 is well into his second four-year term as the mayor of Denver. His re-election last May marked the first time a "run-off" has been avoided since that election plan was adopted in 1952. Mayor Currigan took 55.7 piercent of the votes — 72,719 of the 130,420 cast for eight candidates in the primary. In Denver a run-off election is neces­sary unless one candidate wins 50 per­cent of the votes plus one. 
Mayor Currigan's re-election cam­paign centered on the promises kept from his first campaign. He had pledged to rebuild the police depart­ment, to expand the airport and bring about coopieration between the city and the airlines, to begin building a new Denver General Hosp., to start construction of a new Convention Center, to bring about needed capital improvements, to fight for urban re­newal and rehabilitate the lower downtown, to expand the park and recreational facilities and to lead the fight against discrimination. On each of these points he was able to check "done" and his 1967 slogan was "Tom keeps his word." 
The Mayor, who previously served two terms as city auditor and has been in city politics since 1951, has a new 10-point program to carry out in his second term—^including redeveloj}­ment of the Platte River Valley which composes 10 percent of the land area of the city. 
AAAYOR CURRIGAN *41 . . . promises to keep. 

about winter? 
Ait Teed Off 

Then think Reunion '68! The 1968 Reunion committees ore keeping the boll rolling—^writing letters to classmates urging them to forget their long woolies and get their golf swings limbered up. Foursomes are forming and they're waiting fore you. Wood you putt June 7, 8 and 9 
on your calendar? 
ALBERT A. KUHLE '15 117 SUNSET AVE. LAGRANGE, ILL. 60525 
GROVER F. MILLER '16 1208 SOUTH MAIN ST. 
RACINE, WIS. 53403 

31-Vear 
EDWARD McOSKER ='17 525 MELROSE AVE. 
ELGIN, ILLINOIS 60120 
Club 
DAN E. HILGARTNER '17 P.O. BOX 75 HARBERT, MICH. 49115 

Your secretary was pleased to receive an inntation to have lunch with an old friend, GROVER F. MILLER *16, who resides at 1208 S. Main St., Racine, Wis. 53403. Grover has been in the insurance-bond business in Racine for more than 50 years. 
A very newsy letter was received from HEXRY 

J. FRAWLEY '14 whose address is RFD 2, Spcar­fish, SD 57783. Unfortunately space will not permit more than a few items. I know of no one who has a greater storehouse of memories of his da>3 at ND. His son HANK JR '59 was able to visit the Campus for the Na\7 game. He had the pleasiu-e of attending the great pep rally Friday evening in the old field house—^better known as the g>-m to our generation. It is reported that this occasion was the last football rally in the g>'m since this structure is to be torn down. All future rallies will be staged in the new Athletic and Convocation Center. HANK JR had the pleasure and good fortune of meeting many of his old friends on the Nov. 4 weekend—priests, faculty and classmates. Among the last mentioned were JIM COONEY, the able and astute Alumni sec­retary and the talented DAVE SHANAHAN. 
Iklrs. Frawicy's mother was a sister-in-law to the late Archbishop Hanna of San Francisco. Possibly you remember the good archbishop lectured in Washington Hall and he delivered the anniversary sermon in Sacred Heart Church commemorating ND's 75th founding. Hank writes, "After a pro­tracted period in a Rapid City hospital for observa­tion and subsequent surgery, I can gladly state that I am feeling fine and getting stronger each day." Best wishes. Hank, for good health and many more happy years. 
HAIL ND FOUNDING—the' birthday of ND was Nov. 26, 1842. The occasion of its 125th anni\*ersary was celebrated Friday, De c 8, one of the religious feast days of the Virgin Mary whose statue stands atop the dome of the Administration Building. After a Mass celebrated by Archbishop Luigi Raimondi, apostolic delegate to the US, educators and scholars opened a two-day sym­posium on "the role of a university in a develop­ing world society." 
With regret we announce that FRED L. STEERS '11, Chicago, died Nov. 7. He went down in Fighting Irish lore as one of the men who convinced a discouraged ROCKNE to stay as an undergraduate. Mr. Steers was a loyal and active Alumnus. He was not a Catholic. He was former president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. He is survived by the widow, Mayc, 1910 
W. 107th St., Chicago 60643, a daughter and son. 
WILLIAM L. BECKHAM '15, father of JOHN JR '50, died Aug. 4. The son resides at 2909 Kenwood Blvd., Toledo, Ohio. JOHN J. GARRY '17 died Nov. 11 at Pt. Nechcs, Tex. 77651. Eternal rest grant unto them, O Lord, and let perpetual light shine upon them. Afay they rest in peace. 
A late note from "HEINIE" ALVIN BERGER sa>-s he and his good wife Alice are wintering in Eustis, Fla. They are back again in the same apartment and have the same nice neighbors. To their many friends they sent this greeting: **Wherever you are, it is our wish tliat the sun will shine through every cloud; that happiness Avill overshadow every sorrow; that illness will pass by your door; that come 1968 holidays and the end of 1968, we may again wish you cheer and much happiness." 
By the time this reaches you I hope you wll have shared in the blessings of Christmas and that you will all have started on a bright and happy New Year. 
—Albert A. Kuhle '15 

PAUL FOGARTY reports he is still taking adrenalin shots after watching the Miami thriller in the Orange Bowl. He also states he has seen CHARLEY BACHMAN, JOE FLYXN and "PREP" WELLS '15 who reside in the vicinity of Dclray Beach, Fla., where Paul is spending the winter, and much more, no doubt. 
— Dan E, HUgartner '17 

1918 
GEORGE W.\AGE 
3305 WRIGHTWOOD AVE. 
CHICAGO, ILL. 60647 

May the New Year bring health and happiness to 
you all. Let's start the New Year by sending out 
birthday greetings. Here are some dates for you 
to remember: 
Feb. 23, ARTHUR J. BERGMAN '17, 3918 

Rosemary St., Chevy Chase, Md. 20015. March 4, 
MARCH F. WELLS '15. 1901 E. Taylor St., 
Bloomington, lU. 61701. March 8, H.ARRY M. 
BRADY '18, 411 Strathmoor Blvd., Louisville, Ky. 
40205. March 11, 'B.A. MUNECAS '16, 776 
Georgetown St., Rio Picdras, Puerto Rico 00927. 
March 27, E. MORRIS STARRETT '18, 419 
Quincy St., Pbrt Townsend, Wash. 98368. March 
31, HUGH S. CARROLL '18, 338 Mountain 
View Ave., San Rafael, Calif. 
April 6, GEORGE E. HARBERT '18, 1623 23id St., Rock Island, III. April 9, JOH.V J. VOELKERS '18, 1006 S. Wesley Ave., Oak Park, III. 603M. April 21, CRARLES W. CALL '18, 1047 Biltmore Dr., Winter Haven, Fla. 33880. April 26, Dr. NEIL J. "WHITEY" WHALEN '18, 1023 Cadieux Rd., Grosse Pointe Pirk, Mich. April 28, ALLAN W. FRITZSHE '18, 575 Washington Ave., Elyria, Ohio 44035. April 28, WILLIAM H. KELLY '18, 1950 Reeveston Rd., Richmond, Ind. 47374. April 2. D. 
M. NIGRO '17, 1222 McGee St., Kansas City, Mo. 64106. April 25, EDWARD J. McOSKER 
•17.
 525 N. Melrose Ave., Elgin, 111. 60121. Wedding anniversaries coming up are March 27, 

E.
 MORRIS STARRETT '18, 419 Quincy St.. Port Townsend, Wash. 98368, April 4. M. G. KAZUS '18, 101 Knox Ave., Buffalo, NY 14216; April 14, Dr. RENE RODRIGUEZ '18 2266 Broadway, Denver, Colo. 80205; April 15, JAMES 

L.
 SWEENEY '18, 1254 Milwaukee Ave., Denver, Colo. 80206; April 15, LOUIS H. FOLLETT '18, 1303 W. Oak St. Norristown, Pa. 19401; April 21, LEO P. GAUSS '18, 5740 E. 10, Indianapolis, Ind. 46219. 


Rev. CHARLES L. DOREMUS CSC supplied this information on Rt. Rev. Msgr. FRANCIS 
P. MONIGHAN VF who died Aug. 5, 1967: Monsignor Monighan was bom in Oil City, Pa. March 13, 1893. He attended the grade school in Oil City and came to ND to finish his high school. He was ^ven a scholarship by the rector of St. Joseph Church in Oil City, Rev. Thomas Carroll, who was one of the generous contributors to the N D grotto. Like Rev. BERNARD LANGE who came from Oil City before him, he con­tinued to be an altar boy. He scr\'ed Mass in 
the basement church where all of the priests were saying their daily Masses. When there was a service in the big church. Father Lange would take the censer and Father Monighan would act as master of ceremonies. The official master of ceremonies was Rev. William O'Connor who was master of the St. Joseph's Novitiate then located on the other side of St. Joseph's Lake. Father Monighan acted as his assistant. 
When Father Monighan was made pastor of St. Joseph Church in Gregory, SD, one of his sisters came to keep house for him. The parish, which was mostly Indian, was very poor and the Sunday collection was from 40 cents to $1. The Indians sometimes brought the fruits of their little gardens or the meat of some animal killed in their bunts. Father went often to \^it his parishioners to instruct their children and he lived very simply. 
His nster Kathleen, who kept house for him for 38 years, died May 7, 1967 and this ^vas a great blow to him. His brother George also died last year. During the summer of 1967 the doctor sent Monsignor Hughes to the hospital in Yankton, SD for tests, then to the hospital in Gregory. After his death Aug. 5, a Requiem Mass was sung Aug. 8 by Bishop William IblcCarthy who bad 
visited him often during his hospitalization. His body was sent to Oil City and the funeral was Aug. 10. The Mass was said by Rev. Robert Bower and burial was in Calvary Cemetery in Oil City. 
ALVIN H. BERGER '15 and Mrs. B. are off for Florida. With them go cur best wishes. "HcinieV* address will be Eustis, Fla. 32726, 
P.O. Box 996. I heard from WILLIAM E. BRADBURY '16 who reports enjoying good health—but don't anyone think Bill will leave Robinson, 111. even for a day. MAX G. KAZUS promises—health permitting—that he and Mrs. will return to ND for Reunion. 
SHERWOOD DIXON with the Mrs. toot ofT for the west coast and some salmon fishing. After taking a mis-step on a boat, he did all his fishing with his leg in a cast. Sherwood uTOte that JIM SWEENY phoned about the passing of JOHN GARRY '17. The three of 'cm started together in Bronson Hall and also joined the Army together. Dixon said BERT SENG and Mrs. finally got back to Dixon, 111. for a visit. 
JOSEPH T. RILEY "carries the baU" for Coach Ara and the need for an enlarged stadium. Riley also admits he wus in Sorin Hall subway the same time as "BIG FRANK" RYDZEWSKL WALTER MILLER and I roomed with "Big Frank." 
E. Morris Starrett still writes about his yvatet bucket carrying days. By the way Morris was a track man as was JOHN J. VOELKERS, a quarter milcr who writes that BILL ANDERS is OK and was up for the Iowa game. Bill's wife is not enjoying the best of health. Come June Bill could perhaps "bug" Whitey Whalen MD for some free advice. Whitey has returned for some of the football games and states he enjoyed the Michigan State game. 
I'm pleased to report that Rev. CHARLES J. WILLIAMS looks great and is enjoying good health. He sent a "hello" to John L. Lcmmer, GEORGE E. HARBERT and trackman Call. 
I hope you have received the new I9I8 Roster. If not, request one from Editor John P. Thurin '59, I sincerely hope you and yours enjoyed the Holiday Season and that you are starting plans to return to ND for the Golden Jubilee Reunion. With you there it will prove a real Class success. May you live to be a hundred. Peace. 
THEODORE C. RADENUKER 
PERU FOUNDRY CO. 
PERU, IND. 46900 

1919 
JAMES H. RYAN 2470 EAST AVE., AFT. 314 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. 14610 

1920 
LEONARD CALL is in very good health and active with the Hearst magarine in NYC. His son is a priest. You will remember EDDIE GOTTRY—very well known by all in Corby Hall in about 1922-23. He now is in NYC. 
Our very good friend JAKE KLINE is probably the oldest coach in college baseball. I remember well he started coaching baseball in 1920 and is still the coach for ND baseball. He attended a baseball coaches' meeting in NYC in January. 
Our "Eastern ND Personified," JOHN T. BALFE, is leaving for 67 days' cruise on the SS Independence from HollywtMx] to go to Rome and the East, Florence, Dakar, Africa, Yalta, Black Sea and Athens. I have advised him to steer clear of Alexandria because my brother was there recently and found the natives very antago­nistic tou'ard Americans. John advises that his wife has to have a breast removed because of cancer. We all pray there will be no ill effect from this operation. 
DAN W. DUFFY 
1030 NATL. CITY E. 6th BLDG. 
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44U4 

1921 
G. A. "KID" ASHE 
175 LANDING RD. N. 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. 14625 

1922 
We extend our sympathy to Hon. AL SCOTT of Los Angeles on the death of his sister, Mary, Nov. 8 after a long and painful illness. Please remember Mary in your prayers. 
Peg, MIS. FRED H. BAUMER of Jacksonrine, Fla. infoims us that she recently visited her son, FRED H. JR in the South Bend area. He is an assistant to the comptroller at ND and lives at Greenbrier, Ind., a very short drive from the University. Fred H. Jr and wife, Barbara, gave birth to a son, John Kfaxwell Oct. 10. 
In Tcrre Haute, Ind. Sept. 2 occurred the 
wedding of Miss Linda Burdick to MICHAEL 
KEARNS, son of RAYMOND J. KEARNS of 
Terrc Haute. Our best wishes are heartily ex* 
tended to the newlyweds. Klichael is associated 
with his Dad in the practice of law. 
NEW ADDRESS DEPARTMENT: HEARTLEY 
W. ANDERSON, 1637 Orrington, Evanston, HI. 60201; JUSTIN E. HYLAND, 35-50 82nd St., Jackson Heights, NY 11103; Dr. KELVIN A. KASPER, 135 So. 18th St. Philadelphia 19103; THO^L\S F. LARKIN, 1009 No. 29th, Carsicana, Tex. 75110; GEORGE E. PROKOP, 1003 Shawnee Trail, Youngstown, Ohio; Rev. RjVYMOND C. SWITALSKI, 1530 Grant Rd., Mountain View Calif. 94022. 
Several requests have been received for names of men shown in our 45th Anniversary Class Reunion picture taken on the Campus June 9. Our grateful thanks go to DAN YOUNG and 
J. FRANK "RANGY" MILES for their expert work in identification and labeling. Now we are asking JOHN THURIN if he can spare us sufficient space in this issue of the ALUSINUS for printing. 
Those in the picture are, from lower left; Dr. CARLOS SAWYER, Dr. DANIEL L. SEXTON, 
R. GERALD JONES, HEARTLEY W. ANDER­SON, A. HAROLD WEBER, JOHN T. HIG­GINS, MORGAN F. SHEEDY, RAYMOND J. KEARNS, GERALD A. ASHE, JOHN R. CORYN, D. CHESTER GRANT, FRED B. DRESSEL, GEORGE G. KERVER, Bro. FINBAR C.S.C, FRANCIS C. BLASIUS, LEO J. LOVETT, FRANK B. BLOEMER. 
Second Row: JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, J. FRANK iHLES, EDWARD J. GOTTRY, RAYMOND A. BLACK, T. PIERRE CHAM­PION, DANIEL J. O'CONNELL, GERALD C. BRUBAKER, Rev. S. A. JANKOWSKI CSC, WALTER L. SHILTS, JAMES A. CARMODY, JOHN B. REARDON, ROMAINE R. REICH­ERT, Dr. MATTHEW W. WEIS, THOMAS E. OWENS. 
Top Row: JACK SAUNDERS (Class of "31), CYRIL B. FITES, JEROME F. DDCON. ROBERT P. GALLOWAY, VINCENT J. HAN­RAHAN, E. JOHN HILKERT, GEORGE E. PROKOP, JOHN S. RAHE, Hon. JAMES E. MURPHY, CLARENCE R. SMITH, ARDO REICHERT, DANIEL H. YOUNG. 
Those attending the Reunion hut not in picture were Dr. EDWARD N. ANDERSON, CHARLES 
A. CROWLEY, JOHN P. CULLEN, JAMES V. JONES. THOMAS S. McCABE, CLARENCE E. MANION, LEO R. METZGER, PAUL V. PADEN, PAUL J. PFOHL, PAUL J. SCHWERT­LEY, JAMES C. SHAW, LAWRENCE T. SHAW. CHESTER A. WYNNE and Rev. GEORGE B. FISCHER CSC. 
LOUIS V. BRUGGNER 
1667 RIVERSIDE DR., AFT. A 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46616 
JAMES R. MEEHAN 
301 S. LAFAYETTE BLVD. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46601 

1924 
JOHN P. HURLEY 
2085 BROOKDALE RD. 
TOLEDO, OHIO 43606 

1925 
ARMANDO J. PORTA, vicc-prcs. of Assodates Investment Co., died Oct. 12 in St. Joseph's Hosp. after a brief illness. "Al" had been chief financial officer at Studebaker before his promo­tion to executive vice-pres. He was very active in South Bend affairs. He was a member of ND*s President's Council and was ND "Man of the Year" in 1960. Survivors include his widow Mildred and a son and daughter who live at 1626 Inwood Rd. 
MYRON E. HOOD died Nov. 14. I received a note from his widow who ivanted ND and his classmates to know. A Mass was said for Myron and Al Porta. Remember them in your prayers. 
FRANK W. ROWLAND, general agent of the Detroit-Howland Agency of Mass. Mutual Life Ins. Co., retired Nov. 30 after 40 years with the company. Frank has received national recogni­tion among the underwriteis of life insurance agents. He is a former prcs. of the Memphis ND Alumni Assoc. 
The son of the Ute HARRY STUHLDREHER, Peter Joseph, was the costume designer of the recent ABC-TV special "John Davidson at Notre Dame" which featured the other three "Four Horsemen." 
BOB WORTH writes he will try to be back in '70. He's sales mgr. of the International Hal> vcster account for the F^estolite Co. of Toledo. 
LARRY CASEY wrote: "Enclosed are several snaps to prove you were at the Reimion. You can now prove to Edgar Hoover you didn't steal the tray but earned it." Larry, many thanks for the pictures. And again thanks to DON MILLER, HANK WURZER and the fellows who were given that "tap" in June. 
J. N. GELSON GELSON k. LOWELL. INC. 
200 E. 42mA ST. 

1926 
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017 
CLARENCE J. RUDDY 
111 W. DOWfER PL. 
AURORA. ILL. 6050ft 

1927 
By the time this issue is received 1968 win be well on its vray. I cannot let 1967 pass, however, without commenting upon the deat^ of tivo ND men which occurred during the past year— FORREST "FOD" COTTON '23 and JIM WTTHEY '26. Neither of them was a member of the Class of '27, but both left a deep impression upon your secretary. They were as dissimilar as any two men can be, yet they helped to penonify the muversal type of ND man. 
Fod was the first student I met at ND. Having brought me to school safely, my parents had just let me out of the car at Father Sorin's statue and I stopped the first person I saw to ask ilirections. The person was Fod Cotton, a big, husky, athletic man with an ND monogram on his sweater. He was courteous, kind and helpfuL As far as I was concerned, we established great rapport when I learned his hometown was EI^ , lU., only 22 miles from my hometown of Aurora. 
Fod was graduated several years before I was and I lost track of him for a long time. Years later he filled an important postition with the USO and travelled to many places in connection with his activities on behalf of servicemen. 
I met him at a USO dinner in Chicago sometime after the War. He was still the same personable, helpful friend he was during the student days. Through all his life, I am sure he projected the image of a true ND man. 
By contrast, Jim Withey '26, was lean and aesthetic looking. Athletics had no appeal for lum. For four years his room was next to mine in BatSn Hall. He was a great student of English and an omnivorous reader. 
He was a master of English prose and a keen critic of literature. He was not interested in the technical aspects of the law but influenced several of his friends who were on the staff of the new Notre Dame Lawyer to use language that was meaningful and to the point. He was impatient with literary slovenliness and often sharp in his criticism; his comments were often interspersed with wit and were very likely to be remembered. He stayed at ND to be a professor of English and many students profited thereby. His health had not been good for many years; he passed away in the simuner of 1967. He deserves to be remembered. 
JIM JONES, a classmate of ours, died Dec 6 after a lingering illness. Jim married Lora Kennedy, St. Mary's '27, and had lived at Lynbrook, LI for some 20 yean. He had been with McGraw-Hill Publishing Co. for several years but left them about ten years ago to engage in the real estate business on LI. He had five children and several grandchildren. 
Two more classmates died in the last few months. JOHN P. MONTBRUN died Oct. 23 in Sarasota, Fla. He was a former resident of Indianapolis and he retired from Indiana Bell Telephone Co. after 33 years as a staff engineer. EDMUND J. BANKS died July 8. He is survived by his widow Ruth, 371 S. Park PL, East 
Aurora, NY. 
AL DIEBOLD has brought us up to date on his actnities. He Is IK'ing in Fittsburgb> is married and has two daughters. Al is pres. of Forest Lumber Co. and reports that his spectacular rise from asst. bookkeeper to pres. is a real Horatio Alger story sincr—without any influence except that his father owned the business—^he vrzs able to make this "temfic progress." 
DAN CUNNINGHAM, our new Class pres., continues to zclay a lot of news. GERRY 
 F. BUCKLEY 
6*15 N. SHERIDAN RD., AFT. 1007 CHICAGO, ILL. G0626 

1928 
LOUIS 
FROELICH has sent his Mass contribution to Dan. Gerry had been in the hospital in August. His doctors have -told him he was having a severe heart attack but tests at the hospital dis­closed the diagnons %vas incorrect and the real difiScuIty vras stones in his gallbladder. He is now recuperating very nicdy. Dan also talked to JOE NULTY and JIM QUINN. Jim also re­covered from a recent illness but a now back on the job. 
TOBE GISH is practicing law in Central CSty, 

wives. We are grateful to FRANCIS MEYER for being with us and for taking pictures. The foUou-ing attended: J. ALLAN, B. BIRD. W. 
Ky. and seems to be doing very well. He has fcnt along a contribution for the Kbss Fund but we would all like to hear more from him. 
DICK HALPIN went down to Florida for the Uiami game. He reports be saw the HERB JONESes there, as well as many other N D {amilies. He would like to live in Miami during the mntcr months after his son Robert finishes Loyola Academy in 19^. Since Dick is scheduled to retire from Commonwealth Edison in a couple ol months, perhaps he can achieve his ambition. 
and JIM ALLAN at the Chicago Summa dinner wluch was chaired by Howie Phalin. LARRY CULLINEY caUed me Lite one night 
LOUIS CARR died Feb. 11 in Spring Lake, NJ 
from a heart condition which he had for a 
number of years. Lou retired in 1959 from Coast 
Cities Coaches Inc. where he served as general 
mgr. and \ice pres. for 22 years. Lou is survived 
by his w^fe, four children and 16 grandchildren. 
JOHN D. "SNUBBER" MURPHY died Oct. 

24 in Chicago while eating in a restaurant. John's 
wife u*as buried just four days before his death. 
He is survK'ed by his sister. He was buried in 
Lowell, &fass. I was also sorry to read of the 
deaths of our teachers and friends, Rev, THOMAS 
IRVING CSC 'Ot and Ptof. FRANK KELLY '24. 
Our treasurer JOE LANGTON arranged for 

Masses for LOU a\RR and JOHN IifURPHY. 
He also had twolklasses offered at ND in Nov. 
for all the linng and the deceased members of our 
Class. 
It is suggested we again follow the '28 Corporate Communion Sunday proposal of GERRY SHEIB­LEY which was carried out very successfully in 1964. The first Sunday of Lent, Alarch 3, ^viU be obser\*ed by our Class by participating in a Class of '28 Corporate Communion. Each class­mate and his family is asked to remember oinr deceased classmates at Communion and at Mass ^larch 3. It is also suggested that classmates arrange whenever possible for the group to attend Alass together and get together after ^fass for breakfast in variaus cities that day, as was done in a number of cities two years ago. Please give me a report of your cooperation in this program. 
HOWIE PHALIN continues to be very much in the news. He was elected chairman of the new board of trustees which has taken over control of DePauI U. Howie is also chairman for the SUAfXLA campaign in Chicago. He was also honored by Ikfayor Daley and other dignitaries for raising funds for the recently dedicated Mercy Hosp. in Chicago. 
We are indited to ED QUINN and his wife Helena for carrying out another successful '28 cocktail party after the Michigan State game, it was attended by 33 classmates, sons, daughters and 
 STAUDER 
ENGINEERING BLDG. 
NOTRE DAME, IND. 46356 

1929 
LARRY 
Found: After Oct. 28 Class party, one case for ladies glasses, bronze-flowered from W. A. Jones Optical Company. Will gbdiy forward to owner. 
Southern Cal was niunber one in the national rating but didn't bring as many to the after­game Class of '29 get-together as did Afichigan State two weeks later. We have previously re­ported on the So. Cal. party so we will begin with the Oct. 28 \ictory party. Attorney JOHN WALTZ of Canton, Ohio and his brother WIL­LIAM WALTZ '32 were present. John has a son ALBERT '61, a chemical engineer with Sinclair Oil in Houston, and a daughter, Charleen, a senior in ps>'choIogy at St. Louis U. 
Also from Ohio were Mary and JOHN COL.ANGELO who had only favorable things to say of a three-week \'3cation in Hawaii. While there, they met the FRANCIS CREADONs '28. John is with Ibvens and Emerson of Cleveland and New York, consulting engineers on water supplies and seuage disposal. John has spent much of his time on a large contract witii the City of St. Louis Authority*. He has been identified also with water purification studies in Cleveland and Cincinnati. 
Mary and CLAUDE HORNING and guests from Akron were hoping to see ED DEBAENE and JOHN MEAGHER as well as STEVE DURBIN. Steve, who is \ice-pres. of Texas Dis­tributors Inc. air conditioning and heating in Dallas, had planned to be present but had to be in southern Arizona instead. He looks forvrard to seeing PAT O'LEARY in June of '69 as well as JOE DAUTREMONT and BILL WILBUR who saw the Oct. 14 game. He would like to hear from all of you. 
BROWN, L. BUCKLEY, JOHN BRANNON, P, CANNY, V. CARNEY, G. COURY, F. CREADON. A. DAVIS, J. DORAN, W. DWYER, 
J. FREDRICK. B. GARBER, J. GRIFFIN. M, HOGAN. J. IGOE, J. HILGER A. JENKINS, 
W. JONES, J. LAHEY, L. McINTYRE. H. MASSMAN, A. MILLER, W. MURPHY, E. QUINN, E. RAFTER. J. REILLY, J. RIC­KORD, C. SCHUESSLER, B. SCHUH, IL SMITH. F. SCHROEDER. Sons of T. LA­VELLE, J. LEITZINGER and CLIPPER SMITH represented their parents and B. CRAIG repre­sented thor parents and B. CRAIG represented the Class of '29. 
BERNIE GARBER visited us after the '2S cocktail party. We called on BOB CAPESIUS and his wife who have five children and three grandchildren. Bob has completed two novels. 
Rev. JIM IbfcSHANE SJ minted us just before he left for Honduras where he returned to his mission work. He will set up an audio-Wsual center there. Father Jun met HOWIE PHALIN and JOHN RICKORD at noon Mass in Chicago, so they had a get-together for lunch. JOHN RICKORD has retired from Armour Co. 
We got togetiier with BILL DWYER WOULFE 
JERRY CROWLEY and Bariiara and JIM CURRY from Newton, Mass. and Brookfield Center, Conn, respectively were back enjoying the game and meeting their friends. We expect to see them again in June of *68 and '69. 
Margaret and BILL BISER, still at 212 Han­cock Dr. Syracuse, NY attended. The Alumni records and those of your secretary had in­advertentiy confused his address with that of his son WILLIAM D. '62 who is now in NY. We hope we have not inconvenienced you as we have the Bisers. The '29ers welcomed back LOUIS HANEY, attorney at law of Newark, NY. Lou and Mrs. Haney were South Bend guests of Prof. A. SMTTHBERGER '27 of the English faculty. Helen and BOB WILLIAMS of FaUs Churoh, Va. were house guests of Muriel and JACK PERKINS, Soutii Bend. 
Our Class chaplain, Rev. OTIS WINCHESTER of St. Thomas Aquinas Church of Cleveland, made plans to be with us but had parish obliga­tions that superseded them. Even with priests as dedicated as Father Otey .. . **there is not a whole lot of difference apparent, the awful hate of the Black nationalists continues as does the apathy of most of the good colored. The Church is not getting very far with any of them. Some orders of priests have been wiorking with them for over 60 years and without results . . ." Improvement is lagging. It is not only in Vietnam that we have people doing heroic work. 
We regret that Dolores and Class Pres. JOE LENIHAN had to alter their plans to be at ND Oct. 28. Personal obligations conflicted. Joe has made several trips to California and to Canada for Fromm and Sichel, but has been in the NJ area most of the past year parUy because of the terminal illness of JIM FRIEL who you may recall died in late July. Joe has qualified {irom New England to inquire whether it was too late to send in his questionnaire, Larry mentioned his friend DON CAMPBELL whom I conader as affiliated with our Class because of lus interest over the years. I urged Larry to bring Don along to our Reunion. My Corby Hall roommate DENNY DALY called me when he %vas in Chicago on business. I was sorry to hear that Denny has been quite ill with com­plications from diabetes. 
Judge GEORGE BEAMER has been in the xte%vs as a member of the panel hearing testi­mony concerning the Gary, Ind. elections. BILL KIRWAN repoHed on his get-together vrith JIM ALLAN and VINCE WALSH after tiie Illinois-N D game. I was unable to attend as I teach a Saturday dass at Loyola U. PAUL BRUST has been appointed to the Wisconsin Board of Ex­aminers for Architects. 
Dr. DAN BRADLEY advised of a get-together with VIC FISCHER, GEORGE CRONGEYER. JOE KISSLING, ED BRENNAN and JOHN ANTUS. We miss those get-together in New York arranged by Dan and George which we remember with great pleasure. 
JIM ALLAN reported on a party he attended at the beautiful new home of GEORGE COURY in Miami the weekend of the ND game there. Jim was pleased to see GEORGE LEPPIG, ART DENCHFIELD and CECIL ALEXANDER, all QI whom live in Miami. Jim also saw ED McSWEENEY and ARNOLD THO!hIA at the game. Ed is now retired. 
BILL DWYER did his usual good job in arranging for a get-together of 16 classmates at the annua! Rockne dinner of the N D Club of Chicago in December. Bill reported DICK PHELAN was seriously ill in the hospital as the result of another severe heart attack. 
ED McCLARNON retired in December as manager of the NYC office of Travelers Insurance Co. Ed has spent his entire career since June 1928 with that company. He hopes to attend our Reunion. 
for the NY Stock Exchange and is now affiliated with Amott Baker and Co. in the investment business. He continues an affiliation with Fromm and Sichel Inc. Joe writes, **Give my warmest greetings to my classmates, I look forward to senng them soon." 
MUdred and ALBERT ZOELLER and Else and FRANCIS MEYER of Hammond, Ind. were repeat viatots. Frauds took some pictures and continued on to the '28 party. Dr. JOHN A. VAICHULIS and his party of four added their news and good cheer to the group. Doc's son EUGENE '59 is in charge of a microbiological unit USN in the Pacific. His daughter Elizabeth was commissioned as an Ensign USN in mid-October. 
Also present were JOE DRINAINE and his daughter; JOHN DORGAN of Winnetka; JOHN SWEENEY, neighbor of ED DEBAENE in Detroit; and Betty and JOHN CUSHMAN and Dorothy Plunkett of South Bend. Patsy Plunket was a weekend house guest of her mother. House guests of the LARRY STAUDERs were Pat and ELMER HIRSH and Patti of Milwaukee. 
Rev. LOU THORNTON and Ann and BILL CRAIG were other regulars who enjoyed the fdlowship that followed the long-a%vaited victory over Michigan State. Sons Mike and Bob Craig are sc^homores at ND. We will have more news on the Craigs later. 
GLAIR BLACKALL, 407 N. Main St., N. BALTIMORE, Ohio replied to the recent mailing. He sends hu best mshes and expression of con­tinuing interest in his classmates. That Reunion in '69 is pidung up momentum; JOE SMIET­ANKA writes that he too is getting ready for it. 
REYNOLDS C. SEITZ, after 12 years as dean of Marquette U. Law School, has been making headlines in the Milwaukee Journal and elsewhere 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 

for hb work in labor aibitration and fact finding. His recommendations for increases in salaries paid policemen in Milwaukee were approved almost 100 percent. The case was tfie longest fact­finding case heard by a single fact-finder in the state. 
One of the controversial features of the pay plan was an added 9500 raise to patrolmen who take recommended college courses on their off-duty time during their first five yean on the force. Included would be courses in constitutional law, political science, administration in law en­forcement and criminal justice, psychology, urban sociology, human relations and public relations. For those who elect the program, the pay scale is one of the highest in the country. 
Dean Settz has performed a public service in an area in which we are continually more aware as we read the trends in violence and crime. We compliment him on his leadership and accomplish­ments. 
JOHN F. MORAN of Youngstown, Ohio writes, "I am recuperating from recent surgery and for the first time since graduation will miss seeing one or more games each year. However, my thoughts will be with you all. Would like to say 'hello' to HANK BURNS, CLETE SCHNEID­ER, Otey Winchester, Joe Lenihan and JOHN COLANGELO whom I usually ran into while attending games at ND." 
John's daughter, Patricia, a student at St. Mary's who is active in dramatics, attended our last Class get-together and can brief her Dad on his classmates. Get well, John. 
1930 
DEVERE PLUNKETT 
G'SHAUGHNESSY HALL KOTRE DAME, IND. 46356 

The news of the death of JACK CANNON was a sudden blow here. Most of Jack's sports ac­complishments have been reviewed again in the newspaper stories about his death. But I recall a very fine tribute paid him two years ago in Chicago when HUGHIE MULLIGAN invited a large number of Jack's fellow players and other friends to a dinner downtown in honor of his election to the Hall of Fame. MARTY BIULL and JUDGE CARBERRY came in from Calif, for the affair. Others of that era on hand were DAN CANNON, TOM CONLEY, JACK ELDER, "MOON" MULLINS, JOHN QUINN, BERT METZGER, CHET GRANT, IKE VOEDISCH, "HUNK" ANDERSON, "MOOSE" KRAUSE, FRANK KERSJES and BOB CAHILL. Of more recent vintage were JOHN IJ^TTNER and others of his period. Jack Cannon was in ex­ceptional form that evening and it will always be one of the most memorable for those in at­tendance. 
The most recent neu's about l^foon Kfullins is that he is coming along well after surgery this summer in NY. Tim Toomey had to miss the Georgia Tech and Afiami games after careful plans for that ninenJay period. Some new assignment in his Washington job prevented lus leaving at that time. 
Members of the Class of '30 should remember in prayer MALCOLM E. TROMBLEY who died Dec. 9. After receiving hb AB degree in 1930, he continued on in law school here and earned his LLB in '32. 
CHET ASHMAN wrote a note recently about his business, the Little Chair Co. in Morristown, Tcnn. The Ashmans are expecting a happy holiday season. Many Class members wrote in about the long sickness and eventual death of LARRY CRONIN. He was held in high regard by his classmates and several of them in the East were very attentive to Larry in his last weeks, including Tim Toomey, JACK CASSIDY, TIERNEY O'ROURKE and others. 
This is written on the day classes stop for the Christmas hoUdays. Tomorrow a delightful hush will come over the Campus, which is a relief after a few months of the usual din found in the iaU of the year. 
WALTER LANGFORD was lecenUy elected by the College of Arts and Letters to represent it on the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics. Walt's long experience in coaching tennis and fencing at ND mxdces him an ideal member of that board. 
The death of ART REYNIERS was a heavy shock here because so many members of the faculty had served with him for 20 or more years. The ALUMNUS carried the new* of the University conferring on him an honorary doctor of science degree. His Lobund Institute continues to be an active segment of University research today. 
May you all enjoy a good year in 1968! We are approaching another Reunion year pretty rapidly. Hang in therel 
Frank N. Hotlmmmm '33 
CALLING SIGNALS FOR THE DEMOCRATS NOW 
T
ACKLING Republicans and blocking for the Democrats is old stuiF for ND football hero Frank "Nordy" Hoff­mann '33L. But now he's doing it with a title — executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Com­mittee. 
In the post he assumed last Oct. 16, he assists a working group of Demo­crat Senators organize the election ef­forts of the party's chosen candidates for the Senate. Hoffman, his Senator committeemen and their Washington staff advise the candidates on all sorts of problems and work in harmony with the Democratic National Committee, 
the Democratic Congressional Commit­tee and other national and local party groups. Primarily the candidates seek publicity, research, speeches and speak­ers through Hoffmann's o£Sce on the main floor of the old Senate 0£Sce Building. 
Just last spring Hoffmann was named political action director of the United Steelworkeis of America and he had been using his political influence on behalf of the union. He joined the Steelworkers' staff in 1941 and three powerful union presidents — Philip Murray, David J. McDonald and I. W. Abel — depended on him to quarter­back the union's legislative battles for a quarter of a century. He served the union through many important Capitol Hill battles, including the Taft-Hartley Act, minimum wage and Medicare. 
Friends of Hoffmann organized a tes­timonial dinner for him at the Shore-ham in Washington Nov. 13. Mello Fish was chairman and Senator Gaylord 
A. Nelson was toastmaster. A booklet called O N GUARD: The Nordy Hoff­mann Story described his life and good works for charity, the steelworkers and the Democratic Party. It pointed out that every summer the pool at Hoff­

mann's Hyattsville, Md. home is filled 
with neighborhood youngsten and once 
a week with patients from Children's 
Hospital. "No one has a bigger heart, 
especially when youngsters are in­
volved," noted Dr. Fred Burke of the 
hospital staff. Hoffmann's own family 
includes an infant daughter, Eileen. 
The program also recalled Nordy's 

football career at ND and pointed out 
he had never played the game when 
he arrived on Campus in 1927. Knute 
Rockne encountered him crossing the 
quadrangle and asked why he wasn't out 
for freshman ball. When Nordy told 
him his high school didn't have a team. 
Rockne said, "If you report to the freshman practice field at two o'clock, we will teach you the game." 
Nordy reported, so the story goes, and went on to play first-string guard on Rockne's last two national cham­pionship teams (1929-30). He was named to several All-.Americas and starred for the East in the 1932 Shrine Game. After graduating from Law School, he served as an assistant coach at ND before leaving to play semi­professional football on the West Coast. Not bad for a late bloomer. 
His brawny background served him well as a local union leader in Penn­sylvania where he was employed by the Curtis-Wright Corp. and he worked so vigorously for the Roosevelt campaigns that he came to the attention of CIO Pies. Philip Murray. He quickly be­came one of those unsung heroes up front for labor and the Democrats — the kind who don't get any headlines but without whom elections cannot be won. He was in the thick of campaigns for Harry Truman, Adlai Stevenson and John Keimedy who called Nordy Hoffmann "the kind you like to have around when the going is the toughest." 
 DOYLE 

1931 
JAMES T. APT. 308 1567 RIDGE A\^., 
EVANSTON, ILL. 60201 

It is again deadline time for the ALUMNUS and 
Christinas time as I write this, so again, greetings 
to all. I attended the MS-ND game and, having 
drau-n seats in Sec 2, I did not get a diance 
to see many '31ers. Among those seen and 
visited were FRANK BUTORAC and his wife, 
ROBERT J. SULLIVAN, TOM MONAHAN, 
EDDIE AGNEW, PAUL DUNCAN, GENE 
VALLEE and GEORGE JACKOBOICE. The 
next c\-ening I had a phone call from JOE 
DUNNE who %ras stajing wth JIM MULVANEY 
for the football wcclwnd. 
FRANK HOLLAND had a surprise for me. 

He is the father of a son bora in January, 1967. 
His first wife Sadie died about four years ago 
and he remarried in 1966. Frank also brought 
the sad neu-s that his longtime friend, HENRY J. 
"RED" 0*CONNELL, sufiFercd a fatal coronary 
last October. 
It has been the custom for some classes to hold 

meetings or cocktail parties on Campus following 
a game. The Class of *31 has never done this 
and I would welcome an expression from Class 
members on this. 
I had a letter from NOEL "BUD" GIES who has become a confirmed Southern Californian now that he has a home uith a heated suimming pool. He reports that ED SHEERAN has finally re­covered from injuries sustained while on Campus for the imtial SUMNLA meeting. Bud also saw "SPIKE" ENGLAN*D at the LA SUMMA meeting. 
I had a letter from Marie and JIM McQUAID who attended the MS-ND game and who visited with JERRY BALL in Plymouth, Ind. In case I have forgotten, I want to thank Jerry Ball and others who were kind enough to send me copies of the '66 Reunion pictures tfacy had taken. Jim McQuaid was appointed by the pres. of Vinccnncs 
U. to represent him at ND on the occasion of the 125th Anniversary of NT) De c 9. 
DON OTOOLE and I had the privilege of participating in a '^parish appreciation" surprise party for Rev. C. BOURKE MOTSETT, pastor of St. Paul's Church, DanwIIe, III. This was truly a surprise party and Father Bourkc could not get o\*er the fact that his parishoners had worked on this for months and he was completely unaware of it. Other ND men present were JACK ELDER, GENE HOWERY and JACK BELTON. FRANCIS HENNEBERGER was un­able to attend but sent a congratulatory telegram. Rev. Charles Wilson CSC represented the Uni-t-ersity.' The program foUou'cd the format of the Ralph Edwards program, **This Is Your Life.*' Guests included his mother, his brother BILL MOTSETT from Ft. Lauderdale, JOHN BIT­TERS from Ttfcas and many others from both Dan\ille and Peoria. 
I trust an had a happy and holy holiday season and that *68 vnU see a greater response from the Class ol '31. 
1932 
FLORENCE J. McCARTHY 6 RIVER RD. 
SCARSDALE, N.Y. 10383 

The news is tather skimpy but I'll try to malEc sometiiing of it. ROBERT "PETE" STREB «-iitcs to say he had a card from HARRY MOSS JR from Brazil whose son is in the Air Force, Pete says PAUL BELDEN enjoys watching his nephew quarter-backing a few plays at ND and that WILLIAM WALTZ was at the MSU game and Pete made Purdue and So. Cal. 
TIM STREB '66 lias been commissioned 2nd Lt. in the Army Transportation Corps and is stationed at Fort Ord, Calif. Pete is sales manager for the Canton Systems division of Diebold, Inc. but is also connected with the Pro Football Hall of Fame. He graciously offers to all our classmates a personally conducted tour of the Hall of Fame if any of us get to Canton. 
FR.AN OELERICH has moved to 20(H Maple Ave., Northbrook, HI. 60062. Fran was in NY early in Decembo- on business and stayed at our home. We bad a real reunion. 
Rev. PAUL E. FRYBERGER CSC has moved from Portland U. in Oregon to Rancho, San Antonio at 21000 Flummer St., Chatsworth, Calif. 91311. Nice time of the year to go south. HERBERT J. WEHRLEN has moved from Pat­
mail comes back unopenrd. We also note that 
ROBERT BURGHART has moved to 205 Frontage 
Rd., Northfield, III. 60093, and none other than 
MARCHMONT SCHWARTZ has left Oakland, 
Calif, for 12 Blackberry Ct., Lafayette, Calif. 
94549. What are you doing March? Drop ns a 
line. Another classmate going south for the 
weather (?) is our pal Rev. HARRY STEGMAN 
who has left Watertown, Wis. for St. Joseph's 
Parish at 2903 £ . Rancier Ave., Killeen, Tex. 
76543. 
I can't think of anything else at the moment. Would like to hear from RAY GEIGER who always has lots of new3; from IKE TERRY who could fill us in on happenings in the Wisconan cold belt; from TEX SIMMONS on what has happened lately in Dallas. LEN CO.NDON talks pretty well, so let him send us some new3. If CLAYT DUERR is still in Florida, he must have an item or two. I haven't heard fiom CHARLIE HITZELBERGER in a hundred years, so what goes up in Herkimer County, NY? I'll give you some news on DON T. RYAN next time as he and his Lindy and daughter Lani (who is now Sister something—not being disrespectful, but she has just received her final voW5) are coming to our daughter Sally's wedding. Lindy is Sally's godmother. Small world. 
I hope you all appredate that this copy is written in December for a February issue. Just change all verbs to past tense. Send along some neus, even if its just to tell us when your birthday is. Just month and day—not year! Heaven forbid. 
•4 AA A JOHN A. HOYT, JR. 1 UW K GILLESPIE & O'CONNOR XvOc I 342 MADISON AVE. 
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017 We learned with deep regret of the death of Mrs. WILLIAM E. ACKERMAN of Wheeling, W. Va. Aug. 21, 1967; the death of WILLIAM M. GARRETT of Houston July 20, 1%7; and the death in late September of JOHN H. CAHIL of Opa Locka, Fla. Classes have been said at the University for each of our deceased classmates by Rev. Ferdinand Brown CSC. At this writing we have no particulars other than the reports furnished through the Alumni ofiSce. To the families of each, we extend our sympathy and prayers. **In Paradistun Deducant Te Angeli." 
ED GOUGH of Cleveland was in NY recently to attend the funeral of his fathe]>in-law. We visited briefly with him but he was crowded with family details and left soon after the funeraL Ed will be on Campus for our 35th Reunion in June. 
CHARLEY CONLEY, while attending the ND-Ibliami game in Florida, had a bit of a reunion %vith BILL DONAHUE of Harvey, lU., LEO HODEL of Chicago and JACK KENNEY of Drexel HiD, Fa. All plan to be at the Reunion. While in Miami, Charley talked with JIM BOYLE who practices law there, and also heard that JOE DAVEY of Ahna, Mich, and JOHN CUNNEA of Evergreen I^ik, III. had plans to attend the Reunion. Charley's trip to Aliami was a "newsy" success. 
CHUCK HAFRON, wriring from Frisco, sends regards from LES RADDETZ of Tarzana, Calif. Doc BOB DONOVAN is now Civilian Medical Officer, Anny Material Command, Dept. ol De­fense, stationed at the Research Centre, Water­town, Mass. 
I got a delightful Christmas note from Rev. JIM DONNELLY, my favorite Texas Missionary. Father Jim will be remembering all of us at his Christmas Masses. The next meeting of the Reunion committee will be in NYC in late December, according to ED ECKERT, class pres. 
PAUL BOEHM, director of public rebtions for South Bend, wrote to infonn us JI&I ARK has a very successful advertising business in Elkhart; JOHN McNAMARA continues to enjoy his re­tirement (since 1955) as adminislrator of the South Bend school system; LOU CHREIST, Pres. of the South Bend Toy Mfg. Co., recently won the senior tennis title locally; that JOHN CROWE, FRED BEAR and ART PREKOWITZ all are practicing law in South Bend; BEN WEIN­STEIN, the local restaurateur, had a heart attack; DAVE PLOTKIN is one of the area's most distinguished dentists; and FELIX WIATROWSKI is head of the saence dept. in the South Bend school system. We are indebted to Paul for his South Bend Report. 
PHIL FAHERTY of Lambertville, NJ was on the Campus for the Michigan State and Navy games. His son, Phil Jr, became a member of the Jersey Bar Oct. 31, 1967. 
Rev. RICHARD J. GRIMM CSC is now 

terson to 239 Spring St., Red Bank, NJ 07701. 
And EUGENE J. "SMOKEY" COYNE deserted Class of '35 men and their ladies enioyed a reunion at the ND-Georgia Tech the street- named after him to nevv quarters at game in Atlanta. Standing (left to right) ore WALTER MATUS, ROBERT A. 
1815 Ferguseon Rd., AUison Park, Penna. 15101. 
South of the border, down Mexico way, AN­HOLMES, WIlllAM E. MILLER, LEE T. FLATIEY and ANDY MAFFEI. Seated are TONIO R. DIAZ moved from Yucatan and his Mrs. Flatley, Mrs. AAiller, Mrs. Maffei, AArs. Holmes and Mrs. Paul A. Fergus. 
stationed at ManhattanviUe Col. of the Sacred Heart at Purchase, NY. What a delightful asngn­ment. JOHN ABBATEOMARCO can now be reached through FO Box 162, Pelham, NY 10603. ED COGLEY moved around the block in Oak Park and his new address is 203 N. Kenelworth, Oak Park, III. 60302. 
MARSHAL McAVENEY, now stationed in Europe for the Dept. of Justice, and can be reached c/ o Consulate General, APO. NY 09757. Judge MAXmCY LEE, now kno«m as Hon. Maurice W. Lee, still receives friends at 8309 Loomis Blvd., Chicago 60620. Rev. CHARLES £. COUGHLm, remember him? He spoke at our Commencement and has now retired as Pastor of the Shrine at Royal Oak, Mich. Send him a note in his retirement. 
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD 
523 W. HILLSDALE 
SAN MATEO, CAL. 94403 

1934 
WILLIAM F. RYAN 
1620 E. WASHINGTON AVE. 
SOUTH BEND. IND. 46617 

1985 
We were hopeful that the football season would provide a grand opportunity to fill this column with Class news via personal contacts with *35eis. However, such did not materialize. Perhaps the scarcity of tickets and accommodations kept many from attending. 
We did see and spend an evening with FRANK HOL.AHAN and ED VAN HUISSELLING. Several *35ers accepted the invitation of PAUL FERGUS to a party at his home after the So. Cal game. BOB ROGERS, CHUCK MAHER and ART O'NEIL were there with their wives. 
Our pres. also reported the reunion at the Geoigia Tech game >vas successful, although several who planned to attend v/ere unable to do so. *35crs who planned the reunion were BILL MILLER, "ARKY" FAIRHEAD, TOM WELCH, JIM BOWDREN, BILL SCHROEDER, BILL KENNEDY, BOB FORBES, ANDY MAFFEI, W.ALT M.ATUS and AL LAWTON. Some of the group also went on to the Miami game the foUou-ing week, where the reunion was continued for several days. 
Letters have been received from several of the '35ers expressing their enthusiasm for such gather­ings at out-of-town gam'es and urging that future ones be planned. Since the idea seemingly has caught on, one is being tentatively planned for the Purdue game in South Bend next year. We hope you \n\\ keep that date in mind and it would be very helpful to receive expressions of interest in such a gathering. 
ANDY ALAFFEI writes to tell about an honor extended to JOE SCHMIDT. Joe was given a testimonial dinner by the Bronx County Grand Jurors Assoc of which he is president. Among classmates attending besides Andy were BILL MILLER, RAY BRODERICK, MIKE SANTUL­LI, JIM SHIELDS, WALT MATUS, BOB ROGERS and PHIL HIENLE. 
News of the deaths of two more of our class­mates has been received since the last issue. JOHN J. LOCHER JR passed away Nov. 20 in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. JOHN NOVAK died of a heart attack Aug. 2 in Buffalo, NY. Besides his wife, John left a family of two boys and a girl. The sympathy of our Class was conveyed to Mrs. Lochcr and Mrs. Novak. 
The next deadline for the ALUHHUS is Feb. 14— St. Valentine's Day. How about sending some ''valentines" to yours truly prior to that date with news about yourself? 
LARRY PALKOVIC 
301 MECHANIC ST. 
ORANGE, N.J. 07050 

1936 
JOSEPH P. QUINN 
P.O. BOX 275; LAKE LENAFE 
ANDOVER, N.J. 07821 

1937 
BURNIE BAUER 
1139 tVESTERN AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46625 

1938 
AH hail JOHN PLOUFF who, 'midst the celebra­tion of the pre-football banquet resuscitations, accepted the general chairmanship of our 30th Reunion next June! John, who returned to ND a year ago as assistant to Father Joyce, is now looking for volunteers for regional chairmen to promote the big Return next June. Forget your army training and volunteer, please! 
Dr. DAN MONAGHAN (Lt.C. 0.478244 Com­manding Officer, 12 Evac Hosp. APO 96220) volunteered in his Christmas card to represent 
Texas or any other area provided we could get 
him back from the War in June. (I've got Gene 
McCarthy working on that, Dan.) 
JIM DOUGHERTY, real estate baron of 

Bristol, Tenn., (the Volunteer state) didn't exactly 
volunteer in his letter asking if I could scrounge 
up a passel of Georgia Tech tickets (I couldn't 
but tried). But he did say, paraphrasing his 
good friend Tennessee Ernie Ford, "If the Good 
Lord's willin' and the creeks don't rise, I'll see 
you at the 30th next June!" 
ERNIE KLING's Christmas card indicated he might lead a group this way from the Cape Kennedy area if he isn't moon-bound or such then. Also got a card from CHUCK DALY from Dublin, Ireland where he ^vas looking at a college for his daughters Kelly and Sharon. What an alibi! And what a wonderful way to train for the Reunion! He says the sports fan there has strong feelings about the Michigan State tie— yet! Tell us about it in June, Chuck. 
MEL LAMBRECHT, the old badger bom Merrill, Wis. who became a Buckeye, sent a card saying he had to give up as Civilian AF Chief of F-4 Phantom Project office because of a slight heart attack in August. He is back at Wright-F^ttcrson (new address is 3649 Greenbay Dr., Dayton, Ohio) and hopes to return lor the 30-year Reunion. 
Which reminds me that the Grim Reaper has 

joined the argument about why all of us should 
return next June if we possibly can. I have 
three death notices this time, the most yet. 
MILTON EISERT '39, who stayed on to get his 

master's at ND, died May 26. He leaves his 
family at 56 Eastwood Rd., Groton, Coim. Hilt 
came from Erie, Pa. At the same time word was also received that FRED SIEPIETOWSKI, 12 Overiook St., Whitinsvillc, Mass., had died. 
Christinas cheer became a choke when a letter came in December from the wife of JOHN BEER with the shocking news that John had died sud­denly of a cerebral hemmorage Oct. 30. John, who sat next to me and TOM BOHEN and CHUCK BEASLEY in many classes for four years, was an accountant for Continental Assurance Co. in Chicago. He lived at 12519 S. Stewart Ave. and leaves his wife Marion and five children, Carol, Marilyn, John Jr., Kathleen and Theresa. He was a great friend, a dedicated ND roan and one who always brought joy to any gathering— truly an exemplary Christian. Let us remember Johnny and Milt and Fred in our prayers. 

We've lost some of our good friends forever. However, there are some with whom we have lost contact and would like your help in locating. Anyone know where JIM BURGESS, CHARLEY CALVERT, JOHN FRANCIS CLIFFORD, TOM CROWLEY, RAY HANOUSEK or DICK JEN­NEY are? Or JOHN McCLURG, JIM MUL­HERN—who welcomed me first to the Campus— JACK O'LEARY, ED SNELL or PAUL VAN WAGNER, the ole first baseman? If you do, send their addresses to me and urge them to drop me a line. Then start talking up our BIG RETURN next June, 
JOSEPH E. HANNAN 
1804 GREENWOOD DR. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46614 

1939 
ROBERT G. SANFORD 
233 W. CENTRAL AVE. 
LOMBARD, ILL. 60148 

1940 
From prosperity to complete poverty of Class news covers the position of your secretary. No doubt all of you are wiorking so hard on the SUMMA campaign that you just do not have time to drop me a line. I hope you men of '40 realize that we have not missed a single issue of ALUMNUS for quite some time; please help main­tain this performance. 
Called j m DONOGHUE for news, hot all IK 

couU confinn ma hit visit with VINCE Ue-
ALOON '34 at the ND Center in Kane. Uy wife 
Mary La and I aba enjoyed A^nce's company 
and fine cooperatiaa in Nonmbtt. While in NY 
on n very brief stop, I caBed Dr. ED MC­
LAUGHLIN and just had time to Sod out that lie 
was still in Lynbnok, LL 
Change of aiklrrw notices have been received 

on many of the men of '40. CoL GEORGE 
HAGGERTY fatmi Arlii«toa, Va. to Dedhan, 
Mass; Or. BEN SAEU bvm Tdedo, <Mua to 
Artesia, CaSf.; HUGH CDONNELL faorn 
Levittown, NY to Annadale, Va.; BC» BERTANY 
from Napenille to Chkago, HL ; HAL BOWLER 
from JoEet, HL to CMd Foige, Va. (never did 
get to nsit Hal when he was in oar area); JUAN 
CINTRON from South Bend to Uadto Gty; 
JOE THESING bom FULLERTON, CaGL to 
Hinsdak, HL; BURT HALL boa Littleton, Cob. 
to Englewood, Idaho; ORVILLE FOSTER tnm 
WICHITA Falls, Tex. to Long Beach, CiEf.: 
JOHN McINTYRE bo a Washington, DC to Ai^ 
Engton, Va.; ED NEALE bora Long Bcadi to 
Cypress, Calif.; FRED STUBBINS from Honnhhi 
to La Jolla, Calif.; and JOSEPH KNAUS from 
Wayne, NY to Oiinda, Cafit 
Might as well mention that I have completed 

my master's flegree program at De Rml U. and 
win rccrive my liBA. in Feb. Ify wife is ao 
longer a "coB^ wklow." 
It is certainly sad when your secretary reports 

sews about hinwelf. Le^s change that and get 
the news to Shorty. 
JAMES F. SPELUfAN 
SPELLMAN k BfAODEN 
342 MADISON AVE. 

1941 
NEW YORK. N.Y. 10017 
WnXIAM M. mCKEY 
P.O. BOX aG40A 

1942 
CHICAGO, ILL. Goeao 

RAYMOND J. DONOVAN is the new Indiana 
editor of the Somlk Btmd Tribume. He was for­
merly in the sports dept. He joined the Tribmnt 
in 19S2 as Michigan editor after serving three 
years as director of public infoemation at ND. 
The Miami-ND game wedend at Key Biscayne 

was populated from our Class by LARRY KELLY 
and Us family, TOM WALKER and his family 
and BILL HICKEY and his bmily. 
1943 
JACK WIGGINS il2S BRIGGS AVE. 
Sir -^ 
LA CRESCEMTA, CAUF. 91214 

A note from FRED GORE, Chicago insurance tycoon: a few months ago Bishop BfARK Mc-GRATH of our Class stopped in Ft. Laudodale. Bishop McGrath is in Santiago de Veraguas, Rinama. Our daughter, Maureen, is a beshmaa at St. Mary's this year. 
DICK KELLY writes bom Terre Bante: that he and DICK McOORMICK are sharpening up their golf game to take im aB comers Reunion weekend. They wanned iq> by mnning the Teire Haute Country dub's annual member-guest tour­nament. Kelly says he has seen JACK O'MAL­LEY and JIM FAGAN; both praaise to make the 25th Reunion. 
JOHN McHALE, adnunisttator in the baseball amimisnoneis office, sent a cUpping bimi the AtlanU GtOTtm BtJUtim stating that SAM iSc-QUAID had been appointed chaiiman of the Archdiocesan Board of Edncation. Sam has also served as pres. xA the Sena Chb. 
The Cleveland flmm DttUr featured JACK GILLIGAN in its newsmaker article recently. Gilligan looms as a contender in the npcooias Democratic primazT against Sen. Frank Tjmchc Jade now seDs insunmrr and b serving hk aeventk term on the Qnciimati City Coundl. 
Time is getting shorter! Make your plans and 
reservations NOW to attend the 23th Class Re­union. Write, wire or phone your fellow class­mates urging attendance! 
1944 
JOSEPH A. NEUFELD 
P.O. BOX 853 
GREEN B.\Y, XaS. 54305 
The due date for the ALUMNUS seems to come 
much more rapidly than ever in tlic past. Here 
another one is at hand. Your secretary knows 
that a column b due approximately every two 
months. Yet the old procrastinator doesn't want 
to admit it until the very last possible moment. 
It is with much sorrow that we report the 
death in mid-October of another '44cr—^JAMES G. 
PHILLIPOFF of South Bend. Sincere s>Tnpa:hy 
is extended to his widow and his family. The list 
of the faithful departed is growing. That is only 
natural because in another year 25 years will have 
passed since most '44ers left the Campus. 
Tlie \vzr in Vietnam has been brought closer to every M4cr with the sad announcement by the Dept. of Defense that Lt. Col. KELLY COOK is missing in action from a flying mission over N. Vietnam. During the past year Kelly and his family moved to the West coast and from there he was assigned to duty in Vietnam. The tragic news was received here in Green Bay by Dr. Robert Brault, brother of Kelly's wife Joanne. No additional information has been given. Mean­while, let us all pray for his safe return to his wife and family wio reside at 1229 L>Tiwood Dr., Novato, Calif. 
A recent note from ED SOCHALSKI, Detroit businessman, announced he had decided to retire from his business, had sold his assets and had rTCcIianged his property and now, as he stated, "was free as a bird in the trees.** In fact he plans to do some traveling throughout the countn'j perhaps dropping in on fellow '44ers, before settling down in an entirely new and different area. 
A brief note from BILL TALBOT ^vhich arrived the day after the previous column had gone to press mentioned that at the SUMM-A kickoff in NY, in addition to himself, the follow­ing '44ers were present: JACK "ROCKY" SUL­LIVAN, BILL O'CONNOR, "BLACK JOHN" MURPHY, TONY EARLEY, CHUCK KOEGL­ER. JIM SHERIDAN, FRANK ENGLISH and J.ACK WHITELY. Black John sent the almost identical list but since Bill writes less frequently he will be given credit for this ncvrt item. 
Black John Murphy wTOtc from Denver vhcrc he was attending a national board meeting of the American Society for Personnel Administration of which he is a \'ice-pres. and director. The Murphys had their usual late summer \-acation at FARRELL QUINLAN's Indian Cave Lodge at Sunapee, NH. He mentioned the Quinlans left shortly thereafter for a two-month European sojourn. 
Recently it was ^-our secretary's good fortune to be in the NYC area. Although time did not permit personal contacts with any *44crs, telephone \^its with four of the most faithful correspondents were made. It really was great talking with HARRY YEATES, BILL TALBOT, Black John Murphy and GEORGE BARISCILLO. The latter two thought it a most opportune time to plan the big 25th but such details had to be postponed until a meeting tentatively scheduled for June. Meanwhile, forward any suggestions for that gala event to the co-chairmen TOM ROLFS or Bbck 
John. __^^______^^^^^^^ 
FRANK M. LINEHAN 
P.O. BOX 5000 
BINGHAMTON, N.Y. I390Z 
1945 
PETER P. RICHISKI 
6 ROBIN PLACE 
OLD GREENWICH, CONN. 06870 
1946 
Rt. Rev. ISsgi. WILLIAM BARRY died Nov. 16, 1967 in St. Francis Hosp., Miami Beach. In 1946 M^r. BARRY received an honorary doctor of laws degree from ND . 
Congratulations are in order to JOHN F. Mc-DERMOTT JR who recently received an appoint­ment as the Dayton area district mgr. for Good­year's Aviation Pii>ducts Div. He will assume responsibility for handling Goodyear contacts with the USAF Systems and Logistics Commands at Wri^t-Patterson AFB, Ohio. 
I hope aU of you and your families had a most pleasant and ex^oyable holiday season. That's it {or tliis mat. 
Jack Mites ^47 
A TRIBUTE 
T
HE SALK vaccine came too late for 
Jack Miles '47. A little more than 
two years after his graduation and just 
a week before his wedding day, he was 
struck down by polio. At the time he 
was covering the polio epidemic as The 
South Bend Tribune's bureau manager 
in St. Joseph-Benton Harbor, Mich. 
Jack Miles was never to walk again. For several months he was in an iron lung, and the 18 years that remained to him were spent in a wheelchair. Jack never complained though. He was too busy operating an insurance business from his home, writing articles for youth and sports publications, ser\'ing as sec­retary and columnist for the Class of '47 and occasionally writing letters to the editor. He was a confirmed conservative. 
Feb. 23, 1952 in the chapel of Saint Joseph's Hospital, Jack took as his bride Beatrice Machek (whom he called "Betty"), the girl he was to have mar­ried nearly two and a half years earlier. In his wife, his mother, his sister and his father (Frank Miles '22), Jack was especially blessed. Every Sunday Jack was at Mass at Saint Anthony's Church with Betty maneuvering him and his wheelchair in and out of the car and up to the Communion rail. 
Naturally, Jack couldn't travel very far, but wherever ND men gathered in the South Bend area, his dad saw to it that he was there: at football and basketball games, at Alumni dinners and football banquets and, above all, at the five-year Class Reunions. His de­votion was recognized by the St. Joseph Valley ND Club which named him "Man of the Year." 
Jack took his job as Class of '47 sec­retary seriously. When it was time to write a column, he called to see what classmates we might have seen or heard from lately. If the Class of '47 didn't turn out in great numbers for Reunions, it wasn't Jack's fault. No ND Class ever had a more dedicated and hard­working secretary. At its 20th Reunion last June, Jack was just about the first to arrive and the last to leave. In his wheelchair he led his classmates in the Reunion parade to the banquet in the North Dining Hall. Later in the evening he was visibly moved when the men of '47 presented him with a plaque in ap­preciation of his outstanding service. 
Jan. 7 in the same hospital where he was married 15 years earlier. Jack Miles, at the age of 40, succumbed to a respiratory infection which his polio-scarred lungs could not overcome. He was buried three days later from St. Joseph's parish where he grew up, with a host of his friends from ND and the city assisting at a Mass offered by Rev. Thomas McNally CSC. At week's end, at the request of the Class of '47, a Mass was said for Jack in Sacred Heart Church on the Campus by Rev. Joseph Fey CSC, a classmate and Uni­versity chaplain. 
Jack Miles was not as se\'erely stricken, perhaps, as Fred Suite or Van Wallace whose iron lungs and stretchers were so often seen at ND in years gone by. But he had the same "guts," the same way of serving others instead of dwelling on his own misfortunes. My guess is that Jack Miles, even in eter­nity, is still working for Notre Dame and Notre Dame men. If I know Jack, he'll be keeping track of the Class of '47 especially and won't really rest until all of them have turned up for the "big reimion." After all, that's the one that counts. —JIM MURPHY '47 
Jack's family has asked the Afasses and other remembrances be used to aid the missionary efforts of Brother Ivan Dolan CSC 'f7. These may be sent directly to Bro. Ivan (St. Greg' cry's High Schoolt Luxml Bazar, Dacca, East Pakistan) or to Betty Miles (3218 Bentley Lane, South Bend). 

-| A J fy Jack Miles zvas a class secretary par excellence. Not only did he meet XJ/Tl/ deadlines, but he put some speciid punch in every column. His writing re­
flected his enthusiasm for life. One of his classmates and fellow journalists pays tribute to Jack in the story above. And we are printing below his last column for the ALUMNUS — unchanged though some of the comments are especially poignant since his untimely death. We who knew and appreciated Jack Miles' special talent will miss 
him.—Editor, The ALUMNUS. 
You join me, I know, in expressing sympathy to JOHN BEAU (BEAURTVAGE) on the Sept. 29 death of his wife Rosemary and in praying for the repose of her soul. 
**It has been a difficult time," John writes, '*for our children, Anne, IS, David, 16, and Pierre, 13. But they seem to be adjusting pretty well. It vras fortunate that Anne earlier had decided to transfer from Loretto Heights Col. in Denver to the U. of Nebraska so her being home this year has been a great help to me. 
"We are all getting along pretty weD, consider­ing that none of us had ever boiled water before. All sorts of hidden talents have appeared . • • seamstress, ironers and pressers, cooks, bottle wtlshers. . . ." 
A Requiem ^iass was offered on the Campus for her and John also sent a check to bolster our meager Mass fund. Please don't wait 'til you are brushed by the wings of the dark angel before you contribute a dollar or more. 
You'll remember we offered a small award to the classmate who came closest on his question­naire to the actual win-loss and total point records of the '67 Irish footballers. 
JIM GUIHAN of Amsterdam, NY »>-as one of several who hit the B-2 mark, but his 346 total point prediction was closest to the actual 337. We lent him a lettered blue crew T-shirt from the N D bookstore in time for Christmas. 
Others right on the 8-2 figure were Dr. TOM SNYDER of Dewitt, NY; CAS REJENT of Walton, Mich.; DICK PROSCHE of Bridgevillc, Pa.; ED KRUPA of Hint, Mich.; JACK E.\SLEY 

of Schenectady, NY; ART DIAMOND of South 
Bend; JACK "KEWPIE" BARRETT of Louis­
viUe, Ky.; ED MUELLER of Alexandria, Va.; 
and three "mystery men": A 5'U'* 200-poundcr 
from Washington, DC (JACK ALEXANDER?). 
a 5*10" 180-lb. father of five from Burlington, 
Vt. (JIM DONLAN?) and a 5'U" 190-15. father 
of seven from Kalamazoo. 
DAN HUNTOON, Avis licensee wce-prcs. in 

Southern Calif., recently announced his *^No. Two 
car rental firm** will sponsor pre-game and post-
game shows for N D football, LA Lakers basket­
ball and LA Kings hockey broadcasts. 
JIM ABBOTT has been promoted to assistant 

general engineer at the Colorado Springs main 
office of the Holly Sugar Corp. He and his wife 
Eleanorc have six children. 
Bro. KERIC DEVER CSC has been transferred 

from Archbishop Curley HS in Miami to Holy 
Cross School in New Orleans. 
Inflation—galloping, creeping and jogging— con­

tinues to plague our economy, but delation has 
struck this kickoff kolumn for the new year. 
That ain*t right. And the only way you can 
inflate the space reserved for the Class of '47 
is to contribute some news of your own activities 
or accomplishments. There's an extra day this 
year. Use it, or at least part of it, to drop a 
line or two this way. 
1948 
GEORGE J. KEENAN 
177 ROLLING HILLS RD. 
CLIFTON. N.J. 07013 

For the last edition of the ALUMNUS we had so 
much news we had a carr>'ovcr for this issue. 
Here is what was left off and it gives us a pretty 
good start for what %vouId have been a leaa 
column: 
"HONEST" TOM HERBERT the furniture magnate of Auburn, N.V. confirms his reservation for the 20th Reunion and looks forward to seeing his old cronies — BENNIE SHEERAN, MOOSE COONEY, TONY MISTRETTA, LEO COSTEL­LO. BUNKY REGAN, FRANK KEENAN and JOE KELLER, and looks forward to a real bang-up time. With this group, there couldn't be any other kind of a time! "CHUCK" CUCULLU volunteers to help make the 20th Reunion a big success. He wants the southern Cook County area as his territory to rcunionizc. Chuck, you've got it. You'll be hearing more about it. BOB Le-TOURNEAU is now in Chicago where he is in the agency accounting dcpt. of the Zurich-American Ins. Co. Bob definitely plans to attend the Reunion next June. 
FRANK KAYSER has moved from Cambridge, Kfass. to Ames, Iowa ^vllerc he is now associated with Iowa State U. JIM McCUTCHEON of Mbrai, Fla. and JIM FORD from Alexandria, Va. where are you? The mail comes back un­claimed. LEO COSTELLO has just been ap­pointed by the mayor of Paterson, N.J. to fill a vacancy on the city's Board of Finance. Leo is also past pres. of the Klwanis Club and Passaic County Savings and Loan League. He is presently exec. VP and mgr. of the Lakeview Savings and Loan Assn. in Paterson. In addition to being a past pres., executive VP, an Elk and a Knight, he is also a husband and father of seven c:hildrcn. 
CARL LOOK is still in Detroit and writes that the last time he arrived on Campus for the Re­union his reservation Iiad been lost so he is making it early this time. Carl prefers the rec­tor's room in Alumni Hall in case anyone else has any ideas. First in, first served and Carl has it. Of course if our Reunion hall is St. Ed's it will be a long \valk over to where the action is. Carl is going to be our Detroit dis. dir. and will be handling oil the car pools, flights, convoys, etc out of this area. 
The new mall brings us word that the mother of JOHN F. McCORMICK of Cincinnati passed away in November. Mass was offered at ND Dec. 2 by Rev. Ferdinand Brown CSC. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 
FRANTC J. CULHANE has been elected to the new position of vicc-pres. of administration at Hart, Schaffner & Marx. He is well suited for this as he was previously vicc-pres. of Genesco Inc. 
JOHN A. McGRATH, a fuel industry attorney, died Oct. 10 after a heart attack. He was executive vice-pres. of Fuels Research Council, Inc. and was a partner in the law firm of Gosnell, Durkin & McGrath. A past pres. of the ND Club of Washington, he ^vas their man of the year in '64. 
THOMAS M. KERRIGAN, a former FBI agent who posed as a convict in an effort to discover who blinded labor columnist Victor Ricsel, died Oct. 28 while watching a football game on TV at his office at the Spa Restaurant on US 20 near Chesterton. Sur\'ivors include his widow Rosetta, three sons and two daughters. 
JOSEPH F. DILLON has been named gen. mgr. of Jessup Door Co., Dowagiac, Mich. He is also a director of the American Bank and Trust Co., South Bend, and of the Upson Co., Lockport, NY. He Is a member of the lay board of St. Joseph's Hosp. and is St. Joseph County Chairman of the USO. He is a past director and secretary of the Indiana Club and a past pres. of the ND Club of St. Joseph Valley. He is presently a member of the Unlverslty*s Preadent's Committee. 
BRUCE E. HILL has been named vice-pres. of marketing. Inorganic Chemicals DIv. of OUa-Mathicson Chemical Corp. 
In the change of address mail we note that TOM CARMODY has moved from Gallup, NM. to Walnut Creek. Calif., as he was transferred to the Martinez Refinery of the Shell Oil Co. Cmdr. LEARY KREISSEL has been transferred from RI and Is now down In Norfolk, Va. The mail for GEORGE BARTUSKA which used to be returned can now he forwtirdcd to his home at 1203 Alpine Dr. in South Bend. Here he was lost for a while and found right in the front yard. 
No word this past month about who's coming to the Reunion but, after the holiday wear and tear is out of the way, we will start our campaign to get ever>'onc we can lined up. Recently a galley of names was mailed to everyone. Now is the chance to find out who is close at hand and arrange for a group to travel together. In this way it is less costly and also gets groups together. 
LEO L. AVESLEY 155 DRIFTWOOD LANE 
ROCHESTER. N.Y. 14617 

1949 
JOHN W. THORNTON 4400 MONSERRATE ST. 
COIUL GABLES, FLA. 33146 

1950 
Since we ended up with a reputable season by beating Miami in the Orange Bowl 24-22, I can report the rest of our plans here for that weekend w'ent ofT successfully. We had about 2600 Alumni and sub\%'ay alumni at the Dcauville Hotel the evening before for a fine dance and rally. Among those from our Class in Miami for the game were JERRY JOHNSON, DICK BRODEUR, RUSS SKALL, PAUL SCHAEFER, LARRY COUTRE and HUGH MULLIGAN. BILL KIRSCHNER was also In the area. 
In January I join a litigation firm known as Stephens, Demos, Afagill and Thornton, 720 Biscaync Bldg., Miami. SMITH A. FUNK has been appointed mgr., product development, with the Jim Walter Corp. JOHN CUNNINGHAM was recently appointed executive vice-pres. of the NY Stock Exchange. He and his wife Dorothy and their seven children now live in Ogden Dunes. 
JOHN REEDY, prof, of biology at Niagara U., recently spoke at a seminar on radiation biology at De Veaux School, Nbgara Falls. JAMES A. WHALEN JR has joined the Chicago Regional Service office of the Cnim and Foster Group of Insurance companies as special agent in the downtown Chicago area. JOEL BULLARD recently wras elected vice-pres. and director of all the Whitcomb and Keller companies. He is the former pres. of Charles £. Bullard Co. His new office will finance and develop investment proper­ties. 
Had a nice note from PHIL AQUINO from Utica, NY where he is teaching American history and government and has spent time in Europe in the Experiment In International Living and in the Soviet Union with the Citizens Exchange. RON SA.\FORD reports from Asbury Park. While in Annapolis recently, he had a nice viat with Captain Danis USN our former commanding officer for NROTC at ND. He also spotted FRANK JACOBS and enjoyed seeing JACK TULLY and DICK CORD.4SCO at a ND cocktail party. 
Wlule in Boston in October 1 could hear the cheers from Fenway Pirk for CARL YASTRZEM­SKI as I passed DICK McGOLDRlCK*s Hand­schumaker Frankfurts sign. I had a nice visit mth Dick and also while visiting my brother-in­law. Rev. TOM FEELEY CSC at the Holy Cross Seminary, Stone Hill Col. North Easton, Mass., I saw our classmate Rev. DAVID ARTHUR, academic dean of Stone Hill College; Rev. BOB GRIFFIN, a prefect at ND; Rev. CH.ARLES WALLEN, pastor. Sacred Heart Church, Ben­nington, Vt.; Rev. TED SCHWARTZ, principal at ND HS. Bridgeport, Conn. 
I also had teports that DICK FR-ANKEL is doing well in Asheville, NC. Speaking of the NROTC, FATHER HESBURGH told me Dec. 10 that he has all of those NROTC cruise photo­graphs on the wall in his office. 
A Kfass was said by Rev. Ferdinand Brown CSC. Nov. 4. 1967 on Campus for JOHN HYL.'VND LLB *50, who died Oct. 8, 1967, while residing at 612 W. Main St., Endicott, NY. 
May you all have a happy and successful 1S68. 
m
JAMES JENNINGS BORG-WARNER CORP. 
200 S. MICHIGAN AVE. 

CHICAGO, ILL. 60604 The consensus of those attending our small re­union after the Michigan State gome was that next year we should obtain a space with a lower noise level and somewhat more privacy. Suggcsetions from all our classmates will be welcomed. 
At the reunion (j.g.) was FRANK SUR­PREN.ANT who went to Georgetown and received his law degree in 1957. Frank is practicing law In Pittsburgh with the NLRB. His address is 114 Sleepy Hollow Rd., Pittsburgh, 15216. Frank is paired with GENE DEBORTOLI on the SUM^L^ drive and this dynamic duo should shake down their classmates with no trouble. 
Therese and JACK POWELL came down from Minneapolis, where they live at 1941 Rhode Island Ave. N.. Minneapolis, Minn. 55427. Jack is with the Tension Envelope Co. and recently went up north from Kansas. 
Also on hand were Maryann and JACK YOUNG of Erie, Pa. They have taken up trailering and anybody in the country can expect a visit from Jack and Maryann. Fat and HOBE TAYLOR were there, looking for^v-ard to their trip to the hst two games. Therese and JOHN BUCKLEY were in attendance, as were Barbara and CHARLIE 0*DONNELL. Of course Mary and BOB CLEMENCY, BIIHe and TOM KIGIN, Irene and JIM LACESA, Mary Jean and JOE RIGALI and Klary Lou and I were also there. 
We met Charlie's brother, FATHER JOE, em­erging from the *55 reunion. He is employed as a blackrobe with the Holy Cross Mission Band and it seems they have a couple of retreat vacancies left for this year. If a sufficient number of couples are interested in a retreat weekend we could have a minor reunion of sorts in April or Kfay or in the fall. Father Joe mentioned that on these weekends we can talk back to him and argue with each other. We could not have a large party every night (or eii'cn a smaU one). A variation on this theme is available for the fall, in which the program commences Thursday evening and ends Saturday morning prior to a home football game. We could then see the game and return for welfare and recreation (with Ubadons) after the game and stay at the retreat house Saturday night. If anyone is interested in 
such a happening, either in April or Klay or in the fall of this year, please drop me a note within ten days to indicate your interest. This would also give the retreat master a chance to send a little advance information regarding specific subjects to be discussed so that we could arrive better prepared. 
Spoke to BILL CAREY in Chicago. Bill married the former Helen Kuhn, a St. Clary's lass. They have BUI (12), Joe (10). and Elizabeth (7). Bill is vice-pres. of Delicious Cookie Co. in Chi­cago and is so busy we*U probably ne\-cr get him to the philosophy seminar. The Carey family lives at 260 Shadowood Lane, Northfield, HI. 60062. 
Have to close now. JACK MULDOON has already moved for my impeachment as he believes these hallowed pages should not be used for proselytizing regarding matters (such as elms' tianity) unrelated to a university; he feels we should stick to the more serious topics such as football and beer-drinlung. though he is still an honorary vice-pres. of the WCTU. 
23 

1952 
WILLUM B. KING 613 E. DONMOYER AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46614 

Winging in from Vietnam is the class pride of the 
skies. Maj. JOHN L. WAGNER has just com­
pleted 200 combat missions in an F-4 fighter and 
is now U\-ing like a civilian in Washington, DC 
with his wife and two children, Amy (7) and 
"MBA (4). He is presently assigned to \rar plans 
in the Pentagon. John says he and 5,000 other 
N D fans saw the Fighting Irish on film at Cam 
Ranh Bay. He would like to hear from some of 
the guys in Walsh Hall and some of the old 
"jock-strap*' buddies. 
JOHN RIPPE and his wife Rita should be 

pretty well settled by now in their new home at 
23616 Via Beguine, Valencia, Calif. A native of 
California for one year, JOHN is now credit 
manager of Thomas Organ Co., maker of Vox­
guitars, etc. The family includes four children, 
Joan (13), Stephen (10}, Connie (9) and Charlie 
(3/.). 
GEORGE W. BROWN burst into town with his usual gay manner for the Michigan State game. George is torn between selling insurance and uTiting so he does both. Recently be had published nationally a fine article on the art of insurance selling. 
"P.AT" NEVILLE, the eminent purveyor of medical equipment, zan into JOHN O'BRIEN ^ID 
1953 
W. F. "BUD" STUHLDREHER 11006 JE.AN RD. S.E. 
HUNTSVILLE, ALA. 35803 

It's a pleasure to sit down and knock this column out—plenty of yellow cards! Keep them coming. 
Here's some news from BOB SEBOLD: "I'm still with the same company. Republic Aviation Div. of Fairchild-Hiller Corp. in sales and contracts. }kfanaged to get to the Michigan State game. Met my wife Lorraine in Chicago on the way home from one of my monthly trips to California (Sacramento) and we drove down to South Bend for the game. Haven't seen the Campus since 1957. Sure looks great. Saw DAN JAMES at the game. He and his \%ife arc ex­pecting their seventh. Lorraine and I have seven children ranging from ten years old to six months (two girls and five boys.)" Thanks, Bob. His address is 48 Bay Dr. E., Huntington, NY. 
Also heard from ED O'CONNOR (108 Dan-berry Road, Reisterstou*n, &fd.): "Greetings to all history majors. We were a small but close-knit group. Since leading ND in '53 I spent Anny service in Japan. For the last six yeais I have been with the Sodol Security Admin, in Baltimore. ^farried to Jeanne Clary of Syracuse, NY. We are the parents of a nice big guy—who will surely make the freshman football team about 1985. Had a nice vidt with roommate ERNIE BUCKLEY and his family in Harrisbui^, Pa. recently. Regards." 
ED BUCZKIEWICZ wrote: **You nuspelled my name recently. (Sorry, Ed, I hate to do that.) Saw HARRY SHAY in New Haven, Conn, where he is head coach at Southern Conn. State U. He says hello to STAN STASCH and GENE SUL­LIVAN in Chicago. Stopped in Erie, Pa. and missed JOHN McCORMICK but saw his brother, RITCHIE '55. My wife Patricia and son Tommy took vacation through New England. Tell JOHN BAKER, Boston, to stay home; called him, no answer." Ed's address: 2702 N. Lc Claire, Chi­cago, 60639. 
Very sorry to hear that HAROLD SWEET's wife Catherine died in Sept. We will remember her in our prayers, Harold. Also heard that JIM GALLAGHER'S father died in October. He, too, will be remembered, GaL 
in Syracuse where he is an authority on infectious 
diseases. John's name is the last on the directory 
at the hospital but he makes up for it by having 
the largest letters. 
LOUIE GLEASON has given up the life of a merchant and now has dedicated himself tt> teaching future scholars high above US Route 1 in Danvers, Mass. Hey, Louis, what ever hap­pened to that red Jaguar? 
DON "KINSEY" KINNEY is stiU a real-live bachelor. He has dedicated his life to fast cars and women—not in that order though. BctMreen vacations and trips to the Buffalo Bills football games, he manages to sell, swap or approve real estate in upstate New York. His play and work area extends from Erie, Pa. to Albany—sort of an interstate playboy. 
ROBERT BLIGH writes from Newburgh, NY that he is in his second year as asst. principal at North jr. high. He received his master's at Teachers Col., Columbia U. and now is working on a professional diploma. Bob married the former Patricia Glecson who graduated from St. Elizabeth Col. in Morristoun, NJ. They have three children Kathleen (8), P^trida (5) and Bobby (3). 
PETE RILEY and JACK DEGAN give regards but no news yet. Ode to "BILLY JOE" SANTINI: Remember that guy you used to room with? IklAT DUGGAN 
Here's some news about our classmates: 
Maj. LEWIS G. KIRCHNER a transport pilot 

is now on duty at Pleiku AB, Vietnam as a 
member of the Pacific AF, America's overseas 
air arm in Southeast Asia, the Far East and the 
Pacific. Before going to Vietnam he attended 
the U. of Wisconsin under the AF Institute of 
Technology education prog. JOSEPH T. O'NEILL 
has been selected as the Outstanding Young Man 
of the City of St. I^ul, Minn, as well as one 
of the 10 outstanding young men of the State. 
JOHN T. ELSON has been named a senior editor 
of Time magazine. 
TERRENCE L. BRTIT has joined Signal Oil 

and Gas Co. in its southwestern dept. at Midland, 
Tex. JOHN CONNELLY has been named referee 
in bankruptcy for the dist. of Minnesota. At the 
time of his appointment he w*as a partner in the 
St. Paul law firm of Bundlie, Kelly and Torrison 
and for several years prior to that served as asst. 
US Attorney for the Dist. of Minnesota. JOHN 
R. MULLEN is a new member of the Somerset (NJ) County Park Commission and has also been elected to the board of directors of Ethicon Inc. and is VP in charge of personnel. Dr. JOHN CARROLL SWART JR has been ap­pointed to the faculty of Ball State U. as an assoc. prof, in the dept. of general business ad­ministration. Rev. ERNEST BARTELL CSC, ND econ. dept., was one of the 100 **cxpcrts" in­vited to the conference in Washington to discuss the future of Catholic Education, Nov. 5-lG. He has a book about ready to come out from the N D Press. 
PAKOS D. BARDIS has published "Amphic­tiony: The First United Nations" in The Inter­national Journal of Legal Research, June, 1967. HUBERT R. HEICHELHEIM JR b an assoc prof, of chemical engineering at Texas Tech. He and his wife Jan have five boys and twt> giris. 
Rev. CONAN PATRICK MULROONEY O. Praem. was ordained in the St. Norbert Abbey Church in De Pcre, Wis. Sept. 21. JOHN RALPH CORYN was killed in the crash of a light plane in rural Saskatchewan Oct. 6. An Illinois Appellate Court Judge, he was with four businessmen on a hunting and fishing expedition. Judge Coryn was the youngest member of the Illinois Appellate Court when he was elected to the bench in 1964 at the age of 35. 
J. J. WILCZYNSKI has been a member of the development of the LASER-ranging system at the Avionic Controls Dept. which began in 1963 at GE, Binghamton, NY. The principle of the LASER (the name means 'Xight Amplification through Stimulated Emission of Radiation") was demonstrated first in 1960 and by 1962 a woricable application for this new principle had been created by the development engineer. 
WILLlA&f GEORGE SOMMER has received the degree of MSE in systems engineering and operations research from U. of Pa. 
Received a short note from Dr. BOB VISIN­TINE, 1012 McKeever Ave., Hayw-ard, CaL 94541: "Am practicing Internal Medicine here, vrhere my wife and our two children and I have has really .irrived. Along with his wife and three 
children, he has recently acquired a French maid 
who is ''living in" mth the family. Have you 
ever heard of such affluence? To think you lued 
to drink beer with him at LaFortune. 
Advance notice to JACK BARRY in Edmonton, 

ASterta, Canada: GERRY CASHMAN is coming 
your way come the spring thaw to check out your 
Caterpiliar tractors. "Ger" was ill for three weeks 
this ^ 1 but managed to "escape the jaws of 
death"—this is his line—^and has now fully re­
cov^ed. So it's on to Canada and that great 
f!a^a'^•aw booze. 
GERRY MURPHY dropped in for the Navy 

game with son Gerry Jr (11). Gerry is haunting 
the courts of Evanston and Chicago and recently 
settled a handsome daim. He still loves ND, the 
Navy and Maine. His lovely wife Pat couldn't 
make it in for the game so she served as baby­
atter for the other four Murphy children. 
JACK D. ANGUS, who was named chairman 

of Creighton U.'s Dept. of sociology this year 
has written an article entitled "The Golden 
Years—Tarnished, or Glowing?" in the University 
magaane. 
ROBERT D . KNOEBEL has been appointed 

midw^stem regional mgr. by Pfizer chem. div. 
for its food and beverage department in Chicago. 
JOHN J. REEDY, prof, of biology at Niagara 
U., recently qwke at a seminar on radiation 
biology at Devcaux School, Niagara Falls, NY. 
lived for the past seven years." 
BILL McALPINE of 2800 N.E.41 St., Pompano Beach, Fla. writes: * *These yellow cards are a good idea—I finally took the hint. Don't see too many of the others of '53, so can only tell you a little about myself. Moved to Florida from Rochester, NY in 1956, worked for a consulting engineer for three years, then spent most of the rest of the time since with a manufacturer of timber connectors. Am now in partnership with a former assodate and have our own business manufacturing timber connectors—it's a year old now and looks good. Married Ccdle I^le y in 1962 and have three children: Mary, Brian, Julie. I recommend Florida living!!" 
TOM MURPHY used a yellow^ card also: "Liv­ing in Michigan City, Ind. since '59 with wife Patricia; see all home ND games during football season—great! Our company is engaged in con­structing several industrial complexes in Michigan, Indiana and Illinois along with the new Port of Indiana being built at Bums Harbor at the south­west tip of Lake Michigan. Hello to all ex-Glee Clubbers from 1949-53 era." Tom's address: 3121 Lake Shore Dr., Michigan City. 
Enjoyed hearing from AL DE CRANE: Round­ing out the third year working in NYC with Texaco and living here in Bronxville, NY (209 Fondficld Rd. W.) with the rix youngsters. Have seen some of the Class. DAVE FOX was in from Chicago and kindly stopped by the office. BD X McMURRAY moved to Bronxville and we see one another as commuters. NORM FELTES was in from Emory U. for a meeting at Columbia 
U. and we had a fine visit. JERRY TRAVIS, inth Dupont in Wilmington, wras in just last week aiu) we had a luncheon visit. BILL REIDY and BILL BYRD are also in the area, across the Connecticutt line, and we have had several %vonderful evenings." 
PETE KUCHAREZUH of 304 S.lfith St.. AUentown, Pa. dropped a line: "I'll follow the steps listed on the front of the yellow card. New address: empIo>>ed by Reuben Donnelly. StiU involved in some real estate commercial develofmient outnde of AUentown. Planning on being at Reunion in '68. Just received note from my uncle *Ziggy,' the dining hall man we all com­plained to —." Thanks, Pete; speaking of **Zig­gy" surdy brings back some memories—remember mystery meat, monkey puke, bird, etc.? 
I'll close with thu yellow card from BILL LESSO, 2505 Roxmoor Dr., Austin, Tex. 78723: "I have just received my PhD from Case Institute of Technology in Cleveland and am now an assoc:. prof, in the dept. of mech. engineering, U. of Texas, teaching courses in Operations Research. If any of the members of the Class are ever in Austin, y*a]l drop by the ranch, ya hear!" 
StiU have some yeUow cards which I'U include next column; don't forget the Reunion next June! 
1954 
HILTON J. BEAUDINF. 
21 SIGNAL HILL BLVD. 
E. ST. LOUIS. ILL. GZ203 
KEEFE '35 FOLEY '37 
Congrats 
William C Keefe '35, formerly finan­cial vice-president, is now president of Panliandle Eastern Pipe Line Co., one of the nation's lai^est natural gas transmission companies. Keefe prac­ticed law until he joined Panhandle as assistant general attorney in 1950. He has supervised more than $350 mil­lion of securities offerings by the com­pany in the last six years. Keefe and other executive officers will be moving to Houston in a move to put all ad­ministrative ofiSces closer to the com­pany's operations area. 
Paul E. Foley '37, chairman of the board, has been named president and chief executive ofiBcer of McCann-Erickson Inc., one of the world's largest advertising agencies. Foley, na­tional public relations and events chair­man for the SUMMA drive, started his writing career as a $25-a-week police reporter for the Chicago Amer­ican. During World War H he was 

1955 
PAUL FULLMER 
1922 LARKDALE DR. 
GLENVIEW, ILL. 60023 

Hats off to the many troops who jammed the Shamrock Room in the Morris Inn after that satisfying win over Michigan State. It was great to see Rev. JIM SHERER again after 12 years. Father Jim was in to preach at all the Masses at Sacred Heart the next day before leaving for a teaching assignment at Holy Cross Col. in Pakistan. 
Michigan was well represented at the soiree. ED PREIN (4991 BluJf NE, Grand Rapids) is a con­sulting engineer. He has two children. DICK CONDIT (24729 Mulberry, Southfield), an at­torney, has four boys and a girl. Old reliable JIM C.\HILL was on deck. He has a boy and girl. BOB BREZEN'SKI (Huntington Dr., Detroit), a bachelor, is with Chrysler. JOHN POWERS (1500 W. Washtcnane, Lansing), a labor relations specialist with Oldsmobile, has five children. 
Big JIM BROUGHTON (2330 Ashhy Rd., Trenton), a service gen. mgr. with United Motors, has two youngsters. NEAL MASON (21917 Leyte, Farmington), who has a Chrj-sler-Plymouth agency, is kept busy by ax children. JIM STEVENS (17400 Huntington, Detroit), who has his own real estate business, has two toddlers. BERNIE McCLOREY (34919 Wood Dr., Livonia), who still claims he is the youngest in the Class, is an attorney with two boys and a girl on the home front. 
The East also was w^ll represented at the party. BILL LYNCH (GoIJ Course Rd., Rome NY), another of our young company presidents, has a boy and a girL FRED DE LANY_ (111 Southwest Way, Camillus, NY), a sales engineer, is in the sweepstakes with seven children. TOM HARTZELL (62 Lundsdou-ne Lane, Rochester, NY), a lawyer with four children, would like to hear from the happy wanderer, JOE SAUNDERS. DICK SCHERPEREEL (601 Anthony Ave., Bloomsburg, Pa.), a prof, at the state college there, has two children. JERRY FROEHLICH (109 Bayard, New Haven, Conn.), a chemist with 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 
THOMPSON '41 DILLON '48 

I ALUMNI IN THE NEWS 
chief of the news bureau in Turkey for the US Office of War Information. He joined McCann-Erickson in 1955 and has been editor-in-chief of eveiy* thing his agency publishes. 
Robert B. Thompson '41 has been 
named second vice-president of Manu­facturers National Bank of Detroit He joined the bank in 1959 after nine years as a systems analyst with Ford Motor Co. He is treasurer of the Detroit Purchasing Agents Assoc, and a mem­ber of the Detroit Club of Notre Dame. 
Joseph F. Dillon '48 has been named general manager of Jessup Door Co., Dowagiac, Mich. Dillon was previously manager of Great Lakes Distributing Corp. of South Bend. He is the im­mediate past president and a director of the National Building Material Dis­tributors Assoc, and a trustee of the National Association of Wholesalers. The Jessup plant at Dowagiac is one 
UniRoyal, has four "troops." DON GELS and STEVE PREVOZNIK drove in together from Philadelphia. DICK CALLAHAN (30 Cardigan Rd., Toronto), ad mgr. for United Investment Services, may have won the long distance award. Dick has a boy and a girl. 
From the Southwest came JOHN HOBBS (3025 Charing Cross Rd., Oklahoma City), secretaty­treasurcr of Southern Coffee Restaurant Supply Co., who has live children; and BOB DOLAN (3032 Rossmorc, Oklahoma City), who has four boys and two girls. 
From the Midwest came DON FREUND (6516 Field Ct., Crystal Lake, 111.), a CPA, who has tw» girls and a hoy; SLACK STEWART (8006 Larch La., Evansville, Ind.), asst. gen. Mgr. of the local paper and proud Dad of four children, who reports that DAVE KILKEARY has two children and is with GE in Downington, Ru; JIM HESBURGH (1329 E. Washington, South Bend), vice-pres. of international relations for Whcela­brator, who has four girls and a hoy; FRANK BURKE (935 Claybum Dr., Fort Wayne), CPA manager for Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery, who has four grade schoolers; MAURY CIC­CIARELLI (5934 Roxbury Ln., Peoria), prcs. of Peoria Industrial Piping Co., who has three sons and two daughters; JIM BARRY (5061 N. Lake Dr., Milwaukee), proprietor of his own industrial real estate firm, who has two children; DICK BURKE (922 William, River Forest, lU.), an attorney in the Windy City, who has a boy and giri; LOU MONTEEL (809 N. MontgaU, Kansas City, Mo.), a bachelor in the supermarket bu»« ness; PETE RITTEN (5050 Colfax So., Min­neapolis), a commodities broker who has five bouncy youngsters; MIKE DUCEY (5200 S. Blackstone, Chicago), a graduate student; JACK EVARD (24th & Franklin, Tell City, Ind.), an insurance agent, who has three children; and EMMET CASSIDY (8944 S. Bishop, Chicago), a supervisory engineer for Peoples Gas Co., who has a little boy. 
Other faces in the crowd too busy to rign the register were JIM TOOHEY, TOM GALLIGAN, 
HIU' « FAUON'48 

of the nation** laigett piodncen o( louvered and panded folding and swinging doon. 
Dr. Bruce E. H I *48 has been named vice-pteadent of marketing for the in­organic materiab division of Olin Mathieson Chemical Corp. Br. Hill, former director of marketing for the division, joined Olin in 1951 as an engineer and in 1964 was promoted to general product manager for the divi­sion. He and his wife and their three sons live in Chappaqna, NY. 
John J. Fallon '48 is the new pted­dent of the Missouri State Chamber of Commerce. A partner in the law firm of Fallon, Gufitey & Jenkins in Kansas City, he has served as a member <^ the chamber's executive committee and board of directors and is chairman of the Missouri State Chamber Social Legislation Council. In announcing his election, the organization stated Fallon "has made a tremendous contribution to the success of the organization in recent years through devoted service and counsel in behalf of the business­men of Missouri." 
TOM CAREY, LOU ZEFRAN, JACK FlYNN, JERRY PRASSAS, JOHN WEITHERS, PAUL ROMWEBER, RICK HICKS, BILL MOONEY and DICK GABERK. Rev. JOE COONNELL was the first priest there so he appointed himself official rhaH=*in for the day. He's retreat master at Fatima Retreat House on Campus. 
Ran into TED LAUGHLIN at an earlier game. He's an OB man at Fort Walter Beach, Fla. Ted married a pretty lady MD and they have five children. Saw JOHN SENNETT, who is in the steel business in Ohio, the same day. 
The stork has been active in Chkago. JERRY BRANSFIELD welcomed his foorth—two of each for the banister. TOM HAYES now has five with the addition of a little girl. PAIH. PFOHL and PHIL SHERIDAN are prood papas of fittle giris.' TOM BARNICLE. who a m the real estate dept. of the Foodmaker company that operates the Jack-In-The-Box drive-ins, also has a new little gal in the household. ED FOX (2020 Alamo Dr., Monterey Ruk, CaSf.), a busy attorney in southern Califomia, greeted hil second daughter in September. 
Condoknces to FRED GALIONE on the death of his father. A memorial Mass was offered on Campus Dec. 2. 
Condolences to FRED GALIONE on the death of his father. A memorial Mast mas offered on Campus Dec. 2. 
AMEEL RASHID was one ot those mdndky doctors who got plucked during the year by Uncle Sam. Amcel is a captain i s the Anny sta­tioned at Fort Lewis, Wash. Bis wife and three children are with him. Secdved a card from AL COWLES and his wife, Betty, who were doing their Christmas shtqiinng on duty-free St. Thomas ("Would you bdieve Beefeateix for $2?") They planned to meet CHARLIE NAJJAR in AtlanU tm the Tech game. 
Notes from the international fiont—Would yon believe that DICK REAMER has his U D worldng back in the States? He's at 17 Hntland PL, St. Lotus. FRANK TONINI can be reached at Edif. Aiichuna, Apto. 12 B, Av. Avib Snr., 
J. B. Farreil ^44 

WELL, WATER IS HIS BUSINESS AND HE'S KEEPING IT CLEAN 
C
HILDREN in Santee, Calif, are swim­ming in "renovated" water and people are eating fish caught in lakes comprised only of "renovated" water. And Dr. J. B. Farrell '44 says we'll be seeing—but not drinking—more of the same someday soon. _ 
As chief chemical engineer on the staff of the Cincinnati Water Research Laboratory, part of the Federal Water Pollution Control Administration, he is working on control of water pollu­tion and making possible the reuse of waste waters. 
Dr. Farrell left his desk at Manhat­tan College in NYC to join the re­search staff last July and he finds his 
Altaminl, Caracas, South America; GENE 
LESMEZ at Carrera 18, 79-17, Bogota, Columbia, 
South America; ENRIQUE SOL, Avcnida I.a 
Capilla No. 412, Colonia San Bcnita, San SaK-ador, 
El Salvador, Central America; AL ALVAREZ, 
Avcnida La CapiUa No. 432, Colonia San Benito, 
San Salvador, El Salvador; CHARLIE KLEE, 
Box 1844, Quarry Heights, Canal Zone; Rev. 
JOHN KEEFE, Box 214, Fort Portal, Uganda, 
East Africa. JOHN KEHN is back from England 
and gets his mail at P. O. Box 208, Roselle, NJ. 
On the military front, TOM O'H.'MIA now is 
stationed at Shaw AFB, SC (363 TRW Class 
67-D); TOM QUINN at 1st Logistical Command 
Engineer, APO, San Francisco; JOHN ROBERTS 
at 2750lh Air Base Wing, Box 2683, Wright 
Patterson AFB, Ohio. 
Men on the move include F. X. NEWMAN 
(1337 Meridene Dr., Balumore), PHIL WILKEN 
(7401 Barr Circle, Dayton), DAVE HOENE 
(5704 Ridgeu-ood Dr., Western Springs, III.), 
BILL BIRMINGHAM (1727 York Rd., Luter­
villc, Md.), MARTy MAHRT (301 N. 11th St., 
Montevideo, Minn.). 
Good to see some new faces at Chicago's Organ­ization '55 meeting. Brcolcing bread with the group were DAN BURKE, BILL BRETT, PAUL DWYER and BILL CLEMEN'TS. TIM NORTON was on hand for the last time. He's leaving for Europe on an advertising assignment. Our next meeting is Ihlarch 19. 
TOM ilAGILL and LARRY BUCKLEY, our coaches in residence in Miami, managed to give us heart failure with their handling of tliat final game. 
FRANK LOLLI has been elected a Wce-pres. of Hogan & Farwell, a Chicago real estate firm. ED ORTH has been named supervisor of the rate department's loan research activities by Southern Services Inc., service organization of the Southern Company system. He is chairman of the Birmingham Chapter of the Association for Computing Machinery. JIM CORCORAN re­cently was elected pres. of the Illinois Bar Officers Conference. He is editor of the wills and tnists section of the Illinois Bar Journal. BILL VOOR has t}cen appointed to the Governor's Commission on Law Enforcement and Adminis­tration of Justice. JIM PORCARI, Council of Social Agencies housing director and former 
new work fascinating. "The assignment is breathtaking," he says. "The mission is to provide economic solutions to these problems in their many variations, in all cases before crisis conditions are at hand. The group I serve is all people of the nation. Who could want for better motivation?" 
The Cincinnati lab has many ac­complishments to its credit including demonstrating the feasibility of taking waste water from a city and returning it to its original purity. "The methods are economically attractive even now in some of the water-short parts of the US," according to Dr. Farrell. 
Once a teacher at ND (1947-49), Dr. Farrell in his new job is mainly concerned with the ultimate disposal of the wastes produced by water ren­ovation processes. He explains that "concentrated inorganic and organic solid and liquid wastes are produced in substantial quantities by all water treatment processes and economical means must be found for their dis­
Rochester Housing Authority executive director, 
has joined Metropolitan Rochester Foundation 
Inc., the nonprofit organization for middle-income 
housing. 
Rev. Joe O'Donnell reports he had dinner with 
CARL PETERS, his wife and three children while 
in San Diego. Carl is still with Convair. Sr. M. 
CELESTINE O'CONNOR is teaching at the 
reading center at Nazareth (Mich.) Col. 
Dr. ROBERT QUIMBY has been named the new principal at Muesscl School in South Bend. He has been principal at Booth Tarldngton School here. ROBERT SLAUSON principal of Brown and Lydick schools the last two years has been appointed principal of Harrison School, South Bend. DON MERDIAN, presently an engineer in the tech. dcpt. plastics and resins div. of Sheet Chemical Co., has been promoted to senior engi­neer. DAVE HOENE, area supervisor for the tech. dept. of Belle Works of the du Pont Corp. at Chattanooga, b going to the industrial chemi­cals sales div. of the industrial and biochemicals dcpt. at Wilmington, Del. Rev. JAMES S. BLANTZ CSC, asst. pastor at St. Patrick's in South Bend, has placed first in three areas of competition at the annual convention of the International Brotherhood of Magicians. 
GUY PIERCE and wife Pat SMC'56 have been living in Arizona for five and a half yean where he is with Sears and has just been trans­ferred to rogr. of their store in Safford. Guy has been very active in Junior Achievement, Jaycecs, Lions and a lay lector at Sunday lilass. They have five lively Pierces; Joan 10, Karen 8, Dwight 6, Ann 4 and Susan 1. Pat's brother LOU CENTLIVRE and wife Gail were recent visitors in their valley. Lou is with McCann-Erikson ad agency in NYC, has two children. JIM SIEGER writes that since he was spotlighted in the ALUM­NUS they've won a few more major awards with TV documentaries, including the Ohio State Award and the New York Film Festival. 
•4 A r A EUGENE O'CONNOR 1 Urk n COSGROVE & O'CONNOR Xww U 656 ELUCOTT SQ. BLDG. 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 14203 Twas reminiscent of the '55 grid season as An'l Army played some great football, but—^alas— experienced some frustrating moments en route to the 8-2 season. '55 Irish back, DICK FITZ­

posal." Currently such means include pipelines to the ocean, disposal in deep weUs and incineration. Dr. Farrell is directing research and initiating con­tracts with industry and municipalities for new methods of disposing of these wastes. 
Commenting on the national problem of water pollution. Dr. Farrell said, "A somewhat ex^gerated statement is made that there is no water shortage, there is just a shortage of clean water. There is much truth here. Renovation of waste water and subsequent direct recycle to a drinking water supply is unlikely in the near future." 
However, there are projects like the swimming pool in California and the fishing lakes made of renovated water. These are done with the full knowledge and permission of health authorities. "Use of renovated water will come about, but slowly, and in ways which will not be esthetically offensive," Dr. Farrell reassures us. 
GERALD, and wife Sally enjoyed the Navy game 
weekend away from their son and daughter in 
Aspen, Colo, where Dick is in the real estate 
business. They enjoyed their first ^isit in a 
decade with Peggy and JACK KEGALEY and 
other South Bend-Chicago friends. Also dodging 
the blizzard that was Micbiana's misfortune that 
afternoon were HOWIE WESTRICK and P.AUL 
BEREZNY from Chicago suburbs. Rae and RENO 
MASINI took time off from their N. Milwaukee 
Ave. (Chicago) Alipio's Restaurant to enjoy the 
Sorin and Badin Hall frivolities. 
MALCOMB "BILL" BURNETT joined JIM 
MASSEY and me in the University Club for the 
fourth quarter telecast of the game. Hopefully, 
Mary and Mai Burnett will be parents of a fifth 
deduction by the end of 1967. Mai's doing well 
with his Chicago loop law practice. The AIasse>*s 
are back after a year at MIT; Jim is now acting 
head of the electrical engineering dept. at ND 
and Kathryn is kept busy on Napolean Blvd. with 
the four boys. 

JULIO E. VECARRONDO JR of Metro-po^tan Builders in Santurce, PR and his wife and mother of six, NelUe, took in their first game since "the good ole days." Julio was on a working tour of the Midwest visiting some sup­plier plants; he was glad to hear that fellow fencer, DON TODD (Tadrowski) is opening a second tie shop soon west of Chicago. The Todds just had their third child this past summer and the tie busness at Ford City has been great! Also at the Michigan State game were BILL STOTZER and DENNIS POWERS from Peoria, Foundation Clas! Agent JOHN FANNON from Wilmette, 111., GORDON DI RENZO of lU in South Bend and BOB COSGROVE. 
Canteen Corp. became the fortunate employer of DON SCHAEFFER Sept. 1. After completing a preliminary training phase, Don, Julie and the kids will probably be re-located from their oouth Holland, 111. home. PAUL KEARNEY reported the birth of niunbcr five—Joseph Paul— this past summer and also announced that he's in corporate law practice with Fort Howard Paper and is living at 461 W. Briar Lane, Green Bay, Wise 
With the much appreciated cooperation of NORB NYTRYCH and the Peter Shannon CPA film, the Class-Roster was published in November 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1W8 FEBRUARY 

for those living in the Chicago area. We asked for additions and/or corrections to the roster so we can pass along word of quarterly meetings (the next one will be in mid-January). PAT CRADDOCK immediately responded that he lives at 8232 N. Kenneth in Skokie, lU. JIM FIN­NEGAN had kind words and the news that he*s now with Cole of California (swim suits) and lives at 416 Braeside Dr. in ^lington Heights, in. RICHARD L. MEAGHER says he Hves in the same northeast suburban area: 647 N. Hawk in Palatine. BOB GEIMAN has been helping to organize the '56 Law grads, and it's hoped they'll be joining us for our informal quarterlies. MASON SULLIVAN was quick to let us know his law ofEce number should be corrected. 
Almost forgot: the 50-yard-line at the Navy game also held ROLLIE BORNHOLDT (who promised to write) and the HENRY DiXONs (who said we'd get a long epistle that week). 
1957 
GEORGE W. GROBLE 111 WEST WASHINGTON ST. 
CHICAGO, ILL. 60602 

Many thanlcs to all who have kept up the supply lines of information. I have had little difficulty in filling the column. Please keep the floiv coming. I guarantee that I'll get it all in the column as soon as space permits. A Happy New Year to all. 
JOE BOSSE reports out of Buffalo that he and his wife Joan would like to see some old faces on their way through. Joe's son, Joe Jr., is following in Dad's footsteps out there and creating mayhem on the junior gridirons. 
JOE REICH passed through Chicago on his way to the SC game and reported on behalf of the Western interests: JOE NEWHOFF spent some time in Denver on business and he and JOE REICH made some traditional collect calls to the East Coast gang. JOE NEWHOFF is prospering in the meat packing business and also in family production. He and wife Nancy account for four children. JACK BRANDT has joined up with a Las Vegas Savings & Loan and I have an inquiry out to see if they give loans on sure things. BOB MAIR is in his final year of pa­thology residency in Denver and took a bride about one year ago. STEVE JOHNSON and his wife Ann have migrated to Denver where he is legal counsel for an insurance company. The GEORGE STRAKE family has lippcd to five. SAM RIZZO is with the oil tycoons now and works hard to keep that depletion allowance on the books. TOM McMURTRY was married in September and 
1958 
ARTHUR L. ROULE, JR. 
102 "I" ST. 
L.APORTE, IND. 46350 

The news for this fiist edition of 196S is as follou3: 
JIM BRADY (19596 Orchard St., South Bend) is a lecturer at l U regional Campus in South Bend and is working tou-ard completion of his doctoral requirements at ND. Jim is married to the former Sheila Ann Hartney and has one son. Jim reports that TOM LYNCH is married, is liring near Philadelphia and is employed by Whitman Chocolate Co. 
TOM O'REGAN (7321 N. Honore St., Chicago, HI. 60626) reports the birth of his first child, a son, bom Sept. 26, 1967. 
Congratulations are also due to BILL DON­OVAN on the arrival of his fifth son, bom Sept. 28, 1967. Bill now lives in Orange, Conn, and is production mgr. for Schick, a div. of Eveisharp, Inc. The Donovans' address is 438 Derhy-Milford Rd., Orange, Conn. 06477, 
JOH.N KLEMMER (29 Davenport Ave., New Rochelle, NY 10805) was transferred last summer by his employer. Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. from Chicago to NY for two years. John's wife is the former Suzanne Starshak of St. Mary's and Catholic U. The Klemmers have one son who is one year old. 
BERNIE COOPER (5903 Eastview St., India­napolis 46250) has been in the tire business since finishing a tour with the Marines in 1960. Bemic is married and has four children. 
BOB GUSHING, LCDR, USNR (1134 Iroquois SE, Grand Rapids, Mich. 49506) is now CO of the Naral Reserve Training Center in Grand Rapids. Bob and his family, including wife Sheila and three sons, have called Califomia home for the post four and a half years while Bob served with the amphibious forces in the Pacific. Bob would like to hear from TOM ERBS, GARY COOPER and ED CLAIR. 
JIM BRENNAN (4 Stone Hill Rd, N. Attleboto, Mass. 02760) and his wife PriscUla now have four 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 
Hank was qiute proud of their twin sons bom this past siunmer and reports that he's keeping busy as Lee County, lU. State's Attorney. Mark Bums accosted the three of us on behalf of SUMMA but we disappeared in the blizzard during the second half. 
While nsiting Freeport during the Thanks­giving weekend, I visited with JIM FITZSIM­MONS who receives mail at RR 2 in that city. After 11 years \vith Alicro Switch Corp., Fits is a products manager and was busying himsdf at the time with his four heirs. He reported the PAUL BERRlTTINIs are quite luppy in Dixon with their two beautiful chosen daughters. PauFs Budweiser business has been going great. BILL GORMAN continues with speech therapy at the DLxon State Hosp. PAT JONES keeps hard and long hours operating the Jones Mortuary in Dixon. 
Mary Ann and I celebrated my mother's wed-
continues with Lockheed Aircraft and resides in Lancaster, Calif. 
TOM GUILFOILE reports out of Fond Da Lac, Wis., that his insurance business is going well and he and his wife Jeanne are keeping on their toes with four little Guilfoile boys running around their home now. TOM O'BRIEN is now Rev. Christian O'Brien of the Norbertine Fathers and teaching at Abbot Penning HS in Green Bay. NICK CONLON is practicing law in Green, Bay and is pres. of the N D Club. 
Rev. RAY LESCHER is at St. Stanislaus m Kankakee, III. JOHN SUTTNER is enhising bis accounting business quarters in Chilton, Wis. MIKE AHERN is still controlling matters in Fond Du Lac. 
BILL McGOWAN reports that he, DON STUHLDREHER and BILL MOONEY made the Purdue game from Indianapolis and ran into big JIM FINNEGAN and JOHN SLEVIN. BUI re­ports he is active in the SUMMA drive and that DENNY TROESTER has drafted the following men from our Class to chairman their local areas: 
JIM COUGHLIN—Denver; JACK FOLKS— Riverhead, NY; CONNIE LANE—St. Louis; BILL McGOWAN—Indianapolis; BERT JkflLLER—San Jose, Calif.; TOM MULCAHY — Milwaukee; MIKE SOPHY—Tucson; DAN STECKBECK— Fort Wayne; GENE YURGEALITIS—Webster, NY. 
BILL GERARD reports in that he has set up house in LaGrange Park, III. and he and wife Anne added number three child in August. Bill 
children. Jim is sales mgr. and vicc-prcs. of the Jeweled Cross Co., a manufacturer of religious gift articles. Jim reports D.AVE McMAHON has si:c diildren and has been promoted to NJ sales mgr for General Mills. BOB DUFFY and his wife live in Mineola, NY where he is a branch mgr. for the Long Island Lighting Co. BOB McHALE and his wife are living in Cumberland, RI where Bob is with the Paw-tucket Ready Mixed Con­crete Co. Jim Brennan also reports that DICK COYNE will be married next spring and Rev. DICK DEMERS is a diocesan priest in Fall River Diocese. 
HARRY BLANTON writes he is beginning his third year as asst. dean of the college of arts and sciences at Loyola U. in Chicago. Harry, his wife and six children live in Glcnview. He also reports that BOB EARLY is living in Phoenix. 
RICHARD CONSIDINE (2200 Colston Dr. Silver Spring, Md.) is at the Naval Medical Research Institute in Bethcsda, Md. He received his PhD in microbiology from ND last June. 
GERALD "TINY" RYAN (2658 S. Crandon, Chicago 60649) is with Continental Casualty. Last summer Tiny, his wife and two childrcn spent their vacation in NY, where they saw several classmates, including JIM FEENEY and BOB (fiag oa TlunkiginBS Dttf at Gordoa's Kestan­rant, operated ^ the pareats of GENE GOit-DON. Gene Moved mto m nor home «i& Us wife and daughters last year m Aurora. Qar son Kevin's aduevcmcats la Cob Scoutiag a» affected me that I got eoaned nt o haag the Pack Coamittce Cfaaifana; thafs qaite a <fiffereat task for ne—my pfcriooi ifiHiliiiy csqicneacci weren't along tlie ai M Smeu Hope yon and yours eaioyed a happf and Ueaed CfciiHuiM, and 
may yoor entire 19GB be hcaldiy aad pnMperaos. Let us knonr «dio wrote over Am ftoEdiTi; send along inctnret if yoa w3L 
—JOHN KANION '56 
1956 lAW 

JAMES M. CORGOSAN JS, a pncdi3i« lawyer in Evanston, was recently elected ptcs. of the H L Bar Officers Cooference. He is editor of the wiOs and trusts section of the H L Bar JonmaL 
also reports that FRANK HAKKISON taa K­tutned bom the ricrrjieil, as previooslf repocted some years ago, and is Eviag in Dallas and ii a broker with Walston ft Co. Frank and Anne liave five children. PAUL V. GIUTE is the first liiD­time reference libfarian at the U. of lilaiiie. 
During the past football season, I had the good fortune in seeing some of the aU classmates. At the California game were JACK CDROBINAK and wife Rita, DON GIBBS, GREG SULLIVAN and wife; JIM CULLINAN at Fkmine; GUS LUPKE and MATT WEISS at niimns; JIM MORSE and TOM CORRIGAN and wife Peg at MSU. Both Jim and Tom have seven children. Congiatulations to Jim for another season of ciijoyable announdng of the games. 
This fan I also had the good fortune of being admitted to the PAT SHEERIN Sports Fan Club and Pat conducted trips to La&yette and Atlanta this year. At AtlanU I booked np with LOU LONCARIC aid his wife F^t. They report two sons. Lou is a broker with E. F. Hutton & Co. and lunning the N D Cliib ilown that way. We also ran into pres. JOHN MrMF.F.L and spouse; JACK CASEY; MOORE McDONOUGH; T.O. DOYLE, DIXIE LEWIS and DICK DUNLAY. Thanks, Lou, for the good time in a great dty. 
BILL DEVLIN reports out of Oak Lawn that aU is well and two children are nour on his roster. Our condolences to K. J. PHELAN for the recent death of his father. 
Congratulations to Deimy Troester and vnCs on their new daughter bom in October. 
DUFFY. VINCE HOm , a alsD with Con­tinental Casualty in Chicago^ 
LAWRENCE F. BIEBUYCK was married last November to the foxmer Miss Baxban Jean Rice. Larry is with Ka%meer Co. in Niles, Mich., as an industrial designer. FRANCIS J. HEN­NINGER is teaching at the U. of Dayton. He received his MA and PhD degrees at the U. of Fa. in '62 and '65 respectively. His address is 6301 Hemmgway Rd, Dayton 45424. ARCH W. FEES JR has completed the orientation- course for officers of the USAF Med Service at Sheppard AFB, Tex. 
ROBERT B. BRZEZINSKI, who is married and the father of three sons, has been piactidog law since '62. He attended the U. of Mich. Law SchooL He is mtb the firm of Kozdroj ft Bizeanski in Demit. JOHN A. BOTTIGLIONE MD has opened an o£Sce with an associate for the practice of pediatrics in Oxon Hill, Md. 
THOMAS NILAN FOGARTY has lecenUy Tcceivcd a PhD in metallurgy and materials science from Lehigh U. MARTIN J. ALLEN JR was recently appointed to the newly created post of vicc-pres. and director of marketing for Old Kent Bank ft Trust Co. He is a director of the ND Qub of Grand Rapids. 
THOMAS D. O'HAIRE reports the foOowing: after graduation he enlisted in the Navy OCS; He was commissioned in Feb. '61 and assigned to the USS Canberra, a cmiser. His ship was sent on a nnmd-the-world goodwill tour. Tom was assigned to this ship for three years during which time he was promoted to Lt. (jg). In Jan. '63 he was transfened to San Fiandsco as an instructor at the Naval Schools Command, Treasure Island. In Feb. '64 he was promoted to lieutenant and in Jan. '65 was asagned to the USS Tortuga. This October he was transferred to Port Huron, Mich, as CO of a naval reserve training center. Tom is married and has two children. He would like to hear from BOB PROBST. BERNIE GESSNER and JERRY REILLY. 
27 

CAHANEY '49 PARROTT '49 CUNNINGHAM '50 MINAHAN '51 NICHOLSON '52 MARTIN '54 
Congrats j ALUMNIIN THE NEWS 
G. Roger Cahaney '49 has been elected president of Sterling Movies Inc., one of the nation's leading spon­sored film distributors. Cahaney was also elected to the board of directors of Sterling Communications and was named a senior vice-president of that company. Sterling Movies has more than 250 corporate clients and Cahaney estimates the audiences that see its films each year exceed the nation's popidation. A Long Island resident, Csiianey b a member of the board of the Long Island Pro Arte Symphony Orchestra and the public relations advisory council of Hofstra U. He is a past president of the Farmingdale school board. 
Lawrence H. Parrott '49 has been elected president and a director of Mc­Dowell Manufacturing Co. Parrott joined McDowell in 1966 as assistant to the president and was most recently executive vice-president and general manager of the DuBois, Pa. firm which produces deep-drawn stampings and 

JOHN G.AGLIARDINI, 1814 10th St. W., Kirkland, Wash. 93033 is a contract administrator for the Boeing Co. with responsibilities in the development of weapon systems and has worked in research and development for the Afinutc Alan System. During his \-arious assignments he has been stationed at Vandcnbuig AFB in California and prior to signing on with Boeing Co. worked for RCA at Beale AFB where he was a systems anal>*st for the Titan Missile System. John is married and has two children. Mr. and Mrs. PHILIPP iLAERSCH, 141 Johnson St., Center-port, N.Y. 11721 are pleased to announce tlie birth of their first child, a son, Karl Afatthcw, on Sept. 13, 1967. 
Dr. JOSEPH GOLONKA, 395 Pincwood Dr., San l^fael, Calif. 94903 is a research associate in medicine at the US Public Health Service Hosp. in San Francisco. He completed a three-year residency in internal medicine at Albany Medical Center in '66. Joe is married and has five chil­dren. BILL CHESSON, 553 Bracbarton, Stcuben­villc, Ohio is with WSTV Radio in Stcubcnvllle as sports dir. and national sales mgr. Bill and his wife have two daughters and a son with an­other expected in February. GERRY GEN'OVESE, 1509 S. Redwood, Mt. Prospect, HI. is Chicago sales mgr. for the Joseph Gumeau Co., a wine and liquor importer. Gerry and his wife liavc two children. 
1959 
JOSEPH P. MULLIGAN 2680 LEHMAN RD., AFT. 42 
CINCINNATI. OHIO 45204 

TOM STEFFEL is an Air Force capt. and is m Tfaailand in computer installations at Khorat AFB. Mary Ann and BOB WETOSKA had child number two Aug. 22 (Bob's birthday} and named her Kathcrine Mary. Luckily, Mary Ann had the baby in time for Bob to catch the Bears' charter for Kansas City (a game which I missed by just one day). Bob's long-time fncnd and current sodology proL at ND, Dr. BOB VASOLI, is tlie godfather. JIM COLOSIMO finally had a boy, 
irrigation couplings. An authority on production and inventory control, he has served as a management constdtant in steel, foundry and automotive in­dustries. 
R. John Cunninsham '50 took over the post of executive vice-president of the New York Stock Exchange Feb. 1. Formerly senior vice-president of the Midwest Stock Exchange, Cunningham has been credited as the man who brought computer aid techniques to the Midwest Exchange. He is expected to devote much of his time in New York to improving the computer operation on the big board. 
Daniel F. Minahan '51 has been ap­pointed vice-president in charge of labor and industrial relations of the Phillips-Van Heusen Corp. He is a member of the Connecticut, NYC and American bar associations and is chair­man of the personnel relations com­mittee of the American Apparel Man­ufacturers' Assoc. Phillips-Van Heusen 

according to Bob, and BRONKO NAGURSKI JR has moved to St. Paul and is currendy employed by 3M. 
JIM DORSEY has been promoted to Army major at the Aberdeen Proving Ground, Md. where he is a student in the Student Officer Com­pany of the USA Ordnance Center and School. PAT TONER remained at ND after graduation and received an MS in ChcmE, then went to work for Union Carbide in Charleston, W. Va. for three yeans. While there, Pat married Carol in December of *62. He is now quality control supervisor at the Industrial Park of American C>'ananiid Bldg. Products Div. in Sanford, Me. The Toners' first child, Pat Jr., died shortly after birth. Lisa Marie is now a year old. Pat has had word from HUGH MURPHY. Hugh deserted bachelorhood last spring and the ^lurphys are in Dacca, East Pakistan, with AID. 
GEORGE ROSS has been traveling and sends the follouing report: "PAT CAWLEY '63 and I went to ftliami for the Thanksgiving break (George is at St. John's Scm., in Plymouth, Mich.) and talked with ART SHANNON, LEN TROTTA, TIM GEORGE, ART MURPHY and AL ECUYER. The first three arc in the Detroit area. Murph lives in ^lillon, Ikfass. and Al lives in Alontrcal. He says his French is poor even though he lived in Quebec. Perhaps that is why he is still single! JOHN EDWARDS was down from St. Louis. Ever^'one seemed to have a great time!" Knowing George, I'm sure they did. 
George also adds the following notes: FRED KLEIDERER and his &faureen now have a Fred Jr (this past summer) and they are living in Wilmette and Fred is working for a market research firm in Chi. JOHN PHILBIN and Judy bad their fourth child recently. NEIL BALL is still raising money for the diocese of Trenton and is living in the NJ countryside as a gentleman farmer or perhaps a hermit! 
3kIIKE COWLEY is currenUy working as a research scientist at He^vlett-P^ckard in Palo Alto, Calif, and he and Sharon had a little boy, David 
Corp. is a diversified manufacturer of men's, women's and boys' apparel and also operates 50 retail stores. 
Qarles L Nicholson '52, a territory sales manager for Johnson & Johnson's Health Care Division in New Bruns­wick, NJ, has been named Regional Man of the Year for the Atlantic sales region. The award was given in recog­nition of his leadership, initiative, team­work and sales performance and was presented at a company marketing con­ference in Hollywood, Fla. 
CapL Robert L Martin '54 
nailed his brass nameplate to the honor roll for F-105 Thunderchief pilots at Korat Royal Thai AFB, Thailand after completing his lOOth and final mission over North Vietnam. Capt. Martin flew the needle-nose supersonic fighter-bomber as a member of the 34th Tac­tical Fighter Squadron. He was com­missioned at ND through the ROTC program. 
Michael, Sept. 7 (child no. 1). JOHN H. FITZGERALD moved to Oklahoma City last &fay where be is asst. zone mgr for Top Value Enter­prises. He and Peggy were married June 13, 1959 and the children number three: Cathleen (Nov. '61), Teresa (April, '66) and Jeffcry (June '67). The Fitzgemlds live at 4601 N.W. 59th St. BILL BOHNSACK was ordained a priest May 23, 1964, after one year at Bcnet Latin School, Boston, and four years of theology at Mt. St. Mary's, Em­mitsburg, Md. Bill is assigned to St. Anthony parish in Trenton, NJ and is teaching high school as well as csirrying out the regular parish assign­ments. 
BILL WHALEY has reported from the ranks of "missing Alumni" and is living in Cambridge, Md, with wife Brenda and sons Michael (5), Thomas 
(3) and Steven (1). Bill was recently transferred from Racine, Wis. where he was corporate systems director of Western Publishing Co. to Cambridge where he has the position of plant mgr. Last summer the Whaleys vacationed at Lake Tahoe, LA and Las Vegas with ERNIE THOMAS and his wife Margo. RON BLOOM is now mgr. of central purchasing at Texas Instruments head­quarters in Dallas. Ron and P^ula have three children, Karen, Sean and Sarah, and live at 10716 Lathrop Dr.. Dallas (75229). 
JIM CONNELLY CSC is now in his third year as a prefect in Ca\'anaugh Hall where he began his N D career as a freshman. After ordina­tion, Jim returned to the Campus in September, 1965 and tat^ht undergraduate theology for a year. In September, '66 he entered the grad school as an MA candidate in history and hopes to have his degree in June. SCOTT BRADSHAW writes be would like to have made it back for the So. Cal. reunion but, unfortunately, the 4th Infantry Div. Artillery at Dragon Mt. near Pleiku kept him occupied. Scott was promoted to major Sept. 2& and is due back in the States in August, '6B, He adds he would enjoy hearing from any dassmates who care to write. Scott's address: Maj. S.W. Bradshaw, OFl 10189, HHB, 4th 
Infantry pivision Artillery, APO San Francisco %262. NICK DEMFSEY received hU MBA from the 

U. of Chicago in June, '67 and is working in the investment dept. of Northwestern U. Nick and wife Marilyn have one son. TOM McTERNAN married Pauline Capelli July 4, 1959 and Tom served six years with the OBBcc of Special In­vestigations, USAF, including two years in Turkey. Their first son, Kevin Piitrick, was born 10-19.63 in Ankara, Turkey. Second son John Michael was bora in Kenosha, Wis. 9-2-66. Tom is now employed by Robert W. Baird and Co. as a stock broker in Racine, Wis. JOHN H. MARTIN can now be found at 52 Linden Dr., Santa Claraj Calif. (95050). 
JERRY "BEAR" WOLF joined Ernst and 

Ernst in Cleveland when we graduated, l a 1966, 
subsequent to Jerry's becoming a CPA, he left 
£ & E and joined the Cleveland Clinic Founda­
tion as controller. The Foundation provides clin­
ical and hospital patient treatment and care and 
engages in research and educational activities. 
Jerry married the former Joyce Barton of Cleve­
land Aug. 7, 1960. They have three children, 
Kimberiy Ann, Christopher Brian and William 
James, ages 5, 3 and 1, and live in the suburb of 
Gar£eld Hgts. DICK SELCER was in Cincy 
during the winter recruiting the high school foot­
ball crop for Brown U. where he is asst. football 
coach. Dick and Merryl are living at no. 7 
Norfolk, Cranston, RI 45912 with Mike (7), 
Steve (6), Pat (4) and Connie (1). "Selc" 
reports he sees quite a few classmates around 
IVovidence and when he travels about the country. 
On a recent flight to Cincinnati, I met BOB 

PIER at the St. Louis airport and we flew 
together to Cincy. Bob is with Monsanto in the 
division that handles detergent raw materials 
outside the US and is living in Baldwin, Mo. Bob 
reports that twin brother PHIL PIER is finishing 
his residency in surgery at Milwaukee County 
Hosp. Phil and his wife have six children, in­
cluding two sets of twins! 
The Class extends its sympathy to PETE JANDRISEVrrS, to Pete's brother RUSS '64 and to JOHN KIEFER on the deaths of theit fathers. 
1960 
THOMAS J. O'CONNELI. 
3350 EVERETT RD. 
LAKE FOREST, ILL. 60015 

Reporter's Report . . . Shovel, shovel, shovel is what most people do with all the white flakes but one must overcome. The best way is to get oa top of it. Schtrssing season is in full swing so wax the sticks, get out from under and enjoy^ enjoy. 
Hindsight . . . Football season was quite suc­cessful all things considered. Once the Irish jelled, they met and mastered all challenges. We congratulate KEVIN HARDY '68. TOM SCHOEN '68 and Ara. 
Next year six home games and we promise ai formally announced reunion. It's not that we, aren't trying, rather that space is hard to come-by in the area. We have already requested space for next year! (PAUL PERONA come home.), 
Although the only announcement this year was at the ball game (MSU), we had one heck of a turnout at Irvin's Restaurant. Once again, ED BULLARD deserves tharrks for obtaining said space. 
The Headliners . . . Your reporter had to keep an eye on arrivals while gabbing and guzzling, so apologies to those unnoticed. The marrieds were there in full force: ED KENNEDYs, JOHN YOSTs, TERRY LALLYs, JIM STUCKOs, JIM GOULDs, HOOKER McDONALDs (newlywed at 38), FOX McDOUGALLs, MIKE McKEEs, MIKE KEARNS, BILL ROTHs, JIM BYRNEs, PETE GENIESSEs, DICK GELSONs, Paul Peronas. TOM HIRONS, DAVE WEBERs and BILL LESER and lovely Diane. (Boz b married?) 
Solos were Big JOHN CARRETTA, looking like a Mississippi gambler; MIKE HENDERSON; GEORGE RICHVALSKY with a doll named Heather; TOM MONYHAN; GREG ROGERS (who w-as to write); JOHN CHRISTEN (who charged in late but compensated by helping a few of us close the place); and DICK BECKENDORF in his always jovial glory. LARRY MARTIN and "poor old" MIKE DIVNEY (married Dec. 
30) were going to be chastised for not showing but they had a good excuse so we'll let it pass. 
About 26 out of 75 stayed for dinner, so all in all it was a "really big show." Wait till next year. Be forewarned—reunion will be Purdue Sept. 28 or NU Oct. 2 or 111. Oct. 19. Stay timed to this colimm for late developments (as usual). 
Once Over Quickly . . . TERRY LARKIN a 

still studying. Last summer at Stanford and now 
back at ND, prcfecting second floor Stanford in 
his spare time. JOHN DRESKA, if you're not 
receiving this magazine let me know! WARREN 
BAKER and Caryle, if you didn't receive a 
Christmas card it's because you never stay in one 
place long enough. JOHN PARKS, where is 
Justice, III.? 
Rev. KE.N REQUA CSC is in his second year 

at lU for PhD in English. PAUL BERETZ is in 
San Francisco, mit frau und zwei, as credit mgr. 
for Union Carbide. LARRY LEACH is in Dallas 
with Texas Instruments. He and Shele are 
". . . involved in St. Paul the Apostle parish 
(the one where the Paulist contract was dis­
continued with the Bishop—we aren't rabble 
rouseis)." An information postcard given to 
D. JERRY McGLYNN at So. Cal. game, filled out while standing at gate 14, reads: "RICK SALMON recently made marketing mgr. for Motorola in Far East. Ah So." (Personals: Thanks to St. Jude for all Alumni replies received. T.O'C.) 
Front and Center . . . TOM TORRI, alons with Joan, Teresa and Sarah, just completed MSEE at U. of Mich, and is still plugging away in spark plug div. for GM in systems and pro­grarrmiing. TIM NEEDLER, since war duty, has been a manufacturer's rep. for electronics in Indiana and Kentucky. ". . . have thus far eluded The aisle walk, but recently bought a house,. so the stage is set. Enter feminine lead." ED CORNELIA is in charge of production control and customer service, industrial prod. div. of Singer in Elizabeth, NJ. Thanks, Monica. Und last but not least, Hcrr Dr. NORB WEIGH abng with Chris, Stephanie, David and Christopher have left Tulane grad school and Harvard School of Public Health behind and heeded the call of industry. Fresendy working as a biochemist for Mcrrell Co., Cinncinati and as lab section head for study of obesity and diabetes. (Personals: You're welcome. St. Jude.) 
Tower of Babble . . . The standbys—BILL McCORAfICK, five ladies, one gentleman, stUl hustling for NY Tel. on LI. TOM PATCHEL in San F. as reg. sales mgr. for Farrington Mfg. Co. BRUCE COSSACCHI and tales of Seatde ND club parties where he, faithful trumpet, and O'FLOR take over the stage only to be removed by those not as Olympia-infected. GERRY I.ALLY with Dickson and Crcighton in NJ and **. . . JACK FEENY is asst. prosecutor in Hudson County. SAM AHTO practicing in Mor­ris County, NJ. JOHN WEGLINSKI with 
•Bendix in Colorado. KENT WELDON and JOE BOCK both in Flushing. Kent working on MBA and Joe for Fordham and doing grad work." 
JACK McKENNA takes time out from his West Coast travels to write. ". . . seven years vnlh the NY State Dept. of Mental Hygiene. As asst. dir. am responsible for recruitment and employee relations for 54,000 employees in 33 locations. Saising leprechauns like Kevin, Brian and Sharon in EInora. ROG BRUNELLI, Marine capt., teaching jungle warfare to the Army, has two of each. ROG BERNARDI, Army capt., due back soon, no troopers yet. BARRIE MAGUIRE, doing well in advertising in Phil., has two and one. FRES HOEY, MerriU Lynch in Phil., one each for he and Maudie. RON ZLOTNICK, with Todd div. of Burroughs, one girl for Nancy. DAN LYONS, chem. engr. with Koppers Co., one recent girl thanks to Mrs. Bcrnardi's sister, Ann. (Right! They're brothers-in-law.) WALT RUDGE, a neighbor, with Hallmark in upper NY, along with Nancy and three." (And that's the Badin Bulletin!) 
And Then I Wrote .. . And I'll do it again. Mrs. JAMES J. CARROLL of Clcvebnd, along with friends and neighbors, has organized the "J.J. Carroll Memorial Fund" with a $2500 donation. Funds to be used exclusively to provide support for Vietnamese orphanages near where Capt. Carroll was killed. 
The Deadline Dash . . . How to say it? Be it ever so humble there's no place like . . . My Old Kentucky Home! Around Derby time this year Louisville will be unlike any other time past or future. It will be the scene of a scene. Dr. MCALLISTER reports that Dr. JACK LANG will become two on May 12. Best Wishes. Hunch players check the forms. 
One of three legitimate Christmas cards re­ceived as of Dec. 12 was from, of all pbces, Tampa—SKIP EASTERLY and family. Thanks, Skip. Others were the HIRONS and LEO DILLING. Leo is with Union Carbide in Maryland, working the DC and So. Miss, area (?). He took the walk Feb. 10 with a femme he met on a lU trip. (See. note:. Reread first 
paragraph this column!) (You othen didn't mail 
eariy!) 
New Year's Resolution: Tins St. Fat's Day I 

am definitely not going to march in that sttiirid 
parade nor drink green beer! (HA!) As a nation, 
we are dedicated to keeping phyncally fit . . . 
and .parking as cloie to the itadinm as posdble. 
Support SUMHA. Until thaw, Ihte you. Caed 
MUe Fante. 
1960 lAVt 
JOHN A. DI NAROO 
m HINMAN AVENUE 
EVANSFON. ILLINOIS G02(S 

Aa in prior years, the bonge of the Law BIdg. was 
a good place for meeting some of you after the 
fooibaU games tins falL Mary Jane and HUGH 
McGUlRE appeared to personally prove that 
Hugh has resnifaced in Detroit. Among others 
viuting the lounge this fall were JOE MARINO, 
with whom the DiNardo's spent a fim week this 
summer in Washington; Mary Lou and JOHN 
BEGGAN; Mary Anne and TOM ERBS; and 
the JOHN R. SULLIVANs. 
Since my colimm first appeared, I ran into the 

following on various bimness trips: BOB HOUSE 
hosted a very enjoyable evening in NY in July. 
We tried to contact JOHN "FOGO" REILLY 
without success. TOM ERBS was pleased as we 
watched the Catdinalt beat the Cubs at Busch 
Sta^um in St. Louis in the thick of the pen­
nant race. 
JIH TAYLOR appeared at a legal seminar in 

Chicago, bringing along three members of the 
law dept. he heads at the C T Co. in Elkhart. 
And JON KUBIAK continues to work on acquisi­
tions and sectiridcs law problems at Maremount 
Corp. Ocasionally he has time to come across the 
street to have lunch with the writer. 
DICK COLLINS was seen after having lunch 

at the Bar Assn. here in Chicago. Being with 
accountants all day, be still has lunch with 
lawryers occasionally for entertaimnent. 
No one seems to have heard from LARRY 

WICHMANN, AL KAEUN, DON GARRITY, 
DON GARDNER, PAUL TITUS or MIKE 
BOSCO. 
1961 
WILLIAM HENNEGHAN 30556 SCKIVO DK. 
WAKKEN. MICH. 0092 

I hope everyone had a very happy holiday season. 
1 saw quite a few of our classmates down at the 
football games this iidl. It was quite a season and 
it seems the crowds at the game are getting 
bigger and bigger^—or am I ? (HA!) 
BOB HARVEY wrote and told me he was in 

Chicago this sununer at the wedding of ED 
GRE^IE. After Ed's honeymoon in Acapulco, he 
win resde in St. Joe, KGch. MK E KENNEDY 
was also at the wedding and he is working on his 
law degree at lovra U. Bob said he visited DICK 
NEELY in San Diego where he is working for 
the DA's office. 
OLLIE WILLIAMS is studying theology as a Holy Cross seminarian at Holy Cross College, Washington, DC. He wrote and told me that MARK THOMPSON received his PhD from the School of Industrial Relations at Cornell last August and is iHnv a Lt. in the Army. BILL LEHR, who received a law degree from George­town, is also in the Army stationed at Fort Story, Va. JAY WHITNEY is married and has a son. He is a project director working for Admiral Rickover. JIM RAINEY received a JD from Chicago, an MBA from MSU and is on the faculty now at MSU. Thanks for all the news, OUie. 
MIKE SWEET is working in Elkhart, Ind. for Williams Products in their cost acccounting dept. Mike and Marilyn were married in December 1963 and they have a daughter, Margaret. Janet and FRANK CLARK are living in NY where he is a senior accountant with Shell Oil. They have three children. Kay and DENNIS COL­LINS are now at Stewart AFB, Smyrta, Tenn. Dennis graduated from Tnfts Med. School in '63 and has two daughters. They would like to hear from ED CHEW, JOHN BIRD, DICK FUGH and MIKE GILBERT. Come out, come out, wherever you are! 
RUDOLPH EHRENCING is now in his second year of residency at Payne Whitny Clinic of Cornell U. Med. Col. He married Gayle Wurzloise in Hauma, La. last April and JERRY WOLFE was their best man. 
HENRI LESE wrote and toU me he is in graduate school at Gamegie-Mellon U. (chem. cng.]. ICs wife gave tnrth to their second cluld, 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1948 FEBRUARY 
Da\-id, in June- CHARLES RIECH is ^^^rkrng on 
his PhD in solid state physics at MIT and is 
also teaching there. TOM MARTIN is now 
stationed at McChord AFB in Tacoma, Wash. 
He finished his medical internship at Alt. Carmel 
Hosp. in Columbus, Ohio. Tom and Judy have 
two children, &Iaria and Marty. 
D.WE THOMAS was married in June of *66 
to Karen Kuhl of St. Mary's of the Woods. Dave 
is in the doctorate program in theology at ND 
where he has a teaching assistantship. CHUCK. 
LEXNOX dropped mc another note informing me 
he heard form his old roommate, MIKE CAREX. 
Mike lives in San Diego and is the business mgr. 
for Pacific Telephone out there. Mike and his wife 
Carol have two girls, Barbara and Ann. ROX 
SHUBERT graduated from Western Rcscr\-e U. 
School of Med. in June *66. He completed his 
medical internship at Cleveland Metro. Gen. Hosp. 
this year and is now an AH) in tlic Xavy stationed 
at Bainbridge, Md. Ron and his wife Ruth were 
expecting their first child last May. BUTCH 
HAMILTON received an MA and PhD in bus. 
ad. from UCLA and is in the Army in ^Vashing­
ton, DC. Butch married Carolyn Dunlay and they 
have two small girls, 
TIM O'REILLY spent three years in the Xa\T 
and received his KIB.A from Dartmouth last June. 
He is liwng in RI \\>iih his wife and three children. 
Tim. is working with Puritan Aerosol Corp. Tim 
also passed on some other info on our classmates. 
ROY REGAX has moved to LA to begin a new 

job with American Airlines. NED PERRY and 
his wife live in New Orleans where he is an 

agent with the FBI. ED MURRAY is an engineer 
with Olivetti-Underwood in N^. TOM MOX­
SOUR and his wife Gene\-ievc arc living in 
S>Tacuse X'Y. Tom is a broker witli Bachc and 
Co. They have two sons, Tom and Tim. ED 
McDOXOUGH is an asst. district attorney in 
Houston and is trying to keep up with Ed Stephanas 
bi-ycarly trips to the Texas Gulf Coast. GEXE 
O'NEILL and his w'lit Irene have two boys. 
Gene got out of the Na^y in 1966 and is a pur­
chasing agent with Clias, Pfizer and Co. 
George Kane lives in Amsterdam, NY with his 

wife Monnie and their tw^ daughters. George is 
teacliing in North Syracuse School Dist. and also 
has his hand in coaching wrestling, tennis and 
football. Sure sounds like George keeps pretty 
busy. DON RALPH received his PhD in clinical 
psychology- in 1965. He is now a staff clinical 
psychologist at the VA Hosp. in Northhampton, 
Alass. Don is married to Margot Netting (SMC 
'63) and they have two sons, Danny and John. 
BILL POGUE and his wife Pam had their first 
baby last March, a girl, Erin, They are H\ins in 
Salt Lake City. 
JIM "CHARLIE" CUNEO was married in 

October *66 to Jana Mosgar-Zoubl in Walnut 
Creek Cal. Charlie was taking the Calif, bar in 
August and 1 hope everything came along fine. 
MIKE ESPOSrrO and his wife Ellen are living 
in River Edge, NJ. Mike has become an account­
ing officer with the Chase Manhattan Bank and 
received his MBA from N'YU in June. BOB 
CHOU and his wife Cecilia have two sons, Jeff 
and Rodney. Bob is working as a project leader 
of color TV engineering at GE in Syracuse. He 
is also attending Syracuse U. at night working 
for his PhD. His brother Terry is also with GE 
and is married and has two children. 
DICK NIELSEN went to Ford as a process 

engineer after getting his MS at ND in '63. Dick 
married Pat Nicsin (Marygrovc '64) in '64 and 
now has two children, Kristin Anne and Richard 
HI. Dick is now working in the engineering 
research dcpt. at the Edkon Co. BRIAN TUOHY 
taught in Syosset, NY from 1961-63. He married 
Eileen Sullivan and has a daughter. Brian is now 
in public relations with Grumman .^rcraft Co. as 
mgr. of orientations. 
Gentlemen, I must explain that some of this neu-s is rather old but I try to put it in the article as it comes to mc. I hope the info is right as I put it in the ALUMNUS and I am trying to get it all through these articles. Thanks! 
1 0Al I A\Af JOHN N. MORELAND 
lyOI LAW 5ni/, E. MAIN ST. OTTUAnVA, lOAVA 52501 
According to my file, it has been some time (early 1965, to be truthful) since I have last written a column. I apologize and resolve to do better. I hope tliat some of this news is not inaccurate or stale and, if so, I wotdd appreciate hearing from you. 
A note from ROD METTE tells of the adoption of a baby by Mary and Rod named Thomas Dominic. JIM TAL.AGA has joined the partner­ship of R. James Wcstwick and Jack L. Collison under the firm name of Wcstwicl, ColUsoa & Talaga, Santa Barbara, Calif. 
GERRY G.ALAVAN and Moira Mahoncy were married in June of 1966 and Gerry is in the US District Attorney's Office in Buffalo, NY. JIM CASEY's new address is 710 Kalamazoo BIdg., Kalamazoo, Mich. 49006. Jim is associated with the firm of Sage and KlcCauIey. 
I spent a pleasant evening with &IICHAEL O'BRIEN and his wife in Peoria, HI. on the way to the Kentucky Derby. Michael is assistant D.\ in Peoria. JOHN COFFEE reports he has dropped the Jr. from his name and is now known as John J. Coff'ee III. John is with Rothschild, Stevens & Barry at 105 S. LaSalle, Chicago. 
JACK HEFFER has left California and his new address is 314 W. Florence, Peoria, 111. TOM KAVADAS is now located at 408 Central Na­tional Bank Bldg., Sterling, HI. and ED BURKE is practicing at 111 W. Washington, Chicago. 
ED HARDIG reported that JOE SLADE died in South Bend some months ago and a Klass was offered in his memory by the Class. I saw JOHN HIRSHFELD, ART ROULE, JERRY GALVA N and ROD METTE in South Bend this fall and ran into BILL GERARD in Chicago on my way to the California game. Bill is still with the IRS. 
In view of my firm resolve to keep this column going, I would appreciate it if those of you who haven't been heard from would drop mc a line. 
JAUES KRAUSER 1760 EAST WEST HIGHAVAY 
SILVER SPRING, MD. 20910 

1962 H. 
Outstanding! Response by members of the Class of '62 makes my maU delivery seem like every day is in the middle of the Christmas season. Keep those yellow cards coming. 

Where are some of the *'JDcks" of our class? Since last column was partially devoted to Blue Circle members, equal time will now go to our athletes. EDDIE SCHXURR is in his hometown of Louisville with the Equitable Life Assurance Society. ARM REO, hack home in Troy, NY, is teaching and coaching at his high school alma. mater. JOHN DEARIE is in bw school at NYU. after picking up his AlBA. from Northwestern. KARL ROESLER at last report was in Scotia, NY working for GE as a traveling auditor. 
LES TRAVER is now in Cleveland with Associ­ates Investment Co. JOHN POWERS up until this year was playing pro football with both Pittsburgh and Minnesota. XL^X BURNELL is now in E\*anston with the Armour Co. BILL FORD is in his native Benton Harbor, Alich. with Scars. JIM MIKACICH has a new address at 2700 Wright St., Sacramento, Calif. BOB BILL is now selling insurance on Long Island after his pro football career with the Giants was cut short by a knee injury. ROGER WILKE spends his time in Hamilton, Ohio working for Procter & Gamble. JOE CAROLLO has started every game for the Rams since *62 and is a pro wrestler in the off-season. GEORGE WILLIAMS, just back from Vietnam, is with Gillette and working in Boston. 
NICK BUONICONTI a perennial All-Pro line­backer for the Patriots, works for Polaroid and is completing work for his law degree. NORB ROY at last report was back in South Bend selling insurance for a Louisiana-based firm. Ac­cording to sketchy reports TOM HECOMOVICH is somewhere in ^fiiinesota working for B.F. Goodrich. 
CLAY SCHULZ is back home in Wisconstti after spending a few years on tlic West Coast. GEORGE HAFFNER was bst heard of on the taxi squad of the Baltimore Colts. TOM JOR­LING is a lawyer with the Dept. of Interior in Washington, DC. GEORGE SEFCIK is one of Ara's hard working assistants and his old halfback twin, ANGIE DABIERO, is athletic director and head coach at Carmel HS, Kfundelcin, III. Angic and wife Pat now live at 449 Meado^v I.ane, Liberty\ine, HI. GERRY GRAY is teaching and coaching just outside his native Baltimore. DICK NABB reportedly is "careering it" in the Army, whereabouts unknown. Would like very much to licar from the likes of TOM LIGGIO, CHARLEY AUGUSTINE and any others I omitted. 
ODDS AND ENT>S: BOB BIOLCHINI, wife Fran and new son Bobby recently passed through DC for a few evenings of merriment. Bob had just returned from a two-year tour of duty with the Army in Germany and was still undecided where the law degree he earned from George Washington U . could best be applied. While in Germany Bob ran into RUSS HOOVER who also is finishing up his tour of duty. Russ has his law degree from Georgetown and no doubt will end up in the Chicago area to be close to Papa Bear Halas. BOB KELLEY was another member of our Class encountered in Germany as Bob is «dth the foreign service and the proud father of twins. 
"H " ORTHMEYER received a doctor of dental surgery from Ohio Sutc. TOM COLLINS is on active duty as a specialist in the Air Force. FRANK SARR has been appointed brokerage consultant at the Philadelphia brokerage office of Connecticut General Life Insurance Co. FRED WEBER and Miss Carole Baiskis S^fC '64 are engaged to be mairied in June of '68. HUGH GRAY recently completed a six-month ordinance officer career course at the Army School, Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md. 
BOB GALDABINI writes from his new address at 37531 Wilbum Pktce, Remont, CaliL, that he is vdth Mobil Oil. His wife was cxpecdng their first child in January, FRED KENIEC received his CPA certificate and is working in Corpus Christi. Fred has to qualify for the fath«"of the year award with four and by now probably five children. KEN COUGHLAN is sening with the 43rd Medical Group in Vietnam. PETE VIEIRA has been promoted to Scott Paper's corporate headquarters in Philadelphia as an assistant analyst in marketing research. 

Word comes from my West Coast **rep" MIKE HARTNETT: JOE BRACCO married Midge O'Neill last June and is with the probation dept. in San Francisco. I can't think of a more time consuming job, particukirly in San Francisco. LARRY SOLETTI is the administrative assistant to the vice-pres. of World Air\vays. Mike himself is with Western International Hotels as the sales mgr. of the St. Francis Hotel in San Francisco. Would like to hear more from you regional vice-presidents. 
If you haven't already pledged yourself to SUMM.A, it's not too late. Show your enthusiasm for ND and your respect for higher education. 
Where are you GEORGE ANDERSON and TOM KLETT? 
1962 LAW 
PAUL K. RODNEY 
U.S. COURTHOUSE FOLEY SQ. NEW YORK, N.Y. 10007 
FRANK P. DICELLO 218 PALMER HILL RD. 
OLD GREENWICH, CONN. 06870 

1963 
MATHIAS J. S.\G.\RTZ completed work for his doctorate at Northwestern U. and is no^v work­ing for Sandia Corp. in Albuquerque, NM. JOHN 
F. DOUGHERTY JR, now on active duty in San Francisco, was commissioned a 2nd Lt. in the USAF in February, 1967. He received his JD from Villanova U. School of Law in May, 1966 and was admitted to the Bar of the Supreme Court of New Jersey Nov. 1, 1966. 
EDWIN HERM.\NNS JR '63 «-as tilled about March 30, 1967 when he and another graduate student at Stanford were buried in an a\-ahinchc while hiking in Yoscmite National Park. They were not found until June 17 when the snou-s melted. 
JOHN F. KWINN '63 is assigned to the 16th Medical Dbpcnsary, US Army Vietnam, near Long Binh with the rank of captain. He received his MD degree in 1966 from the U. of Illinois Col. of Medicine in Chicago. 
RONALD SALDINO was unanimously chosen by the faculty of the U . of Chicago Medical School to receive the Joseph A. Capps Award. The award consists of a chedc and a scroll which are given to a graduating senior medical student in recognition of outstanding proficiency in clinical medicine. Ronald is currently doing an intcrn-
ship at the Indiana U. Medical Center. 
STEFFEN R. WELLSTEIN received a doctor of dental surgery degree from Ohio State U. ALLEN JOHN KORENJAK received a PhD in electrical engineering from Princeton. PATRICK JOSEPH DUDDY received a master of arts degree from Leliigh U. THOMAS E. HARVEY com­pleted the Army Infantry School's ranger course at Ft. Benningj Ga. 
P.ATRICK J. KORTH has been named a Peace Corps Volunteer after completing 11 weeks of training at Sacramento State CoL The volunteers arc assigned throughout Ecuador to help organize teams and develop ph\'sical education departments in schools and universities. 
ROBERT STEPSIS completed his PhD at Harvard in June and is now an asst. prof, at Lake Forest Col. in the English dept. Air. and Mrs. Stcpsis welcomed a son, Mark Andrew, June 14 in Boston. Miss Jacqueh-n Ann Holcwin­ski and RONALD MICHAEL BUDZINSKI were married Nov. U in South Bend. 
F. THOMAS FARRELL was awarded a PhD in mathematics in June at Yale. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS E. DALUM welcomed a daughter. Amy Marie, Oct. 26 in Milwaukee. Tom obtained a 
ALUMNI IN THE NEWS 
James S. Hearons '54 has been pro­moted to division general manager of Owens-Coming Corp. Former division sales manager, Hearons joined the glass firm in 1954. He is former president of the Milwaukee Section of the Society of Plastics Engineers and past president of the Owens-Corning Sales Builders Club. 
Patrick F. Healy '55 has been ap­pointed executive director of the Na­tional District Attorneys Assoc, which has a membership of 3000 prosecuting attorneys representing every state. Be­fore his appoinjroent, Healy was project director with the NDAA administering an $85,000 government grant for the training and education of prosecuting attorneys across the country. In his 

master's in business at Northwestern and is the 
director of marketing for the Utility Equipment 
Co. and also has started his o\vn teasing company 
in conjunction with the equipment company. 
JOHN G. HOG.-VN has been appointed director 
of information ser\'iccs at Piedmont Aviation Inc., 
Winston-Salem, NC. ROBERT C. KOCHES has 
been appointed a medical sales rep. for Eaton 
I.aboratorics, division of the Norwich Pharmacal 
Co. J.AMES R. MARK is an auditor with 
Detachment 7314, 1030th USAF Resident Auditor 
OfKcc at Athenal Airport, Greece. It has been 
named outstanding field audit ofHce in the 
European division. EDWARD A. DAVIS is a 
member of the unit selected as the best fighter 
squadron in the Air Defense Command. 
JACK D. MATTOX has Joined the social studies 
faculty at New Trier Township HS in Northfield, 
111. 

PAUL MICHAEL LEHNER was one of the 
first recipients of the George M. Humphrey Fel­
lowships to be awarded at the Har\'ard Graduate 
School of Bus. Admin. He was married Aug. 5 
in Dublin, Ga. to Miss Linda Suzanne Smith. 
Army Capt. ARTHUR J. VOLZ received the 
Air Medal July 30 in Vietnam for combat serial 
Congrats 
new position he is responsible for the management of the association and the implementation of new legislation for the betterment of law enforcement. 
J. Patrick Houren '56 has been named executive officer of The Wellington Corp., a new Dallas-based financial and management consulting firm. The new company will assist in organizing, ac­quiring or merging life insurance com­panies; assist in the management of already-established life insurance com­panies; and provide marketing, man­agement and communications programs for insurance companies. Houren en­tered the insurance industry in 1959 and in 1964 he established J. Patrick Houren & Assoc, a Dallas financial and public relations firm. 
support of ground operations. He is an advisor with the Sath Artillerr Battn. THOMAS B. HOTOPP was promoted to Anny captain in July near Fleiku, Vletnani where he is serving with the 43th General Supply Group. A transportation officer, he is assigned to the group's HQ. Co. Har^'ard awarded degrees to these classmates in June: JOSEPH JOHN ROMANEK H, LLB and KEVIN ERIC CAHILL, PhD. Mr. and Ikfrs. ALBERT JOSEPH PALKO were married Ai^. 26 in ComwaIlK)n-Hudson, N.Y. The bride is the former Miss Joanne Alary Duff. The couple will be residing at 809 Edgebrock Dr., Apt. 215, DeKalb, III. 
Sister ALICE MARIE has been appointed to the board of trustees of the Carnegie Public Ubraiy in Sault Ste. Marie, Mich, F. THOMAS FAR­RELL of Chevy Chase, Md. was awarded a PhD in math from Yale. He is presently teaching at Yale. 
1963 lAW 
JOSEPH It SULUVAX 1526 E. CEDAR ST. SOUTH BEND, IND. 46617 

Leo Unbeck Jr. '56, preadent of Linbeck Construction Corp., has been elected president of the Houston Chap­ter of the Associated General Con­tractors of America. The chapter rep­resents construction firms in labor re­lations and aids in settling disputes on area construction projects to help maintain a stable labor climate needed for steady growth of the Houston area. Linbeck's own firm is currently work­ing on Rice ITs Men's Dormitory, the 
U. of Houston Science and Research Building and Citizens Savings Building in Canton, Ohio. 
aarence W. "aiff" Turek '56 
has been named to the new post of associate engineering supervisor in charge of control systems for Chicago Aerial Industries Inc., Barrington, 111. He will be responsible for the super­vision of electro-mechanical projects concerned with airborne camera control systems. Turek holds two patents in the electronics field—one for a traffic light control system and one for a video character generator. 
William E. Thees '57, formerly di­rector of industrial relations at the Hoover Ball Division of Hoover Bali and Bearing Co. in Erwin, Tenn., has been promoted to plant manager. Before joining Hoover in 1966, Thees was personnel director of Bunting Brass & Bronze Co. 
Charles P. Lennon '61 is the new ex­ecutive director of the Mental Health Assoc, of St. Joseph County (Ind.). Lennon was formerly an assistant re­search administrator and coordinator of sponsored projects at ND. He is direc­tor of the Catholic Interracial Council and the ND Club of St. Joseph Valley. 
Ist Lt. Kurt F. Metyko '65 
was awarded the Bronze Star, America's fourth highest military decoration, at Ft. Hood, Tex. for "valorous and meritorious service" in Vietnam. He was an engineering officer •with the 536th Heavy Engineering Mainte­nance Co., operating out of Chou Lon, South Vietnam and was responsible for intelligence and battalion security. Metyko is now serving as a company commander with the 123rd Battalion of the 1st Armored Division Support and plans to resume his civil engineer­ing career in Houston when he com­pletes his tour of duty in February. 
TUREK '56 THEES '57 
LENNON •«! METYKO '65 

ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 
 STEPHENS munications officer on the USS Ozark. FRED nomics at Brother Rice HS. SAM CALOXHC HOO CLOVE RD., NO. 5-C LEDERER is employed by Dun and Bradstreet has graduated from Loyola Law School. PAT 
1964 CLAY STATEN ISLAND, NY 10301 Inc., East Orange, NJ and is residing in Seaside O'MALLEY is working for Time Inc. while 
FRANK PETRO is on military leave from IBM while scri-ing in the US Public Health Sen-ice at the National Institute of Health, Bcthesda, &fd. Frank received his MBA from Wharton last June. JIM McGRATH has graduated from the Iowa U. Law School. FRANK PAPP has been awarded a NASA trainecship while working towiird his PhD in math at the U. of Delaware. He and his wife have a year-old son Francis Joseph. 
CARL "RED" MOROXEY is in Marine OCS at Quantico. He received his law degree from the U. of San Francisco last June and passed the California Bar Exam in the fall before reporting to training. SAM SKARICH is teaching and coaching football and basketball in St. Joseph, &Iich. He and Geri Fritsch were married during the stmimer. 
Lt. FRANK CORR.\DO, after a stint with the 101st Airborne Div. in ci\*ic action work with Vietnamese refugees, is now a press officer tn Qui Nhow. His vnic Karen is working at the ND infirmary. PHILIP FALERTY III graduated from Villano\'a Law School and has entered the Army. He and his u-ife Pat have a two-vear-old son, Philip IV. BRIAN RHATIGAN has also joined the rapidly grou-ing ranks of attorney's; he graduated from State U. of NY Law School in Buffalo and is now a legal officer in the Marines. He and his wife Klar^'alice welcomed a son, Timothy, kst February*. BOB KELLEY is at Har\*ard Business School after a tour as com* 
Park, NJ. BOB FRITSCH and his wife Karen are living in Fowler, Ind. They have a t»it>-year­old son, Robert Mark, and Bob is woricing for Waldorf Hocmer Corp. BERNARD GRISEZ returned from Vietnam last spring and returned home to Canton, Ohio. 
JIM WALSH spent two years as a PC volunteer in Thailand. After a summer in Hawaii training other volunteers, Jim returned to Thailand as assoc dir. of the Peace Corps. DAVE CONNELL graduated trom the U. of Denver Business School last August and served as prcs. of the graduate student body. Prior to school he had been a Lt (jg) aboard the USS Shrike. Dave and his bride Barbara are living in NYC where he is a special sales rep. for Coming Glass. SID GAGE is in Army OCS after rccceiving his &1BA from Stanford U. JOHN SIEGER received bb law degree from Georgetown and has returned to Chicago. He and his wife Mary have a year-old daughter, Maggie. 
DON FOSCATO sen-ed in Japan and Vietnam with the Navy and is now married and working for Price Waterhouse in Washington, DC. Capt. MIKE DiCARLO has returned from Vietnam and is now stationed at Fort Ord. BRUCE TUTHILL is back at Harvard Business School after serving as a Lt. in the Army for two years. He will graduate in June, *68. 
TOM SULLIVAN was married to Julie Dyrcz. Tom is now at the U. of Chicago graduate school in economics and taught a year of eco­working on his kiw degree at DePaul U. FRANK GLASGOW completed two years with the Army stationed at Ft. Benning, Ga. He is employed now by Chrysler Corp. in Detroit and pursuing his graduate degree at the U. of Michigan. He is married and has one son, KeWn. TOM CASE has graduated from Albany Law School and will probably enter the AF in the JAG Corps. 
DON KOPROWSKI received his doctor of law degree in June from the U. of Wisconsin. He is working as a patent attorney for American Can Co. in Barrington, HI. He b married to the former Eileen Carron. Others receiving their doctor of law degrees from UW are MARK KORB and JIM HOUGH. Mark is practicing law in Janesville, Wis. with the firm of Campbell, Brcnnan, Stcil and Ryan. He was married last smnmer. KEVIN GOOD is director of training at Dodge Mfg. in Mishawaka, Ind. He and his wife Kathleen have a son, Keith James, and are liraig in So. Bend. GEORGE ZIMMERMAN is engaged to Laura Jean Chada. FRITZ HOLZ­GREFES* address in Venezuela is now Purina de Venezuela, Apartado Portal 4681 Maracay. 
lilany thanks to all of you who have taken the time to write; it's much appreciated. For those working in NYC or who happen to be in town, I wtould welcome the opportunity to hear from^ you and be brought up to date on current activities. Tm in the US Dept. of the Chase Manhattan Bank at the main office. My phone is 552-8466; call if you can. 
Cannon ^SS, itosgi ^59^ Schafer '59 and Kane 'GO 
DIAGHOSIHG THE TIRED TOWNS 
W
ITH degrees from the ND School of Architecture as a common technical foundation, three young men added economics, sociology, urban administra­tion and public relations to their in­terests and succeeded in building a new business. Patrick F. Kane '60 is pres­ident, John Rossi '59 is secretar>'-treas­urer and William Schafer '59 is vice-president of KRS Associates Inc., an urban planning firm with headquarters in the new planned community of Reston, Va. 
One thing they soon learned in their fledgling venture was that the com­plexities of the urban problem lend themselves to the techniques of the aerospace defense industries. So they affiliated with a fourth ND grad, Peter Cannon, who received his degree in aeronautical engineering in 1956 and his master's in 1958. Cannon, a mem­ber of the board of directors of KRS, works as a s>-stems specialist in urban problem solving using the experience he gained working for the Defense Department. 
Before they formed their own com­pany, Kane, Rossi and Schafer were employed by a city planning firm in Maryland. Some of their interesting jobs were replanning cities devastated by the 1965 earthquakes in Alaska and an urban renewal project in Rome, NY that employed an archaeologist. Their Roman dig uncovered the site of a 1750 British fort which has since been pro­posed for reconstruction as the focal point of an entirely redesigned down­town. 
Most of KRS' assignments are for cities in New York but "we hope to eventually expand across the United States and, ultimately, develop an inter­national practice," the firm's youthful president says. 
Currently they are at work on a master plan for Lackawanna, NY. Their services have included a survey and analysis of the city's physical de­velopment, economic characteristics and social composition. With this data, the Lackawanna city fathers will establish their goals for the future development of the town. The KRS plan outlines op­timum land uses including locations for schools, thoroughfares and parks. Zon­ing ordinances and capital improve­ment programs are also outlined for the administration. 
KRS also handles community re­newal programs in which a long-range plan is designed to maximize the re­sources of a community—administra­tive, fiscal, physical and social—^in a 
SCHAFER, ROSSI AND KANE 

single program to achieve the com­munity's objectives. They are working on such programs now in Lackawanna and Yonters, NY wherein they provide a detailed statement of the community problems with particular emphasis on the amount of physical and social de­terioration. In community renewal pro­grams, KRS uses local personnel as much as possible since one of their objectives is to offer these people a more meaningful way to operate their agencies and departments. 
A third service KRS offers is urban renewal projects in which their role is to aid a city in identifying its renewal needs, preparing applications for fed­eral funds, reviewing redevelopment programs, meeting with prospective developers and giving assistance to the local staffs responsible for the programs. 
Experience has taught KRS that the problems of today's cities can't be re­solved with government programs only so they go to private industry and financial institutions to interest them in helping communities. 
Altogether "K," "R" and "S" have been involved in construction, renewal, rehabilitation and social improvement in more than 100 cities across the country and they're excited about the prospects for the future. 
"The dynamics of the field of urban problem solving make everything that we have been involved with extremely interesting," Kane says, "but there is a particular sense of achievement in observing new construction taking place in accordance with our designs in com­munities that have been inactive for years relative to self-improvement." 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 

KRISTOWSKI and wife Sue. Their daughter is encoonter. Fui] leports that Bonate and Steve 
1964 UVW 

Dolli Sue. Dennis is working as a designer of Sean have a bemtifiil bone not too fsu* bam 
THOMAS F. CONNEELY MORIARTY, ROSE FACCENDA & HULTQUIST ONE NORTH LASALLE ST. SUITE 701 CHICAGO. ILL. 60G02 
JAMES P. HARNISCH Apt. B 
863 E. GRANVILLE RD. 
COLUMBUS, OHIO 43224 

1965 
The Vietnam war has unfortunately again claimed 
the life of one of our classmates, Lt. JAMES 
EMIL PAULIGEK, an Army helicopter pilot who 
had served in the combat zones since last January, 
died Nov. 3 of injuries suffered in a helicopter 
crash. Jim entered the Army upon graduation 
and while in Vietnam spent most of his time 
flying escort to troop carriers. 
Lt. (jg) TERRY GARRIGAN is serwng as 
officer in charge of Seabcc Team 0702 at Tan An, 
Long An Fh>vince, Vietnam. Terry was married 
last June to Barbara Ann Bracco {SMC *66) of 
South San Francisco. He will soon be reassigned 
to the Naval Weapons Station in Concord, Calif, 
as resident officer in charge of construction. Lt. 
(jg) BEN BEALL and Lt. (jg) JIM SMITH­
WICK are attached to the UDT Team 11 in 
Danang and Ben b undargoing further SEAL team 
training. Lt. (jg) DAN DUFFY is flj^ng as an 
RIO in the Navy Phantom F-4B and is now 
engaged in his second combat cruise aboard the 
Enterprise. Lt. BILL DUFFY is stationed in 
Thailand with the Army Engineer Corps. 
PAT KEALY was presented with a daughter, Courtney, last September by his wife Christine. Living next door to them are BILL LEWIS and wife Caria (Johnson, SMC '65). They had their first child, Timothy Michael, last August. Bill is sales rep. in NJ and Pa. for AMOCO Chemicals Corp. Lt. (jg) FRANK OBERT is living in San Francisco with wife Kathy and son, Francis X. m , while instructing at a Navy school for damage control officers on Treasure Island. Fran and the family managed a long Christmas leave for a trip to the East Coast. Lt. (jg) BARRY JOHANSON is serving on the USS Boyd and Lt. (jg) REX FITCH is attending destroyer school in New-port, RI. Rex has two children: Lynnctte Elizabeth and Dawn Louise. 
ART (HER was married in August to Sandy Matheson (SMC '66) in Bloomington, 111. and is currently living in Farmington, Mich, while serv­ing as metropolitan Detroit area manager for U-Haul Co. of Mich. JIM CONWAY received his MS in mechanical engineering from N D last June and is now working with Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corp. in Bethpage, NY. TOM "MURPH" MITTELHAUSER is living in Dun­kirk, NY with his wife Judy and their daughter. Tom is employed by Allegheny Steel Corp. Lt. BILL MINDLIN (USA) is working for General Dynamics in LA until April when be will enter active duty. Bill received his MS in aerospace engineering at ND last year. Lt. STEVE WORTHLEY (USAF) received the same MS degree. Steve and his wfe Marlene (SMC '66) are the proud parents of a girl, Lisa Marie. 
Others receiving this MS degree in aerospace include Lt. CHUCK CAMPBELL, who is teaching at the Navy grad school in Calif.; MIKE SMITH, who is working with the GE Space Center and living in Valley Forge, Pa. with wife Mary (SMC '66) and son, Steve; CHARLES HALL, who was married to Alary Wixted (SMC '66) last June and is pursuing a PhD at ND; DANA BILLINGS is also staying at N D to work on his PhD and he was married to Palma Sabato in New Rochelle, NY; Lt. (jg) TED FALLER who was married to Betty Burrell in Gary last July and is now in flight training at Pensacola, Fla.; and Lt. STEVE STUMPFEL (USAF) who is stationed at Wright-Patterson AFB with wife Renec and son Scott. 
A Mellon Foundation grant for independent research in architecture and planning sent RON KASPRISIN to London for a summer of study last year. Ron is currently in his last year of grad school in urban planning at the U. of Washington (Seattle). JOE HORNBACK w ^ presented ^vith a son, Joseph Michael Jr, a year ago January by his wife. Nan. After receiving his PhD in chemistry from OSU this year, Joe plans to head for U. of Wisconsin for post­doctoral research. 
MIKE HERR and wife Nancy had a baby giri, Julie, last June. Mtke graduated from OSU IMIW School in December. Another set of proud parents of a baby girl bom in June are DENNIS swimming pools for Doughboy in New Richmond, Wis. After receiving a master's degree in govern­ment from U. of Maryland last August, BERNIE RAIMO entered George Washington U. law school. Bemie was married last June to Catherine Jane Aloran in Wheaton, Md. 
ROBERT QUINN was awarded his MSE from Princeton last January and is now a PhD can­didate at Purdue. He was married to Susau Williams (SMC '67) in July and spent the summer traveling in Europe on his honeymoon. TOM KERNS is working on his PhD m philos­ophy at Marquette and spent last fall teaching at St. Ambrose. Tom has two children: Tommy and Lisa Marie. Lt. RICK CAREY (USA) is stationed in the comptroller's office at William Beaumont Gen. Hosp., £1 Paso. 
JOHN HOLAHAN was married in June to Nancy DiCarlo and is in the Georgetown School of Economics. FRANK GAUL is at Harvard Business School and MIKE MASTERSON is busy at Stanford U. Business School. MIKE REGAN was married to Martha Hill of Rochester, NY in January and is now in Columbia U. Business School. Lt. MIKE MATHIS is stationed at Wright-Patterson AFB as a cost analysis officer in operation research. Alike received his master's in economics last February from ND. CHARLIE BURNS and wife P^im had a second child, David Anthony, last May. Their daughter, Liz, is two years old. Charlie is the financial analyst for Phillips Petroleum treasury dept. in Bartlesville, Okla. 
BILL COUGHLIN is serving with the Army in Heidelberg, Germany. ALBERT BUENNAGEL is on a "leave of absence" from U. of tlaryland grad school to take an assignment \rith the Na­tional Science Foundation as chief of their seis­mology lab at Byrd Station in the Antarctic After a two year stint in the Navy as an operations officer, DOUG BRANSON is cracking the books at Northwestern U. Law School. REX LARDNER is in grad school now after spending two years as a joint special services-public info, officer at an Army base near Ankara, Turkey. 
Our column's word limit again prohibits in­clusion of all the current information forwarded to me. Afuch more to appear in the next issue. 
1965 LAW 
JOHN A. HAUTER 
1050 INDIANA AVE. 
GLENWOOD, ILL. 60425 

1966 
RICHARD ANGELOTTI 8640 SOUTH 86TH AVE., APT. 203 
JUSTICE. ILL. G045S 
1966 LAW 
FRANK GREGORY 7403 KEYSTONE LANE FORESTVILLE. MD. 20028 

I reported last issue that TOM PETERSON would be spending the remainder of his Anny hitch in Germany. Tom has written with more definite information; his address is ILt. Thos. 
A. Peterson, Co. C, 793d MP Bn, APO NY 09801. He is the executive ofEcer of a military police CO. Both he and ROSS (now at Ft. Hood, Texas) passed the California Bar and "are botli still single." JOHN HAUGH writes he is associ­ated with Green, Richardson, Griswold & Alurphy in Portland and enjoying private practice. He and Phyllis expect their second child in late February. JIM VIRGIL passed through Portland on his way to British Columbia to buy Imnber. Business is good! 
The MURPHYs and the GREGORYS helped some of PAUL POLKING's neighbors celebrate Uncle PauFs latest birthday at a surprise party in DC. TOM W.ARD passed through again and came over for a guided tour of the Supreme Court. His company has been involved in merger activities. 
BOB KRAUSE writes that he saw Navy Officer JOE DELLA MARIA (stationed in Philadelphia after JAG training) at the SC game. MIKE ROCHE u-as "a bit heavier and a bit balder," but enjoying life in Chicago. He reported that BOB SCMIEGE is finishing "in the money" in amateur cycle races in and around the Chicago area. 
Paul Polking went to both the Michigan State and Pitt games. He saw no one at Pitt but saw TOM READY, SAM BERNARDI, STEVE SEALL and BOB SCHMIEGE at the State Ftaf. Blakey's. If anyone is conndering. DC as a vacation highlight this summer, be sore and drop us a line. We look fonnud to scdng as many of the Chm as posable. 
 HUGHES 
99 W. Stk ST. 
BAYONNE, M J . 070(8 

1967 
JOHN J. 
Most of the news I hare recoved during the last two months has oontinaed to center around the memben of the Class who are foiling into the military. Though there are some who are stiH in contact from the more silent academic worM, the ever-increasing pressures of the draft and the loa of the grad. schixil deferments arc becoming more and more evident. 
JEFFREY W. COYLE, who was married last June to Ronnie Barry, has been commissioned as a 2nd It. in the USAF. Both JeS and Ronnie are originally from Statcn Island, NY but they are now living at Lackland AFB where he is stationed. MK E WALSH look the oath of service recently from his lather, Cmdr John A. Walsh USNR (Ret.) at the USNR Training Sta­tion in South Bend. Mike is in his first year at Maniuette U. School of Medicine in Milwaukee and his duties during the school year %rill include being the Commandant's District Ninth Naval Representative for the program and exec, officer of the Medical Reserve Co. at the Med. School. 
WILLIAM F. SCHOTTELKOTTE and ROB­
ERT M. ZICKES have been commissioned 2nd 
Lt., USAF. Both bail from Ohio—Bin from 
Dayton and Bob from F^mui—and will be sta­
tioned at Lackland, Tex. 
A group of Classmates have recently completed 
special training courses in the services and aie 
now beginning their work in these specialized 
fields. MARK E. SMHII has gone through the 
air defense officer basic course at the Army Air 
Defense School, Ft. Bliss, Tex., while PAT MUR­
RAY has finished a missile maintenance officer 
course at the Army Missile and Munitions School, 
Redstone Arsenal, Ala. BERNARD M. BERK­
LICH has just completed the basic course at Ft. 
Harrison, Ind. and will be now working with 
the Adjutant General's Staff. 
DON LIEFOLD was commisnoned a 2nd Lt. USAF and is now stationed at Wright-Patterson AFB in Dayton. Don was married last June in South Bend to the former Carol Bowser of White Pigeon, Mich. 
There have been a number of engagements that I have heard about during the last few months; Miss Ellen Marie Mctrantini and TOM CONOSCENTI, Miss Ann Gillis and RICHARD McCLOSKEY, Miss Daryl Jan Rafferty and ROBERT E. DUFFY were all to be married ia-December and Miss Margaret Ann Knapp and JAMES EARL CASE were to be married Jan. 27. 
A high percentage of the Class also seem to be entering into Peace Corps and VISTA work. KEVIN HEALY has been named a Peace Corps volunteer after completing nine and a half weeks training in San Antonio, Tex. and Toluca, Mex. He also spent a month training in Peru where he will now be wtirking with the employees of the Peruvian Agricultural Extension .Agency in a program aiming at the improvement of the agricultural practices of that country. 
DAN RYAN is now spending a year working vnth the legal aid society as a VISTA volunteer. He was graduated from the VISTA training program at the National Urban League Training Center in Atlanta. RICK TROY has also been im-otved in woric with a legal aid project in Newark, NJ that developed out_ of the backlog in the courts after the summer riots there. 
I recently received a note from BOB HUSSON who is working for the Defense Dept. He is living in Laurel, Md. and frequently gets over to Georgetown to see some of the boys ihuing their graduate worit over there. Bob said he has run into HANK TOPPER a number of times and has seen PAUL KELLY wandering around the dorms. Paul is attending law school at George­town and has a poution as prefect in one of the dorms. 
1967 LAW 

JAMES C. BEINHOLD pasKd the bdiana Bar exam and was Gcensed to praclice in September. He is associated with a firm in South Bend. DAVID R. HOLMES is now with the law office of R. Alexis Clarke, 121 N. Center St., Bremen, Ind. 46506. WILLIAM H. ALBRIGHT has joined the law firm of Fiser ft Cox. H e was admitted to the bar in September. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 
LOURDES CONFRATERNITY 
Classmates and friends of Rev. Philip Schaerf CSC '31 will be happy to leam that he is back in the work of Our Lady of the Grotto. He has been assigned director of the Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception of Our Lady of Lourdes at Notre Dame. The purpose of his office is to be of sen-ice to those who want to enroll in the Confraternity and to supply Lourdes water from the Shrine in France for their friends and themselves. Among the benefits deceased and living Con­fraternity members enjoy is a Mass each Saturday. Additional information re­garding the work of the Confraternity may he requested from Father Schaerf. 
MARRIAGES 
MIS. Wolfgang C. Delbrueck and ALBERT "DUKE" HODLER '23, Portland, Aug. 24, 1967. 
Miss Illarie Elizabeth Fleming and WILLOUGH­BY ifARKS MARSHALL '47, '49, Waltham, Mass., Aug. 28, 1967. 
Miss Sharon Aileen O'Laughlin and THOMAS 
E. FOOTE '53, Bloomfield Klls, Mich., Dec 15, 1967. Miss Virginia if. Doyle and RICIURD M. RIEGEL '58, Aug. 26, 1%7. 
iliss Patricia Lynn Erier and JOHN J. O'HAN­LO.V '65, Nov. 18, 1967, ND. . Miss Patricia Marie O'Donnell and J. RAY­MOND FLYNN '66, Nov. 18, 1967, ND. 
Miss Kathleen Kfary Smith and TODD A. HERZOG '66, Buffalo, N'Y, May 13, 1967. 
• Miss Mary Kathleen Kitzmiller and ROBERT A. WINGENFELD '66, Dec. 22, 1967. 
BIRTHS 
Jfr. and Mrs. EUGENE J. SCHMTT '55, a son, John Alexander, adopted November, 1967. . Mr. and Mis. LEO LINBECK '56, a daughter, Iklary Clark, Jan. 8. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT SGANNELL '57, a daughter, Jan. 15. Mr. and Mrs. BILL DONOVAN '58, a son, Sept. 28, 1967. 
Mr. and Mrs. TOM O'REGAN '58, a son. Sept, 26, 1967. : Dr. and Mis. ROBERT WOMBACHER '59, a daughter. Amy Marie, Jan. 3, Cincinnati. 
Mr. and Mrs. WALTER RIEBENACK '62, a daughter, Kristen Ann, Dec. 20, 1967. 
• Mr. and Mrs. DOUGLAS ARMSTRONG '63, a son, Brian, De c 9, 1967. 
Mr. and Mn. JOSEPH E. KELLY '53, a son, Bn-an Joseph, Nov. 20, 1967. 
• Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS J. DINGELL '64, a son, Thomas John Jr., De c 29, 1967. Mr. and Mrs. PATRICK T. NASH '65, a daughter, Stephanie Laura, Dec. 18. 1967. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES C. HEINHOLD '67L, a son, Christopher James, De c 24, 1967. 
SYMPATHY 
CALLIX }IIILLER SR '21 on the death of Us wile, Dec. 28, 1967. 
J. FR.*NK MILES SR '22, on the death of iiis son, Jan. 7. 
WILLIAM VEENEMAN JR '34 on the death of his brother, ROBERT LEWIS VEENEMAN '47. 
LOUIS L. DaPRA '39 on the death of his father, De c 3, 1967. WILLI.MI R. DILLON '40 on the death of his brother. JOHN R. MALONE '42, assoc dean and prof. bus. adm., on the death of his mother, Jan. 6. JAMES J. MALONE '44, on the death of his mother, Jan. 6. 
JACQUES VEENEMAN '44 on the death of his brother, ROBERT LEWIS VEEXEM.\N '47. JOHN F. McCORHnCK '48 on the death of 
his mother in November, 1967. CALLIX MILLER JR '49 on the death of his mother Dec. 28. JAMES K. POLLER '49, '55L on the death of his mother, De c 28. FR.4NK J. MURNANE '49 on the death of his wife in December, 1967. EUGENE H. TAYLOR '51, on the death of his father. LEO J. BRENNAN JR '51, on the death of ids father. 
2i 
J.\MES F. GALLAGHER JR '53 on the death 
of his father, Oct. 14, 1967. 
PAUL A. MILLER '55 on the death of his 
mother, De c 28. 
LEO D. O'DONNELL JR '56 on the death of 
his father. Dr. LEO D. O'DONNELL '17, Dec 6. 
PHILLIP DONAHUE '57, on the death of 
his father. 
JOHN MILLER '58 on the death of his mother, 
Dec 28. 
FRANCIS W. CAHILL '59 on the death of 
his father. 
JOHN C. KIEFER '59 on the death of Ids 
father, Nov. 26, 1967. 
RICHARD J. PHELAN '59 on the death of 
his father, Dec. 22, 1967. 
JOHN J. MAHER '60, on the death of his 
father. 
PATRICK E. PHELAN '60 on the death of his 
father, De c 22, 1967. 
PATRICK J. KEARNERY '61 on the death 
of his father. 
GUY D. POWERS '61 on the death of his 
father. Dr. D.WID G. POWERS '33. 
JAMES C. PHELAN '66 on the death of his 
father, De c 22, 1967. 
DEATHS 
CH.\RLES H. JOHNSON '08, Sept. 14, 1966. 
ELLSWORTH F. HUTZELL '10, December 
1967, Ft. Wa>'ne, Ind. Surxivors include the 
widow, 615 Mechanic, Ft. Wa>-nc, Ind. 
C. L. U. CLEMENS LLB'll, Nov. 2, 1967, St. Petersburg, Fla. 33709. Survivors include the widow Ullian, 7403 46th Ave., North, St. Peters­burg. 
JAMES VINCEN'T ROBINS LLB'14, 1963, 
Nogales, Ariz. 
JOSEPH F. KENNEY LLB'15, Jan. 4, Berkley, Mich. Survivors include the widow, 811 Cam­bridge, Berkley-, Mich. Mr. Kenney was a mem­ber of the ND National &fonogiam Club. He was a catcher for the NY Giants Baseball Club under the late John McGraw. 
DENNIS TI.MOTHY McCARTHY '15, AprU 25, 1965. 
HOWARD J. ELLIS '17, Dec 11, 1967, De­troit, Mich. He is survived by three daughters and a son. 
JOHN J. GARRY '17, Port Nechcs, Tex., Nov. 
11, 1967. He is survived by his widow. Box 751, 
Port Nechcs. 
JAMES D. HAYES 17L, Washington, DC, Dec 13, 1967. Mr. Hayes was a former asst. solicitor for the VA and chairman of the Washington Draft Board that registered President Franklin Roose­velt. He played football at ND during the Rockne era and was founder of the ND Club of Wash­ington, DC. Survivois include his wife Kfargarete, 1135 16th St., NW, Washington, DC. 
GEORGE N. HOLMES '17, Jan. 11, Omaha, Nebraska. He u-as a member of the football teams '14, '15 and '16, and a member of the Afonogram Club. Survivors include a daughter. 
FREDERICK L. MAHAFFEY '17, Indianapolis, Dec. 10, 1967. He is survived by his widow, 5248 Nob Lane, Indianapolis 46244. 
Dr. LEO D. 0'DON.NELL '17, Pittsburgh, Dec 6, 1957. A former member of the ND Alumni Board and a former medical faculty mem­ber at the U. of Pittsburgh, Dr. O'Donnell was an emeritus staff member of Mercy Hosp. in Pittsburgh where he did his internship and had been on the staff ance 1924. He was a foimer prcs, of the medical staff and former chief of suigery. He conceived the idea of the Mercy HospitalO'Donnell Diagnostic Clinic, which offers a complete package of diagnostic services and includes a motel for the convenience of patients who must stay. The clinic staff honored its co-founder by naming the new facility, which opened last fall, for him. Survivors include his widow, 4601 Bayard St., Pittsburgh 15213. 
E. R. MCDONNELL 'is. Council Bluffs, Iowa, June 26, 1967. He is survived by his widow, 120 
S. Main St., Council Bluffs. 
STANLEY J. McGIVERAN '23, De c 22, 1967, Chicago. Survivors include his widow Pauline, 850 N. Lake Shore Dr., Chicago, a son and daughter. 
LOUIS E. NAVIN '23, Dec. 26, 1967. Snr­vix'ors include the widow, 821^ North Main, Mitchell, SD 57301. 
JOSEPH D. CARR '25, Ottawa, Dl., Nov. 23, 1967. 
MYRON E. HOOD '25, Nov. 14, 1967. 
JAMES A. JONES '27, Lynbrook, NY, Decem­
ber, 1967. He is survived by his widow, 30 Watts PI., Lynbrook. R.\PHAEL FRANK BOV '28, De c 9, 1967. 
LOUIS J. CARR '28, Spring Lake, NJ, Feb. 11, 
1967. He is survived by his widow Helen, 120 
Brighton Ave., Spring Lake. 
RICHARD L. PHELAN "28, Dec 22, 1967, Wilmette, III. Survivors include the widow Anne C , 921 Sheridan Rd., Wihnette, and three sons. 
Dr. STEPHEN R. RICHTARSIC '29, Nov. 21, 
1967. Surrivois include the widow, 1825 Ashby 
Rd., St. Louis, Mo. 63114. 
PAUL M. APP '30, Ft. Wayne, Ind., July 3, 
1967. Survivors include the widow Mary, 1516 
Kensington Blvd., Ft. Wayne. 
Judge MALCOLM E. TROMBLEY '30, '32L, 
Dec. 9, 1967, Mt. Clemens, Mich. Survivors in­
clude the widow Helen, 76 Lincoln St., Mt. 
Clemens, 48043, and two daughters. 
JOHN R. BLANDA '31, Passaic, NJ. 
Dr. DAVID G. POWERS '33, NY, Dec. 14, 1967. He was prof, of speech at Queens Col. Dr. Powers %rrote 14 books on public speaking and popular psychology. His Live a New Life pub­lished in 1949 won a Literary Guild Award and was a book club selection. He is survived by his widow JuUe, 76-35 113th St., Forest Hills, NY and a son. 
FRANCIS J. NARY '34, Rumson, NJ, De c 11, 1967. Foimer Mayor Nary died in Riverview Hosp., Red Bank, NJ where he had been a patient two weeks. He graduated cum laude from the University and received his law degree from Georgetown U. He is sunived by his ividow Clare, 124 Ave. of Two Rivers, Rumson, NJ 07760. 
JOHN J. LOCHER JR '35, '36L, Cedar Rapids, Io«-a, Nov. 20, 1967. 
CHARLES S. MORRIS '35, Sept. 28, 1967. Survivors include the widow Doris R., 57 West Main St., Honevoye Falls, NY 14472. 
JOHN F. NOVAK '35, Buffalo, NY, Decem­ber, 1967. Survivors include the widow, 483 Mc­Kinley Park%%-ay, Buffalo. 
JOHN M. LEE '36, Aug. II, 1967, San Fran­cisco. 
JOHN BEER '38, Oct. 30, Chicago. Sunrivors include his widow, 12519 S. Stewart Ave., Chi­cago, and five children. 
FREDERICK J. SIEPIETOWSKI '38, Whitins­ville, Mass. 
JOSEPH G. MAHER '41, 1964. Sun-ivors in­clude a son JOHN J. '60, 1618 Broad, New Castle, Ind. 47362. 
THOM.*S E. DILLON, '42, De c 23, 1967. Survivors include a brother, WILLIAM R. '40. JOSEPH M. CHENEY '44, Jan. 4, Schuyler­viUe, NY. 
WILLIAM M. CLEMENCY '45, Nov. 24, Rockville Centre, N'Y. He is survived by his widow Cathleen, 123 Lakeside Dr., Rockville Centre, NY 11570, and ten children. 
Rt. Rev. Msgr. WILLIAM BARRY LLD'46, Xliami Beach, Nov. 16, 1967. Msgr. Barry was one of the founders of Barry Col. for Women and he founded St. Francis Hosp. where he died. He was instrumental in starting The Florida Calholic. Pope Pius XII honored him with the tide of Prothonotary Apostolic. 
JOHN F. "JACK" MILES '47, South Bend, Jan. 7. He died of an infection in his polio-weakened lungs. A former ND "Alan of the Year," he was Class secretary and wrote a column for the ALtJMNOS. Survivors include his widow Betty, 3218 Bendey Lane, South Bend. A tribute to Jack appears on page 22 of this issue. 
ROBERT L. VEENEMAN '47, Dec. 5, 1967, Miami, Fla. 
MARSHALL V. KEARNEY '48, March 20, 1963. Survivors include the widow, 2145 Ash Lane, Northbrook, HI., and a son PATRICK J. '61. 
GEORGE D. STEHLIN '54, April, 1967. 
FACULTY and STAF DEATHS 
Rev. JAMES P. GIBBONS CSC '25, Jan. 10, Holy Cross House. He was Holy Cross arohivist since 1959, faculty member at Holy Cross Seminary and his­tory prof, at St. Edward's U. for 20 yeais. He was the edi­tor of a seven-volume work. Our Catholic Heritage in Texas, 
Rev. THOMAS F. CADY CSC '41, De c 19, South Bend. He was a specialist in Latin and Greek on the N D faculty from 1950 to 1963 and since 1963 he had been a member of the mission band. Survivors include two brothers and a sister, all of Brighton, ilass. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 

PAUL MEYER, THOAAAS SHAFFER, BERNARD WARD, JAMES SECKINGER, TERRANCE KEUY Doing the job — in the Supreme Court and for the poor. 
Justice for ND Lawyers: Success Recognized 
P
AUL J. MEYER, who graduated cum 
laude from the Law School last 

June, has been appointed law clerk 
to Chief Justice Warren of the Su­
preme Court of the United States. He 
will begin his duties next summer. 
Mr. Meyer is presently law clerk to Justice Walter V. Schaefer of the Illinois Supreme Court. He was edi­tor-in-chief of Volume 42 of the Notre Dame Lawyer (1966-67). As Notre Dame's resident agent on the Supreme Court, he viiW succeed Francis M. Gregory '66L, Mr. Meyer's predecessor as Lawyer editor. Mr. Gregory is clerk this year to Justice William J. Brennan. 
In other Lawyer news, a note on unnecessary radiation in the use of X-rays (October, 1967, issue) by James H. Seckinger of the third-year class has already attracted ten re­print requests, along with acclaim from such certified experts as Dr. Karl 
Z. Morgan of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. 
Mr. Seckinger argued that the use of diagnostic X-rays accounts for 96 percent of all man-made radiation ex­posure, and that most of it could be eliminated without interfering with diagnosis. 
He argued for legislative control, rather than common-law remedies, noting that there is no practical pos­sibility of damage suits for radiation-induced injury because injury may not show up until years after exposure. 
Professor Bernard J. Ward's five years of patient effort on appellate rules for the federal courts of appeal will bear fruit next July 1. Since 1963, Professor Ward has been re­porter for the Supreme Court's com-
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 
mittee on rules on appellate proce­dure. The Supreme Court last month ordered the committee's rules im­plemented; only a Congressional veto could stop them now. 
Among other things, the new rules will reduce costs for Utigants on ap­peal and simplify the technical rules on pleading and brief preparation which have prevailed in some circuits. 
"The job of our committee," Pro­fessor Ward said, "was less one of in­novation than it was one of gathering the best practices which we found in studying all 11 courts and then con­vincing judges to adopt them uni­formly." 
Terrance R. Kelly, a member of the third-year class and Director of 
In the December Issue 
NOTRE DAME lAWYER 

John M. Manders '61, "The New Trend in State Regulation of Un­authorized Mail-Order Insurance Com­panies." 
Robert E. Keeton and Jeffrey (yCon­nell, "The Basic Protection Plan for Traffic Accident Cases." 
Stephen S. Boynton and H. Bradley Evans, Jr., "What Price Liability for Insurance Carriers Who Undertake Voluntary Safety Inspections?" 
Notes on Employer Motivation Under Section 8(a)(3) of the National Labor Relations Act, and Res Judicata in Patent-Office Practice. 
Case Comments on recent decisions in labor law; service of process on foreign corporations; civil rights actions against contractors who deal with racially exclusive craft unions; Sherman Act actions in refusal-to-deal cases; and limitation of liability in actions under, the Carriage of Goods by Sea Act. 
the Law School's L^^al Aid and De­
fender Association, has been a^varded 
a Reginald Heber Smith fellowship 
for work next year in the communi^ 
lawyer program administered by the 
University of Pennsylvania. Mr. Kelly 
will be assigned to legal services work 
for the poor. Several other members 
of the third-year class and at least 
one recent graduate of the Law 
School are also competing for fellow­
ships in the program. 
Professor Edward F. Barrett was appointed to the Committee on Advocacy of the Section on Judicial Administration of the American Bar^ Association. Judge William B. Jones, of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, chairs the committee. Professor Barrett,' whose apfwintment recognizes his many years of teaching trial advocacy at Notre Dame, is the only academic member of the committee, which is studying means of improving advo­cacy in the trial courts of the nation. 
— Thomas Shaffer. 

We Know How to Pick'Em 
Thomas L. Shaffer '61L, professor of law and ALUMNUS reporter' for the Law School, won a $1000 prize for his article on "Non-Estate Planning" in the December, 1966 issue of the 
Notre Dame Lawyer. 
The annual award presented by the Emil Brown Fund of Los Angeles is given for the best article advancing the concept of preventive law. Shaf­fer's story discussed wills for young family men, a subject he frequently details in talks before legal groups in other states. He has been on the ND faculty since 1963. 
s 
Clubs 
Ul INTER WINDS put gusto into ND " Club programs across the country. With football trips and parties past, committees went to work on plans for Universal ND Communion Day and holiday events. In Chicago the big affair was the annual Knute Rockne Awards Dinner. Cleveland Clubbers partied it up at a new event, a com­bined dance uith St. Mary's alumnae. Dean Thomas Bergin of the Center for Continuing Education took the Annual Alumni Seminar out "on the road" and the Indianapolis Club made news with a scholarship pre­sentation for SUMMA. 

Rockne Night in the Sherman House Dec. 4 was emceed by Vince Lloyd, "the voice of the Chicago Cubs." There were 116 high school boys nominated for the Rockne Awards and they and their coaches were guests of the Club. The public high school winner was Bill Bradley from Prosser Vocational HS; the Catholic high school wnner was Dawd Zuc­
• Football — past, present and future — was the topic at tile Chicago Club's annual Rockne Awards dinner. On page 37 Bill McGowan, pres. of the Indianapolis Club, is shown presenting a scholarship clieck to James W. Frick '31, vice­prcs. for public relations and development, and the Cleveland Dance committee posed while planning tlieir new event. Left to right in that picture are Richard Van .^uken '57, pres. ot N D Club; Julie DeBaggis, pres. of SMC Alumnae; and Ann Van Aukcn. 
IN CHICAGO. INDIANAPOIIS and CIEVEUND Busy Club programs past and present.* 
'TIS ALWAYS THE SEASON 
carelli from Mount Carmel HS; Ken­
neth Koranda, the Suburban League 
winner, was from Hinsdale Central 
HS. The awards are based on scho­
lastic, athletic and leadership abilities. 
A special recognition award was 
given to Elmer F. Layden '25 for his 
many outstanding contributions to the 
University. Trophies were presented 
by Judge Norman C. Barry '21, Bert 

L. Metzger '31 and Chet Grant. Coach Ara Parseghian \vas the guest speaker and his assistants and players were introduced. 
For years ND men and St. Mary's women have been dating and marry­ing and becoming friends but the to­getherness tradition was extended even farther this year when Greater Cleve­land area alumni of both schools sponsored a joint Christmas dinner dance. Riley Miller headed up the ND committee and Mrs. Thomas P. Carroll was the St Mary's chmrman for the affair in the Statier-Hilton. Proceeds from the dance went to scholarships for ND and St. Mary's students. Amateur statisticians esti­mate there are 25 or 30 ND-SMC husband and wife teams in Greater Cleveland. 
Indianapolis Club members hosted the first touring Alumni Seminar Jan. 
21. "Has Change Run Away With the Church?" was discussed by the 
four ND faculty members who pre­
sented the program last June and 
local Club members and ND friends 
participated as discussants. The same 
seminar program is scheduled for 

NYC Feb. 17 and Boston Feb. 18. 
The Indianapolis Club was also re­sponsible for another "first," a com­mitment of $20,000 during the SUMMA campaign. The five-year donation is an extension of the $4000 scholarship which the Club has been giving annually to an outstanding Indianapolis area freshman. 
From a Hucleus with Energy 
The first year's activity of the NYC area ND Science and Engineering Group has come to a successful end, reports Lloyd J. Forrestal '52, PhD '59, chairman. The Group began with a nucleus of about a dozen in­terested Alumni and the programs were planned at several luncheon meetings early last year. Tom Gilles­pie '39 and Abe Zoss '38 staged these early meetings, one of which was at­tended by Dr. Frederick Rossini, Uni­versity vice-president for research and sponsored programs. 
The first evenmg affair, chairmaned by Don Leis '44, was in May at the Chemists Club in Manhattan and Dr. Rossini reviewed recent progress in the College of Science and pointed up ways the Science and Engineering Group could be of service to the Uni­versity. Attendance at the meeting was modest (approximately 25) but at that time there was only an incom­plete mailing list — less than half its present size. Through the courtesy of Roger O'Reilly '48 the group now has its mailing list on an addressograph. 
In September there was a reception for Dean Joseph C. Hogan of the College of Engineering and Dean Ber­nard Waldman of the College of Sci­ence. Details of the affair, which followed a dinner attended by the deans and the Board of Governors, were arranged by Ed Gannon '37 and Roger O'Reilly. This time more than 50 members filled the Bogart Room of the Chemists Club and all hands were impressed by the presentations of the two deans, according to For­res tal. 
Dec. 2 the Group staged its first Science Seminar featuring Dr. Mor­ris Pollard of LOBUND. Dr. Pol­lard's discussion of germfree life re­search was heard by an audience predominated by high school science teachers and their students. 
Tom Gillespie, seminar chairman, and committee members Frank Sowa '30, Ted Broscoe '51 and Cy Wiggins '35 deserve special mention for mak­ing arrangements for the affair. Invi­tations were sent to 1500 high school teachers and the 700 members of the Science and Engineering Group. Ap­proximately 330 reservations were made in advance. Although a last-minute conflict developed with the College Board's Exam, which was also given that day, approximately 125 participants "made the scene." 
Another program which has en­
gendered considerable interest is the 
science and engineering employment 
clearinghouse which is being set up 
by Frank Sowa for the benefit of 
local Alumni. 
AKRONS 

A Kfonday Quarterback Luncheon was held 
throughout the football season. Attendance was 
only fair, however, and we hope to have a more 
attractive program next season. Interest in the 
team was very high around Akron this year, with 
many Alumni and friends attending games. 
Universal ND Communion Day was observed 
at Nc^vman Center, U. of Akron, Dec 8. Rev, 
JOSEPH BARRY CSC offered the Mass and 
our intention was that tlie SUMMA Campaign 
would be successful. A social hour followed. 
Our next major event will be the annual dinner-
dance Kfarch 16 and we expect a huge ttumout. 
Proceeds arc put into our scholarship fund. 
—JIM KEEGAN '59, Secretary 
ATLANTA 

In August the Club had its third annual Family 
Picnic at the Mathls Dairy Products grounds. 
The program was under the control and super­
vision of PETE MURRAY '64. Some 60 persons 
drank free beer and shared potluck picnic 
lunches. 
In October the Club, in conjunctioa vnth the local Michigan State Alumni group, attended what is now becoming a traditional event, their fifth annual meeting for the broadcast of the ND* Alichigan State game. Beer was provided by the Club and was consumed vnth reckless abandon through the first three quarters of the ball game. Tightened throats and pounding hearts restricted the ND consumption through the last 15 minutes, only to resume with welcome relief at the game's end. THOMAS GUNNING chairmaned this affair and was, incidentally, last seen rolling what little was left in the last keg toward his auto­mobile. 
In November, under the direction of Dr. ROB­ERT HOCKMAN '59 and JAMES A. EICHEL­BERGER '63, the Club conducted a series of events highlighting the ND-Gcorgia Tech weekend. Close to 1,000 people attended a lavish pre-game party at Atlanta's fabulous Regency Hotel. Spot­lighting the Friday night pre-game rally were some strange tribal dances by the Irish leprechaun and encouraging words by Rev. EDMUND JOYCE CSC and ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE, all to the strains of a 12-pIece orchestra. 
Others in attendance were JOE SIGNIAGO '46, past president of the Atlanta Club, and his 75 Memphis madmen. Saturday's pre-game activ­ities at the hotel included a marching band which sent the Victory March reverberating throughout the 22-story lobby at the Regency. Two thousand **kazooes" provided by the Club attempted to drown out or drive out all evil spirits. A post-game party attended by over 500 persons concluded a long, wieary but happy 36 to 3 day. 
Sunday Rev. Vincent Brennan SM, chaplain of the Club, concelebrated Mass with Rev. Thomas O'Donnell SM and Rev. Marianus Rizzuto SM in the main ballroom of the Regency. Some 1,100 persons attended. Mass was followed by a bnmch. 
The next time ND meets Georgia Tech in Atlanta is 1969. Everybody come. Our head­aches should all be little ones by then. 
—JAMES A. EICHELBERGER '63, Secretary 
=BILUNGS = 

Club members and wives attended the second fall party at the home of Mr. and Mrs. TOD DORAN '47. Mr. and Mis. RALPH STUDER JR '57 co-hosted the party. This was followed by dinner at the Red Lion Supper Club. Alumni attending Wen Dr. FRANCIS FORD '28, JAMES 
S. O'ROURKE JR '44, TOD DORAN '47, JOHN 
R. PADON '47, DEAN STUDER '57, RALPH STUDER JR '57, Dr. JEROME T. MILLER '55, BRUCE MACINTYRE '59, ROBERT STUDER '58, HOWARD HOENE, DON KELLEY '64 and BERNARD LONGO '41. 
—BRUCE.J. MaclNTYRE '59, Secretary 
3I0S10N 

The Chib acgauund a veiy mrmrinl raeaaam to 
the Mianii game, 115 pale llii>iniii»iii were treated 
to four and cme-haU wondiiful and somqr daj* 
on the beach capped off with an ^.T^* ^ win over 
Miami. ART MURPHY '39 awl JACK LAMERE 
'S3 did an outitan£ng Job in anangii^ tlie trip.' 
FRANK OONSOLATI '32, AL TORRISI 'SS. 
Rev. JACK FTIZGERALO '55, ALLEN SCHUL­
TE '65, JOHN McINEKNEY '45 and D. MAGA­
LETTA were among the beantiliil people at 
poolside. 
In eaHy November 130 memben and fiiends of 
the Club enjoyed an evening at Suffolk Dowms' 
Racetrack. An excellent job was performed by 
BILL FIETRUSIAK '58 in gatherii« the record-
setting turnout. 
Dec 10 the annual Comnnmion Breakfast 
capably chairmanned by DAVE MORRIS '57. 
was held at the Red Coach Grille. Father Gildea, 
head of the Jesuits in New England, gave an 
inspiring talk. Msgr. CORNELIUS DONOVAN 
'09, who recently celebrated his 50th anniveisarr 
as a priest, presided at the Mass. Dr. BROCK 
LYNCH '45 and CHUCK PATTERSON >44 are 
making plans for a seminar Sunday, Feb. 18. 
"Has Change Ron Away With the Chureh?" will, 
be discussed by five theok^ans from the Uni­
versity under the auspices of the Center for 
Continuing Education. 
Club members who are active in the local 
SUMMA drive include JOE GARGAN '52, 
HE.NRY BELANGER, BOB MARR '58, JACK 
KARLE '56, DICK McGOLDRICK '50, LOU 
DiGIOVANNI '49, CHUCK PATTERSON '44 
and PAUL HELMUTH '40, chairman. 
—RICHARD W. MURPHY '58, Fhsdent 
CENntAl jaSEY ^^ ^ 

The dub, under new Pm. HOWARD GIL­LESPIE, got off to a good start this year wiihi our Freshmen Reception Aug. 24 at the VaA Hotel in PlainfieM, NJ. Virtually all the income ing freshmen from our area attnided. We were lucky enough to catch JIM GIBBONS who anived in the area that day. Jim attended and gave an interesting and very frank talk to the boys and their parents. We had a good tumnrnt of Alumni, also. Some of the fellows attenifing were DICK CONNELLY, JACK CHRISTIAN, DAVE GIB­BONS, DAN GRACE, BILL MULLER, PAT KEALY and JIM LYONS. 
October, of course, found many of ns heavily 
involved in the SUMMA campa^n. While wc 
were all working hard at it, the foOomng deserve 
special mention: JACK MULLEN, JACK CHRIS­
TIAN, BILL RICHARDSON, WALT KAVAN­
AUGH, CHUCK COLLINS, JACK HOBLIT­
ZELL and GENE RAU. 
Dec. 10 found the dub gathered for Mass at St. Peter's Hosp. followed by our annual Con­munion Breakfast at the Roger Smith Hotel in New Brunswick. The affur, beaded by DICK CATENACCI, featured Father YannitelE SJ, pres­ident of St. Peter's CoL in Jersey City. Rather than present a canned q>eecb. Father Yarmitelli took the opportunity to convict a round table discussion on the issues facing Catholic h^hcr education today. Among those enjoying the affair were GEORGE KEENAN, CHUCK DOOLEY, WALT MAKUCK, TOM KEANNEALLY and BILL RICHARDSON. 
The event on the schedule for Fd>. 22 is the ND-NYU baiketbaU game. That ihooU be a good one. 
—DAVm E. COLLINS '56 

^^^^ aNONNATI ^^^ ^ 
At the annual Christmas Schobiifaip Dance at the Lookout Home Dec. 28, Francis L. Dale, e<£tor and publisher of Tlu ChuinumH Ernqmrtr, and Lawrence P. Rogers, presdent of Taft Broad­casting Co., accepted the Dome Award on behalf of the "Neediest Kids of AU," a charitable organ­ization co-sponsored by Th* SmqmtTtr and Taft Broadcasting. JOHN COTTINGHAM and BOB McCAFFERTY, with a 1% asnst from His. ANDY ROHAN, provided tor continnoas maac featuring two baiids, Pete Wagner and the New Limes. 
Area Chairman FRITZ SHAOLEY '48 finaGnd plans for the SUMMA Kick Off Pkngram Jan. 23. Fritz's assistant chairman h CHUCK LIMA '58; 
—LARRY KYTE '60, Secretary 
OEVBAND 

In a sinrit of ecmnemcaEsm, the alamnae of St. Mary's Col. joined with the Chb to sponsor the annual ChrisOnas Dance Dec. 9 at the Clevelaiid Statkr HoteL The Uemendoos success of tins 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 
dan(% indicates that future conspiracies may very well be in order, especially when there are excel­lent martinis and manhattans. Congratulations arc in order for Mrs. Julie DcBaggis, Mrs* Cathy Carroll, RILEY MILLER *59 and JOSEPH MAWBY '58 for the fine program offered to the members and their guests who attended this ycar*s dance. 
Dec, 4 coaches John Ray and George Scfcik were spei ^ guests at the annual Rockne Au-ard Dinner at which the outstanding area football players were honored. Chairman JIM RODGERS *49, assistant BOB LALLY *50 and a blue ribbon committee are to be commended for the many hours contributed during the scholastic football season here in Cle\'eland. Tlic turnout indicated that this is an event which is appreciated by the honorees and one that should be even better supported in the future. 
BOB DOWD '41 reminds those captains who have not yet made their returns on the Founda­tion Drive that the end of the drive is drawing near and to please complete their calls and make their returns as soon as possible. At press time the Club had reached in excess of two-tliirds of its goal of $1,100,000. 
—JOHN P. COYNE '54, Secretary 
COLUMBUS, OHIO 

A dozen Alumni gathered at the Columbus Atlilctic Club for an informal luncheon Nov. 7. Among those in attendance were DICK KASBERG *48, BOB KOSYDAR '53 and TIM WAGNER '66. Club officers are contemplating a monthly luncheon date which will require neither reser\-ation nor obligation—except payment of your own check. 
The annual Christmas Dance was altered some­what this year. A new band was hired; the date vras moved up a little; and the name \%'as changed. Voilat the annual Thanksgiving Dance. A hundred couples danced and made merry at the Christopher Inn and the Fighting Irish added to the celebration by defeating Kfiami that same night, Nov. 24. MIKE McDONALD and BOB DUSTERBERG '61 deserve special thanks for their help in making this dance successful. 
As this issue of the ALUMNUS goes to press, local Alumni are directing their efforts toward a successful SUAfMA campaign. The fcickolf dinner was at the Scioto Country Club Jan. 18. Rev. EDMUND P. JOYCE CSC and his team were the special guests for the evening. JOHN IGOE "28 is general chairman of the local SUMMA drive. JOHN A. DODD JR '56 is assistant chairman; BILL SLIFE '61, Alumni chairman; Patrick J. Kirwin, corporate; Richard Castrop, parents; Ray Connor, friends; and JOHN GUZ20 '62, kickoff dinner chairman. 
Club members are reminded to attend the busi­ness meeting in early &Iarch. Refreshments wiH be sen'cd and football highlights wU be shown. 
—DAN IGOE '65, Secretary 

^ ^ CONNECTICUT VAUEY ^ ^ 
Kew officers elected to a two-year term are FRANK LANE '5*, pres.; FLOYD lUCHARDS '42, %-ice-pres.; JOHN McGUfRE '62, sec.; RAY McKEON '28, tieas. At the same meeting the Club Constitution was amended and the Afan of the Year Atvard was given to JAAfES FLAHERTY JR '53. _ The SUMMA kickoff dinner at the Hotel Amei^ ica in Hartford Oct. 19 highlighted an active autumn. The dinner was capably chaired by DON FOSKETT '40. Other events included the annual Freshman Sendoff held at the City Club of Hartford Sept. 8. After dinner a review of the '66 football season was shown. 
JIM CASSroV '62 and PAUL S.ANNER '62 co-chaired the Communion Supper Dec. 10. A "folk" Afass was celebrated by Rev. John Kiley at St. Thomas Seminary in BloomSeld. Supper followed at the Tobacco Valley Inn. 
All of the Alumni' in the area have been in« volved with the SUMMA campaign. BOB Mc-GOLDRICK '56, SUMAIA chairman, thanks those who have donated their time and energy and appreciates the -response and cooperation of all concerned.—JOHN itcGUIRE '62, Secretary 
DAYTON 

Current officers are LOUIS KAVANAUGH '58, pres.; R. PETER FINKE, '59 vice-prcs.; RONALD HENNE, '57 iec; JAMES BUCKEN­MYER, '54 treas.' 
The annua] picnic was_ Aug. 27 at-the Aliami Valley Country Qub in' Dayton. The turnout was small due to'.40Jegree weather. New this year were planned games for the kids r\m by Pat Henne and Maureen Tehan. 
• For the' Golf Outing in September there was more inclement weather, but still 20 golfers matt­aged to get in 18 holes. Big winner was Dr* LOU HALEY. 
The Christinas Dance was De c 23 at tbe Christopher Club with lots of food, drink and merriment. 
The Club had its second annual raffle offering two tickets to the ND-Aliami game including plane fare and three nights with food and lodging. Tickets were very well accepted and provid^ additional income to the club. 
Approximately $1,500 was set up for use in the new scholarship fund. This will be a continuing thing. The trustees are FR.ANK AIcBRIDE, HERMAN ZITT, ED STEINER, TOM EISEN­HAUER and JAMES BROGAN. 
—RON HENNE '57, SccietarT 
DUBUQUE 

It's been quite some time since you had a report from our group. Just i^-ant to assure you that there is still plenty of N D spirit along this part of the Mississippi. We've had several activities during the past year \t1iicb we thought were fairly successful. 
The Football Banquet Jan. 18, 1967, wai organized by LOUIS PFEILER, chairman. There were 125 staunch Alumni, parents of students and friends of N D at the banquet at Timmermans Supper Club. After vietnng the filmed highlights of Uic '66 season, TOM RHODES gave us some firsthand accounts. LOUIS FAUTSCH did his usual outstanding job as MC. A discussion and social hour concluded the evening. 
The Summer Rcnic June 15 was—thanks to the generosity of BILL CLEMENS JR—a stag picnic at his cottage on Frentress Lake in East Dubuque. Twenty-six Alumni took part in the festinties and enjoyed a chicken dinner. Officers were elected as follows: Rev. WILLIAM KUNSCH '37, honorary pres.; MICHAEL B. WALSH '56, president; LOUIS PFEILER *64, vice-pres.; and TOM CODY '44, secretary^treas. 
The ND-Califomia game Sept. 23 was the fourth annual (at least we think it will be an annual affair) football excursion. It was rather a long day, but most agreed they'd travel 600 miles anytime to watch N D chalk up a victory. 
The following Alumni were in attendance at one or all of the above activities: Dr. H. W. CAREY, MAURICE NOONAN, Dr. FRANK CICCIARELLI, HENRY TRENKLE, JIM KLAUER, Rev. VINCENT HATT. JEAN SCHNEIDER, SIMON LOCHER, PAT MUL­GREW, DON FALEY, JOE RHOMBERG, JACK CODY. TOM LOOSBROCK, PAUL KEMPTER, BILL WHITE, BOB MURPHY, JACK MARGET, JIM KISTING, JIM SCHAHD. LOUIS RHOM­BERG. ROBERT KENLINE, FATHER DOLTER, WAYNE THURM, TOM NELSON, Rev. LOUIS ERNSDORFF, LEWIS MAJERUS, OZZIE DOLAN. 
—XnCHAEL B. WALSH '56, P^eadent 

^^^ = ELKHART, IND. ^^^ ^ 
There were several luncheon meetings of the Club during the fall vath \dsiting guests &om the University. 
At a luncheon at Gina's Shen\'ood Lounge Dec. 1, Joe Keman and David Paul gave their im­pressions of recent changes at the University from a student's standpoint. The discussion was in­teresting and informative and provoked lively exchange of opinions. 
At that meeting officers were elected for the forthcoming year. These officers are JAMES HAYES '49, pres., JOHN GILDEA '62, vice-pres., VICTOR ARKO *59. secretary-trcas. The Club expressed - its deep appreciation to JAMES ASH '33, the outgoing president, who had served ably during the past two years. 
JOHN R. GILDEA '62, Vice-Prendcnt 
FAIBHELD COUNTY. CONNECTICUT 

A total of 140 members, wives and children attended ND Family Communion Sunday at the Holy Protection Monastery in New Canaan. The Mass was sung in the Eastern Byzantine rite. Rev. Stephen Ptnchak OFM, vicar of the monas­tery, was celebrant assisted by Bro. George OFM. 
A brunch was served and the children had a, %'isit from St. Nicholas. Rev. ^farius McAuliffe OFM gave an inspirational talk to the adults and Brother Geoige explained the Byzantine rite, DENNIS 0'NEn.L '51 was chairman, asusted by JOHN FALVEY *52. 
A cocktail party is planned for February. ^LORING WEBBER '47, Secretazy 
•' FT. LAUDERDALE 

Things are a-buznng down this-away. Our social whirl started mth the ND-Michigan State TV party. BOB GORE was the high bidder for the door prize, an all-expense trip to Atlanta for the Georgia Tech game for two. 
Four hundred members, guests and friends attended a cocktail party and buffet dinner before attending the Miami-ND game in a body con­sisting of ten busloads of happy fans. They returned later to the Governors* Club Hotel for a wctory celebration. Chairman ED BASTIAN deserves a thank-you for a tough job well done. 
December e\'ents included our annual Com­munion breakfast. The Club voted to include all members of our families and, as an added in­centive, agreed to pick up the entire cost of the breakfast. Our own Rev. ALARTIN DEVEREAUX '56 said the Mass and gave the address. 
The January meeting featured the mo\'ies of The National Open of 1967. This being the last word from this administration, we all wish to thank those members who REALLY tried to make our jobs as pleasant and easy as possible. 
—GEORGE J. ERNST '29, Secretary 

^^ ^ FT. WAYNE, IND. ^^ ^ 
At the annual election of officers in October, the follouing were selected for the 1967-68 terms: JOHN R. DONNELLY, pres.; RONALD L. SOWERS, vice-pres.; DANIEL D. MUNSON, secretary-treas. 
&fembers and their sons attended the annual Mass and Communion Breakfast De c 10. The Mass was celebrated at Saint Vincent's Villa Chapel with &tsgr. William Lester, the Club <^plain, as celebrant and breakfast was at the Kcenan Hotel %rith His Excellency, the Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, Bishop oC Fort Wayne-South Bend, as speaker and guest of honor. 
We would like to remind all members and Alumni in the area that the monthly luncheon is continuing on the first Thursday of each month at the "Why Not" on the Landing. 
—DAN MXJNSON '54, Secretary-Treasurer 

^^^^ GREEN BAY ^^^^ 
De c 8 the Club observed Universal N D Family Corporate Communion in Green Bay. Klass at Resurrecdon Parish at 6 pm ^\'as followed by cocktails and dinner at the Beaumont Motor Inn. 
A representative of the new U. of Wisconsin at Green Bay was inWted. This university recently joined irith St. Norbert Col. and an explanation of the aims of this new university pronded a most interesting evening. 
—F. J. DEGA '56, Treasurer 

^^ ^ HARRISBURG, PA. ^^ ^ 
The fourth annual Sports Night of tbe Club was at the K of G Hall Aug. 11. More than 300 members and their guests enjoyed the reports of Coaches John Ray and Joe Yonto on the 1967 edition of the Fighting Irish. We proudlly in­troduced our latest candidate for football honoi^, Jeff Zimmerman. Alumni DICK LYNCH and MEL LARSEN, who were in town to coach the Pennsy All-Stars against Texas, also spoke. 
A large group was in Pittsburgh for the ND­Ktt^burgh game Nov. 11. The aforementioned Mr. Zimmerman did very well, thank you. 
Our observance of Communion Day was at St. Patrick's Cathedral in Harrisburg De c 10. Tbe IKocesan superintendent of schools. Rev. Walter Shaull, was our guest speaker. A large number of Alumni and their families attended. 
Club ^es . JOE ELLAM attended a meeting of Alumni Senators from Region 11 in Baltimore De c 1. Newcomers to the Central Pennsylvania area are invited to contact the ^mter at 717­737-6380. 
—FRANK GILLIS '42, Secretary 
= INDIANAPOUS ^^^ s 

The SUMMA dinner Oct. 17 was a tremendou5 success. The attendance was in excess of 450. Excellent food accompanied the fine talis given 
b . Father Hesburgh and his group irom the Uni­versity. 
Nov. 11 the Scholarship Ball was held at the Indianapolis Athletic Club. More than 120 couples tnjoTed tins annual affair. JOHN R. WELCH '47 was general chairman while JAMES WELCH '50 handled the Ta£9e. 
De c 3 was the date for the annua] com' nunion ' Brealtfast. The Mass wzs celebrated by Rev. MICHAEL MOONEY OFM '56 who came down from Chicago for the occasion. Honored Sncstsat'the breakfast, attended by 104 NO men, 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 19iS FEBRUARY 
were Archbishop Paul Schulte and the speaker. Canon Frank Carthy, rector of All Saints Episcopal church in Indianapolis. CHARLES WAGNER '54, assisted by DAVE FOY. DON WALTZ and JIM OCHS, handled all the details and it was a . delightful experience. 
The Indianapolis Athletic Club was the site for the Testimonial Dinner honoring Ara Parseghian and the 1967 football team Dec. 12. Coach Far­scghian and Coach John Ray, along with many of the seniors, were guests. BOB WELCH '50 was general chairman for this outstanding affair. He was assisted by BOB KESSING '49. Twenty-six local Alumni were sponsors for this event. 
TOM MURPHY '54 and ED McNAMARA '43 represented the laity of the archdiocese at the reception in honor of our new co-adjutor bishop. Archbishop Biskup. 
Dr. P.AUL MULLER '37 and ROBERT V. WELCH '50 were co-chairmen for the seminar on change in the Church Jan. 21. Five representa­tives from the University were on hand. 
Preliminary plans arc being made for UND Night at the Indianapolis Athletic Club April 22. EDMUND A. STEPHAN, chairman of the board of trustees, wU speak. Dr. TOM CARNEY '37 will introduce Mr. Stephan. 
FRED L. MAHAFFEY SR '17, a current director and post recipient of the ND Man of the Year award, died suddenly Nov. 10. May his soul rest in peace. 
—LEO C. McNAMARA JR '50, Secretary 

^^^^ JERSEY SHORE ^^^^ 
The Club trip to view the Irish basketball squad battle NYU Feb. 22 is under the chairmanship of DICK TIERNEY '54. Hopefully the bus trip and game ticket package will prove successful enough to become an annual Club activity. 
Other future plans call for the UND Night at the Shadowbrook in Shrewsbury with the tentative date of April 22 set. Co-chairmen for this year are BOB GIUNCO '57 and CHARLIE HESSE *57. 
The Dec 10 annual Communion Breakfast, under the chairmanship of JOHN WHITE '45 and '48, stressed the memorial Mass offered for the repose of the soul of Rev. Paul Kane, past chaplain and this year's Man of the Year. 
The second annual Fall Cocktail Party proved to be a most enjoyable afternoon of fellowship. Chainnen again this year were DICK CORDASCO '50 and DICK TIERNEY '54. 
Prcs. ED VOLL '48 is pleased wth the results of the new quarterly executive dinner meetings which have tended to add new life and interest to the Qub and will be continued. 
—CHARLIE KELLER '54, Secretary 
LA CROSSE, WISC.= 

Our new officers for the coming year are ROBERT YOUNG, pres.; Dr. PHILIP UTZ, vice-prcs.; BILL ROTH, secretary-trcas. These men were elected at the annual Communion Dinner at JERRY HEBERLEIN's Cerise Club Nov. 16. 
In addition to his duties as president of the Club, BOB YOUNG is also mayor of La Crescent Minn. 
—BILL ROTH '60, Secretary 

^^^= LOS ANGELES ^^^^ 
Aug. 5 J.ACK STEWART put together a fishing trip—second annual—that was a booming success* Aug. 19 Dr. LEO TURGEON hosted the seventh annual Stag Barbecue and Beer Bust. As alu-ays, it was a great get>together with ND Basketball Coach Johnny Dec and other sports celebrities on hand. 
Aug. 26 RON PARKER organized one of the best family picnics in years. With the help of Mattel—thanks to good oP JACK MORRIS '42— Parker and committee handed out about eight dozen toys to lots of deserving children. 
Sept. 12 the Club hosted a freshman send-off party for about 15 students and their parents at the Hollywood Roosevelt. GARY COOPER chaired the event and had slides and several speakers on hand to better prepare the group for their first winter in South Bend. 
Dec. 23 the ND basketball team was in town to take on the national champions, UCLA. We made arrangements for a block of tickets to be made available to Alumni and vacationing students. 
The really big event of the year was the kick­off cocktail party and dinner for SUMMA at the Century Plaza Jan. 17. 
^ = McHENRY COUNTY, III. ^^ 
The Club sponsored a concert of the ND Glee Club Jan. 7. The Glee Club is under the direction 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 
of Prof. Daniel H. Pedtle who has been director since 1938. 
Gcncial chairman of the project was GEORGE COSTELLO. He was assisted by DON FREUND (a former Glee Clubber), JOHN CORRIGAN, BILL RILEY, TOM RILEY, LEO POWERS and TOM HARDING. 
GREATER MIAMI 
Thanksgiving eve at the Deauville Hotel on Miami Beach was the scene of our RallyDaiice. And a big scene it was. More than 2000 Alumrn and friends attended. While the names of the many outHjf-town Alumni who signed our guest register at the hotel are too numerous to mention, we would like to thank all of you for contributing to the success of this evening. 
It was our Club's pleasure to sponsor this affair as it provided a focal point for the visiting Alumni from throughout the country to renew old friend­ships. None were disappointed at the Orange BovA Friday eve where our "Fighting Irish" won over the U. of Miami "Hurricanes" in a thrilling contest. 
GEORGE COURY '28 and Mrs. Coury hosted a celebration the day after the big game. Guests of honor included Rev. EDMUND JOYCE CSC, executive vice-president of the University, and Dr. and Mrs. Henry King Stanford. Dr. Stanford is president of the U. of Miami. 

During 1967 our Alumni were very active ia Club events. As a fitting climax to 1967 a Com­munion Break^t for Alumni and their families was held Dec. 17 at St. Agnes Church on Key Biscayne. 
—L. NICK MUELHAUPT '52, Secretary 
MILWAUKEE ^^^ ^ 

The fall Ffwtball Smoker was Sept. 21 under the co-chainnanship of JOHN SCHLOEGEL and Dr. KEN HOELSGHER. The main feature of the evening was a film highlight of the 1966 nadonal championship season. 
The annual Family Mass and Communion Break­fast was Dec. 2 at the St. Charles Boys Home with Father Bonaventiure as the guest speaker. Pres. JOE MESEC chairmanned the event. 
Bus trips for the Navy and Iowa games were arranged and conducted by TOM and GENE SMITH. 
—BILL LODGE '57, Secretary 

^^ ^ NASHVILLEr TENN. ^^ ^ 
Some of the Confederate money we've been savins was spent on an enjoyable weekend in Atlanta watching the ND-Gcorgia Tech game. In at­tendance were AL ABBEY, DICK BEVINGTON, BILL BREEN, BOB CAIN, PAT CARROLL, LOUIS DAUGHERTY, Dr. PHIL DAUGHERTY, BILL FAIMON, JOHN FLANIGEN, J M GREENWELL, JOHN GORHAM, JOHN HAR­WOOD, PAUL HEER, DICK MARTIN, VINCE WEBBY, DICK PRATHER, Dr. FRANCIS PAYAU, RAY RATKOWSKI, FRANK RHODES, CHARLES SUSANO, FRED SWINT, NICK VARELLO JR, TOM WERNER, Dr. CHARLES ZUZAK, LARRY MANDYCK, John Leinart and Nick Varello and their wives. Also in attendance were JIM BREEN, JIM CARELL, PAUL DOYLE and Rev. JOHN HENRICK. The Qub was housed at the Regency Hyatt which served as headquarteis for the weekend. 
—DICK MARTIN '54, Secretary-Treasurer 

^^^ ^ NEW JERSEY 
More than 200 persons attended the Freshman Welcome at the Hotel Suburban Sept. 7 in East Orange, NJ. This affair was handled magnificently by three recent graduates, ART ARMENTO, JEFF FLAGSTAD and TOM LIGGIO. 
Hon. Frank Scerfoo, prosecutor of Morrb county, was superb in his address to the freshmen who were spellbound by his excellent talk. HARRY DURKIN, our former prexy, was MG and was in his usual fine humor making a wonderful im­pression on the youngsters. 
New Jersey's list of 99 ranks high in the US but, more importantly, they were so impresave «nth their credentials and future plans that not a few of Alumni were glad they had already graduated. 
Refreshments were served after the ceremonies and a lucky freshman won a football autographed by the 1966 national champions. 
—THOMAS V. LONGO '66, Secretary 
OHIO VALLEY ^^^ ^ 

ND Alumni and guests gathered at the McLure Hotel in Wheeling, W. Va. Oct. 28 for the anb'i annual TV partr to watch the ND-Mich^aa 
State game. The foDomng attended with thdr 
whres: HARRY BUCH '52 and '5J, JERRY SHEA 
'56, Gcofge FenSaand, Bin Ilynn, Joe Kellr 
(btber of JOE JK '63), George Petnpha and 
Ed Hughes. Abo present were BILL BUCH '39. 
BILL HOGAN '51, BILL UTTSCH '33. B>t 
CarduUa and Jim CVunpanion. 
Nov. 11 46 NO Ahmmt and fiiends attended 

the ND-Fitt game in a spedalhr chartered bos. 
BOB SINCAVICH '50, JIU DAILER '30 and 
JIM HARANZO made all the arrangements, fto­
ceeds of the venture were donated to the N D 
Foundation. 
—BILL HTTSCH '33, Seeretarr-Treasiirer 
OREGON^ 

The Club's annual Commniuon Breakfast was Dec. 10. Among those in attendance %rith wives and chOdien were BOB IlERZ, DICK HEND­RICKS, BOB WACK, JIM HORAN, TOM MAGEE, I^TE SANDROCK, MIKE THIEL. CHARLIE SLATT. RUSS NIEHAUS, TOM TOMJACK, FRANK NASH, ED SOOriT. MIKE WHITE, JOHN HAUGH, FHELAN THOMP­SON, BILL SCHMirr, GEORGE MACK and BILL FLATLEY. 
RAY MARTIN, nce-pres., reported on his parddpaticm at the western rcgiinial meeting of the Alumni senatois. The officeis have requested Club members to come forth «nth ideas in planning for UND Night. 
—MIKR nUXt£, Seuelaiy-Tieasmcr 
PAKISTAN 

Rev. HOWARD KENNA '26, '32 and '53, Fh>­
vindal from Indiana, was a wdcome vintor to 
the Holy Cross commnnitr m East Bddstan 
Dec. 19 tfaraugh Jan. 6. 
—REV. F. J. BURTON CSC. Secretary 
' PENSACOIA, HA.' 

The Club made great strides during 1967—all 
goals established were met with an enthusiasm 
to make 1968 goals even greater. 
At the annual meeting last January LEON 

DULION '54 was elected pres. "HighUghts at 
Notre Dame Football 1966" was shown and 
election of other officers was carried oat. LARRY 
McCORMACK '49 was elected to the newly 
established post of executive secretary and the 
club went forward with plans for UND Night in 
May. JIM ARMSTRONG was guest speaker at 
that cocktaH and dinner party attended by more 
than 100. 
Next was the TV Taztf for the ND-Mirhigan State game. Ninety chose this opportunity to make the work of BILL SOULE's ('61) com­mittee a great success. And then, the idng on the cake, so to say^-on to Atlanta and the ND-Georgia Tech Game with fanfare. Oor daily Pensacota News-Jomrmti went all out to announce to all fu- and near that the ND Chib of Pensa­cota was "go—go." More than 40 membeis of the Qub and their wives pbs 50 more Flensa^ colians journeyed by car, bus and plane to jmn with the Atlanta Club in their festhnties. ^ 
I guess we should .take some.credit wth Aia in helping establish a record for attendance at the Sport Association Dinner in. March at which Ara Puseghian was guest speaker. Aia hauled them in! 
—TOM KANE '57. FrKadent 
sROCHESTO, N.Y. 

At a combination business meeting-luncheon Nov. 4, the ND Women's Qub announced plans for the annual Christmas buitcake sale for the benefit of the Scholarship .'Fund. Mrs. D. BERNARD' HENNESSY was chairman, assisted by Mn. J. WILLIAM REEVES. After the Imsiness meeting the good laiEes were both entertained and in­formed by Congressman Frank Horton who sgoke on cuirent legislation of local and national interest. Co-chairmen Mma. JOHN CASEY and JOHN BURKE were asnstcd by Mmes. THOMAS HARTZELL and PETER CONNOLLY. 
It is with regret we note the passing of. CUb membeis ROBERT FKESCOTT '31 and '33 and CHARLES MORRIS '35, victims of heart at­tacks; abb, HANS GRAUERT Who was killed during his third tour of duty in Vietnam-
Dedicated effort b always conmendable; it a doubly so when coupled with visible achievement. That is a rather -itudequate description of the duection provided by PHIL VAN OER KARR '58 (with lots, of help fram EDen) to the vpy successful Scholarship Fund Rafle. MK E COLITZ '61 sold the winning ticket to Xen s co-worker 
3? 

Nancy Lippa, who was able to spend Thanksgiving 
weekend in sunny Miami. For his salesmanship, 
MIKE will receive a March, 1934 Readers Digest 
from his Rafl3e Captain JERRY SCHOEXHERR 
'55. The presentation will follow a White Tower 
dinner on St. Swithin's Day. The drawing itself 
turned out to be quite a get-together—Prcs. ROY 
HANNA, VP GENE YURGEALITIS '57, JIM 
DOYLE '51. BILL O'CONNELL *50 and FRANK 
CONSLER all resisted the temptation to abscond 
with the Raffle funds and flee to Brazil. As soon 
as the winner was drawn, ARXIE MORRISON 
'35 demanded a recount, or recall, or plebiscite, 
or something. And DICK KLEE was bemoaning 
his continued bad luck—seems he dropped five on 
this year's ND-Purdue game, then lost another 
deuce on the game's TV replay Sunday morning. 
At a Nov. 16 business meeting the new Club 
Constitution and the Scholarship Fund Trust 
Agreement were passed. The Constitution Com­
mittee consisted of JIM DOYLE '51. JIM M.A­
SO.V '56, JERRY CURR.A.V '55. VIC DESI.MOX 
'46, VP GENE YUGEALITIS '57 and Pres. ROY 
HANNA. JERRY CURRAN '56 was the Trust 
Fund Committee chainnan. The new Constitution 
wtis discussed and approved (no mean feat in New 
York State, where Constitutions have problems). 
The document replaces the former Club Con­
stitution, which is believed to be under study by 
the same people who discovered the Dead Sea 
ScroKs. 
Other recent actiWties included the annual 
Communion Breakfast Dec. 10, JOHN NOLAN 
'42 Chairman, and the annual ChristmsLS Dance 
Dec.-29. 
—BOB DEWEY '54, Secretary 
= ROME = 

Our Notre Dame Hospitality Center at Largo Brancaccio 82 (near central rail-atr terminal) is open e\'ery day from noon to nine. On arrival zing us at 730002. Romccomers sliould know that public Papal audiences by PAUL VI LLD '60 arc Wedncsdaj-s at U am. His public Papal blessing is at noon Sundays and Holy Da\-s. 
We welcome to Roman residence H.ARRISON 
PIERCE '65 to continue liis medical studies at 
Rome U. 
Distinguished guests have included ND Executive Vice-pres. Rev. EDMU.ND JOYCE CSC, ac­companied- by his mother, aunt and brother Lyie. 
Christmas merninaking guests included the combined ND-Abroad students intcr-graced by St. Mary's girls from Angers, France and Innsbruck. Wc regretted our Tokyo abroaders could not hop in for our open house after Midnight Alass and noonday Christmas turkey dinner. 
Others signing the guest book were Dr. ROBERT DESMOND '57 and wife; Rev. JOHN WILSON CSC '32; Dr. VINCENT De SANTIS, head of tlie history dcpt.. Rev. CRONAN KELLY OFM '37; LEO VOGEL JR *49; PETE HIG­GENS '54 and wife; BOB SANFORD '40 and wife; GEORGE O'CONNOR '31; JOHN BURKE '60; and Fathers SCHNEIDER and MASSART CSC. 
Also, the brother of our vice-pres., JOE DE LIA '47, Dr. EMILIO DE LI A '35; the daughter of WILLIAM McN.ALLY '1862 who later became Br. JOSEPH CALASANCTIUS CSC; uncle of JOE CRECCA '65; sister of TOM RINK '67; sister of HARRY LONG '66, wimse uncle is LEN SKOGLAND '37. Alumni from other schools darkening our door^ray and brightening our lounge represented Providence, Alanhattan, Indiana, Illi­nois, St. Bonaventure, Loyola and Northeastern. 
—VINCE McALOOX '34, Secretary 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY ^^ ^ INDIANA 

Nov. 30 the 48th Annual Testimonial Football Banquet was held on Campus with THOMAS 
F. HAMMER *57 as general chairman and WIL­LL\M B. KILLILEA '60 as ticket chairman. The banquet was a succccss, as usual, with Father Hcsburgh representing the University and Morris Frank of The Houston Chronicle being the toast­master and principal speaker. George Kunz and Bob Olson were elected co-captains for next year and the audience gave them a hearty cheer to continue the tremendous record Ara has set the last four seasons. 
ROBERT S. inCHAU D '50, pres., indicated the next function would be the family Com­munion Breakfast in January on the Campus. 
JEROME B. KEARNS '61 has been elected by Rotary International to represent the Northern portion of Indiana on a group study exchange program that will take him to New Zealand and the Fiji Islands from January through April. His 
NEW OFFICERS for the ND Club of Decatur, ill. include a chaplain who is pastor of Westminster Presbyterian Church in Decatur. Rev. Robert 
S. Stewart '41, '48L has three brothers who are also Presbyterian ministers. Pictured (seated, left to right) ore John Dunn '58, *60L, pres., and Rev. Stewart. Standing ore. Patrick Nolan '63, vice-pres.; Dr. Edward Kovol '50, treas.; and Stephen G. Graliker *42, sec. 
mission ^\^ll be to further international under­standing and good will and make lasting friend­ships with the people of that area. We send Jerry our congratulations and our assurance we know he will do an excellent job. 
—BILL FARABAUGH '51 
ST. LOUIS' 

Our Club reports have missed the last several ALUMNUS publications, so this report will com­mence with the election of officers and Board of Directors meeting April 5. The officers elected for 1967-68 are JOSEPH F. DWYER JR '58, pres.; JOHN R. POWERS JR '53, secretary-treas.; CHARLES H. WITTENBERG '57, vice-pres. for activities; WILLIAM OTTEN '62, vice-pres. for University actin'ties; and ALAN FITZGIBBON '53, vice-pres. for publicity. 
On the Board of Directors are the officers and JOSEPH B. McGLYNN JR '55, RICHARD F. ASH '54, RICHARD J. CONNERS JR '63, MILTON BEAUDINE '54, JOHN R. BOYCE '59, ANTHONY RIBAUDO '59, ROBERT HELI^ RUNG '63, PAUL GUND '63, ROBERT Mc­GLYNN '51. JOHN J. PHELAN '56 and JO­SEPH LAUBER '51. 
Next on the activity list for 1967 was UN D Night April 8. Outgoing Pres. Joe McGlynn did an outstanding job as chairman. The festivities started with evening Mass and cocktails and din­ner followed at the Colony Inn. The main speaker was Rev. Edward H. Kcllar CSC. The high­light of the evening was the naming of the **Maii of the Year," HERMAN KRIEGSHAUSER '54. The crowd of 250 was entertained by the Montfort Singers, followed by dancing until 1 am. Quite an agenda, and we all thank Joe for an evening that will be difficult to duplicate. 
June 25 a Family Picnic was attended by 220 Alumni, friends and family at the ver>* beautiful Maryknoll Seminary. Our thanks to the Mary-knoll Fathers for the use of their fine facilities and the effort put forth by DON DOHENY, Joe Dwyer, DON RATCHFORD '50, AI Fitzgibbon, Joe McGlynn and Bob McGlynn in making the re­newal of this event successful. 
Aug. 23 was our annual Golf Day Sports Night. GENE FEHLIG '43 won the golf trophy with a Io\v gross of 70. This was the 11th year in a row Gene won this event and wc have already engraved his name on next year's trophy. Marty Blake, general manager of the St. Louis Hawlu basketball team, was master of ceremonies and is now rivaling Jack Buck and Wally Phillips in this area. Richie Guerrin, coach of the Hawks, was the featured speaker and gave us a preview of what to expect in '67-'68. The Hawks' plans include JAY MILLER '65. Paul Gund and -Al Fitzgibbon were responsible for this fine event at Green Trails Country Club wWch was attended by more than 50 Alumni. 
Sept. 12 was Freshman Night at the Gene Fehltg residence and was attended by 20 fresh­men and their fathers. Bill Otten was chairman of this event. 
- The next activity was the annual football special 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1963 FEBRUARY 

weekend to \vatch the Fighting Irish play Navy Nov, 4. —JACK POWERS '53, Secretary 
^^ = SAN DIEGO, CAUF. • 
Congratulations arc in order for MIKE SCHAFER 
'60 on his election to a second term on the San 
Diego City Council. 
The Club enjoyed the Michigan State game and 
luncheon together at the Football TV Party at 
the Admiral Kidd Club this year. Arrangements 
were Iiandled by MARV RICKLING '52. 
Dec. 10 the Club obser\'ed ND Communion 
Sunday by attending evening Mass at Blessed 
Sacrament Church followed by a dinner and 
social at the Lafayette Motel Red Fox Inn. 
JOHN MORGAN '50 was chairman of the event. 
—RICHARD HESSLING '49, Secretary 

^^ ^ SPOKANE, WASH. ^^ ^ 
Universal Alumni Communion Sunday was 
obscn'cd Dec. 10. Mass at Our Lady of Lourdcs 
Cathedral was followed by breakfast at the Spokane 
Club. Guest speaker was Rev. KlichacI O^Neill, 
son of JOHN P. O'NEILL '29. Father O'Neill 
is diocesan superintendent of education and gave 
a ver>- interesting and informative talk on the 
past and the future of Catholic Education. 
The event was attended by parents of some of 
the 11 Spokane bo>*s who arc now attending the 
University and by the following members^ their 
friends and wives: ED BETHKE '28; FRANK 
HAGEXBARTH '27; JACK HESKETT '63; 
CLAIR KEARNS '33; TOM LALLY '06; Dr. 
DEE J. McGONIGLE '52; GARY MYERS '59; 
JOHN P. O'NEILL '29; BOB ROTCHFORD 
'49; HAROLD SHEERAN '50; DICK ST. JOHN 
'56; JOE WALSH '14. .Also in attendance were 
Sister ^L^RGARET DECKER FCSP '64 and 
Sister Monica Mary FCSP. 
The following new officers were elected after the breakfast: RICHARD J. ST. JOHN '56, pres.; JOHN G. HESKETT '63, vice-prcs.; and JOE W.ALSH '14, secretary-trcas. Retiring Pres. Dr. DEE J. McGONIGLE '52 %vas the master of ceremonies. 
Plans are being made for the annual Potluck Supper in February. The 1967 Football High­lights film will be shoivn at this alv^-ays-popular event. 
—JOE WALSH '14, Secretary-Treasurer 
TERRE HAUTE, IND. 

The Club %vas very active during the fall. Pres. FRED CHRISTMAN '43 set up many projects. Nov, 16 JOHN CHRISTEN '60 arranged a luncheon in honor of Rev. Charles Shecdy CSC who was in Tcrrc Haute to attend special meet­ings at Indiana State U. A large percentage of members turned out to greet Father Sheedy. 
Nov. 28 Club members attended the salute dinner honoring Stran Steel Corp. Plant Mgr. BERNIE BURDICK. Burdick is a past pres. of the Club, is current secretary and ND Man of the Year. Dec. 10 LOUIE STEGAR and MIKE KEARNS arranged for the Chib to celebrate ND Communion Sunday. Rev. JOSEPH A. ROGUSZ CSC, chaplain of the Club, was celebrant of the Mass at Sacred Heart. Lt. Col. Emmctt L. Walsh, senior chaplain of the US Army, was the speaker at the breakfast. 
Ctub Directory­
Angeles
ALABAMA Los

JIM SULLIVAN and MYRON BUSBY JR were co-chairmen of the annual Football Dinner in January. The Club has two new newlyweds. MIKE KEARNS '60 married Linda Burdick of Tcrrc Haute and MYRON BUSBY JR '63 married Pauline Gattic of Maryland. 
= TOKYO = 

The Club was pleased to ivelcome 13 N D sopho­mores who arc studying this academic year at Sophia U. in Tokyo and Dr. Robert Gordon of the biology dept. 
The Club is two years old and consists of 18 Japanese members and seven "gaijin" or foreigners. We welcome all ND friends and Alumni to Japan. If you plan to visit Japan, please contact Rev. Bcdc Fitzpatrick, Franciscan Chapel Center, Rop­pongi 4-cIiomc, 2-37, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Tel: 408-6957. We look forward to seeing you ia Tokyo. 
Dr. LEWIS G. TAFT '56 and '63 
TWIN CITIES, MINN. s 

The Club has been going strong the last two years. The officers are AL FILERS '53, pres.; JACK PATZ '56, first vice-pres.; JON RITTEN '65, second vice-prcs.; BOB BURNS '55, sec; LARRY KENNEDY '56, treas.; and Dr. PAT­RICK J. BARRETT '51, chairman of the board. 
The auxiliary has alwu>'s been very active. They meet four times during the year for lunch and have a couples' potluck dinner party which was as usual, a smashing success Nov. 10 with 46 couples attending. A buffet, door prizes, music and meeting ALAN PAGE '67, Minn. Vikings star, and his wife Lorraine made it a great party. 
The annual Christmas Ball was at Holiday Inn, Central in Minneapolis Dec. 27. JACK ALEX­ANDER '53 was chairman. 
Maureen and I are writing this on the NWA fan jet taking us to the big Miami game. I'm a pilot for the airline and aU\'a>*s looking for fellow Alumni among the passengers. 
—BOB BUR.\S '55, Secretary 
= UTAH s 

In attendance at a Club-sponsored trip to Logan, Utah for the ND-Utah State basketball game Dec. 21 were TED B.ARES, DON RONEY, BILL ALLEN, CHUCK BENNETT, FRANK CALLAHAN and Rev. BERNARD P. FOLEY CSC. £vcr>-one had a good time on the trip and welcomed the opportunity to cheer the Irish in person. UND Night this spring was discussed at a brief business meeting. 
—BILL POGUE '61, Secretary 

^^ ^ WASHINGTON, D.C. • 
Oct. 25, 26 Club members and friends went to Shenandoah Downs in West Virginia for a night at the races. BILL MIDDENDORF w-as the big winner for the evening as just about everyone else brolcc even. The track named one of the races in the Club's honor, but no one in our group won on that race. Some of the Club members in attendance u-cre JOHN DALY, BILL BURNETTE, PHIL DARMODY and ED DU­QUETTE. 
A small but vocal group of Alumni attended the ND-MSU TV party at a local K of C. We had a color TV for the occasion and assorted refreshments were availsble. DAN CULHASZ, CLIFF LETCHER, JOE FTTZUAUIUCE, RAY­MOND RAEDY, DICK SHIPMAN, DENIS NOLAN, BiU Middendorf and JOE STJLLIVAN were among those in attendance. 
Club Vice-pres. JACK LOWE was tlie Koot­master on the Club's trip to Pittsburgh for the ND-PtlT game Nov. U. We were scheduled to leave at 7 am, but a couple of people couldn't seem to find the bus at that hour. Mter a detour at Gaithersbui^, Md., all were rounded np and the trip got under way and made it to the stadium in plenty of time. Phil Danoody, JOHN MEAGH­ER, Bill Middendorf, Father Den of Holy Crass Col. and RAY DEELY were some of the Club membeis to make the trip. 
The Club held its annual bu^ess meeting Nov. 14 at the Roma Restaurant in Washington. Club Officers FRANK McCARTHY. JACK LOWE and Raymond Raedy presided over various parts of the meeUng. "DUTCH" BERGMAN was the featured speaker and he told of his many eo­counten with KNtTTE ROCKNE, the "GIP­PER," the University hierarchy and St. Mary's. For the information of some of Dutch's many friends arotmd the country, he is currently the manager of the DC Stadium and Armory Board. Club members attending were BOB HUTCHISON, JOE MALONEY, PAT CONWAY, AL VIRO­STEK, Rev. GEORGE BERNARD, FR-ANK BEYTEGH, GEORGE HOWARD, BILL KAV­ANAUGH, VAL DEALE, TIM TOOMY, JOE FITZMAURICE, CUFF LETCHER. ART DE­LANEY, G. ^ HAAS and JACK BRADY. 
De c 10 the Club held its Fathei^Son Com­munion Breakfast at Holy Cross Col. Rev. George Bernard, the Club chaplain, was the celebrant and Rev. John J. McGrath «ras the breakfast speaker. Father McGrath was a prof, of com­parative law at Catholic U. in Washington and took over as acting pres. of St. Mary's Col. Jan. 
1. Those in attendance were WALT BRENNAN, ED HARGAN, JOE LIBBY, JACK LOWE, Raymond Raedy, JACK BRADY, VINCE HAN­RAHAN, HARRY KIRK, RUDOLPH RICE, JOHN KENKEL, HARRY DUTKO, CHUCK KEARNEY, AL VIROSTEK, PAUL LOCHER, PAT CONWAY, LARRY^ MOORE, BOB COONEY, JACK WALKER, Ed Duquette and CLIFF LETCHER. 
The Club, after much blood, sweat and tears, was able to distribute a directory of all dues-paying members. It is the first directory put out locally in over 10 years. Other recent Club actiWttes included a Christmas Dance Dec. 28 at the Shoreham Hotel and the SUMMA Dinner Jan. 2S. Reports on these events mil be in the next issue. 
—RAYMOND RAEDY '62, Treasurer 

^^^s YOUNGSTOWN ^^^s 
At a Club meeting at the Colonial House, the following new officers were chosen to lead the Club during the coming year: EMMET J. TYR­RELL '60, pres; PHILUP J. PROSSER '58, vice-pres; PAUL P. SZYMANSKl '59, sec ; DONALD A. GRANETO '49, treas. A special guest from the University %>as JOHN CROWE who presented the highlights of the _ SUMMA program and joined with the members in making plans for the kicl-^ff dinner at the Hotel Ohio in Youngstown in January. 
—PAUL P. SZYMANSKl '59, Secretary 

— Thomas W. Powers, Denver — Edward M. Mahoney, '52, Ft. Lauderdale—Edward J. Trom­
'56, 3205 Nebraska PI., Costa Xfcsa, 950 Broadway, Denver, Colo. 80201 betta '60, 111 E. Las Olas Blvd., 
John A. O'Brien, Jr., '51, 2133 Vestridgc Dr., Birmingham, Ala. CONNECTICUT 
Calif. Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 33301 
San^ Francisco Bay Area—Thomas J. 
ALASKA Connecticut Valley—Frank W. Lane Greater Miami—John W. Thornton, 
Kernan '55^ 18 Fair Oaks Lane, 
John S. Hcllenthal '35, Box 941, '54. 260 Oak St., Wapping, Conn. '50, 9th Floor Dade Federal Bldg., 
Athcrton, Calif. 94025 
Anchorage, Alaska 06087 Miami, Fla. 33131 
Orange County—^Thomas J. Getzing-Fairfield County—^William Harrington North f/o. —Robert W. ScheBen-ARIZONA er, '53, 2323 Almira, Fullcrton, Jr. '48, 29 Waverly Rd., Darien, bers, '48, 6842 San Sebastian Ave., 
P/ioeni.t—Thomas J. Smith '59, 3535 Calif. 
Conn. 06820 Jacksonville, Fla. 
W. Oregon Ave., I'lioenix, Arir. Sacramento—Frank Gcrcmia Jr. *60, Nausatuck — Thomas K. Hubbard, 
Pafnt Beach County—Hr. James F. 

85019 8424 Lake Forest Dr. Sacramento, '56. P.O. Box 84, Litchfield, Conn. 
Cooney '45, 3518 Broadway, West 

Tucson—I. "Buddy" Goldman, '36, Calif. 06759 3932 E. Poe, Tucson, Ariz. 
Pabn Beach, Fla. 33404 

San Diego—Charles F. Vandegrift '56, New Haven—Ht. Robert T. Warner, 
Pensacola—Leon V. Dulion, '54. 646 

8G12 Wamiwell Dr. San Diego, '53, 1960 Whitney Ave., Hamden 
ARKANSAS Whitney Dr., Pensacob, Fla. 32503. Fort Smith—James A. Gilkcr, '48, St. PetersbuTt-Tampa — Mark £ . 
Calif. 92119 17, Conn. 3715 Free Ferry Rd., Fort Smith, San Gabriel Valley — William T. DELAWARE Mooney, '26, 4523 Gaines Rd., 
Ark. Huston '51, 1217 IBM Bldg.. 3424 Robert E. Daley '58, 1212 Crestover Tampa, Fla. 
Little Rock—James E. Madican, *43, Wilshirc Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif. Rd., Graylyn Crest, Wilmington, 4617 Crcstwood, Little Rock. Ark. 90005 Del. 19803 GEORGIA San Jose—^Theodore Sobicralski '54, Atlanta—J. Thomas Gunning '57, 
CALIFORNIA DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 4253 Ashwoody Trail, N.E., Atlao-
P.O. Box 504, Sunnj-vale, Cal. 1415 18th St., Apt. 316, Bakctslield, 94088 ing Lane, Bethesda, Md. 20014 Calif. COLORADO HAWAn 
Baiersfitld—Kiclard L. Bamctt, '56, Frank E. McCarthy '56, 4515 Hard­ta. Ga. 30319 
FLORIDA 

Central—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Secre­Albert Lum '37, Chaminade College 
Colorado Springs—^Joseph A. Reich 
tary), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Central Fla. — William H. Ricke, '36, of Honolulu, 3140 Waialae Ave., Calif. 2045 Fahnouth Rd., Mailland, Fla. Honolulu. Hawaii 96816 
Jr. '57, 712 Scorpio Cr., Colorado Springs, Colo. 80906 
32751 

ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 41 
roAHo 

Francis H. Hicls, '49, 1180 Phelps Circle, Mountain Home, Idaho. Idaho Falls — James M. Bradv, '29, 
P.O. Box 2148, Idaho FaUs, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS 

Aurora — Eugene G. GriiHn '57, Murphy & Griffin, 340 N. Lake St., Aurora, 111. 60506 
Central ///inou—Albert O. Eck, Jr., '58, Old Jaclsom-ille Rd., Spring­field, III. . ,„ 
Chicasa—^.Anthony G. Girolami '43, 1849 Civic Center, Chicago, 111. 60622 
Dccalur—John F. Dunn '58, 523 Sheffield Dr. Decatur, IB. 62525 
Eastern 111.—Maurice F. Stauder '41, 26 Lake Shore Dr. Dam-illc, 111. 61832 
I'ox ('a/Icy —George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St.. Elgin. III. /oKcl—Richard E. McHugh, '43, 
R.R. 2, Manhattan, III. 
McHcnry County — Leo J. Powers '25, 315 Waovick Lane, Crj-stal Lake, 111. 60014 
Peoria — Robert E. Manning '60, 304 First National Bank BIdg., Peoria. III. 61603 
Rockfori—John F. Siranson, '62, 426 Seventh St., Rockford, 111. 61110 
Rock River Valley — Paul L. Berrct­tini '56, R.R. 1, Plum HoUow Rd., Dkon, III. 61021 
Southern Cook County — Robert N . CatTarelli, '55, 20851 Sparta Lane, Olj-mpia Fields, 111. 60461 
INDLVNA 

Calumet District—Taaothy P. Galvin Jr. '59. 237 Gregory Ave., Munstcr, Ind. 46321 
Eastern Indiana—Da«d D. Wilson '54. 116 S. High St., Hartford City, Ind. 47248 
Elkhart—jTimts E. Hayes '49, 1715 E. Jackson Blvd., Elkhart. Ind. 46al4 
For( (f'ayiic—John R. Donnelly '50, 1357 W. Shcnvood Terr., Ft. Wa%-nc, Ind. 46807 
JnAanopo/is—William K. ilcGowan Jr. '57, 7520 HoUiday Dr. West, Indianapolis, Ind. 46260 
Michigan City — Stephen E. Janus '57, 1415 Washington St., Michigan Cit)-. Ind. 46360 
St. Joseph Valley — Robert H. Michaud '50, 1821 Rocknc Dr., South Bend, Ind. 46617 
Terre Haute — Fred G. ChrisUnan, Sr. '43, 1406 Wabash Ave., Terre Haute, Ind. 47801 
Tri-Slatc — Robert E. Griffin '57, In­dian Archery Corp.. 16 Cbrk St., E\-ansville, Ind. 47708 
IOWA 

BurKne»on—Vem H. Brinck '48. 501 
N. Sixth, Burlington, loira 52601 
Des Moines—^Joseph Bisignano '59, 2821 Patricia Dr., Des Moines, Iowa 50322 
Dubuque — Michael B. Walsh '56, 
B. C. Zicgler & Co., 1003 Amer­ican Trust Bldg., Dubuque, Iowa 52001 
Stoux-Land — Raymond B. Duggan, '43, 3244 Jackson, Sioux City 4, Iowa. 
Quad Cities—James J. Coryn '54, 312 First Nat'l Bank BIdg., Rock Ishtnd, m . 61201 
KANSAS 

Eastern Kansas—T. Henry DcvKn, 'i9, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. Solino—Albert J. McLean, '31, 1410 Hichland Ave.. Salina, Kan. Wichita—Vim. T. Dantt. '56, 204 Bitting BIdg., Wichita, Kan. 67202 
KENTUCKY 

Robert G. HueC, Jr., '58, 12310 Davidson Dr., Woodland Hills, llliddletown, Ky. 
LOUISIANA 

New Orleans—Paul E. Hurley '56, 225 Baronne St., New Orleans, La. 70112. 
Northern Louisiana—^Dr, Edtvaid R. Morgan, '44, 803 Jordaa St., Shreveport. Iji. 
MAINE 

Jess F. DeLois '42, R.FJ). 2, Bruns­wick, Iblaine 04011 
MARYLAND 

Baltimore—^Raymond T. Bender '61, 914 Starbit Rd., Baltimore, Md. 21204 
MASSACHUSETTS 

Berkshire County—Harold C. Mc-Kenna '61, 142 Benedict Dr., Pitts­field, Mass. 01201 
Bosfon—Richard W. Murphy '58. 540 Granite St., Braintree, Mass. 02184 
Pioneer Valley — William A. Hurley, '28, 33 Ehn St., Springfield, Mass. 01103 
AnCHIGAN 
Battle Creek—Raymond R. Allen, 40, 1009 Security National Bank BIdg., Battle Creek, Mich. 
Berrien County — Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, Niles. Mich. 
Blue Water District — William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. 
Dearborn — Robert W. Missel '58, 740 N. Mclbom, Dcaibom, Mich. 48128 
Detroit — Louis C. Bosco Jr. '58, 29733 Spring Hill Dr., Southfield, Midi. 48075 
Flint—Emery A. Sherwood, '38, 7416 Gillette Rd., Lot 69, Flushing, -Mich., 48433 
Gosebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn, *40, Wright & Zinn, Michaels BIdg. Ironwood, Mich. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan 
Mr. John TuUy '61, 2504 Albert Dr., S.E., Grand Rapids, Mich. 49506 
/action—James A. LcFere '61, 3002 
W. Morrcll, Jackson, Mich. Kalamazoo—^Thomas O. McKinley, 1554 Academy, Kalamazoo, Afich. 
Lansing—Richard E. Alfcs '55, 7516 Sunset Dr., R.R. 2, Lansing, Mich. 48917 
Monroe—HuA J. Laughna, '40, 1587 Riverview, Monroe, Alich. 
Muskegon — Stanley R. Tyler, Jr., '58, 2211 Reneer St., Muskegon, Mich. 
Saginaw Valley—Eugene J. Gase Jr. '56, 404 W. Genesee Ave., Saginaw, inch. 48602 
Top of Michigan — Edward L. Molo­ney, '17, 416 East State St., Che­boygan, Mich. 
MINNESOTA 
Twin Cities—.Wbcrt D. Eilcrs, '53, 2019 Kenwood PaHtway, Alinnc­apolis, ^linn. 55405 
MISSISSIPPI 
p. Nicholas "Nick" Harkins '63, 4359 Brook Dr., Jackson, Miss. 39206 
MISSOURI 
Kansas City—William F. Ungashick, '43, 394 Central St., Kansas City, Alo. 
St. Louis—Joseph F. Dwyer Jr. '58, 7053 Westmoreland, St. Louis, Mo. 63130 
MONTANA 
Robert T. O'Leary, '54, 2920 Floral Blvd., Butte, Mont. 
Billings — Bruce J. Madntyrc '59, Maclntyre Motor Co., P.O. Box 1047, Billings, Montana 59103 
NEBRASKA 
Omaha and Council Bluffs—^Warren A. Youngstrom '55, 1260 S. 16th St., Omalia, Neb. 68108 
NEW JERSEY 
Central — Howard J. Gillespie *34, 282 Garrett Rd., Mountainside, N.J. 07092 
New Jersey Shore—Edwin L. Voll Jr. '48, 38 Kim Court, Toms River, N.J. 08753 
New Jersey — Angcio B. Amato '42, 8 Kenilworth Drive, CrcsskiU N.J. 07626 
South Jersey — James B. Carson, *56, 624 Clinton Ave., Haddonfield, N.J. 
NEW MEXICO 
Paul R. Farmer, Jr. '53, 2507 Carol, N.E., Albuquerque, N.M. 87112. 
NEW YORK 
Albany — Frank E. O'Brien. '58, 99 Brookline Ave., Albany, N.Y. 
Bu#a(o—Robert M. Bennett '62, 229 Wardman Rd., Kenmore, N.Y. 14217 
Ccnlral — Kevin J. Ryan, '61, 146 Northwood Way, Camillus, N.Y. 13031 
Golden Circle—James F. McVay, '42, 49 Parkway Lane, Bradford, Pa. 
Mid-Hudson Valley — Dr. Henry W. Fletcher '50, 53 Adriance Ave., Poughkecpsie, N.Y. 12601 
Mohawk Valley—John F. Woeppel '53, 29 S. Richfield St., Mohawk, N.Y. 13407 
New York City—^John I. McNamara '31. 66 Court St., Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 
Rochester—E. Royal Hanna '52, 75 Conmar Dr., Rochester, N<Y. 14609 
Schenectady—Robert A. Lupe '55, 875 Westhohn Rd., Schenectady, N.Y. 12309 
Syracuse—See "Central New YoA." 
Southern Tier — Frank F. O'Brien, '34, 201 FedeiatidB BIdg., Ebnira, N.Y. 
Triple Cities — Frank M. Linehan, '45, 2 Elizabeth St, MR 97, Bing­hamlon, N.Y. 
NORTH CAROLINA 
Donald J. Kclsey, '48, 1115 West-ridge Rd., Greensboro, N.C. 
NORTH DAKOTA 
William Daner, '53, 1106 S. Highland Acres, Bismarck, NJ>. 
OHIO 

.^iroji — James C. Censky '56. 385 Afton Ave., Akron, Ohio 44313 
Canton—^Thomas J. Seaman '53, 424 Fulton Dr., N.W., Canton, Ohio 44703 
Cincinnafi—Wm. E. Burke '54, 3213 Crischy Lane, Cincinnati, Ohio 45208 
Cleveland—^Richard A. Van Auken '57, 3615 Sutherland, Shaker Heights, Ohio 44120 
Co/umfciu—Frank J. Bettendorf '59, 2147 Elgin Rd., Columbus, Ohio 43221 
Dayton — Louis J. Kavanaugb '58, 151 Sheringliam Ct., Apt. N, Ket­tering, Ohio 45429 
Hamilton—Jaame A. Ryan, '41, 353 South D St.. Hamilton. Ohio. J/aiiJ^rf —Herbert J. Frye. '40, 740 
N. Henry St., Crestline. Ohio 
Northwestern — Walter R. Bernard, '30, 433 Johnson Ave., Cclina, Ohio 45822 
OAio F<i«o—WiUiam J. Buch '59, 42 Lynwood Ave., Wheeling, W. Va. 26003 
Sandusky — Richard C. Hohler, '47, 2603 £ast\vood Dr., Sandusky. Ohio. TiBin — Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 
Sycamore St., Tiffin. Ohio. ToWo—Thomas J. Welly '55, 2043 Mt. Vernon. Toledo. Ohio 43607 
Youngstown—Emmet J. Tyireli '60, 167 E. Judson Ave., Youngstown, Ohio 44507 
OKLAHOMA 

Oklahoma City — Daniel J, Keleher, '58. 4201 N.W. 61, Oklahoma City, Okki. 
TU/M—Bernard J. Sullivan, '39, 717 Kennedy Bldg., Tulsa, Okla. 74103 
OREGON 

Dr. Edward M. Scott, '46. 3632 N.E. Da\-is, Portland. Ore. 97232 
PENNSYLVANIA 
Central Pennsylvania—^Dr. George W. Katter, '41, U.S. Bank BIdg. Johnstown, Pa. 
Erie — Richard T. McCormick, '55, 4425 Cherry St., Eric, Pa. Harriiturg—Joseph Ellam '58, 4106 Hillsdale Rd., Harrisbuig, Pa. 17112. 
Lehigh Valley — David E. Nohn, '55, 835 Edward Ave., Allentown, Pa. 18104 
hionongahela Valley—^Louis W. Apone, '41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, Pa. 
Philadelphia—Patrick W. Kittredge, '58, 1500 Seven Penn Center Plaza, Philadelphia, Pa. 19103 
Pittsburgh — J. Peter Friday. '.50, 821 Ella Dr., Pillsburgh, Pa. 152)6 
Scranton — Richard J. Jordan '51, 1102 Woodlawn Ave., Scranton, Pa. 18509 
Wilkes-Barre—Viaymoni J. Sobota '49, 760 -Miners Bank Bldg., Wilkcs-Barre, Pa. 18701 
Williamsport — Joseph F. Orso, Jr., '55 P.O. Box 27, Williamsport, Pa. 17701 
RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS 
Thomas J. McHale '59, 45 Tangle-wood Dr., Cumberland, R.I. 028M 
SOUTH CAROLINA 
Julian D. Michel '43, 26 Broad St, Cliarleston, S.C. 29401 
TENNESSEE 

C/ia(/anoogii—Robert J, Shockey '61, 509 Cherry St , Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402 
Memphis — Joseph S. Signaigo '48, 1687 Bryn Mawx Circle, German­town, Tenn. 38038 
Nashville — William J. Faimon. '54, 6705 Rodney Ct , Nashville, Teim. 37205 
TEXAS 
Dallas — D. Eugene Kcrvin Jr. '53, 3058 Townsend Dr., Dallas, Te-t. 75229 
m Paso—Gus P. Momsen Jr. '49, 4427 Oxford, El Paso, Tex. 79903 
Houston — Christie S. Flanagan '60, 1915 Briarmead, Houston, Tex. 77027 
San Antonio—Lawrence L. Keough '61, 232 Scfotd, San Antonio, Tax. 78209 
UTAH 
William C. Allen '57, 652 Aloha Rd., Salt Lake City, Utah 84103. 
VIRGINIA 
A. Jerome Ov.ings '60, 19 Westham Parkway, Richmond, Va. 23229 
Charles A. LaFratta, '47, 1301 Alsatia Dr., Richmond, Va. 
WASHINGTON 
Spokane—Richard J. St. John '56, East 2003 37th Ave. 
ItVjfcm—Thomas P. May, '55. 4237 a5th Ave., S.E., Mercer Island, Wash. 98010 
WEST VIRGINIA 
Ci-ril M. Reich, '39, 903 S. Drew St., S t Albans, W.Va. Central — John D. Julian, '40, P.O. Box 2063, Clarksburg, W.Va. 
WISCONSIN 
Fox River KoHcj'—Russell E. Skall '50, Skall's Colonial Wonder Bar, Inc., South Memorial Dr., .Apple­ton, Wis. 54911. 
Green Baj—Harry B. Conlon '57, 308 Tower View Dr., Green Bay, Wis. 54301 
La Crojje—Robert J. Young '59, 311 First St., South, LaCrcsccnt, Minn. 55947 
.Jferri//—Augustus H. Stangc. '27, 102 
S. Prospect St , Merrill, Wise. Milwaukee — Joseph A. Mesec '54, 5311 AUcnwood Lane, Hales Corners, Wis. 53130 
Northwest Wisconsin — Ben M. Siri­anni, Jr., '60, 2719 Keith St , Eau Claire, Wise. 54701 
South Central — Thomas M. Hinkcs, '51, 5414 Doisctt Dr., Madison, Wis. 53711 
WYOMING 
Patrick H. Meenan, '49, Midwest BIdg., P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. 
FOREIGN CLUBS 
Brazil — Thomas E. Carroll '58, U.S. Consulate, Sao Paulo, Rua Padre Jaao ifanuel 20, A.P.O. 676, New-York, N.Y. 09676 
Canada — Paul H. LaFramboise, *34, S t Hilairc Rouville Co., 212 Blvd. Richelieu, Quebec, Canada. 
CAiVi—Michael E. Curtin '61, In­dustrias "COIA" S.A.. Casilla 6-D, Vina Del Mar, Chile, South America. 
Colombia—^J. Ramon de la Torre '57,' Calle 78, No. 8-02, Bogota, Co­lombia, South America. 
Ecuador—^Temistocles Teran '49, Apartado 179, Quito, Ecuador. 
£«s/anif—Donald C. Lueck '50, 93 Eaton Terrace, London SWI, En­gland. 
Manila — Lawrence J. Gotuaco, *54, 
P.O. Box 1152, Manila. Philippines. 
Mexico City—Richard C. Leon '44, Monte Kamcrum 225, Afexico 10, 
D.F. Mexico. Nicaragua—Noel Pallals '49, Apar­tado 2119, Managua, Nicaragua. 
Northern European—Frank T. Mc­Guire '35. Manai;ing Director. John Deere, S.A., Postfach 949, 69 Heidelberg, Germany. 
Pakistan—Rev. Frank J. Burton CSC '33, P.O. Box 5. Notre Dame Col­lege, Dacca-2-, East Pakistan. 
Panama — Lorenzo Romagosa, '45, 
P.O. Box 830-F, Panama, Panama. Peru—Enrique Lulli, '45, Cuzco 440, Lima, Peru. Puerto Rico—^Julio Vizcarrondo, Jr., '56, P.O. Box 13457, Santurcc, Puerto Rico 00938 Rome — Vincent G. McAIoon, '34, (Secretary), Palazzo Brancacdo, Largo Brancaccio, 82, Rome, Italy. San Salvador — Robert Poma '65, 71 Avcnida Sur, Colonia Escalon, San Salvador, £1 Salvador r«ijo—Rev. Peter T. Moriwaki, S.J., '65. Sophia University 7, Kiocho, Chiyodak, Tokyo, Japan. Venezuela—^Mervyn J. Gorman Jr. 
*39, Apartado 1651, Caracas, Ven­ezuela. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1968 FEBRUARY 

BOOKS 
None Too Realistic 
CATHOLIC EDUCATION IN A CHANGING WORLD by George N. Shusler 'IS, AM'20, Holt, Rinehort and Winston, 241 pp., $5.95. 
If one were to pick any single 
person to present a lucid and compact 
overview of the huge and diverse 
enterprise that is Catholic education, 
he would want to think very hard 
before choosing anyone but George 
Shuster: scholar, educational states­
man and citizen of the world. The 
present volume, a companion to the 
well-known "Notre Dame Study" of 
Catholic education, is no disappoint­
ment. 
A great many matters are ad­dressed; among them: the age-old tension—which can of course be cre­ative—between faith and scholarship; the question of how "effective" re­ligious education can be, and whether it is reasonable to expect all students, especially in the colleges, to remain the kind of Catholics they were in high school; the contributions of lay and religious educators; the knotty problems surrounding the financing of Catholic schools; and some of the new directions of Catholic education in our post-Council climate of change. 
Let me retell to ALUMNUS readers some of Dr. Shuster's thoughts in just one of these areas. Some ND men ol the past have expressed considerable uneasiness at what they feel is a "fall­ing away from the faith" of contem­porary students. Here is the wisdom of over 50 years' close association with Catholic colleges: 
"Not all the students who are ma­triculated will automatically become or remain exemplary Catholics, or 
f UMf^"^ 
GEORGE SHUSTER His business for 50 years. 

indeed retain the faith of their child­hood. To contend that such a result could be, or indeed would have to be, achieved is deplorably restrictive. The Church itself has not accomplished anything of the kind .. . It is only 
•when one erroneously conceives of the university as an instrument of Chris­tian formation that one can be misled into entertaining so unrealistic a view. In this area the university should act even as the Church itself does . . . entertain (ing) affection for all who wander in the shadow of doubt or negation." 
The reader can in addition find about the strongest case against the Catholic university he'll ever want to read; and, just when he's convinced, he will come across one of the most persuasive arguments for the Catholic university he \vill see for some time. This is a measure of the author's scope and brilliance. If George Shuster seems to some younger schol­ars basically conservative, even they would admit he is so in the best sense of the term: he would preserve and revivify the best of our heritage. 
How does he see the future? His own words speak best for him: "It is impossible to go back to where Archbishop Ireland was and create a place in the public school system specifically for Catholics. Or for Protestants and Jews. It is equally impossible to abolish the Catholic school system. Despite the criticism directed at it by a new group of Catholics, it is too deeply rooted in the respect and affection of the vast majority of the Catholic people, and in the dedication of religious com­munities. 
"Third, it will be impossible to put all Catholic children into Catholic schools, particularly at the critical level of liigher education. This pre­sents to Catholic leadership in this country a totally new configuration of problems. We are living in a time which nobody could have foreseen, but it is here and one must take a can­did look at it." — Dr. Robert Hossenger '59 
Tragedy in a Punciiline 
JOLLY ROGERSON by Ralph Mclnerny, Double­day, 261 pp., $4.95. 
What manner of hero is this: lecher, philosopher, drunk or clown — accessory before and after the fact, failure-at-all-trades? Philosophy Prof. Ralph Mclnerny has created a quixot­ic figure in his first published novel. 
Like its hero, the novel is difficult to categorize. Set in the academic world, it veers toward the picaresque; the author shifts from a sober, intro-
RALPH MclNERNY When philosopher turns novelist. 
spective tone to fashion an enonnous practical joke — with a tra^c punch­line. 
The central figure, Matthew Roger-son, is reminiscent of many a non-hero, from Moses Herzog to Lucky Jim, lacking the humanity of the one and the absurdity of the other. He is a professes' of philosophy at an un­named midwestem university. 
He scribbles prose about the anxieties of middle age to store away for posterity and broods about his academic failure; he doubts; he weeps self-pitying tears. Seduced into an im­pendingly adulterous embrace, he is caught and slinks off in shame and embarrassment. 
But only a few chapters later, Rogerson is buoyant, painting self-incriminating obscenities on the side­walk in front of the campus arts building. He leaps from one outrage to the next, from bogus scholarship to forgery of his own death warrant propelling himself with hilarious in­evitability to academic success and student adulation. 
But the academic satire is not fully developed. The scene shifts from campus to raihroad depot (unmistak­ably South Bend's) to the grim emer­gency ward of the hospital, matching Rogerson's changing moods and drives. 
In genera], the novel's effect is manic-depressive. Just when the reader abandons all caution and rises to the game, Rogeison becomes a tragic figure again, betrayed and awarded undeserved honor for virtue by default 
But Mclnemey's transitions from improbable force to terror and tragedy are not always justified. Rogerson's sober side often seems incongruous; the author deflects his own serious pur­pose, dissolving it in fun and pun. 
Chi the other hand, the novel is at its best when Jolly Rogerson dons clown disguise with criminal intent and a self-mocking grimace. 
— Eileen Bender 

amplified by four years of residence in Bologna, interviews with Party ABOUT THE AUTHORS members and public opinion sam­
George Shuster' 15 is director of the Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society and assistant to the president. A former presi­dent of Hunter College, he is the author of numerous books and articles in the fields of education, religion, English literature and modem German history. Ralph Mclnemy, associate professor of philosophy, moonlights as a fiction writer. This, his first novel, grew out of a short story he \vrote for a magazine. 
Of People and Their Theories 
THE IDEA OF JUSTICE by Olio A. Bird, Frederick A. Praeger, 192 pp., $5.95. 
Former members of the general program of liberal studies and of the collegiate seminar will no doubt be delighted to have this book. In it they will recapture the tones and methods of an erudite and enthusi­astic teacher who was for many years director of both. The book is one of a series of four, researched indepen­dently imder the auspices of Mortimer 
J. Adler's Institute for Philosophical Research in Chicago. The companion ideas are those of love, happiness and progress. 
Dr. Bird's book aims at being a dialectical smvey of the vast and often disputatious literature surrounding the concept of justice with a view to dis­covering what exactly are the main standpoints, over what matters they differ and where they agree. Three major theories are isolated: the Posi­tive Law, Social Good and Natural Right theories. These are contrasted with respect to six fundamental issues. 
The discussion is painstakingly clear and, while the method precludes the outright setding of any major dis­putes, the reader can readily find out a good deal about who said what, and why, and his relation to others in the field. _Re„. /vo Thomos OP 
Will Success Be Its Downfall? 
COEXISTENCE: COMMUNISM AND ITS PRAaiCE IN BOLOGNA, 1945-1965 by Robert E. Evans, UND Press, 224 pp., $7.95. 
Why do free people vote for Com­munists? We Americans, knowing Communism primarily as Soviet power and international conspiracy, find it difficult to answer such a ques­tion. But Prof. Robert Evans of the department of government and inter­national studies brings some very helpful and much-needed insight to Otto Bird, a professor in the gen­eral program, was its first director. He came to ND in 1950 after being associate editor of the Syntopican volumes in the Great Books of the Western World. Now on leave, he is a senior staff member of the Institute for Philosophical Re­search and executive editor of 
Great Ideas Today. 
Robert H. Evans, currently on leave of absence, is assistant professor of government and international studies. Research for his book was 
bear by taking a close look at Com­
munists in a free Western country 
where they live and work, where the 
Party takes on the flesh of citizens 
and politicians. 
Since 1945 the Communist Party has administered the city of Bologna, a city which has "a long-established tradition of liberty, a people of in­dependent mind, (and) a balanced economy." What is the secret of this parado.vical Communist success? Professor Evans' penetrating study of Bologna and the Bolognese demon­strates the expected effect of local tendencies toward political extremism and anti-clericalism. But, most inter­estingly, it also reveals that one of the chief elements in Commimist success has been the response of the Party itself to local needs, to economic realities and (to a degree) even to the requirements of democratic pol­itics. 
While remaining radical in theory and undemocratic in its own organi­zation, the Communist Party has taken pains to identify itself not only with the workers but also with the local capitalists. In its own interests (including business profits) it has worked not for class struggle between the two but for cooperation. 
Like most success stories, therefore, this one also has more than one side. Professor Evans shows that the result of this interaction has not been all to the advantage of the Communists. On the contrary, it may ultimately be their undoing. He thus leaves his readers with a very intriguing and significant question as to the real pos­sibilities of coexistence. While his work may concern only one city, it contains many implications for the democratic countries in general. It is a work not only well done but emi­nently well worth the reading. 
^George Brintfey 
plings. Willis D. Nutting, a former Rhodes scholar, joined the faculty in 1936 and is now associate professor, emeritus, in the general program of liberal studies. He is the author of three other books. Gordon J. DiRenzo '56 is an associ­ate professor of sociology at the Soudi Bend campus of lU. He gathered data for Personality, Power and Politics in personal interviews with members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Italian Parliament His book has also been published in Italy. 
A Politico's Craft 
PERSONALITY, POWER AND POLITICS by Gordon J. DiRenzo '56, AM"57, PhD'63, University of Notre Dame Press, 264 pp., $7.95. 
The subtitle, "A Social Psycholog­ical Analysis of the Italian Deputy and His Parliamentary System," is more descriptive of the contents of this interesting book than the title. Data gathered from personal inter­views with members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Italian Parliament are the basic research material of this significant study. 
The introductory chapters provide a helpful background discussion of the relevant sociopolitical aspects of Italy and its national character. Dr. Gordon J. DiRenzo finds the profes­sional politician is more dogmatic and closed-minded than the nonpolitician. However, the politicians of the polit­ical left tend to be more open-minded than those of the political right. The author's findings indicate a positive correlation between religious practice and the degree of dogmatism and a parallel between religious affiliation, XKtlitical ideology and dogmatism. 
Dr. DiRenzo concludes that the method used to recruit candidates influences the type of personality structiu^ that is attracted into a polit­ical system. Where free self-recruit­ment operates, the dogmatic and power-oriented authoritarian person­ality is attracted to the political party. 
The extensive footnotes and the frequent use of jargon and statistics may tend to restrict thb scholarly study to an academic audience. The general reader, however, will find considerable interesting and helpful information which will enable him to better understand some current ques­tions in political life. 
— louis F. Buckley '28 

Once the Cycle Is Completed 
THE FREE CITY by Willis Nutting, Templegale, 144 pp., $4.95. 
"Doctor of Philosophy" Nutting has 
written a tempered but radical in­
dictment of the American college. 
I stress "Doctor of philosophy" be­
cause, as Willis Nutting points out, 
the PhD "in its original meaning is 
holy .. . [a] teacher of the love of 
wisdom." 
It is exactly the loss of dignity of the teacher, the lack of love and the sparseness of wisdom in the modem university that prompts Dr. Nutting to propose his Free City of the mind, a true university, where some few hundred students and several real doctors of philosophy (with or with­out the semi-legal parchment) can gather together—^free from the tradi­tional courses, grading systems and all administrative impedimenta; free also from narrow specialists and their overweening concern with publica­tions and grants; free from the ex­penses (of money and spirit) that go with bigness. 
There the students and the teachers \vill be free to read and study and talk and look and listen and not be afraid of committing the academic mortal sin of invading someone else's field—for wisdom, of thought and action, will be their only field. 
In a beautiful passage that every young teacher should take to heart— and every old teacher who has a heart left—Dr. Nutting warns of the su­preme sacrifice the teacher must be prepared to make, but a sacrifice that will be repaid a hundredfold if he would teach, and learn, in such a school: 
"The thing that is most difficult to sacrifice in our present situation is the scholarly career, for it is this career that would win for the teacher his recognition and advancement . . . Yet the doctor of philosophy, if he really is one, must put down the book, or turn away from the type^vriter, when even the least interesting stu­dent knocks at his door." 
A dream: Perhaps. But better the dream of a wise and gentle man than the nightmare of a computerized university. 
— Dr. (/lopeful/y) Edward J. Cronin '38 

And Briefly Noted: 
ORGANIC POLYMERS, co-aufhored by Edward F. Gurnee PhD '54, Prentice-Hall Inc. 
Drs. Turner Alfrey Jr and Edward 
F. Gurnee of the Dow Chemical Co. are authors of this new textbook. The volume was written primarily for undergraduate engineering students with certain prerequisites and for beginning graduate students. It is a part of the Prentice-Hall series in materials science. 
Dr. Gurnee, a Dow associate scien­tist, is on the staff of the Physical Research Laboratory in Midland, 
AND THE REVIEWERS 
Robert Hassenger '59 is assistant professor of sociology and educa­tion at ND and the editor of The Shape of Catholic Higher Educa­tion published by the U. of Chi­cago Press last year. 
Eileen Bender is the wife of Dr. Harvey A. Bender, associate profes­sor of biology at ND. A graduate of Northwestem's Medill School of Journalism, she is an associate lecturer in English at the l U cam­pus in South Bend. She is also a book reviewer for the South Bend Tribune which first published her evaluation of Jolly Rogerson. 
Edward Cronin '38 is an associate professor teaching literature in the general program of liberal studies. He joined the faculty in 1949 after teaching at the U. of Minnesota. 
George A. Brinkiey, associate pro­fessor of government and intema­tional studies, is a specialist in Soviet affairs. He is the author of a study of the Russian Civil War and has done research at the U. of Moscow. 
Mich. He is the author of 13 papers on the mechanical and optical proper­ties of polymers. 
VASCONCELOS OF MEXICO, PHILOSOPHER AND PROPHET by John H. Hoddox '55. MA '56, PhD '59, U. of Texas Press, AusKn. 
Jose Vasconcelos—lawyer, politi­
cian, writer, educator, philosopher, 
prophet and mystic—^was one of the 
most influential and controveraal 
figures in the intellectual life of 20th­
century Mexico. This book touches 
on the entire range of his thought 
Dr. Haddox, head of the depart­ment of philosophy at the University of Texas at £1 Paso, served as con­sultant to the Programa de Educacion Interamericana at Texas A & M dur­ing the summer of 1967. He has also had articles on the Mexican philoso­phers Antonio Caso and Jose Vas­concelos published in recent issues of Politico, a Venezuelan journal. 
THE FAMILY IN CHANGING CIVILIZATIONS by Panos D. Bardis '53, Associated Educational Ser­vices Corp., Simon and Schuster, 288 pp., $6.25. 
A book that offers the reader orig­inal intellectual effort, carefully set forth and conceptually well inte­grated. The Family in Chan^ng Civilizations is comprised of the au­thor's widely published articles. 
The book is divided into six parts: Introduction, The Family and Social Change, Ancient Family Systems, Modem Family Systems, Statistical Family Studies and Conclusion. 
Rev. Ivo Thomas OP is a visiting professor in the general program of liberal studies. A graduate of Oxford U., he is the author of numerous papers on modem logic The current issue of The Natural Law Forum carries his longer and more philosophically critical review of The Idea of Justice. 
Louis F. Buckley '28 is professor of industrial relations at Loyola U. in Chicago and is the author of two studies of the lives and opinions of his classmates. He is a former Class president and now, as Class secretary, he writes the Class col­umn for the ALUMNUS. 
BRINKLEY BUCKLEY BENDER CRONIN THOMAS HASSENGEK 
/ Mr. Franeis P. Clark 
:TORS 

Head, Microfilming & Photo. Lab. 
Memorial Library Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
AMBROSE F. DUDLEY JR. '43 PRESIDENT JOSEPH H. CAREY '32 VICE-PRESIDENT THOMAS W. CARROLL '51 VICE-PRESIDENT CHARLES J. PATTERSON 'A7 VICE-PRESIDENT JAMES D. COONEY 'S9 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 
DIRECTORS TO 1968 
JOSEPH H. CAREY "32 NOMINATIONS RELIGION AND CITIZENSHIP 19965 BRIARCLIFF DETROIT, MICH. 48221 
THOMAS W. CARROLL '51 NOMINATIONS PLACEMENT 214 W. 20lh HUTCHINSON, KAN. 67501 
AMBROSE F. DUDLEY JR. '43 EXECUTIVE SHERATON-PEABODY HOTEL 149 UNION AVE. MEMPHIS, TENN. 38103 
CHARLES J. PATTERSON '47 ACADEMIC AFFAIRS CONTINUING EDUCATION 34 LITTLE TREE LANE FRAMINGHAM, MASS. 01701 
DIRECTORS TO 1969 
WILLIAM D. KAVANAUGH '27 BUDGET 3445 ORDWAY ST., N.W. WASHINGTON, D.C. 20016 
WILLIAM F. KERWIN JR. "40 
ADMISSIONS 1108 EMILIE ST. GREEN BAY, WIS. 5A2Q\ 

RICHARD A. ROSENTHAL '54 PUBLIC RELATIONS AND 
DEVELOPMENT STUDENT AFFAIRS P.O. BOX 200 SOUTH BEND, IND. 46624 
LEO V. TURGEON '42 ATHLETIC SUITE 107 CRENSHAW MEDICAL CENTER 3731 STOCKER ST. LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90008 
DIRECTORS TO 1970 
EDWARD G. CANTWELL '24 700 BINNS BLVD. COLUMBUS, OHIO 43204 
EDWARD B. FITZPATRICK '54 5 THE MAPLES 
MAGAZINE STAFF 
JAMES D. COONEY '59 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY JOHN P. THURIN 'S9 
EDITOR JUNE SHASSERE DICK RILEY '68 
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
M. BRUCE HARLAN '49 
CHIEF PHOTOGRAPHER RICHARD STEVENS '51 PETER McGRATH "70 RICHARD HUNT '69 DON DEMPSEY '71 
PHOTOGRAPHERS 

\ 
% 
•A 
ROSLYN ESTATES, N.Y. 11576 NOTRE DAME 
JOHN J. REIDY '27 11850 EDGEWATER DR. LAKEWOOD, OHIO 44107 
MMmm 

LEONARD H. SKOGLUND '38 
a
426 DOVER AVE. 

LAGRANGE PARK, ILL. 60525 



