The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
J6esiSsiSsggaJ^saBa:^agjaJi!aJiisttesBe&vsg^ 

The Notre Dame Club o/f/ie City of New York 
yff4JauSgJees^^s;sa^eag^g»»esges>^aJieg^^ s-aBatSctSagaagiig 
I Phil J. Doherty 
=1
I
I
I 

=1Ambrose O'Connell 
•I 
i 
=1 

Peter P. McElligott 
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW 320 West 2:3rd Street 

I Manhattan Refrigerating Co. 
I Union Terminal Cold Storage Company 
! 

Kings County Refrigerating Company 
i Offices: 
525 West Street, N. Y. C. 



CLUB HEADQUARTERS 
22 East 38th Street 
New York City 



McALPIN HOTEL 
Broadway and Thirty-Fourth Street 

New York City 

William E. Cotter I 
William A. Daunt 
A New York Alumnus 
John T. Balfe 
PERSONAL INSURANCE 

Life Insurance Tnists Corporation In^irance Inhentance Taxes UnderwHtten 
Graybar Building 
NEW YORK CITY 
ailSi''Si»S>i'Sat^igrg;»aj!3rsj&aja<g^^ 
»t»'»Si»tianBingantgsTSat»i!»tii»S»ta8'e6»«»Bii»S^ 
^ SPEAKERS 


Ckotcc of LcotlUiftStiatlotijy 
Rocllo^ I|uiucUbt« 




^ALLERTON HOUSE! 
TOINORXHMKHIOANAVENUB­CHICAQO*^ CLUB UE^IDSWCB^ 
FOR MHV^ND WQMEN^KKXyWCmk prFiaALCHlCAOP HFAPQUAItreU^'y for102 CotHe^es-attA. Unlvewttier anciTO N<Uiotiat ^ororttJay •'' 
JT€P AT THE 




ALLECT€N 
N€TCE DAME HEADCUACTECX IN CtilCASC 
ai^ai^<^at»auj»igsgja«»aBa5uiatg»ffiat»&tg6i«&i«au^ 
Q.. Q.. "S
"13 
1930 FOOTBALL 


IN THIS ISSUE 
All-Amcrican, 1929 Frontispiece Alumni Board Decisions 101 March of the Banqueteers 102 Boy Guidance Survey, by Eay Hoyer 106 War Mothers Honor Hering, '98 ; 108 Editorial 110 
N. D. Books Attract 111 University Begins 8400,000 Law Building 112 Adult Education : 114 Athletics, by John Kiener, '32: 118 The Alumni 120 
The maf^zine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni 
Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. The 
subscription price is 52.00 a year: the price of single copies is 25 cents. The 
annual alumni dues of 55.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. 
Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923, at the post office" at Notre 
Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1897. All correspondence should 
be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. MEMBESI OP THE AJIERICAN ALUMNI COUNXIL MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUJINI FEDERATION 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES B . ARJISTBONG, '25, Editor HAKLEY MCDEVITT, '29, Advertising Mgr. 

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
MARK M . FOOTE, '73 Honorary President JOHN W . EGGEJIAN, '00 President JAMES E . DEERY, '10 Vice-President JAJIES E . ARJISTRONG, '25 Secretary WALTER DUNCAN, '12 Treasurer ALFRED C. RYAN, '20 Director GEORGE M . MAYPOLE, '03 Director 
M 
. HARRY MILLER, '10 Director 

T.
 PAUL MCGANNON, '07 Director DON M. HAMILTON, '12 (ex officio) Director 



iiiiiii lllllllillllllllilllllllltllllllllll Illllltllll IIIIMIIII IIIMI •Illllllllfil 
SCHEDULE 
i Oct. 4 — Southern Methodist 
i U. at Notre Dame. 
I Oct. 11 — Navy at Notre 
I Dam e (stadium dedication 
I game.) 
i Oct. 18 —Carnegie Tech at 
I Notre Dame. 
I Oct. 25—Pittsburgh at Pitts-
i burgh. 
I Nov. • 1 — Indiana at Notre 
I Dame. 
I Nov. 8—Pennsylvania at Phil­
1 adelphia. 
I Nov. 15 — Drake at Notre 
I Dame. 
I Nov. 22 — Northwestern at 
I Evanston, III. 
I Nov. 29—Army at New York. 
I Dec. 6 — Southern California 
§ at Los Angeles. 
QM 
Comment 
An editorial this month comments on leaders of organizations who do not come into the immediate lime­light. Fully as deserving, and equally ignored, are those social martyrs, the sub-chairmen and members of com­mittees. The ALUMNUS regrets more than any other medium its in­ability to give full credit to such men as Mike Donahue in the St. Joseph Valley Club and his zealous running mate, J. H. B. McCarthy, always on deck with their sleeves rolled up but always smiling; to Lou Wagner, Jack Adams and others who were behind the scenes at New York; to John Stephan, Nick Griffin, John Montague, Jim Foley and the rest of Ed Gould's committee in Chicago; and the same thing is going on in every active or­ganization through the country. The Unknown Committeeman monument fund is now open. 
Now that the season is all over, with Notre Dame at the top of the football heap, and you found that at every game you not only had neigh­bors in those avrful seats you got, but that there were actually people in the park with worse seats, don't you feel a little better? Shake off any of that bad taste you had (and some­times showed) during the season and round out your Notre Dame fandom with a little support of the hundred and one things that you will have a chance to support. It is, after all, those things that make Notre Dame teams so successful. 




ALL -AMERICAN, 1929 
New York Swi 
Schoonover, Arkansas, end. Nagurski, Minnesota, tackle. Schwai-z, California, guard. Ticknor, Har\-ard, center. CANNON, Notre Dame, guard. Sleight, Purdue, tackle. Donchess, Pittsburgh, end. CARIDEO, Notre Dame, quarter. Marsters, Dartmouth, half. Glassgow, Iowa, half. Parkinson, Pittsburgh, full. 
"K. 1 *""­
7* 
^«»'lMnf^;«-'^| 
^^^^K^^^i 
^^WH| h. m
^
f 
^ m^m

P^§« 
i
lit"-' 
/•' ^^, 
5-,/..» ^ ^v# 
K^Wati(3^3 
3^ 
JACK CANNON .4//-AHienVa)i Guard 
Lawrence Perry 
Donchess, Pittsburgh, end. Nagurski, Minnesota, tackle. CANNON, Notre Dame, guard. Ticknor, Harvard, center. Schwarz, California, guard. Sleight,' Purdue, tackle. Schoonover, Arkansas, end. CARIDEO, Notre Dame, quarter. Banker, Tulane, half. Glassgow, Iowa, half. Parkinson, Pittsburgh, full. 
NOTE—Space does not permit 
United Press 
Tapaan, Southern California, end. Hammon, South. Methodist, tackle. Montgomery, Pittsburgh, guard. Ticknor, Harvard, center. CANNON, Notre Dame, guard. Nagurski, Minnesota, tackle. Donchess, Pittsburgh, end. CARIDEO, Notre Dame, quarter. McEver, Tennessee, half. Hufford, Washington, half. Welch, Purdue, full. 
Associated Press 
Donchess, Pittsburgh, end. Fesler, 0. S. U., end. Sleight, Purdue, tackle. Nagurski, Minnesota, tackle. Schwarz, California, guard. CANNON, Notre Dame, guard. Ticknor, Harvard, center. CARIDEO, Notre Dame, quarter. Uansa, Pittsburgh, half. Cagle, Army, half. Holm, Alabama, full. 
Walter Eckersall's All-Western 
Tanner, Minnesota, end. Nagurski, Minnesota, tackle. Anderson, Northwestern, guard. MOYNIHAN, Notre Dame, center. CANNON, Notre Dame, guard. 
Sleight, Purdue, tackle. Fesler, 0. S. U., end. CARIDEO, Notre Dame, quarter. Harmescn, Purdue, half. 
Glassgow, Iowa, half. Welch, Purdue, full. 
United Press (State) 
COLLINS, Notre Dame, end. Sleight, Purdue, tackle. CANNON, Notre Dame, guard. MOYNIHAN, Notre Dame, center. LAW, Notre Dame, guard. TWOMEY, Notre Dame, tackle. Royce, Butler, end. CARIDEO, Notre Dame, quarter. Harmescn, Purdue, half. BRILL, Notre Dame, half. Welch, Purdue, full. 
Rockne, Warner^ Jones and Alexander 
(Christy Walsh Syndicate) 
Donchess, Pittsburgh, end. Sleight, Purdue, tackle. CANNON, Notre Dame, guard. Ticknor, Harvard, center. Montgomei-y, Pittsburgh, guard. Ackei-man, St. Mary's, tackle. Tapaan, Southern California, end. CARIDEO, Notre Dame, quarter. Banker, Tulane, half. Cagle, Army, half. Welch, Purdue, full. 
FRANK C^YRIDEO 
AU-American Quarterback 

reprinting of the Notre Dame men on other than the first teams. 
This page went to press before several representative teams were announced. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Volume VII. DECEMBER, 1929 No. 4 
Alumni Board Makes Important Decisions 
Council of Club Delegates at Commencement.— Universal Notre Dame Night, April 21.—Endorse Important Project to be Launched Next Month.—Add Girl to Alumni Office Staff. 
T
HE Beard of Directors of the Alumni Association held a very significant meeting at the Stev­ens Hotel on the morning of Nov. 16. President John W. Eggeman, Vice-President James Deery, Treasurer Walter Duncan, Directors Hari-y Mil­ler and Paul McGannon, and Secre­taiy J. E. Armstrong were present. In the opinion of the Secretary, the authorization of a council of delegates from the Local Alumni Clubs, to meet in conjunction with the annual Com­mencement exei'cises, was the most important decision made by the Board. This council, details of which will be worked out at a later' date, in time for the council to meet for the first time in 1930, is fundamentally intended to bring together delegates officially designated by the various Clubs to discuss the problems now confronting the Clubs; to outline a program for the Clubs, and to take back to the Clubs direct and pertinent reports on University and affiliated activities as they could be presented in their best form before such a coun­cil. The council should be able to promote Club activities and the rela­tionships involved as no other single factor now existing is able. The Alumni Secretary has been instructed by the Board to draw up a plan for this council and this will be submitted to the Board and to the Clubs early in the New Year. 
A second significant decision was the fi.xing of Monday night, April 21, as the Seventh Annual Universal Notre Dame Night. The date was chosen to conform to the approximate dates that have made the preceding Nights so successful. Elaboi-ation on 
the purposes of the Night is unnec­essary. Everyone, student and alum­nus, knows that on Universal Notre Dame Night the hearts of Notre Dame beat with a oneness in the four corners of the earth. Every Club that claims a spark of life holds some definite celebration for its members and neighbors. Individual and small­er groups of alumni meet on that Night if on no other. Last year Notre Dame music flooded the air from the country's leading radio sta­tions. Many Notre Dame speeches were also broadcast to a world that was more aware than ever before of Notre Dame. This year the Associa­tion, still unable to do all that should be done from the central Office, ap­peals to the Clubs, to the alumni and to the friends of Notre Dame, to be­gin plans early for a greater Night. The Notre Dame football team has completed a season that brought the bright flame of Notre Dame spirit to the scattered coastlines of Amer­ica. It is now left to the alumni and friends of Notre Dame to show to the world that that flame is not a will-o'­the-wisp, but a constant flame, lighted by Father Sorin and his six Brothers on the cold shores of St. Mary's Lake in 1842, and tended with more than vestal faithfulness by their followers. Details of the Night will be developed as far as is possible in the Office and submitted to the Clubs and the alum­ni. But primarily, the Alumni Board urges the Loc^al Clftbs.to begin jilan^ ning now foi'thejr; iftlpl)ri\tio.n.; .,'Any central program that would be of in­terest to the'JCii^s.'wcurd l^'jifac­tically impossitife to "sponsor frbm'the standpoint .of; timk-vhich faVies'. d.^;', 
cidedly from coast to coast, and of money, which needs only to vary in one direction to nullify the Associa­tion's most eager wishes. The Office will attempt in every possible way to secure national recognition for the Night, but this must be backed in the observance by national participation of all Notre Dame men. 
A third significant feature of the Board meeting was the authorization of additional clerical assistance, one girl, in the Alumni Office. Those of you who have had your name spelled wrong on the mailing list; those of you who have not appeared on that list at all; those of you who have re­ceived belated acknowledgements of your dues; those of you who have had fine, friendly letters apparently ignored; those thousands of interested non-graduate Notre Dame men who receive nothing from Notre Dame or the -Association now—should be in­terested in this development. It paves the way for an improvement in the records, which are, after all, the foun­dation upon which the alumni orga­nization, in whole and in its Club and Class parts, rests. The present staff, the Secretary and one assistant, have been able to reach only the first steps in the various phases of the activities that involve the Office. 
A fourth action of the Board, en­dorsement of a plan presented by a special committee of the Association, will eventually be most significant of all, but the plan is not yet ready for presentation. It will be presented in the January ALUMNUS and alumni are urged to read that issue and its contents as they have never before read an ALUMNUS. 
Q.. MB 
c

ALUMNI *^LUBS 
Q.. 
'T/ie March of the Batiqueteers 
It has been the unusual pleasure of the Editor to attend three outstand­ing banquets since the last ALUM­NUS was issued. All were in con­nection with the football season. All reflected the Notre Dame spirit that makes the Notre Dame eleven always a fighting, -inctorious, representative Notre Dame team. Others have com­mented on the Notre Dame custom of holding our alumni banquets on Sat­urday nights, after the games, say­ing, "What if the team should lose?" It is hard for the world to grasp that Notre Dame men can, upon occasion, celebrate defeat, so long as the de­feated eleven played the Notre Dame game. This year there was no need for that spirit, however, and the occasions had all the surface en­thusiasm of victory to garnish the more substantial love of playing the game. 
The first event was the banquet given to Eockne and the team by the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, in the main dining room of the Stevens, fol­lowing the victory over Southern California on November 16. Edward Gould, '23, was chairman of the com­mittee that ari-anged the banquet. John Costello, '12, president of the Club, acted as toastmaster for a most delightful program. 
Rt. Rev. Bernard J. Shell, Bishop of Chicago, gave a short but most edifying comment on the esteem which his diocese has for Notre Dame and the men and organizations which it embraces. 
Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C. S. C, spoke in defense of the part that foot­ball plays in the life of the college, of the player and of the public, and answered in most convincing fashion the recent charges that have been made against football. 
Howard Jones, coach of the power­ful Southe:-n California team which had that afternoon played a valiant though losing game, paid tribute to the sportsmanshij) of Notre Dame and the power and play of the Notre Dame team, stressing the pleasure that Southern California takes in its relations with Notre Dame. 
Coach Jones and his team left Chi­cago late Saturday night and Toast­master Costello introduced Captain. 
John Law, who gave a short talk for the team, leaving early to bid the de­parting Trojans farewell at the sta­tion. 
The Notre Dame team was called upon the platfomi by Toastmaster Costello and given souvenirs by the Club. Assistant Coach Tom Lieb, who has been of inestimable value to Notre Dame this Fall in taking Rock's place both on the field and at the banquet table, gave a most im­pressive talk, bringing to many of the audience a new understanding of the relations and motives of the team and the University, Rockne and the coaching staff. Tom, who is himself an alumnus of the Eockne teams, both track and football, in both of which he starred, has all of the admiration for Eockne and for Notre Dame that goes with membership on the team, and has absorbed a gi-eat deal of the ability to coach and to talk that make Eock so sought after. 
John W. Eggeman, '00, Fort Wayne, Ind., president of the Alumni Association, gave an interesting rem­iniscent talk on football at Notre Dame long before streaming headlines gave weekly variety to Sunday break­fasts of the nation. Judge Eggeman was a member of the teams of '97, '98 and '99, and as manager, was in­strumental in encouraging wider pub­licity for the Notre Dame eleven, re­sulting even at that early date in in­creased interest, revenue and enroll­ment. 
Hon. James J. Walker, Mayor of the City of New York, and as ardent a follower and admirer of Notre Dame as the University could ask, was a guest of honor at the banquet and the final speaker. Mayor Walker thrilled and held his audience with a talk that went back of the football teams of Notre Dame into the spirit and tradition and achievements of Notre Dame in other fields that Notre Dame men like to think are reserved for jnen ivha4>a^-e;liyedpn the campus. Vith: Jwtt^epKeA's dki tBe campus and a' conla'ct with Notre Dame men: as c*o"rista'iU; as, i; Iji.; Jpter^st in the Uni­veifeity;' it.ts possibly-lo be expected that. Mfumr WalkcC'Should;display a 
• <;k)se*-knqwledege' of'.tfce;U)i3versity. 
But it must have been a genuine thrill for the Notre Dame men in the audi­ence, and it certainly was conducing and enlightening to the non-Notre Dame part of the audience, to hear this most typical New Yorker eulogize Notre Dame in terms that must have been born in the shadow of the Dome. 
Dancing followed the dinner. 
The second banquet that the Editor was privileged to attend was the ban­quet given for the team by the Notre Dame Club of the City of New York in the Hotel McAlpin on the night of November 30. Whereas in Chicago, the beautiful main dining room of the Stevens had been crowded to capacity, in New York the two large dining rooms on the 24th floor of the Mc­Alpin were crowded to the doors and a number of persons took tickets for a second table. In contrast to the more elaborate speaking program of the Chicago banquet, a shorter but very interesting speaking program was arranged and the larger part of the evening devoted to dancing in both dining rooms. Ambrose O'Connell, '07, was general chairman of the din­ner and dance. The eloquent Hugh 
A. O'Donnell, '94, made a most charm­ing toastmaster for the program which followed the dinner. 
Capt. Lawrence "Biif" Jones, who coached his last Army team this year, was the principal speaker, and saluted the "national champions of 1929" on behalf of his Army eleven, express­ing also the fine spirit that exists between Notre Dame and West Point and hfs regret at retiring from his position as coach. 
Three of the famous "Four Horse­men" were at the speakers' table. Don Miller and Jimmy Crowley gave short talks expressing admiration for the Notre Dame team of 1929 and for the Army. Elmer Layden, the third member present, was forced to leave before the speaking program. Harry Stuhldreher, who piloted the immor­tal four, won his last game for Villa Nova the same afternoon and arrived in New York too late for the dinner. Eobert Zuppke, coach of the Uni­versity of Illinois eleven, was among the guests and gave a few remarks that were most entertaining concern­ing sevei-al of his meetings with Coach Eockne. Toastmaster O'Don­nell introduced Chairman O'Connell. Rev. Charles O'Donnell, C. S. C, and Mayor Walker, who were to have attended, were forced to absent them­selves. 

To the Editor, the outstanding fea­ture of the New York banquet was the number of alumni in attendance. The event was open to the friends of the University and alumni, and to women, but at no other similar occa­sion does the Editor remember hav­ing met so many Notre Dame men, of all Classes and from many distant cities. 
The third banquet was the Civic Testimonial Banquet, sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Jo­seph Valley, held in the spacious East Wing of the Noti-e Dame Dining Halls on the night of December 4. This event has become so important a trib­ute to Eockne and the Notre Dame team that the original capacity of the hall, 1,000, was stretched by the effi­cient management to squeeze 1,300 into the room, and hundreds were turned away. Bernard Voll, '17, was chairman of the banquet. The Gov­ernor of Indiana, Hon. Hari-y G. Les­lie, four of the coaches of Notre Dame's outstanding opponents, and hundreds of men prominent in educa­tion and industry were among the guests. Alumni from all the neigh­boring cities were represented. 
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C, '90, former president of the Universitj', chaplain of the Club, gave the invo­cation. Paul Castner, '23, former football star, now an executive of the Studebaker Corporation and presi­dent of the Club, gave a brief address of welcome and introduced one of the cleverest toastmasters that has pre­sided at a similar function, Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald-Examiner. Combining that i-arest of combinations (despite the old proverb) brevity and wit, Mr. Brown gave to the full program the same spice that makes his writing so popular. 
Four coaches of outstanding teams that felt the power of the 1929 team paid high tribute to Notre Dame and Knute Rockne by their presence at this testimonial banquet. All of them spoke in similar vein. H. 0. "Fat" Page, coach of Indiana University, William "Navy Bill" Ingram, coach of the U. S. Naval Academy, Capt. Lawrence "Biif" Jones, coach of the 
U. S. Military Academy, and Judge Walter P. Steffen, coach of the Car­negie Institute of Technology, were unanimous in their praise of Notre Dame as the country's greatest team and of Rockne as an outstanding lead­er in all phases of football. All ex­pressed their pleasure at sending their teams against Notre Dame. Coach Jones regretted his retirement as Army coach, and Coach Ingram expressed his appreciation and that of the Naval Academy at being in­vited to dedicate Notre Dame's new stadium next Fall. All of the talks indicated a sportsmanship that was eloquent refutation in itself of the charges against college football as it is alleged to affect the relationship of schools. Major John L. Griffith, ar­biter of the Western Conference, was unable to make final arrangements to attend the banquet as he had planned and sent a wire of regret. 
An interesting and entertaining exchange of conversation took place when Toastmaster Brown introduced a fellow Chicago columnist, Harvey Woodruff, of the Chicago Tribune. Both Mr. Brown and Mr. Woodruff in their talks exhibited a good will toward Notre Dame that has been evident on previous occasions, and both received the full appreciation of an interested audience. 
Jimmy Phelan, '17, coach of Pur­due's Conference championship foot­ball team, gave a talk in appreciation of Rockne and of Notre Dame, and spoke of Purdue's admiration for Notre Dame's achievement in such spirited and eloquent fashion that he took the audience by storm and must have contributed much to the recov­ery of the absent but listening Rockne. 
Unquestionably the masterpiece of the evening was the defense of college football by the Rev. Charles L. O'Don­nell, C. S. C, president of the Uni­versity. The humble proportions of the ALUMNUS do not at this time permit extensive comment on the speech, which the Editor hopes to see in print in its entirety soon, but Father O'Donnell presented the facts and convictions of an executive in the 
Part of Speakers' Table, St. Joseph Valley Banquet—(left to right) Jimmy Phelan,'17; Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., '90; Gov. Harry G. Leslie; Paul Castner, '23 (Pres.); Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., '06; Edw. KeUy; Capt. "Biff" Jones, U. S. A.; Byron V. Kanaley, '04; Harvey Woodruff; Miles O'Brien; William Ingram. 
words of a poet. The profound im­pression made upon his 1,300 listeners in the hall and the hundreds listen­ing in on the radio will never fade, but the Editor hopes that some medium will soon bring the discus­sion to a much wider public. Three phases of football, the public rela­tions, the financial returns, and the academic influences, were treated by Father O'Donnell in a way that left charges to the contraiy gasping for existence. The Editor isn't going to elaborate on this talk, because he fully expects that it will be heard or seen again many times, as one of the outstanding contributions to the ra­tional relation between athletics and the college. 
Hon. Harry G. Leslie, Governor of Indiana, gave the concluding talk. Governor Leslie, himself a former Purdue football star and a member of the ill-fated Purdue team that was so tragically broken up by a train wreck that killed many of its mem­bers outright, spoke in very friendly terms of the admiration of Indiana generally and of Purdue and all the followers of sport for Notre Dame, Rockne and the Noti-e Dame style of football. Governor Leslie has honored Notre Dame by his appointment of Prof. Knowles Smith to the State Pai'k Conser\'ation commission, and it was a pleasure for the University, through the alumni of the St. Joseph Valley, to entertain Gov. Leslie on the campus. 
The Notre Dame team was intro­duced to the audience by Assistant Coach Jack Chevigny, and was given framed photographs of Coach Rockne through the Club. Six members of the team were given beautiful desk pen sets, in recognition of their se­lection on the all-State team by an Indianapolis newspaper. The men wei-e Capt. Law, Elder, Carideo, Can­non, Colerick and Moynihan. Jack Elder was also given a football auto­graphed by Nancy Carroll in recog­nition of his scoring the most points in the N. D.-Army game. 
A word of wholly inadequate praise must be added here for the efficient manner in which the University Din­ing Halls, under the direction of Mr. Robert Borland, sei-ved regular sup­per to 1,000 students at 5 o'clock in this East hall, and two hours later in the same hall ser\'ed a well prepared and well served banquet to 1,300 guests. 
The University Band, under the di­rection of Joseph Casasanta, was a popular feature of the program. 
Judge John Eggeman, J. D. Oliver, Sr., Ed Kelly of the South Park Board in Chicago, Byron V. Kanaley, and Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C, were among those at the head table. Tom Mills, Jack Chevigny, Ike Voe­disch and Bill Jones, members of the coaching staff, and Dr. R. L. Sen­senich, personal physician of Coach Rockne, were introduced also. 

Through all of these accounts there is, as you have noticed, something vital missing. That something, of course, is Knute K. Rockne, '14, guid­ing genius of Notre Dame football and the oustanding figure in the mod­ern football world, who coached a national champion eleven largely from his bed where an infected leg con­fined him most of the season. Rockne attended only the Indiana, Southern California and Carnegie games, and his condition was such after each of these that he was forced to remain at home as long as his family, his physician and his will power could hold him. Toward the end of the sea­son, after the Southern California game, his condition was such that he definitely gave up attendance at further games. 
Naturally, attendance at social functions has been even moi'e out of the question, and the thousands of friends that have gathered to pay ti'ibute to his genius have, like the team, had to carry on in his absence. And like the team they have come through gloriously. 
Tom Lieb, who coached the team in Eockne's absence, has also labored under a handicap this Fall. Mrs. Lieb has been a patient at Mayo's, in Rochester, since the season opened, and a critical turn in her condition called Tom away from the St. Joseph Valley banquet, whex-e he was to have substituted for Rock. 
The ALUMNUS knows that it functions as the voice of the alumni when it expresses a sincere wish for the early and complete restoration of the health of both Mrs. Lieb and Coach Rockne. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 

"Reporting from San Francisco, the City by the Golden Gate, where many of Notre Dame's sons have come in the Pullman Company's 'covered wagon' to see if the advertising is really true; and this is the country 'Where Life is Better.' " 
"The boys assembled thirty-two strong Saturday Nov. 16, at 11:30 A. 
M. at the Elk's Club on Post Street for a luncheon and radio returns on the Notre Dame-University of Southern California game—And what a game!! Tony Gorman and Breen MacDonald acted as cheer leaders and Notre Dame men from all parts of the United States and Mexico yelled themselves hoarse with joy over the opportunity of once again serenading the team (although over 2500 miles away) with the Victory song which the team seemed to hear. 
Some of the fellows may be in­terested in what their friends are do­ing out here: Eustace CuUinan is, of course, piacticing law. As usual he is a leader in San Francisco. Eus­tace, Jr., is doing likewise and prom­ises to be likewise. John Mclnnis is with the Russell Colvin Company in the Bond business. Mark Kreutzer is with the Pacific Shipper Publication. Dr. J. M. Toner, our former pres­ident, is still City Super\-isor and we think we will make him Mayor. Harry Burt is Advertising Manager of tlie Richmond Leader. Professor Sulli­van i.= professor of Dramatics at the Notre Dame Convent, for girls. Harry Wagge is with White Motors. Tony Gorman started a business of his own, under the name of Sprague Gorman & Company, manufacturers of "Kut­sit" soap. Bert Dunne is with the Campbell Ewald Advertising Agency. Breen MacDonald is in business with his brother—Keene Fitzpatrick. 
CITY OF NEW YORK 
An important meeting of the New York Club will be held January 11, to which a group of prominent New-Yorkers has been invited. 
ROCHESTER, N. Y. "On Monday night, Dec. 23, the N. 
D. Club of Rochester will hire a hall, away from our usual headquarters. Dinner will be served at 7 and a stag party held thereafter. Tickets will be one dollar. To this party we have invited every one of the boys at school who will be home for the holi­days. Preliminary reports lead me to believe that the Christmas dance on the evening of Dec. 27 will be the finest party of its kind ever given by the Club . . . Gerry Smith." 
LOS ANGELES 
The ALUMNUS is in receipt of a splendid letter from Ray Daschbach, president last year of the L. A. Club. He says, "I number the three and a half years I spent at Notre Dame as the happiest of all my years on earth. I would like nothing better than to meet my old N. D. friends at Commencement time. 

December, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
DETROIT The Detroit Club has agreed to co­operate with the Detroit students at Notre Dame in a holiday dinner dance to be given at the Detroit-Leland Hotel. The date has been fixed tentatively for Dec. 27. Detroit was well represented at the Southern California game. Between three and four hundred journeyed by train and automobile to Chicago. Dui'­ing the two weeks preceding the game, the telephones of alumni were constantly busy answering a myriad request for tickets. It is estimated that several thousand tickets could have been handled had they been available. About the busiest man in Detroit these days is Raymond F. Kelly. Ray's duties as a lawyer have been in­creased by his election as secretary of the Detroit Bar Association. The state convention of the .-American Legion I'esponded, also, by electing him state commander. Ray recently made a trip to Washington in behalf of veteran relief ami he is losing no time in making the voice of Michigan legionnaires heard far and wide. Jim Foren has joined the business relations department of the Detroit and Security Ti-ust Co. 
TWIN CITIES 
The N. D. Club of Minneapolis and St. Paul are holding their second annual Christmas Ball at the Hotel Radisson in Minneapolis on the night of Dec. 23. 
CHICAGO 
The Editor had the pleasure of at­tending one of the weekly luncheons of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago (Nov. 22) and just wants to certify that Fred Steers, chairman, and vari­ous others responsible have one of the livest luncheon organizations yet hap­pened upon. The Ivory Room of Mandel's was crowded so that some of the boys coming late had to sit outside. The success of the "Rockne advisory committee" was so evident this Fall that the Editor hopes the sessions continue through the year as an "Alumni advisory committee." 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 
In the enthusiasm of the St. Joe Valley banquet the Editor left out last month the account of a very de­lightful dinner meeting of the Club held in the Lay Faculty Room of the University Dining Halls on October 
24. Rev. Thomas Lahey, C.S.C, gave a most interesting talk, partly de­voted to reminiscence and partly to the College of Commerce of the Uni­versity and its great possibilities. Prof. Clarence "Pat" Manion was the 
Testimonial Banquet—Notre Dame Club St. Joseph Valley, December i. University Dining Halls. 
other scheduled speaker, and gave a wonderful outline of the possibilities of the local Club in providing a welcome for out-of-town alumni who come back to Notre Dame and South Bend throughout the year. Frank E. Hering, who came out in spite of re­cent convalescence from a severe ill­ness, gave an extemporaneous ad­dress on the work of the group of Notre Dame men in the. high councils of the Fraternal Order of Eagles in the promotion of old age pensions. .Aside from the eloquence of the ad­dress itself, it was enlightening and stimulating to hear of the influence for good that these graduates of Notre Dame are wielding throughout the nation. President Paul Castner 
presided. 
TEXAS (student) 

The Texas Club, a campus organi­zation of Notre Dame men hailing from the far-flung corners of the Lone Star State, officially came into exist­ence recently when, at a meeting held in the Law Building, the constitution was adopted and officers were elected for the ensuing year. 
Edward G. Conroy, of San Antonio, was elected president; Joseph Dunne, of El Paso, vice-president; Louis Psencik, of SmithviUe, secretary, and Earl Brieger, of Taylor, treasurer. 
Plans were discussed for the first banquet of the club to be held soon. John -A.. Bitter was named to sen-e as toastmaster on that occasion. Wal­ter Langford was selected as chair­man of the Publicity committee and Edward McDonnough as chairman of the Smoker committee. 
FORT WAYNE 

"George Dinnen, treasurer of the Club, was elected councilman for the third ward in our recent election. He's a Democrat. Now the N. D. Club has a drag in the city hall." 
CONN. VALLEY (student) 

The Connecticut Valley Club held an important meeting in the Law Building Friday night, November 1. 
President Tim Toomey appointed Francis Farrell general chairman for 
the Christmas Formal. The dance TOU be held December 27, at the Hotel Bond, in Hartford, Connecticut. 
WASHINGTON D. C. News in promising though indefi­nite from comes from Washington, 
D. C, where the Club is planning its annual football banquet under the leadership of Dr. J. A. Flynn. At­tendance is estimated at 175, includ­ing many prominent figures in Wash­ington as well as in the football world. YOUNGSTOWN (students) 
Arrangements for the Youngstown Club's annual Christmas dance are nearing completion The club's dance this year promises to be a gala af­fair and will no doubt outrival those of the past years. Owing to the ever increasing crowds which attend the Christmas dance, the club has taken over the Stambaugh Auditorium for the evening. As yet, an orchestra has not been engaged, but the choice will be made from a group of prominent orchestras which have offered book­ings. 
The various committees have been hard at work for the past few weeks, and from their reports, a capacity crowd can be expected.- Invitations have been mauled to all the alumni and friends and the sale of tickets indicates that the club is very popular in the Youngstown district. 
Charles Cushwa, chairman of the dance, is being ably assisted by the following committees: Tickets-Joseph Wallace, chairman, Tom Enright, Mike Koken, and Tom Hughen. In­vitations- Ed De Bartola, and Gil Tiberio. Decorations and programs-Frank Savage, chairman, Charles Petretic, Gabe Moran, and Bill Fair. Music-Edward Madden, and James Biggins. In the suburban districts of Sharon, Hubbard, Girard, Niles, and Warreri-James Boyle, Sid Jackson, Ted O'Neil, Joseph Conea, and Patrick Conway will have charge of arrange­ments. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS December, 1929 
K. of C. Boy Guidance Course Proves Success 
A Survey of the GradvMes of the Course by Ray Hoyer, Director of the Notre Dame Foundation. 
W
ITH the graduates of the Boy Guidance course so widely scattered, it is difficult to keep track of them and their work. To many alumni the results of the work of this department, which was initiated less than six years ago, are of interest. Especially is this interest apparent in the case of alumni who are Knights of Columbus, since the Boy Guidance Department was made possible through' the cooperation of the Supreme Council and various state jurisdictions. I believe that a brief statement of the work in which these graduates are now engaged will be welcome to many readers of the ALUMNUS. 
Of the 1926 graduates, Joe Greenan has traveled farthest in point of mile­age. While at Notre Dame, Joe was better known as Brother Constantine, 
C.S.C. He is now in charge of Scout­ing for the Philippine Islands and talks Spanish like a native. 
Cyril Burchell elected to return to his home town, Edmonton, Alberta, where he is connected with the Cath­olic High School and with the local Knights of Columbus boy work. Burch took unto himself a wife several years ago. 
I had a very interesting get-toget­her with several members of this class while attending the International Boys' Work Council at Toronto in Oc­tober. Hector MacNeil played host, and how! Hec is director of the Cath­olic Boys' Club and Big Brother work there under the Toronto Council, Knights of Columbus. Advance pub­licity on the excellence of Hector, Jr. proved to be inadequate to describe the son and heir. Present were our rotund friend, Hogan Morrissey, di­rector of boys' work for the arch­diocese of Cincinnati, Al Connolly, managing director of the Boys' Club of Dayton, sponsored by the local Knights of Columbus, Jack Contway, secretary of the Supreme Knights of Columbus Boy Life Bureau at New Haven, and Bill McGowan, executive secretary of Catholic Big Brother work sponsored by the Alleghany Chapter, Knights of Columbus with headquarters in Pittsburgh. 
Among the other guests attending this affair were Clair Clancey, brother of Father Raymond Clancey, C.S.C. the genial rector of St. Edwards Hall, and Joe Sheedy, '05. 
Jim Egan, '24, Boy Guidance, '26, is back to his first love, the South Park Commissioners, Chicago. His job includes iifty yard line tickets for all Notre Dame games on Soldiers' Field. 
Dan Culhane, '23, is also located in the ^vindy City. Dan is director of the Union League Boys' Club at 19th and Leavitt, where men are men and boys plenty tough. 
I saw Tom Murphy in Boston last June. Tom must be making good. 
RAYMOND HOYER, M . A. '27 
Director Boy Guidance Course 

judging from his aldermanic propor­tions. He is coaching at.the Ringe Technical School, Cambridge, and di­recting school recreation centers and summer playgrounds. On November 12th Mrs. Murphy presented Tom with a daughter whom they have named Barbara Ann. 
Boy Scout Work is claiming two other members of the class. Ken Cook is executive at Quincy, Illinois, while Al Kirk is field executive for the northside district of the Chicago council. By the way, Al took the fatal step last spring. 
Urban Hughes is still guiding the destinies of the boys' work of the Long Island Chapter, Knights of Co­lumbus with headquarters in Brook­lyn. Urb has developed Camp K. C. at Monroe, N. Y. into one of the out­standing Catholic camps in the metro­politan district. I saw him last May when he stopped at South Bend long enough to introduce me to the wife whom he married a few days pre­viously in Winnipeg. One by one the 
boys are joining that army of un­
sung heroes. 
Gene McVeigh continues to direct the activities of the Columbus Cadets, a state organization for Catholic boys conducted by the New Jersey state council. Knights of Columbus. His office is in Newark. Gene reports that Eugene, Jr., is some youngster. 
Recent reports from Milwaukee state that Al July is still confined to his home. Al contracted tuberculosis shortly after graduation and has been fighting valiantly to get back into the harness once more. 
Tom Lieb, '23, Boy Guidance '26, has returned to his alma mater as Rock's assistant after a two years absence in foreign fields. Tom also entered the ranks of the benedicts last year. 
Romeo Leclerc, the man who made the song Alouette famous has disap­peared from .sight. At last accounts he was handling the boys' recreation in St. Dominic's Blauvelt, N. Y. Con­flicting reports now have him in such widely separated points as New York and Quebec. The writer will appre­ciate information. 
Holly Doyle is another one who pre­fers the old home town. He is teach­ing in Rochester, N. Y. Catholic High School and helping run a diocesan boys' camp summers. 
Bill O'Donnell finds the climate of Girardsville, Pa., so invigorating that he has remained there since leaving Notre Dame. He is helping the local youth to become bigger and better men. 
The Class of 1927 I also met Joe Beattie in Toronto. Joe is still at Franklin Street Settle­ment House, Detroit, in charge of Mens' and Boys' work. Walt McKen­na is also located in Detroit in charge of scouting in public schools. Art Bradley, after a year in the Ivips Boys' Club, New York, moved across the river to become assistant superintendent of the new Flatbush Boys' Club. Bill Fury is still at the Jefferson Park branch of the New York Boys' Club. I saw Bill at the Boys' Club Federation meeting in Boston last June. Joe Greeley after two years as Director of Activities in the Catholic 
December, 1929 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
Community Center, Fort Wayne, has recently joined the national staff of the Boys' Club Federation with head­quarters in New York City. He is using his talents along publicity lines. 
Jim Kerwin is assistant superinten­dent in charge of the physical edu­cation activities at the Boys' Club of Syracuse, N. Y. 
Bill Knowles has shaken the dust of Lansford, Pa. and has joined the ever increasing number of our gradu­ates in the metropolitan area of New York. Bill is director of the Kyan Branch of the Catholic Boys' Clubs. 
Duncan MacDonaUI has severed his connections with the Henry Street Settlement House, New York, and is now located in Hudson, N. Y. in charge of the local Boys' Club. Dun­can, Jr. arrived last August. 
Jim Mitchell resigned from the Scranton Catholic Men's and Boys' Club in June to become director of the Friars Club of Cincinnati. I vis­ited him and Morrissey while in Cin­cinnati last June. While there I was introduced to the two small Mitchells for the first time. 
Frank Olson surprised us all by en­tering the bonds of matrimony several months ago. Frank is connected with the Boy Scout council of Los Angeles and is handling the organization of Catholic troops. 
Les Pierce is at St. Thomas Col­lege, St. Paul handling the work of registrar. 
Basil Stanley, at last accounts was engaged in coaching one of the De­troit High Schools. 
The Class of 1928 
While word from Roy Bennett has not been received recently, at last ac­counts he was connected with the boys' work department of the Bright-moor Community House, Detroit. 
John Cody after a year at the Tau Beta Settlement House, Detroit, has resigned to accept coaching and phys­ical education in Lynn, Mass. I have no details; the only information re­ceived from John has come in the form of a frenzied plea for .Army tickets. 
Charley Ducey is connected ^vith the Knights of Columbus Boy Life Bureau, with headquarters in New Haven. Charlie is doing considerable editorial work, but is more especially responsible for the promotion of the Columbian Squire program of the or­der. He was associated with me last summer in the ten day Boyology courses at Lake Simcoe, Ontario, and Cliff Haven, N. Y. Charlie has con­tracted a bad case of golfitis since graduation. 
Les Flewelling has returned to his native state, California, being in charge of Boys' activities for the set­tlement and community houses by the Catholic Charities Bureau of Los Angeles. 
Gabe McPharlin has cast his lot once more with things agricultural and was at last account connected with the St. Vincent de Paul society of Detroit, in its program for rural boys. 
Pete Merloni, after a successful summer ^vith the Little Rock Boys' Club camp has returned to Framing-ham, Mass. 
Bill Murphy is back home in dear old Brooklyn and is doing volunteer work at the Flatbush Boys' Club after school hours. He teaches in a New York high school. 
George Neylon has returned to the Illinois Military School and can be reached at the Chicago headquarters of that institution. 
Class of 1929. 
-According to report, Larry Brown has returned to his old Alma Mater, Creighton and is giving courses in pedagogy and psychology. Next thing we know, he will be heading up a Boy Guidance department out there. 

Cy Costello is spending his time dash­ing about the continent directing Ten Night Boyology courses for the Boy Life Bureau of the Knights of Colum­bus, of which he is field secretary. Cy was with me for the summer courses and recently he spent a few days on the campus. Report has it that Cy is to be married at Easter. Cy, it will be recalled, took up the work for-, merly handled by the late Joe Becker, '2G. 
Jack Culhane was back in New York City at last reports after direct­ing the Paulist Boys' camp during the summer. 
Art Evans is finding his knowledge with the Catholic Big Brothers of Los -Angeles. He can be reached through the Catholic Charities Bureau. 
Jim Masterson has succeeded Father Mooney as head of the physical edu­cation department at Notre Dame and appears very busy every time I see him on the campus. 
Rus McGrath is with the New York Boys' Club at Avenue -A. and 10th Street. 
Steve Murray has recently gone to Northern Michigan where the big open spaces abound, to organize a new area council for the Boy Scouts. Steve can be reached at Marquette. 
Martj- O'Phelan is to assume charge of the new Catholic Community Cen­
ter at Hamilton, Ohio, as soon as the 
building is completed. Marty has 
been spending his time between St. 
Paul and Fort Wayne since returning 
from the New York Children's Aid 
Society camp where he spent the sum­
mer as assistant director. 
John Reilly joined the staff of the 
municipal recreation department of 
Houston, Texas, immediately after 
graduation He is director of the 
department of athletics. 
Here's a real surprise. Joe Ryan after a year at the New York Boys' Club, decided upon the religious life and is now a student in Brighton Seminary, Boston. 
Steve Schneider accepted the posi­tion of executive secretary of the Boy Life Bureau of the Wisconsin State Council, Knights of Columbus, with headquarters in Racine, in September and according to reports is spending most of his time flitting about his native state. 
George Ullrich after a summer at the Knights of Columbus camp for boys near Erie, of which he was direc­tor, has returned to his home in St. Louis and is considering an opening in the vocational guidance department of the public schools. 
Ansben'y Mentioned 

An article in a current magazine dealing with the Supreme Court, quotes an anecdote about former Chief Justice White, Laetare medal­list in 1914, and T. T. -Ansberry, '93, as follows: A few months before his death the Chief Justice was approach­ed one morning by Judge Timothy T. -Ansberry, former member of Congress from Ohio and then engaged in the practice of law in Washington. "Good morning, Mr. Chief Justice," said Judge Ansberry. "Good morning," was the response, but not recognizing -Ansberry, the Chief Justice added cautiously, "Is it possible that I have forgotten your name?" "It's Ans­berry," was the answer. "Oh, yes, my dear Ansberry," the jurist put in hastily. "You must excuse me for not recognizing you instantly. You know the cataracts are forming over my eyes and I do not see as well as did." "But," said Ansberry, "I no­tice that the cataracts yon' speak of do not prevent your seeing the defi­ciencies in my arguments before your court." Smiling broadly, the dis­tinguished old Judge laid a hand on Ansberry's shoulder saying, "My dear Ansberry, a blind man could see them." 
108 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS December, 1939 


War Mothers Honor Frank E. Bering 
Former Football Captain, Coach, Present Editor Eagles' Magazine, Member University 
Board of Lay Trustees, Decorated. 
BY JAY WALZ, '29 

R
ECOGNITION of his sen'ices and respect for his devotion to his ideals was the keynote of many testimonials paid Frank E. Hering at a banquet in his honor Thursday night, Nov. 14, in the Gold room of the Oliver hotel. Distin­guished guests at the dinner given in honor of Mr. Hering included na­tional officers of the War Mothers of America, who came to South Bend to present Mr. Hering with a decoration in recognition of his many sen'ices in behalf of their organization. After a thorough investigation. Mi-. Hering has been established as the founder of national Mothers' day. 
The six national officers of the War Mothers who attended the dinner were Mrs. Mary E. Spence, past na­tional president, Milwaukee, Wis., who presented the decoration to Mr. Hering; Mrs. Virgil McClure, Lexing­ton, Ky., national pi-esident; Mrs. Margaret McClure, Kansas City, Mo., past national president; Mrs. G. A. Howell, Altoona, Pa., first vice presi­dent; Mrs. William Dowell Oldham, Lexington, Ky., corresponding secre­tary, and Mrs. Carrie L. Root, ^ice­president and editor of the War Mothers' magazine. 
In the opening remarks of the program, S. B. Pettengill, who acted as toastmaster, reviewed briefly the work of Mr. Hering in establishing a national Mothers' day. 
"We who are engaged in various fields of actix-ity must often ponder over the labors and lewards of men engaged in different lines of human endeavor," he began. "There is the historian in his study, his desk piled high with books, his floor littered with manuscripts, ti-ying long after the event has come to fruition, to trace the stream of histoiy to its hidden springs. One of the keenest intellectual delights in that field which comes to a man is the histo­rian's joy of discovery, a joy mingled often with astonishment at the small­ness of the seed, and over what tor­tuous channels it has moved toward its event. 
"And so with our coming together this evening, unknown to us, we who gather for this meeting are the frui­tion of a seed sown more than a 
FRAXK E . HERING 
quarter of a century ago," the toast­master stated in referring to an ad­dress made by Mr. Hering on Feb. 7, 1904, at the English Opera house in Indianapolis in which he had "flung the seed" for a national recognition of Mothers' day. More than 20 years later on May 10, 1925, as "diplomats of many countries, cabinet officers, justices of the Supreme court gather­ed with them" the mothers of the soldiers of the World war gathered at Arlington cemetery. "And at that shrine came also the man who in 1904 at the Indianapolis Opera house had flung on the teeming soil of ideas his germinating seed." 
Mr. Pettengill concluded by speak­ing of the high honor to have been bestowed upon Mr. Hering at the national convention of the War Mo­thers held last September in Louis­\ille, Ky., when he with General Chai-les P. Summerall, chief of staff of the United States ai-my and Rear Admiral Robert E. Coontz, of the United States Navy were to have been decorated for distinguished ser­vice by the War Mothers. Mr. Her­ing was unable to attend the con­vention because of a severe illness, and for that reason a committee had been selected to decorate Mr. Hering in his home city. 
Mrs. Mary E. Spence was the first of the visiting War Mothers to be introduced, and in presenting the decoration of the War Mothers to Mr. Hering, she reviewed his untir­ing efforts in establishing Mothers' day, and of the crowning achieve­ment, the first national celebration of the day on May 10, 1925, in Arlington cemetei-y, at which Mr. Hering was the chief speaker. She also spoke of Mr. Bering's fight for the cause of old age pensions, which were being adopted now in many of the states of the Union. 
Rabbi William M. Stern, of Temple Beth-EI, the first speaker represent­ing South Bend, opened his i-emarks by saying, "I feel it is a privilege for me to be here and say a few words of felicitation on an occasion which I know must be one of the high points of Ml". Hering's life." Recall­ing the unanimity of spirit of the war days, and the whole hearted sacrifice of the soldiers, the rabbi spoke in dismay of the rapidity with which we have forgotten the ideal for which the war was fought. "I am glad to know that there ai-e such organizations as the American War Mothers. And who has a better right to see that the promises made the soldiers in the war ai-e not forgotten. I hope all the splendid aspirations in their hearts will be realized." 
Mi'S. Carrie Root in her remarks spoke of the delight of the committee, of which she was one, in honoring Mr. Hering who after all, she said, "is just a man." 
Former Mayor Eli F. Seebirt spoke of Mr. Hering in glowing terms. "I know of no man in South Bend I would rather honor than Frank E. Hering. I know of no man in South Bend who has brought so much fame to the city, and is so well known in the state and the Union. He achieved his recognition as a private citizen by means of his tremendous dynamism. A man cannot have so many good friends unless he possesses some remarkable qualities of man­liness." 
Mrs. Virgil McClure, the present president of the War Mothers in em­phasizing the high position held by woman in this country, eulogized Mr. Hering's mother. "It must be an hon­or to Mr. Hering's mother to know that her beloved son has been so honored by so fine a group of his fellow citizens, who know him better than any one else." 
Mrs. McClure recalled the stirring war days, and the sacrifices made by 

December, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
the boys who were sent overseas. "Only a mother knows how great is the nation's debt of gratitude," she said. "So long as there is need, so long as there is an unfortunate World war soldier in distress, so long will the War Mothers of America work and sacrifice to bring relief. 
"We are for strong defense," she continued, in outlining the program of the organization. "Only by such measures can the ideals paid for so highly be preserved. This year the War Mothers have added child wel­fare to their progi-am of service. But there is always one need—funds." 
The Eev. Matthew Walsh, C. S. C, former president of the University of Notre Dame, emphasized Mr. Hering's idealism. "I have always pictured Mr. Hering as one who has fought his way through opposition to his ideal. His question has always been 'Is there anything I can do?' It is only natur­al that he should be singled out as the man in America to receive the decoration presented him tonight." 
Mrs. G. A. Howell, as a Pennsyl­vanian, stated that her state was proud to lay partial claim to Mr. Her­ing, for he was born in that state and spent his childhood there. 
The Rev. Paul Benedict, pastor of St. Paul's Memorial M. E. church, spoke of Ml-. Hering's office, where he edits the Eagles' monthly magazine as a "factory of character." He stressed Mr. Hering's perseverance in overcoming obstacles. 
Mrs. Margaret McClure, who as president of the War Mothers in 1925 led the investigation which resulted in naming Mr. Hering as the founder of Mothers' day, related details of her research, and desci-ibed the coloi-ful ceremony in Arlington cemeteiy, at which Mr. Hering spoke. 
"America is no better than its homes," she said, "and it was for that reason the War Mothers undertook the task of finding the one responsible for establishing a Mothers' day." 
A. E. Erskine, a close friend of Mi". Hering's for several years, cancelled an engagement in Buffalo, N. Y., Thursday at which he was to have been a guest of honor, in order to pay his respects to Mr. Hering. 
Mr. Erskine spoke of the work done by Mr. Hering during the World war, as an organizer of the War Chest. "The honor paid him tonight is very fine. It is one he will not forget," he said. 
Mrs. William Dowell Oldham, the last of the War Mothers to be intro­duced, added to the tributes paid Mr. 
Hering, stating that nothing had been said that exceeded the man himself. 
The final tribute of the evening was made by the Rev. John Cavan­augh, C. S. C, former president of the University of Notre Dame, and a schoolmate of Mr. Hering's, when both attended the University of Notre Dame. "There were two notes to his character," Father Cavanaugh said. He always got what he went after, and he possessed a rainbow-like idealism. These characteristics have followed him through life." 
Mr. Heiung who was at one time a coach of the Notre Dame football team was hailed by Father Cavan­augh as the founder of the modern era of Notre Dame football, for "he introduced a new idealism to the sport, and presented a new view of the game." 
"Tonight honors a single one of his achievements. He has always been a dreamer of dreams, but has heeded the ditches and obstacles necessary to overcome in order to reach the ideal." 
In I'esponse to the many tiubutes paid him, Mr. Hering spoke as one deeply moved by the honor he had received. "I would be less than hu­man if I did not feel the honor given me," he began. "My position is one of humbleness." He continued by speaking of the invaluable work of the War Mothers. "I am going to continue the work I have been doing. These women here tonight are our guests. You have come here to honor them." 
Paying a glowing tribute to mothers he described in detail the first Na­tional Mothers' day program on May 10, 1925, at Arlington cemetery. 
Rockne in Public Eve 
Illness has not dimmed the sparkle of Rockne's star in the public firma­ment. He has been written of, by and for more than ever. An article in the November issue of Mentor, from his pen, is unusually interesting, under­taking to trace football back to the old Greeks, and thence through Rome and old England. It concludes: "If the battle of Waterloo was won on the playing fields of Eton, then the World War and any future war in which America may participate will find its victory secured on American football fields." 
The November American Magazine and the December College Humor con­tain articles about Rockne, the former by John Kieran, the latter by Jimmy Corcoran. 
"Juggler" Plans Issue for Ch'ads 
Old Timers will have their day when the Juggler publishes the first Alumni Number the Funny Fellow has attempted. The Alumni Number will be the Febuary issue, with dead­line for all art work and written work on the last day of January. The rea­son for the emphasis on the deadline: contributions from Alumni are not only requested, but they are asked for and encouraged. It is hoped especial­ly that former members of the Jug­gler staif will again assume the funny spirit, and send forth poems, two-line jokes, cartoons or cartoon ideas, cover suggestions, short plays, or any kind of material that may possibly be used. 
Material should be mailed to John 
L. Nanovic, Editor, 130 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana. Please send in all material as soon as possible, in­stead of holding it until deadline. Give class number with your name, and also state if you have been on the Juggler staff. 
McDonough Wins Big Post 
Andrew L. McDonough, '19, former track star, winner of the 880-yard run at the Indiana State meet in 1919, has been appointed assistant attorney general of the state of New Jersey. Andy will be assigned to the state department of banking and in­surance. His designation was urged by Commissioner Smith of New Jer­sey at a conference with Attorney General Stevens. He is a member of the firm of McDonough & McDonough, 211 W. Front St., Plainfield, N. J., and is a prominent member of the Notre Dame Club of New Jersey. 
N. D. Dramatist 
A South Bend theater advertised the early part of this month a play, "Smokescreen," winner of the 1929 Chicago Drama League prize. It was written by Robert Kasper, Ph.B., '07, 
A.M. '08, LL.B. '09. Mr. Kasper is now living on the shores of Lake Michigan, near Bridgman, Mich., not far from South Bend, where he is engaged in playwriting. The play presented locally dealt with a thrill­ing episode in Chicago police circles. Over 300 performances have been given on the R-K-0 circuit. Carl Sandburg, a neighbor of Mr. Kasper on the lake, commented very favor­ably on the piece in the Chicago papers. 

THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS December, 1929 
•••••)tiiiitiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiii)llt|iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiii 
"0 

EDITORIAL 

ll(Mlf('""(HtllMfllMtllMflll»IIH«IIM>ll 
NATIONAL CHAMPIONS 
r
HE ALUMNUS, merely as a matter of record, puts an alumni spirit that has been rampant and evident all season into print to congratulate the Notre Dame football team and coaches on another championship season. A record that is unique in football has had another glorious chapter written when all the laws of probabilities, average, gravity, or what have you, should have written "Finis" instead. 
Missionaries are adopting the airplane (cf. Father Kick). Not that the machine itself is expected to supply the needs of the natives, but that it is a quick and attrac­tive method of reaching the far places. The connection is obvious. Football, for Notre Dame, has been the vehicle by which the University's name has quickly and attractively reached the pro\'inces. Like the missionary, the real merit of the trip depends on what use the University, its students and its alumni make of their opportunities, ha\'ing arrived. 
EXPANSION 
r
HE fir.st article in this issue announces several de­cisions made or aproved by the Board of Directors. They are particularly significant in the development of the -Association and all alumni are urged to give the announcement special attention. 
Our Notre Dame association is ranked beyond its actual strength by its contemporaries, but we have been striving to achieve that ranking. We took an early and substantial lead in the alumni development in Catholic colleges. These are not boasts; they are facts. 
This is equally true—our position in both the non-Cath­olic and Catholic alumni fields is threatened unless we con­tinue to develop. The support of the graduates of Notre Dame both for the University and for the Association has not been strong enough to justify you in expecting as much as either, with all their faults, has given you. 
The action of the Board points toward bigger things in the immediate future. Know what is coming, and when it comes, support it. 
BEHIND THE LINES 
11 y^UCH credit is due, success in any field proves, 
/l/f where little credit is given. The football season -^ ^-^ just passed owed much of its color, much of its organized success to groups and individuals who did not appear in the spotlight. Tommy Mills, Jack Chevigny and Ike Voedisch were responsible for a lot of coaching; Herb Jones and a staff of nine assistants were behind Art Haley in the intricate distribution of tickets and handling of the affairs of the Athletic Office; John Quinn and Bernie Con­roy, with their assistants, held the difficult jobs of student managers for the squad; the University Band, under Joe Casasanta, contributed inestimable stimulus to team, stu­dents and public; Dan Barton and his assistant cheer lead­ers were responsible for the student cheering; Bob Hellrung and his S. A. C. were behind much of the success of the student trips, dances, etc. 
• •••tllltlllltllllltlllllllllllllllllllllDIIIIIIiDI 
..Q 

INTERHALL ACTIVITIES  
^/ \  PACE, particularly in publications, is the trickiest  factor in editing. Even with the enlarged ALUM­NUS, things seem to crowd in so that a far more  

discerning and able Editor than the present incumbent is needed to make the most of it. The immediate regret is the scant treatment allotted to interhall activities,' one of the real features of Notre Dame, and probably nearer to the majority of readers than many events considered more important on the surface. 
Consolation is found in the fact that, in spite of this omission, the interhall system continues not only to exist but to prosper. Athletics, debates, pep meetings, snow­ball fights, smokers,—all these are being conducted on a bigger and better plane than ever. There are now thirteen members in the interhall leagues, and-evei-yone does every­thing. The result is anything but the customai-y correlation of 13. 
Freshman, Sophomore, the new St. Edward's, Brown-son, Carroll, Corby, Sorin, 'Walsh, Badin, and the new "gold coast," Howard, Morrissey and Lyons, together with the hall-less but well organized Off-Campus "day dogs," com­prise the league. And while modern equipment and organization have dimmed somewhat the spontaneous luster of primeval combat and the pieturesqueness of costume peculiar to the older era, the underlying spirit is practically intact. 
THE CLUBS 

yfCTIVITIES this Fall have, as usual, demonstrated /~1 what the Local Alumni Clubs can do when an 
enthusiastic spirit, and the support of the member­ship are present. The work of the Association and the Club is to develop both enthusiasm and support so that activities throughout the year can share the same success. Those Clubs that have sponsored banquets, dances, and other activities during the football season are to be, and sincerely are, congratulated. The ALUMNUS only ventures to add the hope that the same initiative, the same contact, the same achievement, will be recorded during the next nine months. 
"SCRIP" 

^yCRIP, a new literary quarterly, attractively printed, I \ made up after the fashion of Pan, the magazine of ^"^ poetry and youth edited at Notre Dame in 1924 by Prof. Charles Phillips and Harrj"- McGuire, '25, is now the official literary magazine of the campus. The SCHOLASTIC has become a news weekly, devoted entirely to the chron­icling of current events and comment. 
The ALUMNUS welcomes this new outlet for campus expression and congratulates the editors on the high tone of the first issue. 
December, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Two N, D. Books Attract Attention 
P
ROFS. Edward G. Mahin and William Francis Eoemer have recently published books that are reflecting' individual glory and credit to Notre Dame. Alumni can interest and enlighten themselves by securing either of these two books in which they are interested and should be familiar with both as a matter of public relations in a field where Notre Dame desen'es and needs more credit. 
"Quantitative Analysis" by Prof. Mahin is an abridged edition of a much larger book of the same title. Prof. Mahin is the holder of a B. S. and an M. S. from Purdue University, where he taught from 1901 to 1925, when he came to Notre Dame as professor of analytical chemistry and metallurgy. He also holds a Ph. D. from John Hopkins University. Prof. Mahin has long been identified ivith the leading scientific societies in America and is one of the most prom­inent professors in his field. 
The first edition of "Quantitative Analysis" appeared in 1914, as a member of the International Chemical Series, published by McGraw-Hill Book Co , New York. This book is a text of 5S0 pages, comprising a course of two years in the subject, and it was well received, being adopted by more than a hundred twenty-five .\merican and foreign colleges and universities. It has run through three editions and is now in the seventh printing of the third edition. 
It was felt by the publishers that a condensed treatment of the subject in a smaller volume might be well received by colleges and universities whose major work lies in the field of liberal arts and general science. Al­though the larger book has found its way into many of such schools, its largest sale has been in engineering and technical schools. It was to meet this need that the present volume, "Introduction to Quantitative Analy­sis," was prepared by the author. This is an abridgment (227 pages) of the larger volume, although many changes have been made with the new-object in view. 
Phillips Edits Poems 
Prof. Charles Phillips is the editor of a posthumous volume of the poems of Ina Coolbrith, famous California poet, and a personal friend of Mr. Phillips. This volume will be titled 
Although the book came from the press in September, too late for ex­tensive use in fall classes, it has been widely distributed and considerable favorable comment has been received. Many college teachers have indicated their intention of using this book for second semester classes, or beginning next fall. 
The International Chemical Series now contains forty standard te.\ts, covering all phases of pure and ap­plied chemistry. Another book, "Quantitative Agricultural Analysis," written jointly by Professor Mahin and Professor Carr, of Purdue Uni­versity, also is a member of this series. 
"The Ethical Basis of International Law," by Prof. Eoemer is the other i-ecent book to attract wide attention to the University. Prof. Roemer is the holder of an A. B. from Gonzaga College, Spokane, of an A. M. from St. Louis U., and of a Ph. D. from Notre Dame in 1927. From this back­ground of Catholic education, Prof. Roemer has brought forth a treat­ment of international law with res­pect to its ethical phases that has met with unusually wide response, due to the timeliness of the topic and the growing realization that some­thing more than law must work out the solution of peaceful international relations. Comments from prominent figures interested in this problem have come to Prof. Roemer in most complimentary numbers. Dr. Roe­mer has been an associate professor of philosophy at Notre Dame since 1924. 
The volume consists of 190 pages, nine chapters and two very interest­ing appendices, the first of which is "Kant's Peace Theory" and the second, "International Ethics," a very interesting preliminary report presented to the Catholic Ass'n. for International Peace by its committee on international ethics, of which Rev. Charies C. Miltner, C.S.C, is a mem­ber. The Loyola Press, Chicago, is the publisher of the volume. 
"Wings of Sunset." Miss Coolbrith, 
one of the older generation of writers, 
was a personal friend of Charles War­ren Stoddard and Rev. Daniel E. Hud­son, C.S.C, for so many years editor of the Ave Maria. Prof. Phillips has written a preface to the edition 
The 
Women's Club 
The Ursuline nuns, Toledo, Ohio, some fifteen of whom have been graduated from Notre Dame, cele­brated the Diamond Jubilee of their foundation in the diocese of Toledo, on December 8, 1929. The program included the students from the kinder­garten to the college, and friends from bishops to the youngest of old students, extended through the week of December 7-14. 

On Saturday, December 7, the re­ligious of the Toledo Diocese and visiting religious of the Ursuline Order were entertained at dinner. On Sunday, December 8, Pontifical Mass was celebrated in the Cathedral by Et. Rev. Samuel A. Stritch, D. D., bishop of Toledo. He was assisted by Rt. Rev. John T. O'Connell, LLJD., V.G., P.A., and many of the priests of the Diocese. Seventy-five of the Ursuline nuns sang the Mass to which friends. Catholic and non-Catholic, were invited. On Monday, December 9, the children of the parochial stiiools which the Ursulines -teach, sang a High Mass at the Cathedral Chapel, and later were entertained at St. Ursula's Academy gymnasium. On Tuesday, December 10, the Mass was attended by the private schools and high schools taught by the Ursu­lines. On Wednesday, December 11, a Reception from 2:00 to 7:00 was held at St. Ursula's Academy for Mary Manse College students and alumnae, St. Ursula's alumnae, St. Ursula's scholarship, and other friends. Thursday, December 12, was Memorial Day. A Solemn Requiem High Mass was sung in the Convent Chapel at ten o'clock for all the deceased members of the Order. At 12:00 dinner was served to the priests of the Diocese and other clergy. Saturday, December 14, the doctors who have given their services to the nuns were entertained at din­
ner at 6:00 o'clock at St. Ursula's 
Academy. 

It was a former superior of the Ursuline Convent, Toledo, who founded the first missions to the In­dians of the Northwest, and later the missions to the Esquimo. 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS December, 1929 
University Starts $400,000 Law Building 
Even the cynical lawyers believe in Santa Claus. 
Work has been begun on the long hoped for new building to house the College of Law of the Universitj'. Present facilities have crowded the Hoynes College until its very aca­demic life has been threatened by the various powers in position to threat­en. Worry has ceased, and dean, faculty and students are preparing to enter the beautiful new Law building post-office, set back from both Notre Dame Avenue and University Boad sufficiently to pei-mit landscaping. It will have a frontage of 157 feet on Notre Dame Avenue, and 100 feet on University Road. 
The building will be true Gothic style, three stories high, trimmed with Indiana limestone and granite. The building will harmonize in general with the more modified Gothic archi­tecture of the Dining Halls. 
PRESEXT HOYNES COLLEGE OF L.\W 
ne.\-t Fall and place the Notre Dame College on a par with the best in the country. 
Maginnis and Walsh, Boston, lead­ing architects for college buildings, are the architects. Wendel Phillips, '12, associated with the firm, has been largely interested in the new project. Ralph Sollitt and Sons, contractors for the University Dining Halls and the new stadium, are in charge of the new building and have transferred their excavation equipment and men from the stadium to the Law Build­ing and the contract calls for its com­pletion for the opening of school, 1930. Estimated cost of the building is $400,000. 
The new Law building is the second of the new buildings of the University to cross what was formerly Dorr Road. It will stand on the plot of ground across from the University 
Interior beauty is one of the out­standing features of the plans for the building. The finish and trim will be oak, with an exposed hammer-beam ceiling in the reading room. Unit heaters, with both steam and warm air, and a modem ventilating system will control the building. 
The new building has more than architectural signifiance. Immediate­ly, it means the difference between membership and non-membership in the Association of American Law Col­leges, and recognition by many im­portant organizations that accompan­ies such membership. It means the difference between graduating law­yers who have had ample facilities and those who have suffered from lack "of class and library space. It means the difference between a crowded, limited and temporarily ar­ranged law library, and a spacious. 
gi'owing and accessible librai-y. In short, it seemed to be the difference between turning out the successful lawyers that the Notre Dame College of Law has always graduated, yield­ing to the demoralizing effects of overcrowded conditions, or limiting the advantages to a smaller group of students. 
Notre Dame's College is the oldest Catholic college of law in the United States. It is the outgrowth of a course established at Notre Dame in 1869, and was officially designated a College in the reorganization of the University in 190.5. 
In 1919 the College moved from Sorin Hail to Hoynes Hall, named in honor of Col. William J. Hoynes, now Dean Emeritus, whose life-long labors laid the foundation for the present gron-th of the College. 
Thomas F. Konop, an alumnus of the U. of Nebraska, a member of Congress from 1911 to 1917, a mem­ber of the Industrial Commission of Wisconsin from 1917 until 1922, was called to Notre Dame as Dean of the College in 1923. Mr. Konop was for­merly a law partner in Green Bay, Wis., of John Diener, '09, now mayor of Green Bay. 
It is the aim of the College to give its students a thorough and practical preparation for the practice of law in any state. The case method of in­struction is used. The College offers a combined six year progi-am with the College of Arts and Letters, three years in the latter and three years in Law, leading to the two degrees of 
A.B. and LL.B. upon satisfactory 
THOMAS F . KONOP 
Dean' of the College of Law 

December, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
completion. The College also accepts  
a limited number of special students,  
not candidates for degrees, if other  
qualifications are satisfactory.  
The College of Law sponsors the  
publication of the Notre Dame Liuv­ 
ycr, published monthly and treating  
problems and cun-ent events of inter­ 
est to students of law, but outside  
the curriculum. An active Law Club,  
general organization for law students,  
and the "Eleven" clubs, groups of  
eleven freshmen lawyers, promote  
extra-curricular development among  
the students.  
The faculty of the College of Law  
numbers eleven. Dean Konop, Profs.  
Clarence Manion, A.M., Ph.JL, J.D.;  
James F. Kirby, A.M., J.D.; Elton  
Riehter, A.M., J.D.; Aaron Hugue­ •  
nard, LL.B.; L. 0. McCabe; A.B.,  
LL.B.; Homer Earl, A.B., J.D.; Eev.  
Paul Doherty, C.S.C, LL.B.; Hon.  
Orlo Deahl, LL.B., Judge of the Su­ 
perior Court, South Bend; Hon. M. M.  
Oshe, LL.B., Chicago, special lectur­ 
er; John A. Whitman, A.M.; Law  
Librarian and professor of biology.  
Col. William J. Hpynes, A.M., LL.D.,  
is dean emeritus of the College.  
The success of the Notre Dame Col­ 
lege of Law is adequately evident in  
the success of the gi-aduates of the  
College. The alumni have been uni­ 
formly and outstandingly successful  
in the bar examinations of practically  
all of the states of the Union, and it  
is difficult to name a city in which  
there are not one or more prominent  
Notre Dame attorneys. A number of  
older alumni hold outstanding posi­ 
tions as special attorneys, and the  
bench has been graced by a very  
representative pei-centage of gradu­ 
ates.  Cot. WlLLIA.ir J.  HOYXES  
Enrollment in the College for 1929­ Dean  Emeritus  
30 is 143.  

gler. Harley McDevitt, '29, grad­year reflected much credit on the 
Neiu Cavipus Magazine 
uate manager of publications is busi­Band and on its director. Sci-ip, the quarterly literary off­ness manager of the new magazine. spring of the Scholastic, made its Six undergraduates are represented 
first and attractive appearance on the University Players 
in the first issue, which was com­campus early this month. Its form A student cast, augmented by Mrs. prised of 32 pages of poetry and is in keeping with ihc high quality Norbert Engels as Katharine, will varied short forms of prose. 
of its contents. A number of alumni 
present Shakespeare's "Taming of the and members of the faculty are repre­
Shrew" on Dec. 16 in the newly sented in the initial issue, including Band Trip Success decorated and seated Washington Hall Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C S.C, '11; The University Band, under the 
theater. The production is under the 
Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C, '20; Prof. direction of Prof. Joseph Casasanta, 
direction of Prof. Frank Kelly. Norbert Engels, '26; Jack Mullen, '28, attended the Notre Dame-Army game and Murray Young, '29. this year for the first time. The added Louis Heitger, a senior in the Col­color and the fine impression made by Harold Lloyd and N. D. At the risk of co-operating with a
lege of Commerce, is chairman of the the boys and their music, even under the trying conditions at the game, press agent the -4.LUMNUS repeats a
board of editors, which consists of Cyril Mullen, '30, brother of Jack were the subject of wl e comment by rumor that Harold Lloyd would like everyone. The Band was also a prom­very much to turn out another college 
Mullen, '28, and president of the Scribblers; Louis Brennan, '32; and inent factor at all the Chicago games. picture, with the Notre Dame foot­ball team as one of the features. 
John Nanovic, '30, editor of the Juff-Both music and formations during the 
Adult Education and the Alumni 
A Statement by the Aims and Policies Committee of the American Alumni Council. 
W
E, the undersigned, members of 
a Committee on the American 
Alumni Council most of whom have 
been in constant touch with the de­
velopment of organized alumni affairs 
in America for nearly a quarter of a 
century, submit the following obser­
vations as a preliminary to our con­
ference on the continuation of intel­
lectual activities of college graduates 
after they have left their several 
institutions: 
Preamble:— 
This memorandum is submitted 
primarily to clarify our own position 
before this conference and to elim­
inate discussion which otherwise 
might be necessary to orient those 
members of the conference who 
directly represent "the alumni." 
Each and every individual whose name is signed to this memorandum believes 
(1)
 That the college and university public in this country as represented by the inclusive tenn "alumni" is an immense potential force which can and should be aligned behind and in support of the cause of education in general and the academic institutions of America in particular; 

(2)
 That for causes which are as well known to us as to you, and as frankly recognized by us as by you, the interest of a hea^'y majority of these alumni in their respective insti­tutions and in the cause of education, has been neglected, warped, nullified, or held dormant; 

(3)
 That there is recurring e\'i­dence to indicate a steadily growing realization on the part of college graduates that, up to the present, intellectual development is prone to stop on graduation; 

(4)
 That the alumni have demon­strated their ability to organize them­selves and members of the non-col­legiate public for any purpose that can be demonstrated as having a tinge of merit; 

(5)
 That the psychological time has arrived when plans should be made and actual attempts started to fit the alumni wherever possible and practical into the larger scheme of American higher education; 

(6)
 That the determination of the form of such participation is pri­marily a job for "education" in con­


trast to "alumni," and that it is a job of the alumni to create and prepare a receptive public. 
I. Prior to 1913 practically all "alumni activity" consisted solely in the development of social contact between sections of the alumni them­selves and the institutions or repre­sentatives thereof. There were iso­lated instances indicating a deeper purpose but these were hardly num­erous enough to attract general atten­tion. Sporadic attempts by organized alumni to be helpful educationally were generally spoiled by representa­tives who were more vocal than sane and most of these proved abortive so that either rightly or wrongly a traditional feud between the organized alumni and the institution existed. 
As graduates became more numer­ous and as means of communication were extended the facilities for organization were developed cor­respondingly, so that by 1913 there were several dozen full-time alumni executive officers and the foundations had been laid for a like number of alumni offices. Little was known or thought about the force that might be unleashed nor was much if any con­sideration given to the possible good or evil that might result should the force be harnessed. 
Solely for the consideration of com­mon problems the alumni representa­tives of some of these few dozen in­stitutions met at Ohio State Uni­versity in 1913 and there organized the Association of Alumni Secretaries. Five years later Alumni Magazines Associated came into being, as did the Association of Alumnae Secretaries. Two years ago these organizations were consolidated to form the Ameri­can Alumni Council which now repre­sents the organized alumni of this continent with 250 institutions in its membership, ^\-ith a constituency of approximately 800,000 college or uni­versity alumni, and ^vith 125 periodi­cals reaching this constituency with a fair degree of regularity and fre­quency. The country as a whole has been divided geographically into ten districts the more easily to meet for discussion of concerns common to a particular locality. 
For nearly a dozen years after 1913 the chief consideration of the mem­
bers of these national organizations was "alumni technique." It was be­coming more and more apparent that the alumni were a potential force, but there were so many elements in the situation that required foundation-laying from a purely organization standpoint that the alumni themselves were prone to miss the woods for the trees. For this reason and because of the intervention of the war with concomitants this purely organization period has been unduly prolonged. Today, however, we feel very strongly that even though purely organization problems will always present them­selves in alumni affairs, basic or­ganization questions have been rea­sonably well solved. The alumni themselves realize and feel strongly the futility of organizing solely for the sake of organization. To use a worn out phrase they feel they are all dressed up with no place to go. They believe there are several invita­tions pending but feel sure that the alumni prefer not to crash the gate until they are certain of the welcome to be accorded them by their host or hostess. They admit frankly that on occasion they have violated social proprieties in this regard, and in­di\'idually having learned their lesson, prefer to make sure of their reception although they feel certain they can contribute considerable to the part}''s entertainment. 
II, The most valuable evidence proving that the alumni themselves recognize the end of this period of organization has come is the char­acter of the programs and discussions demanded for each national confer­ence. Topics relating to office or­ganization and method, subscription campaigns, magazine make-up, radio-night programs, etc., have been relegated largely to district meetings while national conventions have been reserved for consideration of matters of larger policy. The very fact that such programs over the last three years have all concluded with a ques­tion, in effect, "Where are we going ultimately?" is firm indication that our clientele is giving serious thought to the goal, which they recognize very clearly has been indistinct. 
Other evidence is the recent whole­sale departure from the alumni field of men and women who entered it with enthusiasm and who have de­voted to it a considerable and notable degre of energy. These individuals, after recoi'ding genuine success in their jobs from a mere organization standpoint, see their work accom­plished and no next step. Some move directly into the field of university administration which holds out se­curity of tenure. Others desert edu­cation entirely for business. In practically evei-y case the cause of education has lost a firm support and lost him only because he regarded his work as done. He saw nothing in the alumni field to do next. 
Besides, alumni organizations them­selves are more introspective than ever before. In recent years prac­tically every institution has had at work in its central alumni body a committee of the "plan and scope" vai'iety with a view toward an accomplishment they know not what. Without realizing it all these com­mittees need direction from some point which will carry the weight of authoritative and unbiased study. 
We believe that a combination of the American Association for Adult Education and the American Alumni Council can construct an arrow to point the way. The American Alumni Council has appointed to study this task the individuals presenting this memorandum which constitute its Committee on Aims and Policies. 
III. As further evidence we pre­sent the additional modern phenom­enon of the alumnus who no longer loudly proclaims his loyalty to alma mater but who is inclined to demand a quid pro quo. Throughout the entire alumni field we gather this changed sentiment. From the standpoint of organization solely this presents acute problems to the alumni executive officer who must have members as his clay to work with and a reasonably sympathetic constituency from which to garner that membership. But from the standpoint of this particular study even more difficult elements are injected into the situation which flare back into the student life of these same alumni. For we alumni find that there are being graduated into the alumni ranks each year men and women who not only seriously ques­tion the value of joining an alumni organization from any standpoint other than a quid pro quo basis, but who, after being exposed to college education for from one to five years, not only question the value of their experience but the value of higher education, as at present conducted, at all. It may veiy easily come about that one of the most valuable findings of this conference will be the selection of some means to clarify in the minds of alumni while they are yet students, not what the alumni association will give him for his three or five dollars but what he's in college for, what his college or university exists for, and what it has done and is doing to justify this existence. It is even pos­sible that if we get this far, a great many institutions which have not done so as yet will find it for their best interests to get a bit intro­spective themselves and look to where they are going and what kind of edu­cation they are providing the citi­zenry storming their citadels. 
IV. Assuming that the alumni have reached the end of their or­ganization period and are looking for something to do, and assuming that they are restless without anybody knowing just what the trouble is, we, representing "the alumni" can and do offer efi'ective machinery and compe­tent personnel to help the cause of education and support the efforts of individual institutions in finding out what can be done about it, if this con­ference results in a discovery of any­thing effective to be done. Yet we alumni who contend that we know our field thoroughly, ought to and do recognize how futile it would be for alumni associations to advise the educational administrators in our respective institutions on such a problem. We believe it exists and the steadily increasing interest in adult education throughout the country confirms this belief. 
From the standpoint of this study that alumnus is least valuable whose blind loyalty carries him no further than a deep belief that his recollection of things as they were during four impressionable years of his youth are best. We readily admit that this type of alumnus has been vocal above all others during this organiza­tion period, but he is losing ground, just as in our undergraduate ranks the "collegiate" youth is almost pass5. The underlying cause for all this is changing educational conditions. The alumnus of the nineties or pre-war days can not understand and does not understand these modem conditions and for that reason, generally speak­ing, the alumni are least competent at present to advise in strictly educa­tional matters. We admit this frank­ly, and we don't presume to suggest that we alumni take a hand there. It is in this growing realization in modem life that graduation from college is indeed a Commencement that we think we can be of service to educational institutions, bringing to bear the full force of our ability and experience in organization. 
But here we must stop. The admin­istrations and faculties must recog­nize the demand of the adult public for the intellectual food which they look to the colleges and universities to supply. The alumni, in addition to suppljring a public to create it, can and we believe will, if properly directed, throw the weight of their organizing experience and ability in the alumni and other fields back of any well-devised attempt to meet it. If we as a national organization single-handed attempted to recom­mend an educational program of education involving our institutions with the alumni public without the help of cur respective educational officials, we, although this time our suggestions would be entirely sound from every standpoint, would never­theless lay ourselves open to the same accusations, thoroughly justified on former occasions, of interfering sen­timentally in things which are not our business. 
Although for many years the alum­ni, open to criticism as we confess ourselves in some particulars, have listened with approval and sympathy to demands from our institutions, there are indications already that these same alumni are ready to face ant! Solicit from the colleges and uni­versities a corrf.-jponding attention to their intellectual life, e\en though it may mean challenging soi.ie of the established and ingrained attitudes toward education which have obtained in this country up to the prei-eut time. 
V. As an evidence of the organ­izing ability of oiid alumni executives we submit briefly, in addition to the figures given earlier, the following approximicij.is: 
(1)
 Active membership in alumni associations: 75,000 in 1913; 800,000 in 1928. 

(2)
 Twenty-five alumni offices in 1913; 250 in 1928, all functioning, from the mechanical standpoint, prac­tically in conformity to programs laid down by the American Alumni Coun­cil. 

(3)
 Twenty-five alumni magazines in 1913 of varying shapes, sizes, and policies; 125 in 1928 standardized mechanically. Subscriptions have risen from 35,000 in 1913 to 250,000 in 1928. It is in the editorial develop­ment of the alumni magazines that one of the most acute problems still faces the Council. 


(4) The latest available compre­hensive tabulations of gifts to colleges and universities by alumni or as a re­sult of alumni organization is that published in January 1926 by the John Price Jones Corporation which for several years has been intimately associated in extensive efforts to raise large sums for educational in­stitutions. The total amount is ap­proximately §150,000,000, nearly half of which was given by the alumni themselves. In the report of which the tabulation is a part an interesting conclusion is drawn: 
"Alumni do not play as important a giving part as sometimes is believed. On the other hand the enthusiasm, intense loyalty, hard work and sacri­fice represented in the alumni gifts are responsible for part of the pub­lic generosity. The public and the foundation gifts become of increasing importance. This is tnie even where we have an institution with a large body of wealthy alumni, because we recall that Har\-ard, having raised the largest aggregate alumni gift on the list, afterward went out for ad­ditional funds in a special prospect effort, and obtained the large gifts of Mr. George F. Baker and other public-spirited people." 
(5) The printed recoi-d of the pro­ceedings of fifteen annual conventions of the Association of Alumni Secre­taries, Alumni Magazines Associated, and American Alumni Council. 
FREDERICK S. ALLIS, Amliei-st 
J. L. JIORRILL, Ohio State HARRIET SAI^'YER, yassaj-WILFRED B. SH.\W, Michigan FLORENCE H . SXOW, Smith, 
ex-officio LE\'ERING TYSON, Columbia, Chairman 
Rev. Leo L. Wai'd Honored 
Father Leo L. Ward, C.S.C, '20, has been signally honored by Edward 
J. O'Brien, famous compiler of the "Best Short Stories" series. Mr. O'Brien's 1929 volume contains "Pos­session" which appeared in the Mid­land which Mr. O'Brien rates among the leading American magazines in literary quality, and Mr. O'Brien has honored Father Ward's story with three stars for unusual merit, and has placed Father Ward on the roll of honor of the American short story. 
Father Ward was graduated in 1920 and was prominent in undergraduate literary life as well as a monogram basketball man. He was ordained in 1927. 
N.D. Wedding of Interest 

To dissipate the idea that the alum­ni and the athletic office are complete­ly estranged, in fact to indicate very much the contrary, Miss Marie Wil­liams, who for several years has handled the recording of the profits and losses of the Notre Dame athletic system, and THOMAS DEMPSEY, '25, of Seattle, Washington, were mar­ried in the Log Chapel at the Uni­versity on Nov. 27. Rev. Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C, vice-president of the University and chairman of the Board of Athletic Control, performed the ceremony. 
Mr. and Mrs. Dempsey went east on a honeymoon which included the Notre Dame-Army game in New-York City. Mr. Dempsey has re­turned to the Pacific Coast and will be joined there by Mrs. Dempsey the first of the year. She has remained at Notre Dame to try to figure out the $800,000 profits that some en­thusiastic journalist awarded Notre Dame for the season just passed. After Feb. 1 they will reside in Seattle. 
N. D. Pnests at Convention 
Rev. Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C, and Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C, at­tended the national convention of Catholic Charities in New Orleans, Nov. 10 to 15. Father Murray read a paper on the new probation train­ing course at Notre Dame and Father Mulcaire delivered an address on the new relations between capital and labor. 
A. S. M. E. Chapter at N. D. 
A branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers was or­ganized at Notre Dame in November. Prof. William L. Benitz presided at the organization, and the chapter ex­pects to secure twenty-five members. The Society has branches at a num­ber of the larger technical schools, and it is considered an honor for Notre Dame to secure such a chapter. 
Glee Club Popular 

The University Glee Club, under the direction of Prof Joseph Casa­santa, won unusual favor with a broad on Nov. 16 over the NBC chain, through the Armour Hour, as a fea­ture in conjunction with the N. D.­So. California game. The Club was a guest at a prominent Chicago res­taurant before the broadcast and at a theater afterivard, singing a fev.­numbers at each. 
Campus Drainage 

A new tile drainage system is being installed on the campus to care for the new stadium and Law Building. It is also expected to do away with the intricate system of inland water­ways that have become traditionally associated with the street car ter­minal. 
Father Ryan on Committee 
Rev. John Ryan, C.S.C was a mem­ber of the Indiana State committee for the commemoration of the 250th anniversaiy of the landing of the Chevalier de La Salle, which was cele­brated throughout the state on Dec. 
5. The committee was composed of state historians. 
J.F. McMahon, '28, Success 
In the same manner, with which he characterizes our fighting, foot-ball phalanx, "the Galloping Gaels," one of our 1928 grads has been discovered galloping along in the fast field of sports-writing and running "in the money." 
John F. McMahon got his A. B. in Journalism a scant eighteen months ago, after following a tedious trail of earning his way for four years. At that, John found time to write for campus, and South Bend publications. In the Press Club, too, he was an active worker. 
Immediately after graduation, TOth­out stopping to have his diploma framed, he flagged the first train for New York, the mecca of aspiring news-writer. A Bronxville paper gave John his first job. The "march was on." 
Today we find his "by-line" in the sports' section of a great metro­politan newspaper, the New York SHU. Journalistic distinction has been achieved. The spirit of Notre Dame, the philosophy of Dr. Cooney, the will and nen'e to do have scored again. 
His football stories fairly breathe the atmosphere of old N. D. Color, originality, and vivid imagery animate his writing. Especially good were his pre-game articles on the Notre Dame-Army encounter. They gave a brief history of the relations of the two in­stitutions and teams. Fairness, ac­curacy, and freshness characterize the accounts making them good reailing 
Following closely in the footsteps of Frank Wallace, "Archie" Ward, and a host of other journalists cradled at Notre Dame, John McMahon is proving to those "down the line" that it can be done. 
December, 1929 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
Q.. llllttlllDlllllllllllllllltlllttllllllllllllllll 
TMy Also Serve,.,. 
PROFESSOR FRANKDirects University  KELLY Theatre  EoBT. BORLAND, MGR; DINING HALLS An Armii Moves on Its Stomach m^^^g^ms^smBssm ^^'^CBS^Ho^w ^^^^^^^•IBIIII  
-.is-.j^-iiiiss-,­--i-^fsSKt^^^^^^m  
MURRAY MICKEY LEY Editor of the "Scholastic"  REV. MICHAEL MULCAIRE, C.S.C. Chairman Athletic Board  BOB HELLRUNG Chairman S. A. C.  

HOX. WiLLLVJI P. BREEN GEORGE KEOGAN BOB PROCTOR 
Gives the Breen Medal Czar of Interhall Games Speaks at Pep Meetings 
• IIIIIIIIMIIIiillllll 1 IIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIt tlllll* ..Q 
B 
iiiiMnlllitiiiiiiiiimiUIIMMIIIItlllttlMiiiixiKiii) 
"EJ 

Q... Q" ..Q 
I NATIONAL CHAMPIONS! \ 
\ Notre Dame, 14—^Indiana,  0 i  
I Notre Dame, 14—^Navy,  71  
I Notre Dame, 19—^Wisconsin,  0 i  

I Notre Dame, 7—Carnegie Tech, 0 : i Notre Dame, 26—Georgia Tech, 6 i i Notre Dame, 19—Drake, 7 i I Notre Dame, 13—Southern Cal. 121 I Notre Dame, 26—^Northwestern, 6 i I Notre Dame, 7—^Army, 01 
Totals 145 
.!i 
B" 
The details of Notre Dame's march to the national championship have been treated in every paper in the country. It is more for record than information that the ALUMNUS here repeats the highlights of that march. No account can do justice to the work of Carideo, Cannon, Moyni­han, Savoldi (the greatest ground-gaining full-hack of the season), MuUins, Elder, Brill, Captain John Law, Twomey, and the whole gallant company, many of whom have been recognized in the selection of the various honor teams throughout the country. 
Although Notre Dame finished, in the van, her final four games of the season, she did not win these with­out a struggle. Moreover, these games were the hardest and toughest on the entire schedule because the result of the season depended so much upon them. 
The game with Drake on Novem­ber 9, slated to be a set-up for the Fighting Irish almost turned out to be the opposite, for Drake led at the end of the third quarter by the nar­row margin of 7 to 6. Drake scored their first and only touchdown of the game with but seven and one-half minutes played in the initial quarter. Notre Dame came back, however, in a few minutes as Schwartz broke loose for a 45-yard gallop, and fol­lowed by plunges and end runs from the 25-yard line, Al Howard, full­back, carried the ball across. 
The first of the two touchdowns in the final period was netted on a long, 
ATHLETICS: 

tllltlllllllitllittlllMllllllilllllllllll I til lllTSI 
BY JOHN KIENEK, '32 

17-yard line just as the third quarter 
ended, and on the first play as the last 
quarter began. Elder followed a 
blanket of perfect interference around 
end for the touchdown. It was a 
beautifully executed criss-cross play 
and Elder was able to cross the goal 
with his four-man interference run­
ning in front of him, there being no 
Drake players near at any time. 
MuUins made the final touchdown on 
a 23-yard dash though center, the 
runner shaking off several tacklers 
and cutting through to the goal. 
Next on the schedule was the thrill­ing spectacle performed in Soldier Field before the world's record foot­ball crowd of 122,500 fans, who en­joyed the struggle from beginning to finish. Well they might have, for this Southern California-Notre Dame game was one of the most hotly con­tested intersectional games ever played by Notre Dame. After a bad start, wherein California scored its first touchdown in the first few min­utes of play, Notre Dame's eleven came tearing and smashing its way down the field to even up the score. 
Aspit scored the first marker of the game for the Trojans by taking a long pass from Duffield which had all the earmarks of surprise tagged on it. Not dismayed, however, the Fight­ing Irish retaliated in the second quarter when Jack Elder cut around to the right side of the line, stepped in back of his interference, aimed to toss a pass but stopped and watched his men take out the California ends coming in, then with perfect ease let 
MOYNIHAN 
Broken Ankle Ends Career 

loose a beautiful 53-yard pass which Tom Conley took on the 15-yard line. Carideo missed the goal and the score was knotted at six-all. 
Joe Savoldi started the second half by running the kick-off back 35 yards. On an exchange of punts Carideo sprinted 25 yards, finally being forced out of bounds on Southern Califor­nia's 13-yard line. Elder ran around right end but steped out on the three-yard line and it was up to Savoldi to dive across for the marker. Carideo then place-kicked for the extra point, which proved to be the winning tally, for a second later Russ Saunders, sensational Trojan quarter­back, took the kick-off close to the 
sweeping pass from MuUins into Cannon, Law, Carideo and Elder Carideo's outstretched hands on the 
—Drawn for the New Yorker by Johnn Bull. 
December, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
RlillDIII IIIMtlllllllllllllllllllltllHIHIIIIIllllllHlllllllllpy 
i STATISTICS OF THE SEASON 
I First Downs: = I Xotre Dame, 108. | i Opponents, 59. | i Yards Gained from Scrimmage: | I Notre Dame, 2307 yards. | I Opponents, 843 yards. i I Forward Passes Completed: i I Notre Dame, 18 of 80 for 391 | I yards. | I Opponents, 29 of 110 for 380 j I yards. | 
Qn nQ 
side-lines on about the iive-yard line and gathering speed as he traveled along, sped through the whole mass of tacklers, getting clear at mid-field and sprinting the remainder of the 95 yards unmolested. After a brief delay in which the entire crowd held its breath, Musick missed the place­kick, which would have tied the score. This was the seventh victory of the season for Notre Dame, and was the third of four played with the far western school, and it marked the second one in the series which ended 13 to 12, also the third with a lone point determining the winner. 
Northwestern furnished the next 
opposition on November 23 and it 
proved to be nothing more than a 
practice session as the 26-6 score 
clearly indicates. Frank Carideo was 
the star of this fray by taking one 
of Bergherm's wild passes on his own 
15-yard line; Bergherm tore across 
the field to interrupt Carideo's run, 
but Frank slipped by him with a 
clever thrust and then blithely con­
tinued on 85 yards to the goal. Other 
"Moon" Mullins, Plunging FuH-Back 
—Drawn for the Nvw Yorker by Johan Bull. 
scores were made by Schwartz and Savoldi, the latter obtaining two. Big Tim Moynihan had to end his illus­trious career in this game when he was forced out with a broken ankle, the only really serious accident suf­fered by any man during the entire season. 
The final and most looked for game, was the Notre Dame-Army contest on November 30 in the Yankee Stadium, attended by thousands of the alumni and loyal rooters. Jack Elder furnished the big bit of excite­ment in this annual struggle by in­tercepting one of Chris Cagle's for­ward passes on his own 3-yard line and running the length of the field for the one and only touchdown of the game. As if they might possibly need the extra point later, Carideo cinched the victoiy by kicking the goal after touchdown. 
Eighty-two thousand five hundred people were in the stands for this all-important contest and they were treated to a battle which they prob­ably had never before witnessed in the history of modern football. As­sistant Coach Tom Lieb, carrying on in place of Knute Eockne who was still abed, was faced with the most difficult task he had been confronted with during the entire season. For a time it looked as if the Army was sure to score a touchdown, for they carried the ball to the Notre Dame 14-yard line, only to have Cagle's pass intercepted by the phantom Ken­tuckian, who romped through for the winning points. 
This game marked the passing of the brilliant stars. Captain Johnny Law, the two Jacks, Elder and Can­non, Tim Moynihan, Joe Nash, Johnny Colrick, and Gus Bondi. It was in­deed a great season for them all, and no doubt there will pass many a day before the Notre Dame teams of the 
IllllllltlllllllllllUIIIII 

EJ" ..g 
INDIVIDUAL POINT 
SCORING 

I  TD  Pt.  Total  
I  Elder  7  0  42  
i  Savoldi  6  0  36  
I  Carideo  2  13  25  
j  MuUins  3  0  18  
I  Schwartz  2  0  12  
I  Conley  1  0  6  
1  Howard  1  0  6  

22 13 145 
Q 

future will come up to this one of 1929 on which the above men had the pleasure and satisfaction of playing. A real national championship team of high caliber, it was thdr satisfaction to defeat nine of the strongest teams in the country. 
COACH TOM LIEB, '23 
Rockn^s Invaluable Aid 
SAVOLDI'S KEED 

I wanta' for to tal' to you, I lika' everyt'ing you do. But I'a lika' best for all. You gav' Savoldi's keed da' ball. 
I nota' know he's olda' man. But papers say he's Italian, I bat he's glad, I ama' too. Maybe he send some fruits ta you. 
Deesa' Swartz is good, dees' Elder too, So's all de' resta "Micka" crew. So—I t'ink you should, for deesa' fall. Just geev* Savoldi's keed de ball. 
(The above verse was written for Mr. Eockne by Leon Woodford, El. '21, Elkhart, Ind.) 
1929-30 Basketball Schedule 
Dec. 2—N. D. -10, Kalamazoo Col. 16 
Dec. 7—N. D. 49. Lake Forest 21 
Dec. 13—^Albion CoIIese at Notre Dame 
Dec. 19—^Northwestern at Notre Dame 
Dec. 23—Iowa at Notre Dame 
Dec 28—Ohio State at Columbus 
Dec. 31—^Northwestern at Evanston 
Jan. 7—Indiana at Bloominpton 
Jan. 11—Slarquette Univ. at Notre Dame 
Jan. IS—Univ. of Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh 
Jan. 22—Jlichigan State at Lansing 
.Tan. 31—^W'abash College at Notre Dame 
Feb. 4—Slarquette Univ. at Milwaukee 
Feb. S—U. of Pittsburgh at Notre Dame 
Feb. 14—Butler Univ. at Indianapolis 
Feb. IS—Michigan State at Notre Dame 
Feb. 22—Wabash College at Crawfordsville 
Feb. 28—Butler University at Notre Dame 
Mar. S—Univ. of Penn. at Philadelphia 
« «• 
The Notre Dame Blue and Gold basketball quintet, coached again by the able Dr. George Keogan, began 
DeatJis 
The ALUMNUS is in receipt of a communication from J. E. Fishbum, Jr., Los Angeles, stating that his father, J. E. FISHBUEN, '75, died on May 8th last. 
JAMES V. O'DONNELL, LL.B. '89, master in chancery of the Supe­rior Court, Chicago, since 1899, died Nov. 21 at his home, 420 Surf St., that city. Mr. O'Donnell was one of the founders of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. 
After completing his course at No­tre Dame he studied at the old Chi­cago College of Law and with his admittance to the bar in 1890 he went into partnership with Marcus Cav­anaugh and John Gibbons, both of whom were elevated to the bench be­fore the turn of the century. 
Mr. O'Donnell was a Republican, a member of the Illinois State and Chi­cago Bar Associations, the Chicago 
A. A. and the Spanish American War Veterans in addition to his Notre Dame afiiliations. He was at one time president of the Irish Fellowship Club. 
His widow, Mrs. Agnes Lynch O'Donnell, a son and two daughters survive him. 
its season very auspiciously by dowTi­ing Kalamazoo College, 40 to 16, De­cember 2, on the home floor. Lake Forest was the next opponent and they were drubbed 49 to 21, the game being played at Notre Dame on De­cember 7. 
In Ed. Smith, all-Western guard selection for two years, and Captain Donovan, Keogan has one of the finest pairs of guards in mid-western basket­ball competition. Along with these men are Jack McCarthy, Busch, Gavin, and a host of others from last year's squad. A number of fresh­man stars of last season have been perfonning wonderfully well and they can be looked upon to do much of the playing this year. 
The schedule, as announced in last month's issue, includes games with Albion and Northwestern just before 
CAPTAIN DONOVAX 

the vacation period and immediately after the students leave for home, the Blue and Gold five will meet Iowa, Ohio State, Northwestern and Indiana. 
• llllllllllltlKllll 
••H 

^THE ALUMNI 
Maii'iages 

Before the clock in the steeple strikes Jan. 1, the ALUMNUS wants to record two more weddings of the last summer. 
EDWARD AHLERING, '25, and Miss Katharine Fleischman of Grand Rapids, Mich., were married in the Log Chapel on June 8 by REV. JOHN 
F. O'HARA, C.S.C., and are living in Hammond, Ind., where Ed is with the Northern Indiana Public Service Co. CLARENCE KAISER, '25, was best man. (Classmate, local, met the bride—if anybody can figure why this was left out, the Editor would like to know. If it were not for the infallibility of the ALUMNUS the Editor would express his regret to Ed and Mrs. Ahlering.) 
At a slightly later but undetermined date during the summer, FRANK KLEIN, '26, and Miss Marie Wuerz, of Belle\nlle, 111., were married at Belleville. At last reports the Kleins were living in Peoria, where Frank was on the staff of the morning 
Transcript. 
Mr. and Mrs. George J. Wagner have announced the marriage of their daughter, Bertha Louise, to ED­MUND A. POLHAUS, '25, Satur­day, Nov. 2, in Detroit. DAN CAEB, '21, was best man.. Ed is about to become the fourth Graham Brother. 
•"•"••" 

Score one for the .A.LUMNUS. This one was held out by the parties involved and not by the proverbial absent-mindedness. TOM HIGGINS, '25, was married to Miss Mildred Fiedler of South Bend, in Chicago on August 3, according to an announce­ment just made by Mrs. Higgins at a luncheon in South Bend. Tom and his ^rife will be at home in Chicago after the first of the year. 
Four of the five famous Miller brothers gathered at Notre Dame on Nov. 15 on their way to the Southern California game. That is the way the lead would read if football were over-emphasized. The truth of the matter is that GERALD MILLER, '25, was married in Sacred Heart Church on that day to Miss Helen Mae Hamilton of Cleveland. WAL­TER MILLER, '20, was best man for his brother. RAY MILLER, '14, prosecuting attorney of Cuyahoga County (Cleveland), with whom Jerry is practicing, and HARRY "Red" MILLER, '10, attorney for the Grasselli Chemical Co., were also present. Rev. W. A. Scullen, LL.D. '27, and Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, '16, officiated. 
T. PRANK MURRAY, '25, and Miss Caroline Fuerbacher, St. Louis, Mo., were married Dec. 7 in St. Mar­garet's Church, St. Louis, by REV. RAYMOND W. MURRAY, C.S.C, '18, brother of the groom. After a 
December, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 121 
honeymoon in Florida, Frank and Mrs. Murray will be at home at 3635 Flora Blvd., St. Louis, where Frank is connected with the Acme Fast Freight Co. 
JOHN FORGE, '28, and Miss Ann Merrifield of South Bend, were mar­ried in the parlor of the Administra­tion Building on the campus Nov. 26, by the Rev. John Margraf, C.S.C. Doc and Mrs. Forge will live in Ma­son City, Iowa, where Doc is con­nected with the Goodyear Tire Com­pany. 
•
I Births
• « 
The second generation of the Uni­versity's outstanding Class ('25 men please stand) took another step for­ward on November 17, when a son was born to Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE LUDWIG, Grand Rapids. So far, the heir seems to have so completely ab­sorbed the attention of the relatives that the only communication from them has been a telegram from Uncle Ike (Gerald, '28) giving everything but the name of the child. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROMAN FELD­P.A.USCH, '26, 1120 S. Church St., Hastings, Mich., announce the birth of an eight pound, three ounce son, Richard Ksyhill, on Nov. 10. 
BOB MURPHY, '26, and Mrs. Murphy are the parents of a daugh­ter, Sheila Ann, born on Nov. 14. Bob writes that while he can't under the circumstances promise Eock any ma­terial "if some of us boys don't raise the other sex, whoinhell is going to do the cheering?" 
Personals 
Before 1880 Mark M. Facte, 501 City Hall, Chicago Illinois. 
A column in the Chicago News playing up the World's Fair of '93 contains the following very interest­ing account concerning HAROLD VINCENT HAYES, B. S. '74, M. A. '95: (The Editor had the pleasure of sitting at the table with Mr. Hayes at the banquet following the Southern California game this year, along with MARK FOOTE, '73.) 
The Columbian E.xposition inspired many a poem by its sublime grandeur and countless descriptions of its beau­ties have been written by the thou­sands who attended. Probably the poet who burst into verse over the fair and felt best repaid is Harold Vincent Hayes of Chicago, who was awarded his master's degree from his alma mater, Notre Dame, because of his poem entitled "Columbus and the Fair." 
Mr. Hayes was graduated from Notre Dame in 1S74 and is a son of Samuel S. Hayes, who was city comp­troller from 1874 to 1876. He was em­ployed as a cashier for the fair for a year and a half before it opened. Shortly after its opening he resigned to become chief accountant for the old Palmer House, then in the heydey of its glory, and for the Potter Palmer estate. 
Mr. Foote was also on the Gould-Maypole special that went to the Ar­my game, on which it was the Edi­tor's pleasure to ride. And the Edi­tor hopes that the ne.\t half century deals as kindly with him as it has with these two fine figures from the 
earlier pages  of  Notre Dame's  
historv.  
1880-1885  

Prof. Robt. M. Anderson, Stevens Inst. of Tech, Hoboken, N. J. 
F. E. KUHN sent a very interest­ing clipping from the Nashville paper to the .A.LUMNUS last month. The chief item was the election of JOE SCHEFFER, a student at N. D. in 1926-7, as the 1930 captain of the Vanderbilt U. football team. CH.A.RLES, a brother, was enrolled at the same time. 
Oliver Kuhn, a son of Mr. Kuhn and a student and football player at 
N. D. for a short time during the war when Gipp was starring, later entered Vanderbilt and five years ago was quarterback and captain of the eleven. (The Vanderbilt campus is only a block from the Kuhn home.) He was also captain of the basket­ball team, president of the student body, president of Psi Kappa Psi and president of Hellenic all at one time. The Atlanta Journal at the time stated "Doc Kuhn is captain and president of everything at Vander­bilt but the co-eds." 
1900 Francis O'Shaughnessy, 10 S. La Salle Stq Chicago, Illinois. 
FRANK B. "RUNT" CORNELL wrote recently from 320 E. 20th St., New York City to Judge John W. Eg­geman, a classmate, asking to be re­membered to all his friends. Mr. Cornell was a member of the basket­ball team while at N. D. It was the first time the Judge had heard from him since graduation. 
1904 Robert Proctor, Monger BUg^ £IUimrt, Ind. 

BYRON V. KANALEY was among the guests at the speaker's table at the St. Joseph Valley banquet for the football team. Mr. Kanaley was there in his capacity as a member of the Board of Trustees, which was in­vitetl to attend by the directors of the Club. 
1909 
E. P. Cleary, P. O. Box 356, Momence, Dlinois. 

THOM-\S R. WOULFE wrote re­cently from San Antonio, Texas, where he is president of the Commer­cial Real Estate Co., Milam Bldg. 
1910 Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 527 Beall Ave., Wooster, Ohio. 
The Editor sat between the Class Secretary and BOB PROCTOR, '04, at the recent St. Joe Valley football banquet, so you can imagine the at­mosphere. 
SAMUEL M. "ROSY" D0L.4N, who won four football monograms from 1906 to 1910, when that could be done, was a welcome though hur­ried visitor on the campus Novem­ber 20. He was on his way from Cor­vallis Ore., to referee the O. A. C.­Detroit U. game, and was rushing on to get in a visit with RED MILLER, his roommate at N. D., before the game. 
1911 Fred L. Steers, 1666 First Natl. Bank Bldg., Chicago, Dlinaig. 
Not much word from REV. WIL­LIAM A. CAREY, C.S.C., who wrote last under enough titles to set him back ten years in his new work at Columbia U., Portland. His most pressing care at the time was his responsibility as chairman of the board of athletic control, but he wrote that Columbia was safe from the cur­rent taint of professionalism. 
1914 Frank H. Hayes, Union Bank of Chicago^ Chicagoy m. 
DAN SHOUVLIN, who was pres­ent at the Southern Calfomia game, recently visited wth DAN SKELLY of Oil City, Pa., who is now prosecu­tor for Venango County. He and Dan had a great time. Skelly re­cently acquired a wife. 
Shouvlin further reports that "DEAK" JONES is now at Ohio State University being instructor in artil­lery. Mr. and Mrs. Jones are the proud parents of a youngster bom around Labor Day. 
1915 
James E. Sanford, 8212 Kenwood 
Ave, Chicago, III. 
MAURICE T. ANDREWS is with the Worcester (Mass.) Telegram, and from the clippings of Notre Dame sport news taken from that paper this Fall N. D. is among the leaders there. In fact Maurice says that Holy Cross (the home team) is tKe only rival for space, and that during the N. D. games with Carnegie, U. 
S. C. and Army, the office received ten calls for scores to one call for any other game. 
1920 
Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black BIdg, Los Angeles, Calif. 
P. V. HENEHAN, JR., writes from Emporia, Kansas, that he hopes to get back next year for homecom­ing for the first time in eight years. 
1922 
Gerald Aghe, 1024 Monroe Ave., 
Rochester, N. Y. 
The largest gathering of '22 men since Commencement at Notre Dame last June took place at the Southern California game in Chicago. It is im­possible to compile a complete list of those in attendance, but we did see the following men or heard of their presence: 
EDDIE ANDERSON, RODGE KILEY, CLETE LYNCH, BEN SUSEN, EMMETT BURKE, JIM MURTAUGH, JIM SHAW, STEVE CARMODY, HAROLD McKEE, SPENCER McCABE, VINCE PAT­ER, JERRY DIXON, WILF DWY­ER, PAT MANION, RAY KEARNS, JOE FARLEY, TONY SCHIA­VONE, LEO McGARTY, EARL WALSH, ED GOTTRY, MIDNIGHT MURPHY, and FRITZ BAUJEER. 
The roster of the bachelors' club of '22 is beginning to look as unim­pressive as a list of present-day schooner captains with the recent de­parture of AL SCOTT, R.AY KEARNS, and SPENCER McCABE to assume the responsibilities of mar­ried life. 
HARRY MEHRE'S University of Georgia football team has had a very successful season, counting among its most prized successes a victoiy over Yale. 
JOHN HUETHER is in the em­ploy of the General Electric Co., Schenectady, and JOHN MEEHAN is on the City Engineer's staff in the same city. 
JACK HIGGINS is associated with AL SLAGGEET in the practice of law in Detroit. 
Directly after the Southern Cali­fornia game, the class secretary was summoned to court on charges of in­competency, neglect of duty, and malfeasance in office, charges being preferred against him by Messrs. LYNCH and DIXON. The case was tried before Judge RAY KEARNS of Terre Haute, with STEVE CAR­MODY in the role of prosecutor and JHDNIGHT MURPHY as attorney for the defense. After two hours or more of bombastic oratory and rag­ging of witnesses, prosecutor Car­mody learned that the court was un­fair and moved for a change of venue. This was granted and the case will be reopened next fall at South Bend. 
1923 Paul Castner, 805 N. Lafayette Blvd, South Bend, Ind. 
ANDRES JLALATESTA was in the States recently in connection with some patent developments, but his father, accompanying him on the trip, became sick and they returned to Peru befoi-e Andres had an oppoi'­tunity to come to Notre Dame. His address is Hacienda San Jose, lea, Peru. 
JOHN COCHRANE has been ad­mitted to partnership in what is now the law fii-m of Johnson, Johnson, Farber & Cochrane, with offices in the Spitzer Bldg., Toledo. 
E. MERLIN ROLWING is putting Notre Dame in large red ink on the map of the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. Merlin is at Indianapolis, along with a number of other N. D. men who are doing exceptionally well with the company. Among them are CHARLEY MASON, '26, JOE QUINLAN, '26, and BERNIE LOEFFLER, '28. Merlin has kept 
N. D. prominent in the company's house organ. 
FRANK WALLACE, whose name, under the slightly more literary form of Francis Wallace, has been dotting the leading magazines of the nation this Fall with short stories and arti­cles, in which Notre Dame figures prominently and profitably, was a welcome ^isitor on the campus for several weeks this Fall, gathering material for a novel. Frank put on campus clothes and very few of the present generation recognized him as the author of what probably 99% of them were reading. 
1924 
James F. Hayes, 358 Fifth Ave, 
New York City. 
The Editor had the pleasure of meeting the Class Secretarj' at New York, but briefly, and truth compels the statement that he wasn't ab­sorbed in securing class notes. 
CHARLIE DONAHUE was also on deck in New York but also on the hello-and-run basis of the Editor's week-end. 
A letter from RAY BRADY brings the good news that Ray is off this winter for a trip to Panama and South America and expects to come through N. D. in February. 
THOMAS F. C.A.RFAGNO wrote recently from Baltimore, 324 N. Front St. He was at the N. D. Navy game. 
1925 
John W. Scallan, Pullman Co., 79 W. 
Adams St, Chicago, 111. 
A meeting of all members of the Class who can attend will be held in January to discuss plans for the June Reunion. The meeting will be at Notre Dame the latter part of the month. A Class Letter will bring you definite details, but plan now to attend. 
JOE FITZPATRICK came to Chi­cago from Miami, Fla., for the So. Cal. game and stopped at Notre Dame on the way back, but missed the Edi­tor both places. Joe said the game was worth the trip. 
One of SC.ALL.AN'S unwilling workers was finally prevailed upon to submit the following facts on promise of immunity from publicity. 
"Here are a few of the boys I talked to in Chicago at the So. Cal. game. JIM MCQUERN and his wife were over from Toledo and the bread­winner and I gave the housewife the lowdown on Badin Hall "away back when." I gave TOMMY O'CONNOR and BOB RINK the high sign as they were going to the dance. JULIUS ROUX and GUS SCOLARO re­sembled a couple of bloated bond holders. P.AUL DOOLEY, perspir­ing in ye old coonskin, RUSS ARNDT, FR.ANK STEELE and I formed a round table for a few min­utes, though we did it standing. PETE GL.A.DEN and yours truly talked rather deeply of medicine, he trying to sell me on an appendicitis opera­tion, and I to sell him some insur­ance in view of his dangerous under­taking. FAB BURKE is now an M. 
D. but due to the fact that we were roommates for three years I was able to keep him from talking shop. JOE TOOLEN was supposed to be on hand but perhaps he figured he would not be able to stand a repetition of the Wisconsin game. MILT LE.ACH was around, but though I hunted all over for him, we missed connections. I would liked to have seen JERRY MILLER who was recently married, but that pleasure was also denied 

December, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
me." (Those of you who have figured 
the above as dope from BILL HUR­
LEY will do him a big favor by not 
mentioning it. The "Saginaw Kid" is 
writing insurance, and is never sure 
as to whom he may pounce on next, 
so works a good-will-to-men basis out 
of keeping with reporting for this 
column. Ed.) 
A short note from PAUL RAHE, 
who seems to be with the land depart­
ment of the Gypsy Oil Co., Tiilsa, 
Okla No dope, no dirt, not even much 
of the old oil. 
Among other dope in a letter fi-om 
JOHN NOPPENBERGER, "NOPPY" 
said that his Spalding Institute foot­
ball team had defeated Peoria Central, 
an old ri\-al, for the first time in 24 
years, so that shows how Noppy is 
sitting in Peoria, with Spalding at 
least. 
A letter from DAN CARR, '21, elaborates on ED POLHAUS' wed­ding, which appears in the regular column. Dan says that he entertained the bride and groom at Seton Hill Col­lege, Greensburg, Pa., where he is teaching. Ed and Mrs. Polhaus are touring the East. GEORGE KOCH, DUKE CLANCY and -AL MAHONEY were at the wedding and reception. Ed and Mrs. Polhaus will live at 7830 Pinehurst, Fordson, Mich. 
GEORGE SHEEHE and GIL SCHAEFFER, the two big Hudson­Esse.x distributors from Detroit, left that company to its devices long enough to make the So. Cal. game. Both promised to be at the Reunion in June, though they didn't promise to furnish Hudson cars as favors, but added that they'd try to get a lOO'/r attendance from Detroit, in fact, would. 
CHARLIE SMITH was among those at the So. Cal. game. Charlie is now in Waukegan, looks fine, and will be on hand for the Reunion. 
GEORGE DRISCOLL wote re­cently that BILL SEIDENSTICKER is designing sewage disposal systems for the City of Columbzus (0.) He adds also that JERRY HERLIHY' is in the contracting business in Chica­go, and also that Jerry's report of no rice having been purchased at George's wedding was misleading, that rice was purchased, but none was thrown. 
1926 Gerald W. Hayes, 3117 Washington St., Chicago, 111. 
The Office has received a letter from BOB SERVATIUS who com­pleted the Fine Ai-ts course in '26. Bob is at 247 Genesee St., Utica, N. Y. 
A fine letter from JOHN MCMUL­LAN accompanied a check for dues. John has been among the most en­thusiastic followers of the great N. D. team of this year "not only because they play good ball, but also on ac­count of the fine spirit, unison and harmony which prevails, a credit to 
N. D." 
JERRY MORSCHES writes a long and interesting letter from Rochester, 
N. Y., where he is with the Genesee Paper Company. Coming from other sources, the ALUJINUS leai-ns that Jerry is engaged to Miss Evelyn Pritchard of Rochester (Nazareth College '28). No date has been set for the wedding when the dope came in. 
Paul Jackson, LL. B. '26, has moved his law office to the new Odd Fellows Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
1927 Edmund De Clercq, 8200 S. Ellis Ave., Chicago, 111., Secretary. 
LOUIS CONROY, all-Western bas­ketball star at N. D. has begun his duties as coach of basketball at Detroit U., under the athletic direc­torship of C. E. "GUS" DORAIS, '14. 
1928 Louis Buckley, Notre Dame, Ind, Secretary. 
Fifty members of the Class of '28 responded in person and seventy-five by letter to the call of the class sec­retary to the first '28 reunion held at the Auditorium Hotel in Chicago, November fifteenth. After having sung the Victory March and having given a few Notre Dame yells led by BOB KIRBY', our appetites were about as keen as they used to be in the "good old days," only we had fish this time instead of "albatross." We had as our guest JIM ARMSTRONG and we took this opportunity of con­gratulating him on the new ALUM­NUS. We promised him that the dues quota for the class would be raised, so everyone who has been negligent please get busy and send in your five bucks or more. Next we read the list of the members who had married. We had a record of twenty and since then, as you will notice in the marriage column, DOC FORGE and NEIL AMIOT have been added to the list. Two of the married mem­bers were present to show us that all the married men were not "hen­pecked" husbands. FRANK DONO­VAN came from South Bend to prove this. JERRY' RAYBURN gave us 
his impressions of married life. Members from outside Chicago at­tending the reunion included: HOW­ARD PHALIN who is now located in 
Davenport, Iowa. BOB laRBY and JOHN DAVIS came in from Indian­apolis. LAWRENCE WINGERTER from Des Moines, Iowa. ED TEHAN reported the Springfield, Ohio, fel­lows to be K. 0. GEORGE J. MC­LINEY came all the way from Kan­sas City to be with us. BILL lOR-WAN was in from Merrill, Wiscon­sin. PAUL BRUST even left Milwau­kee to be on hand. VINCE CARNEY' of Rochelle, 111. and BOB KNOX of Crystal Lake, 111. were reported as present. BOB MOHLMAN was the only out of town lawyer present so evidently business is pretty good in Lafayette, Ind. BILL JONES, -A.N­DY BOYLE, DICK WEPPNER, DICK GREEN, JIM ALLEN, JOE KANE and BILL KONOP were in from Notre Dame for the occasion. The '28 men now living in Chicago who were present w^ere: ED. MC-IvEOWN, LEO FETTIG, HENRY DAVIS, JIM GREY", ED. RAFTER, GEORGE COURY, BILL DWYER, RONALD RICH, HAYES MURPHY', BILL DALY', PAUL TOBIN, JOHN CAVANAUGH, JERRY RAYBURN, ANDY POWERS, BILL MURPHY", JACK DOY'LE, JACK CANIZARO, BOB CAPESIUS, VINCE DUCEY' and ED. MCGUIRE. Letters were read from the absent members and short talks were given by most of the members present. Everyone agreed that we should have such re­unions each year and all promised to be on hand in June. -A telegram was read from JOHN FREDERICK who was unable to attend because his freshman team was to play next day in Detroit. John reminds us to look for\vard to 1933. JERRY BIGGE, BILL O'HARA, DENNY' DALY', and CONNIE OCHO.A all wired their re­
grets. The letters received will be mentioned in the next issue of the ALUMNUS. 
PETE MERLONI wrote from Fi-amingham, Mass., where he was home for the first time since gradua­tion, having arrived after a year spent in Camp Rockne, St Anne's in Chicago, and Little Rock, Ark. 
BOB EVANS sent in a welcome check and a word of greeting from Vicksburg, Miss. 
BOB FOGERTY, now a member of the faculty of Saint Thomas' College, Saint Paul, Minn., writes that he will be on hand for the Indianapolis Club Dance on the Severin roof December 
30. Bob writes,—but here, let Bob speak for himself: 
". . . . Has JIM McSHANE writ­ten the "Song of the Wranglers"? ... . JACK WOEDEN, fi-om South 
•llllllllllllltltlltl • ••MIMItllltlllltlllMllllMlltMnil EJ 
B" 
Local Alumni Club Meetings 
Send Notice of Meetings of Clubs Not Listed to Alumni Secretary, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
1 CLEVELAND: Mondays—year round luncheon meetings—^the Allerton | i —seventy-five cents. | 
I NEW YORK CITY: Thursdays—luncheon meetings—Fraternity Club, I 
I 22 East 38th Street. I 
I CHICAGO: Fridays, 12:00—^luncheon meetings—Ivory Room, Mandel's. I 
I DETROIT: Thursdays—luncheon meetings—12:30—Frontenac Inn, 42 | 
I Monroe Avenue. | 
I PITTSBURGH: Thursdays—luncheon—Hotel Henry. \ 
I LOS ANGELES: Wednesdays—luncheon—12:l5—University Club. | 
I CINCINNATI: First and third Tuesdays of each month—12:15 noon— I i Broadway Hotel. | I NEW JERSEY: Monthly meeting—7:30 p. m.—First Monday—New-| I ark Athletic Club. | I INTER-MOUNTAIN: Monthly luncheon—First Tuesday—University 1 I Club, Salt Lake City, Utah. | 
I KENTUCKY: Generally the second Tuesday of each month—different | I locations. Call Edward Pfeiifer, 407 Martin Brown Arcade, | I Louisville. i 
I WABASH VALLEY: Four times yearly—January, April, October, | I December—Fowler Hotel, Lafayette, Indiana. Call H. R. Kamp, = i 1207 Wells Street. | 
I ST. JOSEPH VALLEY: Monthly luncheon meeting—Last Monday. | 
I Call Paul Castner, Studebaker Corporation, South Bend. | 
I DES MOINES: Jlonthly meeting—no regular date. Call Carleton Beh. f 
I JOLIET: Monthly meeting—First Tuesday. Call Edward King, 301 [ i Ruby Street, for details. i I NORTHERN CALIFORNIA: Monthly luncheon—first Tuesday—Clift | 
i Hotel, San Francisco. | 
I FORT WAYNE: Alonthly dinner—no definite date. Call John W. | I Eggeman, president, or Thomas McKieman, secretary. | 
I ROCHESTER: First and third Wednesdays—12:15—Chamber of Com-| I merce Private Dining Room. i 
I SYRACUSE: Monthly luncheon—second Wednesday, 12:15—Schraft's. | 
g

SlUlltlllllMlllllltll •llllltllllllllllllltllllllllil iiiiittiittiiitiiiitiiiiiiiniiM 
 Bend, '28, is my roomie this year. Remember him? He's just finished a year of medicine at Northwestern, a summer school at Wisconsin, and is at Minnesota now,—along with work­ing here at Saint Thomas' with Doc­tor Giesen in the Biology Depart­ment." 
JAMES W. BOEHNING is now with the accountancy division of the Shell Petroleum Company, doing his bit to see that Sir Henry Dieterich's orange and red atrocities spread over the Indiana territory. FRANK P. MCCARTH Y going great-guns with a nationally known firm of account­ants is in Indianapolis long enough these days to cause the local swains to vow that vengeance shall be theirs. 
1929 Joseph P. McNamara, 231 Wisconsin St., Indianapolis, Ind., Secretary. 
The ex-Sorin mail grabbers will re­joice at the news that WALTER GREER has become one of New York' s "local-boys-that-made-good­crowd." Walt writes from Apartment 1 F, 540 West 122nd Street, to give us the news that FRANKLYN E. DOAN, MURRAY YOUNG and JOHN HINKE L are attending Co­lumbia University and making the big city a brighter place to live in. Walt seems to be bearing up well under the New York bill of fare which answers the questions of a lot of the old gang. Walt wants to hear from BILL JOHNSON, TOM JORDEN, BOB SCHULTZE and other members of the old Subway crowd. (The list is too long to reprint.) 
John Gilbert has experienced that sickening feeling of being thrown over by the co-eds, academy girls, and stenographers due to the fact that College Humor recently printed the picture of our own JOHN VINCENT HINKEL in a prominent place in its Collegiate Hall of Fame. . . . Nope, its no use of your trying to buy a copy; they've all been sold out for some time ... . but you might ask the boss' steno, she'll know! 
Nominees for the month's Croix de Guerre: MICICEY MCMAHON and PAUL D. HOLAHAN. Believe it or not (the sec. pro tem could hardly do it) these two gentlemen wrote in to the column without coercion. Mickey penned his newsy letter (he refuses to allow a reprint) from 1865 W. Sixty-Fifth Street, Cleveland asking for Paul's address. Paul Eversharped from the same city asking for Mick­ey's address.—Mayhap Cleveland is a city after all! 
 According to McMahon, FRANK 

THB NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
. . . Lined across the road in a narrow defile near Laffray, stood a nervous detachment of Bourbon troops. Nervous, because they knew that coming nearer every moment down the winding road from Digne walked a small dark man who had once been master of Europe, more recently exile-Emperor of Elba. For this man they had seen their comrades die at Austerlitz and Zena. For him they had bled and suffered. And for him they had again gone into battle, not once, but many times. But now their officers spoke of him as "the enemy" and he came suddenly with a handful of veterans to reconquer his lost France. Their duty: to head him off before he reached the discontented city of Grenoble. Their orders: to shoot him the moment he should appear. Their obedience: doubtful, for the first time. Mus­kets charged, faces inscrutable, they waited. 
Behind them, their officers were discussing a re­treat, when the Little Corporal came in view, paun­chier than before but dressed as every soldier in France had known him, in the old gray surtout, cocked hat, tri-color cockade. The soldiers paled, hesitated. Napoleon paused, ordered his followers to lower their guns. 
"There he is! Fire!", cried a Royalist captain. In tense silence the click of muskets being cocked startled even grizzled veterans of Austerlitz. Na­poleon advanced within pistol shot, walking slowly, alone. Throwing open his coat, he displayed the fa­miliar uniform. In a strong, calm voice he called: "Soldiers of the Fifth, recognize me! If there be one soldier among you who- would shoot his Emperor, let him do it. I am here . . ." 
Bewildered Royalist officers saw their ranks melt into a mob of sobbing, cheering men. throwing them­selves at the Emperor's feet .. . 
Within a few hours towns-folk, peasants and sol­diers were hilariously battering down the locked gates of Grenoble so their Emperor might enter. Later, a delegation brought him pieces of splintered wood and bronze. "Since we have no key to the city we have brought Your Majesty the gate itself . . ." 
.. . So in part, had TIM E been published in March, 1815, would it have chronicled Na­poleon's first bloodless victory of the Hundred Days, three months before Waterloo. So, too, would TIME have told how Napoleon left Grenoble thirty-six hours later with seven thousand men; how Louis XVIII despatched regiment after regiment to stop him and bow, almost to a man, the armies sent to stop the "Usurper" joined Napoleon's army in its march towards Paris; how, less than ten days later, a placard was found on the Vendome column in Paris: "Napoleon to Louis XVIII. My good brother, it is useless to send me any more troops. I have enough." 
Cultivated Americans, impatient with cheap sensationalism and windy bias, turn increasingly to publications edited in the historical spirit. These pubUca> tions, fair-dealing, vigorously impartial, devote themselves to the public weal in the sense that they report what they see, serve no masters, fear no fjNnipa. 
TIME 
The Weekly Nev/smagcaine 
~John Hancock Seria-
BUILDING an ESTATE 
What Can Be Done With Life Insurance 
T
O plan 2ind build an estate of substantial size is a serious and 
often a life-long problem. Is the estate you -ivill leave sufficient to do for your family all you would like to have done? If not, do you know how you can increase it immediately? How you can make sure of leaving adequate financial means for them? 
Through Life Insurance, with a comparatively small annual premium, you can build an estate of substan­tial size cmd effectiveness,— the proceeds payable at whatever time and in what­ever manner you designate. 
If interested, cut this out, write your name and address across it, mail to Inquiry Bureau, 197 Clarendon Street, Boston, Mass., and receive our booklet, "This Matter of Success." 
BELTING is making Swift and Com­pany all of that in Northern Ohio and in addition took the awful step with Miss Mary McCaffery of Cleveland on Thanksgiving Day. Mickey has sighted the following: RED LAW­LESS, TOM KIENER, OTIE WIN­CHESTER, DOC BRADY and CHET SNYDER. All are far more success­ful than Sorin Hall dopesters "allowed 
they would be." WINCHESTER has 
put the sure in life insurance while 
SNYDER is a big grain man in Du­
luth. Is BUD CLARK, or PHIL 
TOMPKINS, FRANK DOAN or 
DAVE SAXON in the crowd? Mick­
ey McMahon wants to hear from all 
of them. 
Aside from a request to hear from 
BILL BOLES who is hitting 'em up in 
Indianapolis, PAUL HOL.AHAN'S 
letter can go into the records without 
censorship: 
"Saw BUD CLARK in Toledo . . . 
Rather appropriately he is working 
for the Gas Company there. PHIL 
TOMPKINS passed the Ohio Phar­
macy e.\am and is now mixing drinks 
in Toledo . . . TOM KIENER is 
Cleveland's busiest person—ask Tom! 
. . . BARNEY HUGGER is reputed to 

be Cincinnati's high flyer but we have 
a feling that he's falling (nope, we 
don't know her name). Anyway Bar­

ney is keeping the Air Mail in good 
shape which isn't such an awful job 

as he has BOB MANNIX at the Uni­
versity of Cincinnati to consult on all 
legal matters . . . 
Word comes from Delphos indicat­

ing that LOUIE KUNDERT is busy 
making foreign nations Graham 
Truck-minded. . ." In signing off 
from 1401 Roycroft Avenue, Lake­
wood, Ohio, Holahan requests that we 
page RUS TRELEVEN. So ordered 
Mr. Chairman! 
Is MATT CULLEN deputy state's attorney in Cook County? Every­one is asking the question. Anj'way MATT, TOM GRIFFIN, BILL JOHN­SON, BILL GRIFFIN, and BILL COYNE were among the few who were brilliant enough to pass the Il­linois Bar Examination last summer . . . BILL. COYNE is back on the Notre Dame campus where anyone who is persistent enough can see ED­DIE COLLINS and RED COLLINS on the way to class . . . LOUIE OB­LIGATO slips out to school every so often in an attempt to dictate the Dic­taphone idea to the powers-that-are in the Administration Building. South Bend's political campaign brought TOM HAPPER over from Elkhart where he and Senator BOB PROC­TOR are the political men of the hour. 
BILL JOHNSON gets around to the campus on his trips to Mishawaka. Bill is working twelve hours a day as a chemical engineer for The United States Steel Corporation in Hammond. Un-hnh, just the same as ever. CHAS. MCDERMOTT and CLYDE ATCHINSON are also chem engineers that have landed in Hammond . . . 
about all the Calumet district can 
cope with! But cheer up, BOB 
SCHULZE, writing from 337 La 
Porte Avenue, Whiting, reports that 
he has BILL, CHARLIE, CLYDE and 
the gang "well under control." 
MARC WONDERLIN passed the 
Iowa Bar Exam right off the bat and 
is now leading the Iowa juries in 
some close harmony. Rumor places 
CHARLIE HASKELL in the law 
practice in Denver but we won't 
swear to it . . . The scribe moved the 
admission of MIKE KOHREY, 
"YACH" GILBERT and JOE HEM­
PHLING, to the practice before the 
Supreme Court of the State of In­
diana. MIKE, "YACH" and JOE be­
came bosom friends of the Justices 
of the Court before tearing back to 
South Bend where Joe had a social 
engagement . . . Has anyone seen or 
heard of JERRY ROACH? 
WALTER "BUD" MCMORROW writing beneath the Johns-Mansville Corporation's letter-head speaks of certain electrical equipment in Jerry Roach's room, the Freshman Tea Dance, "Dot" McKenna, The Juggler, Sister Claudia and a number of other things but fails to relate where he was all of the time that Jim Armstrong and the conductor of the more-or-less­column were conducting a nation­wide search for him. Bud is now in charge of the Promotion Department of the aforementioned corporation and rides over New York State, Vermont, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, and Massachusetts in a Ford Sedan. We will now have a few words from Bud: 

"—Met JOE GERAGHTY in Roch­ester, where he is living witli his sister and working for Palmer and Ivitchener, stock brokers, 100 Powers Building. Too, Joe is still single, but from some reason I doubt if it will be long now. Tell the boys that if they ever land in Rochester (Lord forbid!) they should call Joe and get fixed up . . . Also met a fellow of the class named STEIN whose home is in Buffalo. His father owns a brewerj­which should prove interesting to some of the other feHows. Yep his address is 13 Cataract Street, Roch­ester, N. Y. Telephone: Main 6—But who wants to telephone to such a guy? . . . The Grand Central Ter­minal in New York City led me to WALT LAYNE . . . still selling print­ing materials and living on Riverside 
Drive with JIM CONMEY . . ." " Those desiring further information from Bud can reach him by sending their bills to 716 State Tower Build­ing, Syracuse, New York. 
I The Notre Dame Alumnus Business and Professional Directory 
•tlillllllltiiil iiiiiiiiiiitiiiitiintiiiiMiiittiiiiiii iiDiiiiiiitiiiiftiiiiiniiiimiiniMiiii^ 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS DAYTON, OHIO 
I Unclaimed Mail 
•••••iiiittiiitn 

f Established 1911 \ (From time to time, lists like this 
JOSEPH B. MURPHY, '11 

I will appear. You will confer a favor 
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW 

^ COOPER-KANALEY and CO. 
I on these men and the Association by 
309-15 Mutual Home Bldg. 

FIRST MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS I sending in their present address. The 
Dayton, Ohio 

120 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. i Association has not the facilities for 
Murphy & Murphy

Tel. FranWin 0353. i tracing lost members.) 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
I Foley, Daniel F.—'23 
SOUTH BEND, IND. i Frawley, Henry J.—'14 Rate 
1 Fuite, Richard J.—'25 
= Gagliardi, Frank M.—'28 for the Next Six Issues 
i Gallagher, John J.—'96 
POLAR ICE & FUEL i Gallagher, Rev. Philip—'16 $15.00 
i Gibbons, Hugh T.—'22 
DIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIKIIII 
COMPANY = Gilbert, Edw. D.—'02 
= Gilsinger, Carl F.—'23 John (Ike) Voedisch, '27 = Gilbough, Frederick JI.—'13 
Don't Under-estimate 

I Goebel, William J.—'28 
Ass't Manager i Goodenow, Robert C—'27 the Scope of the 
1 Codes, Harry F.—'19 I Goldstone, David—'23 ALUMNUS. 
I Gomez, Rafael N.—'27 i Gorman, Anthony J.—'23 
•tiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiii 

COLUMBUS, OHIO 
I Gorski, JIarcellus C—'02 : Grazol, John Jr.—'14 
Many Commissions 

i Gray, Wilbur T.—'14 
Law Offices I Gretchen, Edward J.—'23 have been lost to N. D. 
\ Guerra, Benjamin—'14 
Men through lack of this 
HAMILTON & KRAMER : Gueri-a, Enrique L.—'02 
I Guetierrez, Rafael D.—'16 veiy Imowledge. 701-3 HUNTINGTON BANK BLDG. : Guizar, Manuel J.—'13 I Hagerty, Prof. Clarence A.—'90 • tllllMlltlllllllltlllllllllllttllllDllllllllllltMlllttlllllHNIIlll' COLUJiBUS, OHI O i Hagan, Gerald J.—'23 \ Hahn, Linsung—'26 DONALD JI. HAMILTON, '12 i Halme, George N.—'17 THIS PAGE : Hall, Forrest J.—'21 
and several like it should 
I Hanley, Robert E.—'03 
i Hanlon, James F.—'18 be filled Next Month. 
YOUE N. D. FRIENDS I Hanzel, Francis J.—'06 
i Hardy, Russell C—'16_ 
lllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllltlllllllllltlllltHlllttllllllllll­
Want to Do Business : Harmon, Joseph P.—'25 
i Hav, Eduardo F.—'01 
DON'T WAIT 

With You. I Hayes, John P.—'14 I 
i Hauber, Eugene A.—'25 to see who else is in. 
I 
i Healy, Mark R.—'22 
! Hearn, Robert J.—'20 That's what is 
i Helman, Vernon R.—'17 
Wrong Now!

This is One of Your First i Heer, Alphonsus A.—'93 I Hellert, Louis H.—'18 iiiiiiiiiai)iiiiittiiti)iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
Opportunities to Profit = Hengen, Wm. C—'97 1 Henry, Maurice A.—'27 
as Alumni. IF YOU 
i Herrman, Harlan L.—'25 I Hervey, John F.—'95 
CAN USE BUSINESS 
i Hicok, John S.—'27 i Holden, J. E.—'08-'21 
THE NEW ALUMNUS Take one of these Cards. 
: Holloway, Charles C—'20 
i Hoover, Edw. M.—'91 
is a Better but Costlier 
Illllltl IIIIMIIIIIIIIIII IIIIMIIIMIIIIII IIIIMIIIII* 
! Hosking, James W.—'19 
Magazine. i Huerkamp, Dr. Joseph M.—'12 
\ Hull, (M. D.) Edward E.—'69 Rate is payable by month, I Hurley, Robert F.—'25 
i Hutchins, Hon. Harry B.—'17 in advance, or in June. 
Send Copy for : Jackson, Anthony M.—'23 i Jalondoni, Daniel L.—'10 
IIIIDIIIIIIt Illllll 
the Next Six Issues to 
5 Jau, James G.—'27 i Johnson, Charles H.—'08 
J. E, ARMSTRONG SEND YOUR COPY., 
Box 81, Notre Dame, Ind. 1 [To be continued.) 
|a!ai<aa!^r«iS&a!SWacjaa!a^^ 
LARRY FITZGERALD, "Cameo" 
Kirby of our unregenerate under­
graduate days is now the Managing 
Editor of the Kent News Sen-ice at 
53 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago. 
Expert advices are to the effect that 
Larry has put that well-known news 
gathering agency on its feet since he 
checked out of HuUie and Mikes. In 
fact, he has been such a success that 
he recently took over all of the stock 
of the company and is now President, 
and Chairman of the Board of Direc­
tors in addition to running the 
agency. 
BOB laRBY is now the defender 
of the "younger generation" in the 
simulated-Sorin Hall-ai-guments held 
at the luncheons of the Notre Dame 
Club of Indianapolis. Bob studies 
law at night and helps his father in 
the undertaking undertakings during 
the day . . . JOHN HARRINGTON 
slipped out of Indianapolis last Sep­
tember and is now working on that 
masters degree at the School of 
Finance, Northwestern University. 
How about dropping us a line on the 
other twenty-niners at Northwestern 
John? Attaboy! Incidentally, North­
western is only two hours from South 
Bend—and St. Mary's. 
RED GUILTNON couldn't assist the South Bend social whirl. Result: the discovery that Red is wth Frazier-Jelke Bonding House in Chi­cago and favoring De Paul University ^vith his presence. He reports that TOM LAWLESS is doing big things back in Freeport, Illinois. 
BOB VOGELWEDE and LOUIE VITALE are in the Northern Indiana Public Service Co., offices in Ham­mond, and along with three other N. 
D. alumni, give the place a real N. D. atmosphere. 
MURRAY YOUNG, '29, one of the outstanding poets of the campus in recent years, appeared recently in the Hall of Fame being conducted by 
College Humor. 
FRANK ZAPPONE dropped a line in from Lewiston, Mont., with the good word that he may be back at N. 
D. next semester for law. The law firm of the Class Secretary has followed that merger-conscious­ness of the modern era and is now^ practicing at 1048-1050 Consolidated BIdg. Indianapolis, under the name of Gates, Walsh and Hoffman, with Joe well established on the stationery. RED LAUGHRAN, BART MC­HUGH, BUD MARICEY and Mayor 
Walker attended the Notre Dame-Amiy game in New York. After the game it looked like a reunion of the News Stand Alumni—and it was just that! Incidentally the Class of '29 maintains headquarters at Washing­ton, D. C, at Bud's address: 1420 Twenty-First St., N. W. There you may find BOB NEWBOLD, DICK NOVAK, and Frank CONNELLY if you get around early enough in the 
A. M., hours. The whole crowd stays there and attends the Law^ School of George Washington University,—^with the same briefs. 
BOB SCHULZE, BOB VOGLE­WEDE who forsook the advantages of Decatur (Ind—^trains stop on sig­nals) for Hammond and InsuU's Northern Indiana Service accountancy department, TOM JORDEN, man­about-Chicago, Pittsburgh and Wheel­ing, and your humble secretary re­paired from Lafayette, Ind., for the wedding of FRAN CROWE, SCHULZE was best man and accord­ing to a confidential report given this column TOM JORDEN has changed completely—may be the "next one" says Bob. Oh Tom, how could you? 
IRVIN CORCORAN is breaking more hearts and writing better songs as the months roll by. His latest are great "Bye and Bye," "If You Will 
Only Tell Me That You Love Me," 
and "Sorin Victory March" are help­
ing "The Kick-Off" go over in Chi­
cago these days. 
BILL O'CONNOR is working for 
his father in Indianapolis Ee—nough 
said! 

Staid La Porte is being protected by AL SMITH who is with Osborn and Osborn. Another of the Class of '29 has joined the Benedicts. It's Mr. and Mrs. AL FRANZ these days. Miss Dorothy Szary of South Bend is the lucky girl. The writer has had occa~ sion to note that HENRY HASLEY is the real social Lion in Fort Wayne where Henry is aiding Mr. Breen un­tangle the law's technicalities. How about dropping us a line, Henry? If you do that mayhap we can get BILL KREIG to unsheath his trusty foun­tain pen to tell us all about the Notre Dame contingent at Harvard. 
There's a sock from Santa! 

And now, the class secretary wishes to take this opportunity to wish each member of the Class of 1929 the most splendid Christmas they ever had and a New Year that will be filled with success and happiness from January first until December thirty-first! 
I iiiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiii 
-a 

Peru Foundry Company 
Peru, Indiana 
Manufacturers of 
Tumbling Mill Stars Emeiy Wheel Dressei's Sand Blast Nozzles 
for Malleable Iron 
Annealing Pots 
Foundries. 

Miscellaneotis White Iron Castings 
A. F. (ADFRIES,'16 
Vice-Pres. & Gen. Mgr. 
for Gray Iron Foundries 

•iiiitiiininiiiitiiiitiiitiiitMitiiiitiiiMiiMiiiiiMitiiiniDDiiiiiMiiinMii •iiiiitiiitiiiitilS 






