The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
700 Civilian 

Students in Summer Semester 
(Page 3) 


Community Appointments Are Made 
(Page 5) 


Association Officers Elected 
(Page I I) 
Sacred Heart Church <— Notre Dame 


VoL 21 No. 6 AUGUST. 1943 
brief, a great man—^not a financial wizard—but a great man. We're hoping that on K.P, or other 


ALmuU RelifUuU BtdletiH 
army duty or any work in military or civilian life that the boys aren't just 
=BY REV. JOHN P. LYNCH, C.S.C.S 
chickens but rather making love to God. 
IT WOBES! 

An old grad wrote to us saying we helped him toward a happy marriage, so we'll let him help regarding this 
month's colunm —and offer his comments, as a successful sales-manager, on that motto: " God first; others, second ; self, third". He finds that it works in business, too. 
He rephrases it thus : "Selfless­
FBdwr Lmdi 

ness is the most intelligent form of selfishness. We're all pretty selfish, whether we care to admit it or not. .. . On a strictly dollars and cents basis even, this pattern actually works out. I have seen sales­men set out to "clean-up" by taking advantage of every chance and loop­hole to make the extra personal dollar, but rarely does this type of mind accomplish much. And then I've often found it possible to take that same man and make a whiz bang money-earner out of him by getting him interested in some program or other which would swing his thought-pattern away from himself and onto the accomplishment of some objective for somebody else. Most shrewd sales organizations have found this fact most important, not only in building current sales to volume but in the much more important long-pull factor of building good men." 
THE HUMAN COMEDY 

Of course, we don't advance that motto as a formula for financial success though our correspondent insists it will bring that too. Perhaps—but it will bring happiness (and we seek money only for that elusive happiness) and it will bring success in saving our souls—^the only reason we exist. 
Saroyan and his "The Human Comedy" had an effective touch of what we mean. Remember the soldier, Mar­cus, talking about his home and folks to his buddy? bescribing his father, he canonized him with "Dad was a great man. Oh, of course, he wasn't what you'd call a financial success, but he was a great man." 
At Judgment Day, we have an idea God won't look up the financial pages of the A'. Y. Times or Dun and Brad­street to see how you rated, but he will read—and listen to—^the hearts of your wife and children, your pastor, your employees, the poor and those less fortunate than you, those whom yon could and did help for Him. 
PICKING CHICKENS OB MAKING LOVE? 
That same movie had another fine scene, the one showing Marcus picking chickens to the refrain of that old game, "She loves me, she loves me not, she loves me, she loves me not. . . ." His pal envied him, saying: "Here, we're both doing the same thing, but I'm just picking chickens and you're making love." 
You learned at Notre Dame that you can take any job and make it a prayer —in other words—make love to God—by offering it up to Him. 
That's the purpose of the Morning Offering, "Jesus, I offer you my prayers, work and sufferings of the day. . . ." for the various intentions mentioned in that prayer. The ideal is to renew that intention or offering frequently during the day, especially when the work or any suffering is tough, disagreeable. 
Thus every bit of work or suffering can be made a prayer—^vhether that work or suffering is in an office, a factory, a hospital bed, on a battlefield, on a ship, on, under or above the sea. 
PRACTICAL DAILY CHBISTIANITY 

Our religion is a very practical, every­day thing, not restricted to praying at Mass on Sunday. 
The boys at Notre Dame, as they were leaving for the service, were told to offer to God every bit of their military service, with all its anguish of body and soul; offer it daily to God as a prayer, especially in union with the Mass as the Morning Offering phrases it. 
Every bit of work and suffering thereupon becomes a prayer. It's offer­ing the work and the heart, doing the work of God—whence, making love to God. 
As a prayer, it can be offered in reparation for past sins and as a peti­tion for future grace and help to be a good soldier, to return safely to a decent future and a happy marriage, to be, in 
St. Paul said it this way, "Whether you eat or drink, or whatsoever else picking chickens but rather making love to God. 
•TF I DON1 COME BACK—" 

"Is that work, as prayer, wasted if I get killed and don't come back?" 
No. That's when making your work or service a prayer really pays off. First, your work, as prayer, increases your merit or the amount of grace you possess at death—and your place and happiness in Heaven is determined by that amount of grace. Next, that work as a prayer was offered in reparation for sin. That cuts down on time spent in Purgatory. 
Further, your death ^vith the proper motives and offering to God can be martyrdom. Dying a martyr's death means immediate entrance into Heaven, by-passing Purgatory. 
IS A SOLDIER'S DEATH MARTYRDOM? 
It can be! So says a pamphlet entitled, "More Friends of Happiness", issued not long ago by Fr. Dolan, O.Carm. His pamph­let, possessing the Church's imprimatur, stresses that the soldier dying in battle can be a martyr, if he has the proper subjective attitude and intention re­ferred to in the following quote: "To be a martyr and obtain the martyr's reward, is it necessary to die during a persecution? No. .. . As for the Catholic soldiers dying in the present war, it may well be that some are not only eager to defend their country against invasion but also anxious to de­fend their Church and their faith against Hitler's program of exterminating Christianity; if so, they are martyrs. Of the soldiers who do die in the present war, it is clear that, in view of the dan­gers they face, all of them are brave men; many thousands of them doubtless are martyrs, but quite possibly other thousands are not." 
Thus we see how important one's attitude is. Isn't that statement after all just a re-statement of "God, first; others, second; myself, third" even on the battlefield, with the prize—^immediate entrance into Heaven.. 
How much is that Heaven worth? It'took the imagination and power of a God to create it for us. It took the blood of a God to earn it for us. That's how much it's worth! 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This maeazine is published bi-monthly by the UniversitT of Notre Dame, Notre Dane, Ttii^j^T^g, entered US second class matter October 1, 1939, at the Fostoffiee, Notre Dune, Indiana, under the act of Augnst 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National CfethaUe Afamni Federation. 
lames E. Aimationg, '25, Editor: W^lUam R. DoeUT> '2B. Editor 
VOL. 21 AUGUST, 1943 No. 6 
Semester Opens With 700 Civilians 
Dean Froning Retires; Succeeded by Dr. Lawrence Bal­dinger; Dr. Andrew J. Boyle New Head of Qiemistiy Department; John P. Donnelly Succeeds Donald Easley. 
"The inarch is on" has a new emphasis on the Notre Dame campus. 
Since the opening of the summer se­mester on July 6, (slightly altered open­ing date from the original July 1), the tempo of war time has guided the largely uniformed but otherwise familiar col­umns of young men about the campus. 
Some 700 civilian students are distrib­uted among the five colleges of the Uni­versity. And the Navy V-12 program has something over 1,800 young men, half beginning college and half transfer or returned students. Of this group approx­imately 900 are in the whites of appren­tice seamen, 242 are in the same whites but wear a blue band around the cap to denote the N.E.O.T.C. (these boys will have khaki uniforms soon.) And 700 have, after three weeks of T-shirts, etc. of a more peaceful era, broken out in the olive green fatigue uniforms of the Marines (private rank) with promise of regular uniforms soon to come. 
The University faculty, with some changes, laimched itself after a two-months transition period into the 48­week school year that has banned all the traditional yearly interruptions. (The next and only holiday of the year is Christmas Day.) 
Outstanding change of alumni interest was the retirement at his own request of Prof. Henry B. Froning, head of the Department of Chemistry since 1920 and dean of the College of Science since the death of Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C, in 1940. 
Announcing this move. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president, said: "Al­though Dean Froning is retiring as ac­tive dean of science, the University is happy to retain his consulting services and his personal interest in the college which he has served ably and loyally since 1920. The outstanding work done in chemistry at Notre Dame during his tenunre %vas to a substantial degree a reflection of his scientific knowledge and his administrative ability." 
He will serve as special consultant to the President in matters pertaining to the Department of Chemistry, and will hold the title of dean emeritus. 
Lawrence H. Baldinger, a member of the faculty since 1933, was announced as the new dean of science. Prof. Baldinger has acted as dean for two semesters. He is a graduate of Western Reserve Uni­versity and holds his M.S. and Ph.D. from Notre Dame. His graduate work includes also studies at Purdue, Chicago and Wisconsin imiversities. Dean Bald­inger is a fellow of the American Asso­ciation for the Advancement of Science, a member of the American Chemical Society, the American Pharmaceutical Society, and other learned societies. 
Succeeding Dean Froning as head of the Department of Chemistry is Prof. Andrew J. Boyle. Prof. Boyle received his B.S. at Notre Dame in 1928, his M.S. the following year and his Ph.D. in 1931. He also took special work at Cornell and Columbia universities. 
Father O'Donnell has named Prof. George Hennion as director of research in the Department of Chemistry. Prof. Hennion is a graduate of the class of 1932. He received his M.S. in 1933 and his Ph.D. in 1935, all at Notre Dame. Post-graduate work in chemical engi­neering at the University of Wisconsin supplemented his work here. 
Large demands in physics and engi­neering dra^ving, particularly, have aug­mented the faculty with a number of new members. 
Francis J. Skeeler, formerly at Texas 
A. &. M. and for a number of years a teacher at St. Edward's University in Austin, Texas, is a new assistant profes­sor of physics. Three new instructors in physics are Chester R. Brothers, Goshen, Ind.; Morris Goran, Chicago, and John 
G. Halloran, Ballsten Spa, N. Y. Three graduate assistants in physics have been advanced to the status of full instructors —Walter C. Miller, Paul E. Wack, and Marcellus Wiedenbach. In the Depart­ment of Mathonatics, a similar advance­ment was made of Joseph Landin. 
In the College of Commerce, Prof. Wesley C. Bender will serve as acting head of the Department of Business Ad­ministration, during the absence of Lt. Alden E. Davis, USNR. In engineering, during the leave of absence of Prof.' F. 
N. M. Brown for his educational mission under the State Department to Chung­king, China, the acting head of the De­partment of Aeronautical Engineering will be Prof. Robert S. Eikenberry. And acting head of the Department of Pol­itics is Prof. Paul Bartholomew, daring the absence of Lt. Francis J. Poland, C.S.C., USNR. 
Noble Harbaugh, '32, M.S. '33, former teacher in South Bend Central High School, has joined the faculty of engi­neering drawing. In mathematics is Ed­ward D. Carey, former teacher at St John's, Worcester, Mass. Lee Daniel, University of Iowa graduate, is also an addition to the engineering faculty. ' 
In English, Alvan S. Ryan, PhJ)., former Summer School teacher, has joined the department, coming here from the University of Iowa faculty. He is a specialist in the literature of Cardinal Newman. 
Donald J. Easley, '21, director of stu­dent accounts, recently resigned. Mr. Easley has joined the accounting firm of King & King in South Bend. He is suc­ceeded at the University by John P. Don­nelly, A.B., '39, LL.B., '40, who had been acting as secretary to Frank Leahy. 
will increase, in many instances very 
The Centenary Fund-A Start 
Successes and Failures of the First Major Fund Pointed Out. 
In this issue of the ALU.MNUS, for purposes of record and recognition of pioneer effort, the total list of donors to the University in the Centenary Year is printed. 
As pointed out in previous reports, some of these gifts are direct gifts to the Centenary Fund, through the Alum­ni Association, through the President of the University, or through the office of the Director of Public Relations. Some of the amounts represent simply the gift to the Alumni Association of members using the old measuring stick of "dues." 
But as was outlined when the Cen­tenary Fund was launched, it was the first year of a progi-am of amr.tal giving by alumni, under which the alumnus was asked to give one gift each year for the University. Dues, as such, are dis­continusd, with the membership card, the ALUMNUS magazine, ticket prefer­ences, etc., that formerly went with the payment of dues being extended now to all contributors to the annual fund. 
No Measvirement Intended 

In the annual fund, and in this print­ing of its first year, thsre is no desire on the part of the Alumni Association or the University to measure, or imply any measurement of, the loyalty or the ability of the individual giver. 
In printing the report, the one thing we hope to stress is the need for raising the old sights from the few dollars it took to operate the Alumni Association, to the much larger contributions needed to permit the University to realize its opportunities and to discharge its re­sponsibilities. 
Also in printing the report we bring out several other points that must be stressed in the continuing program. 
Too few alumni participated. Even with the sentimental interest and the increased awareness that should have accompanied the 100th birthday of Notre Dame, fewer than one-third of the gradu­ates made any contribution. 
Too few Classes were actire. Some of the Class representatives functioned in the first year with excellent results. But they were in the minority, and it takes only quick reading in any Class to see- the room for improvement. 
Too fexv Clubs participated. The Club has an exceptional opportunity. By can­vassing its members it not only serves as a second front for the Class member, but it is the only agency which effectively reaches the non-graduate Notre Dame man. The St. Joseph Valley Club, the Detroit Club, and several others to a degree, demonstrated that the Clubs can do this work if they will. 
Pleasant Speculations Too 

But there were pleasant speculations in the first year results which suggest themselves with any study at all: 
Many alumni ivho normally give are not represented. The old rocking chair, or taxes, or a War Bond program, made them forget this Fund in one of its key years. They'll be back, we are con­fident. 
Many alumni who have never given will rei-z):nd. A number of alumni who never took the trouble to worry about the Alumni Association program and didn't understand its objectives, never con­tributed to it. But these alumni certainly Icnow the program of Notre Dame and its objectives. With a fund aimed at helping Notre Dame in this critical era, tliey'U be in. 
Many alumni ivho gave a little will give more. There are amounts after many names on this first list which are obviously no measure of either interest or ab.'lity. As these alumni realize the real need and the real significance of the nrw program, their contributions 
WARNING! IMPOSTORS! 
Periodically, the ALUMNUS has to repeat warnings to alumni re­garding persons posing as Notre Da:re n:en. Bill Shakespeare, '37, is the latest victii- of an impostor using his name and causing con­siderable embarrassment. Keep the Notre Dame spirit, which is an ad­mirable thing, but don't be afraid to check credentials before you show it. 

substantially. 
Many will give m^re War Bonds. 

Relatively few alumni took advantage of the opportunity to fit their Notre Dame giving into their War Bond pro­gram. As this convenient method of giving increases its appeal, and as more War Bonds are bought, there will un­doubtedly be more of them set aside wth the University's name (or, in the Series E, the name of Rev. Hugh O'Donnel!, C.S.C, president of the University) on them. The giving of War Bonds does not interfere with the individual budget, and since maturity value credit is given, the individual and his Class and Club increase their participation record through this channel. 
In addition to these considerations based on a study of the first year's re­port, there are factors at Notre Dame which should increase the response in this second year. 
The University's need is greater. Opportunities are increasing and obliga­tions are Increasing. But with the drop of civilian enrollment to the lowest figure since 1917, and with the Navy progi-am on a cost basis, the normal income stands to be more seriously curtailed. Unless the University is to be severely handicapped in this crisis, the income gap from these factors and the very low endowment must be bridged by the generosity of alumni and friends. 
University Need Greater 

The need for the University is greater. The approach of the end of the war, whenever that time may come, brings daily into the limelight plans and pro­grams and proposals which reveal some­times startlingly the need for principles by which to measure the problems of peace. More and more, a source from which to derive these principles increases in its value and its world significanci. Few sources equal Notre Dame—in the possession of principles and in the power to translate them through training and influence into the necessary world force for their realization. 
As you think of these things, plan now to participate in this second year of giving under the Association's pro­gram. Don't just send in $1 or $5 or even $10 casually. But think of what the united giving of the alumni can do through Notre Dame. Then, if it is still ?1 or §5 or $10, we will be very grateful. But if your ability permits an increase, then we believe you will also be a beneficiary of your own present ganerosity. 

Community Appointments for 1943-44 
Fathers O'Donnell and Cavanaugh Remain in Respective Offices; Father Robinson is President of Saint Edward's; Brothers Open New High School in Biloxi, Miss., with Brother Francis Borgia as Principal. 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell was re-appoint­ed president and Rev. John J. Cava­naugh, vice-president of the University on Aug. 3, as the Congregation of Holy Cross assigned duties to the 664 priests and Brothers in the United States prov­ince. 
The assignments, made every three years, e-xcluded the religious in India, the Philippines and the armed forces. 
Rev. William Robinson, at Notre Dame for the past year, was appointed presi­dent of St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas, succeeding Rev. Stanislaus F. Lisewski, who returns to Notre Dame as a teacher. Also returning from St. Edward's to Notre Dame are Rev. Wil­liam Molony and Rev. James Leahy. 
Pastors of all South Bend parishes also remained unchanged as the trien­nial obediences were read at a commun­ity conference in Sacred Heart church on the campus by Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, United States provincial. 
Rev. Wendell P. Corcoran, pastor at St. Joseph's parish; Rev. Patrick H. Dolan, pastor at St. Patrick's; Rev. Philip V. Beaghan, pastor at Holy Cross; Rev. Stanislaus A. Gruza, pastor at St. Hedwige's; Rev. Anthony J. Rose­wicz, pastor of St. Stanislaus; Rev. Boleslaus J. Sztuczko, pastor at St. Casimir's; Rev. Frank C. Brown, pastor at St. Mary's, and Rev. James H. Galla­gan, pastor at Christ the King, were the South Bend pastors reappointed to their posts. 
Among ths major changes at Notre Dame was the transfer of Rev. John Ryan, rector of Walsh Hall, to Sacred • Heart parish in New Orleans. He will serve as chaplain for prisonei's in the county prison there. Rev. Andrew Mulreany, assistant in New Orleans, is returning to Notre Dame to be chaplain at Dujarie Institute. 
Rev. John H. Murphy has been named superior of Moreau Seminary on the campus to succeed Rev. James Keiuia. The latter, with Rev. John Lane, will serve as assistant director of studies and will assume teaching duties. 
Rev. M. J. Early becomes superior of the Community Infirmary at Notre Dame succeeding Rev. Thomas P. Irving who will teach at the University. The assistant superior at the Community Infirmary will bs Rev, James McElhone for many years at Holy Cross Seminary. 
Rev. Joseph Hart of the Notre Dame mission band becomes superior of the eastern mission band at North Easton, Mass. Rev. Joseph R. McAllister, also of the Notre Dame mission band, becomes pastor of St. Mary's Church in Austin, Texas. 
Rev. John Molter, who will receive his Ph.D. in biology fi-om the University of Pennsylvania this summer, will join the Notre Dame faculty in the fall. Father Molter previously taught biology at Notre Dame. 
Rev. Francis P. Goodall, former editor of the Bengalese, mission magazine, Washington, D.C., is returning to the University to teach. Rev. John P. Lynch remains as chaplain of the Medi­cal Mission Sisters, Fox Chase, Phila­delphia. 
Outstanding assignments of the Brothers of the Congregation revealed 
FATHER JOSEPH BABRY, C.S.C. 
Army Chaplain in Sicily 

the- opening of a new high school at Biloxi, Miss. Brother Francis Borgia, formerly teaching at Cathedral Hi{^ School in Indianapolis, was named principal of the new school, assisted by Brothers Jacob, Jarleth, Nivard and Norman. 
In the second administrative change among collies. Brother Owen, superior of the Sacred Heart college at Water­town, Wis., becomes president and so­perior of Holy Cross college in New Orleans, La., succeeding Brother Harold, who will teach at Msgr. Coyle Hi ^ school in Taunton, Mass. Brother Bona­venture, succeeds Brother Owen at Watertown, while Brother Richard suc­ceeds Brother Bonaventure as superior of the Brothers at Msgr. Coyle Hi ^ school. 
Brother Thomas succeeds Brother John Baptist as superior of the Brothers at Vincentian Institute in Albany, N. Y. Brother John Baptist will continue stud­ies. Brother Simeon succeeds Brother Jacob as superior of the St. Charies Boys Home in Wauwatosa, Wis. 
Brothers Camillas and Lawrence, after studying social work at Chicago Uni­versity, are assigned to schools for de­linquent boys. Brother Lawrence will be field director at St. Charles Boys' home and Brother Camillus will be assistant field director at the Gibanlt School for Boys at Terre Haute, £(id. 
In keeping with the efforts being made by the Congregation to keep as many members as possible in hi^er studies, 25 priests and five Brothers wiU take up studies at Notre Dame and other universities. Due to wartime conditions the usual practice of sending a nninber each year to study in European univer­sities has necessarily been abandoned and attendance of the priests and Broth­ers been restricted to American and Canadian universities. 
The new high school opened by the Brothers of the Congregation at Bfloxi in the parish of Rev. Geoffrey O'Connell, outstanding American educator, has re­ceived the endorsement of Host Bev. Richard O. Gerow, D.D., Bishop of Natchez, Miss., in whose diocese the school is located. 
fraternal career had many echoes from 


Frank E. Hering, "98, Dies July 11 
Was an Outstandins Alum­nus Over Many Years 
Frank E. Hering, Ph.B. '98, LL.B. '02, lay trustee, former president of the Alumni Association, monogram man, former coach, outstanding fraternal leader in his work as editor of the Eagle Magazine, died on Sunday, July 11, at his home 919 E. Jefferson Blvd., in South Bend, after a long illness. His widow, Mrs. Claribel Ormsby Hering, survives him. 
Alumni are familiar with the great part Prank Hering played in the develop­ment of Notre Dame. He came to the University as an athlete and brought with him his fine scholarship and leader­ship which emphasized the possibility of the union of these qualities. He cap­tained and coached the University's major sports, becoming in effect the first director of athletics, and between 1895 and 1900 he established Notre Dame teams as fine competitive units in the rapidly growing sports world of the Middle West. 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, presi­dent of Notre Dame, summed up a great part of the University's feeling for Mr. Hering in the statement which he issued at the time of Mr. Hering's death: 
"It may truly be said that in the death of Frank E. Hsring a real void has been created in the family of Notre Dame. For almost half a century he served his Alma Mater in so many vari­ous capacities that he was accepted by succeeding administrations as the valued friend and true counsellor. In his own characteristic way he responded to every call, and he fulfilled his mission with uncompromising principle and steadfast purpose that grew out of a deep grati­tude to Notre Dame, the source of the knowledge and inspiration that shaped his future life. He was a trustee of her interests all through the years. 
"Those of us who enjoyed the intimacy of his friendship knew the depth of his patriotism and the value of his work for his beloved country during World War I, and later in this war. Because he had a full appreciation of the American her­itage, this patriotism was equally strong in time of peace. 
"I shall leave it to others to pay trib­ute to his work in fraternal circles. But I should like to stress his charity to the poor and underprivileged. Across the nation are innumerable persons whose lives have been made happier because of the years he devoted to securing passage of Isgislation to ease the lot of the widow, the orphan, and the aged. Countless times he raised his eloquent voice to plead for the oppressed, of whatever cclor or cresd, to help them attain the place in society which they 
FRANK E . BERING, '98 

deserve because of the sacredness and dignity of the human person. 
"I recall a line from a parable that he wrote long ago: 'So live that when you die, the poor, the sick, the outcast will mourn the passing of a friend.' Those words might well be Frank Her­ing's epitaph." 
His career in the Fraternal Order of Eagles reflected much of his Notre Dame background. He was the author of the Eagle ritual, and the prayers from that work read at his grave were not un­familiar to Notre Dame ears. 
Mother's Day, which he championed, found logical inspiration in the devotion which he had seen among the young men of Notre Dame. 
The program of social justice which he introduced in the development of his the classrooms of Notre Dame. 
And, though not a Catholic, Mr. Her­ing was all his life an outspoken cham­pion of the Catholic system of education which Notre Dame represents. 
His contribution to the Alumni Asso­ciation was invaluable and continuous, although his national presidency was officially the year 1930-31. His advice was as ready and as willingly given as it was valuable. He was constantly at the service of the University, the Alumni Association, and the Athletic Associa­tion. His own well-rounded interests gave him a deep interest in all of the affairs of the University. 
In his last year, with illness laying an increasingly heavy hand on him, Frank Hering gave freely of his talents and his resources to make the initial fund-raising effort of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley a success. His familiar fluency telling the always interesting story of Notre Dame key­noted that campaign. His own check stepped up the total substantially. And his personal hospitality rewarded the workers. 
In the long years of devotion to Notre Dame of a man of Frank Hering's talents and diverse interests is proof enough of the merits of the University to which he so freely'gave them. 
The University, the Alumni and the Athletic Associations were represented at Mr. Hering's funeral, and priests and laymen were among the literal thou­sands who paid their respects at the home, where banked rooms of flowers testified to the broadness and the rich­ness of the life of Frank E. Hering. 
OBSERVES GOLDEN JUBILEE 

Rev. John F. DeGroote, C.S.C, of No­tre Dame, one of the best known priests in the order, on July 21 observed with a solemn high Mass in Sacred Heart Church the 50th anniversary of his or­dination to the priesthood. Present for the Mass were hundreds of Father De­Groote's friends from the South Bend area. 
Rev. Bernard J. Ill, C.S.C, was deacon of Father DeGroote's anniversary Mass, and Rev. Joseph A. Maguire, C.S.C, was sub-deacon. Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C, was assistant priest, and Rev. William R. Connor, C.S.C, master of ceremonies. The sermon was by Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C, editor of The Ave Maria. 
Father DeGroote was bom in Misha­waka 76 years ago. For 24 years he was pastor of St. Patrick's South Bend. 



Another Fourth of July 
By REV. HUGH O'DONNELL, CS.C. President of the University 
An Address at the Convocation of the V.|2 Trainees in the Navy Drill Hall, Notre Dame, on Monday, July 5, 1943. 
A little to the west of Sacred Heart Church, here dn the campus, is a statue of a bearded man wearing a Civil-War uniform. He seems a patriarchal figure as he stands there looking heavenward, his right hand upraised. That man is Father William Corby, who was twice president of this University. A priest and a patriot, he served as chaplain with General Thomas Francis Meagher's Irish Brigade. The statue commemorates one of the most dramatic incidents of the Civil War: Father Corby's giving general absolution to the soldiers on the field before the battle of Gettysburg, just 80 years ago. 
That statue has significance for those of us who have been part of Notre Dame longer than you have been. As you come to know Notre Dame's ways, and to appreciate her traditions of edu­cation and patriotism, it will mean a great deal to you too. Whenever you see it, you will think of it, as we do, as a symbol of Notre Dame's dual loyal­ties, to God and country. 
Insepcnable Loyalties 

I would like to talk to you about these inseparable loyalties. The time is ap­propriate, because we are so close to the anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence, a statement of national faith based upon a recogni­tion of God, the Creator. And there is a personal reason: This is your in­duction into a new way of life. You are here to learn to serve God and country to the best of your ability, and it is fitting to reflect a little on the nature of your obligations. 
I shall not try to tell you anything new. From now on, you will hear hun­dreds of new things, and the telling of them may be left to the faculty and your naval and Marine superiors. I shall only remind you of some eternal truths that too much of the world has forgotten. If everyone had remembered, this would be a peaceful world—certain­ly, it would be a happier world—and we would not be calling upon you to correct the mistakes of your elders. You would not have what President Boosevelt has called "a rendezvous with destiny". But the responsibility is yours, and you can meet it only if you re-dedicate your­selves to the principles to whose support our ancestors mutually pledged to each other their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor. 
A New Philosophy oi Govenunent 

But let us begin at the beginning. The fathers of our country left their homes in the old world to escape tyranny and religious persecution. They came here to establish a sanctuary dedicated to the principles of man's rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, which the sanctity of the human person­ality demands. They were willing to fight and die for these. rights, if the occasion arose, as it finally did. 
When the Declaration of Indepen­dence came, 167 years ago, it did two things at once. Of course, it declared independence of England, but more than that, it announced a new philosophy of government that recognized God as the source of all authority and the fountain­head of the rights of man that govern­ment must respect. Never before had the principle been so promulgated. A brilliant speaker once said "the document might be truly considered a Declaration of Dependence—dependence on God." And that, my dear young men, is only another way of saying that without God there can be no true democracy. The Declaration is the substance of our government. Its insistence upon the God-given rights of man is the soul that gives America the breath of life. 
Now we are fighting to save that soul. Nation is armed against nation in a global war. Why? We know only too well that the world brought sorrow and desolation upon itself by forgetting God and glorifying man as man — the supreme, the omnipotent. Analyze the ideologies that threaten us: Nazism glorifies man in race. Communism glorifies man in the masses. Fascism glorifies man as the citizen of the state. Shintoi.sm glorifies man as the god-emperor. These are the ugly philoso­phies that are attacking us—we who believe that "all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights". Make no mistake about the purposes of this war as our allied leaders have defined them. We are fighting to maintain the principle of the Declaration of Inde­pendence for the world. 
One day, our armed forces will defeat the enemy. Then, when the powers of darkness have been overthrown, our homes and altars will be safe. But will they be safe? Can we be sure? It might be wiser to say: "Our homes and altars will be saf^ if loe have not de­stroyed them in the meantime". 
Tha New "Boia-BuineTs" 

Here is a paradox for you to consider. On several fordgn fronts, we Americans are fighting with the zeal of crusaders to preserve the God-given rights of man. But on the home front, some of us are just as zealously throwing overboard our ideals and standards of morality, and using as an excuse for our conduct the demands arising from wartime accelera­tion. I am reminded of a minor incident in American history that may serve as an analogy. About one hundred years ago, a certain political faction died a quiet death after its members had be­come known as "barn-burners". I am interested, not in the fate of the faction, but in the origin of the label that killed it. The reference was to the mental processes of a farmer who in an en­thusiastic, but misguided, moment burned down his bam to get rid of the rats. I am sorry to say there is some evidence that we are well on our way to becoming a bam-bnming nation. Our victory over the Axis will be hollow indeed if. 
in winning it, we wilfully sacriiice the very things that we are now fighting to save. 
In concentrating upon the defeat of the Axis, we sometimes lose sight of our ultimate goal, which is a strong nation that lives according to Christian principles. Such a nation cannot prosper except through the family in which God­fearing parents rear God-fearing chil­dren. And common sense tells us that certain aspects of the immediate war program are fraught with danger. Already we hear of disaster in homes where the father works on one shift in a defense plant and the mother on another, while the children roam the stx'eets, or are farmed out to a day nursery. The result is juvenile delin­quency, increased major crime, and a laxity of marital relationships that does not coincide with the Christian ideals for which we are fighting. I would not belittle the contribution that women ara making to the war effort, as members of the Red Cross, defense workers, or members of the auxiliary corps of the Army or Navy. Granting proper cir­cumstances and the absence of other responsibilities, their eagerness to help is laudably patriotic. But I am saying that the wife and mother who remains in her own home, living up to the Christian ideals of womanhood and motherhood is performing the greater patriotic service. Women have their duties on the home front, but the first home front is in the home. 
"The Greatest Post-War Danger" 

Is our national morality sound? Are we true to basic principles? You may draw your own conclusions from these few facts: Although this is a supposed­ly Christian nation, only 50.3 per cent of the total population are church mem­bers. .. . In 1940, the last year for which the World Almanac g^ives the figures, one marriage in six ended in divorce. . . The Children's Bureau of the Depart­ment of Labor reports that juvenile delinquency arose 18 per cent from 1940 to 1943. . . Mr. J. Edgar Hoover says that more persons 18 years of age are arrested than in any other age group, and only a few days ago expressed genuine alarm about the marked increase in crime among youth. . . . Dr. William Byron, sociologist of Northwestern Uni­versity, reports that delinquency among girls is growing twice as fast as among boys. . . And finally, this excerpt from a Chicago newspaper of June 13: "Divorce and delinquency are breaking up Chicago homes far faster than battle front casualties, and wartime unrest is 
The Notre D atne Alumnus 
causing the city's crime rate to soar. At the same time the number of mar­riages—and thus new families—^is de­creasing and the death rate is moimting slowly. . . The city's greatest postwar danger will not be economic, but will lie within the relations in the home." 
Post-War Plans Not Promising 

Substitute nation for dly. Say that "The nation's greatest postwar — and current—danger is not economic, but lies within the relations in the home," and you have the true picture. But these appalling conditions did not come with the war. The war only aggravated a case of moral anemia from which we have been suffering ever since we began to exclude God from our lives. Now we ave paying for our neglect. 
Let me put it this way. It is histori­cally true that a nation's strength— its spiritual strength, which is the only kind that counts—may be gauged by its fidelity to God. The God-fearing na­tion enjoys the fruits of its fidelity. All other things that make for strength are added to it:reverence for womanhood, a Christian family life, and schools that teach men how to live well here on earth so that they may live forever hereafter. On the other hand, it is also historically true that a nation which denies God and defies His will, sows the seeds of progres­sive and inevitable decay. For proof, examine the intellectual and spiritual disintegration of the dictator-countries. They are literally the horrible examples. 
If we are to be worthy of our Amer­ican heritage, we had better start put­ting first things first, before it is too late. We had better remember that this war is a means to an end; that the end is the preservation of the Christian way of life; that we can preserve a Christian way of life only by living Christian lives ourselves, not in some postwar Utopia, but here and now. 
In passing, I might say that, thus far, most of the plans for a postwar world are not very promising. They have the same fatal weakness that got us into the trouble we are now trying to get out of. They are not based on religion; they do not recognize God and the natural law with its concepts of rights and duties as they apply to nations and individuals. A new and better era will come only when we return to the faith of our fathers as found in the American credo, the Declaration of Independence. 
I shall not comment on the authors of the postwar plans except to ask you if you remember a famous character of 
Charles Dickens—Mrs. Jellyby. Mrs. Jellyby was a thoroughly sincere woman, with a thoroughly mistaken sense of duty. She was so concerned with the plight of the heathen in Africa that she devoted all her waking hours to plans for making them better folk. In fact, she was so completely absorbed in her self-imposed task that she let her chil­dren shift for themselves as best they could in a chaotic household which she had neither the time nor the inclination to care for. If our modem Jellybys want to do a real service, let them help now to bring order out of the moral chaos in our national household. They will find plenty to do without taking on any additional territory. 
Lire For Your Coimtry 

Why have I spoken to you as I have? Because I realize that task that lies before you, and I believe that you should give some thought to the forces that are undermining the American heritage here at home while you are getting ready to fight for it abroad. Ultimately, you will have to meet the enemy from within. I am not preaching to you. I am stat­ing a fact. This war is between pagan­ism and Christianity, between God and anti-God. But the issue will not be settled on the day when the Axis admit their defeat. Our nation's future will not be assured until, as a people, we again make religion the motivating force in our lives; until we again realize that true loyalty to country cannot exist without true loyalty to God. You see, therefore, that your responsibilities have already begun, and I assure you that they will not end when you take off your imiform and return to the life of a civilian. You will always have to fight to preserve what you will have won. You who are now offering your lives for your country must live for your country. You must have a voice in determining the future, in shaping a peace that •n'ill be permanent because it will be based upon charity and justice. 
One more word and I will close. Ai I said elsewhere, a few days ago, you are now welcome members of the family of Notre Dame. To those of you who are non-Catholics in this Catholic university, may I say that we respect your religious conscience, as we have always respected the conscience of the non-Catholic mem­bers of our faculty and student-body. Nevertheless, all of us have a religious bond, as I have tried to show you this afternoon, because all Americans are heirs to the tradition of Christian cul­ture, the greatest in the Western world. And I am reminded also that you, the 
(Continued on page 47) 


Zahm a Leader in 1893 Aerial Conferenoe 
50th Anniversary of Meeting Emphasizes Mo­mentous Contributions to Air Science of Notre Dame Alumnus — Professor—Laetare Medalist. 
{Ed. Note: The Alumni Association had hoped that the 50th anniversary of the Conference on Aerial Navigation, August 1, 2, S and U, would provide a basis for nation-wide recognition of the great contribution to science in this field made by Dr. Albert F. Zahm, A.B. '83, A.M. '85, M.S. '90, LLJ). '17, Lae­tare Medalist of 1925. War conditions prevented much of the observance that had been anticipated, but alumni should knoiv of the great work of Dr. Zahm. In addition to the feature appended, the letter from Dr. Zahm contains some very interesting facts, and his own modest and graciotis recognition of the University's contribution to his work, and through it to science in the field of aeronautics.) 
Albert F. Zahm a graduate of the University in the class of 1883 and for a decade thereafter a member of the graduate school and the University fac­ulty, is heralded today as one of the great scientists in aeronautics. He holds the Guggenheim Chair of Aeronautics in the Library of Congress and has for a half century been recognized as a leader in his field of science. 
During his undergraduate days and while he taught at Notre Bame, the Scholastic carried accounts and illus­trations of his experiments with birds and with models, from which he derived some of the earliest practical applica­tions of flying principles to heavier than air machines. 
On August 1, 2, 3, and 4, 1893, just 50 years ago. Prof. Zahm called the first International Conference on Aerial Nav­igation ever held in this country. It assembled in Chicago during the Colum­bian Exposition there, with O. Chanute as chairman, and Dr. Zahm as secretary. 
The Notre Dame scientist read two vital papers at that Conference, from which stemmed a confidence and an ad­vance of scientific knowledge that led to the successful flight of the Wrights at Kitty Hawk a decade later, the first flight of man after centuries of dream­ing and experiment. 
Dr. Zahm had built his equipment largely at Notre Dame, in the labora­tories of Science Hall. He flew gliders from the roofs of that building and other familiar heights. He constructed here a small wind tunnel, forerunner of his first, and the world's first major wind tunnel which he latsr built at Catholic University. 
His classmates and faculty members joined in his experiments, although his own vision of successful flying was shared by few. He launched gliders of varying sizes, including a man-carrying model. He proposed the release of a model of this latter type from a balloon, but the finances of the University and himself were not adequate, and this ex­perimsnt was not performed until years later at Santa Clara, with, however, the anticipated valuable results. 
Dr. Zahm has subsequently taught at Catholic University, and was director for many years of the aerodynamic labora­tories of the United States Navy, most effectively during World War I. His in-
DR. ALBERT F . ZAHM, "SS 

An Aeronautical Pioneer 

ventions have been outstanding contribu­tions to the science of aeronautics in the half century since the first Conference. 
It was in Chicag9 that the aeronau­tical scientists of the world achieved a status that no longer bore the onus of eccentricity that had plagued their earli­er efforts. Dr. Zahm and Channte had agreed ahead of time to eliminate the cranks and avoid the bizarre proposals that had thrown other efforts into dis­repute. It was also in the Chicago con­ference that American scientists decided to leave the well developed science of balloons to the Enropeans who had done well with it, and to concentrate in this country on the fiying machine. Dr. Zahm, at that early date, predicted the con­struction of all-steel machines, with mul­tiple passenger possibilities. 
And during all these years, the dis­tinguished scientist has been an out­standing Catholic layman, receiving the Laetare Medal from Notre Dame in 1925, and the Mendel Medal frcmi ViUa­nova in 1930. His brother was the dis­tinguished priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Rev. Dr. John A. Zahm, C.S.C., himself a scientist of fame, an authdr, and a traveler. The east moral in the University cafeteria commonor­ates Father Zahm's trips to South Amer­ica, and his hooks on that country were among the early recognitions of a need for Latin American understanding in this country. 
Notre Dame laboratories have cradled many significant developments of science in this country. Here, in the cheoustry laboratories. Father Nieuwland worked with the acetylene reactions that pro­duced many contributions to progress, including the basic formulae for syn­thetic rubber. In the physics laboratories. Prof. Jerome Greene built the first wire­less mechanism to successfully send a m^sage in this country. 
And as America's air power paves the way for a world victory for the United Nations it magnifies the significance of the work done in the science and aigi­neering laboratories of Notre Dame in the '80s and '90s by Albert F. Zahm, 
pioneer scientist in the field of aero­nautics. 
THE LIBRARY OP CONGRESS Division of Aeronautics Washington 
April 24, 1943. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, President. University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 
Dear Father O'Donnell: 
Under separate cover, I have pleasure in sending you two books containing some accoiut of my aero­nautical work at Notre Dame in 1892­
93. Earlier accounts appeared in various Scholastic articles which are available in photostat form, and are itemized in the complete list of my aeronautical papers, published in the period 1882 to 1942 inclusive. The complete list can be forwarded some­time; and the papers themselves, in five volumes, are now in the bindery. 
The first of said books is a manu­script diary, of some ninety pages, covering the organization and conduct of the Aeronautical Conference of 1893, and the publication of its pro­ceedings. The second book, of over four hundred pages,-contains the pro­ceedings, including nearly forty technical papers contributed from many countries. These two records may indicate the kind of work ac­complished, and its value to aviation. Incidentally they show who initiated the Conference, a point ignored in Milbank's chronology for 1893. 
Both of my Conference papers (pp. 163 and 273 of the Proceedings) were prepared at the University. The one on Atmospheric Gusts, etc., had appeared in the Scholastic of June 17, six weeks before the Conference. The one on Stability, etc., completed in the early summer of 1893, was large­ly prompted by previous study of mechanical theory and of models made and flown at Notre Dame. 
The first paper, please observe, was the work of many hands; of kind friends offering instruments, material, skilled service from the shops, physi­cal laboratory, draughting room, etc. We all were enthusiasts thinking nothing of the future but everything of the science to be investigated. Finally, when Mr. Chanute came from 

' Chicago bringing his small Richard wind-speed meter, the college bam sent us a horse and sleigh to haul the towering home-made "Universal Re­cording Anemometer" into the snow-covered 100-acre meadow south of the old post office. There we danced and shivered watching the chronograph drtmi unreel its 50-foot record of wind variations of pitch and yaw in a clear level field free of nearby obstructions. It was a pioneer record which many times since has been duplicated, with smaller instruments, in the world's aerodynamic laboratories and on large transport planes in scheduled flight. For when invisible gusts tore off the wings no time could be lost in obtain­ing records of such destructive agents. 
These details are intended to show how very generous and helpful the University was in those early days when aerodynamic research, in both hemispheres, lighted the way of aero­nautic science to its marvelous de­velopments in the present century. 
My second paper outlined the dynamic conditions for stable and steady flight of both gliders and power planes; also it discussed the design and performance of possible helicopters. Its analysis of unpowered flight, yn.\h inherent stability about three axes, has been examined by competent modem engineers and pro­nounced still valid. The proposed method of powerplane takeoff and control is in daily use. Particularly the three-torque system of flight con­trol by the pilot is everywhere used. Though first explained and publicly discussed at this conference, and then published for common use, the system was later patented in various styles, by commercial inventors,-atfd''aroused much court litigation. No-one-at the meeting seemed aware that Goupil. in France, had described a similar scheme in his book nine years pre­viously but without enlisting active interest. 
It would be improper here to attempt a worthwhile analysis of the many good papers in the Proceedings. Among their ^lithors you may notice the famous naimes of Secretary Lang­ley, Professor Thurston of Comdl, and William' Kress of Vienna who pioneered in. both landplane and sea­plane research. It may suffice to say, \vith a recent aviation historian: "the Conference forined an important milestone in the progress of aero­nautics." He could have added that Notre Dame actively promoted it, as she habitually fosters advancement in the arts and sciences. . . . 

With many thanks and cordial good wishes. 
Very sincerely yours, 
ls| A. F. Zahm 
Chief, Division of Aeronautics 


PROGRAM FOR 1943-44 

Pending the evolving of a more de-­tailed program by the Alumni Board, the Alnmni Association suggests for alanini, dubs and Classes the following points, all basic and all a part of the program to come: 
1.
 In serrice, or out, the day-to-day life of educated Christian gentlemen which has already reflected great credit upon the University, and which grows more vital as example. 

2.
 Club meetings regularly, to keep the home fires burning, and to preserve and promote the local contacts which will make the rehabilitation of your members advantageous. 

3.
 Preservation of Class interest and conUcto through the ALUMNUS, no matter how curtailed the space and style may have to be. 

4.
 Club spiritual activities for the men in the service, with special reference to the participation of their families—the Retreat and the Communion Breakfast and Memorial Masses are very helpful in many ways. The Club service-men let­ters are excellent. 

5.
 Universal participation in the hoped-for Communion Sunday this fall. 

6.
 100 percent Club participation in the Universal Notre Dame Night next Spring. 

7.
 Much better participation in the Second Annual Fund, which will follow the Centenary Fund, to continue alumni aid to the University in this critical per­iod. Two things we hope for which you can plan now, while the general program is being developed: 


a.
 The same, or more, from all Cen­tenary Fund donors. 

b.
 A contribution from those who did 



not give to the Centenary Fund. Either of the above will guarantee a successful second year. Both will guar­antee the successful continuation of the University's vital program. 
8.
 Continued interest in the presence at Notre Dame of the best type of stu­dent from all over the U. S., to the limit of civilian capacity and qualifications of the selective service. 

9.
 Continued interest in the placing of Notre Dame men in the most advantage­ous jobs, with a speaal consideration now for job-planning for the N. D. men in the service when they return. Clubs, espeoally, could set up post-war place­ment committees nomr. 

10.
 Continued informing of yourself on the program, problems and needs of Notre Dame, and the passing along of this information to those outside the alonini who can be helpful to Notre 


. Dame. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
n 


THOMAS F. BYRNE, '28. IS MEW PRESIDENT 
CAMPUS NOTES 

Campus activities go on, with special provision for the hundreds of service men who now inhabit the campus. For them especially, a series of Sunday aft­ernoon concerts, discussions and exhi­bitions was arranged by the administra­tion and faculty, with Father John Bed­nar and Professors Sullivan, Pedtke, T. 
B. Campbell and Montana and the Moreau Choir participating. Professors Birder and O'Malley, Librarian Paul Byrne and Alumni Secretary Armstrong are assisting. 
Friday evening outdoor concerts by the Band (singly) and the Glee Club and Symphony Orchestra (together) are among the best-received events of the summer.... The Law Club and the K. of C. have each sponsored a dance.... The military week-end in South Bend was brightened when the Service Men's Center took over the Palais Royale at Michigan and Colfax, moving from the quarters on La Salle near Michigan which, with the advent of V-12, had be­come all too cramped. Saturday and Sun­day dances and other activities, not to mention attractive cadettes and food, milk and soft drinks, bring in throngs weekly.... Mrs. J. Arthur Haley heads St. Mary's and Notre Dome hare aneqnid share in tlw faaiily oi Thomas F. Bime.'28. 
the group of women which run the new Alumni Association president. Left to right. Tent. lir.. Maureen. Billy and Clani Center. 
Ann. plus Mr. and Mrs. Byrne. Mrs. Byrne is the faimsr Catherine McGtrem. St Mary's 
A gold star flag, vdih 56 stars, was graduate of '33. hung in the sanctuary of Sacred Heart Church The Scholastic, with Parre Thomas F. Byrne, '28, Cleveland, the Despatch and his 365-day year as an an 
J. Pequigney, Galveston, Texas, as edi­newly elected president of the Alumni interested alumnus (The Kid has. ap­tor, and Robert H. O'Toole, Chicago, as Association, is already well into his parently stayed in on Leap Year, up to managing editor, surmounting large ob­work. Tom, an executive with the Ohio this point). stacles, is appearing every Friday as of Bell Telephone Co., visited the Univer­
John T. Balfe, '20, the other vice-yore with Father Charles Carey as fac­sity on July 20 and 21 for conferences 

ulty advisor. Not a single experienced with the Alumni Olfice staff and the 
president, is equally well known, throngk editor was on hand at the start. his activity in the Notre Dame CInb of 
president of the University and honorary 
New York and his attendance at many 
president of the Association, Rev. Hugh 
The fate of Scrip is in the lap of the Reunions and Commencements on- the 
O'Donnell, C.S.C. He also attended as 
Board of Publications, which will soon campus. 
his iirst official function, the golf day 
decide whether it will be published "for 
dinner of the Notre Dame Club of the 
the duration" ... . The current phy ed E. Bradley Bailey, '22, Philadelphia, program is really something, as more St. Joseph Valley. is known in that area, (for bis eleven than 2,000, military and non-military, children as well as for his devotion to 
Messages from the other newly elected 

"take it" five days a week. The obstacle Notre Dame) and;in his four forth­
officers, and from the officers holding 
course, in the woods across from the coming years as a director will un­
over, assure the Association of another 
Biology Building, is part of the pro­doubtedly become a foremost figure in 
banner year. 
gram, and a husky part Interhall Association annals. competition is strong in Softball and Gerald Ashe, '22, vice-president, is 
Harry Kelly called from Lansing to tennis, with lots of baseball thrown in nationally known through' his wide 
offer his continuing support. Jack Hig­informally. travels as auditor for the Merchants 
gins, Detroit, Bill Mooney, Indianapolis, The Religious Bulletin, six-pages and and the Rev. M.'L. Horiarty, President mimeographed, appears only once a week in Bishop O'Hara's old room in Sorin... Byrne's resident director, complete the now and is distributed after the Masses There are afternoon Masses in several 1943-44 Board. With the steam already on Sunday. Wartime conditions on the halls every afternoon except Sunday.... up,' the new Board is working on 'a campus brought about the change. The Father Sheedy is editor of The Chap­program which will make the Centenary Bulletin had appeared daily except Sun­lain's Digest going to military chaplains Year just a step in the right direction; day since 1921. Editor and Prefect of all over the world, with sermon outlines, The membership are respectfully urged 
Religion, Father Craddick, headquarters suggestions, brief articles, etc. to consider this the alert. • 
12 
N. D. Receives Irish Brigade Flag 
Presented by Grandchildren of General Meagher's Aide 
Notre Dame has received the gift of a most interesting historical iiag, the flag carried through the Civil War by the Irish Brigade. The new flag was pre­sented after the war by Gen. Thomas F. Meagher, commander of the Brigade, to his aide, Thomas P. Martin. It is from Mrs. Miriam E. Gregory, 7206 Prince­ton avenue, Chicago, and her brother, Andrew A. Martin, El Paso, Texas, grandchildren of Mr. Martin, that the University has received this addition to its Civil War collection. 
In acknowledging the receipt of the gift, Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, presi­dent of the University, pointed out that the University already proudly possesses a second flag of the Irish Brigade, and the sword of Gen. Meagher. 
Particularly dear to Notre Dame is the history of the Irish Brigade because of the close association of Notre Dame priests with the Brigade as chaplains. 
Rev. Paul Gillen, C.S.C, was the first priest assigned. He went to Washington in 1861. The same year Father Edward Sorin sent Father James Dillon, C.S.C, who joined the Irish Brigade in October. Because of the large number of Catho­lics in the Brigade, Father Dillon wrote and asked for Rev. William Corby, C.S.C, to come to his aid. 
The significance of the flag is indicated in the Centenary history of Notre Dame, 
•which says: ". . . Confederate soldiers had reason to remember the fighting spirit of the Irish. 'Here comes that damned green flag again,' they would shout when the Irish Brigade went for them " 
The spirit of Notre Dame's chaplains was exemplified on the day that Father Dillon discovered himself shouting orders to the soldiers, while most of Gen. Meagher's officers were incapacitated, until he was relieved by a more fitting officer. Only at that moment, history says, did he realize the incongruity of a priest pushing soldiers into battle. 
Father Corby's offer of himself as a chaplain was accepted by the governor of New York and he was appointed to General Meagher's famous Brigade. His first winter was spent in inaction. He followed the Brigade to Manassas and Bull Run and through the malaria hor­rors of Chicahominy swamps. His bap­tism of fire came at Fair Oaks, where both sides lost 12,000 men. Father Corby was with the Irish Brigade through An­tietam, Fredericksburg, Chaneellorsville, Gettysburg, the Wilderness and Spott­sylvania. 
His greatest renown came at Gettys­burg where he stood on a rock and gave the entire Brigade general absolution be­fore the battle. A picture of the scene hangs in the University art galleries, and a statue of Father Corby stands on the field of Gettysburg, with a replica in front of the hall named in his honor at Notre Dame. 
This rich history, indelibly written on Notre Dame's records, makes the acqui­sition of the precious heirloom from the Martin and Gregory families doubly sig­nificant. The new flag in Notre Dame's collection, in the words of Mrs. Gregory, "is about seven by twelve feet, hand­made of wool bunting. It has been care­fully mended but is frail. . . ." The list of battles through which it went sup­plements this modest statement. 
Notre Dame priests are again distin­guishing themselves as chaplains. And Notre Dame men, themselves universally known as "the Fighting Irish," are bringing new glories to the patriotic tra­ditions of the University. 
FIREEN ORDAINED JUNE 24 

Fifteen seminarians of the Congfrega­tion of Holy Cross were ordained to the priesthood in the annual ceremonies at the University on June 24. A six­teenth. Rev. Philip J. Mitchell, C.S.C, St. Johns, N.B., Canada was ordained in that city on June 3. 
Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, ordained the young men in Sacred Heart Church on the campus. 
Members of the 1943 class are: Edgar 

S. SzymansW, South Bend, a graduate of the University in 1936, whose health postponed his ordination for two years until the present class; Thomas J. Mc-Donagh, Chicago, and Theodore M. Hesburgh, Syracuse, N. Y., both mem­bers of the class of 1938 at Notre Dame, and William A. Botzum, Akron, O., who was graduated as a lay student in 1938 from Notre Dame; Charles W. Harris, Plymouth, Ind.; James C. Healy, Chica­go; Albin L. Hosinski, South Bend Thomas J. Brennan, New York City David H. Fosselman, Huntington, Ind. James V. Lowery, Sewickley, Pa.; Ed­mund N. Goedert, Oak Park, 111.; Greg­ory J. Steigmeyer, Dayton, O.; and Arnold A. Fell, Niagara Falls, N. Y., all members of the Notre Dame class of 1939; Jeremiah R. Buttomer, Quincy, Mass.; and Leo J. Sullivan, Binghamton, 
N. Y. 
T ITERALLY in the spotlight is Tom 
Mulready, '38, who under his profes­sional name, Tom Reddy, is master-of­ceremonies of the Fitch Bandwagon pro­gram on NBC. 
TOM REDDY (MUI£B.\DY) '38 

Tom was radio annoimcer before he ever came to Notre Dame, making his debut on Station WJAG, Norfolk, Nebr., when he was only 15 years of age. He took four years out for his college edu­cation, and then became an actor at Sta­tion WSBT in South Bend. 
Since then he has announced news and special events at Stations KSCJ, Sioux City, Iowa; WNAX, Yankton, S. D., and WHO, Des Moines. 
Tom shortened his name to Reddy for purposes of euphony, but still sticks to his good old Irish name when he is not on the air. 
He has moved his wife and three sons to Hollywood. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
filoi^ jb<UMe> BooAl 
Notre Dame's literary life has been under the bushel with its academic light, too long. 
Imposing to alumni, and to any others interested seriously, is the compilation by Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C, '24, of a List of Facility Publications as a part of the Centenary observance. 
Father Moore's volume includes the Notre Dame faculty authors of a cen­tury, suffering he admits from a lack of early records. Further limitation comes from the very scholarly approach, which permits the listing of works only within the fields of the arts and the sciences, and from the definition of faculty member which leaves out all who have not been on the faculty a year or more with the full rank of instructor or higher academic rating. Consequently there is no repressntation of the long and illustrious parade of special lec­turers who have been withal a brilliant part of Notre Dame's academic tapestry. 
But of the material within the true scholar's scope of this work, there emerges 120 pages, representing 195 faculty members. And within these there lies a most creditable record of the great minds which have guided the destinies of the University in its classrooms and laboratories. This, too, in spite of a stress on undergraduate teaching, and a lack of resources which have not per­mitted at Notre Dame the leisure and the research reflected elsewhere in more voluminous publications. 
Alumni may secure this Centenary volume of reference for $1 by writing to Father Moore or the Alumni Office. 
Notre Dame's work in germ-free tech­niques is reflected in a volume just pub­lished by Charles C. Thomas Co., edited by Prof. James A. Eeyniers, '30, assist­ed by Robert F. Ervin, '36. Titled 
Micrurgical and Germ-Free Techniques, 
the book contains 17 contributions from outstanding American bacteriolo­gists in addition to Prof. Reyniers, but deals principally with the 10 years of research in the University labora­tories. 
The book is dedicated to the late Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C, '11, dean of the College of Science, one of the volume's contributors. Philip C Trex­ler, '34, present faculty member, and Dr. A. S. Giordano, of the South Bend medical laboratories are other local con­tributors. 
Processes of obtaining and rearing germ-free guinea pigs, mice, rats, rab­bits, chickens and small monkeys, are described as carried out at Notre Dame. Objects of the research are evident in the application to studies of nutrition, origin of antibodies, development of natural immunity to infection or toxic agents, old age phenomena and the de­velopment of dental caries. 
Indicative of the growing recognition of Notre Dame's literary traditon is the inclusion of Notre Dame authors in a recent volume. With a. Merry Heart, edited by Paul Phelan, published by Longmans. Sub-titled a 'treasury of humor," the volume contains entertain­ing excerpts from works of Catholic authors. Among the Notre Dame alum­ni representatives are Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C, '23; Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C, '11, George N. Shuster, '15, and Norbert Engels, '26. 
Also represented, and familiar to Notre Dame men, are Arnold Lunn, G. 
K. Chesterton, Theodore Maynard, T. A. Daly, Austin O'Malley, Msgr. Fulton Sheen, and Maurice Francis Egan, all of whom taught or lectured at Notre Dame, and Agnes Repplier, distinguished author and Laetare Medalist of 1911. 
Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C, '18, professor of sociology, author of several previous works of wide recognition, has written a new volume, .Man's Unknoiim Ancestors, heralded as the only recent authoritative study of pre-history, pub­lished by Bruce. The book is a layman's look at the human life in the era before history. It recounts discoveries by pre­historians (of whom Father Murray is an important figure) in various areas of the United States, particularly in the Southwest. The Aztecs, Mayes and other Latin American races are included in the studies. Many features of the book are receiving excellent criticisms as valuable contributions to the field of study. 
John F. Pick, '33, has aroused a very favorable and widespread response with a book published by the Oxford Univer­
sity Press, Gerard Manley Hopkins, Priest and Poet. The study is described as being more interpretative than bio­graphical, but reveals many phases of the life of the famous Jesuit poet not frequently encountered. There are a'. few flaws in the treatment of the Cath­olic phases of the subject, several re­views call attention to, but these do not, as Father Charles Carey says in The Ave Maria, ". . . keep his study &om being considered the best effort yet made to introduce a difficult and strange poet to his own people." 
Moment of Truth, published last spring by Charles Scribner's Sons ($2.75) is the realistic work of one of Notre Dame's most colorful former students. Col. Charles Sweeny, ex. '02. 
Col. Sweeny is, and has always been, a professional soldier, and he has small use for the civilian's part in the direc­tion of battlefield strategy. Civilian Wash­ington he particularly doesn't like, and says so emphatically in a chapter of sur­prising condemnation. 
Col. Sweeny's forceful views as to the conduct of the current war, his opinion of the German war machine and of Hit­ler, his convictions as to Japan, his feel­ings regarding the British Empire — of which he is none too fond — all are of added interest now as the war appears to have reached a new turning point. CoL Sweeny has courageously "stuck his neck out" in print, and his future readers will perhaps have some fun, as the Colonel doubtless anticipated, in chopping it off. Or perhaps they won't. 
Col. Sweeny was bom in San Fran­cisco on Jan. 2, 1882. After a year at Notre Dame and two years at West Point he embarked upon a career as a professional soldier which has carried him through four wars, beginning with the Mexican Revolution of 1910-11. When the first World War broke out, he en­listed in the French Army, by 1917 had risen from private to captain, and was attached to the French Mission to the United States as an Aide-de-Camp to Marshal Joffre. 
Transferring to the American Army with the rank of major, in Hay of that year, he commanded a battalion of In­fantry in France. In 1925 Major Sweeny organized and commanded the American Flying Squadron which served with the French Forces in Morocco against Ahd­el-Krim. He had further North African experience when, in 1928-29, under the command of General Armengaud, he served as assistant chief of a mission to 
(Continaed on page 36) 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 



Obediences Reveal C.S.C. Scope 
C.S.C. Priests and Brothers Serve All Over the World. 
With the release of the complete Con­gregational obedience. list which comes with the triennial Provincial chapter, the national—^in fact the international— ramifications of the United States Prov­ince of the Congregation of Holy Cross stand out somewhat startlingly. 
The priests of the Congregation, for example, in addition to the teaching and administering of the University of Notre Dame, conduct the following major pro­jects : 
St. Edward's University, Austin, Tex­as, a 55-year old school, with both col­lege and high school departments. 

The University of Portland, formerly Columbia, a 39-year old institution, which includes a four-year liberal arts college, a college of science, a college of business administration, a college for nurses, and a preparatory school, still called Columbia. 
Two active mission bands, one cen­tered at Notre Dame and one at North Easton, Mass., which conduct missions in various parishes, novenas. Forty Hours, retreats (including from 1918 to 1941 the annual Laymen's Retreat at Notre Dame), conferences and sermons. 
Special missions among the Mexicans and the Negroes in both the North and the Southwest. 

The missions in Bengal, formed short­ly after Notre Dame was founded. They now include the entire diocese of Dacca under the United States province (with the Chittagong diocese under the Can­adian province of the Congregation). The Dacca mission comprises 20,000 square miles, has 28 priests and 14' Brothers of the Order. 
T}w Ave Maria magazine, oldest Cath­olic family magazine in the United States, of its kind, established by Father Edward Sorin in 1865. It is published weekly, its editorial staiF composed en­tirely of priests of the Congregation. 
The Bengalese magazine, established in 1919 to promote the missions in India. Until recently it was the only American magazine devoted exclusively to mission work in India. It is published in Wash­ington and edited by priests of. the Cong:regation. 
The Annals of Our Lady of Lotirdes, 

published monthly at Notre Dame, de­voted to the Confraternity of the Im­maculate Conception, of which it is the oflicial publication. It is edited by the priests and Brothers of Holy Cross. 
Houses of formation, which include Holy Cross Seminary and Moreau Sem­inary at Notre Dame; Holy Cross Col­lege in Washington, D.C.; St. Joseph's Novitiate at Rolling Prairie, Ind.; Holy Cross Novitiate in North Dartmouth, Mass., and the Seminary of Our Lady of Holy Cross, in North Easton, Mass., which has junior college rating. 
The Congregation last spring opened up a new field in South America with the assumption of direction of the Col­egio San Jorge, in Santiago, Chile. 
There are in the United States also 17 parishes which are under the pastor­ates of member of the Congregation, some of them with assistants also from the Order. Many priests, stationed in the houses of the Congregation, assist in parish work throughout the year on a week-end basis. 

Currently, the Congregation has 18 priests serving as chaplains, three times the number assigned in World War I. 
The activities of the Brothers is equal­ly diverse, in many instances providing an invaluable supplementary service in the work of institutions and publications listed above. 

In addition, the Brothers conduct their own houses of formation in Watertown, Wis., Valatie, N. Y. and at Notre Dame. 
High schools in South Bend; Chicago; Indianapolis; Albany, N. Y.; Evansville, Ind.; Long Beach, Calif.; Biloxi, Miss.; Taunton, Mass., and New Orleans, are conducted by the Brothers. 
Brothers conduct the large St. Joseph's farm near the University of Notre Dame, and handle the business and printing phases of Tlie Ave Maria and Annals, in addition to publishing a num­ber of books and pamphlets through The Ave Maria Press. They also occupy sev­eral executive posts in the University, and several key maintenance posts. 
Social work finds Brothers operating the Gibault Home, a Knights of Colum­bus project, in Terre Haute, Ind.; the St. Charles Home in Wauwatosa, Wis., and the St. John Bosco Center in Spo­kane, Wash. 
Under each of the above activities of the priests and brothers of the Congre­gation there are innumerable ramifica­tions. The combined operations involve more than 700 men, all giving their lives to the spiritual work of the missions and Catholic education. 
CAMPUS CLUBS ELEQ OFFICERS 

Combining the military with the civ­ilian in their membership, many of the leading campus organizations have elect­ed new ofiicers, are continuing activities. 
Robert F. Hallein, a senior engineer from Springffield, Mass., was elected grand knight of Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus. Other K. of C. officers are John T. Davis, Charleston, 
W. Va., deputy grand knight; John E. DeMoss, South Bend, chancellor; Eugene 
C. Wohlhom, Bellaire, N. Y., treasurer; Francis J. Magnella, Bradford, Pa., re­corder; John R. Thimim, Aurora, 111., warden; Felix A. McParland, Shady-side, O., advocate; Louis F. Lauth, Burlington, la., inside g^uard; Edward 
F. Schmid, Detroit, outside guard; Jo­seph E. Howard, South Bend, financial secretary; Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C, Notre Dame, and James V. Lovelly and Eugene P. Klier, both of South Bend, trustees. 
Richard R. Borgess, Toledo, is the new president of the Commerce Forum. Jo­seph D. O'Keefe, Chicago, is its vice-president, and Joseph H. Mumane, Co­lumbus, O., its secretary. 
The Wranglers elected William F. Lawless, Buffalo, N. Y., as president and James L. O'Dea, Lowell, Mass., as sec­retary. The Economic Round Table chose James C. R. Clark, Hamilton, O., presi­dent, and George H. Hegner, Sewickley, Pa., secretary. The Bookmen named Wil­son J. Puhr, Sheboygan, Wis., as presi­dent and Mr. Clark as librarian. 
The Law Club elected Hal E. Hunter, New Madrid, Mo., president; William F. Martin, Los Angeles, vice-president; Jo­seph E. Farmer, Oak Park, 111., secre­tary; and John P. Lawler, Tampa, Fla., treasurer. The Glee Club is led by David 
J. Curtin, Rochester, N. Y., president; Herbert F. Clark, Park Ridge, 111., vice-president; Francisco Repilado, Santiago, Cuba, secretary; and James E. Mona­ghan, Denver, business manager. 
The Notre Dame Symphony elected John G. DiGirolamo, Mishawaka', Ind., president; Charles C. Crown, Great Neck, 
N. Y., vice-president; Philip E. Podruch, Wausau, Wis., secretary-treasurer. 
Br J. WUTEB lENNEDT. '34 Spocia Pnbiicitr Oiractor 

ATHLETICS 
FOOTBAU 
Notre Dame's summer football practice got under way on July 26, when 61 can­didates for the 1943 team reported to Head Coach Frank Leahy and his staff of assistants. Twenty were civilian stu­dents, and the rest were members of the naval V-12 • program. 
Beports to the contrary, Notre Dame did not inherit a galaxy of stars from other colleges, when assignments were made by the Navy cdicials. As this is written, only three players with any experience on major college teams have reported for workouts. These are Vic Kulbitsld, first string fullback at Minn­esota last year; Verlie Abrams, a Mis­souri g^uard; and John Perko, a Minne­sota guard. Julius Bykovich, one of the leading members of the Illinois freshman team last fall has also reported and has made a fine impression on the coaching staff. 
Seven lettermen from the 1942 Notre Dame squad are available this season. They are Capt. Pat Filley, John Yona­kor, Bemie Meter, Jim White, Zig Czar­obski, Paul Limont, and Angelo Ber­telli, the latter being the only first stringer from last year's squad. Others who saw some action last season, and who have returned to school, are Frank Szymanski, John Adams, John Zilly, and Ed Krupa. 
An entirely new policy regarding road trips for games this fall has had to be formulated, since the Navy does not grant more than 48 hours leave, and then only if a boy is keeping up to his academic requirements and has not com­piled too many demerits. Because of this ruling, the traditional Army game trip has been cut to a one-day stay in New York, with the team leaving South Bend Friday afternoon, arriving before game time on Saturday and leaving late that same night. Most of the other trips will be of one-day duration only. 
Coach Leahy is this year faced with the added task of rebuilding his entire team during the middle of the season. Immediately following the current sem­ester, which closes on Oct. 29, four key members of the team will be transferred from Notre Dame. These are Capt. Pat FOOTBALL TICKET PHEFERENCE 
In the absence o{ a financial cam­paign as yet for the year 1943-44. the Athletic Association has graci­ously consented to recognize the roster of donors to the Centenary Fund as a proper list oi alumni to whom Hdcet preferences, with the customary restrictions, will be ex­tended for this fall. 
Filley, Angelo Bertelli, Vic Kulbitsld and Verlie Abrams. Starting the second half of the schedule, the teams will have to be rebuilt to take care of these heavy losses. 
Although it is pretty early to do any predicting, from what is known of the players on the basis of their past per­formances, we might venture a guess as to the starting lineup. At ends, Paul Limont and Jack Zilly appear to have the edge; the starting tackles probably will be Jim White and Zig Czarobski; Capt. Filley and Bemie Meter or Joe Signaigo appear to have the guard posts well in hand, although John Perko and Verlie Abrams may wind up as first team men after learning the new Notre Dame system. Szymanski of Detroit, a substitute on the squad last year, has the inside track for the center position. 
In the backfield, Bertelli will again handle the quarterback duties, with George Terlep, a first-year man from Elkhart, Ind., understudying him. John­ny Lujack, a sophomore back of good possibilities, who can do many things better-than-average, will handle the left halfback spot, and also will be used at quarterback to relieve Bertelli. It is highly possible that Lujack may inherit Bertelli's position when the latter is transferred. Bob Kelly, a freshman back from Chicago, who has shown flashes of fine kicking, will probably handle right halfback. Fullback appears to be well settled, with Vic Kulbitsld, the former Minnesota regular, well en­trenched. He will receive a battle for the job from Rykovich, the Illinois fresh­man of last year. 
Coach Frank Leahy will be working with one of the smallest staffs in the recent history of the school. Ed HcKee­ver, backfield coach, who handled the team last year when Frank was absoit, is again back, as is Ed "Moose" Krans^ who will work with the line. A new­comer to the coaching staff this year, but no newcomer to Notre Dame alumni, is Hugh Devore, co-captain of the 1933 team. Devore returns to Notre Dame after serving an apprenticeship as assist­ant to Jimmy Crowley at Fordham, assistant to Ank Scanlan at Holy Cross and a three-year term of duty as head coach at Providence. He will coach the ends and assist Kranse with the line. 
The outlook for the 1943 season is any­thing but bright. Notre Dame faces the toughest schedule it has ever faced, topped by four service teams. Army and Navy are reputed to he harboring the best teams they have had in years. Iowa Seahawks will again be strong, and Great Lakes never has had anything bnt a topnotch aggregation. Michigan this year promises to be as strong as any team in the nation, having gained a num­ber of outstanding players with national reputations in the Navy assignment of men to its naval training schooL North­western rates high in the minds of the midwestem football experts. Not much is known of Pittsburgh and Georgia Tech, but Clark Shaughnessy and Bill 
BoMbcdl Coadi Ida KliB* 

Alexander can be counted on to have 
representative teams. Illinois and Wis­consin will be typical Big Ten elevens, so no more need be said. 
1943 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
Sept. 25—Pittsbureli at Pittsburgh Oct. 2—Georgia Tech at Notre Dame Oct. 9—^Michigan at Ann Arbor Oct 16—^Wisconsin at Madison Oct. 23—Illinois at Notre Dame Oct 30—^Navy at Cleveland Nov. 6—^Army at New Yorlc Nov. 13—Northwestern at Evanston Nov. 20—^lovia Prc-Flight School at Notre Dame Nov. 25—Thanksgiving Day, Great Lakes at 
Comiskcy Park, Chicago. 
BASEBALL 

Notre Dame's summsr baseball team, composed of 14 members of the naval V-12 program, opened its season on July 31, defeating the Bunker Hill Naval Air Station of Peru, Ind., by an 8-5 score. Coach Jake Kline has five members of the spring varsity back this summer as a nucleus for his nine, including Tommy Sheehan, catcher; Jim and Tom Carlin, and Bob Klein, infielders; and Angelo Bertelli, outfielder. In addition, he has several good players who enrolled at Notre Dams in July as trainees. Among this number is Andy Phillip, former Illinois basketball and baseball star, who is a member of the Marine Reserve. Phillip will do the brunt of the pitching this summer. All games are scheduled for wesk-ends and the program is de­signed to provide recreation for the members of the V-12 school. 
The rest of the schedule, as arranged when this was written: 
Aug. 7—^Fort Custer at Notre Dame 
Aug. 15—Fort Custer at Fort Custer 
Aug. 21—Bunker Hill N. T. S. at Notre Dame 
Aug. 22—Camp Freeman at Notre Dame 
Aug. 29—Great Lakes at Notre Dame 
HELP WAR PRISONERS 

Norb F. Skelley, '25, 109 N. Santa Fe Ave., Salina, Kans., is lending active assistance to Most Rev. Frank A. Thill, D.D., bishop of Concordia, in attending to the needs of the German war prison­ers who are held at Camp Phillips, Kans. 
Norb says that the prisoners need German prayer books; German-English dictionaries; German-English language textbooks; books on philosophy and sci­ence; magazines, old and/or new. 
Will those who have any such material, and are willing to contribute it to a laud­able cause, mail it to Norb at once? 
RECAPITULATION. CENTENARY FUND 
FINAL BEPOBT 
Class Gifts to Aug. 1. 1943 
Year  Number in (lass  Number of Contributors  Percentage of Contributors  Amount  
Pn^r to  1891  37  14  .38  S  753J)0  
1890  9  5  SS  I65J)0  
1891  .  .  5  2  .40  7.50  
1392  9  3  .333  55.00  
1893..  .  .. ._  13  3  .23  1.150.00  
1894  10  4  .40  36.00  
1895  24  5  .21  137.00  
1893  .  .  14  3  .214  45.00  
1897  10  6  .60  1.770.0D  
1893  13  3  .23  1.110.00  
1899  10  1  .10  25.00  
190n  ..  ._.  12  5  .42  140.00  
im i  17  7  .41  1,05500  
lanz  25  10  .40  517.00  
1903  21  8  .38  115.00  
laad  34  16  .47  2.815X0  
1905  15  7  .466  705.00  
1906  37  12  .324  20.352.00  
1907  24  12  .50  630.00  
1908  33  15  .455  341X0  
1909  31  13  .42  811.00  
1910  27  12  .444  1,177.00  
1911  _.  ­ 67  28  .42  1,581.50  
1912  .  44  19  .43  4,827X0  
1913_ _  62  22  .33  3.59600  
1914  B7  19  .284  529X0  
1915  67  28  .42  384.00  
191G .  71  32  .45  868X0  
1917.._  108  36  .333  3.230X0  
1918  61  28  .46  4.624.00  
1919  48  19  .396  3.518X0  
1920  83  34  .41  729.00  
1921  94  26  .277  485.60  
1922  150  59  J2 7  3.450.24  
1923  182  66  .363  1.273.00  
1924  208  63  .303  863.50  
1925  289  90  .31  2.399.00  
192R  326  94  .288  2X7000  
1927  318  95  .30  1.469.20  
1928  414  104  .25  1.499X5  
1929.  318  96  .30  3.29850  
1930  444  127  .286  1.234.80  
1931  ...  427  139  .325  1.723X0  
1932  532  134  .25  1 045.50  
1933  422  137  J 2  852J0  
1934.___  426  125  .293  2,125X8  
1935  .  452  117  .259  1.969.33  
1936  443  160  .36  1.344.50  
1937  .  472  108  .228  892.50  
1938.  ..  ­  565  166  J O  2.473.00  
19.39  606  230  .38  1.759.15  
1940  .  695  267  .384  2.997.20  
1941  .  688  273  .40  6X15.45  
1942  512  223  .435  889X0  
1943  ..  323  77  .24  496.50  
1944.  . .  1  2X0  
I94S  2  325X0  
Subsciibeis,  Elected  and  Clubs  52  5.762.93  
Totals  10.414*  3.462  .332  $107,424.13  

* .y*".'^ represents the number of alumni (excluding the religious) who were asked to 
contribute to the Centenary Fund. (Ssc ftoiy on page 4 and contritatton lut bcsinninc on page 37) 
« 4C «
ALUMNI CLUBS 
CAPITAL DISTRia 
Luke F. Kelly, '35, 204 OnUrio St , Albanr. Pres.; Walter A. O'Brien, *31. Ill Benson St., Albany, Sec 

Walt 0*Brian writes that, despite a cut in membership from 70 or 80 to about 15, the club is maintaining its organization. The following officers were elected at a gathering in the Uni­versity Club, Albany, on May 3 : Luke Kelly, president; Jack Loritsdi, vice-president; Walter O'Brien, secretary-treasurer. Because even its current small membership is restricted by gas rationing, swing shifts and other war items, the club was unable to plan a Communion-break­fast on Universal Notre Dame Communion Sun­day. 
Walt continues: "In addition to the new officers, the following were present at the meet­ings: John Campbell, now vice-president of the First IVust Co., Albany: Jack Hnethcr, one of the important younger executives around G. £L in Schenectady; Eddie Eckert, who is with his dad in business and doing very ^vell; Brolhers Quen­tin and Eric; C.S.C., of the faculty of Vincen­tian High School. Albany, and Ed Kenefake. The club Irishes to thank Ed and the other outgoing officers for a fine job. 
"Among those missing from the meeting were sucb stalwarts as Tom Dollard, who was pre­vented from attending at the last minute; Jack and BUI Casazza, pressure of business. Jack Rain­cy, Len Horan, Jfie Conlon and Frank Disney." 
CLEVELAND 
John J. Reidy, *27, 1204 Guardian BIdff.. Pre*.; Jon Beljon,* 30, 11805 Cromwell Ave,, Sec 

Cleveland Notre Dame alumni are again proud of the honor that has teen bestowed on one of its most loyal members. Thomas F. Byrne, *28. As president of the Cleveland Club Notre Dame alumni in •32-*33 Tom established many prece­dents with his successful innovations and ideas. We feel sure that with his love for Notre Dame being what it is, Tom will top all expectations in his new capacity. 
This is the second time such honor has come to a Cleveland Notre Dame alumnus. John P. Murphy held this office in 1924-25. He is now a member of the Board of I*ay Trustees of the University. Other local officers of the national Alumni Association are Clayton G. Leronx and 
J. P. Canny who are both lieutenant governors. 
Jack Reidy, our president, has conceived the idea of a Clavelnnd Club News Letter to keep the men in the service better informed of the fortunes of other Notre Damers and vice versa; a letter will go out once a month or oftener de­pending en the response. We are hoping that the relatives back home wil! forward these letters. 
Fred Payne just got his ensign commission through 0-V (S), but hasn't been assigned yet. . . . Frank is an ensign, through D-V (P). . . . Matt Payne is in the ground crew. Air Corps, eng div., but because of ill health is still teaching at Case. . . . Gene Kane was at Miami Beach at CCS, is now at Bowling Green for further train­ing. . . . Dick Tupta, Frank Waldeck and Rercie Flynn are in the Army Enlisted Reser\-e Corps together some place. Where? Ensigns through V-7 are Chuck Kane, Ed Wcinfartner. Vie Golyasay, Joe Prokop and Bob Coleman—but where? Ed Reidy, Marine air pilot, was home recently sport­ing his commission. His brother Dick is in too. Frank McGroder is a lieutenant in the Army. . . . Bob Stack is in. 
Frank Donahue is a lieutenant in the Army. Bob Mazanec's fiancee visited him at Fort Sam Houston, Texas, where he's an Infantry lieuten­ant. . . . Bob Butler is at the same place, a lieu­tenant in the cargo unit of the Navy. . . . Bill Mazanec is a seaman, 2nd class, at Great Lakes. . . . Jero' Reidy finished up at OCS at Miami Beach. Now at Chanute Held. III., a lieutenant in the mess squadron. . . . 
Father Jim Moran, a chrplain. was at Har­vard, was just home on furlough. .. . Jade Collins is in the Judge Advocate's Div. in Wash­ington. . . . Dr. Mike Crawford's a lieutenant at William Beaumont General Hospital. El Paso, Texas. . . , Capt. John Viktoryn is a doctor at Robins Field, Warner Robins. Ga. Joe Heimann's a captain in the Med. Corp. some place. . . . Phil Prendergast just went into lA again. .. . Jim Dnbbs, a tech. sgt. in Alaska, up and married an Oregon gal. .. . 
Tom (Cadillac) Byrne's brother Bob is work­ing for Marine Capt. Bob Hickman in the South Pacific. . . . Father M. L. Moriatity was elected honorary president of the Cleveland alumni, and Father Bemie Blatt. chaplain. . . . Doc Cy Cald­well is a lieutenant some place. .. . Lt. Gcorse Smythe of the Cleveland police recently went through an alley window into a d rk room and overpowered an ex con who had just raped and killed a five-year-old girl. .. . In town are Henry Paradis with the Wage and Hour Div., Fiank Dittoe, in the legal dept. same branch, Chet Rice with WPB, Frank Steel, with the federal D.A. 
Frank Andrews is back in town, but is now in the hospital with a broken leg. . . . John Begley, in Air Corps, was elected as rep. of his class at OCS. . . . Gene Sawicki is with the U.S. Internal Revenue dept. . . . His brother Ed is a state representative. . . . Frank Svoboda was married recently and is now working in the OCD for the gov't in Dayton. . . . His father is a state repre­sentative. . . . Jim Devitt is still in the county engineer's office. At a recent testimonial dinner in his tehalf. hundreds were turned away. .. . 
Cy Matthews works nights at the Cleveland Pneumatic Tool. . . . John J. Hillebrand, now an M.D., is back in Cleveland and was married re­cently. . . . Dr. Ed W. Lakner is so busy he can't take time out for a vacation. . . . Chock Rohr, head of the Restaurant Assoc, of Cleveland, is in a huddle about the meat situation. . . . Al Gris3n:i and Joey Gavin visited with Frank Leahy who was in town recently about the Navy-Notre Dame game next Oct. 30. . . . 
Ed "DOB" White, classmate of Tom Byrne, is in town on a panel discussion of Nat'l Labor Relations and U.S. Civil Service. . . . Otie Win­chester is nov.-a "warbler" in the Seminary choir. .. . Ed Blatt and Georse Blatt, brothers of our chaplain, (assistant pastor. Our Lady of Peace Church) are with the Eaton Mfg. Co.. the former in the personnel office and the latter in the pro. duction. . . . Fr. Ed Seward, who was in the recent African Campaign, is now in England. 
Jon Belj«n 

DELAWARE 
Jaloi J. Vcrhnic, '35, 1 Liacabi Ave. Tu ­cd* Paric DcL, Pmu; Walter J. Gardcsp '42. 
31» W. 34th St., WifaKiiwtoii. Sec 

T*a Desnma, *42. has been transferred from, the Analytical Division of the Jackson Labora­tory to the Industrial Ibigineerinff Division of ' the daPont Company and is employed at the Deepwater Industries, Deepwater, K. J. 
Jim Batkart, '42, visited Notre Dame ahimni in WilminKton on July 11. Jim is with the Navy Aircraft Factory in Philadelphia. 
Pete Sandrw^ '39, U.S.N., stopped in Wil­mington recently to chat with some of his old friends. 
Dr. W. S. Cakatt, LL.D., '37, has been made assistant chemical director of the Organic Chem­icals Department of the duPont Company in charge of development. 
W. J. Cardea 

DENVER 
Easciie S. Blirfi, 'U, 154* Oneida St. Pres.; 
Jaha F. CmmtU, '23, 2545 CheRy SU Sec 

Lt. Jaha Akalt is at Peterson Held near Colo­rado Springs. Hiere. too, is Don Alexander. Pffc Le«i Archer has been transferred recently to Santa Ana, Calif., from HcOellan Field. USMCs 1st Lt. TaM Barry and USN's Geaiy CawMr have met several times in the South Pacific Capt. Charlie Caaudy is hitting targets in the Mediter­ranean battles leading his dive bombing souadron. Lt. Frank Caaway is at Camp Luis Obispo. Calif. Lt. Taaiaiy Carrisaa recently received his com­mission and apimintment to the Pueblo, Colo., Air Base. AyC Kahert Dee. Jr.. is at Santa Ana. Calif., Army Air Base. Ball Dec is with the Navy Seabees. 
Mbj. Henry J. IHUaa is execotive officer of the 29th General Hospital. Pat DiUan of Castle Rock is aboard one of USN's battleships. Lt. <j.ff.) Jae Dann of Rocky Ford still ffies at the USN Air Base at Los Alamitos, Calif. USHC's Lt. Hcih FairaU is completing special training at New River, N. C. With sincere regret and sorrow we report that Lt Floyd "Dink" Graxier. was killed in an air crash near his base in South Carolina. 
Last we' heard from Lt. Art Gresary of Cknon City, he was at F t George Meade, Md., and ex­pecting a visit from Trinidad's L t Jae Nicra stationed, at nearby Camp Ritchie. Durango's Jerry Hasan is in flight training at Sikeston, Mo. Lt. Harry Lawrence is completing his advanced officers training at Harvard. Pvt Bill Hahancy is at Camp Abbott Ore. 
Gene O'FaUan is at the Naval IVaining Station at Farragut Ida. Jade CMaUey is with the Air Corps at Penn State Teadiers College. Ensicn Ed Owens is at the naval sdiool at Boulder, Colo. Capt Dan PflaaB. with the Chemical Warfare, has returned to Denver on active duty. 1st L t Friix PacliaJML is regimental adjutant of his coast artillery anti-aircraft nnit down in the Carribean. Jack Ryan is at Camp Abbott, Ore. 
Capt Joe l^an has been, made assistant-sroop­commander at Roswdl, N. M., Army Air school. Set Ka» Saha is at Stuttgart. Ark.. Air Base Art Sandnsky-last cheeked in from the Troop Carrier. Command at Stoat Field, Indianapoliiu 
18 
SjSgU Paul Santo is an instructor at Lowry Field, Denver. Set. Fred Sislc of Trinidad has been trans­ferred to Chicago. 
Ray Smith, the Navy's newest secret weapon, is on foreign duty south of the equator. Ensign Bob Stapp flies at Pasco. Wash. Longmont's Joe Stephen is reported to have been with the victori­ous Yanks at Attu. JLt, Tom Tiemey is at Key Field. Miss. USMCs Sgt, John Walsh is on for-eii?n fields again. Ensign Ed Wurtzcbach is at South Brooklyn's Armed Guard Center. 
In victory production war factories: Aircrafter BUI Dick, in Los Angeles; Radar-e.xpert Dave Hidtcy, in San Francisco's shipyards; Contractor Lonie Honcfa, somewhere in'Canada's northlands; Engineer Phil McCarty is south-bound to Brazil; Engineer Leo Bobidoox in Milwaukee; Aircrafter George Starback in Kansas City. 
Here's the N.D.ers from out-of-town who are currently stationed in and around Denver: Louie Alaman, famed drum-major of the '30*s. stationed at Colorado State College, was recently married in Denver. Pf c Charlie Callahan, from N.Y.C.. is at Peterson Field, Colorado Springs. Cleveland's Val Deale is at the Navy school at Boulder. In­diana's Lt. Bill Barton and Jim Fi^er are at LowTy Field. There, too, are: Philadelphia's Bob Corrigan, Detroit's Norm LcLone, Frank Miley; N.Y.C.'s Lt. Bob Scfaroeder. At Denver's Medical Depot is Lt. Bob Crodcett from Wisconsin. Lynch­burg's Ensign Paol Bforrison continues to im­prove at Fitzsimmons General Hospital. Wiscon­sin's AI MuenMA. is at Ft. Logan. N.Y.'s Lt. Harry Pcnrofc is with the mountaineers at two-mile-high Camp Hale. 
Gene Blish 
DETROIT 
John W. Brennan, *27, American Blower Corp., €32 Fbher BIdg.. Pres.; Henry J. Clark, ex. '30. 220 Merrill St., Birmingham, Hini.t Sec* 
The regular meeting of the Notre Dame club 

•was
 held at the Wardell-Sheraton Hotel on June 7, and was dedicated to the Hon. Harrj- F. K&b'* then president of the Notre Dame Alumni Associ­:ation, and governor of the State of Michigan. Chaiies Martin, chairman, recently appointed assistant attorney general of the state, did an 

•excellent
 job of toastmastering and arrangement of speaker talent for this occasion. The Univer­sity was represented by Rev. John Caranangh, Rer. Frank Cavanaach, Jim Armstrong, and Art Haley. The meeting was very well attended bring­ing Charles E. "GM " Dorais, Jay "Biffy" Lee, and J. F. Kenny together for the first time in 30 years. Frank P. Nestor, class of 1S92. was there to pay tribute to Harry. 


The annual Golf Party was held at the Bir­mingham Golf Club, on July 14. 
The chairman was Clarence J. Kaiser, and his committee consisted of John Annas, J. L. Conroy, A. B. Baaer, and H. B. "Bad" Stillman. Fifty members and their guests played. 
AyC Dick Whiting, on leave from Kelly Field, showed the boys the way around by turning in a 
76. The churman won the first prize of the 
Idkkers. Henn' J. Clark 
FORT McCLELLAN. ALA. 
A Notre Dame Club has been organized at Fort McCIellan, under the auspices of the USO Club, <q>erated by the National Catholic Com­mimi^ Service in Anniston, Ala. 
Hie members, who on the first meeting num-Vfe d over 50 soldiers, attended Mass on July 11, which was celebrated at the Third Regimental 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Chapel, at Fort McCIellan, by Msgr. Robert J, Sherry, chaplain of the Station Hospital. Fol­lowing the Mass the men had breakfast in an Anniston hotel. 
The speakers at the breakfast were Col. Mar­tin Meaney, commander of the Internment Camp; Col. George O'Connell, commander of the Sta­tion Hospital; Msgr. Sherry, and Rev. Herman Cazalas. rector of the Sacred Heart Church. John B, McCloskey. director of the NCCS. -was master of ceremonies. 
Following the breakfast the men went to the USO Club, and made recordings of the Notre Dame songs. Records of their voices were sent to Father Hugh O'Donnell, president of Notre Dame, as a tribute from the alumni who were stationed at Fort McCIellan. 
Plans were made at the first meeting to make the organization a live and active one, with fre­quent religious activities. One of the alumni most active in the first meeting was John F. P. Murphy, '-13. of New York Citj*. 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Thomas J. Umphrey, *34, S20 Circle Tower, Pres.; Walter W. Hoappert, *25. 3201 Bonle-Tard Place, Sec 
Ed Kraasc, head basketball coach and football line coach, Hngfa Devore, end coach, and Walt Kennedy, new sports publicity director, were the Notre Dame guests present when the club con­ducted its annual golf party at the Highland Golf and Country Club on July 21. Jack Weldi was the chairman of golf and Walt Stahldreher assist­ed with reservations. 
KANSAS CITY 
Hon. RUMI I Hardy, '16. 919 Cleveland, Kansas City, Kans., Pres.; Vincent W. De-Conrsey, *39, 1321 Georgia, Kansas City, Kans., Sec. 
Big doings at Dr. Nigro's farm in mid-June; about 300 present. Plenty of everything. 
New arrival in town, per Dooley: Dr. Robert Ryan, '38, whom we haven't met yet, but will. He's with the War Shipping Administration. 
Another not-so-new arrival dropped us a note: 
W. H. (Bill) Plncbcl, TWA man who set up the ori^nal ticket office on the campus back around '38 or so. 
Vince DeConney 
PHILADELPHIA 
Hmrold Dike, 'it, 4«3« N. Broad St.. (Uai­cUS »«•, BanoMk 3IS3) Pres.; JoMfk F. Cattle, '41. 63*2 Gardenia St., (Geraan­town 03*8) Sec 
At our last meetir.B the club presented James 
F. Devine of St. Thomas More Catholic High School with the club*s first scholarship to Notre Dame. 
Tlie following committees were selected by our president — Big Brothers: Dick HcClore, Joe Le Strange, Kyle Donnell; Scholarship Fund: James Nolen. Joe Cattie, Joe Wackerman, John Nceson, Jr.; Football Fund: Frank Shapiro, Joe Cattie, Jack ReiUr: Armed Forces: Walt Phillip, Bill Moss, Paul Nowak, Conal Brme ; Advisory: John Neeson, Sr., Dan Yoang, Dr. Toland, Fred Frick, Bill Davy: Ways t Means: Cliff ProMO. Walt Ridley, Bill Cooney, Tom Byrne, Jack Ken­ny: Entertainment: Jack Reilly, Ed Bailey, Joe Mahoney, Dan Balpin, Charles McKinney. 
The University has been awarded a $500 schol­arship fund through the generosity of Charles 
J. Corr, a Philadelphia contractor, th e fund is to be administered by the Philadelphia Club. The club and its officers have hopes of raising this amount to well over the thousand mark. 
Ed Hechan, advertising manager of the "South Bend Trilnine." was a visitor at our last meet­ing, along with Tom Boylan, '31, who told of his experiences at Pearl Harbor during the Jap at­tack of Dec. 7. 
Prayers are requested for the repose of the soul of Margaret Sahlender, mother-in-law* of aiff PndeR '32. 
Joseph F. Cattie 
Dan Young's recent articles on dry dock con­struction have attracted attention in India and London and he has been requested to write addi­tional articles on his methods for London. 
Frank Shapiro, an engineer at the Philadelphia Navy Aircraft factory, is now a proud "poppa." A son. 
Don Sdiettig is a lieutenant (jg) attached to the Navy Yard at Philadelphia. Ed Wrape is an ensign stationed here now. 
Ensign Paul Nowak, married recently, has brought the new bride to Philadelphia. 
Ed Bailey is the new second vice-president of the Alumni Association. Congratulations! Harold Dake 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 
Joseph M. BoUnd, *27, SUtion WSBT. South Ben^ Ind., pres.; Richard C. Kaczmarefc, '4«, 317 Napoleon Blvd., South Bend, Sec. 
C R. (Cappy) Grathwohl, Niles, Mich., was. with a 75, the top golfer among the alumni at the annual golf tournament-dinner of the club on July 21. Originally scheduled for July 14. the party was postponed out of respect to the late Frank E. Hering who was buried on that day. 
Other alumni winners (for golf) were Joe Bsiand, the president; Al McGann. the chair­man of the day; Herb Jones, Elwyn Moore. Leo Hoffman, Frank Bliles, Bernard J. VoU and Con­gressman Rahcrt A, Grant. Gay McMifhirl, pro­fessor-alumnus, shot a 78 to lead the faculty division, followed by Rev. Charles Carey. Rev. George Holderftk, Rev. William Canninghara. Jelin P. Tuvley, James A. BlcCarthy and Rev. James Traiwy. Kenneth Young. South Bend city champion, led the guests with a 73. 
Those who didn't win golf prizes were con­soled by the distribution of approximately 100 attendance prizes. 
WASHINGTON. D. C. 
Leo F. Mdlin, cz. '22, Wardaun Park Hotel. Pres.: Joseph L. Borda, ex. 'SS, 17S4 "P" St., N.W.. Sec 
Father Speer Strahan, '17, an Army chaplain who was at Pearl Harbor during the Japanese attadc, qmke to a group -of 15 who gathered at the Lee House for breakfast on May 2, Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday. Communion at St. Matthew's Choreh preceded the breakfast. 
Leo F. Mallcn, president of the club, recently recovered from a maior operation, arranged the observance. 
HARVAKD COMMUNION BREAKFAST 
Jen y Killisrew, '42, sent a list of the IS Notre Dame men who, on Hay 2, observed the Universal Notre Dame Communion Day with a Communion-breakfast in Cambridge, Mass. They 
were: L t (ig) Robert M. Cahill, '34, Ensign Julian Durbin, '43, and Ensign Dan Holwell. '43, Communications School; Fred Hoover, '42, En­sign William B. Madden, '42, Ensign Coe He­

Kenna. '42. and Jerry KiUigrew of the Supply Corps School; John R. Malone, '42. Donald C. Tiedemann. M2, Vincent R. Shiely, M2, and James Purcell. '42, Harvard Business School; and £n­sign Joseph Champley, '42. and Ensign Boh Heil of the Engineering School. (The ranks, if any, given here were taken from Jerry's letter; some of them have doubtless been changed since he wrote.) 
• The 13 present represented the much larger group of Notre Dame men in attendance at var­ious Harvard schools. The difficulties of notifi­cation and the relatively early hour of the Mass prevented a much larger attendance. 
The Alumni Office in the name of the Asso> elation extends congratulation on a highly laud­able accomplishment. 
ADDITIONAL MILITARY MEN^ 
(Including names received and 

Allen, John F., •42. A/C. U.S. Army Air Corps, Enid Army Flyins School, Enid, Okla. 
Armbnuter. Francis J., ex. '30, Lt., U.S. Army, Box 353, Room 103, Army Medical Center, Washinjrton, D. C. 
Amrfaein, Nicholas C '39, Ensign. USNR. Asmath, James E., '42, Ensign, USNR. Atkins. Thomas L., '43. SIC, U.S. Navy. Co. 344, 
Bks. 250 B. 25th Regt., 41st Btry.. NTS, Great Lakes. 111. 
Baddoar. Edmond F.. '40, Ensign USNR. Navy 
122, c/o Fleet Post OfSce. New York City. Barber John T.. '36, U.S. Navy. Barlow, Adair C, '35, Pvt., U.S. Army. TCRTC. 
Co. A, 1st Bn., NOSA, New Orleans, La. Barrett. John M., '33, Pvt., U.S. Army. "Fight­ing Engineers", Camp Claiborne, La. Banin. William B.. ex. '34, Corp., U.S. Army, 716 MP Bn., Peekskill, N. Y. Bee, Peter A.. '23, OC, Plymouth Hotel, Sqdn. B. Group 12, Miami Beach, Fla. Bchr. John L.. '43, Air Transport Command Band, Camp Luna, N. Mex. 
Biittner, Georce T.. '43. Pvt.. U.S. Army. 402 Tmg. Group, Unit 6, BTC 4, Flight 37, AAF­TTC. Miami Beach, Fla. 
Bjom. Andreas J., ex. '16, Corp., U.S. Army, Fitz­simmons Gen. Hosp., Denver. Colo. Bonjai, William J.. '43, Pvt., U.S. Army, Co. K. 12 GMRTC, T. 338, Camp Lee, Va Bosco, James A., ex. '34, AS, U.S. Navy 747, NTS, Great Lakes, 111. Bonqain. Loais S.. '32, Corp.. U.S. Army, APO 
634, c/o Postmaster, New York City. Brooks. Robert E.. '43, Ensign, USNR.­Brown, William M., '31, APO 40, c/o Postmaster, 
San Francisco, Calif. Baeci. Joseph A.. '35, USHC. Baicess. James G.. '38, Lt., U.S. Army. Hq. Btry.. 
124th Bn., Camp Haan Calif. 
Bams. Edward K., '43, Pvt, AAPACD. Sqdn. C, Flight 14, Texas Technical College, Lubbock, Tex. 
Callahan, Joseph F., '43. Ensign, USNR, NTS. 
Hanover, N. H. CappeBo, Vita W.. '43, In service. Cater. William J., '43, A/S, U.S. Navy, Sq. C, 
16th College Training Detachment, AAO, Nia­gara University, Niagara Falls, N. Y. Carideo. Francis F.. '31, Lt. (ig), USNR. NTS, Quonset Point. R. I. Camer, John D.. '32, Pvt., U.S. Army, Co. I, Reception Center, Camp Devens, Mass. 
Cattail. Charles H., '34, Ensign, USNR. Radio Communications School, NTS, Harvard Univer^ sity, Cambridge, Mass. 
Camll, E. Joseph. '39, Lt.. U.S. Army, 4g4th Bomb Sqdn. (D), Drew Field, Tampa, Fla. Carver, Robert B., '43, Pfc. U.S. Army, 490th 
Q.M. Depot Co. Bks. 1, Camp Mackall, N. C. 
Casey. Bifhatd D,. '39, USNR Midshipmen's School, Kotre Dame, Ind. 
*Name3 are listed here only once—when they are first received by the Alumni Oflice. Changes in military addresses are included in class news. 
 classified up to Aug. 2. 1943) 
Cavanaagh. John J„ Pvt., U.S. Army, Base 
Terminal, Staten Island, N. Y. 
Cawley, James V., ex. '39. Ensign. USNR. 
Cdla, Anthony L., '40, U.S. Navy, Bethpage, 
N. Y. Champley. Joseph P., '43. Ensign. USNR. NTS, A-31 Wigglesworth Hall, Cambridge, Mass. Chtistman, Frederick W.. '43, AS, U.S. Navy, NTS, Co. 529, Great Lakes, III. Clark, Allan J., '43. A/C. USAAC Pre-Flight 
School, Miami Beach, Fla. Cloase. Michael P., Jr., '39, Ensign, USNR. Coco, Carl S., '43, U.S. Army Air Corps, Naviga­
tion Wing Group H. Sqdn A, Ellington Field. Tex. Coira, Louis E., ex. '37, Lt. Col., Sixth Air Force Base, Quarry Heights, C. Z. Coleman, James W.. '27, Capt.. U.S. Army Air Corps, 65th College Training Detachment, Syr­acuse University, Syracuse, N .Y. Comins, Francis H., '41, Ensign, USNR, NTS, Princeton, N. J. Conforti Francis J., '43. USNR Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. Conole. Frank D.. ex. '31, In service. Cooney. Thomas J.. '43, Ensign, USNR, NTS. Hanover, N. H. Correll, Donald B., ex. '46, U.S. Army, Fort Knox, Ky. Corrigan. John R.. '42, U.S. Army Air Force Clerical School. Fort Logan, Colo. Corrigan, Robert, '43, Pfc, U.S. Army Air Forces. St. Petersburg, Fla. Cotton, Waller R., '39. T/Sgt.. U.S. Army Air Corps, 458th Bomb Sqdn., Biggs Field, El Paso, Tex. Coyle, Edward F., e-x. '29, Dental Clinic AAFTS, Dodge City Army Air Field, Kansas. Crongeyer, George W., '28, Lt., U.S. Army, 1055th 
Q.M. Co., 80th Service Troup, Lakeland Army Air Field. Lakeland, Fla. Cronin. Bernard J., '34, Lt.. U.S. Army. AFO 85, c/o Postmaster, Los Angeles, Calif. Cronin, William C , ex. '35, T/5, U.S. Army, Finance Dept., Wake Forrest College, N. C. Crowley, Francis W., '26, Pvt., U.S. Army, Ham. mer Field, Fresno, Calif. Cnlligan, Jerome S., '31, 2nd Lt., U.S. Army, Area 5, Prod. Div., Pine Bluff Arsenal, Ark. Cnllinan, George E., Jr.. '32, U.S. Army. Camp Upton, N. Y. Cummings. Edward C. '43, U.S. Army, Camp S%vift, Tex. Cunningham, Edward F., ex. '29, Lt., USNR, c/o Fleet Post Office, New York City. 
Curran. John J., '31, Casual Co., SCU 1967, Camp Haan, Te-x. 
Daly, David J., '43, U.S. Army Air Corps. 
Davis. Arthur G.. '39, Corp., U.S. Army, Head­
quarters Co., Camp Croft, N. O. 
Davis, Edward F., '43, Ensign, USNR. 
Davis, John H., ex. '37, A/C, U.S. Army Air 
Corps, Sqdn. D, Croup E, 64th AAFFTD, Cam. 
den, S. O. 
Dee, Delmati J., Jr., ex. '42, 2nd Lt., USMC. 
Defever, Cyril R.. ex. '29. Lt , USNR, Taeoma 
Shipbuilding Corp., Tacoma, Wash. 
Dd Zamm. AKeit J.. '41, Armed Guard School. Gulfport, lOss. DcTla*. Davil W,. '42. Ensign. USNB. e/o Fleet 
Post Office, San Franeisea CaUf. DeViics, Daaiel A^ '43. 11.5. Army Air Corps. DMMSai^ Ewl C '43. Y30. 1T.a. Navy. Are* Bt 
Beplaeement. Camp Peary. Williamsburg. Va. DoBBclIy. GcMse P., ex. '34, In service. Deandly. WWaa A^ '39, Pfc, V.S. Aimr, APO 
77, e/o Poetmaster, IiM Anseles, Gdif. D«Mvaa. Pa d K , '39. SZC. Co, 1570. QJf. SehooL 
NTS, Newport, K. L D—ran. FhOi* IL. '26, ILS. Navy. Deuaa. Call WW '38. U.. TT-S. Anny ^r Foteea 
Combat Crew Sdmol, Wth TEFT, Sqdn., Aimr Air Field, Fort Worth, Hex. Dsatel. PiednlA C '43. Pvt. U.S. Amy. St Petersbntx, Fla. Deve. Ratett L,. '43, U.S. Marine Corps. Fanli Island. S. C. 
Dewd. Ratect E,. '41. Pvt. U.S. Army, Hdqs. Det. cure. Bed Kver Ordnance Depot, 'Kxaikaaa. Tex. 
BtmeduT, HaraH J., '37. Buign. USNB. Alsiers Naval Base. AGO. New Orleans, La. Daley. BAert J., ex.'42, A/C. USNB, Naval Mt Training Center, Corpns Christi. Tex. Daraaa. Jeha K , '43. U9NB Midshipmen's Sdiaol, Notre Dame. Ind. Danaa. BayiMad B,. '43, USNB MidsUpaen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. Daqaette. Gearge IL. '32, Sgt, V.S. Army, C-t-2. FARC Fort Bragg. N. C. 
Daahvy. Jaha T„ '43. A/C. USNB. Cadet Pla­toon Commander, Iowa Pre-^gfat Sdiool. Iowa City, Iowa. 
Daalay. Ratert J,. '43, Ensign, USNR. Daihia. Keaacth J... '31. L t (jg). USNR. Navy 8145, e/o FDstmaster. San Francisco. Calif. Dratak. WiUaa F,. '43, Kisign. USNB. NTS. TopIifT Ball. Banover, N. H. 
Edwatda, Jaha R., '35. 1st Lt . U.S. Array. AC. Hq. ASF. AFO 625. Miami. Fla. EMer. Ihaau* J.. '38. AAF School of Applied Tactics. Orlando. Fla. Eadehart. Fraderidk C . '43, Ensign. U9NB. 
FaOer. Gerald M.. '39. OC, AAAS, Btry. 15, Pin. 4, CUnp Davis, N. C. FarreD. Edward C '39. Ensign. USNB. NTS, Great Lakes, HI. Fcaraa. Jaha J„ '43, USNR Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. Fehlig, Eaceae A.. '43, USNB, Hldahipnen's School, Notre Dame. Ind. Flaacsac^ Themas F,, '43. Bisign. USNB. NTS, Hanover, N. H. FiAer. WOUaBi J.. '43, USNB MidsUpmen's 
School, Notre Dame, Ind. Fisk, Gearge C ex. '43, Pfc, U.S. Amqr Air Corps, Am y Air Base, Salt Lake City, Utah. mm, duties jr.. 'S3. Lt (ig). USNB. Ship's Ca. 
Camp Bradford. Va. Fitch. Gail H , '43, Ensign USNB, NTS, Hanorcr. 
N. H. Fitzpatridc, Fraada B,. '43, Ensign, USNB, Aati-Aircraft TVaining Center. Shell Beach. Fla. Fiti»atrid[. Jaatph V„ ex.'29, Lt . USNB. Navy 128, e/o Fleet Post Office; San Frandaeo, CUif. Flaaigaa, Jaha IL, ex. '46. Pvt, IJJS. Aimr. 418th TG, Flight F, BTC 4, Miami Beadi. Fla. Flaaaery, WilHaai E.. '36, Corp., U.S. Army. APO 913. e/o Postmaster, San Frandaeo, CaBf. 
Frank. WUUaat C '34, Znd Lt. Sgnal SeetioB, Air Service Command. Oklahoma City Air Depot. Tinker Field. Oklahoma CSty. Okla. 
Gahriel. Laaia T,. '3«. Major. U.S. Array Medical Corps. 4th Amored Best. Ckmp Chaffee. JLA. Gaiaer, Jeraae D.. '43. Kuign. USNB. Tiiliraiiliii 
Chaser Tifaining-Center. Mtaaii, Fla. Gaaa. RaMih IL; '43. U;»IR School, Notre Dame. Ind. 
Gariand, Haarfce J.. '34, Lt.. U.S. Army Air 
Corps, Patterson Field, Fairfield, O. Garry. Gerard J., ex. '37, U.S. Army Air Forces. Gibhoni, JoMph W., '43, Pvt. U.S. Army, Co. F, 
1st Sig. Tme. Rest., Fort Monmouth. N. J. Gillespie, William P., '36, Ensien, USNR. 927 
Stadium Way, Tacoma, Wash. Gillette, Robert E., '43 USNR. Giorcio, Herbert P., '32, F\-t., U.S. Army, 4th 
Ree. Co., M. Bn., Camp Upton. N. Y. Girard, James A^ '43, Ensign. USNR, NTS, Han­over, N. H. Gore Frederick P., '43, Ensign, USNR, NTS, Han­
over, N. H. Gottran, Harry P., Jr., '41, Ensign. USNR. Graies, Thomas J., '38, 1st. LL, U.S. Army, Phil­
adelphia Q.M. Depot. 2800 S.—20th St., Philadel­phia, Pa. GriSin, Emmet D,, '42, A/C. U.S. Army. Pampa Army Air Base, Pampa, Tex. Gririn, John J., '43. PVt., U.S. Army, Btry. A, 
14th Bn.. FARTC, Fort Bragg, N. C. Grogan, John P., '43, tn service. Gniney, Daniel J., '43, U.S. Army, Hq. & Hq. Co., 
2nd Bn., 347th Inf., Camp McCain, Miss. 
Hackett. John W., Jr., '40, A/C, USNR, 12th College Training Detachment, Teachers State College, Johnson City, Tenn. 
Harrincton. Rev. John J., CS.C, '29, Chaplain, 
U.S. Army, APO 629, c/o Postmaster, New York City. Heil, Robert J., '42, Ensign, USNTl, NTS, Na\-y Engineering School, Cambridge, Mass. 
Heinzen, Anthony C, '41, Corp.. U.S. Army, New Castle Army Air Base, 344th A.B. Sq., Wil­mington, Del. 
Heiser, Carl K., '43, USNR Midshipmen's School. New York City. 
Hellmnth, Andrew L., '36, Lt„ U.S. Army Air Corps. Co. F, 1st SAW Tmg. Bn.. Drew Field. Tampa. Fla. 
Heltzel, Donald T., '43, USNR Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame. Ind. Henke. Tlieadare VL, ex. '42. Lt.. U.S. Army Air Corps. Henney, 'Thamas E., '43. A/S. USNR. 42nd CTD. c/o Sqdn. B, Flight 2. Mary\-ille. Tenn. Hoctor, JoHph F., ex. '37. Lt.. U.S. Army, Co. 
C,872 AB Eng, Westover Field, Mass. Holieran, F. Joseph, ex. '22, Lt. Comdr.. USNR. Holwell, Daniel E., '43. Ensign. USNR. 52 Mat­
thews Hall. NTS. Cambridge. Mass. 
Royt, John A., '33. U.S. Army Air Forces. Inter­nal Security Section. 67 Broad St., New York City. 
HuElies, Edwin J., Jr., '39, Pfc.,U.S. Army. Hdqs. Area, 1610 RRC, Bks. 123. Camp Grant. III. Hnnt, John D., '43. P\t.. U.S. Army. 235th Q.M. Co.. Camp Sutton. N. C. Button, Robert H., '42. Ensign USNR, Amphibi­ous Training Base. Little Greek. Va. 
Jaskoski, Benedict J., '42. Ensign. USNR, NTS, 
Great Lakes, HI. Jenkins, Clarence W., ex. '34, In ser\'ice. Jerry, Vincent L., '43, U.S. Navy-Johnion. William C, '43, USNR, Midshipmen's 
School, Notre Dame. Ind. 
Kamensky, Robert V., ex. '34. Pvt. U.S. Army. Air Force Command. Chemical Warfare, Shep­pard Held, Tex. 
Kearney, James J., '31, Lt., USCG, NTS. Colum­bia University. New York City. Kecler, Georxe L , ex. '40. A/S. U.S. Navy. Co. 
823. NTS. Great Lakes. III. Keen, E. Clark. '40, U.S. Navy, Bath Iron Works, 
Bath, He. Keller. Frederidc W., '43, USNR. KeUey, James W.. e-x. "42, USMC. Platoon 380. 
Recruit Depot, Marine Barracks, Parris Island, 
S. C. 
Kell}-, Albert P., '41, A/C, USNR, Naval Air Training Center, Corpus Christi, Tex. Kelly, John C '38, Brooksville Air Base, Brooks-
ville, Fla. Kempf, Kenneth R., '43, Corp., U.S. Army, Co. . G, 804 STR, Bks. 4, Camp Crowdcr, Mo. Kenkel, John L., '33, S/Sgt., U.S. Army. Killoren, Eugene F., '30, Sgt., U.S. Army. Kirby, Charles J., '42, A/C, USNR, Naval Air 
Corps. Chapel Hill. N. C. Klein, Howard A., '40, Ensign. USNR. Knapp, WiUiam H., '30, U.S. Army Signal Corps, 
Fort Monmouth, Red Bank, N. J. Koehkr, Harry F., '37, Pvt., U.S. Army, Btry. C, 796th AAA (AW) Bn., Camp Stewart, Ga. Kowalsky, Paul L., e.x. '40, A/S. USNR. V-6. NTS. Great Lakes. III. Kramer, WilUam P., '41 2nd Lt.. U.S. Army Air Corps. Carlsbad Army Air Field. Carlsbad. 
N. Mex. Kuehl, Russell C , '29. Major. U.S. Army, Russell-ville, Ky. Knhn, Adrian A., ex. '41, OC, U.S. Army, Chemi­cal Warfare OCS, Edgewood Arsenal, Md. Kunkel, Francis L., '43. USNR Midshipmen's School. Notre Dame. Ind. 
Kuntz, WiUiam J.. '41. A/C. RCAF 5, SFIS. Brantford. Ontario. Canada. 
Lanahan, John F., '43, Lt., USMC. 31st ROC. Co. 
E. Quantico, Va. Langlcv, WiUiam F., '38 Pfc. U.S. Army, 78th 
Airdrome Sqdn.. Hunter Field. Sa\*annah, Ga. Langhna, John P., '32. Lt.. In service. Leonard, Paul T., '43. Pvt, U.S. Army, 707th 
Trng. Group, Sqdn. A, Atlantic City, N. J. Leonas, Theodore J., '40, Pvt. U.S. Army, Camp Grant. III. Ley, Murray H., '30, S/Sgt., U.S. Army, Fort Lawton, Wash. Lies, Mark J., '43, Ensign, USNR, cjo Atlantic 
Fleet Fbst Office, New York City. Linton, Francis L., '34, Capt, U.S. Army. Love, Gordon A., ex. '41, In ser\'ice. LoWer, WiUum M., '43, Pvt, U.S. Army, T 1706, 
Btrj". B, 13th Bn., Fort Eustis, Va. 
MacCaaley, John S., '41, Pvt. U.S. Army. 901 Trng. Group. Sqdn. 13. Flight B. BTC 9, AAF­TTC. Miami Beach. Fla. 
Magnire, Donald F., '41. U.S. Navy. Co. 4, NTS. 
Camp Dewey, Great Lakes, 111. Maher, James J., '43, In service. Maher, Thomas D., '43, Corp., U.S. Army, Co. C, 
72nd Bn., 15th Regt., Camp Robinson, Ark. Mahon, William R., '43, USNR Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. 
MaUoy. Paul M., '43, Prt., U.S. Army, Troop I. 3rd Sqdn.. 2nd Trng. Regt.. BKE 2471C RTC, Fort Riley, Kans. 
Malloy, Wi'Jiam M., ex. '35, U.S. Na\T. Maloney, Anthony J., '43, USNR Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. Mara, Joseph F., '43, U.S. Army. Fort Monmouth. 
N. J. 
Marcuet, WiUiam G., '38, Lt. U.S. Army. Co. B. 1st Btry.. 1st Trng. Regt.. Shenango. PRD. Shenango, Pa. 
Mariano, Joseph A., Jr., '29, Sgt, U.S. Army, APO 77, c/o Postmaster, Los Angeles, Calif 
Marlow, Howard H., '43, Pfc, U.S. Army, Det, Finance Dcpt, Air Corp Technical School, Keesler Field, Miss. 
Marr, John H., '37, Ensign, USNR. Martine, Jay B., '43, AAFTC, North Carolina State College, Raleigh, N. C. Matson, Joseph A., '42, A/C, AAF. Pre-Flight School, Maxwell Held, Ala. Matthews, Edward E., '40, Pvt., U.S. Army, Co. 
C. 5th Trng. Bn.. Camp Wheeler. Ga. Matns, Walter J., ex. '35. Pvt. U.S. Army, 401st Trng. Group. BTC 4. Miami Beach. Ha. 
McCarthy, Thomas L. ,'37. Lt. U.S. Army, 1402 IM Co.. Army Air Base, Santa Maria, Calif. 
McCarthy. WiUUm P., '38, Ensign, USNR, NTS­(I), 41043, Fort Schuyler, Bronx, N. Y. McCormick. Nevin F., '38. Lt. (jg), USNR. NTS, Newport. R. 1. McGoTcm, John J., Jr.. '39, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, New London, Conn. HeGawan, WiUiam A.. '43, USNR Midshipmen's 
School, Notre Dame, Ind. HcGrccdy, Tlloraas J.. '43, In service. Hdnemey, James L., Jr., ex. '41, 2nd Lt., 
USHCR. McKenna, Coe A., '42, Ensign, USNR, Naval 
Supply Corps School, Cambridge, Mass. HcKeon, John J.. '43, U.S. Army. McLawUin, Robert V., '41, L t (jg), USNR, c/o 
Fleet Post Office, San Francisco, Calif. 
McManas, Raymond J., '43, Pvt, U.S. Army, Co. B, 38th Hed. Trng. Bn., 4th Platoon, Camp Grant, III. 
McNally. Joseph C '37, Ensign, USNR, Armed Guard School, 52nd S t & First Ave., Brtxiklyn, 
N. Y. 
McNaUy. WOliam H., '37, 2nd Lt, 304th Hghter Sqdn., Pinellas Army Air Field, S t Petersburg, Ha. 
Head. Raymond J., ex. '23, Lt, Engineering Of­ficer,-APO 4524, c/o Postmaster, New York City. Helton, Herbert S., '43, U.S. Navy, NTS, Dc-
Pauw University, Greencastle, Ind. Hetxccr; Charles J., '39, Ensign, USNR, NTS, Fort Schuyler, Bronx, N. Y. Hefcwer, John B., '43, Ensign. USNR, NTS(I), 
21056, Fort Schuyler, Bronx, N. Y. MihoUch Godfrey V„ '43, U.S. Navy. Hilboara, Easene F.. e.x. '39, Pfc, U.S. Army, 
502 Training Group, Sqdn. 8, BTC 5, Keams, 
Utah. Hikm, Dallas A., '43, U.S. Army. HiOer. Donald J., '43, Ensign, USNR, Naval Com­
munications School. NTS, Harvard University. Cambridge. Mass. Hillett. Babert M., '43. A/S. U.S. Nai-y. V-6. SU. Co. 332. Great Lakes. III. Hillncr Wayne V., '36. Lt (jg). USNR. NTS. Hanover, N. H. Mitisv. J«hn F., '29. 2nd Lt. U.S. Army. Camp Barkeley. Tex. Hokny, William R., ex. '25. L t Comdr.. MC. USNR. Hotter. Sannel E., '43. USNR Midshipmen's School. Notre Dame. Ind. 
Bloran, James D., '42. Pvt, U.S. Army, Co. B. 24th Officers Candidate Class, MB, Quantico, Va. Haritz, Peter F., '43, Ensign, USNR, NTS, Han­
over, N. H. Hoylon. Junes H. M., ex. '41, JAGD, APO 696, c/o Postmaster, New York City. *"n*y. Edward F., '41, Lt, USNR, c/o Fleet Post Office, San Francisco, Calif. 
Harphy. WillUm F., '33, MM2/C, Bks. 3, Dorm. 3, Cot 37, Treasure Island. San Francisco, Calif. H«rray, James F., '43. U.S. Army, Fort Mon­
mouth, N. J. Harrin, WiUiam Z., !43, Pvt, U.S. Army, Hq. Btry. S58th C.A. Bn. (A.A.), Camp Davis, N. C. 
Nash. Jamea H., ex. '44, Pvt.. U.S. Army, Co. H. Barracks 6, Reception Center, Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind. 
Neraey, James K., '38. Ensign, USNR. Nesbit, Robert J.. '33, Sgt, U.S. Army Signal Corps. Newland. Jamas G., '41, Pvt, U.S. Army. Co. 
M-3, 7th QJf. Trng. Regt, Camp Lee, Va. Newman, James E., ex. '44. In service. NicacT. Bernard H., '37, Ensign, USNR, Anti-
Aircraft Training Center, Pacific Beach, Calif. Nonis. Joseph T., '43, A/S. U.S. Navy, Co. 325. NTS, Sampson. N. Y. Nmier, Donald E., ex. '43. U.S. Army Hying School, Altns, Okla. 
O'Brien. waUam K., '43. U.S. Army, 774 TSS Sp.. I«wry Held, Denver, Colo. 

O'Connor, John J.. Jr., ex. '36, U.S. Navy, c/o Fleet Fostoffice, San Francisco, Calif. O'Harc. WilUam G., '40. Pfc, U.S. Army, Hq. Co., SCU 1112, Fort Devens, Mass. 
Oliver. Alfred R., '43, U.S. Army, Company Clerk, Sqdn. C, 36th Tmg. Group. Jefferson Barracks, Ho. 
Olvany, William J., '43. USNR. O'Halley, John D., '43, USNR Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. 
O'Neil. Grarxe M., Jr., '39, Ensign, USNR, U.S. Naval Section Base, Tompkinsville, S.I., N. Y. O'Toole, Charics R.. '23, Major, U.S. Army En­
• gineers. O'Toole, John K., '43, In service. 
Pappas. Nicholas J., '43, U.S. Naval Pre-FIight, 
U.S.C., Los Angeles, Calif. Pfallen, Mark A., '43, USNR. V-7. Pilney, Andrew J., '36, In service. Piatt. Francis J., '42, Lt., U.S. Army, Co. I. 
159th Inf., Amphibian Tmg. Force 9, Fort Ord, Calif. 
Piatt. WiUiam R., '42. Pvt.. U.S. Army, Co. B. 27th Bn., CSCRTC, Bks. 1537. Camp Crowder, Mo. 
Platte, Peter J., '41, Ensign, USNR. c/o Fleet Post Office, New York City. PonUn. John G., '40, Ensign, USNR, NTS. Fort Schuyler, Bronx, N. Y. 
Powers, Jeffrey V., '23. Lt.. USNR. Navy Dept. c/o Bureau of Ships, 5210 First St.. Washing-' ton, D. C. 
Pranfe, William T., ex. '35. In ser\-ice. 
Ralston, John F., ex. '19. Lt. Comdr., Medical Examiner's Office, Naval Procurement Office, Keystone Hotel, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Raymond, Leo F., '43, U.S. Army, Camp Roberts. Calif. 
Reagan, Edward A., '43. Pvt.. U.S. Army, Co. C. 1st Fin. Tmg. Bn., Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. 
Reeves, Richard G.. '34, Lt., U.S. Army, AFO 255, c/o Postmaster, Nashville, Tenn. Rehman, William E., ex. '38, Corp., U.S. Army. Btry. C. 802nd FA, Fort Benning, Ga. Rehme, Francis J., '41. Lt., U.S. Army. Co. A. 505 MP. Bn., Camp Breckinridge, Ky. 
Rensberzer, Robert L., '43, Pvt., U.S. Army, Co. H, Bks. 6. Reception Center, Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. 
Ridley. John J., ex. '42. A/C. U.S. Army Air Forces Pre-Flight School. Ma-vwell Field, Ala. Rihm. Robert C . '43, Ensign, USNR, Amphibious 
Forces, Little Creek, Va. Ripley. Albert S., '33. Lt, U.S. Army. Hq. Engr. Amphibian Command. Camp Edwards. Mass. 
Rozers, Robert F., '35, USMC, Co. C, Inf. Bn. T.C., Courthouse Bay, Camp LeJeune. New River, N. C. 
Ryan. William R.. Jr.. ex. '39, U.S. Na\-y. NTS. Great Lakes, 111. Rymkus, Loais J., - '43, USMC, MB, Farris Is­land, S. C. 
Salerno, Nicholas J.. '37. SIC, USCG Patrol Base. 
City Island, N. Y. Scafati. Orlando M.. '36, Ensign, USNR. Scales, Joseph M., '30, U.S. Army, Btry. A, 81S 
AAA-Bn., Camp Haan, Calif. Scannell. Richard J.. '38 ,1st Lt, U.S. Army, 99th FA Bn.. Fort Bragg. N. C. Schoonhover, Raymond J.. '43, USNR Midship­men's School, Chicago, III. Schwartz. Albert J.. '37, Pfc, U.S. Army, 1st TSS, Bks. 219, Chanute Field, 111. Seelinier, Gcorce F.. '32. 21 Bomb Group, 398th Bomb Sadn., MacDill Field. Tampa. Fla. 
Selna, AHhnr J., '39, Ensign, USNR. USNAAS, Rodd Field, Ships Service. Corpus Christi. Tex. Shauchnessy. Ridiard J.. '41, Corp., U.S. Army, 
452 Hq. Sqdn., Frederick, Okla. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Sheehan, Robert D.. ex. 42, AyC, U.S. Army Fly­ing School, Enid, Okla. Sluelds. Leo W., '41, Lt , U.S. Army, Infantry. Fort Benning. Ga. 
Simmons. Robert F.. '35, Pvt, U.S. Army. Co. A, 193rd Glider Inf., 17th A/B Div., APO 452, Camp Mackall, N. C. 
Sinnott, Francis R., '35, Ensign, USNR, NTS, 233 Brown Hall, Princeton. N. J. Skeehan, Edward J., '35, USNR. NTS. U.S.S. 
Prairie State, Section 14, New York City. Smith. Bertram J., e-x. '38, U.S. Army. Soong. John L., '41, Pvt. U.S. Army, Finance 
Department, Keesler Field, Miss. Speicfaer. James A., ex. "42, AyC, U.S. Army Air Forces. Ellington Field. Tex. Stewart. Daniel C. '43, USNR Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Stewart, William J., '43, Pvt., U.S. Army, 402 Tmg. Group Unit 6, BTC 4, Flight 37, AAF­TTC, Miami Beach, Fla. 
Stritch. Robert E.. '41, U.S. Army, Atlantic City, 
N.J. Sttycker, William H., '43, Ensign, USNR, NTS, Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H. Stnart, Franklin H., "43. USNR Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. Sullivan, John B.. '29. L t (jg), USNR, NTS, Columbia University, New York City. Sullivan, Patrick J., ex. '35. L t (jg), USNR, 
I*wis School of Aeronautics. Lockport 111. Superfine, Irving J., ex. '37. Lt. U.S. Navy. 
TaUett, John H., '43. Pvt.. U.S. Army Air Corps, AAF College Training Det. Duquesne Univer­sity. Pittsburgh, Fa. 
Thraing, Joseph R., '40, U.S. Navy Pre-FIight School. Chapel Hill, N. C. Thieme, Allan E., e.x. "33. Frt.. U.S. Army, Co. 
C. Prov. Bks.. Signal Corps. Vint Hill Farm 
Station, Warrenton. Va. .Thompson, George E., '43.Pvt., U.S. Army. Co. 
E. ASTP, 7th SCU 3700, Augsburg Seminary Dormitory, 22nd Ave. & 7th Street, South. Min­neapolis. Minn. 
Tatia. Jo b E.. '34. Lt.. U.S. Army. APO 545. cyo Postmaster. Los Angeles. Calif. 
TMrikmrid. Ukm F., '35k Coni.. U.S. Army. 13th Fighter Sqdo.. 53rd Gmop. FVue Field. iVirt. Hyers, Fla. 
TiMp. JSIDI E.. '43, USNB Midshipmen's School. Notre Dame. Ind. TIBT, Paal C '39, U.S. Army. 5th Regt.. Camp ' Upton. N. Y. 
Voelker. Robert B,. '39. Pvt, n.a Army. Btir. C. S53rd AAA (A. W.). Bn.. Camp Balen, Texas. 
Walker, Jaha A - '30, Maior. U.S. Army Engi­neers, Bristol, Tenn. 
WaUeasack. Haaricc F.. '3S. Corp.. U.S. Army, Serv. Btry., 80th FA Bn.. Sth Mtg. Div.. AFO 6, Camp San Lnis Obispo. Calif. 
Wahh. Jehs J., '38. Lt, USNR. c/o Fleet Post Office, New York Oty. Walsh. Jahn N., '43, Pvt, U.S. Ariny. Co. B, 4th Platoon, 60th Bn.. Camp Wolters. Tex. Warner. Jaha A.. '43. U.S. Army. C.A. (A-A.) Unit Fort Fisher. N .0. Webb. Kabert B,. '43. USMC. MB. Farris Island, 
S. C. Webster, WilBaa B.. '31. L t (jg), USNR. Werner. Jaha F.. '32, Ensign, USNB. Winina. Jaha L.. '43, U.S. Army. WilBMr. Bayawad F.. '43. U.S. Army. Camp 
Perry, O. Wibaa. Williaa C . '41. U.S. Navy, Platoon 72, Bks. E2-T6, OTS, Camp Feaiy, Va. Wrisht. Hany C. '43, USMC, MB, Parris Isbuid, ­
S. C. 
Yararsky. Jaha C . '43. A/C, USNR. Iowa Pre-FIight School, U.S. Naval Air Corps, Iowa City, Yoaar. Benuud L.. Jr., ex. '34, Pvt, U.S. Army, Co. 28, AAFTG, Camp Wallace, Tex. 
Zacaaw, Anthaay F.. '43. USNR Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. ZieaAa. Walter J.. '43. USMC. MB. Farris Island. 
S. C. 
GIFTS 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
• Leonard R. Condon, Rockford, 111 Mrs. William J. Corbett, Chicago Hon. Joseph Scott, Los Angeles John J. Quinn, Rahway, N. J Hugh Dean, Detroit 
(Additional) Joseph A. Conerty, Chicago (Additional) Julian R. Davis, Long Beach, Calif. (.Additional) James A. Kennedy, Valparaiso, Ind 
 $1,000.'  500.  250.  200. 
, . 200. 
: — 100. 
 100. 
 100. 

Matthew^ A. Reynolds, New Haven, Conn. 25. (Additional) John Pierre Roche, Chicago 25. 
(Fourth and final $25 payment on $100 pledge) Martin F. Shea, New York City 25. Miss Helen C. White, Madison, Wis _ 5. 
To the Loan Fund for Needy Students: James A. Kennedy, Valparaiso, Ind $100.. (Additional) 
President of the University. 
» » »
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Josephine Mary Kilgallon and Jesse W. Torres, '23, of New Rochelle, N. Y. 
Miss Lillian Frances Dentler of South Bend and William J. Minces, '42, of Charleston, W. Va. 
Miss Caroline Mary Dezer and Jcremi;;h E. Brown, '43, of Englewood, N. J. 
Miss Genevieve Cook and A^C John A. Miller, ex. '43. of South Bend. 
Marriages 
Miss Christie Nan Hoober and Capt. George D. Haller^ '19, USMC, were married on July 3. 
The marriage of Miss Helen Margaret Shanahan and Capt. John F. "Sam" Dannc, '2S. took place on June 8, in Belmont, Calif. 
Miss Marigrace Crockett and Charles F. "Chili" Walsh, ex. '28, were married on July 18, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Kt a Nangle and William R. Leahy, '31, were married on June 5, in Chicago. 
The marriage of Miss Margaret Mary Ellis and James J. Siddall, USNR, '36, took place on July 10, at Freeport, L.I., N. Y. 
The marriage of Miss Mary Lynch and Ensign James J. SiddaU, USNR. '36, took place on July 10, at Freeport, L.I., N. Y. 
Miss Elizabeth Adele Johnson and Louis G. Ala-man. U. S. Army, '37, were married on May 22. at Fort Collins, Colo. 
Miss Maria Teresa de G. Osio y L. Adalid and Pedro Telmo deLandero. '37, were married on June 12, in Mexico. 
The marriage of Miss Jeanne Bradshaw and Thomas E. Dillon, '37. took place on June 12. in Wilmington, Del. 
The marriage of Miss Dorrith Ramona Abegglen and Dr. Thomas H. Hughes. '38. took place on June 15, in San Diego, Calif. 
Miss Margaret Birkholz and Lt. Joseph E. Beinor, USMC, '39, were married on June 25, at Kotre Dame. 
Miss Mary Barrett Worthington and Frederick 
W. Honerkamp. Jr., '39. were married on June 5. in Stamford, Conn. 
The marriage of Miss Rose Leslie Savelle and Ensiffn Lncien J. Lacroix. USNR, '39, of Hacken­sack. N. J., took place on June 3. 
The marriage of Miss Jeanee Marie Flanagan and Ensirn Harry F. HcDonagh. USNR, *39, took place on June 19. in Chicago. 
Miss Patricia Moran and Ensign Charles S. Reddy, USNR, '39. were married on June 5, in Gulfport, Miss. 
Miss Catherine Turnock and Lt, Bernard J. Coshinr* U. S. Army, '40, were married on May 
22. in Sacramento, Calif. 
Miss Josephine H. Zeithammel and John E. De Moss. '40. were married recently in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Irma SchelHnger and Ensign Francis E. Fergus, USNR, '40, took place on July 15, in Boston. Mrs. Fergus is the daugh­ter of Arthur A. Schellinger, *11. South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Amelia Del Borello and Lt. Edward J. Hart, U. S. Army. '40, took place on June 19, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Patricia Anne Bannon and Ensign Cecil 
E. Jordan. USNR. *40, were married on July 24, in South Bend. William V. Jordan, '37, was his brother's best man. 
Miss Marguerite Taylor O'Neil and Kevin BL O'Gorman, '40, were married on June 26, in Buffalo, N. Y. 
The marriage of Miss Esther Amo!d and SySgt. Carl E. Qainn. '40, took place on July 17, in Macomb, III. 
The marriage of Miss Eleanor Laux and Lt. Robert E. Sullivan, U.S. Army, '40. took place on July 6, in the Log Chapel. Notre Dame. 
Miss Mercedes Montane and Wahib L- Barquet, *41, were married on May 3, in Havana. Cuba. 
Miss Mary Grace Ulley and Richard A. Batt, '41. of Buffalo, N.Y.. were married recently in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Alice E. Car\'er and Sgt. Joseph L. Buckler. '41, took place on May 6. at Fort Williams. Maine. 
The marriage of Miss Carol Beckman and Lt. James M. Gartland, '41, of Marion. Ind., took place on April 27. 
Miss Mildred O'Shea and Ensign Francis J. Hopkins, USNR, '41, were married on June 5, at Fort Pierce, Fla. 
Miss Jean Welch and Ensign Donald C. Ticde­mann, USNR, *41, were married on June 26, in New York City. Thomas Hirschauer. '41, was the best man. 
The marriage of Miss Sally Lynch and Ensign John E. Costa, USNR, '42, of S.-^naw. Mich., took place on April 14. 
The marriage of Miss Dorothy Williams and Capt. David F. Farabaagh, ex. '42, took place on June 21, in Coral Gables, Fla. 
Miss Thelma Irene Schweppe and Lt. (jg) Robert J. Gray, USNR, '42. were married on June 12. at Noire Dame. 
Miss Eleanor Mulderink and John J. Jaworski. '42. were married on June 12. in Mishawaka, Ind. 
Ihe marriage of Miss Dorothea P. Hulloran and Lt. Ardiibald A. MacLeod, Jr.. U.S. Army, *42. took place on July 24. in Jamaica Plain. Mass. 
The marriage of Miss Mary L. Siddall and L t John F. Moriarty, U. S. Army. '42, took place re­cently in Little Rock, Ark. Mrs. Moriarty is the sister of Ensign James J. Siddall. USNR, '36. 
Miss Nano Marie O'Brien and William B. Padon, U. S. Army, *42, were married on Aug. 
2. in Chicago. 
Miss Frances H. Radford, and Lt. Edward D. McKim. Jr.. USMC, '43, were married on July 
12. at Omaha. Nebr. 
Births 
Major and Mrs. Bernard P. Maloney, '27. an* nounce the birth of a daughter, Mary Ann, on-June 29. in Washington, D. C. 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul J. Withey, ex. '27, announce the birth of a son, on July 11, in South Bend. 
A son, Paul Raymond, was bom to Dr. and Mrs. Robert L. Brannsdorf, ex. *30, on June 18, in South Bend. 
A daughter. Anne Brunk. was born to Ensign and Mrs. Thomas A. Kcegan, '30, of Rockford, III., on May 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick A. McCnskcr. *30. an­nounce the birth of a son on June 22, in South Bend. 
Lt. (jg) and Mrs. William P . Cass, '32. of Buffalo, N. Y., announce the birth of a son, William Patrick. III. on June 24. 
A son, Christopher James, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Dnnn, '32. Snyder, N. Y., on June 12. 
A daughter, Margaret Ann, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. George F. Hcnnion, *32, on July 31, in South Bend. 
Lt. (jg) and Mrs. Robert E. Gorman. '32, an­nounce the birth of a daughter. Nancy Ellen, on May 13, in Evanston, III. 
Mr. and Mrs. John M. Crimmins. '33, announce the birth of a son. Hmothy James, on July 20. in Pittsburgh. Pa. 
A daughter, Susan, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Charles BL Loaghrey, '33, of Glen Rock, N. J., on June 1. 
Twin boys, Eric Leslie and Paul Andrews. were bom to Mr. and Mrs. W. Leslie Raddatz, '33. of Los Angeles, on June 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Ryan, '33. announce the birth of a son, Michael Joseph, on Blay 6, in Los Angeles. 
A daughter was born recently to Mr. and Mrs. Fred B. Snite, Jr., '33, River Forest. III. 
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony W. Crowley, '35. an­nounce the birth of a daughter. Ck>Iette Marie, on May 8, in Salem, III. 
A son, Peter de Wilde, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Francis P. Shapiro, '36, of New York City, on July 1. 
A son, Joseph Jerome, Jr.. was born recently, to Lt. and Mrs. Joseph J. Ahlering. ex. '37. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward R. Neaher, '37, announce the birth of a flaughter, Rosemary, on May 30. in New York City. 
Ensign and Mrs. Robert J. Hoag, '39, announce the birth of a son recently in Chicago, 
A son. Andrew Michael, was born to Lt. and Mrs. Andrew F. Wilaon, '39. on July 14. in De­troit, Mich. 
A son. James Edward, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Sdiwanbadi. '43. of Ottawa. 111., recently. 

FOR GOD. COUNTRY, NOTRE DAME 
IN GLORy EVERLASTING 
Lt. Vincent J. Jasiniki, ex. '34, Spring Valley, N. Y., was killed on June 25 in an airplane crash at Marysville, La. Graduated from the Fordham Law School in 1936, Vince practiced law in Spring Valley until the summer of 1942, when he and his law partner, Lt. Clif­ford Fround, closed their offices and enlisted in the Army Air Forces. Sur­viving him are his wife, his parents, two brothers and two sisters. 
1st Lt. Patrick X. Flaherty, '34, an Army Chaplain, died on July 19, his 33rd birthday, at Camp Polk, La., as the result of a swimming accident on June 25. On field maneuvers with arm­ored troops, Father Flaherty had dived into shallow water, breaking his neck. 
A native of South Boston, Mass., and a member of the Viatorian order. Fath­er Flaherty was ordained in 1938. He served as chaplain at the Kankakee State Hospital, Kankakee, HI., and as assistant in St. Viator's parish, Chi­cago, before he became an Army chap­lain more than a year ago. His parents, two sisters and brother survive him. 
Lt. Joseph P. Prendergast, '36, Ware, Mass., was killed in action on Attu Isl­and on May 29, it was announced by the War Department in late June. Joe had been in the Alaskan area for many months, commanding a machine gun unit, and was, it is thought, in one of the first groups which landed on Attu in the successful campaign to force out the Japanese there. 
Outstanding on the campus for his publications work, particularly as man­aging editor of the 1935-36 Scholas­tic and as a member of the tennis team for three years, Joe had been in the newspaper field and employed by the W. T. Grant Company before he entered the Army two years ago. He is survived by his wife, his father and two sisters. 
Capt. James J. Quinn, '36, Colum­bia, Pa., was killed in service in Eng­land according to a telegram received by Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, presi­dent of the University, on July 14. No details were given. 
Jim was graduated from medical school following his pre-med work at Notre Dame. Before he entered military service, he was assistant surgeon for a short time in a Lancaster, Pa., clinic. 
He had been promoted to a captaincy at Tinker Field, Oklahoma City, when the Alumni Office had its last report from him. 
Lt. (jg) Thomas F. Durkin, '37, Salt Lake City, Utah, was killed on June 9 in an airplane crash one mile off Block Island, R. I. The cause of the crash was unknown. 
LT. (JG) THOMAS F . DURKIN, '37 

Tommy, a native of Salt Lake City, resided during his early life in Wichita Falls, Texas. At Notre Dame he gained particular fame as an outstanding par­ticipant in the Bengal Bouts. Following his graduation from the University, he was employed in Philadelphia, San Francisco and Salt Lake City before he entered the Navy as an aviation cadet in December, 1940. 'He was commis­sioned at Pensacola, Fla. 
Assigned to the South Pacific, he re­turned a year later to tell a saga of World War II centering about him: forced down on the ocean he and his gunner had drifted for 14 days in a rubber raft, with only a two-day sni)­ply of food and water, before they landed on a small island inhabited by head hunters and were eventually res­cued. (See ALUMNUS, June, 1942.) 
Tommy is survived by his wife, his father and a sister. 
T/Sgt. John W. Roach, Jr., '38, of Muscatine, la., only son of John W. Roach, '08, died in the North African area on June 23. 
John was graduated from Notre ­Dame, magna eum laude/m Commoee and, in 1941, from the Harvard Law School. Admitted to the Iowa bar, lie was called into service on Jan. 3, 1942, and was trained at Ft. Frauds E. War­ren, Wyo., and Camp Barkeley, Texas, before being sent overseas in July, 1942. He had served snccessfolly in the quartermaster, the ordnance and the provost marshal divisions of the Army. 
Surviving John are his parents and 

a sister. 
S/Sgt. Daniel P. Farley, ex. '38, South Bend, was killed in action in the Middle East on June 13. An aerial gunner, he had g^one overseas on Feb. 15, 1943, and had i>artidpated in the allied triumph in North Africa as weU as in raiding missions over Italy. 
Danny, one of South Bend's most 
widely known young dtizens, was a star 
athlete at Central High School. Attend­
ing the University in 1934-35,'he subse­
quently became a member of the 
school's maintenance staff. He enlisted 
in the Army on June 22, 1942, and re­ceived his training at Jefferson Bar­racks, Mo., Harlingen, Texas, Alamo­gordo, N. Mex., and Topeka, Kans. 
Surviving Danny are his father, Wfl­liam L. Farley, for many years a Uni­versity watchman; his mother; his brother, Cpl. William P. Farley, also employed in the University mainten­ance department before he left for service; and three sisters, one of whom is a member of Army Nurses Corps. ­
Major Joseph E. hmung, '39, Buffalo, 
N. Y., a Marine flyer, was killed late in July when his plane and another plane collided off the North Carolina coast. A press dispatch from Cherry Point, N. CS., brought word, without further de­tails, to the University. 
Joe was graduated, magna eum laude, in foreign commerce. A leading mem­ber of the fendng team, he also partid­pated in cross country and was a mon­ber of the Propellor Club and the Span­ish Club. He was a brother of James W. Leising, '42. 
Lt. Floyd C Grazier, ex. '39, Denver, Col., was killed near Columbia, S. C , in June when his medium bomber crashed into a lake. Floyd had taken much of his training and been commissioned at Luke ileld, Ariz., and had served as an instructor at the Victorville, Calif., Air School and the Columbia, S. C , Air Base. He was about to go overseas when the fatal acddent occurred. 
Lt. Lawrence A. Barrett, Jr., '40, 

Valparaiso, Ind., was killed on Nov. 12, 1941, when a plane he was piloting 
LT. LAWRENCE A. BARRETT, JR., '40 

from Long Beach, Calif., to Tucson, Ariz., encountered a storm east of the Colorado River and crashed. His body was found only last December (1942) by a sun'eying party and was buried in Valparaiso on Dec. 31. 
A cum laude graduate of Notre Dame, Lany was employed by the Con­tinental Baking Co. of Detroit until No­vember, 1940, when he entered the Army Air Corps. He was commissioned at Barksdale Field, La., on July 11, 1941, and the following day was mai-­ried there to Miss Frances Mulligan of Detroit. 
, A rebuilt gold and blue altar and a new tabernacle in St. Maiy of the Lake Church, Gary, Ind., were dedicated to Larry's memory on April 12, 1942, and a beautiful tribute paid to him in a sermon by Rev. F. X. Guerre. Larry's brother, two years younger, died of an incurable heart ailment on May 25, 1942. 
Ensign Paul E. Purcell, '40, Salt Lake 

Citi% Utah, brother of Philip J. Purcell, Jr., '35, and Louis M. Purcell, '37, was killed on July 27 in an airplane crash near Conley, Ga. A flying instructor, Paul was on a routine flight with a stu­dent when the crash occurred. Both men were killed instantly. 
Ensign Walter P. McCourt, '42, and Phil Purcell accompanied Paul's body to San Marino, Calif., the present fam­ily home, where funeral ser\-ices were held and burial made. 
Paul is well remembered as one of the campus' Bengal Bouts leading box­ers and as the ^vinner of the Bouts' sportsmanship trophy. He was employed in Chicago by the Continental Casualtj' Co. for two years before he enlisted in the Navy in June, 1942. He was grad­uated at the Pensacola, Fla., naval air station on Feb. 25, 1942. 
Surviving Paul are his parents, two brothers and five sisters. One of the sisters is Sister Mary Stephen, C.S.C. 

Ensign Henry B. Caudill, Jr., ex. '41, 

Pawhuska, Okla., was killed June 2 near the Melbourne, Fla., air station. Mak­ing a routine flight in anticipation of combat dutj', Henry, because of engine trouble, was forced to land in a field about 13 miles from the station. His plane liit an obstruction, a strut was projected through the gas tank and fire started. He burned to death before he could be rescued. 
A magnificent tribute was paid to Henrj"^ in a letter from Lt. (jg) Joseph AV. Lyons, chaplain, USNR, to Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the Uni­versity. In part it said: "I am proud to have known one of the staunchest, most devout, genteel and manly of your recent graduates in the person of the late Ensign Henry B. Caudill, Jr. . . no­where could there be found a finer ex­emplification of Notre Dame ideals. He was most faithful in regard to the Sac­raments and was accusomed, while at the Melbourne -Air Station, to receive Holy Communion weekly whenever his flight ti-aining program did not inter­fere. .\t all times and under all circum­stances, he was the perfect type of Cath­
• olic gentleman. One of his final gestures was his fulfillment of the circular re­quest sent out by you, for Notre Dame men and their families to join in a campaign of pi-ayers during the closing days of Lent, culminating in Easter Communion. . . the Holy Cross Fathers may well take pride in this product of their splendid spiritual and intellectual training program." 
The June -\LUMNUS was able to 
56 IN EACH WAR 
As of Aug. 5, the number of Notre Dame men who have given their lives in World War II equaled the number of Notre Dame men who gave their lives in World War I—56 in each case. Ensign Paul E. Purcell, '40, Salt Lake City, Utah, was the 56th man in the current list. 
Twenty-two states and the Dis­trict of Columbia are represented in the tragic records of the pres­ent day. Thirty-nine of the 56 men died in air crashes. Exactly half of the total number died with­in the United States. 
Eight Notre Dame men are list­ed by the military as "missing in action" and six as prisoners of •war. 

cany only an incomplete report of the 
death of Ensign Ralph G. Wingfield, 
'40, Lynchburg, Va. 
ENSIGN RALPH G. WINGFIELD, '40 

Ralph, his father wi-ites, was killed in the Alaskan area i-ather than on patrol duty as the June magazine said. He re­ported for duty in Washington, D. C, on Dec. 18, 1941, and had much of his air training at Corpus Christi, Texas. He was commissioned on Sept. 18, 1942, and reported for Alaskan duty shortly afterward. 
Ralph was married early in 1942 to Miss Ocye L. Whitten, Lexington, Va., who survives, together with his parents and a sister. Memorial services were held for him in Holy Cross Church, Lynchburg, on May 18. 
OTHER LISTS GROW 

Since the June issue of the ALUM­NUS appeared, the following have been added to -A.lumni Office lists: 
Missing in Action 

Lt. Otto J. Seifert, Jr., ex. '43, New Ulm, Minn. A Marine flyer, he was en­gaged in combat over the Solomon Is­lands on May 13, 1943, and was last seen "diving at an angle of 45 degrees to­ward the water." 
Lt. William C. Adams, ex. '42, Look­out Mountain, Tenn. Missing in Eng­land. 
Prisoners of War Ensign John C. Metcalf, '37, Duluth, 

Minn. Japanese prisoner in the Philip­pines. 
Cpl. Charles M. Butterworth, ex. '42, South Bend, Ind. Japanese prisoner in Japan. 
Deaths 
Ver>' Rev. James W. Donahue, C-S.C., aged 57. superior general of the Congreftaiion of Holy Cross from 1926 to 1938, died on June 30 in the Community Infirmary of the congregation at Notre Dame where he had been a patient for a week. He had been in ill health for some time and, since August, 1942, had been under treat­ment at Sacred Heart sanitarium in Milwaukee. . 
Very Rev. Albert F. Cousineau. C.S.C.. who succeeded Father Donahue as superior general, celebrated the solemn renulem Mass in Sacred 
FATHER DONAHUE 

Heart Church, Notre Dame, on July 3. He was assisted by Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C.. United States provincial of the congregation, as deacon; Rev. Emile DeGuire, C-S.C, of Montreal, Canadian provincial of the congregation, as sub-deacon ; and Rev. Leo Gorman. C.S.C., of Notre Dame, as mnster of ceremonies. Rev. Richard Col­lentine. C.S.C, former superior of the Holy Cross mission band, delivered the sermon. Present in the sanctuary during the funeral Mass were Most Rev. Moses E. Kiley, archbishop of Mil­waukee, and Most Rev. Edward F. Hohan. auxili­ary bishop of Cleveland. Bishop Hoban gave the final absolution in the church and Archbishop Kiley preside<l at the grave. 
Fallkearcrs were Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C. Rev. William Lennartz. O.S.C. Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C, Rev, Cornelius Hagerty. C.S.C, all of Notre Dame, and Rev. Wendell P. Cor­coran. C.S.C, pnstor of St. Joseph's church. South Bend. 
The oflice of the dead was chanted at 4 p.m. on July 2 by the members of the congregation with Rev^ Thomas Irving. C.S.C. then superior of the Community Infirmary at Notre Dame, in charge. 
Father Donahue w-as the only priest from the United States province to hold the key position in the congregation. Born in Chicago, July 14. 18S5, he received his primary and high school education there. He entered Holy Gross Seminary at Notre Dame in 1902 and was graduated from the University in 1907. After studying theology for two years at Holy Cross college,, Washington. 
D. C. he was sent to Rome to complete his stud­ies and. received Ph.D. and S.TX. degrees there. Immediately afterward he became a charter mem­ber of the newly organized Holy Cross mission band, with which he served until 1920, when he was elected master of novices at St. Joseph's novitiate at Notre Dame. Later he was superior of Aloreau Seminary, also at Notre Dame. 
In 1925 he was made superior of the Holy Cross International College in Rome and remiuned there until 1926, when he came to the United States to attend the general chapter of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross which elevated him to the rank of superior general. Announcement of his election was made in Sacred Heart church on the campus before priests and Brothers of the Com­munity. The provinces of America, Canada, France, and India were represented at the chap­ter which elected him. 
He succeeded in that post the late Very Rev. Gilbert Fran^ais, C.S.C, who tendered his resigna­tion to the Holy Sec in Rome, due to ill health. Father Fran^ais had held the oflice since 1894, succeeding Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C Father Sorin died in 1393. 
Brother Daniel, C.S.C., A.B. '24, A.M. '29, died in Hotel Dieu Hosintal, New Orleans, after a short illness, July IS. 
Born in Pomerania, Germany, in 1875, he en­tered the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1899 and was professed in 1902. 
Since 1925 he had been teacher of X<atin and Commerce at Reitz Memorial high school, Evans­ville. He served also a term as principal. He filled a similar ofhce at Central Catholic high school. Fort Wayne, where he taught for a number of years. Brother Daniel's earliest teaching was done at St. Joseph's College, Cincinnati. 
Timothy T. Ansberry, '93, Washington, D. C, long prominent nationally in law and politics and, in earlier years, in Alumni Association activities, died in Washington on July 5 after a gall-bladder operation complicated by heart disease. 
One-time law partner of Joseph E. Davies, for­mer ambassador to Russia, Mr. Ansberry was, from 1907 to 1915, Democratic representative to Congress from the Fifth Ohio District. He was born in Defiance. O. Appointed in 1915 by his close friend, former Gov. James M. Cox. 1920 presidential nominee, as associate judge of the Ohio Court of Appeals, Mr. Ansberry ser\*ed in that post only until 1916. He then resigned to return to Washington where, after his partnership with Mr. Davies was dissolved, he became a mem­ber of other prominent legal firms. 
Mr. Ansberry was a delegate to the Democratic national conventions of 1920, 1924, and 1928, and ' in 1920 he nominated Franklin D. Rosevelt as his party's candidate for vice-president. 
Sun-iving Mr. Ansberry are his wife and one son, both of Washington. 
Charles A. Grimes, '20, of South Bend and Providence, R. I., died on Aug. 7 in South Bend within a few hours after he underwent an opera­tion. His funeral and burial were in Providence. 
One of the most widely known and devoted of Notre Dame alumni, Charlie, despite severe phy­sical handicaps, had successfully carried on for many years a syndicate feature, advertising and publishing business. In recent years he had cen­tered his business in South Bend. 
Charlie was at Notre Dame both before and after World War I, serving in the Air Corps in the war. Outstanding in journalism he was an editor of the "Scholastic" and was editor-in-chief of the 1920 "Dome." In addition, as a student, he worked on the "South Bend News-TKmes" and as secretary to Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the Department of Journalism. Following his gradu­ation he was employed by the "Cleveland Press," "Providence News" and "Worcester Evenins Post." ^.. 
In Providence, Charlie was an enthusiastic and energetic worker in the affairs of the Notre Dame Club of Rhode Island and Southeastern Massachusetts, serving as the club president and promoting particularly the club's boat trips to the Army game in New York City. 
Sur\-iving Charlie are his mother, three sisters and two brothers, J. Clement, ex. '26, of Provi­dence, and George, ex. '33, serving with the Army in Africa. 
Brother Leander William. F.S.C., AM, *21. La Salle Institute, Glencoe. Mo., died on May 13. 1943. A ballot sent to him for the election of Associa­tion officers was returned with this information. 
Brother James Edward. F.S.C. AJU. *26, o£ Cretin High School. St. Paul, died on j;une 20, 1941, according to a notification recently received by the Alumni Office. 
William T. Cerri. '32. Balboa, Panama Canal Zone, died on July 17 after an illness of several weeks there. 
Bill, formerly of Mishawaka, was the first building commissioner of St. Joseph County, ap­pointed on April 14. 1941. After establishing an outstanding record as a pioneer in that office, he resigned on Nov. 15. 1941. to accept a position as federal building commissioner in Panama. Since the start of the war he had been stationed at Howard Field. Balboa, as an engineer. 
Surviving Bill are his wife and one son, his parents and a brother. 
John R, Dobinsky, '34. of Chicago, formerly of Little Falls, N. Y.. died in May of a blood di­sease. He had been ill for only a short time. 
John was employed in Chicago by the Went­worth and Barnes Company, makers of precision tools. Surviving him are his wife and young son, his parents, a sister and two brothers. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to Joseph B. Nanghton. ex .'99, upon the death of his wife; Rev. Cornelias S. Hacerty, C.S.C., '06. upon the death of his mother: Timothy P., *16, and Francis J. Galrin, '23. upon the death of their mother; Dr. Sbaricc J. Thornton, '20. upon the death of his father; Vincent A. McNally, '27, upon the death of his mother; Ber. Thomas J. Culhane. C.S.C.. '31, upon the death of his mother; Leo B., '31. Lt. Maarice J.. '34. and Ray­mond L. Garland, '37. upon the death of their mother; Rer. John J. Barke. CS-C, '32, upon, the death of his father; Rev. Bernard A- Pe­gearski. CS.C. '33, upon the death of his father; James A. Nolen. '36. upon the death of his father; Rev, Joseph L., '37. Thomas V.. '42, and John B. Powers, '43, .upon the death of their mother; Capt. Hagb B.. '38. and Donald B. Correll, ex. '46, upon the death of their brother; Ensign Joseph J. Gerwe. '41. upon the death of his father: Harry F. McLanchlin, ex. '41. upon . the death of his wife; and Theodore S- Weber, ex. '45. upon the death of his mother. 
Personals 
 J. A. HacNaiura. tl.1890-99 Rer. 
Sunt Jowiili'i HiiienI BmUu, Mount Clemens, BKA. 

From Fathcit Mac: 
Students of the 90*s will be sorry to learn of the recent deaths of John Herman, '91. Tiraothr Ansberrr. '93, and Frank Herinr. '98. By their 
deaths the Alumni Association has lost three very loyal members. 
John Herman always took an active interest in all matters pertaining to Notre Dame and was faithful in attendance at alumni meetings. He and I usually sat at the same table at the alimini banquets and I always looked forward to meeting him. 
Tim Ansfceny always retained his interest in Kotre Dame affairs and took part in the club acti\nties in Washington, where he resided since 1905. He attained high honors as congressman, judge and in legal circles. 
Frank Hering was actively identified with No­tre Dame from the time he entered the University. He was a brilliant student, a fine athlete and able coach. He played a very important part in bringing about the revival in athletics at Notre Dame which began, in 1S97 when athletic teams 
•were once again permitted to play away from the campus. Old files of the "Scholastic" will re­veal his ability as a writer of prose and i>oetry. After graduation he became well known as an orator of e:cceptional ability. He traveled all over the country in connection with his work and was known to Notre Dame men everywhere. For years until his death he was a member of the University Board of Lay Trustees. He was widely recognized as the founder of Mother's Day and was well known for his work in ad­vocating old age pensions. He worked incessantly in private and public to help the aged, the sick and the underprivileged of whatever race, creed or color. 
He always found time, no matter how busj*, to Eer\-e the interests of the University and the alumni, and exerted himself to the utmost in so doing. His love for his Alma Mater was un­bounded and his loyalty has been an example for all Notre Dame men to follow. 
I know that Notre Darae men everj'\vhere will pray for the eternal rest to these loyal alumni of the *90's who have gone to their eternal re­ward. 
1900-04 
Rokett E. Proctor. '04, Monccr BnOdins. EiUiart, Ind. 
HEAD OF ELKS 
Frank J. Lonercan, '04, Portland, Ore., was unanimoaily elected rrand exalted mler of the Benerident and Protective Order of EUcs at the openinr of the lodffe's war con­ference and 79th annnal convention in Bo»> ton on Jnly 13. Mr. Lonersan, an attorney, has held namennu other offices in the order includinr that of president of the Oreson State EDu Association. 

Frank J. Conboy, '04, La Porte, Ind.. has been appointed judge of the La Porte Circuit Court by Governor Schricker to serve the unexpired term caused by the death of Judge C. V. Shields. 
1905-09 
Rer. Thomas E.  Borke. C^.C. 
'•7, Natfc Dame. Ind. 

Attorney MaiimillJan St. George, of Chicago, is one of the organizers of the Institute of American Economics, a group formed to "teach American­ism,'* and was one of those most interested in the recent address in Chicago by Rep. Clare Hoffman, of Michigan, on the "Four Freedoms." 
 Miducl h. Horiaity, gZ15 St. 

1910 Kcv. 
Clair Ave.. Cleveland, O. 

Lscins B. Coppinrer is president of the Fenn­ss'lvania Shipyards, Inc., Beaumont, Texas, an 
SPACE BEDDCED 
From now on. for the duiation. you'll notice a certain cutting-down of club news and class news in the ALUMNUS. Wartime conditions, es­pecially the paper shortage, make a reduction inevitable. 
In the case oi dub news, the cut will be largely automatic because the clubs are sending in less and less news as the lesult, apparently, of iewer and fewer club activities. In the case of the classes the reduc­tion will result from a condensing process presided over by both the class secretaries and the editors. 
It should be emphasized (1) that the editors approach this slicing job with the deepest regreL and (2) that at no time will personal news of any consequence at all be omitted; the cutting will be done mostly on the side comment, etc.. which is often en­tertaining but not exactly essentioL 

organization employing 8,000 in the construction of ships for the war effort. The company was recently in the newsreel spotlight because of its practice of employing bananas to grease the ways in the launching of its ships. 
 J. Kaiaer. 324 Foarth St.. Pitta­

1912 B. 
borglt. Pa. 

Rev. Edward J. Duncan, son of Walter Duncan, was awarded the degree of Doctor of Sacred Theology at commencement exercises at the Cath­olic University of America in June. A priest of the Peoria, III., diocese. Father Duncan was a student at the International Seminary at Can­isianum when the Nazis invaded Austria. He was forced to flee to Switzerland, where he continued his studies until war broke out. Father Duncan finished his theological studies at the Catholic University in Washington, D.C. and was ordained in 1941. 
 H. Hayes. 642 Tliinl ATC . 

1914 
Frank 
Chula Vista. Calif. 

Walter Clements, South Bend attorney, was re­cently appointed federal rent director in the South Bend area. He had been attorney for the same area and will continue to hold the legal post in addition to his new duties. 
 Sanford. 5236 N. Lakewood 

1915 
James E. 
Ave., Chlcaco. HI. 

Joe Healy has been promoted to be a major in the Army and is chief of the Storage Branch, Field Seri'ice Division of the Signal Corps. His office address: Pentagon Bldg. 2D342, Office of the Chief Signal OflScer, Washington, D. C. 
1916 
Grover HiUer. 610 WisGonnn Ave*. Racine. Wii. 
Leocadio Aranjo, Ceara, Brazil, South America, was a quick visitor on the campus some weeks ago, reporting in at the front entrance and leav­ing a note with the watchman for the Alumni Office. 
Professor Kervick. head of the Architecture De­partment, reports that Rndolpli Kelly, architect of Peoria, III., has for months been confined to bed suffering from a broken back which resulted from a railroad accident. 
 J. Vall. SOS E. Tatt St.. Sooth 
Bead. lad. 
1917 B. 

Father Speer Strahan. chaplain-captain in the Army, spoke on June 6 on the nationwide Catholic Hour over NBC. He had recently returned from the South Pacific area. 
 B. Ward, 1012 B!ack Bldg.. Lot 
1920 Leo 
Angeles, Cnlif. 

As you have read and heard frequently in the past two months or so, Edward Patridc *r»dlgan is the new head football coach at the University of Iowa. Slip takes over for Dr. Eddie Anderson. Frank Carideo and Jim Harris, all of whom are in the armed forces. 
Tom Beacom. retiring president of the Eco­nomics Club of Chicago, presided in early June when the club closed its 1942-43 series of dinner meetings with an address by Walter Lippman, newspaper columnist and commentator. 
1921 
Dan W.  Daffy, Ifitf Terminal Tower. 
Cterelaad. O. 

An eastern scout tells us that Forrest Hall is now special assistant to Postmaster General Walk­er, Forrest had been in charge of the press for the Coordinator of Inter-American affairs and previously was assistant to the managing editor of the Internationa! News Ser\-ice. 
Callix BCIIer, South Bend, and two of his sons are all in the Navy. Callix himself is a lieutenant in charge of naval construction battalion in the Southwest Pacific; Callix, Jr.. was in training at Great Lakes, III.; and Jim is in the V-12 program in the East. 
Frqm Jim Hope, '11, of Astoria, Ore., brother of Father Art Hope. '20, comes further word re­gar^ng the untimely death of Frank Francisco­vich: "Frank Franciscovich died last September. He was taken sick in the court room where I was trying a case against him. His state of health became so bad that I suggested we postpone argu­ment before the jury. He was taken to the hos­pital that night and later rushed to Portland where Tom Joyce (another Notre Dame man) operated on him. Frank lived about 10 days. They found one of his lungs full of cancer and it had spread so that there was no chance for him. We were all puzzled that he had not shown more signs of sickness." 
Mr. Hope said further that Frank was "a very successful lawyer, politician and business man and was destined for much higher honors" and that "he served 12 years as state senator end was acting governor for a time." 
1922 
Gerald AAe. 4C.Wat Avenw. HUtm, 
H. T. 

From Kid Aihe: 
"Lighthorse" Harry Hehre of the University of Mississippi was left stranded when that institu­tion aliandoned football for the duration. Ford­ham University likewise has abandoned football, which means that Earl Walsh, who succeeded Jim Crvwiey. has no team to coach. Earl quickly made a connection with Todd's shipyards. New York, as did Jadce' Carfcerry. ex-Fordham end coach. 
J»e Farley of the Civilian Army Air Forces recently was transferred from Detroit to Chicago. 
Jiai F.ren'» new home address is 1360 Seward Ave., Detroit. 
Walt Hatllws and Paal Geukr. ex. '18, are performing admirably with the engineering de­pnrtment, Fisher Body Branch of General Motors in Detroit. 
Our thanks and appreciation to the outgoing second vice-president of the Alumni Association— Jadse Al Scott of Los Angeles. Also, our con­gratulations to his classmate sucessor—Ed Bradley Bailey of Philadelphia and Baltimore. 
This department is most grateful to all who supported the drive for donations for the Centen­nial Fund. True, as a class we did not carry away the highest honors, but we did make a good showing. 
Aaron HasDenard* South Bend, is the new vice-president of the Indiana Bar Association and is thus directly in line to be its president. He was named one of the two Indiana members of the house of delegates of the American Bar Asso­ciation. 
1923 
Paul H. Castncr. 137 South Ave., New Canaan. Conn. 
(See picture on this page) 

The 25 members of the class of 1923 who live in and around Chicago met for dinner in the Me­dinah Club, Oiicago, on the evening of June 15 to celebrate the 20th anniversary of their gradua­tion from Notre Dame. Frank Galvin, of Ham­mond, Ind., had arranged to be present but "was absent because of the death of his mother on June 13. 
Classmates in other parts of the country must have had burning ears that night because every man of "23" was mentioned some time during the evening. Every major event and hundreds of minor events of college days were discussed in detail. All subjects were thoroughly talked over beginning with freshmen days in Badin, Brown-son and Corby and right on through to that rainy Sunday afternoon when the class quivered in their respective chairs on the main quad, fearful that the ribbon-bedecked degree held in hand was only a blank piece of paper- The meeting also made possible the saying of a high Mass for the deceased members of the 1923 class. 
John Montague 

Latest address: Major John R. Flynn, F'rovost Marshal, BTC {No. 5). AAFTTC. Kearns Field, Utah. 
1924 
J. F. Hayes, 393 7lh Ave., Room 1515. New York City. 
Fod Cotton, recently of Norfolk, Va., one of the most successful USO-NCCS workers in the country, has recently become assistant regional supervisor, region four, of the NCCS. with head­quarters in Richmond. Va. His region covers Maryland. District of Columbia. Virginia, West Virginia and North Carolina. 
1925 
John P. Hurley, 2085 Brookdale Road, Toledo, O. 
For the fourth time in the history of the South Bend Knights of Columbus a grand knight was re-elected recently. And he was George Kocb, a teacher in Riley High School, who in his council work, as well as in his school work, has been outstandingly successful. 
Joe Burke, out of the Army on the over-38 ruling, stopped off at Notre Dame on July 28 en route to Brooklyn from California. 
1926 
lector F. Lemmer, Box 661, Ironwood. Mich. 
CITED FOR DISTINGUISHED SERVICE 
Victor G. Yawman, Ro^ester, N. Y., is one of the first six Rodiester Ordnance Dis­trict war workers to receive the Ordnance Department's citation for distinguished ser-Wce in the war effort, according to CoL Frank J. Atwood, chief of the Rochester Ordnance District. 
Vic teamed with two other upstate New Yorkers on a suggestion that the trigger for the .45 caliber Army automatic pistol W stamped instead of machined. The suggestion will save hundreds of thousands of pounds of critically needed steel and release both madiines and men for other war work. Vic is president of the Yawman Metal Products, Inc., which makes triggers for the .45 auto­matic. 
Vic Lemmer commissioned a delegation of class­mates to send in news for the August "Alumnus." and two responded—both, like Vic. from Michigan. From Detroit, where he is executive secretary of the Catholic Youth Organization for the Arch­diocese, Ed Crowe reported on Hal Knaos, who is as busy and as successful as ever with the Kuhl­man Electric Co. in the Curtis BIdg., and on QI Schaefer who is repairing automobiles now that there aren't any to sell. Mai just finished an outstanding term as president of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, being succeeded by Jolia Breanut. •27. 
pTt. Joe Slwa. at the Statler in Detroit for several years, was ktst heard from in the far places. Ed said. He's in the medical division. Joe's address: No. 36539436, 183xd Station Hospital, APO 942. G-o Postmaster. Seattle. Wash. 
Other Crowe notes: EMie O'Neill, nntil a year ago with the Commercial Cre^t Corporation, is now in the personnel division of the Murray Body Corp., Detroit, and residing at 19159 Finehurst Ave. there. Joe Norton, '24, in the same building with Sduwfer, is manufacturing the Norton gauges and tools for the war effort. George Qaine travels in the interests of his family's foundry castings business. Pa«l Joluiton, as president of the Kingston Products Corp., Eokomo, Ind., main­tains his headquarters in Detroit. Dr- Cy DeFerer had offices in Eaton Tower, Detroit, but is now serving as a lieutenant (sg) with the Pacific Fleet. 
From Joe Navane, a member of the law firm of Rosenburg. Painter and Navarre, Jackson City Bank Bldg.. Jackson, Mich., come the following adds on miscellaneous people in the '26 era: Art Sader is still in the flower business in Toledo. John Q. Carey, '27, is doing a great job as mayor of Toledo. Eutace Calliiian, '25. is a lieutenant in the Navy and at the latest report was stationed in Portland. Ore. Frank Ready, *30, is practicing law in Monroe, Mich., and has a "shining briidit little son." Bill Barley, *25. Saginaw. Mich., is married and carries on with his insurance busi­ness. Jim Navarre, ex. '30. brother of Joe, is with the Civilian Defense Council of Michigan and gets around the state a lot. meeting many alumni. 
Fresh from the inspiration of the Jesuits' El Retiro Retreat House, Bert Danne, San Francisco, came through with a magnificent six-page com­mentary on many things, new, old and 50-50. Hiere are tears in the editorial eyes because we can't print the whole job here, but, having laid down some rigid wartime writing restrictions for the guidance of our class secretaries and club secretaries, we must desist. 
As Robert V. Danne. Bert was vice-president and Pacific Coast manager for the Campbdl-Ewald advertising agency until the war stcg^ped automobile production and a part of the company's business, and its Pacific Coast ofiices were closed. As "Don Glendon" he conducted a sports column. 
Present ot the 1923 dinner in Chicago on June 15 were the following. leit to right: (Seated): Loins De Smet George Patterson. Edward Gould. James Young. John Stephen. George Dever. Eugene Hines. George O'Gradr* Jomes Martin. John Norton« WiUiam Jacob. (Standing): John Bohrbach. Daniel Lynch. August Desch. Bruce Holmberg. Fred Larson. Boger Eley, Joseph Henneberzr. Maurice Dacy. John Montague. Thomas Walsh. Edward Kelly. Joseph Troman. WiUiam Voss and Bichard Nash. 
ran his radio show, ^iTote radio i:rTipt«. and contributed to "Collier's," "Look" and ether mag­azines. Now Bert is a public relations co'>n*iei and does a few other thinffs besides, all connected 
•with writing and sdvertiMns. 
Donne notes: Pvt- IVank "Hger" Crowley is (was) at Hammer Field, Fresno, Calif.. 225 miles from S.F., and Tiger and Bert were hoping to get together in S. F. on the July 4 week-end. Capt. Haoricc McEIliffott (M.D.), Lt. Tom Sher­idan and Bert had recently got to;;elher for cock­tails in S.F. "They were going out". Capt. John 
F. "Sam" Danne, '28, Bert's brother, is at Ft. Mason, S. F., after a long term as generpl man­ager of athletics at Santa Clara. Bemie Abrott, '28, a leading attorney in S.F., was on a com­mittee that arranged a banquet for Slip Madigan. '20, new Iowa coach, on June 30. 
Bert was badly broken up—and rightly so— about the death of his wife's cousin. Lt. Tom Durkin, '37, who had crashed 20 miles off Quonset Point, R. I. (See "Deaths," this issue). In S. F. last fall. Jack Shcchan, '25, and Bert had talked over their Washington Hall roommate days. Jack was with the OPA in Washington. 
1927 JoMph U. Boland. Stmtion WSBT, South Bend, Ind. 
The class will be proud to have as one of its members, Mother BL Rose Elizabeth. C.S.C., M.A.. '27, who on July 25 was elected superior general of the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. The election took place at the motherhouse of the Congregation, St. Mary's College, Notre Dame. 
Latest addresses: Pvt. Chaiiie Judge. Co. D, lG2nd Inf., APO 41 (20204582) c-o Postmaster. San Francisco: Capt. James W. Coleman, 65th College Trg. Det. (Air Crew). Syracuse Univer­sity. Syracuse, N. Y. 
1928 Lsnis F. Bndder. 4481 HacArthnr Blvd.. WmAinrton, D. C. 
From Ixm Buckley: 
Art Holton, Lt. TJSNR. wrote from Quito, Ecua­dor, where he is assistant naval attache and at­tache for air at the Embassy of the U.S. Prior to entering the Navy some months ago, he was 
•with the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company with headquarters in Harrisburg, Pa-
Glenn BL Hatch, says a letter from him, re­cently was transferred from the AUentown, Pa., office of the Lehigh Portland Cement Co. to the Boston di\'ision office. Glenn and family are re­siding at 10 School St., Needham. Mass. 
Jerry DeClercq, (father of seven-year-old twins) 
•writes from 7530 S. Went^vorth Ave.. Chicago, where he is with Standard Brands, Inc., in the Fleischman division of the Chicago region office. a newsy letter from which I am glad to give you the following notes: 
Bill Kearney is still an assistant states attorney in Chicago. Bert Korzeneski was to report for in­duction on July 7. Carroll Pinkley is now a sec­ond lieutenant in the administration branch of the Army, stationed ivith the 1650th Ser\*ice Unit, Camp McCoy. Wis. Bill Leahy has two boys and is still with the Pet Milk Co., in Chicago. Dick Phelan continues as counsel for the trust depart­ment of the Chicago T^tle and Trust Company. Joe Brawisdorf is with Indiana and Michigan Electric Company in South Bend. R>5* Luason is with the Chicago Board of Education at Fenger High School. Tom RacUdimiis of Indianapolis is a first lieutenant in the Army Air Corps some­where in Bfichigan. 
P.S.. I had lunch the other day with Joe Mc-

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Cab2. '33. He is now a Navy lieutenant (jg). and has been in training in Washington. His wife and two children live in Milwaukee. When he was located in Louisiana he was an officer on a yacht formerly owned by Cyp Sporl, '28. He men­tioned that Bolan Bnrice and Vtnce SUce are now in ser\'ice. 
Joe Hilgcr wrote from Columbus, Ind., where he has been managing his dad's department store (The \\'liite House). Joe took postgraduate work in business and finance at the Universit>- of Penn­sylvania. He married a Philadelphia girl and they have two girls and a boy. Joe passed along the following welcome news: Oscar Rust and fam­ily lived in Greensburg. Ind., until a few years ago when they moved to Cincinnati. Bill Pfortner worked for Indianapolis Power and Light Co. until drafted into the Army the first of the year. George O'Brien was connected with a chemical laboratory in Seytnour, Ind., until called into the Army. Vince Carey, who was with Joe at Penn., has two children and is connected with the Goddard Shoe Co. of Columbus, O. 
Ralph Nolan has just moved his family to San Rafael, Calif., where he is stationed at Hamilton Field as a lieutenant in the flight control office of the Air Transport Command. Ralph was mana­ger of the Joplin airport before he entered the Army. He had his training at the officera" trainine school in Miami, Fla, His address is 229 Forbes St., San Rafael, Calif. 
The class extends sincere sj-mpathy to Vince Carney upon the death of his father. Vince is in the retail clothing and wholesale sporting goods business in Rochelle. Ill- He has two children. In addition to his two full-time jobs, he manages to work a shift at the Baldwin Locomotive Works in Rochelle. 
Henrj- Hasley, Ft. Wayne attorney, was re­elected state deputy of the K. of C. at the annual convention in Indianapolis. John T. Rocap, '30. Indianapolis, was re-elected state advocate, and v.-as chairman of the resolutions committee. Broth­er Rupert, CS.C, '30, director of Gibault Home, Terre Haute, and Larry Sexton, '33, Indianapolis, were among the delegates named to attend the national K. of C. convention in Cleveland in August. 
Lt. (jg> Tom Mahon, Naval Air Station, Rich­mond, Fla.. and Bob Hamilton li\*e within a mile of each other and see each other frequently. Tom ^\Tote that he and his wife had recently been sponsors for the new child of the George Braati­gams, '29, also Florida residents of late. 
Word from Fresno, Calif., tells of the outstand­ing work there of Lt. Norman J. Johnson, re­cently Father Norman Johnson, C.S.C.. of Notre Dame, at the Army Air Forces basic training center. Father Johnson went to Fresno upon completing his indoctrination course at the Army Chaplains School at Harvard. At Notre Dame he was teaching English, editing the "Chaplain's Digest" and contributing to the work of "The Ave Maria"' as an associate editor. 
Latest addresses: Lt. George W. Cronceyer, 1055th Quartermaster Co.. 80th Service Group, Lakeland Army Air Field, Lakeland, Fla. At the latest report. Lt. (jg) Edward F. Cnnningbara was at sea. c-o Fleet Postmaster, N. Y. C. 
1929 
Capt. Josrph P. HcNamara, 1314 N. Court House Rd., Arlincton, Va. 
From Jfie McNamant: 
Robert Emmett Kirby is a lieutenant - in the Naval Reserve. Ilrst station is reputed to be Public Relation's Office, Great Lakes Naval Train­ing Station, Great Lakes, III Major Bill Kreiff has been advanced to the national head­quarters of the Selective Ser\'ice System, 2Ist and C Streets, N.W.. Washington, D.C. 
Thomas G. Carney is a major. Major and Mrs. Tom live at 1921 Kalorama Road, N.W., Wash­ington. D.C. Grapevine says Thomas (Bad) Hmkey, is still in Akron.... Larry Sexton is a new lieutenant in the Naval Reserve.— Bill O'Connor is still keeping the family wholesale grocery company out in front in the Indianapolis area. 
Blajor John V. Hinkel is an instructor in mil­itary training at the Army's famed School of Military Government at the University of Vir­ginia in Charlottesville. John was graduated from this top Army school in June. B3fore that he'd commanded the demonstration troops at Camp Ritchie. Hd.—a miniature task force of 500 infantry, engineers, field artillery, anti-tank and mounted troops. Prior to that John V.. graduated from a British Intelligence school. John, his beautiful wife and baby, fit perfectly into the Charlottesville scene.... Hinkel reports that there is just one other Notre Dame man in Charlottes­ville: Prof. S, J. Hmldelski of the Department of Agriculture, University of Virginia..,. George 
N. Beamer, former attorney general in Indiana, is now chairman of the state Public Utilities Commission. Political dopesters insist that Beamer can have the Democratc nomination for the governorship if he'll accept it. 
When the war's over we can have the complete story; but now at least we can reveal that David Lehman is credited with having done a very Im­portant job for the War Department in salient overseas sectors prior to and immediately after Pearl Harbor. Dave, who performed his duties as a civilian, has been invalided back to the states and is presently reported to be in the National Housing Agency, Federal Public Housing Author­ity, Dierks Building. Kansas City, Mo. 
Major and Mrs. Bernard P. Blaloney have proudly announced the arrival of Mary Ann on her dad's birthday. June 29. Major Maloney is with the Transportation Corps, 4D-715 The Pen­tagon. Washington. D.C. 
Capt. Tim Hoynihan of the United States Ma­rines can be readied through this address: M.A.G. 11, F.M.A.W.. c-o Postmaster. Navy 140, San Francisco. Capt. Jim Tobin's address is 0-1684373, 95th Station Hospital. APO 629, c-o Pbstmaster. NYC. And Lt. Joseph F. Fitzpatrick, N. Tarr^­town, N. Y.. who was at N. D. in 1925-26, has this address: D.P.W.O., Na\-y 128. c-o Fleet Post Office. San Francisco. 
Clarence G. Liemandt, a Boy Guidance graduate student at Notre Dame in 1928-29, has just entered into partnership with Leon W. I^aBounta in the Minneapolis general agency of Penn Mutual. Clar­ence has been in the life insurance business with various companies since January, 1930. 
Lt. Ed Coyle, a dentist of Taunton. Mass., is serving at the Dodge City Army Air Field. Kans. Ed received his DJ>.S. from Georgetown and took post-graduate courses in dentistry at the L^'ni­versity of Chicago. 
Lt. Barley McDevitt on July 1 took on ris new assignment as executive officer of the Navy Mid­shipmen's School at Columbia University, N.Y.C.. a school much similar to the Notre Dame Mid­shipmen's School. 
"Correspondence is our favorite food," says Major V. P. Cline, APO 715. c-o Postmaster, San FVancisco; in sending in his new address and a contribution to the Centenary Fund. Pete hcpes that some of the classmates can be "induced to write a letter," 

1930 
Harold E. Duke, 4030 N. Broad St., PhCadelphim, Pa. 
From Harold Duke: 
Ray Ziliak writes from £vans\'ille. ^vhere he is connected ^vith Ziliak and Schafer Milling Co.. that he has heen married for four years now and spends his spare moments with son, Michael, at his new home in Haubstadt. 
Andy Aman helped out on my plea for re­porters with word that he is trying to run a jewelry business without priorities and at the same time does inspection work at the Univis Lens Co. Recently Andy entertained Jim Wood, who is in the finance business in Columbus, and Lt. (ii) Bill McCarthy, who was on his way to Chicago on Navy business. He also had visited with Lt. Harry Franns of the Army Air Corps. 
Lt. Don Scfaettiff is in the Na\'y now attached to the radar and radio division of the Philadelphia Navy Yard. His hardware and furniture business in Ebensburg is being capably managed by his wife for the duration. 
The class of '30 is well and ably represented in the FBI. Charles Gass, Pete Wacks, John V. Moran and our old friend who made Kankakee famous, Ed Halloran. 
Continuing with our special reporter system, Jim Barrett, Dave Barry pnd Jim Barry are elected for the next issue. 
Bill AKoayo. Morena No. 661, Mexico, D. F., says that he has been practicing engineering ever since his graduation from Notre Dame and is right now in the foundry business, making valves, piping, connections, etc., for water supply lines in Mexico City. He is looking forward to the 20th reunion of the class in 1950. having missed the 10th reunion on account of business demands. 
Lt. (jr> J«ck Elder, having finished his in­doctrination course at Dartmouth, is in charge of physical training at the naval schools at the University of Wisconsin, Madison. Bemie Conroy sends through Lt. Thomas P. Cnnningham's ad­dress: €3rd Signal Bn. Hq. Co., AFO 464, c-o Postmaster. N. Y. C. Tom is in Africa and said in one of his recent letters to Bemie that he had been at the front for five weeks. 
Bemie*s brother, Tom, *27. had been just gradu­ated from the Jefferson School of Law, Louisville, where he won a "magna cum laude** and the gold medal for the highest average in the class. Tom is working for the Quartermaster Dept., Jefferson-ville, Ind., and residing at Lyndon. Ky., with his wife and three children. 
Joseph W. Lyons. Lt. (jg), chaplain. USNK. sends this inspiring word from Florida: 
"... . the Melbourne Air Station has as the head of its Athletic Department another splendid Catholic who is doing much for the spiritual, as well as for the physical, good of those who come in contact with him. He is Lt. Timothy A. Two­mey, former football great at the University. He is a most zealous individual and has given me invaluable assistance in my work at this station. My permanent duty station is at Banana River about 20 miles distance from Melbourne Air Sta­tion, at which I have additional duty. Since I cannot be at his station as often as I would like, he has been most kind and generous in his sug­gestions, cooperation and contact among the Cath­olic men. He is universally admired by officers and men and is doing a 100 per cent job in his own field. He really started from scratch and now has a most efficient organization, with exceptional facilities furnished mainly through his initiative. 
"At Banana River I have three very good boys in the persons of En^irn John W. Wade, class of '38, and Ensign Charles W. Scfamid. class of '41, of the Transitional Training Squadron Atlantic, and Ensicn K. J. Hcatherman, class of *40, of Squadron VF-209." 
I 0 9 I -'"'*" Bervmn, 138 E. Colfax Ave,. 
I wS I Bend. Ind. 
From John Bcrgan: 
Lt. Jim Rizer of the Army Air Corps was a visitor to the campus last month on his way to his new post at Kansas City. Loa Harscr is now in the Seabees and stationed at an eastern port. Art Knoblock was inducted into the Army in July. Lucas Brandon has returned to his old post* at Bendix Aviation Corp.. South Bend, following a nine-month stretch in the army. He recently re­ceived a medical discharge. Mar Condon continues to hold forth as Chicago's official class greeter in his position as assistant manager of the Morrison hotel. He relates that Bob Rnppe is an engineer for the Chicago Surface Lines and has two fine daughters. 
Don O'TooIe writes to Bergan: 
"I'm living out in Homewood. just south of Chi­cago, and my business is on the far South Side. Hence I don't run into a great many of the boys, as I would if I worked downtown. One member of our class. Jchn Citro, lives near our office, and I meet him on the street frequently. He is with some chemical company in the Calumet Region. 
"A couple of months ago a few of us got to­gether for a bull session with Father Boorfce Hot-sett, who came into town for a night from his parish at Gibson City, III., and with Lt. Ray Hal­ligan, USNR, who was home from sea duty, Ray graduated some time ahead of us. and was very active in the organization of the alumni Glee Club of the Chicago Notre Dame Club a few years ago. Among those at the bull session were Frank HoV land, who is in the coal business in Chicago, and tycoon AI Stcpan, and my brother Panl of the class of '32. 
" Every once in a while I hear from or run into Gerry Desmond, in the insurance business and father of four girls. A few weeks ago Bemie Thompson tried to talk me into a spring vacation. Bernie has a hustling florist business and a bus­tling family of three or four children. 
"Frank Holland tells me that Phil Anvsten is in the Army and is taking credit for having been under fire because he was on duty on the coast when the Jap submarine fired a shell into the state of Washington. Gene VaJee called at our office several times in his capacity as an agent for the Department of Internal Revenue before he, as I understand, went into the Army. Gene Coyle has a daughter and is also with the Department of Internal Revenue. A third classmate who was with the Department of Internal Revenue and now is with the administrative branch of the Army Air Corps, Deon Sutton, has contacted me by remote control by referring government friends of his who were transferred to Chicago to our office for apartments. The last caller said something about Deon's being sent to Australia, and that he is still single. 
"This spring my office sold a home for Phil De Ronlet, who lives in Chicago and is associated with a large warehouse concern. Incidentally as a real estate man I frequently run into Tom Kerri­gan, '30. who has a real estate office on the South Side. I also sea a great deal of Charley SraaUwoad, 
•30, an architect with the FHA, and Mort Gcodatan who took his law degree with our class and han­dles all legal work for the FHA in several mid-western states. A business associate of mine is a very close friend of Bob Gore, and he tells me that Bob has a couple of liaughters and is a very busy fellow running a large poultry farm and a couple of hotels and newspapers in Florida owned by his family. 
"I have two childTOi and.a fairly active real estate business to keep me out of trooble^" 
Tlie "Ahunnus" reports that the OTnfc s froaa Pennsylvania now have five menders of the fasfr­ily in the armed forees. I used to do a good deal of argainK with Dick of that claa ortr irUdh O'TooI e family was the larger, toosfaer, aad smarter—as 1 recall it. we were always tied* We still are, as I will have foor brothers and O M sister in the armed forees by July 3. Hie OTooles of Notre Dame are doing all right by their country. 
2iid Lt. KcaU Bcaier's address: 1311th Engineer Regt.. Gamp Claiborne, tau Bemi was eommxs-. sioned at Ft. Belvoir, Va.. last November and was at Ft. Leonard Wood until Jonew when he waa transferred to Cbibomc. He is now regimental supply officer. Alderman Nick Bsfcliag is now a member of the law firm of Ditehbnme and BoU­ing. 160 N. La Salle St.. Chicago. 
Tem flaldra, Botte, Mont., stopped at the Uni­versity on July 14 en route to N. Y. Oty to, rejoin his ship after a 30-day leave. He had spent 16 months in the Soothwest Pacific Jerry CaHgaa has been promoted to first lieutenant at Fine Bluff Arsenal, Pine Bhiff, Ark., where he is witili the Chemical Warfare Snrice. Jerry was an industrial engineer with the Iowa-Illinois Gas and Electric Co. In Ft. Dodge, la., for 12 years before entering military service in July, 1942. 
Lt. (jg) Frank Baterac is now V-12 athletic officer with the Navy training program at Fiirda» University. Tern LaaiUer* who was on the ea]»> pus in 1927-28, is chief accountant for the SnqK son Construction Co.. 816 W. 5th St.. Suite 1007,. Los Angeles. 
1932 
Lt. James K. CoOiBS. 11S5 MaadMsIti-Ave^ Nerfeft, Va. 
From Jim CalUmi: 
I just bad a long letter from KB Walts stating­tfaat his Victory garden has produced 20 cents worth of vegetables ior two dollars worth at seeds. Bill's better news is that his second son. was bom on May 24 and is complaining already­abont the summer heat of Kassillon. 
Bek NcsUt* sergeant in the Army Signal Corps,, in Sicily with the invaaon forces. He also saw-service in the A&ican inva^on and has been. there since that time. 
John Kramer, a lieutenant (jg) in the Navy,. has been named executive officer on a tank land­ing ship of the Amphibious Force, and is at sea; now. I heard that Ifsdra Pewdl. also a navy jg, is taking further training at the Naval T^raining-Station, Ohio State University. .Cohnnbos. 
Of other classes—Hanrfe HidTille. '33, is a lieutenant (jg) in the Navy Medical Corps and at present is attached to Uon Three, Guiq» Allen. Va. Lt. (jg) Ed Meriarty, '33, was here recently awaiting transportation to the aircraft carrier to. which be had been ordered. He and Lf^ (jg)* Charles ¥1ss had a small reunion, so Charlie says,. I saw Lt. (jg) Bak Breaaaa recently between the-time he returned from Fktrida with the Hiird' Beach BattaU<m and his going home .on leav e He said Easiga Bak Haigiave was at Fort Fieree.. Fla. wbox he was there. 
Lt. Mike Crawfaid. how in the Army Medical Corps, who wrote this Icolnmn so well, aoA me a. swell letter from his post in Texas. Part of his: letter states: 
**I left home (Cleveland) on Sept. 9 asagned to Fort Sam Houston, San Antcmio^ and aft ^ four*, days was sent over here to Beanmont General Hospital, where I have sjmnt my time instructing­scddiers to be first aid men or hospital twhnirianii. In the evenings I am asngned to the obstetrks: -ward in the hospital, so haven't become as rusty as I thought I might in joining the Army. 
"Haven't run~ across any Notre Dame service men in Texas.... My entire Army career has been spent in Texas, except for a short time in delivering a patient to Duluth. Minn. 
"While coming through Chicago last fall I was able to contact Emil Jane, and with him had a very nice visit. He's doing very well with Wal­green's in Indiana Harbor and has a fine family. Jack Collins is in Washington with the Judge Advocate General's office. I expect a change be­fore December—probably more Texas." 
Thanks. Mike, for your interesting letter, and srood luck to you and all the other fellows in the Ser\*ices. 
Tlie following is taken verbatim from the "Cleveland Plain Dealer," of July 25: 
"An appreciation of Capt. Paul J. Hallinan. <:haplain with the army in the southwest Pacific .area, by Corp. Norman Rayburn Bergman has been received by friends here from Rabbi Leo Bergman of Rockford. 111., brother of Norman. Gorman's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Max Bergman, live at 2330 Euclid Heights Boulevard. Cleveland Heights. 
"Corp. Berman's letter referring to Chaplain Hallinan follows: 
" 'About five feet nine, a continuous smile from <ar to ear. curly black hair, and a pair of eyes "that are as Irish as Paddy's pig, that's the best way of characterizing our chaplain. Father Hal­linan. He is the best friend any man in the service could have. We have all agreed on this point. T^e men in our Ferment got together and built him a beautiful chapel here at our camp. He helped supervise the construction of it. Men •of all faiths and from all walks of life can be seen stepping in and out of our chapel for a 
short prayer all during the day. Catholic, Jew and Protestant, we all love and respect Father Hallinan.' 
" *As a Jew, I want all Cleveland Jewry to know that Father HalUnan. who is from Cle\'e­land. made it possible for us to hold our tra­ditional Passover services here in this area under the most trying conditions. We held the official Seder for two nights, and it was beautiful. This IS only one of the things Father Hallinan has 
•done for our small group. He organized Jewish ;services on our transport coming across.' 
" 'All Cleveland should look forward to the day that Father Hallinan returns to his parish on E. 109th Street, bet^^'een Superior and St. Clair. ' I am writing these few lines on behalf of the men of the regiment. We want^all Cleveland to know how we feel about Capt. Paul J. Hallinan. ^ Catholic priest, who is God's messenger to us.' 
"Before enteringr the chaplaincy, Capt. Hallinan -vvas assistant at St. Aloysius* Church, 10932 St. Clair Avenue, N. E." 
Leo Sdiiavone, 6941 Woodlawn Ave., Chicago, having completed his training at the Army Ad­ministration Oihoer School, Fargo, N. D., was 
•commissioned on June 23 and is now serving in the Headquarters, Ninth Service Command, Ft. Douglas, Utah. With him through his entire training course was Jim Downs, who is now at Camp Beale. Calif. On a leave, Leo and Jim got together with Ben Salraty and NeO Hariey, and ""it was just like old times." Leo was married in Chicago last January to Gertrude Buckley. 
Charlie Weiss was commissioned a second lieu­tenant at Ckmp Lee, Va., then spent a leave in South Bend before going on to Omaha for ad­vanced training. Haro' KiUburcer, Lancaster, O., attorney, was honor man of his recruit training company at the Great Lakes Naval Training Sta­tion. 
Lt. Ed O'Malley has been transferred from Arkansas to Dodd Field, San Antonio, Texas. Ed and his wife are residing there at 804 Brooklyn Ave. Ensign John F. Werner is serving with the amphibious force of the Pacific Fleet. 
Addresses: Capt. Charles H. Brown, (North Africa) 0-320796. APO 1881. N. Y. C ; 2nd Lt-John P. Laaghna, A.S.N. 575303, 19th A.D.G., APO 3875. c-o Postmaster. N. Y. City. 
THIS IS COL. JONES' ARMY 

If yon want to see a real blow for a '32 man look up the June 14 issue of "News­week," page 26. There yoo will read of the remarkable accomplidiments of Lieut. CoL Charles D. Jones, of Jackson, Miss. 
Merrill Mueller, "Newsweek" correspond­cnt in North Africa, reported that Charlie was the "driving spirit" behind the Fighter Training Command " 'finishing school* for boys and men who have manned and will man the single-seater planes that mean air domination in the Mediterranean." The school is "one of the most nnnsaal air train­ing centers in the worid—a place in Morocco where American airmen fresh from sqoad­rons in action put new crews jnst arrived from the United States through a rigorous pre-battle coarse." 
1933 
Tisfae Woods, 7944 EIUs Are.. Chicago. 
m. 

From Tigbe Woods: 
My most humble apologies to the class of 1933. As I sit here staring at a letter dated Nov. 28, 1942. I blush! 
The letter was from Chuck Hafron of South Bend, now a lieutenant (jg) in the Navy phy. ed. program. Chuck was inducted late in '42. leaving his teaching-coaching job with the South Bend schools. 
A note from Don Wise's mother (also Decem­ber) reported that Don was a lieutenant (jg) and after Christmas was to be stationed in Bos­ton. 
Lt. Howard A. Donville sends news from Let­terman General Hospital, San Francisco, where he was confined for a short time, that, while at March Field. Calif., he ran into Lt. Jc»c Brehler who was also stationed there. Joe's official address at the time of the note (April) was 850th Engi­neer Aviation Battalion, Hammer Field, Calif. Howie said that his own mail would soon be ad­dressed c/o Postmaster, San Francisco. He asked for the address of Rev. "Chick" Sheedy, C.S.O., which is Notre Dame, Ind. 
At last I'm current. A long letter from Lt. (jg) Joe McCabe. Since the last issue of the "Alumnus." Joe has been in the hospital anothei seven weeks. His present address is 9731 Langley Ct., McClean Gardens, Washington, D.C., where he is living with his wife and-daughter Anas­tasia Helen II. I'm going to quote whole chunks of his letter: 
"At Dartmouth saw or heard of Don Ryan, who was stationed there, Johnny English, Al Capter, Jack Elder, Wayne Hillner, Eddie Caldwell, Steve Halloran, who while I was there jumped from a. chief to a lieutenant (jg), and 'youngsters* (classes of '38 up to '42, I'd guess) and John Sulli­van of Fall River, Mass., Dan Sallows of Brook­lyn, and Pete Zachek of South Bend, who is a dead ringer for Bob Lee of Chicago. As you probably know, Ed Horiarity and Frank "Red" Reilly, ex­roomie, were in classes before me. Bob Gorman is stationed at Trinidad. B.W.I.. and recently be­came the father of Nancy Ellen Gorman. Ran into Barry O'Keefe here—he's a two-striper in ord­nance. Tom HcKevitt, who lives near me. is with the lands division of the Department of Justice. Clay Jolmsvn is now general counsel for the U.S. Synthetic Rubber Board. I hear John Collins is stationed in Washington—in the Army—though I haven't met him. Saw Johnny Baldwin a month ago. He is a first lieutenant and looks swell. Steve MiUer—also a jg—is stationed here at last word." Thanks, Joe. 
Capt. Charles Beasley. USMC, made a short stop in Chicago on his way to the Pacific Coast after attending the Staff and Command School at Quantico. This will be his second trip into the Pacific battle area. Although cited for bravery in action, all he would talk about were the pros­pects for the team next fall. 
For those of you who are following the saga of the Chicago OTooles, there are now five in the armed forces, Justin. Kevin. Bart Jr., Vincent and Patricia. Paul tried to get into the Navy but they vparently have enough dumb real estate men. Donald is all wrapped up in the promotion of a large scale negro housing project. 
From Les Raddatz, Hollywood, working "in the press department of NBC, living in the sort of home you dream about in the San Fernando Val­ley." comes dope on several of the brethren. '33 and otherwise. Les says: "Bill Corr, '32. is at Lockheed, while Leo Banes, who was there, is now in the Navy. My former roommate. Fred HacBeth, is in the Canadian Navy, a lieutenant. Gene Linr. '38, formerly of Cleveland, is now a writer at 20th Century-Fox and doing very well tor himself. My brother. Bud, ex. *35, recently resigned from Spokane Chamber of Commerce to join the industrial relations department of duPont at F^LSco, Wash." Les is the plenty proud father of twin boys, bom June 11. 
When Jim Gerend wrote on May 21 he had just been inducted into the Marines and was undergoing boot training in San Diego. Address then: Pvt. James J. Gerend, Platoon 349, M.B.. Recruit Depot, San Diego. 
 B. Gknnon, Jr., Brook Manor, 

1934 
JoKph 
PkasuitTilfe. N. Y. 
PIONEER IN PRODUCTION ILLUSTRATION 

Oliver J. Clurie. ex. '34, saperviaor of ProdaetMa lOntration for the Adel Picd­sien Ptadaets Corp., Bnrfcank. Calif., a abo an iiutraetor in Ike nm e field for the Cali­fornia Inatitate of Tedinolonr. Prodoction IHaatration is a metliod of speedinr prodoc­tion bjr nukinc "breakdown drawinn" for tiu information and cnidance of raeciianics and w«nld-te iMdianici. eliminating consid­erakle of tlu need for readinc blaeprints on tke anal aaaemUy lines. In this new field, OliTer is one of the recoxnized pioneers, kavinc worked for several years witk George Tharratt, tke magnized originator of Pro­dnetion lOnstration. 
To U s years of arehitectare training at Notre DsBM, Oliver attribntcs madi of Us sBCtess in kis pioneering efforts, he told Professor Kervick, head of the Arckitettare Department, when ke visited Notre Dame recently. OUver reported that Fred Kellogg, formerly of RoA Springs. Wyo.. is an oat-standing saecess as a Prodaction lUastratsr at Dsoglas Aircraft, wkere he started nnder OUvci's anpervisien. 
Sst. EU J*, Shahcen (Abraham) was at Notre Dame for a couple of days in late July enroute to the Washinpton, D. C, area where he was to take special v.-ork leading to his commission and an assignment in keeping with his background in languages, etc. Eli had come from a New Orleans camp. 
Bob Chenal is assistant field director with the Red Cross at Camp Davis. N. C. Lt. (jg) Bemie Witndii. South Bend high school coach, was sent to work in the physical fitness program at the Georgia Pre-Flight School upon completing his indoctrination at Chapel Hill, N. C. 
Address: CpL Clarence W. Jenkins. 32281536, 95th Rep. Sqdn.. 8th A.D.G., APO 625. c-o Post­master. Miami, Fla. Clarence's home is in Olean, 
N. Y. 
Lt. (jv) Bob Cahtll. having finished training, spent a July leave in South Bend, en route to the West Coast. 
1935 Fnmkiyn C Hochrciter, 340 Rosedale ATC , St. Louis, Mo. 
From Hodi: 
We were rejected May 26 because of our vision and allergies, so now we are carrying on in St. Louis temporarily. Sorry we can't join youso guys in uniform I 
Our one letter came from Lt. Charlie Afaher. CE.C., 50th U- S. Naval Construction Battalion, c/o Fleet Post Office. San IVancisco, Calif. Chuck wrote on the Fourth of July as follows (via V-Mail): *'Mind if I report from 'Island X* some­where in the Pacific where the Seebees have everything under control on the construction horizon. Had the pleasure of meeting a new Navy chaplain last week—^Lt. Edward Barron. an old Notre Dame man. Unfortunately I haven't received my 'Alumnus' for some time and have lost track of the old gang. Do you know where Georce FOBS is stationed?" 
That's it. fellas! Want to do something about it? We hope soil! 
•Way back on May 11, L t Jim MacDevitt. then —and probably still—at Hq. 85th Div., APO 35, c-o Postmaster, Shreveport, La., sent a long and elegant letter to the Alumni Office, along with his check. Jim's news should have been in the June "Alumnus," but work and personnel being what they are, it wasn't. With a deep bow to Jim for a swell job, we'll try to make up here. 
MacDevitt items, as of May 11, follow (if they are out-of-date, we beg your pardon): Major Harry M»y, 410th Infantry, Camp Claiborne. La., has a daughter about seven months old. Jim Kirby, *36, was to marry Peggy Ellis, N. Y. C.» on June 5, Enriffn Cy Strokcr, '37. is a boarding officer. Address: N.O.B. Iceland, c-o Postmaster. 
N. Y. C. Joe Bncci was wounded in action while serving with the Marines in the South Pacific. Jeff Garry, ex. *37. married Marguerite McCauley, Jackson Heights, I. I., N. Y., at Chanute Field. III., on Oct. 10. 1942. He is now overseas. 
Lt. (it) Pat SnUWan. ex. *34, is at the Lewis School of Aeronautics. Lockport, III. Pat's pal. Don Ratlierford. ex. '34. has four husky children, and Jim saw them when he was at home in March. He also saw Father Hany Stegman, 
C.S.C. and Fadier Ed Hammer then. Bill filalloy. of Flushing, L- I., is a C.P.O. in the Navy and on duty in the Atlantic. Barney Bernhardt, '33, is with the Navy at Indiana U. Stacey Van Petten is a post office inspector working out of Balti­more. Jim Shielt, a government aviation expert, has a baby daughter. Cliff Neilion, '36. was with the 410th Infantry at Camp Claiborne, La., last Christmas. Pan! Doyle, '36, took the part of St. John in St. Joan of Arc's Passion Play, Jackson Heights. 
Lt. (jg) Bill Moss, aviation supply officer, is liv­ing at the Central YMCA, Philadelphia- Connor Cronin is with the Finance Department, U.S~A., Wake Forrest College, N. C. Ed Neaher. '37, is taking a training course with the FBI, Washing­ton, D.C. (Remember, as you read, that all of this news was written on May 11) Lt, (jg) Jordan Hargrove is reported to be at Duke University. Sgt. Joe T. Dorgan, '37, is in North Africa. Address: 36328906. 450th M.P. Co., APO 512, c-o Postmaster, N. Y. C- Lt. Bemie Cronin, '34, is division classification officer, Hq. 85th Div.. APO 85, Shreveport, La. 
Two other of the MacDevitt brothers are fellow infantrymen of Jim: Eamon de Valera MacDevitt. ex. '43. 323rd Inf., Camp Rucker, Ala., and Lt. Tom MacDevitt. ex. '40, APO 865, c-o Postmaster, 
N. Y. C. Sgt. Jack Ross is with the Signal Corps. Ft. Monmouth, N. J. Jim had heard that Jack McQnade, Jackson Heights, was a lieutenant in the Medical Administrative Corps. 
Jim was married to Catherine FitzGibbon of Scranton, Pa., on April 18, 1942, at Ft. Benning, Ga., and on Feb. 17, 1943 they became the parents of a red-headed son. Catherine Neaher, B^'s wife, was Red's Godmother. 
Jim is a C.P.A. in addition to being a military man. With some expert advice from Ollie SdwU, '29, and Jim Kirhy he reached the accounting heights soma time ago. 
1936 
Joseph F. Mansfield, 34 Fifth St.. Felham. N. Y. 
From Joe Mansfield: 
In keepins with Bill Dooley's request, me're paring: this edition's contribution to the Txjne. If the column seems shorter than is usual, it's that way in the interest of paper conservation, etc 
We received a letter from Larry Palkovie a few weeks back. Larry is not yet a member of the armed forces but is contributinsT a whole lot as physical instructor for a town in upstate Kew York. 
Lt. (JE) John Horan is still in New York and we have lunch together on occasion. On our most recent meetins, we had TjStt. Andy MeHahan. '35, with us. Andy hails from Pawtucket, E.L He's stationed at Camp Shanks. 
We learned of the death of Joe Prendercait just a few days ago. His passing was a distinct shock. (See "Deaths," this issue). ITie deepest sympathies of the class go to Joe's wife and family. 
Sherb Herrick has left New York for additional training. He seemed to feel that he might get that long-awaited overseas duty. 
We've been entertaining Lt. Ed Mansfield. '34, of Denver. Recently commissioned a lieutenant in the Signal Corps, he is taking additional training at Asbury Park, N. J. When he left us, Ed was in the midst of a bad case of poison ivy which he had picked up while on a field problem. Ac­cording to Ed, Jack Staeehan is still doing very well in Denver. Jack, as you may know, is a brand new proud pappy. We want to keep this space well filled, so whenever you have the time, drop us a line—a postcard will do—telling us where and how you are. 
When he wrote to Joe MansfieM on May 19 the recently-engaged Ensign Jim SiddaB was attending the Navy's PT school, Melville, R. I.. along with seven other N. D. men. Norm Dike was due there June 12. Jim was engaged to Mary Elizabeth Lynch, Freeport, L. I., N. Y. 
J«lu Bather wrote from Washington. D. C. on June 14 that he had received a eonunission in the Navy and that his home address would hence­forth be 10 Crawford St.. East Orange. N. J. Jim Byrae wrote in early June from the Southwest Pacific combat zone that he had enjoyed no end all copies of the "Alumnns." that his health had been excellent and that he was immensely proud of the records of his fellow alumni in the war. His address: Pfe. James A. Byrne, Jr., USMC. Battery D.. 90 mm. Anti Aircraft Group. 9th defense Bat., Fleet Marine Force., c-o Fleet Post Office, San F^rancisco. 
Jaha Byao, Oak Parb III., was commissioned a second lieutenant at the -Adjutant General's OCS, Ft. Washington, Md.. on June 17. Ensioi Aady PilMey has been assigned to phy ed. work at the Pre-FIight Schol, Athens, Ga., after training at Chapel Hill. N. C. 
 nby , (M HawtiwrM Kmi.1937 Pari 
Palate. MUk. 

Addresses: Lt. ClMrlc* G. Saneutein. Co. F.. 11th Inf.. APO 5, e-o Postmaster. N. Y. O.: Capt. James K. Marr. ISOth Inf., APO 960, e-o Postmaster. San IVandsco. 
Jee WelA has moved into a home he recently purchased at 113 Ayer St.. Rochester 13. N. Y. Joe. in Rochester for a year now, is an account­ant in the expense division of the accounting de­partment'of Eastman's Hawk-Eye Works Plant. He says that Frank DcGlnk. '33, is also in the accounting department, in charge of raw ma­terials records. 
Lake Tieraan of the U. S. Marines became a first lieutenant—promoted—and a father about the same time. The son, Thomas Raleigh, was born- in Georgetown Hospital, Washington, on June 30. Luke and his wife and son live at 1114 —ISth St., South. Arlington, Va. 
Geeice J. Palmer, who was at Notre Dame in 1933-35, is a war correspondent with the United Press. At the latest report, he could be reached at 22 Sharia Kasr el Nil, Cairo, Egypt, e-^ United Press Office. 
RECEIVES AIK MEDAL 
At aa impresaive ccreaway at a Sixth Air 

Feree baae in tlw CariMeaa area receatly 
Lt. CsL Laals E. Ceiia. ex. "ST. was award­
ed the Air Bfcdal far awritsrieas acUcT*-
BKat. He Is execaUve swcer sf Us aait^ 
CsL Csira'a wife, aad Us parcata. Mr. 

and Mrs. Lsals CMra, Hve at 175 Fairvisw 
St., Lack Havea. Pa. Be recently rctaracd 
ta the Vaitcd SUtcs. 
The Calsael atteaded Nstic DaaK ia 1N>­

34. 
Phil Baadi. when last he wrote, was at home. 42 N. Mason St., Amboy, III„ and feeling swell. No late report from him on his plans. Jim Baean, a recent honor graduate of the Syracuse University School of Journalism, has joined the Associated Press. Albany. N. Y.. bureau. 
2nd Lt. Bin HcNally wrote in early June from 304th Fighter Sqnadnin at the Army Air Field. St. Petersburg, Fla. Quotinr Bill: "I am in the Air Corps Inteleligenee and am sure Paal Fealsa will appreciate that as will numerous others who taught me." Bill was inducted June 6, 1942. com­missioned Jan. 19, 1943. 
Eaaicn Jae McNally, otherwise Brother Joe. had just returned to the U. S. for three days when Bill wrote, having; been engaged snce De­cember. 1942. in carr3rinff supplies to Africa. Quoting Bill again: "A M\ow officer who returned to the U. S. A. while Joe was still over there told 119 his boat had been beached at Casablanca and they (Joe's boat) lost their compass. I wonder 
32 

whether Joe was shooting dice again. However, I guess Joe fared all right Maybe he learned to row at St. Mary's one Sunday afternoon." 
Lt. Jim Blanton (who* incidentally* was at 

N. D. a few weeks ago, looking like a million as usual) was in Joe's OCS class at Miami Beach. Bill Bmno was in Joe McNally's class at Little Creek. Va. 
McNally quote no. 3 : ". I heard that Bill Prangc, ex. *34, was well and healthy and doing his part when the Axis collapsed in Africa, I'll bet Bill drank his share of Budweiser in Tunis that night." 
1938 
Harald A. WUlUms, 4323 Marblehall 
U. . BahlBOTe, Md. 

Capt. John Bertelinc, USMC. stopped in at Notre Dame on July 4 for a short visit. John, then assigned lo the Naval Hospital. Corona. Calif., had "been out of the U. S. for 13 months before he fell ill, spending a month in the Solo­mons and bagging at least a Jap Zero for sure and one probably. 
2nd Lt. Bob Hallen (River Forest, III.) is (was) in Africa- His address: 01290796. Anti Tank Co., 141st Inf., APO 3842. N.Y.C. Joe Callahan, now a major, is also in Africa and has met up there with Jim Blant who is with a medical outfit. Joe, he said in a letter on June 21, would appreciate a letter from any or all of- his old mob, especially from Chuck O'Reil­ly, Chndc Sweeney, Pat McCarty and Ennio Ar­beit. His address: Hq. 1st Armored Corps, APO 
758. c/o Postmaster, N. Y. C. 
Dan Gibbs, a Navy torpedo plane pilot at present stationed at the Fre-Flight School. Pel Monte. C^lif., met up there, through Lt, (jg:) Bill Hahoney. '39, with Ensign CTomelius 'Warmerdam, world champion pole vaulter. It turned out that Dan was the last man to "heat" Warmerdam at vaulting. It happened at the Drake Relays in 1937 when five men tied for first at 13 feet, one-half inch. Dan w^as declared to be the winner because he had taken fewe.r tries. "Warmerdam was third. (Credit line to Jim Costin, sports ed.. 
S. B. **Trib.", on -this one. Costin got it from Mahoney by way of Lt. (jt> Joe Petritz, '32.) 
Father Bill Botzam, CS.C. '38. was one of those ordained at Notre Dame on June 24 by Biabop NolL Hts first assignment in the order had not been given out when this was written. Ned Fishwidc, now a sergeant, was still in North Africa when he wrote on July 18. 
Notice the "Sergt. Morra" who appears occa­sionally in "You're in the Army Now" cartoons of Capt Here Ficklen. Well, he's Sgt. Pat Morra, of South Bend, who spent a year with the class before joining the advertising staff of the South Bend "Tribune." Ficklen and F^t were both in Africa at the latest report. 
After serving in the Army for two years, Ed Mattingly was in June commissioned a second lieutenant in the Army Transportation Corps and assigned to Ft. Mason. Calif., for duty at the San Francisco Port of Embarkation. Capt. Bill Hefarinr has been in the South Pacific with the Marines since December. 1942. and has eeen plenty of combat according to a note from his parents. Enlisting in November. 1940. as a pri­vate. Bill rose to a captaincy in less than tvvo years. He spent several months in Iceland. 
Capt. Hncli Correll was at Romulus, Mich., with the Army Ferrying Command, when his mother wrote in mid-May and had recently been recommended for his major's commission. Hugh is married and has a young daughter. Tragically. his brother John, a lietenant in the Marines, was killed in a plane crash. in the South Pacific on April 7. John hadn't attended N. D., but a younger brother, Don, who was here in the first 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
semester of this year, is in the Army and was recovering from a major operation at Ft. Knox. Kv. 
1939 
Vincent W. DcConrscy, 1321 GeorcU* Kansas City, Kani. 
From Vince DeCoarscy: 

Boss Dooley's edict on length and content of column shall this week be obser\'ed with the greatest of ease. Reason: no news. But we do find-
Letter from Mrs. Charles H. Carroll telling about son Bill, who at date of landing in Africa (March) was 2nd Lt. Willium Carroll of the Infantry. Address: 0-1309039. Co. B. 21st Repl. Br. 2nd Repl. Depot. APO No. 776, c/o Post­master, N. Y. C, N. Y. 
Long awaited report from Dick Anton, back in South Bend at Oliver Farm Equipment. Ad­dress 623 West Washington St.. Apt. F. South Bend. 
Long-time-on-way letter from 1st Lt, John Cclla from somewhere in Never-Never land in the South Pacific. Mentions bumping into Lt. Bob Nichol and Lt. Dave Connor, and hoping to meet George Hagrerty. John mentions being on Guadalcanal. His address: F.D., APO No. 716, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco. 
Card from S^Sgt. Louis DaPra who spent Whitsuntide in England. Address: 35113539, 337 Bomb. Squad. APO No. 634 N-Y.C. N. Y. 
Bob Kennedy, in the South Pacific with the Marines for more than a year, was promoted to be a major as of June 1. Capt. Paul Kelley, Army, ser\-ed the first Mass dedicating a new post chapel in New Guinea. Bill CsUahan, as of late May, was an intern in pathology in Barnes Hospital. St. Louis. Late July saw Fred Sirk, Army, residing at 240 E. Delaware Place, Apt. 
203. Chicago 2. Ensign Ted Frericks was, as of ­early July, being reached through the Ileet Post Office. New York City. 
Val Deale is in the Naval Intelligence School, Dni­versitj- of Colorado, studying Japanese language, customs and history. Bob Reilly wrote from 1131 Fifth St., Miami Beach 39, Fla. He is assist­ant engineer to the C-54 project en^neer of the Pan America Airways, Eastern Division. Bob was married on March 29. 1942. in St. Paul's Church. Birmingham. Ala., to Mary Lou Sabol. Tom Ziegler was commissioned a second lieu­tenant in the Adjutant General's OCS, Ft. Wash­ington. Md., on June 2. 
From India, 1st Lt Robert F. Sdiirf. ASN. 0-441215. 3rd Sqd., 1st Ferrying Group. ICW, ATC, c/o Postmaster. N.Y.C, wrote a grand let­ter on May 10. Bob had been with Father John Harrington, '29, "a peach of a fellow". Catholic chaplain for the area, serving Mass for him nearly every Sunday. Also in the area was Dr. Jim Tobin, '29, of Elgin. III., who was with the station hospital. 
Bob wrote farther: "Last February I had my first leave since joining the Army and so spent 12 days in Bombay. Traveling over 4,000 miles for a leave seems crazy, doesn't it?, but after being in a jungle for months I wanted to prove to myself that I was still human. We slept in real beds, saw movies, ate off china dishes and had an American good time. For my money, Bombay is the best spot in India, but none of it can compare w-ith any of the good old U. 9. A." 
Coaching changes: Earl Brown, as you've read long since, from head baskeball coach and end coach at Harvard to head football coach and head basketball coach at Dartmouth; Max Bamcll, from head coach at St. Cecelia's High School, Detroit to head coach at St. George's High School, Evans­ton, 111., one of Chicago's largest suburbs. Each coach, inicdentally, has a son and a daughter. Milt Piepal, '41. coach last year at C. S. C's Cathedral High of Indianapolis, will coach the backfield at Dartmouth. 
Right after he was commissioned at Ft. Wash­ington, Md., in the adjutant General's OCS., Patrick R. "Rollie" O'Shea, was back home in South Bend with his wife. He had bean assigned to the classification section at F t McPherson, Ga., near Atlanta. Rollie has been in the Army for well over a year now , 
1940 
••>tTt G. Suf.ri, 3>M N. MairUad An , Wlwnkee. Wb. 

Address: Capt. Barrr H. Phillipi. Co. C. Ist Bn., 8th Uarines, c/o Fleet Post Office, San Fran­cisco. Harry has been in ser\*ice since September, 1940, and has been in the Pacific war zone since January, 1942. He saw six weeks of heavy fight­ine at Guadalcanal. 
HENEBRY GETS 'EM 
Jthn Hencbry, '40, now a major, con­tinacs. to ke one of the most notable Wiiber pilsts in the Pacific Early in Ju w lie plastered six Jap barres on the Stw Gainca coast. Said the AP dispatch, WMtinc lUm: "The six barces were richt tacether. We laade about 20 passes over them, so I (aeas they had a pretty nugh time of it. I saw two of them sink and another end ap and sinldnr. 
John flew one of the bombers which sank one of Japan's krcest sobs at Lae. New Gainea. last March 19. He is also credited with heavily damacinff a 5,000­ton enemy carco vessel in- the battle of the Bismarck Sea in early March. 

Mrs. Jack Cole is remaining with her parents in South Bend while her husband, a lieutenant in the'Army Air Cbrps, is in the far places. 
From Lt. (jr) John W. Meaney, USNR, Staff of Comsapae, cjo Fleet Post Office, San Fran­cisco, came a typical Heaney letter, written on June 1. Quotes: "The latest 'Alumnus* was cer­tainly a very welcome visitor in these parts. You are doins a tremendously good job to keep it coming to us in these times and in these far places. . . Since being out here I've seen Donr Banvert, '40, and had a wonderful visit with him down on a . coral beach, thinking and talking Notre Dame. . . Others of class of 1940 that Pve seen in the South Pacific: Panl Lenihan, now a Marine captain flying transport planes, and Bed Martin, a philosophy major, who has gone to sea wearing a gold bar for the Navy." 
(For further news of the decorated Bancert, per Meaney, see "boxed" story nearby.) 
When Lt. Bob Snllivan. 94th Troop Carrier Sq., 439th GGG, SEEF, Warrensburg, Mo., was at Notre Dame to be married not so many weeks ago, he generously dropped Into the Alumni Of­fice to leave the following news about '40s and almost '40s, as of then: Faal Glass, 3006 Stocker St., Los Angeles, working in production at Douglas Aircraft; 1st Lt. Jim Metzler, Marine Barracks, U. S. Naval Operating Base, Navy No. 220, c/o Fleet Office, N. Y. C.: Bad Gcntncr. Ferry Command,—had flown to South Pacific 27 times; Tom Elder, recently married, AAF School of Applied Tactics, Orlando, Fla.; Jerry ClitTord, '38, sergeant, ditto; Frank Kopczak. second lieu­tenant, phy ed program, AAF, Atlantic City, 
N. J.; Ed SimMiich, Helena, Mont., civilian direc­tor. Navy phy ed program. Carroll College; 2nd L t J M HcKean. in phy ed, 47th Bomb Sq., Army Air Base, Portland, Ore.; 2nd Lt. Pat B.:nnon, AAF, AIS, Harrisburg, Pa. 
DOUG BANGERT DECORATED 
Capt. Doaxlas Bancert. MO, of the 

Marine Corpi, pilot of a torpedo bomber. 
has* received the Diitinvnished Flying Cross 
for pnttinff torpedoes (the pinral is riKht) 
into a Jap battleship dorins the Battle of 

Guadalcanal, according to a letter from 
hU (jff) John W. Heaney, '40, also in 
(he Soothem Pacific. The battleship is one 
of those listed as definitely sunk. John 
said. Dooff is executive officer of his 
squadron. 
Brother CamiUns nnd Brother Lawrence in June received their master's degrees in social work from the University of Chicago after two years of graduate work. They will work in the core of juvenile delinquents. 
When he wrote from the Navy Pre-FIight School at Chapel Hill, N. C, on June 24, Joe Thesinff was rooming with Tom "Kitty" Gorman, *33. Also there then were Don Elser and Andy PUney (who was to leave soon for Athens. Go.), and Dan Hanley, all Notre Dame footballers of not so many years back. 
The following inspiring tribute to a man of '40 (whose death was made known in the June "Alumnus",) came from Rev. J. P. F.-gan to Bishop John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., to the Alumni Office: 
"Fterhaps you remember one of your N. D. men by the name of Lt. Edward H. Phelan, Jr., of Whittier. Calif., killed in action in the Middle East March 22. At that time I was tak­ing care of the Bomb Group from which he was operating. Edward used to be at evening Mass and (Communion every evening. He bad received the Sacraments the night before he was killed. He was a tali, thin, red haired pilot (co­pilot.) He was co-pilot with the squadron leader. Captain Ingram, 83 Bomb Sq. 12th Bomb Group. All in the plane were lost. Of course we all felt very badly. The following evening I said Mass for Edward and all the Catholic Officers of his squadron and another squadron were present, as well as many enlisted men. The number of combat men who have attended Mass and re­ceived the Sacraments daily was very inspiring. We shall never forget their great devotion first to God—and secondly to Oiuntry." 
Addresses: Lt. (is) Daniel F. Sallows, Base 3P, Navy 131, c/o Fleet Post office, San Fran­cisco ; Lt. William Edffar Douffherty, Jr., 0-1050236. 501 Ctaast Artillery (A.A.). Batterj- E.. APO 726. cjo Postmaster, Seattle, Wash. 
Ensirn Harry C. Thomas receives his mail through the Fleet Post Office, N. Y. C. Joe O'Con­nor was in Australia \rfien he wrote in early July: "The Catholic chaplain of our regiment. Father Hallinan, is a Notre Dame graduate," he said. "I believe his home town is in Ohio. The soldiers of the regiment idolize Father Hallinan." 
(Father Paul Hallinan, '32, is from Cleveland —Eds.) 
Ensim Ben Murdoch, recently married, is in the Atlantic as assistant navigator on his ship accord­ing to a South Bend scout. 
Lt, Don Foskett. 0-1580954. Halifax Sub-Port of Embirkction, Hnlifax. Nova Scotia, on July 7 sent another grand sample from his typewriter. He had met Jim Lovett, ex. *42. up in those parts. Jim is now a lieutenant in the Canadian Army. Concerning Jim, Don said: "He was a resident of the Old Infirmary back in '39, just before she went down in a blaze of glory. Many's the night we have passed here discussing the exploits of the ShelloTK brothers, Pat O'Hara. Georffe McMorrow and alt the rest of the Old Infirmary denizens. Bzlieve me, it was a pleasant surprise to run across somebody sportinsr a ND te!t buckle. It brought me back in a hurry." 
Capt. Bill Hannan was sraduated some time aso from the reserve officers' school of the Marine Corps at Quantico, Va. 
1941 
Svt John W. Patterson, Jr.. 5530 Dar­lington Rd., PitUbnrth, Pa. 
Sfr. Jchn W. Patterson, Sr., the highly efficient secretary pro tern of the class, forwarded to the Alumni Office a letter and a contribution to the (^ntenary Fund, both from Mrs. C. S. Rejent. mother of Sgt. Ron Rejent, who is (was) in Eng­land. 
John Larson is night publicity manager for station WJZ. Blue Network. Inc., 30 Rockefeller Plaza, N.Y.C. Lt. (jg) Boh McLanshlin is receiv­ing his mail through the Fleet Post Office, San Francisco. Chief Bos'n Mate Jackie Hayes is a machine gunner in the Pacific according to his father, who sent a financial contribution and a note for Jack. Mr. Hayes wrote about his son: "His first nine months in the Navy he was sta­tioned at Newport, R. I., as chief boxing instruc­tor, but later asked for active duty and was trans­ferred to gunnery. He writes that he met Bill McGannon, his roommate at N.D. McGannon is in the physical education program and stationed at Mare Island, Calif. He also met Maloney who was a member of the '39 squad." 
Latest addresses: Capt. Roger C. Foley, H-2, Ninth Marines, c/o Fleet P.M., San Francisco; Pvt. Philip R. McFarland. 8th (^neral Hospital. APO 502, c/o P.M.. San Francisco; Pv t Bernard 
J. Chenal, (cryptographer—^Algeria), Hq. Sq., Fifth Wing (US) APO 520, c/o PJI., N.Y.C; Pfc James G. Newland, Army Admininstation School, Br. 8, Class 9. William Henry Hotel, Washington and Jefferson College, Washington, Pa.: Ensigm Donald C. Tiedemann, Assistant to Supply Officer, Naval Air Station, South Wey­mouth. Mass. Don (see "Marriages", this issue) 
v.ill after Sept. 6 be at the Naval Supply School, Soldiers Field, Boston. 
An elegant letter came through from Field Artillery Lt. John »L Hennessy. c/o 1717 Edenside, Loutsvillle. who. operating out of Camp Polk. La., was on maneuvers when he wrote on July 27. In Leesville. La.. John had seen Ist Lt. Sammy Neild. and about him said: "Sam has lost plenty of weight but looks good. He is in the Held Artil­lery of the 31st Infantry Division and expects to be promoted to a captain shortly." 
Hennessy continues: "About two months ego I had a 10-hour layover in Memphis upon my return to Camp Gruber, Okla., from a leave spent in Louisville. While in Memphis I spent my time with relatives of Bill Foley and Jim Welsh. At that time Ensign Welsh was in New Caledonia and Cadet Foley at Pensacola. Upon alighting from the train in Louisville the first person I saw whose face looked familiar was Bob Snss. 
"Joe MoUigan now signs a lot of letters *Mr. and Mrs. Joseph P. Mulligan.* Merve Bacan is an ensign some place. Tom Hirscfaaacr, a Michigan University law student, writes that he is studying the legal aspects of how to get even with guys that poured water in your bed for four years. . . . Bill Cottei*. .. . is on the high seas as a lieutenant jg . . . Bob Bischoff .. . is en ensign John Holland is a Schenectady, N.Y., insurance salesman. About a year ago I saw Charley Dillon at Ft. Sill, Okla." 
And Hennessy closes with two pages of yearn­ings for the class of '41. for the 'old days' and especially for what used to be the 'hardships' of those days, such as setting up for 8 o'clock classes. Put back on the campus, he says, he "wouldn't even mind helping Biljh Ciem with his home work one more time." 
"Hie Jordan Independent" of June 10 carried a magnificent editorial on Eiwiga Jaka €L Caacy* written by his father, John E. Guer. editor and publisher of the pap^. Those of ttte clus who were partleolar txieads of John may be interested in writing to Jordan, Minn., for a copy. John, as yoa read in the Jane "Alamnns." was lolled in action in the Paofic 
SAGGAU rABBIFS THE BAIX 

One of the «eat aeted aad sarcwfal 
dive kaHbcrs ia the Padftc U Easica Beb 
Sanaa. la effidal dispatcfcca f ran Vaited 
States Air Headqaartera la Gaadalcaaal, 
Beh was credited with havias CApkJid a 
sheQ danp ased hy the last Japaaae 
ield laa at Viia harher an the west ceast 
of New Geaisia Islaad. Dive baaAcn htt­
tiaff at the catrcached Japs enabled the 
Aaericaa craaad farces »sfciay iaitlal 
landiass at Wichhaai's l.aadla« aad Ti n 
to crash reaistaace «aicfclr. 
Mr. Patterson, John's father, forwarded to the Alunmi Office a letter which Lt. GhaiUe Gerard* of the Marines, had written on May 21 to the class sec. We ^ve you some Inspirinir excezpts: 
"In the past two years I have had occa^don to meet up with a number of N.D. Marines as well as Navy man. but as far as I know I am the onlr 
N.D. paramarine. I nnderstand that Ed Faddi is in the parachute aduml, hat as yet he hasn't been assigned to oar reginient. 
**Capt. Webster* Idlled in the recent eampaisn* on the Island was a very dear friend of mine; as we both lived in Mishawaka, so commuted tosether for our four happy years at NJ>. 
"Then, there was Lt. Jerry Fi^cr* '41, Lt. Kay Winey. '40, Lt. FVcd Stabbias, '40, Capt. Lahcr, '40, all of whom I ran across ^ther at Quantico or on this tropical island. Ihere are many of us in the Marine Corps and I am sore all are doubly proud to claim the title of a NJ>. Marine, for is not the motto of all the sons of N.D. 'Semper Fidelis?' 
"I have been in the Marine Corjis close to two years now. Began as a private at Parris Island, 
S. C, and gradually evolved into a lieutenant in the parachute regiment, after seven weeks of rigorous training at Camp Gillespie in San Dieso, CaUf. 
"Just two and a half months ago I left the shores of Oilifomta for this typical tropical island in the South Pacific I have a hard hitting, well trained group of men in my platoon. I call th«n the "Irish Rockets." They are a plenty rozsed ki , these 'chute leathernecks, and everyone of than respects Notre Dame, so we hit it off ouite weU. I am mis^ty proud of my 35 men as they have the spirit of a N.D. team, and that's what it takes to lick the Japansies. 
"When we *hit the silk.' for that supreme test, we shall be ready to give our all, tor if our arms are gone we shall Uck the enemy to death, if we lose our legs, we shall bite him to death, and if perchance, our teeth are knocked out, we shaU glare him to death. Perhaps we shall have that chance soon as we have been training and waiting' for months, so are eager." 
When its public relations department last re­ported. Sad Lt. Larry MiiewsU was asmstant officer in charge of a signal section at the Okla­homa City Air Depot, linker FleU, Okla. Naval Aviator BUI Foley was coaunissioned an enrign at Pensacola. Fla. Sad Lt. Jim Spdlmaa is (was) at Dale Mabry Field. Tsllahassee, Fla. 
Recent commissions: Jolin Coppineer, at the Paropa. Texas, flyins school; Jim Catlierry, at Turner Field. Albany. Ga.; John Soongr, at the Adjutant General's OCS. Ft. Washinfiton, Md..— all three second lieutenants. Joe Ryan, naval flyer, is .at Corpus Christi, Texas, after completing his primary flight training at Glenview, III. 
Lt. C Gard OliTcros* latest address: Sdoth Bombing Group, Army Air Base, Ephrata, Wash. Gard was on the campus for a short visit on June 6. 
1942 
Williast E. Scanlmn, 101 W. Pleasant 
Commissions: Aviator Matthew J. Miller, en­sign. Corpus Christi, Texas; William A. Hosinski, second lieutenant, quartermaster school. Camp Lee, Va.; Aviator Joseph M. Shields, second lieu­tenant. Marines, Pensacola. Fla.; Aviator William 
F. McGrath. ensign. Pensacola, Fla. 
Addresses: 2nd Lt, Charles W. Cavanangh, 0-1310572. Co. C. 9th Bn.. 1st Rep. Depot, APO 761 c/o FJI.. N.Y.C.; Ensign John E. Costa, Pacific Fleet Post Office. San Francisco; Ensign Bernard A. Crimmini. M.B.T.. Ron. 21. cjo Fleet P.M., N.Y.C.; Ensign Francis B Qninn, U. S. Naval Activities No. 1. U.S. Navy No. 138, c/o Atlantic Fleet P.O., N.Y.C: Ensign James H. Ford, Navy 122. Box 77, (Canal Zone), c/o Fleet P.O., San Francisco; Lt. David C. Johnston (Marine air torpedo bomber pilot), U.S. Marine Base, Ft. Lauderdale. Fla.; Ensign Edward J. Emmenegger. Naval Supply Corps School, Hamil­ton Hall 14-D. Har\'ard University, Soldiers Field. Boston. 

It took seven months for a card from CpL Charles IL Botterworth. ex. '42, to reach his mother in South Bend. Charlie is a prisoner of the Japs as the result of the Philippines' fall, and he wrote the card on Dec 19, 1942. His mother was notified last May that he was being held prisoner. 
Lt. Jim O'Donohoe. commissioned on March 31, is (was) assistant exchange ofiicer at Ft. Ord. Calif. Lt. John T. Walior. ex. '42, of the Army Air Corps. led one of those numerous bombing raids on Hamburg not long ago. Dick Lindroth is working for the Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Corp., South Charleston, W- Va. 
From Scoop Scanlmn: 
Relayed by Sgt. Fan! Neville, this "lead-off let­ter" comes from Tom Powers: 
"Just finished a 10-day furlough. . . Stopped at Notre Dame a day to see my brother. Father Joe Powers, and while there got to see Father Hugh O'Donnell, Ftmnk Leahy. Ed McKeever, Ed Kraosc, Jim Armstrong and Bill Dooley. Saw John Don* nelly in the A.A. office and Ray Donovan of our class in the Publicity Office. The campus looks as beautiful as ever—and perhaps more colorful than ever before with the lAarines, sailors, mid­shipmen, officers, the WAVES and the 20 or 3D different garbs of the nuns attending the sum­mer session. Saw Prof. John Scannell of the Phy Ed department and Bob McAnliCfe, the civil­ian member of the Prefect of Disdpline's office, just as soon as I stepped off the train. Saw films of the Southern Cal football game. The day I was there Bill Farley, the man at the gate, got word that his son had been killed. Tom Ryan is still night watchman at St. Ed's. 
"I stopped in for a chat with Father John Bnrke. Also had five days with the family in Enid, Okla. While there found Lt. Devere Flnn­kett was based at the Air Field teaching the cadets. My brother John and T. E. McCreedy, both of '43, are still at Camp Welters, Texas, brown as nuts, slim and acting corporals in the 58th In­fantry. 
"Came back from furlough just in time to find Marty Fitzpatrick. Bill Fsrrell and Bemie Marbadi in the ranks of the swarm of selectees. Iheir whole class of meds was taken into khaki and will go back to Columbia Med School as privates first class. After internship come the commissions. Fitzpatrick said Earl Dean was an ensign on a sub-chaser in England, that Ken Kir­by, Jeff Davis and Charley Tobin had come through midshipmen school recently at Columbia. Also that Jim Burke is an instructor in the Army some place. 
"Farrell said Bemie McKay is a first lieutenant in the Marine regulars, having graduated with the top 10 of his class. He's a judo instructor on the side. Remember when he used to sign his cartoons in the '^Scholastic ?" Farrell told me about spending a whole night waiting for Joe Rodgers outside Madison Sauare Garden in New York with two front row tickets while Joe was inside sitting in the bleachers, the guest of a friendly major. 
"Heard from Louts Schim IH. He's a first lieutenant in the Motor Transport Corps in Lou­isiana awaiting overseas shipment. He was in that last group of us to share old Freshman Hall along with the late Milton Connelly, Don Gngliel­mino, Ed Ryan, Leo Lsnigan and Ken Kirhy. Just missed contacting Lanigan in Chicago. Ife left for a Texas camp just before I arrived in Chi­cago. Elmer Layden has everything in order in Chicago. 
"The freshmen quartermiler of this year's crack N.D. relay team. Bill Leonard, was at Camp Upton for a couple of weeks awaiting 
E.R.C. and I managed to get to talk to him. While in St. Louis a month ago I called Jim O'Neal's home and found he is now stationed in Miami and is a lieutenant, junior grade, now. At last report, Frank Lavelle is still working for Spemp in Brooklyn. 
"I've been dabbling around in Special Service work after hours, working with the camp news­paper, organizing a company orchestra, glee club and a softball team. Just before my furlough I headed a detail of 11 from Camp Upton for the Entertainment Conference for the Second Service Command at 52 Broadway, New York. There were plenjy of Broadway stage and radio stars there giving us tips, demonstrating and coach­ing us on entertainment. It went three days and was well worth the effort. At a party at the Fred Waring studios the first night of the con­ference, I was seated by Donna Day of the Waring Troupe and Pvt Jack SkelUr. *40, who is stationed at Fort Dix, N. J. 
"Am riding trains almost constantly, hustling prisoners of war," 
(The class will hear with regret that soon after he wrote this Tom's mother died in Okla­homa—Eds.) 
A brief note from George UW of Indianapolis, who had met Red Buckley and his -wife there. Red is at Stout Held. Indianapolis, in the Air Corps. 
Next, Lt. Andrew J. Chlebeck from Camp Pen­dleton, Oceanside. Calif.: 
" • -. I've been working out with the camp baseball team now and then, trying to take the kinks out of my back. Noticed where my roomie, Paul Patten, is now in the Na\'y Air Ck)rps some place in California. . . Every now and then I run into a N. D. fellow in Los Angeles." 
Set. Robert C Uhl signs in from Keesler Reld. Miss., again: 
"Just returning from a trip to Cheyenne, Wyo., and was able to make it home for a few hours. Hope to get a furlough in August." 
A newcomer to our writing corps takes over from here. It is S/Sgt Dick Owens of Camp Breckenridge, Ky,: 
"• . . I am now (June 30) at home, ending a 10-day furlough, and waiting until train time to start for Duke University and the Finance Candidate School. Since Aug. 22, 1942, I have been stationed at Camp Breckenridge, just across the Ohio Biver from Bob Hatvrave's home town. Evansville. Ind. 
"Ihe only Notre Dame boys I've met in the Army are B«b Bowers, ex. *43. who has been in the same outfit with me since Aug.. 1942, and Lt. CamU A. MidieU. *40, who, since Decem­ber, has been at Camp Breckenridge as assistant adjutant. I have been punching a typewriter in the same office as si)ecial orders clerk. The last I heard from Dldc Kern, in February, he was at Camp Welters, Texas, getting ready to go to Fort Benning infantry OCS." 
Shortly before he entered active service. Red Rice, the phy-ed, wrote from Reedsburg, Wis.. where he had been coaching and teaching: "I'm still single and \i*ill remain so for quite some time. The last two months I have been head coach of track and, if it wasn't for the war. I've a few fellows Doc Handy would be interested in for the 
N.D. track team." 
It's now Pvt. James J. Rice, Army, Air Corps. 
The best writer among the lawyers, Mrs. Lora Lashbrook, comes through with another of her splendid summaries: 
^'BID Blooney is with the FBI in Milwaukee. His daughter, Frisdlla Ann. should now be old enough to keep Bill busy in what used to be his free time. Jim McGoIdrick is still FBI-ing in Detroit, unless recently transferred. The other G-men have re­ported personally during the past weeks. Bob Rich­ardson is in Louisville. Jim Lang has been trans­ferred from Louisville. Lt. Bob Snllivan of Sedalia Army Air Base at Warrensburg, Mo., came back to the campus July 6 to be married to a Cleveland girl. 
**Lt> J. J. Barr, USMC, was heard from in a letter from Camp Elliott. San Diego, Calif. He re­ported a pleasant visit with the folks at St. Louis, including a 'delegation' from St. Mary's. Leo Lincfc is still with the Michigan Supreme Court in Lan­sing, getting some fine experience in Supreme Court procedure. His injured arm is much improved and he expects to be called to military dnty with the communications division of the Army Air Corps before long. 
**EnsiKn J. J, Miller wrote us somewhere in the Pacific and gave us this address: c/o COM DBS PAO, Fleet Ptost Office. San Francisco., Calif. He was married before he left Notre Dame and his bride has returned. Lt. John Verdonk wrote from Fort McPherson, Ga., and is now a first lieutenant in the Provost BCarshall's Division. John was mar­ried last year here at Notre Dame. Harry and Loaie Anderson are in South Bend and both are in defense industries. Harry recently passed the Indiana bar examinations. 
"A. BL Bernard. Ensign, USN, wrote some time ago for information in connection with the Ohio bar exams, but has not reported recently. We assume his duties with the Navy preclude any cor­respondence except on official business. J. Allen Bnms is in the Army, but we have no information except that last February he was stationed in Florida. 
**Ed Kelly is a yeoman stationed in the Navy Recruiting office in Cincinnati. John Killen is a special agent for the FBI. but we don't know where. Jmme% Lancaster is a sergeant in the Army and is stationed on the west coast. Rocco Hon­tecna trained at Camp Wolters, Texas. John Ward 

The Notre D
a m e u m n u s 

also trained there, but is now in Salt Lake CSty. It was his report that told us of Ed Kelly and that Ed had been best man at the Ward -n-edding on May 1 in Chicago. 
"Jerry 0*Dowd is with the Navy in Washington and is now Ensign O'Dowd. We have information which indicates that Jerry gets into New York City occasionally for a week-end. Ward Rafferty is an ensign in the Navy and we understand is assigned to the Altantic Fleet. Henry Schrenker fl-as a visitor in South Bend a few weeks ago from his Naval Air Station in Illinois. His visit was during vacation and very few people here were privileged to see the ensign on that occasion. Didc Swisher, after assuring us that he was located in Chicago for at least five years, wrote this month for certificates of grades in connection with a California bar application. He decided that 'life is too short to spend it in Chicago,* so Mr. and Mrs. Swisher are now residents of California. Bill SyrinE is in Washington, working for Uncle Sam and doing some graduate work at Catholic Univer­sity. 
"Ernest Timpani was stationed at Camp Atter­bury, Ind.. recently. Lt. Alex Tsiolis trained in the Provost Marshal's Division at Fort Custer, Mich., then was assigned as an instructor in occupa­tional government. Last week (July 15) we had a letter from him from the mountains of North Africa. Our next communication may be from Italy. 
"Ensign Bagan is on active duty with the Fleet, and last reported from the South American area. Pete Alonzi is still stationed at Great Lakes. Jim Daner has been in South Bend working in a de­fense plant but will return to his home town in Michigan to accept a position as assistant prose­cutor. Jim Diver is now Cpl. Diver at Camp Adair, Ore. Lawrence Ferguson was given a med­ical discharge by the Army and is now employed in the legal division of the Bendix Corporation. DidE Fogarty is in South Bend, still single and working for a shoe company. 
"Ted Frericks is an ensign on duty with the Atlantic Fleet after completing his training at Abbott Hall, Northwestern. Bill Hogan left in early July for Army duty. He had been in South Bend since graduation. Bill Hosinski last wrote from Camp Lee. Va., and he was assembling material to submit with his application for OCS. Cecil Jordan is an ensign and was expected back in South Bend late in July to be married to Pat­ricia Bannon. Joe Lavery stitl promises us a pic­ture of the son in Colorado and was still prom­ising us from Camp Seiberling a few weeks ago. 
"Tim Maher was admitted to the Pennsylvania bar by appearing for his oath before the colonel of his outfit at Camp Robinson. As Hm said, 'that did his military career no harm.* Harry Murray is in the legal department of the Board of Educa­tion in Chicago. Jim Neo reported from Fort Sill, Oklfl.. having been reclassified and inducted several weeks ago. Jordan Hamel is still in Chicago work­ing for a bank there.*' 
By airmail, Lt. (jg) Phil Luder writes on May 28 from San Francisco: 
"The 'Alumnus* somehow managed to find me and it was swell to get the latest dope. I'm on a destroyer and it isn't so bad. Don*t hear from many of the boys but Pvt. Jack Bergen was last heard from in Miami, about ready for OCS school in Air Corps Administration. Joe Diamond was much disturbed because he had to ruin a good Sun­day chasing wandering prisoners from an alien camp in Wisconsin where he is stationed. 
"I made lieutenant (5s) the first of May. Would very much like to hear of the whereabouts of Jaka Horrii, concerning a little personal bet on the matter. .. . I was first assigned to the Juneau and fortunately missed the ship a few days before she was sunk. I'm supply officer on this ship. My old roomie. Bill DeCoarsey, was still at Jefferson Barracks. Mo., last I heard and is now proud papa of Bill, Jr." 
Sgt. Paul Neville, who sent on the "Leadoff Let­ter" from Tom Powers, has some worthy com­ments of his own. He has been transferred to the 386th Fighter Squadron, Langley Field, Va. He writes: 
"I left the paper and my old outfit at Richmond. Va., and have been transferred to I*angley field. Joe Lane blew in on me unexpectedly one Thurs­day night while I was down at the print shop making up the paper. He was on his way to little Creek, Va. and looked sharp in his new ensign's uniform. Emmett Kecnan is out of the Camp Bowie, Texas, hospital and working hard, he says. Unable to locate Joe Hrachovec*' 
Chicagoland papers round August 1 carried the announcement by Mr. and Mrs. T. F. Molyneaux of Kenihvorth, HI., (a Chicago suburb) of the en­gagement of their daughter Florence to Ensixn Bob Hargrave. Miss Molyneaux was a June grad* uate of St. Mary*s college. At present Bob is locat­ed at Fort Pierce, Fla. 
Three more ensigns were accounted for—Eddie Riska and George Sobek at Great Lakes and Jim Hackner via the Columbia University HidshiiK men's school. Riska and Sobek were recently trans­ferred from Great Lakes. But the class is repre-' sented by the arrival of Steve Jnzwik a few weeks ago. He recently completed "boot" training and was regarded as the No. 1 "name** athlete among the 1943 candidates for the Bluejacket football team. 
At one of the dances at the Service club at Fort Sheridan, I met Miss Jacqueline Adams, cousin of Pete Stewart of our class. At last re­port, Pete was at the University of Rochester, 
N. Y., continuing his medical course in the khaki of Uncle Sam. 
Ray Donovan came through with a letter in June and said in part: **Joe Sullivan, sax star of the Cavaliers, is now training in the Army radio school in Chicago. He moved from Janes­ville. Wis., to Milwaukee and finally wound up in the Windy Qty." 
I got down to Wilraette, III., to see Bob Loner­gan, now on Arch Ward's staff at the "Chicago Tribune.** Bob spent the Aug. 1-2 week-end at Notre Dame and is as red as a beet after get­ting some sun on a beach on days off. 
Charley Kleibacker, postcards from Birming­ham, Ala., that he has been working on the staff of the "Birmingham Age-Herald." Bill Reynolds wrote from Camp McCain. Miss.: 
"I've seen exactly one N. D. man since I've been here—Dan Quiney, '43. He is also stationed at Camp McCain. Bill Boss is still carrying on at Notre Dame. I hear from Prof. Cooney. The last time I heard from him. Bob LcMense was in California. Gerry Grant, ex. '43, (brother of Don, *42), from Freeport. III., now cftlls my eldest sister, Mary, wife. She is quite haPpy as Mrs. Grant, too." 
Two Notre Damers are still at Fort Sheridan 
Lt. CoL Raymond J. Kelly, commanding oflS­
cer of one of the antiaircraft units here, and Lt. 
Robert Flannery who called today to say that 
Arch Ward wanted some information on the ap­
pearance of the Cincinnati Reds in an exhibition 
game against the soldiers. Col. Kelly*s son, Ray, 
has recently been promoted to lieutenant (jg). 
He is with the Atlantic Fleet, operating out of 
Little Creek, Va. 
So long for now. Remember: 
IF ir S NEWS. ^\'RITE SCOOP. 
Jaka Allem is a cadet at the Army Flyinff School. Enid, Okla. He was a staff sergeant and had won bis wings as an aerial gunner before he entered cadet training. Bab CaartBey* a mem­ber of the 455th Base Hq. ft Air Base Sqaadnm, was promoted to sergeant at the Dodge City Army Air Held. ^nsas . Lt. Dan Hilgartaer is "chairman of the board" and business manager of "250 Ramp-Pages." a mimeo sheet put out by his outfit, the 250th Station Hospital, Camp Phillips; Kansas. Dan is also directed of ath­letics of his nnit and was named "Officer of the Week." 
Ed SalliTan is still a medical student at Georgetown and residing at 3900 Edmonds St., 
N. W., (Apt. 2). Washington 7, D. G. Bak Kehae, Rochester, N.' Y.. greeted the Alumni Offiee on Aug. 3. On Aug 4 he entered the C.S.C Novitiate. St. Joseph's. Rolling Pnurie, Ind. Beraie BrcU is a test engineer with General Electric, Syra­cuse, N. T. 
Ray Eidmdaah, Jr., previously reported as missing in action, was r^)orted on Aug. 4 as safe in Sicily. 
1943 
Eaiin Uini4 C BMWT. ITtt tmmmti An^ IMnit.iadk 
A/S Jar R Marttac is at North Carolina State Collese, Raleigh, for a cooiae of studies pre­liminary to his appointment as an aviation cadet. He is editor-in-elUef of "the IMo," printed each week by the S9th College Training Detachment, and aids in the direction of the program, *'Wings for America" broadcast each -week over station WPTP, Raleigh. 
Jack Warner was in a coast artillery anti-air­craft anit at Ft. Fisher. S. C , hot expected to be sworn in as an air cadet on Jnly 7. Themas 
L. Atkias %vas named h<mor man of his company on eompleiian of his reemit training at the Great liakes Naval Training Station. Chaific Batkr and Jade Barry are both at Cblnmbia V., N. T. C in the midshipman school. Eraie Zimmer. 479 Bnctel Ave., Akron, and Nacaan Tan Sile. 97 Aqoedact St., Akron, are both with CkMdyear. 
Ensicn Bak Timmerman, his father writes, was in the Solomons at the latest report. Ensign Bin Ohrany is likewise somewhere in the T^dfic 
"I've been fortunate enough to get into the Army Specialized Training Program where they seem to think they can make a doctor oat of me if the war lasts long enongh," writes Pvt. Geante E. Hwrnpaan. Jr.. Co. E, A.S.TJ., 7th 
S.C.U. 3700, Angsborg Seminary Dormitory, 22nd Ave. and 7th St. S., Minneapolis. 
"We've had a very pleasant time here com­pared to my last post, Jeiferson Barracks. I've run into a number of the class of '43 at each post. I saw A] OBver the very day I arrived at Jefferson Barradcs. We were in the same sqoadron. He is now company clerk of Squadron C, 36th Training Group, Jefferson Barracks, Mo. At Ft. Niagara, I saw Hany Ziamer, '42, and Doe Lei*­inr, '42. both of whom are in the permanent party there. 
"l,3st Saturday afternoon I ran into Jim Downey here at Minnesota. He is taldng a pre-flight conrse here. As far as I know, we were the only NJ>. men at the University of Minnesota." 
Commissions: Aviator Jalui A. Miller, ensign. Carpus Christi, Texas; Aviator TlMmaa T. Bick­aids,' second lieutenant. Marines, Corpus Christi. 
Addresses: Pvt. Vil* W. CapeO*. APO 8893, e/o PJt: N.Y.C.: Ensicn Hark J. Lies. Atlantic Fleet P.O.. N.Y.C.; Lea F. Baymmd. APO 7017, e/o PJI., San Francisco: Ensign Dadley K. SaUtk. Fleet Record Office, 500 Howard St., San Fran­cisco; Ensign Paal J. Kashmer. Navy FJL 147. 
36 
c/o Fleet P.O.. N.Y.C ; CpL Fred C. Doatcl. 35550007, APO 4696. c/o P.M.. N.Y.C ; Ensign Qaentin C Starm. A,T.B., Little Creek. Va. 
From Ed Roney: 
Well, we're down here in Mizmi taking sub Chaser Training. This p'ace looks like old N.D. 
I think I've seen most of the N. D. boys by now, and they include Ensigns CI ir Lambert. Jim HcElray, Bob Wmlah. Charts S'eltman. Jack Gillisui. Blax HcCancbey, Jerry Gainsr, Jack Reis, Cbndi Kane, Pat Donoi-an, and those who cime with ms from Princeton: Tom Finucanc. J. 
J. Bsdcer, and Jim Girard. 
John Scliindl^r is in Key West according to Pat Donovan, who also says Ens. Cbnck Kralorcc was in fire control school in Washington, D. C, and.BiU Stewart, Jim Downsy, Joe Tracy, Pinky Walih, and John Bosak are over in the Army 

'' on Miami Beach. Don't start envying any of us our Miami for we're called the AEF—Americans Exiled in Florida—and it's the truth. It's been 100 or above since I arrived a week ago, 
I also understand from Don Heltzel and G^ne Fehliff at the N. D. midshipmen school that Frank Conforti, Bill Johnson, Tony Moloney and a good many others are \rith them there. Someone wrote that the group late of Camp Roberts. Calif., are now foreigners. If not. will one of them write in. 

Bob Walsh tells me that Bill Costcllo is still 'Waiting for his call and th^t Ed Doy!e is in Camp Farrin. Texas. Jim Girard saw Ramon Anijo here last night waiting for a clipper to Columbia and home. Jerry Gainer says Joe Gee-ken is in the Army's chemical warfare school out west but still a civilian. Also that Ensign Bill Olvany is in a naval school in San Francisco. 
Of the group at Princeton with me I can't say too much. Ensigns Bill Dvorak. Quince Sturm. Panl Tiemey, Bill Stiyksr, Ed Holland, and Bob Rihra headed for amphibious school in Vir­ginia. Bob at least wrote and said he liked it. Ensigns Gail Fitch, Pete Horitz, Tom Cooney, Fred Gore, Jim GaUacher, Joe Callahan are look­ing in Seasickness and "Italian in Ten Easy Les­sons" in a hurry. 
While home on leave I heard Ensign Ed Hickey -was on his way toward the "So Sorry" boys, as -was Ensign Bob HcCafferty. Bob flew over to his TT. Last report has Ensign Roge Cnmmings m-'.rN'eling at how easy you can miss with tor­-pedoes in a California school. Ensigns Bill Ford .and Steve Ensner are with him. News also reached me that Bob Gilletfe is in engineering 
•school on the USS Prairie State and Mike 
Comarford is in the Supply Corps school in Har­•^•ard. 
Heard Bill O'Connell. Ralph Carabasi. Bill Ter­It^den, and Georse Rciberdy are going to Jef­
ferson Med school in Phily and answer the tele­-phone with, "this is the old maid's home." En-sim s Bob Rocers is getting out of Fort Schuyler early in August, Ensim Fred KePcr is at the Bos­ton Navy Yard. Ensign Jade Harrigan is at a navy school at Bowdoin College, and Blario 3fassolio is an ensign somewhere. 
Ensigns Joe HiDehrand and Art Kirby are "boih on aircraft carriers, on different oceans. FInsign Bill SalUvan is on a cruiser, while Ensign 
•Oren
 Stein is on a transport. Frank King, my •old roomie, and I got together in N. Y. one -week-end. He's making $10 a day and in a 

•stew
 because V-7 hasn't called him as yet. 


Got a card from Joe Haas and he's now a sergeant but still at 336th Bomb. Group. 479th Bomb. Sqdn, Avon Park, Fla, He'd like to hear all his old friends. Also a letter from Cari Heascr faying he was to get out of Columbia V-7 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
June 11. Bill Midddndorf writes that he also is there and Harry McKnight is with him. They became midshipmen July 20. 
From the "Wig" I get this, and it's as good as his first: 
"The Army's version of a 'back to college' move­ment, has ma here now at Princeton. Prof. Coty will be amazed to discover that my Spanish qualified me for Foreign Area and Language v.'ork. It has always fascinated me so I dumped aside my OCS acceptance for this work. This Army seems very devoid of N.D. men [they're all in the Navy. Wig]. The only one I've seen is Veet Capcllo and he's undoubtedly at some POE by now. I understand that thera are a number at my old post. Ft. McCIellan. and they even managed a Communion breakfast a while back. Nothing much on the boys with whom I correspond but here's some dopa—Ed Hanrahan is now at Ft. Riley. Kans., sweating out basic. He reports that B saver Cbristman is a clerk there and Paul Halloy a cadre. 
"Paul Weber is somewhere. My last letter from him was written during his waning moments of schooling at Oklahoma in Air Corps Administra­tion. 
"Howard Har!ow is at Keesler Field. Miss. —• just an Army Joe College.*" 
Thank you. Blair McGowan, Joe Haas rnd John Powers are my ace correspondents with two apiece. I really appreciate it and by all msans call again. 
A surprise letter from Stan PJTI U winds vp this issue correspondence. FVom Stan: "As you know. I was invited to Ft. Sheridan some five months ago along with several other N. D. men— Joe Trilling. Jim O'DcnneU, Bob LeHcnse, and Godfreys, Tony Girolami, and others. Joe and I were sent to Ft, B. Harrison to learn about how the army pays the men every month. N. D. was well represented there. Ed Beagan and I went through together with Joe following. T/5 George Blackmore: was also there. 
"I was very pleasantly surprised recently upon coming in from a pass. I woke up the fol­lowing morning hearing myself addressed as Corporal. Later I was notified ofiicially that I was promoted to Technician, 5th grada. as of the 29th of June, and assigned to a foreign cadre. 

Bob Kasberg and Jade Reis got their commis­sions as ensigns sometime in April. The last I heard, one of them was in Norfolk, Va. [Must have been Bob as Jack is here in Miamil I guess by now our class is scattered all over the globe, but it sure is nice to read where a lot of them are and how they are doing. 
"I'm home on six-days leave right now but will prcbably be pulling out soon. Dropped down to school and saw some fellows, and the profs. Doc Kent says the new Navy and Marine men are mora attentive than we were." 
Thanks a lot, Stan, and I wish I could publish 

a little more of your letter. I have shown it to 
everyone here, though. Write agrin. 
Mr. Calkins, back at school, tel's me thr.t Frank Pachin is working for Chrysbr Corporation some­where. 
"Junior Membership Dept." — A s^n. Robert Edward, HI, was bom to Lt. and Mrs. Bob Morrill late in May. She is the former Charlee Hanley of St. Mary's and is now with Bob while he's training Marine recruits at New River, N. C. 
"Two-is-better-than-one-dept." — Howard Alar-low vras married in the Log Chrpel on July 12 and is stationed at Keesler Field. Miss. Tom Spencer, now at Chi. U., married a Chicago girl a few weeks ago. I could tell you who if he'd write. Leo Blatz slipped a wedding ring on the finger of Martha Ann Schaub last April. 
These are the only five letters this month. Pretty terrible. I realize that many of the men are leaving the country but the majority of you are still here. ITiis is the last school I'll attend and. therefore, the .last group of our classmates I'll run into. I can't very well signal every ship I pass, "What's the N.D. news?", so. as you can see. the column will be rather short if the rest of you that ha\'en't written don't get to work. This edi­tion would have only a column or so if it weren't for the news from the men here. So, how about a little action? It doesn't take more than a post­card. Hie address remains the same and is at the top of every edition. 
Congratulations and thanks to those who con­tributed to the Centenary Fund and helped the 

class and the Alma Mater.  
•nil  October  end  our  anniversary  edition  
then, so long end WRITE.  £ D  

NOTRE DAME BOOKS 
(Continued from page 13) 
study the organization of North Africa as a base of operations in case of a gen­eral European War. 
This was not his first service with a military mission, for he was a member of the one sent to Poland by the French Government imder the command of Gen­eral Weygand in 1919. During the 10 years preceding the present war, he lec­tured frequently at the Ecole de Guerre in Paris on strategical and tactical sub­jects. After the fall of France, he was designated commander of the First For­eign Division to be formed with regi­ments of the Foreign Legion. In 1940, Col. Sweeny organized and commanded the First Eagle Squadron in England. 
UNIVERSITY SEEKS WAR RECORDS 
Catholic heroes of World War II will find the University making every effort to assemble and preserve their records. 

Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C, '25, University archivist, advances three reasons for the new project in his in­vitation to parents, relatives, friends and chaplains to contribute to the deposi­iory all possible records, letters, me­morials, etc. 
Notre Dame has accumulated through­out its hundred years a rich collection of American Catholic historical matters, so outstanding that it has long been des­ignated the Catholic Archives of Ameri­ca. The record of Catholic heroes of the present world war is a logical addition to this collection. 
The failure of any agency to make this effort during World War I has caused a serious loss to the history of the Church in America. 
And the third urgent reason for the movement is the repeated request from chaplains everywhere to the University to make this contribution to the war's history. 
The No tre Dame Alumnus 
Centenary Fund, Alumni Particdpation 
(Complete as of August [, 1943) 
FINAL REPORT (See Story on Page 4) 

Halpin, Geotee, '01 5.00 Moran, Major J. Bell; '07 500.00 Ryan, William R, 
Prior to 1890 2.50 
Oliver, James, II, '01 1.000.00 Rosenberger, Anton A., '07 10.00 Schubert, Lawrence P. 30.00 
McCormack, James, '67 (De­Simpson, Arthur T., '01 10.00 Summers, Dr. Edw. J-, '07 25.00 Sherry, WiUimn J. 65.00 
ceased) $ 25.00 
Smith, Edward C, '01 10.00 Cellicrate, Dominic L., '08 .— 10.00 Stoty. Edward J. 1.00 
Cullen, John T., '75 500.00 
Biiuman, E. Walter, '02 100.00 Ccparo, J. A., '08 5.00 Steers. Fred L. 
10.00 

Hale. Thomas, 15.00 
Brown, Henry E., '02 50.00 Cull, Frank X., '08 25.00 Tully, John C. 
200.00 

Perley, Arthur P., '79 10.00 
Corley, John L., '02 5.00 Daunt, William A., '08 10.09 Wilson. John M. 10.00 
Burke, Very Rev. Msgr. John Dukette, Francis F.. '02 27.00 Griffin, Peter M;, '08 1.00 Whitty. Elmer I. 5.00 
James. '8S 25.00 
Gaston. Francisco J., '02 10.00 Johnson, Chcrles H., '08 5.00 Wrape; Alba H. 5.00 
Fendrich, J. H.. 'So 5.00 
Hilding, Charles V., '02 10.00 McLain, B. F.. '08 10.00 
Boland. William H., '86 10.00 
Jones, Vitus G., '02 205.00 Parish, Varnum A., '08 5.00 
$ I.58I.50 

Bolond. Fran=is H., '89 2.00 
Mitchell, Clement C '02 100.00 Rath. Rev. J. Augustus, 'OS-5.00 
Judie, James A., '87 100.00 
Murphy, Robert D., '02 5.00 Roach. John W., '08 10.00 
Rothert, Huso C , '87 15.00 1912 
Quinn, Clement K. '02 5.00 St. George, Maximilian J., 'OS 125.00 
Kuffins, Charles H., '87 10.00 Bannon, Jfdm K. . 25.00 
Beechinor, Howard F., '03 10.00 Sinnott, Joseph D., '08 5.00 
Stubbs, Charles J.. '88 30.00 Brace. Edward U. 10.00 
Ckxiuillard, Ale.\is, Sr. '03 25.00 Toohey, James A., '08 20.00 
Crepeau. O. W., '89 5.00 Condon. Leo J. 5.00 
Crumley, Harry V., '03 10.00 Weiss, Henry E., 'OS 100.00 
Morrison, Vincent E., '89 1.00 Cook. William J. . 20.00 
Dohan, Joseph F., '03 5.00 Zink, Francis A., '08 5.00 
OockweOer. Thomas A. J. 5.00 

Hushes, Francis B., '03 5.00 Carville, Hon. Edward P., '09 15.00 
$ 7S3.00 Anonymous „ _ 3.000.00 
Kolupa, Ladislaus A., '03 30.00 Donahue, Joseph F„ *09 250.00 
Finnigan. Dr. Frank R. _ 5.00 

McKeever, Francis H., '03 23.00 Edwards, Howard W., '09_. 250.00 
Howard. Bev. Edward J. 

1890-99 Pick, Edwin E., '03 5.00 Gushurst, Albert F., '09 10.00 5.00 
Kaiser. Benedict J. . 5.00 

Ackerman, Francis X., '04 5.00 Kanaley, John B., '09 100.00 
Chute. Louis P.. '90 35.00 Lee. Jay L. 25.00 
DeFrees, Victor W., '04 5.00 Kaufer, John W., '09 25.00 
Cooney, James J., '90 5.00 HcCague. John F. 25.00 
Farabaugh, G. A., '04 300.00 Martin, Paul R., '09 5.00 
Bovine, William P.. '90 105.00 HcGiU. Robert J. 2.00 
Griffin, Rt. Rev. Msgr. McBride, Edmund L., '09 2.00 
Long, Ferdinand G., '90 10.00 McGIynn. Joseph B. 355.00 
Maurice F., '04 250.00 McCarty, Dr. Hiram G., '09_ 10.00 
Manley, John M.. '90 10.00 Murphy, John P. (Pledge). 1.000.00 
Hammer, Hon. Ernest L., '04 105.00 Oe'erich, Joseph F., '09 4.00 
Herman, John L., '91 2.50 Peak. Hon. J. Elmer 100.00 
Jones, Thomas J., '04 100.00 Oltsch. George J., '09 25.00 
Vurpillat, Francis J., '91 5.00 Phillip. Phillip J. 20.00 
Kanaley, Byron V.,'04 (Pledge) 500.00 Scanlon, Raymond J., '09 15.00 
Chute, Frederick B., '92 35.00 Rush. Paul 5.00 
Meyers, Joseph J., '04 5.00 Schindler, John W., '09 100.00 
Fitzgibbon, James R., '92 10.00 Schumacher. Leo A. 210.00 
McCaHery, John C, '04 10.00 
Getchell, Francis H., '92 10.00 Weeks. Edward J. 5.00 
Proctor, Robert E.,'04 (Pledge) 300.00 $22,840.00 
Donahue, Michael A., *93 — 25.00 
Quinlan, John M., '04 10.00 
McKee, James A., *93 * 4.827.00 
Record, James R., '04 10.00 
(Deceased) 25.00 1910 
Stanford, Grattan T., '04 1,000.00 George L. O'Brien. '93 11,100.00 Steiner, Arthur E., '04, 5.00 Connell, James J. „-™ 10.00 1913 Bolton, Hon. Francis A., '94-10.00 160.00 Degen, Gerald T. 5.00 
Stephan, Anton C, '04 Blake. Richard V. t 5.00 
Fitzgerald, Christopher C , '94 20.00 Degen, Henry F. _ 5.00 
Zolper, Harry W., '04 50.00 Broussard. Clyde E. _ . l.SOO.OO 
Kirby, Maurice D., '94 5.00 Dolan, Samuel M. 1.00 
Bums. Dr. John T. _ 5.00 

McCarty, Frank, '94 1.00 Draper, William A. 10.00 
$ 4,652.00 Byrne. Joseph M.. Jr. . 500.00 Cullinan, Eustace, Sr., *95 5.00 Finnegan, Wales E. . 5.00 
Byrne. Paol R. . 100.00 Davis, Frank W., '95 2.00 Herr, Stephen H. 10.00 
Cartier. Morgan E. » 5.00 Hudson, Hon. Arthur P., '95 100.00 Janszen, Lawrence J. 1.00 
1905-09 Corcoran. Dr. William J. . 15.00 
Sshnur, Martin J., '95 25.00 Lynch, Edwin J. __ 10.00 
Devitt. James R. 5.00 . 

Smith, Oscar F.. '95 5.00 Fahy, Bernard S., '05 5.00 
Moriarty, Rev. Michael L. — 15.00 
Fitzpatrick. Kp=ne 5.00 Barton. Dr. Francis W., '96-_ 5.00 Gruber, Earl F., '05 _ 500.00 Nagelsen, Lou M. -. 5.00 
GranfieU, Hon. WQliam J.. . 25.00 

Kuerze, Robert G., '96 5.00 Jamieson. William D., '05. _ 55.00 Schmitt. William C. 1, 100.00 
Hanlon. George T.. Jr. . 600.00 Monahan, Dr. Richard C , '96 5.00 O'Connor, Daniel J., '05 _ Woodford. Leon E. 10.00 
. 5.00 
Ha^es, C Byroa 6.00 

Wurzer, Louis C, '96 30.00 Stevens. Waller A., '05 — _ 30.00 
Herr. Jesse J. 35.00 Costello, Martin J., '97 100.00 
Van Rie, Dr, Leo P., '05 . _ 100.00 
S 1.177.00 Hognn. Willicm N. - 5.00 
._ 10.00 

Dannsmiller, Albert J.. *97 10.00 Welch, Thomas J., '03 Kaczmarek, Regiditis If. 5.0O 
_. 25.00 

Anonymous, '97 ]1.360.00 Bosler, William N., '06 — Kirk. Harry J. 10.00 
.10,000.00 

MacNamara, Rev. John A., '97 5.00 O>sgrove, Terence B., '06— I9II O'Connell. Hon. John F. . 100.00 
.. 200.00 

Quinn, James E., '97 300.00 Dubbs, James A., '06 Figel. Edward L, -.— 2.00 
O'Hanlon. Joseph R. . 30.00 Walsh, William A. '97 ..-5.00 Hancy, Charles E., '06 
5.00 Foley, Daniel R. -_ 10.00 
O'Nea. Thomas F. . 500.00 

_ 100.00  Chester 5.00 
Herins, Frank E., '98 Kobak, Edgar, '06 Freeze, D. Rebillot. Lawrence J. — 5.00 (Deceased) 1,100.00 Lally, Thomas A. E., '00 ... 5.00 Funk. Elmo A. 500.00 
Rogers. Edward J. 25.00 Montavon, William F, '98 __ 10.00 Madden, Ralph C , '06 —— 1.00 Glynn, Edward J. ™— 250.00 
Schonlao. K C. 10.00 McCormack, Michael J., '98.. 25.00 
McCarthy, Fr.:nk A., '05 _ 5.00 Kebenstreit. Anton R. . 5.00 McFarland, AIe.x W., '06 _ 1.00 Hilkert, Albert A. — 10.00 
* 3.596.0O $ 4,500.50 Morris. Ernest M., '06 _10.000.00 
Hope, James L. 5.00 
06 5.00 Ilughes. Arthur J. (Deceased) 5.00 
O'Briin. Rev. William C , ' 
0Hr3:, Albert B., '06 5.00 Kramer, Dr. James G. 50.00 1914 1900-04 Babbitt, Edwin D., '07 _ 5.00 Lawton, Jasper H. .^ 211.00 Birder. Cecil B. 5.00 Murphy, Joseph B. -. 5.00 Qements. Walter L. . 25.00 
Coquillard, Joseph A., '00 S 25.00 Bach, James H., '07 _ 10.00 07 Anonymous ICO.OO Dundon. Dr. John B. . 11.00 
Dorley, Anthony F. ,'00 5.00 (Corcoran, Rev. Wendell P.,'  25.00 
07 5.00 Pick, Carl 10.00 Farrell, Simon T. 25.00 
Ferstel, William G., '00 100.00 Cunningham, James V., __ 10.00 Quinn, Edmund J. 10.00 Hayes. FVaneis H. — 200.00 
Shells, Joseph P., '09 5.00 Gehant, Oliver L., '07 _ 5.00 Quish, Francis E. . 10.00 Hofflnan. Leo J. 25.00 
Slevin, J. L. Spalding, '00 5.00 GrifBth. John S., '07 5.00 Reeder, Earl E. — 25.00 Kane, Eocene A. S.00 
Best, Louis E., '01 15.00 Jordan, James D., '07 5.00 Reuss, Charles J. . 15.00 Kennedy. Dr. Thomas B. 5.00 
Carlton, Joseph R., '01 15.00 McDonald, Edwin A., '07_ Ruell, Ulric J. 25.00 Maber. Tbomss F. 13.0<^ 
Fox, Robert L., '01 10.00 Moore, John E.. '07—. ._ 25.00 
McGough.  Edw.  W.  6.00  Cassidy,  John  E.  260.00  Mullen,  WillUm  P. .  2.00  Daly,  William  J.  .  lO.OO  
Killer, Raymond  T.  S.OO  Cofall,  Stanley  B.  ­ 6.00  Overton,  Charles F. .  G.00  Dooley, James  R.  -  100.00  
Mulcahy, U.  CoJ. Francis  P.  50.00  Cooney,  Dr.  John  M.  55.00  Roberts,  Daniel  C. .  10.00  Dressel,  Fred  B.  -  25.00  
Redden,  William  J.  20.00  Corcoran,  Charles  G. _  6.00  Suttner, Joseph M. ...  5.00  Dundon,  Edward  J.  -  10.00  
Ryan,  Arthur  W.  10.00  Donvin,  Oscar  J.  ­ 5.00  Wrape,  Valda  .  5.00  Farley, Capt. Joseph  H. .  -  25.00  
Speidel,  John  G.  ..  25.00  Graham,  Raymond  J.  5.00  Foote,  Mark  A.  -  25.00  
Vaughn,  Charles L.  15.00  Haberer, Bernard V.  „  10.00  f S,518.00  Foren,  James  S., Jr.  .  15.00  
Walsh, Joseph M. Walsh, Thomas J. Walter, Martin E. $1915 Andrews, Maurice T. —— Bartholomew, Norman C. Berger, Alvin Carroll, William M. Dalan, Rev. Patrick H., CSC Eichenlauh, Raymond J. — Farrell, Joseph R. Grady, William A. Hosinski, Aloysius W. Hudson, Galvin G. — _ James, Qarence J. — . Kelleher, William A. Kuhle, Albert A. LaJoie. Ernest P. Lawler, James W. _ Madden, H. Daniel —.— Mathews, James A­ _™ Mooney, William J., Jr. — Munger, Harold H. —™ Newgass, Mitchell O. Ranstead, Norman H. ... Regan, Bernard M. — . Roach, Robert I>. Rohan, Howard J. Sanford, James E. — Sexton, Dr. Elmer B. ; Snyder, Henry B. Wells, March F. $1916 Beckman, Edward J. . Carroll, Hugh E. — Germak, Jerome F. _ Delph, Dr. John F. _ Downey, Russell H. . Eckd, Jacob E. Flynn, Joseph P. — Fries, Alfred F. Fritzsche, Allen W. . Galvin, Timothy P. . Hayes, lliomas A. Hiunphreys, Raymond M. — Keifer, Louis F, . Kelly, lit. Col. Raymond J. Kovacs, Joseph J. ~—. Lauerman, Frank J., Jr., Lennane, Charles R. Lentz, Charles E. McCorurt. Walter P. McLaughlin, Thomas A. .— McLoughlin, Joseph G. McCarthy. Dr. Jeremiah A. Meuser, William B. Miller, Grover F. ~-Muckermann, Richard C. Nigro, Dr. D. M. Odem, James F. Prall, Frederick M. Smith, Paul J. Stephenson, Joseph M. Swift, Frank E. Turner, William W.  10.00 25.00 50.00  629.00 6.00 5.00 3.00 10.00 25.00 30.00 27.00 5.00 25.00 15.00 10.00 5.00 2.50 26.00 6.00 5.00 10.00 26.00 20.00 3.00 2.50 6.00 50.00 55.00 2.00 5.00 3.00 1.00  384.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 200.00 10.00 S.OO 120.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 20.00 10.00 100.00 10.00 100.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 50.00 100.00 2.00 5.00  Hayes, James D. 1.00 Hilgartner, Daniel E. Jr. 10.00 Kelly, Thomas C. 6.00 Kiernan, Frank A., Jr. 1.00 Lacey, Hugh V. 10.00 Mahaffey, Frederick It. 125.00 McDonald, William B. 5.00 McOsker, Edward J. 2.00 Miller, Bernard H. 6.00 Miller, Jerome J. 26.00 Miller, R. John 25.00 O'Donnell, Dr. F. J. „ 66.00 O'Neill, Hugh M. 10.00 Parker, Howard R. (Deceased) 5.00 Quintan, Daniel J. 30.00 Reagan, Charles M. 206.00 Russell, Leon T. 6.00 Sackley, Rigney J. 25.00 Shea, John C. 25.00 Slackford, Frederick J. 100.00 Sullivan, Dr. Marion F. . 10,00 •Verbiest, C. Marcellus ­110.00 Vogel, Leo J, . 25.00 Voll, Bernard J. !,000.00 Walsh, James R. 26.00 Welch, Lawrence J. 6.00 Yockey, Claude R. 10.00 i 3,230.00 1918 Andrews, Francis A. , 6.00 Brown, Clarence H. __. 5.00 Cook, Leo L. 26.00 Cullinan, Frank L. 35.00 Dunn, Richard J. 5.00 Eigelsbach, Carl F. 10.00 Giblin, Vincent C. 30.00 Harbert, George E. — 10.00 Hellrung, Herbert G. . 30.00 Hoban, Thomas J. 26.00 Hurley, Francis J. 26.00 Hyland, Richard V. 125.00 Kirby, Arthur C. 5.00 LaFortune, Joseph A. 1,000.00 Lemmer, John A. „ 20,00 Mayer, I«onard F. 1.00 McAuliffe, Robert H. . 50.00 O'Connor, Earl T. 10.00 Ott, Lawrence, S.OO Reynolds, Edward J. 25.00 Riley, Joseph T. 25.00 Rodriguez, Dr. Rene 2.00 Ronchetti, Peter J, . 25.00 Schock, George A. _ 10.00 Starrett, E. Morris _ 1.00 Wagner, Louis E. 5.00 Williams, Rev. Charles J. . 100.00 Zoia, Clyde J. 10.00 $ 4,624.00 1919 Bader, Clarence W. 20.00 Carroll, Maurice J. 5.00 Fenlon, Paul 100.00 Finske, Louis J. 10.00 Fritch, Louis C. 100.00 Goheen, Holland W. 100.00 Huber, Robert E. _ 2.00 Joyce, Fred 2.00  1920 Balfe, John T. S.OO Bailey, James H. 6.00 Bcacom, Thomas H., Jr. 100.00 Call, Leonard M. 26.00 Doran, M. Edward 100.00 Fagan. Vincent F, . 5.00 Farrington, Francis S. ~ 2.00 Forster, Dr. Herbert E. 5.00 Hassenauer, Leo J. 5.00 Hauser, Eugene W. 6.00 Kenney. John E. 60.00 Leslie, Humphrey L. 6.00 Loosen, J. Paul _„_— — 26.00 Madigan, Edward P. 6.00 Anonymous 25.00 Meehan, Edward J. 30.00 Miller, Walter R. 25.00 Moore, Elwyn M, 100.00 Murphy, Francis J. . 6.00 O'Hara, Joseph P. 5.00 O'Sullivan, Clifford 26.00 O'TooIe, Eugene J. 10.00 Patterson, Dillon J. (Deceased) 10.00 Powers, John C , Jr. S.OO Reid, Clarence D. . 26.00 Rosenthal, Joseph D, 25.00 Swift, Richard B. 6.00 Thornton, Dr. Maurice J. — 25.00 Tobin, Very Rev. Thomas J. 25.00 Trant, James L. 25.00 Uebbing, Albert 2.00 Vurpillat, Dr. Francis J. — 5.00 Ward, Leo B. 5.00 Weis, Dr. Matthew W. 6.00 t 729.00 1921 Qcary, Gerald J. S.OO Conrad, Raymond J. 10.00 Craugh, Gerald J. — 10.00 Dettling, John A. — 10.00 Dollard, Thomas V. ­S.OO Drasek, Otto J. 6.00 Gorrilla, Dr. L. Vincent . 6.00 Grant. Donald 'Chef 31.60 Heimann, Dr. Joseph V. 6.00 Kasper, Thomas C. 2.00 Keenan, Donald J, 6.00 Kelley, Leo D. 10.00 Kenney, John E. 50.00 Kline, Clarence J. 25.00 Lally, Lenihan L. . 10.00 Maag, Joseph M. .. 10.00 McGann, Albert _ 50.00 Meagher, Edmund J. — 100.00 MUIer, Callix E. 6.00 Nyikos, Stephen F. 2.00 Rice, Walter A. 5.00 Sjoberg, Ralph E. 5.00 Tillman, Joseph L., Jr. 5.00 Trippel." Victor J, 6.00 Zickgraf, Henry P. 100.00 Zimmerer, Mark E, -.— 10.00 % 485.61 1922 Ashe, Gerald A. 32.00  Galloway, Robert P. - 20.00 Graf, Leo C 5.00 Hanrahan, Lt. Vincent J. _ 10.00 Heneghan, George F. 6.50 Higgjns, John T. . lO.OO Hirschbuhl, Charles J. -1,000.00 Hubert, Urban 3.00 Hnether, John J. . _ 10.00 Huguenard, Aaron H. - 75.00 Jones, R. Gerald 5.00 Kcefe, Dr. Thomas L. 5.00 Keeney, Arthur C. 5.00 Lovett, Leo J. 3.00 Iflmch, Cletus E. . 20.00 Mahoney, John . 25.00 Manion, Clarence E. _ . 25.00 McCabe, Thomas S. 3.00 McDermott, Paul I. . 250.00 Miles, Frank . 12.60 Mudd, Fabian T. 2.00 Hollin, Leo F. . 100.00 Murphy, James E. . 10.00 O'Connell, Daniel J. 5.00 Paden, Paul V. 25.00 Pater, P Vincent 10.00 Pfeiffer, Edward H. . 10.00 Pfohl, Paul J. 16.00 Purcell, William F. 5.0O Reardon, John B. 3.00 Reardon, Dr. John B. 25.00 Reichert, Romaine R. . 15.00 Rice, John M. 13.00 Schnettler, Herbert R. . 2.00 Scott, Hon. Alfonso A. . 10.00 Shea, Robert D. . 50.00 Shuts, Walter L. .' 28.00 Smith. Clarence E. S.OO Sternberg, Edwin L. (Estate) (Deceased) 508.24 Stewart, Joseph ^ 6.00 Stuhldreher, Walter J. . 10.00 Waldron, James R. 5.00 Weber, A. Harold 100.00 Wynne, Chester A. 6.00 Young, Daniel H. 70.00 Zwack, Clarence A. 1.00 $ 3,450.24 1923 Adrian, Michael J. 5.00 Bamhart, Henry F. 50.00 Booth, Murray J.. 2.00 Brennan, Martin H. 10.00 Brown, Vincent J. — 25.00 Bruggner, Louis V. — 50.00 Caldwell, Dr. C. J. — 8.00 Chapla, John P. -.. — 10.00 Cooney, Ralph M. 10.00 Cuddihy, J. Gerald 15.00 Culhane. J. Daniel — 1.00 C?urran, Dr. Kevin E. 25.00 Daly, Eugene N., Jr. 5.00 Desch, August G. 6.00 Diedrich, Arthur J. 25.00 Disney, Francis X. — 5.00 Donaldson. Joseph F. 50.00 Doran, Dr. Patrick C. 10.00 Doriot, Frank S. 2.00 Dwyer, Wilfred T. 15.00 Feldman, Edwin F. 6.00 Ficks, Albert. Jr. 5.00  

Kelly, Emmett J. _ 25.00 Black, Raymond A. — 3.00 Fitzgerald, Hon. William T. 10.00 
f 868.00 

Kiley, Philip J. 1.00 Bloemer, Frank B., Jr. 15.00 Flannery, Harry W. 6.00 King, Francis C — 20.00 Castellini, William A. . 10.00 Foley, Daniel F. 5.00 1917 Lockard, Frank R. . MOO.OO Champion. Pierre 523.00 Galvin, Frank J. 25.00 Burns, Dr. Robert J. 25.00 Maloney, W. Joseph . 1.00 Coughlin, Daniel M. 25.00 Haynes, Lt. Harold F. 10.00 Carr, Robert G. 1.00 Meyer, Joseph A. — 5.00 Cullen, John P. 100.00 Holmberg, Bruce J. 50.00 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Kelly, Edward D. — Kiley, Hon. Roger J. Krcimer, Edward P. — Lauerman, Henry J. _ Lieb, Thomas J. Logan, F. Leslie Lynch, Daniel D. Maino, Carlton B.  25.00 200.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 E.OO 5.00  Miller, Lt. Edward B. . Miller, Richard C. Molz, L t Charles O. . Moran. Walter B. Murphy. Timothy J.. Jr. Nolan. Hon. Mark E. Noonan, T. ClifTord Novesky, Walter G.  5.00 5.00 20.00 10.00 6.00 6.00 100.00 25.00  momsen. Kenben t . Momn , .TnTin R Mouch, Charles M. Moylan, Thomas A. Murphy. Dr. David Murray, T. Frank O'Neil. Daniel J . O'Toole, Edward F.  1S.M 75.00 6.00 1.00 5.00 10.00 45.00 its 00  Knans, Ifaleohn F. La Can . Peter X . . I<andry. Ernest L. Le Blanc. Erwin J. Lcnmier. Victor F. Ler. Theodore N. — Lovler, Lester I<. . Hatsnet. Charles P. .  100.00 25.00 2.00 5.00 15.00 1.00 5.00 S.0O  
Martin, Charles M. — Martin. James R. Mattes. Lee H. McDermitt, Francis F. Mcdart. J. Reynolds _ Montague, John M. — Nash, Richard J. Neff, Cyril W. Niemiec John W. O'Grady, George J. — Norton, John C, Nyikos, Joseph W. Patterson, Geonie A. Pfciffer, Cornelius J. — Powers, Jeffrey V. —-— Randall, Thomas G. Raub, Edgar J. Rauber, Walter F. Rauh, Walter I. : Richter, Elton E. Rieder, Leo P. Sohrbach, John M. __ Rolwing, E. Merlin — Russell, Benjamin F. ._ Ryan, Edwin S. Sexton, Dr. Daniel L. . Sharp, Ivan C. Torres, Jesse N.  6.00 100.00 25.00 30.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 2.00 100.00 6.00 20.00 25.00 5.00 6.00 5.00 3.00 10.00 10.00 2.00 50.00 25.00 25.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 3.00 10.00 25.00  O'Donnell, John C. Rader, Walter R. Rauh, Cornelius A, Rink. Robert M. Rothert. Mathew H. Ryan. Joseph C. Sheehan. Thomas J. Stillman. Harry B. Sullivan, Edward S. Swift, Lt. James P. Weber, Maurice A. Zilk-y. Richard F. 1925 Ahlering, Edward L. _ Armstrong, James E. . Baker. Edward J. Hartley, John A. Bell, William R. Benitz, William H. Bischoff, George A. — Boetinger, Leo J. ... Boland. Maurice J. — Broderick, William J. Brule. Albert McL.  % 10.00 5.00 20.00 10.00 15.00 10.00 1.00 20.00 6.00 10.00 1.00 15.00  863.50 25.00 25.00 5.00 55.00 5.00 6.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 5.00  Pamell, Robert N. AnoTiymoUS Polhaus. Edmund A. Potts, J. aifford . Pnwprs, T.e« J RodighetOw Rudolph G. Romweher. Paul C. Saiewskj, Arthmr W. Schuh, Vincent ASheehan, William F . Showpl, ,Tohn L., .Skelley, Norbert Snakard. John W. Sobatski, Raymond J. .<?fo»I Prnnlr IT Stoeckley, John F. Trnynor, .Tohn P Voor, William E Wolf, T«stpr J. Worth, Robert M. . 1926 Adams. John Q. Bailey. Joseph A. —  ,  5.00 100.00 55.00 25.00 10.00 2.00 . 110.00 I.OO . 25.00 25.00 26.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 1.00 150.00 35.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 $ 2,399.00 90.00 5.00  Haaenleh, Jay Maion. Charles E. McCarthy. J. H. B. McEUigott CSupt. Manriee1LD. McGinley. Gerald J. McNabb, Henry F. Mekus, Francis A. MiUer, HaioM A. Hooney, Charles A., Jr. . Mnlaney, Charles W. _ Mnrphy. Tlionias J. NaehtegaU. Alfred C. _ O'Day. George P. O'Neill, Daniel J. Poggiani, Tino J. PriAst, L Irwin Reid, Wnilam J. Roche, Rev. Keithen L. Ryan. John J. Schaefer, Gilbert F. Shea, Joseph B. Scheer. Arthur F. Sheridan. Thomas W. . Slater. Frank X. Steffaniak. Rose Sullivan. William W. Swartz. Forest J.  25.00 5.00 25.00  J.: 5.00 100.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 10.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 35.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 25.00 5.00 30.00 105.00 25.00 25.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 2.00 3.00  
Wack, George J. Ward, Clifford B. 1924 Anderson, Paul J.  28.00 10.00 S 1,273.00 15.00  Burke. Joseph P. Garfagno. Thomas F. — Centlivre, Herman G. Collins. Clarence C. Corboy. Stephen C. — Corcoran, John T., Jr. Cunningham. Lt. Raymond C. Cyr. Waiter J.  25.00 25.00 105.00 10.00 100.00 2.00 105.00 30.00  Bailie. Maurice _. Barr. William R. Bidwill. Arthur J. _ Bower. Seward E. — Brennan. James H. .. Broussard. Joseph E., Jr. Callahan. Edmund D. — Cantwell. Leo J.  10.00 5.00 6.00 5.00 10.00 150.00 5.00 6.00  Switzer. Fred M.. Jr. . Toohy. John O'H. Walsh. Joseph A. Whelan, James F. Wingerter. Bernard K. . Witz, Theodore A. Yawnian. Victor G.  5.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 20.00 6.00 275.00  
Arnold, Jerome C. Baldus, George H.  6.00 5.00  DeCourscy. Raymond M. — Dielmann, William V.. Jr.  5.00 5.00  Collins, Richard J., Jr. Cont^vay, John J.  3.00 5.00  $ 2.070.00  
Barber, Thomas W. Barrett. John R.  30.00 5.00  Donahue, Charles W. Dooley. Paul J. __.  10.00 200.00  Cook, Kenneth K Coughlin, Dr. E. Daniel  _  10.00 5.00  1927  
Boehm,  Alfred  M.  10.00  Driscoll.  George  F.  5.00  Coughlin,  Rev.  Bernard  J.  25.00  Bednard.  Thad  J.  2.00  
Boyle.  Hugh  C.  15.00  Droege.  John  R,  25.00  Crowe,  Edward  V.  25.00  Berkery.  Edwin  A.  ­ 125.00  
Brady,  Lt.  Col.  Raymond  R.  1.00  Dupay.  Peter  P.  40.00  Cummins,  Robert  B.  5.00  Bemer.  Sebastian  T.  10.00  
Brennan,  John  S.  25.00  Dunn.  Robert  C.  5.00  Daly,  Martin  B., Jr.  1.00,  Boland,  Joseph  M.  —  25.00  
Brown,  Dr.  Harvey  F,  25.00  Feldman,  Morris  D.  5.00  Dolmage, Dr. George H.  3.00  Bourke,  Edward  F.  ­ 10.00  
Buell.  DeWitt  P.  50.00  Fellner,  Al.  E.  7.00  Dooley.  William  R.  25.00  Brann. Herbert J.  15.00  
Cahill.  Lt.  Robert  L.  10.00  Foley, Capt. Charles J.  (M.D.)  25.00  Doran, Robert J.  10.00  Brennan.  John  W.  ­ 10.00  
Castellini,  Albert  D.  6.00  Foos,  Albert  E.  25.00  Duffy.  Edward  J.. Jr.. .  1.00  Brinlcman. Adam J. —  3.00  
Cava,  Capt.  Jasper  F.. M.D.  2.00  Fuite.  Richard  J. «.  6.00  Dunne.  Robert  V.  10.00  Butler,  Paul  M.  50.00  
Chaussee,  E. Louis  10.00  Gladen, Capt. Ralph G.; M.D.  5.00  Durst,  Raymond  W.  —  100.00  Clarke. Philip J.  5.00  
Cooke, Thomas  E.  8.60  Gordon, Robert K.  3.00  Eggert. Herbert A.  S.OO  Coleman.  James  W.  ­ 5.00  
Crook.  William  J.  3.00  Hall,  Waller  D.  1.00  Eick.  Louis  F.  5.00  Conlon.  John  R.  5.00  
Cunningham. John S. DeGurse. E. Newell  1.00 6.00  Harding,Harstick.  Clarence W.  Harold J.  50.00 2.00  Endres. John J. Fallon, Edward A.  5.00 5.00  Conway. Lt. FranldinCoogan, Lt. James H.   L.  10.00 50.00  
De  long.  Robert  C.  3.00  Hartman.  Paul  A.  100.00  Farrell,  Thomas  A.  50.00  Cooney,  Robert  R.  2.00  
Donovan,  Thomas  C.  5.00  Hcger, Ralph F.  5.00  Feldpausch, Roman C.  _  25.00  Corbett.  Lt.  William  J.. Jr.  130.20  
Downhard,  Thomas  L,  3.00  Hocfller,  Paul  D.  5.00  Ferguson,  Thomas  E,  _  5.00  Corcoran, Henry J.  15.00  
Fannan, J. Henry Feltes, Norman N. Fox, F. Jerome Gilfoyle. Richard B. Glasscott, Robert E. Glynn, George H. Gordon, Thomas E.  2.00 26.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 20.00 3.00  Houppert, Walter W. Howland, Francis W. Hurley, John P., Jr. Hurley, William C. Jones. J. Willard . Kaiser, Qarence J. . Kennedy. Dr. Francis L.  5.00 100.00 125.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 5.00  Gelson, J. Norbert. Jr. Glynn, James J. Goepfrich, Rudolph A. Griesedieck, Henry L., Jr. Graham, James R. Griffin. John T. Haley, J. Arthur  5.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 100.00  Crowley. Lawrence E. ~ Dailey. John A. Davis, Charles — Degnen, William J. Delia Maria. Joseph F-. Diebold. Alfred J.,'Jr. . Doell, Philip E. J  1.00 . 10.00 60.00 5.00 S.OO 50.00 5.00  
Haley. J. Howard Heringer, Leo C. Hodgson, Thomas H. Hurley. James D. James, John J., Jr. Kelly. Frank W. Kreutzer, Hark G. Lorden. Elbridge M. Mayl, Eugene A. McGee, Raymond L. McGinnis, Francis J. McGoorty, John P., Jr. McKeown, Joseph P. Meehan, James R.  10.00 10.00 5.00 100.00 6.00 6.00 6.00 6.00 10.00 S.OO S.OO 50.00 10.00 25.00  Kesting. Bernard G. Kilkenny. John F. Kohout. Paul L. Layden, Elmer F. „ „ Livergood. Bernard B. Loftus, Thomas A. Ludwig, George E. .. Magevney, Hugh M., Jr. McCarthy, Frank J. McFadden, Francis P. McMuUen, Andrew W. _ McSorley.* Franklin « Metzger, Walter J. Miller. Anselm D.  36.00 20.00 5.00 10.00 52.00 5.00 55.00 10.00 5.00 6.00 6.00 10.00 5.00 5.00  Hall, AusUn K. Hartnett. George F, Hayes, Capt. Gerald W. (M.D.) Heint'z, Charles F. Hengesbach, Vincent P. Hurley, Bernard F. Hurwich, Irving A. Johnson. J- Paul Joyce. Thomas M. (M.D.) _ Justin. Brother X.. CJ.X. Keefe. Lawrence V. Keiser. Raymond J. Kelly. John J.  10.00 25.00 12.50 6.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 10.00 250.00 5.00 10.00 2.50 5.00  Doyle. Albert L. Doyle. Frank E. Dann. Thomas B. Epstein. Bernard L. Farley. Thomas F., Jr , Faverok Bartholomew C.FSefarer. Mare A. Flynn, Edward J. Foley. John A, Frodich. Gervase A, Fury, L. William Galone. Andrew N . Gordon. George W. Green. Thomas F., Jr.  —  25.00 1.00 . 5.00 10.00 1.00 S.OO S.OO 2.00 1.00 15.00 2.00 25.00 2.00 10.00  

Hasenbarih, Frank J., Jr. 
Hilloran, William D. 
Halpin, John J. 
Halpin, Richard L. 
Harty. John H. ' 
Hearden, Thomas F. ^ 
Hearn, William G. 
Houehton, Walter C. 
Irmiser, Robert 
Jones, Herbert E. 
K.ine. Frank L. 
Kavanaugh, William D. 
Kemps, Carl F. 
Knoblock, Eugene C. 
Lavelle. Regis I. 
Lcnhard, Alden E. 
Leroux, Clayton C. „ 
M-cPonald. William S. — 
Madden, Thomas P. 
Mnrtin, Paul C 
McCullou^, William H. 
McCurrie, Francis T. — 
McEndarfer, Eli R. 
McKenna. Lt. Robert L. _ 
McKicrnan. Thomas A. ^ 
McLaughlin, Edward J. ~ 
McNellis. John F. 
Mead, George J. 
Moran, Francis E. 
Morsches, John F. 
Nyikos, John J. 
O'Boyle. Harry W. 
O'Brien, Eugene V. 
O'Connor, James J. 
O'Connor, Thomas E. 
Oehlhoffen. J. Frank 
O'Kcefe, William A. 
Qualley, J. Kenneth 
Reichert, Ennin E. 
Rsidy, John J. 
Rigali, Joseph I*. 
Ryan, Edwin L. 
Ryan, Rev. Harry 
Ryan, Paul W. 
Scharf. Norbert M. 
Sheeran, Dr. Daniel R. Slattery, John W. SleiKh, Andrew F. Smithberger, Andrew T. Travis, William L. Val'ely, James I,. Wallace. Hon. John J. Walsh, Charles M. Wathen, Robert N. Whelan. Joseph W. Wilhelm, Dr. Ernest J. _ Young, Eugene J. 
1928 
Amiot, Neil H. __ Baum, Henry P. .. Boyle, Andrew J. . 
Brust, Paul C. Buckley, Louis F. . 
B 'me, Thomas F. Canny, James P. . Carr, Louis J. Carrig, Lester J.-— Gollins. Thomas S. Conley, Maurice B. Conmey. James J. Creadon, Francis P. Cross, James A. Culliney, Lawrence J. — Cunningham, Edward P. Davis, Albert F. De Clerca, Jerome C. 
5.00 5.00 15.50 15.50 10.00 I.OO 5.00 5.00 10.00 50.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 1.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 100.00 3.00 25.00 5.00 
50.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 
10.00 25.00 10.00 25.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 100.00 5.00 25.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 15.00 10.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 3.00 
25.00 
15.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 
25.00 
$ 1.469.20 
5.00 2.00 25.00 1.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 3.00 10.00 10.00 
S.OO 25.00 
5.00 5.00 2.00 

Fogarty. Lt. Robert P. 
Galardy. Frank M. 
Garber, Richard A. 
Gilbert, Jacob H. 
Glaska, John M. 
Grams, August M. 
Hartley, James J. 
Hasley, Henry 
Hatch, G!enn M. 
Hegarty. Mai. Francis A. MD 
Hilger, Joseph P. 
Hurley, William A. 
Igoe, John D. 
Jefferys, Hudson 
Jenkins, Augustus E. _ 
Kaiser, Charles N. 
Keams, Jamss R. 
Ke!l.v. Jcmes W. 
Kelly. William W. 
Kinvan, Joseph W. 
Kirwan, Martin J., Jr. . 
Korren, Bernard J. 
Krembs, David 
Langton, James J. 
Lavelle. John S. 
Lo:(rler. Bernard T. 
Madden, Robert J. 
Mahon, Lt. Thomas C. . 
Martin. George R. 
Massman, Henry J., Jr. 
McCabe, Herbert P. 
McClarnon, Edmund F. „ 
McKeown. Edward P. 
Mclntyre. Leo R. 
McMahon, John F. 
Merloni. Peter E. 
Mitiguy, Arthur A. 
Mobily, Sylvester M. 
Morrissey, Joseph S. 
Motter. Lawrence J. .. 
Murphy, John P. 
Murphy, John R. .— 
Nolan, Ralph L. 
O'Connor. Lt. Pierce J. 
O'Dowd, Joseph M. 
Persyn, Henry A 
Quinn, Edward R. 
Rich, Ronald T. 
Rini, Martin A. 
Rodin, Dr. Herman H. Ruiz, Frederick Sargus, George J. Scheberlc, Arthur J. Scheuer, George A. , Schuhmehl, Harry F. — Schuessler, Charles A. „ Searer, R. Floyd Seidensticter, Norbert A. . Sheedy. John C. iheibley, Gerald A. Shelanskey, Charles J. — Simonin, Joseph R. Skelly, John E. ... Slavin, Arthur D. Smith. David H. Smith, Russell R. -Solman, Fred J., Jr. Solomon, Dr. S. David — Sporl, Cyprian A., Jr. Topping, Charles G. Totten, Charles A. Toussaint, Walter J. 
Toepp. Burton E. 
Walsh, Vincent T. White, James E. Winberry, John J. Wingerter. John J. Wingerter, Laurence A. . Wood, Bernard P. 
5.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 
5.00 
50.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 2.50 
10.00 5.00 5.00 
13.00 
25.00 3.00 S.OO 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 
fo.oo 
5,00 2.00 1.00 5.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 25.00 10.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 1.85 2.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 3.50 25.00 15.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 
25.00 2.00 25.00 
2.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 2.00 
25.00 5.00 5.00 3.00 
10.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 
25.00 5.00 1.00 
25.00 
30.00 1.00 5.00 

Baum. Joseph E. 5.00 Beamer, George N. — 25.00 Bertsch, Paul A. 2.00 Brennan. Robert J. 10.00 Brokhage. Paul H. _ 15.00 Brown, William E. 5.00 Bums, Henry L. 5.00 Byma, William T. 1.00 Carney," Vincent F. 
105.00 
25.00 
Cline, Major Virgil P. _ 
6.00 
Colangelo, John F. 
2.00 10.00 
Connor, James J. 

Cosgrove. John F. 5.00 
Cronin, William F. 
5.00 
Curry, James M, 
5.00 
Gushing, Francis J. 
210.00 
Deniger, Reynold A. ~ 
5.00 
Digan. James E. 
6.00 
Doan. Franklyn E. 
10.00 
Doll, Howard F. 
6.00 
Donahue. Donald M. 
25.00 
Dorgan. John W. 

5.00 Dougherty, Sylvester J. 
15.00 Dowdall, William P. 
1.00 Fahey. Edward J. 
5.00 Farrell, Thomas M. 
25.00 Fortier, Willard C. 
15.00 Friel, Joseph G. 
5.00 Greer, J. Walter 
1.00 Haney, Louis F. 
5.00 Harrison, John F. 5.00 Hart. Lt Thomas V. 5.00 Hartnett, Lt. Joseph P., Jr. 5.00 Heuer, Hilmar E. 10.00 Hil'. Lyman H., Jr. 35.00 Hinkel, Capt. John V. 10.00 Holahan, Paul D. ,000.00 Johnson, Karl F. : 5.00 Johnson. William J. 30.00 Jones, Francis G. 15.00 Keams, John T., Jr. 37.50 Keating, James E. 2.00 Kennedy, James P. 10.00 Kirby, Robert E. 2.00 Kirchner, Marcellus C. 
5.00 
1.00 
Kraker, Joseph H. 
10.00 
Kreis, Lt. Donald R. 
25.00 
Lintz, Arthur J. 
5.00 2.00 
Martersteck, Karl E. 

Martin, Joseph R. 5.00 
Mason, Aaron W. 150.00 
McColl, E. Donald 
5.00 
McDevitt, L t Hariey L. 
25.00 
McElroy. Lt. Paul C. 
5.00 

McNamara. Capt Joseph P. 
12.50 
McNicholas, Thomzs H. 
,000.00 
Micinski, C. L. 
5.00 

Milder. Fred C 1,( 
6.00 
Milliff. Eugene A. 
2.00 
Molloy, John G. 
6.00 
Monroe, George M. 

10.00 Moran, John F. 
2.60 Mulhall, Joseph H. 
35.00 Nettleton, Joseph H. 
5.00 Niezer, Louis F. 
5.00 O'Bryan, Joseph G. 
2.00 O'Connor, Lt. James C , Jr. _ 
6.00 O'Mallcy, Terrence R. 5.00 Ouellette, Jerome E. 25.00 Perone, Rocco D. 6.00 Ragen. James AL 1.00 Ragen James M., Jr. 6.00 Rauch, Basil . 5.00 Raymond, Dr. Eugene E. . 6.00 Regan, Louis J. 5.00 Reilly, John F. 25.00 Roach. Gerald K 10.00 Schell, Oliver F. I.OO Schuize, Lt Robert J. 6.00 
Turner, M. Jay 10.00 Verilli, Daniel M. — 1.00 Walsh, Philip A. — 10.00 Wanek, George C. _ 5.00 Weber, William J. _ 2.00 Whalen, Joseph E. _ 2.00 Zapponc, Francis L. 1.00 
$ 3,298.50 
1930 
Allan, James A. 5.00 Aman, Andrew A., Jr. 5.00 Arthur. Edward I.. — 5.00 Atchinson. Charles S. . 5.00 Barry, James E. 5.00 Beljon, Jon R-6.00 Bernard, Walter R. 1.00 Bishko, Michael J. 4.00 Bitter. John A., Jr. 25.00 Blatt. Rev. Bemard A. 
10.00 
10.00 
Bloom. Richard A. 
5.00 
Bondi. August L. 
10.00 5.00 
Bray, Adam J. 
Brennan, Karl T. 10.00 
Broeker, Bemard D. 5.00 
Bromann, William H., Jr. 
5.00 
Brusca. L t Donald D. 
3.00 
Cassidy, L t John J. 
2.00 
Cassidy, Kenneth H. 
5.00 
Cassidy. William B. 
50.00 
Chapleau, Louis C 
10.00 
Clark. Henry J. 
5.00 
Cogan, Richard P. 
6.00 
Conlin. John H. 
5.00 
Conroy, Bemard W. 
1.50 Conway, Patrick J. 
5.00 Costello, James C. 
2.00 Cunningham, Frederick L. 
12.50 Degnan, John F. 
5.00 De Lany, Frederick T. 
6.00 Dempsey, Edward J. 
6.00 Doyle, L t William F. 
15.00 Draves. Harry W. 
5.00 DrisGoll. James F., Jr. 3.00 Duke. Harold E. 5.00 Eggeman, Robert F. 30.00 Elder, John J. 5.00 Enrigfat, Laurence F. _ 2.00 Erwin, Pv t George E. 5.00 Fennell. Edward G. 10.00 Fogel, Warren S. . 5.00 Fox, Milton F. 6.00 Frc-'. Henry R. 5.00 Gallagher. Arthur J. _ 6.00 Gallagher. Hugh A. — 
10.00 
10.00 
Gibbons, John W. 
25.00 
G3ggin. Patrick J., Jr. 
5.00 10.00 
Hasley, Louis L. 
Hastings, Patrick J. — 26.00 
Hill. Rev. John J. 25.00 
Hinsenkamp. Henry E. . 
1.00 
Holmes, Robert A. 
5.00 
Janesheski, Cesare S. _ 
5.00 
Kelleghan, Joseph M. ... 
25.00 
Kerver, George G. 
2.00 
Kizer, Marshall F. 
5.00 
Klefeker. Charles F. 
25.00 
Konop, William H. 
S.OO 
lAngford. Walter McC. . 
S.00 
Lantry, Thomas F. 
1.00 
Lawler, Thomas G. 
1.00 Leahy. James C. 
6.00 Leahy, James E. 
S.OO Lean, BIdward W. 
6.00 Ullig. Francis N. 
6.00 Lordi, Joseph J. __ 
S.OO Luedtke. Walter H. 
10.00 

De Bott. Joseph T. 10.00 Soitz, Reynolds C. 6.00 Halloy, James A 5.00 Devlin, James A. 5.00 Ssdenfcden, William H. _ Manzlone. Dr. Frank A. 5.00 
$ 1.499.85 3.00 25.00 
Donovan, Francis J. 500.00 Smith, John A. UcAloon, Leo R. 2.00 
1929 5.00 
Dunne, Capt. John F. 50.00 Stackpoole, John M. McDonald, James L. 2.00 26.00 
Evans, Ko' ert F., Jr. 1.00 Ahem. Francis D. 10.00 Stauder, Lawrence F. Hd)ougal, Thomas E. 25.00 Fletcher, Bernard D. 5.00 Angelino, Joseph S. — 2.00 Sullivan. John B. McGee, John B. Fontana, John C. . 105.00 Bartholomew, Paul C. 25.00 Trotter, Robert M. McKay. Gerald E. 
Meagher, John F. 10.00 Medland, Thomas G. — 5.00 Messick, Francis M. _ 10.00 Monroe. Richard J. — 5.00 Moore, Carl C 1.00 Horan, John T. 3.00 Moran, Joseph A. 13.20 Mullen, Dr. Georfte C. S.OO Murphy, Thomas G. _. 5.00 Nelson, John E. —.! 5.00 O'Connor, Lawrence A. 10.00 O'Kecfe. James G., Jr. _ 5.00 O'MaKey, George F. 6.00 Parent, Fred K. _: 1.00 Peterson, Arthur E. 2.00 Pique, C. Frederic 5.00 Plunkett, Dcvere T. 25.00 Pope, George B. 10.00 Ready, Francis T. 2.00 Reaume, William J. 5.00 Rcdsatc, John C. 1.00 Redmond. Edward J. 5.00 Rcisert, William A.. Jr. 5.00 Richards, Samuel E. 5.00 Rochetto, Lotiis R. (Deceased) 
5.00 Rohr, Charles E.. Jr. 
123.10 Rooney, Francis J. __„ . 
6.00 2.00 

Ryan, Theodore J. 
5.00 

Schettig, Donald A. Scholand. Walter J. • 15.00 Shay, Lt. George D. 10.00 Shipacasse, Albert J 3.00 Sieron, August T. 5.00 Simpson, Harold N. , 10.00 Sinnott, Dr. Gerald W. 2.00 Smith. Edward B. 5.00 
, Spahr, Rnjnnond J. , 6.00 Sprcnger, Fred 200.00 Staudt, R. Zeno, Jr. 2.00 Steitz, William N „ . 5.00 Stcttler, H. Louis, Jr. . 16.50 Sturm, Rudolph E. 2.00 Sullivan, Donald D. 5.00 Sullivan. James W. 5.00 Totten. Raymond F. 5.00 Trombley. Malcolm E. . 5.00 Voss, John D. 1.00 Walker. Francis X. 10.00 AVelzenbsch, Alois J. 5.00 Williamson, James T. 2.00 Winkler, George F., Jr. 5.00 Winter. Robert P. 5.00 Yelland, John D. 10.00 
$ 1.234.80 

1931 
Anderson, John W., Jr. S 1.00 Askew, James H. 5.00 Baldinger, Lawrence H. 26.00 Barber, Richard J. 10.00 Beasley, Howard C. 3.00 Bergan, John E. 25.00 Biggins. Dr. James A. 10.00 Blomstrom, Ellis T. 1.00 Briegcr, H^arl W. 30.00 Cossady, William J.. Jr. 10.00 Chawgo, William B. 3.00 Connors, Raymond F. 1.00 Coames. Edward A. 15.00 Crowley, Jerome J., Jr. 105.00 Culligan, Lt. Jerome S. 2.00 Cushwa, Charles B., Jr. 105.00 Dalton. Lt. Ralph J. 10.00 Deeb, Joseph F. lo.nn Dericks, Richard J. 10.00 Desenterg, William R. 5.00 Donlan, Joseph R. 2.00 Doyle, James T. 5.00 Doyle, John T. 5.00 Draves, Dr. Edward F. . 15.00 Dunne, Lt. Jos:ph M. ._ 5.00 Durbin, Clarence A. 5.00 Egan, Daniel J. 4.00 Ellsworth, Edward C. ... 2.00 
Esposito, Dr. Louis W. 
Fisker. CliiTord L. 

Flannery, Francis E. 
Flynn. Frank T., Jr. 
Gcensslen, Carl A. „ 
Gajowski, Henry J. 
Gallagher, James B. , 
Gannon, Dr. Francis J. 
Gcrland, Leo B. 
Gaudie, Gilbert D. 
Gies, Noel M. 
Golden, Thomas P. 

Goraczewski, Dr. Thaddeus C. 
Gore, Robert H. 
Griliin, James J. 

Grisanti, Alfred C. 
Gross, Seymour R. 
Halpin, Daniel DeL. 
Hancock, Charles F„ Jr. 
Hausmann, J. Hudson 
Heitger, Lt. Louis C. 
Henneberger, Francis J. 
Herschfield. Myron 0. „ 
Herzog, Erston H. 

Holland, Francis J. 
Hosinski, Edward J. — 
Karl, William C. 

Keirney, Joseph J. 
Kendall. Robert D. 
Kennedy, Harry E. 
Kletzly, Leo J. 
Knox, Vernon J. 

Kopek. Henry S. 1 
Krai, Lawrence P. 

Langenfeld, Edward P. 
Lauerman, Joseph A. . 
Lavenberg, Elton P. _ 
Leahy, Francis W, — 
Leahy. William R. 

Lencioni, Daniel C. — 
Lenouse. Bernard J. — 
Long. Charles W. .... 
MacDonald, Donald F. 
Martin, Valentine H. -
Mastain. Royal T. 

McCartan, Daniel B. — 
McCarthy. William C. 
McGough, Thomns M. _ Mclntyre, John E. — McKeever, Charles .-— McAIanmon, Arthur T. Merdzinski, Ensign Harry L. Metzger, Bert L. ililtner, Charles H. Monahan. Thomas F., Jr. — Morphy, William A. Motsett, Rev. C. Bourke — Mulrey, Maurice D. Mulvaney, Jnmes L. Murphy, Dr. Edward S. Murray, Lt. Edward J. Murray, James W. Neydon, Robert L. O'Brien, Lt. James J. O'Connell, Henry G. O'Connor, Ward F. O'Leary. Capt. Lawrence A. . O'Rourke, Ticrney A. O'Shea, Bartholomew T. O'Shea. Lewis J. O'Toole, Donald E. Perry. Gilbert V. Poulin. Roland J. Powers. Capt. Charles F. — Radosevich, Lt. John C. Rahaim. Frederick J. Reilly. John J. • Reising, Warner A. Richter, George A. Rick, Robert J. _ _ Robinson, Joseph H. . Roehl, Henry J. Saunders. Lt. John F. Schmitt, John C. Seward, Francis E. — 
10.00 1.00 
10.00 
5.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 25.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 35.00 50.00 3.00 60.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 105.00 15.00 5.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 3.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 
1.00 
150.00 10.00 15.00 10.00 3.00 10.00 5.00 20.00 10.00 10.00 1.00 5.00 25.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 4.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 
25.00 . 5.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 100.00 1.00 5.00 
Sheehan, John H. 
Shean, Hobart P., Jr. 
Shively, Capt. John C. 
Skahan, James B. — 
Smith, Robert L., Jr. . 
Sullivan, Lt. John C. 
Sullivan, John R. 
Sullivan, Robert J. _ 
Sutton, Deon B. 
Teders. Lt Michael V. 
Terre, Wilbert L. 
Thompson, Bernard E. . Tohulka, Kenneth D. Tolchinsky. David Tuberty, Harold J. Touhy, Albert J. Van Dike, John A. Van Rooy, William 
Wachsmuth, Frank C. _ 
Walker, Lelnnd S. Webster, William B. __ Weibler, John O. Wells, Charles S. Wetli, Joseph L. Whalen, Robert J. Zuber, John H. 
1932 
Arehart, George A. Asman. Capt. Henry B.; Ball. Hugh E. Barry, John S. . Belden. Paul B., Jr. Berning, William B. Bleeg. John P., Jr. Blind, William C. : Bognar, John J. ; Bosco, James A. Botti, Lt. Andrew G. . Bouquin, Cpl. Louis S. Boyce, Raymond P. 
Brennan, Rev. Vincent P. Brichacek, Francis A. — Carey. Joseph H. Cass. Ensign William P. Jr. . Cassidy. Daniel F. _: Chadwick. James H. Christman, Norbert J. Clark. Paul D. Collins. Lt. James K. Collins. Lt. John J. « Conaton, William R. _ Condon, Leonard W. _ Conley, Richard M. — Cook, Sheridan Culver. Alvin S. Cummings, Roger P. — Czapalski. Stanley J. Davis, Robert L. Dillon, Terrence J. Donoghue, Leonard A. _. 
Donshoe, Richard C. — 
Donovan, Dr. Robert E. 
Driscoll. John E. 
Dunn. Joseph J. _ 
Ernest, Francis R. 
Ewing, Lt. Joseph H. — 
Feely, Thomas P. 
Fox, John R. 
Freidhoft, William F. _ 
Galligan, Thomas A. — Candour, Jackson Geiger, Lt- Raymond A. Gill. Joseph R. 
Glancy, Hubert J. Goncierz, Joseph F. Graham. Francis X. — Hartman. Robert J. — Hechinger, Ernest C. _ Hennion. George F. Hiteeltergor, A. Charles Hodges, Gerald R. Hogan, William L. 

26.00 10.00 6.00 15.00 2.00 50.00 6.00 6.00 5.00 10.00 6.00 1.00 3.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 
10.00 5.00 5.00 6.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 3.00 2.00 5.00 
S 1,723.00 
% 
 MD 

3.00 50.00 6.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 3.00 5.00 1.00 6.00 30.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 15.00 10.00 6.00 5.00 2.00 27.00 5.00 15.00 5.00 15.00 
3.00 10.00 22.00 25.00 6.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 6.00 1.00 10.00 5.00 3.00 6.00 26.00 25.00 5.00 25.00 5.00 25.00 
COO 
Johnson, Henry C. KOer, Edward F.. Jr. Kellr. Edward J. Kdlr. Frank J. Kennedy, Joseph E. Kiener. J(An A. Kilboxser, Harry F. KiUlaD, Donald B. Kiollnsa. Walter A. Kahn, John R. Lawler, Bnssel A. Hagee, Tbomas J. Maholdiie; Paul J. HcCarthy, Florence J., . McGinnis, Itiomss M. _ MeKean. Joseph E. MeKevitt. Ihomas L. MeNarzcT. Bugb J. Uiller, Fiands H., Jr. Mooney, William E. Moreaxi. Eugene J. Hnniane, D. Frank, Jr. .. Hnrphy, William J. Murray, Francis L. : Napolitano, Dominick F. Neville, Maoriee N. 1 Noonan, Walter F. Obelenos. Cph Stanley C. Oberkoetter. Frands F. _ O'Connor, James P. Oelerieh, Frands J. O'Hara. Bartholomew W. O'Keefe, Lt. John B. O'Haller. Edward A O'Kalley, Tbomas A. O'Neil, Vincent D. Owens, Lt. George S. Petretie, Charles J. 
Petritz, Lt. Joseph S. _ Petze!, Herbert W. _ _ Pfelffer, Raymond L. Prodehl. Oifford E. Quirk, Patrick J. Reilly, Christopher A. Renier, Lt. Rem! O. Rjnella, Samuel J. ^ Rone7, Richard T. Rossiter, Claude L. Ruffing, Comdins J. Salvaty, Benjamin B., Jr. . Scanlon, Capt. John U. Simmons, James W.,.Jr. „ Sitek, Sgt. Joseph P. Slader, Wmiam T. Staunton. John J. Streb, Robert C. Strehinger, Joseph B. Sullivan, Justin D. Sullivan, Richard T. Terry, Walter E. Theisen, Lt. Cyril C. Theisen, Gerald C. Toussaint, Joseph A. Trieweiler, Francis J. Troost, Clarence W. Trotter, James M. Uhlmeyer, Vance N. Umhoefer, Ivo A. Waterson. Lt. Robert R. Watson, Clinton H. Weir, Wirirsm G. 
Weiss, Pvt. Charles F., Jr. Wtadan, Vincent M. White. Alfred B. Wilson, Jerome J. 1_ Wright, FVt. Edward A Yeager, Edmtmd N. Zimmerman, George W. 
25.00 2.60 25.00 
10.00 2.00 2.00 
25.00 3.00 2.00 5.0O 5.00 
10.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 2.00 
10.00 S.00 6.00 1.00 3.00 3.00 
io.oo 
15.00 10.00 6.00 2.00 1.00 10.00 
8.00 
10.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 
40.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 10.00 2.09 10.00 2.00 10.00 75.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 4.00 3.00 5.00 
10.00 5.00 2.00 2.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 2.00 10.00 1.00 3.00 2.00 1.00 3.00 3.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 l.QO 1.00 3.00 
* 1,045.50  
1933  
Arti,  Alfred  J.  5.00  
Aug,  George  E.  —  1.00  
Baer,  Frederick  K.  3.00  


Barrett,  Pvt.  John  M.  5.00  McGill,  James  F.  1.00  Fesler,  James  C.  5.00  Wenz,  George  E.  5.00  
Bean.  Joseph  W,  .  1.00  McLaughlin,  James B. .  6.00  Forrest, James J.  2.00  
BeeUenberE, Fred., Jr. .  2.00  McNamara,  John  H.  ­ 5.00  Fransioli, Vincent G.  2.00  Zimmerer,  Carl  E. _;  1.00  
Besso,  Michael  J.  1.00  Mitsch, William H.  6.00  Fromm,  William  H., Jr.  6.00  
Blake,  Lt. Haiion  J.  2.50  Moore,  E.  E.  10.00  Gallagher,  Paul  W.  5.00  12.125.88  
Boehm,  Paul  F.  10.00  Mulville,  Dr. Maurice  F. .  COO  Garland, L t  Maurice J. .  2.00  
BoespfluK.  John  F.  10.00  Murray,  John  R.  .  6.00  Gartland,  Francis  B. _  5.00  
Bolger, George E. Boyle, Lt. Paul J.  5.00 5.00  Myers,Naber,  Herbert G.  Capt Raymond J. .  5.00 25.00  Gillespie, Howard J.Gleason, James H.  —  6.00 2.99  1935  
Breen.  John  F.  5.00  Nulty.  Leo  C.  5.00  Glennon, Joseph  R. Jr. .  _*  2.00  
Brennan,  Boger  P .  5.00  O'Beime,  J.  P.  2.00  Gorman,  John  P.  2.00  Anonymous  .  275.00  
Brinker,  John  B.  5.00  O'Brien,  Allison  J.  10.00  Green, William W.  10.00  Argus,  Cpl. Joseph  H.  _  5.00  
Bmcker,  Robert  A.  5.00  Olczak,  Edward  A. —:—  5.00  Grimes,  Thomas  R.  2.00  
Buckley,  Walter  W.  3.00  Pick, John F.  i_  1.00  Hagan,  Lowell  L.  5.00  Bateheller,  L t  Oyde  C.  „ .  2.00  
Cannon,  Thomas  A.  10.00  Pons,  L t  Adolphe J.,  Jr.  5.00  Hallauer,  Edward  W. _  6.00  Beck,  Joseph  0  5.00  
Games,  John  K.  2.00  Prendergast  Henry  J.  2.00  Hamilton,  Robert  L.  —  9S8.34  Besinger,  John  J,  2.00  
Carton,  Richard  C.  S.OO  Quinlan,  John  V.  ___  1.00  Hanley,  John  J.  5.00  Bookwalter,  James  W.  _  20.00  
Gary,  C^t.  John F.  (H.D.)  5.00  Raddatz.  Edward  D.  5.00  Hayes,  John  C.  1.50  Bracken, Ensign  Edward A.  2.00  
Casey,  Daniel  J.  „  1.00  Randolph, Clare L. ....  1.00  Heckelmann,  Charles  N.  6.00  2.00  
Cashman.  Ben. J.  (Deceased)  1.00  Rau,  Eugene  G.  ~­ 10.00  Hennessy,  David  B.  2.00  
Cavanaugh,  Eugene  L.  5.00  Rohrs,  George H.  .  5.00  Hiegel,  Alfred  J.  5.00  Broeman,  Frank  T  10.00  
Cawley,  Francis  R.  5.00  Ryan,  Charles M.  1.00  Hockberger,  William  G.  5.00  Brookmeyer,  Frederic  R.  _  5.00  
Chawgo, Louis E. _.  1.00  Rigali,  Paul  A.  10.00  Hogan, James H.  25.00  5.00  
Chreist, Louis R., Jr. COgley, Lt. Edward A., Jr. . Cook, Leo K. Coughlan, Thomas E. Cousino, Bernard L. Coyne, Eugene J. Crimmins, Jt^n H. Crowley, Patrick J. _ Dailey, Edward W. Dames, Roland N. Darmody, Philip A Davey, Joseph F. De Lay, Bernard M. De Wald, Haurice J. Donnelly, John F. Doyle, James F. __„_ _ Draper, Donald F. Ebert. Neill W. Eckert, Edward J. Faherty, Phillip J., Jr. Farrington, Wesley J. Farris, Charles L. Fitzpatrick, John D. Fitzsinunons, Robert J. Flint, L t Robert J. Fogarty, Francis J. Foley, Milton J. Fulton, Robert V. Frank, Carlos H. Galla, John J. Gargaro, Ernest J. . Gartland, Eev. Francis E. Gerend, James J. Giorgio, Herbert P. Gongh, Edward T. Grattan, Henry A. Hafron, L t Charles F., Jr. . Harrison, Eev. Frank J. Hawkes, L t William M. Hess, Loren Biggins, Willard J. Homyak, Stephen L. Hoyt John A., Jr. Hughen, lliomas A. ___„ . Hyde, Samuel Y. Jenny, Frank J. Joseph, Francis H. Joyce, John R. Keckich, Walter J. Kidey, John B. Killeen, Edward B. Kitkowski, Zigmund H. Klohr. Richard J. Kosky, Edwin S. Lottes, Edward F. Loughrey, Charles M. Lynch, John H. Madden, Francis J. Madill, David S. Marra, Francis E. Martersteck, William J. McCaffrey, L t David S. McGee, Francis S.  5.00 2.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 20.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 S.OO 2.00 10.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 3.00 10.00 5.00 30.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 20.00 2.00 5.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 4.00 3.00 1.00 30.00 2.00 10.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 3.00 2.00 2.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 3.00 S.OO 10.00 5.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 6.00  Schaeffner, Victor J. Seaman, Paul H. _ Sexton. Thomas W. Sexton, Lt. W. Lawrence Shiebler, Andrew J. Shinners, Dr. Burton M. . Simmons, Lawrence C Sloan, John F., Jr. Snite, Frederick B., Jr. Sowa. Frank J. — Staelens Louis O. _ Staley, Carroll A. Staley, F. Seton Stanton, Edward W. _. Stephan, Edmund A. Stitt Lawrence J. ——. Sullivan, Austin F. Szekely, Ernest A. — ™ Troy, David E. Tutela, Dr. Arthur C. _ Uprichard, James E. Vogelheim, Karl L. —— Weinstein, Benjamin H. Wittcnburg, William F. Witucki, Bernard F. — Woods, Edward T. 1934 Abraham, Eli M. „ Astone, Victor C. -Blish, Eugene S. _ B rugger, Leo J. — Burchell, Harry M. Burke, John C. Cahill, L t Robert M. Canino, John J. Carey, Thomas E. Carr. John F. CaulHeld, Joseph A. Clark, John H. Clark, Robert L. Clauder, John E. Collins, William J. Crego, Francis T. Dalrymple, David AV. . Daly, Thomas P. Desnoyers, Harold B. Devine, John A. Donnelly, John F. Dorian, John R. Doyle, William E. Dulin, Edwin H. Dunda, Lawrence J. ... Dupray, Walter J. Else, Ralph F. Escher, William F. Farreil, Lt. Allen G. _. Feeney, Michael A Ferrari, L t Salvatore T. (M.D.)  « 10.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 S.OO 1.00 1.00 5.00 100.00 5.00 6.00 2.00 2.00 5.00 3.00 6.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 6.00  852.50 75.00 1.00 13.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 25.00 2.00 10.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 7.50 6.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 30.00 10.00 30.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 6.00 15.00 15.00 5.00 15.00  Holland, Emmett J. Honerkamp, Francis W. Horrigan, Joseph E. Howard. Charles P. Hushes, Robert W. Anonymous . Kelley, Robert K. Kennedy, James W. Kenney, William J. Kiep, Erwin J. King, Grenville N. Kiple, John E. Kolb, Robert J. Krause, Edward W. Kroeger, John W. Land, John B. Lewis, William F. Makart Capt Carl D. ; MJ). Maloney, George P., Jr. Manoski, Paul A. Martin, John B. McAloon.. Vincent G. McKieman, John S. McLaughlin. John J. McShane, John A. Meyers, Sg t Melvin G. Moran. Edward M. Morrissey, Raymond J. Mullen, Richard W. Munn, James C. Murphy, Hugh J. O'Brien, Edward J., Jr. O'Brien, James J. O'Connor, John J., Ill O'Helia, Thomas H. O'Neil, L t John W. Pavlick, John F., Jr. Philbin, Pv t Edmund P. Piontek, Raymond F, Podraza, Julian J. Pugliese, Anthony J. . Quinn, Charles F. Reeves, James P. Reeves, L t Richard G. Robison, Francis W, Roche, John J. Rogers. Ralph E. SJeh, Albert E. Schenkel. Norbert J, Smith, James L, Jr. Smith, Joseph A. , . Sport. Harold D. Straub, Walter J. Strong, Gene E. Sullivan, John H. Toomey, Francis J. Umphrey, Thomas J. .. Veeneman, William H. Venable, John LeR. Vitt Adelrich F. Waldron, Thomas H. _ Walsh, David M., Jr. . Ward, Robert E.  2.00 3.00 S.OO 1.00 S.OO 50.00 3.00 3.00 10.00 6.00 5.00 2.00 2.00 15.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 6.00 5.00 25.00 5.00 250.00 105.00 10.00 3.00 5.00 3.00 5.00 2.00 1.00 3.00 1.00 10.00 6.00 1.00 2.00 2.00 3.00 3.00 6.00 25.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 27.55 2.60 6.00 6.00 2.50 10.00 S.OO 5.00 S.OO 1.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 2.00 10.00 10.00 2.00  Burkhardt William G. __ramphell, .Tohn T. , . Chayie, Oliver J. r.n.n, Wi'llinin M Conlon, .Toseph W. Cronin, James R rushing, Jerome J Pubs, Glenn T. . . Edwards, L t John R. Fergus, Paul A Fishwick, Cpl. Edward H. _-Fitzpatrick, John P. __Flynn, Thomas W., Jr. Gainer, John J Gallagher, Thomas F. Gamit?:, Trving Glnnzner, John T Glenn, James J HamiUon, James M. Harris, Falmore B. _Harter, Vermont C Hickey, Thomas L., Jr. _Hoffert, Sg t William G. __Hosteller, Robert L. Jsselmann, George L. Judd, Herman R Kane, Maurice G Keating, Raymond G. Kelleher, Wade P Kennedy, William A Klaiber, Robert J., Jr. _Klima, William J. Kloslnski, Theodore A. _Koppelberger, Francis L. __Krnmpr, Tnhiflfi Kranzfelder, Arthur L. -_Kmg, Pf c George P. Kunr.. ,Tobn J T^wrenre, John W, T.awtnn, G Mbprt , I^ogan, L t John H., Jr. _.Hatavovsky', Francis G. MeDevitt, Lt. James C , Jr. MrOratJi, John J HcNicholas, Cpl. Lavin J. _Montgomery, Charles R. _Moss, L t William B. Keeson, John H., Jr. O'Brien, Bernard M. O'Brien, Eugene I<, n'Rripn, Ff^nc^ F. O'Brien, Ensign George F. _O'Connor, William J. O'Hara, Edward L.   20.00 10.00 3.00 6.00 5.00 1.00 3.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 2.00 25.00 25.00 5.00  5.00  10.00 6.00 5.00 5.00 30.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 833.33  5.00 1.00  25.00  1.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 1.00  5.00 2.00  5.00  5.00 1.00  5.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 2.00  3.00 2.00 6.00 25.00  3.00  5.00 5.00 25.00 25.00 10.00 2.00 25.00 9.00  5.00 10.00 2.00  

O'Reilly, Eugene J.O'Shca. Russell J. Otte, William J.  —  10.00 5.00 1.00  Gorman, Thomas F. Gregory, Lt. ArthurGriffin. Thomas E.   C.  3.00 5.00 5.00  Wentworth, Ensign George B.Whitaker, John F. Wolf, George M.   1.00 387.50 18.00  0*80^16^ Fvt. AnthonyCDonnell. James T. Fbiman Homr F.   F.  2.50 1.00 1.00  
Owen, Thomas B.  2S.00  Grubb, Henry  W.  15.00  Yazaki,  Paul  M.  2.00  Peter, Ball  J.  5 ^  
Pendergast, Robert P. . Petrillo, Lt, August P. Pickard. Qarence J. ~ Proctor, lliomas G.  10.00 5.00 5.00 2.00  Hammer, Rev. Edmund F. . Hansman, Capt. Louis H. ~ Hickey, Dennis J., IH Hmurcik, Joseph P.  5.00 25.00 2.00 10.00  f  1,344.50  Pierce, Harriaon J. Pniyear, Botert E. Qoinn. Joseph P.. Jr.Beilly. Bernard F.  —  2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00  
Quirk. John P. Ratterman, CtirlRavarino, Albert  B. J.  — —  10.00 5.00 10.00  Hopkins. John W. Hufnagel, Sgt. Andrew D. . Ireland, George M.  2.00 1.00 2.00  1937 Alaman,  Louis  G.  _ $  ReiDy, Francis J. Riley, L t J. Aleide Rogtcenstein, CsU Charles  E.  1.00 10.00 5.00  
Kogcrs. Robert F. Rouleau, Roland A.  5.00 5.00  Jacobs, William L., Jr. Johnson, Norman L.  5.00 1.00  Bailey, Lt, William J. (M.D.)  t  2S.00  Salerno,Sehafer.  Nicholas J.  Albert U.  5.00 50.00  
Ryan.  William  F.  25.00  Joyce, Francis M.  2.00  Bernard, Ralph  L.  10.00  Sehraelxle. Robert J.  1.00  
Schiralli, Rocco  V.  1.00  Kelley,  Arthur  B.  5.00  Bride, Sgt. Allen F.  5.00  Sehnudt, Steven I .  5.00  
Schlueter, Lt. Francis E. : MD  5.00  Kenefake,  Edwin  W.  5.00  Brown,  aifford  F.  25.00  Sdiwartz, Pvt.  Albert J.  5.00  
Scholz. Dr. Roy O. Seymour, James E.Shanahan, Robert E. Shields. Robert J. Simon, Kurt G.   ..—  S.OO 20.00 2.00 5.00 3.00  Kirby. Lt. Edward 9. Kirby, James H. .. Kuehn. Richard P. KuU, Guy J. Lange, Louis A. .—  1.00 5.00 2.00 1.00 3.00  Bmccdi, Sgt. Mattbew J. Delligan. Dr. Francis W. Burch, Raymond M. Burke, James R.Cardinal. Ralph M., Jr.  ^  1.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 5.00  Shapero, Joseph B. _ Sharp. Wmiam J., Jr. Shields, Edward M. Siegfried. Robert MeB.Sloan, Alexander I,.  ­ 5.00 5.00 25.00 25.00 3.00  
Slattery,  John  A.  15.00  Laws, Dr. Kenneth  F.  60.00  Cattle,  Eugene  L  ,,  10.00  Stroker, Ensign  Cyril  F.  5.00  
Sluszka.  Sigmund  J.  —  6.00  Lchan,  Lt. John P.  —  10.00  Claeys,  Jerome  C ,  Jr. .  .  25.00  Stmek.  Winiam  U  2.00  
Smith.  Eward  J.  .  5.00  Link,  Howard  C.  1.00  Coyle. Lt. John J.  5.00  Sullivan,  Richard  P.  lO.OO  
Stanford.  John  W., Jr.  2.00  Loritsch,  John  A.  5.00  Gronin,  Arthur D.,  Jr.  —™.  100.00  TrooidBle. Robert V.  2.00  
Thompson. Thomas W.. Jr.  5.00  Lounst>erry, Lt. Eugene  P. .  10.00  Cronin,  Robert  J,  .  5.00  Vittep,  Albert  L., Jr.  —  10.00  
Tourck.  Qaude  W.  10.00  Manning.  Robert  A.  1.00  Dahill,  Edward  J.  2.00  Waldron, Janes  A.  10.00  
Toussaint,  Joseph  A.  10.00  Masterson,  John  A.  1.00  Danbom, Laurence E.  E.0O  WalUdh, John M.  I.OO  
Van Huisseling, Edward J.  —  2.00  Matus.  Walter  J.  2.00  Desmond,  Lt.  John  J. — —  5.00  Weakley, L t  Harry M.  _  2.0O  
Vairo, Dominic M.  5.00  McAuliffe,  Roljert  A.  2.00  Druecker,  Harold  J.  .  T.OO  Weiss; Lawrence L.  6.00  
Verbanc,  John  J.  S.OO  McCabe, Robert F.  25.00  Dunn.  James  H.  5.00  Wdeh,  Joeeph  J.  7.00  
Vukovich, Francis J.  S.OO  McCormack,  Lt.  Donnell  J. _  25.00  English, Joseph R.  5.00  Williek,  Leo  M.  10.00  
Wackerman. Adrian J.  10.00  McKenna, James F.  5.00  Falsloni.  Daniel  P.  „  5.00  ZelOer.  Ckrard  J.  5.00  
Waite.  Harry  T., Jr.  25.00  McNally,  Edward  T.  2.00  Farabaugh,  John  G.  25.00  
Weber,  Carl W.  1.00  McNeile,  George  R.  _  25.00  Fischer,  Edward  W. —-™—  5.00  *  892.50  
Wiggins,  Cyril  A.  5.00  McVinney,  Rev.  Russell  J.  —  10.00  Fox.  Lt.  Edward  A.  11.00  
Williamson. CharlesWinkel, Matthew J.   T.  10.00 5.00  Milton,Moran,  George E.  John J.  10.00 15.00  Fraser, Clarence G.Froning, J. Fendall   -——  1.00 3.00  1938  
Wunderly,  Harry  L.  —  5.00  Moriarty,  George  J.  5.00  Gagnier,  Lt. James L.  5.00  Anderaon, L t  Pani  H.  12.00  
Youngerman,  Daniel  J.  25.00  Moty.  Gilbert  R.  15.00  Garland,  Laurence R.  —~  1.00  Anton, John  F.  5.00  
Moynahan,  Robert  B. _  5.00  Gillespie, Ensign  Basil  G.  2.00  Annbmster,  Hugh  J.  5.00  
S 1,969.33  Murray, Lt. Francis J.  _  25.00  Gillespie, John A.  2.00  Armel, William  B,  10.00  
Nevils,  Charles  E.  5.00  . Gleassey,  John  W.  1.00  Barrack, Roger  G.  1.00  
1936  Nigro, Lt. JosephNorton, John W.   A.  _  5.00 1.00  Goldsmith. Edmund F. Grogan, Lt. Robert L.  2.00 25.00  Bauer, Burnett C. Beer, Sg t John J.  LDO 30.00  
Adamson,  Thomas  E.  1.00  Novak,  Stephen  B.  25.00  Hack.  James  G.  3.00  Belanger. Cpl.  George O. .  2.00  
Barber,  John  T.  5.00  O'Connor, Michael J.  —  5.00  Hartz,  Bernard  F.  5.00  BorowsU.  Charles  C.  1.00  
Baum,  Arthur  A.  15.00  O'Connor,  William  M. .  25.00  Hayt,  Lt.  Edward  J.  2.00  Boorke.  John  T.  2.00  
Baur.  Adelbert  C ,  Jr.  10.00  O'Keefe,  James  C.  5.00  Heatherman, Ensign  Bowes,  CUet  Richard  J.  1.00  
Belden.  'William  H.  15.00  O'Malley,  Pvt.  John  G.  25.00  K. Joseph  10.00  Boyle.  Daniel  E.  1.00  
Belmont, Roman  P.  5.00  Ott, Joseph N.  5.00  Hickey,  Louis  J.  25.00  Brennan, Ensign Edward J. .  3.00  
Bernard,  Robert  F.  2.00  Palkovic, Lawrence S. .  2,00  HoUenbach.  Louis  J., Jr.  25.00  Brogger, L t  George J.  10.00  
Binder,  George  A.  1.00  Palmer.  Charles  C. _  5.00  Hughes,  Thomas  J.  5.00  Brosins, Charles T.  3.00  
Brady, Lt. John G.Bray, John F. _^   (M.D.)  10.00 3.00  Palumbo, Lt. Leo J. _ Pieroni, Charles M. —  2.00 2.00  Huisking. EdwardHuter. Albert H.   P.  5.00 5.00  Brown. Charles II. Bnran, Dr. Robert J.  5.00 2.00  
Brown,  Paul  H.  3.00  Prendergast, Lt. Joseph  P.  10.00  Judae,  Adolph  J.  15.00  Buckley, John L.  27.00  
Buckley, WilliamBurke. James B.  A. —  3.00 5.00  Quinn, James J. Rocco. Julius P.  5.00 1.00  Johnston. BenjaminJordan, William V.   D.  —  2.50 1.50  Burgess,Bomell,  L t James G. Maximilian  ­ 5.00 3.00  
Byrne,  Conai  J.  2.00  Rubeck,  Rev.  Knlman, C. Joseph  3.00  Callaghan, Sg t  John A. .  5.00  
Carideo,  Frederick  J.  ­ 5.00  Benedict L., O.F.M.C.  5.00  Kelly,  Francis  P.  11.00  Callahan,  L t  Joseph  A.  35.00  
Cavanaugh, Robert W. .. Church, August J. Collins. Richard J.. Jr.  10.00 10.00 10.00  Rubly. Paul E. Schmidt, Lt. Joseph W. Schmuhl. William J.  5.00 10.00 5.00  Kelly, Cpl. John E. Kennedy, William J. King, Karl G.. Jr.  2.00 1.00 2.00  Carson, Edward H. Clottse, Michael P., Jr.Anonymous  _  5.00 1.00 5.00  
Cook. Robert F. Coyne. John V. Cummings, Paul W. Cushing. Leo J. Darcy. William J. Deichmann, Fred A.. II Del Gaizo, Carmine L. .. De Wald, Paul C. Donly, John C. Donnelly, Bernard P. Donovan. Lt. Alan E.  1.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00  Schrenker, Ensign Paul E. — Shaffer, Capt. John F. (M.D.) Sheehan, John J. Sibr, Lawrence F. —-. — Siddall, Ensign James J. Simmons, Robert F. Skelly. John J. Smith. Edward C. Jr. Snooks, Richard W. Sullivan, Joseph D. Swords, James D.  10.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 S.OO S.OO 5.00 5.00 1.00  Kirk, Wilfred B Koehler, Harry F. Krueger, Marvin A. Lattimer, Kenneth C. Lechner, John J. . Levi, James H. Levicki, John J. Ling, Eugene F. Linn, Barry R. Lynch. William J. McCann, Justin C.  2.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 5.00  Connor. L t David J. — Corcoran, Joseph M. Cosgrove, Francis P. — Cbttingham, John C. Crowe, L t Emmett H. __ Cruiee, L t "nmothy J. ­Currier, Donald F. _ Dnrk, L t Melville E. — Delaney. Francis J., Jr. Di Matteo, Joseph A. — Dineen, Joseph D.  15.00 5.00 2.00 2.00 3.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 10.00 5.00 5.00  
Dorris.  Thomas  B.  5.00  Tancredi,  Nicholas  J. —  5.00  McCarthy,  Thomas  L.  10.00  Doozen,  Cari  W.  10.00  
Dutton, James J. Epier, Edward P. '. Esch, Edward R. Farrell, William J. Fitzmaurice, Joseph L. Plannery, Cpl. William E.Gabriel, Dr. Frederick R.Gabriel, Dr. Louis T., Jr.Goldman, Sgt. Erwin L. Gomes, Rev. Anthony M.Gorman, John E.  — — — —  1.00 1.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 5.00  Theis, Capt. Edward F. Themes, Matthew J. — Tobin, Eugene E. Tofuri, Paschal A. Vameau, Arthur L. — Vesey, George W., Jr. . Voorde, Edward F. Walker, John W. Wall, Hugh E., Jr. Wallensach, Maurice F. . Walsh, William A., Jr.  2.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 25.00 5.00 25.00 1.00 6.00  McGuire. Francis T. Mclncrny, Matthew R. Mcintosh, Joseph K. McMahon, Joseph P. Murray, Capt. Clay McN. Neaher, Edward R. Nickol, Sgt. Robert W. Nienaber, Walter J. — Nims, John F. Nolan, James J. — Nyikos, Joseph M.  25.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 25.00 2.00 20.00  Dreiling, J. Alvin DroUa, Francis J. Duggan, Eugene R. Duncan. J. Walter, Jr. — Ervin, Robert F. Fiedler, Raymond E. Fitzgerald, Thranas M. Fitzpatriek, Ensign George F. Flynn, Thomas F. Furtioo, Pan! F. Fox, Ensign John P.. Jr  5.00 5.00 25.00 25.00 2.00 20.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00  

Fnv,  T.nniR  A  30.00  Schmitz.  John  G.  5.00  Fitzsimmons, Lt. Robert E.  
Fov.  lit. Thnm.-is  P  .  25.00  Scott.  Capt.  John  A  1.00  Flanigan.  Charles  J.  
Gallagher,  Pf c  Charles M.  _  2.00  Shannon.  Michael  F.  10.00  Foster,  Harvey  G,  , ,,  
Gallin.  William  H. Jr.  6.00  Shields,  Pvt.  Phillip  J.  _  3.00  Frank,  Maurice  N.  
Cnrvpy,  ThnTnjm  M.  5.00  Sixsmith,  William  L.  2.00  Fransioli,  Francis  P.  
Gerl,  Pv t  Richard  M.  5.00  Skoglund.  Leonard  H.  _  108.00  Frericks,  Theodore  P.  .  
Gibbons,  William  J.  30.00  Smith,  Donald  H.  10.00  Fricke,  Carl  H.  
10.00  Smith  Donald  L.  2.50  Fritz,  Philip  G.  .  
Greene,  Sst.  Thomas  E.  1.00  Smith,  Dr.  Eugene  J  1.00  Gallagher,  John  C  
Hnrker,  Thnmns  V.  8.00  Snell,  Edward  W.  10.00  Gallagher,  Robert  J.  
Hackman,  Capt. Robert H.  10.00  Sokerka.  Pvt. Andrew  R.  10.00  Garab.  Richard  J.  
Hager,  Edward  G.  25.00  SuUivan,  Lt.  George R.  _.  5.00  Gartland, Francis  X., Jr.  
HagKar,  Edmund  R,  962.50  Sullivan,  James  F.  5.00  Geerts,  Marcellus  J.  
Hardnrt  Thomas  R.  15.00  Sweeney,  Charles  A.  2.00  Gerend.  Walter  J.  
Harris.  L t  Walter  J.  5.00  Tallman. Clifford P.  25.00  Geyer,  George  E.  
Hnyp<s,  JnMn .T  5.00  Terri".  Charles  P.  S.OO  Green,  James  J.  
Hend,  John  T  3.00  Tharinger,  Robert  N.  —  5.00  Griffin,  John  J., Jr.  
Henebry,  Joseph  A., Jr.  2.00  Thompson, Richard J.  1.00  Gutowski,  John  Z.  
Wpcp, T.nwrpn'''*  fJ  10.00  Tobin,  John  L.  2.00  Hagerty,  John  M. .  .—  
Hickey,  Ensign  Donald  F.  25.00  Trefzer,  Theodore  W.  10.00  Hanlon,  Kyron  W. .____  
Holtz.  Cadet  Robert  F.  3.00  Uniacke,  Capt.  Edward  A.  2.00  Harrington,  Joseph  H. ...  
Ho\v.nrd, George C  3.00  Valetich, Lt. Francis P.  20.00  Herrick.  William  K.  
5.00  Vance,  Casimer  E.  7.00  Heywood, Robert B.  
.Tnhnson,  Gpnrpp  W  2.00  Vaslett.  Eugene  F.  1.00  Hiegel.  Joseph  J,  
Kavanaugh. EdwardKnvonv, WilHntn F   S.  10.00 1.00  Ward. EnsignWaters. John  John S.  R., Jr.  2.00 5.00  Higby. Pfc. KennethHilbert, Joseph M.   E., Jr,  
Keenan. George E., Jr. K-»IIy, .Tnhn C. Kennedy. Manrire .T Kerwin. Ensign George D. K#M!tfke, Frj^T>(»iK K Kinderman, Edwin M. Kinnealey, Thomas F.  10.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 2.00 10.00  Weaver, Robert C. Webster, Charles R. Welch, Leo P., Jr. Williams. Sgt. HaroldWinter, Francis J. Wrape, Henry E. Zerbst. John R.   A.  1.00 5.00 15.00 5.00 2.00 25.00 5.00  Hildebrandt. Sgt. Hugo J. Hoag, Robert J.. Jr. Hogan. Thomas B. — Honerkamp. Frederick W, Howard, William P. Huether, Robert W. Hughes, Joseph M.  
Knusman. Theodore J. TTnlp, Cbarl««i A , Jr  20.00 S.OO  $ 2,473.00  Hunt. Russell L. . Hyncs. John C.  
KmvplKki,  Fdmiind  S  2.00  Istvanovic,  Arthur  L.  
Kuharich, Lt. Joseph L. T^wv, T.t_ .Tnhn W. Lahey. Capt. James H. Lamberto, Lt. Roman N. Larwood, Franklin E. T.niirp, fiwirjrp R T.<»nn!ird, Rnhprt V  10.00 10.00 1.00 10.00 35.00 2.00 5.00  1939 Adrian, Joseph L. Akolt, L t John P. Aleksis, Lt. Norhert A. . Armel, Thomas N. Amrhcin, Ensign Nicholas  C.  lO.OD 2.00 5.00 2.00 2.00  Jaeger, John F. Jaxtheimer. John G. Jenkins. Xorman 6. Johnson, Dr. James A. .. Johnson, Walter H., Jr. Kaczmarek. Jerome J. _ Kalman, Thomas J,  
T.ip<:ie, T.f. TTpnrv T 10.00 T.nnfrrpn, Tlr, John C 50.00 Macdougal, Carleton G. 1.00 Mnpf^, Jpromp R 25.00 MnhotlPV, .Tnhn P 5.00 Masterson, Ensign Christopher R. 1.00 Mnthpv. William .T 2.00 Mattingly. Sg t Edward J. 1.00 Maurin. Ernest P., Jr. 3.00 McCarthy, William P. 2.00 Mprmth, BnViort A 1.00 MrKendrv, John C. 5.00 Mever, Fmnpis .T. 10.00 Wnnrf^, EHwnrd ­T 25.00 Moiililpr, John R 12.00 Mtilhem, Ensign Francis A. 10.00 Mullen, Ensign Robert J. 10.00 5.00 'Miirrip, -Tnhn TV 10.00 Myeri:, .Tnmp<! TV 15.00 Nolan, Ensign William H. 25.00 Vnwnir, Paul f. 10.00 O'Brien. Yeoman Thomas W. 10.00 O'Connell, Martin J., Jr. 10.00 O'Laughlin, Francis J. 3.00 O'Meara, Alfred M., Jr. 30.00 O'Mpara, Dennis K. 5.00 20.00  Baltes, John W. Barnett, Ensign Thomas C.Bennett, Charles R.Blessing, Michael L. Bossort, Thomas R. Bossu, Lt. August F. Bradley, Major Francis X. Brennan, William J. , Brown, Albert L. , Brown. Sgt. Richard J. -Burkholder, Richard M. Carroll, Lt. Edward J. ­Carroll, William E. Colla. Lt. John B. Clarke, Lt, Edward T. ^ Clifford, James A, Colgan. Charles J. Converse, Lt. Robert F. Cuthbertson. Robert H. -Da Pra, Sgt. Luina L. „ Deale, Valentine B. Deane, John J. De Coursey, Vincent W. Demer, Louis J. Denten, Albert G. Derengoski, Robert A. — Bigby, Frederick J. Donnelly, John P. Donovan, Paul M.  . .  25.00 1.00 5.00 2.00 1.00 25.00 25.00 3.00 5.00 10.00 4.00 2.00 35.00 100.00 4.75 10.00 1.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 6.50 10.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 25.00 2.00  Kane, Raymond A. Kavtsak, Robert J. Kelley. Capt. Paul K. « . Kelly, Ensign Francis B. . Kelly, Francis R. Kennedy, Capt Robert D. Wing, Ernest F. Klister, Irving F. Kovalcik, George J, -^ Kristan, Julius R. __-Kvasnak, Cornelius J. Lacroix, Lucien J, , , Lardie, Howard L. Lauck, Francis J. La Vigne, Ernest F. Le Roy, Bernard F. Lynch, John E. Maes. Arnold A. ­-Maher, Thomas A. Mahoney, Ensign William P. Malesh. William H. Maloney, L t Philip J. Martin, Roland A. Maurello. Marion J. McAuliffe, L t John E. McDermott L t Edward G McDermott, Joseph E, . McDonald, Joseph L.^ Jr.  
Pipfc,  Robert  R  5.00  Doyle,  John  T.  5.00  McEnearney,  Alfred B.  
Plouff,  Ensign  John  F.  5.00  Doyle,  Lawrence  A.  10.00  McFarland.  Charles  B.  
Poore, ,Tohn N Pnpp, Ralph T..  5.00 l.DO  Dray. Ensign JosephDreiling, Virj^l T.   F..  10.00 5.00  McGinnis, L t Martin S. McGoldrick, James G. J.  
PiTplic, Andrew .T  1.00  Driggs, Harry S.  5.00  McGovern, John J., Jr.  
QniTtl^Ti,  TVanipl  O'n  1.00  Duffy.  John  R.  5.00  McGuinness,  John  L.  
Quinlan,  Ensign  Thomas  F.  25.00  Duggan,  William  R.  2.00  McGuire, John A.  .  
Race,  Adrian  J  5.00  Dunn,  Ensign  Joseph  M.  5.00  McGuire,  Michael  J. .  
Radijrj,n,  Thomas  .T  5.00  Englehart, Lt. Charles J.  ­ 1.00  McKamara,  L t  Charles  A.  
26.00  Fagan,  Bernard  J. ____„-,  6.00  McNeils,  James  T.  .  
Reynolds.  Clark  U  5.00  Faller,  Gerald  M.  1.00  Merrill,  Edward  H„  Jr.  
RoBch,  Sgt,  John  W.  5.00  Farrell,  Edward  G.. Jr.  _.  2.00  Meskill,  David  T.  
Srannell,  Richard  ,T  25.00  Feeney,  Sgt.  Bernard  J. .  2.00  Metzger.  Charles J,  
.Schercr.  Otto  K. .  7.00  Fitzpatrick,  Francis  E. —  15.00  Metzger,  Harry  

2.00 2.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 25.00 5.00 2.00 10.00 B.OO 2.00 1.00 5.00 . 10.00 10.00 2.00 3.00 
5.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 25.00 6.00 5.00 
1.00 5.00 
25.00 2.00 . 5.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 13.40 5.00 3.00 1.00 
10.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 10.00 25.00 2.00 10.00 3.00 
1.00 
2.00 2.00 I.OO 5.00 10.00 1.00 10.00 5.00 1.00 
5.00 
120.00 3.00 3.00 
21.00 2.00 5.00 
21.00 5.00 6.00 
26.00 5.00 
10.00 1.00 2.00 
10.00 6.00 6.00 
Mpvpr, Jrmes G 1.00 Miller, Pvt. John ,T. 6.00 Mitchpll, Mart J, Jr 6.00 
Moorman, Lt. Joseph B. 5.00 
2.00 
2.00 
2.00 
Mnrphy, Ttr, DnTiipl M 1.00 
Murray, William S. 25.00 
TJagpI, Carl .T, 6.00 
3.00 
O'Cnnnor, .Tnhp C 10.00 
O'Hara, John F, . 6.00 
O'Laughlin. Francis J. 2.00 
O'Melia, Capt. Richard J. _ 5.00 
O'Neil. George M., Jr. 10.00 
rirtnlp, RnhpH-M 6.00 
O'Shpn PafripV R 1.00 
Parks, Cpl. Francis R. 1.00 
Penrose, Lt. James H. 1.00 
Pfafr, Franpis R 6.00 
Pick. Robert B. 15.00 
Piedmont. William T 5.00 
Piercecchi, Sgt. Robert J. — 5.00 
Plain, George F., Jr. 5.00 
Quinn, James L., Jr. 10.00 
Rnaf. .Tamps J. , 5.00 
Radelet. Sgt. Louis A. 3.00 
Rasor. Lt. Charles B. 15.00 
Reardon. Thomas McG 5.00 
2.00 
Reppenhagen, Ensign 
Frnnris A.. TV . S.OO 
Respondek, Alphonsc M. 5.00 
Rice, Joseph Gregory 10.00 Ricke, William TT. . 25.00 Riley, Dr. Charles R. _ 2.00 Rizzi, Auretius J. 15.00 Rizzi, Harold C 3.00 .Sabo. Carl T. 6.50 Sadowski, Pvt. Chester P. 5.00 Sadowski, Edward M. 5.00 
•Srarlnta, .Salvatore P 3.00 Schirf, Lt. Robert F. 28.00 Schleck. Raymond M. -. 25.00 Schmitz, Albert J. 4.00 
.<?phmidt TIanipl C. 16.00 
Srhorsch, Robert S. 10.00 Schroeder, Harry J., Jr. 1.00 .Srhroeder, RoTjert 0 6.00 .Schultze, John O 10.00 Selna, Ensign Arthur J. 1.00 Sendrock, Ensign Peter F. — 10.00 Shannon, Michapl F 5.00 .Shpa, Thomas M 2.00 Sheppard, Robert A., Jr. 1.00 Short, Walter J 5.00 Siegel, Sgt. John A. 50.00 Simon, Lt, Julius F 5.00 Sisk, Pvt. Frederick E. 1.00 
5.00 
.«;trpatnr, Tharlps TT 2.50 
Stubblefield, Edward M. 5.00 
Stulb, Capt. Timothy J. 10.00 
Sullivan, Bpmard J 6.00 
5.00 Sullivan. Joseph P., Jr. 3.00 Tnnspy, .Tamps C. 5.00 Theispn. Charles J. 3.00 
Thomas, Rnhprf ,T, 10.00 Tonpr, FPMT J. 10.00 Tonsmeire, .Tnlien C 8.00 
Tormpy, .Tamps J 15.00 
Trentacoste, Salvatore P. . 1.00 Tully, Paul C 1.50 Voelker, Robert F. 3.00 Volberding, Alfred C. 5.00 Von Hocne. Edwin A. 1.00 Waehter, Ralph F. 4.00 Wagner, Italph F 5.00 Walker, Lt. Thomas A. 3.00 
2.00 Walsh, Cpl. John E., Jr. 2.00 Waters. Lt. William H., Jr. _ 10.00 Wehpr, .Tnhn TT 10.00 

Wcssels, Sgt. John E. 5.00 Flood. Paul J. 
2.00 Meaney, John W. _ Wheeler. John B., Jr. 3.00 
Flynn, Ensign Gerald J. 25.00 Mercado. Victor R. 
White. William P.. Jr. 20.00 Wilson. Lt. Andrew F. 25.00 
Gavan, Ensign John D. 1.00 Metzger, LL Richard A. . Geary, Lt. Cornelius E., Jr. 5.00 Meyers, William T. 
Wintcrrowd. Earll H. 5.00 Geddes, William H. 5.00 Michaels, Carroll A. 
Zachek. Ensicn Thaddeus P. 25.00 Zerhe. Earl M. 3.00 
Gentle, Anthony F. 1.00 Miholich, Ferdinand E.. Jr. Gerwe, Joseph J., Jr. 2.00 Milford, George J. .
Zinn. EuBcne R. 2.00 Gibbons, James J. 5.00 Miholich, John C. -
Zuendel. Joseph C. 2.00 Gilliland, Donald R. 3.00 Miltncr, Francis H. . 
Gilrane, John J. 3.00 Minczeski, Edward V. 
$ 1,759.15 Goff, Lt. Kenneth J. 5.00 Mtnogue, Thomas J. Golden, Ensign Philip E. . 2.00 Mooney, Alan B. 1940 Conring, Lt. Matthew N. , 5.00 Moore, James T. -__ Allaire, Royal P. 2.00 Grisanti. Robert C. 2.00 Morgan, John B. Allesa, Francis R. 5.00 Gschwend. Paul J.. H 5.00 Morrissey, Gerard E. Allen, Raymond R. 1.00 Guindon. Francis X. 5.00 Morrisssy. Cpl. Wi'liam J. . Anderson, Edgar H. 10.00 Gunter, Lt. Francis E. 10.00 Morrison, Ensign Paul M. -ArmitaKe, Hanry G. 5.00 Anonymous 1.250.00 Mulqueen, Capt Joseph H. . Armstrong, Joseph J. 25.00 Hackett, John W.. Jr. ___. 5.00 Murphy, Francis J. Auhrey. Edward C. 5.00 Hatecker, Ensign Edward E, 1.00 Nolan, Robert J. Aubrey, Pvt. Francis Y. 1.00 Hackman, Paul W. 10.00 Noonan, Lt. Maurice E. Bangert, Capt. Douglas A. , 25.00 Haggerty, Capt. George G. S.OO Norbert Brother CFX Barreda, Lt. Fructuoso G. 10.00 Hall. Burt J. 5.00 Norris, Hrrry L. . Becker, George W. 2.00 Halpin, Ensign William F. 1.00 Oherbruner, Pvt Kenneth L. Bcrcik, Capt. Julius 5.00 Hart. Edward J. 5.00 O'Brien, Lt. Charles J. 1.00 
Bernard, Sgt. David J. Hart, Pvt. Joseph F. 1.00 O'Brien. Lt. John J. Bcrtany, Robert E. — 5.00 Hencbry, C-pt. John P. . 2.00 O'Connor, Pfc. Joseph E. -Biagi. Lt. Francis W. _ 5.00 Hickey. Paul E. 2.00 O'Donnell, Hugh K. 
Bichon, Eugene W. .— 10.00 HoolTstetter, Robert T. 1.00 O'Gorman, Kevin M. -BlJiks, Lt. Robert W. _ 2.00 Horn. Pvt. George T. 2.00 O'Hare. William G. Blong. Victor J. 5.00 Hosinski. Donald E. 5.00 O'Meara, Sgt. Edward F. Boisvert, Lt. Harold V. 5.00 Howard, Lt. Robert I. 25.00 O'Reilly. Thomas J. -Bolchoz, William M. 1.00 Huff. L t Edward G. 12.00 Peterson. Leroy E. — Bt^nd, Nathaniel 2.00 Hushe'k, Sgt, Daniel J. _ 5.00 Philion, Richard J. ­
- Borda, Ensign Henry P. 15.00 Huston, Edward A. 1.00 Phillips, Capt Harry H. _ Borgman. Paul A. 5.00 Hutchens. Charles K.. Jr. 10.00 Philpott, Capt Thomas M. Bourke, Sgt. Norman F. 2.00 Hyde. Pvt David F. 5.00 Pieters. Charles E. Bowler, Harold H. 5.00 Tmholz. Berchman J. 1.00 I'inelli, Roy W. Bozich, Samuel S. 1.50 .Tohnston. Burley C, Jr. 2.50 Plummer. Sgt. James W. Bright, Francis E. . 5.00 Joyce, John J. , 5.00 Poulin. John G. Brodberger, John B. •1.00 .To--ce, Sgt. William L. 1.00 Quinn. Cpl. Carl E. Brown, James G. 5.00 Julian, John D. 6.00 Hifalskc. Medard F. Browning. John T. 10.00 Kaczmarek. Richard C. 5.00 Reddy, John J. Burns, William G. 1.00 Kamm. Wilber A. 10.00 Reilly, Louis J. Cnnnon, William J. 1.00 Karr, Lt. George R. 10.00 Reilly. Peter J. Casper. James T. 2.00 Keen, Edward C. _ 5.00 Rogers, Jchn F. Cenni, Loi'is J., Jr. 1.00 Kelleher. John C. 2.00 Rosanc'li, Edward G. Cintron, Juan E. 1.00 Kelly. Lt. Richard B. _. 2.00 Rosbach. Philip F. 
2.00 

Cinlino, Lt. Francis V. Kelsey, Charles M. 10.00 Ryan. Vincent J. Cleary, William F. 50.00 Kenny, James N. ™. 10.00 Sackley. Donald J. Cobb, Charles L. 5.00 Kerwin. William F., Jr. 5.00 Saegert. Gerald W. Connolly, Robert J. 8.00 Klein, Howard A. 1.00 Sandmaicr, Philip J., Jr. Cnrgzm, Michrel H. 1.00 ICnaus, Joseph A. 10.00 Sanford, Robert G. Conuillard. Alexis E.. Jr. 5.00 Koss, Aloysius J. _ 20.00 Santini, L t Leo A. Costello, Cpl. George K. 2.00 Laughlin, Daniel F. 1.00 Savord, John E. ... Crawford. Bernard K. 5.00 Lavelle, Anthony E. 25.00 Saiia, Lt Robert F. Cummings, Ensign J. P., Jr. 5.00 Lawrence, Brother 1.00 Schalliol. Carl M. Curran. Lt. Jnmes E. 1.00 Layton, Dewey C, Jr. _ 10.00 Schalliol, Earl D. Gushing. Lt Bernard J. 5.00 Lenihan. Paul G. 10.00 Schmid. Thomas G. Darrouzet. Lt. John L.. Jr. 10.00 LePage, Sgt. J. Roch, Jr. 1.00 Schmit Cpl. Robert F. — Dau?;herty, Philip V. 3.00 Letcher, John C. _ 2.00 Schultz, Lt. Robert J. Delahanty, Edward L., Jr.. 1.00 Linnehan, John J. 2.00 Shcehan, Qarence T. Del Gaizo. Joseph P. 5.00 Loughery. Robert J. 50.00 Sitko, Steven J. Dell. Cpl. Charles E. 2.00 Lynch, James H. 1.00 Skelly, Joseph W. 
Devine. Eugene J., Jr. 5.00 Lyng, Pfc. Richard 5.00 Slabaugh. Robert A. 
Dil!on. Ensign John C , Jr. m.fio Mack. L t John E. 5.00 Smith. Tcrrence J. DiMon, Pfc. William R. 2.50 Maconi, Louis P. 
3.00 Sobczak. Joseph A. Dolce. Russell J. 2.00 Maher, Ensign Edward J. 1.00 Spencer, Pv t Norbert J. . 
2.00 Spohr, Joseph G. 

Donnelly, Christopher J., Jr. 3.00 Marker. Thomas P. 
Donoghue. Lt. James V. 15.00 Mathey, Cpl. Joseph R. — 2.00 Sprafke, David W. Donovan. Gerald K. 3.00 Mlthieu, Edward J. 
25.00 Stegmaier, Otto C, Jr. Dowd, Henry R. S.OO Matson, William J. 5.00 Sukiennik. Pf c Matthew S. Dray, Welter L. 2.00 Matthews. Edward E. 1.00 Sullivan, Pvt Daniel J. 
Driscoll, Donald B. 1.00 McCarthy, Thomas P, 10.00 Sullivan. Floyd J. Driscoll, Francis S. 20.00 McClarren, James P. 
5.00 Sullivan, L t James H. . Else. John G. 5.00 McFarland. Fiitrick F. 25.00 Sullivan, L t Robert E. .; Engcl, Henry K. 2.00 McGuire, Joseph J. 5.00 Sullivan, Robert G. 
5.00 Swanser, Bernard A. 

Ephgravc, Charles W. 2.00 Mclnemy, William F. 
5.00 Thesing. Joseph R. 

Ernst, Pvt. Francis J. 1.00 Mclntyre, L t John A. Fall=n. Richard L.. Jr. S.OO M(Kenna, Thomas J. 
5.00 Thomas, William S. 
25.00 Tieman, Robert J. . 

Fay. Cpl. William C. 2.00 McKcnna. William S. Fcltcs. John R. 10.00 McKeon, Pvt. Joseph M. . 
5.00 Toyne, Francis W. 

Fergus. Francis E. 5.00 McManus, Sgt. Robert R. _ 1.00 Tracey, Edward J. 
5.00 Urbanski, Lt. Louis A. 

Finneran, John C. 10.00 McQueen, James R. 
2.00 Varga. James A. .. 

Fl.inagan, John C. 1.00 McVay, William P. 
SO.OO 2.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 
100.00 1.00 
10.00 1.00 5.00 3.00 
25.03 3.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 
10.00 
10.00 I.OO 5.00 
s.no 
1.00 
5.00 
S.00 
10.00 
11.00 3.20 5.00 2.00 5.00 
10.00 2.00 5.00 
10.00 7.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 
20.00 5.00 3.00 3.00 5.00 
10.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 2.50 2.50 5.00 6.00 2.00 1.00 3.00 2.00 3.00 
10.00 5.00 2.00 3.00 3.00 2.00 3.00 7.00 2.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 10.00 I.OO 5.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 125.00 5.00 
Wallace, George S. Walsh, Myles J. Warbarton, Walter K. 
Weilbacher, L t Charles O. . Whitford, Joseph C. Wicks, William K. WiUe. Robert U 
Willmann, John B. 
Wilson, George P. 
Wilson. John E. 
Wttchger. Robert W. Wolf, John M. Worley, Lloyd F. : Waebbold, Walton J, Wurtiebaeh, Ensign Edw. P. 
3.00 5.00 S.00 2.50 
10.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 2.00 
10.00 
2S.0O 5.00 2.00 
58.00 
$2,997.20 
1941 
Alfs, George W. Altman. Ensign Arnold D. — Altman, Ensign Herman S. Apone, Louis W. ~-— Aselagc. John B. Aylward. James P. Bagan. Earl D. Bairler. Cpl. Roy J. Barry. John W. Bartl. Robert L. Baum, L t William A., Jr. — Behe, Lt. Francis J. Belden. Richard F. Bcnedosso, Pvt Anthony A. Bernard, Ensign Anthony M. Bischofr. Ensign Robert H. Boyle. L t Robert W. Bracken, L t Lawrence H. Brady, Ensign Wade J. Brennan, Walter J., Jr. Brodbeek. Walter F. Brogger, Charles C. Broussard, Joseph E. Browniield, Paul W. , Buber, Luther W. Buckler, Pvt. J. L. Buckley, L t aifford G. Buenger, William E. __ Bums, Lawrence A. Bums, Pvt Robert E., Jr. _ Bums, William J. Carroll, James P. Casey, Lt Joseph E. Cassidy. T. Donald Cattie, Joseph F. Chamberlain, Eugene M. .— Chaput, Elmer P. Collins, Kenneth J. — Comins, Ensign Francis H. Connor, Thomas H. Corbett James J. Cotter, L t William E., Jr. . 
Cronin, Walter J. CunniiT. Charles L. Curtis, James B. Daly, William T. Deahl, Warren A. Deal, Elvin J. De Lay, L t Eugene E. . De Lay, Paul R. Delia, Thomas A. Del Zoppo, Albert J. — Derenme. Ensign August J. Dillon. Sgt Charles E. Doll, Jesse L. Dominie, William W, Boran, Robert J. Dougherty. L t Charles T. Duffy, Maurice J. Dugan, Pf c William M. _ Eby, Lawrence T. Fairley. George E. Fallon, Robert J. Farrell, CpL Eugene R. . Fazzi. Georsre B. 
25.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 30.C0 2.50 1.00 S.OO 
10.00 1.50 10.00 25.00 10.00 
22.00 5.00 6.00 S.OO 
10.00 5.00 5.00 S.OO 
10.00 2.00 5.00 
25.00 5.00 
25.00 2.00 6.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 
10.00 10.00 3.00 2.00 2.00 5.00 25.00 25.00 2.00 10.00 2.00 3.00 1.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 2.00 25.00 
4.30 10.00 
1.00 20.00 2.00 10.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 

Fegan, Ensign Walter W. . Fergruson, Homer W. Fericks, Alfred J. Ferraro. Stephen P. Foley, Capt Koger C. 
Froelich, Jerome J. Futter, Clarence H. Gagan, IrVilliam D. Gainer, Charles D. Gaither, Ensign John F. _ Gallagher, Charles R.. Jr. Gartland. Cpl. James M. . Gero, John B. ,.„.. 
Gerra, Ensign Ralph A. ~ 

.Conner, Lt. James A. Grady, Ensign Thomas F, Graham, Edward A. Graham. Harold E. Greene, Charles E., Jr. Greene, George W. Grohmyer, Lt. John C. Guiltinan, Joseph P. Haller. Ensign Edward H. Hamel. Philip J. Hanly, Ensign Edward J. . Hannon, John W. Hartung, Walter H. Hawes, Ensign William R. . Heckler, Norman B. Heinzen, Cpl. Anthony C. _ Henke, Lawrence W., Jr. ­Hennessy, Lt. John M. — Hickey. Gerald A. Holl. Ensign Frederick K. Hopkins, Francis J. Horgan, Lt. Thomas G. Hock, Pv t Thomas E. Hultgren, Edward L. Hmnby, Lt. Arthur J. Hurst, Donald R. Hiff, Robert E. Ingwersen, Harrln L. Jacques, C. Edward _ John, Harry G., Jr. Joyce, John L. 
Judge, Thomas G. Jrsten, Cpl. Daniel A. Kamm, Elmer J. Kane, John J. Kattcr, George W. Keleher. Edwin W. Kelly, Yeoman Edward J. Kelly, Ensign Raymond J., Jr. Kennedy, Lt. Francis B. Kenney, Ensign Robert J. Kerger. Lt. Adolph E. Anonymous Kerrigan, Ensign John R. Koch, Robert J. Kralovec, Ensign Donald E. Kristoff, Lt. Walter W. Kuntz. William J. Landry, George T. Lang, James O. Larson, John W. __ Lauerman, Francis J. Lawler, Joseph V. . Lentz, Frederick E. Link, Francis C. _. MacCarry, Pvt. Noel J. __ MacKenzie, Louis A. Mago, Ensign Bernard A. Maguire, Donald F-Mahoney, Edward A., Jr. . Millck, Pvt. Anthony J. _ Halaney, William C. Haloney, John L. Hanix, Joseph C. _ Marietta, Donald J. . Martiu, Emery W. Maury, George J. McCarthy, Daniel E. McCaugfaey, Michael J. McDonnell, John N. McDonnell, Patrick F. 
1.00 10.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 S.OO 1.00 2.00 
25.00 S.OO 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 
25.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 
25.00 15.00 .•i.OO 5.00 
10.00 
5.00 25.00 10.00 5.00 3.00 2.00 2,00 5,00 S.OO 5.00 S.OO 2.00 
50.00 S.OO 5.00 
10.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 2.00 3.00 8.S9 1.00 1.00 5.00 i.000.00 2.00 2.00 1.00 
10.00 1.00 2.00 
J 0.00 1.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 
10.00 25.00 5.00 SO.OO 1.00 6.00 1.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 2.00 3.00 5.00 
10.00 2.00 

 McDowell, David L. McFarland, Pvt. Philip R. „ McGeever, Ensign Joseph B. McCowan, Lt. William C. McGroder, Lt. Francis J., Jr. McHugh, Edward C. McLaughlin, Lt. Lawrence G. McLaughlin, Robert V. McManus. Thomas P. Meltzer, George F. Miholick, Lt, Matthew J. Monaghan, John H. Moncrief, David B. Moran, Cpl. Robert E. _ . Moulder, Lt. William A. . Muehenkamp, Thomas G. Mullin, Richard P. Murphy. Lt. Edward F. _ Murphy. L t John W. Murphy, Thomas M. Murray. James H., ,Tr. Nace, John F. Necas. Ensign Emmett J. O'Brien, Pv t James J. — O'Brien, John D. O'Brien. Lt John J. O'Dea, Ensign John F. Odcnbach, Robert C. O'Dowd. Ensign Jerome J. Olbrys, Joseph B. ..: Oliveros, L t Charles G., Jr._ O'Loughlin, John F. Patterson, Sg t John W. Perrine, Alfred J., Jr. Petroshius, Lawrence J. • Pilgrim, Lt. Thomas E. Pinelli, Sg t Ralph R. Pivarnik, Edward T. 
Pohl. P^-t Robert R , Jr. Porawski, Ensign Thaddeus S. Porten, Edward M. Powers, L t David L . Powers, L t John S. Puglia, Sg t Paul F. Quinn, L t Edmund J., Jr. . Quinn, Eugene M. Rassas, George J. Reed, L t George DeW. Rehme, Lt Francis J. Reidy. David L. Reilly, Ensign Thomas E. Reis. Ensign Thomas K. Reiser, Louis A. Reishman, Ensign William J. Rejent Sgt. Ronald P. Richardson, Robert E. Rigney, Ensign Thomas J Robidoux, Leo J. Russo, John F. Ryan. Eugene J. Ryan, Jerome A. ..„. Ryan, John M. Sass, Robert E. SchafTner, Irwin J. Schiappacasse, Paul J. Schlafly, Hubert J., Jr. Schlerier, Raymond H. Schmidle. Caudc J. Schmidt, Cpl. Lawrence A. Schreiber, George A. S:hultz. Robert M. .: Sheets, Francis J. Shevland. Sgt Edward V. _. ShouvUn, Roger J. Sievert John W. Somers, Lt Joseph P. Spsca, John M. Stack, Daniel J.. Jr. Stack, Robert N. Sfefanik, Er\*in A. SteidI, John R. Stelte, Ensign Francis G. Stevens, Thomas F. Stine, Charles E. Sugnet Robert F. Sullivan, Daniel G. 
2.00 1.00 10.00 2.00 20.00 10.00 5.00 25.00 2.00 10.00 2.00 10.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 
25.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 2.50 
10.00 25.00 25.00 S.OO S.70 10.00 10.00 5.00 2.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 
10.00 5.00 2.00 
10.00 
10.00 2.00 5.00 
10.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 2.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 3.00 
15.00 10.00 5.00 2.00 10.00 10.00 6.00 12.00 1.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 1.00 15.00 2.00 20.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 30.00 5.00 20.00 5.00 

Connors, Pv t Donald D., Jr. 
1.00 
Corcoran, L t Victor F. 
3.00 
Cordes, Walter J. 
5.00 
Cullinane, Lt Daniel J. 
1.00 
Cutlip. Lorenzo G, 
10.00 
Dahm, Henry L. 
1.00 
Degcr. Charles H. 
S.OO 
Degnan. Thomas F. 
5.00 
De Lois, Sgt Jess F. 
5.00 
Desel. Walter J. 
S.OO 

Devins, Ensign David W. 
1.00 
Diamond. Joseph H, : 
I.OO 

Dillhoeffer, William F. _ 
1.00 
Dickson, Edward J. 
Dillon, Pvt Thour-s E. Ding3s, L t John F. Donahoc, Robert R. — 
Doyle, James P. Doyle, Samuel J. . Drake, Pvt Edson J. Duggan, Daniel F-
Emmenegger, Ensign Edw. J. .Fagnn, Robert J. Fallon, William J. Fankboner, Ucbert G. Farrell, William J. Ferry, Pfc. James P. Finneran, Robert F. Fitzgerald, Robert M. Fit^harris, Thomas J-— FI>-nn, L t Joseph J. Foster, Wilfiam M. Fountain, Lt. Robert L. Frick, Ensign Jiimes E. Fushelberger, Robert J. Gallegos. Edward F. Gait, Pvt James J. Garvoy, Ensign John J. Gibson, Francis E. Gilbert Ensign John W. Glasscr. Phillip W. Goel'-r, Eugene T. Grady. Ensign William H. Griesedicck. Edward J. Guyette. Donald F. Ha-s, Cpl. Joseph F. Haines, Robert C. Hile, Robert W. Haley, Douglas F. Halleck, John C. Hanifin, John F. Hartman, John F. Hartman. William W. Henault Maurice G. Hickey, Lawrence F. Hi'.gartner, L t Daniel E., HI Hogan. Cpl. Vincent P. Hollenhorst Sg t George D. — Horak, Thomas E. Hosinski, William A. Humphrey, Leo M. Humphreys, Michael P. Hunt, Eugene F. . Hutm::cher, Ensign Eugene S. Hutton. Ensign Robert M Imbodcn. Ens. Garence A., Jr. Jacoby, Paul J. -Jaskowski, Ens. Benedict J. Kanaley, Byron V., Jr. Ke.imey, Charles M. Kcenan, Cpl. John E. Kelleher, William L. Kelley, Paul W. Kelly, Mriurice S. Kenedy, Ensign Thomas B . Kilbane, John K. Kirl'y, Kenneth \V. Knott, Joseph W. Lampert, Chester S. . Landers, Cadet Maurice D Leahy, James J. Le Jeune, Robert C. Lenhard, Richard B. Li'lis, Ensign Paul L. Litizzette, Stanley V. LoGiudice, Dominick J. Lohr, Charles B. Lownik, Felix J. Lucier, Phillip J. Luthringer, Cpl. John L. . Macdonald, Douglas J. HacDonald, Ens. Harrison T. MacLeod, L t Archibald A. Madden. William B. Maguire, John P. Hahon, John J. Maierus, Louis C. Malone,' John R. Malone, Robert E. 
2.50 2.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 S.OO 5.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 2.00 5.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 S.OO 1.00 S.OO 5.00 2.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 S.OO 2.00 1.00 5.00 S.OO 1.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 
10.00 1.00 5.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 10.00 5.00 3.00 2.00 1.00 S.OO 1.00 5.00 2.00 I.OO 2.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 10.00 10.00 2.00 25.00 4.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 

Sullivan, Edward J., Jr. Sweeney, Robert M. Syring, William J. Talty, Cpl. Thomrs K Teagnrden, Sg t James L, Tlusty, Cyril J. Tomcik, Edward J. Tormey, John F. Trembley, Pfc. Norman C. _ Trueman, Pvt. lliomas J. . Underriner, Bernard W. Vandervoort Pvt. Albert A. 
Van Huffel, Albert F. Van Swall. Hawley E. Waldron, John F. Walsh, James H. Walsh. John E. Walsh, Lawrence M. Ward, Cpl. John J., Jr. Weist Gordon E. Welly, Robert B. Westhoff. Pvt. Herbert A. ^Vhite, Pvt James A. Wilkins, Noel F. Williams. L t Milton E. _ Williams, -Raymond M. — Wilson, William G. Wingen, William F. Witkowski, Ensign Vernon Woods, Pv t William J. Wr?pe, James D. Yockey, Francis P. Young. John W. . Zeller. George H. Ziebarth, Charles L. Zoss. Abraham O. 
1942 

Allen, Robert J. Angelakos, Diogenes J. Asmuth, Ensign James E, Assad, Victor J, ... Aubrey. Lawrence J. Baader, Ensign William G. Bagan. Ensign Mervin F. Barr, Lt Joseph J. Bergan, Joseph A. Bergen, John W, _ Berko. Lawrence Bcrmingham, John C. Borda, John N. __ Brehl. Bernard F. Brown, Roger W. Buenger, Edward A. Burby, Ensign Leo J. Burkhart, James A. Busse, John E. , Byrne, Matthew A. 
(Deceased) Cahill. Jones F. : Canale, Daniel D. „ Carr, Michael J. Casey, Donald P. Caston, Ralph H, Cavalero, Howard G, Clapham, Charles F. Clifford, L t John H. Cody. Thomas P. Concannon. Francis J. 
 J. 
3.00 5.00 26.60 5.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 3.46 5.00 5.00 5.00 
10.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 
25.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 3.00 
10.00 2.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 
10.00 5.00 
$ 6.915.45 
$ 1.00 3.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 1.00 2.50 2.00 1.00 
1.00 
10.00 25.00 10.00 5.00 
S.OO 
25.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 
5.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 

Mangan. William E. Marshall, Ensign Quentin J. Marshall. William A. Masterson, Ensign Leonard J. Matlavish. Richard T. McCabc, John F. McDonnell. Horace J. McGinley, Donald F. McGuire. Cclman L. McHugh, Rich.nrd E. McKay Bernard C. HcKee. Robert J. McKenna, Coe A. McLoone. Pf c Edward A. McNulty, James J. Mcchan, Cpl. Francis J. . Meier, William E. Metzgar. Ensign Francis E. Meyer, Lt. John P. Miller. Walter C. Minder, Walter J. Mjngcs, William C. Monahan, Edward J. Morris, John F. Morrison, Thomas A. Morrow, AVilliam F. Moulder, Peter V. Murphy, Paul V. Murphy, Richard C. Murray. Harry L. Murray. Ensign Roy E. Nash, Thomas D. Nelson, Charles F. Nilles, HerVicrt G.  3.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 12.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 o.OO 1.00 o.OO 5.00 5.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 6.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 27.00  Rourke. Thomas R. .. Ruppe, Richard V. Scanlon. William E. -Scherer, John A. Schroer, Gerhard J. _ Sellers. Francis M. „ SeufEert. Joseph A. _ Sheedy, John A. Shields, Joseph M. Simon. Lt. Ralph H. Sobek. George E. Sommers, Armiger H. Stewart, Peter W. Storek, Henry E. Sullivan, Edward J. Sullivan, Miss Nora R. Tafel. Paul J. Timmel, Robert F. Tracey, James H. Treacy, John E. Turgeon, Leo V. Uhl. George A. Uhl, Robert C. Veit, Pvt. Francis A., Jr.. Wack, Paul E. Walsh, Thomas A Walters, Cpl. Julian R. . Westenberger. George L. Whalen, Richard T. Woicik, Bernard P. Wolfe. Leonard H. Wright, Robert K Zimmer, Pvt. Harold E. .  3.00 6.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 6.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.50 2.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 1.00 "5.00 2.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 1.00 1.00  Griffin, Pv t John J. _ Haley, Pv t Frands J. , Haninger. George A Harrigan, John L. Hays, George O. Heltzel, Donald T. Holwell, Ensign Daniel E. . Hunt John D. Hunter, Oliver H. Jacob, Joseph E. Kane. Ensign Charles H. Kempf, Kenneth B. Kleibacker, Charles J. Kralovec, Charles V. Kurtz, Louis F. Lambert. Walter C. Leahy. John K. LeMense, Robert D. Leonard, Pv t Paul T. Linck. Leo L. Maher, James J. Maher, Thomas D. Maloney, John G. Martel. Roland J. McCormick. Richard D. McGowan. Blair McKim. Edward D. McManus, Pvt. Raymond J. „ Millett Robert M. ^ Moritz. Peter F. Muench. Pfc. Albert J. Murphy. Robert C. Murrin. Pvt. William Z. Nenno, Robert P.  25.00 2.00 6.00 50.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 I.OO 5.00 2.00 1.00 6.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 2.00 6.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 10.00 5.00 1.00 25.00 7.00 1.00  1946 Granfietd, William J., Jr. Whitaker, Charles C $ 325.00 SUBSCRIBERS Berra, Joseph _» 2.00 Buckley, T. F. _ 2.00 Boechner. Cecelia B. _ _ 10.00 Carlin, Hiss Dora — _ 2.00 Cartier, Chas. K _ 25.00 Conaty, John .. _ 2.0O Connolly. E. F. _ 2S.0O Coppinger, L. B. _ 10.00 Corona, Jose C _ 25.00 Doyle, Mrs. Peter A. ­_ 10.00 Duncan, John _ 25.00 Evans, Emmett _ 3.00 Foley, J. J. _ 6.00 Follen. Mrs. Thomas _ . 1.00 Gallan, Richard J. _ 2.00 Gemon. Pv t Lawrence J. 27ao Guthrie, John • 10.00 Hamilton, L. H. 833.33 Hayes. Bryan 2.00 Hickey. Th<Hnas L. 500.00 Irene. Sister Mary, RSM __ 2.00 King, Edward H. _ 10.00 Leroux. George J. __ 5.00 IJoyd. Francis W. __ 175.00 NJ). Club of Cleveland. O. (Scholarship Fund) 1.000.00 NJ>. au b of Rhode Island &  
Nolan, Ensign John H.  .  10.00  889.00  Norris. Joseph  T.  10.00  S.  G.  Massachusetts  —  200.00  
O'Connell, Quentin J. 0*Donohoe, Lt. James E. 0*Dowd, Ensign Francis E. O'Kane, Edward F. O'Laughlin, Lt. James P. Olson. William R. O'Neal, Ensign James J. — Owens, Richard Kenneth Patterson, Charles J. Paulmann. Cpl. Frederick H. Payne. Frederick. J. Peters, John T. Pitkin. Sgt. Carroll P. Piatt, William R. Pollnow, Ensign Francis J. Pope, Ensign Arthur W. Raaf, Ensign Robert H. Rabett, Ensign Gerald J. Regan, William O. Reichenstein, Jacob M. Reidy, Edward P. Rice, James J. . Richards, Floyd F. Rinella, Anthony A. _ Rock, Cpl. Martin J.  11.00 101.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 10.00 3.00 2.00 1.50 2.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 10.00 2.00  1943 Atkins, Thomas L. . 2.00 Baker, Robert O. _ 6.00 Behr, John L. 3.00 Bonyai, Pvt. William J. 5.00 Borghi, Louis J. 2.50 Brooks. Ensign Robert E. 4.00 Browning, Robert F. 1.00 Bums, Pvt. Edward Kilroe , 1.00 Byrne, James J. 2.00 Carey, William J. 2.00 Carver, Pfc. Robert B. 3.00 Champley, Ensign Joseph P. 5.00 Christman, Pvt. Frederick G. 15.00 Coco, Carl S. 15.00 Corrigan, Pfc. Robert 10.00 Edwards, Arthur M. 10.00 Feeney. Gerald F. . 1.00 Fitch. Ensign Gail D 5.00 Fretague, William J. — 5.00 Frye. John W. 2.00 Gainer, Ensign Jerome D. — 1.00 Gilligan, John J. 100.00  O'Connell, Richard E. O'Malley, John D. Perr^. Thomas W. Poinsatte. Pvt. James A. — Reasan, Pv t Edward A. Reale, Robert I . Reynolds, Joseph W. Roney, Edward C. Rummel, Melville S. Sullivan, Leigh R. Terheyden. William A. Terry, John H. „— Tracey. John F. Tracy. Pv t Joseph A. : Villarosa, Nichol-^s J. Wahl, John J.. Jr. Walsh, John N. Webber. Anthony G. ;1944 Anonymous  1.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 S.00 S.0O 1.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 S.OO • 2.00 1.00 50.00  496.50 2.00  McCarthy. Joseph P. 25.00 McHenryV Joseph 2.00 McKinney. Miss Marie E. — 5.00 N. D. Ciub of Minnesota — 150.00 Mulcrone. Joseph R. 2.00 Anonymous — . 500.00 O'BrieD, John J. 1iooo.oo Owen. Thomas F. 25.00 Pavey, Hon. Jesse I. —. 250.00 Rapp, William A. 2.00 Redden, Earl J. 50.00 Reilly. R t Rev. Mssr. Edm. J. 25.00 Reitz. John M. 12.50 Ricker. Alfred H. 5.00 Roach. William G. 12S.00 Rose, James L. — 5.00 Schedit Edward 25.00 Schmitt Herman A. 25.00 N. D. du b of Scranton. Pa. 250.00 Shanley, Rev. Bernard E. — 2.00 Anonymous ~ 100.00 Staunton, Henry C. 50.00 Terry, Charles D. 102.00 Tracy, Gerald B. 10.00 Unknown of Qeveland, O.­2.00  
Rossi, Ugo D.  Girard, Ensign James A.  5.00  Vanderhoff,  H.  O.  100.00  
Gibbons, Pvt. Joseph W.  5.00  
» 5.762.93  
•  ­  • »  

ANOTHER FOUHTH OF JULY courtesy, and the nicest sense of personal I do not fear the future. I have great honor. . . These are the general quali­hope for it—hope for the United States 
(Continued from page 8) 

fications, and the nearer the officer and the civilization given to it by the Navy, the Marines, and Notre Dame approaches the full possession of tiiem Founding Fathers—because I believe in have something else in common that the more likely he will be to serve his youth. Youth is challenged today as it concerns us immediately: that is, to country well and win fame and honor has never been challenged before, and it make you good citizens and good (rSicers. for himself". is responding magnificently. With you, When each of us has done his part in I believe that we will reum to the spark­this task, John Paul Jones' words, writ­Today you begin a new chapter in ling fonntainhead of firm faith ana ten of the ideal naval officer, may be your lives. Accept your responsibility fixed truth from which has flowed all said of you: "It is by no means enough with renewed faith and courage. Make our greatness in the past. God willing that an officer of the navy should be a each day count as you take your assign­you may well lead the way, as today 
capable mariner. He must be that of ment in this noble crusade for the God-the strains of the Victory March are course, but also a great deal more. He g^iven rights of man. The nation relies blended with those of Anchors Awdgb should be as well, a gentleman of liberal on you and countless millions like yon, and The Halls of Montezuma. Onward education, refined manners, punctilious and I know you will not fail. With yon. to victory! 
AlutfuU ReaxteM 6o4fUfie4it an — 
NOTRE DAME CENTENARY PUBLICATIONS ($5 the set) 
NOTRE DAME ­ONE HUNDRED YEARS 
By ARTHUR I. HOPE. C. S. C. 
What the Alumni say: 

CLASS OF 1SS3, DR. ALBERT ZAIIM : "I plunged into the middle of the history, and have been sailing both ways, attracted by_ the host of familiar characters. Its perusal is like reHvinK the old times from 1878 to 1S93." 
CLASS OF 1S97, REV. Jonx MACNAMAR.\: "I siartod to read the history, and I couldn't write until I had finished the book . . . I think you have done a very exceptional piece of work and one that should be of absorbing interest to everyone who has ever attended Notre Dame." 
CLASS OF 1912. Joiix P. MURPHY: "I have just finished read-ins Father Hope's stoo' of Notre Dame .. . It appealed to me particularly because it was quite a frank appraisal of the men at the University. He made Father Sorin and his successors more beloved and appreciated beirause he painted theni as real men en­dowed with virtues and weaknesses." 
CLASS OF 1920. THOMAS H . BEACOM, JR. : "Your book was 
•waitanff for me at home last night and interfered with my sleep. I^intended to ijlance through it for a few minutes but became so engrossed in its pages that it was w^ell after midnight before I put it down. You have done an extremely interesting and competent job." 
CLASS OF 1938, REDMAN DUCCAX: "I feel indebted to you fop your book on Notre Dame. It has been heart-warming to stroll around the lake once more, to visit the grotto at sun-set, to listen to Father Gene's stories in song, to hear Father Farley's *Hi ya, boy!' " 
COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L O'DONNELL 
Edited by CHARLES M. CAREY. C, S. C. 
What members of the faculty say: 
**The best religious poet of America . . . The most remarkable realization in American poetry of a completely Catholic attitude toward life."—PKOF. FRAXQS J. O'MALLEY. 
**I can't think of a book that would be more appropriate or more valuable at this time . . . Father O'Donncll was a great president of the University of Notre Dame, and also a real poet."—PROP. JOHN T. FREDERICK. 
What other critics say: 
"We place Father O'Donncll unhesitatingly in the company of Francis Thompson, Alice Meynell and Lionel Johnson."—i'octry, a Magazine of Verse. 
"Not because of her massed buildings or equipment is a Uni­versity great — but because of her men and her ideas .. . These poems should forever keep alive the memory of Father O'Donncll among Notre Dame men." — Commonweal. 
"If the finest things of the spirit thrill you. Father O'DonnelPs poetry will augment your delight. Purchase the book for yourself,and then place its title foremost on your list when about to shop for graduation, birthday or fcastday gifts."—The Cowl; A Ca­jiuchin Review. 
"WTiat Fra Angelico did with paint and canvas. Father O'Don­ncll docs with words."—Thought. 
"He has established himself as the leading Catholic poet of our country."—Catholic Book Club Ncics Letter. 
ORDER BLANK 

THE UNIVERSITY PRESS. Notre Dame, Indiana. Please send the CENTENARY PUBLICATIONS SET, listed above, at the special Alumni rate of S5 which I inclose. 
Name.. Address^ City 








