The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 


Another Chapter 
ANOTHER issue of the Notre Dame ALUMNUS brings still another chapter in the life of a growing uni­versity. This time the news con­cerns the move towards full co­education between Notre Dame and St. Mary's . . . the graduation of another Notre Dame class, the '69ers, itself a commentary on the tenor of this institution .. . the University's view of ROTC on the Notre Dame campus .. . the $1 million gift by Gulf and Western, a demonstration of that corporation's "commitment to higher education" .. . the estab­lishment of "The Robert F. Ken­nedy Institute for Social Action," a sort of clearinghouse to mobilize student as well as faculty and administration resources to meet the needs of impoverished people . . . and, of course, a report on this year's Blue and Gold game, a glimpse 
of what Irish fans might expect this fall. 
This issue of the ALUMNUS also marks a change in the magazine's staff. Each year graduation takes its toll in this office. This June we've lost senior Mike McCauIey, one of three student writers on the com­bined ALUMNUS-INSIGHT: NOTRE DAME magazines staff. Anyone who has followed us in the last two years knows Mike's contributions have been frequent and valuable. In addi­tion to writing the regular student column, he also handled numerous news and feature stories. We even de­signed him into the December, 1967, ALUMNUS cover on "Student Power." As a matter of fact, we liked the guy so much that we kept him on his beat until graduation day. His last assignment was his part in the profile on the Class of '69 which begins on page 37. But Mike was more than "our man." He was called upon by 
everyone from the president of the 
University to his roommate to do 

something for or about Notre Dame. 
And not once did he fail in his 
assignments. 

A government major, the ol' redhead was a member of the Univer­sity's Student Life Council and president of Farley Hall. Next for Mike is a two-year tour in Ceylon with the Peace Corps. He then plans to earn a degree in public ad­ministration or law. Whatever his course, Mike will do well. In our book—and, admittedly we are biased—he's number one. If you ever meet him, you'll agree too. To him goes our sincere appreciation for a job well done. 
Mike's departure signals the pro­motion of our other two students. Bill Mitchell, a junior-to-be theology major who's been with us for two years, will be the new custodian of the ALUMNUS student column and will continue his fine work on feature shories for both magazines. Senior-to­be John MeDermott, our "walk on" this year who was looking for work and writing and who found lots of both, will be our man in student af­fairs. His job will be to stay on top of the Campus scene particularly when and where it involves students. 
We hope to stay on top of the entire Notre Dame scene for you again next year because the chances are good that we could preface each new issue as we did this one: "Another Notre Dame ALUMNUS . . . still another chapter in the life of a growing university." 
V«L47 
James D. Cooney EXECUTIVE SECKETAKV 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
John P. Thurin '59 
ENTOK 
Tom Sullivan '66 
MANACINC EDITOR 
Meg Zweis 
ASSISTANT EDITOR Bai Mitchell "71 Mike McCa-jIcy '69 John MeDermott '70 Jeanninc Doty 
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
M. Bruce Harlan '49 CHIEF PHOTOGRAPHER 
ALUMNI ASSOaATION OFFICERS 
Richard A. Rosenthal '54 
HONORARY PRESIDENT 
Leonard H. Skoslund '38 
t^tESIDENT 
Edward G. Cannvcll '24 
ViCE-BlESIDENT 
Edward B. Fitzpatrick Jr '54 
ViCE-RlESIDENT 
John J. Reidy '27 
ViCE-ftlES IDENT 
James D. Cooney '59 ExEcum'E SECRETARY 
DIRECTORS TO 1970 
Edwaid G. Cantwcll '24 (PuBuc RELATIONS AND DEVELOPME-NT) 700 Binns Blvd., Columbus, Ohio 43204 
Edward B. Fitzpatrick Jr '54 (STUDENT AF­FAIRS) 5 The Maples, Roslyn Estates, NY 11576 
Richard A. Rosenthal '54, P.O. Box 200, South Bend, Ind. 46616 
John J. Reidy '27 (ACADEMIC .\FFAIRS) 11850 Edgewater Dr., l.akcwood, Ohio 44107 
Leonard H . Skoghmd '38 (ATHLETIC, SENATE RELATIONS) 426 Dover Ave., LaGrange F^ik, lU. 60525 
DIRECTORS TO 1971 
W. Jerome Kane '38, P.O. Box 3707, Seattle, Wash. 98124 Walter M. Langford '30, 1315 Otsego St., South Bend, Ind. 46617 Donald F. O'Brien '42, 1113 Rocky River Rd., Hoouston, Texas 77002 
Francis J. Wilson '28, 6105 Howe St., Fittsbuigh, Pa. 15219 
DIRECTORS TO 1972 
Robert A. Erkins '47, P.O. Box 546, Buhl, Id. John T. Iklassman '56, 3917 Broadway, Kansas Caty, Mo. Frank L. McGinn '52, 900 Building, Porapano Beach, Fla. Robert L. McGoIdrick '56, 15 Drury Lane, West Hartford, Conn. Leanaid H. Tose '37, 64 W. 4th St., Bridge­port, Pa. 
1968 Notre Dame ALUUNUS, University of 
. Notre Dame, all rights reserved. Reproduction in whole, or in part without written permis­sion b prohiibited. 
The Notre Dame ALUUNUS is published seven times .a year by the University of Notre 
Dame,, Second-class postage paid at Notre 

McCauhy Mitchell MeDermott Dame, IN. 46556. 
UNIVERSITY 

Two good neighbors for a century and a quarter have decided to get serious. 


Steps Toward CoeducaiMon 
THE presidents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College announced May 9 a program which will begin initial steps toward co­education between the two neighbor­ing schools. Long an issue under intensive study and examination, the cooperative coeducational plan was made public by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, President of Notre Dame, and Msgr. John J. McGrath, President of St. Mary's. Both presidents appointed Rev. Charles E. Sheedy CSC, former Arts and Letters Dean at Notre Dame and currently Dean of the Institute for Advanced Theological Studies, to be in charge of both the theoretical and operational details of the new program. 
The new program is not an actual, legal merger of the two institutions but is designed to lead toward one. Father Sheedy personally visualizes the two schools ultimately as being "virtually unrecognizable as separate." He pointed out that the current plan does not commit either school to an eventual merger and that it does not rule out the possibility that Notre Dame may eventually seek another way to go coeducational. 
The mechanics of the newly announced proposal appear in several phases. The immediate phase will involve coeducational classes for 245 freshman students from each institu­tion in four Arts and Letters courses beginning next September. Also next year, the existing "Co-Exchange" program which involves over 700 ND-SMC students will be doubled or tripled^-enabling more students to cross institutional lines in selecting and taking courses. 
The second phase of the co­educational proposal will come in the fall of 1971 when both institutions will consolidate registration, class 
schedules, academic calendars and 
admissions. In order to develop a 

more balanced ratio between the number of male and female students, St. Mary's has initiated plans to double its freshman class enrollment to 500 students, thus producing a 
1:3 ratio to Notre Dame's freshman enrollment of 1500, v^hich will be maintained at its present level. 
Father Sheedy further clarified the technicalities of the transitional program by stating that students would still receive separate diploma: from their respective schools. "However, if a woman becomes totally involved at Notre Dame in her academic program," Father Sheedy added, "it would be logical for her degree to come from Notre Dame rather than from St. Mary's." As far as the undergraduate coeducational program is projected at Notre Dame-St. Mary's, Father Sheedy points 
Pretty, smiling faces will bring a neiv dimension to the Notre 
to the eventual goal as being some­thing similar to the Harvard-Radcliffe model. 
In the area of faculty appointments and control. Father Sheedy explained that the two colleges will be on a joint approval basis "as quickly as possible." He said that control will be placed where it can best be exercised, pointing out the example that St. Mary's would probably have control of the elementarj' and secondary education areas since that department is so strong across the road. 
Explaining the second phase of the plan, Father Sheedy pointed out that the expansion of the "Co-Ex" program will enable more students to take advantage of the existing opportunity to take courses at the other school if the courses they desire are not offered at their own school. If the program is tripled as Father Sheedy predicts, there could be a total of 2000 ND-SMC undergradu­ates involved in the "Co-Ex" program by the spring of 1970. The four initial liberal arts courses presented to the freshmen in Phase I next fall will be taught in sections at both campuses and will include seminars on the humanities, and courses in world civilization, political science or government, and introductory sociology. 
The historic announcement of May 9 was the immediate result of a yearlong study conducted by a coordinating committee headed by Rev. John E. Walsh, CSC, Vice-president for Academic Affairs at Notre Dame, and Dr. Jack Detzler, Executive Vice-president of St. Mary's. However, the idea of co­education at Notre Dame is by no means a new one. The possibility has been discussed for many years, and 
Dame community. 

Notre Dame has looked beyond 
St. Mary's in its efforts to attract more 
female students into the Notre Dame 
community. 

The idea of going Co-ed has been totally accepted in principle by ad­ministrators and trustees of both St. Mary's and Notre Dame. While other proposals and alternatives were open to Notre Dame, the logic of developing the two colleges together because of their close physical prox­imity and historical connections appears to have eventually swayed the argument. 
The reaction among the faculty at both Notre Dame and St. Mary's has been generally favorable con­cerning the announcement for closer interaction between the two schools. Although there are many "vested interests" at stake within faculty circles, many teachers have voiced their positive opinions toward the 
Rev. Charles Sheedy CSC 

program. Most teachers expressed the desire for a more normal academic setting and the contribution which the strong departments at both schools could make to the academic growth of the students. 
Reaction at Notre Dame among the students has ranged from the strong traditionalist vieWj contending that coeducation will bring an unwanted intrusion into the heretofore sacred male atmosphere at Notre Dame, to the liberal outlook that coeducation will solve the peculiar social malaise that has stunted many students' social and academic maturation at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
Whatever the point of view, the change to coeducation is one which many people at Notre Dame and St. Mary's felt was both natural and inevitable. 
TMH Proposal 
REV . Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, President of the University of Notre Dame, in a commencement address at St. Louis University May 31, outlined a four-point national program to respond to the concerns of youth. With the involvement of young people in the life of the nation. Father Hesburgh said he "could fore­see a greatly needed reordering of our national and international priorities, a new moral concern for the quality of life in our country." 
The main elements of his proposed program include 1) A declaration by Congress and the President that would make available education beyond high school for young people who wanted it. As estimated by the Carnegie Commission on the Future of Higher Education, the total federal cost would be only one-seventh of the federal tax share of the annual increase in the nation's gross national product; 2) A mini­mum year of national service for anyone educated by any form of federal assistance, allowing the student to pick the time, place and con­dition of his service to others, here or abroad; 3) The option of substi­tuting this year of national service, with equal time requirements, for the obligation of military service; and 
4) The granting of the vote at age IS. "Recent political history has taught us that young people, even without the vote, can enliven political campaigns and sharpen the substan­tive issues involved," Hesburgh commented. "If they had the vote as well, then their valid questions would have to be answered by the candidates." 
Hesburgh admitted that his program was not a panacea for all the malaise that America and its colleges and universities suffer today, but stated that "it does provide new and exciting options that might well turn our present crisis around and put the emphasis on opportunity rather than repression, on constructive rather than destructive initiatives, on real answers rather than im­provised palliatives." 
BRiEFS 

Suwnwner Camp 

Registration is still open for Notre Dame's first Summer Sports Camp, featuring sports instruction by ND coaches. The three remaining two-week sessions are from June 21­July 5, July 7-19 and July 21­August 2. Boys from 8 to 16 years of age are eligible as are girls who wish to enroll in a figure and free­style skating school. Further informa­tion is available by writing D. J. Napolitano, at the Athletic-Convoca­tion Center, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Admissions 

Dr. Peter P. Grande, director of the ofiice of institutional studies, will assume the position of director of admissions at the University, July 1. Grande succeeds Bro. Raphael Wilson CSC who has headed ND's admissions program since September, 1965. Grande holds master's and doctor's degrees in educational psychology and guidance from ND and as a member of the department of education faculty taught in the area of counseling, testing and educational research between 1955 and 1965. 

SEiC Statement 

The University's tripartite Student Life Council adopted a statement on demonstrations May 5, which up­held, but tempered with an emphasis on the necessity of restraint, the right of the administration "to con­front violence with remedial force." The committee which drafted the report was set up last December by the SLC following a November sit-in which prevented interviews by a CIA campus recruiter. 

3Mediecat Grant 

The Samuel H. Kress Foundation has awarded $35,000 to the Medieval Institute of the University of Notre Dame for the continuation of its microfilm and photographic project at the Ambrosiana Library in Milan. This project, under the direction of Professor A. L. Gabriel of the Medieval Institute, is a continuation of the program which the Kress Foundation inaugurated with Professor Gabriel in 1965. 
Announce New 


University 
Tw o years ago important changes took place in Notre Dame"s university structure which have had resounding effects on the total University com­munity and its attitude. ND witnessed the passing of its highest governance from the hands of clerics into those of laymen. The Academic Council, already then an organized and operating body, was revitalized and now includes more faculty than administration. The Faculty Senate was established for faculty only and has justified its existence in many ways. And one year ago the Alumni Senate and Student Life Council took form—now important facts of life in the University. 
Each of these bodies was created in the recent past to give the various members of the University commu­nity — trustees, faculty, administra­tion, alumni and students — a great­er participation in the ongoing life of the University. Each has been effective in its own right, but none of these are comprised of the total membership. Given the restricted competence of the various bodies, none should. But the students, as well as Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, President of the University, see a kind of unifying influence needed in order to create an overall com­munity of being and expression and influence on the part of the total community. 
In response to this need Father Hesburgh has announced the creation of an All University Forum. As a sounding board ior all University factions, the seventh ND functioning body will "address itself to those all-embracing topics that are the con­cern of the total community— such as the aims and objectives of the University; its internal priori­ties of interest, its stance vis-a-vis the total society in which it lives, and the problems of that society; its life style; the internal and external 

Forum 
problems it faces to sur\'ive and prosper — and many other similar questions. While each of these ques­tions," Father Hesburgh commented, "has a primary focus that may be decided by one or several of our existing legislative or advisory bodies, these divisions, I believe, would be better made if they were preceded by a discussion of the total commu­nity, addressing itself to the totali­ty of concern." 
Formation of the Forum was approved in principle by Notre Dame's trustees at their May 9 meeting on Campus. The Forum will meet in public session four times during the academic year. As pro­posed it will include the Chairman of the Board of Trustees, the President of the University, the Chairman of the Faculty Senate, the National President of the Alumni Association, the President of the Student Body and three democratically elected members of the five constituencies. 
Although the All-University Forum will not operate as a decision-making body, its value will lie principally in allowing an open airing of all opinions concerning crucial issues and an exchange of ideas and arguments among its members. 
"It may or may not work," Father Hesburgh said, "but I can think of no better mechanism to serve our ultimate needs for better community and communication . . . Trustees are granted their role by law and charter; the faculty earn theirs by years of study and experience; administration ser\'es the total community and should be dismissed if they do so incom­petently; alumni earn their place by their ser\'ice, dedication, and gener­osity to the University; and students are, temporarily, while students, the reasons for the total endeavor and should be able to add their insights regarding the efficacy of what all the rest of us propose to be doing." 
TMH flanked by Dr. O. C. 
NB 
O NE of the largest corporate gifts in the history of American higher education, $1 million, was awarded to Notre Dame by Gulf and Western Industries, Inc., New York, NY. The presentation was made by 
Charles G. Bluhdorn, chairman and chief executive officer of G and W, to Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, Notre Dame President, at a New York luncheon May 19. 
Bluhdorn stated that the million-dollar gift to ND is a demonstration of G and W's belief that now is not the time for business to withdraw financial support of America's colleges and universities, but rather that it is a time for business to become more committed to helping higher education. 
:v< r'T^-^roffV/f^ri 
Carinichael of the Associates (left) and Charles Bluhdorn of Gulf and Western. 


Given $1 
The capital gift was made by G and \V at the "enthusiastic recom­mendation" of one of their major components, The Associates Investment Company of South Bend. Dr. O. C. Carmichacl Jr., a Notre Dame trustee and national chairman of the University's $52-million SUMMA Program, is chairman of Associates" board of directors. Carinichael reported that the SUMMA Program has generatcc $42.7 million in gifts and commit­ments since September, 1967. Of this overall figure, about 800 corporate gifts account for $4.5 million. 
G and W presented the gift in unre­stricted form to Notre Dame, "confident in the University, in its trustees and in Father Hesburgh that 

Million 
the funds will be used wisely and well. American business," Bluhdorn explained, "must become more involved in education. But, by in­volvement I do not mean meddling or trying to tell educators and students how to run their affairs. On the other hand, corporations have done too little to help build two-way com­munications between students and 
business." 
In accepting the G and \V grant Father Hesburgh said that it is "the largest unrestricted corporate grant ever received by Notre Dame. It should be a shining example for companies throughout the land to aid schools, colleges and universities, many of which are experiencing a deepening financial crisis." 

JVeic Institute 
i% GROUP of Notre Dame students has initiated establishment of a student-controlled institute for social action named after the late Senator Robert F. Kennedy. The Institute will become the University center for coordinating, directing and expanding all Social Action programs. It is designed to provide this oppor­tunity for students, faculty and administration alike. And since the projects will combine classroom knowledge and practical experience, in many cases academic credit will be given. 
Junior John Mroz, chairman of the Steering Committee, pointed out that the policy making body within the Institute will be a Board of Fellows, consisting of six student members, two faculty members and two administration fellows, as well as two fellows from outside the University community. Funds will be provided by a number of sources including Notre Dame, private foundations and organizations interested in particular projects. 
The first undertaking of the Institute will begin this summer with a community study of Fabens, Texas, a southwestern border town of some 4,000 people, SO percent of whom are Spanish speaking laborers. A team of three undergraduates, three graduate students and two professors will carry out extensive research into the history of the town which is currently suffering a rapid economic and social decline. 
John Mroz 

~»-'a»7.«w!»ci^»p«»i»».aBigxiTC«w^n.-^>.-i»»'»a.---vr«».i^«»3=r-?.^^ 
The Class of 1969 receives its charge at commencement exercises in the ACC arena. 


An End 
J^OTRE DAME awarded a record 1,774 degrees in its 124th commence­ment exercises in the Athletic and Convocation Center June 1. More than 11,500 people witnessed the rites in the University's new all-pur­pose edifice as a violent thunder­storm pummeled the South Bend area. The event had been scheduled to be held indoors for the first time in more than 15 years. 
A total of 1,470 undergraduate degrees, 225 graduate degrees and 79 law degrees were conferred by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, University President. The Bacca­laureate Mass was held earlier the same day in the ACC arena with George Cardinal Flahiff, archbishop of Winnipeg, Canada, giving the sermon. 
Honorary degrees were awarded to 12 men at the commencement ceremonies. Receiving doctor of laws degrees from the University were Congressman John Brademas of Indiana's Third District, chairman of 

And A Beginning 
the House select subcommittee on education; Dr. Thomas P. Carney, senior vice president for research and development at G. D. Searle and Company, Chicago, and an ND trustee; Msgr. Luc P. Gillon, admin­istrator general of Lovanium Uni­versity in Kinshasa, the Congo; Sol 
W. Linowitz, recently resigned American ambassador to the Or­ganization of American States; Sen. Edmund S. Muskie of Maine, 1968 Democratic vice presidential candidate. 
Dr. Nathan M. Mewmark, head of the department of civil engineering at the University of Illinois; Dr. Stephen C. O'Connell, president of the University of Florida; George P. Shultz, U.S. Secretary of Labor; Judge Luther M. Swygert of the 
U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit in Chicago; commencement speaker Daniel P. Moynihan, the Nixon administration's urban affairs advisor and a former director of the Joint Center for Urban Studies of Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; and Cardinal Flahiff. Receiving a doctor of science degree was Dr. Henry Eyring, distinguished professor of chemistry at the University of Utah. 
Moynihan told the Class of 1969 that "intellectual freedom in the American University has now been seriously diminished because "both the extreme right and the extreme left have loosed upon the world a moral fury that has wrought as much evil, in contrast to the brutality of the past, as mankind has ever known." 
He argued that the stability of a democracy depends on citizens distinguishing between what govern­ment can and cannot do. "To demand what can be done is alto­gether in order . . . but to seek that which cannot be provided, especially to do so with the passionate but misinformed conviction that it can be, is to create the conditions of frustration and ruin." 

ROTC OK'^d 
M N A major reaffirmation of academic 
policy, Notre Dame's Academic 
Council voted overwhelmingly to 
retain the University's affiliation with 
the Armed Forces' ROTC program 
at a meeting in late May. 
The Council, a faculty-administra­
tion committee which determines 
general academic policies and regula­
tions at the University, passed 
resolutions which: 
—Left the determination of 
academic credit for ROTC courses 
in the hands of the deans of Notre 
Dame's colleges, as is now the case 
with all other academic courses; 
—^Asked that the military depart­ments move "with all possible speed" toward the substitution, wherever feasible, of other University courses for their own departmental courses: 
—Stressed the necessity of prior approval by appropriate University academic authorities of appointments involving military teaching personnel at the University: 
—^Interpreted the faculty manual to mean that military teaching personnel have "non-tenurable" status: 
—^Urged responsible military and governmental officials to develop procedurss for separation from ROTC units for students, without military or academic penalty: 
—Recommended that the Univer­sity re-examine its contractual obliga­tions with the Department of Defense with the purpose of transferring to summer camps and cruises those aspects of military training appro­priate to military installations. 
The special meeting climaxed recent discussion about the academic merits of ROTC. 
Still compatible. 
COLUMN 



The CSC^s and Notre Dawne 
by Richard W. Conklh Asst. Director, Public Inhrmation 

T HE Holy Cross Fathers are alive 
and well at Notre Dame .. . 
but thank you for asking. 
At the time of the change-over to lay governance at the University a little over two years ago. Father Hes-burgh wrote a letter to Notre Dame's far-flung constituency. About five pages of this 19-page missive were devoted to answering publicly a question which had been asked privately by some members of the Congregation of Holy Cross: Where does the order fit into a lay-controlled university? 
At the time. Father Hesburgh enumerated some ways in which he thought the order could contribute, and it might be interesting to comment on some of these with the vantage point of two years of observation. 
Theology and Philosophy. It is an exaggeration to say that much of the action in today's Notre Dame is found in the class­rooms of such priest-scholars as the Rev. James T. Burtchaell, chairman of the department of theology; the Rev. John S. Dunne, professor of theology; and the Rev. David B. Bur­rell, assistant professor of philosophy. Father Burtchaell is a utility inflelder in Academe, performing with sen­sitivity and intellectual alacrity in hall life, classroom dialog, liturgical experimentation, peer-group disputa­tion, and Student Life Council mediation. John Dunne was picked as one of the nation's best university teachers by the Danforth Foundation, 
and a New York Times photographer who spent some time in his class­room delivered the highest compli­ment: "Father Dunne," he said, "was so good I could not concentrate on taking pictures." Dave Burrell, whose analytic training in philosophy puts him in a minority among Catholic philosophers, much less among priest-philosopheis, has a wide smile and psychological antennae which reverberate at the slightest sign of human need. These are three priests—^and there are others less well-known—^who make a palpable difterence on campus. 
If one combines the 1968-69 Notre Dame catalog list of faculty with recent promotions, the academic Holy Cross head count reads as follows: IS full professors, 20 associate professors; 22 assistant professors; three instructors, one director and one assistant dean without departmental assignment; five retired teachers in all ranks; and three department heads. While the order has generally favored Notre Dame with its best people, the competition for academic appointment has stiffened, and perhaps even fewer Holy Cross priests will be found on the faculty in the future, primarily in the College of Arts and Letters. The absence of preferential treatment has its advantages, however. "We are accepted now," testifies one Holy Cross academician. "There is virtually none of the anticlerical bitching one heard in the '50s." 
Pastoral influence. One frank member of the order comments, "The one monopoly we have at Notre Dame — pastoral counseling — happens to be the very area in which we have been ill-trained." The truth of the matter is that those mem­bers of the order who teach English or art are generally better pre­pared than those tossed into the restless and challenging atmosphere of contemporary residence hall life. 
How well they are able to cope with the admittedly complex problems in this area might well depend on how willing the order is to provide them with the necessary postgraduate pastoral training. Generally, one asks for a greater appreciation for those men who toil unnoticed as yeast in student community life; their influence is often as important as that of the mandarins in the classroom. 

New PR&D Appointments 
AMAJOR appointments, to become 
effective July 1, have been announced 
in the Public Relations and Develop­
ment Office of the University 

by James W. Frick, Vice President 
for Public Relations and 
Development. 

James E. Murphy, who has served as Director of Public Information at Notre Dame since 1952, will assume the newly created position of Assistant Vice President for Public Relations and Development. He will act as Frick's deputy in supervising Univer­sity programs, operations and personnel concerned with public relations, development, alumni affairs and related fields. 
Appointed to the new post of Director of Development is Frank G. Kelly, assistant to the vice president since 1966. 
Succeeding Murphy as Director of Public Information will be Richard 
W. Conklin, who served as Assistant Director since 1967. 
James V. Gibbons, Assistant Director of Public Relations since 1963, has been named to the new position of Director of Special Projects. 
John W. Crowe, New York, NY; David Shanahan, Chicago; James Kinnane, Los Angeles and Brian Regan on the ND campus have been assigned new titles of Regional Directors of Development. 
Bruce Harlan, Chief University Photographer since 1949, has been given the new title of Director of Photography. 
Kelly Gibbons 

Ara thinks hard while his Irish do battle. 



Fait Looks Good 
w iTH season number 81 right around the comer for the Fighting Irish the old familiar tremor begins and there is great wonder and excitement as to what the Fall will bring — in the line of football scores, that is. 
Head Coach Ara Parseghian and his staff did their level best to get some advance notice during late April and early May and, as usual, they've come up with an interesting array of talent that should provide for some exciting Saturday after­noons come next September. 
After three weeks of Spring practice in which the holes left by 19 graduating seniors—13 of whom were offensive specialists—^were filled, the Blue defeated the Gold handily 41-3 in a muddy battle on May 10. The annual game, which concludes the Spring drills, saw the first and second team Blues completely dominate the reserve units in grinding out a solid victory. It became apparent that with the Baby Bombers departed the Irish will most likely resort to a possession offense similar to the one utilized by the 1965 team. 
Junior-to-be quarterback Joe Theismann led the Blue team through a steady rain and finished as the games leading ground-gainer with 65 yards in 11 carries. His passing stats read 7 to 17 but the weather was a factor. He was aided by soph-to-be Andy Huff and senior running backs Ed Ziegler and Jeff Zimmerman, all of whom ac­counted for five of the six TD's scored. 
The Blue defense, anchored by tackle Mike McCoy and some sturdy upcoming sophomores, com­pletely throttled the Gold offense, allowing only a 25-yard third quarter field goal by John Dampeer. 
With the hay in the bam for another Spring and the commence­ment of another spell of Hoosier hysteria—^ND style—^just months away it's apparent that tickets won't go wanting come September. 
ALUMNi 
SPEAK 

Weieome ^09 
by Leonard H. Skoglund President Alumni Association 

A s this issue goes to press, it is our pleasant duty to welcome the Class of 1969 into the ranks of Notre Dame Alumni. The Class of 1969 has been a witness to significant changes at the University that will have far-reaching and long-lasting effects on the future of Notre Dame. While change and progress are always part of the scene, there are particular times at which change is more pronounced and certainly the last four years at Notre Dame has been one of those periods. 
Who could have predicted in 1965 that during the next four years the following would happen — control of Notre Dame would pass from the Congregation of Holy Cross to an independent board of priests and laymen; that Notre Dame would be launched on a major program of co-education in cooperation with Saint Mary's College; that stay halls would become the way of Campus life; and that student activities would reach the possibility of a confrontation with the Administration. This period has also seen the creation of the Student Life Council and more recently, the All-University Forum, to improve communications and understanding between various members of the total Notre Dame community, as well as to give greater voice and participation by students in various University policy­making groups. 
The Class of 1969 has been witness to and participated in these significant changes and, in accordance with recent trends in campus affairs, participated actively in student government and development of student influence in various Univer­sity programs. 
In the changing picture of campus life today, the Alumni are also taking a more active role. The new University Forum includes Alumni 
as well as all other groups and ties us in more closely with all University affairs. To properly fulfill our role in University affairs, we must become fully aware of various activities, aims, and goals of the University today and the environment of today's University life — not only that of our time in school. The Alumni as products of this institution can bring a sense of tradition and a wealth of experience to bear on University problems. This, when added to an awareness of current pressures and activities gained through Senate meetings. Alumni publication, and contacts with students, faculty, and young Alumni in various club programs, can be a most valuable asset. 
The help of young alumni — the Class of 1969, as well as others of recent years — can be particularly important now in bringing a balance and an understanding of current events and improve communi­cations throughout all of our Alumni Clubs and activities. We hope that their activity and interest in the University and its future will con­tinue. We look forward to welcoming them into the various local Alumni Clubs, and hope to see them become active participants in various club programs and activities. 

Another Year 
by James D. Cooney Alumni Secretary 

j^ s THE last stubborn magnolia 
petals flutter groundward before the 
Main Building, one of the most 
incredible academic years in Notre Dame history draws to a close. Were we to attempt a Huntley-Brinkley "year in review," we'd be hard put to know where to begin. Oflicially it all started on September 13. In back-checking the academic calendar, we note the day was a Friday. Depending on one's point of view perhaps the fates were trying to tell us something. The more superstitious in our midst might have suggested calling the year off. It would certainly have spared the community number­less anxious moments, spates of graying hair, and lesser duodenal distress. 
But, what tho' the odds were great or small (or unanticipated), we opened for business as usual. As anyone could plainly read, via UPI, AP, NBC, CBS and SDS, we did a land-o£Sce business from lithograph to pomograph, and back to lithograph. Our posture varied firom lie-in to sit-in to walk-out Campus current alternated as we generated student power, black power, faculty power and Alumni (color it green, some students say) power. South Bend looked longingly at Sorin's acreage and annexation was in the air. ND and SMC looked longmgly at each other and decided that after a platonic century and a quarter the real thing had come along. (As Dave Condon once said in the Chicago Tribune, "Well, there goes the old 
neighborhood.") 
For those of us who weathered out the year on the campus, it was perplexing, exciting, exasperating, stimulating and not a little terrifying from time to time. For those of you who watched the ship from the shore it must have appeared the old boat was headed for the bottom. And at least a few must have believed the ship was salvage-Iess. At any rate, we've weathered it, and not without a great deal of cour­age, both within and without Tlie building of a great university is no easy task. Building a great Catholic university, especially in a day when all of society and its institu­tions are swept with the winds of change, is a formidable enterprise. Courage, confidence and a large measure of hope have been keystones around which this place was built They are virtues needed in large measure today, by every member of the Notre Dame community, includ­ing Alumni who have nurtured and sustained this remarkable place since its birth. 
If the year has proven anything, it's simply re-established the fact that the development of this University is the work of all of us, not just one, or a handful of us. The pieces are here. They need but to be put together. Father Hesburgfa's recent announcement of an all-University Forum may just patch them together. If so, the destiny of this University, in one humble opinion, is assured. 
IWZ> Mi/Zii took place in Chicago (left), Washington (top), Buffalo and in the Connecticut Valley. 
Oh Those UND 
FO R THE 69 Notre Dame Clubs around the country who celebrated 
it UND Night has come and gone on a most successful note. 1969 witnessed visits to local clubs by more than 40 students, faculty and administrators touting the theme "The Notre Dame Student Today." 
From Portland to Fort Lauderdale and from Boston to Albequerque the caravan from the ND community explored with their audiences the young men at the University today— what they are, what they think, and what they want from life. 
The April 28 Chicago Club UND Night featured U.S. Navy Cmdr. Lloyd "Pete" Bucher. The Windy City group gave its Decency in Entertainment Award to Edgar Bergin and his sidekicks Charlie McCarthy and Mortimer Snerd. More than 800 people heard Bucher's talk on patriotism, re­sponsibility and accountability and applauded Bergin's skillful exploits with his wooden companions. 
Dean of the Law School William 
B. Lawless was the featured guest at the Washington, D.C. affair April 21 attended by more than 100. The Club was also honored by the presence of this year's Laetare Medal recipient. Supreme Court Justice William J. Brennan, Jr. The gavel was passed on to the new officers and 

Nights! 
the ND Man of the Year Award was presented to Albert A. Virostek '56. 
Back East the men from Buffalo celebrated the great event April 28. Bro. Raphael Wilson CSC, outgoing Director of Admissions at the University, was the featured speaker and new president Bill Kane took office. For the first time the Club presented the "ND Alumni Award" to outstanding high school junior Donal O'Shea (pictured above). 
University president Rev. Theodore Hesburgh CSC visited the Connecticut Valley Club for their night May 5. More than 250 attended and Bob McGolderick '56, was named ND Man of the Year. 
CLUBS 

BERKSmRES The Club held its annual UND Night, April 24, at the Yellow Aster, Pittsfield, Mass. Cocktails and dinner were served to over 45 alumni, wives, and friends of ND. 
President JAMES J. O'BRIEN JR. gave a 
short report on club activities since the last 
ND Night Dr. BERNARD AUGE '47, 
presented the annual Fr. Hesburgh Award 
for scholarship and athletic achievement to 
Scott Canedy, a junior at Drury High 
School, North Adams, Mass. 
The highlight of the evening was an enlightening discussion of the ND Student of Today by Bro. Raphael Wilson CSC Director of Admissions. Guests of the club included the award winner and his parents, Mr. & Mrs. Louis Canedy, and Rev. Raymond Lanoue, Director, St Joseph's Catholic Central HS, Pittsfield, Mass. 
Peter M. Maloney 
BOSTON ART MURPHY '59, BILL PIETRUSIAK "58 and DICK MURPHY '58 represented the Club at the annual Alumni Board-Senate Meeting at ND May 8-May 10. 
JAY CURLY '53 and his committee worked hard for UND Night held in Boston June 6. We all look forward to a delightful evening listening to Arthur Fiedler and the Boston Pops. 
DON COTE '52 is well along in his 
arrangements for our Annual Golf Outing 
which will be held June 19 at Wollaston 
Golf Course. If this is anything like last 
year's event, this will be an event not to 
miss. 
Congratulations to DICK MURPHY '58 who was elected to the Board of Selectmen in the town of Canton. 
Mike OToole '55 
BURLINGTON, IOWA The Club held a spring meeting at the home of Ann and JOHN ONEIL, the Club President for 1969. After a delicious potluck meal, the entertainment was provided by Miss Leslie Gingell, Notting­ham, England, a foreign exchange teacher. She showed slides of her home town and compared the American and British school systems. Present at the meeting were ED and Mary DAILEY, ROLAND and Mary MARTEL, DON and Elaine PETERSON, WALLY and Mary WEINRICH, Rev. ARTHUR PERRY, Rev. HARRY RYAN, BILL and Joanne BAUER, VERN and Marianna BRINCK, ED and Dorothy RILEY, HAROLD and Lucy RILEY, GENE and Mary K. RILEY, JIM and Marilyn PEARRE. 
Fr. Arthur R. Perry '52 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY April is not the cruelest month, at least not for the Central New Jersey Club, for it saw a successful UND Night dinner dance. Among the many present were President HOWARD GILLESPIE and DAVE GIBBONS, Officer-Candidate for next year. 
May was also active with the aimual club 
outing held at Baltusrol Country Club, 
Mountainside. This is quite a thrill for all 
of us to be playing this nationally known 
course, althou^ the low gross prize is a 
little ridiculous. Again we saw movies of 
the past football season and toasted the 
fortunes of the 1969 team. 
If there is anyone in Central New Jersey who is not on our Club's mailing list please call either President Howard Gillespie at 232-3413 or me at 232-1584. 
David E. Collins 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY Two hundred and fifty members of the ND Family in Connecticut gathered in Hartford May 5 to celebrate UND Night with Father Hesburgh. Due to Father's presence and a hard working committee the evening was a tremendous success. Father's remarks were addressed to his favorite topic: "Today's Notre Dame Student" Our hats are off to co-chairmen MIKE CARROLL '55 and BILL McCAFFREY '60 for a job well done. Mike was handi­capped by a cast on his leg but he didn't let it slow him down. FLOYD RICHARDS '42 did justice to his background in journalism with an introduction that would delight editors everywhere. A welcome to Hartford was provided by Mayor Ann Ucello. The Man of the Year Award was given to BOB McGOLDRICK '56 for reasons too numerous to list 
The Club was represented at the annual Alumni Senate Meeting on the Campus by Senators FRANK LANE '54 and JOHN McGUIRE '62. A detailed news­letter of the meeting is being prepared. It will be mailed to all interested alumni in the area later this month. 
Next Event: Family Picnic. Information 
will be forthcoming! 
John McGuire '62 
DAYTON Well, the 7th of May was our Day. At least that's the way it was in Dayton. Rev. Father Hesburgh. came to town as guest speaker at our combination UND Night—SUMMA kickoff dinner. It was the first time in a while for many of us to hear Father. Many of those who made it to the dinner probably do not realize that Father's day in Dayton began on the 6th of May when BILL McGUIRE '65 traveled to Columbus to pick up Father and Brian Regan, assistant The day began just after midnight with Father and Brian Regan checking into the Sheraton-Dayton Hotel. Next it was the Donahue show at 10:30 a.m., followed by a Press Conference at 11:45 a.m., attended by Dayton's "Journal Herald" and "Daily News" as well as camera crews from WLWD-TV and WHIO-TV. Mr. George Barmann from the "Catholic Telegraph" was also there. At 
12:22p.m. Father addressed a group of Dayton's business leaders at a luncheon arranged by GENE MAYL 74 at the Moraine Country Club. At 1:48 p.m., it was off to WHIO-TV studios where Father was interviewed by Tom Frawley for "WHIO-Presents." One more stop was Mike Hawleys' home. Mike is a high school senior recuperating from a severe automobile accident With barely time to shower and shave. Father Hesburgh made it to Sutmillers at 5:54 p.m., just in time for the evenings' festivities which began with a 
receiving line where he was introduced to 
eveiyone by RON HENNE '57, president 
of our ND Alumni Club. 
DEARBORN Our first Post-Lenten activity was the Annual Communion Bnmch, April 27, at Bishop Borgess HS. A 5:00 evenuig guitar Mass started the activities and was culminated by an inexpensive steak dinner for club members and their families. The handling and coordinating of this affair by Chairman CHARLIE KITZ helped to make it an outstanding success. 
VJ». LARRY BEAUPRE and events chair­man CHARLIE KITZ are back at ND, as of this writing, to represent our club at the Annual Alumni Senate Meeting. At our June meeting they will relate all information and "experiences" of this annual affair, including what the prospects look Uke for the 1969 Fighting Irish. 
Tim Devine, Secretary 
DENVER The Club held its annual meeting March 27. The officers and directors elected for 1969­70 were as follows: President, VINCENT DUNCAN '44; Vice-President RICHARD McMANUS, Jr. '65; Secretary, PETE FISCHER '64; Treasurer, LARRY GRIFFIN '63; Directors, RICK BRUNO '64; VINCENT DUNCAN '44; JIM HILGER '56; DONALD KLEE '50; EDWARD MAHONEY '52; ROBERT ZEIS '54. 
The annual UND Night was held at the 26 Club April 12. RICHARD DAMN '64 and THOMAS GUTRICH '65 were in charge of arrangements for the evening. JIM COONEY, Alumni Secretary from the University, was the guest speaker. JIM HILGER '56 discussed the results of the fund raising event for the past year. The benefit premier showing of the movie, "The Shoes of the Fisherman," produced a profit in excess of S2500 for the Scholarship Fund. Brief remarks were made by three non-alumni friends of the University whose gracious support contributed greatly to the success of the project: Mrs. Vera L. Cockrill and Mr. and Mrs. Etienne Perenyi. The scholarship for 1968-69 was then presented by the Scholariship Chairman, JIM COUGHLIN '57, to Thomas Huffendick, a senior at Mullen High. 
Peter A. Fischer '64 
DES MOINES The Des Moines Club celebrated UND Night April 26, at the Des Mouies Club. 
Approximately 100 ND alirmni and their wives attended the banquet to hear ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE deliver the principal address of the evening. 
HAROLD P. KLEIN made the presentation of the ND Man of the Year Award to 
S. F. McGINN. 
There were several out-of-town guests who were in Des Moines due to the Drake relays. The ND Track Team made a creditable showing at the relays. 
Joseph C. Zuendel 
DETROIT The new officers of the Club were announced at UND Night President, THOMAS P. MOORE, II; 1st Vice-President, ROBERT BOGG; 2nd Vice-President, EDWARD BRACKEN; Secretary, TERRENCE E. KEATING; Treasurer, ARTHUR SHANNON. New Directors: GARY DILLON, LOUIS BASSO, ARTHUR SHANNON, MALCOLM KNAUS, THOMAS P. MOORE, II; 
C. M. VERBIEST. 

Guest of Honor at UND Night was the Honorable FRANK KELLEY, Attorney General of the State of Michigan. Master of Ceremonies was the Honorable THOMAS GILES KAVANAGH, LLB '38, Justice of the Michigan Supreme Court. Representing the University at the dinner at the Latin Quarter was Dean WILLIAM LAWLESS of the Law School. RICHARD CONDIT was Chairman of the Dinner. 
Terrcncc E. Keating 
FAIRFIELD COUNTY 
The Greenwich Country Club was tlie site 
of the annual UND Night May 23 and was 
well attended. The afTair was chaired by 
R. JOHN CUNNINGHAM '50, E-xecuUvc Vice-President of the NY Stock Exchange, who did a commendable job. Dining and dancing were enjoyed by all along with the talk of the Guest Speaker, William B. Lawless, Dean, ND Law School. 

A summer family Communion breakfast is being planned with the hope of avoiding the snow storms that usually accompany our winter breakfasts. 
FORT WAYNE The Club observed UND Night April 29 at the Orchard Ridge Country Club. Named the Club's Notre Dame Man of the Year was Dr. ARTHUR F. HOFFMAN '37, for his "long and worthy career as leader in his Church, his chosen profession and his community." 
Guest speaker for the evening was Rev. Edmund Joyce CSC who gave us a deeper insight into the problem of student unrest on the college campuses throughout the country. 
Dan Munson '54 
HARRISBURG The Club observed UND Night April 18 
with a dinner-dance at the Pcnn-Harris 
Motor Inn in Camp Hill. 

More than 60 alumni, wives and guests were on hand. Our guest speaker for the evening. Prof Edward Murphy of the ND Law School, was unable to attend as weather forced a last-minute cancellation of his flight 
The feature of the evening was the presentation of the "Man of the Year" award to Club President JOE ELLAM. The award was made in recognition of his efforts in behalf of the local Club since he reorganized it three years ago. Vice-President JOHN J. BOLGER was in charge of arrangements for the evening. 

Plans are being made for a meeting with all incoming freshmen during the summer months. Also our sixth annual Summer 
Sports Night is scheduled for early August 
on the night preceding the Big 33 football 
game. 
Ernest W. Buckley 

INDIANAPOLIS UND Night was celebrated April 28 at Stouffer's Indianapolis Inn. TOM MOYNAHAN '60 was Chairman; TOM MURPHY '54 was Master of Ceremonies; Archbishop Scbulte led the prayers before dinner; and Judge William B. Lawless, dean of the Law School, provided an interesting and informative analysis of campus unrest at various universities, and policies regarding the matter. 
JOHN R. WELCH '47 was named Notre Dame Man of the Year, and Gerald P. Clarke, a senior at Cathedral High School, recipient of the Club scholarship. 
New officers are: LEO C. McNAMARA Jr. '50, President; J. THOMAS O'BRIEN '53, President-elect; ROBERT P. CRONIN, '45, vice-president; LAWRENCE A. O'CON­NOR, '65, secretary; RICHARD K. OWENS '42, treasurer and JAMES C. WELCH '50, and D. JOSEPH FITZ­GERALD '44, directors. Rev. JOSEPH P. WADE '60, led the prayers after dinner. 
Joseph A. Naughton, Jr. 
JERSEY SHORE CHARLES J. HESSE III '57 has been elected President of the Jersey Shore Club for the coming year. RICHARD J. BYRNE '52 will continue as vice president, as will CHARLES KELLER '54 as secretary. ROBERT A. GIUNCO '57 moves from one of the director posts to become treasurer. 
CHARLIE HESSE served as chairman for the UND Night dinner, held April 11, in the Regency Room at Rod's Shadowbrook in Shrewsbury. The guest speaker for the night was Alumni Secretary JAMES COONEY. 
Honored as Notre Dame Man of the Year 
was Dr. CHARLES PATERNO '40, 
currently the Staff President of Riverview 
Hospital in Red Bank. The selection 
committee was headed by PETER 
BELMONT '47. 
Charlie Keller 
LANSING The major event of the program year— UND Night—^was held at Lansing's newest Supper Club, The Grand Manor, May 7. Chairman for the event, PAT NAKFOOR, reported the best turnout in recent club history. 
Pat gave credit for the good attendance to the speaker for the evening, Mr. John Houck. Life on the Campus and attitudes of the ND student were the focal points of Mr. Houck's address to the assembled membership and wives. 
President DAVE O'LEARY announced the election to additional one-year terms of all of last year's officers. FRANK SIERAWSKI will assist Dave as vice pres., MIKE BYRNE will serve as treas, and PETER HASBROOK will continue as club sec. It was also announced that JOHN POWERS has been re-elected to the Board of Directors after a term out of office. 
Peter Hasbrook, Sec. 
OHIO VALLEY 
After a period of inactivity, the Club held a dinner meeting at Figaretti's Elm Grove Restaurant, Wheeling, W. Va. May 7. Pres. BILL BUCH '60 stressed the need for more participation in the Club's future activities. 
Attendance at the May 7 dinner meeting included: BILL BUCH '60, HARRY BUCH '52 '55, JIM DAILER '50, BILL DUSCH '34, BILL MITSCH '33, RUSS RICKUS '34, GEORGE SARGUS '28, ROBERT SINCAVICH '50, GUS VARLAS '47, and FRANK WALLACE -23. 
BiU Mitsch 
PHILADELPHIA 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held at the Germantown Cricket Club April 25 to the music of Howard Lanum's Orchestra. 
PATRICK KITTREDGE, Esq., '58, was 
elected Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia 
Man-of-the-Year. Pat is past president of 
the Club and is a recently appointed 
partner of LaBrum and Doak. 
Congratulations Pat! 
Father Hesburgh received the Annual 
Brotherhood Award from the Congregation 
Rodelph Shalom. 
ROCHESTER 
The value of an annual scholarship awarded by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Rochester will be increased 33 percent beginnning next September, according to JOHN G. CURRAN, club president 
The new rate will be $400 a year. 
At the present time, four area youths, one in each class at the University, are receiving $300 each toward their yearly tuition. 
Curran said the Club hopes to increase the value of its awards by 30 percent every four years, ultimately reaching the goal of simultaneous full scholarships for four area students. 
William D. OToole 
ROCKFORD 
The Club held its annual UND Night April 22. At this affair which was well attended and enjoyed by all, LEONARD CONDON '32, was named Rockford's ND Man of the Year. Mr. Condon is married to the former Miriam Crowe and has two sons, LEONARD. JR. and TIMOTHY, J., both of them having graduated from ND. Mr. Condon is secretary-treasurer of R. H. Shiunway Seedsman and has been a Foundation Governor for the University covering the territory of the State of Illinois, for the past 20 years. 
Frank P. Maggio 
SOME 
Alleluia! Our Chaplain, Rev. Edward L. Heston CSC '36 has been named to the high Vatican post of Secretary of The Sacred Congregation for Religious. Ad Multos Annos! 
The guest book reads: Richard Van Etten ex '65, Ed Roney '43, Dave McManus, Mike Colligan, Jim Byrnes all '71, Br Lawrence Kriegshauser '61, Ganett OIney '68, Frank Yeandel '66 and family, Richard Delaney "37 and wife Jane SMC '39, Frank Montana, dean of Architecture, Wm Wentworth '66, Dr and Mis. Robert Stierwalt '50, Tracy 
Osborne '61, parents of Bob Ford 71, wife of Tom Walker '42 (son of Frank Walker '09 Postmaster General), John Rider '30 and family, Patrick Stillisano and Bob White-cotton "38 with wives, Tom Fabish '63 and wife. Mother Raymunda Crownhast RSM ex '48, Mother Marietta Hogan RSM ex '61, Msgr. Edmond Hammer '36, Peter Fagan '25 and wife, Eugene McFadden '60, Art Diedrich "23 and wife, John Courtney "25 father of John 'SO and Jun '55, Leo Brennan '51, Jack Hoyt '35 and wife, John Liberti ex "29 and wife, John Barry '52 and wife, Alfred Cowles '55 and wife, David Gomez and Gleason Adams 71, Richard Linquanti 71 with parents and Joseph Holzgrefe 71. 
Vince McAloon '34 Sec. 
ST. LOUIS 
We have changed our name from Notre 
Dame Club of St Louis to the Notre Dame 
Alumni in St Louis and have established 
a permanent ND Alumni in St Louis office 
c/o RICHARD ASH at 7750 Clayton Road, 
St Louis, Mo. 63117. Telephone number is 
314-644-3100. The listing under the name 
Notre Dame Alumni in St Louis can be 
gotten from the information operator and 
will be carried in the telephone book next 
year. 
The 46th Annual UND Night was held May 17 at the new Stouffers Riverfront Inn. Bob Bums, Executive Sports Editor of the SL Louis Globe Democrat was the master of ceremonies, Dan Devine, head football coach and athletic director of the U. of Missouri introduced the speaker and Ara Parseghian made the address. An award for the outstanding high school junior was made to Thomas L. Paradise, a junior at St Louis U. High School. The ND "Man of the Year" award was made to Past President ROBERT 
F. CHICKEY. President-Elect Richard Ash presented an award to the outgoing President JACK POWERS. 
Richard F. Ash 
SAN FRANCISCO BAY 
Amid the elegant surroundings of the St 
Francis Hotel in San Francisco, 120 
members of the Bay Area ND Club and 
their friends gathered to celebrate UND 
Night April 12. MICHAEL HARTNETT, 
chairman for the event 
Honored guests from the University included Rev. James T. Burtchaell, CSC, Chairman of the Department of Theology, Kenneth A. Featherstone, Associate Professor of Architecture, and Rene Torrado, a student The visitors from South Bend were entertaining as well as being extremely informative, and the discussion that followed was lively. 
Gerald C. Smith 
SAN JOSE The Club's observance of the 46th annual UND Night April 11 was very well received by the 100 guests in attendance. The event was held at the Brave Bull restaurant in San Jose. The honored guests from the University, Rev. James T. Burtchaell, Prof. Kenneth Featherstone, and Rene Torrado, presented a vivid description of the ND spirit and student life today. 
The UND Night was also the occasion for the presentation of the Club's ND Man of the Year award. The honor was bestowed on THEODORE J. SOBIERALSKI '54 for his outstanding service to the University and the Alumni Club. Ted was instrumental in orga­nizing the San Jose club and presided as its president for the past two years. 
JIM GARRITY '59, did an exceUent job in organizing the very first issue of the Club's new quarterly newsletter, the "Leprechaim," published Mar. 17. 
Dan Bencze 
TERRE HAUTE CHARLES W. METZGER '48, was recognized as the ND Man of the Year by the Notre Dame Club of Terre Haute. The UND Night dinner party was well attended by ND Club members, wives and guests. MYRON BUSBY JR. was chairman of the annual event which was held at Henri's restaurant in Terre Haute. Speaker for the evening was Dr. Edward J. Cronin, member of the ND faculty. He spoke on "The Notre Dame Student Today" . . . ND student John Harmon who accompanied Dr. Cronin also spoke on the same topic. . . . 
Officers for the coming year were introduced. The Club reelected JOHN CHRISTEN as President . . . BERNIE BURDICK as Secretary and JAMES BOYER as Treasurer. . . . MYRON BUSBY JR. was elected Vice-President 
Jim Boyer 
TRI-CITIES 
The martini dry humor of Fr. Sheedy spiked 
the Summa Drive Dinner—everyone, 
including a Wisconsin Alumni, went home 
bubbling the team of Sheedy, Stewart and 
look on the hard cord 

alumni of Notre Dame—located in the 
general vicinity of the Tri-Cities, Feb. 10 to 
start the Summa Drive. 
Before the crest of the flood of 1969 arrived in the Tri-Cities, ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE entertained a crowd of alumni and wives who came from the far comers of our area including Iowa City, at the UND Night Dinner. 
At a very open and democratic election JERRY HANK, who had filled out the term of presidency vacated by GENE GERWE, was elected President for full term. The other officers elected were Vice-President BILL McCABE; Secretary-Treasurer, CARL LIEBSCHER. Directors elected were BUZ FINN, EMMETT KEENAN, TOM COZAD. BILL BOLLAERT and JIM CORYN. 
TRIPLE CITIES (N.Y.) The ND Alumni held its annual UND Night Saturday, April 26 and presented its 1969 Man-of-the-Year Award to WILLIAM 
C. BURTIS, Treasurer of Crowley's Milk Co., Binghamton, NY. 
A check in the amount of $100.00 was presented to the foundation. Brother Raphael Wilson, CSC, Director of Admissions at the University was the principal speaker at the affair. Guests of the Club were seven incoming freshmen and their parents. 
Officers for the coming year were installed at the dinner: STEPHEN F. DRAGOS, President 18 Vestal Ave., Binghamton, NY; VITO N. POPELKA, Vice-President 7 Parsons Ave., Endicott NY; WILLIAM C. BURTIS, JR.. Secretary, 124 Sunrise Terrace, Binghamton, NY; ROBERT M. CANNON, Treasurer, South Hampton Rd., Binghamton, NY. 
F. M. Linehan TULSA 
The au b celebrated the UND Nigbt Wed., 
April 16, at the Cup Club. Club President 
FARRIS P. SAFFA acted as Master of 
ceremonies. 
The members, wives and guests enjoyed a 
steak dinner prior to the presentation of the 
1968 ND Man-of-the-Year Awaid to 
BERNARD J. SULUVAN. 
The honored speaker was the 1968 captain 
of the Fitting Irish Football Team, 
George Kimz. 
A new member of the Club was introduced 
by George Kunz. George Kimz presented 
TOM POWERS '56, with the ND Man-of­
the-Year Award from the ND Club of Los 
Angeles. Mr. Powers was president of the 
ND Club of Los Angeles during the past 
year and we are looldng forward to his 
participation m the ND Club of Tulsa. 
Ray H. Siegfried, n 
UTAH As reported in the last issue, UND Ni^t in Utah was a tremendous success. Thanks again to our Alumni Secretary, JIM COONEY, for helping make it so. What was not reported, however, were the results of the election. The new <^cets are: ^ President CHUCK BENNETT '55; Vice-President DR. JOHN SCHIRACK '50; Secretary-Treasurer, TED BARES '59. In addition. Rev. Patrick R. Mclnelly was installed as Club Chaplaiit 
As the new Club President, it was my privilege to attend the atmual meeting of the combined Alimmi Board and Senate on Campus. I have returned to Utah with a renewed faith and respect for today's college students and assurance that ND is taking the right course as the leader in Catholic higher education. 
Chuck Bennett 
VIRGINIA UND Ni^t in Richmond had the good fortune of drawing Tom Pagna as guest speaker. Although not a ND graduate. Coach Pagna gave every indication that the loyalty and true spirit of our alma mater have inspired him as much as any of our Club alumni. We all came away with the feeling that Coach Pagna was more than a football coach, but more importantly a leader of yoimg men. He displayed an open-mindedness toward the "ND Student Today" and left an impression that authority was still in control without smothering inquisitive and conscientious youth. 
Frank Carpin 
WESTERN WASHINGTON The Club gathered at the Sherwood Inn April 8, to celebrate UND Night One hundred friends of the University listened to a program relating to the theme "Student Life at Notre Dame, Today." The Program included W. Jerome Kane who delivered The Aluiruii Directors' Report and a brief summary of the Summa Campaign in Western Washington; Prof. Kenneth A. Featherstone, an associate prof, of architecture at ND. Rene Torrado, a ND student and member of the Class of 1969 delivered a speech m which he identified the degree of student invtrfvement and participation in the ND Community. 
Bni Herter 
CLASSES 

Members of the Board of Directors and Senate look, listen and discuss. 
Senate Meets On 
T HE THIRD annual meeting of the national Alumni Senate took place on Campus in early May. More than 100 senators representing local clubs around the country and 12 members of the Alumni Board of Directors were on hand for the three-day conference in the University's Center for Continuing Education. 
The action-packed agenda included sessions with the admissions staff, Vice President for Student Affairs Rev. Charles McCarragher CSC, Rev. James Riehle CSC Dean of Students, Rev. Joseph Fey CSC University Chaplain, and the Director of the new Office for Student Residence Rev. Edgar Whelan CSC. Presenta­tions were given treating religion on Campus, dormitory life, rules and regulations, admissions and the new Student Life Council. Members of the Board and Senate were given the opportunity to ask questions and offer opinions. 
Other sessions included special committee reports; a seminar entitled "Catholic Education: The End or a New Beginning" featuring Rev. Neil McCluskey SJ, Director of the Institute for Studies in Education on Campus and Rev. Ernest Bartell CSC, Chairman of the Department of Economics; a report on the move 
Campus 

toward co-education with St. Mary's from Rev. Charles Sheedy CSC the new special assistant to the presidents of both colleges; and an after-dinner discussion with members of the faculty senate. Special sessions were also devoted to club activities. 
According to Alumni Secretary Jim Cooney, the reaction to the three-day conference was again favorable. "It is a tremendous opportunity for representatives of our area clubs to continue a firsthand contact with Notre Dame and to relay that contact to our alumni around the country. The men generally felt that the senate meeting was extremely profitable." 
Dick Rosenthal, ND's contribution to knighthood. 
Rosenthal Knighted 
RICHAR D A. Rosenthal '54, past presi­
dent of the Notre Dame Alumni Asso­
ciation, has been awarded a high 
papal honor in recognition of his 
outstanding service to the Church. 
Bishop Leo A. Pursley, D. D. received Rosenthal as a knight of the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre at investiture ceremonies held in old St. Louis Cathedral in Fort Wayne on April 27. 
Investiture in the Order of the Holy Sepulchre dates from the time of the Crusades in the Middle Ages. Statutes of the order urge its members "to revive in modem form the spirit and the ideal of the Crusades with the weapons of faith, the apostolate and Christian charity." The honor recognizes the substantial contribu­tions, both civic and religious, that Rosenthal has consistently made. 
While attending N D he majored in financing and later graduated from the University of Wisconsin School of Banking. He joined the Indiana Bank in Fort Wayne and served as president of the Junior Chamber of Commerce there. 
Rosenthal is president of the St. Joseph Bank and Trust Co. and has played numerous civic roles in the community. His service to Notre Dame has been highlighted in his roles as member of the South Bend's President's Committee of the University and President of the Alumni Association. 
CLASS NOTES 
1 5 KEEPING IT IN THE FAMILY Friends and former classmates of ANDREW 
E. FOLEY LLB '10, residing at 505 First Ave. S.E., Watertown, S.D. will be glad to know that he has a son who is a priest in the Diocese of Sioux Falls, S.D. 
Recently I received a letter from JOHN H. 
AHERN PhG 1909 who until about a 
year ago was active in the drug business in 
Salem, S.D. 57058. 
Members of the graduation class of 1913 will remember JOHN O. FOOTE who received a PhG degree from our Alma Mater. He resides with his wife at 1331 N. Gaylord Circle, Mesa, Ariz. That is, he resides there except during the summer when he is at Ponderosa Park, Lakeside, Ariz, up in the White Mountains. 
I regret to add that John's sister and her 
husband died last year as a result of 
an automobile accident The accident oc­
curred near Elko, Nev. 
A pleasant surprise came in the form of a letter from MARCH F. (PREP) WELLS while he was still basking in the sun at Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. He reported that there are a great number of ND men around F t Lauderdale. Among those he saw there was CHARLES BACKMAN LLB '17. "And by the way, he looks just like he did when he was at ND." Among others he men­tioned seeing were the JOSEPH F. FLYNNs LLB '17 and the PAUL J. FOGARTYs '17. He missed seeing HANK ANDERSON or WM. J. REDDEN, B.Arch. '14. 
A note from the Sr HENRY J. FRAW-LEYs PhB '14 from Spearfish, S.D. 
reports that HENRY J. FRAWLEY Jr '60 has been named one of the "Outstanding Young Men of America." 
In the May issue reference was made to RAYMOND HOYER who received an MA degree in 1924 while a member of the faculty at ND. In the early part of 1968 he had the misfortune of falling and fracturing a hip. After a five-week stay in St Joe Hosp. in South Bend he returned to St Anne's Retirement Home in Ft Wayne, Ind. of which he is a charter resident Ray reports that he "is getting along very well and manages to live a full life and am very happy." 
I regret to report the deaths of a number of ND Alumni. WILLIAM P. FEELEY CE 1906 of 179 E. Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, was at the time of his death chair­man of the board of Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co., with which he had been associated for more than 60 years. He was a former director of the New York Central RR and served on the science and en­gineering Advisoiy Council of ND. Surviving are his wife Elsie, a son Wm O., vice-pres. of Dean & Witter Co., a dau^ter Mrs. Mary Grace, a sister and nine grandchildren. 
Fimeral rites were held March 11 for JOHN 
W. CAVANAUGH Sr and his son John Jr. who were killed in a Wilmette, SL traffic accident John W. Sr a Chicago attorney for 30 years was managing partner of the law firm of McDermott Will & Emery, 111 W. Monroe St and John Jr. was a student at New Trier West HS. Surviving are his wife Jane Stude Cavanaugfa; four daughters, Mrs. George Humm, Ann, Jane and Maty Elizabeth; and a sister Mrs. John W. Scallan. The family home of John W. Cavanaugh is at 76 Locust Rd., Winnetka, 111. 60093. Thanks to PAUL G. DIXON for sending the notice of the death of CHARLES 
G. CORCORAN '17, April 10 in Spring­field, III. The funeral Mass was offered April 12 at Blessed Sacrament Church, Rt Rev. Msgr. J. J. Haggerty officiating. He is survived by his wife Ebnyra, a brother Frank Corcoran, Joliet III. and several nieces and nephews. The family residence is at 1801 Lowell Ave., Springfield, lU. 62703. 
Albert A. Kuhle 117 Sunset Ave. LaGrange, lU. 6052S 
1 6 CUBA TO CALIFORNIA No, I'm not "lost in clover" but trying to get news has been a task and I won't just send in a filler when we all have so much to read anyway. EMILIO SALAZAR '16 now lives with his wife at 1400 Fremont Ave., Apt 2, So. Pasadena, Calif. 91030. As reported earlier he came from Cuba about a year ago and I found him in good health and very alert Why not contact him, classmates? He was back to ND last June for a look after 52 years. These boys were back in 1966 after 50 years: 
H. SYLVESTER, MAL ELWARD, RAY HUMPHREY, LOUIE KEIFER, PAT MALONEY, AL FREUND, J. A. LA FORTUNE, JERRY MCCARTHY, TIM GALVIN, JAKE ECKEL, RAY McADAMS, ED MARCUS, GROVE MILLER, AL SCHLIPF. Now we are welcomed back every year. Wonder how many will be back in "71—our 55lh? I spend winters in Florida and summers in Northern Wisconsin on Boulder Lake with my wife and four grandchildren. Now please classmates send me some news so I can put it in the 1916 news bulletin. Grover Miller '16 1208 S. Main St Racine, Wis. 53403 
17 PAPAL BLESSING FLASH: Pope Paul has bestowed the Apos­tolic marriage blessing on The Hilgartneis, who observed their golden wedding aiui­versaiy June 7. 
Since your correspondent and his beloved spouse, Mary Ruth, were busy observing and celebrating, I may as well admit, their golden wedding anniversaiy. I cannot give you an eyewitness report of our S2nd Reunion but it will be interesting to read next month how many signed in and with their wives, yet These are surely changing 
times when the alumni secretary urges us to come back and bring our wives. I can just hear those tough Brownsonites of 32 years ago, such as MUGGSY McGRATH, the old right guard or big NICK RYAN, the varsiRf pitcher whose chew was as large as the baseball itself, shout out "Why?" or "What for?" 
No doubt BERNIE VOLL, our modest class leader, made everyone happy with his bountiful hospitality. Isn't it about time that we bestow the permanent title of class president upon this wonderful guy who has done so much for our alma mater and for our Class. Let's hear from you about this worthy suggestion. 
• * * AFTER SEVENTY * * * Pamper the body. Prod the soul. Accept limitations but Play a role Withdraw from the front But stay in the iighL Avoid isolation Keep in sight Beware of reminiscing Except to a child To forgetting proper names Be reconciled. Despise not solitude Let no one condone. Cultivate interests Enjoyed alone. Don't mention ailments— (I see you have some) But this is a subject On which to be dumb. Refrain from loquacity Be crisp and concise. And regard self-pity As a cardinal vice! 
* * * 

Bernard J. Voll We recall at our 50th many agreed to come back every year thereafter for the simple and somber reason that the days are getting shorter for all of us. So, let's get our campus buddy to promise now and we can have a record crowd on hand for 1970. 
Please remember SHERMAN "SKID" MAY of Superior, Wis. in your prayers. He passed away April 14 after a brief illness. Skid was never married but a good joiner otherwise and was a K of C, and also belonged to the Elks, Eagles, American Legion and Veterans of Foreign Wars. He is survived by his twin brother, Stanley, who also attended ND, and three sisters. 
A post card from Tokyo—not the yellow 
kind this time, signed by BILL GRADY, 

our champion globe-trotter, on their way to 
Hong Kong and the Orient, said they are 
having a wonderful time but hope he and 

Maiy will be back for the 52nd Reunion of 
our Class. We do too and all others who 
can make it The days are getting shorter. 

LAW WELCH of Indianapolis checked in on one of those yellow post cards and said he expected to be back for our 52nd Reunion. He is still "gainfully employed," as Father Bolger used to say. Law has 14 grandchildren, 7 and 7, which is a pretty nice division, and should put him among the "big four" of our Class for the mostest Dan E. Hilgartner Post Office Box 75 Hatbert, Mich. 49115 
I* "REBEL YELL," ANYONE? PAUL D. SCOFIELD, we regretfully report; died Feb. 24. A monogram man, lie was a delightful member to be with at 
ND. He was a charming and brilliant son 
of an outstanding surgeon in Columbus, 
Ohio. Paul studied medicine and became a 
doctor. During the last World War he was 
attached to the medical div. of the Aimy. 
He did live in Birmingham, Ala., but moie 
recently lived at Rock Ledge, Fla. I called 
him by phone to attend our 45th Reimioii, 
but he would not come. 
Our class treasurer, a vice president of Beloit Savings Bank, J. DEWEY ROSEN­THAL, a careful guardian of our class funds duly deposited in his bank imder the name of ND Class of 1920, sUtes that with interest and being compounded, it might be possible to purchase, at wholesale, a couple of bottles of "Rebel Yell," but nothing more. JOHN BALFE suggested to Dewey that our classmates contribute to our class treasuiy 5-lOc to bolster up the treasury and perhaps in doing so you could designate the brand of "Rebel Yell" you would like to order for our 1970 reunion. His couple of bottles might not keep our more active class members in continued high spirits. Our 50­year reunion should remind us that all should attend to enjoy the fellowship and memories of our college days. 
Dewey attended the marriage of his son in Washington, DC and then went on an extended vacation in Hawaii and California. He asked for a good turnout, saying time is getting short for all of us. I do not find that to be true for our classmates in Florida and several others of our busy and interest­ing members. Only the winters come twice a year. I am asking for a list of our present members for his official use. 
The 50-year Reunion of the 1919 class will be this June. You of 1920 will recall that many of us spent our early years at ND in the class of 1919 and left for the various services of our country and the different war theaters. After the war several did not return to ND for various reasons but are still on our alumni list Some in the ROTO, I believe, stayed in the 1919 class to graduate. Others like myself and John Balfe doubled up on our classes and were able to cut off six months to finish in 1920. You will also find that others who started in 1919 did not finish until 1921. 
SHERWOOD DIXON attended the last 
1919 reunion and others might enjoy doing so now. 
James H. Ryan 2470 East Avenue Apt 314 Rochester, NY 14610 
•21 LEO PLANS THE FUTURE A long-distance call from LEO KELLY^I from Syracuse, brought news of his spending the winter in Pompano Beach, Fla. He relates that Brandy was not able to make it, 
but he attended a St Patrick's Day Party given by the ND group around Lauderdale. 
It is his suggestion that we try to have a reunion in Pompano in late February or early March, in preparation for our 50th Reunion back at school in June of 1971. 
I think the idea is excellent Let me hear from you. 
Dan W. DaBy 1030 National City Bldg. E. 6th St Cleveland, Ohio 44114 Ka EXTEND SYMTATHY JUSTIN E. HYLAND was called to his reward at age 72 in his home city of Decatur, IlL March 6. Justin was treasurer and business manager of Madigan-Hyland Inc., consulting engineers of Long Island City, Queens, NY, prior to retirement in 1966. He also was a trustee of the Moles, an organization of heavy construction men. We extend our sympathy to his widow Esther, a daughter Mrs. Patricia Uhl, a brother C. Joseph Hyland, a sister Mrs. Eleanor Murtagh and to other family members. Please remember Justin in your prayers. His '22 classmates had great admiration for him. 

REV. GEORGE B. FISCHER CSC during Holy Week was on missionary duty in Halifax, Nova Scotia at the Mt St Vincent Motherhouse. We salute Father George with hearty congratulations and best wishes on the occasion of his 40th Anniversary in the priesthood June 24. 
The VINCE HANRAHANS of Chevy Chase, Md. are booked for a flight to London at the end of May. Most of their visiting will be in England, Ireland and Scotland. Vince reports a visit by New Jersey BILL MURPHY on a Chevy Chase stop-off while enroute to Florida. Vince also reports that DAN CULHANE 13 gave a nice speech at "the Fassils" about Boys' Club, and that he himself was due to lead a discussion on the "Panama Canal" at a kiter date. Other news tidbits supplied by Vince were that he was pleasantly surprised to attend a travel movie at a nearby high school and find that the narrator was FRANK J. McGINNIS "24. PETE ECKERLE's widow is now recovering from a tough operation a few weeks ago. 
Gerald "Kid" Ashe 
175 Landing Road North Rochester, NY 
n* COFFEE? IRISH? OR BOTH? 
These are the notes you should be reading about the time that you are having coffee 
(or Irish coffee) with one of your old 
classmates. 
PETE CURRAN wrote, just a little too late for the deadline on the May issue, 'out newsy. Pete can't make the Reunion but IRVING W. CAREY will. He hasn't heard from AL CASTELLINI. What hap­pened, Al? DR. JASPER F. CAVA would like to attend but needs to find someone driving from the vicinity of Mingo Junction, Ohio. If it was Petticoat Junction, he could take the Petticoat Junction Special. 
MAURICE CLAUSEN, WILLIAM CON­NORS, RONALD COLLINS, DR. BRUNO COOK, and ROBERT CUNNINGHAM are luiable to attend, but they did answer Pete's inquiry. So any of you Lonely Hearters who want to write to them, you should get an answer. 
JUDGE THOMAS C. DONOVAN writes from Chicago that HARRY DRIGGS and BILL DRENNAN will be present The Judge was previously reported in the attending column. 
CHARLES ROBRECHT wrote from Short Hills, NJ. that he retired from Standard Oil (NJ.) five years ago. You did it in quicker time than most of us, Charlie, but then he has 15 grandchildren scattered from Boston to Ann Arbor. How many can beat that? He also says: God willing. 
ru see you at the 4StIi in June. This is a good opportunity to tell all o{ you how Sony I am. I want to go so badly I can taste it, but, believe it or not, I have a 
conflict I am getting my degree in social-psychology after a 45-year delay by Father Carey. After retirement from W. R. Grace Co. a couple of years ago, I returned to school to finish my education in a local establishment not nearly so well known as ND. I can only say I'm glad I finally made it They seem to have learned a lot in universities since '24. 
Now, as we near the end of my volunteer year as your Class secretary, I hope someone with some dynamic literary ability will pick up the challenge and keep our Class of '24 represented in this column. I am really joining the Alumni Class '69 of another school but will be looking for the bits of news about the Reunion and my classmates of '24 NDU. We all have some very fond memories that we like to have revived when we see the name of some old classmate we knew in the good old days. 
James P. Durcan 
5400 S.W. Scholls Ferry Rd. 
Portland, Ore. 97225 
'25 PRAYERS FOR GOOD FRIEND JOHN HARTLEY sent word of WALLY CYR's deadi April 8. Wally is survived by lus wife Alice Emery Cyr who lives at 49 Riverside Ave., Stamford, Conn. This came as very unhappy news to me as we were good friends on the Campus and he came back for most of the Reunions. John Hartley also advised HANK WURZER who will have a Class Mass said for him. Remember him in your prayers. 
FRANCIS P. McFADDEN, 401 N. River­side Dr., Pompano, Fla. wrote that he heard from Hartley about Cyr's death and thought­ful "John B." sent copies to BOB GORDON, JOE TOLAN and JERRY BENNING. Frank added that GEORGE LAUGHLIN and BILL BELL were in Florida all winter and he wrote—"we were on the alert for you and DON MILLER but no word. Hope you are in good health as we are here, thankfully." Your secretary was in Florida for a very short time but at Key Biscayne. Maybe next year we can try another pre-Rcunion get-together. 
If any of you fellows run across DUT GRIFFIN or if Dut reads this, drop HANK WURZER a line, as he is anxious to hear from his old sideldck. 
Finally a wonderful letter from JIM ARM­STRONG which should be of great interest to all. "Just received the ALUMNUS out here in California visiting the boys and their families. Thanks for the spotlight It was undoubtedly a gratifying experience. If I did not have the vivid, campus experiences and acquaintances which marked the years since 1921,1 could avoid a lot of schizophrenic stretching of my mind. In the light of this background, it is impossible to accept a lot of activities and pronouncements of the current campus. In many ways, on the darker days, it looks as though we share the intellectual death-wish of American higher education. But in the light of other less spectacular and less shocking and less unprecedented experience optimism surfaces, and the firm and shaken (well shaken perhaps, but not unseated) conviction that the U. of 
Cangrats 
Francis M. MeClam '32 has been elected president of Belknap & Mc­Clain, Inc., wholesale distribntors of Mohawk Carpets and Armstrong Linoleums in Watertown, Mass. A co­fonnder of the firm in 1949, he has served as treasurer and controller of the corporation. 
Stephen R. Clarke '41 has been named treasurer of the Hercules Corp. of Wilmington, DeL He had been assis­tant treasurer for five years and assistant comptroller four. 
Ambrose F. "BuO' Dudley '43 of Philadelphia has been awarded the Sons of the American Kevolution Gold Good Citizenship Medal. The Society's highest award is given to a man whom they consider to be one of the nation's finest patriots. 
John G. Mack Jr. '45 has been ap­X>ointed general mgr. of sales at In­land Steel Co. in Chicago. He was named asst. general mgr. in 1967 after four years as mgr. of bar products sales. 
James Ruff '47 has been appointed president of the Medical Products Div. of Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. He was previously vice president of market and product planning for the American Hospital Supply Corp. He will be responsible for sales of gases, chemicals, and equipment to the med­ical and dental professions and lab­oratories. 
James R. Kraus '49 has been ap­pointed president of Pennsylvania Wire Rope Corp., Williamsport, Pa. Previously he was project mgr. of the Azzarelli Construction Co., Kankakee, lU. 
Our Lady will not only survive, but will emerge with heightened stature and sig­nificance after the present struggle. Father Hesburgh sowed a visionary liberty and has reaped a far less idealistic license. He has urged a restructuring of the University, and faced its destruction by smaller minds. He has crystallized a great and needed third dimension of truly *Catholic higher education' from the separate components of education and re­ligion, and finds this new dimension jeopardized by the anarchistic revolts against both education and religion. But the heroes and martyrs of 12S years, plus the day-to-day loyalty of generations of campus-wide dedication, will not crumble too quicidy before even the raucous attacks of confusing minorities and causes. Most of all, it seems to me unlikely that a uni­versity dedicated to Our Lady will find the evidence of Providence suddenly removed from its always uphill progress. So stay in there and pitch. Let's all live long— 
An Old 
HI S life story reads like the legend of Davy Crockett It differs in only one re­spect—it's true. 
GEORGE COOPER, former faculty member and friend of ND, was bom on a Minnesota farm in 1890. He learned how to hunt, fish, and ride horses at a very eariy age there and in North Dakota. One day while riding home on a cow he cut across a creek which was deeper than he had anticipated. As the cow sank he sud­denly found, at age six, that he could swim. 
Wrestling was a skill that he acquired early and never ceased to use. At age 17 he stayed in the ring for 16 minutes with the greatest wrestler of all time—Frank Gotch. In 1911 Cooper came to South Bend and worked at the Y for two years before going to Springfield Training School. That is where he first met and became good there will be too much of interest in Ae 
years ahead to miss. The 4Sth ought to be 
the beginning of a new series of Reunion­
and-Renewal. Sunshine, fresh air, fniits and 
vegetables, and grandchildren, are helpiilg 
John P. Hurley 
2085 Brookdale Rd. 
Toledo, Ohio 43606 
<2S LONG TIME NO HEAR 
The death of TOM COLLINS in Fall River, 
Mass. from lung cancer on April S was the 
first death aimounced under the new class 
program of sending a message to classmates 
when we are advised promptly of deaths. 
After waiting for 40 years I was pleasantly surprised to hear from AL MAHAR, GEORGE BYRNE and JOHN FAGAN. AI Mahar hit Wall St on leaving school and got caught in the crash. He spent a few years in Africa for the Engli^ Business 
Friend 
friends with ND's Knute Rockne. 
Rockne went up to Springfield during the summer to teach to hi ^ school coaches the fundamentals of footbalL While there Cooper and the Rock roomed together. At Springfield Cooper captmned the footbaU team and played just about every sport there was. He traveled with the wrestling team and battled the best opponent ir­regardless of his size. And this was niAoat practicing because he was too involved widl other sports. 
In 1918, after receiving his master's ftian Springfield and flying in the Air Corps dur­ing WWI, he returned to South Bend and became physical director of the Y. He remained in that position until his retire­ment four years ago at the age of 75. When he returned here he and the Rock renewed their friendship. Cooper recalls how Rock 

George Cooper relaxes among mementos, rtuirvy of which are from ND. 
Survey Co. and then proceeded to see the lest of the world with the American Export Lines. He retired in 1967 and now works part time in the Wall St area. He saw action in WW II and Korea. His wife died a few years ago. Our class vice pres., JUDGE BILL JONES, succeeded in gettmg s letter from George Byrne who is employed by Foster Wheeler Corp., an engineering firm in Livingston, NJ, where he has wotfced in the Fired Heater Div. as a service designer for 30 years. George is married and has three sons. 
I was Sony to hear from FLOYD SEARER that my old roommate, Willard Wagner, bad a stroke in March in Arizona. I understand now that Wag has left the hospital and is making good progress lecoveiing. I also regret to report the serious illness of the wife of ED BRENNAN, dir. of Central Services in Cook County, and the iOness of JOHN W. WOULFE, owner of die Clyde Printing Co., Chicago. 
would ask him about the best stances for his guards and tackles to take against the opposing defense. 
When Notre Dame decided to open a Physical Education Department they natur­ally turned to George Cooper for advice and help. After it was set up he began to teach anatomy, kinesiology, and physical diagnosis in the mornings while working at the Y in the afternoons. 
One ni^t while he and Rockne were sitting around a campfire with some other coaches they came up with the concept of grass drills (calisthenics on the grass before participating in an athletic event). Since then Cooper has come to every ND foot­ball game eariy to watch the boys go throu^ the routine pre-game warm-ups that he and Rockne developed. 
Helping the Y to set up Camp Eber­hart on Corey Lake, Michigan was one of the biggest accomplishments of his life. And being its director for SO years was cme of his greatest challenges. Camp Eber­hart started out as an athletic camp and Cocqier had all the great athletes and coaches from ND up there helping him. 
Jake Kline taught baseball, John Wooden basketball, Alex Wilson track, and Rip Miller, Joe Boland, and Frank Carrideo in other sports. Cooper recalls Rockne teaching the boys the fundamentals of foot­baU and their great dissatisfaction because "Oity wanted to learn the plays instead." 
In 1921 Cooper rescued three men from drowning in a lake and was nominated for the Carnegie Foundation Medal for Hero­isnt He was denied the award because *iie had not risked his life while saving diem." This episode served as the impetus Oat made him so concerned with life­saving and water safety courses at ND, the Y, and at Camp Eberhart 
Throughout his life his most evident quality has been his ability to relate and inf^T'Kf the minds of youth, say his friends. When asked about his life George merely i^ie d modestly, "I've had interesting eqieriences working with all kinds of peofrie." There are thousands of people iriio have had even more interesting ex­periences working with George. 
GEORGE COURY was one of four dis­tinguished Miami area civic and business leaders honored by the Independent Colleges & Universities of Florida for their dedication to the cause of higher education. George serves on the board of trustees of Barry and Biscayne Colleges. 
HOWARD FHALIN was appointed by Governor Ogilvie of Illinois to the boud of governors of state colleges and universities. 
HENRY MASi \1AN made good use of the yellow card enclosed in the ALUMNUS by sending it to me from Bangkok, Thailand after he had visited Japan, and Hong Kong. I understand BILL KEARNEY was in Japan about the same time as Henry. MIKE RICKS is in Europe; BOB HAMILTON in Rome; VINCE WALSH in Montego Bay, Jamaica. SAM DUNNE wiU spend June touring Ireland and will return to Gimgarvan, County Waterford where he was bom. VINCE CARNEY expects to be in Spain in September. I hope others follow Hemy's example and send me a yellow card from the ALUMNUS when they are traveling, as well as at other times. Better yet, notify me in advance as I may be able to arrange a get-together with a classmate for you. 
ED McKEOWAN was elected honorary president and JOE GRIFFIN a member of the board of governors of the ND Club of Chicago. Our class vice-pres. continues to do an outstanding job as chairman of the nominating committee and in rounding up '28 men for club afiairs. 
HAL MILLER retired from General Dynamics, Pomona Div. after 15 years. Hal and his wife hope to say hello to some of our classmates on a seven-month tour of the US and he promises me a report 
J. F. "SAM" DUNNE wiUretire June 1 from Farmers Rice Cooperative in Sacramento. He will move to San Francisco where he will open shop on a part-time basis as a business and public relations consultant His address will be 47 Kittiedge Terrace, San Francisco, Calif. 94118. Thanks, Sam, for your verse "Lucky Little Leprechaun" on St Pat's Day. 
JOHN FORGE who retired from Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. in 1968 is now living in Big Stone CiQr, SJ)., Box S77, according to our class vice-pres. CHRISTIE FLANAGAN. 
GEORGE SCHEUER was elected president of the Deanery Council of Catholic Men in die South Bend area. 
Don't forget to order tickets for the 
S. California game so you will be at ND for our ISth annual Class of "28 cocktail party on Oct 18 and for the Purdue game so you can attend the "28 party at Joe Doran's home outside Lafayette on Sept 27. 
JAMES J. HARTLEY died unexpectedly on Feb. 26, 1969 while on vacation in Miami. Jim was a retired accountant for American Can Co. in Jersey City, NJ. He is survived by his wife Gertrude, 77 West Palisade Blvd., Palisades Park, NJ and his son Jim, ND '63. Junreturned for our 20-year Reunion. Our treasurer JOE LANGTON has arranged for a Mass for Jim. Remem';;r him in your prayers. 
Louis M. Buckley 641S North Sheridan Rd. Chicago, lU. 60626 >31 AT THE URGING OF TOM . . At the urging of Tom Sullivan, ALUMNUS managing editor, I will try to make the current deadline with a bit of Class news or I nm the risk of losing my job as Class secretary. Do I hear any takers? Only one yellow card this time. LEO KLETZLY took time to write. He had lunch with RAY GEIGER in Columbus recently and ex­pressed hearty approval of Father Hesburgh's stand on campus problems. I saw some familiar faces at UND ni^t in Chicago. Lt Cmdr. Bucher, USN, and Edgar Bergen were honored guests. TOM MONAHAN was there with his two sons, Pat and Joe, who are now living in the Chicago area. Among others attending were RAY COLLINS, CARL CRONIN, BERT METZGER and many more whom I hope to report on in the near future. 
DON OTOOLE sent a note telling of the 33 1/3 wedding anniversary celebrated with BILL and Mrs. LEAHY. Bill presented Don and Marion with a plaque ornamented by a quarter, a dime, three pennies and one-third of a peimy, all 193S vintage. Their wedding date was Oct S, 1935 with the marriage performed by BOURKE MOTSETT shortly after his ordination. Don also had notes from JERRY CROWLEY and GERRY DES­MOND indicating activity but no news. Don's brother Paul has been in Mercy Hospital for surgery and is doing well. I talked with ED RYAN recently and he sends best wishes to all. Eddie has been under the weather for a few months, but is looking forward to areturn to his oflSce and also attending the football games this season. Among recent visitors were Bert Metzger and BERNIE LEAHY. I bad an early morning phone call from MATT GARRIGAN who was visiting HENRY KOPEK at the time. Much to Matt's surprise Irecognized his voice iirmiediately. He is looking forward to a post-game cocktail gathering of our Class after one of the games this fall. I hereby nominate Matt as chairman and ask that he select a game for this affair so it can be properly publicized. Before taking oS on those "round the world" vacations, please take time to send some news for our column. 
James T. Doyle 
1567 Ridge Ave. Evanston, 111. 60201 
•32 TWO FOR GRANDPA Would you believe I wrote a colunm for the 
May issue that got there a few days after the deadline, and they scrubbed it! 
Dropped in on GENE CONNELLY at his Manhattan restaurant and he looks great Gene became a grandfather for the first time last September and again in November (different daughters—Tara and Lyim). Both girls had girls. 
Delighted to hear from old friend JOE PETRITZ. "Had a very good visit a while back with NICK LUKATS '34 who is sales mgr. for Penetray Lighting Products, Inc. out of Toledo. He looked like the old triple-threater. Also see and com­municate with HARVEY FOSTER, rm'dwest vice-pres., American Airlines, who heads our Chicago Club committee for the International Sports and Games Library and Research Center." 
And a note from REV. JOHN "HACK" WILSON, CSC that he win be viiitoal director oa a ll-iny pilgrimaae to the Holy Land and other places of interest ia the Middle East in October. Stops also at Some, Fatian, Geneva. For « free brochure giving die U^Ii^ils of this ex­citing trqi write to Father at St Jbsepb Hall, Notre Damc^ Ind. 46S56L Hack reports that PAUL OTOOLE a (was) in Chicago's Mercy H09. for difficult spinal surgery. Also that JACK WITTUEFs son Phn who received an award as high scorer on the hockey team and dected captain for next year is abo linebacker on the football squad. Thanks, Hack. 
And dependable RAY GHGER writes "While I was in Chicago I had anopporto­ni^ to talk to JACK TURE OIL' GEDDES lAo now lives in the submbs ot Chicago, Palatine, 10. Abo talked to BOB GORMAN iriio is chief in charge of all marketing public lelatimis tmd publicity for Allstate Insurance." 
EDWARD O'MALLEY is representmg die 
Belleville, HL diocese at the new perma­
nent Illinois State Conference, doling with 
such social matters as education, labor, 
coimnunication. family life, lidngy, human 
relations and ecmnenism on a statewide 
leveL Ed is an attorney in BelleviDe. 
"I am neaiing the end of my tour of duty in Peari Harbor and am being transferred to Jacksonville, Fla. in May. We are looking forward to retirement from the Navy in three more years. After Jnne 1 my address win be 4205 Oiistano Road, Jacksonville, Fla. 32210. Best regards to you and any other pet^ile in that area who might remember me. Sincerely, 
R. a Lee, Jr, Capt, JAGC, USN." 
Florence J. McCarthy 6 River Rd. Scarsdale, NY 10583 
<33 3C-YEAK SOUND BAnUEK 
Among the comments evoked tty Father Hesbui^'s stand on campus disorders, was 
a first letter in 36 years from JOE BEAN. He says that the announced pidicy gave Um a great sense of pride tspedaSif lAen he realized that he attended a UniversiQr which has a President with enough guts to take appropriate actioa. Switching to himself, Joe writes that he justfimshed the job of being trrhnifal program diairman for the 1969 IEEE Wmter Power meeting held in NY the last week of January. As he has had this job before, he keeps chtcking the registry for names of former classmates. The otdy one he ever found was CHARLIE SLATT who came in fiom Bonneville several years ago. Ife opina that there must be more Power men in our class. Electrical that is. Anyway Joe would like to meet them and can be reached at the American Electric Power Service Corp, NY. He adds that ED TROY, iriio now resides in Sormy California, got in toodi with him several months ago. Finally Joe mentioas hell be on the Campos this summer and is plaiming with {deasure a tnp to our 40lh in 19731 
BILL HAWKES sends die surprising news that he hasretired after more than 33 years in the Navy. His address is: 1527 Hacienda Drive, H Cajon, Calif. 92020. He'd like to hear from his old ND friends. I recall oor late secretary and beloved classmate, EDDIE MORIARTY, speaking in glowing terms of his friend Bill and nominating him as the '33 Man of the Year. 
The news of the death of WILLIAM F. WITTENBURG was very shocking to me. Bill had written to me several times after our 35th reimion because of questions I had asked him about Beaver Island. Last week some tourist information arrived about Michigan and the vacation island. Bill had worked in the Michigan auditor-general depL for 28 years. He had retired in June, 1966 as director of county audits and local government Since that time he and his wife Florence made their home on Beaver Island in the summer and in Florida during winter months. Mrs. Wittenburg's address on the island is: P.O. Box 86, SL James, Mich. 49782. 
GEORGE E. BOLGER, who sent me the information on Bill's death, said that be had intended to be at our last Reunion and is now very sorry that he missed. The last reunion attended by George was in 1938 when he was with Bill. The Bolgers have one boy who is currently three hours of summer school away from his master's degree and then four years in service as an AF Reserve officer. Mona and George are alone now. He is tax mgr. for Michigan Wisconsin Pipe Line Co., a natural gas pipeline company that brings gas to Michigan and Wisconsin from both Texas and the Louisiana gulf areas as well as tax mgr. for Great Lakes Gas Transmission Co., a natural gas transporter. NORM DUKE is with a similar type company, George, in Florida. If any of our classmates are in Detroit, they can see George in the Michigan Consolidated Gas Co. Bldg., 1 Woodward Ave., Telephone 965-1616. 
Myfinancial consultant, JAMES P. ROSS, has been named asst. comptroller of General Dynamics Ccrp. Jim who continues as director of tixes, has headed the General Dynamics Tax E)epL since 1959. Our classmate, ^xfao was graduated with us with honors, received his LLB from Fordham. Like Judge Lee, I presume he has exchanged that degree for a JD. 
JACK HOYT writes that he is leaving for a weekend in Chicago where he will get in touch v/ith some of the boys. Shortly after his retiim from Mayor Daley's city, he will get going for Rome with Archbishop Cooke for his consistoiy into the College of Cardinals. The farthest I ever got in the Church, Jack, was captain for ushers at the 12:30 pm Mass at SL Denis. Come to see me before I get demoted to the guitar Mass. 
The PAT CROWLEYs will lead a round­
the-world trip visiting in the homes of 
members of the Christian Family Move­
ment as a part of the People to People 
Study Tour. 
Judge Maurice Lee, in a five-page 
letter, says he attended the ND Law School 
Centennial Convocation in February and 
exchanged his LLB for a JD degree. He had 
the opportunity during the celebration to 
visit with my good friend. Honorable RAY 
BRODERICK, "35, Lt Gov. of Pa. 
Old faithful, CHUCK HAFRON, made a survey of our West Coast classmates and located all of them except: L. G. FISCHER, WILLIAM G. FL-iTNN, JAMES H. McGRATH, and ROBERT C. McMAHON. The address of FREDERICK W. MacBETH, JR has been recified and corrected. C. 

Fritz Hafron, Jr an expert on the sports 
history of South Bend since the legendaiy 
days of Hulle & Mike's, recalls that 
UCLA's John Wooden, then a high school 
coach at South Bend Central, was 
recommended for an assistant coach to 
Johnny Jordan. Church, 
Charles A. Conley 
100 East TumbuU Ave. 
Haverto\vn, Pa. 19083 
'36 MOVE ON, LARRY Sony for the late news due to moving. Received yearly letter from the WENT­WORTHS. Had another basketball championship this past winter so congratu­lations are in order. Last summer had charge of a newsboy program for Great Northern showing them the mills and a lumber camp for a look at woodcutting operation. "Then the boys were flown to Rainbow Lake where the company has a beautiful sporting camp where they enjoyed three days of wonderful fishing. George and the Mrs. do a lot of fishing and playing golf during summer months. Rest of the family doing well in school and work. 
From PAUL CUMMINGS: Was at ND last June 2 at Paul Jr's graduation. At Loyola June 9 where eldest daughter received her MD degree. Hope to be back at ND in 7 0 as son Tom is a junior. The years have treated me well. Have wonderful wife, a Trinity grad, and three daughters, two Trinity grads. Three boys, one at ND, another a senior at U. of Mass. Paul is a supervisor of Massachusetts Rehabilitation Commission. Keeps in close touch with JIM DUTTON of Norvrich, Conn. 
From FRED GABRIEL: All weU in Bradford, Pa. where Fred is associate radiologist at local hospital. Last fall Fred and three of his oldest boys flew out to ND for the Northwestern game. All seven of his children in school from the first grade to second year high. Hope to pay you a visit sometime this siunmer. 
Sony to report the deaths of ROBERT ALBERT and WALTER BERNARD and his wife who were killed in an automobile accident Remember them in your prayers and Masses. 
More news in next issue from JOE NEUWIRTH and WOODY STILLWAGON. No more time left to beat the deadline. Hope you will forgive me for this long delay. 
Larry Palkovic 303 Mechanic St Orange, NJ 07050 
•37 LAWYERS UP ND WAY We are gaining new conespondents. JIM LEVI, Circuit Judge of the 7th Judicial District Wisconsin, brouE^t the legal profession up to date stating that he had served 18 years as county judge after receiving his LLB and JD degrees since 37 days. Jim attended the Centennial observation of ND Law SchooL Others of '37 attending: PAT FISHER, BOB HALEY, TONY BRICK, RED WATTERS, TONY SCOLARO, ART MULHOLLAND and FRAN DUNN. Thanks Jim for the note. ED HOYT reported hearing from REV. JOE ENGLISH, MM who by the way has 
a new address at Padres De MaryknoU, Parroquia N.S. de Fatima, Casilla, 258, 
Talca, Chile, S.A. Ed's son Jim graduates from Montclair this year and is listed in "Who's Who Among Students in Colleges & Universities.'' Ed stOl teaches at CCNY. Hold on to this £rom ART HOFFMAN— Dr. Art, that is. (Anesthesiology), 9 chiUren, including a set of twins. The oldest, John, graduates from ND this year and another registered for class of '73. Three at St Louis U. and rest in grade school. His wife Maiy was elected pres. of the women's club at the church in her spare time, and with all scouting activities (three sons as Eagles) Art made his mark with the Silver Beaver Award. What have you other fellows been doing lately?????? JERRY BESANCENEY (Ohio hcense No. ND "37 and 37 ND plates) expects to see the NU game next fall. His son is a 1st Lt stationed in Virginia as a gunnery training officer. Jerry promises to make the next leimion. 
Wonderful letter from Mrs. Kay LYNCH, BILL'S widow, explaining his heart attack in Los Angeles in April, recovering at home and death in September. Bill had been a construction consultant for the Sisters of Charity of St Vincent DePaul taking care of their building requirements all over the US. Surviving are seven children, his mother and sister (married to MATT McINERNEY '37). Remember BiU in your prayers. JOE MOORE, Bloomfield, NJ made the picture of the week in Newark News sport section as coaching aide in basketball. JOE MANGELLI also hails from the same burg. We need a new address for MIKE BRIAS, Manila. Anyone supply it???? 
JACK MULLIGAN from Lake Village, Ark., one of our track stars of '37, finally showed up on our listing. Send some news along. Jack. 
Maybe Rev. Hesburgh CSC will further 
lecommend "tossing them in the lake." It 
sure worked in the '30's. 
congratulations to LEN TOSE on his election. Now he's looking for money at low rates to take over the Eagles and JOE KUHARICH. . . . 
We have found ED CROTTY wearing two hats for the city of Danbury, Conn, as dir. of parks and playgrounds and also dir. of the recreation dept Ed also has an interest in a summer camp program for the youth of Danbury. Ed had a son graduate from ND and advises he's all set to make the 
30. You'd never believe we split an upper bunk of the old NYCRR in '38 Christmas. VINCE MURPHY reports from Chi:ago that along with ten litde Murphys all over the world he foimd time to join the Chicago Peace Movement He sees JIM McHUGH who is in trade journalism when in the Loop area and that MARTY BURNS of United Insurance keeps in shape by foregoing lunch and working out at the loop gym. Marty has to keep in shape for all the proms. Vince gave us the news on passing of HARRY BALDWIN, the old left­hander on the golf team, dean of the front row in commerce courses and convention dir. for Dean McCarthy. Harry died from a heart attack following surgeiy. Survived by four chBdren. His wife had died about five years ago. Remember Hany in your prayers. 
Joe Quinn P.O. Box 275 Lake Lenape Andover, NJ 07821 
I* «1 DAYS OF NOTHING Returned from Indiana Legislature one day after the deadline of the last issue of the ALUMNUS, so here are two issues in one-for same price. 
The past session of our legislature was dominated by Republicans who couldn't agree amongst C"nselves. It was a 61-day "exercise in futility" which passed a budget but no taxes to adequately fund it The governor, came up with absolutely no program—and the legislature pa^ed it! While they were lighting amongst themselves I managed with the aid of CEF (Citizens for Educational Freedom) of which I am State Pres., to get a couple of bills passed that acknowledged for the first time the need for aid to parochial school students, but the governor vetoedtwo of them that would have cost a little money. The only one he signed would allow public school boards to rent textbooks to parochial as well as public school students. The two vetoed would have permitted corporations to deduct 50% of gifts to any school in Indiana, public or private, and would have made Indiana the first state to do this. The other would have given tuition grants up to $800 a year, depending on need, to students 
in private colleges. 
Besides a luncheon with TOM FITZ­GERALD at the Indianapolis Athletic Club, the only other contact I had with '38er5 were canls from DR. A. WILLIAM DeBRIENZA from Brooklyn and BROTHER COLUMBA MILLER C.FX. from Louisville. "REGGIE" DeBRIENZA who attended our 30th Reunion, said he had a private one in Brooklyn with CAS VANCE and wife Betty, and JOE CALLAHAN and wife Mary. Reggie says he hears from GENE "DUFFY" DOLAN but didn't say what Also that he's still grateful to Rev. JACK ANTON and JOE ZWERS for driving him back from the Reunion to Chicago safely. Didn't know they were that bad drivers?? Reggie's oldest son Bob has just returned safely after a year in Vietnam in AF while his younger son Bill has just started on a dangerous mission, becoming a happy bridegroom recently. My wife Helene and I hope to see Reggie and some other '38ers when we are in New York April 18 and 19 on the start of round-the­world CFM trip. Maybe we'll run into JACK FOX who is commander of the carrier USS Independence? 
BROTHER COLUMBA, a retired Xaverian brother, said he was dismayed at the student demonstrations but glad to know Father Hesburgh has denounced them and is keeping them under controL Amen, Brother, Amen. 
CHARLEY CALLAHAN, "BOSWELL" of the Miami Dolphins football team, likes Miami, which he calls the sports capital of the world—according to Dave Condon in the April S Chicago Tribune "Wake of the News,"—so weep not for Charley and don't let him discourage you from visiting him because nothing is going on. 
If you can't find Charley call TOM MULLEN whose new address is Apt E-6, 9392 S.W. 77th Ave., Miami, Fla. 
JOE HENEBRY has moved from Maryland to 90S6 Clifton, Niles, 111. EUGENE "GENE" SUTHERLAND left Louisiana for Texas (3002 Cordova Dr., Temple) and EDWARD POTTER moved from Virginia to Apt 2, 777 Washtenaw, Ypsilanti, 
Congrats 
Vinemt M. Post '52 of Tonkers, N.T. lias been elected 'vice president and group supervisor of Fred Wittner Public Relations, Inc. He will direct publicity account service to the agency's Chemical Process Industries Group. 
John E. Pottoek '52 has been named one of the top ten salesmen of the Babcock & Wilcox Co.'s power gen­eration division. B&W's power {gen­eration division is one of the largest suppliers of conventional and nuclear steam generating systems and com­ponents for xwwer. 
William E. Reidy '53 has been named as corporate director of Systems and procedures of Kraftco Corp. (for­merly Natl. Dairy Products Corp.). In his new position he will assume responsibility for direction and co­ordination of all data processing in th e Corp. 
David J. Metz '55 has been appointed manager of investor services for the Eastman Kodak Co. of Rochester, NY. He has been with Kodak since 1959. He and his wife have two sons and live in Pittsford, NY. 
J. D'Arcy Chisholm '56 has been named vice president. So. California operations, for HUton Meyer & Co. A specialist in industrial real estate, Chisholm previously was senior con­sultant with Real Estate Research Corp., Los Angeles. 
Dr. George M. Kremba '56 has been promoted to Advanced Display Sys­tems manager of the IBM Systems Development Division in Kingston, NY. In his new position he will have re­sponsibility for device development, new product development, special systems development, and system design. 
Michigan. You natives ought to welcome these lads to your diggin's. Received card from Rome from Class Treasurer BILL RILEY, East Chicago's world-traveling banker. Bill found Paris delightful, Spain rainy, and Rome still the most fascinating European city, the Papal audience being the high point of his trip. 
See you around—^the world? 
Bumie Bauer 
1139 Western Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 46625 

'4» EGO EXCUSED Since the news is so fabulous I am sure that you will understand why I start by reporting about myself. Next fall I shall return to the ND Campus as a member of the Col. of Business Adminis­tration teaching for the DepL of Ac­countancy. In addition 1 will be returning with Kay Houser, SMC, as Mrs. Sanford at that time. Both of us are thrilled to be together again and returning to the campuses where we first met 
Other news is quite scarce, but I know 
I will be able to do a better job in the 
future. WILLIAM "BILL" COLEMAN 

is continuing to expand his activities in the 
business community. He was recently 
elected to the board of directors of Detroit SteeL 

My old roomate NEAL GLEASON has moved from Milwaukee to LaCrosse, Wis. I believe JIM CASPER is still in Milwaukee; saw some old snapshots of Jim and his wife Eileen taken during senior prom weekend. There also was a picture of Fred "Bud" Robertshaw and his wife Helen. 
HANK ROGERS is now living in Arlington Heists, IlL; HANK DOWD is a new resident in Norwood, NJ.; BEN MAR­NOCHA remains in the east, but is now in Arlington, Va.; DICK LYNG reports a cross-coimtiy move from Sacramento to Washington, DC.; PAUL CHAPUT is now in Overland Park, Kan.; Rev. FRANCIS ALLEGA is at Sacred Heart Church in Schnellville, Ind. 
WILLIAM C. KENNEDY has moved to Chicago: JOHN M. WOLF is now in 
E. Grand Rapids, Mich, and Rev. BOB McENIRY SJ has been transferred from the retreat house in St Louis to Columbus, Ohio. 
Robert G. Sanford 233 W. Central Ave. Lombaid, 10. 60148 
'42 ONE WAY ONLY—UP The ALUMNUS office advises us that 

L. PAUL LEE has been appointed Stainless Steel marketing mgr. of the Fullerton Metals Co, Northbrook, 111. Leo is living in Winnetka, 111. with his wife and four children. 
WILLIAM H. GRADY has been appointed asst vice pres. of sales for the New England Telephone Co. Bill had been asst vice pres. for Revenue Matters for the past five years. He and his wife Anne have one dau^ter Anne-Marie, 11 years old. 
It is always a veiy sad and difficult task to report the death of a classmate. WILLIAM 
J. YAEGER passed away March 19, 1969 and to his wife and family we extend our 
deepest sympathy. 

March 25, 1969 DONALD J. HOGAN succumbed to cancer. Don is survived by his wife, Jane, and five children—^three sons and two daughters. Please remember both of these men in your prayers. 
Let's get those cards in, fellows! News is 
veiy scarce. 
William M. Hickey 
5500 West 73rd St 
Chicago, Illinois 60638 
'43 FORDER MOVES UP EDWARD T. CONLEY JR. has been named controller of the Royal Oak-Romeo (Michigan) industrial equipment plant for Ford Tractor Operations of the Ford Motor Co. Ed has been with Ford since 1955. He and his wife and four sons live at 6529 Perham, Birmingham, Mich. 
JOHN H. DUNN has been accorded 
special recognition by the Naval Research 
Lab for a scientific research report vdiich 
he co-authored. The report deals with his 
work in the Lab's Radar Div. 
A long letter (that's the kind we like) £rDm 
BILL MIDDENDORF relates a trip he, his 
wife and eight of the clan took through the 

West (From all the stops and activities. Bill 
must have stopped at Ft Knox first) They 
visited JIM MURPHY, his wife and mother 
who operate a dude ranch "Ox Yoke 
Ranch" at Emigrant Mont Says Bill, "Best 
dude ranch and finest food ever with 
reasonable prices. Don't miss it for a 
wonderful time, as they are most gracious 
hosts." Jim's brother TOM '40 was an Air 
Force fatality in Italy, WW2. They visited 
BLACK JACK CALLAGHAN '39, letited 
from the FBI and now founder and director of the Iowa Police Academy. Your secretary attended the Chicago Club 
UND Night (Unner with Jack Bany.Oneof 
Jack's guests was Navy man Rich Rogala, a 
member of the Pueblo crew. The Class of 
'43 was well represented with JACK GRIFFIN, BILL SULLIVAN, FRED 
GORE, BOB KUIPERS, MARK LEIS, TONY GIROLAMI, JOE KEENAN. BILL 
McCAUGHEY, RAY SCHOONHOVEN, RENZO PESAVENTO, JIM McELROY, JOHN SPECHT, TOM HERLIHY, ED HANRAHAN, VERN PELLOUCHOUD present Also had a nice visit with LEO LONIGAN '4r 
Frank W. Kaiser 307 Cheny St Chatsworth, lU. 60921 
'44 25-YR. REMEMBRANCE This is the time for memories. Twenty-five years have passed ance all of us left ND. Those years flew by. For ever so many tlw attachment to ND was climaxed in the Silver Jubilee Reunion on June 6-7-8. For 59 others there was no Reunion on Campus except in spirit, in heart and in prayer. 
It seems appropriate to remember these men of the Class of '44 and to list them in this column. DANIEL J. ARNHOLD, VIN­CENT W. BARRY, WALTER H. BARTON, JOHN T. BATTAILE, JAMES 

P. BIRDER, DONALD H. BIRREN, JOHN 
J. BISHOP, EUGENE M. CARNEY, JAMES D. CASEY, HENRY B. CAUDILL, JOSEPH M. CHENEY, KELLY F. COOK, THOMAS E. CREEVY, LOUIS F. CUR­RAN, JR, MARK E. DeMOTS, FRANCIS 
E. DUGAN, Jr, EDWARD J. DUNHAM, ROBERT L. DUNN, CORBET J. ELL­ROTT, ALLEN H. ELWARD, HURLEY 
H. ENGSTROM, GALAND V. FUNK, JR, JAMES P. GIBBONS, MATTHEW R. GRANT, ROY J. GRUMBINE, THOMAS 
F. HALLIGAN, GEORGE S. HAMILTON, JOHN F. HENCHY, ROGER H. HENRY, THOMAS E. KERRIGAN, LOUIS L. KMET, WILLIAM L. KRAPF, PAUL L. LALLY, WILLIAM B. McDONALD, JR, JOHN J. McGINNIS, JR, HUGH F. McHUGH, BROTHER M. MALACHY. DONALD E. MARNON, FR. JAMES L. MARTIN CSC, PATRICK R. MASCHKE, RICHARD L. MASON, JOHN J. MAY, FRANCIS M. MURPHY, BERNARD A. O'CONNOR, JR, STEPHEN F. O'ROURKE, JOHN A. PARCHEM, JAMES G. PHILLIPOFF, ARTHUR V. PRICE, MORGAN J. QUINN, WILLIAM A, REMPE, WILLIAM C. SPARKS, PAUL 
S. STOKELY, JOHN A. SULLIVAN, ALAN F. THORMETZ, JAMES L. TORRENCE, ROBERT M. WITUCKI, GEORGE M. WOLFE, JR, JOHN K. WOLFF, and EUGENE M. ZUPKO. 
May these 59 sons of ND together with all the sons of Our Lady be granted eternal rest 
Joseph A. Neufeld 
P.O. Box 853 
Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
'45 ON TO GREENSBORO 
A. E. "CHUCK" SARTORE has left Huntsville, Ala. for Western Electric at Greensboro, N.C. Chuck, Jane and their three boys will be at 3001 Farmington Drive. 
FRANK COURTNEY reports in from Portland, Ore. that he is "single, solvent and sane." 
BOB MAURER's daughter Caria is at 
Hillsdale Col. Bob is President of B & B 
Box Co., Toledo, Ohio. 
"The Judge," JIM CLYNES, made his BIG deciaon. The bank chimes will continue to ring. I've heard they ring every time Jim makes a deposit and it's the constant ringing that bothered the professor. 
Frank Linehan P.O. Box 5000 Binghamton, N.Y. 
>S* FOOTBALL FAMILIES ZIP ROEMER, with the FBI 18 years, had a fine reunion on campus at the Frank Leahy Testimonial—over 1000 Leahy era men attending. Zip's son Bob not only was named Honorary Captain of the All-Chicago Area Hi ^ School football team but also received a Chicago Club Knute Rockne Award last fall. Let's hope that from his 60 offers he accepts Notre Dame. TERRY and Kd BRENNAN visited us on our cruising houseboat (Terry's chicken is great) in March and by the time this goes to press will probably be back this way (Grand Bahama Islands) on a visit for BIythe and Co. BOB and Pat CHARTERS and their five children in Bellevue, Wash, are happy, as I suspect most of us are, with Father Hesburgh's stand on rioting on campuses. Bob is engineering mgr., Aero­siace Systems Div., The Boeing Company. 
DON and Fran BUSECK and their four are doing well in Erie, Pa. One of my old 
No Grinun 

REV . RICHARD GRIMM CSC "SB, a man of many careers, brings to each new assignment an enthusiasm which matches his 6* 4". Twice he was prefect of religion at ND, from 1937 to 1941 and again from 1949 to 1952. In between, he was superior of Holy Cross Seminary on Campus. He con­tinued his contact with the students of the 'SOs as teacher of religion while serving as assistant superior and then superior of the Holy Cross priests and brothers at ND. 
Since last summer Father Grimm has been chaplain at Ursuline Academy and the Ursuline Sisters' Motherhouse, Paola, Kan. Says he in a recent letten "In addition I have been working with the Ursuline Sisters to set up a Christian Communica­tions Center which will try to provide a Christian experience in what is called the new Christian Community, with instruction in the theology of Vatican II. This Com­munications Center is also a center for re­treats for nuns, laymen, high school and college students, and for ecumenical dia­logue among priests and Protestant min­isters. What we are really concentrating on in the Christian Communications Center is setting up a vital Adult Education program." 
While he was rector of the seminary, the separate program for older candidates for the priesthood and brotherhood, mostly veterans of World War II, began to take form. 
It was during his term as assistant reli­gious superior at ND that the first separa­tion of the superiorship, traditionally held 
top-secret classmates JOHN FERRY (I can imagine his comments on the Pueblo fiasco) reports he and Gloria are doing fine and expect to see the EGGERS, ROWLINGS, COURTNEYS et al. for a home game this fall. John is production mgr. at Van Huffle Tube, Warren, Ohio (Div. of Yoimgstown Sheet and Tube). Marge and TOM O'GRADY and crew rented DICK and Lee KLEE's now-famed fancy bus for a summer trip in Canada. JACK and Maty McHALE, Washington, DC report oldest daughter Kathleen's college prospects and son Mike's band playing in the Inaugural Parade; Therese is also at La Reine. 
JIM HOLWAY still gives me a call from the Pan Am lounge at Miami Int'l Airport on his way to S. America. Rev. DAN CLARKE reports all well in his dual capacity as pastor of the Irish settlement, St Patrick's Church, Cummings, Iowa and as editor of the Des Moines Diocesan paper. My wife Maty Pat's brother. Rev. TOM FEELEY CSC, StonehiU CoL Northeaston, Mass. and I had our quarterly discussion here at Christmas. He assures me that Thomistic philosophy will not be ovemm but outdated parts may be 
Tale Here 
by the president, at that time Father Hes-
burgh, from that of the presidency of the 
Universi^ took place. This enabled Father 
Hesburgh to execute an end ran around the 
canonical prohibition of more than six years 
as superior and to remain on as president 
The new superior. Father Giimm, and the 
president effected the transition to the new 
modus operandi with dispatch and a mini­
mum of problems. 
Father Grimm's other "careeis" have included a term as superior of the com­mimity infirmary at ND and a five-year (1962-67) stint as a teacher at Holy Cross Seminary. During this last stretch he be­came interested in modem catechetical methods and content and in Scripture, so he returned to school at SL Mary's College and received a master's degree in Scripture in 1967 at the age of 59, the oldest kno?n> recipient of such a degree in the school's history. 
Before taking up his duties at Paola, Father Grimm spent a sabbatical year in the pastoral counselling program at lona College, New Rochelle, NY. During this time he was also assistant chaplain at Manhattanville College, taught Confrater­nity of Christian Doctrine classes in a Bronx ghetto, and was engaged in two inner-city projects there. 
Since arriving at Paola, he has wandered as far away as Antigonish, Nova Scotia, and Prince Edward Island to give nuns' re­treats. Last summer he devoted a month to a renewal program for the Incarnate Word Sisters in San Antonio, Tex. 
discarded with the Vatican II impetus. Now that I have completed my 50-hour course on Vatican II, I am happy to report that although the rites may be chan{^g and the sales pitch reorientated by better use of the social sciences, the bedrock of solM Catholicism remains. 
LARRY and Marcia COUTRE and family are thriving here. Thanks to Larry and other FBI men's solid lack of sleep for four days last December, Barbara Mackle, niece of Board of Trustees' member FRANK MACKLE, JR., was safely retrieved from an abductor's grave. Have heard from ED and Barb KELLY, Glenview, 111. about fine neighbors such as MARK BERENS. JOE BECKER is in La Crosse practicing law. RON MYRTER is now assL general counsel of INA. JIM CREAMER is asst general sales mgr. for New Departure-Hyatt Beating Div. of GMC. As for the THORNTONS, Maiy Pat teaches sociology at Maiymount College, Boca Raton, Fla. and assures me that the Thomistic moral theology we learned at ND and SMC is still the guide youth should have now. My son John is busy-as­can-be lector at our youth Mass, on the golf and debate team and president of the student 
Fr. Grimm (teft) Uving the apostobte. 
For those whose memoiy goes way back to the time lAen the Lcqrcda Acadenqr (Chicago) basketball tournament was tie annual event which determined the national Catholic basketball championship, it migjit also be mentioned that Dick Grimm played on Peoria's Spalding Institute team which won the title in 1924. After servhig as assistant prefect in Brownson Ha0 imder Brother Alphonsus in his jimior year, (1928­29), he entered the novitiate. Having had three years of electrical engineering, he was eiKoufaged to cantinue in that field at Moreau Seminaiy and received his B.SC. hi 1933. After four years of theology at Holy Cross College, Washington, he was ordained at Notre Dame in 1937. 
For recreation in Paola, Father Grimm does a bit of vegetable gardening and tries his hand at fishing. He claims considerable success in the former and narrows any possible credibiliQr gap to zero by ad­mitting no hick whatever in the latter, a notable exception in a long string of suc­cesses. 
coimdl. Coral Gables Sr. H. He and his father are wading dirou^ a m'c^t school in auto mechanics, 12 his. per week, before he takes over a used Kaimen Ghia. Jane (IS) is the joumafist, Deborah (14) the oceanography prize wiimer and Mike (9) the shell himter and pihn tree climba; Hope this finds all of you weU. Please s^nd in iiifoimation on youiself and your family. 
Sparky Thomtim 4400 Monserrate St Coral Cables, Fla. 
'SZ OUT WIIH IT, MEN! This Class secretary reporting is a strange business. Again we have to go to press before the last issue of die magazine has been released. The mailing has been somewhat thin to say the least so how about breaking out those post cards and dropping us a few lines on your activities. 
A very nice letter came in from ANGELO J. CARUBBI, JR ttom Houston, Tex. Tex graduated ftom Law School at the U. of Texas in 1958. He started in a local firm as an asst handling real estate, probate, and coiporation woik. In 1960 
23 
Congrats 

James L. Greene '57 has been elected a vice president of Eesei-ve Insurance Co., Chicago. His new responsibilities will include the area of finance and administration. He and his wife and their three children live in Deerfield, 111. 
Bill Chesson '58 has received the Dis­tinguished Service Award as the Steu­henville area's Outstanding Young Man of the Year from the Steuben-ville, Ohio Jaycees. Bill is the Acting General Manager of WSTV-Radio in that city. 
Terence F. Shea '61 won the 1969 Supple Memorial Award "for excel­lence in the reporting of the news of religion in the secular press." He is a staff writer of The Natmial Ob­server. He and his wife and two children live in Silver Spring, Md. 
Bro. Gordian Vdhisky SC, MA '62, head of the science department at Catholic HS, Baton Rouge, has been named to receive a Shell Merit Fel­lowship for study this summer at Cornell U., Ithaca, NY. He is one of 35 science and math teachers from the US and Canada selected for the 1969 program. 
Garland D. Williajiis MA '64 has been named vice president of the Berkeley School in "White Plains, NY. He will continue to serve as dean of the West­chester Berkeley School. Williams resides -with his wife and three chil­dren in Spring Valley, NY. 
1st Lt. Timothy E. Griffin '65 was recently cited on the spot for "hero­ism while participating in aerial flight" and was awarded the Distin­gruished Flying Cross. His action while flying a helicopter in Vietnam saved the lives of many American soldiers. 
,1 

AJ. went on his own. While in business for himself, he was appointed ci^ judge of Pampa, Tex. While still in private practice and acting as judge, he and several partners founded a construction company called Top.O-Texas Builders. In September, 1966 Tex was appointed by the attorney general, Crawford C. Martin, to the post of exec. assL to the attorney general. In March, 1967 he iras licensed to practice before the Supreme Court of the US and has appeared before this court on four different occasions since December, 1967. At present he is with the law firm of Dyche, Wheat, Thornton & Wright 
AL PIASO dropped a line from Rockville Centre, NY. He and bis wife Nancy are the parents of seven children, 4 boys and 3 girls. The oldest will start high school this fall Al spent two years in the Army after graduation. Later he was associated with a grain exporting firm. Now he is with Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, etc., working as a commodity broker. He is anxious to get together with the old bunch for the 20th Reunion, which won't be long now. 
JOHN ANTHONY HALTER has joined Proper^ Research Corp. as investment director and regional mgr. of the firm's San Francisco ofiice. John was vice-pres. of Security Pacific Nat'l Bank in Los Angeles. Prior to this he was a CPA with Price Waterfaouse. In 1957 John received his master's from the U. of Texas and later completed his doctoral course as a fellow of the Ford Foundation from Stanford U. He and his wife Ethel are now living in Tiburon, Calif. 
A sequel to the WILLIAM A. SANTINI JR stoiy. When last we left Bill, his company was in ashes and bankruptcy. In January of this year, his new company. Phoenix Materials Corp., became a public corporation. Four of bis six partners scraped up $28,000. At this time, the embry­onic coiporaUon has a public stock value in excess of $8,000,000 and the four founders hold 75% of the stock and they have just begun to fig^t 
A sad note has come to light EDWARD 
H. WOLF of South Bend passed away just recently. Ed, who was a former poli;e­man here in South Bend, was an executive with the Bendix Corp. He suffered a fatal heart attack when playing handball at the local YMCA 
BOB BENSON is now living in Grand Rapids, Mich. He was graduated from Wayne State U. in Detroit Mich, and is a hustling attorney in Western Michigan. 
WiUiam B. King 613 E. Donmoyer Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46614 
'S4.'74=ONE CENTURY 1954! Gad that was a long time ago. Do you realize that by our next Reunion (1974) that some of us will have sons attending ND and we'll almost all be gray at the temples (or bald—or touched up). 
Must be a lull before Reunion time as news b mighty scarce. Tonie and CHRIS MALONE had a daughter Bonnie Ann bom Feb. 7. Had a newsy note from JIM MacINNIS, Southfield, Mich, (outside of Detroit). Jim filled me in on the present and ex-Detroiters. JOHN SCHLEGEL is woridng for Ford. DICK RYAL has moved to Penfild. NY. 
Dr. BILL CONLEY is practicing in Birmingham, Mich. Dr. PAUL KELLEY is practicing in a clinic at St Joseph's Hosp. in Ann Arbor. Dr. TOM MOORE is practicing at Detroit's Receiving Hosp. Jim saw WALT BERNARD at the ND-Spencer Haywood game. JIM GUMBLE­TON is en^eeiing with GM. Lastly, Jim Maclnnis is still living the bachelor life. He won the K of C all-events bowling tournament this year averaging 217 for 37 games CWow!) But that won't stop him from getting to the Reunion. 
Your sympathy and prayers are requested 
for our classmate JIM LANTIS of Dallas, 
Tex. and for the father of MIKE 
SCANLON, Columbus, Ohio. 
Now you've got to agree this is one pretty 
bad article. You might consider writing 
me a short note. It wouldn't help 
much, but it'd be different 
Milt Beaudine 
21 Signal Hill Blvd. 
E. St Louis, III. 62203 
'55 LETS LIVE IT UP First in response to hundreds of inquiries (would you believe a couple?), the Class Reunion and cocktail party will be held in the Morris Inn after the So. California game Oct 18. In case we get ousted on that date for some unexplained reason, it will be after the Michigan State game Oct 4. Why not order tickets for both and live it up a little?! Don't forget Old Man, next year you'll be toasting your ISth Reunion. Woof! 
Delighted to receive a call from Rev. JOE O'DONNELL, who is back in the states after a stint on a heUcopter carrier off Vietnam. He would like to be on his way back as soon as possible, but right now is assigned to the San Diego base until his ship is reassigned. He received the Navy Commendation Medal on his first swing. 
Many of you may have seen a profile on Father Hesburgh by FRANK MAIER in your local paper. Frank did the story originally for his paper, the "Chicago Daily News," but it then was distributed across the countiy and I know it appeared in the "Los Angeles Times" and "Kansas City Star" because my brothers sent me the clippings. They had better send the clippings because Frank included a brilliant quote by yours truly. Incidentally, Frank has been nominated for a Pulitzer Prize for an expose series he has been doing for more than a 
year. 
DR. JOHN MISKEL JR, has been appointed manager of the Resin and Polymer Synthesis Lab of the Nopco Chemical Div. of Diamond Shamrock Chemical. He and his wife Helen, and their seven children live at 105 Oak Ridge Rd, Ramsey, NJ. 
Some bulletins from those on the move: GEORGE KOCH, 115 Boyhen, Rochester, Mich.; TONY GUTHERIE, 13881 MoreU Circle, Santa Ana, Calif.; GERRY SHEAHAN, 570 De Kalb Pike, King of Prussia, Pa.; STEVE SCHLENGER, 2827 Westbrook Dr., Ft Wayne, Ind.; CHARLEY HANLEY, 11900 Piney Glen Lane, Potomac, Md.; DON BAIN, 1011 Longview Dr., Woodbridge, Va.; BOB BENSON, 717 Plymouth Rd., DaUas; BOB STUKAS, 205 Garfield Place, So. Orange, NJ; JOE O'MALLEY, 3373 Poplar Ave., Memphis; and JOHN McNAMARA, 67 BatUe Creek 
Place, St Paul. 
TOM WELLY has been elected a vice pres. of Carson, Bayer & Associates, Inc., of Toledo. He, his wife Ann, and their three boys and two girls live at 2043 Mount Vernon Ave. in Toledo. 
BOB RUSSELL has been appointed vice pres. of Bache and Co. He presently is mgr. of the Chicago institutional office. 
BUD LaLONDE (Dr. Bernard J., of course), who has been teaching at Michigan State (we'll have something to tell this guy at the Reunion), has been appointed the James R. Riley Professorship of Marketing and Logistics in Ohio State's CoL of Administrative Science, effective Oct 1. 
Maj. JOHN LOCHT, an air operations officer, has received the Air Medal at Elgin AFB in Florida for his "outstanding airmanship and courage on successful and important missions under hazardous condi­tions." He is assigned to a unit of the Tactical Air Command and previously served at Phan Rang AB, Vietnam. 
Ellie and ED FOX welcomed their third colleen Mar. 18, just one day late for St Pat's Day. In her announcement Ellie wrote that Ed is still with the same downtown LA law firm. The Fox residence is at 2020 Alamo Dr., Monterey Park, Calif. Another lawyer, JERRY GROARK, broke a three-boy string Mar. 1 with Shelagh Eileen. Naturally he was floating on air. While on the stork kick, want to report that gremlins got into the type at South Bend with a recent issue. The column came out with the news that Gail and JOE KEARNEY have five. It should have been two. They were mentioned in the same paragraph with Ginger and HANK GIES, who do have five. Hope this straightens things out for me with Gail! 
TOM CAREY was reelected secretary of 
the ND Club of Chicago at UI^D Night The featured speaker at dinner was Cmdr. 
Lloyd Bucher of the Pueblo. 
Let's hear from you now, gang, and don't forget the Reunion after the USC game Oct 18. 
Paul Fullmer 
1922 Larksdale Dr. Glenview, lU. 60025 
'St A NICE CHANGE Arrangements for our Class Reunion have not as yet been completed, but the details will appear in the ALUMNUS when arrangements are finalized. Please point for the Southern Cal game. 
THOMAS C. DONOVAN, JR. writes from Colorado Springs, Col., where he has practiced law for the last three years, that he, his wife and four children are really enjoying small-town life after four years of law practice in Chicago. 
On May 25 of last year, JOHN ADAMS was married to Marsha Rudolph. John is still vice pres. and general mgr. of Grey Advertising's Detroit Office and he and his wife are now buying a home in the Bloomfield Hills area of Detroit 
HANK OLBRICHT dropped a note from NYC. Hank is marketing supervisor with Restaurant Supply Company- While in NY, Hank looked up S. EDMUND "SIL" RESCINITI, lAo threw a wild party for htm at his PaA Ave. bachelor hq. SPIKE DAY was invited, bat had to give SU's bodyguards the password before they WDuM allow hnn In. Bank, SB and Sinke all wonder what happened to Detroit's TOM RYAN. 
RALPH L. PICKLING was recently pro­
moted to major in the USAF. Ralph is 
stationed at Fort Mather in Sacramento 
where he is a navigator instructor. 
The US Navy's LCDR JOHN P. OGREN 
sends greetings from Saigon where he has 
been on the staff of Comdr. Naval 
Forces Vietnam for the past three months. 
John has been overseas for six Of his 11 
years with the Navy. 
WALTER J. GILL is with the Phitco-Ford 
Corp. His job concerns qiace and 
satellite commmiications. 
JEROME C. GATTE has moved to 
Saratoga, Calif, and has purchased the 
Argonaut Mortgage Co. in San Jose. 
The American Board of Trial Advocates has bestowed the title of diplomat on BERNARD J. ALLARD of San Jose. Bemie has been practicing law in California for the last eight years. 
RONALD E. RENNER has been elected 
president of Indianapolis-based Rentier's 
Express, Inc. 
CDR. ROBERT K. MILLER is the cmn­
manding officer of Mobile Construction 
Battalion S3. He will command 700 men 
working on transportation netwodcs in the Danang area. 

Eugene P. O'Connor 668 Ellicott Square Buffalo, NY 14203 
'57 NO CHANCE. JACK! At the writing of this column I note the first signs of spring in the Chicago area and with this in the air the JACK O'DROBINAK-GEORGE GROBLE annual fisiung expedition is just around the comer. Jack doesn't have a chance this year in our competition for the biggest and best fish. 
ED HEALY finally broke down and sent in his regular 12-year report Ed is living in Dallas with wife Pat his freshman flame, and five little Healys. Ed is with Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Co. Ed reports GENE MUHLHERR and his wife Josie have four children and in Houston, Gene is with Geophysical Service Inc. JIM KIWUS is with Univac in Minneapolis and married to Carol and father of four Kiwis. 
ED met up with MARK WATSON In San Francisco at Million Dollar Round Table. ED "KING" COALE is operating his own manufacturing rep. business in Richardson, Tex. Thank you. Ed! 
BILL BAPST. living in CenterviDe, Ohio, married to Suzanne, and have six children. Bill reports he has just been promoted to supt of the Hankins Ctntainer Co.'s CentervUle plant 
REV. DICK HOGAN writes that he now is asst pastor at St Joe's Church, Addison, 
IIL (Joliet Diocese) and wants to hear 
from any of the S7ers in the area. Dick 
advises that the REV. RAY LESCHER is 
working hard in the Human & Interracial 
relations area in Kankakee and is asst 
pastor at St Stan's there. If anyone can 
play a guitar please contact one of 
these men. 

Also from Mrs. Geny Geisler we hear that DR. GERRY GEISLER is now a LCDR in the Navy at Great Lakes and head of Thoracic Surgery. He'U be going to Vietnam in April. They have three sons and No. 4 is due soon. Gerry plans to enter private practice in "70 in Dallas. The Geislers were hosts to DR. FLETCHER MURPHY & wife Judy and new daughter. "Flet" is resident in Internal Med. at U. of Michigan. 
JOE MOCARSia reports from Sherbom, 
Mass. that he has joined Gillette Int'I 
Marketing Dept, Boston, as toiletry prod, 
mgr. for Latin America and Australia. Joe 
inquires about the whereabouts of JOE 
MANZO & BOB BINDER. Report 
in, Joe & Bob. 
TOM GUILFOILE reports from the 
Fond du Lac area that he has heard from 
JOHN GLENSKI, Kansas City, who had a 
new addition this year, a son Mark. JIM 
IRVING is living in Fullerton, Calif., 
a subuib of Los Angeles and is with Chevron Oil Field Research. 
CHUCK O'NEILL is with Minnesota 
Mutual Life Insurance Co. in Washington, DC as Reg. Group Mgr. 
MIKE McINTIRE is flying around the countiyside looking for big game in Wyoming. 

Ex-Class pres. DON BARR and family have returned from Paris and Don is attending a mid. mgmt development course at Harvard. 
JOE SKELLY has formed a partnership for the general practice of law in Harrisburg. Joe is also asst counsel to the Pennsylvania Catholic Conference. 
JOE BRENNAN is now director of 
UMWA's Research & Marketing Dept He has a master's from American U. 
Maj. JOHN THOMAS has recently been recognized for helping his unit earn the USAF Outstanding Unit Award. John is in the weather reconnaissance area. 
George W. Groble 
111 W. Washington St Chicago, 111. 60602 
'58 ROVING ENGINEER As is painfully obvious, we have received what may be an all-time low in terms of volume of incoming maiL Since we can't manufacture news, you will have to settle for an abbreviated column. 

ROBERT C. JOHNSON, 905 N. George St, Rome, N.Y. 13440 sends the following summaiy. After two years' Army service from 1958 to 1960, Bob undertook graduate study at MIT and in 1961 went to work for Consolidated Edison in NY as an engineer. From 1963 to 196S he was chief structural en^eer for an architectural firm in Syracuse. Since 1965 he has been chief engineer at the Rome Iron Mills. Bob was married in 1959 to the former Martha Butler and now has four childreii, aged 8, 7, 6, and 2Vi. Bob also reports that he has heard that MIKE GLEASON is on Staten Island. 
RICHARD KWAK wrote us in Apri^ 
forwarding the following news: Dick is still 
in Chicago, his home town, and is an 
accoimt executive with Francis I. DuFont 
& Co. He recently spent some time in NY 
at a business conference and while there 
saw BOB BUSHER, who is in the 
purchasing dept of J. C. Peimey Co. Bob 

will be married in Oct in St Paul, Minn. Dick also reports that DON BAIER is now a partner with Eastman Dillon & Co. The Kwaks now have three dau^ters and a son. JOHN SENG is still with Peoples Gas Co. of Chicago and resides in Hi^and Park. RUSS HOPKINS is living in Skokie and is executive secretary of the National Beer Wholesalers Assn. TOM O'REGAN is practicing law in Chicago, and JIM BERRY is publisher of "Mid-West Landscaping" magazine. JACK FRANKS is a researcher with Sherwin Williams and lives in S. Chicago. Dick Kwak also enclosed a newspaper clipping annoimcing the appointment of RICHARD 
L. SINNOTT as asst to Robert A. Podesta, Asst Secretaiy of Commerce for Economic Development Dick Sinnott at the time of his appointment, was vice-pres. of the Beverly Bank in Chicago, from which position he is on a leave of absence while serving in Washington. 
CARL W. BOZNANSKI has been ap­pointed Los Angeles regional mgr. of PRO Technical Applications, a systems engineering firm. He was formerly an independent consultant 
ED MEELL has been appointed as an 
editor-in-chief in the Text-Film Div. of 
McGraw-HilL Ed has been in Text-Film since 1966. 
JOSEPH F. KNOTT, asst dir. of sales for the Industrial Chemical Div. of PPG Industries, Inc. has been given the responsi­bility for administration and direction of all field sales operations for the div. 
JOHN L. SHEEHY, JR. has been advanced to Disposable Products Sales Development speciaUst of Kendall's Fiber Products Div. 
Arthur L. Roule, Jr. 102 "I" St LaPorte, Ind. 46350. 
'59 INTO THE RANKS After several years of newspaper work in the states and overseas, JIM GRIFFIN joined the ranks of public relations practitioners and enjoyed a three-year stint with Mobil Oil. Since 1967, he's been with IBM, and was recently promoted to senior rep. in the Washington, DC office. Four years ago, Jim took a wife, the former Barbara Anne Hibek of NYC. They have two sons, Gregoiy and Daniel, and a home in Wheaton, Md. Jim sent his best to JIM COONEY, "everyone's favorite Henry Higgins." PAUL QUINN's "roU call" is: Shannon (8), Stephen (6), Christopher (5) and Dou^as (3Vi). Paul is now dbtrict sales mgr. for Anaconda Metal Hose, and lives in Downers Grove, III. 
LORAN D. SCHONBACHLER, 2108 Belmont Ave., Joliet, has been named a partner and stockholder in the firm of Gerding, Wardnim and Richards, Inc., aidiitects, engineeis and planners. Loran and Virginia have two dau^teis, Denise and Karen. Loran's father passed away Jan. 16 and the sympathy of the Class is extended to the Schonbachlers. DAVE AMIDON, LCDR, USN, had a pleasant reunion with REV. PELTON CSC on the steps of St Peter's, Rome. Another surprise was a meeting with VASCO FERNANDEZ from Poona, India whom Dave knew during Campus days. Dave's home base tenitoiy is Brunswick, Me. 
HARRY RYAN is in sales, Calgon & Co., dir. of Merck & Co. covering the NYC, NJ. and Conn, areas. Harry married Sandra Rieger, Gladwyne, Pa. in '63 and now practices his tonsorial art on Kenneth (5), Michael (4) and John (9 mos). PAUL HESSION was the Ryans' next door nei^bor, imtil his recentreturn to the DC area where Paul is with AT&T Long Lines. 
DAVID A. HOSINSKI has been elected a senior trust officer of the St Joseph Bank and Trust Co. of South Bend. DAVID J. O'CONNOR has been appointed mgr. of technical operations for Intl Tele­computer Network Corp., Bethesda, Md. David and Pat have four daughters and one son. DUANE H. STRAIGHT is presently teaching and coaching at Robbins-dale (Minn.) Sr. HS in the Minneapolis subuib. BOB KILL has been promoted to the newly-created position of mgr. of new product planning of Beatrice Foods. DONALD F. X. GERNE was named president of IBM's Govt, Education and Medcial (GEM) natl sales meeting held in Miami, Fla. in Mareh. Don is a marketing lep. in Cranford, NJ 
W. ROY WESSEL is stiU woridng for Argonne Natl Laboratory as an applied mathematician. Roy was on C^ampus March 19 to give a colloquium in the Mechanical Engr. Dept, on his woric JACK McGRATH was also a recent Campus lecturer in the MBA program, and phoned to report on PHIL KILKEARY, PAUL ANDERSON, and Cleveland's PHIL MILLER. Jack gave expanded reports on these men earlier this month at the reunioa. and also anounced the birth of his third child, a son "Jay." 
JOE "VILLAGER" SCHAEFER was not able to make it to the Reunion, but he, Maiy and their two sons will be coming in September after spending the past three years in Wiesbaden, Germany with the Air Force Management Engineering Program. Joe has been with USAF since 1960. Julie Cross writes that MIKE is completing his leadency in Internal Medicine at the U. of Colo. Med. Center. He is beginning his own practice this month in Green Bay, Wise. Mike and Julie are the parents of Michael (4Vi), Andrew (3) and Molly (IVi). 
KNUTE CAVANAUGH attended the Reunion, announcing the welcoming of son ninnber two, Kevin Clifford, Jan. 10. July 1 die Cavanaugb clan will arrive in Salt Lake Oty vrhere Knute will be completing his residency at Shriner's Hosp. for Crippled Children. 
Joseph P. Mulligan Admissions Office Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 'CO KINGING THE BELLS 
Plan your 1970 vacation for June in 
beautiful downtown South Bend, Ind. Here 
come the sun! Hopefully, also the Chicago 
Cubs. First the bad news: JOHN CAR­
RETTA married Maureen Daly (sec.—have 
to admit those Italians have good taste!) 
Dec. 28. Spent a week in the Bahamas and 
a week at Stowe. He notes that JOHN 
SEARS at the age of 29, is Nixon's chief political asst Also, that FRANK FINNI­GAN is a senior at Drake Law School. Con­grats to all three for their varied accomplish­ments. And TED McCOURTNEY writes that he and Tracy, BILL and Carol REILLY, RICH and Ruth GRIFFIN, DICK and Arlene SAPP, ED and Eileen KENNEDY, DON CONDIT and JOE THUMMESS attended GEORGE RICHVALSKY's wedding to Heather Waldorf at St Pat's Cathedral in Dec. 
Business News: BOB MARSCHALL recently joined Henehan, Donovan & Isaacson in Chicago. CHRISTIE S. FLAN­
Dr, In The 

M N FUL L good health to assume the challenges of the Presidency." So stated "The New York Times" and every big and small-town newspaper across the country, Friday, Jan. 3, 1969. And ready to back up this statement was the man to made it DR. JOHN C. LUNGREN "38, Presi­dent Nixon's personal physician since 1960. 
Traditionally the physician assigned to the White House is a doctor from one of the branches of the armed services. But at the request of the President Lungren, the "roving medic," will serve as his medical consultant during his years at the White House. 
Lungren's first contact with Nixon came in 1952. Through the efforts of a mutual friend he was asked to accompany Nixon on his vice presidential campaign in the voluntary capacity of physician for the candidate and tour staff. Since that be­ginning Lungren has continued as a mem­ber of the Republican political entourage through the 1954 congressional campaign and the 1956, 1960 and 1968 presidential campaigns. 
One stop on the campaign trail in 1956 turned out to be a special one for Lungren —a return to the days when he studied medicine but didn't practice. He can vividly remember those days and the visit with the then vice president and his wife on the Notre Dame Campus. The three tourists began with a spirited rally in the old Navy Drill Hall and then proceeded to Cartier Field where the official par^ witnessed a typical ND football practice. 
But the presidential assigtunent is only a AGAN is now associated with Jenkens, 
Anson, Spradley & Gilchrist in Dallas. 
IBM's loss is DEAN WITTER's gain. PAT 
CREADON after seven big ones is training 
in San Francisco and will work in 
Chicago ofGce in June. And Xerox lost 
BILL HICKEY to F. L duPont in Aurora, 
III. He and Janet have Chris, Tom and Danny. JOHN W. McCANN (Leslie— his wife) is back in Wheeling, IIL working for Price-Waterhouse as management consultant FRED O'CONNOR, Pat and Kelly are in Kansas City with Electronic Data Systems, along with RAY MATURI, who is the branch office mgr. 
Long, long note from NOEL DAY (Judy, Eddie and Lynne). Left three years in Alaska for Warm Springs Indian Reserva­tion in Oregon. He got a mountain goat head and rug before leaving. Judy is looking for tested goat meat recipes! They are two hours from Portland and have excellent recreation facilities all around them. Just beginning to appreciate the things 
^House^ 
sidelight in Lungren's life. A great deal of the internist's and cardiologist's time is spent at Memorial Hospital in Long Beach, Calif, where he is chief of staff. The community-supported institution so impressed President Nixon, in fact that following one of his checkups he delivered a ten-minute tribute to citizen initiative, private health facil­ities and local control of public services. 
Lungren can truly be called a "Cali­fornia man" since most of his years from 1942 till the present have been spent amklst the rolling hills and sutmy skies. He first arrived there as an intern at the Los Angeles County General Hospital. His stay was interrupted though by his country's call and World War II, and Lungren left the sunny skies for a tour of duty in the ETO as a battaUon surgeon in the infantry. 
But after his discarge the Golden Gate state still remained a favorite and Limgren returned to set up a private practice in Long Beach. Several years later another interruption came, but this time it wasnt necessary to leave his West Coast home, or the country. The good Doctor took up the school routine again as a fellow of the National Heart Institute at the Uni­versity of Southern California School of Medicine. 
A man on the go, Lungren doesn't seem to find quite enough action in the polit­ical and medical life alone. He is also involved in teaching as associate clinical professor of medicine at the UCLA School of Medicine, where he has served on the teaching staff since 1955. In addition he also holds honors as diplomat of the Amer­ican Board of Internal Medicine and a 
which most people take for granted; such as live TV, paved roads, shopping centers, lower grocery bills, fresh milk, direct dialing, etc. Looking to hear from old friends at Box 41<^ Warm Springs, Ore. 97761. 
OUT OF THE BLUE: TED DUDLEY, 
Marianne and Jimmy somewhere about 
San Francisco!? You forgot your return 
address, dummy! (Good officer material!) 
Liz DAY who is merged in a socio­economic Corp. with one JOE, has two giib and school to keep her busy in Cedar Rapids, Iowa while he is asst city attorney. They and LESERS plan a meeting for the MSU game. (Sec—Good! That's the date for the Reum'oa) HENRY "BUD" MENN at the Geisinger Med. Center in Danville, Pa. sends thanks to his premed advisor DR. BALDINGER and a list of these medics: BILL HIRSCHFELD, pediatrics; DICK BILADEAU and PAT SHEEDY. radiology; GREG WALSH, neurology; STEVE KRAUSE, deimatology. 
Dr. Lungren toith a friend. 

fellow of the American College of Physi­cians and the American College of Cardi­ology. 
"Is there a doctor in tiie house?" must be a frequent cry in the Lungren house­hold, especially sitKe there are seven steady inquirers. Two of the clan have followed in Dad's footsteps, at least as far as the choice of colleges goes. Jidm Jr. is a 1966 graduate of ND and Dan received his degree in '68. The next in line may follow them yet Christine win be a senior right across the road—St Mary's—and with the continuing merger, well . . . you never know. 
TOM QUINN a Lt. Comdr. Civfl Engr. Corps Mare Island sub base. Going to naval postgrad school at Monterey. Has two— one of each. Wants to know why architec­ture dept never gets mentioned in ALUMNUS. BILL G. McCOY married Bet^ (Burrows), has two boys after three and half years in Navy conununications in Morocco and DC. Now an agent and broker with McCoy Cattle out of Lan­caster, Pa. and St Paul. RUSTY WILKE sends a nice note to yours truly and adds that number three daughter, and four in all, arrived at Thanksgiving. Congrats, and thanks. Rusty. On the margin of his card KEN BOURGON notes that we can see the world champ Tigers in Detroit this summer and continues these mad rantings in the body! (sec.—Oct. in Chi­cago!) His brother-in-law DAN CONVERSE is state reading consultant for the state of Delaware. He and EUen had number five and have decided to slow down the population explosion. He is an instructional specialist for Livonia, Mich, public schools under a Title Three federal grant. Also notes that MIKE SCHAEFER, Emperor of Cavanaugh, narrowly missed the Cali­fornia legislature but is still on San Diego city council 
NEIL FRAMPTON went to MerriU Lynch in Baltimore after three years with Sears. He and Kathleen have two boys. JOE SCHAMBER still a marine and intends to stay. He and Nancy have four girls. He is soon to return to Vietnam after a tour at supply depot in Albany, Ga. Look up JOHN DRESKA at Long Binh, Joe. And keep your ah, . . . er . . . head down. BILL BOLAND with Trane in Baltimore, as is BOB BECKERLE in DC. 
Fall Reunion: Michigan State, Oct 4, 
1969, Morris Inn, get your tickets now! 
Peace. 
Thomas J. O'Connell 
3350 Everett 
Lake Forest, HI. 
tl A LAW-FUL LIFE Happy Springtime! MIKE KENNEDY and his wife Linda are now living in New Hampton, Iowa. After graduating from Iowa Law School Mike is now in the practice of law and in last fall's elections was elected rep. CAPT. TOM SMITH MD is now in Fort Ord, Calif, after serving in Vietnam for a year. 

BOB CHAW and his wife Cecila and their two boys and daughter are living in Liver­pool, NY. Bob is a project engineer with GE and his brother TERRY is also an engineer with GE. Teny and his wife Phoebe have a boy and girl. DAN ALLEN is working for Computer Applications Inc. as a sr. engineer specialist Dan and bis wife Joyce have three children, Greg, Carl and Amy. They are living in Ridgecrest, Calif. Dan also writes that DICK NEETY is an asst district attorney in San Diego, Calif. He and his wife Eleanor have two chUdren. "SCOOP" SKUPIEN is stiU a special agent for the FBI. He was just transferred from Oklahoma City to Pittsburgh, Pa. The Skupiens had a son last 
October to add to their two daughters. LOUIS NEEB was selected to attend the nation's Industrial College of the Armed Forces in Washington, DC. JOE FINNIGAN has been named mgr. of mer­chandising services for Drexe! Furniture Co. Joe holds a BFA '61 and MA '66 from 

ND. CAPT. BRIAN BRADY was promoted to major in a ceremony on Campus. In 1967 he was assignni as com­mandant of cadets and Freshman Military Science Instructor at ND. JAMES FIORE joined the First Natl. Bank in 1968 and has been elected operations officer of the Madison, Wise. Bank. DAVE WITCHGER has joined Lilly as a sales ttp. in Hays, Kansas. He received his MBA from Indiana U. in 1968 after 4 years in the Navy. TOM RIORDAN has been appointed asst vice pres. in the bond dept US Government Div. of Bankers Trust and Co. He is currently enrolled in the MBA program at NYU. CAL COOK has joined the Computer Installation De­velopment Corp. in Englewood Cliffs, NJ He graduated in math and did advanced work on the NatL Science Foundation Grant at St Peter's and Fordham. 
Gretchen and JERE VANDERVALLE bf now have had their fifth child—all the rest boys. Jere expects to receive his MSME from California State this June. He is still with McDonnell Douglas Astronautics in Huntington Beach. Jere mentioned that RAY McLANE is running a forward hospital unit in Due Cjo in Vietnam while his wife Carol (SMC '61) waits it out in Hawaii with their four little ones. JOHN WILSON after graduation entered 
U. of Illinois and received a PhD in Biochemistiy in '64. While at U. of Illinois John married Sandy Liligdon of Cicero, 
III.
 After one year of postdoctoral work John entered the Army and was stationed at Edgewood Arsenal, Md. He is now an asst prof, of biochemistiy at Michigan State 

U.
 in East Lansing. PETE McGOVERN JAGC, USN after spending two years as an asst legal officer at the US Naval Station in the Philippines and a year at the District Legal Office in San Diego, Calif, has been transferred to attend the seven­teenth advance class of the US Army, Judge Advocate General's Office. Pete is joined by his wife Kathi and sons Brian and Sean. Have a nice spring and keep filling out the cards in the ALUMNUS or drop me a note. 


Bill Henneghan 
30556 Scrivo Dr. Warren, Mich. 48092 
'63 DEGREES A-PLENTY Nice note here from DOUG CANFIELD. Doug earned an MAT at Yale and an MA in English at Johns Hopkins, and win finish bis PhD at Florida under AubrQr Williams. He'll teach next year at UCLA as an asst prof. Doug married Pam CrotQr of South Bend and the dining hall, and has a son five years old. 
JACK HILDEBRAND reports he's raising 
"neither dogs nor children nor fortunes." 
I think he should jom PARLE BLAKE at the English grammar school in Monterey? Seriously, Jack is a quiet, serious medical student at Faculte de Medicine, Universite Libre de Bruxelles, in Bruxelles, Belgique, which means Brussels in English, I guess. Jack would hke to see anybody who lives near Brussels or anybody who conies to visit That address is 124 Rue Van Artevelde, Brussels. 
GENE BLISH will return from Thailand soon, to join Lybrand, Ross Bros, and Montgomeiy CPA's in San Francisco. He's a captain in the AF now. 
PETE PRICE reports his move to Roches­
ter, NY with wife and two children. 
Pete will be a senior financial analyst with 
Xerox Corp. His address will be 6S 
Waterfoid Way, Faiiport, NY 14450. Pete 
served with distinction as an officer in 
the Dearborn ND Qub along with LARRY 
BEAUPRE «4iile he was in Detroit 
Nice note from PETE "THE FATHER" HOURIHAN. Yep, third chfld bom March 31,1969. Whole family is doing fine. Pete is an internal auditor with Western Electric Co. in Kearney, NJ. He also reports that DON and Pat TULLY had another baby girl in February. MIKE REILLY QUIXOTE is still looking for his Lady Dulcinea. That's a great way to put it, Pete! 
JOHN W. NORTON, JR married Margaret Ruggerio, Nov. 7, 1968. He is working for IBM in Kingston, NY 
CAPT. JOHN Q. HALL received the Army Air Medal in Vietnam. He earned it for combat aerial support of ground operations in Vietnam. He also received the Army Commendation medal at the same ceremony. 
JOHN DILLARD DOYLE has been 
selected as one of America's Outstanding 
Young Men for 1969. Good going, John!! 
ROBERT A. BRUTVAN '63, MS '66 has been named director of technical services for Armour-Baldwin Labs in Omaha, Neb. Previous to this he had been a captain in the Army and served as lab. branch chief. Directorate of Biological Operations, Pine Bluff Arsenal, Ark. His present address is 533 So. 118th Street, Omaha, Neb. 68103 irtiere he has "open house" for fellow ND grads. Bob's number two child Catherine Elizabeth was bom in May, 1968. 
A number of people have asked me in notes for addresses. The Alumni office at ND is better equipped than I am to handle this, please. I'd love to provide the info but I just don't have it available, and the University office keeps a file of names, and addresses (for funding purposes, you know). Also, please note this one address: FRANK DICELLO is receiving mail back in Old Greenwich, Conn. 06830, at his 218 Palmer Hill Rd. address while he's overseas. Don't forget to send the yellow information cards. That's it for now, I need more letters! Write, baby!! 
Thomas B. Hotopp 3121 Colonial Way, Apt B Chamblee, Ga. 30341 
%* ADD ONE DENNIS McCRACKEN returned from Vietnam last July and is now working for 
Monsanto Co. in St Louis, Mo. His wife Susan is expecting their second child this summer. 
MICHAEL P. COYLE and his wife, the former Andrea Elizabeth Dickson, are living in San Francisco—^where Michael is interning in surgery at Moffitt Hosp. Also interning is JOHN W. WOLF. John graduated from the U. of Pennsylvania Medical School and is now at York Hosp., Yoric, Pa. This fall John will go to Naval Flight Surgery training, Pensacola, Fla. 
JACK FLYNN graduated from Washington Law School and is now in Saigon as a 
Congrats 
1
f.-iO rj 
W\ 
•-•r./y' 
'^ 

1st LL in the Army. Jack was married in 
'68 to Maria Cosgrove (Trinity '67). 
After law school and serving in VISTA 
PETE BROCCOLETTI is now practicing 
law at Shapiro, Myers and Broccoletti in Norfolk, Va. 
MIKE FORTUNE is in Peoria, III. working as a salesman for Roche Lab. Mike is now the father of three girls. 
JOE McGOWAN has been appointed an assL treasurer in the Metropolitan Dept of Chase Manhattan Bank. He and his wife Becky and their two children recently purchased a home at 10 Incline Place, Matawan, NJ. 
RICHARD A. ERLENBAUGH spent three years teaching and coaching at LaSalle HS in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Dick is now an athletic and recreation director for the Florida Correctional Institution in LowelL He and his wife Patti and their new daughter live in Ocula, Fla. 
Stationed at Clinton-Sherman AFB in Oklahoma is GREG BRADFORD. He was made captain last summer and is going 
^mi 
^S 
VEM 'V'' 
^ff'^'' 
Joseph T. Brennan SJ at­tended ND for three years and then entered the Society of Jesus at Mil­ford, Ohio in 1957. He was ordained May 29 and concelebrated his first public Mass in St. Peter's Church, Rockford, HL , June 1. 
Thomas J. Moloney SJ 
was bom in Los Angeles and attended ND. After graduation he entered the Society in 1958. After ordination June 14 he will pursue graduate study in political science at the U. of Texas in Austin. 
James G. O'Donnell CSC 
earned his bachelor's de­gree from the U. of Port­land in 1959. In 1961 he entered St. Joseph Hall, ND. For the past year he has taught at Notre Dame HS, Niles, III. His Mass of thanksgiving was cele­brated in St. John's parish, Joliet, Montana. 
Riehard P. Zang CSC '61 leceived a bachelor's in Bnsineas Administration before entering the Order. For the past year he served at Sacred Heart parish on Campos prior to his May ordination. 
Joseph N. Carey CSC '62, 

son  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  
Joseph  H.  Carey  of  
Detroit,  Mich,  entered  

Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn, after his graduation from ND. Prior to his May ordina­tion he taught at St. Joseph HS in South Bend. 
Kenneth J. Maley CSC '64 of Chumbnsco, Ind. did his first year of theology at Catholic University, Santiago, Chile. He has worked with the Christian Family Movement in South Bend and spent a summer in parish work in Austin, Tex. prior to his May ordination. 

to Guam with SAC for six months. He and 
his wife had a baby girl last December. 
MICHAEL J. WALUSIS received his MFA degree at Ohio State U. and is now an instructor at Youn^town State U. in the Fine Arts Dept Mike married his favorite student in March, the former Dianne Marlow. He will present a one-man art exhibition at the Jewish Community Center in Youngstown, Ohio. 
DONALD J. KURTH JR is in his last year of the School of Medicine and Surgery at the U. of Bologna in Italy. 
After two years of Army life and a summer of camping through Europe, Karen and FRANK CORRADO have settled in Chicago. Frank is on the news assignment desk at WBBM-TV (CBS) in Chi town. He and Karen are awaiting the birth of their first child around Reunion time in early June. 
JAMES A. COGLIANESE graduated "Cum Laude" from Loyola's School of Den­tistry and was valedictorian of his class. He is now attending Loyola's School of Orthodontics. James received a grant from the US Public Health Service, Washington DC for three years of lesearch at Loyola. 
He has also been married for one year. 
TIMOTHY J. MORIARTY b working for Moriarty Mrg. Co, Kenosha, Wis. (Drapery Hardware Maker). Tim and his wife Judi spent a month touring South America last fall, but their traveling has been curtailed temporarily with the arrival of a new baby. The Moiiaitys live in Atlanta, Ga. Hm is in charge of a five-state area for MoiiarQr Mfg. Co. in the Southeast 
Lt MIKE MULLANE returned home in February after a second tour in Vietnam. Mike was a pilot aboard the USS Hancock. Mike is married to the former Kathy O'Brien and they have one dau^ter, Kelly Ann. 
Clay Stephens 206 Marian Ave. Fanwood, NJ 07023 
tS CONGKATS nrOUD PASENTS CAFT. NEWT LESH is the father of a baby girl, Kathleen Cecilia, bom to wife, Teny, in November. Newt is attending a nine­
Congrats 

William N. Matthews CSC '65 was ordained April 12 in his home town, Waco, Tex. by Bishop Louis J. Reicher. He enrolled at ND in 1960 and entered the Holy Cross Fathers a year later. For the past year he has been a deacon in Holy Cross parish. South. Bend. 
Leonard J. Collins CSC '65, nephew of Rev. A. Leonard Collins CSC, joined the Holy Cross Fathers at ND in 1960. He has worked a year with the black community at St. Augustine's parish in South Bend. His first solemn Mass was April 27 in Kevere, Mass. 
Richard J. Conyers CSC '65 of Round Lake, El. entered Holy Cross Sem­inary HS in 1956. He earned a master's in theology from Holy Cross College and prior to his May ordina­tion served as deacon in Little Flower palish, South Bend. 
John J. Fitzgerald CSC '65, of Park Ridge, El. entered St. Joseph Semi­nary, ND, in 1960. He has done graduate work in music at Catholic University and taught at St. Joseph HS, South Bend prior to his May ordination. 
Thomas P. King CSC '65 of Deerfield, 

111. has done graduate study in history and education at ND. Prior to his May ordination he had parish ex­ptrience in Raymond, Miss, and part-time teaching at Holy Cross Academy, Kensington, Md. 
Brian C. Keating CSC '65 of St. John, New Brunswick will be ordained June 21 for the Anglo-Canadian Province. After entering the Holy Cross Fathers he came to ND for his undergraduate work. For the past year he has been teaching at St. Joseph HS, South Bend. 
m 

month ordnance career course at Aberdeen 
Proving Grounds. LT. AL BYRNE 
is stationed with a Seabee detachment in 
Massachusetts and 1st LT. JOE BUCOLO 
is with the S87th Signal Co. in Cu Chi, 
Vietnain. In November Joe's wife Cille 
(SMC '65) presented him with a son 
Joseph Anthony Francis. 
GROVER NIX received bis JD from Harvard Law School last June and was sub­sequently admitted to Massachusetts Bar Assoc Grover has just completed active duty with the Army reserve and is con­templating a move back to California. BILL KRIER has earned an MA in American culture at Michigan U. and this June will receive his PhD in English from In­diana U. in preparation for joining the ND English depL in September. Bill and wife Jeanne have a daughter Sarah Caitlin, bom in 1967. 
After one and a half years in Rome at the CoUegio de Santa Ctoce BILL KHARNS returned home and to the layman's life. Bill worked as a probation officer before the draft caught him and in the interim was married to Carol Grace in Downey, Calif, in 1967. Now he is stationed in Darmstadt, Germany with the S47th Engineer Co. In December Bill was again in Rome for the ordinations of three '65 classmates: HENRY ZYCH CSC and BILL and JIM MUL­LIGAN CSC. After his tour of duty in Vietnam where he was awarded the Bronze Star, CAPT. JOHN PESTKA is now stationed at Wright-Patterson AFB. CHARLES DUNN is at George Washington 
U. Law School after completing his Navy duty aboard a Pacific fleet oiler. Charles was married in August to Sandra Destreich in Los Angeles. 
DAN MORELLO's wife gave birth to their 
first child. Amy Margaret, in January. 
Dan graduates from Georgetown U. Med­
ical School in June and will be taking 
a surgical internship. Since his release from 
the Navy PAUL RAY has been working 
as a family securiQr analyst with Met­
ropolitan Life Insurance Co. in Warren, 
Mich, and has purchased a home in RoseviUe, Mich. TOM FELLRATH re­ceived his MBA in December from U. of Michigan and is now on the audit staff of Arthur Anderson. Tom and wife Ann 
are the proud parents of James Francis as of last November. LT. Qg) TOM FRANCK married Salli Feldmann in Binghamton, NY in 1966 and entered Naval OCS. Tom is now materiel director at the Naval Supply Center, Cheatham Annex, in S/H­lianuburg, Va. and has one son, T. R., Jr. Tom writes that BOB ZIELSDORF and wife, Fran, have two daughters and CHUCK. WATSON and his wife Ann have three sons. Also helping with population explosion is STEVE HESTER and his wife Dot who had a girl, Laura Suzanne, in August Steve has completed his Army duty and is now in field contact work with GMC truck and coach in Pontiac, Mich. 
JACK CSHEA was presented last October with a dau^ter Laura Arme by wife Eileen. Jack also has a son Tonuny and is still with the Chase Manhattan Bank in Manhattan. Another October birth was that of Scott Leonard to LEN SERAPHIN and wife Sue. Len received his LLB tzom Northwestern Law School last June, was admitted to the Illinois Bar and is presently practicing law in Aurora. 
After receiving a master's in journalism from Northwestern U. in 1966, JIM BERBERET was married and began teach* ing at a Chicago suburban high schooL Last September Jim moved to Freeport, lU. where he now teaches English composition and journalism at Highland Communis College. In addition Jim handles all of the college's public relations functions. MIKE BELLOLI received an MBA from St Louis 
U. in February and is a sales engineer with Graham Equipment Co. in St Louis. His wife Carol gave birth to their second son last April. RICHARD GRITTA is working for a DBA in finance at the U. of Maiyland. Dick is married to the former Nancy Malone and has a son Jeffrey David. 
In June I will be graduating from Ohio State Medical School. My wife Kathy and I will move to Atlanta, Ga., where June 24 I am scheduled to begin a straight medical internship at Grady Memorial Hosp. Please note the change of address for future class correspondence. 
James P. Hamisch, MD 
Apt 98, 3700 Buford Highway 
Atlanta, Ga. 30329 
'66 SCHOOL DAYS ARE OVER School years have finally ended for many of us '66-ers who have completed our three years of law school. Now all we have to worry about is passing our respective bar examinations. Graduating with me from Loyola U. School of Law are '66ers PETE CAREY, GORDON NASH and JOE ROMANO. Graduating from Northwestern Law School, also in Chicago, were BARRY McNAMARA, JIM MURRAY and JAMIE TOOHEY. TERRY NORTON is getUng his 
J.D. Degree from DePaul Law School where he is on the Dean's List and working on the Law Review. ROBERT J. KENNEDY of Bengal Bout fame, graduated from Illinois Law School in the upper IS percent of his class. J. NEAL GARDNER who graduated from Georgetown Law School was married last December in Cincinnati, Ohio. RUSS LOVELL, graduated from Nebraska Law School in May and has accepted a Law Clerkship with Judge Floyd R. Gibson, US Court of Appeals, 8th Circuit Russ is also the proud father of a little giri. BOB EDLER, STEVE SMITH, DENNY O'CONNELL and DENNY OTOOLE were all graduated from St Louis U. Law School and are now preparing for the Missouri bar exam. JERRY MAHONEY is graduating from Syracuse U. Law School. At Syracuse, Jerry served as a member of the Dean of Men's Staff, was one-half of Syracuse's International Moot Court Team and as Articles Editor of the "Syracuse Law Review." HENRY CATENACCI, who recently celebrated his first anniversary with his lovely wife. Chipper, graduated from ND's Law School. 
Others who have received degrees are DAVE KOCH who received his master's degree in civil engineering at the U. of Washington, and BILL HIGHTER who finished his master's degree in civil engineering at Purdue. DOUGLAS BECKER received his MS from Purdue in January, 1968 and now he and his wife are at Wright Patterson AFB where he is a 
1st L t TOM REEDY, MIKE GROHMAN, and BERN HERBENICK each received an MSE from the U. of Pennsylvania, and each also graduated from the Space Technology Engineering Program at General Electric's Space Center in Valley Forge, Pa. All three also plan to pursue MBA's at the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce. LOU SHARP was married last June and he and his wife are both continuing their educations on the West Coast Lou is at Caltech working on his PhD while his wife, Pat, is at USC working on her MA. LEONARD BELCORE is back at ND working on bis MBA, 
Since June is the month for weddings I would like to mention some of those weddings of our classmates that have not been mentioned here previously. CAPPY GAGNON was married in Florida last March. CARTER R. WINTERBOTTOM was married last August He and his wife, Eileen, moved to Honolulu where they are both teaching. KEN MAHIEU will many June 7 to a fellow student from Columbia's Graduate Business School. CHRISTOPHER MEAD, who recently returned from a tour of duty in Vietnam with the 1st Marine Air Wing, was married Feb. 1. He and wife, Janice, will be taking up residence on the \Vest Coast in the Marine Corps base at Camp Pendleton, Calif. JOHN M. GEIST was married last June at Sacred Heart Church. '66ers LAWRENCE R. WAUGH, JR., JOHN KLIER, STEPHEN L. ODGERS and ROBERT F. KRAUSE were all present at the wedding. The groom has received his master's in electrical engineering from ND and hopes to take his doctorate before entering the Navy. 
DON BOUFFARD, married last August at Sacred Heart Church, is to be congratulated on his new position as Ticket Manager at ND. 
PAT KELLY got his 
M.F.A. from the theatre dept of Southern Methodist U. and is now director of the University Theatre for the U. of Dallas. Pat was married last December to a fellow teacher in the drama dept and he and his wife are headed for a summer of European hitch-hiking. 
1 was deeply grieved to hear of the deaths of our classmates, MICHAEL HARLAN and JOHN MOORE. The loss of those as dear to us as these classmates is a difficult event to accept. My sincerest condolences to their families and my hopes that they will find some consolation in the assurance that They will always be remembered in our thoughts and prayers. 
Richard H. Angelotti 8640 S. 86th Ave., Apt 203 Justice, III. 60458 
A BRAVE KEVIN We were deeply grieved to learn of the death of KEVIN J. BURKE. Kevin died in Vietnam from wounds he received in action Nov. 20, 1968. As a result of the valor and heroism which he portrayed in that action, Kevin was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross, the Bronze Star, the Purple Heart, and the Combat Infantryman Badge. On behalf of the class of '67 we would like to extend our belated sympathy to his family. His presence will be deeply missed. 
'67 
We have received a great deal of mail from die military during the last few months. STEVE LOCKE was scheduled to complete his tour in Vietnam by May S and is definitely "SHORT" by now. Steve writes that he has run into a number of our classmates in Vietnam. JOHN CAYCE has been there serving as an artillery officer. 
Steve mentioned that he had seen STU BELL on his return from Japan; Stu had been in Japan convalescing from malaria which he had picked up his first mondi in the Orient; he is now serving as an armor officer with the 1st Cav. CHUCK RISHELL and TOM KNEPPER ate also there; Chuck is with the 11th Marines in the I Corps, while Tom is an armor officer with the 11th ARC. 2nd L t STEVE MOORE has been awarded a Bronze Star with combat "V" and a Purple Heart for action he saw late last summer. 
We recently received a card from our illustrious Vice President Jim PurceU. Jim is a 1st L t in the Army Signal Corps and is assigned to an Autodin terminal in Nha Trang. On Jan. 19 Jim and his wife Patricia had a 9 lb. 1 oz. baby boy whom they named James Lynch PurceU! Jim writes that his old roommate and his son's namesake, JIM LYNCH, and his wife Georgia were blessed with the birth of a daughter Meagan on Nov. 28. Congratulations to both couples! 
The engagement of DICK KINNEY to Miss Maiy Lou Seidl of San Mateo, Calif, was announced recently. Dick is presently serving aboard an amphibious landing ship in Vietnam. 
We recently received correspondence from 
TOM SOUCY. Tom is now workmg with 
Hilleaty & Partners Ltd., a growing 
franch^g enterprise which originated out 
of the St Louis area. Tom was quite 
enthusiastic about his position in the 
company, but, not leaving any stone 
unturned, he will also be attending law 
school at St Louis U. 
Congrattdations to Jean and CHARLIE 
HUNCKLER on the birth of their second 
child. Charlie is an engineer with General 
Electric in Cincinnati, Ohio while working 
toward his MS through a GE-U. of 
Cincmnati program. 
DAVE GREENE was recently married to 
Kathleen Maty Walsh, SMC '68. Both ate 
teaching assistants at the U. of Kentucky. 
Dave is working in the chemistry dept, 
while his wife is working toward her 
graduate degree in Spanish. 
TOM CALDWELL is stationed at Fort Leavenworth, Kan. Last summer Tom married Susan ShouvUn, SMC '68 and they are expecting the birth of their first child this June. 
John J. Hu^es 99 W. 37Ui St Bayonne, NJ 07002 
'61L THEN UNCLE SAM CAIXED 
Status Report: CAPT. H. GREGORY NASKY has completed one year of a four-year hitch with Army JAG. He's been stationed at Fort Lee and Charlottesville, Va. and is presently at Fort Polk, La. His next assignment is at the office of the Staff Judge Advocate, XXIV Corps, APO 96308. Nasky was enjoying a very successful general practice in Warren, Pa. when Uncle Sam recruited him. He and Roseanne will celebrate their second wedding anniversary July 22. Setting the Record Straight: FRANK CIHLAR is an asst prof of law but at the 
U. of St Louis School of Law and not ND. As reported earlier, he received his LLM at Yale and then collaborated on Prof. Bittkers' new book on income taxation. 
Frank's name reputedly appears on the flyleaf. He is presently teaching tax and contract courses. Last December, while traveling through New Orleans, Frank was going to drop in on BOB BARKLEY but relying on the errant nmior of Bob's impen(Ung marriage, decided to scratch his plans for a night on the town with good ole Bob. Sony, but you can't believe eveiything you read, professor. 
Once again, the prolific "SNOOPER" JACK COUCH has dropped me a line. He is suffering through his enlistment, presently anchored in Pearl Harbor where he and four other oflncers are renting a mansion on one of the islands. It helps take their minds off the war. 
Good Grief! It's been two years since graduation and although we took pride in our close-knit class I still haven't heard from some of you. Now's your opportunity. Tear out the enclosed yellow card; my address is at the bottom of the column. Your address, employment, wife's name and children are news. 
James C. Heinhold 
34 Wall St 
Norwalk, Conn. 06850 

't» MORE ND BRIDES Your class secretaiy is now stationed at Ft Sill, Okla. Here's the news from the fellows: Congratulations are in order. ROGER GUERIN has announced his en­gagement to Jean Hennessy, with an Aug. 16 wedding planned. Presently attending the U. of Illinois Law School. JOE DIVER was recently married to Jane Hilton. WILLIAM RUSSO married Miss Martha Louise Hess (SMC "68) on Aug. 31, 1968. RICHARD POLITI married the former Miss Doreen Donnelly Oct, 1968. Rich is presently employed by IBM as a marketing rep. THOMAS KRULL is to be married May 17, 1969 to Melissa Ann Chism of Missouri. They will reside in St Louis, Mo. Tom is employed as an actuary for the General American Life Insurance Co. of that city. DOUGLASS LUBBERS is going to be best man. MICHAEL CARROL is engaged to Judy Zelesnik a graduate of SMC. Mike is employed by Boeing in Seattle. DANIEL KIMBALL is married to the former Lynn Porto. He has finished Naval Supply School and has been shipped to the Mediterranean. 
EDMON-D COUTURIER has been gradu­ated from AF Technical School, Lowry AFB, Colo. RANDALL C. MELZER has been graduated at Kessler AFB, Miss., from the training course for AF radio operators. He has been assigned to Viemam for duty with the Pacific Air 
Forces. GERALD FOLLMER is the one-
millionth soldier to receive armored training at Ft Knox and is being singled out for special honors. He is now at OCS in Ft Benning, Ga. JOHN H. PHILLIPS has 
been commissioned a 2nd Lt in the AF. He is now headed to Randolph AFB for pilot training. ROBERT J. MAY JR has been commissioned a 2nd Lt in the AF. He has been assigned to Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio for duty. JAMES R. McKIRCHY was married March 22 to the former Miss Paula Spicciate. He is presently serving in the US Army and is stationed in Berlin. JOSEPH G. BLAKE was commissioned a 2nd Lt in the US Marine Corps, April 18. 
He will continue his training at the Basic School, Marine Corps Base, Quantico, Virginia. MIKE BROWNING, JEFF KEYES and PAT COLLINS are in Washington, DC. DAVE CAMERON is serving Uncle Sam at Fort Benning's Infantry OCS untU September. JIM HOKE is engaged to Maty Rodigio of SMC. They will be married at ND June 7, 19fi9. Jim is now with Winters National Bank in Dayton, Ohio. 
PAUL RAMSEY is teaching at St Joe's HS, Saginaw, Mich. JOHN VENHOFF is now attending Armor Officers Basic at Foit Knox, Ky. PAUL STULAGIATAS was elected president of the MBA Assn. here at Wharton, Pa. PHILIP RATHWEG is presently at the Wharton School of Finance and became engaged Feb. 14 to Miss Ccrolyn Bucklew. Wedding bells Aug. 9. Army Pvt WALTER E. MIXHAS JR completed the basic field artillery (Cannoneer) course at Ft Sill, Okla. Air­man CHARLES L. VEHORN, JR. has completed basic training at Lackland AFB, Texas and has been assigned to Good-fellow AFB Texas for training as a com­munications analysis specialist Ainnan RICHARD L. REDDY has completed basic training at Lackland AFB, Tex. and has been assigned to a imit of the Strategic Air Command at Barlodale AFB, La. for training and duty in accounting and finance. Now a look at our classmates in the business world: PAUL VATTEROTT is teaching high school in St Louis. MICHAEL STEPHAN is working for McDonnell-Douglas in St Louis. JAMES DRUCKENBROD is attending St Louis U. Medical ScbooL DOUGLASS LUBBERS is in graduate school Aero-Eng. at Georgia Tech. Mr. and Mrs. RONALD KURTZ are living in NY while Ron is attending Columbia U., now in second term. Ron enlisted in the US Army Reserve 349th Surgical Hosp. Unit NYC, and will be trained as an operating room specialist That's it 
Leonard J. Pellecchia 311 Mt Prospect Ave. Newark, NJ 

'«8L NOT A BAD LIFE JOHN SCRIPP writes that he. Sue and Jane are all healthy and happy out in Portland. Jane is getting bigger and more active every day. As clerk to Judge Kilkenny, he and his family have been doing quite a bit of traveling. First it was to Florida where John almost got to see MELVIN BELLI ("who looked like a Brazilian coffee magnate") perform. Unfortunately the case finally wound up before another judge. Then it was to San Diego. Not a bad life—these clerks. On the way back to Portland from Florida, John stopped off in Chicago where he saw BILL COLEMAN "briefly." Bill is now happily married and thoroughly enjoying his work with Judge Kiley. After his clerkship. Bill will go to work for BOB WILCZEK's former firm. JACK SANDNER is doing criminal law work in Chicago and really hustling (no pan intended). He and LOU BIANCHI are located in the same building and get together quite a bit Lou is doing persond injury work and liking it John is uncertain about his plans after his clerkship. He is thinking strongly about heading back to die midwest or east to do legal aid-type work. We can all breathe a lot easier now. PETE KING has completed his tour of active duty and is back in NY safe and soimd after being "killed" four times during various "enemy" attacks while at Fort Ord (once by machine gun fire when he failed to get out of bed during an assault—^I kid you not). Pete was able to take exactly one day off after returning from California before Roy Cohn himself was on the phone telling him to get back to work. Since then Rosemary has seen less of Pete than she did while he was in the service (or so it seems). Though lidiculously busy, he Is really enjoying the work, practically living in the courtroom. The only problem is that the judges are already beginning to see through his act 
Reliable reports have it that TOM CURTIN and DICK MANNING are benning to feel pressure from their respective draft boards. COme on in fellas, the water's fine. There is a very good chance LANNY BONENBERGER wiU be heading to DC soon. He has been offered the position of office mgr. for his congressman. The first of the class's political careers may soon be launched. LARRY MILLER writes that he, Kathy and Erin are doing fine in NJ. Erin is supposedly getting spoiled by her mother and grandparents. Larry is the strict one in the family—ha. That's it for now. There are a lot of people who haven't been heard from yet All it takes is a few lines on a postcard. 
Dennis C. Thelen 
lea Uberty St, Apt B 
Newport, RI 
FACULTY FOLLOW-UPS 
As members of the faculty and adminis­tration travel around the country. Alumni frequently ask about the where­abouts and activities of teachers and administrators, both clerical and lay, they had known in their student days. In the hope of answering such questions the ALUMNUS introduces this column by Fr. John Wilson CSC. The concentration will be chiefly on people who were at the University at one time and are now elsewhere or retired, or having been elsewhere for a while have now returned. And to avoid the "generation gap" an attempt will be made each time to highlight persons of different eras. 
REV. CHARLES DOREMUS CSC, '06, at 87 the oldest Holy Cross priest in the coimtry, though long ago retired from teaching, resides in Corby Hall on Campus. He was one of the best known teachers of French and prefects in his tours of duty at ND, first from his ordination in 1910 to 1924 and then again from 1926 to 1948. Other assignments in between and since have iiKluded teaching at the U. of Portland and assistant at Sacred Heart parish. New Orleans. Since 1949 he has been back on Campus first as chaplain at tilie Commimity House and then confessor in the seminaiy and in Sacred Heart Church. As he moves about the Campus, his eyes are still bright and smiling and he's still very much interested in everything pertaining to ND. Once qiute a traveler about the country to visit his former students (many of whom he married and whose children he baptized), he still delights in flie occasional visits with his "boys" of the '20s, '30s, and '40s who drop in to see him. Another "old-timer" is REV. CORNELIUS ON RECORD 
(CON) HAGERTY CSC '06, who this June celebrates the 60th anniversary of his ordination to the priesthood. Though several years younger than Father Doremus, he was ordained one year earlier. Father Hagerty has been handicapped by arthritis in recent years and has lived in Holy Cross House (the CSC community iniirmaiy) since 1962. His philosophy students during bis several assignments at ND (1911-21 and in the mid-twenties, the late thirties and early forties) remember him as a staunch and brilliant Tbomist These days he is as staunch as ever and still turns out essays and booklets on apologetics, dogmatic theology, the Church and other subjects. In lieu of a Christmas card, he usually sends out a treatise of some sort to his friends. After leaving ND in 1921 he taught at the U. of Portland and later at St. Edward's U. in Austin, Tex. For 13 years (1946-59) and again for the year 1961-62, he was chaplain for the student brothers in Dujarie Hall, ND, while teaching them apologetics and 
dogma. 
REV. LEONARD COLLINS CSC, '38, dean of students from 1957 to 1965, is now assistant superior and steward of Holy Cross House, ND. He assists in the running of the house and says he finds his work with the elderly and the sick, the retired and semi-retired, "gratifying and interesting." He is happy with the opportunity to do more reading than other jobs permitted. Before he came to the dean of students office he had had 12 years of seminary work, twice as superior, and a year as chaplain at the Holy Cross Brothers' St Edward's HS in Cleveland. In 1965 he was assigned to establish the Holy Cross Fathers' House of Studies in New Orleans, a project he had just about completed in time for the arrival of the first batch of seminarians when Hurricane "Betsy" hit— the city and the home. Extensive damage forced a three-week postponement of the opening of the house and the beginning of classes at nearby Loyola U. Things went more smoothly after that and Father Collins says he enjoyed his time in New Orleans very much: the city, the people, his work with the students in pre­paring them for entry into the novitiate, and the opportunity to serve in a parish on weekends. 
REV. GEORGE BERNARD CSC '45 was vice pres. for student affairs from 1958 to 1961 and before that had taught theology at ND following his 1949 ordination and several years of graduate study. After leav­ing ND he was religious superior and president of Holy Cross Col. (the Holy Cross Fathers' theological seminary) in Washing­ton, DC, for seven years. Last summer he was given a sabbatical year for study, "to catch up with the theological ideas in my field and to re-tool for re­cntrance into the classroom." The project hasn't turned out quite as planned: after three months at the Jesuit Bellarmine School of Theology, North Aurora, 111., Father Bernard answered an urgent plea from St Bede Abbey, Peru, III., to teach two moral theology courses to the seminarians. He accepted "because help was requested, the courses were in my field of study, and it was a challenge." The post has also helped him to prepare for his assignment next September to the theology department of the U. of Portland in Ore. 
ENGAGEMENTS 
Miss Marge Week to DOUG ZILLIOX '60. Miss Carol J. Hagen to GEORGE Q. EVANS '63. Miss Eileen M. Kelly to JAMES BARRY JR. '67. Miss Joan Waters to WILLIAM DUNFEY '68. Miss Virginia Waters to BRIAN McMAHON '68. Miss Carolyn Bucklew to PHILIP A. RATHWEG '68. Miss Kay Belle Doyle SMC 71 to JAMES J. CONWAY '69. 
MARRIAGE 
Miss Jan Hofmeister to CARL EDMUNDSON '60, April 12. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD N. MARTIN '45, a son, Gregory Christopher, Nov. 15. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT C. FIGEL '49, a daughter, Sharron. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT J. BEK '52, a daughter, Caroline, Feb. 5. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES STABILE '52, a son, Thomas James, Nov. 29. Mr. and Mrs. HUBERT HEICHELHEIM '53, a daughter, March 22. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH B. JOYCE '54, a son, Michael Collins, March 30. Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL J. MAHONEY '54, a daughter, Deirdre Marie, April 3. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT J. ERNST '58, a daughter. May 12. Mr. and Mrs. BILL HICKEY '58, a boy, Patrick Leahy, April 21. Dr. and Mrs. WILLIAM SCANLON '58, a son, Sean Butterfield, March 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND T. BENDER '60, a daughter, Mary Catherine, March 17. Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS JOHN O'BRIEN 
'60, a son, Michael Steven, October 22. Mr. and Mrs. LAMAR DOTTER MA '61, a daughter, Mary Margaret April 17. Mr. and Mrs. FRANK CARVER '64, a boy, Frank Jr., April 18. 
Dr. and Mrs. MATTHEW ALLEN KIENSTRA '64, a son, Matthew AUen, Feb. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN KINTZ '64, a daughter, Larelise, May 13. Lt and Mrs. PHILIP A. DUR '65, a daughter, Courtney Morris, May 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL CONWAY MORELLO '65, a daughter. Amy Margaret January 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. TOM HUMPHREY '66, a boy, Michael Patrick, April 16. Mr. and Mrs. DAVID BASSO '67, a daughter, Melissa Marie, March 3. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM A. NORRETT '67, a son, William Ward, April 17. 
DEATHS 
EUGENE A. KANE '14, Mar. 23. His family survives at 20880 Erie Road, Rocky River, Ohio 44U6. 
CHARLES G. CORCORAN '17, Apr. 10. He is survived by his widow Elmyra of 1801 LoweU Ave., Springfield, 111. 62704. 
SHERMAN MAY '17, April 14. He is survived by his brother Stanley and three sisters, Mrs, Arnold Beezer, Sister Mary, and Miss Lucille May. 
WaLIAM F. WALL '17, Jaju 1. He is survived by his daughter Mrs. William Stier of 1320 MiUihen Court, Traverse City, Mich. 49684. 
RICHARD P. DEVINE '19, May 10, 1967. He is survived by his iridow at 1340 Wilson Ave., Columbus, Ohio 43206 and a daughter, Mrs. Higgins. 
EARL T. O'CONNOR '19, April 28. He is survived by his widow at 2152 South Shore Drive, Erie, Pa., a son Paul and daughter Joyce. 
DR. PAUL D. SCOHELD "20, Feb. 24. He is survived by his family at 1040 Martha Lee Lane, Rock Ledge, Fla. 32955. 
MICHAEL SCHWARZ '21. May Z He retired in 1962 from the US Bureau of Reclamation. Surviving are his widow, two daughters, a brother and two sisters. 
REV. JOSEPH M. BRANNIGAN CSC •23, March 7. ALBERT D. CASTELLINI '24, May 1. A former member of the ND Altmuii Board of Directors, he is survived by his widow at 1321 Edwards Road, Cincinnati, 0.hio 45208 and four sons Richard '54, Thomas '57, Daniel '62, Edward '64 and a daughter Mrs. Frank P. Kiomer all of CincirmatL 
WALTER JOSEPH CYR -25 April 5. He is survived by his widow Alice at 49 Riverside Ave., Stamford, Conn. 06905, two sons, James and Michael Marran and three daughters, Mrs. James Noble, Emily Marran, and Letitia Marran. 
BERNARD J. FLOCK '25, April 20. He is survived by Us widow Irene of 8S711 Modaff Road, Naperville, lU., two daughters, Mrs. Joan Hamilton and Mis. Marilyn McDonald, three sons Donald, Richard, and Bernard. 
Rev. Michael I. Gavin CSC '32 died Monday, May 19 in South Bend's St Joseph's Hospital following a heart attack. He was a fonner president of Portland University and taught in the ND philosophy department since 1960. 
GRADUATE SCHOOLS 
Jerry Neioton, cleaning up in more ways Hum one. 
Everything 
**VmGiN, Wheeler, Mull, Mack and Dock" Sound like a law firm? Wrong. These five names belong to relatives of Jerry D. Newton, graduate student and teaching assistant in art at ND. So what you say. I have realtives too. Well, then dig out the ole photo album, choose an appropriate picture of the family clan, grab a brush, oil paints and canvas and you may come into some extra money soon. 
That's what artist Jerry Newton did, with the added ingredient of talent, merely for lack of another idea. He found a tum-of-the-century photograph of some of his relatives and used them as the subject of his oil painting—an oil painting which 

Is Helative 
received top honors of $1,000 in the 62nd Annual Indiana Artists Exhibi­tion. The prize was given by the Board of Trustees for the most meritorius work in any medium. The Herron Museum of Art in Indianapolis was home for the showing which took place from March 16 through April 13. 
Newton, a native of Bumsville, 

N.C. is a specialist in painting, printmaking and drawing. And he doesn't miss the honors in these categories either. He recently received the drawing prize at the Sixth Biennial Michiana Exhibition at the South Bend Art Center. He is a 1968 graduate of Berea College in Kentucky. 
BIOLOGY 
As of January 1, 1969 Dr. PAUL P. WEINSTEIN, formerly director. Lab. of Parasitic Disuses, Natl. Institutes of Healtb, became chairman of the Dept of Biology. DONALD MULCARE '68 is currendy a postdoctoral fellow with Dr. GEORGE NACE, department of zoology, U. of Michigan. Don and Nancy were joined by their first child Jennifer Ann, April 24. Sr. DOROTHY KLINGELE '68 is applying her knowledge of genetics, particularly human genetics, with the clinical center at the Sacred Heart Medical Center, Spokane, Wash. KEITH HARTBERG '68 is conducting research on mosquito genetics for the World Health Organization in Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania. Dr. G. A. H. MCCLELLAND , postdoctoral research associate, 1965, becomes chief of this project in September, 1969. Capt KERWIN WERNER, US Army, is staUoned at the 
406th Medical Lab., depL of medical zoology in Tokyo, Japan. SATISH BHALLA '66 is associated with the school of international medicine, U. of Maryland, and is studying mosquitoes responsible for transmitting encephalitis in the Orient JOHN F. McCUE '64 is on the faculty at St Cloud State Col. in Minnesota after postdoctoral study in Mexico and Alabama. WILLIAM A. HICKEY '65 is an associate professor of biology at St Mary's Col. Sr. JEAN V. WALLACE CSC '64 is currently a research associate in population studies at the Harvard U. School of Public Health. She is working in the Center for Population Studies. Rev. ENRIQUE SCHOENIG '64 is head of the biology dept, San Carlos U., Cebu City, Philippine Islands. He continues his research on the mosquitoes of the islands. EDWARD BURDEN '63 is doing research with the Lederle Div., American Cyanamid Co. in Peari River, NY. Sr. ALMA LOUISE MESCHER '63 is associate professor of biology and freshman advisor at St Mary-of-the-Woods, Terre Haute. Rev. ROBERT VANDEHEY '61 is on the faculty at St Norberfs Col., West DePere, Wisconsin and is studying the biology of northern mosquito species. CHARLES EHRET '48 is actively engaged in research at the Argonne Lab. and was recently quoted for his research in biotfaydmis in "Scientific Research," a scientific news journal. Sr. MARY GER­ALD LEAHY '62 is a World Health Organization visiting research fellow at Hebrew U., Jerusalem. She is professor of biology at Mount St Mary's CoL, Los Angeles, 
I would appreciate hearing from the graduates of our dept 
Ralph E. Thorson, Acting Chairman Dept of Biology Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
CHEMISTRV Dr. R. G. Sbuhnan of the Bell Telephone Laboratories was a Reilly Lecturer in February. The Nieuwiand Lecturer in May viras Professor Ephraim Katchalski, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rebovath, Israel. Dr. Martinez-Carrion presented a paper at the meeting of the Federation of European Biochetnical Societies in Madrid in ^ril . Also in April Dr. Hamill was a guest lecturer at Loyola U., New Orleans, and Dr. Eliel delivered the Franklin Memorial Lecture at Kansas U. Dr. McCusker is lecturing in Bombay, India in May and Jime. 
TOM KRTVAK completed the requirements for the PhD in January and is with Pittsburgh Plate Glass in Barberton, Ohio. CLARENCE JOHNSON defended his PhD thesis in February. He is teaching at Christian Brothers Col. in Memphis. Rev. JAMES COWGILL SJ '57 was recenUy appointed director of research and institutional development and associate dean of the graduate school at Seattle U. HUGH DURHAM '62 recenUy joined the Udylite Corp., Detroit, as a research associate. BILL ERNER '49 is associate director of Air Products and Chemicals, Allentown, Pa. He was recently elected a fellow of the American Institute of Chemists. JOHN FORTMAN '65 and PAUL SERVE '65 were both promoted to associate professor of chemistry at Wright State U. in Dayton, Ohio. 
Sr. PATRICIA MULLINS '68 recently received a research grant from the Canadian National Research Council and is at the NRC lab in Halifax this summer. Lew Taft writes that BILL VAN DUSEN '61 is at the Bendix Aerospace Lab. near Cape Kennedy. JUAN YGUERABIDE '62 is associated with the Stanford U. Medical Center. His contribution to the research on energy exchange in biological macromolecules was featured in the March 3 "Chemical and Engineering News." How about filling out a yellow card? 
Bro. Columba Curran CSC 
DepL of Chemistry 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
ECONOMICS Apprising alumni and their guests in several eastern and midwestem cities of "The Economic Crisis in Catholic Elementary and Secondary Education" have been Rev. ERNEST BARTELL CSC '53, chairman of the depL of economics, and Rev. Neil G. McCluskey SJ, visiting professor of education. In these discus­sions Father Bartell has brought to bear some of the preliminary results of the several research projects now being under­taken by the dept. Working with Father Bartell on studies for the Denver, St Louis, and Youngstown archdioceses are Professors 
T. R. Swartz and Dennis Dugan. KEN­NETH BROWN AB '61, who is coming from the Brookings Institution to join the ND faculty in September, will also put his background in econometrics and the economics of education to good use in research on these critical problems. Alumni in midwestem and western cities should watch for similar discussions to be held in their areas in the future. Two of the 26 new Phi Beta Kappa members at ND are from the economics dept Recent graduates will no doubt remember the two honorees, James Whalen and John Hickey. 
James Rakowski Dept of Economics Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
EDUCATION Thanks to a few who heeded my plea for more news. The education dept can share with you the activities of some of its alumni. Dr. RALPH R. DOTY MAT '65 sent a beautiful letter from the Col. of St Scholastica, Duluth, where he is asst professor of education and coordinator of secondary education. He obtained his EdD from the U. of Minnesota in 1968, at the same time serving as administrative asst to the Minnesota deputy cormnissioner of education. In addition to teaching he is vice-pres. of the Duluth ConununiQr Action Board and project coordinator for the Developmental Economics Education Program in the Duluth public schools. He and his wife have two children. Grant and Tani Aim. 
JOSEPH H. MAGUIRE JR MA ('00)?. 
presently candidate for a doctorate in the 
dept, was recently appointed chairman of 
the education dept. Col. of the Holy 
Cross, and one of ten laymen named to 
the newly formed advisory coimcil of the 
US Catholic Conference. 
Starting with the fall semester, 1969, the 
dept of education will become the dept. 
of graduate studies in education, a 
component of the Institute for Studies in 
Education which will be headed by Rev. 
NEIL G. McCLUSKEY SJ, its newly designated dean-director. Rev. WILLIAM 
FRIEND is the acting director of the 
Office for Educational Research, another 
Institute component 
Lawrence M. Deno 
529 Memorial Library 
NoUe Dame, Ind. 46556 
ENGLISH In this last column before June commence­ment it is appropriate to report that after 42 years of teaching in the dept of English at ND, Prof. NORBERT ENGELS MA "28 will assume the rank of professor emeritus. The long and distinguished career from which he retires, and the fascinating complexities of his interests and achievements, are well known to his alimmi colleagues, many of whom were also his students. To Prof. Engels we extend warmest congratulations and best wishes. 
We have learned that Sr. ALOYSE CECILE TRAINER SP MA '55 is teaching at Immaculata Col. in Washington, DC. Sr. Aloyse has remained in touch throu^ the ND English Assn. We hope her membership will continue for many years to come. 
WILLIAM A. WEYMEYER PhD 62 was recently elected executive secretary of the newly formed Northeastern Modem Language Assn. Dr. Wehmeyer, who is chairman of the English dept at Saint Bonaventure, was one of the founders of the NY-Pennsylvania MLA and served for two years as its executive secretary. 
A short story by ALISTAIR McLEOD PhD '68, entitied "The Boat," has been 
selected for inclusion in "The Best American Short Stories 1969." Dr. McLeod's story, first published in "The Massachusetts Review," is one of 15 selected as the best stories by American writers published during 1968. Dr. McLeod has been asst professor of English at Indiana U., Fort Wayne, and will move next year to the U. of Windsor in Canada. We congratulate him for this rare distinction and for the rare talent it implies. 
To all alumni, best wishes for a relaxing vacation. 
Edward Vasta Director of Graduate Studies Dept of English 
HISTORY 
ANTHONY BLACK, western henuqihere record holder for grratest peisistence in the writing of doctoral dissertations, win receive his PhD this Jnne. Tony has been a member of the St Mary's Histoiy DepL across Dixie Hwy for many years, llie dissertation is an extensive stndty of an 18th centniy Irish parliament 
WALTER GRAY will become actmg chairman of the history dept at Loyola of Chicago next year. Proverbially, there are no gains without pains: the promotion will mean that Walter will have to postpone plans to spend a year at Loyola's overseas branch in Rome. 
DEAN ESSLINGER is at Towson State 
COL in Baltimore this year. 
ROBERT F. HUESiTON is at Scranton U. Scianton, Pa., this year and will return there next year. 
BERTIL GHEZZI recently defended his 
doctoral dissertation here and will get his 
PhD in June. He is currently at Grand 
Valley State CoL, Allendale, Mich. 
ALBERT HAMILTON, at John CarroU U. in Cleveland, has received a grant from the American Philosophical Socie^ to do sinnmer research in London and Ireland. One of these years all you "big names" will be in Europe at once and there will be nobody left in the USA to teach except the janitors or administratois. A visionary local dean (who shall remain nameless) has assured this writer that in the university of the future there will be neither faculty nor students; only computers and adinin­istrators. Just joking, AL Congratulations! 
It is gratifying to record that now and then someone does recall that universities exist primarily to educate students. 
DAVID FAHEY will leave Indiana Northwest at Gary this year and become associate professor at Miami U. in Oxford, Ohio. David very kindly sent me consider­able information about other recent ND graduates which space does not permit including this time, but which will appear soon. This laudable example should be emulated by other readers (if any) of this column. 
EUGENE TRANI, who received a BA in histoiy from ND in 1961 and is now at So. Illinois U., Carbondale, has provided considerable infoimation about himself and others. Unhaiq>ily this column is concemed only with those who have received graduate degrees bom ND so parties interested in information about BAs will have to look elsewhere in this magazine. 
Bernard Norling DepL of History Notre Dame. Ind. 46556 
LAW SCHOOL The nation's number-one employer of law graduates (whose personnel representative is named after a candy bar) took second place to small-firm practice this year at Notre Dame. 
Twenty-four of 79 new ND lawyers plan to enter the practice of law in small to medium law firms in small to mediiun cities, while 16 graduates will practice with large firms in NYC. Chicago, Cincinnati and Washmgton, D.C.; another five plan to enter corporate legal departments. 
Four graduates will go to work as attorneys for the federal government (non-military) and six will work for local government (all as prosecutors). Six graduates have clerk­ships with federal judges in such diverse places as Oregon, Georgia, and Chicago; two will clerk for state judges in New York and New Jersey. Two graduates do not plan to practice law and two others plan to continue full-time study in other iields. 
Three of the graduates were awarded Reginald Heber Smith fellowships to work in legal-aid oflices. HUGH F. MUNDY, of Pennsylvania, will work next year in Chester, Pa.; GEORGE F. RICE, of New York, will work on Long Island. ARL B. WILLIAMS, of Tennessee, was given a postponed fellow­ship for legal work in Tennessee beginning in 1971. Two other ND lawjers—JAMES K. SECKINGER eSL, and JOHN SCRIPP, 
•68L—received Smith Fellowships this year, and several others are waiting for word on their applications as this is written. RICHARD F. HENNESSEY GSL, and TERRANCE KELLY "eSL, had fellowships this year and will have them again next year. Both expect to work in Denver. 
Mr. Paul Moo, South Bend lawyer and a leader in the national codification of consumer-credit law, will be a part-time teacher in commercial law in the fall. He will teach required third-year courses in the field, and a seminar in consumer crediL 
Mr. William T. Gossetl, president of the American Bar Association, addressed the annual Law Day dinner on Campus May 1. The dinner was co-sponsored by the Student Bar Association and the St- Joseph County Bar Association. Dean Lawless also addressed the evening dinner, as well as a luncheon meeting of the county association. 
Richard Slawson (N.D., Oregon) was elected president of the Student Bar Association. Thomas Sopfco (Xavier, Ohio) is executive vice president; Ted Leo (Providence, NJ.) is treasurer, Henry Ciocca (Canisius, New York) is secretary. Mr. Slawson was inaugurated, by retiring president James J. Barba, as part of the Law Day ceremonies. 
Tom Shaffer '61L Law School Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
PHILOSOPHY 

Although the departmental mailbag would be rather thin if it were filled only with letters from busy philosopher-alumni, we did hear from JOHN HADDOX who is now chairman of the dept. of philosophy at the 
U. of Texas. John is also active in teaching and pubUshing; his latest book, "Vasconcelos of Mexico, Philosopher and Prophet," was published by the U. of Texas Press. 
Also word was received that MAT KELLY 
— is now teaching at So. Illinois U. 

This year has swelled the ranks of PhD alumni with an unusual number of graduates. Five of these have been on the verge of such distinction for a few years, having had to begin their teaching careers before submitting the dissertation. GENE BUCKLEY, Plainfield, NJ; JACK CAHALAN, Worcester, Mass.; CHUCK KELLY, Bronx, NY; GEORGE MARTIN, WJlUamston, Mich, and BILL ZIEGLER, San Francisco, Calif, will be best known to those who graced the campus in the early sixties. BILL BRUENING, Cincinnati, 
3S 
Ohio; DARYL GLICK, Lansing, Mich.; Rev. JOHN McCLUSKEY, Kilmarnock, Ayrshire, Scotland; JOHN McDERMOTT, Denver, Colo, and Sr. JEANNE REIDY, Ottumwa, Iowa finished up while still in residence here. 
At the APA meeting in Cleveland, DON HOLLENHORST, Barat Col., River Forest; TOM SCHARLE, West Virginia U., Morgantown; GEORGE HAMPSCH, John Carroll U., Cleveland; JOE BUCKLEY, John Carroll; and BERNARD GENDREAU, Xavier U., Cincinnati were much in evidence. 
Many alumini will be happy to hear that Professor Joe Evans was honored this spring with the C. E. Shecdy Award for Excellence in Teaching. And in the same vein, Fr. Leo Ward CSC was given the Aquinas Medal which is accorded to veiy outstanding Catholic philosophers from time to time. 
Rev. Charies Weiher CSC '44 Dept. of Philosophy Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
PHYSICS 

The editor says it's that time again, so I guess 1 had better get busy. As has been true for the past several columns, this column also will be devoted to an account of the past and present activities of some of the old-timers, vintage 1950-59. I wonder if our more recent PhD alumni have ever reflected on the employment contact possibilities inherent in this column. (That was the commercial!) Well, anyway, here we go. 
JOHN E. DAVEY '54, physical electronics, wife Joan and two children, Katherine and John, live at 3212 Wessynton Way, Alexandria, Va. 22309. John served with the US Army from 1943-45, and then attended Canisius Col. where he received his BS degree in 1949. After receiving his PhD degree in physics at ND he joined the US Naval Research Lab in 1954 as a research physicist in the Electronics Div. His current position is head of the functional devices section of NRL's Electronics Div. 
PAUL W. KRUSE '54, wife Margaret and eight children, Paul II, Robert, John, Mary, Margaret, Charles, Thomas, and Catherine, live at 6828 Oaklawn Ave., Edina, Minn. 55435. Paul was one of our own under­graduate physics majors, BS physics '51. He joined Famsworth Electronics Co. (now ITT Industrial Laboratories) in Fort Wayne, Ind. in 1954 as a research scientist In 1956 Paul left Famsworth for Honeywell, Inc. Since 1956 he has advanced from senior research scientist to principal research scientist, and more recently to senior staff scientist at Honeywell Corporate Research Center, 500 Washington Ave., South Hopkins, Minn. 55343. Since 1965 he has served as a consultant to the Army Scientific Advisory Panel, and also as a member of the Army Combat Developments Command Scientific Advisory Group. He is also a member of the Defense Orientation Conference Assn., American Ordnance Assn., and Assn. of the US Army. He was the recipient of the H. W. Sweatt Award for Outstanding Scientific Achievement from Honeywell in 1965. Paid is co-author of a well-known standard reference book, "Elements of Infrared Technology," John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 1962 and is a member of the platming committee of the Third 
International Photoconductivity Conference. According to a recent letter from Paul (March 31, 1969), he has also been ap­pointed to a three-year term on the committee of physical sciences of the advisoiy board on military personnel supplies of the National Research CoimciL Keeps reasonably busy, doesn't he? 
Well, the editor says that's all for this time. 
Robert L. Anthony Assistant Chairman Dept. of Physics 
SOCIOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY What with deadline notices sent to an office now seldom used, no departmental column graced the pages of the last two issues. Complaints about its absence have been thunderously silent, which has me wondering about the loyalty of my occasional readers. 
Academic conventions tend to be dreary affairs, unless their locus happens to be San Francisco. One exception to this glittering overgeneralization is the Hoosier Sociological Weekend, a relaxed, informal, intrastate clambake first held in 1968. The weekend is primarily a Big Three (Indiana, Purdue and ND) affair, though participants from such schools as Ball State and Butler are also welcome. Because it is nearly equidistant between Blootm'ngton and South Bend, Purdue's campus was the site of the first two meetings, and a more hospitable setting would be hard to find. Strange as it may seem, however, ND was the official host school for the gathering held March 14-15, 1969. 
The graduate student's involvement in academic conferences of this kind is typically passive to a fault He may listen to some papers, observe his mentors and scholars he has read at work, but apart from the unlikely possibility of presenting a paper of his own at a "student session," he is essentially a quiet spectator. This year's Hoosier Sociological Weekend, in a radical departure from traditional format, had Big Three graduate students playing dominant roles. Papers on "Graduate Student Involvement in Department Decision-Making" written by students from each university were the only papers presented, and their perspectives on this aspect of student-power kcynoted two days of lively discussion. 
Eight students worked on ND's fine contribution. Some viewed this as an exciting venture in joint-authorship; while others, mindful of its criticism of the "system" and the presence of faculty members, regarded it as a thinly veiled ruse to diffuse liability. 
Jim King gave the paper a resolute reading, and Prof. Richard A. Kurtz served as its principal discussant All three papers are slated for publication in a forthcoming issue of our Social Science Training and Research Lab's journal—^"Research Reports in the Social Sciences." Comments on the weekend and the department's host role were overwhelmingly favorable. It was a fitting prelude indeed for our participation in this year's joint meeting of the Ohio Valley and Midwest Sociological Societies. More on that in the next issue. 
Robert H. Vasoli Dept of Sociology Notre Dame, Ind. 465S6 
1,472 PEOPLE . . . plain, simple, unique, complex, precious PEOPLE 
Notre Dame Is People 
It is not just the golden dome, or the grotto, or the library, or the stadium. It is not the tradition, or the image, or the institution. It is people—^plain simple, unique, complex, precious people. Some of the people at Notre Dame are admin­istrators, some are teachers, some are alumni, some are staff, some are young scholars; all are students of varying ages. 
The graduating class of 1969 is both people and Notre Dame simul­taneously. The class reflects the changing times in which we live. It is 1,472 people who have experienced other people and their ideas in the academic community. It would be impossible to stereotype the gradu­ating seniors of Notre Dame in 1969. Each senior has his own uniqueness and his own identity. Each one is Notre Dame in a peculiar sort of way. The following sketches of nine graduates are at­tempts at giving an impression of what the class of 1969 is . . . and what Notre Dame is today. Each man is treated individually, as all people must be treated; but together they give an outline of the identity of Notre Dame ^69. 
The Class of 1969 has weathered many crises at the University in the last four years. Some of them were catalyzed by the Class itself; however, most of them came as a result of the dynamics of the academic and social revolution which is quietly raging throughout America today. This revolution is generally silent, but every now and then it bursts out into the newspapers and across the television screens of America. The conflict comes from an anguished search for meaning and relevance in the modem world and for an end to the man-made injustices and destruction which are so prevalent in ihe world today. Notre Dame is caught up in this struggle, and so is the Class of 1969. 
It makes Notre Dame an exciting place to be in this time of turmoil and change. The reforms in the curriculum, hall life, student life, admissions, ROTC and coedu­cation place Notre Dame at the center of the academic revolution. Advanced studies in the­ology and nonviolence and the student-proposed Robert F. Kennedy Institute symbolize the University's search for a Christian answer to the secular problems of the day. 
Ideally, each student at Notre Dame carries out this search on a personal and individual level. Many of the seniors have done this — each in his own way. The profiles show some of the anguish and frustration of young people im­bued with idealism, but they also show the depth of thought and perception which young men have acquired as the result of an integrated learning experience in the University. 
The Class of 1969 won't change 
the world. It doesn't even hope for such grandiose schemes. But each graduate can commit himself to change, and this will require his being a student for the rest of his life. Notre Dame has given the Class of 1969 the opportunity to experience a genuine Christian comprehen­sion of truth, beauty, mystery and love. Now each senior must put the ingredients together in order to make his own life an expression of the truth and reality which he is able to see by virtue of his feeling and intellect The revolution which Notre Dame teaches is that of the involved and concerned Christian individual. The concern and involvement often tend to be "radically" different from the nor­mal complacency and apathy which smother individual initiative and action. As a "radical Chris­tian," each graduate of Notre Dame must commit his own life to the truth and meaning of Christ's exis­tence. That commitment will be each man's answer to the search which is going on continuously at the University of Notre Dame. The answer, like the University, is people-centered, and each man's answer can significantly change the world. 
—^Michael McCauley '69 

Gene Hammond 
First, take a five-year-old boy and watch him stick his fingers on the hot stove, just to see if it's really hot; watch him trip and fall off his tricycle as he speeds down the sidewalk to join his friends; and listen to him ask a million questions of his mom and dad — questions like "Where do babies come from?" and "What does God look like?" 
OK. Now put fifteen years of maturity on that same little kid and make him twenty-one years old. Give him a slender, lean build to complement a 6'!" height. Then give him a Phi Beta Kappa key and a diploma from the University of Notre Dame which shows that he has graduated "maxima cum laude" with a major in English. Put a Navy uniform on him (he'll only wear it when he has to) and put thoughts of love and marriage in his head when he thinks about the St Mary's girl hell be wedding this autunm. 
Do this and you'll have the basic out­line of Gene Hammond. It is es­sential that you start out with the little boy, because Gene is very much like a little kid who has never lost his sense of wonder and curiosity and amazement at things. He is curi­ous about more serious things than hot stoves and tricycles now, but he still has that Uttle-boy sense of ex­citement about everjrthing he does. Youll find Gene wondering about war and peace, the quality of educa­tion at Notre Dame, the necessity of the military in the contemporary social order, or just simple things like the way the waves pound upon 
the shore at Lake Michigan. He enjoys talking about literature, not only be­cause he has majored in it, but because he feels that authors are most sensitive to human beings and human drama. 
Gene has committed himself to the Navy for five years after his graduation — a commitment he made when the Navy decided to pay for his entire education at Notre Dame. Although he majored in a humani­ties subject. Gene will concentrate on nuclear power in the Navy, as he starts a highly selective program in Washington this June which will train him in nuclear engineering. 
His contract with the Navy has caused Gene much anguish and soul-searching as to whether he can play an active role in the military with good conscience. Although he is against giving academic credit for ROTC, he feels that the military is a necessity for nations — given the reality of the world as it now exists. He is against war and killing, but he is for freedom and justice even more. 
When he isn't thinking about litera­ture or the great questions of modem life, it is safe to assume that Gene's wandering mind has focused on one Miss Kathleen Sweeney, a St. Mary's senior and the future Mrs. Hammond. His voice slows and softens whenever the subject of love comes up in a conversation. His education and his entire period of intellectual and self-development have been directed toward loving and being with a total intensity and completeness. As the oldest of twelve children in a family located in Kenosha, Wisconsin, Gene has ex­perienced an atmosphere of warmth and love all of his life. 
To his close friends in Farley Hall (where he lived for three years prior to moving off campus) and in the Blue Circle, Gene Hammond is a guy who comes across as sincere and strong. He is the quiet type of leader — not the kind to step to the front, but rather one who will be there when you need him. He is steady and consistent. . . you might say he's an "idealist without illusions." 
As for his years at Notre Dame, Gene shrinks in horror when you refer to him as a "Notre Dame man." He doesn't like to be stereotyped. In fact, his biggest criticism of Notre Dame Is that the great expense of tuition prohibits a diversity of stu­dents to come to the University. He feels that Notre Dame is homoge­neous in its student body, which isn't good. He thinks a university should have different and unique people. In spite of this. Gene appreciates Notre Dame for "giving me an opportunity to learn and grow in my own way. Freedom to learn and make mistakes is essential to growth." Somehow, when you think of Gene Hammond, the little boy in him always comes out. 
—^Michael McCauley '69 

Jim Pellegrin 
"Then why did you stay at Notre Dame?" 
"Because I think it has worked for me. I am a human now. I learned how to think here." 
Jim Pellegrin, Cleveland-bom, English major. Phi Beta Kappa and 
Danforth scholar has his own defini­tion of that word think. It leads him in one conversation to rage about the war, the "monarchy" at NO, woric as it alienates man from himself, this one-sex campus, the amoral attitude of today's high school graduates, the desire of all young men to be a faeiD. But no matter what he is raging about Jim comes through as the poet MacLeish demands. Pellegrin "knows the world by heart" 
By heart Jim speaks of the war in terms of his younger Marine brother who writes to Jim to scream from the roofs "war is absurd" . . . and so Jim will spend the next year reading and thinking about the possibility of taking a conscientious objector stand. "I would like to be bee to work in a candy store or on a farm but instead I will teach a senior high school English class in Hammond, Indiana. It frightens me. I may be lonely. But it will give me time to know whether I am ready to die for what is now, to me, an ambiguity." 
By heart Jim writes in the "Observer" articles pushing for a Co-Ed ND. He condemns the "mead hall" mentality of the 7,000 ND men. "And I don't mean just dating. Imagine having a Chaucer discussion with just guys. Even the professor listens for that absent voice." 
Most of all by heart Jim speaks of people: his father with whom he can talk; Professor Matthias who is stirring up real creativity on campus; Virginia Woolf who teaches a guy what sympathy is; and his five or six friends who know what the Little Prince meant by enjoying "little things"—like late evening Pooh Bear readings on the top fioor of Morrissey. 
"Bob Dylan, and nature, and I like insects, and writing is a high human activity" . . . and .. . is Jim just another spinner of dreams? Perhaps. But be wary of a dreamer who spends his sophomore year summer vacation in Bogata, Columbia with a CILA project—carrying pails of water up a rocky hill. Be wary of a dreamer whose senior year has been filled with at least eight full-time occupations— five academic courses, writing, draft decisions, checking out graduate schools, seeking a high school teach­ing position, answering the demands of Woodrow Wilson and Danforth scholarships, and finally "just becom­
ing Jim". 
It's great to hear his estimate of that last occupation. "I am a pretty nice guy. It's a pretty nice world and I'm pleased to be alive." 
—^Meg Zwers 

Steve Moriarty 
If you don't know Steve Moriarty, chances are you won't like him. If you do know him, there's a chance you still won't like him. If you like him, youll probably have an idea why you do, and why others don't 
Steve Moriarty, Notre Dame Class of 

1969, is not by disposition a lovable guy. He is by decision a loving young man. By now he knows that the latter doesn't always bring the former. He's no martyr, and his humor is too real to let reality really get him down. 
"Typically Moriarty" and "The Moriarty Syndrome" are not uncommon expressions on campus. The former was heard more than once during and after Steve's May Day activities at the tear of Sacred Heart Church. The sun was shining on a great day for the dedication of the University's new business building. Father Hesburgh's dedication Mass was ending, the recessional of dig­nitaries was moving out of the church, and there was Steve to spoil the scene. 
Dressed in dungarees, boots, a 
shredded undershirt and a combat 
helmet, he wore a bandage and eye patch on his face and carried a big red sign in one hand. WAR 1$ GOOD BUSINESS. Ex-Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara was to receive an honorary degree from Notre Dame that day, and Steve, whose only brother is a bomber pilot in Vietnam, said he thought it ap­propriate that he suggest that American businesses get out of American wars. 
Among those who said "Typically Moriarty" was a student who happens to like Steve and liked what he did. Several of the students participating in the dedication ceremonies said the same thing. But they don't like Steve and they didn't like what he did. 
Everybody knows you can't please all the people all the time, but Moriarty has a way of always pleasing some of the people and never pleasing the other people. 
It wasn't with the hope of pleasing anyone in particular when, back in the spring of 196S "just kind of on impulse" he decided to come to Notre Dame. He had never seen the place or known anybody who had, and today says he has "no idea" why he chose Notre Dame. "But I'm glad I did — and I'd do it again." 
One of the first things Steve did here was, interestingly enough, sign up for Air Force ROTC. Academically, he started off as a math major, switched to English, and by the end of his sophomore year had decided against both in favor of theology. 
"My primary reason for studying 
theology," says Steve, "is that I enjoy 
it" Further, he finds it important 
to him because "it offers a method of 
approaching the questions that you 
must ask in your life — not the 
answers, but a way to seek them." 
ROTC and Moriarty parted ways after the latter's sophomore year. "First of all," Steve explains, "being an officer in the Air Force was just inadequate for what I had to be doing — and further, it was in­compatible with my way of life." He applied for conscientious objector status during Christmas vacation of his junior year, but his draft board will not consider it until this summer. Regardless of their decision, Moriarty says, "under no circum­stances will I enter the Armed Forces 
— according to my Christian morality, I must refuse to allow my­self to obey orders to kill." 
During his last two years at Notre Dame, direct action for peace via draft counseling, demonstrating, and speaking has consumed a good deal of his time. He helped organize the Notre Dame Draft Counselors, a student group offering advice regarding selective service regulations and procedures. Two or three counselors are available four nights a week in makeshift headquarters in a study room in Memorial Library. In addition to the draft counseling Moriarty often speaks at student retreats, and once last summer, ad­dressed a group of alumni at a retreat conducted in Chicago. He also is assisting with the formulation of the Committee for the Nonviolent Resolution of Human Conflict, a new academic program to be instituted in the faU at Notre Dame. 
But Notre Dame has been a good deal more than a base of activity — in many respects it has supplied the people and the ideas through which Moriarty has developed his Christian life style. "One of the best things about Notre Dame," he insists, "is the faculty. Unlike many other places, the students here have the opportunity to get to know their teachers and really learn from the way they live their lives." 
All is not golden, however, in Moriarty's estimation of Notre Dame: "Notre Dame could be one of the greatest universities in the world — but it will have to redefine itself as a Christian liberal arts school." 
He maintains that such a redefini­
tion would call for the University's 
"placing values above its checkbook" 
and "making sure the Gospel is 
preached." The implications of such 
activities, says Moriarty, would 
include the elimination of campus 
ROTC and the vast expansion of 
minority enrollment. He would also 
like to see the undergraduate school 
of business either abolished or 
"at least extended to five years to 
include a greater exposure to the liberal arts," and an increased student voice (and vote) on such University 
bodies as the Board of Trustees. 
"It is the responsibility of the Uni­versity," he says, "to create revo­lutionaries who will change this world for the better." 
It is with this, the awakening of students, that Steve plans to concern himself next year. Hopefully as alternate service for his C.O. draft status, he will do counseling work in Newman Clubs at colleges in the Kansas City area. 
He'll be doing what many think he does best: talking with people. "Hell always listen to anybody," says one of his friends. "There's a certain quiet about him that encourages people to talk. But this quiet shouldn't be confused with assent— he's just willing to listen." 
The same friend describes what is known as the "Moriarty Syndrome": "For every opinion, Moriarty has got 45 facts to back it up." 
So, packed with facts and a Christian ideal, Steve Moriarty stepped out of Notre Dame June 1 to go make the world a better place. 
Sounds good. Nice cliche. But Moriarty, whether you like him or not, is really going to do it. And he really isn't all that hard to get to know, or lik». 
—Bill Mitchell 71 

Tom Demetrio 
"I am just an average guy, and I'm very prejudiced towards Notre Dame." The words came from a blond-haired, blue-eyed senior named Tom Demetrio as we sat down at Frankie's, looking back over four years at this University. Tom's description of himself would be all right, except that all the average guys at Notre Dame are unique if you look at them individually, and everyone is prejudiced about the place one way or another—^it's just not the type of university where one can be neutral. 
A government major specializing in Latin America area studies, Demetrio has not made the big kind of splash at Notre Dame that many student activists have made. He has been around, but not in the headlines. His extracurricular activities include intramural golf and basketball for Sorin Hall, a seat on his hall council as section leader, and a tenure as business manager for the Mock Polit­ical Convention of 1968. Tom's biggest activity was touring with the Alumni Association on trips to Chi­cago and Muncie, Indiana, in an effort to explain Notre Dame from a student point of view. 
Tom cites his sophomore year at the University as a critical time of decision, when he made some vital theological commitments and finally settled on a career in the foreign service as his ultimate occupational goal. A stint in the Army Reserve next fall and three years at law school will precede any possible pursuit of that long-iange plan. 
Cnning bam a family which produced a father who graduated in 193S (George Sr.) and a brother horn the class of 1963 (George Jr.), Tom has had Notre Dame on his mind since childhood. He recalls that his decision to attend the University was greatly influenced by that family background, but he cites an even more important reason as being the Christian atmosphere present on the campus. An activist daring high schotd in the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, Tom considers his faith as a very important matter. He credits his education at Notre Dame with providing him with inaghts into the true meaning of love and the importance of seeing each person as an individual with dignity and worth. 
Tom Demetrio is unashamedly in love with Notre Dame, and any other description of him which fails to note this love would be inaccurate. His respect for the place leads him to criticize the institution so that it might become better still in his mind. Tom dislikes the amount of required courses a student is forced to take; he opts for the flexibility which individual counseling would provide for a student He agrees with the recent decision to turn Notre Dame toward coeducation, but he is enough of a traditionalist to unexplainably complain about the idea of having girl cheerieaders for football. 
Deep down, Demetrio is concerned about the meaning of his life. An education at Notre Dame has prompted him to be open, and this openness has led him to critically question even his own life decisions and work. He sees injustice and suffering and inequality in the worid, and he is bothered about what he can do about it and why be hasn't done anything about it yet The questioning has not paralyzed him to inaction. He will "get the military out of the way," as he puts it; stu^ for a law degree, and then see what he can 
do in a worid and a life towards which he is very prejudiced. 
—Michael McCauIey '69 

Tom McKinley 
Not many people go through Notre Dame with a four-year tenure on the Dean's List while carrying a double major. Probably a smaller number win monograms in football for three straight years. Very few do both. Tom McKinley is one fellow who did both. 
He's a big, intelligent, easygoing guy who has a good sense of where it is he's going and what he plans to do when he gets there. Tom grew up in Kalamazoo, Michigan, barely 70 miles down the road. Living so close, the ND name and image were no strangers to him when it came time to pick a college. "I picked ND because I was certain of its academic potential and because of the fact that if I could play ball here I'd know I could be playing anywhere else." 
The past four years are ample testimony to the fact that Tom knew what he was talking about, both academically and athletically. His 
3.58 cumulative average as an Arts and Letters-Mechanical Engineering major and his two years as starting guard for the Fighting Irish should be enough to convince anyone who might have doubts. 
Tom's sense of values becomes apparent when you discover that he lived in a single room while at school in order to be able to devote his time to the books, football and sleep —^when there was time. A look at his academic record and an attempt to count the number of hours he labored on the gridiron would lead one to wonder how much sack time he was able to put in. 
Looking at his future, the Academic All American and member of the engineering honor fraternity Tau Beta Pi, figures to be handed for the Canadian north country toward the end of June. He'll begin work­outs with the Montreal Alouettes of the Canadian Football League who drafted him following the past season. During the fall he'll also be taking some elective courses so as not to lose the touch. Then it'll be back to ND for the second semester to finish requirements for the five-year combination program. 
Before his Canadian escapade Tom has two other stops planned—one at an altar in Kalamazoo and the other on a sunny beach in Bermuda. The lucky young lady is Carolyn Jaques, a high school sweetheart and the reason behind so many of Tom's trips "back home" during the past four years. 
His ultimate goal is a career as a patent attorney and if his past record is any indication, he'll have no problem attaining it. Despite all of his superhuman-sounding qualities, Tom McKinley is a down-to-earth man as evidenced by his comment, "I hope to be able to make enough money to be happy and to be a good husband and a good father. After that we'll see what happens." I 
Although most of Tom's extra­curricular activity was spent on a dusty field east of the Stadium he was involved and did care about ND and its overall direction. He feels strongly that the Administration has loosened its grip on students over the past four years. "Now you have a much better chance to learn how to lead a life of your own. It's either sink or swim on your own, which is a good way to have things." 
Tom McKinley is one Saturday afternoon hero we'll most likely hear a lot more from and it won't be just on weekends. 
—John McDermott 7 0 

Don Wycliff 
"You will have to bear great sorrow and suffering to genuinely know the deep dimensions of love in a modem world where man must painfully search for truth, justice and freedom. Good by to you, my students. Peace to you, my friends." As the beloved, white-haired professor, Frank O'Malley, closed his final lecture to his graduating seniors this spring, I noticed one student in particular out in the audience. He was conspicuous, because he was about the only black face among a sea of white faces. But he was even more noticeable to me, his friend, because I thought that here was a student who truly understood the meaning of Frank O'Malley's words and who had both the intellectual and moral potential to live a life of truth, justice, love, and freedom in the deepest Christian sense. 
Don Wycliff was the lone Negro in Frank O'Malley's last lecture, as he has been the lone Negro in most of his classes at Notre Dame during the past four years. He is unique because of his blackness amidst all 
a 
this whiteness, but he is even more unique because he is one of Ihe most sensitive and brilliant students to graduate from Notre Dame in 1969. 
The long, lanky senior from Dayton, Texas is a Woodrow Wilson Fellow who will pursue his study of Political Science at the University of Chicago next fall with a National Defense Fellowship. Wyclift has made his mark at Notre Dame as a Phi Beta Kappa graduate and as a student of distinction. But it is not his list of impressive academic credentials which epitomize the person, Don Wycliff; it is the perception, the insight, the sensitivity which he brings to any discussion which set him apart from other students. 
As a recent graduate of Notre 
Dame, Don has many feelings and 
opinions concerning the University. 
He finds the racial and cultural 
homogeneity of the campus popula­
tion to be a mixed blessing for an 
individual like himself. 
For an individual with a mind such as that of Don Wycliff, the cultural dislocation which is present for black students at white Notre Dame provides fuel for a probing and questioning intellect. But for a student of lesser intellectual endowment, the situation could be tragic. That is why Don feels that the racial situation at Notre Dame can be individually rewarding in some cases, but that it is generally unacceptable as a normal or proper educational environment. 
WyclifFs worst criticism of Notre Dame is that the University is sacrificing its uniqueness as a potential center for humanistic study and contemplation by pursuing the model of the Ivy League schools. Don compares Notre Dame's pursuit of the Ivy League to the analogy of a second-string team trying to make the first team—with the added tragedy that the first team is in the wrong league to begin with! The best thing about Notre Dame, according to this black humanist, is the people which one can confront in the University. 
In normal sociological classification. 
Don Wycliff would be classified as a black man who has "made it." He has graduated with extraordinary honors from Notre Dame and has received a fellowship for graduate study at one of the world's finest Political Science centers. With credentials like that, Don could go just about as far away from the ghetto as possible. 
But Don Wycliff is going back. After he finishes his doctorate at Chicago, he plans to teach at a college of black people. Don believes, "a black college has the potential to be the country's conscience, based on detachment and criticism—^roles which the white colleges have abdicated." After teaching Political Science for a while, Don wants to start his own coIIege^-one that would stress "social awareness within the general structure of humanistic studies and an integrated learning experience." 
It would be grossly incorrect 
to suggest that Don Wycliff is a social martyr or a secular saint. He is an unusual student who has taken advantage of the total educational opportunity which existed for him at Notre Dame. He will suffer simply 
because he is a sensitive man. He will suffer in his attempt to bring an improved educational opportunity to others in order to help make the ideals of Frank O'Malley realities in a world which so sorely needs truth, justice, love, and freedom. 
—Michael McCauley '69 

Mike Neumeister 
He might be the fellow from the other side of town who dates your sister. Or he could be the guy next door that you do the town with every now and then. Or he might be just a nice guy you happened to meet someplace and can't remember where. Mike Neumeister isn't likely to bowl you over with his exuberance but neither will he cross to the other side of the street when he sees you coming. He's the sort of fellow who just sticks in your memory. 
He isn't a Rhodes Scholar, and he doesn't wear the Phi Beta Kappa key, and he didn't score touchdowns, and he didn't lead marches or preach the gospel of student power, and he didn't write editorials in the Campus news­paper. But there's something about Mike that would cause you to remember him just the same. It might be his quiet determination, or his easy laugh or the way he cuts his sideburns. 
What Mike DID was spend four years of his life at Notre Dame. And he spent those four years, that used to seem so long when he looked ahead and now seem like fleeting moments, involved in a search for meaning and knowledge and truth and other abstract things, like a lot of other guys who never make the papers. And he became interested and concerned and involved in the ND community in his own ways, like so many of the students you never seem to read or hear about. 
A native of Buffalo, Mike chose ND in lieu of some smaller Eastern Catholic colleges because he wanted to study engineering. He arrived in South Bend with some grand illusions that were quickly snuffed out when the grade reports came out at the end of the year. By the process of elimination and because he was interested in the business world, he ended up studying accounting. 
Coming to ND wasn't an easy task for Mike. It was necessary for him to finance about 75 percent of his education with summer jobs, loans and on-Campus work. His switch of majors that first year caused him to spend the next three adjusting and catching up. As a result his academic average isn't the greatest but he did get what he feels is a good, full education. 
At first impression Mike comes 
across as the quiet, reserved guy he 
is. But it doesn't take long to light 
up that warm smile and get him to 
articulate some of his strong con­
victions and candid opinions. "ND 
worries too much about its alumni 
reaction—^the alumni should realize 
that things will never be like they 
were," or "I really question whether 
the military has a place on this or 
any other campus." 
In discussing his alma mater the bridge-playing addict doesn't gild the lily. "I'm satisfied I came because I got a good education which I'm thankful for and I learned some valuable lessons. But I still feel that ND has a long way to go. Co­education is probably the best thing that ever happened here because it will create the total educational sphere." 
While not an activist, Mike considers himself a liberal and he did involve himself in class government, in the Neighborhood Study Help Program, as an officer in the Buffalo Club, and he even gave rugby a try his sophomore year. He also spent a year in Air Force ROTC before deciding to drop out because of the lengthy commitment following grad­uation. 
Like many of his classmates he has a lot of questions about society and its future, and in his own unheralded way he'll seek some answers to these questions. 
Regarding his future Mike faces a lot of unanswered questions 
as well. It'll be law school in the fall after a summer job in accounting. Afterwards he's not sure, but what­ever it is you can bet he'll go at it with the same quiet determination 
that earned him his B.S. from ND. Mike Neumeister happens to be the kind of guy who can sit down next to you and somehow become a close friend in a very short time. You might not remember him for changing the world but there's not much doubt that you will remember him— so will Notre Dame. 
—Tom Sullivan 

Chuck Perrin 
Chuck Perrin has given himself a reputation on campus. He's not a long-haired radical, but he certainly has changed things for Notre Dame and it's students. His picture has appeared in the "Dome" and "Scholastic" many times in the past four years, usually illustrating the ND-SMC dramatic productions and his leading roles in them. But Chuck Perrin has done a lot more for ND and is much more than an actor. 
The Perrin name first made it big in '65 when he brought together five ND musicians in a rock group called "The Shaggs." The group, with Chuck as its lead singer, con­stantly amazed crowds whether it was on Sorin Hall porch or at a South Bend community dance. 
But now, folk music is probably Chuck's principal involvement In 
1963 he purchased his first guitar and since then has established himself as a 20th century troubadour. Street singing is not an unusual pastime for Chuck, and it's not unusual for him to be doing it in Europe either. His first chance to match the musicians of the middle ages came in 1966 when he traveled to Angers on the Sopho­more Year Abroad Program. 
A sensitive yet dynamic guy. Chuck Perrin started a business on a February day in an old, downtown South Bend speak-easy—a. people business. Under the title of "Webster's Last Word" Notre Dame and St. Mary's were given their first actual taste of the coffeehouse life, but not their last. Admission was free, publicity by word of mouth, and the only thing you could expect was a cup of coffee. The result of this business venture was 200 or more people every weekend and another coffeehouse at SMC. 
February of 1968 was a big month for Chuck. At the same time that he was promoting coffee on campus he was also campaigning for Student Body President. A week before his entrance he had no expressed desire to run. His decision came from a coffeehouse discussion on the then announced SBP candidates—a discussion which lead him to believe that he must throw his hat into the political ring. Within one week Chuck and followers had completed a strong campaign based on the principle that "mouth to mouth respiration is the only way." The person-to-person method that Chuck used in his one week of involvement in the SBP race was strong enough in fact, to muster enough votes for a second place position. 
More than half of Chuck's 23 years have been spent on the ND campus, so he his keenly aware of and respects the ND tradition. Liter­ally wheeled on campus as a toddler, he is a former resident of the Vetville community of which his father was mayor in 1950. 
He fears sounding like a typical rah-rah, but Chuck readily admits that he thinks ND is great, with a tremendous amount of great people. But with twelve children in the family it wasn't the easiest thing for Chuck to come to ND. Determined to get here after four years in the seminary though, he spent twelve months work­ing at as many as five odd jobs at a time. 
Chuck Perrin recently started something which will no doubt add to his reputation. With his nineteen-year old sister Mary, Chuck has opened his own record company, WEBSTER'S Last Word Records in Pekin, Illinois, the Perrins home town. The first album to be released from 
the company is "the Chuck And 
Mary Perrin Album" which includes 
four songs written and arranged 
by Chuck. 
This sununer could be the start of something new for Chuck Perrin. His plans include jumping into an old green truck with guitar and sister Mary and touring the country, trying to promote their album. The two folk singers already have several definite engagements, but plan on stopping anywhere and everywhere they can to sing. 
As for his plans after the summer tour. Chuck has none. But his hope is to sing together professionally with Mary. "We both want it so bad," Chuck says, "we can almost taste it." And when Chuck has a taste in his mouth, you can bet it won't stop there. He's unusual and he's idealistic and insists that you have to be the latter to accomplish. The key to idealism, he holds, is to never don't not do it, a kind of back-handed philosophy, but one that has worked well for Chuck. 
—Jeannine Doty 

Mike McCafferty 
He's a pretty regular guy and you see him around Campus a lot in his civvies. Mike McCafferty likes to relate with his fellow seniors on all levels, whether it be in the classroom, the swimming pool at the Rock, or 
in a local establishment downtown 
known as Sweeney's Bar. 
For most Notre Dame seniors making it around Campus in civvies and interacting in a downtown tavern isn't all that unusual and for Mike it isn't either. But even as recently as a couple of years ago the idea that a seminarian would leave Campus to frequent such places with his friends would've been tantamount to shiver­ing the very foundations of Holy Mother Church. Not so anymore, at least for Mike and other young men like him. "The emphasis in seminary training has shifted toward personal responsibility rather than strict ad­herence to a rigid system of rules and regulations. I'm a college student like other college students and I think it's very natural to expect to experi­ence the things they do." 
The Cincinnati native came to ND largely because of his home environ­ment. "My father is an alumnus and I really never wanted to go to any other school." His first two years here saw him become active in hall and student government and his social life was far from dormant in that he visited our new sister institution across the road frequently. After his sophomore year Mike decided to give the priesthood a try and he spent his CSC novitiate analyzing the priestly life and working a farm in a small Vermont town. He returned to Campus after the one-year hiatus to resume his studies. 
Like most young men living in today's perplexing society Mike is concerned and opinionated about contemporary problems. "The war in Vietnam is probably the biggest tragedy that has happened to our generation because so much of our potential has been channeled into either fighting the war or protesting it. It has diverted our attention from a lot of other serious problems that have surfaced in society." At the same time he tends to become irritated with the complainers who "tend to pick on institutions like government, the Church, the military and the business community. They by-pass the whole idea that it's us— people who really make up these institutions and bear the respon­sibility for them." 
Mike's various activities—he was a groomsman for a classmate in one of South Bend's biggest society weddings this winter—might result in his being described in some quarters as a "swinging seminarian", but in reality he is a serious young man with a deep interest in the priesthood and the contribution he hopes to make to it "I had thought about the priest­hood before coming to college but rejected the idea. After being here two years I decided it was something I had better try. I want to try it because there's something personally attractive to me about a priest's special relationship between people and their God." 
While Mike's life is ultimately directed toward the priesthood he isn't shelving his commitment to his fellow men until some later date. He taught a CCD course in a local highschool during the year and will work as a counselor at a Jesuit sununer camp after graduation. He has gotten the OK to attend the ND Law School in a combination program with his theological studies and eventually hopes to teach and practice law through a social agency. 
With four years of life at ND behind him Mike has developed opinions about the place. "It has been a great experience for me. I think it is one of the few Catholic universities that has a chance of achieving educational greatness. I do feel, though, that ND is slow in taking creative initiative because she is afraid of making mistakes. In today's world you can't sit back and wait until the possibility of error is eliminated, you have to take risks." 
It has been said of Mike Mc­Cafferty by his friends that he "has evolved into what the contemporary seminarian should be, someone in lay clothes with a religious commitment." He is that, and he feels that in the future people will look to the priest as someone "who can guide them through their life experiences as he goes through his—someone with spiritual vision who can communicate it" He wants very much to be that kind of priest and he's got himself a pretty good start 
—Tom Sullivan 

Mr. Francis P. Clark Head, Microfilming & Photo. Lab. Memorial Library 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'''Skt^samjoMfsm 
•evjs£,___ 
i-^ir^'^'"i^^ 

*»^V 
- rS-^r< 
"jrt T^ 
a 



^^mmmm:: 
%MmmM-i^­
"^?-V3i>, 

^fe^^^;?-;-^'"'' 
Sii|f« Wlio? 



