The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Volume 43, Number 3 July-August, 1965 

I CommemmeHt 1965i CulmimtioH and l^egiming 
See "Student Slant" and Editorial and "Kaleidoscope," pp. 19-21 "Keeping Pace," 5-9 
\ . 
V ^ 

Vol. 43, No. 3 July-August, 1965 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG. '25, Editor JOHN f. lAUGHLIN, '4B, Monogfng Editor 
NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., '41, Co/umnist BRUCE HARUN , '49, Pholographtr 
Contents:  
A BREAKTHROUGH FOR THE LAITY: Notre Dame's New Vice-Presidents Introducing Fr. Walsh, Mr. Frick, Drs. McGuire & Stewart  3  
HALF-V/AY HOUSE: Elliot Lisk "56 of Los Angeles Another alumnus translates the lesson of love for neighbor  4  
EDITORIAL COMMENT. James E. Armstrong '25, Alumni Secretary Thoughts on alumni opportunities in continuing education  5  
KEEPING PACE: Education for an Age of Change. Thomas Bergin '45 New dean lays out plans & solicits alumni advice  6  
A FIGHT IN THE FAMILY. Michael Bascle '66 Three alumni-educators in a philosophical fag match  10  
COMMITTEE ON NEGRO ENROLLMENT. Al Valkenaor '66 Student group alleges need for more vigorous recruiting  II  
NO'S OWN SPACE PROBLEM. Robert Cahill '34, Ticket Manager NASA (Nearly All Sold Already): recapping the annual apologia  12  
MAN & THE MOMENT: Father Bodin. Thomas J. O'Donnell CSC '41 'Man on the go' & some new men coming  14  
ALUMNI IN ART IV: Bill Green '64, "Opulent Poppist" Fourth in a series by John Laughlin '48  15  
PLANNING YOUR ESTATE II: Securities — An Ideal Gift Excerpt from the Portfolio/Cedar Point Midwest Festival  16  
EASTER IN THE UPLANDS. Ambassador William P. Mahoney Jr. '38 Ghana's White Fathers & Dagorti/Homage to a Ph.D.  17  
LAW SCHOOL NEWS. Thomas L. Shaffer L'61 Notes on curricula, students, faculty & alumni  18  
STUDENT SLANT: Spring. Secretary Jim Harnisch '65 Retrospect on a momentous semester  19  
KALEIDOSCOPE: Centennial, Symposia, Conferences & Convocations Late-summer look at the colors of spring  20  
NOTRE DAME BOOKS: Notes & Notices Some publications of the University, faculty & alumni  21  
FACULTY: Profs. Kline, Nutting, Stevason, De Koninck Three retirements, a return & a remembrance  22  
SPORTS: Roundup & Random Notes. Charlie Callahan '38 A homecoming, spring sports & omens for autumn  23  
ALUMNI IN ATHLETICS: MEYER '38, Bertelli '41, Quinlan '48 Pictorial potpourri on grads in a great tradition  24  
NOTRE DAME CLUBS: Universal ND Night '65 Directory, UND pix & Spotlight Clubs  25  
NOTRE DAME CLASSES Statistics, reports, pix & Spotlight Alumni  40  
PRESIDENT'S LETTER: Vice-Presidents Fenlon, Goodman & Boriscillo Eye-witness reports on the First Alumni Workshop  72  
PHILLIP J. FACCENDA, '51 


Cover: 
COMMENCEMENT 1965 is the most recent event covered in this delayed summer issue which chronicles a spring so crowded with campus events (pp. 18-23), Club events (UND Nights, pp. 26-39), and alumni achievements (pp. 41-71) thot summer and 1965's Class Reunions will have to wait for coverage in Sep­tember. It's also a perfect point of departure (in its connotation as "beginning") for the editorial and feature discussions treating the University's new Continuing Education Program [pp. 5-9) - which provide the second theme of this double issue. Your attention is also directed-^ the lead story (opposite) on Notre Dame's "emerging laymen" and the "inside story" on the RrsI Alumni Workshop (bock cover). The 120th Commencement sow Father Hesburgh (front & center) owarding honorary doctorates to: (from left) Metropolitan Opera tenor Richard Tucker; Robert McAfee Brown, Stanford University; Bernard Jan Cardinal Alfrink, archbishop of Utrecht. Netherlands; Sr. Mary Luke SL MA '42, superior general of loretto and first American woman admitted to Vatican II; Fred Hechinger, education editor; Commencement Speaker McGeorge Bundy, presidential advisor on national security; Rev. Roland de Voux OP, Harvard University; Roy Wilkins, director of the NAACP; ond Paul Hellmuth *40, lawyer and ND trustee. 

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Officers 
Honorary President 
W. LANCASTER SMITH, '50 J 
President 
MORTON R . GOODMAN, '30 
Fund Vice-President 
GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR., '44 -• 
Club Vice-President 
PAUL I. FENLON, '19 
Class Vice-President 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 
Executive Secretary j 
Directorsto 1966 
GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR. '44 444 Golf Rd., Deal Park, N.J. 
PAUL I. FENLON, '19 1 141 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. ] 
MORTON R . GOODMAN, '30 j 2415 Pilgriniage Trail, Los Angeles, Calif. 90028 ' 
W. LANCASTER SMITH, '50 " Dallas Athletic Club Building, Dallas, Tex. 75201 J 

Directorsto 1967 
THOMAS P. CARNEY, '37 ' 1050 N. Green Bay Rd., Lake Forest, 111. 
BERTRAND D . COUGHUN, M.D., '26 16 Thomdell Dr., St. Louis (Riclunond Heights), Mo. 63117 
WILLIAM V. CUDDY, '52 155 Ralph Ave., White Plains, N.Y. t 
HERBERT M . SAMPSON, '50 735 North 57 Ave., Omaha, Neb. 68132 , 

Directors to 1968 ^ 
JOSEPH H . CAREY, '32 19965 Briarclilf, Detroit, Mich. 48221 '; THOMAS W. CARROLL, '51 17 Carlton Rd., Hutchinson, Kansas J AMBROSE F. DUDLEY, JR., '43 519 Sussex Rd., Wynncwood, Pa. 1909G CHARLES J. PATTERSON, '47 ' 34 Little Tree Lane, Framingham, Mass. 

Gliainnen of the 1963 CJommittees ^ 
W. LANCASTER SMITH Executive 
THOMAS P. CARNEY Continuing Education -4 
HERBERT M . SAMPSON Athletic J 
BERTRAND D . COUGHLIN Student Affairs ' 
THOMAS P. CARNEY Academic Affairs \ 
WILLIAM V. CUDDY ( 
Public Relations and Development 
THOMAS P. CARNEY Admissions . 
HERBERT M . SAMPSON ] 
Religion and Citizenship •* 
WILLIAM V. CUDDY Placement \ 
BERTRAND D . COUGHLIN Budget ' 
GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR., and J 
PAUL I. FENLON Nominations 1 
'iliis ^.magazine is published bi'inonthly by the Univosity of Notre Dame, Notie Dame, Ind. Entered as second.class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind., imder the act o{ Aug. 24, 1912. 
Wotre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1963 

A Breakthrough for the laity ... 



Three Laymen Appointed to Top ND Jobs As Father Walsh Accedes to Academic Post 
T
HE L,\iT\' received an unprece­dented recognition with the ap­pointment of three vice-presidents at the University by Father Hesburgh on June 7. 
They are Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., '45, vice-president for academic affairs; James W. Frick, '51, vice-president for public relations and de­velopment; and Dr. Francis T. Mc­Guire, '35, vice-president for special projects. Father Hesburgh also named Dr. Thomas E. Stewart, '57, associate vice-president for academic affairs. Frick and McGuire are the first lay­men to become vice-presidents of Notre Dame, which has always been operated by the Holy Cross Fathers. 
Father Walsh, who has been Notre Dame's vice-president for public rela­tions and development since 1963, suc­ceeds Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C, '38, as academic vice-president. Frick, who replaces Father Walsh as the Uni­versity's ranking public relations and development officer, has been executive director of The Notre Dame Founda­tion since 1961. McGuire occupies the newly created post of vice-president for special projects after serving as vice-president for research at Deere and Company, Moline, III. Stewart, also assigned to a newly created posi­tion, has been head of Notre Dame's mathematics department since 1963. 
Father Heiburgh, in announcing the appointments, said they reflect "the continuing expansion of Notre Dame's educational programs and research as well as the need to develop deeper understanding and greater support for them. 
"These appointments," he said, "will provide additional administrative lead­ership and strength at a time when Notre Dame faces its greatest oppor­tunities to develop new levels of excel­lence in teaching, research and public service." 
Notre Dame's president paid special tribute to Father Soleta, who will be on leave from the University after serv­ing as its academic vice-president since 1958. "For the past seven years," he said, "Father Soleta has brought to his work the priestly dedication, the schol­arly attainments and the administra­tive skills required of Notre Dame's ranking academic officer. The faculty, which he has led so well, the adminis­tration and I are deeply grateful to him," Father Hesburgh said. 
Under the leadership of Father AValsh and Frick, Notre Dame success­fully completed its $18,000,000 Chal­lenge Program in 1963 and has achieved 85% of its $20,000,000 goal in the Challenge II Program scheduled to conclude in June, 1966. 
Father Walsh, prior to his appoint­ment as director of the Notre Dame Foundation in 1961 and his elevation to vice-president in 1963, served for three-and-a-half years as head of the University's department of education. A specialist in the philosophy of edu­cation, he is the author of Education and Political Power. He holds under­graduate and master's degrees from Notre Dame and a doctorate from Yale University. He is an examiner for the North Central Association of Col­leges and Secondary Schools and is a member of the Philosophy of Educa­tion Society, the Commission on Tax­ation and Philanthropy of the Ameri­can College Public Relations Associa­tion, and the advisory committee of the _W. K. Kellogg Foundation's divi­sion of education. 
Frick has been associated with the 

James W. Frick Dr. Francis T. McGuire Dr. Tbomas E. Stewart 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
Notre Dame Foundation for fourteen years and became its executive director 
ELLIOT LISK '56= Working to Prove 
in 1961. In this post he has directed professional employees of the Univer­sity and organized thousands of alumni and otlier volunteers in nationwide fund-raising activities. A native of New. Bern, N.C., and a ^Vorld ^\'ar II Naval officer veteran, Frick was grad­uated from Notre Dame's College of Business Administration in 1951. He is a member of the Board of Directors of United Community Ser\'ices of Soutli Bend and a member of the Catholic Interracial Council. On a number of occasions he has addressed national and regional meetings of the American College Public Relations Association and the American Alumni Council. He and his wife, tlie former Bonita Torbert, have three sons and two daughters. 
Dr. McGuire brings to his new work as vice-president for special projects a rich background in research and de­velopment work. He has held posts of increasing responsibilitj' with Deere and Company since 1949 and was elected vice-president for research in 1962. In earlier years he was foundrj' manager of Sibley Machine and Foundry Corp., South Bend (1946-49): laboratory di­rector for Republic Steel Corp., Chi­cago (1943-46); and associate profes­sor of metallurgical engineering at the University of Kentucky (1941-43). McGuire holds three degrees from Notre Dame including a doctorate in metallurgy awarded magna cum laude in 1941. During 1938-39 he was the Hennen Jennings Scholar in Harvard's Graduate School of Engineering. He is a director of Deere and Company and the National Safetj' Council and a consultant to the Army AVeapons Com­mand. He has numerous professional affiliations with engineering, scientific and educational organizations. Dr. and Mrs. McGuire have a son and a daugh­ter. 
Prof. Stewart joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1961 after two years at tlie Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, N.J. A native of Memphis, Tenn., he attended tlie Christian Brothers College there, was graduated from Notre Dame in 1957 and received his doctorate from the University two years later. A specialist in transforma­tion groups and topolog>', he became head of the department of matliematics in 1963 and recently was promoted to the rank of full professor. Stewart and his ^vife, the former Margaret Dolan, have a son and a daughter. 

A 'Half-Way House' Can be a Home 
E
LLIOTT LisK, A.B. '56, tliought for a while that he had a vocation to the priesthood. AVhen he decided that he did not, he majored in sociology. After graduation he stayed in South Bend working with retarded children, then went to Los Angeles (after t\vo years in the Army) and secured a well-paying job at County General Hospital there. 
But the interests that had first been interpreted as vocational, and then took him into sociology, manifested themselves in Elliott Lisk's involvement rath a rehabilitation project where he met another dedicated young Negro, Bob McCobb. 
The two determined to expand their efforts to save the young men who were 

caught "between life in state institu­tions or broken homes, and normal life in a community." Without money or, formalit)', McCobb and Lisk began the Half-Way House project that now has five such centers in existence or under way. Their staff is as dedicated as the founders. Their help is unpredict­able but coming from increasing and diversified sources as the effectiveness of their program becomes evident. Their first residents were largely white boys. Now the residents are both white and colored, \rith no consciousness of race in either the boys or the mixed racial group who staff the houses. 
McCobb says, "Los Angeles, or any large city, could use hundreds of homes like ours, but I doubt if I'll ever see it come to pass. I doubt it because the state can't run homes of this kind and only dedicated private individuals can do it — and how many of them are there around?" 
Fortunately McCobb and Elliott Lisk are two answers. As the boys leave the Half-Way House, usually at 18, they either have a trade, or the promise of a job, or are enrolled in a college or university. Lisk and McCobb have made great personal sacrifices to pursue this dedication. They maintain that the success of their boys is "a lift no words can describe." 
UPPER LEFT—Elliot L!sk (right) counsels -^. a youth in one of Lisk's Hali-Way House -H i rehabilitation centers. 
OPPOSITE—Lisk presents another Boy of ­the Month award to one of his students. , 
ABOVE—^Lisk helps some students with ^^ studies as part of his program to help '** f boys caught "between life in state f. institutions or broken homes, and normal ( life in a community." "J 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 





Mtorlal Comment 
from your Alumni Secretary 
CONTINUING EDUCATION: Don't Knock an 0^^ottmM\i 
(See "Keeping Pace," next page) 
T
HE KELLOGG CENTER for Continu­ing Education is rising rapidly across Notre Dame Avenue from the Morris Inn. 
Thomas P. Bergin, B.S. in Com­merce '45, who went on to receive his 

1 
M.A. from the U. of Vermont in 1948, and his doctorate in the social sciences from the U. of Syracuse in 1959, and 
who has been on the Notre Dame faculty of the College of Business Ad­ministration since 1947, is the newly created Dean of Continuing Education. 
I mention these facts because I think they represent the most significant progress for alumni which we have yet faced. 
The building will shape up more rapidly than the program. 

For many years, on many campuses, lip service has been freely paid to a concept of continuing education. But it has largely been a concept in which capsule programs of limited time and unlimited theme have sought to cater to almost an intellectual luxur)'. It has been a field in which leisure has been a key word, and as a result a field which has almost excluded the alumni mass population. The approaches have been sporadic in time, diverse in form, and given to large categorical labels in content. 
The net result has not been encour­aging in the area of alumni intellectual life, though the concepts and the ef­
V­
t 
forts marked a step and kept the basic idea of some post-campus educational 
activity alive. 

Dean Bergin is making an intensive study of the histor)' of continuing edu­cation. But he is primarily concerned in the more intensive study of what the potential wll be on the Notre Dame campus, for the University, and for its alumni and friends. 
For your thought, possibly reactions, I would like to suggest a few things that are largely personal beliefs, based on years of interest in this intellectual afterlife. I have discussed most of them with Dean Bergin as part of his campus dialog. 
I. Continuing education is no long­er optional. An alumnus, to live intel­ligently, will have to become involved in continuing education in some con­structive pattern. 
II. The program will have to be an academic-based program, fostered by administrations and faculties. I think it will be fully achieved only when the undergraduates receive a thorough and continuing briefing in the on-going program they will face after graduation. 
III.
 Two phenomena in our world today, largely rooted in the explosion of knowledge, dictate the dedication of educated people to continuing educa­tion. 

A.
 The business or professional man or woman who hopes to succeed, even moderately, is already involved in an increasingly intensive effort, through old and new channels, to keep up with the rapid and radical changes in business and professional principles and procedures. 

B.
 At the same time, this is no longer a problem that permits indi­viduals to isolate themselves. The world around them is equally challenging with new principles and procedures iiT social, economic, political, cultural, and religious life. Understanding of these changes, and involvement in the intel­ligent application of these changes to individual, family and national life, may well determine the ultimate fate of our world. It is in this second broad area of understanding that I believe the total family must become con­sciously active. 


rV. Notre Dame alumni are \videly scattered. The campus Center cannot offer frequent personal programs to our distant alumni. But I believe it can become, a pilot center to determine what problems are urgently basic; how they can best be studied and discussed; who interprets them to best advantage. From this type of experience several re­sults may flow to all alumni: 
A. Campus authorities can sometimes travel to major alumni centers. 
B. Very constructive reading suggestions can be produced. 
C. Possible materials for discussion groups can be produced and supplied under some form of controlled program. 
D. Notre Dame alumni vdll be given sound information which they can add to the knowledge, judgment and interest of other college and univer­sity alumni and alumnae in commu­nities everywhere. And this united alumni interest can enlist the facilities and leadership of the colleges and uni­versities in those communities. 
I do not \vish to commit the Kellogg Center. And certainly not Dean Bergin. 
But I do %vant Notre Dame alumni, and their families, everywhere, to be alert to the significance and service implicit in this great for^vard step. 
The opportunities and the prestige of Notre Dame will be substantially advanced, if only through the already indicated constant flow of intellectual life through the new center. 
But unless a tremendous service to alumni, near and far, is a by-product of immeasurable value and interest, one of the purposes and potentials of this inspirational new front will have been needlessly lost. 
Dean Bergin, through the ALUMNUS and other channels, will keep you in­formed of progress. For your own good, meet him more than half way. 
—J.E.A. 

Hotte Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
W
HILE THE history of Notre Dame is filled with pres­
tigious events, the great work of dedicated people 
and imaginative academic programs for continued develop­
ment, one cannot help but be somewhat over^vhelmed by 
the d)'namism, growth and wtality which has characterized 
our Alma Mater over die past few decades. As a student, 
faculty member and administrator at Notre Dame for the 
past 24 years, I have witnessed this progress firsthand and 
must say — one is struck by the comprehensive thought and 
balance which are continually presented by the administra­
tion and facult)' for the organic growth and development of 
this great University. 

There is an excitement and viabilit)' in being at Notre Dame these days which is difficult to describe and almost impossible to measure. There are so many new, volatile and challenging events taking place daily that one can almost feel it in the atmosphere. Each week brings news of signif­icant developments and accomplishments at the Universit)' 
— any one of which prowdes evidence of what is taking place. From the establishment of a new psycholog)' de­partment — to tile successive additions of distinguished visiting professors . . . from the selection of Father Hesburgh by President Johnson to receive the PresidenUal Medal of Freedom — to the introduction of imaginative interdisci­plinary doctoral programs — from the news tliat the Notre Dame Alumni Association had won the American Alumni Council's Grand Award for exceptional p5formance — to the selection of a Notre Dame senior as a Rhodes Scholar . . . the place is truly alive. 
In the midst of these challenging intellectual activities, there is, as in the past, a never-ending program of brick and mortar. Included in the construction schedule at the present time is the new Center for Continuing Education 
— a building made possible by a grant from the Kellogg Foundation. This new facility, in combination with the academic opportunities it will accommodate, can provide a vast new dimension on the educational programs of the University. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
Notre Dame's New ( Continuing Education Dean i Lets Alumni in on Planning and Urges Their Help in < 
KEEPING r 



PACE^' 
The continuing explosion of new knowledge has placed frustrating and somewhat unexpected demands upon all of us. Rather than go on at great length in an attempt to dramatize the significance of the vast and sweeping changes currently taking place in our society, which are so quickly rendering our formal education obsolete, I thought it might be more appropriate briefly to describe the new facility and then share with you some of the early thinking we have concerning the activities of the Center. 
Located opposite the Morris Inn, the new Center for Continuing Education will be opened late this fall. In addition to the customary lounge facilities and a modest reference library, the Center's 68,000 square feet of floor space will provide 22 handsomely appointed seminar rooms 
^ 
By THOMAS P. BERGIN '45 

, equipped with facilities for tape recording and closed-
circuit television; an auditorium which will seat four ;• — hundred, and an audio-visual center and theater. The ' auditorium is to be equipped with simultaneous translation i facilities similar to those used at the United Nations. This I ^ will provide a rather unique setting for accommodating in-II temational conferences and multi-language discussion groups, 
•fc-* Equipment in some of the seminar rooms will permit the ^ P initiation of live television programs which may be carried W^ through the University-operated station. As many as a ' " thousand participants may be accommodated at any one ^ time within the Center. The opportunities for serious resi­' > ** dendal study at the Center are appropriately complemented , ji , by the excellent living and dining accommodations of the 
Morris Inn. 

The faculty, staff, facilities, and services of the new Center of Continuing Education will be available to all those who have a definable and serious educational need. J The Center is dedicated to the task of providing first-rate opportunities for responsible people to update their knowl­'"K- edge, extend their understanding and clarify their concepts 
especially as they relate to the challenge and responsi­
fS 
bilities of today's society. In keeping with the high purposes of the University, the various conferences, institutes, seminars, workshops and s>'mposia to be scheduled at the Center will 
Vf ^^ rigorous enough in substance to warrant the University's fX , involvement and designed to assist in the pressing and ever­^ changing needs of mankind for continuing education. 
I . While no Rxed pattern has been established, and ulti­
,1 mately this will depend upon our experience, I think our programs will probably fall into these major categories. Appro.vimately 40% of the activities of the Center ivill rep­resent the work of the various academic disciplines within the University — that is, the various academic departments win want to carry forward and extend the great variety of 
l> 
existing programs which relate to their discipline and its 
^ interdisciplinary application. Perhaps another 20 or 30% of our programs will be devoted to the emerging "problems of mankind in our contemporary society." This was the 
y_^ theme of our original proposal to the Kellogg Foundation. In this area we will invite distinguished people to join with 
r-
^ , UPPER LEFT—Work under way on the new Center for Continuing Education across from the Morris Inn. Construction is scheduled for completion in late fall. 
, - OPPOSITE—Dr. Thomas P. Bergin, dean of Continuing Education at Notre Dame. 
^ ~ RIGHT—An architect's model shows the 
•M- completed Center which will boast a 400­B^ seat auditorium, a theater and sinmlta­neous translation facilities. An under­ground tunnel will connect the Center 
*' with Morris Inn for the convenience of f k visiting alumn! and guests. 
the faculty and academic resources of the University to discuss such problems as world demography, civil liberties, economic imbalances, municipal government, area studies, American diplomacy and the like. It is our real hope that we will be able to devote another 10 to 20% of our program to the alumni and hopefully provide for them some new and imaginative educational programs. A portion of our time will be devoted to the scheduling of international con­ferences. This will probably be modest in the beginning but ultimately it will grow. Another part of our program will be devoted to working with the local community on some of the problems of our area. 
The list which follows is a modest sample of the various types of programs we have already been called upon to initiate. It will give you some idea of the range of subjects in which we might become involved. 
Interdisciplinary Industrial Research Criticism !n the Arts Mental Health Welfare Administration Programmed Learning Public Administration Regional Economic Programs Migrant Labor Natural Law Criminal Justice Numerical .Analysis Urban Planning for Mental Health Church-State Relations Solid-State Physics World Poverty 

^Vhile the overall philosophy and organizational policy for the work of the Center are still evolving and wiU be carefully worked out over a considerable period of time, there are some basic characteristics of the conference work which can be pointed out at this time. The programs scheduled at the Center: 
a.
 Will represent a serious educational need. 

b.
 Will provide an opportunity to learn. 

c.
 Will be designed to extend the participant's knowledge of the problem and thus further his understanding. 


(Continued overleaj) 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 

KEEPING PACE 
"What's This 
Have to do with 
The Alumni?" 

d.
 Will, for the most part, represent a residential educational experience and w-ill absorb the major portion of the participant's time. 

e.
 Will not represent an academic degree program which would involve credit. 


Acceptance of a conference for the Center ^viIl be analyzed by the Dean on the follo\ving criteria: 
a.
 The program has to be sponsored by a college, depart­ment, division or representative unit of the University. 

b.
 Some faculty members of the University should be in­volved in an appropriate part of the program. 

c.
 The main purpose of those attending should be to learn and not to conduct some organizational business, elect ofiScers or pass public resolutions. 

d.
 The programs must be well thought out, reasonably well defined and carried forward in cooperation with the Dean of the Center and the faculty members to be involved. 


At this point you might ask, "What does all of this have to do -with the alumni?" It is my personal feeling that one of the most significant aspects of our new Center for Con­tinuing Education at Notre Dame is the opportunity it presents for the University to become more closely associated with the alumni, their continuing intellectual needs and the important work of alumni relations. In recognition of this, the Board of Directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion, at the January, 1965, meeting, created a permanent Committee on Continuing Education. It will be the work of the Committee to advance in every appropriate way the development of Continuing Education programs for alumni and to encourage significant numbers of alumni to partici­pate in them. The Committee chairman is Dr. Thomas P. Carney, '37, Lake Forest, Illinois. Committee members in­clude George A. Bariscillo, Jr., '44, Deal Park, New Jersey; Charles J. Patterson, '44, Framingham, Massachusetts; and Dr. Bertrand Coughlin, '26, St. Louis, Missouri. As Dean of Continuing Education at Notre Dame, I shall be looking forward to meeting with this group regularly. 
Notre Dame has long sought the structure and organiza­tion through which it might provide first-rate continuing educational experiences and opportunities for its alumni — programs which would periodically replenish and add new interpretations of the work and responsibilities they face in their daily Uves. Many of our alumni have urgentiy re­quested further work in theology, philosophy, the humanities, the fine arts and the social sciences. There has also been considerable interest for refresher conferences and seminars in the natural and physical sciences from among those who took their major or advanced degree in these areas at Notre Dame. 
The Alumni Office has, indeed, been sensitive to these important requests and has, from time to time, scheduled various types of lecture and discussion programs in con­junction with the return of the alumni for their respective reunions. These were only reasonably successful, primarily because there was no existing organizational structure, facihty or program design for the alumni. With the com­pletion of the new Center, we will have the facility, the organizational structure, and will be ready to design the tjpe of seminar and conference work which the alumni have desired for so long. To do this, it will be imperative that the University have real cooperation from you, the alumni, in presenting to it the kinds of programs, subject areas and problems which you feel most important With such infor­mation we will be able to structure the appropriate pro­grams within the Center. It is important to point out that there are some very serious problems associated with the implementation of an alumni program. The subject areas, time schedule, format and whole procedure have to be very carefully thought out in relation to interest, time avail­abiUty and ultimate rewards. Any continuing education program designed to attract our alumni will have to focus upon the sophisticated and challenging problems of our time. It will have to be seriously planned, well in advance, with first-rate faculty members from the various disciplines, and presented in an integrated manner. Through such a program the individual alumnus will be able to renew his intellectual contact with the University — a contact which he frustratingly searches for and does not necessarily find through the traditional vehicle of athletics. By the same token, an alumni program such as this provides the Uni­versity with the opportunity to demonstrate her concern and follow through on the meaning and significance of her educational commitment. 
Requests Alumni's Aid 
In facing up to the problem of designing an alumni program for the near future, I will truly need your help. On the surface it may seem relatively easy to set up such a program. This is not true. There are many, many prob­lems associated -with it, and for that reason I would urge you to consider the problem for a while and then send me your thoughts and recommendations. 
Over the past few months I have visited many of the universities that have held successful alumni programs. Perhaps it might be worthwhile just to outline a few of their more recent alumni programs and the subject areas covered. 
One of the most popular conferences is held yearly at Yale University during the four-day period immediately following graduation. Entitled the Yale Alumni Seminar, it is open to all Yale alumni, their wives, the parents of Yale undergraduates and members of the Yale faculty. Those attending find themselves faced with a choice of four widely diversified topics from which they are advised to pick the two that interest them most Then during the seminars they are exposed to an hour and a half of daily lecture in each area. This is supplemented by a question period at the end of the lecture and evening discussions with the faculty. All of this presupposes a considerable amoimt of preliminary reading selected from Usts which are prepared for each topic. In the last two years the seminar embraced such iJiverse and stimulating areas as: L) Southeast Asia, 2.) Foiu: American Poets, 3.) Classical World Revisited, 4.) Current Develop­ments in Genetics, 5.) Soviet Russia, 6.) Automation, 7.) Modem Theatre, and 8.) French Literature and Ideas. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ July-August, 1965 
Over twelve hundred attended the 1964 Alumni Seminar. 
1962 marked the beginning of the Brown Univer­sity Alumni College which is open to all Brown University alumni, wives and husbands. Prior to the actual start of the one-week period, the alumni are asked to do a good deal of preparatory reading. Then, when they arrive at Brown for the Alumni College itself, the partici­
, pants are faced with t\vo-hour lectures daily in each topic area. These formalized meetings are supplemented by optional evening discussion groups led by the faculty. The topics covered one year ago were: 1.) The Soviet Union Today, 2.) Contemporary Psychology, and 3.) The Role of Fine Arts. The previous year's program covered: 1.) The European Common Market, 2.) The Impact of Leisure, and 3.) The New Biology. 
Reviews Other Programs 

At the Harvard Business School, a three-tiered Con­tinued Education Week is held during the first week of June in conjunction with the class reunions. The first tier is a survey of broad areas of business (most recently. New Mathematical Concepts in Business Decision Problems — Conflict and Collaboration — Corporate Financial Policy) and extends for a three-day period. It is designed to help graduates update their knowledge and skills in areas where there is a rapid accumulation of new information. The second stage of the week is called Alumni Reunion Day and is aimed at keeping the participants appraised of the latest business educational trends, as viewed by members of the faculty of the Business School. The final day centers around the annual Harvard National Business Conference (now in its 34th year) which featiures presentations by out­standing business leaders on a timely topic. Last year the theme was Business Leadership and National Policy Issues. 
The most recent education-oriented alumni gathering at Oklahoma University took place as part of the Homecoming Weekend. Geared to one specific topic, in this instance "The Origin of the Universe and of Life," the Alumni Weekend combines the business of further education with the pleasure of a reunion weekend. The Weekend has two unique features. First of all, it is open to all adults rather than just alumni, as its title would lead one to believe. Secondly, it is tightly structured, with the first of three lec­tures on Friday evening and the other two on Saturday morning. Further discussion is carried on at group alimmi meetings on Friday and Saturday evenings. 
Dartmouth's Alumni Program has been so well received that it was necessary to seek means of limiting rather than encouraging attendance at the two-week gathering. Advance reading is required for the men. Wives are invited to attend if they so desire. Last year's program covered: 1.) Science and Human Values, 2.) Current Economic Problems, 3.) Literature and Contemporary Affairs, and 4.) The Scientific Age — Dream and Reality. There were evening seminars, plays, concerts and special films. 
The Dean's Day Program for the alumni held Februarj' 6, 1965, at Columbia Uiuversity further illustrates the vast scope and areas of interest which can be covered: 
CoLLoauiuM REVISITED 
The Analects of Confucius — a professor of Chinese and Japanese FIRST LECTURE PERIOD Dostoevsky: a Literary Approach — a professor of Russian Language 
Initiatives toward Communist China — a professor of Government How Will You Have Your House — a professor of .Art History India in 1965: the Future Meets the Past — a professor of History Free Trial and Freedom of Communication — a professor of Law 
SECO.VD LECTURE PERIOD The Radical Right — a professor of Sociology Ethnomusicology: an Approach to World Cultures — a 
professor of Music The New Genetics — a professor of Zoology FDR and Huey Long — professor of History Cultural Shock — a professor of Civil Engineering and 
Architecture 
COLLOQUIUM REVisrrED 

Nietzsche's Thus Spoke Zarathustra — professors of Phi­losophy and English The Progressive Movement, 1900-1917 — a professor of History 
THIRD LECTURE PERIOD The Theatre of the Absurd — a visiting professor in English Contrast in Race Relations: the U.S. and Brazil — profes­
sor of Anthropology The Hero in American Democracy: a Second Look—profes­
sor of History Classical Humanism and its Survival — professor of Greek The Dollar in World Affairs — professor of Economics 
GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
RECEPTION 

While the Columbia program is obviously a very ambi­tious one and draws heavily upon metropolitan alumni for attendance, it nevertheless demonstrates the interest and support which can be generated. A less sweeping program scheduled over a greater number of days could be de­veloped at Notre Dame in line with the particular desires of our alumni. A theme could be selected and the program structured in cooperation with representative alumni groups. 
This morning, just as I was about to submit this article to the Alumni Office, I had a note from Jim Armstrong concerning the Third Annual Alumni College of Ohio University. The program will open Sunday, July 11, and close with a "graduation" luncheon on Saturday, July 17. At present there are 86 registered for the Alunmi Collie and enrollment will remain open only until 150 graduates and their wives or husbands are registered. The cost of the one-week alumni program is $85 per person. The partici­pants will reside in the beautiful new Ohio University Inn and will exchange ideas wt h outstanding faculty members in the disciplines of psychology, personal finance and art. They will share the views of some of the nation's leading educational and business personalities. Among those being contacted, in addition to faculty members, are newspaper columnist Abigail Van Biiren ("Dear Abey"), Peace Corps Director Sargent Shriver, and United Nations correspondent Pauline Fredericks. Recreation programs will include golf, bowling, tennis and swimming. There will also be cookouts and theater parties. 
Here again one can see the great variety of approaches which can be taken in alumni college work. It had been my impression, based on discussions with some of the other schools, that the middle of July would be a rather poor time to schedule an alumni program. Apparently it presents no problem for the people at Ohio University. 
Above all, we at Notre Dame would like to design, with the alumni, that program which would be most meaningful for them. I solicit your ideas and recommendations. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
A Fight 
in the 


Family 
By MICHAEL BASCLE '66 Pensacola, Florida 
(Photos cournsj- of Uic South Bend Tribune) 

Like two brothers scrapping over who gets to pitch in a neighborhood game, t\vo Notre Dame alumni have clashed over who represents the teach­ers of the South Bend Communitj' School Corporation. And a third ND grad became the referee. 
It began last May when the board of trustees of the Community' School Corporation offered a new salary scale for the teachers. Louis V. Bruggner '23, is president of tlie board and, after tossing the potato, tried to be an um­pire in the rift. 
Meeting head-on were Stephen Ko­sana BSPE '58 MA '59, president of the professionally oriented South Bend Community Education Association, and George T. Bull AB '62 MA '64, presi­dent of the South Bend Federation of Teachers, an affiliate of the AFL-CIO. 
SMILING FACES mask a renetval of the clash between teachers' union President George 
T. Bull AB '62 MA '64 (second from right) and South Bend Education Association President Stephen Kosana BSPE '38 MA '39 (right) as Bull agrees to return the 473-member tmion to classes foUomng a four-day boycott last May in South Bend. Another ND grad, Louis V. Bruggner '23 (second from left), "refereed" the Bull-Kosana rift which is expected to resume in the fall as the two push for new members and raid each other's ranks. .\t left is school supt. Alex Jardine. 
Kosana's group accepted the pack­age. Bull's didn't — and began what became a four-day "boycott" of their classrooms, which received national publicity. 
Bull claimed a federation member­ship of 475 of the more than 1,400 teachers in the area. Kosana said the SBCEA had a membership of about 950. 
But the salary' scale, and even the "was it a strike or a boycott?" issue, marked only a starting point for hos­tilities. These were smoothed over after several meetings. Even as they parted, however. Bull and Kosana fired shots at each other, vowing to raid each other's ranks for new members. 
As the fall — and a Kosana-Bull rematch — approacli, the debate be­gins to settle into the overall one of philosophy: unionize teachers or not? 
Kosana condemned the "strike" last May and said "the union program hasn't worked (in South Bend), as it hasn't worked elsewhere." He said "professional associations" were the proper organization fonn for teachers. 
Bull termed the federation a "pro­fessional union" and then added that "association" is preferred to "union" in terminology. 
Whatever the terminology, however, the action should resume this fall. And because of his board's salary issue, ND grad Bruggner should be back in the midst of a triangle-affair with some fellow alumni. 

BELOW—Stephen Kosana BSPE '38 MA '39, president of the South Bend Education Association, counsels a John Adams High student last May after the rift between his group and the teachers' union. Kosana remained at work during the four-day boycott. 
.\BOVE—George T. BuU AB '62 MA '64, president of the South 
Bend Federation of Teachers, conducts an English class at John 
Adams High School in South Bend after the AFL-CIO afiBIiated 
imion ended a four-day boycott of classrooms last May. 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
f--Student Government Establishes 

Committee On Negro Enrollment 
by AL VALKENAAR, Arts and Letters '66 Sioux Falls, South Dakota 
F
ATHER HESBURGH has called the racial situation, "the 
greatest moral problem of our times." It was with full 
cognizance of this fact that the Committee on Negro Enroll­
ment was established in the fall of 1964 as a subcommittee 
of the Student Government Civil Rights Commission. Its 
stated purpose was the study of Negro Enrollment at Notre 
Dame and an evaluation of the e.Kisting situation. 
That Notre Dame has a paucity of Negro students is apparent to even the most casual observer. The Committee believes that such a state of affairs is undesirable for several reasons. These may be best considered in the context of Notre Dame's role as the leading Catholic university in the world. Such a position implies strong moral and social obligations. In recent years the civil rights movement has demonstrated that racial discrimination has had deep and far-reaching implications. As our society becomes more and more complex, the American Negro is bound tighter in the grip of a vicious socioeconomic circle which prevents his acquiring the skills necessary for a full and productive member of society. In terms of human resources, the U.S. is suffering a waste it can ill afford. It has been generally concluded that the most effective remedy for this tragic situation lies in the education of the Negro. As an institu­tion of higher education, Notre Dame has die social obliga­tion to equip men for useful and productive roles in society. Notre Dame, the Committee states, has not lived up to its responsibility in this area where its efforts are most needed. 
A number of important factors are responsible for the absence of a significant number of Negro students at Notre Dame. The most ob\'ious is the economic factor. The high tuition charges and the limited number of scholarships available make Notre Dame "a rich man's school" (Fatlier Hoffman, Voice, December 12, 1964), and a majority of Negroes are found in the lower income groups. There is also a significant psychological problem. Because of the present dearth of Negro students and failure to make special efforts to attract Negro students, the Committee states, Notre Dame has an image of a "white" school. This failure to express a clear and unmistakable desire to educate Negro students, as the Committee expresses it, has resulted in a condition in which Notre Dame is not considered by Negroes planning to attend college. 
Another problem lies in the methods Notre Dame uses to attract students. While the analysis of this situation car­ries no implication of racial prejudice at work, there are a number of ways in which Notre Dame's recruiting program miUtates against the possibility of attracting qualified Negro students. Notre Dame relies heavily upon a national image for the attraction of students and, as mentioned above, this image is not attractive to Negroes. Secondly, Notre Dame does ver>' little personal recruiting. Although this is due to financial limitations, it nevertheless militates strongly against 
the Negro student who is a victim of the previously men­
tioned psychological conditions. Also, Notre Dame does 
little recruiting in public high schools and the Committee 
claims, shows even less interest in the low-income groups. 
Finally, it is not generally realized that non-Catholics are 
welcome at Notre Dame. Since a majority (although by no 
means all) of Negroes are non-Catholics, this deters ap­
plications from Negroes. 
After studying the programs of other schools, the Com­
mittee has outlined a set of specific proposals for Notre 
Dame: 
1.
 Notre Oamc should establish contact with national groups to determine the identities of able students and gain the assistance of these groups in attracting Negro students who will do well at Notre Dame. 

2.
 a) It is possible to establish contact with school officials in South Bend and the easily accessible metropolitan areas, i.e., Chicago, Detroit, and Cleveland. 


b)
 Adoption of a program of sending student-faculty teams to predominantly Negro high schools to arouse interest among the students and to identify talented ones. 

c)
 The use of alumni who have connections in the Negro community to direct good students to Notre Dame. 


3.
 The establishment of several well-publicized scholarships specifically for Negro students. 

4.
 This list of suggestions, particularly with regard to the establishment of scholarships, will require money. We suggest the inclusion of a specific category in the Challenge II drive for Negro scholarships and that these scholarships should be well publicized. The use of some of the 25 one-thousand­dollar scholarships sought already in Challenge II for this purpose is also encouraged. 


The benefits to Notre Dame, the Committee believes, are enormous. A primarily residential commimity like Notre Dame places great stress on the educational value of stu­dents living together. The present homogeneity of the Notre Dame student body makes these contacts less valuable. The presence of students from diverse backgroimds would make the concept of Notre Dame conmiunity life more meaningful and would serve to increase the social aware­ness of the Notre Dame student body. 
The time for Notre Dame to assume leadership in solving the "greatest moral problem of our time" is now. Father Hesburgh has been active on the Civil Rights Commission. Many members of tlie faculty have spoken and acted in this area, yet Notre Dame as an institution, the Committee main­tains, has been inactive. No broad solution has been pro­posed, but we believe the interrelation of factors makes it possible for a modest program to have wide influence. The large foundations are just begirming to provide funds for such programs, and they are clearly more likely to make grants to schools who have indicated their interest through their own independently established programs. The problems of the Negro in the United States, which shame all Ameri­cans and particularly Christians, can be solved when action replaces the words that have long been spoken. Such acticra is needed now. , 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 11 


Notre Dame's Om Space Problem 
with a bow to NASA (No Army Seats Available) 
W
E'LL HAVE to keep the opening whimsy brief this year, due to another kind of space problem. But we just want to say that you probably thought Ara was responsible for that great 1964 season, didn't you? He wasn't. We were. We raised the home ticket price to $5.50, remember? So Parseghian just had to come up \vith an improved product or the customers would have squawked. You say "What happened at Southern Cal"? They charged $6.00, that's what happened. So this year wt chai'ge $6.00. Now watch us go!!! 
THAT ARMY GAME 

The ticket situation for this New York renewal is so impossible that we put out a special April eight-page issue of the ALUMNUS to bring you the bad news. If you haven't read it, do so now. We'll only recap the problem in briefest form here. THE ONLY By ROBERT CAHIU, '34, Ticket Manager 
ALUMNI WHO WERE MAILED AN ORDER FORM FOR THE ARMY GAME WERE 1964 CON­TRIBUTORS RESIDING EAST OF THE MISSISSIPPI. Again, here's why: 
AvaUablc Tickets 25,000 
8,000 Eastern contributing Alumni @ 2 tickets • 
1,500 Parents of students. New York and New England @ 2 tickets 3,000 
Noire Dame Student Trip @ 1 ticket 1,500 
250 Notre Dame Stadium Bcxholders @ 2 tickets ______________ 500 
All other requirements—^Administration; Press; Coaching Staff; Squad; etc. 4,000 
25,000 

So for all new alumni, and for all old hands as a refresher (particularly you who haven't read this annual piece since our last New York Army game nineteen years ago) here's the way we've been handling — or mishandling 
— football ticket distribution. Remem­ber the following rules and privileges applied to all games EXCEPT Army, October 9. Distribution for that game was ONLY as stated above, but open­ing dates and other information held for all games. 
ADVANCE SALE PROCEDURE 
1. Contributors to the 22nd Annual Alumni Fund in 1964, religious and honorar)' degree holders, plus the June Class of 1965, were eligible for advance sale order forms for the 1965 football season. A contribution re­corded SINCE January 1, 1965, af­fords ticket priority for 1966, but NOT for this current year of 1965. Many alumni send in a year-end donation which does not reach Foundation books until after the new year; and so their ^ address plate is skipped for advance sale envelopes. 
2.
 Alumni Advance Sale opened -^ June 20, closed July 15. Any order re­ceived after that date, resrardless of the category of order form used, will receive j general use treatment. Nor is an order * filed before July 15 guaranteed a preferred location (see Paragraph 4). 

3.
 The "Alumni Advance Sale" order form carries this designation. in bold type on its face for ready identi-^ fication. Our envelopes are addressed by the Alumni Association, but filled ' and mailed by the Ticket Office. Omis­sions are usually caused by address changes, so if your address differs from that used for this issue of the ALUMNUS, ^ forward that change AT ONCE to the -Mumni Office. * 


4.
 Advance Sale forms are limited ­to TWO TICKETS per game, are not transferable, were honored until July 15 or until the ticket supply was e.x- '' hausted. SEATS ARE ALLOTTED .'' IN ACCORDANCE WITH DATE RECEIVED, modified only as follows: "" Orders arriving BEFORE opening day (June 20) are integrated at random with those received on June 20. Then, ~ at close of business June 20, all appli-_ cations received at that point are ,_J tiioroughly shuffled, DRA\VN BY LOT ~ ' AND ASSIGNED A SEQUENCE NUMBER to establish die order of seat assignment for each game for all orders on hand opening day. Since 7i three or four thousand orders for each 


of the more popular games arrived for processing on June 20 (accounting 

J2 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
for six or eight thousand tickets), obviously even a first-day order for such games could be on the fifty or beyond the goal line, DEPENDING ON THE LUCK OF THE DRAW. This is the answer to the alumnus' question as to why, although he ordered for all games on the very first day, Jie may receive fine seats for one game, poor ones for another (or fine seats for all; or poor seats for all). After Mono­gram and Season Ticket (more about Season Tickets below) orders are satis­fied, ONLY 4,000 TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE IN NOTRE DAME STADIUM BETWEEN THE GOAL AND FIFTY IN THE ALUMNI SECTION. Hence, for the more pop­ular games, it is readily seen that a first-day order could fare poorly; and an alumnus waiting to file his order until July 1 or after can expect nothing but seats behind the north goal (PLEASE LOOK AT THE DIA­
GRAM). Games away from home usually present even more seating problems because of the small allot­ment normally available to the visit­ing team in proportion to the geo­graphical balance of our following. 
GENERAL AND BLOCK SALES 

5. General Use ticket applications are mailed aimually to ALL alumni the latter part of July, prior to the August 2 opening of public sale. Gen­eral Use forms are transferable and usually valid for an unlimited quantity of tickets. THE CONTRIBUTING ALUMNUS WHO HAS ALREADY USED HIS ADVANCE SALE FORM FOR TWO TICKETS MAY PLACE ADDITIONAL ORDERS VIA THE GENERAL FORM. Moreover, the General Use form is a convenient re­minder to the noncontributing alumnus that tickets are available. These Gen­eral forms carry no locational prefer­ences, for all such orders are filled after Advance Sale purchases. 
6. Public sale opened as usual on August 1. The Ticket Committee will be glad to send public order forms to any addressee upon request as long as tickets are available. 
ALUMNI CLUBS —NOTE 
7. Alumni Clubs planning on a block of tickets (NOT AVAILABLE FOR ARMY) had to file a request with die Ticket Manager BY JUNE 20. Final action on block orders could not be taken until individual sales closed July 15, and then only if sufficient tickets remained. However, a tentative reservation was made and an Alumni Club was given preference in case of short supply. For some games no groups EXCEPT Alumni Clubs 
NOTRE OAHE STADIUM 
GArcj-4 -3-6 
awr-M 
ATCS 
am-X} 
bATC II 
may be considered. But as to seat lo­cations for groups, the following is positive: BLOCK ORDERS ARE FILLED FROM SEATS REMAIN­ING AFTER ALL INDIVIDUAL ORDERS HAVE BEEN ASSIGNED. THIS PERMITS ONLY END ZONE SEATS, INVARIABLY. 
8. Alumni Clubs frequently ask for two or more seats in "choice location" for raffle or fund-raising awards. Be­cause of the problems described in Paragraph 4, unless a Club member (or members) surrenders his Advance Sale privilege for the game desired, tickets for prizes must be of the gen­eral sale variety. 



THE SEASON TICKET SITUATION 
Each year, many alumni inquire as to whether it is to their advantage to use Alumni Advance order blanks, game by game, or buy a Season Ticket, which admits to all home games. The answer depends on what the alumnus wants. If two tickets meet his needs then he should use his Alumni Ad­vance privilege. Although this privilege doesn't guarantee preferred location (again see Paragraph 4), still the op­portimity is there. With the Season Ticket there is no alumni preference, and only end zone seats are available. However, it is $2.50 cheaper than piu:­chasing game by game. It is renew­able automatically each May 1, with no quantity limit. If location is not paramount, an alumnus may assure himself of any quantity oftickets for each game renewable each year via the Season Ticket plan. Alumni might pre­
sume, after looking over the stadium diagram, that the Season Ticket loca­tions shown in the alumni sections (Sections 8 and 9) are held by, and available to, alumni only. Not so. These Season Tickets were available to any­one prior to 1943, when the alimmi section was more than adequate. Be­cause of the renewal feature of Season Tickets, removal of these patrons from alunmi sections is a slow process. How­ever, we have not sold any Season Tickets in Sections 8 and 9 SINCE 1942. The Season Ticket sale opens an­nually on May 1 and we shall be glad to send complete information upon request. 
Notrt Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 -13 
the door till it gave way. The men of 
the woods were just as rugged as the missionary. They came to attend Mass, 
not to listen to long sermons. 


MAN and the 
The zeal of Father Badin is his last­


MOMENT 
By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '41 
Rea Stephen Badin, a 'Man on the Go* 
A
NY LAD who goes tlirough Notre Dame knows tliere is a Badin Hall. And if he had ever visited the Log Chapel he would have noticed a marker in the middle of the floor of tliat small chapel. It is a grave. On the wall there is a large plaque gi\'ing a brief story of Father Badin. That is it. Older alumni — and by older I don't mean too, too old — will re­member a place called Badin Bog. That was the scene for many a softball game. It was also the scene for many a mud puddle. The Hammes Bookstore moved into the outfield. Basketball courts took, over short-center field. Progress is the word. And folks who know say you can't stop it. Rightly so. But I hope the day never comes when progress or anything else blocks out or blurs the names and memories of those who fought so long, and worked so hard, and died so bravely to give us what we have. 
One of those who helped to build the present was a man named Badin. Young Stephen Badin was the first priest to be ordained in the United States. That was in 1793. He had come to this country from France the previous year. He was a young man of twenty-five when ordained, and he had miles to go and much to do before the good Lord called him to Himself. 
Father Badin was a hardy indixadual. He had to be to live eighty-five years in a rough wilderness. He spent twenty-six years on the Kentucky missions and estimated his travels in the neighbor­hood of 100,000 miles. That's a lot of road. Today we tend to boast about our travel mileage. But we travel in fancy jets and sleek liners. We grumble if a plane is late or if the service is not fast enough in getting us our cocktails. We are a spoiled people. Old Father Badin, if he were alive today, would tell us off in no uncertain terms. He was a tjTant and would tolerate no nonsense. His bite was worse than his bark. 
Perhaps the best way to picture the man would be to consider his abilitj-, his piet}', his zeal. A man of the mis­sions had to be capable ol some learn­ing. Badin was capable. Because of his travels he did not have an opportunit}' to do much reading. Yet, when Perr)­beat the English on Lake Erie, Father Badin wrote a poem in Latin. This could mean his English was not the best. But it also means he was some­what at home in Latin. He also or­ganized well and knew how to be ver\' businesslike in acquiring propert)' for the Church. 
No writing from the past ever men­tions that Father Badin was a saint. The fact is he was a cantankerous hur­ricane of energ)' and impatience. He was tlie "man on the go" type. One sentence from an old Scholastic saj-s, "His greatest delight was to preach the word of God and sing High Mass, even at a late hour." He was not brief in his sermons, and oftentimes his congre­gation was far-from-captive audience. When he would turn to speak, many of them would head for the exit. The impatient Badin did not take this as a compliment. Once he had the door locked on them. They waited till the sermon was over, then leaned asainst 
ing monument When he finished his work in Kentucky, he was sent back to France to recruit for Bishop Flaget of Bardstown. He could have stayed on in France, but he returned after a stay of five years and visited his brother. Father Vincent Badin, in Detroit. Chief Pokagon was in Detroit at the time asking for a priest for his people. Father Badin, then a man of SL\-ty, rode back wdth the chief. The year is 1828. The plans of Badin were to start schools and to cover the missions. As we said earlier. Father Badin was a bundle of energ)'. He got a charter for his orphan asylum from the Indiana State legislature in 1833. It is hard to imagine why he picked a spot near a frozen lake to do his building. Pokagon's village would seem to be more appropriate. But even then — to work wth aid for the Indians was one thing; to be a dweller in their midst was another. And besides, even though Father Badin was loved by the Indians, he knew he would have to build where the white man would be of help to him. And Father Badin also knew he would not alwa)'s be aroimd to settle disputes. The dynamic little priest covered an area from Fort Wa)'ne to Chicago. The attempt to organize an orphans' school at Notre Dame lasted only about a year. Father Badin turned over the land to Bishop Brute, the bishop of the diocese. Thus begins the story of Father Sorin and a place called Notre Dame. Thus begins and never ends a love stor)' where the bones of Father Badin rest quietly on the shores of a lake in a land he loved. 

ORDINATION CLASS of 1965 at Holy Cross CoUcge included: (from left) Rev. Anatole Byaruhanga of the Diocese of Ft. Portal, Uganda, East Africa (to be ordained by Bishop McCauley CSC); Rev. David Foley CSC, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada; Rev. James E. Gallagher CSC, Chicago; Rev. William G. Blmn CSC, Pitts­burgh; Rev. Leonard J. Biallas CSC, Pontiac, Mich.; Rev. John A. Struzzo CSC, Kansas' City, Kan.; Rev. Robert E. Bennett CSC, Midland, Mich.; Rev. Jerome F. Keating CSC, Chicago; Rev. William Lewers CSC, Kansas City, Mo.; and Rev. Denis 
Warburton CSC, St Catharines, Ontario, Canada. All are ND Class of '61 but Fr. Gallagher '60 and Fr. Lewers, grad school '58. Frs. Foley and Warburton are viitb the Anglo-Canadian Province. Midwest Province priests were set for ordination by Bishop Pursley in Sacred Heart Church June 9: Frs. Bennett, Blum, Biallas, Keating, Gallagher, Lewers, Struzzo and Rev. J. David Burke CSC '60 
(not shown). Orange, N.J., who has been teaching at Notre Dame High, Niles, HI. 
14 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
Alumni in Art" IV: 
Bill Green, Pioneer in 'Opulent Pop' 
' I ^HE TER.M "pop art" is itself a popular "catchall" expression, but it does 
-•- sen'e to characterize a body of contemporary work in a \-ariety of media, stj-les and subjects somehow identifying with the "iiilgar" public conscious­ness while subtly subjecting it to sly social criticism. Bringing a new opulence of form and technique to typical "pop" subjects is Bill Green '64, a young Chicago prize mnner bom in Shawano, ^Vis. 
After a childhood in towns throughout Wisconsin and Southern Illinois, Bill came to ND from St. Joseph's High, Kenosha, Wis. Recei^ng the Jacques Silver Medal with his BFA in June of last year, he is married and resides on Chicago's Near North §idc, where he's affiliated with Ontario East Gallery. He had a two-man show (mth Francois Delagret) at Ontario East in May and June. 
Bill has e.\hibited in competitive shows throughout the Midwest and par­ticularly in the Chicago area, among them: Chicago Art Institute (William 
H. Bartels Prize, Chicago & Vicinity Show, 1965; Louis Ritman Prize, Chi­cago & Vicinity Show, 1964), Ball State College Art Gallery (1963), South Bend Art Center (1964), Chicago Arts Festival (1963), Fort Wayne Art Museum (1963), Mundelein College (1963), St. Mary's College (1964). 
ELEMENTS of "Pop," "Op," surrealism and Dada-ist collage are combined in "Pelicidad's Dream," 48-by-20-inch con­struction in glass case, awarded Chicago's Louis Ritman Prize last year. Common objects are given a reverse trompe-Voeil effect. 

MACABRE SUBJECTS in a series of posterlike canvases entitled "Car U^reck" make Bill seem the Toulouse-Lautrec of the National Safety Council, Ostensibly brutal and primitive, they are highly sophisticated expressionism in modeling and design. "Car Wreck No. I" oil (above) on 52-inch-square canvas shows livid occupant in attitude reminiscent of Degas' "Absinthe." Nearly si.x feet high, "Car Wreck No. 5" in oil and charcoal graphically depicts the absence of seat belts, won the $500 Bartels Prize in Chicago. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 15 







PkmiHg your Estate 
(Excerpts from the Portfolio of Philanthropy. For further information write: Director of 
II. SECURITIES-AN IDEAL GIFT Deferred Giving, Notre Dame Foundation.) 
Securities that have risen in value make an ideal gift to the University and can mean substantial tax savings for you. 
You can deduct the current market value of the securi­ties from your taxable income up to the 30% maximum limit in any one year. You can carry over the excess for the next five years as a deduction. 
You will avoid payment of capital gains tax. 
If you hold securities which have depreciated in value, sell the securities, take the deduction for the loss in value; and then make a gift of the proceeds from the sale to the University.. 
Some other forms of gifts of securities are: 
A Gift of a Stock Option 
A Donative Sale of Securities 

A discussion and review of your intentions with your broker or banker is recommended for a contemplated gift of securities to assure your obtaining the maximum tax benefits. 
A gift of securities often results in much greater tax savings than a gift out of income. This table shows why: 
If your taxable A Gift of Securities now worth $1,000 income is:** but which originally cost you: 
(1) (2) (3) (4) $ 100 $ 500 $ 900 
Means your $1,000 gift will cost you: 
$ 5,000  $724.50  $762.50  $800.50  
10,000  681.00  725.00  769.00  
15,000  637.50  687.50  737.50  
20,000  536.00  600.00  664.00  
30,000  434.50  512.50  590.50  
40,000  304.00  400.00  515.20  
50,000  275.00  375.00  475.00  
100,000  155.00  255.00  355.00  

*adjusted gross income, minus standard deductions and personal exfiense (joint—^husband and wife) 
CEDAR POINT—The annual Notre Dame Midwest Fanuljr Festival at Cedar Point took place over the July 9-11 weekend, widi ahnnni, family and friends.enjoying the Idke Erie beaches of Rockne's youth and the modem amusement area. Also ananged Im the weekend were a golf tourney for the men, a fireworks show and a dance, with the Rockne Memorial Mas dom^ the wedcend Sunday. The festival is an annual affair that draws ND grads faom all of the midwest, with, several hundred of the more than 6,000 alumni in the area attending. Cedar Point features a "Disneyland" type amusement area widi antique cars, restaurants, cable-car rides and a recent addition that re-creates the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. PMKS UK an rides were sold to alumni and llieir funilies at reduced rates. A marina and hotd facilities were availaUe for an atteading. 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
Ghana Ambassador Writes Of Easter with the Dagarti 
By WILLIAM P. MAHONEY JR. '38 
U.S. Ambassador to Ghana 
Past Alumni President William Mahoney wrote this letter last spring as he was com­pleting a third year as American Ambassador to Ghana. Bill, his wife Alice and their eight children lined in the capital city of Accra. Except for two daughters at Marymount International School in Rome, the children and Alice had returned to their home in Phoenix, Ariz., at the time of this letter. 
S
INCE COMING to Ghana, I have enter­tained a desire to spend Holy Week with the White Fathers in the north, and last month I had my wish. 

I 
First, a word about the White Fathers. .As you may know, this is a missionary order which originated in France and is 
exclusively devoted to .Africa. They began their work among the Arabs of northern .Africa about 100 years ago and soon spread south of the Sahara. (Last fall in Rome, 22 of their converts who were martyred in Uganda became saints.) 
Geographically, my trip began on April 13 at Tamale, 400 miles north of Accra. That afternoon I drove 80 miles west to Damongo, near Ghana's only wild game reserve, where I was in time for late-after­noon Maundy Thursday Mass and dinner 
r at the mission. Just as the Mass ended, a violent rainstorm struck, ending the six-month dry season that governs the life of this semi-Saharan terrain. 
.At Damongo, in addition to the usual mission activities, including the operation of a leprosarium, the White Fathers have a small agricultural school which not only turns out graduate farmers, but settles them on nearby land and launches them safely in this most essential activity. 
n 
That night I drove on in the rainstorm another 15 miles and spent the night with the game warden of the Mole Reserve. The next morning I took off for the "White Father Country," arriving at Wa shortly ' '" after noon on Good Friday. 
Dagarti, Victims of Nature 

r 
*^-^ Wa is the residence of Bishop Dery, a brilliant and handsome apostle to the large Dagarti tribe. Dery was "discovered" among I the Dagarti 30 years ago by the White 
Fathers. By 3 p.m. 1 was in Dafiema and Good 
- Friday services were under way. The large 
but very humble church was full. vf The Dagarti people, more than half of (°#j whom are Catholic, are extremely poor. 
Victims of a hellish cycle of sue months of dry weather and six months of torrential rain, they are in especially drastic circum­
* stances this year because last year's rains 
were very light. To be specific, the average person now eats a full meal every three days. Our Food for Peace program, admin­istered in this part of Ghana by the Catholic Social Service, keeps thousands alive with free gifts of flour, rice, and dried milk. 
That afternoon at Daliema, I am frank to say that I was shocked by their poverty. .Although I have seen much of it in Ghana, I was not prepared for this scene. Most of the women were bare to the waist, nursing and cuddling babies who were naked and thin. Their clothing below the waist was in tatters. Most men were similarly attired. But their simple faith and devotion were overwhelming. The adoration of the Cross took a good 45 minutes. Each person re­moved his sandals—and many had none— before kneeling to kiss the Cross. 
GERHARD MEMORIAL: FRUITS OF HIS TOIL 
Dr. WUIiam A. Gerhard Ph.D. '48, an associate professor of philosophy at Brooklyn College, died December 19 at his home in West Hempstead, N.Y. 
-A St. Louis native, Gerhard re­ceived his BA and MA degrees from St. Louis Universit)' in 1939 and 1941, respectively. Later he was ap­pointed to the editorial staff of the Syntopicon of the Great Books of the Western World, under the direction of Dr. Mortimer J. Adier with the Uni­versity of Chicago. 
In recognition of his work on the Great Books, three alumni are donat­ing a set of the Great Books of the Western World to the University as a Gerhard memorial. The donors are Dr. Kenneth A. Forbes, M.D., BS '44 of Green Bay, Wis.; Jackson B. Chung BS '42 MS '44 of Mishawaka, Ind.; and Albert Cizauskas MA '45 of the 
U.S. Embassy in Bonn, Germany. Dr. Gerhard was also a faculty member at both the University of Chi­cago and Loyola University of Chi­cago from 1946 to 1949, when he joined the faculty of Brooklyn College. Prof. Martin E. Lean, chairman of the department of philosophy at Brooklyn College said, "He (Dr. Ger­hard) was greatly interested in, and aroused great student interest in, phe­nomenology, existentialism and the philosophical aspects of modem lit­erature. "To all of these tasks he brought independence of judgment and fresh­ness of vision," concluded Prof. Lean. 
Dr. Gerhard is survived by his widow and five daughters. 

After the service I drove on to Jiripa which is known for its splendid hospital and mission. 
True Medical Vocatiini 

I spent the night at the hospital as the guest of the Sisters and the resident surgeon, a Filipino who finished his medical educa­tion in the United States. To convey what a medical vocation means in this part of the world, this young man operates six days a week. His "income": board and room plus a nominal salary. I have met men of his kind many times in Ghana. Shades of AMA! 
The next morning I took off for Nandom. 
Nandom is at the very northwest comer 

of Ghana and at the center of the Dagarti 
tribe. Ghana has nothing more *%ush" than 
Nandom. The oijy recent excitement prior 
to the American Ambassador's arrival had 
occurred the week before: a herd of ele­
phants had graced the village with a visit. 
The scene at Nandom is quite unworldly. 

A small village that developed in the shadow 
of a mission, it is dominated by the church 
which comJFortably accommodates 5000. 
There are schools, a hospital, a convent for 
the Sisters, and a residence for the priests. 
Although there is no running water, few 
lights, limited food and year-aroimd heat, I 
have never encountered happier priests and 
people. 
Thousands Walk M3es 

Although the Easter Vigil services were 
not to begin until 11 p.m., people started 
arriving around the church four hours early, 
some people walking as far as 20 miles. By 
9 p.m. there were thousands, and most were 
wildly dancing and singing. 
By the time Mass began, the church was packed to capacity and many more were outside at windows and doors. It was a long service with several Dagarti hymns. One had the impression it was clearly the high point of the year for these people. It took four priests over 30 minutes to give out Com­munion. We left the church at 2:30 ajn. 
One of the chief reasons I had com: to Nandom was to hear the Mass composed by Bishop Dery and sung in Dagarti. The only instruments—there are no organs in this part of the world—were the native xylo­phone, drums and tom-toms. The entire congregation sings the Mass—6000 sonorous voices. There is nothing self-conscious or contrived in their singing and the effect is as natural as breathing. Little wonder, since from infancy they sing and dance prac­tically every day of their lives. 
Sunday afternoon I left Nandom and started toward Tamale 300 miles away. At Tamale on Monday morning I caught a plane back to Accra and the complicated modem world. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 17 
NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL 
by Thomas L. ShafFer L'61 
Honors Banquet 

Lewis Powell, president of the American Bar Association, addressed Law School faculty and students and members of the St. Joseph County Bar Association at the annual Law Honors Banquet May 3 in South Bend. This was the 8th consecutive year in which the banquet, a joint obser­vance of Law Day U.S..^., has been ad­dressed by the incumbent president of the national association. 
Annual Symposium 
The Law School's annual spring sym­

posiiun \vas held in the Memorial Audi­
torium on March 27; this year's subject was 
"Violence in the Streets — 1964" and 
brought seven nationally prominent speak­
ers to the campus to discuss racial riots and 
teen-age and college violence. These in­
cluded Dr. Gerstin Goldin, psychiatrist at 
the Columbia College of Physicians and 
Surgeons; Prof. Allen D. Grimshaw of the 
Indiana University Sociology Department; 
Commissioner Howard R. Leary of the Phil­
adelphia Police Department; Dean Joseph 
Lohman, School of Criminology, University 
of California, Berkeley; Arnold Sagal>Ti, 
United States representative for Interpol; 
William Stringfellow, New York attorney 
and author; and Roy Wilkins, executive di­
rector of the National Association for the 
Advancement of Colored People. .Attendance at this year's s>'mposium, which was man­aged and chaired by Professor Thomas F. Broden, Jr., was unusually hea\-)'; the audi­toriiun was filled throughout most of the day. The symposium papers will be pub­lished in a special issue of The Notre Dame Lawyer later this year. 

Faculty Materials 

Ten courses and five of six elective semi­nars in the Law School are now taught from books or sets of materials developed by members of the faculty. These include two courses in contracts, which use Professor Edward Murphy's two-volume casebook; professional rcsponsibilit>*, which uses ma­terials developed by Professor John T. Noonan; introduction to law, which uses Professor Shaffer's "Readings on Common Law Method"; legislation, which uses ma­terials developed by Professor Rodes; natural 
18 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 
law and jurisprudence, which use the new two-volume "Cases and ^laterials on Nat­ural Law and Legal Process," by Profes­sors Broden and Rodes; the practice court, which uses Professor Barrett's "Practice Court Manual" and factual situations pre­pared by Professor Barrett; and the prop­erty settlement courses which, beginning next fall, %vill use Professor Shaffer's "Problems and Readings in Propertj' Settlement." 

Justice Brennan 

Associate Justice William J. Brennan Jr., of the Supreme Court of the United States, visited the campus on April 21 to deliver the year's final O'Hara lecture, sponsored by the College of Business Administration. Justice Brennan was guest at a joint lun­cheon of the commerce and law faculties and later spent a social hour with members of the law faculty. 

Placement 

Seven June graduates have, at this writ­ing, accepted clerkships in the federal courts. They are Kevin AV. Carey; Richard 
D. Catenacci; Michael G. Farrar; John M. Lamont; Larry E. Shinnick, Michael D. Sullivan; and Steven A. ^Val2. Femand N. Dutile, another June graduate, has been appointed to the Civil Rights Division of the United States Department of Justice, as part of the Department's Recruitment Program for Honor Law Graduates. 

Faculty Notes 

Professors Blakey, Rodes and Noonan participated in a month-long series of lec­tures on "Christianity and Government" at the First Presbyterian Church, South Bend, in Februar)'. 
Professor Noonan acted as the consultant on history to the Papal Commission on Population, the Family and Natality, and attended the first plenar>' session of the Commission in Rome, March 25-28. Profes­sor Noonan's book. Contraception: A His­tory of the Teaching of the Catholic The­ologians and Canonists, will be published by the Harvard University Press on May 31. 
Rev. William Lewers C.S.C., at the re­quest of Dean O'Meara, has been appointed assistant professor of law; he will begin teaching the first-year course in torts in 
1965 
September. Father Lewers is a lawyer and 
was, before entering the congregation, a 
member of the law faculties at the Uni­
versity of Illinois and the University of 
Kentucky. He was ordained in June. 
Associate Professor John J. Broderick has 

been promoted to a full professorship and 
relieved of his administrative duties in order 
to devote all of his time to teaching the 
course in torts for combination students and 
the second-year courses in labor law and 
evidence. Professor Thomas F. Broden, Jr., 
1
has been appointed Assistant Dean. Professor Broden has been designated a Knight of the Order of St. Gregory by Pope Paul VI, in recognition of his community activities and of his service to the Church. Professor Edward Murphy addressed the Catholic Forum in South Bend on February 
16. He discussed legislation before the Indi­ana General Assembly which would have given cash assistance and school-bus trans­portation to students in non-public schools. 
Professor Blakey represented America magazine at an awards ceremony at Lin­coln University in St. Louis in March. The university presented its Human Relations ' Award to the magazine, based on a series of articles which included Professor Blakey's "Unions, Discrimination and Title VII of The Ci\-il Rights Act of 1964." 
Alumni 

Daniel R. Webber '61L has been ap­
pointed assistant prosecutor for Saginaw 
County, Michigan. He ^vas, until recently, 
assistant city attorney in Saginaw. The 
story of Mr. Webber's education at the Law ,• 
School was featured in an explanation of 
the activities of Recording for the Blind 
in the December Rotarian magazine, an ­
article condensed and reprinted in the .^.*^ 
.•\pril Reader's Digest. 
David C. Petre '64L was given honorar)-* * mention in the 1964 Nathan Burkan Me-~^ morial Competition for his note, "Statutory 1 Copyright Protection for Books and Maga­zines Against Machine Copying," which ap­peared in The Notre Dame Lawyer last year. Mr. Petre won first prize in the •"' • Burkan competition at the Law School; the contest is sponsored by the American So-* * ciety of Composers and Publishers. He is now employed in the legal department of ,' ' Xerox Corporation. 
H. Clay Johnson "32, '34L, a member of the Law Ad\'isor>' Council, has been ap­pointed United States Manager and Presi­dent of the Royal-Globe Insurance Com­
n

panies in New York. He has been Deputy 
United States Manager for the company and 
its Vice President and General Counsel since 
1952. He is also president of the Insurance 
Information Institute, chairman of the ex­
ecutive committee of the Multi-Line In­
surance Rating Bureau, a member of the '' 
Law and Legislation Committee of the 
American Insurance -Association and a trus­
tee of the College of Insurance. 
Balfe Richard Wagner '64L is ser\-ing as a first lieutenant in the Staff Judge Advo­cate's corps, in Korea. 
:i 
George P. Michaely Jr. '48, '56L, has ^vs•! been appointed Chief Counsel, Division of .^ Corporate Finance, of the Securities Ex-/ ^ change Commission. He was until recently in the office of the General Counsel of the SEC. 
BY JAMES P. HARNISCH 



Zk Student Slant 
Secretary Notre Dame Class of 1965 
T
HE PAST few months have witnessed the 
manifestation of inherent qualities in 
Notre Dame men. In this period large 
groups of ND students pitched in to help 
reconstruct local tornado disaster areas, a 
testimonial banquet was organized by the 
students for Father Hesburgh, and a scholar­
ship fund was established by the Senior 
Class. In the waning weeks of the spring 
semester club sports have become firmly en­
trenched in the athletic scene. The tortu­
ous St. Joseph River has been the proving 
ground of the newly formulated Crew Team, 
and the Rugby Club aspired to new heights 
upon being declared the Unofficial National 
Champion of 1964-65. 
Class of 1965 Scholarship Fund 
From a once obscure school in the northern Indiana wilderness the University has progressed in just over a century to a great institution of higher learning, rec­ognized the world over for the high caliber of its instruction and research. Commen­surate with this progress has been a sharp increase in tuition e-spenses. The Class of 1965 has recognized the financial burden of a college education and has dedded to help alleviate the problem for a few fortunate individuals. 
The first to be benefited by the Class of 1965 Scholarship Fund will be our progeny. Priorit)- in the distribution of the scholar­ship will be given to the sons of the mem­bers of our Class who contribute $200 to this fund between June 1965 and June 1975. It is hoped that 1,000 members of our Class will pledge their donations. If this goal is achieved, then by 1985, the first year the scholarship is in existence, interest on the principle will have increased the en­dowment to $400,000. On the basis of merit and need, partial or full scholarships will be awarded the sons of the Class of 1965. When it is clear that no more scholarship aid will be needed due to the attrition of qualified recipients, the re­mainder of the fund (hopefully $100,000) 
will be turned over to the general Notre Dame Scholarship Fund. 
Ch-er 150 workers have been involved in promulgating the program. Administration of the endowment will be handled by the Class of 1965 Scholarship Fund Trustees (Class officers and appointed individuals) in conjunction with the University. The Scholarship Fund is designed to be a secure investment in the future of Notre Dame for the sons of the Class of 1965. 
Other noteworthy functions of the Senior Class have included the Annual Senior Din­ner, sponsored in conjunction with the Alumni Association, and a most memorable Senior Ball. At the Senior Dinner Rev. John Walsh "tactfully" reminded us that it is never too early to remember Notre Dame in our wills, insurance policies and stock dividends. Glenn Miller's orchestra helped to create the exotic and colorful atmosphere of the Senior Ball. The dance was the culmination of an entire week of activities which featured such events as an 
Bellamy's "Father Hesburgh' 

exhibition by the world-renowned pool artist, Willie Mosconi, and a golf trick shot demonstration by the equally famous Paul Hahn. 
Response To Disaster 

On Sunday, .April 11, a series of tornadoes struck northern Indiana with devastating effects. Sections of communities close to South Bend were leveled to a state of com­plete rubble. Help was badly needed to clear the immense destruction, and the help came in the form of about 300 students who offered to assist in the cleanup opera­tions. Hard-hit communities such as Dunlap, Lakeville and Wyatt received help from ND students. Buses, cars and Air Force ROTC weapons carriers were used to transport the much-appreciated student volunteers to the disaster areas. In the ensuing days there were day-to-day forays of at least twenty students. An interesting note of the project is that a major part of the numerous volun­teer contingents seems to have been archi­tecture students. 
Students Pay Tribute To Father Hesburgh 

As an expression of student gratitude for Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh's manifest concern for Notre Dame and her students, over 800 students gathered at a testimonial banquet to pay tribute to him. Prior to the dinner Mass \vas offered for his inten­tions in all the University chapels, and later in the evening he was presented with a spiritual bouquet. During the dinner, a captivating oil portrait of Fr. Hesburgh was presented to him by the artist, John Bellamy, a senior fine arts major. Telegrams from such men as former President Eisen­hower, former CIA Chief John McCone, Peace Corps Director Sargent Shriver, and Peter Grace, president of the Board of Lay Trustees, were also read. The telegrams all 
'Spring' 
(See overleaf) 
reflected the same deep respect and admira­
tion shared by the students for the accom­
plishments of Father Hesburgh. It is my 
personal feeling that this testimonial banquet 
is also conclusive evidence of the rapport 
that exists between Father Hesburgh and 
the students. We are indeed fortunate to 
have such an industrious, dynamic and ca­
pable man as head of the University. His 
thirteen years as president have benefited not 
only Notre Dame but Catholic education as 
a whole. Mr. Frank O'Malley, professor of 
English, remarked that the greatest single 
achievement of Father Hesburgh has been 
the atmosphere he has created. "It is an 
atmosphere of freedom and flexibility and 
good will, an atmosphere that has made of 
this University a human as well as an 
academic community. Father Hesburgh is 
able to generate this spirit because, in spite 
of all his experience and knowledge, he is 
still capable of wonder. He is still open to 
people, to existence, to ideas." 
Science Centennial and Stay-Hall 

A special convocation was held May 15 to mark the Centennial of Science at the University. A unique featuire of the highly successful event was the gathering together of twelve of the world's leading scientists, seven of them Nobel laureates. Father Hes­burgh conferred honorary doctor of law degrees on the twelve eminent scientists. A highlight of the ceremonies was the address of Prof. Michael Polanyi, celebrated physi­cal chemist and philosopher from Man­chester and Oxford Universities in England, on the creative imagination. 
New developments on freshman stay-hall residence (N.B. Vide spring issue) neces­sitate a brief consideration. The major dif­ficulty encountered to date has been the fulfillment of quotas in the three experi­mental halls (Alumni, Dillon, and Farley). Upperclassmen have been cajoled and coerced without success into matriculating next year in Farley. Preparations have been made to facilitate the acclimation of the freshmen-to-be to this new program. Yet from all indications, the concept of fresh­man stay-hall residence will never ma­terialize into the proposed idealized state unless the synergistic factors of upperclass­ism are first eradicated. 
Conclusion 

About 1,169 seniors were awarded bach­elor's degrees on Sunday, June 6, during Notre Dame's 120th annual commencement celebration. Among the activities available for graduates and their visitors were per­formances of "The Threepenny Opera" by the University Theatre and a series of band concerts. Receptions, processions and parties were in abundance. The Class of 1965 moves into history. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 19 
GERMAN CONVOCATION —Dr. Hein­rich Krone, minister for special ailairs of the West German Federal Republic, receives an honorary Doctor of Laws degree after delivering an address on "Germans and Nuclear Weapons" at a special campus convocation Alarch 23. Shown with Dr. Krone are (left to right) Karl Hcinrich Knappstcin, German ambassador to the United States; Rev. Theodore M. Hcs­burgh CSC, University president; and Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to Fr. Hcsburgh and state commissioner for Bavaria in the U.S. zone of Germany in 1950-51. 
ARTIST'S VISIT—.Artist Marc Chagall (right) stands beside his famed painting, "The Grand Circus," after reccii-ing an honorary Doctor of Fine Arts degree from the University April 5. Here with Chagall are Rev. Theodore Hesbun;h CSC, University president, and Gustav Stern (center), head of the Gustav Stem Foundation, Inc., which has loaned the Chagall painting to the Notre Dame gallery. Chagall met informally with faculty members and students in the art department during a four-day visit to the campus. 


Spring Semester Offers Academic 


KALEIDOSCOPE 
UNION-MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE -Rev . Mark Fitzgerald CSC (left), conference founder and director, introduces three conference speakers to Rev. Edmund Joyce CSC, Notre Dame executive vice-president. Left to right are Father Fitz­gerald; George Burden, president, United Rubber Workers, Akron, Ohio; Thomas 
A. Tracy, executive secretary of the 
%

National Mediation Board, Washington, D.C.; Malcolm L. Denise, vice-president for labor relations. Ford Motor Co., Detroit, Mich.; and Father Joyce. More than 600 union and industry ofEcials attended the 13th annual conference. 
CENTENNIAL OF SCIENCE — Rev. Tlieodore M. Hcsburgh CSC, center, president of the University, conferred honorary Doctor of Laws degrees on 12 men of science during a special convocation held on campus May 15. Receiving degrees were (front row, left to right) Dean Adrian Albert, division of physical sciences, Univ. of Chicago; Prof. Melvin Calvin, director chemical biodynamics laboratory, Univ. of California, Berkeley; Prof. Michael Polanyi, chemist, Oxford, England; Fr. Hcsburgh; Dr. Donald Homig, special assistant to President Johnson for Science and Technology; Crawford Greenewalt, chairman of the board, duPont Co., Wilmington, Del.; Prof. Karl Hctzfeld, head of department of physics. Catholic Univ., Washington, D.C.; (second row, left to right) Dr. Arthur Komberg, executive head, department of biochemistry, Stanford Univ., Stanford, Calif.; Prof. Edward Tatum, Rockefeller Institute, New York, N.Y.; Dr. Charles H. Townes, provost at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.; Dr. Harold C. Urey, r prof, of chemistry, Univ. of California; Dr. James D. Watson, prof, of biology, Har\-ard Univ.; and Dr. Eugene P. Wigner, Princeton Univ., physicbt in research at Oak Ridge, Tenn. All recipients, except Polanyi, are members of the National Academy of Sciences. Calvin, Komberg, Tatum, Townes, Urey, Watson and Wigner arc Nobel Prize winners. 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
TH E PROBLEM OF POPULATION: PRAC­TICAL CATHOLIC APPLICATIONS, ed­ited by George N. Shuster '15 (Notre Dame Press, $1.25). The views of theologians, medical ex­
perts and welfare personnel at a hither­to ofT-the-record University conference are compiled by Dr. Shuster, assistant 
THEOLOGICAL SYMPOSIUM — Rev. .•\lbcrt Schlitzer CSC (extreme left), head of the University's department of thcolojjy greets participants in a symposium on "Christ and Conscience Today" held on campus Nov. 30-Dec. 2. They are (left to right) Rev. Richard McConiiick SJ, of Bcllarniinc School of Theology, Aurora, III.; Dr. Louis Duprcm, associate prof, of philosophy at Georgetown University; Rev. John Ronianidce, prof, of theology at Holy Cross Orthodox Seminary, Brook-line, Mass.; Dr. Mary Calderene, executive director of the Se.x Infonnation and Education Council of the U.S.; and Dr. Paul Heyns, prof, of philosophy at Valparaiso University. Not pictured is another symposium speaker, Dr. John G. Bennett, president of Union Theological Seminary, New York City. 
BUILDING DEDICATION —Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, University president, blesses the new architecture facilities in the remodeled old library building in ceremonies May I. Others at the ceremonies were Dean Pietro Belluschi of the school of architecture, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, principle speaker (left); Dean Norman 
R. Gay of the Notre Dame College of Engineering (right) and Prof. Frank Montana, head of the architecture department (e-xtreme right). The old library was remodeled in a contemporary design at a cost of $250,000. 
to the president of Notre Dame, with 
papers by national specialists in mar­
riage and family life. The conference 

was second in a series of three co-spon­
sored by the University and the Chi­
cago Cana Conference and supported 
by the Ford Foundation. The introduc­
tion stresses disastrous population 
trends, the inevitability of procreation 
control and challenges for public policy 
and private morality. 
POETRY AND POLITICS, by Mortimer J. 
Adler, LL.D. '52 (Duqucsne Univer­
sity Press, $4.95). 

This volume comprises selected and revised chapters from a 1937 work by the now Director of the Institute for Philosophical Research, entitled Art and Prudence. The foreword of the present edition is by Samuel Plazo, '48, one of our outstanding poet-educators. Current conditions have revitalized the considerations of the relations of the poet, and art, and aesthetics to the world about them. .As Mr. Hazo says, "Certainly poetiy"s social echoes are as unmistakable now as tliey have been in the past. Many of the supra-aesthetic problems raised by Greek and Shake­spearean tragedy are again raised by the poetry of today as it is manifested in verse, fiction or the contemporary film. Dr. Adler has shown that all the questions that should be asked of and about poetr\- need not be exclusively aesthetic." 
.\ GUIDEBOOK TO HISTORIC VINCENNES, 
INDIANA, by James D. ('31) and 
Marie Lucier McQuaid (City,$2.00). 
This 100-page book seeks to describe 

the history, people and sites of the oldest city in Indiana. Written by a husband and wife team who have com­piled several such guidebooks, this pa­perback contains 12 color photographs in addition to numerous black and white photos, maps and drawings. 
Arranged on a six by nine inch for­mat, the guidebook is in the easy-to­read style required for sightseeing. Even the advertisements are helpful, offering information concerning res­taurants, amusements, hotels, etc.; the type of facts any traveler to the area would appreciate knowing. SEMINARY EDUCATION IN A TIME OF 
CHANGE, edited by Rev. Louis J. Piitz CSC, AB '32, and Dr. James Michael Lee (Fides Publishers. Inc., $5.75). 

"No permanent or effectual reform and renewal within the Church can transpire unless there is first a refonii and renewal within the seminaries." 
NOTRE DAME 


BOOKS 
declare the co-editors of this work, 
bodi members of the Universitj' faculty. 
But the book is more than an opin­

ion of these two men; they have com­
piled essays by 12 other writers seek­
ing to bring the level of seminary train­
ing and education in line with the 
The essays consider the history and various educational practices followed by several seminaries, both old and new. Drawing from university and sem­inar)' faculties for their authors, the editors have compiled an informative book from competent sources. 
The Februaiy-March issue had a re­view of the first 12 titles of the color­ful Little People's Paperback series of George A. Pflaum, Publisher, Inc., of Dayton, Ohio, mentioning (besides Author Gerald Pottebaum '56) key executives like President George Pflaum Jr. '54, Bill Pflaum '61 and John De­fant '48. President Pflaum has written in to announce that there are now 15 titles in this popular Bible-story series, adding: "Even more important, how­ever, is to let you know that our com­pany benefits from the talents of alumni that were not mentioned in your re­view. Treasurer M. Richard Burkholder '39, Operations Manager Leo Condron '49, Field Representative John Evans '49, and Associate Editor Terry Shea '61 bring the total number of Notre Dame alumni on our staff to eight. This represents eight per cent of our total staff, and I wonder if many other companies can match this record." 
Rev. Thomas Chambers CSC '56 is author of "Facts for Counselors in High School," in a treatment of the college freshman, pp. 792-801 of The Catholic Educator, April, 1965. Too lengthy to reprint here, the article of­fers valuable advice for recognizing the potential dropouts who represent 40% of college applicants. 
Five Notre Dame professors have contributed articles to the 1965 edition of the Encyclopedia Americana. They are Paul C. Bartholomew '29, "Consti­tutional Law"; Milton Burton, "Photo­chemistry"; James Corbett, "13th Cen­tury"; G. F. Hennion '32, "Reppe Chemistr)'"; and Bernard J. Kohlbren­ner, "Education in the Roman Catholic Church." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 21 
« IN MEMORIAM 
faculty,.. 
CHARLES DE KONINCK 


Three Processors Retire ^ut Uafee* Stay^s as Coach 
T
HREE MEMBERS of the Xotre Dame fac­uhy announced their retirement from the classroom last spring. One of the three, C. J. "Jake" Kline, although retiring as professor of mathematics, will remain with the Universit)- as varsit)- baseball coach. 
DR. WILUS D. NUTTING 
-•Mso retiring were Dr. Willis D. Nutting, an associate professor in the General Pro­gram, and Carl C. Stevason, associate pro­fessor in metallurgical engineering. 
A native of Williamsport, Pa., Kline re­ceived a Bachelor of Science degree in civil engineering at Notre Dame in 1917, win­ning monograms in his three x-arsity years in baseball at the University. He later studied at the University of Utah and Brigham Young University toward a degree in education. 
Kline joined the faculty in 1930 and then became head baseball coach in 1934 to succeed the late George Keogan who moved to basketball. Moving into his 32nd season, Kline boasts a record of 384 wins, 254 losses and four ties. His teams have 
gained berths in postseason play seven of the 15 years the playoffs have been in ex­istence. His 1957 teams clinched fourth in the College World Series. 
He married the former Edith Mae Sun­derland of Eureka, Utah, in 1924. They have five children. 
Dr. Nutting, who has been with the fac­ulty since 1936, is a native of Iowa City, Iowa. He received his undergraduate de­gree from the Universit>- of Iowa in 1921 and later his doctorate in 1933. From 1921 to 1924 he studied at O.xford University in England, earning Bachelor of .'Vrts and Bachelor of Letters degrees. 
He taught Greek and German at the College of St. Teresa in Winona, Minn., before coming to Notre Dame. He con­ducted great books seminars and related courses in the General Program. 
He has been a member of the committee selecting Rhodes Scholarship candidates in Indiana. He also taught an adult evening course at Notre Dame. 
Prof. Nutting is married to the former Eileen Barr)- of Denver, Colo. They have two sons and a daughter. 
He is the author of two books. How Firm a Foundation (Sheed and Ward, 
C. J. "JAKE" KLINE 

1939) and Reclamation of Independence (Berliner and Lanigan, 1947). 
Prof. Sterason, an Edinburg, Ind., na­tive, joined the University facultj- in 1942. He received his bachelor's degree from Hanover College in 1921 and an MS from Purdue University in 1939. 
Before joining the Notre Dame faculty Prof. Ste\-ason was assistant director of vo­cational education for the South Bend area 
Charles De Koninck, internation­ally known philosopher and theolo­gian, died in Rome on February 14 of a heart attack. He lectured several times at the Universitj- between 1942 and 1957 when he was appointed distinguished visiting professor, a post he held until 1963. 
De Koninck was a lay theologian representing Most Rev. Maurice Roy, archbishop of Quebec and primate of Canada, in a special commission on Vatican II. 
Bom in 1906 in West Flanders, Belgium, De Koninck received a doc­tor's degree in philosophy from Lou-vain University, Belgium. He later received a doctorate in sacred the­ology at Laval University, Quebec, where he ser\'ed as dean of the phi­losophy faculty from 1939 through 1956. ' 
The 1963 convention of the Amer­ican Catholic Philosophical .'\5socia­
tion awarded him their .Aquinas-Spellman award. He was the author of 10 books in the fields of philosophy and theolog)-. 
He is sur\'ived by his widow and 11 children, among them a son, Thomas, who taught philosophy at ND from 1960 to 1964. Two daugh­ters are St. "Mar>*'s graduates. 

schools. He has also worked during sum­
mers in machine design with several indus­
trial firms, including Sibley Machine and 
Bendix companies of South Bend, Boeing 
Aircraft of Seattle, Wash., and General 
Machiner}- Co. of Hamilton, Ohio. He worked with the ci\-il engineering department in 1963 on designing and de­veloping equipment for a U.S. .•\ir Force contract. 
He is married to the former Mae Johns­ton of Hamilton, Ohio. They have one daughter. 
CARL C. STEVASON 

22 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
Frank Kaufmann, Oaklawn, 111., '47­'48, '48-'49. Dick Erlenbaugh, Villa Park, 111.. '62-'63, '63-'64. 



sports 
By Charlie Callahan '38 

ROUNDUP and RANDOM NOTES 
The football, fencing, tennis and golf 
squads sparked Notre Dame sports in 
1964-65 to 101 victories, against only 
54 losses, and two ties for a .643 win­
ning percentage. 
The 9-1 mark (.900 winning per­
centage) of the football team led the 
way followed by fencing, 15-2: tennis, 
14-2: and golf, 18-4-1. 
In 1963-64, Notre Dame compiled a mark of 93-58-1 for a winning per­centage of .612. 
The won-lost performances are: 
Winning W L T Pet. 
Football 9 1 0 .900 Fencins 15 2 0 .882 Tennis 14 2 0 .875 Golf 18 4 I .783 Basketball 15 12 0 .556 Baseball 18 17 0 .511 •Track 4 4 0 .500 Swimming 5 6 0 .455 Wrestling 3 6 I .300 
101 54 2 .643 
•dual meets onh- (cross-countr>- included) 
Ray Meyer Homecoming 
(See pictures on next page) 
The basketball game here on Feb. 10 between Notre Dame and DePaul University was a real homecoming for Ray Meyer, veteran DePaul athletic director and head coach and former two-time Notre Dame captain. 
First of all, it was tlie first Notre Dame "homecoming" basketball game, an idea devised by John Dee, Notre Dame's new first-year head coach and himself a former Irish hoop star. And most important, Meyer, in this initial homecoming, was honored as Notre Dame's "basketball man of the year." 
Meyer captained the Irish in 1936-37 and 1937-38. In each of these cam­paigns, the Notre Damers won the mythical national championship and gained 20 victories and only three de­feats. In his sophomore season of 1935­36, when he was also a regular, the Irish won 22. lost two and tied one. 
(The tie came about through a scorer's mistake, discovered after the game, and is another story. It was on Dec. 31, 1935, and the official final score is in the books as Notre Dame 20, North­western 20.) So, in the three years Meyer played forward for Notre Dame, the Irish won 62 games and lost only eight. 
A native of Chicago and a gradu­ate of St. Patrick's Academy in that city, where he was a member of-the team which won the National Catholic High School Championship in 1932. He enrolled in Notre Dame in 1934 and when graduated in June, 1938, received the Byron Kanaley award for proficiency in scholarship and athletics. 
Prior to becoming head coach at DePaul, in 1942, he served two years as assistant basketball coach under the late George Keogan at Notre Dame. He is now in his 23rd season at DePaul, and going into this campaign boasted the excellent coaching record of 353 victories and 183 losses. Eleven of his teams have been invited to either the NCAA or NIT tournaments. Four times he has been named "Coach of the Year" by the Chicago Basketball ^Vriters' Association. 
Meyer and Dee were not alone as former Irish basketball players present. About 25 monogram winners down through the years were present for the game and the informal party that fol­lowed the contest. 
Following is the list of basketball monogram men who returned for No­tre Dame's first Homecoming Basket­ball Game: 
Emmett McCarthy. Chicago, 111., '56-'57, '59-'60. John Niemiera (Mrs. Nieniiera), Chicago, 111., '41-'42, '42-'43. Phil Kirley (Manager). Kewanee, III., '34. Tom Jordan (Mrs. Jordan). Chi­cago, III., '36-'37, '37-'38. 
Mark Ertel (Mrs. Ertel), Tipton^ Ind., '38-'39. Joe Gillespie (Mrs. Gillespie), Louis­ville, Ky., '40-'41. Chet Grant, South Bend, Ind., '16­'17. George Sobek (Mrs. Sobek), Calu­met City, 111., •39-'40, '40-'41. Leo Bamhorst, Indianapolis, Ind., '46-'47, '47-'48, •48-'49. Bob Rensberger, South Bend, Ind., '41-'42, '42-'43. John TuUy, Palisades Park, N.J., '59­'60, '60-'61. Marty O'Connor, Kewanee, 111., '48­'49, '49-'50. William J. Sullivan, Oak Park, 111.. '52-'53, '53-'54. 
Jim O'Halloran (Mrs. O'Halloran), Chicago, III., '46-'47, '47-'48, '48-'49. Frank Quinn, Indianapolis, . Ind., 
'40-'41, '41-'42. Mike Graney, Chesterton, Ind., '59­
'60. Bob Skrzycki, Detroit, Mich., '56-'57. Tom Kulick (Manager), South 
Bend, Ind., '62-'63, '63-'64. 
Dick Rosenthal (Mrs. Rosenthal), Mishawaka, Ind., '51-'52, '52-'53, '53­'54. 
John Dearie, Chicago, III., '58-'59, '59-'60, '60-'61. Jim Gibbons, South Bend, Ind., '50­'51, '51-'52, '52-'53. Bill Newbold, Indianapolis, Ind., '29­'30, '30-'31, '31-'32. 


Spring and the Pigskin 
Little can be said about last spring's football practice beyond the Varsity's 72-0 drubbing of the Old-Timers, wit­nessed by most of you in delayed tele­cast on "NBC Sports in Action," and Coach Parseghian's prognostications for the fall as reported in the St. Joseph Valley Club news. It should be an interesting fall. 
The 1965 SehedMie 
SEPTEMBER 
18 California at Berkeley 25 Purdue at Lafayette 
OCTOBER 
2 NORTHWESTERN 
9 .Army at New York (Night) 23 SOUTHERN CALIFORNI.\ 30 N.AVY 
.VOVEMBER 
6 Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh 13 NORTH CAROLINA 20 MICHIG.\N STATE 27 Miami at Miami (Night) 

Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 23 
Baseball: Late Jack Qirinlan 
of the Cubs Remembered in Rind 




Jilumm in the World of Sport 
Basketball: DePaul's Meyer Honored at First Irish Roundball Reunion 
RAY MEYER '38 (left) accepts plaque naming hun "Basketballer of the Year" for his long service as coach of DePauI at ND's first basketball "homecoming" in February. At right Ray relives his school days as (l.-r.) Notre Damers Paul Nowak Jr. and John Wukovits, sons of his teammates, kneel beside DePaul's Tom Meyer, Ray's son, at the homecoming. Standing (from left) are ND Coach Johnny Dec, Tom Jordan (younger brother of John and Ray's three-year teammate). Airs. Ruby Keogan Huguenard (widow of Ray's coach), and Air. and Airs. Aleyer. 
HOAIECOMING assemblage, including Irish basketball luminaries of the past four decades, gathers at DePaul game ceremonies to honor Ray Aleyer, seated center in his gift Alonogram chair beside Alarty O'Connor, co-captain of the 1930 team. 
THE AIEYERS relax in their Chicago home with the rest of Ray's fine family. 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
JOHN D. QUINLAN '48, the well-known 
"Voice of the Chicago Cubs" sports announcer, will be memorialized in a special scholarship fund established for the dept. of conmiunication arts by radio station WGN of Chicago. The fund, a grant of $10,500 by the station, will allow a $300 a year scholarship to be awarded. Rev. John Walsh, former vice-president for public relations, said the first scholarship would be for the 1965-66 year. Quinlan died Alarch 
19 in an automobile accident near Alesa, Ariz. He was 38 and had been with the Chicago station since 1937. 
Football: Angie and the Astronaut "Dock" on Skis 
ANGELO BERTELLI '41, Notre Dame quarterback who gained All-America fame and won the Hcisnian Trophy, greets America's first orbitting spaceman, Col. John H. Glenn Jr. during a ski trip at Mt. Tom near Springfield, Mass., last winter. The photo was sent to us by Ray Fitzger­
ald *49 from the Springfield paper which has three University alumni on its staff: Jim Regan '47, Jim Donoghue '62 and Alatt Storm '64. 



Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
^ 
.J Si 
^ 
, 
't 
^ 
i* (; V:­^ 
,. 
, ­! 
V 
I ­
r_ 
; ^.1 
I. * 
" 
V 
-
l-^ 
j* 
f 
-
 ALABAMA 
John A. O'Brien, Jr., '51, 1465 Linda  Vista Dr., Regent Forest, Birming­ ham, Ala. 
ALASKA 
John S. Hellenthal, '35, Box 941, Anchorage, Alaska. 
 ARIZONA 
/•/locnit—Arthur L. Erra, '30, 5038 
 N. 35th St., Phoeni.'C, Ariz. 
Tucson—I. "Buddy" Goldman, '36, 3932 E. Poe, Tucson, Ariz. 
ARKANSAS 
Fori Smhh—Jama A. Ciller. '48, 3715 Free Ferry Rd., Fort Smith, Ark. 
Unit Rock—Jzma E. Madigan, '43, 4617 Crestwood, Little Rock, Ark. 
CALIFORNIA 
BaJterj^«W—Richard L. Bamett, '56,  630 Golden State Hivy., Bakersiield, Calif. 
Ctnlro/—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Secre­tary), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Calif. 
 Loj Angeles—Robert L. Gervais, '55,  3219 Rosewood Ave., Los Angeles  66, Calif. Northern—EdM'anl E. Madigan, *54, 5528 Glenbrook Dr., Oakland, Calif. 
Orange County—Thomas J. Getzing­ er, '53, 2212 E. Wilshire Ave., Fullerton, Calif. 
Sacramento—Lt. Richard S. Sapp, '60, 2518 Ganzan Way, Rancho Cor­do\'a, Calif. 
San Dteco—Marxin W. Rickling, '52,  9235 Fermi .\\c., San Diego 23,  Calif. 
San Fernando Valley—Robert Hunter, '52, 8757 JumiUa Ave., Northridgc,  Calif. 
San Gabriel Valley — William T.  Huston, '51, 612 S. Flower St., Suite 700, Los Angeles 17, Calif. 
Santa Clara Valley—E. Stuart H!l­bcrt, '63, 1901 Halfoid, No. 105, Santa CLtra, Calif. 
 COLORADO 
Colorado Springs — Otto K. Hilbert,  '54, 640 Dove Place, Colorado Springs, Colo. 
Denver—^Jamcs Robert Hilger, Jr., '56, 3166 S. Vine St., Engicwood, Colo., BOllO. 
CONNECTICUT 
Connecticut Valley — Robert L. Mc-Goldrick, '56, Old County Highway, East Granby, Conn. 
Fairfield County—^William Mulrenan,  '37, 100 Tidemill Terr., Fairfield, Conn. Naugatuek — Domenic A. Narducci, Jr., '52, 44 Beacon Manor Rd., Naugatuek, Conn. 
New Haven—Br. Robert T. Warner, '53, 1960 Whitney Ave., Hamden 17, Conn. 
 DELAWARE 
 Arthur F. DiSabatino, '59, 801 Bank of Delaware Bide., Wilmington,  Del. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBL\ 
Waller J. Brcnnan, '41, 700 Duke St., .Alexandria, Va. 
 FLORIDA 
 Ccnlraf—Robert J. Pleus, '57, 1037  Lancaster Dr., Orlando, Fla. 
Fort Lauderdale—George A. Patter­son, '58, 1020 N.E. 7th Ave., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 33304 
Greater Miami—Geotge F. Hero, '52, 40 -V.E. 75th St., Miami, Fla. 
North Florida—Albert H. Kessing, '40, 7245 Coligny Rd., Jacksonville, Fla. 
Palm Beach County—Daniel Downey, Jr., '44, Suite 615. Han.ey BIdg., West Palm Beach, Fla. 
Pensaeola—^John L. McCormack, '49, 
P.O. Box 8, Pensaeola, Fla. 
St. Petersburg-Tampa — Mark E. Mooney, '26, 4525 Gaines Rd., Tampa, Fla. 
GEORGIA 
Atlanta — Richard G. Muiphy, '44, 677 Ponce de Leon Ave., N.E., Atlanta, Ga. 
HAWAH 
Harvey Lung, '53, 1605 Ulueo St., Kailua, Oahu, Ha%vaii. 
IDAHO 
Francis H. Hicks, '49, 1180 Phelps Circle, Mountain Home, Idaho. Idaho Falls — James M. Brady, '29, 
P.O. Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS 
.Aurora — John G. Br>-an, '54, 111 Downer Place, Aurora, III. 
Central lUinois — Thomas Hamilton, Jr., '53, 105 Andovcr Dr., Spring. field. III. 
Chicago — Patrick J. Shannon. '48. 9430 S. Oakley Ave., Chicago 20, 111. Decatur—Joseph McNamara, '61, 31 1st South Shore Ave., Decatur, III. Eastern Illinois—Later D . Fahey, '42, 
11 Prairie, Danrfllc, III. Fox Valley — George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, 111. Joliet — Robert U. Walsh, '43, 2609 Dougall Rd., Joliet, III. McHenry County — Thomas J. Par­sley, '54, 377 West Crj^tal Lake .Ave., Crystal Lake, HI. /'coria—George J. Best, M.D., '38, 312 Miller Ave., Peoria Hts., III. Roct/orif—Albert Canoll, '22, 206 W. State St., Rockford, 111. Rock Riser KjHey—Paul L. Bcrrct­tini, '56, 609 Crawford Ave., DLxon, 111. Southern Cook County — Robert N. Caffarelli, '55, 2633-E Hawthorne Lane, Flossmoor, III. 
INDIANA 
Calumet District — Robert J. Welsh, Jr.. '56, 7000 Chicago Ave., Gary, Ind. 
Eastern Indiana—James F. Halligan, '32, 303 Wysor Bldg., Muncie, Ind. 
£/A*arf—James D. Ash. '33, 1151 Strong Ave, Elkhart, Ind. 
Evansv!lle—I>. Patrick O'Daniel, "59, 2409 E. Powell, Eransville, Ind. 
Fort Wayne — Jerome F. Hipskind, '59, 2505 Stanford Dr., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Grant County — Eugene A. Campa­nale, '50, 3001 Lincoln Blvd., Manon, Ind. 
Indianapolis—Richard F. McNamara, '54, 1 Bennett Rd., Carmcl, Ind. 46032. 
Michigan City—Leon A. Dargis, '59_. Merchants National Bank, 515 Franklin St., Michigan City, Ind. 
St. Joseph Valley—EdK%id J. Gray, '52, 645 Firat Bank Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
Terre Haute — Michael H. Kearns, '60, 1642 S. 5lh St., Terre Haute, Ind. 

IOWA 
Burlington — William Bauer, *57, 119 ilarietta St., Burlington, Iowa. 
Cedar Rapids—James R. Ullrich, '57, 3&t7 Mt. Vernon Rd., Cedar Rapids, Iowa. 
Des Moines — Joseph B.. Joyce, *54, 4708 S.W. 16th St., Des Moines 15, Iowa. 
Dubuque—Rev. William Kunsch, *37, Our Lady ot Seven Dolors Rectory, Festina, Iowa. 
Sioux-Land — Raymond B. Duggan, '43, 3244 Jackson, Sioux City 4, Iowa. 
Tri-Cities {Davenport^ Rack Island, Moline, E. Moline) — Peter H. Lousberg, '56. 1808 Thiitl Ave., Rock Island, III. 
KANSAS 
Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, '49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. Minn—Albert J. XfcLean, '31, 1410 Highland Ave., Salina, Kan. ll'.VAi/o—Ted J. McDonald. '59, 11 Hillcrcst .Ave., Wichita, Kan. 
KENTUCKY 
Robert H. WiUenbrink,. ;49, 2151 Strathmoor Blvd., Louisville, Ky. 
LOUISIANA 
New Orleans—PlcTTC V. Miller. '59, 5527 Jacqueline Ct., New Orleans, Louisiana. 
Northern Louisiana—Dr. Edward R. Morgan, '44, 803 Jordan St., Shreveport, La. 
MAINE 
J. Paul Scully, Jr., '41. 58 Clcmons St., South Portland, ^faine. 
MARYLAND 
Baltimore — Thomas R. Shine, '59, 3117 Rheims Rd., Baltimoie 7, Md. 
iL\SSACHUSETTS 
Berkshire County — Alfred J. Bzdula, '49, 87 Kittredge Rd., Pittsfield, .Mass. 
Bojion — Robert L. Xfarr, '58, 92 Scotland St., Hingham, Mass. Pioneer I'n/fey — William A. Hurley, '28, 33 Elm St., Springfield, Mass. 01103 
MICHIGAN 
Battle Cr«i—Ra>Tnond R. Allen, '40, 1009 Security National Bank Bldg., Battle Creek, Mich. Berrien County ~~ Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, NUes, Mich. Blue Water District — William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. 
Dearborn—William A. Dosinann. '53, 610 Betty Lane, Inksler, Mich. 48141 
Detroit-John C. Murray, '57, 1690 Bournemouth, Giosse Pointc 36, .Mich, 
f/m/—Alfred Mansour, '51, G-4295 Corunna Rd., Flint, Mich. Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Ziim, '40, Wright &. Zinn, Michaels Bldg., Ironwood, Mich. 
Grand Rabids and Western Michigan 
— Davia J. Immonen, '58, 347 Briar>\-ood, S.E., Grand Rapids, .Mich. 
Hiawathaland — Donald T. Trottier, '44, 604 Ludington St., Escanaba, Kalamazoo—Frank G. Kcisjcs, '30, 1202 South . Westnedge Ave., Kalamazoo, Mich. 
Lansing — Bernard J. Ikfayotte, '50, 1130 Hitching Post, E. Lansing, Mich. 
J/aiiro>-;-Hngh J. Laughna, '40, 1587 Riverview, Monroe, Mien. 
Muskegon — Stanley R. Tyler, Jr., '58, 2211 Reneer St., Muskegon, Mich. 
Saginaw Valley—Lawrence A. Smith, Top'31,of 1305Michigan — Saginaw,
 Avalon, Mich. 
 Edward L. Molt^ ney, '17, 416 East State St., Che­boygan, \fich. 
MINNESOTA 
Twin Cities — John F. Clifford. '38, 984 Ashland Ave., St. Paul, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI 
William H. Miller, '30, 755 Gillespie PI., Jackson, Miss. 
MISSOURI 
Kansas City — Harold S. Solomon, '47, 1221 W. 71st Terrace, Kansai City, Mo. 
St. Louis — C. T. "Connie" Lane, '57, 11534 Clayton Rd., St. Lom"i, 
Mo. 
MONTANA 
Bernard Grainey, '43, 906 — U Ave., Helena, Montana. 
NEBRASKA 
Omaha and Council Bluffs—Thomas 
A. Walsh, Jr., '42, 9301 Dodge St., Omaha, Neb. 
NEW JERSEY 
Central — William A. Richardson, '55. 7 Orchard Rd., Fiseataway, N.J. 
New Jersey Shore—Raymond M. Ticr­ney, Jr., '54, 45 North Vale Ave, Little Sliver, N.J. 
New Jersey—Harry Durkin, '53, 351 Broad St., Newark 2. N.J. South Jersey — James B. Carson, '56, 624 Clinton Ave., Haddonfield, N.J. 
NEW MEXICO 
William B. Benedick, '54. 4601 Haines Ave., Albuquerque, N.Sl. 
NEW YORK Albany — Frank E. O'Brien. '58, 99 Brookline Ave., Albany, N.Y. Buffalo—Eugene P. O'Connor, '56, 133 Tuscarora Rd., Buffalo, N.Y. 14220 Centra/—John G. Cuddy, Jr., '55, 16t Winding Way, Camillus, N.Y. 13031 Golden Circle—Jama F. McVay, '42, 49 Parkway Lane, Bradford, A . Mid-Hudson ViiUty—Brian C. O'Ndll. '56, Tltnsville Road, Rt. No. 2, Foughkeepne, N.Y. Mohawk roHev—Michael J. McGuirl, '49, 171 Roosevelt Dr., Utica, N.Y. New York City—Gordon L. Forester, '47, 24 Ward Ave., Westbury, N.Y. Rochesler—Vmccat E. Dollard, '39, 

Mich. 160 Kings Gate, North, Rochester 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-Augmt, 1965 25 

Jackson — Cyiil J. Hartman, '23, 612 17, N.Y. Webb St., Jackson, Mich. 
Schenectady — Robert B. PIorkoMrskt. Memphis — R07 E. GOUa, '56, Peat Green Boy—Robert W. Scbaefer, '53, 
OKLAHOMA 

Marmck MitcheU & Co., 2500 2522 Martha St., Green Bay, Wise. Oklahoma City — Walter A. Nashert, Sterick Bldg., Afemphis, Tenn. 
'54, 9 OJt Hm Dr., Scotia 2, N.Y. 
Syracuse—Sec "Central New York." La Crosse — Duane D. Hammes, '5C, 
Jr., '54, 2601 Diakestone, Okk>­
Southern Tier —'Frank F. O'Brien, homa City, Okla. XashvilU—^Jaiiics C. Grcenwell. Jr., 3111 S. Losey, La Crosse, Wise '54. Amico Steel Corp., 633 Thonip­
'34, 201 FederatiDn BIdg., Elmiia, Tulsa — William N. Shcehan, '49, ifcrria—Augustus H. Stange. '27, 102 
M>n Lane. Nashville, Tenn. 
N.Y. 1931 S. Evanston, Tulsa, Okla. S. Prospect St., MerriU, Wise 
Triple Cities—^Thomas A, Muscatcllo. TEXAS Afitemiier—Thomas L. Mulcahy, '57, '49. 8 Maril\-n Ave., Binclialiilon. 7349 N. Lombardy Rd., Milwau­
OREGON 

Dallas — Warren N. Higgins, '52. kee 17, Wise 
X.Y. 
Phil R. Meaney, '50, 223 Board of 6905 South Ridge Dr., Dallas 14, Trade Bldg., Portland, Ore. Texas. Northwest Wisconsin—Ben M. Siri­anni, Jr., '60, 316 West Grant, 
NORTH CAROLINA El P<uo—Edward T. Jennings, '53, 312 Eau Claire, Wise. Olivia Circle, El Paso, Texas. 
Donald J. Kelsey, '48, 1115 Wcsl-PENNSYLVANIA South CmtroZ—Bernard S. Nflxtacki, 
lidge Rd., Greensboro, N.C. Honrton—Robert F. Dillon, '48. 9418 
Central Pennsylvania—Dr. Georee W. '50, 6303 Sylvan Ln., Madison, 
Winsome Lane, Houston 42, "Texas. Wise. 53716. 
Katter, .'41. U.S. Bank Bldg., Johnstown, Pa. Midland-Odessa -~ John L. O'Hezn. Erie — Richard T. McCormick, '55, '37, 1001 W. 25, Odessa, Texas. 
NORTH DAKOTA 

4425 Cherry St., Erie, Pa. Grande WYOMING 
Rio KnUey—Robert Am , '49, 
William Daner, '53, 1106 S. Highland Harriitcrf—Donald R. Meek, '50, 520 1205 W. Elizabeth St., Brownsville, 
.Acres, Bismarck, N.D. Patrick H. Meenan, '49, Midwest 
Park Ave., New Cumberland, Pa. Texas. 
Bldg., P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. 

Lehigh Valley—^James O. Funari, '50, San .4ntonio — S. Chilton Maverick, 119 South West St., Allentown, Pa. 
'61, 110 .Auditorium Circle. San Mononsahela Valley—Louis W. Apone, .-\ntonio, Texas. 
OHIO 

'41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, FOREIGN CLUBS Akron — Paul A. Bertsch. '60, 159 
Pa. UTAH Beniat, /nJia—Rev. John W. Kane, 
Oakdale Ave., .Akron 2, Ohio. 
Philadelphia — William A. Whiteside. C.S.C., '24, Moreau House, 28 Zin­Canton—Edwin H. Obcnniller. Jr.. Jr.. '51. 7808 CobJcn Rd., Lav,.-Don J. Roncy, '58, 320 East Fourth, tlahahnr Lauc, Da(X3, East Pakistan. 
Salt Lake City 8, Utah. 
'38. 4245 20th St., X.W.. Canton. 
rock, Philadelphia 18. Pa. Canada — Paul H. LaFramboise, '34, Ohio +4708 Pittshureh — Paul A. Hudak. '51, VIRGINIA 400 Charest Blvd., Quebec, Canada. Cinrfnnnd'—Paul F. Kelley. '54, 7083 
705 Fain-iew Ave., Pittsbuijh 38, Chile — Rev. Francis A. Provcnzano, Charles .\. LaFiatta. '47, 1301 -Alsatia 
Bestview Terr., Cincinnati 30, Ohio. Pa. C.S.C.. '42, St. George's College, 
Dr., Richmond, Va. 
CteWonJ—Richard H. Xfiller. '54, Aven, Pedro de Valdivia 1423, San­
Scranton—Earl E. Holmes. Jr.. '54, 2245 Stillman, Cleveland Heiglits 
rii/«ri«er—Phillip L. Russo, '49, 153 tiago, Chile. 
105 Belmont Ave.. Clarks Green, Pa. 
Cedar Ln., Lynnharen, Va. 
18, Ohio. Eciuufoi^Iobn MoeUer, '47, P.O. Box 
WUkeS'Barre — Raymond J. Sobota, Columbus — Roger O. Zocllner, '53, 
213, Quito, Ecuador. 

'49, 760 Jfinen Bank, Wilkes-BarTe, 
WASHINGTON 
185 Wintbrop Rd., Columbus 14, Germany — Charles A. Hickman, '58, 
Pa. 
Ohio. Spokane—Raphael B. Pcnland, '56. Schellingstiasse No. 81, Munich, 
Williamsport — Joseph F. Oiso, Jr., 
Ba>(on—Peter J. Donahue. '52, 2076 E. 10920 18th .Ave., Spokane, Germany. 
'55, 822 Franklin St., Williamsport, Wash. 99206 
Ridjtebur)' Rd., Dayton, Ohio 45440. .Manila—Lawrence J. Gotuaco, '54. Hamillom—Jerome A. Ryan, '41, 353 Pa. If«(OTi — Alex S. Toth, "49, 4527 P.O. Box 1152. Manila. Philippines. Soutb D St., Hamilton, Ohio. RHODE ISLAND Second Ave., N.E., Seattle 5, 
Menco ^ity—Telmo De Landero, '37, 

.Wonj^rf—Clarence J. Kozak. '30. Wash. 
AND SOUTHEASTERN Eugenio Sue No. 220, Mexico City, 52 Church St., Belleville, Ohio Mexico. 
Xorthu-cstern—Leo J. Hawk, '55, 625 MASSACHUSETTS ^VEST VIRGINIA 
Victory, Lima, Ohio Edward P. Denning, '50, 114 Green­Panama—Lorenzo Romagoza, '45, Box wich Ave., E. Providence, R.I. CiTil M. Reich, '39, 903 S. Drew St., 3393, Panama, Rep. of Panama. 
Ohio Colby—Robert R. Sincavich, '50, St. Albans, W.Va. 
IS4 Grant Ave., Wheeling, W. Va. SOUTH CAROLINA Peru—^Enrique LiiUi, '45, Cuzco 440, StmJllslcy — Richard C. Hohlcr, '47, 
Joseph D . Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore Central — John D. Julian, '40, P.O. Lima, Peru. Dr., Westwood, Charleston, S.C. . Box 2063, ClarksbutB, W.Va. 
2603 Easttrood Dr., Sandusky, Ohio. Puerto Rico — Piiul McXfanus, '34 TIMn — Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 
(Vice-Pres.), Calle IlfcKinley 666, 

TENNESSEE WISCONSIN Miramar, Puerto Rico. 
Sycamore St., Tiffin, Ohio. Toledo—Paul M. Krause. '54, 1724 Chattanooga — Edward F. Da\is, '43, Fox Ri-er Valley—Robert I. Simkins. Koine — Vincent G. McAloon, '34 
W. Bancroft, Toledo, Ohio 506 Bajiington, Signal &fountaio, '56, 400 S. Douglas, Applclon, Wis. (Secretary), Palazzo Biancaccio, 
Tcnn. 54912 Laxgo Biancaccio, 82, Rome, Italy. 
Youngstou-n—Michael P. Lydcn. Jr.. '50. 4011 Cascade Dr., Yo'ungstoun. Ohio. 
Universal Notre Dame Night %t'as held this year, DENNIS SULLIVAN '60; ED COSGROVE '56. as last year, at the Sheraton Plaza on May 4, 1965. and JOHN LA DUCA '36. Our principal speaker was Jolin J. McCarthy, State On Saturday, April 24, at the West Side Rowing Commissioner of x\dministration and Finance, an Club, the Notre Dame Rowing Club raced the exceptional speaker and quite controversial on how 
West Side rowing crew in the Black Rock Canal. 

to run a state government most economically. In 
The Notre Dame Retreat was held April 2-4 at 




C\ubs 

addition to Mr. McCarthy, His Excellcncx* Gov. 
St. Columban's Retreat House, Darb>'. N.Y. Thanks 
John Volpc agreed to be on hand during the eve­
to Chairman MAURICE QUI.N'N for his efforts. 
ning. Traditionally the recipient of the Notre 
At the March Board of Directors meeting, it %\'as 
Dame Man of the Year award is announced the 
Atlanta decided that the Club would, on a small scale. 
night of the dinner. Tliis year, however, the com­DR. THOM.AS BERGIX, dean of continuing mittee selected a non-Notrc Dame man whose 
acti\-atc a nocturnal adoration society, which would education at ND. \ras a special guest at Georgia's stature warranted disclosing his identity before the function strictly in the homes of the participants. Universal Noire Dame Night on May 7. award night. This year the Man of the Year is Each alumnus was requested to spend half an hour William Sulli\'an of the Boston Patriots, the Amer­at his home on the same day of ever>' month, ican Football League and the Metropolitan Coal e.g. the seventh of each month, and meditate that 
Baltimore 
and Oil Co. Mr. Sulli\-an spent several liappy half hour on the Sacred Heart of Jesus, in quiet DR. FREDERICK ROSSI.VI, dean of the Notre years at ND when Frank Leahy was in charge of prayer of reparation. The half hour would be Dame College of Science and winner of the 1965 
atlilctics. A reception in the State Suite and Gold 
selected at any time of the day the participant Laeiare Medal, u-as guest speaker on ''\ Centurj' of Rooms at the Sheraton Plaza and dinner in the  and be spent either individually 
chooses may or Science** for Universal Notre Dame Night in Mar\-­
Oval Room were followed by a few speeches and 
u-ith your family if you wish. There will be no land on April 24. 
then dancing to the music of Jack Hennessey and 
superx'ision or regimentation in this activity. All his orchestra. 
were asked, if interested, to contact GENE O'CON­
Boston 
NOR. F.\THER BARATTO recommended that the At our .Annual Meeting on .April 12 the follow­
—NEIL FOWLER '47, Retiring Pres. 

rosar}' be utilized in this devotion. 
ing were elected as new officers: President, BOB MARK '58; Vice-President, PHIL PHILBIN '59; —PAUL D. BALLING, Retiring Pres. 

Buffalo 
Secretary*. J.ACK L.AMERE '55; Treasurer, TOM WELCH -57. PAUL SULLIVA.V and DICK L.A-
This year's Universal Notre Dame Night was held 
.A general meeting ^v"as held at the Lenox Hotel 
MERE, both '49, arc tlie new directors. on Easter Monday, April 19. at the Buffalo Ath­on May 19. On the agenda were the following 
letic Club in the Ellicott Room. Cocktails were 
The Broadcast Executives Club of Boston held items: Notre Dame Night at the Races, held its Annual Spoits Luncheon May 20 in the Com­June 3, 1965, with TOM BE.\NET as the chair­
followed by dinner with FR, EDMU.VD P. JOYCE CSC, executive vice-president of Notre Dame, as 
monwealth Room of the new Boston Sheraton man; a dinner to honor .ARA PARSEGHIAN, our 
Hotel. The featured speaker was AR.A PAR-our main speaker and DON JACOBI as our master esteemed football coach, and three of his outstand­
of ceremonies. Our new officers were installed as 
SEGHIAX, our fearless coach. ing players—^John Huarte, Jack Snow and Jim The K of C Lantern Award Dinner u^is a grand Carroll—to be in Buffalo for the 5th .Annual .All­
a result of our elections on March 27, as follows: affair. We Iiad a reception for FATHER HES-New officers: President, EUGENE P. O'CONNOR America Bowl Game; a projected Christmas Dance, BURGH at the Statler and then had a tabic for '56; Vice-President, FRANCIS J. KOWALSKI '48; etc 
the dinner. After the dinner Father Ted came Corresponding Secrctarv-, DENNIS SULLIV.AN '60; 
Dues must be paid to Ed Cosgrovc, 53 Reed 
back up to the room for another lialf-hour chat Financial Secretary, EDW.ARD C. COSGROVE '58; Street, Lackawanna, N.Y., before July 31, 1965, to 
u-ith all of us. Incidentally no expense was in­and Treasurer, RICHARD C. W.AGNER '53. remain on the mailing list. curred by the Club for this affair. 
New directors: FRANCIS J. KOW.ALSKI '48: Our congratulations to P.AUL BALLING and his 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
committrc on a vcr>' fine Universal Notre Dame 
Night. Eighty-four penons attended and FATHER 
JOYCE gave a rundown on some ver>* pertinent 
subjects concerning the University. 
The Alum-wives graciously added to our scholar­
ship fund a clicck in the amount of $330.00. Our 
grateful thanks. 
—EUGENE P. O'CONNOR -56, Pres. 



Calumet Region 
Officers were elected at Universal Notre Dame Night on April 19, 1965: President, ROBERT J. WELSH JR. '56. of Gar>-; Vice-President. JAMES KINNANE "57, of Whiting; Secretan-, TIMOTHY 
P. CALVIN JR. '59, of .Munstcr; Treasurer, THOMAS S. GOZDECKI '58, of Munstcr; and Special Events Cfiairman: JAMES R. BIELEFELD '59. of Crown Point. Directors arc JOHN M. O'DROBINIAK. Whiting; ANTHONY S. KU­HARICH, Hammond; and DEN.NTS J. BURKE, Gar\". 
PATRICK MALONEY '16 of Crown Point was 
named ND Man of the Year, REV. CHARLES 
SHEEDY CSC was guest speaker, and BOB WELSH 
was chainnnn. A special award went to Challenge 
Chairman BILL TR.\VIS. 
Our Sports Stag was held on Wednesday, May 12, 
at St. Thomas More Hall, Munster, Ind. 
Spring practice concluded at Notre Dame the 
Saturday preceding our Sports Stag with the Old-
Tiniers Game, and Defensive Coach JOHN RAY 
vras present to tell us about the developments this 
spring. Coach Ray u-as head coach at John Carroll 
Univeriity prior to returning to Notre Dame last 
fall. During the last three years, teams coached 
by John Ray have lost only one game. The per­
formance of last year's defensive unit is an indication 
as to how* this record was achieved. Coach Ray 
brought with him the 1964 captain of the Fighting 
Irish. JI.M CARROLL, and the 1965 captain, PHIL 
SHERID.VN. 
The anchor man on our program was Notre Dame's contribution to the Chicago Bears—offensive lineman. Robert Wetoska—to give us an insight into the Bears' prospects for 1965. The net proceeds from the Sports Stag will be applied to our Scholar­!-lnp Fund. 
—TIMOTHY P. GALVIN, JR., Sec>-. 

Canton 
On March 21 the ND Alumni Club of Canton. O.. held its annual Rockne Memorial Mass and Breakfast. The event took place at the chapel and cafeteria of Timken-Merc>* Hospital, and approxi­mately 65 persons were in attendance. The principal speaker was Rev. B. Whitman Dennison, pastor of St. Paul's Episcopal Church of Canton, and he gave a ver\- enlightening talk on the Ecumenical Move­ment and its effects in the world and in Canton today. .As has been the practice of the Club for this affair, the wives and families of all Canton area alumni and friends of ND were also invited and many of these attended. Because of the excellent speaker and the fine tuniout, the affair was a great succejr. 
—EUGENE C. WACKERLY, JR.. Sec>-. 
Picked as "Man of the Year" on Universal Notre Dame Night was Paul B. Beldcn Sr. He is the scion of the brick-making family which pro\'ided the bricks for many of the newer buildings at ND. He is not an alumnus but for most of his 83 years he's been acting as we'd like every ND man to. 
His father founded the brick company and he added eight pbnts to the operation. He's been a major figure in the clay products induslr>' for over half a century. 
He's chairman of the board of the brick company, Ohio Ferro-.-Mlov-s Corp., First National Bank, Citizens Savings Assn., helped found the Chamber of Commerce here and Brooksidc Countr>' Club. Member of state historical society and founded and headed Stark Count)* unit. He helped organize the Community Fund and welfare federation here and practically ran two Catholic city hospitals for years. 
Three sons—Paul Jr., William and Ricliard— were graduated from ND and arc active in the brick company and civic endeavors. We gave the scroll to the fathers but recognize the sons. 
We had oar dinner .April, 22 and Assoc. Dean L.-\WRENCE BALDI.NGER of the College of Science was o'^r speaker. 
—JAMES F. WEBER '57, Treas. 

Cedar Rapkb 
ND football played a big role in the Januar>' activities of the Cedar Rapids Xolrc Dame Club. On Jan. 19 we attended as a group the K of C 


Spotlight Clubs... 

With approximately 100 Notre Dame Clubs reporting in this issue, principally on their obser\'ances of the Universal Notre Dame Night salute to the Science Cen­tennial, we have singled out a few local chapters for special mention. The following have reported events or activities with unusual interest, topical significance, spec­tacular success or outstanding service: 
Buffalo: Service Through Spirituality 

Noting (along with other ND Clubs) a disturbing drop-off in attendance at 
the annual three-day closed retreat, Buffalo Chaplain Father Baratto suggested a 
novel and more sustained form of spiritual exercise — a perpetual adoration society 
— and Club members under President Gene O'Connor have enthusiastically im­plemented the idea. Based on the parish nocturnal adoration idea, the plan calls for each member to pick an hour and day of the month for quiet prayer and meditation in the pri\'acy of his home. The society was quickly subscribed. 
Canton: Ecumenism in Action 

For the annual Rockne Memorial Mass and Conununion Breakfast the Canton 
Club might have asked a local coach or sports celebrity to be the speaker. Instead 
they called on the vicar of a local Episcopal church to give a talk on the ecimienical 
movement. In a way-out way the idea was very appropriate: for much of his time 
at Notre Dame Rock was a member of another faith, a devout Lutheran. 
Chicago: Accent on Comedy 

To assure a 1,000-pIus attendance at two major extents of the past year, the Chicago Club, under Pres. Paul Fullmer, procured the ser\-ices of two of .America's greatest comedians — considerably under "Guild scale." By honoring Dolores Hope as their Challenge II Night "Woman of the Year" they got a nationally publicized monologue from her globe-trotting husband Bob, a recent ND "Patriot of the Year." .And by giving the great Jimmy Durante a much-deser\-ed "Decency in Entertain­ment" award they automatically engaged Eddie Jackson and the Durante troupe. The Schnoz scintillated, even though he had to jet back immediately to an ailing wife on the Coast. 
Cleveland, Ft. Lauderdale: Festivals 

Spring and summer fe5ti\-als, economical and compatible with the vacation plans of most ND families, are available in April at the Bahamian "ND International Convention" and in July at Ohio's Cedar Point "Midwest ND Family Fun Festival." Now the property of the Florida and Ohio ND Clubs respectively, they arc actually the promotional brainchildren of the Cleveland and Fort Lauderdale Clubs, whose officers should be contacted for information. The third annual "International," cele­brated this year at Nassau and previously on Grand Bahama, is an offshoot of the old Florida State Convention. The second annual "Fun Festi\'al," commemorating the perfection of the Dorais-Rockne forward prass at Cedar Point on the shores of Lake Erie, was scheduled for July 9 weekend and deprived of adequate advance notice in these pages. 
Dearborn: Samaritans for Salazar 

Dearborn and Detroit area alumni got an opportunity for extraordinary corporal works of mercy when Don MuUaney '52 organized a fund for Cuban classmate .Al­berto Salazar. Granted a Canadian employment visa, Salazar and his family were not allowed to take any worldly possessions into e.\ile, so the Dearborn Club dis­tributed MuUaney's appeal for gifts or loans to tide the Salazars over until they are established. (See Class of '52.) 
Lehigh Valley: Occasion of Prayer 

In recent years the Notre Dame Club of the Lehigh Valley has made it a prac­tice to keynote their Universal ND Night obsen-ances with a period of prayer before the Blessed Sacrament. This year the traditional holy hour at S t Catherine of Siena Cathedral again preceded an even more traditional UN D Night banquet. It's a good custom — prefacing the annual salute to .Alma Mater with prayers for her con­tinued success. 
Terre Haute: A Sense of History 

Spotlighted last year for timely aid to an injured ND freshman and his family, the ND Club of Tcrrc Haute, Ind., again pulled a coup on Universal ND Night — a souvenir booklet commemorating the 10th anniversary of its charter and containing all the memorable data of that 10-year history, compiled by Jim Boyer and Fred Christman Jr. and pretty impressive in its totality. Runners-up are the St. Joseph Valley Club, with a Rockne Memorial Communion program graphically depicting Rock (with a rare old photo) as a model for youth, and a handful of Clubs who turned out painstaking membership directories. 
Toledo: Distaff Relations 

Does lack of family involvement contribute to the anemia of many Club pro­grams? The Toledo Club thought so and decided to try something different from the occasional mixed party or picnic — a couples' bowling league — next season. Runners-up in distaff ecumenism were several Clubs which no longer tmderestimate the power of a women's auxiliary — especially for packing a house or promoting a scholarship fund. Chicago even took a leaf from coeducation in opening up its annual board-of-directors dinner to Ladies' .Auxiliary officers for the first time. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 27 
sports banquet at which Coach ARA PARSEGHIAN* 
u-as the main speaker, and on Jan. 26 %%'e gathered 
to vie**- the 1961 Football Highlights fihn in the 
K of C quarters. 
Tlic ND Club of Cedar Rapids staged a Lcnien Retreat at the Trappist Monastery- at Dubuque, lou-a, on the weekend of March 19-21. Among the ND men present were: J. J. LOCHER, HUB SCHIMBERG, JIM ULLRICH, JOHN HEY­VAERT, BILL REDMOND, JOE GREEN, JIM STYERS, and the writer. 
I am at tlie end of a very short terra as president of the Notre Dame Club of Cedar Rapids. It has been a pleasure to serve in this oflicc and my successor will be JIM ULLRICH '57. 
EfTective May I, I will be transferred into the Quaker Oats Chicago offices. —CLARENCE F. HUTCHES II, '59, Retiring Pres. 
Central N.J. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Chib of Central New Jersey held its annual cocktail partv on Feb. 28 at the home of JACK CHRISTL\N '57, New Brunswick, N.J. Those attending included Club President BILL RICHARDSON '55, JACK MUL­LEN '53, TOM KENNEALLY '30, ^VALTER FL.\HERTY '55, ART ^L•\RTZ '61, SHAUX Mc-DERMOTT. HOWARD GILLESPIE '34, FR.\NK FATORA, NORRIS H.-\RDING '57 and DICK CONNELLY '55. 
Current events for the Club include the Universal Notre Dame night dinner-dance in .April and the annual golf outing in June at Colonia Country' Club. 
Club President Richardson said plans are being made for a football excursion to the Notre Dame-Army game this October. Last year's trip to the Na\y game in Philadelphia was an outstanding success with more tlian 500 making the club trip. Bill also announced a special sale for tlic Hall of Fame benefit game between tlic Ne*%' York Jets and the Buffalo Bilk at Rutgers Stadium Aug. 21, featuring DARYLE L.AMONia-\, NORM NICOLA, ED RUTKOWSKI. PAUL COSTA, and JOHN HUARTE. 
—DICK CON.N'ELLY '55, Sec>-. 

Central N.Y. 
On ifarch 2 the Central New York Aluumi Club sponsored a luncheon honoring Coach .A.R.\ PAR­SEGHIAN at LeMoync Manor. Approximately 300 alumni and friends were on liand to greet the coach and to hear his inspiring talk. We in the SvTacuse area, as all allumni, are extremely proud in knowing that we have a coach of such high caliber. Coach Parseghian "stole the hearts" of local personages including tlie local sportsu-riters and sportscasters, as indicated by the good coverage given him by both media. Whether or liot Coach Ben Swsrtzwaldcr or Athletic Director Jim Decker of S>Tacuse University, also in attendance, had the same feeling still remains a question. Tliis occasion was run cfHciently by Chairman BILL HASSETT. Mrs. JAMES MANNING, president of the Notre Dame Wives Club, presented a check to Coach Parseghian on behalf of the Cliallenge II program. 
We also had the honor of being host to FATHER JOYCE on April 21. The occasion was Universal Notre Dame Night in Central Nc%s" York. A dinner-dance was held to honor Failier Joyce, •who told of the many changes at Notre Dame. I am quite sure that I wasn't the only "homesick" alumnus in our group. Mrs. Hesburgh, mother of our Presi­dent, was in attendance to greet Father Joyce. Club officers were elected for the coming year. J.ACK CUDDY '55 will be the new president; FRANK ANNESE '61 takes over as vice-president; TOM MONSOUR '61 is treasurer, and KEVIN RYAN '61 will be secretary. BOB McAULIFFE w ^ awarded the *'Man of the Year" award for continued lo>*alty and support of both the local Club and the Founda­tion. 
—FRANK CAHILL, Retiring Pres. 

Chicogo 
Klany thanks to all those who helped make Universal Notre Dame Night (May 3) one of the biggest and best functions in the history' of the Alumni Association. A special "tliank you** to Chairman ED MORAN, who proved again that the busy man makes the best leader. He went all out to make UND Night lops. From the outdoor cocktail party to JIMMY DURANTE's final number, the part>* was a ^'winner." 
Jimmy made a special trip to Chicago to receive the Club's "Decencj' In Entertainment" au-ard, which rapidly is becoming one of the most coveted au'ards in show business. Wc deeply appreciate Jimmy's generosity not only in flying in from a 
busy w*cek in California, but bringing along his 
entire troupe. One of the great stars in show 
business, Jimmy proved that he dc!>erv*cs our au*ard, 
as well as any others that come hLs u-ay. Tlic entire 
city opened its heart to this great human being. 
It u'as indeed fitting that our main speaker was 

Federal Judge JAMES B. PARSONS, who had 
worked so closely with our late Cardinal on the 
National Conference of Race and Religion. His 
straightfon*'ard presentation lent dignity to the 
dinner, which has become one of Chicago's most 
distinguUhed affairs. 
One of the highlights of the evening for mc was the announcement that the Club's Scholarship Foundation uill award at least one $500-a-ycar scholarship each year. I wish to thank the Board of Governors, as well as the indi\idual chairmen who worked so hard during the past year, for their support. I think the high jioint of my year as presi­dent came when I turned over the check for $2,500 to the Scholarship Foundation. All of us look to the future with confidence as wc sec this money support outstanding Chicago bo>-s at the University. Ulth yo'jr continued support in the future, it will be possible to enlarge this program. 
Our oldest (in years only!) alumnus WILLIAM 

G. FERSTEL "00 was cited as Chicago's "Man of the Year" on UND Night. One of our most en­thusiastic alumni down through the years. Bill Ferstcl remains as Io>'al and interested in the University as the day he left the Golden Dome. His friends tell mc tliat he really suffers through football games, yet had an outstanding record predicting the Fighting Irish victories this past season. Young JIM FERSTEL put together a table to lead the chcei^ for his dad. 
Since UND Night also 5cr\'es as the Club's annual business meeting, the election of officers look place after dinner. Elected by voice vote were: PAT SHANNON '48, a tax consultant, president: THOM.\S G. SEXTON '09, cliainnan of Uie board of John Sexton & Co., honorary president; BILL REYNOLDS '54, vice-president of Independent Con­struction Co., first vice-president; TONY GIRO­LAMI '43, clerk of the Probate Court of Cook County, second vice-president; PAT MON'TROY '53, sales representative for M.C.A. Sign Co.. secretary-; and CHUCK FALKENBERG JR. '52, an attorney, treasurer. 
P.AUL FULLMER, vice-president of The Selz Organization, immediate past president of the Club, and FRANK VOGEL, graduating president of the Chicago Club on campus, will serve one-year terms as ex officio members of the Board of Governors. 
Other newly elected members of the board include: JOE RIG.ALI JR, '51, treasurer of Daprato Studios; MARK CRONIN JR. '45, president of Knicker­bocker Roofing & Paving Co.; JOHN GLE.\SO.\ '36, vice-president of the First National Bank; TOM .MORSCH *53, an aitorricy; HOWARD PHALIN '28, president of Field Enterprises; PAT PHELAN '60, sales promotion dept. of Wilson & Co.; JIM RAFFERT\'' '62. internal auditor for Ditto Inc.; GEORGE SCHIEWE, sales manager for Roy Strom & Co. 
LEN SKOGLUND was chairman of the Nomi­nating Committee and did an excellent Job screening a long list of candidates. Others on his committee were ART CONRAD, JACK MOYNAHAN, PHIL FACCENDA, BILL KEARNEY, BERT METZGER, and JOE PAGLIARI. 
Faccenda, immediate past president of the National Alumni Association, received a special plaque from the University for his outstanding senicc. Special guests were FATHER EDMUND P. JOYCE and FATHER JOHN WALSH. 
Wc have received many favorable reports from members and their families on the Communion Breakfast, which was held the first week in Lent. FR. VLADIMIR TARASEVITCH, pastor of Christ the Redeemer Church, celebrated the Divine Liturgy of the B>*zantine-SIav Rite. An overflow crowd turned out at Old St. Mary's Church for the all-English liturgy. A highlight of this Rite is the reception of Holy Communion under both species. This proved to be a memorable event, especially for the children in attendance. More than 225 then adjourned to the Blackstone Hotel for a delightful brunch. Cliainnan JACK THORNTON and his .ible right hand, WALT ROGERS, did a good job handling all the details. 
MSGR. WILLIAM ^rc^^.\NUS, superintendent of our Catholic schools, was the main speaker. His talk on "Are Catholic Schools NeccS5ar>*?" was well received if the many questions were any indication. 
Incidentally, those of you who might like to par­ticipate in Father's B>'zantine Rite Mass will find the welcome mat out at Christ the Redeemer Church, 3107 W. Fullerion. On the third Sunday of each month he has a special English Lilurgj* at 
12:15 p.m. To give his visitors a chance to become further informed about the church and its work. Father Tarase\iicli hosts an Agape, or informal get-together, immediately afterwards. Since his facilities are limited, give him a call a few da>'s ahead of time if you wish to bring a group. His phone number is CA7-0029. 
FRED HOLZL, our energetic membership chair­man, would like to thank all those who responded to the first notices on dues. t\s you know, dues form the lifcblood of the Club, especially when it rains for the Golf Outing and we have a Icss-lhan­.Micccssful football season! 
Speaking of golf outings, we'll see you at Elmliurst Country Club on Monday, Aug. 2. It's the best in this area. 
—PAUL FULLMER '55. Retiring Pres. 

Cincinnati 
The first quarter of the year 1965 \Os quite active for the ND Cincinnati Club. The regular January* meeting was postponed until Feb. 14 at which lime Coacli JOHN RAY was the guest speaker at a smoker attended by 150 alumni and friends. Coach Ray entertained the group with a colorful narration of the filmed highlights of the '64 football season. 
The March meeting was a dinner affair held at Crammer's German restaurant in downtown Cinc>'. Featured speaker for the evening was PAT HAR­MON, local veteran sportscaster. Pat proved an interesting "lecturer" with his quips and insights into his past experiences, with the S*D family. The 
CALUMET REGION—Several hundred fans greeted Irish grid stars at the annual sports stag in St. Thomas More Hall, Munstcr, Ind. Principals included: (l.-r.) Tim Gal\in Jr., chairman; Jim Carroll, 1964 football captain; Phil Sheridan, captain-elect; Robert Welsh Jr., Calumet ND Club president; Bob Wetoska, Chicago Bears lineman; and John Ray, ND defensive coach. (Photo by £d Brennan *33.) 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus^ July-August, 1963 
UND NIGHT — Nearly 1,200 alumni and friends attended the Notre Danie Night dinner in McCormick Place (top left). During the 
pre-dinner reception (upper right) William G. Ferstel, '00 (second from right) posed with his Man of the Year plaque. 
Looking on arc Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, University exec, vice-president; outgoing President Paul Fullmer, Dinner Chairman Ed 
Moran; incoming President Patrick Shannon; Ferstel; and Rev. John E. Walsh CSC, University vice-president. Lower left: 
Jimmy Durante displays the club's Decency in Entertainment Award at the dinner. Durante then joined Eddie Jackson (lower 
center) for the evening's entertainment. John Gannon of Leo High School (lower right) was awarded the club's S500 
scholarship for the coming term. Gannon (center) is shown as he was introduced before the dinner by Phil Facccnda (left), \ treasurer of the scholarship fund and past president of the National Alumni Association and President Fullmer. 
April meeting featured a color film of River Downs 
Race Track in Cino', handled by JACK WELSH, 
publicity director for the Downs. 
The annual spring dance was held on Saturday, 
^fay 8, and featured cocktails, dinner, and dancing. 
BILL BURKE '54 wus chairman of this popular 
affair which has always been a liighlight. Other 
plans included a dinner meeting in June at the 
Wiedemann Brewing Co- roof garden and the election 
of new ofHccrs. 
—TED DAWSON *61, Scc>-. 
Cleveland 
On Nov. 16, 1964, at Rohr's Restaurant, the Annual Scholarship Drawing Meeting drew a packed house of more than 50 memben. THOMAS MULLI­GAN and JOHN MENDENHALL were co-cliairmen of tliis year's drive. MSGR. EDWARD J. SEWARD had the honor of picking the winner who ^vas THOMAS DOWD, son of ROBERT E. DOWD, past president of the Cleveland Club. Present at the meeting were the following members: JOHN COYNE '53, DICK MILLER '53, CHUCK ROHR '58, DAVE EARDLEY '53, DAVE CARTWRIGHT '45, ED CHUDINSKI '36, TONY DeBAGGIS '57, JIM CAREY '62, TOM HEALY '61, MICHAEL O'NEILL '61, JACK MADER '62, BILL MURPHY '62, CHARLIE BLANCHARD '64, JIM FLAN­NERY '60, R. O'DONNELL '58, RILEY MILLER '59, FRED NAEGLE '48, PHIL MILLER '59, FRANK NOVAK '49, DENNIS BUTLER '62, GUS STEFANEK '52, DICK GAECKLE '52, 
TERRY CONWAY '57, DICK VAN AUKEN '56, 
ROBERT MILLER '57, ROBERT LALLY '50, 
F. J. HOPKINS '41, R. E. DOWD '41, CLAYTON LEROUX '27, TOM McHALE '50, FR.\NK LEDERMANN '30, MIKE KEENAN '60, JOE O'HARA '61, JOHN P. HRIBAR '58, EUGENE KILLEEN '59, PATRICK J. aXNNON '55, JIM COLLINS '32, MSGR. ED SEWARD '34, JOHN 
J. RALEIGH '31, CY CALDWELL '25, JOHN J. COLLINS '32, LAWRENCE P. KRAL '31, RILEY AHLLER '59, PHIL MILLER '59, HERBERT ZAL­LER '39, JOE MAWBY '58, TOM O'DONNELL '58 and BILL SHEEHAN '58. 
President RICHARD H. MILLER introduced bst Nov. 18 a program of montlily luncheons to be held at Rohr's Restaurant. This was later changed to the second floor of the Hickory Grill. To date the turn­out has been gratifying, and it i%'as hoped that these luncheons would become a. permanent part of our Club actixnties. Out-of-town visitors arc invited on. the third Wednesday of each month. 
VINCENT DcCRANE and FRED S. NAEGLE, co-chairmen of the annual Christmas Dance held at the Sheraton Clevebnd Hotel, reported that the turnout was an artistic and financial success. 
TON'Y DeBAGGIS was chairman of the Men's Retreat held in February- at St. Stanislaus Retreat House. 
St. Elias B>'zanline Melkite Catholic Church was the choice of Chairman DAVID aVRTWRIGHT for the Club's Annual Communion Breakfast held on Sunday, March 21, 1965. Guest Speaker was JUDGE THOMAS PARRINO, who gave an in­spiring talk on Catholic Big Brothers. I am sure that all tliose who attended this Mass were both en­

lightened and impressed by the colorful Byzantine 
ritual. 
On April 29 The Cleveland Club held its Universal 

Notre Dame Night at the Sheraton Cleveland Hotel. 
The Rev. H. E. Dunn, S.J., president of John 
Carroll University, gave the prindpal address of the 
e\'ening. An enthusiastic crowd of 250 members and 
guests enjoyed the words of Father Dunn. 
Scheduled for May II was the annual business 

meeting and election of ofHccrs for the forthcoming 
year. A large turnout %%'as hoped for. 
Wc are pleased to announce that PAT CANNY 

has just about completely recovered, and his smiling 
face may be viewied at Rohr's Restaurant any 
noonday. 
Ml of the members and friends of Notre Dame 

mourn the passing of FRANK X. CULL and ask 
that he be remembered in your prayers. 
KEEP THIS WEEKEND OPEN—JULY 9, 10, AND 111 Plan to bring your family to Cedar Point for a weekend of fun, and 'revisiting with old classmates. 
—JOHN P. COYNE, Secy. 

Connecticut Valley 
DR. WILLIAM MILLER BURKE, dean of freshmen at the University and director of Notre Dame's Freshman Year of Studies, spoke at the Connecticut observance of Universal Notre Dame Night on April 27 at the Hawthorne Inn, Berlin, Conn. BOB McGOLDRICK of West Hartford. TOM HUBBARD of ToirJngton and DR. ROBERT ^VARNER of Hamden handled the arrangements. 
Notre Dame Alumus, July-August, 2965 29 
Dallas 
REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH CSC, Uni­vcRitv president: W. LAXOVSTER SMITH, Alumni Assn.' prcsidi-ni: and MOST REV. THO\LAS K. GORMAN. Bishop of Dallas, were hcadlincre of the Universal S'otrc Dame Night program of the Dallas-Fort Worth ND Club on May 3 at the Dallas Club. 
Dayton . 
DR. LAWRENCE BALDINGER, as-socialc dean of tlie Notre Dame College of Science, u-as scheduled as UND Night speaker on .April 24. 
Dearborn 
.All of us in the Dearborn Club (and our wives) have been tr>"ing to dctenninc wliy the Friday meet­ings don't break up until early Saturday morning. JIM KLINK and BILL REAG.AN, hosts early in the year, can attest to u-atching the sun rise over the shoulders of the mt*nibers as tlicy leave. It must be that we're afraid of the cold and arc w-aiting for the xt-arm. penetrating ra\*s of the sun. (I bet BILL FURHM.AN and FR.ANK SHERIDAN haven't tried that excuse yet!) 
Tlie Deariwrn Holiday Inn was the scene for the Club's Dinner Dance, liandled superbly this year by cochairmen BILL DOSNLANN and BOB EIDSCHUN. The turnout was good again this year, although Bill and Bob had some anxious moments about ever>'onc showing up. Tj*picaIIy, the dance was held on the night of a se\'cre sleet storm, but it turned out that lialf of us were btc because JOHN '-DOC*' FISCHER was hosting a farewell cocktail party (he will soon be moving to Florida). Because of this year's Dinner Dance. 1965 will alwaj-s be remembered as "The Year of the Posters." The cochairmen commandeered some 4-by-6-foot deco­rative paintings (?) to brighten up the banquet room. JOHN BONFIGLIO w^s certain he heard the posters were "professionally" drawn, but we all suspect bv kindcrgartners. In any event they were raffled off. and TO.M NELSON and BILL HETTEL were the only rcil winners—their names" iverctt't drawn. 
The Dinner Dance also uas the occasion for winners of the annual drawing, wliich again \\as run by DICK KING. .All of us arc extremely appreciative of Dick's work on the ticket drive because it provides the bulk of our annual operating revenue. 
Sandwiched in between the meetings at GERRY G.ASS's and GEORGE TOBIN's we sponsored an excumon to the Notre Dame-Universitv of Detroit basketball game.- H.ANK DECALU^VE and JIM ENGLEHART were somewhat uneasy because of the loudmouthed antics of \-ours truly. We may have tost the game, but - not the shouting match. April saw the election of 1963 ofEccrs and Slay the annual Communion Breakfast. 
The best treat of the vcar wtis the Annual Stag Part>-ran by BILL DECRICK and DON MUL­L.ANEY. Besides a keg of beer and snacks, the food surely must have been the best in many years. The main reason for the strong turnout of 61 members uas tliat the 1964 ND football highlights film uas shown.- It was certainly wonderful to sec the famous spirit of Notre Dame at a supercharged pitcli once again. But "BOB'MISSEL and GERRY McNERNEY were wondering if any other Domers in the country-noticed Norm Nicola^s being the first to hug the scorer of each touchdown. Let's hope that kind of spirit never dies. 
—CHARLIE KITZ '58, Retiring Sec>-Treas. 

Decatur 
BUZZ MORAX was chairman of Universal Notre 

Dame Night, held in Decatur on .April 29 and 
featuring JOHN H. JAXOWSKI, editor of Notre 
Dame magazine. 
BILL DOWNING set up the arrangements for the Stag Golf Outing at the Decatur Countrj- Club June 8. featuring golf, cocktails and a steak dinner. 
Delaware 
The Noire Dame Club of Delauarc pbnned a stag night on' April 21, 1965. The Football High­lights of 1964 were the feature of the evening. ART DI SABATINO '59 and BOB DALY '59 arc co-chairmen for the event. 
The Delaware All-Star Football Game was played for the benefit of the mentally retarded children of the State. Tlie Notre Dame Club of Delaware presented its trophy to Ralph Donofrio. Club presi­dent .Art Di Sabatino did the honors. 
—DENNIS A. PETRILLO, JR., Scc>-Trcas. 

Denver 
We appreciate your arranging for Coach Tom Pagna as our guest on Universal Notre Dame Xight here on May 15. 
Tlic follou-ing are the Denver Club's new officers and diFcctors for the year May 1, 1965-May 1, 1966: President, J.AMES R. HILGER JR. '56; Vice-President. PATRICK C. ^fcMAHON '50; Treasurer. CHARLES J. BAIER '51; Secretary, JOHN W. DELINE '61; Board of Directors, LEON W. ARCHER '29, FRANKLIN L. CO-NWAY '27, CARL F. EIBERGER '52, EDWARD M. M.A­HO-NEY '52, ALFRED ^L O'MEARA JR. '40, GERALD J. SMITH '27, and ROBERT H. ZEIS JR. '54. 
Gcrr>* Smith, who so richly deser\"es it, received our Man of the Year Award on May 15. This is only the seventh time the Club lias presented the .Award in the past twenty years. 
—JAMES R. HILGER JR., Pres. 

Detroit 
On Tuesday, April 27, 1965, the Forty-Second .Annual Universal Notre Dame Night was obscrx'ed at the Latin Quarter, 3057 East Grand Boulevard. Detroit. 
Included among the guests were REV, JOHN E. WALSH CSC, a vice-president of the University, and Horsemen ELMER L.AYDE.V, JIM CROWLEY and DO-\ MILLER. 
Detroit's civic, financial and industrial leaders were in attendance and were assured of an interesting program and an cnjov'able evening. LEE ^lOOR-MAN and LING WURZER were cochairmen. 
The Annual Notre Dame Retreat at Manrcsa liad Fr. Bernard J. Wernert SJ, as spiritual director for Notre Dame men, guests and friends, March 5, 6 and 7. 
JIM MOTSCHALL w^s chainuan, and JACK BREEN u-as co-chainnan. 

A new roster of Notre Dame .Alumni residing in 
the Detroit Metropolitan area has been prepared. 
It contains the names, home addresses, occupations, 
business addresses and phones of over 800 members, 
if the information was a\-ailable. In addition the 
1965 and 1966 football schedules are listed. 
JACK MURRAY u-as chairman of the .Annual 
Business Meeting of the Noire Dame Club of 
Detroit, held on Tuesday, March 16, 1963, at the 
University Club. 
Nominations for Directors for the coming year 
were made. .After the General Meeting, movies of 
the 19G4 Southern California game were shown. 
The officers and directors of the Notre Dame Club 
for the fiical year ending March 31, 1966, are: 
Officere: President, JOHN C. MURRAY; First 
Vice-President, EDWARD J. GILBERT; Second 
Vice-President, LOUIS C. BOSCO JR.; Secretary. 
DANIEL J. KELLY; and Treasurer. JOHN B. 
MORG.AN. 
Directors (other than above): JOHN W. .ANHUT, LOUIS G. BASSO JR., EDWARD A. BRACKEN JR., JOSEPH H. CAREY, GUS CIFELLL WILLIAM M. HENNEGHAN. MALCOLM F. KNAUS, JAMES F. MOLONEY. JAMES N. MOTSCHALL, JOHN P. O'NEILL. JOHN R. PANELLL WILLIAM C. RONEY JR. and C; M. VERBIEST. 
—DANIEL J. KELLY, Secy. 

Elkhart 
The Notre Dame Club of Elkhart Ind., obsened Universal Xotrc Dame X'ight on May 5. Approxi­mately 50 alumni friends and wives gathered at Hotel Elkhart. The program chainnan uas JOHN GILDEA and the ^L C. was VINCE DOYLE. 
After dinner entertainment u-as furnished by the Octette from the X'otrc Dame Glee Club. .A short business meeting elected the following as ofiicers for the coming year: President, JAMES D. ASH '33. Vice-President, DANIEL P. WYNYKOSKI '50. Secretary JOHN R. GILDE.A '62, and Treasurer, JAMES E. HAYES '49. ROBERT F. HOLT2 was chairman of the nomination committee. 
The showing of the "Highlights of 1964" con­cluded the program for the affair. 
On the committee which handled the arrangements Were Mr. & Mrs. AL SPAHN, Mr. & Mrs. LARRY METCALF and Mr. & Mrs. DAN WYN*YKOSKI. 
—JOHN GILDEA. Seo". 

Erie 
The Notre Danic Alumni Club of Erie, Pa., held Uuiversal Notre Datne Night here in Erie just like the many ND Clubs throughout the world. Tlie c\-cnt proved to be a most enjo>-abte evening for all. 
.Among those who attended were: ^{ess^5. & Mmes. WILLIAM A\LANN, JOSEPH B.ARBER '36. ROBERT BARBER '40, THOXLAS B.ATES '60. ROBERT BECKER, LEO BRUGGER '34. LEO BRUGGER JR. '61, DO.VALD BUSECK '50, JACK •' DAUT, JIM EHRMAX '61, HOWARD ESSICK • '41, THOMAS GALLAGHER '55. WILLIAM GRANT '45, PHILIP HAGGERTY '33, EDWARD KERN '36, HERBERT KERN '54. NORBERT LEWIS, WALTER LUEDTKE, ROBERT LUKES '49, JI.M M.AHON'EY '51, JOHN McCOR.MICK JR. '53, JOHN McCORMICK Hon. '17. RICH.ARD 
CHICAGO — The Chicago Club's Board of Governors took note of the University's new "girls-in-dasses" policy and invited the Ladies Auxiliary to their meeting recently. Some early arrivals included (back row, left to right) Ed Dunn, Phil Faccenda, Don Hoss, Norris Bishton, Ed Moran, Paul Fullmer, Pat Shannon, Art Conrad, George Schiewe, Fred Helzl, and Walt Rogers. (Front row, left to right) Mrs. John D. Moynahan, Mrs. Charles Hickman, Mrs. Fred Salmon Jr., Mrs. Cyrus Freidheim and Mrs. Paul Fullmer. 
^30 •Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
MORE UND NIGHT — Calumet installed new officers for the year (upper left) at the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner. They arc 
James Bielefeld^ Crown Point, special events; Thomas Gozdecki, IVIunsterj treasurer; James Kinnanc, Whiting, vice-president; Jack O^Drobinak, Whiting, director; Robert J. Welsh Jr., Gary, president; Timothy P. Gavin Jr., Hammond, secretary; and Dennis 
Burke, Gary, director. (Upper right) Mrs. William TraWs was awarded a plaque for "unustial services rendered" in fund­
raising drives. Looking on here are Rev. Charles S. Sheedy CSC, dean of the College of .Arts and Letters; Welsh; and past president Anthony Kuharich (right). (Lower left) Patrick Afaloney M6 was named man of the year by the Club. He is being 
presented with the award by Kuharich while hb wife, two daughters (both nuns at Rosary College, River Forest, HI.) and son Patrick (a priest at Notre Dame) watch. (Lower right) the Club's third scholarship is presented to Robert Tisoncik, graduate of Thorton Fractional South, Lansing, III. (second from left) by Welsh. Looking on arc previous winners Steve Kurowski, a freshman in journalism, and George Senko Jr., a junior science student. 
McCORMICK '55, TIM McCORMICK '55, PAUL 
ROCHE, ROBERT ROCHE, LEWIS SHIOLENO 
'49. JOSEPH STADLER '53, UVWRENCE STAD­
LER '29. ROBERT WESCHLER. ROBERT 
WINSCHEL '51. CHARLES WITT.\L\NX '32, 
JOHN YOUNG '51, ANTHONY Zx\MBROSKI '52, 
and FRANK RILEY '57; Judge & Mrs. JAMES 
D\VYER '37. and Messrs. MIKE McCOR.MICK '61, 
JOHN PALMIS.\NO '55, Atiy. TOM BARBER 
'24. and LEO CARNEY '30. 
Erie Club plans for the .Annual Summer Picnic 
arc finalizing as the deadline for this column 
approaches. As of now It looks like July 10, 1965. 
will be the dale. The first year students and their 
parents will be the honored guests. The main purpose 
of this affair is to introduce lo the alumni all the 
students who will start their undergraduate studies 
al ND in September. 
An article by DANIEL J. KOENIG '62, in­structor in sociology at Gannon College, appeared in the fall issue of Sociological Analysis. Dan's article was entitled ''Catholic Socio1og>' in the American 
Catholic Sociological Reviczc." Mr. Kocnig hosted 
DR. JOHN KANE, professor of sociology at Notre Dame, on April 9 for a lecture in Erie on "Elder­care or Medicare." MICHAEL OVSHORE MA 'G4. instructor in tlicolog>' at Merc>'hurst College in Erie, participated in the Civil Rights bus trip to Montgomery* in late March. Mike also addressed the rally here in Erie. TOM BATES '60, and wife Barbara celebrated the birth of their second boy, Michael Joseph, on March 19, Tom has been seen several times these jiast fe%v weeks in \-arious hard­ware and other stores gathering the materials needed to ready their new house for occupancy'. 

REV. JOSEPH HIPP '49 is quite busy with his duties as financial aid officer at Gannon College. Two members of ND's 1964-1965 basketball team, WALT SAH.M and LARRY SHEFFIELD '65, par­ticipated in the 1st annual North-South .-\ll Star Basketball Classic here in Erie on March 27. Both bo>s did a wonderful fob representing Notre Dame. .MIKE McCOR.MICK '61 has been seen around touti with several new dates of late. Everyone here thought that Mike would be married by now. I guess as these bachelors get older, they get a little smarter loo. 
—LEO BRUGGER JR., Secy. 
Fairfield County 
Alumni Secretary JAMES E. ARMSTRO.N'G was guest speaker at a Universal Notre Dame Night din­ner on June 25. 
Flint 
Universal Notre Dame Night was obscr\*ed by the Notre Dante Club of Flint, Mich., with a dinner-dance May 25 at Flint Golf Club. Guest speaker w ^ DR. LA\VRE.\CE B.\LDINGER, assocmte dean of the ND College of Science. 
The Club met March 5, 1965, at the Elks Club and installed ofHcers for the year'as follows: Presi­dent, ALFRED P. >L-\NSOUR '51; 1st Vice-Pres., THADDEUS J. .MAN'YAK '48; 2nd Vice-Prcs.. DONALD F. ifacDO.VALD. JR. '58; and Secre­tarj-Trcas., WILLIAM F. MINARDO '32. 
Directors were named as follows: DR. WILLIAM 
E. M.\CKSOOD, WILLIAM F. MINARDO, EDWARD KRUPA, E. A. SHERWOOD, ARTHUR PAR^\DIS and PAUL C. HUGHES. 
Chairmen for the annual Xotre Dame Night dinner were VICTOR E. GEORGE and R.\YMOND J. KELLY. Cliainnen for the Club's other activities were also named: Golf Stag, ARTHUR PARADIS, EDWARD KRUPA, RICHARD J. CRA.MER; Family Picnic, THOMxVS F. H.ALLIGAN and ROBERT SIBILSKY; Football Etcuraion. PAUL HUGHES and BILL MI.VARDO; Communion 

Breakfast, TED .NLAN^YAK and DR. WILLL\M .MACKSOOD. Following the meeting a film of the 1961 Notre Dame-Southern California football game was shown. —WILLIAM F. NHN.ARDO, Sccy-Trcas. 
n. Louderdale 
The new officers of the Notre Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale were installed at the first regular meeting of the year on Jan. 14. BOB McDONOUGH *52, past president.introduced the new officers: GEORGE PATTERSON L-'58, Pres.; BOB GORE '31, V-P.; ED TROMBETTA '60, Treas.; BOB BLAIKIE '56, Sec\*. President Patterson then ouUined the program for the new year, which included a visit by ^IOOSE KRAUSE and DICK RUWE '56 in February to explain the University's Challenge II Program; the yearly St. Pat's Day Dance in March; the annual convention held this year in Nassau, April 30 through May 1; the June Golf outing, the .August Freshman sendofT; TV football game get-together in September; ND Club Sweepstakes, and our annual Communion Breakfast. 
The St. Patrick's Day Dance proved as usual to be one of the most enjoyable and outstanding attractions of the year. GEORGE ERNST w^ a great help with the arrangements. Some of those present included TOM AI.AUS '57 and wife Judy; BILL THIES '60 and wife Mimi; JOHN McGINX '54, mayor of Lighthouse Point, and wife Marlenc; FR.ANK McGIN.N '52 and wife Betty; BILL .MOTSETT '34 and wife Teed; JIM MOTSETT '64; .Marion and TED GORE '50, GEORGE ERNST '29 and wife Trudy; and BOB GORE '31 and his wife Mar^e. 
We were looking forward with great anticipation lo the convention beginning April 30 at the British Colonial Hotel in Nassau. BOB McDONOUGH '52, this year's Convention Committee chairman, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August J 965 
^Knt many long hours on this one and -.s-as ably 
assisted by HUGH MALOKEY and BILL CUTH­
BERTSON. As usual, there were {adlttles for golf, 
-swimming, tennis, and of course fishing, not . to 
mention the many shops and clubs which offer 
unusual bargains and cxdting entertainment. The 
high point of the convention was UND Night and 
the Man of the Year Award to TOM WALKER 
'42 for his years of work and leadership w*htch con­
tributes in no small measure to our Club's current 
success. Incidently, air rcscn'ations wicrc made witli 
Mackey Airlines through CHARLIE RUDD '54 and 
he was largely responsible for our being able to 
sdect Nassau as our convention site. 
We shall look forward to the next edition of the 
alumni magazine to keep up w*ith old friendships. 
In the meantime wc send >-ou our best regards from 
the Sunny South. 
—ROBERT BLAIKIE '56, Secy. 
Fort Wayne 
The annual Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner 
and award for "Notre Dame Man of the Year" 
were held on Mondav, April 26. We were most 
pleased that F.\THER THEODORE HESBURGH, 
president of the Universit>-, ^^-as our guest and 
prindpal speaker. 
Cluunber of Commerce Building rescrx'ations were 
limited to 300 people and w*en: accepted in the 
order they were received. Guests were welcome. 
One of the features of the program was the presentation of the Man-of-the-Year A\rard. A com­mittee comprised of previous award recipients made the selection after e\'aluating the nominations made by members of the Notre Dame Club of Fort AVa>T)c. The .committee included JOSEPH COLLIGAN, RICHARD T.- DOERMER, ROY E. GRIMMER JR., HENRY HASLEY, HARRY G. HOGAN, BERNARD T. KEARNS, DONNELLY P. Mc-DONALD SR., DONNELLY P. McDONALD JR., LOUIS F. NIEZER. JEROME J. O'DOWD, J. THOMAS O'REILLY, CLIFFORD B. AVARD and Chairman JAMES F. KEENAN. 
In requests to nominate the candidate for this year's award, it w*as noted that nominaiions u'cre not restricted to Notre Dame graduates. .-Xccordingly, the first award to a non-alumnus went to Edwtird 
M. Dahm, who spearheaded the Citizens for Decent Literature in Fort WajTie in addition to many other acti\*itie5. 
Hawaii 
The following events liavc transpired out in our state in the blue FadBc Elected to ofHcc for the current year at the meeting in January were Presi­dent HARVEY LUNG. Vice-President ALBERT LUM, Treasurer RICHARD MUIL\TA, and Secre­tary NOEL E. DAY. This meeting was also tlie occasion for the showing of the 1964 Notre Dame football highlights. It was attended by approximately 100 people—alumni, guests and friends of the Club. This showing was enthusi3;stically received and made for a very successful meeting. 

On April 26 Universal Notre Dame Night was c:clebrated at the Ketch Room of tlie Uikai Hotel in the form of a cocktail and dinner banquet. Guest speaker for the evening was Marianist Brollicr Eugene Frank, PhD in ph>'sics from Case Institute of Technology and UCLA, who is presently an assistant professor in the science department at Chaminade College. Brother Frank's talk concerned education and sdcncc which was in keeping with the lOO-Years-of-Science theme at Notre Dame. Other guests included Fatlier Francis Chun, in­structor of Philosophy at Chaminade College; Brother Joseph Hoffman, prindpal of St. Louis High School; and Irish Christian Brother R. Donnalcy, athletic director of Damien Memorial High School, Honolulu. 
—HARVEY Y. D. LUNG, Pres. 
Houston 

FATHER HESBURGH was guest speaker on the Science Centennial theme of Universal Notre Dame Night May 4 at the River Oaks Country Club, Houston, Tex. He spoke on the capadty of sdencc for eliminating hunger, illness, homclcssness and other problems that plague mankind. He was intro­duced by Club President BOB DILLON. DONALD O^BRIEN, prominent local advertising executive, was named ND Man of the Year. LEO LINBECK was chairman of the c\'ent. 
Indianapolis 

Sacnce must be dedicated to "Eomething else bendes maldng money," FATHER HESBURGH told Indianapolis alumni on April 27 in a talk on Notre Dame's 100 Years of Science for the 42nd Annual UND Night. John M. Boyle, a Cathedral High senior, and Charles Lauck, all-dty fullback The hardy souls who braved the cold to attend from Sacred Heart High, were awarded scholarships the January meeting heard ROG HUTER '40 give by the Club committee, BILL SAHM. DR. PAUL the report of another successful football trip sweep­MULLER and JOHN RYAN. Man of the Year for 
stakes. A total of 1503 shares were sold for a net '65 is J. .ALBRIGHT SMITH, xice-prcsidcnt of profit of $1109. This amount plus previous proceeds American Fletcher National Bank & Trust. was judged enough to guarantee a local boy a 
New Club officers announced at the dinner arc: 

partial four^ycar scholarship to ND. By the time RICHARD F. McNA^L^RA, president; WILLIAM 
this edidon hits the street, the scholarship redpient 
will have been chosen. secretary; RICHARD K. OWENS, treasurer; LEO The February meeting attracted the largest crowd K. McGOWAN JR., \-ice-prcs.; ROBERT E. KANE, 
A. BARNHORST and FRED L. MAHAFFEY, for a regular meeting in many a year, thanks to a board members. little production entitled "1964 Football Highlights" TOM KERN and BILL McGOWAN were co-starring Ara's Irish. In fact the meeting was such chairmen of the event, held at the Indianapolis a success that plans are to repeat every year, as .\thletic Club. soon after the football season that the * films are available. Something to look forward to, all you fans. Father Theodore Bowling SJ, brother of JOE '52 Jersey Shore and BERNIE BOWLING '44 provided the stimulus Tlie Club held a "Sports Night" March 3 at the for a ver>- interesting March meeting. Father showed Knishts of Columbus, Fair Haven, N.J. Guest slides taken during the se\*eral years he resided in speakers included: ANGELO BERTELLI, former India as a professor of chemistry and ph>'sics at 
S*D quarterback and Heisman Trophy dinner; DeNobile College. FRANK TRIPUCKA, AU-.American quarterback in 
As alu-a>3, the highlight event of the year ^v-as 1948; and BILL DIOGUARDI, former Irish base­Universal Notre Dame Night, held this year on ball star and present baseball coach at Montdair April 28 at Wildwood Country Club. An extra mea­Slate College. Also present «-as JOHNNY DRUZE, sure of local entliusiasm was generated by guest a former ND coach. Club President RAY TIERNEY speaker JOHNNY DEE, head basketball coach. Some JR. concluded with a discussion of Universal Notre 200 alumni and guests attended to hear (and cheer!) 

Dame Night. 

the man who gave ND alumni a chance to win The UND Night dinner \%'as held at the Shadow-back a few bets from the local U of K fans! brook Restaurant, Shrcu-sbur>', N.J., in late April 
Se%'eral customary and one special au-ard were made with ND Alumni Secrelarj- JIM ARMSTRONG as . during the course of the evening. The Notre Dame 
guest speaker. 

Man of the Year citation was awarded to BILL 
—PETER M. BELMONT '44, Scc>-. PALMEIR '48, a former Club officer and member 
of innumerable working committees over the years. 
Outgoing Pres. BOB WILLENBRINK '49 received 
Kansas City 

an engraved silver tray as a remembrance of his The forty-second annual Universal Notre Dame >*ear of ser\'ice. Bob in turn made a special presenta­Night was celebrated Monday, May 17, at the Black tion to Fred Steier, a friend of the University who Angus Restaurant with a reception and dinner. 
has been an outstanding salesman for the football JOHN RAY, tlie University's head defensive foot­scholarship' fund during the past three years. 
ball coach, was the featured guest speaker. The Local custom dictates tliat UND Night marks the film which he showed and the reports which he end of a Club year and the beginning of a new related regarding the coming season were most administration. Accordingly, the 1965-66 Club officers encouraging. The master of ceremonies was ROGER were introduced: Pres. BILL SHERMAN '58, 1st V.ALDISERRI '54, public rebiions director of the Vice-Prcs. BOB HUETZ '58, 2nd Vice-Pres. JACK Kansas Cit\- Chiefs. Tlie cliairman was JOSEPH ZUFELT '57, Secretary JOHN HUBBUCH '61, SHAUGHNESSY JR. '56. 

Trcas. ED SCHNURR '62, Directors DR. NORB In recognition of the role of Catliolic thought in CASPER '36 and JOE D'ANTONI '54. 
journalism, the "Man of the Year" au-ard, which is customarily a part of Universal Notre Dame Night, 

The formal meeting adjourned with a vote of was presented to JOHN T. ELSON '53, associate 
thanks for general chairman JACK DOUGHERTY editor of Time magazine. 
'49 and committee chairman BILL PALMER '48, BILL KELLY '51, BILL SHERMAN '58, JACK TOM McGEE '54 was named to fill the unexpired ZUFELT '57 and BILL NUNNELLEY '50 for pro­term as vice-president which was \'acated by the viding an enjo>'able evening. 
move of a-\RL ERFFMEYER '51 to St. Louis, Mo. There was a meeting of the Club officers on May 

Before adjourning this report, and handing over 22, to discuss the feasibility of a charter flight to 
the typewriter to John Hubbucli, a reminder is in Miami, Fla., for the Notre Dame-Miami football 
order: the ND-Xavicr outing is coming up, along game to be played Nov. 27. Present at the meeting 
with a full slate of fall and winter activities, so if xvcre the officers: HAROLD SOLOMON '47 presi­
you aren't currently on the Club mailing list, contact dent; CH.\RLES O'NEILL '57 and TOM McGEE 
any of the above officers and your name will be '54, vice-presidents; MIKE HOGAN '56, secretary; 
added. and TOM FLEMING '59. treasurer. Also present was —JACK ZUFELT '57, Retiring Sec>-. JIM HIGGINS '53, who offered to examine the possibilities of such a trip. 
Lansing 
—MICH.AEL J. HOG.\N '56, Sec>-. 

We finally resumed our monthly luncheon get­togethers on March 8, 1965. The pbce is .Archie Kentucky Tarpoff's restaurant located at 124 East Kalamazoo Column deadline time is here again, and since Street, and the time is 12:00 o'dock noon. For this report has to cover a lot of ground, your those who arc not familbr with TarpolTs, you can correspondent had best get his mind off the golf expect to pay as Htde as $1.00 for a vcr>* good course and back to the tjTiewriter. sandtrich with rolls and plenty of coffee, and witli 
HAWAII—^Bcst (or at least prettiest) faces forward, Hawaiian alumni paused for the traditional group photo during Universal Notre Dame ceremonies in April, hdd in the Ketch Room of Honolulu's Uikai Hotel for members and wives. 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
a little effort you can get served and be ready -to leave by 1:00 PM. 
Our next annual event was "Knute Rockne Com­munion Sunday*' for fathers and sons April 4 at-St. Vincent Home. 
We were saddened by the news of the death of JOHN POWERS' father in Richmond, Va. The Club requested a high Mass for his intention, and wc wish all who know John to offer an extra prayer for Mr. Powers. 
Our Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner Com­mittee completed its arrangements for celebrating this annual event along with the more than 190 other alumni dubs throughout the world. Our wives and friends joined us at TarpofTs Restaurant Oak Room, Lansing. Mich., Wednesday, ifay 12, 1965. 
Guest speaker was DR. WILLIAM M. BURKE, dean of freshmen and director of the Freshman Year of Studies at the University. We were most fortunate in having Dean Burke visit with us. Prior to being assigned to hb current administrative post in August, 1961, Dean Burke has been an Associate Professor of English and Academic Student Advisor since joining the Notre Dame Faculty in 1949. The theme of this 42nd Annual Universal Notre Dame Night wtis '*A Century of Science at Notre Dame,** and our speaker touched upon this and other items of interest to alumnt and friends of Notre Dame. 
JOHN POWERS, BOB MOONEY and DICK .\LFES were on the UND Night Committee. 
Lehigh Valley 
The growth of the sciences at the University of Notre Dame over the past century was discussed at a Lehigh Valley Notre Dame Club dinner-dance in the Hotel Travlor, Allcntown, Pa. 
TIic speaker was HARVEY G. FOSTER, vice-president of audits and security for American Air­lines and a former FBI agent. TItc program, the Club's annual Universal Noire Dame Night, began with a holy hour in St. Catherine of Sicna Cathedral and included naming the late JOHN B. MAGILL, former assistant superinicndent, merchandise, Allen­town Works, Western Electric Co., as the Club's "Man of the Year." 
The posthumous honor was announced by DR. LOUIS T. G.\BRIEL, Allcntown surgeon. 
Los Angeles 

The Club's annual business meeting was Iicid on Wednesday, March 24, 1965, in Conference Room C of the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel. The agenda included—review of club policy, preliminary makeup of next year's activies, a treasure's report, and election of three new directors. The new directors were elected for three-year terms. Directors com­pleting their term of office arc PAT KEARNS '55, MIKE MURPHY '56, and BEN SALVATY '32. New directors are JOE SCOTT '52, BEN SALVATY Jr. '62, and STEVE FINAN *37. Congratulations! The Club's annual Universal Notre Dame Night was held on Monday night, .April 26, at the Holly­wood Roosevelt Hotel. We have invited several local and University people as our guests for the evening and as of this date have received acceptances from Hon. Thomas L>-nch, attorney- general of the State of California, REV. THOMAS O'DONNELL CSC of the University, and PROF. EDWARD FISCHER, professor of Communication Arts at the University. 
The annual sports dinner stag which is an annual pre-Lenten club activity has had to be rescheduled due to the heavy schedule of the University's athletic staff. The busy schedule is understandable in light of the success of this year's team. .-Vs a result we scheduled a stag dinner for early June. 
A repeat of the highly successful weekend trip to San Francisco (Stanford game, iwo years ago) has been scheduled. Notre Dame's first game of the '65 season will be played on September 18 with Cali­fornia at Berkeley. The club will sponsor an ex­cursion to San Francisco for that weekend. Accom­modations have already been secured at the St. Francis Hotel and transportation will be provided by Boeing 727 jets. As was the case two years ago, all arrangements (e.g., transportation in the bay area, baggage handling) will be taken care of; all you have to do. is show up. There is one exception however, and that is, game tickets. These will have to be secured from the University on a personal basis. Applications for these tickets will be sent to you by the University in late June or early July, if you do not receive them, write the Football Ticket Committee, Notre Dame, Ind. 
A cocktail party has been scheduled for July. A picnic will also be held during the summer—in July or August. It is realized that club members cannot attend all events, so an effort is made to vary the activities. This is evidenced by the above mentioned activities, a rather formal affair in .April 
FORT WAYNE — Edward M. Dahm 
(right) was the first non-Notre Dame 
alumnus to be mimed Afan-of-the-Year 
by the Fort Wayne Notre Dame Alumni 
Club April 26. Fr. Hcsburgh (left) was 
the principal speaker and James Keenan 
(center), winner of the award in 1964, 
presented Dahm with his plaque. Dahm 
heads the Fort Wayne chapter of Citizens 
for Decent Literature. 
for members, wives, and guesis: a stag event in 
June; a cocktail party in July; a family picnic in 
August; followed by the football trip in September, 
again for members, wives, and guests. 
REV. A. J. HEINZER CSC '41, the club chaplain 
and Director of the Family Theater thanks all who 
contributed tou"ard the Family Theater's Lenten 
poster campaign. Through contributions approxi­
mately 2500 billboards were displayed nationally and 
150 in the Los Angeles area, 
EDWARD "MOOSE" KR.\USE was in Los 
Angeles for a day in January- to receive the Howard 
Jones Memorial Trophy, emblematic of the No. 1 
football team in the countr>*. The trophy is awarded 
by the Howard Jones Foundation and was given to 
Moose by Dr. Norman Topping, President of USC. 
The Club, along with several other organizations 
and the Catholic Press Council, co-sponsored a 
dinner honoring James Francis Cardinal McIntjTC 
for his contributions to education. The affair u-as 
held in late February' at the Coconut Grove. Speakers 
included His Eminence, Dr. Max Rafferty, State 
Superintendent of Schools, and Bob Hope. 
—ROBERT L. GERVAIS, Prcs. 
Maine 
We here in Maine have limited meetings since our membership of 25 is scattered over a distance of 500 miles. However, we are already planning our Notre Dame picnic, which will be held at Camp Sebaik—most probably on Saturday, Aug. 28. At this meeting students, prospective students, alumni, wives, friends, and children will gather in a gleeful day at a delightful resort camp run by the Holy Cross Fathers on the shores of Lake Sebago in Maine. 
Thb is a delightful camp for Notre Dame men to send their children for a summer vacation. Having personal experience, I- assure my fellow alumni that Sebaik is a" wonderful camp. 
Very shortly-Gciger Bros, will have a new sign along the ^faine Turnpike that is just south of Exit 13 on- the right hand side going south, and the left hand side going north. Any Notre Dame men passing by should stop in for a visit. 
—RAY GEIGER. Secy. 
Mansfield 
DR. LAWRENCE BALDINGER, associate dean of the ND College of Science, was guest speaker for Mansfield's Universal ND Night in April. 
McHeniy County 

Wc of Illinois' Cry-stal Lake area made the final arrangements for Universal Notre Dame Night, and I think wc had a nice turnout. 
Wc decided to present a "Man of the Year" award to WILLIAM DESMOND, who attended Notre Dame in 1902-03, played football as a fresh­
man, won his monogram, and has been a voniafvl supporter ever MDCC. —JOSEPH A. CONERTY, JR.. Pre*. . 
Michigan City 
The officers of the Michigan City Notre Dame Club for 1963 are as follows: LEON A. DARGIS, president; ROBERT E. MILLER, vice-presklent; STEPHEN E. JANUS, secretary; and WILUAH 
J. PRIEBE, treasurer. 
Universal Notre Dame Night %V3S held May 22 at Long Beach Country Club. Guest speaker was BERNARD TEAH, director of production of germ-free animab at Lobund Lab. 
—S. E. JANUS JR., Secy. 

Mid-Hudson Valley 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, national executive sec­retary of the ND Alumni Assn., paid a TCtum vint to the Poughlteepsie area for Universal Notre Dame Night on April 27. 
Mississippi 
We Mississippi Rebels were indeed honored in March ' to have the pleasure and privilege of havii^ as our guest the President of the University, Father Hes-burgh. I was personally honored to first have him visit my home to meet again many of our Mtsnsnppi alumni as well as some of oiu: other fine Catholic Mississippians. A fine meeting and dinner followed the Fellou-ship Hour—"true southern style." 
The occasion of Father Hcsburgh's visit to Jackson, and the purpose of same, we cannot honestly uprce in all aspects. However .. . I as well as many other alumni believe that \*oting rights in Misnsuppi as well as attendance rights at Notre Dame are something a person is qualified for on his ability. 
—WILLL«1 H. XHLLER '30, Prcs. 

Mohawk Valley 
The Notre Dame Club of the Mohawk Valley has elected officers for 1965-1966 as follows: I^esident, MICHAEL J. McGUIRL JR. '49; Vice-Preudent (Student Affairs), M. AHCHAEL PHILLIPS '58; Treasurer, FELIX M. AQUINO '50; and Secre­tary, ItWMOND M. BELDEN '49. 
UND Night was observed April 22 at the Twin Ponds Golf and Country Club, Utica, N.Y., with FATHER JOYCE as guest sp«»ker. 
—RAYMOND BELDEN, Secy. 

Muskegon 
STAN TYLER triumphed terrifically with a ca­pable assist from JIM MORSE, the two of whom combined with their gorgeous wives to arrange a beautiful affair (e\-en potted plants for the ladies) for the local obser\'ance of Universal Notre Dame Night at the Black Angus Restaurant in Muskegon on Monday, May 10. 
We had some competition from the local Diocesan ­Development Fund Dinner, which happened to be "pla>-ing" in Muskegon that evening so that wc missed such distinguished and a£9uent alumni as DONOVAN, LUDWIG et al. who, in deference to His Excellency Bishop Babcock, were of necessity "on display" in the arena (the DDF dinner was at the L. C. Walker arena). 
•It must have been good ol' HUGHIE DEVORE along with that rising liluskegon Catholic Central star from the University, BILL WOLSKI, and the prospects of something on football, interspersed with a few remarks touching on the cultural and sci­entific atmosphere that surrounds Notre Ddme, that brought out 59 less-distingubhed and loweiwechelon alumni (with all due respects to such prominent alums as GEORGE CANNON JR. & FRANK OEHLHOFFEN who attended ours) to enjoy the fellowship and the warmth and glow that emanate from any Notre Dame gathering. 
I am aware of the exact number because in the absence of our able treasurer, BILL TAROANI, who was unable to attend because of the death of a close friend, it de\'olved upon yours truly to corral the coin from the financially' reluctant fellows to cover the eventual tab. It appeared that we might be $1.25 short in the cash department until the apparent loss was reconciled with the realization that free-spending JOHN FREDERICK had tendered a check for ten so that he might have $1.50 change for refreshments and pre-dinncr diversion. The other f.25 came about fnmi a tarnished two-bit piece apparently dropped and abandoned on the floor by the TOM MOOREs, now of Muskegon and accompanied by the HEN-NIG.ANs of Detroit, and which I was able to snare to club purposes just as GEORGE CANNON 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 33 
xfas about to put his foot down on, the rrlic. 

Hughle did a wonderful job of "'carrving the ball** and it u'as refreshing to hear him and also sec him at the head table flanked by Muskegon and Xolre Dame's greats of the past (JIM MORSE) and present (Bill Wolski] who made appropriate and timely comments. 
A Iiappy and delightful feature of the evening should be noted in the fact that through JACK FITZPATRICK, scholarship chairman, we made a ^00.00 scholarship avs^rd to Joe Dutmers, a fine Muskegon Catholic Central senior, and the son of Mr. and Mrs. Don Dutmers of Muskegon. Thanks to our annual golf slag. 
TIic line of least resbiance with respect to offi­cers is to do nothing, which is exactly what liappencd, and thus the incumbents, of whom you are well aware, continue until any successors are elected and qualified. And so through inaction and perliaps intended inadvertence the perversity of the past is perpetuated to progeny and you will Iiavc to bear with us for another year—viz. Tyler, Morse. Tardani & Linck. 
In dosing let me say that if I have rambled and gone on a riotous rampage you must lay the cliargc to the truly genuine warmth and felloi\-ship that signaled our local observance of Universal Notre Dame Night under the sign of the benevolent black bull of the Angus. 
P.S.—Wc intend another summer golf stag—it should be bigger and better. —LEO L. LIXCK, Seo-. 

Nashville 
The Notre Dame Club of Nashville held a dinner dance on Dec. 26. and it u^is a success. DICK MARTIN '54 \»-as project officer. We had about 25 couples and all seemed to Iiave a good lime. The students home for the holida>s at­tended and of course the old guard .-Mumni were there. 
Our next big project ^^•as a meeting in .April. Official stationerv- should soon be a\-ailabU-—so all in all I think the club is off to a good start. 
—CH.\RLES SPICKA. Secy. 

Naugotuck Valley 
Naugatuck alumni were co-hosts of the Con­necticut-wide obser\-ance of Universal Notre Dame Night .April 27 in Berlin, Conn., featuring an address by ND Freshman Dean WILLIAM BURKE, a native of Mcriden. 

New Haven 
New Haven alumm took part in Connecticut's UND Night ceremonies in Berlin April 27, featur­ing DR. WILLIAM M, BURKE, dean of freshmen at the University. President DR. BOB W.ARNER was a cochainnan. 
New Mexico 
Assistant Dean John Brodcrick of the ND Law School was guest speaker at the Universal Notre Dame Night for the New Mexico Club on .April 29 at Albuquerque. 
Officers who were elected for two-year tenns in the summer of '64 are: President. W'lLLIAM B. BENEDICK '54: Vice-President, JOSEPH H. STUEVER '54; Secretary, DAVID H. KELSEY '60; and Treasurer, JAMES W. O'NEILL '57 (all of Albuquerque, N. M.). 
Mr. O'Neill has recently moved to Houston, Tex., and his successor will be announced. —DAVID H. KELSEY. Secj-. 
New York 
The first Club affair of the winter xras the Annual Retreat at Shrub Oak. Once again GEORGE FRAZIER handled the details, and those who Were able to attend agreed that this four-day event (Feb. 4-5-6-7) was an outstanding spir­itual experience .. . a tribute to Rev. Vincent 
J. Han SJ, and the seminarians \%1io combined to make this a memorable affair. The Club plaved host to JOHXN*Y DEE and the ND basketball team at the Motor Inn following the ND-N'YU game on Feb. 24. BERXIE CONNOR handled the arrangements for the more than 200 ND alumni and friends who attended, and the only jour note of the entire evening A\-as the final score, although the game provided all that might be asked in excitement. 
Both Long Island and Westchester showed the 1964 Football Highlights in February. GEORGE WINKLER chaired the L.L group, and BOB FINK took charge at the Westchester C. C. Both of 
MUSKEGON—Jack Fitzpatrick (2nd from left), ND Club scholarship chairman, shou-n presenting a $500 award to Joe Dutmers, Muskegon Catholic Central High senior who will enter the University this fall. They are flanked by Joc^s proud parents, Mr. and Mrs. Don Dutmers. (Photo courtesy of the Musk^on Chronicle.) 
these well-attended affairs gave several hundred sions to be decided) for the ND-.Amiy game on ­alumni and their friends a lively evening in both Oct. 9. areas, and enabled us to see. firsthand, wliat has —WILLIAM F. .MURPHY, Retiring Scc>-. liappened at ND under the "Era of Ara" in addi­tion to sliaring a pleasant evening with our class-males and friends. Northern Califomia 
ED FITZGERALD, chairman, advised us that Our monthly luncheons in downtown San Fran­the Annual ND Club scholarship winner %^'as our cisco have had fair success. Wc average around guest at Universal ND Night on .April 24. 10 people and have gone as high as 20. 
The N'Y Club proudlv presents the new Officers The TV party, to u-atch the Michigan Siatc­for 1965-66; President, GORDON FORESTER; Notre Dame game, had a good turnout of around Secretary-, PAT KE.\NEALLY; and Treasurer, JIM 30 people considering the early morning hour. SPELLM.AN. The cocktail party wlien MOOSE KR.AUSE came 
ED FITZGERALD, our two-term president and out to speak on the new convocation and athletic hard-working member of more committees tlian I center, was a little disappointing on turnout. We can recall, was chosen "Man of the Year" and had around 50 people despite good adx'ancc publicity. presented with the award at UND Night on April It was an excellent function, however. Everybody 
24. JIM ARMSTRONG was the speaker on thai present was pleased about the film and Moose's and nighl, and co-chairmen GUS HARD.ART and GOR< JIM COONEY's presentations. All-American DON FORESTER gave us a fine evening by way GEORGE STROHMEVER appropriately won an of celebration. Future plans include a June Dance autographed football. on Long Island and in August a picnic. In addition, Preceding the evening cocktail party we had a and very definitely in our plans, a "Gala" (dimen-luncheon for officers, directors, monogram men, a 
few backbones of the club and newsmen. .About 25 in all, meeting for a ver>' nice lunch at Del Vecchio's Restaurant in San Francisco. Some of the monogram men present were BILL SHERMAN. KEVIN O'SHEA and PAUL LIMONT. Also pres­ent was ED MANSFIELD, an old classriiale of Moose's. 
Our trip to Los Angeles for the Notre Dame-
U.S.C. game had a fair response but mostly ; non-alumni. 
The next gathering, with the exception of the ' '' Ladies Auxiliary, was a party held at Hamm's ' Brewery in San Francisco, Feb. 3, IS65. This was a catered spaghetti dinner, free beer furnished by Hamm's Brewery and the feature of the evening was the showing of the 1964 Noire Dame Foot­ball Highliglits. 
Wc had a ver>' good turnout of over 60 people and cverybcxly had a very enjoj'able evening. ^ Hamm's have a very nice Sky Room with a \-iew that overlooks all of San Francisco. This w ^ fur­nished to us by J. RAYMOND FOX '32, who is vice-president and general manager of the San Frandsco Brewery. Ray was also very kind to give e\-eryonc present a six-pack of Hamm's new Wal­dcch beer to take home. 
MIAMI — New officers of the Notre Dame 
Among those present at this affair were TOM Club of Greater Miami pose after their CORCORA.\ '58, FELIX ISHERWOOD '60, TOM 
election. Front row, left to right, arc 
CAHILL '59, BILL FORD '43, BILL McGEE '57, *« GENE DeLAY '41, JOHN FORDE '50, LARRY 
Dr. Ronald Murray DDS^ treasurer; Atty. 
HEUSER '49, RAY FOX '32, NORB KRAFT '53, "^ George Hero, president; Atty. David A. LARRY FARMER '56, FRANK QUINN '57, Club ^ Russell, first vice-president; back row, Director JOE BOIVIN '55, DON BOIVIX '62, 
STEVE RO.AKE '61, BOB CONNELLY '49. Club 
left to right, Thomas J. Hils, secretary; 
Director and former President BILL McGOWAN and George Kcnnard, second vice-president. '41, GEORGE SEALY '48, ANDY PROVOST '50, * 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
Club Director JAY FARROX '48, JERRY SMITH '61, DUEY KERPER '60, TOM TRIXLER '47, MIKE GALLAGHER '58, PAT GOGGINS '58. JLM XEMECHEK '60, BILL KILLILEA '60, PAT BLACKFORD '49, CHUCK BOLDRICK '61, JACK KILIAN '54, Club Director BILL SHERMAN '49, Club Vice-President TOM KERNAN '55, and REV. 
J. B. CLARK CSC, who is doing postgraduate work at the U. of California. 
Our next get-together was Universal Notre Dame Night, April 20, 1965, with F.4THER O'DO.N"­NELL as a guest. 
—E. E. .MADIG.VN, Pres. 
North Florida 
Jacksonnllc alumni were host to DR. THOMAS BERGIX. XD dean of contiiniiiig cdtication, for Universal Xotrc Dame Xighl on May 6. 
Northern New Jersey 
AL PERRIXE '41 left us recently. He has no\%­become national campaign director for the Mental Health .Assn. Vm sure all N'otre Dame men in this ari-a join me in wishing AI Godspeed in his new work. His devoted scr\'ice to Xotrc Danic is well recognized from FR. HESBURGH on down to his fellow alumni . . . and, I may add, much of Xotrc Dame's recent success in fund-raising is attributable to the AI Perrines who gave so un­stinliiigly. 
Ever\* XD alumnus in this area has read with interest the fact that the Army game will be played in Shea Stadium early this fall. . . . Al's successor belter get a good supply of tickets because we will sure need them. Especially with PHIL SHERIDAX's fon leading tliem, we'll all be there in full force. JOE PROKOP '42 and VIC GUL­Y.ASSY '42, both of Cleveland, should make this trip if they know what's good for them. H.ARRY DURKIX, our wonderful prexy for the last two years, has decided to get married and. from all re­ports, she is a very beautiful girl from out Tucson, Ariz., way. 
Universal X'D Xight on April 26 was one of the best ever. FR. WALSH was the principal speaker. Xav>* Coach Bill Elias was also a guest at Bow and .\rrow Manor, West Orange, X. J. 
Jeneyites will be well represented by the follow­ing squad members who should contribute to suc­ce%s in '63 .. . Bob Papa. Tom Longo, Phil Sheridan and Jim Kelly. ART ARMEXTO '61 has the luckiest brother at XD . . . ED ARMEXTO '63. given a free trip to Bennuda as chaperon for other seniors during semester break. My, how times have changed! 
—AXGE A.MATO '42. Secy. 
Ohio Valley 
A dinner meeting was held at Frederico's Res­taurant in Sleubenville, O., on Jan. 6 on the occasion of the visit of XD assistant football coach TOM PAGXA and JOHX RAY '48 of the XD coaching staff. BILL CHESSOX '58 was in charge of arrangements. Attendance of about 30 persons included local XD alumni, prospective students, their parents and friends of XD. Movies of the highlights of XD's last season were shown, and Pagna spoke on the sports program at XD. 
Tom and John then came to Wheeling, 
W. Va., where on Jan. 8 they appeared on TV Station WTRF xvith BOB SIXCAVICH '50. presi­dent of the Ohio V3ne\- XD Club, and Jennings Martin, sports announcer for the station. 
That evening Pagna and Ray attended a dinner at the Downtowner ^folo^ Inn with local nlumni of XD. After the dinner a "Get-.\cquainted Xitc" was held. Tom Pagna spoke and showed movies of last season's football games. Guests included prospective students, local high school coaches and friends of the University. The following were among thoiie attending: 
XD alumni: TO.\I HOWLEY Ml, FRAXCIS WALL.ACE '23, JOHX XIEMIC '29, BILL MITSCH '33. RUSS RICKUS '34, GUS VARLAS '47, BOB SIXCWICH '50, JI.M DAILER '50. JIM HARAXZO '52, HARRY BUCH '52-'55. BILL BUCH '59 and AL ADORNETTO '54 of Zanes­ville, O. 
Coaches: Andy Urbanic and Jack Stanton, Cen­irol Catholic High, Wheeling. W. Va.; Dan Mc-Gre**- and Pal DeMarco, St. John's High, Belbire, O. 
Students: Brad Littlchales, Garrj- Sacco and Mike Smith, Central Catholic High; Frank Vlngia and Richard Boron, St. John's. 
Religious: Father Hilarion Cann. Wheeling, W. Va.; and Father Luciana, X'cw Matanioris, O. 
Guests: Paul Otte, Mark Rusclli, Reagan Hop­
kins, Joe Gompers, Alex Bartok, Joe Dawson, Bill 
Flynn. 
Recently deceased arc the wives of SYLVESTER 
J. DOUGHERTY BSME '29 and JOH.X LAUTER BSME '37. 
DR. P.AUL S. STOKLEY MS '44, PhD '47, died on X'ew Year's day as the result of an automobile accident in Cambridge, O. 
—BILL MITSCH '33. Secy.-Treas. 
Oklahoma City 
Quite a few functions have taken place since 
my last report to you. 
On Dec. 13, '64, the Communion Breakfast »'as held with R. ROBERT (BOB) DOLAX '55 as chairman. The members and their families at­tended ^fass at Christ the King Church, followed by a buffet breakfast held at Okla. City Golf and Countf)' Club. Our guest speaker was Rev. Joseph Labarge, asst. pastor of Christ the King. 
The Christmas dance was held at Twin Hills Golf & Counlr>' Club on Dec. 28, '&i. and was under the direction of DR. ALBERT DRESCHER '38. The dance was well attended by members, guests and students from the University. 
A stag party u-as held in JanU3r>- at the Oklahoma Citv Golf & Countr\- Club. This u-as well handled by Club President W. A. .X.-VSHERT JR. (JACK) '54. The highlight of the evening was the show­ing of the film 1964-65 football highlights of XD. 
The next major event sponsored by the Okla. City Club was UXD X'ight. A banquet was held at Quail Creek Golf & Countr\- Club on May 18, '65. The chairman was yours truly. The following members were chairmen of the following functions related with the dinner: Boy of the Year .Award, EUGEXE (GEXE) J. SCH.MIT '55; Man of the Year Au^rxl. W. A. .XASHERT JR. (JACK) '54; and all were assisted by D.AX KELEHER '58, who took care of all publicitv for tlic function. 
—JOHX A. HOBBS. Seo-. 
Orange County 
The Could've and Should've .Awards Dinner held at the Saddleback Inn at Santa .-\na. Calif., the first Sunday in January- honored Xotre Dame as the college team that "Could've and Should've Been Xumber One in the Xation." 
Father John Paul Cadden, President of the Uni­versity of San Diego, was chosen to re-present the Fighting Irish at the festive occasion. 
Others honored at the affair were the Univer­sity of Southern California as the team that "Should've Gone to the Rose Bowl" and Purdue as the Big Ten team that "Could've Gone to the Rose Bowl." 
Oregon 
Universal X'oire Dame Xight was celebrated at the Sheraton Motor Inn, Portland, on Friday, .April 30, with an infonnal cocktail hour and reception. Our thanks go to Co-Chairmcn PHELA.V THO.MP­SOX '55. Club vice-president, and GEORGE E. 

^LACK '61, Club treasurer, for an enjoyable eve­
ning. Frank Leahy Jr. showed a film of football 
highlights and Frank Sr., famous Irish coach, 
added some interesting technical interpretations. 
The club very much appreciates the contributions of 
the ladies who served as hostesses and helped with 
table arrangements—Mrs. BOB BERSCHXNSKI '57 
(Bob is back teaching at U. of Portbnd after taking 
doctoral work at U. of Oregon and U. of Chicago). 
Mrs. PHIL BERTHIAUME '28 and her charming 
daughter, Mrs. ROBERT F. DWYER JR. '53, 
Mrs, -.MORRISOX A. COXWAY JR. '53, Mrs. 
TOM HALEY '57, Mrs. TOM HUGHES '57, Mrs. 
HUGH V. LACEY JR. '45, Mrs. GEORGE E. 
.M.ACK III '61, .Mrs. JAMES CARR MOR,AX '56, 
Mrs. EDWARD X. "TED" MURPHY, .Mrs. RUS­
SEL R. XIEHAUS. Mrs. HEXRY P. PEAR, Mrs. 
CHARLES J. SLATT '33, Mrs. ARTHUR L. STEV­
EXS '49, Mrs. PHELAX THOMPSON* '55. Piirents 
of pre>sent students were special guests. 
X'ow in law practice with the firm of Wheclock, Richardson and Xiehaus (our own Russ) is ED­WARD J. MURPHY JR. '60, a Georgetown bw graduate. ROBERT F. MERZ CLU was named outstanding manager in the country for Manhattan Life Insurance Co., whose branch he heads in Oregon. Since his return to Portbnd Bob has been very active in Club and community affairs, Pres. PHIL MEAXEY '50 was in Florida for an insurance convention during April and turned o\'er UXTJ Xite preparations to his officers. RODGER F, TOTH ^LA. '62 is now on the counselling staff of Multnomah County Juvenile Home, Portbnd. It is good to have an XD man active in this important work. 
Ex-Pres. CHARLIE SLATT '33 was a recent visitor to Xew York to attend an engineering con­vention for Bonneville Power .Administration, where Charlie is chief of maintenance. ARTHUR .A. SCHULTE JR. '52 is a^istant professor at the 
U. of Portbnd. J. MICHAEL WHITE '52 U on the local staff of Price Waterhousc, national ac­counting finn. WILLIAM J. HOWE was recently named a vice-president of Commerce Investment Co.. one of the state's brgest property manage­ment firms, and manager of the Medford, Ore., office. Congratulations, Bill! 
With that mixture of sorrow and compassion that attends the passing of one who has suffered much, the Club mourns XORB KAVAXAUGH '26, who suffered many years from crippling arthritis and had lost his sight the last feu- years, but continued his law practice to near the end. Tributes to X'orb's Christlike resignation to his afflictions came from many of his friends at his Rosary. May his loul rest in peace. 
—TOM ^LAGEE '32, Sec>-, 

Peoria 
^LARTIX R. OCOXXOR '51 of Kewanee, III., was named N'otre Dame Man of the Year at the Peorb Club's Universal Xotrc Dame Xight banquet May 4 at Mt. Hawley Country Club, Peoria, 111. 
O'Connor, president of Sandy's Franchise, Inc. of Keu'anee. was honored for his many civic, reli-
ORANGE COUNTY—The University participated vicariously in Janiiary*s "Could've and ShouldVe Awards" Dinner at the Saddleback Inn, Santa Ana, Calif^ fcaturii^ 
(l.-r.): George Ray, representing: Southern California (**ShouId*vc Gone to the Rose Bowl"); Rev. John Paul Cadden, president of the U. of San Diego, for Notre Danie ("CouldVe and Should*ve Been Number One in the Nation"); M. C Paul Salata, former USC star; Red-Mackey of Purdue ("CouldVe Gone to the Rose BowP); and Saddleback owner-manager Bruce Gelkcr, a former Trojan star tackle. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1963 35 
gious, professional and business accomplishments. The Man of the Year was an all-around athlete in high school, winning letters in football, basketball, baseball and golf, and won three x'arsity Ictten in basketball at ND. After graduation Martx* enrolled in the XD Law School and served as assistant bas­ketball coach. .Although stricken with paralytic polio at tlib time, Mart>* got hb law degree in 1956 and began to practice law in Dallas, Tex. He returned to Illinois in 1963 to become counsel for the Sandy's chain and in January- of this year was elected president of the company. 
Principal speaker at the banquet was JOHNNY DEE '48, head basketball coach at the University. The annual ENNIO ARBOIT Memorial Trophy was presented to Peoria High School by the son of the former Spalding High coach, now a Notre Dame student. All-Amcrican J.\CK SNOW '65 was also a guest for the occasion. 
Philadelphia 
Tliis year approximately 100 people came to the 

Viennese and the Burgundy Rooms at the Bellex-ue 
Stratford Hotel to enjoy cocktails, dinner, dancing 
and entertainment. To those who attended %%'e 
extend our most sincere tlianks. FR. JOHN E. 
WALSH CSC journeyed from South Bend to be 
with us. 
The setting was outstanding, the dinner was 

delicious and there were plenty of refreshments 
during the cocktail hour and during dinner. The 
speeches and the formal part of the program were 
kept to a minimum; including Fr. Walsh's excellent 
talk, the program lasted less tlian 25 minutes, and 
there %%-as no head table. There i*-as a 50-minute 
floor shou', which everyone seemed to enjoy. Every­
one (and particularly the ladies) had a most en-
jo>-abIe evening if wc can believe llie many favor­
able comments which were adx-anced. 
Retiring President JIM LEYDON '49 of Wj-nne­

wood, Pa., was named ND Man of the Year after 
two years of outstanding service to the Club. 
• Tlic number of dues-pa>*ing members is increas­ing nicely, but still leaves a lot to be desired. If you have not paid your 1965 dues, please send us your check for $5, made payable to "Notre Dame Club of Phila." 
On October 9, 1965, Notre Dame will play .Army at Shea Stadium in New York. Although we do not know how many tickets, if any, we shall receive (it is Army's home game, and Notre Dame will be allotted only 20,000 tickets, all told), wc hope to be able to run a train trip to New York. JACK HENRY, our chairman, is already working hard to firm up the plans. 
On Saturday, August 21, at the Rutgers Univer­sity Stadium in New Brunswick, N.J., the New York Jets and the Buffalo Bills will play an exhibi­tion game for the benefit of the Intercollegiate Football Hall of Fame Building Fund. Club mem­bere were given an opportunity- for advance sale tickets for this debut of JOHN HUARTE and Joe Namath against veterans D.ARYLE LAMONICA and ED RUTKOWSKI. 
—WILLIAM A. WHITESIDE JR., Pres. 

Phoenix 
REV. ALBERT HEIN^ER from FATHER PEY­TON'S Family Theater spoke to our alumni on Universal Notre Dame Night in Phoenix. His talk was both broadening and inspiring. I'm sure he left the impression that Notre Dame extends be^tmd South Bend. I am also extremely pleased to have been named Notre Dame Man of the Year. 
We did ha\*e a delightful surprise for our evening. FATHER McDOWELL was here \Tsiting his brother and took the time to drop in. We had the benefit of a short but informative talk about this year's theme. 
—JOHN P. McSIUNE, Pres. 

Pittsburgh 
Recently we held a stag dinner at the Park Schenle>- Restaurant for the primarj* purpose of planning the coming e\'ent5 for the remainder of the year. JOE GASPARELLA obtained the high­lights of the Notre Dame 1964^5 football season. It was a real pleasure to relive on film all of the exciting moments of that season. In slow motion the wizardry displa>-ed by last year's team was even more fantastic 
After dinner remarks were made by our presi­dent, PAUL HUDAK, who is making a real effort to step up the tempo of Club activities. BERNIE POWERS has undertaken to institute a program for more actinty and participation by Club mem­bers in Club events. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held at the 

PEORIA—A presentation and an address were highlights of Universal ND Night at Mt. Hawley Country Club in April, featuring (from left): AU-American Jack Snow, standing beside the Ennio Arboit Memorial trophy; Bob Arboit, son of the late coach; John Dec, ND basketball coach and guest speaker; Pete Vonachen, chairman; and Bill Robertson, coach of the Central High city football champs, who received the trophy from young Arboit, a senior at the University. 
Duqucsne Club in dou-nlown Pittsburgh on April 20, 1965. MIKE McFADDEN was chairman of the Committee handling the arrangements and worked u-ith EDWARD J. HANLEY. Wc are extremely pleased and honored that FATHER HESBURGH was our honored guest tliat evening. Hon. HUGH 
C. BOYLE, president judge of the Orphans* Court of Allegheny County, was our toastmaster for the evening. It was an exceptional Universal Notre Dame Night. 
The annual Communion Breakfast was scheduled 

for May, and the arrangements were pbced In the 
hands of JERRY HOG.\N, the cliainnan of the 
committee. 
Our annual Golf Outing will be held sometime 

during the last week in August. The cliairman of 
the committee to make the arrangements for this 
e\*ent is CLET GILSON, who is attempting to make 
the arrangements at the Scwickley Heights Country 
Club. This should be a real golfing experience 
for all. 
Looking ahead to the fall and %vinter season, JOE 

G.-\SPARELLA, BERNIE POWERS, and ED FEY 
have undertaken to make the arrangements for the 
Pitt-Notre Dame Game Rally at tlie Hilton Hotel. 
FFTZ WILSON, MIKE HORN and CLET GIL­SON were constituted as the Committee to make arrangements for the Winter Dance. 
JOE TOTTEN and his Committee will make the arrangements for the Retreat, whicli is alwaj-s a Januar\' event. 
—MICHAEL J. BOYLE, Sec>-. 

Rhode Island & S.E. Mass. 
Providence area alumni greeted DR. WILLIAlkl >L BURKE, dean of freshmen at Notre Dame, as speaker for Universal Notre Dame Night on April 28. 
Rochester 
Rochester Club members experienced a most en­joj'able and successful Christmas Dinner Dance by celebrating the season at Oak Hill Country Club on December 26, 1964^. The highlight of the eve­ning was a sumptuous French BtifFct prepared by the country dub's noted kitchen. Speaking for the Men's Organization, I thank our ladies* group under President Gail Reeves for the outstanding sponsor­ship of this memorable event. 
The Club's Scholarship Fund is gaining momen­tum uith the appointment of a selection committee under chairman REG MORRISON. Other mem­bers charged with selecting a candidate are JOHN BURKE, BILL CTOOLE, BILL BELL SR., JOHN CASEY, PHIL YAWMAN and TO.M KEEGAN. 
More recently a Scholaiship Fund Drive was an­nounced by Club President REG MORRISON. Utilizing a format proposed by JIM GLEASON, JOHN HEAGNEY was appointed chairman of a follo\v'-up committee to help expedite the fund­raising. 
ARA PARSEGHIAN was in town to speak at the Salesmen's Club Annual "Sports Night" held 

on March 1, 1965. Although it was not a Rochester 
Club event, some members did attend an cnjo>'ab]e 
evening hearing about "Ara's Era." 
At an April 5 business meeting a new slate of 
Club ofliccre was elected. With VIN DOLLARD 
as president, BILL 0*TOOLE as vice-president, 
JOHN GLAVIN as secretary- and ROY HANNA 
continuing as treasurer, the Club can expect an­
other prosperous and successful year. 
Plans for Universal Notre Dame Night were 
formulated by co-cliairmcn ED CARSON and BOB 
DEWEY. Wc wcTc most pleased to liave F.-\THER 
JOYCE as our guest for wltat proved to be a most 
enjoj-able affair. 
—E. W. YURGEALITIS, Retiring Sec>-. 

Rock River Valley 
On Wednesday, April 28, 1965, the Rock River 
Vallo" Alumni Club celebrated the Fort>--Second 
.Annual Universal Notre Dame Night. Our speaker 
w ^ JOHN JANOWSKI, editor of NOTRE DAME 
magazine. 
The meeting u-as held at "Eddies" on Route 2 
between Dixon and Grand Detour. Naturally ladies 
and non-alumni were vcr>* cordially invited. 
A picnic was announced for btcr this summer. and the Club will travel to the ND-Northwestcm game on Oct. 20. 
—PAUL BERRETTINI, Pres. 

Rome, Italy 
NOTRE DAME HOSPrrALFTY CEN'TER IS OPEN EVERY DAY ALL DAY. ADDRESS: LARGO BRANCACCIO 82. TELEPHONE: 
730.002. EVERYONE IS WELCOME. 
Memorial Masses were offered in Rome for ND's benefactor, ^f^s. Dorothy H. Hammes, and for sophomore JEROME WFFZEL of the Innsbruck Program. 
A Rome First: The fifty ND sophomores study­ing at the U. of Innsbruck, Austria (the program's first >-ear), descended on us, half for Christmas \'acation and half for Easter. Heading the list was their dean, FR. TOM ENGLETON CSC. We were happy to house and feed them economically in nearby digs while they made the ND Center their Hq. We must report that we are genuinely impressed by the seriousness with which they "did" ancient, monumental Rome; personalit>*wise, a very fine select group. 
Roman Losses: FR. VINCE GEISE MA '50 is being ordained in Rome and will depart for the US vineyard. JIM DOUGLASS MA '62 with wife and sons left for a teaching post at Belhrminc College, Louis\ille. 
Door Count: For every ND-SMC guest, wc are -T: hosting four or five students or alumni of 101 other colleges and' universities, not to exclude scads of "subway" alumni, referred to in Rome as "Cata­comb" alumni. The ND-SMCei^ were: ED FAY 
36 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
'49; JOHN McMEEL '57, son of llie famed ND team phj-siclan, with friend JIM ANDREWS '57; GERALD FITZGIBBON '10, JIM KAPACINSKAS '63 and »-ife; JIM CONNAUGHTON, member of the Ad%Tsor>' Council for Arts and Letters, and wife; GARY GATES '57; PR. CHARLES BERGE­DICK SM summer '62-'64; JIM VOGEL '51; TOM SHEHAN '57; FR. RICHARD SULLIVAN CSC '34, provincial for New England; JEROME PRASSAS and JOHN WEiTHERS '55; BILL SYRING '42 and wife; BOB SIMMONS '35 and wife; MARK MITCHELL '39 with wife and daughter. 
Daughter of JI.M MARTIN '23, sister of JI.M 
'49, JOHN '59; in-law of FR;\NK .McMANUS 

'54; sister of Prof. EDWARD FISCHER, com­
munication arts; uncle of BOB MOONEY "52; 
nephew of FRiVNK McGINNIS circa '30. 
At Lo>'oIa U. of Chicago Rome campus, BOB 

DOWNS '66, son of FRANK '31. Also, from St. 
Mar>-'s, Georgia Santangelo and Judi Arado '66. 
—VINCE .Mc;\LOON '34, Secj-. 

Sacramento 
REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL CSC was a guest from the campus at a Notre Dame dinner in California's capital on April 22. 
Saginaw Valley 
The Saginaiv Valley Notre Dame Club held tlieir 

Family Communion Breakfast March 28 at St. 
Boniface Catholic Church, Bay City, Mich. THOM­
AS J. C.-\RROLL, Bay City, was chairman of this 
event, and a fine turnout of 70 members and their 
families enjoyed the breakfast as well as the in­
spirational talk given by FATHER WALSH of St. 
Boniface Church. Club Vice-President JOSEPH D, 
KAVANAGH announced plans for Universal ND 
Nig'it-
Xotre Dainc Night u'as scheduled for Midland, Mich., on May 8. JAMES HOWELL of Midland was chairman. Other events on the agenda arc the Notre Dame Golf Outing June 26 at White Birch Hills Golf Course, Auburn (JOE K.AVA­NAGH, chairman), and Universal ND Communion Sunday, Dec 5, in Saginaw (BILL HENDRICK, chairman). 
—GENE CASE JR. '56, Sccj-.-Trcas. 

St. Joseph Valley 
There Avas lime for a look at the past and a glimpse of the future March 28 at the 34th annual Rockne memorial breakfast at Notre Dame. The St. Joe Valley Club paid its annual tribute' to the memory of KNUTE ROCKNE, held on the closest Sunday to the date of his death on March 31, 1931. JACK CANNON '30, one of Rock's great players, now a florist in Columbus, O., and recently elected to footbatl's Hall of Fame, wss introduced by toastmaster JIM ARMSTRONG '25 for the tradi­tional wann round of Rockne reminiscences, anec­dotes and impressions. The future was handled by Coach ARt\ PARSEGHIAN in a pre-spring-practice prognostication for '65, predicting radical changes in ofFense with the loss of AlI-.American attackers JOHN HUARTE, JACK SNOW, NORM NICOLA, etc. Before the breakfast at the North Dining Hall, Valley Clubbers and their sons offered Mass and Communion at Kcenan-Stanford Chapel, and bter they viewed wrcath-Iajing ceremonies by Can­non and JACK ROCKNE '50 at the immortal coach's grave in Highland Cemeterj-. JIM GIB­BONS '53 was chairman and produced a remark­able announcement program highlighting Rock as a model for youth and including Chairman JOE DILLON'S nominations for 1965-66 directors elected at the meeting. 
The. Spring Game, traditionally sponsored by the Club at the close of spring practice, brought near-record crowds for the benefit of the academic Scholarship Fund and, as nationally televised on NBC-TV a week later, proved by the Varsity's 72-0 drubbing of the *'OId Timers" some of Ara's OTStal-gazing about a rocking defense, a strong running game and doubtful depth. 
JOE DOYLE *49, sports editor of tlie South Bend Tribune, was honored .April 22 as Notre Dame Man of the Year by the ND Club of the St. Joseph Valley. The occasion ^^-os Universal Notre Dame Night at the Morris Inn. Retiring President DICK CLEARY outlined some of Doyle's accomplishments as president of the Council for Retarded of St. Joseph County, as a director of YMCA ph>-sical programs and as a veteran of W^V II service with the Air Force and a major in the Air Force Reser\c. Past President JOSEPH DILLON presented the plaque before more than 100 members, wives and guests. 
The principal speaker of the evening, DR. 

PHILADELPHIA—Rev. John E. Walsh CSC, guest speaker for Universal Notre Dame Night and a University vice-president, beams (center) as retiring Club President and MIS. James P. Leydon (left) show the Man-of-the-Ycar pbque awarded for Jim's service of the past two years, while Mr. and Mrs. William A, Whiteside Jr. regard the beribboned gavel symbolizing Bill's succession to the presidency. 
THOMAS BERGIN '45, dean of continuing edu­cation, dbcussed the University's plans for the new Kellogg Continuing Education Center building under construction opposite the Inn. 
New Club officers installed at the dinner in­cluded: EDWARD GR-\Y, president; RICHARD ROSENTHAL, \-ice-prcsidcnt; HUBERT KUZ­MICH, treasurer; and ROBERT MICHAUD, sccrclar\'. 
Scheduled for June w^as the annual Stag Golf Outing at ND's Burke Memorial Course. 
St. Louis 
As this last article is prepared for press follouing our gala St. Patrick's Night Dance, our year for the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis draws to a close. The only remaining business were elections and Universal Notre Dame Night, which was planned for May 19 with FR. JOHN WALSH CSC as a guest at the Colony Motor Hotel. DR. WILLIAM GILLESPIE was selected as ND ilan of the Year. 
An interesting but rather startling bit of infor­mation came to my attention recently. My brother, JOSEPH B. McGLYNN JR. '55 and I are in the same reunion cycle (m>*5elf '60). Many others from the local area were anticipating the reunion trip over the weekend June 11-13. 

It is appropriate to again thank and thereby recognize those who have made this year a success for the St. Louis Club. Our Man of the Year for the past year has been DR. D.-\NIEL SEXTON '15. The members of our Board of Directors have been as follow: CORNELIUS T. LANE JR. '57, president; JOHN J. PHELAN '56, vice-president (university relations); ROBERT A. McAULIFFE '55; FRANCIS F. XfcC:ARTHY '46; HERMAN L. KRIEGSHAUSER '54, board chairman; D. JERRY McGLYNN '60, secretary-treasurer; ANTHONY M. RIBAUDO '59; AL VTIT '56; J--\MES COMBS '46; JOHN N. CROWLEY '57, vice-president (ac­tivities); HANK LUEPKE '57; BILL OTTEN '62; JOE ALBERS '50; JOE DWYER '58; GENE FEH­LIG '43, Wce-presidcnt (publiciiy); TAL POW­ELL '49. 
Best wishes to all for a pleasant summer. 
—D. JERRY McGLYNN '60. Secy.-Treas. 

St. Petersburg-Tampa 
EDWARD "MOOSE" KRAUSE was a busy man on his visit in February to the Tampa Bay area, with a. civic welcome from the Chamber of Com­merce and a press conferen(% in addition to the Club's dinner in his honor and that of Challenge 
II. Arranging the affair was General Chairman GEORGE GUIDA JR. Florida West Coast alomni 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Northwest Dlinois alumni officers greeted a campus gnest for Universal Notre Dame Night in Dixon: (l.-r.) Vice-President Ttmi Kavadas, Sterling; Club President Paul Berrettini, Dixon; Foundation Chairman Joe Bit­torf. Sterling; NOTRE DAME magazine editor Jack Janowski, guest speaker; Pat Jones, Sterling, secretary; and Ray DeCourcey, Rochellc, treasurer. The UND Night meeting was held in late April. (Dixon Evening Tel^raph pbotow) 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 37 
were also represented at the Tlurd International Convention in Nassau at the end of April. 
Salina 
Here are the results of a qucsttonnairc put out recently. I checked on ever>* ND man I could locate in the Ccnttal Kansas area, and these n^­plied: D.WID L. BROWNE II '34. .Norton; JOHN 
C. BROWNE '50. Clay Center: ED BUDDY '41, Dodge City; JOHN E. CARLIN SR '28. Mentor; JOHN E. CARLIN JR. '58. Mentor; FRANK A. &\RROLL '37, Manhattan; TOM CARROLL '51. Hutchinson; JOSEPH E. COLE '38, Manhattan; J.AMES D. CONW.AY '50. McPhcrson; JAMES E. FOLEY '40, Salina; PETE FR.ANCKEN '49, Sa­lina; DR. FRED A. CANS "43. Salina; ANDREW 
S. H.ARTNETr II '63, Salina; LAWRENCE W. IRSIK '58, Ingalls; TOM KEX.VEDY '51; Salina; ROBERT A. McAULIFFE '36. Salina; ALBERT 
J. McLEAN '31, Salina; CLEO MELCHER "43, Salina; DR. (CAPT.) WILLIAM MOORE '58, Sa­lina .AFB; DR. RICH.\RD MOSIER '50, Herington; DR. R. ROY NIXON '53, Concordia; J.AMES REID '50, Hutchinson; CLARE SHRIWISE '49, Jetmore; WAYNE SHRIWISE '43, Jctmore; AL­BERT J. SCHW.ARTZ '37. Salina; NORBERT F. SKELLEY '25, Salina; D.-^N SULLIV.AN '37, LHv-sses; and LEO SWI.\T '39, .Abilene. 
—A. J. SCHWARTZ, Secy. 

San Antonio 
On March 27 the University of Notre Oainc Con­cert Band, under the direction of ROBERT O'BRIEN, visited San Antonio. TIic approximately I.OOO people attending the concert were impressed with the skill of the student musicians and their professional attitude. 
A social and dance were provided by the San Antonio Club. Thej- Were both held at Incarnate Word College after the program, enabling members of the band to meet their sponsors and ladies at­tending the college. Joe Howard and his flnc ag­gregation provided the dance music, and his special rendition of the Victorj* March was most enter­taining. A special note of thanks is owed to Sister Dolores Marie and all tlic nuns at Incarnate Word for making the visit of the students such a success. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated April 28 in the Renaissance Room of the Menger Hotel. Our main speaker, Vcr>- Rev. CHRISTOPHER OTOOLE '29, past superior general of the CSC's, gave an inspiring address on the theme of the evening, the incredible progress made in the first 100 j-cars of science at Notre Dame. Discussed were the numerous contributions made by the school and its function in leadership not only in the United States, but throughout the world. The dedication and skill required to make the College of Science what it is today were impressed again on cver>'onc by the close of the evening. Skillfully brought out was the purpose of a Catholic university tn general, its nature, identity, and destiny. Fr. O'TooIc ex­plained how a Catholic university is unique in its mission and warned of the pitfalls that could dis­tract it from its ultimate goal of instilling in its members not only the high level of knowledge re­quired today, but the means and desire to use this 
education to further and enrich the society we 
live in. 
Our appreciation is extended to Fr. OTooIe, FR. 
JOE RICK *24, and FR. ZINK '47, for coming 
in from .Austin to make our evening such a success. 
New officials were also installed to direct the 

• future of the San Antonio Club at Universal Notre Dame Night. Directing the local Club for the next tuo years as officere will be CHILTON MAVERICK '61, president; MIKE BAH.AN 'M. vice-president; and PETE PETERSON '58, secretary- and treasurer. 
A special testimonial plaque u-as autirded BILL L.\MM '53, who was concluding his active term as president for the previous two years. His untiring efforts and masterful direction of the Club were acknowledged by all. The Club is grateful for e\'er>'thing he and Ins wife Diane have done so well. 
—CHILTON M.AVERICK. Pres. 
San Diego 
The Notre Dame Club of San Diego was for­
tunate in hanng two dtstingutslu-d members of the 
Notre Dame family as guests and speakers for UND 

Night on April 24 at the Kona Kai Club. FR. 
THO^L^S J. O'DONNELL CSC u-as the official 
representative of the Univereity. MORTON R. 

GOODMAN, prominent Los Angcic; attorney and 
vice-president of the National .•\lumni .-\ssn., spoke' 
on "How the National Association Can Help Alum­
ni'' and also gave £omc interesting sidelights on 
the '"Goldfarb" case. 
Feature of the evening was presentation of the 

".Man of the Year" award to REGIS PHILBI.V 
'53. prominent iclension personality, who is cur­
rently hosting a I'/j-hour live variety show weekly 
on Channel 8, San Diego. 
The following new officers Were installed at the 

close of the meeting: President, MARVIN W. 
RICKLING '52; Vice-President, CARL F. PETERS 
'55; Membership Secretary-, DR. ROBERT J. J.-\S­
TR.-\B '56; Corresponding Secretary-, DONALD G. 
YECKEL '55; Treasurer, CH.ARLES F. VANDER­
GRIFT '56; Chaplain, MSGR. FRANCIS C. OTT 
'13; Directors, L. DON LOPKER '33 (2 >-cant) 
and CHRIS J. COH.AN '54 (1 year). 
Chairman of the event was L. DON LOPKER 

'35, outgoing Club president. 
On June 4 the Club held an informal get-

together to start the new club year. Beer and 
snacks ^vere served, the 1964 San Diego Charger 
Football Highlights movie was shown, and good 
fellowship prei*ailed. 
New arrivals to the Sati Diego area are encour­

aged to contact ^fARV RICKLING at 277-7545. 
—DON YECKEL, Stcy, 

Santa Clara Valley 
On May 21 in San Jose, Calif., the new Santa Clara Valley Club came into being. We were fonncrly a chapter of the Northern California Club, but uitli growth and freeway traffic separating us more every day a new club is the only solution to our problems. There will still be very close cooperation with Bay Area Club beginning uith a big rally on the eve of the ND-Cal game in September at the Sheraton Pabce Hotel in San Francisco. 
Those attending the San Jose meeting wtre: 

FR. BOB SWEENEY 30 and FR. DAVID FOS­
SELMAN '39 of the new CSC House in Warm 
Springs near San Jose. .Also W. F. GALLO '52. 
DON THOMPSON '56, WALT GILL '56, DICK 
EW.ALD '56, JOE SPIEGEL '56, TOM CLAUSEN 
'56, JOE SHILTS '55, MIKE BURKE '63, BERT 
.MILLER '57, JACK O'KEEFE '30, ART SWAI.V 
'48, RAY HU.MECHE '49, JLM COYLE -50, JIM 
NEW.MAN '26, BILL SHINE '49, D.A.V B.ACHINI 
'64, BILL FORD '43, BILL KERWIN '53. BOB 
FIRGEL '49, ED CLEARY '43, WILLIAM HAR­
BAUGH, GENE MEUNIER and NOR.M MAT­
TIONL 
With over 200 alumni in the area, we expected 

a big turnout for the election meeting in June. 
—D.AVE HICKEY '27, Sec>-. 

Scranton 
National .Alumni Secrctarj- JIM ARMSTRONG visited Scranton alumni for the Club's UND Night ceremonies on April 29. 
South Central Wisconsin 
JOHN H. JANOWSKI, editor of XOTKE DAME magazine, u-as guest speaker for a Universal Notre Dame Night dinner at the Simon House Restaurant in ^^adiso^ on April 27. 
Spokane 
Tllc Club's cnjojable annual Holiday Party uas given once again at the hospitable home of Club President DICK ST. JOHN '56 on the evening of Dec. 30. Dick and his lovely wife Pat, assisted by the gracious wives of other Club members, pro­vided delectable eatables to go along with the good cheer of the following members and their friends: ED BETHKE '28. PETE HIROU '62, GARY .MYERS '59, R.AY PENLAND '56, DR. JIM ROTCHFORD '48, and JOE WALSH '14. 
PAUL HORNUNG '57 was in town on Feb. 3 as one of the principal speakers at the Spokane Sports Writers and Broadcasters Athletic .Awards dinner. DR. JIM ROTCHFORD '48 promoted an enjoy­able get-together of about 30 members and their friends with Paul preceding the banquet. 
On Feb. 9 Club members, their wives and friends enjoyed a fine Pot-Luck Supper followed by a showing of the 1964 Football Highlights film. The affair took pbcc in the auditorium of Inland Power S Light Co., of which VINCE SLATT '43 is genetal manager. The excellent facilities provided through the courtesy of Vince, and the culinary skill of the members' wives, made the supper a most enjoyable prelude to a thrilling film. BERNIE SMYTH '55 and his wife Barbara were in charge of arrangements. The following members attended: ED BETHKE '28, DR. BOB JOHNSON '41, BOB JO.VES '62, DR. BOB .MAHER '35, DR. DEE .McGONIGLE '52. J.ACK .MICHAUD '48, GARY NtYERS '59, JOHN O'NEILL '29, RAY PENL.AND '56, BEN PENA '64, DR. JIM ROTCHFORD '48, DICK ST. JOH.N '36. VINCE SLATT '43, BER­NIE SMYTH '55, and JOE W.ALSH '14. 
ROME — Gerald Fitzgibbon '10 of Chicago (left photo, at desk) tries running the ND hospitality center for a few minutes. He B getting some aid from Jim and Sue Connaughton of South Bend and Rev. Bernard Ransing CSC of Rome. Right: Mrs. William Ragen 
(Mary Carey, St Mary's '45), wife of Bill '43, sits at the head of the table as she takes 21 ND Inosbruck students out to dine in Rome. Her son Bill Jr. '67 is seated among the sophomores, who turned gallant and treated Mrs. Ragen to diimcr. 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1963 
The University Glee Club gave an enthusiastically 

received concert lo a large audience at Spokane's 
Coliseum on the evening of March 28. The affair 
u-as sponsored by Gonzaga Prep Boosters, with our 
Club's DR. JIM ROTCHFORD *48, president of 
the Boosters, spearheading the arrangements. After 
the concert an infonnal reception, with refresh­
ments, u-as tendered the Glee Club, with our Club's 
members and wives present and assisting. 
The Club postponed its obser\'ancc of Universal 

ND Night to May 22 in order to have the rare 
privilege of hosting FATHER HESBURGH as 
guest speaker. Father came lo Spokane to address 
the graduating class of Gonzaga U. on May 23 and 
graciously accepted our invitation to attend our 
banquet the night before. This item is necessarily 
written in advance of the biggest event in the his­
tory- of the Club, so look for a complete account 
in the next issue of the ALUMNUS. 
—JOSEPH WALSH, Sec>-. 

Syracuse (See Central N.Y.) 
Terre Haute 
On Jan. 16 the Notre Danic Clnb of Terre 

Haute held a dinner party at Louise's Restaurant 
here in Tcrre Haute. We had a fine family-style 
Italian dinner. And after dinner we all enjoyed 
the hour-long 19&( Football Highlights film. The 
attendance was tremendous; we had a sellout crov%'d. 
Special guests of the Club were Schulte Catholic 
High Football Coach Lou Mihajlovich and 
Mike Harris, Schulte player and a member of the 
Catholic High-School Ail-American team. Cochair­
men for the event were JIM MRUS and JIM 
BOVER. 
The Club also presented the annual basketball 

trophy to the CYO Terre Haute district champion. 
This year the winner came from Brazil, Ind. 
Our new ofhceis for the vear beginning April 26 

are as follows: President, illCHAEL H. KEARNS 
'60; Vice-President, ROBERT M. KINTZ '53; sec­
rclarv, JAMES D. MRUS '59; Treasurer, CHARLES 
W. METZGER '48; and Chaplain, REV. EDWARD WETZEL. 
TIic Notre Dame Club of Tcrre Haute celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on Monday, .April 26. Festivities started with a cocktail party at 6 p.m., followed by dinner at 6:45. Cochainncn for the event were the fathcr-and-son team of RAY and MIKE KEARNS. Ray (charter president in 1955) uus master of ceremonies . . . and later in the evening Mike u-as installed as the new president, replacing JIM BOYER. Speaker for the evening was J.\MES V. GIBBONS, assistant director of public rcbtions for the Univenity. 
FRED G. CHRISTMAN JR., Class of '43, re­ceived the Notre Dame Man of the Year au-ard. The attendance u-as tremendous and enthusiastic. To add to UND Night significance Terre Haute Club also celebrated its 10th anniversary with a sjiecial anniversary booklet covering the highlights of the Club for the past 10 years. This illustrated booklet u-as prepared by Fred Chrlstman and Jim Boyer and contained all the milestones of ten busy years, including events, speakers, officers and award winners (except for the surprise au-ard to one of its editors). 
—JI.M BOYER, Retiring Pres. 

Toledo 
On Feb. 7, 1965, 400 alumni and friends gath­ered at a stag smoker to hear JOHN HUARTE and JACK SNOW present the filmed highlights of the 1964 football season. The program, developed by Codiairmen TOM WELLY and URB GRADEL. u-as received enthusiastically. Messrs. Huarte and Snow presented ver>* interesting accounts of the season, but it must be admitted they had ver>' good material to work with. 
The Notre Dame Club of Toledo had planned to observ-c Universal Notre Dame Night with a twilight dinner-dance at the Hillcrest Hotel, but Cochairmen TO.M QUINN and BOB O'NEIL were forced to postpone until more dancers were a\-ailable. 
At the cancelled dinner dance the Club had planned to honor Notre Dame ^fan of the Year DR. JOHN C. KELLEHER of Toledo. Dr. Kel­lehcr is an eminent plastic surgeon, father of nine, and is active in surgical societies as well as Church and Notre Dame affairs. He has just been elected to the board of directors of the ND Club of Toledo and last fall u-as named by Sports IllmtraUd to its Silver Jubilee .All-Amcrican Football Team. Dr. Kelleher won his monogram as a place kicker on the 1939 Irish squad. 
Congratulations are in order for JOHN CE­LUSTA, also elected to the Club's board of directors. 
Formation of an ND couples bowling league for next fall u-as another spring endeavor of the 1964-65 season. Outgoing President BILL THEIS and the many who helped make thb year such a success are to be congratulated on their efforts. 
—JOHN G. HARROX. Secy. 
Triple Cities 
The Unix'crsirv' of Notre Dame .-Mumni Club of 

the Triple Cities held its annual Communion 
Breakfast on Sunday, Dec. 27, 1964. The affair 

u-as once again held between Chrbtmas and Nc\%' 
Year's so that the \-acationing students could be 
present. Mass u-as celebrated bv our Chib chap­
lain. Right Rev. .Msgr. FRANCIS J. HARRISON 
'33. at 8:15 a.m. at St. Patrick's Church. Bing­
hamton, N-Y. .Approximately 45 students and alumni 
then attended breakfast at Schrafft's Restaurant. 
Mr. Ronald Wyckoff, a social worker of Catholic 

Charities of Broome County u-as the principal 
speaker. Mr. Wyckoff, a fonner Episcopalian cler­
gyman and a convert to Catholicism, gave a most 
inspirational talk of the meaning of being a Catholic. 
.A business meeting was held on March 16, at 

which time we welcomed new arrival; to the com­
munity—WILLIANf LEO-VARD '55 and PAUL 
STADLER '63. Plans for the obserx-ance of Uni­
versal Notre Dame Night under the chainnanship 
of FR^VNK LINEHAN '45 were discussed. JACK 
O'ROURKE '49 will again work oat details for 
the selection of the outstanding high school seniors 
in Christian Citizenship Education of our two local 
Catholic High Schools who uill be the recipients 
of the Pope John XXIII AuXird. FRANK NORTON 
''32 u-as appointed chairman of a committee to ex­
plore the feasibility of monthly meetings and DICK 
H.ANIFIN '49 u-as named chairman of a committee 
for delcniiining u-ays of increasing Club income. A 
nominating committee of JOE G.ALLOWAY '51, 
GEORGE HAINES '42. TOM BENEDICT '49 and 
JACK O'ROURKE '49 was selected to recommend 
new officers for inauguration on Universal Notre 
Danie Night. 
The night u-as April 29, the place Lamontca's Restaurant in Binghaniton, and the special guest JI.M ARMSTRONG '25, executive secretary- of the national .Alumni .Assn. 
—JOH.V J. O'ROURKE '49, Sec>-. 

Tucson 
New officers of the Tucson Alumni Club, elected .April 26 at an informal members-only dinner hon­oring Universal Notre Dame Night are: BUDDY GOLDMAN BA '36, president; THO.M.AS A. ZL.A­KET BA '62. vice-president; JOHN E. LINDBERG 
LL.B. '51, secretarv-; and J. F, O'BRIEN CE '13, treasurer. James O'Brien's Notre Dame Club activi­ties include two years as president of the Detroit Club and a vice-presidcnc\* on the national Notre Dame Alumni Assn. level in 1927-28. Lindberg is assistant US attorney with headquarters in Tucson. Zlaket u-as recently honored for achieving excel­lence in the law of real estate in the recent gradu­ating class of the University of Arizona where he will receive his LLB next month (June, 1965). The a«-ard u-as given by the Lau->*ers Title Insur­ance Corp., through its statewide affiliate, the Arizona Land Title & Trust Co. 
President Goldman wishes to correct an error which appeared in Class Secretary LARRY P.AL-KOVIC's fine report of the Class of '36 in the last issue of the ALUM.NUS. Buddy's wonderful friend­ship with JOHN MORAN did not begin when both families resided in Dallas but goes back to the campus and the year 1932 when they both started pla>*ing handball together. Ever since it has been sort of an ND version of **Abic's Irish Rose." 
Tlie new Tucson Alumni officers and outgoing officers will shortly meet to plot and plan for the forthcoming year. 
Pres. BUDDY GOLDMAN, in association with P.AT WAGNER AB '51, is engaged in the ad­vertising agenc>' business. Their fimi is Pioneer .Advertising & Public Relations Inc., with offices in the Santa Rita Hotel. Tucson. Tliey also have an office in Mexico City and are affiliated with a number of key ad agencies throughout the Southwest. 
Tulsa 
A St. Patrick's Day dance replaced the traditional Universal Notre Dame Night ceremonies in Tulsa. 
Utah 
We arc pleased to advise that the Notre Dame .Alumni Club of Utah held a banquet on March 16, 1965, at the Hotel Newhousc in Salt Lake City and hosted Athletic Director ED (MOOSE) KRAUSE and JAMES D. COONEY of the Uni­
versity Foundation offices. Some 40 alumni and 
friends participated in a cf>cktail hour and dinner 
followed by words of advice by Messrs. Krause 
and Coone>*. 
Krause met with friends at a Monday afternfmn 

luncheon at the Ramada Inn. Salt Lake City, 
sponsored by PHIL PURCELL, Utah Foundation 
cliairman. The evening meeting u-as presided over 
by Utah .Alumni President DON RONEY. Arrange­
ments for the affair were made by Mr, Roney 
and the undersigned. 
—LEON.ARD m GIACOMO. Sccy.-Treas. 

Virginia 
REV. THOMAS BRENN.AN CSC u ^ a special guest from the campus for Universal Notre Dame Night, obser\-ed in Richmond on .April 26. 
Washington, D.C. 
Capital Clubbers held their .Annual St. Patrick's 
Day Party Mareh 17 at the Rosensteel K of C Club­
house in Forest Glen, Md. Guests were imited. 
The Annual Family Communion Breakfast was held 
on itiy 9 at Holy Cross College in Washington, 
featuring the annual business meeting, mo%-ies for the 
children, and a talk by SR. MARY MEL.ATHON 
CSC, superior of St. Joseph's Home for Boys. 
Universal Notre Dame Night u-as observed in 
Washington on June 8. Honored guest u-as Hon. 
John E. Moss, US congressman from Virginia. 
Western Washington 
On March 27 the Notre Dame Glee Club presented 
a concert at the Seattle Opera House under the 
sponsorship of the Catholic Youth Organization. A 
hea\-y alumni attendance u-as arranged by TOM 
MAY, former president and assistant director of the 
Glee Qub. 
Mr. and Mrs. JIM DAILEY led a host of .AuxiH­
arj* members and other volunteers to make the Mardi 
Gras Dance a smashing success. 
The Notre Dame Club of Western Washington 
presented Universal Notre Dame Night, saluting *\A 
Century of Science at ND," on .April 28, 1965, at 
the Holiday Inn on US 99 south of SeatUe. Featured 
speaker u-as REV. CHARLES W. H.ARRIS CSC. 
reccntl>' transferred from the campus to be special 
assistant to the president of the U. of Portland. BOB 
MORTENSEN u ^ chairman, DON SULUV.AN, the 
master of ceremonies and BEN LENOUE, the chair­
man for the ND Man of the Year .Award. 
The newly formed ND Club Women's Auxiliary 
met May 21 at the home of Mrs. W. H. M.ARX SR. 
Officers are Mrs. J.A.MES H. DAILEY, president; 
Mrs. JOHN V. HUPF, vice-president; and Mrs. R. S. 
(TIM) .McGARVEY, secretary-treasurer. 
Wichita 
.Alumni in Wichita, Kan., celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on Saturday, May 1, 1965, in the beautiful Wichita Club atop the Wichita Plaza Bldg. Social hour started at 6 p.m., with dinner at 7. The main address u-as delivered by JOHN J. BROD­ERICK. JR., assistant dean of the Notre Dame Law School,.who also spoke on local TV. Officers of the Notre Dame Club of Wichita officiating at the din­ner were: TED McDONALD, '59, president, stock­broker with Harris Uphani & Co.; WILLI.AM T. D.AVITT '52. vice-president, attorney at law, and NESTOR R. WEIG.AND JR. (1960), secretary-trea­surer, realtor. 
Youngstown-Warren 
WILLIAM G. LYDE.\ JR. '50, president of the Top Value Oil Co. and treasurer of the Lyden Oil Co., u-as named **Notrc Dame Man of the Year" as a past-president and a civic leader by the ND Club of the Youngstown-Warren area at the Cotillion Res­taurant, Youngstown, O., on .April 20. 
About 100 alumni and guests attended the affair marking the 42nd Universal Notre Dame Night. Featured speaker was DR. LAWRENCE H. BALD­INGER, associate dean of the ND College of Science, and the theme of his address w-as *^I00 Years of Science at Notre Dame." 
CHARLES B. CUSHWA JR., president and board chairman of the Commercial Shearing and Stamp­ing Co., u*inncr of the Club's first ''Man of the Year'* award in 1949, presented the scroll to Lyden. Other pre\'ious winners are GEORGE H. KELLY, Youngstown journalist, and P.AUL GUARNIERI, Warren attorney. 
JOSEPH LINDEN was program chairman. Club Pre^dent MICH.AEL G. LYDEN welcomed members and guests. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 39 
Miss Susan Muir and MARTIN J. ALLEN '38, 
SYMPATHY 

Grand Rapids, Mich., April 24. Miss Elaine Anne Buckley and JOHN EDWARD LEO ZGODZINSKI '14, on the death of his HART '39, Mendham, N.J., Januarj- 9. mother in April. Miss Jeanne Ann Martzell and JOSEPH G. ALBERT SERVA '24, on the death of his mother, MEINERT '39, Shreveport, La., November 28. December 6, 1964. 
Classes 

Miss Ann-Marie Mercer and FRANZ P. FRANK G. KERSJES '30, on the death of his 
ENGAGEMENTS 
Mrs. Winifred Morris ChafTee and EDWARD E. BRE.NNAN '31. Miss Maril>-n Aggclopoulos and SPIRO METROS '39. 

• Miss Susan Arnold and JEROME D. BAIER '34. -MUs Claudettc Murphy and THOMAS P. BACK MS '38. Miss Marilyn Jane Rogge and JOHS .\D.-\M DiKARDO '58. Miss Kathrjn Joan Wolfe and EDWARD WILLIAM HARDIG '58. Miss Anne Catherine Larkin and JOHX D. RUSSO '38. ' Miss Susan Bcmis Corey and JOSEPH M. BOLAND JR. '59. Miss Elia Ann Capones and RALPH A. DAK­GELMAIER '39. Miss Gail Marquart and THOM.4S F. BURKE '60. Miss Sara Ann Tomlinson and LEE ^UCH.^EL SHIP.MAN '60. Miss Marilvn Theresa Kralcowski and LAWRENCE THOM.AS BREKKA '61. Miss Mariellyn J. Median and JOHN RIORDAN HOLMES '61. Miss Karen O'Brien and D.ANIEL HARRISON RISHER JR. '61. Miss Susan Wade Nicdennan and PETER O'CON­NELL KELLY '62. Miss Kathc Joyce Menick and G.ARY L. TOWN­SEND '62. Miss Mary Edith Sabatini and JOSEPH F. I CARLINO JR. '63. 
Miss GaU McKinley and P.\UL F. DONOVAN 1 '63. ' Miss Audrey Heinemann and .ANDREW GRIF­; FIN '63. 
Miss Patricia Linda Hooks and J.AMES F. GRONDLV '63. Miss Rose Mary Lrach and EDWARD F. HACKETT JR. '63. Miss Merry Ann Stitier and ROBERT J. HELLRUNG '63. Miss Sharon Wagner and MICHAEL G. KOVAC JR. '63. 
Miss Heather Ann Mcintosh and CH.ARLES : JOSEPH McCULLOUGH '63. ; Miss Mary Louise Jackson and JOHN GILBERT ; PRENDERGAST JR. '63. ; Miss Rosanne Helen Neumann and P.AUL BER­
NARD SHERIDAN '63. Miss Judith Ann Stafford and .ARTHUR C. SMTH III '63. Miss Pamela Marie Wegner and J.AMES ROBERT .ALEX.ANDER JR. '64. Miss Kathleen Anne Musick and L.AWRE.\CE W. BORGMAN '64. Miss Gloria Thomas and ROBERT .A. CATONE '64. JCss Marie Christine Odusch and STEPHEN J.AMES CULLITON '64. Miss Carole Ann Barskis and J.AMES T. EGAN 
JR. '64. MUs Lorcn Fick and ROBERT J. GRAHEK '64. Miss Prudence Page O'Connor and P.AUL JEF­
FREY NEUBERT '64. Miss Gail Elizabeth Haske and J.AMES BER­NARD NUTTER '64. I Miss Barbara Coultrap and RICH.ARD A. Z.ACHAR '64. Miss Sharron Gail Brennan and JOHN MICHAEL PURTELL JR. '65. Miss Patricia Ann Tcrok and FREDERICK C. RUSINA '65. 
MARRIAGES 

Mrs. Clara Bill and W.ALTER L. CLEMENTS '14, South Bend, Ind., February 27. Miss Dorothy Jane Biekcr and RAYMOND ARTHUR KANE '39, Chicago, lU., February 27. 
Miss Nancy Caroline White and EARL GARY DONEGAN JR. '43, Denver, Colo., November 28. Scnorita Josefina Campero and JOHN J. BECK­
HAM '50, Mexico City, Mexico, January 2. Miss Mary Therese SicCormack and DONALD 
K. ROSS '53, Chicago, III., May 13. 
Miss Margaret Daly and BRADY PIERSOL McKAIG '57, Washington D.C., February 27. 
SCHEUERMANN '59, November 14. 
Miss Rita Cariene Burd and MATTISLAW MARION PLONSKI '60, Fort Wayne, Ind., Febru­ary 27. 
Miss Mary Kay SchoU and CARL HENRY BRUEGGEN III '61, Wilmette, 111., January 30. Miss Diane Rose Quiglcy and JOHN PHILIP KEEGAN '61, Spring Lake, N.J., January 30. Miss Susan Gregg and JOHN L. HORVATH JR. '62, Fort Wayne, Ind., February 6. 
Miss Joanne Patricia Bradley and GERALD C. MARTIN JR. MS'62, South Bend, Ind., February 27. 
Miss Barbara Ann Mej-erhoefer and DAVID F. CZULEWICZ '63, Notre Dame, Ind., February 13. Miss Kathleen Ann Schacfcr and KEVIN AN­
THONY GOOD '64, Notre Dame, Ind., April 24. Miss Sherry Rae Bell and WILLIAM CH.ARLES KRAUSE '64, Notre Dame, Ind., April 24. Miss Christine Louise Floyd and JOHN THOMAS LYONS '64, Flossmoore, III., April 3. Miss Karen Ann Fogle and GERALD L. FIERI '64, Notre Dame, Ind., April 19. Miss KirsU Campbell and MICHAEL F. MACKIN '65, Los Angeles, Calif., February 27. 
Miss Janet Josephine Nowicki and ROBERT CHARLES TELFER '65, South Bend, Ind., April 24. Miss Beverly Jean Leuthold and JOHN CHARLES 
VanDeWALLE '63, Notre Dame, Ind., May 1. 
BIRTHS 
.Mr. and Mis. HERBERT P. GIORGIO '32, a daughter, Melissa Mary, April 20. Mr. and Mrs. JOH.N B. GEORGE JR. '47, a daughter, Mary Rose, January- 8. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. BUZAN '30, a son, Robert Elmer, January 2. Mr. and Mrs. WALTER F. ZE.VNER '50, a daughter, Pauline Marie Anne, October 29. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM N. FARAB.AUGH '51, a daughter, Gini Marie, February 22. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD GOTTSACKER '46, a son, Paul Stephen, January. -Mrs. and -Mrs. CHARLES V. FALKENBERG JR. '52, a son, Thomas, February 14. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES V. GIBBONS '53, a son, Midiael Richard, May I. ilr. and Mrs. DO.N'ALD BERNARD LEMERSAL '53, a son, Donald Bernard Jr., November 18. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN W. STOEPLER '53, a son, Michael Francis, March 25. Mr. and Mrs. J.AMES M. CORCORAN JR. '54, a daughter, Pauline Marie, April 26. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. McAULIFFE '55, a son, Michad Bick, January- 12. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT T. GALEA '57, a son, Robert Thomas Jr., March 24. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS B. 4UUS '57, a son, January I. Lt. and Mrs. THOMAS C. BARTHOLOMEW '58, a son, Paul William, May 3. Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN F. DRAGOS '39, a son, Stephen Benedict, April 8. Mr. and Mrs. FREDERIC J. MOWLE '39, a son, Tliomas Stanley, February* 22. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. MURPHY '39, a daughter, Maura Cathleen, March 23. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS F. B.ATES '60, a son, Michael Joseph, March 19. ^^r. and Mrs. JOSEPH W. DORRYCOTT '60, a daughter, Megann Marie, February 18. Mr. and Mrs. JACOB A. DVORAK '60, a son, Jacob .Anthony Jr., March 8. Mr. and Mrs. TERRY LALLY '60, a son, Daniel Joseph, November. Mr. and Mrs. WALTER J. RUT)GE '60, a son, Kevin John, January 14. Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES A. S.AWICKI '60, a daughter, Cynthia Ellen, February 12. Mr. and Mrs. ANTHONY T. BRUNO '61, a son, Anthony Thomas Joseph, February 18. Mr. and Mrs. DONALD B. RICE JR. '61, a son, Joseph John, February 3. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL B. BERETZ '62, a son, Charles Douglas, January 30. Lt. and Mrs. DENNIS F. O'COXNELL '62, a son, Brian Timothy, January 19. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL R. ROSSMAN '64, a son, Paul Anthony, January 30. 

mother, February 9. 
F. WENDELL LENSING '30, on the death of his wife, February 21. VINCENT J. McCUE '30, on the death of his wife, January 23. MICHAEL D. O'HARA '33, on the death of his ivife, March 28. REV. JOSEPH ENGLISH '37, on the death of his mother in I9&4. JOHN '37, WILLI.AM N. '31 and DAVE FARA­BAUGH '42 on the death of their mother, March 28. CLARENCE P. SCHU.MACHER '38, on the death of his mother, Januarv 1. WILLIAM P. '40 and J.AMES F. McVAY '43, on the death of their father, January' 23. FRANCIS E. FERGUS '40, on the death of his wife. May 9. 
CHARLES M. '38, PAUL .\L '40 and THOMAS 

.A. MORRISON '42, on the death of their father, 
December 22, 1964. 
JOHN C. '44 and WILLIAM A. BAUM JR. '41, 

on the death of their father, October, 19&4. 
JOHN A. CZERWIEC '47, on the death of his 

mother, April 25. 
THO^L\S H. '49 and HARLAN DEVLIN '51, 

on the death of their father. 
JOHN E. McHALE JR. '50, on the death of his 

father, Januarv 29. 
ALLAN J. '31, JOH.N F. '35 and THOMAS E. 

POWERS '55, on the death of their father in 
February. 
ROBERT DeORSEY '52, on the death of hU father, April 30. DONALD J. STR.ASSER '52, on the death of his father, March 17. LEROY F. '54 and J.AMES L. B.AZANY '59, on tlic death of their father, August, I9&4. GUY MACINA JR. '34, on the death of his mother, January 11, ROBERT J. ZALE '33, on the death of his father, October, 1964. WILFRED J. '36 and ROBERT J. RILEY '56, on the death of their father, February 11. J.AMES L. BYRNE '57, on the death of his father, April 17. FRED K. CORKILL '37, on the death of his father, December 8, I9&». EDWARD W. MURPHY '37, on the death of his father, April 3. PATRICK E. HUGHES '58, on the death of his father. ALFRED JR. '58 and WILLI.Ait WEINSHEI.MER '62, on the death of their father, March 30. THADDEUS J. McDO.VALD '59, on Uie death of his father, March 21. RICHARD E. GEIGER '60, on the death of his father, November 1963. WILLIAM P. NAJJUM '60, on the death of his father. May 20, 19H. ROBERT W. LENSING '61, on the death of his mother, February 21. BRUCE A. PRANGLE '61, on the death of his father, October 1964. WILLIASI J. IRVIN '62, on the death of his father, September 6, 1964. JOHN R. RAEDY '62, on the death of his father, January 27. JOHN C. BRUNO '63, on tlie death of his father in April. JOHN F. '62 and FRA.\CIS M. WILBRAHAM '62, on the death of their father, Januarv 17. JOHN A. SIEGER '64, on the death of his father, January 8. KENNETH L. GEOLY '63, on the death of his father, October 2, 1964. 
DEATHS 

HARVEY S. BECHTEL '02, president since 1931 of the Wakanisa (Indiana) Exchange State Bank, died from pneumonia on April 11 in Elkhart General Hospital. Survivors include a sister. 
REV. JOHN J. HENNESSY CSC '02, second oldest priest of the Holy Cross Fathers' Indiana Province, died March 4 at Holy Cross House on the campus. Father Hennessy returned to the US in 1961 after 54 years of missionary service in India and East Pakistan. 
EDWARD W. McDER-MOTT '03, retired accoun­tant and former city treasurer of Waukegan, Dlinob, died January 28. Survivors include his wife and a 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
PETER G. DWYER Ul , former football coach at 
Niagara U. and Clarkson College of Technology and 
asst. coach at Syracuse U., died April 14 in 
Syracuse, N.Y. After leading Clarkson he was 
personnel mgr. of Cain's Corp. in Boston until seven 
yean ago. He is survived by his wido\%- and son. 
CLEMENT L. DEVINE W, of Miami Beach, 
Florida, died September 28, 1964, according to in­
formation just recently rccei%-ed at the Alumni Office. 
DENNIS E. LANNON '07 died February 4 at his 
home in Mason City, Iowa. He worked for Cudahy 
Packing Co. of Omaha for 32 years until his retire­
ment in 1946. His wife and two sons sur\*ive him. 
BERNARD GIRA '10, recipient of the Custer 
(South Dakota) Jaycce Civil Servant award for 1965, 
died February 26. Survivors include three sons. 
WILLIAM J. MURPHY '10 of Detroit, Midiigan, 
is deceased according to word received at the 
Alumni Office. No details. 
CLYDE E. BROUSSARD *13, chairman of the 
board of Beaumont Rice Mills, Beaumont, Texas, 
died March 14 from injuries received when a tank 
fell on him after it slipped off a platform at the 
mill two days earlier. A former ND Alumni Board 
member and ND Man of the Year in 1954, he was 
on the Adv*isory Council for the College of Business 
Administration. Until his death he rowcd regularly, 
often more than five miles at a time, on the Neches 
River. He is sur\"ived by his wife, son and four 
daughters. 
TORGUS "TURK" H. OAAS U4, former room­
mate and teammate of Knutc Rockne, died Marcit 
21 in Butte, Montana. He worked for The Anaconda 
Company for 43 years, retiring as assistant general 
superintendent of mines. Sur\'ivors include a son. 
OWEN MURPHY '15, composer, screenwriter, 
industrial motion-picture director and cxecuti\*e, 
died April 3 at his home in Stone Harbor, New 
Jerse>'. Survivors include his wife, son Owen Jr. 
'62, another son and a daughter. 
WALTER L. ASHDOWN '16 of Downer's Grove. 
Illinois, is deceased according to mail returned to 
the Alumni Office. 
CASIMIR I. KRAJEWSKI '16, designer of 
churches and schools throughout the Midwest, died 
in his home on Fcbruar>- 7. He Is survived by his 
w*ifc, t^^'o sons and two daugliters. 
FR.ANK L. CULLINAN '18 of Fort Lauderdale, Florida, died in 1964 according to mail received at the Alumni Office. His widow sur\'ives. 
VINCENT C. GIBLIN '18 of Miami, former circuit judge and colorful, blunt-spoken member of the Florida Bar for nearly half a century, died March 30. Sur%'ivors include his wife. 
WALTER J. SCHUMUCKER '19 of Balmorhca, Texas, died August 17, 1963 of a heart attack, according to word received In the Alumni Office. There were no further details. 
WILFRED J. RILEY '21, former editor-in-chief of the theatrical publications of Billboard Publishing Co., died suddenly February 11 in Detroit. "Duke" has worked for the Jam Handy Organization for 19 years and lived in Moulionboro, New Hampshire. He is survived by his wife and two sons, Wilfred J. '56 and Robert J. '62. 
FREDERICK H. "FRITZ" BAUMER '22, Jack­sonville, Florida, community leader, died March 5 following an illness of many months. He was a past president of the North Florida. ND Club. Survivors include his wife and two sons. 
JOHN P. BRADY LLB'22, Ashland, Kentucky, attorney, died January 10 after an extended Illness. Survivors include his w'tic and two daughters. 
COL. ELMER J. COLLINS '23, (USA-Ret.) of Belpre, Ohio, died January 12, while on a business trip to Pittsburgh, Pa., for Marbon Chemical Co. of Parkersburg, W. Va. Survivors Include his wife, son and daughter. 
JOHN M. MONTAGUE *23 a Chicago Tribune employee for 40 years until his retirement June 1, died March 20. He was a past president of the ND Club of Chicago. He is survived by his widow and t^vo daughters. 

PAUL J. CRADEN '24, assistant chief of the out­patient clinic at the VA Hospital in Wichita, Kansas, died January 30. He is survived by his wife and daughter. 
SR. M. CHRISTIANA ECKMANS OSU '25, of Brescia College, Owensboro, Kentucky, Is deceased according to word received on February 2. 
D. RICHARD McAULIFFE '25, Albion, Midiigan. died February 6 of cancer. Survivors include his wife and two daughters. 
REUBEN F. MOMSEN '25, an EI Paso, Texas, attorney, died January 23. He served as co-chairman of the National Conference of Christians and Jews in 1951. He is survived by his wife and t^vo sons. 
FRANK A. REESE '25, Robinson, Illinois, died 
Klarch 28. He was a sales representative for a 
cement company and traveled a large territory. He 
is survived by one son. 
FREDERICK E. WATSON LLB'25, Munde, 
Indiana, attorney, died February 17. Survivors In­
clude his wife. 
CARL C. FESKE '27, of Indianapolis, Indiana, 
died April 27. He had been with Indiana Bell 
Telephone Co. for 38 years. He is survived by his 
wife, sons Carl David '61 and Tom, and a daughter. 
ROBERT L. J.ACKSON '27, of Denver, Colorado, 
died'January II according to mail returned to the 
Alumni Office. 
HAROLD F. WELCH '27, a foreman at General 
Railway Signal Co., Rochester, New York, died 
March 9. Surviving are his ^vife and two sons. 
CHARLES H. LYNCH LLB'28, Santa Barbara, 
California, attorney, died March 25 according to 
word received from Class Secretary Lou Buckley. 
PAUL T. CAREY '29 of Bellaire, Ohio, died 
December 17, I9W, of a heart attack in St. Clairs­
ville, Ohio. Survivors Include a son. 
^VILLIAM ALFRED HA\VKINS '29 of Evergreen 
Park, Illinois, is deceased according to word recently 
received at the Alumni Office. No details. 
SR. M. SEVERINA HOSINSKA CSC '29 of St. 
Mary's Convent, Notre Dame, died several years 
ago according to word just received at the Alumni 
Office. 
ROBERT LEO -\RNOLD LLB'30 of Ithaca, Michigan, died June 26, 1962, according to word just received. 
L,\URENCE F. ENRIGHT '3D of Pituburgh, 
Pennsylvania, died January 11 according to word 
received at the Alumni Office. 
ROBERT J. BATY '31 of Detroit. Michigan, died 
February- 27, 1963, according to word just received. 
CHARLES J. SPINELLI '31, Munhall, Pennsyl­vania, died December 17, 1964. Survivors Include his wife and three children. 
NEIL C. HURLEY JR. '32 of River Forest, Illinois, Thor Power Tool Co. board chairman and a University advisor for the College of Business .Administration, died Febniar>' 9, He Is survived by his wife and three daughters. 
CH.ARLES PARTAK '32 of Bddlng, Michigan, is deceased according to mail returned to ^Vlumni Office. 
FRANCIS J. CROWE '33 of Chicago, Illinois, died April 7 after a long Illness. Survivors Include his wife. 
HARRY J. ROCKETT JR. '34 of Milton, Massachusetts, died April 2. No other details were given. 
GEORGE J. LYNCH '35 of Benton Harbor, Midiigan, died February' 27. Survivors include his 
wlte. 
^UNSAVORTH C. W.ADE '36 of Sturgis, Michigan, died in 1961 according to word just received from his widow. 
REV. CYPRIAN G. YAHNER MS'36 of St. Vincent Archabbey, Latrobe, Pcnns>ivania, Is de­ceased. No other details are known. 
WILLIAM J. GOMBER JR. '37 of Budd Lake, New Jersey, died September 13, 1964, of cancer according to word received from his sister. 
JULIUS L. NARDONE '37 of Brooklyn, New York, died unexpectedly February 10 according to word received from his sister. 
BERNARD G. QUIRK '37 of Shakopce, Minne­sota, died December 19, 1964. Survivors include his wife. 
NORBERT P. TINNES '37, of Glcnvlew, Illinois, died February 11, 1964, according to word just received In the Alumni Office. ­
JOHN L. BUCKLEY '38 of Midland, Texas, died suddenly January 25 of a heart attack. Survivors include his widow and eight children. 
SA.NFORD S. "S.\NDY" FRIEDMAN LLB'39. of Baytown, Texas, died July 18, 1964, when his car was struck by a train. 
ROBERT F. WILSON '39 of South Bend, Indiana, suffered a cerebral hemorrhage ^vhile driving to work In Elkhart and died 12 hours later on February 
9. He is survived by his ^\ife, two sons and a daughter. 
ANDREW J. K. M. McCAFFREY '42, public relations director of ^VPIX-TV and ^VPIX-F.M, the broadcasting stations of The New York Daily News, died April 14 at Mount Sinai Hospital. Survivors inculdc his wife and daughter. 
ALLAN J. CLARK '43 died February 5 of a cerebral hemorrhage in a Washington Township, New Jersey hospital. He Is survived by a wife and three sons. 
ARTHUR VICTOR PRICE '46, of Anaheim, California, died suddenly of a heart attack on 

September 28, 1964. He is survived by his wife, 
twin sons and six dau^ters. 
WILLIAM A. GERHARD PhD '48 died Dccem­

ber 19, 1964. (See page 17.) 
THOMAS W. JACKSON '48, Hanulton, Ohio, 

died on February 9. He had been ill with cancer 
for seven months and ho^italized most of that time. 
He is survived by his wife and two smaQ children. 
JOHN C. QUINLAN '48, Chicago Cubs sports­

caster, was killed March 20 when his car went out 
of control on a curve near Mesa, Arizona, where 
the Cubs were in spring training. He is survived by 
his wife, two sons and two daughters. 
JOHN J. CONNELLY '49 of Passaic, New Jersey, 

Is deceased according to mail returned to the Alumni 
Office. 
JOSEPH J. TRUCCO '54, Ehnhurst, Illinois, died 

as a result of an acddent on a construction nte in 
Lombard, III., on ^r U 28. Surviving are hu wife 
and seven children. 
SR. M. DANIEL TAMMANY MA'55, Fonthonnc 

College, St. Louis, Afissouri, is deceased according 
to word received in the Alumni Office. 
BRO. VINCENT P. WILL CSC '55. athletic 

director at St. Edward High School, Lakewood, 
Ohio, died April 21 following surgery after a year­
long battle with leukemia. He taught until he 
entered the hospital a few days before hu death. 
Survivors indude his father. 
MARCO V. ASTURIAS '58, Guatemala City, 

Guatemala, was killed March 29 in an auto acddent 
along with his son and brother-in-law. His vnfe 
survives him. 
REV. DENNIS J. FREE.\L\L CSC '57 was kiHed 

when his car plunged through a guardrail on the 
Kennedy Expressway in Chicago and onto a street 
below, bursting into flames. Fr. Freemal taught 
biology and religion at Notre Dame High School, 
Niles, Illinois, and was doing graduate v^'ork in 
biology at Loyola U. Survivors include his parents. 
CONRAD T. HUBNER JR. '58 of Alexandria, 

Virginia, died April 5. No other details were given. 
LT. JOHN G. BYRNE JR. '60 USMC, WiUiams­

ville. New York, died February 27 when his plane 
plunged into Tokuyama Bay, 450 miles southwest of 
Tokyo. He was scheduled to be discharged May 23. 
Survivors indude his mother. 
THOMAS D.-\LRYMPLE '61 of Dolton. Illinois, was killed December 14, 1962, in an automobile acddent outside Washington, D.C. He was an ensign on the stall U.S.S. Pocono at the time of his death. Survivors indude his brother. 
J.\MES C. MULLIG-AN '61 of Reading, Pennsyl­vania, died of leukemia on February 3 after a long hospitalization. Survivors indude his mother. 
BRITTON I. BUDD, member of the ND Advisory Coundl for Sdence and Engineering, died January 26 in Chicago. His survivors indude his wife. 
IRA W. CIRALSKY, member of the South Bend President's Committee, died January 23. He is survived by his \vife and two daughters. 
BEING TON MARK, o^vner of Mark's Sen Sai Gai Cafe, South Bend, died February 21. Survivors Indude his wife, son and mother. 
MRS. JULIA A. PIRCHIO, widow of ProL Pasquale Pirchio of the Notre Dame faculty, died March 18 in Ev*anston, Illinois. Survivors indude two daughters. 
iLVJ. DANIEL J. WATERS, USA Retired, who taught law at Notre Dame from 1924 to 1927, flied March 21 In Washington, D.C. 
D.WID A. WEIR, former Notre Dame professor of economics and government, died April 17 in New Rochelle, New York. 
50-YEAR CLUB 
Walter L. Qcmaits 
Tower Banding 

South Bend, Ind. From the Alumni Office: 
The keeper of this space, WALTER I. CLEMEN*TS, was the star of a happy event merely recorded in last issue's statistics. On Feb. 27, in St. Mary's of the Assumption Church, South Bend, Avidower Clements and widowed Mrs. Clara Bill were married. Long associated in Catholic Action in South Bend, bride and bridegroom share an extensive Notre Dame tradition. Mrs. Clements is the mother of REV. THO.MAS LEE BILL CSC '51, MA '57, a member of the faculty of the University of Port* land. Ore., and SR. MARY CLARE ALFRED CSC, currently teaching at St. Thomas School, Elkhart, Ind. ^Valter is the father of five, induding three alumni sons, Walter Jr. '51, WiUiam '55, and Robert ^LA '60, who was an attendant at the wedding along with &frs. Robert Strd}inger, a married daughter of the bride's. Congratulations, Colonel. There's a new strength in your life; may it be reflected in this column. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 41 
One of Walters firel duties after the event was a vcr>' unhapp>* one, to relay the sad news of the accidental death of an old friend and Io\-al helper of this column and all things of Noire Dame. CLYDE E. BROUSSARD U3 of Beaumont. Tex., on March 14. Just a few weeks before Clyde had written JIM .ARMSTRONG about a South .•American trip that demonstrated his devotion better than any words of ours: 
''As I was furnished with a list of alumni in a number of South .\merican countries through your office, you probably know that I have made a trip to Caracas, Rio. Sao Paulo, Montevideo, Buenos 
•Aires, Santiago dc Chile, Lima and Bogota. This trip was more or less a business and pleasure trip sponsored by the World Trade Committee of the East Texas Chamber of Commerce. .At each of the cities xTsited, the men in our group met with local government officials, US officials and local business­men. 
*'I did not lr\* to look up all persons listed on your alumni list, but I did inquire, and in many instances the people at the luncheon knew the alumni well and spoke highly of them ... . In Santiago, Chile, I had a nice vbit at St. George's College »vith several of the priests who are alumni of Notre Dame. It was their summer vacation time and the school w:is closed, but the>' gave me a quick tour of the properties, FR. GERALD J. WHEL.A\ and FR, ROBERT G. SIMON joined me for dinner at a restaurant ol their selection so that we could have food of the area ... . {Clyde mentioned other alumni in Bogota and Lima for their appropriate class columns and concluded:) One amazing part of the infonnation picked up by me on the trip is that, as far back as history-goes—including Indian lustorv-, it has never rained in Lima. The\" get irrigation water from rains and melting snow in the .Andes, which are verv- near to them. You probably recall that the DC6 that crashed into the mountains a few days ago was only 50 miles from Santiago, and it appears the mountains are just as close to Lima.'' 
It is with these words shov%'ing his great charity, vigor and love of life tliat CLYDE BROUSSARD bade farewell. ^Ve'II miss him, as well as a dozen other recently deceased Semi-centcnarians, including: banker HARVEY BECHTEL of Wakarusa, Ind., and the Minims of the 1890's, who died in .April; FR. JOHN HE.\NESSY CSC '02, wJ)o spent the better part of his life in the Bengal Missions before his death in March; EDWARD McDERMOTT '03, whose death was mourned by fello%v ^fonogrammers and by citizens of Waukegan, 111., in late January; PETER DWYER 'U, who died in April after closing three successive careers as an athlete, coach and businessman; CLEMENT DEVINE '07, a generous friend of the University in Miami, Fla.. whose death last fall was not learned until early this year, and his classmate DENNIS L.ANNON, retired from the food business, who died in February in Omaha; BERNARD GIR.A '10, whose passing last February- in Custer, S.D.. removed the last surviving officer of the Black Hills ND Club, and Detroit classmate WILLLAM MURPHY, whom the Monogram Club has marked deceased on the word of the Post Office; and finally retired mining executive "TURK** O.AAS, whose death in March diminished the survixing intimates of K. K. ROCKNE. Each of these deserves a column of his own, but we arc limited to a prayer here ("Lux Perpctua luceat eis") and condolences to their loved ones. 
It is especially to be regretted that Afr. Du-\'er died before he could be contacted by many of his fellow 1909 Champions of the AVest. as requested by FRANCIS HACKETT 'H in the last issue. 
There has been much in recent class pages about the last of the pharmao' degrees awarded in the I930's, but those receiving some of the earliest are still going strong. LOTTIE KOLUP.A '04 of South Bend suffered a setback recently when he was told that a local urban reneival project wiU end lijs 5&-ycar career in pharmacy- at Chapin and Western. .Although he was 82 on May 3, Mr. Kolupa has no intention of retiring with the closing of his drug­store and has been considering offers for his scr\'iccs from other local pharmacists. He still stomps' out a mean polka at weddings and parties, although he gave up bic>'cling to work a few years ago from his home at 1115 W. Jefferson. A veteran clioir singer and actor in pla>-5 at St. Hedvrig's Church, he was alM) a cometist for the M.R. Falcon band. ^Ir. Kolupa was followed in pharmacx* by son Gene, deceased, and grandson Louis, now operating in Mundc, Ind. 
Classmate JOSEPH B. MORRISON wrote: "Per­haps you arc interested in old'timc ND history, so here is a picture you may enjoy. It's the Corby Hall football team of 1904. What has become of these 
Spotlight Alumnus. •. 
WILLIAM G. FERSTEL '00 Chicagoan Feted on His Sixty-fifth 

Although at 81 he wasn't quite up to frisking at the campus reunions with younger Chicagoans like Dan O'Connor '05, Bill Ferstel amply celebrated the 65th an­niversary of the Class of 1900 (of which he is apparently the last sur\'iving member) by being named Chicago's ND Man of the 
fellows I dun't know, but they were all friends of mine 60 years ago. 1 am retired now after 51 years with the Lucas Division of Sherwin Williams Co. I do enjoy news of Notre Dame.'' Tlic enclosed picture (too light for reproduction here but treas­ured in the Alumni Office archives) bears the names REARDO.V. WINTER, CALLICRATE, DuBRUL. HERMANN. MGR. EMERSON, C^PT. WAGNER. WINTER. HALLIDAY, SHEEHAN, LANDRY, BRENN.^N, GR.\Y and FLAHERTY — with the crv-ptic inscription "canned" after five of the entries. 
Definitely not "canned" is DO.M CALLICRATE '08, who played a lot more football, went west to Columbia College, now the University of Portland, Ore., preceding BILL SCHMITT '10 in teaching, coaching, scouting and returning the likes of FREE­
- M.\.N, FITZGERALD, PHELAN, SH.\RP, COOKE, FINNEGAN and other West Coast greats who were contemporaries of Easterners like STAN COFALL. Mr, Callicratc was on campus in early May but couldn't hang around to celebrate his 57th at the Reunion—had to get back to Portland and "mow the lawn" at 5712 N. Vancouver. But at Corby or Holv Cross House reunionists will find such CSC's as FRS. DOL.\N. DOREMUS, HEBERT and CON H.AGERTY '06, who still chaplains the annual local St. Pat's Day banquet of the Ancient Order of Hibernians. 
Bridging the gap between Scmicentcnarians and "teenagers" is this letter from JOHN VOELKERS '18 of 1006 S. Wesley Ave., Oak Park, III.: 
"Dear Walter: With interest 1 read the article in the .ALU-M.VUS concerning the 50-Year Club. It contained much information about the 'old timers,' many of whom I knew. It so happened I visited Cedar Point, Ohio, the summer 'Rock' and 'Gus' were lifeguards there. I saw them throwing and receiving the football in their spare moments. It paid off handsomely the following fall. 
"In answer to the suggestion (by J.\MES H.\YES '17, Washington, D.C.) of who can name the members of the J9I3 team WIJO went to West Point, how many went and who were the subs, here is the information from one of those members: 
"Regulars: Ends, ROCKNE & GUSHURST; Guards, KEEFE & FITZGERALD; QB, DORAIS; FB, EICHENLAUB; Tackles, JO.VES & LATHROP; Centcr, FEENEY; KB, FIN.VEGAN & PLISKA. 
"Subs: Ends, NOWERS & ELWARD; Tackle & 

Year before about 1.200 fellow townsmen 
at Universal Notre Dame Night. 
After taking his BS in Commerce at the turn of the century Mr. Ferstel studied law in Chicago, became a passenger agent for the Illinois Central Railroad and continued as one of the foremost football fans of the Irish. He's seen virtually ever>' home game since the "Ramblers'" 4-1-1 season in 1898. missing such as last season's UCLA game on the golden anniversary of his marriage to Loretta Carey in 1914. (They offered a Jubilee Mass with congratulations from Mr. and Mrs. Lyndon Johnson). As a spectator at the 1913 Army game, he has vivid recol­lections of Gus Dorais' forward passes to Knutc Rockne. Becoming a close friend and advisor to the latter, he often helped with the coach's travel plans in the Twen­ties. He was present to say good-bye when Rockne boarded the AVcstcrn Air Express plane that later crashed in a Kansas corn­field in March, 1931. 
Mr. Ferstel is senior member of the law firm of Ferstel, Sofcal & Ferstel with his son Jim '48, a former vice-president of the national Alumni .Assn. Himself a former honorary president of Chicago's alumni, he is a senior counselor for the Illinois Bar; member of the Chicago, Illinois State, Amer­ican and Federal Bar Assns.; American Judicature Society, American Academy of Political and Social Sciences and the Cath­olic Law>'ers Guild. A member of the Chi­cago Athletic and Michigan Shores Clubs, he is also a director of Catholic Charities for the Archdiocese of Chicago. 
Guards, COOK, KI.VG & VOELKERS; Backs. 
BERGER, L.ARKIN & DUGGAN. Total: 19. 
"Six 'rooters' accompanied the team—CALNON, HULL, WILLLAMS, DR. LUCAS, DICKENS and one other whose name I cannot recall. I have a series of photos taken on the trip ... . Best wishes for continued good health." Thanks, JOHN VOELKERS. Secretary Clements has verified this entry in the Army Game Sweepstakes but also can­not identify the sixth traveling partisan. How 'bout it. fans? 
BERNARD VOLL '17 wxote in to advise of the death of Agnes J. Hayes, widow of the late FRANK HAYES '14, in Januar>* of this year. Requievi 
aetemam dona eis, Domine. 
Finally, congratulations to FR. S.AL F.\NELLI CSC '14 on liaving been safely evacuated from Sacred Heart No\-itiate, Jordan, Minn., where he was serving as chapbin this spring, during ihc wtorst Rood in Minnesota historv*. Hope to see you and many emeriti back for the Semlcentenarv initiation of the Class of '15. 
Albert A. Kuhic 
'15 
117 Sunset Ave. La Grange, III. 60525 

From the .'\lumnt Office: 
With a snowstorm of correspondence President ROBERT ROACH and Sccreta^^- ALBERT KUHLE liavc been working full-time on the Golden Jubilee, and the results will be reported in the next iMue. Meanwhile one of the stars of the show, DR. GEORGE SHUSTER, lias been showing up regularly in conferences, publications and the public press. He told the Midwest Sister Fonnation Conference in Chicago that religious must learn to accept increasing leadership from the laity. He brought out a book on 
The Problem of Population: Practical Catholic Applications (see "Books," this issue) and reviewed others for The New York Times (which also recently ran a picture of Hunter College's handsome Shusfer Hall in its magazine section). 
Among the distinguished "exes" whom the Class will remember at the Jubilee Memorial Mass is OWEN MURPHY, whose death April 3 was a shock to all. His early Interest in show business led him to a career as an outstanding producer of documentary' films, including the color mo\ie used by the Uni­
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
vcrslty, to which he u-as a geiiLTous conlnbutor. S>inpath>' to Mrs. Murphy (Jacquelin Av., Hohokus, XJ.) and to Owen Jr. *62. 
•| ^ Grovcr F. MiUer 220 9th St. Radnc, Wis. 

.^ From the .Alumni Office: Belated condolences to Marcclla, widow of archi­
•\ tect C. L KRAJEWSKI (547 .\. EdgcwtxHl Av., 
i^ LaGrangc Park, III.), on her husband's death in Fcbruar>-. Also to his children, including Bob *50, and 17 grandchildren. In addition to this progeny '"Casey" left behind many schools and churches of his design; few of us can have so many beautiful' monuments to our brief existence here. He was a member of the Chicago XD Club and the Monogram 
— Club (\-nrsity baseball). 
Edward J. McOsker 
•17 525 N. Melioe Ave. Elgin, m. 
From the Alumni Office: Duke Riley has released the earth shaking news that lie is a gr^a(-grandfather. His oldest grand­daughter has named her first child, a boy, John Riley Euslis, which is only a fitting tribute after all to the class poet and star of the Glee Club. Can any other Sevcnteener make the statcinenl that he is a grraZ-grandfatlier? 
Thanks to JAMES HAYES and BERXARD VOLL for their material in the 50-Year Club column and to DAS HILGARTXER for obiluarv material on "CASEY" KRAJEWSKI '16 and Judge VIXCEXT GIBLI.V 'J8, ns. weH as the following delightful observation: 
'"I watched the beginning of the Toronto-XD nigby game (.April 25) . . . and it is really legalized mayhem. It reminded nic of the spring practice just 50 years ago, I9I5. when good old Rock thought rugby would be a good conditioner for his squad. He called the men together and explained the rudi­ments of the game and then asked for the ball. It could not be found, and after a few minutes BILL KELLEHER, t>om in the *ouId country' and r'arin" to go, shouted 'The hell with the ball. Rock, let's start the game!* " 
Congratulations to B.J. VOLL on his long service on the board of managers of Healthwin Hospital until his recent retirement and to DR. D.^L XIGRO on his Italian Ail-American team (including X'otre Damere XORM XICOLA and TOM LOXGO) which spiced the proceedings of the last XC.A.A Coaches Convention. 
George Waage 
•18 3305 Wrightwood Ave. Chicago^ 10. 
From the desk of JOHX F. LAUGHLIX, dated December 18, 1964, quote: "Thanks for the excel­lent material on Class of '18." For one that's never done anything like this before a "pat" from the proper source is appreciated. 
Our next December quote comes from ERXIE "STUFFIE" BURKE, my roommate: "Meeting the old timers—especially exuberant guj-s like MJVX K.AZUS—must be stimulating. I heard from HEIXTE BERGER since he arrived in Arizona. It looks us though the matrimoniat situation will remain Status Quo. I am going on a West Indies 13-day cruise— leaving Jan. 9.** 
Xow comes WILLIAM E. BR.ADBURY, Dec. 18. Imagine Bill fl>ing to XD in a pri\'atc four-place plane for a football game. He states it u'as a verv*. ver>- smooth flight—"Got permission to fly over Purdue Univereity foolball field. People were begin­ning to arrive there. I cannot say that I enjoy flying, but it is a wt>ndcrful quick u^iy to go although I have great apprehension in the air. knowing all the time that if the motor should fail wc iWII go right down. Brother STA-V is in Chicago at a State's Attorney meeting. The last game of the XD football team ^^•as a heart-breaker, wasn't it? I listened and it sounded like a cinch the first half and the last half really was something, but honestly, George, the team not only played against S,C. but against the officials as well. I heard every word of the game, and when they disallowed that touchdown and then again called them on the two-foot line, I knew that it was like the old times (now Bill goes way back when—50 >-cars ago) when CHARLIE BACHMAX LL.B'17 almost whipped the referee in the Xebraska game when he disaflowed the third 

SURVIVING SEVEN of the Irish starting eleven in the 1925 Rose Bowl game (better known as the Four Horsemen and Seven Mules) appeared at the funeral of teammate Harry Stuhldrehcr. Gathered the evening before were: (from left) Adam Walsh, center (now US marshal, Brunswick, Me.); Chuck Collins, left end (attorney in Ridgewood, N.J.); Joe Bach, left tackle (labor arbitrator, Bridgeville, Pa.); Don Miller, right half (attorney, Cleveland, O.); Elmer Laydcn, fullback (trans­port e.Yecutivc, Winnetka, 111.); and Jim Crowley, left half (Pennsylvania regional development director, Scranton, Pa.). Inset: Edgar "Rip" Miller, right tackle 
(assistant athletic director, US Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.), next morning. 
touchdown when you and I were at XD. An>-way ARA PARSEGHIAX deserves a lot of credit, and I have written him after every game congratulating him. Before the Purdue game they had the Purdue coach on the air, and he said 'I have alwa>-s been able to handle the Catholics Okay but I don't know what this Presbyterian is going to do,* and before the game was over Parseghian Jiad done plenty. 
MORRIE ST.ARRETT pops up with this clipping 
from Seattle Post-Intelligencer, June 3. '64. "Our 
City—By Eminelt Watson"—quote: "E.M. (MOR­RIE) STARRETT has retired from the Highway Dept., and we can't let him go without saluting a onetime \All-.American Water Boy'—picked by no less a football authority than Mr. All-.American him­self, Walter Camp. That was in 1924, when Starrett was water boy for KXUTE ROCKX'E and the Four Horsemen of X'D." Wondering now if Morric went back after '18 for a refresher course. 
Phone call from L.AMBERT Q. SEXG, another track man. You really should have Seng tell the 5tor\- about his playing basketball center for Walsh Hall against Corby Hall, who had BIG FR.ANK RYDZEW*SKI playing center for them. With Frank's height no one could outjump him, but Seng recalls they had a face-off under the basket, and in order to outjump Frank this time, Seng held onto Frank's belt. Up wtnt Frank, but Seng went higher and tipped the ball in the basket. GARG.AX, the referee, would not allow Frank's claim of foul, and you can imagine that there was one Mad Pole ready to fight the whole leain. 
Had lunch and a mighty nice time at Morris Inn with Mr. Annslrong and Mr. Laughlin. The three of us have approved the application of Commander Call's grandson. Chrbtopher Call Bonwit. So. CHARLIE, it's in the bag; Christopher will be on campus this fall. 
Three cards were returned; JOHX* L. corrected me on the address of THOM.AS J. O'MEARA, ANTHOXY C. FASEXMYER and LOUIS HEL­LERT. The cards were sent back with correct address as wc did not want 'em to think they had been overlooked. Sure hope we get word from 'em that we might have a note about their doings to report for the next .ALUMNUS. X'OW that goes for one and all of you gu>-s. let's hear from you. 
WM. E. BRADBURY heard from FR. CH.AS. DOREMUS but missed hearing from FR. FIX­XEG.AX*. Bill got a gift—states it is a beautiful X^'otrc Dame chair; this I gotta see next time in Robinson, 111. 
From the .Alumm Office, the following change of address: WILLI.AM JOSEPH AXDRES EE18, now located in the States at P.O. Box 3880, Brighton Station, Rochester, X.Y. Pleased to report that I now have JOHX VOELKERS' phone number. John uYote a note to report that he heard from BILL .AXDRES, who stated he has left Mexico for good. Bill's son-in-law passed away, so Bill and wife, daughter and her family returned here to the States. .Andres and wife spent Thanksgiving with their son in California, spent Christmas with their daughter in Morrison, 111. More about that guy Voclkers who earned his monogram running the quarter mile. If you are interested he trained running a quarter mjle laid out by "ROCK." It started at the Cemetery gate and stretched to the Old Post Office. Wc ole timers remember the old path; wonder what the track men today would think about it. I promised Voellters I would not report about the Weber High Football Dinner where he "pinch-hit" for Coach .AR.A PARSEGHIAX, who was snowed in and could not appear. Gotta keep my word. 

GEORGE E. HARBERT sends a greatly appreci­ated letter—I'd like to quote in part: "This has been an interesting year for us. We were in Arizona in March and then decided that we would go to Europe in September. We flew with a group from the Chicago Bar Assn. to Vienna, then strucJc out on our ou-n, primarily to Spain and Portugal. We vbited three wonderful shrines, Lourdes, Fatima and Mount Serrat. The first two are rather well known to the people in this country, but Mount Serrat is the oldest shrine of importance in Spain and is one of my longtime favorites. We had a lovely time and took quite a number of slides. Our feet are itching again, so we expect to leave on a short visit about March 1—not a very spectacular one as we are going to IVashington. D.C, on business and then will drop down to Florida for a week or so." Thanks for your letter, George. I know that the "Ole Timers" will be pleased to learn about your travels. 
Comdr. CALL heard from XEIL J. WHALEX MD. ^'Doc" has been in X*cw York and N'ew Jersey. hit some snow and is content with Detroit's 50 to 60 degrees with no snow and has no desire for Florida. Xever heard from "Doc" how he and Mrs. 
W. enjoyed their West Indies trip last year. 
We have lorae 'ISers birthdays coming up. The first one we have record of is JOHN* A. LEMMER, Jan. 23. Knou' of none in February. March there is HARRY M. BRADY, the 3rd, and on the 27th, 
E. if. ST.ARRETT. April 6, GEORGE E. H.AR­BERT; the 9th. JOHX J. VOELKERS; 2Ist. COMDR. CHARLES W. CALL; 28th, ALLEN W. 
Kotre Dame Alumnus^ July-August, 1965 -43 
FRITZSCHE; 22nd, WM. J- NOONAN. May 24, REV. GEO. HOLDERITH CSC. If we have missed mentioning your birthday it is because same is mis^ns from JOHN LAUGHLIN'S alumni records. Why not drop him a line and fill him in? John really would appreciate your doing so. Also ivould like to know about your family—number of children, grandchildren, great grandchildren ? ? ? Got some dope on this guy LAMBERT Q. SENG—to wit: "Marie (my wife) and I Iwve four children—two boys, two giris. Our four total 67 years of Catholic education—each married and each has given us a giandchild—total 12, eight bo>-s, four girls. Enlisted in *17, commissioned in Artillerv*. Took ART BERG* MAN'S bunk—after he finished class at the Field. WW-2 ser\'ed in Na\7. Expect to lunch with George and Big Frank some day soon. Last lime I saw GBW was when he spiked my foot in the liandicap mile and *ROCK' took my hide off for stepping off the track." (Don't remember—can*t prove it by me. GBW.) 
COMDR. CALL reporu. "Our son CHAS. W. 

GALL JR., pres. Ward Foods Inc, and family arc 
visiting lu." Hope that when they leave FR. C, J. 
WILLIAMS wll be able to visit the Comdr. Know 
that he missed out last year, bat I kno\v that the 
H-elcome sign still remains. 
Phone rang in January, and it -ivas JOHN J. 

VOELKERS. He had a guest and I was most pleased 
to hear WILLIAM J, ANDRES, who is taking the 
long w^y back from Mexico as be had not reached 
Rochester, N.Y. Bill states he is liaving a great time 
\-isiting family and friends. Good luck, Bill. Up 
comes word about South Chicago's King of the 
Poles. We quote—"It's R>-dzcwki for the 23rd year. 
FRANK X, RYD2EWSKI, 8355 Burle>-, has been 
elected president of the Holy Name Society of St. 
Michael's parish, 8237 South Shore Dr., for the 
23rd straight year, R>-dzcwski, ouTier of a real estate 
and insurance office, is a former Alt-American at 
Notre Dame and ex-Iincman of the Chicago Bears." 
His Sorin Hall Subway roommates, WALTER 
MILLER and GBW, arc mlghtj- proud about the 
"Big Pole." 
Got a card from Texas BILL GR.ADY with an enclosed dipping from the Dallas Morning News— "Poor Larry's Almanack." Quote: "Successful >-oung Dallas lawyer WILLIAM LANCASTER SMITH has been elected national president of the Notre Dame Alumni Assodation. LANK SMITH is in mold of a Notre Dame man; father of 8 children, one of whom won't attend N.D. for her unfortunate luck of being bom a girl. Smallest man on tlic ND team during those postwar years when the Irish won 39 in a row, the Dallas man has an agate line in the all-time ND record book. There with the likes of PAUL HORNUNG (most >-ards gained) R.\LPH GUGLIELMI (most completed passes) and GUS DORAIS (most field goals scored) is this one: highest average per punt return—LANCASTER SMITH '48, 31.4 >-ards on five returns for 157 yards." There's lots more—but along come's BILL GRADY, adding the following, "The cndoscd will give you a good picttu-e of the new .Alumni Assn. president. He is a real Notre Damer, and if the country was searched a better one could not be found. Have known him ever since he came to Dallas; he is really a wonderful chap lo>-al to School —^a friend to be treasured and a gentleman. Looking for^'ard to June, the Good Lord willing, and with the excuse that we have a daughter, son-in-law and three grandchildren with another in tlie hanger, what better excuse for taking that stroll to the campus?" 
Sorry to report in part from the letter of JAMES 

E. ARMSTRONG, Alumni Sccrctarj-, to the widow of FRANK L. CULLINAN: "This is the occasion on which faith p3>'s us its richest dividend on the in­vestment of our understanding of God and His will. A Mass uill be offered on Feb, 6 in memory of your husband. Many alumni will add many prayers and Masses as they share the sad news." Comdr. Call no doubt will arrange for proper ceremonies in memory of our classmates Avho liavc passed away at our GOLDEN JUBILEE—1968. 
Mighty pleased to hear from JOH.N A. LEMMER, who wrote: *'Phyllis and I are planning to leave for Hawaii early in February. We have had a milder winter than you have had in Chi. Escanaba really is the Riviera of the North, I had the same operation that the Duke of W, had in October. One of our 
H.S. grads is a specialist surgeon in this field, and he did an excdicnt job." We *18ers arc pleased to hear the good news and hope that Phyllis and John have a most enjoj-able time in Hawaii. Send us a card, John. 
SHERWOOD DIXON LL.B sent us a most in­teresting and appredated letter. It is being passed around for some of you to read and enjoy aho. In this letter Sherwood refers to BILL BRADBURY LL,B '16, FRANK M. KIRKLANT) LL.B '17 (the 
CLASS OF '28 members had a small and informal reunion this past winter in Florida. Enjoying the Sunshine State are (left to right) F. X "Jim" O'Brien, Frank Afeyer, George Coury and George Leppig. 
hurdler), JOHN URBAN RILEY Ph. B. Joum, '17 (tlie actor), CARLETON BEH Ph.B, n7 (monogram track man), JAMES L. SWEENEY '17. RAY HUMPHRIES and CHARLES GEORGE CORCO­RAN CE '17, 
I quote in part from Dixon's letter. *'We have 
these country bankers and mone\* lenders practicing 
law on the *'do-it-yourself" basis—sometimes prac­
ticing a little extortion on the side. When the>* lose 
$100.00 they wail like banshees. That ts a sound you 
would not recognize as you never heard the keening 
at a real old fashioned wake. You were merely 
exposed to the Irish for four years; none of you 
have tlie blood of kings in your vdns. And it's 
rather a pit>*, really, as you are prett>* good felloxx-s 
othcn*ise. Up in this area where com runs about 125 
bushels to the acre our farm bankruptcies often run 
high as three or four chattel mortgages to the hog. 

You would die laughing watching a couple of 
Pennsjivanla Dutch Shylocks during trial of a case 
to decide w*hidi of them has the prior lien on 

$300.00 worth of HvestodE. A cliattd on livestock 
follows through on the increase ex'en unto the third 

generation, but a sale contract or other form of 
sccurio' does not. One j-oung tenant farmer up near 
Mt. Carroll decided to go for fancy hogs in a big 
\\-ay, so he borrowed money here and there, giWng 
such security as was demanded, and bought about 
twenty pedigreed sows. Each had about a dozen 
spring pigs and a dozen fall pigs before he went 
bankrupt; something like four hundred. One creditor 
was all smiles and counting the money in advance. 
But a young lawyer from Morrison came up to 
Frecport for trial, representing a dient who turned 
out to liavc a \-alid cliattd mortgage on the sows, .And of course that gave him first Hen on their progeny. To haul them back to Morrison he needed a trudc column long enough to move a battalion of infantr>% fully equipped. Those are the kind of affairs that preser\'e my interest in life. If you are basking In the sunshine at St. Petersburg ^-ou can have it, I have more fun here. Our oldest son HENRY (ND-LL.B) was dected State's Attorney with a slight assist bom LBJ. He was the fourth Democrat to win a local office since the county s%«mg in behind Lincoln on the slavery issue in 1860." SHERWOOD condudes his letter adding this: "P.S. I hope the Lord allou-s me to live long enough to go salmon fishing with FRANK KIRKLAND again." 
Now up pops WILLIAM E. BRADBURY LL.B '16 ^ending me a copy of the letter which he wrote SHERWOOD DIXON, And I quote: "Thank >-ou sincerely for the copy of the letter you wrote GW. It truly b a masterpiece, and I know George will enjoy it very much. You refer to your son as State's Attorney, which makes me think of my brother STAN LL,B '23, who has been State's Attorney five terms in this county and prior to him no one wras ever S.A. over two terms. And wc arc Democrats (that's because Bill's Dad was a D.) and this is a strong Republican county, so they do like Stan, For tlic last election the Republicans had no candidate to oppose him. Your (SHERWOOD) referring to JOHN URBAN RILEY brings back memories. As I remember one of the priests in Sorin Hall in I9I6 came in my room and asked me if John Urban Riley's folks in Boston were very wealthy, and I said, "Father, I do not know for I am from Robinson, down in the sticks of Southern Illinois," Father went on to say that Riley was a puzzle to 
him as he always dressed as a millionaire and when 
he went downtown to cat he always ate in the most 
cxpcnnve and best places and tried to get acquainted 
with the girls from very wealthy families in South 
Bend, . . . John was never with us, but if you would 
go into the Oliver Hotd dining room j-ou would sec 
John. I had a girl in Niles—had a pass from ND 
(that's one time I did not cover up for BILL and 
sleep in his bed)—and went over on the interurban 
and was bringing GIad)3 Forlcr and her mother to 
3 movie. Waiting at the station was John and he 
came up to me in the most distinguished Boston 
brogue: 'Brad, you know I am over here on a 
little weekend party and my evening clothes were 
to come o\'er on the interurban, and if they don't 
come, I don't know what I will do.* And I said 
nonchalantly before my girl and her mother: 
'Evening dothcs! Pajamas, you mean, John?* I 
thought my girl and her mother would not quit 
laughing. As I remember, John first 'got in' ^rith 
Kathy Oliver. Understand it broke up and he married 
a Mary White from Niles. As to CHARLIE 
CORCORAN, he came in my office a few years 
back when the State was putting up stop signs in 
our City of Robinson, III. Saw CARLETON BEH 
at the 1917 Reunion and we had quite a talk. 
Carleton sent mc a most beautiful Christmas card 
which I have liad framed. He also told me he had 
interests in oil or was representing oil concerns near 
Mt. Carmel, 111,, and when he went through he 
would stop off to see mc. He probably never made 
the trip, but GW %isited him and said he was a big 
success in this life and a wonderful fellow." Quoting 
Bill: "The only salary* I ever drew in my life was 
as a second lieutenant in World War I." Hey, hey, 
don't worry, you'll never have to pass the hat for 
Bill, as it is my opinion that not only is the building 
on the Square ou-ned by Bill but the bank also. Bill 
ends his letter to SHERWOOD—asking him about a 
"Colonel Dixon of the Civil War time—who, no 
doubt is some of yoiu- family?" 
"Big Frank" enjoyed Sherwood's letter and re­calls that Dixon was on the football Squad with him, also playing center. 
CHARLIE CALL reports tliat when Adlai Steven­son was Governor SHERWOOD DIXON was Lieu­tenant Governor of Illinois, I'll sign off repeating "DOC" NIGRO'S PS: Salute Cento Ano—meaning Good Health For 100 Years. 
From the Alumni Office: The death of HON, VINCENT GIBLIN in Miami in March prompted much reviewing of his colorful career in the law fay the nation's press. The anecdotes concentrated on tw*o highlights much publicized in the past—his espousal of unpopular causes (particu­larly his brief service as counsel for Mr. Al Caponc) and the blunt manner of speech in the courtroom as a judge which eventually brought about his retire­ment from the bench. The stories sddom went into the personal qualides which underlay this seemingly eccentric bdiavior: fint, a passionate concern for constitutional rights (he represented Mr. Capone only in dvil cases, had no sympathy for his dient's u-ay of life but tried to encourage his religious impulses); secondly, a character compounded of honesty, courage and hatred of h>-pocrisy (his anger was reserved for pompous attorneys or equivocating witnesses). The verdict of men who knew him well is that Vince Giblin didn't know the meaning of mediocrity. We are grateful for the testimony of such as D.AN HILGARTNER '17 and classmate CHARLES 
W. CALL, 
Comdr. Call, as GEORGE WAAGE pointed out, nearly buried the office in correspondence inquiring about the ND application of his grandson Chris Bonwit. Everybody was sworn to secrecy until April, but with intercessors like New York's JOHN BALFE '20, the middle name "Call" and (most importantly) his fine prep record, Chris had nothing to wonr about. 
On a business trip to South America shordy before , his death, the hte great CLYDE BROUSSARD '13 came across a long lost business student of BRO. CYPRIAN. GUILLERMO CROSBY (PO Box 60. Miiaflores, Lima, Peru) has b^en added to the '18 list. 
FRANK CULLINAN, former Chicago steel ex­ecutive, more recently a resident of Fort Lauderdale, Tla.j died back on December 13, 1963, and was buried in Suissville, Pa. This was just learned from his widow, to whom we had sent a "blind" con-^ dolence upon learning recently that Frank had died "several months ago." Belated sympathy to all his ^ survivors. He was remembered, as was VINCE 
GIBLIN, In a yiass oa the campus. 
Finally, thanks to former footballer JOHN VOELKERS for the 1913 Army game lore in the . 50-Ycar Club Column above. What a memory! 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
Theodore G. Radenukcr 
•19 Pern Foundry Go. 
Pent, Ind. 

From the Alumni Office: 
The most frustrating experience for the editors 

and for contributors to these pages is learning, 
months or yean too late and from some impersonal 
source, about a death in the family. TED RADE­
MAKE R had not heard from former classmate 
WALTER SCHMUCKER, and mail from the Alumni 
Office was being returned unclaimed. Finally a 
postal tracer was answered by the Justice of the 
Peace of Balmorhca, Tex., wiio must also scr\*e as 
postmaster and coroner, testifying that Walter died 
of a heart attack at 6;23 pm on August 17, 1963. 
Nobody should have to leave this world unmourned 
for so long by his brothers in Notre Dame. S>'mpathy 
to WaltcrV survivors, wherever they may be; a 
Mass ^ras offered for him in May. Wc hope all his 
classmates will remember him and also remember 
to notify us promptly of any future death of an 
ND man. 
I^ H James H. Ryan 
170 Maybrook Rd. 
Rochester, N.Y. 
The Class of 1920 invites all members in the 

Class of 1919 and the Class of 1921 to join us at 
the reunion as most of their school life at Notre 
Dame was spent with men in the Class of 1920. 
JAMES H. BAILEY, president, PAUL LOOSEN, 

treasurer, JOHN BALFE, WALTER MILLER, 
ALFRED RYAN, HUMPHREY LESLIE, EDW.ARD 
MADIGAN and SHERWOOD DIXON are all con­
tributing toward making this a gathering for all. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Class Secretary JIM RYAN has conducted a 

vigorous personal mail campaign for the 45th. In 
plugging the reunion weekend he not only had the 
help of President JIM BAILEY and GENE 
O'TOOLE in contacting classmates, but also an out­
landcr named GEORGE WAAGE *18, who has been 
putting a lot of people in touch with one another. 
Witness this letter from former Illinois Lieutenant 
Governor SHERWOOD DIXON of DLxon, III., 
repl>-ing to a Waage-inspircd letter from fellow 
lau7er WILLIAM E. BRADBURY of Robinson, 111.: 
"I enjo>xd your letter of March 5, as always, but 

did not need it to recall George Waage's barefoot 
race. With me he ranks ahead of Revere and Sheri­
dan; it \^'as their horses that made them famous. 
"During the fifty years tliat have elapsed since I 

have had the average man's ups and douns. Many 
a time when I was having my downs and ^\•as 
tempted to give up, I utiuld think of him running 
a mile on a sore bare foot and I'd say to mj'self, 
'Dixon, if that damn Skandahoovian kid could do 
it, you can.' So I owe George a good deal for the 
example he set when wc were youngsters. 
''It was an cnnching experience to go to school at Notre Dame, at least In our era. Wc met some we disliked, others who looked promising but faded out later, and of course a few who were no good then or thereafter. On the whole, however, the school attracted young fellows of good family back­grounds from every part of the country and each of us learned some good lessons from the others. Many were just one generation from the old countries. It was about that time when sons of steel mill laborers from around Gar>' began to crou*d the Irish out of the limelight. Now the>* are at the top in all of the learned professions. 
"Perhaps it was remembering that race tliat helped make me so obstinate in my old age." 
Law School classmate M. EDWARD DOR.\N narrouly missed being incapacitated in March when he was involved in an accident as a passenger in a car being driven by Mrs, Doran. Another lady driver was at fault, however, and the Dorans got off with a few bruises. 
•2 1 Dan W. Duffy 
1030 National City £. 6th Bldg. Cleveland, Ohio 44114 

Here is a note I had from CARL SCHUBERT of 6160 East 2nd Avenue, Hialeah, Florida 33012. 
"In the year end issue of 1964 there was a writeup about BERNARD CARNEY. I am wondering if this is BARNEY CARNEY. If it is both Barney and m)'self have the misfortune of being left out of the 1921 Dome. His name brought back many memories of Barney in classes and also in SATC because Barney never could keep in step when marching. Also in organic chem bb he usually got any compound 
JACK CANNON '30, All-Amcrican guard, was elevated to the Football Hall of Fame. In February Hugh Mulligan, Chicago patron saint of generations of Notre Dame athletes, hosted a dinner recognizing Cannon's honor. Among friends attendii^ were (l.-r.) Tom Conley, Bert Metzger, Marty Brill, Jack Elder, Larry MuUhis and host Mulligan, gathered aroimd the guest of honor, center. A delegation from the campus and many other prominent Notre Damers toasted the recognition. 
he made all over himself. He abo stood high in his class studies. The writer for one wishes him a great deal of health and enjoyment in his retirement years. I certainly am enjoxing it in Florida after having taught in the ME department at the U. of Illinois for 34- years.'* 
May I suggest tliat you use this address of Barney Carney and be in touch witli him: 2758 S. Columbia PI., Tulsa 14, Okla. 
I talked by phone to LEO KELLY, JOE BRANDY and CHARLIE D.\VIS. .MI but Davis were on their way to Florida in Ftbruaf>-. 
From the Alumni Office: JOHN E. KENNY, former president of Foster Wheeler Corp., \vas elected chairman and chief executive officer of the refinery-power plant equip­ment manufacturer in .-Xpril after he announced a big profit at the annual meeting in New York. • Congratulations, John. He was also among the distinguished company attending USD Night in New York. A distinguished WW I "retread" from the Class of *17 who got his degree in 1921 retires this year as a professor of mathematics, but ever>'body*s hoping CL.ARENCE (JAKE) KLfNE %vill stay on forever as baseball coach at ND. Another Class of '17 luminary-, JOHN U. (DUKE) RILEY (see '17 notes) wrote DAN DUFFY in February that "my brother, who was a member of your Class at ND, passed away suddenly in Detroit on February 11. "WILFRED J. RILEY ^*^ 65 and, because of three previous heart attacks, spent about six months of the year as a writer-planner for The Jam Handy Organization, of which he was a former ^icc­president. He maintained a permanent home in Mouhonboro, N.H., and the funeral wus in nearby Meredith, N.H., on Monday, Feb. 15, at St. Charles 
Church. 
"In his early years he worked as a reporter and later as assbtant city editor of the Boston Evening Amenean. Later he scr\'ed as drama critic in New York and was editor-in-chief of the theater publica­tions of Billboard Publbhing Co, . . . Sur\'iving arc his wife Mar>' and two sons, Wilfred Jr. and Robert, both ND graduates." 
-22 G. A. "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Rd. No. Rochester, N.Y. 

Two more fine classmates have gone to their reward—FREDERICK "FRITZ" H. BAUMER of Jacksonville, Fla., in hb home city on March 5, 1965, and JOHN B. BRADY who is reported to 
have left this life on January 10, 1964, apparently in his home city of Ashbnd, Ky. In the ]£ ^ year end edition of the ALUMNUS, your secretary reported some nice visits with FRITZ BAUMER in Jackson­ville last July at which time the latter appeared to be in physicil trim. Shortly after graduation Fritz entered the employ of the Big Four Railroad. He resigned to return to his native Florida,' where he entered government service and was in charge of government building projects in several counties. Later he joined the firm of Steward Mellon Co. of Jacksonville, engineering experts in construction and installation of non-wood flooring. He held the position of vice-president in the firm at the time of his death and was highly rated as a church and cdvic leader in Jackson\-iIIe. Possibly some of our Kentucky class* mates can fumbh information in detail on JOHN BRADY, who was a law college graduate. We extend our loving s>'mpathy to widows and relatives of the deceased. The Baumer residential address is: 4731 Blackburn Rd., Jacksonville 10, Fla. The Brady homestead address is 815 23rd St., Ashland, Ky. In your charity, please remember in prayer your deceased classmates, also, their loved ones still on earth. 
Two sons of '22 classmates were elected to office last fall. JOHN R. CORYN BS'51, LL.B'53. oldest son of the JOHN RALPH CORYNs of MoUne, lU., by reason of his election victory is AppeUate Court Judge of the Third Illinois Dbtrict, which embraces 21 northern counties. Judge Coryn will sit at Ottauit. 
«T. P." CARMODY, son of Mrs. STEPHEN E. CARMODY and our beloved deceased classmate of CarlinWUe, HI., was elected State Attorney in his home town and took office on December 7. Our hearty congratulations and best ^vishcs are extendet] to the new office holders, also to their families. 
Additional information regarding the Carmodys is that Ann is living at home, "Chuck" is still teadiing in Charleston, and Mary Jo lives in South Bend— she lias five children. 
The TOM McGABEs of Ehnhuist, HI., were in Baton Rouge at Christmas time listing their son, Tom, who is taking a course in advanced math at LSU. At the same institution is Jim Heneghao, son of PhyllU Heneghan of South Bend and our beloved dassmate, GEORGE HENEGHAN of happy memory. Jim is very busy in his germfree laboratory at the medical center. 
The CHARLES "RED" CROWLEYs of Weston. Mass., and the HE.ARTLEY "HUNK" ANDER­SONS of Wilmette, 111., had some nice viats during the winter season at Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Mrs. Anderson had some serious surgery in the fall, and is making fine recovery pn^rcss. 
FRANK BLOEMER JR. reports he and %vife, Marie, are now happily located in their new home 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 45 
at Ariptta. Fla. 33502, P.O. Box 99. 
Colette Faric>-, daughter of the JOSEPH FARLEYs of La Grange, III., attends Dayton U. Daughter Lucille is married and lives in Waterloo, lou'a. 
DR. DAN SEXTOX of St. Louis reports his oldest daughter was graduated from ManliattanviHc last June and presently is living in New York, A second daughter is a junior at St. Louis U. in education, and a third daughter, Mildred, is a sophomore at St. Mar>-'s, Notre Dame. Son Dan is due to be graduated from high scliool in June. 
Mildred Stuhldreher writes: "Greetings, Kid"— How quickly the Decembers roll around! I do hope tliis has been a good year for you, and that you are \-ery well. TTic Stuhldreher dan continues to grow— 14 grandchildren, and the oldest is seven, Marjorie, our second daughter, and her three vcrj-fine bo\-s came home after the .Alaska earthquake for three montlis. Her husband Bill Tobin is managing editor of the Anchorage Times. It was wonderful to have them here—€r*'en under the conditions obliging them to move—but they were so fortunate." 
\Vc extend our very deep sj-mpathy to all of the Stuhldreher family in the death of H.\RRY STUHLDREHER—fine athlete in his undergraduate da>^, football coack, a real gentleman, a verj- loral ND alumnus and friend. Mildred is the widow of our dear deceased dasonatc, WALTER STUHL­DREHER—brother of HarT>-. 
Here are some new addresses: DR. MICHAEL 

A. KOLCUM, 314 Asalo, K-vukvn Islands, .Valia, Okinawa; and Mrs. HAROLD E. McKEE, North Parkside, Chicago. 
From the .Alumni Office: 
In February A. A. (.AL) SCOTT for^x-ardcd a clipping from a Los Angeles newspaper concerning his friend LAWRENCE T. (BUCK) SH.-\W, former coach of professional football teams, who has joined HyDtt Corp. oS America as special assistant lo the executive vecp for operations of the H>-att House hotel complex. Buck will continue as a consultant to the Georgia-Pacific Corp. container division in San Francisco. H>-att Corp. operates nine hotels, including one in Las Angeles. 
•^ ^ Louis V. Bruggner 1667 Riverside Dr., Apt. A South Bend, Ind. 

From the .Mumni Office: 
The hospitalization of Sccrctarv- LOU BRUGGXER in January- caused much concern among his class­mates, including Chicago's JOHN" C. THORXTOX, who wrote (enclosing a contribution) in February-; 
"You no doubt have heard of Louie Bruggner^s plight .. . and in a letter from ED KREIMER . . . his condition is not one of a slight degree. He could be sidelined for several montlis. I only hope tliat the classmen will remember Louie with a card or a letter, for throughout the years as our Class Secretary I am sure that he furnished us with the most complete and comprehensive information concerning each and every one of us . . . for luj interest was not just centered as a man of 1923 . . . but a dex'Otion and love for all of us." 
Fortunately Lou*s heart condition was slighter ilian originally announced, for he w:as up and at 'cm for the St. Joe Valley UND Night in late .April. He did apprecbtc all the cards and letters, how­ever,^ and perhaps they helped lo steel him for his massive labors in May as president of the South Bend-Mishawaka School Board. Lou liad to handle the much publidzcd teachers' bojxott and arbitrate a dispute between Education Assn. President STEVE KOSANA '58, iL \ '59, and Teadicr^ Federation President GEORGE BULL '62, MA '64. (See "A Fight in the Familv," this issue.) 
REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH CSC w:is much in the news in March, joining hands with Negroes, nuns and ministers in Selma, Ala., and leading a voters' registration march on the courthouse. He was pictured widely in a debate with Selma Public Safety Director Wilson Baker. 
HARRY FLANNERY moderated a recent panel broadcast from Washington, featuring labor reporter TO.M COAfAN '25 and several labor leaders dis­cussing the Taft-Hartley .-Vet. 
'24 
James R. Meehan 301 S. Lafayette Blvd. Soodi Bend, Ind. 

From the Alumni Office: 
Judge THOMAS C. DONOVAN was one of thrrc judges appointed to a special board created in late March in Chicago to c\-aluate damage claims re­sulting from the Our Lady of the Angels school fire 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August^ 
Spotlight Alumnus. 
ALBERT J. TUOHY '31 To Rails from Air and FBI, a Public Eye 

.•\ppointment of .•\lbert Tuohy as director of security for the New York Central Sys­tem was announced in December. Formerly with the aircraft industry', .Al will be re­sponsible for special investigations and for general direction and supen-ision of the railroad's police department. 
Prior to coming to the Central, Mr. Tuohy was director of security for Republic .Aviation Corp. for a period of 14 years. 
.After his AB from Notre Dame the Law College of Fordham he engaged in general law practice from 1934 to 1940, then ser\-ed with the Federal Bureau of Investigation for ten years prior to joining Republic. 
-Al is a former trustee of the Village Board of Wcstbury, N.Y. Professionally he is a member of the New York State Bar .Assn., Society of Former .Agents of the FBI and .American Society of Industrial Secur­ity. He has also seri'cd as chairman of the .•\erospace Industries .Association Industrial Security Committee. College affiliations in­clude the Fordham and ND .•\lumni .•\ssns., the Notre Dame National Varsity Mono­gram Club, the .Advisory Committee for the New York State U. AScT Institute Police Science Program. 
Members of the Nassau Country Club, Mr. and Mrs. Tuohy reside at Center-port, N.Y. .A married son, Brian, received his .AB at ND in 1961, and Da\-id has just completed his junior year in Business .Ad­ministration as a resident of Pangborn Hall. 
in 1958, in which 93 pupils and two nuns died and 72 children were injured. Many of the families of lire \-ictims refused to file suit against the Chicago .Archdiocese. 
I^ C John P. Hurley 2085 Brookdale Rd. Toledo, Ohio 
The .-Mumni Office recently received neu-s of the deaths of tuY> more of our classmates—FRED E. W.^TSON on February 17 and FR.-\NK A. REESE on March 28. Masses irill be said by REV. THOMAS J. O'DONXELL CSC, from the .Alumni .Assodalion. Also class Masses will be said for Fred 

1965 
and Frank. We believe this is our most appropriate expression of condolence on the occasion of the death of a member of our Notre Dame family. Our deepest s^•mpathv to the families of these classmates. 
A short note from WILLIAM SCHOMBERG mentioned he will be on deck June U, 12 and 13 for our reunion. Bill is an architect in Rocky Hill, 
N. J. Bill took the Notre Dame Tour to the Holy Land the spring of 'G4, like VIRG FAG.-\N who took the same trip this year. 
HERMAN CEN'TLIVRE rated a feature article 

in the Fort It'ayrte Journal Gazette headed: "Letter 
To The President—.A One Man Lobby Receives Top Level Attention." Looks like Herm helped bring about a reduction of our income taxes. Henn will be at the Reunion to tell you how, after six years of writing to three prestdcnts, he finally got M>roe recognition. 
Whether it is taxes, football or your grandchildren, there will be plenty of catching up to do, so be sure to be on the Campus for our 40l\\—^June II, 12 and 13. Be there for our Class Dinner on Friday evening. 
News headlines January- 27—**'AND NOW THERE ARE THREE!" The entire Class learned about the death of HARRY A STUHLDREHER at the simc time. There is no question that Harr>' was the best known member of our Class and it was ncv\-s to the whole nation. We all knew him as our classmate and friend and we will miss him very nmch. Harry's wife and wonderful family have our heartfelt s>Tnpathy, and wt will remember him in our prayers. 
\ few da>-s after hearing about Harr>-, I got word in early February- of the death of REUBEN F. MOMSEN. Reub died on Jan. 23. Mrs. Momsen has our deepest 5>-mpathy. A Class Mass will be said for Reuben and Han^* and their names will be added to our memorial card. So let us continue to pray for each other. 
Regarding the Class Masses—don't forget to mail HANK IVURZER (Blackliauk Hotel—Daveniwrl, Iowa) a check to help build up that fund. 
The letter you received from JIM .ARMSTRONG should in itself make our 40th reunion a success. Be sure to be on the campus Friday. June II, Saturday, June 12 and Sunday, June 13. 
From the Alumm Office: This issue's obituaries Ibt a few additions to the deatlis mentioned by JOHN HURLEY above. Lawyer FREDERICK E. WATSON died Feb. 17 in Muncic, Ind., and his death was mourned editorially by the Muncie Star, Fred's widow wrote that he u"as extremely devoted to the University and had planned to attend the reunion. S>*mpathy to her and to HOWARD J. SPE.N'CER on the death of his mother in Chicago in .April. In March the Associated Press quoted Cleveland's DON MILLER extensively on his claim that the Four Horsemen, smalt as the>- were, tvould still make a name in college football today. Don should know. As one of the five Miller brothers (all of whom were expected on campus for the reunions], he was part of ND's greatest athletic tradition. .As Rocknc's greatest open field runner (although he claims the late HARRY STUHLDREHER u-as the greatest ball player), he compiled rushing \-ardagc that still stands in the Irbh record book. With all the talk of deatlis, it's nice to be able' to resurrect one classmate, not for the Class but for the public. BERNIE LIVERGOOD, substitute half­back on the 1924 Rose Boul team and now an insurance comultant in Decatur, III., %v'as errone­ously listed as deceased under a picture of the team in the sports section of the last full Issue. Bemie wrote Sccrctar>' Hurley that the report liad him a little confused, especially since he was listed on a committee on page 37. "I liave an adrantage in that I uill be able to benefit from my contribution to HANK WURZER," Bcmic admitted. He also wrote to chide the South Bend Tribune, source of the "exaggeration," and Sports Editor JOE DOYLE '30 responded with a full column devoted to Bernie's return. 
From Santa Barbara, Calif., in March, H.ARRY McGUIRE sent a clipping from Dublin's Irish Times with a caption headed *'Ave, Salve" ac­companying a photo of No. 4 Ely Place, Dublin: "The picture of the plaque to George Moore on the house at 4 Ely Place, where much of *.Ave, Salve, Vale* is set, is a tribute at once to Lady Beatrice Glena\'y who designed it and to Harry McGuire of Denver, Colo., who was the first to suggest it and who \\*as also a generous contributor to its realization. Mr. McGuire, a member of a mine-owning and publishing family in Colorado, graduated from Har\-ard and Oxford, and for many years edited art magazines in New York. 
"The McGuire family claims descent from the Maguires of Fermanagh who fought with O'Neill's annies in the Elizabethan wars. Harrv* McGuirc. now 65. has been retired for many years and txrcupies himself with civic affairs as a councitman. with his books and with his art collection, winch includes a number of rare Hogarth etchings." 
Harr>' wrote, " I send you the above to show you that the old boy is stilt getting around and kicking. It also demonstrates that to a Dubliner being educated at Notre Dame and Yale is the same as 

•7 being educated at 'Har\-ard and Oxford.* Sic transit 
gloria. Sec you in June." j^ Pullman Inc. recently announced that JOHX W. 
•^ SC.-\LLAN' will assume the prcsidencj' of Trail­inobile Div. while continuing as president of the Pullman-Standard Div., which makes railroad cars. 
BRO. DAMIEX DAELE CSC (NfA '37) u-as the subject of a recent profile in Our Sunday Visitor for having completed 10,000 rosaries, fabricating them of such materi.ils as silver and pearls, while 

— teaching at South Bend's St. Joseph High. GEORGE F. DRISCOLL w^ n-ccntly named a 
^ full professor of civil engineering at the U. of Day inn. 
•n £ Frank A. Dcitlc 1763 Kessler Blvd. South Bend, Ind. 

Class President RUDY GOEl»FRICH, stalf ex­ecutive for the director of engineering of llic Bcndix Products Automotive Division, has been named chairman of a committee of the American Ordnance .'Vssn. to study the nation's current and future needs in militaty vehicles. He was appointed by the execu­tive engineer of General Motors' mWltary vehicles division, also tactical vehicles chairman for AO.-\, who remarked that the assignment would call on Rudy's *'Iong experience in militar>- vehicle engi­neering as well as his wide acquaintance with industry' research and development." Chairman Goepfrich, a South Bend native, joined Bendix in 1927 as a brake development engineer. He has long been active in the Society of Automotive Engineers and holds more than 100 patents for inventions related principally to automotive brakes and brake 
systems. Speaking of tactical vehicles, .\RT HALEY (with assistant JIM GIBBONS '53) is handling most of the tactics and strateg>- for the College of Science Centennial, but Art continues to function for the Class, arranging perpetual Masses for departed members. 
From the .•Uumni Office: The Chicago Tribune, in a recent series on prominent Republicans in the Illinois Legislature^ profiled the highly elastic ARTHUR J. BIDWELL, who u-as thrown out of the Illinois Senate at the end of the 1935 session but bounced back so hard that he is now the 5er\'icc senior of his 57 col­leagues. After losing out in a flimsily contested election he became a symbol of GOP resistance and has won by big pluralities ever since. Art was originally one of 13 Republican members but now b a veteran among 33. He was president pro tem or majority leader for 10 years—a record—before bowing out of the job, but he remains chairman of the senate executive committee and the GOP suburban organization which he founded. .\ mem­ber and former president of the National Confer­ence of Legislatix'e Leaders, lie was one of the organizers of the Young Republicans in the Thirties. His father was a GOP leader before the turn of the centur>- and founded the Pacific Co., road building firm which Art still runs. Art also launched Chicago Stationers Inc., an office supply company, in 1929. He is one of the few non­practicing graduates of the XD Lau-School. Sen. Bidwell has an easy manner but seldom sounds off on the Senate floor, preferring the quiet organizing approach. One son, Xeal, is married and lives near his dad in River Forest. Another, Father John, teaches at St. Mary's College, Winona, Minn. Art and Mrs. Bidwell frequently visit with a married daughter in Ft. Lauderdale. Fla. 
I^ n Clarence J. Ruddy ^ / 32 S. River Street Aurora, HI. 

From the Alumni Office: Secrelar>- CLARENCE RUDDY has received little news of classmates recently but has been busy with his law practice, his political chairmanship and going to bat (not always successfully but alway-s with spirit) for ihc sons of friends and colleagues . at the University placement. His son Phil '63 is about to begin his last year at the ND Law School 
Spotlight Alumnus • •. 
GERARD J. SMITH 26 Denver's Darling, a Career Clubber 
Proudly nominated as Notre Dame Man 
of the Year 1965 by the ND Club of Den­
ver, Colo., on UND Night May 15, Gcrr>' 
Smith is one of that rare group that can 
be called "professional" alumni in the finest 
sense of the word. Although active and 
exemplary in business, family, religious and 
civic life, he has made alumni organization 

almost a second career — as an active 
member of several alumni clubs, president 
of two and an indefatigable officer of a 
third for nearly 15 years. 
Matriculating from Aquinas Institute, 

Rochester, N.Y., and taking an AB at ND, 
Gerry returned to the homestead with in­
terludes in Buffalo managing advertising 
and sales promotion for various manufac­
turers and printers. He joined or organ­
ized ND Clubs wherever he was, ser\-ing as 
Rochester's secretar>' in 1929 and president 
in 1930. Appropriately enough. Alumni 
Secretary Jim Armstrong was an attendant 
when Gerr>' married Katherine Alexandra 
King of Joplin, Mo., in the Log Chapel on 
Nov. 29, 1934. 
In 1936 Gerry was appointed to the 

president's field staff as a special agent of 
Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance and has 
ser\'ed Phoeni.x as agent, super\'isor and 
and is engaged to a St. Afar>''s girl \<ho has been working at the famous Fides religious publishing house on the ND campus. 
Louis F. Buckley 
-28 
68-10 108th St Forest HHls, N.Y. 

.•VNTHON*^' F. BENNING died on September 1, 1964, after he sufTcred a heart seizure while wait­ing for a physical examination in the doctor's office. Anthony wtis assistant director of research for the duPont Co. Laboratories at tlieir Deep Water, N.J., plant. He was single. Anthony wrote extensively in chemical journals. He returned for our 30-year reunion. 
REUBEN FRED MO.MSEN died on January 23, 1965, following a heart attack. He lud been in the wholesale hardware business in El Paso^ Tex., where he u'as vice-president and treasurer of the Momscn, Dunnegan^ R)*an Co. He had at'.ended prep school 
manager for the past 29 years. The Smiths moved quite a bit at first, to Pittsford, N.Y., Dearborn and Detroit, Mich., Elmhurst, L.L, and the home office in Hartford, Conn.; but they settled for a decade in Katherine's native Missouri, where GcTty was super\*isor, then manager of the Kan­sas City office, a leader of Benedictine Re­treats at Conception Abbey and, ineWtably, president of the Notre Dame Club. 
Transferred to Denver in 1950 as asso­ciate manager of the Phoenix agency, Gerry has been agency leader every year since 1956, National Quality Award win­ner for eight consecutive years and was certified last year with the Million Dollar Round Table; recipient oi the Distinguished Life Underwriter Award (co-sponsored by the Denver US National Bank and the General Agents & Managers Assn.) in 1960-61-62, and the Distinguished Sales­man's Award (sponsored by the Denver Sales & Marketing Executives) in 1962­63-64. 
Gerry hasn't slighted the Denver Club in 

spite of all this business actiWty. He has 
been elected to scr\'e on the Board of Direc­
tors seven times since 1950; was treasurer 
twice, vice-president once; and, reportedly, 
was recommended twice as president but 
declined the nomination in favor of a 
younger man. Having ser\'ed five years as 
scholarship chairman and concurrently as . 
Foundation chairman for Challenge I, he 
expects to deliver twice Denver's quota in 
Challenge II. He also shines in church and 

charitable activities: currently chairman of 
St. Vincent De Paul at Christ the King 
parish, he is secretary of the Denver Coun­
cil; vice-chairman of the Archbishop's De­velopment Fund, he also served two years as district governor of the Serra Club and is a leader of Denver's intcrfaith retreat movement uniting Protestants, Catholics and Jews. 
The Smiths' children are pretty well grown: Don is 26, a graduate of Colorado State College and lives in Billings, Mont.; Stephanie is 19 and a sophomore at Web­ster College near St. Louis. Gerry's older brother J. (for Joseph) Clovis '15, MA '17, was a champion debater and notable Scholastic editor whose career on the ND faculty was cut short by death in World War I. Like Clovis he ser\-ed on campus publications and loves reading, but a simi­lar love for camping and outdoor sports makes Colorado a perfect home. 
at Notre Dame in 1921. He received his PhB in Commerce in 1925 and his JD in 1928. Reuben is survived by his wife. He was active in community affairs, including the National Conference of Chris­tians and Jews. Reuben returned for our 30-, 25­and 10-year reunions. 
Arrangements wci*c made by our treasurer for Masses for ^(ess^s. Bcnning and ^fomscn. 
FR. JIM McSHANE SJ u-as in the States for some time this year while hts mother was ill. He sent me a picture of GEORGE MURRIN '26, who died a year ago in Texas. Father Jim advised me of the death of BILL KEDWIN's sister, Catherine. 
I talked to CHARLIE SHELANSKY recently. He is with the New York State Dcpt. of .-\udit and Control and lives on Long Island. Charlie lias three children and is now a grandfather. 
F. X. JAMES O'BRIEN, \Aio is with Goodbody and Co. in Miami, sent me a copy of the March 28th issue of the Miami AVa-j which carried a pic­ture wtht a caption abouut "Golden'' GEORGE COURY, who is board cliainnan of the Intcr-
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 47 
American Bank of Miami. George proposed that the 
US no longer guarantee the price of gold, in order 
to end the gold drain. 
JIM O'BRIEX also sent a group picture of 
GEORGE COURY, FItAXCIS .\fEYER, GEORGE 
LIPPIG and himself taken at a party in Miami 
last winter. Jim planned a trip to Japan tlils 
stmimcr. 
VINCE CARXEY raited us this spring. He 
stopped to sec ART GLEASOX, 'who is fine and 
working in the legal and insurance Held \rith his 
son in Ohio. 
We had a good get-together witli BERNIE 
GARBER and JOH.V ANTUS. John reports that 
FRANK ZAPPONE has retired in Spokane, Wash. 
LEO WALSH of Grand Rapids, Mich., in addi­
tion to being chainnan of the Stx^l Welfare Dept. 
of the Michigan Catholic Conference, has been a 
member of the ^ficIlisan Labor ^fcdiation Board 
for nine years. Leo does considerable labor arbi­
tration work. He is on the arbitration panels of the 
Federal Afcdiation and Concilialion Scm'cc and the 
American Arbitration Assn. Leo attended the cere­
monies when AL D.WIS ^^•as made a Knight of St. 
Gregory by Pope Paul. 
DR. ANDY BOYLE, assistant dean in the Fresh­
man Year of Studies a tXolre Dame, had a daugh­
ter graduate from St. >rar>''s this year. He lias a 
son in high school. 
JOHX RICKORD, who is still with Annour Co., 
In Chicago, has nine grandchildren. 
JOHX FORGE is looking forward to retirement 
in 1968 after 40 years with Goodyear Tire and 
Rubber Co. If I read John's Icltcr correctly he 
lias twent>* grandchildren and six children, one of 
whom is a nun. FRANK DUQUETTE is still with 
General Electric Co. in New York. He has a son 

at Dartmouth College. BILL O'NEILL is president 
of tlie Lcascu-ay Transportation Corp. in Cleveland 
and chairman of the board of Leascway Interconti­
nental. Bill has sei*en grandchildren and ftve chil­
dren. GEORGE SCHEUER Is still with the South 
Bend Tribune and continues his work as cliairman 
of Deaner}* Catholic Committee on Scouting. George 
has two sons at Purdue. SWEDE SCHROEDER 

continues to practice law in Detroit Lakes, Minn. 
He attended the dedication of die ncvv library at 
Notre Dame. Swede has nine grandchildren. 
FR. ANDY MULREANY CSC, the Texas Padre, 

reports from St. Joseph's Church in Klllecn, Tex., 
that LARRY WINGERTER visited him recendy. 
I saw JOHN IGOE on the Notre Dame Campus 

in May. He is now in the brokerage business in 
Columbus, O. John has two sons at Notre Dame. 
He mentioned tliat NORB SEIDENSTICKER had 
retired. 
DICK QUINL.\N attended the third annual 

Notre Dame International Convention in the Ba­
hamas early in May. 
BILLY WOOD sent me a photo lie Iiad taken from die spire of Sacred Heart Church in 1923. The view has changed considerably in 42 years. Billy is practicing law in Santa Fc, X.NL He mendoned with regret the deaths of JOHN P. "CHUNK" MURRIX and RUBE MO.MSEX. 
My Chicago correspondent, BILL DW\'ER, re­ports the following *28 men as Iia\-ing attended the UND Night assemblage in Chicago: JOE GRIF­FIN, ED McSWEENEY, RAY MULLIGAN. ED RAFTER, BOB TROTTER, BOB RIGNEY, DICK PHELAN, RAY LUSSON, PHIL QUIN.X, CHAR­LIE SCHUESSLER. BOB WINTERS. HOWARD PHALLN, GEORGE McLAUGHLIN, JOE DORAN, JOHN RICKFORD, BILL MURPHY and BILL DWYER. BILL DWYER is vice-president of Ray­mond G. Hudson and .-Vssociatcs, Inc., in advertis­ing merchandising. 
From die Alumni Office; From Dujaric Hall BRO. JOHN LAVELLE CSC reported that ALBERT FRA.NCIS D.WIS was in­vested in the Knights of St. Gregorj- the Great on Feb. 16, 1965, at St. Andrew's Cathedral, Grand Rapids, Mich., Most Rev. Allen J. Babcock, Bishop of Grand Rapids, ofHciating for Pope Paul. FR. MARK FITZGERALD CSC had officials of the Chamber of Commerce, IS:M Electric, the AFL-CIO and the Building Trades Council, as well as Assistant Dean JOHN BRODERICK of the Law School, at his annual Union-Management Confer­ence on the campus this year. Clippings continue to pour in with cxtrax-agant praise from Ohio newspapers since the publication of the 1964 Annual Report of the Ohio Turnpike Commission under JAMES W. SHOCKNESSY. The editorials have sucli starUing headlines as "Don't Cut Pike Tolls" and "We Need More Like Him" (meaning Jim). The rcportj aside irom being a record of fantastic success, is a beautifully designed and executed brochure. 
48 Notre Dame Alumnus^ July-August^ 
Spotlight Alumnus... 
JOHN D. VOSS '30, LL.B. '32 Appointment Confinned by Election 
John Voss had been appointed judge of 
Branch 1 of Walworth County Court, Elk-
horn, Wis., last Oct. I, and on .-^pril 6 he 
w'as elected by a substantial majority to a 
full six-year term for the same position. 
John vizs born near Elkhom and at­tended public schools there. Following his graduation from Notre Dame he passed the Wisconsin Bar examination. The time being the depression years and therefore poor years to start a law practice, he secured cmplo>Tnent in the United States Secret Ser\'ice, which culminated in his appoint­ment as agent in charge of the Milwaukee office for five years. During this period John often ser\-ed on the presidential detail. 
During World War II John was a civil­ian employee of Army Air Forces Intelli­gence, one and one-half years of which were spent in charge of the office at South Bend. 
Following the war John returned to pri­\-ate practice in Elkhom, and during his 18 years in such practice ser\xd eight years on the Public School Board; was Grand Knight of Council No. 3464 and maintained membership in Bishop Henni General As­sembly, Fourth Degree Knights of Colum­bus; was a delegate to two National Demo­cratic Conventions and has ser\'ed as presi­dent of his local Bar .Association. 
John is married, has two adult daughters and two grandchildren. 
JOSEPH R. SIMOXIN has retired as chief me­chanical design engineer for Detroit Edison after 36 years with the company. Joe and his wife Julia have a son, John, and two married daugh­ters—plus nine grandchildren. 

One of the latest publications by Secretary LOU BUCKLEY is a thoughtful article on "Automation; ^^aster or Sen-ant?" in the April issue of Catholic Mindf the Jesuit publication from America Press. 
•29 
Larry Staudcr Encmccrmg BIdg. Notre Dame, Ind. 

We have tliis letter from Class President JOE LENIHAN: "LARRY STAXHJER, our Class Sec­retary, was in New York in March for an elec­
1965 
trical engineering conference. While he was here we had a very pleasant luncheon one day with JOE FRIEL, and Lairy brought us up to date on campus and class information. Next week I expect to have a wi t with TETE" PETERSCHMIDT, who has ad\*iscd me he will be in New York on business for his company. Pete is treasurer of American Desk Mfg. Co. of Temple, Tex., and w-as with us at our 33th Reunion last year. 
FOOTBALL REUNION SATURDAY. OCTOBER 2, 1965 NORTHWESTERN « . NOTRE DAME 
Details will be announced in a special mailing during the summer. 

"For these many years the Class of '29 has had a reunion after one of the fall games. Larry Stauder and his \^'ife have been instrumental in helping set up local arrangements, and we are all indebted to them. In order that they might make some prcliminar>* plans, it is requested that class members give some indication now to Larry as to whether or not they may be able to make the reunion tliis year for the Northwestern game. This game comes early in October when the weather is good and driving more pleasant than later on in November. As this is the first home game- of the 1965 Season and with a rival who was ver>' much a rival in our day, it should pro­vide great interest to all Class members." 
Dolores and JOE LENIHAN were busy in late 

March with the final details of furnishing a new 
home, located only a few blocks from their pre­
vious home in Rumson, N.J. Your secretar>- en­
joyed his private tour of the Seagram Building, 
3757 Park Ave. You may recall having read of 
some of its features in the magazines of the past 
few years. 
The Class of '28, according to BERNIE GARBER, is inquiring of his Class whether they have plans to see the October 9 Army game in New York. Shotdd enough of them suggest an after-game get-together it will be publicized. The '29ers are welcome to submit their suggestions to him. His address is 336 Chcrr>- St., Bedford Hills, N.Y. TJie Hotel Commodore is actively encouraging Notre Dame alumni and class groups to use their facilities that weekend. The fact that the game will be played at night complicates the planning of social activities. 
The 34th Annual Communion Breakfast honorins Coach KNUTE ROCKNE was held on the campus on March 28. JIM ARMSTRONG was toastmaster: JACK CANNON '30, who was recently inducted into the Football Hall of Fame, was principal speaker. Jack gave a sincere and informative ac­count of his experiences at Notre Dame. His brother DAN CANNON accompanied him. Almost 200 w*ere in attendance; many were sons of alumni. \Vhilc all enjoyed his tribute to Rock and to his teammates, it was a special treat for those who knew TED TWOMEY, JACK ELDER, MANN'^' VEZIE, TIM MOYNIHAN, BUD BORRINGER and all the rest. 
Jack finished his talk with his recollections of the Army game of 1929. That was the 7 to 0 battle on an ice covered field decided by JACK ELDER's interception of a Cagel pass that was intended for Morrell. Jack ran the interception about seventy >'ards for a touclidown. It was Cannon who rushed Cagcl on that play. Jack gave full credit to TED TWOMEY and others in and behind the line for making possible tlie blitzing and stunting that helped him to a (deserved) place in the Football Hall of Fame. Jack included his version of Rockne's pep-talk before that game. It is alumni like the Cannons w*ho help keep this traditional Communion Breakfast the highlight of the St. Joseph Valley Club year. 
JACK CANNON told of arriving at PAT CAN­NY'S equipment window near the end of the line of freshmen. His misfit equipment and brother Dan's two left shoes might have seemed an ex­aggeration to the sons of alumni and the young alumni present but found s>'mpathetic ears from those of the Rockne era. 
We have this letter from JIM KENNEDY: "Dear Larry: For the *29crs who might be inter­ested in 3 fellow classmate boasting a little, the new heavyweight champion of the Bengal Bouts is my son Bob Kennedy. Some day recall his father's competiuon in those same Bengal Bouts with PAT CANNY in the spring of 1926, when Pat retained his middleweight title but had to withdraw from further competition while a broken jaw knit to-. gether again. 
"An interesting side angle on the recent bout was that Albert L. Doyle was one of the judges. He had been my second when I /ought Pat . . . but he didn't ha%'c to make a close decision. Bob outfought his opponent so thoroughly that had the rounds been of the old three-minute duration* the referee would have had to terminate the fight be/ore the end of three rounds. Proud papa, Jim." 
ORSON DAUSMAN of Indiana Bell Telephone, Indianapolis, was a campus xisitor recently. It ^vas just a bit early to combine business with golf. 

•*> Dorothy Plunkett (Mrs. Don) reports that son  TERRY PLUNKETT has completed his course and examination requirements for his PhD. He has been an English major at the U. of Minnesota. Terry will be a teacher at Manhattanville College in the fall. ' At our 25th Class Reunion and OR other occasions Terry was an efficient and enthusi­astic worker for us. His sister Colccn is married and lives in the Pittsburgh area. Tlie rcadcis of the lead editorial of the Chicago Tribune of Fcbruar>' 23, 1965, titled "The Severest Critics of the Supreme Court" noted that Prof. PAUL C. BARTHOLOMEW'S aru'cle in the Na­tional Review was acknowledged as their principal source of information. The harshest criticism has come in dissents of its members. Numerous exam­ples are cited and documented. Your sccretar>-'s son Larry U had the good fortune of being a student in Paul's class taught to ^D juniors last fall. 
Inevitably we come to the obituar>' paragraph of the column. We extend our svmpathy to Mrs. GEORGE L. HOUSLEY, 4801 Central Ave., In­
^ dianapolis, Ind., the widow of GEORGE HOUS­LEY LLB '29; and to Mr. Edward J. Carey, San Pedro, Calif., son of PAUL T. CAREY '29, who died December 17, \96i; also to FATHER CHRIS­TOPHER OTOOLE CSC, who returned to Michi­gan for the funeral of his brother. Rrnicmbcr the deceased in your prayers. 
From the Alumni Ofiice: DR. PAUL C. BARTHOLOMEW, some of whose recent honors are h'sted above, had a busy spring. He was a speaker at the spring conference of the Historians of the Metropolitan Area of Chicago in May. He spoke on the US Supreme Court at St. Xaner College. Also in May he was a speaker at the Ilth annual National Institute on Police and Community Relations, held at the Kellogg Cen­ter of Michigan State U. He discussed "The Con­stitution and the Citizen." 
JAMES W. KNOBLOCK, secretary-treasurer of South Bend Supply Co., has purchased the South Bend and Elkhart offices of FadcII Personnel Ser­vice. Jim announced that the name of the South Bend-EIkhart operation would be changed to Kc>--Fadell Personnel Sen-ice, 
'3 0 ^^"^ Plunkett 
O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Ind. 

From llic Alumni OfHcc: 
The dcction of EDWARD CHARLES DUFFY as a director of the Long Island Trust Co. was announced in late March. A senior vice-president of Long Island Lighting Co., which he joined in 1942 as a mechanical engineer, he's active in civic affairs and a Prime Movers Award winner of the AS.ME. 
FR. EDW.^RD HESTOX CSC, procurator general of the Congregation in Rome and English language press ofiicer for the Ecumenical Council, spoke on "Vatican II and World Xcws" at the Memorial Librar>' in March. 
J.^CK CANNON had a busy spring. As a prelude to the 35th Anniversary Reunion, the . scrappy guard got himself elected to the National Football Hall of Fame and appeared as chief speaker at the 34th annual Rockne Communion Breakfast of the St. Joseph Valley Club on campus, painting a vi\id picture of the Rockne era and even doing an impression of his late mentor in the dressing room. 
Prof. WALTER LANGFORD spent part of March at a conference of about oO contracting colleges for the Peace Corps, held at Estes Park, Colo. Walter has been training Peace Corps vol­unteers at Notre Dame since 1961 and for two years directed the ND project in Chile. 
R. FLOYD SEARER of the Law Class has been appointed to the board of 1st Federal Sa\-ings & Loan Assn., South Bend, along with LLOYD WATERSON '32. 
Spotlight Alumnus... 
PATRICK F. CROWLEY '33 On Council Commission, Mr. & Mrs. CFM 

For nearly 20 years Pat Crowley and his wife Patricia have been building the Chris­tian Family Movement from their Chicago headquarters as secretary couple to the National Coordinating Committee, and this year the strength of the international 40,­000-family organization is evident in the presence of the Crowleys on a Papal Com­mission studying problems of family and birth regulation for the Second Vatican Council. 
Subject to a recent article, "Mr. and Mrs. CFM," in the national Sunday Visitor, Pat and Patty Crowley are preparing an­other national conference of the married couples' Catholic Action movement whose 
Jeanne Ann Martzell, sister of JACK MARTZ­ELL '38 and daughter of VICTOR MARTZELL, was married to JOE MEINERT '39 last fall. 
MORT GOODMAN battled emphysema to ap­pear on the UND Night circuit in California be­fore returning for the Alumni Board Meeting and Reunion. 
ANDREW LOVE, formerly comptroller of West­ern Union, is now vice-president and assistant to the board chairman. 
James T. Doyle 
'31 
805 W. Arcadia Ave. Arcadia, Gal. 

From the Alumni Office: RAY CONNORS has been named vice-president in charge of Western operations of ^Iac^tanus, John & Adams, Inc. AL STEPAN JR, president of Stcpan Chemical Co., has announced a substantial increase in earn­ings for the company. JIM McQUAID is still memorialized durins his lifetime x«th an annual award given in his name at the Vincenncs Civitan banquet honoring ath­letes. The McQuaid Trophy is for excellence in academics, athletics and sportsmanlike attitude. 
JEROME CROUXEY, president of the O'Brien Corp., South Bend, has been elected second vice-chairman for the St. >far>''s College Board of Lay Trustees. 
GENE COYLE is still taking the money away from income-tax payers in the Chicago area. It must be a tough job with all the complaints he receives. 
social enquiry method has brought Chris­tian principles to bear on hitherto-isolated areas of social, political and economic life, race relations and international coopera­tion. The ecumenical nature of their apos­tolate is proved by the adoption of their program by the Episcopal Diocese of Chi­cago for use in its parishes, and CFM lead­ership has founded the Catholic Interracial Council, the National Conference of Chris­tian Employers and Managers, the Catholic Council on Working Life, the Foundation for International Cooperation and the Christian Family Mission Vacation pro­grams. FIC, which operates independently from the Chicago headquarters, is an or­ganization providing hospitality and help to thousands of foreign students in the US, and CFMV coordinates help to missioners by CFM couples on vacation. 
Both native Chicagoans, the Crowleys were married in 1937 after Pat had received a JD from Loyola U. Law School and Patty, a Trinity grad, had studied at the Sorbonne. Besides various legal affiliations as a trust and corporation lawyer, Pat was active in the K of C and Holy Name. Seeking a form of Catholic Action both more integrated and outgoing, he and Patty formed a parish "cell," employing the Belgian "Jocist" pattern of "observe­judge-act," which ultimately united with similar Midwestern groups to form CFM. 
Pat and Patty have resided in WUmette and have four children—Patricia (now Sr. Mary Patrick OSB), Patrick Jr., Kathy and Mary Ann. Religious and civic activi­ties too numerous to mention have brought them honors from Mundelein College, St. Mary's and Notre Dame (Pat is a member of the Law School Advisory Coimcil) and the Medal "Pro Ecdesia et Pontifice" from the late Pope Pius XII. Several visits to Rome in connection with the Council have included audiences with Popes John XXIII and Paul VL 
'3 ? James K. Colliiis 
2982 ToiTii«too Rd. 
Shaker Heists, Ohio 

It is good news to learn that Archbishop PAUL 
HALLINAN has recovered from the attack of 
hepatitis to the e.\tent that he fs able to resume 
many of his duties as .Archbishop of Atlanta. He has 
liad a rough time of it for over a year^ and we are 
delighted with his recovery. 
DR. JOHN H. RUDD is coordinator of the Palm Beach County Hospitality Education Foundation Inc. This is the first such foundation in Florida, and was organized to stimulate Impetus for further assistance in endowing wtirthy projects in the hotel, motel and food ser\'ice industry in that area. Jack has been working closely with colleges offering courses in this field and bringing the Industry view­point to tliem. 
RAY GEIGER was through town recently after addressing the Chicago area Rotary clubs and passed on the following information: 
HARRY BEHIUkfANN has retired from the FBI and is now the chief of police in Broadview, III. LEO CLARKE also retired from the FBI and is living in Atbntic City. Ray saw TOM DUFFY In Chicago on a business trip from his home in San Francisco, and FR. JOHN WILSON while there. Ray also said that he had talked to Archbishop Hallinan recently and that he reported he felt much impro%*ed. 
Our sincercst condolences are extended to the widow and family of NEIL HURLEY, who died on Feb. 9. Nell was a grand fellow and among other things enjoyed a brilliant business career following graduation. He was an advisor to the 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 49 
University for many vcars. He will be sorely missed. 
TED HALPIX writes that hh son, DR. CARY 

HALPIN, is stationed with tlie Army in Germany. 
The new address of JOH.V KRAMER is 11201 

Bellenev%-, Kansas City 14, Missouri. 
Last stunmer we received this letter from Iaw\xr 

JOE WILLIS of Afonticello, X.V.: 
**This morning I received the most recent 

ALUMNUS and in going through it realized that 
undoubtedly word has not been given to you of 
the death of JOE COOKE, which occurred last 
September 16 after an illness of about two weeks. 
"I need not teil \-ou what a shock it was to all 

his friends and what a loss we have sustained.*' 
I'm sorry this was not handled sooner. Many 

classmates may have missed the report of Joe's 
death in the vear-cnd issue of 1963. which also re­
ported the death of JOHN F. KEXXEDY LL.D'50. 
From the Alumni OfHce: RO.V COX, president of the South Btnd Health Under^vriters .Assn., was nanu-d an instructor for a class in health insurance sponsored by the South Bend Life Underwriters .\ssn. R.\Y GEIGER was listed in tlie recent book. 
Leading Men of the United States, published by 
Britanntca. He is also listed in Who's Who in 
Commeree and Indusity^ International Yearbook and 
Statesmen Who's Who published in England, and 
Catholic Who's Who. 
JIM DOUCET. director of administration and 

management services for the US Bureau of Employ­
ment Security, was the keynote speaker for the 
Xew Mexico cliapler of the International Assn. 
of Personnel in Employment Security in Santa Fe 
last October. 
BERXARD HEITZ was appointed assistant su­

perintendent of the alloy bar mill at the Chicago 
plant of US Steel. 
H. CLAY JOHXSO.V, mayor of Rye. X.Y., was named the new US manager and president of the RoyaUGlobc Insurance Co., the world's largest property and casualty insurance organization. 
BOB HURLEY called on the scnices of fellow 

alumnus ED COSGROVE '36 in sctzl'.as a recent 
automobile accident and in acquiring a new home 
when he moved from Lackawanna to West Sen­
eca, x.y. 
LLOYD ^VATERSOX joined FLO\T) SEARER 

'28 as a new director of 1st Federal Savings & Loan 
Assn. in South Bend. 
'3 3 John A. Hoyt, Jr. 
Gillespie & O'Connor 
342 Madison Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 
We here in New York were most pleased that the 

Xolre Damc-.Army game is to come back to the City 
next October. As you well know, Xe\v York lias' 
been neglected for almost a generation. 
Just after the first of the year we received word from the Alumni Office of the death of JIM EXCELS, who, at the time of his death, u-as residing in Green Bay, Wis. The University had a Mass said for Jim on Februar\- 6. 1965. 
''In Paradisum Dcducant Te Angcli." 

ED ECKERT, our Class president, was recently dcsignated as chairman of corporate and foundation bequests for the Challenge II Program in the .Albany, X.Y., area. 
A recent note from JIM GEREXD advising us that he sees SAM HYDE, who visits Milwaukee occasionally. Jim was bus>- last fall and for the first time in many years was unable to get down to the campus for any of the games. 
JOHX SULLIVAX dropped us a note recently advising us that his new business address in Holyoke, Mass., is now 118 Race St. 
BOB FLIXT from Coudcrsport. Pa., wrote re­cently tliat things were well in the Keystone State and that he is still li\-ing at the same address at 5 Water Street. 
From Springfield. HI., DICK HOSTE.XY writes that he is now with the State of Illinois, Depart­ment of Public Aid, He has been with tlie State of Illinois since he retired from the FBI. He heads up the Division of Special Investigations for the state and his investigative actintics keep him on the hop. Although he had scats for all the games last fall, he had to give them au-ay to friends. He spends all liis spare time looking for a new home. 
PETE COXXELLY, distinguished Rochester bar­rister, u*rites that his daughter Marcia. who attended Boston College and Katherinc Gibbs in Boston, was married over last Labor Day weekend to Richard SuIIix'an in Boston. Pete's other daughter, Honora, will be graduated in June from Xazareth 
Spotlight Alumnus... 
JOHN W, KIRSCH '36 Hoosier Boss of Hollywood's Best 
Irish attending Southern California ND 

events at the Hollj'wood Roosevelt find that 
the man running the show is John Kfrsch, 
not only an alumnus but a transplanted 
Hoosier from Indianapolis. 
John entered ND from Cathedral High 

School in 1932 and was graduated magna 
cum laudc with a BCS as a finance major. 
Ser\-ing in the Air Force from 1942 to 1945, 
he left the Che\Tolet Division of General 
Motors Corp. in 1947 to join the staff of 
Hull Hotels. 
Presently, general manager of Hull Hotels consisting of the Hollywood Roosevelt in Hon>'wood, Calif., and El Rancho Hotel in Sacramento, Calif., John is past president of the Southern California Hotel & Motel .Assn., present member of the board of the California State Hotel & Motel Assn., cur­rently president of the Los Angeles Hotel & Restaurant Employers Council, member of the Board of Directors of the HoU^'wood Chamber of Commerce; "inactive" in other civic and industrial affairs with which he is identified. 
A brother, Bro. William Camillus Kirsch CSC, recently celebrated his twenty-fifth anniversary in the Holy Cross Order and is on the faculty at the Father Gibault School for Boys at Terre Haute, Ind. Another brother, George, is a Colonel in the United States Air Force and is presently stationed at Wright Patterson Field at Dayton, Ohio. 
Academy in Rochester and will enter St. Bona­vcnture's College in September. 
GEORGE AUG of Cincinnati recently celebrated his 30th wedding anniversary. Tlic most pleasant surprise was the wonderful gift from JOE CLARK, who was George's best man wlien he u-as married at the Log Chapel at Xotre Dame in 1934. Perhaps this little note about George will stir up some communication from Joe Clark. 
DR. DOUG GIORGIO writes that he is now a grandfather for the third time and that his second daughter Cecelia, who is a Xax-x' nurse, reccntlv was married. Doug sees TOXY CROWLEY and FRED LEXXARTZ frequently at local high school func­tions in Evansx'ille. 
Xoticc lias come in of the recent death of JOSEPH 

W. FULLEM. Joe lived in B>-wood, Upper Darby, Pa. At the time of his death he was Vice President of John B. White, Inc., local Ford dealer. Joe is sunived bv his wife and son Joe Jr., XD Class of »59. 
CHARLIE COXLEY of Havertown, Pa., is busy arranging a Tlianksgiving holiday parly for the Xotre Dame-Miami game next Xovembcr. Charlie writes that he was vcr>' happy that the Army-Xotrc Dame game was transferred to Xcw York, away from "that terrible stadium in Philadelphia." 
MARION BLAKE writes from Tulsa that he has ' moved in ''from the hills" to a house in town, principally to avoid the liea\-y daily traffic problems between his former residence and the city. 
From the jMumni Office: .Mr. and .Mrs. PATRICK CROWLEY had a pri­vate audience with Pope Paul VI when the\' were in Rome recently. They are directors of the Christian Family Movement. BILL BODO has been promoted to manager of the Prudential Insurance Co.'s Juniata Park dis­trict office in Philadelphia. P.\DRE IXOCEXCIO STACCO O.S.Cist. sent us the following: *'. . . For one who is interested in knowing of the highest peaks of the Andes, well. I have one of them within my mission ter­ritory: Illimani. Illimani is one of the largest and highest mountains in the world, and my terri­tory' skirts all the higher slopes, up to the glaciers. . . . Our center of activities. Palca, is situated on the bottom of a canyon where wc have per­petual spring. Wc have about twenty thousand semi-pagan .Ay-mara Indians. .And in order to fortify our mission activities we hope to have a small Cistercian monaster^' here in Palca. .. . I have been in South America since 1931. and have traveled extensively in Bolivia. Peru, Ecuador, and some parts of Chile. The Cistercians have their best-organized missions in Brazil and mo^t voca­
tions too. As to religions vocations and native Cis­tercians, our number two counlr>' is Vietnam. . . . " ED STEPHAX was elected a director at the 
annual meeting of shareholders of John Morrcll & Co.. held in Portland, Me., last Februar%-. 
FR.\.VK "XORDY" HOFF.\fAX received (for "Devotion and Interest in Children's Convalescent Cases") the Outstanding Ser\icc to Youth Award at the annual dinner of the Rocknc Club of .America. Coach .ALEX WILSOX, as most classmates know, owns and personally superxiscs a summer camp for boys. Alex is expanding operations at Camp Chippewa, located on an island in Trude Lake 
near Mercer, Wis. JIM DAXEHY is president of the South Bend Catholic Interracial Council. Our s>'mpathy goes to D.AX ROLFS on the death of his sister in an automobile accident in which his parents were seriously injured. 
1^ 4 Edward F. Mansfield ^** 523 W. Hillsdale San Mateo, Calif. 

From the .Alumni Office: BOB C.AHILL received the Ticket-Man-of-l he-Year Award at the annual Rocknc Club of ;Vmer­ica Dinner in Kansas City this spring—before his .Armv game announcement. VERY REV. MSGR. JAMES MOSCOW was installed as president of the Chicago Hospital Council. TIic council includes 86 institutions.. JOH.V .McLAUGHLI.V and his cousin-partner John Moran of the firm of McLaughlin & Moran Inc., were recently named beer distributors of the month for the US. JOHX KIXSELLA has been appointed vice-president of the Leo Burnett Co. Inc. MOOSE KRAUSE was appointed by South Bend's mayor to serve a one-year term as cliairman of the South Bend Recreation Board. HUGH DEVORE was elected president of the newly chartered South Bend Chapter of the An­cient Order of Hibernians in March. BERTRAM McCLART^', US Bureau of Public Roads assistant regional engineer for Region 8 in Portland, Ore., was awarded the" US Dept. of Commerce Meritorious Service Silver Medal, He was cited "for continuous and exceptionally com­petent ser\'icc and engineering leadership throughout ' Region 8 of the Bureau of Public Roads in the direct Federal and Federal-aid programs, and for ' diligent and devoted serx'ice in all assigned duties during 33 years of dedicated service." The Knights of Columbus magazine Columbia had a very interesting article on the Rome XD Club's yotrc Dame Hospitality Center under the competent care of VINCE McALOOX in the May issue. 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August^ 1965 
ERNEST XL-VSSIMINE is head of Texas Petro­
Historians list thirty-four crowned heads 
leum Co. for all of Colombia. He is stationed 
Spotlight Alumnus... 

in Bogota. in hereditary succession as Grand Masters 
Francis T. McGuirc 
'35 
Vice President for Special Projects Notre Dame, Ind. 
From retiring Sec>-. FRANK HOCHREITER: 
It is the middle of .April (one week beyond the 
extended deadline from the first of the month), 
and u'c czn only hope that our good editor will 
nnd room to print this column when lie starts his 
layout work. Several crash projects and a resigned­
unrcplaced secretary have not helped matters either. 
So here goes! 
Elfven new questionnaires, plus a letter from 
TOM (Hawaii) FLYNX round out the returns. This 
means that wc have received 106 this vear as against 
271 in 1960. Quite a difTeience! 
ED SMITH, our treasurer, reported dues returns 
from 139 as of March 30. Wc arc sure, from notes 
on questionnaires, that a few of our men have sent 
in their $15 even though they knew they would not 
be at Reunion, or were uncertain. The same goes 
for the difTerencc between Ed*s total and ours. 
Of those 106 returns, 77 said YES; 19 said 
M.\YBE; and 10 said NO for Reunion. The ex­
cellent material going out from P.\UL FERGUS, 
the local Chairman, as well as PHIL HEINLE and 
TOM OWEN, vice-presidents for tlic East and 
South, respectively, has been a real shot-in-thc-arm. 
What happened to VIC ARCADI and WALT 
O'BRIEN, the vice-presidents for the West and 
Midwest? 
This column will be coming to you after the big 
dates in June, and by then those of you returning 
will have done your own chatting with each other. 
But, for the many others, we thought we should 
finish out our reporting job. The Alumni Office has 
run into several jams on the publication of the last 
.ALUMNUS, which should have been out weeks 
ago. Keep your fingers crossed on this one! 
TOM FLYNN wrote that he u-as not sure whether 
he had sent in his reply, or if it arrived too late for 
publication. (We never received tl, Tom!) He will 
be on board, but we cannot report on him other 
than to say he continues in the practice of the 
law in the islands. (239 Merchant St., Honolulu, 
Hawaii.) 
JOE F1TZM.AURICE (2-B Woodbne, Greenbelt, Md.) has been in town recently. Several phone calls led to a lunch as he passed through on his way to Pennsyh-ania. He was concerned because lie had received none of our mailings since he is carried on the '36 roster—his degree date. Also Joe re­ported on FRANK GAUL and family. Frank has been confined to a VA hospital since 1958, suffering from emphysema. Before his illness Frank was a district manager for .Anheuser-Busch. Prior to that he had been backfield coach for John Carroll U. and a halfback for the Cleveland Rams. Mrs. Jeanne Gaul is holding the fort for their five children with an excellent reputation as a real estate agent. Our best to Frank, with a hope for recovery in the future. 
Getting back to *'Fitr." he is a hearing examiner for the Civil Aeronautics Board in Washington. (BILL KLIMA is there too as an attorney!) From our luncheon conversation, Joe is having a ver)' interesting life. 
.A couple months ago wc received an announce­ment of the marriage of CLIFF WELSH'S daughter, Mary Louise, on Januarv* 17 in Phoenix. .Ariz. Congratulations to the groom, Lawrence Haddad, for choosing so well! 
A sliorl while back JIM ARMSTRONG wrote JOE FITZ.MAURICE that be had been cimngcd to our '33 roster, and another lost soul got a switch —ART GREGORY. After our last report on Art, and his letter, wc received a questionnaire from him. 
FRANK HOLAHAN sent us a long letter with a number of clippings about HAROLD MARSHALL '29, who died last December 2. Harold was presi­dent of Frank's bank, a great Notre Dame alumnus and a community leader. Also included were news pictures of the two Holahan sons—"the olc man all over again if wc ever saw a likeness"—who arc students at ND. John graduates this June in -Arts and Letters, and Bill is a freshman in Engineering. The latter, an honor student, was the recipient of a N.Y. Stale Regents Scholarship. Congratulations to the whole family! 
Because of Jolin's graduation at the University, Frank has had to cancel his plans for Reunion. Two trips in such short order would be a little rough, and that graduation is rather important— don't you agree? 
P.AT FISHER wrote the end of the year about 
RICHARD W. SNOOKS '36 Like Coeur de Lion, a Knightly Litany 
The annual meeting of the Equestrian Order of the Knights of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem was held in St. Paul, Minn.. April 24-25, 1965. His Excellency Arch­bishop Binz was host to this meeting and the investiture ceremony and Mass follow­ing at the Cathedral of St. Paul as grand prior of the Northern Delegation in the United States. St. Joseph, Mo., was hon­ored on this occasion by the admission of Richard Snooks as a member (like Richard Coeur de Lion) of the Knights of the Holy Sepulchre. 
The establishment of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem can be placed after the fall of Jerusalem on July 15, 1099. On .August 12 a group of knights wearing the insignia of the Order for the first time took part in the Battle of .Ascon with God­frey de Bouillon, Duke of Lower Lorraine and first king of Jerusalem, as their leader. The Mohammedan enemy was put to flight after the first encounter. The order thus dates from the First Crusade. The Knights, from that day on, were made the official guardians of the Holy Sepulchre and re­main such today. The Order of the Holy Sepulchre is born spontaneously out of the devotion to the Tomb of Christ, the strug­gle against the forces of Islamism, the mili­tant pict>' of Western knights, and the guard of honor around the Holy Sepulchre insti­tuted by the Latin Kings of Jerusalem. 
the death of JOE .-VRCUS (which we reported last time) and FRANK COONEY in Detroit last August. Our deep 5>Tnpathy lo Mrs. Cooncy and her ten children. 
The .\lumni Office has mailed us copies of letters sent to the widows of three more of our gang: FR.-\NK MURPHY died last September 5 in Spring­field, Mass.; GEORGE L-VXCH died on February 27 in Benton Harbor, Mich., and JOHN STAN­FORD died November 28 in Dallas. Tex. To Mrs. Murphy, Mrs. Lynch, Mrs. Stanford, and their families, our Class prayers for their husbands and our sympathy. 
This brings us to the remaining questionnaires— those coming, possibly coming, and not coming to Reunion—30 of them. First those returning: 
PHIL PURCELL (3812 Evelyn Dr., Salt Lake 
of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre, reach­ing to Charles II, King of Spain, Naples and Sicily. The purposes of the Order to­day are \'aricd and many, i>ut all are re­lated directly to the protection, preservation, and development of the sacred shrines in the Holy Land, especially the Holy Sep­ulchre iself. The Knights of the Holy Sepulchre have as their insignia a vermilion cross with double arms, called the Patri­archal Cross. 

Knight Snooks, one of ten lay diocesans admitted from the Kansas City-St. Joseph Diocese,* was bom and educated in the shadow of St. Joseph's Co-Cathedral, at the parish school and Christian Brothers High, before taking his BS in Commerce (and Monogram) at ND, moving on to the Bank of St Louis, Mo., from 1936 to 1940 and returning to St. Joseph's Citizens Loan & Savings Co., where he has made his career. Secretar>'-treasurer in 1940, he has been president since 1944, as well as president of Citizens Finance Plan Inc. since 1961, president and director of the Credit Bureau since 1942-and, from 1948 to 1960, of Snooks Cooperage Co. President of the Chamber of Commerce in 1951 and of the .American Industrial Bankers Assn. in 1956, he is also active in the Missouri Consumer Finance Assn. 
Dick's involvement in religious and civic affairs is fantastic: past president of Holy Name and on the consulting board at the Co-Cathedral, chairman of the St. Joseph's Hospital board of advisors, past president of the Diocesan Council of Catholic Men, past faithful navigator of the 4th Degree Assembly K of C, member of the Legion of Mary and Diocesan Commission on Litur­gical Participation; ciinlian representative to the US Coast Guard during World War II and chairman of the War Price & Ration Board from 1942 to 1945; chairman of the Board of Zoning Adjustment from 1947 lo 1952, president of the Citizens Improvement Assn. in 1951, and on the Board of Health & \Velfare for the past three years; he's a chairman of NCCJ, a director of St. Jo­seph's United Fund and on the executive board of the Boy Scouts of America, from whom he has received the Silver Beaver and Catholic scouting award of St. George —rcompleting the litany of St. Louis and St. Joseph that brought him to knighthood in St. Paul. 
Back in 1938 Dick married Mary Jean Murphy of St, Joe. They have four chil­dren, William Patrick, Margaret Mary, Richard H. and Mary A. 
City, Utah) has been in the insurance business for 27 years, associated with the Continental .Agency. He and. the late Norinc had four children — a married son and daughter and a single son and daughter. One of the boys is an ND man. .And there Is a grandson and granddaughter. Xorlne married Phil 11-30-40, and she died in 1951. Phil remarried S-S-fiO. 
JOE BE.ACH (219 Sycamore Dr., Mctairie, La.) has been proprietor-manager of Airline Finance Co. for 12 years. Prior to that he had Beach Bros. Furniturc for 12; was an FBI agent for five; was with Personal Finance Co. for four; and in profes­sional baseball for t^vo years. He and Cecilia have two single boys and two single gids. Joe was married 7-22-42. 
.ART GREGORY (450 So. Garfield St., Denver, 

Notre Dame Alumnus, Juiy-August, 1965 51 
Colo.) has been practicing law for 27 years, as we told you the last time. He has no cliildrcn. A late starter. Art married Margaret 10-29-55, but he lost her in death four years later, 12-10-59. We did not know this. Art, our siinpathy! 
FRANK McGUIRE (2330 lUh St., Molinc, 111.) is Wcc-president for research with Deere and Co.. a finn v.-ith which he has been assodated for 16 years. Prior to that he spent three years each with Sibley Machine & Foundry and Republic Steel; and two at tlie U. of Kentucky. He and x\nne have an unmarried son who is an XD man and a single daughter at St. Mar>*'s College. Frank was married 8-6-36. 
BILL OTTE (-101 W. Park St., Coldvrater, Ohio) has been with the New Idea Dixision of the Avco Corp. for 28 years and is their conlrolicr. He and Valeria have five unmarried sons, three single and one married daughter. One son is an ND man­.\lso, there are two grandclnldrcn—one each. Bill was married 8-17-40. ' 
ART DEMERS (10 Ridgeway Cir., Springfield, Mass.) has been with .Artted Co. for 19 years as their president and treasurer. Previously he spent 11 years with General Instrument Co. Art and CarolvTi have one son and four daughters, all single. Another daughter is deceased. Art was married 11-25-44. 
XEIL CROWLEY (24 Anclior Ct., West Babylon, N'.Y.) has been an administrative officer with the Long Island Park Commission for nine years. Previous to that he spent nine years with two retail food chains, and 10 with the New York City AVclfare Department. Neil Itas three unmarried sons and one married, as well as a single and married daughter. There arc three grandchildren—one boy and two girls. Neil and Kathleen were married 10-1-38, and she died 7-9-60. Our sympathy, Xeil, to you and yours! 
.And now to tlie MAYBES: 
SPEXCE WALTO.V (3^6 Park Ave, MIsha.vaka, Ind.) has been a superior court judge for 10 years. In the law business for 28 years, he was mayor of Misha^vaka for seven of them. He and Edna have an unmarried son and two unmarried daughters, as well as a married daughter. Spcncc was married 6-22-40. 
TOM LEONARD (28750 Edgevale Rd., Cleveland, O.) has been in sales with NSL Inc. for 10 years. No prior history was given. He and Dorothy Ann have one son and two daughters, all single. Tom was married 10-27-34. 
TOM GALLAGHER (North Lake Rd., Armonk, N.Y.) has been 22 years in advertising. He is account executive ^vith A. Asch Co. in Ne^v York. He and Mary Ann have three single children— two sons and a daughter. Tom %vas married 12-26-42. 
GEORGE BARBER (1813 N. 22nd St.. Lawton, Okla.) has been with the .\mcrlcan National Bank, o! which he is president, for 25 years. He and Phyllis have a married son and two single girls. George was married 6-15-39. 
BROTHER THADDEUS (1443 W. Division St., Chicago, 111.) has spent his life In religion, haring 
been a math and sacncc teacher tor the Holy 
Cross Brotlicrs for 28 years. Currently he is at Holy Trinity High School. 
ED KILMURRAY (2957 E. Rhode Island Ave., Milwaukee, Wis.) has been in the practice of law in Radne for his entire career except for mih'tary serxice. He and Irene have t%vo single girls. Also a late starter, Ed was married 1-27-51. 
TON*Y BROWN (306 E. Mosliolu Pkwy-, New York, N.Y.) has been an engineer with Brown Bros. Manufacturing Corp. In New York since leaving school. He and Loretta have five single children—two boys and three girls. Tony was married 6-5-46. 
.\RM.A.\D KELLOGG (P.O. Box 1318, Rock Springs, Wyo.) has been an architect for 26 years, operating under the name of Kellogg and Kellogg. He and Mabel have three dngle and one married son, and two single daughters. There Is also a grandson. Armand was married 1-1-40. 
DAN HENRY (735 Shiricy, Birmingham, Mich.) has been in sales for Safron Printing Co. for the last five years in Detroit. Prior to that move he u-as president of Douglas Offset for 10 years; vice-president of Grapic Arts Process for 10; and associated with Motschall Printing Co. for four and J. L. Hudson Co. for five years. He and Jane have two sons and two daughters, all single. Dan was married 2-15-41. 
BILL MURRAY (737 Filip Rd., Los Altos, Calif.) has been district manager of the B.F. Good­rich Rubber Co. for 10 years. No prior history was given. He and Phyllis have a single and married son and a married daughter. There are two grand­daughters. Bin was married 9-23-37. 
LOUIS FAUTSCH (1045 South Grandwcw, 
Spotlight Alumnus... 
CHARLES W. DUKE '38 Grounded Nou', "He Tries Harder" 
The election of Charles Duke as Avis • Rent A Car's vice-president for properties and concess'ionSj was announced in April by .\vis President Winston V. Morrow Jr. in New York. Last spotlighted as an airport administrator, he is now based at New York's Roosevelt Field, Avis world head­quarters. 
Charlie joined Avis in February, 1963, as national concessions manager and has ser\'ed successively as properties and con­cessions manager and assistant vice-presi­dent. In his new position he will be re­sponsible for coordinating and administer­ing all properties, concessions and facili­ties of the Rent A Car Division, as well as the negotiation and processing of leases and contracts for these properties. 
A native of La Porte, Ind., Charlie is a former airport manager of the St. Joseph County Airport, South Bend; \vas director of aviation for the J^cw Orleans Aviation Board; and resident senior associate in the financial, economic and management con­sulting firm of Leigh Fisher -'\ssociates Inc., Chicago. 
He lives in Northport, N.Y., with his wife and four children. 
Dubuque, Iowa) has been in the general practice of the law since he left XD. There was a spell of being a municipal police judge. (And THAT we would like to have seen, Lou!) He and Lorraine have three sons and a daughter, all single. Lou was married 5-12-37. 
KIERAX DUNN (1824 Parker St.. Springfield, Mass.) has operated his own vending machine business for the last four years, trading under Ser\-ice Clubs Vending Co. Prior to that he spent 20 years with Atlantic Refining Co. and five with 
F. \V. ^VooIworth Co. He and Mary Ann have two single bo}-5. *'Lcft\-" was married 11-25-40. 
JOHN GAINER (2200 Oak\icw Dr., Godfrey. III.) Is vice-president of the Alton First National Bank and Trttst Co. In the trust dept. for 14 years, he previously was a practicing attorney for 13 yean. He and Frances liave an unmarried son and three single girls. John was married In 1940. 
And now to those who satd NO: 
VAL KLAIBER (527 N. Central Ct., Indianapolis, Ind.), after 27 years with Metro.GoId\\7n-Ma>-cr as a branch manager, is a theater manager for Greater Indianapolis Amusement Co. He and Katherine have three single bo>-s, four single girls and a married daughter. One son is deceased. There arc twio grand­sons. Val was married 6-24-39. 
JIM CARRICO (3706 Chtvy Chase Rd., Louis­ville, Ky.) has been a part of Cooper-Louisvillc Co. for 28 years and is their credit manager. He and Clara Louise have one son and daughter, both single. Another late one, Jim was married 9-4-54. 
JOHN MONAHAN (314 W. 4th St.. Oxnard, Calif.) has been a practicing ph>'slcian and surgeon for 20 ycare. He and Joan have five single boys and one single girl. John was married 9-9-44. 
TOM GR.\VES (American Embassy, Beirut. Lebanon, APO 694, New York, N.Y.) has been with the US Government for many years. Currently he is regional director for printing of the US Information Agency In Lebanon, where he has been for 13 years. Prior to that be was a civilian employee of the US Air Force. He and Jane l»ave two apiece, single sons and daughters. The fourth late starter, Tom \%'as married in 1930. 
RAY VANDERHEYDEN (6930 Jamlcson Ave., St. Louis, Mo.) has been associated with the Illinois Central Railroad for 27 years and is their general traffic agent. He and Lois have an unmarried daughter. Ray was married 6-8-40. 
BILL KLIMA (1455 Martha Custis Dr., Alex­andria, Va.) has been an attorney ^rith the federal government for a number of years. While he gave us no history-, JOE FITZ^L\URICE identified him as being witli the Civil Aeronautics Board in Wash­ington, as we noted earlier In this column. He and Jean have four sons and a daughter, all single. Bill was married 1-17-48. 
BILL BURKE (2904 Willow Way, Portsmouth, O.) has been with the Ohio Stove Co. for 22 ytars In both the manufacturing and legal end of the business. He and Mar>* have five unmarried sons, a single and a married daughter. There arc four grandsons. Bill was married in 1937. 
GENE O'BRIEN (303 North Wind Rd., Towson, Md.), after 28 years with the O'Brien Corp., became president of Baltimore Paint and Chemical Corp. a year ago. He and Laura Lcc have three single boj-s and a married one (two were ND men); and two single girls. There are four grandsons. 
BEN BEYRER (1380 Asylum Ave., Hartford, Conn.) has been a member of the faculty of the School of Social Work, U. of Connecticut, for the past 12 years. Prc\'Iously he held similar positions with Florida State U, for seven and the University of Melbourne (Australia) for one. There were also three years with American Red Cross and four with St. Joe County Juvenile Ct. He and Helen have an unmarried son and a single daughter. Ben was married 5-3-45. 
ED O'HARA (163 Werkley Dr.. Tonawanda. N.Y.) has been associated with the New York State Dept. of Health for 12 years and Is now assistant administrator of the Bureau of Medical Defense. Prior to this move he was in education In several New York communities. He and Agnes have l^vo single boys and a single girl. One son graduates from West Point this June and the other is In his Second year. Ed was married 6-12-37. 
And that brings us to the END OF THE LINE AFTER 30 YEARS! This is our way of saying that this is OUR LAST COLUMN! We tried to retire in 1960, but our resignation was refused and we Were persuaded to stay for another five years. 
There Is an idea In our head that ours is the longest continuous service in this Class Secretary business. Maybe LOU BUCKLEY (secretary of the *28 Class) beats us, but w% think there was a break In continuity of his tenure. The Alumni Office and JIM ARMSTRONG can verify if anyone is interested. 
These have been 30 wonderful years, and w*e have enjoyed c\*ery minute of them. Unfortunately there \%*crc times when we fell down on tlie job a bit, and for these lapses we hope you all will forgive us! All in all, we have tried to do the job for you— to keep you informed—to keep '35 at the top of the heap of all classes in mcmor}*. We cannot tell you how much we appreciated your cooperation over the years. Special thanks to the great South Bend local committee, our tremendous Cbss officers and the Alumni Office stafT. 
We *rill not be at Reunion—the first one we have missed in 30 years! But the new job docs not permit our being with j-ou. We will miss seeing you in the Morris Inn, in the halls of Alumni, at the Grotto, and around the campus—more than wc can express. The next two months uill have us much on the move, and Reunion cannot be fit into the schedule. 
By the time you read this column, you who return in June, )'ou will have heard of our resignation and possibly viill have voted for our replacement. Wc wish him well—whoc\'er he may be! Give him the same help you gave us, AND HE WILL DO A MUCH BETTER JOB TO KEEP '35 ON TOP! 

Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
Good-bye! And, thank you for the privilege of 
& Indemnity Co. He entered the hotel in­
serving you and Notre Dame! 
Spotlight Alumnus... 
dustry with the Sonnabend-operated hotels 
"Hoch" 
From the Alumni Office: TOM HILS, new secretary of the Greater Miami N D Club, wrote on Miami's newest and most colorful building, llic Bacardi Building, in the January issue of Construction Craftsman. VERMONT HARTER is the new assistant prin­cipal at Riley High School in South Bend. 
•OjL Larry Palkovic 
^ W 207 North Market Street Jcrfmstown, N.Y. 
JOE BANDDURICH of the VA Hospital, Batavia, 
N.Y., just recently got married and congratulations 
are in order. Joe w-as with public housing till 1958 
in Fairfield, Conn. When the project ^%-as sold he 
came to VA in Batavia, \v1icrc Joe is chief in the 
housekeeping di\'iston at the Veterans Hospital. Hope 
to get in touch with Joe as Batavia is not too far. 
JOE MAHAR, 345 Broadu-ay, Kingston, N.Y., is 
married (no children) and senior claims examiner 
for the N.Y. State Dcpt. of Labor. Received a 
nice Christmas card from Joe with a few lines. 
However I sent him one first, with a few lines to 
get his report in. He was surprised to hear from me, 
but no less than I was to hear from him. Claims he 
is u-orld's ivorst correspondent, but no less than 
many of our Class which he refers to. He had seen 
ND play n\io games this past fall and said how 
good ND looked, but he remarked that the season 
was just V/z minutes too long, referring to the So. 
Cal. game. Joe's Christmas card was a picture of 
the ND campus, that is, part of it which includes 
the new library*, the Dome and Sacred Heart Church, 
a real beautiful greenish card which I will keep 
among the rest of my souvenirs. Expect to sec or 
write to Joe in the very near future. 
FRANCIS "MIKE" LAYDEN, 414 West 63rd St., 
Indianapolis, Ind.. !s married, has t%vo girls and one 
boy and is general public relations supervisor for 
Indiana Bell Telephone Co. This fall marked Mike's 
28th year as a Big 10 Conference football official. 
Has never ofiiciated in an ND game. Made the 
meeting of all present and former Alumni Board 
members in February, 1964. 
GENE AULLOY, 2101 Polk St., Houston, Tex., 
is married, has three children, owns and operates a 
cash register and safe business in Houston. Gene 
mo\*ed to Texas in '41, opened his own business in 
November, *48. He sells Moslcr Safes and Sweda 
Cash Registers; 5a)*s business has gone real well to 
date. One girl, Susan, graduates from U. of Toronto 
in May; Dennis is in his first year at ND; Cheic is 
in her second year of high school at Duchesne. Hopes 
to make the 30th reunion. Will have to give Gene 
a plug here as we have a Mosler Safe and they are 
tops as far as w*e arc concerned. 
GEORGE McNEILE, 1325 McKinley, South Bend, is married, has three girls and is supervisor engineer for Wheelabrator Corp., Mtshau-aka, Ind. George writes a very encouraging letter on taking over the Secretary work of our Class and he hopes that rest of the Class will send me their reports so that our 30th reunion will be a big success. Also mentions what wonderful strides ND is making in the field of education and having the football team on top once again. George frequently sees MORRIE COOPER, a successful druggist, but other than that seldom sees any other members of the '36 Class. 
Received a nice Christmas card from JOHN MORAN along with a few lines. John has already sent in his report. Said he heard recently from BUD GOLDMAN, who is in an advertising agency in Tucson, Ariz. Has chatted several times in recent months with JI.M ifacDEVITT '35, who is an attorney and CPA, which keeps him busy, and Jim's office is just a few blocks away from John's. 
Received a nice Christmas card from WILLIAM SAFFA, Mounds, III. Bill cbims he will break down one of these days and realty write me a few h'ncs of news along with his report. Don't u'att too long, as the year will be out before you get around to it. Bill has been promising mc this letter for the past icw years. Hope this will remind him to write a few lines. 
Received a nice Christmas card from ANDY HUFNAGEL wishing us a very nice Christmas. Andy and I correspond quite frequently. 
Got a nice card and a fev^ lines from F.\T TOFURI. Pat had been laid up with a pinched nerve in his back but is o.k. now. He is sales mgr. for the F. P. Goodwin Co. in New England. Oldest girl Ann is married; Patti is a junior at U. of Maine; Judy is a ^enio^ at Westwood Junior College in Maine. Pat said they had a very busy and happy 
GEORGE J. NEUMANN '39 Promotional Veep, He Deals in Sleep 
George Neumann has been named vice-
president of marketing for Hotel Corp. of 
America. He liad been director of sales 
and advertising for the company and con­
tinues to be responsible for supervision of 
the sales, advertising and public relations 
departments. He is also responsible for the 
coordination of marketing programs of 
HCA's hotels and Charter House Motor 
Hotels. 
George began his business career in mer­
chandising with Sears Roebuck Co. in Chi­
cago and later handled sales promotion and 
public relations with a Hartford Accident 
summer although most of his w-as spent on his back 
in a brace. He sees ANDY SCOPOTI as he is 
athletic director in Nonvood, Mass. We are glad 
y»u are well and able to get around as you did 
before. 
ALLEN DONOVAN, 68 Kenwood Circle, Bloom­
field, Conn., just recently married. Received a nice 
card from Allen at Christmas. He is still working 
for the government as a lawyer. 
WILLIA.M BAYER, 951 W. First St., Oil City, Pa., is married, has two boys, one girl, a salesroan­mgr. of wax specialties, he has been selling petroleum waxes for the past 15 yrs., mostly to the packaging industry. He has run into a number of classmates while traveling all over the country; does not mention any names. Bill says an up-to-date roster of the bo>3 and their occupations would be most interesting and will be from my standpoint. Bill's oldest boy graduated from ND in '63, married in the summer of *6i and is now stationed with the Army at Fort Knox. 
FRANCIS MARTIN, 820 W. Drive, Port Neches, Tex., is married, has twio children. A chemical engineer with the Pure Oil Co., assistant superin­tendent of oil refining in Texas, Frank is active in the Chamber of Commerce and other civic groups. 
Received that leUcr from BILL S.^F.A on Jan. 20. Bill has four girls and two boys. He and hb family attended the wedding of one of his sons in NYC last sununer. He did not get a chance to come up here for a visit. Bill sends his regards to all and any of gang from ND. Said he heard from AL DONO­VAN, JOHN KENNEDY and ED HAGGAR. Have them drop me a line for news. Bill wants to hear from "Sheephrrdrr" Jf.\f PAGLIASOTTI, JOE BOTTS. ED. KUMROW, TONY SERGE and some of the others. I answered Bill's letter expbining what had happened to MICKEY WALKER and others. • 
Am still waiting for more news to write up for 
as sales representative at the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago. HCA was formed in 1936 and he became Midwest sales man­ager and later assistant national sales di­rector. In 1959 he moved to HCA's cor­porate oSSces in Boston, Mass., to coor­dinate the company's advertising program. HCA is placing heavy emphasis in its sales activity on the promotion of personal service, a concept which George has helped to create. He majored in philosophy at ND and received an MB.A from the U. of Chicago. During World War II he served as an Air Force pilot and now spends his leisure time horseback riding and swimming. 
George is active in the Hotel Sales Man­agement Assn., having served as an officer in the Illinois chapter; a member of the ."Advertising Club of Boston, the National Travel Agents Assn., and an allied mem­ber of the American Society of Travel Agents. He is a member of the Notre Dame -•Mumni Club of Boston. He is active in the Holy Name Society in Winchester, Massachusetts, where he makes his home with his wife, Mary, and three children; he recently served as chairman of the Win­chester chapter for HOPE—the mercy ship dedicated to providing medical aid to un­derprivileged countries. 

Hotel Corporation of America operates hotels and motor hotels which include: The Plaza, New York City; The Mayflower, Washington, D.C.; The Royal Orleans, New Orleans; The Carlton Tower, London, Eng­land; Hotel America, Houston, Tex.; Hotel America in Hartford, Conn; The Kenmore in Boston, The Carlton Beach in Bermuda, Balmoral Club in Nassau, and 16 Charter House Motor Hotels and Lodges, including El Miramar Charterhouse in San Juan, Puerto Rico. 
the ALUM-NUS from rest of our '36 Class. Keep reminding the tx>)3 at feast to send in their reports. As of now I have nothing fturther to report. If anj'One's report is missing, have him drop me a line and I will see it gets to you. 
From the Altunni Office: DICK SNOOKS was named a Knight of the Holy Sepulchre and was formally invested in the order. PAT MALLOY ivas appointed lo the Board of the National Council on Crime and Delinquency for a three-year term. 
*Vt Jwepli P- Quinn 
^' P.O. Box 275 
LakeLcnape 
Andover, N.J. 

From the Altimni Office: Dr. and Mrs. CHARLES HUFNAGEL have the honor of being the parents of the Indiana Cherry Blossom Princess. Katherine was honored by the Indiana Society of Washington at a reception and dance. JIM B.ACON of .AP won a netvs award at the publicists' luncheon held in Holly^vood, Calif., in April. JOHN CACKLEY, still loyal to ND, attended UND Night and other Jersey Shore Club affairs even though he is vice-president for development of Georgian Court College in Lakewood, N.J. ALBERT S.MlTH's election to the job of mayor of Skokie, III., w*as a major upset over the in­cumbent mayor and a strong political organization. Skokie has a popubtion of 70,000. Our wishes and prayers, go lo Albert in his new job. Congratulations to ED FISCHER, recently ele-
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 53 
\zted to full professor of communication arts at ND. Ed was on the West Coast this spring con­sulting for makers of rclicious 6Ims. 
1^ 0 Bunuc Bauer 
1139 Western Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 

I expected to find my desk covered with letters and questionnaire replies from you idols of the 30's when I returned from my tour of duty in the Indiana legislature. Instead it u-as co^'cred »nth Jetteis from thousands of school kids and disappointed parents who wondered why I hadn't been able to get passed a "Fair School Bus" bill that would have prondcd equal btis transportation to children in independent schools as well as public schools. With JOHX O'CONNOR and PAT FISHER {class of '36) lobb>-ing, plus an a\-alanche of letters, tele­grams, etc, I did push it through the House but it died in the Senate. There were many ND men from different classes who fought liard for this "hottest" bill of the session including JOHN KURTH of Mishau-aka, AL LA MEER of Munster, and TOM MURPHY of Indianapolis (ND publi­cist JIM MURPHY'S brother). I also introduced three other controversial bills: to ban use of synthetic determents; to control the application of insecticides, pesticides and fungiddes; and to permit hunting on Sunday, all of which were as successful as the 1963 football team if you will pardon my bringing that up. However I did get eight out of 13 bills all the way through into law and that is a better batting average than even CHARLIE BOROWSKI's was, according to Statistician CHARLEY CALLAHAN. Along uiili that infor­mation Charley also told me JOHN JEHLE con­tacted him for a football movie from his plumbing contractor's ofSce in .'\lton. III. John has six daughters and tu-o boys, which makes him only one daughter short of roe, but he also has a Notre Dame son-in-law which beats me—at this writing. 
DR. ALBERT DRESCHER made up for never attending any of our reunions by sending a very informative questionnaire back from Oklahoma City, where he not only has practiced dentistry but taught it at the U. of Oklahoma for 22 years and holds now the highest active rank, clinical professor, the first general practitioner ever to achieve this title. Al, whose first wife died in 1957, has a daughter, Margaret, at OU, a son, Dennis, a freshman at St. Louis pre-law and a l2-year-o!d daughter, Cecilia. He and wife Rose are active in PTA work, with Al being McGuinness High School president, AI u-as head of the Oklahoma City ND Club in 1959-1961. 
Only other questionnaire returned u-as from ARAM JARRET from Narragansctt, R.L, who didn't make any of the reunions but does liave a son at ND, Aram Jr. He also lias four more sons at home including Peter, only a few months old, plus two daughters. Aram is a wool textile salesman and is president of the W'oonsockct Chamber of Commerce and Narragansctt Little League. As my wife ah\-ays says, if >*ou want a job done, give it to a man with a lot of kids. 
Another man with a lot of kids who has been doing things is CH.-\RLIE DUKE, who was just named \ice-president of Avis in New York. 
Sad newis from the Alumni ofBce. JOHX BUCKLEY died January 25 in Midland, Texas. John was a contractor and president of AA.-\ Structures Inc. He and his wife Rita had eight children, four of whom arc in four different colleges, and the youngest is 7. John was president of the Chicago Club when on campus and attended all but the '58 reunion. A 4th degree K. of C , he was also active in scouting and youth \vork and was building chairman ol St. Anne's Church. John was a true leader, enJD>'ablc to be around and an out­standing example of a Notre Dame man. May he intercede for us in heaven. 
Our condolences go also to CL.ARENCE SCHU­MACHER, whose mother, Mrs. Pelcr Schumacher, died on New Year's Day. 
A few mo\ing notes: HANK LIPSIE from New Mexico to Box lOl ^fR, Rolling AFB, Washington. 
D.C. 20332; FR. JOE RACE, who missed a few games last fall because of illness, from Racine to Box 255. Reesenlle, Wsc. 53579; JIM REILLEY from Centralia, Pa., to 5263 Delanccy, Philadelphia, Pa. 19143; CHARLES SLYNGSTAD to 911 Lark­spur, Oakland, Calif.; and JOHNN'Y MOIR from Akron to 810 Mohawk Dr., Huron, Ohio. ED SNELL has moved from Peoria to No. 167-3 Chome, Ondcn-Machi, Shibu\*a-Ku, Tok>'o, Japan. 
Plans for our 30th reunion in 1968 were launched at a New Year's party at DON FISHER's at­tended by 15 local '38er5, so why not start looking ahead to joining us too? 
WILLIAM D. O'TOOLE '39 (left) was 
named Rochester's Man-of-the-Year at the 
annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner at the Rochester Club. The scroll is being presented by Reginald A. Morrison '37, retiring president of the Notre Dame Club of Rochester. Rev. Edmund 
P. Joyce, Umversity exec vice-president, was the principle speaker. 

From the Alumni Office: ABE ZOSS has been appointed corporate tech­nical director for CeJanesc Corp. of America. He will be responsible for the direction of the Cclanese Central Research Labonitor>' at Summit, N.J. JOHN LUNGREN was honored as a full fellow in the American College of Physicians at a meet­ing in Chicago celebrating their 50ih anniversary in March. John Jr. is a junior at ND and John's other son Dan is a freshman. BURNIE BAUER uas elected a director repre­senting Northeastern Indiana at the convention of the Indiana ^Vater Conditioning .Assn. in Afay. In January Mrs. Bauer attended the inauguration of the Indiana governor and three of their children were pages for the first t^vo da>-s. Burnie was serving as a state representative. ED HAGGAR, president of Haggar Co., joined the board of directors of the First National Bank in Dallas. BILL DUGGAN was promoted in the US Foreign Service, He is presently scr\ing in Washington as a member of the Policy Planning Council of the Dcpt. of State. Our sympathy to CHUCK SWEENEY on the death of his brother Rev. John Sweeney. Fr. Sweeney was superintendent of the Peoria, 111., parochial schools. 
I^ Q Joseph E. Hannan Am. Bank & Trust Co. 101 N. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana 

Help! Help! Help! MOTHER HANNAN's cup­board is bare! I have the space, but need the help of all of the class to stock the larder. Please send me any and all tidbits about your fellow classmates together with requests concerning those from whom >*ou wish to hear, and the information \%'ill be contained in your secretary's report. I will be a most willing clearinghouse of infonnation, but must rely upon all of you to help. 
I respectfully call your attention to tlie names of >'Our classmates listed in this issue or recent issues who have attained their Eternal Reward and ask that you remember each and every one of them in your Masses and prayers. 
Your secretary has been alerted to the avail­ability of a Class Hospitah'ty Suite at the Hotel Commodore, New York, N.Y., for the weekend of the Notre Dame-Army game on October 9, 1965. If there is enough interest in such an idea . . . please let me know . . . and these arrangements will be made and flyers will be sent out concerning this projected idea. 
From the Alumn! Office: JAROLD SUNDERLAND was appointed accoun­tant technical—coke and coal chemicals—for US Steel's Geneva Works. The Rhythm Clinic of Rhode Island Inc. was formed with the endorsement of Proxidence's BISHOP RUSSELL J. McVINNEV in June, 1964. WALT JOHNSON, president of Pritchard Wood Inc., was appointed senior \ice-p resident of The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. 
Robert G. Sanford -40 117 S. Stewart Ave. Lombard, HI. 

From the .Alumni Office: BILL SCHALLER w*rote in asking to be made a member of the '40 Class. So be it. Bill can be reached at 5200 N. Santa Monica Blvd., Milwau­kee 17, Wis. JOE CALLAHAN, 5331 E. Verde Lane, Phoenix, Ariz. 85018, also wants to be counted among the -' members of '40. From JIM ROGERS: "I have been watching the news under the Class of 1935, of which my brother ROBERT F. ROGERS is a member, and have noticed that they have been beating the drums for the June '65 Reunion for over one year—while the Class of '40 has been suffering from a sparsity of news. I do hope we have a good reunion and a good turnout for the Class of '40 in June. I met JOE CUMMINGS at a New York Club dinner ­in November, 'frl-. First time I had seen him in many years. He expects to be at the reunion. Also met JIM KELLY at a recent ND meeting and he hopes to be there. I also expect TONY •* CELLA and LEO SANTINI to be there. Many others from NY area such as GERRY SAEGERT, JOE DE FRANCO and JOHN KELLY will un­doubtedly be present. **I feel compelled to make a few remarks about 1 JIM BROWN'S comments about me in the last .ALtTsiNUS, which were inaccurate. "I do not 'roam' the country. The onlv man of '40 I ever met out of N'YC was GERRY , SAEGERT, who looked mc up in 1959 when I was stationed in New Orleans, La. "Many men of '40 are all in NY area a tele­phone call away from Broxx'n. We are all de­linquent in not sending in news to the ALVMNUS. The truth is there has been little news, as anyone who reads the column can attest to . . ." DICK BURKE %\'as one of six ND officials who toured Air Force bases in Alabama and Florida on a Afarch weekend to inspect education training programs and facilities. CREIGHTON MILLER is still handling the legal business for the National Football League Players Association. Thanks to retiring Secretary JIM BROWN for his long and frustrating years of service and best wishes to BOB SANFORD, who takes office at the Silver Jubilee Reunion. 
James F. Spellnuin 
•41 14 Deerfield Ave. Eastchester, N.Y. 

From the Alumni Office: We received a note from JERRY RYAN and .Mma saying they have registered their daughter at St. Mary's for the Class of 1970. They said many friends had written after their picture ap­peared in the last issue of the ALUMNUS. AL PERRINE has taken a position as national campaign director for the Mental Health Assn. Al was assistant director of the ND Foundation for New York City for the past four and a half years. DICK BALL, business adminbtration prof and head of the U. of Cincinnati finance dept., is editor of a new textbook entitled Readings in Investments. FRANK WEMHOFF wTotc an article for the January issue of Fortune magazine. JOHN MAXWELL HILL has been appointed \ice­
president and general manager of the Chemical div. of Union Carbide Corp. JIM NEWLAND, director of public relations, has been promoted to executive secretary of Indiana _ Highway Constructors, Inc. DICK MULLEN has bought controlling interest ^ in the firm of Drake Smith & Co. Inc., of which he w*as \ice-prcsident, in Bristol, Vt. Dick is now | president and treasurer. BOB WATERS designed a new leak detector for the General Electric Schenectady Co. that was named "new product of the j-ear" by Missiles and Rockets magazine. . « 
54 Notre Dame Alumnus^ July-August, 1965 
TERRE HAUTE — The Club had alumni and friends celebrating Universal Notre Dame Night at a dinner (left [Aoto). James 
V. "Jim" Gibbons, assistant director of public relations for the University, was the main speaker. Right: Fred G. Christman 
Jr. '43 (right) was named Man of the Year. 
GRAD .NEWS 
Congratulations to SISTER FRANCETTA BAR­BERIS, former president of Webster College at St. Louis, on her new job as full-time consultant and coordinator for the Job Corps Centers for Women. 
'4 2 ^^^^^^ ^- Hickey 
3333 West 45th Place Chicago, Hi. 
Have a nice letter from JOE RORICK, who b associated witli IBM at New York City and just recently Harrison, N.Y, As a result of the last change, the Roricks moved their home from Sands Point to Northwood Lane, Stamford, Conn. They have been in their new home several months now. Joe is manager of consulting scr\'ices in the Design and Construction Dept. of IBM's Real Estate and Construction Div. Although there is travel in\'oIved, it is usually of sucli a hunr-up nature he doesn't have much time to look up people. He does see JIM FAYETTE while in Burlington, Vt. Last fall Jim carried out a successful assignment as campaign manager for his brother who was running for Vermont Stale Senator. JOHN H.\NNIFIN, is manager of the IBM Domestic Patent Dept., and they see each other occasionally. The Rorick count is three boj-s, then two girls, and then tJirce more bo>-s for a total of eight. The oldest is 19 and the youngest is 5. Their second son, John, is now an ND student, and it's the first time in "umpteen years" that everyone is in school. 
ANDY GORKA is with Argonne National Labo­ratories near Lemont, III., associated with the Particle Accelerator Div. or the ZGS (Zero Gradient 'Syn­clirotron), which means they are in the atom smashing business. Andy's contribution to this world of strange things is in the line of controls and servo­mechanisms. At home there are four Gorkas—^.Andy, his wife Eunice, son Andy, and daughter Patricia, 11. Andy Jr. is a sophomore at ND in electrical engineering. Argonne affords Andy quite a few associates from ND: THADDEUS a\SSIDY *41, JOHN P. FITZPATRICK '35, and GEORGE NEIMEYER '62, to name a few. 
Also received a nice letter from LARRY KELLEY, who advises—"incidentally, I'm not sure that I have told you that DON O'BRIEN was promoted last year to the rank of captain in the Naval Reserve. He wtis a member of the Na\-y's 'Flying Irish 11' from our Class. Don is an account director in the Houston Office of &fcCann-Enckson Inc., «'hcre he super­x-iscs nationwide service on the Humble Oil {'Put a tiger in your Tank*) account. Also he has just been elected chairman of tlie Soutliwest Council Board of Governors, American Assn. of Advertising Agencies." 
From the Alumni OfHce: Secretary BILL HICKEY had a harrowing expe­rience in January when he received two letters threatening to bomb his home unless he paid $12,000. (They were not sent by the ND Foundation.) The Unemployed son of the Chicago police department's senior surgeon was arrested by the FBI, con­victed of cjctortton and placed on four-year pro­bation while undergoing psychiatric treatment. 

 He was presented the award by Bernard Burdick, a previous award winner. 
GEORGE SOBEK, camp director of the Chicago 
White Sox Boys* Camp, was the featured speaker 
at the Chicago White Sox Fan Club's gathering 
in April. 
GERALD OROSZ, chairman of the education 
dept. at Mt. St. Mary's College in Emmitsburg, 
Md., has been selected for membership on the 
committee of the Maryland State Conference on 
Education, 
CHARLES SHIRK was appointed district man­
ager of the Austin Co.'s Chicago district. 
JOHN MALONE, asst. dean of the college of 
business administration and assoc. prof of market­
ing management at ND, delivered a luncheon ad­
dress at the 27th annual meeting of the Mississippi 
Valley Classified Advertising Managers Assn. and 
the National Classified Super\-isors Assn. on Feb. 
20. He also spoke before 1700 members of the National Concrete Masonry Assn. annual conven­tion in Clc%'eland on Jan. 14- about service to the consumer rather than the generation of profits. 
CHARLES MULLIN, head of the physics dept. 
at ND, received a $45,905 grant from the AEC 
for the study of "Interaction of Photoas and Par­
ticles with Nuclei." 
COL. FRANCIS GABRESKI, /Vmerica's top liv­
ing air ace, returned to ND to speak as part of 
the Air Force Lecture Series here. 
JIM O'NEAL, vice-president of D'Arc>- Adver­
tising Co. since 1955, has been elected to the 
agency's board of directors. 
Our sympathy to Mr. and Mis. RAY EBLI 
on the loss of an infant son who died three days 
after his birth. 
GRAD NEWS 
REV. ^aCHAEL VICHURAS b to be congrat­ulated on his attaining 25 years in tlic holy priesthood. 
SR. AL\RY LUKE SL, superior general of the Sisters of Loretto, Nerinx, Ky., and one of the first American observers at the Ecumenical Council, received an honorary degree at the June com­mencement exercises here at ND. 
PAUL WACK MS, assoc. prof of ph>-sics at the 
U. of Portland, is director of tlic summer institute for high school teachers of science at Portland U. 
*4 2 Jack Wiggins 
5125 Briggs Ave. 
LaCrescenta, Cal. 
From the Alumni Oflice: 
REV. CHESTER SCHNEIDER CSC has been assigned to St. Joseph's Parish in South Bend as assistant pastor. 
H.ARRY O'MEARA, president of O'Meara Out­door Advcrtbing Corp. of Jersey City, b planning to reproduce one piece of fine art a year to be posted on vacant billboards as a tribute to the Johnson administration's beautification program. Hb first one is Thomas Gainsborough's "The Blue Boy'* on Route 3 near Secaucus, N.J. 
JOHN McDERMOTT has been promoted to manager of commercial production analysb and scheduling at IBM's Space Guidance Center in Os^vego, N.Y. 
JAY GIBSON has been admitted as a general partner, subject to approval of the New York Stock £.xcbange, ivith Schu-abacher & Co., where he b manager of the securities and investment banking firm. 

ED HANRAHAN completed hb first year in office as US attorney for northern Illinois and expressed confidence that federal law enforcemenr authorities arc waging a successful fight against crime, although much work remains to be done in the area of syndicated crime. 
Mi l JoMph A. Nenfdd T i P.O. Box 853 Green Bay, Vth, 

"Rise and Shine in '69,** the slogan adopted at our 20th class reunion and the appropriate theme for our silver jubilee four years hence, has started to pay dividends. The mail has picked up since the last column went to press and your secretary b most appredati^'c. There still b room for improve­ment, but that should come in due time. 
There Were several welcomed annual greetings. One was from former roominate and present barrister of Fargo, N-D., JERRY NILLES; another from FRITZ FUNK of LaCrosse, Wb. Neither had any 
. detailed news but no doubt the next installments will bring a good accounting of themselves and their families. President GEORGE BARISCILLO ivrote that all was fine in Deal Park, N.J. Recently he was elected president of hb local comity bar association. 
Trudging the streets of Green Bay, oblivious to everything, ivas PAUL McKINNEY of Appleton, Wb. An original '44er who was graduated after the war, Piml would prefer to be included in our class rosier. Another b JIM PADESKY, who was from LaCro£se when a student. He now lives in Moline, HI., and seUs a popular automobile. Previously he had been with a nationwide finance company, traveling much, of the Midwest. He and hb wife, a nurse whom he married in *51, are the parents of four ranging in age from ten to six. 
There w:is a note from Toledo's j m AL^LONE, who traveled to Modco for a holiday. During a stopover in Mexico City, he spent an afternoon with DICK LEON and hb ivife Ttta. Dick was bedridden ^vith a slipped disc. He was anxious to receive Jim*s firsthand report of last June's reunion, and vowed to be on hand for the big one in '69. Jim also mentioned that he heard from KELLY COOK, a major on duty as the US Air Force instructor at the Royal Air Force Academy in Lincolnshire, England. The Coc^ are the parents of a new son. 
TOM ROLFS jetted to Spain, Germany and England earlier thb year. The main purpose of hb trip ivas to inspect a new plant hb company opened in England. Tom explained the contusion over the proposed Hospitality Room at the Morris Inn after home games. Presently, arrangements arc under way to have accommodations in the new Center for Ad%'anced Studies. More details 'will appear in a future column. 
JOE FIEWEGER and hb oldest son Tom visited the campus. It was Joe's Gist trip back to ND in 15 years and he was thunderstruck trith the fabulous development of the place. WALUE CHRIST21AN oftentimes headquarters at the Morris Inn white on 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 55 
a, business trip in the area. ^Val^e drives evcr>'­u^cre in spite of tlie convenience and speed of more popular fonns of transportation. 
ED SOCKALSKI, Dcarboni> Mich., set a new record in the 43-yearH3ld St. Alphonsus Holy Name Bowling Lea^e with his three-game scries in the ABC totaling 750. It consisted of games of 288, 232 and 230; had 23 strikes, one split and the balance spares. He commented that he felt as if he had canned from scvcnt>*-fivc >*ards out for an eagle on a 540-yard par^fi\-c hole. It was quite an c\-cning. 
DR. JOSEPH FARRELL, Westport, Conn., has had busy years since he left ND. .After having been a research associate at MIT and an instructor at- ND, he received his doctorate from Cornell. Then Joe proceeded into industry- being with Kcllex Corp., General Foods, M. W. KcUogg Co, and .\merican llachinc & Foundry. Four years ago, he returned to teaching and presently is an associate professor of chemical engineering at Manhattan College in New York City. Last summer he was a research participant at the Oat Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies and previously had received granL= from the National Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Health. Joe and hb wife, Win, have sci'cn children (from 13 years down to a 20-monther). 
Your secretary hoped he might have run into ED NUGENT on the ski slopes of Winter Park, Colo., this spring because Ed isn*t too far away in Love­land, but luck wasn't with him. The spring skiing was tremendous and the after skiing soirees equally enjoyable. Perhaps a definite rendcn-ous with Ed can be made for next season. 
In the meantime, keep the mailbag full. If you '44er3 are too busy lo write, have your brides pen a note. Those perfumed epistles arc most welcome too, and the ones that have been received have been appreciated gready. Remember, too, "RISE AND SHINE IN *69." 
From the Alumni OfHce: RICHARD LEON has been laid up in bed with a slipped disk, which he said "could be from golf, bowling or roughhousing with the boys." DR. BILL KELLOW, dean of Hahnemann Med­ical College of Philadelphia, was the first speaker in the series of Science Centennial Lectures spon­sored by the Dept. of Prcprofessional Studies. FRANK ECK has been appointed \ice-prcsidcnt and general manager of resin products for Celanese Plastics Co. in Newark, N.J. AL McGUIRE has been named vice-president of operations for Stauffcr Chemical Company's plastics division in New York City. LYNDSAY deMANBEY has been named an as­sistant secretary of the casualty-fire underwriting dept. at the Travelers Insurance Co., Hartford, Conn. If you have a May 14 issue of Timt I)ing around, look for JOHN RYAN, who was fea­tured in an advertisement for Connecticut General Life Ins. Co. 
Frank M. linchan 
'45 General Electric Co. 600 Main St. Johnson City, N.Y. 

Class President JIM RETTER is touching all bases to be sure all is GO for our 20th Reunion— June II, 12 & 13. BILL KLEM, the Coca Cola King of South Bend, lias s'S'^o'^y consented to be Reunion chairman and has arranged an outstanding program. JIM DONNELLY, of Dynasoar fame, is still accepting the $3.00 dues assessment. 
HARRY WALTERS, who is in practice in Man­hattan with JACK O'BRIEN '45, is worring about his middle-age spread but uith a middle-age in­come—now drinks Scotch and water. 
Grand Forks, ND., finds JIM LAMB a practic­ing attorney and county Democratic chairman. Jim and Mary Jean have five boys. 
FR. BILL O'CONNOR is pastor at St. Francis Xavier, Burbank, Calif. We pass along our con­dolences and offer our prayers for DR. FRANK MARTIN'S brother. Bob '43, wiio died in Novem­ber. 
BILL WADDINGTON and Dorothy have a daughter, Mary Virginia, graduating from high school in June. Bill is publicadon director for L^har-Friedman Publishers in New York, 
CLARK FISHER is now "Your Honor." He is judge of Monmouth (N.J.) Court. Long active in cine affairs he has been a member of the Board of Adjustment, Borough coimcUman, and State assemblyman. Four boys make up Clark's and Mac's family. 
Dave Walsh will be one of the first to have a 
Spotlight Alumnus... 
BERNARD J. GHIGLIERI JR. '43 From Banking Family, a "Fed" 

Bernard Ghiglieri, attorney in Peoria, 111., and chairman of the Peoria County Re­publican Central Committee, was sworn in this spring as commissioner of the Peoria federal court. As U.S. commissioner, Bemie will conduct preliminary hearings for fed­eral charges and his duties will be expanded through recent legislation. 
Last fall the Spotlight featured his younger brother Jim, who had been elected president of the Citizens National Bank of 
son start at Notre Dame (fall of '65). Young Marie is quite a track star, holding the Catholic League of Washington, D.C., record for the mile and the half-mile. Track Coach Alex Wilson will be glad to see him. Dave and £ls3 have three other children. 
Marilj-n and DAVE CARTWRIGHT of aeve ­land Heights have eight children, and Dave holds forth at his own advertising and p.r. agency in Cleveland. 
Big BILL MCNEI L has just returned well tanned and rested from Florida and is getting ready for the Reunion weekend. The "Big Planner" ias yet to plan tlie big event of going down the long aisle. 
DAN SCHERR of Kansas Cit>-, Kan., is also planning on making the Reunion. 
DICK LEITE sent us his questionnaire and check for dues from Ann Arbor, Mich. Dick has his master's and Ph.D, from the U. of ^fichigan and is one of the top men at their Research Center, doing work for NASA and DOD. Dick and Barbara have two boys, Mark and Jcffery. 
From the George C. Marshall Space Flight Center at Huntsville, Ala., comes word from CHUCK S-ARTORE. He is with Chrysler and has been there almost seven ycare. Three boys make up Jane's and Chuck's family. 
FRANK CULHANE has moved from Chicago to Nashville, where he is president of GENESCO Transnational Co. 
BOB RIORDAN sends his regrets that he cannot arrange a business trip back to the States from Switzerland for cur Reunion but will be there in spirit. Maybe we can call him via Early Bird. 
BRO. FULGENCE DOUGHERTY is superior of the CSC Brothers in Dacca, East Pakistan. 
Be it by a GTO, Mustang, Scat Back, VW, Lake Central, South Shore, Pacemaker, Eastern, American, Chcv>-, Studcy or Cord, we will be looking for you at the Reunion June 11, 12 5c 13. , 
From the Alumni OfiSce: 
FR, DAN CURTIN CSC, master of novices at Sacred Heart Novitiate at Jordan, Minn., safely evacuated his novices when the Novitiate became an island in the recent floodings. 
Toluca, HI., and Bemie's appointment 
makes him indeed worthy of a similar fea­
ture. 
A native of Toluca, III., where his fam­

ily has long been active in the banking 
interests of the community, Bemie went 
into the Navy from the University. By the 
end of World War II he had attained the ­
rank of lieutenant (junior grade), ha\'ing 
served in the Pacific Fleet. Georgetown U. i 
awarded him an LL.B. degree in 1949, and i 
he was associated wth the Travelers In­
surance Co. in Peoria until he started his 
own law practice in 1951. 
He ser\'ed as president of the Notre Dame Club in Peoria in 1952 and was appointed chairman of the ND Foundation for the Peoria area by Father Hesburgh in 1954, a -­post which he held until 1960. It was Bemie who initiated the Ennio Arboit Memorial Trophy of the Notre Dame Club of Peoria, presented annually to the Mid-State Eight football champions on Universal Notre Dame Night. This traveling trophy is cov­eted by local high schools; standing four­and-a-half feet high and weighing over 50 ­pounds, the Arboit Trophy was presented this past year to Peoria Central High. 
Bemie has served as a director of Ex-" position Gardens in Peoria and \vas an as­sistant state's attorney from 1955 to 1958. He was elected treasurer of the Republican Central Committee in 1962 and ^vas re-­elected last year for another term. * 
In 1948 Bemie married the former Anne Bush of Lemont, 111,, and Rosary College, ., Their son Bernard is 15, and daughter Jane is 11. A fourth degree K of G, Bemie has been active on the bowling lanes and as an organizer of the "Gift for Yanks" program of the American Legion. 
FRANK "GENE" MQORE and his wife led the re-enactment of the Last Supper, which lasted about two hours, during Holy Week ceremonies in their parish. Gene made the symbolic cutting of the paschal lamb and e.xplained the meaning of each act during the supper. 
D.\VE CONDON was one of the participants in the Student Editors' Workshop held at ND in February. 
JOHN RYAN was named "Man of the Year" by his associates at the Minnesota branch ofHce of Connecticut General Life Ins. Co. for making the most outstanding contribution to his clients that reflects best on the life insurance industry and his community. 
Dean TOM BERGIN of the ND Continuing Edu­cation Center is doing research work on a book. 
Merit and Myth in Indujtriai Development. 
'dA ^^^ ^' ^*=^^^ 
60 Robin Place 
Old Greenwich, Conn. 

From the Alumni OiEce: DANARD UNSCHULD, stockbroker and financier, has been appointed special economic consultant to the mayor of New Rochclle, N.Y. TOM SCHREIBER, senior research phj-sidst in the chemistry dept. of GM Research Labs, wrote an article for the GM Engineering Journal on "The Electron Probe: An Instrument for the Chemical Analysis of Microscopic Samples.*' STAN IDZERDA has been appointed dean of the College at Wesleyan U. He is currently director of the Honors College at Michigan State 
U. and will assume his new post on July 1. 
>4 7 Jack Maes 

3218 Bcntley Lane South Bend, Ind. IN MEMORIAM: JACK QUINLAN If ever a freshman came to Notre Dame with his life's goals clearly lit ahead, it Wis JACK ­
56 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
QUINLANj he never u-antcd or planned to be other than a sports announcer . . . the best in the business. And if he didn't quite make it to the very pinnacle, it is only because of the tragic auto crash in Arizona March 19 which cut his great career short at the age of 38. 
Even in his campus days, when he delighted classmates with impromptu simulated sportscasts before class periods, he transmitted enthusiasm and infectious good humor together with keen knowl­edgeabilit)'. 
His make-believe football spiels in\*ariably ended with the scoring play: . . . "He burns, he chums, he twists, he turns; he's down to the five, the three, hc*s gone!" 
His merry mots found their mark with all of us and their echo in MICKEY PERELLA. Whatever Jack's jest, ^Hck alwaj-s extended the range of its reception Avith his adulatory " *Ja hear what Quinlan said?'* and a repeat of the gag. 
In your name, I have enrolled Jack in the Association of the Providential Proposal at the 
~ Fatima Retreat House on campus. I know you will add your prayers to all others being ofTcred for the repose of his soul and for the sustenance of his widow Maril>-n and their children. 
GLEANLNGS 

Another fine sports announcer, FRANK GIL­HOOLEY, returned to the scenes of his under­graduate deeds twice during the past winter . . . once to broadcast the Toledo-ND basketball game back to the Toledo area fans, and again to serve 
' as toastmaster at the annual testimonial banquet for JOHNNY DEE*s enatlc-but-alwaj-s-interesting hard­wt>od squad of 19&4-65. Gil looks fine, hasn*t shed 
. a strand from his luxuriant coifTure, and promises to write anon to fill us in on disa and data from his comer of the Buckeye state. 
Gil's old hardball sidekick, JACK MAYO, is still holding things down at the northeast tip of Ohio; how 'bout a report from Youngsto^vn, Jack, or a rundown on the Phillies' chances this year? 
The regular sheaf of address changes includes a cryptic communique from the East rc\'ealing that JIM GRIFFIN (the original Lord Jim) first moved from his E. 66 St. address in Manhattan to Stam­ford, Conn. . . . then a few months later moved back to Manhattan! You've lost touch, Jim; the Notre Dame shift is posse. (Most likely the move vs-as strictly on paper and resulted from a rare mistake in the Foundation office.) 
These moves definitely were made: BILL HABER­MANN from Watcrtown, N.Y. to Beloit. Wis.; BOB PAVLIN from Wilmington, Del., to Hinsdale, 111.; REV. JAMES FL.\NAGAN from ^Vest Roxbury, Mass., LARRY LYNCH frtjm Big D, and HUGH SKIDMORE from Palatine, 111., all to Kansas City, Mo.; Jim GOOLEY from Cranston, R.L, to Char­lotte, N.C.; PAT McCULLOUGH from Atlanta, Ga., to Chesterfield, Mo.; and BILL MANLY from Oak Ridge, Tenn., to Chappaqua, N.Y. 
The address memos also reveal CH.ARLES ROTH is with Van Alstyne, Noel & Co. in Denver, and BROTHER PEDRO HAERING CSC. at St. Thomas Aquinas (HS?) in Cleveland. 
AULES ON OBOE 

Pardon me if I repeat an item to toot my own horn briefly .. . by the way, they tell mc the proper definition of an oboe i *'an ill woodwind that nobody HOM-S good"—is that right, JOHN (MUSIC NLVN) FITZ HENRY? 
Anj-way, yr obt svt has authorized a 2500-word feature, "Tim McCar\*er, the Masked Mar%'el'* for the April run of The Catholic Boy . . . and if you think writing about the w*orId champs' great young backstop wasn't a labor of love for this long-time St. Louis Cardinal devotee, dumbesillch. 
ARMSTRONGUNA Yielding to no one in admiration for the salient uit and unfailing sparkle radiadng from the agile mind and ample anatomy of oiur beloved alumni secretary-, I hasten to pass along to you the best of the classic remarks he unloaded while burning the toast at the recent Knute Rockne >[cmorial Com­munion breakfast. Alluding to the \-arious liturgical revisions in the Church, he devastated hts 200 listeners with quips about his projected floating Rosary, his embrjonic organization for bootlegging holy cards, and his plan for prc-Mass periods of calisthenics, bell ringing, and looking at the priest's back (for "old Catholics" only), then capped the climax when he introduced All American guard JACK CANNON and his brother DAN: "It's nice to meet a pair of Can(n)on5 which haven't been tampered with by the Council!" BENGAL inSSIVE Here are pertinent excerpts from a letter received from BROTHER IVAN DOLAN, C.S.C. at dead­line: 
AVILLIAM T. DWYER '45 introduces Mark Freeman (center) as "Mr. Cancer Crusader" to Illinois Governor Otto Kemer (right). Dwyer, who is vice-president of The First National Bank of Chicago^ is Illinois chairman for the Cancer crusade. 
". . . The number of bo}3 and girls in the high school is now up to 230. I feel like I am back in business again, running a real school. For most of the kids, I have had to buy their books; many of them are wearing clothes I gave them; most of them I am letting read (that means 'attend' or 'study* over here) free in the school. We have about 83 bo>-s residing in the hostel. All In all, there is more than enough work to keep Bro. Brian and myself busy. 
"Some of the class of '47 I have heard from rccenUy are: JIM W. KELLY, JIM GRIFFIN, JIM FITZGERALD, JIM REGAN, JOHN L. BARTOLOMEO, and PAT J. McCULLOUGH. All of these arc good and generous friends, and I thank them from the bottom of my heart. . . ." 
EN FIN 
If YOU don't write \Ve'U me it 'Cause no one else WiU do it! 

From the .Alumni OlEce: JIM McCORMICK, pathologist and laboratory director of Swedish Covenant Hospital in Chicago, delivered a Centennial of Science lecture at ND in April. He spoke on "Pathology: The Scientific Detective of Medicine" under the auspices of the department of preprofesslonal studies of the Col­lege of Science. JIM SHERIDAN, mortgage super\'isor and ap­
praiser of the East River Savings Bank in NYC, attended the pilot class of the new mortgage opera­tions school of the National Assn. of Mutual Sav« ings Bank in Meriden, Conn. 
iJlO George J. Kcaum 
177 RoUiog Hnis Rd. 
difton, N.J, 
It's the end of March and time to get the material 

together that will appear in the early sununer 
edition of the ALUMNUS. The material is getting 
thinner each month, and I know that if I waited 
any longer I would not be getting any more infor­
mation, so we'll run with what we have to date. 
This column is just like a team and if you don't 
have the material you just don't have a representative 
column. Most ot the information these days is coming 
from the newspaper and not from members of the 
Class from whom we should be expecting it. 
ED DIOGUARDI 15 recognized as one of the top 

young baseball coaches in the East and his record 
at Montdair State has been sensational. He has been 
at Montclair State for 16 yean during w^ich time 
his teams have won 220 games for a 13-6 average. 
He was named "Coach of the Year" In the New 
Jersey State College Conference in 1964 and his 
Montclair State Indians won the Conference Tide. 
ED KENEFICK has just been promoted to vice-president of CBS' Television Stations Division and is general manager of WBBM In Chicago. 
In addition to our friends at the Chase Manhattan it is nice to know that we aUo have so many at CBS, including JOHN SCHNEIDER, who has recently been named president of the Columbia Broadcasting Tele^rasion NetwiOrk. In this new portion at CBS, John has perhaps the biggest job in tele­lislon in America and he has our sincere congratula­tions and best wishes for success in this new position. We can certainly expect to be hearing a lot about John this year and each time you watch a CBS Televiuoa program you can recall that one of our classmates has a very important part In bringing that program to your home. The Class of '48 has quite a few men in the television industry in addition to the sports commentators, and among them we have DAN GENTILE with RCA Victor, ED KENEFICK at WBBM and myself wth Westing­house. 
Had a fetter from JACK SWEENEY, formerly of Santa Fe, N.Af., and now living in Los Alainos, and he tells us that he is with the U. of California there and has been so connected for the past 15 years. Jack took in the Air Force-ND game In Colorado Springs and met with all the team and coaching staff while there. Although Jack was not a member of the Class of '48, he was a mascot to many of its distinguished members. 
A letter from TOM HIGGINS brings us to the sad news ot the death of TOM JACKSON. An illness of about seven months with cancer was the cause 
ROBERT G. BRO>VN '46, MS '48, program director for the Titan If missile, Bew his wife and 12 children down to St Croix, Virgin Islands, for an Easter vaca­tion. Participating in a tropical Easter egg hunt were: (l--r-) Jeff, 15; Uz, 6; Mrs. Brown; Bobby, 2; Pat, 17; Tom, 1; Bridget, 11; Bob Sr.; EBen, 2; Paul, 10; Mike, 18; Laura, 5; Marty, 9; Peggy, 13; and Charles Goit, owner-manager of Cane Bay Plantation. Bob is ^vith GM electronics division in Milwaukee, Wis. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ July-August, 1965 57 
of his uathneiy death on Feb. 9. Tom w-as a 
Commerce School gnid and a real loyal ND man. 
He is survived by his wife and two \-ounssters. His 
xc»dence was at 837 Chase Road, Hamilton, Ohio, 
and if any members of the Class would Ultc to 
express their sj-ropathy to his uife, Cay, wc know 
that it will be appreciated. A Afass was offered on 
April 3 for Tom at Notre Dame and we arc sure 
tluit his many friends in the Class of 1948 will also 
remember him in their prayers. 
We are also saddened to read in the newspaper 
the same day that wc write this column about the 
dcaUi of JOHN C. (JACK) QUIXLAN, who was 
killed in an automobile accident in Mesa, Ariz., on 
March 19. Jack was tlic ChJcaso Cubs sportscastcr 
and was in Mesa, where the Cubs were in spring 
training, when this accident occurcd. Jack began 
covering the Cubs in 1952 when he joined the late 
Bert Wilson on WIND, and in 1958 he joined 
WGN in Chicago and had been with the station 
since. He is sur\"ivcd by his wido\%', Maril>'n, and 
four children. The prayers and s>Tnpathy of Uic 
Class of 1948 are extended to his family and wc 
know that his untimely passing will be felt by his 
many friends and listeners in radioland. 
JOE WILCOX, the real JOE WILCOX of Albion, 
Mich., the dty attorney of Springfield, Mich., and 
public administrator of Calhoun Count>', Midi., 
the practicing attorney in .-Mblon, Mich., the ancillary 
resident of Kalhaska, Mich., author of the .Apocry­
pha of Nicodcmus" (Scholastic, 1946-48), etc., etc., 
writes that he misplaced my address and now wants 
to be the member No. 2 of the Class reunion who 
has written with some information in reply to the 
questionnaire sent out about nine monliis ago. Joe 
tells us that he has seen BURT APKER, who is 
practicing law- in Phoenbc, and also JIM (RED) 
CLARK, the dt>' attorney in Dclphos, O. In his 
letter Joe more or less reveals for the first time tlial 
he alone and unaided was the author of the 
"Apocrypha." Wc are sure that for these past 17 
years many members of the Class wtre wondering 
who this great person was, and now wc kno\v! 
Alas, Joe, we arc pleased to hear after all this time 
that it was a member of the Class of '48 who wtis 
the author of these great works. Wc sincerely hope 
that copies of the "Apocr^plia of Nicodcmus" are 
enshrined in the new library along with other 
medievai works and because of >"our great affection 
towards this new and famous building on the 
campus. 
LARRY RYAN has moved from Dallas to HUls­dale, N.J.; BILL FITZHARRIS is now living in Kings Piirk, N.Y.,- DICK ELLIOTT is now in Troy, C ; HUGH GOOD moved from Rochester, N.Y., to Champaign, HI.; ORVILLE DUNN is now in Bellc­vuc. Wash., on a move from New Orleans; BOB FLANNERY now resides in Decrfield, III., after a long residence in Milwaukee; DICK K.-\Y5ER is in White Plains, N.Y., and many more changes in address, etc., could be listed but we would like to know where YOU are and what you are doing. How-about letting us hear from you? 
From tlie Alumni Office: DON KERSTEX lias announced the formation of a partnership for the general practice of law in Fort Dodge, Io»-a. The firm's name is Kcnien, Ophdm & Price. FR. JOHN REEDY CSC, editor of Ave Maria, gave the welcome and keynote address for the first Symposium on Professional Journalism spon­sored by tlie AT) Scholastic. CHARLES OWENS of Edwardsburg, Mich., has been selected as one of about 150 business and governmental executives from the US, Canada and abroad to participate in the 47th session of the Ad\-anced Management Program of the Hanrard 
U. Graduate School of Business Administration. 
ED FLATTERY, practidng attorney in Fort Dodge since 1948, lias been appointed a judge of the 11th Judicial District of Iowa by tlie governor. 
GEORGE CONNOR wtis the principal speaker at the 19th annual South Bend Shrine Club foot­ball banquet in Februar>'. 
BILL ETHRIDGE has been appointed assistant director of industrial relations for Blaw-Knox Co. 
NOEL DIGBY has been elected a director of Gardner Advertising Co. (St. Louis office) and named head of domestic corporate creative senices for the agency's three US offices. . , 
PETE PESOLI, assodaic prof of English at St. Edward's U., has been elected to the executive coundl of the newly formed Texas Regional Con­ference of the American Assn. of Univcrsit\- Pro­fessors at a meeting held at Baylor U. 
BILL VOLL is the chairman of the Citizens for Decent Literature of St. Joseph Count>-, Ind. JIM OBERFELL, South Bend attorney, was seated as thrice potent master of the South Bend 
58 Notre Dame Alumnus, Jufy'August, 
SpofKcpht Alumni... 

JOHN A. SCHNEIDER '48 EDWARD R. KENEFICK'48 National Champ Classmates at ND, National Communication Teammates at CBS-TV 
The shakeup of March 1 in the CBS Television Network received the kind of headlines one would expect on a leadership purge at the Kremlin. And rightly so, since CBS-TV is a $400-million-a-year empire in which the New York Yankees are only an auxiliary enterprise. CBS Inc. Board Chairman William Paley and Presi­dent Frank Stanton suddenly fired Harvard-educated James -Aubrey Jr. and replaced him with Irish-educated John Schneider, a division vice-president and general man­ager of the New York home station WCBS­TV. 
The volatile -Aubrey, whose arbitrary programming methods had made him the \nllain of Merle Miller's best-selling satire Only You, Dick Daring, had a reputation for autocratic ruthlessness and hostility to­wards the press that earned him the epithet "Jungle Jim." Schneider, a relative new­comer to network television but already kno\vn as a smooth team player, promptly called a coffee-and-doughnuts press con­ference at which he wisecracked ("I'm 38 now, but I'll be 55 next week"), enunciated a personal credo ("Entertain me .. . in­form me . . . educate me . . . it's all in the mix .. . I won't stand for parsing this totality") and stated his hopes for stemming the CBS local-rating nosedive with a generous use of the personal pro­noun "we." The trade press ivastcd no time in dubbing him "Genial John" and head­lining: "Only You, Jack Schneider." 
One of the first administrative decisions beside fall programming (e.g., retaining poorly rated but prestigious "Slattery's People" to replace the tired "Defenders") was calling the general manager of Chi­cago's WBBM-TV to New York to man­age WCBS-TV and naming classmate Ed Kenefick a vice-president of the CBS Tele­vision Stations division and general man­ager of the Chicago affiliate. 
Both Jack and Ed arc products of the vantage National Football Championship year at ND that produced CBS-TV sports­casters (and AU-Americans) John Lujack and George Connor. 

1965 
-After a year in outdoor advertising. Jack •" Schneider entered broadcasting in 1949 with WGN, Chicago, worked briefly in adver­tising with NBC outlet WMAQ, and joined ' CBS in 1950 as an account executive in ­the Chicago office of tele\'ision national { sales. In 1952, he was appointed an ac­count executive in the New York national ^ sales office, then Midwestern sales manager and Eastern sales manager. In June, 1956, he became general manager of CBS Tele­vision Stations national sales in New York. Two years later, when CBS Inc. acquired "j WCAU-TV, Philadelphia, he became gen-' eral manager of that station and soon boosted it from third to first in the city. 1 
In 1959 Jack was elevated to vice-presi­dent of the CBS Television Stations Divi­sion and general manager of WCAU-TV. In September, 1964, he went to New York as general manager of WCBS-TV, retain­ing his Mce-presidency of the division. 
Jack, a native of Chicago, earned BNS ^, and BS degrees at Notre Dame, majoring in sales and marketing. He is married to the former Elizabeth Simpson. They have j three children and live in Greenwich, Conn. During World War II he ser\'ed as a V-12 officer trainee and destroyer officer in the m Naval Reserve from 1943 to 1947. -1 
Ed Kenefick has been general sales man­ager of WBBM-TV since 1960. Prior to coming to Chicago, Ed was a member of ~ the WCBS-TV sales staff for a year. From 1957 to 1959, he was an account execu­tive with NBC-TV spot sales in New York. He also was associated with George " 
R. HoUingbery Co., a station representa­tive organization. *' 
A graduate in physical education Ed was • a special agent of the FBI for three years. During 1951 he was assigned to the Chi­cago office of the Bureau. ~ 
Ed also served as educational advisor for' ^ the Alexander Hamilton Institute in New ^ York and was head football coach at Mt. ^ Carmel Toivnship High School in eastern Pennsylvania. While at Mt. Carmel, he was voted regional Coach of the Year for 1948. ­
Lodge of Pcrfecuon of the organizations that make up the South Brad Valley of Scottish Rite at the Masonic Temple in May. 
BILL BONWICH, associate prof of marketing management at ND, was selected to participate in the Visiting Professors* Case ^fethod Program at the Harvard Graduate School of Busiticja Adminis­tration June 20 to Aug. 13. 
BRO. RAPHAEL WILSON CSC, assistant pro­fessor of biology, received a grant of $19,710 from the US Atomic Energy Commission for a study of ''Afechanisms Involved in the Action of Radia­tion on Living Cells." 
Leo L. Wesley 
•49 
155 Driftwood Lane RochesteT 21, N.Y. 

From the Alumni Office: HALDAN TOMPKINS u-as appointed musical director and organist at St. Peter in Cliains Cathe­dral, Cincinnati, after ser\'ins as director of music at Christ the King Church in Oklahoma City for five and a half years. He will also serv'e as musical director of the Archbishop's Boys* Choir School. Several of the Masses and hymns he has composed have been published. Haldan and Mary Ellen have four children. Maj. JOE DOYLE USAFR «-as returning to South Bend after weekend duty at Bakalar AFB at Columbus, Ind., when his plane, a C-119 Flying Boxcar, had to weave in and out to pass between the two tornadoes that struck Northern Indiana with so much destruction on Palm Sunday. A picture of the plane skirting a thunderhead just south of South Bend appeared on the front page of the South Bend Tribune, of which Joe is sports editor. He was also named ND Man of the Year for the St. Joseph Valley. EARL YEAGLEY, South Bend, Ind., has joined Miles Laboratories Inc., Elkhart, as senior attorney. JACK PIERCE has been elected ncc-president of sales for the Celina (Ohio) Insurance Group. Jack and Dona Lou have three children. KARL ACKERMAN has received a promotion in the US Foreign Serx-ice. Karl is presently ser\*­ing in Washington as an international relations officer in the Office of Atlantic Political and Mili­tary AiTair^ of the Department of State. Karl and Marjoric have six children: Stephen, 11; Karl, 9; Theresa, 8; Kristin, 6; John, 5; and Paul, 2. MARTIN ZERNICK, Easton, Pa., formerly of South Bend, has been named president of Ny­tronics Inc., New Jersey manufacturer of electrltnl components. Maurer and Maurcr, South Bend architects and engineers, have changed their name to Maurer, Van R>-n, Ogden & Natali Inc. ED VAN RYN is secrctar>--treasurer of the corporation. R.\Y SOBOTA was named 1965 Heart Fund chairman for Forty Fort, Pa. Ray's wife is assist­ing him in the drive. Ray is also president of the ND alumni club in Ijis area and vice-president of the Anthracite FI>-ing Club. CHARLES CAIN was elected vice-president of marketing and a member of the board of directors of Koret of California Inc. Charles, his wife and five children arc living in Menio Park, Calif. JOHN BODLE of West Lafayette has been elected to the board of directots of General Tele­phone Co. of Indiana. John and Mary have six children. CALLIX MILLER has been named vice-president of the facilities div. of International Minerals and Chemical Corp. in Skokie, III. He ^\-ill be in charge of the design, construction and operation of IMC's commcrcbl facilities around the world. The company is the world's brgest producer of chemical fertilizers and fertilizer materials. CallLx and his family live in Glcnvicw, HI. 
BOB MANNIX, senior economist with Humble Oil & Refining Co. in Houston, has been named chairman of the Committee on Petroleum and Natural Gas of the Advisory Council on Federal Reports. 
GEORGE PATTERSON, former deputy director of American Machine & Foundry Company's per­sonnel and industrial relations div., lias been ap­pointed the division's vice-president. George, his wife, and seven children are living in Northport, N.Y. 
BILL LYMAN, copy supervisor for Leo Burnett Co. Inc., has been made associate creative director. 
JOHN GRIMES was promoted in the US Foreign Service and is serving as consular officer for the consulate in Glasgoxv. Since entering the Foreign Service in 1949 he has been stationed at our Embassies in Cairo, Paris, Manila, Panama and Frankfurt. 
John and Rachel have three children: John Patrick, 
Spotlight Alumnus... 
DR. JOHN PHILIP UTZ '44 From D.C. to Va., Bug Specialist for PHS 
Recent popular articles in newspapers and Sunday supplements about cholera, influ­enza, polio and typhus (and many other afflictions of mankind whose virulence has earned the dread name of plague) are the result of investigations in a key comer in the National Institutes of Health, the Pub­lic Health Sen-ice of the US Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. Direct­ing these investigations for the past 13 years has been John P. Utz, MD, chief of the Infectious Disease Section, Laboratory of Clinical Investigation, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, who re­signed June 1 to become professor of medi­cine at the Medical College of Virginia, Richmond, Va. 
In May Jack had a pleasant working holiday in London as guest of the Royal College of Physicians, addressing a con­ference on "The Treatment of Candida Infections." 
Jack and his brother Phil '48 (a physi­cian practicing in LaCrcsccnt, Minn.) 
11, bom in Paris; Sheila Mary, 10, bom in Frank­furt; and Jacques Thomas, 4, born in Panama. 

DICK BUSTIX has been promoted to major in the USAF at Randolph AFB, Te.x. Dick is a weapons s>-slem training officer at headquarters, Air Training Command. 
BILL FISCHER recently moved to 2515 Pickard Circle, Green Bay, Wis., with his family. He is with the Chevrolet zone division of General Motors Corp. 
John W. Thornton 
'50 
4400 Monserratc St. Coral Gables, Fla. 

From the Alumni Office: WSBT-TV newscaster ROLAND KELLY was toastmastcr for the South Bend Hibernians' St. Patrick's Day. GUS GIFELLI w'as considering the job of head football coach of the Grand Rapids Blazers, members of the new Professional League of America. It has been suggested that the official title of "Mr. Indispensable" be given to LOU KREMS, baseball's National League assistant secrctarj'-treasurer. LYLE PEARSON has been named general manager 
seemed headed towards medicine from their 
birth in Rochester, Minn., where their late 
father was for many years business manager 
of the Mayo Clinic. At Notre Dame Jack 
was an intramural debating teammate of 
two other recent spotlightees. Bob Galvin 
of Motorola and Judge Bill Lawless of the 
New York Supreme Court. Attending from 
1940 to 1943, he transferred to North­
western for a couple of accelerated semes­
ters as a premedic which eased him into 
Northwestern Medical School for an MO 
in 1946. 
Straight internship at Massachusetts Me­

morial Hospital in 1946-47 was followed by 
his first taste of immunology as a researcher 
at the National Institutes' Laboratory of 
Infectious Diseases, which also won him an 
MS in bacteriology from Georgetown in 
1949. He then returned to Rochester for 
three years' residency as a fellow in medi­
cine with the Mayo Foundation. The ap­
prenticeship on "bugs" proved to be habit-
forming, and in 1952 he returned to Wash­
ington as chief of the Infectious Disease 
Service, which he has administered ever 
since. 
The job has had many interesting side­

lines, including consultancies to the Dept. 
of State for EI Salvador and Costa Rica, 
Central .'\merica, in 1953 and 1954 and a 
recent term as Wsiting investigator at the 
Pasteur Institute, Paris. It has also per­
mitted academic appointments as instructor, 
assistant and associate professor at the 
Georgetown School of Medicine and lec­
turer for the Howard U. dept. of preven­
tive medicine, which led to his new post 
at Virginia. Jack is certified with the 
.-American Board of Internal Medicine and 
a member of a baker's dozen of specialist 
societies in addition to the medical associa­
tions. He has authored or collaborated on 
nearly 100 papers and articles in medical 
journals, official publications and the En­
cyclopedia Americana. 
Jack was married in 1947. His wife Dorothy is a nurse whom he met while interning in Boston. They have a daughter and foin: sons, aged 16, 13, 13, 9 and 7. He has been a director of the Bethcsda­Che\-y Chase Rotary Club and active in the Brooke Society, a Catholic professional men^s society Jn Washington. 
of Torginol of America Inc., manufacturer of scam-less resilient flooring in Huntington Park, Calif. 
TOM VAIL was elected president of the Centml Jersey chapter of the New Jersey Society- of Ardu­tects in January. 
VAL REISIG \%'as appointed advertising manager of Eastman Chemical Products Inc., a subsidiary of Eastman Kodak Co. 
JIM CREAMER was appointed manager of sales staff operations for New" Departure-Hyatt Bearings Div. of GM on May I. He is presently located at the company's offices in Bristol, Conn., but will eventually transfer to the firm's newly established divisional headquarters in Sandusky, Ohio. 
GRAD NEWS BOB SIERON MS is the new general marketing manager—polymers div. in the marketing dept. of .Amoco Chemicals Corp. in Chic^o. 
VINCENT GIESE MS, former lay apostle, author, journalist, and member of the educational board of Fides publishers, was ordained a priest in Rome on April 3. Fr. Giese celebrates his fint Solemn Mass of Thanksgiving on July IS in Chicago at St. Francis de Paul Church and then returns to Rome for a year of studies before being assigned as a parish priest in Chicago. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 2965 59 
•C I Robert Klingcnbcigcr 1927, in Philadelphia, where he attended 9 1 3405 Thames Dr. public and parochial schools. He was grad-
Spotlight Alumnus... 
Ft. Wayne, Ind. 

From the Alumni OfiGcc: FR. JOE HOFFMAN CSC, acting director of admissions, finished his 1965 selection and attended the annual meeting of the Assn. of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions OfHccrs in Chicago in April. DAN CONNELL, South Bend lawyer, has been sworn before the Supreme Court of ^fichigan and authorized to practice !n Michigan state courts. HENRY SHINE, legisbtivc director of the Na­tional Assn. of Home Buildets since 1961, has been named director of the National Housing Center in Washington, D.C. BOB CULLIGAN has been appointed advertising and merchandising manager for the photographic products group of 3M Co. JOHN GERLITS u-as elected an assistant vice president of The Exchange National Bank of Chicago rccenUy. Congiatulattons to JIM FRICK on becoming one of the two first lay vice-presidents at ND. NORil KOPEC, South Bend attorney, has been appointed to a new Superior Court judgeship in St. Joseph County by the governor of Indbna. The wife of JOHN HALEY was featured in an article in the diocesan paper recently on her training of volunteers for the Red Cross in Fort \Va>-ne, Ind. JOHN GAINES feeds the dogs and then goes home (in Kentucky] to breed his thoroughbred race horses. He recently formed two different syndi­cates and owns some of the top horses from Cali­fornia. 
Harry L. Buch 
'52 
600 Board of Trailc BIdg. Wheeling, W.Va. 

From the Alumni Office: RAY SLYMAN has been promoted by Mutual of New York to director of field projects on its home office sales staff. He had been manager of the life and health insurance Co's. Davenport, Iowa, agenc>'. BOB STEFKOVICH has been named assistant product manager for golf and tennis by MacGregor Sports Products in Cincinnati. He will be responsible for overall planning and de\'elopment of all golf and tenius product lines and the markeung concepts for this product group. JOHN MOHAR has been named to the newly created position of outdoor advertising supcr\*isor for Cities Service Oil Co. John was transferred from Cleveland, Ohio, to Tulsa, Okla. The ND Qiib of Dearborn, Mich., recenUy went to bat for ALBERTO SAL.\ZAR in January. Al and his family have recently been granted a Canadian cmpIo)'ment visa, and he is currently attempting to obtain a travel permit through Mcxio. However, as you probably know, Cubans granted exit visas are not allowed to take many of their worldly possesions with them when they leave. Therefore, the family %rill be largely dependent upon charit>' and personal loans until they get well established in their new suiToundings. The Club attempted to obtain employ­ment for Al in the Windsor area upon his arrival in Canada. Tliey will also provide the family with some basic necessities to help them get off to the right start. They may still need outdde help. A fund in AI's name has been established with the Manu­facturers National Bank of Detroit. 
JOHN POWERS, managing editor of the South Bend Tribune, gave one of the opening speeches and appeared on the panel for the First ND S>-m­posium on Professional Journalism in February. 
Capt BILL DELANEY has been awarded the USAF Outstanding Supply Officer Certificate at Kelly AFB, Tex., for 1965. 
RUSS BROWN MA was promoted to the rank of associate prof of music at Western Michigan U. 
•C n DaWd A. McEIvain 2328 Alexander Terrace Homewood, IlL 

From the Alumni Office: LOU CAVANAUGH has been promoted in the Foreign Service. He has been at the American Consulate in Nago>*a, Japan, and at the American Embassy Japanese Language School in Tokyo. He will be commercial officer at the American Consulate General in Osaka, Japan. BILL BERRY, asst prof of electrical engineering at ND, was selected to receive a summer faculty fdlowship for 1965. He will engage in research in 
THOMAS C. McGRATH JR. '48 From Jersey's Second, a Pbilly First 
One of a small exclusive club of ND 

members, Thomas McGrath was elected to 
the United States Congress from South Jer­
sey (2nd District) in one of the real upsets 
of the 1964 elections. Since Tom was the 
first Philadelphia Club member to be elected 
to Congress, the Club threw a celebration 
party on Dec. 12 at Cherry Hill Inn. 
Governor Hughes and other prominent 
people were invited. Chairman Bart John­
son blurbed: "Tom McGrath has been a 
hard worker for our Club and served as 
an ofEcer. He's also a swell guy. Make up 
a party and come. Democrats, Republicans, 
Prohibitionists and Ladies all are welcome." 
Rep. McGrath was bom on April 22, 

the area of power systems for space vehicles at the NASA Lewis Research Center in Cleveland, Ohio. JIM SILK has been appointed assistant trust ofHcer of the National Bank of Toledo. 
GENE SMITH has been named to head the Milwaukee agency of the Mutual Benefit Life Ins. Co. of Newark, N.J. 
The JOHN STOEPPLERs had a son on May 12, 1963, which we missed in the birth notes. 
DICIC DOUGLAS has been promoted to branch manager of the Chicago sales office of Honeywell's electronic data processing div. Dick will direct sales activities in the largest sales oiHce maintained by the company. 
FRANK EPSTEIN has been named a sales pro­motion manager for Bacardi Imports, Inc., in their Metropolitan Chicago district. 
EUGENE ZIMFFER was ordained a priest in the Society of Jestis on June 10 at Canisiiis College. Fr. Zimpfer celebrated his first solemn Mass at St. Stanislaus Church in Buffalo, N.Y. on June 20. This summer he has pastoral assignments and will return to Wooflstock College for his final year of theology. 
NORM FELTES has been named assocbte prof of English at Emory College starting this fall. AL DcCRANE was moved from Houston to New York by the Texaco Co. 
GRAD NEWS PANOS BARDIS iLA was married December 25, 1964, in Augsburg Lutheran Church, Toledo, to Miss Donna Jean Decker. FRANCIS BALDWIN PhD, who has been issued 46 US patents, ^vas honored for his outstanding achic\'cmcnts as an inventor at an April 15 dinner given by Esso Research and Engineering Co. in commemoration of the 175th anniversary of the signing of the first US patent law. 
tiated from St. Joseph's Preparatory School, Philadelphia, in 1944,* having majored in the classics. He studied chemical engineer­ing at Notre Dame for a year, leaving to serve in the US Na\y as an enlisted man in World War 11. In 1943 he was appointed to the Naval Academy at Annapolis, where he graduated with the class of 1950. 
From 1950 to 1954, Tom served in the .Atlantic and Pacific Fleets, winning five battle stars while serving on the USS Mis­souri during the Korean fighting. He is qualified for command at sea, having served as acting commanding officer of LSM 397, and presently holds a Naval Reserve com­mission as lieutenant. 
Tom attended the U. of Pennsylvania 
Law School from 1954 through 1957, grad­
uating with an LL.B. degree. While at­
tending school, he worked nights as an 
electronics engineer in the flight test de­
partment of the Piasecki Helicopter Co. He 
practiced law in Philadelphia with the law 
firm of Dechert, Price, and Rhoads from 
1957 to 1963. A proctor in Admiralty, he 
is also admitted to practice before the 
Supreme Courts of the United States, New 
Jersey and Pennsylvania. He is a member 
of the law firm of McGahn and McGrath, 
with offices in Atlantic City, N.J. Tom be­
longs to the American, New Jersey, and 
Pennsylvania Bar Assns. He served his 
New Jersey law clerkship in the office of 
the attorney general of New Jersey and 
was appointed a Deputy Attorney General, 
counsel to the Divisions of Shell-Fisheries 
and Pensions, Departments of Agricidture, 
Labor & Industry, and Banking & Insur­
ance. 
Congressman McGrath is married to the former Betty Butler and resides at 110 South Kenyon Avenue, Margate City, N.J. He is a member of the Blessed Sacrament Church in Margate. 
'KA Mnton J. Bcaudinc 21 Signal HiU Blvd. 
E. St. Louis, HI. 

Deadline time again — ugh! No mail, as usual. What's with you guys? Help! 
I sure hope you have ordered your tickets for the Northwestem-ND game on Oct. 2, 1965. There will of course be a party afterwords, and it would be nice to sec some new faces. How about it, JACK PITTAS and JOHN GROSSPIETCH? 
Unbelievably, the mailman did bring one letter; the unbelievable part was that it was from JOHN GROSSPIETCH. The Gross b now an account supervisor for MacManus, John & Adams Inc., an advertising firm. John handles the financial and corporate advertising for the Standard Oil Co. (Indiana) plus advertising for Standard's subsidiary, the American Oil Co. John loves it. 
ED MADIGAN reported on the USC disaster. His old roomie LARRY CORBETT, stationed at Camp • Pendleton, was also at the game, but Ed and Larry unhappily missed connecting. Ed reports seeing RAY TILLEY at the rally the night before. Ray is with GE in L.A. and still a bachelor [tsk, tsk, you . bad guys). Ed is president of the Northern California Chib and indicates tliat there will be "Big Doings" before the ND-Cal. game on Sept. 18. Ever^-one is invited. -­
JOHN H. MCGINN was elected mayor of Light­house Point, Fla. Right on the heels of that honor, * he was selected by the Pompano Beach Jaycees as Man of the Year for community service. 1 
By the by, I've moved again (across to\ra} to 21 Signal HOI Blvd., E. St. Loju, 111. Write. 
Good old TOM FIELD and his "G.P. Poop Sheet," a collection of letters passed around and written individually by the 1954 General Program ' 
60 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
Spotlight Alumnus... 
EARL W. YEAGLEY JR. '49 
Now Senior Seltzer Solicitor 
This spring Earl Yeagley joined Miles Laboratories of Elkhart^ Ind., as senior at­

- tomey after 15 public-spirited years in pri­r vate law practice in South Bend and as the staff attorney in Northern Indiana for the , Kemper Insurance Group. His effervescence is suited to the home of Alka Seltzer, a leading manufacturer of pharmaceuticals, diagnostics, dermatologicals and chemicals. 
He took pre-law at Ball State Teachers 

- College before taking his LL.6. from the Notre Dame Law School magna cum laude. He is a member of the Indiana State and 
' St. Joseph County Bar Associations. 
Extremely active in community affairs. Earl is a former member of the Board of Directors of the South Bend Kiwanis Club and is presently a director of Camp Mill-house, a camp for crippled children near 
"" South Bend. He scn'ed as information di­rector for the Salk polio \'accine field trials in St. Joseph County and is a past presi­dent of the St. Joseph County Society for 
r Crippled Children and the St. Joseph Coun­ty Chapter of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis. He has also held posts as county and city chairman of the March of Dimes. 
Earl is a major in the US.AF Reserve, attached to the Judge Advocate General's Department. He served for four years dur­ing \Vorld War II and was a pilot in the China-Burma-India theater of operations. 
He commutes from Elkhart to his wife Eileen and their two children at 53255 
^ Flicker Lane in South Bend. 
grads. GEORGE PFLAUM loaned mc his copy for this issue. George is s>7npathctic to a secretary's problems and knew that the "G.P. Poop Sheet" would be a s^^Iscnd. Thanks, George. 
^ FR. DAVE BURRELL CSC has just returned to 
ND after two years of study at Yale. Dave is 
^ presently teaching an advanced course in the 
^ philosophy of science. TOM CAMPBELL and Mary Ann, 2309 Ridg^ray Rd., Wilmington 5, Del., report that they have four children, three girls and one boy. Tom travels a good deal for IBM and is 
_ still in the Marine Reserve; in fact it was a Marine summer camp stint that caused him to miss the Reunion. JERRY SIXON is practicing law in Chicago, is with Burton, Isaacs, Dixon & Wynne and is stiU single. FR. JOHN GRIFFIN has cele­brated his third year as a curate as St. Bernard's, 1529 Washington St., Newton, Mass. Boy, is he busy! As John puts it "I have been totally swallowed up by the great ecclesiastical machine and am wholly consumed, day and night, in the work of the ministry." The remainder of the letter would leave you exhausted. 
BRL\N P. JENNING added to the Poop Sheet also. Brian received a master's degree from NYU in industrial relations in 1961 \'ia the night school route. At present he's with tlie New York Telephone Co. in the traffic department. Brian and his wife Ann have, at last count, six children (three and three), the last two coming in one package. The Jennings make it home at 25 West Dr., Manhasset. 
N.Y. Capt. JOHN KEENAN USMC is still at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where he is Xfaiine security officer. It looks like another six months before he rejoins his patient wife Sally and their four girls. At "Gitmo" there are still some Cubans who com­mute to and from the "Free Territory of America." Their tales of Communist oppression and physical deprivations are almost unbelievable. John asks that we "please pray for the Cuban people." MARSHALL KINNEY is with Babcock & ^Vilcox his work center­ing around labor relations. The Kinncj-s have three children and live "somewhere" in Ohio. (Just couldn't make it out, Marshall.) 
Major THO-\L\S E. SCHWIETZ USAF is sta­tioned at Maxwell AFB, Ala. He and his wife Ethel have two boj-s and three girls. Tom is attending the Air Command Staff College as well as the George Washington U. branch. In 1962 Tom was selected as the outstanding young man of New Hampshire and nominated as one of the ten outstanding young men In the country by the national Jaycccs. PAUL VINCENT AMIDON was ordained to the holy priesthood on April 7, 1961, and he's now located at St. Ann's Monaster)*, 1239 St. Ann St., Scranton, Pa. The fellow who started the "G.P. Poop Sheet," TOM FIELD, received his law degree from Harvard in 1961 and is specializing in tax law as a trial attorney for the Dcpt. of Justice. Tom travels quite a bit and would love for any of his buddies to give him a call xvhcn in D.C. (1135 16th St. N.W., Washington, D.C) , office phone RE 7-8200, ext. 3600. 
We Went to the St. Louis Club's Christmas Dance at Trader Vic's and ran into BOB CHICKEY, who docs a mean watusi. We were uith Xfary Ann and JLM RICHESON '52, and it u-as really a nice affair. I must apologize to DICK CAW, 1420 Tliird Rd., Baltimore, Md., whose letter of a year ago got jammed in the back of a drawer. Dick \s'as reporting the birth of his son, Richard. He also wants to hear from CHARLIE ALLEN, DOUG JOHNSON, DON BEDEL, HERB H.\ILE, BILL BURKE and KERRY DALTON. Dick works for the Martin Marietta Corp., Nuclear Div., in Baltimore. 
It's a matter of great importance that I must now report: On March 15th in the Monsanto Nfen's League I bowled my first 600 scries, a beautiful 607. (Followed that with a 590 on March 22nd.) Any comments, bowlen? If I don't get some mail soon I may have to resort to telling you about my golf game, which has been improving ever since I smashed BOB WRIGHT at the Reunion last year. DON ZECH should be interested to know I got some new clubs. 
Has anyone seen or heard from JACK PITTAS or NED SEIM in the past year? Hope lo see all of you at the Reunion Party. If not then, please give me a call if you ever get into the St. Louis area. But above all, \mtc, write, ^mlc. 
From the Alumni Office: JOHNN'Y LATTNER was elected to the Helms Hall College Football Hall of Fame. Johnny's fifth child was bom in January*. Johnny b also teaching bometric exercises at the Chicago office of the Illinois attorney general, who ordered the exercises instead of coffee breaks. GENE HENRY, associate prof of electrical engi­neering at ND, was invited to address the Chicago chapter of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Group on Automatic Control in February. FRANK LILL completed his residency training in ophthalmology in July, 1964, and began practicing in Daytona Beach, Fla., in September, 1964. YATES HAFXER has been promoted to the rank of assistant prof of literature at Antioch College. He is currently working on his doctorate at Stanford. 
SERVICE NOTES 
CAPT. FR.\NK WISNESKI and >L\J. TO.M SCHWIETZ attended the 1965 Air Command and Staff College Class at Max^vell AFB, Ala. Tom 

SpoMiglit Alumnus 
REV. VINCENT J. GIESE '50 For Apostolic Itch, High Rdief Pattem 

Vincent Joseph Giese has found the ul­timate channel for his extraordinary talents and spiritual aspirations with his ordination to the priesthood, April 3, 1963, at Basilica 
S. Paolo, Roma, for the Archdiocese of Chicago. 
Bom of the late Joseph and Mary Giese, Fort Wayne, Ind., Oct. 19, 1923, Vince re­ceived his bachelor's degree from St. Jo­seph's College, Rensselaer, Ind., an MA in journalism at ^farquette, and a Master of Science degree in education at Notre Dame in 1930. 
While at Notre Dame, he worked at the Ave Maria Press and was one of the founders of Fides Publishers, started under the inspiration of Father Louis Putz CSC. 
Upon graduation from Notre Dame, he became editorial director of Fides until 1962, when he began studies for the priest­hood at the age of 38. He was sent to Rome to the Beda College for Late Vocations and has been studying theology at the Gre­gorian University. 
Father Giese authored four books as a 

layman on problems of Catholic .Action: 
Patterns for Teenagers, The Apostolic Itch, Training for Leadership and Resolution in the City. Besides he was active in Chicago and nationally in the Confraternity of Chris­tian Doctrine, the Young Christian Work­ers, and Young Christian Students move­ments and lectured widely on Catholic Action. 
Father Giese will celebrate his Solemn Mass of Thanksgiving on July 18 in Chi­cago at St. Francis de Paula Church. Father Putz of Notre Dame will preach at his Mass. 
received the US.\F Commendation Medal at Maxwell AFB for meritorious service as an aircraft com­mander at Pease AFB, N.H. 
CAPT. BOB LENAR took part in Polar Strike, a joint US-Canadtan air and ground forces maneuver in February in .Alaska. Bob is with the Tactical Air Command at Geoi^e AFB, Calif. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 61 
GRAD NEWS SAUL WISCHXITZER is using an electron micro­scope lo study ultrastnicturc of the egg in research at Veshi\-a U., where he is associate prof of biologj-. HANS DIETZ, associate prof of music history at tlie U. of Texas, gave an illustrated lecture on "Di-namics and Form in Eighteenth Century- In­strumental Music" at ND on April 23. 
Paul Fullmer -55 7344 N. Ridge Blvd. Chicago, HI. 
Here's the Golden Century Club (the first 100 to 
register for the Reunion!)—DICK ALFES, DICK 
BEEMAN, W. J. BIRMINGHAM, DICK BOLAXD. 
CARL BRATTON, JIM BROUGHTON, DON 
BUCCI, FRANK BURGE, DICK BURKE, JERRY 
BURNS, BOB CAFF.ARELLI, JIM CAHILL, TOM 
CAREY, GEORGE a^lHART, CAPT. R. C. 
CARLL, JIM CARROLL, GENE CARRIBINE, 
JOHN CASEY, PHIL CHINN, MAURY CIC­
CIARELLI, DICK COXDIT, TOM CONLON, 
DICK CONNELLY. 
DICK COOK, LEE CREAN, MIKE CULLINAN, 

MARTY CULHANE, FRANK CUN.M.NGHAM, 
ED D.-\RGIS, CHARLIE DEGER, TI.M DEVE­
REUX, CHUCK DOHERTY, DON.N DUFFY, 

OWEN DUGAN, JOHN DW'YER, HARRY ED­
ELSTEI.V, JACK EVR.-UID, JOHN FALLON, 

JACK FLYNN, SARS FORD, DICK GAUTHIER, 
MARTY GLEASON, JIM GRIFFIN, JOHN GRO­
GAN, JOE HAGGERTi'. 
BOB HAIDINGER, NE.-\L H.ALLORAN, TOM HAYES, JOHN HESTER, GERRY HILLSMAN. NORM HIPSKIND, JACK HOBLITZELL, RON HUBER, DICK HUGHES, JIM IRWIN, BUCKY JANSSEN, WALT KAVANAUGH, JOE KEARNEY. iHKE KELLY, J. T. KORTE, BOB KU.VZE, CHRIS LARSEN, JACK LEE, JOHN LOCHTE­FELD, FRANTt LOLLI, BOB McAULIFFE, R. 
J. McCARREN, BERNIE McCLOREY. BILL McLAIN, JOE MADIG.AN, JOHN MAN­DC, NEAL MASON, MICK MELVIN, JI.\t MONGELLO, MIKE MOYER, CHUCK MUCK­ENHIR.V, BOB MURPHY, AL N.ARDINE, ED PETRUSKA, RAY PIKROP, JERRY PRASSAS. STEVE REBORA, JOHN ROGERS, TIM RAU"H. PETE RnTEN , BILL REALE, GEORGE SHEL­TO.N, OWEN SODETZ, FRANK SCHILLO, JIM STEVENS, ART SULLIVAN, GEORGE SUNKEL. DICK SZY3lL\NSKI, JOHN TROGOLO, GEORGE VAN BESIEN, JOHN WEITHERS, MIKE WARD, WARRE.\ YOUNGSTRO.M, and LOU ZEFRAN. Ok, so that's only 99! I round out the group. Smart Guy. FR. JOE O'DONNELL, who could not adjust his cross-countty' mission sclicdule to make the Class Reunion, dropped in thb morning to chide mc about the time lag between neu'S happening and its publication in the ALUMNUS. Well, you can't win them all. Fatlier Joe was down at tiic Fauma retreat house when Sandra and I made a recent couples retreat at Notre Dame. They have a fin; setup there and I would urge all of you who can to make one of the retreats. Just drop Father Joe a line for the schedule. He added tliat after 14 years he finally has his commision in the Na\y Resen-e. These ch.iplains think of all the angles. Now he can get in on tliosc summer cruises too! He is a lieutenant, for those of you who are rank-conscious. The whole point of this paragraph, I guess, is that I printed an item saving H.\L WILLENBORG was in Newport News. Since Father Joe was going there for a mission, he WTOtc ahead to Hal. "The reply came from San Diego! Hal now (or at least at this writing in April) is stationed at 
the Na\-al Supply Center, 937 N. Harbor Drive, San Diego. 
Inddcntly, I'll try to give as complete a rttndotvn as possible on the Reunion in the ne-xt issue. We work so far ahead tliat I'm still trying to work in my Christmas carxis! 
You think I'm kidding? Well, I'm not! Here are several tliat came in too late to be included in the bst column. JOE CON'NOLLY (I65I0 Sedalia Ave., Cleveland) reports in with two children. Our jour­nalism classmate, DICK CONNELLY, now a Wcsl­inghouse radio official, recently moved to 13 Gold St. (matches his bankroll). Green Brook, N.J. TOM IGLESKI has one young son, Mark, to keep in line. FRANK BURKE is perhaps the most faidiful Christmas card writer in the class. Frank and Ann now live at 546 Latirel Rd., Ridgcwood N.J. »L\RTY CULHA-NE and hb busy wife, Mary Pat, designed a card showing tlicir family of seven boj-s— two sets of twins! JOHN O'MEARA reported in from Detroit (1350 Joliet). 
JERRY HUGHES checked in from the Stales Uiis 
Spotlight Alumnus... 
ROBERT C. BUTLER '52 GT&E International Planning Chief 
.'\ppointed director of planning of General Telephone & Electronics International Inc., Robert Butler will be responsible for a re­cently organized corporate planning office which- has been established to provide for the planned future expansion of GT&E In­ternational on a coordinated world-wide basis. GT&E International is a subsidiary-of General Telephone & Electronics Cor­poration. 
GT&E International, which operates some 20 manufacturing facilities in Can­ada, Europe, and Latin .America, is re­sponsible for all General System manufac­turing and marketing activities outside the United States. This includes the marketing abroad of products made by GT&E domes­tic manufacturing subsidiaries — Sylvania Electric Products, Inc., Automatic Electric Co. and Lenkurt Electric Co. Inc. 
In his new capacity. Bob Butler will be responsible for the direction and coordina­tion of fonvard planning programs, cover­ing all GT&E International operations. 
Previously Bob was manager of cost and financial analysis for GT&E International. He joined Sylvania in 1956 as an internal auditor. In 1959 he was named assistant to the director of purchases for Sylvania, and the following year he ^vas appointed division purchasing agent for the Syh-ania International Division. 
A native of Glen Ridge, N.J., Bob grad­uated in 1952 from the University of Notre Dame and received a master's degree in finance from the Wharton School of Busi­ness of the University of Pennsylvania in 1956. 
Bob is married and the Butlers reside at 30 The Fairway, Cedar Grove, N.J., with their three sons. 

year. The Air Force captain is at 71 Monterey Dr., Daly City (not named after Joe), Calif. Jerry and Joan had a boy, Patrick Jerome, just before Christmas. Incidentally, JOE DALEY also came through with a card. He has this cbssy address— 28 Idlewild Lane, Matawan, N.J. DON HANISCH wTts smart. He got his wife, Cathleen, to write a note on their caid. Don lias been a stock broker in 
Tulsa for a year. They live at 5765 E. 30th St., 
Tulsa. TOM O'BROCHTA sent his card from 1702 
N. 22nd Ave.. Melrose Park, III. JOE MADIGAN, who has been promoting Cleve-­land Brown basketball (!) team during the off season, took time to send out Christmas cards. Joe, Marilyn, and the two boj-s recently moved to 2347 Loyokt Rd., University Heights, Ohio. AMEEL RASHID, the smiling doctor, is taking temperatures ­in Peoria, 111. Ameel, Joyce, and son Greg can be found at 1102 Stratford Dr. TOM O'MALLEY, the ^ former Cbss correspondent, now has to keep an eye j on two young ones at 6213 E. 109th St., Kansas City, Mo. DICK MANNION, the confirmed bachelor, finally saw the light. He and Carol live at 7 Stuyvesant Oval, New York. ROLLIE HART, a ­resident adjuster with Travelers Insurance, now has 
two boj^, Walter and Bert. Uncle Sam delivers his mail at Rt. 4, Box 125-A, Princeton, W.Va. 
JOHN WEITHERS and JERRY PRASSAS lived it up on a winter skiing expedition in Europe. I use — the word "expedition" advisably because I under­stand that the girls outntimbercd the fellows on thb trip about 3-1. Anotlier bachelor skiier, BILL McLAIN, the smiling DA from Warren, O. captured ^ the slalom and grand slalom races at Aspen shordy after the first of the year. He really was flying high on hb trip home w*hen he called from the train station, but I think "Aspen Annie" has him under control. Another guy who has spent much time at Aspen, my old roomie, TOM "HU.MPHREY" x^ DORWIN, called up when in town for the boat show. He b the Te-Xas representative for Evinrude Motors and lives at 3819 Jefferson, Austin. Tom and Carol have a bouncing baby boy, Patrick. -^ 
Condolences to PHIL SHERIDAN, whose father 

died in March. He w^is a long-time Chicago alder­
man. Phil now b an assbtant corporation counsel for 
the City of Chicago. 
In order that you can update your records. I'll pass along some new addresses: JIM CUNNING-| HAM, 775 Hawthorne Ave, Bound Brook, N.J.; ED LIEVENS, 36 Maple St., Needham, Mass.; TOM O'CONNOR, 186 Woodbridge Ave., Buffalo, J -N.Y.; DAVE NOLAN, 5 N. 18tli St., Allen­town, Pa.; JOHN McVEY, 180 Grecnbriar, Chagrin Falb, O.; FRANK MARTEL, 214 Gordon Ave., SyTacusc, N.Y.; JERRY FROEHLICH, 109 Baj-airl, Ave., North Haven, Conn.; FRED GALIONE, 4423 N. 17th St., Arlington, Va. 
The moving companies have been doing well in { Indiana. BILL CHUSTAK moved from Gar>- to Route 4, Box 343, Valparaiso, M/\CK STEWART left Texas for Evansvillc (8006 Larch Lane). P.\T t McGAHAN moved from Columbus to 7346 Dun-_' Courtney Dr., N.E., Atlanta, Ga. Two classmates have moved to PennsyK-ania. JOE FONTANA can be reached at 34 Viaduct Lane, Lcvitlown; DICK SCHERPEREEL now b teaching art at Blooms-burg (Pa.) State College. 
Here are a couple of notes on the medical scene. . DR. BOB KLOECKER b in St. Loub (828 McKnigt Rd.) and DR. DON GALLAGHER b in Granville, 
111. (Box 538). \ 
San Diego figured in a couple of changes. GENE LUND moved from L. A. to 6873 Florey St., San Diego. SAM SCHARBER headed west from Ten-^ nessee and landed at 8912 Gowdy Ave. in San Diego. ^ 
People keep moving in and out of our Windy City, of course. First, the "checkouts." BRUNO SAVICZ headed for the sun country (8343 E. Pinchot Ave., J Scottsdale, Ariz.). TOM GALLIGAN now b located a at 2536 Shady Oak Dr., Ft. WajTie. FRED A KRACKLAUER, the fonner Mundelein squire, has ^ staked out at 410 Sixth St., Marietta, O. RON SERSEN now lives at 62 Susquehanna, Cooperstown, , 
N.Y. ~ On the "check-in" side, DON LUECKE left the tennb courts of Forest Hilb for 1337 W. Fargo .\ve. here in Chicago. DICK SCHEIBELHUT moved from equally nice country (Denver) to 5669 N. Las Casas, Chicago. BILL CLEMENTS made tlie "" move from Dayton to 338 Dogwood Rd., Park Forest, III. JERRY GROARK b now a neighbor J at 4341 Bobolink Terrace, Skokie. Milwaukee's fanciest suburb, Wauwatosa, abo ~ figures prominently in the news. I almost forgot JOHN "CURLY" BENDEL's Christmas card. He and Eileen live at 8129 W. Richmond Ct. BOB ZALE and ED CZUPPA are fellow voters. Bob b ~ at 6330 W. Clarke St. and Ed at 1441 N. C6th St., both in Wauwatosa. On the other hand, CHARLIE N j O'BRIEN lias moved from Wauwatosa to Baraboo, . j Wbc (1201 Tuttle). * | MIKE KELLY and DICK COOK continue to run ' a very lively class dinner ("Oiganization '55") every other month at Lattncr's Steak House down­
town. Mike got the lazzberrics hst time when he ordered orange sherbet to top off hb com beef and 
62 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
cabbage dinner the night before St. Patriclc*s Day! Dick recently %\'as promoted to administrative man­ager, design, advertising and public relations, for Container Corp. of America. I bet even "Cookie" doesn't know what that title means! LOU "DIGGER O'DELL" ZEFRAN was on hand hand­ing out leaflets supporting a new firearms bill. Lou is an avid hunter. He also believes that his in­dustr>' should become more promotional minded. (The rumor has it that he recently offered a special —30% oir for walk-ins!) NEAL HALLORAN, who just bought a new home, brings blank Allstate policies to every meeting just in case. That mortgage wU be paid off in record time. GEORGE SHEL­TOX. \vho did yeoman service on the Reunion arrangements, just bought a house at 1109 Forest Ave., Wilmette. He is treasurer of A. L. Jackson, one of the country's big construction outfits. JIM CAHILL, Shelton's long-time crony, is controller of White Advertbing Co. in Shelby, Ind. BOB C,-\FFARELLI, the former prosecutor, now b in pri\-ate practice. He lives in Flossinoor. JOE KE.-\RNEY is the key man (according to me) at Northwestern Heating. GERRY HILLS^LVN vowed tliat he would give his thinning locks a close cut for the reunion. 

CHRIS LARSEN was the "special guest." In from Plainficid (N.J.) for some briefing by Inter­national Har\'cster, Chris renewed many old friend­ships. He immediately signed up officially for the Reunion. He is in the company's construction equipment divbion. MIKE WARD did a good job as publicity chairman for the Chicago Club's Com­munion Breakfast, which featured a B>'zantine Rite Mass in English! I iinbhed my term as president 
- of the Chicago Club on UND Night, and now I can sit back and second guess as a member of the Past Presidents Club. I ahra^-s did want to retire at 30! I would like to thank all the guj-s from '55 who helped make the year a success, especially STEVE REBORA, who did the artwork for a new-dub brochure. Thanks, Gang! 
During a fast California swing I managed to sec NED RYAN, who finbhcd up his law work out west. Ned, one of the most popular Chicago comnicrccmcn during his da>-s at ND, is a Holly­wood (6363 Sunset Blvd.} legal eagle now. Ned and Ellen have tut> little girls. I'm sorry that I didn't have time to look up ED FOX or BOB GERVAIS. Ned told me that DON PETERS will soon pick up his law degree in L.A. after the evening school bit. 
Here arc a iew news notes from the AB crew. TOM 0'H.^RA b stationed at Tyndall Air Force Base in Florida. "Old" PAT WAGNER b en­joying the sun at Port Hucnemc, Calif. (Box 311). JOH.V McCULLOUGH, who often b heard on na­tional radio pickup through WNDU, resides at 1803 Rocknc Dr. in South Bend. 
JOHN CONNAUGHTON figures in here some­place—Connaughton, Weger & Connaughton, Wapak­oneta, Ohio. HUGH BOYLE took hb new bride northeast to Dorchester, Mass. (6 Wilbur St.). CHUCK COLLINS, who left these parts for the East, recently moved into a new apartment at 230 Mt. Vernon PI., Newark, N.J. He b an attor­ney. ROY BELKNAP, the fonncr commerce senator who since has cornered the stock market, receives hb dividends at 967 Bloomfield Hilb, Mich. 
SARS FORD has moved to 361 French St., Bridgeport, Conn. DON SILEO, a real New Yorker, b at 10390 Main St., Clarence, N.Y. JERRY BRANSFIELD, a new home owner at 1018 N. Kenilworth, Oak Park, threw a real housc\rarming party. TOM HAYES left just in time to get hb wife to the hospital so that she could deliver a beautiful baby girl. TIM DEV­EREUX welcomed another boy, Peter, to the family. FRANK CLELAND left Chicago's soutli side for the west side (7511 W. Roosevelt, Forest Park). DON a-\VETT, the salty Ne\^ Englander, transferred hb books from Marblehead (Mass.) to 17 Mortimer Dr., Old Greenwich, Conn. 
^VALT a\BRAL, a captain in the Army ROTC unit at Tulane, lives at 745 Wiegant Dr., Nor­mandy Park, Westwcgo, La. His teammate, LEO C.-\LLAGHAN, recently moved from Michigan to 1811 Spencer, New Bern, N.C. 
Remember, a complete reunion report in the next issue. If you weren't able to make it, send me all the details on your lives and loves. 
From the Alumni Office: Our apologies to JAMES ^L BIGELOW, AB, 1822 147th Place S.E., BcIIcxTie, Wash., for acci­dently leaving name and address off the 1955 roster. DICK COOK has been appointed adminbtrattve manager of the dept. of design, advertbing and public relations of Container Corp. of America. 
Spotlight Alumnus.. 
MICHAEL E. LONG '54 For Diocesan Vet, "Sign" of Recognition 
Rev. Ralph Gorman^ editor of The Sign, 
national Catholic magazine published in 
Union City, N.J., announced this spring 
the appointment of Michael Edward Long 
as associate editor. 
An award-winning background in di­
ocesan journalism would seem to have des­
tined Mike for the staff of The Sign, pub­
lished by the Passionist Fathers with a paid 
circulation of over 320,000, it is one of 
the leading general family interest Catholic 
periodicals and has won 28 awards in Cath­
olic Press Association competitions. 
Mike has been assistant managing editor of the Baltimore Catholic Review, a weekly diocesan newspaper. During the past five years he has won five first-place awards in the Maryland-Delaware Press Association's annual competition. 
A magna cum laude graduate in com­munication arts, Mike took graduate study from 1959 to 1961 at Marquette University School of Journalism. Previously he had served as a captain in the Marine Corps from 1954 to 1959 as a jet pilot and flight instructor. 

Dick, Maureen, and their four children are living in Glen^aew, III. 
FRANK BURGE, a product line mgr. for Beck-man Instruments, Berkeley Div., H^IS co-chairman of the Western Electronic Manufacturers* Assn. Management Workshop on "Marketing—Getting into Commercial Markets** held in January at Palo Alto, Calif. 
ELLIS JOSEPH, assoc. prof of education at the 

U. of Dayton, u'as named winner of the $500 U. of Dayton Alumni-Faculty award given to the faculty member who contributes most to the aca­demic life and prestige of the University. 
JOE CROWLEY received his PhD of philosophy from Ohio State U. on December 18. 
JIM HESBURGH has been appointed v-p of international operations for the Wheelabrator Corp. of Mbhawaka, Ind. Jim, Mary and their three children, Mary, Ann and ^fauree^, are living in South Bend. 
TOM O'MALLEY has been appointed a senior brokerage coiuultant at the Kansas City Mo., brokerage ofEce of Conn. General Life Ins. Co. 
Congratulation to Mr. and Mrs. DAN SHANNON on the birth of their slxtli child, Nancy. BEN REIDER was promoted to second v-p in 
the banking dept. of The Northern Trust Co. m 
Chicago. Ben, his wife and three children are 
living in Hinsdale, III. 
State Department Junior Foreign Officer WALT 

KEARNS was assigned to a Senator's office for a 
two-week orientation period to become better ac­
quainted with the function of Congress before 
departing for an assignment in Thailand. 
Capt. JERRY HUGHES has entered the USAF 

pilot instructor course at Connally AFB, Tex. 
GRAD NEWS 
PETE GRANT)E, asst. prof, of education at ND, 

lias been a%%'ardcd a grant to participate in a 
research conference on "Learning and the Educa­
tional Process" at Stanford U., June 21 through 
July 30. 
PHIL GLEASON, asst. prof of history at ND. 

delivered two lectures at the U. of Minnesota in 
May on "Immigration in American Catholic 
Histor>'." 
Alvin D. Vitt 
'56 
4 Wind Rush Greek W. St. Louis, Mo. 
The printer's deadline for the previous issue of 

the ALUSINUS was December 15, but probably be­
cause of the Christmas mail rush and a delay 
en route, the column did not appear. Thus the 
error was compounded only into no news then and 
vcr>* sparse correspondence to relay now. 
JOHN CYWINSKI, a Navy lieutenant, is a staff 

pediatrician at the US Naval Hospital in St. 
Albans, N.Y- At the ND-Navy game in Philadel­
phia, John and Sue saw the DR. DICK LEWISES 
and, in the distance, JOHN AD.AMS. Other physi­
cians, DICK HENDRICKS, in the Air Force in 
California, JOE DI LALLO in Short Hills, N.J., and 
;VNGELO CAPOZZI in Madison, Wis. 
Ulster County, N.Y., has appointed JAilES 

FISHER, 270 Fair St., Kingston, N.Y., assistant 
district attorney. After graduating in 1956, Jim 
received his law degree from Fordham University 
in 1962. 
Every few months lately I have had an opportunity 

to see or at least talk to FR. TOM CH.AifBERS 
CSC during his frequent trips to St. Louis. As 
you would imagine, Tom is doing a splendid job 
for the Holy Cross Order in vocational guidance. 
After St. Louis he hoped to sec GARY COOPER 
in Los Angeles. At the Iowa game this fall, Tom 
saw GORDON DIRENZO, professor of sociology 
at Fairfield U., and POGO REILLY, who is work­
ing on a Ph.D. in Law. 
From the Alumni Office: 
GERRY MASSEY, asst. prof of philosophy at 

Michigan State U., conducted a seminar at ND 
in May on the '*New Foundation for Model Logic*' 
under the sponsonhip of the ND electrical engi­
neering dept. 
We received a letter from PAT MOONEY re­

questing that he be put on the mailing list of the 
Class of *56. Rit will be ordained next January and 
his address is Fr. Patrick Mooney OFM, St. Joseph 
Seminary, Teutopolb, III. 
The following is from JUAN RAFAEL PACHECO JR.: "Just to let my classmates know of my where­abouts, this is to inform that on this same date (April 21) I had the great pleasure of rettu-ning to Notre Dame for a very brief virit after nine years of absence. I u-as accompanied by my brother Angel Enrique Richeco, who will be a freshman next September at the University. 
"Many familiar faces were present, particularly those of Fathers John Walsh and Charles Carey, as well as Professors LeClair Eells and Raymond Kent of the College of Commerce. .And why not mention too the good Brothers of the Book Store, and Jenny, one of the most friendly clerks at the Book Store! Yes, many old faces were still there, but others weren*t, some gone forever, like our beloved Father William F. Cunningham, and others absent temporarily, like Fathers Bob Lochner and Robert Pclton. It was quite a sentimental journey! 
"Prior to my vbit to Notre Dame, I visited Panama, where I was royally feted by CARLOS CHAMBONNET and EDUARDO DOMINGUEZ. Carlos is a highly successful junior executive with Conoco, and Eduardo has been practicing bw for some time now. I was also planning to visit Guate­mala and Nicaragua, but the Pan American Airways strike prevented me from doing so; therefore, I had to fly from Panama direcUy to Mexico, where FEDERICO TERAN and NL\NUEL VILLAZON tnade me feel right at home. Fcderico has been with Ford International ever since graduation, and Manuel is a very successful architect in Mexico City, abo teaching at the Univcrsidad Ibero-Americana. . . . P.S. From here I'll be flying to 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July^August, 1965 63 
New York City next Sunday, April 25, and ilicn 
on to my hometown, Santo Domtngo, Dominican 
Republic, on Sunday, May 2." Juan's address is 
Arzobispo Merino 51. May peace be restored to his 
embattled land. 
JOE MARTEtLARO, asst. prof of economics at 
the South Bend-Mishavvaka Campus of Indiana U., 
has received a Fulbright giant to lecture at the 
U. of ConJoba in Argentina tliis summer. He will lecture on the economic needs of underdeveloped countries. His wife and three sons will accom­pany him to .Argentina. 
DICK. RECKER has been naimcd field supervisor 
of casualt^'-fire lines in The Travelers Insurance Co. 
Ranhurst Agency office. 
JIM MASSEV, assoc. prof of electrical engineer­
ing at ND, was selected by the Institute of Elec­
trical and Electronics Engineers to receive a $100 
"best paper award" in the field of Information tlieory. 
RON BYTNER has been named assoc. editor of 
Vend magazine, a business publication in the vend­
ing and food service industr>'. He joined the Vend 
editorial staff in 1958, working first in llie pub­
lication's Chicago headquarters and later transferring 
to the magazine's New York City office. He will 
continue to be based in New York. Ron, his wife 
and daughter are living in Elmhurst, N.Y. 
ED COSGROVE was campaign manager last fall 
for his uncle, who won a Supreme Court judgeship. 
DEAN DAVIS has been named branch manager 
of Associates Discount Corp., a subsidiar>- of Asso­
ciates Investment Co., in Kalamazoo, Mich. 
JOE FLORES received Ins JD from Ohio Nonli­
em U. College of Law in May, 1954, and was ad­
mitted to the Ohio Bar in October. He is engaged 
in the private practice of bw in Findlay, Ohio. 
He was married on Nov. 28 to Mary Jane Poirer 
of Waltham, Mass. 
JOHN MASSMAN of Massman Construction Co., 
Kansas Cit>-, Mo., was re-elected president of the 
Kansas-Missouri council of the Mississippi Valley 
Assn. 
JOE WEIBEL has joined the Fortune advertising 
sales staff in Cleveland and lives in Bath, O., with 
his wife and two small sons, 
BOB FISHER has started work as a field sales 
rep. for graphic arts, professional, and industrial 
photographic products in the Baltimore-Washington 
area for Du Font's photo products dept. Bob, his 
wife and two sons are living in Bowie, Md. 
Capt. RALPH FICKLING has graduated from the USAF pilot instructor coiusc at Randolph AFB, Tex., and is trained to teach. student pilots to fly jets at Mather AFB, CaliL 
ARON KUPPERiLANN, prof of chemical ph>-sics at the California Instimtc of Technology', lias been appointed to the editorial advisorj- board of The 
Journal of Physical Chemistry, a monthly publica­tion of the American Chemical Society. 
 P. McMeel 
•57 
John 
30 E. 42nd St New York, N.Y. 
ATTENTIO.V CL.^S OF '57 
FOOTBALL REUNION SOUTHERN CAL CAME WEEKEND 
OCTOBER 22-23 
Our congratulauons to KEN WOODWARD who has been appointed religion etlitor of Newsweek magazine. Had dinner with Ken a short while back and can assure his many friends that Ken hasn*t changed one iota. In other words, you needn*c address him as Mr. Woodward. He and his lovely wife Betty arc presently searching for a home nearer Manhattan. Ken and Betty had been making their home in Omaha where he was cm* ployed by the Sun Newspaper group. Our best wishes for continued success. . . . Out Coloiado Springs way JOE REICH informs us tliat he re­cently heard from LARRY COOKE. Larry is out of the scrxicc and will do residency in Dallas. Joe abo had the good fortune to sec SKIP JOHNSON in Ev-anston, HI. It seems that Skip is also in residency. It is newsworthy to note that the Reichcr ran into Skip while putsuing a lovely young lass named Jane Cassidy. By tlie time this is published we possibly could have a serious situation on our hands. Colorado Springs is quite a long way from Chicago. Oh well, let us have faith. . . . Spent a great evening in New York recently with MOORE McDONOUGH. Moore b the father of nvo—a boy and a girl. By his own description he is a Thief, Peddler, Salesman, Stockbroker for the 
64 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 
Spotlight Alumnd .. . 
SR. JACQUELINE GRENNAN SL, MA '57 From Loretto, Ecumenism and the Great Society 
Sister Francetta Barberis SL, MA '41, has been widely pictured in the press re­cently, particularly in her "civ\ies." The 65-year-old president emeritus of Webster College, Webster Groves, Mo., has under­taken a new career as of June 1 as a coun­selor for President Johnson's Job Corps, working out of the Office of Economic Opportimity in Washington. AVhile on the job she wears secular street dress for the first time in 47 years, having received per­mission from Sr. Mary Luke Tobin MA '42, 
LL.D. '65, superior general of the Sisters of Loretto. Continuing as an advisor to the college, Sr. Francetta also amazes with her frequent appearances at bond dinners for Israel, in which she has invested ecumen­ically for Webster, gaining a reputation in the Jcmsh community' as a kind of cler­ical "Georgine Jessel." 
Less publicized were the activities of Sr. Francetta's successor in the Webster presi­dency. Sister Jacqueline Grennan, an out­spoken educational critic and the only wom­an member of the President's -Advisory Panel on Research and Development in Education. 
Sister Jacqueline, executive vice-president of the college near St. Louis, Mo., and also a member of the Sisters of Loretto, was named to a 14-member steering committee for Proj'cct Head-Start, the pre-school program of the War on Poverty aimed at 
securities firm of Rotan, Mosle & Co. in Houston. Let me also add that before the big merger Moore took a three-month leave of absence for a trip around Europe. Quite a guy! Moore reports that the STRAKER is expecting another addition to the family. Such a busy man. McDon­ough also had the good fortune to see CHAS. STEVENSON, KING COAL and LARRY BEDFORD when the three recendy appeared on the Houston scene. TOM FIUMARA >vritcs to tell us that he is presently working for the New York State Division of Employment as an unemployment insurance tax auditor (an>'way, it sounds impres­sive!) out of their Utica, N.Y., ofSce. On May 15 Tom was married to Miss Jo Anne Fratello. They will make tlieir home in Fulton, N.Y. Sorry, 

1965 
helping children from needy families to 
compete successfully with their more for­
tunate classmates in kindergarten and first 
grade. 
Sister Jacqueline's appointment was an­
noimced in VVashington by Sargent Shriver, 
director of the Office of Economic Opportu­
nity, which conducts and coordinates the 
nation's anti-poverty program. Dr. Julius 
B. Richmond, dean of the medical faculty at the State University Upstate Medical Center at Syracuse, N.Y., is director of the project. Dr. Robert E. Cooke, chief pedi­atrician of the Johns Hopkins University Hospital, Baltimore, is chairman of the ad­visory committee of prominent pediatricians, educators, psychiatrists and psychologists. 
Sister Jacqueline, 39, with a master's in 
English from ND, is a cum laude graduate 
of Webster. She taught English and mathe­
matics, was assistant to the president, and 
a vice-president for development at the col­
lege. In 1963 she was named one of six 
outstanding women in the St. Louis area 
by the St. Louis chapter of Theta Sigma 
Phi, national honorary fraternity for women 
in journalism, for her "significant and far­

sighted contribution to education." In 1964 
she was cited as a "Woman of -Achievement" 
in the field of education by the St. Louis 
Globe Democrat. 

In a speech at the White House before 250 prominent women leaders from all over -America, she explained the aims of Project Head-Start: "We're trying to create a rich environment in what we will probably call 'child development centers'—not to take the responsibility away from families, but to help families re-integrate responsibility into themselves; perhaps to help families re­integrate themselves by this kind of inter­est." More than 100,000 children from 300 communities across the nation will be en­rolled in the two-month program this sum­mer. The Opportunity Office, through its Community Action Program, will pay 90 percent of the cost in local communities which can organize and operate the project and furnish the remainder in either cash or kind. The estimated average cost per child will be $85 per month. About §17 million has been set aside for this summer's program and $150 million has been budget­ed for fiscal 1966. 
A native of Sterling, 111., Sister Jacqueline has also taught English and math at Loretto Academy, El Paso, Tex., and Nerinx Hall, St. Louis. She has been a consultant to the Science Curriculum Improvement Study at the University of California and a mem­ber of the committee set up by the Rocke­feller brothers fund for the study of wom­en's colleges. 
I can't help you now, Tom, it's just too kite. . . . Tom reports that KEN TULLOCH is married and living in Malone, N.Y. He is in the investment business. MARTY ANGELINO has also allowed hiimelf to be snagged and is living in Chittcnnango, N.Y., and teaclung school. . . . TOM GUILFOILE came through in fine style with his report about such classmates as FR. RAY LESCHER being an assistant at St. Rose of Lima parish in Kankakee, lU. . . . CHARLIE WITTENBERG is the branch manager for an insurance company in St. Louis and was honored with the CPCU desigttation in the past year (comparable to CPA for accountants). FR. CHRISTIAN O'BRIEN (Tom O'Brien) U a Notbertine priest, teaching at a high school in Green Bay, Wis. JIM IRVING expects to receive 
his doctorate in chemical engineering from Yale in June. He and his wife Toni have a son, Mark. • . . Heading the Calumet Bookkeeping Service in HUbert, Wis., is JOHN SUTTNER. He and his Av-ifc Carol have four children. MIKE AHERN is associated with John F. Ahem Plumbing Co. in Fond du Lac. HARRY SMITH is with Ortho Products living in a Chicago suburb. DON Mc-CRORY and wife Pat welcomed another boy to the family this year which makes number five (3 girls, 2 bo>-s). They arc living in Houston. -. , MIKE McINTIRE is practicing law in San Luis, Calif., *vhcrc he is HWng with wife Miriam and four sons. AL LUM is basking in Honolulu %vhile teaching. GREG HUSSEY and Joan are living in Baton Rouge, La., and were expecting No. 3 in Feb. Greg is in ilic teaching profession. ED KWITEK and family have moved to California, where Ed has enrolled in a theology program for lay people at the U. of San Francisco. Upon completion of schooling they will do hy apostolatc work, probably in the Far West states. DICK EGAN is with an accounting firm in Chicago and living in North-brook, HI. JOHN BEGGAN is witli the govern­ment ta.x division and working out of Washington, 
D.C.
 NEIL (sob!) WALLACE ended his bachelor daj-s last fall. They arc living in Afilton, Mass., where Neil is employed by an investment firm. . . . MIKE GESHWIN has a managerial job with Krcsgc Co. in Superior, Wis. JOHN GLENSKI and family arc living in Kansas City, Mo. . . . And as for the star of our program, TOM GUIL­FOILE, he lias been quite busj- with the Guilfoile Insurance Agency in Fond du Lac and taming three sons. Thanks for all the news, Tom. I only wish some of your classmates would take more of an interest in their class and participate in the same u-ay. PAUL SCHIERL is working for a paper company in Green Bay. The last heard about AL KRYGER \\"as that he was leaving for Europe for graduate studies tn chemistry. . . . JACK itAHER (t>vt> years ago) was working for Conti­nental Insurance Co. in New York. All of this also comes to us from the trusty hand of Tom Guilfoile. . . . Sue Brown Bapst reports that her husband and our fine classmate, BILL BAPST, is employed with Hankins Container Corp. in Marion, Ind. They have been living in ifarion for two years. The Bapsts now consist of three girls and two boys. Thanks, Sue, for the information. . . . Still retain wonderful memories of you on the stage. . . . The wives arc coming through, for Marilyn Rcinhold reports that she and JOHN REINHOLD arc living in Cincinnati and that John is becoming one of the great land barons of our time. Outside of his realty office in Cincy he also has opened up in Dayton with a Columbus outlet in the works. John, could I borrow a thousand? . -. One close to my heart, LEN DIGIACOMO, is still courageously and unselfishly wearing the single mantle, only because he wishes to share himself u*ith many. He is living in Salt Lake City and, believe me, making the town a better place to live. He is an officer in the Public Relations Dcpt. (wow, that fox) for Continental Bank & Trust Co. He was also elected to the presidency of the Salt Lake City Junior Chamber of Commerce. In addi­tion to this, he holds the secretary-treasurer Job of the Utah Alumni Club of ND. .. . A personal invitation to any classmate going via Salt Lake, he sure and look up Lcn. . . . J.\CK KENT was married last summer to Ann Vetrs of South Bend. Jack is presently employed as assistant to the president of Barry College in Miami. REG BAIN, Jack's best man, is married and li%'ing in Klinne­apolis, where he wilt work on his doctorate at the 

U.
 of Minnesota. DR. JOSEPH McM.\HON is li\ing in New York City where he is a Surgical Resident at Bcllevue-Comell Division. The Mc­.Mahons have one fullback. ORLANDO MAIONE is still baching it in Palo Alto, Calif. He is a junior architect & general manager of John A. Huberty Inc. in Menio Park. BILL JACQUE­MAIN is a sales rep for Ledcrle Laboratories (same outfit as EARL HOGAN) in the Rocky Mountain Region. Bill has fallen and they are living in Albuquerque, N.M. TOM AL\RIANI is an aerospace engineer for the National Aeronautics & Space Administration in Cleveland, Ohio. Tom staj-s on the ground long enough, though, to be the father of two. . . . Barbara Trafficanda must be a terrific gal for she forwarded on a ver>­enlightening report concerning the activities of her husband GERRY TRAFFICANDA and many other of the classmates. Cannot improve on this so here it goes. . . . The Trafficandas are living in Tar­zana, Calif. Gerry has a photography studio in nearby Hollywood. He is also free-lancing and is an advertising photographer as well as branching out into TV commercials. The Trafficandas aic the parents of four—three girls and one lad. Gerry 


WALTER J. KEARNS '55, junior foreign officer with the State Department, has a talk with Sen. Lee Metcalf during his work in the senator^s office recently. Kcams will soon depart for a State Department assignment in Thailand. 
was also recently elected to the board of the Sodety of Art Center Alumni, of which he was a 1960 graduate. DON RENIER b the father of three and with Continental Casualty in L.A. PAT LOGAN is interning at UCLA Medical Cen­ter. . . . VINCE DOOLEY is the father of four and living in Rocky River, O. . . . PHIL DONA­HUE is keeping up with Vlncc and is a new reporter for WHIO-TV in Dayton, O. . . . TOM BERG also has four (what the hell is going on here?) and is working for Aerospace Corp. in San Bernardino. GEORGE O'DONNELL is the father of three in Qcveland. . . . BERNIE LYONS and family are in Japan, where Bemie is a jet flyer- He abo came down to earth and has fathered three. . . . HERBIE O'MEARA is prac­ticing law in L.A. and lives with his family in the San Fernando Valley. . . . JOHN McDER-MOTT is teaching in Spokane and from all reports —you guessed it—father of four! JOHN GUINN is teaching music and directs a church choir in Centerlinc, Mich. . . . BOB SALVINO is father of two and is a family insurance agent for State Farm in Chicago, Thanks a million, Barbara, and please relay my best to Connie. Gads, I am ex­hausted with the productivity of our classmates— henceforth I return to my shell. . . . 

Please remember in your prayers the soul of our cbssmate, FRED CORKILL, who died December 8. Our sympathies to his family. .. . 
Gads, my apologies and the following correcdons in the names of esteemed classmates JIM (not JOE) FINNEGAN and GUS SCIAOQUA (not SCHOCKWA) that appeared in the December ALUUNUS. Blame it on that rotten "twist" in the fifth martini. . . . 
The big date is the weekend of October 22 when us e meets the Irish in South Bend. Bigger yet axe the plans for our meeting of the Class of '57. By this time you should have your reservations mode. Since there are only 48 rooms in the City Motel, which has been blocked for our Class, it will be on a first-come-first-ser\'ed basis. Of coune, a pro­portion will have 'to be allocated to every section of the country thus making a fair distribution for those interested. Act now; if City Motel is filled, make reservation elsewhere immediately, but just be there, for it will be a weekend you will not soon forget. 
From the .Miunni Ofiice: Bill Gleason devoted a whole column in the Cfttcago Ameneait in March to "Village Smith of Old ND—Bigger Than Ever at Mary^ille," FR. JOHN SMYTH. Fr. John is one of four priests at Mar^-ville Academy in Des Plaines, 111. HANK WURZER, retail marketing manager of The Chicago Tnfeunr, discussed merchandise distri­bution at a recent seminar for Chicago high school students. JIM FREES has been promoted to Class 5 in the Foreign Ser\-ice of the US. Jim is serving as second secretary and consular oEEcer at our Embassy in the Yemen Arab Republic and speaks Arabic He was stationed in Khartoum, Sudan, from 19G0 to 1962. TOM SHEHAN has been appointed senior bro­kerage consultant at the Kansas City, ^fo., brokerage office of Connecticut General Life Ins. Co. PAUL HORNUNG was the featured speaker at the annual banquet honoring the 1964-65 ND Irish basketball squad. 
Your Class Secretary JOHN McMEEL has been appointed assistant sales director for the Hall Syn­dicate. In the next several Kars he will travel in all sections of the country widening his ac­quaintance with editors and learning their needs. 
Fr. H.-\NS RULKE CSC has been named assistant to the pastor of Little Flower I^iiish in South Bend. 
GRAD NEWS SR. M. JACQUELINE GRENN.AN MA is no longer executive vice-president of Webster College in suburban St. Louis. (See "Spotfight" opposite.) GENE ASHBY PhD, assistant prof of chemistry at Georgia Tech, received an unrestricted grant for basic research from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—Joseph Doylc (center). South Bend Tribune sports editor and president of the St. Joseph County Council for the Retarded, is congratulated by outgoing Club President Richard Cleary (right) and Dr. Thomas P. Bergm, ND continuing education dean and guest speaker for the Valley Club's UND ^ght, where Doyle was named ND Man of the Year. (Photo &om the South Bend Tribune.) 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 2965 65 
•P Q Arthur L. Rotilc, Jn 1709 Indiana Ave. La Porte, Ind. 46350 
First item of news for this issue is the announce­
ment that o-jr 1965 Aftergame Reunion will be held 

Oct. 2, following the Northwestern game, in the 
Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn. So make >-our 

plans now (i.e. order ^-our game tickets). As before. 
there will be no charge for the reunion itself. Just 

stop in for a drink and a good time. 
DAN BERGIN dropped us a line in December, 

just after the last issue was submitted. Dan is now 
stationed at Camp Lejcune, N.C. Dan finished a 
tour as commander of a Marine artillcr>' batter>' 
on duty in the Far East (Okinawa, Tai\ran and 
Japan) whidi was preceded by a three-year tour in 
Hau'aii. Capt. Dan's family now consists of two 
sons and a daughter, the latter ha\ing arrived last 
July. Dan also reported that BOB FERGUSON 
and his wife Maureen arc the parents of a daughter. 
GEORGE NAVADEL was married last Nov. 21 

to Lori Eugenia Porter in San Diego. George is 
also in the Marines and is in command of a Marine 
detachment aboard the cruiser USS St. Paul, ported 
in San Di^o. His address 2826i4 Keau St., San 
Diego 92106. George was previously stationed at the 
Marine Barracks in Washington, D.C., where one 
of his additional duties was as a \Vhitc House social 
aid during the Kennedy Administration. 
PHIL VOGEL is now \rith Harris Upham in 

Mil%vaukee, in a training program for stock broker­
age, acconling to his wife Pat. Tlie Vogcis now 
have six children, tliree box's and three girls. 
Congratulations to JOHN SENG and his wife Denisc on the arri\"al of John Jr., bom last Nov. 5. The Sengs live at 1224 W. Fanvcll Ave., Chicago 60626. Congratulations also to JIM FOLEY, who was married in June of 1964 to .-^nne Kelley of Greenfield, ^fass. Three da\-s after their wedding Jim and Anne \v%nt into training with the Peace Corps at UCLA. They are now in Ethiopia; Jim is teaching business while Anne is teaching science. Address do Peace Corps, Box 1096, Addis .Ababa, Ethiopia. 
EMILE BERNARD writes from Gainesville, Fb. (1102 N.W. Third Ave.), ivith the following. He obtained his master's degree in nuclear science from Georgia Tech, then w*orked with the Atomic Energy* Commission at Aiken, S.C., for two years. Presently he is at the U. of Florida working on his doctorate in nuclear engineering. 
BOB SCHREINER, now regional manager with the Hamilton National Life Insurance Co. (at 8536 Moraine Ave., Munster, Ind.), writes with the following neu-5. DICK KAVAK and ^rife Mary Ann are still living in Chicago and have two daughter. JOE LESLIE is sales manager for IkfcEwcn Real­tors in Griffith, Ind., is married and has three children. As for the Schreiners, Bob and Mary Lou have two boys, Bobby and Brian, and live in Mimster. Bob is also involved with other Notre Darners, TIM GALVIN '59 and JOHN LEENY '54. in the ownership of the Lincoln Investment Trust Inc., a holding company. In addition Bob is serving as executive vice-president of the Northwest Indiana Crime Commission and as a member of the board of directors of the Carmelite Home for Bo>-s in Lake County. 
We were very sorry to hear tliat JERRY KR.AUSE's father passed a^ray last October, Jcrr>* is a special :^ent with the Commerce Dcpt. in Washington. 
GERRY PASTULA is now senior distribution scheduler for the Denver district sales office of Ford Motor Co. The Pastulas are found at 148 Del Mar Circle No. 21, Aurora, Colo. The welcome mat is out for all skiers heading through the area for Aspen. Jerry passes on this news. TOM MOORE is now in Muskegon, Mich., with Detroit Ball Bearing. JOHN HIGGINS has started working toward a masters degree from Detroit U. in his spare time. BOB COLAIZZI has finished a Nav>­tour and is with Chr>-sler in public rebtions. TONY CIAMBELLI is with Ford in Dearborn (customer rebtions), and was wed last May. FR.ANK ifc-CORMICK is in San Francisco in the insurance business. DAN DALTON is front man for the ''Back Porch Majority," a new sensation in folk anging. 
Dr. and Mrs. JOE EMMITE are living at 330 Keesler Lane, Waco, Tex., where Joe is a flight medical officer with tlic Air Force (Connally AFB). The Emmites recently welcomed the arrival of daughter, Sharon Marie. Joe is due to complete his service hitch in July and will return to San Joaquin General Hospital for a residency in internal mcdidne. 
RON DUR.ANT>, Capt. US Marines, returned from a year's tour in Vict Nam last September. Ron is 
66 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 
RONALD DURAND '58 receives a seventh air medal earned during his tour in Viet Nam Sept. 1963-Sept 1964. His command­ing officer, Lt. Col. Thomas Ross, is making the presentation. Durand is now a Marine captain stationed at Quantico, Va. 
a helicopter pilot and received seven air medals during his tour in Vict Nam. According to his wife Liz, who forwarded this info, the Durands are now living at Qtrs 2933A, MCS, Quantico, Va. They have a daughter, Catlicrinc. 

That's the extent of the news contributed. One final item concerns your secretary, .ART ROULE. .As has been reported prex-iously, I have been stationed in Duluth for the past couple of years as a member of the Judge .Ad\*ocatc General's Corps of the Air Force. I will be concluding my Air Force tour in .August and will be returning to private law-practice in La Porte, Ind. Consequently, all future correspondence should be sent to the address at the head of this column. Hope to see vou all this fall at N.D. 
From the Alumni Office: BOB ERNST was au-arded a grant from the National Science Foundation and the Atomic En­crS>* Commission for a summer institute in radiation, biology and radiochemistr>' at Butler U. DICK SINNOTT has been elected 2nd vice-president of Central National Bank in Chicago. Dick and Mar>- Ann have two children. The quickest way to become president and chair­man of a bank is to start a new one, which is what DON CALCAGNINI did with three other men his age in Hamden, Conn.—the Neiv Hamden National Bank. The three other men are all vice-presidents. All are former employees of the Chase 
'an^ 

DR. JOHN KANE, prdf. of sociology at the University^ chats with two Notre D^imc alumni after Dr. Kane's address at Gannon College, Erie, Pcnn. At left is Daniel Koenig '62, a former pupil of Dr. Kane, now an instructor in sociology at Gannon. Thomas F. Bates '60 (right) is director of public information for Gannon. 
1965 
Manhattan Bank and among them they have 
11 children. 
JOHN CHOLLIS has been named corporate mar­ket analyst for Clark Equipment Co., Buchanan, Mich. John and Gail and daughter Dcbra live in South Bend. 
CHUCK THURN, data processing sales repre­sentative for Royal McBec Corp. in South Bend, has received the company's achievement award at a presentation in New York City. 
BILL GRIFFITH, philosophy prof at George Washington U., spoke on "Wittgenstein's Philosophy of Mathematics*' at the April meeting of the Amer­ican U. Philosophy Club in Washington. 
TIM MURTAUGH, former assistant public de­fender of Cook County, 111., is now associated xrith the firm of Murtaugh & Nelson. 
LEE TODD, a research associate at MIT, has joined the faculty of the U. of Illinois as an as­sistant prof of inorganic chcmistr>*. 
STEVE KOS.ANA is head counselor at LaSalle School in South Bend, Ind. 
JIM GUSHING, communications center duty offi­cer at Ft. Myer, Va., has been promoted to cap­tain US.AF. 
'5 9 J'^'^p^ ^- ^uii>^^ 
Kenrick Seminary 
7800 Kenrick Rd. 
St. Louis, Mo. 63119 

Come on, guj-s, we need help! This is your column, and unless somebody writes in we will be unable to relay very much in the way of news and infor­mation concerning our Class. Perhaps if we make an appeal to the wives lo drop us a few lines con­cerning their husbands, what they are doing, whom they have seen or heard from in the Class of '59, we can be more informative in the next letter. 
One sad note to relate is the death of TED McDONALD's father, Getto McDonald (March 21, 1965). Ted's address is 11 Hillcrest Ave., Wichita, Kan. 
MIKE HANAHAN's wife (Babs Hilger, SMC '58} wrote to us recently to bring us up to date on activities at 2634 Chestnut St., Columbus, Ind. Since graduation Mike has worked at Ar\in In­dustries and is Eastern regional sales manager for the Arvinyl Division (a plastic coated metal lami­nater). Mike and Babs are the parents of Lucy, 3/4. Julie, 2, and Michael Joseph, 6 months. Last year the Hanahans saw quite a bit of DICK MOOTZ and wife Avie while Dick was at Indiana U. Grad Business School. Dick received his master's in June and is working in Newark, Ohio. Dick and A\*ie have a new daughter named Christine, who is about 6 months old. BOB BYRNES has been in Seattle, was recently married and has a new baby boy, Bobby. (By way of explanation, when in this column wc say *'recently," we mean in the recent historical past. It takes some time for some ntws to filter down to us, so as far as the Class is concerned, it could be recent. OK, Bob?) The B>Tneses plan to move back to the Midwest this summer according to a riote on Bob's Christmas card. Many thanks for the letter, Babs. 
CHARLES E. OSTENDORF has come through with some info. Writing from 1325 Oucga Ave., Dalhis, Tex., he reports that upon graduation he Went to Indiana U. where he received a master's in business administration. In 1960 he joined Owens-Coming Fiberglas Corp. as an industrial engineer. He spent one year in the Newark, O., plant and two years at the Barrington, N.J., facility. In 1963 he was transferred to Waxahachie, Tex., to start up a new installation. Chuck is presently the industrial engineering manager. He u-as married in 1961 and the Ostendorfs have one daughter, Andrea Lynn, six months old. Thanks, Chuck, happy to hear from >'ou. 
CHARLIE CARAV.\TI's wife reports the birth of their second child, Ellen Marie, bom Feb. 9. Ellen has a brother, Ke\in, age 3. Charlie is still with Arthur Young and Co., Chicago office CPA's. The Cara\'atis' address is 162 No. Humphrey, Oak Park, 111. (60302). 
I have been expecting to hear from TIM HAG.-VN. I hear plenty about the Hagans of Mexico, Mo. from their assistant pastor, who is a good friend of mine. Just kidding, Tim. Father Stockman has nothing but glowing \vords of praise for you and the clothing business in ^fexico. 
Met DR. E. J. CUNNINGHAM yesterday at St. JohnVMercy Hospital here in St. Loub. My Class had to go out there for physical examinations, and who should be examining my lungs but E. J. He is a resident ph>-sician at St. John's, and he and his wife and daughter reside in an apartment on the grounds of this modern, new (1964) hospital. E. J. promises to furnish us with ne^vs for the next issue. 
DAN FERRONE wrote last \veek from Elmhurst, 
N.Y. (86-19 Ehnhurst Ave.), where he and his bride, the former Jane Lamb, are residing. Dan is cur­rently doing noonday T.V., "Love of Life," plajing the role of Alan Sterling. Dan is also to be seen occasionally doing a network commercial. The Ferrones wicre planning to attend JIM VAUGHEV's ordination to the priesthood at the end of May. Jim is finishing his studies at St. Joseph's Seminary, "Dunwoodie," Yonkcrs, N.Y. 
Some of you may have seen a clipping in your diocesan newspapers shortly after Christmas about one of our former classmates. FR. DONALD SHOULBERG CSC of Norrislown, Pa., celebrated his first Mass, administered Baptism and gave First Communion to his father all in the same evening. Don's father is a convert from Judaism. Father Shoulbcrg will return to the States this summer, as we reported in the last column. From the Alumm Office: 
JOHN MULCAHY was ordained a CSC priest on Feb. 13 in the National Shrine of the Immacu­late Conception, Washington, D.C., and offered his first solemn Mass in his home parish of Holy Re­deemer in Detroit on Feb. 21- Fr. Mulcahy re­turned to his teaching assignment at the U. of Port­land after his ordination. 
PAUL WILLIHNGANZ sent the following: ". . . My wife Nancj* and I have a son, Jon, who is now one year old. I am a Navy lieutenant presently serving in the Submarine Training Sec­tion of the Bureau of Naval Personnel, and attend Georgetown law school at night, along with class-males XLARSII PIDGEON, JOHN HAY^VARD, D.WE BARRETT, JOE HOGAN, and CHRIS FAGAN (all ND. '59—and all, incidenuUv, for­mer NROTC). . . ." 
JIM PETONIC was ordained a priest for the Diocese of Grecnsburg, Pa., on May 25, 1963. Fr. Pctonic is working on his Mx\ in classics at the 
U. of Pittsburgh and has been assigned as a Latin teacher at St. Joseph's Seminar>* in Greensburg for the fall term this year. 
HOR/\CE DAY has been appointed instructor of textiles, clothing and related arts at Michigan State U. He received his MS at MSU in 1963. Horace had weaving exhibited at the Afuscum of Contemporar>* Crafts, "Young American 1962" show in New' York City. 
The following from PETE HELLAWELL: ". . . After graduation, I started to work in New York, but that was short-Hvcd because I came down with TB and was out of action for about a year and a half. Since then, however, I went back to school and received an MB.-X from New York U. I am now working for Young & Rubicam, Inc. in New York as an Assistant Account Executive on Jcll-O pudding and pic filling. I am now married and have two children, Elizabeth Jane, one and a half years, and Peter Jr., 6 months. .. . I would like to hear from some of the bo>'s. They can contact me at . . . 96-10 57th Avenue, Flushing 68, New York. . . ." 
JIM SCH/\AF received the Baseball Executive of the Year Award at the anniul Rockne Club Dinner in Kansas City. 
DICK SELCER has joined the U. of Cincinnati 

-
 as assistant football coach after resigning as XaWer 

U.
 backfield coach. TERRY PLUNKETT has taken a position teach­ing English at Manhattanville College. GUS VERHOFF received his MA in aeronautical engineering from Princeton U. in June. FRANZ SCHEUERMx\NN \yus married on No­vember 14, 1964, to Miss Ann-^farie iferccr. They 



live in Burlington, Va., and Franz is employed by Freeman-French-Freeman, architects. 
SERVICE NOTES JOHN BROECKER, USN civil engineer corps, Waukegan, III., was promoted to Lt. in March. John is on the stafT at Great Lakes. BOB ROBBEN was promoted to Capt. USAF at Reese AFB, Tex. Bob is a student pilot. 
GRAD NEWS TOM MIRANDA delivered the Ray Volncsh Me­morial Lecture at DePaul U. in March. JOE McCOY, assistant professor of chemistry at the U. of Portland, Ore., is associate director of the summer institute for high school teachers of science at Portland. 

WICHITA—Officiating at Universal Notre Dame Night, held May 1 at the Wichita Club, were the 1965 officers: (from left) Secretary-Treasurer Nestor R. We^^and Jr. *60, local realtor; President Ted McDonald *59, broker with Harris Upham & Co.; and Vice-President William T. Davitt '52, attorney at law. 
John F, Geier 
'60 1045 Linden Ave. 
AVlknette, lU. 
From the .Alumni Office: 
;VALT EASTERLY has taken a job with the US Department of Labor as a w.-ige-hour investigator in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
.•\RT FRANZ has been with Swift & Co. as an investment anal^-st for the post year and lives in Broadview, 111. He has a I'/j-ycar-old daughter and a 6-month-old boy. 
TOM CHAMPION has been appointed carpet merchandising specialist with the Chemstrand Co. in New York. 
B.ARRY FITZP.\TRICK announced the formation of a partnership with two other men for the gen­eral practice of law in Maryland and the District of Columbia. 
R/\Y G.-\IO of Washington, D.C., has been ap­pointed director of state and chapter affairs of the American Institute of Architects. 
BRIAN FOLEY has joined the Chicago Corp. (member of the New York Slock Exchange) as a broker and registered representative. 
BOB HORN sent us the following: ". . . On August 31, 19&4, I %\-as married to Jean Carol Dvorak at St. Paul's University Chapel in Afadison, Wis. Included in the wedding party were three Class of '60 members: TERRY LALLY, BOB MINAHAN and BOB BOWERS. 
"TERRY LALLY is now club professional at the Owensboro Country Club in Owcniboro, Ky. BOB MINAHAN is selling insurance for Northwestern Mutual Life in Green Bay, Wis. BOB BOWERS is plant superintendent for the Bowers Envelope and Lithograph Co. in Indianapolis. I am presently \%l)rking on a PhD in English and American litera­ture at the U. of Wisconsin. . . . " 
ALLAN T. GRIFFIN was ordained a priest for the /Vrchdiocesc of Boston on Feb. 9 and offered his first Mass on Feb. 13 in Brooklinc, Mass. 
MIKE MONAHAN has been appointed an asst. cashier of Manufacturers National Bank in Detroit. Mike is a member of the ND Club of Detroit and holds the rank of 1st Lt. in the US Army Re­serves. Mike, his wife and their son Timothy live on Rambling Road in Southficld, Mich. 
TERRY HOWARD has been teaching band music at four elementary parochial schools in South Bend. His bands took several honors at a recent com­petition. 
GERALD PIERCE has been named auditor of the Federal Home Loan Bank in Dcs Moines. For the past five years he has been with Peat, Mar%vick, Mitchell & Co., certified public accountants. Gerry is married and the father of two daughters and one son. He is v-p of the Urbandale Junior Chamber of Commerce. 
Our s>-mpathy to Mr. and Mis. ROBERT CLEM­EN'TS MA on the death of their 9-wcek-old daughter. Loretta had been ill since her birth on Feb. 14. 
SERVICE NOTES LTJG PAUL MARTO USNR has been awarded a PhD in nuclear engineering from NUT. He started teaching nuclear engineering at the Navy Graduate School in Monterey, Calif., on Feb. 15. His wife and two children have joined him in California. JOHN BRUNALLI has been promoted to full Lt. in the Nav'al Reserve and is currently assigned as training officer of a construction battafion at the Waterfanry Training Center. ^Vhen he a not being a soldier he works for his father at the Brunalli Construction Co. in Southington, Conn. DICK S.APP has been promoted to captain in the US.-\F at Sacramento, CaUf., where he is a quality control engineer in the AF Plant Represen­tative Office at the Aerojet-General Corp. 
'61 Nick Palihnidi 
34 Dartmouth Rd. 
West Orange, N.J. 
From the .-Mutnni Office: D.WE HUDSON sent us the following: ". . . To bring everything up to date: (1) on January 1, 1964, I \vzis engaged to Miss Yasuko Taya of Nagoya, Japan; (2) on May 4, 1964, we were mar­ried at Westminster Cathedral, London, England; 

(3) (and this item is definitely new enough to be printed) on January 21, 1965, was bom Christopher Takahiro Hudson, weight 7 pounds, 14 otmces. 
"Our current address is now 136-6IA 68lh Drive, Flushing 57, N.Y. We live within sight of the World's Fair. I'm still attending Columbia U:, uiorking on the PhD. My wife and I spent most of 1964 in Paris, where I was doing my dissertation research. This fall we sliall be in Philadelphia, where I will be teaching at Temple U. 
"That's it from here. Everyone is well, and Chris is growing well and rapidly and smiles a lot." Send us the Fhilly address, Dave, so we can for­u'ard your mail to Fresno. 
Df\N WEBBER is now assistant county prosecutor of Sagina^v Count>', Mich. 
GER.ARD McGRATH, a second-year student ^vorking for liis MB.A at the Harvard Grad School of Business Administration, has been named - one of 16 Baker Scholars—the highest scholastic honor given MBA students before graduation. 
RON HERM has been awarded an NAS-NRC postdoctoral research fellou-ship. He is presently working toivard * his PhD at Harvard and is plan­ning to pursue his postdoctoral fellou'ship at the 
U. of Chicago. 
TOM GARDOCKI was ordained a priest May 22 after completing his studies ^rith top honors. He celebrated Iiis first Mass ifay 23 in iUverview, Mich. Fr. Gardocki is presently enrolled in the Graduate School of the U. of Vilbnova where he 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 67 
b H'vrking lou'ord an ^L\ in education during the summers. He is associated with the Diocese of Willminglon, Del. 
KURT MOYLAN has been elected to the eighth Guam legislature and is scn-ing on six conmiittees bendcs being chairman of the Military- and Vet­eians Affairs Committees. 
PHIL RYAN has won first prize in the fifth annual Local Papers Night sponsored by the Insti­tute of Electrical and Electronics Enginceis in the South Bend area. Phil is a graduate student in the electrical engineering dcpt. at N'D. 
FRED GAMBLE is a factory representative for Style-Crafters Inc., mfgrs. of marine safety equip­ment, and has the states of ^V>•oming, Utah, Colo­rado and New Mexico, plus the El Paso area of Texas and the western sections of South Dakota and Nebraska. He will have his hdqrs. in Denver. We might add that Fred will have his father helping him. 
DENNIS CANTWELL will receive the right to be called "Doctor" this June from \Va5hinglon U. School of Medicine in St. Louis. He \rill ser\'c his internship ^*car in internal medicine at the U. of California in San Francisco. 
EUGENE *'MIKE" O'BRIEN is an assistant US attorney for the Southern District of Illinois. Mike and his wife have two children. 
1ST LT. CHARLES SACHER recently graduated fint in his fh'i^ at the USA Finance School. 
JOSEPH MARTINO LLD '61 \vas elected chair­man of the National Lead Co., where he has been president since 1947. 
ARMAND BOISSELLE PhD received his Juris Doctor from Western Rcscr\'c U. on February 3. 
• # I  John N.  Morcland  
O l  Bookin  &  Morcland  
Law  211/2  East Main  St.  
Ottumwa,  Iowa  52501  

A telephone call from ART ROULE and a letter from JERRY GALLIVAN told me of the death of JOHN G. (RUSTY) BYRNE in Tok->o on February­27 in plane crash. Rusty was buried at 'Williams­viDc, N.Y., on March 12, 1965. He had been serving in the ^farine Corps and was to be released in May. A Mass %viU be offered for the repose of his soul in the name of our Class. 
JERRY GALLIVAN is presently assistant United States attorney for the Western District of New York and states that his political debut in the fall of 1964 was a failure when he was defeated on tlie Democratic ticket running for the State Assembly in New York. Jerry had clerked for Judge James 
C. Connell in Ohio prior to entering practice with a trial firm in Buffalo. 
I had a chance to talk with LARRY HOWARD and DICR BARTSCH at the U. of Michigan law institute in February', and both are cnjo>-ing im­mensely their present endeavors. 
Polly and JIM TALAG.A stopped for a day over Christmas on their way back to California. They plan to settle in California when Jim is released from the service, and he will be taking the California bar in the near future. 
I hear by the grapevine that MIKE O'BRIEN is now practicing law in Decatur, HI. 
I Iiave saved the best till last: A telegram from South Bend, Indiana, received a couple of weeks ago informed us of tlie impending marriage of con­firmed bachelor EDWARD HARDIG and Miss Joan Wolfe of South Bend. They \W11 be married there on the 24th of July, 1965. I hope tliat cver>-one can make it and we can have a class reunion at the same time. 
• # ^ TciTcnce F. McCarthy 
O A 31957 Williamsburg St. Glair Shores, Mich. 
Your ol' CO . has mucli copy to report . . . Patricia and JIM KURAS and daughter Kelley Margaret live in Cincinnati, where classmate DENNIS SWEENEY is an insurance representative and MAX BURNELL works for the Armour Co.; the Bumelb have a baby giri. BILL MULLANEY is employed by IBM in Armonk, N.Y., and is pur­suing his iktBA at the U. of Bridgeport. Bill and wife Betsy have a baby daughter Marlenc Ann. BOB KUFl'Z is a grad student at Marquette and will have his MA in history* soon; he then plans to work for the govt. THOMAS KEISER is employed by the U. of Mar>'land and has been working in the Atlandc area. Tom lias been in the Azores, Iceland, Newfoundland, Bermuda and is presently in Greenland teaching - Aimy and Air Force person­nel who are working on their college degrees. 
Spotlight Alumnus... 
CHARLES H. MAEDER '62 Nigerian Schoolmaster for the Corps 
Charles Maeder of Colimibia, Mo., has joined the legion of international Irish as one of 115 Peace Corps Voltmteers who left for Nigeria in January. They arc teaching in secondary schools throughout the country, joining over 500 Volunteers already at work there in agricultural ex­
Hoivever, he is taking time oH* this spring to get married . . . congratulations! LTJG TOM SLEEPER is still associated with communication media; Tom is assigned to the public information office for the Commander, Amphibious Force, US Pacific Fleet in San Diego; he also b the print officer for the brochures and books that his command puts out and publishes the Force newspaper. Tom sends on his best regards. 
JIM FURSTOSS is finishing his second year of med school at St. Louis U.; Jim is still a bachelor. WILLIAM O'NEILL is working on his doctorate on a NASA fellowship at ND. Bill b married and the father of two boys. 
With all due respects to other members of our Class in the Peace Corps, I would like to cite three in particular. ROBERT J. MORAN volun­teered for a second two-year term and is back at Kent College, Tnaran Aabah, Malaysia, after a six-week leave. ROBERT LOVE studied the language of the Philippines at San Francbco State College and Kilo, Hawaii, before taking hb position as an Englbh instructor at Gubat High Scliool, Gubat, Sorsogon, Philippines. Bob can be reached at that address. ROBERT E. HOFF.\UNT^ entered the corps in June, 1964, and after training at Sj-racuse 
U. began working as an arcliilect for the Tan­ganyikan govt. Bob can be reached at Dar Es Salaam, Tanganyika, Africa, P.O. Box 2613. 
^UKE RICE married Carol Ann Telesco of Stamford, Conn., in June 1963; they were blessed last April witli a boy, Ke\'in Colin (Erin go Bragh). Mike and family live in Willimantic, Conn., w*here Mike works as a research engineer for Electro-Motive Mfg. DENNW O'CONNELL b stationed at Limestone AFB in Catbou, Maine. Denny, wife Gloria and son Denny arc doing fine. IstLt. FRANK CALLAHAN wrote an informative letter which I'm passing on. Frank married the former Hannah Kaber, a Penn State grad. Frank b stationed with the Army security agency in Wor\-entar, Va. 2ndLt. JIM SMITH b stationed at Ft. Carren, Colo. 2ndLt. BRIAN SHEVLIN b a member of the 6th Special Forces Group from Ft. Bragg. 2ndLt. DAVID HANNAH was stationed at Ft. Hood, Tex. Dave often sees TOM KLETT who b attending Houston Law SchooL JOHN HOFF lives in Trenton, N.J.; John and wife Linda have two children, John Jr. and Courtney. ED SAVARESE and hb charming wife Judy and children are in Italy, where Ed b 
tension, riural community development, sec­

ondary and university education and law. 
Nigeria has the largest Peace Corps pro­
gram in Africa, and presently the largest 
in the world. 
Secondary schools in Nigeria are board­

ing schools. Peace Corps Volunteers live 
at the schools and take on responsibilities 
as dormitory or study-hall supervisors and 
games-masters. Some of the Volunteers will 
staff newly opened schools. Others will 
replace Peace Corps teachers who have com­
pleted their two-year assignments. All classes 
arc conducted in English, a second language 
for Nigerians, who usually speak two or 
more of the Nigerian languages. 
This group of Volunteers trained for 12 weeks at UCIA. They studied the histor>­and culture of Nigeria, US history and world affairs. They also studied classroom techniques, preparation of lessons, and teaching methods as they apply to the Nigerian educational system. 
Some 9j000 Americans (including a couple of hundred from Notre Dame) arc now serving as Peace Corps Volunteers in 46 nations of Asia, Africa and Latin Amer­ica. More Volunteers are needed; requests for them pour into the Washington head­quarters daily. Applicants interested in winter or spring training arc urged to com­plete Peace Corps questionnaires (available at your local post ofHce) and take the Corps' Placement Test, given the second Saturday of each month wherever federal service examinations are held. 
studying medicine at the U. of Bologna. Ens. JIM DOLAN has only bis thesb to go before he receives hb KIA in city planning from the U. of North Carolina. Jim received hb commission at Newport and b presently aboard the Saratoga. Another old salt crubing the Mediterranean is Lt. JG JACK CURTIN. Jack b an air intelligence officer for an attack sqd. aboard the Forrestal. Jack writes that GREG WEISMANTEL has given up maneuvering hb tank around the German countrj-sidc for a staff job. BARRY iUHE R and JOE HARRINGTON are rounding the final cur\'e at Boston College Law SchooL JIM KOVAKS finbhed hb tour of duty ­and b now a ci\alian. 
MIKE HART, reunion regbtrar, b working for Ford Motor Co. in Dearborn, Mich., and b being schooled in Ford's graduate training program. Mike and wife Dorothy have been blessed with two children, Chrbtie and the youngest, Michael James Jr. OWEN MURPHY b a traveling representative for St. Martin's Press. 
JACK &L\DIGAN sends out a Car 54 call for all hb old buddies. Jack and wife Jean have two boys, John Patrick and Micliael Joseph. Jack b an analyst. . with the Federal Reser\'e Board in Washington and lives at 2008 N. Daniel, Arlington, Va. DAN CASTELLINE and hb wife have a boy and a girl and were last stationed at Ft. Eustis, Va. FRANK • SARR, uife and daughter Cheryl Ann live in South­hampton, Pa., where Frank b a teacher JOHN MOOSEBURGER works in the transportation dcpt. for a RR company in Chicago. PAT PHILLIPS , b in hb last year at Iowa Law School, where he • works part-time for a law firm, does research for a professor and finds time to write for the Law Review. DICK SCHIMPF, wife and son Ricky live in Cincinnati, where Dick works for Travelers ­Insurance and attends Chase Law School in the evenings. IstLt. JIM (DUKE) BENTLEY USMCR b a senior air director at the Nax-al Air Station in Iwakuni, Japan. Duke saw the Olympics last year ­and will soon be a civilbn. Last fall's ND-%*s-Nav>' game served as a tremendous reunion, wrote BRIAN * (BUCKY) O'CONNOR. Bucky, BARRY MAHER and TOM JORLING shared a room which they 1 turned into a reunion hdqt. Others present were Pete Vierra, Frank Callahan, John Hoff, Ray Shea, Brian O'Neill, Bob Biolchini, Tom Eiff, Russ Hoover, Jim Krauser, Bill Scanlon, Paul Schell­hanmier, Paul Crotty, Quin Denwr, Jim Debow. 
68 Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 
Jim Stone, Jim Gannan, Mike Harron, Charlie Chicago law firm of Green, Murnighan and Kane. SERVICE NOTES 
Monahan, Dick Hughes, Don Maichcr, Brcndcn 
McCranc, Jim Mohs, and Carl Lindstrom. Belated 
congratulations to JIM STONE and Sue Coogan, 
who were married in February, 1964. Jim works 
for a N.Y. brokerage house. GREG WEISMAXTEL 
wrote that he occasionally sees BILL FORD and 
JIM MIKACICH. Jim turned in a fine year on 
the gridiron for his scr\'ice team. 
HEXRY (HANK) BURNS completed a training 

program with the Liberty National Bank in Buffalo. 
Congratulations to BOB BENNET and Audrey Bauer, 
who were married in Sept. 1964. FRED SPRING­
STEEL is engaged to Karen Rohrbach, an ardent 
skier and nurse. Fred received his M.\, was awarded 
a coveted NASA prcdoctoral trainccship and is 
working on his Ph.D in Math at the U. of Wash­
ington. He reports that MIKE IRIBARNE. is 
studying in Poland on the Stan ford-Warsaw Ex­
change Program. Mike did graduate work In Slavic 
studies and speaks fluent Russian. JIM HIGGINS 
attends night law classes at the Catholic U. Jim 
was elected president of the Student Bar Assn. 
after ser\ing as secretary and works as a special 
agent for the State Dcpt. JOHN E. TYLER JR. 
has been elected V-P of New Plant Life, a division 
of Chas. O. Finley Inc. in Chicago. 
Class V-P MARK ,\f/\RQUARDT wrote a newsy letter. Mark is finishing law school at Duke; to keep himself busy he has ser\'ed as head house­master for freshmen and resident fellow in charge of independent undergraduates. He reports that JOE BRIGATI is also at Duke Law School and is an officer of the Duke Bar /\ssn.; Joe, wife Jean and their three children Lisa, Dan and Kelly, are fine. Congratulations to PHIL YAW.\L\N and Donna McGL^TCN of Rochester, N.Y., who were married last October. Plnl is a management trainee with Marine Midland Trust Co. of Rochester, a branch of the N.Y. holding company. DICK HOWELL continues his medical studies at Baylor and remains a bachelor. 
JAIME B. FUSTER sent on some news about our alumni in Puerto Rico. LUIS LIORENS, LUIS COLON and the DEL VALLE brothers arc all married and have families. Also they all live and work in San Juan. Jaime Fustcr is a senior law student at the U. of Puerto Rico and is editor-in­chief of the Law Review. He has received a fellow­ship to work for his Ph.D in Law at Columbia. Jaime w ^ honored by his university as the repre­sentative to Prcs. Johnson's dinner-reception for student leaders of the principal American colleges. 
On a note of sadness we ask that vou remember in your prayers JOHN F. HICKEY BA*62, M.V63, of New York, who died this past January. Also to be remembered are John S. Tarnowski father of JOHN R. TARNOWSKI '62; Dr. John R. Raedy Sr., father of JOHN R. RAEDY '62; WILFRED J­RILEY '21, father of ROBERT M. RILEY '62; and Mr. Wilbraham, father of JOHN and FR.\NCIS WILBRAHAM '62. We know that they will be remembered in the prayers of our Notre Dame family. 
JOHN R. TARNOWSKI has moved to Wyandotte, Mich., from Minneapolis, where he had been employed with the Franklin Appliance Div. of Studebaker Corp. JOHN J. JIGANTI graduated from the ND Law School last year and has been admitted to the Illinois Bar. John is with the THOMAS F. FARLEY and wife Deborah now live in Tallmadge, Ohio (303 S. Ave). Tom works for the Akron sales div. of Standard Oil, They have two girls, Colette and Michele. (P.S. The game and place of last fall's reunion was printed in both the June-July and Aug.-Scpt- articles in the ALUMNUS). Tom would like to hear from" Messrs. Lang, Clulo and Evans. EDWARD (RICK) R.\STATTER ^vill receive his Ph.D in Economics from the U. of Virginia this June. Class Treasurer TOM QUINN, wife Nancy and son Mike are doing fine in Toledo, 
O. Student Body President CHRIS BUCKLEY is finishing his first year at Har\'ard Law. Chris Is too modest to mention It, but my elaborate Info system discloses that Chris is to be congratulated on a military* citation which reads in part ". . . demonstrating leadership and supcr\'isory ability far above that possessed by his contemporaries .. . re­flecting great credit upon himself and the USA and is in the highest traditions of the militarv ser\'icc." J.\MES H.AIGHT will marr>- Partricia Dial of Pampa, Tex., on July 24 at St. Vincent's in Pampa. Jim is a biochemist for the Baltimore Biological Lab and attends the U. of Maryland Law School in the evenings. 
Note: Our 3-year reunion registrar Is MICHAEL 

J. HART, I0«0 Oak Park Blvd. Oak Park, Mich. 48237. Our 1963 football class reunion follows the So. Cal. game on Oct 23, 1963. 
From the .-Mumni Office: From R/\Y Ri\EDY: ". . . Attending American 
U. Law School at nigiit . . . teaching at Mackin High School, Washington, O.C. . . . coach of the freshman basketball team. My wife is expecting a baby in May. ..." 
JULIO VALERA and /Vsst. Prof. Bruce Schlm­ming of the civil engineering dcpt. at ND pre­sented a report at the January* meeting of the Highu'ay Research Board cf the National Academy of Sciences In Washington. 
BILL O'NEILL will be asst. prof of s>'stcms en­gineering beginning Sept. 1 at the U. of Illinois. 
JOHN KEELEY has taken the position with Civil Ser\'icc as bank examiner with the Federal Deposit Ins. Corp., Chicago. 
The RO.NNIE CO.MOs have a new daughter, Wendy, wliD will join Melanic and Ronald Jr. in play. 
DICK JANICK I was named v-p and account su­per\'isor for Mort Lindcr & xVsrociates, South Bend-based public relations and advertising firm. 
CO.NSTANCIO MIRANDA received his PhD from Ohio State U. in December. JERRY KEEFE b working at W.VDU (Notre Dame's station) and is living In South Bend. 
JOHN D.-WIES will be leaving his lieutenant's bars and Fort Bragg. N.C., behind in July and reporting to work for Arthur .Andersen & Co. in Milwaukee. 
TO.VY BILL is still playing "sick,'' thb time for lauglis with Frank Sinatra in the movie "Mar­riage on the Rocks," where he Is a psyxhlatry stu­dent who thinks cverj-body's crazy. We do have to admit that what we have seen so far of hb sick roles he has done a good job. 
A/3 STEVE SHERWOOD was graduated from a technical training course for USAF adminbtrativc specialists at Amarillo AFB, Tex., and was assigned to a Continental Air Command unit at Richards-Gcbaur AFB, Mo. 
I/Lt. JOHN STEFFENS has completed USAF sur\'i\'al and special training at Stead AFB, Nev., and b now at March AFB, Calif. 
2/Lt. TL\f JENKLNS has entered USAF nav­igator training at James Connally AFB, Tex., for a year-long coutsc. 
Lt. MIKE HARTNETT, a training officer at Fort Ord, Calif., received a promotion to 1/Lt In March. 
1/Lt. DICK MUSL\L recently received the 

Army Commendation Medal for honorable and 
meritorious service while serving as the deputy 
finance officer of the 1st Infantry Div. at Ft. 
Riley, Kan. 
GRAD NEWS 
The January issue of the Catholic Education 

Review featured an article by BOB GLENNEN, 
assoc. prof of education at Eastern Montana College. 
SR. MARY GERALD, biology dcpt. chainnan 
at Mt. St. Mary's College, has received a $19,700 
grant from the National Science Foundation to con­
tinue basic research on the yellow fever mosquito. 
In December she presented a paper on her research 
before the annual meeting of the Entomological 
Society of America in Phlbdelphta. 
•Jt n Fnmk P. DsccDo 
V ^ 218 P^Omer Hffl Rd. OM Greenwich, Conn. 

It is with great pleasure that I open thb column with news of the engagement of my former room­mate, DON RYAN, to the pretty and \-i\'adous Marion Aldlge of Wilmette, III. Don will receive an MBA from Northwestern in June and he and Marion will be married in September prior to hb entry on active duly with the Army. 
. Since the last ALUMNUS deadline, many letters have been received from our Class area reps. From Detroit TERRY DESMOND writes: 
•'CLIFF .\NGERS b with Colgate-Palmolive, just having been transferred to New York. He rcceb*ed his MB.A from Michigan and b the proud father of a little girl. GREG SCHWARTZ abo received his MBA from Michigan and he b now the proud father of two sons. Greg is with Manufacturers National Bank here in Detroit. LARRY MORGAN received a similar degree from Michigan and he is no\v- with the Ford Motor Co. R.-\Y BONANNO was married In January to Joan Larin. BOB GESELL was married last summer, as was CIAIR CARNEY. JACK SLATTERY abo joined the wedded ranks and b now with Scott Paper Co. MICKEY WALKER is now with the Ford Motor Co., and he is the proud father of a baby boy. ROBERT BAER b also married, the event taking place last summer to Mary Ann Woods, a St. Mary's girl whom Bob dated duming hb daj-s at ND. BRIAN RICHARDSON Is also married and is with the General Motors Corp. (As you can see, we have many marriages around here.) M.\TT MURPHY b also with Gen. Motors. He and P-\T O'BRIEN and m>-sclf arc bowling together on the same team. 
COMMUNION BREAKFAST — The highlight of the Chicago CIub*s breakfast this year was celebration of Mass in die Byzantine Rite (]cft). Here Father Vladimir L. Tarascvitch reads the Gospel in the all-English litui^. Right: Shown are part of the 225 ND men and their families that attended the breakfast on the first Sunday in Lent at the Sheraton-BIackstone. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 69 
-•One sad note: the father of CHARLIE RIVARD, Dr. Charles Rivard, passed av\ay. "As for m>-self, I was married last summer at ND to Mary- Elizabeth Breen, daughter of JOHX 
F. BREEX *33. Among the *63crs there were CLIFF ANGERS, MATT MURPHY, PETE JASON, PAT O'BRIEN, CHARLIE DRISCOLL, TV DEMETRIO, JOHN VAN DE>VALLE, JOE TOLAND. LARRY MORGAN, and GEORGE COONEY." 
Thanks, Terry-, for a fine letter. From St. Louis, where he is attending St. Louis 
U. La%v* School and working for the Teamster Union, BILL SMITH sends news on the following fellov\-s: 
AL DESKO was married soon after wc graduated 
and now has a small daughter. He is currently 
finishing his second year of a three-year tour of 
duty in the Army. 
PAUL LE\VIS and wife (the former Carol 
Kramer) are now at Fort Ord, Calif. The Lc^vises 
are expecting an addition in July or August. 
D.AVE DEKA married Nancy Garson during the 
summer of '63 and they now have a small daughter. 
The Dekas arc stationed in Germany, where Dave 
is a Regular Anny Engineer. The Dckas arc quite 
sold on the ser\'icc life, where gasoline is 11 cents 
a gallon. 
STEVE PETERS married his hometown sweet­heart during tlic fall of '6i. Steve just completed his course of study for his history- master's at the 
U. of West Virginia. The Petcrscs are reporting to Fort Knox, Ky., as of March to begin the Armor Orientation School. 
LARRY VALLI is scr\-ing his .^rmy tour in 
Thailand. 
RICH KUZ^^CH married a St. Louis giri 
during August of '61 and is now scr\ing his two 
years in the Adjutant General Corps at Fort 
Monmouth, N.J. 
BOB HELRUNG is splitting his time between 
St. Louis Law School and Northwestern Mutual 
Life Ins. Co. Bob just became engaged to a St. 
Louis girl and plans a late summer wedding. 
RICH CONNORS can be found at St. Louis Law 
School during class hours, and when not In the 
library Rich spends his time with a local accounting 
firm. 
JIM LISl'AK can be found at the U. of MIdiigan 
Law School, wtierc he Is maintaining a straight 
*'B*' average. 
GENE FAUT Is married and the Fauts arc the 
proud parents of a baby daughter. 
LON MERKLE spent a semester at ND Law 
School and then took off for Nigeria with the 
Peace Corps. Lon is teaching literature In a local 
high scliool and says he finds his work \-cry' interest­
ing. 
BOB ALBERTINT is married and attending 
Georgetown U. Medical Sdiool. 
JOHN BOKA is married and linng In St. Louis, 
where he is an accountant for GMC. 
Our thanks once again to BILL SMITH for the 
above news. 
Also in the mallbag is a letter from area rep 
JOHN DABROWSKI, ^vho is studying at Yale. 
John sent word that ED BARTON married Rcglna 
Dolldorf last August and the Bartons are now 
stationed in San Diego. He also sent the good news 
that MIKE DEL MONTE u-as engaged to Dorothy 
Kolb In November of '&i. Mike is finishing up his 
doctoral studies at the U. of Penn and plans to 
be married In March, 1966. 
LARRY RABIDEAU writes that he is now living at 381 S. Washington, Kankakee, III., where he is 'employed in the family grain business. 
From Ft. Monmouth, N.J., 2nd Lt. JOHN F. SLO&fAN sends word that he is serving his tour with the Army as a contract price analyst. He planned to attend the US Army Logistics Manage­ment Center at Ft. Lee, Va., in January for a 5-weck course. 
JOE RADFORD, Apt. 502, Stratford Apts., 955 Columbus St., Arlington, Va., is attending George .Washington U. Law School. \Vord has it that Joe spent St. Pat's day in style along \rith JOHN DOYLE, JOHN JOE MULROONEY, BILL 
MORAN and MIKE REILLY. 
My thanks to Lt. STEVE HENNING for sending me the following info on our classmates who are in the Air Force. 
2nd Lt. HANK KILEY was last seen on his way to Stead AFB, Nex-., after getting his wings at Laughlin AFB. From there he will be going to Luke AFB, Ariz, for transition into the F-IOO. 
2nd Lt. DAN WERNER is also at Stead AFB training to fly B-52s for SAC. 
2nd Lt. VERN PELLMAN and wife Connie have mxkotber addition to their growing family, and they 
70 NotreDame Alumnus^ July-August, 
Spotlight Alumnus... 
GEORGE MURPHY '62, MA '63 At Kabuki-za, a Kurogo in Kiunadori 
Pictured above is not a Halloween mask but the face of George Murphy in the "kumadori" or makeup of a legendary prince as portrayed on the stage of Tokyo's fabled Kabuki-za Theater. George has the proud distinction of being the first "gaijin" or Occidental ever admitted as a "kurogo" or Kabuki apprentice in the venerable the­ater's historj'. 
Upon receipt of his AB and master's in English George was awarded an East-West 
arc going to South Carolina, where Vcm will be flying the new C-141. 
Steve concludes by saying that he will be at Pcrrin AFB, Tex., until June, at which time he will be transferred to Panama City, Fla. 
Other Short Notes: A card from GEORGE EVANS. He has entered the seminary and is studying for the Diocese of Natclicz-Jackson, Miss., at Conception Seminary, Conception, Mo. A note from JOHN SRNEC— John Is married, working for NASA as an aerospace engineer and doing graduate work at Akron, U. Word from ROBERT 
G. ROBUCK. He is presently at Craig AFB, Ala., ^vlierc he is flying tlic F-4C. 
At Fordham Law School, where your reporter is presently completing his second year of legal studies, I frequently run across ND classmates TED PINTO, CHRIS LANE, and PAUL KELLY. Chris was recently selected to represent the school on the moot court team. Paul and wife Ruth are anxiously awaiting the arri\'al of the stork. Have also received a letter from another New Yorker, JIM EIDE, who is completing his MB.A at Columbia. Jim said that he recently attended the wedding of MIKE SULLIVAN, who Is at the U. of Conn. Law School. Also attending the wedding were STEVE KNUP, BILL HARDIGG, BOB GANNON, TIM JENKINS and PAT CAWLEY. 
AUSTIN J. DOYLE JR. has been promoted to 1st Lt. at Kerner Army Hospital, Ft. Lee, Va., where he is chief of the personnel division of the hospital. 
Also recently promoted (to Lt. jg) was PHIL BERTONI. Phil and his %x-ifc, Marianna, were married in October at a Nuptial-Military cere­mony and arc now residing at 241 Bonito Ave. No. 2, Long Beach, Calif. 
Out at Northwestern U., ROBERT FITZ­MAURICE and VINCENT LAB.ARBERA have received master's degrees In journalism. 
My thanks to all who have written. Please keep the news coming. 

1965 
Center Scholarship to the University of Hawaii for work towards a fine arts degree in dramaturgy. The grant covered all ex­penses including transportation, tuition, _. books, fees, board, lodging, hospitalization and a monthly stipend for incidentals. The 21-month grant led to his spending six months of it in Tokyo conducting his novel — on-the-job research in Japanese theater. Late in 1963 he took part in the experi- S( mental staging of a Kabuki drama in Hono- "* lulu imder the guidance of Onoe Kuroemon, a seventh-generation Kabuki star. Fasci-_ nated by the integration of elements — drama, music, dancing, mime, singing, stage setting — that made Kabuki "unique, a ­perfect form of stage art . . . what Wagner attempted but couldn't attain," George '" obtained permission to become a "kurogo" and arrived the following September for a live-in apprenticeship under Kuroemon's 1 direction. 
Donning the black "ninja" kimono which makes the Japanese stagehand "invisible," r George set about learning the centuries-old craft of the Kabuki-za in which actors have * • always been bom into the theater—son traditionally following in the father's foot­steps— although his father, Patrick T. > Murphy '33 of Homewood, 111., is an engi­neer at the American Oil Co.'s Whiting, Tnd., refinery. Instruction in the esoteric makeup technique ^vas at the hands of the "j all-male company's leading "onnogata" or ' female impersonator, whose offstage per­sonality is extremely masculine. *«4 
George intends to be a professor of the­ater and drama, assured he would star\'e as / ' a Kabuki performer. But the experience is \ so rewarding that he planned to prolong his !; stay for six months although his grant g would expire this spring. J 
From the Alumni OfHce: 

DAVE DEKA has been promoted to 1/Lt. while semng with the 9th Engineer Battalion In Ger­many. Dave is adjutant of the battalion's head­quarters company. 
2/Lt. JOHN DcLEE, on the faculty of the USA Signal School, was promoted to 1/Li. John and his wife are ll\*ing in Ealontown, N.J. 
PAT DiDOMIZIO is being trained in Torrington as a case worker in the child welfare program of the Connecticut State Welfare Dept. 
The following from WILLIS FRY: ".. . I am still woHcing in the Administrative Division of Prcsbytcrian-St. Luke^s Hospital here In Chicago. Have had several exccflcnt breaks, and the future looks very- bright. Have also been taking some graduate courses at Loyola. I've recently become engaged to Bonnie DcSplintcr, who is an X-Ray technologist employed In the Isotope Division of the hospital. We pbn to be married on the 22nd of May. . . ." 
BOB CARLTON has joined the Civil Ser%-Ice as a digital computer systems operator at the US Na\-al Ordnance Plant in Forest Park, III. JIM GALVIN, also with CWH Service, is a program assistant in the Office of Economic Opportunity in Washington, D.C. 
JIM GRONDIN recently completed the require­ments for an MA in mechanical engineering at Georgia Tech and has accepted a position with McDonnell Aircraft Corp. In St. Louis, Mo. 
GEORGE EVANS is a seminarian at the Im­maculate Conception Seminary in Conception, Mo., "after one wonderful year In law school in New York." 
SERVICE NOTES 

2/Lu. STEVE HENNING, iHKE SEXTON and BOB FERREL have completed special pilot training courses at Stead AFB, Nev. Steve has been as­5igncd to an ADC mission at Perrin AFB, Tex. Bob is with a unit of the TAG at Ncllis AFB, Nev. Mike, also with the TAG mission, is at Luke AFB, Ariz. 
I/Lt. JIM NOTTOLI has earned combat ready-status on a Strategic Atr Command B-52 Strato­fortrcss crew at Seymour Johnson AFB, N.C. 
2yLt. ED CRUMP has entered the USAF pilot traming school at Williams AFB, Ariz., for a year­long course. 
2/Lt. GEORGE WARD has received his silver navigator wings after graduation from the USAF school at Jamt:s Connally AFB, Tex., and has been assigned to Mather AFB, C^lif., for specialized training. 

I/' ., 1/Ll. RON STAPLETON has graduated from the ' USAF instnunent pilot instructor school at Randolph AFB, Tex., and is now with the ATC unit at Mather AFB, Calif. JIM BEST, C-133 Cargomastcr pilot at Travis AFB, Calif., has been promoted to 1/Lt. 2/Lt. JIM PETERSCIIMIDT. previously with the reserve, has received a regular commission in the USAF at Laon AB, France. 
GRAD NEWS 
TED BARTH ^^-as awarded a National Science Foundation predoctoral fellowship for 1965-66 in mathematics. 
BOB WRIGHT has joined 3M Company as a research engineer in the enginecnng division. 
'64 
Warren C. Stephens 778 Coleman Ave. Mcnlo Park, Calif. 
Since the last column there has been an encourag­ing trend toward increased correspondence and I would like to thank all who look the time to drop me a note. 
An especially interesting letter was from JIM ^fcGLOIN who is in Bogota, Colombia, attending La Universidad de los Andes. Jim first traveled to Colombia in June of '64 with Noire Dame's CILA and liked it so much he decided to stay on for a year of study after the summer program was com­pleted. He plans to enter the Army as a 2nd Lt. this summer and also to continue in international studies. Hb letter also contained ne\%'s about the activities of clas:mates in Colombia: KEN TESI is on assignment with the Peace Corps in the back-lands of Colombia, an area accessible only by a tortuous mule ride; CAMILO ARCINIEGAS and GER.MAN GARCIA are both working as civil engineers in Bogota. Camilo is abo teaching engi­neering at the university, and German plans to travel to The Hague, Holland, in August of '65 to continue his studies. 
From DICK. MILES comes news of those currently in Uncle Sam's employ. Dick was assigned to the USS Springfield, the flagship of the 6th Fleet, and will spend tivt) years operating out of Nice, France. Others who were in his training class and were subsequently assigned to duly were: Ens. JIM SHAY, on destroyer duty based in Newport; Ens. JOE O'NEILL shore duly in Minneapolis; Ens. TOM SCHROEDER, shore duty in Willow Grove, Pa.; and Ens. TOM HULL, on destroyer duty in Maj-port, Fla. 
KEN STINSON, who Is currently a civil engineer in Santa Clara, Calif., contributed the following information about the whereabouts of other '64 grads. BOB LESKO is at Wliarton Business Scliool, will receive his MB.A in January, '66. Bob and Katliie Menzie, St. Mary's Class of '64, will be married this August in Kansas, Kathy's home state. 
VINDYL MATTOS and GARY SABATTE are at the U. of San Francisco Law School. NICK MUELLER is also studying law at the U. of Cali­fornia's Boalt Hall, as b LIONEL ROGERS at Hastings Law School in San Francbco. 
RAY SULLIVAN will receive an MS in civil engineering from the U. of Connecticut tlib June. Shortly following the receipt of hb degree, he will be married to Val Kelly who graduated from St. Mar>-'s of the Woods in '64. Another MS in civil engineering will be earned by RICK SHEAHAN at Notre Dame this June. 
2nd Lieutenants TERRY O'HARA and JOE JACINTO arc currently finbhing training at Quantico, Va., and will receive their duty assign­

t-ments any day. 
JIM McGRATH is at Iowa Law School and working for the State Democratic Committee when time permits. 
JACK LONERGAN and hb wife Pat are living in San Leandro, Calif. 
JOHN TURNER b spending a year in Innsbruck, Austria, acting as Father Engleton's assbtant in supervbing activities of Notre Dame students there. 
MARK SHERIDAN b stationed with the Air Force in Biloxi, Miss. Mark and hb beautiful fiancee, Anita McRedmond, are making wedding plans for 
June 26. 
Additional Notre Dame volunteers for the Peace 
Corps are TOM FOODY, PAUL TIERNEY and 
PAT WHALEN. Paul and Pat are in Chile. 
BILL O'CONNER and hb bride, Joyce, are 
living in No. Tonawanda, a BufTalo suburb. Bill b 
in the advanced stages of tJie Marine Tnut Com­
pany's executive training and development program. 
PETE BROCCOLEITI b at William and ilary 
Law School in Willbmsburg, Va. He writes that 
he finds both tlie atmosphere and course work there 
are mo.t enjoyable. 
BILL RUETER b at the Obble Novitiate of St. 
Francb de Sales in Maryland. He will be professed 
in August, '63. 
From the Alumni Office: 
JUAN CINTRON b chairman of the good gov­ernment committee of the South Bend Junior Chamber of Commerce. 
MIKE TOAL has been appointed to the staff of the Harold J. Leycs Agency of South Bend. Mike b studying under the Connecticut Mutual Life Ins. Co. program, which will include some classes at the home office in Hartford. 
FRANK KUZMITS has accepted a position with the First National Bank of Arizona in Phoenix follovring hb completion of Army ser\*ice at Ft. Ord, Calif. 
D.WE PETRE, an employe of Xerox Corp., has received honorable mention in the national Natlian Burkan Memorial Competition sponsored by the American Society of Composers, Authors and Pub­lishers. 
DICK ERL£.\BAUGH has been hired as coach of LaSallc High, a Chrbtian Brothers* school in Cedar Rapids, Io\ra. He'll be head basketball and baseball coach and aLo teach hbtor>'. Dick stayed on for graduate work at ND and helped JOHNNY DEE and CHUCK LENNON wiUi last season's team. 
JOHN POELKER was seriously injured in a bus accident while on dut>' with the Peace Corps in Ecuador, according to word received in tlie Alumni Oflice in March. We hope you're feeling better by the time you receive thb, John. 
SERVICE NOTES FRANK DUNN lias been accepted for the Coast Guard Officer Candidate School. 
1/Lt. CHARLES SWEENEY has been assigned as an assbtant legal officer at the Ammunition Pro­curement & Supply Agency in JoHet, III. 
2/Lt. BILL SW.-\NSON has been named aide-de-camp to the First US.\ deputy commanding general, Maj. Gen. J, F. R. Seitz. 
2/Lt. GREG BRADFORD was commbsioned after training at Lackland AFB, Tex., and has been assigned to an ATC unit at James Connally AFB, Tex., for a year-long training course as a navigator. 
FITHIAN SHAW has been commbsioned a 2/Lt. in the USAF after graduation at officer training school at Lackland AFB, Tex., and b now at Webb AFB, Tex., for pilot training. 
KENT HIGGINS b ser\ing with the 7th Fleet on the USS George Clymer based at San Diego, Calif. Kent received hb USNR commission in June of 1964. 
GR--\D NEWS 
CHARLES NEERLAND has been appointed as­sbtant director of development at the College of St. Thomas. Hb work will be primarily in the area of foundations. 
•£ E James P. Hamtsch 
^9 71 Poland Manor Poland, Ohio 

From the Alumni Office: JOE FARRELL has opened a posh new eatery in Evergreen Park, 111., with hb father-in-laW, oper­ating under the name '*Mr. T." MARTIN ARNAUDET has been awarded a Ro­tary Foundation Fellovrahip for International Under­standing. He will study French language and lit­erature at the U. of Lyons, France, during the 1965-66 academic year. WALT SAH.M helped the US All-Stars to beat the USSR national basketball team in an overtime exhibition game In May. FRANCIS HARVEY has accepted a research fel­lowship from the U. of Pennsyl\*ania, which b continuous until he completes hb graduate work for a doctor's degree in science. DICK TONDRA, who studied here in '61 and '62, has received the Michigan State U.'s coveted award for graduate study, the Alumni Dbtingubhcd Graduate Fellowship, and will study advanced math at MSU. BOB KENNEDY of Chicago won the heavyweight championship in thb spring's Bengal Bouts. KARL KING has been named to receive the plaque of the Indiana Assn. of Certified Public Accountants as ND's outstanding accountant stu­dent thb year. Ten new grads have been avrarded fellowships for their first year of graduate study by the Wood­row Wibon National Fellowship Foundation, Prince­ton, N.J. Three other students and an alumnus received "honorable mention" In the annual na­tionwide competition. 
Sir Hugh Taylor, Foundation president, named 1,395 seniors representing 361 colleges and univer­sities who will receive grants providing tuidon and fees at the graduate school of their choice plus $1,800 for living expenses. 
The fellowship winners and their fields of interest are EDWARD L. BURKE, Fiamingham, Mass., hbtory; THOMAS O. CULLEN, Storm Lake, la., Englbh; RICHARD J. FARRELL, Brooklyn, N.Y.. Englbh; LEE E. FOSTER, Mankato. Minn., com­parative literature; Rhodes Scholar JOHN J. GEAREN, Oak Piirk, 111., poUtical science; W. KELLY MORRIS, Charleston, S.C, drama; JOHN 
T. PESTA, Allentown, Pa., Englbh literature; LEON J. ROOS, Houston, Tex., political science; GREGORY J. THEISSEN, ifinneapolb, Afinn., Englbh; and PETER J. WANDERER. Spokane, Wash., high energy physics. 
The men accorded "honorable mention" in the fellowship competition include WILLIAM £. CAR­ROLL, PeekskiU, N.Y., hbtory; ^^CHAEL J. COY, Loubville, Ky., hbtory; CHARLES D. LOVEJOY, JR., Schofield Barracks, Hau-aii, East Asian studies; and FRATER JOEL RIECK, O.P., River Forest, 111., theology. 
Through the years, 114 Notre Dame men have been awarded graduate fellowships by the Wilson Foundation. The grants are intended to develop qualified college teachers for tomorrow, but recipi­ents are not committed to a teaching career. Ap­proximately 6,000 former Fellows are in college teaching or are completing their graduate studies in preparation for college teaching. Since 1958, the Wilson Fellowship program has been financed by Ford Foundation grants totalling $52 million. 
ST. PETERSBURG-TAMPA—Athlctic Director Ed Krause met the press at a cooferencc sponsored by the Greater St. Petersburg Chamber of Commerce before a banquet of West Florida alumni in February. Conversing (from left) arc Roy J. Deeb^ 
G. of C. publicist Robert Bums, Krause, St. Pctersbu^ Vice-Mayor Nortney P. Cox, who presented a key to the city, and James (Red) Glynn. (CSty News photot) 
Notre Dame Alumnus, July-August, 1965 71 
I­
Office of the President, University of Notre Dame Alumni Association 
Dear Fellow Alumnus: 
As promised last time, here are a few comments from tlie Alumni Board Vice-Presidents on Januar>''s First Alumni Workshop covering "Our Sec­ond 100 Yeais" to begin in 1968. First, Fund Vice-President Mort Goodman on Alumni - Administration - Faculty ­Student relations as reflected in a re­cent Scholastic sur\'ey purporting to represent student religious attitudes: 
I could write an entire article . . . along these lines: (a) our hope that the liberty given the students to express themselves in the Scholastic will also be a\tended to the Alumni Board in the ALUMNUS; (b) a brief statement that our Board is primarily fonned to act in a liaison capacit)' between Ad­ministration and Alumni: (c) that all Alumni were once students, and most students will become Alumni—and we therefore think of the cunent student body in tenns of tlieir future relation­ship with Notre Dame; (d) that our meetings are devoted to studying those areas where we can be of ser\'ice to the Universit)', including the problems in­volving student thought, action and re­sponsibility; (e) that we were highly gratified with the AVorkshop session in­volving student representatives, BUT could it be tliat University "paraded" those lads before us as being the type it would like to consider "representa­tive," whereas the really representative student is more along the lines de­scribed in the report of the sur\'ey? (A weekend drinker, contemptuous of authorit)' and lax in religious duty.) 
Could it be that no one answering the sur\'ey stated that he loved Notre Dame, that he respected the priests on campus, that his religion was more to him than a ritual. If tliere was such a response, why was it not quoted as a balancing extreme; if tliere were no such answers, why do the boys choose Notre Dame — and stay there? . . . Finally, is there no group of students willing to take a stand against the ap­parent trend — to be equally vocal about their faith, tlieir loyalty, their respect? If not, we're in bad shape, for Notre Dame will never be able to rely on the support of any future alumni who failed, as students, to respect all that Notre Dame represents. 
Next. Class Vice-President Paul Fen-Ion reports on the ]ianel he moderated dealing with changes in the class structure: 
My contribution will consist of quotes from an extensive treatment of the Workshop in the Scholastic: "Many alumni . . . realize that times have changed and that Notre Dame must change, too. They are interested in dis­covering the differences which have de­veloped since they were here, and they want to help solve the problems now existing. They are genuinely trj'ing to adjust to the new Notre Dame. . . . Perhaps the best indication of this change in thinking was the first session of an all-day alumni workshop .. . to adapt the Alumni Association to the future and make the alumni aware of what Notre Dame is today. 
"Members of the first panel were the class secretaries of the classes of 1923, 1930 and 1947, Mr. Louis Bruggner, Mr. Devere Plunkett and Mr. Jack Miles. Also on the panel were Senior Class President Larr)' Beshel, Student Body President John Gearen, and Scho­lastic editor Mel Noel. . . . Mr. Brugg­ner discussed the organization problems he faced and commented that students didn't seem to have the spirit they had in his day. Mr. Miles mentioned the changes that had taken place at Notre Dame and said he felt these changes began during or after World War II. Larr)' Beshel discussed the problem of class unity today. . . . Mr. Plunkett pointed out how more difficult courses, greater mobility and emphasis on col­lege attachments have led to a break­down of the class as a reference group. 
"John Gearen . . . mentioned . . . that what made great men before — specifically rules and discipline — was not necessarily what would make them today. . . . Noel discussed the idea that Notre Dame has grown physically and academically but not in regard to spir­itual and social values. . . ." 

Finally, from Club Vice-President George Bariscillo: 
In the, area of club organization, two major fields of future club attention 
1
were highlighted — the one, continuing 
education, and the other, placement. 
The new Dean of Continuing Educa­
tion, Thomas Bergin, enlisted the sup 
port of our 192 clubs in assisting him i 
])lanning programs of interest to al­
ni, hopefully to be coordinated witl 
Iveunions. These seminar-type n 
ings would be conducted in the Kel. 
Center for Continuing Education, no\.-' under construction opposite the Morris Inn and scheduled for completion late this fall. A survey among our alumni clubs indicated that very little was be­ing done at present in the area of placement, and that more attention ought to be given to this important seivice to alumni "in the years ahead. 
Under club organization there was an interesting cross-section study of the typical program now being conducted in the metropolitan cities, as compared with that in clubs in close proximity to the campus and as further compared with programs cuirently being offered our alumni in smaller organizations somewhat removed from Notre Dame. All panelists agreed the clubs in the fu­ture must continue to be alert to changes and revisions that mav be in­dicated witli new alumni attitudes con­tinually developing. 
That should give you some food for thought. Any suggestions you have in ­these areas or for Dean Bergin can be directed to your own regional Board representative, to me or to the Alumni Office. 
Sincerely, 
LANCASTER SMITH '50 
President 





