The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

The Notre Dame 
ALUMNUS 
Vol. 23 FEBRUARy, 1945 Nc 
"The Oldest Naval Unit on the Campus" 
(Courtesy, the Irish, PtiDiant, NROTO Yearbook) 
AUufuU (lelUj40444^ BUIUUM, 
• BY REV, JOHN P. LYNCH, CS.C., '25 j 
IF YOU ASK US, MRS. ROOSEVELT 
Mrs. Roosevelt, speaking on a national radio hookup in January, endorsed the birth-control campaign, which now hides 
under th e title, "Planned Parent­hood of Amer­ica." 
We suggest formation of an opposition organ­ization properly titled "Patriotic Parenthood o f America" to cam­paign for larger 
Father Lynch families. 
Last month in this column we discussed Russia's em­phasis on, and encouragement of, large families. Russia, huge though it now is, stresses patriotism as the motive. 
Russia decorates the parents of large families, gives them a medal and a little social prestige for a pitiful few years on this earth. 

Christ will reward parents throughout eternity for every sacrifice endured in raising one more child for heaven. 
Christ won't have to give a cheap medal or decoration, tarnished with the years. 
Each child will be an everlasting medal and decoration shining high in heaven, shining brighter for every single hard­ship and sacrifice endured, shining and thanking and loving for ceaseless, cease­less ages, — in brief, for eternity! 
One mother of a large family floored a critic of large families with: "I may not be able to enroll them all in college, but each one will thank me through eter­nity for giving them something far bet­ter—existence and enrollment in heaven, . What would you rather have, Madame, a college education or heaven?" 
"IS HELL STILL HOr' 

Since our recent article entitled "Is Heaven So 'Hot'," one alumnus in our travels properly observed: "Padre, Notre Dame sure has changed. When I was down at Notre Dame, it was the other place that was described as hot. Has hell gone out of business with the New Deal?" 
We agreed the other place was still 
doing business, plenty of business with the devil chuckling and able to take time off because so many saps were forget­ting hell—and worse. They were believ­ing hell had gone out of business, mis­led by the sappy writers, philosophers and so-called "enlightened, scientific and progressive religious leaders and theo­logians" who say there is no hell; that God (if there is a God!) is too merciful to send anyone to hell for eternity. 
The devil chuckles and takes a lew more days off because he has these diimb religious leaders doing his work, pulling the wool over the fools' eyes. 
But the devil knows there is a hell— he's there; and Christ knows there's a hell. As God, He made it and He told us about it plenty, and died to keep us out of it. 
Rather than take the word of those "religious leaders" who have never been there, I'll take the words of Christ Who as God made it. 
"It isn't easy to describe heaven," we added after further questions by our host, "Its happiness is so overwhelming that it left the lyrical St. Paul speech­less. 
"But," we continued, "you can get a hint of what heaven must be, how over­whelming, how unbelievably rapturous its joys are when you consider some very concrete manifestations and exhibitions right here on this earth. 
HEAVEN ON EABTH 
"Little Bernadette—^the book and the movie attempt to portray the fact—was 

• so overwhelmed, so rapt out of herself, her soul so lifted above this earth and out of herself that she was utterly ob­livious of, and senseless to, the lighted candle applied to her hands and feet. That was the result of merely seeing Our Lady, mind you, in her undreamed­of beauty. Our Lady and not God, which is the essence of, and main joy of, heaven. 
"Read about some of the saints in 

. some of their mystical experiences right on this earth. They were so utterly over­whelmed by the vision or 'embrace* of God that they were rapt out of them­selves, so overcome by joy that their poor little earthly bodies (in their pres­ent state) couldn't possibly stand it. They swooned and fainted even, the joy so great and intense that it was almost painful. 
"That is the concrete evidence that we have right on this earth of what God can do and of what He has prepared in heaven for those who love Him, serve Him and suffer for Him. 
The "session" with our host began late and lasted long. And as we prepared to turn in just before butting our cigar­ette, we added: 
"And if you want a concrete picture on earth of what hell is, just take that cigarette and plant it on the back of your bare hand, bear down on it and imagine yourself sitting in such pain for eternity, a hot squat and a hot foot, too, for eternity. That's hell for you— 

• and it's still hot and still doing busi­ness." 
"I'm satisfied," said the master of the house. "Sometimes, though, it's hell here on earth trying to be a good Catholic, tut I'm sold on that Bernadette episode. Heaven must be plenty worthwhile." 
"It sure is," we concluded, "that's why Christ died for it—^for us." 
SCIENTinC BUT NOT NEW 

We heartily endorse Dr. D. A. Laird's principles for mental health or peace of mind. Writing in the magazine, yoitr Life, the noted psychologist gives these three maxims for better mental health: 
1.
 Do something, and keep on doing things, for those less fortunate. 

2.
 Develop a wholesome set of ideals, a worthwhile philosophy of life, 

3.
 Love some living thing besides your­self. 


CATCHING UP WITH CHRIST 

Dr. Laird's article is another example of science catching up with Christ. 
He preached that doctrine first some 1,900 years ago. He didn't have to wait for modem science to discover the recipe for man's happiness. 
He created man's nature, knew what was necessary for it long before the Ph.D.'s of today. 
He made love of God and love of our neighbor the simple maxim for peace here—and overwhelming happiness here­after. 
Dr. Laird's principles can be ex­pressed much more succinctly— 
God first, others second, I am third! 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Thii magazine is pablished bi-moatbl7 by the Univeniar of Notra Dama, Notn Daioa. Tm«..t. Eatand 
as second class matter October 1, 1939, at tha Fostoffiea. Xotia Dama, ^""""n. under the act of 
August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumoi Council and of the National Ca^boBe Ahannl Fadaratloa. 
Jamaa E. Anxubong, '25, Editon VHUiom B. DoolaT' "SB. Monagiag E£ter 
Vol. 23 FEBRUARY, 1945 Mo. 1 

The Second Annual Fund Succeeds 
Total on Dec. 31, 1944, of $111,405.56, passes the Centenary Fund total of $107,424.13; Third Fund, in the Annual Giving Prosram, Opens Boob Jan. I. 
With all of the flaws and weaknesses and with all of the room for improve­ment which analysis will show, the alum­ni of the University of Notre Dame de­serve at least one editorial pat on the back for the success of the Second- An­nual Alumni Fund, which opened its books on Aug. 1, 1943, and closed them on Dec. 31, 1944. 
The Centenary Fund, with all of the appeal and the sentiment and the obvious needs of the war era, came to a rather anticipated successful closing with its receipts over the $100,000 goal of the Board of Directors. And from the man­ner in which the number of relatively modest gifts from a sizeable group of givers added up, the Board decided to inaugurate for the University the once-tried and now badly needed program of the Annual Alumni Fund. 
Details and statistics of the Fund will be sent to you under separate cover with announcement of the Third Annual Fund Program. 
But it must be noted that the Second Fund total was raised in 17 months, whereas the Centenary 'Fund actually occupied two years. The program, there­fore, can be cut down, and it is the Board's desire to establish it within a calendar year, and to reduce the "cam­paigning" within that calendar year to a minimum. This, of course, depends on the response. 
Highest Class percentage of givers in the Centenary Fund was that of 1897, with 60 per cent. This Class leads again in the Second Annual Fund with an in­creased, phenomenal percentage of 80 per cent. The Class having the highest number of givers in the Centenary Fund was 1941, with 273. In the Second An­nual Fund, 1941 again leads, nosing out, with its 239, the Class of 1940 which had 238 contributors. 
Total number of givers dropped in the Second Fund from 3,462 to 3,313. The average gift increased from $31.02 to $33.63. 
The Class of 1906 repeated its out­standing performance of total gift lead­ei^hip, increasing its Centenary Fund figure of $20,352 to $25,260, for the Sec­ond Annual Fund. 
Most significant in a combination of numbers and percentage of givers is the Class of 1943, which in the Second Annual Fund found 66 per cent of its members, 214 in numbers, contributing to the Fund. 
Participation was highest in the older Classes, those preceding World War I, and in the Classes graduated since the World War II program began in 1939-40. It is one of the mysteries of the statistics of these two Funds to date that the Classes from approximately' 1920 to 1940, which have enjoyed the bulk of the advantages of Class Keunions, Class Col­umns in the ALUMNUS, and the benefits of the physical expansion of Notre Dame which was dictated by their presence on the campus, seem to be lowest in the per­centage columns. The depression into which a number of these Classes were graduated seems only a partial answer. 
The Alumni Board, knowing that the task ahead in 1945 is securing similar results in a more condensed period, asks your fullest cooperation. You will re­ceive from the President of the Univer­sity, from time to time, statements of the splendid use to which these Alumni Funds have been put. Uses which have made it possible to preserve the charac­ter and integrity of the University dur­ing a critical period. Uses which may grow in urgency as continued rising prices,' low investment rates and pressure of war affect adversely limited endow­ment funds, enrolment and other normal' sources of income. 
Class Representatives have been asked to cooperate more fully in reminding yon of the need to participate A new staff member. Miss Marguerite 'Vaiga, for­merly in the Publications division, has been added to the Alumni Office staff to cooperate with the Class Kepresentatives and to aid in the general conduct of the more intensive program which this Third Annual Alumni Fundjnust.requiTe. 
It goes without saying, that your prompt participation, to the best of your ability, will lessen the work and expense of the program. A first mailing on the Fund will follow shortly after yon rer ceive this AUIMNUS, with convenient op­portunity for contribution. Your answer to that will relieve us, and you, of the repeated requests as the year progresses.' 
It will also bring you the tangible ben­efits which the Fund utilizes to recognize donors. Outstanding is perhaps rectipt of the ALUMNUS magazine. All alumni in service receive this, whether contrib­utors or not, but-otherwise we have had to limit it'to contributors, others receiv­ing the basic contacts contained in the News of Notre Dame, which is the ALUMNUS "digest" Contributors, by Aug. 1, will also be placed on the football ticket preference list in the customary manner. 
And it is not the least of the benefits, though too little advertised perhaps, that all contributors enjoy the Masses and prayers for benefactors offered regularly on the campus. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 


UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS » » » 
ON SPECIAL COMMIHEE 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., presi­dent of Notre Dame, has accepted an appointment to a special committee of the government's Office of Scientific Re­search and Development, it was an­nounced in January. Father O'Donnell attended the first meeting of the group in New York City on Jan. 18. 
The committee was formed at the sug­gestion of President Franklin D. Roose­velt, and the appointments were made by Dr. Vamievar Bush, director of the Of­fice of Scientific Research and Develop­ment. The primary function of the com­mittee will be to advise the government what it can do, now and in the post-war period, to aid research activities by pub­lic and private organizations. 
The committee is a small and selected group of men from educational and sci­entific fields, and its chairman is Dr. Isaiah Bowman, president of Johns Hopkins University. 
HEADS INDIANA REGISTRARS 

Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C, regis­trar at the University, has been elected president of the Association of Indiana Ck)llege Registrars. 
Father Connerton, registrar at the University since February, 1941, was elected to office at a recent meeting of the organization held at Ball State Teachers College, Muncie, Ind. Also pres­ent at the meeting was Rev. John J. Lane, C.S-.C, assistant director of studies at Notre Dame and director of the Office of Veterans Affairs established last June. Father Lane addressed the group on the subject of "Evaluation of Educational Experiences of War Veterans." 
NEW MASTER'S DEGREE 

Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C, dean of the" Graduate School of the University, announced on Jan. 20 that the Univer­sity has instituted a new advanced de­gree for which students will register for the first time in the coming spring se­mester. The new degree will be known as Master of Science in Education. Here­tofore, the Graduate School has con­ferred, on the master's level, only the Master of Arts and Master of Science degrree. 
What distinguishes the new deg^ree from the older master degrees is that neither dissertation nor foreign lan­guage will be among the requirements. On the other hand, the course require­ments will be greater — 30 semester hours being required. On the course work candidates for this degree will have to stand a thorough comprehensive examination. Any field of study in which gr;^duate programs are offered at the University may be chosen as minor se­quences. The same college preparation in any given field, as prerequisite to ad­vanced study, will be required for the Master of Science in Education as for the other degrees. A qualifying examina­tion will be administered to students on entrance and they will also be urged to submit to the results of the graduate rec­ord examination, given by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. 
Among the students of the Graduate School a large number are preparing themselves for teaching in primary and secondary education. It is for these stu­dents that the new degree is designed. It is rightly to be regarded, therefore, as a teacher's degree, in contradistinc­tion to the Master of Arts and Master of Science, which are research degrees. This is why the dissertation and for«gn language are not among its requirements. For this reason, too, the new degree is a terminal degree, toward which stu­dents looking forward to the doctorate may not work. 
The presence of two sharply defined classes of students—those preparing for primary and secondary teaching and those preparing for university teaching and research — in graduate schools has long presented a problem to graduate administrations. In instituting a distinct degree for the first of these classes, while preserving the integrity of the older degrees for the second, Notre Dame feels that it has found a practi­cable solution to this problem. 

ARCHITEaURE DEPT. HONORED 
Winner of the annually awarded Uni­versity Medal of the Societe des Archi­tectes Diplomes par la Gouvemement Francais (American Group) is the De­partment of Architecture of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, according to word received at Notre Dame in Janu­ary from Leopold Amaud, president of the Societe. 

It has been announced by Francis W. Kervick, head of the Department of Ar­chitecture, that presentation of the medal will be made at convocation exercises to be held at the conclusion of the present semester on Feb. 28. 
Expressing his pleasure at the deci­sion of the Society's committee on awards, Mr. Amaud wrote: "I congrat­ulate you and your Faculty most ."sin­cerely on this achievement, and realize that it was good work, together with the whole-hearted spirit of the student body, that made this success possible." 

An individual student medal has been awarded to Clayton M. Page, who stud­ied at Notre Dame while a member of the Marine detachment of the V-12 unit. Mr. Page, a native of Minneapolis, was awarded the honor for having received the second highest number of Beaux-Arts judgments during the school year 1943-1944. 
Founded by Henry Schlacks, a Chi­cago architect, in 1898, Notre Dame's Department of Architecture graduated its first pupil, Eugenio Rayneri, in 1904. Mr. Rayneri, a native of Cuba, later won fame as architect for government build­ings designing among them the federal capitol at Havana. In 1908 Mr. Kervick joined the faculty, and began expansion of the department. 
The Department of Architecture is af­filiated with the Association of Collegi­ate Schools of Architecture and with the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design. It is in conjunction with the latter that the pres­ent awards have been made. 
INFORMATION FOR VETERANS 
In its leading article in the De­cember issue, the ALUMNUS fell into a common misapprehension: it classified all student-veterans on the campus under the provisions of the G.L Bill of RighU (the Servicemen's Readjustment Act). 
As a matter of strict fact, some of the student-veterans are here, of course, under the provisions of the Veterans' Rehabilitation Act, a different piece of legislation, which operates for the benefit of those who have a disability "in­curred in or aggravated by" serv­ice in the armed forces. 
Notre Dame servicemen can continue to get full information about both acts from Rev. John J. Lane, C.S.C., director. Office of Veterans' Affairs, Notre Dame, Ind. 

NEW EXECUTIVE 

Rev. Frank P. Goodall, C.S.C., '20, has joined the executive family of the Uni-• versity with tentative duties of sigpnifi­cance to alumni. 
Father Goodall, who received both an 
A.B. and a C.E. degree in 1920, and was grand knight of the Notre Dame Council, K. of C. during his student days, is studying the organization of an office which will combine work in vo­cational counseling among ungraduates and a program of closer relations be­tween the University and the alumni, especially in visiting Local Alumni Clubs. 
Father Goodall was ordained in 1925 and after work on the Bengalese mag­agine and as iield secretary for the Mis­sion Crusade, he went to India in 1926, where, for six years, he served in vari­ous capacities, including that of vicar general of the diocese of Dacca. From 1932 until 1940 he was active in the for­eign mission work in the United States, as editor of the Bengalese and mission procurator, serving for six years as superior of the foreign mission semin­ary. He has traveled extensively in the United States and written books and ar­ticles in his field. Since 1943 he has been an instructor in mathematics at Notre Dame. 
The new office is a combination of a "ong-time request from the Alumni As­sociation for a priest to serve as liaison between the University and the Local Clubs, and a recent recommendation of the Association's vocational committee regarding vocational work among un­dergraduates, with emphasis on proper guidance of the undergraduate in the securing of training for the job he wants and the securing of such a job to capi­talize on his training. 
More detailed reports of the progress of this new work will appear as present studies of its problems form the pro­gram. 
SPORTSCASTERS HONOR N.D. 

New recognition came to the Univer­sity early in January with the announce­ment that Notre Dame had been awarded one trophy of the Sportscasters of America for "all-around excellence of radio facilities, including visibility of booths, modern equipment, etc.," and another trophy of the same organization for "general excellence of public rela­tions service to sportscasters." The awards will be made at the annual din­ner of the sportscasters' group in New York City on Feb. 5. 
The awards recognize the University generally but they are a special recog­nition of the patient skill and service of two men: J. Walter Kennedy, '34, present publicity director at Notre Dame, and Lt. Joseph S. Petritz, '32, now with the Navy in the Pacific, who planned and perfected much of the pro­cedure in the pressbox and radio booths in the Notre Dame stadium. Joe has been in the Navy for the past two years. 
There are 10 permanent radio booths in the Notre Dame stadium, eight on top of the pressbox and-two inside the pressbox. At most home games, nearly all 10 of these are in use, and for the top-interest games the demand for booths cannot be met. As a result, two addi­tional booths were to be constructed last fall on top of the pressbox, but this plan had to be abandoned because of the shortage of necessary materials. 
GIVES LEQURE SERIES 

Prof. Thomas Greenwood, M.A.D.Sc., D.Phil., of the University of Ottawa, presented at Notre Dame from Jan. 29 to Feb. 2 inclusive, lectures on the phi­losophy of mathematics. Professor Green­wood also held private conferences with students and members of the faculty, every morning during the week. 
Educated at the Universities of Lon­don, Paris and Vienna, Professor Green­wood has been a lecturer at Birbeck Col­lege, London, since 1930. He is the au­thor of several books and many articles. His most recent work which appeared last year is entitled The Nattire of the Transfinite. 
yOUNG RESIGNS; BURNS SIGNS 
Eugene "Scrapiron" Young, '27, Notre Dame's famed trainer since 1930, re­signed his position Jan. 1, to take care of private business interests. 
Scrap will open a summer camp for boys at Covington, La., on June 1, and, after the camp season terminates on Sept. 1, he will be trainer for one of the teams in the National Professional Foot­ball League. In the "olf-season" Scrap will confine himself to the management of his farm interests in Poplarville, Miss. 
To succeed Scrap, the University ap­pointed, in early January, Hugh Bums, '39, of Cincinnati, son of William P. Bums, '96, Michigan City, Ind., and nephew of the late Rev. James A. Bums, C.S.C, '88, former president of the Uni­versity and former provincial of the United States province of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross. 
A native of Dover, O., Scrap Young was a track star at Notre Dame during his student days, participating in the half mile, the mile and the two-mile rans, as well as in cross country. It was the late Knute Rockne, who, observing the busy Young and his durability, nick­named him "Scrapiron." 
While winning three track mono­grams. Scrap also finished in law, with honors. He became athletic director and coach for St. Catherine's High School, Racine, Wis., and remained there until he returned to the University in 1930. 
Hugh Bums came to Notre Dame from Michigan City. A physical educa­tion major and a student assistant to Scrap Young for three years, he partici­pated in varsity track and basebalL Upon graduation, he worked in New York City for two years, specializing in orthopedics. In 1941 he became back­field coach and head trainer at Xavier University, Cincinnati, where Clem Crowe, acting head basketball coach at Notre Dame now, was in charge. Hugh joined the Marines in March, 1943, but received a medical discharge from the Corps in August, 1944, after 18 months' service. He was head coach at Roger Bacon High School, Cincinnati, until he came to Notre Dame. With him are his wife and his two-year-old son, Michael Patrick Bums. 

LLOYD IN ROME, N. y. 

Frank W. Lloyd, comptroller of the University from 1932 until his resigna­tion effective Dec. 15, 1944, because of ill health, has purchased Stanwix Hall, the leading hotel in Rome, N. Y., and is operating it Associated with him in the management of the hotel is Harius Badiny, head chef in the Notre Dame Dining Halls until the first of the year. 
Mr. Lloyd's offices in the Main Build­ing have been taken over by Herbert E. Jones, former business manager of ath­letics, who has assumed the newly-made position of business managfer of the University. William J. Broderick, chief accountant, is the new comptroller, and John P. Donnelly, former director of students' accounts, is the new business manager of athletics. 

WINS HOOSIER SALON PRIZE 
The twenty-first Annual Hoosier Salon, meeting in Indianapolis recently, award­ed second prize for outstanding work in sculpturing to Rev. John J. Bednar, C.S.C, head of the Department of Fine Art, at Notre Dame. The work selected for the prize-winning award was Father Bednar's statue, St. Jerome. First prize went to another university art instruct­or, Robert Laurent, of Indiana Uni-• versity, for his alabaster carving Salome. 
The statue, St. Jerome, is one of a group of statues executed by Father Bednar, under the direction of the Uni­versity. Art Committee. Ultimately these statues will be placed in niches in the various buildings on campus, particular­ly in the new plaza. The statue, St. Jerome, is intended for Dillon Hall. 
B7 BILL WAODINGTON. '45 SpoiU Editei o{ &• **ScheIa*tic" 



ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL 
Bulletin: Kentucky was beaten in Louisville on Jan. 27 in an overtime thriller, 59-58, for the tenth victory of the season. 
Clem Crowe, '26, who took over the Notre Dame cage forces when Ed Krause, '34, departed for the Marines last spring, found himself confronted last fall with a situation that probably no basketball mentor in the country had to contend with—not a single letterman around with which to project a new at­tack. And yet the record as this is writ­ten—nine wins and three losses—is sur­prisingly successful. 
At the start of the season Crowe had the services of Frank Gilhooley, a squad-man of '43-'44, and nothing more. To him, he added the more than dependable services of Billy Hassett, brother of fa­mous initial-sacker for the New York Yankees, who had had previous experi­ence at Georgetown. With this pair at the guards, Vince Boryla, a rangy lad of 6' 4", was put at center, and Johnny Dee, fresh from the grid wars, and Paul Gordon were inserted at the forwards. 
Beginning the campaign Dec. 6, against the Kellogg Field Flyers in the Notre Dame fieldhouse, this new aggre­gation found little trouble in winning, 89-28. The all-time record for points scored in a single game by a N.D. team was broken. The former mark of 78 was chalked up against the Kalamazoo Y.M.­C.A. in 1908. 
Three days later, Miami University came to the campus but went home soundly trounced, 64-32. 
The boys took No. 3 from Alma Col­lege, Dec. 12, here, 71-30, paced by the accurate offensive play of Johnnie Dee and Vince Boryla. 

The first real test of the season came at Madison against Bud Foster's Bad­gers. As always, the Wisconsin quintet was good. They were unbeaten. But after Crowe's lads left the vicinity, they had their first loss, 57-46. An unsuspecting throng of more than 11,000 fans wit­nessed the tussle and went away stunned with the conviction that this edition of Notre Dame basketball is the best to represent the University in recent years. Notre Dame's victory was the first ever registered in the Madison fieldhouse. Vince "Bullets" Boryla, employing a 
combined hook and pivot shot to advan­tage chalked up 18 counters. Only once did the Badgers threaten, getting with­in two points of the Irish in the early minutes of the second half. Late in the game, the winners displayed a dazzling passing proficiency in freezing the balL 
CoACH CLEM CROWE, '26 
He's the father of nine 
For the second time in two weeks, the Irish broke their all-time single g^ame scoring record, knocking over a hard-pressed Loras five, Dubuque, la., Dec 19, 91-44. Although winning most.hand­ily, the Irish suffered misfortune in los­ing guard Bill Hassett with torn liga­ments in his knee. 
There comes a time in every team's life when they really get "shook up", and this happened Dec. 23 ag:ainst Iowa Hawkeyes at Iowa City for the Crowe­men lost their first game, 64-46. With­out the services of Hassett, the Irish were really at a loss. Iowa's more ex­perienced quintet showed real hardcourt ability and that's probably why they hold the Big Ten lead up to this day. 
A pair of holiday tilts with Purdue, the first one in the fieldhouse, Dec. 30, resulted in an Irish victory, 49-47. Bill Gosewehr of Purdue broke the fieldhouse scoring record with 28 points. The re­turn match at Lafayette, Jan. 2, made revenge sweet, 44-32, for Purdue. It was the second defeat for the Irish in eight contests. A 36-16 midway margin was too much for the Irish to overcome, and only a last-half spree against Purdue's reserves enabled them to get as close as they did. The boys of Crowe, for the first and only time this season, were "cold." 
Great Lakes then played host, Jan. 6, winning 59-58, in one of the usual rip-snorting contests that are so typical of Irish-Lakes competition. It was a desperation heave by Dick McGuire in the closing 20 seconds that netted vic­tory. Little Johnny Dee was high for the Irish with 25. 
A trip out to play the Iowa Seahawks, Jan. 10, netted No. 7, 49-44. Three times within the final period, the Seahawks drew within a point of the Irish but were unable to overtake the winners. Iowa City seemed to be to Boryla's lik­ing for against Iowa he scored 26 tallies, tying the Notre Dame record for a sin­gle game and then against the Seahawks he hit for 25. 
Bill Chandler's boys from Marquette came to town next and, unfortunately for them, were the victims of a 79-56 lick­ing. Speed was accentuated in the con­test and although Marquette looked threatening only at the outset, Billy Hassett scored 22 points, five buckets of which were from almost mid-court in near-miraculous succession. 
With the victory string now at eight and three, the return match with Great Lakes in the Chicago Stadium, Jan. 20, was a natural. The Irish were pre-game underdogs—^but, a team with determina­tion, hence a 55-51 triumph. It was nip and tuck all the way, but, with Johnnie Dee getting in for 23 and George Ratter-man for 14, the Irish had enough to win. Although a Lakes had a halftime advantage of 31-30, the Irish were quick to take up the offensive in the second half. For the fourth successive season, Great Lakes and Notre Dame had split even in basketball. In each year, Great Lakes won the first game and Notre Dame the second. And, of course, the over-all football record is even too— with a victory apiece and two ties. 
TRACK 
Coach Elvin "Doc" Handy has ar­ranged the following track schedule for the 1945 indoor season: 

Feb. 3—Western Hichisan at Notre Dame Feb. 10—Uichigan Relays at Ann Arbor Feb. 17—Ohio, Illinois and N.D. at Clianip::ign Feb. 24—Iowa Pre-FIight, Purdue, at Notre Dam? Mar. 10—Central Collegiates at East Lansine Mar. 17—^Daily News meet at Chicago Mar. 27—Purdue Relnys at Lafayette Mar. 31—Iowa Pre-Flight Belays at Iowa City 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

^education, Quo Vadis? 
(The observance of Universal Notre Dame Communioti Sunday on Dec. 10, 1944, tvas especially marked this year by this address of Father O'Donnell before the Notre Dame Club of New York City at.its breakkfast in the New York Ath­letic Club. Preceding the breakfast, members of the Notre Dame Club assist­ed at Father O'Donnell's Mass in St. Patrick's Cathedral. . . . Accounts of the observances elseiohere in the country of Universal Communion Sunday tvill be found in the club nexus in this issue. —Eds.) 
The common bond that draws us to­gether this morning is a spiritual mani­festation of the strong tradition of Notre Dame, a tradition that is religious and patriotic. I should say, indeed, that it is patriotic because it is religious. I count it a privilege to take part in this meeting and to tell you what is going on at Notre Dame today, and why it is going on. 
So much is going on, and the demands being made of your Alma Mater are so great, that we had a sympathetic ear for an incident supposed to have taken place on the campus obstacle course where a squad of naval trainees were being put through their paces. The ob­stacles got tougher and tougher, and finally one boy dropped to the ground, clutching his ankle. The hardbitten chief in charge came over and said, "What's the matter with you?" "I think I've fii-oken my leg," was the answer. "All light, you've broken your leg," growled the chief. "So what? Don't lie there do­ing nothing. . . . Start doing push-ups." 
In a manner of speaking, the effect of the war has had many institutions of higher learning doing push-ups. I shall not dwell upon these, however, nor upon the steps that Notre Dame took, and that she is still taking, in order best to adjust our facilities to our country's needs. The ALUMNUS keeps you well in­formed of them. You know that we have long been offering college-level courses to defense workers; that special re­search for the government is constantly 
° A more comprehensive statement on compul­sory mUitary trainini? by Father O'Donnell will appear in "The Ave Maria** for Feb. 10, 1945. 
BY REV. J. HUGH O'DONNELL, CS.C* President of the University 
going on in our laboratories; that part of our facilities have been turned over to a Naval Resei-ve Midshipmen's School; that we-are proud of our R.O.­
T.C. unit, and that for more than a year we have had a complement of V-12 stu­dents on the campus. 
liather, I should like to look into the future to the day when the war is over and Notre Dame is again completely ful­filling her primary purposes as a univer­sity There will be need for Notre Dame when peace comes—a greater need than ever for the intellectual and spiritual stability that can produce leaders who cherish eternal truth. Perhaps I can best emphasize the need for education such as Notre Dame can give by recalling to you the course that much of American education followed during the past few generations. 
Know-How and Know-Why 

The truth is that some years ago too many schools went on a pedagogical joy­ride. They ran red lights, rounded curves on two wheels, and loftily igrnored all danger signals along the road. Maybe it was fun while it lasted, but the crash was inevitable. Now as the joy-riders look over the wreckage, they finally know for a certainty what at least some of them must have begun to suspect. The ma­chine was jerrybuilt; the desig^ner was incompetent; and the driver was more interested in showing off than in the safety of his passengers. 
Well, the wrecked machine is small loss. It was a bad investment in the first place. The tragedy is that several gener­ations of young Americans were taken for a ride. The so-called educators know now that there should have been no room in the curriculum for credit in tap danc­ing and millinery prowess, and that the learned discourse about percentile quo­tients and sublimination theories is just so much pedagogical double-talk. It seems to have taken the awful impact of a global war to bring home the reali­zation that a great deal of what was carelessly called education was not edu­cation at all. At best, it was a super­ficial training that consistently and cu­mulatively failed to meet the problems of a society that is not composed of robots, but of men and women endowed 
by their Creator with understanding and 
free will. 
This is not Christian- It is not Amer­ican. When America was yooncr, educa­tion was firmly gronnded on the troth that knowledge of God is the beginning of wisdom. In Colonial times, when oar first colleges were founded, its basis was Christian. Sach it remained for some time after the b^nnihgs of the Sepnb­lic because the fathers of our- coontry were religions-minded men who bdieved in the existence of God, the God^ven rights of man, and the dignity and integ­rity of the human personality.; . ; : 
About the latter part of-the 'nine­teenth century, however, a great deal of education came under the infiuenee of secularism, a philosophy that denies God and confines man's destiny to this earth. The result was that it began to confuse means with ends. To paraphrase Dean Manion of the Notre Dame College of-Law, it became so fascinated by - the . know-how of education that it forgot all about the know-why. It felt that it was doing its ftdl duty when it taught-man how to make a living. It saw no necessity for teaching him-how to live welL The reasons for these shortcomings—and we see their results on every side of ns— lie in a failure, or refusal, to understand the nature and the end of man. 
TIw FaSar* of- Secnlarum 

What, specifically, does secularism fail, or refuse, to understand? Just this: that man's soul gives him intellect. and will. It sets him above brute creation' and makes him long to be the child.of God that he is destined to be. Accounta­bility to the Creator is the ultimate end of every soul. But God is just. Nothing is more manifest than the fact that if" man is to he held accountable for his acts, he must be free to act, to accept or to reject God's commandments. Heiiee, God, Who gave us life, gave us the twin boon of freedom—an unalienable right, the n^ration of which is a defiance of God's creative purpose and a denial of man's individual responsibility-to God. The tragedy of our times is that under the changing labels of materialinn, ra­tionalism, agnosticism, modernism, ^ and naturalism, a purely secular education destroyed the harmony of the world, east 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
God out of the life of man, and gradual­ly dehumanized man himself. It made of man a glorified animal, sufficient to himself because his sufficiency was from nature, and not from nature's God. 
Please observe that much of this proc­

ess of disintegi-ation has been carried on under the name of progress—of "pro­gressive education," to be exact—and that much of it has been inspired by John Dewey of Teachers' College, Co­lumbia University. Because of that lat­ter circumstance, you will be interested in a quotation from Dr. Nicholas Mur­ray Butler's address at the opening of Columbia's academic year last Septem­ber. Dr. Butler said: "No more reaction­ary influence has come into education than that which is oddly described as progressive education. This plan of ac­tion or rather non-action would, in its extreme foi"m, first of all deprive the child of his intellectual, social, and spir­itual inheritance and put him back in the Garden of Eden to begin all over the life of civilized man. . . . He must be taught nothing which he does not choose to learn. He must not be subject to dis­' cipline in good manners and morals. . . . It is just such fantastic doctrines as these which explain so much of what goes on day by day which both shocks and alanns truly civilized human 
beings." 
Mr. Thomas F. Woodlock, former edi­tor of the Wall Street Joi'nial, and I>ae­tare Medallist for 1943, is even more specific in his indictment when he writes: "Is it not an ironical and para­doxical absurdity that our public pri­mary education carefully eliminates from its curriculum all information as to the one thing upon which our whole theory of government and our elemental liberties depend, namely, religion? The result is that a boy or a girl whose edu­cation is wholly confined to our public school system is unable to offer a logical defense of the vei-y first principles upon which the loyalty professed by him or her to our flag is founded. Find sense or logic in that if you can. I can not." 
Religion Is the Cornerstcne 

One of the first steps in a return to the American tradition of education, it seems to me, is to re-establish in our col­leges and universities curricula in which the liberal arts are taught vnth religion as the cornerstone of the program. This statement needs some elaboration. Please understand that I am not minimizing the importance of sound professional or technical training. Our doctors, lawyers, engineers, and scientists must have the best possible facilities as they prepare for their chosen work. But before he is a doctor, lawyer, engineer, or scientist. 
a man is a man. He must be educated as such. His means of livelihood is only part of a full life. Professional training, which develops men qualified in their respective fields, falls properly within the scope of the professional or voca­tional school. But the primary purpose of the college is to educate the whole man in the finest traditions of Christian culture, to help him mature his faculties of intellect and will. If we are to develop men with qualities of leadership, we must restore a balance between the lib­eral arts and the technological or spe­cialized subjects. 
Compulsory Military Training 

But revision of the college curriculum alone is not enough to restore Christian education to the place it ought never to have lost. As I see it, we must also re­vive the practice of beginning education in the home, which is the first seat of all true learning. If so many parents had not abandoned the custom of lessons and prayers at the mother's knee—:that is, if parents had not become delinquent—the problem of juvenile delinquency would not be shocking the nation. Not until God-fearing parents again rear God­fearing children will we have a sound foundation upon which to build for the future. And, come to think of it, it would be a good idea to have a slow-down in the output of teacher-factories. I intend no reflection on the real teachers' col­leges, which are an asset to education. But far too many institutions apply the methods of the production line to the training of teachers, and among their products are many of the teachers and school administrators whose philosophy is inimical to the American heritage. 
Along with these changes, which deal with the essence of education, and which are necessary to the nation's intellectual and spiritual strength, are some others that are incidental to the war and its aftermath. For instance, the issue of military training will be a lively one after the war. As a matter of fact, it is lively even now. We know from experi­ence that some military training is ad­vantageous and even wise; and undoubt­edly we will maintain a larger peacetime army and navy than ever before. You can readily see, however, what will hap­pen to our educational system if we adopt the European policy, which would be disastrous, not only to the schools, but also to home life. 
I fully subscribe to the prevailing be­lief that we must be a military, but not a militaristic, nation. That is, we do not. want a military caste. Far less do we want the nation to become imbued with the expedient ideology characteristic of such a caste. Furthermore, we must be very careful to protect the parent's right to determine the education of his chil­dren. Although the problem bristles wth difficulties, we should be able to work out a solution that will serve our country's best interests in the true American way. 
As a means to the end we desire, I suggest a more intensive use of universi­ties, colleges, and high schools as a training ground for the army and navy, and also a revival of the national g:uard, strengthened and adapted to the mech­anism of modern warfare, so that it would literally be a guard of the nation. I do not know if such a course would be acceptable to our military leaders, yet it occurs to me that its possibilities should be explored. 
The foregoing rests on the premise of a peacetime nation, as part of a univer­sal peace program supported by some kind of international organization. If, however, we are going to prepare for another war, which God forbid, the com­plexion of the problem is entirely changed. Then, I suppose, the course to follow is to apply the principles of the Selective Service Act with this reserva­tion, namely, that serious consideration be given to the future leadership of the country. The reason is that if we con­tinue the present policy it will not be long until the nation is bereft of men capable of leadership in all branches of human endeavor. England and Canada, by the way, do not intend to have any "lost generation." Out of their broad ex­perience of war, they have spared no effort to preserve their colleges and uni­versities, and it is worthy of note that the character and integrity of their institutions of higher learning is still unimpaired after five years of World War II. 
Plans Not Based on Religion 

Many of the plans that have been pro­posed for education after the war lack promise because they have the same fatal weakness that led to the intellec­tual and spiritual bankruptcy that is characteristic of the age. That is, they are not based on religion; they do not recognize God and the moral law; they treat man purely as an automaton. And here, it seems to me, is the task that lies before us: The best investment that America can make today is in the youth that will be the leaders of tomorrow. And no agency can produce the leader­ship our country so urgently needs but the colleges and universities that will take their stand on the educational leg­acy that is ours from the shores of Gali­lee—^the legacy that teaches men to live well here on earth so that they may live forever hereafter. 
(Continued on PaKe 211 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Board Meets January 27-28 
Considers Program for 1945 In Light of Changing Conditions 
The Board of Directors of the Alum­ni Association met at Notre Dame on Saturday and Sunday, Jan. 27 and 28. Present were Honorary President Rev. 
J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president Thomas F. Byrne; vice-presidents Ger­ald Ashe and E. B. Bailey; directors Rev. M. L. Moriarty, John T. Higgins and William J. Mooney; alumni office directors James E. Annstrong and Wil­liam R. Dooley. Rev. Frank P. Goodall, C.S.C, attended a part of the sessions. 
The Board discussed the program for 194.5, and the growing need for partici­pation by all members in the increasing problems of the Association as it con­tinues to cooperate with the University. 
After hearing a most stimulating presentation of the University's status, with all of the problems further pro­gress involves, the Board emphasized the need for intensified attention to the present helpful programs which are be­ing fostered: 
1. The Third Annual Fund, which, de­spite the success reflected in both the Alumni and Public Relations reports for 1944, must enjoy continued and in­creased success if the University's op­portunities and obligations in the post­war or continuing war periods are to be met. 
2.
 Cooperation in restoring a full en­rollment, now at a very low ebb through Navy program curtailment and the se­lective service limitations on civilian enrollment. 

3.
 Development of a coordinated lay and religious leadership based on train­ing in fundamental principles, which through the Local Alumni Clubs, will bring the force and benefit of this lead­ership into all the major areas of this country and into the national problems challenging such contributions. 

4.
 Preparation for the placing of Notre Dame veterans in both industry and education to their maximum benefit. 

5.
 Improving the mechanics of the As­sociation and the University to serve all of this program eflfectively. 


'WWWM^'^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^V^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^M^^V^^^^^^^^^^^^^V^^'^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^M^^^^S^ 

REGISTRATION DROPS 

Beginning with the March semester, Notre Dame's contingent oi' Nary V-12 students will iail below 800, possibly nearer to the 700 minimum. With a pre­registration of some 600 civilians and a very low listing of new students in tliis spring period, total University enrollment may fall below 1,500. 
No announcement of further Nary ciu­tailmcnt affecting Notre Dame has been made, although the bill before Congress for converting the V-12 program may soon bring changes to the campus set-up. The Midshipmen's School will continue to operate in this next semester according to present advice, although this, as alumni know, is concerned only with physical facilities and not with the academic parts of the University. 
The low University enrollment will in­volve many curtailments within the Uni­versity's own program, although every effort will be made to preserve essentials. Substantial increase in eiuoUment in luly will be vital to the normal life of the Notre Dame program, and all alumni are asked to cooperate in contacting students and parents to this end. Rev. James Coimer­ton, C.S.CM registrar, will be pleased to send current literature to any address furnished by alumni or to answer cor­respondence concerning enrollment. 

FOOTBALL BANQUET. JAN. 8 
On Jan. 8, more than 500 Notre Dame men and their guests gathered at the In­diana Club in South Bend, in the 25th annual civic testimonial banquet honor­ing the Notre Dame football team of 1944 and its coaches. 
Speakers included University Presi­dent Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C; Joe Boland, club president; Mayor Jesse I Pavey; Commandant Capt. J. Bichard Barry, USN; Coach Claude Simons, Tu­lane University; Coach Lynn Waldorf, Northwestern University; Sports Col­umnist Jim Kearns of the Chicago Sun; Bill Alexander, director of athletics at Georgia Tech; Cmdr. Jim Crowley, US­NR, and Coach Ed McKeever. 
Applause greeted Father O'Donnell's announcement that Lt. Frank Leahy, serving in the Pacific theater of war, had signed a long-term postwar contract to return to his old job as director of athletics and head football coach at Notre Dame. Turning to Ed McKeever, who is carrying on for Leahy, Father O'Donnell told him that he "can stay at Notre Dame as long as he likes." 
Committee members included John Mclntyre, Jei-ome Crowley, Joseph W. Nyikos, Albert McGann, Joe Boland, 
 Sf«Mifld ALmni 
^MMMMMMM^#«MMMAMMM^M#^M«M^«MMMMM«^»MM««MMM^ 
RT. RET. MSGH. MAURICE F . GsirnN, '04 
T)T. REV. MSGR. MAURICE F. GRIF­
•"' FIN, '04, LL.D. '22, pastor of S t Philomena's Church, East Cleveland, was one of six outstanding hospital adminis­trators of the United States to partici­pate in December in the Second Regional Institute of the Inter-American Hospital Association in Lima, Peru. Msgr. Griffin addressed the Institute on "The History of Hospitals." 
In Cleveland in October, 1944, at its annual meeting, the American Hospital Association, presented its annual award of merit, a gold medal and citation, to Msgr. Griffin, "a' distinguished prelate, student of human welfare and observer of social legislation." 
The first priest ever to hold an impor­tant elective office in the American Hos­pital Association, Msgr. Griffin has been a senior trustee of the association for the past 27 years. He was also on the original executive conmrittiee of the Catholic Hospital Association, and has been its vice-president for the past 16 years He is treasurer and past presi­dent of the Ohio Hospital Association, a charter member of the American College of Hospital Administrators and a mem­ber of the editorial board of Modem Hospital. 
Frank Miles, William Richardson, and Judge Albert L. Doyle, who also served as toastmaster. 
The club also honored Eugene (Scrap) Young who had left his posi­tion as trainer at the University. 
» » »




IMVERSnr GIFTS 
The President of the University of Noti-e Dame acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts during 1944 to the Unrestricted Funds and to the several other Foundations and purposes of the Univer­sity. (These gifts, made through the Office of the President or through the Office of Public Relations of which J. Arthur Haley, '26, is director, include some alumni gifts already acknowledged in the regular reports of the Second Annual Alumni Fund. The word "additional" denotes previous gift(s) to the Uni­
versity. Ed.)  
Unrestricted Funds  
Anonymous —_ — $5,000.00 Anonymous (additional) ——~—— 5.000.00 Arthur S. Funk, LaCrosse, Atis. (add'l). 5.000.00 L. H.. Robert L. and James Hamilton. 5.000.00 Bacine. Wis. (additional) 4.000.00 Anonymous (additional) -. ChicaRO, South Shore and South Bend 2.500.00 Railroad Jack and C. Craic Whitaker, Kansas City, Mo. (additional)­2.000.00 Robert H. Rolfs. West Bend. Wis. (add'l) 1.500.00 William C. Schmitt, Portland, Ore. (add'l) 1.300.00 Hu^h Dean. Detroit (additional) — 1.200.00 Ralph and Lincoln Sollitt. South Bend (additional) — 1.200.00 The Denham Theatre, Inc. Denver (add'l) 1.065.00 Anonymous 1.000.00 Anonj-mous (additional) 1,000.00 Anonymous (additional) 1.000.00 Anonymous (additional) 1,000.00 1,000.00 Edward F. Bessey. Chicaso (additional).. 1.000 00 Leonard R. Condon. Rockford. 111. (add'l) 1.000.00 Terence B. CbsRrove. Los An;jreles (add'l) 1.000.00 Mrs. Marparet A. Couzens, Pontiac. Mich. 1.000.00 William H. Dansforth. Boston. Mass Joseph A. LaFortune. Tulsa. Oklahoma (additional) . 1.000.00 Peter F. McShane. Chicago (additional).. 1.000.00 John J. O'Brien. South Bend (additional) 1.000.00 Bartholomew O'TooIe. Chicago 1.000.00 Sparrow E. Purdy, Chicago (additional) 1.000.00 Robertson Bros. Dcpt. Store. South Bend 1.000.00 Fred B. Snite. Chicago (additional) 1.000.00 Mr. and Mrs. F. C. Solari. Pembroke, Mass. (additional) 1.000.00 Warner Brothers Pictures, Inc., New 1.000.00 York City (additional) 500.00 Anonymous (additional) Balaban & Kalz South Bend Theatres (additional) __— ... soo.oo Leonard W. Condon. Rockford. HI. (add'l) 500.00 Mrs. Laura B. Corbett. Chicago (add'l) 500.00 James E. Coston, Chicago (additional) 500.00 Joseph F. Donahue, South Bend (add'l) _ 500.00  diaries D. Maginnis. Brookline. Mass. (additional) James B. McCahey. Chicago (additional) John P. Murphy, Cleveland (additional). Edwin Silverman, Chicago (additional) William Veeneman and Sons, Louisville (additional) J. Bruce Allen. Chicago (additional)­Lieut. Gerald P. Dwyer, Chicago J. Grover Kelley, Los Angeles E. Lowitz, New York City (additional).. Paul B. Belden, Sr.. Canton. O Oscar J. Dorwin, New York City Edward J. Glynn. Somcrs, Conn Earl F. Gruber, Frankfort, Ind. (add'l)_ J. Bell Moran. Detroit (additional) Anonymous (additional) Jack Cohn. New York City A. George Costello. Cliicago (additional)­Joseph A. Conerty. Chicago (additional) R. V. Hyland, Long Island City, N. Y. (additional) E. L. Lalumier. Chicago (additional) John J. Quinn. Rahway, N. J. (add'l) Leo J. Rasche. New York City (add'l) — John C. TuUy, LaGrange, HI. (add'l) Jasper H, Lawton, South Bend (add'l) Anonymous (additional) Lt. B. N. Brockman. c/o Fleet Post Office, San Francisco Clyde E, Broussard, Beaumont, Texas (additional) Richard O. Bums. Chicago (additional)­Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., Newark. N. J. (additional) Lt. Cmdr. W. J. Corbett. Great Lakes, rl . (additional) Harry D. Crooks, Chicago (additional) — Patrick J. Dee, (Chicago (additional) Joseph Farell, New York City Mr. and Mrs. M. Lloyd Freese. Tulsa, Okla.  500.00 500.00 300.00 500.00 500.00 300.00 300.00 300.00 300.00 250.00 250.00 250.00 250.00 250.00 200.00 200.00 200.00 200.00 200.00 200.00 200.00 200.00 200.00 103.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00  A. F. Fries, Peru. Ind. (ailditional)­100.00 Paul D. Gilbert. South Bend 100.00 Mrs. Vincent A. Gorman, Sr., Kingston. N. Y. (additional) 100.00 Augustin S. Hardart, New York City 100.00 Basil Harris, New York City. 100.00 John L. Hcnnessy. New York City (additional) ~-100.00 Mr. and Mrs. Harry G. John. Wauwa­tosa. Wis. (additional) 100.00 Byron V. Kanaley. Chicago (additional) 100.00 Charles C. Ker^vin. Chicago (additional) 100.00 Edgar Kobak, New York City (add'l) 100.00 Alexander Manta, East Chicago, Ind. (additional) 100.00 Fred C. Miller, Milwaukee (additional) — 100.00 Albert McGann. South Bend (additional) 100.00 Franklin McSorley, Pittsburgh (add'l) — 100 00 Ralph J. Mills. Chicago 100.00 Michael F. Mulcahy. Chicago— 100.00 Joseph H. Murnane. Chicago. 100.00 Joseph M. Noll. Milwaukee 100.00 Hon. John F. O'Connell. Chicago (add'l) 100.00 Alfred M. O'Meara. Denver 100.00 Chris Paschen Maintenance Company. 100 00 Chicago 100.00 WendeU T. Phillips. Milford. Mass. (add'l) 100.00 A. D. Plamondon, Jr., Chicago (add'l) — 100.00 John P. Roche, Chicago (additional) L. H. Skoglund. Western Springs. III. 100.00 (additional)' 100.00 S. P. Skouras, New York City (add'l) — 100.00 E. R. Sorensen. Chicago J. E. Spain. San Bernardino. Calif 100.00 Tom Taylor, Scranton. Pa. (additional).. 100.00 John J. Theisen. St. Joseph, Mich, (additional) 100.00 William E. Voor, South Bend (add'l )­100.00 Earl L. Walsh. Chicago 100.00 Albert Warner, Burbank, Calif, (add'l) -100.00 H. H. Warner, Burbank, Califoria (add'l) 100.00 George H. Williamson, Chicago (add'l) 100.00 Albert F. Zahm. Washington, D. C. (additional) 100.00  

Student Loan Fund The Foundation of the Outdoor Advertising Association of America. Incoiporoted (additional gifts) 
Mrs. Irene E. Kelly. Palm Springs. Calif, (additional)-850.00 Dr. Stanley A. Clark. South Bend (additional) 400.00 "Established in 1941. By the terms of agreement funds are to be accum­Anonymous (additional) 250.00 ulated by the Association over a period of ten years to provide at the Anonymous (additional) ..——.—. ... 200.00 University continuous instruction in the technique and problems of ad­
R. H. Shadley. Mcadville, Pa.. 200.00 vertising and special additional instruction for a numljer of upperclassmen in' the College of Commerce toward careers in the outdoor advertising 
Nieuwiand Memorial 

industry." (The University Bulletin.) Anonymous (additional) General Outdoor Advertising, Chicago—B. W. Robbins $10,000.00 Outdoor Advertising Inc., New York City—K. H. Fulton. 5,000.00 
Funds ior the Maintenance of the Grotto 

John Donnelly and Sons 2,500.00 
Anonymous Outdoor Advertising Association of America. Inc.—H. E. Fisk 2,500.00 Outdoor Advertising Foundation—yearly contribution. 2,500.00 

Endowment Fund for Books for the University library 
C. Burrell—Regional Council No. 1 1,000.00 Two Anonymous Benefactors 150 00 Foster and Kleiser. California 1,000.00 The Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman. D.D.,- LL.D_ 100.00 Hanna Outdoor Advertising of Indiana 1.000.00 Ralph J. Lathrop, New York City _ — 25.00 Hathaway Outdoor Advertising. New York. 1,000,00 Philip H. Riley, Notre Dame, Ind 25.00 LaKremer Advertising of Michigan 1,000.00 Pvt. James G. Sullivan, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco. 25.00 Pittsburgh Outdoor Advertising Co.—Henry Posner, President.^ 1,000.00 
M. Saunders, New York—Lithographers 825.00 
Mediaeval library Fund 
H. E. Fisk—O. A, Association of America, Inc.-300.00 William J. Corbett, Chicago (additional). 
2.000.00 Trebein Outdoor Advertising of Massachusetts 300.00 
SIMON AIDS FRENCH CAUSE 

A leaflet, dropped on France previous to the Allied invasion and forwarded to 
Universal Night To Be April 9 Notre Dame in January, praised the work of Yves Simon, now professor of Obsetvance to Center philosophy at the University, for his Around Local Qubs. 
part in "keeping alive the light of the  
French cause in the United States." Accord, the fifth edition of the small propaganda magazine, was compiled by the French and English and carried to its destination by memmbers of the RAF. In the magazine, an anonymous article entitled "French Thought in the United States," also lauded the work of Jacques and Raissa Maritain, Paul Vignaux, and others who have lived in exile in Amer­ica. The author pointed out that Mr. Simon has become known as the "philosopher of the Fighting French," and that he, Simon, "would not have been happy had he not done more than that which in for­mer years earned him the title, 'the phi­losopher for philosophers.'"  At the January meeting of the Board of Directors, Monday, April 9, was con­firmed as Universal Notre Dame Night in 1945. The thought was expressed that gov­ernment curbs on travel and national meetings will naturally be observed and will affect the national character of the Night. But Board members urge that each Local Alumni Club, within the lim­itations of local restrictions, meet in keeping with the 21-year-old tradition. There are several points about which • Local Club meetings can be keyed this year to the advantage of the Club organ­ization, and the Association and Univer­sity national program. 1. Club strengthening, through the  There may be other local angles. as there may be other broader angles, but in the above yon can see immediate and adequate material for a meeting. FATHER KENNA APPOiNTH) Rev. J. Howard Kenna, C.S.C, "26, was. in December appointed acting direc­tor of studies at the University. Father Kenna replaces Rev. J. Lwnard Carried, C.S.C, director of studies for 14 years, who died on Nov. 21,1944. At-the same time from the office of Rev. Hugh CDonnell, C.S.C, president, came the announcement that Rev. John J. Lane, C.S.C, '30, would be assistant director of studies, a position he will hold in addition to his duties as head of  
7,524 MIDSHIPMEN FINISH  new provisions which will be embodied in the new Constitution and By-Laws.  the Office of Veterans AfTaiis. Father Kenna was ordained at Notre  
A total of 7,524 midshipmen have been graduated as ensigns from the Naval Reserve Midshipmen School at Notre Dame since the school was opened in  2. Commemoration of the Notre Dame men in service from the Club. 3. Plans for employment aid to re­turning N.D. veterans.  Dame in 1930, and taught mathematics at Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame for three years after his ordination. From 1933 until 1936 he took advanced  
October, 1942, it was announced on Dec. 29, by Capt. J. Richard Barry, USN,  4. Club participation, through active Committees on Religion and Citizenship,  studies at Johns Hopkins University, and then returned to Notre Dame in the  
commandant, as the naval program at Notre Dame made preparations for an­other year of intensive training. The midshipmen school has graduated  in the leadership of movements within the community, particularly those in­volving what Pat Manion has suggested as the "moral approach."  fall of 1936 to become gxadaate head of the Department of Mathematics. A for­mer superior of Moreau Seminary, Father Kenna had been assistant to Fa­ 
six classes with the seventh, consisting  5. Interesting of high school students  ther Carrico from  August, 1943, until  
of  1,115  men, due to  graduate Feb. 8  in the University with the objective of  the latter's death.  
and March 8. Some 250 specialist mem­ preserving  the  national  character  of  Father Lane was ordained in 1934 and  
bers of the class will graduate in Feb­ruary. The March graduation is for the rest of the class.  Notre Dame's enrolment. The forthcom-• ing film of the campus will aid the Clubs greatly in this field.  taught at Columbia Prep School, Port­land, Ore., for several years. In 1939 he became vice-president of St. Edward's  
Prior to opening of  the midshipmen  6. Emphasis of the membership in ef­ University, Austin, Texas, where he re­ 
school, the Navy used Notre Dame  as  fecting participation in the progrress of  mained  until  1941,  at  which time  he  
an  officer  indictrination  school  and  the University during this critical per­ returned to Notre Dame. Last June he  
trained 5,079 officers between February, 1942, and October, 1942.  iod through the Third Annual Alumni Fund.  was named director of the Office of Vet­erans Affairs.  

F. Dunigan, Fort Wayne, Ind-200.00 UmTersit7 LibiaiT Holland Outdoor Advcrtisini;, Texas. 200.00 
Collection of Medical books from the persona] library of the late Dr. Cor. 
B. Leverid^e Poster Advertising, Lexington. Kentucky.-200.00 
nelius E. Geary. Sr.. Fitchburg. Mass. Stone Outdoor AdvertisinK of "West Virginia — 200.00 
E- Deutsch—Lithographers 100.00 A holograph letter of Cardinal Newman's given to Rev. J. Hugh CDon­
U. S. Print Lithograph Company 100.00 nell, G.S.C.. by Very Rev. BCsgr. John J. Hartigan, president of' Cathedral 
W. Farrell Hassler, Delaware 30.00 College. New York City. Savannah Poster Inc.—W. Price. President— 
50.00 
Total $31,025.00 

lames F. Lincoln Are Walding FonndatioB (Cleveland, Ohio) Foundations 
One hundred dollars for the establishment of a library on welding. 
E. M. Morris Foundation, (additional) 13,500.00 
J. M. Haggar Foundation (additional). 8,000.00 
Colleg* oi Engin««ring 

Radio for the Department of Electrical Engineering from Hallieraftera. 
Scholarship Funds 
Inc. by Ray Durst, Vice-President. 
The George L. O'Brien Scholarship (additional) 10,000.00 
O. J. Caron Scholarship (additional) 5,000,00 Richard C. Kerens Scholarship (additional) 
Ck>ntribution by Mrs. George Hamilton Colket, New York City 500.00 Notre Dame Club of St. Louis Scholarship 1.500.00 Notre Dame Club of Cleveland Scholarship 1,000.00 Notre Dame Oub of Detroit Scholarship (additional) 1,(100.00 
^ 
PMsidant of the thuTaxiUr 

Notre Dame Club of Detroit Scholarship (additional) 500.00 
The Notre Dame A i u m n li s 
Second Annual Alumni Fund 
(Final Report) Contributors, Nov. 16 to Dec. 31, 1944 
.\s in the Centenary Fund, the alumni contributions represent alumni gifts direct to the University, through the Alumni Association, or through the Director of Public Relations. 
Complete Total Total No. Contrib. 

Mulcahy. Maj. Gen. 
1881 to 1904 1920 
$2,257.50 94 No. in Class Total 9i Contrib. 

Francis P — 
Hale. Thomas, '81 S 5.00 Beacom.' Thoma-H., Jr. $ 100.00 Chute. Louis P.. '90 " 10.00 $ 220.00 Complete Total Total No. Contrib. 289 
.323 

Chute. Frederick B.. '92 10.00 602.00 24 
Complete Total Total No. Contrib. 
No. in Class Total % Contrib. $1,130.00 
Davis. Frank W.. 'SS 2.00 
Hudson. Arthur P.. '95 100.00 83 .290 1926 
Ko. in Class Total i^e Contrib. 
Costello. Martin J.. '97 25.00 
67 .328 
Adams. John Q. ..$ 30.00 

S 152.00 1921 Complete Total Total No. Contrib. 
Total No. Contrib. $2,156.40 88 Complete Totml 
1915 McGann, Albert $ 100.00 $5,007.50 
S3 No. in Class Total <7c Contrib. 
Sheen. Dr. Thomas N. 50.00 
' No. in Classss Total <r<- Contrib. McCarthy. S 326 .270 
 Charles H 25.00 263 .316 
$ 150.00 
Complete Total Total No. Contrib. 
Complete Total Total Na. Contrib. 
$353.00 19 
$1,029.60 33 1927 No. in Class Total ^c Contrib. 
1905 to 1909 No. in Class Total % Contrib. 
67 .270 Bednard. Thad. J. 3.00 
94 .345 Gruber, Earl F., '05 S 200.00 Braun, Herliert J. 25.00 Jamieson. William D.. "05 .._ 50.00 Corbett, Lg'William J. Jr. 100.00 Caparo, J. A., '06 5.00 1916 Doyle, Frank E. 10.00 
1922 

Cosgrove. Terence B.. '06 .... 1.000.00 Farley, Thomas F., Jr. 3.00 Funk. Arthur S.. '06 5.000.00 Carroll. Hugh E. $ 25.00 Higgins. John 'T. $ 100.00 Hatfield, Malcolm K. 5.00 Kobak. Edgar, '06 100.00 Fries. Alfred F. .. 100.00 Kearns. Raymond J. 25.00 Kenny, Thomas F. 10.00 
McCarthy. Dr. Jeremiah A. 100.00 Kreighbaum, Dr. Wallace F. 20.00 
Babbitt. Edwin D., '07 10.00 McCoy. Julius C. 25.00 McCourt. Walter P. 10.00 25.00 
Joyce. Thomas M.. '07 100.00 Mahoney. John McCullough, William H. 10.00 Odem. James F. 25.00 
O'CbnnclI, Ambrose. '07 30.00 Reichert, Romaine R. 10.00 McNeills, John F. 10.00 Turner. William W 5.00 Rice. John .M. 5.00 Smithberger, Andrew T. 5.00 
.56.495.00 Shilts. Walter L. 3.00 $ 265.00 
$ 208.00 

Complete Total Total No. Contrib. 
$ 188.00 
$32,637.50 31 Complete Total Total No. Contrib. Complete Total Total No. Contrib. Complete Total Total No. Contrib. 
92 $1,525.50 50 
No. in Claues Total ^c Contrib. $658.00 24 $1,168.30 
140 .365 No. in Class Total % Contrib. No. in Class Total <Jc Contrib. 'No. in Class Total % Contrib. 
71 .338 318 .290 
150 .333 
1910 

1917 1928 
1923 

Schmitt. William C. Sl.300.00 Cooney. Dr. John M. 25.00 Fischer. Carl T. 10.00 Carr. Louis J. 10.00 
Complete Total Total No. Contrib. -.%
Sweet. Phillip M. 10.00 Fitzgerald, William T. 10.00 Hasley, Henri' 10.00 
$2,875.00 15 Holmberg. Bruce J. — 25.00 Igoe. John D. 10.00 

No. in ClaM Total '^c Contrib. 
S 35.00 Kiley, Roger J. 100.00 Kissling, Joseph V. . 20.00 
27 .555 

Norton. John C. 10.00 Nickells, Robert L. . 3.00 
Complete Total Total No. Contrib. Wrape. Valda H. 10.00 Pluchel, William H. 10.00 
$1,655.00 45 Young. James F. 10.00 Schmitz. Eugene A. . 5.00 
No. in Class Total % Contrib. 
1912 
Totten. Charles A. _ 5.00 

108 .417 $ 173.00 Wingerter, John J. . 10.00 
Dockweiler. Henry I. 10.00 Complete Total Total No. Contrib. 
Keiser. Benedict J. 100.00 
$781.00 45 $ 83.00 
Wills. Ralph J 100.00 
1918 

No. in Class Tout % Contrib. 
Murphy. John P. 500.00 Complete Total Total No. Contrib. Phillip, Philip J. 10.00 Hyland. Richard V. 200.00 $997.00 93 
182 .248 
Phillips. Wendell T. . 100.00 Rodriguez. Dr. Rene 5.00 No. in Class Total % Contrib. Smith. Knowles B. _ 10.00 414 .225 
1924 

5 S20.00 Complete Total Total No. Contrib. $ 215.00 Slaine. Joseph B. i $ ii.OO $2,080.00 20 Complete Total Total No. Contrib. 1929 
Complete Total Total No. Contrib. No. in Class Total '^c Contrib. $1,880.00 58 
$1,643.00 27 
Markey, Thomas S. 50.00 

44 .454 No. in Class Total % Contrib. 
No. in Class Total t/r Contrib. 
Marshall, Harold J. 10.00 

208 .280 
61 .443 
$ 60.00 1913 Complete Total Total No. Contrib. 
1925 

1919 $1,547.50 77 O'Connell, John F. $_ 100.00 
Droege, John R. 25.00 No. in Class Total % Contrib. Complete Total Total No. Contrib. Foos, Pi-t. Albert E. 5.00 318 .242 
Beczkiewicz. Peter A. $ 25.00 
$550.00 Grant. Chet 30.00 Kesting. Bernard G. 25.00 Anonymous 4,000.00 
No. in Class TotalTc Contrib. McMulIen, Andrew W. 3.00 
62 .353 O'Ncil, Daniel J. 23.00 
1930 

$4,075.00 Traynor, John P. Complete Total Total No. Contrib. (Additional) 5.00 Kizer, Marshall F. $ 25.00 
1914 

$6,285.00 17 Voor, William E. 100.00 Rohr, Charles E., Jr. 25.00 Sirder. Cecil E. _S 10.00 No. in Class Total % Contrib. Rpsselit. Ph.M., Walter P. .. 1.00 Clay, Amos K. . 10.00 48 .354 S 190.00 Simpson, Harold N. 100.00 
Sprenger. Lt. Fred A.Staudt, R. Zeno. Jr. _ _  100.00  5.00  1935  Sporor, John J. .:Stubbletield, Edward  ...  M.  10.00 5.00  1943  
Totten, Raymond F.  5.00  Fergus, Paul A.  5.00  Atkins,.- Thomas L.  t  2.00  
Forbes, Robert L., Jr. ._  10.00  * 83.00  BUttner. Pv t George T. _  2.00  
Complete Total $1,623.30 No. in Clats 444  $ 261.00 Total No. Contrib. 110 Total <7o Contrib. .248  Gorgen. William P. Lee, Robert E.. Jr. Matavosky, Francis G--. Oakes, Lt. Raymond W. Pickard, Clarence J. •  10.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 5.00  Complete Total $1,716.94 No. in Claw ~ 606  Total Na. Cmtiik. 163 Total 9iiCMitrifc. .269  Ddaney, Ens. Francis J. . FislMr. Pv t Pan! A. Grady Walter T, Heltael. Ens. Donald T. _ Hickey, L t Edward J. .  10.00 lt.M 10.00 5.00 10.00  
S.nullen. William  H.  5.00  Hoey. L t  Raynham J.  —  5.00  
1931 Crowley, Jerome J., Jr „, 50.00 Deeb, Joseph F. 100.00 Futter, Clarence H. 25.00 Hannabach, Francis J. 20.00 Kassis. Thomas G. 10.00 Mclntyre. John E .. 25.00 McQuaid, James D. 10.00 Murphy. Donald F. ; 5.00 Teders, Lt. Michael V. 10.00 Tohullia. Kenneth D. 2.50 Wetii, Joseph L. 5.00 $ 262.50 Complete Total Total No. Contrib.  $ 35.00 Complete Total Total No. Contrib. $3,609.59 105 No. in Class Total </c Contrib. 432 .232 1936 Darcy, Lt. William J. S 5.00 Struck. William L. : 5.00 \Vhitaker, John F. 1.028.13 G-illagher, Hubert S. 5.00 $1,043.13 Complete Total Total No. Contrib.  1940 Bourke, Sst. Norman F. $ Cleanr, Ens. William F. ; Courtney, Lt. John W. Crane. L t Hubert T. Darrouzet, L t John.L., Jr. „ Golden, L t P. Eugene (deceased) Julian, L t John D. Kamm, Cpl. Wilber A. HcCanna, L t Charles B. — McCarthy. Lt. Charles M. — McHorrow. Capt George J. Fieri, Capt Francis W. (deceased) Pinelli. L t Roy W.  5.00 50.00 10.00 20.00 10.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 25.00 10.00 5.00 5.00  Kilbride, Ens. John L. — 20.00 Linek. Leo 1^ .: S.00 MUfett Ens. Robert M. ­10.00 5.00 Rice. Pf c Willis H. 10.00 Roescb, Joseph A. ' IO.M 10.00 Topta. Sgt. Richard D. — 5.00 Walsh. L t William F. — 5.00 10.00 10.00 $ 154.00 Complete Total Total N*. Caatiik $2,112.85 214 Na.faiClaaa Total 9S> Coatrik. 323 .662  
$1,708.40 No. in Class  114 Total </c Contrib.  $2,187.13 No. in Class  100 Total <^ Contrib.  Sotak, Capt Joseph E. Walsh. L t Myles J.  :  S.00 25.00  1944  
427 1932 Brennan, Rev. VincentDewey. Robert E. Giess, Lewis K. Howe. Paul A. Kilburger. Harry F.   P.  .267  25.00 10.00 6.00 10.00 25.00  443 .226 1937 Delaney, Richard H English. Rev. Joseph R., M.M. Hennessy, Donald A. Judae. Adolph J Marty. Bernard A  5.09 5.00 5.00 20.00 25.00  Wilson, George P. 7.50 Wolir. Capt J. Frederick. Jr. 20.00 Wurtzebach. L t Edward P. 20.00 $ 255.50 Complete Total Total Now CmlTlk. $3,243.10 . 238 No. in Claaa ToUl % Caatiik. 695 .342  Bitter, Vincent C A.. Jr. . Bohicelli, Ens. Orlando A. . Christman, John F. —: . Hassett Emmett A.. Jr. _ Kamm. Sgt. Gerald A. Mammina, Benjamin J.-:—-Schirack. Frank J. -Sehroeder. Pv t WilUam F. Welch. Gerald J. _  2S.0O~ 10.00 10.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 5.00. 25.00 . 5.00  
Linn. Gerald B. 5.00 Murray. Francis L. 10.00 Power. Lt. James W 10.00 Simmons, James \V.. Jr. ., 10.00 S 111.00 Complete Total Total No. Contrib. $1,662.00 114  Owens, Dr. Graham J. 5.00 Wolter. Earl F 5.00 $ 70.00 Complete Total Total No. Contrib. $1,170.50 105 No. in Class Total % Contrib. 472  1941 Blong. Victor J. Buenger, Pv t William E. _ Bums. Pv t Robert E., Jr. Del Zoppo, L t Albert J. Dora, Capt Richard J.  10.00 25.00, 4.35" 5.00 10.00  Complete Total $1,000.53 Na.ia Class 253 1945  t ST.OO Total NouCaalrib:' , 133 . , Total % Coatrik. •.52«"-": '  
No. in Class 532  Total % Contrib. .212  1938  Grady, L t Thomas F. Greene. George W., Jr. Hawes. L t William R  10.00 10.00 10.00  Vatter. Joseph R. Campleie Total $68.50  Total No. Coatrik. •S  
1933 Boehm, Paul F. Case, William E Danehy, Dr. JamesGcadel, Urban H. Anonymous   P.  10.00 2.00 5.00 10.00 100.00  Buckley, John L _ Hackman, Major Robert H. Husung, Martin J Kane. William J. Kaveny, William F. Laure, George R. Ludwig. Joseph J. .  25.00 15.00 25.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 5.00  Hopkins. L t Francis J. Kerrigan, L t J. Richard McCanna. Pfc. Philip R. ._ O'Dea, L t John F. Perrine. L t Alfred J. Pinelli. L t Ralph R. Sitt; Cpl. Harold A Waldron. John F.  25.00 10.00 25.00 25.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 5.00  1946 Bevington, Ens. Richard L. $Donath. Ernest :—: _Fitzharris, Qpl. William E. ­Whitaker. Charles C.  2.00  -25.00 . 5.00  965.62  
Hawkes, Lt. Cmdr.  Mackin, Henry J., Jr.  5.00  
William M. Killeen, Edward B. Kreus. Peter P. Lee, Maurice .WShea. James F.   _.  10.00 5.00 20.00 10.00 10.00  McCabe. Capt. Edward S. Monacelli. Walter J Mulhall, Pfc. William J. . O'Leary, John A. Sherrod, Dr. Vincent A. Sulewski. Anthony C.  15.00 50.00 5.00 .3.00 10.00 10.00  Complete Total $8,212.35 No. in Claaa 6E8  $ 194.35 Total Na-Cmtrik. • 239 Talal % Cntiik. .347  Complete Total $1,009.62 Subscribers  $ 997.62 Total NOL Coatrik.  
$ 182.00  AIu.  Sg t  Joseph  G. —:  _$  2.00  
Complete Total $1,250.50 No. in Class  Total No. Contrib. 106 Total f/c Contrib.  Complete Total $1,751.38  $ 182.00 Total No. Contrib. 166  1942 Brutz, L t  James  C  10.00  Clemens. L t James A.. Jr. Enrigfat. Rev. Joseph A. _ _Lloyd. Francis W. . 10.00  ,10.00;  75.00  
422  .251  No. in Class  Total % Contrib.  Burke, Lt. Robert K  10.00  $ 97.00  
1934  565  .294  Costa, Lt. John E. Fitzhcrris, Lt. Thomas J., Jr.  25.00 5.00  Complete Total $1,471.51  Total No. Coatrik. ­46 '-'"':  
Bosco, James A. Curtin, Cpl. Andries A. .... Maloney, George P. . Jr. _.. Robison. F. Wells  5.00 $ 3.00 25.00 5.00  1939 Bastian, Lt. George L.. Jr.Carpenter. Lt. William A.Harris, Lt. David W.  3.00  15.00  10.00  Guillaume. Lt. John F. Haley. Douglas F. House. Ens. William R. . Rivait. John J. Scanlan, Cpl. William E.  5.00 1.00 20.00 10.00 8.75  RE-CAPilULATlbN Last previons total -» 92.3ia2I. This period total — _ 19,087.35'i  
Herrick. William R.  10.00  
S  saoo  Haurello,  Marion  J  2.00  $ 94.75  Grand ToUl  -$111.4«5.56  
Complete Total  Total No. Contrib.  Piedmont, William L.  5.00  Complete Total  Total N*. CMilrik.  Total in Classes '.  10,6*7'  
$4,034.69  107  Ryan,  John  E.  10.00  $2,006.45  222  Total No.  Contribotiaas  — 3.»s:  
No. in Class  Total % Contrib.  Sabo, Carl L  3.00  No.inCIas8  Tola! <7o Caatiik.  Per Cent of Contaribntors  ­31.06  
426  .251  Shannon.  Michael  F.. Jr.  10.00  512  .433  Average  Contribution  $  33.63  


ADDITIONAL SERVICE MEN* 
SPECIAL NOTE: Space restrictions make it nccessao' to print in this issue only 
a portion of the names of "additional 
Atwell, Everett D.. ex. M". Yeoman, 2yc, Navy 728, Bo.\ 5, cyo FPO. N. Y. C. Aylwanl, Edward F., e-t. '48. AjS. Woodward Barracks, 'V-12 Unit, Parkville, Mo. Armstronc. JcMe J-. e.\. '46, Midshipmen School. Tower Hall. Chicago. III. ArmstronE. Richard W., ex. 'AS. S 2/c. IMA. 12a Bks. 6. NATT Cen., Jacksonville. Fla. Aqaiiino, William R., ex. '47, AjS, 15GG. Bks. I32-L, USNTC. Bainbridge, Md. 
Archibald, William M., e-x. '46. Midshipmen School, Cornell University, 125 McFodden. Ithaca. K. Y. 
Ardito, David L., e,\. '46, S 1/c, Service School Command N.T.C., Great Lakes, III. Bks. 403 UP, Sec. G 9-1. 
Buzzard, WiUiam C , ex. '47. Pfc , USMC, Co. 
D. Pit. 1, O. C. Bn.. Schools Rem.. T.C.. F.M.F.. Camp Xx!Jeune. N. C. 
Bjers, Richard N., ex. '47, USMC, Co. D. 1st Pl^, O.C. Bn.. Schools Reirt.. F.M.F.. Camp LeJeune. N. C. 
Byrne. William D., e.\. '46. USNR, Medical Schocl. Georgetown, Washington, D. C. Bzdula, Alfred J., ex. '47. S 1/c, Co. 1738. USNTS. Great Lake.s III. 
Butler. Robert E., ex. '48. S 2/c, Sec. 2 10-1. Bks. 503LP. Serxice Schools Command. U.S.N.T.C.. Great Lakes. III. 
Blinn. John W., ex. '48. Sgt- USMCR. c/o FPO. San Francisco, Calif. Bobek. Francis R.. ex. '48. PhM 2/c. National Naval Medical Center. Bethesda. Md. Borghi, Louis J., e-x. '45. Pn. , Co. C. 1st Bn., LR.T.C.. Camp Wheeler. Ga. 
Bourcier. George W.. ex. '45. Pvt.. He-idquarters Army, 3rd Platoon. 355 Inf. Regt., Camp Burner. N. C. 
Br«Kdon, Russell Spencer, ex. *47. AM 3/c. c/o FPO. San Francisco. Calif. Breest. Norman. e.-i. '47. Pfc . USMC. Camp LeJeune. N. C. Brennan, Joseph A., ex. '47. Pfc. USMC. O. C. Bn., Quantico, Va. Brennan, Paul E., ex. '47, Ens., X.T.C.. Jliami. Fla. Brennan, Thomas J., '40. Pvt-. 3505 AAF B3.=e Unit, Section 1-802. Scott Field. III. 
Brescia, Nicholas J., ex. '47, S 1/c. U. S. Naval Hospital Corps School, Co. lO-l. San Diego 34. Calif. 
Brickson, Francis G., e.x. '47. Co. 44-535. USNTC. San Diego 33. Calif. 

Brierly. John »L. ex. '47. Pfc. USMC. O.C.Bn., Co. D. 1st PIU School's Regt.. F.M.F., Train­ing Command, Camp, LeJeune, N. C. 
Bedford. Richard J., ex. '47. S 2/c, S.S. F8-1. Bks. 406. L.S., USNTS. Great Lakes, III. 

Beilstein. Howard P., e-i. '47. A/S. Blacker House. Institute of Technology. Pasadena 4. Calif. Belford. Robert J., e-l. '48. S 2/c. A.M.M. 14a 45. 
Bks. 42, N.A.T.T.C.. Norman', Oklii. Bnelow, Arthur F., e.x. '48. Co. 30. Sec 1, N.T.S.. Radio, Evanston, III. Bnrick. Michael P.. '33. Lt.. Purchasing & Con­tracting. Camp Walters. Tex. 
Burke. Andrew J.. Jr., ex. '45. Midshipman, 6250 Bancroft Hall, U. S. Naval Academy. Annapolis, Md. 
Bush. Ted J., ex. '48. Midshipman. 414 Furnald Hall. U.S.N.R.M.S.. New York 27. Butler, Edward J.. Jr., '34. Lt , c/o FPO. N.Y.C. 
Butler, Herbert B., e-t '47, Pfc, USMC. Co. D. 1st Pit, Schools Regt, T.C., F.M.F.. Camp LeJeune, N. C. 
Brawnson, Clarence E.. ex. '47. 23.Bodine House, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 4. Bmchman, Royal R,, ex. '48. Pfc . USMC. Co. 
 scr\-ice men" on file in the Alomni Office. 
B.. Pit 1, Schools Regt, T.C., F.M.F.. O. C. Bn., Camp LeJeune, N. C. 
Brunelli. John A., e-x. '47. A/S, R.O.T.C., North­western University, V-12, Bks. 20, Evanston, 111. 
Ballew, Theodore C . ex. '48. S 2/c. Sec. T8-5. Bks. 606 L.P., S.S. Com., Great Ijlkes. III. 
Barbieri, Joseph, Jr., ex. '47, 3706 AAF Base Unit. B.T.C., Section P, Sheppard Field, Te.x. Barlow. Daniel P., ex. '47, S 1/c, Co. 4-H-45. 
USNTS. Wright Junior College. Chicago. 
A/3 Thomas J. Draper, ex. '48 (His death was reported in December "Alumnus") 
Barsalou, Francis W.. e.\. '47, Pfc , USMC, Scks. Reg. T.C.. F.M.F., O.C. Bn.. Camp LeJeune. North Carolina. 
Batt, Richard A., '41, Engineer. Merchant Marine, c/o Postmaster, N.Y.C. Baumsarten. Albert III. ex. '46. Midshipman. Abbott Hall. Chicago. Bcal, William H., ex. '45. SK 3/c. c/o FPO. 
N. Y. C. Becker,, Richard O., ex. '47. Pfc, USMC, Sea 
School, 2 M.C.B.. San Diego. 41, Calif. Brin. Phillip L., ex. '48. PhM 1/c, c/o FPO, 
N. Y. C. Brisbois, Harold J., ex. '47, Pv t Co. D, 90th Inf. Tng. Bn.. Camp Roberts, Calif. 
Brobst. Robert A., ex. '47. Pfc . USMC. Co. B. Pit 1. Schools Regt T.C.. F.M.F.. O.C.Bn.. Camp LeJeune, N C. 
Broderick, William R., ex. "48. Pvt Bat D, 55th Bn., 12th Regt, Camp Roberts, Calif. Brogan, John H., Jr.. ex. '47. A/S. Co. 44-507. USNTC. San Diego 33. Calif. Brown, Harry E.. ex. '48. Pfc . USMC. Co. E, 
O. C. Bn.. Schools Regt.. T.C.. F.M.F., Camp LeJeune. N. C. 
Carr, Lawrence E., Jr., e-x. '45. USMC, Ca D. 1st Pit. O. C. Bn., Schools Regt., T.C.. F.M. P., Camp LeJeune, N. C. 
Carroll, Thomas E., ex. '48, S 1/c. San Pedro, Calif. Carson, John P., Jr., ex. '46. Midshipman. 944 
B. SH. New York 27. Carter, Mitchell. Jr.. ex. "47. Pfc . USMC. Co. 
B. 1st Pit. O. C. Bn.. Schools Regt., T.C, F.M.F.. Camp LeJeune. N. C. 
Casey, Frauds M., ex. '47, A.S.. V-12, No. 15 East Hall. William's College. Williamstown. Mass. 
Caasidy. Jamel E., Jr., ex. '46, A/S V-12 Unit School of Medicine. Loyola University. Chicago. Cattle, Joseph F., '41. Ens., 62 Patton Hall, Sec 
156, N.T.S., Princeton. N. J. Cawley, John L., ex. '46. Midshipmen School, Section 7. Notre Dame. Ind. Canter. John, ex. '47. A/S. V-12, Co. D, Univer­sity of Rochester, Rochester 3, N. Y. Capalko. Ralph H., ex. '48. Cadet Midshipman. H.MR., San Mateo, Calif. Cappncci. Louis W., ex. '47, Prt.. 3704 AAF, 

B.U., Sec Q.. (397), 783-D, Kessler Field, Miss. Garden. Lawrence M., ex. '45. S 2/c Carey. Edward Daniel, ex. '48. S 1/c. (R.T.). 
College of the Ozarks. Clarkesvillc. Ark. Carlin. Thomas P., ex. '46, 815 Johnson Hall. 

Columbia Midshipmen School. New York 27. Carper. Gene E.. ex. '48. c/o FPO, N. Y. C. Carr. Irvine J.. Jr., ex. '47, Midshipman. Abbott 
Hall. Chicago. III. Corcoran, James C. Sampson, N. Y. Corey. KenidaU M.. ex. '47. USMC. Sea School 
6. R.D.M.C.B.. San Diego, Calif. 
CortriKht. • David P., ex. "47. Pvt. USMC. 9th Adv. Class Combat Intelligence School, Schools Regt Training Command. F.M.F., Camp LeJeune, N. C. 
Costello. James R.. Jr., ex. '47, A/S. Co. 805-44, Camp Waldron, USNTC, Farragut Idaho. Cotter. WUIiam N., ex. '46, S 1/c, Co. 22. 125­Navy Pier. Chicago. III. Cotton. Wendell P.. ex. '47. NATTC. Bks. 827. Norman, Okla. 
Ceisel. Ernest J., ex. '47. Pfc . USMC. Co. B. Pit 2. Schools Regt. T.C. F.M.F., O. C. Bn.. Camp LeJeune. N. C. 

Chamberlin. Robert B., ex. '48. USNR, c/o Post­master. N. Y. C. Chauvin, Robert E.. ex. '46. Pre-midshipman. Notre Dame. Ind. Chnmbley. Clyde M., ex. '47, V-12. Co. C, Crosby Hall, University of Rochester. N. Y. 
Church. James W.. e.x. '47. A/S. Room 504-B. Grad House. V-12. M.I.T.. Cambridge. Mass. Cicirelli, Victor Georse, ex. '47, U. S. Navy 
Medical Corps. Clark. John T.. ex. '46. Ens.. Harvard, Cam­bridge, Mass. Clark. John T., ex. '47, Pvt, Co. B. 2nd Bn.. A.S.F.T.C., Fort Belvoir, Va. Cleary. Robert V., ex. '47. Tn. Air Corps, Sec. 
L. Bks. 833, Scott Field, 111. 
CoaUey, William D.. ex. '47. S 2/c. Sec Q-10-1, Bks. 506, L.P., Service School Command. Great Lakes, III. 

Coleman. Thomas J., ex. '47. A/S. V-12 Unit. 31 Bodine House. University of Pennsylvania. Philadelphia. 4, Pa. 
Coleman. William H.. ex. '40. Lt (jg). Public Relations. Naval Surpluses & Salvage, N.Y.C. 
Crown, Charles A., ex. '45, Medical Student (V-12,) Illinois Medical School, 1853 W. Polk Street. Chicago. 
Cullen, John M.. ex. '47. Midshipmen School. 927 Johnson Hall, New York 27. 
Cunniniham, Jerome P.. ex. '46. Pfc . USMC, Co. A, 2nd Pit, Schools Regt. T.C, F.M.F., Camp LeJeune. N. C. 
Cunnintham. Richard J., ex. '47, Pvt. Co. A. 110th Trng. Bn., -7th Regt., Camp J. T. Robinson, Ark. 
Cnrnn, James C, '34, Ens.. Room 556, N.T.S. (1). Hollywood Beach Hotel. Hollywood. Fin. Craite. John R.. ex. '47. S 2/c. Cc 1809. USNTS. 
Great Lakes. III. Crane. Hubert T.. '40. 1st Lt . USMC. c/o FPO. San Francisco. Crawmer. William M.. ex. '47. Pfc . USMC. 
Crrawick, Kenneth W., Pfc.. USMC. Co. D. 2nd Pit, O.C, Schools Regt., F.M.F., T.C. Camp LeJeune, N. C 
Cronan, Francis M., ex. '46, S 1/c, Unit X. Bks. 63-3. USNTS, No. B., Norfolk, Va. Crotty, Irwin P., "36, Ens., cjo FPO, San Fran­cisco, Calif. Crotty, William J., Jr.. e.'c. '46. U.S.N.R.M.S.. Abbott Hall, Chicago. Connors, Francis E., e-i. '47. USNR. c/o FPO. 
N. Y. C. Coombs, Manvel L.. ex. *47, S 2/c. Cooper. James W.. e.\. '47, Pf c USMC. Sea 
School. M.C.B.. San Diego 41, Calif. 
Dailey. William E., ex. '46. S 2/c, Sec. F-10-2 Bks. 403, L.S.. S.S.Coni.. N.T.C.. Great Lakes. III. 
Dever. Alfred J.. M. '48. F Ijc. c/o FPO. N. Y. C. Dewey, Elliot A., ex. M7, Midshipman. Room 3342, Bancroft Hall, Annapolis. Md. 
DeWolf. Roger T., e.x. '47. Pfc.. USMC. Co. B. 2nd Pit., Schools Rest.. T.C.. F.M.F., O. C. Bn.. Camp LeJe'jne, N. C. 
Dickinson, Karl E., e.x. '46. USMC. V.M.F. 462. 
M.B.P.A.C. 46. M.C.A.S.. El Tora. Santa Ana. Calif. Delahant!»-. Thomas L., e.\-. '43. S 2/c. c/o FPO. San Francisco. DeNeve, Frank, ex. '47. S 2/c. Bks. 6. R-16-C. NATTC. Memphis 15. Tenn. Denney. John P.. Jr., '42. Lt.. USNR. Killed in service. DenninKton. Hubert N., USNR, ex. '47, Div. 49. University of Wisconsin. Madison 8. Wis. Oervie. Joseph H., ex. '47. USNRMS. Sec. 10. Notre Dame. Ind. 
Dnmont. Frank W., ex. "47, S 2/c. Sec. QlO-1, Bks. 506 L.P.. Service School Command. Great Lakes. 111. 
Dumser, James R., e.x. '48. Pfc. USMC, Sea School 2, MCB. RD.. San Diego. Calif. Duncan,' William S., ex. '48, S 3/c, Bks. 503. 
U. S.. 58-1. Great Lakes, III. Dunn, Kieran, Jr., '35, T/Sgt.. APO, c/o Post­master, N. Y. C. Durkin. Patrick J., ex. '47, Pvt.. Troop M. 1st Regt.. Bks. 224. Fort Riley. Kan. Dwycr, Edwin C, e.\-. '47. Pfc, USMC. Sea School 2. San Diego. Calif. 
Dwyer, Joseph M., e.\. '.45. Pfc. USMC. Co. D. 3nd Pit.. O. C. Bn.. Schools Regt. T.C.. F.M.F.. Camp LcJeune, N. C. 
Doodj-, Arthur J., ex. '46. HA 2/c U.S.N. Hos­pital. Bks. 3/. San Leandro. Calif. Doran, Robert J., '41, 2nd Lt.. c/o Postmaster. 
N. Y. C. Dorosh, Theodore J., e.\. '48. Pvt. Co. D. 203rd 
Bn.. 63 Reg:.. Camp Blanding. Fla. Dotson, Willi:im A., ex. '47, USNR. Dougherty, James F., ex. '46, A/S, Medical Stu­
dent. Box 80. Univ. of Rochester. Rochester. 
N. Y. Dowling, William F., ex. '47, A.S., (V-12), S t Louis University, Mo. 
Doyle. James S., ex. '48. Midshipman. MMR. New York State Maritime Academy.' Fort Schuyler, Bronx 61, N. Y. 
Dragonn. Frank A., e.\. '47. Chief Yeoman, c/o FPO. San Francisco. 
Dr}-malski. Raymond P., '29. Lt. (jg). Office of Strategic Service. P. O. Box 2601. Washing­ton. D. C. 
Duccy, Vincent P., '28. Lt . FPO. 610 S. Canal. 
Chicago. 7. III. DuSield. Thomas A., ex. '47. Ens.. Newport, R. I. Duffy, Donald C , e.x. '48, USNR. Duffy, Kenneth H.. ex. '40. Lt . APO. San 
Francisco. Digan, Richard J., ex. '46. Midshipman. 316 
Johnson Hall. New York 27. DiGirolamo. Livio H., ex. '46. S 2/c. Dillon, Robert W.. ex. '47. Pfc. USMC. Co. B. 
11th Bn.. 4th Inf.. Trg.. Reg.. T;C.F.M.F.. Camp Pendleton. Oceanside. Calif. Dobraska, Harry M.. Jr., ex. '47, Pfc. USMC. Co. A. 2nd Pit.. O. C. Bn.. Camp LeJcune. 
N. C. 
Dobson, Henry H., ex. '47. Pfc, USMC. Pit 2. Schools Regt.. T.C.. F.M.F.. C=mp LeJeune, 
N. C. Dold. William F., ex. '45, Sgt.. Killed in service. Don, Wilbur F., '44, USNR. Oomenicali, Reynold J., ex. '4a. Pvt. Co. F. 
213 Bn.. 66 Ragt, T.R.T.C., Camp Blanding, Fla. Donahue, Joseph F., e-x. '44, S/Sgt, APO, c/o Postmaster, N. Y. C. Donatli, Ernest J., ex. '47, U. S. Merchant Marine Academy, Sec. P-033-06, Kings Point. 
N. Y. Oonlan, Walter R., ex. '47, Pfc, USMC, E. Ca, 
O. C. Bn.. Schools Regt.. T.C.. F.M.F., Camp 
LeJeune, N. C. Donoghue, F. E., '36. L t 
Sgt. William F. DoM, ex. MS (His death was reported in December "Alumnus") 
Enncssy. Pierce R., Jr., ex. '47. Naval Ordnance, Air Corps. AOM-14-A-4o. Bks. 72. NATTC. Norman. Okla. 
Ennis, West^y D., ex. '47, Midshipman. 5345 Ban­croft Hall, Annapolis. Md. 
Erdman. Harold H., e-x. '47, A/S, House 20. V-12. USNROTC. Northwestern University, Evanston, 111. 
Erickson, William M., ex. *47. Midshipman. 317 McPaddin Hall. Cornell University, Ithaca, 
N. Y. Erker, Eugene A., Jr., ex. 'ii, S 2/c. c/o FPO. San Francisco. Earley, J. F., ex. '47, Midshipman. 2209 Ban­croft Hall. Annapolis. Md. Echenrode, John R., ex. '46, S 1/c. c/o FPO. San Francisco. Edwards, Donald T., e.x. '46. Midshipman. Tower H=ll. Chicago. Eimcrs, Edward D., ex. '47. Midshipman, Tower Hall. Chicago 11. 
Eiscnman, Leonard J., ex. '47, A/S. N.S.N.. Ward A-7. U.S.N. Hospital. Fnrragut. Idaho. 
Fanning, Robert T., ex. '45, S 2/c, c/o FPO, 
N. Y. C. Farley, Wal'er S., Jr., e.x. '47. V-12, Bldg. 20, Northwestern University, Evanston, III. Farrcll, Russell J.. e.\. '46. S 1/c. Co. 1999, USNTS. Great Lakes. III. Fay, William M., '36. L t (jg). U. S. Navy Hos­pital, New Orleans. La. Feichter, Cornelius S., ex. *47, Midshipmen School. 404-B. Johnson Hall. New York 27. 
Fennelly, James W.. e-x. '46, Pfc , USMC. 2nd Pit. Co. B. 3rd Training Bn.. Tent City. F.M.F.. Camp LeJeune. N. C. 
Fenaian. Neman SL, ex. '48, U. S. Naval HospiUI Staff, Brooklyn, N. Y. FIscfa. Micklel H.. e.x. '43, 2nd Lt., Eighth Air Force, England. Fisher, Inins, ex. '47, A/S, University of Mich­
igan. 304 Michigan House, Ann Arbor.' Mich. Fuher. Pm»I A.. '43. Pvt. c/o Postmaster. N.Y.C. Flanacni. JaiMs L.. ex. '48, S 2/c. Norman. 
Okla. Fl«^ Thaaas C ex. '48, S 2/c R 7-D Bks. 12, NATTC, Memphis 15, Tenn. Fbad. Paal J., '40, Pvt„ Co. R 62nd ASFTC. Camp Barkeley. Tex. Flyan. Frederick E.. '42. Sub-Lt, Naval In­structor, London, Ontario. Flynn. John M.. Jr.. ex. '47. S 2/c. Sec. 29-3. Bka. 508 LP, USNTS, Great Lakes. III. 
Femat, Frecaian H., ex. '47. Pfc, USMC, Co. D, 2nd Pit. O. C. Bn., Schools Regt, T.C.. F.M.F., Camp LeJeune, N. C. 
Fax. PUUp IL. ex. '47, A/S, Nary Medical Stu­dent, 2519 Ridge Road. Berkeley 4, Calif. Fnaer. Hector •., ex. '48, S 1/c. Bks. 18. Sec. A. Receiving Station. Norfolk 11, Va. French. Rshert D.. ex. '30. CpU c/o Postmaster. 
N. Y. C. 
Frericks, Edward J.. e.x. '47, Pvt, Co. B, 130th Bn., 81st Regt. Camp J. T. Robinson. Ark. 
Glaahsr. Isaac W.. e.x. '47. S 1/c. Fre-Kadio School. Hugh Manley School. '2935 W. Polk.. Chicago 12. 
GleeSBin. Francis E.. ex. '47. Cadet Midshipman. Merchant Marines,' £-3-6, Waterman Hall. U.SJ(.H.C.KS.. San Mateo, Calif. 
Glidu James E.. Jr.. ex. '47, Pvt. USMC, 2nd Bn., A.D.. M.B., Parris Island. S. C. Gladawatz. Kafecrt A., ex. '46. Battery B, 56th A.A., R.T.C.. Fort Bliss, Tex. 
G«ialka. Jaaeph J., ex. '47. A.S. V-12. Medical Student. Loyola School of Medicine, 706 S. Wolcott Avenue. Chicago. 
Garaan. Joseph G.. ex. '47, V-12. 201 Smith H II. University of Virginia. Charlottesville, Va. GMS. Jahn R., ex. '47, USMC, Co. D. 2nd Pit. 
O. C. Bn., SchooFs Regt, T.C., FJI.F., Camp LeJeune. N. C. Gattlich, Richard M*. ex. '47. Midshipni.'n. Tower 
Hall. Chicago 11. Gattwald, DenaU. Jr.. ex. '47. Pfc . USMC. Co. 
E. O. C. Bn.. Schools Rjgt.. T.C.. F.M.F.. 
Camp LeJeune. N. C. Gaalet, JaaMS L.. ex. '46. S 1/c, Q.M.. Box 7. 
U. S. N. Submarine Base, New London. Conn. Grady. John G.. ex. '48. S 1/c. Crew 3810, USNATB, Solomons Branch, Washington, D. C. Grafe. William B., Jr., '44, Ens.. Twelfth Naval District, San Francisco. Grant. JaoMS P., ex. '46. 1st Lt.. Killed in Service. Graaten, Williaai F.. ex. '48. S 2/c. A.O.M., 12 A. Bks. 68. Norman. Okla. Gravett. Albert K.. ex. '48, Pfc. USMC. c/o FPO, San Francisco. " " Greene. Daniel W.. ex. '47. Ens.. B.O.Q.. S.P. 64. Norfolk, Va. Greene, Harry H.. ex. '46. Ens.. USNR. 
GriaiBwr, Ray E., Jr., ex. '46, Midshipman, 415 McFaddin Hall, Cornell University. Ithaca, 
N. Y. Hannizan. Jaseph P.. ex. '48, Yeoman 2/c, c/o FPO. N. Y. C. Harris. John W.. ex. '48. USNR. LST Crew 4731. A.T.B.. Camp Bradford. Norfolk 11. Va. Hart. Rafcert R.. ex. '47. A/S. Ward 85. U.S.­N.H.. Great Lakes, III. Heam. WillUm J., ex. '43, Ens.. USNAS, Corpus Cbristi, Tex._ 
HemaMlgam, Norman P., ex. *47. Midshipman, Morris Hall. C-37, Soldiers Field Station. Boston 63, Mass. 
Hcndcl. Jcraaw P.. ex. '46. Midshipman. Billet 710-A. Johnson Hall. New York City 27. 
Hencault, Bobtrt E., e.v. '48. S 2;c. Newport. R. I. Hencveld, Lowell D, ex. '47. USMC. Pfc.. S=.i School 2. San Diego. Calif. HerinKer, Charles J., ex. *46. Lt.. c/o Postmaster. 
N. Y. C. Hickey, Frederick A., ex. '47. Co. 282. D.19.L. 
Samiison. X. Y. Hicks, Waller F., Jr., ex. "48. S Zjc. Bks. 503. 
U. S. S-8-1. Scr\ice School Command. Great Lakes. 111. Hiltebrand, Lcland E., ex. '47. Pfc. USMC, Co. 1. O.C.S.. 59th Class, Marine Bks.. Quantico. Va. 
Hipp, Charles J., ex. *47. Midshipman. Morris Hall C-37-SoIdier*s Field Station. Boston 63. Mass. 
HoKan, Leon C, ex. *47. S 2/c Quartermaster Service School Command. Sec Q 10-1, Bks. 506, L.P.. Service School Command. Great Lakes, 111. 
Hopper, Donald A., e-\. '46, Midshipman, 434 Furnald Hall. Columbia University. N. Y. C. 
Hormberfr, Robert M., ex. '47, S 2/c Co. 15-1, Unit 3. U. S. N. Hospital Con's Schools, San Dieco 34, Calif. 
Huber, Mar>-in J., ex. '47, Ens., Harvard Uni­versity, Cambridge, Mass. Hughes, Robert D., ex. '4/. AlS. V-12. Co. E, Crosby 323. University of Rochester. Rochester 
3. N. y. 
Hughes, Robert F.. e.\. '47, Pfc, USMC, Co. D. 3rd Pit.. O.C. Bn.. Schools Regt.. T.C.. F.M.F.. Camp LeJeune. N. C. 
Hughes, Robert W., '29, Tech. Sgt.. c/o Post-m.-ister. N. Y. C. 

Hull, George Z., c\. '46. Midshipman. Morris C 39, Soldiers Field Station. Boston 63. Mass. Hushek, Francis T.. ex. '47. S 1/c. NTC. Great 
Lakes. Illinois. 

Jacobsv John J., ex. '47. S 'ijc Sec T 10-3. Bks. Jacobs, Philip A., '35, Lt-. c/o FPO. San Fran­cisco. 
Jamrog, Jerome J., ex. '48. Yeoman 2/c, Yeo. Set. Class 2C-45. Sec 145. Bks. 519-L. OSNTC. Bainbridge. Mass. 
Johnson, Clinton E., e.\. '47. A/S. V-12. Uni­versity of Pennsylvania. Morris House 25. Philadelphia. Pa. 
Johnson, Harr>' J., Jr., ex. '47, A/S. Navy V-12. Room 206. Long Hall. University of Vinjinia. Charlottesville. Va. 
Johnson, Walter H., Jr., '39, Lt., USMC. 12th Basic Class. Avia. Ground Off. School. Quantico. Va. 
Johnson, WiKon W., ex. '47, USMC. Co. D, Pit. 
3. OCS Bn., School Regt.. T.C., F.M.F.. Camp LeJeune. N. C. 

Kayser, Richard F., e-x. '46. S 1/c. (RT). Class 
17. Co. A. Room 415. Naval Training School. Del Monte. Calif. Kcase}-, Grover E.. e-x. '46. S 1/c. c'o FPO. San Francisco. Keegan. Thomas C , Jr., e.x. '42. T/5, c/o Post­master, N. Y. G. 
Keep. Norman N., e.x. '47. Medical Student. Northwestern University, c/o NEN. BDX 303. 710 Michigan Ave.. Chicago. 111. 
Kelly. Thomas E., e.x. '4S, S 2/c NATTC, USNR. Memphis 15. Tenn. Kelly, Thomas F., e-x. '47, S 2/c, Quartermaster 
School. Great Lakes. 111. Kell}-, William F., e-x. '48. c/o FPO. N. Y. C. Kemptsr. Rudolph H.. Jr., e.x. '47, Midshipman. 
Tower Hall. Room 402. Chicago. Kendell, Paul Prophet, e-x. '47, Pfc, USMC. Co. 
A. 3rd Pit.. Schools Regt.. T.C.. F.M.F.. Camp LeJeune. N, C. Kennedy. Daniel J., e-x. '47. A/S. V-12. Navy Dental Corps. Univer.=ity of Detroit Detroit Mich. Kennedy, Robert A., ex. '47. S 2/c. Hugh Manley School (Pre-radio). 2935 West Polk St.. Chicago. 
Kenne.v, RabertI E., ex. '47, A.Q.M. 2/c NATTC, Class B. A.O.M.. G-11. Jacksonville. Fla. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Kenny. James B., '33. Lt. (jg). 
Kerper, Albert J., e.x. '47. A/S. V-12, Co. F. Burton Hall, Room 13. University of Rochester, Rochester 3. N. Y. 
Kerrigan. John F., ex. '47, S 1/c, Naval Train­ing School, CARM), Ward Island, Corpus Christi, Te-x. 
Khourj-, Edward A., e-x. '47, S 2/c SlO-1 Bks., 
503 L.P.. S.S.C.. USNTC. Great Lakes. 111. Kiefer, Ralph W., e-x. '48, S 2/c. Bar. 30. Pit. 2. 
N.T.S. Radio, Evanston. 111. 
King. James F., e.x. '45, Pfc , USMC, Co. D, 3rd PH., O. C. Bn., Schools Regt, T.C.. F.M.F,. Camp LeJeune. N. C. 
King, Keith V., ex. '47, School of Medicine, 614 
S. Ashland Blvd., Chicago. Kiplinger, Gerald F., ex. *48. Ens.. Amphibious Base, Camp Bradford. Norfolk, Va. 
Kiraly, Charles, Jr., ex. '47, A/S, Navy V-12, 306 Long Hall, University of Virginia, Char­lottesville, Va. 
Kirk, Henry M., e-x. '46. S 2/c U.S. Naval Hospital Cori>s School. Co. 17-2. San Diego, Calif. 
Klyn, Gerard C , e-x. '43, Ens., c/o FPO, San 
Francisco. Knccland. Francis P., ex. '47, S 2/c, 322-28-42. N.T.C.. Sampson. N. Y. Kneller. Richard E., ex. '47, F 2/c, E-10-3, Bks. 402, U.S.S.C.C.. Great Lakes. 111. Knight. James M., e.x. '47, SM 3/c Co. 41. Bks. 
141. Naval Repair Base. Algiers. La. 
Knutson, John A., ex. '47, Pfc, USMC, Co. E. Pit- 3. O.C. Bn.. Schools Regt. T.C.. F.M.F.. Camp LeJeune. N. C. 
Koch. Richard C , ex. '47. Pfc . USMC. Co. E.. 
O. C. Bn.. Schools Regt. T.C.. F.M.F., Camp 
LeJeune, N. C. Koch, William, e-x. '46, Pvt , Co. B. 154 Bn.. 
92 Rest. T.R.T.C.. Camp Hood, Te.x. 
Koch, William J., e-x. '48. P\t . Co. C. 107lii Bn.. 76 Regt. I.R.T.C.. Camp J. T. Robinson. Little Rock. Ark. 

Kochman, Hcnrs' L., ex. '46. Pvt, Co. D, 64 Inf., Trg. Bn., Camp Woltcr.«, Tex. Kostera, Walter S., ex. '46. Ens.. Amphibious Training Base. Fort Pierce. Fla. Krall, James E., '29, Lt. (sg). Chasefield, Bec­ville. Tex. Kreiling, Arthur J., ex. "48. S 2/c. c/o FPO. San Francisco. Calif. Krem, Louis J., e-x. '29. Lt. Camp Shanks. N. Y. Krieg. Thomas J., ex. '47. S 3/c. Photo School Class. 5-45, N.T.S.. Pensacola. Fla. Krisch, Glen D., ex. '46. Pvt . USMC. Sea School 2. San Diego 41. Calif. Kritter, Eugene J.. Jr.. e.x. '47. Pfc . USMC. Co. D. 3rd Pit. O. a Bn.. School Regt.. T.C.. F.M.F.. Camp LeJeune. N. C. Krosse. John W., ex. '47. V-12 Unit Co. E. 
Crosby Hall. Rm. 220. Rochester 3. N. Y. Krueger. Ardcn C , ex. '4?. S 2/c. .4.O.M. 14. Dks. 72. N.A.T.T.C. Norman. Okla. 
Kuzniar, Francis J., ex. '47. Pvt., Co. C, 147th Bn.. 90th Regt. I.R.T.C., Camp Hood, Texas. KIttcka, Thomas J., ex. '47, Co. F. 88th Glider 
Inf.. APO 333. Camp Mackall. N. C. 

Kluding, Paul F., '39, Pn. . c/o Postmaster. 
N. Y. C. Kivisto, Ernest, ex. '47, Pfc, USMC, Co. K. 1st Pit . o9th Class. O.C.Bn.. Quantico. Va. Lill. John F., ex. '45, S 2/c, Sec 7-3 Q Bks. 305, L.S. School Service Command. Great 
Lakes. III. Lombardi, Gerardo J., '44, Ens.. 63 Patton Hall. 
Sec 156. N.T.S.. Princeton. N. J. 

Lujack, John, Jr.. ex. '46. Midshijiman. Billet 
914-A. Furnald Hall. New York 27. 

Lufz. Robert F.. ex. '46. Pvt. Ontario. Canada. 
Mahoney. James P., '27, Killed in service. 
Mahoney, Robert J., ex. *40. Pvt. Troop. G, 1st Tng. Regt.. C.R.T.C.. Bks. 2076. Fort Rile.v. Kansas. 
Marietta, Donald J., '41, S 2/c Bks. 601, U.S.­N.T.S.. Great Lakes. 111. 
Martina, Robert J., '44. Ens.. Bat 2. Co. G. Bks. 12-4. Camp McOonough. Plattsburg. N. Y. Mascette, Paul P.. ex. '41. Sgt. c/o Postmastnr, 
N. Y. C. McCarthy. Daniel E., "41, Pvt, Co. A. 61st Med. Trng. Bn.. Camp Barkely. Te.x. McCarthy, John T., ex. '47. Cadet U.S.M.S.. Hodman Island. N. Y. McKenna, John W., '44, Ens., Hollywood Beach 
Hotel, Hollywood Beach. Fla. McKevitt. Thomas L., '32. Lt. USNR. McLaughlin, Wilmer L., ex. '45. c/o Postmaster. 
N. Y. C. McManus, Terence M., ex. '47, S 1/c. (RT) (V-6). Navy Pier. Chicago. 
Meter, Bernard J., ex. '45. Pfc. USMC. Co. D. 4th Pit. O. C. Detachment. Camp LeJeune. 
N. C. Meyers, William T.. '40. A/C. Gulfport Field. 
Mass. Milliman. John R-, '43. Pvt. c/o Postmasljar. 
N. Y. C. Milone, Alexander J., ex. '45. Killed in service. Minor, Edward K., ex. '47. Pvt., O'Reilly Gen­

eral Hospital. MDETS. Bks. 243. Springfield. Mo. Morcan, John B.. '40. Ens., c/o FPO. N. Y. C. Morris, Robert J., ex. '48. A.O.M.. N.A.T.-T C. Memphis 15. Tenn. Morrison, John E., ex. "32, T/4. Alaska. Mulcahy, James L.. '38. 1st Lt . Killed in service. Mullen, William G., Jr., ex. '47. S 2/c. Naval Training Station. BIdg. 4102. Newport. R. I. Murphy, Francis Jerome, '40. Lt (jg). Medical Corps. Sampson Naval Base. N. Y. Murphy. Richard C . '42. Cpl. Co. F.. Bks. 309. Sec 4D. Camp Ritchie. Md. Murray, Stanford E., '43, Sgt , Station Hospital, Bks. 4, Camp Patrick Henr.v. Newport News, Va. 
O'Toolc, Paul L.. '32. L t (jg). Armed Guard School. Camp Shelton. Va. Ouilette, Leo A., ex. '46. S 2/c Co. 1545, US­NTC. Great Lakes. 111. Overmeyer, Robert F., '43. S 1/c Batt. 1-45. Pla. 
4. N.T. School. (EE&RM). USNTC. Gulfport. Miss. 

Pflum, John C , ex. '48. Co. 8. PI. 1. N.T.S.. V-12. A.&M. University. Iowa Street. Ames. Iowa. 
Pilara, Francis A., ex. '47. A/S. Co. 1946. Great Lakes. III. Powers, Thomas C , '39. Ens., c/o FPO. San Francisco. Price, Thomas F., ex. '31, Cpl., New Guinea. 
Quirk, Patrick J., '32. 4th Co. 1st Student Regt TAS. Fort Knox. Ky. 
Reynolds, Robert L.. ex. '46. Pvt. Co'. B.. 39th LT.B.. 3rd Pit.. Camp Croft. S. C. Rigney, Robert J., '28. Capt. H(i.. c/o Post­master. N. Y. C. Rourke, Thomas Robert. '42. Pvt.. Sec. Q. Bks. 
2. O.R.D.. A.A.F., Greensboro. N. C. Russell, Lyie W.. ex. '39. Capt. Italy. Rykovich. Julius A., ex. '47. Pfc . USMC. Co. 
D. 5th Pit. O. C. Bn.. Schools Regt.. T.C., F.M.F., Camp LeJeune, N. C. 

Rudden, Francis J,. e.x. '48. A/S. Co. 417. US­NTC. Sampson. N. Y. 
Scfarot, Joseph, ex. '47. Pvt.. A-T Co.. 27oth Inf.. APO 461. Fort Leonard Wood. Mo. Setzer. William ¥.. ex. '35. Cpl., c/o Postmaster. San Francisco. 
She«, William J., 'IS. Capt.. Troop Escort Com­mand. Camp Reynolds, Pa. 
Sicnaiso, Joseph S.. e.\. '46. Pfc . USMC. Co. D 5th Pit.. O. C. Bn.. Schools Regt.. Camp LeJeune. 'N. C. 
(Continue<i on Pajre 21) 



FOR GOD, COUNTRY. NOTRE DAME 
IN GLORY EVERLASTING 
PREVIOUSLY REPORTED 
The deaths of 149 Notre Dame men serving in the armed forces of the Allies in World War II have already been listed in the "Alumnus." (A total of 56 Notre Dame men lost their lives in World War I). 

Pvt. Thomas F. O'Neill, ex. '30, Al­bany, N. Y., lost his life, Dec. 4, in com­bat with the Thil-d Army in France. He had been overseas only a month. In ad­dition to his wife, Laurina Bolduc O'Neill, Tom is survived by thi-ee sons, his mother, a brother and three sisters. 
LT. RICHARD J. CARROLL 

flew a P-38 to England in July, 1942, and was one of the first Americans to put a "Lightning" into action in Algiers, landing there Nov. 8, 1942. He was shot down over Gabes on Dec. 30 and cap­tured by the Italians after being on 20 missions. 
Definite information about Dick's fate had been lacking for almost two years. It was not until Nov. 14, 1944, that his parents received the tragic confirmation of his death. 
P\T. THOMAS F . O'NEILL 

Since he left Notre Dame, Tom had been employed by Matthew Bender & Co., Inc., law booksellers and publishers, in Albany. He entered the Ai-my in April, 1944, completed his basic training at Camp Blanding, Fla. 
Lt. Richard J. Carroll, '37, Chicago, was killed Jan. 14, 1943, when the Ital­ian submarine in which he was a prison­er was desti'oyed in the Mediterranean Sea. He is survived by his parents, a brother, William P. Carroll, Jr., '33, and 
CAPT. FR<VNCIS T. FARRELL a sister, Mrs. John A. O'Leary, whose husband was graduated from Notre Capt. Francis T. Farrell, '39, South Dame in 1939. The Purple Heart was Bend, was killed in action, Dec. 10, on posthumously awarded to Dick. the Gei-man front. Holder of the DFC, Dick enlisted in the Army Air Corps the Purple Heart and the .4ir -Medal in September, 1941, and received his with an Oak Leaf Cluster, he was a liai­wings at Luke Field in April, 1942. He son pilot for the third armored division 
of the First Army. Frank is survived by his wife, the former Roberta Thompson, whom he married at Ft. Sill, Okla., Feb. 28, 1942, his son, and father. 
After graduating in 1939, he spent a year at the University of Syracuse, N. Y., working for his master's degrree in history, intending to follow in the foot­steps of his father, William E. Farrell, former history professor at Notre Dame, now a resident of Frankfort, N. Y. Frank was drafted into the Army on June 23, 1941, and speedily moved to his commission because of his CPT experi­ence and his four years in St. Thomas Military Academy, St. Paul, Minn. 
Frank was a member of St. Joseph's parish. South Bend, and belonged to the • South Bend Elks. On the campus he was particularly known as head cheerleader in his senior year. 
Lt. Bartholomew D. O'Toole, Jr., '39, Chicago, one of the five O'Toole brothers 
LT. BABTHOLOMEW D. CTOOLE, JR. 

who have been graduated from Notre Dame and one of the seven members of his family in the armed forces, was killed in action with the armored forces of Lt. Gen. Patton's Third -•Vrmy on Nov. 10. 
Surviving Bart are his father, six brothers and three sisters. The brothers are Lt. Donald, '31, Lt. Paul,' '32, Sgt Justin, '36, Lt. Vincent, Lt. Kevin, '43, and Robert, now a student of Notre Dame, who will be gnraduated in June, 1945. One of the sisters is an ensig^n sta­tioned at Mare Island, Calif. 
Before enlisting in February, 1941, Bart was employed by Brown, Bennett & Johnson, a Chicago bond house. He trained "at Csunp Forrest, Tenn., and was commissioned at Ft. Knox, Ky.,'dn July 4, 1942. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1ST LT. RICHARD B. KELLY 

1st Lt. Richara B. Kelly, USMC, '40, Lorain O., was killed in Peleliu, Sept. 16, 1944. His TOfe, Mildred Reed Kelly, and his parents survive him. 
After his graduation, Dick was em­ployed by the Thew Shovel Company until April, 1942, when he enlisted in the Marine Corps for officers' training. He left Lorain in August, 1942, and was commissioned a second lieutenant in October at Quantico, Va., and re­mained there until the latter part of December, 1942. He spent some time in Australia and then later participated in the battles of Cape Gloucester, also Hol­landia and the battle of Peleliu, where he lost his life. 
A letter from Dick's chaplain. Father Ryan, said that Dick devoutly attended a novena just shortly before he left rest 
SGT. NORBERT J. SPENCER 

camp to board ship for Peleliu and that he went to confession and holy Com­munion just before landing. 
Sgt. Norbert J. Spencer, '40, Indian­apolis, was killed in action, Dec. 15, in France, after serving overseas two months with the infantry. Survivors be­side his wife and his parents, are his sister and two brothers, Paul E., ex. '42, Indianapolis, and Thomas M., ex. '43, Los Angeles. 
Norb entered the service in May, 1942, and was stationed at Ft. Benjamin Har­rison, Ind., Camp McCain, Miss., and Fort Jackson, S. C. He was married Aug. 5, 1944 to Agnes D. Koeppen, of Mishawaka, well known on the campus as a member of the Accounting Office staff. While attending the University, Norb was a member of the symphony orchestra. 
CHIEF STOREKEEPER AXGELO DE MARCO 

Chief Storekeeper Angslo De Marco, ex. '41, Chicago, was instantly killed in a truck accident, Dec. 23, in North Africa. 
He enlisted in the Navy in January, 1942, and went to Great Lakes for .his boot training. From Gr'eat Lakes he pro­ceeded to Pensacola where he was based two and one-half years and was a mem­ber of the station football team. He left Pensacola in June, 1944, and arrived in North Africa in July, 1944. 
Angelo was empolyed for a time by the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corp. before entering the Navy. Surviving him are his father, a sister and a brother. 
Lt. Jeremiah J. Killigrew, USNR, '42, Hobart, Ind., was killed in action, when his ship, the USS Cooper, was sunk in the Ormoc Bay in the Philippines, by a torpedo apparently, on Dec. 3. Of the complement of 300 men only 158 were rescued by Catalina flying boats. The destroyer sank in 60 seconds. 
Jerry, whose mother, Mrs. Alvina M. Killigrew lives in Hobart, received his naval training at Abbott Hall in Chica­go and at Harvard. He was supply offi­cer aboard the Cooper. 
Lt. Robert A. (Bobo) Fischer, '43, Wauwatosa, Wis., was killed in action when his Mustang fighter plane which he called the "Notre Dame," was shot down over Italy on Nov. 17. Sui-viving Bob are his wife, Harriet Grabowski Fischer, a daughter whom he had never seen, and his parents, all of whom reside in Wauwatosa. 
Bob's first fighter plane was so badly damaged by flak that he had to get an­other one and it was this second one which he named the "Notre Dame." Out­standing as a pitcher on the varsity baseball team at Notre Dame, he met his death within a week of the death, also in the European theater, of his baseball teammate here, Sgt. Dick Grant, ex. '44, Freeport, 111. 
Sgt. Raymond J. McManus, Jr., '43, Indianapolis, died Nov. 22, in a hospital at Toul, France, as a result of meningi­tis. Overseas since early April, 1944, Ray was stationed in England until shortly after D-day, when his unit entered France with the Third Army.' He is sur­vived by his par­ents and a brother, M/Sgt Robert R. gar. R. J. MCMANUS McManus, '40, who has been in the South Pacific for two and one-half years. 
Having previously enlisted in the Army Reserve Corps, Ray was called to active service in February, 1943. He was inducted at Fort Hayes, Columbus, O., and was then sent to Camp Grant, 111., for basic training, eventually becoming a member of the training cadre at that station. His last station in the States was Camp Carson, Colo. 
Sgt Richard Grant, ex. '44, Freeport, 111., was killed in action in France Nov. 23, after less than a month in the coun­try. His parents are the only survivors. 
Dick was called to service in June, 1943, after completing three years at Notre Dame. He received his training at North Camp Hood, Texas, ^vith the tank 
SGT. M. RICHARD GRANT 

destroyers but transferred to the infan­try and arrived in England in July, 1944. 
Dick had qualified for OCS and could have stayed in the States but preferred to go overseas. In 1941 he turned down a chance to enter West Point, saying, "My buddies.are all in active service; I want to go out with them and do my bit out there." 
On the baseball squad at Notre Dame for two years as a third baseman and outfieldei', Dick won a monogram in 1943. 
Sgt. Francis Morrell Murphy, ex. '44, Los Angeles, was killed in action at Gela, on July 11, 1943, while transport­ing pai-atroopers for the invasion of Sic­ily. Morrell is survived by three broth­ers, two of whom are Notre Dame men. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Daniel J. Murphy, '38, and Thomas J. Murphy, '41. 
Morrell left Notre Dame to enlist in the AAF in January, 1942. He became a crew chief and qualified pilot. In May, 1943, he flew with his squadron to North Africa. He was posthumously awarded the Purple Heart and the Presidential citation. 
1st Lt. Walter H. Barton. AAF, ex. 

'44, Cicero, 111., was killed in action over 
Hungary, Dec. 26, on a bombing mission. 
Walt, who had enlisted on Feb. 25, 

1943, and received his wing^s and com­
mission April 15, was stationed in Italy 
with a Liberator bombardment group 
which has been bombing strategric en­
emy installations throughout central 
and southern Europe. He was a co-pilot. 
F. O. EDWARD A. ROWAN 

F. O. Edwa.d Alfred Rowan, ex. '45, St. Louis, was lost enroute to England, via Greenland and Iceland, in a trans­port plane. His plane with seven aboard left Iceland, Oct. 9, after delays due to weather conditions, and the last heard from it was a distress signal over the north Atlantic between Iceland and Scot­land. It subsequently was established that all aboard had died. 
Ed was a sophomore at Notre Dame when he enlisted in the Air Corps in De­cember, 1942. He was inducted in Febru­ary, 1943, and spent 19 months in train­ing at Altus, Okla., and San Antonio, Tex. He was graduated from Altus Air Field as a flight oflicer in the bomber command on Sept. 9, 1944. 
12, 1944, in Aachen, Germany. He had been sent over­seas on June 26, 1944, and, after a short stay in England, fought with the Army in France, Belgium, Holland and Ger­many. 
Jerry was in­ducted into the 
CPL J. T. WnzMAN 

Army on May 26, 1942, at Fort Thomas, Ky., and immedi­ately shipped to Ft. Benning, Ga., where he spent 13 weeks in basic train­ing. At the completion of this training he was promoted to corporal and given the duties of an instructor. He spent 13 months at Ft. Benning before being sent to Ft. Meade, where he received his APO. 
Sgt. Thomas F. Calvin, Jr., ex. '46, Lawrence, Mass., was killed in action in Germany on Nov. 18. Surviving Tom are his brother, Bartholomew, and his par­ents. 
While at Notre Dame, Tom sig^ned up in the Army Reserve and in June, 1943, reported to Ft. Devens, Mass. He was immediately sent to Camp Fannin, Tex., for his preliminary training, then be­came a member of the ASTP at Ford­ham University. When the ASTP was disbanded, Tom was sent to Camp Car­son, Colo. 
His division was the first which went directly to France from the States. After a period of training in France, this outfit was sent to the front lines, traveling across France, through Bel­gium and Holland, into Germany. 
Cpi. Jerome T. Witzman, ex. '45, St. SGT. FRANCIS MORRELL MURPHY Bernard, 0., was killed in action on Oct. SGT. THOMAS F . GALVIN, JK. 
The Notre Dame Al u m n us 
ther served in Fi-ance as a surgeon in '46, Toronto, Canada, was killed in ac­entire surface of his body, in an explo­
Pfc Lawrence P. Leonard, Jr., ex. sult of severe bums suffered over the World War L) He was the first gradu­ate of St. Thomas More High School, tion in Holland on Nov. 5. Sui-\iving be-sion at the Field on May 15. 
PFC. LAWRENCE P. LEONARD, JR. 

sides his parents are a sister and a brother, Capt. William C. Leonard of Irish Regiment of Canada, now in Italy. 
On Nov. 11, 1942, Larry enlisted in the Army and took his basic training in Texas. Selected as a student in engineer­ing, he spent a year at Princeton Uni­versity. After training at Camp Carson, Colo., he went overseas in August, 1944, with an infantry unit. 
Sent directly to France, his unit be­came a part of the Ninth Army and pro­ceeded to Belgium and then to Holland. Larry had a pai-t in the capture of Brest, when he received his first ribbon. 
The ALUMNUS has' so far received only incomplete information regarding the following Notre Dame men who died in the service of their countiy: Lt. John 
LaGrou, ex. '43, killed in action in the central Pacific, Nov. 21; Leonard J. Herriges, ex. '43, Lake Forest, III., killed in action on the western front, Nov. 16; James E. Sheets, ex. '45, Ashland, O., killed in action in Germany. 
Deaths Already Reported 

(In its previous issues the ALUMNUS ivas able to print only brief notices of the deatlis in the armed forces of the following Notre Dame men. More infor­mation aboiit these men norv being avail­able, we are presenting it here.—Eds.) 
Kenneth E. Duffy, ex. '43, Chicago, died at Scott Field, HI., on May 26, one day after his 24th birthday, as the re-
KENNETH E. DUFFY 

Leaving Notre Dame in May, 1941, Ken worked in the County Auditor's office in Chicago, was married in Feb­ruary, 1942, and was later employed by the Chrysler Corp. He was drafted in March, 1943, and sent to Keesler Field, Miss., for his basic training. Later train­ing in airplane engines he had at Parks Air College, East St. Louis, III., and at Scott Field. 
Ken's wife and his young son. Ken, Jr., and daughter, Marj' Ann, survive • him. 
Fi'om his wife comes this inspiring note in a recent letter: "Just a touch of something that is like Notre Dame—Ken received Communion every day during those 11 days at Scott Field. Many times he was so delirious he didn't know me, his wife, or his mother and father. But strange the power of Christ, he knew the priest and did exactly as Fathsr told him. (His lips were so badly burned he had to take water before and after re­ceiving the Host.)" 
Pfc Edward F. Casey, ex. '45, Phila­delphia, died in a hospital in north France on Sept. 14 as the result of wounds which he had suffered on Sept. 10 in combat. Having had his overseas training in Ireland and Wales, he was among the first to enter France on D-Day. 
Ed is survived by his parents and by two brothers and five sisters. (His fa-
PFC. EDWARD F . CASEY 

Philadelphia, to enroll at Notre Dame. Through high school he was active as a member of the Debating Club, football squad and crew, and at Notre Dame he participated in the Bengal Bouts. 
His second year on the campus inter­rupted by his induction into the Army in February, 1943, Ed had his infantry training in this country at Camp Swift, Texas. He went overseas in October, 1943. 
Pvt Alexander J. Milone, ex. '45, 

Brooklyn, N. Y., died in France on Sept. 19 as the result of a gunshot wound ac­cidentally inflicted while he was boarding a truck. 
After attending St. John's Prepar­atory school, where he was cap­tain of the hockey team, Al came to Notre Dame fo r two an d one-half years, until, as a PVT. A. J. MiLONE member of the EEC, he was called to active duty in June, 1943. Trained at Camp Croft, S. C, and Camp Meade, Md., he went over­seas in January, 1944, and took part in the Normandy invasion and in the sub­sequent fighting at Cherbourg, St. Lo and Vire. 
Surviving Al are his parents and a sister and brother. 
Missing in Action Lt. Leo J. Fomenko, '35, South Bend. Serving overseas with the field artillery since October, 1944. Leo has been miss­ing since Dec. 16. 
Lt. Donald R. McKay, '36, Fargo, 

N. D. A doctor in the Navy medical corps, Don is missing in the Southwest Pacific according to word reaching his one-time Notre Dame roommate. Prof. Bob Ervin, of Notre Dame. 
1st Lt. Samuel S. Lawler, ex. '38, South Bend. A member of the AAF, Sam is missing in the European theater according to mail returned to the Uni­versity with an Army notation. 
1st Lt. Louis J. Bemish, '39, Roches­ter, N. Y. Lou was missing over China on Oct. 14 on the return from a B-29 raid on Formosa. 
Lt. Harold Wilbur Borer, '40, Great neck, N. Y. the Religious Bulletin re­ported on Dec. 13 that Wally, a mem­ber of the Naval Air Corps, was missing. 
Lt. Charles R. Schlayer, '41, Harris­burg, Pa. He was a navigator on the crew of the first B-29 to raid Tokyo since the 1942 raid of General Doolittle. Missing since Dec. 22, 1944. 
Robert L. Hengel, e.x. '42, Pierre, S. 

D. Missing in action over Los Negros in the Philippines, according to word from Father James Connerton, C.S.C, University registrar. 
Pfc. John L. Wiggins, '43, Chicago. Missing in Holland on Nov. 2. 
Lt. Robert J. McBride, ex. '44, Lan­caster, O. Taking part in the fighting in Belgium, Bob has been missing since Dee. 21. 
Lt. Charles S. McKeIvy, Jr., ex. '44, Atchison, Kans. Pilot of a P-47 Thun­derbolt, Charlie has been missing over Germany since Nov. 8. He was attached to the Eighth Air Force in England. 
John K. Wolff, ex. '44, Raleigh N. C. Father William T. Craddick, prefect of religion, received word on Jan. 19 that John was missing. 
Richard P. Froehike, ex. ''45, Wau­conda. 111. Dick has been missing since Dec. 20 in Luxembourg. 
Father Craddick has sent word that these four members of the class of '45 are also missing: John R. Keane, Gar­den City, N. Y., Lt. Eugene R. Killoren, AAF, Appleton, Wis., Roger P. O'Reilly, Woodside, N. Y., and Robert P. Tail, South Haven, Mich. 
Prisoners of War 

1st Lt. Philip M. Wade, '40, Eliza­beth, N. J. Reported in the December ALUMNUS as missing, Phil is now known to be a prisoner of Germany, according to a letter from Thomas V. Wade, '33. 
Flight Officer Charles J. Farrell, '41. Plattsburg, N. Y. Reported in late No­vember as missing in action over Hol­land, Charlie is now known to be a pris­oner of the Germans. 
Pfc. Francis A. Giordano, ex. '44, Jersey City, N. J. Frank had on Aug. 18 been reported as missing in the Euro­pean theater. On Oct. 13 official word came to his father that his son was a German prisoner. 
Lt. Ora A. Spaid. Jr., ex. '46, South Bend. Reported in the October ALUMNUS as missing on Sept. 12 over Germany, Ora is now a prisoner of war in Ger­many, according to a War Department telegram to his wife. 


EDUCATION, QUO VADIS? 
(Continued from Pajte 8) 

It is a foregone conclusion that edu­cation will never return to conditions that existed before Pearl Harbor, nor should it want to. It should continue to make changes of policy to meet the changing times, but most of all it should re-espouse the principles that make the true American—and Christian—concept of education the greatest in the world. Education should have a maxim that is at once a challenge and an ideal: The purpose of education is to teach men not only how to make a living but also how to live, and it should shape every activ­ity to this end. Underlying every course of study should be a program prescribed, not because of the professions that stu­dents will one day pursue, but because of their ultimate destiny as children of God. 
Let the colleges and universities in­sist with Cardinal Newman that "a uni­versity training is the great ordinary means to a great but ordinary end; it aims at raising the intellectual tone of society, at cultivating the public mind; at purifying the national taste, at sup­plying true principles to popular enthu­siasms and fixed aims to popular aspira­tions, at giving enlargement and sobri­ety to the ideas of the age, at facilitat­ing the exercise of political power, and refining the intercourse of private life." 
Had those who believe as Cardinal Newman does been in the majority, in­stead of the minority, for the last fifty or sixty years, would we not now be solving bnr problems more wisely? Had education depended upon Almighty God for its truths—^instead of upon "Al­mighty Man," robbed of his mind and bereft of his soul—could we not look forward to tomorrow with greater confi­dence? Had we remained true to our her­itage, thousands of students would not have received shadow for substance, and one of them, John Edward Spear, a private in the Army of the United States, could not have written: 
Professors, writers, lemmed men. what do You. faced with present circumstances, say About the'things you taught us yesterday? For 1 remember dearly still how you. Enthroned upon the seats of wisdom, threw With pompons show and scholarly display The ancient laws God gave to man, away And introduced the lawlessness you knew. You taught us this in days before the war. What teach you now? There is no wrong or ris^t? •_ Truth is a myth? Han needs his God no more? Ycu do not dare, for war has brought to light Your lies; so give us back the truth you swore' Away, that we may honorably fight. 
The entire structure of American edu-: cation needs to be rebuilt, not on a new foundation, but upon the old one. In the I>ostwar planning there is no need for education to look far afield for any pro­gram. It already has one buried in the past. Let it remove the electivism, pro­gressivism, and other debris with which it has been cluttered, and build upon the principles inherent in the Christian heri­tage which it never should have aban­doned. 
In so far as Notre Dame is concerned, there can be no doubt about where she has always stood, or where she stands now. Hers is the true Christiai^—and American—^philosophy. She believes in . sound progress, but always with basic principles as a point of departure. Notre Dame chases no will-o'-the-wisps. There has been, and there can be, no compro­mise with truth. Today, as always, Notre Dame is a citadel of western culture. To preserve this citadel, to strengthen it, and at the same time expand the sphere of its influence is the end to which we of Notre Dame re-dedicate ourselves. 

ADDITIONAL SERVICE MEN 

'(Continued from Page 16) Spaid. O n A., Jr., ex. '46. Lt.. Prisoner of war. StackpMie, Jelui K., '29, Lt. (ig). Bat 5. Co. 
V-2. Bks. 30-3. Plattsburg. N. Y. Stein. RakcH W.. ex. '38. Lt. 
Timtiki. Jehu E.. ex. '48. Pvt., Co. C, 57 Bn., 12 Rest.. Camp Fannin. Tex. 
Wall. Harry B.. ex. '31, Lt., IT Durbung Bd.. 
Wellesley Hills, 82, Mass. > . Walter, Kchaid U . '41, Sgt. Sq. D, 338tli AAF Base Unit (CCTS-F), Page Field. Fort Kyers. Fla. 






ALUMNI CLUBS 
AKRON 
Walter P. HcCourt, '16, 424 Greenwood Ave, Pres.; Germld H. Klein, '32, 852 DUcoiul Ro«d* Sec. 
A clippinKt fill&d with pictures of the exceed­ingly attractive female members of the committee in charge, told the Alumni Office that the club had had its 12th annual holiday dance on Jan. 6 in the Mayflower Hotel, Akron. Mrs. Frank Steel and Mrs. Glenn Smith were co-chairmen of the women's committee, and it was in Mrs. Steel's home that the pictures were taken, just after the job of mailing 750 invitations had been completed. 
Other members of the committee were Mrs. CUade Hominc. Mrs. John Al. Doran. Mrs. Charles McGnckin, Mrs. A. A. Hilkert. Mrs. Jo­seph Krakcr, Mrs. Theodore Lej-. Mrs. Tim Rauh, Mrs. Bernard Ley, Mrs. Murray Powers, Mrs. Richard Botzam, Mrs. Stephen Wozniak, and Mrs. John A. Dettlinr-­
Proceeds of the dance were donated to the Crile General Hospital for returnintj war veterans. 
CENTRAL OHIO 
LOBIS C Murphy. '33. 2357 Urinsston Are., ColnnihM, Prea.; Daniel F. Cannon, '31, 8 East Broad St.. Colambos, Sec. 
Bud Hnrphy and Lt- Col. Bob Riordan both send word that the affairs of the club KO on. centered around the Monday luncheons in the University Club. After the luncheon on Nov. 20. the Notre Dame men joined the Michi};an C!ub of Columbus to hear Don Hamilton tell of the football season as he had seen it in his numerou.= ofliciatinfr assignments. 

New at the Nov. 20 luncheon v.-as Capt. Bob Grocran, *37, who for 18 months past had been stationed at the Lockbourne Air Base. 10 miles south of Columbus but who had just come in touch with Oolumbus-N.D. alumni. Bob resides in Columbus with his wife and child. Another guest was Capt. &nck Jaeeer, ex. '35. stationed at the Boston Port of Embarkation. Mick's c.o. is Col-Chaiies B. Drek. one-time Notre Dame student and veteran of World War I. 
CHICAGO 
Richard L. Phelan, '28, Trust Dept., Chica-KO Title & Tnwt Co., €9 W. Washington St., Pres.; Thomas S. McCabe, '22, 1448 RaMfaer Ave., Se c 

The Communion Mass and Breakfast of the club took place Dea 10. Mass was celebrated by Father Tom Brennan, C.S.C., at Old St. Mary*s and the breakfast followed at the Blackstone Hotel. The Mass and Communion were offered for Notre Dame men of the armed forces. The' fathers of Notre Dame service men were present. 
Father Brennan gave an inspiring talk at the breakfast, which surpassed in attendance any re­cent records for the event. This wrs due in large measure to the untiring efforts of Bob Irmiger, the chairman, and his committee. 
The club suffered a great loss in the passing of T»m Hoban. *18, long an active figure in Notre Dame affairs in Chicago and always a true friend of all alumni. TTie members and officers of the club extend every sj-mpathy and our prayers to his bereaved family. The club was also saddened by the news that Frank McKeever's son has been killed in action, and extended to Frank and his family their condolences. 
Dan Madden, *06. has been confined in St. Joseph's Hospital for some three months with an infection. His many friends will be pleased to hear that he is on the road to recovery and ex­pects to be out soon. 
Bill "TWA" Pludiel, '28, traffic manager of air mail and exi>rcss, Kansas City, was in Chicago recently, attending an airlines* meeting. 
Tom McCahe 

CLEVELAND 
Pisice J. O'Connor, '2?, 2129 LaMb^iloti lU., Prca.; James R. Bscky, 2425 OmlMk Rd., Sec. 
1st Lt. Richard Kelly, '40. of the Marines, gave his life in Peleliu. Sept. 16. 1944. Lt. Kelly lived in Lorain. O. 
Capt. Robert W. Blake, of the Marines, received a citation from the U. S. Marine Corps "for con­spicuous gallantry arid intrepidity in action against the Japanese during the New Georgia campaign, Solomon Islands, July, 1943." Lt. (jg) Thomas R. Nolan would like to hear from some of the boys. Lt. (js) Edward Schroeter writes from Panama that he met Lt. Tom Mulli­gan, who brought his ship through the Pancma Canal, and the hoys spent the night together. 
Head Coach Ed McKcever was the principal -speaker at the civic luncheon for Les Hor\-ath, AU-Amsrican from Ohio State, and also at the Cathedral Latin annual football banquet Club members in attendance were Dan Dnffy, Al Crit­anti, William Van Roy, Don Miller, J. P. Marphy, Pat Canny, Tom Leahy, Billy Ryan. Father Michael Moriarty, Joe Gavin. Pierce O'Connor and Jim Bcffley. Ens. Jack Coleman is awaiting his ship after finishing at Notre Dame. Srt. Boh Coleman is at Officer's Candidate School in New Orleans. Lt. (je) Bill Coleman's address is 14 Lee Court, New Rochelle. N. Y. He is with the naval salvage division. 

Lt. (jg) Joe Prokop is skipper aboard a mine sweepar in the South Pacific Bill Mahoney, of Ashtabula, is with the Navy aboard a carrier. Lt. Frank Gaul is in California. It is now Ist Lt, John Begley. Pierce O'Connor, Cleveland club president, is now with OPA. Lou Zontini had a good season with the Cleveland Rams. Tom Wak­ovits is playing with Cleveland Allmen Transfer in the pro-basketball league. Capt. Tony Anzlovar is stationed in the Philippines. It is now Lt. (w) Val Deale. Newest member of the Notre Dame club is Thoma-s Francis Bagley, II, bom Dec. 30, 1944. 
J. R. Becley 

DELAWARE 
William D. Bailey, '24, 801 Ri%er Rd,. Rircr­side Gardens, Wilmington. Del., Prca.; Walter J. Cordes, '42, 407 W. 20th St., WUminrton 258, DeL, Se c 

Annual Universal Communion Sunday was ob­served by the club on Dec. 10. Mass was cele­brated at the chapel of Salesianum Catholic High 
School by the Rev. James F. O'Neill of the Ob­lates of St. Francis. Following Mass and Com­munion, the group met at the Natural Foods Restaurant. Rev. Francis J. Desmond, an assist­ant rector of St. Elizabeth's parish and newly-appointed diocesan director of the Wilmington C.Y.O., was the principal speaker. Father O'Neill also spoke, extemporaneously, concerning his work cs' director of athletics at Salesianum. President W- D. Bailey presided. Arrangements for the Communion-breakfast were made by R. J. Thom­a«, Wi S. Hurray, and T. F. Desman. 
Jahn Q. Adams. '26,^ vice-president of the Man­hattan Refrigeration Co., New York, was a speak­er .at the first in a series of forums on the subject of labor end industry sponsDrcd by the Wilmington Knights of Columbus. He shared the platform with Rev. Raymond A. McGowan. as­sistant director of the Social Action Department of the National Catholic Welfare Council, and John Brophy, director of industrial councils. 
G.I.O. and a member of the National War Labor Board. 
Donald K. (Vagabond) Doffy, '39. of the duPont Rayon Department, has been transferred back to Wilmington from Chicago. 
Lo«is G. Alaman, *37, and Charles L. Pick­hardt, '44, are stationed at the Newcastle Army Air Base and are welcome newcomers to the ciub, 
AValter Cordes 


GOGEBIC RANGE 
Ja»,!i G. Raincrl, Jr., « c '31, 1307 Second 
ATfc. N.. Hariejr. WU.. Piw.; Eaxene B. Ztan, 
"St, IIS-C Bracmn Bide., Ironwood, Midi., Sec 

Harty Stshldreher, '25, athletic director and coach of the University of Wisconsin, spoke in Ironwood, Mich., on Dec, 20. before the .nthletes of the parochial and public schools of the city. The ;;thle:es were guests at a joint dinner of the Kiwanis and Rotary, Stuhldreher save 46 speeches in 21 days throuithout this MichiKan-Wisconsin area. He is scheduled to go on a mis­sion to the bajtiefronts sometime during the year 1945, depending upon the progress of the wvr. 
Bobert O'CnllaEhan, who was wounded in ac­tion in Germany, is now in a hospital in Ohio, Heie.tpects to'be transferred to Chicago for treat­mejit. He wa;; wounded in the spine, and as a r^ h paralysis h=s set in. Bob was at Notre Inme when h? enlisted in 1943. His father. Rob­ert_<>'CalIathun, was at Notre Dame just before Woiild War :. His mother attended St. Mary's r.i?.the formsr Kathleen Sutherland of Ironwood. 
-.-I^" Bleeg: *32, who represented the duPont PoK'der Co.. .vith headqunrtcrs in Ironwood. has • b»en promote.1 to Pittsburgh. His family will join him soon. • 
Ed Simonic'ii, '39, Ironwood is now athletic di­rector at Catholic Central High School,. Butte. Mont His tc'am recently won the tri-state invi­tational baskc'ti'all tournament. 
Ens. Bay Ebli, '42. of Ironwood (who played on Lcahy'i football teams at Notre Dame) is some­where in the Pacific. Had a card from him lately. Kay played with the Chicago Cardinals for two 
•seasons and in two All-Star football games in Chicago. 
Vic Lemm^r 


HAWAII 
Every other letter coming in from the Pacific of late, it seems, speaks of the Notre Dame Club of Hawaii and of its meetings. St. Augustine's hall, Waikiki. Honolulu. T. H., is, on certain Sunday afternoons, the gathering place for scores of Notre Dame men who are either stationed in the Islands or who are thereabouts temporarily. Nothing in the Pacific is more enjoyable, accord­ing to enthusiastic comments received here. 
On Oct. 8. for instance, some 'iO or 40 former students gathered in St. Augustine's. Then on Nov. 12, as word of the meetings got around, there were more than 100 present. Since that was the day after the Army game, the club sent Ed McKecver the following cable: "We are with you all the time. Beat Northwestern." Frank Leahy was among the mourners in Honolulu. 
There was also to be a meeting on Jan. 14. 
The overseas pony express hasn't brought in any 
word so far on that round-up. 
Note to club secretary: Will you send to the 
"Alumnus" reports of the meetings as soon as 
they're held? And will you indicate how much of 
the reports, according to censorship rules, is 
printable in the U.S.A. Thanks. 
INDIANAPOLIS 
R. Michael Fox, '34, 425 BackinKham Dr., PrvB.; Francis L. (Mike) Layden, '36, 1731 Kesslcr Blvd., Sec. 

The club observed Universal Notre Dame Com­munion. Dec. 10, by attending Mass and receiving Holy Communion at the Blessed Sacrament Chap­el attached to SS. Peter and Paul Cathedral. Father Jchn P. O'Connell, C.S.C., chaplain to the Brothers at Cathedral High School, was the cele­brant. During the Mass Father 0'Conne!l deliv­ered a short sermon in which he urged the Notre Dame men to reconsecrate themselves to Our Blessed Lady. 
The Mass was offered for Notre Dame men who 
had given their lives for their country, were 
prisoners of war. wounded, and also for the sons 
and daughters of Notre Dame men who are serv­
ing in the different branches of the armed ser\'­
ices and for all Notre Dame men in service-
After Mass all present, and some who could not .attend but offered their Mass and Holy Commun­
ion at. their parish churches, had breakfast at the 
Indianapolis Athletic Club. A business meeting 
was held after the breakfast, with Walter J. 
Stahldreher, president, presiding. Father O'Con­
nell gave a short talk, telling something of the 
plans of the University to meet conditions as they 
will exist after the war. 
Walter Stnhldreher announced that plans were in preparation to have Masses said for Notre Dame men in service. These Masses will be of­fered by Father O'Connell during the year. 
The president also presented to the members a plan to have a Notre Dame club room at the Knights of Columbus club hou^*. This plan in­cluded a provision that there will be available at all tim.es at the desk at the Knights of Columbus club house a list of Notre Dame men so that any Notre Dame men visiting Indianapolis will be able to contact Notre Dame men living in that city. The club members were very enthusiastic about this plan, and it was adopted unanimously. The club room will be furnished by the Indianapolis Club and a'l Notre Dame men will have access to it at all times. A letter to the Knights of Colum­bus, thanking them for their kind offer and ac­cepting it, was ordered by the members. 
The following new officers were elected to take office Jan. 1: president, R. Michael Fox; vice-president. John Rocap; secretary, Francis L. (Mike) Layden: treasurer, J. Albert Smith. 
The retiring oflficers are: Walter J. StahUreiwr, president: William J. Mooney, vice-president; Fred L. Mahaffey, treasurer; Gcorce A. SMith, secretary. 
Georre A. Smitk 

KENTUCKY 
Frank Bloemcr. '22, Ash St., Pewee Valky, Louisville, Pres.; James Costello, *19, 19C4 Cherokee Rd., Loaisville. Sec. 

The club observed Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday on Dec. 10 with Mass at 7:30. in St. Mary Magdalen's Church, Louisville, fol­lowed by breakfast. There was a special remem­brance for Capt. Jack Henncssy, *41, of Louisville, killed in Italy on July 14. 1944. 
Of special interest to the club was the Univer­sity of Kentucky-Notre Dame basketball gjime, played in Louisville on Jan. 27. The game has be­come an annual event in Louisville. This year, on account of the outstanding records of both teams, it attracted unusual attention. 
LOS ANGELES 
Martin B. Daly, Jr., *2G, Formax Oil €•.» 318 Chapman Bldg., Pres. 

I recently had an enjoyable visit with Chet Grant, who was out on the Pacific Coast on busi­ness. 
Capt. Maurice E. "Clipper" Smith, U.S. Ma­rines, now stationed in North Carolina, passed through Los Angeles with a detachment of M;:­rines. 
1st Lt. Martin Brill of the Marines has been retired. It seems that Marty was instructing the Marines at Camp Pendleton. Calif., in some of the rough-and-tumble stuff as well as the big jumps preparing them for landings. As a conse­quence. Marty's ears became affected and he \vas given his medical discharge. Incidentally. Mrs. Brill presented Marty with a second daughter on the 11th of December. 
Among the others in military life who favored us with a call was Capt. Eogcne M. Kennedy, formerly of Ft. Douglas, Utah, now in troop transport service with headquarters in the north-e m part of the state. Gene has made several trips and each time he returns he checks in. 
Of the football fraternity, Ben Alexander re­ports that he was business manager and assistant coach for the San Francisco Clippers, professional football team. Slip Madiffan is back in San Fran­cisco after having spent the football season at the University of Iowa. Vince McKairy and Back Shaw have been mentioned as coaches for the San Francisco team of the newly formed All-America League. 
Report has it that Jack Chevicny is no longer at Camp Pendleton, but somewhere in the Pa­cific. JfAn "Judge" Carbcrry is an athletic si»e­cialist at Wilmington. Calif., which makss it handy for him to spand his leaves in Hollywood, where, at a recent premiere, he was the escort of Joan Leslie. I suppose this is one of his duties as an athletic specialist since these Hollywood premieres are getting rj.ther rugged-
The resignation of the coach at the University of California at Los Angeles has caused a con­siderable number of Notre Dame graduates to be mentioned- as possible coaches. Amongst these are Marty Brill, Jimmy Phelan, Slip Madican and Back Shaw. 
Onr Christinas open house was favored by the pres«ice of L—is Bcrarii* exclusive prescription pharmacist for the Hollywood big shots, as well as Vera -TeMT SickaiC 
Jae Sattacr* '19. depu^ cori>oration commis­sioner, was the mie issuinsr a pernut to BiO Caak. class of 1915. in ecmnection with the Hillview Oil Company, of which Cook is president. 
I recaved a Christmas card frc»n Al CastcUiBiy 
and was also favored with a visit friMn Lt. Nar­
man Bawcs. U.S. Navy, of the class of 1933. 
Bowes has been transferred to a Pacific Coast 
base. 
Lc* B. Ward 

NEW YORK dry 
Ja A LaTelfe. *28. 35 E. 51st St., Prea.; EA Beckman* 'IS, 49 S. Drive, Plandaaw, Se c 

The Universal Notre Dame Communion-break­fast of the club, held at the New York Athletic Club, Dec. ID. 1944, was addressed by Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, who had l:e3n celebrant of the Mass at the Lady Chrpel. St. Patrick's Cathedral. About a hundred were present at the breakfast. 
"Progressive education is responsible for much of the 'disintegration* in modem teachings," Father O'Donnell said. 
"The entirs structure of American education 
needs to be rebuilt, not on a new foundation but 
upon the old one." Father O'Donnell declared. 
"Tlie truth is. that some years ago too many 
schools went on a pedago^cal joyride. The crash 
was inevitable. . • . Ihe machine was jerry built: 
the flesigner was incompetent, and the driver was 
more interested in showing off than in the safety 
of his passengers." 
Alleging that a purely secular education "grad­ually dehumanized man himself," Father O'Don­nell added: "Please obsen'e that much of it has teen inspired by John Dewey. 
"One of the first steps in a return to the American tradition of education, it seems to me, is to re-sstablish in our colleges end universities curricula in which the liberal arts are taught with religion as the cornerstone of the program. 
"It seems to have taken the awful impact of a global war to bring home the realization that a great deal of what was carelessly called educa­tion was not education at all," Father O'Don­nell said. "At test, it wrs a superficial training that consistently and cumulatively failed to meet the problems of a society that is not composed of robots but of men and women endowed by their Creator with understanding and free will. This is not Christian. It is not American." 
Another speaker. Justice Juvenal Marchisio, president of American Relief for It:ily, Inc., said that the National Catholic Welfare Conference contributed 6.000.000 pounds of clothing to Italy, representing 94 percent of all contributed relief to the country. On leave from the Domestic Re­lations Court in New York. Justice Marchisio re­turned recently from Italy. 
RHdDE ISLAND AND SOUTHWBTERN MASSACHUSEHS 
Jmku J. MrlMtMhi. 'M. Marfn ttd„ Cam­keriaad Hm. B. L. Pm. ; BawO L. Hmt. '19. 4»3 S. Main St^ WamuMket. R. U Sec 

The club conducted a Communion-Breakfast on Dec. 10 with the following members present: President Jakn J. HcLaagUin, Vice-President Eaxcnc J. Marcaa. Treasurer Leo R. McAloan, 
24 
Secretary Rasull L. Hunt. Thomas S. Collins. Albert J. BfcAloon» Edward J. Crotty, Thomas Sepe, Comelins J. Shackett. J. Clement Grimes. 
Holy Communion was received in a body at the Cathedral of SS- Peter and Paul in Providence at the eight o'clock Mass. The proup then ad­journed to the Cro\\*n Hotel where breakfast was ser\*ed. 

A brief business session was conducted follow-ins the breakfast. Those present unanimously ap­proved the donation of a war bond to the Uni­versity and the donation of SlOO to the Providence College gymnasium fund. It was voted to hold Communion breakfasts more frequently as a means of bringing the sons of Notre Dame in this area together- War-time travel conditions have made it almost impossible to conduct regu­lar meetings, and the number of the club's mem­bers in the ser\*ice tended to keep the attendance at a minimum. 
It was decided that the next Sunday morning gathering would be held during the Easter season. 

The club has made plans for a serviceman's re­habilitation committee to aid those members of the club in. the armed forces when they are de­mobilized. 
The club was responsible for the attendance of over 1,200 persons at the N.D.-Dartmouth game and over 500 at the Army game. Club headquar­ters were set up at the Hotel Kenmore in Boston and the New Yorker in New York-
Bunny HcCormick, Paul LtlHs and Bemie Crimmins are now stationed at Melville, R. I., PT Boat Base. A word from them giving their rd-dresses would be appreciated by the writer. 
Russ3ll L. Hunt 



ST. LOUIS 
Jerome C. Arnold. '24, 7409 Arlington St.. lUcfamond Heights. Prrs.; Fr d C. Weber. Jr., '36, 6639 University Drive, Sec 

Fred McNeill, chairman of the ticket activity committee for 1944. carried this phase of the club's program to new heights, with special aid from Jim Hill and Paul Arnold. Dr. Fran Ken­nedy, Al RavmrJno. Bob Hellrung and Frank Amato were among the star salesmen. Proceeds from this activity, concluded on Nov. 13, were turned over to the Scholarship Fund Committee, consisting of Drs. Matthew Weis, Bert Coughlin and Vincent Crorrilla* and Messrs. Roland Dames and Valda Wrape. The average attendance at meetings held in connection with the activity was about 50. 
The club's second major activity of the fall season was the annual awarding of the Knute Rockne Memorial Trophy. The committee handling the award this time was made up of Lou Fchlis:, chairman. Frank Pollnow. Fred Weber and Al Rmvarino. Selection of the w-inner wns made by a committee of sports writers, high school foot­ball officials and radio sports announcers. The winner for 1944 was Beaumont High School of the Public School league-
The trophy was presented by Bob Kellj-. half­back on the 1944 N.D. team, at a dinner attended by 110 Notre Dame alumni and other friends of Notre Dame. It was accepted by the co-captains of the Beaumont team. Joe McGb'nn explained the purpose and significance of the trophy. Movies of the Great Lakes game were shown by Dr. Bert CoaKhtin. with comments by Bob Kelb-. 
All the club members were grieved by the death, on Dec 30, of the mother of Lou. Vince. Gene and Paml Fdilir. and they extend through the "Alumnus" their sincere sympathy. 
Fred Websr, Jr. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Hinkel Helps Italian Children Enjoy Christmas 
His One-Man Campaign Provides Tons of Soap and Candy in Rome 
(Ibe following stor>'. written by Inez Robb. "But so eloquent and touching was Major noted staff correspondent for International News Hinkel's appeal that the letters were passed from Ser\'ice. tells of the inspiring activities of Blajor hand to hand, read before clubs, schools and par­John V. Hinkel, '29, in behalf of Italian children. ties and in offices, factories and war plants. From Notre Dame alone, with gratifying aid "The major wrote, in part. *I want you to beg. 
from the "Scholastic" and innumerable students, borrow or steal all of the candy, chewing gum 
service and civilian, scores of packages were and soap that you can for my kids this Christ­
sent to Major Hinkel, and. through a special ap­mas. They are mostly from poor families, and 
peal in the "South Bend Tribune" many more poverty in Italy is synonymous with misery, trag­
went from elsewhere in the South Bend area. edy and suffering. If you could only see these 
—Eds.) Italian kids as we see them! Their pinched, hun­"New York.—^There is a Santa Claus in Italy gry faces reflect their misery of body and spirit and his name is a blend of America's GI Joe and more than anything else. Most of these children, John Q. Public. Thanks to both, an estimated especially those born in the last five or six years, 
100,000 of Rome's most wretched, poverty-stricken have never tasted candy.' children will know a little respite from misery 
" 'Each time I see one of these unhappy kids, Christmas Day. An amazing series of parties, 
I think of my own Mary Elizabeth and how for­oripinated by a compassionate American. Maj. 
tunate she and other American kids are.' John V. Htnkel. 37, former Washingtonian, and underwritten by innumerable Americans through­"Within a few days, his appeal spread over out the nation, will give thousands of Italian chil­the nation and started on its way to Italy a del­dren their first bit of Christmas cheer since the uge of candy and soap. The congregation of one war engulfed Europe-Catholic church alone sent a ton of candy. A Protestant church mailed three quarters of a ton "The parties will include one for 2,000 orphans 
of sweets. The University of Notre Dame, from in the Apostolic Chancellory of the Vatican and 
which Hinkel was graduated in 1929, sent pack­an even larger one for destitute children in 
ages by the hundreds. Rome's Royal Opera House. Other parties by the 
dozens will be held in poor neighborhoods. 

"Thousands of persons of whom Hinkel had never heard and who, in torn, had never heard 
"At his New York home today. Major Hinkel's of the major until they saw his letter, wrote l>eautiful. young wife. Elizabeth Joan Hinkel. and sent him candy and soap. told of her husband's inspiring one-man campaign 
to bring Christmas to Italy's children. "By the end of October, when the scope of America's response to his 20 requests dawned on 
"In the beginning. Major Hinkel hoped merely the major, he was stunned by its magnitude— to collect enough candy and soap to provide a and alarmed at the possible 'brass hat' reaction. Christmas treat for a few hundred children. On He went to Army authorities in Rome and asked September 22. the major wrote to 20 relatives their help. and close friends in America, asking them to send 
"The 'brass hats' and the Army postal system 

him five pounds each of soap and candy. Hie buckled down to help. A central storeroom was 
letters did not arrive in the United States until designated in Rome to hold the 'Hinkel cargo-' 
shortly before Oct. 15, overseas mailing deadline The major asked for volunteer helpers. Hundreds have given their spare time to collecting and sort­ing gifts. 
TWIN CITIES "Major Hinkel specified that the gifts must go, to Catholic. Protestant and Jewish children alike. 
Clarence G. Liemandt. ex. '32, S31 Nortk GI Joe. his heart always touched by the plight 
Western Bank Bids.. MInneapolia. Pns. ; of Italy's half-starved children, got interested in 
Ed Krick, Sec the project 
Vers* Rev. Vincent J. Flynn, president of St. 

"As a result there will also be a GI program of Thomas College, St. Paul, and Rev. John P. 
Christmas entertainment at every party. Lynch, C^.C , of Notre Dame, were special guests and speakers at the club Communion-breakfast in "Even thooRh the Sistine Choir is to sine and obsen-'ance of Universal Notre Dame Communion the Palatine Guard band to play at the Vatican Sunday on Dec 10. Father Lynch celebrated the party, GIs will famish the bulk of the enter­Mass. Local alumni of other Catholic colleges tainment at the Apostolic Chancellory. Lient. CoL were among the 50 who participated in the morn­Robert Martino of Silver Sprinff, Md., i^ to act 
as Santa Clans in Santa's traditional red suit ing's activities and to whom Father Flynn offered and lone white whiskers. 
the facilities of S t Thomas College for a future gathering of the same sort. A film of the foot­ball highlights of the 1943 season was shown at 
"Major Hinkel. who has been overseas for al­most 18 months, was wounded at Cassino and received the Purple Heart. After four months of hospitalization in Italy, Major Hinkel, who is the breakfast. 
The club's traditional Christmas party and dance on as one of the with the AMG (Allied Military Government), was 
 Dec. 30 was, usual, Twin returned to active duty. 
Cities principal social events of the holiday sea­son. A large share of the credit for the success of "It is the irony of fate that he has recently this party, and of many others, should go to the been assigned to a post in northern Italy and will Twin Cities Auxiliary, a feminine group associat­probably be unable to attend any of the Christmas ed with the local Notre Dame club. Meeting regu­parties for which he is responsible. 
larly each month, the club is comprised of 35 active members — and they're really active and " 'My husband has given up all hope of ever 
effective, according to Bud Liemandt, club presi­receiving his own personal Christmas gifts, since dent who says, "Really, the girls have been doing all the packages addressed to him are going to a a better job and are more active than we are." 
central depot in Rome.* Mrs. Hinkel said." 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Alice Rita Donohoue and Jcseph C. Spohr. Jr.. '42. 
Miss Jeanne Marie Calnon and Ens. Edwin A-Klarecki. ex. '43. 

Marriages 
Miss Lilly Marie Feild and Burt L. Roberts, ex. *16. recently. 
Miss Theresa A. ZeithamI and Jam:s A. Car­rico, *32. South Bend. Nov. 21. 
Miss Eva Lucille Stevens and Robert J. Klaibcr. Jr., ex. *35, Washinjrton, D. C, Jan. 20. 
Dr. Pearl Huffman and Dr. Boj- O. Scholz, '35. Moryanton, N. C. Oct. 7. Miss - Marianna HoIIencamp and William L. Stnick, *36. Dayton. O.. Jan. 27­
Miss Ann Fraser and 1st Lt. John E. Kelhy* Jr., '37, Dec. 31. 
Miss Lucille Tussey and George P. Wilson. '37. Santa Barbara, Calif., June 17. 
Miss Helen L. Matterman and John T. Boyle, '39, Sprinirfield. III. 
Miss Marj* DriscoII and Lt- (JB) Gerald G. Hogan. MO. Decatur. III.. Jan. 8. 
Miss Margaret Ann Murnane and Maj. Thomas 
P. Liston, '40, Chicat^o. Dec. 16. 
Miss Alberta Wilson and Charles J. O^hinski. Jr., *40, Woonsocket. R. I., Nov. 23. 
Miss Renee Catharine BafTa and Sgt- John J. Reddy. '40. Brooklyn, N. Y., Nov. 4. 
Miss Betty L. McCrea and John E. R^ith. *41. Notre E>ame. Dec 30. 
Miss Florence I. Molyneaux and Lt. Robert W. Harzrave. *42, San Francisco. Nov. 11. 
Miss Kathleen H. Casey and Ens. Donald G-Lei^, *42, South Bend, Jan. 6. 
Miss Rita Marie Bodensteiner and Harold E. Zimmer. Jr., '42 .Rochester, N. Y.. Nov. IS. 
Miss Julia Krukowski and Walter Ziemba. '43. Notre Dame. Jan. 6. 
Miss Norma Ruth Metzler and Victor R. Gray­son, *44, South Bend. Nov. 18. 
Miss Daphne May Dunn and Ens. Jsmes J. Mahoney. '44. Lon^c Beach. Calif.. Nov. 30. 
Miss Marjorie Moritz and Lt. Robert L- Dunne. Jr.. ex. '44, Notre Dame, Dec. 12. 
Miss June Home and AyS Jackie Coopsr, ex­'47. Los Anjieles. Calif.. Dec. 11. 

Births 
Mr. and Mrs. Thad J. Bcdnard. '27, announce the birth of Sara Jane. Sept. 9. 
Cmdr. and Mrs. John F. Robinson, *28, an­nounce the birth of Retnna Mary, Oct. 22. 
Lt- Col. and Mrs. Monty Tennes. '28. announce' the birth of Victoria Anne. Sept. 13. 
Lt. Col. and Mrs, Salvatore Bontempo, *32. an­nounce the birth of Thomas Joseph. Dec. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. James F. Shea, *33, announce the birth of Kevin James. 
Lt. (iif) and Mrs. Raymond W. Oakcs, '35, an­nounce the birth of a dauphter in October. 
Lt. and Mrs, Francis E. Schlatter. '35. an­nounce the birth of Steven Francis. July 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur F. Hnber, '36. announce the birth of Catherine Ida. Oct. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Wall. '36. announce the birth of Sheila, Dec. 6­
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Dillon, *37, announce the birth of Thomas James. Nov. 17. 
Dr. and Mrs. Francis W, Traynor, '37. announce the hirth of Dorothea Agnes. Nov. 24. 
Capt. and Mrs. Paul H. Anderson, *38. an­nounce the birth of Parker John, Dec. 31. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles- Borowski. '38, announce the birth of a daughter. Dec. 18. 
T/Sirt. and Mrs. Jeremiah J. Clifford, '38. an­nounce the hirth of Sharen Ann, Dec. 1. 
Lt. and- Mrs. Timothy William Tnnney. '38. announce the birth of Timothy W.. Jr., Dec. 12. 
Sp. (w) Ijc and Mrs. William L. Piedmont, '39. unnounce the birth of twin daughters. Nov. 20­
Mr. and Mrs. John E. Ryan, '39, announce the birth of a daughter, Sept. 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. George F. Schlsadecker, '39. an­nounce the birth of John Patrick. Dec. 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Thomas, *39, announce the birth of Elizabeth Mary. Jan. 10. 
Lt. and Mrs. Vincent A. Doyle, '40, announce the birth of Vincent Denis, Dec 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene P. Klicr. '40. announce the birth of John Paul. Dec. 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph C. Perkins, *40, announce the birth of a son, Christmas Day,. Dec- 25. 
Lt. and Mrs. James A. Conley, *4I. announce the birth of James Michael. Dec. 19. 
Lt. (jg) and Mrs. William R. Hawes, '41. an­nounce the birth of Susan Mary. Oct. 26. 
Lt. (jg) and Mrs. John F. Guillanme, '42, an­nounce the birth of Mary Margaret. Oct. 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. William J- Minges, '42. announce the Urth of William Clark. Dec 31. 

Deaths 
George Rudge, Jr.. Youngstown. O.. a membe! of the class of '75 at Notre Dame and one of the University's oldest former students, died on Dec 
24. He was 91 years old. 
Prominent in both Catholic affairs and civic affairs, Mr. Rudge was long one of Youngstown's best known citizens. A member of the Third Order of St. Francis, the Holy Name Society, the St- Vincent de Paul Society and a fourth degree member of the Knights of Columbus, Mr- Rudge was also, for 10 years, a member of the local Board of Education, a founder and director of the Fre.<h Air Camp and a director of the Youngs­town Hospital Association. Before his retirement, 
he was head of the Enterprise Boiler Co. 
Mr. Rudge is survived by two daughters, a si:^ ter and a brother. The brother is Rev. Eugene Rudge, S.J. 
Dan C. Brewer, '89, widely known attorney of Clarksdale. Miss., died suddenly from a heart at* tack on Dec 29. He was 72 years old-
With the exception of a few years w^hen he traveled with a large circus as a law*yer, Mr. Brewer had resided in Clarksdale for almost half a century. At one time he served as district at­torney of the eleventh judicial district. 
Surviving Mr. Brewer are his wife and a daughter-
Martin J. Schnnr, Goshen. Ind.. a member of the class of *95. died on Dec. 27 from pneumonia. He was buried in Goshen on Dec 29, following a solemn requiem Mass for which the deacon was Rev. Stanislaus F. Lisewski, C-S.C, representing the University. 
Over the many years since he was a Notre Dame student. Mr. Schnur was steadfastly one of the University's most devoted alumni. Residing in a community where Notre Dame alumni are few, he still was an ardent member of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, traveling the many miles from Goshen to South Bend and the campus to attend innumerable club functions- He was a regular attendant before World War II at the alumni reunions which featured the annual commencements. 
Mr. Schnur had for nearly 40 years been an employee of the Goshen post office, serving as as­sistant {>ostmaster for the past 27 years. Said the Goshen postmaster. Edgar D. Xx)gan. at his death: "He gave his all. including his life, to this . post office." 
Surviving Mr. Schnur are his wife, a daughter and a sister. 
John C. Shea, Dayton. O., attorney as well as founder and former dean of the University of Dayton Law School, died recently in Dayton after an illness of 12 years. Mr. Shea was a student at Notre Dame at the turn of the century, then re­ceived his Master of Laws degree from the Uni­versity in 1917. 
Mr. Shea was one of Dayton's outstanding citi­zens. An organizer of and leader in Corpus Christ! parish, he was also grand knight of the local Knights of Columbus and brigadier general of the Knights of St. .John. In the private prac­tice of law he was for many years associated with the late Henry L. Femeding. ex. '96. 
From 1914 to 1921 Mr. Shea served Dayton as first assistant city law director and from 1917 to 1921 was special counsel in the Ohio state d£­vision of banks. He was president of the Dayton Bar Association in 1921-22. At the University of Dayton he w-as dean of the law schotrf from 1921 to 1931. In 1932 Mr. Shea was- nominated for the judgeship of the court of appeals but was forced to withchraw when he suffered a stroke. 
Surviving Mr. Shea are his wife and two daughters. 
The "Alumnus" has only recently received word of the death, on Dec 20. 1943. of Thomas L. Don­nelly, '04, Bay City, Mich., for many years a prominent civil engineer and a veteran of World War I, wherein he *«rved as a crptain in the Engineer Reser\-e Corps. 
Mr. Donnelly's practice of his profession cov­ered many years and many important positions: railroad work. '\'aluation work, construction work, private practice and consulting practice. Before AVorld War I, he ser\'ed as assistant professor of civil engineering in the University of Detroit. 
Surviving Mr. Donnelly are his wife, a son qnd two daughters. 
James E. Deety, '10, Indianapolis, former vice-president and, later, director of the Alumni Asso­ciation and long one of the University's most de­voted alumni, died on Dec. 31 from a recurring heart ailment. He was buried on Jan. 2 after services in SS. Peter and Paul cathedral at which Most Rev. Joseph E. Ritter. archbishcp of Indian­apolis, officiated. Rev. John O'Connell. C.S.C.. represented the University. 
Mr. Deery had for many years been one of Indianrpolis' best known citizens, sen-ing at var­ious time as deputy prosecutor, city judge, city attorney, city €»rporation counsel and city con­troller, in addition to carr>-ing on a private prac­tice of law and assisting actively in the Demo­cratic party. 
A fourth degree member of the Knights of Columbus and a former Rrand knight and former district deputy of the order, he was secretar>' of the National Council of Catholic Men from 1922 to 1932, a trustee of the Am3r:can Catholic His­torical Society and national president of the An­cient Order of Hibernians in 1919-23. 
Mr. Deery*s wife and three daughters sun'ive him. 
"Sam was a superlative example of a great Notre Dame man. His greatness was himself, un­attended by any position in life which in the confusion of living is called success." 
Thus did Fred L. Steers, '11. Chicago, a close friend of Samael M. "Rosy" Dolan, C.E. '10. write when he heard of Sam's death on Dec. 29 in Cor\'allrs. Ore., at the age of 60. Death fol­lowed a stroke suffered some 10 days earlier. 
Sam stood out on the Notre Dame campus not onlj' for his football ability—he won four mono­grams as a guard in 1906-07-08-09—but more for his character and charm. Joining the faculty of Oregon State College soon after his graduation, he remained there as a teacher of civil engineer­ing until his death. He had assisted with the foot­ball coaching in the college, acting as head coach in 1911 and 1912. 
But it was as a football official that Sam be­came most widely known on the Pacific coast, 

" serving in that capacity for 29 years, until he retired in 1939. He officiated in some of the Pa­cific Coast Conference's biggest games and in Rose Bowl games and was known to t e so fair that on one occasion the University of Oregon requested his ser^-ices in its annual game v.-ith Oregon State, even though Sam was himself an Oregon State professor and former coach. 
Surviving Sam are his wife, two sons, four grandchildren and two sisters. Father Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., president of the Universitj- of Portland, assisted at the funeral in Cor\'allis on Jan. 2. 
(Additional information aboiit Sam Dolan will be found under the '10 news in this issue.) 
Thomas V. Craven. '14. New Orleans, died on Oct 22 according to recent word from his daugh­ter. No details are available. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Wilmer O. Finch, *16. Indianapolis, died on 
Dec. 5 after an illness of several days. Sur\'ivin9 
him are his wife, two sons. Sgt. Russell and Lt. 
Robert, both of the AAF, and a daughter. Jane. 
Louis Keifer, '16, of Terre Haute, Ind.. is a first 
cousin. 

The funeral Mass was in SS. Peter and Paul 
Cathedral. Indianspolis, with Fred Mahaffey. *17, 
as one of the pallbearers. 

Wilmer had recently been associated with Acous­ticon Institute, Indianapolis. Previously he was with the advertising department of the Indiana Bsll Telephone Co. 
Thomas F. Hoban, *18. Elgin. 111., outstanding in Notre Dame activities for many years, died on Dec. 17 in Elgin as the result of a heart attack which he suffered several days before. 
For 20 years Tom had been associated with the Chicago Title & Trust Co. and in 1941 was elected a vice-president of the firm, after ser\-ing for two years as general attorney- By si>ecial appoint­ment of then governor Henry Horner, he served for several months in 1936 and 1937 as judge of the Elgin city court. 
Tom was in the Na\'>' in World War I as a lieutenant and w-as one of the organizers of the American Legion post and the Na\*y League in Elgin. Member of many clubs both in Chicago and Elgin, he had ser\-ed as president of the Elgin County Club, as president of the Catholic Charities of the Rockford, III., diocese and as ex­alted ruler of the Elgin Elks. He was also presi­dent of the Kane County Title Co., Geneva. III. 
Surviving Tom are his wife, two sons and a daughter, and his mother. 
The "Alumnus" has ju=t received word of the death on Feb. 9. 1944, of E. Brown DonohHe, ex. '19, prominent internationally as a civil engineer. 
Coming to Notre Dame Jn 1915 from Thermopo­olis, Wyo.. he remained for two years then sarved in France in World War I. In subsequent years until 1937 he held many important state highway positions in Wyoming and Montana and later was chief engineer of the Montana State Water Con-ser\'ation Board as well as state engineer. In 1924 he had been graduated from the University of Wisconsin with a B.S- in Civil Engineering. 
Serving as project manager for the design of a large army camp at West Yellowstone, Hont, Mr. Donohue was later employed by the Pleasant-ville Constructors (of which Foley Brothers, Inc.. familiar to many Notre Dame men, was a part) cs assistant general manager and eventually gen­eral manager of a i*ast construction project for the United States government in Nassau, B-'ha­mas. For his superb handling of this project he was commended warmly by many, including the Duke of Windsor, governor general of Bahamas, who had formed a warm attachment for Mr. Donohue. 
Mr. Donohue's wife and two sons sur\*ive him. 
Harrj- J. Aact, e.x. '26, Maplewood. N. J., presi­dent of the Colonial Concrete Co.. which he found­ed in West Orange, N. J., in 1933, and former New Jersey state handball champion, died on Dec. 11 at the age of 38. He attended Mt. St. Mary's CoUeee in New Jersey before coming to Notre Dame. 
Harrj- is. survived by his wife, two sons, his mother, a brother and a half-brother. 
John F. Lindenbsrv, '32. Hutchinson. Minn., died on Dec. 23. Clarence G. Liemandt. president of the Twin City-Notre Dame Club, and John Doyle and Arnold Klein represented the club at the funeral in Hutchinson on Dec. 26. 
John was one of his city's outstanding business men, having served recently a president of the Hutchinson Chamber of Commerce and partici­pated otherwise in community affairs. He is sur­vived by his wife and three children. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to: Paul Foearty. *17. on the death of his mother: DaWd Van Wallace, ex. '27, on the death of bis father; Paul C. Bartholomew, '29. on the death of his father; Emil Telfel, *31, on the death of his father; J. Reffis Kuhn, '32, on the death of his mother: John D. Hocan. '42, on the death of his brother: Ens. John B.. *43, and Ens. Walter L., *44* Bremer, on the death of their father; James F. Casey, '44. on the death of his father; Edward Banyzewski, ex. *44, on the death of his father. 

Personals 
 J. A. BlacNaman, '17. 1890-99 Rev. 
Saint Joseph's Mineral Baths, Mount Clemens, Midi. 
Sherman Steele, '97. Chicago, professor of law nt Loyola University since 1920, was appointed hearing commissioner of the OPA in November. 
One of the men recently named by His Holiness. Poi>e Pius Xn. to be a Knight Commander of the Order of St. Gregory the Great, was William E. MonUTon, *98, director of the N.C.W.C. Legal Department. The appointment w-as in recognition of long and distinguished service on the head­quarters staff of the N.C.W.C. Washington. D. C. 
Father John MacXamara, '97. had a serious heart attack on New Year's morning, but fortu­nately Father is recovering now and is resting at St. Joseph Hospital, Mt. Clemens. Mich. 
Rear Admiral Robert Giffen, ex. '99, who has since been promoted to vice admiral, commanded the Massachusetts during the invasion of Casa­blanca, according to information recently printed. 
1900-04 
Robert E. Proctor, *04, Hont« BuUdinv, Elkhmrt, Ind. 
Among the Notre Dame-Northwestern game guests was Georce HoUender. Pittsburgh, who returned to the University for the first time since he left Holy Cross seminary in 1896 for a busi­ness career. "I could hardly believe my eyes," Mr. Hollender said, "the new buildings, the develop­ment of Notre Dame is wonderful. I have a grandson who is three years old. I have resolved that he shall attend Notre Dame." 
It was a pleasure to see Robert E. (Bobby) Lynch, *03, Green Bay. Wis., at the Notre Dame-Great Lakes game. 
For the first time in many years, Leo Robinson, minim 1900-04. visited Notre Dame when he at­tended the N.D.-Great Lakes game. 
G. A. FarabauKh, '04. South Bend, was elected president of the St. Joseph County Bar Associa­tion on Dec. 8. Arthur May. '18, was elected vice-president, and Robert BonDnrant. *34, was re­elected secretary. 
1905-09 
Rev. Thomas E.  Barke, C.S.C, 
'07. Notre Dmme, Ind. 
Excerpts from WillUm "Jmmie" Jamieson's letter (from Jamieson, Inc.. institutio:i 'supplies. 62 E. Lake St.. Chicago), to members of the 1905 class; 
"I taught in colleges for 18 years. Practiced law. was in the investment banking field, now since 1923 in the business indicated at the head 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
of this letter. Family of four girls and four boys, the latter aJI in the armed forces. At present six grandchildren, who promise to keep my dear wife and me from getting old." 
From Dan Jtfnrphy, '05. 20-1 B. Arcadia. Peoria, 111., in response to Jamie's letter: 
"I. too. practiced law a few years, then re­turned to farming until 1941. , . . For the past couple of years I've been in public welfare work, being now employed in the Peoria County office of the Illinois Public Aid Commission. 
"I've been married to the same little Irish woman for 28 years. We have two sons . . . both in the Navy somewhere in the Pacific area. The two girls are students at Webster College, Web­ster Grove?, Mo." 
And from Earl Gmber, Frankfort Ind.. to Jamie: 
"Since leaving the campus, my nose has been held to the grindstone of the law. The wheel, having turned now for almost 40 years, there is not much left of my nose. In 1940. I thought I had finally succeeded in arranging a flowery, path for the balance of my days. I was successful in bringing a young man to my office of outstanding character and an exceptionally good lawyer: with the understanding that I should be free to roam as I should see fit. 
"Prior to his coming, for several years I had been leaving my office in the charge of my sec­retary and spending three months in the Florida sunshine; of course those months were delight­ful, but still I necessarily had to keep in contact with the office and I really was not free. After this young man came. I really enjoyed myself in Florida, as I was able to forget I had my offi(»: but April 7. last, placed a barrier in this path of roses, as he was taken into the service. And again I am back, thinking of the words of Col­onel Hoynes; 'The law is a jealous mistress.' 
"About a year ago I had some legal business in Chicago and had as my associate, my old friend, Francis McKeever, I was there on several occa­sions and We reminisced and I had the pleasure of getting information concerning some of our old friends. If I remember correctly. Bernard Fahy was in our class. One year while I was driv­ing to Florida. I went out of my way to pass through Rome, Ga. I inquired about him and was able to locate him and had a very peasant visit with him. He inquired about you." 
Alumni of his e m will be especially pleased to hear of the serious consideration that is being given in the papers, as this is written, to the ap­pointment of Frank Shaughnessy, now president of the International League, to the presidency of the National League in the event th^t Ford Fn'ck. National League president, succeeds the late Judge Landis. In a recent letter to Walter Kennedy, '34. publicity director at Notre Dame. Shag said that five of his eight sons are in dif­ferent branches of the armed forces, both Cana­dian and United States- There is also one Shaugh­nessy daughter. 
 Bfidiael L. Moriarty, 8215 S t 
Clair Ave., Cleveland, O.* 

1910 Rev. 
When Fred Steers, 'II. Chicago, heard of the death of Sam Dolan (see "Deaths." this issue) he wrote as follows about his close friend: 
"The death of Sam Dolan brings thoughts to mind which have recurred to me many times since my student days at Notre Dame. Sam was a su­perlative example of a great Notre Dame man. His greatness was himself, unattended by any position in life which in the confusion of living is called success. 
"Hy thoughts of Sam have always been remind­ers of a superlative example of a fine Christian and a cultured gentleman. As a youth. Sam had a rough and ready, hairy and uncouth physical appearance, through which sparkled a personality of culture, refinement and charm belying one's initial impression of him. He was loved by the whole campus. His personal charm was exhibited on the football field to the confusion of his op­ponents. 
"In his mature ye:;rs Nature's Architect chis­elled his fine character into his face and figure-At the silv.er anniversary reunion of his class he was accosted with 'Sam, you've actually be­come good looking.* And he was. The good looks that only a sterling character and a full life cut into a man's face and figure. 
"Sam was well known in college circles through­out the far west- He was ever mindful of Notre Dame, and as an emissary of good will for his alma mater he was unsurpassed. Sam's reputation as a good Notre Dame man is one of which we can all be proud­
"A while back my daughter's husband was as­signed to an army camp near Corvallis. The fine fellowship and courtesies e.xtended to them by Sam and his fine family will be long remembered. 
"Yes. truly, he was a Notre Dame man in the fullest sense." 
m
l Fred L. Steers, 110 S. Dearborn St , 
I Suite 1220. Chicaco, lU. 
L t CoL Otto Probst, is now in the Office of the Inspector General. Washington, D- C , 2145 "C" St, N.W. 
 R. Byrne, Univenltr Lttraiy, 
Kotre Damcw Ind. 


1913 Paal 
• On his way to N.Y.C. on business. Keene Fita­patrick, San Francisco, stopped here long enough to see the Notre Dame-Great Lakes game- It was the first game he had attended here in years. 
MfMt Rev. Francis J. Spellman, archbishop of New York, bought the first bond in the sixth war loan campaign in New York State from Bill Cot­ter, director of the commerce and industry divi­sion of the War Finance Committee­
 H. Hayes, 642 Third ATC., 


1914 
Frank 
Chula Vista, Calif. 

CoL John Laird, native San Antonian, has as­sumed command of the San Antonio air technical service command at Kelly Field. Kelly Field is the largest aviation-supply base in the world. John is making his third tour of duty.at KeKy. having received his wng s there in 1921 and returned in 1931. He was a student at Notre Dame for a year and is a veteran of overseas service in both World Wars. 
A review of the "Life of John Boyle O'Reilly," patriot, editor and publisher of the "Boston Pilot," whose centenary was recently obssrved in Boston, was given by attorney Frank Hocan, at the Hibernian meeting held in December at the Knights of Columbus home in Fort Wayne, Ind. In January Cliflf Ward, '23. spoke on "The Irish as Newsiiaper Men." 
 E. Sanfocd. 52» N. f ifcf w«rt 


1915 
Junet 
An., CUcaco, ID. 

Rev. Patrick H. Dobn, C.S.C.. pastor of St. Patrick's church. South Bend, is the new presi­dent of the South Bend Community Fund. Inc. Father Dolan has been an active worker in the Fund for the past four years. 
 J. V«B. Z«( E. Tatt St. SMth 


1917 B. 
Since Novemfcer. 1940. PUl Sweet, Bourbonnais. III., has been deputy collector of internal reve­nue, with headquarters in Kankakee. III. 
Ml Dtif«k 

1918 
Knawie* B. Swtk, Notre Dame professor of geology, received an invitation from the Pentvian government to attend a meeting of the Peruvian congress of mining held in Lima. Peru, in Jana­ary. 
 CiB«lr. Clarence W.' Baafer. 

1919 Lt. 
V,S.N.K., Kaaai 2N«7, Bwcaa, Sap­idiea and ActamntM, Waskincton, D. C. 

Lt. Catdr. Chick Badei'a new address is Navy Department. Washinston, D. C , Boom 2N07, Bureau. Supplies and Accounts. 
 B. Ward. 1«12 Black Bldr^ L M 
AngeZca, Cafif. 


1920 Lea 
Father Stanislans Liaemki, C.S.C^ . was the principal speaker on Jan. IS at the meeting of the South Bend Catholic Forum. Father Lisewski's topic was "The Polish Stuation and Commun­ism." He is a professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, but once lived in Poland, taught there, and was on intimate terms with government offi­cials and the hierarchy. Dick Kaczraarek. *40, was guest toastmaster­
 W. D«^, UH Tcrafaul T«irar, 


1921 Daa 
ClerelaKd, O. 

Dick McConaidc is advertising manager for the American Hoist and Derrick Company in St. Paul and resides at the St. Paul Athletic Club. 
Dr. Thaaiair Skeca practices in New Toric City, and specializes in tuberculosis. Tom was married on July 5. 1941, is the proud father of two daugh* ters and expects a new arrival in the spring. 
Jae HcGraw, l^ilsa, was one of the welcome visitors on the campus for the Great I*akes game. 
Frank Casiklin, South Bend, was appointed first assistant attorney general of Indiana, in charge of criminal and juvenile appeals, in Indi­anapolis recently. Frank has been in the attorney general's office in Indianapolis for the past two years. 
1922 
Germli Adw. 1» Oorklnr BMd, RaA* eater, N. T. 
From Kkl Aske: Gcarce and Paal HcDcrmott of St Paul, and Dae Wallace Kreiffkkawn of Minneapolis, along with the class secretary, were the 1922 represen. tatives at the N. D. Communion Sunday gather. ing at the Church of the Nativity. St. Paul, on Dec 10. 
A Christmas card was received from Lt. Cmdr. Jokn KcOey, USNR. who is on duty in the At­lantic John specifically mentioned he would be very pleased to hear from some of his classmates. The Alumni Office will gladly furnish complete address. 
Dr. and Mrs. Henry Atkinson of Green Bay, Wis., had a two weeks vacation trip and visit to New York in November- Dr. Hank is the number one fan of the Green Bay Packers football team. The Atkinsons have two sons, ages 16 and 11. 
Wilfred Dwj-er, of London. O.. attended the an­nual furniture -showinir in Chicajio in January, but no word was received from our other furni­ture mafoiate. Eddie Byrne, of Natchez, Miss. 
Capt. Eugene Kennedy, USA, is a troop e:^cort officer with headquarters at Camp Beale. Calif-Our sympathy is extended to Ray Koams, of Terre Haute, in the desth of hi? mother. 
The first speaker at a one-day conclave of the Indiana Bankers Association in Indianapolis in November, was Aaron Hu^uenard. South Bend attorney and president of the Indiana State Bar Association. Another speaker at the same meet­ing was Floyd Scarcr> "ZS. vice-president and tiust officer of the First Bank & Trust Co., of South Bend.. 
Lt. PanI KaKle is a Naval aviator with an FPO address out of San Francisco. Paul's p3acetime business is the A. T. & T. Co.. N.Y.C. 
Former Senator D. Worth Clark. Idaho, has entered a lejral partnership in Washinjrton, D.C.. with Thomas G. Corcoran, one of the capital's most prominent lawyers. The nev.-firm is ex­pected to si)ecialize in South American business. 
1923 
Paul H.  Castner, 26 Hoyt Ave., New 
Canaan, Conn. 

Repair of battle-dama^ied B-17 Flying Fortress bombers for further assaults on the Nazi war machine is the duty of the sub-depot of an Eighth Air Force Bomber Station in England, of which Major Kay Mead, Rochester. N. Y.. is en­gineering officer- Ray was formerly managing director of his own firm, Charles P. Mead & Son.s of Rochester. 
Tom Lee and Perc Wilcox are still associated with the Northern States Power Comiiany in Minneapolis. Such was the word that Kid Ashe, '22, sent to the Alumni Office after his recent stay in the Twin Cities. 
LT. COL. JOHN R. FLYNN 
Promotion of Major John R. Flynn, '23, post intelligence officer at Lowry Field, Colorado, to the rank of lieuten­ant colonel was announced in November by the War Department. John, whose home is Shaker Heights, O., is a veter­an of World War I. He and Mrs. Flynn and their 11-year-old son reside in Denver. 

 F. Hayes. 393 7th Ave., Room 1315, 


1924 J. 
New York City. 

Ray Dohr, Appleton, Wis., a lieutenant colonel in the Army, has been overseas 28 months (with an APO out of N.Y.C). 
P . Hnrley, AFD, American Red 1925 John 
Cross, Camp Patrick Henry, Va. 
From John Hurley: 

Harold Watson, in addition to sending in a check to Jim Armstrong, says in part: 
"If the check enclosed herein will be of any assistance to you. the Association may have it with my compliments, and with the expression of regret that I cannot make it more. 
"In our over-all contributions of the past and present, we probably think that Notre Dame is less needy of financial support than others. I have thought so. and for that reason have regarded the University slightingly, in fact, you have been ig­nored in favor of those whom I felt required as­sistance. 
"Now that I have put you into the picture, you will probably stay there, and in the future better things may be expected of me." 
Thanks. Harold. Maybe others have felt the same w-ay, end here's hoping they turn - over a nev.- leaf in '45. "The Senator," as we called him in the old days, is state agent of the Security In­surance Co.. 125 E. Wells St., Milwaukee, Wis. 
Another insurance man (and namesake). Bill Hurley, is district manager of the Equitable Life Assurance Society in Saginaw. Mich. Bill writes "I am still in the insurance business as you can see—now over 15 years with the same company. It begins to look as if I would never be president-Business has been good. Its only drawback is the continual quest for new men, and naturally they are scarce. There is nothing in the way of activi­ties, but the tempus surely fugits. I have had a few words with Tom VanAarle occasionally, and Joe Friske, now a captain in the Air Corps, based at Romulus near Detroit. I hope we can make up our 20th anniversary at some future date under more pleasant circumstances." 
Jim Wrape is still practicing lav.* in Memphis and also has offices in Washington. D. C Jim, in his letter to Armstrong: "I received John Hurley's letter, and it reminded me of something that I had been intending to do, and I am at­taching hereto my check, which I would appreci­ate your delivering to the 'Second Annual Fund* to the credit of the class of 1925." 
Jim Wrape sent me a copy of his letter to Notre Dame and added these words. "Your letter was an appropriate reminder. I'm afraid we all think too little about our responsibilities." 
Thanks for everything. Jim! 

Another line from Ben Kesting, "This is one damn Democrat who is one jump ahead of you. since I sent my contribution to Armstrong on Dec. 5." 
Nice going. Ben. I will answer your two letters if this war ever slows up. 
After one year with the Red Cross in the Army it looks like I w-ill soon have a Navy assign­ment, and that's all I c^n say about it for the moment-
Lt. Cmdr. Bill Cemey, South Bend, was home i-ecently for a brief visit. He returned to his Seattle, Wash., station. Leo Boettinser, formerly of St. Cloud. Minn., is now located in Watertown. 
N. Y., at 1161 State St- Dr. Charlie and Mrs. Guth. ElyriE, O., took time out to attend the Notre Dame-Great Lakes game. Charlie is presi­dent of the Alumni A^^sociation of the Ohio Col­lege of Chiropody. 
Harry Stuhldreher, University of Wisconsin athletic director and football coach, was in No­vember granted a four months leave of absence. Harry had been asked by the special sarvice divi­sion of the war department to accompany a dele­gation of athletic specialists ovei-seas to demon­strate and assist in the promotion of sports among ser\'ice men. At the latest report, however, he was still in this country, making practically innumerable speeches in Wisconsin and Michigan. 
A letter from Jack Kane, assistant U. S. at­torney, Cleveland, informed the "Alumnus" that Don Miller had bean elected president of the Cleveland chapter of the Federal Bar Association, which em'uraces the northern district of Ohio, which is the entire north half of the state. 
John Morgan is in Indianapolis at 6449 River­view Drive. His father died in 1937. 
1926 
Victor F. Leramer, Box 661, Ironwood, Mich. 
Two visiting N. D. '26 men (at least) took in the Notra Dame-Great Lakes game: SrSgt. Paul Broderick and Gerr>' Smith, manager. Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance C^., Kansas City, Mo., who was enroute to Rochester, N. Y. 
Allen Travis, who was in service and receivetl an honorary discharge, is working in a defense plant in the Calumet region of Indiana, for the duration. 
Art Scheer. South Bend, who ended his third term as St. Joseph Countj* prosecutor in Decem­ber, and his brother Ed, '39, formed a law firm, with ofHces in South Bend. 
From Vic Lemmcr: 

J. Vincent Soissons, of the West Penn Power Co., Connelsville. Pa., sends a Christmas greet­ings, stating that, "we're all fine . . . just get­ting old . . . our kids keep our thinking young. . -. The kids are Joe and Nancy." 
Lt- Jay Hasenich, USNR. who can play "every instrument in the band and orchestra," is still headquartering at the Shelton Hotel. New York City, according to his Christmas greeting. 
1927 
Joseph M. Boland, Station WSBT. South Bend, Ind. 
From Joe Boland: About time, I can hear you say—yes: and it's about time some of you brethren took pen in hand to epistle a bit of news this way. There can be only as much reading matter here as you supply. 
The holidays brought Johnny Nyikos home to South Bend, from his job as assistant district manager with General Motors, Chevrolet Division. at Syracuse. N. Y- Johnny's report is good . . . and with it. he sends his best to ever>'one, along with an invitation to call or see him if your travels take you through Syracuse. It's 1022 Wadsworth, Syracuse, N. Y-
Hcnry "Gerry" Lc Strance (230 X. Michigan Ave.. Chicago 1) visited Ken Qualley, the hos­teler, at the latter's Holfmann Hotel here in the Bend over the holidays . . . and brought with him little news of the Chicago contingent, whom Gerry says he seldom sees becausa his^their work seems to keep both sides occupied. 
But a previous mention of Le Strange in this column inspired Stan Peltier to write, from the Macomb County Laboratory at Mt. Clemens, Mich. .. . 93 N. Gratiot Ave- Stan's chemist-bacteriologist there . . . and he writes that the 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 29 
issue of the "Alumnus" which Kave him inspira­tion came to him from Van Wallace of Mt. Clem­ens, who hands out more inspiration than that every day. with his courageous outlook en life from the bed he'-s occupied for 20 years. The sympathy of the class is extended to Van on the recent death of his father. 
In the somewhat restricted Boland circle, broad­casting travel brouKht a meetinj? with ex-Profes­sor "Ted" Rourke. of our time at N.D. He came in to Boston for the Dartmouth-Notre Dame jfame. lookin^r hale and hearty, and still teach­ing school—l^ut where, this lackadaisical reporter knows not. Maybe Ted or his friends can fill us in on that. 
The Pittiburgh-Notre Dame trip brought a meeting with Pinky Martin. Gene Edwards, and Fritz Wilson . . . along with Clayt Leroax. All had good reports . . . Pinky in USO work: Wilson still the dashing couterier for men ; and Edwards —you got me, chums: the ol* red-head will have to put it in writing . . . along with current ad­dress. 
The Illinois and Navy trips were made too fast to allow time for pleasurable meetings such as those mentioned—brief as they were; but at At­lanta, ran into Tom Lieb and Lt. Cmdr. Rex EnrJKht, remembered for their many friends in the '27 class. Tom is head coach at the Univer­sity of Florida, and Re.\ was stationed at Georgia Pre-Flight. 
Vince McNally has resigned his post as back­field coach at Holy Cross College, up Worcester way, to become east coast scout and representa­tive for the San Francisco entry in the recently-formed AIl-American Football Conferenca, the pro­fessional league of which Lt. Cmdr. Jim Crowley has been named post-war commissioner. Vince can be reached at his family manse—2209 E. Cum­berland St.. Philadelphia. —• which reminds me I should write the guy! 
Joe Benda spent a highly successful season as assistant to Bull Donelli. with the National Foot­ball League Cleveland Rams—the two of them pulling a surprise act on the rest of the league by producing the best club the Rams have had in years. Ben's back on his job as coach-faculty man at St. John's University. Collegeville. Minn. 
Otherwise, nothing new or exciting has hrp­pened in this peaceful Bend of the St. Joe. For no good reason, the names of Walter **Red" Smith, sports editor of the Philadelphia "Record." comes to mind; and Joe Breis, doing a column in a Pittsburgh paper. Must be something psychic— maybe those guys have a bit of news or three that could decorate this column when next it comes up for air. 
Happy New Year, '27! 
From Major Johnnie Petrone, in Nov.. 1944: 
"Hello! I'm in Belgium—resting for the past few days. Just came out of Holland. Have been here since shortly after D-day, having been in England before that. Saw Major Richtarsic yes­terday. Bean all through France. Been working \ery hard. As you will know, field hospitals are the most forward hospitals in the Army—it's rough going and hard—averaging 12 to 16 hour^ a day in the operating room. We are strictly under canvas—and handle only non-transportable wounded men. as belly and chest injuries. 
"Yes, I'm married—have a little boy—2>y^ years old. Would like to enroll him now at Notre Dame. Take care of it for me. Best regards to everyone." 
1st Lt. Frank Penderffast is historical officer of the area at the Fairfield Air Technical Service Command. Patterson Field. Fairfield. O. 
1928 
Lmils F. Buckley, 4481 MscArlkar Bhrd., Washington. D. C. 
From LoD Buckley: Father GalliKan wrote that he would say Mass for the living and deceased members of the *28 class and the deceased faculty members mentioned in this column in December. We appreciate this. Father, and are looking forward to seeing you at our reunion after the war. 
Larry CaUiney dropped a note at Christmas. He is now living in Rutland. Vt., and working in the Rutland Savings Bank. I was very sorry to hear of the death of Larry's father in September. 
It was good to receive Christmas canls from John Fontana and Bemie Garber. Bernie inquired as to when our next class reunion will be heW. Bob Kirby'a letter of Dec. 15, which you all re­ceived, measured up to the old Kiri;y standards and deser\'es as good a respon.'^ as you have given my requests for news. 
Lt. George Couo'. USNR. and his wife are in Washington after spending some time at the U.S. Naval Air Station. Elizabeth City, N. C. George has been transferred to the Bureau of Aeronau­tics. Department of Contract Termination. 
Frank Donovan was in Washington recently on business for his company, the Kaydon Corp., Muskegon. Mich. Bill Jones and I enjoyed a fine session with him. 
Much to my surprise. I discovered after having telephone conversations for over a year with Major Heinz, that he is Jim Heinz of Selma. Ala., who was with our class in Freshman Hall in 1924-25. Major. Heinz is the Signal Corps Labor Officer. Office of the Chief Signal Officer. Army Service Forces, and is located in the Pentagon BIdg. Jim is married and living here with his family. 
Barry Mahoney's sister noticed that Joe Ger­aghty inquired in this column last month about his whereabouts, so sent along a note advising that Barry joined the U.S.N, three years ago and is now a lieutenant in the South Pacific. His wife and two daughters reside in California. It was also mentioned that Justin McCarthy is in the sheep growing industry. 
I was in New York City recently on a brief trip and saw Frank Galardy as he was waiting in line to be served at a fish house. Yes, it was Friday. 
Frank J. KeUy wrote from Lee, Mass.. where he is with his father in the furniture business. They are obser\'ing the 50th anniversary of fam­ily ownership in the business. Frank has four daughters and a son. Frank mentioned that he sees Jack Rourke. '29, who now has three daugh­ters and lives in Cheshire. Conn. 
Joe Morrissey responded to my request for news with a letter from the King Mfg. Co., Cincinnati. 
O. The only information contained about him­self was that he has three boys and one girl. Joe writes as follows; 
"During the Christmas holidays, his honor, now a captain, Joseph Kinneary. paid his home town a visit and it was my pleasure to converse with him. and he told me that he had seen Jim Sbo^­nessey and that he is the same old Jim. I believe he told me that he is now a captain in the Army. 
"Received a unique card from Jirfui Fantana and from the spirit of the message he and his family are a happy lot. A letter, a copy of which you received, no doubt, from 'hts Majesty Bob* {I never attended morning prayer session) was certainly most welcome. It revived memories of dear old Sophomore Hall. I can still see Kirhy getting dressed for that first formal and Lcppic putting the finishing touches to his tie. 
"By the way, I had a letter from George Lep­piff. and. as you know, he is now a captain in the Marine Corps. At this writing, he has probably put in almost over three years in the South Pa­cific He informed me that he is still in fightins: trim and hopes to be home soon. H«c1i McCaf­fcrT*s brother. Jae, was in Cieorge's outfit and. from the compliment that George paid him. he certainly should receive the high honors that this government confers on their brave soldiers. 
**B«tta Crowley was in town on his way East a few months ago and since then he has joined the ranks of proud fathers, and from what I hear, he is enjoying his little ^rl very much. I haven't heard from Jaknnie Frederidc since last fall, but, now that he has recovered from the shock of the election. I expect a little news, and maybe it will be sarcastic, but it won't get under my' skin. 
"It would be a distinct pleasure to have him, Leppiff* and *yours truly* in the same room. Or. better still, in the Philippines, where I am sure our arguments would run the Japs beck to Tokyo. I met T«m Happer and. although the meeting was very short, it was most pleasant to see that he is in tip-top shape and that the new draft order will find him fit and ready. 
"The letter I rec^ved from Kirby was forward­ed to Set. Bafc Hasiies, now in Belgium. I am sure his many friends in the class of '29 will be very proud that their little man who entered Uncle Sam's Army as a buck private and rose to the rank of sergeant preferred staying with his own outfit rather than go to Officer's Training School, proving the old adage. *good things come in little packages.' 
"The Memorial Mass idea suggested in the last issue of the 'Alumnus' meets with my hearty ap­proval and you can count on me for any assist­ance you may need in this matter. 
"Inasmuch as the Morrisseys did not send any Christmas or New Year greetings. I want to take this opportunity to wish all the members of the class a joyous and peaceful New Year. 
"Please remember that, if you should ever get in Cincinnati, the latch string will always be opened for you at 2800 Madison Road." 
From Capt. Gay LoranKer* November. 1944: "I have been overseas for about 18 months: and have been all that time in New Guinea. I am a member of the medical staff of the Fifth Field Ho^ital: and also am commanding officer of one of our hospital units. We are all quite proud of the Fifth Field Hospital. We have an excellent organization. Our hospital received a commenda­tion recently. Best regards to all." 
Jae Kiulinr. Flushing. N. Y.. assistant counsel with Grumman Aircraft Engineering Cbrp., says that the present antidote for Jap aircraft is the "Hellcat." with stronger medicine exi>ected. Joe has been with Grumman since 1941. For "mate­rial assistance" in maintaining defense plans of the Hawaiian Islands, Lt. CoL Leo Schaltbeis. Louisville, wears the Bronze Star. Leo ser\*ed in the Central Pacific area from December, 1942. to June, 1944. and is now on the War Department general staff in Washington. A note from Jahn Wlasertcr tells us about his being back in civilian life after 17 months overseas with the psycholog­ical warfare branch of AFHQ. In his travels he ran into Capt. Jae Rasney in Algiers, Majar Tom Qaaltera in Algiers and Nrples. and Majar Jerry Hayes. *26. in North Africa, Naples and Corsica. 
Congressman Bak Grant. South Bend, and nine other members of the imiiortant house naval af­fairs cMumittee. made an inspection trip that took them to Pearl Harbor in the Hawaiian Islands, to the Marshalls, to the Marianas, and finally to Syfiney and the capital of Australia. 
A letter from Capt. Dan Bradley from the Phil­ippines, says, in part: 
30 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
"I ran into Gcorse Cronecycr of my class up bere. He's a first lieutenant in the Air Corps. We've had a couple of ^ood sessions togrether. If 
•we can Ret Lorsnver up from New Guinea we'll put on a *2S reunion right here. If any more members of *28 ere marooned in this theater, tell them to contact us. 
"Jim Rinins. '31, writes regularly, and stranj^e­ly the letters from bis base in England arrive promptly. But despite the nice snappj' service from En^rland. Steve Riditarsic, *29. doesn't an­swer." 
Dan was ajtparentb* in on the Leyle invasion for he added. "I came right in at the beKinninp and feel like a native now. My ship hrd 32 runs." 
Jack Hnllen was with the OWI in Washinjrton in the capacity of copy chief for a year but for some months past, he has been with the advertis­ing ajrency of Doherty. Clifford & Shenfield. Inc., 350 Fifth Ave., N.Y.C. 1. He describes his pres­ent work as a "most challenging job"—dealing with the readajustment of returning veterans and their families. Jack has had some tough experi­ences lately. On Labor Day, 1943, he was in on the wreck of the Congressional Limited. On an­other occasion he got home from Washington to find his home in flames. TTie house was gutted but no one was injured. 
 Joseph P. McXamara, 1314 N. 

1929 
Major 
Court Honse Rd.. Arlington, Va. 
Capt. Chmiiu Solbrig, Chicago, has received the Purple Heart for wounds received while serving with an evacuation hosiptal in France-Charlie was later with his hosi)ital unit in Hol­land. 
Lt. Bart McHnch is attached to the New Or­leans Port of Embarkation and is doing a com­mendable job in getting supplies out. 
1930 
Harold E. Dske, 4030 N. Broad St., PhiladelpUa, Pa. 
Banjo strummin* Zeno Staudt left the insur­ance business in Canton for war and post-war business in Wooster, O., with the Buckeye Alum­inum Co., as vice-president and genenil manager. 
The Eighth Naval District Headquarters in New Orleans released the information in Novem­ber that Lt. Bill Miller had returned to the armed guard center there after six months at sea as the commander of the navy gun crew on a merchant ship. His vessel carried vital war cargo to ports in Egypt, Arabia. Ceylon. India, Oran. and Italy. 

MySct. Paul Crosson, Templeton. Ind-, an air­plane inspector in a 15th AAF P-51 Mustang fighter group, has been awarded the Legion of Merit award for "exceptionally meritorious con­duct in the performance of outstanding ser\-ic2s in Italy." Paul has been in the AAF for four years, and has been on overssas duty in North Africa and Italy for 21 months. He is a graduate 
• of the mechanics school at Chanute Field. 111., and was a member of the instructors* staff there for nine months after completing the course. 
Tom Kenneally has been named varsity bai^kct­ball coach at Rutgers University- Tom has been with Rutgers for 13 years as a professor of phy­sical education and as a coach of various sj^rts. 
Joe Apodaca and his wife are living in San Jose. Costa Rica. 
From Wright Held, Dayton. O., comss informa­tion that Harry Francis has been promoted to the rank of major. With the air technical ser\'ice command, Harry has charge of alt clothing and equipment for combat air crews in the overseas 
section of the supply division. He received a com­mendation from, the Russian government in 1942 for his work «s liaison officer in the overseas branch, air technical service commind. 
A letter from Lt. Joe McCab:, commanding an LST in the South Pacific: 
''Censorship restrictions are easing a bit — 
we are now permitted to say we have been in the 
Philippines. Our three-inch gun got a Jcp plane 
at Leyte. We had three bombs about lH feet off 
our port but no damrge done. The crew were ex­
cellent under fire. 
"Had 14 days' leave in Sydney. The first thinjf I did after getting off the plane at Townsville was to stop at a Red Cross Canteen where I had three glasses of cold milk—the first I'd had in 1944. Later in Sydney we had lots of fresh eggs, milk and fresh vegetables including tomatoes, cantaloupes, etc. lliese are small things but they mean so much." 
1931 
Ken TohnUtat formerly of the Minneapolis area, is now in Fond du Lac. Wis. Cpl. Joe Maxwell's address is an APO out of N.Y.C. Joe has been serving overseas for a year. 
Father Thomas Jones, C.S.C., lately out of chaplain school, was commissioned to Dibble Gen­eral Hospital, Menlo Park. Calif.; he is the 2oth 
C.S.C. chaplain. 
After fighting through four major amphibious • invasions—North Africa. Sicily, Italy and Nor­mandy—Lt. Joe Kirby, USNR, of Waukegan, III. arrived home on a 30-duy leave. Joe. who was 
SPIKE McADAMS IS INJUBED 
Lt. Frank (Spike) McAdams, '31, is now-in a U.S. Naral Training- hospital, near Chicaeo. as a result of injarics receiTcd dnrinff the landinff on Leyte last Octokr. As commander of the first LSM in that in­\-asion, Frank was standing on the hridge of his sblp with six other men when a • mortar shell scored a direct hit. As a rc­snlt, he is receiving treatment for 50 shrapnel wounds in his tiEht arm and both Ieg3. His right arm is paralyzed and one foot is partially paralyzed and he probably won't referee any more boxinff. but, as "The Chicago Tnbone*' featare about him said, "there was nothing wrong with his spirit.** Said McAdams: "What the hell. ... I'm back. ... We had landed on the beach at what was known as Cadoman Hill. The Japa fired from the hilL The six men standing beside me were killed* and three others in the rii:p were wonndsd. I remained conscious bccaose I remember thinking that I had been blisd­cd. Hy helmet and heavy clothing sared ray life." 
Blood transfusions—two of them—four plasma and 300,000 units of penicillin were used in saving Spike's life, accordinx to the "Tribune" story, plus the top medical skill of one Lt. Cmdr. Kratz of Chicaga. Spike expects to be back practicing law in Chicago in a year. 
When Spike went into the Navy in No­vember, 1942, he was special assistant 
U.S. attorney In Chicago. His wife and four children reside at 6933 Crandon Ave , Chicago, and a letter flung into the mall for that address wouldn't make Spike mad, we'll bet. 
executive officer and then commanding officer of an LST. later reported for duty as an instructor in the midshipmen's school at Cornell University. During the Normandy invasion, Joe's LST made 27 round-trips between England and the French beaches. 
 James K. Collins, 1135 Manchester 
Ave., Norfolk, Va. 


1932 Lt. 
From Joe Petritz in the Pacific: "We docked the day of the Army game and I ran into Father Paul Hallinan. an Army chap­lain and captain, at Mass at 1600. . . . He has been over liere some 22 months and has been in four invasions, but is the same, quiet, smiling. good guy he always was. I had the distinct honor and privilege of serving a field Mass he said for my brother and of receiving Communion from him several times before we moved on. I was also his guest at a movie. "Moonlight and Cac­tus" which showed ANOTHER merchant ship carrying a swine band, and with salty looking extras lying around the hatch covers singing songs of,the sea! Guess our swing band missed the ship. 
"Again getting back to Paul. I noticed a cou­ple of nicks in the port side Mass card (Gospel of S t John) and be explained that they were from shrapnel. Seems the Nips came over one day just as he was finishing up. Also heard from n Father Murphy, another Army chaplain, who. by coincidence, was in the same jmrish with Paul in Cleveland, that Paul was written up in 'Yank* recently. Seems that on one of the invasions, he was leading the rosary when a raid started. He ordered the men to their foxholes, but he and his faithful right hand. TySgt. Kennedy, stayed right there. This Paul blushingly denies, but without conviction. 
"Ray Geiger won the Bronze Star for his liaison work with the 6th Army in Milr.e Bay last win­ter. He was in one of the very first echelons to land on Leyte. At 0045 on AH Saints' Day, he was winged by an explosive Jap .30 caliber ma­chine bullet from a strafing plane- It hit his rib and was deflected into the muscle tissue. It being All Saints' Day. it didn't explode. So now our boy wears the Purple Heart." 
Lt. (jg> J€»e Willis, serving on a transport as communications officer, has been in the Na\*y since November, 1943. Gerry Linn checked in with an item about his being plant layout engineer in the Wayne. Mich., division of Bendix Aviation Corp., and also about being the father of live boys and a girl! Cap*. Rcmi Renter, .A.PO. San Francisco, has been in New Guinea for the past six months. 
Lt. Ed O'Halley is a civilian again! Ed wcs released in November. His last assignment was as assistant district intelligence officer. New Or­leans. Previous to his entry into the Army in .\pril, 1941, Ed was assistant attorney gener-l of Illinois. The O'Malleys. living in Kankakee. Ill-are expecting another O'Malley. in Januarj*. 
Barry O'Keefe has been promoted to lieutenant commander. 
Pvt. Gene Howrcy. who is the father of two lovely children, is stationed at Fort George Meade. Md. Rege Kohn, Youngwood. Pa., is still with Robertshaw Thermostat Co.. an affiliate of Rey­nolds Metals Co., as assistant purchasing cg;nt-

From Jim Collins: 2nd Lt. Lee Sdiiavone is in charge of the Ital­ian prisoners at the Tooele Ordnance Depot at Tooele, Utah. He turned up in Chicago for the holidays and promised Stan Czpalski and Ben Salvatr that be would be at least a major before his next trip home. He says that since he handles 
The Notre Dame Alumniis 
the language so fluently the prisoners use him for their unofficial chaplain. He spent most of the time in Chicago arguing the merits of his young son. 
Neil Hariey is, as this is written, on s flying trip to London on government contract business. 
Ben SmIvAty is with the National Labor Rela­tions Board* and waiting, he says, for Lt. Nordy Hoffmann to return to the C.I.O. to make it in­teresting. 
Bemie Heitz has left Clarksburg and is at the South Chicago'plant of the Carnegie-IlHnois Steel Coi-p. His wife and their one son are with him there. 
Marty Heckard is with the International Har­vester Co., and living in the old home town of Canton, III. He is the proud father of three children. 
Budd Dyniewicz is still with the Deep Rock Oil Co., and working in the Chicago area. Capt. Bill Kirby is at present with the Division of Engi­neers, working out of Chicago. 
WjUter "Moon" Mullins is the Chicago mana­ger for the Ozalid Blue Printing Ca Lt. Barney Earnhardt is still at sea in the Southwest Pacific. 
Bill Mottsct, of Peoria, is no longer in the laundry business, but is now a sales engineer for Paul Haggerty of that city. 
Stan Czpalski is still in the drug business in Park Ridge, and v.'rites that Dick Roney corre­sponds with him regularly from Philadelphia. Also that he sees Ernie Hechinger, Hurley. Sal­vaty and Heckard often. He writes that he would like to know what has happened to Bob Glaser and Mike Crawford. 
Lt. (jr) Bob Lee and John Litcher write that among others in the Pacific ara Lt- John "Buck­e}'c** Connolly and Lt. Cmdr. Tom Quinn, *31. Litch writes that he never appreciated Milwaukee enough while he was there, but it would look aw­fully good now. Bob sent a roster of the N.D. Club of Hawaii which includes the names of many men of the class who are there or have been there recently. 
Bob Balfe, *31. is a lieutenant (jg). He took his indoctrination at Princeton and at the Harvard communication school. 
Maurice Duffy, *41, after many, months in the Na\T. has been commissioned an ensign. He is at the indoctrination school at Princeton Univer­sity. 
Lt. (jg) Pete Moritz. '43, was recently re­leased from the Naval Hospital at Portsmouth, Va., after recovering from wounds received in action. He has i>een decorated for his actions against the enemy and has received the Purple Heart. He is attached to the Operations Office of the Norfolk Navy Yard now. -. 
Ben Mikes is a storekeepar. third clsss. in the Nax'y and is on duty at the Naval Supply Depot at Mechanicsburg, Pa. 
Lt. Fet« Streb is on duty at Fort Meade. Md., in the replacement depot- Pete spent many months with the anti-aircraft facility of the e~stern coast and was promoted to captain just before the or­ganization was decommissioned. His wife and small son are with him there, the address being Apt. 12B, Plateau Place, Greenbelt, Md. He says he sees Abe Zoss regularly, and was with Smoky Coyne recently. 
The class extends its deepest sympathy to Lts. Paul and Don O'Toole and the members of their family on the death of their brother, Lt. Bar­tholomeir 0*Toole. *39. He was killed in action in Germany. 
Reffis McNamara has been promoted to lieu­tenant commander in the civil engineering corps. 
Mac has been in the Southwest Pacific for over a year, Samoa being hts last stop of which I heard. 
Bill Conaton, still with the Cherry-Burryl Corp.. has returned to the Mid-West and is now living in West Chicago and working in that territory. 
From the Fifth Marine Division Hdqtrs., Char­ley Hitzelberzer writes that ".. . I have been with this outfit since Aug. 14 and have had duty in Washington, Camp Lee. and various beaches out here. This division is a great bunch and, of course, we travel right along with them, hitting the beach just before the USD. Sometimes I wish it was just after the USO." 
1933 
Lt. Tiche Woods, 7944 EUis Ave., Chi-ca£o. III. 
From John A. Hoyt, Jr., District Intelligence Office, Air Technical Sen-Ice Command. AAF, 67 Broad St. N.Y.C.. to Lt. Tiche Woods: 
Took a recent copy of the "Alumnus" with me on the way through New England and, as usual, there v.'as little or no news from our class. I promised myself that when I got back to New York that I would pen a few lines to the class secretary and then see what my publication looked like when edited: Here they are: 
Georffc Rchrs—After a very successful admin­istration as president of the Notre Dame Club of New York, is now leiving his executive duties to Jack Lavelle, who just finished a season of scout­ing Army. Within the near future George is leaving American Processing Co. for wider fields of endeavor. This may not be news, but there is now a George, Jr.. in the family. 
. LT. CMDR. EDWARD A. COGLEY, JR., '33 
Edward A. Cogley, '33, Oak Park, HI., was recently promoted to the rank of lieutenant commander in the Navy-Ed reported to Princeton University in October, 1942, for his indoctrination. He has served overseas for almost two years as commanding officer, division commander and group commander in LCI operations. For nine years Ed was with Sears Roebuck in Chicago, serving as merchandise control manager there just before he entered the Navy. 
Edwardi Ecfccrt—^Now referred to as "dean of Albany Flninbing and Heating Contractors.** Seea in Boston enjdgdnfir the Vartmoatb gumc mad later .. . of all places . . . bavins 'dinner at the Oxford l^vem. oat at Harvard Square. He re­cently was in New York on business, which coin­cided with the Army.Notre Dzms game. Ed is also a busy man in and about Albany and was recently elected to the Board of Governors of the Univer­sity Club. 
Bin Lyndi—Can be seen in any of the Hudson Valley CUties these days representing Wintbrop Chemical Co. Bill is proud of his veteran's insig­nia and was recently seen in Albany where he gave a running account of his experiences. Would like to see more of him at the New York alonni meetings. 
Blaialull McAvaacy—With the Department of Justice in New York. Old timers wouldn't know him as he has taken off 50 pounds and now weighs only. 275. 
Lt. Peter Cmiwliy—Now in Newark, N. J.. 
with the Office of Dependency Benefits. Reported 
to fae with Fat Tray after hours, talking over old 
times-
Frank BfcGsc—Left Nev.* York sometime ago 
for parts unknown but during the week-end of 
the Army-Notre Dame game he was seen running 
for his seat on the 50-yard line. Between steps, he 
proclaimed that he is now living in Bridgeport. 
Conn. 
Lt. N«r& Sdkwartz^-Now stationed at Camp Hyles Standish. Taunton. Mass. Was in New York for Army game and put in an appaarance at the Rally in the Waldorf and then got lost in the crowd. No report whether he actually got to the game, even though he had a ticket when last seen. 
Jim Sktm—Turns out regularly for New York alumni meetings. Still engaged in the printing business and doing a swell job. 
Dave Pawcrs—Now leading cheers on Long Is* land at one of the local colleges. He is known to his audience as Prof. Powers, and from all re­ports he is quite the speech teacher. 
Lt. Jaha Fiaaerui—^In New York recently to visit the family. I^atest reports are that be is now training paratroopers somewhere in the South. Jack has been in and out of the country and looks fine. 
Neil EWrt—Believed to be in Hawaii. From my brother, Lt. Edward J. Hoyt, '37, we hear that he is a frequent visitor to the Officers* Club. 
T«m HcLaasUin—^Rahrs reports that he sees him when he frequents the Jerssy City Quarter­master's Office. 
Joiw AUateaurco and Bill Sauthers—of our class attend nwst of the local alumni meetings and are very active in club affairs. John is in the paper business, and Bill with one of the big de­fense plants in Yonkers. 
Would like to hear about Dick Meade from Washington (state), and Frank Cawley from Washington. D. C 
Hope that scmie of the boys read this and take a few minutes off to gather additional informa-. tion about other members of the "lost class of 1933." 
Jeny Bleacrvcy, Rd-H. 3^c. has been in the Pacific area with the Navy for the past nine months. Lt. Tav Olleara, USNR. armed guard officer aboard a merchant ship, has been convoy, ing for many months. Tom entered the service in December. 1942. P«al Kreaz. Menominee. Mich., contributed the following information: Jake Lci­asa. office manager for Kit Dye Corp.. Chicago; Mike CHaia. at DCS in the Marine Corps; Fred Barstaw, '35. football coach. Menominee High School. Mich.; Mac BfcGinnU, '35. head of OPA. in Baltimore. 
32 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Tom Blisard. (dischartred from service in Octo­ber, 1944). Philadelphia, is in busines? with his brother, sellinjr boatf:. motors, marine supplies— repairintr and contructin^. Lt, (JB) Jim Power, attending the communication school at Han'ard. writes that he has met a few N-D. men there: Ens. Joe Norris, '43, Brooklyn, N, Y., and Ens. Ed Kell}', *42. Chicafro, are in his battalion. Bill Ncwbold, ex. '32. left there a month before for active duty. 
Capt. Bill Dreux. New Orleans, is a member of the Army parachute forces. Bill, with the aid of the French underground, very bravely evaded capture while drivint? throu^rh German-held France. The French government awarded him the Croix de Guerre. He was back in New Orleans on a 30-day leave in December, according to a fea­ture storj' about him in the "New Orleans States," thoughtfully forwarded by Bolan Burke, '28. 
Sifrmund Kitkowski. South Bend, proprietor of a pharmacy, sold a carton of ciprarettes to everj-­one who would purchase a SI.000 war bond in the recent bond drive. 
From Lt. Doug Giorgio, M.C.. USN: 
"We are living in tents here, about ten feet from the Pacific Ocean and the swimming is great. We si)end a lot of time running to the tent to close it when these fast tropical storms blow up. We have had to go out in the field (jungle) and set up a temporarj* hospital, dig fox holes, live in pup tents, camouflrge the whole thing and stay there for a week, having various problems each day. We have a relatively permanent hospi­tal of 150-200 beds, the wards are pre-fabricated huts or tent5. We have two OR's and can do near­ly all our own surgery. 
"My brother. Herb, is a staff sergeant in the in­fantrj-. We have a new chaplain with the hospital, a Father FljTin from Chicago. He's been assistant in a few parishes around Chicago before he came in the Navy. He is saying midnight Mass Christ­mas in a prize fight ring. It should be swell. We've all been practicing our Christmas carols for him." 
Capt. Arthur Tutela is/was s€r\'ing with the medical corps in Belgium. Art. now a b:ittalion surgeon, has been in the Army .snce November. 1943. 
A letter from Lt. Chuck Hafron to Lt. Tighe Woods; dated Dec. 7, 1944: 
"Just about 28 months ago I droi>ped you a brief note from Washington, D. C, as to my whereabouts and plans for the future. Well, it's been touch and go for me since. From the Naval Air Station. Memphis, to Norfolk N.A.S. to Pan­cma and hence overseas. Quite recsntly. the fol­lowing Notre Darners have baen discovered out here: 1st Lt. Ed Krausc, 2nd Lt. George Murphy. Bob Xcff, Bill Hofer and Bob Sullivan." 
4 
Joseph R. Glennon, Jr.. Brook Maner. 193 Pleasantville, N. Y. 
Vic Astone. South Bond, head of the adult pro­bation department of St- Joseph county courts, was recently installed as president of the St. Joseph Couny Federation of Social Workers. 
Tji Ray Kane. Duluth, Minn., is in the Nether­lands East Indies with the radar signal corps. He has been in ser\*ice three years. S/Sgt. Bob Ted-ens APO. N.Y.C.. brother of Sister Agnes Cecile, C.S.C.. St- Mary's, recently received with his group, the Croix de Guerre, from the French gov­ernment and also a Presidential Citation for missions accomplished. A news item authored by Lt. John Buckley, APO. San Francisco, an­nounced that the N.D. Club of Hiwaii had a Christmas party, Dec. 28. with 55 in attendance, and a communion breakfast, Sunday. Jan. 14. with a regular meeting following. 
Marine Lt. Col. Dick Hanley, former Northwestern football coach, greets one who used to cause him no end of annoy­ance—Marine Capt. Tim Moynihan» '30, All-American center. When the picture was taken both were stationed at El Toro, Calif. Tim had recently returned from the South Pacific^ 
2nd Lt. Granville Zicgler, South Bend, was transferred from Camp Shelby. Miss., to an over­seas embarkation center. He is a member of an anti-tank group in the Army infantry. Newly commissioned a second lieutenant at the San Antonio Aviation Cadet Center, Tex., was Ed Moran, Chicago,- who is now qualified to fill a position as an administrative officer with the AAF. 
John Claudcr. traveling from corst to coast for the Cleaver-Brooks Company, writes from Mil­waukee. Wis.: "Have been working in the train­ing schools at various Navy and Army bases. Have run across three Notre Dame men up to the present time. Jfihn Fitzgerald in Pawtucket. R. L, and Bob Colgan in Ventura, Calif. Bob is traffic man:iger for Contractors. Pacific Naval Air Bases and is living in Oakland. Calif. Also had a few minutes chat with John Hogan in Los An­geles. Am leaving for the west coast Jsn. 29 so perhaps I'll run into more of the fellows." 
5 
Franklj-n C. Hochreitert 2118 Trcasnre 
St., New Orleans 19, La. 

193 
Bill Gorsen, Mineral Point. Wis., is the owner and manager of the Gorgen Funeral Home there since May, 1942. A note from Bob Lee, Norwich-
CONLEY IS PRESS CHIEF 
Lt. Cmdr. John Conley, '34, Bal­timore, was appointed officer in charge of the press section of the Navy Department's bureau of pub­lic relations, Washington, D. C , it w^as announced in Washington in late December. John, formerly a member of the editorial staff of the Baltimore "Evening Sun," joined the Navy in August, 1941, with the rank of lieutenant (jg)* He has two children. 

town. Conn., announced that his brother. 1st Lt. Walt Lee, '38. was somewhere in Germany. 
Lt. CoL Beanie Cavender, overseas since Aug­ust, was on Leyte. Beanie has been on active duty since July. 1940, and a lieutenant colonel since January. 1942. Lt. (jit) Bill Donahue, Harvey. III., service address—FPO, San Francisco—wrote several N.D. men with whom he had crossed paths: "Lt. Johnnie Collins. '33. came through Honolulu recently and has traveled to points fur­ther west-I am presently working with one Lt-Jack Gaither, *41, and was associated with Ens. Walt Nienaber, *37. who is now ih New Guinea. I was recently advised that Leonard Re^an, '33. is somewhere in the Pacific." 
Traditional N-D. courage was poitrayed in the actions of Marine iRt Lt. Charles Landmesser. East Orange. N. J., who, through whispered telephonic directions to a mortar outfit- was cred­ited with an estimated toll of 300 Japanese killed in two days on Saipan. The patrol of spotters scaled an enemy-held crag overlooking a valley in which a considerable number of Japanese troops had been pocketed. Hiding themselves for the day, they proceeded to direct Marine mortar fire on the enemy below them, by means of a field telephone which they carried with them. Charlie was ^vounded on Saipan and received the Purple Heart, Subsequently he took part in the Tinian invasion. His mother writes that his wife and young daughter are with the Landmessers in East Orange. 
It's Lt. Cmdr. John Montedonico now, and he's in command of a ship engaged in antisubmarine and escort drty. Considered one of the foremost attorneys of Memphis, John has been in the Navy since February, 1942. He is the father of a daugh­ter. Jean, one year old. Another lieutenant com­mander, Frank Sc4ilcu(er, is in the medical corps. He is a flight surgeon and is on duty with the Navy air force in the South Pacific. 
ENS. J. JACOB KUNZ, '35 

Ens. J. Jacob Kunz, '35, was one of many Notre Dame men who participated in the invasion of Leyte on Oct. 20 and who have since served "soacewhere in the Philippines." On his LST on Christ­mas Day, Jake distinguished himself by writing a poem, "Merry Christmas, 1944," to go along with the official menu of the day. 
The appointment of Bill Klima. priorities rei>­resentative in Washington for Federal Telephone and Radio Corporation. Newark. N. J,, during the last two years, to be manager of priorities of the Government Controlled Materials Plan, has been announced by the company. As manaf^er of the department. Bill will continue to have charjre of priorities in Washington for the manufactur­ing divisions and laboratory divisions of the Newark company. 
In a letter postmarked Lemoyne. Pa.. Bob Klaibcr writes. "A number of local Notre Damers includinj; myself v.-ero at the Navy name at Balti­more this last ye!!r. I saw Joe Farrcll, '15. Sgt. Frank Barbush. ':}6. and Lt. John McNeill. "S'A. Needless to say. we were a bit disappointed. By the way. a classmate of mine. Lt. (JK) Paul Hockwalt. i> stationed at Washington at the Bu­leHU of Shi»>s." 
1936 
Joseph F. Mansfield. 34 Fifth St.. Pelham. N. Y. 
A release from "somewhere in New Guinea" disclosed that Sgt. John DeGarmo, Niles. O.. was with the adjutant general's section, part of a veteran infantry division. John has besn serving overseas for the past 17 months. Capt. John Gleason. Evanston. 111., also *'somewhere in New Guinea," Ijraved being blown to bits to assist in extinguishing a fire that wns threatening to set otr a large ammunition dump in New Guinea. For this heroic act. John was awarded the Soldier's Medal. He has lieen on active duty since the spring of 1P41 and has a year-old heir v.-hom he hasn't seen. 
Having received a metiicai discharge from the Army in November, 1944. Irwin "Bud" Goldman is now with radio station KTEM. Temple, Texas. Gene Malloy checked in with: "still think Hous­ton is the No. 1 spot—had a daughter. Susan, born November. '4:t—am looking forward to the reunion in *4fi—am still with Burroughs Adding Machine." 
1ST LT. JOHN JOYCE, '36 

1st Lt. Jack Joyce, of the class of '36, Mt. Lebanon, Pittsburgh, has besn awarded the Bronze Star Medal for mer­itorious achievements in the Southwest Pacific. Jack was formerly associated with Swift & Co. in Pittsburgh. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Lt. Fred Carideo. who commanded an LST in the invasions of Normandy and southern France. is now training at Little Creek, Va.. for services as commanding officer of an LSM. 
 J. Reilly. MacNair-Dorland Co., 


1937 
Frank 
254 W. 31st St.. New- York City. 

To take the place of the world-touring Paul Foley (in Istanbul with the OWI at the latest re­port), the "Alumnus" put the bee on another journalist, Frank Rcilly. to be '37 secretary. And Frank, even in the <iuick start here presented, came through beautifully. More next issue. Send your news to Frank at the above address. 
From Frank Rcilly: Ensi Justin C. McCann. hack in New York with his wife and two children, after a three months' communications course at Harvard, is waiting for shipping orders. Says he'll probably be in town for 30 days (as of Jan. 16) and then off to who knows where. Justin .reports he ran across Joe McNally, a senior grade lieutenant in the Navy, at a Brooklyn pier recently. Joe is first division officer aboard an ammunition ship, after having two years armed guard ser\'ice. Joe says brother Bill is with an Army Air Force supply branch and is believed to be somewhere in France-Justin also reports a really fresh piece of news: John Marbach was graduated Jan. 12, from the Judge Advocate General's school at the Uni­versity of Michigan and about the same time was commissioned an Army second lieutenant John, we are told, has been in the Army since March, 1944. 
Tom Hughes, another resident of this wonderful place called Parkchester. reports the birth of his second child. Barbara Elaine, on Nov. 28. The Hughes have another child, Tom. Jr., who, I be­lieve is about two and a half. Tom tells me that his old N.D. sidekick. Joe Schillinc. now a lieu­tenant, jg. in the Navy, has recently returned from the Mediterranean area. Joe is in the armed guard service and in charge of a gun crev.-. He also tells of having seen Bill Foley around Army-Notre Dame game time. Bill, having been ground­ed in some finer points after a stretch of service with William O'Dwyer's Brooklyn investigation and revelations concerning "Murder, Inc.." i^ now some sort of special government investigator, according to my witness. Tom Hughes further in­forms me that another of our classmates who was living here in Parkchester. Joe Porter, now an advertising solicitor for radio station WOR. became the proud papa of a baby boy in No­vember. Joe moved from Parkchester in early December, after our never having met here. He lives over in Jersey now. my old stamping ground, but due to the blizzard conditions there was snowed in, so I was told when I called his office today. Needless to add I called from my of­fice since "neither snow, etc.." prevented New Yorkers from reaching their offices (I hope). 
While on the subject of Parkchester, — another of the '37 bunch living here is Mark Lonerxan. Actually Mark's home and family nre here. He is a seaman, second class, at Bainbridgs. Md.. Naval Training Station. I saw Mark in the latter part of the fall, shortly before the arrival of his third child, which according to Mrs. Lonergan. was five weeks ago. Mark is able to slide up here for an occasional week-end with the family, and I plan to see him the next time he's i;p. He told me in the fall that he had run across Roderick J­"Rick" Gillis. Rick being a naval lieutenant or ensign and stationed at Ft. Schuyler. It seems to me I met a naval officer who lookad exceeding­ly like Rick (it occured to me later) as I was passing through Pennsylvania Station around the same time as Mark mentioned seeing him. Inci­dentally, since I'm within a 1»- or 15-cent phone call or long dime street car ride, from Schuyler. I hops any *37ers passing through that indoctri­nation center will please call or drop by. 
Among the Christmns cards was one from the West Coast from Jack Hemm, unfortunately, de­void of any details as to what he might be doing. I'll write to you very shortly. Jack. 
Another member of the class who has distin­guished himself is Joe (now Father "Joe" Eng­lish, one of the men of Maryknoll.) I called Joe and had a chat v.'ith him. He tells me that Bob Kelly, of our class and formerly of Pittsburgh, is a Franciscan priest and stationed about a block away from my office. I'm going to look him up. 
I understand both the Baker boys are in the Army. Jack was in our class and worked himself up (luite well in retailing before going into the Army. His older brother. Dick, if I'm not mis­taken, is fighting in Italy at the present time-
Father Joe EnsUsh tells me that Capt. Bill . Fallon, of the Army, stopped in- to S3e him about a month ago, but Joe was out and mi-^scd him. Bill was in England for a while, Joe says. 
Tom Hughes called me this morning to tell me that he had met Joe Qainn. of the Newton, N.J., Quinns. and that Joe had just been selected to attend the Navy Bureau of Accounts and Sup­p'ies school at Harvard. Joe has been in the Navy for over two years. I believe, and will re­ceive his commission as an ensign on completion of the course. Tom told me that Joe said he had seen a number of our classmates in the past cou­ple of years. 
Letter from Ens. Vince Probst to AI Schwartz: "I received your card today, via rapid mail ser\*ice of Uncle Sam. It got to Fort Schuyler the day after we left, and was a little over five weeks in catching up with me down here. If you haven't heard from Kelly, he is at Camp Bradford, Nor­folk. Va. All the jg's at Schuyler were sent there to LST training, while most of the ensigns got Fort Pierce. Fla., or Miami. In the latter, they are giving us a background that lan send us to practically any ship. It has really been swell down here, because they let us live somewhat like we did at home. My wife and little Vince and I have a very nice apartment for the present. 
"In New York, the only N.D. boy I ran into was Ken Moriarity. He has pretty up-to-date in­formation on most of the boys. Walsh is skipper of an LCI. having been in about three and one-half years. Tangney is on some sort of amphib craft in the South Pacific Jack Bartlsy is a gob. Ed Rorfce and Frank Hnisking were killed in ac­tion. At home on 19 days's leave, I saw Loo Feh­lig—he is still in the lumber business. Charles Coy, a jg in the supply corps, was home from Alaska on leave at the same time, but d:dn*t run into him until Irst night, so we made a brief night of it." 
AWARDED DSC FOR HEROISM 
Capt. Francis Sampson, '37, chaplain of the parachute infan­try, was awarded the DSC for ex­traordinary heroism on D-Day at Balise Abbevillct France, the war department announced in Decem­ber. Father Sampson had a parish in Neola, la., when he entered service. 
Vince entered the Nav-y last spring. At that time he was an inspector for the American Steel Foundries, Granite City, 111. 
TTie station control officer at AAF Redistribu­tion Station No. 1, Atlantic City, N. J., is Frank Kopcxak, Chicago, who has been promoted to captain. Before his entry into the Army, Frank was line coach for Jimmy Conzelman at the Uni­versitj- of Washington in St. Louis for four years. 
Best wishes are extended to Jim Sullivan and his wife who were married in April, 1944, in Har­lingen, Tex., where he is still stationed with the rank of staff sergeant. Jim was inducted into the Air Force in May, 1942, and is now doing re­search at the field. He is a qualified, aerial gun­ner-radio operator. 
Indirectly, it has Leen heard that Lt. Johnny Lantmr is ser\*ing with the 'Savy in the Pacific. Lt. Nelson Lampcrt was, in early November, sta­tioned in New Guinea. The last address for Maj. Bin. Lieser was Camp Carson. Colo., where he ser\*ed with the medical detachment, but that was long ago. Fred Welter, Albion, Mich., reported that Lt. Bin Graham is stationed at the Chicago Ordnance office and is living in Chicago with Mrs. Bill and daughter. Carol, at 1.335 W. Touhy Ave. 
Lt. Vic Wojcihovski, until entering the Navy two years ago. was head coach at Iron Mountain, Mich., High School, sent word that he was on his way to duty with the Pacific fleet. 
1938 
Harold A. Williams, 4323 Marhlehall Rd., Bmltimorc, Md. 
From Hal Williams: 
Feature spot this issue goes to Adrian "Joe" Race who, on Feb. 2, will be ordained by the Most Rev. Moses Elias Kiley, D.D., archbishop of Milwaukee, in St. John's Cathedral in Milwaukee. Joe will celebrate his first solemn Mass on Feb. 4 in St. Hyacinth's Church. Milwaukee. His address is 2167 S. 16th St., Milwaukee 7. Wis. I know that the boys will remember Joe in their prayers. Masses and Communions. And I think Joe would be tickled to death if you fellows dropped him a line. 
And now a dandy letter from Johnny "Sac" Kelley^ written in a slit trench in Germany. He writes, "It is really great to read all about the old gang, and to learn that so many of them are in the service. ITie news brought back pleasant memories of Johnny O'Connor, Pat Carej*, Tom Fitzcerald, Deacon Anton, and Scotty Reardon. It certainly was tough about Leo Welch. I was out with Leo and Clark Reynolds when they were at Harvard. .. . I haven't been fortunate in meet­ing any from our class but I did get a few letters from Gene Vadett while I was back in England. My wife and Gene's wife were together at the Dartmouth and Army games- .. . 
"It looked good to see the names of Tom Bohen and Swede Bauer in print. .. . I managed to get a boat ride to Normandy shortly after D-Day and I still hold my old job as batter>* execu­tive in a medium artillery battalion. We were kept pretty busy all the way across France. Bel­gium and Holland, and we are now sitting in Adolph's front yard. .. . I had a letter from Chick Gallasher after he got his commission at Fort Sill, but don't know anything else new about him. Joe Corcoran, the last I heard, was a lieu­tenant (jg) in the Na\i-. . . . My wife, Roz, saw Don Hickey while he was at Harvard. .. . I would like to send congratulations to Bob Mazanec en his promotion to captain. . . . Say hello to all the boys." 

llianks, John, for the swell letter. We .saw your wife in New York and also pictures of your baby. Glad the kid looks like your wife, you old baldhead. 
And now a note from Don Smith, who is a lieutenant in the Na\-y. He writes, "I am home on a brief leave before shipping out for duty some place in the Pacific. Here's the dope on my­self: I joined the Na\-y in March, *41, was at Pensacrola for better than a year, then to Nor­folk, then down to Miami. Was in Miami from November, *42, until now. Was stationed there with the Naval Transport Squadron as a navi­gator ; flew the Indies. Central and South Amer­
"Haven't seen many of the lads cround. Ran into Jim Tapiey, *37, over a ye:r and a half ago in Hony%vood, Fla.; was going to a Navy school there. Saw Lt. Pat Galfney of the Navy in Miami a year ago. Last I heard he wcs work-
REV. ADRIAN J. RACE, '38 
(See 1938 netvs) 
ing for the Department of Justice, married, and an expectant father. Bill Tucker was a brother navigator at Miami; he is expecting orders. Ran into John Ko%'atdi several times in San Juan, Puerto Rico, and Trinidad, B.W.I. He was a jg flying in a P-boat squadron. . . . What ever hap­pened to Leo Simpson, Eddie 'Chicaco' Brennan, Jerry Sdiaeffer, Joe Ryan, '37, Warren Shccdy. '37, and Alex Sloan? Would sure like to hear from the fellows. My address is: Lt. D. L. Smith. 1392 Grayton Road. Grosse Pointe Park, Mich. My folks will know my address and will forward the mail." 
Thanks, Don, and let's hear from you again. And good luck! 
Rose and Tom Hutchinson announced the birth of Alice Anne on Dec 2, 1944, in Bend, Ore.; their, third. And then there were Christmas cards from Chuck Broains, Jack and Mary Cleaiy, Ens. and Mrs. Jack Zcriwt, and Bill Hahoney, O.P. Bill. I believe, is still in River Forest, 111., com­pleting his studies. 
Bob Wearer is now in Baltimore working for the Government; Bill Miller, '36, who is stationed in Richmond, was in Baltimore recently, and we had a nice talk. And I bumped into Geotsc How­ard, looking more prospsrous than ever, at the Army-Navy game. 
That's all the news except that Bad Shei •••<*« latest address is Morris Hall A-31. Soldiers Field Station. Boston 63, Mass. He is an ensign in the Navy and is studying at Harvard. 
Keep up those letters, the boys enjoy reading them. And I do, too. 
Ennio Arboit, coached the Spalding Institute eleven of Peoria. 111., to an unbeaten and untied season this year. It was his third unbeaten team at Spalding In seven years as head coach there. Redman Docran* formerly of the Social Security Board in Ogden, Utah, has been appointed a vice-consul in the State Department. After being in Washington, D. C., for two months' training, he will be assigned, in all probability, to South Africa. Lt. (jc) John Hclmer. has been in the Navy since January, 1944. and is currently locat­ed in the Admiralty Islands. With two years over­seas duty behind him, Lt. Col. Jim Berry, AAF, Greensboro, N. C, has returned to the states. 
All best wishes for a hasty and complete re­covery go to Vince Sherrod» Robinson, III., who is recuperating from a serious illness contracted while he was serving in the medical cori>s of the Army. He is now at Mt. St. Rose Sanitorium in St. Louis. Vince was retired from the Army in July, 1944. 
Lt. Bob Mullen, River Forest. 111., took part in the Salerno invasion, ffince then. Bob has been retired from the Army and is working at Sears Roebuck. A first lieutenant in the Marine Corps. Phil Kirch has been overseas 18 months and has participated in the Bougainville and Guam opera­tions. He is on the staff intelligence. He joined the Marines in October. 1942. 
John Buckley is sales manager of Krcpp Forge Aviation Company, has four sons and lives in Oak Park, III., and he reports that Bob McGrath is now personnel director of the Chicago Metals Company, and has a son and a daughter. [Ed's note: Please add Buckley to that '38 group of four-children fathers, as reported in the Decem­ber "Alumnus." Move over, Sweeney and Leahy!] 
In a V-mail, dated Dec. 25 In Germany. 1st Lt. Walt Lee says that he is anxious to get in touch with any Notre Darners who may be located near him. 
1939 
Vincent W. DeCoaraey, 1321 Georgia, Kansas City, Kans. 
Attorney Maurice Frank. South Bend, has been appointed state director of the public information program, of the Junior Bar conference of the American Bar-Association, the appointment com­ing from the Junior conference in Washington. 
2nd Lt. Ralph Mazar spent a leave in South Bend with his parents. His base is now New Lon­don, Conn. Commissioned an ensign in the Naval Reserve in June, 1944, Bob Gallagher was indoc­trinated at Princeton University for two months and then was shipped immediately overseas in the Pacific 
Boosting N.D. in the Eighth Air Force P-51 Mustang fighter group based in England are 1st Lts. Larry Satton, Memphis, and Ed Carroll. Lynch, Ky. Both men suffered deep agonies for several days after the Notre Dame-Army football game. "It couldn't happen," .Larry said. Larry is a fighter pilot and Ed is assistant communica­tions officer. 
TySrt. Georre Green is on the "Stars and Stripes" in Paris. Jack Ryan. Trona. Cali f., writes proudly of the birth of a baby daughter on Sept. 16. He also speaks, with almost an equal amount of pride, of another "baby" quite success­fully launched—a plant for recovery of lithium from Searles Lake brines, which process hcs been his problem for the past two and one-half years-
Ens. Bab Ortale was traced to Galveston, Tex-, and Lt. Awcnst Petrilki, to Ft. Hayes, Columbus, 
O. The current address of ls4 Lt. Bill Frekowitz is APO. San Francisco. Lt. Neat Codiran is sta­

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
tioned in New Britain. Major Paul Kelley* re­cently returned from the Pacific, si)ent a leave with his mother in South Bend. Word has been received at Notre Dame that Set. Mario (Motts) ToneUi, who was captured by the Japs on Bataan. is still in a prison camp. The information came from an American soldier who escaped and made his way back. 
Excerpts from a letter written by John Doyle, Waldwich. N. J.: 
"Still at the same old stand with the Research and Technical Development Division of the U.S. Rubber Company in Passaic, trying to improve the old synthetic rubber situation—it's slow but seems to be sure. 
"My brother, Jim, '42, is a lieutenant. Junior grade, acting as a gunnery officer in the Central Pacific. Ran into Lt. Dan Sheedy in New York at the Army game, together with his wife and mother, dad and sisters. There is quite a Notre Dame family. Also saw- Bill Murray and Art Baam up from Wilmington for the game." 
Hnrh Boms, Cincinnati. O.. who received a medical discharge from the Marine Corps after 18 months* service, has succeeded Eugene (Scrap­iron) Yonnr as the trainer of Notre Dame's ath­letic teams. You'll find, elsewhere in this issue, a complete story about the change. 
Joe Harrington in Ancon. Canal Zone, writes: 
"There is very little N.D. news down here these 
days. Aside from Bill Allen, ex. '32, Dr. Patter­
son, '11, Bill Sheridan, '34. and myself, there are 
fev/ alumni left on the Isthmus. I am now a dep­
uty shipping commissioner in the Balboa Customs-
house and am kept on my toes most of the day 
and parts of the night. Perhaps sometime in the 
summer I shall get a little vacation to return to 
the States and Notre Dame." 
Marty Lcntsch is combining his family's bakery business with coaching at South Bend Catholic High School. He turned out a fine football team last fall, one which laid claim to the state Catho­lic high school championship. 
After 14 months* service in the Gilbert and Marshall Islands and American Samoa, 1st Lt. Bob Kieman returned to Milwaukee for a visit. He si>ent the first two months overseas ferrying Douglas dive bombers into combat zones and for the remainder of his tour of duty piloted Doug­las transports into the war areas, carrying sup­plies and evacuating wounded. Bob piloted one of the first planes to land at Tarawa and Roi after they had been wrested from the Japs. He and his wife were at Notre Dame on Jan. 29. 
Nothing further has been heard in the Alumni Office of LoD Bemish. a flight engineer of a B-29 who was lost over China, together with his crew, on the return trip from a Formosa raid in mid-October. It is rumored that he was brought down in Guining Province, v.'hich is in enemy hands. 
From Vince DcCoorsey: 
News of the boys this period is, conservatively speaking, not too adequate A couple of letters that came in just too late for the last issue, a couple of 'phone calls, and that's that. 
First, a note that it's lat Lt. R. M. Schlsck, Jr., who, in early December, was in England-
Second, a letter from Tom Reardon (a new ad­dition to San Francisco's population) lamenting on the difficulties of crossing the Sierra's w*ith family, snow, rain, and his own version of a PT boat. 
Third, a nice letter from Lt. Joe Resrnolds, APO 758, N.Y.C. Joe's letter was considerably delayed for some reason, being over a month arriving. Joe left N.D. in his junior year and finally fin­ished at Portland U- Joe spoke of hearing from Fred Dlsby (who will be Father Digby by the 
1ST LTS. ED CARROLL & LARRY SUTTON 
(See 1939 news) 

time this reaches print). Joe says, "I entered the service July 29, 1942, was commissioned Feb. 19, 1943, in the Quartermaster Corps, left the States, June 10, 1943. invaded Sicily D-Day, July 10. 1943. invaded Southern France. D-Day. Aug. 15. 1944." 
Jlope for better luck next month. 
Lt. Dick Carney. Milwaukee, has been awarded the Bronze Star for heroism under fire on the western front and received a battlefield promo­tion to first lieutenant. 
 Robert G. Sanford, 3934 N. Blary­
land Ave.* Milwankec, Wis. 


1940 Lt. 
First American to shoot down a "buzz-bomb," a German V-1 robot. Maj. Tom Listen arrived home in time for a Thanksgiving Day dinner with his family in Chicago after a year in the European theater as leader of a Thunderbolt fighter squadron engaging in 86 missions over Germany, France and Italy. 
Capt. Benny Sheridan has arrived in the Euro­pean theater of war with his mechanized cavalry outfit. Benny was one of the first men to J)e draft­ed in South Bend, and as a result has teen in service nearly four years. His wife is now Ed Me-Keever*9 secretary at N.D. 
Two ex-Irish stars were on the Cleveland All-men Transfer team which opened its home Na­tional League basketball season against the Pitts­burgh Corbetts in Cleveland last December. The men were Steve Sitko and Tom Wakovitsi '38­
Welcome and heartening news was received when Tom Wade. '33, informed us that Lt. Phil Wade was not missing in action as was reported in the previous issue of the "Alumnus" but was alive and a prisoner of war of the German gov­ernment. 
Georce Wilson* affiliated with the engineering department of Douglas Aircraft for the past five years, checked in with a note about 1st Lt. Frank Gnnter. who is with the Marine Corps far at sea. Frank is leader of a rifle squad and has seen ac­tivity in Saipan—with other battle areas unde­termined. 
Addresses: Ted Kaknia. airline pilot. China Na­tional Aviation Corp.. APO 465, N.Y.C: Lt. Bill Bams. USNR, 5607 N. 10th St, Philadelphia. 
When he wrote Bill was waiting for a new as­signiAent. 
Glad to hear that Kan Kal^rans, woonded in ac­tion in Normandy. July 13, has recovered. Ken was in a ho^ital in England three months before being released. He returned to his unit and was in Germany. Belated congratnlations on Ken's marriage to Margaret M^ers of Gainesville. Tex., on Dec 19. 1943. 
1st Lt. Dkk Stcffaniak spent a leave in Soath Bend with his wife and parents in December. Dick is sUtioned • at Walla Walla, Wash. A fi­nance officer in the Army. tfStt. Carl Qaiaa, Haeomb. III., is stationed in Alaska. Carl, who was married in July, 1943. is fortunate to have his wife with him in Alaska! 
Letter from 1st Lt. Paal Hcimeff. Washington. 
D. a, to Bab Saafnd: 
"Greetings from one of your long lost class­mates! Have just returned to the States after being wounded in France. Have been overseas for over a year and a half, and went into France on D-Day with the fourth division. A. good time was had by all! Sure is swell to be back home—espe­cially with my wife. Ran into a few N.D. men in my travels—Lt. GMrse Bliles* *41. paratrooper, in England: Maier Paal Linnduui. a Marine fly­er, in Washington, just back from the Southwest Pacific; Ens, Dan Snitk, communication <^Beer in the Navy, waiting to ship out in New York. 
"Am still in the hospital but hope to get out in a few months. Sure did miss the 'Alumnus.* Where is Jae Byaa? Hope to see yon soon." 
Lt. <js) Frank Witte. Chicago, a deberkation officer aboard a coast guard manned assault trans­port, was responsible for seeing that landing barges were filled with cargo or combat personnel and rushed ashore in the invasion of the Philip­pines. It is now Capt. Jade C^ . Jack is serving with the Army in the Pacific. Congratnlations also to Dan Faskett, who received his captaincy last October. M^Sfft. Bab McManas, Indianapolis, has been in the South Pacific for two and one-half years. Capt. Bab Blake, USMC. was awarded the Silver Star for his work in combat against enemy Jzpanese forces during the New Georgia campaign. Solomon Islands, in July. 1943. 
Bin Sallivan enlisted in the Army Transport Corps early in 1944 and after a few months in school came out as second engineer. Bill left for overseas in July to take an assignment in Eng­land on a Deisel job. and he is, it seems, still working around the British Isles, and is now* rated first engineer. 
Ordained to the pri^thood Feb. 2 in the Cathe­dral of the Immaculate Conception. Fort Wayne; by Blaat Ber. Jobn Francis N<d], D.D., Father C^ndiaa Bersan celebrated his first solemn Mass Feb. 4 in St- Joseph's Church. South Bend. He is attached to the diocese of Ft. Wayne. Father Bergan is one of the South Bend family so long associated with Notre Dame. He is a nephew of Father CemeUas Bagerty. C.S.C. 
Bits of news about the courrge and accomplish­ments of Lt. Jerry Hasan, Navy flyer, keep coming in. Lt. Jim Cawlcy, USNR, writes that he flew with Jerry from New York City to Nor­folk, where Jerry received his second DFC for work in the anti-submarine campiign. Jerry was married in Decatur, 111., in January to Bbry Driscoll (St. ICary's), and the newlyweds were later in the South Bend-NJ).-St. Mary's sector for a couple of days, but the modest Hogan . didn't show up in the Alumni Office so that "Alomnus" reporters could put him through an interview. The Hogans are living in Brooklyn, where Jerry is attached to Floyd Bencett Field. 
After extensive armed guard work in the At> lantic. Jim Cawlcy is now iloing port director work in the Pacific and meeting lots of N.D. del­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
egates. He often sees Father Joe Corcoran, C.S.C., a chaplain, and had met Father Frank Boland, C*S.C.* another chaplain. Others on the Cawley list: Andy Cblebeck. Jim Brutz. Lou Rymkus, Wade Xoda. Johnny Lewis and Bill "T-6one" Mahoney. 
A more-than-welcome vis^itor to the office in late Januar>- was Set. Don O'Neill, South Bend, who has been abroad with the AAF intelliKence for 29 months and was home on rotation. Don has !-cen much in North Africa, Sicily, Corsica and Italy. After a three weeks* stay at his home. South Bend. Don moved on to the West Coapt for two weeks* rest rehabilitation and then rea.«sijm­ment. 
Excerpts from a letter from Lt. Bill Fay: 
"Father Corcoran called a gatherinR of N.D. men in Honolulu for St. Aujrustine's Church olT Waikiki one recent Sunday afternoon, and I dis­covered why alumni wear those bijr round name­plates to reunions. I did recognize Jerry Flynn. Flynn said, "I almost didn't recotrnire you, you put on so much weight." And I said. "I didn't recognize you either, without Cla?hmore Mike." And after that we had a real friendly talk. 
"Joe Cnmminffs was there, a Navy lieutenant. s:en:or grndc. It is just atcut time for me to write another yetter to Mrs. Funk, sayinjr I mislaid Al's address, then I will write to A!: he will write to me. saying in effect.. Iet*s really keep the corre­spondence going this time, and in another six months I will write Al's mother again. 
"Incidentally, if it hasn't been printed in the class notes already. Dillon, Ryan and Rcpetto (what happened to him?) and O'Brien and all the other stalwarts of Dillon's second floor rear, will be interested to know that there is a young Funk now, born to Mary and AI about a year ago. Out­side of Flynn and Cummings, I haven't seen any other *40*s since Walt Hacen and Bud Centner and that was on Tennessee maneuvers a long time. 
"I have been in the Hawaiian Islands for about nine months, most of that time working as an Army reporter. I was on Saipan very briefly, tim­ing the visit excellently between the tim2 the is­land was secured and the first retaliatory raid on 
the B-29's. Saw the first of them coma into Aslito Field, and it was a prophetic and'breathtaking sight—their slim, decdiy silhouettes against the fading evening sun." 
 John W. Patterson. Jr.* 533t Dar­
linslon Rd.. Pittobarsfa, Pa. 


1941 Lt. 
From Ist Lt. Walt DescI to John Patten»n on Nov. 27: 
"Having left N.D. in February. 1942. but know­ing most of the fellows of *41, I decided to write to you with the news that I have of some fellows I have run into while sitting on this island in the South Pacific. Every once in a while, some 
N.D. man crosses my path Here they are—the McLansfalin brothers, both in the Army Air Corps, who were here for <iulte a while; Jim Mcrrion, a Marine who passed here on ship with Bill Hcnke, also a Marine lieutenant: Lorenzo Cnllip, a first lieutenant in the Marines, who just returned from Palau and is hoping to make the States; Roffer Foley, captain in the Marines, who is nearby and whom I expect to see soon, if I get the CO.'s permission to make the short trip: Major Hannon in the Marines, whom I know only slightly from N.D. 
" I also saw Bill Kellehcr of New York and the Marines just before he went to Palau. I heard John Monagrhan is now a Marine. Heard from Tony Benedesso, who is a captain with the Army in France. Noel Wilkins expects to be over there soon. I heard from Paul Pneiia over there also. Leo Robidonx writes ever so often — he's mar­ried and has a beautiful son." 
From 1st Lt. Jim Spellman to Jchn Patterson on Dec. 22: 
"Just finished re-ding the October *Alumnus.' I am sorry to learn that Jack Henneszy, Gordon Love, and Bill Kontz—all of our class at one time —have been lost in the war. It was equally S!:d to read about Don Stapleton's death. I shall re­member all of them in my prayers. Gordy Love was lost here at Saipan, probably about the time I landed here. Thus far, I have not met any Notre Dame men on this outpost- It would be a pleasant experience to meet somebody from the class of '41. 
"This island has changed remarkably since the early battle days. Of course, we are much in the news these days, with the huge bombers pounding away at Tokyo. Don't think that the Japs fail to retaliate. Many nights I have to get out of bed and run for a foxhole. However, life is peaceful and serene. 'Hie place was realty smashed during the invasion, but one would hardly recognize it now. 
"I have been razzed from one end of Saipan to the other alout that 59-0 beating that our Alma Hater took from Army and the other trouncing we got from Navy. Since our time zone is over half a day ahead of eastern U.S. time. It was impossible to listen to the broadcasts without get­inp up at three in the morning. 
"When I was at Honolulu early this year. I met many N.D. men. We had ssveral meetings. I be­lieve the N.D. Club of Honolulu meets at least twice a month, at St. Augustine's School. Lt. Cmdr. Tom Qainn and Bill Hannifin are two of the committee who arrange the get-together. Others of our class whom I met were Tom Reis, Jack Lacas, Dnff Kerieer, Herb Westoff, and Frank Carey. There were many others whose names I don't remember. Father Bridenstine, C.S.C., was also present. 
"I am the finance ofiicer of an air szrvice group which ssr\*ices a fighter group. My ofl!ice is a pleasant quonset hut. cool and clean. We live in tents, our food is good, there is plenty of beer, no shortage of cigarettes or cigars, the climate is not the best by any means, and I'd rather be home. 
"I trust you are well and safe. Here's hoping we may be back at N.D. fcr our first five-year reunion in 1946. My sincere reganis to you and all N.D. men you may meet." 
Lt. Georse Thompson was married in Maich. 1943. to Mary Louise McHenry of Parkersburg. 
W. Va. George reported for overseas duty in June and is now ser\*ing with the Third Army under Gen. Patton, somewhere in France. 1st Lt. George Greene recei%-ed his DD.S. in September. 1941. from Columbia University and is stationed in Carlisle, Pa. 
After completing 35 missions over Germany, 1st Lt. John Nevin McDonnell has returned to the states and is at Ellington Field. Tex. Lt. Bob Donin, pilot, based in England, had some time ago, completed eight of his missions. 
Most Rev. Michael J. Ready, LL.D. *41, was made bishop of Columbus, O., in a consecration ceremony in the Cathedral of St. Matthew the Apostle in Washington. D. C. ITie consecrating prelate was the apostolic delegate to the United States. Most Rev. Amieto Giovanni Cicocnani. 
Dr. Ed Brewer can now be located at St. Luke's HospiUl, 421 W. 113th St, N.Y.C. Pvt. Frank McGaire is statione<l at Camp Lee, Va. 
Bin Bcmbrock is employed, in the shipbuilding division of the Chicago Bridge and Iron Co., Seneca. III., as a piping engineer and super\-isor of drafting in the piping department. Walt Ber­nard. *36. and John and Hat Sagartz. *35. are also there. AH four men work on LST's. 
Milt PiepDl. backfield coach at Dartmouth, ad­dressed the Chicago Dartmouth club in the Uni­versity Club in December. Lt. Bnd Bernard, Youngstown, arrived home Christmas Day after 21 months* duty in the South Pacific-
In a letter from CpL Harold Sitt, dated Nov. 
16. 1944. written from New Guinea, he tells of other N.D. men stationed at his post—Andy Try, *39, and Jim Mann. ex. *40. CapL Clete Sckoem­mer had left the vicinity a short while before. 
A letter from Lt. (Jc) Bill Hawes announced the happy news that he was the proud father of a 
This group of Notre Dame men gathered some months ago for a Communion-breakfast on on island in the Pacific. Left to right are LL (|g) Ed Wrope, LL (jg) Dan O'ConnelL Lt. (ig) Jim Raof. Lt. (jg) Jerry Hickey and Lt Ed Beinor. Seated is LL Buckley, a Navy chaplain. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
new daughter, Susan Mary, who was born in In­dianapolis. Oct. 26. Susan's mother is George 0*Connor*a sister. Bill, stationed at the amphibi­ous trainint; base in Little Creek, Va., said sev­eral other N.D. men were there also—Al Kessinc* *40, Fred Carideo, Bob Ortale. *39, Joe Postupack. '42, and Tony Maloncy, *43. 
Lt. Ed McHaiches is with the first Army in Belgium. 
At the U.S. Naval Air Station. Jacksonville. Fla.. Joe Callahan. Dowa;;iac, Mich., received a promotion to lieutenant, je. Joe is attached to the materials procurement division of the assembly and repair department. 
From Tom Reia and Mike Lambert: 
"This letter is from Lt. Mike Lambert, USNK. 
•41. and Lt. <j» Tom Rcis, USNR. '41, both aboard a destroyer escort. We have served tojreth­er for 18 months on the same -ship. This was cer­tainly a wonderful break (havinp two N.D. men from the same class assigned to the same ^hip.) Our months on board have been full of many laughs, but the bitter goes with the sweet, and we both would gladly take a tour of duty at N.D. 
"Mike's brother, Lt. Pat Lambert, AAF. e.\ M6. Hies a P-47 Thunderbolt down in the thick of the Pacific fight. He's seeing plenty of action. 
"My brother. Lt. (jv) Jack Reis, *42, was sole surviving officer of his YMS which was sunk at Anzio. They went in six hours before everyone got there. It was plenty rough and Jack did a gcod job of saving lives, etc­
"It is no wonder that Mike and I have formed a *Hsroes Brother's Club' on the ship. 
"Among the N.D. guys we've seen since we've been in the Pacific nre the following: Tmck Schirf, on our sister ship; Hntdi Korth also on a DE: Frank Carey; Jack Shafranski; Harrj- Bev­oir; Frank Dowd on a sub i Pbil Lncier on the way back: Dave Meskill on the way back: Jerry O'Dowd, Bill Hawcs and Jim Hannisan, all LCI boys: Bob KariwrK on a can that's had lots of fights: Jim Spellman. Jack Lucas, dive bomber pilot now back in stateside. Many more friends have been seen and have alrerdy been mentioned in the 'Alumnus.' 
"It's naturally a shock to us to hear of our classmate's deaths, God rest their souls! 
"The first thing we want to do on our return to civilian life is go back to N.D. for a retreat. Has any such thing been planned?" 
Capt. James Wrape, after completing 52 mis­sions over Italy, is i>resently stationed in Galves?­ton, Te.x. 
From Lt. Dan Broderick. Melville. R. I.: 
"I have a little news regarding several Notre Dame men. which may interest you. Lt. Paul Lillis and Lt. Berni: Crimmins, *42, are both here at the PT training base, after several months as PT boat skipi>ers in the Pacific: Lt. Jay Reynolds is in the same category. Lt. Bunny McCormick. *S8. is an instructor here. Lt. Bob Meyers. Botch Esser, '35, and I are also here, having just re­turned from the Mediterranean area, where we. too, were PT boat skippers. While over there, I ran into Ray Clarke, captain in the Army, and in charge of an A.A. set-up on Sardinia; also Lt. Norman Duke, *31, and Lt. Fred Solari. '36. These latter two are connected with a PT squadron. Lt. Jade Boyle is a paratrooper and Lt. Tom (Red) Stevens is stationed aboard a heavy cruiser." 
Capt. Bill Spaldinic. Memphis. Tenn., winner of a Distinguished Unit Citation, has returned to the States after serving as an armament officer in Africa. Italy, and India for 28 months. Bill has fceen in the Army since September. 1941. 
 WiUiam E. Scaalni. Ill 


1942 Cpl. 
Pleasant St., Fartaie^ Wla. 

From Scoop Scanlon: 
While visiting one night in Chicago early in January, I ran into Ed Hoban* now a corporal at Vaughan General Hospital, near Chicasro. and he reported that Ted Leonas is there in the re­conditioning program, while Harry Lavcry is a patient, having been injured in France. Hoban is a reconditioner too. John Craddicfc. Joknny Nie­miera and Davis, a trio of the crack undergrad basketballers of our era. currently are starrine for Valley Forge Hospital, Hoban remembered, and that club recently swamped Fordham. Cony Clatt was last heard from in Texas but had a pos­sibility of getting to Vaughan Hospital. 
On Jan. 13 I attended the annual meeting of the Western Tennis Association at Chicago, and one of the delegates there was Catherine Wolf of Elkhart and a teacher at Washington high sdiool in South Bend. She had with her an air-mall let­ter from Pfc. Olen Parks that she shared with me. Parks, the tennis demon of our era, wrote the letter on Nov. 24 and it took over a month to arrive here from New Guinea. "Have seen combat and it's pretty rough," Parks wrote. On the sunny side, however, he recounted tennis matches he played eight months earlier in Honolulu and some­where in Australia. 
Arch Ward. "Chicago Tribune" sports ed., car­ried a note recently on the current exploits of Steve Basams. who divides his army time with footballing for Camp Haan. Calif. Lt. Bob White. ex. *42. and later star at Indiana, represented the Fifth Army in the Spaghetti Bowl fooball game at Florence. Italy, on New Year's Day. The "Chi­cago Daily News" of Jan. 5 carried an attractive two-column picture of the former Florence I. Molyneaux of Kenilworth, lU., the recent bride of Lt, Robert W. Haneravc. Yep. Mrs. H. is the St. Mary's grad. They were married in San Francisco, but Bob. on Jan. 5 at least, was stationed in Washington, D. C. Congrats, newlyweds. 
Also in the sportsvein, the Marine Corps "Chev­ron" announced that Lt. Bob Dove landed on the all-Pacific coast second all-star team for the 1944 season. 
Let's take a peek into the mailbag. Tliere's an air-mail from Lt, J. F. McNulty, who wrote from a San Francisco FPO address on Dec. 20: 
"A few days ago the October issue of the 'Alumnus' arrived and as usual was very wel­come. According to a report from Neil McC'arty in that issue I was in command of some sort of landing craft out here. About the only craft I've ever baen in command of is a LCVP and that's just about as small as you can go. 
"About July 15 I was transferred out of am­phibs and am now sort of a 'hotel manager* at one of the many advanced bases. The job consists of being manager of the officers* quarters and also treasurer of the officers' mess. Not long ago I was fortunate enough to get back to civiliza­tion for a short leave and although it wasn't as good as state-side duty it was a p'easant respite from the tropics. While down there I met Neil McCarty and danced with his date—first time I had danced in over a year. Bill Fallon had duty in the locality and I saw him several times and also Bemie Crimmins and Paul Lillts, who were supposed to be on their way home. Coleawn Me-Gnire. who has had some pretty rugged duty in the amphibs, was just starting his leave as I was finishing. 
"Don Hofan. Dave Devins and Bill Keycs have all been close to his base on various ships, and I have seen them in various places. Devins in­vited me aboard his ship for a wonderful steak-dinner. There are a few other N.D. men assigned to this base—Paul DeLay. *41. and Bad Carrol. 
of aboat *34, and also Kerrisaa. of '41, so you see we practically have a club." 
Now let's skip to another theater—to Lt, Bacii­cer* who wrote on Nov. 4: 
"It has been quite some time since you last heard from m ^ however, during the lapse I have added many miles to the distance between us. I am now overseas and have been enjoying some fine experiences In the land of our Allies—the British. All I can say is that I am stationed at present 'somewhere in EIngland.* My trip across was quite an education in itself, and I don't mind admitting that I had my share of the usual sea­sickness, too. 
"Because mail is very slow in catching up to me I have naturally heard very little news con­cerning our Alma Mater. However, tonis^t I just finished listening to a very clear broadcast of the Navy-Kotre Dame game, and. of course. I am dis­appointed at the final score. 
Eddie is a lieutenant with an infantry outfit. 
It was Dec. 12 that Lt. Paid Tafel. Jr.. air­mailed a swell letter from the Southwest Pacific: 
"Yes, it's actually been years and I've run into so many of the old gang. I'd better start with the beginning though. I swore in as naval cadet and reported to St. Louis for three months where Fraak FolfaMw'a family was a wonderful help. He n was sent to Pensacola where I went through regular flight training. While there I ran into Ed Hadcelt. who had just been commissioned with all that N.D. bunch out of Jacksonville. 
"Other cadets that came in while I was there were BUI BCcGratk. Joe Jmdith. John Hart. BiD FAky> *41. Joe Shield*, and a few others I can't recall now. I graduated on April 15. 1943, from Pensacola and reported to Lake City, Fla., where I flew PV*s for four months. Spent all my free time in Jacksonville and saw Larry Hidiey. Jim Bnitz. and Ed McLaacUin. After 15 days* leave, five in Asbury Park and the remainder in Louis­ville, I reported to Cherry Point, N. C. where I was put in Marine B-25s. Was fortunate enough to make frequent visits to Asbury Park (Deal. 
N. J.), and one very outstanding week-end was the N.D. vs. Army game where, I believe. I saw half of our class at the Pennsylvania Hotel. It was during the week-end. and Nancy Maloney and I began setting the wedding date. 
"Had dinner that week-end with Joe Cluuaplcy and Evelyne Zink. Our engagement was an­nounced officially in Pittsburgh during the Christ­mas season of 1943. We were married Feb. 12, 1944, by BCscr. Slwcn at St. Patrick's. New York City, and I had for ushers. Charlie Conner, Byran Kaaaley. Jerry KiOisrcir, Jack Saas, '41. Toat Walker* and my brother. BiU. We lived in New Bern, N. C. for a month, then Ft. Lauderdale and Boca Chira, Key West Fla., then back to Morehead City. N. C- Ran into friends all up and down Florida, and in Cherry Point we had Ed Rcidy living half a mile from us with his wife. 
**TaB Craain reported to Cherry Point later and I 8ew him to Chicago once, via Louisville. and St. Louis. Was ferrying ships back from Omaha and looked up Tom Wabh and spent a couple of nights with him. While we were in CP-my wife and I drove down to Atlanta to attend a wedding. Walt McCoart was in the affair and he was still instructing in instrument flying. He told me of Steve Graliker. Ed Dan!evy, and others that were there for a v.-hile­
"I was given a crew and plane and flew to the West Coast and my wife drove- Spent a month in El Centro, Calif., and contacted Bfaj. Jack Maas. USMCR who flew down in his F4U for lunch one day. We then stayed in L.A.. then to San Francisco, and I was stationed at Fair­field when I ran into an Army lieutenant who knew Jack Ganrcy very well, and I believe Jack was in South America. Flew to Honolulu and then on out here. Am now in an outfit with a lot of old friends and some N.D. boys: Frank Habiff. *39. Ed Krmase. *34, and McGannon. *38. Have run into some PT boat boys who have ser\'ed with Crimmlns and Lillis. Just the other day Byron Hayes* mother wrote of Byron's marriaRe and he is now in San Francisco after 21 months over-sens with the Navy. Larr>' Aubrey is ^till in Eu­rop3 and I just wrote him. 
**Bill Morrow was in New Mexico last I heard, end Crimroins is back from overseas and now is in New York. 1 think. Don't believe there is a day that passes or a trip taken that I don't run into N.D. Men. Habiff jrove me several back issues of the 'Alumnus' and they were so very interest­ing I've passed them on to Ed Krause. Father DnfFy was here for a while, but has been sent to Australia. I've served about half my time over here and hope to be retuminK soon. Really missed those football week-ends and certainly am lookinir forward to a bis class reunion. I intend to write you more often or whenever I get a lot of news together." 
A patient at Brooke General Hospital at Fort Sam Houston. Tex., on Jan. 5, Lt. Tom Powers uTote: ''Taking care of one of my New Year's resolutions right now. October wcs a lively month, especially because my brother. John, and I met Charlie Tobin one fine Saturday night in, of course, the Roosevelt bar. New Orleans. Charlie's the same fine fellow—a lieutenant, jg. and skip­per of a sub-chaser. Was with him that night and Sunday, and we covered the scene of '42 fairly well, though I could remember distinctly the conclusions we arrived at. 
"Tobin said he expected to go to Sub School in Florida soon and then out again. In Novem­ber my brother, John, was commissioned and as­signed to Pennsylvania. Was in Mobile, Ala., for the first half of December and home in Enid. Okla., for the other half. Johnny got h"s POM leave, and I managed mine at the same time. We had dinner with Lt. Devere Plunkett, formerly of 
N.D. faculty and now of the staff of the air cadet training program at the Enid AAF. De­vere is a first lieutennnt and looks great. He's doing a good job there and is busy. He'll vouch for Enid as being a fine town. Says Dippy Evans went through the Enid term a while before. I was in Tulsa for Christmas week-end and ran across the N.D.-Tulsa club's party but didn't en­counter any '42er or anyone I could remember, though I met Jvhn Moran, '25, who was in charge of a great party. 
"Upon termination of leav% I reported to Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio to take a three week course at the Provost Marshall General's school there- The first night in town, on the way to camp from a visit with my sister at Our Lady of the Lake College, I was walking through the night mist when a hand pulled me off the side­walk—the hand belonged to Fred B::ckman. the art major, and I proceeded to shake both the hand and Fred. His wife was with him. She's from South Bend. Fred is a staff sergeant and is a chaplain's aide at SAAACC, the air cadet center here. He's been here for some time and is able to continue much of his art work. 
"Also I have met another great Notre Dame alumnus here—he's Joe Menger, '25. His brother. Bill, is editor of the 'Southern Messenger,* the outstanding Catholic weekly for this part of the world. Joe's been bed-ridden for the past six years but has the indomitable cheerfulness and courage that only a true son of Our Lady can have. Had dinner with his illustrious family on New Year's Day and was supposed to be there again the 3rd but landed in the Brooke General Hospi­tal the afternoon of the 2nd. I suffered a cerebral concussion and severe gash of my lower lip. They say I ran into a base runner while going after 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
a grounder during a softball game but when I look at my face I swear a Mack truck had run into me. Didn't lose any teeth but look like a pouting Ubangi. Elxpcct to get back to PMG school in a week or so, and after the course is over, go back to my MP outfit in New Orleans and continue to wait for the call. ^Vh=t•s the latest on Paul Neville? 
"I got a Christmas card from Louis SdUmm, III, more familiarly known to the Freshman Hall crowd. He's in Italy, a captain. His card went through the postal directories of Camp Up­ton. Staten Island, Camp Butner. Camp Patrick Henry, New Orleans Army Air Base, Jackson Barracks—every post I've bren stationed at sinc3 coming into the Army, and to Enid, Okla.. and it «itill reached me four days before Christmas. Also got a nice one from Dick McHncli, end from Sfft. Joe Devine, ex. '42." 
V-mailed from Bizerte in North Africa was a Christmas greeting from Steve Pavela. seaman first class. Said he exjiected to move shortly. Dr< Paul Bartholomew wrote late in December, iraint­ing out that workmen are in the process of re­modeling the lower dormitory of old Brownson Hall into classrooms, that the name of the Politics Department has be3n officiaKy changed to "De­partment of Political Science." and that he hasn't heard from Jesse Sutherland in more than a year. 
Ens. George Uhl, still studj-ing the Navy way at MIT, Cambridge. Mass., wrote on Jan. 8: 
"I was in New York the wesk-end of New Year's and had a fine time- On Saturday night I was at the New Rochelle College dance with Rosemary Keenan and we ran into Fred Paal­mann. Wasn't able to contact Bob Gzicer, who's still at the Merchant Marine academy. 
"I met another Notre Dame m-n here, who's just come to MIT in radar. He's Bob Wille* chem engineer of about '40. and from Cincinnati. John Hanifin is here now, and what's happened to my roommate. John Donnelb'. and Gene Hatmadier?" 
Married life must be grand. Hare comes a let­ter from the Rices — Flight Officer and Mrs. James (Red) Rice. Yep. the Missus wrote. These newlywcds now live in Hanford. Calif., while Jim is stationed at Lemoore Field. Calif. "Jim has been assigned to a crew and now we're awaiting his orders to be sent to another field for OTU." And Jim added a postscr'pt: "Can't h::ve a wife and write letters ijoth." 
Here's a contribution from Lt. Tom Henney* 

from the Army air base at Courtland, Ala.: 
"I was all set to fly over the old home town. 

Portage. Wis., on a routine cross country flight, 
but due to weather conditions had to change the 
flight plans at the last minute. That v.-as a choice 
bit of news to learn about Red Rice getting mar­
ried. He's probably in B-24s. so I may run into 
him some time. I haven't seen any N D. fellows 
in a couple of months now, though I did run 
into Joe Risney, '44. and Jack MeCabs, '44. They 
were .«ent to Westorey Field, Mass." 
At least three Notre Darners are also at Fort Sheridan. Lcieh Snllivan is inter\-iewing men being discharged from the Army in the classification department. Bill Murphy is assigned to the sup­ply section at the Separation Center, and Bill Sticklen works at the Bakers and Cooks school, bread department. Sticklen, former Notre Dame freshman cage star, remembers playing against Bill Hassctt, current Irish guard. 
Now we come up with a newsy communique from Mrs. Lora Lashbrook, dependable chronicler of things done the lawyer v.-ay. On Jan. 16 she wrote: 
"The holidays season brought news from a number of lawyers who had bean somewhat delin­
quent in the matter of correspondence. Among them was Graham McGowan. who gives us an Air Corps address at Eagle Pass. Tex. The last we had heard from Graham he was a 'casualty' from the ERC. 
"Lt. Joe Barr. USMC, writes a fine letter from his base in the Mariannas. but with the exception of assuring us of his well being at the moment. gives little information other than to report the fact thnt.he is definitely NOT in a rest camp. He thinks he will not get home for awhile, but says that since an officer there appeared in a shining new automobile recently, he thinks anything can happen. 
"Lt. Ray Quinn of the AAF is back in the 

U.S.A. and his letter was postmarked Ellington Field, Tex., and promised a visit at Notre Dame soon. Ray has completed flying missions over Europe and is back for a rest. Tom Mahcr, re­cently discharged from the Army, is busy at his practice in Pittsburgh. Lt. <«) Jerry Fccney, USNR. wrote on Jan. 9 from th? Pacific and re­ports having seen and visited with John Woertz, who is also on sea duty on an AKA ship. Jerry seems fortunate in running into N.D. men on the occasions that he gets shore leave. A card cams fn»n Joe Lavery, now in Europe. At the s:tme time Joe's wife sent us a new picture of their son. and in the accompanying note said that at last she had learned definitely that Joe took part in the D-Day landings in Eurcpe and that since then he has been hospitalized but is agrin on duty. 
"Another interesting photogrcph of a member of the class of 1964 came from the Robert Sulli­van's. "Die captain is still overseas, and the pic­ture of the son came from Cleveland v.-here Mrs. Sullivan and young David ere awaiting his re­turn. 
"Two letters arrived recently from Lt. Alex Cholis, who also sent a new picture displaying a beautiful new mustache, which, he tells m? Ister. he removed as soon as he saw the pictures. Alex has baen in North Africa, Italy. France. B2lgium and now Holland. He has visited that part of Germany now held by the Allies. He is the second lawyer to write from Germany. The other was Don Patrick, who is with a tank destroyer unit helping to drive the enemy back on their own ground. 
"Walt Jones sent his grestings from San An­tonio, Tex., from an AAF base. The last we heard from Walt he was training to Le an MP at Fort Custer. Mich. Tim Green is now Candi­date Green at the Fort Belvoir. Va.. OCS, after having served several months at Fort Leonard Wood. Ma Next it will be Lt. Gresn. Lt. (jg) Martha Hosinski. presently stationed at the U. of New Mexico with the Navy, forwarded the Christ­mas message for herself and Lt. Bill Hosinski of the Army. The Army ought to do som3thing about his commission, and we suggest they skip the cap­tain's rank and make him a major. His six feet plus is an advantage, of course. 
"About the most welcome news we had during the holiday season came from Peter T. Alonzi, whose address we furnish by request: It is SK 2/c. 700-13-21 Brks 173. Treasure Island. Calif. It would have been too much to expect that he would have sent along a note, but this much en­courages us. Attorney Hal E. Hunter wrote us on new letter heads announcing the location of his law office in New Madrid, Mo. The cause of law and order in that section of Missouri and the midu-est can expect to feel an immediate im­provement. 
"Pat Flanagan was a candidate for admission to the Ohio bar as of this month, but his last letter indicated he was considering opening a night club in the Cincinnati area. Lt. end Mrs. 
C. G. Haason wrote from Aurora, Colo., where they are living while Charles is instrucf ing 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ground crews for the Army Air Corps. From somewhere in the South Pacific a V-mailed ereet­ins came from Ens. James F. McVay. 
"Nidc ViUarosm was in for an hour or so on Jan. 13. By the time this gets into print we ex­pect he will have a European address. John Bncz­kowski was in for a visit a few weeks ago but I missed him because I was on vacation at the time. He believed he might be headed for over­seas duty with a medical unit but this has not been verified. 
"An extremely interesting and informative let­ter came this week from Bill Spangler. now sta­tioned in India. He is doing some legal work for the Army and has had some unusual experiences in the 'land of mysticism.* Some time ago a letter C3me from Gerald Kamm, who is with the Al­lied Supreme Command in Europe. He has had a promotion and is still doing legal work, which is always a break for lawyers. 
"Bob Richardson took time to write a note. He is now in charge of a region for the FBI and is stationed at Lumberton, N. C. He complains of the lack of social life there, but otherwise likes the work. He inquires about Dick Swisiwr, but about all we can report from Dick is that he did go to California and expected to divide his time between practicing law and a sheep ranch. We haven't heard which of the two interests has claimed so much of his time he can find no occa­sion to report his activities. 
"Joe Barr told us that he had seen Lt. (jg) Jerry 0*Dowd and that he was planning to go aboard Jerry's ship. The bad news is beginning to reach us too and we must add another name to the list of those that are lost. The first was Paol Kadimer. Now we learn that the 
U.S.S. Cooper was sunk in action off the Philip­pines on Dec. 5, and that among the missing is Lt- (iff) Jerry KiDiffrew. There is, as this is written^ a chance he may have been picked up by the enemy since the newspaper accounts of the ship's action report that some Japs had been picked up by our ships and that possibly some of our men may have been picked up by the enemy. [Ed's, note: I>ater—tragically, that hope has been dissolved. See 'Deaths/ this issue.]" 
The lull has been long, but here's something worth waiting for. a newsy message from Bob Kclioe, dated Rochester. N. Y.. on Jan. 13: 
"In fulfillment of a New Year's resolution I'm penning my first letter to let the class of '42 know of my whereabouts. Lots of things have happened since I last saw the class on May 10, 1942. I did a year's graduate work at the U. of Chicago and while there I lived in the same house for some months with Pete Moulter and on a number of occasions I had the pleasure of long chats with our barrister friend, Harry Murray. 
"After leaving Chicago I spent six happy weeks at St Joseph's Novitiate at Rolling Prairie. Ind., but decided that God had other plans for me. I then returned to the old home town, Rochester. N. Y., where I have been doing social work with the Rodiester Catholic Charities. In the fall of '43, I met quite a few of the boys in New York at the Army game, including Tommy Powera, Ralph Gerra and Panl Neville. Previous to that, I had a nice chat at Langley field with Paul who was then stationed there. Following the game I had several letters from Tom. but I guess they stopped when I got negligent Wish he'd pick up where we left off and send along his address. [Same is being sent you. Bob]. 
"Have also corresponded with Red Ford (What happened to you, Bud?) and just last week I re­ceived letters from Jerry KiUigrew and Blarty McLaacUin; the former is in the Pacific and the latter is in India. Gosh! these guys are all over the world. Spent the evening a week ago with Dom Lociiidicet who was visiting his fiancee in 
Rochester. Don plans to get married in the sprinir, 
after he graduates from Georgetown Hed sdiool. 
"A few weeks ago I was sitting in the interne's quarters at Rochester Cieneral Hospital talking to Dr. Jade Keegan, '41, when the 'phone rans and the voice at the other end was requesting^ Jade to be best man—for guess who? Well, none other than Hany Zimmer. I know lots of the bom vill be glad to know that Zim and Rita finally cli­maxed that heavy correspondence in the happiest of ways. The U. of Rochester Hed school has be­come popular for N.D. boys. Jack Dmaran and Pete Stewart should be just about finished. From what his colleagues have told me. Jack has won over the girls in Rochester the sume as he did out South Bend way. 
"This summer I had a fine two-day visit with Bob Fagan in Bath. N. Y. Bob is now at Holy Cross Seminary in Washington, and. God willing. the class of *42 is going to be blessed some day with a splendid priest in Bob. Up until a few mo­ments ago, I have been playing quite a bit of golf and handball with Jade Hedges, ex. '43. How­ever, all this was interrupted by his joining the Navy and he's now stationed at Bainbridge Naval Base. I have seen the Army's No. 1 muscle massager, Stanley Murray, '43, a number of times as Stan seems to have an in with his CO. Good for himt Bob Daffy, former phy-ed, dn^ped in on me one day and we met Panl O'ConneO, '44, and had a grand session over a couple of brews. Bob had been out to sea for a couple of years and he had a nifty big beard to prove i t 
"Well, Scoop. I've covered a lot of ground but there is one more item I must report before dol­ing. At Christmas I got myself engaged to IGss Kathryn Darby of Le Roy, N. Y. She is a norse at St Mary's hospital in Rochester. I've waited for a long time for this but never in my fondest hopes and prayers at the Grotto did I think that . Our Lady would take as good care of me as she has. Don't know when we'll be married, hot I hope it's soon. I want all the boys in service to know that you are all in my prayers daily. And to the parents and loved ones of those I knew who have made the Supreme Sacrifice. I want them to know that I remember their boys in the Memento for the Dead in each Mass I assist a t I'd like to hear from some of you-^my address is 377 Hay­ward Ave., Rochester 9, N. Y-" 
That's all I have for now, but till next time remember: IF IT'S NEWa WRITE SCOOF 
Present whereabouts: Joe Post«pack, lieutenant Jg, n.S.N. Hospital. Norfolk. Va.; Lt Bil Dnnne, Chicago, pilot in the TJ. S. Army, APO, N.Y.C; Ens. Bill Haaae, Bay City. Mich., star tioned in Norfolk. Va.; Dong Hakyf S 2yc at; tending fire control school at Great Z«akes and attending classes in the evening, learning Jiqui­nese; Sgt Bob Uhl, South Bend, serving at Rose­crans Held, S t Joseph. Mo. 
An Oak Leaf Ouster to the DFO has been awarded to Capt Bob Sheelian, Tulsa, Okla.. for "extraordinary achievement while serving as pilot of a B-24 on many bombat4ment missions over enemy occupied (Continental Europe." Besides the DFG Bob also holds the Air Medal with three Oak Leaf CHusters. 
From Lt. Jim Gait, lUdgway, III., came a note with the information that he is in a hospital in South Wales, England, nursing an injury sus­tained in the invasion of Normandy in Jaly. Also recovering in a hospital in the TT.S>A.» from ma­chine gun wounds, is Sgt. Joe Lalher. Soath Bend. Joe has received the Purple Heart; he was wounded during heavy fighting near Paris. 
The latest address on file for CpL J«fai Q. O'Conndl is an APO out of N.Y.C. Lt. Lanr KcBty, who spent 13 months in the Padfie war 
zone as the skipper of a PT boat has haen 
awarded the Bronae Medal for extraorfiaanr 
bravery and the Purple Heart, He partie^atad in 
landing operatltms in Motor IVnpedoboat Sgoad­
ron No. 21, whidi received the Pzesidential Vu t 
(Station for ontstandinr perfmnaanee. I^n y i»­
tnmed home several months ago and hm feai MNN 
eral operations on his right arm. iriiich was m­
jored by an enen^ diore battery. In the beat of 
battle he was thrown into the Padfie and 
dragged throoi^ the water by a P-T boat for 
more than a mile. 
A letter from Bifl Baader's father, ChilHcothe, O.. reads as follows: "Bill left yesterday (Jan. 
2) for New London, Conn., to enter the sahmm­rine sduwl of training, after spending 14 months in the Sooth Padfie on a P.C. boat (sabnarine chaser) as a deck officer. Bill looks and feels fine and seems to be on the beam, anxioaa and willing for this cmd war to be over soon." 
A release from an Eighth Air Force Bonber Station in Ehgland reveals that Ist L t Bfli Wm­ter, Anbom, N. T., navigator on a B-17 flying Fortress, has been awarded the fourth Oak Leaf Cluster to his Air Medal. The award was for "meritorious achievement" during bomUng at­tacks on Nazi war industries and military targets ­in support of Allied ground forces. 
At a liberator base of the ES^th Air IV>ree, England. 1st Lt. Tmm H«yer» South Bend; has as­sumed the duties of information officer of a homr bardment group. He is preparing refiresher and postwar vocational courses for men stationed at the base 
A letter from T/S Jelui Kraiaiak says that he is somewhere in Belgium. John, whose home is in Detroit; has been in the Army for two and one-half years. Ditto from L t (jg) Ji a XdEber. who writes from England — "For the past IS nxinths I have been in the Mediterranean area and up here. The last Notre Dame man I saw was Fred Gere* meieting him at Mass. Dec. 8." 
EaSL MsBiy Leaders, Casper, Wyo., is fiyins a Catalina P-3Y. 
A late note arrived from Bill Hickcy, now a civilian in Chieaga Let him tdl the story: 
"When I last wrote, I was in a hospital—as a result of the hospitalization the Navy Departratnt decided that they could function without my services, so I have been back at the dvilian oeen­patitm of steel salesman. And then, too, Pat Mar­shall, mi e Rock, Vintage of *44.' and I became engaged just before Christmas. 
"As to notes on classnutes: Steve Graliker was in Chicago for a couple of days around Dec: 15 to check out on the Lake Michigan *flat tops.' He expects overseas du ^ pronta Bill SatiWtts has written a couple of times from Italy^^iad been there three weeks. Byraa Kaaalty was in Chicago for Christmas and his 'oigagement was an­nounced, to a swell girl from New RocheDe. whom I met while out there a month ago." 
Here's a late note from Mrs. Lashbroc^, dated Jan. 17: 
"I have a letter from Jim Direr today, just after I mailed the earlier report He writes from Gennany on Dec 15 and I know his former class­mates will want to know that the war has not changed Jim too mudi. The letter was being writ­ten at 2 a-m. The Oliver Hotel influence remains. He has been in Trmnee, Bdgium and Germany since our last letter. He espedally wants to hear soraethinff about his former "partners,* Jalmay Mcyenk Mike Stepavkh. Jim Daaer. Jim McYay and others. We will have to report no news fioas Mejrers since he was married months agol Stepo­vidi was last reported at Shoemaker, Oilif. Daa^ is out with the Air Corps in the Padfie; and Me­
Vay on his ship in the Southwest Pacific. McVay wrote at Christmas time but there has been no news from the other three for several weeks." 
1st Lt. Loais Podmch, Wausau. Wis., a den­tist, is serving with the medical corps and has an APO out of N.Y.C. L t (je) Gsorge S^bek has seen service in the Caribbean area with the Navy. Recently he was at home in Hammond, Ind., and was down to the campus for a visit. His brother, Andy, is a member of the present basketball squad. 
 Edward C. Roney, 1723 Iro­


1943 Ensim 
Oois Arc, Detroit, Midu; Robert Loncrean, The Chicago Tribune, Chi­caffo. 
From Ed Roney (written Nov. 15, received too late for the December issue): 
It's plenty good to be back at the old t^*pe­writer and getting you my share of the column. I missed the last issue as I was at an advanced base on detached duty and didn't have either the information or the time to write anything. 
The two biggest items in the October "Alum­nus" concern the class's excellent showing in the second annual alumni fund and the first death of, I believe, the first father in the class, Ed McKim. His record proved he was just what we all thought, a good tough, clean fighting man, an officer the Marines and Notre Dame can be proud of. His son. Michael, who should be ready for about the class of 1960, has a good and noble record to live up to. Mine and the class's sympa­thy go to his beautiful and charming wife. 
As of the October issue we led the other classes in the percentage of contributors to the Second Alumni Fund, having slightly over half the class represented. (Ed's Note: The class finished the fNind well out in advance of all young competi­tors. See report in this issue Congratulations!) 
Looks like the class is taking an active part in starting Notre Dame clubs all over the world. Now it's Paal Toland in Alaska. Good going, Paul! We'll all have something to talk about at that first reunion of ours- Jack Garvey, the "class ring" man of M2, just joined our little group down here. He's been here longer than the rest of us but had been unknown until about a month ago. I still haven't seen him but will when I re­turn to my.regular duties. 
Now for the letters since last time. The first is from Quince Storm. He writes from down near where the Aussies group up: "Received the June copy of the 'Alumnus' which it seems appears much too seldom, and aUvays furnishes a supply of pleasant reminiscences. Life here in New Guin­ea is even more affable than the summer session in 309 at N.D.: the most strenuous thing I've done to date is to audit the hooks of the ofiirers' club whidi is a veritable Gus's. being as it's as easy to have the bar-Keep pop shooting a seven on the third hole. 
"Had the local color of the school in the 'per­sona grata' of Clair Lambert, Bud Murray, of the previous class. Good old Bud McCafferty (I hope he's made it back to the states) and a fair fac­simile of Mike the Mascot." 
Really good to hear from you, old man. and Jim Girard says that he wishes he could see an officers' club long enough to add to the books, let alone, audit them. That PC duty doesn't exactly give one much time for it. 
Next we hear &om writer Fred Gore who 
•when he wrote was on the invasion front. Says Fred, "Since last writing you. Joe Callahan and i have nm into quite a few of the boys from in­doctrination class and also from good old N.D. Went aboard Loa Kurtz's ship and, after an old fashioned bull session, Louis 'the Provider,' breaks out with a bottle of rum, coke syrup and some seltzer. We collapsed with surprise at that, tor it had been so Ion?. Also saw Frank CvaMins. '42, who was scheduled for a long visit but couldn't make it with us. Jim HcElroy, an old shipmate of the 'Yacht Club,' and Gail Fitck have been over for a good N.D. session. 
"Gail and I were on the beach in Normandy at the same time, high and dry. At low tide I went over to see him, and since he had closed the bow doors I asked for a ladder to come up the idde, only 35 feet. He threw me a line and says, 'You should be in shape, climb up this.' I've been stiff in alt joints ever since. 
"Talked to footballer Adamonift, '40, the other night at the officers' club and we hashed over old games. He said he had just missed seeing Benny Sheridan in a naval officer's uniform. I didn't know Benny was in the Navy, did you? [Ed's note: As far as the Alumni Office knows, he's overseas as a cavalry captain.] He also saw Cole­man of the pro football fame up in the north of the isle." 
Another 'V-MaiF from Stan Pyritz in Italy came some time aga Stan comes through with, "Guess who I ran into? Tom MitdielL He was at­tached to the corps for about a month. We had a good many bull sessions, so I'll pass on to you what I learned. Mitch's brother is over here now somewhere, and Mitch is at present in the medi­cal corps as an ambulance driver. That's tough going over here. 
"Gerry Shea is supposed to be with an artillery outfit, around Rome the last time Mitch heard. And Mitch would like Jim to write him." 
I've notified him by showing him the letters, so Tom can expect a letter soon. 
My mother just wrote yesterday that Jim Byrne's father fell dead a few days ago. Jim was fortunate enough to be able to get home for the funeral from training in Miami. Jim and his fa­ther were even closer than most fathers and sons are, and his friends all extend him their heart­felt sj'mpathies. 
From Red Lonergrans 
TTie mail situation took a definite turn for the better this time. Bill O'Neil just missed the last "Alumnus" with this swell letter: 
"I have been stationed, at the headquarters of the Fourth Air Force in San Francisco since Jan. 1, 1944. During that time I have run into many of the fellows from the school; most of them passing through to the Pacific. 
"Bob Rocers was stationed down the coast at Avila for a while. We got together for several week-ends. However, since then he was shipped to Florida for some amphibious training. Oren Stieiu was in and out of port several times, but now he is shipping out of New York. I saw Marie Lies one night for about 15 minutes; he had been in the Aleutians for 18 months and was headed right back out again. 
"At various times in the last several, months I have seen Hog Cammingv, Tom HiUer, DaAcy K> Smith, John O'Brien, '41. Through unofficial channels, I heard that Lee Ra5mond was cited for meritorius work at Guadalcanal. Forgot ,to mention Chock Kane passed through here on a crash boat quite a few months ago." 
Here's another fine letter from Bill Tracy: 
"In all my time in the Army I never ran across any Notre Dame men until just this week. The first five months of my training were spent in Camp Robinson, Ark. After my transfer over to Gruber, I ran into Hike Graer, while attending Mass one afternoon. We had quite a chat, and he told roe he had met my brother, Joe, in Florida. 
From his reports. Joe is still stationed in Fort Meyer. I am still at the Gruber as a physical edu­cation instructor. This is really a swell set-up. but it isn't permanent. While on my furlough I was able to get up to school and see Mr. Arm­stranr and all the boys back in the fieldhouse. I heard from Dippy Evans, who had just about completed his training at Randolph Field." 
We received a tragic note from Marge Wiggins that her brother, Pfc. Jack Wigxins, was re­ported missing in action in Holland on Nov. 2. Jack was senior football manager in his last year at Notre Dame, and in all of his letters from France and Holland he had said he was winning money on Notre Dame football games. Jack went overseas approximately the last week in August. We hope this sad letter will be followed by one bearing good news, and we can aid in making this hope a reality by remembering Jack in our prayers. 
Bill Scanlan is back at Ft. Sheridan vnth the department of orientation. We had a good old fashioned Notre Dame bull session there one day. I see quite a bit of Bob Kaipers, who is still res­ervations manager for Braniff Airways. Bob spent New Years Day with a boy who was with us during our freshman year, Jim Hanley. Jim is a first lieutenant in the Army Air Corps, and is now attached to the chemical warfare division of the Third Army air force at Barksdale Field. La- Jim is now living in the Y.M.C.A. at Shreve­port. and had been in all the campaigns from the African to the Italian, inclusive. \Vhen he came back to the States he announced his engagement to Grace Littig of Evanston. 111. 
Jim Ford, a senior and Pfc. at the Northwest-cm medical school will be graduated this June and will do his internship at Cook County Hospi­tal here. His brother. Bill, is also at Northwestern and a senior. Bill will graduate in September and will then go into sennce as an officer. . . . Eddy Ryan is now on furlough, following his boot training down in Texas. After the furlough he will be sent overseas, he believes. 
About two weeks ago Dick. McHugh took off from his farm duties down at Manhattan. 111., long enough to come up to Chicago and sec us. He has been very busy producing food and has had to operate a large farm on his own, due to the labor shortage. Bob Knipers said he had a very interesting chat the other night with Jim Finn, who is now employed in one of Chicago's big defense factories. An officer in the Merchant Marine walked into the office a few days ago and told me that Grer Rice had said to say hello. He was not a Notre Dame man, but he surely gave roe a sales line on Greg. He said Greg is one of the best liked men at the Merchant Marine acad­emy on Long Island. 
Kev OTooIe is a first lieutenant with the Ma­rines and is still stationed on Saipan. We re­ceived a very nice note from Thomas Griffin, father of Lt. John J, Griffin, who is now in the combat crew, stationed at Mountain Home, Idaho. Jack was graduated as a narigator from the San Marcos Army Air field and was commissioned a second lieutenant last Nov. 18. After 10 days at Lincoln, Nebr., he was shipped to Mountain Home, where he is now in operational training. How about some more of those fine family notes? 
Loaie Caniso, now a pfc. stationed at Camp Ellis, 111., sent us this ilewsy letter: 
"I suspect that you don't remember me. I lived in 349 Sorin in the year '42. I was quite a friend of Ker OTooIe and Joe Norris. It is for informa­tion about thero that I write this letter. It has been a long time since I've heard much about them, and any information as to their where­abouts would be greatly appreciated by roe. Red. 
"Unlike most of the old N.D. buddies of ours I have had it pretty easy. I recently left Madison, 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Wis., where we administrated correspondence study for service men. I met Bill Keenan* former '33 man, up there, and saw Bill Frye a couple of times. Bill is married and attending medical school under some Navy program. Since I've been down here at Ellis, about the only N.D. man I've seen is Capt. Paul Brannan of the class of '34. I am presently wrapped up in military personnel work, reading leading articles in my spare time. Notre Dame seems so long ago. I'd give anything to see old Kev and Joe. So, please get their ad­dresses for me." 
Set. Fred Christman, now stationed at San Francisco, sent in this swell letter: 
"Several months have passed since I last wrote to you, and once again I have changed locations. The last of July finished my stay in New York and then I went to Washington where I was on 30-day temporary duty. . . . Before the 30 days were up. I received an overseas assignment. . • ­I finally arrived here in the Hawaiian Islands in October. A couple of Sundays ago I attended the alumni meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Hon­olulu. To my surprise, I found a rather large attendance. There were men from the classes of 1925 through 1945. Our class was well represent­ed. Here are some of the fellows who were there: Mark Pfaller, John Boyle. Hank ReiUy, Bill Un-Kaahick and John Wiethoff. It was great to see them again-A fellow from the class of 1945. Bfarshall, brought the junior and senior year­books with him and we all enjoyed refreshing our memories of those wonderful days spent on the cnmpus. In the minutes of the secretary's report, I found the names of other fellows who have at­tended preivous meetings but were not present at this meeting. They are: Vindgnerra. Tom Con­ley. Fred Engiefaart, Bob Faaght. Frank Fitz­patrick, Don Guy, Bob Mnellman, John Nidiolson, Dudley Smith and John Tobin. Frank Leahr was able to attend the meeting later in the afternoon. Matt Bolger and Marty Peters were there. . . . Thanks for the note about Pete Moritz. I had a letter from Pete a couple of days ago. He is making good progress and he really has the old Notre Dame spirit. He said that Our Blessed Mother had not forgotten the devotion that he and all of us had for her during our days on the campus. 
"I had a V-Mail letter from Jim Poinsatte. He is now somewhere in France." 
Vince Comissa came through with his usual super letter again this month: 
"I am doing a bit of teaching school in New­ark, but that isn't enough work; I get mad with all these hours off. . . . Right now I am waiting for Dippy Evans to call from New York or the station. I saw him last Saturday and sat with him through the Randolph Eleld-Second Air Force game. Dip couldn't play because of a pulled mus­cle in his leg. . . . He said he finally heard from Bod Dudley, who had about 30 missions to his credit over in Italy. Dippy ran into Harry Wright when he played in Los Angeles. Bemie Crimmins and Paul LilUs were in New York a short while ago, but I missed them. Dippy had breakkfast with them and claimed Milt Piepnl was also in Manhattan. 
"My brother, Sol. has been organizing touch football teams and boxing teams over in France. His program is running close to 300 games n week. I heard from Tom Brock, who is in Guam, raising chickens. The boy is just a farmer at heart, and all my Jersey talk for three years went for naught. He said that BertelU had landed on Guam a few weeks ago; he is athletic officer. Rebel Lanahan has knocked off about eight on the last report." 
Just a few days ago Bob Knipers invited me to lunch with him and Tony Girolami. Tony is a first lieutenant in the Army. He had been in training at Fort Benning but believed he would be sent to another camp for further training and then over-
Two days later a call came in from the Munici­pal Airport and your bewildered corre^;>ondent enjoyed 10 minutes with Lt. Frank Leaky, who was just back from the Pacific on official busi­ness. Lt. Leahy is assigned to submarine detail. in charge of installing and directing athletic activities in that branch of the Navy in the South Pacific. He had enjoyed chats with Aasda Bertelli and Tom Brock. . . . While waiting for plane connections from Hawaii to Oakland. Calif., he witnessed the service game at Honolulu. and afterwards had a short gab fest with Lav Rymkas» who had played in the game. 
You're doing swell on the correspondence. Let's keep it up! 
Ensc Tom Miller returned from service with the Pacific fleet to a* Navy rest camp in Idaho. 2nd Lt. John Griffin. Chicago, is navigator of a B-24. Another newly commissioned officer, Znd Lt. Joe Corgan. Alma, Mich., graduated as a B-24 bomber pilot at Fort Worth Army Air field. Capt. Ed Kunkle. South Bend, was at Fort Worth also. Ed returned to the states in April. 1944. after several months of duty in Italy as a B-24 pilot. 
1st Lt. John Ryder. Hudson Falls, N. Y., dis­played the teamwork which enabled the AAF to do so well in its battles with the Luftwaffe, when, with a fellow Mustang fighter pilot while on an escort mission to Austria, he shared in the de­struction of an ME 109 in November, 1944. 
Writing from his Marine base out in the Pa­cific, Lt. George Murphy says that he was sit­ing in his tent one night recently when the tent flap was lifted and in walked Lt. Ed Kraaae. George said they played every '44 Notre Dame football game over again—and arrived at some harsh conclusions about that Army affair. 
A letter from Bob LeMens?. this time stationed at Fort Benning, Ga., in OCS. (along with Rancc Haig. ex. '45) says that he ran into Bob Dune* Tom O'Reilly, and Elmer Silha. Larry Hyers, Sharon. Pa., received his commission of ensign in the Naval Reserve and was designated a naval aviator at the naval air training bases, Pensa­cola, Fla. 
After being wounded on D-Day. captured by the Germans and then recaptured by the Yanks who moved ahead faster than the krauts had ex­pected, Sgt. Bob Towner is now with the lOlfft Airborne division in Europe. As of Jan. 8. Lt. Dippy Evans expected to return to Randolph Held in the capacity of instructor for a few weeks and then to be sent overseas as a fighter pilot The property of the Chicago Bears, Dipper expects to play a year or so of pro football after the war. 
Lt. (jg) Bill 'Nicholson spent in South Bend a well-earned leave from his duties with the Pacific fleet. Lt. Bill Shea, Evanston, III., who was In­jured in action in France the latter part of Au­gust and hospitalized in England, expected to be returned to the United States when his mother wrote a good while ago. 
Six former Notre Dame athletes, including Lt. Frank Leahy, head coach and director of athletics now on leave for the duration, met at an ad­vanced base out in the Pacific recently, and promptly called a meeting of the "Notre Dame Club of the Pacific." The men were Ena. Jack Wiethoff, pole vaulter; Ens. John Hidey, *44. former varsity first baseman; Ens. Ral|A Viad­querra, basketball: Lt. Leahy, '31. Ena. BoMy Faoght. '44, and Lt. Ray Brandwaa. *34. former football star. 
S Zje Jmkm Bull, West Los Angeles, Calif., is one of 86 men sent to Colgate Univer^ty for training in the Navy Academic Refredier Unit (V-7). Jdin will take 16 weeks' work at Colgate before entering a midshipmen's school. 
With the Marine engineers on a Pacific island is Pf c Bab HacfcMr, La Crosse; Wis. 
Daa Grant was back from the Padfic and spent a few days with his wife and six months' old daughter In Newport. R. L, at Christmas. His brother, Gerry, ex. '43. is in Germany, having taken a continental tour via England. France, (landed on D-Day). Belgium and Holland. He was awarded the Bronze Star for meritorioQS con­duct in action In FVance, is a master sergeant and the prood father of a lovely baby giri. Gerry's wife is a sister of the late Bill BeynaMa and the mother and daughter are with the Remolds In Asheville. N. C. 
Congratulations to Ed Marray. who received a promotion to lieutenant, jg. Ed is in the Pacific Two alumni dnqiped in the office in the middle of January. They were Lt. (jg) Gail Fitdk Oak Park. III., back from the European area after 18 months on an LST. and Bob Raff, '44. metallur­gist in Cicero, III. Gail, home for Christmas on a 30-day leave, was to report to the west coast. 
Lt. (jg) Dm Hcltael writes: "Made the assault on Leyte on the 20th of October. Notre Dame was rather well represented, in our sector at least, but am afraid I can't go into detaU. The assault and fleet action were rou^i—^not to men­tion the continuous day and night air raids. The Japs are tenadoos . . . we icnocked down a Jap fighter (the one that they call the Zero back In the States) one day and have helped with a couple of bcMnbers.. Much else has hcppened. but the Seventh Fleet has given us an okay to talk only in generalities." Don sent the regards of Jae Dray. '39, who Is out in them parts too. 
From Ed Roncy (on Jan. 13): 
I was able to be with my family for the holi­d.-:y3. Ji a GIrard took his ship Stateside and was home just before Christmss, so when I went through Miami I missed him. He's executive offi­cer of his ship. While home I talked with Ed Hicfcey'a mother and father and found out that Ed had been home abont a month before. He Is as­sistant navigator and landing ofiScer. Ihey told me that In one of the landings he was ashore and misdng f<H' four days. When he returned to the ship they threw a party for him. Bak Oster­aua, '41. is with him. 
Jiai Byrae. according to the news around De­troit. 13 now on the Padfic somewhere. I received a Christmas card from Bob Rogers and on the way back through Miami I talked with him for all of five minutes. He had seen Jiia Girard and Jack Beia there. Frank Carran was with him In Miami and Key West for awhile. Bob was finished training and is awaiting a PGM at the moment. Jack has a real story to tell If he'll release It to us. 
Bab FiAer, '44. is also down there In PGM training. He managed to make Detroit for the holidays and I talked to him there. 
I heard in Detroit that BUI O'CanneO and Gcarce Beberdy are still plugging along at Jef­ferson med sdiool in Philly and that La^s La­jaie is doing likewise at Wayne U. In Detroit. All three seem to be near the top of their classes. 
Hie class had another bit of bad news early in December when Jade Lagroa, who left our class In our junior year to join the Navy Air Corps, was killed somewhere in the Padfic. He was from Detroit and most of our Detroit crowd knew him through both high school and college. Alwajrs cheerful and a swell egg. Jack is a loss not easily forgotten. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
On the way south again I stopped in Cincinnati for a few nunutes and again called Jade Gllli-Kun*» mother. Slie told me that Jack had also heen home about a month before and vras again at sea, this time on the Pacific after being in three of the European landings. His two brothers finish Notre Dame this spring and so there will be three GilUgans as naval officers. His mother also said that Jack bad got himself engaged this last leave, but I had nothing on which to write the girl's name on. Haybe he'll come through himself and tell us. 
Arriving back here, I found a letter from long lost BUir McGowan. It's dated Nov. 18. and Blair says, "I am in Germany as you gather from the top of the letter. My Maryland days were over last March and I returned to the infantry then, joining the . . . division in Texas. I've been with them ever since. . . . 
"As for se^ng Notre Dame fellows. I haven't done so well When I left California* Cahill, Keat­ini:, the Godfrey! et al., went out to the Fadfic Bin Carroll and I went to AST. John Solon was in the hospital and I never did hear what hap­pened to him. 
"About a month ago I ran into Frank Conforti in Cherbourg. I just happened to see him as I was going down a street. We shot the breeze for a few minutes but then I had to leave. Cherbourg is a madhouse with no li^ts. soldiers of all nations i-oanung the streets, people brandishing knives, grenades tucked under belts, and so forth. How­ever, as the front moves more westward toward Berlin I suppose it will Quiet down. I read in 'Stars and Stripes' that Bob Rensberger is some­where around Normandy, but Conforti was the only one I saw. I ran into Bill Stewart in Wash­ington last winter. He was physical director at Boiling Held. Also saw Loa Rymkns there when he was with the Redskins. But that's all months ago. 
"Winter is beginning to set in here where I am in Germany. We had our first snow yesterday and it's colder than the devil. I am living in an enlarged foxhole and very thankful for the sod over my head. The German artillery and 88's r^se hell with us all the time, and that's why it's a little safer underground. 
"Ed, I suppose you heard about poor Ed Mc­Kim's death on Guam last July. I felt and feel pretty bad about it. I heard from his father not so long ago. A very nice letter and he certainly could set a model for a manly way for a father to act upon loang his son." 
So that's what it's like on the German front. So far this column has heard from the Italian, German. Sooth Pacific, African, and Australian fronts. Who's in the Philippines? 
And as if to answer that question, comes a letter from old J. J. Becker on his ADP out in those waters, J- J. has this to say, "Since we are peacefully at anchor in a beautiful tropical la­goon with the Japs only four miles away, this is a golden opportunity that I cannot afford to miss for writing letters. 
"A present we are resting after a pleasant little jaunt up into the Philippines. Talk about some place that is really hot, that place certainly is. both in temx>erature and Japs. While we were up there I had my crat^ at them. We were at anchor in a bay. Usually at GQ I am stuck down below but this time I was on the bridge when the alert soanded. So taking advantage of the chance of a lifetime I manned one of the 50 cal. guns as you know how I like to shoot About three minutes later two 'Bettys* came diving out of the clouds at the ship behind us. We opened fire im­mediately and one plane came out of the dive while the other crashed off our STBD quarter about 500 yards. The Jap that pulled out flew by us at about 100 yards, so I shot everythins in the ready box at him as did every other gun around. The last we saw of him he was smoking badly and losing altitude rapidly. When he flew by he was so close I could see his face plainly. 
"Met Tom ConI«y on an tST the other day and we also received a new officer from N.D.» *45. 
Well, that's the way the Philippines are going-
Also at home I heard that Ed Fcrcvsm, ex. '43, was again out in the Pacific with the Navy Air Corps. His eyes have cleared up completely after his bad crash of almost a year ago. 
That's about all for this time But before clos­ing I'd like to thank Father O'Donnell on bdialf of the class for his wonderful Christmas letter. And a letter arrived from Bill Dooley of the Alumni Office in which he mentions the "phenom­enal record" of our class in the Second Annual Alumni Fiind. So all those, who contributed can now pat themselves on the hack for I wouldn't be surprised if we have set some sort of record for parUcipation of young classes. My personal thanks and congratulations go out to every one who "dog down." I^et's do a repeat this next year 
1st Lt. Midiael Fiscfa, Fairmont, Minn., has been awarded the third Oak Leaf Cluster to the Air Medal, equivalent to the fourth award of the medal, for "meritorious achievement" while on bombing atacks over Germany. 
1944 
Addresses en file for S 2/c Roger Faettcr is through the FPO, N.Y.C, and for Pf c Loais Sdunitz, through APO, San Francisca Louie landed at Leyte. 
Newly commissioned second lieutenants: Cail Forster, Selman Field, Monroe, La., navigator in the AAF; Fred Eicfaom. Signal Corps. Fort Mon­mouth, N. J. 
Ens. Ed Bnrke. South Bend, completed his train­ing at Annapolis and reported to Miami for re­assignment. Cpl. Bill Hooley, Portsmouth, O., is an aircraft mechanic in a fighter squadron at an Eighth Air Force fighter station which was com­mended by Brig. Gen. Jesse Auton, Wing Com­mander, for the part played in the destruction of 43 enemy aircraft and the damaging of 23 others on a German-held airdrome recently. 
Ens. Jim Cnnningliam writes from Orange. Tex. His letter was so neutral that we cannot decide whether or not he likes the place. A welcome Christmas card informed us that Lt. Kelly Coak was with the 15th Air Force in Italy. 
Teduiician 3rd Grade Dan Kennedy, Chicoj>ee Falls, Mass., is serving as a liaison supply ser­geant with Y-Force, southwestern China. His brother, Bob» '39, is a major in the Marines and stationed in North Carolina. 
Pf c Jack Woclfle, Lynbrook, N. Y„ was wound­ed on Oct 19, while serving in France. A member of the infantry, he participated in the fighting from Anzio to Rome in Italy, prior to going to southern France. Jack holds the Purple Heart and the Combat Infantryman Badge. 
And Johnny Lynch, of the Lsmch-Woelfle team, was also injured. Let him tell it in his own words from Italy: "You've heard of the thing called the Gothic Une? Well. I got out of the hospital in time to have my share in the big push. But in October some one got especially mnd at me and bounced an artillery shell right dose, with the result that I very near wasn't around. .. . I was hit above my left knee and the bone got basted up a little and some other things sHghly disar­ranged. So besides having a few holes in my leg and the bone broken I was just like new . . . now I'm cased in plaster from rib to toe . . . they put my right leg in plaster too but only to the knee." 
As you can see. Johnny, despite serious injuries, was, as ever, cheerful in the best Lynch manner, but he was looking forward to possible removal to the n.S.A. 
li t Lt. Joe PatniccOf Meriden. Conn., recently promoted, is a navigator at an Eighth Air Force Bomber Station in England. Joe is a member of a Fortress crew which has been bombing Nazi war plants and hitting military targets in sup­port of Allied ground forces. 

1945 and Later 
David R. Condon, The Chicago Tribune. Chicago, lU. 
A Sumner, la., boy, 1st Lt. Bob Winks* 8th Air Force fighter pilot, has been presented the third Oak Leaf Cluster to the Air Medal, previously awarded. Bob downed a Messerschmitt 109 on a recent mission to Leipzig. His outfit, the 357th Filte r Group, has knocked out 480 Luftwaffe planes in nine months, 438 of these in the air. 
A member of the Third Bombardment Divi­sion—the division that received a Presidential citation for its now historic England-Africa shuttle bombing of Messerschmitt aircraft plants at Regensburg, Germany — Lt. Frank Casick* Providence. R. I., is the owner of the Air Medal with one Oak Leaf Cluster. A communique from an F^ghth Air Force Bomber Station .in England stated that Frank aided in taking charg^ of a formation of Eighth Air Force B-17 Flying For­tresses, leading them to their target and back, after the lead plane had been disabled. Waist gunner on a B-17 Flying Fortress in the same di­vision is Sgt. Ed Chute. Greenwich, Conn. 
Marine Pfc. John Leahy is stationed at Camp Lejeime. N. C. Pvt. Jimmy Qoinn^ Springfield, Mass., is with the 15th Air Force in Italy, His duties are that of an aircraft armorer with a top scoring P-51 Mustang fighter group of the Medi­terranean theater. 
The deadly combination of rockets and machine guns is proving its worth in the gradual disinte­gration of German communications in Northern Italy. 1st Lt. John Leibin, Cleveland, has taken part in several missions embodying this latest type of lethal destruction. John is the holder of the Air Medal and had, at the latest report, flown 24 combat missions. 
A graduate of the Naval Air Transport Bases, Corpus Christi, John McCoy, Phoenix, Ariz., was commissioned an ensign in the U. S. Naval Re­serve. Atfaktic Specialiat Ziggy Czarobski is sta­tioned at the Bainbridge, Md., Naval Air Station and played regular tackle on that station's foot­ball team, with former Notre Dame teammate, Lou Ryakos, at the other tackle. 
V-mail from Sgt. John Dennlston, "somewhere in rVance": "Hear from the old gang quite regu­larly. Boh Kopf still in Italy, J. H. Johnston in France. Ditto Kevin Rohan. Al Sommer etill tardy in letter writing." John and Ted Weber had a practically miraculous meeting on a train bound for Chicago soon after Ted returned from the Pacific. 
Good news was received by Lt. Ora Spaid's wife. South Bend, when a telegram from the War D^artment announced that Ora, previously re­ported missing in action over Germany since Sept 12, vras actually a prisoner of war. 2nd Lt. Jahn Worden, Air Corps, reported in November for duty at Selfridge Reld. Mich. John, of Au­burn, N. Y., entered the Army in November. 1942, as an aviation cadet, and was commissioned 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
January, 1944. 'Wings and a commission -were awarded to 2nd Lt. John Sommcrs, Greenfield, Mass., at Foster Field, Texas. 
Four N.D. *46 men were commissioned ensigns at the U.S. Naval Reserve Midshipmen's school. New York, in ceremonies held in the Cathedral of St. John the Divine. There were Jim Bescn­felder. Spring Valley, III., Tom Carlin^ Trenton, 
N. J.. John Wclcht Davenport. 1=.. end Roy Lans. Chicago. 
Recently graduated as a second lieutenant in the Air Corps, Jim Yockcy, Alpena, Mich., is stationed at Dcdt;e City, Kans. Pat Trixl.r's ad­dress is APO. N;Y;G.' Serving aboard an aircraft carrier in the Pacific area, Tom Steigmcycr, South Bend, took part inithe battle of Leyte. 
CpL Ted Schactzle, Akron, O., B-24 Liberator tail-gunner, has arrived overseas, and is now assigned to a veteran liberator group bzscd in the Mediterranean theater; the group has twice been cited by the President "for outstanding psrform­ance of duty in armed conflict with the enemy." 
According to a report received from the War ncpartmcnt by his mother, Jim CoKins, New Brighton. Staten Island, N. Y-, has been serious­ly wounded. Jim left N.D. to enter the Army in February, 1943. Bill Rocmer, South Bend, a Ben­gal Bouts champion last spring, has started his c::det tr.:ininK in the Merchant Marine officer school on X<ong Island. 
From Dave Condon: 
Since the last request for help, the response has been terrific and Messrs. Armstrong and Dooley even have promised to -syndicate the column if we get enough letters and coupons to compare favor­ably with our co-worker. Red (Laughing Boy) Lonerffan. 
First the neivs about Red himself, since he mod­estly refrains from mentioning his name in the column he gathers. I spent New Year's Eve out in Wilmette at his place, and we welcomed 1945 in favorable fashion. 
Now, the mail, and a lot of it is forwarded from the Alumni Office, which was listed as my address up .to six months ago. The boys are still sending mail, there, since many of them do not receive the "Alumnus" for several months. The tenor of most of the letters I receive indicates the boys spend their spare time on the battle­fronts passing the "Scholastic" and "Alumnus" around, and a magazine is passed on to new readers until it is worn cut. 
A short note from a San Francisco APO is from Francis C. Anderson, ex. '46, who remi­nisces and wants to contact lots of his Brown­sonite roomies. I have the address when anyone wants it. Francis says that Ed Hogan. also an ex. '46, is in Europe, and lists a New York APO for him. 
J. L. 0*Dea. a corporal in the Marines, writes from the Central Pacific, and the first news is that he was married to Carol Gibbons of Wil­mington. Mass.. last April. She was queen of the Cotillion back in 1941. Jim says that when he was in California he saw Tom Cody, '44, and Dun O'Neill, ex .'45. He also saw,Bob Sullivan, '45, and the inimitable,Harry Wright. Jim is looking for the addre^' of Bemie O'Hora, ex. '44, and wants someone Fo forward it to this department. 
Joe Gall, writing a V-Mail letter that can bare­ly be discerned with my 1-C eyes, is full of news. Among those he says he has met "out here" (he has an FPO from San Francisco) are John Boyle, Miles Kelly, Bob KcUy. John Hickey, Ed Hnrray, Barney Tnmock and Jack Whitely. He met Jack Whitely when their ships passed, and was .able^tObTthri)g^T-ov€r-a.rJHmdlc of old "Scholas­tics", and the October "Alumnus." 
Pvt Alvin "Tyke" Hartman, ex. '45, lower left, Pvt. John O'Brien, ex. '45, upper right, and two unidentified sol­diers, in front of the Red Cross Canteen in Florence, Italy. The two classmates met quite by chance in November, 1944, at the canteen. Each was the first Notre Dame man the other had seen since they left the United States. 
Joe says his skipper is Lt, (jg) F. S. Stslcy of Cincinnati. He also mentions getting ashore at a naval air station and meeting Marty Peteri, a lieutenant. Joe says that he gathers John Prince is still stationed in San Diego, and that Frank Keenan and he (Joe) are in the same flotilla and able to exchange all the scuttlebutt. Joe wants notes from Gene Slevin, Paul Dohr. Jim Kicfcr, and Tom O'Reilly. 
• Heard from Everfiart Schleck'» father, who lives in Milwaukee, and at that time Everhart was in Columbus. O., in a parts supply platoon, but ex­pecting to go out. Everhart was the medalist of the University golf tournament in the spring of 1942. 
Jim Crowley (James A-) finally came throurfi with a note. He. too, lists San Francisco as the place where his home town paper is sent. He had just received the "Alumnus" and was overjoyed. On the gossip side, he said he heard from Jerry Brown, who was in France with the Finance de­partment. He said he had heard that Frank Gior­dano had been captured by the Germans (this letter was..of Dec. 27) and that Jack Woelfle had been wounded. He has Giordano's address, as a P.W., so it "must be authentic Says he heard from Father Edmund Alarray, and he was in France with Jack Wiggins, Reggie Flynn, Joe Nafelt and Charlie Golden. 
Jim says that Ted (The Bull) Budynkiewicz, who won the Bengal Bouts heavyweight cham­pionship in 1943, had continued his bo:dng career and was in the finals of "this island" boxing tournament when he was transferred. 
I see by the "Scholastic" where P«al (Bud^) LisMbt was sUi^tlT wounded oS the Philippuws, but had recovered, while Koy Grambiiie was miss* ing in action. 
Bill Brawn has gone out to sea, after leaviiig Little Creek, Va., where be did his advanced training. He was in Houston. Texas, for awlule, and seons to be progressing smoothly. He said that if he got to Galveston, he planned to look up Tex Pc«Ut«e7, but he never mentioned wheth­er he arrived there. I checked with his brother, and his brother said he believed he had arrived down in Galveston. *Bxa.t leaves it up to Pequigney, who is growing lax. with his correspondence. 
Dick Marpky* the Chicago businessman, called 
up one nis^t, but at that time hadn't decided . what career he would follow. A friend in New Mexij») wrote that JoseiA Oiandler Kyaa had been discharged from the Army, but subseouent efforts to locate his whereabouts are unavsdUng. His mother bad gone froni Albuquerque to Wash* 
ington the last I heard. 
Had dinner with Scrap Teang the other day. He had lots of news from the boys. Had just heard from JI H White, who was dickering with a professional football offer. Frank Kent» at last reports, was going to make the gradoaUon class this time, while BUI "Red" Carey, after some soldiering, dropped in at the office of the World's Greatest, while preparing to re-enter N.D. He is there now. I see references in the "Scholastic" to T^mmy Bams, from New Mexico, -who is back in school. He was in the ERC, but must have been discharged. 
A newspaper dispatch credits Don Heltzel with a considerable part in the invasion of Leyte. while Bin DMi^erty, the KOTO man, still writes that South Bend colleen who followed him to the Navy, 
As if times would change, the "Scholastic" is still writing gags about the St. Bbry's punch. 
I had Christmas cards from Bhx Banwll and Dit^HcHagh. 
1st Lt. Bob Grady, Coming, N. 7., assistant chemical oflScer in the 101st Airborne Division, recently came out of the besieged city of Bas­togne with a story of an enemy shell which nu­raculously proved a dud. 
"A group cf officers and enlisted'men," be says, "were milling around some quartermaster trucks parked in a field near the edge'^of Bastogne. un­loading rations for the men who were holding: oat within the city, when I heard an eerie 'wobbly* noise. All of us instinctively' :.ducked. realiring immediately that it was a sbfiU, One of the en­listed men droped a case of K-ration, and I shouted 'what's wrong* to him.' He couIdn*t sx>eak. but listlessly pointed to the ground! Buried in the soil before hiin was the German shell, and it was several seconds before we realized that it was a dud." 
Charlcfl KasB, Lakewood, O., inducted into the Army in September 1944 has finished his bade training at Camp Wolters, Tex., and has been accepted for OCa 
"Pfe. Shaan BlacDemett, ex. *46, has seen a lot of the world,** says the "Gaelic American.'* "since Uncle Sam 'put the finger on him' two years aga when a sophomore. He is now somewhere in Eng­land and has achieved the distinction, unique even in the annals of the MacDermott clan, of being godfather to a Chinaman. Here is what Shann has to say about this new responsibility: 'Satur­day ni^ t I had the experience of being godfather for a Chinese fellow in the company who beaune a Roman Catholic He told me a few days ago about it and also that he Intended to go to Notre Dame after the war.'" 





1945 — yea/i> 0^ %eciiio*i 
W^ have begun a new year under a new plan. It can be, for the Alumni of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame through your Association, the greatest in our 77 years of existence. There are things in the way, but you have shown in 1942, 1943 and 1944 that you can decide our future favorably, if you will. 
Here are a few of the things that the New Year brings for your action. 
The Third Annual Fund,—^the continuing, annucd pro­grcan of giving to Notre Dame through the Associa­tion, began on January 1, and will end on December 31, setting up the Association on a calendar fiscal year. Within these 11 months remaining, we want to raise the amount of money raised in the 24 months of the Centenary Fund or the 17 months of the Sec­ond Annual Alumni Fund. The ALUMNUS is sent this issue to all contributors to the Second Annual Fund. Its receipt after that is contingent upon con­tribution to the Third Armual Fund (unless in ser­vice), but more detailed notice will be given in the meantime. 
2 New officers will be elected, to serve in 1946, to establish the national offices of the Association on a calendar year. 
2 New Constitutions, By-Laws and Club Suggestions will be issued to effect a calendar and coordinated year for the entire alumni program, and to bring the machinery of the Association up to its present de­mands. 
Club Renaissance! Most of the Local Clubs have allowed the war to affect them seriously. It is vital to our postwar program that all Clubs revive their program on the new scale of participation prior to the return of the members away in the anned iorces. They will expect a functioning organization to be waiting for them. 
War or peace, rigid selective service, or not, the Uni­versity is faced with a serious problem in civilian enrolment during this critical year of 1945. Alumni proved, in 1934-35, that they are the most effective charmels for restoring a normal capacity enrolment. Clubs and individuals can again meet this emergency. 
Placement of returning veterans and the groundwork for a more effective placing of undergraduates, through academic and vocational guidance on the campus, will require comprehensive understanding of all alumni, and the Local Alumni Clubs partic­ularly. 
AAOiether or not peace comes, the compiling of accu­rate war records of Notre Dome men in service to date is a challenging process for the Alumni Asso­ciation through all its members, the Clubs, the Classes, and the families. We would like to catch up during this year. 
O The intellectual leadership expected of us has not crystallized. Now, with issues beclouded and peace depending upon clear-cut application of fundamental principles, 1945 must see a general organization of alumni, through every possible channel, especially through the Local Club committees on Religion and Citizenship, for the stimulation of this leadership. 
If peace comes, as we hope and pray, during this year of 1945, or if the war continues with its more acute problems and adversities, the already strained position of Notre Dame men will demand more and more a readiness on the part of the Alumni Associa­tion to meet these war and postwar exigencies. The more we attend to our preparation now, the better will we serve whatever purposes may be our priv­ilege. In the rehabilitation of the Notre Dame men who have served; in the immortalizing of. those who will not return, and in the preparation of a new generation of leadership to prevent a recurrence of this disintegration of society, we have opportunities offered few groups. Guided by the principles of Notre Dame, there can be neither error nor waste in our efforts. There should be no delay. 





