The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTPC DAME ALUMNUS 
VOL. VI. CONTENTS FOE MAY, 1928 NO. 9 
Commencement Program 324 The N. D. Club of the City of New York 325 Fare-and-a-Half to Happiness 328 Old College Group 331 Ballots 332 Hon. N. J. Sinnott on Federal Bench 333 A-thletics : 334 
U. N. D. Night Big Success 335 Ths Alumni 342 
The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association 
of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 
a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 incind* 
a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923. 
at the post office at Notre Dame, Indlara, under the Act of March 3, 1897. All corres­
pondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81. Notre Dame, Indiana. MEJIBER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
The Alumni Association 
of the 

University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Headquarters: 329 Administration Building, Notre Dame James E. Armstrong, '25, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
EDWARD L. MAURUS, '93 ---- Honorary President JOHN P. MUKPHY, '12 -------- President JAMES F . O'BRIEN, '13 ------ Vice-President JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 ------- Secretary WALTER DUNCAN, '12 -------- Treasurer EDWIN C. MCHUGH, 'is -------- Director JOSEPH M. HAUTST, '99--------- Director ALFRED C. RYAN, '20--------- Director GEORGE M. MAYPOLE, '03 -------- Director DANIEL J. O'CONNOR, '05 -- - Director (ex offieio) 

Eighty-fourth Annual Commencement 
All Day 
6:30 P. M. 
7:00
 P.M. 

7:00
 P.M. 


8:00 P.M. 
10:00 P.M. 
8:00 A. M. 
9:30 A.M. 
10:00 A.M. 
12:00 M. 
3:00 P.M. 
6:00 P.M. 
7:00 P.M. 
8:00 P.M. 
8:30
 P.M. 

8:30
 A. M. 


9:00 A.M. 
11:00 A.M. 
12:00 M. 
2:00 P.M. 
5:00 P.M. 

University of Notre Dame, 1928 
FRIDAY, JUNE 1 
Eegistration of Alumni, Alumni Office, Main Floor, Main Building. Concert, University Band. Dinner, Class of '23, Fifth Year Eeunion. Dinner, Classes of ••05-'06-'07-'08, Di.x Group Eeunion. One-act Plays, University Theatre, Washington Hall. Commencement Dance, St. Joe Valley Club, Univer'sity Dining Hall. 
SATURDAY, JUNE 2 
Solemn Eequiem Mass for Deceased Alumni, Sacred Heart Church. Senior Last Visit, Sacred Heart Church (Class Only). Class Day Exercises, Washington Hall. Luncheon for Alumni and Guests, Cafeteria New Dining Hall. 
Baseball Game, N. D. vs. Michigan State. Annual Alumni Banquet, University Dining Hall. Concert. Studehaker Band, Main Quadrangle. Alumni Carnival and Eeception to Graduating Class. New Dining 
Hall. Concert, University Musical Organizations, Washington. Hall, (for other guests). 
SUNDAY, JUNE 3 
Academic Procession, Main Building to Sacred Heart Church. Solemn Pontifical Mass, Sacred Heart Church. Celebrant—Et. Eev. George J. Finnigan, C.S.C, D.D., Bishop of Helena, Mont. Baccalaureate Sermon—Eev. Wm. B. Martin, D.D., Eector Church of the Holy Family, New Eochelle, N. Y. Music—Moreau Seminary Choir and University Glee Club. Blessing of Senior Flag. Senior Flag Eaising Exercises, Main Quadrangle. Eeunion or Group Luncheons, University Dining Hall. (Write Editor for Arrangements.) Annual Meeting of the Alumni Association, Washington Hall. Awarding of Degrees to Graduates, University Gymnasium. Commencement Address—Col. William Donovan, 165th Inf., (old 69th, N. Y.) 
A magazine which seeks to unify Notre Dame spirit among Notre Dame alumni; to 
Iteep alive the friendliness and democracy of the campus when campus days are gone; to 
acquaint Notre Dame alumni with the development of the University, and the broader devel­
opment of the principles of Catholic education: to organize alumni activity so that it may 
better and in a greater measure attain its ends; to live in print as Notre Dame men live 
always, "For God, for Country, and for Notre Dame." 


The Notre Dame Club of the City of New York 
T
HE Notre Dame Club of New York central headquarters to handle adequately has its headquarters at the Fraternity the volume of detail which developed. Club, 22 East 38th Street, a quarter of The affairs of the Notre Dame Club of a million dollar club hotel operated by the New York are in the hands of an able Allerton interests. Hundreds of college men group of executive and administrative offi­from all parts of the country make their cials. William E. Cotter is president, An­home at this address, and Notre Dame's col­gus D. McDonald, Hugh O'Donnell, William ors hang from the walls together with those A. Daunt, Dr. Maurice B. Keady and Allan of Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Chicago, Min­Dwan are vice-presidents; Louis E. Wagner nesota and other leading universities. is treasurer and Joseph P. Burke, secretary. The board of governors consisting of six 
The Fraternity Club in fact is beginning members, with the president of the club as 
to be woven into the fabric of the history chainnan ex officio, is made up of Peter P. 
of the Notre Dame Club of New York. The McEUigott, Louis P. Doyle, Walter Doug­
weekly luncheons are held there, as well as las, John T. Balfe, Prank Wallace and Am­
the meetings and informal social events. brose O'Connell. The Rev. John C. Mc-
The annual celebrations of Universal Notre Namara is chaplain. 
Dame night have all taken place at the Fra­ternity Club, as well as the election of offi­Nearly every member of the organization 
cers. Here it is that with special wires is active on one committee or another, and from the field of battle, we have been ele­is expected to render definite service vated to the skies with the news of famous throughout the year both for the welfare football victories, or sent home in a state of of the club and the University. Among the 
dejection when the team went down in de­committees established by the new adminis­feat. tration for the ensuing year are the Foot­ball Reception Committee, the Universal 
The practical and economical arrange­Notre Dame Night Committee, the Football ments extended by the management of the Ticket Committee and committees for mem­Fraternity Club enable the organization to bership, press, house, music, printing, develop under the most favorable condi­dance, luncheons, finance, emplojnnent, 

tions, and the new administrative officers of  en­
tertainment, alumni news, visiting the sick, the Notre Dame Club of New York are and for the entertainment of visiting Notre planning to hold forth at the old address Dame guests. 

during the ensuing year. The history of the Notre Dame Club of 
Prior to the establishment of permanent New York is one of special interest. In the 
headquarters, the Notre Dame club carried early days the city could boast of but a
its offices in its hat. The president of the handful of Notre Dame graduates. In those 
organization, or its secretary, received the times the gatherings were few and far be­
mail at his office, and transacted all its tween. Some distinguished alumnus was 
business there. With the advent of the 
looked to for leadership, and the meetings 
Army game, however, and the demand for 
consisted of an informal luncheon or din-
tickets, it was found necessary to have a 

THE NOTRE DAJIE ALUMNUS 
her, usually held when some officer of the 
University Adsited the city. 
About t\venty years ago, a number of 

graduates made a definite effort to estab­
lish the club as a permanent organization. 
The late Monsignor Luke J. Evers was 
acting president, and with the assistance 
of a number of younger men a drive was 
made to enroll every Notre Dame man in 
the Metropolitan district. An infoi*mal 
dinner was held at a little hotel in the 
Times Square section, and about forty men 
attended. 
Among them were Monsignor Evers, 

Joseph M. Bsrme, Sr., Angus McDonald, 
Frank Ward O'Malley, Peter McEUigott, 
Frank Schwab, Pat McDonough, Frank 
Eyanson, "Eunt" Cornell, Anthony Brogan, 
Jack Scales, Jimmie Cook, Ferdinand G. 
Long, Louis Eeed, Dr. Wrenn, Ambrose 
O'Connell, Charlie Goi-man, Tom O'Eeilly, 
Simon O'Brien, Tom Murphy, Ernest, Eddie 
and Tom Hammer, Dan Murphy and Bill 
Cotter. 
From this gathering emerged a plan to hold an affair that would "crack the town wide open." A committee of arrangements was appointed, and a great banquet was held at the Waldorf-Astoria. The Very Eev. John Cavanaugh, president of the Uni­versity, was the guest of honor and speaker of the evening. The event far surpassed in attendance and importance the fondest hopes of the Notre Dame men of New York. 
More than 500 were seated at the tables, and among those present were church dig­nitaries, city and state officials, distinguish­ed educators, prominent citizens and alumni. The next morning, Notre Dame was on the front page of every New York newspaper. 
Notre Dame men in New York now felt they had a place in the sun. Later on, the club established permanent headquarters; rooms were engaged at Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street and fitted up in exquisite taste. It was not long however, before it was dis­covered that the organization's members were not able to maintain the pace that they had cut out for themselves, and after a thorough trial the enterprise was aband­oned. ; 
Notre Dame affairs were inactive for a time thereafter. The advent of Notre Dame in J3astern football, however', caused the men to gather for the annual contest 
at West Point. A special train to take the 
crowd to the "plains" was arranged for by 
Joe Byrne, who was then associated with 
his father at 32 Broadway. Joe's office be^ 
came the headquarters of the Notre Dame 
contingent in New York. The Army game 
was transferred to Brooklyn, and Joe and 
the staft" of his father's office worked day 
and night to dispose of the tickets. The 
following year, Notre Dame played the 
Army at the Polo Grounds, and the re­
sponsibility of selling 65,000 tickets to a 
skeptical public was placed upon Joe's 
shoulders once more. 
In the meantime, the Notre Dame Club 

of New York was reorganized. The older 
men felt the wise thing to do would be to 
place the organization in the hands of the. 
younger men who would have more time to 
devote to its affairs. A preliminary meet­
ing was held in the office of Al Ficks, an­
other in the office of Bill Cotter, and the 
third was held at the Fraternity Club, 
when John T. Balfe was chosen ijresident. 
The new organization immediately did all in its power to assist in disposing of tick­ets and entertaining "Eock" and the team. Its interest in Notre Dame and Notre Dame men has never wavered from its inception. The prestige that came to every Notre Dame man with the remarkable success of the football team aided the organization in getting under way and attaining a high place among the alumni associations in the East. But the untiring efforts of President Balfe and those associated with him for five years in the management of the club have had a tremendous effect in the estab­lishment of the fine, sound Notre Dame club.that exists today in New York. 
John T. Balfe has been president of the Notre Dame Club of New York for five years and relinquishes that im^jortant post on account of the growing demands of his business. Under his administration the No­tre Dame Club of New York has become one of the foremost alumni organizations of the East, and one of the largest and most successful among the associations of the University. By his sound theories and careful management, the local New York organization has enlisted the co-operation of Notre Dame men throughout the Metro­politan district, and as a result the activ­ities of the club have been a social and financial success. 
Mr. Balfe has just been placed in charge of the Uptown office of the John C. Mc­Namara organization, representatives of the Guardian Life Insurance Company of America. His new address is the Graybar building, 420 Lexington Avenue. Mr. Balfe is but 29 years of age, yet has attained a high'record in the life insurance field. He is married, and has one daughter. 

TWO CONVENTIONS 
The National Catholic Alumni Federation met at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York City on April 20, 21 and 22. The American Alumni Council held its annual meeting at the University of Minnesota May 3, 4 and 5. The proximity of these dates, coupled with early Commencement, kept the Alumni Office in a furore, but rep­resentation was maintained with very good results. 
Numerous details common to all conven­tions, pleasant and impoi-tant, marked both meetings. The outstanding features were decidedly promising. The Catholic Federa­tion showed a marked improvement in in­ternal organization and a rapidly crystalliz­ing comprehension of the peculiar field of alumni acti-vaty in the Catholic schools which prompted its organization. Mr. Ed­ward S. Dore of New York City was re­elected president of the Federation. Sev­eral members of the Notre Dame Club of New York were placed in official capacities for the coming year. A significant step was the vote to secure a permanent Secretary for the Federation, to promote organiza­tion among the unit schools of the Federa­tion. Forty-six schools were represented. The speakers were able. The papers, in­cluding one on Alumni Secretaries by the Notre Dame Secretai-y, touched the Catho­lic field. It is hoped that the Convention can be brought to the Middle West next year-, but no action was taken. 
The Minneapolis meeting of the American Alumni Council was also very successful. More than one hundred schools from the four corners of the United States and Can­ada were represented. The Council has done much to perfect wherever possible effi­cient methods of materializing the recog­nized potentialities of college alumni. The convention also went on record as favoring efforts to promote intellectual relations be­tween the colleges and universities and their alumni. This movement is comparatively new but is gaining ground rapidly. Miss Florence Snow of Smith College succeeded Wilfred N. Shaw of the University of Mich, igan as president of the Council. The No­tre Dame Secretary was elected third vice-president of the Council and will also con­tinue as director of District Five, including the seven states of Illinois, Indiana, Mich­igan, Kentucky, Ohio, West Virginia, and Wisconsin. 
On the New York Trip the Secretary stopped at Toledo, Cleveland, Washington,. Philadelphia and New Jersey in addition to meeting many of the New York Alumni at the sessions of the convention. The trip to Minneapolis was made so hurriedly and the convention there so detailed that it was impossible to pursue the same plan. The trips were made possible through the co­operation of the University, and the Clubs of Toledo, Washington and New Jersey. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Fare-and-a-half To Happiness 
C
OMMERCIALISM seems a harsh note to strike at the opening of the Com­mencement announcements. But we as­sume that you are all completely sold on the idea of Reunions and the Annual Meeting this year and we wish to get this very im­portant consideration before you. Read it carefully and observe its rules. If you are so that it means only a few cents remem­ber the men from New York and Califor­nia, and get your certificate ivheii you leave. 
Eiforts on the part of President John P. Murphy and Director Daniel J. O'Connor have secured the fare-and-a-half concession for members of the Association attending the Annual Meeting at Notre Dame, June 1, 2 and 3. The concession is contingent upon the presentation of 250 or more certi­ficates, which means that every returning alumnus must co-operate to make the plan successful. The following is an outline of the plan: 
A reduction of one and one-half fare on the "Certificate Plan" will apply for mem­bers attending the meeting of THE ALUM­NI ASSOCIATION OF THE UNIVER­

SITY OF NOTRE DAME to be held at Notre Dame, Ind., June 1-3,1928. The following directions are submitted for your guidance: 
1. Tickets at the regular one-way tariff fare for the going journey may be obtained on any of the following dates (but not on any other date) May 29 to June 2, 1928. 
Be sure that, when purchasing your go­ing ticket, you request a CERTIFICATE. 
Do not make the mistake of asking for a "receipt." 
2.
 Present yourself at the railroad sta­tion for ticket and certificate at least thirty minutes before departure of train on which you will begin your journey. 

3.
 Certificates are not kept at all sta­tions. If you inquire at your home station you can ascertain whether certificates and through tickets can be obtained to place of meeting. If not obtainable at your home station, the agent mil inform you at what station they can be obtained. You can in such case purchase a local ticket to the sta­tion which has certificates in stock, where you can purchase a through ticket and at 





[Sf'^^¥-i. >^ 
1 ^<' 
r D > 1 




IH If 
i I 

UNIVERSITY ORCHESTRA WILL PLAY AT COMMENCEMENT 
the same time ask for and obtain a certifi­cate to the place of meeting. 
4.
 Immediately on your arrival at the meeting present your certificate to the en­dorsing officer, Mr. James E. Armsti'ong, Secretary, as the reduced fare for the re­turn journey will not apply unless you are properly identified as provided for by the certificate. 

5.
 Arrangements have been made for validation of cei-tificates by a Special Agent of the carriers on June 1 and 2 at Notre Dame if the required minimum of 250 cer­tificates is presented. 


6. No refund of fare will be made he-cause of faihire to obtain a proper certifi­cate when purchasing going ticket. 
7.
 So as to prevent disappointment, it must be understood that the reduction on the return journey is not guaranteed, but is contingent on an attendance at the meet­ing, of not less than 250 members of the organization and dependent members of their families, holding regularly issued cer­tificates obtained from ticket agents at starting points, showing payment of regu­lar one-way adult tariff fare of not less than 67 cents on going journey. 

8.
 If the necessary minimum of 250 cer­tificates is presented to the Special Agent as above explained, and your certificate is duly validated, you will be entitled up to and including June 6, 1928, to a return ticket via the same route over which you made the going journey, at one-half of the regular one-way tariff fare from the place of meeting to the point at which your cer­tificate was issued. 


9. Eeturn ticket issued at the reduced fare will not be good on any limited train on which such reduced fare transportation is not honored. 
P. S.—Summer tourist fares on a lower basis than certificate plan fares will also be in effect from Arizona, British Colum­bia, California, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, and Washington. Tickets on sale daily from May 22—September 30, incl. with return limit of October 31, 1928. 
COMMENCEMENT Now that we are all set on coming back, and HOW, listen to what awaits you! 
Friday is the day to get here. The old campus looks marvelous this year. With the new buildings you'll want to do a lot of looking. The Class of '23 .is throwing its big dinner Friday night in the Dining Hall with that "Hundred Back" and the Dix group of '05, '06, '07 and '08 is also plan­ning to bang 'em up early on the same night and late. So plan to light in North­ern Indiana Friday. We'll register you and give you a nice clean room in Morrissey, Lyons or Walsh HaUs. Then you can listen to Joe Casasanta's University^ Band turn out the latest and best in band music on the old Quadrangle. If you don't belong at the dinners you can make those boys jealous by seeing the University Theatre put on some real drama in Washington ^ Hall. And bring a little oil for the joints, so that when the shows are over you can join the St. Joseph Valley Alumni in the Commencement Dance in the Dining Hall. After that you want to start sleeping, be-' cause Saturday comes the dawn! 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
A i-easonable length of time after the dawn on Saturday comes the Eequiem Mass for deceased Alumni. You owe it to your dead classmates and all the dead of Notre Dame to attend this beautiful cere­mony of these days. The attendance in the past has been poor tribute to their memoiy. Include an alami clock in your baggage. At ten o'clock the old figures of Cicero and Demosthenes will beam down and listen to the Class poem, valedictory, etc. At noon you'll have a chance to test out the lovely cafeteria in the new Dining Hall and toss the reminiscences about its spacious quarters until the Varsity Ball game with Michigan State (probably the Michigan Aggies in your day). We ad\'ise you to go over to Warren Cai-tier's Field and inhale lots of fresh air and see Tommy Mills real ball club in action. The result will be an appetite to do justice to the An­nual Banquet. 
No more need to speak of the food at this affair. Suffice it to say that history is going to repeat itself. For the speeches, John Murphy has swore him a great swear that they're going to be the snappiest on the books. And when you read the next paragraph you'll see why. 
After the banquet, which \vill be held in one giant wing of the Dining Hall, a good old circus barker will ballyhoo the gang into the other wing where a i-eception to the Class of 1928, who will be guests of honor at the banquet, will be followed by a regu­lar Alumni Carnival. 
Plans at present writing are that the principal Clubs, Alumni and student, will cooperate to conduct booths where the stu­dents and the old guard can shake a friend­ly hand or two. There will be lots of side attractions and a steady program of mu­sical and entertaining features will furnish a theme for the whole works. Just a gen­uine jamboree. The success of it dei^ends, of coui'se, upon cooperation, but it seems so attractive to everyone connected with its planning that we're already calling it a big success. If you fail to come do\vn and jump in with both feet, its blood be upon you. 
When the stretcher-bearers have carried you to whatever room we've assigned you, we aren't worrying about you till Sunday moi-ning. The academic procession is sched­uled for 8:30. Try to get ..up for it. At 
9:00 comes the Solemn Pontifical Mass with Et. Kev. George J. Finnigan, C.S.C, D.D., Bishop of Helena, Notre Dame's own beloved alumnus, celebrating. Rev. Wil­liam B.- Martin, D.D., New Rochelle, N. Y. Bill Cotter's pastor, by the way, will give the Baccalaureate. They say down En.st that Father Martin is the finest spaaker in a diocese noted for its speakers. Father James Connerton's Moreau Seminaiy Choir and the University's famous Glee Club will sing the music of the Mass. The Senior Flag will be blessed and carried to the pole on the Quadrangle where it will be raised with the usual impressive ceremonies. 
After this you can do as you like. The Reunion groups and the Big Shots will be hailed within the wavering i-ange of the Association moving picture camera and the other battery of cameras. So you'd better stick around, at that. But if the gastric urge gets you, the new caf will be waiting. 
However, watch your lunch. We want 
GLEE CLXJB TO SING AT CoaiMENCEMENT 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
you to come to the Annual Meeting all set to do a Patrick Henry or two. This Asso­ciation is going to go places and do things. It has taken some long strides this year. The new officers will be announced then and we expect them to step on the gas-then and there. Don't be jay-walking on the campus when the band-wagon starts. 
The meeting will give you lots to think about, and to quiet you down to a tempera­ture that will allay your wife's suspicions we urge you to attend the beautiful and im­pressive awarding of degrees in the Uni­vex-sity Gjmmasium. Four hundred is the approximate number in this year's Class. Come and see them, you who were eight or ten per cent of your Class, and get a thrill. And if just that doesn't knock you off on the right side of the fence, listen to this. 
The Commencement address will be given by Col. William "Wild Bill" Donovan of Buffalo, of the old New York 69th, wounded three times during the great war and deco­rated by this and the Allied governments with their highest honors. Col. Donovan is recognized widely as an orator as well as one of the country's greatest soldiers, and will by himself make your trip worth while, whether from Seattle, Boston, or Goshen, Mr. Schnur. 
Sunday evening you can meet everybody you intended to meet sooner. The Dining Hall will be a sort of social center for the entire week-end. Look up the boys from your community who get their sheep-sldns and give them the grip. Meet their families if you don't know them already. Notre Dame is already on the boy's map but put a circle around the dot. Make it the capital of his world. 
For further disposition of spare time, write the secretary. 
N. D. MEN IN POLITICS 

The St. Joseph Valley primary election tickets May 8 looked like the Notre Dame class election slates—almist. Four of seven candidates for prosecutor were Alumni— Sam Schwartz and Jim Dooley, Democratic, and Edwin Hunter and Frank Coughlin, Republican. Raymond J. Lang was candi­date on the Democratic ticket for Surveyor. Steve Nyikos and Charley Glueckert were out for state representatives on the Demo­cratic ticket and Irving Hurwich on the Republican. George Sands was a candidate for state senator on the Democratic side. 

TO REUNE IN JUNE 
FOREST FLETCHER, "REV. M. L. MOKIARTr. ARTHUR J. HUGHES, JAMES COOK, NICHOLAS 
A. GAJIBOA, JAMES WASSON, JOS. B. SIURPHY, GEO. EMMET ATLEY, MYLES SIN­
NOTT, CHESTER D. FREEZE, "WILLLVM R. RYAN, JAMES E. DEERY, GEO. P. "WALSH, SNYDER (MASCOT), JOSE M. GUTIERREZ. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
FOE PRESIDENT 
[ ]  Donald H. Hamilton, '12  Columbus, Ohio  
[ ]  Ambrose A. O'Connell, '07  —New York City  
FOR VICE-PRESIDENT  
[ ]  William A. Draper, '07  Chicago, Illinois  
[ ]  Arthur J. Hughes, '11, '17  Chicago, Illinois  
FOR  TREASURER  
Walter Duncan, '12, La Salle, 111., Re-Nominated Unanimously.  

FOR DIRECTOR [ ] M. Harry Miller, '10 [ ] John F. O'Connell, '13 

The above ballot has been sent to every­one-on the mailing list. See that you re­turn it, so that the vote will be really repre­sentative and encouraging to the successful candidates in their work during the com­ing year. The following are brief biograph­ical sketches of the two presidential candi­dates that will be of interest. They were written by friends of the candidates. 
DON M. HAMILTON 

"Donald M. Hamilton entered Notre Notre Dame in 1908 and was graduated in 1912 with a degi-ee of Bachelor of Laws. During the years 1908, 1909 and 1910 Don played on the varsity football and baseball teams and as I recall was selected by many critics in 1909 as all-Western quarterback. It was during the year of 1909 when Notre Dame played Wabash that Don kicked a place-kick forty-six yards scoring a goal which was one of the long kicks up to that time. Don also had a very good x-eputation as baseball playei-. After leaving Notre Dame he made a very good reputation for himself in professional baseball, playing with the Louisville club of the American Association, before settling do%vn to the practice of law in Columbus. Don played on the famous N. D. team that relieved Michigan as champions of the West. 
"Don has been very successful, specializ­ing in corporation and insurance law, now representing many insurance companies and corporations in Columbus and through­out the state. He is an ex-president of the Columbus Bar Association, holding that of­fice in 1926. He is a member of the Athletic Club of Columbus, Columbus Country Club, and the N. D. Club of Columbus. 
"Don is married and has three boys. His business location is the Huntington Bank  (4-YEAR TERM)  Cleveland, Ohio 
 Chicago, Illinois 

Bldg., where he maintains a suite of offices. He was known to the student body as "Pep­per" and still has that reputation through­out central Ohio." 
AMBROSE A. O'CONNELL 

Ambrose O'Connell, '07, is a graduate of 
the course of History and Economics. He 
was president of his class, president of the 
Iowa Society of Notre Dame, business man­
ager of Tlie Dome, and a member of the 
track team and the dramatic society. For 
a number of years he represented the Chi­
cago Tnhutie, the Chicago Record Herald, 
the Indianapolis News, the South Bend 
Tribune, the South Bend Neius, and the As­
sociated Press at Notre Dame. He was pri­
vate secretary to the Very Rev. Andrew 
Morrissey and the Very Rev. John Cava­
naugh, president of the University. 
After leaving Notre Dame, Mr. O'Con­nell attended the law school of Columbia University in New York and was graduat­ed in 1910, having been elected a member of the legal fraternity of Phi Delta Phi. He is a member of the New York and Federal Bar, and for a number of years was asso­ciated with the Supreme Court in New York. On Jan. 1 he joined the staff of the Guarantee Trust Company, 140 Broadway. 
Mr. O'Connell has been pi-esident of the Marquette Club of New York for fifteen years, and president of the Iowa Society of New Yozk for a number of years. He has a very fine record in the administrative af­fairs of oi-ganization work. He resides at Forest Hills Gardens, Long Island, and was married in 1912 to Hedwig Heide, the late Dr. Morrissey performing the ceremony. Mr. O'Connell is the. father of three chil­dren, Ambrose Jr., Jean, and Robert. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
SINNOTT ON FEDERAL BENCH 
President Coolidge announced the ap­pointment of Hon. Nicholas J. Sinnott (A. 
B. '92) to the United States Court of Claims on April 18. The Court is an outgro\vth of the United States Supreme Court and Judge Sinnott's appointment is one of the greatest honors in the legal profession that has ever been confei-red upon a Notre Dame man. Frederick William Wile, '91, LL.D., '24, commenting in the Washington Star, on the appointment, says: 
Eepresentative Nicholas J. Sinnott, Re­publican, of Oregon, whom President Cool­idge has just appointed to the United States Court of Claims, is a long, lanky son of the State that has sent him to Congress for the past eight tei-ms. He is famed in the an­nals of his alma mater, the University of Notre Dame, from which he was gi-aduated in the class of 1892. Long before the "Four Horsemen" gave the "Fighting Irish" fame, Sinnott was not only a football star of No­tre Dame, but the holder of its all-around athletic championship. He carries a gold medal which attests his prowess on the dia­mond, on the track, in the swimming pool, in the boxing arena and on the gridiron. Sinnott gave promise 36 years ago of be­coming a congressional orator, for he was class valedictorian at Notre Dame in '92. As chairman of the House public lands com­mittee, the Oregonian has been a potent 
factor in contemporary legislation on Capi­tol Hill. His colleagues in the House re­joice at a promotion in public service which will keep the other "Nick" a resident of Washington. 
• • • • • • •> • • • • • • • • <' '> '> •> 

LETTERS 
•> »> •> •-« •?• 

Dear Sir: 
I have just read the April edition of the Notre Dame Alumnus and ivas very much impressed by the article entitled "Endowment." It sug­gested to me a rather interesting experience I had and I thought it well worth passing on to the members of the Alumni Association. 
I recently met an official of an eastern uni­versity who had just returned from Europe. It seemed that the object of his tour was to secure originals of famous documents. During the course of his travel he had been in Spain, where he read the orig-inal Will of Christopher Columbus. I was interested and asked him to tell me about it. 
-•Vs we all know from history, the King and Queen of Spain promised Columbus one-tenth of all of the new lands he discovered. "When Col­umbus died he was under the impression that he was a very wealthy man and it was in this belief that he prepared a very lengthy testa­ment disposing of his estate. The professor had a copy of the Will and I read the entire document and copied the following which I know will be of interest to Catholics: 
"In the name of the Most Holy Trinity, who inspired me with the idea and afterward made it perfectly clear to me, that I could navigate and go to the Indies from Spain, by traversing the ocean westwardly; which I communicated to the King, Don Ferdinand, and to the Queen, Dona Isabella, our Sovereigns; and they were pleased to furnish nie the necessary equipment of men and ships and to make me their admiral over the said ocean. 
When a 'suitable time shall arrive, he shall order a church to be built in the island of Espanola, and in the most convenient spot, to be called Santa Maria de la Conception; to which is to be an­nexed an hospital, upon the best possible plan, like those of Italy and Castile, and a chapel is to be erected in which to say mass for the good of my soul, and those of my ancestors and successors with great devotion, since no doubt it will please the Lord to give us a sufficient revenue for this and the afore-mentioncd purposes. 
I also order Diego my son, or whosoever may inherit after him, to spare no pains in having and maintaining in the island of Espanola, four good professors in theology, to the end and aim of their studying and laboring to convert to our holy faith the inhabitants of the Indies; and in proportion as by God's will the revenue of the estate shall increase in the same degree shall the number of teachers and devout persons increase, who are to strive to make Christians of the natives; in attaining which no expense should be thought too great. And in commemoration of all that I hereby ordain, and of the foregoing, a monument of marble shall be erected in the said church of La Conception, in the most conspicuous place to serve as a record of what I here enjoin on the said 
Diego, as well as to other persons who maj- look upen it which marble shall contain an inscription to the same effect. 
The most important thing in the document from the professor's point of view was the provision requiring his son Diego to maintain in the 'sland of Espanola at least four good professors of the­ology and a greater number as the income of the estate increased. 
The professor said that this was the first in­stance in all history of the endowment of edu­cation bj-a last will and testament. What a wonderful inspiration for Catholics and particu­larly the Catholic society known as the Knights of Columbus! All of us should follow the example of Columbus as well and the advice set out in the article on endowment in your April issue of the Alumnus and made a provision for our Alma Mater even though it may be a small bequest. 
These small bequests will accumulate in time and Notre Dame will be able to hold its position as the premier Catholic University in America. 
Tours for a greater endowment, "OI.D STDDEST." 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
J. p. MCNAMARA 



ATHLETICS 
X. D. BASEBAXL SCHEDDXE—1928 
April 3—X. D. 2 Fort BennInK 1 
April 4—X. D. 3 Fort Bennine 4 April a—>'. n. 3 Fort Benning 2 April 6—>•-». 3 la. State 3 April 7—^X. D. I^. State rai.i April 0—^X. D. Loyola rain April 10—X. D. Loyola rain April 11—X. D. C •'Spring HiU 6 April 12—^X. D. 6 Spring HiU 1 April 13—^X. D. 4 Vanderbilt 3 April 17—X. D-3 Kalamazoo Col 0 April 21—^low-a at X. D. rain April 24--X. D. 13 W. S. Xormal 11, home April 27—^X. D. 7 Wabash 1 away April 28—X. D. 9 Butler 2 away Jlay 1—^X. D.7 Minnesota 2, home May 4—X. D. 4 West Va, 3, home May 4—X. D.14 West Va.2, home 
[double-header] 
May 8—^X. D. 9 Wabash 2, home May 10—Luther, Decorah, la. 3Iay 11—Coe, Cedar Kapids May 12—^lowa, Iowa City 3Iay 14—Bradley, X. D. May 15—Xorthwestem, F\-anston May 18—Illinois, Ctuunpaign May 19—St. Tiator. Bourbonnals May 22—Butler, X. » . May 24—Micli. State, E. Lansing May 26—St. Viator, X. D. June 1—^Indiana, Bloomington June 3—Mich. State, X^J>. [Commencem't] June 5—A'illanova, Philadelphia June 6—^Holy Cross, Worcester June 7—Boston College, Boston June 9—^Harvard, Boston June 11—^Xew Hampshire, Durham June 14—^Pro\-idence, Proridenr-e June 15—^Amherst, Amherst June 16—Cornell, Ithaca 
BASEBALL 
The above scores speak eloquently enough of the way Coach Tommy Mills and his nine have been knocking around the coun­try. Tommy has shifted his lineups and altered his pitchers to good advantage and the Notre Dame team now presents a snap­py, hard-hitting front to the best opponents. The hurling staff of Jachym, Rust, and Young Ed Walsh has been working well, bolstered considerably by the increasingly good work of "Tank" Donahue and Bob Walsh, another of Big Ed Walshs' sons. Joe Lordi has been holding dowm the catch­ers' job behind these pitchers, and hitting like a big leaguer. The team has a stiff gi-oup of mid-West teams to tackle yet and leaves the first week in June for an eight-game barnstorm of the best sections of the Eastern collegiate world. Many alumni in the East are planning on attending the games and indications are that they will see some real baseball as she is not ex­plained to the co-eds. 
TRACK 
Jack Elder has been the oustanding star of the Notre Dame track season and is be­ing spoken of very highly as an Olympic candidate. The little Kentucky sprinter took the 100-yard dash at the Drake Re­lays April 28 in ten seconds flat against a wind. He ran a qualifying heat the preced­ing day in 9 4-5 seconds. The two-mile re­lay team, Stephan, Quigley, Bill Brown and Abbott, placed fourth in a close race at the Drake games. 
The same quartet scored a brilliant vic­tory at the Southern Relays in Atlanta, April 14. Elder, Redgate, McGauley and England gave Notre Dame a second in the 880-yard sprint relay in the Southern games. Elder was also on a team with Kelly, England and Abbott whoi finished third to Iowa in the sprint medley. Elder was bested in the 100-yard event by Cum­mings of Virginia in a close race. 
FOOTBALL 
Spring football has been progressing in mid-season form vnth Rock's tournament system in operation and six teams compet­ing for a steak dinner with spirit that would do them proud in the Fall contests. The Army and Wisconsin have been the league leaders in the'toumament to date of writing. Watching the six teams in com­petition, one wonders at the stir that the Big Ten's t^vo-team plan is causing. Bul­letin: Wisconsin beat Southern California 12-6, May 9, for the League championship. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Universal Notre Dame Night Big Success 
AItKA>SAS 

Rev. George F. X. Strassner, president, and ^\'arren Baldwin, secretary, sent a telegram o£ greeting to Father 'Walsh. "Notre Dame Arkansas Alumni Club observes Universal Night. Years of prosperity to old N. D., faculty, priests, brothers and sisters. 
BUFFALO 

"The Notre Dame Club of Buffalo celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night last evening with a dinner dance at the Hotel Statler. . . . Several of the ladies present last night attended the same function last year, and more than one of them remarked to me that these functions were the outstanding social event of tl>e season for them. . . . The Statler people both last year and this, more than spread themselves. . . . Jay L. Lee, president." 
CALUMET DISTKICX 

What with HUGH CARROLL'S satisfying finan­cial report and the success of TIM G.-VLVIN'S political steam roller and the remarks of JOHNNY SJIITH and the speech af ART H.A.L,EY, the observation of Universal Notre Dame Night, by the Notre Dame Club of the Calumet Region, was a considerable success. 
Th observation took the form of a dinner served in PHIL SillDT'S fish house in Hammond. FLOY^D MURRAY, a Notre Dame enthusiast and a guest at the repast, sliowed his apprecia­tion of the honor by leading the way in the de­struction of perch,—or maybe it was halibut. DR. J. A. CHEVIGNY, of Hammond, father of Johnny, one of Rock's brightest prospects for next fall, was called away by professional duties be­fore he had got fairly into the race with Murray 
After the mountain of piscatorial backbones had been carted away. CHICK B.\DER, of Garj-, the president, turned the steam into the speakers. Secretary FRANK GALVIN donned, at Chick's request, all the dignity of the legal profession and read the greetings from Father Walsh. Father O'Donnell, Rock and JIayor Montgomery of South Bend. 
Then Treasurer CARROLL, of East Chicago, said somewhere within his 15-minute report that, since the club liad no money and owed none, it was in excellent financial condition. This report, in all its details, was unanimously adopted. 
Afterwards Johnny Smith told about prospect.') for next fall and Art Haley offered new sug­gestions as to how to get a seat on the 49-yard line the day before the Navy game next October. Art also said inspiring things about the recent development of Notre Dame; he referred especially to the new dining hall and to the new sense of pride which it has aroused in the university. 
Then there were the elections. TIM GALVIN'S machine demonstrated its entire effectiveness by 
sweeping into office, without the slightest oppo­
sition, its complete slate of candidates. These 
are the new navigators of the club: IKE LOWER, 
Gary, president; MEL ROHRB.\CH, Crown Point, 
vice-president; BILL DOOLEY, Hammond, secre­
tary; PAUL BEN.A.NTE, East Chicago, treasurer. 
.A.fter the elections, the class of '26, having seen 
honored two of its number,—DOOLEY BEN.\NTE 
—had a joy session all its own. 
The Calumet gang turned out well for the 
dinner. JIMMIE EGAN, now of the Knights of 
Columbus Club-Hotel in Gary, came over. JOHN 
STANTON, prominent Gary barrister, was also 
there, but for some reason his brother, DAVE, 
didn't show up. PAT 3IALONEY drove from 
Gary, too, but he, like John Stanton, left his 
brother [Mikel] at home. HARRY" H.A.GUB, of 
Gary, never misses a Universal Night, so he was 
present. 
.A.nd then, besides all those mentioned, in some way, heretofore, there were all these: JOB DON.-VLDSON, L.\RRY BIEKER, MIKE SWY­GERT, LES TR.WIS, and DOC SULLIVAN, all of Hammond; RAY DIVER of Calumet City, Illinois; JOHN KIRK and RAY MATTHEWS of Gary. And a host of others who, because they neglected to make themselves known to the new secretary, are not on the rolls of the metings. ED. AHLER­ING, of Hammond, had expected to be there, but because of the recent dearth of his mother, he had been detained in South Bend. 
CHICAGO 

"One of the most unique celebrations in the history of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago was staged on "Universal Night" by a Committee head­ed by Frank Pitzsimmons, Tom McCabe and John Norton. 
"Last j-ear we had Corned Beef and Cabbage so this year the Committee decided on Pork Sausages and Sauer-ICraut, together with some "incidentals" that were very well received. 
"It was a German Night. The dinner started witli an old fashioned German Band, "The Ira-mortal Five," leading the procession of waiters who came carrying platters of pretzels and "inci­dentals" into the dining-room. The evening ended with a speech in German by Mark Foote of th* Class of '77. Nobody could check on Mark so everybody voted his German measured up to th« excellence of the food. 
George Keogan was the guest of honor. Rocky Wolf of the Chicago Journal and Nick Kearns, the Big Ten Referee, were the other two speakers. Both George ICeogan and Nick Kearns discussed athletic conditions and had the crowd with them from the very start. 
"The Committee had arranged some clever signs around the banquet-hall as "When better foot-ball teams are built Rockne will build them." There is no argument on this sign at all. Another placard ran "Famous Irishmen: Eiehenlaub, Stuhldreher, Ruehlbach, Miller, etc." 
"During the dinner letters from Father "Walsh, 
Father O'Donnell, Knute Rockne, Mayor Mont­
gomery, and Jim Armstrong were read. Tele­
grams came in from other Kotre Dame Clubs in 
America. 
"A resolution was passed to attend the Com­
mencement exercises in a body. 
"Dan O'Connor spoke on the Scholarsliip Fund: 
Byron Kanaley on the Professors Fund; and Frank 
O'Shaughnessy and George Maypole on the Club 
attending the Commencement exercises; and Dick 
Brennan on the May Dance, which is scheduled 
for Jlay 11th at the Drake Hotel. 
"When the festivities were over the 250 Xotre 
Dame men who had gathered in the Louis 'KVl 
Room to celebrate "Universal Night" felt that they 
had spent a wonderful evening." 
"Joe Sullivan, President of the Notre Dame 
Club, acted as Toastmaster." 
CLE>TELAND and AKKOX 
Fifty-tAvo members o£ the Cleveland Club, aug­
mented by the N. D. Club of Akron, and the 
famous Wooster Club, celebrated the Night in 
fine old Cleveland fashion. Charles "Chuck" Moo­
ney Jr., was elected president of the Club for the 
new year. 
XOTKE DAME CLUB OF DATTOX 
Dear Mr. Armstrong: 
Yours of the first at hand. 
The Miami Valley Notre Dame Club had its 
meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night at the 
Gibbons Hotel, and it was proposed, and unani­
mously adopted, that the name of the Club 
should be changed to the Notre Dame Club of 
Dayton. The following officers were elected: 
Josepli B. Murphy, President, 
Parrell Johnston, Secretaary. 
TRUSTEES: 
Hon. H. L. Ferneding, 
John Shea, 
H. Beckman Ohmer, 
We had a very enthusiastic meeting and were honored by the presence o£ an old alumnus, Phil Friedlander, who at the present time is broad­casting over one of our local stations. 
The committee appointed for this aftair was Edwin Shea, Chairman, Gene Mayl and "William 
C. Kavanaugh. 
J. B. Murphy. 
DENVER 
"Held meeting of alumni this evening which proved very successful. All present reapproved their continued interest in Xotre Dame and pledged their support to every effort of the Blue and Gold. Jim Logan, president." 
DES MOINES 
Des Moines observed the Night under new offi­cers, John "W. Newman, president, and Earl "Walsh, secretary-treasurer. The Club gave the track team a nice party after the Drake relays, and seems to be on its way to a real year of activities. 
DETROIT 
"Detroit Notre Dame men met last night at Detroit Yacht Club and enjoyed evening reciting the incidents of days gone by. Our guest speaker 
was Father Kieth who is dean of men at Uni­versity of Detroit. . , . Our guest of honor was Van "Wallace and we pledged ourselves to remain true Notre Dame men by trying to make him comfortable and happy. "We request the remem­brance of your Congregation and student body in their prayers' for this unfortunate boy. Re­member Detroit is for you all the time. Joe Collins, president." 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
Tlie Editor had the pleasure of attending a meeting of the D. C. Club on April 19, at which time Dr. J. A. Flynn was elected president to succeed Frederick "William "Wile. About 35 men, including a delegation of IS from Holy Cross, attended the meeting in the Press Club. Dr. Flynn is a real Notre Dame man and it looks as though his entliusiasm is going to be contagious for the "Washington Club. 
GREEK B.\Y 
"The Universal Notre Dame Night was observed by the local Notre Dame Club, with a dinner at the Beaumont Hotel. A telegram of congratu­lation was sent to the Reverend Father Matthew Walsh, C. S. C, President of the University. 
"The local club, in the years of its existence, has functioned in a desultory manner. It was evident at the meeting, that the club is to be a new^ lease of life. A constitution and by-laws were adopted, and regular meetings are to be held throughout the year. 
New officers were elected for the year as follows: Robert Lynch, 1903— President; Thomas Herndon, 1927—Vice. President; John V. Dlener, 1909—Secretary; Earl C. Lambeau, 1919—Treasurer. 
Immediately after the election of officers, the nev Treasurer proceeded to collect the dues for the ensuing year, and the local organization is financially sound for the first time in its existence. 

"It was decided to hold a meeting in the month of July, to which the students who live in this Community and the Alumni of the Fox River Valley are to be invited. 
"Besides the officers elected, the following Alumni and old students were present at the gathering: Edmund Arvey, "09, John Martin, '15, Chris Dockry, '16, James Crowley, '25, Harold Londo, '24, Cyril Meyer, '27, John V. Diener, Secretary. 
IXDIAXAPOLIS 

"Reporting on Universal Notre Dame Night, I want to tell you we had a very encouraging meeting. Prof. Phillips was with us, together with Dutch Bergman. Mr. Phillips spoke on "The Responsibilities of Alumni Toward Present Day Students." Dutch just happened to be in town with the University of Minnesota baseball team; at the close of the meeting he told us about Notre Dame-Minnesota games in recent years, as seen from his" point of view. Our football films arrived late, and, as we were expecting the small size film, we had to do a lot of hustling to find a standard projector. President Keach located one while we were eating dinner. Margaret Anglin was playing in—'-ajiplomacy," at one of the local theatres, and because of her Notre Dame affilia­
tions—Laetare Medallist, booster, etc.,—we elected 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
her to honorary membership in the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis. We believe we are the first alumni club to so honor ourselves. Last night Frank McCarthy and myself spent a very pleasant hour with Hiss Anglin. You know how 
• three K. D. fellows talk when they get together. But to get back to Monday night. There were about fifty of us at the banquet, including Clar­ence Sweeney, our other honorary member, who "went to Cornell, but wishes he had gone to Kotre Dame." 
Regarding the Commencement exercises, expect quite a few of us. At first we were all coming, but someone thought of business, so now I think about every other member of our Club will be a fair estimate, Verj- truly. Bob 'Worth." 
IXTEKMOUNXAIN. >". D. CL,UB Dear Mr. Armstrong: I wish to report to you regarding the Notre Dame Club of Utah's dinner and "get together" meeting, on Universal Notre Dame night. We had an attendance of twelve. "We antici­pated having about sixteen, but due to business and other pressing,engagements, some of tlic boys could not attend. To say the- least, we had a very enjoyable evening, and the old Notre Dame spirit was certainly in evidence. The annual election of officers took place, and Mr. R. R. Brady was unanimously re-elected as president, and the writer was elected as secre­tary. An executive committee was also appointed, consisting of Mr. Charles Kahler, Mr. Samuel C. Powell, and the Reverend Patrick McGuire. This was done with the idea of having them draw up contitution and by-laws, and it was proposed to change the name to the "Intermountain Notre Dame Club" In place of the "Notre Dame Club of Utah." There are at least six or eight former Notre Dame men in the immediate vicinity of Salt Lake, in the neighboring states of Nevada and Idaho. 
We hope that meetings held by the other various clubs throughout the country on Universal Notre Dame Night were as successful as ours. 
Sincerely yours, 
H. E. Weiss. 
JOLIET 

"Greetings from the Joliet Club. Our gang Is gathered here in our first Universal Night celebra­tion, but in spirit we are with you. A special hello to the .Toliet boys who are there." 
R:\NSAS CITY 

Dear Mr. Armstrong: 
Sorry I was not able to send in tlie data on our celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night sooner, but was called out of town iramediateb' after, and couldn't make it. Here it is if you can use it. 
As per schedule we met at the Missouri Ath­letic Club, and started the evening with refresh­ments to cheer up the crowd. Then a wonderful dinner perfectly served, during which we heard the N. D. songs on the Orthophonic. jVfter din­ner a musical number by Miss Wirth, a charming soprano. Tom Holland, '17, gave an address repre­senting the N. D. Club. Tom performed nobly. A banjo and mandolin duet with songs by the Chartier boys. 
The letters from Notre Dame read by Henry Burdiok, Vice-President of the Club. Henry was good as usual. Jlusical numbers by the Soden trio. Very Rev. J. J. Gunn, C. SS. R. gave the principal addiess, "The Spirit of Catholic Uni­versity Training." Movies of some of the football games. -Address by Mr. Ryan, President of the Miissouri jVthletio Club. [Who is a warm supporter of N. D. affairs.] Musical number by Charles Stickel, who arranged the program with Ed. Mc­Grath. Ex. '21. Dr. D. M. Nigro was Toastmaster, and arranged the entertainment with Joseph Stewart, Ed. McGrath and Maurice Carroll. 
Thirty-five Notre Dame men attended the cele­bration. Maurice Carroll, Sec. 
KENTDCKY 

The Colonels are tearing things up. The first copy of their Club magazine. The Kentuckian, the first of its kind as far as the Editor knows, ap­peared recently. It is edited by Martin F. "Mike" Sullivan, '25, and is a neat and interesting de­parture, appearing quarterly. And this from Eddie Pfeiffer: "The Notre Dame Club of Kentucky certainly did celebrate Universal Notre Dame Night and put it on in grand style. We held this memorable affair at Sennings Park and from all indications it was by far the most peppy gather­ing we have had to date. We had a few acts of clever entertainment and wound up with food and drink in the old Kentucky style. About 33 were on hand, which by the way is the largest gathering we have ever had; but which we think will never be any smaller in the future. I am telling you, Jim, it was a wonderful party and I am sure it will linger long in the minds of those that were present. Our Club here is getting 
momentum with each meeting, and before long nothing, not even Rock's Tribe, will be able to stop us." 
I.OS AINGXXES 

"Strong Contingent Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles gathered at rousing dinner to-night send renewed assurances of affection and remembrance of .A.lma Mater. Classes from '91 to '24 repre­sented. . . . Henry Dockweiler and Frank Barry, committee." 
MILWAUKEE 

"We did have a good time April 23, so good in fact that we forgot to wire our greetings. Frank Burke announced his intention of attend­ing the twenty-fifth Commencement since his graduation. James Wasson had to be absent for the first time, because of business in California. Freeman Fitzgerald was ill, but he has paid his dues and continues to improve athletics at Mar­quette. I had hoped to hear Father Carroll speak at the inauguration of Father Magee as pres­ident of Marquette, but the N. D. reunion con­flicted. We heard that Father Carroll injected some valuable ideas on education into a large concourse at the Milwaukee auditorium. Pat Powers, who bids fair to become next president of the Eagles here deserted his campaign head­
quarters to show his loyalty to Notre Dame. So 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
wo inducted him to the office of Chaplain. James Wheeler is our new Secretary-treasurer. Tom Kelly and Frank Burke were elected vice-presi­dents. Frank Cleary and 1 announced the arrival of daughters since our last meeting and we heard that Dr. "Haggle" Burns of Kalamozoo has a similar good fortune. . . . J. E. Dundon, president." 
MOXTAXA 
Good news from Bishop Finnigan's diocese. "Montana to-night joins the ranks of Notre Dame Clubs and our first action is to send the old school our heartiest greetings, Albert J. Galen, president; James B. O'Flynn, Secretary." 
NASHVILLE 
•While the attendance was not as large as some of the other clubs, yet there •was not a more enthu­siastic and enjoyable meeting than that held by the Nashville Notre Dame Club in the private dining room of the Tulane Hotel. There were present at this meeting students of the years ISGo, 1S70, 1SS3 and subsequent years. 
The three oldest students present were Jlerritt 
S. Pilcher and Frank Sharenber who were at tlie university sixty three years ago, and Frank 
J. Ready during the year 1S70. Also Frank 
•Worley ISSl. Ferdinand E. Kuhn 'S3 President of the Club, presided and Harrj- L. Claiborne acted as Secretary. 
Nothing was more enjoyed than the interesting reminiscences of the oldest students who were at the college when the news of the assassi­nation of Lincoln and the fall of Nashville dur­ing tlie war between the states; also the burn­ing of Chicago. 
Joseph and Chas. Scheffer formerly of the col­lege, told of the wonderful improvements made recently. 
Ferdinand E. Kuhn 'S3 was elected President; Merritt S. Pilcher Vice-President and Harry L. Claiborne, Secretary. 
NEW JEKSEV 
The Editor enjoyed the Night in New Jersej' himself. Thirty-five fellows gathered at Dietsch's restaurant in Newark for a splendid meal and get-together. The gang that put over last month's Alumnus was out in force and it was easy to see how they did it. They're getting set out there to elect new officers next month, but they'll have to go some to keep up with the record of ad­ministrations to. date. 
NEW OKLEANS 
P. E. Burke, president of the Club, and the Club as a group, were busy Easter week entertain­ing the members of the Notre Dame baseball team, who stopped in New Orleans three days on their Southern trip. The team members were kept pleasantly busy throughout the entire stay through the efforts of Mr. Burke and the Club and the Holy Cross priests and brothers in New Orleans. 
NEW YORK 
In spite of a lot of time that members of the Club spent at the sessions of the Catholic Alumni Federation and in making the Editor's stay in 
N. T. pleasant, the N. T. Club had a big turn­out Universal N. D. Night. William E. Cotter was elected president and Joe Burke, secretarj". With 
a surplus in the treasury, Lou Wagner was re­elected treasurer. The Club is planning big plans 

which  promise  to  go  over  equally  as  big  as  
planned.  
NOTRE  DAM£  

The hub of the Universal celebi'ation was also rather busy. In addition to the St. Joe Valley alumni celebration, details later, the new Dining Hail served a delicious banquet to the entire student body, celebrating the occasion. A. spe­cial pamphlet outlining the observance of the Night, and its, purposes, was prepared by the Students -Activities Council and the .A.lumni Office and placed at the plate of each student. The 
observance marked the entrance of the student body into the activities of the Night and next year's program on the campus will be more ex­tensive. 
PHII.ADELPIIIA 

"Our dinner at the Adelphia the 23rd was attended by about 20 old students and alumni. Considerable time was spent discussing tlie prepa­ration for events in connection with the football game to be played this fall in Philadelphia be­tween N. D. and Penn State» It was decided that we would hold a dance at the Bellevue Hotel the night of the game. In view of tlie fact that It will be the initial appearance of the team m this city It Is hoped that we will be able to make the affair a big one. . . . The following new officers were elected, James A. O'Donnell, president; Augustus Desch, vice-president; Vincent McNally, secretary-treasurer. . . . James A.O'­Donnell." 
POKTLANTJ 

Dear Sir: Our former president of the Oregon Association, Mr. William Schmitt, has asked me to write you a report of our meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night. So I shall attempt to give you a brief description of what transpired at that memorable meeting, and shall also inclose a list of those who attended that you may know who are most active in this section of the country. A very fine dinner was served at the University Club, after wliicli Jlr. Schmitt called the meet­ing to order and suggested that Insofar as many of those present had traveled some distance to be there that each member introduce himself and tell something of his experience at Notre Dame. You have only to note that there were 31 present to realize that this was quite an ordeal, espe­cially when it came time for George Nyere and Frank Lonergan to extol the surpassing virtues of the 'ol football team. They fought over many battles, put the Four Horsemen to shame twice, and elected Red Salmon of their day the great­est player that ever skived from Sorin. AH of the talks were verj- Interesting and entertaining, and we of Oregon became much better acquainted with each other than we have ever before. This fact was largely duo to the e.xcellent manner In which Bill Schmitt conducted the meeting and brought us all together. He worked hard and tirelessly to round up from all over the State and put over the finest meeting we have had to date. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Mr. E. F. 0"Flynn, '09 was elected President 

for the ensuing year; Mr. Nat McDougall, '00. 
"Vice-president, and Mr. Hugh Lacy, 'U, secretary. 
After the election of officers. Father Eugene Burke 
led at the piano with the Victory March and 
the Hike Song, and after the ceremony, Fr. Burke 
entertained us with his famous songs, "The Sweet­
heart of Notre Dame," "Dear Old Sorin," etc. 
I am sure that each of us left the meeting 

with a stronger spirit and even deeper love for 
the old school whose name we cherish so highly. 
Our membership is widely scattered in this stale, 
but we all made the firm resolution that we would 
try hard to meet more often and do more con­
structive work in the Interests of Notre Dame 
in Oregon. Under the guidance of a man like 
Mr. O'Flynn we should be able to at least make 
a start that will eventually mean much to Notre 
Dame and to her offspring in this city, Columbia 
University. 
Very truly yours, 
CHARLES J. HIRSCHBUHL. 
ROCIEESTER 

Rochester came through true to form and had a rip-roaring party the 23rd. Tlie scene was Tyler's Inn, Pittsford, a little out of Rochester. Stories of Notre Dame were the order of the even­ing. Herm Cenlivre, ex-captain of the tennis team, who is working in Rochester, was a guest. Twenty-five of the boys were there. Gerry Smith, who sent in a complete account, points out Rochester's activities this year as a fine outlook. They certainly have been going strong. 
SAIXT JOSEPH A'ATLEY 

Space is all too meager. One hundred and twenty-five St. Joe Valley Alumni gathered in the new Dining Hall at Notre Dame for the finest Universal celebration ever staged in local precincts. A. R. Erskine, president of the Studebaker Corporation, was made honorary presi­dent of the Club. Abe Livingston was elected president, succeeding the dynamic Mike Donahue as moving spirit of the Club. Father John Cavanaugh was chosen for chaplain. Paul Butler was re-elected secretary. K. K. Rockne; Rev. WillLnm Bolger, C. S. C.; retiring President Dona­hue [in the sense of leaving office]; Mr. Erskine; John Nicholson, track coach; Dr. Leslie Clough; Coach Tommy Jlills, and Otto Klum, athletic di­rector of Hawaii U. spoke Several acts of enter­tainment concluded a really high-powered program. 
The Club, with Saint ^Mary's alumnae in the Valley, is sponsoring the annual Glee Club concert and dance at the Palais Royale on May 7. 
SPOKANE 

The Spokane Chronicle carried quite a little article about the two-man observance of the Night in Spokane. A letter from Dr. Henry B. Luhn gave more interesting facts. Dr. Luhn, captain of the first football team, and Maurice "Clipper" Smith, famous guard 1917-1921, got together and hashed over football from 1SS7 through 192S. Clipper wants a game with Hunk Anderson's St. Louisf team. Hunk and he having been room-mates at N. D. The Gonzaga team, where Clipper is athletic director and football coach, plas's Slip Madigan's team at Spokane next Armistice Day. 
Gonzaga, which defeated Idaho, the Pacific chanjps, last year, will be intact for the coming season and is looked on as a Pacific power in football. Clipper and Dr. Luhn expect to be at the South­ern Cal., game Dec. 1, in Los Angeles. 
SiKACUSE Dear Jim: 
The -Annual Meeting of the Notre Dame Club 

of Syracuse and Central New York was held on 
Monday night, April 23, in teh private dining 
room of Schraftts, I had the honor of being 
elected secretary and treasurer for the coming 
year. 
The meeting was called to order at 6:30 P. M. 

with an attendance of 17 members. Mr. Geo L. 
Kinney, 3729 Midland .A.ve., Syracuse, was elected 
president for the coming year. The various corre­
spondence from you was read at the meeting, 
ans a letter from the Rev. Hugh O'Donnell in 
regard to commencement wa salso read. A reso­
lution was passed that all the alumni present 
would attend commencement this year in tribute 
to our beloved president. Rev. Matthew J. Walsh. 
Arrangements were made for the local alumni 

to purchase a block of 50 tickets for the Army-
Notre Dame Game next fall and take special car.": 
from Syracuse. Arrangements were also made 
for the local alumni to attend the Cornell-Notre 
Dame baseball game on June 1. It is possible 
that we will get all the Notre Dame supporters 
in Syracuse to accompany the alumni. We hope 
to have not less than 50 present in our group. 
The oldest alumnus attending our dinner on 

Monday night was John P. Hayes, class of 1901. 
Mr. Hayes is now located in Syracuse with the 
Central New York Mortgage and Bond Co. 
I will appreciate it very much if you will get 

in touch with the chairman of the Notre Dame 
Club of Syracuse at school and ask him to 
confer with Mr. Kinney or myself as soon as he 
returns in June. It is necessary for us to have 
a complete record of all undergraduates from 
from Syracuse and the vicinity. • 
During the past year there have been several meetings at noon for luncheon and others in the evening for dinner. We are planning to met on the first Monday of each month at 12:15 P. M. in Schraffts. We will also hold frequent dinner meeting during the year. Plans were discussed for a golf tournament to be held at the Skaneat­eles Country Club, some time in late Jone or early September. We hope that all the under­graduates will be present at this tournament. Those who do not play golf will be expected to join the golfers for dinner. 
EDWARD MCLAUGHLIN, SEC­
TOLEDO 

Under the leadership of W. T. "Dolly" Gray, former baseball star, new president of the Toledo Club, elected at a meeting April 16, which the Editor was privileged to attend, Toledo started out with a bang on the 23rd. "The Toledo alumni extend to you a cordial greeting on this Universal Notre Dame Night. Seventy-five Notre Dame Toledo men met here to-night to celebrate. It was a very enthusiastic meeting, creating prospects for two permanent scholarships. A big UND for Notre Dame and Father Walsh." 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
TKI-CITIES 
I have put off writing this as long as possible. The members of the Notre Dame Club of Rock Island, Davenport and Moline have demanded that I send this on to you at this time. 
A new Notre Dame Club, which is called the Notre Dame Club of the Tri-Cities. that is con­sisting of Moline, Rock Island, Davenport and surrounding territory, including East Sloline and various small towns hereabout, was organized during the Christmas Holidays of 1927. A list of the members together with their addresses is attached. 
At the meeting during the Holidays, which was very well attended, the following officers were elected: 
James ilurphy. Rock Island, President; Harry llcCullough, Davenport, Iowa, Vice President; Francis King, East Moline, Secretary; Charles Sollo, Moline, Treasurer. This organization meeting was held at the Rock Island Elk's Club and everyone present was very enthusiastic and many good times were anticipated by all. A good many of the fellows said it was like being back at school for a short time. Everj-body, from Father Sorin to Mike in the locker room, Avas discussed. 
During the Easter Holidays a dinner dance was held for the Club members and their wives and to-be wives, at the LeCIaire Hotel in Moline. Tlie dance was well attended and everyone re­ported having a wonderful time. It was deter­mined at that time to hold another meeting of similar nature at the end of the school year. There is also being planned a social gathering, the exact nature of which is undetermined at this date, with the Tri-City, St. Mary's, Notre Dame Club. 
We have endeavored to get as complete a list of the Notre Dame men residing in this community as possible. However, we know there are some here whose names and addresses we have been unable to secure. If you find it convenient to make mention of the fact of the organization of this club in the next issue of the ALUMNUS, we would appreciate your also asking that all alumni get in touch with one of the officers of the club so that we may have this club become one of the most successful Notre Dame Clubs in the country. 
Of course, we are not big enough as yet to be of any great benefit to our Alma Mater, but to those interested, the success of the club seems assured. 
This is our first bit of news, but it will not be our last. "We shall endeavor to keep you in­formed as to further activities in the future. 
Tours for a greater Notre Dame, 
Charles Sollo. 
WABASH VAW.Er 
The Wabash "Valley Club met at the Lafeyette Club on the 23rd for a dinner, followed by a num­ber of features. Jimmy Phelan was the speaker of the evening. Noble Kizer, line coach with Jimmy's team, was also called upon. Father Jlono­lian, pastor of St. ilary's, had charge of the program. 
n'ESTERN PEXXSIXVAXIA 

"Rev. Matthew "Walsh: Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania celebrating to-night extends its greetings to you in full confidence that the University will continue to achieve great tilings in the future as it haS in the past. Congratula­tions. A. J. Freund, president." 
WTSTEKX WASHIKGTOX 

"The Club met on Universal Notre Dame Night for a banquet and entertainment at Hotel Butler at 7:00 P.M. The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Edward L. Cochrane, Presi­dent; William Tierney, Class '01, Vice Pre.=ident; William E. Cleaver, Secretary-Treasui'er. "The speakers of the evening were: 
E. Morriss Starett, who Spoke on Notre Dame athletic activities. 
Emmet G. Lenihan, Class '15, "Key-note" speak­er at the Republican King County Convention and regarded by many as senatorial timber, spoke on Political Philosophy. 
Sam Walker, Class '04, the "Mark Hanna" of the King County Republican party spoke on the high aspirations of the Notre Dame Alumni. 
Burrill Groseclose, Class '2G, gave the assem­bled guests late information as to the changed aspects of the campus, discipline, etc. 
"The guests were entertained by Herb Weidorft's Brunswick Recording Orchestra, who rendered the Victory March and special musical selections reminiscent of "school days." 
Provisions were made for the enterainment of Coaches Rockne and ICeogan on their Western trip.—W. A. Cleaver. Sec." 
WOMEN'S CLDB 

The' Editor understands unofficially that the Night was celebrated by several Communities whose Siiters have attended the summer sessions of the University. Tlie following resolutions were presented by Sr. M. Eleanore, C. S. C, president of the Club: 
WHBRE.A.S: Within recent years the president and the faculuty of the Universsity of Notre Dame have extended to the various religious communities and to other women the privilege of the edu­cational advantages of the university; And the Alumni Associatioin of the University of Notre Dame has extended to the women gradu­ates the privilege of forming the Women's Club within its membership: 
BE li RESOL"VED THAT: On the occasion of the celebration of Universsal Notre Dame Night the Women's Club offer to the president and the faculty and the members of the Alumni Associa­tion its sincerest felicitations and its heartfelt thanks for innumerable favors and kindnesses re­ceived during residence at the university and since graduation from it. 
To this resolution drawn on the twenty-third day of April, 192S, the president of the Women's Club wishes to offer her deepest loyalty and her sincerest gratitude to: 
The President and the Faculty of Notre Dame; 
The Members of the Alumni Association; 

The Members of the "Women's Club; .A.nd at the same time to wish them one and all. Many happy returns of the day! Sister M. Eleanore, C. S. C, President. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
YV7E PRESENT our compliments 
^^ to the Priests and Brothers of Notre Dame, the Faculty, "Rock," and the Student Body. 
Your achievements have increased the prestige of every American Catholic. 


The Marquette Club 
of the City of New York 
Hotel Plaza Fifth Avenue at 59th 


THE ALUMNI 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. CALLIX MILLER, '21, 1S61 N. 
Adams St., South Bend, announce the birth on 
April 19 of a daughter, Margaret JIary. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAJIES P. LOGAN ['IS] announce 
the arrival of Virginia Vanderhoot Logan on March 
26 at their home 28S4 Fairfax St. Denver. 
EXG.\GEMEXTS 

Papers throughout the country have been filled with pictures and announcements of the engage­ment of Miss Mary Agnes McEnery, popular Phila delphia society girl, and HARRY STUHLDREHER, quarterback of the Four Horsemen, a member of the famous Class of '20 the editor adds. Harry is to be married in June with DON MILLER, JIMMY CROWLEY and ELMER LAYDENT acting as ushers. "Rock" is expected to be among those present. Miss McEnery is a graduate of Trinity College, Washington, T>. C. The announcement said that the honeynioon would be in Europe. Harry has a flourishing tire business in addition to his directorship of athletics at Villanova College. 
JL^KKIAGES 
The Xew York Club sends word of the mar­riage of WILLIAM MURPHY, '22, on April 17, to Miss Elsie McArdle. The Club gave Bill a bache­lor dinner at the Palm Garden restaurant on April -11. Many of the members were at the Nup­tial Mass in Jackson Heights and the subsequent breakfast at the 2S E. G3rd St. Hotel. 
The marriage of Miss Lucille Katherine ICluck, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John S. Kluck of Ironwood Michigan and RICHARD F. ZILKY, '25, South Bend, Ind., took place at Ironwood, Mich., April 11. Mr. and Mrs. Zilky are now at home at the Washingfon-Colfax apartments. South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward B. Healy announce the marriage of their daughter Florence to MR. ^aNCENT D. O'MALLEY ['26], Saturday the four­teenth of April, 192S, Sacred Heart Church, Man­ning, Iowa. 
Mrs. Emma Sophia Wells announces the marriage of he- daughter Cliioe to MR. LEVI ALPHONSE GENIESSE, [.A.rch. E. '24], on Jlonday, April 9th, 192S, Washington, 
DE.\THS 
The Alumnus regrets to announce the death of REV. WALTER ELLIOTT, C. S. P., one of the oldest alumni of the University, and a distin­guished member of the Paulist order. Fatlier El­liolt died at the Apostolic Mission House April 19, and was buried from the motlier church of the Order, the Church of St. Paul the Apostle in New York, on April 21. He was known as "the 
grand old man of the Missions." He was S7, fifty-six years a priest. He was educated at the Christian Brothers College and at Notre Dame. He seri'ed through the Civil war as a private, losing two brothers during that war. He was ordained in 1872, Father Elliott was a pioneer in the mission field' among non-Catholics and was the author of many books on that and kindred subjects. His "Life of Christ" was translated into many modern languages. He was awarded an LL. D. by Notre Dame in 1914. He also preached at the Diamond Jubilee of the University in 1917. President Coolidse sent a letter of condolence to the Superior General of the Paulist Fathers on the death of Father Elliott praising his long years of service to his govern­ment as well as to his God. Cardinal Hayes presided and pronounced absolution at the funeral. 
Another prominent alumnus was lost through the death of W^ILLIAM DANIEL O'BRIEN a student at Notre Dame in "87, elected to the Association in 1923. Mr. O'Brien, president of the O'Brien Paint and Varnish Co., South Bend, Ind., returned from a business trip to Chicago on Tues­day night. May 1, and Mrs O'Brien found him dead in bed Wednesday morning, the result of a cerebral hemorrhage. He had been ill for two months but was considered on the road to recovery. Mr. O'Brien, president of the company since his father's death in 1913, was a civic leader in South Bend. He was born in South Bend and had an unlimited circle of friends. He is sur­vived by his wife, Mrs. Kate Listenberger O'Brien, one sister, Mrs. J. J. Crowley, Chicago, and three brothers, George L. O'Brien, South Bend; Frederick 
J. O'Brien, Los Angeles, and Frank B. O'Brien, Chicago. 
ARTHUR FOURNIER, a student at Notre Dame in '07, died suddenly in Hollywood, Calif., .\pril 13. Mr. Pournier was a young man,, 37, but had won considerable fame as a musical composer. He had just completed an operetta, "Hungarian Rhapsody," for New York stage pres­entation. He went from Js^otre Dame to the U. of Michigan, where he wrote several of the famous shows for the Michigan "mimes." 
3Irs. Louis I. Ahlering, mother of Edward Ahlering, '25, and prominent in the Scholarship Club, and other Catholic activities in South Bend, died suddenly of a heart attack at her home on April IS. She had attended a card party at the University the night before her death and was apparently in the best of healh. Mrs. Ahlering was one of the founders of the Scholarship Club and was known to many students of Notre Dame through her activities in this organization. She is survived by her mother, her husband, and six children. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
=^ 
4..—, »_=,_,,_._._._._„ 
—"-" =•—• 

Compliments 
Amalgamated Vaudeville Agency, Inc. 
1600 Broadway New York City 
*,— -B«—ai.^—w^M—«i.,_._„_._._,_„_„_._._„_.^ 
PEKSONAI-S 
1878 
ITFTY-yEAR KECXIOX 
1886 1887 1888 1889 
DEX PLAN KEUXIOX 
Be back. The other Reunion groups are hitting 
the high spots according to the preliminary dope. 
You've all got 20th century engines pulling those 
19th century chassis. Don't let anyone talk you 
out of it You'll respond to the gas and oil of 
the old filling station as snappily as the Five-
year Class if you'll simply drive in. 
GUS COOPER, who was at X. D. from 'S4 to 
S6, according to the cards, has disposed of the 
Julien-Dubuque hotel in Dubuque, Iowa. The 
Chicago broker who reported the deal quoted the 
approximate price as 5750,000. The hotel was 
purchased by the owner of the Metropole Hotel in 
Chicago. 
1895 
EUSTACE CULLIXAN Sr. probably supports all 
the claims of Chicago's lawlessness tliat come from 
the Pacific and Atlantic coasts. 3Ir. CuUinan and 
his wife, returning from a trip to Xew York, -were on the train that was held up by a lone bandit outside of Chicago in April. Mr. Cullinan lost several hundred dollars in the hold-up. FRANK 'WOLF DAVIS of Constahtine, a class­mate, called the occurrence ' to the attention of THE ALTJMXTJS, adding it was good to see that one old grad had more than fiftj- cents in his pocket. 
1900 
REV. JAMES H. MC'GIXXIS, who had been ill 
for a number of months, has returned to his 
parish in Goshen, Xew York. 
1903 
How about the come-back? Make it the snap­piest of the Commencement. Father Walsh has just had an experience that should set the pace of the Clas-T of '03. May 5 he was one of ten members of the Class of 1S97 of St. Columb­kille school, the entire class, who held a reunion as guests of a member of the Class, president of the Midland Club, Chicago. Every memher of the Class is alive and with the exception of Father TValsh and one other, a resident of Chi­cago. It was the first time in the 31 years since their graduation that they had met. And almost without exception, the ten men were at one time or another students at Notre Dame. The reunion 
group was: Bartly J. Condon, Rev. John "W. Mayer­hofer. Very Rev. M. J. "Walsh, C. S. C, Maurice J. Flynn, Dr. T. F. Courtney, William J. O'Connor, Lav.-rence -\. Murphy, J. Emmet O'Neill, John J. Griffin, and James F. Fardy. Tliere is a mark to shoot for! 
1905 1906 1907 1908 
Through the interest and efforts of FRANK CULL,, DAX O'COXXOR, PAUL, MC GANNOX and TOM LALLY, the Class of '23 is going to have to step to get ahead of this Dix group. Returns indicate that it won't be necessary to go out into the highways for guests. The Editor has heard rumors of a big dinner, but they haven't crystallized in publishable form yet. However, the Dining Hall has plenty of space and you'll probably hear from your secretary on it. If you haven't had some word from him already, please check up with the Alumni Office, as your address might be off on the Class list. 
1909 1910 
CHESTER FREEZE, 377 Milwaukee St., Milwau­kee and JAMES E. DEERY, have been the moving spirits in preparing for a "rump reunion" of the Classes of 1909-10 students who were in the Old College. The picture of a group of these men appears in these notes. The two guiding geniuses and F.A.THER MIKE MORIARTY of Wooster, O., have been drumming up the affair, but details Iiaving failed to arrive by press time, the Editor just wants to say to all the Old College gang of those two years, BE HERE and let some one of the three mentioned, or the Editor, know that you're coming. And you'll be taken good care of on arrival. 
W^ILL, D. O'SHEA, a student in '09, is a civil engineer at Fort Smith, Arkansas. 
CHARLES DE LUNDEN '09 writes an interesting note from 14S Rue de la Loi, Bruxelles, where he is an engineer. He said how glad he was to see Father Walsh last year on his trip to Europe and extended an invitation to other N. D. men to call on him when in Belgium. 
DARNAY A. KELLY, '10, who has been ill since July, is reported to be recovering and out again after his long siege. 
ATSRY REV. MICHAEL MATHIS, C. S. C, Su­perior of the Holy Cross Foreign Mission sem­inary, will deliver the address at the sixteenth annual commencement exercises of Central Catholic High School in Fort Wayne, June 14. BROTHER OWEN, C. S. C, '24, is principal of the school. 
1913 
E.A.RL S. DICKENS is now located in South Bend his home town, as president and general manager of the the Earle personally escorted tours. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 345 





CAMP ROCKNE 
A Summer Camp for Boys 
WINTER,  WISCONSIN  ­ ON  HUNTER LAKE  
JUNE 28  ­  EIGHT WEEKS  ­ AUGUST 23  
and  
Two four weeks periods.  

JUNE 28-JULY 26 and JULY 27-AUGUST 23 
EXPERT INSTRUCTION IN: 

Swimming, Canoeing, Baseball, Football, Basketball, Volleyball, Tennis and Track Woodcraft and Nature Work 
SUMMER SCHOOL aitd TUTORING Authorized credits in Primary and High School Subjects. 
DIRECTOR (and Chaplain) : Rev. John J. O'Boyle, M.A., Pio Nono High School, St. Francis, Wis., (Near Milwaukee). 
ATHLETIC DIRECTOR: Thomas J. Lieb, M.A., Asst. Football and Track Coach, U. of Wisconsin; Graduate of Boy Guidance Course, University of Notre Dame. 
Thi-ee resident Priests and two Physicians. 
Address Inquiries to: REV. J. J. O'BOYLE, Pio Nono H. S., St. Francis, Milwaukee, Wis. 
T. J. LIEB, Univ. of Wisconsin, Athletic Dept., Madison, Wis. 
Chicago Office: 
M. A. DWYER, 1663 E. 79th St. Phones (South Shore 7300 1 Stewart 5267 (Home) 
dealing in dude ranch vacations, horseback camp­ing trips, and tours of national parks, California and Alaska. The tours leave from and re­turn to Chicago, according to a very attractive announcement received at the Office. Earl also sent a few words from .T. V. Le'ELANC, JR.. who is living at 2301 Jlilan St., New Orleans, a classmate. 
•'A'alley** says he grows lonesome for word of the fellows he knew in school. He says that occasionally a Xotre Dame mnn drifts into the growing city of Xew Orleans, "Rock" and Gus Dorais were down there last winter. 

lOl.S In answer to a query in a recent issue of Tlie Columbia. Harry J. Kirk sends photographic proof that there are nine Kirks around the family table at meal times. Tliere are seven children, six girls and one boy, ranging in age from three weeks to eleven and one-half years. The four older girls are pupils in Father Fagan's school. Immaculate Conception. In the picture with Mr. and Mrs. Kirk are the seven children. Back row: Kathleen, 9 1-2 years; Margaret Mary, 11 1-2 years. and father; middle row: Dorothy, 4 1-2 years; Frances, three weeks; Patrick, 3 1-2 years, and mother; front row: Lucille and Gertrude, 7 1-2 years. 
Mr Kirk is State Highway Engineer, and re­cognized as one of tiie leaders in his profession. Among The Columbian readers there must be many others with nine or more around the table at  meal times. Their kind are the bulwark of the  Church, the State and the Nation, 


THE OSBORN ENGINEERING CO. 
7016 EUCLID AVE. CLEVELAND, OHIO 

ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS 
Stadiums Grandstands Athletic Fields 
TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE 
Twenty-one Stadiums and Athletic Fields Thirteen Baseball Parks Five Fair Ground Grandstands 
WE WILL BE GLAD TO FURNISH REFERENCES 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Compliments of 


Union Terminal Cold Storage Co.. Inc. Manhattan Refrigerating Company Kings County Refrigerating Company 
Offices: 525 West St., New York City 
Compliments 
of 




WM, A. DAUNT CO., Inc. 
DESIGNERS AND MANUFACTURERS OF 
ART STAINED & LEADED GLASS 
FOR 
CHURCHES - RESIDENCES - PUBLIC BUILDINGS 
STUDIO AND WORKS 61-65 48th AVE. LONG ISLAND CITY, N. Y. 
THE 





UNION METAL MFG. CO, 
CANTON, OHIO NEW YORK CHICAGO LOS ANGELES 
ORNAMENTAL LAMP STANDARDS For GROUNDS, STREETS, PARKS, Etc. 
Ref: STATE STREET LIGHTING SYSTEM, CHICAGO HOLLAND VEHICLE TUNNEL, N. Y. CITY STREET LIGHTING, CLEVELAND, OHIO STREET LIGHTING, INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA 
WM. A. DAUNT, Dist Mgr. 
110 EAST 42d STREET NEW YORK CITY 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
1915 

GKORGB N. SHUSTEK, associate editor of the Commomreal magazine, Xew York, who was a member of the faculty at Xotre Dame for several years as head of the department of English, has been engaged to take charge of two summer courses in English at Marquette university, a re­cent announcement from Marquette advises. 
1»16 

RALPH J. LATHKOP was recently transferred to Brooklyn as head of the life and accident departments of the Travelers Insurance Co.,there. He is still remembered prominentlly as a member of the football and baseball teams for the important period 1912 to 191G. He had begun the practice of law when war was declared and he enlisted, rising to the rank of captain. After the war he went to Jlilwaukee with the Travelers. In 1922 he was made manager of the Peoria branch, being transferred to Brooklyn from that office. 
1917 

Two prominent LL. D. men of '17 appeared on the campus recently in the interests of their campaigns for the presidency of these United States. The first to appear was Senator Jim Reed of Missouri. He was introduced to the students assembled in the gym, "Pat" Manion being the master of ceremonies in top form. Sen. Reed spoke on the history of the Constitution and cur­rent attempts to substitute statute law for moral 
JOHN HANCOCK SERIES • 
• • WIVES of • • BUSINESS MEN 

T
HE difference between office and household economy often causes as­tonishment and confusion to business men. Their wives mean well, but as for method—! 
The household budget is the answer. We have sent thousands of our budget sheets to wives who have attacked this problem. 
To business men who care about ordered and reasonable expenditure and saving—that is, the introduction of busi­ness methods into the home—we rec­ommend the John Hancock Home Budget Sheet. 
Your local John Hancock office will be glad to send you a copy, or one can be obtained by writing to 
INQUIRY BUREAU 
IJF E INSURANCECOMPANY^ 
o r •OSTOIt. MAUACHUSCnS 

197 CLARENDON STREET. BOSTON. MASS. ^ SIXTY-FIFTH YEAR OF BUSINESS — 
Frequent showings of Luxenberg Clothes are 
held in the cities listed below: Jacksonville Boston Pittsburgh Tampa Syracuse Washington New Orleans Chicago Willses-Barre Atlanta Bethlehem Troy Birmingham South Bend 
$37.50 Write for new style booklet and dates of exhibitions. 


CLOTHES 

37 UNION SQUARE. NEW YORK Between 16th and 17th Sts. 
teaching. He spoke here April 12 in connection with a South Bend appearance. The second candi­date was Sen. Jim Watson, a "native son," who spoke in AVashington Hall on April 25. 
1923 

OVEK OXE HUNDRED ARE OX THE WAY 
Friday- June First, afternoon and eTenin?, Registration in Alimini Office and assignment of rooms, 1923 men all in one liall, 
Friday night 7:00 o'Clock. Class Dinner la y Faculty Room in the new Dining Hall. 
Just another week and we will be all together in spirit if not in person, and so if you can make it. Come Back. 
MICHAEL KAXE Attorney at law. State Bldg., Springfield, Mass., sends regrets that he will not be back. Mike wrote to five of our class in Xew England but up to the first of May has not heard from them. Mike passes on the word that MIKE SEYFBIT is located at 407 Chestnut Street, Car­linville, HI., and is a practicing attorney. 
CHARLES MARTIX repeats to tell us that L.\WREXCE STRABLE and JERRY KAXDALL will be with him on their way to X. D. Charles says that ED DEGREE is afraid that he will be tied up at Reunion time. LAWREXCE STRABLE also wrote in himself to give us the news. 
HENRY L.\UERMAX sends in two letters, one from TOM LIEB and one from NEIL FLINN. Tom will be with us if he can get away from" 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
350 
Compliments 
of 


PhilJ.Doherty 
I4I2 Broadway 
New York City 
tlie University o£ Wisconsin in time. Tom 
•was manager of the Mid-West Relays the filth annual relay meet for high schools heia each year at Wisconsin. The relays this year broke all records for attendance and enthusiassm, Kell Flynn regrets that June is the busiest season in the contracting business and •ivill be unable to be back. Keil says that he received a post card from JOHX FOG.A.BTT, who is in Mexico. 
FRANIC KEXXEDT expects to be back and he says that WALTER KENJvBDY is also very anx­ious to get back but press o£ business may hold him back. FRED XBU is also in DES MOINES and is planning to get back, as is DAN FITZ­GIBBONS, FRANK, WALTER, FRED and DAN may all drive down together. FRANK also tells us that EDWARD D. KELLY who was with us as a Freshman in Badin would like to come. Well ED, there are over a hundred of us who would like to have you with us again. ED TSCHUDI writes a wonderful letter assuring us that he will be back. 
GEORGE 3IeHALE is no longer in Nebraska but is now in Houston, Texas, with the firm of Hirara. Salisbury, 1505 Post-Dispatch Building. George is engaged- in the general practice of architecture. He is afraid that the great distance will keep him away from the reunion. 

HAROLD HAYNES tells us that DAN FOLEY is located in Kansas City and •will be back. FRANK TYLER hopes to take his vacation early this year and join with us. Frank is now head of the Tyler Commission Company of Kansas City. GEORGE DAWSON is rooming with DAN FOLEY 
atid also expects to get back. Harold aiso passe.^ 
on the word that VINCE CAVANAUGH is teach­
ing at Bockhurst College in Kansas City. 
HOLLY GRINAGER, who will be back passes on the word that TOM LEE and PERCE WILCOX are busy trying to find somebody to drive them to South Bend around the last of May. Here IS hoping they succeed. CARL FISCHER hopes to be with us in June and JOHN BYRNE will be back for certain. Holly regrets that he has heard nothing from LINUS GLOTZ­BACH, but we will bet that Linus will be back >vith bells on. 
E. MERLIN ROLWING of SI2 North 11th Street, Plioenix, Arizona, says "I am too far away to be back in June, it seems at this writing; however can never tell. I might drive back this summer, and would be sure to make Commencement if 1 do." Merlin has this to say about one of the most popular men of our class "PIO MONTE­NEGRO, the last I heard of him was teaching in the high school in Trayaba, Luzon, P. I. Pio had the misfortune to be attacked one night by political enemies or their henchmen, who were disguised and who arrested him on a fake warrant. They tied him to a tree in the forest and cut oft his left ear with a bowie knife. The assault was severely condemned by the press and by Samuel Quezon, president of the Philippine Senate. This was two years ago. 
Lewis J. Murphy who is now located in South Bend is another active '23 man at the scene of action and ho also promises to offer tlie men from other towns the hospitality of South Bend: 
==> 
"Tailors to the Notre Dame Alumnus" 
Ready to Wear and Made to Measure 
McG rane & Murphy 
29 West 46th Street New York City 
Harry J. McGfane James T. Glaccum 

THE NOTRE DAME,ALUMNUS 
the larger districts have not had time as yet to send in their reports because of the large number of '23 men in their districts but it is evident now that we will not only- establish a new Notre Dame Reunion record but it looks like an all time record for Notre Dame Reunions. 
Miss Marion Jacobs, 3900 'Wilcox St., Chicago, recently wrote to the University that she had found a Notre Dame class pin of '23 in a Chicago store, with the initials R. J. N. Dick Nash was Informed, but if it wasn't his—the Editor hasn't heard—any other '23 man who had R. J. [or P.] 
N. engraved in his pin had better drop Miss Jacobs a note. 
Spealver f class pins—PAUL JACKSON, who is deputy prosecutor in South Bend, had burglars clean out his wardrobe some days ago, including his pin. Paul's watch-day was sleeping on a top-coat the burglars dropped when 3Ir. and Mrs. Jackson returned home. 
REYNOLDS JIEDART and his bride have re­turned after a honeymoon spent in Europe, and were visitors on tlie campus recently but the Editor missed them. They have furnished a home in St. Louis where Reynolds is associated with the Medart Company, 3500 De ICalb St. 
1024 The Editor was in receipt last month of a beau­tiful announcement of the ordination of RE'V. DONALD S. GALLAGHER, in Rome on March 
24. As announced some time ago Father Gallagher will be home during the summer, probably July or August. 
RAY BEADY, Brady & Acheson, announces the removal of the firm law offices from 319 'U'alker Bank Bldg. to 206 Keams Bldg-. Eay was re-elected president of the Intermountain Notre Dame Clab (formerly Utah) at the U. N. D. Night meeting, and is its guiding genius. 
AX, BIRJriNGHAM writes a very interesting letter from Boston, 1SC9 Beacon St. Al sends in some dope on the fellows he has met, "JOHN ROURKE, who marriedd Father Healy's sister, is the proud father of a baby girl. He is in the oil business and doing well. Rockne was a recent visitor at his house in Providence and I had the pleasure of having dinner with tliem. It seems good to see Rock. Met ED THODE in Boston last v/eek. He graduated from Georgetown law and is in governmbent service in Boston. JLARK ICREUTZER is assistant editor of the Pacific Shipper, and is living in San Francisco. PAT O'SULUVAN of Jfuscatine, Iowa, is practicing law in Chicago and doing well. Met JIIKE MURR-AY, '26, in Church one Sunday not so long ago in Boston. He is living in Vanderbilt Hall, Han-ard Medical School, Boston. BILL GONI^ET is in the tire business for himself in New Haven. Conn., and doing well. JOE DESMOND, '23, is with his father in the roofing business in Boston. . . . As regards myself, I am a salesman with the Kellj--Springfield Tire Co.,working out of the Boston office." 
1D23 BILL NEVILLE has passed the New Tork bar 
Walter J. Douglas 
Fifth Avenue Coach Co. New York City 

Louis P. Doyle 
937 Flatbush Ave. Brooklyn, N. Y. 

N. E. Franklin 

500 Fifth Ave. New York City 

James R. Meehan 

466 Lexington Ave. Room 838 New York City 
T. Paul McGannon 

36 West 44th Street New York City 

Rev. J. August Rath 

54 Pullis Ave. Middle Village, N. Y. 
Louis E. Wagner 

Chester Horn & Co. 37 Wall St. New York City 
exam according to an announcement from the 
Batavia papers. Bill had been reading his Black­
stone in the offices of Stedman & 'Waterman. 
DANIEL J. O'XEIL was the confidential guide 

and advisor of the Editor while in the Big City 
and kept him from riding indefinitely through 
the subway, etc., even martyring himself through 
said Editor's paper at the Convention. Dan is 
with the A. T. & T. and chaperones L.TXCH. 
BAETLET and occasionally TRATNOR, as the 
need arises. 
Tlie Editor had a real scare last month when 
it was reported that GEORGE LUDWIG had been 
hurt badly in an accident at the Grand Rapids 
Gas Plant. But Ludwig was down in the flesh to 
disprove the rumor while the Editor was away, but 
left a long story with HOLLAND, which has not 
been told. [Continued next month.] 
Has anybody seen or heard of SCALLAN7 
1926 

CHUCK GUINON is now living at 127A Hotel Sheridan, Minneapolis, Minn., representing the Minneapolis branch of the Grand Rapids Store Front Co. Chuck has met ROGER NOLAN who is working for the Chicago Pneumatic Tool Co., and JOHN BYRNE, who is in the garage busi­ness. 
FRED D.-V.^as is now Dr. Davis, and is associated with the British Osteopathic Association Clinic in London, according to word received from his Mother, Jlrs. Laura Davis. 123G Lincolnway "W., South Bend. 
i9s; 

Jlr. John A. Dailey, LL. B. '27, now a practi­cing lawyer at Burlington, Iowa, has been kind enough to donate to the law • library a copy of the new Code of Iowa. The College of Law is making an effort to obtain a copy of the statutes of each State in the Union, and Jack has made a good beginning. Let us hope that tlie interest which he has taken will prove contagious. 
FRANK HAGERBARTH JR. is now with the Harris Trust Co. in Chicago 
1928 

ED HAGERTT, who has just opened up a law-office in Toledo, was elected secretary of the N. 
D. Club of Toledo at its annual meeting April 16. 
=^ 
Four Flags Hotel 
NILES, MICHIGAN 
EUROPEAN 
Beautiful Dbtinctioe Unique 
CONVENIENT TRANSPORTATION 
ROOMS $2.00 TO $3.50 

Local Alumni Clubs 
NOTKE DAME CLUB OF AKKON, OHIO 
Prank Steel, '25, 543 Stratford Ave., President. 
John DettUng, '21, 437 E. Buchtel Ave., Secretary. 
THE NOTKE DAME CLUB OF ARKANSAS 
Rev. George F. X. Strassner, '14, Hope. President. Warren Baldwin, '13, 2424 Louisiana St., Little Rock, Secretary. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO 
Jay L. Lee. '12. 1509 Liberty Bank Building. President. 
Fred M. Pralatowski, Dupont-Rayon Co., 
Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CALUMET REGION 
H. S. Lower. '13, 506 'Washington St., Gary. President. 
'Wm. R. Dooley. '2C. X. I. Pub. SciTice Co.. H-immond. Secretary. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO 
Joseph J. Sullivan, '02. 160 N. La Salle St., President. Thomas C. Donovan, '24, Room 1215, 11 S. La Salle St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCIN'NA'n 
E. C. McHugh, '09. P. O. Box 429. President. 
L. V. DuBois, o. s. '15, Fredk. Schmitt Co.. Fifth and Main Sts.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND 
Charles A. Mooney Jr., '2G, 005-7 Guardian 
Bldg., President. 
Fred Joyce. '19. Asst. Jfgr. Allerton Club Sec'y. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTK.\L OHIO 
Raymond J. Eichenlaub. "15, Hoster Realty 
Bldg., Columbus, President. 
P. X. Finneran, 615 West Chapel St., Columbus, Secretary. 

NOTRE DA9IE CLUB OF THE CONNECHCUT VAtlEr 
William J. Granfleld, *13, 31 Elm St., Springfield. 
Mass.. President. James A. Curry. '14. 795 Asylum Ave., Hartford. 
Conn., Secretary. 

THE NOTRE D.4ME CLUB OF DAYTON 
Joseph B. Murphy, '11, 309-15 Mutual Home Bldg. President 
I. Farrell Johnson, '24, 49 Shaw Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER 

J. P. Logan. 3054 Marion St., President. 
Henry Schwalbe, Argonaut Hotel, Sec.-Treas. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT 

Joseph ,T. Collins. '11, 3220 Monterey, Pre.'*. 
Norbert A. Clancy, '25. Apt.109-120 Seward 
.\ve.. Secretary. 

NOTRE DA9IE CLUB OF DES MOINES 
John 'W. Newman. '9S-99 3007 Ingersoll Ave.. 
Pres. Earl F. 'W.alsh. Des Moines Cath. Col.. Secretary 
NOTRE DA3IE CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
Dr. .T. .-v. Flynn. El. '12. 1511 R. I. Ave.X. W.. 
•Washinton. President. 

William M. Galvin, '14, 52S 7th St. N. W. Washington. Secy.7 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WATNK 
Wm. P. Breen, '77, 913 Calhoun St., President. Clifford Ward, '22, 220 B. William St, Secretary. 
NOTRE DABtE CLUB OF GREEN BAT. WISCONSIN 
Robert E. Lynch. '03, President. 
John Diener. '09. Secretary. 








