The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
^ VOLUME 351^S*S5WUKIBEirB7^?777>i¥ 
Orientation Program was conducted 
A ~ Morau Saninatj I' OCTOBER iNpVEMBEIli!l957:^:f >• ffiJfcS
J for 1500 first-year men. 
Cblumlu Hal)  
Lauadry  
^^1  
NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS  • ^  ^VnAjtKtj^  Arclutecliuet\  

O  
Indoctrination lectures were given faculty and administrative officers.  '  • • : " •  •  i  *' 'i^" <# £LThe annual Misaoh was hdd in Sacred Heart Chur -Ji.  ^m  
1 -: i • <i*<«iF  James E. Armstrong, '25 Editor John N. Cackley, '37 Managing Editor  
John F. Laughlin, '48 Editi >rlal Assistant  



Color Movie 'Notre Dame' Proves Box Office Smash 
Film Center Swamped With Club, School And Television Bookings 
The slogan "Movies are better than ever" became a Hollj'wood common­place when television began to make terrifying inroads with the motion pic­ture audience. It seemed to assume reality as filmed presentations captured an ever-increasing share of television programing. But a real proof that movies are better, or at least more ef­fective, than ever is the e.\traordinar}' success of a half-hour color film en­titled, simply, "Notre Dame." 
The mowe was in production for tlie greater part of 1956. Its campus pre­miere was tied in with local premieres in more than fifty cities as alumni clubs obser\'ed the 34th annual Uni­versal Notre Dame Night in April. Shortly tliereafter it was made available for use by television stations and inter­ested organizations all over the country. 
"Notre Dame" is narrated by Joe Boland, '27, nationally known sports­caster, with an assist from Dr. Willam 
M. Burke, Director of the University's Office of Student Advisor. The film opens with an exciting football se­quence, interrupted at "halftime" by a colorful tour of Notre Dame. In sweep­ing scenes it depicts the intellectual, spiritual and social life of tlic University as seen in its classrooms, laboratories and libraries, its church, chapels and shrines, its residence halls, athletic fields and recreational centers, and as ex­emplified in the hundreds of students and faculty members shown. 
Produced by Owen Murphy Produc­tions, Inc., of New York City, "Notre Dame" was filmed entirely on campus under the personal supervision of Owen Murphy of tlie Class of 1915. It is in Eastman color, the print is by Techni­color Corp. of Los Angeles, and it fea­tures the music of the Notre Dame Band and Glee Club and the Morcau Seminar)' Choir. 
Immediately after its release tlie film was lauded by motion picture trade publications as truly portraying the ex­citement, beauty and academic serious­ness of the University of Notre Dame. 
But tlie most striking tiling about the film is the enlliusiasm of its recep­tion by alumni clubs, schools, civic and scn'ice organizations, corporations, "sub­way alumni" and televiewers across die nation. By early September it had been viewed by more than sixty alumni clubs and dozens of other oi^anizations with a total attendance estimated at some­where between ten and twenty thou­sand alumni and friends. This is re­markable if one considers that the typi­cal audience consists of less than a hundred viewers. 
The T\ ' figures are even more strik­ing. By tlie first week in September the movie had been over more than fifty television stations in 43 cities. The television audience has been conserv­atively estimated at upwards of three million people. Another group of sta­tions has been invited to televise the picture this fall, and. special eve-of­game telecasts are scheduled in many cities where the Notre Dame football team will appear. 
There has been a great demand for showings among Holy Name, NCCM, CYO and other Catholic action groups, as well as Parent-Teachers, educators' and Boy Scout meetings. Some corpo­rations have shown it to all executives or sales personnel, while small com­munities have had multi-group screen­ings in civic auditoriums. The Lions and odicr service clubs have been cn­tliusiastic. 
High schools and prep schools, orig­inally considered only as a by-product of club showings, are emerging as a major market for the film, which may be instrumental in recruiting thousands of future Notre Dame students. Many alumni clubs now consider the film a "must" for all prospective freshmen. 
Since there are permanent prints of the movie in most major city clubs in the U. S., plus several in constant de­mand at the Foundation Office, "Notre Dame" may some day rank as an aca­demic "Gone With the Wind.". 

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION I BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Officers 
JOSEPH I. O'NEILL, JR., '36 
Honorary President 
J. PATRICK CA.NNY, '28 President PATRICK J. FISHER, '36 
Club Vice-President 
JoH.v W. BRENNAN, '27 
Class Vice-President' 
JOSEPH E. WHALEN, '29 
Fund Vice-President JAJIES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary 
Directors to 1958 
JOHN ^y. BRENNAN, '27 American Blower Corp., Detroit 32, Mich. 
J. PATRICK CANNY, '28 14700 Clifton Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio PATRICK J. FISHER, '36 605 E. 42nd St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
JOSEPH E. WKALEN, '29 Hotel Ft. Des Moines, Des Moines, Iowa 
Directors to 1939 ' 
OSCAR JOH.V DORWIN, '17 Texas Company 135 E. 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y. 
EDMOND R. HAGCAR, '38 Haggar Company 6113 Lcmmon Avenue, Dallas, Texas 
EUGENE M . KE.VNEDY, '22 174 South Mansfield -Avenue Los Angeles 36, Calif. 
FR,\NCIS L. LAYDEN, '36 701 College Highway, Evansvillc, Ind. 
Directors to 1960 
LEO J. VOGEL, '17 Union Trust Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
R,\Y.MOND W. DURST, '26 
840 Lathrop Ave., River Forest, 111. 
JULES K. DE L.\ VERGNE, '33 413 Pere Marquette Bldg. New Orleans, Louisiana 
WILLIAM E. COTTER, JR., '41 114 Laurie St., Duluth 3, Minn. 

Chairmen of the 1957 Committees 
J. PATRICK CANNY Executive PATRICK J. FISHER Club Activities JOHN W. BRENNAN Class Activities JOSEPH E. WHALEN 
Foundation, Alumni Fund and Gifts 
FRIV.NCIS L . LAYDE.V 
Preparatory School Relation.' 
JoH.v W. BRENNAN '­
Job Counseling and Placement Osa\R JOHN DORWIN Inter-Alumni Affairs JOSEPH E. WHALE.N 
Prestige and Public Relations 
EUGENE M . KENNEDY 
Religion and Citizenship 
Er<Mo.vD R. HAGGAR AND 
EUGENE M . KENNEDY ..,„„.A'omina(tonr FRANCIS L. LAMjEN..._Btirfgei and Finance PATRICK J. FISHER Resolutions j 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post OIHce, Notre Dame, Ind. under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 

FASHION NOTE 

Beginning this semester all students eating in campus dining halls will be required by the University to wear 




6,000 Students Begin 
dtcss shirts, neckties and coats at eve­

Fall Term Classes 
Sermon Preached by Father Hesburgh At Formal Opening of School; Orientation For Freshmen During Six-Day PeHod 
More than 6,000 students are en­

. rolled in Notre Dame's undeigraduate Imd graduate courses during the Fall semester. The University began its 116th academic year with a Solemn High Mass in Sacred Heart Church, attended by the student body and fac­ulty. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president, preached the sermon at the formal opening. Two new stu­dent residences, Keenan and Stanford Halls, and a new dining hall are the latest campus facilities available to un­dergraduates. These buildings mark the completion of a $4,000,000 expan­sion program begun last year. The two dorms will house a total of 600 stu­dents while the dining hall will serve approximately 2,000 students. 
Approximately 1,500 freshmen un­derwent an intensive orientation pro­gram including a batter)' of tests and a spiritual retreat or mission prior to the registration for classes. 
A new graduate program in gnoto­biotics is being offered this Fall for the fii-st time at Notre Dame's Lobund Institute. Prof. Thomas Stritch has been named head of the newly created 
' Department of Communication Arts. The 1957-58 school term will mark the 75th anniversary of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal, the 90th birthday of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, the 10th anniversaiy of the Notre Dame Foundation, and the 70th year 
t, that the University has participated in intercollegiate football. 
In his sermon to the students and faculty. Father Hesburgh said that man must not allow himself to be "seduced by the material benefits of science to ues that he cherished long before the advent of modem science and its ac­companying technolog)'." 
A man that is well-fed, well-clothed and well-housed can be ignorant, prejudiced and immoral, too," the No­tre Dame president pointed out. "A healthy man can be as unjust as an unhealthy man. A long life is not nec­essarily good or fruitful. Vastly ex­panded communications devices do not guarantee that much worthwhile is be­ing communicated, and a world brought close together is not necessar­ily a world at peace. Simplified house­keeping does not guarantee happy mar­riages; easily accessible amusement cannot banish the boredom of a point­
ning meals and at all Sunday meals. The announcement of this ruling coin­cided with similar announcements in several Ivy League schools. The regu­lation has been contemplated for some time, according to Rev. Leonard A. Collins, C.S.C., Dean of Students, but was made possible only recently by the construction of additional dining hall facilities. 
less life; and vitamins are no substi­tute for virtues," he said. Father Hesburgh, a member of the 
•National Science Board, stressed the difficulty of the University's task "in a world that is essentially ecularistic and scientifically oriented in its for­vrard march." 
Recently appointed Vatican City delegate to the new International Atomic Energy Agency, Father Hes­burgh deplored the lack of communi­cation among specialists in the various arts and sciences. He lamented that theologians and physicists, for example, "have not been on speaking terms for centuries — so much so that they no longer speak the same language." He cited evidence, however, that the cli­mate has how begun to change — and on both sides. "The time is ripe," he urged, "to take up a fruitful conversa­tion left aside centuries ago." 
the exclusion of the deep spiritual val­Father Norton addresses orientation group. 
2. Stir up a little thinking storm in your Club. If the majority are not too receptive, the minoritj'can still function, 


CdUo^UcU Qo4n4fie4€ti '°'"^°"' 
Alumni Secretary and it won't be long before national 
We have outgrown the corduroy mind and tlie hob-nailed tongue. 
I hope you will read beyond this first 
sentence, be­
cause what I 
have to say in 
this issue is es­
sentially com­
plimentary t o 
every Notre 
Dame alumnus. 
Only the 
minority of 
James £. Armstrong 
you, at this writing, remember the days when it was sartorially correct to wear corduroy pants that often could stand alone, and to suppress, in the exchange of stu­dent opinions, any indication of being affected by the academic environment was the tradition. 
Those of us who do remember, also remember that from these rough ex­teriors were ultimately extracted hearts of gold and minds of precious mettle. 
As the years have passed, there has been a surface improvement in the appearance of Notre Dame students. Possibly the armed forces wore out the myth that Alger had created — tliat rags were a means to riches. Possibly unsung sergeants, demanding shine and polish and creases, made a contribu­tion. Perhaps the maturing of personal and social customs outmoded the old cult that virility was in inverse ratio to personal appearance. 
My hoped for point in this little ap­peal is that while the surface has changed, we still have among Notre Dame men the lingering tradition that a confession of serious thought, or an expression of the application of a trained mind to a problem, somehow removes the guilty party from the fra­temit)' of Notre Dame men. 
Here in the Alumni Office, where the paths of opinion from many sources cross, we hear from many sides that alumni do not reflect the purpose of higher education in training scholars. We hear that the investment of society in higher education has not been re­paid by the leadership the investors may rightly anticipate. 
We hear that alumni are still pre­occupied with the social and recrea­tiohaJ-'r.aspects of alumni life — the football games, die picnics, tlie dances, the smokers. 
We are aware of the published charges of a lack of Catholic intel­lectual leadership in particular, and the readiness of many administrators and facultj' members to subscribe to the charges. 
No — this is not the prelude to a new movement, or the preliminary pitch for die Great Books. 
I just have a feeling that Notre Dame alumni are no less educated, no less intellectually curious, no less pro­fessionally competent, than the corres­ponding groups of alumni from other colleges and universities. 
I know of course that the chaiges levelled above are general for all alumni, and not just for Notre Dame men. 
But the added feeling that I have, from the knowledge of so many case histories of competence, is that Notre Dame men can, and should, refute a lot of these generalities. 
This is where the old tradition seems to me to be still lingering under the new surface. 
Notre Dame men are reluctant to participate in intellectual groups. They hesitate to assume leadership in intel­lectual or cultural activities. They are most damagingly reluctant to admit personal interests or accomplishments in these fields. 
I think this stems from the older era when there was an assumed stigma attaching to the reflection of a higher education in its most important chan­nels — a feeling that somehow this great and deliberate system of colleges and universities in our democracy was denied by e\'idence of success, — that the college man tended to create a caste. 
But I must confess that when I am faced \A\h the charges, I can only bristle like a defense attorney without evidence, and fall back on speculation and appeals to the jur)' that sometimes are unconvincing. 
Three things would help Notre Dame greatly in pointing with pride to an alumni group that I am convinced justifies it: 
1. Get that lamp of learning out from under any present bushels. 
stimulus is going to make this a major­ity trend. 
3. Start reacting a little bit to the experiments that will be increasingly offered to you. A few ideas have been started at Reunion time. A few more will be continued. The Clubs have been asked to initiate ideas locally. And many fine intellectual and cultural programs outside the Notre Dame sphere of influence are.seeking minds trained and privileged as yours are. 
People don't txpect athletes to re­main in full activity very far beyond their campus life; your golf and tennis and swimming may reach a fairly early period of modification; your dancing and social life may call for more careful budgeting after a few years; but your competitive values in the intellectual and cultural areas grow \vith the years, and can sustain you long after exercise and diet have still slowed down every­thing else. 
Keep thinking. —Jim. Armstrong 


LT. COL MERKLE, '39 ASSIGNED TO AFROTC 
The appointment of Lt. Colonel Matthew H. Merkle, '39, as Command­ing officer of Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC unit and as professor of air science and tac­tics has been an­nounced by Air Force Head­quarters and the Rev. Theodore 

M. H e s burgh, C.S.C., univer­sity president. ^ 
it. Col. Merkle Col. Merkle has been serving as a logistics officer at Headquarters of the U. S. Air Forces in Europe, Wiesbaden, Ger­many. He holds the rating of senior pilot in the Air Force and overseas tours of duty include New Guinea, the Philippines and Hawaii from 1944 to 1947 and Germany for the past three years. Col. Merkle is married to the former Louise M. Gerwels of Tacoma. Thev have two sons and two daughters. 

{Ed. Note: This is the first of a series featuring the Notre Dame fac­ulty. Alumni will have an opportunity 
r of "meeting" the Beans, Department Heads and members of each Depart­ment as the series progresses.) 
REV. CHARLES E. SHEEDY, C.S.C. 
Dean of the College of Arts and Letters 

Father Sheedy was appointed dean of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame on June 27, 1952. Fonnerly he had served as head of the Department of Reli^on at the University since 1950. 
Bom in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 

Father Sheedy entered the novitiate of the Congrega­tion of Holy cross on Febru­ary 2, 1937, and was ordained to the priesthood in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, on June 24, 1942 by the 
Most Rev. John F. Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne. 
Previously he had received his Bachelor of Arts degree at Notre Dame in 1933 and three years later an LL.B degree from the University of Pitts­burgh. He studied at Holy Cross Col­lege and the Catholic University of America, receiving his Licentiate in Sacred Theology in 1945 and his doc­torate a year later. 
Father Sheedy's published works in­clude Eucharistic Controversy of the Eleventh Century, 1947; The Christian Virtues, 1950, a textbook used in the teaching of courses in Catholic Morals, and several articles. 
In 1954, as dean of Arts and Letters, Father Sheedy presided over the first major curriculum change the college had seen in more than thirty years. This revision of the liberal arts pro­gram evolved in part from recommen­dations in The Curriculum of a Cath­olic Liberal College, the report of a self-study committee made possible by a grant from the Ford Foundation's Fund for the Advancement of Educa­tion. The new liberal arts curriculum calls for a simultaneous compression and intensification of basic studies and a close collaboration between instruc­tors of varying specialties in dealing with the students' problems. 
Father Sheedy is well known to post­war alumni as a dedicated golfer, a genial prefect of Sorin and rector of Dillon and Farley Halls. 



FACULTY 
DR. JAMES W. CULUTON 
Dean of the College of Commerce 
Appointed dean on October 11, 1955, Dr. Culliton succeeded James E. McCarthy, who was designated dean emeritus in charge of the college's development program. 
As head of Notre Dame's largest undergraduate college Dr. Culliton di­rects the academic work of more than 1,500 students and coordinates the teaching and research of thirty faculty members. Under his general super­vision are the departments of Account­ing, Business Administration, Finance and Marketing as well as the Program for Administrators. 
A former faculty member (1937-41, 
1944-51) at Harvard University, where 
- he received his m a s t e Fs and doctor's degrees. Dean Culliton joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1951 as a visit­ing professor and the follow­ing year was in­
strumental in founding the Program for Administrators, of which he was the first director. The new program, while providing a liberal education, stresses the development of administrative skills and the talent for human relations in the business executive. 
Dr. Culliton was bom in Buffalo, 
N. Y., and was graduated from Cani­sius College in 1932. He studied for ad­vanced degrees and did research at the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration. Receiving his doctor­ate in 1941, he served for a year as head of the department of management at Boston College. From 1942 to 1944 he was executive director of the Post War Readjustment Committee of Mas­sachusetts. For the next seven years he was an associate professor on the Har­vard faculty and an associate editor of the Harvard Business Review. 
Author of several publications, in­cluding Writing Business Cases, The Management of Marketing Costs, The Use and Disposition of Ships and Ship­yards at the End of World War II and Make or Buy, Dean Culliton has also written manv articles. 


 PROFILES 
DR. KARL E. SCHOENHERR Dean of the College of Ermineering 

A native of Karlsruhe, Germany, Dr. Schoenherr came to Notre Dame as dean of Engineering in 1945 after twenty-three years of service as a naval architect and marine engineer. 
Dr. Schoenherr was bom December 29, 1893, and educated in German gymnasia. He went to sea at fifteen and sailed for nine years in steamers along the Atlantic coast and Gulf of Mexico. At the end of World War I he entered the United States and se­cured his citizenship in 1921. 
From 1918 to 1922 Dr. Schoenherr attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, receiving a Bachelor of Science degree in Naval Architecture. During the following eight years he pursued post-graduate studies at the 
U. S. Bureau of Standards, George Washington University and Johns Hop­kins University. He received a Master of Arts degree in Physics from George Washington in 1930 and a Doctor of Engineering degree from Johns Hop­kins in 1932. 
In the service of the U. S. Navy at the David Taylor Model Basin, now at Carderock, Maryland, Dr. Schoen­herr rose rapidly from junior engineer through various grades to the position of principal na­val architect. He became chief of the Hydro-Me­chanics Division at the model basin in 1942 and was award­ed the Distin­guished Civilian 
Ser\'ice Medal for his work there dur­ing Worid War II. 
A propeller designed by Dr. Schoen­herr in 1951 was chosen to power the largest tank ship ever constructed at that date. He is the author of several papers and co-author of a book on naval engineering principles. At Notre Dame he directed the College of Engi­neering while it underwent a great ex­pansion. It was under his direction that the first night courses in engineer­ing were offered in 1953. In 1955 he received a citation from the An^rican Society of Mechanical Enginelrs. 
mm^ 
"&.: 
i^'-";: 


^WSij^;^
/xlC^e' 
250 in Summer Commencement 
The University awarded approximately two hundred graduate degrees and fifty undergraduate diplomas at its summer commencement exercises in the University Drill Hall, August 6. 
Prof. Walter M. Langford, head of the depart­ment of modem languages, delivered the com­mencement address. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., Notre Dame executive vice president, pre­sided at the ceremonies and conferred the degiees. Music for the convocation was provided by the University Summer Orchestra conducted by Prof. Charles Biondo. 
The majority of the students receiving ad­vanced degrees were nuns, most of whom have studied at Notre Dame during five summer sessions. Virtually all the nuns are teachers in Catholic colleges, high schools and elementary' schools throughout the countr)'. 
Prof. Langford has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1931. A specialist in Spanish and Portuguese, he was educated at Notre Dame and at the National University of Mexico. He is a member of the Modem Language Association and is a former Indiana chapter president of the American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese. 
Father Collins Named Dean of Students 
Rev. A. Leonard Collins, C.S.C., has been appointed prefect of discipline at Notre Dame, according to an announcement by Rev. Theodore 
M. Herburgh, C-S.C, and the title of the office has been changed to "dean of students." 
Father Collins succeeds the Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, C.S.C., who recently was appointed to the Provincial Council of the Holy Cross Fath­ers Indiana Province. Rev. AVilliam McAulifTe, C.S.C., had been ser\'ing as the acting disciplinar)' officer for several months. 
During the 1956-57 school year Father Collins was rector of Morrissey Hall. He was superior of Moreau Seminar)' from 1946 to 1949 and head­ed Holy Cross Seminar)' from 1949 to 1952. He has also ser\'ed as chaplain at St. Edward High School, Lakewood, Ohio, and as director of Andre House at Notre Dame. For several years he has been director of the annual summer Institute of Spirituality at Notre Dame. 
A native of Revere, Mass., Father Collins entered the novitiate of the Holy Cross Fathers in 1934 and was graduated from Notre Dame in 1938. He was ordained to the priesthood by the late Archbishop Noll of Fort ^Vayne on June 24. 1942. 
NSF, AEC Award Grants to Faculty 
Grants from the National Science Foundation and the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission totaling $8,061 have been awarded to four Notre Dame faculty members, according to an announcement by F. X. Bradley, Jr., assistant dean for research of the Graduate School. 
Rev. Eman McMuUin, a specialist in the phi­losophy of science, has.received a $3,400 NSF grant to carry on studies on "The Implications of the Quantum Principle of Uncertainty," principally at Yale University. An Irish priest. Father McMullin began teaching at Notre Dame in 1954. He holds degrees from Ma)'nooth College in Ireland and a doctorate from the University of Louvain in Belgium. 
A grant of $3,000 has been awarded to Dr. Guiseppe Parravano, associate professor of chem­ical engineering, in support of his research on "Zone Melting Techniques in Fractional Crj'stal­lization." Prior to joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1955 Professor Parravano served for seven years as a research associate at Princeton University. He holds doctorates in chemistrj' and engineering from Rome University, Italy. 
A third NSF grant of $1,000 will support re­search on "Vapor Phase Chromatography" under the direction of Dr. G. F. D'Alelio, head of Notre Dame's chemistry department. Professor D'Alelio, an authority in the field of pol)'mer chemistr)', formerly was vice president and manager of re­search for Koppers Co., Inc., Pittsburgh. 
Dr. James P. Kohn, assistant professor of chem­ical engineering, attended the Summer Nuclear Engineering Institute at Iowa State University, Ames, on a grant of $661 provided by the Atomic Energ)' Commission. A specialist in phase equi­librium, he holds degrees from Notre Dame, the University of Michigan and tlie University of Kansas. 
Graduate Receives Fullbright Award 
John Louis Heineman, a 1957 Notre Dame graduate, has been awarded a Fulbright grant for graduate study abroad during the 1957-58 school year, according to Rev. Paul E. Beichncr, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School. 
Heineman is the son of Mr. and Mi-s. George Heineman, 1224 Central Ave., Connersville, Ind. He will study German histor)' at the Free Univer­sity of Berlin. He is the sixth Notre Dame student to receive a Fulbright award in recent weeks. 
Heineman comes from a prominent Notre Dame family, counting his grandfather, father and uncle among N. D. Alumni. His grandfather. 
ti 

Jolin L. Heineman, '88, founded the Connersville Scholarship here in 1926. 
Previously announced Notre Dame Fulbright grant recipients for 1957-58 include William Slavick, Shelby Center, Tenn.; Douglas Cole, Forest Hills, N. Y.; Martin B. Tiemey, Fort Wayne. Ind.: Bernard G. Browne, Tuckahoe, 
N. Y.r'and Paul N. Clemens, Washington, D. C. 
Theologian Scores Catholic Scholarship 
American Catholics have not produced their share of intellectuals because of their "obsession with the apologetic defense of Catholic positions," according to Rev. Gustave Weigel, S.J., professor of ccclesiology at AVoodstock College, Woodstock, Maryland. 
Due to this "defense mentality," the Jesuit scholar contends, philosophy and the disciplines are often used at Catholic schools "not as op­portunities for the calm contemplation of truth but rather as occasions to defend theological orthodoxy." As a result, he argues, "a debating defender of Catholic causes is produced rather than a novice in scholarship." 
Father Weigel has expressed his views in an article entitled "American Catholic Intellectual-ism—^A Theologian's Reflections" in a recent issue of Notre Dame's REVIEW OF POLITICS. A faculty member at AVoodstock since 1952, Father AVeigel served as dean of the theology faculty at the Catholic University of Chile from 1942 to 1948. 
Christian Brothers 'House of Studies' 
The Brothers of the Christian Schools have established a graduate house of studies at Notre Dame, it was announced jointly by Brother I. Philip, F.S.C., provincial of their St. Louis prownce, and Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School. 
The project is a joint undertaking of the Christian Brothers' six provinces in the United States. Brothers from this country and Canada who are assigned to Notre Dame for graduate study will reside at Andre House, a large home situated on the campus near the stadium. 
Religious Play Written by Nun 
A cloistered nun is the author of "La Madre," a play presented by summer drama students at Notre Dame. 
Sister Mar>' Francis, P.C., of Our Lady of Guadalupe Monaster)', Roswell, New Mexico, has written the religious drama which depicts the climactic years in the life of St. Teresa of Avila. Perhaps best known for her book, A Right to be Merry, Sister Marj' Francis also wrote "Domitille," a play produced by Notre Dame's speech depart­ment during the 1955 summer session. 
"La Madre" is the seventh religious play to be produced at Notre Dame during the past five years. Natalie E. White, author of three of the previous productions, directed a cast made up predominantly of nims studying for advanced degrees in drama at the University. 
Leonard Sommer, acting head of the depart­ment of speech, was the producer of "La Madre" and several other theatrical events presented at Notre Dame in the summer. 

Father Hughes Made Monsignor 
Rev. Philip Hughes, the noted English historian of the Church and professor of history at Notre Dame, has been elevated by Pope Pius XII to the rank of domestic prelate with the title of Right Reverend Monsignor. 
Monsignor Hughes received word of his ap­pointment from the Most Rev. George A. Beck, Bishop of the Diocese of Salford in England, of which he is a member. 
An authority on the history of the Church and the English Reformation, Monsignor Hughes joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1955. He currently is writing the fourth volume of his church history' series dealing with the period "From Luther to Jansenius." He received an honorary Doctor of Literature degree from Villanova Uni­versity, June 3rd. 

C. S. C. Brothers Staff African School 
of Holy Cross-will leave this fall for West Africa to staff St. John's Secondary School, Sekondi, Ghana. Brother Donatus Schmitz, C.S.C., Pro­vincial of the Brothers Midwest Province, has named Brother Rex Hennel, C.S.C., Assistant Headmaster, Notre Dame International School, Rome, Italy, as superior of the newly acquired mission in Ghana. Brother Rex will be assisted by Brother Eduardo Michalik, C.S.C., St. Edward High School. Cleveland (Lakewood), Ohio, and Brother Donald Allen, C.S.C, St. Gregory's High School, Dacca, East Pakistan. 
The Holy Cross Brothers, who work on four continents and in ten nations, are enteiing the Mission Field of the newly established nation of Ghana at the invitation of the Most Rev. William 
T. Porter, S.M.A., Archbishop of Cape Coast. 
Seminar Probes Intergroup Relations 
A three week Seminar in Intergroup Relations was held at Notre Dame during the summer con­ducted by Dr. Gordon AV. Lovejoy, national pro­gram consultant of the NCCJ and Dr. John J. Kane, head of the Notre Dame sociology depart­ment. 
Approximately twenty-five priests^ Sistecs, lay teachers and persons engaged in social work par­ticipated in the sessions which were sponsored by the University in cooperation with the National Conference of Christians and Jews. 
The seminar anal)'zed contemporarj-racial, etlmic and religious relationships in the United States and considered what has been accomplished in recent years to improve these relationships. Special emphasis was given to the techniques of teaching good intergroup relations in the schools. 
CFM Convenes on Campus 
More than 500 married couples and 200 priest-chaplains attended the national convention of the Christian Family Movement here August 23-25. 
Auxiliary Bishop Leo R. Smith of Buffalo headed the list of speakers who addressed the three-day sessions. The New York prelate spoke on August 24th at the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes following a candlelight procession of CFM mem­bers to the campus shrine. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November, 1957 
Bar President to Speak 
Mr. Charles S. Rh)-ne, President of the American Bar .'\ssociation, will be die featured speaker at the Law Honor Banquet next spring. Mr. Rhj-ne is the youngest man ever to head the Amer­ican Bar Association. The Law Honor Banquet, held each year under the aus­pices of the Student Law Association, ser\'es the dual purpose of saying bon voyage to the members of the graduat­ing class and recognizing the achieve­ments of the School's student leaders. At the Law Honor Banquet held last spring, the featured speaker was Mr. Justice Reed of tlie Supreme Court of the United States. 
Notre Dame Leads 
Thomas S. Calder, who received his 
LL.B. last June, placed first on the recent Ohio Bar Examination. Calder is serving a one-year appointment as law clerk for Judge Potter Stewart of the United Slates Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. 
Vemon O. Teofan, who was gradu­ated \\'ith Calder, placed second on die recent Texas Bar Examination. Teofan is now serving a tour of duty in the United States Air Force. He is Assist­ant Staff Judge Advocate of Elington Air Force Base in Texas. 
New Judges 
Two graduates of the Notre Dame Law School have been appointed to the federal bench. Honorable Clifford O'SuUivan, L'20, recently entered upon his duties as a member of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. Judge O'SuUi­yan formerly practiced law in Port Huron as a member of the finn of ^Valsh, O'SuUivan, Stommel & Sharp. 

Honorable Robert A. Grant, L'30, was sworn in as a member of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana on Sep­tember 24. Judge Grant formerly practiced law in South Bend as a mem­ber of the firm of Voor, Jackson, Grant & McMichael. 
Honors for Wagner 
Professor \V. J. AVagner's recently completed book, entitled The Federal States and Their Judiciary, has been accepted for publication by Mouton & Company of The Hague. Professor AVagner has been invited to read a paper at the annual meeting of the Association of American Law Schools in December on the use of compara­tive-law materials in the teaching of torts. 
New Faculty Member 

Assistant Professor Edward J. Mur­phy, recently appointed to the Law Faculty, assumed his duties on August L Professor Murphy received a B.S. from the University' of Illinois in 1949. In 1951 he was awarded an LL.B. by the University of Illinois College of Law. He served as a member of the board of student editors of the Uni­versity of Illinois Law Forum for three years, during two of which he was one of its officers. He was the ^vinner of die moot court competition at Illinois in 1950, and ser\'ed as president of the Junior Bar Association there. Upon being admitted to the Illinois bar in 1951, Professor Murphy became asso­ciated with the firm of Graham & Graham in Springfield. He practiced with that firm until 1954 when he be­came law clerk to Justice Harrj' B. Hershey of the Supreme Court of Illi­nois, a position he held at the time of appointment to the Notre Dame fac­ulty. Professor Murphy will serve as assistant to the Dean and will have primary responsibility for placement and for recruitment in secular uni­versities. 
Natural Law Forum 

Professor Joseph P. Witherspoon of the University of Texas School of Law has been appointed an associate editor of the Natural Law Forum, published aimually under the auspices of the Notre Dame Law School. Professor Arthur L. Goodhart, Editor of the Law Quarterly Review, the leading English legal periodical, has accepted appoint­ment as an advisorj' editor. 
The Editorial Board of the Forum has been meeting twice yearly, each fall and spring. The meeting last spring was held at Boston College Law School on invitation of its dean. Rev. Robert 
F. Drinan, S.J. A cordial invitation to hold the next meeting at tlie Yale Law School has been accepted and the meeting will be held there early in October. 
Law Scholarships Honor Brennan 

The creation of three Notre Dame Law School scholarships honoring Su­preme Court Justice William J. Bren­nan has been announced by Dean Jo­seph O'Meara. The Brennan scholar­ships have been established jointly by . the Universitj' and The Notre. Dame Law Association. 
The first two recipients of the Bren­nan scholarships are Roy F. Bamitt, Jr., Jersey City, N. J., and Lawrence 
J. Bradley, Albany, N. Y. The Brennan scholarships, valued at nearly $5,000 each, provide full tuition ,­plus a cash award of $750 annually for three years. Candidates must be graduates of an American Catholic college or imiversity and must be nominated for tlie honor by their dean or pre-law adviser. They also must rank in the top 10 per cent of their 
class and have a minimum score of 600 on the Law School Admission Test. 
Bamitt has been an instructor at Regis High School, New York Citj-, during the past year. He majored in English literature and was graduated :. from St. Peter's College, Jersey City, in ••• 1954. He received a Fulbright grant and studied seventeenth centurj' litera­ture and French phonetics at the Uni­versity' of Paris the following year. As an undergraduate, Bamitt was active in debating, dramatics and writing for ­school publications. j 
Bradley was graduated from Siena College, Loudonville, N. Y., last June, i A history major, he was a member of the varsit)' debating team and has par­ticipated in several other extra-curricu­lar activities including dramatics. i begins about 7:30 a.m. when he arrives at his Georgetown Hospital office. He 



Dr Hufnagel, '37 Graduate, 
usually spends mornings in the operat­

Famed as Heart Surgeon 
Artificial Valve Pioneer leads Busy Life 
At 40, when most physicians are struggling to build a reputation. Dr. Charles A. Hufnagel, '37, is inter­nationally known as a top heart sur­geon. From all over the world men, women and children have come to Georgetown Hospital, AVashington, 
D. C, for his operations. 
Dr. Hufnagel, a medium-sized, quiet man with a string of medical school and hospital titles after his name, 
! originated the technique for inserting a plastic valve into a damaged arter)'. 

Alumnus Joins Staff 

John F. Laughlin, '48, South Bend, Indiana, has been appointed Editorial Assistant in the Notre Dame Alumni 
. _ office effective August 15. He has had exten­sive and varied experience as editor of the Record (local Democrat weekly), mem­ber of the 
John F. Laughlin Sout h Bend 

Tribune news staff and editor of a union publication for the Bendix Avia­tion Corporation. John served as pub­licity and public relations chairman for the first St. Joseph County Industrial Exposition in 1954 and has been active on the United Fund Public Informa­tion Committee for St. Joseph County during the past three years. 
During AVorld War II, he was sta­tioned at Great Lakes, and in the V-12 program at Bucknell University and the University of Pennsylvania. John graduated in 1948, cum laude, with an A.B. degree in Journalism. His studies were continued at Notre Dame during 1950, in the Department of English. John is married to the former Miss Dorothy Koches, of South Bend, and they are the parents of four chil­dren, Thomas, Maureen, Sheila and The valve, which opens and shuts by means of a plastic ball, lets blood flow into and out of the heart as it does through a nonnal arter>'. After design­ing the valve and perfecting the opera­tion on dogs. Dr. Hufnagel first per­formed the valve surgery on a himian in 1952. Since then, about 150 per­sons have had the treatment, with Dr. Hufnagel performing the operation in most cases. The majority of them, who would otherwise have died or lived short, semi-invalid lives, have been restored to healdi. 
A yoimg woman in Germany lives on with a plastic valve in her chest, thanks to Dr. Hufnagel. An Eg)'ptian woman came to Georgetown in 1955 for the same operation and returned home to Uve a normal life. 
An average day for Dr. Hufnagel ing room, performing delicate heart, lung or chest surgery. Students, resi­dent doctors and visiting foreign sur­geons are often on hand to watch him work. In the afternoons Dr. Hufnagel checks pre- and post-operative patients, lectures at Georgetown University Medical School—he is professor of surgical research and associate professor of surgery—and works in his labora­tory, a small building on the Medical School grounds. There Dr. Hufnagel, with dogs as his patients, perfects new surgical techniques. 

Dr. Hufnagel's late afternoons and evenings are usually taken up by con­sultations with other physicians—he is a consultant to the National Naval Medical Center at Bethesda, Mount Alto Veterans Hospital and the Na­tional Institutes of Health. Besides his Georgetown work, he sometimes oper­ates at Providence, District General and Emergency Hospitals. 
Kentucky-bom, Dr. Hufnagel was educated at both Notre Dame and Harvard Medical School. He practiced privately in Indiana for a time, then i-etumed to Harvard in 1948 as an in­
(Continued on page 15.) 

Patricia. Dr. Charles Hufnagel, '37, and family. 
Class Contributions, Ending the Third Quarter of 1957 
Suiijhir of 

Ci'u.ii Contrihulitf 
1900 and before 9 
1901 2 1902 /. 5 1903 5 1904 5 1905 7 1906 7 1907 3 1908 G 1909 7 1910 fi 1911 15 1912 8 1913 16 1914 _... 19 1915 20 191G 16 1917 29 1918 26 1919 12 1920 18 1921 22 1922 45 1923 64 1924 43 1925 80 1926 68 1927 104 1928 101 1929 104 1930 105 1931 129 1932 129 1933 118 
1934 , 116 1935 130 1936 95 1937 104 1938 121 1939 127 1940 156 1941 151 1942 145 1943 138 1944 146 1945 85 1946 57 1947 140 1948 242 1949 362 1950 311 1951 243 1952 276 1953 291 1954 266 1955 243 1956 284 1957 81 Undergraduates 3 
Hon. .'Munini 2 
.-Munini Corporations 32 Gifts in Kind 3 Notre Daiiic Clubs 32 Totals 5737 
Xumh. r of .-Imiiunf Alumni Cnlrihuhil 
70 S 2.377.00 13 125.00 13 60.00 16 120.00 24 110.00 23 515.00 33 1.185.00 21 180.00 31 236.00 32 900.00 29 1.185.00 63 803.00 57 705.00 60 1.090.00 71 1,503.00 70 1,295.00 67 43,808.90 94 1.516.50 79 3.238.00 62 945.00 90 2.780.00 
113 925.00 173 10.389.00 218 6.991.20 224 2,755.00 311 3.695.00 267 4,062.00 388 6.329.00 452 9,973.00 467 7.694.00 478 3,777.00 526 7,227.30 518 5,143.23 544 4,698.50 543 3,065.25 505 4,910.00 416 4.020.00 432 2.640.00 498 4,098.00 357 2,932.00 643 5.293.15 589 3.022.50 567 3.852.00 566 3,236.00 527 2.438.00 337 2.725.00 301 835.73 719 1,848.00 
1034 3.791.00 1391 6,176.50 1157 4.333.50 917 3.632.42 1080 3.436.00 849 3,375.50 991 3,043.25 947 3,791.60 1036 3.055.06 1225 464.00 304.15 308.73 32,750.00 2.162.39 25.149.00 
3564 S281.426.04 


FORMER ALUMNI PRESIDENT DIES 
William E. Cotter, Sr., '13, a foniier Piesident of the .-Mtimni .Association, 1937-38, and Cotmsel for Union Car­bide Corporation, died .-\iigtist 15 after a brief illness. His son. \V. E. Jr., "41. is a member of the Board of Directors of the Alumni .Association. 
Mr. Cotter \vas graduated from Notre l^ame with a degree of LL.B. in 1913. In addition, he held honoraiy degrees of Doctor of Commercial Sci­ence awarded to him by Holy Cross 
\VILLI.\M E. COTTER. SR.. M3 
College in 19.50, LL.D. by St. Michael's College in 1954, and LL.D. by .St. Man"s College, Notre Dame, Indiana, in 1956. 
During World War H. -Mr. Cotter was active in War Bond Drives, seizing as Chairman of the Greater New York Victoiy Loan, and as a member of the New ^'ork State War Finance Com­mittee. 
Mr. Cotter received Papal decora­tions as a Knight Commander, with Star and Grand Cross of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre of jeriisaleiii. and as a Knight Sovereign of the Militaiv Order of Malta. 
In addition to his widow. Evarista Brady Cotter and son, Mr. Cotter is sttivived by two datighters Mrs. Evar­ista Ruth Kane and Mi's. Mary Ca­mille Millard, both of Larcliinont. New-York. 

appointment as representatives to the Catholic Family Movement Confer­


Activities Aplenty for 
ence to be held soon at the Vatican. Breakfast at the Huddle and a look around brought the universal comment, 

First Vetville Reunion 
"We never had it so good." 
By Lou Il'vw't' 

Former residents of Vetville gathered on campus for their first reunion during the July 4tli week end. .\kiinni and wives came from distant points and nearby cities and all of them departed after tlie three-day progiain much en­iluised over the series of events. Speeches were lield to a minimum, while a ini.xture of spiritual and social activities helped form a perfect agenda for the retiiming couples. The occasion was highlighted by the presence of Father "Ted" Hesburgh. who was Vet­ville's lirst chaplain, following the erec­tion of this special housing project im­mediately after World War II. 
The committee who planned and worked so diligently for the success of the Reunion consisted of John and .•\gnes Mmphy, Terre Haute, Indiana: William and Helen O'Connor, Ham­mond. Ind.: Jim and Mary Rice, Chi­cago. III.: and. Tim and Hetty Bradley. South Bend, Ind. 
Tlie entire group had kept in contact through 77ic ll'ord. a semi-annual publication of family news originated and fomierly edited by Helen and Bill O'Connor, later written by John and Baibara Fead. Cincinnati, O., and now edited by Paul and Jean Shimieyer. Ft. Wayne, Ind. 
.Activities began Friday afternoon with checking in al Cavanaugh Hall, followed by dinner at Simny Italy. Vic (one of Veiville's pioneer mayors) Gulyassy. Cleveland. O.. was elected honorary mayor of the reunion. From Rosie's. the group returned to Cava­naugh Rec and enjoyed an old-fash­ioned song-fest \vhich yielded only to the birdies of the early mom. 
Satiuday's rising stm found Eva Clair Ohlmeyer, Chicago, 111., conduct­ing calisthenics with a lOO^r- attend­ance. Husband Don amused himself by reminding eveiyone of how imich they had aged the past 10 years. 
\ private Mass in Cavanaugh Chapel was said by Father "Ted" fol­lowed by his elociuent message on "Thanksgiving." Chuck and Marian Perrin. Peoria, 111., received much de­served congratulations from all on their 
The picnic in the afternoon at Tower Hill was good for. many a laugh and several fond meinories. Craig (The Veep) \Vhittaker, Kansas City, Mo., turned out to be the "big noi.sc" of the week end. even with fireworks illegal in Indiana. "Black John"' and .AG Muiphy acted as life gtiards for the day. \Vonder where Frank Romano got those ermine trimmed swim trunks. 
The Morn's Inn's Mahogany Room was the scene of Saturday night's "formal" event with a cocktail hour and dinner followed by Father Ted's review of remarks he made ten years earlier at a Cana Conference for this same group. The group presented Father with a gift and a scrapbook (compiled by Helen O'Connor, with artwork by Zeke Zuchowsky, and con­sisting primarily of snapshots of Vet­ville families) as a small token of ap­preciation for his inspirational guid­ance throughout the years. Following the dinner, the group thoroughly en­joyed the showing of the new film Notre Dame. 
Upon returning that night to Cava­(Continued on page 15.) 
Left to right, first ro«:.Mrs. James Rice. Mrs. Crais Whilaker. Mrs. Leo Zuckowsky, Mrs. Bill O'Connor; second row. James Rice, Mrs. John .\nderlon. Mrs. John Simon, .Mrs. John Murphy, .Mrs. Lou Wynne. .Mrs. Vic Gulyassy, Afrs. Jack Barry, Mrs. Chuck Pcrrin, .Mrs. Don Ohlmeyer, .Mrs. Bill Staplcton; third row: Father Pelton, C.S.C., Craii; \\'hitaker, Vic Gu]ya.ssy, Jack Barry, John .Andcrton, John Simon, John Murphy. Father Hesburgh, C.S.C., Lon Wynne, Don Ohlmeyer, Frank Romano, Bill Staplcton, Bill O'Connor. Others pres­ent but not in picture: Frank Quinns. Chuck Goldcns, Harry AV'illianis. Byron Hayes. Hugh Roaches, Joe Donlans, Paul Schirnieyere, 
Bruce Bishops, Dick Balfes. 

CAPTAIN MORSE NAMED NEW NROTC SKIPPER 
Capt. Leonard T. Morse, naval at­tache at the American embassy in Moscow since 1955, has been ap­pointed commanding officer of the Na\7 ROTC unit and professor of naval science at Notre Dame. Morse assumed his new duties on September 3 and succeeds Capt. Thomas L. Greene who is retiring after 30 years ser\'ice in die Navy. 
A native of Portland, Me., and a 1929 Annapolis graduate, Capt. Morse has been decorated for his service dur­ing AVorld AVar II and the Korean conflict. He was nawgator and air officer aboard the aircraft carrier "Hor­net" during 1943-44 and later served as staff plans officer for Naw air units on Guam and with the Pacific fleet. In Korea, where he was senior naval liaison officer, he was cited for "skill­fully coordinating the operations of naval aircraft -with those of the Fifth Air Force . . ." 
Capt. Morse has been a naval ab­ator since 1932. His tours of dut\' dur­ing the past 25 years have included assignments with Navy air units and commands of, ships and bases serving the Navy's air mission. In Moscow he held the dual posts of naval attache and naval attache for air. His decora­tions include the Bronze Star Medal with Gold Star in lieu of the second award. 

Frank Lewis Receives First Loyola Award 

j Frank J. Lewis, 90, an honorary lalumnus and benefactor of Notre .Damej was the recipient of Loyola iUniversity's first annual Damen Award 
in August. Mr. Lewis, who received an honorary LL.D. degree at Notre Dame in 1954, received the award as the first of a series of outstanding Americans honored for tlieir dedication "to God, to society and to die nation." 

Mr. Le\vis is remembered at Notre Dame for having donated the Lewis Bus Terminal, completed in 1953, .which stands at die east end of the Circle near the universit)- entrance from Notre Dame Avenue. He is famed in Chicago for ha\Tng founded and endowed hospitals and chapels and aided several Chicago area univer­sities and colleges. 
Sister Marj- Aquinas, '42, of Green Bay, Wis., a member of the Franciscan Sisters of Cliris­tian Charity, receives the Air Force Association Citation of honor for "contributions to air age education" from Mrs. Carl A. Spaatz, wife of the first Air Force Chief of Staff, Washington, D. C. 

Tlying Nun/ Graduate of 1942 Class, Honored by Air Force Association 
The winner of the Air Force Asso­ciation citation of honor for "contribu­tions to air age education" gives Notre Dame much of the credit for her unique achievements. 

Sister Mar>' Aquinas, O.S.F., '42, die famous "flying nun" who was the sub­ject of the award-winning television play, "The Pilot," is a veteran of eight summers at the universit)', two in pre­graduate work and six in obtaining her 
M.S. degree in electronics. During her Notre Dame years Sister Aquinas was a teaching fellow in the physics department, introducing a class of Sisters to that abstruse field of study. She helped with work on the univer­sity's fint atom smasher, cleaning the rings and "activating silver dollars." She also took photography and used her own photographs to illustrate her thesis. Much of what she learned she was able to transmit to high school, adult education and college classes in science and aeronautics during the cru­
cial war years. Her laboratory technique, so valu­

able in preparing young Americans all over the country for work in science and a\'iation, was learned in the e.xperi­mental laborator)' of Dr. Edward Coomes of the physics department. Dr. Coomes, Sister says, was "way aliead of his time in developing electronics labs at N.D." 
Sister Aquinas had her first flying experience at the St. Joseph County Airport. Most of her class of nuns flew that summer as part of their class work. She won her license in AViscon­sin after she received her degree in " 1942. 
She was at Notre Dame during the first influx of German professors fleeing from Hitler and shared the object of their superior wrath toward "dumb" ,­Americans. 
In her present educational work, as Supervisor of Education for the Green Bay, Wis., Diocese, Sister Aquinas often meets other nuns who trained at 
N.D. and alwa)'s enjo)'s a reunion with fellow alumnae. 
-rrrrrrTii' 

Father Hesburgh, Dr. Collins Talk At Physics Meet 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., addressed more than 200 physicists at­tending the American Physical Soci­ety's eastern summer meeting at N'^tre Dame. He is a member of the Na­tional Science Board and recently was appointed permanent Vatican City representative to the new International Atomic Energ)' Agency. Dr. George 
B. Collins, of the Brookhaven National Laborator)', Upton, N. Y., and former 
N. D. faculty member, also spoke at the banquet in the University Dining Hall. 
Physicists, the Notre Dame president said, seem "to sense a broader respon­sibility for the world of nuclear fission and fusion that they have introduced to the brink of great good or great evil." Possibly there is an impression among scientists, he said, "that science indeed has occasioned problems that science alone cannot answer." 

Soviets Possess High Energy Accelerator "First-rate theologians and scientists haven't been on speaking terms for cen­turies," Father Hesburgh observ'ed. "They don't even speak the same lan­guage any more. But almost uncon­sciously, there have been some tenta­tive attempts at bridge building from both sides of the divide." He described science and theolog)' as "two strengths that can obviously be more meaningful to America, and to man generally, if they are working together, each in its own way, for the good of mankind, and not at cross purposes." The great power of science, he said, "will be most meaningful if it is directed toward man's ultimate perfection and destiny." Doctor Collins stated that Russia ' now has the highest energy accelerator in the world operating at ten billion electron volts and indicated that a twenty-five billion electron volt ma­chine is now under constniction at the Brookhaven National Laborator}'. Scheduled for completion in 1960, the machine's 240 six-ton magnet sections are arranged in a circle one-half mile in cirmumference, he said. The entire magnet is located in a concrete tunnel covered with ten feet of earth to absorb the radiation produced. 
Alumnus Aids Restoration of Korea's Economic Program 
L/N, fCA Hire Chemist for Insect Control 
A Notre Dame alumnus played the leading role in one of die more inter­esting stories just released, describing a problem of great magnitude in the war-ravaged country of Korea. 
Dr. Hugh S. Carroll, '18, an agri­culture chemist from Milwaukee, Wis­consin, and San Rafael, California, has been serving in Korea for six years with the United Nations Command, and was recently sent to the Philip­pines by the International Corporation Administration to help that country' deal with an infestation of beetles now damaging its copra crop. 
The John Herron Art Institute in In­dianapolis has just acquired tiro sculptures for its permanent collection, according to Da\-id G. Carter, Curator at the Museum. Both are the work of Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., of the Art Department at Notre Dame and include "The Visitation" (photo shon-n here), a terra cotta group, and "Christus Sepultus," a bas-relief in beaten copper. "The Visitation" was on exhibi­tions at St. Mary's College and in the An­nual Ceramic Exhibition at the South Bend Art Center. 
In 1953, Dr. Carroll, who also re­ceived a master's degree at Notre Dame, helped save millions of dollars in Korea by combating weevils which had infested cereals and other food crops—threatening to wipe out 300,000 tons of grain which had been imported by the United Nations Command to hold off starvation in the rear of the front line troops. 
The U. S. Army was not equipped to take on a problem of such magni­tude on short notice. There wasn't enough time to replace the grain be­fore the traditional hunger months of Korea Just ahead of the spring harvest. 
Dr. CartoU knew of only one lethal chemical with a gas heav)' enough to penetrate stored grain and not present a fire hazard. This was methyl bro­mide, known to kill hunnns as well as weevils. It had never before been used on a nationwide scale by un­trained people to cope with such a threatening disaster. 
As a safety precaution, he designed a lamp from available local materials, which burned green or blue in the pres­ence of the menacing gas. By mid-Feb­ruary, 1954, he had perfected the lamp, had it manufactured, and was training Korean technicians in its use. 
These men moved into action, using plastic sheets to cover the large piles of grain, \vith gas masks, lamps and cylinders of methyl bromide. They car­ried out what amounted to a blitzkrieg on the hungry weevils, fumigating grain in warehouses and imder canvas in the cold \vinter weather. 
"Not a single illness or death re­sulted from this nation-wide campaign and the grain saved was worth millions of dollars," reported Burlin Hamer, the Director of the Office of Agriculture at ICA headquarters. The report from the Koreans was written on the faces of better fed children and grateful refugees, and the weevils have not posed a serious threat to Korea's stored crops since that day. 
The story of this combination of in­spiration and practical action prompted the Philippines to request Carroll's 
(Continued on page 15.) 



J. R. Record, '04, Marks 50th Anniversary on Texas Paper 
On August 25 Jim Record celebrated Star-Telegram staffers find the story liis golden anniversary- with the Fori hard to believe. They consider him a Worth Star-Telegram. man with no nerves to unnerve. In his 
During all those 50 years on the own meteorological terms, he's always Texas daily, as reporter, cit)- editor, "fair and mild." managing editor and now associate edi­At 71 Jim Record is at the office 
tor, his hobby ever\' day and drops by on Sunday has been weath­after Mass. He used to work a 75­er. In Texas hour week. Among the honors he has weather is al­received are a Papal Knighthood of St ways big news. Gregory the Great, conferred by Pope Only once, dur­Pius XII: a Brotherhood Award be­ing the floods stowed by the National Conference of 
last spring, has 

Christians and Jews, and a warm trib­Mr. Record ad­
ute in Editor and Publisher. mitted he's had Bom in Paris, Texas, he took his 
James R. Record, '04 

enough rain. At first job wtli the Paris Advocate^ liis direction the Star-Telegram put switched to the Courier in Texarkana rain gauges all over Fort \Vorth and in and came to the Star-Telegram in strat(^c locations in West Texas, and 1907. Mr. Record lives in Fort AVorth measurements are published each day \\'ith his wife, the former Alabell in all seven editions. 
Bro\\Ti. He blames a railroad engineer for starting his newspaper career. He had alwa)'s wanted to be a professional 
REV. JOHN WALSH 
baseball player. The engineer, a base­ball fan, parked his loconiotive ne.xt to 


NAMED DEPT, HEAD 

the field during a semi-pro' game and blew his whistle just as Mr. Record Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., has \\'as about to catch a long fly to left been appointed head of the Depart­field. "I was imnerved and dropped ment of Education at Notre Dame. tlie ball," he recalls. "It was my last 
Father Walsh, a specialist in the phi­ball rame," 
losophy of education, succeeds Dr. Ber­

RA^^E FROM ROME 
Vatican Cit}-, July 17, 1957 Very Reverend and Dear Father Hesburgh, 
It gives nic much pleasure to infonn you that His Holiness has received from tlie Very Reverend Father O'Toole, C.S.C., the documentary film on Notre Dame University which you have wished to fo^^vard for his acceptance. 
The Holy Father, who is so well aware of the praiseworthy work being accomplished by Notre Dame University and of its valuable contribution to the cause of Catholic Education, was greatly pleased to receive this film and to learn of the completion of the new buildings which will enable the entire undergraduate student body to live on the campus. He bids me assure you of his gratitude for this presentation, and he prayerfully beseeches Almighty God to continue to bless and prosper the university's meritorious work. 
In pledge of that heavenly favor and in further token of his paternal inter­est and benevolence, the FontiiT cordially imparts to you and to the staff and student body of the University of S'otre Dame his paternal Apostolic Benediction. 
Gladly do I assure you of my high esteem and cordial regard, and I remain. Yours sincerely in Christ, 
MONSIGNOR ANGELO DELL'ACQUA, Substitute Secretary of State for Vatican City 
BULLETIN FROM THE FBI Donald F. Graz, wanted by the Fed­eral Bureau of Investigation for inter­state transportation of stolen property, has been cashing checks purported to have been received from the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Much of his ac­tivity has centered in the Southwest. Graz uses numerous aliases such as Carl Anderson^ Michael Dow, James M. Haney, Robert M. Henderson, Robert Gary Woods and others. Frequently Graz Wctimizes merchants by making a purchase for an amount less than the check, requesting the balance in cash and having the merchandise delivered to a fictitious address. He is 26 years old, white, 6'3" in height, weighs 180 pounds and has a tworinch scar on his right cheek. Graz reportedly has suicidal ten­dencies. Any information on this crim­inal should be given to the nearest FBI division office. 

nard J. Kohlbrenner who has headed the department since 1949. Kohlbren­ner, who has taught at Notre Dame from 1929 to 1933 and since 1945, will now give all his time to teaching and research. 
A 34-year-old native of Jackson. Nebraska, Father Walsh received a doctorate from Yale University in 1953 and has been a Notre Dame fac­ult)' member since that time. Father VValsh entered the novitiate of the Holy Cross Fadiers in 1942 and was graduated from Notre Dame in 1945. After four years of theological studies at Holy Cross College, Washington, 
D. C , he was ordained to the priest­hood on June 8, 1949, by the late Archbishop John F. Noll of Fort AVajTie. He received a master's degree at Notre Dame the following year. Father AValsh is a member of the Com­parative Education Society and is president of the Chicago region of the Philosophy of Education Society. 
Dr. Kohlbrenner, a native of Syra­cuse, N. Y., has specialized in the liis­tor>' of education. He holds degrees from Syracuse University and Har\'ard which awarded him a doctorate in 1942. Prior to re-joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1945, he was head of tlie department of education at the College of New Rochelle, N. Y. From 1933 to 1940 he taught at St. Louis (Mo.) University. He is the author of more than 30 articles in professional journals and is a member of tlie Na­tional Education Association and the National Catholic Educational Asso­ciation. 
tl 
^ 

14 Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November, 1957 
Dr. Hufnagel 
(Continued from page 9.) 
structor in surgerj-. In 1950 he came to Georgetown. 

Dr. Hufnagel and his wife, the former Katherine Mouhon, reside in \Vashington with their two daughters, Katherine, 11, and Judith Ann, 7. The surgeon finds rela.xation in his few at-home hours with ceramics, sculpture and painting. "He's good at anything with his hands," says a friend. 
The best evidence that Dr. Hufnagel is "good with his hands" is the fact that Itundreds of persons arc living who, but for his creative research and opera­tive skill, would probably now be dead. But, unimpressed by his fame. Dr. Hufnagel continues to work, seeking methods to correct still-puzzling heart and chest ailments. "As long as disease exists," he says, "doctors must find a way to cure it. What has already been done really just points the way to what can be done." 

Korea's Economic Program 
(Continued from page 13.) 

( ser\'ices in helping to deal with the infestation of beetles now damaging its copra, which is the dried meat of coco­nuts. Constituting one of the country's major exports, copra is extremely im­portant to the Philippines. 
An avid student of the latest trends in his field, Carroll is quick to point [' out new developments that "impinge on agricultiire"—a favorite phrase of his. This has led him to seek new ways and means of attacking perennial prob­lems, such as putting to use the newer drugs and chemicals along with old  established formulas. Among these new 

RELIGIOUS CHRISTMAS CARDS 
Three seasonal favorites to choose from: 
TRv\PITIO.VAL ASSORTME.XT 
MODERN" LITURGICAL CARDS 

BERTA HU.M.MEL SELECTIONS 
$1.00 PER BOX 
All Proceeds Go to the Missions 
Order from 
MOREAU SEMIN'ARY MISSION SOCIETY Notre Dame, Indiana 

Prof. Andrew Boyle, '28, registers new students. 
drugs now being used in ancient Korea, whose fanning goes back thousands of yeai-s, are such antibiotics as aureo­mycin which is mixed with livestock feed to give greater vigor to farm animals. 
Dr. Carroll and his wife, who is with him in the Far East, have five children: John, William, Mi-s. Mar>' McDonald. Patrick, and Bernard. In addition to receiving academic degrees from Notre Dame, he has worked as a Research Chemist at the University of California. 

Vetviile Reunion 
(Continued from page 11.) 

naugh Rec, even greater talent than we realized in the Vetviile days of yore was disclosed. Betty Quinn, Jewett City, Conn., surpassed our greatest ex­pectations. Frank sat idly by wonder­ing if a 10% agents' fee wouldn't be more lucrative than a good law prac­tice. But let's not forget that Betty did have excellent competition in Mar.' Rice. Awards were again in the offing. Ann ^Vynne, Allentown, Pennsylvania, was named the "Mother of the Most-est" which only spoiled Lou's week end in reminding him that the rest of the summer would be spent in rounding them all up again. Phoebe Stapleton, Ludington, Mich., was a close second in this award. Mary Roach, Kalamazoo, Mich., won the "lady of quickest de­cision" prize. After deciding at the last minute to come, it only took her 30 minutes to dress and pack. Zeke Zuchowsky, South Bend, Ind., was the "official photographer" for the Reunion and did a swell job. The Williams family of South Bend really cleaned up with Harry winning in the "quiet man" division and Bemadine being appointed campus arboriculturist for the week end. 
On Sunday morning we all realized that there were kiddies at home and jobs awaiting. Our Mass, including a renewal of the marriage vows; receiving Holy Communion; breakfast; and last minute pictures climaxed a wonderful Reunion ^Veek End. Everyone is look­ing forward to next get-together in 1962, 
Former N.D. Professor Directed Symposium 
Dr. Alexander R. Troiano, former head of the Metallurgy' Department at Notre Dame and now a member of the Case Institute faculty, directed a two-day International S>-mposium in Cleve­land recently. 
Invitations were issued to 150 of the top steel specialists in 17 countries throughout the world. Experts from six nations delivered a dozen papers on annealing processes of steel during the five general sessions. 
An internationally known expert on heat treatment of steels, particularly in the field of alloy steels. Dr. Troiano is famed for his research in high strength steels, and in 1956 received the Howe Medal from the ASM for his outstand­ing research in metallurgy during 1955. 
National Champs on ND 1957-58 Cage Schedule 
Coach Jordan's Squad Clashes With Nations Outstanding Teams During Difficult Twenty-Six Game Season 
North Carolina, last year's national champions and winners of the 

N.C.A.A.
 Tournament, and Bradley, victors in the N.I.T. toumey, are among the teams to be encountered on die 26-game 1957-58 Notre Dame bas­ketball schedule which was announced recently by Athletic Director Edward 

W.
 Krause. Both the North Carolina and Brad­


ley games will be in Chicago Stadium. It -will be the first basketball meeting 
Football Co-Captains 
Ed Sullivan, 200-pound center from McKeesport, Pennsylvania, and Dick Prendergast, 213-pound left end from Chicago, were chosen by their team­mates as co-captains of the 1957 foot­ball team shortly before the season opener against Purdue. 
The pre-season selection is the first in recent years by a Notre Dame team. The next season's captain has been elected at the close of the previous sea­son since 1946, but a change in the pro­cedure was made last season. 
The new co-captains are veterans in the Irish line. Sullivan, speedy and a fiery linebacker, played tackle in his sophomore season, alternating with Capt. Ray Lemelj. He switched to cen­ter last season and although hampered by occasional injuries was the standout 
N.D. lineman as well as defensive signal-caller. 
Prendergast began his high school competition at Chicago's Mount Carmel under Irish coach Terry Brennan and came to N.D. in 1934 when Brennan became head coach. 

between the Irish and North Carolina. Bradley and Notre Dame have met six times in the past with the Irish show­ing four \'ictories. 
The Air Force Academy will join North Carolina as a first-time Notre Dame basketball opponent with the game taking place on the N.D. court. Two other "firsts" pertain, to Canisius and Holy Cross. Both \%dll play at Notre Dame for the initial time. Thir­teen previous games have been played with Canisius, in Buffalo, Notre Dame winning 10. Holy Cross and Notre Dame have met six times in Boston, and once in the Sugar Bowl, in New Orleans, with the Irish haxang a five-two edge. 
After an absence from the collegiate basketball scene of six years, the Hoo­sier Classic will again be held in the Butler Fieldhouse, in Indianapolis, during the Christmas holidays. As in the past, the four competing schools will be Indiana, Purdue, Notre Dame and Butler. 
A total of nine intersectional games and six -with. Big Ten opponents are included in the schedule. Also, home and home games will be played with Marquette, Butler, DePaul, and Louis­ville. The annual eastern trip, in Feb­ruary, will see the Irish playing New York University, at Madison Square Garden, and Nav>', at Annapolis. 
It will be the seventh season for Johnny Jordan as Notre Dame's bas­ketball coach. In the past three years, he has three times, including last sea­son, brought his team to the quarter­finals of the N.C.A.A. tournament. After the 1953-54 season, he was chosen "Coach of the Year" by the New York Basketball ^Vriters' Asso­ciation. 
Four regulars return from the 1956­57 Notre Dame team which won 20 and lost eight. They are: Co-Captain John McCarthy, senior forward; Co-Captain Bobby Devine, senior guard; Tom Hawkins, Junior forward, and Gene Duffy, junior guard. Hawkins, as a soph, set a one-season Notre Dame scoring record of 576 points. On the negative side, however, Jordan admits he does not have an outstanding can­didate for center to replace John Smyth, last year's captain. 
Basketball 
Dec. 3 St. Ambrose at N.D. 
7 Wisconsin at Madison 
9 Nebraska at N.D. 
14 Marquette at Milwaukee 
17 Loyola at N.D. 
21 Michigan State at East 
Lansing 
27-28 Hoosier Classic (Butler 
and N.D. play Indiana 
and Purdue on succeeding 
nights) at Indianapolis 
31 Northwestern at Evanston. 
111. 
Jan. 6 Butler at N.D. 
10 Valparaiso at Fort WajTie. 
Ind. 
15 DePaul at N.D. 
18 Louisville at Louisville 
25 Illinois at Chicago (Chi­
cago Stadium) 29 Louisville at N.D. Feb. 1 Bradley at Chicago (Chi­
cago Stadium) 
4 Canisius at N.D. 
8 Air Force Acad, at N.D. 
10 Marquette at N.D. 
12 Butler at Indianapolis 
15 North Carolina at Chicago 
(Chicago Stadium) 
20 New York Univ. at New 
York (Madison Square 
Garden) 
22 Nav)' at Annapolis 
28 Holy Cross at N.D. 
Mar. 1 Detroit at Detroit 
4 DePaul at Chicago 

Varsity Alphabetical Roster 
No. NAME POS. AGE HT. IVT. HOME TOIVN HIGH SCHOOL 
67  Adamson, Kenneth .  G  19  6-2  200  Atlanta,  Ga­ -Marist  
51  Beschen,  Richard —  C  20  6-1  190  Philadelphia, Pa.  -St.  Thomas More .  
53  Burke, Kevin ,  C  20  6-2  200  Richland, Wash. .  —Columbia  ..—— _  
11  Choako, Allan  HE  19  6-1  195  Parma, Ohio  -Parma  
77  •Ciesiebki, Richard .  T  20  5-11  210  South Bend, Ind. .  -St. Joseph  
41  Colosimo, James —  E  20  6-1  198  Eveletb, Minn.  -Eveleth  
69  Coison, Robert  C  20  6-3  205  Manisrique, ^iich.  -Manistique  
40 24 34 2 « 46 32 1 60 83 38 68 66 37 47 50  Costa, Donald Crotty, James Debetaz, Arthur — DcNardo, Ronald » DJubasak, Paul Dolan, Patrick Doyle, Patrick Dugan, Michael — •Ecuyer, Allen Flor, Oliver . .— Frederick, Charles . "Gaydos, Robert •Geremia, Frank — Gotham, Michael :-Harczlak, John Hcaly, Patrick Hebert, Carl Hickman, \Villiam . Hofacre, Jerry Kurd, David ,  G FB G FB G T HB QB G E E G T T HB HB QB HB G C  20 19 23 21 21 21 19 20 20 19 21 21 20 19 19 20 21 20 19 19 19  5-11 5-10 5-11 6-3 6-0 6-3 6-0 6-1 5-10 6-2 6-0 6-0 6-3 6-3 5-9 6-1 5-11 5-11 6-0 6-2  195 185 200 195 200 210 190 181 190 205 187 200 215 215 160 212 170 190 200 215 205  Ellwood City, Pa. Seattle, Wash New Roads, La. Bloomington, HI. _ Cleveland, Ohio Throop, Pa. Sioux City, la. Omaha, Nebraska , New Orleans, La. . Seattle, Wash Ft. Thomas, Ky. _ Donoia, Fa Sacramento, Cal. .. Wilkes Barre, Pa. . Rockford, lU. Baltimore, Md. _ Lafayette, La. ._ _ Oak Park. HI ^lassillon, Ohio —__ Three Rivers, ACch.  -Lincoln -International Falls, Minn. -St. Joseph __^——__ ^ -Trinity -Benedictine -Scianton Tech . -Heelan . -Creighton Prep . -Jesuit _ -Seattle Prep -Newport (Ky.) Cath. -Donora —-_—— — _C . K. McClatchy -GJ^R . -St. Thomas -Loyola -Cathedral -Oak Park . 3fassillon . -Three Rivers  
3  Izo, George  QB  20  6-2  188  Barberlon, Ohio  -Barfaerton  
«  •Just,  James  HB  20  6-1  190  Milwaukee, 'Wis.  -Don  Bosco  —  
56  King, Joseph  ..  G  21  6-2  205  Cincinnati, O. ___—  -Newport  (Ky.)  Cath. ,  
54  •Kuchta,  Frank  C  20  6-1  212  Cleveland,  O.  -Benedictine  
72  •Lawrence, Donald  .  T  21  6-1  185  Cleveland,  O.  -Cathedral  Latin .  
23  ••Lewis, Atibrey •  HB  21  190  Montdair,  N. J.  -Montdair  
48  •Lima,  Charles  FB  19  6-2  210  Cincinnati,  O. ...__  -PurceU  
74  Lodish,  Michael  —  E-T  19  6-2  208  Detroit, Mich.  -Detroit U.  (HS)  
31  Loop, Paul  G  20  6-1  210  Tulsa, Okla.  -Casda Hall .  
15  Lotti, Robert  G  21  5-11  185  San Mateo, Calif.  —Serra  
25 90  ••Lynch, Richard Manzo, Louis ^  HB T  19 19  6-0 6-2  205 225  Bound Brook, N. J. Old Forge, Pa.  -Phillipsfaurs-Old Forge   Cath.  
73 75 16 82 63 70 86 76 18 SI 49 61 87 33 57 19 27  McAllister, Donald . •McGinley, John — McGinn, Douglas » •Myers, Gary Muehlbauer, Afichael . •Nagurski, Bronko Nebcl, Edward Nicolazzi, Robert . Odyniec, Norman . Owens, William Pietrosante, Nick Pietrsak, Robert ••Prendergast, Richard Pring, Larry Puntillo, Charles Quinn, John . •Reynolds, Frank .  T G-T FB E G T E T FB £ FB G E G T HB HB  20 19 20 19 19 19 19 20 21 20 19 21 19 20 23 20 19 20  6-3 6-2 6-2 6-1 5-10 6-1 6-3 6-2 5-11 6-2 6-2 6-2 6-2 5-9 6-2 6-0 5-11  195 195 195 200 215 195 215 180 190 205 215 195 IBS 200 190 170 1^ 190  Louisville, Ky. Indianapolis, Ind. Sterling, HI. Spokane, Wash. _ Buffalo, N. Y. . International Falls, XCnn. , Mt. Clemens, ACch. Kenosha, Wis. Greensboro, N. C. . Lafayette, La. Ansonia, Conn. Hamtramck, Mich. . Homewood, HI. Salisbury, N. C East Chicago, Ind. . Philadelphia, Fa. _ Oak Park. HI  —St. Xavier -Cathedral —Newman Catholic . —Gonzaga Prep —Canisius -International Falls . -St. Mary's . -Mary D. Bradford . -Greensboro -Cathedral -Notre Dame (W. Haven)­-Cath. Central -Mt . Carmd (Chicago) -Boyden -Roosevdt -Northeast Cath. -Fenwick (Cliicago)  
21  Rini, Thomas .  HB  19  5-9  205  Cleveland, Ohio  -Benedictine  
84  •Roycr, Richard —  E  20  6-2  175  Cincinnati, O.  -_ —  -Purcell  
65  Sabal, Albin  G  20  5-11  195  Chicago, 111.  -Mendel Cath.  
29  Salsich, Peter  HB  19  5-10  225  St. Louis, Mo.  -St. Louis U. (HS)  
62  Schaaf, James .  G  20  6-0  198  Erie, Pa.  -Cathedral Prep  
55  Sclioltz, Robert  _  C  20  6-2  173  Tulsa,  Okla.  -Marquette  
88  Seaman, Neil  T  20  6-1  190  Bower Hill, Pa. .  -Scott Twp.  (Carnegie)  
ID  Selcer, Richard —  HB  IS  5-9  195  Cincinnati. Oliio .  -Eider  
39  •Shulsen,  Richard  G  19  6-0  200  Salt Lake City, U.  _  -Catholic  Cent.  
58  ^Herman, John —  C  19  6-3  215  Chicago, HI.  -St. George  
26  Sleekier, Gary  —  G  22  5-10  190  ViUe Platte,  La.  -Vnie Platte  _  
80  Stickles, Monty  _  E  19  6-4  200  Poughkeepsie. N. Y, .  -Poughkeepsie .  
52  ••Sullivan,  Edward  C  20  6-0  205  McKeesport,  Fa.  -McKeesport  ­ 
43  Thycn, John Toth, Ronald  E FB  22 20  6-3 6-1  160 215  Jasper, Ind. E. Cleveland, O.  _  -Jasper -Cathedral  Latin .  
35 89 6  ••Ward, Robert . •Wetoska, Robert _ ^Vhile, Donald  HB E QB  19 19 20  5-8 6-3 5-11  190 200 185  Lamherton, Pa. Minneapolis, Minn. Haverhill, Mass.  -German Twp. . -D e LaSalle -HaverhiU  
4  wake, Henry  QB  6-0  Hamilton,  Ohio —  —Hamilton Cath. .  
9  •IVilliams,  Robert  QB  6-2  IVUkes Barre, Pa. .  _G.A.R. .  

CLASS 
-Jr. -Jr­_So. -Jr. -Jr. -So. -Jr. 
_Sr. _Sr. _Sr. -So. -Jr. -Jr. 
-Jr. _Sr. -Jr. -So. 
-So. 
-Jr. 
-So. -So. -Jr. -Jr. _Sr. -Jr. _Sr. -Sr. -So. -So. -So. -Sr. -Jr. -So. 
-So. -Jr. -So. -Jr. 
-So. -Jr. 
-Jr. -So. -Sr. -So. -Jr. -So. -Jr. -So. -Jr. -So. _Jr. -Jr. 
-So. 
-Jr. -Jr. -Sr. 
-So. -Sr. 
-Jr. -Sr. -Jr. 
-So. -Jr. 
* Denotes Monograms Won 
J 

"Directoryof Clubs and Their Presidents 
ARIZONA 

Phoenix—A. Carlton Gilbert, '49, 4710 E. Clarendon, Phoenix, Ariz. Tucson—Kenneth J. Bayly, '50, 15 East Alameda St., Tucson, .Ariz. 
ARKANSAS 

Fort Smith — Burley Johnston, Jr., '40, Qualit)' Flowers, 925 Garrison, Ft. Smith, .Arkansas. 
Little Rock—James E. Madigan, '43, 4617 Crestwood, Little Rock, .Ark. 
CALIFORNIA 

Central—Dr. John W. Fne, '43, 3895 E. Princeton -Ave., Fresno, Calif. Los Angeles—George R. Meeker, '40, 11236 
E. Live Oak Ave., .Arcadia, Calif. Northern—Edsvaid F. Mansfield, '34, 523 West Hillsdale, San Mateo, Calif. 
San ZJie^o—Howard F. Beilstein, '47, 1196 Hardin Dr., El Cajon, Calif. 
COLORADO 

i)en»er—Glenn F. Menhcnnett, '49, 307 Mile High Center, Denver, Colo. Southern Colorado—.A. Jack Thomas, '49, 3222 Rex St., Pueblo, Colo. 
CONNECTICUT 

Connecticut Valley—^.Arthur McGec, '31, 204 High St., Wallingford, Conn. Fairfield County—Francis Kowalski, '46, 60 Baldwin Terr., Fairfield, Conn. Naugatuck — James J. Scigliano, '42, 15 Hewlett St., Waterbury, Conn. New Haven—Edward -A. Byrne, '26, 818 Edgewood .Ave., New Haven, Conn. 
DELAWARE 

Charles A. Wolfe, Jr., 312 Holly Oak Rd., Gwinhurst, Wilmington 3, Del. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

John -A. McGrath, '48, 5301 Muncaster Mill Rd., Rock\-ille, Md. 
FLORIDA 

Centra/—Roy B. Laughlin, '48, 2626 Nor­folk Rd., Orlando, Fla. Fort Lauderdale—George Ernst, 325 S.W. First .Ave., Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Greater Miami—Michael Zorovich, '44, 405 _N.E. 99th St., Miami Shores, Fla. North Florida—^Richard H. Brodeur, '50, 4638 Ramona St, Jacksonville, Fla. 
St. Petersburg-Tampa—Roy J. Deeb, '48, Peninsular Bldg. Supply Co., 114 13th St. North, St. Petersburg, Fla. 
GEORGIA 

.4((an(a—Richard deGolian, '40, P.O. Box 973, .Atlanta 1, Ga. 
IDAHO 

Francis Neitzcl, '23, 9 Mesa Dr., Boise,. Idaho. 
Idaho Fo/fa—James M. Brady, '29, P.O. Box 581, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS 

Aurora—Robert J. Kcarns, '43, 528 Oak .Ave., .Aurora, 111. Central lUinob—Edward G. Coleman, '50, 2147 S. Walnut St, Springfield, 111. Chicago—Francis J. Milligari, Jr., '45, 841 Hunter Rd., Glem-iew, 111. Eastern Illinois—T>ona\d Figel, '42, 1607 N. Vermilion, Danville, III. Fox Valle}—George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St, Elgin, 111. Joliet—Dominic F. Boetto, '44, Suite 421, Chalstrom Bldg., Joliet, 111. 
Kankakee Valley — Marvin O. Huot, '33, 964 S. Evergreen Ave., Kankakee, 111. Peorio—John E. Cassidy, Jr., '45, 1100 Jef­
ferson Building, Peoria, III. Rockford—James H. Dunn, Jr.. '39, 2400 11th St., Rockford, 111. Rock River Valley—]ohj\ H. Cahill, '33, 1002 Galena Ave., Dixon, 111. 
Southern Cook County—r-Thomas O'Grady, '50, 518 Longwood Dr., Chicago Heights, III. 
INDIANA 

Calumet District—Tom Clifford, '49, 715 Harrison St, Gary, Ind. Eastern Indiana—Edward Dixon, '48, 523 Johnson Bldg., Muncie, Ind. Elkhart—Austin C. Gildea, '30, 117 W. High St, Elkhart, Ind. Evansville—Edwin Kcippf, '49, 636 E. Gum St., Evansville, Ind. Fort Wayne—i. Thomas O'Reilly, '44, 335 
W. Sherwood Terrace. Indianapolis—^Joseph M. McNamara, '47, 
P.O. Box 6012, Indianapolis, Ind. Michigan City—Dr. Joseph .A. Bergan, '42, Potta\vattomie Park, Michigan City, Ind. St. Joseph T'aHej'—Donald Fisher, '38, 812 Odd Fellows Bldg., South Bend, Ind. Terre Haute—John F. P. Murphy, '44, 
2600 Crawford St., Terre Haute, Ind. Wabash Valley—JamesAV. Glaser, '50, 139 
E. Oak St, West Lafayette, Ind. 
IOWA 

Burlington—^Dr. Donal C. Petersen, '42, 511 F & M Bank Bldg., Buriington, Iowa. Cedar Rapids—Steve Provost, '49, 623 27th 
St. N.E., Cedar Rapids, loiva. Des Afotnei—Robert M. Cannon, '47, 650 39th St., Des Moines 12, Iowa. Dubuque—^Rev. William Kunsch, '37, Loras College, Dubuque, Iowa. Sioux-Land—^Robert .A. Manning, '36 (vice­pres.), 721 33rd St, Sioux City, Iowa. Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, 
E. Moline)—Camile F. Bracke, '42, 1630 Fifth Ave., Moline, 111. 
KANSAS 

Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, '49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. 
Salina — Robert -A. McAulifTe, '36, 1307 Court Place, Salina, Kansas. Wichita—Dr. Bernard Croivley, '28, 430 
N. Battin, Wichita, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY 

James C. Hennessy, '51, 3552 Ramona, Louis^lle 5, Ky. 
LOUISIANA 

Ark-La-Tex—George J. Despot, '45, 517 Market, Shreveport, La. New Orleans—^James E. Smith, '50, 512 Crystal, New Orleans 24, La. 
MAINE 

Ra>-mond -A. Gciger, '32, cjo Geigcr Bros., Lcwiston, Me. 
MARYLAND 

Baltimore — Frank M. Sandera, '34, 503 Groom Dr., Towson 4, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS ' Boi/o«—William O'Brien, '44, 18 Flint­lock- Rd., Lexington, Mass. Pioneer Valley—^.Arthur L. Demers, '35, 17 Gillette .Ave., Springfield, Mass. 
MICHIGAN 

Battle Creek—Raymond R. Allen, '40, 409 Orchard Place, Battle Creek, Mich. Berrien County—^Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St Joe, Niles, Mich. 
Blue Water District—William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot .Ave., Port Huron, Mich. Dearborn—Jerry Gass, '48, 810 N. Vernon, 
Dearborn, Mich. Detroit — Edward A. Gage, '29, 18075 Parkside, Detroit 21, Mich. f/fn<—Raymond J. Kelly, Jr., '41, 2454 Nolen Dr., Flint 4, Mich. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan— Charies W. Duffy, '37, 901 Chippewa S.E., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Hiawathaland—Robert F. Voelkcr, '39, Box 88, Stephenson, Mich. Iron Range—Eugene R. Zinn, 105 Brogan Bldg., Ironwood, Mich. Jackson—Lester J. Wisda, '31, 1016 E. Can-son St, Jackson, Mich. Kalamazoo — Robert Shields, '35, 1822 Grand Ave., Kalamazoo, Mich. Monroe—Charies J. Golden, '48, 35 E. Front St., Monroe, Mich. Muskegon—J. Frank Oehlhoffen, '27, 1740 Randolph St., Muskegon, Mich. Saginaw Valley—Vincent T. Boyle, '49, 1124 W. Main St., Midland, Mich. Top of Michigan—Edward L. Moloney, '17, 416 East State St., Cheboygan, Mich. 
MINNESOTA 

Duluth-Superior—James P. Keough (treas­urer), 2705 East Fifth St, Duluth,Minn. Twin Cities — Harold J. Soderberg, '49, 2301 St Anthony Blvd., Minneapolis,. .Minn. 
t; 

M 
V 

n. 
% 

MISSISSIPPI 
William P. Condon, '39 (vice-pres.), 718 Washington, Greenville, Miss. 
MISSOURI 
Kansas City—(\fo. and Kans.)—Edward 
F. Aylward, '48, 922 Walnut St., Kansas City 6, Mo. 
St. ioaij—John F. Higgins, Jr., 2508 Nor­mandy Dr., Grcendale 21, Mo. 
MONTANA 
Bernard Grainey, '43, 906 11th Avenue, Helena, Mont. 
NEBRASKA 
Omaha and Council Bluffs—^Herb Sampson, '50, 541 South 69th St., Omaha, Neb. 
NEW JERSEY 
Central—Gilbert .\ugustine, '32, 222 Kear­ny • Ave, Perth .-Vmboy, N. J. New Jersey—Rajinond Troy, '34, 35 Essex Ave., Montclair, N. J. South Jersey—E. Francis Bailey, '48, 6916 Rogers Ave., Merchantvillc 8, N. J. 
NEW MEXICp 
George A. Schreibcr, '41, 901 Loma Linda, S.E., Albuquerque, N. M. 
NEW YORK 
Buffl/o—Francis J. Gaglione, '39, 36 Fern-hill Ave., Buffalo 15, J^^ Y . 
Capital District—C. F. Regan, Jr., '27, 1592 New Scotland Rd., Box 158, Slingcr­lands, N. Y. 
Central—H. Philip Shcan, '31, 125 Dcwitt­shirc Rd., Dcwitt 14, N. Y. Golden Circle — Russell J. Jandoli, '40 vicc-prcs.), 13 Whittingham Terr., MiU 
bum, N. J. 
Mid-Hudson Valley—Joseph A. Roricfc, '42, 27 Monell Ave., Poughkeepsic, N. Y. Mohawk Valley—Dr. Daniel C. Shaugh­
ncssy, '30, 115 Green St., Herkimer, N. Y. 
New York Cif)-—William H. Fallon, '37, 100 Pelham Rd., New Rochelle, N. Y. A'or//iern—Joseph R. Brandy, '21, Box 267, 

Ogdensburg, N. Y. Rochester—^Thomas M. Higgins, '48, 40 ' Quinn Rd., Rochester 23, N. Y. Schenectady — William G. Leonard, '49, " 1124 Gamer Ave., Schenectady, N. Y. Southern Tier—Edwin Bonham, '09, 329 
IN 
Hamilton St., Painted Post, N. Y. Triple Cities—George J. Haines, '42, 126 
Laurel Ave., Binghamton, N. Y. NORTH DAKOTA 
William Daner, '53, 1106 So. Highland Acres, Bismarck, North Dakota. 

1 OHIO 
'f, Akron—GeraU Klein, '32, 370 Crestvicw ' Ave., Akron 20, Ohio. Canton—Louis L. Singer, '48, 2745 Cleve­land, N.W., Canton, Ohio. Cincinnati—Raymond W. Gudmens, '47, 863 Tweed Ave., Cincinnati 26, Ohio. .C;e»(!/anrf—Dennis J. P. O'Neill, '51, 1435 
E. 12th St., Cleveland 14, Ohio. 

Columbus—John Cox, '53, 1622 Glenn Ave., Columbus 12, Ohio. i)a}'ton—William W. MacMillan, '52, 917 Richmond Ave., Dayton 5, Ohio. Hamilton—^Jerome A. Ryan, '41, 353 South "D" St., Hamilton, Ohio. Northwestern—^William R. Shanahan, '50, 576 W. Grand Ave., Lima, Ohio. Ohio Valley—Roheit Sincavich, '50, 2079 Louisa Ave., Wheeling, W. Va. Sandusky — Alfred A. Schnurr, Jr., '28, 1101 W. Jefferson St., Sandusky, Ohio. Tiffin—Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Tiffin, Ohio, ro/erfo—Francis Malone, '45, 3237 Ald­ringham, Toledo 6, Ohio. youngstown — R. Griff AUen, '44, 2230 Burma Drive, Youngstown, Ohio. • OKLAHOMA, 
Oklahoma City—Charles McFarland, '39, Rt. 10, Box 616, Oklahoma City, Okla. Tu/ifl—Robert D. Sheehan, '42, 2168 S. Owasso Place, Tulsa, Okla. 
OREGON 

Hugh V. Lacey, Jr., '45, 1308 S.W. Alder St., Portland 5, Ore. 
PENNSYLVANIA 

Central Pennsylvania — William S. Clear, '30, 503 Coleridge Ave., Altoona, Pa. Erie—John S. Young, '51, 3846 Myrtle 
St., Erie, Pa. Harrisburg—Donald R. Meek, '50, 1932 Carlisle Rd., Camp Hill, Pa.' Lehigh Valley—Dr. Louis T. Gabriel, Jr., '36, R.D. 1, Center Valley, Pa. Monongahela Valley—Louis W. .\pone, '41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, Pa. Philadelphia—Walt Grothaus, Jr., '50, 133. Barcladeu Rd., Rosemont, Pa. Pittsburgh — Leo J. Vogel, Jr., '49, 286 Magnolia PI., Pittsburgh, Pa. Scranton—John A. Kramer, '45, 1705 Dela­ware St., Dunmore, Pa. Wilkes-Barre — Ra>Tnond J. Sobota, '49, 760 Miners Bank, \yilkes-Barre, Pa. Williamsport—Frank 'B. Lundy, '56, 1305 Woodmont Ave.', Williamsport, Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN M;\SSACHUSETTS 
Paul Hoeffler, '25, 812 Industrial . Trust Bldg., Providence 3, Rhode Island. 
SOUTH CAROLINA 
George S. Nichols, Jr., '49, 1416 West Palmetto, Florence, S. C. 
TENNESSEE 

CAo«flnoog«—Thomas B. Owen, '35, 4004 Wiley Ave. Memphis—^Joseph Signiago, '48, 945 Colo­nial Rd., Memphis, Tcnn. 
TEXAS 
Dallas—Yl. F. Tehan, '48, 4161 Bcechwood, Dallas, Texas. El Paso-^V/. Gorman Brock, '49, 2319 Tre­mont St., El Paso, Texas. 

Notre Dame 
ffoui/on—Leigfiton F. Young, '37, P.O. Box 2558, Houston, Texas. , Midland-Odessa — John L. Buckley, '38, 2212 Harvard, Midland, Texas. RIO Grande KaHey—Robert Aziz, '49, 1205 
W. Elizabeth, Brownsville, Texas. 

San .4n(onio—Jesse B. Poston, '49, 2833 Roosevelt Ave., San Antonio, Texas. 
UTAH 

Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Kcams Bldg., Salt Lake Citj-, Utah. 
VIRGINIA 

Charles A. LaFratta, '47, 2707 Lincoln, Richmond, Va. Tidewater — Philip L. Russo, '49, 8107 Wedgewood Drive, Norfolk, Va. 
WASHINGTON 

Spokane—^William L. Wolter, '35 (vice­pres.), 414 W. 29th .•\ve., Spokane, Wash. IfM(ern—Bernard J. Lenoue, '33, 914 21st 
.•\ve. No., Seattle, Wash. 
^VEST VIRGINIA 

George W. Thompson, Jr., '41, 5104 Staun­ton Ave. S.E., Charleston, W. Va. Centra/—John D. Julian, '40, P.O. Box 2063, Clarksburg, W. Va. 
y ^VISCONSIN 

Fox River Valley—Patrick F. Coughlin, '50, n o S. Oneida St., Appleton, Wis. Green Bay—Joseph A. Neufeld, '44, Box 17, Green Bay, Wis. LaCrojre—Henry C. Funk, '50, 328 N. 26th Place, LaCrosse, Wis. AfernV/-Augustus H. Stange, 102 S. Pros­pect, Merrill, Wis. Milwaukee—^James A. Byrne, '40, 617 No. 13th St., Mihvaukee, Wis. Northwest Wisconsin—C. T. Downs, '33, 311^4 So. Farwell St., Eau Claire, Wis. South Central—Thomas W. Frost, '30, 115 Ely PI., Madison, Wis. Southeastern—Walter McDermott, '45, 839 63rd PI., Kenosha, Wis. 
HAWAH 

Harry A. Medeiros, '53, 424 Niu St., .•\pt. .Vl, Honolulu 15, Hawaii. 
FOREIGN CLUBS 

Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C, '24 (key man), Moreau House, 28 Zin­dabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. 
Canarfa—Paul H. LaFramboise, '34, 400 Charest Blvd., Quebec, Canada. Manila—John F. Gotuaco, '24, 1316 Penn­sylvania, Manila, Philippines. Mexico City — Telmo DeLandero, '37, Eugenio Sue 220, Mexico City. Panama—William J. Sheridan, '34, Box 98, Balboa Heights, Canal Zone. Peru—^Andres Malatcsta, '23, Cailloma 376, Lima, Peru, South i'lmerica. Puerto Rico—^Juan Cintron, '40, Box 668, Hato Rey, Puerto Rico. 
Rome — Vincent G. McAloon, '34 .(key man). Hotel .-Micomi, Via Scossaca\-alli 11, Rome, Italy. 
FOURTH QUARTER RALLY FOR THE 
15th ANNUAL ALUMNI FUND 
MOREAU SEMINARY 

It's the '4th quarter' and a contribution from each and every alumnus is necessary if the University is going to sponsor one-third of the cost of the new $3,000,000 Moreau Seminar}^ 
Your gift, in any amount, will be credited to: 
ir 15th Annual Alumni Fund 
(including football ticket preference for 1958) 
'k Moreau Seminary 'k Faculty Development Fund ^ Notre Dame Foundation k Your Graduating Class ^ Your Alumni Club 
Contributions should be made payable to the University of Notre Dame and mailed to the Alumni Office, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November, 19S7 
Akron 
The Club held a general ntcetmg on August 13, 1957. Plans'were set in motion for a "Freshman Night" party as a send-off for local students be­ginning their freshman year this fall. These stu­dents and their fathers were the guests of the Club at a bufTet dinner on Tuesday, Sept. 10: JAMES D. BURDEN, JA.MES D. DETTLIXG, JAMES P. EV,\NS, ROBERT B. FR,\SER, BER­NARD E. HOGAN, JR., MICft\EL E. KILLIAN, JOSEPH G. O'GURCHAK, WILLIAM T. PARKER, CHRIS A. VANDEVERE and FRED­ERICK J. WEIGAND. Guest speaker was Mr. PAT CANNY, our Alumni .Association President. The party included a showing of the beautiful new fuH-color film, "Notre Dame." Co-chairmen GEORGE DEK,\N-Y and FR.\NK STEEL handled all the arrangements. 
Under President GERRY KLE1.X the Club has staged a football excursion to the Campus for the Pittsburgh game on October 26. A block of tickets was secured and charter transportation a la Grey­hound was provided at a nominal cost. The com­mittee, chairmaned by Vice Pres. BOB K.AP1SH included: GEORGE DEKANY, HUGH COLOPY, FRANK STEEL, BILL O'NEILL, JACK FER­RICK, TO.M \VEIG.\ND, LARRY SUTTER, GERRY .McDERMOTT, D,\N MOTZ, BOB KOLB, JOHN KEEHNER, JACK HUMMEL, JOHN DARAGO, TOM BOTZUM, TOM REY­MANN, CHARLIE GREEN, STE\'E SITKO, JIM WALTER, BILL LAMMERS and BOB HUD­DLESTON. 
—D.\N MOTZ, '54, Sec}-. 
Baltimore 
The Baltimore Club sponsored a Universal Notre Dame Night with a dance and gct-logelhcr at the Knights of Columbus Ballroom in Baltimore. The afTair was very well attended. 
•At that time the folloiving o3ccrs were inau­gurated for the coming year: 
FR^VNK M. S;\NDER^\, '34. President. 
DR. BRYCE SMITH, M5, Vice-President. 
FRANCIS HERB, '37, Treasurer. 
JOSEPH DUKERT, '51, Secrctar>-. 
DON KELLETT; of the Baltimore Colls, was the guest speaker at the first fall meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Baltimore. At the same meeting, plans were discussed for the special train lo the Notre Dame-.Army game in Philadelphia. 
PAT PUTNAM has been transferred from Bal­timore to the Washington oflice of the FBI, but a new member was added to the local club in the person of JERRY SULLIVAN, '41, who has moved here from New York. 
MURRAY WIEMAN, the club's 1956-57 presi­dent, was welcomed back after being hospitalized for about four months following an auto accident. 
—JOSEPH >.L DUKERT, Seo". 
Boston 
Our Annual Picnic Outing was held on June 30 at CHARLIE CROWLEY's ('22) beautiful estate in Millis and was a huge success. CHUCK POW­ERS, '45, was Chairman of this affair and was ably assisted bv BILL DACEY, '49, BOB S.AYERS, '50, JACK CONNELL, '53, LOU DiGIOVANNI, '49, and BILL STEWART, '43. Tlie principal reason for the big success of this annual outing is the generosity of the Crowleys, not only for the use of their grounds and home, but also for their unselfish attention and time devoted to making it a happy day for all there. Tlic swimming pool was the main center of attraction, although some of the men, boys, and a few girls managed to get out in the field and play a Softball game. HARRY MARR, '37, was almost bombed off the mound by the sound hitting of the opponents although we must admit his support was weak. Bill Daccy at third, played like MALZONE did last year. JOE GARGAN, '53, made two excellent "Jim Piersall" catches for the opponents which didn't help our side either. Needless to say, we all had a lot of laughs and noticed that we surely slowed down since Notre Dame days. 
Charlie got his tractor out. hitched an open cart to it, and took all the children for a scenic ride around his estate. 
A scholarship fund drive has been under way and closed Oct. 1. BILL McCORMICK, '47, was Chairman of this Campaign and was ably sup­ported by a host of Alumni. We are quite happy about this drive, even though it is the first "Cam­paigned" effort ever conducted by our Club. 
The Annual Freshman Dinner was held on Sept. 5 at the Fresh Pond Restaurant in Cambridge. Charlie Murphy, '49, was Chairman of this affair. We had Artie Gore, former National League tmi­pirc, and Father Frank Gartland, Editor of "Catho­lic Bo/* Magazine, as guest speakers. The new "Notre Dame'* film was shown, and the new fresh­men were introduced to Jim Brennan, president of the undergrad New England Club. 
The Annual Victor>- Dance was held on Oct. 26 as we went to press, at the M.I.T. Faculty Club in Cambridge. Joe Clancy, '50, Is Chairman of this Dance which was very successful last year. 
On Dec. 8 wc will hold our Annual Communion Breakfast with John Hickcy, '44, acting as Chair­man. Wc arc tentatively planning on following this up In January- with a retreat, details of which will follow later. 
Last, but not least, my wife, Joyce, gave birth to a lovely baby girl, Peggy Kathleen, on June 19, which now gives us three cheer leaders and a basketball prospect. 
—DICK HYLAND, '50, Secy. 
BufFalo 
After its usual summer hiatus, the Notre Dame Club of Buffalo's first fall meeting was September 
5. President FRANK G.AGLIONE reported to the directors on the events that took, place during the summer. Namely, the Golf Party championship, won by DAN SHEEDY for the second consecutive year. Dan received the Mary A. Quinn Memorial Trophy. .\fAURY QUINN, who finished second, had a tough break pla>-ing the wrong ball. He was given a two-stroke penalty, olhenvise the match would have ended in a tie. Chairman of 

Club Calendar 
Regularly scheduled club meetings that have been reported to the Alumni Office are as follows: 
BUFFALO—First Tuesday of evci7 month at 8:30 p.m.. Hotel Shera­ton, 715 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, 
N. Y. In addition, a table marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" is reserved for lunch at 
K. of C, 506 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 
CENTRAL OHIO—First Monday (night) of ever)' month. Junior Rose Room, Virginia Hotel, Co­lumbus, Ohio. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—First Wednesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High Street, Perth Amboy, N. J. 
CHICAGO—First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12:15 p.m.. Western Society of Engineers Club, 84 E. Randolph, Chicago. 
ERIE—First Friday dinner meeting with wives. Antler's Restaurant, 
7:00 p.m., Sept. thni Jime, Erie, Pa. 
FORT LAUDERDALE — Second Thursday of each month, dinner, at 7:30 p.m., Governor's Club Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
NEW JERSEY—Informal monthly luncheon at Kelly's Seafood Res­taurant in downtown Newark, first Friday of each month. 
OKLAHOMA CITY—First Mon­day of each month, night, check McFarland's Drive-In Theatre, Oklahoma City, Okla., for details. 
Notre 
PHILADELPHIA —Second Tues­day of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club, Philadelphia, Pa. 
PITTSBURGH—Weekly luncheon at the Variety Club, Thursday, in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, Pitts­burgh, Pa., at 12 noon. 
ROCHESTER—Monthly luncheon, first Monday, at 12:00 noon, 38, Powers Hotel, Rochester, N. Y. (If this is a holiday, meeting is held on second Monday.) 
ST. LOUIS — Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 noon. Key Club in Hotel Jefferson, St. Louis, Mo., second Monday of each month. 
WASHINGTON —Weekly lunch­eon, each Tuesday, 12 noon, Touchdo^vn Club, 1414 I Street N.W., Washington, D. C. 

the Golf Party %vas BUZ PHEIL. The Siag Outing was held at Cook's Paradise Grove last July. A incrr>* time was had bv all. Chairmen xvcre DICK KLEE and AL KE.\INITZER. 
Noire Dame Varsity Head Basketball Coacli JOHN JORDAN helped inaugurate our first fall meeting which Iionorcd new Notre Dame students and their fathers, as well as undergraduates. On September 12, FATHER JOHN aWANAUGH u-as in BulTalo to mrel with the Foundation Drive rep­resentatives. A dinner and reception is being planned. 
Chairmen for the Noiic Dame-.-\rniy football ex­cursion, as annciuncrd bv General Chairman TONY ROCCO: Game Tickets. FRANK GAGUONE; Publicitv, JOHN DOERR; Advertising, JOSEPH WATSON; Railrtiad Coordinator, MAURY QUINN; Game Ticket Dt-pou^. JOHN BOL/\ND; Hotel Accommodations. JACK LeVIGNE. A com­plete weekend in New York, highlighted by the football game, was offered to alumni and friends of Noire Dame from Wcslem New" York. 
Club members are behind this event 100 per cent because it will help sustain the Notre Dame Club of Buffaloes Scholarship Fund at Notre Dame. 
—TONY ROCCO, M9, Sccj-. 

Columet Region 
The club held a Golf Slag Tuesday, August 13, at the Cressmoor Country' Club, Hobart, Indiana. Calumet clubber; and guests golfed from noon right up to dinner. 
Chicago 
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago held its an­nual golf tournament and dinner ^fonday, Sept. 9, at the Elmhurst Country- Club- THOMAS D. NASH, JR., was chairman of the event, whidt featured a steak dinner for Notre Dame men and guests, free greens fees, courtesy of FRED SNITE, SR., and free liquid refreshment, ' courtesy of JACK MORLEY, '35. 
Central New Jersey 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Central New Jersey held its observance of Universal Notre Dame Night on May 4 at the Knights of Columbus Home in Perth .\mboy. TONY GIUFFRE as cliairman did a bang-up job with the assistance of JACK RE.\GER and GIL AUGUSTINE. W. BERNARD HARRINGTON was toastmastcr and Introduced FATHER THO.MAS CUNXINGHA.M of Seton Hall University, who delivered an inspiring talk and pointed out the need for leadership by our Catholic university alumni. The 150 alumni, wives and friends who attended concluded the evening with dancing and a buffet supper. 
Since this was the first such affair in this area in ten years its success was most encouraging and foretells increasing acti\*iiy on the part of the alumni in Central New Jerscj'. 
The annual Freshman Welcome was held Septem­ber 4 at the Knights of Columbus Home in Perth Ambov. 
—JOHN J. DOYLE, Sec^-. 

Central New York 
A record number of students leaving for 'the' 1957-58 term at the University were j principals at the annual student sendofT party September 11 sponsored by Notre Dame alumni in the area. TIic party offered a chance for students and their fathers to meet with alumni just prior to de­parture. 
Tills year's affair was licld al the Bcllcvue Coun­tr>' Club and included a golf party in the after­noon and a roast beef dinner in the evening. The new sound and color film, "Notre Dame," narrated by Joe Boland, was shown. 
Notre Dame has accepted 262 freshmen from 

BOSTON—Jim O'Dt^, '44, was honored by the Boston alumni >vith a reception and dinner after his election as District Attorney of Aliddlescx County. Seated at the table arc Jim, left, and Senator John Kennedy of ^Iassachusetts. Standing, left to right: John Moran, *30, Bill O'Brien, '44, and Neil Fowler, '47. 
Net** York State this fall. Tills Is almost double the 133 New York graduates of last June. The Central New York area is represented by 29 fresh­men and 35 upper classmen. 
DAN KELLEY of FayciieviHe and H. PHILIP SHE/\N of DcAVitt, club president, were in charge of rescn'alions for the event. 
The Central New York Club also arranged a chartered bus tour to the Notre Dame-Army foot­ball game in Philadelphia. PAUL HICKEY of Syracuse was chairman of the tour. 
Cincinnati 
At the regular meeting of June 12, 1957, the (oUowing new officers were elected: 
RAY GUD.MENS, '47, President. 
STEVE HEEKIN, '50, Vicc-Presidem. 
JOHN McCORMICK, '48, Sccretan.-. 
ROCKNE MORRISSEY, 'M, Treasurer. 

At the meeting held at the Wiedemann Roof Garden, the graduating seniors from the Cincinnati area were welcomed into the club. 
On Saturday, June I, the new Notre Dame color movie was shown on Cincinnati Television Station WLW-TV and received a fine response from all members and friends. 
An ^executive -meeting,, held July 2, 1957, was attended by"'officers, the board of directors and. .the scltolarship committee. AL CASTELLINI gave 'a report of the June niecltng of Scholarship Directors held at the University. 
A picnic meeting was held September 10 at Pine Ridge Lodge, Mt. AIr>- Forest. All new freshmen from the greater Cincinnati area and their fathers were honor guests. 
The club sponsored a raffle of two expense-paid­trips to the Army game with a week-end in New York City. The drawing was held at the regular meeting of October 1,- held at the Vernon ifanor Hotel. 
President Ray Gudmcns has named Steve Heckin to be general chairman of the I2th Annual Schol­arship Ball to be held Christmas week at the Nctherland Hilton. 
—JOHN F. McCORMICK, Secy. 

Cleveland 
Tiic comfortably air-conditioned Hotel Cleveland was the site of the summer dance, the evening of July 13. With LEO BURBY as clioirman, and the students cooperating fully, the event was a grand success. It Is hoped that an annual affair will result. 
Tlic golf party at Elyria Country Club on August 29 again proved to be a good day for all. DICK PEJE/\N and JERRY McGR/VTH arc tak­ing care of the arrangements, assisted bv JOHN CHAPLA, 
We again wish to remind club members of the First Friday Club. Members (and friends) attend noon Mass (12:10} at St. John's Cathedral and meet for an informal lunch afterward. Tills project started slowly In June and has been gaining in enthusiasm monthly. 
IGNATIUS "IGGY'* McLVH'RE has organized a Parent-Student Committee with the aim of en­couraging the parents of students to participate In local activities. The interest generated in the summer dance proved very gratifying. 
MARRIED: KARL MARTERSTECK, JR., and Terr>- Hanlon; JOHN REIDY and Carol Van Rooy; TOM CORRIGAN and Pegg>- Nauman; MATT WEY and Rose Marie DeFranco. 
A few of the clxss of 2957 %vbo have started on promising business careers and of whom we are aware arc: PHIL HEIL vvith Ernst and Ernst; RAY L. MILLER with Chevrolet, Cleveland; BILL JOLLY with Republic Steel, BERNIE SCHORLE with Monsanto Chemical, Dayton. JIM EGGERS and TOM O'.MALLY will start Medical School at Loyola University. Chicago. 
Wc believe It note^vorthy that DENNIS J. O'NEILL, SR., delivered the commencement ad­dress at St. ifary's of the Woods, Terrc Haute, this past June. 
—TOM McHALE, Secy. 

Dollas 
The Notre Dame Women's Auxiliary* held a bar­becue supper at the Casa Linda Lodge July 20. A pleasant evening was had by the 40 couples who attended. Mrs. JAKE REICHENSTEIN %vas In charge of the affair. 
LANK SMITH, »50, has left the District Attor­nc>''5 office and Is now with one of Dallas' most prominent law firms. Turner, White. Atwood, 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November, 1957 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—The speakers' table for the observance of UND Night included, left to right: (standing) John Doyle, secre­tary; William Dunhani, vice-president; W. Harrington, toastniaster; Father Cunningham; Gilbert Augustine, dub president; James Cole­man, vice-president; (seated) Mrs. John Doyle, Mrs. \V. Harrington, Mrs. Gilbert Augustine and Mrs. James Coleman. 
McLani: and Francis. We fed sure Lank will be adding Iiis name ta that list very shortly. 
ERVIN T. FLEMING, '25, vice-president of Fleming & Sons, passed away in July. His loss will be deeply felt not only by the members of the family but by the community and club as well. 
RICHARD J. BAKER, '35, president of W. A. Green Company, recently spoke to the Xorth Texas Chapter of the American Marketing /Vssociation on trading stamp premiums as a marketing tool. Ifc -graduated from the Xotre Dame School of Commerce. 
PETE WACKS, *30y resigned as assistant to the president of Chance Vaught to accept a very promising position with Bell Aircraft in Buffalo. 
JOHX MOR/VN, '36, h no longer with Watson Associates, but has formed his own public relations firm with offices in the National Bank Building. John has been vcr^* active in all club activities and has done a very competent job on all our pub­licity needs. 
Our club Chaplain, RT. REV. MSGR. WIL­LIAM F. 0*BRIEN, celebrated his 40th anniversary to the priesthood on June 2. 
TIM KELLEY, M8, prominent local attorney, was chaitman of the arrangements for the Red Mass said in Fort Worth during the Bar Associa­tion's annual meeting. Bishop Nold of Galveston was celebrant. Tim will also play host to the State Junior Bar /Association of Texas on "the weekend of the SMU-Xotre Dame game. 
FRtVNK FINN, '49, was recently elected secre­tary* to the Dallas Junior Bar /Association. Frank was a well known debater at X'otrc Dame and, like "Hm Kelley, is currently with Thompson, Knight, Wright and Simmons. 
WALTER FLEMING, '40, past president of the club and well known industrialist, took his daugh­ter to Mayo's last spring for a major operation. Prayers for the recovcrj* of his daughter, Carolyn, will be greatly appreciated. TIic club is having Mass said at Holy Trinity Churcli, 8:00 a.m., August 20. 
—HEXRY XEUHOFF III, Secy. 

Dearborn 
A general meeting of the N'otre Dame Club of Dearborn %vas held /August 16 at the home of CLE.\t COXST/VXTIXE. There was a short busi­ness meeting, followed by a showing of the new campus moWe. A social hour followed. 
The club gathered /August 23' at the Buresh Funeral home to recite the Rosar>- for Jim Sarb, departed brother of Past President JERRY SARB. 
Detroit 
Fifty-one couples have pleasant memories of the Club's Swimming and Beer Picnic-Songfest held /August I. This was the second of the Club's four "low-cost extra" affairs to be held this year in addition to the regular ten sponsored by the Club. 
President EDW/ARD G/AOE and the Club's Board of Directors appointed a committee of five Direc­tors and one 1957 graduate to plan these four activities aimed at the Post-War graduates and also to act as a liaison committee with the Detroit student club on the campus. 
Tlie committee is co-headed by D/AN BRADLEY and BILL /AXHUT and includes PETE KERN/AN, ED ROXEY, JR., and TOM VERBEIST. The 1957 graduate is in the process of being chosen. 
This committee's next affair was a *'Hard Times" Halloween Bam Dance Oct. 19, while the Club's regular activities in early Fall included the "Friend­ly Foes Kick-Off Party" in September and two football trips in October and November. 
—LOU CONROY, Seo'. 

The /Annual Xotre Dame Golf Stag Party took place June 18 and was the biggest, grandest golfing excursion yet in the htstor>* of the X'otrc Dame Club of Detroit. Out of 145 who attended golfing and dinner, all but six were awarded a gift, either golfing trophy or door prize. 
TOM SHEEHAX and JOHX P.ANELLI shot in the 70's. The annual golf award went to TOM M/ARTIX for an even 80 gross. (Sheehan and Panelli had won trophies prior to this year and could not repeat themselves.) 
The guest speakers were Father Tom O'Donncll, ED KR/AUSE, and Coach J/ACK ZILLY. 
A grand time was had by all. The perpetual golfing cup remains in the hands of Mr. ^fartin till the next golfing season. 
Tliirty-fivc graduating seniors from the Detroit area were guests of the club at the function. —JOHX P.ANELLI 
Evansville 
The Notre Dame Club of Evansville adopted the following program of affairs for this yean 
1.
 Pre-football season Smoker, held on Sep­tember 19, 1937. 

2.
 Breakfast on Our Lady's Sunday, December 8, 1957. 

3.
 Annual Holiday Party on January II, 1958. . 

4.
 Universal Xotre "Dame Night, /April 14, 1958. 



Ac a general membership meeting of the club held on July IS it was decided that it would be desirable to have an Executive Committee to pro­vide a continuity of direction for the club. After discussing this matter it was determined that the past four presidents of the dub should serve in this capacity. Consequently the past four presidents who arc BOB HARGRAVE, BILL HEXXESSEY, ED MATTHEWS and FRED DEWES were selected as the members of the Executive Committee for the current year. 
—R. E. JOHXSOX, Secy.-Treas. 

Fort Lauderdale 
The Xotre Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale met on July II, 1957, at the Governors' Club Hotel for its regular monthly meeting. Five new associate members were elected to membership and three Xotre Dame graduates became members upon ap­plication. The members elected were BOB VAX DORPE, BUD HUFFMAN, ROGER McGRATH, ROY GORE and JOE BURKE. Xotre Dame grad­uates admitted to membership upon application were FR^ANK CAREY, DR. JACKSO-X and TOM WALKER. 
This meeting was a closed meeting for men only. 

A steak dinner with Pinot Noir %vine was en­
joyed by all. 
—GEORGE GORE, Secy. 

Fort Wayne 
The /Annual Stag Picnic of the Fort ^Vayne Club took place September II at the Robinson Park Pavilion, Fort Wayne. The order of the day included plenty of athletics, cards and refresh­ments, all free. 
CHICAGO—This was the gathering at the first Annual Testimonial Dinner given for the retiring officers and board members of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago by the new officers and board. It was held in the headquarters of the Chicago Athletic Association. 
The Club arranged a sliovvini; of IIIL- new Notre Dame color film St-pl. 7 on Slation WKJG-TV. 
Houston 
TIic following (July elcclfd oflicers of the Club 

have taken office for the 1957-59 term: President, LEIGHTOX F, VOUNG, '37. Vicc-Prcstdeni, HUGH J. RAFFERT\', '49. Secrctan.% LEO E. LINBECK, JR., '56. Treasurer, EDWARD J. POWERS, '43. Current directors of the Club arc: To 1960—THO.XfAS F. GREEN, JR., '27. To 1959—LAWRENCE J. KELLEY, '42. To 1958—R. CONROY SCOGGINS, '24. 
—DONALD F. O'BRIEN, Immediate Past Prcs. 

Indianapolis 
TOM MATEY, '53. retired the club's P. C. REILLY Memorial Trophy with his third victory* in the annual club golf tournament at Hillcrcst Country Club July 25. Second-place honors and the FRANK LEAHY Trophv went to LARRY SEXTON, '33. 
Some 113 members and their guests played golf, with 35 more joining them for dinner. Guests included Arclibishop Paul C. Schultc of Indian­apolis, MOOSE KRAUSE, BERNIE CRIMMLNS and representatives of the Athletic Departments at Butler, Indiana and Purdue Universities. GEORGE USHER, '45, was cliairman. 
DICK McXAMARA, '54, cbairmancd the club beer bust June 26 at McNamara's Two Gaits Farm. About 125 club members attended. 
Arranging the family picnic was JACK ELDER, '30. It was scheduled for September 1. —JOE HERRINGTON, '50 
Kansas City 
Although summer is usually a time for rest and relaxation, tlic Kansas City Club has been hard at it in preparation of iioming events and also has held difTcrent events through the summer. 
On May 18, the Club sponsored the showing of the film **NoIre Dame." a new technicolor film showing the Notre Dame campus and student life. The film was shown on a local TV station, WD.\F-TV. Announcements were made through the various newspapers so that all high school and sr^de scliool students could lake this oppor­tunity to see Notre Dame life. 
On June 8, the student-sponsored picnic was held at the Xigro farm outside of Kansas City. This event was attended by approximately 100, with stu­dents, alumni, and their friends taking part. 
On July 1, the final selection of the ASIlliam Rockhill Nelson Scliolarsliip winner was made. Preceding the final interviews, the club officers met and had dinner with the three judges at the Kansas Citv Club. The three judges are: MR. H. GAVIN LEERY. President, Federal Reserve Bank, Kansas City; MR. E. P. MITCHELL, Laxvyer. and DR. JOHN H. MA\TR, JR. 
The intcr\"icws were held at the general offices of the Whitaker Cable Corporation in North Kansas City. Four finalists were selected from a field ol twcnty-«ix applicants, and winner an­nounced Is RA'S'MOND T. HURLEY. JR., of Kansas City, who plans to enter the College of Engineering. 
The summer highlight of the Clubs activities was held on Monday evening, August 5, when the annual Alumni picnic u-as held. Tlic event was held this year at the Red Barn Restaurant. With approximately 100 people present, they feasted on baHjecued ham. beef, and all the trimmings, as well as a sufficient supply of beer. A singing bartender, helped out by a stalwart chorus of alumni, added enioyment to the evening's festivities. 
Perhaps the greatest effort put forth during' the summer in the manual labor department was that of the students on the weekend of August 3. when a fleet of trucks and drivers, made up almost entirely of students, canvassed the city in search of scrap paper. Although this was the first undertaking of this t^*pe ever sponsored by the students, it met with success. Postcards had been sent out some weeks earlier warning residents that they should not get rid of their papers, but to keep them. Although at this writing we don't have a financial stat-ment as to the profit made, wc arc sure that it was a success. 
On September 5, apDroximatcIy 100 students and alumni gathered for the Club's annual *'Freshman Send-ofT Dinner." The event was held in Wolfer-man's Empire Room on the Country Club Plaza. HERB ZIEGLER and BUD MASSMAN co-chair­maned the affair, which was highlighted by the showing of the film *'Notre Dame" and "Football Highlights of 1956." Tlie Scholarship winner, Ray Hurley, was also introduced, and all the new incoming frcslvmcn and their fathers as well. In all, there are about 18 new freshmen from the Kansas City area this year. Words of wisdom and advice were passed along to the new men by the Alumni Club president, ED AYLWARD, and the Campus Club president, BOB MASSMAN. Plans were also announced for the annual football trip, this year to the .N*a\y game. RUSS FARRELL and BOB METZLER are running the affair, which should be a big success. 
Other plans In the making of the Kansas City Club Include the annual Christmas Dance and the Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, both of which arc to be held In December. 
—JOHN T. MxVSS.MAN, Secy. 

Kentucky 
The Notre Dame Club of Kentucky sponsored a Retreat at the Abbey of Gethsemanl. Gethscmani, Ky., on May 18. 1957. FR..\NK BLOEMER gave a report to the Club, describing the Retreat and the attendance. All felt the Retreat was very successful. 
The quarterly Communion Sunday was held on June 9, 1957, at St. Marx- .Magdalene Church. Tlie attendance of students and alumni was very gratifying. Our pastor, FATHER HOMMERICH, **-as transferred and has been replaced bv FATHER RODIN. 
Our annual Dinner Meeting was held at the RIcIimond Boat Club on June 20. 1957. Special guests Included FATHERS LUBBERS and CVR­RICO. Chairman RON MAZZOLI Is to be con­gratulated on such a fine affair. 
On June 23 the Corpus Christ! Procession was held at Churcliill Downs. The Club marched as a group under our banner. 
JOE HARMON, JR., Cliairman of the Notre Damc-Xavicr Alumni Club Summer Outing, July 13, said he had many favorable comments on the enjoyable time had by all at the outing. 
FATHER BOB GRAY was welcomed to the 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November, 1957 
Club at t}ie July meeting. He was made tlie 
Club's oflicial cliaplain. 
OTTO MILETI lias been transferred to Houstnn, Texas. Our loss is the Houston Club's gain. Good hick, Otto! 
On September I we sponsored our third Quar­terly Communion Breakfast at St. Mar>- ^^agdalene Church. Father Gray said the Mass. 
—JOE BOWLING, Secy. 
Los Angeles 
The Annual Club Picnic was held again this year at the St. Vincent dc Paul Summer Camp. /\s usual it was a family affair. There ^vas fun for all at the playgrounds, picnic benches, swimming pool, baseball diamond, etc. 
TIic Annual Retreat took place September 6, 7 and 8 at the Manrcsa Retreat Ifousc in /\zusa. 
Nfany alumni signed up for an organized trip to the Notre Damc-Anny game in Philadelphia. The excursion was of more than two weeks dura­tion and look in several attractions across the U. S. 
Lehigh Valley 
The Notre Dame Club of the Lehigh Valley was most honored to have \tr. and Afrs. ^VILLLVM \VA15H of the .Votrc Dame Coaching Staff as their dinner guests on June 22 and Bill's review of the football team given at (he meeting that fol­lowed was enjoyed by all. Tlic Club was also pleased to have several other guests at the meeting that evening, consisting of local celebrities and future students of the University. 
The annual Family Picnic for the Club was held on August 24 and a good time was had by all. D.-WE LANGLEY (Chairman), BOB STR.\UB, JOHN SLMITZ and TOM LENNON ser\ed as the Picnic Conimittcc and our thanks to them for an excellent job. Incidentally, the recent Alumni and Students did not fare any better this year than last in the annual ball game with the Veteran .Mumni. 
Tlie Club is very pleased with its accomplish­ments to date, particularly since it has only been active again for a period of one year. Several major events have been sponsored, including a group trip to the Army-Notrc Dame Game. Al­though many have contributed to the success of these actinties, we arc particularly proud of our President, DR. LOUIS T. GABRIEL, and appre­ciate his outstanding leadership to date. 
—LOU \V'\'NNE, Secy. 
Manila 
We had a lovely gathering of the Notre Dome Alumni last July 11 in which there were twenty-five (25) old and young alumni in our get-together dinner at the Swiss Inn here in Manila. It was really a renewal of acquaintances between the young and the old ranging from the graduates of 1922 to the graduates of 1957. We bad the elec­tions after the dinner and the result is the follow­ing: President, MR. JOHN GOTUACO, '24; Vice-President, MR. MARCOS B. ROCES; Secrclarv-Treasurer, MR. CONR.\DO S.VNCHEZ, JR., and the chaplain is yours truly. I did not know that there were four (4) priests who graduated from Notre Dame and so I was not the lone candidate for the chaplainc>'. The induction of officers which was at the same time a farewell party for the new students at Notre Dame, look place in llie middle of August. Tliis was a bigger affair, at­tended by friends of the Notre Dame alumni. We shall be interested in any work which is at pres­ent being recommended to the alumni association. 
—(MSGR.) OS.MONDO A. a\LIP, Chaplain 
Miami 

Tlic Annual Notre Dame Picnic was held August 10 at Crandon Park Cabanas. Tlie family affair featured barbecued ribs, hamburgers and hot dogs on the menu, plus plenty of beer and soft drinks. There %vere a record number of collapses on the ball diamond, proving that the N.D. Club of Greater Miami needs younger ball players or more physicians. 
Michigan City 

On Tliursday. August 8, 1957, our club held our annual "Irish Greens Party." The event was held at the Municipal course and was well attended. 
Chairman DR. ROBERT FROST, '40, again was able to secure the services of Mr. Mlcliael Joseph, the rotund chef of the S64.(X)0 Question fame. You may remember that Mr. Joseph completed the $16,000 plateau, his category* being diets. 
The dinner was far from food prescribed for any dier. Tfic menu included delicious barbecued chicken, wild rice and chef's salad with tasty apple pic for dessert. 
Although the duffers outnumbered the golfers, the prizes were to be distributed in a fair drawing. After it was over there wxs some doubt. Here's what happened. 
DES MOINES—Presentation of the "Man of the Year" award was a highlight of the Des Moines Club's first UND Night. Club President R. M. Cannon and Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., look on as Man of the Year Arthur T. GomUcy reads the inscription on his plaque. 
Notre Dame 
The first prize of 48 cans of beer went to MR. SALLY KROL, a guest who also happens to own a local liquor store. Second prize of golf balls was a^vflrded to BILL PRIEBE, *53, a non-golfer, while the third prize of $1.00 was given to DR. C. W. KOLf\NCZYK, '33, who had previously stated that he W'as actually donating his entr>- fee without anticipation of ^vinnlng. 
The club's fall piogram included a football train trip to the Purdue game. JOHN A. KELLY, JR., '25, was in cliargc of arrangements. 
—DONALD F. \VENTL.\ND, '51, Sec%-. 

Milwaukee 
The Milwaukee Club's first big activity, under the direction of its new officers headed by DR. JAMES BYRNE, '40, \vas a very successful golf stag outing held at the Port Washington Country-Club on August 8. Vice-President RAY SULLI­VAN, '50, served as chairman of the event iviih the very capable help of R^\Y DWYER and WALT SCHNEIDER. For the second year in a row. Duffer BOB ROLF copped the Notre Dame Club Traveling Trophy with his low score of 85. AVALT SCHNEIDER and BOB McL.\UGHLIN pocketed the closest-to-pin prizes. HAROLD GOTTSACKER was awarded the prize for the longest drive of the 
day; he was quite proud of his 41 score for the front nine. AVinncr of Blind Bocev prizes were JOHN SCHWINN, ED McCVRTHV, ROGER PAULSEN. BILL WISE, BOB SCHACHT, and PAUL V/\NDENBERG. Bob ifcLaughlln proved to be the worst estimator of his coifing ability and thereby was given the Blind Bogey *'booby prize." Many attractlx'c door prizes were pre­sented by City Foundation Chairman. JIM Ci\SPER and club secretary. JOHN M^VNION. 
Tlirough the efforts of Chairman JOE MESEC, a vcr>' successful family picnic was held in Mil­\%*aukce*s beautiful Greenfield Park on Sunday, September I. Games for the many children In at­tendance were enthusiastically enjoyed and quite a few of the **oid grads" proved their physical prowess. 
—JOHN F. MANION, Sec>-­

New Jersey 
The new officers of the club, as elected at the Golf and Dinner at the Glen Ridge Country Club June 18, are as follows: 
President, R.WMOND TROY. 
Vice-President. JOHN F. KELLY. 
Secretary. WLLIAM KIRCHNER. 
Treasurer. PHIL SANDMAIER. 
Directors (2). PHILIP SHERID^VN and JOHN 

SAND. xVs one means' of maintaining the high degree of interest and activity generated under last year's excellent club leadership, a program of monthly Executive Committee meetings, attended by officers and directors, has been instituted by president RAY TROY, '34. It is honed that these informal gath­erings will provide an opportunity for the inter­chani^c of Ideas and sugt^estlons for future club actiWties and that they will serve as a more work­able means of handling the preliminary* planning which is required for such affairs. Meetini;s of this character were held on July 18 and August 13. the first devoted largely to famil­iarizing the Executive Committee members with all aspects of the Association's business and the estab­lishment of an agenda for the year. The first activity for the new year •was the annual Frcshmnn Welcome, held on Tuesday, September 10. In the Ballroom of Xrwark's Robert Treat Hotel at 8 o.m. JOHN FAGIN, chairman, and JACK BARRY, co-chairman, made the evening both enjoyable and helpful for the appro:<dmately 100 new frcshm'-n from New Jersey and their ituests. Tlie hitrhlight of the evrninc was the ap­nearancc of JIM ARMSTRONG, '25. National .Secretary, and the latest film on Notre Dame. Re­freshments were scrx'ed. At the suggestion of JOHN KELLY, '40, the club has inaugurated an informal monthly luncheon iiathering for members who care to and are able to get together. The luncheons, presently sched­uled for noon on First Friday's at Kelly's (no rela­tion, we're assured!) Seafood Restaurant in do\vTi­town Newark has thus far proved successful and ^vell-receivcd. Tlic club secretary has been Instructed to pursue 
the possibility of comoillng a state alumni directory which, it is felt, might be useful to the members. Tills year the •annual football excursion was to Philadelphia on October 12 for the Army game. —W. L. KIRCHNER, JR., Secy. 
The Loni; Inland Golf Outing xvas held on August successful undertaken by the CInb. This year wc New Mexico 29, at the Huntington Crescent Club. JOHN hope to surpass it. DUFFY and DON HANRAHAN led the Long —BUD .MUL\'EY, Secy. The Xolrc Daun; Chtb of Nmv Mexico held its Island dufTers over hill and dale with the able as­
clvctioii mvctinj; Monday. July 15. at llie Newman sistance of GORDON FORRESTER, HAY The annual kickofT meeting, a warm-up stag for CenliT. Univer>ilv of Nev*' Mexico. The newly BUSHEV, TONY F-ARLEY and GEORGE OL-the 1957 fiKdball season, was held September II at elected officers of the club are: VANY , just to mention a few. the tap KMim «{ Rupprrl's Brewer>-. Besides free President, GEOKGE (SKIP) SCHREIBER. MI. pretzels and popcorn, music and. of course, beer, Vice-President, JOHN I'ORD, '47. FRESILMAN S.MOKER ihc affair featured these distinguished guests: as Treasurer, RONALD HARRON, "u. On September 4, 1957, the Notre Dame Club of master of ceremonies. J.ACK L.AVELLE, football Elected to three-vear leinis as Iiii'-tee^ uere: New York held their .Annual Freshman Smoker scout and raconteur extraordinaire; representing the THOMAS FOV, "SS. at the New Yc)rk .Athletic Club at which over 250 University, JIM ARMSTRONG, national aJunini ANTHONY POTENZIANI, Md. incoming freshmen and llieir parents gathered to sec^et3r^•: representing the United States Militarv RICHARD KISGEN, 43. be introduced to Notre Dame. FATHER RICH-Academv. LT. COL. FRANCIS ROBERTS, man­The membership of the chib uislies to express .ARD MURPHA', Director iti Admissions for the ager of athletics, and REV. ROBERT McCOR­
its sincere appreciation to LOUIS LUJAN, '24. University, and student representatives from each MICK, Catholic chaplain at W'vst Point. for his capable leadership dutinn the past, two of tlie coUege.i were on hand to discuss the diller­years, and to the ouicoinj' oHicns for a job ent pliases i.f campus life. This is one activity well done. that our Club is very priuid of. and wc have been 
—G. J. LOMlIARni. '44, Seo. advised that it is considered one of the most Northwestern Ohio worthwhile endea\oi> bv the University. Con­gralulatii.ns are in order to MIKE MALLARDI 
N.D. comradeship is flourishing anew dmvn here in the Best Location in the Nation between Wil­for organizing a great function. 
New York City loughby and Conneaut, Ohio. On May 22, 13 men from widely scattered locations met at the UESTCHE5TER DIVISION Parrish House. /\shtabula, for dinner and a gabfest. 
SCHEDULE OF CO.MI.VG EVE.VTS 

The Westchester Division of the Notre Dame November 13. 19."f7—Annual Business Meeting. The following notes aie pertinrnt: CInb of New York held their first .Annual Golf December It. 1957—Uiiiveisal Notre Dame Coni-Ontinij at the world famr>ns \Vykai;nI Conntry nnuiioii Sunday. .Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral CONNEAUT 
Club in New R.»cheUe on June 4. Over one 
with a brunch at the Park Lane Hotel. 
himdred duffers nave exhibitions on how colf R.AV ROACH, '.^1. reports his son. David, is a 
Jannarv' 15. 1957—The Trust Fund di'awing. and 

should and should ^lot !)e plaved. TOM LANI'RV sophomore at Notre Dame. Ray is with Union and DONN DUFFY we,e Co-chairmen ablv assivted Catbide and is Chemist for the City of Conneaut. 
election of oliicers for the ensuing year. bv GEORGE O'NEIL, TONY DiBARI, JI.M 
.MISSION DINNER JERRY aVMPBELL, ex '54. is with the Con-SHAY, FRED CARIDEO. JOHN NLVRRACH and ncaut News Herald, but still maintains his resi­
On October 9 club members attended a dinner 

FRANK SPIEGEL. Our thanks to all the aboie dence in Grove City. Pa. Jerrx^ is single. 
and recepii(Ul at 'he Commodore Hotel for 15 I loly Cio>s pi ieNL". and Ilrothei s wh(» left New 
for makini; it an outstaudini; tKUtut;. 
BF„N KLEPEK, '52, coaches Cmuieaut Rowc High ANNUAL IIASEIIALL OUTINC; York Oct. II) to do Our Lady's work in Pakistan. 

School football and has two children. We hope to Oil -July If.. 19.^>7. the stands of Ebbels Field. see him at the next meeting as he was unable the home of the Uiooklyn Dodders rani; with the to attend. 
SCHOLARSHIP FU.ND DRIVE cheers of over one hundred Node Daiiie men cele­
The Club's annual Scludarship Fund Drive gtit brating their fifth Annual Notre Dame Nifiht In 
under way on September I. This year the Club JACK PHIPI*S, ex '4G. is with the Conneaut Ebbels Field. Prior to the i:ame. DO.V JOST 
is going to raffle <ifr a 1958 Ford Conntrv- Squire Rubber and Plastics Co.. a thriving, relatively new-and BOR H.\YDEN organized an excellent dinner Stationwagon. .A second raffle will be held for the plant in Conneaut. John was in Detroit, and un­.that was Iield at Michel's Restaurant on Flatbtisli sellers of cliance b(M>ks. The prize for this raffle is able to attend. He has three boys. Avenue in Krooklyn. The best patt of the evening a seleclitm of one uf the f«jllowing: 
STEVE STOFKO, '5f». writes that he is attending was that the Dodijers beat St. Louis. 

1.
 .A mink sitile. Navigators Program at Harlingen .A.F.B., Texas. 

2.
 A two weeks crui>e to the Caribbean. Tlic N.D. men there get together when possible. 

3.
 .A Cn»sbv fiberglass motor boat. Sieve graduated in June. 


LONG ISLAND DIVISION 
On Sunday. July 14. 1957, the Loni; Island 
4. $1,000.00 United States "E' ' Binid. 

Division of the Notre Danie Club of New York 5. A complete waidrobe of Cecil Chapman WILLOUGHBY held their Family Reach Party at the Gilgn Reach Originals. 
under the Chairmanship of JI.M KELLY-A preat DAN SAMMON, '25. has a s.ut wl».m LEO day was had bv all. Last year's scholarship fund drive vvas the UH)st UARDIE, '44. interviewed at Case Tech for an 
DETROIT—Officers and guests at the annual Notre Dame solf stag parly al Plum Hollow included, from left to right: Ernest J. Gar­garo, club treasurer: Edgar Hayes Detroit sports writer; Ed Krause, Notre Dame athletic director; Ed Gage, club president; John Panclli. chairman; Coach Jack ZiUy, and Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C. 
! 26 Notre Dawe Alumnus, October-November, 1957 
FLINT—Anthony DeLortnzo, Vice-President of Public Relations of General Motors Corp. (center), receives a scroll proclainiinf^ him Notre Dame "Man of the Year" from Flint Club President Raymond J- Kelly, Jr., as Father Ednmnd Joyce, C.S.C., guest speaker, looks on approvingly. 
i-iiiliiii-i'riui' |)n>it!(Mi uitli Union Carbidt-. Dan rs has been wtirklng on the St. Lawience Seaway JAMES MONGELLO, '55, is single and with an aUoriicy and brnkcr. and Iwtks as if lit- could pmject. He is single. the ^(a^ines In the Pacific. linir lip at t-nd on thi- team riylil noiv. Of iiitert-st to iiicti of tilt; Cleveland an-a: Dau and four otlicr 
ED.MUN'D FITZGERALD, ex 'MK is a Govern­JOHN* MAHONEY, '38. is an attorney and lucn finnird tlit- Clfvi-Iand N.D, Cliih in the >cliool 
ment man. and slnt;le. He was probably the most single. He is a lieutenant colonel In the National libiar\' while Mill .students bark in Four Ilorsenien 
enthusiastic participant at our meeting. Guard. days. ' MONSIGNOR JOSEPH DALEY, nnu- de­JOHN Z/\BACH, '31. hxs a son Jack a Junior 
JOE GARDEUINE, '31. Is with the Spring ceased, was the first I'lesident. Il seems that only at X.D. He also has a daughter and younger son. 

WiHid Co.. manufacturing pallets and WCKKI prod­
\*I\VL «f lliK five knew how to dance, so he was John is .Ashtabula's leading funeral director, and 
ucts. He has five cbildren. and was one of the 
uiadu chaiitiian of llic first Cleveland Chib dance. 
as Exalted Ruler of the Elks wa.s instrumental in having the Notre Dame band play a concert a fortunate ones attending his 23tb ' class reimlon 
fast year. 
GEORGE E. THO.MAS, "27. is another one ol while back. He Is now a District Deputv of the l]if>se fellows who I<H>ks fit eiu>ti,i*h to he taking a 

THO.MAS KH.KER, "S'l. has his own store, has Elks. 
post-graduate course at school. He is with the four b»>y> and oiu- girl. His oldest is a star junior —JOH.V E. LYNCH, '38 C.E.I.. and his son. Georije C . ''t'S. is in the serv­
(juarteiback on the St. John's f(»otball team with 
ice in Oklaliouia. Geoii-e. Sr.'s orie dauiihter 
high hopes of attending X.D. At 180 pounds and 
attend*. St. Mary*s. 
ti feet he should be a fine pro>pect In another year. I'AT SHJ.ISANO, "«t, I the bar and re>­
Ohio Valley 
LEO L.\RDIE, "+4, is assistant superintendent for 

lauiant business. }lr Ii;is L-e children. 
L*nH>n Carbide's power plant in Ashtabula. \Vith 
On Monday. .Aug. 19, the Notre Dame Club 

three boys and three girls, be copped the patenilly 
of the Ohio Valley sponsored a "send-off" picnic GAINESVILLE award. He is present Grantl Knight of the K. of C. 
for new students entering Noire Dame this fall. JOE STRAUSS, "M. is Export .\fanat;er for .Approximately 36 people attended. 
I personally am aI*io with Uuiou Carbide, have 

Wliitc Motor Co.. in Cleveland, and will make four daughters, and am dying to help on N.D. ROBERT R. SINaAVICH, president, was in ai'raiii;ement.s for our ne.\t meelinj; September 4 Foundation work. charge of the nu-eting- Plans were discussed for at Hellrici'ers. Any addititmal N.D. men in the the fall and winter months, and it was decided to areas sboidd cimtaci Joe. His number Is I'ainesville We me: RAV MARGRE'IT, "3J. to find that be 
hold a Notre Dame TV ci>cktall party on the day Elmuood Tl'tl.i. He and his wife live ai 18 Fair-is moving S4«m back to his old iiome town of of ibis season's televised Notre Dame football game. 
Held Road. Rocheslei. N. V. He Is with .Associate Discount 
Fresh, broiled corn, hot dogs, coffee, and soft 

and has Untr children. His boy's health is the 
drinks provided the bill <)f fare, and members were .\SHTABULA principal reasim for leaving this damp climate. 
entertained with movies—the new Notre Dame movie and ''Grid Highlights of 1956.*' 
GERALD aVNDEUA, '53. won't he back lo the CILARLES MONAGHAN, '3S, is single and Stales (lom Nortliern Canada imt'd Christmas. He witli U. S. Industrial Chemicals. Attending were .Mr. and Mrs.- JA.MES DAILER, 
FORT WAlTvE—^An enthusiastic and representative group attended the Fort Wa)Tie alumni club's annual Day of Recollection this year. 
RUSSELL RICKUS, ED SARGUS, JAMES ILV­RANZO, DICK HARVEY, BOB DUFFY, W. N. HOGAN, JR., JOHN SCHUETZ, WILLIAM .MITSCH, and R;\Y JORD<\X. 
Also MUs .MAGDALEXE RICKUS, Mr. AL GHAPHERY and guest, MIKE &VSEY and guest, BOB SCHUETZ and guest, RAY KEYS, JOE SARGUS, GEORGE and JUDY SARGUS, ROB­ERT SINCA\1CH, JOHN ROBINSON, ALEX DUNN, and BILL DENNING. 
Notre Dame football tickets were awarded at tlic Sept. 30 meeting. Co.<:hairmen were ROBERT DUFFY and KXV KEYS, ulio were assisted by ALEX DUN-N and ^^^LLIAM HOGAN, JR. 
—R. R. SLV&U1CH 
Philadelphia 
The Second Annual Stag Golf Outing of the Philly Club look place at the Whitcmarsh Valley Country Club. JOE CATTIE was chairman. No budding Sam Sncad was uncovered, but evcr>"one did have an hilarious time. A wonderful roast beef dinner was scr\'ed. 
The Back to Campus Party at the September meeting at PhUo's featured many guests from the world of sport. Among them were BOB ^VIL­LIAMS, former All-American quarterback at the University, "BUD" DUDLEY, now- Villanova's ath­letic director, and BOB DEVINE, cuiptain-clcct of the 1957-58 basketball team at N.D. The new campus film was shown, and the area's ''lads" got a fine send-off. 
The club had its pep rally for the Army game Oct. n at the ^VanvIck hotel, whlcli was also the site of a cocktail part>- immediately following the game. 
WALT RIDLEY and CHARLIE CONLEY were co-chairmen of this year's football rafile. First prize, to be drawn for Xov. 12, is an all-cxpense­paid week end in South Bend for the Soutlicrn California game and $250 in spending money. Tlie drawing is the club's most successful venture each year. 
FATHER MARTIX J. McDONOUGH of Uie Society for the Propagation of the Faith will speak at the annual Communion Breakfast Dec 8 at the Barclay Hotel. 
Tentative plans have been made for a Christmas dance at the Mcrion Tribute House Dec 30. 

Any member of the alumni in the Philadelphia area who is not registered with tlie club should contact GERRY VOIT, 5803 Charles St.. Phila­delphia, Pa., and have his name and address in the new club directory being prepared. 
Pittsburgh 

Tlte 1957 Pittsburgh Club golf tournament and dinner were n-portcd to be the best yet held. The Butler Countrv* Club course is one of the finest in Pennsylvania, and the steaks were delicious. Guests of honor were MOOSE KR/\USE, N.D. Ath­letic Director, and aVPTAIX TOM HAMILTON, .Athletic Director of the University of Pittsburgh. GENE COYNE was dialrman of the event, and a raffle drawing for the Notre Dame-PItt trip was held at the dinner. Several fairway and door , prizes were a^^ardcd. 
Rhode Island—S.E. Mass. 

CARLETON G. MacDOUGALD who was pic­tured in the August-September Alumnus receiving a gift from the Class of 1938 is Rhode Island's "No­tre Dame ^lan of the Year." 
On the golfing front, JUDGE JOHN S. Mc-KIERNAN and his partner were the winners ot the first du-ision of Point Judltli Country Club's 
member-guest four ball tournament while MIKE 
MONTI, JR., was a finalist In the State Junior 
Championship. JIM MURPHY and JI.M .McMUL-
LEN played a matcli for the amateur championship , 
of the club, but scores were withheld for reasons 
never announced. 
PAUL HOEFFLER, .VNDY Mc.^^AHON and REV. ROBERT NE\\*BOLD organized the annual golng-away party for students and the big Army game weekend, and it would appear that the R.I.­
S.E. Mass. Club has begun one of its most active 
years. —JOHN J. CURTIN, Scc>-. 
Rochester 
The Summer in Rochester began with a dance at the Ridgemont Countrv Club. Mr. and Mrs. ERIC SCOTT and Mr. and Mre. JIM DOYLE ser\*ed as Co-Chalrmen. A large turnout enjoyed the annual affair. 
Golf plays a big part In the life of Notre Dame / alumni In Rochester. T!ic golf tournament was ' held in mid-July at the Oak Hill Country Club. 1 scene of the 1955 National Open Championship. Tlie local duffers struggled over the course with JACK HEDGES and JACK HE.VGNEY sharing honors for low gross and low net respectively. An excellent dinner followed the tournament. Later In July BILL BELL distinguished himself with a hole In one at Lake Shore Club. .i 
Tlie family picnic snared the spotlight for August i activities. A large turnout was assured by the chairmanship of MG DeSIMON. JOE FLOOD and family defended the many titles which they won in the competition of last year's event. 
Tlic incoming freshmen were given an orientation to Notre Dame life by the present students and several alumni In a meeting In late August. Tlils annual affair Is designed to aid the new student in preparing himself for Notre Dame life. The close co-operation between the campus club and the Roclicslcr alumni chapter provided an excellent program. WALT HUURMAN, a senior at Xotrc Dame, and BILL DEMPSEY were co-chairmen. 
The Rochester Club also engaged in a fund raising drive for an a!I expense trip to the Notre Dame-Army ganic in Philadelphia. All club mem­bers worked hard under TOM HIGGINS, who headed tlie campaign. 
We mourn the death ot JAMES (SCOOP) MUR­PHY of Livonia, X. Y. BOB AVORTHIXGTOX took the big step on August 24. The wedding bells cliimed for Bob and his bride, the former Miss Marilyn Kocb. 
The Ladies' Auxiliary- began the fall season with 
a luncheon at Brookica Country* Club. Mrs. Tom 
Higgins, the new president, outlined plans for 
the coming year. 
—BILL DEMPSEY, Secy. 
Rome 
Following a very successful Universal X'otrc Dame Xighr, wc received the *'good news" from Jim Armstrong that the Alumni Board had oflicially welcomed the Rome Club into the roster of bona iide X'.D. Clubs. Conic the fall, wc look for^vard to the first election of officers. 
It is cWdcnt that much of the Rome Club's activities will have to do with welcoming and assi<;ting \isiting alumni and friends who pilgrimage to Rome: Knowing how much this is appreciated, wc wish to extend a warm welcome to aU comers. The following are arrivals during the past four months: 
JERRY ASHLEY, '33, of Detroit, with his wife, Dorothy and children, to become Romans for a year or more, witli the lads attending Xotrc Dame International School, and the lass, Mar>-mount. Jerr>* is already "Mr. Fireball" in the Rome Club. TIic /Vshley family has also enjoyed the privilege of a private audience with His Holiness, Pins XH (Honorary Alumnus. *36). ^Vlongsidc Jcrr>', as a fellow Dctroiter and "subway" alumnus, is HAR­OLD "MUDDY" RUE L of the Detroit Tigers, who with his family M U reside here a year assisting Italian baseball efforts: Tlie two Ruel sons will be at Xotrc Dame International, too. 
Others passing through Rome: HUGH FITZ­GER^VLD, '3i. JOSEPH TURK, '55. .lOHX' R. NLADDEX, '53, ^rr. and Mrs. ROBERT L. BRAND, grandparents of ROBERT LEE BR^\ND, '59; N.D. facultv members. F.ATHERS PHILIP S. MOORE, JOSEPH N. GARVIN, ROBERT W. WOODWARD; Mr. JOHX F. BEGGY and his son. John P., representing their DAXIEL J. BEGGY, '57; HUGH BALL o! '32 with his wife, the former FLORENCE BRETT of St. Mary's, '34. and their two sons, Hugh, Jr., a pre-med at N\D. and a voimgcr brother attending St. Edward's High fC.S.C). Lakewood, Ohio. JIM McQUAID, '31. and his wife, Jim doing Lourdcs and Rome in a wheelchair, sponsored by the X'otrc Dame Men's Retreat League, and winding up with a special audience with His Holiness. TOM CURRY, '14. bis %rifc. Angela. St. Marv's, 'H, and their son. FATHER FRED CURRY, chaplain of the Newman Club at the University of .Arizona:^ On Tom Curr\-'s side there have been l"o generations of ND-goers; on Mrs. Curr\*'s side, four generations—Tom's brother, John, '04, and Tom's sons. Tom, Jr., '50, and David, '55. Mrs. Curn-'s great uncles were FATHER PATRICK DILLON. President of Notre Dame, and FATHER JAMES DILLON, Vice-Presi­dent. SISTER M. ANGELA. C.S.C., a sister of Mrs. Curry, is stationed now in South Bend. 
T^vo daughters of the late FRED MILLER of Milwaukee, Loretta and Robin, with their aunt KATE KANALEY, old Roman neichbors of yester­year, came back for two weeks. JOHN KRUEGER, *49, fonnerly of Rome, is down from Paris with his new Roman wife on a delayed honc>Tnoon. LEONARD J. DUNN, '32, came to Rome to give several talks in connection with meetings of The International Academy of Trial Lawyers, an organ­ization limited to 500 members, and to which Mr. Leonard has been elected. Brothers IVO REGAN", C.S.C., '41. and VINCENTIUS BALOG, C.S.C.. '47, accompanied 13 students from Gilmorc Acad­emy. Gates Mills. Ohio: Tltcy were doing the tour at an X'.D. pace. 7 conntries In 65 days. 

\rany of the aforementioned risltors became In­volved in tNirical Rome Club spontaneous N.D. get­togethers: We held a testimonial dinner for Jim McQuaid at N.D.'s favorite Rome restaurant, Tlie Scoglio Di Frislo, where the orchestra is trained to launch Into the Victory Xfarch at the drop of a bat: Likewise at The Scoglio wc enjoyed a wed­ding annivcrsarj* (16th) dinner for the Asblc>*s. At Jeny's home, on another occasion N.D. guests gath­ered for a soiree. As many as possible wc have brought to visit the General Headquarters of the Congregation of Holy Cross as well as Notre Dame International School, especially the new site where cxca%-ations arc underway for the new X.D.I. 
—VINCE McXLOON 
St. Joseph Volley 
BILL EiVRLEY, former Irish assistant grid coadi, is ser\'ing as chairman of the annual Quarterback Club luncheons sponsored by St. Joseph Valley alumni. A total of five meetings has been ar­ranged, all to be toastmastcred by JOE BOLi\ND. Celebrities on the college coaching level, famed professional stars and former Irish football 'greats' are Included on the speaking programs. 
Plans arc progressing for the Civic Testimonial Banquet, honoring the 1957 squad, to be held in December after the close of the X'otrc Dame schedule. 
St. Louis 
Tlie St. Louis Club started Its summer activities rolling with its annual plciuc, held July II. Our original picnic date In June had to be cancelled because of rain but thanks to the efforts of MAL DOOLEY and TO.M .McGUIRE and their com­mittee tlie re-schcduled event was a bowling success. 
The picnic \v'as a family affair with an attendance of somewhere in the neighborhood of 100 adults and an unofficial count of several Imndrcd cliildrcn (some people, however, say the count of children looked more like several thousand). 
Swimming was one of the highlights of the day's actintlcs. For those who wanted the drier form of exercise wc had volleyball, horseshoes, and a very heated softball contest between the alumni and students. There has been no official account of the outcome of the game and both students and alumni are claiming victory. 

Following the picnic we held our annual stag Golf Touraamcnt at Xonvood Counirv Club. GEXE FEHLIG, GEORGE DESLOGE and LOU FEHLIG handled details for the July 30 event. • 

ED "MOOSE" KR/\USE u-as on hand for the day's activities, and even took home a prize for his golfing ^ility by winning one of the blind bogies. .-Vnother blind bogey *vinncr was FATHER JOSEPH DWYER. Tlie low score winner was LOU FEHLIG. A special trophy was presented to Rx\LP ZITZ­M.AXN for tlic day's high total. 
Tlic golfers teed off at noon and were joined later in the day by the less ambitious members of the Club who arrived In time for cocktails and dinner which followed the fair^x'ay competition. 
Among the special guests on hand for dinner was BOB BURNS, St. Louis sportswritcr and caster and a long time booster of Xotre Dame (despite the fact that he's surrounded by daughters). 
The next regular affair on our calendar was the Club's annual luncheon in honor of the new fresh­man who entered the University this fall as the class of '61. The new students and their fathers were guests of the Club at the luncheon September 
5. DAVE MAX, BOB TORREXCE and their com­mittee handled details for the affair. 
The Club's Annual Scliolarship Fund Football Trip this year took us to the Pittsburgh game at South Bend. Tlie Notre Dame Special left St. Louis Friday evening, October 25, arriving in South Bend the next morning in plenty of time for 
KANK/VKEE VALLEY—Retiring President Maynard Bissonnette presents Father John Cavanaugh, CS-C, with a §500 check for the University, to be used towards a scholarship for a boy from the Kankakee Valley area. 
campus touring and \-isIting before the kick-off. Accommodations included a Saturday night stop­over in Chicago before the return to Su Louis Sunday night. DOX DOHEN'V and GEORGE COX\Ty were in cliargc of this year's trip. 
Our monthly luncheons arc still being held the second Monday of the month at the Key Club of the Sheraton-Jefferson Hotel. Drop in and Join us if youVc in town. 
—J. DONALD RATCHFORD, Sec>-. 
Salina 
TIic Salina X.D. Club had a great part>' Satur­day night, August 10. Wc took the tvivcs and gals to the old Brook\-ilIe Hotel and really filled up on cliickcn and the trimmings. 
TOM KENNEDY, '51, and JOE SCHAEFER, '55. were the €»-chaJrmen. Joe, incidentally, begins Ills second year of medical school at Kansas U. this fall. They did a great job. Brook\-ilIe is IG miles west of Salina, so they had the gang board a bus and all go out together. Tlie bus naturally w-as complete with bar and libations. 
JOHN BROWNE, '51, from Clay Center, was so anxious to make the party that he brought his wife and four children, look a suite complete with baby sitter at the Holiday Inn and proceeded to have a time for himself. 
\Vc made it a farewell party for LT. JOHN GUSTAINIS, who was discharged August 12, and Lt. and Mrs. DAVE DcWEESE, who were to leave (discharge) August 24. Gustainis is marr>-ing a Laredo, Texas, girl sometime very soon. 
Also present at the party were: Mr. and Mrs. 
JOE COLE, Mr. and Mrs. JLM FOLEY, Mr. and Mrs. BOB McAULIFFE, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN Ci\RLIN, Dr. and Mrs. FRED G/\NS, Mr. and ^^rs. AL SCHWARTZ. NORB SKELLEY, TOM FOOTE and Mr. and Mrs. CLEO MELCHER. Tlic last-named couple have just moved here from Wichita. He's manager of the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. here. 
—AL SCHWARTZ, '37, Sec>-.-Treas. 
San Diego 
Colleges and universUies are competing as keenly for good students as for any athlete, JIM ARM­STRONG, '25, secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, said July 6 at the Town and Countr>­Hotel. 
"While most schools have more applications than they can handle, they still arc encouraging tlicir alumni to contact outstanding high school student leaders with a view to insuring a high caliber—as well as capacity—freshman class evcr>- year," Arm­strong said. 
Jim, traveling with his wife and three of his five sons, was in San Diego to confer with the officers of the Irish alumni group here which is headed by HOWARD BEILSTEIN, '47, of El Cajon. 
—HARRY MOXAH.VN 
Scranton 
The club had a ver>- successful affair, thanks largely to the presence of BILL WALSH, '49, TERRY BRENN.AN's veteran line coach, as a guest. 

NEW YOP-K CITY—On behalf of the alumni club, President William H. Fallon (center) presents academic scholarships of §2,000 apiece to outstanding students Ramon J. Vales, Jr. (left), of Rye, N. Y., and Lawrence T. Brekka, Tarrjtow-n, N. Y. Both have enrolled in Notre Dame's College of Engineering. 
(Ed. Note: AHKE COMERFORD is the subject of a "Spotlight Alumnus" feature in this issue.) 
Southern Cook County 

Mr. and ^frs. DOMINIC a\lj\CCI, '32, were parents of a baby girl June 26, 1957. JOSEPH PEROZZI, '32, will finisl. liis army career as of September 20, 1957. ROBERT a\FFARELLI is ably assisting State Representative Antliony Scariano in bis law oflicc. 
Our club held a dinner meeting at "Joe's" res­taurant to correspond with the installation of tbc new ofliccrs. 
Mr. and ^r^s. JOHN Z/\R,\NTE arc proud par­ents of another baby girl. Mr. and Mrs. TONY PERRY, '54, cspecting the stork early in November. 
New club officers for the current fiscal year are: 
President, THO.MAS 0'GR,\DY, '50. 
Vice-President, BENJAMIN DA.MIA.\I, '51. 
Treasurer, JOSEPH COSTELLO, '52. 
Secretarj-, TONY PERRY, '54. 

Directors, RICHARD WEILER, '52, and JU­LIAS ATWATER, '43. 
Our dub suffered a small financial deficit on the spring dance, but wc are forging ahead with a full schedule of events induduig a summer family picnic, fall dance, and corporate Communion. Uni­versal Notre Dame night will also be observed although no plans have been set for the alTair. 
—TONY PERRY, '54 | 
Southeastern Wisconsin 

Our annual picnic was held on August 18 at Forest Park on the Racine-Kenosha County Line. Since it rained twice, only the Iiardv members arrived. WALT and KITT\' McDER^IOTT and the six little McDennotts won the prize for the largest family. They were given close competition by DON and -MARIE KOTZ who have five plus. The JI.M SPENCERS, VERN HECHTS, JOHN WARDS, GROVER MILLERS, and DICK MUR­PHYS also had a grand time swapping food, telling stories and keeping track of all their children. It was so much fun that another picnic was planned for the near future. 
—RICHARD WM. MURPHY, '50, Scc^-..T^eas. 
Terre Haute 
The Notre Dante Club of Terre Haute held its annual summer picnic on September 15 at PETE VARD.A, SR.'s summer place north of Clinton. A gala time was had by all club members and their families in attendance. Games for both children and adults were featured, and a highlight of the day was a Softball game between the ladles and the gcnis, the men having to bat left-handed and hop on one leg during their half of the Inning. On defense they were obliged to catch and throw the ball in unaccustomed fashion, as well. To top off the day MILTON FOX, a newcomer to our club from Chicagoland and general manager of the Terre Haute Brewery, donated a generous sup­ply of that favorite nectar. Champagne Velvet. 
By the w-ay, a new twist this year was that the committee was In the capable hands of the ladies. .Mesdames DICK KELLY, FR.\NK PROX and JOHN MURPHY headed up their efforts. 
Tlie first regular meeilng of the new year took 
place in early October. 
—JOHN MURPHY, '44, Prcs. 
Toledo 
Tlic Notre Dame Club of Toledo recently held its election of officers for the 1957-58 term. FRfVN-CIS (BUD) MALONE, '45, was elected president; GEORGE KORHUMEL, '49, vice-president; JACK BECKHAM, '50, secretary; JI.M BRITT, '52, treasurer. DICK DONOGHUE, past president, moves to the board of directors, together with VIC BECK, UB,WC GRtVDEL, DICK KOPF, JOE HILLEBRAND, JIM MURTAtIGH and TERRY O'LOUGHLIN. . 
Plans are being made for a football train special for the Nav>' or Michigan State football game for Notre Dame Alumni and friends. 

•30 Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November, 1957 
WASHINGTON, D. C.—Left to right, the Honorable Paul Butler, toastniastcr, Rev. John Cavanaugh, CS.C, guest of honor, and Senator 
John F. Kennedy, main speaker, admire the plaque presented to Dr. Matthew Sullivan, 
First inct-'ling of tins fall season was at the Hillcri.-st TowtT Room to honor new stiidt-nts enter­ing Xotre Dante and for those returning for the fall semester. 
—JACK BECKHA.Xf, '50, Secy. 

Tulsa 
.MAN OF YEAR 

During the last Universal Notre Dame night festivities, BOB SHEEH/VN was presenrcd with an award as the cluh's "Man of the Year." Bob is in his second year as club president and has been outstanding in Notre Dame afTairs for several years. 
BRE.\KFAST Another Communion Breakfast took place on Sep­tember 8. The meeting was held at Damier's and attendance reached a high level. New students entering Notre Dame this fall were special guests and fathers and sons of chib members were also on hand. After breakfast a business meeting was held at which time plans for (he coming year were announced. 
FOOTBALL TRIP 

Tlic Oklahoma-Notrc Dame game is at Norman this year and arrangements have been completed for a package trip open to the general public. All proceeds from this trip will go to the club's scholarship fund and at the present time local interest In the game is ver\- keen. 
NEW STUDENTS 

Tlierc arc eleven new Freshmen from Tulsa or vicinity attending Notre Dame this fall. This is a good indication of the acceptance which Notre Dame has in the Tulsa area and we hope that these young men will go on to graduate and become members of the local club. 
during a UND Night obser\'ance. 
NEW MEMBER 

JOHN T. .MCCARTHY has recently become a club member and a liearty welcome is extended to him. 
—BOB .MANNLX, Secv. 

Washington. D. C. 
The club had its annual golf party Monday, July 22, at the Kenwood Country' Club, with an impressive number of foursomes in attendance. The annual family picnic took place August 24 at ttic Dowling farm. Oliiey, Mar>'land. Hot dogs and liquid refreshment were provided, and families also brought home-cooked food for a supper later in the day. Activities included supervised swimming, volleyball, liorseshne pitching contests, children's events and a student-alumni softball game. VINCE HANRAHAN was general chairman of the event. 
Notre Dame Dirtctor of Athletics ED KR*\USE was in town September 3 as guest at a luncheon for the boys who are freshmen this year at the University. Alumii! and guests gathered at Bonat's Restaurant to say hello to Ed and get the lowdown on this year's football team. The club ran a package special to the Army game, providing tickets and transportation for D. C. alumni. 
Here is an incomplete list of future club activi­ties: the Fall Hoedown dance (BYOB), November 9; a Communion Breakfast (stag) Sunday, Dec. 8, at Holy Cross College; a raffle Friday. December 13 (date picked for good luck): ihe Holidav Dance (black tie) December 31 (DR. WALTER BREN­NAN, chairman, plus a committee of alumni wives); movies of the Notre Dame football season (good or bad) at the general meeting, January 23, 1958; a Notre Dame Forum (panel discussion) featuring prominent Washingtonians February 19; a St. Pat­rick's Party (%vives invited) after the general meet­ing ifarch 17; a Day of Recollection or Family 
 outgoing president of the Washington Club, 
Communion Breakfast sometime in Lent, perliaps Laetare Sunday, and finally a gala UND Night sometime in April. 
Western Washington 
JIM xVRMSTRONG, our illustrious and renowned Alumni Secretary, was guest at a luncheon on July 23, 1937, at the Washington Athletic Club, Room 
400. SLvtIi and Union, Seattle, Washington. Afrs. Armstrong and sons Greg and Doug ac­companied Jim, so alumni had their wives and/or sweethearts as guests too. This event was held in lieu of a picnic this summer, and there was a 
gratifying turnout. It was Jim's first visit in Seattle. 
Wilkes-Borre 
R.\YMOND J. SOBOTA, '49, a local attorney, was recently named president of the Notre Dame Alumni of Wilkes-Barre. Ray. relumed from a tour in the service, succeeds JOSEPH A. McHUGH, '30, as president of tlie organiza:ion. 
Williamsport 
First annual mid-summer club picnic held at cottage of FRrVNK LUNDV's family on Sunday, .Aug. 18, with approximately 40 members and their wives, sons, daughters, etc, in attendance. De­lightful occasion with swimming and boating. Frank's father, RICHARD H. LUNDY, presided at charcoal fireplace and his mother made everyone at home on the terrace. Frank parked the cars. 
Plans were discussed for individual trips to Philadelphia to see the Army game, and ^fr. Lundy and FR.\NK C. HAVES were nominated to attend an alumni meeting there that week-end. 
—JACK WILLMANN, Secy. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November, 1957 31 
Engagements 

Miss Suzanne Alfrie Wilson and THOMAS J. SHEEHiVN, '51. Miss Gcraldinc Man- Sulli\an and DONALD J. FAGER, '32. Miss Lorctta Wliite and WILLIAM GUIL­FOILE, '54. Miss Mao- Elizabelli O'Halloran and JOHN T. NOLAN, '51. Miss Nancv Elizabeth Ellsworth and EDWARD WALSH, '54. Miss Suzanne Vandcrbosch and THOMAS E. DINAN, '57. Miss Jcannine Riditcr and THOM.VS J. GUII^ FOILE, '37. 
Marriages 

Miss Judith Matis and AUSTIN BOYLE, '31, Notre Dame, Ind., June 15. Miss Marj- Fidclis Todd and JOHN A. BISBEE, '46, North Holbiiood, Calif., August 24. Miss Dorolhv Tliercsa O'Connor and JOHN R. MURPHY, '48, South Orange, N. J., August 24. Miss Donna Van Risseghcm and HUGH A. HENRY, JR., '51, Onamia, Minnesota. Miss Sharon Jeancnc Miller and JOSEPH H. HARRISON, '52, Ei-ans»-iIIc, Ind., June 29. Miss Theresa M. Torok and GEORGE T. MOORE, '52, South Bend, Ind., June 15. Miss Christine Barnes and LOUIS E. RIEG, '52, Lawrence, Mass., December 29, 1956. Miss Donna O'Dea and JACK CONNELL, '33, Lowell, Mass., July 28. Mbs Joyce Marie Cosgrove and GEORGE J. DOLAK III, '34, Minneapolis, ^linn., June 8. Miss Marj- Katherine Sahm and J. LEONARD DURY, '54, Mishawaka, Ind., August 10. Miss Hope Hughes and PAUL E. FORSMAN, JR., '54, Larchmont, N. Y., June 8, Miss Genevieve Patricia Somcrs and ROBERT P. GORMAN, '54, South Orange, N. J., June 8. Miss Mary Anne Bruner and C<\RL H. GUN­DERSON, '54, South Bend, Ind., September 7. Miss Donna ^farie Schiappacasse and JOSEPH 
B. JOYCE, '54, Notre Dame, Ind., July 6. ^rlss Eileen Elizabeth McCarthy and THOMAS 
M. McKEON, '54. Notre Dame, Ind. Miss Carrie Ethel Nehcr and JOHN T. QUEEN­AX, *54, Greenwich, Conn., June 15. Miss Lucv Burke Connolly and DA%nD R. COHEN, '55, Notre Dame, Ind., July 6. Miss Helen Lorraine O'Keefe and THOMAS J. MILLER, '53, Cr>stal, No. Dak., August 26. Miss Geraldine F. Simmons and CHARLES H. MINGES, '35, Notre Dame, Ind., July 20. Miss Regina Frances Costello and JAMES F. NORTON, '35, Jersey City, N. J., August 17. Miss Maureen Anne Butler and LT. JAMES P. O'MALLEY, "55, Notre Dame, Ind., August 27. Miss Ann Marie Kennv and CHARLES A. SUL­LI\'AN, JR., '35, SufTem. N. Y., August 24. Miss Marv Carey and JOSEPH P. SWIFT, '55. Oak Park, 111., July 20. Xnss Tamy Marietta and MARK TOLLE, '55, Dallas, Texas, September 14. Miss Sallie Carol Costa and PAUL J. INEICH, '56, SpringBcld, 111., June 8. Miss Mary Ann Grittani and JOHN F. MANION, '56, Mishawaka, Ind., September 7. Miss Rita Andreas and JAMES E. MILAS, '36, Chicago, III., June 12. Miss Kay Roberts and HENRY NEUHOFF III, '36, Deadivood, So. Dak., October 12. 
Miss Jane Powers and JOSEPH S. O'CONNOR, '56, Chicago, 111., June 29. 
Miss Sandra Jean DcVries and DONALD A. GLENTON, '57, Notre Dame, Ind., June 13. Miss Ila May Martin and JAMES M. MEEHAN, '57, South Bend, Ind., July 27. Miss Josephine Marie Sergio and GENE H. MUHLHERR, '57, Noire Darae, Ind., September 14. Mbs Geraldine Bratina and JOSEPH R. VAN DYCK, '57, South Bend, Ind., September 7. 
Births 

Mr. and -Mrs. RAYMOND A. GEIGER, '32, a son, Michael Terence, July 7. Mr. and Mrs. ERNEST MAURIN, JR., '38, a son, July 7. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE A. UHL, '42, a son, David Robert, July 7. Mr. and Mrs. OLIVER H. HUNTER, '43, a son, Terence Patrick, June 15. .Mr. and Mrs. J. FR,VNK CARVER, '44, a daughter, Brigid Louise, February* 3. Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE FREIENSTEIN, '46, a daughter, Mar>' Lynn, October 26, 1956. Mr. and -Mrs. JOHN F. Li\UGHLIN, '48, a daughter, Patricia Marie, July 17. Mr. and Mrs. CARROLL J. O'CONNOR, '48, a daughter, Mar>- Margaret, July 6. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN P. CARROLL, '49, a daughter. Rose Ann, June 19. -Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT !C\NE, '49, a daughter, Dcnisc Judith, May 23. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH G. NAUMAN, '49, a daughter, Carol>-n Elizabeth, July 29. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE H. STUHR, JR., '49, a daughter. Donna Ellen, August 14. Dr. and Mrs. JOHN A. GARIEPY, '50, a daugh­ter. Lynn Ann, August 20. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD P. HYL\ND, '30, a daughter, Pegg\- Kathleen, June 19. Mr. and Mrs. FRED A. JOYCE, JR., '50, a son, Michael McFarland, June 21. Mr. and Mrs. DONALD ZEHNDER, '50, a daughter, Gail Robin, August 23. . Mr. and Mrs. D,\NIEL J. BRENNAN, '51, a daughter, Maura Eileen, February 9. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT T. PELLER, '52, a son, Matthew, June 23. Mr. and Mrs. H. P. WOOD, '52, a daughter, Lauren Ann, June 7. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS E. BAKER, '53, a son, William Roger III, May 28. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM BERRV, '33, a daugh­ter, Elizabeth Mara, June 25. Mr. and Mis. EDWARD F. CONDON, '53, a son, Edivard Francis, July 18. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES KEOGH, '53, a son, Kevin Rodden, July 2. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT G. STRALEY, '33, a daughter. Donna Marie, December 4, 1956. Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL SCANLON, '54, a son, Michael Court, Jr., August 29. Lt. and Mrs. T. N. PATTON, JR., '55, a daugh­ter, Martha Mar^', Sept. 4. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE PEZDIRTZ 11, '55, a son, George HI, April 28. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. NEVIN, '56, a daugh­ter, Martha Anne, June 15. 
Sympathy 

BERNARD J. VOLL, '17, on the death of his wife, August 26. HAROLD F. HAYNES, '23, on the death ot his mother, July 19. 
WILLIAM B. CHAWGO, '31, and LOUIS E. CHAWGO, '33, on the death of their father, August 3. 
EUGE.N'E CONNELLY, '32, on the death of his mother, July, 1957. JOSEPH HILLEBRAND, '41, on the death of his father, July 3. JERRY SARB, '48, on the death of his brother, August 21. 
E. G. OLWELL, '49, on tlie death of hb father, August 2. RICHARD HYLAND, '50, on the death of hb brother. ROBERT E. HOKE, '52, on the death of hb daughter, August 28. 
PROF. JAMES A. Mc&\RTHY, Department of Civil Engineering, on the death of his wife. 
L. W. NORMAN, '28, on the death of hb mother, August, 1957. 
JOHN SEN'NETT, '55, on the death of his father, August 27. 
Deaths 

DR. JOHN P. NAUGHTOX, '88, retired Los An­geles ph^'siclan and surgeon, died at Ins home on August 7. He attended medical school in Austria, and \%-as a graduate ot Notre Dame, the University ofv Mar>l3nd and BCHC^TIC Medical College. Dr. Naughton was the oldest living former N.D. foot­ball player. He is sur\-ivcd by his widow, a sister, and several nephews and nieces. 
HON. HENRY J. KICK, '94, died in Denver, Colo., on July 2 according to information recently received in the Alumni Office. 
FREDERICK J. O'BRIEN. '94, died on Sep­tember 5, 1955. At the time of his death, Mr. O'Brien was residing in Los Angeles, Calif. 
MARTIN J. COSTELLO, '97, retired auditor of the Interlake Iron Corp., died June 11 In South 
•Shore Hospital, Chicago. Mr. Coslcllo is survived by a son and a daughter. The funeral was held in Our Lady of Peace Church and burial took place in St. Mar>-'s ccmclcr>'. 
JOHN C. HESSE, '99, Fort Madison, Iowa, died recently according to Information received in the Alumni Oilice. 
HARRY E. POULIN, SR., '00, South Bend, Ind.. died July 7 in St. Joseph Hospital alter an illness of two montliA. Mr. Poulln, a retired salesman, was a member of the Knights of Columbus, the Elks, the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club and the Holy Name Society. He is survived by his widowj two sons, Harr\-, Jr., *37, and RoUand, '31; two grandcltildren; two brothers, and one sister. The funeral was held in St. Joseph Church. 
THO.MAS J. KEN'NY, '06, Pittsburgh, Pa., died January 20 according to information just received In the Alumni Office. 
REV. ;\'ENDELL P. CORCORAN, C.S.C, '07, widely-known Holy Cross priest, died on August 
22. He was a former pastor of Christ the King, St. Joseph's and St. Patrick's Churches in South Bend and also served as chaplain of Columba Hall, campus residence for Brothers of the Congregation. He yvas a missionary for many years and had traveled extensively throughout the United States from his ordination in 1911 until 1934. Father Corcoran Is credited with the liquidation of St. Joseph's Church debt of $127,000 wliile being as­signed there. After graduating from Notre Dame, he studied at Holy Cross College, "Washington, 
D. C. Father Corcoran Is sunivcd by a sister-in-law, and several nieces and nephews. 
ROBERT J. McGILL, '12, Indianapolis, Ind., died on February 9. 
WALTER J. MAGUIRE, M2, died on June 26, 1955, according to Information just received In the Alumni Office. Mr. Maguirc \%-a5 a resident of St. Johns, Virgin Islands, at the time of his death. 
DR. JOHN M. CULLIGAN, M5, died on August 7 in St. Paul, Minnesota. He had been active In the N.D. Foundation program since its beginning in 1947, and currently \vas serving as Foundation Governor for ^finnesota. Among the surxivors is a son, Robert, '51. 
REV. THOMAS J. MACKIN, '15, died July 19. Father Mackin was stationed in Charleston, South Carolina, at the time of his death. 
HERBERT E. AVALSH, '20, Ardmore, Pa., died on July 7, according to information received by the Alumni Office. 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November^ 1957 
"-" -^-^^-r^.-^-^..^ 
•"i^iiT'TrrTi 

ERVIN T. FLEMING, *25, Dallas, Texas, died in July according to information received in the Alumni OfHcc. 
AL FOOS, *25, Xon*-alk, Ohio, died of a heart attack on July 31. He is sumvcd by his wife, Catherine, and" two children. Requiem Mass u-as held at St. Paul's Church. 
HOWARD J. SPENCER, '25, Chicago, lU., died on April 19 according to information recently re­ceived in the Alumni Office. 
MICH/\EL J. CURRY, '26, died May 11. Sur­m'ors include his widow who resides in Alexandria, Sautli Dakota. 
JAMES V. MAHER, '26, New York, N. Y., died suddenly on July 1. 
FREDERICK J. HENNEGH/\N, '32, JoHct, HI., died on August 14. Prior to graduating from Notre Dame in 1932, he had been a Holy Cross seminarian for seven years. He was an active mem­ber of the Notre Dame Alumni Club in Joiiet and served as an officer of that organization. Sur\'tvors include his widow, a son, John F.; and two sisters. 
REV. MICH/\EL A. JEDNAKOAVSKI, C.S.C., '32, died July 23 in St. .\fary's Hospital, Chicago. Father Jednakowski had ser\'ed as assistant pastor oC Holy Trinity Church, Chicago, and St. Hcd­wige's Cliurch, South Bend, and chaplain of Gibault School for Boys, Tcrre Ifautc, Ind., and Msgr. Coyle High School in Taunton, Mass. He is sur\"ivcd by a brother. Ftmeral ser\'ices were conducted in Chicago and burial was in the Com­munity Ccnieter>- on campus. 
MALCOM V. SAXON, '36. Memphis, Tcnn., died June 18 after a lO-wcck illness. Sur^-Ivors in­clude his widow; two sons; a daughter; his mother; and two brothers, Dan'd, '29, and George, '43. 
PETER ARBOiT, '40, Van Xu>-s, Calif., died of a heart attack on July 17. Survivors Include his wife who resides at 7021 LaSainc, Van Nuys, Calif. Tlie funeral \os held at St. Catherine Sienna Churcli, Reseda, Calif. He was a former football player at Notre Dame and was a member of the Monogram Club. 
LT. (j.g.) THOMAS A. BLIND, '54, \*as killed In the crash of a Navy Jet fighter, on July 25, at Atsugl Naval Air Station in Japan. He was at­tempting an emergency- landing after the plane's engine fanned out. Lt. Blind was attached to an air group aboard the carrier Lexington, docked at nearby Yokosuka Na\"al Base. His home was in Casper, Wyo., and he was married to the former Miss Helen Bilinsky, of Vista, Manitoba, Canada. Other sur\"ivors include his mother; a sister; and two brothers, William C, '32, and Robert J. 
1903 
REV. ST/VNISL-AUS A. GRUZ.\, C.S.C., recent­ly celebrated a solemn Mass of thanksgiving in Holy Trinity Churcli, Chicago, on the occasion of his golden jubilee of priesthood. He Is presently assistant pastor and superior of the house at the Chicago church. A native of Poland who came to South Bend with his parents in his boyhood, Father Gruza served as pastor of St. Hedwigc's Church In South Bend from 1925 to 1934 and from 1940 to 19^6. He also founded South Bend Catholic High School, which existed from 1928 to 1953 and preceded the present St. Joseph High Scliool as the first Catholic co-educational high school in South Bend. Several Chicago pastors as­sisted at the jubilee Mass, and Rev. Stanislaus F. Lisewski, C.S.C., D.D., pastor of Holy Trinit>-, gave the jubilee sermon. After Mass there was a jubilee banquet in the Holy Trinity cafeteria, at which the principal speaker was Rev. TJieodore Mehling, C.S.C., provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
From the Alumni office: ^ FRANK J. BARRY, San CIcmcnte. Calif., re­cently visited the campus for the first time since 1929. He was accompanied by his daughter and grandchildren. He had missed seeing PAT Mc­bONOUGH when he was in New York through haWng an old address and beine there on a week­end.—J.E,A. 
1904 
ILVRRY G. HOG.VN, retired banker (but NOT retired lawyer, Uimbcmian, tool and die maker, elder statesman of Fort Wayne, and consultant to the Foundation) had a summer trip to the North­west cut short by hospitalization but Is in shape to cheer the Brcnnan rcnabsancc from the Stadium at the home games this Fall. 
1907 
From BILL DRj\PER in Chicago: "I had every intention of attending this year's reunion, but the problem of properly adjusting to the life of retirement hindered my being on hand. "After retirement Marcli 1, 1956, Mrs. Draper and I started a leisurely drive to" the West Coast. returning home early In May. " I loafed around Ei-anston until I was afraid I would be picked up for loitering, so I opened a Chicago office—on a more or less half-time basis —for a friend of mine. The nature of the work is Market Research. . . . "It so happened I had to be In Minneapolis from 
KENTUCKY—At the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky testimonial dinner for Paul Homung were, left to right: Terry Brcnnan, Rog Huter, Paul Hornung, Harry Stuhldrehcr, and Moose Krausc. 
June 5 to June 14. That is why I was unable to enjoy the many pleasantries so pre\'alent at Notre Dame during Commencement and Reunion time." 
1909 
PAUL .\URTIN-DILLON wrote expressing his sorrow at the recent deaths among Holy Cross priests although FATHER MOLONEY was tlie only one he knew personally. Paul writes: 
"I cliecked over the list of Holy Cross priests now at Notre Dame as this is printed in the Official Catholic Director>-. Names familiar to mc are few indeed. But I am liappy that FATHER JOE MAGUIRE is still on the scene and apparently active. When I was a >-oung boy in prep school I scr\cd his Mass every morning in the convent diapcl. At that time Father Joe himself looked like a boy In his teens. . . . Occasionally I receive a letter from FATHER MATT WALSH and within the last year or so have heard from FATHER CARROLL. .. . I had a wonderful visit with his folks In Limerick—the mother and brother of May Carroll whom you may remember as a nurse in the Student Infirmary at Notre Dame. In the sitting room of. the Carroll home (the house In which Father Pat was bom) there was a big photo of May just as she looked when she was graduated from nurses' school." 
Paul is the author of four published books and one still in manuscript, tentatively titled "Gold, Blue and Emerald Green." 
1911 ^'^ L. Steers 
105 S. LaSalle St 
Chicago 3, lUinois 

1912 ^-^-^^^^^ 
521 BcIIairc Avenue 
Pittsburgh 26, Pennsyl\-ania 

Your self-reinstated secretary- was somewhat dis­appointed at the small turnout for our 45th re­union. The correct list of those who responded to the call of their Alma Mater is: B. J, KAISER, WILLL\M J. PARISH, DONNELLY P. McDO.V­ALD, F. L. MENDEZ, PHILIP J. PHILIP and ED^V'ARD J. WEEKS. 
You will note that in the last issue of Notre Dome ALUMNUS there are ten faces In the pic­ture of the 1912 Class. To save face we Im-itcd four guests to pose with us. This they agreed to do for a free dinner. Thank you ver>- much HARRY MILLER, '10, and ED FIGEL, ni, and you other two gentlemen who shall remain anonymous. 
Have a good look at the picture and see how many of the remaining six you can name. If you are interested to know drop me a line and I uill give you the Hnc-up. 
In my pre-reunlon letter I stated that of the 68 graduates of the 1912 Class 26 were known to be dead, I have since learned that WALTER J. MAGUIRE. M.E., died June 26, 1955, and ROB­ERT J. McGILL, E.E., died Febmarv 9, 1957. I also learned that LEO J- CONDON, E.E., 1224 South Fair Ave., Pana. III., has been an invalid for the past 23 years. Please send him a '*checr-up" note. 
WALTER DUNC/\N and THOMAS A. J. DOCKWEILER sent me their "sorry-can't-be­wlth-you-notcs" also their best wishes to all of you. Tlicy promised to show up for our GOLDEN JUBILEE just five short years hence. JOHN MURPHY was out of the country, otherwise he would have been with us. 
Please send me news about yourself for the next issue of the ALUMNUS and do not forget the current Alumni Fund. The Class of 1912 does not look too good in the report in the last issue of the ALUMNUS, only five contributors and $665.00 as of June 30. Let us make it 50 contributors and at least $5000.00. 
PHILADELPHIA—Walt Grothaus, president of the Philadelphia Club and Bill Whiteside present a set of Lactarc Sunday vestments to Father Laniond of Saint Augustine's parish. 
Reunion 
15 
1Q19 Paul R. Byrne ""'* Box 46 Notre Dame, Indiana 
191 4 ^°° O'Neill 
' ' 1350 No. Black Oak Drive South Bend 17, Indiana 
|0| C James £. Sanford ' ' ' ** 1429 W. Farragut Avenue Clucago 40, Illinob 
Grover F. Miller 
1916 
612 ^Visconsin Avenue Racine, AVisconsin 

RALPH j . LATHROP is \nce PrcsJdt-nt ol Manli and McLennan an'i writes lliat tic lias been married 40 years; July 4 lie uill be 65 and will retire as of August L 
BILL BRADBURY has never been back for a 1915 reunion but promises to make it in I96I; lie practices law in Robinson. Illinois; has had a ver> (•'.ill life; is now a Director of the Xoire Dame Law Association. 
RAY HUMPHREYS is Chief Investigator at the D-strict Atlomey's OiHcc. Denver, Colorado; Ray had sucli a wonderful time at our reunion last v«ar that he returned this year to Join the Glass of 1917. 
From the .Mumni Office: 

TOM O'CONNOR. Rochester's Man of the Year, has been more than 33 years with the Crtholic Press, eight with the Roclicster "Edic" an 1 25 with the *'CathoIic Courier Journal," of which he is News Editor. 
1917 Edward J. McOskcr 
• ' " 2205 Briarwood Road Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio 

From the Alumni OSicc: JAMES D. HAYES received a warm *"weU done" this year as one of 35 who have helped select more than 100,000 District of Columbia residents for the armed forces. He was honored in Wash­ington for 15 years of unpaid volunteer sen'icc wixlt District draft boards. Jim, now chief of the Disability Insurance Claims Division of the Veterans Administration, said, "It's one. thing I'vi; done that I feel proud of." 
•
During the i^'ar Jim was diairman of Local Board No, 9, called the "President's board" because in 1942 Hayes himself registered President Franklin 

D.
 Roosevelt. 

•
."I registered the President on April 28, 1942." Jim says. **It was my biggest day as a draft man. , . . He was ver>' funnv all the lime I was regis­tering him. I had already filled in his weight and height on the back of the card, and he told mc that I had been redding his mail. 


."When it came to the question of who will always know your address, he said. 'Who but Eleanor?' " 
Jim also "registered such men as J. Edgar Hoover, Sumner .Welles. Harrv- Hopkins and Harold Ickcs. 
DANIEL E. HILGARTNER, JR., recently cele­brated 40 years with the Chicago Tribune. Dan is want ad editor of the classiBcd advertising de­partment. Coming to the newspaper in 1917, he started his career as a dassified advertising sales­man. He headed the Loop want ad otliqe and the out-of-town division of dassified before he became want ad editor in 1948. 
Looking font'ard to another 40 years, Dan hopes *';!icy will be as fascinating as the past 40 years on the classified merry-go-round.*' . ­
Dan is a past president of the Alumni -Assoda­tidn and of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago.. He is a football enthusiast and enjoys lawn bowling. 
1918 George E. Harbert ' ' • *' 500 Rock Island Bank BIdg. Rock Island, Illinois 
From the Alumni office: CHARLES W. "GVLL, manager of the Directory Division of Fairchild Pubh'cations, Inc., has retired under the company's pension plan Oct. I, slightly ahead of normal retirement age. Charlie joined the editorial staff of Fairchild in 1919 after ser\-icc as an officer in ^\''orId War I. ^fost of his editorial work ^^'as tn the clothing industr>*. For many years he conducted a column called "Broadway & Scveiitli Avenue" in Women's Wear Daily. After Pearl Harbor Charlie volunteered for active ser\ice as a naval officer and ser\'ed nearly four years. He was Port Director at Granville, France, during tlic invasion and later u'as on duty in Brcmerliavcn, Germany, at the surrender of the German forces. In 1945 Cliarlie returned to Fairdiild to expand the Director!* Division. He is a commander' in the Na\'3l Reserve and a member of tlie Retail Associated Group, the Notre Dame Club of Nc\* York and the Sons of the American Revolution. He has plenty of hobbies to occupy his ' time and believes travel and other thtni;s should be enjoyed when one is "relatlvelv voung." JAMES G. WALUACE has submitted an inter­esting footnote on the recent "Notre Dame Big Leaguers*' article. Jim's postscript, fully substan­tiated by local Iiistorians, follo^vs: "I did not sec the name of PAT MURRtVY, '19, included. Pat pitched for the N.D. varsity in '17 and '19. He joined the Philadelphia Nationals in June, *19. and u-as with them for the remainder of that year, participating in quite a few games. Ever hear of Davey Bancroft, famous shortstop? Well, lie w-as Pat's roomie and taught Pat to chew tobacco—or so the legend goes, Pat i^'as also •with tlie Phillies for a timd early in 1920. . . . "More about those N.D. Big Leaguers. In 'IG and '17. when I was in good old Brownson. a lanky moundsman named ADRIAN LYNCH dished up the Brownson pitdies in tlic Inter-Hall League. Not very peppy or spirited, but good just the same. To the best of my knowledge he never tried out for the varsity—capablv ser\'ed in those da\'S bv SWEDE EDGREN, GEORGE MURPHY, PAT MURRAY and otiiers. 
"Imagine my surprise some years later—probably *19, '20 or '21 — when, cving the baseball sum­maries of the Nciv York Times, I came across the dioicc morsd *LYNCH WINS FOR BROWNS.* The Lynch was Adrian Lyndi. and the Browns were the St. Louis Browns. Furthermore he *\'as from Xotrc Dame—so the article said. Yep. it just had to be our old Browtison Haller. He apparently was with the Browns that one season and, as I recall, won several games. In later years I u-atched carcfullv but never heard or read ^f him again. Maybe FR/VNK MILES (. . . 'Rano* is the one I mean) or better still JAKE KLINE, \-arsity in­ficldcrs of those da>-s, could set the record straight on 'Slim' Lynch (Adrian, that is). ^Vlso on Pat Murray (now principal of the high school at WiU liamson, N. Y., I believe). 
"Best of luck, and keep that ALUMNUS com­ing. It tells us all that's new and flatters us old timers with opportunities to test our memories— even, in cases such as tliis, to 'write the Editor.' " 
10 l O Theodore C Rademakcr 
Peru Foundry Company 
Peru, Indiana 

SISTER M. MAURICITA aVRROLL, S.C.L., a 1957 graduate, is the daughter of MAURICE CARROLL, '19. 
1 920 Jsnics H. Ryan 
107 Magec Ave. 
Rochester 10, N. Y. 

ALONZO E. FINNUP, Garden /City, Kansas, owns and operates the "Oldest Retail Feed Store in the U.S.A." and also works "in real estate. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November^ 1957 
He lias eight grandchildrvn, the oldest o[ whom attained the age of eight last March 7. 
1921 ^^ ^^' ^"ffy 
* • 1101 N.B.C. Bldg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 
192 2 Gerald A. Ashe ' * ^ 39 Cambridge St. Rochester 7, N. Y. 
REUNION ECHOES 

Each reunion in tlie series of five-year rctmioiis celebrated by our class has been a memorable one and quite distinctive. All who attended our 35lh Anniversary Reunion seemed highly pleased with it and returned home more certain than ever that time has not been unkind to the men of '22. The ! old spirit and drive are still a part of the men ! who assembled on the campus and one feels highly honored to be a member of such a class. \Vc arc deeply indebted to JIM ARMSTRONG and to JOHN* CfVCKLEY of the alumni jVssocialion for their splendid arrangements, also to our reunion chairman FRANK R.\NGY MILES for superb direction and to Rang%-*s very capable assistants: AARON HUGUENARD, HAROLD WEBER, FRED DRESSEL, GENE SMOGOR, BERNIE McCAFFERY. PAUL PADEN and the other South Benders of '22. Our successful reunion gatherings arc alivays the result of hard work by the men i of South Bend.—Long distance traveling honors j were f:aptt]Ted by GENE KENNEDY of Los An­geles, and EDDIE BYRNE of Natchez, Mississippi. ! was runner-up.—^Tlic Monogram men were stronnly 
- rtpresentid with HUNK xVNDERSON, DANNY COUGHLIN, CHUCK CROWLEY, CHET 1 GRANT, VINCE HANRAHAN, JOHN I HUETHER, GENE KENNEDY, BOB PHEL.\N, R/VNGY MILES, CHET W\'NNE and others.— Our fine medicos: Doctors ATKINSON, WEIS and SEXTON were not able to appear due lo con­flicting engagements about the same time.— FATHER GEORGE FISCHER, C.S.C., performed admirably as acting chaplain.—Our class dinner in '•• Morris Inn on Friday night was a graiid success and so was an unschcdulfd class breakfast at the same place on Saturday morning when *22 men appeared simultaneously from all directions with empty stomachs lo form a group almost as large as the dinner croup the previous night.—Attorney JAMES VINCENT JONES clarified some legal points for his brother attorney JEROME F. DIXON.—It is regretted that all '22 men in at­tendance were not present for the class group picture; a two-bit fine should . be imposed upon such absentees as HUNK ,\NDERSON, CHUCK CROWLEY, GERALD BRUBAKER. PAT MAN­ION. PAUL PADEN, PAUL PFOHL, BOB PHE­, LAS, WALTER SHILTS, MARK STOREN, HAROLD WEBER and CHET WYNNE.—MOR­. GAN SHEEDY looks abovu the same as in his undergraduate da>-s.—JOHN PAUL CULLEN was tops in poise at the special ceremony wherein he presented a collection of Sherwood Anderson papers to Father Hesburgh for the University Library*, and many *22 men were present lo lend moral support.—The Mass on Saturday morning for de­
•• ceased members of our class" was wdl attended. Celebrant was FATHER GEORGE FISCHER, C.S.C.—Clerks are still tr>-ing to tally the number of Saturdav noon box Innrhes eaten by EDDIE GOTTRY, BRUCE HOLMBERG and JLNf SHAW. Several have asked how come Bruce Holmberg at­tends *22 reunions when actually he was graduated in '23? Big Bruce is the proud holder of one of the few honorary social degrees conferred by our class.—^fany compliments were directed at Frank "Rangy** Miles and his smooth running staff for 
* IcaWng absolutely nothing undone to make our reunion a huge success.—Many recalled, ton. the countless kindnesses arranged by HAROLD WEBER and wife Lucilc for us in *52 at Diamond Lake.— Clevclanders GEORGE KERVER and PETE CHAMPION were ho|din<r their own. also c.\ Clevclander JOHN "TUPPY'* HART now of Cin­cinnati.—EDDIE PFEIFFER and FR^VNK BLOE­MER were filled with the snirit of LouIsvIMp.— Dou-n^talc Indianans RAY KE/\RNS and PHIL KILEY attended, also, upstater MARK STOREN. —n»c Chicago delet;ation wai smaller than cx-Dccted but the old reliables lERRY DIXOX, TOM Mca\BE, PAUL PPOHT, and CHET WYNNE showed.—RALPH COR\'N. ROB GAL­LOWAY. .10HN HUETHER and OLLIE SCHELL were comnnratJvfK- I'»T,IIV aVmt^t cvervthini.—Sn»tb Bcndrrs TOM ""^ARGE'* OWEN*"?. I.^O LOVcnT. PAUL. SCHWERTI.Y and WALTER SHILTS seemed miehtv proud, and richtlv so, of their own work -and that of their reunion boss. Local Chair-
WILLIAM FRANCIS FOX, JR., '20 
William Francis Fo.x, Jr.. who, ac­

cording to Father Tom Burke, "spent 
four years at Notre Dame crabbing 
about marks he didn't get for classes 
he never attended," has been sports 
editor of The hidiaiiapolls News since 
1939 and with it since 1920. 
Bill has a radio program on Station 

WIBC called "The Fox's Den/' in con­
tinuous operation since Jan. 2, 1945. 
For 19 years he has conducted the 
Downtown Quarterbacks Club, a popu­
lar luncheon meeting. His wit as toast­
master has enlivened meetings of the 
South Bend Quarterbacks, and he was 
M.C. at a banquet several years ago for the N. D. football team. 
In 1930 he married Mary Alice Mac-Manus of Bloomfield Hills, Mich. They have four children: Peter Damian, a member of the Society of Jesus; Mi­chael Joseph, N.D. '55, and AVilliam F. Ill, Purdue '57, both in the army; and Mary Sheila, a student at Purdue. 
While writing four columns for The Nezvs and doing six radio programs a week. Bill has managed to author several national magazine articles treat­ing sports as lightly as possible. 
He is proud that he has been accused of being a graduate of almost all the twenty or so colleges and imiversities in Indiana; that he was named Notre Dame Man of the Year, by Indianapo­lis alumni, a few years ago; and that his wife's father, Theodore F. Mac-Manus and his own father, were named Knights of St. Gregory by the Holy Father. 
man Rangy Miles.—^Your secretary was flabber­gas'ted no end when he was called upon to be the recipient of an "appreciation** plaque from his classmates for ser\*ice5 rendered his class in the office of class secretary. Be assured that I do question that I have rightfully merited such an honor, but I do greatly appreciate the thoughtful appreciation of a wonderful group of classmates-for whom it has been my pleasure to engage in secretarial duties for many years. Let us not forget, however, that your present secretary has. not held that position since we were graduated in. 1922. From that year until 1927 your class secre­tary was our good friend FRANK BLASIUS who served with credit and distinction.—Here arc letters-from DOCTOR D.\NIEL SEXTON of St. Louis and JERRY JONES written under heading of Counsel's OfScc, Twelfth Na\-al District, San. Bruno, Calif. Wc greatly regret both were unable-to attend our reunion: 
Dear Kid: It looks vcr>' mucli as though I will not be able-to attend the reunion. I get home June 6th after being away 10 days and it is just impossible for me to turn around and leave for the week-end. I regret ver>' mucIi that I cannot be with you and enjoy the fine reunion I know you will have. We-have our American ^fedical ^Vssociation meeting-that same week in New York City and other spe­cialty meetings that are held at the same time and it is imperative that I attend. I hope everytliing is going along nicely with: you. If you can arrange to get down St. Louts way as long as you are in Chicago and South Bend we would like very much to have a visit from you. While we do not have plans set for the-summer I do not think wc will be back to Minne­sota. The three girls are going to camp up there this year but they are going just the last four Weeks so they will hardly be away before they wilf be thinking about returning home. I am glad to relate to you that wc are all. fine and had a splen­did winter. Mother is reasonably well and going-along satisfactorily. 
Please remember me to all of my good friends and express my regret in not being present. Sincerely yours, Daniel L. Sexton, MS). 
Dear 'Kid* and Gang: I certainly am very sorry that -I fran't be w-itit you for our 35th. Gaad, has it been that long? However, this time I am many more miles removed from N.D. than for our former reunions. Also, the Navy seems to require that its attorneys be on the job, or subject to trail, at all times. I am employed as attorney for the District Public Works Officer of the I2th Naval District and am kept rather busy. The work is vcr>' interesting and the compensation is sufficient even if not in the bracket where I need worry about where lo inv'cst, Wc have been out here for about a year and x half and enjoy the California living conditions e-X­tremely. Our move was necessitated by family-health conditions, including my own. I have been exceptionally well since the move and am well pleased. Afarion has had some heart flarcups which required hospitalization recently but she is now fairly well and ^v•ill probably be O.K. if she con­tinues to realize her physical limitations. Both girls are fine. Enough about me and mine. Buck Shaw is the only member of our class in this area and I have only seen him a few times. He is fine and apparently well pleased with his assign­ment as coach for the new Air Force Academy. He spends about six months here and the others in Colorado. I had to make a trip back to Washington (DC) early in May and I have been wishing It could have been delayed a month so as to let me make the stopover at N.D. for this week-end. But, na luck; the Naw had set It up differently. I flew over the Dome on May 15th and had a few bad minutes. Say 'Hello' lo all the fellows for me and assure them I am really upset at missing. I had been trying to *plan it that way* but it just didn*t work out. Also, if you see my brother Herb, or my brother-in-law Bob CahiU ?et them know you heard from me. Have fun. lift a few for me and re­member us in your more sober moments. As ever, Jerry Jones 
In accordance with Alumni j\ssociation recom­mendations, '22 class elections were held in con­junction with our reunion. We thankfully salute the outgoing officers and bid the new ones welcome. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November, 1957 35 
For your ready reference, here is the list of- the old and new oilicers: 
OUTGOING: Honorar>' president: Charles J. Hirsclibulil, Daniel H. Young; president: Aaron Hugucnard; vice-prcsidciit; Hon. James Murphv (East). A. Harold Weber (Midwest), Edujn J. Byrne (South), Hon. AI Scott (West); treasurer: Fred Drcssel; secretary-: no cliangc. 
INCOMING: President: J. Ralph Coon; Wct­prcsidcni: Vincent Hanralian (East), Chester A. Wynne (Midwest), Frank B. Blocmcr, Jr. (South), Fugenc M. Kennedy (West); treasurer: Dr. Malt •VVcis. 
Our deep s>TnpatIiy is extended to D.VXIEL H. YOUNG on tlic dcatJi of his brother Charles H. -who died June 30 at St. Joscph*s Hospital, S^. Paul, Minn. Mr. Charles Young was very recently retired from business, liaving serx'cd as vice-presi­dent of the Walsh Construction Company of Neu­Y'ork and general manager of the WaUh Canadian Construction Company. He supcr\"iscd construction of Camp Meade, Mar>-l3nd, also air force bases in France and Spain, and ^*"as given a U. S. Na\y citation for construction of invasion boats. Further he was an auihorily on the location of geological deposits of concrete aggregates. We direct our s>'mpathy, also, to tlie widow, sons and daughter of the deceased. 
Mrs. Charles J. (Pat) Hirschbuhl has been tour­ing Europe this spring. VJnce Hanhralian's sister, Jane, is visiting tlie European continent this sum­mer while his sister, Ursula, sees Ireland. Vincc thought the vcr>* best trip he could take was the one to our 33th reunion and so he made it, and was vcr>* happy in his cliolcc. 
K.eumon June67-S 
CLASS 
•Z3 

1923 ^ ^ ^- Biruggncr '^ ^ 2165 Riverside Drive South Bend, Indiana 
Here is tlie first cfTort in our concerted drive to 

bring together for the 35th Reunion of the Class 
of 1923 as large a turnout as we possibly can, in 
ivhat wc expect to be the largest 35tli Class Reunion 
Notre Dame has ever seen. 
I don't mean to dwell ovcrmucli on the in­evitability of deatli, but cold logic and simple arithmetic and mortality tables tell us that none of us (and we're all of us o5 to 60 years old) can afford to miss this one. You can't afford to come? You can't afford not to. News has readied lliis desk of two more dcatlts in our ranks: THOM^VS 
A. WALSH and FATHER JA.MES F. NOLAN. To refresh your racmor>*. Tom worked in his undergraduate days in the cubbyhole in the ^fain Building whid» went by the name of the book store. Father Nolan left Notre Dame to go to St. Midiacl's College and St. Augustine's Seminary in Toronto. He \*'as ordained a priest May 25, 1929, and «*as in recent years a parish priest in a poverty-stricken area of Pennsylvania. 
FRED STEELE was a welcome visiior to South Bend over tlic Memorial Day weekend. Fred, you may remember, has been in enforced retirement for the past five years or so, due to an onset of multiple sderosis. He may be readied by mail at 744 East Nevada Avenue, St. Paul 6, ilinn. 
Two interesting notes were received from FATHER JOHN E. DUFFY, Col. USA Ret., now pastor of Our Lady of Lourdes Church, New London, Ohio. 
JOHN MONTAGUE contributed a hdpful letter in June. Excerpt: "You can add another grand­child to my record. A baby girl arrived a week ago. Another one due in August." (Different parents, John?) 
FATHER JOHN C-W.-VNAUGH, Director of the 

N.D. Foundation, reported: "Your dass letter of May is a dinger. Because of it, I have resolved to make it a date in 1958." Well, Father, I'll be there also. That leaves only 299 to go. 
JACK NORTON, class president, has been bom­barding me with instructions on the Reunion. He has appointed a national ciommittcc, headed by himself, to whip up enthusiasm. A local commit­tee, headed by JOE NYIKOS, has also been formed. A start of a sort was made at the last reunion weekend. 1 enjoyed \'isiting with Jack, DICK NASH, ED SHE.\ and men of other dasscs. For a list of '23 registrants last June sec the dass notes in tlie last ALUMNUS. The committee: National, JACK NORTON, Chairman, VINCE BROWN, MERLIN ROLWING, TO.M LEF, ED SHE/\, FRANCIS WALL/\CE, LINUS GLOTZ­BACH, JOHN CHAPLA, AVILLLVM VOSS, HEN­RY Lx\UER,MAN, ED\\'ARD D. KELLY, DICK N/VSH and LOUIS DcSMET; Local, JOE NYIKOS, Chairman, FR. JOHN CW/VNAUGH, ART DIED­RICH, ED KRELMER, LEO RIEDER and CLIFF WARD. I forgot to mention that .ART DIEDRICH had a slight heart attack recently. He is out of danger, and wc feel sure he'll be a\"ai!ablc for committee. 
In the last Alumnus men of '23 were mentioned or pictured not less than nine times; Mrs. PAT­RICK C. DOR^\N, ELMER B. JOHNSTON (mis­named Johnson), CLIFFORD WARD, FATHER JOSEPH .Mc/\LLISTER, FATHER THO.M.VS J. BRENNAX, FATHER JOHN a\V/\NAUGH, JOHN BRILEY, etc 
From the Alumni office: HARRY FL^VNNERY, television and radio co­ordinator for the AFL-CIO , has been a prominent by-line twice in the Ave Maria in recent issues, once with an article on General Gruenther, and once with an inter\'icw with Robert Kennedy of the ^^cCle]Ian Committee. 
GEORGE J. HAHN, for 30 years vice-president in charge of sales and inerdiflndising for Colonial Woolen Mills, Cleveland, has organized the firm of George J, Holin and Sons, which will be exclusive national fabric sales representatives for the Colonial Co. George has four sons, two daughters and two granddaughters. George, Jr., is a junior at Notre Dame this year, and the second oldest son, John Nicholas, is a freshman. George also has tics with 
KANSAS CITY—l^cw Au-xiliary officers are, from left to right: Mrs. Philip Kinvan, corresponding secretary; Mrs. Brjxe Eck, vice president; Mrs. Thomas Reardon, president; Mrs. Bernard Finucane, recording secretary; Mrs. George McLiney, treasurer; and Mrs. AVilliam Robertson, auditor. 
36 Notre Dame AlumnuSj October-November, 1937 
the class of '25 tliroiig}i lus good friend and broihcr-in-lau-, JOHX HURLEY, of Toledo. 
1 094 J^nies R. Mcchan '^ ^ 329 So. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Indiana 

FATHER TOM KELLEY was a welcome part of a very pleasant cvcnrng the visUing Armstrongs spent at the University of Portland in July. The former Class Secretary seems to be retaining all his youth and enthusiasm In the coeducational and pro­gressive atmosphere of the growing Northwest college 
JOE RYAX, professor of composition in the Xotrc Dame English department, left after summer school to visit tlif West Coast, including VERNOX "TEX" RICKARD in HoIIx^vood. 
1925 J°^° P- Hurley '^• ^ 2085 Brookdalc Road Toledo 6, Ohio 

When you go to a Xotrc Dame graduation ihc&e days you arc bound to meet some '23ers whose sons arc getting their sheepskins. I happened to be around because a nephew of mine, John Hammett, graduated. I also picked up my daughter, who will be a senior at St. ^tary*s. BILL BELL was there as his son was in the class of '57, as was HAXK \\'URZER, whose son "Buzz," got his degree- LEO GRACE*s boy, Chuck, got his sheep­skin too, so wc had quite a reunion of '25ers. 
At the St. Mar>**s Parent Weekend this Spring, I saw GEORGE LUD\VIG, GEORGE BISCHOFF, JOHX DROEGE, and ED OTOOLE. TOM GREEX (class of '27) is still full of pep and southern iwang and the father of eiijht children. PAT a\XXY and TO.M BYRXE also have daugh­ters there but Pat and Tom were also at X'.D. a few years after us. 
PAUL SAGSTETTER, whom I wrote about in the last issue of the Alumnus, died in June. I didn^t learn the details but I knew that Paul was going into the hospital for a check-up. He hadn't been feeling wcH, but the notice of his death u-as a terrific shock to me became he looked fine. Please remember Paul in your prayers. Paul gave me a check for our ^fass Fund. Little did he know he would be the ncNt one to participate in that Fund. 
On my return from Florida, I received a letter from JOE TOOLEX, from Indiaatlantic, Florida (1 had been in his to\%*n only a week before, but I didn*t know Joe was there.) 
Joe's note . . . *'Just learned today of the death of HOWARD SPEXCER last Friday, April 19. Don't know any of the details but thought Vd write you so you could get it in the ALUAfXUS. Howard had not been well for a number of years. I know his many friends in the class of *25 w*ill remember him in their prayers. 
"I was shocked to hear of RAY CUXXIXG-HAM's death and of the others also. We're all u-alking toward the sunset, a little faster no»v than a few years ago. Regards, Joe Toolen." 
Tlianks, Joe, and you can be sure the boys will pray for "Howie." I've advised H/\XK WUR2ER and a High Mass will be said for htm. Since writ­ing this about "Howie," I was in Chicago and called his mother. He had been III quite a long time. ^frs. Spencer is going to have a memorial in the new Holy Cross Seminary for Howie. So be sure to remember these fellows In your Masses and prayers. 
Howard's mother is ifrs. R. M. Spencer, -1036 N'orth Avers Ave., in Chicago. If any of you fellows pass through please give her a call. She will be glad to hear from you. 
A note from Armstrong advised me that J. FRED SALLO\VS of 3719 South Carroll St.. South Bend 14, Ind., died on March 10 of this year. 
As Joe says. "We arc walking a little faster toward the sunset,*' so let's keep those greenbacks coming to Hank Wurzer for the ifass Fund. 
To get on a happier note, I received a nice letter on "U. S. Department of Agriculture Farm­ers Home Administration" stationery'. Box 64, Hot Springs, South Dakota, from K/\RL V. COXXELL. 
"My vvife Eleanor has been prodding me to get this letter off as I sec by the ALUMNUS I had left Minneapolis some time ago . . . about fifteen years ago. 
"I w*as transferred here as a Unit Manager of this three-county unit a year ago, and we love the Black Hills. I would like to have any of the 
JOHN T. BURKE, '29 

John T. Burke of Boston and Clin­ton. Mass., was named this year by Massachusetts Governor Foster Furcolo to the post of State Commissioner of Commerce out of a field of 100 top business and industrial leadei"s. He has given up his position as Vice-President of the prosperous John C. Dowd Ad­vcrstising Agency. 
Before entering the Na\7 for four years as a Commander in "World War II John conducted his own advertising and business promotion agency. He has also been Vice-President of Cham­bers and Wiswall Advertising Agency from 1946 to 1950; President and Treasurer of Burke Advertising Asso­ciates, Inc., from 1950 to 1952 and Vice-President of the Dowd Agency with headquarters in Boston and New York since 1932. 
John is the brother of the Ver\' Rev. Cyril AV. Burke, O.P., Vicar General of the Dominican Order, just returned from two years of sei-vice in Japan. 
A product of Clinton schools and the Boston University School of Law after Notre Dame, he has been Presi­dent of the Boston N. D. Club, whicli elected him "Man of the Year" in 1955. He has served as Chairman of the March of Dimes, Multiple Sclero­sis and Salvation Amiy Campaigns and is a member of the Naval Reserve Officers Club, Na\7 Club, AVardroom Club, Corinthian Yacht Club and Ensnneers Club. 
gang who arc \'acationing out here to give us a ring. "Sure enjoy reading about the '25ers In the-ALUMXTJS. Do you hear from PAUL DUFAUD? Is VIXCE FAG^\X still in Chicago? Hope to see the Minneapolis fellows this summer. "We had plans all made for the last class reunion and they threw a State Conference which I couldn't get out of. Sure hope to make the next one or get down for a game. Best regards to all the fellows-and I am sure they appreciate, as I do, the good job you arc doing as our class secretary." ED BAKER of 3602 Klrkway Ct., Fort Wa>-ne, is a Controller and Corporation Secretary. Ed has a wife, Christine, a son, David, IS and a student at Marmion ^^ilitary Academy, and a daughter, Jt> Ann, 19, at St. Teresa's College at Winona, Minn. He would like to hear from PAUL DUFAUD,. last address—^Tucson, Arizona. AWll Paul, let's hear from you! That's two pal» in a row u-ho want to know about you. WILLIAM R. BELL, Division Sales Manager. Taylor Instrument Co., has a son, Billy, 20, who is a Senior at X.D., Maureen, 13. and David, 10. He would like to hear from EDDIE WELSH in Vista, Calif. '*My son is the senior trainer for the varsity . . . Pat Canny's old job," he says. PETER PAUL DUPAY, 34 ^Vashington Ave., Baskcy Ridge, N. J., is an architect. He writes, **I 
am at present with Brother Cajctan V. B. Bau­mann, O.F.M., Architect, also some private work." LEX HESS, of 200 Linda Drive, San Antonio, 
Texas, thought that his old classmate and friend JOHX HURLEY threw him a cur^e last fall when he ordered tickets for the Oklahoma game, because our reunion was at the Michigan State-
game. JOSEPH P. BURKE writes that he has seen .\XSE MILLER. JOHX P. KE.XXA fdeceased), DAS O'XEILL, "BUGS" WALTHER and GEORGE \'ERGAR^V through the years. He has been employed by U. S. Social Setnirity Administration in Xew York area office for the-past eight years. Prior to that he was in with another U- S. Government service and pri**ate­law practice.. It was fine hearing from you and thanks for the Mass Fund money. NTERG FAG^\N writes: "I certainly .did enjoy the nice long reports on so many of our old class­mates in the current ALUMXUS. "It seems your request for information must have been almost as successful as the Student Foundation Drive on the Campus, which hit ai mere 99.5 per cent response. *'I wonder if in any- of your letters you have received any word from, or about. Si\NTL\GO (MIKE) \'ELr\SCO. As I recall, Mike was from Manila, and I believe his family was connected \rith a department store or some similar business. He was one of the Walsh Hall gang who happened to be a good friend of mine on the campus. "I was much interested to read your note that you uill be getting up to Maryknoll occasionally. It so happens that I was there m\-sclf for a Sunday-High Mass at the seminary about a month ago. 
One of my young nephews is there and is an.xiousIy looking for^\*ard to his foreign missionary service. "Three other couples with whom we play bridge regularly and Dorothy and myself have alreadv made plans to attend the X''a\y game, X'ov. 2." Verff, it's all right to bring your friends to the­Xa\-y game reunion of our class on X^ov. 2. ^Ve have the same Xfahogany room lined up .. . at 
the ilorris Inn. I only hope this is published before the game starts as I missed the deadline, due to my last-minute rush of road work before the Furniture Market. 
From the Alumni office: GEORGE E. LUDWIG. general manager of Michigan Consolidated Gas Company's Atuskegon District, was recently elected president of the Michigan Gxs Association, according to - MAL KXAUS, '26. 
IQO A Rudolph A. Goepfrich 
• '^" 1109 N. Qevdand Ave South Bend 28, Ind. 
(Ed. Xotc: In between deadlines, Rudy went to Europe on business for his employer, the Bendix Corp. Mrs. K. accompanied him.—J.C.) 
As may be deducted from the amount of class ncu's in the last issue of the ALUMNUS, the 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November, 1957 37 
rfsponsc lo tlic qm-sticiiniairc I M*III out was quite tiooil. Some rrpHcs caiiu- in aflcr ihe deadline for llic last issue and the>e are beini; proentcd Iiere. Tliere arc still a .c<KxiIy number from whom 1 have not heard but am liojnni; that they will come across shortly, 
REV. HOWARD J. KENNA is nov»- president of the University of I'ortlaiid. lie was born on Oc­tober 16. 19(11. and r^aine to Not re Dame front Jamestown. X. D. He received his A.B. at Notre Dame in 1926, M.S. in 1932 and Lilt.D. (Hon.) in 1933. In additii>ti. Father Keniia attended Catholic University of America 1927-29 and Johns Ifoplfins University I931v;i6. In I9JG iic received an honorary* Sc.D. from Universidad Catolica de Chile. Santiago- He js a member of jhe Governor's Com­mittee on Education beyond Hiuh School, uf the State of OreiioM. and on the Itoard of Directors of the Association of Independent Colleges of Orecon. Some of the iniponant po^ts which he lias held in the past are: Superior, Moreau Seminaiy. Noire Dame, 1937^3: Directtrr of Siudiev. University of Noire Dame, 1944-49; Vire-I'iesident. .Academic Affairs. Unive.>ily of Notre Dann-. 1949-30; As­sistant Superior General. Concreiration of Ifolv Cross, 193U-:i3; Hector. Holy Crovs C.»llej:e. ^\•asll­inirton. D, C . ]!*42-33: President. University of Portland. 1933^. He is a member of the Knichts of Columbus, 4th depree; Elks. University Chib of Portland. (\\*e can all he proud of these great accomplishments »»f a rla-^niale of ours. There is a good picture <)f Father Kenna on pace 32 of the Aup.-Sept. "57 is-ue of the .ALUMNUS.) 
JOSEPH R. WAGNER lists hU address as New Clavk ICotel, 42G &mth HiU Si.. Los Angeles 13, 
Calif. Joe was born November 7, 1902, came u> 
N.D. from Tillin, Ohio, and received his IICS de­gree ill '26. He is diting office work wJih Handy Spot, Inc., Los Angeles, Calif. 
MICHAEL B. REDDLXGTON after receiving his AU ai Notre Dame, returned lo his home town of Indianapolis, Ind., where he is practicing law in his own oifice. His specific job is Corporation Counsel, head Dejiartnient of Law, City of Indian-ai)olis. On several <»ccasions he has served as .Acting Mayor »»f Indianapolis. Mike is unmarried. S<ime of the oHiceb he has held: Deputy Pntsecnior-. Maritiri County. Ind.; City .Attorney and Corpora­tion Counsel, City of Indianapolis: Attorney for Insurance Department, State of Indiana; member. Knights of Columbus, past advi>cate, Indianapolis Council; Head. .Mum'cipal Division. Indianapolis Red Cn»ss Drive 1937; .American. State and In­dianapolis Itar -Associations. In 19.38 he published an article: "Municipalities in Action'' in Nati<tnal Institute Municipal Law Ollicers. Mike woidd like to hear from JOHN E. RVAN and LVMAN CL.ARK. For news about classmates he write>: 
•'CLAUDE PITZENBERGER, real estate man wlujse daughter is beintl married this niutith (May); CH.ARLEY .M.ASON, about top engineer, Indian­apolis Divivion. Indiana Bell Telephone; JOE QUINL.AN, Plant Expansion En.gineer. same Indi­ana Bell; BOB GA\'IN, Accounting Division. In­diana Bell; STANLEY BOYLE, Purchasing Agent. Reillv Enterprises. Indianapolis." 
ALLF-V RUSSELL TRA\'IS; originally from LaPorte. Indiana, is now living in Santa Monica. Calif. He was born «ni Janiiar>' 12. 1902, received an LL.B. at Notre Dame, then a Bachelor of .Arts 
degree from Southern California in 1947-50. Al is in the Department of Public Works in Los An­geles, Calif, He was married on September 19, 1933; they have no children. From 1942-44 he was a Stair Sergeant In the U. S. .Army. He Is a Master Mason. -AI would like u* hear from H.AR­OLD ROBERTSON and EDWARD DUGGA.N. He hears occasionally from PETER M. LaCA\'.A, Mishawaka, Ind., and Lake Wawasee. 
AUSTIN K. HALL seni ine a nice letter to­gether with his ciuestioimaire. In it he said: ""I am ready for the '61 reunion. The last one was a grand experience and. God willing, I'll be there for (he others." (Thanks, .Austin; hope il's catching.) .Austin was born on October 6, 1903. came to .\'.D. fnun Memphis, Tenn.. and received a B.S. in .Architectural Engineering. Now he Is back in -Memphis and a partner in the architectural 6rni, Hall and Nitrtoii. He lists real estate as his sec­ondary business. Austin was married on June 9. 1939, to Eleanor Elizabeth Forester and they have two cirU and a bov; Eleanor Eli/abeih 12. .Austin K., Jr., II, and Ann .Miller. 9, Oilices held: Secretary, TenMessci? Chapter, American Iiislilule of .Architects, 1941-2; -Advocate. Knights of Columbus No. 616. 1944: Director. St. Dominic: School for Bovs (Prl\ate Doniinlcan SCIKKII), 1936-7; Presideni. Village Civic Club. 1949. Austin says he is tin-last living member of his college; however, he would like lo hear from TO.VY ROXAS, Plillip­plnes—"old bridge and 500 partner against ED­\\'ARD ROWLEY and FRENCHY DOHOGNE. To the question: "List the classmates whom yon see or hear front regularly or occasionally." .Anstin writes: *'Tlie particular ones I used to correspond 
John S. Glcason, '36, prominent Chicago banker (second from Icfl), smiles at the croud which has just elected him National Commander of the American Leijion in Atlantic. City's Convention Hall. By his side arc his uifc Mary Jane and .sons Richard, Daniel, John S- HI and Thomas. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November, 1957 
JOHN J. WINBERRY, *28 
A lirclcss worker for the NcLrc Daiuo 
Foundation whose cfl'ons have con­
trihiued greatly to the welfare of the 
Univei'sity is John J. WinheriT. 
After Notre Dame John went lo 
Fordhani University Law School and 
is presently an attorney and coiinsellor­
at-law with offices in Rutherford, New 
Jersey. He was a captain in the U. S. 
Marine Corps dining AVorld AVar II. 
As former counsel to the congress­ional committee investigating executive agencies and as New Jei^sey's assistant attorney general in 1947 John received recognition for outstanding seivice. He was also a special consultant to the K e f a u V e r Committee investigating organized cnnic in inter-state com­merce. 
In 1939 John was president of the Notre Dame Club of New Jei-sey. and he has been New Jersey governor of the Notre Dame Foimdation since 1933. 
John lives at 34 Noll Terrace, Clif­ton. N. J,, with his wife and fom* vouns; children. 

uiih, WILHUR MtELROY .-tnd CLAUDE JOHN­SON, an- dfCf.TSfti. Used lo Iirar from FRED LINK, bill not for M-voral yi-ars. Last time I saw Fred was in .\'cw Orleans duriiiij ilic Notre Danm Dance and Rally before the last Tnlane game In that city. Have not heard from GERALD TLM­,\|ONS since the early thirties. As for other class years, I sec Theodore (Freiichy) DoUu};iie quite often; he represents electrical equipment mannfac­lurcrs." (Note from secy.—Gerry Tinitnons is on our "niissint;" list. .Anyone knouinji of Ins wliere­abouts. please give me his address,') 
HAROLD WILLIAM CAREY, M.D., from Ar­
gyle, Wisconsin, now has his home and business in Lancaster, Wisconsin. He was boni on November 
4. 1902, attended Notre Dame from 1922 to 1925. then got bis B.S. and ^^.D. degrees from Loyola Medical in 191^0. He is a practicing physician and surgeon. Harold was married on .August 28, 1929. and has four children and two grandchildren. Chil­dren: Terrcnce 2'i, Dennis 23. Slicila 18. and Catbleen 12. Grandcbildren: Terrence. Jr. 16 mo. and Mary 2 mo. Terrence graduated from Notre Dame in 1952. Dennis spent one year at N.D. in 1952 but is now at Marquette Dental. Terrence is workini; for Illytbe and Company. Chicago. Harold was President of the Grant County Medic.il S«K:icty in I945-fi and since that time has been Secretar\'­Tre-vurer of ibis same organization: he Is a member of the Knights of Columbus and the Elks. 
ANTONIO ROXAS* home .iddress Is 54 Del Fan. I'asay CJly, Fbilippini^. His buMness address is: Roxas y Compania, Edificio Soriano. I'la/a Cer­vantes. Manila. Tony was born on .April 5. I9CM>. At Notre Dame be rt-ceived a Bachelor of Phllos­opliy in Foreign Commerce degree. Today he is llie managing partner of Roxas y Compania and I'resldeiit of Centra! -Vzucarera Don Pfdro. He ha'' many secondary business or professional interests, viz: I—Vice Cbalrnian of the Board of La Fabrlci dc Cer\"e/a de San Miguel—San Miguel Brewery: 2—Nfember of the Board and Executive Committee of the Commonwealth Insurance Company: 3— .\tember of the Board of Bislii; Bay Lumber Com­pany; 4—Vice Chairman of the Board of .A. Soriani* and Company: 3—Member of the Board of Indus­trial Textile Manufacturlnii Company of the Phil­ippines; C^—Member of the Board of the I'billpplne Oil Development Company; 7—Member of the Boartl of Sherwin-Williams Pfills.. Inc.; 8—Member f>f the Board of San MIyuel. Fabrira de Cerva/a v Matta, S, .A.. I.erida. Spain. Tonv w.-is married on July 2G. 1937 and has two children—.Maria del Carmen. 18. and .Antonio Jo>.e. 15. Until 1955. Tony w;is a member of the Hoard of Trustees and of tile Executive Committee of the Philippine Susiar .Association. From 1950 to I95fi. member of the Board of Directors of the '"Camara de Comerclo Espanola."' Since 1955. President of the Sociedad EspaiHuia <le neiieficrncia. Tonv's roommates were JACOBO XOBEL, ALFONSO 7.0BEL, E.STEBAN 
R. DePOMBO and JOSE TORIELLO and be would like to bear from all of I hem as well a­otlier cla>smates. 
JOHN J. RV.AN, »uir genial clxvs president, was • Ixirn on Srpiember 9. 1904, antl came to Niure Dame from Rusbville, Indiana. Befoie becomlnir piesideni. he was your Class Secretary and wrote many a bree/y column for [be .ALU.M.VUS. John received a Ph.B. in Commerce and is now assistant manager of George NL Coale Company in Chicago, I have bad a luimber of pleasant visits with him tliere. Joiin served wlib the U. S. .Army Engineer'­from 1943 to 1945. He started as a captain, ended as a major and recently retired from the Anuy Reserve as a Lt. Colonel. Jolin was married im November 3, 192fi. He and his wife Ona have Dennis J.. 29. and Sheila Ryan Wiley, 26. Also five graiidcliildren—Michael Ryan 5. Patrick Ryan 

4. Timothy Ryan 2. Frank. Wiley 3 and Catherine Wiley I. (He says: *'.Ask in .August for the next Wiley.'') Demi is graduated from Northwestern in 1951 and Is now with Farnsworth In Ft>rt U'ayne, Ind. Slieila graduated In 1954 from Loyola. Chi­cago, and is now witb lier husband. Noibert. at Vetville. Nt>tre Dame. Some years ago John Was president (also treasurer! of the Notre Dame Club of Pitf'biirgh. John and Ona have just returned from a three-week vacation trip. They visited in Miami, Fla.. flew to Jamaica for a week, then to Pittsljurcb. Since retiirnliii: be has talked to GEORGE HARTNEIT who Is now feeling fine. 
REV. LEO W. GORMA.V, fri>ni Merrill. WU.. received iHi A.B. degree in o»ir Class of '26. .After­wards be attended Catholic L'niversitv of .America. 1926-31: received S.T.B. in 1929 and M.A. In 1931. Presently be is assl>tanl master of novices and pro­fessor of Latin in the Bennington Catludlc High School. Benningtim. Vt. 
AX'ALTER TROHAN is now Bureau Chief of the Chicago Tribune Press Service in Washington. 
D. C. I bad the opportunity to visit Waller and had lunch with him while on a business trip to Washington in May. Walter is looking and feeling fine and takes a trip to Europe (piite often, mostly to Spain. He came to Notre Dame from Chicago and after graduating A.B., worked some years on the Tribune in Chicago. "Radio commentating'* is a secondarj* business with Walter. On Nfarch 17, 1929." he' married Carol Rowland and they have Carol 25. Waller. Jr. 23. and Nancy 18 and grandchildrrn Thomas GIi»ver. 2, and Laurie Glo­ver, 2 weeks. Carol graduated from the Umversiiy 
THOMAS B. KENEDY, '42 

This year the coveted Thomas More Associated Medal, presented for the outstanding Catholic publication of 1956, went to P. J. Kenedy & Sons, New York, the oldest Catholic pub­lishing house in the U. S., for its four-volume edition of Butlers Lives of the Saints, edited by Donald Attwater. Accepting the award on behalf of the firm was Thomas B. Kenedy, Vice-President and Publisher-Editor in charge of trade books. 
After his graduation from Notre Dame Tom Kenedy entered the Navy. From 1942 to 1946 he served as Naval Communications Officer in the .Armed Guard and was discharged with the rank of Lieutenant. 
fn 1946 Tom joined the family publishing firm, established by his great-grandfather in 1826. In addition to his role of Vice-President and Pub­lisher he is Editor of Tlie Official Cath­olic Directory, a publication issued annually since 1822. 
Tom succeeds his father as the only Catholic representative to The .Asso­ciation of Statisticians of -American Religious Bodies. He is Secretary of The Catholic Poetr\- Society of Amer­ica and a Director of The U. S. Cath­olic Historical Society. 
He was married in 1945 to the fonncr Rita Cuzzi. They live' in Pelham Manor, N. Y., and have four children, Patricia Joan, Elizabeth Ann, Paul John and Carmela Therese. 
These eight beaming faces all belong to grandchildren of Alonzo Finnup, '20, Garden City, Kansas. The eight little Finnups, the oldest of whom just reached the age of eight, are: front TOW (left to right), Stephen Alonzo, Mary Therese, Elizabeth Anne, Cecilia Marie, and Kathleen Jeanne; back row (left to right), Christopher, Michael and Gerard Joseph. 
of Arizona In 1953, PIu Beta Kappa and many Iiotiors and acti\-iucs. Slic is married. Walter, Jr., received an A.B. at Notre Dame in 1956 and is now attending Georgetown I-aw Scliool. Nancy is attending St. Mar>-'s College. AValter has held V'arious titles in newspaper organizations, member Arts and Lcllers Advisory Board at N.D.; member of various advisory boards at other scliools, largely in Ci%il War field. His publications arc too nu­merous to list. AVhilc \Tsiting with \VaIter, wc tried to locate ALFRED J. CONNOLLY at the address whicli wc have on our class roster; however, wc were unable to do so. When 1 returned home I had a questionnaire from Al, postmarked the same dav 1 was visiting Waller in Washington. 
ALFRED J. CONNOLLV now lives at 3141 Highland Place, N.^V., Washington, D. C. He is a Recreation Consultant in the Recreation De­partment of tlic Government of the District of Columbia. Al was bom on October 15, 1898, and came to Notre Dame from Boston, Mass. He re­ceived a certificate in Boy Guidance in 1926. Be­fore tliat he attended Boston College 1919-20, George Washington University 1920-22 and Georgc­town University 1923-24. His military record— A.E.F., 1917-19 (101st U. S. Engineers, 26th Div.), 1st Lt.,cMoraIe Dcpt., U. S. Army, 1941-42 (med­ical discliargc), captain, retired. He is on the membership committee. Society of American Mili­tary Engineers. 
VICTOR F. LEMMER is the agent for the Gogebic Industrial Bureau (composed of the iron ore mining industry); he conducts public and educational relations. He was bom on June 18, 1898, and came to Notre Dame from Escanaba, Michigan. In addition to his studies at N.D. he also had short courses at the University of Wis­consin and Harding College at Searcy, Arkansas. As a secondary business, \^c and his w^fc own and operate the Victor F. Lcmmcr Agency (general insurance) in Ironwood, Midi., where he now lives. Vic was married on August 22, 1928 and has a family of four children: Wlliam P., Marianne Lcmmcr Rose, Helen B. and Marguerite Lemmcr Desotcllc. They arc all married, except Helen, who teaches at Ely, Minnesota. There arc three grandchildren, Catherine and Steven Lose and Marie C. Lcmmer—all under five years of age. All four children are college graduates—^William from Villanova University and Marquette Univer­sity (law); Marianne front Marquette Uni\*ersity 
(B.S.
 in nursing); Helen from St. Catherine's Col­lege, St. Paul (B.S. in physical education) and Marguerite from Mount Mar\- College, Mih\'3ukec 

(B.S.
 in occupational therapy). In 1939, Vic was coordinator of the Michigan State ^Vclfare Depart­ment at the State Capital, Lansing. He is the agent of tlie University of Notre Dame Gillcn Foun­dation of Michigan. From 1931 to 1939 he was auditor for Gogebic County; then became agent of the Gogebic Industrial Bureau. He was president of the Historical Society of the State of Michigan in 1956. Held offices in Fourth Degree, K. of C ; Rotary Club, etc On VTirious state educational study commissions and committees. (Sec Catholic "WTio's WTio in America.*') Vic is a contributor to the Chicago Tribune "AVakc of the News" for over 25 years and docs free-lance newspaper and magazine writing as a hobby. He also docs a great deal of public speaking on history and economic subjects. 


AWURICE J. COUGHLIN is back in his ole home town of Erie, Pa., practicing law. He was bom on February 21, 1902, and attended Notre Dame from 1921 ihrough 1928. He received de­grees in 1926 and 1928. As a secondary' business, Mauric lists: City Solicitor Office, Erie, Pa. On June 4, 1943, he married Frances E. TcfTt. They have no children. He was chairman of the Erie County Democratic Committee 1938-9 and 1944-5 and a member of the Board of Governors of the University Club for twelve years. 
HERBERT A. EGGERT, B.S.JLE,, ^%-as bora on May 31, l90i, came to Notre Dame from Chi­cago, 111., and now lives and works in Oak Park, 
III. Herb is with Huskt Products, Inc., and is Application Engineer, support systems for power cables. He was married on June 15, 1929 and has three children: Jean 25, Mary Ann 22 and James 
18. Jean graduated from Iowa State College in 1953 and is now a refrigerator-freezer specialist with Hot Point Institute, Chicago, Mary Ann is a sec­retary-accountant with the United Wall Paper Company. James is no\v at N.D.—Class of *60. Kerb has had \*arious articles published in coal and heating magazines in the '30's. He mentions that JOHN TUOHY is in real estate and insurance in Oak Park, HI. BOB LaFOLLETTE is in Interna­
tional Har\'cster Engineering and ANDY CONLIN 
is Vice President. Crear Clincli Coal Co. 
RONf.\N C. FELDPAUSCH u-as bom June 4, 

1903, came to N.D- from Hastings, Mich. After 
receiving a Ph.B, in Commerce, he returned to 
Hastings where he is, now living and is president 
and general manager of the Fcldpausch Food Center 
Stores. He is also president of tbe Grand Rapids 
Wholesale Grocers and Director of Nfulier-Grocer 
Baking Co. His first wife, Margaret Parker Fcld­
pausch, died on October 15, 1953, and he married 
Lenoir Sprccn on Jfay 16, 1935. Children: R. K., 
27, N.D. Class of • '51. who is now sccrctarj*­
treasurcr of Fcldpausch Food Center; P. Tom, 25, 
Class of '53, is now \icc-prcsident; Mrs. Anne 
Hubert, 23, attended St. ^fary's '52 and *53 and 
is now a houseivife. (That's quite a family busi­
ness you have there, Roman.) There are seven 
grandchildren: Mark Fcldpausch 6; Bill Fcldpausch 
4, Jim Fcldpausch 6 mo,; Mike Hubert, Bob Hu­
bert 4; Peggy 1J4 and Kimberly Anne, 9 mo. 
Roman was president of tlic Holy Name Society, 
1927-32; president. Hastings Chamber of Commerce, 
1939-40; president. Hastings Rotary Club, 1946-47; 
and president, Grand Rapids Produce, Inc. 1949­
56. He would like to hear from CHARLES HEINTZ. He hears from ROBERT DOLEZAL of Carroll, Iowa. 
JAMES A. RONAK is an attorney In Chicago, his home city when he was at Notre Dame. He was bom on July 2, 1904. After receiving his .\.B. at N.D., he attended Loyola Univcrsit\- (Chi­caeo) Law School where he received his J.D, in 1931, Jim's secondary btLsincss is real estate. He married Nfarprirct Af, Maloncy on Julv 2 (his birthday). 1929. and they have a daughter and three sons. Tite daughter, ifrs, Margaret M. Healy. 27, graduated from ^fount Mar>' College, Milwaukee, in 1952 and is now a housewife: Dr. James A. Ronan, Jr.. Xf.D.. 26 (BS. in Pre-Nfed. —N.D. 1953). is now an interne at St. Luke's Hos­nital. Chicago; John E.. 24 fB.S. Arch. Eng. N.D. '56). is now an architectural cnirinrcr in Dallas, Texas: Martin T.. 17, will enter N.D. cneinecring in 1957. Jim has one grandchild, Susan Healy. 1. and sav's two more grandchildren arc expected during the next few months. Among the ofHces which .Tim has hdd arc: State Chairman. Demo­cratic Party of Illinois. 1951 to present: Knichts of Columbus. \'nrioiw oflires since 1931: Fourth D'-erce. K. nf C.: LaSalle General Assembly (Chicaeol. x-ariout ofHces sinre 1932: Faithful Na\*i­catnr 1948-54: prcsentiv Faithful A'lni'rnl. Tim 'V-"MH lil-c to hear from PAUL FT.EXfTXG. FRAN*K BON and a number of others who did not nttcnd our 25th or 3nih reunions. Jim also 5a\-s; "I sec mo«t of the 1926 members who are in and around Chic^<?n, T nrnmisc to write at more lencth about them "ne of thesr d-»v=—^t le;»<t mv Intentions in that dirertinn are iifKid." (I'm looking forward to thU. Tim.) 
FR^\NCfS A. MEKUS ?t*^ndcd Notre Dame from Scqtcmhcr. *2I. to T«nc. *24. and then from Sep­tember. '25. to June. '26. when he received a Bachelor of Philosophv in ForelfTi Commerre de­cree, Fran was born on Deremher 7. 1903. and *-amc to Notre Dame from Jewell. Ohio. He now lives in Frfmnnt. Ohio, an*! U cTf-cutii'e vicc­oresident of the Crofhm Cnlnrtial Bank in that city. He was married Julv ^0, l^Sl: thev have no children. Ff-»n '^^"s nf^^c^^ held are **too niimernn* to list." ^f* w-^idd I'^-e to hear from BOTl niVOV a"^ T:PXE(rr LANDRY. 
JOSEPH A. NAVARRE is commissioner of in­surance. State of Michigan; secondary business, lauyer. Wliile at Notre Dame. Joe's home city was Xfonroc, Micli. His home is now in Jackson. Mich., and he shows his business address as Lansing. Xfich. Joe u-as bom on January 22. 1904. He received his A.B, at N.D., then attended University of Mirhigan Law ScIiOol, where he cot his LL.B. in 1930. On September 24. 1930, he married Ruth Howlctt. Tliey have the following children: Joseph A. HI, who graduated from Michican State Universitv in 1954 and is now sales supervisor. Armour & Company. Jackson, Mich.; Robert AVard Navarre craduatcd from Notre Dame in 1955 and is nox*- with the U. S. Army in Ger­many; James Richard; ^fa^J* Louise (now Sister Ruth Joseph): William F.. attending John Carroll Unii-crsity; Christopher, TTierc is one .crandson. Joseph A. Navarre IV. Among the offices Joe has held arc: ifonroe County Prosecutor and Cir­cuit Court Commissioner (2 terms); Democratic Party Chairman of ^fonroc County-; President, Monroe Kiwanis Club: Fourth Decree, K. of C ; presently, president. National Association of Insur­ance Commissioners. He has had articles published in the Jnsurancc Law Journal. Best's Insurance Nc^vs, National Undenmtcr and other Insurance periodicals. 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November, 1957 
VICTOR G. YA\\'MAN was born on December 30, 1904, and came lo Notre Dame from Roclicstcr, 
N. Y. He received a Ph.B. in Commerce degree. He is now back in Rochester, where he is owner and manager of the Yawman Metal Products, Inc., which makes sheet metal stampings on a produc­tion basis. Vic became a widower in 1938 and remarried in 1940. His cliildrcn arc: Victor G., Jr., 29; Joan Y. Tucker 27; Virginia Y. Hogg 24; and Judith A., 14. Victor G., Jr., graduated from Notre Dame in 1950, Joan from Newton College of the Sacred Heart in 1952 and Virginia from the same college in 1954, Victor is at Eastman Kodak Company and Joan and Virginia are housewives. There arc four grandchildren: David Tucker 4, Virginia Tucker I, Gregory Yawman 3, and Thomas Yawman 1. Although Vic didn't have any current news, he noted the following: "R/VY DO\WS, Rochester Ordnance; GIL SCHAEFFER, Ford dealer in Detroit; L/\RRY GRODEN, New York State Emp!o>Tncnt Service, BataWa, N. Y.; DEN­NIS 0*NEILL, D'Arc>- Advertising Ageno', Cleve­land; JOE SHE/\, Statler Hotels, New York City." 
ELROY E. HABERT is back in his home town of Cleveland, Ohio, where he is staff auditor, Petro­leum Manufacturing and Sales, Standard Oil Com­pany of Ohio. EIroy was bom on May 22, 1904. He got a B.A. degree from Notre Dame. He u-as married on September 18, 1929, and has two chil­dren, Nanette Rita 27. and Donna ifaric 23, and one granddaughter, Deborah Ann, 14 months. Nanette Rita graduated from Western Reser\*e Uni­versity with a B.S. in nursing. She is now a Ist Lt. in the Army Nursing Corps. EIroy is currently Lt. Governor, 14th Division (Ohio) of Kiwanis International. 
R/VY DURST writes that Bob Cummins of Mis­soula, Mont., ttsilcd him In Chicago. Bob was en route East on a buying trip; he also expected to ^^s^t his close friend. Bishop John O'Hara. 
Bob through Ray also advised that MICHAEL 
J. CURRY, Ph.B.C, '26, died on May 11, 1957. Mike was originally from Mitchell, S. D., but now lived in Alexandria, S. D. I have written his wife Gertrude, offering the condolences of the Class and advising her that we have arranged to have a Mass said for the repose of his soul. 
THOMAS A. FARRELL, SR., is owner of Far­rell Oil Company, a retail fuel oil business. Tliis is in South Orange, New Jersey. Born Fcbruar>' 9, 1904, Tom came to N.D, from East Orange, N. J.. and received an A.B. degree. He was married March 2, 1935. Thomas A., Jr., is 21 and in the Class of '58 at N.D. Francis K., 17, will enter 
N.D. this fall. Tom reports that he sees JERRY HAYES occasionally; that "WINK" WTNGERTER is just getting over a hernia operation; that he sees "DOC* GELSON, JOE HYL.\ND and BOB SMITH; that JIM WALDRON can't play bridge for a hoot: that ED BURKE is leading the life of Reilly and that EDDIE DUGGAN is practicing law for a 'fare thee well.* He also sends his best wishes to FRANK DEITLE. 
BERT DUNNE is the proud daddy of Mike, who made the sport page of the San Francisco Examiner. In an article on the Midget Baseball League, it ^^'as said that the evening's top slugger ^^•as Mike Dunne; he hit two homers, a triple and a single. Bert writes: ". . . put that in the '2fi class notes—and ask any of them if they have a boy that young who is as good a hitter. Mike will go into the seventh grade this fall. He expects to enter Bellarmine Prep in the fall of *59—and ND in the fall of '63. Mike is a fair student, but he is a good altar boy! If he can't make ND. we can always send him to some place like MIT!" 
JOHN B. LENIHAN came to Notre Dame from Cheyenne Wells, Colorado, and received his LL.B. degree. Previously he bad attended Colorado Uni­versity in 1920 and 1921. His birth date Is Decem­ber 18, 1899. John now lives in Houston, Texas, and is attorney. Internal Revenue Service. Estate Tax Division, in that city. His children are ifrs. Jack (captain) Roche, 26; ^frs. Tom Dasliiell 25; and John Michael 23. John Michael is a senior at St. TTiomas University. Houston. Occasionally John sees GEORGE "CHUNKY" MURRIN, who practices law in Houston. 
192 7 Clarence J. Ruddy 
32 South River Street 
Aurota, lUinots 
Ed. Note: The ALUMNUS staff is appreciative of the cooperation and efforts put forth by retiring Secretary Steve Ronay during the past five years. 
MICH.-VEL B. COMERFORD, '43 
Masterminding much of his state's phenomenal resurgence in business and industrial activity is ^-lichael Bernard Comerfordj of Scranton, Pennsylvania, who heads the Northeast Regional Of­fice of the Pennsylvania Department of Commerce. 
Mike was appointed regional repre­sentative early diis year by Pennsylvania Governor George Leader and State Secretar}' of Commerce William R. Davlin. He manages an office covering the eighteen counties of die Quaker state's northeastem quadrant^ assisting local groups in promoting community improvement and local industrial de­velopment. 
A native of Scranton, Mike returned to real estate in his home town after graduating cum laude from .Notre Dame and ser\^ing as a na\'y ensign and lieutenant in World War II. He was vice-president in charge of real estate and labor relations with the Meco Realty Co. and a real estate broker with the Hinerfield Realty Co. before accepting the commerce appointment. 
He is married to the former Miss Joan Conway and they have seven little Comerfords. Two brothers, Tom, '42, and Bill, '49, are also N.D. alumni in Scranton. Mike is very active as a director of the Notre Dame Club of Scranton, of which brother Bill is treasurer. For interested readers, Penn­sylvania is still in the market for new industries and welcomes any and all inquiries from manufacturers. 

Continuation of the class column will be in charge of CLARENCE RUDDY who has accepted the job. We are pleased to have Clarence assume the correspondent's duties for '27, and hope that each of you will find time to send him information about yourself and your classmates.—J.C.) 
It is fitting that your new Class Secretary makes his debut shortly follovring the 30-year Class Reunion, for this Reunion marked the end of one period, and the beginning of .another. The week­end in June spent at Notre Dame brought back a good number of classmates. Some were there who had not been back since graduation. They had never seen the new Athletic Field, the new Law School, the Commerce Building or the new dormitories. Thirty years no^sr seems a short time, but it has been long enough to bring us all beyond the age of 50, and to bring children of many of us to maturity—not mine, because I preser\"ed the illusion of youth by not marrying until I was almost 35. 
It was pleasant to gather back of Howard Hall, on a mild Saturday afternoon, and after eating fried cliickcn, listen to BILL CxVTE strum "Somebody Stole My Gal" on his banjo. It made us all feel ver>- gay and very young—until a moment later I happened to hear someone tell about the exploits of his grandson. Everyone who attended the Reunion appeared to be in good health. After the first momentary* doubt of the identity of various classmates, ever>-one could see that really no one had changed much in appearance—a little balder, a little stouter perhaps, but the same characteristics, the same personalities are there. It was disturb­ing to know that more than 50 of our classmates have passed from this world to the next, but it was comforting to have a Mass said for them by another classmate, FATHER HARRY RYAN, as­sisted by still another classmate, FATHER JIA! 
MORAS. 
The most solemn event affecting our class took place at the Alumni banquet on Saturday night. On that occasion. Father Hesburgh, %vith a few solemn remarks, presented VAN WALLACE with a Degree from the University. J for one, will not soon forget the sight of Van*s mother and his sister looking down from the balcony as they saw- Van take the rolled parchment and beard him say, through a loud speaker from hts portable col: "I am the first of my class to retire, and the last to receive a Degree." 
You have all seen the picture of those in at­tendance at the Reunion, and have seen their names in the Class Notes for the summer issue of this magazine. There were some who could not come. MARC FIEHRER of Hamilton, Ohio, for instance, was not present, so what is probably the countr>''s shortest li\-cd law firm was specially created to put in a call to him. Since the call u-as person to person, and he wasn't there, the name of the caller had to be given. The name u ^ "REIDY, DAILEY. COYNE (or was it BUTLER?) & RUDDY." Very properly the caU was made collect, but since we couldn't reach Marc, wc had to abandon that idea, pay for the call ourselves, and talk to a member of his family. This naturally resulted in an assessment among the partners, and the firm was quickly dissolved. Marc had a pretty good reason for not coming to Notre Dame. I understand he had been to St. Mary's to see his daughter a week earlier, and distance to the South Bend area is a little too great for commuting. 

One of the most cnjoj'able features of the Re­union was the Class dinner on Friday evening. ^\'c were completely by ourselves, and could really catch up on news of the past few years. One of those at the dinner was PAUL BUTLER. I re­member the last time I attended a banquet with him cost me $100.00, but that u-as for the Demo­cratic Party. Fortunately, the Reunion dinner u"as clieapcr. 
I shall not try to detail the Reunion activities. Tlicy have been well covered elsewhere. You who were there will cherish the memory; you who were not will be glad to know that the Class flourishes. .All of us can be proud that the little segment of Notre Dame's history that is entrusted to us is being faithfully preserved. 
\fIKE SWYGERT (Hon. Luther M. to everyone ebe), could not get to the Reunion, but I did see him a few da\-s ago. ED McKEO^VN of the Class of '28 in\-ited another '28 man, HOWARD PHA­LIN, and m>'self, u*:th our families, to his lake shore residence at Dune Acres, and asked Mike, his neighbor, to take time out from his judicia] duties and come over too. Mike has been seriously considered recently for a promotion to the Circuit Court of Appeals. Al ihc risk oE intruding upon LOU BUCKLEY'S prerogatives. let me say that Ed is practicing law vcr>' successfully in Chicago, and Howard appears to be seHing the World Book Enc\'cIopcdia to practically everybody. 

A word about the future. 1 know from my own personal experience that cvcri'body in the Class likes to learn aliout his classmates, but vcrj* feu*—and I am as guilty as anybody else—take the time to drop a line dbout their own activities. Let's begin a new era. STEX'^E RONAY deserves a lot of thanks for keeping on the job so steadily. If this column is to scr\-c its purpose, I will have to get a lot of mail. HERB BRAUN and TED WIEST are my only classmates in Aurora, so I don't see many of you often. I will be glad to give what news I get. but I want plenty of help. 
From llic Alunmi office: FRANK HAGENB.ARTH was on the campus in August for the first time in many years. He visited ART HALEY over a weekend. Business brought Frank to Chicago, and he came down to sec "the wonderful changes and growth thai have taken place here." HERB JONES and AL DOYLE were happily reunited August 24 by an auspicious occasion, a wedding uniting Herb's son. James R. Jones, and Al's daughter Carol. The Doylc-Jones nuptials were a highlight of this year's \-acatioii. Herb, as every­one knows, is Athletic Business Manager at Notre Dame, and Al is in his second term as Mayor of Mishawaka. Indiana. 
142 8 Louis F. Buckley 
• ' * 135 Bluchills Parkway Milton 86, Massachusetts 
Your Class Secretar>- was transferred from Chi­cago to the Boston Regional office of ilie U. S. Department of Labor on September I. I will ser\c as Deputy Regional Director of the Bureau of Emploj-me'nt Security in the New England Region. My office address is U. S. Dcpt. of" Labor, 18 Oliver Street, Boston 10, Massaclmsetis. My home address is given above. 
1 wish to extend our sympathy to JOHN HER­BERT on the death of his father in December and to MIKE McGEOGHEGxVN whose father died in July. Mike is Assistant Deputy Commissioner, Bureau of Public Debt, U. S. Treasury Department, in Chicago. 
FATHER JIM McSH.\NE, S.J., visited me in Chicago this summer. Fatlicr Jim is stiU at Sacred Heart Churcli, 2760 Larimer Street, Denver 5, Colorado. Jim sees ELMER >\'\*NNE regularly in Denver. Elmer represents Safeway in negotiating wage contracu. Father Jim mentioned that he talked to T. VINCENT McINTYRE of Zancsvlllc, Ohio, when he v-isited Denver this summer. \^nce is president of Toastmasters' International. We arc hoping tliat Father McSliane will be present for our 30-year reunion to olTcr Mass as he did last year. 
While at Miami Beacli attending a meeting of the International Association of Personnel in Employ­ment Security, I talked to F. X. JAMES O'BRIEN who is a stock broker in Miami. Jim hopes to return for our 30-year reunion in June. Unfor­tunately, GEORGE COURY \vas away when I was in Miami. 
FATHER ANDY MULREANY, C.S.C, formerly of St. Mar>-'s Cathedral. Austin, Texas, has been named assistant at St. Patrick^s Church in South Bend, Indiana. I am sorrx*. Father Andy, that I am leaving the midwest just when you are moving here. Father Andy offered a Mas*; for the living members of the Class on June 9. He will offer a Mass for the deceased classmates on the last Sunday of November. 
JACK WTNGERTER who is Vice-President and General Manager of Louis de Roclicmont Associ­ates, Inc., motion picture producers, completed a ver>' unique si?L-montlis trip in June. Jack's com­pany chartered a square-rigger sailing ship in Nor­way and sailed from Oslo with their tcclinical crexv. They made the crossing from Madeira to Puerto Rico in 17 days and all of tlic time under sail. Later, they hit the /Vmerican and British Virgin Islands, Trinidad, Venezuela, Curacao and finally Key West and Miami in the States before hitting New York. Jack met HOWIE PHELAX at the Caribe Hilton in San Juan where they had a grand reunion. Jack advised that he is looking fonvard to our reunion in June, 1958. 
BERNIE CAREER called my attention to the June 3, 1957, issue of Time which carried a picture of GENE FARRELL and an article quoting him ­on page 42. Gene was referred to as the **ablc Editor" of the Jersey Journal. 
F.VTHER MARK J. FITZGER/VLD, C.S.C., had an cxcelleiu article in the May 25, 1957, issue of ;\merica entitled "Girding for Atomic Power." 
JOE HILGER is a partner owner of the depart­ment store called Tlie White House in Columbus, Indiana. Joe has four children. One daughter was graduated from St. Mar>-*s, N.D., last year and another is a junior there. Joe's son is a freshman at N.D. Joe, who is director of the Indiana Ifospital /\ssociation, reports that JOHN BUSH.MEYER, administrator of the Louisville Gen­eral Hospital, was made a Fellow of the American College of Hospital .-VsM>cIatIons. Joe is President of the Columbus Retail Merchants Association and is Director of the Columbus Chamber of Com­merce. 
I hope that the Class of '28 cocktail party which will be held at the Morris Inn in the Maliogany Room following the Pitt game on October 26 will be well attended and as successful as was our cock­tail party last year. Your wives and friends are also invited to accompany you to the party, JOE MORRISSEY, who did such a great job last year getting the gang away from cocktails long enough for a group picture, promises to be on hand again this year. Two of Joe's sons were married this year. His daughter was graduated from Our Lady of Cincinnati College. lie has a son entering 
N.D. this year. 
I stopped at St. Palrlck*s parish house in South Bend to sec FATHER ANDY .MULRE.\NY, C.S.C, In August prior to his arrival there. I did sec another classmate. FATHER NORMAN JOHN­SON, C.S.C, who was helping out there at the time. Father Norm has been vcr\' ill for some time, but looked as young and well as he did the last time I saw him some 29 years ago. Father Johnson has ser\-ed as a chaplain in the air force from 1942 to 1946 and was recalled in 1952. A few years ago he wrote texts and set up ''LiWng for Leadership" program which Is a required course In the training of rated personnel, U.S.A.F. He was editor of the "Bengalesc" from 1946 to 1952. 
JL\I C\NIZ,ARO, our Vice-President for the South, replied to my S.O.S. for news as follows; **I was in Washington recently on business and came in contact with BERNIE LOUSHBAUGH, who is now Director of the Central Housing Bu­reau In Washington. Bernle returned several months ago from India where he was stationed about three years with the Ford Foundation. He Is still connected with the Ford Foundation in a consulting capacity. II any of our class is inter­ested In building, particularly housing. It would be well to call on him in Washlnglon. 
"TROY BONNER is president of the .Municipal Golf ^Vssociatlon here, and his picture was in the paper a few davs ago awarding the championship. FREDDIE EV.\NS In llckshurg is still with his father and doing fine. Freddie's father was named after the Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus clxss a feiv Weeks ago. 
"BRIGADIER GENER.\L C. D. JONES, Class of '30, has just arrived from Norway to visit his mother. He has been stationed in Oslo, Nonvay. for the past three years and Is now stationed In Washington, D. G. 
'"I am glad lo announce that my son. Robert, is starting his first year at Notre Dame this fall in the School of Architecture. I expect to go to most of the games there this fall and I will be at the LaSallc Hotel, in case you think I can be of any help to you." 

BERNIE GARBER, who never fails me on an urgent request for news, dashed off the following «n his way to a vacation at Cape Cod: "I sat with JACK WINGERTER on the train from Spring Lake, one July Monday morning and learned of his travels on the square-rigger "Christian Radlch" during the filming of the new DeRochemont "Cinc­miraclc Adventure.*' He slept in a hammock, had herring for breakfast, and gained weight! He was 
ST. LOUIS—^Williani Klasncr (right) is the winner of this year's scholarship awarded by the St. Louis Club. Donald A. Doheny, former club president, makes the presentation as Joseph T. Golabowski, chairman of the scholarship committee, looks on. This winner of the annual award was selected from twenty nominees in the Metropolitan St. Louis area. 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November, 1957 
aboard about six montlis, handling the business end of the filming. In San Juan he met HOWARD PHEL/\N, there on a sales conference. ' "Jack sees few classmates, excepting ROGER BRESLIX, brother-in-law, who has a son in the junior class at X.D. and another son at Holy pross; and, at intcn-als, LOU GVRR, also living m Spring Lake. A year or so ago, Jack had seen HERB McC/\BE of Allcnhurst, v.p. of Guarantv Trust. 
"At lunch one day, Jim MacDcvitt, '34, related that after working late some evenings and slopping to buy small gifts for his three bo>-5 he had met BOB HAMILTON on a similar errand. Both-live in the same L.I. town. Jim remarked about the great amount of work Bob has done for the N.D. Club of X.Y. during his years here. Invite Bob to transfer his t'lTorts to our 30th reunion. 
"The Garbcrs picniced with the L/\RRY CUL­LINEY family this summer. The youngest of Larr>*"s five children, a daughter, was born in March. 1956." 
L.\RRY CULLINEY also came through with the following newsy letter: "Welcome to New England! From time to time I am on a bank examination in the Boston area. I shall certainly be glad to see you. 
"Tliree weeks ago our family of seven joined with the BERNIE GARBER family of seven at Lake Wanrfinog, where the blond, sunburned ever-youthful advertising man owns lake front property. TIic lake is about fifty miles from his residence and mine. Our kids are old friends and enjoyed themselves diving and swimming off the concrete dock, followed by a cook-out. My John and Beniie's Brady, both 13, are taller and huskier than their fathers. Tempiis fugit! 
"Tlie only other classmate I have been in touch with recently was BILL CRONIN whom I chatted with over the telephone. I do not believe any '28ers live tii the greater Xew Haven area, but I frcquentlv see some graduates of the '30ies, JOE BURNS, 100 yards down the road, AL L.-\\\TON% nearby and also in our parish, JACK WARNER, former varsity lineman who looks as if he could still make the team, as well as GEORGE BYRNE's brother Ed who heads our small New Haven Club." 
CHRISTIE FI^\NNAGAN reports that he at­tended the '27 reunion and saw PAT C/VNNY, JOHN WALL.\CE. RED SMITH, and many others. He made the trip with LORING GREEN from Houston and met TO.M WALSH and JOE DELL^V MARI.'V from Chicago. Christie also mentioned that he visited with DON MILLER. 

The following letter from BOB HA.MILTON indicates the enthusiasm with which he' anticipates our 30-year reunion: "Needless to say (God willing) I'll be at the *28 clxss reunion next June. I won't forget the date either—on account of June 8 b my birthday. And. as for your column, I'll be glad to do anything I can to help encourage at­tendance at the 30lh. Possibly as a "roWng dele­gate.*' I don't set long in any one place on account my job as System Supply Manager for Pan /\mer­ican World Airway keeps me moving around the globe. .-Vs you know, we serve 81 countries around the world—and run Patrick Air Force Base (our Guided Missiles Range Division) from whence the first earth satelite will be launched in the near future. Aside from iuventor>' control problems my job encompasses a few additional chores as noted on the attached business'card. I regret to say that since nearly half my time is spent on the road I lose a lot of family life—which becomes more and more intpurtant as the years go by. My oldest girl. Kathleen, will graduate from Queens College with a teaching degree in about a year and a half —and she is engaged to a fine young man—a graduate of Fordham Law School. The next ii: line, Bctly Jo, is a senior in St. Mary's High. Manhassct, and the youngest. Mary, is in St. >(ar>''s elenienlar\- school. Yesterday my wife and I celebrated our 2Ist wedding annivcrsar>* and I can't help but think how lucky I was to get her. . . . Guess Notre Dame looks after her own, one way or another, good or bad. Occasionally run into classmates in strange places—but only fleet­ingly. x\ticnd N.D. Club meetings whenever sched­ule permits, which isn't as often as I like. JACK HOYT and the N.Y. Club arc continuing their splendid scholarship fund work which I had to forego because of extended absences. 
"Will do anything I can to encourage attend­ance." 
Our Vice-President for the midwest, JOHN iGOEf reports from Columbus as follows; *'Thc last deadline I missed haunts me and I had fully intended to write you a note asking your pardon for what I am sure you fell %vas typical Igoc neg-
GEORGE A. GOEPFRICH, '33 

George Goepfrich has been Vice-Presi­dent in charge of Engineering and Quality Control of the Skinner Chuck Company and Skinner Electric Valve Division of New Britain, Conn., since April, 1956. 
A native of South Bend, George started working after graduation for the Bendix Products Division of Bendix Aviation Coip. He was Assistant Chief Engineer of the Aircraft AiTnament Engineering department at Bendix in 1945 when he joined the Allied Con­trol Valve Co., Norwalk, Conn., as Chief Engineer. He retained the posi­tion when Allied was purchased by the Skinner Chuck Company in 1947, and in 1955 he was named Director of Engineering and Development of the Skinner Chuck Co. and its Valve Division. 
Like his recently Spotlighted uncle, Rudolph A. Goepfrich, George holds numerous patents on automatic gun controls and firing equipment, auto­motive brakes, hydraulic de\'ices, pres­sure switches and electrically operated valves. 
George is manned and has two chil­dren, Carol Ann, 13, and George, 20, a student at St. Bonaventure Univer­sity. The Goepfrichs reside at 55 Recano Road and attend St. Francis of Assisi Church in New Britain, Conn. 
George is a member of the American Society of Tool Engineers and a mem­ber of the valve rating committee of the National Fluid Power Association. 
ligence. But, Louie, the contracting business and its subjugation to the whims of the %veather and my endless obligations to school groups, parish groups and diocesan groups have taken so much of my time and energy that I scarcely had a reason­able portion for my own family. Now, however, I have made some revisions in my schedule and can almost prombe not to miss any more deadlines. 
"As you know, we lost our good Bishop, Michael 

J. Ready, in May. He was certainly a fine friend of Notre Dame and so proud of his own affiliation with the University. He always endeavored to say the Mass or speak to the Notre Dame Club at the annual family Communion Sunday. Last year his talk was a classic in phrase and in theme pointing out why we should be proud of and grateful for the privilege of being Notre Dame men. His death was a serious loss for our Church and for our-community and I would like to urge the '28er5 to say a short prayer for the repose of his soul. 
"I met BILL O'NEILL at the Bishop's funeral but had little chance to do more than exchange amenities. Bill is back in Cleveland and certainly carries his years with the same elan he manifested in 1928. His wife Dorothy Is the most gracious girl—and lovely. 
"JLM SHOCKNESSY has been in the hospital a couple of times but when last I saw him he had recuperated fully and was his old energetic self. Presently he is Involved in a rather complicated court case in which he and some associates are trying to buy a local bank. Another bidder for the bank, reputedly "fronting" for- Nation-wide Insurance, is ALEX DOMBEY (Dombrowskl) who was with us as a freshman and sophomore. Notre Dame men. buying banks—Isn't it wonderful. Jim is still Chairman of the Ohio Turnpike Commis­sion and the increase in toll revenue is evidence that he is doing a bang-up job. 
"JOHN MURPHY had an arduous session In the hospital, involving some surgery-. But John is up and at 'cm again and when last I visited him he was smiling and gay—apparently fully recovered from his ailment. 
"Once a month I have dinner with JOHN FONTiVNA at a meeting of an Investment club we support. John's wonderful sense of humor makes even the drab business of stocks and bonds a matter of laughter, and I feel the Wall Street Journal is missing a bet when it does not publish his com­ments. John is feeling fine and planning to be on hand for our next reunion. 
"TOM HART is now a dyed-in-the-wool Colum­busite. Tom recently resigned his position with Employers' Group and is going to start an agency of his own. Ohio may some day abandon indus­trial insurance coverage by the State Itself and when that happens Tom wants to be on hand to fill the gap. He knows we all wish him well. Tom is also secretary' of our Scrra Club and doing the chore w-jth an aplomb that is a *28 heritage. 
"JOE KINNEfVRY, our Foundation Chairman, Is improving In his jousts with FONTi\N.\. When tliose two gu>-s get together the repartee is devas­tating, but there are occasions now when Joe. after years of training, can deliver the knock-out quip. Several niontlis ago we had Father John Cav­anaugh in Columbus and Joe did a masterful job of lining up somp worthwhile contacts for Father John. Too, wc had a fine dinner at Scioto that must have tjlven Father a new insight to the Class of '28.' 
"NORB SEIDENSTICKER is still on the rise at Chillicothe. He is associated with Chilllcolhe Paper Company in an executive (Secy.-Treas.) capacity, and still maintains an executive touch with his golf clubs. 
"And that, Louie, brings me down to the end of the line. I am hopeful that I can make some of the get-togethers at the football games this year. May I use your column to send my best wishes to all my classmates and to express fond hope that I may sec some of them this Fall. Good luck." 
I had a good session with our Class President, FR^\NK CRE*\DON, before I left Chicago, con­cerning plans for our 30-year reunion on June 6, 7, and 8. 1958. We would like to have as many as possible of the committee members who did such a great job on our 25-year reunion serve again this year. FR^VNK CRE.ADON appointed JIM \LLXS to serve as chairman of the nominating committee to select a slate of class officers for the next five years. We would like to have your sug­gestions for new projects for our reunion. 
ROBERT GIL\NT was nominated by President Eisenhower to serve as U. S. District Court Judge for Northern Indiana. Bob, former GOP Congress­man from Indiana, has been practicing law In South Brnd and Washington, D. C, Congratula­
It is easy to see why the family of Richard de Golianj '40, was recently judged "All-American Georgia Family" in the first nationwide All-Anierican Family Search. They are (left to right) Mrs. de Golian; Dick, Jr., Letitia, Martha, Natalie and Dick, Sr., currently president of the Notre Dame Club of Atlanta, Ga. 
tions. Bob, and best wishes for cverj' success in still teaching at Notre Dame, where he is Head of Action Conference at the third annual national your judicial career. the Chemical Engineering Department. meeting in Chicago on August 25. Father Mark A last-minulc letter from ED QUIXX, head of 
"Although I'm on the same campus as ANDY Fitzgerald, C.S.C., will scr\-e as the chairman of the Department of Guidance at Notre Dame: 
BOYLE, I seldom see him because our work keeps the conference committee which will make plans us separated by several buildings and thousands for holding the annual meeting at Notre Dame "Vocr card, a3king me to gather up some news of details. Andy is the Business Manager for the in September, 1938. 
for the '28 ALUMNUS column, arrived wlicn I 
College of Science and leaches also in Chemistry. 
was on vacation in the ^\'cst. I'm sorry Uiat I Father Mark Fitzgerald, C.S.C., gave the sermon had no time to write to classmates before the "PAT CANNY did a verv' fine job of presenting at the Labor Day Mass in Washington, D. C, deadline. I can proWde a fe%v notes about the tlic .-Mumni Association Presidential address at this on September 2. '28 men I see from time to time in the South Bend year's reunion banquet. Only two other '28 men 
JOHN P. GWANAUGH has been appointed area, however; and these may help. were registered for the reunion this year. And I special petroleum representative in the Eastern 
didn't get to meet either one of them! Will have to 
"WILLARD WAGNER, our congenial and effi­Region of the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company. cient dispenser of all things good, mixed or other­With Goodyear for more than 13 years, John re­
do much better next year—at the 30th. wise, is still in South Bend and lives only a few "I saw FATHER FITZGERrVLD on the campus sides with his wife at Frecport, L. I., New York. blocks away from me on McKinIe\* Avenue. I see the other day; but he was too far avvay from roe 
ALBERT F. DA\aS, a 28-ycar veteran with him quite regularly in the comer drugstore on to exchange greetings. And besides, he was in a General ^foto^s, was promoted in August to gen­Sunda>-s after Mass. He is still a Manufacturer's hurr>- to get somewhere with books under his arms. 
eral manager of the corporation's Diesel Equip­Agent and still as prosperous as ever- He will no He probably wouldn't have appreciated being ment Division in Grand Rapids. 
doubt be present for our 30th reunion next year. stopped at that moment. If he isn't we shall all be disappointed. WALTER J. PALTZ, Linden, N. J., has been 
*'We in the Middle West arc ver>' sorry to learn 
named an engineering assf>ciate in the chemicals 
"GEORGE SCHEUER, of the South Bend Trib­that you have been transferred to Boston, Lou. une staff, helped as a member of the St. Joseph's But %ve certainly do rejoice with you in the fine 
development division of the Esso Research and En­Parish team in the solicitation of pledges for the promotion you received, and hope that you will 
gineering Company. In twenty years with Esso Research he has worked with s^Tithetic rubber, 
nc%v Holy Cross Seminary this Spring. George is be ver>' happy in your new position. Chicago's loss vcrj* active in the Boy Scouts in that parish, also, is Boston's gain, for sure. 
detergents, lube oil, additives and other petro­and recently received the St. George medal for his 
chemicals. 
"Our fifth grandcliild, a son, vx-as bom to Ed-
splendid leadership qualities in Scouting. He con­
^ord Jr. and his wife in July. He looks like a
tinues to contribute articles on .Aviation and Trans­
pretty good prospect for the backficid in *74 or 
192 9 La^vTence F. Stauder 
portation for the Tribune. Last year he was Sec­*75, I would say. 
retary- of the Catholic Fonim in South Bend. Electrical Engineering: Dcpt. 
"This Spring I saw PETE GALLAGHER, his wife 
Box 1413 

"Although I haven't seen BOB GRESSER for too and their two fine sons for a few brief minutes. 
long, I have learned that he is now a grandfather Pete and his wife were here for the eldest son's University of Notre Dame also. His daughter married a Notre Dame man graduation from the College of Commerce. Tlie Notre Dame, Indiana who is now in tlie Navy as an officer. Bob is younger son will enroll at Notre Dame soon, I 
still with the bank in Mishawaka and doing vcr>* understand. 
(Ed. Note: Prof. Larry Stauder has agreed to fillwell for himself there, too. 
"I'm sorr>' I can't think of anything else to re­the 1929 Class Secrctar^-ship \-3cated by the death 
"It was announced in Church Sunday last that port right now. Hope this will help a little.** of revered Prof. Don Plunkett. Larry will appre­RON RICH' S son Daniel is soon to be married. ciate all the cooperation he can get, and the best Daniel is manying a local girl after his graduation From the Alumni Office: cooperation consists of frequent news from you from College tliis past June. Ron is looking good LOUIS BUCKLEY was elected chairman of the 
about yourself and your classmates.} after his serious illness of the recent past, and is Board of Directors of the National Catholic Social HUGH J. McMANIGAL, still a coaL-actor in 
Miami, Fla., proudly announces that liis &on Ilugli, Jr., is entering Notre Dame's College of Cnmmeice this year as a freshman. 
BERNARD E. LOSHBOUGH, who has been living in Washington, u-as recently appointed the first Executive Director of Pittsburgh's Allegheny Council to Improve Our Neighborhoods-Housing. Inc. 
ACTION-Housing, Inc., is a new organization to coordinate planning and action of all community organizations to eliminate slums and blighted areas in Allegheny County over the next 20 years. Bcrnic, who has worked in all phases of the housing move­ment, is currently General Manager of the National Housing Center, education and research headquar­ters of the National /\ssociation of Home Builders in Washington. He has also been administrator of the Connecticut State Housing Authority, Housing Director of the National Security Resources Board and has been in India with tiii U. S. Technical Cooperation Administration and the Ford Foun­dation. 
The rest of this report is from JOE WHALEN in Dcs Moines: 
"Sorr>* I missed the trip to the campus at re­union time in June but Ruth and I were \-acation­
ing in Florida. I hope to sec a number of the gang from the East at the .-Vrmy game In I'hila­dclphia. 
"MARK WONDERLIN is the other '29er living in Dcs Moines. lie is Chief of the Claims Division of the Aetna Casualty and Surety Company oflice here. 
"H. A. "HUB" SCHI.MBERG is in Des Moines frequently on business trips. Hub has a fine dr>­cleaning establishment in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and is the immediate past president of the Iowa State Cleaners and Dyers Association. 
"Mx\RK WALSH, long a resident of Beatrice, Nebraska, moved to California with his familv a few years ago and continued In the hotel business tlierc. He has recently made a new connection and is general manager of a hotel chain on the West Coast. I have misplaced his last letter so, if he reads this, he will understand why I failed to answer it. [See "Spotlight Alumnus."—Ed.] 
"We were honored by a short visit from JOE LENIH/VN a few months ago. He stopped over on a business trip to the west coast. 
"Have seen or heard from a number of the '29crs recently, and among them—EMMETT Mc-a\BE, San Diego; AL WELZENBACH, Los An­geles; I^VRRY STAUDER, Notre Dame; MICKEY McMAHON. Ne«* Orleans; GEORGE MONROE, Frecport, Illinois.** 
A last-minute arri\-al from MICKEY McAfAHON in New Orleans: *'I know all members of our Class were as 
* shocked as was I to hear of the sudden death of our Class Secretary-, DON PLUNKETT. He was a fine Catholic gentleman and I know he will be missed by his host of friends throughout the countr>*. Please ask all to remember him In their prayers. 
"I received a newsy letter from FR/VNCIS CUSHING last month, giving me the details of his proposed trip to Lourdes. Also have heard from TOM FERRITER (Yes, Tommy, I found mv tickets). Also had letters from JOHN RE/\GER and BILL DOWDALL. Bill reports that he sees H/\NK BURNS frequently and visited the campus recently. Had notes from TONY KOPECKY, JOHN DORG.VN, PHIL A\*ALSH, LOUIS NIE­ZER, BILL KRIEG and a long letter from HUB SCHIMBERG saying 'Hello, Mick'! Hub is so busy dr>'-clcaning in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, that he holds his correspondence to a minimum. 
"Had a nice letter from FR/\NK O'BRIEN. 

' (Frank, CYP SPORL sends his regartis and Is the one you met in Rochester sometime back). Had a brief note from FRED WAGNER, the Tiffin Tycoon and although he didn't say so, I am sure he is tun­ing up to get together with TOM FERRITER, TONY KOPECKY and others In 1959. 
"HAROLD BAER writes from Fresno, California, that he just returned from \-acationing In Laredo. Texas, and ^^exico City and BOB VOGLEWEDE reports that he u-as recently transferred to the Detroit Oflice of Peat, Mar^rick, Mitchell and Company from Seattle and that he recently saw BOB TROTTER and CVRL MARTERSTECK. Had a brief note from FR/\NK DO/\N from Wil­mcttc. Illinois, and was also very pleased to receive HARLEY McDEXTTT's regards. JUDGE RAY DRYMALSKI reports that all is going well on the bench in Chicago and as have many others, JOE LENIHAN is already plugging for the 30th re­union in '59. 
DR. FRANCIS T. McGUIRE, '35 

Having managed John & Company's Materials Engineering Department since 1949, Dr. Francis McGuire is now Works Manager of the Deere Harvester Works in East Moline. 111. 
Frank has B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. de­grees in Mechanical Engineering and Metallurg)' from Notre Dame and has done additional work at Harvard. He held an Associate Professorship at the University of Kentucky from 1941 to 1943, was Laborator}' Director at Re­public Steel Coip., Chicago, from 1943 to 1946, and prior to joining Deere & Go. was Plant Manager at the Sibley Machine & Foundrv' Co. in South Bend. 
Active in the American Society of Metallurgists, Frank is on the Metals Handbook Committee and a past chair­man of the Publication Committee. He is also a member of A.I.M.E., S.A.E., A.S.A.E., the British Iron and Steel Institute, the Institute for Metals and the A.F.S. 
He is also active in ordnance for the Defense Department, serving on the Advisor)' Committee for Armor Pierc­ing Projectiles and Defense Research. 
Frank and his wife Bemice have two children, Patricia, 13, and Mike, 12. 
"BOB McVETY (Remington-Rand, New York) reports that ED McAL\HON has been transferred to New York from Syracuse (Bob and Ed—Next time I am in New York we will have a three-way reunion at GENE CONNELLY'S). G\RL MAR­TERSTECK also wrote me recently as did RED LE.\CH. Red threatens to write me soon, bringing me up-to-date on things and I am looking fonv'ard to that. It will probably wind up with Red bring­ing me up-to-date when I sec him in June two years hence. Received brief notes from NORB BERGHOFF, BERNIE KE/\RNS, CLYDE BUNK­ER and RED CURRY. Hope Red is as photogenic as he was three years ago. so I can be snapped with him again. It has been a sensation! 
"LOU REAGEN wrote me from Minneapolis which brought back many happy memories of the days when we lived not too far from Lou and his fine wife, Fran, in Minneapolis. D^VN VERRILLI and TOM JORDAN both checked in as did JOE X.-VSH. Joe hoped that I was enjoying the summer but questioned whether it was possible to do so in the heat of New Orleans. Air conditioning docs wonders, Joe, and I will take that any time in preference to shoveling snow. 
"Had a nice letter from BILL GROTTY and also one from FRxVNCIS JONES. 
"From time to time, have heard from LARRY STAUDER, JOHNNY ME.AGHER, HUGH Mc-M.\NIGAL, ALBIE GRIFFIN, FRANCIS MEYER, .\NGIE GALDABINI, GEORGE AFTKEN, SY JONES, ED GER.\GHTY. LYMAN HILL, ED MEDLxVND, JOHN KE.\RNS, BUD MARKEY, CHARLIE H.ASKELL, DON ALEX.\NDER. JIM GALL.\GHER and DR. GEORGE McDONNELL. 
**Thts Is all for now but please ask the fellows to keep in touch with me as it was mighty nice to hear from all of them.** 
Even in these montlis of summer \*acation we often sense the void left by the death of DON PLUNKETT. With the opening of classes many of his associates will often recall this gentleman with many friends. 
In mid-August Sacred Heart Church on the campus celebrated the seventieth anniversary of its consecration. Father LOU THORNTON, '29, was celebrant of the Mass. In not" too many years we will have made our freshman mission with FATHER FRENCH at the "half-life" point of that-beloved church. Looking back, that makes F.-VTHER THOM/\S STEINER, '99, who was on Corby Hall porch that morning, a real pioneer to us and more so to the sons of '29crs now on the campus. 
ED DcBAF.NE writes from Detroit that son Ted will return to the campus In September, a sopho­more in CI\*il Engineering. Ed's brother W.-VLLY (Class of *31) recently underwent a serious throat operation which, wc are sorry to learn, has left him with the handicap of a speech impairment. Ed has been a friend indeed to the faculty and students of the Electrical Engineering Departtnent. Through his efforts and the efforts of other friends and loyal alumni like JOE SIMONTN, '28, KEN FALK, '47, a number of gifts and favors have facilitated the design and construction by your class secretary and several graduate students of a Protective Relay Demonstrative Board and an A-C Network .-Vnabier for use of both graduate and undergraduate students. 
109| | Dcvcre Plunkctt 
• ^^^ O'Shauglmessy HaU Notre Dame, IDadiana 
193 1 Janics T. Doyle 
• ' ^ • 902 Oakton Street Evanston, lUinois 
The main activity of the summer for the class of 1931 has been the trip to the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes made by the JIM McQUAIDS of Vincennes, Indiana. Jim and Marie have been planning on this trip ever since the Lay Retreat of 195S which was so helpfu! in making it possible. A contribution was made from our class fund to help defray the expenses which seem to pop up at the last minute despite the best attempts to figure in everything. Our prayers and best wishes have always gone to the McQualds and they remembered all Jim's' classmates in their prayers at Lourdes. Their letter of July 14th highlights their trip: 
"It was good to talk to you while wc ^verc on our way to Lourdes, and we fully Intended to call you on our return . . . but wc came in earlier due to a change of plans of a visit in Mass. and when we arrived in Chicago, Jim was pretty tired, and it v.-as a letdown .. . so wc didn't tarry long, but came on home. 
"The entire trip was a magnificent one . . . and the highlight, of course, was our audience with the Holy Father on June 18, at 11:15 a.m. and arranged bv a member of the Class of '31 (a great class, belieCe mc) FATHER BERNARD RANSING! 
There were only 10 people other than ourselves . . . and it was a thrill from beginning to end. W'c arrived in Rome at 11:00 p.m. Sunday and you can well imagine our surprise when a T\\'A official boarded the plane and said *Mr. McQuald, we have a reception committee waiting for you,' I was at the door of the plane by that time and the flash cameras started popping, and there was VINCE McALOOX. with FATHER ZIMMER­MAN, two Holy Cross brothers and several alumn! all wailing at the bottom of the steps to welcome us. A regular Holl\-wood reception, believe me! 
"\nncc showed us every courtesy, and between him and Brother Alexis. S.C, a friend of ours, and the Holy Cross Fathers and Brothers and the Christian Broihrrs wc had a glorious time and did not •nl'ss veiy much in R--rnic, 
«\\'c called on FATHER RANSIXG to give our personal thanks for the .Audience and were shown their lovely place outside of Kome .. . on Wednesday night of our visit Vincc planned an 
X.D. party .. . at Scoglio di Frisio . . . and %ve were met at the door with the mtL«icians striking up the N'.D, \^ictor>- ^^arch .. . it was a most thrilling occasion and in the true X.P. style, Vince had left not a slone unturned. Father Ranstng was there, also a Mrs_ Gleason (whose husband is a member of the Class of '34 and on Xaval dutv in Xaplcs), FATHER EXGLE, BROTHER REX and several others. . . . Believe me. even tho wc were in a pri\-aie dining room. evcr>'one in the large cafe knew there w-as a group of N'.D. people there ... wc sang the Irish songs and ^vcrc wishing for all of you to be there with us. 
"On TImrsday when wc left for Paris . . . X'ince and one of the Brothers drove us to the Airport and saw that wc were put on the plane in true 
X.D. style and it u-as with deep regret that wc left them. If any of the X.D.*crs arc contemplating a trip to Rome . . . Vlncc said to be sure and let him know. Tliey are enlarging the school and hope to soon have facilities for taking care of some 500 students. Wc hope to write up our trip . . . and if you wish will send you a mimeo­graplicd copy , . . 
"Tliank you Jim. and all the members of that great Class of '31, for your great assistance in helping make this pilgrimage possUile . . . we arc truly grateful . . . and even more so iiow that since our trip to Lourdcs wc feel very fortunate and grateful to Our Lady that Jim is as he is . . . and not like some of the pilgrims we met in Lourdes .. . he is fortunate, believe mc! 
"Jim joins me in sending you and your wife our best wishes . , . and perhaps wc can meet tliis fall at a game. 
"P.S.; \Vc arrived in Chicago tlic day Irene Jordan passed away - . . and I called on John at the Funeral Home. It mmt have been a shock to Johnny, but he realizes that the Good Lord was good to Irene, and she is no longer suffering . . . Irene had multiple sclerosis, but was mudi worse than Jim, I understand." 
Contacts around the \Mndy City have been scarce this summer. GIL SEAMAX has taken his annual leave of the hay fever season and has gone to AMsconsin where he may run into EDDIE RYAX who generally spends August there. RED O'CONXELL has recently moved to Wilmettc so his regular visits to the HOLLAXD menage will be more of an effort in the future. GEORGE COSTELLO phoned to comment on the last *31 column in the Alumnus and promised to write MAURICE GOODEX'E for news. He last saw HARRY KFJs'NEDY about three years ago, but has had no news of him for some time. I saw what I thought was the smiling face of SPIKE SULLH^AX in Dave Garroway's telecasts from Oklahoma City during their Exposition last June. I wrote Spike but It turned out to be someone else Uc and TOM MONAHAN manage to 5ce each other frequently. ^\'hiIe in South Bend during June he saw ED MURRAY and HANK CH.AMBERS. I ran into \aXCE BUSCH and his wife, the former Marion Tully of St. Mary's at St. Charles C. C. where wc were guests of RAY HARCOMBE and his wife, the former OlJve Gcis of St. Mar\"'s. Tliis summer I got a little news on MOOX MULLIXS from a Davenport friend of his. C/^CK LUNDY. Larr>* has a son, Larry Jr., who is a Carmelite and is studying at the X'orth .American College In Rome for four yeare. XICK BOHLIXG, 7th Ward Alderman, was on WlLNl-TV" recently and did a very com­mendable job. He is one of the most respected members of tlie Citv- Council In Chicago. Tliis same station carried a half hour program on X'otre Dame July 4th. Ably narrated by JOE BOLAXD, It told the sioiy of X.D. academically, athletically 
VICTOR HILTON FALL, '27 

Monlanans were not surprised when Judge Victor Hilton Fall was re-elected by a thumping 25% pluralit)' to tlie district bench of Montana's First Judi­cial District (Lewis & Clark and Broad­water Counties) last November, for Victor Fall has a long record of effect­ive public service and private practice in the state of Montana. 
A westener only by adoption, Vic is a native Hoosier, bom in Wabash County. Indiana. After graduation from the Notre Dame Law School he was a casualty adjuster in Chicago until he was admitted to the Indiana Bar. He practiced law about three years before he heeded Horace Greeley and headed for Montana. 
Vic took an M. A. in Political Sci­ence and Histor)' in 1934 at the Uni­versit)' of Montana, Missoula, Mont. He was admitted to the Montana Bar and became an attorney with the Mon­tana State Water Conservation Board. From 1937 to 1940 he was in general practice of law at Boulder, Mont. He practiced in Helena, Men t., serving two years as deputy county attorney, from 1940 to 1943, when he went into the U. S. Na\y. 
Back in 1945, Vic was appointed general counsel for the Montana State Unemplo>Tnent Compensation Com­mission. In the 1952 spring election he filed for District Judge. Elected in tlie fall he has held office ever since. 
Vic is married, has a daughter and 

two srandchildren. 
and spiritually. This film, I understand, is avail-1 able for showing by local X.D. Clubs throughout ' tlic country, llic sympathy of the class is extended to BILL CHAWGO injhc recent loss of his father. 
FR. JIM DOXXELLY, '33, telephoned last month from the Harcombc's while traveling around the countr>'. His parish is St. Mary's Mission whicli was dcx'astated in the flood which swept through Lampassas. Texas, last spring. TOXY W^rrZEL in the Chicago Daily Xews devoted his entire column to him recently. 
With the football season just around the corner, I am hopeful of greater cooperation and more news for the next ALUM-VUS. The Xotrc Dame Club of Chicago holds its annual Golf Outing at Elm­hurst Country' Club September 9th and I expect to sec a representative group of '31ers In at­tendance. 
From the Alumni Office; ALVIX G. KOI^KI, 27 South Shoreland, Lake Zurich, Illinois, has been promoted to assistant claim manager of the Midwest Zone, Allstate In­surance Company. Al will supcr\*Ise claim activity in the Detroit, Indianapolis and Milwaukee Re­gional ofHccs for .Allstate. 
193 7 James K. Collins 
• '"* ^ 3336 Kenmorc Road Shaker Heights, Ohio 
(Ed. Note: Jim Collins, who served as your class secretarv' for the past five years, has done an excellent job of keeping the ALUMXUS maga­zine informed about the Men of *32. Wc arc highly grateful to Jim for a consistent presentation , of interesting class news. This Is his *wind-up* i column.—Xappy X'apolitann takes over as the new secrctaiy and would appreciate your continued cooperation.—^JC). 
From JIM COLLIXS: The title of Monslguor and the rank of Papal Chamberain has been conferred on MSGR. PAUL 
J. H.ALLIXAX by His Holiness Pope Pius XH. Tlic announcement was made by Archbishop Edward ' 
F. Hoban of Cleveland on June 18. Msgr. Paul, wlio went into the scniinarv' some time after graduating with our class, has been ex­tremely active in the Xatlonal Xewman Club Federation, and Is a former national chaplain of j the organization. He Is now director of the Xew­man Clubs for the Archdiocese of Cleveland along with his other work. JIM WARD has organized a new company, called James J. Ward and Company, to ser\-c the aircraft and missile fields as sales consultants and manu­facturers representatives. The office Is located in the Stamford Trust Company Building in Stamford, Conn., with a branch In Washington. Jim was ' fornicrly with the Consolidated Diesel Electric Corporation where he was vice president and a director. He was made sales manager In 1949 when the company's annual sales were approxi­mately $1,000,000. and in eight years this was In­creased to $25,000,000 annual volume. Jim Is 
married and hxs one daughter, Mary Anne, \vho is a student at Trinity College in Washington. 
- HUGH BALL has been touring Europe this ^ summer with his wife. Florence, and the two older of his three sons, Tliey flew over on June 12 and expected to be gone three months, visiting twelve countries on this trip. 
TED HALPIX has been transferred to Milwaukee by DuPont, and expects to be situated there early in September. His son, Cary'i ts entering Creightan University this fall. 
We were extremely sorry to hear of the death ­of Fred Heneghan on August 14, A Mass was said / for him by the REV. THO.MAS J. O'DOXXELL, C.S.C., on September 7 at the University. The family residence Is at 511 Mack Street, Joliet, Illinois. 
It is a little late to report on the reunion but wc had a wonderful turnout and a fine time as eWdenccd by the roster and pictures In the last issue of the ALU.MXUS. HERB GIORGIO w ^ re-elected president of the class, XAPPY XAPOLI­T/\XO was elected secretary, and the writer 'treas­urer. Many were back for the first time in 25 years and it was good to sec them. Rf\Y PFEIF­FER had plenty of samples and was the host at his private bar. Among other things I heard: LEO FAGAN is planning a real spread in Tulsa for the Oklalioma game. JOHX KILVMER \ras kept away because of minor surgery but is fine no\%% MURRAY BOOTH has retired and is llring on Cape Cod, OLLIE POWERS' son Tom has been appointed to Annapolis and started this sum­
46 Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November, 1957 
nuT, DICK FABRYCKI was counting up his capital gains from the sah* of his oil business in South Bend, GEORGE MAYWALT is president of Moore & Company in Worcester, BILL VAN ROOY's daughter was rect-ntlv marrivd to JOHN REIDY, '54, and PORKY L.\VELLE has tntirdy recovered from tlic accident. 
From the Ahimni Office: GERALD F. CONWAY was appointed Director of Public Relations of Pacific Ocean Park, Inc. He will direct publicity and advertising programs of the multi-million dollar amusement park to be built at Ocean Park Pier In Santa ^Ionica, Cali­fornia, owned jointly by tlie Los Angeles Turf Club and the Columbia Broadcasting System. Ger­ald his been in the Press Infonnatioii Department of CBS Television for six years, previotLsly having serx'cd as a captain in the army and in various pub­licity, advertising and hotel management jobs. 
zsyeaR Reunion Junc67-S 
'33 ^m 
193 3 Joseph A. McCabc ''• ' 632 Forest Avenue River Forest, Illinois 

Dear '33's: Whoever coined the saying "No news is good news'' never tried to fill a column in the ALUM­NUS! With this somewhat dour commentary, we'll contemplate what wc hope will be the Golden 
Future when our next mailing goes out . . . and brings back a staggering load of checks and news notes. 
Because we ARE going to make anotber mailing in the near future . . . the impetus of the first mailing has died down. The ropunsc of the first appeal was quite good but not nearly enough to stand for any kind of a class gift. It amounted to roughly $1,000. We didn't foresee that it would be high enough for a gift anyway, and are pleased that it went as lilgh as it did. But this time wc hope the contributions will come in from you other hundreds of '33's who didn't give the first tim_c. So . . . when the letter comes, DONATE . . . and put in a few news items, too—if it's only to tell how many children (or grandchildren—wc have to face it!) you have. 
As to what the gift will be, we're not exactly decided yet. We've had a number of siiggcstions as to what fonn It should take. (One of them is discussed ver>- cogently by FATHER JL\( DON­NELLY in bis letter below.) It has also been suggested that wc take a poll on this—which we may do. 
One of our '33's played a large part in the ac-ti\-alion of the world's first "Boiling Water Nuclear Plant" at Lemont, 111. j\s Director of Engineering and Construction for the USAEC. DAN aVSEY administered and supervised the construction of the plant. Congratulations. Dan—just sec that the thing doesn't blow up before the reunion—it would probably take the Dome with it! 
Also had a nice card from CHUCK HAFNER, who assisted Curley Lambcau, Hunk Anderson and other All-Star coaches to get Paul Homung, et al., ready for their hassle with the New York Giants In Chicago's Soldier Field on August 10. Tlic boys didn't win but put up a good struggle until the rains came in the second half. Con­gratulations. Chuck—I'm sure you had a big share in getting the lads ready. 
Now here's Father Jim Donnelly's letter: 

Dear Joe: 
It w-as good to see you when I \-isitcd Chicago. The 1933 column in the ALUMNUS is splendid. Dr. Bob Donovan's suggestion to make our dona­tion in honor of The Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., is excellent. Not a single one of us was untouched by his influence. The men who Were inspired and encouraged by him will make-whatever sacrifices arc necessary to insure that the gift of the 1933 class in hts honor will be a suitable one. No project is of greater importance, none of greater significance, than the new Seminary lo be built at Notre Dame. I am the only priest in this entire county, so I know, Joe. something of the great need for priests In our times. If each member of the 1933 class goes all out to provide a fitting memorial for the new ^foreau Seminary, many of the sons of the 1933 men will be encour­aged, by that fact alone, to think more seriously of the Holy Priesthood as a vocation. Let everyone speak his piece now or hold his peace forever more. I've spoken mine: something for the Sem­inary in honor of "the pope.'* 
Your grateful friend in Christ, 
Jim 

From JOHN A. HOYTf Reunion Co-Chairmanr AMtli not too much time to make the August 25th deadline, I tliought it best to send some 1937 Class Reunion comments direct. Sometime back GEORGE ROHRS, President of the Class of 1933, with the approval of the Regional Vice Presidents, appointed JOHN O'SHAUGH­NESSY and m>'self as Co-Chairmen of our 25th Class Reunion. I was in the \vest in June and on llic way home t stopped over in Chicago to visit with John O'Shauglmcssy and JOE .Mca\BE. We had several conferences on Reunion plans at the E%-anston Countrv' Club --as guests of the O'Shaughnessy 
TOLEDO—Jack Solon, retiring Foundation city chairman, presents Father Glenn Boamian, C-S.C, with a check for $1,000, the club's 1957 contribution to the University, at the annual Conmiunion Breakfast. Looking on are (left) Richard Donoghue, alumni club presi­dent, and Frank H. May, Jr., newly appointed Foundation chairman. Father Boamian, assistant professor of philosophy, spoke to alumni families and friends following the breakfast. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November, 1957 47 
family. It was decided to send out a second class news letter which should reach class members later in the summer. 
The original class IcUcr went out under John O'Shaughncssy's vcr>- apt by-Iinc—"Let's Com­3nunlcatc For '59/' John has now amended the by-line to read *'Let's Communicate—and Donate For '58." A class questionnaire—not quite so «laboratc as the famous 1928 Questionnaire—is in preparation and after it is co-ordinated it will be sent out. We hope it will be returned promptly —as we will be guided by the suggestions and an­swers in our Reunion activity plans. 
Those who contribute to our 1933 Class Reunion Fund will be given credit at the University. John O'Shaughnessy is to send a cumulative list to Jim Armstrong advising him of the individual class contributions. 
Joe McCabe's 1933 Class notes in the August-September edition of tlic ALUMNUS cont;uncd considerable news and several helpful Reunion suggestions. Tlic one I liked best was DOC BOB DONOVAN'S (Arlington, Mass.) suggestion that ''state lieutenants" be appointed to "whoop things 
•up." I am sending Bob a list of New Englandcrs 1933—^Nfaine to Massaclmsctts—so he can keep in touch with them through the winter. I am sure the Fords of Massachusetts have talent that Bob can call upon to get out an occasional note to the "down easterners." Wc would welcome state lieutenants in other areas—I will send you a Hst. 
"PREXIE" GEORGE ROHRS has been \-acation­
ing up Saratoga way, 
JIM SHEA who lives close by in Tuckalioc, New York, has been giving much of his time and talents to affairs of the Notre Dame Club of New York. 
ED^ ECKERT (Albany)—New York State's lead­ing "plumber"' has himself a new airplane to get around from job to job. Can you imagine what his bills look like now? 
MARSHALL .McAVENEY (River Edge, N. J.)— recently spent sex'eral months setting up the Hun­garian Refugee Program for the Justice Department. He should write a book—with rovalties to Class of 1933. 
BILL L\'NCH—dean of Yonkcrs, keeps in touch 
•witli MARTY LINSKEY who has just moved east. Bill's latest problem is late commuting trains whicli don't get him home In time to take care of his flower garden. 
From the Alumni Office: 
TIGHE WOODS, Washington realtor and former director of rent control, housing and price stabiliza­tion for the federal govemment, has been elected president of the Klwanis Club of North^vest Wash­ington, D. C. 
1934 ^' ^^^^^^ Carey 
18843 Ingle wood Avenue Rocky River, Ohio 
ANTHONY F. ANZLOVAR, mentioned in tlic Fcbruari'-irarch ALUMNUS as assistant general manager of Mercast Manufacturing Corporation, LaVcmc, California, has been named vice-president and general manager of the firm, which produces precision castings by a special frozen mercurj' process for the aircraft, electronics and missile Industries. Prior to the formation of Mercast in 1955 Tony was special assistant to EVERARD F. KOHL, Class of '25, Inventor of the frozen mer­curj' process, and assisted in the organization of Kolcast Industries and Industrial Metal Castings Co., Mcrcast's ancestors. A former army captain, Tony is married to the former Eileen Hcnness>' and has six children. 
1935 Frankl>*n C. Hochrciter 702 Scarlett Drive Baltimore 4, Maryland 
From the .-Mumni office: 
a\.MILLE F. GR^WEL, JR., Democratic Na­tional Committeeman for Louisiana, reports on tlic whereabouts of JOSEPH L. FIT2MAURICE, who was in the Class of '35 but didn't get his degree until Februar>- of '36. Joe is with the CIril Aeronautics Board and has been in Camillc's home town of Alexandria, La., for several weeks conducting airline hearings. 
G. ALBERT L.\\\TON was named president of Bankers Securit>- Life Insurance Society In Septem­ber. He was president of Security-Connecticut Life and its two affiliates, Sccurit>- Insurance Company and Connecticut Indemnity Company before joining Banker's Security. 
193& Robert F. Ervin 1329 Kensington Road Grosse Pointe Park, Michigan 
Your secretary- is sad to report that it is neces­sary to resign a position and take a new one in 

ROME—Pope Pius XII granted a private audience for the family of Jerry Ashley, class of '33, on the Feast of the Sacred Heart, June 28. Beside His Holiness, left to right, are Jerry, daughter Mary Camille, son Paul, Mrs. Ashley and son Thomas. 
order to hear from any of his classmates. As some of you may have noted, I am now with Parke, Davis and Company in Detroit and a number of you have been kind in sending congratulatory notes and best wishes relative to my new job. Included in this group were HERM GREEN, PAUL DOYLE, J.ACK BR/\Y, BILL BAYER, and TOM TRE.\CY. To all of you I extend my sincere thanks and hope you will make sure to glx'e me a ring whenever you pass this way. 
Recently you received from your secretary a letter urging greater participation in our Annual Alumni Fund during 1957 In view of the great need for enlarging the seminary facilities at Notre Dame. I hope tliat our class will be well repre­sented in this most w*orthy cause. 
HANK POJMAX who is President and founder of the Metropolitan Savings and Loan /Vssoclation in Broadview, Illinois, writes: "We have just passed a milestone today by receiving notice of insurance accounts in our little association and should be well on our way." Tliis sounds good. Hank, and we all wish you continued success. 
LARRY PALKOVIC, who is one of our most consistent correspondents, writes, in part, **Rc­ceived your letter regarding a gift donation for a new semmar>' building at Notre Dame to which I hope to contribute ver>' shortly along with my regular Alumni dues. N'othing new from an old Alumnus from this part of the country. I am the only living grad here from the class of '36 and as a consequence don't get to see anyone except once in a great while I see NICK TANCREDI who lives in Mcchanicsrillc which Is near Saratoga Springs and risit SAL COMISSA who lives In North Newark. I visit Sal ever>* chance I get when I go to Jersey where we visit my wife's people in Orange. By the way, the ALUMNUS docs not have Sal's mailing address which I u-ill give you. Sal's address is 40 Eastern Parkway, Newark. N. J-Wish more of the gang could stop off and \-isit here as I live only four miles from the New York State Tliru-Way. I Imagine some must travel that way from N. Y. to Buffalo or Wce-vcrsa. Put a note in the ALUMNUS to get off stop 28 Fulton-ville and come to Johnstown. Would be glad to have anyone stop and due to the fact we run a variety store, we have plenty to eat and drink and our place is easy to find as evcr\"one around knows of our store. "Wish I had more news in this regard except I have written to BILL SAFFA so much and hardly get a card from him. Wish he would write a few lines.'* 
WOODY STILL^VAGON who Is with The Con­tinental Can Co. in Mt. Vernon. Ohio, writes: "Liring in Mt. Vernon and not having occasion to do much in thr wav of travel, my N.D. contacts are limited to MIKE McGUIRE ('30) and ROB­ERT OVERMEYER ('42), both chemists with | C.C.C.—I'm still working as Industrial Relation Supervisor for the Plant and holding up quite well —likewise my family. Recently \-isit«l with my brother Richard, who Is a Lt. Col. In the Air Force stationed at Barksdale. La. He spent the vcir of 1936-37 at N.D." Tlianks for the letter. Woody, and let us hear from you again before long. 
NORB CASPER and his wife sent me a very enticing card from the British West Indies where they obviously had a wonderful vacation. LEE MOORMAN who is an attorney here In Detroit handled the legal details on our new home in Grosse Pointe and I would like to recommend him for anv other classmates who are about to move into this area. JOHN BURNS of the Class of '34, is employed \rith the Ford Motor Company and wc had a very nice get-together the other day at lunch. 
Tliat's about all for this issue but I hope the fact that some of you have gotten the writing urge will stimulate more letters from the rest. Remem­ber that JOHN CACKLEY has guaranteed the Class of *3G plenty of column space to make up for the lean years. (Ed. note: Why don't ALL of you fellows write to Bob . . . now that he doesn't have much to do since learing the busy confines of Lobund for the "outside world."—JC) 
1937 ^^ ^ ^*'^^^' Vice-President 
McCann-Erickson, Inc. 
3546 Penohscot Bldg. 
Detroit 26, Michigan 
EDWARD J. HOYF, Export Credit Manager, 
U. S. Rubber International, was elected iJiairman of the Hardware, Automotive and Allied Trades Group of the Foreign Credit Intercliange Bureau at the group's June luncheon meeting In New York. 

Notre Dame Alumnus^ OctobeT-NovembcTy 1957 
Ed is well recognized in the iield of international credits and finance. 
THOMAS P. Ci\RNEY, a \icc-prcsidcnt of Eli Lilly & Co., has been appointed a consultant to Health, Education and \Vclfarc Secretary Clarion 
B. Folsom in Washington. Tom will be asked to adWsc Secretary' Folsom on the status and future needs of medical research and education. 
LLOYD R. STOLICH of Salinas, California, a member of Sacred Heart parish there, has been named a Papal Knight of St. Gregory by His Holi­ness Pope Pius xn . 
The U. S. Armv*5 most decorated chaplain, LIEUT, COL. FRANCIS L. SAMPSON of the airborne divisions in Europe and Korea, was the subject of a true drama on the **Crossroads" tele­\'ision series recently. Father Frank was portrayed by Donald Woods as he trained with the lOlst Airborne before embarking for D-Day in World War II. He made combat jumps in Normandy, Holland and Korea. 
X938! 
K£umon 
June 67-8 
CLASS 

1^^ ^36 
1938 ^Ii^I ^ ^'- Callahan 
• ^^ Sports Publicity Dcpt. Notre Danic, Indiana 
Hal Williams 307 Cedarcroft Road Baltimore 12, Maryland 

(Ed. Note: Now is the time to start planning to be at your 20th Reunion celebration next June 6, 7, 
8. We have two "powerful and persistent" scribes who will relay information to you via the class col­umn beginning with this issue. Charlie Callahan, busier than ever during the Fall as Notre Dame's Sports Publicity Director, will do the "promotion­al" blurbs while Hal Williams writes the "buiId-up" columns. AVilh tlicsc two guys handling the chores you should have at least 100 per cent class repre­sentation come next June. They'll appreciate your ideas—many of which will be outlined by Hal in future Issues.—^J.C.) 
From CHARLIE CALL.AHAN: 
A postcard was received from NICK Li\M­BERTO, from Rome. Nick has now been a re­porter on the Des Moines Register Tribune for many years, and as for his being in Europe—he was on a Na\*al news-gathering junket with several other American newspapermen. 
JACK ANTON was a recent campus visitor. He is now a vice-president of the Boothc Leasing Corporation, a San Francisco outfit, and he still works out of his native Chicago, with an office at 228 N. LaSallc St. His work demands a oncc­or-twlce-a-year visit to San Francisco, and he told of seeing NEVIN (BUNNY) McCORMICK, on his last jaunt. 
Four years ago, when we held our 15th reunion, classmate JACK SCOTT was the mayor of South Bend. Now as wc approach our 20th, it can still be said that the class continues to bold power within the inner circles of South Bend executives as CHUCK BOROWSKI is now a lieutenant on the S. B. police force. 
CHARLEY DUKE, for many years manager of the South Bend Municipal Airport, is now the assistant director of aviation. Molsant International Airport. New Orleans. La. Preceding his departure there was a big farewell parly by the large South Bend '38 contingent. 
WALT DUNCAN, who has been living in Okla­homa City for several years, is looking forward to the Oklahoma game, being played at Norman, Okla., this fall, and Is hopeful the result will be as satIsfactor>* as when the Irish went to Norman in 1953. 
DON FISHER, the insurance tycoon, is the busi­est of all Soutlt Bend members of the class at the moment—at least from the Notre Dame standpoint. He is the president this year of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley. He has succeeded an­other classmate, BILL GIBBONS, in this assign­ment. 
An unusual reunion of altmmi and sometime classmates transpired at hearings of the Civil Aeronautics Board of Alexandria, Louisiana, recently. Here Joe Fitzmauncc (left), a CAB attorney, swears in Democratic National Committeeman Camille Gravel, who testified as to the need for additional airline service in Alexandria. 
Where Walt Duncan is looking fonvard to the Oklahoma game, at Norman, ED HAGGx\R, the pants man, is doing the same with reference to the Southern Methodist contest, to be played at Dallas, Dec. 7. Both Walt and Ed have become arid football fans, as I sec both at two or three games ever>- year. 
DR. TOM HUGHES and PAUL LEAHY were at the N.C.A.A. tournament baskclball game in Columbus last March, when Notre Dame defeated Miimi University of Ohio. 
Tlie HUBERT KlRCHMr\NS, of Bay City. Mich., \-isited the BILL COSTELLOS, now of Chicago, this spring, and the result was an eve­ning phone call to South Bend. (I sec Hub and his cousin Frank at every Michigan State football game.) 
TOM JORDAN is a frequent \-isitor at home basketball games, and at those played In Chicago . . . which is understandable with his brother JOHNNY being the head coach. Other old '38 basketball players who visited with Jordan (Johnny, that is) were PAUL NO^VAK, at the Madison Square Garden Christmas tourney, and JOHN*NY O'CONNOR and JI.M CARSON, at the Butler game, in Indianapolis. x\nd of course R/\Y MEYER is always present when DcPaul is the opponent. 
More basketball. . . . At the quarter-finals of the 
N.C.A.A. tournament games. In Lexington, Ky.. FR.\NK (BUB) CROWLEY, now a Lexington druggist, was In the audience .. . at the time of the Christmas tourney, in New York, I bumped Into CLIFF TALLMAN, in the Commodore Hotel lobby .. . at the Holy Cross game, in Boston, I had a short visit with JOHN KELLEY and his wife . , . and at the Butler game, in Indianapolis, with JERRY SHINE. 
Around graduation time, I bumped Into ED K.VVANAUGH, at the South Bend airport. He had been in town with his family for a wedding. 
DR. JACK LUNDGREN, once of Sioux City, but now of California, Long Beach, I believe, made a quick risit to the campus In the company of Vice President Nixon, last fall while the presiden­tial campaign was going on. He was NLxon's physician on a part of the campaign tour. 
MAJOR D.\N MONAGHAN, temporarily of the Army Medical Corps, should be winding up his European mllitar>' tour and returning to his native Denver as plain Doctor Monaghan about this time. 
TOM MULLIGAN, Cleveland barrister, was co-chairman of an alumni Knut Rocknc CommunioD Breakfast, in his home city, this spring. 
JACK THULIS and BILL COSTELLO live a block from each other in the Be\'erly section, OD the far south side of Chicago. 
PAUL F. EBLE has been appointed to the fac­ulty of Tri-Statc College of Engineering and Com­merce, Angola, Indiana. Paul has previously been a dealer in farm equipment, an engineer with the electric company and the army engineers, and a radio officer in the army signal corps, seni-Ing over­seas in India and China. 
EDWARD W. SNELL has been appointed a project engineer in the Engine Division of Cater­pillar Tractor Company, Peoria, Illinois. 
From HAL WILLIAMS: 
In July, during a blazing heat spell and what must have been a moment of Irrationality, I voltm­tccred to assist with this column until wc meet on campus next June at the 2Qth Reunion of our class. 
By .August 10 the contract of CHARLIE ("I've got enough troubles") CALLAHAN had been bought up for three half-filled books of green stamps, I had been 5%%'om In, and questionnaires had been sent to the 498 still carried on the class list. By August 23 more than 100 questionnaires and letters had poured In. There was also a long-distance telephone call from HAL LANGTON, now in the athletic equipment supply business in New Jersey. He wants to sell the reunion committee—now I'm not quite sure of this because we had a bad con­nection, but I think it was something to do with 498 pith helmets and/or some pink and purple t-shirts, a surplus Item from a reunion of Y.M.CA­night school students in South Jersey, which he was willing to let us have at a special price. 
But to get back to those questionnaires. Tbcf came rolling in from such points as. Seattle, Brook'­tyn, Sioux Falls. S. D., Pasadena, Calif., Chicago, Fort Wayne, Elkhart, New Albany, South Bend, even Mishawaka, Ind. (Yes, some of our classmates have settled there.) One came from a monastery, another from a Bishop, one from the Harvard School of Business Administration—ED WRAPP is a professor there—another from a state prison. Don't get excited, the classmate is on the staff, not behind bars. Many replies came In expensive, \\'ater-markcd envelopes. Two arrived with postage due. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ October-November, 1957 49 
I think ihrcc genrralizat'ioiis can be drawn from the questionnaires. There is no doubt whatsoever that wc arc getting old. Item one, JAMES M­S\VEED\'K, who is cliicf engineer lor the Rudy Manufacturing Company, Dowagiac, Micfi., reports "that the oldtst of his four children is in the seminar>-. Item two, JOHN* M. LEADBETTER, an electrical contractor specializing in hea\'>* indus­try' and commercial projects in and around ^far­
•quctte, Mich., sa>'s that he has registered his •oldest son Jack to enter Notre Dame next year. Item three, and this is going to make you shake that balding head. GEORGE McDERMOTT, man­ager of the Oklalioma City branch of Wiles and Company, investment bankers, is a grandfather. If this is any consolation, George thinks he is tlic first one. 
Second generalization: the class lias produced a great many successful business and professional men. A surprising number arc presidents of their companies, a great many more hold such titles as works manager, chief engineer, comptroller, etc. Tliirdly, and this made the most impression on me, a great manv stress tlic role that religion plays in their lives. DR. DANIEL E. BOYLE expressed It better than anyone else. Finlsliing an uncom­pleted sentence in the questionnaire he wrote, "I*m glad that I had a lot of graces and favors bestowed •on us to beget, raise and keep Iiealtliy our tribe." Speaking of tribes—I must say tliat this is a productive class. On the basis of present informa­tion DR. THO.M.\S M. HUGHES and "CHUCK" SWEENEY are tied for the lead with nine children cacli. Tom, wlio is practicing medicine in Colum­"bus, Ohio, writes that tlicir tenth child was born in December, I93C. (One child died.) His address is 1975 Arlington .Ave. "Chuck," manager of the South Bend branch of tlie Sinclair Oil Co., has six girls and three boys. He says that he has lost 10 pounds and has gray hair. Tliat's understandable. 
Four classmates among those reporting are tied in the family s**'ccpstakes with eight apiece. DANNY BOYLE has five bo\-s and three girls. He is on the medical staff of the New Jersey State Prison at Trenton and has a private practice in neuroIog>' and psychiatrj'* CARL JANSKY, tvho lives in Fcrdig, Montana, and is in business for himself in oil production and drilling, has six girls and two bo>-s. JOHN F. CLIFFORD, one of the Clifford boys, has sbc hays, and two girls. He is a manu­facturers agent, living in St, Paul. Incidentally, he reports that his brother, JOE, is a dentist in Nei*' Haven, Conn., their home town. 
O^VEN KANE, that old Nebraska boy, lias five sirls and three boys." He lives in Aurora, 111., is president of the Kane Ford Sales, Inc.. and is also president of the Notre Dame Club of Aurora. An­other with ciglit cliildren is "SWEDE" BAUER, who owns and operates the Lindsay Soft Water Co. and a lawn sprinkler ixtmpany—can*t make out the name, "Swede"—in South Bend. Tlie Baucrs have six girls and two boys. "Swede** writes. *'Saw WALT DUNC.\N last June at the Serra national convention in Los Ancclcs where I drove the entire family. Saxv 'BUNNY' McCORMICK on a similar trip three years ago. Sec TOM BOHEN in St. Paul every year on my trip back to Minnesota. Tlie Bohens. with five kids, arc probably getting tired of putting up our whole fam­ily ever>* time we go ihrougli St. Paul, but tliey still keep asking tis." *'Swede,'* as you probably know, is the founder of the Christian Family ifovemcnt (CFM) in the United States. The tenth anniversary of the founding was celebrated in South Bend on St. Patrick's Day. Busy Bauer is also cliairman of the board of Fides Publishing, a Chicago concern. 
To get back to the family sweepstakes. JOHN 
L. JEHLE, president of the Alton Plumbing and Heating Corp., of Alton, III., has five girls and tvvo boys. He urilcs, "I've had a peaceful existence." 
Four of those reporting are tied with six. EDMOND R. "TEX" HAGG.AR, of Dallas, has four boys and two girls. He is president of the Haggar Company. With characteristic modesty be adds, "We draw for titles out of the hat." RAY LONGSTRETH, partner in the RoseWlle Charcoal and Mfg. Co,, of Zanesrillc, Ohio, has five girls and one boy. He says that he has seen RICHARD GERL, JOHN JOILVNNES and talked to LEON LANCASTER. R. N. "NICK" LAMBERTO, one of the stars of the Des Moines Register, has three girls and three boys. Nick writes. "Tlic question­naire caught up with me on vacation at Grand Beach, Mich., where my wife's folks have a summer home. Had a pretty good year-I had the one big story of '57 in Des Moines so far—the wild flyer who terrorized the city for four hours. Also look an overnight cruise aboard the Nautilus in May (saw JIM McGOLDRICK in New York) and accompanied a Strategic Air Command wing ovcr-
JOHN B. CARON, H5 

The Board of Directors of Caron Spinning Co., Rochelle, III., has an­nounced the election of John B. Caron as Presiden t of the company. The former President and Founder, O. J. Caron, who has been a member of the Notre Dame Advisor)' Council for the College of Commerce for many years, was elected to the newly created post of Chairman of the Board. 
John has scr\'ed as Treasurer of the company for the past ten years. A Chemical Engineering graduate, he is President of AVoolknit Associates, a trade organization, and a member of the American Association of Textile Technologists. 
During World AVar II, John served as an officer in the U. S. Navy. He was married last November to Ann Fitzgerald. 
The Caron Spinning Company, manufacturing worsted and S)'nthetic yams, operates plants in Rochelle, III., arid Robesonia, Pa., with subsidiaries in Rochelle and Prairie du Chien, AVis. 
The company was founded by the elder Caron in 1916. 
seas. Flew a 3,(HX)-mtlc mission in a B-47 and got to Germany, France and Italy. Saw the Pope.** BOB HOLTZ, treasurer of the ^tartin Band Instru­ment Co, in Elkhart, has three girls and three boys. He also is president of the South Bend cliaptcr of the National Association of Accountants. Four classmates have five cliildren each. JOHN 
D. THOMAS, who lives in E\'anston and is director of labor relations for the United Biscuit Company of America, has five hoys. The youngest is three mcnt Co. in Elkhart, has three girls and three pliysiclan practicing in Brookl>*n, has three girls and two boj-s. The Smiths are expecting their sixth. Gene is president of the Flatbusli Medical Society. GEORGE H. SCHIRMER, JR., a lawyer with the firm of Burt and Schirmer in Freeport, 111., has four bov-s and one girl. George made a hole in one recently. GEORGE "HOOK" KER­WIN, manager of retail men's wear for Kcnvin's, Inc., in AVavcrly, Iowa, has tlircc boys and two girls. 
Tlien come the following with four: JIN( L/\HEY, president and general manager of Eckler Lumber Co. in South Bend, has three boys, one giri. He reports that he has built a cottage at Diamond Lake between LOUIS ANDERSON, R^\Y ROY, *4I, and DEWEY MYTON, '39, who are more commonly referred to as '*Water Skiing, Inc." EDDIE KILRAIN, who b directory production manager for the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. In Indianapolis, has two bov's and two girls. He says that he is proud to report that lie is still able to play football and basketball with the neighborhood high school boys. GENE VASLETT, who was SCHOLASTIC editor our senior year, has three girls and one boy. Gene is in Los Angeles working as media account super\'isor for Foote. Cone and Belding. a national advertising agency. JOHN SCHWARTZEL, state manager for Renfield Im­porters Ltd. in Kentucky and Tennessee, has four girls. Jack lives in New Albanv. Ind. He wants to get in touch with JOE .MANNEBACK, BILL SIXSMITH and DAN MURPHY. ERNIE MAURIN, sales manager for the West Point Oil Co. in Los Angeles has two girls and two boys. He lives in Pasadena. TO.M XJULLIGAN is living In Shaker Heights, Ohio, with his three boys and one girl. Tom k a narlner in the Cleveland law firm of Jones, Dav. Cockley and Rcairs. Tom re­ports. "I just learned that BOB ^^AZ^\NEC, widower, father of six. is to marry a widow mother of three." DON HICKEY, our South Bend cor­respondent, confirms that. Congratulations. Bnb. Good luck from all of «s. WILLIAM SIXSMITH, a pretty good golfer as I recall it. is an attorney with the Rockwell Manufacturing Co. in Pittsburgh. He has three boys and one girl. 
Two Brtlicsda, Md.. bo\-s also are fathers of four. JOHNNY BR/VDDOCK, one of the stars of JAKE KLINE's baseball team, has three bo>-s and a girl. He is a staff assistant with the Washing­ton Gas Light Co. In a very nice letter, he says that he has finally quit plavinc ba^ieball and Is now an umpire. He saw DENNY EMANUEL at a medical convention in Washington. GEORGE HOWARD Is president and proprietor of a general insurance agency in Washington. Everyone reports that he Is one of the richest men in Washington. He has three girls, one bov. His home address is 5210 Edgemoor Lane. Bc'thcsda. JIM REG.AN, %v-ith the cattle buying and feeding firm of Rrgan­Ref^au and Hess in Omaha, has two bo>'s and two girls. He says he can still beat his oldest son. 16, at golf. 
Now to \-ar>* the topic and report on the reli­gious members of our cla.ss. TIic blslion referred to is the ^fOST REV. BERNARD J. TOPEL, bishop of Spokane. His excellency', who olitained a Ph.D. in 1938, writes, "I was in charge of religious voca­tions in ihe dioci:sc of IfrVna. ^fo^tana. before coming to Spokane." F.VTHER "GUS" SIDLER Is a monk in the Portsmouth Priory In Porlsniouth. 
R. T. He is treasurer of the communllv. FATHER ANTHONY GO.MEZ is an assistant at Santo Christo pariOi in Fall River. Afass. FATHER JOSEPH CIECKA, a member of the Holy Cross order, is assistant pastor at St. Ca'^imir's parish in South Bend. FATHER THO.MAS CLE.\RY writes from FreeWIle, N. Y.. "I am a secular priest of the Diocese of Rochester and pastor of the Drydcn Catholic Mission and chaplain of the George Junior Republic In Free\-ille. I was or­dained to the holy priesthood in 1942. After leav­ing Notre Dame I domplefrd my studies at St. Bernard's Scminarv In Rochester." FATHER ADRIAN JOE RACE is assistant oasior of St. Barbara's parish In Mllu-auVec (20fi9 South 32nd Street). He writes, "I am still a curate hut moving closer to the dav of my first pastoral appointment. After close to 13 vcars in one oari'Ii I was trans­ferred to St. Barbara's." BROTHER REGINALD, C.S.C., is principal of St. Joseph's High school in South Bend. 
Now, taking the questionnaires off the pile, one by one: TOM FL\'NN is staff assistant to the Secretary of the Interior on public land matters. Tom. who lives in Bethcsda, Md., adds with pride, "I haven't gained any weight since I left N.D." But that's not what DON CURRIER reports. Don, who is president of the Currier Lumber Company in Detroit, writes in a fine letter, **Tlie suggestions 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November^ 1957 
The Dores of the Detroit-Dcarbom area are making history in the life insurance industry. Ed^vard J. Dorc, flanked by sons Edward, Jr., '43, left, and Thomas, '49, right, have dis­tinguished themselves with an unprecedented accomplishment. Theirs is the first case of a father and two sons all qualifying for membership in the Million Dollar Round Table in the same year- The three Dores each put into effect at least 81,000,000 of life insurance protec­tion among families and businesses in the area during 1956. 
in the quest ion nairi- were provocative. In fact after glancins ttirtn over tins old timer dusted off the '38 Dome, lookvd up his graduation 'portrait' and compared it with tlie 'spectacle' in the mirror and 'Stammered, 'How can it be?* .. . At last count I weiglied 215 pounds, against 135 in 1938." Don. who has one son, lives in Grossc Point Farms. He adds that he has been teaching high school seniors moral philosophy, scriptures, etc., for six years In lay aposlolate work. '*! learned a lot from theni," he says. PAT Ci\REY, writing from that legendarj-Indiana metropolis. Kokomo, reports that he is with Kingston Products Corp., which manufactures sidewalk roller skates. Sudden thought: Why don't we have Pal furnish roller skates for ever>'onc at the reunion. Along about 4 o'clock some morning we'll put them on and race into South Bend to see what's doing. Tlie richest man in the class could put up some prizes. Pat mentions that J.ACK ANTOX "free loaded one night while on an expense account." Jack is the most "picked on" man in the class. In his questionnaire DOX HICKEY notes that he bumped into AXTOX not long ago, adding "how could I miss him at 275 pounds." BOB LEONARD passes along the nc%vs that he is now in Kinston. N'orth Carolina. He's chief 5upcr\*isor of manufacturing of DuPont's new Dacron plant. .He has two boys and a girl. RUSS LOX'GDON', another classmate who has done ver\­well, lives in Dearborn, Mich. He is comptroller of DeSoto Division of Clir>*slcr. He has two boys and two girls. SCOTn ' RE^VRDOX, certainly one nf the most popular men in the class, is back in Sioux Falls, S. D., where he is assistant general manager of the Dakota Iron Store, He has two girls and a boy- Another one of the popular fellows was MIKE CROWE who now makes his home in San Gaoricl, Calif., where he teaches history and scr\'cs as basketball and baseball coach for Old San Gabriel Mission High Scliool. He sa\-s that "BUXXY" McCORMICK has left coaching for bnslness. He adds that JOHX LUXGREN is a 
Long Beach, CaliL. doctor and that RAY MEYER "is still the same fine guy." Mike has two girls, one boy. WALT MOXACELLI recently resigned from Koppers company In Pittsburgh where he was manager of the patent department for seven years. Ife is now practicing as a patent attorney in Cleveland and living in Shaker Heights. Walt was too modt'st to mention but someone else passed along the word that he iios four degrees. He aho has two girls. 
BILL K/WEXY is the proprietor of the Palmyra Farm Supply Co. in Palmyra. X. Y. He Is also president of the Palmyra Community Center and a coach in Bahc Ruth baseball. He says that JOHX TROSKOSKY, abo of Palravra, is "balder than a billiard ball and so am \." TOM GARVEY is chief research engineer of carbon bar products for United States Steel in McKcesport. Pa. He has a hoy and a giri. TOM ROOXEY is Western Division Sales manager for Xarragansett Gympan­sium Equipment Co. He moved to Sherman Oaks, Calif., in June from Columbia. Mo. He has two girls and a bov. JACK SOLOX^, or, to give him his full name.' FAUSTIX J. SOLOX, JR., is a partner In the firm of Degnan, Solon and Cook. public relations counsel. In Toledo. He says that lie has bumped into JIM BURGESS, a major in the Army, VIC BECK, BOB SCHR.\MM, and JOHX HURST. He has two girls and a boy. JOHX' R. KELLEY, who was bald when he was a sopliomore, Ls back in Medford, Ma5S. He Is credit and accounts receivable supervisor of a General Foods Corp. dii'ision. John, who has two children, has been president of his parish Holy X'ame Society for two years. DICK GERL is In business for himself in the lumber business in Manitowoc. Wis. FRANK WINTER is division tlirector, Minnesota and Iowa diWsIon. of Green Giant Co. in LeSucur, .Minn. He has two boys, two girls. JOE LUDUIG is assistant principal of Herbert Hoover Junior High School in San Francisco. He has one daughter. 
From CHUCK SWEENEY: "A few months back, I sent a letter to all mem­bers of the class, telling of the misfortunes of one of our classmates, CARIXTOX MacDOUGALD, who a couple of years ago, while riding with his wife, had had a serious accident. Their car was hie by a hurricane. Mac suffered two broken legs, a broken arm, lost roudi blood, and today, two years later, is still confined to a wheel chair. His wife suffered a broken leg and a concussion. For­tunately, their three young children were not with them at the time of the accident. Nevertheless, the doctor and hospital bills were enormous— somewhere around $30,000. I asked for help from everybody in the class, and the response was won­derful. Tlie first check I sent to Mac was for $2,223.50. After this had been m^Ied, an addi­tional $275 was received, w-hich was sent on to Mac .Altogether then, the class contributed $2,49830. 
"It had been my original intention to list the contributors, and the amounts given, in this column. But after a chat with Jim Armstrong, our Alumni Sccrctar\', I changed my mind, 
"Jim stated to me: *I would suggest just making the gift from the class as a ^vholc. Possibly, one or two of Mac's close friends didn't contribute— for \'arylng reasons, such as ha\ing had a change of address and not receiWng your letter. He might feel bad on that. Abo, the listing of amounts given is not always a good idea. You know that evcr\-one gave to the best of their indnidual abili­ties, and with no thought of seeking credit.*' 
"So, fellows, on Jim's advice, and he certainly hxs had more experience with such things than any of us, there will be no listing of contributors. All of your letters have been forwarded to ^lacDougald, and I know he appreaated receiving same. 
"This therefore is the letter of acknowledgment to all contributors. And as a result of thr won­derful response, I want to say I'm most happy to be a member of the class of 1938. 
Signed: Charles Sweeney 
Letter from Carleton MacDougald 

Dear Class of 1938: 
The generous end unexpected contribution from you has made mc and my family vcrj* happy. 
I am still on crutches, wearing a brace, and my wife occasionally suffers still some lapse of memory-. My major problem now b the post-accident ostlo­melltis, which wc are fighting. 
But as you saw from the picture, my wife and I are together with our youngsters, and I am pur­suing as much business acti\'ity as I can, and making headway. 
Because of these blessings, we had not.sought or hoped for generosity such as yours. We appreciate it sincerely as an extra favor from Our Lady, and wc hope that you who contributed materially or by prayer \vi\l also some day know some similar favor. 
Yours In Notre Dame, 
Carleton '"Mac" MacDougald 

CHARLIE OSBORN, one of the stars of the Wranglers, is now a partner with the dbtingubhed Seattle firm of Bogle, Bogle and Gates (if anyone wants to cable Charlie the cable address is "Bogle Seattle). Charlie specializes in txx law. He also is Notre Dame Foundation governor for the State of Washington. He has two boys and a girl. In the same mail came the questionnaire of JERRY K^\X''E, also in Seattle. Jerry Is assbiant manager of commercial sales for the 707 jet transports, working for Boeing Airplane Co. Jerry, who has three glHs and a boy, says that he has taken his wife to Havana and Madrid on sales trips, cele­brated his 17th wedding anniversary and gained 10 pounds. 
DR. EDWARD S. McCABE, 512 .Anthtvyn Road, Mcrion, Pa., b an internbt practicing In and around Philadelphia. Ed was selected as a con­cultont In medicine by the Surgeon General of the United States Army and toured Europe for two months on an inspection trip for the S.G. He Is a fellow of the Philadelphia College of Physi­cians and the .-Vmerican College of Physicians. Ed also b an assbtant professor of Medicine at Temple University School of Mediane and has publbhed some 30 articles in medical literature. He has two 
. girls and a boy. He reports that DR. JACK LUNGREN b the personal phj-slcian to Vice Presi­dent Robert NLton. 
BOB O'BRIEN, a partner in O'Brien & San­derson Insurance Agency, Fort ^Vayne, says that he is proud to admit that lie is "married, scrvxd four years overseas in tlie army, adopted ilirce children, founded and helped build the largest in­surance agenc\' in Fort \Va>'ne and saw all Notre Dame home football games." And, he adds, *'suf­fered like heck last year." 
JOHNNY PLOUFF is special sales reprcscnta­timc for Sinclair Refining Co. in Milwaukee and has two bo)^ and two girls. BILL TOBIN is sales rcprcsentalive for Jcffrcys-Spaulding Mfg. Co. He lives in Birmingham, Micli., and has two children. JOHN P. M.\HONEY is an attorney practicing in Ashtabula, Ohio. He is not married. On the back of 'his questionnaire, he writes, "Wc are in the process of starting a club here in Northwestern Ohio. At the first meeting two classmates were there—JOHN E. L\'NCH, 1738 46th St., Ashtabula, and PAT STILLlS/\NO who lives in AVilloughby, Ohio. I have often wondered what became of JOHN HEAD, ED SNELL, 'TINK" CUTHBER­SON, D.AN RYAN, JOE O'BRIEN and VINCE DUGGAN.*' If you fellows would drop John a line ho'd probably be the happiest man in Ashtabula. 
FRANK KESICKE lives in Yonkcrs and is loan officer for the Ninth Federal Savings and Loan Assn. of N. Y. C. He says he is ashamed to admit that he has gotten fat but proud to admit that he has been able to meet his mortgage payments. *'God has been good to me/' he concludes. He has two boys. C. R. ^\'EBSTER is manager of plastics quality control for the Dow Chemical Co. in Mid­land, Mich. He has two bo>-s. Bob sa\-s that he is proud to admit that he "has survived." A great many of the classmates made much the same statement. JIM DRISL.4NE, another lawyer in pri\-ate practice lives in Albany, N. Y. He has a fivc-ycar-old girl. 
Now, before JOHN CACKLEY slams that dead­line In my face, just a few more fast paragraphs. In case anyone is wondering what I do—I'm still with "TTie Sunpapers" in Baltimore. After serving in Europe as a foreign correspondent in 1949 and 1950, I came back to Balltmore, worked on the Evening Sun city desk and cur executive news department. For the last three years I've been editor of the Sunday Sun. I have u-ritten three books and have just begun work on another. ^Ve have three daughters and the youngest, 2V^, is v.'illing to eat—and often does—an>thing that I write. 
Since I started writing this column for the Sep­tember issue a great many more questionnaires have arrived. I'll bold them over until the next issue when I'll also render a report on suggestions made for the 20th reunion in June and nominations for the Spotlight Alumnus feature. Incidentally. at least four of the bo>-s suggested themselves as Spotlight subjects. One -wss kidding, but I'm not sure about the others. 
And, now, as the deadline falls with a thud, my final words—^If you want another column packed w^th names and so long that it pushes the younger classes *^vay back among the Book Store's ads for Notre Dame drinking glasses, just keep those ques­tionnaires and letters rolling in. That means i*ou, too, CHARLIE C/\LLAHAN, wherever you are. 
From Alumni Office: Appointment of DR. A. O. ZOSS as manager of manufacturing administration, chemical products group, has been announced by ^finncsota Mining & Manufacturing Co. Dr. Zoss received B.S., 
M.S. and Ph.D. degrees In chemistry from Notre Dame. 
1 939 Ja^cs N. Motschall 
Singcr-Motscliall Corp. 
10090 W. Chic^o 
Detroit 4, Midugan 

AV'ALTER H. JOHNSON, JR., \ice-presidcnt in charge of passenger sales for American Airlines, the world's largest passenger airline, was the sub­ject of a ver>* compliment3r>- profile in the New York World Telegram S: Sun recently. The article told how Walt, 3 history- major when he ^v-as at Notre Dame, is really wrapped up in his job as an airline exec 'Walt lives in Osslning, N. Y., with his wife and four children. 
1 940 J^™^ G. Brown 
625 Madison Avenue 
New York, New York 

Just before starting this column I was thumbing thru the last issue of the ALUMNUS and noticed the spotlight on BILL O'BRIEN. I haven't seen 
JOSEPH M. HUGHES, '37 

Having advanced rapidly from Assistant Engineer, through Supervisorj Transmission Maintenance Engineer, Supervising Engineer and Service Fore­man, to District and Division Plant Manager, Joe Hughes has recently been appointed Assistant Vice President of Indiana Bell Telephone Company-
Joe graduated in Electrical Engineer­ing, and received an M.S. in Physics at Notre Dame in 1939. He j'oined Indiana Bell in Indianapolis and has been there ever since. 
In 1940 Joe married KathrjTi Louise Stauder, -whose brother Lawrence is an Associate Professor of Electrical Engi­neering at Notre Dame. The Hughes' have ^ve. children. Patty, 16, Michael, 11, Thomas, 8, Kathleen, 4, and Mar)' Beth, tliree months. 
Joe says he spends most of his spare time "entertaining the kids" or pursu­ing his hobby, sailing, on a reservoir a fe^v miles from Indianapolis. 
Bill in about two or three years but it is good to see that the men of '40 are moxing ahead in difTcrent fields. Have received a couple of fine letters which will help for tills issue: BILL COLE­AL\N writes from CIe\'cland where he Is linng \nth wife Liz and family of eight, the youngest just about a year old. As I mentioned to you, Bill has been ver>' active during the past year as national president of the Young Presidents Organization. It is interesting to note that '40 has three members in the organization: JOHN HENEBRY and JIM CLEARY arc the other two. Also as previously suggested it is now confirmed tliat TOM HOSTY is \«ith Sncere & Co. members of the Chicago Board of Trade and is very active in the grain market. Bill mentions that Tom is real sharp in this field so If you Chicago men are looking for someone to handle your commodity account give Tom a call. 
Next we have a fine, long letter from DOUG BANGERT. You have no idea how grateful I am for these letters of a couple of pages \%'ith plenty of names and news. Thank you Lt. CoK Douglas 
A. Bangcrt, USMC. As you can see from the rank and the service, Doug has been with the Marines since the war and is presently the Senior Marine Officer on the staff of the Chief of Nax-al Air Technical Training. Looks like Doug has been all thru squadron flight duty, instructor duty at staff school and attendance at Air Com­mand and Staff college. HaWng been thru the major portion of the V-5 flight training program myself I can appreciate some of the duties of la^'ing out a program for the training of the Corp's flight personnel. It w*3S and probably still Is a tremendous program academically and ph>'S­ically. Doug is married, has three children and, of course, has been all over the country and a good part of the Pacific In his travels and mentions that he and the family have thoroughly enjoyed the moving about. Afost of the Air Stations are good dut>' and when things are pressing a hop is al\va>'s convenient. Doug wishes to apologize for not having been at the reunions since graduation but he has been in the Pacific, in Korea and at a Presidential demonstration each time we had the reunions. Perhaps, by I960 things ^^T11 work out better. Another regular in service is JOHN McINTYRE. I had John located out in California but Bangert has recently seen him In Jacksonville. Chances are he was in both places at different times. John is a Commander and a flyer. Doug also mentions PAUL LENIH/\N whom he met re­cently in N.Y. I bumped into Paul a lew years ago on Lexington Ave. here in the dty, but he is now married, has children and is li\*ing up in Connecticut. Another regular in ser\*ice is LOU REILLY and was last seen by Doug in Alameda, California. Lou is also with the Na\y . . . Supply Corps; is married with a family and just as cheer­ful as he •v%-as years ago. Looks like all our '40 men were smart and stayed with the Navy (Marines being a subdi\-ision thereof). This last statement should get a rise from CIOLTNO who, I'm sure, is with the regular Army someplace and should have some rebuttal. Anyone else who is with the doggies and wants to reply will also be welcome. My thanks to Doug for a fine letter. 
Played golf recently with GERRY SEXTON and then had a I9th holer with GERRY SAEGERT. Not much new with either of them although I did see Marion and ED McLAUGHLIN reccntly and mentioned that it would be an excellent idea if I could^ get a picture of the families. Sexton has five prls, McLaughlin has five boys. Finally, Sextons had a boy so I vnW keep you posted on any new developments. It looks as tho there has been a change in the equinox. Speaking of pic­tures nobody has responded to the family album idea. Tills is tlie summertime, outdoor time, snap­shot time. You wives: send me a snapshot of the brood that keeps you so tied up all week. Have a note here that ELDRED E. YOUNG has been transferred to the Shell Oil Co.'s Emeryville Re­search Center. El i; a senior technologist with Shell and is living in Concord, California. He has his master's and doctorate from N.D. in Organic Chemistry. 
One of the most gratif>-ing experiences I have enjoyed in many moons has been the expressions of appreciation by correspondents for the column. It really is only a small contribution in the overall Alumni picture, but if you all \%ill participate in this flattery it WILL get you some place . . . right in the magazine and be sure to include the names of all men of MO whom you have seen, talked about, heard about, and don't forget those vacation post­cards. 
^O^ l James F. Spdlman 
James F. Spellman Co. 
7 East 42nd St 
New York 17, N. Y. 

Once again it is time to compile the various letters; notes and assorted data that I have re­ceived from classmates who heed the call of the secretary. To you who have not sent in any Infor­mation about yourselves and/or your alumni broth­ers, a further plea that you will help this poor "reporter" keep alive the *41 column in the ALUMNUS. 
One of our class who likes to read about our activities is BERNIE LIENHARD, a regular Na\y 
52 Notre Dame Alumnus^ October-November, 1957 
nian, who didn*t indicate his rank but sent one of the most complete letters I have received. Bcrnic's letter, dated June 2, indicates his address at 302 W. Myrtle, Alexandria, Va., and his pres­ent assignment. The Pentagon. It was because of the "extensive notes," as Bemic puts it, in the May-June ALUMNUS that prompted him to write his letter. Please take note, other ahimni! 
Bernie is ex '41, haWng joined the navy in 1940, the V-7 program. He had intended to come back and graduate with the class, but it was not to be. He was on tlie USS Shaw, in drjdock at Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, but came out unscathed; saw service in the Guadalcanal and Xew Guinea campaigns; was an instructor at the Naval Tng. Center, Miami, Fla-, for a year; at the war's end he was executive officer on a de­stroyer transport in Tokyo Bay. Successively, in September, 1945, he was CO . of the USS Sims, which became the HG for the Strategic Bombing Sur\'ey, a sur\'ey of the atomic bomb damage to Hiroshima. After bringing this ship back to the Slates to join the mothball fleet, he was appointed executive officer of the USS Catamount, a landing ship dock. On this ship he visited Trinidad, Port dc France, Martinique, Puerto Rico, Labrador and many east coast ports of the U. S. In 1950, Bcmic was ordered to the Amphibious Tng. Command, .\t1antic Fleet, as Chief ot Staff for Logistics. From 1952 to 1954, he was in command of the destroyer Sigoumey on which he saw much travel. From the Caribbean through the Panama Canal to San Diego, Honolulu. Midway and Japan. Then after a Ions time in Far Eastern waters, he returned to the States by way of the Suez Canal. Stopped at Hong Kong, Singapore (went to ^fass there on Christmas Day, 1953), Ceylon (where he celebrated New Year's Eve!), Aden, Naples, Cannes, Gibraltar and Lisbon where he visited Fatima; returned to Norfolk, Feb., 1954, and in June took the mid-, shipmen on their annual cruise to Europe. On this latter trip, he visited Spain. LcHaxTe and Paris. He notes that he made trips to the Shrine of San­tiago del Compostcllo in Vego, Spain, and to the Little Flower of Lisieu?c. 
Bemie is waiting for an assignment to foreign shore duty. Ife may have received it by this time. His wife and two children enjoy the travel as much as he does. 
Bernie remembers when he was to be roommate with that notoriously poor letter-writer, PAUL PUGLIA, for the senior year in Walsh. Ah, those were the best days of all, Bemie! 
Near the end of his letter, Bernie notes that he used to see FRED HOLL occasionally in Norfolk. Fred \v-as a Lt. Cmdr. in tiic Na\-al Supply Corps. Tlwnks, Bernie, for the most interesting recount of your activity. Don't forget to drop me a line from your next place of duty. 
ARTIE HUMBY has changed the name of hb Comptometer Operators Business Service to Tem­porary Help, Inc. He is located at 1674 Broadway, 
N. Y. C. Lives with his wife and four cliildren in a new house "out in the stix" on Jeanne Court, Stamford, Conn. Is a fellow AF Reserx-ist in the 9212th AFRes. Sq., at 346 Broadway. Artie reports on the following: 
WALT 0'ME/\RA—lives in Darien, Conn. Has five children; teaches at Stamford High School. Is in Artie's parish. 
AL PERRINE, formerly with United Cerebral Palsy, Inc., is now with American Cancer Society. 
JOHN KANE, who was at the Reunion in 1956 is a Senior Project Engineer with Underwriter Labs, in New York City. John and his wife and three children live at 29 Oregon Drive, Huntington, 
L. I. John reports— 
GENE DUCKWORTH is manager of the Cathode Ray Tube Planning section of RCA at Harrison, 
N. J. Gene lives at 9 Western Ave., Chatham, 
N. J. (Gem.—the mayor of Chatham is a friend of mine). JIM TE(\GARDEN is in the food business in Oak Harbor. Ohio. JACK LANDRY com­municated with him at Christmas. Jack is married and has two ch'ildren. JACK SCHAFR^VNSKY lives in Oak Park, III., and recently sent a birth announcement. 
John told me about HUB SCHL/\FLY who is with Teleprompter Corp. in N. Y. C. I called Hub and he invited me to lunch only last week. Hub is Vice-Pres. in cliargc of Engineering. He went with Gen'l Electric after graduation. In 1947 GE loaned him to 20th Centur>* Fox where he was Director of TV Research, in N. Y. He is a Fellow of the Society of ^fotion Picture and TV Engineers. In 1951, Hub and two others con­ceived the idea of Teleprompter, and formed a corporation. Needless to say, the business has been a wonderful success. (i\s you noticed in 
JAMES D. McCANN, '32 

Jim McCann has been named by Heidelbei^ Eastern, Inc.. distributor of automatic printing presses, as General Sales Manager for the firm's four di­xasions east of the Mississippi. 
After graduation Jim entered the field of real estate brokerage and man­agement with his father, making a success of it despite the depressed state of business. In 1938 he married Vivian Wentz, a graduate of the College of New Rochelle in the home town. 
Volunteering in 1942, Jim rose to the rank of major in the Army. His father having died, he returned to New Rochelle witli another real estate firm as a vice-President and sales manager. Jim started with Heidelberg Eastern as a sales representative and quickly advanced to the post of Regional Man­ager, opening the first Middle West branch office in Columbus in 1952, thence to the top sales job. 
Heidelberg Eastern distributes presses manufactured in Heidelberg, Germany. They are the only printing presses pro­duced entirely by assembly line, and 80,000 are in use throughout the world. 
An authority on printing, Jim be­longs to such trade organizations as the International Association of Printing House Craftsmen and the Printing Arts Association. 
Jim and Vivian have three children, Kevin James, 9, Valerie Joan, 7, and Marilyn Claire, 5. 
the papers, recently. Sugar Ray Robinson insisted that Teleprompter Corp. be the outfit to TV the­6ght u*ith Basilio). Hub showed me the various-items of eqm'pment and their function. Hub was interested in finding DON CASSIDY, so I showed him Don's letter that was quoted in an earlier ALUMNUS. Hub treated me to a delicious lunch, after which he had to leave as he is a very busy man. His home is in HoUis, L. I. 
BERT KELLY is assistant to the merchandising manager at Altman's on Fifth Avenue. I met Bert in Mid-July. He reports that he saw JOE GIL­LESPIE and wife in town during May, this year. Bert reasons thai Joe must really be in the chips —he had tickets to "My Fair Lady." How come those "foreigners" can get to shows us natives can't? Another alumnus who decided to write after reading obout his classmates is WALT BREN­NAN, M.D., 706 Duke St., Alexandria, Va. Walt writes that since leawng X.D., he went to med. school, after ^vhich he spent two years interning, then in the army, part of which he spent in Europe. Went to Walter Reed Hospital for resi­dency training in psychiatr>\ AVas married some­where in between these periods of activity. In 1953, after being at Ft. Lee, Va., he ^vas released from the service. Started his cirilian practice im­mediately thereafter. He and his ^rife have three children, ages 8, 7 and 3. Walt admits to a la-xity in not being at N.D. Club meetings in the past; but indicates he intends to be more active now*. Let me know if you see any of our class, Walt, and many thanks for the letter. 
A card from BILL STURM announces that Haskins & Sells has admitted Bill as a member of the firm. Congratulations, Bill. Our class has also LOU AfacKENZIE and LARRY WALSH as members of the same accounting firm. How about some news from you upper level accountants? A notice in the June 3 issue of the NY "nmes caught my e>e. It announced that J.AMES H. SHEILS, 
N.D. '35, had been admitted to the firm of Mc-Manus St Walker, members of the NY Stock Ex­change. Jim used to be Commissioner of Investi­gation for the City of NY. Later he was a partner with JIM McGOLDRICK and ED FALLON in a law partnership. Both Jims are past presidents of the N.D. Club of NY. Our very best wishes to Jim Shells In his new endeai>'or. 
That is the end of the current data. Hope you readers send me more material for the next dead­line. I'll be at the Army game on October 12 with pad and pencil; so if you are going to attend, bring your data W'ith you and unload it on me. It is a pleasure to write about you and your actiri­ties, so don't hesitate too long. 
1942 WiUiam Mark Hickcy 
3333 AVcst 47th Place 
Chicago 32, Illinois 

(Ed. Note: Since the Reunion Bill Hickey has been appointed the new 1942 Class Secretary and oflidal ALUMNUS correspondent. Our thanks to "Scoop" Scanlon for a fine job in the past, and best wishes to the ne*v secretary, who counts on you to insure his success by contributing news about yourself and classmates.) 
Received an interesting letter from MAURY KELLY who is now with the Aluminum Co. of America in Pittsburgh, which I quote as follows: 
"I \-isited with GEORGE and JANE BL^VTT and their sLx children in Cleveland. They are expecting another young one soon. George is very busy in the activities of the Cleveland alumni group, and I believe, was a co-chairman of their recent simimer dance. 
**PAUL KELLEY is prospering as a real estate agent in Dewilt, New York, which is just adjacent to his native Syracuse. He and his lovely wife Sally had a summer place in July up on Lake Ontario. The Kcllej-s have a little girl and boy. Paul has been doing a lot of golfing in and aroimd central New York, playing frequently with such stalwart Notre Dame alumni as his cousin DAN KELLEY ('41), JACK TERRY ('44), J.-\CK BARRY (*42) and TOM FAR.MER ('43). 
"I hear that JOHN MORLVRTY is a space selling representative for the publisher of a sports magazine. John is living in Crystal Lake, Illinois. 
"BILL FALLON is still in the Navy and is cur­rently residing near New York where he is sta­tioned. Bill is married and has four young typical Irish youngsters, one of whom Is my godchild. 
"EMMETT GRIFFIN is continuing his studies in chemistry here in Pittsburgh. Emmett is aiming toward a PhJ). in that subject and expects to achieve same very soon. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November, 1957 53 
**PHIL LOES has a beautiful Iioinc in a suburb of Buffalo where he and his wife Dorothy (an ahnnna of Nazareth College, Kalamazoo) arc Irad­ing the good, quiet life. Phil has been ver>- suc­cessful in the field of sales engineering. He j'oined a manufacturers repres-entativc agency- shortly after 
•\\'orld War II and about a year or so ago was made a partner. I believe tliat their chief interest Is in the field of industrial air conditioning. 
".\s an afterthought. 1 might say that TOM DILLON, after over 15 years of indebtedness to me, finally paid off in cigarettes. I think I kept him smoking for his first two years In school— at the reunion amidst great ceremony be presented me with a pack of Chesterfields. 
"Several of us bacliclors from the class of '42 were going to unite and form our own group, fear­ing contamination from all of the married lads. \\*c took a poll and discovered that tlie siii'ile *""'" arc those who during our scliool days, spent all of their time In study, leaving the si»clal life to those who preferred the company of the ladies of St. Mar>-'s." 
RBUWOn 
jMne6-7-8 
CUISS 
'43 
IQA 3 John L. Wggins 
• '^• ^ 4800 Fairla\vTi Drive LaCanada, California 

The big 15-year Reunion Is the important news of the column from now on in. W'c hope to have a record representation at the gala affair, but wc will need the help of everv'on*-" I" ''"= class. First of all, I would like to start begging for help from sonic rather sptxlallzed quarters. During the coming period before the Reunion weekend we will put into the mails some three or lour re­minders to stimulate attendance. W'c will need the services of someone in the graphic arts industry' to help us along here. Our press runs will prob­ably run In the neighborhood of 700. They will be simple—probably short letters—that could be easily run off. Since we have .io treasury. I hope that some printer(s) will volunteer a little press time and material gratis to implement our adver­tising the 15-ycar Reunion. You may remember the phenomenal 25-year turnout LOU BUCKLEY achieved at the time of our Ifl-year get-together. His advertising was the big spark, and be got the needed assistance right in his own class. So. please, any of you printers, artists, etc., please, please step for%%'ard Immediately. Send mc an .\ir Mail note today; we really need your help. Tlianks. 
Now for the second matter on the reunion— send mc a snapshot of your family so it can be posted on the bulletin board in the residence hall we will occupy. Please send one you can spare, because like they say in T\'^ ad.s. they will not be returned, ^[ost important: jot your name on the back of the snapshot so It can be Identified for other members of the class. 
.Arrangements are under way for the spot where we will hold the Friday night dinner. We are also appointing a local South Bend chairman who can coordinate with Jim .\rmstrong and John CacWey in the .-Mumni Office. The responses from our 
'questionnaire indicate a ver>* large turnout. 
The following information completes the dope gathered on the questionnaire. Some of the sheets continue to trickle in. If you have set yours aside, please get to it since the well has run dry on Class info. 
HERB MELTON is practicing law in Paducah. Ky., where he is also United States Commissioner for the Western District of Kentucky, He has two cliildrcn, a bov and girl. On a trip to Denver he saw J.ACK RY.AN and TO.M MITCHELL. Hcrb^s senior year roommate, DO^ POTTER, is employed by the Stewart "Warner Coq>, South "Wind Div. in Indianapolis, Ind. Don has five kids. ART HIEGEL has three children, lives in Weatherficld, Conn., and works for Pratt & Wlilt­ncy Aircraft. 
FATHER VINCENT (VIC) G. CULLEN, S.J., writes from San Miguel Cburcli, Linabo, Slalay­balay, Bukldnon, Philippine Islands—and, as Father \^c says, a rather long address for a little place. 
54 Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November, 
Jim McQuaid, '31 (seated), and Mrs. McQuaid (standing, far right) were members of a private audience with Pope Pius XII. Jim made a pilgrimage to Lourdes this past sunmier. The McQuaids live in Vinccnnes, Ind. 
He says: '"^ly working hours are a bit Irregular, as my job is visiting mountain villages In the area, about 30 of them. I can get to some of them by Jeep, but I walk to most of them, which as­sures me a lot of sunshine and exercise. Apart from saying Mass and administering the sacraments. I supervise the teaching of catechism, and act aa local doctor and whatnot In the small villages. My niouimate in Zahm xvas JI.M PURCELL, now liv­ing in Scarsdale witli nine cliildren—works in New York—Insurance. I saw LEN R/VMSEY, another one-year alumnus, on my way out here in "55: he is living in Denver; also saw HOWIE FAHEY who is living in White Plains, New York, I doubt if I will be able to make any reunions in the near future as my assignment to the P. I. is indefinite. If I run across any mountain boys that look like good football material, 1*11 send them over—you may need them." (Scry, note—Father Vic is a prophet! He wrote that last statement in the summer of '56 before the 2-8 season.) 
JOE KEUSCH writes from Muskegon, Mich., that he has a daughter, and that he is an em­ployitt of Standard Oil Co. BOB MURPHY is an Aero Engineer employed by Radloplane Co., Van Nuys, Calif. He ba.i three children. His senior year roommate, RENZO PESAVENTO, works for a Chicago engineering firm. Bob would like to hear from some of the other Aero Engineers. JOHN M. GREENE sells building materials to contractors In the northern Illinois and Indiana areas for the Delta Co. He has five kids. He wonders if HARRY FLORENCE is still In the Marines? FATHER JOHN R. QUINN Is Director of the Catholic Communications Center for the Diocese of Kansas Citv-St. Joseph. He would like to hear from FATHER TOM ATKINS. 
Old Number 9—TONY GIROUXMI—represents the City of Chicago as Corporation Counsel. Look fur him at the 15-year Reunion. JACK BREHMER most assuredly will be at the Reunion. He is still a South Bend worker for the South Bend Foundr\­
1957 

Co. He lias a daughter. BOB CARVER teaches ... Sociologv* at Cleveland's John Carroll University. , , TOM WELCH sells and manages real estate (also insurance) In Indianapolis. He has seven cliildren. Another Hoosier, JACK MORRISON, Is employed by the Visking Corp. in Terre Haute. BU\IR McCOWAN writes from Jackson. Mich., that la-can be reached at the Electric Wholesale Supply Co. Blair is the father of six kids. H.\ROLD HOFSTETTER Is the proprietor of Hofstetter Rexall Drug in Toledo (Trilby), Ohio. He is the , , immediate past president of the Trilby Chamber , of Commerce. ^ i 
FRED GOOSEX is employed by the Navios Corp. in Nassau. Bahama Islands. He has two sons. He would like to hear from FRxVNK (.MOE) HERBERT, Atlantic Monthly's circulation man­ager. Fred's senior year roommate, BILL JOHN­SON, is doing a great job for the Grand Union C<uiipaiiy in East Palerson, New Jersey. Bill hastens to let us know that CU is the eighth largest food chain In the country. Bill was married 'H last April- He will he at the 15-year reunion. If IJ you want the car with the swept-wing look check , with JOH.N BOSAK at Bosak Motors, Gar>-. In­diana. Baclielor John will be at the 15-year reunion sporting a Chr\-sler Imperial. I'm sure. 
BOB PADESKY writes the sad news that hi^ twin brother DICK has been stricken with polio and is at present in Warm Springs, Ga. Bob Is ccmnected with Electric .Auto Lite. He has four children. BOB THINES is practicing dentistry- in i East Aurora, N. Y. He has three children. JOE ^ j TRACY writes that he is practicing law at 70 Pine St.. New York. He has three children. His brother Bill managed a six-week vacation last year i to tour Europe. Joe says that DICK POAVERS is aljout nine months away from ordination In the Jesuits. Dick is at Woodstock College. Woodstock, Md. Joe said that he used to sec Dick occasion­ally with FRANK KUNKEL. Frank, an East Side cliff dweller, teaches English at St. John's U. Joe got together with JIM DOWNEY when he visited Florida on \'acatioii. Jim pracllct-s law in WVsl Palm Bcacli. 
FR.-VXK PACHIX, father of four sons, works for thi: A. L. Pachin & Sons, Inc., Dayton, Ohio. Frank's roonimate, BOB GILLETTE, is a G.E. sales engineer in the Xcu- Jersey area. TOM MILLER is an attorney in the Legal Dept. of DuPonC, Wilmington. Delaware. His senior year riMininiatc. JOHN DOERR, father of seven, prac­tices law in BtilTalo where with Bill Lawless, '44. he has formed a partnership. JACK HARRIGAN is engaged in engineering work for AIRescarch in Los Angeles. Jack recentiv moved to Encino, Cal. BROTHER NORMAX HE.\D, C.S.C., teaches at Gibanlt School for Boys. Terrc Haute, Ind. JI.M POIXS.VTTE has six children. He works for the x\nthony Motor Parts Corp., Fort Wayne. Ind. FRED KELLER writes from Cr>-stal Lake. III., that lie is connected with P & H Diesel Engine Co, He lias two sons and a daughter. 
.MIKE COMERFORD, former Scranton. Pa., realtor, has been appointed by llie Pennsylvania State Secretary of Conmierce as regional represen­tative of an 18-county area in Northeast Pennsyl­vania. Mike will assist local gnnips in promoting community improvement and industrial develop­ment projects. Mike has seven children. AL MUEXCH is a partner in Xeenali, Wise, Winni'­bago Sporting Goods Co. He also manages Mnench's Recreation Center (bowling and beer). He would like to hear from DO.V McGRAXX (whatever happened to that Canadian?). .-\l is active in civic organizations. He has three chil­dren. LOUIS SCHIRM ha>: five kids running around his Burbank home. He is employed by Magnasync .Mfg. Co.. Xorth Iroll>•^vood. JACK 
- TOBIX is a sports columnist for the Los .-Vngeles Mlrror-X'civs. He has a son. Jack hopes to make the long trek back for the reunion. HARRV Mc-KXIGHT is on the sales force of the Xorfolk office of Graybar Electric; Harr>' has three chil­dren. JOE JACOBS is employed by the Torring­ton Mfg. Co., Torrington, Conn. He has four children. Joe belongs to a whole hatful of civic organizations; his roommate. JOHX AXDRES, is an architect with the firm of Nappe & Johnson. 
' Xew York City. BILL 0*BRIE.V checks in daily at Radio Station WC^VX, Burlington, Vt. 
DR. LOU SPAG.XUOLO is an osteopathic sur­geon in Detroit, Mich. He has two boys and two girls. JOHX SCHERER audits for Gauger & biehl, Peoria, III., C.P.A.'s. John is the father of three, lie is a director of the Creve Coeur Club. BILL HERZOG is associated with IBM Customer Engineering School in San Jose, Calif. He lives in good wine country-. Los Gatos, Calif. Bill has four children. I suppose he runs into JAY GIBSOX who manages Schwabachcr's invest­ment agcnc\' in San lose. Calif. Bill's roommate. 
•* BOB BROOKS, is a Cleveland. Ohio. Nf.D. GEXE 
t FEHLIG works for the .Master Builders Co. in St. Louis. Gene has two sons and two daughters. LEIGH SULLIVAX is an osteopath practicing in Grand Junction. Colo. Leigh specializes in internal medicine. He has adopted three children. TOM FARMER is a consulting engineer in Dewitt. 
X. Y. He has three cliildren. ED CALL^VHAX is X'ew England sales rep for Dodge, Inc., "world's largest trophy manufacturer.'* Ed is the father of three. He hopes to get together at the .Army 
.' game with many of the classmates, TOM MOORE Is a partner in Clisby-Moore. Inc.. Birmingham. Ala., manufacturers agents. Tom hai a son and a daughter. TO.M COURTXEY is associated with Xorthern Illinois Corp., DeKalb. 111. He is the father of four. Tom's roommate, JIM MURPHY, is ranclting in Emigrant, Mont. 
MEL RU.M.MEL is on Staff Engineering at Lockheed's Georgia Div. in Marietta. He hxs two 
"* sons. Mel will make the Reunion and would like to V see several of the Aero Engineers there. BOB 
XEXXO Is j\ssistant Director Dept. of Psychiatry at Georgetown Univ. Medical Center where he tciclies medical students and residents. Bob is mar­ried and the father of seven daughters. George­town, incidentally operates the only fully accredited training program for psychiatrists in a Catholic institution in the U. S. Bob sees BILL .MIDDEX­DORF, JACK EDWARDS and ART KARTHEIS­ER. He understands that BILL BR^VDY is with the Washington (D. C ) Post & Times Herald, MARK PFALLER heads Mark Pfaller .Associates. Architects in Milwaukee, Wis, ^^ark has four sons.''His roommate. ED HOLL.VX'D, is engaged in architecture in PcnnsyU-ania. IRV ROSEX­BAU M is associated with Roscnbaum's in South Bend. He is the father of two daughters. He will b'c on hand for" the 15-ycar Reunion. BILL MID­DENDORF is selling ecclesiastical candles in the Washington, D. C , and Baltimore area. Bill has five daughters and two sons. Bill will be on Iiand 
-MARK J. WALSH, '36 

Upon joining the Lee Hotels Co. organization early this year Mark \VaIsh was elected Tieasurer and a member of the Board of Directors of the Southem California chain with five hotels in the Los Angeles-Holl\-\s-ood area. 
Mark began his hotel career at fifteen under his father, James ^V. Walsh, working after school and during vaca­tions in Illinois and Nebraska hotels. 
He has been a hotel executive in Nebraska and California, most recently as manager of the Casa de Vallejo, Vallejo, Calif., as well as an officer of several hotel associations. 
Before Noire Dame where he grad­uated "magna cum laude," Mark at­tended parochial schools in Nebraska and Illinois and St. Mar\''s and St. Benedict's Colleges in Kansas. In 1936 he married Katherine Bemice Kiler, and the \Valshcs have four sons: Robert K. and John Craig, aged 15 and 6, at home: Mark, Jr., 20, and Gregoiy O,, 18, attending Notre Dame, where Greg has a Burns scholarship and a first year average of 93.5. 
Mark has been active in the Knights of Columbus, Rotaiy Club, Chamber of Commerce and various civic and charitable organizations. . The AValshes live at 1188 Somera Road. ^Vest Los Angeles. 
for the Reunion. BERNIE TURNOCK is ivorkinj in South Bend in the Accounting Machine Sales of IB.Nf. He has four children. STAN MURRAY has located in Winter Park, Florida, where he works at the office of Dr. N. Coralt, Physiatrisu Stan is the father of three children. LOU LA JOIE is a Major stationed at Tinker AFB where he is in the Industrial ^fedicine Di\-ision. He has been overseas for about sis of the last ten years. He did manage the lO-year Reunion and hopes to hit the Ij-ycar get-together since it was onlv at the 10-year Reunion that he saw anv classmates. 
FR.\NK SHORTSLEEVE has been appointed .\s5mant Director of Research of the Metab Re­search Laboratories of the Electro Xfetallurgical Co., Div. Union Carbon & Carbide Corp. Frank received his .Nfaster's at -V.D. in 1947 and his Doctorate at Case Institute in 1933. He is the author or co-author of several papers on metal­lurgical subjects. 
Here are the results of the informal question­naire mailed to 653 persons on the Class of '43 mailing list—this is the little "poop sheet" mailed about one year ago. There were 206 replies, for which the old scribe is grateful indeed. Here are the results: \farried men, ISO; single, 9; religious, 15: widowed, 2. 
_ Tile 180 married classmates reported a total of 545 children, an impressive average of three per reporting person. • Of the 345 children there were 293 bo>-s and 230 girls. As for occupations, there might be a slight discrepa'ncy in the total numbers because it was at times difBcuIt to ascertain the . vact nature of the business in which the reporting individual was engaged, however, here arc the results on that facet: ifanufacturing, 73; law, 16; retail. 19; medicine, 14; insurance, banking, ac­counting. 17; government, 3; education, 5; utilities, 
4: constniction and architecture, 7; consulting en­gineering. 3; journalism, 2; entertainment (includes radio and TV), 3: athletics, 3; dentistry, 2; mor­ticians, 2: advertising, I; agriculture, 1. 
We hope to include a more comprehensive report on the Class at the 13-year Reunion based upon your response to the anonymous questionnaire which has been put in the mails. Please cooperate with us by mailing the forms to me immediately. We will have an idea of just what we look like 13 years after graduation. 
^94 4 C^'Se A. Bariscillo, Jr. 
515 Fifth Avenue 
Brailley,Beach, N. J, 

JOE F.ARRELL checked in from Westport, Conn., with an interesting account of his doings since graduation. "My travels," writes Joe, "have brought me to Oak Ridge, ^LLT., two years teadiing at X.D., more school but this time at Cornell, a four-year stint at M. W. Kellogg in Jersey City, and finally to my present location in the Commercial Development Division, American Machine & Foundry Co., Springdale, Conn. While at Cornell. I married Winifred Sieger of N. Y. C , and we now have four children, three boys and a girl." Joe reports meeting JOE L.\NE (Fairfield, Conn.) at a local social gathering, seeing TOAf SWEENEY at Ransburg Elcctrocoating Corp. on a trip to Indianapolis, and while with Kellogg in .V. J. seeing quite a bit of JOE BRENN,\N, EARL EXGLERT, JI.M FINNERAN and DAVE BAL­L.-VXTINE. Brennan is noiv in ^fontreal with the Canadian branch of A. T. & T. and Englert has returned to his native Louisville where he is in charge of catalyst sales for the Girdler Corp. Finncran is still with Kellogg in their Petrochemical dept. and Ballantinc is now at Brookhaven on Long L'iland. 
Joe concludes his welcome note by saying that he has "pretty much lost track of the '44 Ch.£. class members, e-xcept that recently I heard, through a mutual friend, that BILL 6'CONXELL b working in a research capacity for Du Pont in Buffalo. Perhaps my note will stir them into breaking down and sending a news note once in a while." (Ed. note: I sure hope so!). 
BOB SCHIL\.M.M has moved from Kansas City to Mamaroneck, N. Y.. and is located in the XV*C headquarters of Carbide and Carbon. He reports talking occasionally with R-\Y SMITH, who is Chief Engineer for the Teos City plant of Union Carbide Chemicals. Bob also brings us up to date on FATHER WLLIAM GRAHAM, C.S.C, who is teaching chemistry and chemical engineering in the new- Xotre Dame College in East Pakistan, where most of the students are ^foslem. Father Graham is assistant prefect of studies in addition to teacliing all the chemistry classes and overseeing all the labs. Bob also reports that LEO lARDY 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November, 1957 55 
is now Asst. Superintendent for Power at tlic Ash> tabula plant of Electro >fct., and that FRANK £CK is still living in Kansas City, working for Spencer Chemical Company in plastic sales. 
JACK CRAHAX, who operates a dry goods and floor covering emporium and is the father ol three bo>*s and a girl in Napoleon, Ohio, recently set a record on the local goU course when he played the par 3, 167-yard sixth, hole in three strokes—that is, a total of three strokes in two rounds. According to a clipping from the local paper, Crahan sent a 6-iron shot zooming right into the cup for a hole in one the first time around and on the next nine he laid the same 5-iron up to within B feet of the pin and knocked in his birdie putt. He'll be a tough man to beat on the N.D. course during our golf tournament in connection with our 15th reunion a year from next June. (The column would be interested in hearing from any other '44 men who have joined the famous Hole-in-One Club). 
During a \isit to Rochester, N. Y,, last fall Crahan reunioncd with JACK HEAGNEY, DICK MILLER and DICK KLEE. 
HERB CLARK has now left Park Ridge, III., and the Chicago area to take a position with the tcxtl-lcathcr division of the General Tire and Rubber Company in Toledo as product manager in diargc oi sales to bookbinders and publishers. He's the father of two candidates for St. Mary's, aged 10 and 6, and a future N.D. man, aged two. Herb was sorr^*, as ^v•c all were, to hear of the untimely deaths of Father JOHN J. BURKE, G.S.C.. and Father MUCKENTHALER, C.S.C., botK this past winter. 
OTTO J. ^ULETI, JR., who was formerly lab­oratory* supervisor of the Schacfer Varnish Co. in Louis\ilIc, has joined Napko Corp. as technical director of that paint and varnish firm in their new plant in Houston, Texas. 
BILL TALBOT, ever-faithful contributor to this column, came through with a couple of news notes. On a recent American Nat'L Theatre S: Academy crube up the Hudson Bill spotted LYLE JOYCE dancing with all the actresses. M%o aboard was BILL "MYLES" KELLY who is in the aluminum awning business In Neuijurgh, N. Y. 
BOB GALVlN*s picture recently graced the pages of Sports Illustrated. Did you happen to see it? 
^Vc ran across BILL WALDRON and his w'llc the other evening. They •were X'acationing here at the Jersey shore with their five little ones. 
And lliat about winds up the ne\vs for this trip-Wc plan to be at N.D. for the Pittsburgh and Nav-y games and \vill keep our eyes peeled for *44 men on tap. 
From the Alumni Office: JOSEPH D. O'KEEFE, a native of Chicago, will conduct the new Edscl agenc>* in Kalamazoo, Michigan. The Edsel, designed by the Ford Motor Company to compete in the "middle price" auto­mobiIc_ range, was introduced nationally the first week in September. Joe, formerly with the navy arid Outdoor Advertising, Inc., lives in Kalamazoo with his wife and two children. DR. ROBERT M. WfrUCKI has been appointed to the engineering staff of Aeroph^-sics Develop­tncnt Corporation, Santa Barbara, Calif., a sub­sidiary of Curtiss-Wright Corporation. Bob was previously a research dicmist at Coming Glass AVorks and directed research projects at Pennsyl­\-ania State Universit>-. 
10AC Al Lesmez I T^^ J22 TuDamore Road Garden City, N. Y. 
.\XYONE FOR PENCILS? As class secretary, I have been sending out pencils of the "best" available quality and most usable t\pe to some lucky members of the class, along with questionnaires to be filled out for ammunition for this coltunn. These pencils are guaranteed to be over one inch long (although some become ver>* questionable); a fairly high quantity of them even have points. Naturally, a fe^v of the good members of the class seemed somewhat shocked at sucli an unexpectedly **fabuIous" prize, but the point (Ed. note: Is that a pun, Mr. Secretary?) is that it does do the trick and in most cases the receivers use the STUB to fill in my questionnaire. So, %rith all apologies to the people vvho have recevied these pendls, but with many thanks to them for providing me with the news which this column gobbles up so easily, I continue on my merry class 
ROBERT J. LEANDER. '49 
Almost since his birtli into a printing business family 31 years ago. Bob Le­ander has been working in all phases of the business from jogging stock to running presses, from selling to the presidency. His advancement to Presi­dent of Chicago Show Printing Com­pany was recently announced by re­tiring President Russell J. Leander, who continues as a director of the firm. 
Since graduation Bob has worked his \vay through advertising and sales pro­motion with the Chicago point-of-sale concern. He moved into the sales de­partment covering accounts in Chicago^ Milwaukee. New York and Phila­delphia. For the past two years he has been Vice-President and General Manager. 
In addition to his work at Chicago Show, where he is the third President in the firm's 57-year historj'. Bob is a director of the Colonial Bank & Trust Co. of Chicago. President of the Chi­cago Rod and Gun Club and a director of the Point of Purcliase Advertising Institute. He is active in the Com­munity Chest and the . Northwest Manufacturing Association of Chicago. 
Bob is married and has three girls and a boy. 
reporting. When you finish tliis column, don*t just put it down and say, "I'll w*ait till I get my pencil before I write to AI.** 'What you should do is to write me and let me know what*s ne^^i•s to )*ou, help lighten my work, and give the rest of the class the news we need about you and your family. 
1957 CLASS SECRETARIES' CO.XFERENCE 
The good work of the Alumni .Association Office continues on a very constructive basis. The Class Secretaries* Conferences which they have been having cacit year is scheduled for the week-end of December 14 and 15 this year. Since I will represent our class at this meeting, I should appreciate receiving word from any of you ^vho have any strong fccHngs or suggestions concerning the .\LUMNUS and the class columns, reunions and reunion programs, class officers and duties, and most important of all, a program of intellec­tual relations. This last aspect may take many forms, such as an intellectual program which the University ivould initiate, in which the ^vliole class could participate—a retreat by class groups—or perhaps a refresher course of some sort to help guide our class members in local Catholic activities and leadership. So let's hear your ideas. I should like to go into this conference with constructive thoughts from '45 class members. 
NEWS FROM HERE AND THERE 
DAVE CHAMPION is the assistant to the presi­dent of the Cliampion Rivet Company of Cleveland, Ohio, and East Chicago, Indiana. He is Hring at I420I AVashinglon Blvd., University Heights, Cleveland 18, Ohio. 
PHIL MARTIN is the proud daddy of Mark Dennis, bom May 23, weighing G lbs. 9J4 oz. Mom Kay was reported in excellent health, so congrat­ulations to thb swell California couple. Tliey are at 4787 Lee Avenue, La Mesa, California. 

DR. ROBERT HUGHES of 41 Chaminadc Drive, St. Louis 24, Missouri, is having a most enjoyable * reunion with his family. If anyone should feel ill during this reunion, one thing they will not be missing will be a doctor. The reunion will consist of the families of DR. PAT HUGHES, '48, DR. HENRY HUGHES, '41, DR. TO.M HUGHES, '38, DR. JAMES HUGHES, '31, and of course, BOB HUGHES, '45. Bob writes that he went back to campus earlier this year but did not sec anyone he remembered. He now sees BILL GILLESPIE quite often. Bob has six children: Kathy, 8; Bob, 6; Ginnie, 5; Jean, SJ/^; Beth, 2; and Dick, 10 months old. 
GEORGE J. DESPOT writes from Slireveport that he is bus>' and well, happily married, president of the Columbia Minerals Corp. of Louisiana. (Ed. note: George is also president of Shrevcport N.D. Club—JC). He and his wife, Pearia, have a little girl three years old by the. name of Susan. George complains that he hasn't seen anyone from the class and I am the only one he has heard from in the past vcar. Evcrv two years or so, he swaps letters with ERNIE RAUSCHER, but that's all the . correspondence with '45 he does. Good luck from your old friend and class secretar>', George, on your * new venture with Columbia ^finerals. 
DID YOU KNO^V THAT 
Did you know Uiat RICHARD BODIE of 6M Downer place is now a surgeon . . . that he and his wife, Jane, have eight children: Kathleen, 9 Eileen, 8; Richard, 7,* Bob, 6; ^^ary, 5; Brian, 3; Beth, 18 months; and Creighton, 2 months ... . that DENNIS AYLWARD is now li\ing at 3710 Eastham Drive, Dearborn, Mich. . . . that THOMAS BRUNDAGE now lives at 201 Garden-view, San Antonio, Texas , . . that RICHARD LEITE holds the title of Senior Engineer at Ap­plied Rescarcli Inc. . . . that Richard is married and has a little boy named Mark Richard, age one . . , that his wife, Barbara, was very proud \vhen she teamed that her husband was awarded a Ph.D. 
(Aero) from the University of Michigan in February* '• last year . . . that the Leites live at 413 S. Revena / Blvd., .-Vnn Arbor. Michigan . . . that the District ^fanager of the Logan Co. in Illinois is no other than HENRY PAYNE of 128 N. Monroe, Hinsdale . . . that he is happily married to Eudora . . . that his children, Lan, 9, and Tom, 7, are their pride and joy . . . that he goes back for the football season ever>' year . . . that he attended U.N.D. nitjht where he saw BUD GOTTA, MARK CRO­NIN. JOHN MACK, JOHN LAVERY, and RUDY ANDERSON . . . that class president JAMES J. CLYNES, JR., is one of the busiest persons up Ithaca way . . . that if you need an Attorney, you can reach him at No. 1 Savings Bank BIdg. or 221 N. Albany Street, Ithaca, New York . . . that when he went to see the Oklahoma game in 1956, he saw HARRY RYAN . . . that Jim is still living the grand life of a bachelor . . . that AL­BERT CIZAUSKAS Is now living at 3408 Gilden Drive, Alexandria, Va. . -. that JOHN CLARY lives at 3 Marion Lane, Huntington, N. Y. . . . 
thac WILLIAM KLEM moved to 19126 Summers Drive, South Bend, Indiana . . . that PAUL W. HURD is happily married to Bctt>', and has two children: Mar^' Margaret, 2^ , and John Stephen, 1 month . . . that he is working for TWA as Afanager-Ovcrscas Taxes, and as such, he is in charge of all T\S'A tax obh'gations outside the U.S.A. for approximately 25 countries . . . that Paul went back to Notre Dame last year where he saw TONY E^VRLEY . . . that he Avent to U.N.D. night and saw ED O'CONNER "across the crowded room" but didn*t get a cliance to talk with him . . . that Paul has his home at 5219 W. 69th Ter­race, Prairie Village, Kansas . . . that JAMES HARRINGTON now lives at 315 Highland. Lo­sansport, Indiana . . . that JOHN LAVERY is now liWng at 1701 Grilly Court, Chicago 14, 111. . . . that CHARLIE LESLIE*s new home address is 2615 ^Vood, Tcxarkana, Texas . . . that ROBERT DERMONT and his wife, Joyce, have four lo%-eIy cliildrcn: Theresa, 11; Mar>- Ellen, 8; Robert, 5; and Joseph, 3 . . . that Robert is the ^fanager of Dermont*s Super Market . . . that his home address is Box 408, Martin, Ky. . . . that DR. BROCK LYNCH is living at 51 Bacon Street, AVincIicstcr, Mass., a long way from TERRY WILSON of 735 South Han--artl Blvd., Apt. 2, Los Angeles, California . . . that FREDERICK J. OOEBELER, JR., is now a Management Officer in the United States Army . . , that he is married, and he and his wife, Virginia, are very proud of their five children: Virginia, 10; Frederick J. Ill, 9; Thomas, 7; Gerard, 6; and Robert, 6 months old 
. . . that if you'd like to get in touch with Fred-crick, his address is Hq. U.S. Army ^^edicaI Train­ing Center, Sam Houston, Texas . . . that ALBERT 
* MICHELS lives at 371 NorthcHfT Drive, Rockv River 16, Ohio . . . that THONfx\S NOLAN is llnng in Chicago, Illinois, at 6456 N. Magnolia Ave. . . . that if you want to get in touch with ELMER F. GILLESPIE, youM have to write to 2301 USAF Hospital, Eglin AFB, Florida . . . that he is now a Major in the USAF (MC) . . . that Elmer and his wife, Louisence, arc \-ery happily married . . . that Elmer says he rarely has any contact with any Notre Dame men, but he did see JAMES C.-\SSIDY at a medical meeting about a year ago. 
LETTERS FROM DEP^VRTMENT 
From Pat Usina, wife of J. D. USINA: "I write this in J. D.*s absence—hc*s at present aboard the 
U.S.S. Everett F. Larson (DDR) operating in the Far East. Don't know jf he let you know we were blessed with a 7-lb. girl in ^^arch. I know he would like for you to know. 
"He missed the birth by one week—a disappoint­ment to us all. He returns in late August." From J. D. USINA: "Just the usual few IJnes 
» with some news of myself. Have been aboard the Larson for six months now as Operations Ofiiccr. We are in "AVestpac" and have seen a lot of new places—new to me since 1945 and 1950. 
"Tlierc's another N.D. man aboard, HAL WTL­LENBORG, class of *55. He's Supply Officer, so generally we take care of the Notre Dame spirit in this part of the Pacific 
"Bigger news still is of the arri\-al of Teresa 

. Ann on March 18 in Lakewood, Calif. Mother and daughter arc fine, but were six daN-s late, for wc departed March 12 from Long Beach on this cruise. Expect to see a six-month-old daughter in late August. Michael David and Joseph Timothy —3 and 2 years, respectively—are thriving and much pleased with a baby sister. 
"Always read the ALUMNUS and want to \mte 

friends so many letters. Promise to answer any ^ to me at 4447 Johanna Ave., Lakewood, Calif. k "Pat and I alwa>-s welcome N.D.*ers to look 
us up." From JAMES J. CLVNES, JR.: "I am enclosing the completed questionnaire that you requested concerning the Class of 1945. "Since graduating from the University, I have been back three times. I was there In 1954 at the Club Presidents' Convention. I ^*-as back in 1955 for my ten-year reunion, and I returned last fall to sec the Oklahoma game. I played golf last year with T. R. HERBERT of Auburn and we had a fine time. 
"Up here I do not run into many of the Class of 1945, however, PETE PESOLI of the Class of 1949 spent the summer here in Ithaca and we had many fine times. I miss the Notre Dame Club of New York and the many good times wc had together. 
"Unfortunately I will not be able to make the Army game trip because I am best man at a wedding in Hartford, Connecticut, on that same day. 
EDWARD J. DOM1.ING, '38 

Some classmates may not remember Ed because he was only around for a year, the year Dizzy and Daffy Dean won the AVorld Series in four games. During that period Ed was ahvays on the run. In trying to work his entire way through Notre Dame he lived off-campus, held down two jobs, one at the LaSalle Hotel and one in the Chemistry Librar)', and lost forty pounds doing so. Even though he didn't have time to get acquainted with and enjoy the campus relationships of many of his classmates, Ed recalls that this was the best year of his life. He says there's no other place where you can get so much, for so little, as you can at Notre Da^ie. 
Ed is a Corrective Action Represent­tative for Lockheed Aircraft in Bur­bank, California, and sells insurance as a hobby. He and his wife Lora Faye have five children. The only boy is in the army and tlie oldest girl is married. 
Ed has the happy distinction of being a snrandfatlier at 42. 
"Since returning to Ithaca I have been both City Prosecutor and I am tlie present Corporation Counsel. I ran for District Attorney last faU and was beaten on a county basis. 
''Looking forward to seeing you some time in the fall." 
Well, gang of *45, that^s all the neu-s ^vc have this time. Send in your news contribution for this column, and your $5.00 dues. S'long, Al. 
From the Alumni office: 
JOHN BURKE O'DONOGHUE has been ap­pointed Field Sales Manager of the Cleveland Pneumatic Tool Company. He joined the company as a trainee in 1953, was appointed Xfanager of Airframe Company Sales in 1954. During World War II John was an air force fighter pilot, and he served from 1W8 to 1953 as a special agent with the FBL 
194 6 J^*^ Tengc, Jr. 2025 West Six MUe Road Detroit 3, Afichigan 
194 7 Jack Miles 
3218 BenUcy Lane 
South Bend, Indiana 

This is only the second column since we took over this job a few months ago, and the response to our appeal for a dollar or two or more from some of the class who didn't attend the reunion has been staggering .. . it mtist be staggering badly, 'cause it hasn't even arrived yet! 
We don't expect any absentees to help defray expenses of the reunion, but the principal need for funds is for Requiem Masses for the repose of the souls of our classmates who ha\'e died and who ^vill die before 1962 rolls around. Please don't disappoint us; ^v•e*^c counting on you. And so are those men \%-ho will benefit from those ^fas5e5. 
For some of you ^vho didn't get back in June, there may have been no valid excuse, but two of our numbei^BROTHER IVAN DOLAN, C.S.C.. and FATHER FRANCIS L. McFARLAND, C.S.C. —offered ^It-edged alibis: They were» and are still, halfway around the world in Bandura, E. Pakistan. 
Herp are some excerpts from Brother I\-an*s letter, dated May 17: 
". . . Father Frank and I are planning to have a little two-man celebration from June 7-9, even if it is only to play the Victory Afarch on the phonograph each day. We're pretty far out in the jungle and swamps. 
"I came over here in Nov. of *47 and Father Frank came a few years later. He is the assistant at Little Flower Seminary, which is attached to Holy Cross High School, of which I am headmaster. 
"An idea has come into my head concerning the Class of '47j briefly it is this: 
"Wc had the worst floods in the history of Bengal a couple of years ago during the monsoon seasons of '54 and *55. We were flooded for two months each year; had to dose the school (1,100 kids from the nearby villages) for the duration; had more fish and snakes in the classrooms' than students. Wt h the high water, the white ants— which usually stay around ground level—took to the bamboo walls and ivoodcn beams ot the school buildings. They had a great feast and left my six school buildings in bad shape. 
"I've been begging and begging from friends in the States, and last year raised enough money to replace one of the buildings—the worst one. I was hoping that I could replace one building each year over a six-year period, but the buildings are in such bad shape that I'll have to work faster than that or else they arc all going to ca\-e in at the same time and we will be back under the trees for classes just where ^ve were 50 years ago. 
"Do >'ou think the members of the class of '47 would be interested in helping mc out? I know they arc always getting begging letters from this place and that, asking for money, but I'm sure they haven't been approached by one of their own classmates. 
"I need between 8' and 10 thousand dollars; it's a lot ot money, but even if I get only a part of it this year I can at least start the work. I've put in my 10 years since '47 over here in Bengal. And this being the 10th reunion, do you suppose the members of the class could each throw in a buck for eadi of those 10 years? If they could, why, it would be their mission then and not mine. It would be something we could all be proud of— the class of *47 rebuilds Holy Cross High School in the far-off Bengal Missions." 
Here's a challenge to us from a servant of God w*ho is storing up graces . . . but graces don't rebuild schools. If any of you want to extend helping hands across the seas to Brother Ivan, I'll be glad to forward your offerings. 
RANDOM JOTTINGS: DR. W. B. (W.ALT) LABERGE, just 32 years old, is in charge of the development of the Navy's air-to-air SIDE^VINDER guided missile in his capacity as head of the Mis* siles Development di\-ision at the Naval Ordnance Test Station at China Lake, Calif. Awarded a Ph.D. from Notre Dame in 1950 after having earned his B.S. in Physics in '47, ^Valt began work with the newly-conceived SIDE^VINDER program that same year. He and his wife—the former 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November^ 1957 57 
Patricia Sammoti, a St. 7^Iar\''s alumna—liavc two boys and a girl, Tlii-y now live at 110 Esconyo Way in Mcnlo Park, Calif. 
PHIL DELINCKE, doing a fine Job in fighting back from titc effects of a nasty siege of polto^ iccfnily was promoted to development engineer in the Research and Development department of the concern for whicli lie works. As a sideline, he runs a magazine subscription agency at his home. 
Currently serving as chairman of the Business Administration dinsion at St. Edward's University, .Austin, Texas, BROTHER LaSALLE ^VOELFEL, CS-C. garnered his Ph.D. in that field at the June commencement of the University <>f Texas. His major covered the areas of accounting, finance, and marketing, and his minor was in economics. 
Another Ph.D. as of June is THURMAN L. COSS, who won the degree from Drew University in Madison, .\. J. And JOHN DILLON just got an LL.B. from Xc%v York University, 
A feu- cards are at hand: One is fn»m FATHER HAROLD G. ZINK, C.S.C.. who reports a change of residence to St. Mar\*s Cathedral. 209 E. lOth St. in .\uslin, Texas, and two have been delivered to Hoosierland from the wandering barrister. ELMER ".MOOSE" ^L\TTHE^VS, who attended the recent .-V-B.-A. conclave in London. He assures me he attended everj' session, though the cards were from Dublin and Paris! 
The Alumni Office has sent a li.'^t of new ad­dresses for the following: DR. JOHN A. ARa\DI; TLMOTH\* E. BABB; JAMES P. BAILEV; LT. \\1LLIAM BARRY; PETER .M. BELMONT, JR.; HENRY A. DEL.\CE.\SERIE; WILLLANf F. FL.\­HERT\*. JR.; JOHN T. FORD, JR.; DR. WIL­LIAM H. GARNER, JR.; GEORGE T. GMIT­TER; ^\^LL1A.\1 J. GUALDERON; ROBERT E. HARRINGTON; LT. J.\MES D. HEREFORD; MARTIN J. LAUGHLIN; JOHN M. NfcCXBE; JOSEPH M. McNAMARA; WILLIAM C. MA­LONE; RAY.MOND D. PEETS; WILLIAM A. PFISTER; CHARLES A. ROTH; HAROLD R. SOLOMON; DENNIS J. STARK; GEORGE H. W*E!SS, and LAWRE.VCE J. WINTER. .Anyone who wants to be brought up to date on these and others. let him drop a line this way. 

As a matter of fact, you needn't he in quest of information to scratcli a line or two; your hard­working and unpaid secretary thrives on news items of all descriptions ancnt the men of ^7, whether they be broadcast first- or second-hand. 
Keep in mind: Your secretary frets lest mail he gets! 
1948 German A. Zitt 635 Bdmont Park, No-Dayton, Ohio 

DRS. RICHARD L. MYERS and D.ANIEL W. SHEA have recently begun a joint medical practice in Green Bay, Wisconsin, specializing in pediatrics. Both previously trained at the Mayo Clinic in Roclicsler, Minn., receiving Masters degrees in Pediatrics from the Universily of Minnesota. Tlie Myers now have four children, the Sheas five. 
GEORGE T. .MOBILLE has been made a partner in the Washington. D. C , firm of Cusliman, Darby Sc Cushman. George will specialize in the fields of patents, trademarks, copyrights and anti-trust litigation. 
DR. TO.M DOOLEY passed through the U. S. recently on his way to the clinic of Dr. Albert Scliwcitzer in French Equatorial .Africa. Tom is studying llie famous missionarv-'s medical practices for use in his "little hospital on stilts" in Laos. 
HAL TEHAN has Just been named vice-president for administration of the Haggar Company in Dallas, Texas. 
1949 J°^ Walker 
" ^ 826 Wing Street 
Elgin, minob 

Got the following letter from EVANS GER^VRD OLUXLL, JR., now in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, with Dominion Dairies, Ltd.: 
"Wc had a nice visit from Jim Armstrong re­cenily and your name came up in the conversation. I immediately wondered if it was the same JOHN­NY W.-VLKER who so ably edited and wrote while at N.D., and who helped mc in my young jour­nalistic attempts. 
"Here in Canada we recently formed the first University of Notre Dame Club of Canada. I have the privilege of being Director of Public Relations for the Club as well as a Director and Charter Member. 
*'Jim \isitcd us to present us with the Charter and necessary papers and to addrrss one of our dinner meetings. 
"So much water has passed under the dam since 1949. There was a stint for mc on a few news­papers; the old Brooklyn Eagle, Miami Daily News, and thence Esquire Magazine. 
•*Wc moved to Cincinnati. Ohio, a few years ago vvherc I was associated with the Kroger Com­pany and Crosley-Bcndix, Divisions of AVCO. 
"Over two years ago I received my present ap­pointment and we like Canada veiy much. 
**Thc Olwells now number four diildrcn, two boys and two girls, so we arc in the thick of the battle. 

"I've had some nice contacts with some people vou mav recall: MIKE WEINBERG, CON KING­REY, BOB HENEAULT, JACK L/\NGLOIS, among others who were with vou and me from 1945 to 1949. 
"JACK LANGLOIS is with the Public Relations Department, Dul'ont Company of Canada Limited, also here in Montreal. 
"BOB HENEr\ULT is with the Industrial Rela­tions Department, Steel Company of Canada Lim­ited, also here in Montreal. 
•*If you arc further interested in the activities of some of the men who were in the Class of M9, who I have met up with, I'd be happy to drop you the information. However, you probably have Iiad more contact than T. 
'•ft has been nice to see Jim .Armstrong and to get something started for N.D. here in Canada. Hope you find time to drop mc a line." 
Two '49'ers were in on the New York University commencement this vcar. JOHN J. EARLY, For­est Hills. N. Y.. got an LL.B.. and JOHN M. McGUIRE, Brooklyn, got an M.B.A. 
TIic pravcrs of his classmates are requested for 

J. .MURRAY \nE.\LAN, 195G president of the Baltimore Club and a sports staffer of the Balti­more Evening Sun, who was in a tragic automobile accident in April. Murray's new car was totally dcmolished, and he wound up in the hospital with multiple fractures and a long coma. He is now-fighting for recoverj' in Fort Howard Veterans* hospital. 
DR. ALBERT W. BURGSTAHLER became an assistant professor of chemlstrj' at the Universily of Kansas. Lawrence. Kansas, Sept. 1. He was previously a research assistant and instructor there. .After graduating magna cum laude at Notre Dame Dr. Burgstahler took an .A.M. and Ph.D. at Har­vard and held a National Science Foundation post­doctoral fellowship at the University of London. He was an instructor at Notre Dame and a re­search associate at the University of Wisconsin. His field is organic chemistrw 
RICHARD S. SEY.MOUR has been appointed to the faculty of the School of Business Adminis­tration of Duquesne University as an assistant pro­fessor in Commerce. He taught at Turner Hitih scliool in Kansas and was a gradHatc assistant at Indiana Universitv while workini; on a doctorate. 
DR. WILLIAM I. STRYKER Is finishing a txvo­year term of duly in the na\-y as a lieutenant in the medical corps. Married in 1953. he now has two daiiiihters. age 3]/^ and 1 year. He is return­ing to Duke Univi-rsity Medical School to complete a ihree-vear residency in psychiatry. His address will be Durham V. A. Hospital. Durham. North Carolina. 
aAPT. C. R. WAGNER has moved from Hights­town. N. Y.. to 8 Eliot Road. Bedford, ^tass. Tlie .Air Force has sent him to Harvard for the next two vears. He and his wife now have four children. Charl'*s R. H. Barbara Ruth, ^^a^^• Jennifer and William George. 9. 7. 214 and I'/s years rcfpcc­tivelv. 
Two new LL.B.'s: JOHN CAEMMERER from S'. Joiin's Un-vcrMty .-.nd EDWARD H. LOMBER from Syracuse Universitv. 
1 950 ^chard F. Hahn ^^^^ 6930 North OdeU Chicago 31, niinois 
JOHN PALMER has been appointed staff assist­ant in the credit department of the Central Soya Co., where he has been manager of the feeder finance department. 
HAROLD V. AN*THONY has moved to Denver. 
BOB LALLY, in Cleveland, reports on DON DERIVAUX, who wxs retreat master for an N.D. group at Gethscmane. Kentucky: *'Don and I roomed together for two years at Notre Dame. A finer product of Notre Dame I have yet to meet. 

*'Don. who was ordained to the priesthood In September, 1954, and who has taken the name of Francis of Assisi, left Notre Dame in the late summer of 1949 after baring been so favorably im­pressed by the monastery during the previous Easter retreat. 
"Pater Francis was originally from VIcksburg, Mississippi, 3030 Drmnmond Street, where his par­ents still reside. He has a brother Jerry who was graduated from Notre Dame in the class of 1952. 
"I had the pleasure of attending his ordination, which was unique In that he was the only one ordained at the time, and I have never seen one so completely happy and devoted to his vocation as he." 
RICHARD F. GOR.MAN has been pnnnoted to advertising manager of Admiral Corporation. He was previously district sales manager for Studebaker Corporation. Dick lives in Arlington Heights, III. 
THO.M.AS R. SHERIDAN has received the degree of Master of Electrical Engineering at the Poly­technic Institute of Brooklyn. 
LAWRENCE E. LEROY of Mission, Kansas, recently passed the certified public accountant ex­amination in Kansas. 
RAY.MOND T. THROCKMORTON is with Geologic .-Vssociates, Nashville. Tenn. 
|OC | Robert J. Klingenbcrgcr 
•^'^ ' 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. ^Vaync, Indiana 

JOHN CORCORAN and his wife Mar^- Ann announced the birth of Nancy .Ann on June 19. Tills makes a total of three girls and one boy. Congratulations, John and Mary .Ann. and thanks for the announcement. Wliy don't all of you fel­lows send me a birth announcement when your * children arrive? 
AfATTY 0*DONNELL's mother wrote that ^fatt Is a First Lieutenant in Army J.A.G. and sta­tioned at Fort Polk. La. .Also, that he married Margaret P. Delaney of Syracuse. N. Y., on No­vember 14. 1955, and had a daughter, Patricia Mary on November 10, 195S. Tliank you for the note, Mrs. O'Donnell. I imagine the «Ic Irishman is too tied up with Law and the deep South to write. 
JIM SHEERIN, 5629 Klngsley Dr., Indianapolis, Ind.. writes that they have three cliildren now, , ^^ary Margaret, born on Januar>' 8. 1956. James Patrick, now 5 years old, and John Bennett. 2 years. Jim Is a C.P.A. and still with Ernst and Ernst. Congratulations on the familv and the C.P.A.. Jim. 
DAVE 0'LE,ARY, c/o Foley Clothing Co.. Man­son. Iowa, writes that he had two girls up until ^^ay 14th, then twin sons Matt and Mark and all arc In good health. Congratulations. Dave, and send a picture when you're able. Dave also writes, "In reading the column, I noticed that it doesn't ' include as many names as it used to. It occurred to mc if all the boys were as lax as myself when it comes to writing, there would be no column." Well said. Dave, and T hope you other fellows aren't waiting *til you have twins to write. 
Dave also writes that CLIFF COLLINS flew Into Manson from Offut AFB for a Sunday visit not too long ago, and that he saw JI\[ McGUIRE In June. Jim Is still in Kolstein. Iowa, auctioneer-•)>\ Ing with his father and has two girls. / ' 
Here's a 5tor\- nf a Cliicago bov moving West . . . 

GEORGE FO.STER, I0G2I N.E. 14th St.. Belle­vue. Washington, writes that after being released from the Nav>- In June. '54. he started training irilh the F.B.i. and met BOB NEMES In D.ci. In March of *55. he was sent to the Oklahoma ^ office and 14 months later was sent to the Seattle ofiicc. George recently bought a home in Bellcvuc and the family, Including wife. Rita, children Susan Marv". vi^c 3. and Thomas John, age 7 months, moved in last June. Tlianks for the note George and In answer to others of our class out there—r believe GERRY KE/VRNS is living some place around, but can't tell you where. 
Sally and HANK MADDEN. 1014 Engleuood, Chattanooga, Tenn., announced the birth of ^fark Hanlcy on .April I. Tliat gives Hank two girls and one boy. Tlianks for the note. Sally, and Margaret and I send our best wishes. i 
BILL COONEY, who writes from Korea but will 

Weslinghousc Electric Corporation president and chairman Gwilym A. Price, left, offers his congratulations to J. J. Taylor during presentation ceremonies at Bettis Plant. Mr. Taylor is the recipient of the Weslinghousc Order of Merit—highest honor conferred on Westinghouse employees. 
be ri'assJgiied to 6th Army, J.A.G. Section at the Presidio in San Francisco in September of this year, says that his Korean tour is about up, lie is 
- still single, and will most probably return to D. C. 
i after his release in May of '58. Bill, %ve're going to miss you in Philly this year for the game and ifargaret ts upset because you didn't say Iiello to hrr in the note. 
IG SOISSOX writes that after graduation he started to work for his master's at the Univ. of Pennsylvania but cnli&tcd in the Xaw prior to completing bis work. After SJA years seeing the ^fcditer^anean and the Caribbean he joined Union Carbide as an accountant. In Januar>'. '5G, he 
' afHliated with their International Division location of National Carbon Co. (India) Ltd. and is now an assistant to the treasurer in Calcutta and en­joying it vcr>" niucli. He expects six months leave in the summer of '59. Ig's address is: National Carijon Co. (India) Ltd., P.O. Box 2170, Calcutta. 1, India. 
\V.\LT TURNER writes that he recently con­verted his three conununity newspapers in Chicago t from pIioto-oITsct tabloids to newsmagazines with ^ color covers, enamel stock and feature articles. Walt, the publisher of Turner Publications, 8110 South Racine Ave., Chicago 20. III., pubh'shcs the Highland Times, Brainerd Times and Aubiirn Park Times. AValt also writes that THO.\L\S KELLEGHAN recently passed the Illinois Bar and is presently with the U. S. F. & G. Insurance Co. as an adjuster in Wheaton. III. .-Vlso. while In 
D. C. recently, he saw JOE RUSSO'who received his laiv degree from Georgetown and for the last five years has been on the staff of Senator Hen­nings (D-Mo.). 
D.AN BRENNAN received his master's in June from the South Dakota School of Mines. 
LEO CORBO received his Doctor of Philosophy in MicrobioIog\' and Public Health from Michigan State University in June. 
BILL FECHNER received his master of business administration In June from the University of Denver. 
TOM LOGAN, 2009 Curdes, Fort Wayne. Ind., 
is marr>'ing Carol Cuslck In Connorsvilte, Ind., on September 14. 
TOM a\RROLL Is still In Racine. Wisconsin, and heading up the Sales Department for Dumorc Company. 
TO.M SHEEHtVN of South Bend is marr>ing a local girl in the near future. 
That's all the news for now and I sure would appreciate hearing from some of you lost souls, just a postcard and. If nothing else, put me on your Christmas list and attach a mite to it. 
From the Alumni office: ROBERT .M. .AULD recently became a Bachelor of Laws at St. John's University. DANIEL J. BRENN.\N is a Ph.D. in Billings, Montana, with Shell Oil. He got a second daugh­ter. Maura Eileen, this year. WILLI.VM J. CUSH.MAN, a native of Rochester, has joined Corning Glass Works as a salesman in the Technical Products Division. GEORGE J. JANSEN Is now employed by the Battelle ^ft•mo^iaI Institute In Columbus. Ohio. P.ATRICK J. KLVNEY and JOH.V A. -XfAHER have both received Master of .\rts degrees from New York University. ^^'ILBERT ODE.\I is still with the California Company In New Orleans. D.-WID D. SMITH is a na\y lieutenant teaching geology at Dartmouth. 
|OCO Harry L. Buch 
• '^ ^ 986 National Road AVheeling, West Virginia 
From the Alumni office: CHARLES T. FAHV has been ordained a priest of the Benedictine Order. He is the son of Judge and Mrs. Charles Faby. Judge Faliy, a member of the Notre Dame Class of 1914, is a member of the United State5 Court of Appeals and a former Solicitor General of the United Slates. He is active in the St. Xlncciit He Paul Society and other 
Notre Dame 

Catholic actixitics In Washington. After gradua­tion from Notre Dame, magna cum laude. Father Faliy entered the Benedictines at St. Anselm's Priory in Washington. He has been studying for the past two years at Collegio Sant' Ansclmo In Rome. 
GERALD L. HxVNLEY has received the degree of Master of Electrical Engineering at the Poly­technic Institute of Brooklyn. 
CHARLES WILLIAM .\nSNER has received a Ph.D. in physics at Princeton University. 
TED PELLER, who recently acquired a son, is nou' employed by Minnesota Mining & Manu­facturing in St. Paul as a statistician. 
JOSEPH T. CONLON, Jr., has been awarded a Bachelor of Laws degree at Har\-ard Univcrsltv. while ROBERT RAYMOND JAY received a Mas­ter of Business Administration degree from the same university, with distinction. 
KARL V. HOOVER has been promoted to head of the industrial minerals section. Ohio Geo­logical Sur\'ey. 
LOUIS E. RIEG expects to receive his Ph.D. from the University of Pittsburgh in February. He married Miss Christine Barnes December 29. 
JOHN DAVID ENGELS and WILLLVM DAR­REL KRAMER received ^LFu\. and MA., degrees, respectively, from the State University of Iowa In Augmt. 
Janet Lee Hoke, four-year-old daughter of Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. HOKE, .New Castle, Ind.. died on August 28. She had been ill seven months with leukemia. She is also sur\*ived bv three sisters. Susan. Linda and Valerie. REV. THOMAS T. McAVOY, C.S.C.. of Notre Dame, and REV. BERNARD L. McAVOY, C.S.C-, of Washington, 
D. C„ are great uncles. 
Thomas W. Reedy 

1953 
337 Wagner Road Northficld, lUinois 

BILL UNGER called while in town recently for the Furniture Show to report his marriage to a Minneapolis girl August 3. BUI says he is very busy in the family furniture firm and reports that JIM NOONAN is now the director of a county juvenile home of about 30 bo>-s in Minnesota. Jim is married with one child and expecting another. 
PAUL BALLING (PFC. USA) brings us up to date with the following: "After graduation I worked for my father 214 years in the construction business at which time I was drafted. After basic I went to San Francisco to a Surveying company. Five months later I was shipped overseas to Africa where we are sur\'c>-ing the desert of Libya for the Corps of Engineers. 
(And some guys think THEY got the bum deal!) Paul says he is quite single without any immediate prospects of marriage. 
Received a ver>* Interesting letter from JACK FINK who set the column straight on his present status—that of Editor of the Family Digest and {\s5ociatc Editor of Our Sunday Visitor. His duties consist of handling the complete editorial operations of the Family Digest and doing the makeup for the National Edition of Our Sunday Visitor. Jack and Marie (Waldron) ^verc married in May, 1955, and have a l4-month-old daughter, Regina Marie— named incidentally in honor of the first feast of the Qucenship of Marj'—their marriage date—and arc expecting another baby due about mld-Septemher. Jack reports that JOHN CORRIGAN and his wife, who were married in June, 1953, • had their second child bom *'either the latter part of April or the first part of ^fay, I'm not sure which. 
"BILL MOTZEL and Judy also have two chil­dren—Laura and Kathy. Bill is li\-ing in St. Louis and working part time for MacDonald Aircraft while hc*s studying for an M.S. degree in En^neer­ing at St. Louis University. He was a philosophy major at N.D., but the Air Force decided to teach him electricity at Keeslcr AFB. He was an In­structor down there and beginning in September he'll be teaching at St. Louts U. while studying for his degree. 
"JOHN ELSON is now with the Detroit Bureau of Time Magazine. 
Alumnus^ October-November, 2957 59 
"TOM FIELD is now at Oxford University studying law. I learned this from N.D.'s Father Put2 during one of his recent visits to Our Sun­day Visitor." 
Jack concludes. "By the way, there's no law against reporting what you're doing now." 
Thanks for the inntation, Jack, I'll take you up on it. Dcde and I have been married 3!4 years and live w-ith our two children, Tom, age 2'/s, and Kathleen, age one, about 10 miles north of Chicago. I am manager of a Chicago air con­ditioning and refrigeration ser\"icing and contact­ing business. I still can't get over the fact—and I'm sure I'm not alone in this—that come June we'll have been out of X.D. five years already. 
^\'hich quite naturally leads into a planted plug for our Five-Ycar Reunion. We're expecting evcr>'­onc back for our first reunion get-together. From far and near—we want to sec a real turnout. Only two of us have valid excuses—PAUL BALLIXG sur\-cying the Libyan desert with the Army and LES HALSEMA exploring the Antarctic with the Xa\y—the rest we'll expect. At present wc have no details as to dales and the program but ^rill give full details as soon as possible. So keep the deck clear for the Big Blast and we have it on very good authority that permission has been asked and secured from Father Leahy for I a.m. sign ins! 
LARRY SULLrVAN writes a lontr and interest­ing letter from the University of Michigan Med ScJiool where he is now studj-ing for his Ph.D. in ph^-siolog\% ha\-ing obtained his M.S. in June, 1956. Larry writes that BRIAN KELLY is studying Law at the U. of Michigan Law school and that DICK O'CONNELL is a freshman medical student at Michigan. Larty reports that AL NfARKS, DAN COLLINS. JOHN MADDEN, JIM PATTERSON, MIKE HUSSEY and some others all graduate from Loyola Medical school in Chicago this June. HARPO who is married and has a daughter, will intern next vear at the Counts* Hospital in New* York City. JERRY MATORI is attending Medical school somewhere in Italy, while JOHN MASON and BOB STEJSKAL graduated last June from Indiana and Creighton 'Med schools respectively.*' 
Larr>' sa\-s he and his wife. Florence, have a son. Paul, bom in June. 1956. He sends his address and promises a speedy answer to any letter received: Ph>-5lo!m:>- Department. Medical School, University of Michigan, .Ann Arbor. Mich. 
Our deepest sympathy to DAN J.AMES who recently lost his mother and to BILL SANTORO xvhose father died in August. 
JACK CO\'NE brought us up with his high­lights since graduating from N.D. law school in 1955. He passed the Ohio bar and practiced two years In a Cleveland law firm until Feb. I when the Army *'grabbed me for six months." Jack has two children now. boy and a girl, and is just completing the Anti-.\Ircraft Artillery basic offi­cer's course at Fort Bliss. AVIth him at Fort Bliss arc RAY HOFF.MAN, GEORGE SUNKEL, JiNf HIGGINS. GEORGE ZIMMERALAN and D.W'E GR.ANGER. 
"DICK MILLER is now at Camp Gordon, Ga., in the Militar>* Policy- officer course and is due home In October. Dick has two children also. 
"Last heard of HARRY SNYDER, by phone, last Christmas. He ^*'as practicing Law in Saratoga Springs, New York, where he is married with one child. 
"JOHN HOUCK was due home from Korea where he served in the Army as a Lieutenant. John Is married to Mar\' Dooley, daughter of the late Mr. Dooley of the N.D. placement staff, and they have a little boy. Heard that John %vill In­struct at N.D. this coming fall. 
"DAVE McBRlDE is now in Chicago practicing law with a top notch Chicago firm, and is married to Rita O'Lcary and has one child." 
Thanks, Jack, for all the above. Graduating from the Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia this past June were MARTY BRENNAN and STEVE KENDRA. ED DUGGAN writes: " I was reading the latest issue of the ALUMNUS magazine and it sud­denly da^vTied oa me that I could pass along some info to you on some of the guys I have seen recently." (This is the kind of sudden realization that keeps the column going and upon which we depend completely. I hope this strikes home and the columa is flooded \nth letters like this.) 
"JACK BARRY is married and has a little boy. He's working with an investment firm in New York and recently moved into a new home on the Jersey Shore. 
"TOM O'CONNELL is taking the big step September 28. He's doing ver>- well with IBM as a salesman In New York. 
"BOB SEBOLD just had his first, a girl. Bob is working with Republic Ariatlon in Long Island. 
"I ran into EDDIE ROBERTS in New York a few months ago and at that time he was working for BrouTi and Bleauvclt. 
"TOM KRUG is an IBM salesman in Patterson, New Jersey. 
"Saw BUZZ WAGNER in Pittsburgh last week­end. He's married and has a 'child. He's with Koppers Coke in the Advertising Department. I also saw PAUL ABT ^vho was at N.D. for t^vo years." 
Ed finishes by sa\-ing that he hopes to see a lot of the guvs from '53 at the N.D.-Army game in Pliilly this fall. 
BILL AHERN was married August 31 to Florence Bianchi in Patchoque, New York. Congratula­tions, Bill. 
JOHN MacINNES writes that after graduation from N.D. he was employed by a fabric company and shortly thereafter joined the Army. He spent his whole tour at Fort Rilej-, Kansas, where he was Courts and Boards clerk. After the Army, John attended the University of Minnesota and did additional work in the field of Social Studies Education. Upon completion of this work, he attended the National Training School for Pro­fessional Leaders of Scouting at Mendham, New Jersey, and from there was appointed to the post of District Boy Scout executive in the Marquette­.Mger County (Midiigan) area. 
John u-rites: "In closing I urge you to -talk about the Foundation's campaign for the new Moreau Seminarx-. My brother. George, *56, spent four years at Moreau and from visiting him over the years, I know the urgent need for a new building. It would be disastrous. I believe, if we who have benefited so greatly from the priests who have studied at ^foreau did not meet the future needs of the Holy Cross Fathers." 
Well spoken, John. That winds it up. We'll be looking forward to receiving your letters and cards about yourselves and the classmates you run into. 
Incidentally, Jim Armstrong, 'Alumni Secretarv*, just sent a note to say that the Class of *53 Reunion dates are set: It's June 6, 7 and 8. 
From the Alumni office: DR. BERNARD C. LA^VES has been appointed j\ssociatc Senior Chemist in the Research Division of Mead Johnson & Company. His previous prac­tical scientific experience \\*as gained as a research chemise for the Film Di\ision of Olln Mathleson Chemical Corporation In New Haven, Conn., in 1954. Dr. I^wcs is a native of New Britain, Conn. He Is married and has a daughter, Jocclyn Ann, I. The family lives at 1018 MacAnhur Circle in Evansville. P.AUL C. RAYMOND is considering tvork on a doctor's degree—perhaps at the University of Cali­fornia—while GEORGE C. THOMAS plans to ga for his master's. DAVID ^V. STE.-\RNS was ac­cepted at Rice Institute to work towards his Ph.D., and JOHN F. SULIK \%III get an M.S. from Ari­zona and go to work for the Texas Company. BOB STRALEY had a second child, Donna ifarie, in December. He is in the New Orleans area with Shell. RICHARD F. ADLER just took an LL.B., while GEORGE B. BAILEY received an ^^w\.» both at New York University. RICHARD KAHMAN PERRY received the de­gree of Master of Business Administration at Har\-ard. 
I OCd George A. Fflaum, Jr. 
• 'W-T ^262 Catalpa Drive No. 2 Dayton 5, Ohio 
I'm more than a little late this time In my deadline race with our good editors. I concede defeat to them and only hope that they hold the presses until I get this copy in form. I'm loaded with material for a change. It amazes me the number of replies one gets to his column merely by heading it with a picture of his own baby! If this magazine didn't come out four times a year, I might be able to keep the replies rolling In like this. Moving right into the mail I uncover a letter from GEORGE DOLAK which reads: "DICK HONINGFORD and T have managed to keep in touch since June 6, 1954. I just received an an­nouncement from liim to the effect that he is now the father of an eight-pound baby boy by the name of Ken. Dick is still stationed in France with the Air Force. He is due to get out In the not too far future. The last I heard of JOE D'ANTONI is that he is very happily settled as a home owner 

FORT WA\'NE, INDIANA—Joe Doyle, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune, and John Jordan, Notre Dame basketball coach, were among the guest speakers ' and participants attending the Fort Wayne Club's golf festival this year. 
ROCKFORD—^The scholarship committee of the Notre Dame Club of Rockford includes, left to right, Thomas A. Keegan, Joseph W. Borges, chairman, William AIcDonald and John W. Hitchcox. Missing from the picture is John J. McKinstra. 
in Xatclicz, Mississippi^ and is working for Gulf Oil. As for myself, I have been more than ver>' busy in the lost several months. I started my ter­minal leave from the Army on June 1, got married in Minneapolis on June 8, took a two-week honey­moon !n New York and Miami Beach, was separated from the Army on July 6 at Fort Sheridan, HI., and got a job at \\*cstem Electric Company's Haw­thorne Works in Chicago on July 9, I am embarking on a 16-month staff management training program there. Ever>-lhing is now honky-dorry except that we are having a tough time finding an apartment. Until then, I can always be readied by writing to 9645 S. California Ave., Evergreen Park 42, Illinois. 
Lt. (j.g.) BILL McCLURE reporu in from 
Pcttaquamscutt Lake Shores, Saunderstown, R. I., 
with the following: "Just a short note from here in 
the Quonset Point area to let you know all is 
going fine and that I will soon be Joining you in 
the civilian ranks. Since this latest cut in obligated 
service for Rcscr\e Officers came into effect, my 
release date moved up to November 9; ho^vcver, I 
plan to be a tnie patriot and stay around until 
my original RAD of December 9. See TOM 
LINDSEY quite often as he is in VS-39 here at 
Quonset. He has found a home in the Na\y and 
plans to make it a career. Tom and f are the 
only representatives of the class of '54 stationed 
here—most of our prc-flight class went to the 
West Coast. I saw JOHN O'HARA in Key \Vest 
this past April; our squadron (VS-32) was there 
for a month of training and John popped In on a cross-country from Pensacola. John was looking great and had decided to get out of the Navy and work for a living too. Thank you, George, for offering—and asking our class to offer—prayers for L/VRRY ASH; Larr>* and I were in the same squadron when he was killed in the crash. I mar­ried Larry's sister, Lucille, on December 29 of last year and wc all are so appreciative of the many sincere prayers said for Larry. On the happier side . . . Lucy and I are expecting our first little one in Fcbruarv' - . . the first member of the N.D. class of *80. How about some help on a couple of addresses? Namely, P.AUL ROH.MAN and JACK RIVA. (Ed. Note: According to Alumni Office records, Paul is at 3255 Hollow Oak Drive, Grand Rapids. Mich., and Jack Is at 410 East 89th St., New York 28, N. Y.—J.C). My letter writing is on the poor side and I managed to lose contact with both of them." 
Patti and DA\'E MEAGHER sent along congrat­ulations on our recent arrt\'al and predict one in their family around the first of November. They 
report all is well at 23 Wilson Avenue in St. Cloud, Minn. LARRY ELLIS reports the same from 2512 Creek Ridge Drive, Pittsburgh 35, Pa. Larry will receive a degree from the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine next June. JOHN SHEEDY will graduate with him. Larry reports a beautiful daughter two years old and another family member on tap in December. 
The one and only TONY TRIGIANI, presently residing at 417 Namahana St., Apt. 6, in Hono­lulu, Hawaii, sends the following message, "Finally I get to wTite to you and tell you what goes on with the 'Trig.* This project has been pending nigh onto four years, but for some reason we never got to it. At the present, my wife and I (the former Ida Bonicelll), are in Hawaii stationed with the Army in the world famous Schoficid Bar­racks. Tliey finally caught up to me; however, we should be leanng for the mainland in December or January. Duty here is great for me and every­thing is Ideal. ^Vc are living in Waiklkl and get to see many of the boys from N.D. JOE BOVIN lives about 15 blocks from us. He Is t^ith the Air Force. Occasionally wc run into PAT O'DON­NELL, *55, and a few others. DAN M/\NION was here and should be back on the mainland by this time. Before wc came Into the scr\-ice, I worked with a securities Investment firm in Allen­town, Pa. Hope to get back to it and sundry other enterprises in the early part of '58." 
A short note from JOHN FOIRIER from the Ph>-sics Dept. in Stanford, Calif., reveals that he is finishing research and will receive his Ph.D. in Physics this coming year. Uncle Sam has been treating him to schooling on a National Science Fellowship. John asks for anv news from Rt\Y ROSEDALE. 
From 4118a McPherson Avenue, St. Loms, Mis­souri, BOB MILLER sent a lengthy letter which I repeat in full: "Got the latest Issue of the ALUM­NUS Saturday and decided to blow the dust off of the typewTlter and see If it still works. May as well get the local news out of the way first. I've been down here since last September working as a civilian with the Army Engineers. Before that I spent 13 months with the same organization in Chicago. Will finish up the training program this month. Saw JIM \\TNG in Chi-town. He graduated from Loyola in June and is working for Automatic Electric Company. His address Is 414 .•\shland, E%'an5ton, III. CAS BRANDYS (732 
S. Loomls St., Chicago 7, 111.), is running a sur­vey party for the Illinois Division of Highways. 
Notre Dame 

Cos got married last September and expects to be feeding one more month in October. JOHN GLASGOW (6186 Penhing Ave., St. Louis. Mo.), is working for McDonndl Aircraft. I saw PAUI. 'KILLER' SCHWEICKERT (227 Holmes Dr., Chillicotti, HI.), about three weeks ago. He was married in December of '55 and is now the proud papa of a five-month-old daughter. Paul was work­ing for the Peoria office of the Array Engineers. His brother, Tom, has been working here in St. Louis since January for McDonnell Aworaft. Had a letter a couple of months ago from FERNANDO DE' ROMANA (Box 98, Arequipa, Peru), who is working on his father's plantation. The last address that I have for BILL HARTNAGEL is I053J4 Admiral PL, Elmlra, N. Y. He was with the Penn. RR. DAVE BICKEL is at Apt. I-A, lUvervIew Manor, Harrisburg, Pa. BILL TILL is due to get out of the Navy about now. He has been enjoying the beauty of Japan. Home address --Box 321, Broughton, Fa. VIC ROBLEZ is living at 293W, 1200 N, Bountiful, Utah. DICK LEONG, 2438 Fauoa Road, Honoli^u, Haw^ , is worlusg as an assistant project engineer for Belt, Collins i Associates. In case some of the boys don't keep tip with the Hawaii Club of NJ)., Dick is treasurer of the club. PETE SCHWENK is stationed at Chanute AFB, Rantoul, HI. TONY MANDOUNl is a C.P.A. In Chicago. Would like to hear from some of the boys. We have a letter going from one to the other of the civil engineers. Don't know where it is now hut would like to have the addresses of the rest of the CIITIS. Well, I guess that the end has arrived. Don't expect to get another one like this for a^vhile." 
Long lost MIKE LEVIS can now be found at 
2108 South Spring in St. Louis, Afissoun. All of 
you should enjoy his letter which reads, *'Since 
leaWng South Bend in 1954, I have become the 
proud possessor of a fine wife and a wonderful son 
and have successfully completed three years at the 
St. Louis U. School of Medicine. Wth me in 
school here are MATT KULUZ (and Matt, Jr., 
13 mo. old) and PHIL HIGGINS (and Judy Hig­
gins, 2 mo. old). This summer the last three 
eligible *CushIng Brothers' will be redpients of 
the Matrimonial Graces. During June TOM Mfr 
KEON and Eileen McCarthy will be married in 
South Bend. DICK LOEFFLER and Miss Frankie 
Leedle w-ill be wed in Maybec, Kfichigan, during 
the same month. On or alxmt August 14 PAUL 
KELLEY wUI plight his troth in Detroit, Miclugan. 
Dick and Paul have completed three years of med­
ical training, at Loyola and Xfichlgan, respectively. 
Tom is currently going through an insurance train­
ing program In X.Y.C. and plans to enroll in 
Fordham Law School in the fall. At last report 
the MULLANE brothers, JIM and JACK, are both 
out of the ser^-ice, married and living In Lockport, 
New York. Both are proud fathers. KIM HEW­
SON writes from Philadelphia that he has pur­
chased a Renault sports car, and after three years 
at Jefferson ^fedicaI College he is planning to saU 
for Europe and tour the Continent this summer. 
Kim sends word that JIM HAMLIN is now out of 
service and is planning to attend Comdt Business 
School in the near future. Last fall I received 
word that ROD DUFF was IMng in Oakland, California, as a member of the Army Intelligence Unit there. He has his o^vn apartment, wears civilian clothes and his work is confined to the campus of the U. of California. Rod seems to be enjoying the West. BOB ETTELBRICK, his wife, Judy, and their two daughters are living in Joliet, III., where Bob is working for the O'Connor Con­struction Co. At the time of their last letter, about ten months ago. Peg and JOHN LOGAN were living in Denver, Colorado, where John was stationed. John plans to enter Law School in the fall. GEORGE O'OONNELL (of Badin Bog fame) is out of the service, as is DAVE (SPOOK) MEAGHER. George is adding to his already pro­lific educational background, while Dave and his %vife are liWng in St. Ooud, IkCnnesota. JIM MURRAY writes that he is becoming firmly en­trenched in the Michigan area. He's said gooffi>ye to Bancroft, Iowa, and has taken a position with the Federal Court District in the Gary, Indiana, area." 
Ens. BILL C\RSON of 139 Treaty Elm Lane, Haddonfield, N. J., received a master's degree in mechanical engineering last June at Notre Dame. Since then the Navy and their shipyard at Brook* lyn, N. Y., have benefited from his services. He will marry Miss Mary Guamlerf, SMC '57, on November 9 in Warren, Ohio. Another recent wedding involved Miss Margaret Marie Middle-brook and HERB HAILE, JR. They tied the knot on June 29 at Holy Angds Cathedral in Gary, Ind., and now live near Chattanooga, Tenn., on Woconda Point Road, Harrtsim, Tenn. 
Alumnus, October-November, 1957 61 
BOB ZEIS, JR., furnislio us wilU llic follouing from 1444 Tamarac Si., Dt-nvcr 8, Colorado: "Upon graduation the wife and I decided we'd like to Settle in Denver. I came out licrc cold and after two miserable weeks of pounding streets and doors finally landed a swell job In the advertising de­partment of the Denver Post. Have spent two and a half happy years there nov\-, and needless to say we're rcaHy in love with ibc great Southwest. I've progressed too in the family department—in fact I feci reasonably sure no classmate has caught up yet. Tlic clan totals four now, three boys and a girl. Realize though that we had two before even leaving the campus. Am able to report on only one other *54 grad. Sec BOB IXEICH at most of tlic Denver Notre Dame cinb meetings. He's stationed out at Lowor>- Air Force base. Do you ever hear from either LEX WELCH or KARL WIEXEKE? AVould like to get in touch wiih either or both of them." 
LEX PETRILLO brought me up to date on Dupont and how they benefit from the Xotrc Dame class of '54. He informs me that JOE DiPIXTO, RON SMITH, and BRUCE FOX all are associated with that company. 
I know that anyone plannnig to go to the Amiy game will be interested in the following: *'TOM CAMPBELL reporting from 2033 Barry- St.. Wil­mington, DcL After 9 changes of address since graduation. I've decided I'm finally settled enough to write my first contribution for your .-XLUMXUS column. Following two years in the Marine Corps, spent mostly in Calif.. I am now a member of the IBM sales force, currently attached to the Wil­mington office. I was married last .April in Indian­apolis to Marv Ann Kramer of St. Mar\-*s (sister of Phil Kramer, '56). AXDY BAUER and CHAR­LIE WErrZEL, along with their wives, were on hand for the celebration. .Andy is still in the Marine Corps, and is Jusl beginning a three-year duty in .Augusta. Maine, following a transfer from the Brooklx-n Xa\y Yard. Andy's wife. Claire, is expecting their tliird cluld in Xovember. TOM FIELD' S family has entertained us in Wilmington, and Tom is due home next year after two years' study at Oxford, mixed with frequent travel, DAVE BURRELL , C.S.C.. writes us from Rome that he saw Tom there during Holy Week. Tliat's all the news 1 know of the General Program graduates and their activities; I'll be hoping to read In your column soon about the rest. Mary .Ann and I arc 
Dan Huntoon, '48, is the manager of Hertz 
hoping to see lots of old friends at the X.D.-Anny 
game in Philadelphia in Oct., so we're extending 
an invitation for all fans to look us up!" 
JOHX SHEERIX is serving aboard the USS 
Saratoga as Legal Officer but release from active 
duty is pending In the fall. ED SWEENEY was 
recently married to the former Miss Mary Lou 
Patchel in Chicago. He is employed in the Chicago 
public schools as a teacher of high school English. 
Lt. (j.g.) JOH.V 0'HAR.A is presently stationed 
at Whiting Field in Florida-as an instructor in 
aviation. He hopes, however, that ,the Xaxy will 
release him In Sept. in order that he may enter 
Medical Scliool at the University of California to 
which he has been accepted. He can be reached at 
1562 AWlleslcy .Avenue. West Los Angeles 25, Calif. 
STEVE and MariKii STECKBECK report the ar­
rix-al of Stephanie Lyn on June II. She Joined 
their two-year-old. John Stephen, at 1429 East 
Pcttit .Avenue. Fort Wayne, Ind. 
BOB EVELD brings us up to date with the following letter: *'I thought I'd drop a line to briefly record some of my actiWties since 1954. At school I was in the commerce-law program so I received my law degree in 1955. I was admitted to the Indiana Bar shortly thereafter, and entered the Marine Corps where I have been Legal Officer for the Marine Corps Supply Forwarding Annex, 100 Harrison Street. San Francisco, Calif. I have like­wise been associated with McKin M. Belli, world famous trial lau-\-er of San Francisco, since early this year. I was admitted to the 9th Circuit Court of .Appeals, and certified by Xa\*y J.AG. I had an article, *'Counscl for the Party before a Physical E\'aluation Board." published In the >farch 1957 JAG Journal, and received a letter of appreciation for it from .Admiral Ward, the Judge Advocate General of the Navy. I've handled hundreds of Personal Injuries .Actions before such boards here on the west coast. I'm married and have a 20­month-old son and we expect a second child next month. I should be out of the ser\*icc next month and hope lo practice law In Indiana." 
JUD and Carol MOR.AX welcomed Mar\- Eliza­
beth on July 24 to 4305 Southeast Ash St., in 
Portland, Oregon. 
Recent recipients of the Bachelor of Laws de­
pty- from Western Reser\'e TJniversitv arc DON 
KENNEDY and JOHX REIDY. JOE LEONETTI 
was also awarded a Master of Arts in Education 
there last snring- .At the same time RICHARD 
EISEXHAUER received a Master of Education 

 Rcnt-a-Car Company's new office in central 
Philadelphia, Pa. The first customer was N.D. aliminus Paul H. Hockiralt, '35, Che\-y-Chasc, Md. (right), who shakes hands M-ith William J. Jann, company executive. 
degree from Bowling Green State University. MSGR. OSMUXDO A. aVLIP has been ap­pointed director of the Sentinel, ^lanila's arch­diocesan newspaper, which is circulated through mucli of the Philippines. Msgr. Callp replaces Msgr. Justine C. Ortiz, who was director of the newspaper for more than three years. Msgr. Callp, who studied In the United States at the University of Notre Dame, received his master's degree In education In 1954. AVhen he got back to the Phil­ippines, he was named superintendent of Catholic scliools in the ;\rchdIocese of X'ue\'a Scgo\-ia and chancellor of the archdiocese. More recently he has been the Secrctarj" of the Episcopal Commission on Social .Action and National Director of Student Catholic .Action. BROTHER R.W'MOXD FLECK, C.S.C.. has become one of the youngest university heads in the country with his appointment as the new president of St. Edward's University. He is 30 years old. Brother Ra>-mond studied at Xcw York University and Manhattan College before joining the Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross and finishing liis studies at Xotre Dame, where he took his doctorate in 1954. He was av\-arded one of the first Xational Science Founda­tion Pre-docloral Fellowships In national competi­tion while at Notre Dame. D.AXIEL L. KEN­NEDY, 309 Xorth Wlliam Street. Jolict. III., u-as recently appointed Legal Staff Officer for the 29th Air Division. As such. Dan is charged with the conduct of mllitarv- legal matters for the Division which has its headquarters at ^falstrom and covers an area including Montana. Wvoming, and parts of North and South Dakota and X'ebraska. 
I've said more than enough now, thanks to all of you. Keep the good word pouring in and I'll try to keep everyone posted. 
From the .Alumni office: KEITH \\\ CALD\\*ELL, of Boise. Idaho, has been aDDoIntcd agenc>' Instructor of the New York Life Idaho general office In Boise. Keith Is a veteran of the U. S. Army, having served from 1947-1949. He and his wife. Joan, have two children: Lesli, a^c 2; and Chris, age 1. 
J.AMES R. LOONx\M, electrical cneinecr. has inined the Electronic Instrumentation Division of The Ramo-A\'ooldridqe Corporation. Los .Angeles. Loonam received his B.S.E.E. degree from the University of Notre Dame in 1954 and has had additional graduate work in the same field at the University of California at Los .Angeles. He has experience In flight test instrumentation, missile tracking instrumentation anaK'sis. radar modifica­tions and tclemelr>* data reduction, including two vears at the Wlute Sands Proring Ground. New >rexico. He is a member of the Institute of Radio Encineers. 
DR. CHARLES J. HIMMELBERG has iolnrd 4 the staff of Midwest Research Institute In Kansas City. Missouri. 
LEOXA HOSIXSKI, a woman graduate under the master's proeram of 1954. has entered the convent of the Sisters of St. Mar>' In St. Louis. Mo. She writes, *'You can be a^^ured of many prayers for all at Xotrc Dame, ^t is ver>* dear to me and I hold many fond recolhxtlnns of people and places that arc Notre Dame, ^fay I ask a , remembrance In all of your prayers?" 
lOSEPH ERXF,ST IMBRIACO an-" THOMAS JOSEPH GODFREY both recfived LL.B. degrees at lian-ard. Tom graduated cum laude. 
L.AURENCE FR^VXCIS SOVIK got an LL.B. from Syracuse University. CHARLF.S J. a\ZEAU Is working for Humble Oil in Midland, Texas. .At last report KENNETH A. SCmVARZ ivas still flying *'roman candles" with the U.S..A.F. * TINf SOTTEK plans to attend the South Dakota School of Mines for a master's. 
1955 Tom F. O'Malley 
• '"^ ^ 6738 Kenwood Kansas City, Missouri 

Every time that I start this column, it seems natural to say that it was just yesterday that I mailed the last one in. Actually, the time passes pretty fast, and It won't be long before we're gathering at South Bend for the first reunion. This Is planning a little in advance, but when we start shaking hands in 1960, I hope that every member of the class can say that he contributed something lo the class column at least once. A request seems necessary at this point. Don't u-alt that long to write. I need your news now. Speaking of news, I'll begin. 
These members of the family of the late Leo F. AVcIch, '15, of Indianapolis, were gathered at the 1957 Commencement for the most recent Welch graduation: (left to right) John R., '47; Mrs. Leo F. Welch: William P., '57; Mary Virginia; James C, '50, and Robert V., '50. Other Notre Dame Welches not present include brothers John A., '15, and Lawrence J., '17; and son Thomas .A., '43. Leo F., Jr., '38, was killed in World War II. 
JOHX HO0B5 and ilic former Miss Jacqiiciine Marie Buckley were married m Chicago on tt.e 29th of June. John still has some obligated scmce with the Army. I received an interesting letter from CJ\RL PETERS who is nou- lix-ing'in La JoUa, California, with his wife. Maureen. Carl h working for Coiu'air .-Vstronautics and liis work is primarily concerned with the Army's new iutcr-conlinental missile. An increase of 50 per cent is expected in the familv during December. Congratulations to them both. Carl mentions that PAUL CARDIXAL dropped by for a visit after being discharged from the Army. Paul is going to work for a company in the cast. LEOX RING is working for Convair during the summer. Ik* received his M.S. from Notre Dame this spring and intends to start at Cornell this fall for Ins Doctor's degree in aeri»­dynamics. 
JOE HIGGIN5 helped the cohinin along quite a bit hv sending word from the U.S.S. Ranger (CVA-r>I), FPO N. Y„ .\. V. Joe had been sta­'tioned on the U.S.S. Wasp since graduation and was fortunate enough to make a seven months cruise to Japan and llie Western Pacific. .Ah so. Boy-san. Ife is now stationed aboard tlie Ranger which was commissioned on August lOth and is the newest of the snpercarriers. Joe lixs recently be­come engaged and will niarr\- Miss Pat Lash of Ch'velaud no.\t June. Congratulations and best wishes to them both. Joe sends the news that follows. GENE LUND has received his wings from the Na\y and is (tviiig jets at Jacksonville. Fla. If you ever pass through N/\S. Olathe. Gene, I'm only a short distance from there and I would enjoy hearing from you. P.\UL MARBACH Is 
still stationed with a squadron at the Naval Station, . 
Quonset Point, R. I. JOHN KENNEDY is attend­
ing Na\y communications school at Newport. R. I. 
He was recently married to a young lady from 
Philadelphia but I regret that I don't have her 
name. John expects to be transferred to Coronado. 
Calif., in the near future. JOHN 0*ME^\RA has 
extended his stay in the Navy for another year and is stationed on a submarine with Norfolk as his home port. Do you have that shut-in feeling, John? The Navy must get in the blood stream of some of our fellow graduates since JIM PHIL­LIPS has also extended another year and plans to see the sights of Europe aboard the cruiser Des Moines. FR<\NK aVTAL^VNO received his com­mission in the Navy recently and is stationed aboard an LST with Norfolk as home port. Frank married a Chicago girl about six months ago but I haven't got names or places. 
DICK L^\NGE enlisted in tlic .Army soon after graduation and is with the Finance Corps in Ger­many. He bought a foreign automobile and is managing to see sonic of Europe. BOB BREZEN­SKI is working as an engineer for Chr^'sler in Detroit. Word from .MIKE COFFEY relates that he is working in I he Bureau of Naval Personnel Olficc in Washington. Mike was preWoitsly sta­tioned aboard the U.S.S. Wasp but was trans­ferred from there to the Naval Academy and then to BuPers. He is now the assistant head of the Radio-TX^-Movie Section of the bureau and ex­tended bis tour until July of '59 to get the job. If anvbodv needs free passes to the movies, contact Mike at Pers.B6332. Rm G-810, Bureau of Na\-al Personnel. Washington. D. C. Almost forgot, Mtkc is marr\-ing Miss Ona Lee Clark of Galesburg. III., on the Jth of October. Congratulations and best wishes to them both. BILL "TIPPY" Lx\RKIN is teaching physics at Xavler University in Cincin­iwii and married the fornjer Miss Sarah Jane Love of that city in August. JERRY BRANSFIELD finished two years on the U.S.S. Chilton and was one of the unfortunate thousands to be released from the Naw. Touch luck. Jerry. Will JOHN RLAVICK and RILL BYRNE please contact Milcc Coffey at the above address? You have been left thousands in the will of your late gardener and you have not been heard from for some time. Write, and presen^'e the estate. 
STEVE PREVOZXIK sent a letter wh'ch was a class col-imn in itself and I want to thank him 
again for being such a great help. Steve's address is 232 E- Tliird St., Media, Pa., and the news that follows is from his letter. DICK CAPKA, who is \'acationing with the Marines, returned from Okinawa in late April and is now stationed in North Carolina. PETE CAMPBELL b working with IBM in Wlmington, Del. FORST BROWN and the former Miss Joan Sandmann were married on June 29lh In Louisville, Ky. Best of luck to them both. Forst and his wife will live in Boston where he will begin his third vear at Har\-ard ^^cdicaI School. CARROLL DOWDEX was in the wedding party and is working in Louisville. ELLIS JOSEPH is working on his Doctorate in Education at Notre Dame. JI.M SCHERER is brushing up on his Latin and Logic and plans to enter the diocesan seminary at Cincinnati in September. Good luck* Jim. our loss is the priesthood's gain. 
BILL TUNELL will enter his third year of ^tcd School at Cornell this fall. WARREN GID­DENS is attendinc Loyola Medical School as are JOHX RYA.V, DON GALLAGHER, A\fEEL R.ASCHID, and DOX S.ANTSCHI. JERRY MILLER married the former Miss Helen Lorraine O'Kecfc in Crystal. Xorth Dakota on the 26th of August. MIKE KELLY writes of his adventures in Germany with the Air Force and it sounds like a good time is hem*; had by all. He is stationed with a-guided missile group and has been given the job as transportation officer for the detach­ment. Chicago will seem prcllv dull after this tour. Mike. TOM GALL.\GHER is stationed at Balmholder, Germany, and Is due bick in the States soon. TO.Nf *'TUCK" McCOY has been stationed In Frankfurt and is also scheduled to re­turn to the home of the free and the Braves (^filwaukee) verv soon. LEO KEEXAX Is sta­tioned northwest of Frankfurt, and FRANK FONTE Is In BTIIU. A orevious report has been confirmed. PETE RITTEX IS IX PARIS. We all can't have the breaks. JI.M BIGELOW Is sncnding his time in ^faln^. Gerraanv. DICK COOK and Miss Maureen Tafel became engaged 
recently. Congratulations. JOHN HARTIGAN to your local procurement ofHce. MIKE HEGARTY letter. PETE WALSH is stationed with the Army is still attending Northwestern Law School in was also seen threading his way througli the wed­on the island of Enlwetok but b released to the Chicago. ding group. Hugh returned to South Bend and ran outside world for rest and recreation whenever he into RON SMITH and JOHN MARCHAL who are needs it. DICK CONNELLY and his wile are 
The big news story o£ *^^c year breaks as "we 

still attending Law School there. Hugh's new stationed at Barksdale Air Force Base in Louisiana. 
icam that L.\RRY BREHL docs XOT, I repeat. 

address in Tulsa is 1384 E. 26th St. If any of They have a daughter, Kathleen, who was a year 
NOT, plan to make the Navy his career. By the time that this column is rtm through the presses, 

you visit, just walk In. Since the last party, there old in June. DICK SCHERPEREEL is stauoncd hasn't been a door. at Dyer Air Force Base in Texas, GORDON he will be in the process of hanng his civilian 
GOETEMANN Is at the Romano School of Art In 

-clothes altered. That Na\-y "cho\v" will do it PHIL STUMP is another one that I have to 
Gloucester, Mass., for the summer and has been 

€very time. Come to think of it, "chow" is a thank for his regular correspondence. It's always 
at the University of Iowa for the last three semes­

-species of dog. Could there be a connection? good to hear from you, Phil. He enclosed a pic­
ters working on a Master's Degree. PHALEN 

LarT>' and his wile plan to settle in Pittsburgh ture of Joanne, his scvcn-month-old daughter, and 
THO.MKON is an officer in the Navy and is sta­

and he i\ill work for an advertising or public rela­she's pretty as a picture. If the Gerber Foods 
tioned aboard a ship with Pearl Harbor as home 

tions finn. Thanks for the news, Larry, and people got a look at her, their trade mark baby 
port. JOHN RUSSO is still at Columbia Law 

keep up the good work. DON OW^ETT is sU-would be sent back for a face lifting. Here's to 
School and plans to be married this September. 

tioned aboard the U.S.S. Roy O. Hale and is many more just like her, Phil. He and his wife 
GUY PIERCE has been released from the Navy 

•engaged in radar picket patrols. Sounds exciting. arc living in Au Sable, Mich., and Phil is stationed 
and has returned to his home in Wisconsin with 

BOB BURNS is in the insurance business in his at \Vurtsmiih Air Force Base. He would like to 
his wife Pat and their young newborn. 

home town up in Vermont. BILL RICHARDSON hear from JOE FONTANA, JIM PORCARI, JOHN writes from the U.S.S. Forrestal that things are JAHOD.A, and JIM V.ACHRIS. His address Is 1st Bringing back memories of our monastic days .going smoothly for him and that he has thoroughly Lc John P. Stump, 412 Fighter Group (DM), in the catacombs of Badin Hall, DON DIXON 
•enjoyed the Med cruise just completed. Bill's wife WAFB, Oscoda, Mich. wrote from Toledo and brought me up to date on takes the land route while he goes it on the foamy. JIM GIBBONS is working tor an insurance firm his activities since graduation. He w'as drafted A nice arrangement to say the least. On the in Dallas. From the land of palm trees and grass into the Army In August of '55 and spent the home front. Bill and his ^vife share an apartment skirts, a message floated in on the last cool breeze. greater part of his tour in Germany. Don Is en­"building with JIM HESBURGH and his wife. (Judging from the weather here in Kansas City gaged to Miss Judith Blow and they plan to be -CH.\RLIE RE.AG.\N recently married the former this summer, this vnll be the last cool thing our married October 5 in Birmingham, Mich. Don ^(iss Marjorie Varnau. Congratulations and best way until the glacier starts to move again.) Back will be working with tlie Toledo Automotive Parts wishes arc again in order. Charlie is stationed at to the column! The message was from JOHN Corp. in that city. Another letter from DAVE \Bunkcr HiU AFB. HUGH SCH.\EFER again does LOCHTEFELD who is stationed vrith the Anny METZ has found Its way into my hands but, alas, 
his part to keep me supplied with news as he and his vrife in Honolulu. He plans to be released I'm afraid that it will be the last until I write sends greetings from the thriving city of Tulsa. from the Army this fall but has requested a life him again. 5orr>' that this has been a one-way Hugh had attended the festi\ities in Chicago \vhcn career with his wife, the former Miss Judith Robin­operation, Dave, but If I'm not the world's worst, FRANK FOLLE married the former Miss Diane son of Pontiac, Mich. John and Judith are the I'm close to it. He's still stationed aboard the Purcell. He mentions seeing an old classmate of proud parents of James Gregor, bom on the 22nd Hornet with an intelligence group and spent some ours who didn't finish with us but sends his regards, of April. Train him early, John, and he can earn time in Iwa Kunl with an intelligent group. "Ah • 
TOM MURR.\Y. PHIL SHERIDAN was seen at some spending mone>* painting election posters for so . . . now we proceed to play five card draw." the punch bowl and was muttering something about the campus politicians. By the time that he's You're smart, Dave. Just watcli and don't play. Navy life never being like this. I'm not hinting, released from tlie Army, John will have completed As reported previously, Dave plans to be married Phil, but remember that a retired Navy man can his Master's Degree in Fine Arts from the Univer­in September out California vray. JACK PINTER -still take advantage of Navy Excliangc prices. Write sity of Hawaii. He included some tidbits in his and BILL KREPPS arc also spending time in the land of the rising sun. JIM CARROL Is flying B-26's for the Air Force at Atami, Japan. FRANK CLELAND, now a 1st Lt. in the Marines is sta­tioned at Iwa Kum, Japan, and is due to go to 
flight school soon. Looks like a few more years ­

Notre Dame football coach Tcrrj* Brennan diagrams a play for (left to right) Jimmy Walsh, 
for Frank. TOM WELLY is stationed aboard a

"Sonny" Fox, and Joan Terrace, stars of the CBS-TV show "Let's Take a Trip," which destroyer escort and will, soon depart for a station originated from the campus September 8. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C-S.C. (extreme in Pearl Harbor. Tom and his wife expect their left), Notre Dame president, also appeared on the program, which was seen over more than 
first in July and I hope that all has gone well by the time that this column appears. IL\L UTL-

one hundred stations from coast to coast. 
LENBORG is still stationed aboard the U.S.S. Larson and wedded bliss things are shaping up for him also. JIM VACHRIS was passing through Kansas City on his vvay back to the Air Force Base at Sallna, Kansas, and he took time to give me a ring. It was greatly appreciated, Jim, and it v%-as good to hear from you. (I might mention here that if any of you are passing through, even ' for a few short minutes, get In touch and we'll ; chin for awhile.) Jim is flying tankers and says that he enjoys It almost as much as he does flving airplanes. He Is being sent to Europe for several months with his squadron and his wife and family have returned to the cast to stay until he arrives back in tlie states. Another welcome letter from PAUL FULL.MER tells of his trials and tribula­tions at Fort Leonard Wood where he has been taking basic training.- He was fortunate enough to get in under the sbc-month program and should be' released sometime in October. %Vhen I received his letter, he was bound for Ft. Sam Houston, Texas. and v*'3s anxious to get in touch with some of the '55'ers In the area. Paul will be attached to the ^fedical Training Center there so look him up. 
DAVE COHEN married the former Miss Lucv-Burke Connolly on July 6 in Our Lady's Chapel at Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. Congrat­ulations and best wishes to Dave and his wife. ', WALLY GUGLIELMO called as he was passing' through Kansas City the other night but unfor­tunately I wasn't home and didn't get a chance to talk vrith him. Sorrj-I missed you, Wally, but be sure to call again If you get down my way. 
I was very glad to receive vvord from DICK O'ROURKE as I had lost track of him since ' Navy school in Athens, Ga. Dick has been sta­tioned at the Naval Air Station, ^femphls, Tenn.. since September of '55 and vrill remain there until he's discharged in December. He and his wife, the • former Miss Carolyn Llnnig, are now sporting a third member of the family. He was bom on April 7, Richard Michael, and, in this comer, weighed In at 7 lbs. 5 oz. with no trunks on. Congratulations Dick and Carolyn. Dick mentions seeing JACK STEPHENS and his vrife. Jack is stationed at MalIor>' Air Force Base. Tliey have a son, Jeofrer>-, bom December 3, 1956. I received a call from JIM BROUGHTON the other night as he was passing through Kansas City on his v^'ay home to Detroit. Jim has been ofSclally released from the Army after spending many months in Korea. We had a few K. C. cool ones together and enjoyed being civilians again. HARRY £DEL­STEIN and the former Miss Rose Marie Hublou were married on the 22nd of June in Minneapolis. Congratulations and best wishes to them both. 

CHUCK O'BRIEN writes that he has completed his trwning program with AHis-Chalmcrs and will be working in ^filwaukee for the Systems and Procedures department of the company. Chuck helped a great deal by passing along some vital class news. GEORGE RIORD/\N and his wife arc stationed \vith the Na\y in Hawaii and have set another place at the table for yoimg Kenn. No, not a visiting relative, this one really belongs. JACK McMAHON is presently stationed at Fort Bclvoir, Va. He and Miss Carole Harnist were married in Minneapolis during the month of .\ugust. JI.M CENNAME is working for Sun Oil Co. in ^rarcu5 Hook, Pa. MARK HExVLY is due to finish his two-year stay with the troops and will start with AlHs-Chalmers sometime in the fall. 
BILL WEBB wrote and described his advcntm'es since graduation but I'm afraid that they are too numerous to mention. Anyone interested can get the whole thing in a nutshell by attending tlie showing of "Around the World in Eighty Days" at your neighborhood theatre. Summing up. Bill is now in the Marines and is spending his time on the golf links at Parris Island Country Club. Bill has met and become engaged to the future Mrs. Webb, Jean Redmond, and they plan to be married when Bill is paroled from the Marines next August. He mentions seeing DON \'ECKEL, FR.ANK WHITE, BERNIE SMITH, and GEN­ERAL PATE teeing up at the 19th hole. 
I gathered together the pages of a letter that had fluttered down from 35,000 feet above and discovered that JERRY HUGHES had just passed through town. Jerry is, what is referred to in the trade as, a "zoomie." He's stationed at Webb Air Force Base in Big Springs, Texas, and spends his time fl>-ing as an instructor in the T-33. Not to be confused with the Ford sports model. He seems very happy with the work but mentions that he misses the excitement of the Student Senate meetings on >fond3y night. I guess it just gets in our blood, Jerry. The next items are from his letter. JIM PORC;\RI and AVALT ZOTTER are stationed at T>-ndaIl Air Force Base in Florida. TOM ARMSTRONG is stationed whh his wife at Laredo Air Force Base, Texas. DICK BURKE, "El Presidente," sends greetings from the Windy City and passes along many items of welcome news. My only objection is that Dick never includes news of himself so Vl\ have to assume that he is still attending Chicago University Law School. G mon, Dick, sing out. JOE S^IFT and the former Miss Mary Carey were married on August 
20. Again, a round of congratulations and best wishes is in order. JOE DALEY is still attending Yale Law School. JIM DW^TR will start his second year at Seton Ilall ^fed School. JIM GRIFFIN and Ins wife, Bunny, are expecting a ta.-c exemption in the near future. Congratulations, JIM NORTON married the former Miss Regina Costcllo on August 17th In Jersey City. DON PETERS married the former Miss Kathy Burke around the first of August. 
From the Alumni Office: 
A miniature Notre Dame reunion, spiced by some good-natured raillery*, took place at Brooke Army Medical Center, Fort Sam Houston, Texas, in August. 
P.F.C. JOE MADIGAN, Shaker Heights, Ohio, and PRIVATE PAUL FULLMER, Elmhurst, Illi­nois, both 1955 Journalism grads, met for the first time since graduation. Their cl\*ilian lives had run a parallel course. Both had taken up sports writ­ing, Madigan as a staff writer for the Cleveland News. Fullmer as assistant sports editor of the Aurora (111.) Beacon-News. 
Joe was inducted In November, 1956, after 17 months with the News, while Paul entered the ser\ice In April after 22 months with the Beacon-News. Their military commitments are different. Joe must ser\-e for two years. Paul ended a six-month obligation in September. 
At Notre Dame Paul was associate and sports editor of the Scholastic with Joe as one of his staff assistants. Thus when the pair met, Madigan Immediately pointed to his stripe and jokingly re­minded Paul of the difference in rank. Joe is assigned to the Public Information office, while Paul was a medical trainee. Joe took it upon him­self to write a feature 5tor>' about Paul for distri­bution in Elmhurst and Aurora. 
Rev. Henry Bolger, CS.C. (standing extreme left), head of the University of Notre Dame physics department, welcomes three visiting scientists to the summer meeting of The Amer­ican Physical Society held on campus. They are (left to right) J. B. Johnson, The Thomas Edison Laboratory, ^Vcst Orange, N. J.; L. Marton, National Bureau of Standards, Wash­ington, D. C; and R. J. Maurer, University of Illinois, Champaign, Approximately 20O physicists attended the sessions. 
JOHN >L NICKNISH got his master's degree 
from South Dakota School of Mines and is now 
attending the University of Arizona on a teacliing 
felloivship working toward his Ph.D. 
.\ few comments, gcntlrmcn, before I close for 
another time. If the word "congratulations" 
seems uvcr-worked in this column. It's because it 
Is. AVhat else can one say, to one. If you have 
any suggestions, please enclose them on a postcard 
and send tliem to me. ^Ml entries will be judged 
on the basts of originality and neatness. In the 
else of a tic. I'll continue to use the word 
"congratulations." 
A few parting thoughts for this column. Last 
year, 40,000 people In this country died from gas. 
One thousand inhaled it. five hundred put a lighted 
match to it, and 38,500 stepped on It. 
Keep smiling, and cvcr>*one will wonder what you've been up to! 
195 6 '^°^" Dcasy 
5697 North Lincoln Avenue Chicago 45, Illinois Please note that this column comes your way under the direction of a new correspondent. . . . Please bear with inc while our Class secretary AL VITT ser\-es his time with the Na\y. On behalf of AI, I sincerely ask your help In keeping up the good work of dropping a line or two no^v and then Informing the column of where you are and 
•what you are doing . . . Word comes from JIM 0*BRIEN who will begin his theological studies at St. ifary's Seminary in Baltimore, as a candidate for the priesthood for ihc Rockford, Illinois, diocese; that PAUL KEAR­NEY has wed Mar^- Dahm (St. Mary's '56). The Kearneys wiU be living in Norfolk, Va., subject to the whim of the Navy. An interesting letter from LT. TOM WAGE­.NfAN now in Thule, Greenland, tells of STEVE ROGERS attending Har\-ard Graduate School. . . . MARTIN CODY has been assigned to an Army post on Okinawa. . . . BILL MALLOY Is teaching English at Gilmore Academy. . . . JOHN CURRY married Pat Blessington last October and is sta­
tioned at Ft. Monmouth« N. J. . . . MIKE HOGAN is on active duty with the Army at Fort Devon, Mass. . . . Tom's roomie, PETE FOY, married Janet O'Neill and they are now liring in Karlsruhe, Germany (136th T Co. (Medtrk) APO­164, c/o Postmaster, New York, N. Y.)­
ENS. DAVE DAVIN reports from Jacksonville. Florida, of being commissioned last March along %rith L.\RRY O'CONNOR, TL\f MURPHY and DAN LIDDY. .. . At Fort Chaffee, Ark., stands BOB RUHL while TO.M BENNETT is stationed" at Great Lakes, Illinois. . . . Dave also mentioned he took the walk down the aisle and met Kay Griffin last December. Congratulations, Dave!!! 
GEORGE KREMBS is awaiting his September wedding to Shirley Rostal after completing work on a Master's in EE from Stanford. . . . SID< WILKIN sends best wishes from Tonguu, Korea, about 25 miles from Seoul and as yet hasn't bumped into any '56 Classmates. . . . FR.ANK CAPPEL­LINO is in Field Radio Repair School at Ft. Monmouth, N. J., after he and Nancy Walpole­bccame engaged last New Year's Eve. 
TOM CLrVUSSEN is tinkering with the latest of jet engines at the El Segundo Division of Douglas iMrcraft. . . . COS TAYLOR and wife, Polly, are the proud parents of Dave Edward as of ^larch 27. . . . The stork also dropped In on TOM and TonI CAPLET this summer, learing Tommy, Jr., earlier' than expected, but all are doing well, as Tom returned to I.B.^f. after his release from the-­Air Force. . . . 
JOHN "CY" CY^VINSKI Is keeping tab on the future M.D.'s reports that he and BOB GULDE, ROGER EWALD, VINCE EILERS and ANDY" McROBERTS all enjoyed various degrees of aca­demic success at St. Louis University Med School. During the Easter \'acation he compared notes, with JERRY KENNY, TO.M .MURPHY, LOU^ BONNUCCI and PHIL BOHNERT who are study­ing at Northwestern Med School. . , . From-Loyola Med School good reports have been heard* about FR.\NK DWAN. DICK HENDRICKS, ANGE CAPOZ2I and JOE (MOOSE) O'CONNOR. who married the lovely Jane Powers this summer. .. . 
THOMAS KIERNAN Is with the 3rd Combat Surgical Hospital, Fort Meade, Maryland. It seems that Tom is using his leisure time to write-a novel. Hope your CO doesn*! hear about this, Tom. . . . 
JOHN MANION and ^fa^y Ann Grittani were-
Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November, 1957 65' 
married in St. Joseph's Cliurcli, Mishawaka, Sep­tember 7. John is completing his training program at the Chain Belt Co. in Milu-aukec while suc­cessfully pulling for the Braves between trips to the breweries. . . . 
Tlic Class of 1956 is asked to remember in their prayers the father of LT. MASOX SULLIVAN who passed away August 18. Mason flew home from Frankfort. Germany, for the 5er\"iccs of the former Judge of the Sfunicipal Court of Chi­cago. . . . 
The latest word on ENS. GENE BRENNAN sta­tioned at Corrcy Field. Pensacola, is that as a result of one little scrimmage on a summer's after­noon, Gene ended up with one broken clavicle. Looks like the Navy is a bit rougher than the da>'5 of Dillon v. Sorin. .. . 
Back on campus working for those Masters are PETE CAXNOS* who spent the summer with Min­neapolis-Honev-wclI and P,-\T P0\'NTON who stayed on for intensive research. Understand that both Pete and Pat enjoyed teaching an E£ lab course and gi\-ing GEORGE BROUCEK a pink slip. George has recovered, however, well enough to slip Marge Smith (St. Mar\-'s '57) a minia­ture. . . . 
PAT CRADDOCK, now, engaged to .Arlenc Philip, is busy working on his ifastcr's In Labor Relations while being employed at the Cities Senice Oil Co. in downtoii-n Chicago. . . . 
CH.ARLEY "MONK" MILLIG.VN was last seen heading toward the BILL H.ARPER residence in Iowa to view the Harpers' second addition, born early this summer. . . . 
DON COSTELLO is currently writing copy for ifontgomeiy Ward &: Co.'s Advertising Dept. *'Squccze" can be seen dri\*ing around in his new red convertible occasionally slopping to pick up a stranger. . . . 
Witnessed the JOHN KEG.\LY-Peg Lomasny (St. Mar\*'s) wedding this summer and ran Into ENS. JIM MACK, stationed in Ogdcn, Utali, BILL KEARNEY who has since been enrolled at Ft. Leonard Wood. JOHN DWTER, studying medi­cine at Loyola and JOHN GAFFNEY, looking as good as ever. ... 
Tliru the grapevine comes the following: JOE BURKE is on the high seas sailing out of Norfolk, Va., and DON LOGAR and BOB BURKE arc enjo>*ing their stay at Pensacola. . . . Atr. and ifrs. D.AN QUIGLEY arc bus\- taking care of a new .\ugust arrival called Patricia (?). . . . Con­^ratuladons are in order for LT. TOM DONOVAN and Pat Murphy, married as of May II. Both are in Fort Hood. Texas, enjoying tlic tumblewced after MIKE MOONEY "from Indianapolis" showed up. Incidentally, Mike, where arc you now? 
BOB CARRANE just returned from Europe and Is well on his way tov\-ards an LL.B. from DePauI 
U. College of Law. Bob informs me that PHIL ^VHITE is writing his thesis at Iowa State and upon completion will soon make arrangements for 
a. wedding with Miss Ann Sexton. . . . Manlc>', Iowa's PETE HANSEN Is enjoying his hitch with the Naw, stationed in Chicago. .. . TOM POUTRS, my .-Mumni Hall mate, spent the summer gathering material for his Master's in I^bor Relations In a Madison. Illinois, steel plant. Tom, shoveling a blast furnace, wrote wondering why he had to use his back instead of his "brains'*. . . . ROGER EW.ALD Is married and living in St. Louis. ALVIN DUBOIS VITT, EUGENE E. FLOWER, JERROLD L. McPARTLIN, JOSEPH A. FLORES and MALCOLM WILLIAM BURNETT, JR., graduated from the Na\y's officer candidate school of the na\*al station, Newport, R. I., and were commissioned ensigns. STEPHE.N' JOSEPH ROGERS received an A.M. 
from Har\*ard. JOHN DROEGE got married this pxsl summer. DON BRENN.\N Is training with jets in Texas. JAMES MIL.-VS is a marine second lieutenant 
training in Quantico, Va. He was married in the summer. 
The column would appreciate Iiearing from you people, so drop a postcard or two as soon as possible. How about some news from JIM GAM­MON, TOAD RYAN, MIKE FIELD, DAVE THOMPSON, MIKE MULROONEY, RON G\SEY, LEO O'DONNELL and both JOHN DONNELLYs. 
From Alumni Office: ALFRED HE.\LY received an M.A. degree from llie State University of Iowa in August. 
BURTON E. TOEPP II has joined the staff of tiic Whiting Research Laboratories of the Stand­ard Oil Company (Indiana). 
1 0R 7 Charles P. Williamson 
I T»# p Q ^^ go5 Mt. Vcmon, Illinois 
Never have so many people scattered so fast as they have in the past few months. It seems we just can't get away from N.D. even though we have graduated so recently. Personally speaking, in my barracks here at Quantico, ever>' morning I au-akc to find DICK SWIFT and PAUL FLATTERY asleep after first coll (incidentally, they have a neu* nickname for Paul—"Barney Bedsores." be­cause he spends so much time asleep), and BOB HA\TERKAMP Is usually present, though usually the last one in bed due to his nocturnal mean­derings. 
To go through a roster of the troops here at Quantico, it almost reads like a portion of the class roster of N.D.'s 1957 products. We are pretty well populated with about 30 of our brand new Alumni stationed at Officer's Basic School here. 
In the following paragraplis ver>' little attempt will be made at coherence, but rather a great deal of effort expended to get out a lot of news about our class and friends. 
To begin wIili, J.ACK KUHN was married on the 15th of June to the former Jean Hudack. Jack is presently employed by Hasklns and Sells Ac­counting firm in Baltimore. Marviand. His ex-roommate, J.ACK KIRCHNER, also followed that same path, and was married June 8 in Washington. 
D. C. His bride is the former Shirley Lewis. Jack is among the '"'ground pounders" here at Quantico, but lives off the base In .Arlington, Va. 
Also In the A\''ashington area are to be found DAVE NOON and G.AYLORD HAAS who were, at last word, employed at the Patent Office. 
Other people seen recently in the East were DOCTOR AARON ABELL and his family ^vho stopped to visit LT. JOE CARBONI, USMCR at his home in Philadelphia. 
RAY MILLER of Fairvicw Park, Ohio, is at present employed in Cleveland, Ohio, by the Chevrolet Di\-ision of General Motors. Ray Is expected to go on active duty with the Air Force as a 2nd Lt. on the 23rtl of Jan. 
JOE PETRAZELLI was married Aug. !7 to the former Claudettc Butler. Joe is going to teach high school this coming year In Cranford, N. J. 
JIM ULRICH is working In Wise . . . could not find out where, but he plans to be married the 28th of Dec. In the Interim, Jim is planning to enter the Marine Officers Candidate Course at Quantico as are LARRY HENNESSEY, CHUCK CONNORS, and GREG SULLIVAN. 
MIKE GLYNN, 2nd Lt., USMCR, is presently at Pensacola in flight school, and we expect to have a few* more joining him soon. 
AVhat a crew they must have at Ft. Leonard Wood, ^^o., with this group—CHUCK GRACE. GERRY BECKERT, BILL McGOWAN, and DON MacMANAMON—who are all enduring the Army for six months. .Also In for six months, we know-not where, are JOE ROHS and BILL BARTLING. 
Also taking a large group from our class Is Na^-al Officers Candidate School at Newport, R. I. DIXIE LEWIS is presently there, and entering soon will be: MOORE McDONOUGH (Galveston gangster), MARK MALEY, JACK CROWLEY, ED CHOTT, NICK CONLON, TERRY CROW­LEY, and TO.M GUNNING. 
J.ACK CASEY is to be found working (?) In Chicago. Along with him is BOB DUNSEATH who finds work to be excellent at Firestone. PAUL HEER Is also in the Windy City working for Arthus Anderson and Co. doing accounting work.. MIKE COLLINS Is representing Thor Power Tools In Chicago. 
MATT WEISS and GUS LUEPPKE arc to be found this fall at St. Louis Univ. Law School. Also to be found In Law school this fall will be ED DEAN at Fordbam. who Is now working for Erie R.R. at Montclaire. N. J. JACK MOYNA­HAN will be at N.D. Law this fall, and is pres­ently working for Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. in Chicago. 
Ens. HAL BLAKESLEE undoubtedly has the softest touch In the Na\y. being stationed at Great Lakes, almost at home. 
JIM CUSACK is bound for Loyola Med. in Chicago, while ARTHUR "SKIP" JOHNSON, also of Peoria, is heading for Northwestern. 
TOM NICNISH is looking for\vard to Georgetown 
Med. 
Also to Graduate school in the Fall: 
HARRY HEYL to Northwestern Grad. In Eng­
lish. LARRY HAMMELL to MIT, presently em­
ployed at Grumman. 
TOM BERG to N.D. on Felloivship In aero­
nautical engineering, spent the summer with Bcndix 
AWatlon In South Bend. 
BOB S.ASSEEN to the Univ. of Chicago on a Danforth Scholarship In Political Science. He was married to Jane Moran.in New York the third weekend In -August, with HARRY HEYL and ED KEENAN attending. 
It appears four years of life at N.D. have pre­
cipitated many marriages—among them: 
JOHN SLEVIN was married in Peoria on July 
6. The list of guests from Notre Dame In attend­ance is amazing. Tliose present were: BOB BER­CHINSKI, PAT SNYDER, BUZZ WARNER, DENNY BRITT. L.\RRY BEDFORD, JACK CROWLEY, BILL BARTLING, TERRY CON­WAY, BOB .MARCO, BILL MOONEY, BILL Mc­GOWAN, DON McMANA.MON, CHUCK GRACE, TO.M DOYLE, SKIP JOHNSON, JIM CUSACK, ABE SEELMAN, ex '57. TONY BUSHNELL, ex '57, BILL FORTIER, ex '57, GENE KEETS, BUD SCHLEHUBER, J.ACK MOYNAHAN, K. J. PHE­LAN, JOHN FEELEY and CARY SCHULTEN. 
ED MURPHY wed to Sheila Ryan In Phoenix. Ariz., on June 8. He is presently on six months duty with the National Guard in San Antonio. 
JOHN WOULFF married In June at Chicago— now- also at Quantico. 
JACK CRUTCHER to .Maggie Wlldc In Peoria. III., In June. Jack Is working at the National Security Agency in Washington. 
JOHN LUCEY married to Mar>- BrazoWch August 30, in Whiting, Ltd.. with TERRY CROW­LEY as best man. He is stationed aboard the USS Alamo In San Diego. 
ED KEENAN to be married Nov. 30 in Bronx-ville, N. Y., to Ellle Timlin. JOE -MANZO will ser\e as best man. Both Joe and Ed are sta­tioned at Quantico. 

JAKE KEIVER was married to Barbara Sippel after graduation and is working for Allegheny Steel -in Pittsburgh. 
BOB WEINER to Mar>- Susce in LaPorte, Ind.. in June. Bob is working for Na\-al Research in Washington on new- atomic powered vessels. 
AL REICHERT will marr>- Marilyn Coddcns at Notre Dame in Sept. Air Force will get him as a 2nd Lt. before too long. 
WILLIE LENXON to wed Sally McGrath at Niagara Falls, N. Y., Sept. 7. 
VINCE DOOLEY, another of the Quantico crowd, to marry Barbara Barker of Munster, Ind.. the 28th of Dec TOM GUNNING. NHKE BOYLE, JACK O'DROBINAK, and TO.M Mc-NULTY are expected guests. 
DON MACHENBERG, also at Quantico. mar­ried to Mar>' Needier August 31, at Fort Wayne. Ind. Mary is a '57 St. Mar>-'s Grad—Don was known also as quite a Dixie Highway fan, having crossed It many, many times, JERRY HORNBACK , to be best man, and BOB HAVERK.AMP In attendance. 
GREG CARRIGAN was married in June and Is at Parris Island with the USMC. 
While on my way to St. Pat's in Washington a few weeks ago, I met TO.M McMURTRY also bound for church. After we got to St. Pat's w-e met F.ATHER DEAN, our Sophomore Class Chap­lain, who asked to be remembered to the class. Tom IS working for the USX Bureau of Personnel in Wash., but will be leaving in Sept. to enter flight school at Pensacola. Tom was In custody of JOE REICH'S car. as Joe is now in the Med­iterranean with the USX on maneuvers. 
Also to flight school: TOM MULCVHY as an Air Cadet, and DICK BROWTS' from Cicero. 
JOHN FEELEY Is working for Caterpillar in Peoria. D.AN BEGGIE is taking summer courses at Pitt. LENNIE DiGIACOMO is working In the Big City, N. Y. JI.M DRISCOLL is working in Chicago and living at home. DICK GORMx\N is working for Associates Investments In Miami. JACK FOLKS was eniplovcd bv the Nassau-Suf­folk Lumber Co. of Long Island. TOM WALSH is working for the 111. Toll Road Commission, and expects to join the Army Oct. 20, MIKE MC­CARTHY Is emoloyed by Touch-Nevin Accounting firm. BOB KUHN Is working for McCann-Erick­son Advertising In N. Y. JIM HIGGINS U In Rochester, Minn., with IBM. DICK CUNNING­

66 Notre Dame Alumnus, October-November^ 1957 
': HAM is giving his miiltitiidinnus talents to tlic 
N. V. State Highway Dcpt. as a Civil Engineer. GREG CONROX is employed at Xordcn Labnra­torics in N. Y. TOM SHE.\HAN is a Jr. executive 

'. lor tlic Shell Corp.—definitely a bright rising store : ^t o whom I still owe a book. MIKE HIGHI^VX 
• and PETE MARWICK for Mitchell Accounting f :firm. BUZZ \\*URZER is giving his all to the [-: Chicago Trlb. doing advertising work. 
I : EXS. JIM CUMMIXGS, USX, must be dated 
about his assignment to Balboa in the Canal Zone, ^, All the class will be envious of this. p LT. DOX TIMM, US Army, last heard from ,' in Indianapolis in Disbursing—quite a contrast to 
!^: Jim Cummings—wait'II I get sent to Okinawa. « EXS. JOHX RE.\RDOX and PAUL OXOX­K NOR last seen at Quonsct Pt., R. I., will be •• bound for Pcnsacola to fly. 
jl EXS. TOM BETTERTON% married since gradua­;{ tion, and BILL ALLEX arc headed to Jacksonville. 
j] DON MURRAY to Dental School at Loyola. 
! Tliis you must bear with me on—LT. ROY DcBELLIS, USAF, and his wife Diane plus their 
• daughter, Gina, are on their way to Castle Air 
* Force Base in Cilif. Gina is as cute as she cnuld ? be—I'm slightly prejudiced—she's my god-daughter. ~ SAM RIZZO is selling cars in Liberty, Texas, and ; plans to be married Oct. 26. 
\ AL LUM and GROVER KAM plus their par­
- ents took a continental tour and hit cver>' big city in the U. S. When they arrived in Texas," GEORGE 
•
 STRAKE took them all for their first Iiorscback 

•
 ride. The last letter from GEORGE STRAKE dis­closed that DICK BARRY, BUD FRIEDHEIM. JOHX LUCEY. JIM MILOTA, TOM HUGHES, 


; and BIXD CARLIXG were all in Naral Amphibious i School at Coronado, Calif. 
MIKE BOYLE is on a Destroyer Escort in San Diego. 
George (Strakc) is on the LST Rice County last heard of heading for amphibious operations in the Pacific (Hawaiian) area. 
TOM JEWELL is presently employed by Fire­stone in Cleveland and plans to leave Sept. 19 to Join the US Marine Corps. 

PAUL CLEMENS is on his \vay to Europe to : fulfill his Fulbright scholarship in France. 
J._ E. MARYAXSKI is on the coating technical 5er\ice staiT of the Dow Chemical Co., of Midland, Mich., while R. J. WOODS is on the plastics technical service staff of the same organization. 
PIERRE LaPEYREIS is a member of the en­gineering dept. of Montsano Chemical at Texas City, Texas. BERXIE SCHORLE Is also employed by Montsano at Dayton, Ohio, in the research and engineering staff. 
DOX FLIXN to grad school, wc know not where. GARLAND DEVER hoping to join the IGY ex­pedition to Antarctica—if not, then the Army for a short stay—then the Geophy-sical Service Co. 
ED HEALY—another married—to two years with the US Army, going to Fort Sill, Oklahoma, for arllllcrj*. 
DICK MEIXER was married Aug. 29. GEXE 

' MUHLHERR to be married Sept. 14, and working for Geophysical Scr\*icc Inc. of Dallas. TOM SHROEDER has a grad asslstantship at Wash. Univ. in St. Louis. JOHN TRECKMAX doing field work in the west for Shell Development Co., and will go to grad school at the Univ. of Colo­rado. ED ZILLIKEN is working for the Humble Oil Co. in Wichita Falls, Texas, and plans to attend St. Louis U. grad in the fall. 
BARRY COROXA Is playing the role as dock-hand of the New Jersey waterfront. . . . RAY 

p MILLER of Tulsa is attending Univ. of Oregon's field camp in gcolog>-, and will then roughneck till school starts. 
Also in the foothills of Virginia—Lts.—ART GUETERDIXG, JOE MANZE, JOE MOCARSKI, JERRY HORXBACK, COXXIE LAXE, JACK COGAN, DICK COLEMAN, JACK BUCKLEY, DICK SWIFT, PAUL FLATTERY, BOB HAVER­KAMP, TOM KAXE, FRAXK BROPHY, JIM SWEEXEY of Florida, and JIM SWEENEY of Chicago, MARV HOFFMAN, DICK WOODS, RAY ROTH, and yours truly. 
ilk And last, but not the least in Importance—BILL LLOYD broke his neck water skiing, and prayers are requested for his speedy and healthful recov­ery*. Also, a note to Bill would help cheer up some rather tough and tr^-ing days. 
ED LYNCH dropped a note the other day, and he is entering the seminary shortly. He will be at St. Charles Borromeo In Philadelphia. 
RAY (RA) DeSUTTER entered the Trappists June 16. Ray was one of the happiest people who ever walked the X.D. campus with our class of '57—and a fine all-round fellow. He may receive mail, but cannot answvr, so if anyone wishes to write, plca<!e send their letters to his home in Attica. Ind. Just the name and town arc suffi­cient address. 
JOHX F. WIXDOLPH Is working In the U. S. National Museum in Washington as a palcontologic comparator. 
JOH.y H. JUERLIXG and EDWARD JAMES SOREXSOX' graduated from the XaxVs officer can­didate school of the na\-al station, X^ewport, R. L, and vverc commissioned ensigns, USXR. 
L.-\WREXCE V. HAMMEL is working for a master's degree in civil engineering at >i.I.T. 
Cummins Engine Company, Inc., Columbus, In­diana, has recently announced the emplovmcnt of JOHX D. DURBIX, JAMES R. WILSOX and STEPHEX D. PEXXY, JR. Durbin and Wilson arc beginning as trainees in the sales division and Penny in the manufacturing division until given a division assignment with the Cummins organ­ization. All three will reside in Columbus. Jim Wilson is married. He and Mrs. Wilson have two children. Richard, age 3. and Pamela. 20 months. 
DR. RICHARD E. ST.ANTON, an Instructor at Catholic University In Washington, has been ap­pointed /Assistant Professor of Chcmistrx' at Canislus College. Dick was a leaching fellow for two years at Notre Dame. 
JOHN L. 0'BRIE.V, of Oakville, Ontario, has been engaged in summer work as a research assist­ant for the Metats Research Laboratories in Niagara Falls, New York. John has entered Har\-ard Uni­versity this fall to study for his Ph.D. degree in metallurgical engineering. 
And in closing—finally—I'\e just about run out. All this news that is here is thru the courtesy of a few people—mostly by word of mouth. Conse­quently, inaccuracies may have developed. So please, in the near future take just five minutes and drop a card to me at either of the below addresses. Right now Tm stationed at Quantico, and run Into a great many X'.D. men. but soon I may be in Okinawa or in the Canal Zone with JIM CUM^HXGS—one never knows. Just a few lines with some information about yourself and your friends would be greatly appreciated. 
1957 LAW SCHOOL CLASS NEWS 
Paul Kraus 1730 W.Bancroft St. Toledo 6, Ohio 
Well, gang, here goes the first one. It seems like ages since all of us left the stadium after graduation. No doubt many cram courses and bar exams have been taken by this time. I know that the six of us who took the Ohio Bar are glad that it's over. M of this dale, I have learned that I passed the exam along with TOM S(PIKE) CAL­DER who attained the highest grade in the Ohio Exam. Just like X.D. Congratulations, Tom! In addition, Christ the King Church In hometown 

•Worcester. Mass., was the scene of Tom's marriaee to Patricia Anne Coffey on August 17. After their honevTuoon, Tom will begin his duties as clerk for the ironnrable Potter Stewart in the Federal Court for the Sixth Circuit in Cincinnati. 
^Vord comes from central Indiana tliat TOM BEELER has joined the Army Reser\'c and Is a member of a Counter Intelligence unit assigned to Indianapolis. He left for his six months active duty training on August 17 and went to Ft. Leonard Wood. Mo. His most recent letter stated that ZEKE ZANARDI had joined the National Guard in Iron Mountain, Mich., and was planning to attend Ft. Leonard Wood for training sometime in October. As you may recall. Zeke was Issued part of his uniform (fatigue jacket) while he was still under the Dome. The only adjustment necessary was the sewing of his name on the breast pocket. 
ROX MOTTL also joined the Guard in his native Parma in an administrative position. He told mc in Columbus what it was, but all I can remember is that it had something to do w-Ith a certain political party. He planned to work In a few innings of relief for the Ft. Knox Indians if the supply of strawberry Ice cream held out. 
\^R N TEOFAX, the well-liked, former propri­etor of **Molher Tcofan's Coffee Lounge," is pres­ently holding forth as a legal ofliccr at Box 44. Ellington AFB, Houston, Texas. He took the Texas Bar, but as of August 14, he had not learned 
Notre Dame 
of the results. He is doing a great deal of trial 
work for the AF, mostly on the defense. He cred­
its his^ knowledge of ancient Grecian trial tactics 
and his ability to get carried away easily for his 
success in holding several sentences down to 25 
years. In a more serious vein, he does feel that 
he is gaining much \'aluable experience. 
RON S.MITH reports from the land of the sky-
blue water tliat he and ED, THE OX, FOX gra­
ciously accepted the hospitality of Texas when they 
attended the wedding of JOHX ROGERS and 
Therese Messina in Dallas on June 15. John was 
somewhat discommoded when he suffered an emer­
gency attack of appcndidtb on the evening before 
the weddmg. However, being the tough Texan 
that he is (N.B., MARIO CISXEROS), the church 
bells tolled as scheduled the next morning. John 
and "Dippy" arc presently at Quantico. Va., 
where John Is attending justice school with the 
U.S..M.C. ROX SMITH abo had a slight brush 
with the hospital as a result of an auto accident, 
but it was not serious enough to prevent his taking 
the Minnesota Bar on. July 15 along with D.AVE 
NAUGHTIX, 
JLM BOOTH wrote mc from 136 South Main St., Tipton, Indiana, and reports that school had its advantages though he enjoys his work in the law office of Floyd Harper. The Indiana Bar will be coming up for him and DOC BLUME In Oc­tober. Jim visited Barbara and LARRY KANE in Cincinnati during the Fourth of July weekend and found Larry somewhat recovered from the ordeal of the Bar, By the way, Larry will cele­brate his birthday on September 27 and TOM MEGARGLE's is on the 25ih of September. Each of them would no doubt appreciate a card. 

Congratulations to KARL GOETHEL for his success on the Wisconsin Bar and also to TED WERNER who passed both the Iowa and Wisconsin Bars. BOB GORMAN is due to wind up his work in Chicago and he and GeneWeve, his bride of June 8, will head for Washington where he will scr\e as clerk for Mr. Justice Tom Clark. Un­fortunately, the "Newsweek" article concerning Supreme Court clerks was published a little early, but considering Bob's editing abilities, he will no doubt be able to bring about a rc\^ion of the article. 
Yours truly is a PV-I in the Army Reserve at­tached to the 779th Engineering Field Maintenance Company as its clerk. I was able to get a clerk­ship after all. I'm pretty well **squared away" into the pattern of weekly meetings. Six months of ADT with the Initial assignment at Fort Knox, Ky.. Is due to bc.inn about the middle of September. Any and all mail from you will be welcomed and can be forwarded when I leave to serve Uncle Sam. 
YOU CAN HELP NOTRE DAME BY 
Sending a personal contribution Submitting names of friends inter­ested in the university Advising N.D. Foundation Office if your company has a 'plan of giving" Informing University of your cor­poration's 'areas of interest' Remembering the University in your Will or Bequest 
Contributing gifts other than money 
(i.e. paintings, equipment, books, etc.) Naming the University as a benefici­ary in your insurance policy Listing names and addresses of Foun­dations in your community 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
Cleveland, Ohio Oct. 15, 1957 
Fellow Alumni: 

Having been blessed with Ii-ish anccstiy, naturally I am often reminiscent and recall some twenty-nine years ago when I would walk to my room in the old gymnasium from dinner in the then new dining hall. I was invariably moved by a deep embracing sense of gratitude for the-privilege of being a Notre Dame man. As you know, I never claimed to be either poet or minstrel, but, nevertheless, my Gaelic heart was always filled with song for my University. 
Today that song is still there, muted a bit because of age, but Just as melodious, just as sincere and now re-scored a bit with some new notes of appreciation for the great honor you have bestowed upon me by choos­ing me as your President. 
It is not an enviable assignment, to follow a man so capable, forceful and energetic as my predecessor, Joe O'Neill, nor is it eas)' to fill the pattern set by his predecessors, but I have counted heavily on my zeal and gratitude to do a commendable job for my University and you. 
The Alumni Board has been keenly interested in ever)' activity of the University. You know about the move to increase and round out our faculty and of the expansion of the physical properties of our campus. The rising cost of educating students today, tlie increasing number of applicants for admission, our athletic situation and many other problems and circumstances have had our full consideration. They were resolved for the prime purpose of a greater Notre Dame. 
At our meetings we have had tlie advice and counsel of many of our good priests, especially Father Hes-burgh, Father Joyce and the ever young Father John Cavanaugh. Of course, I would be remiss in my duties if I failed to give due recognition to and acknowledge the almost infallible guidance of our esteemed.Secretary, Jim Armstrong. Without him we could not function. VVhile we have not always been in accord on the sub­jects or issues at hand, we have been mutually agreed on our premise — to help unselfishly our University. 
I believe all our Notre Dame men have been recipients of many benefits, tangible and intangible, due to the simple fact diat they are Notre Daine men. I also believe that as a result of these benefits we have in­curred certain obligations to our Alma Mater, especially if we expect her to remain one of our great Univer­sities. The most vital need of Notre Dame right now is the building of the new Moreau Seminary in which young men, who have been called to serve God with our dedicated priests, will receive their training. 
The building of this new seminary is an immediate necessity as the present outmoded seminary is grossly inadequate and crowded to over double its capacity. Room must be made for these young men who are will­ing to make every sacrifice and ask so little in return. I am confident that all you loyal alumni will respond generously with your prayers and financial assistance. 
Our Notre Dame is a great school — we have as fine a faculty as can be procured. AVe have a magnificent and beautiful campus alive with young exemplar)' Notre Dame men. We have our dedicated Fathere and Brothers of Holy Cross—we have that great indefinable spirit that thrilled me thirty years ago and still makes me grateful for being a Notre Dame man. 
Sincerely, 
\y^' 
J. PATRICK CANNY, President 
fKINTCD AT Ave MARIA PRESS 










