The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

I kno^r you're there 
Anotim' missivefinom our hallowed chamber is at hand and—as yam i 
fmn the "Alumni Ask" section—the last issue evoked quite a bit of i 
most (A whidi was negative. It never ceases to amaze us here on ttis cad tbtt 
most of the comment we do receive about tbc magazine, the Uuivenity at 
gennal, student activities and just about anytiiing dae idating to MD • 
negative. 
It somdiow makes you wonder vriiether you're dcMng a lousy job of < municating or whether there is in reality a great silent majority diat | agrees with the way things are progressing hne and simply chooses not to ta^nsa that sentiment Being an eternal c^timist, I prefer to fo aioag widi die latter line of thought 
I know you're out there someiriiere, those of you ¥iio dont dunk die ^aoe has gone to pot and aren't quite yetrra^ to sell us aU down die river. I know you may not agree in toto with everydiing diat takes place here. or with the way the place is run. But at the same time , I know you understand what NtMre Dame stands for and that it matt chanfe as a university or become stagnant I know you're having some diiBeulty rdating to the student generation of today, as.are many of us. But I also kaosr you realize they are your sons and dau^ters and brodiers and stsleis and that you, as I, realize that most of vdiat diey 8a.y and do is not iirrspwiubie hot is based on sincere, though sometimes misguided, conviction. 
I know you worry that ND may be losing some of the chaiaclei and tradition you were witness to and helped fixge. But I also know yoa vahie rdevance and meaning above tradition and that you realize the UtataHf/ has been entrusted to eminendy qualified. Christian men who are dong dieir utmiost to insure that it becomes an even greater center of Cadicriic education. 
I could go on, but these are some 6L the things I know about yoa oat diere—you who are aware that we're not perfect but somdiow love, bdieve in and are dedicated to ND and what it stands for. Yes, I know yoolre out there. Someday I hope to hear fnun you. 
Widi those thou^ts in mind, I offier anodier issue of the ALUMNUS in the bdief that it reflects Notre Dame today. 
May I also take this opportunity oo behalf of the entire staff to vridi all members of the Notre Dame community a happy and htriy hididay 
Tom SiiUivan 
MiiMging Editor 
CONTENTS 
Uiivcnity p. 1 CUhB pk 33 
J^ortB p. 8 GndwNe Stteob. ..... . p. 3< 
Vqrdniogical Sorvkcs ... . p. 10 On RecMd p. 39 
Cbas News p. 14 Sfok. p. 43 
AlmnniAsk p. 44 
-:<4j 
VoL47 No.8 DeccaAcr, 19C9 
loMS D. Cooaer ' » EzzcumE Suanwr ALUMNI Assocunoii 
IGCIIKI E . Jocdan '6B ASSISTAMT SnaETJUtY ALDIOn ASSOOATIOH 
John P. Thurin '59 EDCTOK Tom Sullivaa '66 MANMUNO EUTOK Sudra Loosfoote 
ASSISTANT EomK 
CanliBe Hanibaiger BiO Mitchdl '71 Jobn SIcDennott '70 
EHTOUAL ASSISTANTS 
M. Bruce Hailan '49 CHIET PBoTOOurHa 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OFHCERS Richard A. Rosenthal >54 HONOCAKY niESnCHT Lranaid H. Skoglund '38 nzsnKNT EdHurd G. Cantwdi '24 VicE-nosmzNT Edwaid B. FitipMridc Jr. '54 
Vicz-nasneHT John J. Reidr '27 Vicz-nxsniENT 
James D. Cooner '59 EzzcunvE ScoiErAitv 
DIBECTOSS TO 197* 
Edward G. Cantwell '24 (PUBUC RELATIONS AND DEVELomENT), 700 Binns Blvd., Columbus, Ohio 43204 
Edwaid B. Fitzpatiiil Jr. '54 (STUDENT AF­FAIBS), Wishing Well Farm, Old Brook­viUe, N.Y. 11545 
John J. Rddr '27 (ACADEMIC AnAns), 11850 Edgcwater Dr., Lakewood, Ohio 44107 Richard A. Rosenthal '54, P.O. Box 200, South Bend, Ind. 46616 Leonard H. Skoglund '38 (ATHLETIC, SENATE RELATIONS), 426 Dover Ave., LaGrange Park. m. 60525 
DnECTOKSTO 1971 
W. Jerome Kane '38, P.O. Box 3707, SeatUe, Wash. 98124 Walter H. Langford '30, 1315 Otsego St., South Bend, Ind. 46617 Donald F. O'Brien '42, 1113 Rocky River Rd., Houston, Tex. 77027 Fiands J. Wilson '28, 6105 Howe St., 

RttdMu^, Pa. 15206 MKECTOBS TO 1972 Roiiert A. Eikins '47, P.O. Box 546, Buhl, 
Idaho 83316 Jobn T. Maimian '56, 3917 Broadwar, Kansas Gtr. Mo. 64111 Frank L. UcGian '52, 900 BMg., Ftoniaao Bewh, Fh. 3S062 Robert L. McGoldiick >56, 15 Dmiy Lane, WeM Haitibnl, Cona. 06117 Leooaid H. Tow 'S7, 64 W. 4di St., Brii ^ port, Vn. 19405 
1969 Notre Duae Aunnnw, XTahostr oC Notre Dame, aU i%hta reserved. iCepraduction in whole or in part without written pemui­sioo is prohibited. 
The Notre Daae ALUMHDS is published aHmthljr, except Janoarr, March, Mxjr, Angost and Novonber, hj line TTmversitr of Notre Dame. Secoiid.dass postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46S56. 

Going to Cotton Country 
Per the above wire copy, Notie 
Dame ended 44 years of suspense in 
mid-November when the University 
announced it had accepted a bid inviting the Fighting Irish football team to play in the 1970 Cotton Bowl game in Dallas, Tex., against the Southwest Conference champion. 
The announcement was made by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, executive vice-president of the Uni­versity and chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics, and came following the team's seventh win of the year, a 38-20 thrashing of Georgia Tech. The aimouncement constitutes a revision of University policy which has prevented the Irish from participating in postseason play since the fabled Four Horsemen led the way to a 27-10 conquest of 
Stanford in the 1925 Rose Bowl. 
In making the aimouncement, Fr. Joyce noted that athletes in all other ND varsity sports have the oppor­tunity to engage in postseason NCAA play-offs and that many of the football coaches and players have been participating in postseason games on an individual basis. 
"The crucial conaderation," Fr. Joyce said, "was the urgent need of the University for funds to finance minority student academic programs and scholarships. ND's share of bowl game proceeds will be dedicated to this pressing need." 
Fr. Joyce also indicated that the change in bowl policy resulted from recommendations made by the 
University's Committee oo Finamdal Aid and Schidaiships and the Board of Directors of the Notre Dame .: Ahimni Assn. Ife said those requests were subsequently acted iqMm favor­ably by tbc faculty board in coiitnd of athletics; Rev. Theodne M. Hesburgh CSC, Umvcfsity Resident; and the Executive Committee of tfie Univenity's Board of Trustees. 
The F^icy shift evoked consider­able re^onse acrosstiK nation, and overall reaction was fsvonUe. Ticket Manager Don Bouifud rqwited that he was inundated widitid»t re­quests shmtiy after the announce­mmt was made and fbat jeogkntat so far as to send Uank dMcks widi their requests. Ilie Sforts Ltfionna­tion Office also repocted receiving. 
Father Joyce making the announcement. 
considerable afiSrmative response the day the aimouncement was made. 
At a press conference late on the day the aimouncement was made. Field Scovell, vice-president of the Cotton Bowl and chairman of the se­lection committee, said that ND's football tradition and fine program plus the quality of this year's team made the Irish the No. 1 choice of the committee. He added that as soon 

as ND indicated interest in a bond 
game the Cotton Bowl "pipdine" un­
mediately contacted ND otBaaHa. 
Athletic Director Ed "Mooat" 
Kiause and Head Coach Ara Par-
se^iian had eariier indicatBd tbty 
would favor participating in a bawl 
game. Paiseghian was notified on Nov. 
16 of the Cotton Boml'a interest and 
had the team vote <m the idea that 
ni^ t Previously that wedc, the team 
had voted to go to a haml game 
should a bid be forthcoming. 

During the press conference Fr. Joyce was asked if ND had received any other bowl invitations. He re­plied in the negative, althougji pecu­lation had it that the Univeistty bad been approached by the Sugar and Orange Bowls. He was also asked if ND would still have chosen the Cot­ton Bowl if other bids would have come. The smiling aflBrmative an­swer brought a "Well said. Father" from Mr. Scovell. 
Coach Parseghian said at the con­ference, "The opportunity to play either Texas or Arkansas is appeal­ing." Cocaptains Bob Olson and Mike Oriard concurred. "We're very happy with this chance to be cm the sec­ond Notre Dame team ever to par­ticipate in a bowl game." 
Numerous tours and festivities will 
Ara and "Moose" with Cotton Bowl official. 

be a part of the big New Year week­
end in Dallas. The ND Alumni Assn. is sponsoring a tour, with groups leaving from New York, Chicago and Los Angeles, and will maintain A HOSPrrALITY AND INFORMA­TION SUrre IN THE FAIRMONT HOTEL IN DALLAS. 
Practice plans for the team have been finalized and will include work­outs on the campus until Dec. 19 when the boys will head for home and Christmas relaxation. They will reconvene in Dallas Dec. 26 for the final week of preparation for the big game. Team headquarters will be the Marriott Motor Inn in Dallas. 
Help! It was just four short weeks ago that I was looking ahead 
The Notre Dame gub fat^^mmhhr,^*M to Nov. 23. That was the date that my first football season as ticket manager would be over. I would introduce my­
-' -piiBeenli«r-.%.'Sic--s55j.r-^^ "•'"•'-5"^ 
self to my wife again and setde into the relative peace and 
:|pE OFFICIAL wymE'sm^bamm^jki^icalm of hockey and badcetball. Not so! What had been a smooth christening has suddenly turned into a baptian } iifbr Notre Dame etamri of fire — Cotton Bowl-style. As the visiting school in the New Year's Day classic, Notre Dame will receive an allotment of only 12,000 tickets. Hence, it was necessary to limit the distribution of apfdication to alumni in the following 18 state: Ala­bama, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, Oklahonfa, Tennessee, Texas and Utah. The implication is limited to a maxi­mum of four tickets. In addition, several Notre Dame clubs outside the dis­tribution area have requested (as of Nov. 26) tickets and plan to conduct charter flints to the Lone Star state for alumni in their areas. Presidents of the following clubs may be omtacted for information: Buffalo, Cleveland, Colum­bus (Ohio), Detroit, Grand R^ids, Los Angeles, Milwau­kee, Philadelpliia, San Francisco, Virginia and Washing­ton, D.C. And to make sure that every alumnus has an oppor­tunity to see die Irish in action, the Alumni Assn. has arranged an oflBcial Cottcm Bowl tour, with departure points from CSiicago, Los Angeles and New York. 
Donald E. BouflEard Jr. Ticket Manager 


O'Brieii heads alumni 
Donald F. O'Brien '42, an account 
executive in the advertising agency 
business for the past 23 years, was 
elected president of the ND Alumni 
Assn. at the fall meeting of the 
National Board of Directors on 
campus in October. He will assume 
his new duties on Jan. 1, 1970. 
Bom in Portsmouth, N.H., but 

reared in Tulsa, Okla., O'Brien has 
an ND-tinted ancestry. His grand­
father graduated from the University 
in 1865; two great-great uncles 
joined the Congregation of the Holy 
Cross at ND in the 18SOs; and 
O'Brien's younger brother, Pat, 
received his degreefirom the school 
in 1960. 
O'Brien, who received an A.B. degree, magna cum laude, with a philosophy major and an English minor, enlisted in the Navy in February, 1942, and reported for active duty after his college gradua­tion. He was a member of the Navy's "Flying Irish H" and a World War II carrier pilot. Later he commanded a jet fighter squadron in the Naval Air Reserve and retired as a captain. 
The Houston office of McCann-Erickson, Inc., an international advertising agency where he is a vice-president and account supervisor, has been O'Brien's home for the past 19 years. For several years he held a national assignment on the agency's Humble Oil account. One of his current assignments is supervising tourist advertising for the state of Texas. O'Brien coordinates teaching of the marketing sequence for the Houston Institute of Advanced Advertising Studies, and a few years ago he served as regional chairman of the board of governors of the American Assn. of Advertising Agencies. 
The president-elect of the Alumni Assn. served as president of the ND Club of Houston from 19SS-S7 and was named its "Man of the Year" in 1964. He was elected to the national Alumni Board in 1968 and was appointed a member of the University's public relations advisory committee the same year. 
The father of four children, O'Brien is married to the former Madeline Griffin, a native of Tulsa and a graduate of the College of St Teresa at Winona, Minn. Three of the 
O'Brien children, including a son  
who served with the Army's 101 st  
Airborne Division in Vietnam, are  
now attending the U. of Texas.  One  
daughter is married to Lt Larry  
Gruber '68, now in special forces  
training.  
O'Brien accepted his forthcoming  
role of leadership in the association  
with zeal, stating that "it's an  
awesome  and exciting challenge to  
represent my fellow alumni in  
a united effort to advance the cause  
of Our Lady's University.  
"More than ever during these times  
of great change in our nation, in the  
world, in the Church and in our  
University, we need Our Lady's prayers with us."  Don (ysritn, prtndtnt-tUctND Alumni Assn.  of th*  

Institate attraete 25 0 
Over 2S0 high school students from all of people as human beings, to get 
SO states attended ND's third them to think in social patterns." annual National Student Leadership Several ND faculty members Institute Nov. 14-16 at the Center for delivered addresses during the con­Continuing Education. 
ference. Dr. D. Chris Anderson, Sponsored by a student organization 
associate professor of psychology, designed to foster involvement and discussed "On Becoming a Person"; social action, the Robert F. Kennedy Dr. George N. Shuster, fecial Institute, the weekend conference was assistant to the president of the directed by Rev. Thomas E. Chambers Univenity, addressed the groiq> on CSC. The Kennedy Institute provided "Student Responsibility"; Rev. Charies the financial means for 20 of the E. Sheedy CSC deliveied the con­student leaders to attend the cluding address, titled "How to Be aconference. 
Dynamic Leader." Joba Brademas, The main emphasis of the con­congressman from Indiana's third ference was on communications skills district, gave the keynote address, 
and empathy, according to John Mtoz, director of the RFK Institute. "We "The Ciy for Leatfership." wanted the young leaders to be aware In addition to the major addresses, that there is more to leadership than the ccMiferenoe Included several group debate and rhetoric," he explained. discussions and paneb whh ND "We wanted them to become aware student leaders. 
High school students gathered on the ATI) campus for Itadership conference. 

All essay 
"Five nationally prominent men were present at the law drive dinner in Chicago were: {l-r) H. V. Phalin,Dean W.B. haw-recently elected to the Notre Dame 
less, Edward B. Williams and David M. Thornton. 

Lair drive eontinues 
By mid-November the ND Law Center Program had generated capital commitments totaling $2,084,479, according to an announcement by National Chairman David M. Thorn­ton, Tulsa, Okla. 
The nationwide, $6-miIiion fund­raising effort, planned to double the size of the ND Law School's student body, faculty and library and house them in a striking five-floor Law Center, was launched at a campus dinner Sept 19. 
Thornton said the campaign is be­ing conducted principally among the 3,300 members of the ND Law Assn., attorneys and judges who hold an undergraduate or law degree or both from the University. He stressed that the Law School development effort is integrated with the University-wide SUMMA program inaugurated in 1967. 
During October, Dean William B. Lawless and James W. Frick, vice-president for public relations and de­velopment, addressed Law Center dinners in 12 cities where personal solicitation programs are now under way. Joining them as speakers at various times were the program's national leaders: Thornton; Vice-Chairmen John W. Dorgan, Chicago, 111.; Joseph A. Tracy, New York, N.Y.; Camille Gravel, Alexandria, La.; and George B. Morris Jr., Detroit, Mich., president of the ND Law Assn. 
The Law Center Program is now under way in the following cities under the leadership of the chairmen indicated: Buffalo—F. James Kane; Chicago—^M. James Moriarty; Cleve­land—^Alphonse A. Sommer Jr.; Denver—^John D. Ryan; Detroit— Louis H. Bridenstine; Fort Wayne— Martin P. Torborg; Indianapolis — John I. Bradshaw; Los Angeles— J. R. Mullin Jr.; Milwaukee—John J. Burke and John D. Cahill; New Yoric-New Jersey—^James F. Dwyer and John A. Pindar; Saint Louis—^Robert 
E. McGIynn; South Bend—James F. Thomburg and Edward J. Gray; and Washington, D.C.—George T. Mobille. 
All ND lawyers will receive the Law Center Program brochure in the near future, Thornton noted. He also said that dinner or luncheon meetings may be scheduled in additional cities. 

Father Moore dies 
Rev. Philip S. Moore CSC '24, a former vice-president and dean at ND, died Nov. 18 in the Holy Cross House at the age of 69. 
A member of the University com­munity for more than 30 years, Fr. Moore retired in 1966 after serving ei^ t years as academic assistant to the president of ND. He served as vice-president of academic affairs from 1952 to 1958 and was dean of the Graduate School from 1944 to 1952. 
Fr. Moore, a native of Wabash, Ind., received his bachelor's degree bom ND, studied theology for four years at the Catholic U. of America and was ordained to the priesthood in 1928. His M.A. in philosophy, also from Catholic U., was awankd in 1929. Before joining the ND philosophy department in 1933, Fr. Moore pursued graduate mediaeval studies in Paris for four yean. In 1936, the same year that his doctorate was awarded, he founded the Publications in Mediaeval Studies. He was chairman of the Department of Philosophy from 1942 to 1948. 
Since his retirement, Fr. Mome assisted in the archives of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross and was involved in special projects for the University, including the writing of a history of the ND Law Scbofd. 
Board of Trustees by the Fellows of the University. One of them is Bayard Rustin, a veteran civil rights leader and executive director of the A. Philip Randolph Institute, New York, 
N.Y. Mr. Rustin is the University's first black trustee, and his election has generated considerable interest in the ND family. This essay, "The Myths of the Black Revolt," gives his insights into one of contemporary America's most pressing problems. It is reprinted here with the permission of the institute and Ebony magazine." 

The myths of the blaek revolt 
by Bayard Rustin 
Inevitably during a period of social turmoil there develop conflicting political strategies for change. These strategies will be based on varied emotional responses to daily events as well as on fundamentally dif­ferent philosophies. 
Such intellectual conflict is occurring today in the black com­munity, and I think this is all to the good. The debate may be charac­terized by great emotion and rhetoric, but ultimately it will serve the educational ftmction of refining theories, delineating positions and stimulating further dialogue. 
A full-fledged ideological and 

Rev. Philip Moore CSC 
political debate has not taken place in the black community since the moniunental exchanges between 
W.E.B. DuBois and Booker T. Washington which occurred over a half-century ago. The intensity of today's dialogue is an indication of the aroused political awareness of black people and an overall heighten­ing of aspirations and militancy. As a result of these developments, there is enormous potential to build a movement for progressive social reform. But this potential can also lead to consequences of a reactionary nature for it is in itself a politically neutral phenomenon. An informed black militancy, based on a clear analysis of the economic and social situation of Negroes both in the South and in the Northern ghettos, an identification of the major institutions which can provide blacks with the maximum power and lever­age in their struggle for equality, and a political strategy that can influence these institutions to serve the needs of the poor—such a militancy will move our society in a progressive and equalitarian direction. But a militancy that is based on frustration, withdrawal and a desire to simplify or avoid reality rather than transform it will unintentionally aid the right, isolate blacks and destroy the possibility of solving the problems which afflict our nation. 
It is with the hope of furthering dialogue so as to encourage the emergence of an effective, program­matic militancy that I offer here a critique of certain myths that have recently become popular among some blacks. Let me be clear that by "myths" I am not referring to those allegorical stories by which a people or nation interprets its history and beliefs, but to a series of concepts that derive from wish fulfillment or a misperception of political reality and which can thus mislead black people in our struggle to achieve equality. Such myths deserve serious critical apprais^. 
The myth of black unity 
The myth of black unity is put forth by those who perceive race as the dominant factor in determining the pcriitical consciousness of a group. I do not deny that race is one such factor, particularly in the case of Negroes. To a degree, black people have a common heritage of slavery, although one out of every nine Negroes before the Civil War was a 
(continued on page 40) 


COLUMN 
Some relevant people 
by Richard W. Conklin Director of Public Information 
Relevancy is one of the shibboleths 
of our day. 
Students invoke it with little recog­nition of the fact that a good deal of education should be geared to convincing them that the things they believed were relevant when they arrived on campus might actually be irrelevant. (As Jesuit Old Testa­ment scholar John L. McKenzie once put it in a course description requested of him by student evalu­ators, "I am not trying to make the Prophets relevant; they are relevant, whether we think so or not") 
Because relevancy is a key part of the definition of news, the professor whose teaching and research has an easily seen connecti<m with contemporary problems—bom pollution to the theology of peace —inevitably gets a share of the public spotlight. As an administrator who seeks hard to bring public attention to academic activity on campus, I am not about to shim relevant scholarship—such professors deserve the attention they get 
Nevertheless, I am painfully aware of the large number of persons on campus who exist outside the periphery of the public spotlight They are important simply as men and tlieir work, and they provide the solid substratum of scholarship and administrative finesse upcm which the place rests. I asked informants in each college for their nominations of such people, to which I added a few of my own. The list is not comprehensive; it is suggestive. (Where quotes appear, the words belong to my anonymous consultants.) Let's hear it, then, for the following All-Academic Team: 
Milton Burton, director of Notre Dame's Radiation Laboratory. A pioneer in the field of radiation chemistry. Burton runs a widely respected Atomic Energy Commis­sion facility. 
Bernard D. Cullity, professor of 
metalloigical engineering and "a leader in mapietics, andmr <rf a sig­nificant tome in the field, and an industrious reseaicber." 
Michael A. DeCicco. an assistant 
professor of mechanical engineering 
whose fencing coaching record 
rivals Aia's and whose academic 
difecti(Mi of student-athletes is x 
sensitive job in a diflScuh area. 
LeClmr H. Eetts, professes of finance and business economics. "^Id­scho<d teacher, daily quioes included, and widely read. A senior professor who is an excellent ccmtrast to younger bucks." 
Canon Astrik L. Gabriel, director of Notre Dame's Mediaeval bstitute. A man who ddig^ts in meticulous historical investigaticm (and even has one sharp eye open for "relevant" comparisons). His reputation in his specialty of mediaeval education is intemationaL 
George F. Hentdon, professor of chemistry. Portrayed as a beaker boy in the lajwratwy of Fr. Nieuidand in the South Cafeteria mural, Hennicm has becmne "cme of the best science teachers at Notre Dame while carrying on Fr. Nieuwland's work in acetylene chemistry." 
Ruey-wen Liu, professor of elec­trical engineering and "one of the pioneers in nmlinear ^stem theory and known around the woAd for his ccHitributions." 
John J. Lyon, assistant professcx' in the General Program of Liberal Studies. "A historian of. the 19th century, specializing in the religion and science controversy." 
The late Rev. Thonua T. McAvoy, noted historian of the American Catholic Chureh and Notre Dame archivist who died July S. In a day when a good deal of amateurishly ^ b interpretation of the Church is being done, Fr. McAvoy's posthumously published A History of the Catholic Church in the United States is a timely reminder of his scholarly integrity. 
Robert E. Rodes Jr., professor of law. "Now at work <m ibe second of three vcriumes that will be a monumental study of church-state relatitMis £rom histnical and legal per^ectives." 
Kenneth M. Sayre, associate professM' of {diiloscq^. "His im­portant woA in the artificial models for inteDigenoe is not well known." 
Boledaw Sobocinski, professm- of phikKt^hy whose impeccable grasp of ^mb( ^ logic supports Notre Dame's 

(continued on pt^ 43) 
Life Council, officially became effec­
tive on Nov. 26 with Fr. Hesburgh's 





Rule invoked 
Five ND students have been expelled and five others suspended in the first ^plication of the 15-minute rule con­cerning demonstrations outlined last February by University President Theodore M. Hesburgh. At press time, alllO of the disciplined students were in the process of appealing the action taken against them. 
The application of the rule stemmed from a Nov. 18 demonstration by about ISO persons, including a large number of spectators, protesting scheduled interviews on campus be­tween ND students and recruiters from the Dow Chemical Co. and the Central Intelligence Agency. A group of about IS persons, including the dis­ciplined 10, an ND alumnus and a nun, locked arms and blocked the door to the Placement Bureau office where the interviews were being conducted. 
The decision to invoke the rule was made by Dean of Students Rev. James Riehle CSC, who warned the demon­strators that if they did not.disperse, the 15-minute rule would become ef­fective. "You've forced my hand on this. I have no alternative," Fr. Riehle explained. After the IS min­utes, Fr. Riehle and Security Director Arthur J. Pears began collecting identification cards, a move which involves immediate suspension. After another five minutes, those demon­strators who remained at the door of the office were informed that they were expelled from the University. 
While the University was drawing up papers for an injunction against the obstructive demonstrations. Pears informed St Joseph County Sheriff Elmer Sokol that assistanoe might be needed later in the day. Sakai told the ALUMNUS he then notified the. South Bend Police Department and asked for "14 to IS officers" to stand by to supplement his own men. A mix-up in communication occurred, however, and eight ptriioemen, equipped with riot helmets and wooden clubs, arrived on campus in two patrol cars and a paddy wagon, assembling behind the Administration Building. At the request of Univer­sity officials, Sokol told the officers to leave the campus. 
The court injunction against five individuals was served the next morn­ing, but further confrontation was avoided when the recruiters cancelled interviews and left campus. Fr. Riehle said that it is standard procedure for CIA recruiters to leave when there is expression of dissent Philip Faccenda, special assistant to the-president said that the Dow recruiter told him the interviews were not pro­ductive but that he would return to campus at another date. 
The disciplined students were given five days to appeal the action taken against them. All 10 entered appeals and on Nov. 26 a preliminary hear­ing was held before the recently inaugurated University Court At the proceedings, the students were in­formed that they could choose whether to have their ^peals heard before the new court or before the older Appeals Court The University Court part of the new judicial code pre­pared by a conunittee of the Student 
Placement Bureau protest. 

signature. The court is composed of six members—two representatives firom the student body, two ftom the faculty and two firom the administra­tion—and has the authority to reverse action taken by the dean of students. The Appeals Court composed of three persons, one student one faculty member and one administrator, could only recommend action to the dean of students. The students were given their coice of courts because the action involved occurred before the University Court had been ofiicialiy approved. The preliminary hearings adjourned until Dec. 2, when the stu­dents were to have decided which court to ^peal to and whether they wished to be heard as individuals or as a group. 
The incident stirred considerable reaction on campus. An editorial in the student newspa^r, the Observer, entitled "Guy DeSapio Commentary," supported the action taken by the University against the demonstrations. DeSa^io is editor of the newspaper. Radio station WNDU conducted surveys about the discipline. In the Audience Action Line, which any<Hie may call to express his view, 452 people responded. Of those, 89 per cent favored the stand of the admin­istration in the expulsion and suspen­sion of the students, and 11 per cent were opposed. In a random sampling of ND students, WNDU found that all but one of the 80 students called expressed an opinion, backing the administration action by almost 2 to 1. Sixty-two per cent agreed with the stand, 32 per cent opposed it and 6 per cent were undecided. 
Twelve ND faculty members signed a petition (^posing the University action. Calling upon the president of ND to end University-sponsored re­cruitment, the 12 asked Fr. Hesburgh "to quash all civil and University proceedings against participants in the demonstrations and to begm the re­form of the University to oppose radier than to serve the outrages per­petuated by our society at home and abroad." 
Probably one of the most attention-attracting denxHistrators was Sister Joanne Malone, a 28-year-oId member of the CKder of the Sisters of Loretto. Clad in lay clothing, Sr. Joanne voiced objections to Dow's policies regarding the production of such war materiel as napalm and to the in­volvement ot the ClA in natitmal and international espi<Miage. 
STUDENT VIEW 
Looking baek 
by WiUiam J. MitcheU '71 
Nine months after its publication and but a few days after its first application, Fr. Hesburgh's policy on demonstrations begs a reassessment by the community it endeavors to serve. 
As 10 students plan their appeal of the rule's initial invocation—which has resulted in expulsion for five of them and suspension for the other five—the rest of us must examine the heart of the rule and ask what it means to the people it affects. 
Among the people it affects, in addition to the dissenters who cross it, are the authorities who use it 
Fr. Hesburgh's policy deals for the most part with the form ot dissent— which is, to be sure, important in any examination of the established order and its relationship with those who would change it. But it is self-defeating and futile to insist on a particular form without having sought to understand the substance of that dissent. 
The search for substance is a search for personal moral responsi­bility. It is a difficult search in a world so full of interdependent authority structures that responsibility and guilt are easily and often unconsciously acquiesced or gen­eralized into personal meaninglessness. 
It is not easy for an authority of the established order—^who is sincere in his belief in that order— to undertake such a search, open to the possibility that he is guilty of the moral irresponsibility the dissenters charge. But the man who is serious in his search for truth must always be willing to take the risk of having to admit: "I've been wrong about the things that count." 
The problem with Fr. Hesburgh's policy is that, in its concern with form at the expense of substance, it does not encourage people in authority to effectively open their minds to the message of dissent. In regard to Dow, the dissenters are saying it is objectively and subjectively immoral to cooperate with the recruiting efforts of a company that would condone the manufacture of a gaseous jelly pro­duced expressly to bum the skin off living human beings. In regard to the CIA, the dissenters are saying it is not moral to give assistance to an organization that relies on espionage and murder to seek ends which are morally questionable in themselves. 
Dow and CIA officials, as well as University authorities, have countered those charges with such statements as "A lot of companies make war material" or "The CIA does those things only in the national inteiest" A recollection of the historical context of the Church's inquisition or Hitler's Germany should be enou^ to indicate the hollow ring of such evasions. Man as man is responsible as an individual for what he permits, approves or does. 
While dissenters give witness to the truth they see, the authwities watch their watches—effectively deaf to what is being said. As Fr. Hesburgh said in his letter to ^ce-President Agnew last February, "In a fast-changing society the real crisis is not one of authority but a crisis of vision that alone can inspire great morale in any society." Exactly. 
It is a vision that must be found beneath the surface of a self-ri^teous demonstration or a self-righteous rule, at the heart of the matter. Would the dissenters stand with arms locked if they had been more thou^tful and imaginative in their attempt to communicate truth? Would the authorities enforce a IS-minute rule if they had sen'ously questioned their own cooperation with attempts to recruit members of this conununity for the likes of Dow and CIA? Both actions—^the blocking of the door and the enforcement of the rule— were mistakes. 
But neither the 10 disrupters nor the University officials who enforced the rule should be expelled from Notre Dame. Both sides have succeeded in raising important ques­tions. If answers are now to be sought, though, both sides must cease being sides. And that is impossible only if community is impossible. "We will live together as brothers," wrote the late Dr. Martin Luther King, "or perish together as fools." 
For dissenters, this will mean a return to faith in the power of truth to move men's minds and hearts, not just their bodies. For University authorities, it will mean examining their personal moral responsibility in the substance focused on by dissent—before they consider enforcing any rulesregarding the form of that dissent. 

BHMEFS 
ACC 

Afifan produced by Elkibe Aidiitecto 
on the design and nie <rf ND's 

Athletic and Coavocatioii Cenler has 
won two 1969 Indulrial FOm Awanh 
in national comprtilion. The 13­

mlnutefifan. "A Worid Under One 
Roo^" was judged one of die 11 beat 
public Tdation motion pictnia 
produced during tlie year and abo 
received die special award in the low-
budgetfifan categoiy. 

V Fetm eii€d 

Dr. Thomas S. Fern, chairman oi the University's Depaitnmit ot Axt, was recently awarded a $100 prize for his woA "Round and Square XVF at the second annual ait exhibit of Nazaredi College in Kalamazoo, Mich. 
New 
An Industrial Associates Program, designed to further mutually beneficial intdlectual contacts between ND and business4nihistiy, was inaugurated recently at the University. Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, vice-president for research and ^onsored programs, will direct the new program, which is designed to <^ier service to firms desiring contact widi the various departments and faculty members at ND. 

mtmMmm 
A combination law-business piogram scheduled to begin next Stpitaba was announced in November by Deans ^dliam & Landess of die Uw Sduol and Thomas T. Muipfay <rf die Cdl ^ of Business Admini^ntioa. The four-year postbaccalaiueate progrun will lead to two degrees: Master ^ Busi­ness Adnunistration, awarded at die end ai die dmd year, and die Doctw of Juiiqpnidence, awarded at die Old of die fourth year. 
IJttU Joe, Big Mike, a new dimension and the indomitiAU Arm help m^t it maotker year of . 



The poirer and the glory 
As the songwriters say, "it was a very good year," but "the best is yet to come." 1969 was indeed another very good year on the gridiron for the Fighting Irish, but the best still lies ahead — the challenge and grand opportunity of "doing in" one of the nation's top teams in the Cotton Bowl on Jan. 1. 
Although the schedule, which is made up at least 10 years in advance, produced only four real tests, the Irish came away with an admirable 8-1-1 record and extended their membership in the nation's top 10 to six-strai^t campaigns—since YOU­KNOW-WHO came to town. 
The season got under way on the rig^t note, a 36-14 win over hapless Northwestern. Then occurred what has become the annual stumbling block. Purdue and Mike Phipps overcame the Irish for the third year in succes­sion, 28-14—^Test No. 1. The Blue and Gold recovered in fine style the firilowing week to blitz old rival Michigan State 42-28—Test No. 2. Southern California came East boast­ing another OJ., but ND put the skids to Mr. Davis and barely missed doing the same to John McKay's Trojans. The 14-14 tie was a real thriller down to the last field goal that hit the crossbar—Test No. 3. 
The Irish then disposed of Army 45-0, Tulane 37-0 and Navy 47-0 before Pittsburgh scored on the de­fense, but they didn't score enough— the score was 49-7. Georgia Tech offered stiff resistance fiom the stands but not too much on the fidd as ND pushed the Ramblin' Wiedc around 38-20. The Air Force Academy flew into town with a hi^-powered offiease to set the stage for a battle of toudh­downs which never came off, due in large part to two very stingy defenses. But the Falcons did give the Irish a down-to-the-wire strug^ b^ore the home forces notched ND win No. 516, 13-6—Test No. 4. 
The season bore witness to a pleas­ant surprise on offense and a deCmsive unit that lived up to expectations. The rebuilt offense that started the year minus nine starters firam the previous team produced 334 pmnts, a figure which surprised even YOU­KNOW WHO, who admitted before the season that he Mt die Irish would have a grind-it-out offense. The attack unit proved to have real bal­ance, producing 2905 yanb overiand and 1584 via the aerial lanes. 
The defmse, a unit binding six sophomores with scHne vary aUe veterans, did its job wdl all year, limiting 10 opponents to an avenge of 
11.3 points per game. The rock-ribbed hcriders of the fort gave up only 14 touchdowns (six pasno^ eight rushing) and held ^ oppni­tion to 218.7 yards per cmlest 
Every season stars emerge to lead the battle, and this season was no exception. Junior quaitnbadc Joe Theismann spearheaded die potent tAr fense, along with running bada Ed Ziegler, Denny Allan, Bill Barz and Andy Huff. Tom Gatewood and Dew^ Poskon manned the receiver corps well, and the men ^ibo were "where the action is" included linemen Jim Reilly, Larry Dinardo, Mike OriaAl, Gary Kos, Terry Brennan and Chuck Kennedy. 
"Bobo" Olson, Mike McCoy and Larry Schumacher held the youthful defenders together all season. Names you should be hearing a lot in the years to come include Patulski, Ellis, Swendaen, Kadish, Raterman, Stepaniak and Kelly. 
As for YOU4CNOW-WHO, after six campaigns at the Irish helm his record is 48-8-4, and if that doesn't begin to spcHl you, nothing will. On to Dallas and more of the same! 
ND hockey begins its second year. 
Cold sticks and sizzling nets 
The icemen of Notre Dame are at it again. The Fighting Irish hockey team has embarked on its second varsity season, and if the first one was any indication of things to come, coaches Charles "Lefty" Smith and Tim McNeil could be wearing permanent smiles for the next few years. 
The Irishfinished their initial campaign with a 16-8-3 mark, a record forged by a team consisting of a pair of seniors and 16 sophomores and freshmen. This year Smith and McNeil have scouted up another group of highly talented freshmen to go with last season's whiz kids. Canada, Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan have been the prime spawning grounds for some topnotch skaters who will lead the squad into the teeth of this year's 30-game schedule. 
E>espite the fact that a sizeable group of lettermen return and the new crop of yearlings looks good, the Irish may be hard-put to duplicate last year's feat Seven of the eight teams that administered losses last season are on the docket this year, in addition to such perennial powers as Boston College, Colorado College and Bowling Green. 
The Irish will also participate in two tournaments during the holidays. Dec. 17 and 18 they will journey to the Merrimack Tourney in North Andover, Mass., and Jan. 2 and 3 it's the Nichols Tournament in Buffalo, N.Y. 
Leading the veterans is senior captain Phil Wittliff, who also fills a slot as reserve linebacker on the 
Cotton-Bowl-bound football team. 
The flashy center led the Irish in 
scoring last season with 31 goals in 
24 contests. Also returning is MVP 
Dick Tomasoni, who had a great 
year in the nets, and the squad's 
most exciting skater, Kevin Hoene, 
who racked up 46 points last year. 
Joe Bonk (35 pts.), John Womack 
(26 pts.) and defensemen Mark 
Longar and Jim Morin are also back 
in action. 
Smith says, "We have great depth 
this year. While last season we had 
9 or 10 good players, this time 
around we've got 18 or 19 really 
good boys." 
Coach Smith also feels strongly about a proposal now before the faculty board in control of athletics that would allow ND to join the NCAA Western Hockey Conference. Since 1946 that conference has produced all but three of the national championship teams. It includes Michigan, Michigan State, Denver, Colorado, Minnesota, Wisconsin and North Dakota. 
The ACC nets are swishing regulariy these days because Johnny Dee's sharpshooters are hard at work getting into ND's 72nd basketball season. The Irish mentor heads into his sixth season with a 74-61 record and a talented team which should markedly improve his won-loss percentage. 
Only 27 out of the nation's 700 college basketball teams won 20 or more games last season, and the Fighting Irish squad was one of them (20-7). Needless to say, the ND crew hopes for similar results this campaign, and with a big, strong and fast team the prospects for a repeat performance appear to be good. 
Gone this year are stalwarts Bob Amzen, Bob Whitmore and Dwi^t Murphy, so Dee expects to start five juniors, including Captain Austin Carr, who averaged 24 points per game from his guard position last year—despite a broken bone in his foot that caused him to miss con­siderable action. CoUis Jones (6-7) and Sid Catlett (6-8) will woric the comers, with John Pleick (6-8) at center. The other guard slot is being contested for by Jackie Meehan, Tom Sinnott and senior Mike O'Connell. 
A meatgrinder schedule, recognized as one of the toughest in the land this year, faces the Irish. They meet UCLA, Kentucky, South Canriina, Kansas, New Mexico and St Peters, all expected to befront runners in the national polls. 
Commenting on prospects for the season. Dee says: "We've reached a plateau. This year well move away from the pivot offense that character­ized our team last year and set up with a one-guard, double-stack isolation ofSensc. On defense well try a matching zone along with our man-to-man." 
The Iridi will be niinus the strong outside shooting and some of the mobility they utilized last year but should have more depth and muscle. According to Dee, "Well be more physical than we've been in the past, which should help us on the defensive boards." 
The Irish face one of the toughest schedules in the country, have a date in the Sugar Bowl Tournament and have only two starters returning, but if you talk to Johnny Dee you'd never know it Dee came here six years ago when the Irish were some­what less than mediocre. And now he is "as haH>yright now with the team as I've been in six years." And why shouldn't he be? He's made the Irish a contender for the top 10 in the polls. All of which makes you wonder if, as has been reported, he will return to the practice of law after two more years at the helm. 
Austin CoTT ztrots in. 
The incidence of emotional disorders among college students has been 


Support ivhere it counts 
rising steadily. Four years ago it 
was reported that on a typical college campus, one in 10 students at some time in his college career would suffer emotional disturbance severe enough to require professional assistance. Today the ratio is approxi­mately one in seven, and it seems that this need is still growing, not subsiding. 
Like other universities, Notre Dame has been affected by social pressures, shifting cultural and religious values and by the turmoil which seems to characterize the times. Several years ago, interested groups of faculty and students began to study the effects of these stresses on student life and student mental health needs. They reported their findings to the University administra­tion, and soon after. Dr. Frank J. Braceland, a well-known Catholic psychiatrist, was invited to make a survey for Rev. Theodore Hesburgh. During his memorable visit to ND in the spring of 1967, Dr. Braceland interviewed members of the ad­ministration, faculty and student body. His report represented the best opinions of these groups as well as his own views concerning Notre Dame's need for a mental health facility. 
In September, 1967, the Psycho­logical Services Center was opened, its offices on the third floor of the University infirmary. Ralph F. Dunn CSC, Ph.D., and Charies J. Arens, Ph.D., both clinical psychologists, were named to pioneer this new venture. A year later, Sr. Sara C. Charles MM, M.D., joined the staff. Dr. Charles has the rare distinction of being one of the few nun-psychiatrists in the world. This year another psychologist will be added to the staff. 
The growth of the staff has paralleled the demand for services. In the first year of operation, 150 students were patients at the center. In the 1968-69 school year, we were able to treat 248 students, but, unfortunately, many others had to be turned away. Besides the students who were accepted for treatment, others with less serious problems were seen for one or two brief consultations. Still other students were seen at the request of a University administrator for the evaluation of some particular prob­lem. In these cases, reports were made to the referring official with the student's full knowledge and written 
by Ralph F. Dunn CSC Director, Psychological Services Center 
approval. Confidentiality is the most keystone of any clinical service and 
so we guard it carefully. On the first day the student comes to the center, he meets one of the therapists for a preliminary interview to help him assess the dimensions of his problem. If the therapist feels that further evaluation and possibly psychotherapy are indicated, he arranges for the student to take a small battery of psychological tests. The therapist's report of the inter­view and the test results are then discussed by the staff in their semiweekly case conferences. If the student is accepted for treatment, he is assigned to individual psychotherapy or group psycho­therapy. For most new patients, individual therapy has been the treatment of choice. 
Students come to the center with a wide variety of emotional problems. Very often a student experiences some crisis in his academic work or in his relationship with other students. Others may have distressing concerns about the draft laws, the Vietnam war or drug usage. Such problems can stir up old, unresolved conflicts within the student, and the anxiety generated by such disruption can be severe. Apathy and depres­sion are other emotional problems which frequently trouble students. Sometimes a student will respond to stress with prolonged apathy. He will complain of inability to study and say that he cannot motivate himself to take an interest in any worthwhile activity. He may feel empty, lethargic and intellectually impotent. Some psychiatrists believe that apathy is a defense used by the ego to protect itself from being over­whelmed by the demands of a highly competitive situation. So, when the student finds himself confronted with an academic or social situation 
which seems to be overpowering, he may "drop out" for a while and declare himself a noncontestant in the academic game. He may uncon­sciously feel that if he does not play the game, he cannot be hurt or defeated. Such students sometimes lose a whole semester's work before their plight is discovered. 
If detected soon enough, apathetic students can often be helped to finish the semester with supportive therapy and perhaps a change in class schedule. During the course of treatment, or possibly during a subsequent vacation, the ego may mend and regroup its energies so that 
Group therapy ii one method of treatment 
the student can continue his education without serious difficulty. If apathy is not checked, it can lead to depression. This is a more serious disorder which may totally immobilize the student. Added to his wish to escape the competitive situation are feelings of anger and self-recrimination. These feelings are often vague and diffuse. A depressed student may not be able to respond to therapy in a university setting, and it may become necessary for him to withdraw from school for a while. 
The treatment at the center is primarily oriented toward helping the 
employed at the center. 

student cope successfully with his 
present conflicts. Providing the 
student with support and structure for 
his life strengthens his ego so that 
he can more effectively direct his 
actions toward meaningful life goals. 
With proper reassurance a student 
may learn to dismiss minor 

obsessive thoughts and fears which 
would otherwise hamper his 

functioning. We do not believe that 
it is appropriate for therapy in a 
college mental health center to 
focus on underlying personality dis­
orders. Intensive therapy is often 
disruptive for the student because it 
may deprive him of many defenses which he needs to carry on his daily activities. Such dierapy also requires many more hours than a center such as ours, with responsibil­ity for so many students, could possibly devote to any one individual. 
The center's ego-enhancing approach to psychotherapy is also consistent with its emphasis on short-term treatment Our experience over the past two years has demonstrated that most students requite an average of five visits. There have, however, been some students who needed more extensive treatment Others have been so severely disturbed that they were unable to continue at the University and had to return home or enter a hospital for intensive care. Last year, there were 30 students who had to leave school for mental health reasons. 
One of the unusual features of the Psychological Services Center is the nominal fee that students are required to pay for the services they receive. The student is charged $5.00 for the initial evaluation, and $7.50 is the stated fee for each therapy hour. This fee, though, is typically scaled down to $5.00 or $2.50 according to the student's financial circumstances. Moreover, unlimited credit is extended to all students. Thus, fees are never allowed to prevent students from receiving the aid they need. 
The fees serve two purposes. They help the student perceive the therapy experience as something "real" and motivate him to invest himself earnestly in the work of 

Tests are valuable tools in determining the nature and extent of the phychological illness of a patient. 
psychotherapy. Many students feel that therapy is their own responsibil­ity and that they themselves ought to pay for it. These feelings may indicate that the student is becoming aware that he is moving away from the support of the parental home and growing into an adult person. 
The second purpose of the fees is to help, in a small way, defray the cost of operating the Psychological Services Center. The cosdiness of mental health facilities is the principal reason that many schools do not have them. Notre Dame, however, has been firmly dedicated to the ideal of fostering the develop­ment of the whole man. When it became apparent that the students needed professional assistance with their emotional problems, the University tightened its belt and made a commitment to help students in this area of basic importance. 
Initially, the Psychological Services Center treated only Notre Dame students, but it soon joined the movement toward coeducation at ND and St. Mary's. In September, 1968, the services of the center were extended, through special arrange­ment, to St. Mary's College. By the extension of services over both campuses, St Mary's has been spared the need of duplicating a costly specialized facility. The addi­tion of young ladies to our patient population increases the diversity of clinical problems seen at the center and provides more realistic social experiences in the group therapy sessions. 
To complement the efforts of our staff, the center has recently engaged the assistance of a psychi­atric consultant. Lucia E. Tower, M.D., is a training analyst at the Chicago Psychoanalytic Institute. She visits the center twice a month to conduct a continuous case con­ference and a seminar. She also advises us on special clinical problems and occasionally has diagnostic interviews with the stu­dents themselves. Dr. Tower brings to the center her vast experience in the practice and teaching of psychiatry and the broad perspective of an "outside observer." 
Besides providing direct clinical services to the students, the center engages in consultation and research. Dr. Charles has often lectured on the psychiatric aspects of problems and changes in the Church. All staff members have been involved in evaluating seminarians for the Holy Cross Fathers and in consulting with the seminary faculty. In another area of endeavor. Dr. Arens and Fr. Dunn are carrying on a research project with a widely used personality test. The data from this research is now being analyzed by the computer through the cooperation of the Social Science Training and Research Laboratory. We hope to havie the results written up by the end of the year. Finally, each of the staff speaks to campus groups from time to time on mental health problems. 
To summarize, it could be said that 

Staff members Charles, Dunn and Arens discuss a case. 
the Psychological Services Center has been dedicated to providing the best possible care for students who need help with their emotional problems. It is our hope that every student may enjoy good mental health and function to the fullest of his capabilities, and through our clinical services we attempt to help troubled students achieve these goals. Our consultation and research activities are primarily directed toward helping the University community provide a healthier and more mature environment in which its young people can grow. 
CLASSES 



If you ever need a job 
In the market for a new job? Handicapped by your location? Need ways of making that all-important initial contact with a prospective employer? The ND Placement Bureau might be of some assistance. 
Although most people think of the Placement Bureau as an organization designed to assist graduating seniors in their searches for first jobs, the bureau is willing, able and prepared to serve all ND alumni interested in new employment. 
And there's more help available than most alumni realize. In addition to its own service of referrals, the Placement Bureau makes it possible for ND graduates to file their experience and qualifications with employers from coast to coast. Through the GRAD system—Gradu­ate Resume Accumulation and Distribution—an alumnus can file a resume which will be made available to employers across the country who might otherwise never be known to the job seeker. GRAD, a system developed by the College Placement Council, Bethlehem, Pa., provides quick and inexpensive means for employees and employers to meeL 
Rev. Louis J. Thornton CSC '29, director of the bureau, urges alumni to utilize the service. The man who's shopping for a job can communicate with the University bureau, and if the staff believes that GRAD could offer valuable contacts, the candidate is given a four-page resume form to complete. At no cost to the alumnus, the resume will be filed with the GRAD offices in Bethlehem and analyzed in terms of present or most recent employment and previous experience. Twenty-one factors are extracted from the information and entered into an electronic file at a computer center. The original resume is microfilmed so that it will be available upon receipt of an employer order. 
Because its designers realize that misuse of the system for "looking around" or job-hopping would 

Upper left: Rev. Louis ]. Thorton CSC, director of the ND Placement Bureau. Upper right: Student in literature room of the bureau. Bottom: Employer 
interviewing a student in bureau office. 
detract from its value to employers, the use of the GRAD system is not available to everyone. College placement bureau directors must endorse each resume and attest that the applicant has received at least a four-year degree. 
Similarly, not every employer can use the GRAD facilities. If the firm or agency is a member of a regional college placement association, it may apply directly to the College Placement Council for GRAD service. If not, it may apply to the council with the endorsement of two placement directors en campuses at which it normally recruits. Each employer wishing to use the GRAD system must be screened by the council. 

But an ND grad need not use the GRAD system unless he wishes. The use of the system is separate and distinct from the registration record and five copies of a resume needed for the use of employers who visit or telephone the University. A system of counseling is also available to alumni, and the bureau fre­quently gives advice concerning employment procedure to alumni who live close to the University or who visit the campus. The bureau also frequently refers an employer to an alumnus or an alumnus to an existing job opportunity. 
CLASS NOTES 
'06 FROM ONE WHO KNOWS 
As an old grad in his 87th year who spent four grand years at the grand old school and who, as a member of the Class of 1906, had charge of the Athletic Department in the first issue of the DOME, may I offer a correction of an error in that very fine article "80 Years of Thunder," by TOM SULLIVAN. He wrote: "The record book will reveal that the tradition and spirit perpetuated during the past eight decades was actually christened on Nov. 23, 1887. A young fellow named HENRY KUHN captained the Gold and Blue in its first intercollegiate football contest, a 0-8 lesson at the hands of a visiting U. of Michigan team. Only four additional games were played from 1887 through 1889, two of which were similar lessons from Michigan." 
Mr. Sullivan found that the early athletic records at ND were not typed or printed but were poorly written by hand, and errors were always present. That name "Henry Kuhn" should be "Henry Luhn." as the latter is his correct name. How do I know? 
After my graduation in 1906 I enrolled with JOHN F. SHEA "06 in Harvard Law School, where I graduated in 1909 and that year moved to Spokane and was admitted to the bar. Soon after my arrival in Spokane, I met a doctor of long practice, Henry B. Luhn, who very delightedly told me that while he was in the "prep" department—my best recol­lection is that he was taking a commercial course—the U. of Michigan wrote ND that the former had learned the new game of football. The letter said if ND would form a team, Michigan would come and leach the game to the new squad and the two teams would play five games, all at ND. Such a team was selected, with Henry B. Luhn as captain. After Michigan taught for a few days, they played five games and, believe it or not, ND won three of them. 
An additional word about John F. Shea: He and I roomed together during the first year of law school. Instead of studying and attending law lectures, he was writing lyrics for ND, including the "Viclorj" March," for which his brother, MICHAEL J. SHEA '04, composed the music. Mike later became a secular priest and was for .some time an a.ssistant priest at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York. The Sheas came from Holyoke, Mass., and their parents were well-to-do, but both sons died poor. Had they copyrighted the words and music of the "Victory March," they would have died millionaires, but I think they permitted the grand old school to get the copyright. 
During my years at ND. there were no automobiles, but the nearby farmers attended Mass at 10 a.m. on Sunday, for which Mike Shea served as organist, and JACK. O'CONNOR, a law man, ALLAN DWAN, now a retired movie king, one JAMIESON, whose first name I have forgotten, and I made up the farmers' choir, much to the amusement of the student body, until they saw Mike and his choir load into a different farm wagon or buggy to ride to a different farmhouse every Sunday for a real chicken dinner. Many wished to join the choir, but we refused all of them. 
The great difference between ND of my day and of today is our great president. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, without 
an equal in all the entire world. 
Thomas A. E. Lally 
1123 Paulsen Bldg. Spokane, Wash. 99201 
•14 RE: '14 VINTAGE 
For the purpose of writing a few notes about alumni of the '14 vintage, we have taken in hand a list of the quick and the dead of our class. It was prepared not so long ago, but it is surprising how many who were listed among the living arc now deceased. 
Some of the recently deceased arc RICHARD T. BRAUN, 3901 4th St, Port Arthur, Tex.; WILLIAM P. (POINT) DOWNING, 356 Citizens Bank Bldg., De­catur, 111.; EUGENE A. (NIG) KANE, 20880 Erie Rd., Rocky River, Ohio; and EDWIN J. LARNEY, whom we u.sed to see often when he lived in Chicago but who was residing in Elgin, III., when the summons came for him. He is survived by his wife, Marie (nee Lancaster), and four adult children, two of whom arc married daughters living in Elgin. His two older children. Rose Mary and John, are single. 
Not so long ago we had lunch with Dick Braun in Port Arthur and more recently had a good chat with "Point" in South Bend. 
RAY T. MILLER '14, of Cleveland, Ohio, gave his records, personal papers and letters to Western Reserve Historical Society as we have just learned from members of his family. The papers include records of the time he was in W.W. I and the time he saw public service as mayor of Cleveland and was county chair­man of Cuyahoga County. He was said to have been the first county chairman to support the late John F. Kennedy for the Democratic presidential nomination in 1960. The papers referred to are now being cataloged for the reference and information of future generations. 
Recently we had a chat with THOMAS 
B. CURRY '14. who is still practicing law in his native city of Hartford, Conn., under the firm name of Curry & Curry, though his brother and law partner, JIM. who was also a member of the class of '14 has been deceased for some time. Tom's son. Dave, is now the other member of the firm. Tom's wife, Angela (nee O'Connor), is a graduate of St. Mary's College. 
FRANCIS B. HACKETT 'II writes that FRANK (DREAMY) SCANLON '10 returned from a Florida vacation and fell walking up the steps of his home at 219 Lincoln Place, Brooklyn. He suffered a fracture in the fall, and it was fatal. "Dreamy" was well known in the days of yore. Letters to the widow would be appreciated. 
JESSE J. HERR '13 writes that he is now practicing law with his son, JAMES J. HERR '54L, under the firm name of Herr & Herr, 103 N. Main St., Pontiac, III. Jesse has been practicing since January, 1917, with the exception of the time he ser\ed in the infantry in W.W. 1. 
When you read this it will be nearing another Christmas and as Santa Claus was quoted in the "Night Before Christmas," mero' Christmas to all and to all a good nighL 
Walter L. Clements 502 W. Navarre South Bend, Ind. 46616 
'15 KEEPING IN TOUCH 
The following are items of interest from ROBERT L. ROACH '15, Muscatine, Iowa. Bob writes: "I am happy to report that I have recovered quite well from the loss of a substantial piece of my colon in April of this year. Am due for some x-rays any day now and am hoping no trouble will appear on the scene. Am also hoping nothing will prevent my attending our class reunion in June. Had to miss the last one in 1965 due to illness. Although I don't get back to ND as often as I would like to, I keep in close touch with developments there. I think Rev. THEODORE M. HESBURGH has done a marvelous job bringing ND to its present standing. About the only activity of any consequence that I have left, outside of golf, reading and killing time, is my position on the executive committee of one of the local banks. It is very interesting." 
Our good friend ALVIN H. "HEINE" BERGER reports that "the North wind was blowing hard, the frost was on the pumpkin.s, and Alice and I exercised our wings for the flight south. I received the "Reunion '70' list of old-timers' names and addresses—this is a grand idea and helps out in many ways. I was at ND last week to visit a friend who is in school there. He took me on a tour of the campus—what growth since 1915. You gotta see it to believe it. I won't be able to see any of the games this year—when the Monogram request for tickets came out I had arthritis in both legs. It's okay now, and I'm fit as a fiddle. Not many old-timers around here but hope to see .some in the Southland, thanks to the 50-Year Club list of names just received. Regards to all of our old classmates." Heinie spends the warm part of each year on R.R. 2, Sturgis, Mich. 49091 
Am thankful to STEPHEN J. SCHNEI­DER M.A. '29 for a most interesting letter—a saga of a European trip which he and his wife took earlier this year. Steve enrolled in the boy guidance postgraduate course at ND in the fall of 1927. His field work for one semester the following fall was done at Hull House in Chicago, under the inspirational guidance of Jane Addams. He returned to complete his course at ND and was awarded his M.A. degree in June, 1929. His wife-to-be. Hazel Cormiev, was working for the Children's Protective Society in Minneapolis. She and girl friends had planned a trip to Europe in the summer of 1930, but she gave it up to marry Steve, who promised to make it up to her someday by taking her abroad. It was almost 40 years later, upon his retirement after 30 years in government service, that he was able to fulfill his promise. 
To ND men everywhere, may the spirit of Christmas be with you throughout the coming year. 
Albert A. Kuhle 
117 Sunset Ave. 
LaGrange, 111. 60525 
'17 WELL-ROUNDED MAN 
HUGHIE O'NEILL, who operates or is interested in a half-dozen different com­panies, including the O'Neill Co. and the O'Neill Brothers Foundation, is now located at the Commerce Park Square, 23200 Chagrin Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio 44122. Ina and BERNARD J. VOLL now reside at 1635 N. Riverside Dr., South Bend, Ind. 46616. 
FOOTBALL STADIUM SPECIALS— Attention of BOB CAHILL, by PAUL FOGARTY: Ice-cold red hots and steaming cold coffee. So what? So now we eat in the car in the parking lot before the game, just like the present generation. 
No doubt you will be delighted to know 
that the old college spirit still lives in 
our class. Let's hear from the 'I7er 

from down East, who brought his pet pig 
on a leash to the Michigan State game 

and sat in the Monogram Club section. 
Whenever the pig became restless, they 
say he fed it a shot of bourbon. 
How about that? 

An anonymous classmate writes on one of those yellow post cards to inquire why we write about the same men all of the time. Well, my yellow friend, if you mean CARLETON BEH and Bernard Voll, who are active in the SUMMA movement, or PAUL FOGARTY, who entertains us with witty verse, or BILL GRADY, who thinks nothing of flying around the world or down to old Mexico when he becomes bored, or JOHN RILEY, who goes to and from Eire to check on the status quo, it's because they are active and doing something. They make news. What did you do this summer? A hole-in-one or a 20-pound fish maybe? Let us hear about it and help to keep the column going, or if you want to trade typewriters, it's a deal. 
So now in the midst of a beauUful Indian summer in the golden buckle of the Michigan fruit belt, and because of old debbil deadline—^we just had to get one bit of alliteration in this issue—we wish all of you good '17ers a happy holiday and lots of health and happiness in 1970. Remember, the reunion dates are June 12, 13 and 14 next year. 
Dan E. Hilgartner 
P.O. Box 75 
Harbert, Mich. 49115 

'U ALL-AMERICAN RETURNS The Ail-American Water Boy, E. MORRIS STARRtil, is all set for a return to campus this June. Sure will be great seeing the monogram track star. 
Birthday greetings: Dec. 28, PAUL E. EDGREN, 701 Culberton Dr., Oklahoma City, Okla.; Dec. 31, Dr. RENE RODRIGUEZ, 2266 Broadway, Denver, Colo. 80205; Jan. 22, LEONARD F. MAYER, 715 Beach St, Daytona Beach, Fla. 32014; Jan. 23, JOHN A. LEMMER. SKIl Lake Shore Dr., Escanaba, Mich. 49829; Jan. 24, JOHN B. KANALEY '09, 215 E. 64th St., New York, N.Y. 10021; Jan. 31, JOHN E. CASSIDY '17, 1128 Jefferson BIdg., Peoria, III. 61602; Feb. 1, ALBERT F. GUSHURST '09, 9360 
E. Centre, Denver, Colo. 80222; Feb. 2, PATRICK MALONEY '16, 216 Las Olas Dr., Crown Point Ind. 46307; Feb. 23, ARTHUR J. BERGMAN '17, 3910 Rosemary St, Chevy Chase, Md. 20015; Feb. 23, LEO J. VOGEL '17, 286 Magnolia Place, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15228. 
Wedding anniversaries: Jan. 2, Dr. NEIL 
J. WHALEN, 1023 Cadieux Rd., Grosse Pointe Park, Mich.; Jan. 4, WILLIAM B. McDONALD, 55 W. 5th Ave., San Mateo, Calif. 94402. 
Believe I changed the date of JOSEPH 
T. RILEY's birthday. I received an interesting letter Riley sent to PETER 

J. RONCHETTI. Sent greeUng on correct date, and the "Judge" comes back with another interesting note. Wondering now 
what Riley thinks about Duffy's new president? 
Had an interesting phone conversation wiUi MAX KAZUS and, like "WHITEY" WHALEN, both had return visits to the hospital. Max reports in okay and "Whitey" and Rosemaiy took a trip aroutid Greenland and Nova Scotia, returning in time to take in the MSU-ND game. 
Last report I have on WILLIAM E. BRADBURY, Robinson, III. 62454, is that Bill is doing fine on a 660-caIorie diet Sits up 30 minutes twice a day and still has three nurses around the clock. Dr. 
D. M. NIGRO, president of the Rockne Club of America, comes out with his fall newsletter all about the 40ih reunion of ND's national champions. Very interesting. 
Ruth A. Call, 1047 Biltmore Dr., Winter Haven, Fla. 33880, writes: "Our gratidson, Chris Bonwit is a senior this year. He lives in Sorin Hall and is on the Dean's List Wouldn't CHARLIE have been proud?" 
Rev. CHARLES J. WILLIAMS thought it would be a nice gesture if we sent Ruth a Christmas card. I know that we all trust Fr. Williams could fidfill his plans and attended the ND-USC game. CARLETON D. BEH looks great and is "all out" for putting more punch into the 50-Year Club reunion. 
The Class of 1918 wishes one and all SO-Year Club members a meny Christmas and a happy new year. May you live to be 100. Peace. 
George B. Waage 3305 Wrightwood Ave. Chicago, III. 60647 
'20 LONG JUMP ROY A. WATHIER has jumped from sunny St Petersburg, Fla., across the country to OcoUllo, Calif. 92259—P.O. Box 98. 
Dr. MAURICE J. THORNTON has moved to Mar-Main Arms Apartments— 125 W. Marion St, South Bend, Ind.' 46601. I expect him to attend our reunion. 1 plan to see LEONARD CALL and JOHN T. BALFE in New York in the next two weeks, as they always have suggestions for our reunion. I will also be in contact with SHERWOOD DIXON about the plans for the reunion. 
The ALUMNUS sends the following addresses: EDWIN W. HUNTER Ph.B., Minocqua, Wis.; RICHARD VOGT B.S. '15, 
M.S.
 '16, Ph.D., recorded in our Dome of 1920, Box 305, Dundee, Fla.; JOSEPH 

M.
 RIVERA S.M.E., P.O. Box 785, Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico; MANEFEE R. CLEMENTS S.M.E., 1605 E. McKinley. South Bend, Ind. 


You may recall these men. The ALUMNUS reunion annoimcement together with the up-to-date list, is another reminder to start planning for our reunion. 
James H. Ryan 2470 East Ave., Apt 314 Rochester, N.Y. 14610 
•22 40 YEARS OF BUSS We extend congratulations and best wishes to the AL SCOTTs, of Los Angeles, the RAY KEARNs, of Terre Haute, Ind., and the TOM S. McCABEs, of Ebnhurst III., all of whom celebrated 40th wedding anniversaries during October. 
The A. HAROLD WEBERs of South Bend were visiting England, Ireland and Scotland this siunmer, but they did not cross 

paths with the VINCENT HANRAHANs, 
who were doing the same thing at 
the veiy same time. 
Our new-address department has two new 

listings that should be noted by our class­
mates, because each represents quite a 
geographical change for those involved. 
Dr. MICHAEL A. KOLCUM moved 
from Ryukyn Islands, Naha, Okinawa, to 
2413 Larkspur Dr., Johnson City, Tenn. 
37601; CYRIL B. FITES has transferred 
from Florissant Mo., to 2454 Australia 
Way East Clearwater, Fla. 33515. 
The HEARTLEY "HUNK" ANDER­

SONS, the CHARLIE CROWLEYs, and die 
DAN YOUNCs all attended the Southern 
Cal game at ND. There must have 
been others of "22 from out of town to see 
that particular game, but no word has 
seeped through as we go to press. 
G. "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Rd. North Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
'24 MOVING '24cfs 
Some new names of classmates on the 
move are: JEROME C. ARNOLD, who 
took what looks like the inevitable 
retirement leap from Davenport Iowa, to 
5858 Midnight Pass Rd., Sarasota, Fla. 
33581. Some classmates or schoolmates 
of that vintage mi^t like to get in touch 
with Jerome (I thought we called him 
"Charles" at ND). Let us know if you 
join the winter home of circus people. 
JOHN GOTUACO moved from his old 
address to M.R.U. in the Philippines. 
What in the world is M.R.U., John? Would 
a letter addressed to you that way ever 
reach you? I'm guessing it is Manila U. 
On a sadder note, we learned recently that THOMAS E. GORDON died on Christmas day, 1967. He has a son, RONALD, of the class of '59. A belated letter of condolence was sent to Ronald, and a Mass was said by Rev. Joseph Fey CSC, University chaplain, on July 20 this past summer. 
Here it is, mid-October, with Indian summer weather, and we are writing notes that will be read just before Christmas . . . the most precious celebration period for all Christians. Merry Christmas to everyone. Maybe I'll hear an echo from some of you and these class notes will begin to bring out some old familiar names in 1970. 
This is not an editorial section but maybe it can be used to editorialize enough to start some class correspondence. When we look back to our college days our problems were simple compared with the perilous journey to education today. If we let off a little steam then, it was more likely to be on the football field or on a "skive." How many would even recognize the word on the campus today? The temptations equivalent to a skive today are "to take a trip," in the current jargon. It's like comparing the danger of a mosquito with that of a lion. Are they just that bored with mosquitoes or that fearless of lions? Can they play with lions and survive? Are you with me so far? Send some protests, provocations or plain praise. This column will promulgate what the old fogies of 1924 are thinking and doing about it More in 1970. 
James P. Durcan 5400 S.W. Scholls Ferry Rd. Portland, Ore. 97225 '2S LEAVES HIPSI 
CHARLES R. SHIRCLIFF of Vincennes, 
Ind., retired to Jacksonville, Fla., in 
November '68 after 32 years with Pepsi Cola 
Allied Bottler, Inc. He was executive 
vice-president and general manager of the 
Pepsi Cola Vincennes plant "I am now 
taking it easy and love it. Hope 
to be at the ND-Michigan State game," 
Charlie wrote. 
It is with deep regret that I received 
notice of ALBERT McGANN's death on 
Aug. 24. A class Mass is being said for Al. 
From JOSEPH P. BURKE: "My 
brother recently met JOHN BARTLEY 
doing his business at the old stand on Wall 
Street. I hope to return to the campus 
at our reunion in June. We should make 
them annual affairs from now on." 
Thanks for the "info," Charlie and Joe. 
Here is more of the same sad news 
you have been getting. JOHN F. WENT­
LAND 75 died June 26, 1969. John 
was a monogram man. Remember John 
and alt the ^Sers in your prayers. 
RUDOLPH G. RODIGHERO retired 
in 1962 from the chief design branch, 
G.S.A., after 26 years. After 1962 he 
was city assessor and building inspector 
as well as county supervisor until 
Jan. 1, 1969. 
ELMER LAYDEN and Prentice Hall 
have announced the publication of a new 
book, // fVas A Different Game, by 
Layden. In the book Elmer evokes a 
nostalgic picture of that bygone era when 
he idayed a major part in making 
football one of America's most popular 
sports. It is also his life story told with 
warmth. The Hammes Bookstore on the 
ND campus has copies. 
Speaking of Bro. CONAN MORAN and 
his bookstore—^your secretary came up 
with a first for ND. You can now buy .a beautiful official sculptured seal for home 
or office in the official colors, II inches 
in diameter, that costs less than $10. This 
went on sale the afternoon of the Southern 
Cal game. This can be mailed to you 
if you want to miss the game-day 
subway-crowded bookstore bargains. This 
is Hurley's first plug in 45 years, and 
ND is the first to have one in the Big 10 
area, and maybe the entire country, 
at this price. 
The JOHN A. BARTLEYs have indicated 
a welcome interest in the proposed Rome 
tour. DAN O'NEILL shuttles back 
arid forth to Europe like an intercontinental 
pilot. Heard from JOE MENGER 
not too long ago, and he's still pursuing 
the journalistic path. Cross the path of 
BILL VOOR occasionally. Bill still soars 
as a legal eagle, but the headlines more 
often name William E. Voor Jr., now 
the local prosecuting attorney. 
Well, thanks again for your persisting good work. I can promise one thing from the local scene for those who come back in June; you will hear it, and you will probably see some of it, but you're going to be hard-pressed to believe it 
From RAY DeCOURCEY: "I have just received the Reunion '70 brochure and hope to make it After 21 years with the city of Rochelle as city auditor, purchasing agent, etc., I retired in August, 1968. This past summer we stayed at a summer home in Wisconsin. We would have liked to stay there longer but had to return to Rochelle for our daughter to begin her sophomore year in high school. A few years ago I was out of circulation for some time as I was struck by a car while crossing a street It seems that an increasing number of those in the class I know best are aiqxaring in the lower section where the deceased are listed— among them WILLARD JONES, DAVE MURPHY, AL FOOS (HERB JONES was from this area, too). A friend who moved to LaPorte has reported that CLARENCE BUNCE is also gone. God willing, I hope to see you and many more of the '25ers in June." 
Hope to see you all in June. DON MILLER, HANK WURZER and JIM ARMSTRONG are cooking with some great plans. You will get a couide of letters when we "jell" and know exactly what decisions are being made. 
John P. Hurley 2085 Brookdale Rd. Toledo, Ohio 43606 
'2» THESE WERE THERE Our 14th annual '28 class cocktail party following the Southern Cal game was a great success, thanks to Helena and ED QUINN. One of the highligfau was the return for the first time since 1928 of Dr. JOHN COCKE, who practices medicine in Los Angeles, and AL MAHAR, who now lives in New York City after having lived throughout the world. Others who have returned for reunions but for the first time attended a '28 cocktail party included: 
P. BRUST, R. LUSSON, T. MAHON, 
J. SCHMITZ. M. RYAN and G. SHEIBLEY. The remaining classmates in attendance who have been with us before at 78 cocktail parties included: J. ALLAN, 
N. AMIOT, B. BIRD, L. BUCKLEY, W. BUSHMAN, P. CANNY, P.CENEDELLA, 
F. CREADON, F. DONOVAN, J. DORAN, 
W. DWYER, J. FREDERICK, J. GRIFFIN, J. HILGER, M. HOGAN, J. IGOE, G. JENKINS, W. JONES, J. LAHEY, J. LANGTON, W. LEAHY, J. LEITZINGER, E. McKEOWN, J.R. MURPHY, W.H. MURPHY, H. McCABE, L. McINTYRE, F. MEYER, 
A. MILLER, H. PHALIN, R. QUINLAN, 
E. QUINN, E. RAFTER; F. SCHROEDER, 
G. SCHEUER, B. SCHUH, C. SCHUESSLER, R. SMITH, V. WALSH. Wives, children, and friends accompanied classmates, including Joe Langton's two daughters, one of whom. Sister Maurine, was the first sister who has ever attended our 78 party. Kitty Rice, the widow of CHET RICE, was with us again. We are indebted to Fran Meyer for again taking pictures at the party. Our 78 cocktail party will be held in 1970 on the campus, follow­ing the Purdue game. Make your plans accordingly. 
FRANK WALLACE, in his interesting new book on ND, quotes BOB HAMILTON on Cardinal O'Hara and also mentions that "fresh red roses, provided by a group of 1928 graduates, are kept in the niche at the left of the altar in Sacred Heart Church where John Faithful is buried." 
Death claimed three men of 78 in recent months. ED DUFFY, who died July 24, was an investment broker and member of the New York Stock Exchange since 1929. Although Ed was with our class for only two years, he kept in contact with us and attended our first class cocktail party in 19S6. He is survived by his wife and seven children, including a Maryknoll missionary in Tanzania. Ed's widow lives at 121 Old Chester Rd., Essex Falls, NJ. 07021. Ed was a member of the board of trustees of Trini^ College. 
Mrs. JOHN J. HOWARD called from 
Boynton Beach, Fla., advising me of the 
death of John on Oct 4, following a heart 
attack. John retired in 1966 from the New 
York Telephone Co. and moved to 
Florida, where he died. He is survived by 
his widow, who lives at 640 S.E. 2nd Ave., 
Boynton Beach, Fla. 33455. JAMES T. 
PARKER, who has been ill with Aldieinier's 
disease, died on July 13 at the VA hospital 
in Culfport, Miss. Jim was single and is 
survived by two sisters, Mrs. Annabelle 
Jamison at 1201 Mundy St, Vicksburg, 
Miss. 39180, and Mrs. Mary P. Shaw. 
Our treasurer, Joe Langton, has arranged for Masses for Ed, Jclm and Jim. Please remember tbem in your prayers. 
The following classmates enjoyed a wonderful 78 class get-together at Joe Doran's home following the Purdue game: FRED SOLMAN, Russ Smith, Frank Creadon, Bill Dwyer, Bill Murphy, Swede Schroeder, TOM HART, Joe HBger, Art Miller and Frank Meyers. Everyone in attendance reported tbey had a most enjoy­able time, thanks to Joe and Fran Doran, to Frank Creadon, who handled the arrangements, and to Fran Meyers for excellent pictures which be took at the party. 
I was sorry to hear of the serious illness of the wives of Tom Mabon and GEORGE SARGUS. Remember them in your prayers. 
Just received news that ROBERT STRIKEL died Sept 25. He suffered a stroke in March. He is survived by his wife at 4912 40th Place, Hyattsville, Md. 20781. Bob attended our 25th reunion. 
Louis F. Bucklv 
6415 N. Sheridan Rd., Apt 1007 Chicago, in. 60626 
"Z* NAMES, NAMES, NAMES Incluiled among those who attended the Oct 18 post-Southern Cal game get­togeUier were: BOB ALT; Mary and JOHN COLANGELO; Mary and CHARLES COLTON; Barbara and JIM CURRY; JACK and son John FARR; Judy and JOE DAUTREMONT; Alma and GAYLORD HAAS; Mary Jo and FRANK HEUPEL (who were party regulars before they moved to Pennsylvania); LYMAN and Mrs. HILL; Ruth and JACK KEARNS (back from a tour of Europe); JOE LENIHAN with Christian Brothers' Fred, corporate vice-president aixl Paul, corporate secretaiy; STEVE McPARTLIN; FRANCIS and Mrs. MEYER; the JOE NASH family; FRANK O'BRIEN; Rosemary and JOE O'BRYAN; Dorothy and Patsy Plunkett; EDWARD SAYRE; Jessie and GEORGE SCHMITT, CLETE and Mrs. SCHNEI­DER; Margaret and JIM TOBIN; class President BOB and Louise VOGLEWEDE; Mildred and AL ZOELLER; and Fathers BROESTL, THORNTON and WIN­CHESTER (St Ann's Church, 2175 Coventry Rd, Cleveland Heights, Ohio 44118). 
Clete Schneider reported on KARL MARTERSTECK, who has added an exten­sive oyster farm to his many projects. Kari has responsibilities in Portland, Ore., Alaska and Cleveland. The oyster bed business is a sidelight that has been in the news. We missed seeing Dr. JOHN VAICHULIS, whose wife is ill. The THAD HEINLEINs were here for the Michigan State game with their daughter from Chicago. 
JOHN T. BLASIUS pleads: "If you get into trouble with the law in Logan, Ohio, 

Congrats 

RICHARD T. SULLIVAN '32 has assumed the duties of his new position, assistant to the general comptroller at Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester, 
N.Y. He joined the company in 1941 as a chief accountant and has held a variety of positions within the firm. 
ARTHUR L. CONRAD '35, 
commander USNR, received a 
personal citation for outstanding 
service to the Navy upon his 

retirement as commanding officer of 
Naval Reserve Public Affairs 
Company 9-2, Chicago. 

CHARLES M. MORRiSON '38 has been elected second vice-president of the Virginia Assn. of Insurance Agents. Morrison, a partner in a Richmond insurance agency, Tabb, Brockenbrough and Ragland, was a district director until his election as an officer. 
RAYMOND F. BADDOUR '45 has been appointed head of the department of chemical engineering at 
M.I.T. Baddour joined the M.I.T. staff to serve as an assistant director of the engineering practice school at Oak Ridge in 1948. 
ROBERT G. BROWN '46 has been named director of sales for General Motors' AC electronics division, Milwaukee, Wis. The holder of two patents on guidance systems and now employed in the U.S. missile inventory. Brown is the father of 12 children. 
PHILIP W. EVERIST '52 has been appointed assistant manager of sheet and strip sales for Kaiser Steel Corp. Everist joined Kaiser Steel in 
1963 as an inside salesman at the company's Oakland, Calif., office. 
please do it before II p.m., or 1 will have 
to do the paper work on your arrest My 
new career since retirement is that of 
night radio dispatcher for the Logan 
Police Department" You will recall that 
John underwent eye surgery in the early 
summer and had to cancel his plans for the 
40th reunion. 
RAYMOND DRYMALSKI, judge of the 
Circuit Court of Cook County, missed the 
Oct 18 game because of prior arrangements 
to spend the weekend in New York City 
with his son. PETE MORGAN had a 
cross-country meet to attend. CHARLES 
ROLAND WRIGHT sent his regrets from 
Oklahoma City and his regards to 
Fathers Doremus, Louis Thornton and 
Otis Winchester. 
As we approach this Christmas season, 
may the Infant Son of Our Lady of the 
Lake bless you and yours abundantly now 
and throughout the year. 
Larry Stauder 
Engineering BIdg. 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'M EARLY BIRDS Preparations have already begun for the class reunions to be held June 12-13, 1970. This may sound like long-range planning, but there are many logistics which the Alumni Office, and especially TOM SULLIVAN, has to work out at an early date. I believe that most of the classes will be housed again in the northeast quad of the campus, opposite the new North Dining Hall. This would include such residence halls as Keenan-Stanford, Zahm, Breen-Phillips and Cavanaugb. Centralizing the campus groups in this area worked out especially well last year and hence the plan to repeat it In fact, I believe, one of these halls has elevators which should be reserved for a class that has been out for 40 years. 
Friday-night class dinners will be held in different buildings around the campus, and I have asked that our dinner be located in the new University Club near the Morris Inn and the Center for Continuing Education. Exact locau'ons will be announced later in direct mailings to the class members. 
I hope the regional committees have begun to communicate with people in their areas, looking toward a big attendance from the Class of 1930. The grand marshal of the reunion, TIM TOOMEY, has not yet opened his national campaign, but I suspect he will be taking to the television networks soon for a quick opem'ng speech for our 40th reunion. Watch your local papers for television lists. 
CHEF ASHMAN wrote from Morris­town, Tenn, that he was going to see the ND freshmen play the Tennessee freshmen, a game which ended, I believe, in a 10-7 score in favor of the Baby Volls. It was Chet who wrote us the sad news of the death of BILL CASSIDY in Louisiana in September. 
Tim Toomey wrote that he was in New York for the Army game but did not see as many alumni that he knew as he usually sees at such events; however, he did run into GEORGE O'MALLEY of the Navy judge advocate's staff in front of St Patrick's Cathedral. Also, he had a chance to visit with JACK CASSIDY and VINNY McCUE of Red Bank, NJ. 
We want to call attention to the news of the death of Dr. FRANCIS HAND of our class, who died Sept 23. Dr. Hand had 

fc 
two sons who also graduated from ND, 
one in 1957, the other in 1962. I am 
certain the class members of 1930 will 
remember him, as well as Bill Cassidy and 
their families, in prayers. 
BOB COONEY, from Washington, D.C., 
is plugging the reunion strongly and, I 
believe, he will be calling a lot of fellows 
in the East to alert them to the reunion 
dates, and the time is running out He was 
working on some kind of charter 
transportation to leave D.C. Thursday 
night for South Bend and the reunion 
and to return from ND on Sunday around 
the noon hour. In fact, he might draw upon 
several classes of alumni to fill this charter 
arrangement 
JOHN MILLER has moved to West 
Columbia, S.C., and is now employed by 
the Water Pollution Control of the South 
Carolina State Health Department He is 
carrying on as an engineer in this 
assignment 
I wish each of you would think a bit about the reunion programming and write any and all suggestions to me, which I will pass on to the local committee. 
Devere T. Plunkett 
O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'31 A GOOD UFT-OFF The Class of 1931 finally got off the ground with a postgame reunion party. It was in the Monogram Room of the new Athletic and Convocation Center follov/ing the Michigan State-ND game. It was a success, judging from the comments of those present and for many it was a firsthand opportunity to visit this most imposing and latest addition to the campus. About 25 or 30 classmates and their wives or family members attended. I understand that due to locked doors and a few other minor problems some decided not to wait and missed the party. 
Among those attending were: ED FOX, JACK SCHMITT, CARL CRONIN, GENE VALLEE, TOM MONAHAN, BOB SULLIVAN, JOE DEEB, SARGE RALEIGH, CLARENCE DURBIN, MATT GARRIGAN, B.R. DESENBERG, BERT METZGER, JERRY DESMOND, CLARENCE FUTTER, JERRY BALL, AL STEPAN, FRANK HOLLAND, PHIL ANGSTEN, TOM COUGHLIN, FRANK BUTORAC, DON MacDONALD, JOHN WEIBLER, BILL OMALLEY, JIM MULVANEY, CHARLEY SMALLWOOD, RAY COLLINS, GENE COYLE, and a member of the Class of 1930 named KEISER, whose first name was not listed by our student doorman. I want to thank JIM CARROLL for his kind offer of a case of liquid refreshments, but it would have been too much competition for the Monogram bar. I think it would be wonderful for our 40th Reunion in June, 1971, Jim, and hope you will not forget the occasion. 
I received a letter and clipping from Elizabeth STOEPLER, telling of the death of her husband, AMBROSE, in early October. He had suffered a heart attack in July and seemed on the road to recovery. Amby had four children, TOM '67, Jim, a freshman this year, and two daughters. Our sympathy and prayers go to his family, and please remember him in your Masses. FJC. MURPHY wrote telling of a surprise visit in Roswell, N.M., by Judge MICHAEL KINNEY, Alton, III., during a trip last summer. They had quite a time, and Mike 
reported on ED MURPHY, whom he saw 
at a legal seminar in Chicago in September. 
.Also present was Judge JAMES BALES, 
Dixon, III. F.X. was a bit concerned about 
Mike wanting to drive from Roswell to 
Oklahoma City in one day. It doesn't look 
far on the map, but driving it takes quite 
some time. 
JIM MULVANEY phoned and said that JOHN BURNS would not be on hand but would write me a letter. Faithful John did that promptly. He had visited with ED CUNNINGHAM and also attended a bon voyage party for ED MAHON and his wife, who were departing on the Michel­angelo for a cruise. Rev. JIM RIZER sent regrets and best wishes. Rev. MAURICE FITZGERALD, Aptos, Calif., said he was a bit far away to get back for the weekend. Also a note from the secretary of COACH LEAHY, saying that Frank would be busy with CBS sports and could not make it BOB GORE missed the North­western game and our reunion. He, along with BOB CONNESS and JOHN SULLIVAN, sends best wishes to their mutual friends. Rev. RICHARD D. PATRICK attended the game but had to leave early to celebrate the 5 o'clock Mass at Donaldson, Ind. FRANK BUTORAC and his wife are staying in Niles, Mich., this fall for all the games, as they were on a round-the-world tour last fall. Frank also had a visit from Mike Kinney in San Diego this summer. Frank's address is 3625 1st Ave., San Diego, Calif. 92103. I am sure Frank will be holding open house for any classmates visiting the Southern California area. 
Rev. TOM FITZPATRICK sent regrets and writes: "You may not recall, but if memory serves me right we both had the pleasure of being in Prof. Staunton's English class. For me, the class and all my years at ND hold so many great memories . ... and with my memories, the wonder just what Notre Dame is like today. I read, I hear, I even see, and the reality just will not enable me to understand. Still, it must be as great as ever—would one say 'greatest'?" Fr. Fitzpatrick is in Burbank, Calif., and sends best wishes to all. Ilie announcement of the reunion party brought about a substantial number of letters which will have to wait for the next ALUMNUS, as TOM SULLIVAN limits the amount of space to each class. I should like to hear from classmates regarding the possibility of a reunion party following the Army-ND game in 1970. 
James T. Doyle 
1567 Ridge Ave. 
Evanston, III. 60201 
'32 A GOOD CORRESPONDENT Just before deadline I received a newsy letter from MIKE "KELLY" POWERS' wife. Shorty. "Dear Flo: Sorry that 
we did not get together before we left New York. Mike retired on June I and we left on June 16—visited our daughter and five grandchildren in Pennsylvania, 
then went to Detroit and Cleveland (Mike had a nice phone chat with MIKE CRAWFORD, but we couldn't get to­gether), then on to South Bend, where we spent a few days with Helen and CLARENCE FUTTER '31 and took a lot of pictures at the campus. Next, on to Chicago and Milwaukee, then Denver, Reno, Tahoe and Caliform'a, where we visited our other daughter and two grandchildren. We'll have another one there around Christmas. ED MASSA (exHdieeileader and Law School graduate) met u s for dinner one ni^t'and then came, to the SS. Luriine to bid ns bon voyage as we sailed for two weeks in the Hawaiian Islands. When we returned, Ed and Giace had ns for diimer at their home in Hayward. That same week we went to Long Beach for dinner with Lydia and ED SHEERAN '31, and BUD GEIS and he wife were there, too, so it was a nice reunioiL Althoiq^ Mike retired, he is doing consultant work bete for the company. He is going to investigate the ND Alumni Club here, which we understand is quite active. The good Lord wifling, we plan to make the 40lh leuiBon in '72. We are at 511 Bayshore Drive, Apt. 39, Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 33304." 
ARTHUR F. CUNE writes: 'Vats off to Fr. HesbuT^ and his active part in the national and worid pictnie!" EDWIN THOMAS KOLSKI visited the campus for an the ND home games. He says: "My 31st aimual ND excursion this year was for the Navy game. As usual, I had two busloads." 
A.E. LARKIN: new address—1585 Fifth Ave., Apt. 201, San Francisco, Calif. 94122. ART HIMBERT has moved &om Miami to 2775 Okeechobee Rd., Hialeah, Fla. 33010. And JOHN RUDD left Brooklyn for CoDege of the Virgin Islands, St Thomas, U.S., Virgin Islands 00801. HARRY BURGER'S new address is 5200 Carriage Way Dr., Rolling Mewlows, m. 60008. LLOYD HAZEN left Missouri for 2120 Sarazen Dr., Dunedin, Fla. 33528. Keep those letters and post cards coming. 
Florence J. McCarthy '­6 River Rd. Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583 
'33 TO YOU AND YOUKS As the holiday season is near, I wish you and yours a merry Christmas and a holy new year! Thank you for your hdp in the past year. 
A long letter came from ED ROXAS, whose new address is: Royas y Cia, 
P.O. Box 212, Makati. Rizal, D-708, Philippines. Since his sons will be at ND in 73, hell attend our 40th Reunion. Ed had a heart attack in March but, thank God, he has pulled through and is recovering nicely. In the past few years he has seen Rev. THEODORE HESBURGH twice. Rev. EDMUND JOYCE once, and Fr. PEYTON twice during their visits to the Philippines. He recalled JOHN PENOTE, who lived across from him in Howard Hall 40 years ago and was the first student he talked to. He also remembered MARV HUOT and KARL VOCELHEIM and concluded with best wishes to all of his classmates. 
CHARLES H. KRETSCHMER JR. died Sept. 5. Condolences may be sent to his widow, 1295 Lathrup, Saginaw, Mich. 48603. A Mass was offered in his remembrance on the campus. Sept 14. 
JOHN PETERSCHMIDT, from Tulsa, Ofcla., sends regards to his off-campus (oommates, HOWARD O'PREY, RYAN, LENAHAN and CONNOR. PAT CROWLEY, from Chicago, expressed regrets at hh inability to attend our reunion on the Army game eve. Dr. BOB DONOVAN, who attended that great victory over Michigan State, promised to send names of any classmates he was able to interview at tlat game. 
JOE BEAN will take his wife on a tour 
of Europe beginning Sept. 27 and not 
ending until late October. He expects 
to stop at the Vatican and get things 
strai^tencd out and will send Roman post 
cards to PETE CONNELLY and 
CHARLIE SLATT. ED ECKERT vol­
unteered to help with the reunion. 
Thanks, Ed! 
After visiting Austin, Indiana, and 
BeUwood, 111., SAM HYDE attended the 
Michigan State game. He is in the 
employee relations department of the 
American Can Co. Dot and Pete Connelly 
sent a newsy letter telling me he now 
has his J.D. Well, hello there. Doctor Pete! 
Their oldest daughter had the first 
grandchild, Richard Michael Sullivan Jr., 
on Aug. 9. Dick has been enrolled at 
ND for the class of '91. Their second 
daughter, Honora Keele Connelly, like my 
own daughter, MaryHelen, is working 
on her master's degree. 
BOB JOHNSTON had to miss the Army 
game but flew to the Southern Cal 
game with the Harrisburg (Pa.) ND Club. 
Last year I met that fine group at the 
Oklahoma game. BOB JR. '64 is through 
graduate school, son Mike just graduated, 
daughter Patsy finished first year at 
Notre Dame in Baltimore, and young 
Kevin started high school. 
Rita and PHIL FAHERTY, on the way 
to enroll their daughter in St. Mary's 
College, attended the Northwestern game. 
BILL BODO, my Havertown neighbor, 
said he'd try to attend the Army game. 
Bill has a daughter who is a freshman at 
West Chester State College. 
JOE BORDA, who sat next to Irene and me at the Army game, told us that he has moved his law ofiice. The new address is: Bender Building, Suite 431, 1120 Connecticut Ave. NW, Washington, 
D.C. 20036. His telephone number is: (202) 296 5834. 
Our off-year reunion on the eve of the Army game was a great success, thanks to the efforts of Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES 
A. QUINN and their son, Paul. The Vandeibilt Suite of the Biltmore Hotel, NYC, was jammed with our classmates, their wives and their friends. LUCIEN KEMPF, from Lindsay, O'lda., traveled the longest distance to reach the gathering. SAM HYDE, JACK SOISSON, GEORGE ROHRS, and JACK HOYT constituted the New York committee set up to help the able chairman, Charlie Quinn. LARRY SEXTON and JACK O'SHAUGH­NESSY led the out-of-town group. Our thanks go to all of them and to the management of the Biltmore. We expect to receive more details from Charlie, who kept a list of those attending. That should provide news and names for our next issue. At this time, we can truly say that the turnout was fantastic. 
One of the suggestions made during the evening was to hold another off-year reunion after the Purdue game at ND on Sept 26, 1970. What is your opinion? We would need the help of the Midwest­emers to make it go over. May I hear from you on this? 
Chaiies A. Conley 
100 East Tumbull Ave. Havertown, Pa. 19083 
34 MAKE "EM JEALOUS This report to the Class of 1934 is being written on Oct 20, two days after the ND-Southem Cal game. My bride, Ariene, and I have seen the first five games. 

Saw JOSEPH E. QUARTUCH and his 

wife, Vicky, at the Purdue suae. 
Monsignor JIM MOSCOW drove to the 
Purdue game with us. We had m most 
enjoyable day, despite the loss. Saw 
JOHN CARR at the Michigan SUte game, 
along with ELI J. SHAHEEN. On 
the eve of the Army game, 
saw ROBERT CAHILL and WALTER 
J. KENNEDY dining in Toots Shor's. Got a glimpse of MOOSE KRAUSE and his son as they were heading for the press box before the game. 
I received two letters from JOE CLARK 

while he was in Ireland. He did a lot 
of promoting for ND while there. Joe and 
his new bride, Dorothy, now reside 
at 7IS-Three Allegheny Center, Pittsburgh, 
Pa. 15212. Phone number is 412-231-0608. 
I phoned two of my campaign managers, 

RAY TROY and JIM PAGAN, wfafle 
in New York. Ray runs two miles 
every morm'ng. LARRY J. "BUTCH" 
O'NEILL reports that he spent three days 
at ND early in September. His dau^ter, 
Erin, is a freshman at St. Mary's. 
Son, KEVIN '66, is with American Airiines 
in Buffalo, N,Y. "Butch" talked to 
Moose Kiause and JAKE KLINE while on 
campus for orientation. He is now director. 
Bureau of Health Education. 
WILLIAM M. DUSCH is stiU a free­lance artist. Bill writes he enjoyed our reunion. His plans were to attend the Michigan State game and visit friends at ND. The Alumni Assn. advises us of four changes in addresses: DONALD K. McINTOSH now resides at 731 Lincoln Ave., Winnetka, lU. 60093; ALBERT H. MONACELLI has moved to 1850 South Ocean Blvd., Pompano Beach, Fla. 33062; THOMAS F. RYAN can be readied at 21 Georgetown Square, Oeveland, Ohio 44143; ROBERT JACOBS STONE now located at 75 201 S. Magnolia, Anaheim, Calif. 92804. 
ROCKNE's 1930 team had a reunion at Randall's Inn over the Southern Cal weekend. Among those attending were ED AGNEW and HUNK ANDERSON. Ed is now with John P. Daleiden Co., Religious Gift Shop, 92 Center Mall, Old Orchard, Skokie, III. 
JACK QUIRK (109 S. Parkside, Chicago, 111., phone 312-378-8959) reports that ERWIN KIEP is back to work fuU time. Jack and his son attended the Southern Cal game and took a tour of the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Monsignor Jim Moscow is director of Catholic hospitals for the Archdiocese of Chicago. Father Jim has been appointed pastor of a new parish and must erect a church. If any of you are wondering where to send part of your year-end dividends, Jim can use a lot of them for the new church. Mail your checks in care of Sacred Heart Church, P.O. Box 292, Palos Park, lU. 60464. 
ARTHUR F. O'NEIL, board chairman of W.E. O'Neil Construction Co, is serving as president of the BuOdeis Assn. of Chicago and on the board of directors of the Building Construction Emi^oyees Assn. Art has been doing a tremendous job in negotiations with the coalition group here in Chicago. He has been seen on the front pages of all local newspapers and on TV regulariy. He certainly is the ri^t man to negotiate during these difficult times. 
FAUSTO "NICK" GAMBOA, formeriy of Havana, Cuba, has been woridng since 1961 in the ofiice of the attorney general 
for Illinois. He served under Attorney 
General William G. Oark for eight years 
and now serves under William Scott. 
Last June 14, we attended the beautiful 
wedding of Miss Maty Louise Gorman, 
daughter of JOHN P. GORMAN. John 
is an attorney here in Chicago. 
DANIEL J. BRICK wfll be in Palm 
Beach, Fla., for January, February and 
March and is looking for golf partners. He 
is listed in the phone book. Sorry to 
report that LOUIS C. BROWN died on 
Aug. 30. Louis lived in Tuscaloosa, Ala. 
Also sorry to report that JAMES M. 
MORRISON died on Aug. 11. He was 
the father of JAMES R. MORRISON, 
Hammond, Ind. 
I want to wish you and your loved 
ones a merry Christmas and a happy 
new year. 
Ed Moran 
Moran Supply Co. 
2501 N. Central Ave. 
Chicago, III. 60639 
•35 WE'LL DRINK TO THAT This column is being written in October— a few days after the Southern Cal draw. According to schedule, you should be receiving it just before the holidays, so in behalf of all the South Benders, our sincere wish for a healthful and happy Christmas and a sober new year. 
PAT FISHER wrote with the following information gleaned from his attendance at the Army game: He saw ADRIAN WACKERMAN, TOM WILLIAMSON and JIM SHEILS, all of whom said they would be at the reunion. (Note to our treasurer, ED SMITH—"That's 45 bucks, Ed.") At long last, someone tracked down Dr. SAVINO "BEANIE" CAVEN­DER. Savino returned from the Army as a full colonel and is now on the msdical staff of Reynolds Electric Co. His address is 2112 Barry Way, Las Vegas, Nev. 89106. (How about a note about yourself. Beanie—pretty |4ease!) 
Pat also saw ED CULLEN, ANDY MAFFEI and MIKE SANTULLI—all three regular attendees at our reunions. (Note to our treasurer: "Check your records, Ed—could be a source for another 45 bucks, but if I know those guys they kicked in a long time ago.") 
Pat sent a clipping he read from the Times about ED NEAHER's elevation to 
U.S. District Attorney for New York by President Nixon. Don't recall knowing Ed at school and cannot find his name listed in our recently published class roster. Be that as it may, we welcome Ed as a missing member of our class and hope he registers with the Alumni Office as such. Just a thought to you New Yorkers: Having a classmate as U.S. district attorney could come in handy—^you never know when! Suggest you urge him to join up and attend the reunion. According to the clipping Pat sent me, however, don't attempt to pay his $15 dues—^he is tough on matters like that Besides, sounds like he can easily afford to send $15 to our treasurer for the cheapest but best reunion "fixings" of any class— particulariy the class of '34. Ed can be reached at the law firm of Chadboume, Parke, Whiteside & Wolff, 25 Broadway. 
After the Southern Cal game PATRICK JOSEPH LYNCH JR. dropped in for a drink at our house. Joe is in Cincinnati with the Inmont Corp. Betty and Joe's 

Old faees • • • new plains 
Rev. John C. Blommestein OSC, after teaching for a year at the U. of Portland in Oregon following his 1967 retirement from ND, is now business manager for the U.S. province of the Crosier Fathers. He also handles their investments and sickness and retirement funds. From his base in Fort Wayne he visits other houses of his community and manages to drop in at brokerage offices in various cities, where he occasionally encounters alumni who had been his students in Money and Banking, Investments and allied courses in the economics department. He recalls that he got along well with his students and that there was seldom a dull moment in classes during his 16 years on the faculty. On the last day before Fr. Blommestein's retirement, the students brought in a huge cake with various stock quo­tations written on it in chocolate frosting. In green sugar was printed a favorite expression of his, one for which he was widely known among students and friends: "What the Sam Hill!" With the market the way it is, he probably calls on this safety valve rather frequently these days. 
James W. CuIIiton was dean of the College of Business Administration from 1955 to 1962 and was visiting professor for four years before that. Since June of 1968 he has been a visiting professor of Harvard Business School, living in Manila where he is administering a Harvard project, a Ford Foundation grant to three Filipino business schools: Ateneo de Manila, run by the Jesuits; De La Salle College, a Christian Brothers school; and the U. of the Philippines. The objective of the program is to help strengthen graduate business education there. In 1962 he resigned his dean's post at ND when appointed to a six-year 
son Pat is at Thomas More College in Kentucky—a prenied student Marcia is a secretary at Westlnghouse in San Antonio after graduating from Our Lady of the Lake. Joe said TOM STANDISH is still in Houston with the Lighting and Power Co. and that MITCH SALEH is with Ling-Temco-VoughL Joe is again coming to the reunion. How about you, Tom and Mitch? (Note to Ed Smith: "Another potential 45 bucks!") 
CAMILLE GRAVEL was in town several 
term on the U.S. Tariff Commission 
by the late President John F. 
Kennedy. (He recalls that on the 
telephone from the White House, the 
President's recruiter with great 
consideration suggested that he think 
it over for a while, "like until 2:00 
o'clock this afternoon.") Dean 
CuUiton reports that he and his wife, 
Jane, like the assignment very much 
and are "making many friends 
among the Filipinos, whose reputation 
for hospitality is well deserved." 
It is likely that he will remain in 
Manila until the expiration of the 
grant in 1971. After that? Periiaps 
back to Harvard, from whence he 
came to Notre Dame. 
A number of CSCs, once assigned to ND, now live in Holy Cross House on campus. Among them is Rev. James Connerton, Howard Hall prefect and director of the nationally known Moreau Seminary choir in the '30s. He later became first president of King's College, Wilkes-Barre, Pa., and was the first provincial superior of the Holy Cross Fathers' Eastern Province. He was then assistant to Rev. Patrick Peyton CSC in his Family Rosary Crusade and Family Theater, .^so living in Holy Cross House are: Rev. Patrick Dolan, towering prefect of discipline in the '30s, who spent many years on the mission band and as pastor of parishes in South Bend and Watertown, Wis.; Rev. Henry Geuss, prefect, rector, teacher of the classics from 1957-63, who became chaplain at Nazareth College, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Rev. Arthur Hope, author of Notre Dame—100 Years, who taught for some years in the mid-'30s and then worked on the archives and the Ave Maria magazine; Rev. Clement Kane, on the faculty and a prefect from 1952-59, who functioned on the home missions and as chaplain at boys' 
weeks ago in connection with the Law Center Program and is serving as vice-chairman of the campaign in his area. Must have been real busy because, to my knowledge, he didn't call any South Benders. Hope you are coming north in June, Camille. 
ART CONRAD has been re-elected to the board of directors of region three of the National Industrial Recreation Assn. —also is a national vice-president of the association. 
Father Blommesteat 
schools in California and Milwaukee; Rev. James Leahy, who was assistant to the president and prefect of discipline in the '40s and subsequently taught at the U. of Portland; Rev. John Lynch, associate prefect of religion from 1937-42, who became chaplain to the Medkal Mission Sisters in Philadeliriiia, associate director of vocations at Holy Cross Seminary, assistant in Family Rosary and Family Theater woric, pastor of a Burbank, Cal., parish, and chaplain for CSC Brothers at ND; Rev. John Margraf, Latin teacher and first rector of Howard Hall, who taught at St Edward's U., Austin, Tex., and at Portland and was pastor of parishes in Portland and South Bend and chaplain in hospitals in South Bend and Dowagiac, Mich. 
Rev. John Wilson CSC Box D Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 
Now about the "Rennion 70." You already know that Dr. JIM McCRALEY is the chainnan-^mlly! He has been begging for it for 20 years, and we South Benders conduded he had matured enough to take over this time. H K same group who put on the best reunions in ND history is still around—and ready to do the same again: PAUL FERGUS, KURT SIMON, Ed Smith. TOM HICKEY, FAL HARRIS, KARL FULNECKY, to name a few assistants to our duunnan. 

A resourceful artist 
Fall is always a hectic time of the year for artists and teachers. But if you happen to be both an artist and a teacher, as well as a lecturer, then things can get really hectic. And if you don't think so, ask Anthony John Sorce '61. 
SoFce is a painter and sculptor, an assistant professor of art at Pace College in New York City, and a gallery and museum lecturer for Gallery Passport Ltd. One of his sculptures, entitled "Totem," was recently selected for exhibit. in the second Flint Invitational at the Flint Institute of Art. Last month he received a commission from the 
John Sorce and his work. 
When I took this position four years ago, after FRANK. McGUIRE abdicated, I set forth one condition—^that I would never ask for money in my column (like only IS bucks for five years) to put on the best reunion of all classes. All 1 would agree to was that I would "allude" to our desperate financial condition. And I've kept that promise inviolate. 
rS. Our Treasurer Ed Smith's address is: 1649 E. Ewing Ave., South Bend, Ind. 46613. 
W. F. Ryan 1620 E. Washington Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46617 

Wichita Art Museum for a piece of sculpture and also a one-man show early in 1970. Other pieces of his work have already appeared at the 
O.K. Harris Gallery, the Visual Arts Gallery and the Graham Gallery. 
Most notable among his achieve­ments is the $6,000 Guggenheim Fellowship that he received for creative sculpture. "The fellowship allowed me to explore new materials for art purposes," remarks Sorce. "I was primarily involved widi the use of polyurethane rigid foam as a sculptural as well as a painting medium." 
Polyurethane foam is produced by 

'3S SnLL GOOD NEWS Will rush this in quick while all the news is good—^with exception of a few football scores. At the annual Purdue stumble, I met JOHNNY O'CONNOR waiting outside for his son, who was coming down for the game from Michigan law sdiool, where he rooms with PAUL NOWAK's son. Saw him again with BOB WHITE­COTTON at the So. Cal. game, where I also bumped into DANNY SULLIVAN, BILL HORAN and LEN SKOGLUND, all from Chicago vray. Man, if I had bumped into those three on old Cartier Field during football practice, I woiddn't have had any teeth or hair left ... I 
mixing two or more liquids which expand and harden to form a cellular structure. Color is added to the liquids before they are mixed or is painted on the foam after the foam has hardened. 
"To the best of my knowledge," says Sorce, "I was the first artist to employ polyurethane foam as a painting medium." He was also among the first to investigate the medium for sculptural purposes. Ex­amples of his work with this material will be featured in a forth­coming book. The Craftsman and Synthetic Materials, by Nicholas Roukes. 
Sorce began his study of art at the American Academy of Art in Chicago. He came to ND with the help of the former head of the art department, Stanley Sessler. Sessler recognized Sorce's talent and saw his inability to afford the tuition, so he allowed him to be eligible for an Ivan Mestrovic Studio assistantship. Sorce was one of a few students ever to work with Prof. Mestrovic while still an undergraduate. 
Sorce remained at ND for graduate work, M.F.A. '62, and then departed for Kalamazoo, Mich., and a teaching position at Nazareth College. From there he went to another Nazareth College in Rochester, N.Y., for a job on the faculty. In 1968 he was awarded the Guggenheim Fellowship and came to New York to set up his studio in the Greenwich Village area, where he also lives. 
Maybe you still don't think Sorce has a very hectic life. But how many of you are married to a girl who went to your alma mater's arch rival? What does he do when ND plays Michigan State? 
wonder if that's why, come to think of it. 
Got a letter from Rev. JOE RACE acknowledging request for Mass for BILL ARNOLD, who died last July as previously reported. Father Joe said he made the Northwestem game, met Paul Nowak and wife and CHUCK SWEENEY afterwards. GEORGE HOWARD and wife came from Washington, D.C., for the Northwestem game and gave me a call. George has a dau^ter on the international hospital ship, Hope, another at Loyola of Chicago, one married and a son in St John's High SchooL 
My ace reporter, DON HICKEY, extended himself again to cover the Tulane 
game and hit the jackpot in news. At 
the Sonesta Hotel he found a '38 doctors' 
reunion hosted by ART DAVIDSON, 
as good a medic now as he was piano 
player for the glee club. DENNY 
IMMANUEL, from Iowa, and DAN 
MONIHAN, from D.C., helped Art check 
the pulse of classmates ED KAV­
ANAUGH, ex-Modemaire virtuoso from 
Oklahoma; JOHN O'CONNOR, from 
Indianapolis; Bob Whitecotton, president of 
the (unincorporated) ND club—mem­
bership one—of (unincorporated?) New 
Ross, Ind.; JIM BEAUDWAY; LOUIS 
"PADUCAH" ANDERSON; JOHN 
PLOUFF; and BOB DUBOIS, of 
South Bend. 
That's it. One phone call, one letter 
and notes on back of three ticket stubs. 
By the time you read this, Helene and 
1 will have been to South America on a 
FlC study tour, staying with families 
in Brazil, Peru, Ecuador and Colombia, 
and if you '38ers don't start to send in 
more news, I'll be forced to delineate our 
adventures to save our parking space 
in this magazine. Maybe in Portuguese 
or Spanish, too. So make with the 
missives. Si, senors. 
Burnie Bauer 
1139 Western Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 4662S 
'40 NICE EXCUSE 
Life on campus is most interesting and 
quite active, so I missed an opportunity to 
visit with TOM FORD when he was 
here for a meeting of the Law School 
Advisory Council, of which Tom is 
cochairman. PAUL HELMUTH is also a 
member of this council, while GEORGE 
E. MORRIS '40L is president of the ND Law Assn., with DAN SULLIVAN as a director. 
Unfortunately, another of the men of °40 will not make our reunion next June. VINCENT A. DOYLE died Oct. 13 after a heart attack. Vince had been named president-elect of the Federal Bar Assn. and worked as an attorney for the legisla­tive reference service of the Library of Congress. BOB COONEY '30 informed me: "Vince was the writer of many speeches in the Congressional Record—not attributed to him." We assure Vince's wife, Gerdis, and his four children of our sincere prayers and offer condolences from all his classmates. 
Although I was present at all of the first five football games, finding those of you in the area was somewhat diflkult. Sitting next to CHUCK KELSEY at the Southern Cal game was a pleasant surprise. Saw GERRY SAEGERT, TOM FLAD and CURT HESTER after the Michigan State game and JERRY O'DOWD at St. Mary's after the Southern Cal game. Jerry and all the rest of the law students who spent four years with us, but did not receive their degrees until 1941, feel that they are really members of our class and I never considered them anything but that. 
Was unable to arrive sufficiently early to attend the New York Club pep rally for the Army game and missed seeing VIC VERGARA, HANK DOWD, JOE DeFRANCO, LEO SANTINI, JIM DANER and the ever-present Geriy Saegert. 
Our good class president, JACK HEN­EBRY, is eager for exceptional attend­ance at our 30th reunion on June 12, 13 and 14, 1970, and requests all of you 
to cooperate with the local committee he is 
organizing. All men of '40 with whom 
I have talked are most enthusiastic 
about the chance to get together again. 
Just to demonstrate the i^easure of 
reminiscing, let me list the names of some 
of the St. Mary's young ladies I have 
seen recently. All of them are married, but 
I'll just give their "college names." 
Do you remember Kay Houser, Bette 
Balliet, Virginia Wolf, Maij Hall, Man 
Hays, Mary Mayle, Ann, Dorothy and Sue 
Sheets or Nancy Sackley? Maij Hays 
was accompanied by her husband, BOB 
SAGGAU '41. I was quite upset to 
hear about the death of Mary O'Connor 
Cotter, and I want to express our sympathy 
to BILL "BUD" COTTER '41. 
ED SOMMERER, a South Bend resident, has been appointed national account manager in the automotive service division of the Bendix Automotive and Automation Co. GEORGE T. WILSON, vrith Douglass for 30 years, remains with McDonnell-Douglass as branch chief, support equipment and facilities development engineering, heading a group of 80 engineers. 
JIM DELAHANTY informs me that DICK BURKE is somewhat back on his feet and that both of them are looking forward to our reunion. Please let me know of your plans for the reunion because 1 want to report the names of as many of the returnees as possible. Early notification is necessary because of some of the deadlines for the ALUMNUS, so drop Shorty a card or note right this minute. 
Robert G. Sanford 
302 Rue Rabelais, Apt. 62 
South Bend, Ind. 466IS 
'42 KUDOS Our congratulations to Rev. PAUL E. WALDSCHMIDT, who has been elected a member of the Fellows of the Univeisity of Notre Dame. 
We very much appreciate the Alumni Office sending us some news on a few of our classmates. HARRY A. O'MEALIA JR., who resides with his wife, Joanne, and their four children in Middletown, NJ., has been elected vice-chairman of the Board of Regents at St. Peter's College, Jersey City, NJ. He is also president of the Outdoor Advertising Assn. Council of America. Harry also serves as chairman of the board of directors of the First National Bank of North Bergen, NJ., and has completed four terms as a member of the New Jersey Civil Rights Com­mission. In addition to these duties, Harry is a member of the board of directors of the United Fund, the Hudson Council, the Boy Scouts of America and the Judson Chapter of the American Red Cross. Congratulations on all of this wonderful work, Harry! 
Our best wishes go also to JOHN J. CLIFFORD, a special agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, upon his being named proctor and security officer at Colgate U. John started his new duties on Sept. 7. He and his wife and six children reside at IS Charles SL, Hamilton, N.Y. 
We hear that HAROLD SCHUMERTH has coached the Oshkosh High School Indian football team to the No. 1 spot in the state of Wisconsin three times in the past five years. This certainly is in the good old ND tradition! 
We are deeply saddened by the death of our classmate FRANCIS J. MEEHAN on Sept. 1. Frank is survived by his widow, Dorothy, 164 Highland Ave., Newton-ville, Mass., and by two sons and one daughter. A note about Frank from the Veiy Rev. ALBERT I. THOMAS CSC, now director of education in the Diocese of LaCrosse, states in part, "He and his wife. Dot, were married in the Log Chapd at ND after commencement when he entered the Army. I diall miss him. Dot is originally from Chicago, Our Lady Help of Christians parish there, and Frank met her at one of the dances on campus-Please recommend him to the prayers of the alumtii." Our condolences to Mrs. Meehan and the family; we shall remember Frank in our prayers. 
With the Christinas season fast approach­ing, we wish to extend to you and yours the happiest of holidays. May your faith be stronger, your hopes brighter and the new year filled with an abundance of the treasured gifts of life—good health, happiness and enduring friendships. 
Wilh'am M. Hickey 
5500 W. 73rd St 
Chicago, III. 60638 
'44 AN OTTIMIST Not only will a year end within the very near future, but it win mark the dose of a decade—the exciting, dfeturbing '60s. These past 10 years have been great and are oidy a prelude to the '705, which undoubtedly will see a continuation of the progress begun. It is a time for hope. The tide of Rev. Andrew Greeley's book—A Future to Hope In—should be a motto for all. 
Dr. RICHARD A. TERRY, an associate professor of industrial engineering and director of Oklahoma U.'s Systems Research Center, will spend the coming year in Ankara, Turkey, as visiting professor of psychology at the U. of Hacettepe. His wife. Dr. Inci I. Terry, a native of Turkey, will be adjunct professor of psy­chology and win do psychological aixl sociological research for the university. Upon their return in late 1970 they wiU go to Tulsa where he wiU serve as chairman of the department of pqrcfaology at the U. of Tulsa. 
JOHN W. McKENNA, Houston, Tex., was appointed purchasing agent for Humble Oil A Refining Co. in the pur­chasing section of the headquarters supply department 
Undoubteifly many of you have read of the leadership qualities expounded by fellow classmate MARK McGRATH (Archbishop Marco G. McGrath, of Panama) at the recent Synod of Bfehops in Rome. He, together with people like Rev. THEODORE HESBURGH and Rev. John McKenzie and Lady Barbara Ward Jackson, is one to whom the peoples of the world can look with encouragement and hope as these '70s begin. 
A very wetcome letter was received from class prexy FRANK VIGNOLA. He and his family were in New Orleans for the ND-Tulane game. The only '44er he encountered on the trip was JOE DILLON, who not only followed the team there but who had been in New York for the ND-Army game as wdl. Joe repixted that the get-together engineered by JOHN MURPHY at NYC's Prince Georte Hotel had been a real smasher. Unfortmiatdy, no direct report has been received on those activities, probably because 
'44er5 still are recuperating. 
On the homefront, Frank reported on a surprise birthday party for GENE PILAWSKI. STRATTE COORLAS and JIM PLATT also were on hand. Gene is president of the Polish Lawyers Society of Chicago and was instrumental in creating I.aw Day activities in Chicago area high schools. 
If you remember, during the reunion weekend Frank was extremely busy taking movies. The result is that he has a film available for '44 gatherings. The only stipulation is that it be returned to him within a fortnight. For details, contact Frank Vignola, 334 Sheridan Rd., Winnetka, HI. 60093. 
Recently, Frank commanded a Naval Air Reserve squadron at Glenview Naval Air Station. It was a culmination of 25 years of Naval Reserve activity which will end in retirement in '73. The only time his enthusiasm for the Navy ceases is during the 60 minutes of the annual ND-Navy game. 
May the blessings of the Christ Child come to all '44ers and their families, not only for the approaching holiday season but throughout the new year. May the true Christian spirit of peace and love flourish in the hearts of all men so that the decade of the '70s will be years of hope and progress. 
Joseph A. Neufeld P.O. Box 853 Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
'4t MAKE A RESOLUTION With 1969 rapidly coming to an end, I would like to wish all the members of the class of '46 a most enjoyable and spirited holiday season. Also, why not carry this spirit into 1970 by taking a little time to jot down some news for the next issue? 
PAUL E. ROCHE has been appointed manager of the new Springfield, Mass., office of the environmental engineering division of Gilbert Associates, Inc., engineers and consultants. 
TOM WARD is serving on the 75th anniversary committee of the John Crerar Library, Chicago. The library is a free public reference library of science, technology and medicine. 
While attending the ND-Army game in NYC I met my good friend and classmate NICK COMMISA. Nick looked just great and told me that he is still with the public school system in Newark, NJ. 
Peter P. Richiski 6 Robin Place Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
'4S A GOOD GUESS By way of the Alumni Office we have been advised that JIM NOLAN was recently promoted from second vice-president to first vice-president of the trust department at Continental lUinois National Bank and Trust Co. I think that is in Chicago! 
ROY A. JANN of Fairfield, Conn., who eariier this year was named Alumni Man of the Year by the Notre Dame Club of Fairfield, has also recently been named assistant general manager of the Raybestos division of Raybestos, Manhattan. Since 1949 Ray has served in various sales positions with the company and prior to this recent promotion he was factory manager. Ray, his wife and seven children live in Fairfield. 

JOE O'TOOLE has been elected president 

of the Myrick Equipment Co. with 
headquarters in Los Angdes. Since 
graduation Joe has always been in heavy 
equipment, and before heading West his 
business in East Orange, NJ., was known 
as OToole's Tool Works. . 
At the Army-ND game the foUowing were seen and found to be alive and wdl: LEO COSTELLO, BUNKY REAGAN, JACK COONEY, HANK DiGIROLAMO, JIM LEDWITH, NEIL KELLY, GENE DEAN, BILL BRACKEN, DOM MOFFO, LARRY O'CONNOR, RUSS FARRELL, GEORGE OLVANEY, JIM MELLO. And probably a few more I missed. 
With this issue we are cleaning up the backlog of information available and we are current again. That means we have nothing on hand for the next issue. 
George J. Keenan 
177 Rolling HOls Rd. Clifton, NJ. 07013 
'49 WISHES DONT COUNT Just returned from that tingling Southern Cal game. I saw that ball fait the crossbar but couldn't quite wish it across. Scottie will whip them yet. Joan and I and a couple of our boys, Tom atid Paul, enjoyed a great football weekend, viewing the campus and visiting widi Rev. WILLIAM NEIDHART. What a gracious host! Father Bill showed us the Athletic and Convocation Center. That alone justifies a trip to campus. Tremendous sight! Makes our local War Memoiial Sports Center look like an afterthought. 
We spotted PETE KERNAN and that tall redheaded son of his heading up the stadium steps at game's end. Too far away to hear our call. Had a chat with MARTY LALLY in the stands just before kickofT. Marty is a "wheel" with Eastman Kodak here in Rochester and insists that, after your SUMMA pledge is completed, you might throw a couple of dollars into Kodak stock. "Many new developments out there!" That's what the man said! 
I received a very sad communication from CHARLES LUGTON '4S informing us of the death on Sept 21 of JACK SWEENEY, fiom Los Alamos, N.M. Jack died while playing in a father-son tennis tournament at Los Alamos. He was employed by the U. of California's Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory as an administrative assistant in the weapons division. He had been an avid member of the Los Alamos Tennis Oub and was very active for the local Democratic party, serving on its central committee as wdl as serving Los Alamos as a constable for two terms. I know you will join roe in my prayers for Jack, his wife, MarQyn, his son, John Jr., his daughter, Maiy Anita, and all his family. 
A fine letter reached me from the U. of Missouri, SL Louis, signed by GEORGE WITTEREID. George is associate professor for industrial relations and just last spring completed his first book. Labor Relations and Colleclive Bargaining. 
(Might be helpful to send a copy to General Electric.) George was very happy to announce that his wife, after years of attending nearby colleges, has attained her goal—a college degree with > major in math—and the distinction of having the highest average in the class! Plaudits to you both! 
Some "latest news" notes just passed on to me from the Alumni Office (God bless 'em!): FRANK MACHNIKOWSKI is working for the Federal Government in Chicago as a research specialist in the statistics department. Frank dropped a note saying he missed the reunion proper but did manage to see JOE NAUMAN, JOHN CAEMMERER and others just as they were leaving on June 8. Spotted TOM REILLY who, Frank says, has that look of affluence and the couide of extra pounds that go with it. Frank also mentioned that, a few months back, FRANK LEAHY visited his office while on a Chicago TV project and they had a wonderful, though short, chat. 
And another new appointment for DELMONT V. SHALLER. Del was just made assistant manager of Indiana and Michigan Electric Co.'s Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant, which is under construc­tion near Bridgman, Mich. I am a little familiar with the size and scope of a similar plant just being completed here in Rochester, and judging from it, Del has considerable responsibility before him. 
This issue brings 1%9 to a close and gives me an opportunity to thank all who contributed in any way to the development of this column. Your letters, notes and memos have been most pleasant surprises throughout the year. I can assure you that high on my list of Christmas wishes for the coming year are the blessings of health and success for you, your families and associates, as well as a continuing supply of cards from all the '49ers, particularly those who have not been in touch with us recently. 
Believe me! A post card is sufficient. I'll make it sound like a book! Merry Christmas! 
Leo L. Wesley 
155 Driftwood Lane 
Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
'» AND MAY YOU .... By the time this goes to press, we will be looking forward to the Christmas holidays. May you and all of your loved ones have a happy and holy Christmas and new year. 
And may you all plan to attend our 20th reunion next June 12-14. And may you all give me more infor­mation for the class column—like now. 
FRANK D. WHALEN joined the psychology faculty at Saint Lawrence U. He was the assistant professor of psychology at the Allegheny Community College and has also served on the faculty at Washington and Jefferson College in the 
U. of Pittsburgh. Rev. DON DERIVEAUX has returned to the home diocese of Natchez-Jackson, Miss., to work as a diocesan priest He entered the Trappist Abbey of Gethsemane, Ky., after our junior year at ND and has been there until recently. His work now is as an assistant pastor of Our Lady of Victoiy Church, Pascagoula, Miss. 
ROBERT SCHLOSSER's oldest son, R. Joseph, has begun this past fall at ND. PIERRE A. ESPENAN M.D. was elected secretary-elect of the Southern Medical Assn.'s section on industrial medicine and surgeiy. He is a partner in Houston, Roy, Faust, Ewin, Espenan, Martz & Duim, a group of industrial surgeons and medical specialists in New Orleans. 
Lt Col. ROBERT BOSLER has assumed the position of deputy commander of the 631st Combat Support Croup at Don Muang Royal Thai AFB, Thailand. JAMES 
J. CROWE has been appointed as assistant general sales manager of Detroit Diesel Engine Division, General Motors Corp. 
ROBERT SIERON is with Amoco Chemicals Corp., the chemical arm of Standard Oil of Indiana, and was recently promoted to general manager of the commercial development and planning department, plastics division. ART FRERICKS has a new address at 4600 Old Mill Rd., Fort Wayne, Ind. ERNEST KIRSTEIN and family have moved to 10 Crestwood Ave., Fairfield, NJ. 
JOHN GOOSSENS was elected Grand Knight of the Rev. Thomas J. Judge Scotia Council 4360, Knights of Columbus. He has lived in Scotia, N.Y., for nine years with his wife and three children. He is employed in silicone products department of the General Electric Co., Waterford, 
N.Y. RICHARD CLEARY has been named resident manager of the Detroit office of Bache & Co., Inc., the nation's second-largest brokerage firm. The Detroit operation is one of the biggest of Bache's offices. He was assistant vice-president manager of Bache in South Bend and has been active in local affairs there. He was past-president and director of the ND Club of Saint Joseph Valley and received the ND End of the Year Award in 1968. He has four children. 
JAMES A. KING is a member of the organization that has played a major role in the Apollo 11 lunar landing mission. He is an aerospace engineer in the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville, Ala. The Saturn V rocket that lifted Apollo 11 was developed under the direction of the Marshall Center, NASA's largest organization. 
JOSE GONZALEZ was appointed by Gov. Preston Smith of Tex. to the nine-man State Manpower Advisory Committee. Chester Wysocki was appointed to the new position of thin film engineer by Transidyne General Corp., of Ann Arbor, Mich. He assumed responsibility for the development, application and production of thin film strain gauges and pressure transducers. 
JOSEPH GALLOWAY was promoted to the newly created position of super­visor of maintenance engineering at the in­dustrial photo division plant in Binghamton, N.Y., the G.A.F. Corp., and he, his wife, Jean, and their three children live in suburban Chenango Bridge. JOHN TUITT has the University Travel Service on campus at the U. of Connecticut, as well as operates a drugstore there; and his children are Francis (14), John (12), Mary (11) and Betty (9). He dropped in for a pleasant visit with us. My wife's brother. Rev. TOM SEELEY CSC, on a sabbatical until next June, is staying at Saint Frances de Paula Rectory, 7820 S. Dobson Ave., Chicago, while attending the 
U. of Chicago, should you like to give him a ring. 
While in Dallas for the ABA convention, we had a fine time with Bill and Billie Kirschner. Bill is the vice-president of New Jersey Bell, and Billie is associate general counsel of Prudential. 
You all no doubt have received our class mailing list from the Alumni Office. Let me know of any current addresses of those on the long list entitled "Mail returned unclaimed" so that we can keep them advised and give everybody the chance to come to our 20th reunion in June. 
John W. Thornton 4400 Monserrate St. Coral Gables, Fla. 33146 
•51 THATS A TITLE DON JORDAN writes from Puerto Rico, where he was recently appointed assistant chief, Caribbean district, water resources division, U.S. Geological Survey, San Juan, Puerto Rico. Before his transfer to Puerto Rico in 1965, Don was project leader in the Virgin Islands, where he lived on St. Thomas for three years. Don and Mary Jane have two children, Mary Beth (13) and Mark (11). Their home address is: Calle Segovia 12-10, Urb. Torrimar, Bayamon, Puerto Rico 00619. 
Also heard from DAN CONNELL, who pulled up stakes in South Bend to prac­tice law in Saginaw, Mich., where he is now senior assistant city attorney. His wife, Dolores, and two children will enjoy Michigan, and we will provide a home address if Dan forwards it Dan emphasizes he will be back in South Bend for the reunion in 1971. 
FRED BAUMGARTNER now lives at 112 Reddington Court, Camarillo, Calif. 93010. Fred is supervising engineer at the Oxnard office of Walter Dorwin Teague Associates, the industrial design firm. He and Nan have six children rang­ing from 6 to 17 years of age. They are: Mary Anne, Kathy, Jeanne, Fred Jr., Nancy and Ruth. 
Also heard from ED MEAGHER, who is still a vice-president for marketing with Amperex and is now overseeing the new integrated circuits operation. He and Nancy had a son, Peter, on June 1, which makes number six. 
The Scripture lesson for this time is: "Make friends with the mamas of propinquity." Because of the dearth of news from the papas, we would appreciate any note scribbled by a mama (or a girl friend .. . or other affiliate) bringing news of our classmates. 
Jim Jennings 
Borg-Warner Corp. 
200 S. Michigan Ave. Chicago, 111. 60604 
'52 YOU SURE? ROBERT H. MOONEY JR.'s family "has 
stabilized at eight boys and three giris." 
He is working in new position at 
Oldsmobile as director of manufacturing 
engineering and lives in Lansing, Mich. 
CHARLES E. SCHAEFFER has been elected trust officer at Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Co., Chicago. 
EUGENE F. GERWE, a specialist in estate planning, taxation and philanthropy, was named director of income trusts and bequests on the development staff of the California Institute of Technology. He is responsible for the institute's program for encouraging contributions to Cal Tech through deferred gifts. 
MICHAEL F. KELLY, formeriy director of real estate for the J. L. Hwlson Co., Detroit, Mich., was appointed to vice-president—Real Estate Management of Shopping Centers, Inc. He has responsi­bility for planning and executing a coordinated program for Shopping Centers, Inc., and Hudson-Webber Realty Co., designed to acquire additional land for future devdopmenl, accelerate the development of present landholdings and develop markets for certain older propeities. At the same time, SCI win become managing agent for all the J. L. Hudson Co. real estate Interests, which will also be Kdly's responsibility. 
GEORGE BROWN Mew into town for the Michigan State game, loaded with banners and dieers for old ND. He led the cheering in his section and was responsible for at least two scores. George has his own insurance agency in Beaver Falls, Pa. (the new capitd city, according to a fellow by the name of Namath). He welcomes all 'S2ei5 to share his home with him and his wife and five kids whenever you're in town. Along with George came JACK LABOE M.D. and his wife. Jack is still living in Monroe, Mich., with his eight dau^ters. He is Monroe's finest dentist and is still giving discounts to customers over 80 accom­panied by their parents. 
Jetting in from Dallas for the Southern California game was my nephew, BOBBY CHENERY. Dressed in white flare-bottom pants, sideburns and medium-long hair, he was an instant hit at the St Joe County airport Bobby is associated with Lake Highlands High School in Dallas. He tramped the campus from Rockne Memorial to the new Athletic and Convocation Center and felt that a good job was being done. The pep rally on Friday night was a real highlight If that kick coidd oidy have been six inches higher. 
Our good man in Providence, R.I., PHIL TOOLE, is leading all fund raisers on the current SUMMA drive. Phil is now shooting for 300 percent of target 
if any of you grads have a few minutes during the yide time, drop the class secretary a Christmas caird and let him know what's happening in your area. 
William B. King 
613 E. Donmoyer Ave. South Bend. Ind. 46614 
'S5 rrS UNANIMOUS One unanimous vote came out of the football reunion—we want a record turnout for Reunion '70, so start making plans now! 
Had a good turnout of Indiana peojrie at the Inn after the USC game. Included were: FRANK BURKE, 935 aaybum Dr., Fort Wayne, a CPA with Dek Processes; PAUL MILLER, 6400 Alameda Dr., Evansville, purchasing manager for Whiripool; DICK GAUTHIER. 9027 Parrish, Highland, an officer at the Bank of Lansing; JACK EVRARD, 24th and Franklin Hill, Tell City, an insurance magnate: JOHN FOLEY, 5650 Pleasant Run Pkwy., Indianapolis, Dura Container; and LEE CREAN, 14082 State Rd. 23. Granger, newly appointed administrative assistant to Gov. Edgar Whitcomb and director of Indiana Civil Rights Commis­sion. Your first assignment Lee, is getting that toll road moving on game weekends. 
Included in the Michigan contingent were ED RHOMBERG, 17340 WBdemere, Detroit an associate professor of civil engineering at the U. of Detroit; DICK CONDIT, 210 Warrington, Bloomfidd Hills, an attorney and optimist who is expecting a girl In January after four boys; BOB VOYT, 2548 Glenside Blvd., Muskegon, sales engineer for American 

Setting a fast pace 
and TV at each game. Even St. Mary's College is represented. One of the Pacers' biggest fans is Hannah Grasberger Storen SMC '58, Mike's wife. Mike and Hannah have one daughter and two sons, adding more support to the Pacers. 
Mike was recently named vice-president of the Pacers and a member of the board of directors. In building a team that has become the cornerstone of the ABA, he has won the favor of the owners, the players and the fans, but not his wife. Like many women, she is apt to judge players more on their smiles than on their talent. When he traded Mike Lewis he came home and was greeted with "Oh, how could you trade that cute Mike Lewis?" 
After trading another player, she wouldn't speak to him for days. "If my wife had my job," remarks Mike, "I don't know how many games we would win, but we'd sure have the cutest team in the league." 
Few teams in either the National or American Basketball Assns. are lucky enough to have fans as loyal and enthusiastic as those in Indiana. But only one team has the good fortune to have a man like Mark "Mike" Storen '57 as its general manager. 
Described by Sports Illustrated as "the league's most perceptive executive," Storen came to the In­dianapolis Pacers of the ABA when the team was formed prior to the 1967-68 season. "We gave Mike a free hand," says Dick Hinkham, one of the organizers of the team, "and we've been patting ourselves on the backs ever since." 
Storen quickly established a reputation for shrewd dealing. He signed two of the NBA's first- and second-round draft choices. After helping make the Pacers one of the top teams in the young ABA, he then helped lure in an average 
Spring Co.; ED PREIN, 4991 Bluff NE, Grand Rapids, who recently opened his own engineering firm and welcomed a third daughter; BERNIE McCLOREY, 34919 Wood Dr., Livonia, recently appointed general counsel for a large Detroit-based insurance company; and JIM CAHILL, 516 Lakeside Dr. NE, Grand Rapids, the financial wizard of Grand Rapids Label Co. 
JIM WATERS introduced his bride, Joan. They live at 12000 Old Georgetown Rd., Rockville, Md. Jim, who is with the government, received his master's from the U. of Oregon in 1960 and is a part-time professor at American U. in Washington. Also on hand were ED SCHICKLER, 990 Pear Tree Lane, Webster, N.Y., who is with Kodak, and LOU MONTEIL, 3517 Phelps Rd., Independence, Mo., who is the leading retail grocer in the Southwest. 
JERRY PRASSAS was the happiest guy there, since Gail had delivered their first daughter, Kathleen, the day before. They now live at 1363 Ashland Lane, Wilmette, 111. Others who came in from Illinois include EMMET CASSIDY, 19122 Center Ave., Homewood, assistant superintendent for People's Gas Co. in Chicago; BOB CAFFARELLl, 20851 Sparta Lane, Olympia Relds, who recently opened the law firm of Caffarelli & Wiczer at 104 S. Michigan Ave., Chicago; JACK BATTEL, 1206 S. Salem Lane, Ariington Heights, marketing manager for the Chicago & North Western Ry.; CHUCK DOHERTY, 1313 N. Park Ave., River Forest, back in Chicago in the brokerage business; PAT DiPASQUALE, 2606 Ridge Rd., Bloomington, newly appointed director of graduate studies in EngUsh 
of 6,109 spectators to watch them play. This put the Pacers on top of the attendance race in the ABA and fifth-best in all pro ball. 
Mike is a native Hoosier from Michigan City. He came to Notre Dame in 1953, and after graduating with an English major in '57 he entered the Marine Corps. For five years he was in the corps and attained the rank of captain. U[>on his departure from the Marines he made his debut in professional sports as promotion director of the Baltimore Bullets. Two years later he went to Cincinnati to become business manager of the Cincinnati Royals. 
Notre Dame is well represented on the Pacers. Jay Miller '65 was recently acquired from the Los Angeles Stars to play forward. Larry Staverman, former ND assistant coach, is doing some scouting for the team as well as doing the radio 
at Illinois State U. in Normal; TOM 
•GOOD GUY" HICKEY, Box 107, Mandrade Dr., Batavia, marketing manager for IBM in Chicago (has seven great kids); and JOE DONOVAN, R.R. 1, Illiopolis, who owns half the state and pleads "send money." 
MIKE KELLY, NEAL HALLORAN, LOU ZEFRAN and JERRY HILLSMAN told one and all that the next meeting of Organization '55 will be held Jan. 14 at Lattner's in Marina City. Other dates are March 12 and May 19. 
Condolences to JIM BARRY on the death of his mother. Jim had his usual group in tow at the reunion. Class President DICK BURKE was pumping hands as if he were going to run again. Other familiar faces seen around the campus were JACK FLYNN, FRANK MAIER, GEORGE SHELTON. DICK COOK, FRANK LOLLI, GEORGE ROONEY, JUNIOR STEPHENS, JOHN HESTER, TOM ARMSTRONG, TOM GALLIGAN, JOHN HARTIGAN, JERRY GROARK, JACK GITS, JOE KEARNEY, JOHN WEITHERS, PHIL SHERIDAN and DON FREUND. 
Frank Maier's cohort at the Chicago Daily News, BILL CLEMENTS, was a member of the Dflily News investigative staff that won the first place award from the Illinois A.P. for its coverage of stock transfers by members of the state Supreme Court. 
JOHN LOCHT, a major in the Air Force, has received the Distinguished Flying Cross in Southeast Asia. He now is assigned as an air operations ofiScer at the Tactical Air Command, Eglin AFB, Fla. 
JOHN MISKEL has been appointed 

Mark Storen, an avid but tired-looking Pacers fan. 
director of research and development laboratories of the Nopco Chemical division of Diamond Shamrock Chemical Co., Newark. ED TOOMEY, who received the profile treatment in a recent ALUMNUS, along with Rev. JOE O'DONNELL. served as chairman of the second annual John F. Kennedy Symposium on Recent Advances in Medicine and Surgery in Boston. 
CARROLL DOWDEN is associate editor 
of Medical Economics. The old humorist, 
JOHN O'BRIEN, now a Florida psy­
chiatrist, stopped in to visit another medical 
man, JOHN RYAN, after a football game. 
Did I report that JERRY BRANSFIELD 
recently welcomed his fifth, John Patrick? 
Get that car pool set up for the 
reunion . . . now! 
Paul Fullmer 
1922 Larkdale Dr. 
Glenvicw, 111. 6002.S 
•55L CASE HISTORIES WILL POLLARD returned to Kansas City, Mo., after his graduation and has become a topflight trial lawyer with the firm of Williams, Norton & Pollard. He has been active in the Kansas City and American Bar Assns. and in 1967 was admitted to practice before the U.S. Supreme Court. Will is married to Willa Dean and has a 12-year-old daughter. 
Our own BILL NYE was city judge in Elkhart, Ind., from 1960 to 1963. Prior to this time he was deputy pro.secutor for two years. Presently, Bill is in the general practice of law in Elkhart and is the happy father of six children. Nice to hear from you, judge! 
After graduation, LOU BASSO reported to the Air Force for duty in Okinawa, where he spent two years as judge advocate and was involved in over 150 special and general courts-martial. His wife, who was with him in the Far East, gave birth to their first child there in 1957. After discharge from the Air Force in late 1957, Lou represented the Wayne County Road Commission, which handled the representation of the Detroit Metropolitan Airport, among other matters. He left the road commission in 1960 and became associated with Berry, Moorman & King in Detroit, where he remained until 1965 when he entered private practice in Birmingham and formed his present firm, known as Wilson, Basso, Appleford & Keller, with offices in Detroit and Birmingham. Lou's work is principally in the tax and corporate fields. 
JIM KELLY worked as counsel for the Chicago Title and Trust Co. for nine years after graduation, specializing in the expansion phase of this national title company. With this background, Jim moved in 1964 over to Grant-Holladay Construction Corp., becoming a partner in its construction activities. Grant-Holladay is a large national company which builds, develops and owns extensive garden-type apartments, townhouses and nursing homes. Jim is part owner of over 2,800 apartment units and 463 nursing home beds. Needless to say, these diversified interests keep Jim constantly on the go around the country. 
Another Air Force officer was ANDY WALSH, who spent his first two years after graduation as a staff judge advocate at Goodfellow AFB, Tex. After separation from the service in 1957, Andy spent three years with Haskin & Sells in St. Louis, transferring to the New York office in 1960, where he spent six years specializing in taxation. Andy joined the brokerage firm of Dempsey-Tegeler & Co., Inc., in 1966, where he is employed as general counsel and assistant secretary. As house counsel, his duties are various and sundry, dealing principally with the rules and regulations of the SEC, NASD and the New York Stock Exchange. Quite an interesting field! He is a CPA and has membership in the American Institute of CPAs, Missouri State Society of CPAs and the New York State Society of CPAs, and he is a member of the Missouri Bar. Andy presently resides in St. Louis with his wife and five children. 
John P. Coyne 
810 National City Bank Bldg. 
Cleveland, Ohio 44114 
•56 REPORT ON REUNION The first after-game reunion ever for our class was a rousing success. More than 75 of our classmates together with wives gathered together after the Southern Cal game in the cafeteria of the new Center for Continuing Education to reminisce about old times and to bring each other up-to-date on the happenings in their lives. A plentiful supply of liquid refreshment was on hand, together with some tasty hors d'oeuvres. thanks to the efforts of our classmates on the campus who handled the local arrangements, namely class VP JIM MASSEY, Rev. TOM CHAMBERS. AL SZEWCZYK, DON SNIEGOWSKI and RON WEBER. Class Prexy LEO LINBECK flew in Friday night for a meeting of the class officers and helped with the party arrangements but had to leave before game time to fly back to Houston, where his parents were being knighted that evening in the Papal Order of the Holy Sepulchre. Leo did get to see quite a few classmates around campus Saturday morning. 
Jim Massey reports that $435 was collected at the door, and the money is expected to just about meet the reunion costs. His informal survey of tho.se attending brought out the facts that the after-game reunion was greatly enjoyed by all and should be made an annual event. The class officers agreed, and next year's reunion will be held after the Purdue game on Sept. 26. Mark your calendar now, and don't forget to order tickets. 
Other of our classmates who signed their names legibly enough to be deciphered at the Southern Cal reunion were: TONY BALAVITCH, ROLAND BERN­HOLD, PAUL BERRETTINI, LUKE BRENNAN, LOU BONUCCl, JOHN BRODERICK, DICK BROWN, MAL­COLM BURNETT, MARK BURNS, TOM CAPLET, DON CARLIN, JOHN CASEY, TONY CASTORINA, DICK CLARK, JOHN COLLINS, ED COS­GROVE, DICK CROWLEY, GEORGE DAILY, GORDON DiRENZO, ED DOMINGUEZ, JOE DONOVAN, TOM DONOVAN, VINCE FALZARANO and JOHN FANNON. 
Also, JIM FINNEGAN, DAVE FUR­LOW, JERRY HIGGINS, BOB HOFACRE, DAVE HUBER, PAUL HURLEY, TOM JEFFERS, JOHN KEGALY, JOHN KENNEDY, JOHN M. KENNEDY, PHIL KRAMER, BOB LECKOWSKI, ROY LUCKETT, JOHN MANION, TOM 
MANN, RENO MASINI, JOHN MASS­
MAN, BOB MCGOLDRICK, TOM 
MCNEILL, JERRY MCPARTLIN, JIM 
MENSE, DICK MERKEL, DICK 
MILLER, JIM MILOTA, CHET 
MITCHELL, Rev. MIKE MOONEY, DON MOSER, DAN OSHEA, DICK O'CON­NOR, JOHN PHELAN, TOM POWERS, Rev. JOHN RAUB, MIKE REGAN, BOB RICHARD, TIM ROHRER, BOB SALVINO, JIM SASSO, DON SCHAE­FER, TONY SILVA, BILL STOTZER, MASON SULLIVAN, PAUL UEBELHOR, BERNIE VAN ETTEN, JOHN WEST­HOVEN, MARTY WHALEN, PHIL WHITE and JOE YAEGER. 
FRANCIS ANTHONY ORLANDO received his M.B.A. degree from the U. of Akron on June 15. JAMES K. DEGNAN was elected to the board of managers of the Harmonia Savings Bank, Elizabeth, NJ. Jim is a securities and bond analyst with Saloman Brothers & Hutzler, New York. DAVID N. PFAFF has founded a new company to develop and publish statistical and other data in Naples and Collier Counties, Florida. His firm, the Dorsue Co., Inc., has published the first issue of its Naples-Collier County Fact-letter, a monthly report of development and growth information. 
Christmas greetings to each of you and your families. 
Eugene P. O'Connor 656 Ellicott Square Bldg. 
Buffalo, N.Y. 14203 
'58 A NICE PROBLEM Due to an unusual abundance of news, we have more than we can use for this issue, so we will report as much as we can and hold the rest for later. 
TONY GONZALEZ is busily involved with Mondtagon Industries, a family-owned company holding distribution rights in the Philippines for Tupperware, as well as Dial Soap and beauty products; he is married to former Patsy Sevilla and has one daughter, with another child expected around Christmas. Eager to see any classmates who happen to visit his area, which isMakati, Rizal. 
JIM STEINTRAGER is now in Winston-Salem, N.C., with Wake Forest U. as associate professor of political science; recently spent two years in England as a postdoctoral fellow in the Society for Religion and Higher Education; married and has a daughter (8) and a son (S). 
GEORGE K. OMARTIAN, commonly known as the "Rug Maker" at ND, is still single! But he admits to slowing down a little bit more each Sadie Hawkins Day. He is now building houses. Would like to know the whereabouts of JACK "TIGER" MURRAY. 
CLIFFORD A. JOHN JR. received 
M.B.A. in 1962 from U. of Detroit. Married —wife, Mary Angela—and has five children, four boys and one girl. Presently is purchasing manager for the Chrysler Tank plant. 
C.W. BOZNANSKI married Miss Linda Danlevich April 12 in Orange, Calif. 
JAMES J. SCHERER moved to Denver, Colo., from Yap, W. Carolines, after five and a half years. He is vice-president of Trans Western Petroleum, Inc., Denver company setting up chain of convenience food stores with self-service. Had third child, a boy, bom Feb. 14. He now has two boys and one giri. 
JIM LENOX writes: "Now living in Mt. Lebanon, Pa., just outside of Pittsburgh. Self and wife. Gay (Gay Dicerto SMC '57), have four children—Stephen, our oldest, is enjoying camp at South Bend YMCA's Camp Eberhart. We keep in touch with CHARLES E. WOOD, my former room­mate from Walsh Hall. Chuck and his wife, Maleta, have one son, Darin, our godson. Am visiting the campus today with another godson, Franky Frucci III, from Niles, Mich. We frequently hear from FRANK HEINZE, who lives in New Jersey with wife, Carol, and family. Frank is with American Cyanamid and has been very busy. I'm relocated again with the Manufacturers Life Ins. Co. as office manager." 
JAMES G. DAVIS just transferred back to Marshfield, Wis., from Vancouver, Wash., with Weyerhauser Co. as branch controller. After two years of intensive research he is prepared to say there is no foundation for the rumor that football's played in the Pacific Northwest 
Dr. BERNARD McGIVERN JR. moved to new home on Staten Island in November, 1968. New address is Westenlty Rd., Country Club Grounds, Staten Island, N.Y. 10304. PracUce of oral surgery going very well on Staten Island. Has been promoted to attending rank in four of the six hospitals and is con­sultant to the U.S. Public Health Service. Has also been active in hobby of breeding and showing dogs. Currently has four champions. Three are Hungarian Vizslas and one is a German Shorthaired Pointer field champion. 
WILLIAM T. LYNCH received a Master of Arts degree in electrical engineering from Princeton U. this past June. ROBERT JOSEPH SENECAL's new address is: 1219 W. 28th Ct., Lawrence, Kan. 66044. July 1 he accepted the position of associate director of statewide academic extension for the board of regents of the state of Kansas. Both he and his wife received Ph.D. degrees in Higher Education at U. of Iowa. 
Maj. THOMAS J. TRACE is commander of Roanoke Rapids AF Station, N.C. He was recently promoted to the rank of major and is commander at the 632nd Radar Squadron. He has received the Armed Forces Services Medal, Air Force Longevity Service Award, Air Force Outstanding Unit Award and the Air Force Commendation Award. 
CHARLES J. LESAGE JR. has been appointed stalT cardiologist of the Colorado-Wyoming Regional Medical Program (RMP). He will be involved in the development of a new comprehensive cardiac care project which is designed to expand and improve the continuing education of physicians, nurses and other health-care personnel who deal with heart disease in Colorado and Wyoming. The ultimate goal of the project is improved care of heart patients in the two states. 
ALBERT DEL CASTILLO works in central offices of Esso Colombiana at Bogota (an affiliate of New Jersey Standard Oil Co.). Works with other ND alumni. 
E.A. lANNI writes: "Have completed requirements for doctorate at Illinois State U., except final acceptance of disserta­tion. Am presently head of Department of Education at St. Procopius College, Lisle, 111." 
MATTHEW M. GROGAN had an important role in the Apollo 11 lunar landing mission. He is an aerospace technologist in the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Maimed Spacecraft Center in Houston. ROBERT 
N. WARD received an M.A. in the Teaching of Social Sciences from Western Michigan U., Kalamazoo, Mich. GERALD W. HAYES JR. was named product manager for the Speny division of General Mills, national pnxliicer of consumer products. 
A merry Christmas to all and best wishes for the new year! 
Arthur J. Roule Jr. 
1610 W. Fifth SL LaPorte, Ind. 46350 
'ML ANY DESIRES? Do we have any desire for a 10-year reunion for a football weekend next year? We can look to the class of 'S9L for setting a good example. Not only did they happen to pick the best game of the year (Southern Cal) but they had a full weekend of planned activity (Friday night through Saturday night). The key to its success was much advance i^aiiniiig. 
Failing a response to this plea for indications of interest, or lack thereof, we'll try the mass-mailing, direct approach. Then you can have your respective secretaries do the work and write me a letter. 
We probably coidd use geographical area representatives to prod the rest of you clods to do something. How about JOE MARINO for the East Coast, AL KAELIN on the West Coast and JACK KUBIAK helping me for all points in between? Talk about the Chicago Bears being 11 blocks of granite when it comes to doing something! 
John A. DiNardo 450 Oakland Dr. Highland Park, 111. 60035 
'62 GOOD-LOOKING WIVES The Michigan State game saw hordes of '62ers descend upon the Morris Inn for both a pre- and postgame party. From the representative sampling of our class­mates there, 1 cannot believe that such a homely bunch of guys could possibly marry such a beautiful group of girls. A shocking revelation. 
That particular weekend saw six coujdes spend a few days as guests of JOHN MACHECA and wife, Jeanne, at their cottage on Lake Michigan. Yours truly and wife. Merrily, accompanied the Machecas from D.C. Motoring in from Chicago was EARL LINEHAN with Darielle, the mother of his three sons. STEVE WEIDNER and MIKE HARRON showed that they used their fifth year at ND to good advantage. Their wives, Kate and Theresa, were roommates at St Mary's, Class of 1%5. Steve is practicing law in his home town of Waterioo, Iowa, while Mike, living in Minneapolis, is flying for Northwest Aiilines after being awarded two Distinguished Flying Crosses for. missions he flew In Vietnam. BOB BIOLCHINI received the long^&tance award, as he and wife, Fran, came up from the land of oil, Tulsa. 
As mentioned, many others were seen imbibing at the Morris Inn, indnding ED LARKIN and JOE DUFFY. Ed came up from Hamilton. CHiio, ii4iere be runs a car dealership. VINCE HARTIGAN and wife, Kitty, came down from Evanston for the day. lliey are expecting their third. RUSS HOOVER was found aUve and well and practicing law in Chicago. Russ was seen bemoaning the collapse of his beloved Cubs. JOHN TIDGEWELL came for the day from Dekalb, 111. John's wife, Linda, just presented him with their first child. They joined the inimitable RICH CATENACCI at JOHN CROWE's place In South Bend for what must have been a raucous evening. Rich is still very much single and he, too, is a lawyer, practicing in New Jersey. John was in particulaiiy good spirits as his wife is a Michigan State graduate. John, after working for the ND Foundation, is now in law school at ND. BRIAN "BUCKY" O'CONNOR kept his string intact by attending his 52nd-stralght ND game. 

Random notes: JOHN COVREAU is currently a copy supervisor for Sears Sporting Goods, Johnson's Wax and the First National Bank of Chicago in the Chicago office of Foote, Cone & Belding Advertising, Inc. In case you think last year's Schlitz commercial called "Class Reunion" looked similar to our own reunion —^you're right. John got the idea after watching the professional drinkers of our class repeatedly reduce the contents of the tubs to ice water. Hence, "When you're out of Schlitz, you're out of beer." 
JOHN PUCLIESE was recendy promoted to senior packaging salesman for Alcoa's Chicago district In August, John enjoyed a visit from BOB LAFAY­ETTE, his wife, Claire, and daughter. Bob Is an associate professor of language education at Wisconsin State U. and will take his Ph.D. exams at Ohio State this fall. DICK SAUER had an Important role in the Apollo 11 lunar landing mission. He is an engineer in the National Aero­nautics and Space Administration's Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston. DICK MEECE left the Army in Sept '69 after six years' service to work for Congressman Donald E. Lukens of Ohio. His awards wfaHe in the Army include two Bronze Stars, an Air Medal and three Army Commendation Medals. Dick re­cently received a George Washington Medal for the 1968 Freedoms Foundation armed forces letter-writing contest Finally, RAY SHEA is In his second year of orthopedic surgery at the U. of Michigan Medical Center. Ray and wife, Ruth, have two daughters. 
H. James Krauser 8301 Garfield St Bethesda, Md. 20034 
'flL OBVIOUSLY The announcement in the October issue of the ALUMNUS about a class reunion on Oct 18 was, quite obviously, an error. Unfortimately, the time that elapses between the mailing of my newsy notes and the publication of the same Is usually about two months. In the interim, the reunion was cancelled, not because of a lack of interest but due to an inability on the part of many to obtain tickets for the Southern Cal game. However, plans are imder way for a real reunion next faU. Announcement of the same will be made in plenty of time for all to obtain tickets for the game on the selected weekend. 
Although the formal reunion was cancelled. Marge and I staged our own reunion—two weeks running—at the ND-Army and ND-Southem Cal games. JIM GOULD and wife, Nancy, together with JIM STUCKO and wife, Mary, flew into New York from Grand Rapids and Chicago, respectively, for the Army game at Yankee Stadium. The BOB (HOW SWEET IT IS) COXes also joined the group. Incidentally, Bob was recently made a partner at Baker & McKenzie in NYC. Congratulations, B.C. The night before the Army game we had dinner and took in a show and the following day wound up celebrating the ND victory into the early daylight hours. Jim Gould is doing a good deal of trial defense work in Grand Rapids, while Jim Stucko is engaged in a varied practice of law in Chicago. Bob Cox, utilizing his five years of SEC experience in Washington, D.C., is handling all of the securities work in Baker's NY office. The Goulds have three children, the Stuckos also three (most recent addition—^"beloved Erin Marie"—bom on last St. Patrick's Day) and the Coxes four. 
The following weekend we traveled to the Southern Cal game in South Bend and had the pleasure of staying with JIM and Sophie GOETHALS in Sturgis, Mich. At the game we sat with the Goulds and witnessed a hard-fought tie. After­wards, we ran into several old acquain­tances, including the Stuckos, BILL and Sarah KELLEY, TOM KELLEY, JOHN COSTELLO, PAUL and Jan McNELLIS, MIKE and Sandy BRADY, JOE SULLIVAN, RUSS LLOYD and JERRY GALLIVAN '61 and DICK CLIFFORD. I hope I'm not forgetting anyone. 
Bill Kelly is still in Chicago practicing law. Tom Kelley is also in Chicago in a partnership which numbers Jim Stucko and PETE KELLEY. John Costello is with Associates in South Bend and was celebrating the birth the day before—via Mary—of John Fitzgerald Costello. Paul McNeills related that he had a very interesting tour with J.A.G. after graduation. He spent a good deal of his time prosecuting narcotics cases within the Army in Turkey and India. Paul is now practicing in Fort Wayne. Mike Brady is the head of the tax division of Procter and Gamble in Cincinnati, Ohio. The Bradys live outside the city with their three children. Joe Sullivan is with Associates in South Bend; Russ Lloyd is practicing in Evansville; and Jerry Gallivan is working towards his M.A. in criminal administra­tion at the U. of Wisconsin. After feasting at this get-together on the plains behind the stadium for an hour or so, we retired with the Goulds, McNellises and Stuckos for dinner. It was certainly enjoyable to see several old faces. Hopefully, it was but a dress rehearsal for our first reunion in the fall of 1970. Plan now to attend. 
RecenUy, I spoke with KEVIN LYONS. Kevin is a partner in the Fort Lauderdale firm of Mendez, Shaw, Marko & Stephany. He is specializing in real estate and corporate law and really enjoys living in the South—^"no air pollution, traffic," etc. Kevin said that CHARLIE SACHER '64 was associated with his firm but has recently moved on to Miami. Kevin and Fran had a visit several months ago from JOE and Patti ALBRIGHT and their four children. Joe is practicing in Parkersburg, W. Va. 
DAVE SCYOC has moved. His new address is 7203 Nixon Ave., Riverside, 
Calif. 92504. 
Merry Christmas to you and yours and 
for the new year: "May the wind be 
always at your back." 
Paul K. Rooney 
United States Courthouse 
Foley Square 
New York, N.Y. 10007 
'<3 READY? PLUNGE! RICHARD SCHMITZ writes from Jackson, Miss., where he's preparing to make the big plunge in December, to Sidna Anne Toomey. He's working for Seismograph Service Corp. DAVID AMES is the proud papa of a new girt, bom in September. Dave and fainily are also in a new home in Dixon, III. NICK WALZ and wife, Sara, are in New Rochelle, N.Y., and have a new daughter also. Thanks for the note. Sheila. 
Very nice note from SKIP KAISER, who after getting his M.B.A. and the Army out of the way sounds like a walking ad for big Standard Oil of New Jersey. Skip is married and has a young daughter, Suzanne. MIKE MAGUIRE is now living in Barrington, III., where he's running the Chevway Insurance department of Maguire Insurance Co. 
ALI CARDOSO is working in the central offices of Esso Colombiana at Bogota (an afliliate of New Jersey Standard cm Co.). JOHN A. KARCZ has been pro­moted to department chief in the Merrimack Valley Works of the Westem Electric Co. He resides in Salem, N.H., with his wife, Linda, and their two children. THOMAS J. SCHLERETH was appointed assistant professor of history at Grinnell College, Grinnell, Iowa. He has an M.A. from the U. of Wisconsin and a Ph.D. from the U. of Iowa. He taught one year at Sacred Heart U. in Connecticut 
HANK WHITTEMORE published a book entitled Cop, an account of the activities of the Chicago police department last summer, as well as other police organizations. EDWARD L. DELA­HANTY was promoted to senior actuarial assistant in the group annuity actuarial department of Aetna Life & Casualty, Hartford, Conn. He was recently dnignated a fellow in the Society of Actuaries. 
JAMES J. BEMIS returned to Omaha from a four-year hitch in the Air Force. He is now a stockbroker with Chiles & Co. and in his second year as treasurer of the ND Club of Omaha. ROBERT LUKE BETZLER was awarded an M.S. in mechanical engineering from the Pennsylvania State U. JAMES FRED­ERICK GRONDIN was awarded an 
M.B.A.
 from Saint Louis U., May 31. JAMES BERNARD EVERSMANN, GERALD JOSEPH KOERNER JR. and PAUL MICHAEL LEHNER were awarded 

M.B.A.
 degrees from Harvard U. Air Force Capt TIMOTHY P. JENKINS has completed his 100th combat mission in Southeast Asia. A navigator, he flew with the 42S8th Strategic Wing from U-Tapao Airfield, Thailand. He is permanently assigned to Seymour Johnson AFB, N.C., with a unit of the Strategic Air Command. 


Air Force Capt. ROBERT B. IRVINE JR. is in the Air U.'s Squadron Officer School at Maxwell AFB, Ala. He was reassigned to Ofiutt AFB, Neb., as a missile launch officer in a unit of the Strategic Air Command. He and wife, Mary, have two sons. Air Force CapL 
JOHN S. SEGURA also was graduated from 
the Air U.'s Squadron Officer Sdiool at 
Maxwell AFB, Ala. He has served in 
Vietnam and was reassigned to HoDoman 
AFB, N.M., as an F-4 Phantom pilot. 
CHARLES R<»ERT TILFORD received his PhJ>. in solid state physics from Iowa Sute U., Ames, Iowa, Aug. 22. TIMOTHY P. HAIDINGER was honored by the California Society of Certified PuUic Accountants for hiib marks on the CPA examioation. He ranked second among 1,922 persons taking the California exam in May, 1968. The CPA society presented Km the John F. Forbes Certificate of HonoraUe Mention for his achievement He was also awarded the Elijah Watt Sdis award from the American Institute of CPAs for the paper he wrote during the test It was one of the IS best of 16,444 in the country. He is employed as a management con­sultant for Arthur Yoiuig i Co., Santa Ana. (Who's your press agent, Tim?) 
ROBERT BUCKLEY received an MSJk. 
from U. of Chicago this summer. He's 
now employed as an operations analyst 
in the corporate piaiuiing department of 
Libby, McNeill k Libby, Chicago. 
I've also moved to "mecca," which for me means Coming, N.Y. My new address b below. 
Thomas B. Hotopp 
55 Churchill Place 
R.D. No. 1 
Big Flats, N.Y. 14814 
'65 GETS UTILE SLEEP NASSIF CANNON received his M.D. from the U. of North Carolina in June and is currently getting very little sleep as a straight medicine intern at the U. of Alabama's hospital in Birmingham. BILL BOYLE is in his third year of thedogy at St Paul's College in Washington, 
D. C and will be ordained a Paulist father in March, 1971. Last summer Bill spent an interesting three months in the chaplain training program at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta, where I am now serving a straight medical internship. 
PAUL REITER was married in October to Kathleen M. Jermyn of Rochester, N.Y., where just recently Paul has joined the Lawyers Cooperative Publishing Co. as an associate editor. ROBERT PECKHAM was married in Jiuie to Dolores Wierzbicki and honeymooned in En^and. Bob is still teaching English at Sacred Heart Seminary College in Detroit RAY SCHEETZ is at the Cleveland Clinic as a medical resident, and after completing his service oUigation he win bef^ a fellowship in gastroenterology. Ray and wife. Sherry, have a new addition, Rebecca Lyim, who was bom in September. Also blessed with a dau^ter in September were Gaa and BOB SIRNA. Hieir dau^ter Cheryl Lyim now joins her two-year-old sister, Michele. Bob has moved from Saginaw, Mich., as an IBM marketing representative to Dow Chemical in Midland. September was the month of females, for also during that month THOMAS HECK'S wife, Aime, presented him with Larissa Daniel-Heck. 
LARRY 0'CONN(« is woricing in the trust department of the Indiana National Bank in IndianapoCs. Larry and his wife. Ami. have two daughters. AUGUSTINE JEHLE has been appointed assistant manager at branch 113 of the Chemical Bank New York Trust Co. in New York City and lives in Brooklyn 
with his wife and two children. 
Spec. 5 RUSSELL GREENLESS is 
serving in battery fire direction center 
just south of Chu Lai, Vietnam. LARRY 
POLINER received his M.D. from Cornell 
U. Medical College in June. He is interning at the U. of Colorado Medical Center, Denver. JOHN GRIFFIN also was granted an M.D. in June from SL Louis 
U. School of Medicine and is interning at Welford Hall USAF Hospital, San Antonio. He and wife, Kalhy, have three children. First Lt. JOHN A. SCOTT is the base procurement officer at Perrin AFB, Tex., and Capt. THOMAS KIEFER received the Bronze Star in Vietnam in 1967. 
ALAN COOPER has recently opened an 
office for general practice of law in 
Buffalo, N.Y., under the name of Cooper 
and Ulaszewski. JIM EPSTEIN received 
his M.D. at Washington U. Medical 
School and is now interning at the 
Indiana U. Medical Center, Indianapolis. 
Lt j.g. MAURICE HOBEN has completed 
his second cruise aboard destroyer Black 
off the coast of Vietnam and is now 
homeported in San Diego. 

BILL FERRENCE is working for Crown Nellerbach Corp., Park Ridge, III. EDWARD BORCK is an instructor in social relations at Colgate U. JAMES REYNOLDS is an associate with the law firm of Bryan, Cave, McPheelers and McRoberts in St. Louis, while 1st Lt. THOMAS MILLER is a procurement officer assigned to an aerospace defense command unit at Kingsley Field, Ore. 
JOHN F. BOWDEN and RONALD LaSPISA received M.S. degrees from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. JOHN THOMAS RYAN received his M.B.A. in June from Harvard U., and the same month at Harvard, BRUCE D. VOSBURG was awarded his Juris Doctor degree. ALAN JAMES BURKE was granted an 
M.B.A. in June from the U. of Iowa, and FRANK BUDARZ received his master's in African studies at ND. Frank is now in the training program of the LaSalle Bank, Chicago, while he is working for an M.B.A. at Northwestern U. EDWARD O'GARA is completing his Vietnam tour as a fighter squadron pilot aboard the USS Oriskany. 
Keep in mind that our first reunion is scheduled for June 12, 13 and 14. Further notices on this great event will be forthcoming. 
James P. Hamisch 
863 E. Granville Rd., Apt. B Columbus, Ohio 43224 
tSL END OF STRIKE Hurrah! The strike is over. As many of you noticed, several of the last issues had no word from our class. The reason for this was a total lack of correspondence—and I mean total, not a word from anyone in four months—so rather than write a four-installment biography I went on strike (it's in vogue nowadays, you know). 
The JIM LEONARDS sent a letter aimouncing the forthcoming birth of child No. 5 in the early spring. Congratulations! Jim must be heading the race for sure. Jim is still employed with Langerman, Begam and Lewis. Sue informs us that "he has written a book in collaboration with several other young lawyers. He was responsible for a couple of chapters on the medical aspects of trial work." Jim's become so interested in medicine that Sue feels he'd love to become 
a doctor—how 'bout OB, Jim? He's now 
quite busy with several malpractice cases. 
The Leonards attended the legal conven­
tion in Denver and ran into JOHN 
LAMONT and his wife, Liz, as well 
as JACK BEATTY (how are those 
twins. Jack?). 
We had the pleasure of being visited by 

MIKE BISHKO and Carol, who by now 
must be parents of their first child. 
They had much to tell us about their 
European trip. Mike's goal is to go around 
the world. They rented a car and toured 
at their leisure. We had an interesting 
discussion with them concerning the role of 
women in the business world, their 
privileges and the consequences they should 
incur. Mike has some strong feelings 
in that direction. We went out to dinner 
with them and learned that Jhey are 
house-hunting, too. 
Just prior to the publication deadline we heard from JON KRUPNICK. Jon is still associated with Walsh and Dolan of Fort Lauderdale, Fla. First on the agenda of Jon's report came news that his sons. Jack and Mike, have a sister named Laura, now already one year old. Jon had been promoted to partner in his firm a while back and claims life in Florida is all he hoped it would be. During last winter, the Krupnicks had visits from WALT RIEBENACK and Mary Ann and the JOHN LUCIDOs. MIKE FLAHERTY and LARRY SHINNICK also dropped in to say hello. Jon says "I hope that anyone who gets down here will give us a call. so that we can get together and have a drink." 
Since the last issue deadline I am pleased to report that I have been promoted to tax manager at Arthur Anderson and Co. My sincerest hope for a most blessed and fulfilling holiday season for your family and friends. 
John A. Hauter 
lOSO Indiana Ave. Glenwood, 111. 6042S 
'M HUGE SUCCESS As TOM SULLIVAN mentioned in the last issue, the first class of '66 reunion was a huge success. The Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn was oveiflowing with '66ers. It was certainly great to see so many of the faces 1 hadn't seen for over three years. 111 mention some people who may not have crossed Tom's path and therefore didn't make the past issue. 
For PETE CAREY, BARRY McNA-MARA and myself, die reunion served as a celebration for having passed the Illinois Bar examination. Our gracious host and hostess for the weekend were CHUCK LORENZEN and his lovely wife, Mindy. Chuck is still at ND studying for his Ph.D. in mechanical engineering. JERRY HIRSCHFELD and hU lovely wife, Cece, were there also. Jerry is entering his last year of medical school at St Louis. JIM CURRAN was also at South Bend, taking a break from his final year of studies in medical school. MIKE EIBEN and wife, Susie, returned from a honeymoon in Europe in time to attend the reunion. Mike is working for a computer outfit which he helped establish in Chicaga. 
Other C3iicagoans who made the affair were RON SCHMIDT, JOHN RAHIYA, LARRY HOUDEK, FRANK MURTHA and BOB BRAUN. Bob, who was recently married, is working for IBM in Chicago. 
MIKE BERNATH, whose wife. Barb, 
is about to present him with their second 
child, was there taking a little vacation 
from his books. After fidfilling his 
service duty, Mike is now studying for his 
master's in Chapel HiU. BUZZ KLEIN­
MAN and wife were also there. Buzz is 
working with his father in the real estate 
business in Minneapolis. JOHN WETLI 
was present with his lovely wife. They were 
also celebrating John's having passed 
the Ohio Bar examination. DAN OLSON 
flew into town via TWA, for whom he 
is working in New York. Others present 
were BILL FOERG, TOM McGUIRE 
and BILL SEIDENSTICKER. 
Marine 1st Lt COREY HART, who recently assumed duties as executive officer. Marine Barracks, Naval Air Station, Lakehurst NJ., was awarded the Navy Commendation Medal by his commanding officer. USAF 1st Lt JOSEPH W. FOBES III recenUy partici­pated in extensive air action over Vietnam. He and fellow F-4 Phantom fighter pilots attacked a link in the Communist supply route into South Vietnam. Fobes is assigned to the 8th Tactical Fighter Wing at Ubon Royal Thai AFB, Thailand. 
MIKE SHEEHAN and wife. Dee, became the proud parents of a son, Michael, last November. Mike is at Sheppard AFB where he is the base exchange officer and is running two filling stations, two large department stores, IS snack bars and administering 24 separate contracts with various civilian companies. 
JOHN WALTERS is in the Air Force at Nellis AFB in Las Vegas. BILL ST. PAUL writes from Oxford, En^and, where he is serving as pilot flight examiner and chief of flight operations until August, 1971. TOM LOFTIS and his wife, Mary Lou, are in Norfolk, Va., where Tom is com­pleting a stint in the Marines. JOHN GERAGHTY is at Aberdeen, Md., where he is a company commander for an A.I.T. company. John plans to get his master's degree upon his release in August, 1970. 
Congratulations are in order for DAN McCINN, who had such a successful season with the Montreal Expos this year. Dan and I had a chance to reminisce old times while he was in Chicago preparing to pitch against the Cubs. 
My freshman year roommate, BILL WENTWORTH, was married on Sept 13 to Micheline Van den Berge in Pataya, Thailand. My sophomore year roommate, MIKE McKIM, was also recently married. Mike was married in August in Omaha, Neb. Mike and his lovely bride are currently living in Minneapolis, where Mike is clerking for a district court judge. 
Richard H. Angelotti 8640 S. 86th Ave., Apt 203 Justice, lU. 60458 
'ML UKE FATHER, UKE SON Cookie and I made both the Michigan State and the Army games. At school at the Michigan State game we saw CoUeen and PHIL RUDDY. PhU is practicing law with his dad in Aurora, 111. We spent some time also with Terri and BOB KRAUSE. Bob was in-between trips to San Francisco. 
We sat with Joan and PAUL POLKING and EtU and SCOTTY MAXWELL at the Army game at Yankee Stadiiun in New York. The three of us had a good conversation with THE CHIEF who came over to the stiuids from his customary spot on the fidd. After the game the MaxweDs had a oodctail party at their hotd and we all had dinner. 
FRANK REISER wrote to tefl me that he was married Aug. 16 to Diana Whitney in Omaha, Neb. After their honeymoon trip to the Grand Tetons and Yellowstone Parle, they are at thdr home in Kansas City, Mo.: 4430 Jarboe, Apt 6, Kansas City 64111. Frank is associated with Levy A Craig in Kansas City, working primarily in the tax and probate areas but apparently doing everything dse as wdl. He and IXana said they were going to be in South Bend for the Southern Cal game. 
Maureen and BOB MURPHY are the parents of a second baby giri, Tara Catherine, who was bom on Aug. 21. Bob is now a supervising attorney with the criminal section of the dvil tights division of the Department of Justice. All of the local crew turned out for a Halloween party at our house and scared the da]4i{^ts out of an of our other friends. 
I spoke to STEVE SEALL, and he told me that JAY DOUGHERTY and JOHN HAUGH both had passed through South Bend on business and were doing weD. 
Co<4ae and I send our very best wishes for a pleasant holiday season and a most happy new year to everyone. Why not jdan on dropping in on us next year and promise as one of your New Year's resolutions to send me some mformation about you and your fiunily? 
Frank Gregory S018 Woodland Way Annandale, Va. 22003 
W NICE TO COME HOME TO We received a letter from PETE BANNON. Peter was serving with the 3rd Marine Division as communications officer for die 3nl Battalion, 12th Regiment, at Vander­grift Combat Base near Ae Taotian border. Pete married the foriner Iheresa McCusker SMC '67 in November "fit and has now returned stateside to see his son, Sean Peter, for the first time. 
I am despondent about having to be the clarion of yet another death. DAVE FITZGERALD was killed in action on Aug. 2. Our sincerest conddences go to his family. Dave was not only a classmate but a dear friend. His death was a deep 
• aa wcl aa a loaa for MD^ 

and he wg be ••rtiUi •••ed. 
FRANK HONEIKAIIP leccMiy mM. m a note. Fiaift it pwautfir taUitt ap >• maitef'a pragna at St JUa's irtia WDikiac ibr tit ftthei's ilywDod hmimm ia New Yak. He was aanied ia AnfMt '6S and BOW hat, a foar-Moadi-ald IM^ Fiaak m. . 
He haa becaiatoiidiwidiSIEVEJ(WESk iriw is pmeiMly rtatjoaed in Nbtfoik. Va, with the Vtny^ Fxaak aiilti dutt SlevB and hit wife are eqcctiaf ia .^oL 
DAN (atEMnXKm WM muoBi. tast wmaier to tte tom r Cbadode : Daa it pfeseady lahit And year oCi sdool at LSU. lOKB SIEELB has bees living ia Nntfofr, Va., where he haa served at a talet maaafer for the Noifiok Goodwa TadniHiM He and hii wiCt^ Hamaai. plan to viat her patealt ia Japaa after Mike finiihf i hit alleraale aenrice at acoBxiewtwui obieciuc He It Aen soiif to tetnra to Bfidaita State to ooavkle woric oa hb nj>. 
We lecehwd word Oat BCM VAZQUEZ was married late last Magr. Bodi STEVE VOGEL and MIKE MAKIIN were ia l b 

The Siegfrieds' Santa speetaeniar 
Twenty-five years ago, Santa Claus moved to Tuba, Okla. He's a busy man, an ND class agent and state chairman for the SUMMA program in Oklahoma. He's on the board of a bank in Tulsa, involved in philanthropic organizations and (grates an insuraiKe firm. He's in the oil business and is owner of a hotel in San Antonio, Tex. Out of season, his firiends know him as Robert M. "Bobby" Siegfried '37. 
The hobby started when Bobby and his wife, Betty, started dressing up as Mr. and Mrs. Santa Claus and going to the homes of friends to prove to their children that there really was a Santa Claus. The act— and Bobby's own family—^grew. The full cast of the Siegfried' Christmas act was, until marriage interfered, Mrs. Lindsay Perkins, the (ddest dau^ter, who is now a resident of Miami, Fla.; Ray II, a 1965 graduate of ND, who's a clown in the act; Robin, a junior at the U. of Oklahoma, who's also a clown; and elves Mary Celeste (13) and Rick (11). 
The act, which must now be limited almost entirely to charitable organizations, has become fiill scale and first class. Bobby keeps adding to the costumes, made by a company that designs for Broadway plays. He takes two or three musicians with him. And of course he hands out gifts. Some of his most tmusual presents last year were ISO basketballs which he gave to children at a Salvation Army party. Things got pretty wild with all those balls flying around, he says. 
The press, radio and television have run many features oa this generous 
Mr. and Mrs. Claus md thtir frnmily. 
hobby of the Siegfrieds, but Bobby says he's had to airft-pedal the publicity because by August evory year, tiie Siegfried Santa Claus act b bodced adid for the Christnun 
wedding party. Bob received his master's in aerospace engineering at ND in June and is presently stationed at Laughlin AFB for pilot training. 
TOM LONG has been stationed as gunnery officer on the Meeker County, which has been in and out of Guam during the last few months. He writes that he has gotten an opportunity to see much of the Far East but hopes to be rotated this January. 
JOE KANE and his wife, the former Nancy Buescher SMC '68, spent the last year in England. Joe was studying under ND Law School's "Year Abroad Program." Joe is now back in South Bend, finishing up his last year. He writes that ANDY REURDON is still in the Navy, stationed at Newport, R.I. He also informs me that BOB SEVIER has received his M.B.A. from the U. of Tennessee and is now in the Army studying at the French Language School at F t Myers, Va. 
We would like to take this opportunity to wish everyone a happy Christmas season. Please let us know how everyone is doing so we can pass it along. 
John J. Hughes 
99 W. 37 SL 
Bayonne, NJ. 

'<7L DOING THEIR DUTY JIM MOLLISON finally wrote, but it took a back operation and a stint in Walter Reed Hosirital before he found the time. He was injured in the line of duty— idaying intramural Softball. Jim, whose job in the Army up to now has been stacking gold bricks in Ft. Knox, will be cashiered on March 20. Then he, Germaine and their seven-month-old son _will return to Niles, Mich., and the practice of law with the firm of MolUson, Hadsell & Cary. Jim still claims to be the lowest-ranking military man in our class, having refused a commission and all promotions offered. 
JACK "SNOOPY" COUCH gave me the latest details of his doings. He was stationed on the destroyer Taylor. Just as it and he were whipped to the razor edge of fighting trim and efficiency, the ship was sold to the Italian Navy. Snoopy was not sold, although it is rumored that the Polish Navy is interested in some kind of lend-lease. Jack and his bride of five months are living in Virginia Beach, Va. He still has quite a bit of time to run on his enlistment, but his immediate future shows nothing less appealing than a tour of duty in Panama. 
Florie, Chris, Laurel and I wish to extend Christmas greetings to you all, and we hope to hear from you in the coming year. 
James C. Heinhold 
20-3 Bedford Ave. Norwalk, Conn. 06850 

' « NEWS FROM VIETNAM It seems as though I must begin my first 
column from Vietnam on a sad note. 

I have received word of the death of JOHN CRIKELAIR, who was killed in Vietnam in August We would like to extend our deepest sympathies to his parents during their sorrow. I was very shocked when I received word of John's death, since I had last seen him in May when I arrived home on leave and he was shipping for Vietnam. While at ND, John was cocaptain of the 1968 fencing team, and during his career he won 91 and lost 
24 bouts. He ranked as the No. 9 fencer 
on the all-time ND list 
Also serving in Vietnam are TQM. 
DURKIN, a radioman with the lOlst 
Airborne Division, and TIM BRENNAN, 
a chaplain's assistant with the 1st 
Cavalry Division. Ens. WJ. CLEARY is on 
a Yankee station off Vietnam, and your 
class secretary is with the 1st Infantry 
Division. Right now, I am in fire 
direction control and am stationed at fire 
support base Kien, about five miles 
south of Dau Tieng. 
And now back to events in the worid. 
Congratulations to BRIAN McMAHON and 
WILLIAM DUNFEY on their marriages 
to Gini and Joan Waters, respectivdy, 
from across the road. Brian is teaching in 
New York City and Bill is teaching 
in Cincinnati. 
LEO WELSH is working for Price 
Waterhouse and Co. in New Yoric. DAVE 
ZENKEL is a cook in the Navy and is 
stationed at a NATO base in Keflavik, 
Iceland. Congratulations to Viixinia and 
FRANZ FORRESTER on the birth of 
their first child, Elizabeth Anne, a healthy 
girl, weighing in at eight and one^alf 
pounds. Franz is emidoyed in the interna­
tional department of the Chase Manhattan 
Bank and will be going overseas within 
the next nine months. 
It seems as though the Air Force has its share of ND graduates. CHARLES SWANSON, MIKE IRWIN, BILL FOL­LETTE and HENRY SCHANK were awarded silver wings on completion of ffight training, and WILLIS WILLIAMS JR. received his silver wings from the Marine Corps. He is on fli^t duty with the 2nd Marine Air Wing at Cbeny Point 
N.C. Charles Swanson is on fli^t duty with the Military Airlight Command at Norton AFB, Calif. Bill is with SAC at Wurtsmith AFB, Mich.; Mike is at McChord AFB, Wash., for duty with Aerospace Defense Command; and Henry is a navigator on a C-141 Statlifter with the Military Airlift Command. 
Keep the news coming, and don't forget about the mail delay. 
Pfc. L. Pellecchia 
148-36-8584 
1st Inf. Div. 
A 816 
APO San Francisco 96345 
'ML REFORMING THE LAW 
Recently heard from BOB HERR, who 
confirmed the fact that he, Aiidrea and 
Robbie have moved to White Bear Lake, Minn., from Wateiloo, Iowa. Bob has continued in the Reginald Heber Smith 
Fellowship Program for another year and is working for the Legal Assistance Office of Ramsey County in St PauL He is specializing in private and public housing 

cases on a law reform basis. Bob has nothing but raves about Miimesota. He gets to rub elbows with JIM McGOVERN, who also lives in White Bear Lake, and AL BARNARD, who is in Minneapolis. 
Bob writes that TERRY KELLY and RICH HENNESSY, both of lAom are now in Denver, have also continued in the Smith program for another year. While in Chicago, Bob visited with LOU BIANCHI, who had just recently started working as an Illinois state attorney. Lou apparently likes the job change. JOE LADD is in Chicago, too, working for the Legal Services Program. IVAN BODEN­STEINER is with Legal Services in 
Fort Wayne and has filed some test cases 
which have received national reporting. 
He's really tearing the place up. 
I was able to get together with JOHN 

SCRIPP when he came to New York for 
a weekend. John is not in Miimeapolis 
as last reported. He is working with 
legal aid in Milwaukee and likes it very 
much. As with Bob Herr, much of John's 
work has to do with law reform. By 
the time you read this, a new addition to 
the Scripp fanuly will have arrived—gender 
to be atmounced in the next issue. At 
last word, TOM KAPACINSKAS was 
teaching at ND. And reliable sources have 
it that DICK MANNING is about to 
tie the knot Is that true, Dick? 
That's it for now. Let me conclude by wishing all a very merry Christmas and only the best in the new year. 
Dennis C. Thelen 
7816 Lisa Dr., Apt 202 
Norfolk, Va. 23518 
tfL SIDESTEPFERS I received a tremendously humorous and informative letter from PUMA MC­LAUGHLIN. He has been extremely busy sidestepping his local board, and as of Sept. 10 he has been successful. Less successful were TOM "T-BONE" BONNER and PETE DRISCOL. T-Bone's work for Ray Cohn has been interrupted by his induction into the National Guard, and Pete was called for six months' active duty only two days before he was to start for the New York City D.A.'s office. 
Pam and GEORGE RICE became the proud parents of a little girl, Erin Noel Rice, bom July 14. George is working for Legal Aid in New Rochelle and you may drop him your congratidations at 95 LeRoy Ave., Darien, Conn. 06820. 
TOM McCUSKER has arrived at the conclusion that NYC is a great place to visit but not exactly the place where he woidd like to live forever. He is working very hard for CraVath, Swaine & Moore and finds the work qtiite interesting. Tom informs me that he keeps in touch with Pat and JOHN RITTENGER, who now have a fine baby girl. 
I have just recently received a dispatch from Malone, N.Y. It appears that BRYAN "BENNY" HUGHES has suc­ceeded in bringing law and order to that wilderness city and made it a safe place to start a family—his own, as a matter of fact Bryan and Sue Meagan will exchange vows on Nov. 29. In the mean­time, he is working with the firm Herron, Lawler & Fischer in Malone. 
On the weekend of Oct 17 I had the pleasure of returning to ND for the ND-USC tilt While there I ran into many '69ers: MATT DWYER, AL REED, JAMES "STAR" STARSHAK, REGIS TRENDA, BOB GREENE, JIM ROLLS and JIM MACKIN. 
I save for last the news of the most earth-shattering importance. JOE "ZEP THE STALLION" KENNEDY has written to say that in March of 1970 he will be in Chicago for his marriage to Susan, and that henceforth the greatest of all Domers will amply be known as "Zep!" 
Scott Atwell 1041 Ogden, No. 504 Denver, Colo. 80218 

CLUBS 
Members of the ND Club of Rhode Island and Southeastern Massachusetts recently celebrated the club's temporary first-place position in the national SUMMA drive. The club has achieved 307 per cent of its $20,000 goal, gathering pledges in excess of $61,500. Above are (l-r) John J. McLaughlin, special gifts cochairman; Philip B. Toole, general chairman; Judge John S. Mc-
Kiernan, special cochairman; and Thomas J. McHale, campaign chairman. 
ATLANTA The annual family picnic was held under cloudy skies Aug. 16 at the Mathis Dairy. As usual, picnic czar PETE MURRAY did an outstanding job in providing a great time for all. 
There was much disappointment that the football games were not aired "live" in Atlanta this year. The Mutual Network station WGST, under the club's protest, decided to carry the Georgia Tech games. A vital club project is to assure coverage next year. Thanks to WQXI-TV and sponsors for the Sunday reruns. 
The club sponsored a pregame party at the Regency before the ND-Ceorgia Tech game. JIM EICHELBERGER was in charge of arrangements for the evening. Guests from school included Rev. EDMUND P. JOYCE CSC, JIM COONEY and MIKE JORDAN. 
In order to have a central place to meet, RALPH WITT has located an excellent headquarters. Hereafter, ND alumni and friends in Atlanta will meet for lunch the first Tuesday in the month at the Blarney Stone, an "Irish" pub located in under­
ground Atlanta. 
Lou Loncaric '38 
CHICAGO The annual Knute Rockne dinner was sponsored by the club on Dec. 8, at the Sherman House. BILL ROEMER '50 and FRANK REYNOLDS '59, cochairmen of the dinner, expected over 1,000 people to honor 130 of the finest scholar-athletes in the Chicago area. 
Among the guest speakers were 
•ROCKY" BLIER, FRANK LEAHY and DANIEL SHANNON. Jack Brickhouse was expected to provide much enjoyment as toastmaster. Ara Parsegfaian and a number of the members of the 1969 "Fitting Irish" football team were expected to participate in the program. 
Christmas will soon be on us and the members of the Chicago club wish you a holy and meny Christmas and a happy 
new year, 
Thomas F. Carey '55 
CONNECnCVT VALLEY The club qnnsored two fall activities that were strangely fated. The freshmen send-off, held in BILL McCAFFREVs backyard, ended in the garage due to a late-summer cloudburst The transition indoors was made without missing a turn of the barbecued chicken. The stalwart alumni turned out 11-strong to greet six of die 15freshmen in our area. 
A chance to win a weekend in New York for the ND-Aimy game in October was warmly received, and 44 members responded to the call. The winner was Fr. Schick of St Margaret Mary's parish in Wapping. He qualified as an alumnus of the ND summer sdiool, class of '60, but was embarrassed in victory because be had attended the drawing to ascertain that things were on the up-and-up. 
The Communion supper of '68 was 
iqieated in '69 by popuIaT demand. Rev. 
Gene Ciailo celebrated Mass at Cooke's 
Tavern in Plainville on the evening of 
Dec 7. 

Due to an opportunity that enabled your 
secietaiy to change jobs it was necessary 
to tender a resignation. Hie new job 

requires extensive travel, and it is unfair to 
the club if it were to be neglected from 

this oflSce now that we are off the ground. 
In case there is a new author next issue, 
thanks for all the help you have given. 
Let's keep it up. 
JJ. McGuire '62 
DALLAS 
Over 100 alumni and fiiends of the 
Univeisity journeyed to New Orleans for 

the Tulane game. The success of the trip 
was due to the efforts of the chairman of 

the trip, KEVm CHISHOLM '63 and his 
assistants, CHIC MARTIN '59, TED 

AMBERG '59, FRED EICHORN '44 and 
BILL GRADY '67. 

Hie Women's Sherry Party was held on 
Nov. 7 at the home of Jane and JOE 
BATES. 

Our year was completed with the annual 
Christmas party, observed this year at the 

home of Theresa and JOHN ROGERS on 
Dec. 6. 
We in Dallas offer our best wishes for a 

happy holiday season to all the members of 
the ND family. 
Paul B. Underkofler Jr. '38 

DECATUR The members attended our annual meeting in substantial numbers Oct 9. JOHN DUNN '58, LL.B. '61, chairmaned the meeting, v^ch included a memorial tribute to POYNTELLE DOWNING '14 and dub correspondence to BERNARD A. MARTY '37, DOW of Naples, Fla. A business meeting elected the following officers and directors: PATRICK NOLAN '63—president; ED KOVAL '50—vice-president; DAN CAREY '61—treasurer; and Directors JOHN LANIGAN '62, JIM NORAN and RICH 
MCDONALD '55. 
Steve Graliker '42 
FAIRFIELD COUNTY 
The lucky winner of the scholarship raffle 
was Dan Antinozzi, who is the father of 
D . Paul Antinozzi '72. He won an all­expense-paid weekend for two to the ND-Tulane game in New Orleans. 
ROY JANN '48 notifici us that NEIL 

F. KELLY '48 has moved into our area at 85 Spruce St, Stratford, Conn. All of Neil's ND friends can reach him at the above address. 
Peter M. Hearden '37 
INDIANAPOLIS The Friday noon football luncheons have been very successful again this year. SID 

BAKER '66 was general chairman for these luncheons prior to mid-October when he left Indianapolis to accept a new position at the St Joseph Bank and Trust Co. in South Bend. HUGH McCOWAN '66 has agreed to fill the general chairman slot for the remainder of the season. The winners in the weekly pick-the-winner contest have been: "F." QUINN '42, BILL STUHL­DREHER '53, JOHN QUINN '69, Adolph Chrapln, and JOE DESAUTELS '53. The 
speakers for these a&iis have been PAT 
FISHER and BOB WELCH on S^ t 19 
(Northwestern); Jim Wibon on S^ t 26 
(Purdue); Cody Lamm oo Oct 3 (Michitan 
SUte); Dean GrifSng oa Oct 10 (Anny); 
Wayne Fnson on Oct 17 (Soodiem Cd) 
and Joe Dezelan on Oct 31 (Navy). 
The aimual Ara Parse|]iian Testimonial 
Dinner, originally scheduled for Nov. 24, 
has been pos^ned due to ND's 
acceptance of the bid to the Cotton Bowl. 
Bob Weldi will serve as general diainnan 
of the dinner, vi4iich will probably 
be at the Indianapolis Addetic Club. 
Mote details later. 
The aimual membershqi drive is now 
comideted, and the club stiencdi for '69-70 
stands at 389 members in good standing. 
Lawrence A. O'Connor Jr. '65 
MILWAUKEE July 14 started the club's new year. The occasion was the annual golf outing at the West Bend Country Club, so aptly airanfed by BOB and TOM R(HJ^ In addhioo to tormenting the tur^ about 40 ahmmi enjoyed a program headed Iv GEORGE KELLY (defensive coadi) and WEMP Sports IXiector TOM COLUNS. KiE MESEC, after leading the dub throutfi a very successful year, passed the lavd to the newly elected president DAVE MURPHY. Other cheers dected were: MARK PFALLER—honorary president; BOB CLEMENCY—vice-president; DAVE ROEMER—secretary; and DICK EHR— treasurer. For die first tim^ a board of directors was also elected. The membeis were also informed that the club directory will again be published this year. 
On Sept 29 the dub held its annaal fall football smoker at the (Pabst) Bhie Ribbon Hall. About 40 alumni, wives aiMl ddUren enjoyed an evening featuring the showing of the '68 ND football IiigUi|)its movie and an off-the-cuff talk by basketball coadi Al McQuire of Marquette U. 
David L. Roemer '60 
MOHAWK VALLEY The club's aimual &11 football smoker was held on Oct 23 at the Elks Chib in New Hartford, imder the chairmaiwhip of ROGER LEMKE '58. A laip turnout heard a report of the SUMNfA drive by Chainnan JIM OSTER '61, who said 76 per cent of the goal had been realized, with contribu­tions totaling $15,200. 
MIKE PHILIPS '58 and BOB FLETCH­ER '56 were appointed scholaidup committee chaiimen for the metiopiriitan Utica area: Plans for a Christnias dance «rere discussed, with BOB BENNISON '60 and Mike Philips '58 serving as diaimien. The annual Communion breakfast was held on Dec. 7, with LEE OSTER '56 as chainnan. 
Among the guests at the snxdcer were Geoige Murtaugb, fiom Frankfort, and his two sons, Frank and Chris, who hope to be ND-bound. 
Bob Fletcher '56 
NEW OBLEANS On Oct 24, the ND Qub of New Odeans sponsored a cocktail party and ial(y in the grand ballroom of the Royal Sooesta Hotel, in the heart of the Frendi Quarter. Thousands of visiting alumni, students and friends of ND attended in anticqiatian of the football game on Saturday against Tulane. The Honorable Victor H. Sduro, 

mayor of New Orieans, presented a key to 
the d ^ and honoiaiy dtizenshqt to Rev. 
EDMUND P. JOYCE CSC, A n Pars^iian 
and ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE. The mayor, 
a Tulane graduate, showed his good 
qwitsmanship by declaring "May the best 
team win!" It did. 
Entertainment for the evening was 

provided by the Olymiria Brass Band, the 
finest in traditional New Orieans jazz. Later 
in the evening the ND girt cheerleaders, 
clad in gold sweaters and blue skirts, lead 
die partisan crowd in several cheers and 
sonp and then joined die Olympia Brass 
Band in leading a march around the 
ballioom. 
On hand for the festivities were three 

New Orieans alumni from the pages of ND 
foodMdl histoiy—JOE HEAP '55, JOHN 
PETITBON '52, and AL ECUYER '59. 
On Satuiday ni^t in Sugar Bowl Stadium 

local and visiting fans were treated to a 
^lendid football game, ND winning 37-0 
over Tulane. It had been 19 years since ND 
played football in New Orieans. Hopefully, 
we need not wait diat long again. 
Our congratulations and thanks to PAT 

BOOKER '62, president of die New Orleans 
club, for all his efforts in making the 
entire weekend a grand success. 
We are now kxddng forward to our next social event, to be hdd shortly before or after the Christmas holidays. Long-range plans are under way for the LSU football game scheduled to be idayed in South Bend in the latter part of November, 1970. 
Joe Drolla '63 
OHIO VALLEY Hie Ohio Valley ND Club hdd a dinner meeting at Figatetti's Elm Grove Restaurant on Oct 8 to discuss plans to sponsor a concert of the ND Glee Club wbea it is on tour in January. A committee consisting of BILL BUCK '60, HARRY BUCH '52, BILL HOGAN '51, LOUIS YEAGER '35 and BILL MITSCH '33 was named to work cut the details. 
Other items of interest discussed were: proqiects of the ND football team, formation of religious discussion group and changes occurring on the ND campus. 
BiU Mitsch '33 
PHILADELraiA The aimual chance, drive drawing was held on Sept 30. Winners were: (1) Joseirii Barnes; (2) James J. Clearkin; (3) Robert Shelsis^, (4) P. Guitera^ and (5) A. Subaski Congratulations. 
The ND Club of Philadelphia was chosen to host the regional alumni clubs in February, 1970. 
Alumni who intend to return to campus for 1970 Reunion, June 12, 13 and 14, 1970, and who wouU like to travel with others, contact the Philadelphia club secretaiy. 
Ray E. Mullen '60 
PinSBUKGH The year's activities started off with a fieshman orientation, held at Stauffer's in Oakland. Our new president FRANK CONTE, ably took charge of this affair. 
DANIEL J. BEGGY, die club's director, planned the Sept 12 golf outing at the Pittsburgji Field Qub. It was weU attended, as usual, and thoroughly enjoyed by all. 
The fall smoker on Sept 23 was hekl at the Pittsburgh Press Club and was very 
well attended and successful Starting at 
7 pjn., movies were shown of last season's 
ND games and also the Pittsburgh Steeler 
highlights. TERRY HANRATTY '69 was 
a special guest and spoke a few words. 
PETER J. FLAHERTY '51, then running 
for mayor of Pittsburgh in the coming 
election, was there—the members wished 
him luck (he had it, too; he was elected). 
The evening was toi^ied off with beer and a 
cold buffet 
All Pittsburgh alumni enjoyed the ND-
Pitt game, Nov. 8. Messrs. JAMES L 
SMITH III, our vice-president, MICHAEL 
J. BOYLE and Daniel J. Beggy planned the football pep rally on Nov. 7 as the hi ^ point of the weekend. Jack Purcell appeared with his band in the ballroom of the William Penn Hotel The theme of the evening was "Beat Ktt!" 
Pittsburg alumni extend holiday greetings to all friends and classmates everywhere! 
sm Compers '48 
ROCHESTER A full schedule of activities this summer and fall has kept area alumni busy and in close contact Our ND scholarship fund raffle for the weekend in New Orleans was, as expected, a big success. Our annual family communion breakfast was held Dec. 7 under the leadership of TOM HARTZELL. The breakfast was at Bishop Kearney High School. 
One of our largest social events of the year, the annual Christmas dinner-daivce, will be held Dec. 27 at Oak Hill Country Club. Preparations are being made under the direction of Ann Louise and JERRY CURRAN and EUeen and TOM WURZER. 
Sid wakin "56 
ROME Extra! Extra! Read all about it! You'll see it in the ALUMNUS: "Escapade to Rome" alumni tour being organized for Holy Week and Easter. We guarantee on this end that you will treasure the memory of it Sign up! 
Why not? Alumni appeared at our door as far back as dass of '09, all hale 'n' hearty. Now we have guests such as JOHN MILLER '17, captain of the track team and varsity ftiUback, along with wife SMC '14 and her sister SMC Academy '14. Then came Judge BILL JONES '28 with wife and daughter, as well as BILL McSORLEY '22 with wife and son. Other recent guests were: retired professor WALTER SHILTS and wife—parents of Rev. JAMES SHILTS CSC—with Father's aunt^ Rev. JOHN WILSON CSC '32 with Sacred Shrines Pilgrimage; Rev. DAN CURTIN vrith Holy Cross Fathers' Pilgrimage; AUSTIN SOBCZAK '40, '42 and family; STEPHEN GRELIKER '42; LAN DUDAK '48; Rev. PHILIP ARM­STRONG CSC '55, son of U-NO-WHO; the one-and-only Header of forthcoming "Escapade to Rome") Bro. CHESTER RACHELASI CSC '58; parents of Prof. ROBERT HASSENGER '59; mother of PETER SUTHERLAND '55 Cprexy Rhode Island Club) and COLIN '61; mother of TOM HARVEY '63, '66 and ROB '68; JOHN KOSTER '63; DR. ROBERT BROUILLARD '64 and wife; BILL SLATTERY '65 and wife; Navy Lt ANDREW REARDON '67 and his recenUy retired prof, JOHN TURLEY, and wife. 
Papal point: PAUL VI '60 holds audience Wednesday forenoons. Tickets not required. 
Blesses from his window Sundays at noon. 
ND Roman hospitality: Welcome to an 
comets at our ND Hostility CMter, 
Largo Brancaccio 82, Tel: 730.002. We are 
near central rail-air terminal, and we're 
open weekdays noon to nine. 
Vince McAloon '34 
SAN ANTONIO 
To date, the year 1969 has seen two major 
gatherings of San Antonio alumnL On 
Universal Notre Dame Ni|^t we welcomed 
Prof. James Carberry of the ND chemistty 
department and celebrated the event with 
a cocktail hour and Texas steak dinner 
at San Antonio's Bam Door Restaurant 
Elected by acclamation that ni^t was our 
new club president, JAMES F. CARROLL. 
On Oct 24, 17 stalwart supporters of the Green flew en masse to New Orkans for a weekend of fun in the French Quarter, fine feasting and victory over Tulane: Any ND graduates assigned to the San Antonio area for the military or otherwise are encouraged to call LARRY KEOUGH or Jim Carroll for news of future events it they have not already been contacted by the club. 
Larry Keough '61 
SAN FRANCISCO BAY The new fiscal year for the San Francisco Bay Area ND Club was enthusiastically received by locals in attendance at the club's October luncheon. Among those seen at the luncheon were BOB SCHROEDER '39, JOHN HAFF '48, CHUCK HAF­FRON, KEVIN O'SHEA '50, BILL WEILER '48, ROBIN CORKERY '62, BILL GALVIN '61 and BILL REAGAN. 
The club calendar was loaded with fall activities, which included the Notre Dame-Georgia Tech TV party at the St Francis Hotel. Members who attended the buffet dinner included WARREN HOLTZ '57, GEORGE QUITER '64, JOE BRACCO '62, AL ADAM '50, ANDY LIPNOSKY 
•49 and JOHN CELLA '39. The dub scheduled a beer party for Dec. 3 at the Schlitc brewery in San Francisco. The party was open to all members and their guests, li e club is considering the possibility of a Christmas dance to be held in conjunction with the California Club on the ND campus. 
Arrangements are being completnl with Ed Traile '70, California Club president 
Gerald C. Smith '61 
SPOKANE The club proudly salutes four of its student members: Mike Oriard 70, cocaptain of football; Nick Scarpelli "70, captain of baseball; BiU Etter 72 and Bob Minnix 72, members of the second offenave football unit Local newspapers are giving these young men well-deserved publidty. 
Plans are being made for the observance of Universal Notre Dame Alunui Com­munion Sunday. The speaker for the occasion will be one of the club members from the distaff side, Sr. MARY MICHELLE FCSP '62. Sister is supervisor of the teaching members of her order. 
The club officers extend to all its members and their families sincere wishes for a truly merry Christmas and happy new year. 
Joe Walsh '14 TUtSA 
The ND Chib ot Tuba had a grand 
turnout for its annial preseisaa football 
pqt tally. The pep laUy was held at die 
Oila Country Club on die evening ot 
Sept 10. 
Those that attended enjoyed a delicioiB roast beef dinner, followed by President FARRIS SAFFA't intiodoctioii of the goeM speaker, Hngh Knaerty, who is a fbnner president of the Texas Baseball League and is presently with Ada Oil Co. He is known as a most aiticniate afier-diniieT veaker, and he kept the ND chd> amused with his quips and jokes amccininf ND and its football team. 
FoUowing Finneity's siieecb, the dub and its guests enjoyed watching the hi^ilights movie of the 1968 ND football season. The final event of die evening was BOBBY SIEGFRIED'S '37 announcement that the SUMMA campaign for the Tuba area had exceeded its goal by almost 100 per cent 
Ray H. Siegfried H '65 
WASHINGION, DX. Monthly hmcheon hdd Oct 14. Coogtess­man Andrew Jacobs Jr., tUrd-term democrat from Indiana, a member of the Judicial Committee andDisttictofCbbmbia Committee of the House gave a most interesting talk on the Moratorium md various congressioaal ccmcenis. ^lecial train trip to the ND-Aimy game in New York City was a great success on Oct 11, with the Docs of Dixidand providing the musical entertainment on the way to and from the game. Over 200 went on the train. 
Rev. THEODORE M. HESBURGH received the Cardinal dbbons Award at Catholic U. on Nov. 8, and a large turnout observed the reception of this award. 
The Georgia Tedi-ND party was arranged by Bob Cooney lor Nor. IS. For the Nov. 18 luncheon. Congressman Marvin Esch, Repiesentative from Midiigaii, qnke on the current topic regarding education and labor. PAOL POLKING was the chairman of the Junior Village outing on Dec. 6. The groi9 made its return from the July outing. 
J. RonaM Lynch '56 
WESTEIN WASmNGTON Western Washington alumnus had an active late fan. with the dub qionsoiing three of its aimual events at tUs time. On Oct 29, during a combination smoker and business meeting, CURT HENEGHAN, varsity end last year, narrated the football highlights movies of the ND 1968 seasrai; TOM MAY and JIM LYONS talked about their visit to the campus last May; and JERRY KANE rqnrted from die Ahmmi Board. 
The auxiliary's TV football game party was hosted by Jim and Rose Lyons. Brenda Adamczak was the chef for a spaghetti and wine dinner that followed the game. It was a ball! 
Mass for the Communion breakfast was hdd at St Louis Church in Bdlevue on Dec. 7 at 11 ajn. Breakfmt fdlowed at Byron's Country Kitchen in Bellevue. OLLIE and Fran FLOR were cochainnen for the event 
The dub wishes all its 280 members a meny Christmas and a "take part in club events" new year. 
BiU Hetfaer '58 


GRADUATE SCHOOLS 
Christian life-style seiiool proposed 
A Marianist Brother in the graduate 
department of education at ND 
has proposed a pilot school to put 
a new and vital religious meaning 
back into Catholic education, which, 
he says, it now lacks. 

Bro. Anthony Ipsaro SM has suggested a life-style school as an alternative to the traditional Catholic school, where he believes religion courses had been taught primarily through a catechism approach which has little to do with personal experi­ences. The teaching Brother, who rejects the idea that a faith can be taught as another cognitive experience, seeks a school which will help develop a generation of Christians able to take Christian humanistic values, internalize them and adopt them as a life-style rather than merely learning about them. 
In the pilot school Ipsaro proposes —and he envisions it only as an alternative, not THE answer—the religion department with the entire faculty is the hub of the school, but the entire educational community, including students, faculty and parents, is involved. After a value is selected by the entire community to be con­centrated upon for part of a term, all segments of the institution are involved in active study and practice of the value. If Christian friendship is selected, for example, students will study significant works of literature, history and philosophy, with the background of the New and Old Testaments. Not only will classes con­cerned directly with the liberal arts be involved in studies of specific works about the value, but even the science and math classes will practice friendship by adopting, for example, group methods of study. 
Ipsaro, the former superintendent of Catholic schools in Baltimore, foresees some of the faculty members of the religion department going to homes of students and serving as springboards in conducting an adult school to involve parents. The parents, too, in Ipsaro's proposal, must learn about and practice the 
value being studied. After deciding ways the school can best exemplify the values, the institution becomes an important part of the community by demonstrating the value. Specific ways through which the school might do this would be to loan the gym to community groups or to provide tutors for disadvantaged students in the community. Most important in the formation of the school, according to Ipsaro, it that the institution becomes an outflow for the natural expression of the value under consideration, which, he believes, will involve extensive or­ganizational and personal changes in methods and approaches of Catholic schools as they exist today. 

An important aspect of the school proposed by Ipsaro is the group— whether it consists of parents, students, faculty or a combination of the three elements. In-search training, to familiarize individuals with themselves and their reactions to others, would be utilized as a means of breaking barriers established between people. 
Ipsaro's motivation to propose the pilot school stems from a strong belief in religious-oriented schooling. He's concerned that the Church is pulling out of the educational com­munities simply because of financial problems, when, in his view, that is where the Church is needed most. And his evidence is convincing—he notes that about SO per cent of the population in 1970-71 is predicted to be under the age of 25, with three-fourths of that percentage in educational climates. 
Another obvious motivation for Ipsaro's proposal is his attitude about people. He describes himself as "very optimistic" and states: "While I recognize bad, confusing and disturbing things in our society, I think we still have the resources to make the world just a little better." 
And his Christian school proposal is one of his ways to "better" the world in general and Catholic education in particular. 
Bro. Anthony Ipsaro SM 
BIOLOGY The last issue's deadline caught your correspondent with a desk full of work. My apologies to those who regularly read these paragraphs. The delay did not hurt the mail response, however. 
DONALD J. MULCARE Ph.D. '68 was named an assistant professor of biology at Southeastern Massachusetts Techno­logical Institute, North Dartmouth, Mass. RAYMOND WOOD Ph.D. '55 is on the faculty at Orange County Community College, Middletown, N.Y. He is currently on a sabbatical leave and is working widi Dr. John D. Mizelle at Sacramento State College, Calif. Ray also contributes his services to the community and is presently president of the Board of Education in Middletown. ARTHUR STEVENS Ph.D. '49 is dean of life science, health and related technology at Portland Community College, Portland, Ore. 
Bro. LAWRENCE STEWART CSC 
M.S. '61 has been teaching at St John's School, a combination high school and junior college in Sekondi, Ghana, for the past eight years. KEITH HARTBERG Ph.D. '68 and ANDREW McCLELLAND, postdoctoral research associate '63, are together at the World Health Organization Aedes Research Unit in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. Andie is the chief of the unit. WILLIAM R. KLEMM Ph.D. '63 is currently on the faculty in the Department of Life Sciences, Texas A. and M., College Station, Tex., and recently published a definitive text entitled Animal Electroencephalography. 
Ralph E. Thorson Department of Biology Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
ENGLISH Congratulations to Sr. GLORIA LEMIEUX PM Ph.D. '66, who was recently named president of Rivier College, Nashua, 
N.H. She has served Rivier in various capacities, ranging from instructor and department chairman to assistant to the president for a total of 10 years. 
DONALD HAYNES Ph.D. '68 is teach­ing a graduate seminar in American literature at the U. of Seattle. An instructor at the U. of Montana, JOSEPH 
R. MILLICHAP M.A. '62 partidpated in the Head Start program there last summer. MARGARET M. SWEENEY M.A.T. '68 is now teaching junior-high-school English in Waltham, Mass. 
Prof. Rufus W. Ranch retired from the University at the end of the summer session. His colleagues and former students salute him for his distinctive contributions to the English program at ND, where for 42 years he taught courses in Shakespeare, Dante and Renaissance literature. 
In September, Dr. James P. Dougherty succeeded Dr. Edward Vasta as director of graduate studies in English. Currently the graduate enrollment of the department is 103 students, most of whom are seeking the doctorate. The 33 new students include 10 men and 23 women. The department is currently engaged in a review of its Ph.D. curriculum. Dr. Dougherty invites recent graduates to send him commentson the program and suggestions for revision. 
Prof. Charies Muscatine of the U. of California at Berkeley delivered this year's Ward-Phillips Lectures on "Poetry and Cultural Crisis in the Age of Chaucer." 
Congrats 
GEORGE T. GMITTER M.A. '47. PhJ>. 'SO will supervise product development, pilot plant operations and technical service programs in his new position as technical director of the General Tire and Rubber Co.'s chemical division at Akron, Ohio. He has been with General Tire for 14 years. 
JOHN C. NOYES PhJ). '52 has 
been named director of the Boeing Scientific Research Laboratory, Seattle. Noyes, the father of three children, joined Boeiiig in 1951 and currently has the responsibility of 
managing much of the fundamental research conducted by the company. 
LEONARD P. BIERANOWSKI Ph.D. '53 has been named director of research and development for the Pittsburgh Brewing Co. In his new position, he is responsible for planning and investigating developments in brewing and packaging. 
MICHAEL J. PIERCE M.A. "57, 
formerly an IBM mariceting repre­sentative and instructor at ND and Ohio State, has joined the Cambridge Computer Corp. as director of education. The company is an industry-specialized data processing organization with headquarters in New York. 
JOSEPH A. MARTELLARO M.A. '58, PhJ>. '62 assumed the duties of associate dean of the graduate school at Northern Illinois U. in DeKalb on Sept 1. He b married and the Either of three sons. 
ROBERT T. DECK Ph.D. '61 has 
been named a recipient of an 
outstanding teacher award at the U. of Toledo. An assistant professor of physics, he was one of four to receive the award from among 59 
nominees; all four winners were 
awarded $1,000. 
Information about alumni for this column is earnestly solicited. Holiday greetings to an. 
Robert M. Slabey 
Department of English 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 

HISTOBY Rev. THOMAS BLANTZ CSC has been appointed archivist at ND, following the recent death of Rev. THOMAS T. McAVOY. WILLIAM GARFIELD is currently teaching in the Fillmore Unified School District in California. PHILIP RILEY has returned to South Bend after several years with the armed forces. He is spending this year writing his doctoral dissertation. 
At last report, many months ago, BERNARD LALOR was in Turkey doing research for a dissertation on the adminis­trative history of the Ottoman Empire in the 19th century. RALPH PASTORE has spent the past year and a half at the 
U. of Newfoundland. He declares the fishing in that part of the world to be markedly superior to that in northern 
Tmtiana 

JOHN LYON, late of Duquesne, has been at ND the past two years in a newly created department, the history and phflosophy of science. THOMAS CLINCH has been at Carroll College in Helena, Mont., for many years. 
Rev. MARVIN O'CONNELL has published an excellent book on the Oxford Movement entitled The Oxford Conspirators (MacmiUan). Fr. O'Connell is associate professor of history at St Thomas College in St Paul, Minn. Some years ago he published another book, Thomas Stapleton and the Counter Reformation. He :dso finds time to write a syndicated news­paper column. 
Bernard Norling Department of History Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 

MATHEMATICS A scattering of news about former students of ours has reached me. ANJAN SHUKLA Ph.D. '67 was appointed assistant professor of mathematics at the U. of Hawaii in Honolulu. ROBERT BURCKEL was promoted to assistant professor of mathematics at the U. of Oregon. Prior to going to Oregon in 1966, he was a Woodrow Wilson Fellow and a National Science Foundation Fellow at Yale U. He received his M.A. (1963) and Ph.D. 
(1968) degrees from Yale. He is married to the former Glenna E. Ferris of New York City. 
JAMES C. MCDONALD M.S. '65 was named outstanding faculty member for 1%8-1969 at Momingside College, Sioux City, Iowa, where he is a member of the nuUhematics department and director of the computer center. He has been a faculty member since 1965. STEPHEN R. FRANCE M.S. '68 has joined the faculty of Maiersville (Pa.) State College as associate professor of mathematics. RAYMOND BAROS M.S. '67 has been named an instructor in mathematics at El Paso Community College, and MAR­GARET M. BOGACZ M.S. '69 was named an instructor in mathematics at Saint Xavier College, Chicago. ROBERT VELTE N M.S. '58 has accepted a teaching assistantship in the U. of Cincinnati's department of mathematics. 
I invite all of our farmer gtadnate students to send me news about tfaenndTes for indusion in this cohmm. 
George Kolettis 
Department of Mathematics 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
PHYSICS Your columnist recently receiwd a short note from EMU. "MIKE" BANAS stating that he read the oobmia in die September issue of the ALUMNUS wifli personal interest (the adumn conliineJ a lengthy account of Mike's many actinties and accomplishments) but that Us wife found the write-up on TMkf RUANE much more interesting, haviof wanted die Ruanes' address for quite some time. Sorry about that, Mik^ bat rm luvpr to learn that Margaret enjoyed part of the column, too. All of iriiidi points iq> the fact that your cdumnist can npply addresses for most of our piqpiics PhJ>. alumni and that he will be hVPT to do so upon request And now bade again to the task of suppiymg you widi names, addresses and activities ai more at our lAysics PhJ>. alumni, still vintace 1950-59. 
FRED G. HEWITT '58 (Iniii polymer physics), wife, Carol, and five diOdren, Kevin, John, Aim, Jeamie and Martin, would be happy to receive letters from you addressed to Rt 1, St Paul, Minn. 55111. From 1957-61, Fred served as assistant professor of physics at the CoDege of St Thomas, St Paid, Minn. He joined UNIVAC, St Paul, Minn., in 1961, irtiere he now holds the position of prindpal physicist Fred's big bobby is soaring. He is a member of the Soaring Society of America and also president of die Red Wing Soaring Assn. Better send your Christinas cards to the Hewitts airmaiL 
THOMAS H. WARD '58 (nndear spectroscopy), wife, Margaret, and four children, Mary, Thomas m , Kathleen and John, live at 342 Keats Rd, Huntington Valley, Pa. 19006. Tom served as diairman of the department of physics at LaSaDe College, Philaddphia, Pa., from 1958-61, holding the rank of assistant professor. He joined the Budd Co., Philaddphia, Pa., in 1961 as corporate manager, physical research. Since January, 1968, he has been serving as corporate staff scientist for the Budd Co. His present researdi interests are in the area of computer analysis of shock waves in munitions and ex­plosive forming. 
CECIL B. MAST '56 (dieoretical physics), wife, Mary, and four children, Biigid, Maura, Brian and Cedlia, live at 309 E. Pokagon, Soudi Bend. Ind. 46617. Cecil served as an instructor in physics at ND from 1956-57 and then sptai the next two years at the DuUin Iistitiite for Advanced Study in Itdand. He returned to ND as a member of die faculty of the mathematics department in 1959, and he currendy holds the rank of associate professor of mathematics. I sboold add that Cecil also served as a visidng professor at St Andrews U. in Scotland during the 1965-66 academic year. 
VALENTIN SPIEGEL '56 (nodear physics), wife. Norma, and diree duldren, Ursula, Isolde and Anna, live at 5305 Wapakoneta Rd., Washington, D.C. 20016. After serving with die U.S. Inttiitiy from 1943-46, Val completed tequitwneats for his B.S. degree at Cadiolic U. of America in 1950 and then came to ND for his graduate work in physics. He joined the National Bureau of Standards, 

Washington, D.C, in 1955 and cunendy 
holds Ae position of physicist in 
NBS's neutron physics sectkm. 
That's an for Ais time. Meny 

Christmas to aU. 
Robert L. Anthony 
Department of Physics 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
SOCIOLOGY AND ANTHKOFOLOGY Statistics, even for the most data-minded sociologist, can be ctushintJy boresome. Yet a few simple facts and figures may serve better dun die proverbial thousand words to describe at least part of what is happening in the department Opemnlg day of the 1969-70 academic year found us with a full-time staff of 23 to administer to the needs of 191 undergraduate majors and 55 graduate students in residence. Eadi of these figures represents a new high, and together thqr reveal the extent to whidi the department has grown. 
Bolstering the staff are three additional sdidats: Harry Izmitlian (PhD. Bericdey), an Indianist specializing in political anthropcdogy; Rev. Ernest Brande­wie (PhD. Chicago), a visiting professor of anthropidogy lAose interests lie in Southeast Asia, particularly the Phffippines and Oceania; aind Rev. Lawrence Saha CSC (PhJ>. Texas), a protege of Leonard Broom with specialties in the sociology of deviance and the community. Meanwhile, Prof. Irwin Press and his family have set up shop in Spain, idiere be will devote his one-year leave of absence to extending our knoiriedge of fdk mcdirinc. 
GORDON J. DIRENZO has returned to Indiana U. South Bend after a one-year Senior Fulbri^t Professorship in Sociology at the U. of Rome. Despite the disropdve effects of student and UaAtf strikes and the innumeraUe distractions one invariably encounters when at the center of world dvilization, he managed to lecture extensivdy throughout Italy and also to conduct a study of Italian student movements. His Personality, Power and PMtics, like most best seUeis, finally came out in a paperback edition (Notre Dame Press). 
DAVE THOMAS MJi. '66 is now an instructor in theology at Loyola U., New Orleans. He and his wife were recenUy blessed widi th ^ second child. PETER KRATCOSKI MJi. '62 recdved a doctorate in sociology from Pennsjdvania State U. After several years at Indiana U. Soudi Bend, BILL AHO accepted a posi­tion in the sodcdogy department at Franklin and Marshall College in Lancaster, Pa. TOM BRITTENHAM M.S. '51 and BILL MARTINEAU M.A. '67, by remarkable coinddenc^ simultaneously joined Ohio Wesleyan U.'s Department of Soddlogy this falL Previously, Tom had been very active in social.work and probation. MIKE CONWAY is beginning his second year as a member of the sociology staff at Boidiiig Green State U., Kentucky. 
Fall's first snow flurries and the date this issue is to go to press suggest that I sign off by extending to you and yours the department's very best wishes for the holiday season and the new year. 
Robert H. Vascdi Department of Soddogy and Anthropology Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
ON RECORD 
ENGAGEMENTS 
Miss Maiyann Diegits to JOSEPH HUBER '68. Miss Edith Marie Boehm to Army Lt THOMAS A. CAREY '69. Miss Martha Elizabeth UUeiy to RAYMOND ALLEN CASTON '69. Miss Kathryn Lynn Dolezal to JEROME JOSEPH CLAEYS HI M.BJL '69. Miss Susan Marie Davis to DENNIS ANDREW GEORGE '69. Miss Jennifer D. Carison to MICHAEL D. RYAN '69. 
MARRIAGES 
Miss Dianne Forrest Nuckolls to JOHN PATRICK. BLADEL 'S2, Oct 25. Miss Patricia Pieilott to ROBERT C. FINDLAY '60, LL.B. '64, June 7. Miss Maiy Petroni to LAURENCE ANTHONY HANRAHAN '60, Nov. 15. Miss JANET M. CORMIER M.A '66 to O. L. Siebenthal, Aug. 16. Miss Nancy Jean Konczyk to PAUL JOSEPH WALLACE '67, Oct. 18. Miss Marda Ann Hubbard to MICHAEL E. COONEY '68, Jan. 25. Miss Elizabeth Ann Harrigan to ANTHONY A. FRIEROTT '68, June 7. 
Biitnis 
Mr. and Mrs. ANTHONY J. PANZICA '50, a daughter, EUzabeth, May 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES RICHARD FEES '57, a daughter, Christina Marie, March 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS J. SMITH '59, a son, Daniel Patrick, May 30. Mr. and Mrs. GERALD P. LALLY '60, a son, Kevin, March 27. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS HANLEY '62, a son, Christopher Brian, Jan. 10. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS R. BUTLER '64, a son, Michael David, Oct. 2. Mr. and Mrs. R. MICHAEL HOLT '64, a daughter, Kelley Anne, Jan. 20. Mr. and Mrs. ED PIERSON '68, a daughter, Nancy Jo, Oct 10. 
SYMPATHY 
WALTER L. SHILTS '22 on the death of his wife, Antoinette, Oct 26. She was the mother of Rev. JAMES L. SHILTS CSC '49, JOSEPH L. SHILTS '55 and THOMAS W. SHILTS '61. 
JAMES R. MORRISON '34 on the death of his father, James M. Morrison, Aug. 11. WILLIAM E. COTTER JR. '41 on the death of his wife, Mary, Oct 14. 
WILLIAM J. WALDRON JR. '44 on the death of his father, William J. Waldron, Sept 24. Mr. Waldron was the grand­father of WILLIAM J. WALDRON UI •69. 
EDWARD J. SWEENEY '54 on the 
death of his wife, Maiy Lou, June 1. 
MICHAEL HENN '61 oo the death of 
his father, Oct IS. 
JOHN H. MCNEILL JR. '62 on the 
death of his father, John McNeilL 
JOHN C. KANALEY '64 on the death 
of his mother, November. 
DEATHS 
JOHN J. McSHANE SR. Ph.B. 'IS. He is survived by his son, JOHN J. McSHANE JR. '48, 706 University, Grosse Pointe, Mich. 
RAYMOND A. BLACK '22, Oct 30. He is survived by his widow, 101 S. Pittsburgh St, Connellsville, Pa. 15425. 
HENRY F. BARNHART '23, MJL 
•24, Nov. 9. He resided in Dallas, Tex., and is survived by his sister. Miss Mardia Bamhart, Columbus, Ohio. 
Dr. OWEN J. NICHCa.SON '24, Sept 23. At Notre Dame, he played football under Knute Rockiie, and he was a physician and surgeon on the staff of Fisher-Titus Hospital, Norwalk, Ohio, since 1928. He is survived by his widow, 410 Citizens Bank BIdg., Norwalk, Ohio, and by one son. 
EUGENE N. DALY '25, September. He is survived by his family, 918 Stolp Ave., Syracuse, N.Y. 13207. 
EDWARD JOHN GEBBEN LL.B. '26, October. He was an ofiScial of the FBI and General Services Administration. He is survived by a sister, Leona J. Hill, of Pasadena, Calif. 
JOHN JOSEPH HOWARD '28, Oct 4, of a heart attack. He is survived by his window, 640 S.E. 2nd Ave., Boynton Beach, Fla. 33455. 
JAMES THOMAS PARKER '28, October. He resided in Gulfiport Miss. 
WILLIAM E. CASSIDY Ph.BC. '30, September. He resided at 1806 Metairie Rd., Metairie,^ La. 70005. 
Dr. FRANCIS J. HAND '30, Sept 23. He is survived by his widow, 527 Hanover St, Manchester, N.H., by two sons, DAVID J. '57 and TIMOTHY F. '62. and by three daughters. 
Rev. PATRiCK R. DUFFY CSC '31. He resi^d at Holy Cross House, Notre Dame, Ind. 
J. LANSING MacINTYRE '31, Sept 14. He is survived by his family, induding his son, BRUCE J. MacINTYRE '59, 2512 Irving Place, Billings, Mont 
AMBROSE MICHAEL SIOEPLER '31, September. He is survived by his widow, 4S0 E. Big Beaver, Troy, Midt 
480S4. 
JOHS J. COAKLEY -32, Noventer. He is surrived by his widow, 516 Laud Dr., Rockfoid. m 61107. 
JOSEPH B. SIEMER -32. Ang. 22. He was c hail man of tbt FiBiighaiu County (m.) Republican Central Cbimnittee and had served eiilit yean in die IDinots legislatme. He is sanrived by his widow, Tenttvolis, IB. 624C7, and Iqr one danghter and two sons. 
JMIN ANDREW HWKINS '3fi, Oct 9. While at Notre Dame, he was a guard on Ae vani^ basketball team. He was cqxain of the team in 1935. He is survived by his widow, 318 5di Ave., Bradley Beadi, N J. 07720, by a dan^ter and two sons. 
NORBERT A. ALEKSIS '39. Oct 16, in an automobile accident He was a major in the Air Fbtce in Worid War U and after the war was associated with a New Yoric radio station. He is survived by his father, 76 Center St, Wyteibmy. CMm. 06702. 
R(»ERT H. DIECKELMAN '39, October, of a heart attack. Re was sales director for die Pressed Sted Tank Co., West Allis, Wis. He is survived by hb widow and four sons, ISOS Chuidi St, Efan Grove, Wis. 53122. 
VINCENT A. DOYLE '40; Oct 14, of a heart attack. He was an attorney for the legislative reference service of the Library of Congress and the author of a number of papers on dvil ri|)its and constitutional law. He is survived by his widow, 5138 Ndiraskm Ave, Washington, 
D.C. 20008, by two sons and two stepdaughters. 
DONALD E. KRALOVEC '41, July 31. He is survived by Us widow, 1204 W. Hillgrove, Western firings. ID. 60558, by three daui^ters and two sons. 
WILLIAM J. WAUHION '41. Sept 24. Sr. M. ELLEN CECILE TAZELAAR 
M.S. '47, October. She was assigned to St NidKdas of Toientine Sdiool. Chinao, m. 60629. 
Rev. FLORENCE F. H06TE MJL '5^ Fd>. 5. He residEd at the St Frands Friary, Mishawaka, Ind. 
HUGH J. SWEENEY '53, Nov. 10; of a heart attadt He was employed as an aeronautical engineer at Pratt and Whitney division. United Aircraft Corp, East Hartford, Coaa. He is survived by his widow, two sons and two dan^tm, 58 Norton Lane,'Wapping, Conn. 
Rev. FRANCIS SEIDEL MJL 'S4. He was alHiated with Nanzan U. of Nagoya, Japan. 
JOHN E. CHRISTEN '60. Nov. 8. in an auto accident He is survived by hh patents, Mr. and Mrs. Fred E. Christen, RJL 3, Decatur, Ind. 46733. 
(continued from page 5) 

fieedman, and there were 4,000 Negro 
slaveholders. There was also the very 
considerable difference between those 
slaves who were forced to work in 

the fields and those others—^relatively 
more advantaged—who were house 
servants. In terms of contemporary 
experience, a certain unity is imposed 
upon blacks by those whites who 

stereotype Negroes and discriminate 
equally against them. But the failure 
to differentiate among blacks is the 
result of white prejudice and ignor­
ance and should hardly serve as a 

model of belief for those blacks who 
wish to abolish racism in America. 

Of the factors which obstruct black 
unity, there is age—a generational 
conflict exists today in the black 

community to the same degree that it 
exists in the white community; and 

geography—blacks have no territorial 
focus for unity, and beyond that, 
there is little shared experience 

between rural and urban Negroes, as 
well as between Southern and 
Northern Negroes. 

But more profoundly, there are differences of class and philosophy. Negroes, like the Irish, Italians, Jews or any other American ethnic group, are divided socially and economically on the basis of class and engage in the same practices of residential "grass­hopping" and job mobility. One may criticize these practices but they must be recognized as sociological realities. Moreover, the white employer is divided from the white employee by virtue of the fact that the profits of the one come out of the wages of other—and vice versa. To deny that 
_this can also be true of blacks is not 
merely to perpetuate an illusion but 
also to lend support to those beliefs 
—that Negroes are inherendy different 
from whites, that they are not subject 
to the same laws governing human 
behavior—which have always been 
used to segregate blacks and deny 
them equal access to the social and 

economic advantages of this country. 
Philosophical differences are as pronounced as class divisions. If one were to ask representatives of various black organizations to draw up a program for the education of Negro children, the plans would be far from identical. The Muslims would propose a program based on the teachings of Elijah Muhammad, the NAACP plan w(Mild be integrationist and CORE would demand separate black school districts. There are also serious philosophical differences among the most extreme groups. Those who wish to build a political movement by appealing solely to the racial consciousness of blacks will be deeply disillusioned. 

The myth of black capitalism 

The fact that black capitalism has been proposed by Richard Nixon is by itself enough to make one question its efficacy as an economic program. But it is also being proposed by many other people and by some leaders of CORE and consequently warrants close analysis. 
I favor some aspects of the proposal for black capitalism more for psychological than for economic reasons because it is important to destroy the brutal stereotype that black people are incapable of engaging in entrepreneurial activity. But the economic impact of black capitalism has been—^and can only be—marginal at best, and if we are not careful, this approach may actually compound the injustices from which Negroes suffer. 
There is, first, the very simple fact that the vast majority of black petite are not capitalists and will not become capitalists in the foreseeable future. They are salaried workers, and those most in need are the working poor and the unemployed. Any program to economically uplift the majority of black people must be designed specifically for these individuals. 
Now black capitalism does not appear to me to be so designed. Its main beneficiaries will be a small number of entrepreneurs, and because of the conditions under which they must earn a living, they will have a stake in racial separatism—a condition that has never been conducive to black progress. In general, black entrepreneurs must oppose ecoiKMnic integration for the simple reason that they are threatened by wlute economic competition. Andrew Brimmer, the only Negro member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, has pointed out that "with the progress of desegregation the considerable protection which segregation provided for Negro 
businessmen has been eroded sub­stantially. Thus, in virtually every large city (especially in the East and Midwest), hotels and better-class restaurants which previously catered exclusively to Negroes have en­countered hard times." Much of the talk we are hearing about black capitalism today, therefore, results from the desire to restore a black monopoly over a segregated black market. Yet this has been difficult in the face of competition from large chain organizations, particulariy since, as Brimmer notes, some black enter­prises, due to high operating costs in the ghetto, have been forced to raise their prices 10 to 15 per cent above those of their larger competitors. I cannot see how under such an arrangement a black worker or welfare recipient can benefit from "buying black." 
But I can see how they will benefit by federal programs to re­construct our cities, to provide fiill employment, a decent income and adequate health care for everybody and to improve the quality of educa­tion in our schools. To the degree that talk of black capitalism diverts our attention and political energies away from this fundamental solution, to the social and economic problems of black Americans, to that degree its ultimate effect will be deleterious. And to the degree that it reinforces racial separ­atism it will exascerbate those problems of poverty and discrimina­tion which derive from separatism. 


The myth of reparations 
Reparations is attractive as a concept, but as a program it is impractical and politically reactionary. The power of the concept derives from its call for justice, and certainly no individual of good will can deny the magnitude of the injustices that have been committed against black people in America. But it is equally a call for retribution, and as such it has become more a moral than a political demand. James Forman is, in effect, not demanding equality for black people so much as he is condemning white people. He seeks not to correct social injustice but to judge white guilt. 
It is in part for this reason that he has chosen to direct his attack at the church, the institutional embodiment of our society's moral and religious 
New trustee Bayard Rustin. 

pretentions. But I would question the 
efficacy and the social utility of an 
attack that impels the attacked to 
applaud and morally debase them­
selves. And I would doubt that two 
such hate- and self-hate-generating 
feelings as Forman's moral aggression 
and white churchmen's guilt can 
produce anything that is socially 
creative. Certainly such feeling will 
not improve the lot of the unemployed 
black man and the miseducated black 
child. 
But of course it will be said that Forman is demanding money—^"$15 per nigger," to quote his own words. This pittance, if ever given, would hardly right the balance of wrongs committed against black people, nor would it appreciably improve their present situation. Most black people, I am sure, do not even desire such charity. They want work with dignity. Justice will be embodied in their attainment of an equal social position, not in the flagellation and self-flagellation of white people. 
Moreover, the political effect of the demand for reparations can only be reactionary. It will, first, tend to isolate blacks from any political allies. Demands of a purely racial nature cannot appeal to the white poor who have common interests with blacks. And I do not trust those a£Suent whites who, out of guilt, are sympathetic to reparations. Guilt is an uncomfortable emotion, and the guilty party will ultimately rationalize his sins and afiirm them as virtues. By such a process, today's ally can become tomorrow's enemy. Political alliances are not built on the shifting sands of moral suasion. 
Second, it is an error for black people to focus their struggle on so organizationally diffuse and non­political an institution as the church. This can only deflect their attack away from the major political and economic institutions of the society aiid thus seriously weaken the effectiveness of the black movement for equality. The church may have been chosen as a target because of its vulnerability, but it is precisely because of this debility that black people must concentrate their energies elsewhere. 

The myth of black studies 
... What Black Studies should mean is a thorough and objective scholastic inquiry into the history of the black man in America. This history has been scandalously distorted in the past, and, as a field of study, it has 
been relegated to a second<lass status, 
isolated from the main themes of 
American history and omitted from 
the historical education of American 
youth. 
But I am afraid that Black Studies, 
as it is presendy conceived by its 
proponents on campus, will not 
correct these errors so much as 
compound them, for its primary 
purpose will be to further ends that 
are fundamentally nonscholastic. It 
is hoped, first, that Black Studies will 
serve the ideological function of 
creating a mythologized history and 
a system of assertive ideas that will 
facilitate the political mobilization of 
the black community. Such an 
ideological undertaking would neces­
sitate the substitution of a ^orified 
version of black history for the 
present debased version, but neither 
version seems unduly concerned wtih 
the discovery of historical truth. 
It is also hoped that Black Studies will serve the political function of developing and educating a cadre of activists who conceive of their present training as a preparation for organizational work in the black community. One may feel—as I do —^that there should be more young Negroes engaging in activities designed to uplift their brethren, but to the extent that Black Studies is used as a vehicle for political in­doctrination it ceases to be a legiti­mate scholastic program. 
What I find most distressing about the ideological and political concept­tion of the role of Black Studies is the contempt that is shown toward black history and culture as potential academic disciplines. Faculty mem­bers will be chosen on the basis of race, ideological purity and political commitment—^not academic com­petence. Needless to say, this is not the best way to go about developing an intellectually respectable program. Under such conditions, competent black professors will not even want to teach in Black Studies programs— not simply because their academic freedom will be curtailed by their obligation to adhere to the revdu­tionary "line" of the moment, but because their association with such second-rate programs will threaten their professional status. If such a situation is permitted to develop. Black Studies will become little more than a haven for opportunists and ideologues. 
There is, finally, the psychological function of Black Studies. It is hoped that by studying Negro history and culture, the sdf-JmagB at young blacks will improve. Lnpikit hne u the dual assumption diat Sat, young Negroes have a negative adf-image because secoodi they are ignorant of their hi^ory. If tiicR is truth to either assumptioa, tim I entirdy agrtci tbcy should devote many intensive hours to the study of our people's rich heritage of stiug^ smd achievnnent 
But Black Studies is abo serving the psychcrfogicany protective fimctitm of enabling Mack students iriw have been biutalized in the past by segregated educatioa to withdraw .from the demanding competition of die uni­versity. In this I see little virtue. Providing these students with separate courses of study in soul music and soul poetiy—things they can just ^ y with and pass—win enhance nrither their competence nor their confidence. Nor will it deal with the fundamental proUem of improv­ing the quality of their education in order that they can obtain skills that will be useful in the worid they must eventually enter as adults. 
To s(dve this problem would require larger and better-trained teaching sta ^ remedial efforts and an expansion of facilities, all of ndiidi can be obtained only througli a massive increase in present expendi­tures. And if these changes are not: made, the che^> separatist solution will ultimately boomerang, for VSack Studies can provide psychic comfort for Negro students only tempmarily. When they realize that orilege ad­ministrators are interested more in political accommodation than quality education—^when they realize that New Leftist students and faculty members are using black students for their own revolution-by-proxy— and when they realize that they are not being given an ediicatitn but only a ps^r degree that will hardly improve their, intellectual competence or their economic power, then they will rdiel with far greater violence and bitterness than anything we have yet seen. 
I want to conchide by emphasizing that I am opposed to any program in Black Studies that separates the contribution of black men 6am the sm ^ of American history and society. Racist textbooks and historians have played this game too kng for black­pei^le to add to the damage that has alrcaity been done. The magnificent contributioa of black people to America must be rect^nized and recorded, not only by biask peoi^ but also by whites who can benefit at least as much from such knowledge. 

The myth of violence 

There are those who propose violence as the solution to the problems of poverty and injustice. The rationale here is that by threat of force, black people can extort from the white community the re­sources they need to improve the conditions of their lives. I disagree with this proposition not only because I believe that unjust means cannot lead to just ends but also because the tactic of violence is suicidal. Whites may for a time make minor concessions to blacks who use violence—^and thereby help to dis­credit nonviolence a5 an effective means for achieving social change— but the point must inevitably be reached when the state will take repressive measures which will inflict untold harm upon the black com­munity. Those who romanticize black violence—particularly the pseudo-revolutionaries of the New Left who can retreat into their imiversities and suburbs when the repression comes— deserve special condemnation. 
Moreover, the solution to social injustice cannot be brought about by violence which is calculated to increase white fear and political reaction. Black violence will strengthen George Wallace sooner than it will increase the economic and political power of Negroes. If blacks are enraged because they do not have jobs and whites are fearful that somebody may take their jobs away, the solution is not social warfare but full employment. If blacks are engraged because they do not have decent homes and whites are fearful they will lose their homes that are still not fully paid for, then the solution is not violence destructive to the entire social fabric but the construction of adequate housing for all. It is because what is needed is the expansion of resources in order to reduce competition over what presently exists and to provide a secure existence for everybody that A. Philip Randolph proposed a Freedom Budget for all Americans. 
Finally, I should add that blacks have already suffered great losses tmm the ghetto riots of recent years, not only in lives but also in property and jobs. A study has shown that in Washington, D.C., alone, 4,900 employees—the majority of them Negroes—lost their jobs as a result of the riots which swept the city following Dr. King's death. . . . 

The myth of separation 

Separatism is valid neither firom a psychological nor a political pcMiit <tf view. Dr. Kenneth Claik has recently argued that "there is abstdutely no evidence to support the contention that the inherent damage to human bemgs of primitive exclusion on the basis of race is any less ttamaging when demanded or enforced by the previous victims than when imposed by the dominant group." Some separatists today are withdrawing in despair from American culture, others out of a nationalist affirmation of the desirability of a separate black society. But both are withdrawing from the challenge posed to the Negro by W. E. B. DuBois "to attain self-conscious manhood, to merge his double self into a better and truer self ... to be both a Negro and an American . . . ." 
Even if separatism were psycho­logically sensible—^which it is not—it does not make political sense. The only reason the civil ri^ts bills ot 1964, 1965 and 1968 were passed was because Negroes had allies in the labor movement, the liberal com­munity and in religious organizations. It was only this coalition of forces that had die power to defeat the Republican-Dixiecrat coalition that has traditionally blocked any progress in the field of civil rights. Black separatism will strengthen the cm­servative coalition by weakening its opposition (that is why Republicans and Southern conservatives have always favored segregation), and it will be an obstacle to the realignment of the Democratic party. Let us remember that it was the integrated delegations from Misassippi and Georgia which forced the segrega­tionists from those states out of the last Democratic party convention. 
Black people are being elected to offices throughout the countty for the very reason that they are not campaigning on a separatist line. Charies Evers' slogan—"Dont vote for a black man. Or a vdiite man. Just a good man."—is being adopted in concept by black politiciaos in every region. In the Southern states, the number of black elected ofBaab has increased dramatically in recent years. There were only 72 in 1965 when the Voting Rij^ts Act was passed; today there are 461, and that number is steadily growing. Mm like Evers, Howard Lee, Cail Stdtes and Richard Hatcher are proving that black separatism is an obstacle to black p«Atical power. This point was also proved by Tom Bradley who, thou^ defeated by a man who deliberately aroused racial fears and hatreds, nevertheless won 47 per cent of the vote in a city only 18 per cent black. It is only a matter of time before Los Angeles, too, shall have a black mayor. 
The myth of the black revolution 

I believe that the black struggle for equality is revolutionary, but not in the traditional sense of a violent seizure of state power. The black revcrit is fundamentally cultural in that Negroes are affirming their dignity as black people and are demanding that their humanity be fiilly recognized and appreciated. But politically, blacks are not demanding revolution but participation in the democratic process and the enjoyment of the fruits of American society. In general, they want their ri^tfiil share of the pie. 
Thus, the demand for equality is itself not revolutionary, but the response that must be made in order to satisfy this demand very much is. By this I mean that justice cannot be done to blacks in the absence of a total restructuring of the political, economic and social institutions of this country. There cannot be full employment, the rebuilding of our cities, the reconstruction of our educational system and the provision of adequate medical care for every­body within the context of our present definition of social and economic priorities. When we talk about the achievement of these goals, let us be clear that we are proposing nothing less than the radical refashioning of our political economy. 
The Negro struggle for equality will continue until the kind of revolu­tion I have described is achieved. There will be periods, such as the present, when progress will be slow, and as a result, there will be bitter­ness, frustration and a casting-about for instant solutions that avoid the challenges of fundamental social change. But even in vibat I have called "myths" I see a sign of hope, for they represent a sustained protest against injustice and thus symbolize the refusal to accept the condition of inequality. But our task iqust now be to transform these myths into the reality of a political strategy and a social program so that we can get on with the job of transfoiming America. 
ALtlMNI SPEAK 




In retrospect 
by Leonard H. Skoglund 
President, Alumni Assn. 
As the year draws to a close, a review 
of some of the highlights of 
Alumni Board activity this past year 
is a natural for this report. One 
of the things that an Alumni Board 
member learns quite quickly is that 
ND is definitely a live, fast-moving, 
changing institution. A year on 
the board now is quite an experience, 
and this year has been no exception. 
A number of significant changes 
occurred during this past year that 
will have long-reaching effects 
on alumni activities and participation 
in University development. 
This past year was the first full year of lepresentation of the Alumni Assn. on the board of trustees through the ex-ofiicio appointment of the alumni president. An additional program tying alumni more closely to current University activity has been the creation of the All University Forum. This forum will review and discuss University objectives, policies and programs and includes alumni as one of the five University groups. The other four groups are: 1) students, graduate and undergraduate; 2) faculty; 
3) administration; 4) trustees. 
To cope with this increasing activity and to more effectively rep­resent alumni opinion, the regionally representative character of the Alumni Board became a reality this year with the election in January of the first five regional board members and the nomination this fall of five additional regional represen­tatives. The full IS regionally elected representatives will be functioning next year. 
The Alumni Senate has also become an established alumni institu­tion to assist the board in develop­ing policies and assisting in communications—so necessary to the development of understanding of University programs. Over 100 senators convened on campus last May for a most interesting meeting. Regular regional senate meetings throughout the country are also taking place this fall. The increasing use of students and faculty in local club and senate meetings has 
also helped to develop better 
understanding and dialogue. 
The general activities and recom­

mendations of the Alumni Board 
have been reported in the 
ALUMNUS previously. These 
recommendations covered a wide 
range of subjects, including statements 
of alumni opinion and suggestions 
regarding University policies on 
Placement. Bureau operations, ROTC, 
handling of campus disruptions, 
budget allocations for Admissions 
Office work, postseason football, and 
many other areas. Details of these 
recommendations were previously 
published in various reports in 
the ALUMNUS. 
At the local club level, one of the most significant developments has been the establishment of recruiting committees to work with the Admissions Office. Some outstand­ing achievements in areas that were well organized proved the value of this work. Unfortunately, a number of clubs have not yet fully participated in the program. I hope that all clubs will be fully participating in 1970 and we can give the Admissions Office the help they have requested. 
Your ehoiee 
by James D. Cooney 
Etecutive Secretary, 
Alumni Assn. 
As this reaches your mailbox, the National Alumni Board ballot should be in your hands. This year's exceptional slate signals an even more significant future for the association as we round out our 101st year. Under the new elective procedures, the board shall be composed of IS members, each of whom shall represent one of IS regions in the country. Candidates from five regions shall be nominated and elected each year to serve three-year terms. The ballot lists two nominees for each region (one to be elected). 
The regions with elections this year are: region 3 (Southern California, Arizona and New Mexico); region 4 (Minnesota and Wisconsin); region 7 (Michigan); region 10 (New York state. Southern Connecticut and New Jersey); region 14 (Arkansas, Louisiana, Tennessee, Mississippi and Alabama). 
Here's a quick neap of the can­didates youli be asked to assess. Region 3: R. Parker Sullivan "37, president of General Telephone Co. of California; John C. Lungren 
M.D. 38, internist, cardiologist, and personal physician to President Nixon. Both candidates are from the Los Angeles area. Region 4: Joseph A. Neufeld '44, Green Bay, Wis., in the investment business in Green Bay; Joseph T. O'Neill 'S3, St. Paul, Minn., a second-term member of the Minnesota House of Representatives and a practicing attorney. Re^on 7: Edward A. Bracken Jr. '3S, manager of institutional projects for the General Motors Corp.; John R. "Pep" Panelli '49, president of the 
J.R. Panelli Equipment Co., Inc. Both are Detroit area residents. Region 10: James C. MacDevitt '3S, attorney and partner in a Manhassett, N.Y., lawfirm; John E. McAuliffe '39, vice-president of Eagan Real Estate, Inc., in Syracuse, N.Y. Region 14: Daniel D. Canale '42, attorney and partner in a Memphis, Tenn., lawfirm; John A. O'Brien 'SI, president of O'Brien Engineering in Birmingham, Ala. 
Each of these outstanding candi­dates has been active in alumni club and University development programs for many years. Each hai also devoted extensive time to civic, community and social projects. Once again, alunmi voters will be hard-put to make their choices. One thing is certain—neither the association nor the University can lose! 
Relev«Ht pe«ple 
(continued from page S) 
Journal of Formal Logic. 
Rev. Chester A. Sdeta, former vice-president for academic affairs, whose current scholarly interest is African h'terature. 
Richard T. Sidlivan, professor of English. "A champion of good prose and well-drawn scenes .. . a quiet sufferer of our time's brutality." 
Robert Waddick, assistant dean of liberal arts, and Richard Willemin, director of the develop­mental reading program. "Both care. They listen to students for long hours and help make up for the loneliness." 
James E. Ward, associate professor of history and "a very particular and methodical sclxdar whom no one knows." 
ALUMNI ASK 
Moratorium 

Your "October-November serving," 
which you judged to be "a full, rich 
menu" for my digestion, was, I fear, 
most unpalatable and even more 
indigestible. . . . 

First, your lead article on the (sic) "historic" (?) event was repulsive. It was, I believe, in poor taste since its editorializing tone could not but be offensive to large mmibers of alunmi. It is rather hard to be preached to concerning morality and foreign affairs by a lad who is, in all likelihood, still an inexperienced student It is even more disagreeable when you do not agree with the ten­or of the article and are given nothing in the realm of justification or rationale as to why you should change your judgement but are yet apparently told that somehow you are not among the "best of men." Rather as arrogant and self-righteous (in the bad sense) as the letter reportedly sent by the seven to Mr. Mitchell! But then admittedly I may be a trifle 
hypersensitive after Vice-President Agnew and several of his "opposition" have asked us to choose sides on the basis of whether we oppose rancidity or tyranny. If the lead article in your magazine was even a mild call to sides I cannot but consider it both out of place and harmful. Had it been a reasoned argument it would only have been out of place. 
Second, the photo on the back cover calls up King Henry's advice to Falstaff: How ill white hairs ... . 
W. Mathias Bildhauer M.A. '61 6635 E. Lehigh Dr. Tucson, Ariz. 85710 

Although I am sympathetic to some of the objectives of the Oct. 15 (and Nov. 15) Moratorium(s), I am not sympathetic to the use of the Mass to "sanctify" civil disobedience. More­over, I feel that the statement of the "Magnificent Seven" who tore up their draft cards reflects a naivete and ignorance that is really quite remark­able. From their stand against "con­scripting and channeling young Amer­icans into the service of mass killing," I gather that they would prefer to have the U.S. abandon its military force until the lion is ready to lie down with the lamb. . . . 
As a military man, I sincerely hope that the U.S. gets out of Vietnam honorably and that the waste of American, Vietnamese and other lives is halted soon. But I doubt that the "consecration" of draft cards and the one-sided pronouncement of the seven will contribute much to this effort. Their "happening" at the altar seems really little more than a thea­trical opportunity for them to vent their frustrations. Hopefully, thou^, it will bring them the justice that they so earnestly profess to seek — some time in the "pokey" to think their great thoughts and reflect upon their great moral victory. 
William J. Casey M.A. '62 
Captain, USAF 
7306 Westville 
San Antonio, Tex. 78227 

I would like to commend the staff and Jim Cooney for his very thought-provoking article in the October-November issue. 
This was one of the few times that I have found a perfect word description of today's student—his feelings, drives and desires. In addition, Jim asks some very soul-searching questions that, if answered truthfully, put us in the same position of many of today's condemned protesters. 
I don't consider myself a liberal by definition, but I am thankful that the future of our nation is in the hands of the young. For the most part, these individuals are great and would put many of us in the "silent majority" to shame with their knowledge and depth of under­standing. Many of us who don't have to go to Vietnam and fight get upset at the young people and their campaign to end the war, which in many ways becomes their personal conflict. Is it really strange for those who must do the actual fighting to be upset and attempt to find a solution? 
WiUiam C. Kane '59 2075 Colvin Blvd. Tonawanda, N.Y. 14150 

Please take me off the mailing list for the alumni news magazine, etc. I no longer am proud of the fact that I am an alumnus of ND. As long as Fr. Hesburgh continues in his liberal policies and there are appointments to the board of trustees of people like Bayard Rustin, I would prefer to have no contact with the University. I don't even care if ND loses to whomever they play in the Cotton Bowl. This is the first time I have felt that way about the ND team. I feel that the reason they are playing this game is because of financial problems, and I think financial prob­lems are probably developing because the alumni are sick and tired of the philosophy up there at the University. 
James P. MoUoy Jr. M.D. '48 
6300 Hillcioft 
Houston, Tex. 77036 
I feel impelled to respond to the recent "Alumni Speak" (by Jim Cooney) in the ALUMNUS. I was most im­pressed by the sensitive and carefully nuanced interpretation; the words were richer for having resulted from the anguish and struggle of deep re­flection upon the Moratorium. I was there also and shared many of the feelings. 
I am Avriting also because I am sure a number of your reading public will not be so sympathetic, and I want to balance off the flack the author may receive. 
Reading Jim Cooney's remarks, I was reminded of worth William S. Coffin recently wrote, reflecting on the current political scene in America: "I am not optimistic but I am hope-fill... . Realism demands pessimism. But hope demands that we take a dim view of the present because we hold a bright view of the future; and hope arouses, as something else can arouse, a passion for the possible." That says something about ND's Moratorium, I suspect; and though we don't have a lot of time, we may yet have enough time. 
Rev. William Toohey CSC '52 Assistant Professor of Theology University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
.. . I graduated from ND in 1941 and I had one son graduated with honors in 1965 and a second son graduated in 1968. A third and last son, who is a truly outstanding boy in every way, has just been granted early admission to ND. . . . 
With this background, I feel that it is a sad state of affairs indeed and outright sickening to have my 17-year-old son approach me last nig^t after reading the first four pages of the October-November ALUMNUS and say, "Dad, I really 

wonder if I want to go to that place 
with all those idiots tearing up draft 
cards and (Bering them at Mass in the 
presence of such characters as David 
Darst, Michael CuUen and Dellinger." 
He added that he might be ashamed 
to face his friends after attending ND 
under the present existing state of 
affairs. 
I could only answer that he should not completely judge the entire University composed of some 7,000 or 8,000 people by the actions of a minority, undoubtedly including quite a few outsiders but unfortunately apparently including its president. I told him furthermore that he did not have to change his views or conduct because of others and that he is free, while attending ND, to attempt to sway others toward a different type of thinking. Only to this extent, in my judgment, is there the slightest justification for the type of conduct being allowed and apparently en­couraged at Notre Dame. 
.. . As to the offering of draft cards constituting a law violation in a sacred part of the Mass, I deem this to be a sacrilege and disgusting, to say the least, and it is my intention to withdraw any support of ND in the future, as a purely personal reaction. . . . 
B. P. Fishume Jr. '41 2800 Brandywine St. NW Washington, D.C. 20008 
At ND it seems as if another tradition has bitten the dust! First it was coeducation, then the replacement of a Catholic clergy-type adminis­tration by an ecumenic one, and now it's bowl games. It's hard to imderstand how all of these traditions could have been so eloquently defended a decade ago and now so easily changed. 
You wonder if there is such a thing as a tradition with unchangigng truth. Going a step further to dogma, you wonder if it still exists, or is it, too, going to be eloquently debated away and changed? I am bracing myself for the next change to tradition—i.e., Christ wasn't crucified by the Jews but by a group of right-wing Eskimos. 
George Mojzisek 'S8 8429 Greenway Rd. Baltimore, Md. 21234 
.. . I am sickened at the report on the Moratorium mess. I am sickened at the University's attitude in permitting such activity, and I am dumbfounded in reading of Fr. Hesburgh's joining the march and his remarks in general. I was a student of Fr. Hesbur^'s, have loved, backed and respected him for years. I do not believe I can continue to support him in any way. . . . 
"What action has the University taken against the accused felons who destroyed their draft cards at Mass? Secondly, if the board of trustees wants the financial help of the "old" alumni in the years ahead, what can we expect from the University? Are we to have a school that seeks the bright young lad who is at ND because he has hoped and prayed and studied so that he will qualify to attend — who will take his place in his community as a leader of men and as an example to all — or are we to have these weird stupes who brag about avoiding service for their country, who are not the least thank­ful to God for all the gifts and oppor­tunities he has given them and who obviously care nothing about the reputation, spirit and history of ND? For one, I suggest, with the present trend and with the attitude of the present administration, that the Uni­versity can look to these bearded kooks for future financial assistance. It is obvious they "have" the Uni­versity. . . . 
I sincerely pray for Fr. Hesburgh's immediate resignation. I pray for a return of ND to the old "Cavanau^" philosophies. . . . 
Thomas W. Kerrigan '51 Third Floor, Ohio Bldg. Sidney, Ohio 45365 
. . . The article about the Oct. 15 Vietnam Moratorium highlighting the campus activities of that day was some appetizer. To read about the draft-card-tearing ceremony at the Offertory of the resistance "Mass" is somediing that is really new as far as the liturgy of the Mass. The presence of such "notables" of the draft-board-raiding Catonsville Nine, the Milwaukee 14 and David Dellinger, who is currently standing trial in Chicago on conspiracy charges, really added frosting to the cake. 
If this weren't enough, we read further on in the issue and saw where a new appointee to the board of trustees is someone who was im­prisoned in 1943 in the Lewisburg Penitentiary as a conscientious objector and also spent time on a diain gang in North Carolina. 
About die same time, we lee a 
pictore in die pioi of a '^•m" in 
miniskirt, boots and sweater among 
the demonstraton against die Dow 
Chemical Corp. reciuitfaig acthntiea 
at ND. 
What m«e can we loA forwaid 
to in fiitute imuea—Mark Kndd <rf 
die SDS or Maddeine Mnnay getting 
the Laetaie Medal fmr oootiibutioai to 
society? 
Hopefuify, die best ahead for as is a victory in the Cotton Bowl, wUch wiU be most favtwaUe puUidty in the h^t of iriiat is going on today atND. 
George J. Keenan '48 
177 Ruling H3b Rd. 
Cliflmi, NJ. 07013 
I have been loiAing at that piece tA soul-searching and apologttica, "b . diis what it's aU abontT. diat Jim Cooney did for the most recmt issue of die ALUMNUS, and I must say I am somewhat bodmed by it The justification ot civil disobe^ence puis the author in pretty good oonqiany — there is Gan^ and he waAa in Thoreau by way of Fr. Hesbui^ — and it is diSBcult to qpiaird with the ptinciirie. On the odier hand, a con­sideration of concrete human action solely in the light of princi^es, ignor­ing motivation and dicumstanoes, ronains hi^ily abstract and legitima­tizes almost any conduct TheauthiH' indicates this vdim he suggests doubt about what moved these people to act as they did. 
In their i^qplication of pnadjic, they have assumed a moral posture which puts all the rectitude oa their side and all the vidousness on the side of the establisiunent But there is no consensus on the part of moralists and thedogians that this war is the absdute evil they make it out to be. Even if there were, I would still fed strongly that the school. Church and the Mass were "used." When a i»o­fessional draft-card destroyer and a smdent who has formally rmounced his Catholic faith for die sake of being exempted from a thetriogy course make use of the central act <rf that faith, far «4iatever purpose, raw is inclined to think that die wbcik affair has very little to do with w4iat a Catholic university is aU about 
Richard J. Thompson Assistant Dean Cdlege of Arts and Letters Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
]jr Frarteis P. dar k 
Head, Microfilming & Phni 
Memorial Libra-v °^ Notre Dame, Ind". 


s<^ i 
'# 

(? -2(B?ia!!5?=«73S?!CJr«: 
Reprieve! 
The stately old palace that has come to symbolize Notre Dame and its indomitable spirit to many may have been granted a stay of execution. Doomed to destruction this fall because no one could suggest a feasible and practical use, the fieldhouse—hallowed old shell that it is—may now become an art center. 
At a recent rally to save the structure for such a purpose. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, University president, offered to consider three points with University officials. He ap­proved the idea of an art center on campus, as recommended by the University Arts Council. He agreed to consider granting a six-month delay of the razing of the building. He indicated he would help arrange meetings between Dr. Thomas Fern, chairman of the art department, and University officials and architects to discuss the problems and costs involved in renovating the fieldhouse. 
WHAT THOUGH THE ODDS BE GREAT OR SMALL 



