The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
-^.irW'.CTf:. 
-• J Wr-.  ­^  
• Kv .  ^  
/<^­ 
•^ss«r,  #  '  I'  
liCEiOIIANOIHER •'*^'^S'-J'i'I'i-'llx% ^-'•^'St^iStt'^^-Sf: '•  

Vol. 47 No. 1 February 1969 
James D. Cooney ExEcun\-E SECRETARY 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION John P. Tburin '59 
EDITOR 
Tom Sullivan '66 
^IANAGING EDITOR 
Meg Zwcts 
ASSISTANT EDITOR Bill Mitchell '71 Mike XfcCauley '69 John McDcrmott '70 
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Af. Bruce Harlan '49 CHIEF PUOTOGRAPHER 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OFFICERS 
Richard A. Rosenthal '54 HONORARY PRESIDE-NT Leonard H. Skoglund '38 
PRESIDENT 
Edw-anl G. Cantivcll '24 
VICE-PRESIDENT 
Edu-ard B. Fitzpatrick Jr '54 
VICE-PRESIDENT 
John J. Rcidy '27 
VICE-PRESIDENT 
James D. Cooney '59 ExEcuTnx SECRETARY 
DIRECTORS TO 1970 
Edu-ard G. Cantwcll '24 (PuBUC REUTIONS AND DEVELOPMENT) 700 Binns Blvd., Columbus, Ohio 43204 
Edirard B. Fitzpatrick Jr '54 (STUDE.NT .AF­FAIRS) 5 The Maples, Roslyn Estates, NY 11576 
John J. Reidy '27 (ACADEMIC .AFFAIRS) 11850 Edgeu-atcr Dr., Lakeivood, Ohio 44107 
Leanaid H. Skoglund '38 (ATHLETIC, SE-VATE RELATIONS) 426 Dover -Ave., LaGrange Park, m. 60525 
DIRECTORS TO 1971 
W. Jerome Kane '38, P.O. Box 3707, Seattle, Wash. 98124 Walter M. Langfotd '30, 1315 Otsego St., Soutli Bend, Ind. 46517 Donald F. O'Brien '42, 1113 RO^ T River Rd., Houston, Texas 77002 
Francis J. Wilson '28, 6105 Howe St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219 
DIRECTORS TO 1972 
Robert A. Eitins '47, Box 546, Buhl, Id. John T. Massman '56, 3917 Broadway, Kansas City, Mo. Frank L. McGinn '52, 900 Building, Pompano Beach, Fla. Robert L. McGoldrick '56, 15 Drury Lane, West Hartford, Conn. Leonard H. Tosc '37, 64 W. 4th St., Bridge­port, Pa. 
1968 Notre Dame ALUM.NUS, University of Notre Dame, all rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permis­sion is prohibited. 
The Notre Dame ALUMNUS is published eight times a year by the University of Notre Dame. Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
George Shuster on the ALUMNVS wavelength for the first time. 

Ever Want Ymur Owm Hoiline? 
JHow many times while listening to the six o'clock news or reading the evening's paper have you come across news of the University that's taken you completely by surprise? Moreover, how many times has that story, often times controversial, made you sigh and wonder aloud, "What's going on out at that place now?" 
For example, do you remember a year ago Christmas when you heard the mmor that Notre Dame and St. Mary's College were going to merge? I can. I was in Ohio for a few day's vacation when I read about it in the local newspaper. Having left the campus only days before, unaware so much as a whisper of such a notion, I found myself totally unprepared to handle questions of friends and relatives. As it turned out there was probably more smoke to that episode than there was fire. Nevertheless it demanded an explanation. 
There have been other similar eye openers. The most recent per­haps was the news that Barat College changed its mind about joining Notre Dame's cluster college setup. Again, you probably mumbled to yourself, "How come? Now what?" In this issue of the ALUMNUS we can shed a little more light on the Barat change. Similarly, we want to give you an insight on future issues as soon as they develop. 
Our secret weapon is a new feature beginning this issue called "Hotline", a six column spread neatly tucked into a little box on pages 11 and 12. While not confined to controversial subjects and hopefully not belaboring the obvious, "Hotline" goes to the person closest to the development for his views and interpretations. This time we've hooked up with Dr. Geoi^ge N. Shuster, assistant to Notre Dame's president, who has been involved in the planning of the cluster college concept at the University since its very in­ception. Notre Dame alumni and fiiends, regardless of their familiarity with the proposed Bai-at-Noti^e Dame move; will find this interview with Dr. Shuster most informative. 
MN essence "Hotline" will attempt to give you the "whys and wherefores" of those stories that start your six o'clock mumbles. The rest of the world may continue to search for the remedy to the evei-y day "blah." 
Sincerely, 
Editor 
P.S. We welcome your suggestions for future "Hotline" articles. 
OPMNION 
Alumni Association Looks 


To Second 
M N the September ALUMNUS, Dick 
Kosenthal (in writing about the 
changes occurring in the University 
organization structure) summarized 
Alumni objectives as follows: "In 
tune with the new structures created 
on the Campus, the revised organiza­
tional plan of the Alumni Association 
(an expanded Board and Alumni 
Senate) is geared toward greater 
counsel with the administration, closer 
association with the faculty and a 
deeper understanding of student and 
Alumni thinking." 
As we begin the 101st year of Alumni Association activities, this program is now a reality. This January we welcome five new mem­bers to the Alumni Board, each selected from a geographical region. Board expansion to a full complement of fifteen members, each representing a geographical area, will be completed in the next two years. Regional meet­ings of the Alumni Senate were held throughout the country during De­cember. Attendance was good in all sections of the country and intent and enthusiasm in the program were ex­cellent. 
The Alumni reorganization plan now in effect is off to a good start and will have significant impact on Alumni programs. Increased communication between the Alumni Board and local clubs, as well as between various clubs in an area through the regional representative, should spark greater club activity and provide feedback of Alumni thinking and needs. Closer ties with the University in the area of continuing education are certain to develop. Opportunities foR\levelop­ing Alumni dialogue on important issues to the future of the University will be enhanced. 

lOO Years 
We on the Alumni Boai-d are look­ing fonvard to making the new Alumni stmcture successful and meet­ing the goals and objectives set forth above. With your continued help and cooperation, we can start our second hundred years with assurance of having our Alumni Association keep pace with the entire University com­munity in Notre Dame's progress as a Great University. 
teonard Skogtund '38, President Notre Dame Alumni Association 
Seif Defense Is The Key 
mf IFTEEN regional meetings of the Alumni Senate, from Jacksonville to Los Angeles, and Boston to San Fran­cisco, focused Alumni concern on the nature of authority and discipline at Notre Dame today. Sevei-al students joined the trek, telling it "like it is" at meetings in Chicago, Lansing, Cleveland and Milwaukee. Alumni concern with student regimen as articulated by the Senators is based not so much on the fact that the militai-y academy style discipline cherished at ND in earlier years has gone by the boards, but on speculation as to what (if anything) has taken its place. The efficacy of curfews, morning checks and lights-out may strike a nostalgic chord or two, but few Senators would lobby for their re­instatement. On the contrary, most Senators applaud the new concentra­tion on personal responsibility, within an atmosphere of authority. 
Doubtless ND, in the area of stu­
dent affairs, has gone through transi­tional stages the past thirty years. We've moved from a "family style" (pre WW II) operation, to the post­war corporate context, with the en­rollment explosion, burgeoning pro­grams and cnrricola, expanding fac­ulty and facilities and a proliferation of vice presidents. The genesis has ap­parently found its denouement in the "community style" concept of 1969 Kotre Dame. 
The Board of Trustees, in its State­ment of Policy on Student Life issued last May, expressed its desire that there be created at this University "an increasingly significant and mean­ingful society at Notre Dame," one in which everyone shall "work to­gether, intelligently and responsibly for the ultimate good of the whole community." The Board added that if such a community is not possible at this University, "then the broader human family would have little hope." This then, appears to be our goal. It's an exciting and challenging one . . . and certainly ought to be within the grasp of a Notre Dame, with its Christian heritage and Catholic commitment. If ci-eated, it could be a significant resolution of a quandary facing all universities to­day. But it's an end which will re­quire the total dedication of all mem­bers of the community, including those of us who live in the suburbs. That total participation and accord may be the rub, however, for to our knowledge few communities have escaped the onslaughts of an iras­cible minority which finds it cannot function within the frameworic estab­lished by consensus. Communities, if they are to survive this internal rav­aging, must create mechanisms where­
by the destructive few can be separ­ated from the whole. Thus, one of the first principles of any healthy community must be the principle of self-defense. 
James D. Cooney '59 
Alumni Secretary 

Maeh Ivy 
THER E is a new cocktail pai-ty game about in the nation, and it's easy to play—^indeed, too easy to play. It's called "Let's Start A Polarized Con­versation." There are many opening gambits, but the most popular cur­rently is this one: "What do you think of what the black students at X University are doing?" 
The black students are doing their thing at the countiy's colleges and universities, and while it would be an injustice to disparage their motiva­tion, one can detect the trace of a sardonic smile as they witness the frequent discomfiture of liberal aca­deme as it comes to grips with the campus wing of the "Black Power" movement. 
There are 67 black students at Notre Dame, or about one percent of the undei:graduate student body. About three out of four of these stu­dents have enrolled at the Univei-sity within the last two years, and vii-tu­ally all receive financial aid of one type or another. Most are non-athletes, and many came to Notre Dame because of the efforts of a stu­dent-directed minority-group recmit­ment program. A survey of blacks last year indicated strong support for the establishment of an Afro-Amer­ican Organization (AAO) on campus. 
and it was formed. 

This year, the group stepped up its activity on campus. Some 59,000 persons who had never heard of the AAO looked on as the group marched with signs around the football field in a Univei-sity-approved demonstra­tion prior to the Georgia Tech game in November. Countless newspaper readers around the country learned of the AAO through wire service stories on the presentation of their grievances to Notre Dame's adminis­tration and their veiled threat to demonsti-ate at the UCLA basketball game Dec. 7 if demands were not met. A committee was quickly formed to work with the AAO, and, convinced of its sincerity, the blacks have adopted a wait-and-see attitude. 
Despite periodic tension within the campus community during the first semester, let the record show that Notre Dame black students have not held administrators captive in their ofHces (Fordham), desti-oyed property 
(Oshkosh and lUinois), prevented classes from meeting (San Fran­cisco State), nor occupied buildings (Brandeis and Northwestern). Com­munications, while strained at times, are open. 
What do the nation's black students want? In terms of specifics, they want things like improved counseling facilities, more scholarships, inten­sified recruiting, organizational quar­ters on campus, and courses in black culture. At some places they have asked for considerations it is increas­ingly evident they are not going to receive, such as segregated living quarters, separate colleges, and quota admissions programs. In some rare instances, they have asked for things it is better they do not get, such as courses in Swahili (under the mis­taken notion that this is an ancestral lang^uage which will aid cultural identity) or racial booterism of the sort which extolls Crispus Attucks as 3 black Revolutionary War martyr when he was in fact according to ND historian James W. Silver, "a street hoodlum" who got killed by mistake during the Boston Massacre. 
In genera], the blacks are lobbying for the kind of treatment colleges and universities have long advanced for the foreign student (tutoring and counseling, a respect for their cul­tures, clubs and advisors, financial aid, "international houses," etc.). It is true, of course, that treatment of foreigm students has fallen short of this ideal, which is why Notre Dame's international contingent is right behind the blacks in petitioning the administration. 
The blacks are, in a very real sense, foreign students; the sociological evidence for the fact that two separate but unequal cultures are growing up in the United States in­creases every day. White society (which includes both South Mil­waukee mechanics and South Bend professors) has isolated the black, given him second- to fifth-rate hous­ing, work opportunities, and school­ing, and then failed to discern the final irony implicit in hiring the most qualified job applicant (who will, chances are, be white) or recruiting the most qualified high school senior 
(ditto). If the nation's colleges and uni­veraties cannot see in the campus 
Black Power movement the possibility for a race pride which will provide the psychological boot to which can someday be attached those straps we whites are fond of referring to, there is little hoi>e for those who live in the non-ivied world. 
There are encouraging indications. Father Hesburgh, who a decade ago wrote a stinging indictment of white racism as a personal addendum to a TJ. S. Civil Rights Commission report, is sensitive to the issues; the Admis­sions OiBce and the Law School have sent black students to recruit their brothers; blacks are among stu­dents meeting periodically with alumni groups; and there are signs that the error made by other institu­tions—^that of enrolling below-stan­dard blacks and then failing to pro­vide the expensive academic and non­academic supportive services—^may be avoided at Notre Dame; above all, the committee appointed to work with the blacks is an excellent one. 
This column has really cheated in the game of "Polarized Conversation" by presenting only one side. The letters-to-editor column is available next issue to those who want to get a word in edgewise. 
Richard W. ConHin MA '59 
Asshlanl Dir. of Public Informalion 
Hevision? 

In keeping with (his mogozine's policy of permilling responsible student opinion to op­peor in these pages, the AlVMNUS invited senior John fficfcey, choirmon of the student committee for University curriculum revision, to evaluate his group'', progress. The nevfs story appears on page (5. 
Last spring Father Hesburgh called 
for an intensive study of the curric­
ulum at Notre Dame. He invited all 
members of the academic community, 
including the students, to participate 
in the discussions that would be tak­
ing place this year. 
In order for the student body to 
effectively participate in this study, 
it was necessary to create a student 
organization, coordinated by the 
Academic Affairs Commission of the 
Student Government, that would 
parallel the present University struc­
ture. This organization would facil­
itate the flow of communications be­
tween the students and the depart­
ments, the colleges and the Academic 
Council. 
Now that the students have that 
organization, how are we going to ap­
proach the faculty and administration 
with our proposals? Father Hesburgh 
stated that no area should be con­
sidered sacrosanct. Even so, what 
can the students do or suggest with 
relatively limited experience in higher 
education? 
We feel that we should base our considei-ations on the actual learning experience. We know what motivates us and what does not motivate us to engage in that experience. We fed the pressures of today's society, the nebulous future that lies before us, and the pressures placed upon us by the university experience. All these pressures have a profound effect upon the education of a young man. Whether he is able to "produce" or not during his matriculation may very well be a result of the way in which he reacts to these pressures. As stu­dents we are not prepared to decide upon the content of the curriculum. 
but we are prepared to judge its 
efiSciency in helping ns to assimilate 
the values we need to meet the chal­
lenges of these pressures. 
The services of profesaonal re­searchers from the Social Science Training Laboratory at the Univer­sity have been enlisted to assist us in formulating a first-rate questionnaire. It wiU give the students an oppor­tunity to express their views on the present status of the corriculmn. From the results of our research we hope to spot indieaticms of what will have to be improved or changed. The results will be considered in the final deliberations this spring for the changes in the curricnlum that will be initiated next fall. 

Hopefully the results of the present study will initiate a continuing process of evaluation. The first step in this direction could be taken if the Uni­versity Committee on Curricnlum Re­vision would become a permanent entity whose sole purpose would be to reevaluate annually the adequacy of the present curriculum. The work of this committee along with the newly created Student Life Council will squarely entrench the students in the decision making process of this Uni­versity. Unless this is so there can. be no true community of learning, nor can student opinion be assured its rightful place or an attentive audi­ence. Only through a concerted and dynamic effort of all those concerned can the goal of a greater educational system at Notre Dame be realized. 
John P. Hickey, It. 
Stnior—Arts 8 Leilen 
Academk Main Commissioner, 
Student Government 

Ctaiiis UXiVEHSITY 
The ND Law Community zcclcomes Justice Brennan (top). Dean Emeritus O'Meara and Professor Emeritus U'illiaii 




ND Law School 
ASSOCIATE Justice William J. Bren­nan of the U.S. Supreme Court will highlight the list of distinguished speakers and guests invited to the Camjius to help celebrate the centen­ary of the Notre Dame Law School, 
the oiliest Catholic law scliool in the country. Feb. 7-8 are the scheduled dates for the centennial syni])osium, and session topics will be the "Moral Basis of Human Rights," the "Jloi-al Basis of Violence" and the "Moral Basis of Legal Education." 
The speaker for the first session will be Harris WofFord Jr., pres.. New College at Old Westbury, NY. The reaction will be given by Harry Kalven, of the U. of Chicago Law School and Dr. George N. Shuster of ND. Mayor Joseph Alioto of San Francisco will deliver the second ad­dress and be answered by ND the­ologian Rev. James Burtchaell CSC and Paul Hoffman, Neiv York Post political reporter. The final session will feature Prof. Robert S. Pasley of the Cornell Law School. The re­actions will be delivered by Louis F. Bartelt, Valparaiso U. Law Dean and Clarence C. Ferguson, Dean of the Howard U. Law School. 
Other speakers will include Lt. Gov. Raymond Broderick of Pennsylvania, an ND law grad, who will address the reunion dinner, and Prof. George Keeton, who will discuss ND's junior­

iollison. Dean William B. Lawless, host of the 

Celebrates 
year program of legal study at the U. of London where he is dean of the law faculty. 
An important part of the celebra­tion will be the traditional Red JIass for lawyers and judges. Other events scheduled are a Law School open house and a centennial banquet at which Dean Lawless and Father Hes-burgh will speak. 
Invited to the observance have been members of the ND Law Association, 
centennial celebration, looks forward to good years ahead. 

Centenary 
the deans of more than 130 American law schools. University trustees and Law Advisory Council members. South Bend area attorneys and judges and ND faculty members and law stu­dents. These guests will witness the conferring of honorary degrees upon Joseph O'Meai-a, dean emeritus of the ND law school; William D. RoUison, prof, emeritus of the ND law school, now of Samford U., Birmingham, Ala.; and Lord Alfred Thompson 
Denning, Master of the Rolls, Eoyal Courts of Justice, The Stx-and, Lon­don. Prof. Keeton will accept the de­gree for Lord Denning. 
The Law School is also using its 100th anniversary as the occasion to offer alumni the opportunity to re­place their LL.B. degree with the J.D. which, according to Dean Lawless, is now endorsed by the American Bar Association and has certain advan­tages over the older degree. 
FT. McCluskey wUl bring a dynamic approach to his new post. 
Edueator Deluxe 
M. HE various education pi-ograms of the University of Noti-e Dame will be coordinated in the new Institute for Studies in Education planned for full opei-ation next fall. This total insti­tutional conmiitment to education, described by Father Hesburgh, as an effective and exciting progi'am, will be headed by the Kev. Neil G. Mc­Cluskey SJ as dean-director. 

Inter-institutional cooperation with St. Mary's College will be involved in the meshing of three aspects of the Notre Dame educational enterprise— the systematic study of the process of education, the performance of sei-vice functions to school systems, and the professional preparation of teachers. Father Hesburgh cited the obligation of the University to assist the many parochial school systems requesting help in reorganization and the training of personnel to carry out the new programs. 
Fr. McCluskey, former academic vice president of Gonzaga University, holds a Ph.D. in education from Columbia University and foi-merly sei-ved on the staffs of Seattle Uni­versity, Columbia Teachers College, Union Theological Seminary, and the Oppenheimer Institute in Lusaka, Zambia. The Jesuit educator has been a visiting professor at Notre Dame since 1966 and formerly served as education editor of Avierica magazine. 
Eight components of the new insti­tute will include: Supervision and encouragement of new programs and experiments by the Dean-Director; Department of Graduate Studies in Education; Office of Teacher Prepara­tion; Undergi-aduate Programs in Teacher Education; an Office for Ed­ucation Research; a Counseling Cen­ter; a University Committee on Teacher Education, and the Council on Education, which vrill be an outside advisory group, composed of nation­ally prominent persons in education. 
Fr. McCluskey and the Eev. John 
E. Walsh, C.S.C, Notie Dame's vice president for academic affairs, headed a six-man committee planning the new institute. Preliminary approval for the new institute has been given by the Academic Council of the Univer­sity. 

ND Cnrrienliun Under Stud j 
I f OB the first time in Notre Dame his­
tory, students will be involved in a 
major curriculum reform at the Uni­
versity. Headed by student govern­
ment academic affairs cooi'dinator, 
John P. Hickey, Jr., a senior from 
Boston, an intricate network of stu­
dent, college and depai-tmental com­
mittees has been working with the 
faculty to suggest needed changes and 
improvements in the present cur­
riculum. 
Notre Dame's first major curricu­lum study in more than a decade was announced last spring by Eev. The­odore M. Hesburgh, CSC, through a memorandum to the faculty in which he invited students to partici­pate in the study. Hickey took the initiative to approach the administra­tion and work out details for student involvement in the study. He stayed at Notre Dame throughout the sum­mer, doing research for the Office of Academic Affairs and preparing for student participation in the study. 
Throughout the fall term, student groups worked in tandem with faculty groups on the departmental and col­lege levels, while Hickey's Student Academic Council worked out details with the Notre Dame Social Science Training laboratory, which pi-epared a detailed questionnaire that will soon be administered to a representative selection of undergraduate students. 
Within the next two months a spe­cial executive committee composed of five administrators, five students and five faculty members will assimilate all the reports and studies which have been submitted by the student and faculty groups, as well as by the Aca­demic Affairs office, and will issue a complete report to the Academic Council of the University for definite action. 

The results of the study will include both immediate and long-range plans for the future of the Notre Dame curricula. Some effects will be felt as soon as the fall term of 1969 and others will not surface for perhaps several years. Students feel that the important thing about the study is that the administx:ation chose to in­volve students in a continuing cur­riculum study and that it was sensi­tive to student insight and thought in an area which hitherto had been con­sidered sacrosanct. 
New Board members include Erkins, McGoldrkk (top), Tose, McGinn and Massman (bottom). 

Atumni Features 

H ERE are the results of the 1969 balloting for the new members of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association. Under procedures ac­tivated this year, five directors were elected, representing five distinct geographical regions. Since many ballots were logjammed in the Christ­mas mail, the voting deadline was extended from Jan. 1 to Jan. 10. The newly elected directors will join the current Board at the Winter meeting on Campus Jan. 23-25. 
While ten highly qualified candi­dates ran the following were suc­cessful. Fx'om Region Two (Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, North and South Dakota, Nebraska, Utah, Coloi-ado, and the Kansas area excluding Kansas City) the victor is ROBERT 
A. BRKINS '47 whose home is in 

Board of Directors Five Neweowners 
Buhl, Idaho. Bob shares that home with the members of his "business family"—^the fish of the Snake River Trout Co. 
Region Five (Iowa and Missouri) has JOHN T. MASSMAN '5G as its representative. John's home address is 3917 Broadway, Kansas City, Mo. The city is also the site of the Mass-man Constmction Co. for which John sei'ves as vice-president. 
Region Eleven (Maine, New Hamp­shire, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Vennont and Connecticut) will send ROBERT L. McGOLDRICK '56. Bob, a senior account executive with Con­necticut General Life Insurance, is sending ND in an additional way as SUMMA General Chairman for Con­necticut. 
Region Twelve (Pennsylvania, Mai-yland, D.C., West Virginia, Dela­ware) voted in LEONARD H. TOSE '37. President of one of the largest trucking fii-ms in the East, Tose, Inc., he is well qualified to get things moving. 
Region Fifteen (Noi-th and South Carolina, Georgia, Florida) sends FRANK L. McGINN '52. President of McGinn Bros. Realty Inc. Frank has been successful in other public balloting, having been named the "Realtor of the Year" in 1964. 
Alumni Secretary Jim Cooney is optimistic about the results of the election principally because of the di­verse backgrounds and experience of those elected. Representing three dif­ferent decades of grads these men should bring to the Alumni Associa­tion a rich variety of new ideas. 
Theology Chair 
WoTRE DAME'S new Institute for Ad­vanced Religious Studies is one step closer to its goal of 24 fellows. The Dorothy H. and Lewis Rosenstiel Foundation of New York City has awarded a $350,000 gj-ant to under­wi-ite a new fellowship in Jewish theology at ND. The fellowship is equivalent to a professorship on the teaching faculty and is the first en­dowed chair in Jewish theology at the University. 
"In establishing a Jewish theology fellowship at the Institute, the Rosen­stiel Foundation is helping pioneer a scholarly and ecumenical enterprise which is unique," said Father Hes-burgh when he announced the award. He explained that the Institute even­tually will have 24 fellows, represent­ing all the principal religious faiths of contemporary man, "who will con­cern themselves witli a wide range of problems in which i-eligion plays or can play a major role." 
Father Hesburgh observed, the Rosenstiel Foundation gi-ant assures, that "an outstanding Jewish theolo­gian will always be among the schol­ars engaged in dialogue, \vTiting and research at the Institute. For this splendid grant and all that it will make possible, Noti'e Dame is deeply grateful." 
This grant is part of the $3,150,000 that the University is seeking for the Institute in its nationwide SUMMA Program. Prof. James Kritzeck, an authority on Oriental religions and the director of the Institute, said that architectural planning is well under way for Institute facilities to be con­structed on the shore of one of ND's twin lakes. A distinguished advisory committee is also assisting the Uni­versity in planning the Institute's program and selecting scholars who will seiTG as fellows. 
Father Hesburgh, in committing the full resources of the University to the new institute, cited the almost infinite opportunities for Notre Dame to be­come, "as it knows it must, a cross­roads of opinion and a bridge between banks of understandable conflict and unrealized brotherhood." 

Senatoi-Eugene J. McCarthy evihodies the qualities specified by ihei 



iSeniors Aye 
!^EN.\TOR Eugene McCarthy is a politician whose roots have long been tied to the collegiate life. Before en­tering politics, he was a professor at St. Thomas College in Minnesota. To most college students he is the symbol of the idealist turned politician. Last May the Indiana primary brought Sen. McCarthy to Indiana and to Notre Dame. Both he and Robei-t Kennedy made Campus appearances and their idealism poured over into large-scale student involvement in the electoral process for the first time in American histoiy. Since last May the bullet of an assassin and the Chicago convention have kept Kennedy and McCarthy fx-om the goal they sought. Still a senator, J\IcCarthy acts as a voice for those seeking a shift m American political values. 
It was undoubtedly some of these qualifications that prompted the Senior Class to announce this month that Eugene McCarthy will come to Notre Dame in early j\Iarch as the Senior Class Fellow. Nominated last spring by a five to one margin over other nominees, McCarthy recently accepted an invitation from the Senior Class to spend three days on Campus engaged in infonnal discussions with members of the Senior Class. His progi-am for the first two days will emphasize contact with small groups of seniors through classroom dis­cussions and specially organized seminars. His schedule will be low key for these two days, but his visit 

1 I newly created Senior Fellow Aiuard. 

Ideal 
will climax with a major address to the entire student body of Notre Dame and the public. 
With the commitment from such a national figure as McCarthy, Chuck Slieedy, chainnan of the program, envisions a long future for the Senior Class Fellow Award. In its first year as a revision of the Patriot of the Year Award, Sheedy expects the ad­ministration to assist the Senior Class in financing the program. "Ultimately we hope to have the progi-am en­dowed," says Sheedy, "in order to in­sure the continuity of the program from year to year." But, for its first year the Senior Class has secured the man they needed—a man whose life and ideals have always been close to 
't^^:rvr^^i'i^,^zjjijrt^i^^ji!?Y^ii^ii*fi^^ 

Bugs in Space, Too? 
MEING launched into space in a capsule sounds exciting but if you or one of your fellow astronauts have too much staphylococcus or salmonel­la the trip could prove dangerous. These skin and intestinal tract bac­teria are usually kept under control by regular washing and exposure to the open air. In the confinement of a space capsule, however, their growth goes uncontrolled and may eventually cause illness in the astronauts. 
"This is what occurred during the Apollo 8 mission. Frank Borman came down with a respiratory infection and pretty soon all of them had it," ob­served Dr. Morris Wagner, associate professor of microbiology in Notre Dame's Lobund Laboi-atory. "This transmission of a pathogenic orga­nism from one person to another is a very easy process," continued Dr. Wagner, "the bacteria have nowhere else to go." 
Aided by a §50,000 National Aero­nautics and Space Administration grant, Wagner hopes to isolate the type of bacteria that build up in a confined area like a spacecraft. With this knowledge he will then explore what can be done to alleviate the threat of infectious disease to the astronauts. 
Wagner has already taken steps in this exploi-ation. "First," he explains, "a harmless bacteria, streptococcus, for example, and a pathogenic one, such as salmonella are placed in a germ-free isolator. The hai-mless bac­teria overrun and eliminate the infec­tious variety from the environment." 
A second step is to see if these same results occur in animal experimenta­tion. Wagner has attempted to infect groups of germ-free mice with these two bacteria and then placed them in a closed environment. He has also used normal animals from the ordi­nary environment, placed them in genn-free isolation and then noted what happens to the gei-ms brought into the closed system. 
This final step of the exploration is the most closely related to the actual problem of the space capsule. "Hope­fully, the results with animals can be translated to man's experience," said AVagnei-. 
As soon as conclusive results are found Dr. Wagner hopes to conquer the capsule problem, possibly, by feeding the astronauts antibiotics. "We will attempt to eliminate some of the resident bacterial population and supplant it with bacteria that are desirable for the elimination of in­fectious germs." 
If Prof. Wagner's experiments are successful NASA will be able to send men on the longer nine-month journey to Mars. And no telling how long a weekend the future astronauts will be able to spend at their lunar space stations. 
campus life. 
Dr. Louis Wagner experiments zvith germfree isolation. 
FTS. McKenzie (top), Burtchaell and O'Brien speak out. 

ND Theologians Opine 
FREEDOM in The Church — intel­
lectual, moral and spiritual — has 
drawn the support of three members 
of the ND theology department in 
recent statements. 
Department Chairman Rev. James 

T. Burtchaell, CSC, '56, and Scripture scholar Rev. John McKenzie, SJ., are among the signers of a statement reinforcing "the freedom of theolo­gians and theology in the service of the Church." 
Sponsored by Concilium, an inter­national review of theology, the state­ment said, in part: "We are fully aware that we can err in our theol­ogy. We are convinced, however, that erroneous theological conceptions can­not be rooted out by force. In our world they can only be put right and corrected by free and unimpeded ob­jective argument and debate among scholars, in which the truth can gain the victory through and by itself." 
The theologians said they expected to be able to fulfill their duty ("seek the truth and speak the truth")— "without being hampered by admin­istrative measures and sanctions." 
They also set up guidelines for the Roman Curia to follow when objecting to the statements of any theologian. 
Other signers of the statement in­cluded The Revs. Yves Congar, OP, Hans £iing, Karl Rahner, SJ, and Edward Schillebeeckx, OP. 
The January issue of the Reader's Digest provides a forum for the ideas of The Rev. John A. O'Brien on Birth Control and the Catholic conscience. Criticizing Pope Paul's anticontra­ception Humarme Vitae, the research professor of theology wrote, "Since the decision is bound to be reversed by his successor, it would be far more honorable, proper and just for the Pope to rescind it himself." 
Father O'Brien said "a clear, un­ambiguous pronouncement from him, approving all physically harmless birth-control methods, excluding ster­ilization and abortion, would offer in­valuable assistance to governments striving mightily to cope with their multiplying problem." 
He attributed much of what he termed the "storm of protest aroused by this unfortunate papal document" to a door-opening statement by Mon­signor Ferdinando Lambruschini, who issued the text of the encyclical to the press. Father O'Brien quoted him as saying: "The rule against ai-tificial birth control is not unrefoimable. It is up to theologians to debate and expand aU moral aspects involved, and if, for instance, some principle should become overwhelmingly ac­cepted in the Church, contraception may even be launched." 
HOTLINE 



Whmt^s 
EFFORTS by Notre Dame adminis­trators to eliminate ND's all-male environment have been stalled by the decision of Barat College officials to keep their school where it is—in Lake 
Forest, JIL 
Barat had been included in ND's 
plan for a cluster college arrange­
ment, which would have necessitated 
Barat's move from Lake Forest to 
South Bend. 
The problem arose when Barat 
found itself unable to find a buyer 
for its campus at the right price. 
Barat President Sister Margaret 
Burke said that she and other Barat 
administrators were "discussing tvith 
the University of Notre Dame a plan 
that would provide a residence for 
Barat students who desire to pursue 
specialized studies or independent 
projects in a University setting." 
Father Hesburgh described the tuiture of the above discussions as still in "the preliminary stages," but ex­pressed optimism either for tliat plan or one involving tlie institution of an experimental women's college on the ND campus. 
The latest Barat proposal calls for dbout SO girls to attend ND in September. 
Fatlier Hesburgh said he would prefer a larger number of girls— "of least 100"—to begin an experi­mental program. He said lie would he particularly interested in an out­side group of educators setting up an experimental women's college. 
He attributed tlie University's hesitation to becoming a coeducational institution to ND's lack of experience in educating women. "To say that educating women is completely dif­ferent from educating men is cer­tainly not true," said Father Hes­burgh, "but to say the two educa­tions are completely the same is not right either." 
The most that is expected to de­velop by this September is the "fe­males in residence" proposal and that depends on the availability of dorm space. 
While dates are still up in the air, there is little doubt that ND will con­tinue to lose its all-male cliara^ter at a quicker rate. "Tliere's no question about it" said Father Hesburgh, "it (women on campus) is coming and it's good that it is." 


Happened To Barat? 
How did cluster college concept come about at ND and what is rationale be­hind it? 
SHUSTER: The beginning came with Fr. Hesburgh's desire to create a closer relationship with St. Mai-y's College. That, of course, was dictated by certain obvious reasons and other ones not so clear. The most obvious one is that we have a lot of boys penned up here on the Campus and feminine companionship seems to be something decreed by the Lord and instilled into the process of nature. We were also considering very care­fully the whole Notre Dame com­munity which does include St. Mary's, and we thought that if there was any­thing we could contribute to make this a college that is moving forward we should be glad to do so. We dis­cussed the question with quite a number of people at St. Mary's in­cluding Fr. Sheedy. Then I wrote a memorandum at Fr. Hesburgh's re­quest outlining various cluster college ideas and making some specific sug­gestions for the consideration of the two institutions. One factor in the Catholic university situation became clear. We just can't afford to du­plicate expensive offerings or even to provide expensive sei-vices, unless we try to share the cost. One such ex­ample is the new school of theology. St. Mary's had the beginning of such a school but ours was much more ambitious and so the question was 
asked "To what extent can we tailor this school to meet the legitimate de­mands of girls who are primarily interested in preparing to teach the­ology at colleges both secular and private or denominational?" 
What are advantages to ND or are advantages mostly for small schools who ivould come in? 
SHUSTER: I suppose it is cori-ect to say that small schools would probably get more out of this than the Uni­versity will. Yet, I would say there are some very marked benefits that will accrue to the University. I think the prevailing maxim is one that was foimulated long ago and which is "boys and girls play together, eat together, enjoy social life together, why shouldn't they study together?" And there is interplay between men and women in an academic situation which is good. It doesn't seem to make any difference whether a girl is in a chem lab or not. In courses in literature or psychology or political science a different point of view can be brought to bear on the discussion. Also we do profit in some special ways at ND, most impoi-tant being that we offer no undergraduate work in edu­cation whei-e St. Mary's does. It gives those ND men who think about enter­ing education an opportunity they wouldn't otherwise have. Quite a number are taking advantage of this. Then we have the obvious phe­nomenon of the theati-e in which one 
Dr. Shuster lauds cluster college benefits. 
can no longer conceive of having boys cast in feminine roles. So there are areas in which we have directly profited. St. Mary's has some other good things such as its work in the modem langrnages which we don't have here. Academically speaking, the exchange rate is about 2/3 in favor of ND and 1/3 in favor of St. Mary's. 
Since Barat has scratched the idea of moving what are cluster prospects in the future, excluding St. Mary's? 
SHUSTER: I think the prospects are probably pretty good. The Barat thing didn't come about primarily for financial reasons. Bai-at had an offer to sell their campus at a fairly rea­sonable figure but, as always, you can only cash a check when yon have it in your hand. It was a very great disappointment to Barat and I think it was a great disappointment to ns. But there are other solutions. One is to do what Vassar has done and that is to set up a unit, as part of ND, on an experimental basis and bring in 100 girls whereupon 100 boys would go off to places like Manhat­tanville. 
Are there any other schools con­sidering or being considered for a move? 
SHUSTER: I don't think so at the moment. I can think of several who would just love to consider it. 
Do yoii want to mention these? 
SHUSTER: I'm afraid not. The con­versations have been so confidential. On the other hand, this Vassar idea, in a modified form, might be very practicable, that is, a group of stu­dents from a college for women would spend a year at ND, rounding out the courses they have had, working par­ticularly in the natural sciences which they can't give and which we can. I'm pretty sure that one can safely make a prediction that this sort of thing is going to be considered. 
Are efforts being made to cultivate this type of move or is it still in the discussion stage? 
SHUSTER: It is still in the discus­sion stage. A great deal depends upon how the school of theology develops. That may be a mecca. Yon know how attractive the Chicago Divinity School is and I think we might dmm up a good deal of trade in this direction. On the other hand I don't think any­thing like the Claremont cluster is 
iy. i 

conceivable. Because the Claremont idea is really a grouping of autono­mous institutions more or less of the same size and at the same rate of development. 
Will cluster colleges become more popular or has the trend reached its crescendo? 
SHUSTER: I think we have only begun to see the actual implications of this. Everything is so expensive that financing private education in the futui-e is going to be increasingly difficult. Take, for example, a small school in Chicago I think very highly of, Francis Xavier. It is in a very bad location now and has financial problems. Academically speaking it is veiy good. For a college like that it would be a godsend if they could get out and come down here but who would pay the bill is a major problem. 
Do you see the real advantage to private education as a financial one? 
SHUSTER: I see the real advantage as being able to share. It's not so much an advantage in tenns of dol­lars and cents but in tenns of what dollars and cents can buy. If j'ou take the field of mathematics it is almost impossible to employ people of first-rate stature in that field because the demand is so great. So it stands to reason that ND plus St. Mai-y's can do a better job than if St. Mai-y's went off on its O\\'TI. In the area of the aits ND plus St. jMary's can support concerts and things like that much better than St. Mary's alone or even ND alone. 
Much resentment among alumni and friends? 
SHUSTER : Almost everyone I know is heartily in favor of it. 
Does ND really need the cluster college? 
SHUSTER: I think we really need to have women students around. A girl brings to such subjects as government 
Most ND Alumni favor ike move. 
BSi 

and sociology a totally different di­mension of experience and aspiration and I think we ought to listen to them. I have taught in all three situations, all men, all women, and coed, and each one has its advantages. There is no point in disguising the fact that a case can be made for any one of them. But weighing everything I am inclined to say that the coed en­vironment for American society is the best. 
When viight this cluster college happen at ND? 
SHUSTER: I would have to answer your question by saying that I haven't discussed this with Fr. Hes-burgh or Fr. Walsh but to me it seems that the group idea would probably be more practical in the immediate future than the actual college estab­lishment idea. A group of girls from X college here for a year is so prac­tical that I can't understand why it can't be done next week provided you could establish the right kind of residence hall. 
Do you think there will be any elaborate cooperatioii betiueen Indiana and ND? 
SHUSTER: Our situation is going to be profoundly modified by the growth of Indiana U and I question whether in the long run it is going to be more profitable for our students to go to St. Mary's than to Indiana for certain courses. My projection is that lU will have 20,000 students by the end of the next decade if things go as they are now. That would mean a whale of a change in our whole academic environment. As long as we remain about half the size of Indiana there is no point in being worried about it but as soon as you drop significantly below that it's a problem. Of course, we'll never have too many girls from outside the state coming there. I think we should cordially welcome the entry of Indiana into the South Bend area because it is a good thing for us. I draw some lessons from it, some projections of what our position is going to be because it is all right to say that we are a national institu­tion but that isn't going to be enough of an answer. I think one of our big jobs is going to be to stay ahead of the procession. That is why I'd like to boost the population of ND a little so as to give us that kind of visibility 
which widespread numbers and inter­est naturally give. And I think St. Mary's can be a very good college, no liidden fears about that. I think they are already. We look upon this as a total ND conmiunity. They have autonomy and we have autonomy, still we form one conmiunity. 
* 

Pucksters 
^ OTRE DAJIE'S hockey team opened its initial varsity season Nov. 22 by whipping Ohio University 8-7. The Irish have also beaten the Air Foi'ce twice, triumphed over Gustavus Adol­phus and Illinois, and tied Ohio U. and St. Mary's of Minnesota. 
The Irish icers were welcomed to their new home in the Athletic & Con­vocation Center Jan. 9 and easily turned back Ohio U. by an 8-5 tally. John Womack, a freshman winger netted three goals for the Irish while Phil AVittliff and Paul O'Niell each scored twice. Goalie Dick Tomasoni made 28 saves in the contest that had 
Si 
only 600 spectators. 
Word must have ti'aveled fast around the Campus for the game the m next night against the same Ohio team. Almost 1200 fans witnessed a 
closely contested game that ended in a tie after a sudden death overtime period failed to produce a winner. Phil Wittliff's goal marked the only 

Notre Dame's new sports attraction is a fast game of hockey. 
Coot Opponents 
Irish score and Dick Tomasoni's net-minding highlighted the Irish defense that held Ohio to a single goal. 
News of the previous night's thrill­ing contest brought out 1600 fans for the match with Detroit. The Irish dominated in a brutal game that ended in a 12-3 ND win and saw thi'ee Detroit players banished from the game and a total of 73 minutes in penalty time assessed to the Titans. Highlighting this contest was the fancy stickwork of the freshman front line, center Kevin Hoene, and wingers Joe Bonk and John Woniack. Hoene accounted for four of the Irish goals. 

p With a current record of 7-2-3 the Irish have 18 games left to play and will face some of the rougher teams from the- north country in second semester action. Two tough Minnesota teams, St. John's and St. Mai-y's, and a rugged team from the University of Wisconsin are on the 
m\ 
schedule for late January and Feb­
ruary. 

Coach Lefty Smith is pleased with the team effort. "They are working as hard as possible and ai'e doing as well as can be expected of such a young group." The team is short defensively and Smith is trying to remedy this situation vnth the addi­tion of footballer Eric Norri. The steady play of Jim Morin and Mark Longar is also strengthening the de­fensive forces. Goalie Dick Tomasoni is doing an outstanding job in the Irish nets and Hoene, Bonk, Womack, and WitlifF are doing an equally dazzling job on the opponent's nets. 
The team is young (12 fresh­man, seven sophomores, and three seniors) and has a lot of talent to develop. "We hope in four years that we'll have a good enough team so we'll be able to play against the tops in the country and do well," says Coach Smith. 
BRIEFS 
New Coaeh 
Geoi-ge Kelly '53 has been selected by Ara Parseghian to replace John Kay. He has spent eight years as defensive line coach at the U. of Nebraska. In '50 and '51 Kelly played for Notre Dame but the last two years of his college life were spent on the sidelines due to an injury. 

Arts Festivat 
The Chicago Symphony will perfonn its first concert in South Bend in two decades, Feb. 7. This will lead off the ND-St. Mai-y's Contempo­rai-y Arts Festival scheduled for April. The concert will feature music by 20th-century composers and will mark the serious music debut of the Athletic-Convocation Center. 


SV3MMA 
SUMMA's foui-th phase. Flight IV begins Feb. 3, and will swing thru 13 cities in 11 states. The two teams of speakers, Kev. Charles E. Sheedy CSC and Dr. Thomas E. Stewai-t, and Rev. John E. Walsh CSC and James 
E. AiTnsti-ong will each be accom­panied by a student. This Flight IV will bring the total of SUMMA cities visited to 51, states to 26 and the District of Columbia. 
E,eahy Fete 
Jan. 31, 1954, Father Hesbui-gh an­nounced the resignation of Frank Leahy. Jan. 31, 1969, fifteen years later, a dinner honoring the "Coach" was held at Notre Dame's new Ath­letic Center. Leahy retired for "rea­sons of health" and he faces again a similar battle against leukemia. The 1,000 men gathered to honor him were brought together by Notre Dame Alumni Clubs from South Bnd, Mich­igan City and Chicago. 


Grievance 
The international Student Union at ND has submitted a grievance and recommendation report to the Univer­sity administi-ation. Students from the Panamerican Club, the Chinese As­sociation and the India Association have petitioned the Univei-sity for help in the areas of housing, recruit­ment and scholarship availability and have asked for a full-time foreign student advisor. 
CLASSES 
John P. Scars '60 
RMN 

A T least two ND men have been tapped by Pi'esident Richard M. Nixon to fill top positions on his per­sonal advisoi-y staff. Richard V. Allen '57 has been appointed as principal associate to Dr. Kissinger, the pres­ident's assistant for national security affairs, and will work with the Na­tional Security Council. John P. Sears '60 has been named as deputy counsel to the new chief executive. 
Allen, a specialist in East-West re­lations and national security policy, served as director of foreign policy research for Mr. Nixon's campaign and dealt with the coordination and formulation of foreign policy and na­





Taps ND 
tional security papers and statements. Allen joined the Nixon campaign after leaving his position as senior staff member at the Hoover Institu­tion on AVar, Revolution and Peace at Stanford University. 
Seal's sei-ved as principal liaison between the Nixon and Agnew campaigns during the 19G8 election, and as deputy director of field oper­ations prior to Mr. Nixon's nomina­tion. Before joining the Nixon for President Committee in 19G7, he was associated with Mr. Nixon's New York law firm. 
At least two other ND men were 
Richard V. Allen '57 

Source 
instrumental in the successful Repub­lican drive to the White House. Eay Eaedy '62 was a member of the Re­publican National Committee and spent the campaign doing advance work for the Nixon and Agnew en-toui-ages. He worked with local and state governments preparing the way for RMN and STA. 
Bill Prendergast '37 was director of research for the Republican Na­tional Committee before becoming a speech writer for Mr. Agnew. He was also a consultant to the National Committee's platfomi committee and had a major hand in fonnulating the Republican platform. 
•17 POET LAUREATE OF ND7 
CLASS NOTES 
AHENTION SEVENTEENERS 

D.C. Cutis 
'IS RUN — RUN TO VICTORY 
Here is a chance to brag a little. A news item from Col. JOSEPH J. HEALY '15 What is your best bowling score? reports the victory of one of the members of Single gome or series, indoor or bowling on 

Hint Again 
the 50-year club in the Nov. election. The the green, if you have migrated to Florida or 
WoTRE DAME law professor G. Rob­ert Blakey '57, a former member of the Justice Depax-tment's anti-rackets section, will tune back in on the nerves of government when he takes a Senate subcommittee post in Wash­ington after the Nixon administration assumes power. 
Blakey will be chief counsel for the subcommittee on criminal laws and procedure under the watchful eye of the Senate Judiciary Committee, chaired by Senator John L. McClellan of Arkansas. He will be on an in­definite leave of absence from the ND Law School where he has taught since June, 1964. 
The subcommittee with which he will be affiliated will implement the Nixon administration's crime program and is expected to receive and act upon the Brown Commission report on reform of the federal penal law system. 
The young barrister, who earned his LL.B. from ND in 1960 was a special attorney in the Justice De­partment's organized crime and racketeering section, working with the FBI, the Internal Revenue Service and other federal agencies before joining the ND law faculty. The President's Commission for Law En­forcement and Administration of Justice engaged him as a special con­sultant on organized crime in 1966-67. 
Blakey has also been a consultant to the President's Commission on Riots and Civil Disturbances. He has made several appearances before con­gressional committees and has pub­lished widely in the field of criminal law. 
G. Robert Blakey '57 

Sacramento Bee stated that "County Supervisor 
JAMES M. PHELAN "17 has won a second four-
year term as supervisor from the 3rd district, 
pulling off o strong comebacic from the June 
election when he narrowly won his way into 
the general election runoff. Pheion turned 
bock his opponent Don Burton by 838 votes." 
Thanks to JOHN F. BOYLE '15 Box 67 Cool-
gate Okla. 74538 for o newsy letter. Following 
ore excerpts. "Your birthday cord received ond 
much appreciated even though it reminded me 
that I am getting to on age denied to many of 
our classmates. One died just recently, JIM 
FLANAGAN. He was one of the first I became 
acquainted with on my arrival at ND in 1911. 
He and I roomed at the same place, a private 
home on Michigan St. where Marion intersects. 
While I was in Fresno, Calif, in 1955 I read 
an article in The Saturday Evening Past of his 
accepting a client who was suing the Bank of 
England for o billion dollars. Later I noticed 
in the ALUMNUS he was in London for the 
furtherance of that suit. In the some issue I 
noticed he had died. Do you know if that 
case was settled? If so what was the outcome? 
"My wife died in 1945. 1 have five daughters, all living—two in Fresno, Calif.; one in Tulso, and two in Coalgote, one who never married is living with me. I hove seven grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. The only traveling I do is to Calif, which I do every year or two and to Tulso. I was pleased to get the list of the 50-year club members. By the way, I do attend the ND-OU football games, but missed this year's. They didn't need me." 
A note from EDWARD F. RIELY LLB'15, Minonk, III. 61760 soys "Went to several foot­ball gomes this fall. I do not go ofter Oct. 15 as the weather is so changeable. Stopped at Corby Hall and sow Father DOREMUS—he looks good." 
Members of the class of 1911 particularly please note—"ANINA R. TULLY of Palo Alto, Calif., formerly of LoGronge, 111., beloved wife of the late JOHN C. TULLY, mother of Mary L., Jeanne C , and Marjorie TuUy. Funeral Mass 10 a.m. Monday ot St. Francis Xavier Church, LoGronge." Her husband graduated in 1911 in electrical engineering and in the years that followed he had a most interesting career. He was co-partner in developing one of the first fully assembled radios on the market known as the Bremer-Tully Radio, later he served for a number of years as president of The First National Bonk of LoGronge. During those years he served as head of the St. Vincent DePaul Society; OS pres. of the ND Club of Chicago and OS o member of the Board of Trustees of NDU. Mr. Tully founded the Thomas More Book Shops in Chicago and directed their growth ond development for o number of years before retiring ond moving to Calif. John died in 1957 ond his body was brought back to Lo­Gronge for burial in Mount Carmel Cemetery. The daughters reside ot 2619 Woverly St., Polo Alto. 
Eternal rest give unto John and Mrs. Tully, O Lord, and let perpetual light shine upon them: may they rest in peace. 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
Albert A. Kuhle 717 Sunset Ave. LoGronge, ///. 

•16 "GROVER. GROVER. LOST IN CLOVER" 
Remember—send in those yellow cords. 
Grover Miller 
1208 S. Main Si. Racine, Wis. 53403 

Arizona. 
The great-grandchildren contest is over and you may secure the names of the winners by writing to your Class Secretary and enclosing 100 words of information about yourself. 
Did you know that our illustrious classmate was a poet? Well, read on, my friend, and you shall see his philosophy of life by Carleton D. Beh, with whom we all must agree, I am sure. 
I'M FINE—I'M FINE There's nothing whatever the matter with me I'm just OS hearty as I con be I have arthritis in both of my knees And when I talk, I talk with a wheeze. My pulse is weak and my blood is thin But I'm awfully well for the shape I'm in. 
My teeth eventually oil had to come out And my diet I hove to think about, I'm overweight and I can't get thin But I'm awfully well for the shape I'm in. 
Arch supporters I have for my feet Or I wouldn't be able to walk the street. Sleep is denied me every night And every morning I am a sight. My memory is failing, my head's in a spin. I'm practically living on aspirin But I'm awfully well for the shape I'm in. 
My moral is, os this tale I unfold That for you and me, who are growing old. It's better to soy, I'm fine, with a.grin Than to let you know the shape I'm in. 
Corfelon D. Beh 

So, if someone will set this poem to music we will ask Duke Riley to chant it at our next reunion; we don't sing anymore, you know. 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. Dan £. Hilgartner Post Office Box 75 
Harberl, Michigan 49115 

•18 HIS WILL — 'TIL "70 May the NEW YEAR bring you and yours health and happiness. Be it HIS WILL that all of us will be permitted to greet 1970 and in good health. Sorry to report that Nov. 29, Ruth Call wrote that CHARLIE passed owoy Nov. 27. "He could not lick the uremic poisoning that hod devel­oped before he had his operation. Also I think that three operations in a year were just too much." The Monogram Miler will be missed having run his lost race on this earth. CHARLES G. CORCORAN '17, better known as "HUBBY" writes that he and GEORGE W. SHANAHAN '17 got together at the North­western game. Talked about going back to ND for June '69, 50-year-club reunion. "CHUBBY" writes that he and Mrs. visited GEORGE GIPP Memorial in Laurium, Mich., this year. It is a beautiful monument built of native stone with a flowing fountain located on a well-maintained plot of ground neor the center of the city. Imogine how time flies. "DOC" D. "MIKE" NIGRO '16 writes that he has a grandson graduating from ND in June. Trust that THOM­AS J. O'MEARA from way down south in Del­tona, Flo., "drops" another interesting letter real soon. Another "guy" that's nice to hear from is attorney & counsellor ot low, JOSEPH T. RILEY of Muskegon, Mich. This fellow dislikes losing even one football game. Now as for DR. EDWARD J. REYNOLDS, Molden, Mass., "DOC" was married in the Log Chapel. We fully re­
olize that ND appreciated his generous check although he was unable to join Reunion in 
IS 


Cowigrats 

VtllUAIA W. HUISKING '34 has been elected a director of Oakite Products Inc. He is president of Charles I. Huisking & Co. Inc., and also Glyco Chemicals fnc, a subsidiary. He has been with the company since 1934. 
CD». AiraUK t. CONRAD 35 is the new Commanding Officer of the U.S. Naval Reserve Public Affairs Company 9-2, Cfiicogo. The com­pany which be heads is the best known and most honored in the entire Naval establishment. He is also vice-president for Employee and Public Rela­tions of the Flick Reedy Corporation. 
WIIUAM r. ItYAN '35 has been promoted to vice-president of the AssocJoIes Corporofe Services Company's Real Estate operations. Ryan has been with the company for more than ihirty-lhree years. 
PEffJI J. F1UG£ '39 fios been named a vice-president of the Owens-Illinois, Inc., Forest Prod­ucts Division. Previous to this appointment be held the position of genera/ manager of the division's Pocific Coasf Region. 
Ot. PCTM V. MOULDER '^2 fias been ap­pointed Director of Surgery at the Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. In confuncfion with this appointment be will also become a professor of surgery at the University of Pennsylvania. Prior to this he was a professor of surgery at the Univer­sity of Chicago, 
RICHARD C. MURPHY '44 has been named general manager of Sears, Roebuck & Company's retail operations in metropolitan Atlanta. Prior la this be had been serving as general merchandise manager for the Atlanta-headquartered southern territory. He was the youngest man in the history of Sears to assume management of a store when he did so in 1948, 
June. He has learned that he has overcome 
what he calls — " a disease of the kings and 
the king of diseases" — the Gout. Sure hope 
that "DOC" makes it this year with the 50­
year club. 
Pleased to report that "DOC" NEIL J. 
"WHITEY" WHALEN took himself off "sick 
call" and is bock at the ofBce and both mental 
and physical shock are fast disappearing. Sin­
cerely trust that REV. CHARLES J. WILLIAMS 
can fulfill his plans — as to going south — 
this winter and miss some of the month's snow 
and cold weather. 
BIRTHDAY GREETINGS:— 
Feb. 23, "YOUNG DUTCH" ARTHUR J. 
BERGMAN. '17, 3910 Rosemary St., Chevy 
Chase, Md. 20015, Mar. 4. MARCH "PREP" 
WELLS, LLB. '15, 1901 E. Taylor St., Blooming­
ton, III. 61701. Mor. 11, BRAULIO A. MU­
NECAS, EE, '16, 10084 Bargman St. Hunting­
ton, Woods, Mich. 
WEDDING ANNIVERSARIES. 
Feb. 5, WILLIAM J. "PETE" NOONAN, '18, 1421 N. Boylen St., Pensocola, Fla. 32501. Feb. 17, EDWIN MORRIS STARREH, ALL-AMERICAN WATER-BOY — 419 Quincy St., Port Townsend, Wash. 98368. Feb. 19, EDWIN T. BREEN, '18, 1542 Sherwin Ave., Chicago, III. 60626. Thanks for sending CALL a card. 
RONCHEHI. KAZUS. WHALEN. O'MEARA. 
LOGAN. BEH. REV. WILLIAMS. KING. SENG. 
RYDZEWSKI. LEMMER and VOELKERS. 
Nov. 21, CHARLIE CALL wrote — "I was mighty pleased to get the cards. I hove hod a hard time, George, but expect to come through with flying colors." 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
George B. Wooge 
3305 Wrigh.'wood Ave. 
Chicago, Illinois 60647 
•19 THREE STRIKES—YOU'RE OUT 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. Theodore C. Rodemolcer Peru Foundry Co. 
Peru, Ind. 46900 
*20 N.B. DEC. J AN ISSUE Remember, send in those yellow cards. James H. Ryan 2470 East Ave., Apt. 314 Rochester, N.Y. 14610 
•21 QUIET. DUFFY? 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
Dan W. Duffy 1030 Natl. City E. 6th BIdg. Cleveland, Ohio 44114 
•22 CHECK THAT ADDRESS — 

ED. NOTE — SORRY "KID" 
It now appears that some of our classmates are on the move. RAY KEARNS of Terre Haute, and wife were visiting in Hawaii in late November. During October the ART SHEAS of Greenwich, Conn, were enjoying Cape Cod and Nantucket. Dec. 14, the JIM WHEELERS arrived at their home in Mequon, Wis. from a stoy in Palm Beach Shores, Flo. Dec 29, the CHARLIE CROWLEYS ore due to move into winter quarters located at 25 South Lakeside Drive, Lake Worth, Fla. The HEARTLEY ANDERSONS will be in close proximity. 
Our sympathy goes to FRANK BLASIUS of 516 Daytono Parkway [apt. 8) Dayton, Ohio 45406 on the death of his beloved mother—Mary Taggort Blosius. 
Anne Huguenord, doughter of our AARON of happy memory, and wife Ruby recently received her doctorate in languages, and presently is teaching at Maryland University. 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
Gerald Ashe 175 landing Road, North Rochester, New York 14625 
}6 

*23 COMMUNICATION 1969 STYLE 
Trouble? I was into my third page of this 
letter when the news broke of the death of 
JOSEPH J. CASASANTA. Previously I had sent 
you post card notices of the deaths of DICK 
NASH and JOHN C. COCHRANE. But in the 
cose of Joe, all of us around South Bend were 
awaiting the end for him, and 1 was right "on 
top" of the story at the time. So when the 
South Bend Tribune carried such a fine write-up 
and recent picture of him, it was no job at oil 
to telephone the Alumni Office to tell them to 
have 0 set of Class of '23 envelopes addressed. 
I pasted the write-up onto our letterhead and 
delivered the reproduced letters to the A.A. 
office, which folded and mailed them the some 
day. 
No doubt you hod previously received my 
post cord flashes regarding DICK NASH and 
JOHN C COCHRANE. Dick Nosh passed away 
after a heart ottock Oct. 10. Address your com­
municotion to Mrs. Bess Nash, 2519 Greenleof 
Ave., Wilmette, III. I sent you a flash cord on 
the death of JOHN COCHRANE Nov. 11. 
EMERY TOTH told me he hod seen John last 
spring and at that time John had hinted that his 
health would not permit him to attend the June 
Reunion. It appears that he never recovered 
from this illness. Mrs. Cochrane's address is 
3210 Collingwood Blvd., Toledo, Ohio 43610. 
You almost received a post card on JACK 
NORTON. Jack had a serious heart attack m 
Oct. and as of Dec. was still in the hospital. 
tAy wife and I went to Chicago for an over* 
nite stoy, theater, etc., and I telephoned Jack 
in his room at St. Francis Hosp. in Evanston. 
However, he indicated he hoped to go home 
imminently, so I suggest you write him ot his 
home address, 1522 Thorndale Ave., Chicago, 
III. 60626. LOUIS DeSMET will see to it that Jack gets your mail. 
As yet I hove been unable to get for Louis 
DeSmet a refund of $3.00 on a football gome 
ticket which he sent me. Louis indicated he 
did not get to the game until the second half 
and by that time they were no longer taking 
tickets at the gate. The ticket was for ND vs 
Penn. Stote Col., a game played Nov. 7, 1925, 
at the new Beaver Field, Section 4, Row T, 
Seat 9. If I don't succeed in getting Louis' 
refund, I shall turn it over to the Athletic 
historical library which has been a-forming for 
a couple of years. 
If my letter appears disconnected, it's be­cause of my need to revise everything which I wrote a week ago, after a solid week of epochal doings on-campus. So I revert to the Cochrane obituary, because just yesterday I re­ceived a clipping from the Toledo Blade which EMERY S. TOTH moiled me. It appears that Jock had retired from the practice of law about a month ago after the dissolution of his law firm. I discovered that he was a major in the Army during World War II, serving three years in the Pacific. He was also a post exalted ruler of the Toledo Lodge of Elks, Chief Justice of the Grand Forum of the Elks Grand Lodge, and Post Grand Knight of the Knights of Columbus. 
When I talked to Em Toth at the time of John's death, he was somewhat reticent obout his own physical condition. However, his law office letterhead had been entirely crossed out, and he gave his address as Wilson Lake, Rte. 2 Hillsdale, Mich. 49242. He did indicate in his phone conversation that he is winding up his practice. 
CY J. HARTMAN writes: "leaving for Florida in Nov. . • . bought a mobile home in Venice . . . Address: Ridgewood Mobile Home Pork, 756 Jocorando Circle, Venice, Florida 33595 . . . plan to live there six months and bock in Jackson, Mich, for summer." 
After the ND-Navy gome, WALTER F. RAU6ER wrote to me at some length about fhe ^nthetic grass sod being applied fo vari­ous football stadia oround the country, adding 
the revealing observotion "talked to the team 
physician at Princeton who said that in addi­
tion to the obvious odvontoges, players' knee 
injuries ore being reduced about 50%. When 
piling on occurs the shoe cleats can't get 
caught like they do on normal sod .. . I see 
DICK CORDRAY every Sunday at church and 
. . . everything normal. Dick ond I recently 
made a retreat at Malvern (Po.) Retreot 
House. . . Had a note from KID ASHE who 
tried to reach me by phone. . . We had sold 
our house and we were living temporarily at 
a Holiday Inn. . . My new address is Apt. 
512, Briorcliffe Apartments, 801 S. Chester Rood, 
Sworthmore, Pa. and will not be in the new 
telephone book for a year or so. My number 
is KIngsley 4-5365." 
President W. EDMUND SHEA wrote after the 
Nash funeral, giving interesting details of the 
ceremonies: "funeral was unusual . . . priest 
wore white vestments instead of the usual 
black . . . sermon was beautiful .. . no men­
tion of ND but the whole sermon in which the 
wonderful ottributes of Dick were set forth 
made the sermon a definition of what o ND 
graduate should be. . . JIM YOUNG, Louis 
DeSmet, JOHN STEPHAN, GEORGE O'GRADY, 
JACK NORTON ond JIM MARTIN all were at 
the funeral home or church, as were JUDGE 
DEMPSEY *21 and BILL ALLEN '22." 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
Louis v. Bruggner 1667 Riverside Dr., Apt. A South Bend, Ind. 46616 

'24 LES COMES UNDER THE LINE 
Digging for news and names for *24, wrote to GENE MAYL and tried to get him to comment on the recent ALUMNUS write-up regarding his activities in behotf of future ND football stars that might come from Dayton, Ohio. No onswer. Maybe he has forgotten the power of the press. Asked J. FARRELL JOHNSON Sr. to remind him, and scout his activities onyhow so we con re­peat his nome in these columns. 
Wrote to LES FOLEY, on old roommate in Sorin Sub whom I haven't seen in 18 years. Hod 
o picture clipped from the Jocksonville, Florida News this post summer when JIM CROWLEY '25 (4 Horsemen) visited there ond had o get-together with Les and my brother Ed, o syn­thetic '24er. Jim hod his football arms draped around the shoulders of LES ond ED, and I'm sure they were proud to help hold him up. 
Fed Judge JOHN KILKENNY *25, a VIP in Ore­gon lately should hove been a '24er. He started with us but took a year off to mtik some Oregon cows to help pay for his next few years ot ND. John's recent book on the IRISH of County Morrow (Ore.) is a best seller here and you aren't "in " if you haven't got an auto­graphed copy on your reading table in the 
l.r. 
Wish I hod more news ond names. It's like hond-cranking o 20 ton Mack Truck to get started. Another '24er is another brother, BILL DURCAN. He'll like that crack; he has the Mock Agency in Bronx & Westchester in good old NY. Tell EDDIE TIGHE '24 to drop me o line. 
Bill. 
This bit of information came too late for classification but we hope it makes the Jan-Feb Edition. Les Foley did not let me down .. . he come through after the roll-coll but before they rang the bell. He says: "Frequent visitors fo our fair city (Jacksonville, Flo.) include HARRY MEHRE, PAUL McNULTY, GENE CARROLL, DON MILLER, PAUL CASTNER, FRANK LEAHY, Jim Crowley, JOHNNIE LUJACK, and others." These ore all well known contemporaries but not exactly '24ers. We ore glad to odd their names in our class column, however. When they get too hot in Jocksonville, they can always cool off with a nice cool shower in Portland, Ore. They don't call Oregonians "webfeet" because of desert sand. Good to hear from you, Les. 
Keep this column in mind for anything you 
think will interest our classmates. 
Remember, send in ttios* yellow cards. 
iofflts P. Ourcon 
5400 S.W. Scholk Ftny fd. 
Portland, Ore. 97225 

*25 SHAMROCKS & SHEPHERDS IN OREGON 
JOHN F. KILKENNY very thoughtfully advised 
me of the sad news of the death of L. B. 
"BARNEY" MacNAB Dec 2. Barney was well 
known in our Qass and was Qass Sec. in our 
senior year. His widow Katherine resides at 
5202 SE Aldercrest Rd., Portland, Ore. A class 
Moss will be said. Be sure to remember 
"Barney" in your prayers. 
Some weeb ago the same John Kilkenny sent 
me a copy of a reprint of his "Shomrocb and 
Shepherds," which was published in the Ore­
gon Historical Quarterly. It was most interest­
ing, covering as it does, the contributions the 
Irish mode to the early days of the state, of 
Oregon. 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
John P. Hurley 
208S Brookdale Rd. 
Tofedo, Ohio 436Q6 

'26 ITS BEEN A LONG TIME Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
J. N. Ge/sora Gefsort A Lowell, Inc. 
200 £. 42nd St. New York, N.Y. J0017 

'27 ON AND OFF Remember, send in those yellow cards. Clarence J. Ruddy 111 W. Downer PI. Aurora, III. 60504 
'28 MEN — WATCH 
YOURSELVES 

BOB GRAHAM continues seriously ill after being 
burned in on automobile accident. He is under­
going plastic surgery at Presbyterion-St. Luke's 
Hosp, 1758 W. Congress St., Chicogo 60612. 
Please remember him in your prayers and drop 
him o line. 
ED CUNNINGHAM died in Los Angeles Dec. 20 following a long illness. CHARLIE MURPHY who visited Ed before his death said that the letters and cords received from '28 men offorded Ed greot pleasure. He is survived by his sisters. JOE LANETON will arrange for a mass for Ed. 
Our class treasurer, Joe Langton, is re­
covering from a fall from a ladder while work­
ing at home. He was in a cost for some time. 
The moral isi retired classmates should keep off 
ladders. 
Our former class president, FIEANK CREADON, and Moye represented the Qass of *28 at the funeral of our close friend, JOE CASASANTA, Dec. 5 at ND. Joe who oKvoys attended our Reunions in the past was visited by the '28 glee club and bond members at our 40th Reunion, when he was too ill to join us. Please remember Joe in your prayers. 
GLENN HATCH has retired from the presi­dency of Keystone Portland Cement Co. of Phila­delphia. Since Glenn couldn't find a certain type of ventilator for his boot, he has opened a small office in Delray Beach, Ro., for these hatch ventilotors. I am sure HOWIE PHALIN would agree with Glenn who said he should hove retired from two or three fobs in order to hove time for all the things he is doing. 
BOB NICKELLS, like Frank Sinatra, found the Los Angeles smog too much for his emphysema, so has moved to Wrightwood, Col. in the moun­tain area of the San Gabriel Choin where Bob is with the Four Seasons Realty Co. BOB NICKELLS, CHARLEY MURPHY, HOWIE PHALIN, ED McSWEENEY and ED McCAULEY all attended the USC-ND game. 
BILL DAILY wrote from Ft. Lauderdole odvising 
that the "Deed of Gift" referred to in my 
newsletter was a 40th Reunion picture which 
the '28 lawyers sent to JOHN WALLACE. 

FRANK CREADON has been in touch with 
JOE DORAN concerning arrangements for a 
'28 Class cocktail party at Joe's home near 
Lafayette, Ind., after the Purdue football game 
in 1769. Keep this game in mind when you 
order football tickets in June. 

BOB BANNON called while visiting his son and fomily in the Chicago area during his "nionksgiving vocation. Bob teaches metallurgy at the Newark Col of Engineering. He men­tioned that he, like SWEDE SCHROEDER, is on amateur flier. Are there any other '28 men with this hobby? 
BOB HAMILTON, who won the "Pan Am Sweepstakes" trip around the world, wrote me from Europe and from Puerto Rico, where he was visiting his daughter. Sister St. Bernodette, who is teoching there. BOB RIGNEY is visiting his son in Germany who is a pilot for P.A.A. Speak­ing of traveling. Rev. JIM McSHANE SJ wrote from his mission that he had traveled 12 hours by burro through mountains in Honduras. 
I was pleased to hear from a NY friend that KEN POWERS is pres. of the County Officers Assn. of the Slate of NY. 
While attending a conference at the U. of 
Michigan, I was advised that Rev. Paul Fettig, 
who is a son of LEO, is very active in a gradiH 
ate students organization there. 
The New York Palladium-Times of Oswego car­
ried a picture of JOHN DAVIS with a story 
based on our Class Survey. 
Judge BILL JONES, Class vice pres., suggested 
that we elect JIM ALLAN end BILL MURPHY our 
two most convivial classmates, since they have 
hod perfect attendance records at our thirteen 
class cocktail parties. 
Our class vice pres., BILL DWYER, did his usual good job in getting '28 men together for the Chicago Rockne Memorial Awards Dinner, including: ED McSWEENEY, our retired bachelor classmate; GEORGE McLAUGHLIN, pres. of his amusement co. (Carnival Rides); RAY LUSSON who is still with the Chicago Board of Education; BILL LEAHY who does extensive traveling for his special purpose food company; FRANK CREADON who combines his life insurance consultant work with political activity in Riverside, ML; CHARLIE SCHUESSLER, pres. of John C. Tully Co., general contractors; ED RAFTER who is still a bachelor and continues with Internal Revenue. I was sorry to hear that ED McKEOWN has re­turned to Mercy Hospital where he hod had 
surgery a few months ago. Please remember him in your prayers. 



One Sophisticated 
J * Walter Kennedy '34, whose range of pursuits over the years has spanned publicity director at ND, mayor of Stamford, Conn, and his present post as Commissioner of the National Basketball Association, is impressed with the "broad horizons of today's students." 
"We were students during the de­pression and were primarily con­cerned with the day-to-day rigors of getting an education," said Ken­nedy. "Today there is a marked difference in the diversification of opportunities for involvement avail­able to the student." 
Kennedy, who through his PR po­sition at ND and his involvement with sports has kept a close watch on his alma mater, suggests that understanding the overall changes in ND helps an alumnus to under­stand "the new student." 
"The things I read concerning students' demands for participation in university business would hove been unthinkable 30 years ago," he says. "And to many olumni today, these demands may be shocking if they are not keyed to 

/. W. Kennedy sports a realistic outlook. 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
louis F. Buckley 641S N. Sheridan Rd. Chicago, III. <»62« 
'29 THINK YOU CAN WAIT? 
The June 6, 7 and 8, 1967 Class Reunion is less than six months in the future. IRV CORCORAN writes "Sorry I wasn't able to be with you for the Purdue game, but KOPECKY and I will be oil set to entertain in June. Kindest regards to you and Margaret." 
From BILL NEFF, "I'm making plans to at­tend." From MARC KIRCHNER, " I have in­tended to write to you each time I receive the ALUMNUS and avidly read the '29 news. I know that if all the '29 fellows would write to you, your column would fill the ALUMNUS." (MARC, that is one problem your class secretary would like to be faced with, particularly between now and June 6, 7 and 8) . . . . "Now hear this, OS the Navy would say, I am planning to come up for the 40th Class Reunion if any way possible, that is, if I stay well. I will request leave and if my son. Marc, age 14, who would like to enter ND, con get out of school in time, I will bring the three of us and moke it like a vocation .. . I have been doing well as I 



Sport 

the changes of the university." Kennedy, whose spacious office sits atop the lavish new Madison Square Garden, is a firm believer in the ND spirit and he talks freely about the influence ND has had on his life. "At first I was amazed and now delighted as I get older and continue to find that no matter where I go — whether to Rome or New York City — my association with Notre Dame is continuously rewarding. 
He returned to ND in 1943 to handle University publicity until De­cember of 1945 when he became vice-president of the Scholastic Sports Institute in New York. 
By 1959, Kennedy was hustling in other directions, however, and began opening political doors. Moving out a former three-term mayor in a Stamford primary, he went on to defeat his Republican opponent for top fob in that city of 100,000. He came back again in 1961 and was elected again. 
It was following this term, in 1963, that the N.B.A. sought and got the leadership of the then 50­year-old Kennedy. And if the growth and improvement of the league is any indication (as it certainly must be), the N.B.A. has picked up some of the "broad horizons" Kennedy likes to see in students. 

have not been bock to the hospital since Ma/ 
when my heart again went into the fibrillation 
which has been my plague since 1965." |A 
bit more about Marc will appear later.) Your 
secretary would like to make the point thot no 
small number of wives of '28ers come with their 
respective husbands last June Reunion time and 
hod lodging at Randall's Inn in Roselond. If 
this idea appeals to any of you we suggest that 
you make reservations early. 
From JOE lENlHAN our Class President, "I 
expect to be on the Campus again this Foil to 
carry forward plans for our Reunion . . . give 
my regords to Rev. lOU THORNTON CSC." 
Joe and Dolores and their U.'o daughters, 
Nancy (17} and Sharon Lenihan Shine (St. 
Mary's grad] as well os "Joy" Shin0 added to 
the enjoyment of the after-Purdue gome get-
together. 
We con postpone mention of sad news for 
a few paragraphs, and some of you hove 
learned of it by now, but w« must report that 
HENRY L. BURNS of Tonowondo, NY died 
Sept. 21. Father LOUIS THORNTON CSC 
received this letter of his dear friend HANK 
and of many of you, from HANK's son HENRY 
L. JR. "62 (son JOSEPH P. is of Class of '58). "Just o short note. Father, to inform you of my father's death. My dad often mentioned your name so I thought you would wont to be put on notice of his death. I would be grateful to you for passing our sod news to my dad's friends in the Class of 1929. He was looking forward so very much to his 40th Reunion." Mrs. Burns resides at 160 Deerhurst Pork 
Blvd., Tonowonda, NY. We odd for the Class, 
our sympathy and promise of continuing re­
membrance in proyer. 
Henry was on executive of the Warder Paper 
Box Corp. Previously he had been president of 
the Ranburn Paper Box Co., a firm which he 
and his father founded in 1930. A groduate of 
ND he received the "Man of the Year" award 
from his alma mater in 1967 for his "responsible 
leadership in the business and charitable fields." 
Henry was a past president of the Buffalo 
Alumni Club. 
The office of the Commissioner of Baseball, 
680 Fifth Ave., NY, is blessed with the ca­
pable services of one of the most articulate 
members of the Class of '29, JIM GALLAGHER. 
You guys who ore Jim's friends will find his 
recent note informative. You gols (if any ore 
reoding] will have to look elsewhere for o 
society column. The note . . . "Married Aug. 8 
to Mary Elizabeth Cleary Stehlin." 
JOHN A. VAICHULIS, 10455 S. Wabash Ave., Chicago, "As much as I would like to moke the after-Purdue get-together, we are still in a doze from losing our son. Dr. EUGENE M. VAICHULIS '59, Lt. Medical Service Corps USN in Southeast Asia, Feb. 15. The more tragic part is that he mode the supreme sacrifice on his mother's birthday. My son and I were planning to attend his 10th and our 40th Reunions in June. We go from day to day, taking them one ot a time." 
From HAROLD BAIR, Fresno, Col.: "Had o letter from JOE KRAKER, who is still in Akron, says he has eight grandchildren so we ore still three up on him with 11. Stopped at Aptos, Cai. to see ELY BYRNE, the baseball Byrne, but he was on the golf course. Had a nice visit with his wife — both are re­tired. Hove seen no others of our Class re­cently. God willing I expect to see you in June '69." (Joe Kroker's son JEROME is an ND senior.) 
ELMO E. MOYER is teaching a course on electronic solid-state circuitry and equipment as applied to power utilization. The 15-week course for plant technicians is ot Adirondack Community Col. 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
lorry Stauder Engineering BIdg. Notre Dame, Indiana 46555 

•30 ONLY A YEAR OF SERVICE 
Members of our Class will be saddened to learn of the death of BILL SHERMAN'S son, a young priest ordained just lost year. He hod been serving os on associate pastor in Nashville. He had gall bladder surgery recently and later complications from this resulted in his death. The news story stated that Bill Sherman is now 
o social studies teacher at Korns H5 in Knox­ville. 
CHET ASHMAN from Morristown, Tenn. sent 
us o note recently and included the news clip­
ping concerning Father Sherman. Chet is still 
producing the best chairs in the Southland. 
BOB COONEY sent o Christmas cord from 
Washington and stated that he sets the follow­
ing alumni quite frequently: BILL WALSH "30, 
NORDY HOFFMAN '31, PAT CONWAY, VINCE 
HOURABAN, VINCE DOYLE. Hoffman is ex­
ecutive secretary of the Democratic Senate 
Campaign Committee. Bob is already planning 
for the 1970 reunion. 
TOM McDOUGAL wrote that he is feeling 
very fit now after o siege of sickness. He was 
elected again for another six-year term as 
fudge in Antigo, Wis. 
TIM TOOMEY wrote that his plans went awry 
this year for seeing some football out here on 
the Campus and olso getting to the dedication 
of the new Athletic Convocation Center in 
December. The dedication did attract a lof 
of alumni from this region. 
WALT LANGFORD who is a member of the 
Alumni Board and also on the Foculty Board in 
control of Athletics, wos at the dinner in the 
Monogrom Lounge of the ACC honoring the 
Alumni Board meeting here during dedication 
week. 
At the recent Christmas party for the faculty 
of the Arts and Letters College I sow Louis 
Hasley, Dick Sullivan and Paul Bartholomew 
(1929). 
Rev. Leo R. Ward also attended this function. 
He is retired from teoching, but still continues 
his writing, and has on excellent article in the 
lost issue of the Review of Politics. 
This week we had o retirement luncheon 
honoring Miss Loretta Brennan who was the 
secretory to the Dean of Arts and Letters for 
twenty-eight years. In that period she served 
under four deans. Fathers Bolond, Frank Cav­
anaugh, Sheedy and very recently the new 
Dean, Fred Crosson. Attending the luncheon 
were Father Cavanaugh and Father Raymond 
Murray who tought sociology to many mem­
bers of the 1930 class. 
Word of the death of WALTER SCHOLAND 
Dec. 3 was sent to Dick Sullivan by Dr. PAT 
SLAVIN. After his World War II experience in 
the Navy, Walt served as a sector military 
governor in the post-war rehabilitation of 
Okinowa. In recent years he was in the whole-
sole and retail shoe business, and was area 
sales representative for Lucey Co of NY the lost 
four years. I am certain that members of the 
1930 Class will remember him end his relatives 
in their prayers. 
This closes out 1968. I hope you will send in o few items about yourself, your family, or about other alumni contacts. When this ALUM­NUS reaches you we will be well into 1969, but I can still wish all of you the best for the coming year. 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
Devere T. P/unkett, Secy. O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

'31 WALTER AND FREEDOM 
PART COMPANY Greetings again to the correspondents in the Cioss of 1931. 1 received o card from WALTER 
F. PHILIPP telling of his morrioge July 13 to Miss Mary L. Toomey, Somerset, Mass. His ad­dress is 11 Buxton Ave., Somerset, Moss. 02726. I met WALTER CAHILL ond he informed me that BILL LEAHY hod been hospitalized recent­
ly and is now co«ipletal]r racovered and bock 
at his office. He abo inianned eie Ihot B> 
lANGENFELO, Nn, Hobtem, Woe., hod nor­
ried and a blessed event is expected soon. 
LOUIS GODOY Idephcned while in Oucogo. 
He is in the insurance besincss in NY and abo 
devotes time to leaching Spanish and Biglish 
to adults in the NY school system. He sends 
warmest greetings to all classmates. I obo 
talked to PAUL GRANT. Springfield, III., who 
promises to make a visit to Chicago soon. 
TOM MONAHAN and hb wife, Mary, were in Chicago recently which provided on oppor­tunity for a most delightful vi»t. F. X. MUR­PHY, JR., phoned from the airport in October and then in early December had to return to Manitowoc, Wise, for the funeral of ha mother, who had been ill (or years. 
DAN HAIPIN has written offering a sugges­tion that ALUMNI discuss the installation 61 an HONOR ROLL, listinn all those in religious life, with their pastors. He fceb that this may be a means of assisting vocations, for further information, I suggest writing Dan Holpin, Suite 340, 342 Atedbon Ave.. NY. NY 10017. Best wishes to oil ond please continue to send news regularly. 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
James T. Ooyfe, 
1561 Ridge Ave.. Apt. 308 
Eranston, Iff. dQ20I 

'3 2 YOU'RE CATCHING 
ON. SEC. 

I'm writing thb in early December, faiowing 
you won't see it till ahnost February. So it b 
now I know that in the column I wrote in early 
November I should have soid "Season's Greet­
ings" — so Happy Edstcrl 
CLIFF PRODEHL soys, "It was a real pleosure 
to run into you and your charming Ev at the 
Navy gome. Thonks (!) to BOB CAHIU. who 
doled out those ground-level seats. He prob­
ably thinks us old duffers have to be close to 
the field to see. Saw JOE CAREY vrho must hove 
found Ponce de Leon's secret. Went to Ger­
many to see son, Don, at Wurzberg then on to 
Nuremberg, Munich, Salzburg and Innsbruck 
in Austria. Then to Zurich and on to Rome. 
If you visit Rome, don't miss seeing VINCE 
McALOON. Bock home saw VINCE DONOHUE 
looking well fed and talked to PAUL HOWE 
who b talking of retiring. CLYDE ROBERTS 
is a veep with big steel." Thanks. Qiif. for 
always coming through. 
FRANK OBERKOETTER and wife Virginia 
celebrated their 28th onnnersory by visiting 
the ND Log Chopel where they were married by 
REV. BOURKE MOTSETT. '32. 
Another note from RAY GEIGER — "Was in Oklahoma and tried to see JAIMES REIDY [out of town) and HENRY A. MEYER — I got on the telephone." 
BILL POWER who b a constant or consistent contributor writes: "After Timothy Leory. high priest of LSD, was allowed in Washington Hall, i seriously question how complete was our edu­cation in our time? Front-page headlines regard­ing a seminar at NO might hove blared. "How the Prohibition low Con be Interpreted to Assist in the Manufacture and Marketing of Alcoholic Beverages." A second panel member would cover "The Quick Hit — How to Ex­tract Money from Reluctant Bonkers.'* Were there any ottempts to cancel thb program, we could hove stoged a protest march and wrecked a street cor. The contrast between yesteryear and today is that we would hove ended up in [ail and then sent to our homes — expelled from school. I was in Boroboo (continues Rill) and sow WALTER 'IKT TERRY, a member of the State Senate. I see JOHN LITCHER weekly at the Serra Club and TED HAIPIN." Thank you. Bill, for your newsy letter. 
Restless natives again: Dr. ALBERT i . RUSSO Jr from Salem. Vo.. to 115 FOIrick Hemy Dr., Williomsburg, Va. 23185. And EUO 1AW> 
39 

RENCE LARGURA from Gary to 2 Mayfield Ave.. Volparoiso, Ind. 46383 and M. CLAY ADAMS out of NY to 205 Stockton Blvd., Sea Girt, NJ 08750. {How about a note. Cloy?) Thanks, fellows. 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. 

Florence J. McCorfhy 
6 River Road 
Scarsdo/e, N.Y. 70583 
*33 A NEW GAME — NAVY VS. FLU 

A bout with the flu greatly restricted my activities 
over the Navy gome weekend but my wife and 
I did attend the rally the night before. We had 
dinner at the Vespers Club with BOB CAHILL 
'34 and sympathized with him over the ticket 
situation. Bob now has all of the activities in 
the new 12,000-seat Athletic and Convocation 
Center as well os the football games. We sow 
PETE CONNELLY early in the evening and en­
joyed his witticisms. We were most fortunate in 
spending considerable lime with Mr. and Mrs. 
LARRY SEXTON who hod a group with them 
from Indianapolis. At the roily we visited with 
ED KRAUSE '34 and his son. Rev. EDWARD C. 
KRAUSE CSC '63. Ed thanked all of us for our 
prayers on behalf of Mrs. Krause who is re­
covering satisfactorily from serious injuries re­
ceived in on automobile accident over o year 
ago. Their youngest son, Philip, is a freshman 
this year at ND. 

TIM TOOMEY '30 reported that he sow JACK HOYT at the Navy gome but did not gel to talk to him. 1 am sorry to have missed you. Jack, 
Dec. 3 I attended the basketball game between Kings Col and ND. After the gome a reception was given by the Wilkes Barre alumni to honor Lt. Gov. RAYMOND J. BRODERICK, '35, BILL MEEHAN, '48, Coach JOHN DEE, and Rev. 
TOM BRENNAN CSC. WILLIAM CAMPBELL, pres. of the NY Subway Alumni held open house, be­fore and after the gome, in his Sterling Hotel suite. Kings is on outstanding men's college founded by the Holy Cross Fathers in 1942 at Wilkes Borre, Pa. 
STEVE BANAS writes that he and his family ore in Nairobi, Kenya, and were preparing for their main safari ofter a visit to Nairobi Na­tional Pork and then were to start a four-day trek into the bush. 
I asked CHUCK HAFRON of Son Francisco to be my alternate at the Southern Col game and am eagerly awaiting his report. I had to cancel my trip because of the previously mentioned flu. 
TONY CROWLEY wrote that he was regretfully unable to attend the Navy gome. He is pres. of the Evansville Vanderburgh County BIdg. Author­ity which is a three-building complex scheduled to open in Jon. or Feb., 1969. Tony's oldest daughter, Colette, is married to Dr. Ed. J. O'Brien and they hove one child. Colleen Morie, 18 months and another on the way. His son. Bill, was graduated in June '67 from ND ond then on to the Infantry and OCS. Bill was com­missioned a 2nd if. Sept. 6. The Crowley's daughter, Mary Anne, is teaching in Peoria, III., which leaves Mrs. Oowley and Tony to wander around the house by themselves. Tony's address is: 2401 E. Chandler, Evansville, Ind. 47714. 
i received another interesting report on Beaver Island, Mich, from BILL WIHENBURG. From his description, the island sounds very inviting. 
CARLOS H. FRANK was on the Campus Oct. I I and 12. He is now a construction project mgr, for State U. Construction Fund. He is building college buildings for NY State. 
The Yellow Information Cord will be included 
in this issue of the ND ALUMNUS. Please use 
it to send me news. With the increased number 
of issues, I need your help more than ever. 

A belated Happy New Year to all of my classmatesl Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
Chorles A. Con/ey 
700 fast Turnbutl Avenue 
Haverlown, Pa. 79083 
2iS 
<34 ANOTHER OUT 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
Edward F. MansHeld 523 W. Hillsdale San Maleo, Co/. 94403 
'35 MAKES YOU PAUSE 


AND THINK 
The following column was intended to be pub­lished in the Dec-Jon. issue. However, due to the "accelerated program" increasing the num­ber of issues, I missed the deadline. At this writing another script from me is needed, so I ask your indulgence in using the one prepared for the last issue. 
However, there is a sod announcement to add to it. WALT MATUS passed away sud­denly Dec. 8 while vacationing in Florida. When he was here for the Purdue game I was kidding him at my home that I needed an assistant secretary for the weekend, and he volunteered. I know Walt would not wont me to change the first paragraph of the article below, so I am submitting it as written several weeks ago. A Moss was offered by classmate Rev. JIM CORRIGAN SJ and the University had 
o Mass said Dec. 15. For those who wish to express their condolences Walt's sister is Mrs. Ella Mognob, 172 Gilbert Ave., East Paterson, N.J. 
The South Benders will sorely miss Walt, who hasn't missed a football weekend in South Bend for many years. 
Through the good offlces of WALT MATUS, who wos appointed assist, sec. for the Purdue weekend, the following list of '35ers who were either seen on Campus or elsewhere in town wos compiled: ART DEMERS, JIM JENNINGS, BILL KEEFE, ANDY MAFFEI, TOM STRINGER, ED VAN HUISSELING, and TOM WELCH. 
Several of the group who made their presence known attended a couple of impromptu re­unions at the homes of PAUL FERGUS and BILL RYAN. There were probably many more in town, but our spies did not And them. The group usually attends at least one game a year 
— and the South Benders look forward to seeing them. 
After his return home Jim Jennings wrote with some oddittonol information. JIM HOWARD, his old roommate, spent a few days in Roswell, N. M. with the Jennings. The Howards have just enrolled their son as a freshman at the U. of Denver. He also enclosed on article from a Washington, DC paper, an­nouncing the death of JACK WACKS' wife. Jim, while in DC hod o long visit with Jack, who has been with the F.B.I, for 27 years and is currently located in the Washington office. 
The ALUMNI office informed me recently that it hod just received news of the death of FRANK KOPPELBERGER, who passed away in October, 1967. 
I wont to remind you that with the step-up in scheduled editions of the ALUMNUS I need ammunition from you fellows just about the day I flnish my column for each edition. 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
William F. Ryan 7620 East Washington Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46617 
'36 THIS MAN NEEDS HELP 
Just about gave up on news when I rec'd a vety nice Christmas card from JOE MAHAR olong with a few lies of his recent trip to Mt. Rush­more in the Black Hills Region in S. Dakota and Yellowstone National Park. Am quite familiar with Mt. Rushmore and Yellowstone National Pork having visited that area a couple of times when we visited my sister-in-law and husband who live in Rapid City, S. D. which is near Mt. Rushmore Park. These two resort areas should be a must on anyone's travel thru the West. 
Looks like I'll have to find some other means 
to flll this col. since many of you don't write. 
not even a post cord. Anyone for suggestions? 
Would like to hear from WOODY STILL­
WAGON as he used to send news quite often 
along with a few others. 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
lorry Palkovic 
301 Mechonic St. 
Oronge, NJ . 07050 

*37 JOE. WHATS THE LAKE STORY? 
Prime time recognition must be given to TOM WHITE of the St. Louis WHITES for his flne con­tribution to the SUMMA program. Tom didn't tip his hond at the last Reunion but we should hove mode him Treasurer. Tom, the Class is mighty proud of your action of returning to ND some of the fruits of your work. I'm sure Dean McCarthy is smiling on this one and would pin the convention badge on your lapel with pleas­ure. I'll hove to check with FLATELY also. 
AL SCHWARTZ'S note from Solina shows that FRANK LESSELYONG, former VP of Tonka Toys, will headquarter his own Arm in DALLAS, also known as "KIRK COUNTRY." Lesselyong was formerly with Doughboy Ind., Smith-Miller and James Industries. Frank should moke the next Reunion. . . . Another president is DAN FINN of Baker Castor Oil Co., div. of Nat. Lead. Dan now resides in NJ, but secy hosn't come across him yet. We have all contributed to DAN's Co. over the years. 
WALT NIENABER's Christmas cord brings us up to dote OS he made three home games. Family wise, one daughter married on Walt's 28th onnv., son, JAY from ND to low school at 
U. Texas (again KIRK COUNTRY) and daughter in St. Louis U. and should see the White fam­ily. BERNIE MIEZER has son Bill (No. 2), fresh­man. Alumni Hall. 
Address changes report HARRY BALDWIN, Burlington, Ont., Canada, probably salting it away. MARK LONERGAN back north from Philly to East Calais, Vt. 
Rnally, our usual Christmas letter from Rev BOB LOCHNER CSC now at Morryhill Retreat House, Pineville, Lo. 71360. 
We learned of another honor to '37, too late to help in the column, DICK DELANEY being selected as a candidate for the Board. 
Still have to soy another "THANKS" to Tom White. .. . Do they still throw fellows in the lake??!?? 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. Joseph P. Quinn 
P.O. Box 275 
lake Lenape Andover, NJ. 07827 

'38 I UKE THAT — "A WORDY CAUSE" 
Thank heaven for Christmas cords and the new Convocotion Center—they mode this column. ERNIE KLING's cord come from his new home above Los Angeles at 1548 Brentford Ave. Westlake Village, Calif, where they moved from Cope Kennedy. PAUL HUGHES from Flint, TOM BOHEN from St. Paul, JERRY KANE from Seattle sent cords early enough to make the deadline but with scant news except that the Bohens are now grandparents. 
At the UCLA-ND game dedicating the new field house—called Convocation Center by the English majors—I sow JOHNNY MOIR-Holl-of-Fomer, All-Americon bosketboller. "This is one I had to make," he said. Also there were TOMMY JORDAN, Moir's teammate, HARVEY FOSTER, CHUCK SWEENEY, quite recovered from his spring heart attack. JIM BEAUDWAY and of course JOHN PLOUFF who manages the twin domes. 
Saw DON HICKEY at Joe Cososonta's funeral at which the Glee Club song Joe's song "Notre Dome Our Mother"—"never more beautifully," said Don. The band marched to the cemetery playing the other ND songs Joe wrote. A flne tribute, well deserved. 
*»''^^''ii>i.%-V^­
^"^ 

Ron into JOHNNY O'CONNOR at the In­
dianapolis Athletic Club where 1*11 be staying 
during the legislative session in January, Febru­
ary and March, when like other politicians across 
the nation I'll be dedicating myself to wordy 
causes! 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
Burnie Bauer 7/39 Western South Bendf Indiana 

*39 JOE NEEDS A CONDUCTOR 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
Joseph E. Hannan 1804 Greenwood Dr. Soufh Bend^ Ind. 46614 

*40 GERRY DESERVES A BY-LINE 
Thonk goodness for a dependable correspondent 
like GERRY SAEGERT. 1 con always depend on 
him for periodic news and he has salvaged 
this column from oblivion on numerous oc­
casions. Gerry writes that he comes to foot­
ball games at a spot in the Midwest to meet 
easterners like JIM ROGERS. JACK PINDAR 
and CLIFF LETCHER. Where are the Midwest­
erners? He suggests that we, men of '40, meet 
at Gate 3 after the gome for at least a hello 
and good-by. Thot's the spot to meet next fall, 
unless 1 receive some other suggestions. I will 
remind you before next fall of this suggestion. 
Gerry continues to describe a pleasant visit: 
"Marie and 1 spent a weekend with JIM 
DANER and Dorothy at their Mt. Clemens 
home. Hod a wonderful visit which wasn't 
spoiled too much by the Mich. State disap­
pointment. Bock in NY rode in the same bus 
with VIC VERGARA and LEO SANTINI to 
the Novy gome. Vergaro still looks like a 
sophomore — that guy is ageless." 
Enclosed was a clipping from the NY Cath­olic News of an article with a DON FOSKETT by-line. Don is editor of the Hartford Diocese newspaper. On Nov. 10 Dr. ROBERT J. FROST presented a paper at the International Sym­posium on Standardization of Hermatology in Milan, Italy. He has just accepted the chair­manship of the SUMMA for Northwest In­diana. Good luck. Bob. 
Hod word about JOE THESING from two sources. Dr. JERRY O'NEILL wrote to tell us about the operation for a back problem he and Dr. Arnold performed. Joe is doing well and apparently it is difficult to hold him down. Jerry odds that he is looking forward to our 30th Reunion. I hope all of you are thinking about it too. Fr. JACK ANTON, "38 and JOE ZWERS, '38 visited Joe and ran into TOM BRENNAN and BERNIE MASTERSON. 
This is a rother short column, but I need your help and 1 know many of you will take care of that situation immediately. 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
Robert G. Sanford 
233 W. Centra/ Ave. 
Lombard, ill. 60148 

'41 THIRD OUT—SIDE RETIRED? 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
James F. Spellman Spellman & Madden 342 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y. 10017 

*42 NEW YEAR RESOLUTION? 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
William M. Hickey 5500 W. 73rd St. Chicago, 111. 60638 


'43 IS JUNIOR TAKING OVER? 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. Fronfc Kaiser 
307 Cherry Chatsworth, III, 60921 





MORGAN 
'V f i-^W 

DETECTIVE AGE 
fl 

A s A PRIVATE EYE and a Notre Dame graduate, James Morgan, '47, of Worcester, Mass., must be in a categorical class somewhat by him­self. 
From his ofBce on Main St., he directs the operation of The Morgan Detective Agency, which his father established in 1930. 
His work has called him to Europe several times, and he hod just re­turned from his fifth trip abroad when interviewed by the ALUMNUS. 
Pouring over boxes and boxes of color slides of Europe just returned from processing, Morgan discussed— among many other things — the intricacies of his private detective work. The agency offers armed pro­tection, conveyance of valuables and a crime prevention service. 
A long list of detective services calls for such activities as surveil­lance and investigation, shadowing and inquiry, undercover agents and apprehension of embezzlers and larceners. A task calling for more and more of Morgan's men is the 
1 -t 
M 

•. i r 
h^M^ 
Jim Morgan generally likes what he sets. 

An Eye With An Eye 
js^n-j 

tracing of missing persons, and more often than not, it involves college students. 
"We often find them In Boston, Provincetown, or on the Cape," said Morgan, "and they have often just token up with hippy groups." Me added, "most of the kids are pretty reasonable—often it is the parents who have missed the boat some­place." 
But all the blame for maladiusted young people does not lie with the parents, Morgan insists. "Too many students believe the world owes them a living—end things fust aren't like that." 
Me stresses the need for "author­ity and discipline," two qualities of an NO education he regards as "key to the University's success." 
The '47 business and commerce graduate helped set up and main­tain an Opportunities Center in downtown Worcester. Morgan and others involved in the Center find people in need of jobs and {obs in need of people and get the two together. 




Congrats 
JAmSS A. BOAM '16 has been named vice-president of sales for the Magnavox Consumer Electronics Company, a newly formed subsidiary of the Magnavox Compony. Previous to this he had been manager of Mognovox's Chicago zone. 
C. D, HULL ' ^ has been elected as a director and senior vice-president of ffie Otis Elevator Com­pany, in the latter capacity he will be responsible for ffie Company's efevofor ontf escalator opera­tions in the VS. and Canada. He has been with Olis since 1948. 
WfLUAM D. MANLY 'fl has been appointed a vice-president of the Material Systems Div., Union Carbide Corp., New York. He has been with Union Carbide since 1949 and was general manager of the gas turbine products and chemical process equipment before being named to this 
new posf. 

f£T« J. KEINAN J«. '49 has been named as Director of Deve/opmenf for ffie University of Defroif. f^e will assist in determining long-range development plans and also implement fund­raising programs for the university. He was director and vice-president of the ND National Alumni Board from 1962 to 7965 and also the Detroit Club's "Man of the Year" in 1966. 
MMES i. CIEAME* '50 fros been promoted to ossisfonf generof soles manager for the New Departure-Hyatt Bearings Division of Generoi Mofors. Creamer joined CM in 1952 as a /unior safes engineer and was manager of sales staff op­erations prior to this appointment. 
lONALO B. MriTEl '50 has been promoted fo ossisfonf general counsel of Insurance Company of Norfh America. He Joined INA as an attorney in 1959 and was named assistant counsel in 1966. His new duties are in the stale regulatory and legis­lative field. 
*44 RISE AND SHINE­IN SILVER 
Not much moil has been received since the last column went to press. That's to be ex­pected because during that time the holiday season occurred and those doys always are hectic ones. Now, with the new year in full swing end life returned to a somewhat normal pattern, let us hope your poor secretary, in the waning months of his tenure, will receive a deluge of correspondence. That would be a shocker, but, oh, what o nice onel 
Sympathy and prayers are extended to 
CREIGHTON MILLER, Cleveland, Ohio, upon 
the death of his father. 
A fine letter was received from FARRELL 
QUINLAN, Sunapee, N.H., resort owner. He 
didn't think he could get owoy for the Re­
union in June, but lost summer, due to a 
forced leave of absence for serious surgery, 
he realized that his business would go on 
without his constant supervision. He is in good 
shape now and looks forward to the big 2Sth 
on June 6-7-8. He hopes some of his interhall 
football and boxing "playmates" such as TED 
HALEY, TOM LOMBARDO, TOM NOLAN, 
BlU McNAMARA, WALT ROMITO and KER­
MIT ROUSSEVE will be on hand. 
The Green Bay contingent of '44ers wos among those present for the local celebration of ND COMMUNION SUNDAY. An evening liturgical service for ND families and friends was held at Resurrection Church and wos followed by a dinner at which the new bishop of Green Boy, the Most Reverend Aloysius J. Wycislo, was the honored guest. During the liturgy and in the dialogue homily port of it JOE FIEWEGER was obsolutely sensational. When he was at ND, he was known to be c pretty good golfer but certainly not an orotor. 
In the recent list of address chonges received 
from the Alumni Office, there was one for ED 
DUNIGAN. He not only moved from Oak Park, 
III., to South Bend but also changed his name 
from Edward B. Dunigon to E. BRYAN DUN­
IGAN. 
Now for a little updating on Reunion plans— 
Up to the first of the year oil '44ers should have received three releases, nomely: a cur­rent Class roster, a letter from Closs pres GEORGE BARISCILLO initiating the SILVER ANNIVERSARY YEAR and another letter from George announcing the continuation and ex­pansion of the SILVER ANNIVERSARY BE­QUEST PROGRAM. These ore only the begin­ning of o flood of correspondence you will be receiving up to Reunion time June 6-7-8. 
Lost foil the class pres "reappointed" the ten orea vice-pres., elected at the 20th Re­union. To refresh your memory (as well as their memories) they are as follows: New England & Northeost — CHARLES J. PAHER­SON ond JOHN A. LYNCH, both of Framing-ham, Moss.; Southeast — JAMES J. MAHONEY, Orlando, Fla.; Chicogo — FRANK J. VIGNOLA, Winnetka, III.; West Coost — JOE EATON, la Canada, Calif.; NYC — JOHN J. DUFFY, Garden City, NY; Mid-Atlantic — JAMES J. CLARKE, Rockville, Md.; Midwest — JOHN H. CRAHAN, Napoleon, Ohio; Texas & Southwest 
— SAM A. WING, Dallas, Texas; and North­west — JOHN V. HUPF, Seattle, Wosh. These men have been asked to concentrate on those '44ers in their areas and to "drum-up" ot­tendonce for the 25th on June 6-7-8. 
Co^hoirmen for the SILVER ANNIVERSARY REUNION are "BLACK JOHN" MURPHY, Oy­ster Boy, NY and THOMAS J. ROLFS, West Bend, Wis. The general committee consists of the ten regionol vice-presidents, the class treasurer, THOMAS O'REILLY, the class secre­tary, yours truly, and the former class presi­dents, RICHARD DOERMER, JOHN THORN­TON end JOHN LYNCH. The local committee is made up of three South Bend residents — ROBERT LEHMAN, JOSEPH DILLON and WIL­LIAM LAWLESS. GERALD STANTON. Palatine, 

III., has been appointed as SILVER ANNIVER­
SARY BEQUEST CLASS AGENT. 
In October two planning meetings were 
held. One was at ND attended by Tom, Joe, 
yours truly and three members of the Alumni 
Office. Another was in NY with George, "Black 
John," and Tom on hand. You can see that 
the plans ore in the works to make the 25th 
0 truly memorable occasion. 
During the next few months undoubtedly 
some of you will be asked by one or another 
of the Reunion committee to assist in some 
manner. Consider it a privilege! To assure the 
success of the SILVER ANNIVERSARY REUNION 
everyone needs to cooperate wholeheartedly. 
"Rise & SfllNE in '69" needs to be much more 
than a simple little rhyme. 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
Joseph A. Neuleld 
P.O. Box 853 Green Boy, Wis. 
'45 STACCATO STYLE CHARLES T. HASTINGS has been named Western Industrial Soles Mgr. for American Standard's Industrial Products Div. From St. Louis he will have orea responsibility for American Standards products lines. Sow JIM CLYNES at the King's-N.D. Basket­ball gome. He is City Judge in Ithaca and still single. From 0 distance I saw BILL BRACKEN, RUDY ANDERSON and TOM BERGIN at the Navy game — Did talk with "Long John" KELLY, who storted with us in Brownson and is with the FBI in Washington. Rev. BILL BEVINGTON has moved from Chat­tanooga to 2001 West End Ave., Nashville, Tenn. 37202. Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
F. M. Linehan 
P.O. Box 5000 Binghom/on, N.Y. 13902 
'46 SMART MAN­
THAT SHAPIRO 

DAVID H. ARMSTRONG, Aurora attorney, has 
been appointed Republican minority member of 
the Illinois Commerce Commission by Gov. 
Shapiro. His term expires in January '73. 
JOE PHELAN renewed acquaintances with 
JIM MELLO, BOB SATTI and many of his other 
friends during the big ND-Navy weekend. In 
fact, I recall Joe giving the team a bit of 
encouragement fust before the first half ended. 
I received word that PAUL DOYLE has been 
transferred from New Orleans, La., to El Dora­
do, Ark., by the Murphy Oil Corp. Good luck 
in your new quarters, Paul. 
JOHN P. McGUIRE, that very successful NY 
attorney, called to let me know that all is 
well with the McGuire family. John assured me 
that he will moke every effort to attend the 
next Class Reunion. Hope the same is true 
of all you other members of the Class of '46. 
Recently, I hod the pleasure of meeting my good friend JAMES "HARP" DOUGHERTY. "Harp" and his wife, Stevie, still reside in Woodlyn, Pa., and are the proud parents of seven children. 
Thot's it for now. Hope to have more the next time. Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
Peter P. Rkhhki 
6 Robin P/oce Old Greenwich, Connecficuf 
'47 HELP THAT NEW MAN Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
J. Dean Owen 2709 Morton 
Sf. Joseph, Mich. 49085 
'48 WE WANT TO KEEP YOU 
FROM "OOPS" Thanks to a few bits of informotion forwarded to me by the Alumni Office we will hove some­thing to put in the next issue regarding the Class of '48. 
At the awards luncheon for the National Foundation and Holl of Fame, GEORGE CON­NOR introduced the master of ceremonies ZIGGY CZAROB5KI. In presenting Zig the assembly was told that this poor Polish boy was on All-Americon for the IRISH and was the only student to take English as a foreign lan­guage. Then Zig took over and in his usual style floored them all with the King's English. 
WILLIAM STOLZE has been appointed head of the humanities deportment of the Syracuse 
U. Library. ROBERT H. LYONS has moved to Millburn, NJ. , and is now General Mgr. of Vincent Brass & Aluminum Co. m Union, NJ. GEORGE BURNS who is controller of the Lorillard Corp. has been accepted as on ac­tive member of the Financial Executives Insti­tute. TOM BROGAN has joined Northern Hard­wood and Pine Manufacturers Assoc, as their Exec. V.P. He was formerly regional mgr. for the American Forest Institute. The Brogan fam­ily of seven boys and o girl will reside in Green Bay. 
ED AYLWARD wrote directly to me. My only ND mail call in more than a month. Ed writes that RUSS FARRELL's father-in-law passed owoy early in November. Ed expected to see JOHN TRAVE from Des Moines in K.C. in the near future. John missed our reunion due to the illness of his mother who has since passed away. 
TOM CARLIN has moved to Indianapolis. 
BOB McSHANE is now in St. Joseph, Mo. 
GERRY EVERT has moved from Chattanooga to 
Houston. CHARLIE MELIA has moved from Den­
ver to Pork Ridge, III. 
Not much else to say but this bit of informa­
tion will keep us from being "oopsed." As you 
con see we need information to keep the col­
umn going. We ore dry for the next edition 
so we are appealing for some words of wis­
dom, etc., no great manuscripts ore required, 
just a paragraph or two. 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
George J. Keenon 
177 Rolling Hills Rood C/iflon, New Jersey 07013 
'49 A SHORT SAYING? Remember, send in those yellow cords. Leo L. Wesley 755 Driftwood lone Rochester, N.f. U617 
'SO LONG AGO . . . 
AND FAR AWAY 
May you oil have had a Holy Christmas sea­
son and a Happy New Year. 

While at the regional meeting of the Alumni Senate in Jacbonville, I sow ROY DEEB, St. Petersburg, who is in charge of the Recruiting Committee in his area for students applying to the University and is active in many areas of local civic work. DICK and Margaret BRODEUR and their family ore doing well in Jacksonville. Dick has the Lobry-Brodeur Co., wholesale food distributors. The GERRY JOHNSONs and their eight children ore happy in Jacksonville. Gerry is Branch Mgr. of Johnson Service Co. DICK REPPER is with Southern Bell there. Gerry Ramsberger is teaching on the Clearwater campus of the St. Petersburg Junior Col and Gene Bittner is in administration with the Board of Public Instruction in St. Petersburg. 
PAUL OWENS is doing well in his Chevrolet dealership in Brunswick, Go. JOE JUDGE is doing well in Charleston, SC. Hod o very nice visit with ED and Barbara KELLY [General Bandages, Inc., Chicago) who were in the Miami area on vocation. Ed was my best man and he and his wife Barbara ore as fine as ever. Mary Pat and I hod o wonderful remi­niscent evening with TERRY and Kel BRENNAN here. They both are as perfect as they always hove been. Terry is with BIyth and Co., stock brokers and corporate investors, in Milwaukee. 
GENE CAMPANELE is Assist Director for Ele­mentary and Secondary Research, OER. Copt 
GEORGE JONES Jr. is now sioliontd at Havre Air Force Station, Mont., in th* aerospace defense command, having previously com* from Thailand. BILL MILLER reports from South Bend that he married Mary Hurslel in 1954; they hove four children, and he is with the CIBA Pharmaceutical and visits the Campus often. TONY PANZICA, wife Irene and six sons (one set of twins) and one girl resid* in South Bend. Tony is in his 14th year of prac­tice in architecture in South Bend, one af his projects being the one and three quarter mil­lion Comprehensive Mental Retardation Center located of the corner of Eddy and Napoleon, iust south of the Campus. JOHN McLAIN, Mc­Lean, Vo., deserted the bachelor ranks last March. He is Director of Ateteriols, Melpor, Inc., Falls Church, Vo. 
PAUL (Mack) and Nora SCHAEFFER and their seven ore fine, basking in the Florida sun. Mike O'Neill, the Florida State Road Board Chairman and President of the General Tire Co. of Miami, Inc., was the Chairman of the Southern Division of the Rockefeller Presidential Campaign and has turned dawn the position of Lt. Governor of Florida, and will keep his present position. We ore pleased to have Presi­dent Nixon staying ot Key Biscoyne where he has so often stayed at a Mockle-owncd hotel (ND Board of Trustees member). Mary Pat and I have o cruising houseboat docked at Key Biscoyne and her only complaint so far is her eyestrain, looking through the binoculars at the courier-carrying Air Force helicopters which land about 100 yards owoy from us for President Nixon. While in Mogee Valley, NC, on vocation. Mock Schaelfer heard many good things about DICK FRANKEL and Rev. DON KUNKEL (Missionary in Syhro, N Q who is now in Arkansas. 
Our Miami Club enjoyed having luncheon at 
our Miami Four Ambassadors Hotel with Aro 
Porseghion, John Ray, Tom Pogna, and players 
Bob Glodieux, Tim Monty, Jim Seymour, Ron 
Dushney, Coley O'Brien. 
As you con see most of the news this time 
is "local." Please let me hear from you. 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
John W. TAomlon 
4400 Monserrote St. Coraf Gables, Fla. 33146 

'51 NO COLUMN-NO READERS Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
James Jennings 
Borg-Womer Corp. 
200 S. Michigan Ave. Chicago, li'f. d0d04 

'52 BILL'S BIG BACK YARD WILLIAM B. GRAHAM is back in Overland Pork, Kon., after having toured the country. When Bill left in '52, he went into the Navy OS o live officer. After successful careers with Procter & Gamble (he never lost o contest), 
O. E. Mclntyre, Inc. of NYC and Grolier, Inc. NYC, Bill is now with George S. May, Inter­national as an executive analyst. He operates east of the Rockies, in Canada, and in Free Europe which takes in a nice piece of real estate. Billy boy broke down in '62 and mar­ried a sweetie from the southland. They hove two children, Mary Anne (5) and Bill Jr (2). And Chicago is still cold in Jonuary. 
Never a dull moment in the life of our BILL SANTINI JR. Bill's original company, Pitts­burgh Materials & Chemicals Corp., was on the verge of really exploding profit-wise. He and his three partners were going full steam ahead in the manufacture and sole of silicon for the semi-conductor industry. This post February, lire wiped out the complete business leaving all bankrupt. But for a guy like Bill who doesn't know how to quit, it wos simply another chal­lenge. Immediately, Phoenix Materials Corp. wos founded. They are now seven months old and showing a profit. They hope to go public 

He^s MetlO'ing It 
Jim Mello has found his niche. 
with their stock by spring of '69. It was a very difficvlt siiuat'ion to come through but they made it and ore now doing well. Anyone who con scale walls like Bill con olwoys moke a pretty good living. 
WILLIAM BURKE LEWIS dropped a line to let us know he is with the law firm of Hirsch-berg, Pettempill & Strong practicing in scenic Greenwich, Conn. Bill served three years in the U.S. Air Force as a 1st It. in Germany. He graduated from Yole Low School in "58. He is now married with four children—a girl and three boys. JACK LAMBERT, also a •52er, is in practice with Bill. 
GER CASHMAN on a tour of the South and For West writes in from Dallas that PAT BUELL is the youngest V.P. in the history of the BUELL CO., INC. Pat has seven children and takes the Brood Hollow Country Club golf course opart every time he ploys. He still is 0 hot man with the cue too — signs of o mis­spent youth. DICK HERMAN '53 wanted to hear from HAL FINCH. Hoi is cooch at St. Joseph High here in South Bend. They hove hod some great teams come out of there the post few years. No doubt Hal is doing his bit. 
JOHN R. MOHAR has been promoted to odvertising and soles promotion mgr. for Cities Service Oil Company's southern morketing re­gion based in Atlanta, He is responsible for implementing and developing advertising ond 
24 
DOES the world look a little grey 
today? Jim Mello, star fullback of 
Frank leahy's '46 unbeaten Irish, 
has a sure cure. Mello, physical 
education director at Mansfield 
State Training Center for the handi­
capped in Connecticut, recalls the 
day he joined the ranks of the 
optimists. 

When Jim began his work at Mansfield a new admission policy was in effect. Formerly the courts used to commit delinquents to the school. They were big and tough, and not mentally handicapped. And they mode good football teams! "When I came here, he said, "de­linquents were being sent elsewhere, the material was gone but there were still a couple of rough games on our schedule. We lost the first one 70-0. When one of the kids saw my gloom he couldn't under­stand it. 'Gee, Mr. Mello,' he said, 'at least we won the toss.' Can't beat that for optimism." 
Mello lived in South Bend for 10 years after his ND and professional football days were over. He played with the Boston Yonks, Los Angeles Rams and Detroit Lions, taught and was in business before taking up his work with the mentally retarded. Describing his first visit to Mansfield, Mello said "I sow this big, welU equiped gymnasium but there was no one in it. And I asked 'why?' 
promotions programs throughout the region of 10 stotes. He moves to Atlonto from Tulsa where he was CITGO's outdoor od supervisor since 1965. 
COL. MALHAM M. WAKIN has arrived for duty at the USAF Academy. He is serving as prof, and head of the Dept. of Philosophy and Fine Arts after being stationed in Ton Son, Nhut, Vietnam. 
LOUIS J. POLMAN is oppointed superin­tendent of basic steel maintenance at the Indiana Harbor Works of the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co. 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
William B. King 
613 E. Donmoyer Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 46614 

'53 HUNTING FOR HUNTSVILLE 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
W. F. "Bud" Sluhldreher 
71006 Jean Rd. S.e. 
Hunlsville. Ala. 35803 

'54 CALLING ALL GOOD GUYS Now is the time for all good classmates to start seriously plonning for our 15-year Reunion in June. Get with it! With the new $1.00 — onywhere, Saturday telephone rotes, it costs next to nothing to coll an old roomie or dis­
The salary scale gave me one 
reason, but I still wanted to know 
why these kids had been neglected. 
We talked it over and I decided to' 
try the job for a few weeks or 
months. I've been there ever since." 
There are big benefits for re­tarded children in competitive sports, according to Mello. "It's on outlet," he explains. "Anyone with a handicap con become frustrated and overly oggresive. Sports provide a good safety valve, a way to blow off steam." 
One ND "homecoming" Mello will not forget took place in Stepon Center lost July. A 15-member Mansfield bond performed here on their way to a special concert to be given for Chicago's Mayor Daley. The musicians, all blind or mentally retarded, were accompanying the athletic group from Mansfield who were to take part in special Olym­pics in Soldier Held. 

When the band was setting up in Stepan Center, Mello clowned around and even sang a song. His performance was slightly different than his lost one on the Campus. Instead of the 57,000 that watched him on the football field, there were only a couple of hundred that heard an amazing group of young people. 
Somehow or other you hove to think that Mello's victories now are much more important. 
tant buddy and make o dote to meet under the Dome. PETE SCHWENK, who ot this writ­ing is skiing in Colorado, will be there (if his bones heal) and he threatens to bring JOE MALONEY. I'm sure JERRY FINNEY will be there too. If we're fortunote, RICHARD ROSSI will have departed by Reunion time to wher­ever young liberal reformists go during the summer. 
How obout some of you guys dropping o line or two to CHARLIE SPICKA who's on a tour of duty sightseeing from high above the Viet­cong supply lines. His address is Major CHARLIE F. SPICKA, Box 148, CMR I5th SOS, APO San Francisco, Calif. 96304. Ron into BOB CHICKEY and HERM KRIEGSHAUSER at the N.D.-St. Louis U. basketball gome. The Irish looked rogged on defense but my hat's off to Coach Dee ond the job he's doing. 
Well I guess it's safe to assume since haven't hod a call as yet that I'm not going to get on appointment to President (Dick — to his close friends) Nixon's staff. Other career news worthy of note: BILL FAIMON, a Nash­ville attorney, wos appointed sec-treasurer of Color Productions, Inc., o new publishing Co. JOE MUHLHERR wos promoted to Army Lt. Col. white assigned to the Joint Chiefs of Staff at the Pentagon. MARK McCABE is quality-control mgr., a new position with General Motors steering gear division. PHIL DOELL 
has been named o unit supervisor, industrial bailer performance sec., at Bobcock & Wil­cox Co.'s power generation div., Barberton, Ohio. TOM SCHWIETZ has been promoted to Lt. Col. U.S.A.F. He's with S.A.C. at OfFutt Air Base, Nebraska. Moj. BILL JACKOMIS is at­tending Armed Forces Staff Col at Norfolk, Va. AAARSHAIL KINNEY has been promoted to Mgr. Corporate Labor Relations, Crucible Steel Corp. PAT FOLEY is practicing law in Dayton, Ohio, and TOM GRIFFIN has joined the lawyers Co-operative Publishing Co. as an associate editor. Tom has just returned from o year in Vietnam as one of the Navy's first field historians. 
Yellow card news: GEORGE KOCH and family 
have moved twice this past year, from Mt. 
Prospect to Elmhurst, III., to Troy, Mich. 
George is sales mgr. for Vickers Mobile Div. of 
Sperry Rand. The KOCHs had their sixth child, 
second lioy lost June. George plans on attend­
ing our June Reunion. PHIL ZURLO, MD, is 
practicing urology in Glens Falls, NY (10 
minutes from Lake George). Phil and Sylvia 
have four boys and a girl, and have extended 
the welcome mat to all '54ers traveling through 
the north way to Canada. LEX "The BIG A" 
PETRILLO, another of the good guys who'll be 
bock for our 15th, is married and has two boys 
ond two girls. Lex writes once every 15 years 
end doesn't even soy what he does for a living. 
Nice going! The Big A lives in JOE Di-
PINTO's (good old Joe) home town — Wil­
mington, Del. JIM CORCORAN and his wife 
Kay (SMC '56) have six little ones and hang 
out in Evonston, III. Jim leods his own low firm. 
Corcoran & Corcoran, and has kept busy writ­
ing and speaking. He's just co-authored Draft* 
ing Will ond Trust Agreements in Illinois, and 
is editor of the Probate and Trust Law See. 
of The ;//. Bar Journal. PAT and DICK HAM­
MER expected number four in December after 
having two girls and a boy previously. Dick is 
head of the dept. of accounting results witli 
Western Electric Co. in NYC and earned his 
master's degree in business administration from 
NYU last June. He's another of the good guys 
coming bock in June. FRANK McGINN '52 U 
running for Alumni Association Director. He 
works in real estate and is brother to our 
JOHN McGINN from Pompano Beach, Flo. So 
he's gotta be another good guy. 
Were I dever or talented, I'd create some* 
thing hilariously funny to conclude this article* 
But— 
Eemember, send in those yellow cards. 
Miiton J. Beoudine 
21 Signol Hill Blvd. 
Cost St. louis, llf. 62203 

'55 COLOR IT YELLOW 
Let's start out with o botch of those yellow cords yoo guys have returned in recent months. Keep 'em coming and we'll hear from eveiy­one by "70. PETE GAhJTERT reported in from 103 W . Montrose Ave. in South Orange, NJ. , the first word from him in 13 years. Pete spent five years traveling around the western hemi­sphere for Anocondo, but now is with the in­vestment banking house of Wood, Struthers & Winlhrop as a transportation analyst. He and Mary Lou have one daughter, now three. BlU. RELPH ("another prodigal after 13 years") now is production control mgr. for Kaiser Steel. Al­though now living in Cal. (342 E. Home. Rialto), "the smog ond the mist migration to California hove Rnally gotten to me and we're currently trying to relocate in the Denver areo." Bill adds that he and Diane ("whom I met while working in the kitchen ol 9 . Mary's with DICK RUTLEOGE") hove m children. 
BOB GAHL also brought me up to dote via o yellow cord. "After my architectural degree from NO. I went on to receive o BS in meteor­ology at Penn State. After seven years with 
Miller & Waltz Architects in Milwaukee, I was 
made an associate this June." Bob, Mary 
Ann and the three children live in a home he 
designed six years ago at 2059 S. 104th St., 
West Allis, Wis., where he is a member of 
the Board of Appeals. NOEL KINDT recently 
moved from South Bend to 704 Caroline Court. 
Deerfield, III. Noel is on opplicotion engineer 
for Cozzens & Cudohy, Inc., on electronics 
manufacturer. He has three girls, 12, 9 and 6. 
Noel would very much like to hear from BlU 
LEONARD and CHUCK REAGAN, So would II 
Incidentally, Noel got his MS in electrical engi­
neering from ND in 1965. TOM KEWLEY (7337­
A South Shore Dr., Chicago), who is president 
of Toley Fobricoted Products Co., has been 
appointed chairman of DePoul U. Finance Dept. 
MIKE WARD is pr director for loyolo of Oii* 
Cogo's centennial celebration, 
OWEN DUGAN writes that he spent lv»o 
years in the Navy after graduation, then five 
years with Bethlehem Steel and the last five 
years as a marketing representative ia the 
Data Processing Division of IBM. He and Liz 
live in Wellesley Hills, Moss. (23 Jackson Rd.) 
and have three sons, 7, 5 and 2. If you're in 
Dennisport on Cape Cod during the summer, 
give Owen a call. It's worth at least one free 
drink. LEO CALLAGHAN is a soles rep for 
American Cyonomid Co. in Baltimore (215 
Overbrook Rd.|. Leo spent three and a half 
years in the FBI as a special agent, but the 
constant traveling and seven-day weeks and 
three children "guided my decision to a more 
Comfortable and lucrative area." Leo reports 
that DONN DUFFY is sales mgr. for WC6M in 
Baltimore. 
ALDO POnEni [9 Boxwood Rd., Port Wash­ington, NY) is a sixth-grade teacher in the North Babylon, Long Island, public schools. He added that European trips in '60 and '64 were most enjoyable. DAVE DISCHER (9914 Garden Grove, Northridge, Col.) checked in shortly after I had written the column men­tioning that he was doing research on lung diseases. Dave and Mary now have four boys and two girls. Dave would like to hear from two of his long-lost buddies — FRED WHITFIELD and JOHN O'BRIEN. TOM BARNICLE (1733 
N . Natoma, Chicago) and Maureen welcomed their second daughter this past summer. Tom is Still with Foodmaker. 
leading the reports from around the globe is Rev. JOE O'DONNELL, who b serving as chaplain in Southeast Asia for a number ot ships and a battalion of Morines from the helicopter carrier, Tripoli. 
AL ALVAREZ sent a beautiful brochure on his Jiquilisco Fishing Club in San Salvador (Edificio Mogono No. 60, San Salvador, El Salvador, C.A.). "For those who wont to spend a few days of real tranquility in an informol ond comfortable atmosphere, enjoying the beautiful view and beaches, the good food, and especially doing some wonderful fishing (stop it, Al, you're killing me), Jiquilisco is the place to come. Any ND '55 grod who is daring and will risk o trip to this part of the world (wait a minute, Al, what do you mean by that?) will get a large discount besides o hearty welcome!" 
JOE MADIGAN writes: "Reading the cur­rent ALUMNUS revealed news that yoo have adopted one David Clifford. Well, I'm four years oheod of you with our David Housser. Two years ahead of him is Terence Joseph, and both are cheerfully disposed linebackers of the future." Only last-minute family illness pre­vented Joe from making the Reunion. At this point it looks like the USC game will be our reunion date in '69. Think positive! 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
Paul Fullmer 1922 lorkdole Drive 
Clenviev, III. 6002S 

'56 HE SPECIALIZES IN 
MURDER CASES AND 
BEAUTY QUEENS! 

Another happy holiday seoson is fa post as 
and to eveiyaiw — best widies for a holy and 
happy New Year, hfhop* W9 will faring an 
end to the Vielnamcsa conSd and o slip to­
ward world peace. 
Recehred a most intireiling noia hom DIOC 
SHILLER, who specializes in trial woric (un­
defeated in three murder coses) in the firm of 
Goldsmith, Oyer. Tbelin & Shilltr in Aurora. 
III. Dick is not only still a bachelor, but is very invohred in the Miss America Pageant program. He is a post cxccuthre director of the Miss Illinois Pagcont and is that stote's executne producer for 1968 and 1969. Prof. leonord Sommer, our debate coach, was one of the judges at the Illinois Pageant this year. DICK BARTSCH, also practicing low in Av­
roro. III,, is a partner in the firm of Ruddy, 
Myler and Bortsch and was Democratic can­
didate for circuit judge in their county. 
JOHN M. KENNEDY, prei. of the Manhattan 
Young Republican Club, was in Buffalo at their 
state convention and sipped a few with Ed 
Ougrove. John is a lawyer doing SEC work 
out of NYC 
WALTER S. McNAMARA hos been appointed mgr. of audit for Womoco Inc . sportswear manufacturers and packagers. 
W . PATRICK SNYDER has been promoted to director of production control fbr Cunoins Bigine Co., Columbus, Ind. 
Maj. FREDERIC A. DeVOE JR b one of soas 
245 select government olfidals and officers ftom 
US and allied armed forces enrolled in the 
USAF Air Col. at Maxwell AFB, Ala. 
JAMES E. MACK has been appointed mgr. of 
the St. Paul factory branch of Clark Equipment 
Company's trailer div. in Michigan Cty, Ind. 
JAMES H. HOWELL hos been named on ossoc 
member of the firm of Alden B. Oow Associates, 
architects. 
DALE "ED" WHITE dropped a line to soy 
that he is working on his PhD in Government at 
ND and that ED SEXAUER is now located in 
Montgomery, Ala., with a TV-rodio station. 
JOE BILL writes from Indianapolis, Ind.. that 
he saw a very trim MIKE KILEY a while bock. 
Joe works for Steel Ports Corp., a subsidiary of 
Internotionol Silver and he and hb wife. Grace 
now hove four children. 
JIM FISHER b still practicing law in Kings­
ton. NY, and is on assistant dist. otty. for 
Ulster County. Jim and his wife also have four 
children now. ERNIE MURATA keeps in touch 
with Jim, and Ernie is cashier for the Hrst 
National Bonk of Honolulu. 
PAUL RENSTROM has been appointed mgr. 
and osst. vice-pres. of the Burlingame main 
office of the Wells Forgo Bank. Paul ond his 
wife Nancy live in Menio Park, Calif. 
Dr. ROBERT I. LECHOWSKI recently an­nounced the opening of his practice in internal medicine in Elmhurst, 111., after spending seven years with the U.S. Air Force. Bob would like to hear from ED KSENIAK and others of our Ooss whom he knew. 
THOMAS E JAEB has been elected to the council of administration of the AAinnesota Bankers Ass'n for a three-year term. 
JOE CLINE wos married in Chicago Sept. 19 to Lois Wagner. Joe and hb bride ore now living in Son Francisco. MARK BURNS was best man at the wedding. 
Finally, after a very spirited compoign. your secretary was defeated in his bid fbr Congress in the 40th District of NY. It was certainly a memorable experience and one in which I came to appreciate the problems of exerting leader­ship in our government. 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
Eugene O'Connor-Cosgrove i O'Connor 656 Ellicott Sq. BIdg. 
Buffalo, NY 14203 


'57 HERE'S TO A SWINGING CLASS 
Rrsf may I wish oil of the Class of '57 o happy and peaceful New Year. Thank you oil for the support given the column in *68 and I hope we can produce a better column in *69. 
PAUL BYRON hos recently token o position with G. D. Searle & Co. in Chicago os Asst. Corp Controller with the Domestic Divi­sion. Good luck, Paul. 
in the Christmas season we always look forward to the TOM and Peg CORRIGAN card and sure enough, true to their tradition, the family portrait contains an oddition to last year's crop. Congratulations to the CORRI­GANS on the October addition of number eight child, a boy. They must be the Class leader now. 
CHUCK ZUSAK has arrived in Chicago from Nashville, Tenn. Chuck is o prof, in the Pol Sci Dept ot Loyola U. Chuck received his master's from ND and his PhD from Maryland U., from there to a position as ossoc. prof, in Pol Sci at U. of Tenn. for two years. Chuck also does consulting work for the local govern­mental bodies. 
We had a great visit with TOM HUGHES in November when he come from the rain forest of Portland, Ore., to the "sunny blue skies" of Chicogo ond South Bend. Tom came in with his wife, Noncy, and their two lovely children for a convention of the Nat'l Cement Pipe Mfrs. Tom is on owner of Turmoc, Inc., in Portland which monufoctures concrete products machinery. Tom was in touch with PAT SNY­DER in Oconomowoc, Wis., and had a night or two out with PAT SHEERIN, BOB COYNE, and this writer. (Oh my heod!) Tom reports that BOB BERSCHINSKI and TOM HALEY ore maintaining the Class traditions in Portland. 
I hove a correction to moke in regard to TERRY CROWLEY. Terry is leaving the Chicogo Public Library Survey in January when he'll take a position with the Library Science Dept. at the U of III. in Chompoign where he'll be acting in o consultant researching capacity. Good luck, Terry. 
Also, recently learned that DAN BERGEN is on leave from his position as Chairman of the Depf. of Lib. Sci. at U. of Miss, and is pres­ently at U. of Minn, working on an advanced degree in Amer. Studies. TOM JEWELL occepted a position with the Louisville Courier to be head of the Indiana news bureau. 
V.P. BILL McGOWAN reports that he had had contact in the Indianapolis region with Drs. BILL HOLLAND ond PAT LOGAN ond banker DON STUHLDREHER. Bill met up with a few other classmates ofter the Okla. game, obtaining some refreshment at the Morris Inn. Included were AL DANT, BILL BARTLING, MATT WEISS and HANK LUEPKE. The next week he bought a round for PETE SHAGNEY, BOB LONCARICK, JOHN HAMMEH, JOHN CU­SACK, JIM MUNRO, BILL MOONEY, JIM MORTON, JOE RINK and FRANK HENNESSEY. 
JOHN SLEVIN and his wife, Mory, were in Chicago for a recent legal seminar and had a chance to spend some time together between sessions. JOHN is specializing in trial work in Peoria along with raising six children. 
Received a cord from JIM QUINN, MD, who is the senior officer on the battleship New Jersey off the DMZ in Vietnam. Jim is the father of four children and invites anyone in the locale to drop by and visit. I suppose a helicopter would be the best way. Swimming is discouraged. Thanks, Jim, 1 hope the next cord is postmarked U.S.A. 
LEN DIGIACOMO has moved to Elk Grove Village, III., from Salt Lake City, where he is GM for D. H. OVERMEYER CO., a notional leasing firm. Len osb the whereabouts of TOM FITZSIMMONS. 

Our condolences and proyers to the family of Robert H. Mooney, father of AL MOONEY, who died in November. 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
George W. Grobfe 
Iff W. Woshinglon St. 
Chicago, Illinois 6O602 
'58 SYMPATHY TO THE WIEDEMANN FAMILY 
Our sincere sympathy is extended to the widow 
ond family of WILLIAM W. WIEDEMANN, JR. 
who died Sept. 8 of Hodgklns disease. Pleose 
remember him as well as our other deceased 
classmates in your prayers. 
WALTER "DOC" SCHNEBLE is now living in 
St. Louis, having been transferred there in 
Sept. Walt, who is with Corning Gloss, re­
ports that HENRY DiRUSCIO and family live 
about five miles away ond that Henry is no­
tional soles mgr. for Sherwood Med. In., o 
subsidiary of Brunswick. 
Mr. a, Mrs. ROGER C. TOUGAS onnounced 
the birth of their third child and first son, Roger 
Clarence, Sept 24. 
ED lANNI is enrolled in III. State U complet­
ing course work on a doctorate in educational 
administration, where coincidentolly he is a 
student of Dr. RAYMOND SCHMITT, en ND 
classmate. 
JAMES C. ESCH, MD, is now serving in Viet­
nam with the 1 Med. Bn., 1 Mar. Div. near 
DoNong. His wife Diontha and three children 
are living in San Diego. 
DR. WALT HUURMAN and spouse are in Cok­
lond. Col. and DR. PAT HOGAN and family an 
in Dearborn, Mich. 
RICHARD Di CAMILLO is also in Viehiom fly­
ing air rescue missions, following flight training 
ot Eglin A.F.B. His wife and three daughters 
are slaying in Schenectady. 
REV. HARRY CRONIN CSC received his PhD. from the U. of Minn, in drama lost June. He is now playwright in residence at the 0 . of Porf­lond. 
CAPTAIN JOHN T. PICKEN is completing a two-year tour in the Army and is assigned to the Dept. of Obstetrics and Gynecology at the 
U.S. Hosp., Ft. Devens, Md. Upon his comple­tion of his service tour, John and his fomily plan to return to Chicago. 
CHUCK AHERN has been transferred to the Bendix offices in Sidney, NY, after eight years with the Bendix Research Lobs in Southfield, Mich. Chuck is married and has two daughters. 
HAROLD F. ENRIGHT, JR. has been promoted fo branch mgr. in the Santa Monica IBM office. 
N. P. BARTOLINI has been promoted to mgr., overseas programs, central product planning, for Ford. 
JAMES F. ENGLEHART has been advanced fo product planning associate. North Americon product programs, central product planning of­fice, design center. Ford. 
CAPT. THOMAS L. TRACE has received the USAF commendation medal ot Roanoke Rapids AF Station, N.C. Copt. Trace, who has been selected for promotion to Major, was decorated for meritorious service. He is now assigned at Roanoke Rapids with the Aerospace Defense Command. 
Army Dr. CAPT. FRANK M. PUGLIESE JR com­pleted the medical service officer basic course ot Brooke Army Medical Center, Ft. Sam Hous­ton. 
JOSEPH P. BURNS is the new products mgr. for the Buffalo-based specialty frozen foods pro­ducer—Rich Products. 
LEW SOLOMON is the new mgr. of the Brunswig Drug Co.'s Fresno Div. The compony services retail ond hospital pharmacies in cen­tral California. 
REV. ROBERT T. DEVINE OSES, former high-scoring basketball coptoin of ND has been ap­pointed admissions counselor ot Allentown, Colorado of St. Francis de Soles. 
The U. of Colorado Medical Center announces the promotion of DR. JOHN C. SELNER to assist, clinicol prof, of pediatrics. 
JIM BRUNOT did Army service ond then taught languages ot Woodbury Forest in Virginia. 
He completed his master's in languages ot Mld­
dlebury Col., Vt. and the U. of Virginia. Did 
work toward doctorate in languages at the U. of 
Pittsburgh ond lived for a couple of years in 
Spain. Worked as social worker in Oakland, 
Col. Presently he is planning o leove to live 
ond write in Mexico. He is unmarried. 
ROBERT U OWEN, operations research ana­
lyst, is the Air Force nominee for the William 
A. Jump Award. The award is given to the Federal employee who has given outstanding service in the field of public administration. THOMAS M. SWEENEY has been oppolnted 
product/advertising mgr. of Ethical and Diag­
nostic products in the Wompole Laboratories Div. 
of Denver Chemical. 
HANK ZANG and family ore still in Bloom­
ington. III., where Honk is with Massachusetts 
Mutual. Honk reports JOHN VECHAZONE is the 
new Ward's mgr. in Bloomlnglon and DAN 
KELEHER is the Bloomington mgr. for Cardinal 
Outdoors. 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. Arthur L Route, Jr. 
702 *•;•• Street 
LaPorle, Indiana 46350 


<59 BETHLEHEM — 1969 
DANIEL J. CROSSEN, JR. was appointed soles-Rian in Bethlehem Steel's Buffolo district. He was transferred from salesman in forglngs, costing and special products ot the home office. Don's new oddress is 7 Mt. Airy Road, Orchard Pork, NY (14127). ROBERT A. PUTNAM hos joined 
J. S. Strouss and Co. os finonciol analyst, and will work out of the firm's Son Francisco office. Bob was previously with Hexcel, Inc. FRED KLEIDERER has been promoted to vlce-pres. of the Market Research Corp. of America. ED­WARD T. HURLEY has been appointed ass't prof, of English at the U. of Colorado. 
The only clue to the Boston mystery letter (re: JOHN BELLAIRS) was on unsigned post­card, which arrived during the Christmas holi­days and which stated, "I am happy to report that the saintly CHARLIE BOWEN is olive and fulfilling the duties of a sheep herdsmon in Bethlehem, lowo." Dr. PETER BARNES has joined the teaching staff of Cornegle-Mellon 
U. as assoc. prof. Pete has been ot the Los Alamos scientific lab. since 1966 doing post­doctoral reseorch. JOHN PETER MORAN has become associated with Charles R. Johnson in the general practice of low under the firm name of Johnson and Moron. "J.P." is also the pres. of the ND Club of Phoenix. 
DENNIS J. CARROLL was recently promoted to Moj., USA. Dennis was stationed ot Ft. Bliss, Texas and departed in August for his second tour in Vietnam. BILL KOCH is o civilion em­ployee for Wright-Patterson AFB, Doyton, as a project engineer working on F-111 hydroulic and pneumatic systems. Bill's wife Borbora is o after six moves in as many years of morrioge. Dayton girl and they hove three children, Jenni­fer, Justino and Joseph. The urge to see his nome in print again prompted PAT KEATING to report He is settled in Glen Ellyn, III. (we'll check with JOE MAIER on this point), is anxious to see JIM COONEY, and he sow JOHN FAZIO in Calif, in August. 
THOMAS J. ECKRICH is now mgr. of planning services for Peter Eckrich and Sons, Inc. Tom has held various soles and operotions po­sitions in the seven years with the co., and lives with his wife and five children in Ft. Wayne. WILLIAM F. REILLY has been ap­pointed Ass't Finance Administrotor of NYC. He is currently on leave of absence from his permonent employer, W. R. Grace and Co. JAMES W. KEENAN was recently named property underwriting mgr. for Crum and Foster Insurance Co. 1 visited briefly with RICH BOUND during holftlme of the ND­UK game in Louisville on Dec. 28. Rich will 

lead the Ky delegation bock to Campus for the June Reunion. Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
Joseph P. Mulligan Admissions Office Notre Dome, Indiana 465SS 

'60 TOM'S POETRY NO SHOW Remember, send in those yellow cards. Thomas J. O'Conne/l 3350 Everett Rd. 
lake Forest, III. 6004S 

•60L POGO-GET ON THE STICK 
TOM ERBS writes thot the firm of Erbs and Erbs removed its offices to the Title Guaranty BIdg., 705 Chestnut St., St. Louis 63101. 
An incomplete set of used, old Lawyer issues for anyone supplying information as to the whereabouts or doings of POGO REILLY. 
Each of you might start thinking of a possible 10-year Reunion for the fall of 1970, preferably on 0 football weekend. If there is ony good indicotion of interest, we con explore the pos­sibility of securing a block of football tickets. It is definitely not too early to begin prepara­tions now, the ticket demand being as it is. Please drop me a note if you are interested. 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
John A. OiNardo 721 ffinman Avenue Evonslon, Illinois 50202 


'61 COST IN THE SNOW? 
Remember, send in those yellow cards, 
William Henneghan 
30SS6 Scrivo Dr. Worren, Mich. 48092 



Congrats 

ROBERT K. WAGNER 'S3 has been named product manager, round sates sfocJc, in the Kop* 
pers Campany^s Forest Products Division^ Previous to this ap­pointment he was the director of pubic relations! for Koppers. He has been with Koppers since 1953. 
THEODORE J. WOIFE 'S7 has been appointed manager of marketing lor Welch Foods Inc. He had been with Procter & 
Gambfe for eight yeors before 
he joined Welch in 1967. 
JOHN r. MrSER '53 has been promoted to St. Paul branch manager for automotive reffnish 
trades in the Coated Abrasives division of the 3fA Company. He joined 3M in I9S8 and was marketing supervisor prior to this promotion. 
JOHN I . •fUVEAO '59 was elected Mayor of the city of 
lewiston, Maine, in November 
and took office on January 6, He is a partner in the lav/ Srm 
of Marshall, Raymond S SehVeoit. 
AUERT J. rERINI '61 was appointed as executive vice-pres­ident for Western Operations of 
the Perini Corporation and also elected to its Board of Directors. Prior to this he had been serving as senior vice-president and pro­ject manager for construction of 
the J?43,000,000 Yuba River Development in Colilomia. This project was the largest of its kind 
ever in the U.S. 
OAVID nUEN CSC '<$ was ordained to the priesthood on Dec. 2T in Saint John, N.B., Canada. He is studying at the University of Montreal and will graduate in June. 

'62 MEOW FOR 
PUSS 'N' BOOTS 
Here is the information which should hove 
appeared in the lost issue were it not for spoce 
limitations. 
DAVE WITCHGER has joined Eli Lilly and 
Co. OS a soles representative in Hays, Kansas. 
The Quaker Oats Co. hos promoted STEVE 
DEE from assist, brand mgr., cot foods to 
brand mgr., cat foods. He will have market­
ing responsibility for projects dealing with 
Quaker's Puss 'n' Boots brand. Honest AL SMITH 
has been appointed as assist, sec. in the no­
tional div. of the Chemicol Bonk New York 
Trust Co. Saw "Big Al" in Philodelphia recent­
ly and he looked prosperous to say the least. 
CARL HOUCK received his MS in Civil Engi­neering from the U. of Colorado. BOB HAMIL­TON was elected to the board of directors of the Dumore Co., Racine, Wis. The company manufactures portable electric tools. BILL HUBER is presently a grod student at the U. of Cincinnati and received a teaching fellow­ship at ND. DICH HODDER completed the medical service officer basic course at Brooke Army Medical Center, R. Sam Houston, Texas. 
EDWARD JOHN SOEHNLEN left in Septem­ber for Italy where he is continuing his studies in organ and musicology at the Accademia Chigiono, Siena, and afterwards will resume his duties as organist-choirmaster ot the Church of S. Mario Assunto in Merono (South Tyrol). He has concertized in Italy and in West Ger­many and most recently was presented by the Associozione Itoto-Americona at Bologna in a special recital dedicated to the memory of the late Roberty Kennedy. This is a hard act to follow but PHIL DILLENBURGER is still selling sandwiches and milk in Alumni Holl every eve­ning at 10:00. Seriously, Phil is a supervisor in the production dept. of Kroger Co. and intends to enroll at Xovier U. in Cncinnati for his MBA. 
By now DAN KRALIK should be a husband. Don has moved to Tocomo, Wash., ond is currently supervisor of counselors and psycholo­gists in Pierce County, Washington. JOE BRAC­CO is employed as a probation officer with the 
San Francisco Juvenile Court, Joe recently be­came o daddy. PAUL SICA is presently serving a two-year hitch in the Navy as o medical officer ot Guonlonamo Bay, Cuba. DENNY BUTLER is a bailiff to the chief justice al the Cleveland Municipal Court. 
Heord from JIM MIKACICH who fust was presented with his second boy. Jim is heading 
o move to form a Socramento Valley-ND Ctub. He also reports that MIKE PRECOBB was married in September. 
Hod quite a turnout of classmates at our Washington Alumni December luncheon to hear Rev. John Corrigan, heod of the local dis­senting priests, give his enlightening views with regard to the dispute with Cordinol O'Boyle. In attendance were CHRIS BUCKLEY, BRENDAN McCRANE, FERD RUEBENACKER, BILL HAMILTON, RAY RAEDAY, JIM MERCURIC. TOM JORLING, BILL SCANLON, BRIAN O'NEILL ond yours truly. 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
H.James Krauser 
8301 Garfield St. Bethesda, Maryland 20034 

'63 PARLE—WILL YOU TAKE THAT? 
TOM JOLIE writes from Catholic Relief Services, Casilla 2561, in La Paz, Bolivia, where he is serving as country director for Catholic Relief Services. He and wife Judy have two "ninos" now, Soroh ond Charlie. Tom recommends Bo­livia for an interesting vocation. 
JORGE H. URIBE, Architecture '63, writes from Medellin, Colombia, S.A., to report addi­tion of two girls in November, to bring his family total of offspring to four. LARRY SHUB­NELL writes from Annapolis, Md., that BOB BARTOLO and PAUL TSCHIRHART are living tn the Woshington, DX., area. Larry has been appointed budget director for o suburban Maryland government and lives in Annapolis. Bob lives and works in Virginia. He's with the transportation consultont thot did the mas­ter plan for Larry's government. Paul is a lawyer with the Maritime Commission in D.C. 
— lives in Va. They've formed a monthly gour­met (!?} club feoturing dinners from various countries. All ore married, oil have children. [Tschirhart a gourmet?) Thanks for the note, Larry. 
JOHN DABROWSKI starts work with the Army at Aberdeen in January, after finishing PhD work at Yale. He has two daughters, including a new one, Melissa Beth, born in October. John reports that Mike Del Monte hos finished with the Army, including a Viet tour, and is now working for Papa DuPont, living in "comfort­able surroundings" at Blackwood, N.J. Mike also became a proud papa of a girl, Grace Ann, in September. Congrats to both new fathers! 

DAVE FEDERICK writes to report his new location in Jacksonville, Flo. Dove's o dental officer in the Navy, serving aboard the U.S.S. Ye//owstone until June of 1970, at which time he's going to take a two-yeor residency in Prosfhodantics. Dave's address is Apt. 12, Les Chateoux Apts., 851 Bert Rd., Jacksonville. 
Letter from JACK V^ALKER brings news of the Boston oreo. KEVIN HART alive and well at BC law school, Jock reports, after coming down with on exotic disease in the South Pacific and having his Peace Corps tour cut short. TOM O'CONNOR living in Shaker Heights, O., no less. TOM SCHLERETH still in library in Chicago, doing research, at lost report. STANTON JOE BROV^N MD, finished in­ternship in Cambridge and is now advising ROK troops in scenic Koreo as a captain. DICK JAMES, expecting his third bambino, has been transferred to South Bend. KEVIN O'NEILL is peddling computers in Cleveland. STEVE McMAHON is involved in hard-core employment with American Airlines in NYC. JOHN CUNNINGHAM is expecting his third child in the spring, and is deon of odmission at Keene State Col. DICK KAVANAUGH is with the Seattle Repertory group, and has a baby daughter. (Dick married Myrno Walker, whom you may oil remember as the talented lead in many ND plays.) PARLE BLAKE is with the FBI in Monterey, working on languages. It's rumored he's taking English. PARLE sees BILL YALEY and wife in the SF area. J. R. FLEMING and JIM HUGHES are in Chicago raising dogs, children, and fortunes. BOB HELLRUNG. please write me and tell me if you won. Bob ran on the Repub­lican ticket in St. Louis this November. HANK WHITTEMORE has two published books and is hitting away at that first novel. Finally, Jock retired from the Marines in August and is pres­ently "wrestling with the devils" of first-year law at Harvard. Many thanks for the letter. 
Jack, and good luck. 
JOHN JOSEPH GARRITY received his M.S.­

M.E. from Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn in August. 
RALPH T. PASTORE is now leaching history at Memorial U. of Newfoundland. He is mar­ried and has two sons. 
Well, that's oil for this time. The cards and 
letters have slowed down, so please, if you 
would, write now. Just think, there might be 
somebody trying to find out where you live to 
pay bock a long overdue loon, or some old 
buddy living in the same town you live in and 
you don't know it. Use the ALUMNUS as a 
source of information about your friends, 
WRITE! 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
Thomos B. Hofopp 

3)27 Colonial Way, Apt. B Chomfa/ee, Ga, 30005 
'64 LEILANI—BEAUTIFUL 
DAVE JUSTIN completed Army duty as a captain and is now pursuing a MBA at De Paul (Chi­cago). JIM DRURY is working for Boeing in Seattle and is engaged to leilani Whittendale of Bellvue, Wash. JIM WEBSTER is a supply officer aboard the USS Chude Richefls. He was married last July to Marianne Bond of Pensocola, Flo. Also recently married is BOB RADELL. He and his wife, the former Margaret Wieder ore living in So. Bend while Bob completes his PhD at ND. JOHN CORRIGAN is with the NYC low firm of Willkie, Farr and Gallagher after graduating from St. John's Low School. MATT EBINGER is pursuing a MBA at the U. of Detroit. To return to school he took 
o leave of absence from Durkee Foods where he had been mgr. of sales administration. LOUIS MESTRE graduated from Marquette Law School and is practicing in Milwoukee for legal plan services. CHARLES BLANCHARD is a Lt (jg) aboard the USS Romsey in the Pacific. He is married to the former Patricia Corrigan. 
MICHAEL J. HEALEY has been named soles 
engineer with Union Carbide Corp. Dr. JOE 
La NASA JR graduated from LSU Med School 
June 1 and is now doing o rotating internship 
at Charity Hosp., New Orleans. GERALD A. 
NATHE has been appointed assistant to the 
director of planning at Log Etrontcs Inc. 
JOHN G. CHAPLIN CSC was ordained Oct. 12 
in St. Francis of Assisi Church, Clearfield, Pa. 
During the past four years he has been study­
ing at the Cotholic U. of Santiago and has 
been awarded a degree in theology there. 
THOMAS W. WUKOVITS JR is serving in the 
Novy OS o rodor officer in the F-4 Phantom Jet. 
He has hod two tours in Vietnam, and flown 
150 missions over North Vietnam. 
RICHARD E. PIKOR has been promoted to attorney in the group contract counseling dept. of Aetna Life and Casualty. 
TOM GERLACHER and his family (Joan, Tommy (2) and Gary (1)) are living in Columbus, Ohio where he is working for Lybrand Ross Bros. Tom received his MBA from Ohio State in March 1967 and passed the Ohio CPA exam in June 1968. 
PAUL EGAN is with the Los Angeles Low firm of Bells and Loomis after graduating from U of Illinois Low School. 
DENNIS PICKENS is a staff announcer at WBNS-TV (CBS) in Columbus, Ohio. He is married to the former Barbara MacKenzie of Richmond, Va. CHARLES HERZOG is o test engineer with the Hyatt Bearings Div. of Gen­eral Motors. He ond his wife Mary Jo hove four children. 
TOM SESSI is general mgr. of Tom's Express, a trucking firm in W. Va. JOHN KALI received a M.-ME from Villanova ond is employed by General Electric Re-Entry Systems, Volley Forge Pa. DON ESTERLING received his PhD in Physics from Brandeis U. and is asst prof at Indiana U. 
DALE LAMPS is on the actuarial staff of Sentry Insurance in Stevens Point, Wise. JOE THEBY is with a CPA firm in Evonsville, Ind. JOHN POELKER and PAT KENNEY are with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co [St. Louis and Colum­bus, Ohio). 
LEONARD KUBERSKI was ordained in May of this year. He is in the Archdiocese of Phila­delphia and has been ossigned to the St. John 
the Baptist Greek Cotholic Church in North­
hampton, Penn. ERNIE SCHUKRAFT received his 
MD. from Wayne State Medical School and is 
interning at William Beaumont Hosp in Royal 
Oak, Mich. Other new doctors are JOHN 
ANTUS who is interning at George Washing­
ton U Hosp-Washington D.C. ond MIKE COYLE 
who graduated from Columbia Medical School. 
He is interning in surgery. MIKE JOYCE is on 
the oudit staff to Touche, Ross in Pittsburgh. He 
ond his wife, Mary, hove two children. 
WALT GAMARD is a captain in the Army 
serving in Vietnam. He received his law degree 
from Tulone and is married to the former 
Poulette Crouere, SMC '65, 
New arrivals were recently welcomed by the 
PAUL ROSSMANs—a daughter Mary Lynn and 
the Bill Pfeiffers—0 daughter. Jill Elizabeth. 
RUSTY KANALEY is practicing law in NYC. He 
received his low degree from Syracuse and is 
now attending graduate law school ot NYU 
for a LLM in taxation. BOB CASEY is teaching 
in McHenry III. and studying part-time of 
Northern illinois U. He received his Master's 
in Guidance from Northern last August. 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
C/oy Stephens 
206 Marian Ave. 
Fanwood, New Jersey 07023 
[Please note my chonge of oddressj 
'65 TOO YOUNG TO RETIRE 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
Jomes P. Hornisch Apt. B 863 E. Gronvi7/e Rd. Columbus, Ohio 43224 
'65L TO A 3-YEAR-OLD 
— IT'S CONFETTI 
Here's hoping that Christmas at your home was 
a beautiful and festive day. 
Catching up on some news of Alums received 
between deadlines. 
Received a postcard from Carol and MIKE 
BISHKO from Italy. They hod toured o good 
deal of Europe—including Czechoslovakia just 
prior to the invasion. 
Heard briefly from the BOITELS. HENRY is 
enjoying his practice and the family is oil 
well. 
Enclosed with BILL BISH's Christmas card was a letter announcing his termination of duty with the Army recently. Bill is now with Gebbard, Hogue, Dwyer and Wilson and is presently studying for the Ohio Bar. Heir :^3 will prob­ably already be here by the time this article reaches everyone. Their address until March IS 1038 W. High St., Bryan, Ohio 43506. 
Also received a cord from the SOWERS but 
no news therein. Anyone heard from RON 
these days? 
Jan and I took our two older sons to only one game this year—Northwestern, ond looked into the Law BIdg. following and saw JOHN MULVIHILL. We chatted briefly—John is prac­ticing with a South Bend firm. The boys were excited—first game, you know, and John [age 
4) wanted to see all that could be seen. Bradley (age 3) was most excited about ploying with the thrown confetti ond streamersl That's 
life ... 
Keep all those cords and letters a coming! 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
John A. Houfer 
1050 Indiono 
Glenwood, III. 
'66 WHERE ARE YOU DICK? 
Remember, send in those yellow cords. 
Richard Ange/otti 8640 South a6th Ave., Apt. 203 Justice, III. 60458 
*66L COOKIE INVITES I received early Christmas cards from JIM HAKES, PAUL NIEMEYER, RAY STARMAN, and 



OM Words 
Verard A. Pottebaum '56 is dis­covering unique ways to communi­cate the Christian message to people of all ages in our modern society. As a nationally known author, edi­tor and scholar, he has recently scored several big breakthroughs in educational approaches to religion. 
"1029 Private Prayers for Wordly Christians," his latest book which was published in 1968 by Pflaum Press, is a unique prayer book for adults, enabling readers to put to­gether their own combination of prayers from scripture, photography and advertising copy. A prolific writer, Pottebaum wrote and directed the "Little People's Paperback" 
Jerry Pottebaum 
series, under "The Tree Touse" Inc., the "Witness" and "Discoverer" periodical series for young adults, and founded "The Cotechist," a monthly periodical for religion teachers. He is Education Editor of Herder & Herder, an international publishing house. 
The main thrust of Pottebaum's work involves an attempt to pre­sent the substance of theology in a new and creative form which different age groups will both bene­fit from and enjoy. Explaining the unique idea for hii new prayerbook, he soys, "The ideas put into that 


A New Way 
format are an application of what theology seems to be saying, plus the trouble people seem to be caving when they try to express a spirituality consistent with their ex­perience in the world today and their sense of who God is and their relationship with Him. 
Perhaps his greatest talent is his ability to reach small children with the message of Christ, through his series of "Little People's Paper­backs" and his experiments in creating on adequate education en­vironment within the classroom. 
"When you give a child a large box," the author-teacher explains, "he'll climb into it; if his friend is 
takes a new tack. 
close by he'll invite him inside. And when children play they arrange furniture to moke a place they can coll 'my house' and 'your house.' It's their way of arranging space so that they can bring the big world down to a size they can manage and learn to relate in. So the teach­ing environment is a big box where children can create their own worlds, to get a hold of the big one, or to create ones that don't exist for them. This all seems to be worth doing, particularly now that man is creating a world which is in turn creating a new man." 
AL McKENNA. Jim is now living ot 223 S. Ed­ward St., Mount Prospect, III. <0056, and is with Ross, Hardies, O'Keefe, Babcock, Mc-Ougald, and Parsons in Chicago. He soys the work is most interesting, that he node one ND game this year, and that it was good to get back to Campus. Roy's address is 9735 S. Lawndale Ave., Evergreen Pork, III. 60642. 
Joan and PAUL POLKING spent the holidays 
with Paul's folks in Iowa, and the BOB MURPHYs 
went home to New England. 
JOHN HAUGH writes that he and Phyllis 
hove purchased a 20-year-old house which 
they hove recently remodeled. He has trav­
eled to Minnesota ond Missouri on business 
and is enjoying his practice. He enclosed an 
article from the local poper praising his repre­
sentation of an alcoholic in criminal court. 
John won the cose on an argument that alco­
holism was a defense to a fox-evasion charge. 
He also soys that he wrote two chapters of 
a recently published book on workmen's com­
pensation practice in Oregon, and was recently 
elected Secretory-Treosurer of the State Triol 
Lowyers (ATLA) Organization. His work is 
largely in handling federal court cases and 
appeals in the Ninth Circuit ond the Oregon 
Supreme Court. John's new address is 6931 
S.W. 33rd Ploce, Portland, Ore. 97219. 
Cookie and 1 ore putting a fifth bedroom in 
our new home, ond we hope to be able to 
entertain as many of you as are able to come 
to Washington at any time in the future. 
Remember, send in those yellow cords-
Frank Gregory 
5078 Woodland Way Annandah, Virginia 22003 

•67 OUT FOR COFFEE 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
John J. Hughes 99 W. 37lh SI. Bayonne, NJ. 07002 

'68 HE'S FISHING FOR A UNE 
Not too much to report in this issue since few members of the Class hove bothered to take the time to drop me a line. Let's fry and keep those cords coming. 
Your class secretary was engaged to Miss Susanne G. Lee Nov. 16 and o wedding is planned for April 12. Also I hove been drafted into the Army as of February, 1969. 
Thanks to DENNY WITHERS for the follow­
ing information. Denny is ot low school at the 
U. of Georgia. JOHN BRODERICK, MIKE BROWNING, and GENE CAVANAUGH ore in the Army O.C.S. ROCKY BLEIER, formerly of the Pittsburgh Steelers, has been drafted into the Marine Corps. Congratulations to JIM SMITHBERGER on his marriage to the former Miss Joyce Cloer in July. The Navy is well represented by ND graduates with BRIAN SCHANNING and MIKE CAMP stationed at the Nuclear Power School, Boinbridge, Md. ANDY KELLY, PAT KALLAL, JIM LoTERZA, IGNATIUS PIOTROWIAK, and DAN KIMBALL are stationed at the Navy Supply School in Athens, Go., until Dec. 19. BILL CLEARY is an Ensign in the Navy and will begin training in Athens Dec. 1. 
The Air Force also has some graduates with 2nd Lt. STEVE SULLIVAN who is in pilot train­ing at Laredo AFB, Tex., and BRIAN KEL­LEHER who is assigned to Williams AFB, Ariz., for pilot training. 
TED NEBEL, RALPH NEAS, and JIM FRANCZEK are at the U. of Chicago Low School. Also from the land of Mayor Daley, FRAN MENTONE writes thof he is engaged to Miss Peggy Rogers and Fran is director of guidance and counseling at an all-girls school in Elmhurst, 111. 
Remember, send in those yellow cards. 
Leonard J. Pellerchia 317 Mt. Prospect Ave. 
Nework, NJ. 07104 


GRADUATE SCHOOLS 
LB] receives Bro. Paul's Plaque. 

Bronze and Barbells 
JI P you know your German "faul" spells "lazy" to you. To Rev. Anthony J. Lauck CSC, director of Notre Dame art gallery, it means Bro. Joseph Faul CSC, fonner ND art student, in whom, according to Father Lauck "there is no lazy bone." When 17-year-old Joe entered the Holy Cross Order back in 1948 he never considered himself an artist but whittling between novitiate exercises can have some surprising results. The whittling opened up a realization of native artistic power; the electrical, plumbing, and construction main­tenance work sensitized his eye and hand to how things work together; and the weight lifting increased lus appreciation of the beauty of the 
human physique. Now, back at Holy Cross Seminaiy in North Easton, Mass. Brother is still creating. When Eev. Edmund J. Haughey CSC, Director of Admis­sions at Stonehill College, needed a vei-y special artifact he turned to Brother Paul for its execution. 
Brother sculptured a 27-pound bronze plaque. It is in the fonn of an open book with an inscription on one page "To all American children tliis legancy from Lyndon B. John­son — innovative and massive assist­ance to education." The other page shows a man's hand, with presiden­tial cuif-links on the shirt cuffs, ex­tended to hold a child's hand. 
President Johnson was presented with the plaque by Father Haughey on behalf of the Catholic College Co­ordinating Council. The Council rep­resents 158 Catholic colleges in the 
U.S. and over 260,000 students who attend member colleges. In accepting the plaque the President said that it would become part of the Johnson li­brary when it is completed in 1970. 
Hopefully Notre Dame has not seen the last of Brother Faul. He has been given a big project for the next two years. Stonehill College wants a larger-than-life bronze sculpture for its new athletic building and Bro. Joseph has the job. He envisions full scale athletic iigures somehow demon­strating conflict. It's going to be a real challenge and Brother hopes to return next month to ND, the art department, and Father Lauck for further guidance. The Campus is waiting for that weight-lifting artist. 

DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY 
The following were awarded the PhD degree in chemislry in February: DAN BORGNAES, Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co., New Martinsville, 
W. Va.; BOB CALLEN, Mobil Research & Development Corp., Paulsboro, N. J.; Sr. KATH­ERINE BERNARD GAFFNEY OP, St. Thomas Aquinas Col., Sparkhill, N.Y.,- LESLIE KOZAK, postdoctoring in biochemistry at Michigan State U.; DIVARKEN MASILAMANI, postdoctoring of Wisconsin U. in Madison; Lt. FRED MEYER, U.S. Army Materials & Mechanics Research Center, Wotertown, Mass.; Lt. DICK SCHOENIG, Red­stone Arsenal, Huntsville, Ala.; and BILL STRA2IK, Monsanto Chemical Co., St. Louis, Mo. 
GENE HUNTER '66 is back with Naico Chem­ical Co- in Chicago. DON LEIS '44 is market manager for urethane foams with Union Carbide in NY and lives with his family in Riverside, Conn. Sr. MARY (Dismas) 0*Rourke SCL '67 is teaching at St. Mary Col., Xavier, Kan. DEMETRIOS PETRIDIS '68 is postdoctoring at UCLA and hopes to be back in Athens this summer with the Greek Atomic Energy Com­mission. JOSE PHILIP '66 has moved to Detroit and is researching with Parke Davis. His first daughter was born in August. Sr. M. ROSALIE URENDOWSKI OSF '64 is teaching at the U. of Albuquerque and researching at the Air Force Weapons Laboratory, working on thermol ona\y&es of plastics and laminated polymers to determine their possible use as nose-cone materials. 
Bro. Cofumba Curran CSC 
Depi. of Chemistry Noire Dame, Ind, 465S6 


DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH 
Sister Mary EJJen Doyle, PhD '68, formerly 
Sister Benedict, is Acting Head of the English De­
partment of Elizabeth Spalding Col., Nazareth, 
Kentucky. During 1967-68 Sister Ellen taught 
ai Huston-Tillotson Col., Austin, Texos, under the 
Woodrow Wilson Teaching Internship Program. 
Harold M. Isbell, MA '62, will be director of 
the writing program at St. Mary's next year. 
He IS presently teaching at San Francisco Col. 
for Women. Professor Isbell has published a number of poems and is currently under con­tract to Penguin Publishers (Classics Series) preparing a volume of iat'in poetry^ 
Michael Yetman, PhD '67, is Assistant Profes­sor of English at Purdue. 
We need more Information about the current whereabouts and activities of our graduate stu­dent alumni. Please send such news of yourself to me at the Department of English. 
Edward Vasta English Depf, Noire Dame, tnd, 46556 


DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY 
Ralph Pastor (MA-1964) is now in St. John's, Newfoundland, teaching at the Memorial U. of Newfoundland. 
Timothy O'Keefe (Ph.D.-19681 is at Santa Clara U., Santa Clara, Calif. William Ritz (M.A.-1968) Is teaching at Han­over Col. in Franklin, Ind. James Folllard {M.A.-19671 is teaching at St. Peter's Col., Jersey City, N.J. 
Bernard Norling Department of History Noire Dame, Indiana 46556 


LAW SCHOOL 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. White, of St. Louis, hove given to the University $500,000 for an endowed professorship in the Law School. Mr. White is a 1937 ND graduate. 
Dean Lawless called the Whites' gift "a most heartening development as the law school pre­pared to celebrate its centennial in 1969" and Father Hesburgh said the gift would strengthen further "an already outstanding faculty at the nation's oldest Catholic school of law." 
Mr. White is octive in civic and charitable affairs in St. Louis. He is a member of the President's Council of St. Louis U.; chairman of the Lay Advisory Board of Christian Brothers Col.; and a member of the boards of Cardinal Glennon Hosp., Calvary Cemetery, and Mary-knoll. He is c Knight of the Holy Sepulchre. 
Prof. G. R. Blakey, '57, '60L, left the faculty in January to become chief counsel for the Subcommittee on Criminal Lows and Procedure, of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary. Both the committee and the sub-committee are chaired by Sen. John McCIellon, the principal architect of the Omnibus Crime Act of 1968. Prof. Blakey contributed to the drofting and passage of the act, most notably to Its title on electronic sur­veillance. Prof. Blakey will be on indefinite leave from the Law School; he was o special attorney for the organized crime section of the Justice Department before he joined the ND faculty in 1964; he was a consultant to the Crime Commission and assisted in numerous conferences and seminars on criminal low during the past four years. 
Prof. Bernard J. Word's article on the new Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure is in the 
Spring issue of the Federal Bar Journal. Prof. 
Word, who drafted the new rules, is on leave this year, teaching at the U. of Texas. Dean Emeritus Joseph O'Meara sends this 
in the December, 1968 NOTRE DAME LAWYER 

Joseph P. Martori, '67L, and Harold J. Bliss, Jr., '67L, "Taxation of Municipal Bond Interest—'Interesting Speculation' and One Step Forward" 
Notes on constitutional protection for group legal services; and on the public right of navigation 
Cose comments on the Texas Gulf Sulphur-
S.E.C. case; consortium damages; bargain­ing lock-outs; commercial orbltration and the Shermon Act; retaliatory eviction; and double jeapordy 
Book review by Prof. Wolfgang G. Friedman of the Columbia Low School 
message to graduates of the Low School's 
"O'Meara Era": He lacked this year the 
facilities for sending Christmas cards to grad­
uates, but wishes everyone a Merry Christmas. 
(Dean O'Meara is now on attorney with the 
Legal Services Program tn South Bend, working 
out of Its southeast neighborhood office. He 
and Mrs. O'Mearo spent the Christmos holiday 
with their son and his family in California.) 
Prof. Roger Paul Peters was the Law School's delegate to the annual meeting of the Associa­tion of American Low Schools, in New Orleans. He and Mrs. Peters spent the Christmas holiday, before the meeting. In that city. Prof. Peters, who is in his 18th year of teaching low at ND, is also the Low School's delegate to the Uni­versity committee on sponsored research. He teaches federal taxation, constitutional low, admiralty, and insurance. 
Dean Lawless and Prof. Edward J. Murphy were elected as faculty delegates to the Uni­versity's new, progressive, busy Student Life Committee. (Prof. Murphy is also chairman of the Faculty Senate.) 
Prof. Tom Shaffer 
Law School Noire Dame, Indiana 46556 

DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS 
Bock again to the task of bringing you up to date on the present whereabouts, past and present activities of some of the old-timers, vintage 1950-59. 
JOHN C. NOYES '52 (nuclear physics), wife Vernetta, and three children, Esther, Paula, and Carol, live at 3314 56 Ave. S.W., Seattle, Wash. 98116. After serving in the U.S. Navy from 1942-45, Jack obtained his BS degree from the 
U. of Portland in 1947, and then came to ND for graduate study in physics. His PhD degree was formolly awarded in 1952. He joined the Boeing Company (Seattle Division) in 1951, served in their Systems Management Office from 1958-59, and has been in the Boeing Scientific Research Lobs since 1959. He is presently Head of Boeing's Geoastophysics Lob. 
JOHN E. VAN HOOMISSEN "52 (nuclear physics), wife Anne, and seven children, Dovld, Anne, Sara, Matthew, Mary, John, and Paul, live at 303 Cliffside Dr., Danville, Calif. 
Congrats 

WILLIAM A. TEOLI BS 53 MS 'V, o patent 
lawyer, has lamed the General Electric Re­search and Development Center. A native of Richmond County, NY, Teoli earned his LIB at George Washington U. oiler receiving his Urs) degrees at ND. A member of the NY Bar he was admitted to practice before ths 1/.S. District Court in Northern New York, 
SISTER MARY JANE KIRCHNER, MA '62, PhD '65, has been appointed president or Our Lady of Cincinnofi Co//ege in Cincinnati, Ohio. Sr. Kirchner will assume this post Feb. 3 when the institution's name will officially be changed to Edgecliff College. Assistant professor of English at the college since 1965, Sister become assisloni to the president last year. 
94526. Von was a contemporary of Jack Noyes both at the U. of Portland and also at ND. He received his BS degree from the U. of Portland in 1947, and his PhD degree from ND in 1952. From 1951 to 53 Van served in the U.S. Navy on assignment to Los Alamos Scientific Lab­oratory, in Weapons Design-Group W-4, Van joined Boeing Airplane Company in 1953, and for two years was on loan from Boeing to Oak Ridge Notional Lob, working on problems of shielding for proposed nuclear propulsion of airplanes. He left Boeing in 1956, to work at General Electric Company's National Reactor Testing Station, again on problems related to nuclear propulsion of aircraft. Since 1962 he has been at General Electric's Vollecitos Nuclear Center, in Pleosanton, Calif., and is currently serving as mgr. of G.E.'s Nuclear 
Thermionic Power Operaiion developmeni program there. LOUIS V. HOLROYD '50 (high polymer 

ON REConn 
ENGAGEMENT 
Miss Rito Brennan to PAUL CULHANE '67 

MARRIAGES 
Miss Janet Raye York to MICHAEL MAX MURPHY '60, Sept. 14. Miss Corolynn Dee to SALVADOR FRANCIS LECCESE '64, Nov. 30. Miss Carol Cabanna to NEIL BOWEN '67, last August. Miss Jon Toubilz (SMC '6'&\ to STEVE VOGEL '67 last August. Miss Janice DiGann to STEPHEN WAY '6Z, Nov. 29. 


BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS V/ALSH '47. a daughter, Lillian Margaret, Nov. 2. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS E. FOOTE '53, a daughter. Sheila Maureen, Dec. 6. Mr. and Mrs. MIKE STOREN '57, a son, Stephen Duke, Nov. 25. Mr. and Mrs. M. JAMES MURPHY '(SO, a daughter, Mary Terese, Dec. 29. Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND RAEDY '62, a son, Dovid Potrick, Sept. 12. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT MIER "154, a son, Brendon Francis, Dec. 10. 

ADOPTION 

Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD C. Vi^AGNER '53, a doughter, ].avTO Ann, Oct. 17. 

SYMPATHY 

WILLIAM C. SCHMITT 'lO on the death of his brother Michoel in November. MAURICE J. CARROLL '19 on the death of his wife, Tereso. REV. RAYMOND F. COUR CSC '37 on the death of his mother, Nov. 29. WILLIAM J. COUR '38 on the death of his mother, Nov. 29. 
physics) and wife Helene live at 400 Blair Ct., Columbia, Mo. (He hasn't returned his ques­tionnaire yet; so I can't give you the vital family statistics.) Louis served in the Canadian Army as a 2nd Lt. in the Signal Corps from 1944-45. He received his BA degree in 1945 from the U. of British Columbia and his MA degree from the some institution in 1947. After receiving his PhD degree from ND in 1950, Louis joined the faculty of the Dept. of Physics at the U. of Missouri, Columbia, Mo., 65201, He is a futi professor there, and has been serving as Chairman of the Dept. of Physics at Missouri since 1956. According to very recent informaiion [via Christmas card) Louis will be enjoying a sabbatical at the U. of Keele, Staffordshire, England, from Feb. to Sept. of 1969. 
DAVID W. JUENKER '52 {physical electronics), wife Bonnie, and five children, David, Chris, Peter, Matty, and Polly (wonder how Polly is 
RICHARD J. LAJOIE '42 on the death of his father. WILLIAM LAJOIE '49 on the death of his father. 
T. FRANK NOVAK '49 on the death of his father Jomes, Dec. 23. EDWARD E. COUR '50 on the death of his mother, Nov. 29. ROBERT LAJOIE '51 on the death of his father. DAVID LAJOIE '52 on the death of his fother. RICHARD B. HOHMAN '54 on the deoth of his father. Burton. TIMOTHY J. SHEA '55 on the death of his father Daniel. LAURENCE O. BEDFORD '57 on the death of his fother, Dec. 17. SR. MARY CELESTE OSU, MA '59, on the deoth of her mother, Nov. 29. 
JAMES C. SWEENEY '62 on the death of his fother James E. in January. 

DEATHS 

FRANCIS J. HOLLEARN '10, December. He is survived by his daughter, Mrs. Brandon J. Hickey, 2791 Albany Ave. W . Hartford, Conn. 05117 
DANIEL R. FOLEY '11, Dec. 12. He is sur­vived by his wife Elizabeth, a daughter, Mrs. Mary Ann Terry, and two sons Daniel and Aidan. 
FRANK B. WELSH LLB '16, Nov. 5. Frank was o Monogram man while at ND. 
L. BERNARD MACNAB '25, Dec. 2. "Barney" is survived by his widow Katharine, a daughter, Mrs. Alan Trounweiser, and o son, Thomas. 
ROBERT D. WELSH '26, Aug. 8. He is sur­vived by his son Robert. 
EDWARD P. CUNNINGHAM '28, Dec. 20. Ed succumbed after o long illness. 
JOSEPH P. KISSLING '28, Dec. 30. He is survived by his wife and three daughters. His widow resides at 63 Woodland Dr. Brightwater, New York 11718 
getting along with those four older brothers) live at One Duval St., S. Burlington, Vt. 05401. Dave received his B.S. degree from Canisius Col in 1947, and his PhD degree from ND in 1952. He served as an Instructor in the ND Dept. of Physics from 1951-53, and then went to Princeton for the period 1953-54 on a Past-doctoral Research Appointment in Metallurgy. He returned to the N.D. Physics Dept. as an Asst. Prof, in 1955, and was promoted to Assoc. Prof, in 1961. Dave left ND in 1964 (our winters were too mild) to accept a position in the Dept. of Physics at the U. of Vermont (Burlington, Vt. 05401) where he now holds the rank of full professor. 
I'm over my quota and had better quit before the editor lowers the boom. More about the old-timers of the 1950's in the next column. 
Robert L. Anthony 
Assistant Chairman Dept. of Physics 
RAYMOND J. ANGSTEN '29, Jon. 14, 1964. News of his death was just received recently. He is survived hy his widow Loretfo. 
LOUIS J. KREM '29, March 24. His family lives ot 3450 Northwest 79th St., Miami, Flo. 
ALBERT J. SEYMOUR '30, Nov. 30. He is survived by his wife Laura, three sons, John, James, and Lawrence, and two daughters, Mrs. Louis Appignoni and Mrs. James Young. 
PAUL E. SMITH '32, Dec. 10. His family resides at 3568 Wilshire Circle, N.W., Canton, Ohio 44720. 
WALTER MATUS '35, Dec. 8. He is survived by his sister Mrs. Ella Mognob. 
DR. CASIMIR J. CZAJKOWSKI, MS'39, PhD'41, July 3, 1968. His family lives o( 108 Fallon Ave., Elmont, L.I., NY. 
THOMAS A. DELIA '41, Dec. 23. He is survived by his widow Marie of 1545 Oceon Porkwoy, Brooklyn, NY 11230 
FRANK D. GILLIS '42, Dec. 30. ROBERT J. CHOINSKI '51, Jan. 1. He is survived by his wife and three children. DAVID A. JANESKI '65, Dec. 27. He is survived by his parents, Mr. ond Mrs. Frank 
M. Joneski, and o sister, Diane. 



Friends of ND European Trip 
The 1969 Friends of Notre Dame Tour to France, Switzerland, Ger­many, England, and Ireland is now being arranged by Edgerton's Travel Service of South Bend. Departing on May 24 and returning on June 14, the jet flight will be escorted by Monica Geiger and cost ?899. For further information contact Edgerton's Travel Sei-vice, 226 S. Main St., South Bend, Ind. 

CLUBS 

Dale Stack and Jim Keegan of the Akron Club pose with Don Miller, Jim Lash and Dale Marino. 



Ahronites 

AR A PARSEGHIAN and athletics are an automatic combination but the members of the Notre Dame Club of Akron insist that isn't the whole stoiy. Proud of their home-town man the Club wrote to Ara asking if an award might be initiated in his honor. There are many awards in the area recognizing strictly athletic ability but this new one will place equal em­phasis on scholastic and leadership qualities. The Akronites feel Par­seghian depicts both. 
The plan is to have the sports staff of the Akron Beacon Journal recommend 

Found Ara Award 
outstanding scholar-athletes of the Summit, Portage, and Medina school disti'ict annually. A panel of club members will review the proposed names and credentials with the school authorities. Better-than-average aca­demic records and demonsti-ated citi­zenship excellence will detennine the final choices. 
This year's recipients filled the bill to a high degree. James Lash, an all-city and all-state end is also a good student. Dale Marino, in the top five percent of his graduating class, was the outstanding quarterback selected. 
Both boys attend Garfield High School whose football team was se­lected all-city this year. 
The awards were presented at the annual Communion-Brunch, Dec. 8, and the remarks of the principal speaker, Don Miller of Four Horsemen fame, were particularly fitting. He stressed the necessity for student-athletes to take academics seriously. The Akron Club hopes the Parseghian Award will help stimu­late that combination — athletic and scholastic leadership. 
BOSTON 

One hundred forty club members attended the 
annual ND Communion Breakfast, Dec. 8. A 
beautiful folk Mass was said at the Paulist 
Chapel in Boston and was concelebrated b/ 
the Reverends JOHN CORR CSC '46, President 
of Stonehill Col., Easton, Mass.; CHARLES 
SHEEDY CSC, Dean of Biblical Studies at ND; 
JOHN F. FITZGERALD CSC '55, Club Chaplain, 
and JAMES BURTCHAELL CSC "56, Chairman of 
ND Theology Dept. After the Mass, a break­
fast was served at the Red Coach Grill. 
DICK MliRPHY '58, Club President, wel­
comed the members and ART MURPHY '59, 
Chairman, introduced the head table and 
guest speakers. Johnnie Pesky, former Red 
Sox baseball player and manager, and the 
new Voice with Red Sox, was guest speaker. 
Father Burtchaell also addressed the club and 
gave his view of what the Church will be like 
in 25 years. We extend our congratulations 
to Art Murphy for organizing a fine Com­
munion Breakfast! 

The next maior function for the club will 
be the annual meeting and sports night in 
February. 

—W. J. Pietrusiak '58, Sec. 
BUFFALO A very successful event this year was the club's sponsoring of a Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra Concert and Dance- More than 200 tickets were sold by the club under the direc­tion of DICK WAGNER and HERB MOELLER. The alumni club was proud to welcome the LJniversity Glee Club to town during the Thanksgiving holiday. They presented on espe­cially fine concert at Rosary Hill Col. to a receptive audience. The annual Communion Breakfast was held Dec. 8. A turnout of about 130 made this one of the finest breakfasts ever. JOHN LAVIGNE served exceptionally as toastmaster. The Christmas vacation saw a resumption of our holiday dances. —Bill Kane, Treas. 
^^^ ^ BURLINGTON ~ A pre-Christmos dinner meeting was held ot the Burlington Golf Club Dec. 13. The group met at the ED RILEYs beforehand for re­freshments. At the meeting, JOHN O'NEILL '52 was elected the 1969 president of the Club replacing Vern Brinck. Fr. ART PERRY '52 was retained as Recording Secretary. Present at the meeting were Jane ond DICK DELANEY, Sue and JOE RIDGE, Dorothy and ED RILEY, Mary ond WALLY WEINRICH, Mory and ED DAILEY, Dorothy ond JACK DAILEY, Ann and JOHN O'NEIL, Marilyn and JIM PEARRE, Mari­onno and VERN BRINCK, Mary ond MARTY MARTEL, Mary and FRANK DELANEY, Joanne and BILL BAUER and Fr. Horry Ryon. 
—Set-. Arthur Perry 
^^ ^ CENTRAL JERSEY = Recent activities included the football trip to Philadelphia for the Navy game, and our an­nual December Communion Breakfast. Over 500 attended the game and everything went quite smoothly thanks to DAVE GIBBONS. All had a great time. The Communion Breakfast was ably chaired by FRANK DOOLEY. Frank prevailed upon Monsignor Corey from Queen of Angels Parish in Newark to speak to us on the problems of the inner city. Next on the agenda is the February basket­ball trip to the Garden to see Notre Dame beat NYU. A final note, anyone in Central Jersey not on our mailing list should contact me in West­field at 232-1584. 
David E. Collins, Sec. 
CONNEaiCUT VALLEY ^ ^ The Club's foil activity was highlighted by a Communion Supper celebrated on the nighf of the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. Sixty members of the local ND family gathered around a huge table in the upper room of Cooke's Tavern for a Folk Mass celebrated fay Father Eugene Ciorlo. Supper was served offer-wards at the same table. All present applauded the work of JIM CASSIDY '62, for his efforts in making the evening meaningful os well as memorable. The November Smoker featured high school football. Ted Knurek, Coach of Weaver HS in Hartford, the recipient of the Club's first Knute Rockne Award, and Pete Zinardi, School Boy Sports Editor of the Hartford Times, spoke of the problems related to high school athletics in the Connecticut Valley. A film was shown reviewing ND's All-Americans of 1966. Dec. 15, the second Knute Rockne Award was presented to Coach Bob McKee of Conord HS in West Hartford. His football, baseball and wrestling teams were all champions in Conord's Conference last year. Our rolls hove grown this fall. There are 52 dues-paying members (up from 27 in Sep­tember). The Membership Committee will re­sume contacting non-dues-paying members after the holidays. But pleose don't wait. Contact us first. 
John McGuire, Sec. 
^^DALIAS-FORT WORTH ^ ^ The annual Christmos cocktail party was held Dec. 6 at the home of Mr. and Mrs. DICK LAJOIE in Dallas. We hod the largest crowd ever at this event and those in attendance reported having a great time. A very special thanks to our hosts and to the Ladies' Auxiliary, who supplied the delicious food and worked so hard to moke the party a success! The Men's Luncheon, which is a new activity for the club members, has been met with en­thusiastic support. Due to the success of the first two meetings, it has now become a monthly affair. Mrs. ED FLEMING was chairman of the Ladies* Coffee, held Nov. 14. A good crowd was on hand to discuss current club matters. The Club wishes to extend congratulations to our long-time and beloved member ARTHUR HUGHES, whose ordination took place Nov. ^6 in Sacred Heart Cathedral. ND Club members were saddened by the sudden death of our good friend ond Chaplain, Monsignor William F. O'Brien, Oct. 31. No Club function was ever complete without the presence of this wonderful man. 
Laurence O. Bedford, Sec. 
DETROIT The Detroit Club hod its Christmas Dinner-Dance at Northland Inn. The party was on the fop floor overlooking "Beautiful Downfo%vn Southfield." ART SHANNON '60 was the chair­man. Feb. 8 the Club will go in a large group to the U-D vs. ND faaskefbaH game. This shapes up as one of the big gomes of the year. There will be a party following the gome 
— plans are not definite yet. 

The Club schedule then switches from so­cial to spiritual. The Communion-Breakfast is planned for mid-February. MIKE HEGARTY '57 is chairman. TOM MOORE '58 and LOU BASSO '58 are leading a group in the Annual Retreat to be held of Manresa Retreat House during the first weekend of Lent. 
Bob Bogg, Sec. 
RINT, MICH.^^^^ 
The 13th Annual ND Club Communion Break­fast was held Dec. 15. Holy Moss wos held at St. Joseph Hospital Chapel, breolcfost fol­
lowed at the Yorkshire Restouronl on Millet 
Road. 

Mr. Dick Conklin from the Public Informa­
tion Bureau at the University was the main 
speaker. He spoke to 80 in ottendance about 
the modern priest in today's society. Mr. 
Michael KelJy, son of Roymond Kelly, a stu­
dent at the University, brought the alumni up 
to dote on what is going on. Sonta Clous also 
provided the children with gifts. 

In charge of arrangements were JACK KEAN 
and FRED MANSOUR. Jock Kean is the new 
President of the ND Club of Flint, and William 
F. Minordo was reelected as the Secretary-
Treasurer. William F. Minardo, Sec.-Treas. 
^^ ^ FT. WAYNE, IND. ^^ ^ The Club held its onnuol Father and Son Com­munion Moss and Breakfast Dec. 15. Msgr. J. William Lester, club chaplain, offered the Moss at St. Vincent Villa ond the guest speaker at the breakfast was Father Edward Kroson, Prin­cipal of Bishop Dwenger HS. 
D. Munson, Sec.-Treas. 
^^ ^ K)X RIVER VALLEY ^^ ^ 
WISCONSIN We are happy to report that Dec. 8, the members of the Club, their wives ond children attended a private Moss in the chapel of St. Elizobeth Hosp., Appleton, Wis. in celebro­tion of the Feast of the Immoculote Conception. After Moss, a brunch was held ot Fuzzy Thurston's Left Guord Supper Club in Apple­ton. Eighty-two persons including the children attended. Our club president, JOHN GSCHWIND brought us up to date on the activities of Summa and Fuzzy Thurston answered questions relating to the recent misfortunes of the Green Bay Packers. A football autographed by members of the 19i8 ND football squad was given owoy— by drawing and was won by VINCE ST. MARIE, our club Vice-President. James J. Siddall, Sec.-Treas. 
• GREATER MIAMI ^^ ^ Nov. 21 was election night for our Club. Our new officers ore: GEORGE A. KEN­NARD JR '48, Pres; BERNARD G. LYONS '58, Vice-Pres; DENIS P. TURNOCK '57, Sec; ond JOHN T. KANE, '67, Treas. The new directors ore: BERNARD J. FEENEY '39; GEORGE F. HERO '52; GENE KUBICKI '54; GEORGE E. lEPPIG '28; WILLIAM J. MAZANEC '48; L. NICK MUELHAUPT '52; and JAMES H. SWEENY 
111 '57. These alumni will take office at the in­stallation meeting to be held in January. 
i. Nick Muelhaupt, Sec. 
^^^^ GREEN BAY ^^^^ Dec. 8 the Club celebrated Founders Day with an evening Moss of Resurrection parish and a dinner at the Beaumont Inn. Speaker for the evening was Rev. Vonde Hei of St. Norbert's Col. who discussed the "Humonae Vitae" and Bishop Wycislo, who spoke about the recent Bishops* conference in Woshington. The Bishop's remarks were very interesting ond were the highlight of on enjoyable evening. Jerome Pokel, Sec. 
^^ = HARRISBURG, PA. ^^ ^ The Club mode its first charter trip to the Campus for the ND-Oklahomo game Sept. 21. An enthusiastic group of 44 members made the plane trip. We ore all looking forward to a return next year. The Club's Annual Communion Mass was held Dec. & at St. Patrick's Cathedral in Horrisburg. The Club Chaplain, Rev. Charles Slough of Bishop McDevitt HS, celebroled the Mass. A business meeting followed. 
No need to Identify these yip's hosted by the Greater Miami Club at the holiday North/South Shrine Game. 
The Club was represented ot the ND-King's 
basketball gome in Wilkes-Barre Dec. 3, also in 
Baltimore Dec. 30. 
Club President Joe Ellam was in attendance Dec. I I for the Regional Meeting of the Alumni Association in Baltimore. 
Our Admissions Recruiting Committee has been formed and will get to work after the first of the year. Committee members are JOHN BOLGER, Dr. JOHN GOEDECKE, ERNIE BUCK­LEY and Dr. AL SCHREDER. 
Fronk D. Cillh, Sec. 

^^^= INDIANAPOUS ^^^^ 
The annual corporate Communion and Break­fast was held Dec. 8, the feast of the Immacu­late Conception. Rev. Joseph P. Wade, Club Chaplain, celebrated Moss at St. John's Church, followed by breakfast at the Sheraton-Lincoln Hotel. Archbishop Paul C. Schulte attended the breakfast and expressed some timely observa­tions in a short presentation. 
Thomas F. Broden, an Indianapolis native and assistant dean of the ND Low School, was the speaker at the Breakfast. Currently on leave of absence from ND, and presently Chief, Training and Technical Division of the Office of Economic Opportunity, Dean Broden re­minded the group of the importance of indi­vidual commitment of everyone to equal op­portunity and justice for all, if the laws enacted for such purposes are to be effective. 
Lawrence E. (Bud) Turner was chairman of this enjoyable and worthwhile event, Robert 
E. Kane, Pres. of the Club, presided, and 
K. Cloy Smith handled the introductions. 
Joseph A. Naughton Jr., Sec, 

^^^ ^ JERSEY SHORE ^^ ^ 
Committees are at work preparing for the UNO Night, tentatively scheduled for Thursday, April 70, at the Shodowbrook in Shrewsbury, and for the installation of new officers and directors that night. 
Chairman for the UND Night is CHARLIE HESSE '57. The featured speaker will be Alumni Secretary JIM COONEY. Chairman for the Man of the Year selection committee is PETE BEL­MONT '47. Heading the committee to nominate new officers and directors is immediate Post President ED VOLL '48. 
The voting for the nominating committee's slate for officers and directors will take place at the club's annual business meeting, to be held in mid-March. Members will be notified by moil of the exact time and place of this meeting. 
The Club is also continuing the bus trip to the ND-NYU basketball game in Madison Square Garden Feb. 20. Co-chairmen for the trip ore JOHN WHITE '48 and JOHN BOGAN '55. 
MID-HUDSON VALLEY = NEW YORK = 
Nov. 17 we held a family Communfon Mass at St. Andrew's Jesuit Seminary. Our chaplain. Rev. Comillus Setgihara, was celebrant. Thirty-five alumni, families and friends attended. Dinner followed at the Squire's Inn. 
Connor Hough, Sec, 
^^ = NASHVILLE, TENN. • 
Friday night, Dec. 13, the Club held its annual Christmas dinner at The Hearth Res­taurant in Madison, Tenn. After the friendly cocktail hour, we sat down to a delicious meal prepared over the hearth. 
The following Club members were in at­tendance: Dick Martin, '54, Jim Carell, '58, Dr. Al Kerns, Louis Dougherty, '51, Jim Green-well, '54, Tom Wolfram, Pot Cunningham, '49, Vince Wehby, '58, Frank Rhodes, '59. 
Frank Rhodes discussed the ^969 footboll gome slated to be ployed in the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans ogoinst Tulone. The tentative plans ore for the Club to arrange full round-trip chartered airplane transportat'ton^ two nights' lodging, and a football ticket for ap­proximately $100 for each person. This special pricing will be ovoilable only for Club members who ore current with their dues. This occasion should result in another excellent tumoul sim­ilar to the 1967 Georgio Tech football game held in Atlanta. 
Paul Htr, Sec-Treos. 
^^ NOftlHWESTBm OMO^ ^ 
Our annual Christmas Meeting wos held Dec. 
12, in Lima, Ohio. Guest speaker far the eve­
ning was Rev. Donald Ranly, CPPS; a faculty 
member of St. Charles Seminary located at 
Corthogena, Ohio. Father Don spoke on the 
timely subject of the "generation gap" and 
what we con do about filling it. 
An election of officers was held later in the 
evening with len Welch of Lima being elected 
President and Jim Brunner of Lima as 
Secretory-Treasurer. 
The Club also voted to establish a scholarship 
fund for the purpose of assisting ND students 
from the area. Details of how the fund will be 
administered will follow. 
Jim Sowar, Sec. 

^^ ^ IRI-aTIES, iOWA ^^ ^ 
The Alumni Club of the Tri-Cities held the Dec. 8 Communion Moss and Dinner, at the Sf. Joseph's Manor, which is a seminar/ for the Marist Fathers in Bettendorf, Iowa. The sem­inary has 43 young men studying for the priesthood, who with their choir and guitar occompaniment to the Mass, provided a moving spiritual experience for the approximate 50 ND men and their wives in attendance. 
After cocktails, also served at St. Joseph's 
Manor, Fother Harrison prepared a delicious 
gourmet meal, and Father Borrett gave on in­
teresting talk on the "new Church." 
The next "semi-official" club function will be 
the kickoff dinner for Summa, Feb. 70. 
B. J, Hanli, Jr., President 



TRIPLE OTIES 
NEW YORK 
We joined with the local King's Alumni and sponsored o bus trip to The King's-ND bosket-Enll gome in Wilfces-Borre, Pa. We partrcipated in the Christmas Fund Drive for needy families with Catholic Social Service. 
F. A4. Ifnehon 


^ ^ RHODE ISLAND AND 
SJE. iWASSACHUSETTS ^^ 
The Club he Id its annual Christmas Dinner-
Donee Fri., Dec. 27 at the Hearthstone Motor 
Inn, Seekonk, Mass. 
The club was happy to welcome two new­
comers to the area: WALT PHILLIP '37 formerly 
from the Philly area and associoted with the 
Tilo Co. in Foil River, Moss., and JOE O'CON­
NELL '40 who has recently assumed the duties 
of Vice President-Rnanciol Affairs at the U. of 
Rhode Island, Kingston. 
Bernfe McMohon, Secretory 
= ROME' 
Our ND hospitality center is at your service doily from noon to nine at 82 Largo Broncoc­cio, Tel 730002 near rail-oir terminal. 
This report is Eieing written on Christmas Day in a happily noisy and crowded ND hospitality pod on Tiber. Fifty sophomores ND-SMC down from Angers, ^ance, and Innsbruck, Austria, are our Christmas guests. Along with them are Prof. JOHN and Mrs. OESTERLE and Prof. PAUL and Mrs. BOSCO, directors of the yeor­obroad progroms. 
Last night oil hands attended Midnight Moss at nearby Basilica of St. Mary Major fol­lowed by eggnog open house at ND Center. This morning we ottended the Holy Father's Moss at St. Peter's and gathered again here for appetizers E»fore marching (running) across the street to Ye Old Scoglio Di Frisio Restaurant for Tom Turkey dinner to tune of Christmas 
35 
music. After dinner our sophs lined up to molce 
"collect" calls home. Joining in the festivities 
were Prof. EDWARD and Mrs. FISCHER on 
European holiday. Helping to host were Prof. 
GORDON and Mrs. Dl RENZO '57. residing 
in Rome on Fulfaright professorship. The stu­
dents expressed special thanks, this being their 
first year owoy from home on Christmas. In 
turn we are all well impressed with the qual­
ity of these annual ND-SMCers abroad. 
Alumnus JIM GORMAN "68 was wondering 
about Rome wondering if he wanted a lonely 
Christmas away from home. He spots ND 
jackets. Our sophs led him to us. We include 
him. Jim is joyous! 
Vmce McA/oon '34, Sec. 

^ ^ SAN DIEGO, CALIF. ^^ ^ 
A highly successful trip to (he ND-Southern 
California football gome was the highlight of 

the San Diego Club's November schedule. 
TIM HINCHEY '61 arranged and coordinated 
the trip which saw over 75 members and guests 
travel to Los Angeles to view one of the year's 
most exciting matches. 
December, 1968, produced two noteworthy events. The first was the distribution of an op-dated and expanded membership roster which was the result of the efforts of Membership Secretary Tim Hinchey '61. December's second event, a well-received Communion breakfast, was arranged by MIKE CAREN "61, and was held at the Women's Col. of the U. oF San Diego following Mass at the U. of San Diego's Immaculoto Church. 
C/assen Gramm 
Corresponding Sec. 
: SPOKANE, WASH. 

Club members and parents of some of the 12 Spokane boys now attending ND observed Uni­versal Alumni Communion Sunday, Dec. 8, by attending Moss at Our Lady of Lourdes cathe­dral. Fallowing the Mass breakfast was en­joyed at the Spokane Club, after which Dr. BOB MAHER, '35, gove on illustroled tolk on his experiences in Vietnam earlier this year while serving on the program of the A.M.A. Volunteer Physicians for Vietnam. 
Election of officers for the next two years look place at the breokfost with these results: 
dub Direetory-
ALABAMA 

John A. O'Brien. Jr., '51, 2133 Vcstridge Dr., Birmingliam, Ala. 35216 
ALASKA 

John S. HcUcnilml '35. Box 941, Anchorage, Alaska 99501 
ARIZONA 

Phocmx—lohn P. Moran '59. 3519 W. Gardenia, Phocn'K. .\riz. 83021 Tucson—Raymond T. Tcrlizzi '5G, 717 West Chula Vista, Tucson 857M 
ARKANS.\S 

Fort Smith—iamcs A. Gilkcr, '48, 3715 Free Kerry Rd., Fort Smilh. .\rk. 72901 
Little Rock—A. J. Wrapc. Jr.. '47. Industrial Lumber Co.. 2200 E. 7th St., LitUc Rock, Ark. 72202 
CALIFORNIA 

Batcersfifid—Robert J. .\nspach '58. 6512 Desmond Ct., Bakcrsiicld, Calif. 93308 Central—H^Told A. Hair, '29 (Secre­tary), 2430 Tuhue St., Fresno. Calif. 93721 
Los Angeles—^John J. Stevrart '59. 20324 Reala PI., Woodbnd Hills, Calif. 91364 
Korthem—Vliiram Sherman '49. 430 Mission, San Rafael. Calif. 94901 Orange Countv—^Thomas J. Getzing­rr. '53. 2323 Ahniia, Fullcrton, Calif. S2631 
president, JOHN G. HESKETT, '63; vice-presi­dent, DAVID G. BATTLE, '62; secretary-treasurer, JOE WALSH, '14. Retiring president, DICK ST. JOHN, '56, was master of ceremonies. 
Plons are being made for the annual Pot­luck Supper to be held early in March at which the 1968 Football Highlights will be shown. 
Joe Walsh, '14, Sec'y-Trtas. 
^^ ^ TERRE HAUTE, IND.. 
The Club celebrated Universal Communion Sundoy, Dec. 8. Rev. Donald Buchonon cete* broted Moss for members and their sons at the Indiana State Catholic Student Center. Father Buchonon ottended ND in the summer of 1967 to work on his master's degree. After Mass, the Club enfoyed breakfast at the Terre Haute House. After breakfast Rev. Joseph Beechem spoke to the Club about the history ond pur­pose of ISU Catholic Student Center. . . Father Beechem is chaplain of the center and principal of Schulte Catholic High School in Terre Haute. CHARLES METZGER '48 ond PAUL MARIETTA '49 were co-chairmen for the event. Dec. 7, Club Secretary BERNIE BUR­DICK and Past President MIKE KEARNS '60 presented trophies to the outstanding ployers of the Gibault school football team. . . . This is now to become on annual project of the 
Club. 

Our next Club affair will be our onnual Football Highlight dinner when Club members, wives and guests hove dinner and view the ND Football Highlight Film of 1968. 
Jim Boyer '49, Publicity Chairman 
^ ^ WASHINGTON, D.C. ^ ^ 
The Club had a business meeting Nov. 25 at which time a new Constitution was adopted. In addition. Judge WILLIAM B. JONES '27. spoke to the Club on the problems and roots of crime in the ghettos. 
Dec. 8, the Club hod its Father-Son Com­munion Breakfast. A Memorial Moss was said for Captain JOHN POWELL "64 and Lieutenant WILLIAM 'WILK "66 who were killed in Viet Nam. Both were from the Washington area. 
Father John Corrigon, leader of the dissident priests in the Washington area, spoke to the Club members at the December Monthly Luncheon. This event is very well attended and 
Sacramento—Eugene V. Pongratz '53, 1024 42nd St., Sacramento, Calif. 93819 San Dieso—Clement J. O'Neill '56, 4823 Allied Rd., San Diego, Calif. 92120 
San Jose—Theodore Sobieralskt '54, 4822 Peppenvood Way, San Jose, Calif. 95124 
COLORADO 
Colorado Springs—Maj. Raymond J. Bubick '54. Qlrs. 6454-E, USAF Academy. Colo. 80840 
Dfiiivr—John R. Bruno '64, 1190 S. Colorado Blvd., Denver, Colo. 80222 
CONNECTICUT 
Connecticut Valley—Frank W. Lane '54. 260 Oak St., Wapping, Conn. 06087 
Fairfield Couii/)-—Dcnn'is J. O'Neill, Jr.. '51. 8 Covewood Dr., Roway­ton. Conn. 
Naugatuck Valley—^Thomas K. Hul>­bard '36. Box 84 South St., Litch­field. Conn. 06759 
New Haien—Tic. Robert T. Warner, '53. 850 Choatc Ave., Hamden, Conn. 06514 
DELAWARE 
Paul N. Clemens, 827 Woodsdale Rd., Wilmington, Del. 19809 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
J. Raj-mond Raedy '62, 5619 Johnson Ave, Beihcsda, Md. 20034 
FLORIDA 
Ccr/rnl—Norman E. Duke, '33, 1340 Oxford Rd., Mailland, Fla. 32751 
Ft. Lauderdale — William L. Daily '28, 818 SE 4lh St., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 33301 
Greater Miami—Geori;e A. Kennaid, Jr. '48, 780 N.W. 197 Terrace, Miami, Fla. 33169 
Morth F/a.—Robert D. Andrew, 3570 Beauderc Rd., Jacksonville, Fla. 32217 
Palm Beach County—^amcs _P. Kintz '54, c /o Atlantis Enterprises Inc., Athintis, Fb . 33460 Pensacola—Wm:na L. Soule Jr '62. 
P.O. Box 8, Pensacola, Fla. 32502 St. Petersburg-Tampa—^Roy J. Decb, 
'50. 5635 Seventh Ave., North St. Petersbuis, Fla. 33710 
GEORGIA 
Atlanta — Louis T. Loncaric, '57, 
E. F. Hutton and Co., 2 Vtmc Street, S.W., Atlanta, Ga. SCSOJ 
HAWAn 
Richard K. Murata, '57, 360 Pua­mamane St., Honolulu, Haw ^ 96821 
all talb are followed by a question-ond-answer 
session. 
The ND basketball team played American 
University in Baltimore Dec. 30. With BOB 
WHITMORE, SID CATLEFT, COLLIS JONES, and 
were a great number of Club members who 
AUSTIN CARR all being from Washington, there 
went over for the game. 
Raymond Raedy, President 
^ ¥fESTERN WASHINGTON ^ 
ND alumni and families attended Mass at 
St. Monica's Church on Mercer Island in ob­
servance of the Immaculate Conception Dec. 8. 
Breakfast followed at the Barb Restaurant. 
This was the first time the families had been in­
cluded in the annual Club Moss and the event 
was a real success with 65 people in at­
tendonce. 
Making the Club trip to the Southern Cal 
game Nov. 29 by jet were BOB SCHULTZE '61, 
and wife Mary; DAVE SMITH '49 and wife 
Helen; ond A l TOTH '49 with wife Barbara. 
Other members who attended the gome were 
DAN CONLEY '28, BUD DAVISCOURT '34, 
BRUCE HIGGINS '64 and BILL MARX '65. 
The ND Club lodies auxiliary sponsored a 
T.V. Party ot the DICK REGAN '54 home when the Irish met Mich. State in late Oct. Thirty-five fans attended and enjoyed everything ex­cept the gamel 
Club president TOM MAY '55 and director JIM LYONS '54 attended the region senate meeting in Son Francisco Nov. 25. The meeting was conducted by Jim Cooney and W. Jerome Kane, region 1 Alumni Assn. Director. 
Bill Herber, Sec. 
WILKES-BARRE ^^^^ 
Lt. Gov. Raymond Broderick and Coach John Dee were entertained by the Wilkes-Borre Club following the ND-King's basketball gome Dec. 3. The reception was held at the Hotel Sterling in Wilkes-Barre. In attendance at the reception were many alumni from northeastern Pa. JOSEPH J. ELLAM '58 pres. of the Harrisburg Club; NEIL F. KELLY '48 pres. of the Allen­town Club; and RICHARD J. JORDAN pres. of the Scronton Club attended with many mem­bers of their respective organizations. 
Raymond J. Sobofo, President 
IDAHO 

Frands H. Hicks, '49. 1180 Phelps Circle, Mountain Home, Idaho 83647 Idaho Falls — James M. Brady, '29, 
P.O. Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho 83401 
ILLINOIS 

Aurora — Eugene G. Griffin '57, Murphy & Griffin, 340 N. Lake St., Aurora, III. 60506 
Central Illinois—Mbtn O. Eck, Jr., '58, Old Jacksonville Rd., Spring­field. lU. 
CAiVago—Joseph J. Archibald Jr '50, 942 Columbian, Oak Park, 111. 60302 
D«a»ur—John F. Dunn '58, 523 Sheffield Dr. Decatur, lU. 62526 
Eastern ///.—Maurice F. Staudcr '41, 26 Lake Shore Dr. Danville, lU. 61832 
Fox Vattty — George R. Schmidt. '29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, 111. 60120 
/O/M/—Richard E. McHugh, '43, R.R. 2, Manhattan, HI. 60442 
UcHenry County — Leo J. Powers 
•25, 315 Warwick Lane, Crystal Lake, lU. 60014 
Peoria — William H. Stotzer '56, 5936 Sherwood Dr., Peoria, 111. 61614 
QMoi Ci(i«—Bernard J. Hank Jr '51, I8I2 37th St. Ct., MoUnc, DL 61265 
Rockford—William E. Schi'tger, ??, Grand Rapids and Western Michigan 
NORTH CAROLINA 
I32I Camp Ave., RocUoid, SI. Mr. John TuUy '61, 2504 Albert 
Donald J. Kelsey, '48, II15 West­
61103 Dr., S.E., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
ridge Rd., Greensboro, NC 27410 
Rock Riatr Valley—^James E. Dixon 49556 
'64, 121 E. Fiist St., Dixon, lU. 
61021 
Southern Cook County — Robert N. 
Caffarelli, '35, 20S51 Sparta Lane, 
Olympia Fields, lU. 60461 
INDIANA 

Calumet Dutnct—Thojaia S. Gozdecid Jr '58, 8106 Hobman Ave., Mun­ster, Ind. 46321 
Eastern Indiana—Dand D. Wilson 
'54, 222 West Main St., Hartford 
City, Ind. 47348 
Elkhart—James E. Hayes '49, 1715 E. 
Jackson Blvd., Elkhart, Ind. 46514 
Fort Wayne—Ronald L. Sowcra '60, 1630 AV. Goldspur Dr., Fort Wayne, Ind. 46808 
Indianapolis — Robert E. Kane '50, 
4715 N. Pennsylvania, Indianapolis, 
Ind. 46205 
Michigan City — C. Michael Cauley 
'52, 201 Eari Rd., Michigan City, 
Ind. 46360 
St. Joseph K<i/fcy—William N. Fara­
baugh '51, 301 St. Joseph Bank 
Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 44601 
Terre Haute — John E. Christen '60, 
710 Ohio, Terre Haute, Ind. 47801 
Tri-State — Robert E. Griffin '57, In­
dian Industries, 817 Maxwell Ave., 
EvansviUe. Ind. 47711 
IOWA 

Bur/mg'o»—John F. CNeifl, '52, 711 
Mominipide Drive, Burlington, 
Iowa 32601 
Des Moines—^Joseph Bisignano 59, 
2821 Patricia Dr., Des Moines, Iowa 50322 
Du6ui;ue—Louis P. Pfeiler '64, 555 
Fischer BIdg., Dubuque, Iowa 52001 
Sioux-Land — Raymond B. Duggan, 
'43, 3244 Jackson, Sioux City, Iowa S1109 
KANSAS 

Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin. '49, 
2203 College, Topeka, Kansas 66611 So/iiia—Albert J. SlcLean. '31, 1410 
Highland Ave., Salina, Kans. 47401 Wichita—NcsloT R. Weigand, Jr.. '60. 110 N. Main, Wichita, Kan. 67202 
KENTUCKY 
John N. Zufelt '57. 1723 Deer Lane, Louisville, Ky. 40205 
LOUISIANA 
New Orleans—^James D. Carrierc '62, dasco '50, 143 Garden Rd., Shrews­
2436 Joseph Ct., New Orleans, La. 70115 
Northern Louisiana—Dr. Edward R. 
Morgan, '44, 803 Jordan St., 
Shrevcport, La. 71101 
MAINE 

Jess F. DeLois '42. R.FJ>. 2, Bruns­mck, Maine 04011 
MARYLAND 
Bnftimore—Donn B. Duffy '55, 4304 Norwood Rd., Baltimore, Md. 21218 
MASSACHUSETTS 
Berkshire County—James J. O'Brien Jr '65, Western Mass. Supply Inc., 117 4th St., Pittsfield, Mass. 01201 BoKon—Richard W. Murphy '58. 540 Granite St., Braintree, Mass. 02184 Pioneer Valley — William A. Hurley, '28, 55 Maplcwood Terrace, Spring­
field, Mass. 01106 
MICHIGAN 
Battle Creek—Kaymoad R. Allen '40, 
409 Orchard PI., Battle Creek, 
Klich. 49017 
Berrien County — Dr. Paul Leonard, 
'43. 413 S. St. Joe, Nilcs, Mich. 
49120 
Blue Water District — William L. 
Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port 
Huron, Mich. 48060 
Dearborn—^Raymond H. De Fauw '47, I45S0 
6100 Oakman Blvd., Dearborn, Mich. 48126 
Be/roil—Daniel J. Kelly '57, 1201 
Indian Mound W., Birmingham, 
Mich. 48010 
f/m(—John J. Kean. '51, 830 S. Leroy St., Fenton, Mich. 48430 
Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn. '40, Wright & Zinn, Michaels BIdg. 
Ironwood, Micb. 49938 Jackson—Jama A. LcFcre '61, 3002 
NORTH DAKOTA 
W. Morrell, Jackson. Mich. 49203 
Waiiam Daner, '53, 1106 S. ffigUand
Kalamazoo—^Thomas O. McKinley, 
Acres, Bismarck, ND 58501^ 
1554 Academy, Kalamazoo. Mich. 
49007 

Lanrinf—David J. O'Leary '53, 403 Bartielt St., Lansing. Mich. 48915 Monroe—tAaA. S. Laboe '64, 311 Colonial Dr., Monroe. Mich. 48161 Muskegon — Stanley R. Tyler, Jr., '58, 2211 Reneer St., Muskegon, 
Mich. 49441 

Saginau) Valley — James H. Howell, 
'60, 3401 Washington, Midland, 
Mich. 48642 Top of Miclagan — Edward L. Molo­
ney '17, Bradner Lodge, Cheboy­
gan, Mich. 49721 

MINNESOTA 
Twin Citiel—Alhen D. Eilers, '53, 
1021 La Salle Ai'e., Minneapolis, 
Minn. 55403 

MISSISSIPPI 
P. Nicholas "Nick" Harkins '63. 4359 Brook Dr., Jackson, Miss. 39206 
MISSOURI 
Kansas Ci(y—William F. Ungashick, '43, 3954 Central St., Kansas City, Mo. 64111 
St. Louis—John R. Powers Jr '53, 1013 Tempo Dr., Creve Cocur, Mo. 63141 
MONTANA 
Robert T. O'Leary, '54. 2920 Floral Blvd., Butte, Mont. 59701 
BUlings — Thomas L. Doran Jr '47, 1810 Westwood Dr., BiUings, Mont. 59102 
NEBRASKA 
Omaha and Council Bluffs—James P. 
Kineen, '59, 508 S. 57th St., Omaha 
Neb. 68106 

NEVADA 
Northern Nevada — Afichael Monte­
hitid '61, 77 W. 5Ui, Apt. 7, Reno, 
Nev. 89503 

NEW JERSEY 
Central — Hoivard J. Gillespie '34, 
282 Garrett Rd., Mountainside, 
NJ 07092 New Jersey Shore — Richard A. Cor­
bury, NJ 07701 

Neio Jersey — William H. Crosby '61, c/o Eastman-Dillon, Union Securi­ties & Co., 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, NYC 10005 South Jersey — James B. Carbon, 'X. 624 Clinton Ave., HaddonBeld, NJ 08033 
NEW MEXICO 
John L. Keller '57, 6000 Rogers NE, 
Albuquerque, NM 87110 
NEW YORK OHIO 
Akron—James M. Keegan '59, 576 
Letchworth Dr., Akron, Ohio 44303 
Cnalon—Thomas J. Seaman. '53, 402 
Downtowner BMg., 619 N. Mbrket 
Ave., Canton, Ohio 44702 
Cincinnati—Lawrence H. Kyte '60, 
One E. 4th St., Cincinnati, Ohio 
45202 

Cleveland—Victoi J. GuIyassT '42, 412 
Women's Federal BIdg., 312 Supe­
rior Ave., N.E., Clevehmd, Ohio 
44114 Cofumdiu—Frank J. Bettendorf '59, 
2147 Elgin Rd., Columbus, Ohio 
43221 

D^ton—Ronald F. Henae '57, 4353 
Brumbaugh Blvd., Dayton, Ohio 
45416 

HomifWii—lerome A. Ryan, '41. 353 
S. "D" St., Hanulton, Ohio 45013 
Mansfield—J^mes J. Jurgens '33, 371 
Wood St., MansBOd, Ohio 44903 
Northwestern — Walter R. Bernaid, 
'30, 433 Johnson Ave., Celina, 
Ohio 45822 

Sandusky — Richard C. HoUer '47, 
2603 Eastwood Dr., Sandusky, Ohio 
44879 

Tiffin — Fred J. Wagner, '29. 152 Sycamore St., Tiffin. Ohio 44883 ToWo—Thomas J. Welly '55, 2043 Mt. Vernon. Toledo. Ohio 43607 Youngstown—Emmet J. Tyrrell '60, 
1002 Union Nad. Bank BIdg., 
Youngstown, Ohio 44503 
OKLAHOMA 
Oklahoma City — Eugene J. Schmit 
'55, 4804 N.W. 74th St., Oklahoma 
City, Okla. 73132 

rufiff—Farris P. Saffa '40, P.O. Box 
3165, Tulsa. Okla. 74101 
OREGON 
Raymond J. Martin '50. II450 S.W. Berkshire St., Portland, Ore. 97225 
PENNSYLVANIA 
Central Pennsylvania—Dr. Georve W. 
Katler, '41. U.S. Bank BUg. 
Johnstown, Pa. 15901 
Erie — Richard T. McConnick. '55, 
4425 Cheny St., Erie, Pi. 16509 
Harrisburg—Joseph Ellam '58, 4106 Hillsdale Rd., Harrisburg, Pi. 17112. Lehigh Valley — NeU F. Kelly '48, 2417 Fairview St., AUentown, Pa. 
18104 

Monangahela Valley—Louis W. Aponc, 
St. Hilaire Ronville Co., 212 Bkd. 

Albany—^Richard B, Cunningham '57, Williamsport — Joseph F. Orso, Jr., 192 Hudson River Rd., Waterford, '55 P.O. Box 27, mniamsport. 
Nlf 12188 Pa. 17701 
Buffalo—Joim F. La Duca '36, 179 
Oxford Ave., Buffalo, NY 14209 RHODE ISLAND 
Central — Kevin J. Ryan '61, 400 
AND SOUTHEASTERN 
Northfield Way, CamiUus, NY 13031 
MASSACHUSETTS 
Golden Circle—James F. McVay, '42. 
Peter J. Sutherland, '55, 121 Briar­16701 
49 Parkway Lane, Bradford, Pa. 
brook Dr., North Kingston, R. I. Mid-Hudson Valley — Dr. Henry W. 
02852 Fletcher '50, 53 Adriance Ave., 
Poughkeepsie, N.Y. 12601 SOUTH CAROLINA 
Mohawk Valley—Ra>-mond M. Belden, Julian D. Michel '43. 26 Broad St., 
'49. 1609 Mohawk St., Utica, N.Y. 
13501 

New York City—Stephen W. Mulvey 
'51, Room 2703. 1270 Avenue of Americas, New York City 10020 
Rochester—Eugene W. Yurgcalitis '57. 207 London Rd., Webster, NY 
Schenectady—Robert A. Lupe '55. 875 Westhohn Rd., Schenectady, N.Y. 
12309 

Snaeuse—See "Central New York." 
Southern Tier — Frank F. O'Brien, '34, 201 Fedenldon BIdg., Ehhira, 
NY 14900 

Trilyle Cities — Frank M. Linehan, 
'45, 2 Elizabeth St., MR 97, Bing­hamton, NY 13905 
'41. 321 Market St., Brownsville, Pi. 
15417 

Philadelphia—Patiick W. Kittredge, '58. 1500 Seven Penn Center Plaza, Philadelphia. Pi. 19103 
PiHjiursA—Michael J. Boyle '57. 423 Bucknell St., Kltsburgh. Pa. 15208 
Scranton — Richard J. Joidan '51, 1102 Woodlawn Ave., Scranton, Pi. 18509 If i;i«-Barr<—Raymond J. Sobota '49, 760 Miners Bank BMg., Wnkes­B.irre, Pa. 18701 
Charleston, S.C. 29401 
TENNESSEE 
CAn/lanoosa—Robert J. Shockey '61. 
509 Cherry St., Chattanooga, Tenn. 
37402 

Memphis — Joseph S. Signaigo '48, 
1687 Bryn Mawr Circle, German­
town. Tenn. 38038 Nashville—Kichsrd T. Martin, Jr., 
'54, Elysian Garden. Apt. G-6, 
NashviUe, Tenn. 37211 
TEXAS 
Do/fos—Robert S. Williams '59, 3522 
Gillespie Apt. 1, Dallas, Tex. 75219 
H Pojo—Gus P. Momien Jr. '49, 
4427 Oxford, El Paso, Tex. 79903 
'57. laOO Hbosioa Natnnl 
m^. , Hoostoo, Tex. 77002 
Smm Antonio—Lawrence L. Keougfa 
'61. 232 Sefoid, San Antomo, Tex. 
TtSIB 
UTAH 
WiOam C. Allen '57, 652 Aloha Kd.. 
Salt Lake Gty, Utah 84103. ^ ^ 
VIRGINIA 
A. Jeraoe Owinxs '60, 1727 Ross BUg., RichmondT Va. 23219 
WASHINGTON 
SpokMnr—leha G. Heskett, '63, South 
2724 Howard, Spokane, Wash. 
99203 
M'cirrra—Tlwmas P. May, '55, 4237 
^Av^SX , Merce, island, 
WEST VIRGINIA Cyril M. Reich. '39, 903 S. Drew St., 
St. Aians, W. Va. 25177 Crairar—John D. Julian, '40, P.O. 
Box 2063. ClaiksbuiB W.Va. 26301 OUo Kalb;—WUIiam J. BiKh '59, 
*2 ^ynwood Ave., TOeeEng, W. 
Va. 2G003 
WISCONSIN 
Fox Rivtr VtHty—JtOa K. Cschwind '56, 319 E. Frances, Appleton, Wis. 
Green Bay—Dr. Frank J. Dega, '56, 200 Arrowhead Drive, Green Bay. Wis. 54301 La Crosse—Kobat J. Young '59, 311 First St., South, LaCrescent, Minn. 
55947 
UmiU—Aofrntm H. Sta^e. '27. 102 
S. Prospect St., MeniD, Wis. 54452 
Uilwamket —Joseph A. Mesec '54, 
5311 AUenwood Lane, Hales Comers, 
Wis. 53130 . ~ 
Northwest Wiseomau — Ben If. Siri­
anni, Jr.. '60. 2719 Keith St., Eau 
Claire. Wis. S470I 
South Central —Thotlaa U . Hinkes, 
'51, 5414 Doisett Dr., MaiEson, 
Wis. 53711 
WYOMING Fbtrick H. Jlcenan, '49, ICdwest Bkh.. P.O. Box 481, Caver, Wyo. 
FOREIGN CLUBS Braiit — Thomas E. CairoU Jr '58, 
14210 Alameda Ave., Miami Lakes, 
Fla. 33012 ^ ^ 
Canada — Piul H. LaFtamboise.'34. 
Richelieu, Quebec, Canada, 
ChUe—Rev. riands A. ftot-enzano,
C.S.C.. '42. Aven. Pedro de Val­
divia ,1423, Santiago, Chile. 
Crdomhia—J, Ramon de la Torre '57, 
Calle 78. No. 84)2, Bogota, Co­
lombia, South America. 
Ecuador—^Tcmistocles Teran '49, 
Apartado 179. Quito, Ecuador. 
fariind—Donald C Lueck '50, 99 
Eaton Temce, London SWI, En­
gland. 
Manila —- Lawrence J. Gotuaco, '54, 
P.O. Box 1152, Manila. Philippines. Mexico City—Richard C Leon '44, Monte Kamerum 225, Mexico lO, 
D.F. Mexico. 
iVicaracao—Noel Pallais '49, Apar> 
tado 2119, Managua. Nicaragua. 
Northern European—tnnk T. Mc­
Guire '35. Managing Director. John 
Deere, SXTPostlich 919, 69 
Heidelberg, Germany. Poiulaii—Rev. Flank J. Burton CSC 
'33, P.O. Box 5. Notre Dame Col­
lege, Dacca-2-, East Fikistan. Panama — Lorenzo Romagosa, '45, 
P.O. Box 830-F, Panama, Panama. 
/"era—Enrique Lulli, '45, Cuzco 440, 
Lima, Pmt. 
Puerto Rico—JnBo Vizcarrondo, Jr., 
'56, P.O. Box 9004, Santuree, 
PtaertO'Rico 00938 Rom* — Vincent G. McAIoon. '34, 
(Secretafy), Filazao Biancacdo, 
Largo Bratscaccio, 82. Rome, Italr. 
San Salvador—KoUssia Duart* F. '47. 
71 Av. Norte 222, San Sahador, El 
Salvador, Central America 
Tokro—Rev. PMer T. Moriwaki. S.J., 
'65. Soohia Unrvernty 7,- Kiocho, 
Chiyodalt, Tokyo, Japan. 
Venezuela—Merwyn J. Gorman Jr. 
'39. Apartado 1651, Caracas, Ven­
ezuela. 
37 

BOOK REVIEWS 
INTERPRETATIONS OF PIERS PLOWMAN ed. by Edward Vasta, U. oF Notre Dame Press, $9.95. Prof. Vosta is head of the ND English Dept. 
Professor Vasta's book is a collec­tion of fourteen essays, each of them interesting and distinguished in its own right, all of them together forming a coherent gathering of critical insights. It will be welcomed by teachers and students of medieval literature. 
The Dreamer in Piers Plowman knows what it is like to be intensely alive in his own time, morally con­cerned and seeking, sometimes out­raged at a far-from-perfect society and frusti'ated by his own limita­tions. Although the poem has not been encompassed by a single, gen­erally accepted interpretation—^nor is it likely to be—^its vitality and imaginative power have attracted scholar-critics of uncommon ability. Professor Vasta has skillfully sorted out the main lines of critical percep­tion and brought them together. 
The collection begins with Henry 

W. Wells' incisive and meticulously stated inquiry, "The Construction of Piers Plowman," which both opened the way and set a standard for later critics. Because Piers Plowman looms so large in medieval litera­ture, the major critics dealing with it have tended to explor-e approaches and theories that illuminate much besides the poem. Included here are some of the indispensable studies that have shaped and are continuing to shape new awarenesses of medi­eval and other literature, e.g., D. W. Robertson Jr.'s and Bernard F. Huppe's application of the method based on Scriptural exegesis (com­bined from two chapters of their book. Piers Plowman and Scriptural Tradition); Robert E. Kaske's further exploration of that method in "Patristic Exegesis in the Ci'iti­cism of Medieval Literature: The Defense"; Robert Worth Frank Jr.'s "The Art of Reading Medieval Personification - Allegory." Space does not allow a complete list of the essays, but among them are such works as E. Talbot Donaldson's "Piers Plowman: The Religious Al­legory of the C Text," John J. Lawlor's "The Imaginative Unity of Piers Plowman," and Morton W. Bloomfield's "Piers Plowman as a Fourteenth-Century Apocalypse." 
To have all these insights avail­able between two covers is more than a convenience: the book is a valuable tool for beginning and advanced research. Professor Vas­ta's introduction is a brief overview of the course of Piers Plowman studies. The selected bibliography is of the same high standard as the rest of the book. Finally, a topic index — lamentably not usual in anthologies of this kind — offers a quick access to the contents for the reader who may have his own lines of inquiry. 
—Cornelius Novef/i Prof, of English Le Moyne College Syracuse, N.Y^ 
AMERICAN CATHOLICS AND SOCIAL RE­FORM—THE NEW DEAL YEARS by David J. O'Brien, Oxford University Press, 227 pp., $6.50. Mr. O'Brien is o I960 ND graduate and is currently on associate prof, of history at Loyola of Montreal. 
Like looking through a piece of clear glass David J. O'Brien sees both sides of a program or person­ality. In this book he very objec­tively traces American Catholic social reform and reformers through the turbulent thirties. By way of background he shows the rich her­itage of traditional Catholic social patterns but also the frustration and futility of trying to apply European social ideas to the American syston and culture. 
Leo XIII's Rerum Novarum 1891 and Pius XI's Quadragesima Anno 1931 call for social justice to the laborer and imply that the State must ultimately bear responsibility for the workers' welfare when the private sector does not. It is the interpretation and application of the great social encyclicals in determin­ing how much and how far the State should intervene that account for the varied social philosophies pro­posed by so many people. 
Monsignor John A. Ryan emerges as the giant of Catholic reformers preceding and during the New Deal years. The Director of the Social Action Department of the National Catholic Welfare Conference from 1919 to 1944, Msgr. Ryan devoted his efforts to teaching and applying the "social gospel" of Christ, in­fluenced by Rerum, Novarum. Msgr. Ryan's greatest contribution to the American scene was his almost life­long work to pass legislation for a minimum wagre for American work­ers. A great supporter of Franklin Roosevelt, Ryan thought he saw in the New Deal implementation of Quadragesimo Anno. 
Even though Msgr. Ryan had a realistic grasp of American politics and economics and tried to work within tile existing framework to inculcate Catholic principles the author sums him up by quoting Francis L. Brodwick Rt. Rev. New Dealer, "He was less a Catholic Ambassador to the New Deal than the New Deal's politicallegate to American Catholics." 
As a member of Shrine of the Little Flower parish in Royal Oak, Michigan, I was particularly in­terested in O'Brien's presentation of the personality behind the mellifla­ons voice of Fr. Charles E. Coughlin. Fr. Couglilin's attacks on interna­tional bankers and his "poverty in the midst of plenty" had a general appeal to Catholic Americans daring 

ALUMgNM ASK 
the Depression. It seemed for a 
little while that he might be able 
to unite his fellow Catholics. 
Leo XIII's call to the social apos­
tolate greatly influenced Coughlin 
and he referred to Leo's call to 
priests to interest themselves in 
social questions when defending him­
self from his critics. 
Mr. O'Brien views Fr. Coughlin as an egotist who was unsystematic and confused in his thinking. He also states that when Coughlin began broadcasting nationally little progress had been made in popular­izing Rerum Novarum, but Coughlin was able to reach more Catholics with its message than any other Catholic leader. Even more than Ryan, Coughlin succeeded in the early thirties in communicating the basic immorality of the establish­ment's concentration of wealth, low wages and social insecurity. 
This book teaches many lessons. Viewed from the ecumenical atmo­sphere of the late 1960's American Catholics are no longer self-con­scious of their minority. Rather than expending energy to initiate "our" programs in the image of Rerum Novarum and Quadragesima Anno we must work in unity to bring their spirit to proposed or existing programs to relieve human distress. 
We have far to go but have come a long way from Archbishop John Ireland's attempts to adapt the Catholic Church to America in the late nineteenth century. We have survived the insistence of some bishops to preserve ethnic identities in the Church. We have progressed to active and open participation in labor unions. We accept and follow Dorothy Dajr's involvement. We have seen an American Catholic elected President. 
—Nancy Shoup Mrs. Shoup, the mother of 4, is involved in social action groups in the Detroit area. 
CIA AND DOW 
"Tyranny" is a strong word but its 
use by the Rev. Theodore M. Hes-
burgh was justified in denouncing the 
student demonstration that halted the 
Central Intelligence Agency inter­
views at ND. 
Words, however, will not sufiBce. Only by exercising its authority vig­orously through the imposition of stringent penalties and, if need b^ expulsion, will the school succeed in preventing the recurrence of such out­rages. 
We must at all times protect the right to dissent but we must also re­spect and safeguard the rights of those against whom the dissent is directed. In their obvious attempts to suppress the free expression of ideas only because they are in disagreement with them, student demonstrators acted more like nazis, fascists and communists rather than the demo­cratic idealists they profess to be. 
In a letter to the student body Father Hesburgh said: "I would he inclined to use the occasion for the greater profit in the future by not suspending them, but by declaring our intentions clearly for any future recurrence." 
This should be enough to put the demonstrators on notice. Only an all­bnt-irreducible minority of the stu­dents participate in these violent pro­tests. Suspension would not be ade­quate punishment for a repetition of their misdeeds. Only expulsion would fit the offense. 
U. Pat Cohen '27 
725 B. Eekman South Bend, Ind. 
Neither the CIA nor Dow (or GM or AT&T, etc), hopefully, can by dictate or implication, have any bear­ing on manners, decency, respon­sibility, freedom, or truth, at Notre Dame. The same must be said for 
students pressing their will upon 
others by number, embarrassmenl^ or 
harassment. 
Dissent does not dictate withdrawal nor does acclamation describe more than mutual assent. The University must accept responsible dissent—en­courage it. The meaning of respon­sibility implies dissent, as well as recognition. 
The world needs the University, 

and both must reconcile dynamism 
and maturity—without busting up the 
furniture. 
—Tftofflos M. F/eming '59 
M5-47 Southwest thd. 
Kansoi City, Kansas 

In the Dec.-Jan. ALUHNITS, Mr. Rosenthal calls for a witch hunt; Mr. Conklin claims the witches are in­significant; and Mr. McCauley scape­goats them to sell his own view. 
For over a year petitions, letters, articles, bills, and demonstrations on the recruiting issue were ignored by the Administration. Now that stu­dents have moved to civQ disobedience, polemics aflSrm that free speech is served by job interviews, to which a select few are admitted, of whom none can ask the significant questions. The Student Senate calls for discus­sion of the real issues. 
We would all have supported Cier­man students' lying-in.before Gestapo recruiters; do- not the interests of a Christian community demand similar action toward an organization which has betrayed American ideals in Viet­nam, Guatemala, the Bay of Figs, and elsewhere, and infiltrated American student organizations and university programs? Otherwise, like the Phar­isees who condemned disruption in the temple^ we worship a lower law, violate a higher one, and ignore a greater issue. 
—rVmothy J. MocCorry '70 Notre Dam; Ind. 46556 

I'm somewhat tardy with my '68 do­nation, but the spirit was willing. 
Let me make just a few comments, as solicited by the ALUMNUS. Many of us are trying to fairly judge the pro­test actions of the students. We recog­nize that idealism and empathy with world crises ai-e desperately needed today — in us as well as in youth. But we know, too, that evolutionaiy change is more meaningful and last­ing than revolutionary. 
Many of us are unsure of the course of social, political and reli­gious currents, but we still consider ourselves as within these currents and responsive to them. We also re­flect gratefully on what they have given to us and how they have shaped us. We, therefore, won't destroy what has been left to us to improve and direct. We will give our time, our tal­ents and even our lives to perpetuate a system in which dissent is toler­ated; but anarchy very quickly de­sensitizes us to the dissidents and their goals. We'U never turn away a new thought, but we'll critically weigh the means by which it's pre­sented. 
As Alumni, deeply responsive to both the Ideal and to the Eeality of Notre Dame, we ask that the admin­istration exhibit genuine concern for the student view, but that the reali­ties of the student/school relationship be kept in sight. Students are, by their position, transitory, passing through. They leave their unique con­tributions, but they don't share in the continuum of responsibility and di­rection that falls to the administra­tion and to the teachers. It is, after all, a time more to learn than to teach, moi-e to obey than to govei-n — and this is as it should be. Students are not to be treated as children — and that era is behind us — but neither are they peers. Life does have its priorities and society its order of position. 
We ask a patient Lord to guide us all in our judgments — whether they concern home, school, government or Church — and we'i-e pretty sure He'll do just that .. . if we give Him a little time and a fair amount of co­operation. 
John l. Roche '58 
449 Tower St. Paul, Minn. 55119 
HUMANAE VITAE 

In Huvianae Vitae the Pope has spoken clearly, beautifully and with divine wisdom. 
Far from "inadequate informa­tion," His Holiness' encyclical is obvi­ously based upon exhaustive research, deep thought, divine inspiration and perhaps the voice of God, which seems to say, "I am the Creator — the Mas­ter of life and death. Those who would attempt to assume my domain will only destroy themselves." 
Too many of our theologians are attempting to find some moral justifi­cation for the frusti-ation of God's purpose of creation, rather than de­voting their eiforts to the determina­tion of God's will. 
The jurisdiction over the transmis­sion of life transcends Church law. It is universal by its vei-y nature. Even an atheist must find offensive the transgression of the laws of na­ture which are presumed to control his existence. History has proven, and will prove again, that government en­croachment on the process of proci'ea­tion is irrational. It serves only to deprive mothers of the greatest joy and happiness. 
Father Hesbui-gh has cautioned against the pursuit of "Myths." The fear of-a population calamity is an example of such kind of myth. Demographers place some figures in a machine and the resultant statistics are accepted without giving consider­ation to other and unknown factors, to man's ingenuity, or to the interven­tion of God. One touch of the atom bomb could eliminate all population problems. 
Would it not be better if the sci­entists and sociologists, moved by compassion, or otherwise, were to lend their learning to the perfection of Church sanctioned, and superior, means of family planning. For exam­ple, to the research initiated at Notre Dame by our own Sister Jean Vian­ney; thus remaining within the scope of the Creator's plan. God expects His gifts to be used with proper re­straint, for the purpose for which He intended them. 
The Pope has sought and found the truth and has courageously presented it. It is not a "debatable" issue. It is the will of God and should be accepted as such. 
The good mothers of the world who cooperate with the Creator in the hap­piness of giving life will come to know God and share a part of heaven. God will surely bless them. 
George G. Kerver '22 

I28J Buckley Lokewood, Ohio 
In view of the apparently substantial negative response to Dr. Shuster's editorial on the encyclical, I would like to add that I thought Dr. Shuster's article was both proper and accurate, and you should know that there are a few progressive liberals among the Notre Dame alumni who support Dr. Shuster and his col­leagues. 

Gerald F. Weyer '58 Pofomoc, Maryland 





FEATURE 

Faces Of Another Notre Dame Team 
"LAC E the face? It's the fellow who stirs the giant pots in the Notre Dame dining hall, or the guy who unloads coal at the power plant, or the lady who makes your son's bed every morning. The faces are the people and the people, some 2,000 of them, are the ones who help run the ND show every day of the year whether the faculty and students are around or not. 
*jry 
-m^­

«i«spaasa:as»ii»i"3=i;iy.ft»^«;j.ii^' 
1^ Takes AH Kinds 
Try classifying, binding, retrieving, checking out and repairing 900 thousand volumes and you'll soon identify with the 90 staff members of ND's Jlemorial Library. And know also, that you would have to mother more than 45 thousand new offspring a year in order to be part of the group. 
And then there ai-e the Brothers in their government-operation Post Office. The postal staff handle more than 10 million outgoing pieces of mail annually and an almost equal amount of incoming mail. Seasons are somewhat confused for this post office. Its peak comes with Valentine's Day rather than Christmas and JNIother's Day is a close second. 
The people behind the scenes at Notre Dame comprise more than two-thirds of the total University personnel. And they support Uncle Sam with more than $1 million in taxes annually. If they were to be benched members of the team, this Campus would find it tough to be a winner. 
To keep the fires out and the coal moving is a daily challenge. 
The Peopie Who Hetp 
Eggs, money, mail and mop. The objects differ but the team spirit is all the same. 
Make Notice Dame Tick 
Call them staff, maintenance, maids, janitors, postal clerks, plumbers, cooks or just plain laboi-ers, they arc a major factor in Notre Dame's ability to open its doors daily. At the same time they are the unknown force, the people who are I'arely seen and seldom recognized for their important contribution to the ND story. 
The hub of any all-male institution — academics aside — is the food seixice system. Tlie Fighting Irish feeders, and there ai-e more than 300 of them, son-e more than 21-: million meals annually. They pump 1,.300 gallons of milk a day into the student body and the preparation of one of their steak meals alone entails the use of more than .5,000 pounds of midwestern beef. Top that off with a choice of three desserts baked by the ND bakery. 
The ND laimdry staff, numbering more than 1-50, collects, cleans, starches and presses more than 370,000 shirts annually for the Beau Brummels of the Golden Dome. 
During the dead of winter when Lake Jlichigan and the regular cold blasts from up north combine to keep things on the frigid side, the ND power plant burns up more than 200 tons of raw coal a day to heat and light the Campus. Featuring its own coal dock, diesel engine and rail tie-in, the plant pi'oduces more than 35 million kilo­watt hours of electricity a year. 
Likewise when things get hot around the Campus the ND fire­fighting unit swings into action. JIaking an average of eight runs a month, the unit includes 17 firemen during the day, eight at night and three engines including a hook and ladder unit. 
Photos by Dick Stevens 

Personnel Director Joe O'Brien (right) calls many of the plays. 
L—i-^**^ 
ViT. Francis ?. Clai'k 
Head, Microfilming Memorial Library Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Vholo n.v Dhl: Suvcr. 
What Priee Glory! 
> HdSi: may look like leal tears but for this yoiinir lady it only luirts for a little whik—as loni; as it takes the NI) student lindy lu eat a tuli of onions. To iret the story on her and a lot of j;-iH"l iieoiile like lier take a look at thi; Al.rMM's feature inside. 








