The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

The Notre Dame 
ALUMNUS 
Vol. 23 DECEMBER.. 1945 No. 6 
Lay Trustees' Edition 
The Alumni Association dedicates this issue to the 
Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the University on 
the occasion of the Board's twenty-fifth anniversary. 
The Noire Dame Alumnus 

GIVE THEM A BREAK All this illustrates our opening point. Give the returning Vets an initial break 

Alu4mU RelifdtuU BuUeiin 
and they will surprise you ^^-ith their By BEV. JOHN P. JXSCO, C.S.C, "25 eagerness to pitch in and help. 
Note: The guest \\Titer of the "Alumni Reli­gious Bulletin" this month. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, '38, Chaplain, Notre Dame Veterans' Club, wishes to thank Father Lynch, 
G.S.C. for his kindness in suggesting this ar­ticle, which we have discussed on various occa­sions these past months. 
VETERANS ON THE MARCH 

The Veterans are on the march again. This time it is .the march back. Back to home and work and school. Back to all those little things they dreamed about during the dark days of the past few years. 
But everything isn't rosy. The Veter­ans come back to some mighty unpleas­ant things too. There is the general uncertainty in international politics as to the peace so hard fought for, the unrest and violence characterizing labor and race relations, courts crammed with more divorce cases than any civilized country has ever seen. 
ANOTHER PROBLEM? 

Many people have been wondering what the Vets would do about it, whether they too will be another problem. Some popular articles would have us believe that the majority of the Vets are psycho cases to be handled only with the finished skill of a tried psychologist. 
Obviously, a young man does not go into the tremendous machine of war, 
'turn at high speed under abnormal ten­sion for several months or years, and re­turn to civilian life exactly the same as he left. But we miss the point if we take it for granted that he is coming back worse. He is coming back with some needs, but the needs are negligible as compared with the new potentialities he has acquired to take on a difficult job and see it through. He does not want to be coddled. Yet he does want to be given a decent break, and a chance to prove him­self. 
The local picture here at Notre Dame is a case in point. Here the Vets are given an initial break that you have ex­perienced—a quite peaceful atmosphere ~ that breathes of God, a sympathetic corps of men who are available and help­ful in the many individual problems in­cidental to a new way of life. Given that initial break, the Vets are carrying on by themselves. They have banded into a club, to do the job together, in peace as in war, with that same spirit of sacrifice and comradeship so typical of life in the Service. 
VETS ANSWER A VET NEED 

A group of them who sparked the Vets 
Club last semester came back from their, 
short vacation a day early to help their 
new, incoming buddies. Sizing up their 
own difficulties on arriving here, they 
procured hundreds of campus maps and 
printed simple directions for registra­
tion on the back of them. Information 
booths were set up and manned by Vets 
at the main entrance and administration 
building during registration. 
A super smoker was planned and exe­cuted by the old Vets a few nights later. It had everything—a real Notre Dame welcome by the powers-that-be, a chal­lenge to Vets by Vets to cari-y on the best of the Notre Dame spirit now that they are a part of Notre Dame, enter­tainment by the school band, a film show­ing this year's Notre Dame-Navy thrill­er, and a round of refreshments that exhausted the small but willing treasury of the Vets Club. 575 Vets were on hand for the smoker. They felt welcome too, because the old Vets had written a let­ter to them while they were still at home, awaiting the D-Day of registration. 
VETS AT WORK The new Vets have risen to the occa­sion too. Already they have sensed the need for a revival of the pre-war Notre Dame round of activities. Their first' thought is for the boys who were here and won't be coming back. That calls for an all-out monthly Mass and Communion for deceased Notre Dame Vets, with a word of sympathy to their folks back home at Christmas. Then there are these post-war prob­lems too—^politics, labor, race, family, ed­ucation. Many of the faculty are well posted on the right answers, so the Vets are arranging discussion groups to get the word, and later to pass the word around by campus Town Hall meetings. New Guinea, Iceland and all those other outposts where the boys lived and fought these past years were not espe­cially noted for their social life. So now they dicker with the Palais Royale, the gii'ls at St. Mary's, the school swing band, and there you have it. The Vets 
club is sponsoring dances for the school. Plays and minstrels are in the offing too. In their spare time, the Vets are tak­ing a hand in reactivating the old famil­iar intra-mural sports program. It does not take long to get the feel of a basket­ball again, and it is more pleasant to the 
touch than the controls of a bomber. 
Badin Hall (veteran of wars) has practically all Vets. When they found that an unpainted floor was delaying the opening of our Chapel, they swarmed down Saturday afternoon and painted the floor themselves. The job would have been a credit to the Seabees! The benches had not yet arrived Monday morning, but they all came down for Mass any way, knelt on the bare floor, and flocked to Communion in such numbers that only four hosts were left in the ciborium consecrated that morning. 
You never met a more mature, cheery —yes, even studious group of men. They have come back to start college at 23, or 25, or 28, and they mean business. One boj''s father was killed in an accident last week, and without a word from us, they raised a huge spiritual bouquet, and wired flowers. They surprise you every day with gems like this that never ap­peared in the scandal sheets: "Do you like this picture of Our Lady, Father? We had it tacked up in our Flying Fort. The ship was named after her; we called it the 'Queen of Queens.'" 
YOURS FOR THE ASKING: REAL LEADERS 

Maybe Notre Dame inspires them more than other places would, but even much of what they are doing here would not have been done if there had not been an organized, intelligently planned attempt to make them feel at home, and to give them something to do. 
To get back to you, every alumni club and parish group has things to be done, things urgently necessary, that can well use the enthusiasm and initiative of these returning Vets. We submit the opin­ion that they are yours for the asking, if you can surmount the inevitable in­ertia that grips them after the comple­tion of the great task they have been pursuing East and West. 
If you can welcome them, help them get started those first few weeks after discharge, make them feel and he part of a good organization, outline to them the task that lies ahead, well, if yon do this all you will need from then on" is the breaks, for the sky is the limit. And that is the way it should be. For they have given some of the best years of their lives, faced death in a thousand forms, to achieve something worth living for as well as worth dying for. Now is the time to live. Help them make that 'something real, and they will make it 
real for you too. 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is pu}>IIshoil bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. Entered. 
iiH second class matter Uctober l, 1939, at the Fostofhce. Xotre Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 
24, 1012. Member of the ^\merican Alumni Council and of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. 
James E. Annstrong. '25. Editor; WlUam B. Doolay, '26, Managing Editor 
Vol.23 DECEMBER, 1945 No. 6 
University Observes Trustees Anniversary 
Convocation in Washington Hall on Nov. 16 includes Address by Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen; Bishop John F. O'Hara Presides; Commemorative Silver Plaques Presented to Board Members. 
With impressive and significant cere­monies, Notre Dame commemorated on Nov. 16 the Silver Jubilee of the foun­dation of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees. 
Families of the present Board mem­bers attended the special convocation in Washington Hall on the evening of the 16th which paid tribute to the illustrious history and personnel of this group which has contributed greatly to the ex­pansion of the University in the last quarter century. Commemorative silver plaques were presented to Board mem­bers. 
A series of events during the day, in­cluding the regular semi-annual meeting of the Board, was climaxed by the con­vocation. Right Rev. Fulton J. Sheen, LL.D., was the principal speaker for the occasion. Speaking generally in the field of Catholic education and the value of those who have supported it, Monsignor Sheen said that in the teachings of the Church through religious schools lies the only hope of world peace. 
"Our darkness today," said Monsig;nor 
Sheen, "is not because there are no stars; it is rather because men have lost the capacity to see them. The world boasts that it knows its own mind, but it does not know its own heart. It went to war to prevent appeasement, and not by out-appeasing Munich will it find peace, but by strong afiirmation of those freedoms which our Declaration of In­dependence states are rooted in God." 
Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, CS.C, D.D., bishop of Buffalo, former president of Notre Dame, presided at the convoca­tion. In one of his typical brief and ana-
The trustees at their meeting of Nov. 16. Left to right, first row: Rer. John J. Coronangli. C.S.C.; Geotg* W. Stroke. C Bor Mc-Canna. John Moody. Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, CS.CM Most Rev. John F. OUara. C.S.C; Peter C. BeillT. Joaeph P. Keanedr. Ber. J. Hugh ODonnell, Frank C. Walker. Ernest M. Morris. 
Rear row: Vniliam J. Broderick, comptroller of the Universitr: Brother Albinus, CS. C treasurer of the UniTersitr; Thomas K. Beacom. Jr„ Joseph A. LaFortune. John P. Murphy. Bernard J. Voll. Edward J. Doyle. VKlliam J. Corbett John C. Tnlly. Walter Dnncan. Terence B. Cosgrove. 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 

lytical talks he said that he felt that the work of the Board of Trustees during the years had been justified for its mem­bers in the manner in which the Notre Dame men of these years had kept faith with the principles of the University in the great crises they had been through, outstandingly in the record of World War II. 
Kev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, presi­dent of the University, opened the speaking program. Father O'Donnell said: 
"This special convocation is a very happy occasion for the family of Notre Dame, because it gives us an opportunity to acknowledge publicly our deep grati­tude and appreciation to the loyal mem­bers of our Associate Board of Lay Trustees. 
"Tonight our thoughts naturally turn to a truly priestly priest and finished scholar, the beloved Father James A. Bums, of blessed memory. A man of vision, a man of courage, a man of faith. Father Bums left an indelible impression on his Alma Mater as her tenth president. Before taking office in 1919, he had served since 1900 as presi­dent and superior of Holy Cross Col­lege at the Catholic University in Wash­ington. While there he earned the cov­eted doctor's degree in course. He helped form the National Catholic Education Association, and became its first vice president.~iBe manifested a warm in­terest in^ the policies of the Catholic University, and was a tower of strength to succeeding administrations. And, aside from, supervising the training of several hundred priests of Holy Cross and influencing their lives, he wrote three books which to this day are con­sidered classic in the field of Catholic education. 
"So when the beloved Father John Cavanaugh resigned after 14 very fruit­ful and extraordinary years as presi­dent, he was succeeded by his friend and schoolmate. Father Bums. With his rich background in educational a£Fairs that he had acquired in Washington, Father Bums envisioned Notre Dame not only as a college, but as a great Catholic university. He set about immediately to reorganize the academic regimen in accordance with progressive standards. To this end, he saw to the establishment of a Committee on Graduate Study, which was later to become a division of the University. 
"But if this division were to prosper, then it was imperative that it have fi­nancial endowment. Accordingly, Father Burns laid plans for a campaign with a goal of one million dollars. The cam­paign was a success. He then gave his attention to the serious problem of ad­ministering the fund. Thus we have the beginning of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees, a distinguished group of business and. professional men, legally incorporated, who were to have jurisdic­tion in the administering of the endow­ment portfolio. And it is this devoted group that the University collectively honors tonight. And while we honor the living, we are also mindful of the noble souls of the departed trustees now at rest with the Master. 
"Father Bums' vision and courage brought into existence our Board of Lay Trustees, and the Board itself has more than justified such vision and courage. Since 1920 it has met regnilarly and conducted its affairs quietly and effi­ciently, without fanfare or worldly adu­lation. The record speaks for itself. From the initial million, gentlemen, you have seen the portfolio, because of handsome g:ifts and your own prudent adminis­tration, increase almost fivefold. Little wonder that my predecessors who are here tonight. Bishop O'Hara and Father 
leseph P. Kennedy owaits plaque. Behind him. Joseph L. La Fortune. J. J. O'Brien. John C. Tully and Bemord J. Voll. 
Matthew Walsh, join me in telling you that Notre Dame has been singularly blessed in having such a loyal group of trustees. 
"Some of you belong to us in an inti­mate way. You received your education here and have grrown to man's estate reflecting glory on Notre Dame. The others—the non-alumni who have come to love this old school as their very own—are shining exemplars of brilliant success achieved in the truly American way. All of you have this in common: with the administration, faculty, alumni, and students you have aided materially in bringing to the University national and international acclaim as one of America's outstanding institutions of learning. 
"As you leave this campus tonight with the trustees' award especially de­sigfned for the occasion, may I tell you that you go forth with a benediction from the family of Notre Dame who will always remember you and your dear ones in our prayers for what you have truly meant to us: faithful and devoted custodians of one of Notre Dame's pre­cious stewardships." 
The history of the Board has had par­ticular sigrnificance for alumni. Founded by a great alumnus-president, the late Bev. James A. Bums, C.S.C, great Cath­olic educator, the Board has been from the start one-half alumni in its member­ship, and has brought to the progress of the University in its most critical years the counsel of its outstanding alumni. 
Under Rev. Matthew Walsh, Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, Rev. John F. O'Hara, and Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, with the many and expanding problems of thdr administrations and the crises of economic depressions and world war, the Board of Lay Trustees has long since proved its value. From its members, close to the problems of Notre Dame and most understanding of her opportunities, ^ha,Te come the major bequests and bene­
- factions so vital to the continuation of progress. 
That is why, for alumni, it was most fitting that the spokesman for the Board should be Byron V. Kanaley, '04, for 12 years its chairman, (succeeded at this meeting by the former vice-president of the Board, Peter C. Reilly, Indianapolis). And in the very succinct and competent address of the former chairman, also former president of the Alunmi Associa­tion, lies the material concerning the Board of the most immediate significance to all alumni. 
"I know that I speak for all the Lay Trustees of the University when I tell Father O'Donnell that we are grateful 
Byron V. Koncdey. '04, the retiring Bocord president 

indeed for this gracious recognition of what he has been pleased to describe as our services to Notre Dame. And I know I convey the feelings of the Board when I say that individually and as a group we deeply appreciate the opportunity we have had to aid in the progress of a University which has grown so surely and steadily in academic stature and which has so much to contribute to life in these United States. 
"We are fortunate tonight to have with us two former presidents of the Univer­sity, Bishop O'Hara and Father Walsh, who were very great administrators in­deed, and their successor Father O'Don­nell, whose sure hand has guided the University through the unprecedented crisis of this war-time period. 
"The word trust is a simple word but there is none that implies more of moral strength, of faith, of solemn purpose than this word. No more can be said of any man, or any institution, than 'they were faithful to their trust.' 
"The history of this University is the beautiful and stirring story of the carry­ing out of a sacred trust. 
"It seems a long time ago, as indeed it is a long time ago as the time of men is measured, it's a century and three years ago this very month, that a trust was created on a bitterly cold November morning, on the shores of yonder lake a few hundred yards from where we are now gathered, a trust in which a few humble Brothers of Holy Cross, and a priest of Holy Cross, Father Sorin, un­dertook to found here an institution of Christian education dedicated to Our Lady. We know, and the world knows, how faithfully that trust has been car­ried out. 
"Another trust, the Silver Anniversary which we are commemorating tonight, was undertaken a quarter of a century ago. At that time Notre Dame was rich in tradition and scholarship and leader­ship but comparatively poor in material resources. 
"The president at that time. Rev. Dr. James A. Bums, instituted an endow­ment program, and founded the Lay Board of Trustees in 1920 to administer permanent funds of the University. Thus was created a trust relationship between the University and the Board of Lay Trustees. In these 25 years 46 men, in­cluding the present incumbents, have held membership among the Lay Trus­tees. Some have been alumni and some non-alumni, as the by-laws provide. 
"The first president of the Board was Mr. William P. Breen of the class of '77. Mr. Breen because of ill health served less than a year, and was succeed­ed by Mr. Albert R. Erskine who served from 1921 to the time of his death in 1933. Those two administrations cover the early and formative, and some of the most important years of the Board. Poli­cies were formed and standards set which in the main, with changes here and there caused by altered times, have been closely adhered to. 
"The best evidence of the wise policies of the Board is, that during and after the severe depression years, and now, the quality, and value per dollar, of the assets of the Board, compared most fav­orably with those of any fiduciary insti­tution in America. 
"The Board has been faithful to that trust in thought and word and deed through a quarter of a century. Its mem­bers, without a single exception, through all those years, have given without thought of reward, unstintedly and un­reservedly of time and energy and thought, and most important of all, of devotion. 
"In the last decade the funds entrust­ed to its care have increased over fourr fold. Ten years ago the funds were a little over a million dollars. Today, they are over four millions. This is not taking account of the largest single gift an­nounced by the University in its history, made recently by Mr. Reilly, a member of our Board, or of other gifts made re­cently. This growth has been made pos­sible very largely by the generous gifts of men devoted to the ideals this Uni­versity stands for. 
"Very serious financial problems lie ahead for Notre Dame, as for all private institutions of higher learning. Notre Dame has many important needs to be met in scholarships, in buildings, in equipment, in teaching endowments, in laboratories, in rehabilitation. We be­lieve that ways and means will be found somehow to meet those urgent needs of this University which is growing in strength of scholarship, in Christian leadership, growing in an ever lengthen­ing line of young men graduated in the ideals of. Christian culture. 
"Our country needs these young men as never before. Never in the history of Christian times have we looked out on so sorry a world; upon so much confu­sion, distrust, hatred and despair; na­tion arrayed against nation; class agfainst class; labor against capital. 
"Our country needs these young men who are taught here that a nation that has lost its spiritual roots is a dying civilization, and that there is nothing 
The newly eladad ^c»-PltMidMl ei th* Beard. E. M. Koffin IK. racaivw ploqn*. BaUiid Urn ia WSBam I. CcthM. 
Biabop Joba F. OVeaa, C.S.C., DJ>., going ibrough •anctuarr 9ate in Sacred Heart Chuicb. which be made famous, accompanied by Revs. 'WmUam J. Dobeny. 
C£.Cw right and I. Howard Eenna, CS.C. 

that can revive it but a return to Him 
who is the Way, the Truth and the Life. 
And He who rules over all may place 
that Stone which the builders have re­
jected at the head of the corner, so that 
peace and hope and new life and ambi­
tion may come again to our people, and 
to all the peoples of the earth who all 
too long have sitten in darkness and the 
shadow of death. 
"For in God's good time, and His own good way, He may turn over this topsy­turvy world, with man's feet planted firmly upon the earth, but with his face lifted once more to the stars. And when that time shall come, it will surely come largely through the influence of the young generation of America, a part of which leaves each year from the doors of this University. 
"To that work, for God and Country, Notre Dame is dedicated as a sacred trust. The Board of Lay Trustees has faith that means will be found for the University of Our Lady to carry out that trust." 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, CS.C, served as general chairman of the anniversary program. A reception in the University parlors followed the convocation. 
On Saturday, members of the Board 

and their families were guests of Father 
O'Donnell at the Northwestern game in 
Evanston. 
Almost buried in the more social as­pects of the week-end was the election of new officers, with Mr. Peter C. Reilly of Indianapolis becoming president of the Board, Mr. E. M. Morris, '06, South Bend, vice-president, and Mr. Thomas 
H. Beacom, '20, Chicago, treasurer. 
In the following list of members of the Board who served from time to time since its foundation, alumni will find a record of unselfish service of men, half of them fellow-alumni, whose leadership is reflected in the constant progress of Notre Dame: 
George M. Anson, '95, llerriU, Wis., 1931-1940 Thomas H. Beacom, Jr., '20, Winnetka, 111., 44­
Wm. P. Breen. '77, Ft. Waj-ne. Ind., 1920-1930 Josjeph Sr. Bj-rne, '79, X'eK-ark, N. J., 1920-1924 James D. Caller}-, '73, Pittsburgh, Pa., 1920-1925 JIattlieiv J. Carrey, Neiv- Torts City, 1931-1941 Warren A. Cartier. '87, Ludington, Mich. 1920-34 William J. Corbett, Chicago, 111., 1941­Terence B. Cosgrove, '06, Los Angeles, Cal. 194X­John F. Gushing. 'OC. Chicago. III.. 1929-1935 Edward J. Doyle, Chicago, 111., 1931­Walter Duncan, '12. LaSalle, 111.. 1941­Albert Russel Erskine, South Bend, Ind-, 1921-33 Charles T. Fisher. Detroit, Mich., 1941­Frod J. Fisher. Detroit, Mich., 1923-1941 Pranli E. Herlng, '98, South Bend, Ind., 1927-43 Edward N. Hurley, Chicago, 111., 1920-W33 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 


FINAL MIDSHIPMEN CLASS 

Vice-Admiral Aubrey W. Fitch, USN, superintendent of the United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md., was the principal speaker as the 11th and last class of midshipmen, numbering 940, was gnraduated on Nov. 2 from the U.S. Naval Reserve Midshipmen's School at Notre Dame. 
The graduation of the final class brought to more than 10,000 the number of naval oflScers who had been trained in the school since it was opened in April, 1942. 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, CS.C, presi­dent, also spoke at the graduation cere­monies, as did Capt. J. Richard Barry, USN, commandant of the school. Rev. Charles Tupper Baillie, D.D., of the First Presbyterian Church, South Bend, of­fered the invocation and Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, CS.C, vice-president of the University, gave the benediction. The midshipmen's band and choir supplied the music. 
With the closing of the local midship­men's school, three of the four residence halls occupied by midshipmen, Lyons, Morrissey and Howard, have been taken over by the group of naval trainees now of the University—NROTC's, V-12's and V-5's (all University students). Badin, the fourth hall occupied by midshipmen, is now used by civilians, largely at pres­ent by returned veterans. 
Most of the oflScers and "ship's com­pany" who taught in and administered the aifairs of the midshipmen's school have left the campus. On Dec. 1, Captain Barry officially marked the closing of the school by turning over to the University, represented by Father O'Donnell, the midshipmen colors, which will be per­manently kept in the University library. 
John W. j;ohnson, Kokomo, Ind., 1920-1922 Byron V. Kanaley, '04, Chicago, 111., 1925­Joseph P. Kennedy, New^ York City, 1941­Joseph A. liiFortune, '18, Tulsa, Okla., 1941­Angus D. McDonald, '00, N. Y.-Frisco, 1923-41 Constantine E. McGulre. Wash., D. C.. 1939­
C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis., 1931­Clement C. Mitchell, '02, Chicago, 1920-25:31-33 John Moody, New York City, 1936­Emest SL Morris, '06, South Bend, Ind., 1939­Samuel T. Murdock. "SO. I'd'polls, Ind., 1920-31 Daniel p. Murphy, '95, Rockaway, N. J., 1925-31 John P. Murphy, '12, Cleveland, O., 1933­John H. Neeson, '03, Philadelphia, Pa., 1936-45 George L. O'Brien, '93. South Bend, Ind., 1941-43 John J. O'Brien, South Bend, Ind., 1941­Miles W. O'Brien, South Bend. Ind., 1922-1936 
I. A. O'Shaughnessy, St. Paul, Minn., 1943­Max Pam, Chicago, 111., 1923-1925 James J. Phelan, Boston, Mass., 1926-1934 William C. Potter, Kew York City, 1934­Peter C. Reilly, Indianapolis, Ind., 1934­Francis J. Reitz. Evansville, Ind., 1920-1930 Solon O. Richardson, Toledo, C, 1920-1927 Grattan T. Stanford. '04, Xew York City, 1935­George W. Strake, Houston, Texas, 1944­John C. Tally. '11. LaGrangc, III., 1942­Bernard J. Voll, '17, South Bend, Ind., 1943­Frank C. Walker, '09, N. Y.-WashiDgton, 1931­


P. C. Reilly Gives Million to Notre Dome 
Largest Single Gift to the University; income from Endow­ment to be Used Only in Field of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering; Donor Member of Trustee Board Since 1934. 
The gift of one million dollars to the University by Peter C. Reilly, president of the Reilly Tar and Chemical Corp., Indianapolis, was announced on Oct. 15 by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University. 
This contribution, largest single gift in the history of the University, is to be known as the P. C. Reilly Science Fund. It is to be an endowment, and Mr. Reilly has specified that the income from the endowment be used only in the field of chemistry and chemical en­gineering, in the folowing manner: 
(a) One (1) annual fellowship of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) awarded to the outstanding lay member of the graduating class in chemistry or chemi­cal engineering departments of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, (b) Four (4) annual graduate non-teaching fellow­ships in chemistry or chemical engineer­ing of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) each for graduates of chemistry or chem­ical engineering from Notre Dame or schools other than Notre Dame, (c) Five Thousand ($5,000.00) annually as an honorarium to an outstanding chemist or chemical engineer for a one-semester series of lectures at the University. 
At the end of eight years, the num­ber of annual graduate non-teaching fellowships shall be increased as the in­come from the fund increases. In the fifteenth year of the fund, the income from the accumulated capital fund shall be divided equally, fifty percent to be used for fellowships and lectures and fifty percent to be added to the capital fund. 
The terms of the gift further provide that when the capital fund reaches five million dollars, the University shall have full use of the income, unqualified, ex­cept that it be used in the field of chem­istry and other sciences. 
Mr. Reilly, a member of Notre Dame's Board of Lay Trustees since 1934, has long been a pioneer in the development of coal-tar products. He has sought to increase the prestige of America in the field of science, particularly chemical engineering, to a position where it will no longer be secondary to Europe. It is Mr. Reilly's hope that his gift will en­able Notre Dame to take its place among the leaders of the world in chemistry. 
In making the contribution, Mr. Reilly stated: "I make this contribution to Notre Dame because of the University's announced determination to continue its aggressive advances in the field of chem­istry, and because it seems clear to me that the science of chemistry is to play an ever more dominant role in the prog­ress of our civilization. 
Peter C Beillr 

"The University's scientific accomplish­ments in chemical research under men like Father Nieuwland have already been internationally acclaimed and I think that, through this newly-organized, pro­gressive eifort, Notre Dame's work in chemistry may well move ahead of that produced in the leading institutions of Europe." 
In accepting the gift in the name of the University, Father O'Donnell made the following statement: "The benefac­tion of Mr. Peter C. Reilly of Indianap­olis, for 11 years an esteemed member of our Associated Board of Lay Trus­tees, is the largest single gift that the University of Notre Dame has ever an­nounced. Because of its wise and far-
reaching terms, it is also one of the most 
pleasing and acceptable gifts. 
"The new Peter C. Reilly Science Foundation affords marvdous opportuni­ties for gifted young students of chem­istry here at Notre Dame and in other American universities who want to go on for advanced work. 
"A student of De LaSalle Academy of Providence, R, I., Mr. Reilly is a prod-, uct of Catholic education and of the American system of free enterprise, and exemplifies in his life certain important characteristics of the true scientist. Through initiative, unswerving honesty of purpose, and intelligent hard work, he himself rose to success, and with true vision he has provided important aid and incentive ix» young chemists of merit in this day and for years to come. The per­petual memorial he has established at Notre Dame is intended to produce great chemists, men of firm character and in­genious learning, who will advance the science itself and contribute wisely and richly to the society in which they must play a leading part." 
Mr. Reilly, after attending De La­Salle Academy, became, associated in 1886 with the Mica Roofing Co. in New York City. This firm, which was one of the original coal-tar distillers in the United States, was succeeded by the Western Chemical Co. in Indianapolis and Mr. Reilly was sent to Indianapolis to manage the business. 
He opened his own business in India­napolis in 1900 under the name of the Western Chemical Co^, which was subse­quently known as the Republic Creosot­ing Co., of which Mr. Reilly was presi­dent. In 1932 he purchased the Interna­tional Combustion Tar and Chemical Co., which maintained plants in five dif­ferent states and which now are a part of the Reilly Tar and Chemical Corp. This corporation is one of the two lead­ing producers of coal-tar products in America with 15 plants from coast to coast. 
Among the inventions developed by Mr. Reilly is a process for the complete distillation of tar. This method is of 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

especial economic value since in the first part of distillation known products are produced and in the second part of the distillation new and valuable materials are made available. 
Mr. Reilly was awarded an honorary 

LL.D. degree at Notre Dame on June 4, 1939. He serves as director of the Eeal Silk Hosiery Mills, the Indiana National Bank, the Um'on Trust Co. of India­napolis, the Indianapolis Power & Light Co., the James Whitcomb Riley Hospital for Children, Butler University and the Hoosier Salon Patrons Association. He is a member of the State Advisory Council of the Indiana University Medi­cal Center, the Indiana Advisory Public Health Council, and is serving his Hth term as president and director of the Christamore Society. Mr. Reilly is mar­ried and is the father of five children. 
^^•^^^^^^^^^t^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^*^^^^^ 

Martin J. Gillen Foundation Announced 
University is Residuary Legatee in Gillen Will; Bene­
faction is Now in Excess of $1,000,000; Wide Latitude 
in Use. of Money Is Allowed N. D. Administration. 
The Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, 

president of the University, on Nov. 23 
announced the Notre Dame-Martin J. 
Gillen foundation for educational and 
scientific purposes. 
Father O'Donnell, in announcing that 

the administration of the estate of Mar­
tin J. Gillen has been completed, issued 
the following statement: 
"The University of Notre Dame lost 

a distinguished friend, honorarj' alum­
nus, and benefactor, when Martin J. 
Gillen, lawyer-economist, died on Sept. 
22, 1943, in the beautiful surroundings 
of Land O'Lakes, Wis, which through 
his generosity had already become the 
property of the Universitj'. Under the 
terms of his Will, the University also be­
came residuary legatee of his other hold­
ings. 
"Through his experience as a lawyer, and also because of his knowledge of university operations, Mr. Gillen knew that an institution of higher learning can anticipate its problems only within rather indefinite limits. As a lawj'er, he also knew instances of benefactions which, because of the restrictions placed upon them, failed in "the long run to meet either the intentions of the donor or the changing needs of the benefactor. 
"Mr. Gillen exercised excellent judg­ment and foresight in leaving the Uni­versity a wide latitude in its use of his gift. He expressed certain preferences in the disposition of his estate, and the University will honor them. In the main, however, his handsome benefaction, which is now in excess of ?1,000,000, is an unrestricted gift to be used at the discretion of succeeding administrations to further the best interests of Notre Dame." 
Mr. Gillen had a rich background of legal practice which he broadened with business administration and an intensive study of economics. In 1915 he drew up a plan for industrial mobilization which served as a basis for the War Industries Board, and in 1917 he outlined a plan for state and municipal mobilization for war. As a result, he was called to Wash­ington as a doUar-a-year man in World War. I. While there, Mr. Gillen served with distinction as a member of the U.S. 
Martin J. Gillen 

Shipping Board and helped to liquidate four billion dollars worth of contracts that were outstanding at the termination of the war. Another of his great con­tributions to economics was his "inter­national balance sheet" between the United States and the world, drawn up in 1922. He also helped evolve a method for gathering farm data which is still in use. 
In conferences with the Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, then president of the University, and the late Father James A. Bums, C.S.C, president from 1919 to 1922, Mr. Gillen indicated that because of scientific exploration already made on the Land O'Lakes property, the tract of some 6,000 acres which was acquired by the University through his generositj-, should be made available by the University as a scientific preserve for use by scientists of other univers­ities. In these same conferences, the eventual establishment of a boy's sum­mer school and camp was evolved. To achieve these purposes the University has set up, under the laws of Michigan, the Notre Dame-Martin J. Gillen Foun­dation, the primary purposes of which are to further educational and scientific pursuits. 
When the Bureau of Economic Re­search was established at Notre Dame, Mr. Gillen subscribed fully to its aims. He felt that telling the public economic truths in clearly understandable terms was the best antidote for the spacious and sometimes fantastic theories ad­vanced by certain students in the field. In his will, after making specific be­quests for religious and charitable pur­poses, he left a substantial sum to be used by the University as an endowment for the Bureau and for other Univer­sity purposes to be determined by the administration. 
ADVISORy COMMIHEE MEETS 

The new Industrial Committee, the or­ganization of which was announced in the October ALUMNUS, met on the cam­pus on Oct. 26-27. The committee was created to assure an understanding be­tween the University and industry with regard to the school's contribution to the future industrial development of the na­tion. 
The two-day session included two tours of the University, with particular refer­ence to the laboratories, two business meetings, two luncheons and a dinner and attendance at the lowa-Notre Dame football game. 
Vocational Chairmen Offer Help to Vets 
Service Is Not Confined to Job Assistance; Sugsestions. Based on Experience in Alumni Office, Are Offered to Job Seekers, Especially to Those not Technically Skilled. 
Twenty-five club vocational chairmen vance, as far as they possibly can, on we most want to do and it's what we're 
and their committees, covering most of two matters: (a) what kind of work trying, with everything we have, to do the Notre Dame "population centers" they want to do and feel really quali­most advantageously. throughout the country, are now at work fied to do; (b) where, in. general, they 
Again, write either to a vocational in the Alumni Association program— want to work. 
chairman or to Dooley, if you need help. 
especially designed to assist the return­
As to No. 4(a): One of the toughest 
ing Notre Dame veterans of this war. 
things in modem employment work is to Frank A. Milbauer, '25, New Jersey help a man who is pretty much willing Club, and Vincent DeCoursey, '39, Kan­And each Notre Dame veteran who sas City Club, are additional vocational, 
to "do anything." Modem business is set 
needs any sort of aid is urged to com­chairmen since the October ALVMNTIS 
up on a specialized basis. Recognizing 
municate with the club vocational chair­appeared. The complete list of chairmen 
this fact, the job seeker should, if neces­
men in his home territory. (The Alumni is now as follows: 
sary, read widely, talk with qualified ad­
Office at Notre' Dame will be happy to advise as to procedure in the case of a Bmien Conntr, Micb.; Maurice A. Weber, '25, 
visors, take vocational tests — and, of course, pray always—in order to find Peoples state Bank Bld^., St. Joseph. 
veteran who is not in, or close to, a out his own vocational strong points. His BnValo: Josepb F. Ryan, '39, 30 Frontenac 
territory covered by a club vocational 
Avenue. 
job-seeking path will be made immea­
chairman.) Chiowo: Edward F. O'Toole, '23, 10 S. La surably smoother if he does this. Salle St.. Room 807 (Miss Jane Cahill In As this program has developed, sev­charge of club's permanent office at" this 
As to No. 4 (b): In general, an inter­address.) 
eral points needing emphasis have aris­view is an absolute essential of any Cincimuiti: Richard W. Scallan, 3612 Victory en. Here are some: 
Lane. 
job-seeking procedure. This means, gen­
Cleveljukd: Clayton G. lieroux. *27, Assistant 
erally, that a man must look for a job 
1. The program is not designed to Personnel Director, Monarch Aluminum Man­cover employment only. It takes in edu­within a territory where he Is readily ufacturing Co., 9301 Detroit Ave. 
DelaKani: J. Fendall Froning^, '37, 416 Geddes 
cational advice, housing advice, veter­available for interviews. To say that he St., Wilmington. ans' benefits advice—anything that the will work "anywhere in the U. S. A.," Detroit: Henry P. Clark. '30. 324 Washington vet wants to know about. (No, of course for instance, puts a man in far too broad Square Bids.. Royal Oak. Mich. 
Fovt Wayne: Harry C. Hogan. '04, President, 
a field.
not—the vocational chairman won't Dime Trust and Savings Bank. Indianapolis; Fred 1A Mahattey, '17, President, 
know all the answers right off, but he'll 
5. Innumerable non-technical men are Consolidated Finance Co., S50 Consolidated 
be happy to try to find them for you, Bldg. .
thinking of employment in terms of 
Kaniao City: Vincent DeCoursey. '39. DeCour­
making particular use of Notre Dame 
"personnel work." In that connection, sey Creamery Co., 642 Northrup Ave., Kansas 
"contacts.") City, Kans. 
just this caution: personnel work in 
Kentucky: Joseph F. Donaldson. '23, Director 
modern business is far from being as of Safety, City Hall, Louisville. 
2. Except in rare, very rare, cases, the 
simple and glamorous as it sometimes !•<>« Angelta: Paul F. Glass, '40, S41S Loyola 
vocational chairman can't lay a job in 
Blvd. the lap of a vetei-an, for obvious reasons. Milwaakcc: Edward J. Rogers, '17, President. 
appears. Most businesses will not take inexperienced men directly into their Layne-Northwest Co., 709 N. 11th St. 
The objective of the vocational chair­
personnel departments. At least they re­Xew Jersey: Frank A. Milbauer. '23, Essex 
man has to be: to help a veteran help 
Engraving Co., 44 Branford Place, Newark. 
quire that those vitally interested in per­
himself. And this the v. c. will gladly do. Xew Yoik City: John T. Balfe, '20, 60 E. sonnel get right down into the plant or 42nd St. 
Xorthem California: Keene Pitzpatrlck. '13. 135 Montgomery St.. San Francisco. 
3. In the nature of things some classi­store for a period of what-our-problems­
fications of returning job-hunting vet­are and how-we-do-it training. Then, if Oidahoma: Robert M. Siegfried. '37, 303 
erans are more in demand than others. everything clicks, personnel work is a Xational Bank of Tulsa Bldg., Tiilsa. FUladelpliIa: Harold E. Duke, '30, Manager, 
Eight now, the strong demand is for possibility. Eemember too—there are 
Wayne Pump Co., 4030 N. Broad St, technically-trained men—engineers, ac­relatively few personnel jobs. Portland. Ore.: •William C. Schmltt. '10. Presi­countants, chemists, physicists, and the 
dent, Schmitt Steel Company, 2407 ?.". W. 
All of which isn't, I hope, discourag­28th Ave. 
like. It's just a fact—unfortunate, if you BlMde Island * Southeastern Mass.; J. Clem­
ing to the returning vets. I've been in 
ent Grimes. 384 River Ave., Providence. 
will—^that men in the non-technical clas­
and around this employment business for 
St. JoMepb Vailer, Ind.:. Judge J. Elmer Peak, 
sifications have a generally tougher a good many years now and I'm hoping '12. Court House, South Bend. 
time finding jobs. Yes, there are non­
that some of the suggestions here, based St. Loals: Robert T. Hellrung, '30, Manager, technical jobs to be had: it just takes St. Louis Medical Credit Bureau. Humboldt 
upon my experience, past and present, 
Medical Bldg.. 306 N. Grand Blvd. 
some more time, more planning, more 
will be of value to the returning veter­Twin Cities, Mian.: Louis J. Regan, '29, Per­leg work, more interviews to get them. sonnel Director, Sears Roebuck & Co., Min­
ans and will help them adjust them­
neapolis. 
Which makes point No. 4 particularly 
selves faster and more effectively. WanUnctoa. D. C: Bernard E. Loshbough. '29. important. 5610 Colorado Ave., N. W.As I've said—and everybody connected Wmtem Fcan.: John P. McMahon. '28, Man­
4. Non-technical men especially can with the Alumni Association program aging Director, Industrial Hygiene Founda­tion. Inc., Mellon Institute, 4400 Fifth Ave., 
advance their cause tremendously, job-is in complete agreement—helping the Pittsburgh. wise, by making up their minds, in ad­returning Notre Dame veterans is what —W. R. D. 
"Not once in his life, I suppose, did Professor Cooney ever give any indica­tion of considering himself the least bit better than the lowliest of those with whom he came into contact. As a profes­sor, he seldom lectured in the classroom. As a dean, he seldom issued a command. As a companion, he seldom raised his voice above the tone of conversation. He didn't have to do any of those things or to use any of those tricks that most of us use at times to bolster up our per­sonalities. The genuineness of Professor Cooney's love for his fellowmen broke through that natural reserve which all of us have—and won an immediate an-" swering love in return. 
"As a consequence his students always respected him; they never feared him. And the regard which they had in their student days not only survived the with­ering influence of time but blossomed into even greater love as the experience of the years brought a greater and greater realization of how much he had actually given them. The sincerity of that appreciation is evident from the number of famous correspondents and newspaper editors who look back through the acclaim which is now theirs to give full credit for their success to the pro­fessor who taught them so much when he did not seem to be teaching them at all. 
"That, my dear friends, is the t%vin test of the truly great teacher—that he can teach without appearing to do so and that hi8 influence follows his stu­dents and stays with them through the years in their various activities of life. That, to a man who makes teaching his profession, is worth more than wealth and honors or maybe some dubious men­tion in a history book. It is what Profes­sor Cooney strove for in his life. It is what he accomplished by being simple and sincere; and by loving people rather than things. 
"I know from long personal acquain­tance with his students that many eyes have looked through those kindly spec­tacles of his and have got a new vision of life, that many hearts have caught the kindliness of his heart and carried that kindliness into the lives of others. I know that he made the days of his students brighter, happier, holier by his mellow­ness—and God will not forget him for that. As one last mark of appreciation therefore, let us who are the heirs of his fine Christian gentlemanliness—and most of us are—let us do this morning what he would want us to do, let us pray God to look lightly upon our old friend's im­perfections; and let us resolve too that 
(Continued on Page 43) 

Prof. Cooney Succumbs Suddenly 
Head of Journalism Department for 30 
 Education in Person" 
It would be most diificult to be more effective than was Kev. Thomas Lahey, C.S.C, long an acquaintance and ad­mirer of Professor Cooney's gentle gen­ius, in his eulogy: 
"The greater thou art, the more hum­ble thyself in all things, and thou shalt find grace before God." ECCLESIASTICUS, Chaper 3, Verse 20. 
". . . It is because we are here this morning to say our last farewells to one who loved the hidden side of his work rather than any of the human honors which went along with it that I want to pay tribute to that rare quality in his character. 
Proiessor John M. Cooner 

"Professor Cooney was well prepared by talent and education to exert more than the ordinary influence in life. As newspaper editor, as professor, as college president, as dean of a School of Jour­nalism, and in various executive capaci­ties both on and off the campus he might have accumulated many of those emolu­ments which the world values so much— but he never bothered himself about those things—even when they came to him. There were other things that he valued more—people, for instance, par­ticularly the people with whom he lived and worked. 
years was "Liberal 

On Monday morning, Oct. 15, as quiet­ly as he had lived, and as significantly. Professor John Michael Cooney, for 30 years head of Notre Dame's department of journalism, died in his home. 
He would,assign this article for objec­tive writing. It is just another assign­ment that we can't handle. For unless you studied under Professor Cooney you wouldn't know what to say. And if j'ou studied under him, you couldn't be ob­jective. 
John Michael Cooney was liberal edu­cation in person, liberal education in its finest sense. He had adequate special knowledge to be educator, editor, au­thor, poet, and other learned professional identities. But all were submerged in his contacts by that feeling of depth and scope that in a less kindly man would have been frightening. He came closest in my experience to some intimation of the meaning of the psalm on the depth of the riches of the \\asdom and of the knowledge of God. It was because he knew so much that he constantly hum­bled his intellect, and maintained a mag­nificent curiosity that embarrassed while it educated much younger authorities. 
It is almost futile to encompass the work and the influences of Professor Cooney. Quiet, inconspicuous, working with the less spectacular tools of the mind, many Notre Dame men, even, came and went without experiencing the stimulus of his acquaintance. 
But journalism, as he taught it, was so perfect an example of liberal educa­tion as the new pioneers rediscover it elsewhere, and his influence was so great on the stream of men who passed through his classes, that there will be effects of his teaching far more profound than any he would have named, far more profound than the average University course could hope. 
The wealth of tribute that came from men in high places who had shared his talents already bears this evidence. His philosophy, his humor, his high Chris­tian integrity, his appreciation of clas­sics, his devotion to truth and to accu­racy, were scattered like seeds through his students. Professor Cooney would be among the first to claim that some must fall on fertile ground. 
FOR GOD. COUNTRY. NOTRE DAME 
IN GLORY 
Senile Fenr Jade Haffner 

Capt. Martin S. McGinni*, '39, Mem­phis, Tenn., formerly reported missing in action, was in July, 1945, officially declared dead. He had failed to return from a raid over Mannheim, Germany, on Jan. 13, 1945. 
After his graduation, Marty went into business as contractor for Small Better Homes in Memphis. On Feb. 17, 1941, he enlisted and in December, 1941, re­ceived his commission. Originally in the Sixth Cavalry, he later transferred to an armored unit and finally, at his own request, was assigned to the Eighth Air Force as his overseas duty and had made 18 missions successfully. 
Lt. Bernard J. Ferry, '41, Baltimore, was killed on Sept. 10 in Germany when his plane crashed into a mountain in bad weather en route to Munich to transport prisoners of war. He had served in the European theatre of operations for 15 months, participating in four campaigns. 
Bemie enlisted in the Air Corps in July, 1941, and went overseas in July, 1944, serving in England, France, Bel­gium and Germany. He is survived by his mother and a brother. 
Sgt. John C. Haffner, '41, Oak Park, m., formerly reported missing in action, has been declared killed as of April 27, 1945, when the B-24 liberator on which he was flight engineer crashed into the Adriatic Sea. 
Jack had been overseas since Febru­ary, 1945, with the 15th Air Force, and held the Air Medal with one cluster. A wife and two small daughters living in Indianapolis survive him, as well as his parents and a sister. 
Lt. Eugene R. Killoren, ex. '45, Ap­pleton. Wis., formerly reported missing over Germany since Oct. 2, 1944, has been officially declared dead. A navigator on a B-17, Gene has been overseas since May, 1944. He is survived by his parents and a brother. 
 EVERLASTING 
A member of the Third Bombardment division. Eighth Air Force, cited by the president for its now historic England-Africa shuttle bombing of Nazi Messer­schmitt aircraft plants at Keg:ensburg, Germany, in August of 1943, Gene was awarded the Air Medal with two leaf clusters. 
T/Sgt. Edward V. Ankli, ex. '46, Ben­ton Harbor, Mich., missing since his first bombing mission over Berlin in October, 1944, has been officially listed as killed in action. He is survived by his parents and his grandmother. 
Ed entered service in June, 1943, after attending the University for one year. He was a crewman on a B-17. 
Gene Knoten Bin BicxeiuU 

Pvt. AVilliam A. Brezentki, ex. '46, Detroit, missing since Jan. 30, 1945, has been officially declared dead. Bill was killed in action in the Black Mountains of the Vosges terrain in France. His di­vision, the 28th, took Colmar three days later. He was awarded the Purple Heart posthumously. 
Bill entered the service when he was a third year chemical engineering student at Notre Dame in July, 1944. He left for overseas in December, 1944. Surviving him are his parents and a brother. 
The ALUMNUS has so far received only incomplete information regrarding the following Notre Dame men who died in the service of their country: Lt WillUm. Katz, AAF, ex. '45, of Teaneck, N. J., and Pfc. Charles Leckie, ex. '47, Minne­apolis, who was killed in action on Oki­nawa on July 17, 1945. 
Deaihs Already Reported 
(This section contains additional in­formation about Notre Dame men whose deaths in the armed forces were reported in earlier issues of the ALUMNUS). 
Lt. Cadr. Joba M. HntiM*. '31, Jack­sonville, Fla., was killed in a Navy plane crash 16 miles northeast of Kingdand, Ga., on Sept. 28, while en route to the JacksonviUe Naval Air Station. He was security <^cer on the Naval Air Opera­tional Training Command staff at Jack­sonville. 
Before entering the service in July, 1941, John was associated with the Foley Lumber Co., Jacksonville. He is survived by his wif e^ a year-old son, John Michael, his parents, a brother and a sister.' 
Major Cario J. MarineUo, ex. '37, Buffalo, N. Y., died on Dec. 31,1944, of wounds received on Leyte. He is survived by his parents, two sisters and three brothers. 
Carlo was graduated .from the Univer­sity of Buffalo School of Medicine in June, 1939, and was appointed an interne at the Edward J..Meyer Memorial Hos­pital, Buffalo. He later served as assist­ant resident in pathology in the same hospital. 
A reserve officer in the medical eorps,­Carlo was called to active duty in Octo­ber, 1940. He made two tours of overseas duty. It was while he was on his second tour, in the 67th day of combat, that he was wounded critically as he served as commanding officer of the 52nd Portable Surgical Hospital, assigned to the initial wave in the invasion of Leyte. 
Lt. Jolm W. Smith, ex. '41, West Win­field, N. Y., lost his life near Greenville, 
S. C, when his bomber crashed on Jan. 29, 1944. John leaves his wife, a son, a daughter, his parents and. three sisters. 
He had been in service about a year. 
and received his commission and wings in November, 1943. Before entering the service, John was employed by the Eem­ington Arms Co., in Bridgeport, Conn. 
Lt. Robert £. Scfaoo, ex. '43, Louis­ville, was killed in a B-29 crash at El Paso, Texas, on Aug. 5. 
Bob entered the Army Air Forces in February, 1943, after a time in defense work at the Goodyear Engineering Corp. He received his training at Santa Ana, Calif., Spartansburg, S. C, and Williams Field, Ariz. He was commissioned in September, 1944, and was scheduled to leave for the Pacific area at the time of his death. He was one of seven killed when the B-29 crashed on a routine training flight. 
KENNEDX RESIGNS 

J. Walter Kennedy, Notre Dame's pub­licity director since July, 1943, resigned in November his position to become vice-president of the Scholastic Sports Insti­tute, Ltd., of New York City. He signed a two-year contract and will assume his new duties on Dec. 15, -n-ith offices in New York. 
The newly-organized Scholastic Sports Institute is headed by G. Herbert Mc­Cracken, for many years head football coach at Lafayette College, and at pres­ent vice-president of Scholastic Publica­tions. The Institute will offer a new and authoritative service to those responsible for maintaining high standards in inter­scholastic athletics. 
Walt is a native of Stamford, Conn., where he received his early education. He was graduated from Notre Dame with a degree in journalism. After a t^vo­year term as athletic director and foot­ball coach at St. Basil's preparatory school in Connecticut, he became associ­ated with the Macmillan Publishing com­pany of New York City, and was special representative for the iirm in educational and promotional work for five years. 
During these years Walt also was closely associated with athletics as a football official, and was for four years the president of the Stamford, Conn., baseball league. He and his 'm'fe have two children. 
When the ALUMNUS went to press, the University had not appointed a new pub­licity director. 
ON ATOMIC COMMITTEE 

Dr. Karl Menger, head of the Depart­ment of Mathematics, has been invited to join the National Working Committee on Atomic Energy. The committee is headed by Dr. Howard Shapley of Har­vard University. 
S
POTLIGHT ALUMNI 
"DYRON V. KANALEY, '04, Chicago, 
for 12 years chairman of the Asso­

ciate Board of Lay Trustees of the Uni­
versity, is the president of the Mortgagee 
Bankers Association of America for the 
current year. 
A graduate of the Harvard Law School as well as of Notre Dame, Mr. Kanaley is president of Cooper, Kanaley & Co., Chicago. He has been a member of the MBA since 1925 and was first elected to the organization's board of governors in 1929. He was one of the organizers and was first president of the Chicago MBA, serving three terms. 
In a life devoted to Notre Dame in­terests, Mr. Kanaley has found the time to be a member of the executive com­mittee and finance committee of several local charities, including the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Chicago, Illinois Association for the Crippled and the F. J. Lewis Fund for the Tubercu­losis Poor. 
BYKON V. KANALEY, '04 

He is a past president of the Win­netka [Chicago suburb] Community Chest, director of the Chicago Commu­nity Chest, former treasurer of the Chi­cago Keal Estate Board and former president of the Chicago Realty Club. He is a regional director of the Com­mittee for 'Economic Development. 
Mr. and Mrs. Kanaley are the parents of Byron V. Kanaley, Jr., '42, and of three daughters, one of whom is the ^vife of Fred C. Miller, '29. John B. Kanaley, '09, is a brother. 
LINUS C. GLOTZBACH, '23 

T INUS C. GLOTZBACH, '23, has since 
July, 1945, been executive assistant 

to the president of the Northwest Air­
lines, St. Paul, Minn. 
As assistant to the president and di­rector of personnel, Linus joined North­west Airlines in September, 1942, at a time when the company operated not only its own commercial airline but was also undertaking several major war proj­ects for the Army Air Forces. He orga­nized the company's personnel depart­ment and directed the stafiing of all its war projects, as the company personnel was expanded from an approximate pre­war 1,000 to more than 10,000 at the peak. 
An attorney in New Ulm, Minn., from his graduation until he joined North­west Airlines, Linus served successively during the depression of the '30s as dis­trict, state and regional director of the WPA. In July, 1942, he was appointed regional director of the Federal Works Agency. 
Linus and his wife are the parents of 14-year-oId George L. Glotzbach. 
IS HELPING VETERANS 

Benjamin G. Dubois, South Bend, pro­fessor of French on leave for service in the armed forces, began on Oct. 22 his duties as chief service officer of the South Bend referral center for veter­ans. As a reserve ofBcer, he was called in­to active service in July, 1941. Serving in the adjutant general's department he was assigned to the Caribbean defense command with headquarters in Panama and later to Washington, D. C. When he left the Army recently he was a lieuten­ant colonel. 
Engineering Dean, Chemistry Head Named 
Karl E. Schoenherr Heads Engineering; Was Naval Archi­tect Associated with Dr. Albert Zahm, '83; Dr. Charles C. Price, formerly of Illinois, Appointed in Chemistry. 
The appointment of a new dean of en­gineering and a new head of the depart­ment, of chemistry was announced in October by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University. The appointments became effective with the start of the new semester on Nov. 5. 
Karl E. Schoenherr, former naval architect at the D. W. Taylor Model Basin, Carderock, Md., is the new dean of the college of engineering. 
Dean Schoenherr succeeds Col. D. C. Jackson, who resig:ned when he entered the service in 1942. Raymond J. Schub­mehl, '21, who was acting dean of the college of engineering after Col. Jackson entered the service, remains as professor of civil engineering. 
Dr. Charles C. Price, research assist­ant at the University of Illinois, was named head of the department of chem­istry. Dr. Price succeeds Dr. Andrew J. Boyle, '28, who will remain in the de­partment of chemistry. 
The new dean, who was born in Karls­ruhe, Germany, and received his primary and secondary education in Durlach, Germany, was graduated from the Mas­sachusetts Institute of Technology, re­ceived a M.A. degree at George Wash-ing^ton University, and a doctorate in mechanical engineering at Johns Hop­kins University.' 
Dr. Schoenherr joined the staff of the 
U. S. Model Basin as junior engineer and advanced to the position of naval architect. He was ultimately in charge of the section dealing with resistance and propulsion at the new D. W. Taylor Model Basin. For 12 years he maintained a private practice as propeller designer and powering specialist. There are about one million tons of American shipping equipped with propellers of his design. 
Dean Schoenherr, formerly with Dr. Albert Zahm, '83, former Notre Dame professor, now in the Guggenheim Chair of Aeronautics in the Library of Con­gress in Washington, in many recent ex­periments, is the author of several im­portant articles. Among them are sec­tions of "Resistance and Propulsion" and "Rudders and Steering of Ships," in "Principles of Naval Architecture," pub­lished by the S.N.A. and M.E., and three important papers read before this or­ganization in 1931-32 and 1934 dealing with resistance and propulsion of ships. He has made contributions to the discus­sion of many other papers and many Model Basin reports. 
Col. Jackson, whom Mr. Schoenherr succeeds, had been dean of the college of engineering at Notre Dame since 1939, prior to his entry into the service. 
Deem Ecnl E. Schoenheix 

The appointment of Dr. Schoenherr represents the first step in postwar plans designed to strengthen the University. These plans call for the rebuilding .and sti-engthening of departments through­out the five colleges, which were neces­sarily weakened during the war by the absence of faculty members and the dearth of students, as well as the de­velopment of graduate programs of teaching and research in the Arts and Letters and Science divisions of the Graduate School. The introduction of graduate work into more fields of engi­neering is also contemplated. 
In engineering, the Notre.Dame tradi­tion goes back to men like Dr. Zahm. In more recent times, the Department of Metallurgy was one of the first at Notre Dame to offer work leading to the doc­tor's degree. Its laboratories rate high among those of American universities. .Work in them has heretofore been large­ly concentrated in the field of physical metallurgy, but work in other fields will be included in the future. Flans for de­velopment of advanced study and re­search in other fields of engineering are still in the formative stage. 
The new chemistry head received his bachelor's degree from Swarthmore in 1934 with high honors and his doctorate from Harvard in 1936. While at Har­vard, Dr. Price held a university fellow­ship and worked under Prof. Louis F. Fieser. 
Immediately after his graduation from Harvard, Dr. Price joined the faculty of the University of Illinois as research assistant to professor Roger Adams. For the past nine years he has conducted ex­tensive research in the field of high poly­mer chemistry in which he has attained distinction. During the war his time was devoted largely to direction of research projects for the National Defense Re­search Committee, the Chemical Warfare Service and the Committee on Medical Research. 
In the summer of this year. Dr. Price was associated with the High Polymer Research Bureau of the Polytechnic In­stitute of Brooklyn, and he has recently become chairman-elect of the Gibson Is­land Polymer conference in 1947. He is member of the American Chemical Soci­ety and of several honor societies, in­cluding the Phi Beta Kappa. He has served as consultant to the Hercules Powder Co., the Socony-Vacuum Co., Eli Lilly and Co. and the Coco-Cola Co. 
Notre Dame has been traditionally strong in the natural sciences and, in accordance with this tradition, the de­partments of the science division loom large in the plans for the future. Since the days of Father Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., and his pioneering work into the field of acetylene chemistry, the Univer­sity has had a widely recognized depart­ment of chemistry. 
Research in acetylene chemistry will be continued and programs in high poly­
mer chemistry and in radiation chemis­try, an approach to the solution of prob­lems in chemistry which received great impetus during the war, will be added. A number of other ranking younger chemists have been invited to join the chemistry staff. 
Several other outstanding men were added to the faculty as the A\-inter se­mester opened. 
Vito A. Girone assumed his duties as instructor in architecture. Mr. Girone, just discharged from the Army, was an engineer in the engineer office of the Alaskan Department where he was in charge of the real property account study. He has been recommended for the Legion of Merit. 
Prior to entering the service, he had graduated from the Newark School of Fine and Industrial Arts in 1932, stud­ied for two years at the Atelier Newark, studied in the New York University school of architecture and won a scholar­ship to Harvard University in national architectural competition. He studied at the Ecole Americaine, Fontainebleau, France, in 1937, and then returned to this country to complete his Beaiix Arts training. He won the medal for interior design in Beaux Arts. 
Dr. Leo Camp, former instructor at St. Mary's College, Calif., has joined the Notre Dame faculty as instructor in English. Mr. Camp received his Ph.D. degree at the University of Washington and continued postgraduate work at Laval University, Canada. 
Dr. Walter La Roy Wilkins, former professor of education at Notre Dame, has returned from service and will as­sume duties in the department of educa­tion and in the University counseling service. He was active in clinical psychol­ogy at the separation center in San Diego, Calif. 
Capt. Daniel C. O'Grady, teacher of philosophy from 1926 until he joined the -4.rmy in 1942, has rejoined the philoso­phy faculty. He is devoting part of his time to the counseling division of the University, where he will aid the return­ing veterans particularly. Like Dr. Wilkins, Dr. O'Grady was in charge of important psychological work in the Army. Prof. Dominick Napolitano was returned by the Navy to the Physical Ed­ucation Department. 
Also returned to the faculty are Prof. Stanley S. Sessler, head of the Art De­partment, from the Army, and Prof. Alden E. Davis, head of the Business Ad­
2,855 Students In Current Term 
591 Are Returned Veterans and 808 Are Naval Trainees 
A total of 2,855 students were en­rolled for the winter semester, which began on Nov. 5. 
That enrollment, marking the high point since the inauguration of the ac­celerated wartime program, included 2,047 civilian students, 702 trainees in the NEOTC, 56 naval V-12 trainees, and 50 V-5 trainees. The naval trainees now on the Notre Dame campus are an inte­gral part of the University and attend regular University classes. The Naval Reserve Midshipmen School closed its doors with the graduating of its 11th and final class on Nov. 2. 
Various colleges at the University showed a marked increase, with 800 in the College of Arts and Letters, follow-• 
ministration Department, from the Navy, as well as Dr. Edward A. Coomes, of the Physics Department, who as a civilian had been outstanding in governmental research. 
Louis F. Budenz, former managing editor of the Daily Worker, Communist newspaper in New York City, is for the present teaching both in the Economics Department and the Journalism Depart­ment. Mr. Budenz' return to the Catholic Church, the conversion of his wife and three daughters to Catholicity and his severing of his ties with the Communist movement were given nationwide publici­ty in October. 
Francis X. Bradley, former student in mathematics at N.D., has been dis­charged from the Navy where he was a lieutenant commander and is serving as a graduate assistant in the department of mathematics. 
Dr. Rufus Isaacs has been added to the faculty as an assistant professor of mathematics. He attended Massachusetts Institute of Technology and received his Ph.D. at Columbia University. He was employed at United Aircraft Corpora­tion before coming to Notre Dame. 
Meanwhile, Prof. Frank N. M. Brown, head of the department of aeronautical engineering at Notre Dame has been granted a leave of absence to participate in government research at the Johns Hop­kins Laboratory of Applied Physics at Silver Springy, Md. 
ed closely by the College of Commerce with 765 students. With 75 students, the College of Law doubled its enrollment. 
The Office of Veteran Affairs at the University recorded 591 veterans en­rolled. Of the veterans, 105 of last se­mester's 114 have returned and 486 were newcomers. The enrollment of veterans rose rapidly in October as the discharge rate was speeded up in the armed forces.­Since many of the veterans are married, the University is faced with a serious off-campus housing problem, a solution to which is being sought as this is writ­ten. One proposal favorably considered is that temporary houses be moved into adjacent South Bend from former in­dustrial sites in the Middle West. South Bend municipal authorities and Notre Dame authorities are cooperating in try­ing to work out a housing program on this basis. 
A total of 708 freshmen, 232 sopho­mores, and 674 junior and senior civi­lian students were housed on the Notre Dame campus. 
Rev. George I. Smith, O.P., associate professor of civil engineering, was the chief speaker as the University con­ducted on October 24 the Fall Convo­cation for the conferring of degrees. Father Smith's subject was "The Code of Living." He has been a Notre Dame faculty member since 1941. 
Fifty-eight degrees were awarded at this convocation, 17 of them by the Graduate School. Fifteen bachelor of science degrees were awarded to former science students, currently in medical or dental schools, who had completed the requirements for their Notre Dame degrees. 
SPEAKS IN DETROIT 

Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C, professor of education, addressed the Michigan Catholic College Association at Marygrove College, Detroit, on Nov. 14 on "Collie Education in a Democracy." 
On Dec. 1, Father Cunningham re­ported on the questionnaire on "Provi­sion for Higher and Lower Ranking Students in College" before the Indiana Conference on Higher Education in the Columbia Club, Indianapolis. 
Third Annual Alumni Fund 
Contributions September I, 1945, to November I, 1945 
As in the previous Alumni Funds, the alumni contribotiana represent ahanal silU direct ta 
the University, through the Alumni Association, or throni^i the Director of Pdlille 1 
Oesau. Dr. Harold T_ 10.00 Dunn, Robert C (St. Louis 
Before 1900 1915 
Pfeiffer, Edw. H 10.00 Club Scholarship) 500.00 
Ruffine. Charles E.. '87-$23.00 Mee. Sim_ $30.00 20.00 
Weinrich. Arthur C._ Galone, Capt. Andrew N 20.00 
Weaver, Dr. W. Burnett, 25.00 Roach, Robert L.™ . 30.00 
Kenny, Thomas F 10.00 

Rohan. Howard J.. . 200.00 
$285.00 Lediowiek, Stanley J. .3.00 
$30.00 

Grand Total No. Coatrib. McCoy, Jolitn G 25.00 
Grand Total No. Contrib. $300.00 
$892.00 40 McDermott. Midiael P 10.00 
Grand Total No. Contrib. 
656.00 
No. in Class %Catrifc. McNdlis. John F 10.00 No. in Classes ^ Contiib. $643.00 16 150 .266 O'Cbnnor, 'Thomas E 50.00 
No. in Class % Contrib. 67 .239 
170 .130 
Byan, Rev. Harry 10.00 
Stephan. Robert D. 10.00 
1923 

1900 to 1905 
Castner, Paul H_ . $23.00 
1916 

Fcrstel. Williajn G., '00 $90.00 Kiley, Hon. Roger J.. . 100.00 $670.00 
Berkley, Frederick J., '10_ . 10.00 Odem. James F... _$100.00 Lieh. Thomas J» . 10.00 Grand Total No. Coatrib. . 10.00 .$1,673.00 71 
McGee, George A., '01 McDermitt, Francis F... S.0O 
Coquillard. Alc-cis, '03 20.00 $100.00 Melody. Felix J S.00 Na. la Claas %Cattik. LonerRSn, Frank J.. '04— 23.00 Grand Total No. Contrib. Neir, Cyril W. 5.00 318 .223 Stanford. Grattan T.. '04_ 230.00 $448.00 17 O'Grady, George J 10.00 
No. in Class % Contrib. liandall, Thomas G 5.00 1928 
$403.00 71 .240 
Riley, E. Qark . 10.00 Considine, John P— $50.00 
Grand Total No. Contrib. 
Shea, W. E_ , 25.00 Grams, August M-100.00 $2,372.00 26 Weis, Dr. Matthew W_ . 100.00 Grant. Hon. Robert A~ 10.00 
1917 

No. In Classes ^ Contrib. Haven, Clarence B. 
McMahon. James T— $5.00 . 5.00 
.245 $300.00 
106 Herbert, J<An R 10.00 
McNichols. Austin A.­100.00 
Grand Total No. Coatiib. 
KeUy, Frank J 5.00 1906 to 1910 Shanahan. Georce W.. 23.00 
Rudolph, Simon R 25.00 
$965.00 33 Murphy, John P. 10.00 No. in Class % Cmtrih. Murphy, Jobn R 5.00 
Fecley, William P., '06_. -$100.00 182 .181 Pluchd, WiUiam H 10.00 
$155.00 

O'Brian, Kev. William C, '06.. 10.00 MTIngerter, John J . 10.00 
Grand Total No. Contrib. 
Shea. John F., '06 23.00 
23 

Cunningham, James V., '07.^ 25.00 $1,780.00 1924 $215.00 
Caparo, J. A.. '08 30.00 No. in Class % Contrib. Buell, D. Patrick-$50.00 Graad Total No. Coatrib. Cull. Frank X.. '08 23.00 108 .2i:i Foley, Lester W_ . 433.00 
$1,160.50 78 

Kasper, Dr. Kevin A.. . 10.00 
No. ia Clas* % Coatrib. 

$233.00 Lindemann, Edward G-S.OO 
1918 414 
Grand Total No. Contrib. Mechan, James R— 2S.0O 
$25.00 
Andres, William J Novcsky, Walter G.. 25.00 

$775.00 
23.00 

No. in Classes % Contrib. Andrews. Francis A.. Rader, Walter R 10.00 1929 
25.00 

140 .193 Lcmmcr, John A.­Welch. Capt. WiUiam H„ 10.00 Brown, William E_ $10.00 
Williams. Rev. Charles J 23.60 
Buike. John F. P _ . 10.00 $568.00 Canty, Thomas G _ . 10.00 
$98.60 

1910 Grand Total NcCoirtriV. Fortier. WOIard C -. 25.00 
Grand Total So. Contrib. 
. $10.00 

Nagelson. Lou M.-$1,514.00 52 Hoff. Rev. Norbert C . 100.00 
$1,560.00 

24 No. in Class % Cmtrib. Mariano, Sgt. Jos. A., Jr. 
% Contrib. 
$10.00 No. in Class 208 .250 (Deceased) 25.00 

.393 Grand Total No. Contrib. 61 

O'Connor, Gerald P. 25.00 S5.210.00 Ronrke, John T.. 10.00 
1925 

No. in Class 90 Contrib. 1919 Sdiimberg, Hubert A._ 10.00 
.259 Grant, D. $10.00 Corboy." Stephen C_ $25.00 Shea. Thomas C 5.00 Kinff. Francis C , 50.00 Sullivan, Lt. John B -5.00 
Driscoll, George F.-. 10.00 , 25.00 Foos, Albert E . 10.00 
1911 Lennanne, Charles R— Trotter. Maj. Robert H _ 25.00 
Hcger, Ralph F . 25.00 
Winchester, Rev. Otis S_ 10.00 

Glynn. Edward J.— $230.00 
Holland. Gerald J„ . 10.00 
$83.00 Wood, Jesse R_ 100.00 
Murphy, Joseph B._ 25.00 
Grand Total No. Contrib. Jones, J. Willard-. 15.00 
Zappone, Francis L.. 2.00 

20 Kaiser, Clarence J.. 10.00 
$275.00 $150.00 

O'Neil. Daniel J~ 5.00 
Grand Total ' No. Contrib. No. in Class ^ Contrib. J $372.00 
Rodighero, Rudolph G._ 5.00 
17 48 .417 Gr.uid Total No. Coatrib. 
$823.00 
Sobatski, Raymond J.. . 1040 
^o Contrib. $1,417.00 69 No. in Class 
Steel, Frank E . 20.00 
.234 No. la Clasa %CaBtrih. 
67 1920 Traynor, John P 5.00 318 .214 Gleason, John F. $10.00 Wolf, Lester J 5.00 1912 Jewell, Everett A.­_ 3.00 
. . 10.00 1930 
Griesedicck, William A.. $25.00 Leslie. Humphrey L. $155.00 Wrape, Alba H _ _ , 10.00 
Mulholland, Clement B.. 5.00 Grand Total ' No. Contrib. Gannon, Danid F— $1,490.00 83 Clark. Henry J_ $35.00 $28.00 No. in Class %Caatrib. DeLany, Frederick T.. Grand Total No. Contrib. 289 
Grand Total No. Contrib. .287 Derby. Charles Y 10 $348.00 21 Fink, Francis A_ $2,765.00 
No. in ^o Contrib, No. in Class % Contrib. Finnegan, Lt. J. Francis 
 Class 

44 .227 S3 .257 1926 Folks, T. J<*n, Jr i..^ 
Adams, John Q ..— $23 00 GoKgin. Patrick J., Jiv-^ Cantwell, Lt. Leo J 5.00 Holmes, Robert A. 
1921 

1913 Coughlin. Rev. Bernard J -. 15.00 Malloy, James A
Duncan. Archibald M $23.00 
O'Connell. John F -..$100.00 Goulet. Vincent L_ 15.00 Martiel, Victor J :—: 
Foley. Harold S 333.00 
McGinley, Gerald J . 50.00 Morrison, Qiaries G. •Gorrilla, Dr. L. Vincent 10.00 
$100.00 Mooney, Charles A., Jr_ . 10.00 Reaume. William J
MeaKher, Edmund J 10.00 
Grand Total No. Contrib. O'Malley, Vincent D.. . 25.00 Rigley. Sgt. Robert L. 
Sheen, Dr. Thomas N 50.00 
$1,185.00 19 Sheridan, Lt. Thomas W_ S.00 Rohr, (Hiaries E., Jr. No. in Class ^o Contrib. Swartz, Forest J— 500 Smith, Howard J
$428.00 

62 .306 Velie. Alton C._ S.00 Sullivan. James W. :: 
Grand Total No. Contrib. 
Wingerter, Bernard K._ 10.00 
24 $773.00 
$219.00 

1914 No. in Class % Contrib. 
$170.00 Graad Total No. Coatrib. 
_ Gushurst, Fred. W.. 20.00 
Qay. Amos K.. _ $10.00 Grand Total No. Coatrib. $987.00 «5 
$2,035.00 62 No. ia Glaaa %C*atrib. 
McCarthy, John V„ __ 20.00 
1922 No. in Class %C«atrlh. 444 .146 
Smith, Joseph F. — 10.00 
326 .190 
Connelly, Francis W.— $5.00 
60.00 Hirschhuhl, Charles J.~ 100.00 1931 Grand Total No. Contrib. HuRuenard, Aaron H — 75.00 1927 Bergen, Arthur C-$5.00 
$772.00 20 Keeney, Arthur C 5.00 Conlin. John R -$10.00 Boyle. Austin T*, 10.00 No. in Class </a Contrib. McCabc, Thomas S 10.00 Delia Maria, Joseph P -5.00 Brieger, Earl W _ 5.00 
67 .299 Manion, Clarence E 50.00 Dohogne, T. F.-S.00 CSassady. William J., Jr_ 100.00 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

16 
10.00 Westhoff. Lt Herbert A_ 5.00 Cook. Leo K.-10.00 Oakes, Ramond W 10.00 Kiefer, Alfred O 5.00 
ChawRO, William B.­5.00 Morris, Charles S 5.00 Kennedy. L t Thomas L._ 
$441.00 

Dittoe. Francis R._ 5.00 O'Brien, Bernard M. 10.00 LeRoy, Bernard F._ 2.00 
Grand No. Contrib. 

Fedder, Francis G.-25.00 O'Brien, Eugene L—™ 25.00 McDonagh. Ens. H. F., Jr — 10.00  Total Fishleigh, Kenneth J.. 5.00 O'Connor. William J 5.00 Maloney. Maj. Philip J 25.00 $2,474.55 180 Flannery, Francis E— 10.00 Proctor, Thomas G 10.00 Raaf. Lt James J 10.00 No. in Class % Contrib. Gies, Noel M 5.00 Purcell, Philip J.. Jr. 10.00 Rice, Gregory™ 10.00 688 .262 Kane. Arthur J 10.00 Rowan, Lt. Edward J.. 5.00 Rizzi. L t A. Joseph 
10.00 Kuhn. John J.. 5.00 Sheedy, Ens. Michael M.. Jr_ I.OO Schramm, Robert F.-25.00 
1942 

Kuhn. Robert 20.00 Tylutki, Lt. Walter R 5.00 Schwartzel. Capt Gerard A — 25.00 Mclntyre. John J E 25.00 Welsh, aifford H 5.00 Sisk. Sgt Frederick E_ 3.00 
Baader, L t William C $25.00 10.00 

McKenna, Robert L 5.00 Wiggins. Cyril A 25.00 Slack, Edmund J. 10.00 Bagley, David C -
Tille. Dr. Raymond J.­. 5.00 Bauer, Lt John L., Jr.— 25.00 
Mulreany. Albert A 25.00 
10.00 Burkart, James A 10.00 

Oakes, Thomas E., Jr.-10.00 $248.00 Weber, Pfc. John H 10.00 Cavalero, Howard G 20.00 
Anonymous . 50.00 Grand Total Xo. Contrib, ^\'heeIer. Lt. John B — Clapham. Charles F. 2.00 
Saunders. John F._ 100.00 Sl.147.00 94 Cronin. Lt. John P 5.00 
$255.00 

Seifert. James H« 10.00 No. in Class % Contrib. 
Devine. Eugene J., Jr— 5.00 

Grand Total No. Contrib. 
Seward. SBt. Francis E._ 10.00 452 .209 
Frick, L t James E 10.00 

142 
Teders. Lt. Michael V — 10.00 $1,511.00 
%Coiitrik. Gadek. Dr. Raymond J. _ 5.00 
Terre. Wilbert L 10.00 No. in Class 
1936 606 .234 Glaser. Dr. Edward J 5.00 $475.00 
Cannon, Ens. George W.. Jr™$100.00 Hackett Ens. Edward F -5.00 Chrisman. John A.. 25.00 Haller, L t Edward H 25.00 
Grand Tutul No. Contrib. 
96 Darcy, Lt. William J._ 5.00 1940 Hecht Lt Robert E.. 10.00 
S1.6G6 SO 

Dempsey. John J., Jr „ 10.00 Hcnault Ens. Maurice G. 
Xo. in Class Cc Contrib. Barrett Capt James E_ $5.00 
Devine, Sgt. Robert B.­5.00 (Deceased) 100.00 
426 Biagi. L t Francis W 5.00 
Dunn. Thomas F.« 5.00 Rickey. Lt. Lawrence F._ 10.00 
Bourke, Norman F. 5.00 
Fisher. L t Patrick J 10.00 Judge, Dr, Dom Joseph— 5.00 
Cleary, L t William F. — 25.00 
Hellmuth, Lt. Andrew L-10.00 Kearney, L t Charles M —
1932 Cobb. Charles L. 20.00 5.00 
S5.00 Hopkins, John W „ 2.00 Kelley, Ens. Lawrence J 5.00 
Arehart, George A.. Doyle. L t Edward D 10.00 
Ireland. George M_ 2.00 Kenedy, Thomas B 25.00 
Brennan. Rev. Vincent P.­25.00 Donohue. John H., Jr -9.80 Conway, John E. 10.00 Dowd, Capt Henry R-10.00 
Lounsberry, Lt. Eugene P.-10.00 I^joie, Richard J.. 20.00 Malloy. Lt. Patrick H 25.00 Leising, Lt. James W... 5.00 
Gonciarz. Joseph F. 5.00 Eilers. L t Bernard J — 10.00 
Schwein, Irwin F 25.00 Lillis. Paul B.-5.00 
Lyons, WiUiam T„ 5.00 Ernst, Francis J 10.00 
Sibr. Lawrence F— 5.00 Link, Urban E.­5.00 
Mumame. D. Frank, Jr.-5.00 Facteau. Capt Leo G— 10.00 
Tofuri, Paschal A.. 3.00 Morris, Capt John F 5.00 
O'Neil. Vincent D 2.00 Finneran, L t John C.­10.00 
Varraveto, Dominick J 20.00 Murphy, Sg t William J.. 5.00 
Quif^ey, Charles M 15.00 Geary, L t Cornelius E., Jr.-10.00 Rohlof, Louis R. Gibbons, Capt James J 5.00 
10.00 O'Brien, L t James J 10.00 $262.00 O'Dowd. Frank E.. Jr. 10 00 
Schiavone. Lt. Leo V._ 5.00 Guindon, Francis X.. 10.00 Sullivan. Richard T.. 10.00 Hannan, Lt D. Edgar. Jr.-5.00 
Grand Total No. Contrib. PoUnow. Francis J., Jr 15.00 5.00 $1,501.95 79 Reilly, John A -5.00 
Watson, Clinton H.™ Howard. Robert I.. 5.00 
5.00 No. in Class *^o Contrib. Rock. L t Martin J 10.00 
Whalen, Robert J Hushek. W/ 0 Daniel J.­15.00 
443 .179 Scanlon, Sg t William E -10.00 
Joyce, Sg t William L 5.00 
$107.00 Sheedy, Kenneth J 1.00 
Kelleher, L t John C 5.00 Grand T«>tal McCanna, L t Charles B 50.00 
Xo. Contrib. Spohr, Joseph C-10.00 
1937 

Sullivan, Miss Nora R.. 2.00 No. in Class McMorrow*. Capt George J.. 10.00 
$1,448.00 87 McKenna. Lt. William S 25.00 
f/o Contrib. Bates, Dr. George N $5.00 Tobin. Lt Charles A 10.00 
Cackley, John N 20.00 
532 .164 Mooney. Pf c Alan B 25.00 
Carroll, Capt, Francis A 5.00 
S440.00 

Morrison, Paul M.. 10.00 
English, Rev. Joseph R., M.M_ 5.00 
Grand Total No. Contrib. 

Mulqueen. Mai. Joseph H -5.00 
Fehlig. Louis C._ 
1933 5.00 Norris. Harry L. 5.00 $1,897.20 163 
Fischer. Capt. Edward W. 10.00 
Beahm, E. W $5.00 No. in Class % Contrib. 
O'Donnell. Edward J -3.00 
5.00 Fitzpatrick. Lt. John J., Jr 20.00 
Byrne, Robert J 512 .318 Cavanaugh, Eugene L 5.00 
O'Hare, L t William G., Jr.. -10.00 
Gregorj-, Capt. Arthur C 10.00 
Patemo, Dr. Charles F. 5.00 
Johnen, Lt. Peter J : 5.00 
Cogley. Lt, Gmdr. E. A., Jr.... 5.00 Peterson, Leroy E 10.00 
5.00 Murphy, Vincent I. 5.00 1943 
Danehy, Dr. James P. Pinelli, Lt Roy W 10.00 
10.00 Nienaber, Lt. Walter J 3.00 
Devlin, James C. Rothacker, Robert A 10.00 Atkins, Ens. Thomas L.-$25.00 
, 334.00 Nolan, Ens. James J 10.00 
Foley, Milton J. Ryan, Maj. Joseph A. 5.00 Atwater. L t Julian G 5.00 
Pojman, Henry F : 10.00 
Frank, Lt. Carlos H.> 5.00 
Ryan. W/ O Vincent J 5.00 Brock, L t James E.. 5.00 
Reilly. Bernard 
Hughen, Thomas A 10.00 F 2.00 Saegert, Gerald W.. 5.00 Carver. Sg t Robert B 10.00 
Schafer. Lt. A. Maurice 100.00 
. 15.00 

Laughna. Frederick J.. Sandmaier. Lt Phillip J., 10.00 Clemens. William M., Jr.-20.00 
 10.00 

Lee. Maurice W. . Smith, L t Terence J 10.00 Conforti, L t Francis J -10.00 
$215 00 

McGee, Francis S 5.00 Toyne, L t Francis W. 10.00 Degenhart L t Robert W. -5.00 
10 00 Grand Total No. Contrib. 
Malcolm. James A Worley, L t Lloyd F. 5.00 Doerr, Pv t John H , 10.00 Myers, Herbert G Doutel. Sg t Frederick C — 5.00 
, 10.00 $967.00 84 No. in Class 9o Contrib. 
Neal, Adrian D.. 10.00 $416.80 Dunn. John H.-10.00 Proctor. Robert E., Jr.. 5.00 Grand Total No. Contrib. Eariey, William J 20.00 
472 .178 
Ryan, John J. . 20.00 $1,892.80 165 Faggen, L t Joseph E -10.00 
25.00 

Sexton. Thomas W 1938 No. in Class % Cantrib. Fehlig, .Lt Eugene A.. 2.00 
695 .237 Gibbons. Sg t Joseph W.. 5.00 
Battaglia, Joseph A $5.00 
$494.00 
Goeken, Joseph V 25.00 

Bodie. Lt. Robert J 25.00 
Grand Total No. Contrib. 
Grady, Walter T -10.00 

Borzilleri, Maj. Samuel C.._ 20.00 ^o Contrib. 
80 

$1,192.00 B rower, L t Floyd E 5.00 1941 Haas, Sgt. Joseph F. 5.00 No. in Class Dreiling, J. Alvin_ 6.00 Boyle. Capt Robert W. $10.00 Heiser, Ens. Carl R 25.00 
 L„ Freedy, John I._ 10.00 Buenger, Cpl. William E. ­25.00 Kotz. Donald H -2.50 1934 Hardart L t Thomas R 35.00 Connor. Thomas H 5.00 
422 .190 Fitzpatrick. L t George F._ 10.00 Broussard, Joseph E 5.00 Herzog, Ens. William 10.00 
Kuipers, Robert W—. -5.00 lambert. Lt Walter C.­

$25.00 Hutchinson. Thomas E 5.00 Corey. Edgar A.. 10.00 10.00 Longstreth, Raymond E.. 5.00 Daly, L t \V511iam T, 10.00  Sg t Paul T._ 
Carey, Thomas E.. 
Leonard. 10.00 

Cole, George W.. , 100.00 
Anonymous . 50.00 Del Zoppo. L t Albert J.. 10.00 Loes. Ens. Philip A. -10.00 
Coyne, Sgt. Gilbert H.. 10.00 
McGowan, Ens. William A.-25.00 

10.00 Mullen, L t Robert J.. 10.00 Dowd. W/ O Robert E 4 00 
Crowe, Leo J. 
Rlartine, Jay B 10.00 

5.00 Mullen, Robert V. 2.00 Edmonds. Millard S 6.00 Henry, John J.. 5.00 
Hayes, John J Robinson, William H.. 1.00 Essick. Capt James H 10.00 Murphy, Charles H 10.00 
Scherer, Otto E.. Gerra, Lt Ralph A 5.00 Murray, Stanford E 5.00 
10.00 Lewis, Qyde A-. 10.00 Schmitz, Pfc. John G_ 5.00 Hengel. Edward D 5.00 Nenno, Robert P.-15 00 Kazmierczak. Bronislaus J.. . 10.00 
, 10.00 Scott, Maj. John A 10.00 Hughes, Henry G . 5.00 Padesky, Ens. Robert C 10.00 
McLaughlin. John J. Masterson, John A . 2.00 
Stewart Lawrence C-25.00 Kegelmayer, Carl J.. 10.00 Palenchar. Robert E 6.00 Moran. Lt, Edward M 5.00 
Tallman. Clifford P 10.00 Keleher. Capt Edwin W._ 10.00 Perry. Thomas W -3.00 Zerbst L t John R 25.00 Kerrigan. L t J. Richard-10.00 
Shriwise, Wayne A. 20.00 

10.00 Lopardo. Lt Fiorenzo V.. 10.00 Spagnuelo, Sgt Louis J 10.00 
Motsett, WiUiam J. ~ $274.00 McCanna, Pfc. P. R.. MJ). 50.00 Timmerman, Lt Robert T.­25.00 
Panella, Alfred J. 5.00 
Grand Total No. Contrib. McGrath. W/O James H 25.00 Tracy. Lt Joseph A 10.00 
Umphrey, Thwnas J.. 10.00 
$1,316.00 97 McNamee, John H -10.00 Wacldner. William J 5.00 No. in Class % Contrib. MacCarry, Noel J.. 1.00 Wilson, L t Waldo W. 10.00 
$217.00 Grand Total No. Contrib. 
565 .172 Miholick. Lt Matthew J., Jr-10.00 Millenfaach. Mathew K 10.00 $417.50 
$1,138.00 98 Moran, Robert E-10.00 Grand Total No. Contrib. 

No. in Class % Contrib. 1939 Mulligan, L t Patrick J.. 5.00 $1,988.00 183 .230 426 
Ahem, William P.. Jr $5.00 Neenan. Joseph T.. 10.00 No. In CU M % Contrib. 
Anderson, Pv t Arthur F 10.00 O'Connell, L t Francis A-5.00 323 .567 1935 Burkholder, Sgt. Marion R_ 3.00 O'Dea. L t John F 25.00 Colleran. James P., Jr._ $25.00 Carroll, Lt E. Joseph-10.00 Odenbach, Robert C 25 00 Erdle, Frederick J 50.00 Coffey. L t James J 5.00 Pinelli, L t Ralph R 10.00 1944 Glenn. James J.. 10.00 Costcllo, J. William 5.00 Porawski. Thaddeus S 10.00 Brunetti, Sg t Benito E -$10.00 
Henneberfrer, Robert L.~ 15.00 DeCoteau, Roland F.. 6.00 Powers, Capt David I 5.00 Casey, Daniel F„ Jr. 5.00 Kaley, Joseph J 10.00 Dreiling, Cpl. Virgil T.-6.00 Schaffner. Irwin J, 5.00 Carney, Eugene M 5.00 Kelly, L. Francis™ 2.00 Foye. Lt Thomas P.. 5.00 Specca. John M.. 5.00 Colianni. Orville O 25.00 Xogan, Lt. John H.. Jr.. 5.00 Frericks. Ens. Theodore P— 15.00 Stefanik., Lt Ervin A.. 50.00 Dempsey. Raymond J-3.00 3Iattliews, John J.. 5.00 Gutowski, John Z„ 10.00 Stine. Charles E.. 10.00 Dratz, Ens. Richard A. 5.00 Montgomery. Charles R.. 10.00 Hildebrandt Sgt Hugo J.. 5.00 Van Swall. Hawley E.. 5.00 Gallagher. Ens. James E.-10.00 
Ghisliottj, Ens. Edward E.. Griffin. John A.. Healy. William M.. Jr. _ Keelan. Ens. Edward J— Kelly, Lt. James R KerriKan, Thomas E. Kinney, George lArdie, Lt. Leo J.. Larson, Ens. Oscar P. A... Leary, Pvt. Warren D — McAuliffe, Robert D McAloon, John B.. Mann, Lt. John F. Martina. Ens. Robert J.. Myers, Philip F.. Patterson, Charles J.. Quinn. Stephen R— Seshers. Ens. Charles E. Stumpf, Ens. Francis J. Thomas, James C. 
25.00 S.OO 
5.00 10.00 20.00 5.00 2.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 25.00 15 00 10.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 15.00 5.00 

J270 00 Grand Total 
>~o. Cimtrib. 160 

$1,717.00 No. in Class 
% Contrib. 253 .632 
1945 1946 
Bresnahan. John C» $5.00 
Edwards, Arthur M.„ 

Cahill. SKt. James E.. 5.00 
Lacey, Pfc Hugh B„ Castle, William E 5.00 Dcegan, Sst. John F... 10.00 Imelde, Sister M._ 1.00 

Grand Total Jcnninss, Emmit M» 10.00 

$814.00 

Kent, Francis J 5.00 Lesmez, Alvaro V 5.00 Lulli, Enrique R. 5.00 Manzo, Michael B 2.00 1947 Martin, Richard N. _ 1.00 
Palladino, Robert F_Murphy, George I>«. 5.00 O'Connell, Cpl. Richard E 7.50 Roberto, Sister Mary, RSM_ 1.00 

Grand Total Romaine, Sister M., SSJ 1.00 

Ryan. Harry J SchaefTer, James W Treacy, John C-. Vatter, Joseph R.. Winnifred, Sister Mary, 
Grand Total $455.00 
$25.00 
3.00 5.00 25.00 
7.00 1948 
RSM_ 1.00 
Schmitt. John R 
$109.50 No. Contrib. Grand Total 59 $6.00 

ADDITIONAL SERVICE MEN* 
Key to letter with each name: A— Army; N—^Navy; M—^Marines; MM— Merchant Marine. 
.\lvarez. John M.. Ens., ex. NT. Wilmington, Del., X.; Antignani, Ernest A., Pvt., e.x. '47, Bridgeport, Conn., A.; Archer, Arthur, E.. Ens., ex. '47, Maywood. 111., N.: Archer, John A., Ewing, Neb., N.; Archer, John J., Ens., ex. '47, N. y. C, N.; Armil, Richard W., Detroit, X.: Austin, Carl R., Lowell, JIass.. X.; Aymen. Robert, Detroit, X. 
B 

Bacchus. Wilfred A., Ale.'candria, Minn.. X.: Baes, William J.. St. Louis, Mo., X.: Balaban. James A., ex. '47, Brookfleld, 111., discharged, A.; Balbierz, Richard A., Ens., Buffalo, X. Y.. N.: Banworth, Cletus S.. Lt. (sg), '27, Elizabeth. 111., X.: Barch. Richard A., Ens.. e.x. '47. Xat­rona. Pa.. X.; Barr, Lawrence J., Chicago, X.': Barry, John R., Lt. ex. '42, Xewton, Mass., X.: Beauchamp, Rr.y L., Ens., ilarquette. Mich., N.; Beaullleu, Theodore C„ Broussard, La., M.M.; Bedlent, Lemoyne E., Warren, Ore., X.: Bellfuss, Harry R., Red Wing, Minn., X.; Be­
. retz, Charles N.. Sgt., '27, Kingston. Pa., dis­charged, A.: Bllger, William R., Bellevue, Ky.. N.: Birx. Henry L.. Linthlcum Heights, Md. 
Bodoh. Robert E., Ens., c.x. '47. Marshfleld, Wis., X.: Bogdziewicz, ^hllcliaet. Jersey City. 
N. J., M.M.: Bonner, William J., Evanston, III., X.; Bonnot, John T., Pvt. Canton, O., A.; Boothby, George S.. Abington, Mass., X.; Braun, James W., Ens., '45, Athens, Wis., X.: Brau­weiler, Jean R., Ens., ex. '47, Chicago, X.: Bresnahan, John C , AyS, '45, Lawrence, M.iss., N.; Brink, Leonard C, Ens., Fosston. Minn., X.: Brocato, Joseph V., ilcrigold, Sflss., X.: Broscha. Nell J., Ens., ex. '47, Hudson, S. D., X.; Broun, LeRoy R., Ens., '45, Los Angeles, Calif., N.; Brown, Edward S., Ens., ex., '47. Lawrenceville, 111., N.; Bruno. Fred C., Red Bank, N. J., A.; Bryant. John R., Gibson City, 111., N. 
Buckley, Brian J., Ens., Chicago. X.; Burke, James E., Ens., ex..'47, Cincinnati. O., N.; Burke, John P., Ens., Lombard, HI., X.; Bur­leigh. Calvin H., Blddeford, Me., Discharged. 
* IneiUtolng names and decreasinr aTallabte space cambined to make - necessary a comlensa­tioa In this section of the "Alnmnos," with the rcsolt that yon see here in the 238 names listed. It sboBld be recalled tbat a name Is oaed only once in "Additional Merrice 3Ien," when the AInmni Olllce first hears that the man is in service. 
Many of the men listed here are former V-12 students In the jniversily. Since their statns as Blamni remains Xo be defined, a class .year for each of them has been omitted. 
A.; Burns. Richard F., Pvt., ex. "46. Belolt, Wis.. A.; Bushert, Craig V., Ens., ex. '47, Bethany, 111.. N. 
Cahill, John J., Ens., ex. '47, Albany, N. Y., X.: Caldwell. Joseph M., Pvt., Beaufort, S. C, A.; Callan, Leo D., Florence, N. Y., N.; Camp­bell, Harrison S., Ens., ex. '47, Lincoln, Neb., X.: Cannava, Anthony L., Medford. Mass., N.; Cannon, George W., Ens., '30, North Mtiskegon, Mich., X.; Caplan, David R., Ens., Peoria, 111., N.: Carey. Matthew G., Ens., ex. '47, R.ipid City, S. D.. X.: Carey, Robert J., Ens., Knox, Ind.. X.: Carmola, Anthony A.. Dover, O., N.: Carrlngton, Wilburn A., Vanceburg, Ky., N.; Cartwrlght. Charles C, Ens., ex. '47, India­napolis, Ind.. N.: Cassady, Edward W., Jeffer­sonville, Ind.. X.; Cassldy, John J., Pvt., ex. '47, Xortolk, Va., A. 
Castle. William E., '45, Lockport, N. Y., N.: Cathcart. John W.. Jr., Harrisburg, III., N.; Cattle. Jules J.. Ens., e-t. '4G. Philadelphia, Pa.. N.: Cavanaugh, William T., Pvt., Bonner Springs. Kans., A.: Champlin, Robert E., Ens., Ames, la., X.; Chapln. Roger L., Fremont, Ind.. X.: Cirillo, William J., Brooklyn, X. Y., N.; Clark. Joseph C. Ens., Pontlac, Mich., N.; Clark, William M.. Ens., e.x. '47, Ernest, Pa., X. 
Coffey, James J.. Lt., '39, Springfield, Mass., A.: Colver, Robert W., Mishawaka, Ind., N.; Comstock, William H., Ens., Springfield, 111.. N.: Conlon, James C, Ens., Union Mills, Ind., X.: Connell, Robert E., Pvt., Houston, Tex., A.; Connors. James J., Patchogue, New Y'ork, N.; Corbltt, John E.. Ens.. Bloomlngton, HI., N.; Corrlgan, John T., 1st Lt., '35, Wauwatosa, Wis., A.; Costa, Joseph S., Spring Valley, 111., .\.; Cowan, John W., Ens., Nashville, Tenn.. X.: Cox, Robert D., '45. River Forest, HI., N. 
Craney. Marlon J., Indianapolis, inactive duty, X.: Cronin. Mark A., Ens., ex. '46, Chicago, X.: Crowe. Timothy J., Ens., ex. '46, Chicago, X.: Crowell. Donald J., Pvt., Cincinnati, O., .\.; Crowley, John F., 2nd Lt.. ex. '44, Elkhart, Ind.. M.; Crowley, John R.. Ens., ex. '45, Hiug­ham, Mass.. N.: Cutt, Michael J., Ens., ct. '46. Tonawanda. X. Y., N.; Cutter. Robert F.. Ens., ex. '47, Auroni. Ind., X-
Daley, Donald L., ex. '47, Portervllle, Calif., X.: Damewood, Kelsle J., Coburg, la., N..; Davidson. Ivan S., Chicago, N.; Davis, Francis J., ex. '47. San Diego, Calif., N.; Davis, Harlan W., Litchfield, III., X.; Demlng, James R., Henderson, Tenn., X.; Dempsey. Raymond J.. A/S. '44. Jollet, HI., N.; DePauw, Ben M., Lake Forest, 111., X. 
Dlckman. Donald E.. Muskogee, Okla., N.; Diebolt, William E., Detroit, N.; Dillon, WIl­11am R., 1st Lt., '36, Crafton, Pa., A.; Dlscher, Dunlne M., Ens., Wausau, Wis., N.; Doerr, John H., Pvt., '43, Buffalo, X. Y., A.; Dolby, Bruce 
Subscribcfs 

. $10.00 Bnmell. Very Bev. Vincent . 10.00 R. (OJ*.) $10.00 Notre Dame Club of St. Louis. 
$20.00 
Mo. ^1,600.00 

N*. Contrib. 
Rapp, William A—J 2.00 

IS Tracy, Gerald B 10.00 
$1,522.00 Graad Total No. CoaMbL $10.00 $2,941.17 20 
$10.00 N*. Coirtrib. RECAPITULATION Total this period -$11,513.40 lAst previous total, less charges : .$46,918.27 Grand total to date $58,431.67 $1.00 Total in Classes-10,680 Total No. Contributors 2,701 
$1.00 KcGoBtrib. Per Cent Contributors ,253 
2 . Averase Contribution $21.63 
A., Huntington, End., N.; Dowd. Edward J.. Lt., er. •45, Louisville. Ky., A.; Drennan, John P., May wood. 111., A.; Dues, Joseph J., Ens.. Minster, O., N.; Duffy, Richard J., Salem, Masa.. N.; Dvorscek, John, Ens., ex. '47, Chicago, III.. N.; Dwyer, John T., St. Louis, Mo., X. 
Edwards, .\rthur M.. Rt 3/c. ex. '46. Mont­clair, N. J., X.: Eich, Leonard H., Stockton. 111., N.; Ellers, Carl J., Deadwood, S. D., N.; Elderkin, Charles J., Valley Stream, N. Y., N.; Emblom, William J., Ens., Seattle. Wash., N.; Endress, Frank T., Pvt., Evansville, Ind., A.; English, Leo B., Ens., '35, Toledo, O., N.: Evenson, Donald R., Cpl., ex. '46, Belolt, Wis., 
Fair, Arthur B., Jr.. Natiek, Mass., N.; Fauser, Donald L^, Ens., Bucyrus. O., X.: Federer, Frank X., Lt., '32, Weehawken, N. J., A.; Fisher, Francis J., Keystone, Ind., N.; Fitzgerald, Arthur J., Rldgefield Park, N. J., A.; Fitzgerald, Raymond M., Westfield, Mass., N.; Fltzpatrtck, Robert E., Brooklyn, X. Y^.. N.; Flood, Thomas R., Ens., ex. "47, Chicago. X.; Flynn. Edward E., Bridgeport, Conn., Dis­charged; Fox, Robert C, Pvt, Bucks County, Pa., A.; Francoeur, Adrien P., '40, Nashua. 
X. H., N.; Fredrlcksen, Byron S., Wauwatosa. Wis., N.: Freeman, Poster R., ex. '47, Lincoln, Xeb.. N.; Friday, William A.. Ens., ex. '47, West Point Miss., N. 
Frye, Herbert J., SySg't, ex. '40, Cresline, O., Discharged, A.; Fuertges, F. William, Pvt. Bradford, III., A.; Furey. John J., Pfc. Med­ford, Mass., A.; Fuss. Arthur E., Ens., Floral Park. L. I., X. Y., N. 
Gadek, Raymond J., Lt., '42; Raritan Town­ship, N. J.; Gardner, Joseph F., Mt. Clemens. Mich.. N.; Garry. Robert F., Terre Haute, Ind., N.; Gately, Leonard E., ex. "47, New Orleans, La., N.; Gellner, Lawrence W., Ens., ex. '47, Harrisburg, Pa., N.; George, John B., Pfc, ex. '45, Beloit, Wis., A.; Gibson, Jay E.. 2nd Lt., '43, Mishawaka, Ind., A.; Gilbert, Edwin M., Glendale, Calif., N.; Giraldl, Arthur. Ens., ex. '47, Winters. Calif., Released from active duty, N.; GIsh, Charles W., ex. '47, Delphi, Ind., N. 
Glass, Nell M., Ens., ex. '47, Chicago, 111., N.; Glenn, Earl F., Wheaton, 111., Pvt., Dis­charged from service. A.; Gobel, Carl F., Ens.. North Sacramento, Calif., N.; Goheen, Harry B., Pvt, Huntington, W. Va., A.; Gonwa, George J., '47, Chicago, 111., N.; Goodman, Harold F., East Chicago, Ind., N.; Gorman, Richard P., Chicago, N.; Graham, Eflward .\., Pvt, '41, Sharon, Pa., -A.: Greathead. Arthur S., San Jose, Calif., Discharged; Greco, William R., Berwyn, Md., N.; Green, Timothy M., 2nd Lt., ex. '45, Hubbard. Neb., A.; Gross, Lawrence T., Lt. (Jg). '34, Pleasantville, N. T., N.; Grosscup, Benjamin C, 2nd Lt., Seattle, Wash., M.; Groves. John L., Flint, Mich., N. 
Gunn. Edwin N., Chicago, 111., X.: Gutowskl. John F.. Pvt., ex. M7, Gari", md., A. 
H 
Haesler, Joseph J., ex. MC. Upper Montclalr, 
N. J., N.; Haiiler. John J., North Platte. Neb.. N.: Hall. Robert W., Ens., ex. •47, Kokomo, Ind.. N.: Hnlpin. •William G.. Pvt.. Brooklyn, 
N. Y., A.; Hannan. Emmett D., Paducah. Ky., N.; Hanses, Edward H., Chicago, 111., N.; Hanson, Alfred O.. Ens.. Clark. S. D., N.; Harman, Paul L., Pvt., Toledo. O., A.; Har­rington, John H., Findlay. O.. A.; Harris, Kobert C, Ironwood. Mich., N.; Harshberger. Floyd vr., Minot, N. D.. N. 
Heberer, Charles W., Birmingham. Mich.. N.; Hendcrshott. Calvin L., Ens., Orwell. O., N.; Hengel, Edward D., L.t., Ml, Union. N. T., A.; Hennessey, Thomas W., Lawrenceville, 111., N.; Hennlngs, Harvey A., Rliinelander, Wis.. N.: Hessert. William R., Pvt.. Larchmont. N. T­A.: Heyvaert. John C, ex. '40, South Bend. Ind.. Discharged, N. 
Higglns, Dennis C, Spokane, Wash., A.; Hill. James J., S 2/c, '42, Superior, Wis., N.; Rogue, John L., Ens., ex. '46. Russell. Kan., N.; Hohler, Richard C ex. '46, Sandusky, O.. N.: Holthouse, James A.. Ens., ex. "46, Decatur, Ind.. N.; Holtman. Gregorj- A.. Cincinnati. O.. N.: Hoy, Robert J., Ann Arbor, Mich., N.: Hudson, Robert F.. Toledo, O.. N.; Hufnagel. Louis J.. Richmond, Ind., N-: Hull. Owen R., Weston, Mo.. N.; Huntoon. Daniel A.. Medford, Mass., N.: Hurley. James E.. Pvt.. WestHeld, 
N. J.. A.: Hutchlns. Francis H.. Mllford. Mich., N. 
I 
Ilifr, Robert E.. Montclair, N. J., N. 
J 
Jehrlng, Robert B.. Ens., '41, Muscatine, la.. 
Kaley, Joseph J., Lt.. '35, Milton. X. T. Discharged, M.: Kaltenbach. Joseph C. 1st Lt.. 
•41, Wheeling, W. Va., A.: Katz, William. Lt., ex. '45, Teaneck, N. J., Deceased. A.; Kegel­mayer, Carl J., '41, Columbus, C : Kelly, Cyril J., Lt.. ex. '45, Cr>stal Lake, N. D., N. 

Kennedy. Joseph D., Ptc. ex. '43, Norton, Kans., A.: Kennedy, Thomas L., Lt., '39, Hazle­ton. Pa., N.; Kerns. Arthur v.. S 2/c, '36, Saginaw, Mich.. N.; Kerns. C.vril B., '39. Sagi­naw, Mich., Discharged; Kerns, Edward A., Sgt.. '34. Saginaw. Mich.. A.: Klein, Daniel L.. Lt. (Jg). '43, Huntington, W. Va., N. 
Long, Charles W., Sgt., '31, .\uburn, N. T.. A. 
M 

McMahon, James D., Cpl.. Anaconda. Mont.. A.: Miller, William E., 1st Lt.. '35. Lockport, 
N. Y., A.; Moore. Norbert P.. '42, Bolivar, N. Y.. N.; Morrison, Charles G.. Ph.M.. ex. '30. Cleveland. O., N. 
N 

Nefflnger, Norbert A., Lt. (Jg). e.x. "45, Hamp­den, Mass., N. 
O'Connell, Richard E., Cpl., '41, Marshall, Minn., A.; O'Loughlin, Howard E., Cpl., ex. '45, Billings, Mont.. A.; O'Rourke. James S.. Cpl., ex. '44, Billings, Mont.. A. 
Persons. George F., ex. '47, Elyria, O., N.; Petiilo, Joseph J., Pfc. ex. '47. Asbury Park. 
N. J.. Killed in Action, M.; Podesta. Eugene J., Memphis, Tenn., N.; Prendergast. John G., "30, Baltimore, Md., X. 
Rock, Martin J., Lt.. '42, Roberts, 111.. A.; Kohrer, John A., Lt., ex. '45, Niagara Falls, 
N. T., A.; Rutz, Donald P.. Berwyn, 111.. N. 
Sanders. Edward J.. A/S, e.x. '47. Omaha, Neb., N.; Sanderson, Raymond J., Sgt., Min­neapolis, Minn., M.; Saucr\vein, Albert W., Pfc, Buffalo, N. Y., A.; Schmitt, John R., Houston. Tex., A.: Shotwell, John W., Lt. (Jg). ex. '43. Fargo. N. D., N.; Shriwisc, Clare F., Jetmore, Kans., N.; Shriwise, Wayne A., Ens., '43, Holly­wood, Calif., N.; Smith, Terence J.. 1st Lt,. '40, New Orleans, La., A.; Smith. William B., ex. '45. Reisterstown. Md., N.; Snarski, Eugene M.. Pvt., North Chicago, Ind., A.; Squires, Rollin LL. Lincoln, Nob., N.: Sutter, Laurence J., Pvt.. Akron. O.. A. 
Tehan, Harold F., Sgt., ex. '45, Rock Falls. 111., A.; Tille, Raymond J., 1st Lt., '39, Mt. Vernon, O., A. 
u 
Unverzagt, Paul P., Pfc, ex. *4-I, Evansville. Ind., A. 
W 
Weber, John H., Pfc. '39, Galesburg. 111., A.; Willenbrink, Robert H., Louisville, Ky., N.; Wolf. Robert N., Sgt., e.x. '44. Chicago. A. 
Yeiser. John T.. Lt. (Jg), '33, Paducah, Ky., 
Zenncr. Walter F., Holyoke, Mass., N. 
LAETARE MEDAL 
A tribute to the outstanding diplo­matic service of Gardiner Howland Shaw, recipient of the Laetare Medal for 1945, was paid by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president, on Oct. 21, in a citation read at the presentation ceremonies in St. Patrick's Cathedral in Washington, D. C. 
Father O'Donnell praised the exploits of Mr. Shaw "beyond the call of duty" and lauded his high achievement in the fields of diplomacy and charity. Mr. Shaw is a former Assistant Secretary of State. 

"The transactions of the Department of State," declared the Notre Dame pres­ident, "are for the most part, and neces­sarily, shrouded in secrecy; yet they in­volve the most sacred principles of in­ternational justice and national honor. We live in an age when false theories of the nature of man and of the state have drained international morality of so much of its ancient force and vitality; an age when mankind has urgent need of statesmen who will uphold the prin­ciple of human rights though the heav­ens fall. There are pretty well defined rules of war, at least on paper. . . . But when the brazen dialectic of the battle­field has brought the issues of war to a decision, and men set down to decide the problems of peace, it is difficult to find a common philosophy and morality as a basis for their deliberations-" 
"We are very sure, sir," said Father The Noire Dame Alumnus 
O'Donnell, "both from your life and from your public utterances, that in your office as counselor in the affairs of state, you were ever g^uided by those funda­mental Christian principles which are the only hope and basis for lasting peace among nations; and as far as you were able to influence the action of government, it was always toward a recognition of and respect for those same Christian principles. It is for this that we point to you as a noble example of public servant...." 
Lauding the work of Mr. Shaw for the delinquent boy. Father O'Donnell emphasized that "you have always made it clear in your teaching and practice that the driving force behind all suc­cessful social work is a recognition of the spiritual value of the individual which flows from the Heart of Christ who went about doing good." 
Most Rev. John M. McNamara, DD., V.G., Auxiliary Bishop of Baltimore and Washingfton, presided at the ceremonies and presented the medal to Mr- Shaw. Very Rev. Lawrence J. Sheehan, D.C., pastor of St. Patrick's Cathedral, served as master of ceremonies. 
The presentation was followed by a reception in the Carlton Hotel, spon­sored by the Notre Dame Club of Wash­ington, D. C. (See club news, this issue.) 
TESTIFIES BEFORE COMMIHEE 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, presi­dent, on Oct. 19, appeared before a. sena­torial committee in Washington, D. C, to testify in behalf of the Magnusson bill on legislation for a national research foundation. 
Father O'Donnell testified as a mem­ber of the Committee on Science and the Public Welfare of the Office of Scientific Research and Development (See October, 1945, ALUMNUS). 

Father O'Donnell pointed out in his testimony that, while the Mag^nusson bill may suggest a departure from the tradi­tional relationship of American universi­ties to the government, changing times of necessity bring corresponding changes in methods. 
"Even in the instance of the legislation which you are now considering," he said, "I declare categorically that I support the measure for one reason, and one rea­son only. In view of what is happening in the world, I believe that it is neces­sary for the national defense. If it were not for this consideration, I would op­pose unalterably government assistance." 
Volume 23, No. 6, December, 1945 J9 
Br RaiBMiid I. Donaran. '42 
» »

ATHLETICS 
BULLETIN 

Notre Dome lost to Great Lakes, 39-7. in the final gome of the season for both teams, giving the Irish a gratifj^ing 1945 record of seven won. two lost and one tied. As of Dec 1. Great Lakes was one of the countr7's greatest teams. Notre Dame on the other hand showed the re­sults of a rugged campaign and. porticu­larly. of the five straight games "on the road." starting with Novy and Army. Even the deep desire of the squad to win for Hugh Devore in his last game as Notre Dame's head coach could not provide enough impetus for a victory. 
FOOTBALL 
Students, alumni, fans and sports writers are still singing the praises of Coach Hugh Devore and the 1945 Fight­ing Irish who displayed one of the most remarkable flares of spirit in Notre Dame athletic history to finish the sea­son among the top elevens in the nation. 
Hughie started the season with one of the biggest question-mark teams in the Midwest. Seasoned with a few vet­erans such as guards Fred Kovai and John Mastrangelo, end Bob Skoglund, quarterback and captain Frank Dance­wicz, tackle Pete Berezney and half­back Elmer Angsman, Devore and his assistants were forced to rely princip­ally upon untested freshmen. And based upon the outstanding record of 7 wins, 1 loss and 1 tie entering'the Great Lakes game, his freshmen ahd veterans alike came through in a "manner which could only be hoped for." " • 
Phil Colella, freshman naval dischargee who was playing in his first collegiate game at left halfback* for the Irish, broke off tackle on tlfe first play of the game against a favored Illinois team for a 76-yard touchdown, gallop. Stanley Krivik, discharged AAF pilot, calmly drop-kicked the extra point and :that­was all the Irish needed for a 7 to 0 victory. The Notre Dame forward wall displayed tremendous courage as they outcharged the Illini and held for downs on three different goal line stands, one within inches of the promised land. 
Again the following week, the Devore­men journeyed south to Altanta no bet­ter than an even bet against a promis­ing Georgia Tech razzle-dazzle attack. The Engineers tallied first and led, 7 to 0, early in the initial period, but that was all in the way of scoring for the southerners. Notre Dame opened with an aerial attack by Frank Dancewicz and at the end of the tilt were using third and fourth stringers to win going away, 40 to 7. 
Coach Tuss McLaughry brought a weak Dartmouth eleven into Notre Dame Stadium and the Irish trotted every physically-sound member of the squad into the tussle in an attempt to hold down the score. Phil Colella took a pass from Dancewicz on the opening play of the game for a touchdown, and from this point it was strictly no contest. Final score: Notre Dame, 64; Dartmouth 0. 
Pittsburgh's Panthers, upset the week 
1945 N D FOOTBALL BECOBD 
Notre Dame 7. Illinois 0 
Notre Dame 40. Georgia Tech 7 
Notre Dame 34. Dartmouth 0 
Notre Dame 39. Pittsburgh 9 
Notre Dame 56. Iowa 0 
Notre Dame 6, Navy 6 
Army 48. Notre Dame 0 
Notre Dame 34. Northwestern 7 
Notee'Dome 32, Tulane 6 
Great Lakes 39, Notre Dame 7 
Won 7; lost 2; tied 1. Total points: 255; opponents' total points 122. 

before the' Notre Dame game by Mich­igan State, dug in with determination in an effort to turn back the Irish, and bat­tled the Blue and Gold on neariy even terms daring the first half. Notre Dame was forced to capitalize on a fomble and an intercepted pass to maintain a 12 to 2 advantage. The second half was a different story; both the passing and running attacks of the Irish began' to function with utter effectiveness and the Notre Dame machine rolled into a 39 to 2 lead before Pitt tallied on a despar­ation pass in the closing seconds to make the final count 39 to 9. 
It wasn't a very happy homecoming for Notre Dame alumnus and former basketball coach Clem Crowe, '26, as he led a youthful Iowa eleven against the Irish. Coach Devore vainly tried to spare Crowe's Hawkeyes; he even had the Irish punting on third down and using only three elementary plays in the sec­ond half. But the Hawks just didn't have it and took a 56 to 0 pasting. 
Notre Dame, at this point rated No. 2 in the nation behind mighty Army, placed a five game winning streak on the block against potent Navy in Cleve­land's Municipal Stadium. The Irish line tamed in their best performance of the season and for better than three quar­ters the Notre Dame eleven still boasted a perfect record. Frank Ruggerio, though he suffered a badly cut chin, early in the first period, drove over for a touchdown in the initial quarter to give Notre Dame a 6 to 0 lead. Stan Krivik's dropkick for the extra point was blocked. This inaigin held up untfl late in the fourth quarter, when a pass from Dancewicz to Skoglund was intercepted by the Middies' Clyde Scott who dashed down the sidelines for a Navy.touch­down to knot the count. Navy's try for the point was wide. 
With less than two minutes remaining in the ball game, George Satterman tossed a tremendous pass to freshman 
The students. lefL greet the team, right, as it returns from the 4S-0 defeat by Aimy. 
The Notre Dame Aliminus 
Bill Leonard who was pulled down from behind on the Navy 15. On the next play, Dancewicz dropped back and threw a perfect pass to Colella in the corner for what many observers thought was a touchdown. The officials ruled, however, that Navi''s Tony Minisi had thrown Co­lella out of bounds before the ball cros­sed the goal line, and, although it was obvious that Phil's feet were across into pay dirt, the Irish had been deprived of a winning score. The Navj' line stiifened and Dancewicz was inches short of a touchdown on a line buck. Terry Bren­nan was stopped on the final play of the game through center and Notre Dame had to be satisfied with a deadlock. 
History repeated itself in Yankee Sta­dium as undefeated Notre Dame and equally unblemished, Army met to de­cide national supremacy. Very early in the game, Elmer Angsman fumbled and Army recovered, deep in Irish territorj'. Davis promptly circled end for the first score of the game. Notre Dame stiffened at this point and for the remainder of the quarter actually had the Cadets on the defensive deep in their own terri­tory. Blanchard and Davis, Army's touchdown twins, were not to be throt­tled, however, and the West Point power and reserve strength began to tell as the Cadets scored almost at will in the sec­ond half to -win, 48 to 0. 
A vastly improved Northwestern elev­en was unfortunate in catching the De­voremen on the rebound and what was expected to be a nip and tuck affair turned into a virtual route. The Wild­cats marched all over Dyche Stadium in the first quarter, but twice the Irish line stiffened inside the 20 yard line. Prom this point on, with Chicagoan Elmer Angsman playing his. greatest game of the year, Notre Dame was not to be denied. The Irish gained a 27 to 0 lead before Northwestern scored and Notre Dame forged to the sixth vrin of the sea­son, 34 to 7. 

Monk Simon's Tulane Green Wave had played "hot-and-cold" ball all sea­son long and, although they were noted for their upset wins, the southerners were no match for the Irish as the two teams met before the largest crowd ever to see a regularly scheduled football game in the South. Notre Dame was at full strength for the first time since the Navy game. Tulane led at the half, 6-0, but Notre Dame's all-around strength made the second half a runaway. 
BASKETBALL 
Elmer Ripley, on leave of absence from Georgetown University, made his debut as Notre Dame's new head basket­ball coach when the Irish opened their ley was named head coach when Clem Crowe, '26, left to accept the position as head football coach at Iowa Univer­sit}'. 
The Irish entered the 1945-46 cam­paign with a veteran-studded quintet, including all five starters from the 1944­45 season. In addition, Leo Klier, Ail-American forward during the 1943-44 season, was discharged from the Navj' and has returned to school. 
The starting lineup for the initial game was expected to include Vince Borj'la, who shattered all individual scoring marks last season and who re­cently resigned from the TJ. S. Naval Academy, at center; George Ratterman and Klier at forwards; and Billy Has-sett and Johnny Dee at guards. Frank Gilhooley, a regular last year, also will see plenty of action, as will Joe Sobek, who recently returned from the service. 
The team will play 10 games at home and 12 on the road, including three in 
Chicago Stadium.  
The schedule follows:  
Dec.  8  Atterbury  Here  
11  Chanute Field  Here  
15  Wisconsin  Here  
19  St. Louis  Here  
22  Purdue  Here  
Jan.  2  Purdue  There  
5  DePaul  Here  
11  Great Lakes  There  
14  St. Louis  There  
18  Great  Ljikes  Chicago  Stadium  
22  Marquette  Here  
26  Kentucky  There  
31  Michigan State  Here  
Feb.  2  Northwestern  Chicago  Stadium  
7  Canisius College  Ihere  
9  N. Y. U.  There  
13  Iowa Pre-Flight  Here  
16  Marquette  There  
20  Michigan State  There  
20  DePaul  Chicago Stadium  
26  Northwestern  Here  
Mar.  2  Detroit  There  


season, playing Can:p Atterbury. Rip­
Coltlla takes a 47-7ard pass from Doncewicz in the Illinais game. 
Volume 23, No. 6, December, 1945 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
Centra/ New York 
Henry T. Ilickey, '38, 308 Cayuffii St., Syracuse, Fre»i.; Ilavvley E. Van Swull, Ml, 1202 Harrison St., Symcu>c. Sec. 
Tlie Central New York Club met on Nov. 2 at the University Club of Syracuse for lunch and to listen to the Xavy game. 
Four of the boys homo from service and dis­clmrged who were to attend: Jack McAuliffe, 
•39. Tom Walker. '39, Itobert Cox, Ml, and Itabe ratnani. Ml. Also expected wore: Dan miliums, '31, Johnny Nyikos, '27. Mark Mo4m­ey. •27, Leo Kclle.v, '21. IJill Byrne, '36, Fred DeLany, '30, Vincent Ilronii. '23, Rev. John Harrison, '41, and Kev. Frank llarriS4»n, '33. 
Bob Cox. MI. and I were at the Dartmouth Club smoker previous to the Syracuse-Dart­mouth game. Milt Pieinil, '41, invited us and it certainly was good to see him. He looks fine and is doing a wonderful job as assistant coach of Dartmouth. All the Dartmouth alum­ni told me he was extremely well liked by all fellow players, coaches and student body. 
llawley Vnn Suall. 

Central Ohio 
Louts C. Murphy, '33, 2357 Livingston Ave., Columbus, Pres.; Daniel F. Cannon, '30, 8 East Broad St., Columbus. Sec. 
At the Seneca Hotel. Columbus, we had a farewell luncheon for Lt. Col. Robert B. Rior­dan, '24, about to leave Ft. Hayes for service in the Pacific. Those present besides Col. Rior­dnn, were Lt, John S. Mortimer, Kay J. Eichen-Inuh, John R. Murphy, Joseph K. Ryan, I^^in 
J. Weichel, Tom J. Sliedian. Bud Murphy. Phil Prendersrust, Rev. Otis Winchester, Rev. Georjtre Beltinsr, Bernard Conroy and Karl Murtcrsteck. A proposed club scholarship was discussed. 
Jack Ilunlon was released from the Army at Drew Field. Fla., and is now in Columbus at 1S24 Wilson Ave. Ray Eichenlaub's son. a former German prisoner of war. has returned. Ilarrj' Nestor's son was in Burma and was apparently to be there for some time. 
To any alumnt in Columbus, or passing through, we extend an invitation to attend our luncheon at tlie Seneca Hotel every Monday. 
Ban (TaniHin 

Chicago 
John W. DorRan. *29, 10 S. La Salle St., Pres.; Thomas S. McCnbe, *23, 11 S. La Salle St., See. 

Tom Byrne, '25. of Cleveland, president of the Alumni'Association, was a recent visitor to the Chicago Club offices. Bill Cinder, '31, president of the Western Pennsylvania Club, also stopped in when he was in the city. 
The following Notre Dame servicemen have returned to civilian life in the Chicago area: Ed Slack, '40, Jack Sejfers^m, '44, John Pender­jcast, '35. Tom Liston, '40.Carl Quinn, '40. John Lucas, Ml. Paul Klee, '39. Jim Lauermnn, Ml, John Kiple, '34. John Monaco, *3S, Albert Del /oppo, '41, Diek Mizervkl. '40, Vince Giesler, *40. Lawrence Petrosliius, '41. Joe Doi^:an, '37, Vince Ducey, *2S. Joe MvCabe. *30. Arnold Maes. '39. Paul Kelley, '39. llarrj- MeDonufCh, '39. Frank O'Dou-d, '42, Herb Clark, M3, 3Ierv BuRcn, '42. and Frank Dotvns, *31. 
Please advise the club of any Xotre Dame veterans in hospitals in the Chicago area. The club has been privileged to meet Bob O'Callav­liau of Ironwood. Mich., now at Hincs Hospital. The club arranged to have Bob attend a game of the recent World Series and also to attend the Xortliwestern-Notre Dame football game. 
Delaware 
J. Fendall FroniufT, *37, 416 Geddes St., Wilmington, Pres.; John E. Reith, '41, 1015 Park Place, Wilmington, Sec. 
Tne club is expanding its activities lately in keeping witJi recent requests from the Univer­sity. A committee has been appointed to handle job applications by returning Notre Dame serv­icemen. A committee for "Religion and Citi­zenship." headed by Tom Degnun, has been formed to study means of increasing the Cath­olic Action of the club members. 
Plans for the. Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday, Dec. S, are under way. with Bob Thomas in charge. Kuss Kurtz and J<»e .^Iclntosli have put their athletic talents to work and are now coaching a Catholic boys high scliool in Jersey—expect to send some talent to Notre Dame soon (too late for the Army game). The next meeting will be held at the duPont Country Club at Ponns Grove. 
N. J., to accommodate the "other side of the track" club members. 
AValt Cordes and wife were in town the week­end of Nov. 3, down from GrnseHi in New Jersey. Report is that Wil Anzilotti will be back in town soon—and right after buying a home in Louisville. 
John E. Reith 

Detroit 
Norman J. Frwlericks, '35, 1486 Gratiot Ave., Pres.; John T. Annus, *35, 16514 La Salle, Sec. 
Tbe football trip to Cleveland on the D & C boats was a tremendous success. We had one boat with only alumni as passengers and we had to charter another boat to take care of the overtlow crowd and the friends of Notre Dame in Detroit. Jtihn T. .Annus 
Fort Wayne 
Paul Sagstetter, *25, 203 W. SlierwtMHl Terrace, Presi.; l*aul Be Wnld. ex. '39, 932 W. Berrj- St., Sec. 

Harry G. Hogan, *04. the vocational chair­man for the club as well as the nationally known chairman of the Veterans Aid Com­mission of Ft. Wayne, addressed the ciuli at Us luncheon meeting on Oct. 15 on various aspects of assistance for returning veterans. 
Tlie following club committees were an­nounced by President Sagstetter: 
R4ibert Eggeman, chairman assisted by: Maurice DeWald, Fnink Hogran, Art Miller, >*orh Sehenkel, and Benuird Kearns. 
Hcligion and Citizenship—Herman Centlivre. chairman assisted by: Paul Venderly, Harry Umtibreeht, Frtmk McCarthy, GtMuld .Morsches. Paul Schruntz, and Ed Sulllvun. 
Veterans* Aid Committee—Harry Ilogan. chairman assisted by: Donnelly McDonald, Leslie Logan, Ilenrj' Husley. John (hirton, Thnmns McKienuin, Louis Woodka, Louis F. 
Niezcr, Fred Schoppman, Dr. J. L. Wyatt, III, John Williams, and Paul DeWald. Sick committee—Paul Venderly, chairman assisted by: Tom Hoylan, and Joseph Madden. 
Publicity Committee—Phil Niear, chairman: Paul DeWald. 
At a meeting on Oct. 30, the Catholic pastors of the city met at luncheon with a Notre Dame group to d'scuss furtlier the part of local Notre Dame alumni in aiding returning veterans. William R. Boidey, assistant alumni secretary, who is in charge of the Notre Dame vocational program nationally, outlined the veterans' work which he is directing, and each of the pastors spoke briefly. President Sagstetter presided and Mr. HuKan was the toastmaster. 
The following Notre Dame men were named to participate in the General Council which will coordinate the aid to veterans In the Cath­olic parishes: Henry HoNley, chairman; John Carton, D«mnelly P. McDtinald, Paul De Wald, Luuw W4MH In, Fred Schoppman and John Williams. 
Kentucky 
.Marion Heffcrnan, '28, 1830 Frankfort Ave., Louisville, Pres.; Eugene J. Steoerle, '23, Kentucky Home Life Bldff., Louisville, Sec. 
At our October meeting we were pleased to have with us again SjSgt. John Bannon, '32, who had served three and a half years with the army. At the same meeting Lt. Bill Woer­ner, '38, also dropped in for his first meeting after serving four years in the Army Air Corps. We are all glad to see our old friends and trust that we shall soon have our full member­ship once again. 
Bill Bosler has again been kind enough to contact the University of Kentucky and has secured for the club a block of tickets for the Kentucky-N. D. game in Louisville, Jan. 2G. 
At our dinner meeting of Dec 13. Jim Arm­stroHK, alumni secretary-, will be' the guest of the club and the principal speaker. We have also invited to this meetlng^ the heads of the three local high schools, together with several representatives of the respective graduating classes. M. J. Heffeman 
Milwaukee 
Kdtvard J. Rtwers, '25, 709 >*. llth St.. Fees.; Roderick £ . Sallivan, '24. 4432 X. Wo<*drair Ave., Sec. 
The club held a luncheon at the Miller Inn to listen to the broadcast of the Army-Notre Dame game. There were 22 present, 21 of whom were alumni and one, an Army man, who was the only one who had anything to cheer about. There were several new faces present, which is gratifying as some of them had responded to our request to make their presence in Milwaukee known to the ofilcers. We know that our mailing list Is still incom­plete and we hope that others will send in their names to the secretary so that they can be notified of future activities of the club. 
The luncheon was ably chalrmaned by Harold Wats<in, a ver>- busy man. Indeed. Harold, In addition to teaching a course in Public Speak­ing at one of the local high school's evening Opportunity Schools for adults, is verj- active in his parish Holy-Name Society. He also has been making speeches at the various plants in this area in connection with the present War Bond campaign. 
The following were among those present: Eddie Rosen, Dnd Ffsrson, Bill Brunm, Frank Holdampf, John B. Xichols, Turn Hoene, Joe Slatteo'* I^r. John Dandon, John Clnnder. Chmriie O'Neill. John Barite, Tom Dixon, Harold U'at»on, Rod Sullii-an. Doacette, Casper, Beer>'> Leroy, Mr. Walburg from VTest Point and a few late comers whose names I did not get. 
On Sept. 17. the officers met at Eddie Rogers* home to study the results of the questionnaire mailed to the club members during the summer. The responses sliowed a preference for dinner meetings and dinner dances and plans have been made to hold these events during the coming months, a chairman being appointed for each event-
Dr. John Dnndon and Bill Drown arc- taking a course in Philosophy at the Xoire Dame Con­vent here. 
Gene Guldcbtni, Harold M'utMin and myself bowl on different teams in the same Holy Name league, so we see each other nearly every Friday night. K«d Sullivan 
New York City 
James F. Dw>er, '26, -19 Wall St., I'res.; John A. Hoyt, Jr., '33, 8 Wliitelmll Rd., Tnckahoc^ Wetitchester Co., X. V., Sec. 
On Nov. 7, the Board of Governors had as its guest at a dinner meeting J. Arthur Haley, director of public relations for the University, and the board w^as complimented by 3Ir. Haley on the part that it was playing in alumni circles. He pointed out that our annual Re­union and Rally preceding the Army game liad received favorable comments all over the coun­try. 
Directly after, the club held its monthly meeting at its headquarters in the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. Guest at this meeting was Col- J<»e Tiemey, who represents General Brad­ley in the Veterans Administration in Xew York. Colonel Tlerney talked on the needs of the veterans and offered his personal services towards helping the veterans of the club obtain employment and other veterans' aids. 
The club at this meeting distributed ten tic­kets for the Army game, the proceeds to be used In connection with the club*s placement bureau and other related activities- Fifty ad­ditional tickets were distributed by lot among about 60 service men present. 
On Nov. 9. the annual Reunion and Rally was held at the Waldorf-Astoria. Preceding the Rally, the Board of Governors held a reception for distinguished friends and bene­factors of the University. Father Hugh O'Don­nell, president, was present-
The Rally' itself drew approximately two thousand people from all over the countr>-. They crowded all the ballrooms of the "Waldorf, and the party was topped off by entertainment sup­plied by Ed Sullivan, famous New York column­ist. Through the efforts of 14. Cmdr. Bemie Donochue, wc had as one of our guest speakers. Cmdr. O'Callalian. chaplain of the Ill-fated air­craft carrier, U.S-S. Franklin. Cmdr. O'Cal­lahan was given a tremendous ovation. 
The success of the Rally waa largely due to the efforts and hard work of Hemey, O'Rourke and J. Uarrey paly, co-chairmen. They began preparations for this party In July and worked all through the fall. 
Placement activities as for years past, are being carried on for the club by Jolin T. Balfe, GO E. 42nd St. The ticket distribution actli'Ity of this year, so well directed by Bob Hamilton, will aid immensely In providing a financial basis for the placement program. Notre Dame veterans and ot,her Notre Dame men In need of employment aid are invited to see John. 
John A. Hoyt, ,Ir. 
Pocific Ocean Area 
Ens. Thomas W- FuHon, '42, Pres.; Cpl. Wib Marehall, Sec. 
On Aug. 12 about 45 of us Notre Damers and our guests went to Sacred Hearts Academy for Solemn High Mass. breakfast and Bene­diction. Mass was celel>rated in the Academy chapel by Father Martin Forhan (diocese of Springfield, Mass.), with the chaplain of the academy as deacon, and Father Albert Roy (Duluth. Minn.) sub-deacon. In attendance also were about 50 of the Sisters. 
.\fter Ma::s we were served breakfast in the refectory, at which Father Roy was the prin­cipal .speaker, taking as his topic "Peace." 
.\fter breakfast we took a time for relaxa­tion and for taking colored movies of the group. At about 1 p.m. we gathered at the chapel to begin a procession to accompany the Blessed Sacrament to the grotto for Benediction. On the way out ^ve sang several hymns to the Blessed Virgin, and during Benediction we recited the Litany of the Blessed Virgin and sang *'0 Sanctlssima" and other hymns. 
After returning to the chapel—and while entering—we sang "On this Day, O Beautiful Slother," and concluded with "Holy God, We Praise Thy Name" and "The Star Spangled Banner." We then left for Bachelot Hall in Sacred Heart Parish where we held our regu­lar monthly meeting. 
At the September meeting we decided to have a picnic on Sept. 30. It will be an all day affair and will be at the C.Y.O. beach house at Haleaha, Oahu. 
nllloughby M. .Marshall 
Saginaw Valley 
Thom.-K F. Van Aarle, '21, Standard OU Co., Sasrinaw, Pres. 
I just had a call from Jack Zubcr's wife. He is of the class of '31, and now a lieutenant (senior grade) in the Navy. She told me that he would be putting in at Norfolk, Va., and should be there for a few days. The three Kerns boys, Ed, Art and Cy are in the armed forces, with Cy expecting to be released soon. Jc»e Friske is. as you know, a captain in the .\rmy Air Force. 
Herb Schnettlcr, whom some of the old-timers will know, is busy with his "kraut plant" at this time of the year. I see Tom Van Aarie every once in a while. Harold Lappin and I get together for a game of cribbage as often as possible. When I don't see Joe Hart, I am able to keep track of him through his excel­lent sports column in the diocesan CZathoIIc paper. I>aiT>' Strable is busy with his lumber business and I drop in for a chat with him now and then. Bob Witchiper Is out of the army and back at his old job with the United States Graphite Co. Bill Uariey 
St. Louis 
Ix>ui-> C. FehrsTi '37^ 7571 Backinchaai Dr.. Clayton, Mo., Frcs.; Frtd McNeill, '36, 8100 W. Flori-vsunt, Sec. 
Tlie fall .tctlvities ot the club have been numerous and the participation good. Many members have become more active and things are really happening. 
Our most energetic program of late was our annual scholarship activity. Chairman Jim Hill, '35. divided the club into the Gold, the Blue and the Green teams, which were led by Fnuiki Tally '39. Paul .Arnold, '38, and Tr»t^ .4jnato, '30. respectively.. Each of these teams was broken into four squads, and the com­petition was keen among the 12 groups. The person lucky on Nov. 13 got two all-expense trips to Chicago for the Xorthwestern game. 
The club sponsored a trip for some 150 mem­bers and their friends up to Chicago for that 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 
game. AI Bavarino '35, handled It and he deser\-es a "big hand" because it was a lot of work. 
The board of directors, at its meeting, Oct. 5, inaugurated a committee to help returning veterans. Bob Hellmnc. '30, has taken on the responsibility of this work and ever>'one knows Bob will do a fine job. He is being assisted by Charles Giomi, *23. Franc» Roth. '29. and Joe McGlynn, *12. 
We are pleased to say that some of our boys are being released from service. BUI Cronk, Richard Karr, Gre ^ Keeican, Jack O'Xeil, James O'Xeal. Ja<^ Sullivan, Leo J. Lewis, Dr. Bill White, and Gene Fehlir are all back In "civles" and before long we expect 
. many more to be released- Dr. Bernard Crow­ley was home for a few- days. He expects to be released from the Navy t>efore the first of the year. 
We lost one of our most active members and finest fellows recently when Jerome Arnold, '24. our last year's president, moved to Davenport, la., where he will take charge of the Lincoln National Life Insurance office in that area-We all hate to lose Jerry, but a universal wish of good luck from the St. Louis Club goes with him. The Trl-Cities area is getting a real Notre Dame man. 
At our last general meeting a number of the students who are enrolled in Notre Dame at­tended and were the guests of the club. It is the intention of this club to have a closer relationship with the students. 
Father IVilllam J. R^iui, S*J., our spiritual director, has been in St. John's Hospital, but latest reports are that he Is out and is im­proving. 
We'd like to mention our roster and give credit to Its author, FVank X. Amato because it has proved so successful. Frank compiled the booklet about eight months ago and It has been verj- beneficial to all of the members. It contains the name, class, business and home address as well as phone numbers of everyone. It has done a lot to help to tie our club to­gether.. It will be revised annually but It is an extabllshed fact as far as the. St. Louis Club Is concerned. 
We were pleased to note in the last "Alum­nus" that IKK; (vorrilla has given us a "plug" out on the West Coast. Doc has moved to California and established in the San Fernando Valley. Fred S. McNeill 
WashiHgton, D. C. I 
Arthur J. Beffiffinan, Preii.; Joseph L. Bor­da. Boom ll-.\. Senate Office BIiU-, Sec. 
f 
The first lAeeting of the year was held on Sept. IS, at (he Carlton Hotel. The principal speaker ot thfe evening. Kip Miller of the Navy coaching staff, gave an interesting talk on the prospects of .this year's Navj' team and the wholesome rivalrj- between the Xaval Acad­emy, West Point and Notre Dame. Chairman Batch Bergman, introduced the following mem­bers ajid guests: Senator Edward P. Carville, Bemie Voll, Coaeb Decroot of the Washington Redskins, Wa}-ne Millner and Johnny .4dams of the Redskins, and Jadse .Ambrose CCTonnell. 
On Oct. 11, a luncheon of the Board of Governors was held at the Carlton Hotel with IMher John Cavanaoch, C.S.C.. vice-president, as guest. Problems of mutual interest to the University and the local club were discussed. 
On OcL 22, a reception was held at the Carl­ton Hotel in honor of the recipient of the Laetare Medal for 1945, the Honoiable G. How­laad Sbaw. This reception, which was held immediately following the presentation of the medal, was attended by Mr. Shaw: the presi­dent of the University, Rev. J. Hnich O'Donnell, C.S.C.; the newly appointed dean of the College of Engineering, Dr. Karl Schoenherr; I. A. ©"ShaaBlnieBsy, trustee of the University; Jndce CCeaaell, Seaator Carville, Congressman Joseph (VHaim, Congressman Bob Giant and about 100 other club members and friends. 

The club has outlined an attractive program for the year and invites all alumni resident in Washington who are.not already on the maii­in? list to submit their names to the vice-president. Georse C. iluvrard, Jr., at 925 Fifteenth Street, N.W. 
A large gathering of club members and friends met at tlie Carlton Hotel on Saturday, Nov. 3, 1945, to listen to the Notre Dame*Navy game. Door prizes were awarded to those attending. Judging from the response to this party. It is planned to hold similar parties throughout the year. Msgr. Sheehy, ex-Navy commander, who made such a great record in the service, was present. Judge Curran, U.S. District Attorney for the District of Columbia, Jndffe O'Connell and other prominent members of the.local alumni club were present. 
Joseph li. Borda 

Western Pennsylvania 
Wmiam H. H. Ginder. Jr., *31, ICS Broad­way Dr., Pittsburgh 10, R. D. 6, Pres.; Rady Cmkovic, '34, 830 E Ohio St., Fitts­burgh 13, Sec. 

The club's annual smoker held at the Royal York Hotel on the eve of the Pitt game attracted more than 200 alumni and friends. Coaches Haghle Devure, Jake Kline, Ken Stilley and Joe Shedcetskl and rival coach Clark Shaughnessy put In an appearance. Jim Arm­stronc, alumni secretary, had a reunion with local '25ers. 
Geon^e Martinet, Charlie Monti^umery and Ed Dean, were the Alonongahela delegation while Sam Reed and Paul Puglta came in from Waynesburg. 
The affair was a complete success, thanks to FHtK mison and IVanIc O'Donnell. And a bow to Bill Snehr and Dr. Dick O'Toole who ably managed the extra curricular activity. 
John Patterson, '41, recently discharged from the Army, Is back at the "Pittsburgh Press" as assistant editor. John Uickey, ^1. John Paviick, *34, Vince Burke, >33 and Ed Kasper, '33, are among others who are wearing new civvies. 
Dr. J. Vick O'Brien, 'SS. recently retired as head of the music department at Carnegie Tech to devote full time to private instruction. 
Bob Hartnuin returned from Washington where he had been connected with the Chem­ical Division of the WPB. Paul Baxter and Charlie (Pinky) Martin, are preparing for the auto-buyIng rush. 
Dr. F. A. Dinecn, '35, and Dr. George W. Katter, '41, now practicing in Pittsburgh, liave been attending the club affairs this season. 
Rud>' Cmkovic 

Members, of the Pittsburgh Advertising Club are singing the praises of Dean James E. McCarthy, of the College of Commerce, who recently addressed a luncheon meeting at the Roosevelt Hotel. 
Dean McCarthy's address, whicli was as time­ly as it was interesting, traced the causes of labor disputes stemming from a lack ot under­standing basic economics. The dean has been asked to return to Pittsburgh next month to speak before a meeting of the Builders* Ex­cliange. 
General Hershey, selective service director, was the principal speaker at the annual con­vention of the Industrial Hygiene Foundation, Mellon Institute. The excellent program was prejiared by the untiring John F. McMabon, '28, executive director of the Foundation. 
Dr. LTD O'Danncll, '17. and FHtx Wilson, '28, Iiave been .among the consistant Notre Dame football fans this season having seen the Dart­mouth. Pittsburgh, Army and Navj- games. 
Bill Sixsmith, *3S, and Paul Mc^rdle, '39, have also joined the new civilian ninks after Army discharges. 
Jim Devlin, *33, reports a new baby and a new job in the order named. Item 1 is Juliet, Jim's second child. Item 2 is the position of credit manager of the Ohringer Furniture Store, 5IcKeesport. Jim recently moved from Mounds-ville, W. Va., where he had managed a branch of the Lincoln Loan Co. 
John Monteverdc, '3S, recently discharged as a lieutenant In the tanks corps, is general chair­man of the Christmas Dance to be held Dec 23 at the Pittsburgh Athletic Association. John is also gaining experience in preparing baby formulas for John. Jr., who put in his ap­pearance last month. 
The Club extends Its deepest sympathies to Xavy Lt. Ed. O'Brien. '34, whose wife died last month. Mrs. O'Brien, an alumna of St. Mary's of Notre Dame, is also sur\'ived by three child­ren. Ed is stationed at Washington at present and is awaiting his discharge. Rudy Cmkovic 
Western Washington 
Robert I. PiKott, '33, 1114-31st Ave., >'., Seattle, Pres.; Charles F. OsbDm, Jr., *38, Boffle, Bogle and Gates, 603 Central Bld^., Seattle, Sec. 

The club held its annual meeting on April 9, 1945. at the Washington Athletic Club. Seattle. President, Lt. Leo J. Commlnss, U.S. N.R., presided with Charles F. Osbom, as sec­retary. In addition to the oIHcers, those present included Ednurd 3L Tobin, employed at the Boeing Aircraft Co., Edward L. Coclumn, attorney at Kent. Wash., Dr. Clarence W. ^lan­non, Joseph E. llorrigan, Harry A. Abel, Robert 
I. Pigott, X. M. Gies, \Y. H. Tiemey, Lt. IVed 
P. Zletlow, Paul Beaudoin, Lt. IMTTJT Danbom, George Britten, and Jack Lehman. Those heard from but unable to attend were Moiris £ . Stai;­rett of Port Townsend, John F. BoespflOK* PkU Hostermun, Frank J. McHogb, G. L. ?(yere, John P. English, and Louis Dhoore. 
At the conclusion of the meeting Bob Pisott was elected president and Charles F. Osbom was re-elected secretary. 
Charies F. Osbom 
LOUISIANA PREMIER 

The premier of Notre Dame's football series in New Orleans was a g:ala week­end and indicative of big thing^s ahead (even though I did come home with flu). 
On Friday noon, in the St. Charles Hotel, I met with a small but represen­tative group of alumni from Louisiana, Tennessee and Oklahoma, and plans were made for what looked like a better program in 1947. The announcement of the return game in 1946 simply speeds up the proposed coordination of the clubs in the South. 
A visit to Sacred Heart Church, to Holy Cross College, a Tulane dinner, the 
N.D. Club cocktail party after the game, a testimonial dinner to Fred Digby, a long-awaited visit to the home of Pat­rick, '88, and Bolan, '28, Burke, together with a very welcome sight-seeing tour with Bill Johnston, '44, and a few side-trips to spots of interest really jammed a long-term program into a hospitable two days. 
Charley de la Vergne and his nucleus of alumni are planning now with return­ing alumni from the service and the. co­operation of the Holy Cross priests and Brothers, to stage a full-scale celebra­tion in November, 1946.—J. E. A. 
HENNION APPOINTMENT 

George F. Hennion, '32, associate pro­fessor of chemistry and chonical engi­neering, has been appointed the first in­cumbent of the Julius A. Nieuwland professorship of chemistry. 
The new professorship was founded by Father J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president, and the council of Notre Dame in tribute to Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., who became world famous in the field of chemistry. 
Father Nieuwland, who died in 1936, came into prominence in World War I for his valuable contributions to the deadly military Lewisite gas. EKs best-known work was in connection with acetylene, leading to the invention of synthetic rubber known as Duprene and Neoprene. He also was prominent in the field of botany and it was announced recently that Dr. Theodor K. Just, for­mer head of the Department of Biology at Notre Dame, had been appointed as the first incumbent of the Julius A. Nieuwland research professorship in botany. . 
Dr. Hennion came to Notre Dame in 1928 as a freshman student in chemical engineering and during his student days served as a student assistant to Father Nieuwland in the Department of Chem­istry. He received a bachelor of science degree in chonical engineering at Notre Dame in 1932, a master of science in chemical engineering in 1933 and a doc­tor of philosophy in 1935. During the period from 1932 to 1935, Dr. Hennion served as a graduate assistant in the Department of Chemistry and continued as assistant to Father Nieuwland. As an assistant he aided Father Nieuwland in research which led to the development of synthetic rubber. He accompanied the scientist to Akron, Ohio, on Nov. 2, 1931, when it was announced before the rubber section of the American Chemical Society that rubber had been prepared from Father Nieuwland's compound. 
Since the death of Father Nieuwland, ~ Dr. Hennion has carried on in chemistry of acetylene research and has conducted extensive research in synthetic organic chemistry. He has had numerous articles published, mostly in the fields of acety­lene derivatives and reactions with boron fluoride. 
In 1935, Dr. Hennion was appointed as instructor in chemistry and. from 1938 to 1941 served as an associate pro­fessor of chemistry at the University. Since 1941 he has been an associate pro­fessor and also director of organic chem­ical research. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
»

THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
iliss Pearl Marie McGuire and William A. Walsh, Jr., '36. 
Miss Dorita Louise Klrby and Lt. Kenneth 

F. Beh, USXR, *41. 
Mrs. Shirley "NV. D'Andrea and Jtthn A. JHIIM>, ex. M2. 
Miss Carolyn Margaret Corcoran and Sgt, Richard C. Cree«r, '-13. 
Miss Anne Frances Redmond and Dr. Jtilm 

E. Flynn, ex. '-13. 
Miss Irene Michaels and Knincis C. -Ander-sun, II, ex. '4G. 
Miss Marj- Patricia McComiick and Robert 

J. Cunninicliam, ex. *47. 
Marriages 
Miss Lelia Xancy O'Brien and Lt- Cnidr. Nomuin J. llaHzer, CiSNlt, '29. Los Angeles. Oct. 20. 
Miss Jeanne Franklin Roberts and Dr. Jtilm 

B. Phillips, '37. New Yorlt City. 
Miss Patricia Myers and Major Jolin A. Scott, USMCK, '38. South Bend, Dec. 1. 
•Miss Angela Courier and I-*. (j»r) James J. Baaf, VSXR, '39, Xotre Dame. Oct. 20. Jim's brother. Lt. (jg) Robert H. Raaf. USN'R. '42. was the best man. 
Lt. Ruth Evelyn Gaudig. USXR. and It. Patrick J. Brennan, CSNK, '40, Xotre Dame. Oct. 4. Joseph T. Pawlowski. '41. was the best man. 
Miss Antoinette Cecilia Pfeiffer and I>t. Piiilip 

J. Sandmaler, Jr., '40, Indianapolis. Oct. C. 
Miss Errol Jean MacAdam. USXR. and Lt. William D. Cacan, Jr., US.MCIt, -41, Wailuki, Maui, T. H.. Sept. 1. 
Miss Lorctta Maria Gorka and Ens. Edti-nrtl 

J. Tomcik, Jr., CSNR, '41, Xotre Dame, Xov. 3. 
Miss Bette IL O'Connell and Capt. .Vrihur 3. Hnmb}-, AAF, '41, Hartford, Conn., July 10. 
Miss Marion Louise Waldron and Lt. Jumes 

D. Ijuicaster, '41, Macon, Ga., Oct. 27. 
Miss Ruth A. Tierney and J«sei»h T. Neenan, 

•41. Charleston, W. Va., Oct. C. 
Miss Vivian O'Xeil (daughter of the late Thomas F. O'Xeil, '13, and sister of Thomas 
F. O'Xeil. Jr.. ex. '47.) and Lt. diaries M. Bransfleld, CSNB, e\. '41, Xov. 15, Rye, X. T. 
iliss Eleanor B. Barany and Thomas 31. Gilroy, ex. '42. Soutli Bend, Nov. 17. 
Miss Florence Blackburn and Kiclmrd E. McIInch, '42, Manhattan, 111., Aug. 25. 
Miss Jane Antonello and Ed%vurd B. Dunigan, Jr., '43, Oak Park, Xov. 3. 
Miss Mary Saggau, sister of Robert J. Sag­gan, *41, and Ens. Getirre O. Haj-s, '43, Denison, la., Xov. 3. 
Miss Frances Patricia Parisli and Lt. (jg) Edward >'. Murray, '43. 
Miss Evelyn Marie Cressy and Cpl. IColiert J. Firth, '44. Xotre Dame, Sept. 17. 
Miss Floy Gates Terstegge and lA. (jg) James 

L. Meagher, USXR, '44. 
Miss Rosemarj- Quinn and Charles J. Rogers, ex. "44. Kiver Forest, HI., Oct. 27. 
Miss Elizabeth K.-imm and Ens. Noel F. Digb.v, BSXK, e.x. '45. 
Miss Marjorie Meulcman and Snfl Lt. Thomas 

R. Manuszak, ex. '45. South Bend, Xov. 3. 
Miss Suzanne lekel and I^- (iff) William A. Carroll, Jr., ex. '40, Chevy Chase, Md.. Oct. 24. 
Births 
Mr. and ilrs- Clem F. Crowe, '26. announce the birth of a son, tliclr tenth child, on Oct. 29. 
irr. and Mrs. Joseph T. BarneK, *29. announce the birth of Marj- Ann, Oct. 18. 
Lt. Cmdr. and Mrs. llitbart P. Shean, '31. announce the birth of Timothy Joseph. Sept- 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. Itobert J. Sullivan, *31, announce the birth of Robert James, Sept. S. 
Lt. and Mrs. James K. Collins, USXR. *32. announce the birth of Molly Laurence, Xov. 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. Fmcst C. Ilechlncer, '32. an­nounce the birth of Lynda Jayne, Sept. 20. 
Major and Mrs. Raymond J- Naber, MS. an­nounce the birth of ilarj' Carole, Xov. 6. 
ilr. and Mrs. Rrderick B. Snite, Jr., '33. announce the birth of a daughter. Sept. 29. 
•their third child and third daughter. 
Mr. and ilrs. Edn'ard I,. O'Hara, "35. an­nounce the birth of Kerry Leigh. Oct. C. 
Capt. and ilrs. Patrick J. Fisher, '36, an­nounce the birth of Patrick James. Jr., Sept. 21. 
Lt. and Mrs. John E. Kelley. '37, announce the birth of Elaine Marie, Oct. 20. 
Lt. and ilrs. Mllliam J. Shann USXR, '37. announce tht birth of William J.. Jr., Oct. 21. 
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard J. Sulli%'an, *39. an­nounce the birth of Kathleen Marie, Oct. 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Bertany, *40, announce the birth of Thomas Robert, Oct. 15. 
^Ir. and Mrs. Robert M. Dolan, '40, announce the birth of Jane Jfaureen, Sept. 17. 
Lt. and ilrs. Francis B. Kenneily. '41, an­nounce the birth of Janice Adair.' Sept. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald "E. Pavec:lio, '41, an­nounce the birtli of Gerald Eugene, Jr., Oct. 3. 
Ens. and Mrs. Bernard F. Brehl, '42, announce the birth of Robert Joseph. Oct. 2. 
^Ir. and Mrs. Daniel D. Conale, *42. announce the birth of Daniel Doyle. Jr.. Xov. 1. 
Ens. and Mrs. Kenneth E. Gempel, *43, an­nounce the birth of Kayleen JIarie, Oct. &. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jusepli N. Marcin, '43. announce the birth of Joseph Roger, Sept. 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Farchen). *44, announce the birth of Johanna Marie, Oct. 23. 
Ens. and Mrs. Edtrard J. Schaaf, ex. '45. an­nounce the birtli of ilark Joseph, Xov. 10. 
Deaths 
The Most Reverend Timof hy J. Cronley, C.S.C., D.D., '02, Bishop of Dacca, Bengal, India, died In the hospital in Calcutta on Oct. 2, according to information sent by the Rev. 
Christopher Brooks, C.S-C, '12, acting religious superior of the Holy Cross missionaries in the Dacca Mission. 
Under direction of U. S. Army doctors, located with Army aviation groups encamped near the episcopal city of Dacca in northeastern Bengal. His Excellency, Bishop Crowley, was persuaded to submit to an openition in late September. His condition disclosed to the doctors a past history of crucial suffering and a hopeless prognosis. The good Bishop never rallied from the operation and remained in coma almost all the time. 'l^Tien His Grace, Archbishop Spell-man, of New York City, was in Calcutta and called at the bedside of the dying Bishop, there was a marked effort on Bisliop Crowley's part to enter into the conversation. But the end was near, and he could go no further. 
The Most Reverend Timothy J- Crowley, C.S.C.. born in KUmallock, County Limerick, Ireland, 65 3-ears ago, received his preliminary training in the Congregation of Holy Cross at one of the houses of the Congregation in 
Bishop Crowley, C^.C. 

Prance. He made his novitiate in the United States, was graduated from the University of Xotre Dame in 1902 and was ordained to the priesthood in 1906. The same year he received his Ph.D.. with major in English, from Catholic University, Washington, D. C. After one year in the classroom at the University of Xotre Dame, the popular, young professor offered him­self for work on the Foreign Missions of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Bengal, India-Going out to Bengal in the summer of 1907, Father Crowley labored unceiislnely and tire­lessly through 38 years for the extension of the Church in Bengal and Burma. 
In 1916 Fatlier Crowley was named vicar­gencral of the diocese of Dacca and in 1923 he w'as appointed superior of the Religious of Holy Cross in the missions. In 1927, when tlie diocese of Chittagong was separated from Dacca and entrusted to the Canadian Missioners of Holy Cross, Father Crowley was named co-adjutor bishop of Dacca with right of succession. He was consecrated titular bishop of Epiphania on May 1, 1927, and succeed to the- residential see of Dacca on Dec. 12, 1929, when Rome accepted the resignation of The Most Reverend Joseph Legrand, C.S.C, D.D. 
As superior of the Religious of Holy Cross in the missions and later as bishop. The Most Reverend Timothy J. Crowley, C.S.C, D. D., displayed such a fatherly solicitude for the missionaries in his care that he drew from all a close affection and complete confidence-He knew the roughness of the road and, asking no consideration for himself, he was continu­ally smoothing the path for others. As mis­sionary there was no one in the mission whose zeal and self-sacrlflce out-did his own. Even in the early years of his episcopacy, when held to his desk throughout the week by ofUcial tasks, interviews and correspondence, he would invariably be found at the week-end setting out for some jungle station. In later years when health and increasing burdens of ottice prevented these week-end visitations, the good bishop never turned down an invitation to be present even at the most distant outposts of th'e mission when there was a confirmation class to be attended or an Eucharistic Pro­cession to be conducted. 
His Excellency was a prolific writer and handled most of his heavy correspondence with­out the aid of a secretary right up to tlie end. More than once he was seen at his desk, head drooped on the unfinished letter and pen still lightly held in hand, as human nature could be driven no further and fatigue had claimed respite in sleep. 
It will take years to get accustomed to think­ing of Dacca ilission without Bishop Crowley. His spirit, however, will live on In the minds and hearts of the missionary priests. Brothers, Sisters, and Catechists who worked under his direction. As time dulls the pain of parting, missionary work In Dacca territory will go on in his memory, a fitting monument in the hearts of men. He was a man of God. 
— (Rev.) Francis P. Goodall, C.S.C. 

According to a note received from his sister. John T. Callen, class of 1877, died on Dec. 11, 1944, In Lafayette. Ind. 
Joseph P. Shids, '00, Chicago, died In Chi­cago In September, according to word received in the Alumni Oflice from Father Matthew-Walsh, c.s.c 
As was briefly made known in the October "Alumnus,*' John I*. Coriey, '02, Chesterfield, Mo., died Sept. 13 of heart disease. Mr. Corley was one of the oldest members of the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis and one of its most active. For many years, he was host at the club's annual summer picnic-
Mr. Corley was manager of the National Indemnity Exchange, a reciprocal automobile insurance exchange, and head of one of the most prominent Catholic families In the St. Louis area. He is survived by his widow, three daughters and five sons. Paul .F. Koprowski, '31, Sf-A., '33, of Winona, Minn., is his son-in-law. 
Dr. James P. Boylon, ex. *17. died in St. Clare's Hospital,. Brooklyn, N. Y. Dr. Boylan was born in Brooklyn 50 years ago and attended the universities of Notre Dame, Colorado and Columbia. He was director of gynecology and attending obstetrician at St. Clare's Hospital. 
Dr. Boylan also was assistant gynecologist at Vanderbilt Clinic, associate obstetrician at the out-patient department. New York Poly­clinic Hospital, assistant clinical professor of obstetrics and gynecology at New York Medi­cal College and assistant gynecologist at the House of Detention for Women. His mother and two sisters sun'ive him. 
Patrick M. O'Mcara, '02-*09, architect of Catholic Institutions throughout the midwest, died Oct-26 of a respiratory ailment. Mr. O'Meara was 55 years old and lived in Uni­versity City, Mo., suburb of St. Louis. 
Senior member of the firm of P. M. O'Meara and Associates, St- Louis, which maintained ofiices in Detroit and Minneapolis, he special­ized in designing schools, seminaries and hos­pitals for Catholic religious orders. Mr. O'Menra's work in St. Louis included the Mother House and School of Nursing of St. Mary's Hospital, the buildings at Villa Duchesne, the Carmelite Convent, St. Louis University Gym-
Jianr V. Crumler, '03, Cincinnati, Ohio, who died on Aug. 27. Mr. Crumley was a brother of Rev. Thomas A. Cnunley. C,S.C„ '9S. 
naslum and DoPaul Hospital, for which his fimr was awarded a Chamber of Commerce certificate of merit in 1932. 
Surviving Mr. O'Meara are his widow, two daughters and a son. 
The "Alumnus'* extends sincere sympathy to Judse J. Elmer Prok, '13, on the death of his mother; to Hush Devore, '34. on the death of his mother; to Edward J. O'Brien. Jr.. '34. on the death of his wife; to James J. O'BriMi, *34, on the death of his father; to Andrew J. McMahon, '35, on the death of his father; to Henr>- Dewes, '44. on the death of his father. 
PERSONALS 

1Q1A '^^^' ^IdAEL L. MORIARXY, 8S15 
• T I U St. Clair Ave., Cleveland. O. 
BUI Schmitt, Portland, Ore., made his annual pilgrimage to the ilidwest and East to look over the current football situation, tn South Bend. Bill was the guest, as usual, of Jap I<aw­toa and his family. At other points he saw Freddie Steers. Bill Keileher. Ikther Mike Morlarty. Frank Cull, Harry Miller and the Scanlons (of Brooklyn), among others, and was in touch with Frank Walker of New Tork City and riric J, "Foot*' Rnell of Holyoke, Mass. At tlie latest report. Bill was wavering between taking in the Tulane game and heading back at once for the Northwest. 
1017 B. J. KAISER. 334 Fourth St.. Pitts-I T I A bunch. Pa. 
A recent report from Lexington, Vn., con­veys tlie unfortunate word that Forrest Fletcher 
ARE YOU OUT? 

So that it can keep its record* up­to-date and proTxde news for the "Alumnus," the Altmuii Office would like to know about oU alumni dis­charges from the armed forces. VW you, or some one in your family, oblige? 
continues in ill health. He and his wife reside in their home on a comer of the WashJn^ton and I^ee campus. 
191 7 ^ '' VOIX, 2eS £. Tatt St., death Bead, led. 
The Dartmouth game drew among many other visitors Eddie Ruc"^ president of the Mil­waukee Club, and Mrs. Rogers. 
I Q« Q CI.ARENC£ W. BADER, 931 Bv«ad-IT IT vrmr, Garr* I^­
The class secretary. Chick Bader, is out of the Navy and back at the old stand in Gary. He was one of the multitude who were in at the sad event of Xov. 10 In N". Y. C 
1091 ^^^ ^ ' I>*'^'*^> ^**^ Terminal 'i^owcr, I7Z I Clevefauid. OWo. 
From Dan lOiiffjr came a clipping regarding Joe'Biandy's son. Joe, Jr.. who played some good football as quarterback on the Osrdens­burg, (X. Y.) Free Academy football team this fall. Dan was in N. T. C, for the Army game on Nov. 10. 
14. Cmdr. Callix Miller. South Bend, has Just added the extra half stripe to his collection. Callix is now stationed at Great Lakes, near Chicago. 
109 9 GERAU) ASmV 19 Boricinr Road. 
• 'fc ^ Rochester, N. Y. 
From Kid Ashe: 
Our sympathies are directed to Jimmy Jone^ of Rochester, N. Y., In the recent death of his mother. 
It is refreshing to note the constant loyalty to the University and to the class of 1922 of former athletes who never fail to respond to appeals for assistance. These men are not in the athletic limelight, today, but their past deeds tn athletics are not forgotten, and their firm loyalty is inspiring, and worthy of special mention. The names of some of these men. together with the branch of sport In which they participated, are as follows: 
Danny Cuochlin, football and track; Jim Dooley, football; Lt. Cmdr. John Kelley, track: Bob Fhelaa, football and track; Chet Wynne, football and track. 
Perchance, you^may be wondering about the present doings and whereabouts of these men. Here is our latest Information: Dnnnr Coach­lin is editor of the "Waseca Herald." Waseca. Minn. Jiai Dortey is in North Andover. Mass. Lt. Cmdr. Kellcy was aboard the Elscort Car­rier "U.S.S. Croatan" in the recent fleet review in New York City. Bob Phelan is in the in­surance business, and lives in Denvitle, X. J. Chet Wynne has law offices at 10 South La Salle St.. Chicago. Lawyer Jerrr Dixon has joint offices with Chet. 
Xorsaa Sheedy of Carnegie-Illinois Steel. Detroit division, attended the Illinois game at Notre Dame. Paol Pfohl of Chicago also was in attendance. 
We are saving ample space for news of our Dubuque. la., representatives—Clarenee Zwadc, Joe and A.' Rhombers* also. Bnlph COITB of Moline. III. 
The class ot '22 ranks No. 14 In percentage of contributors to the Third Annual Alumni Fund. 
Bemie McCaCeir resigned, effective Dec. 01, his life appointment as South Bend postmaster to devote all his time to the McCaffery Com­pany of which he is secretary-treasurer. The company wholesales electrical equipment within a radius of 65 miles of South Bend. BemIe has been postmaster since May, 1936. 
26 

Ray Black, an engineer for the West Penn Power Company, ConnellsviUe, Pa., was one of the 2,000 at the Army game Rally on Xov. 9. 
Eddie Anderaon, recently discharged from the Army medical corps •with the rank of major, returned to his home in Iowa City, but took no part In the coaching of the Iowa, V- team this year. He will resume as head coach again next year. 
109 ^ PAIJI. H. CASTNER, Z6 Uoyt Ave., 
• 'M A Xew Canaan. Conn. 

A former Jap prisoner. Father John E. Duffy, promoted to lieutenant colonel, isfwas in "VVaUer Reed General Hospital, Washington, D. C. and Major DtcA Baechner, South Bend, medical corps, is stationed at Billings General Hospital. Ft. Benjamin Harrison, Ind. 
"lA. Cirf. Jade Flynn, who was In Tokyo In September in charge of public safety for Gen­eral MacArthur's military government staff, was flown to Korea early in October to set up a FBI patterned after that In the United States. He and his staff are billeted in a former Geisha House whose luxuries exceed even those of the Corby subway."—From a letter by John Mon­tajrn^* Chicago. 
m Q^A ^' ^- HATES, 393 - 7th Ave., Room *y£r9 1515, New ITorlc City. 
Charlie Molz, formerly of the 'Snvy, is back in the editorial department of the "Detroit Xews.*' 
^0^| - JOHN P. HUBLEY, S085 Brookdale I '^ 9 Bd.. Toledo, O. 
John Hurley, the sec, is, you will note, back at the old stand, having generously served a long stretch with the Red Cross in Virginia. 
JA. Cmdr. Bill Cerney placed on the Navy's inactive list at Seattle, AVash., has returned to his home in South Bend with his wife and six children, who have been with him in Seattle since early summer. 
Joe Shelly, assistant vice president of the Cliicago Title and Trust Co., was appointed vice-chairman of the A^'ictory Loan for Chicago and Cook County. 
Prof. George DriscoU of the University is associate editor of "Kalends," published by the Engineers Club of the St. Joseph "Valley. 
Rip 3CiIler, Navy line coach, has been selected as head coach of the Baltimore, Md.. All-Amer­ica pro team. 
m 0 9 jt VICTOB F. LEMMEB, Box 661, Iron­
• ' ^ O wood, Mich. 
When he wrote Vic Ijeminer on Oct. 17, JA, Cmdr. Jay BIttsenich, USNB, Xcw Tork City, expected to be out of the Navy by Dec. 1. or thereabouts. He was due for a leave of nearly 60 days and expected to take a vacation before going back to work. 
Paul Jobnson, lately of Detroit, Is now with the Kingston Products Corp. in Indianapolis. 
Cmdr. Fkank Bim, the "senior prexy, was nothing less than flag secretary to the com­mander-in-chief of the Atlantic Fleet when he wrote late in September. Frank's home ad­dress is 1818 Evans Ave., Cheyenne, Wyo. 
All the *26ers, especially, were jubilant when Cl«n. Crowe's Iowa team came through on Nov. 17 to take Minnesota by one point in tlie fourth quarter. Clem and his assistants. Bud Boerinrer and tJback Jafikwhicb, were of course downcast following the 56-0 Iowa defeat at Notre Dame on Oct. 27, and brother Ed Crowe from Detroit joined in at the gloom session in the dressing room after the game. But every­body, everywhere, agreed all through the sea­son that Clem and his helpers had done the best possible job with the extremely limited material at their disposal. 
And then, as if to clear away the gloom at once, the tenth Crowe child, a son, was born on the Monday following the lowa-N. D. game. That gives Mary and Clem six sons and four daughters. 
fiUher Keith lOoche, Toluca, HI., and Jim Ronan, Chicago, were on the campus together for the Dartmouth game. Jim said that Capt. Tom liBahy, an Army doctor, had recently been discharged and was back at his practice In Chicago. Likewise, according to later reports, Lt. Cmdr. Jim Stack, discharged from the Navy, is again practicing in Chicago, and Major Jerry ttaycSr is again presiding over New Jersey babies, after extensive army medical service. Tom Sheridan Is also "out" and back with the telephone company In Brooklyn. 
Seen at the Army Rally in N.Y.C. on Nov. 9 (in addition to Hayes): Jim. Bwyer, president of the club, Bert Cooshlin, Ed fUllon, Doc Gel-son, TiMnmy Elanel], Tom Ferynson, Bntch O'Daj*, Harold Kobertson. FWher Joe Toomey and Vic Yawman. Present for the Army game: Dennj' O'Neill, D*Arcy advertising executive from Cleveland, and his son, Denny Jr., a jun­ior at Georgetown Prep. 
At a party following the Navy game in Cleveland, Chock Mooney (insurance man and member of the Cleveland Board of Education), Ed I^'nch (soft drink business, Cincinnati). Denny O'Neill and the Managing Ed held a too-brief '26 session. And Gerry Moisches and the M.E. chatted briefly over the luncheon tabic in Ft. Wayne on Oct. 30. 
Father Howard Kenna, C.S.C.. director of studies, was one of the University's busiest ad­ministrative heads as the registration zoomed to about 2,800 for the term which began Nov. 
Ray Darst continues in the limelight as vice-president of and a partner in The Kallicrafters Co., Chicago, one of the word's leading manu­facturers of radio communications equipment. Ray's company is building a new plant in Chi­cago to handle Its vast peacetime business. During the war, the company supplied much of the electronics equipment used by the armed forces. Some of that equipment Is still hush-hush. 
The "Soutli Bend Tribune" reports that George f^race. South Bend attorney, went pheasant-hunting in South Dakota of late, but came back without a single pliez. 
JOSEPH BL BOEAND, Radio Station 1927',? SBT, South Bend, Ind. 
From Joe Boland 

Top news of the month concerns your former class secretary, Ed Be Clercq. . . .who did such a good job in these columns that I'm willing to start a movement to have him re­elected, now that he's out of the Army, Ed served with the Quartermaster Corps, as a sergeant, and noiv has his eye on a field 
SIXTH CHRISTMAS OVEfiSEAS 
Cpl. Charles H. Guinon* '26« of the Canadian Army will this year be spending his sixth Christmas oTer­seos. With oU propriety* Chuck con lay strong claim to being the Notre Dame man with the longest serrice record in World War II—"the first in and the last out" he soys. 
A veteran of much of the war's 
heaviest combat* in Africa, Italy and 
elsewhere. Chuck, then in Holland, 
expected when he wrote in late 
October that he. would be back on 
this side of the ocean by late Jan­
uary or early February, 1946. 
The Notre Dame Aliimnus 
director's job with the American Red Cross. At-the moment, he's back in South Bend with the family. 
Jack lAT^e, who has snatched the "round man' title from Jimmy Dykes and your scrivener, spent the week before the Army same on the campus—aiding the football coach­ing staff. Jack has scouted Army for Notre Dame the past several years. -. '. mixing it in with scouting for the New York Giants pro eleven; and intermingling both with his full-time job as director of the New Tork City 
C.Y.O. Jack is fast developing a national reputation as a raconteur and after-dinner speaker—which may account for that "round man" title! He left 'em In the aisles at Cleveland, before the Na\-y-N. D. game, where he acted as m. c. for both the Touchdown Club luncheon and the alumni rally before the game. 

Tn t Byrne, in the flesh, took time-out from his national alumni duties to properly welcome the team and visiting firemen at Cleveland; and Batavia, N. T., was represented there when Ceseyt of the campus trucking-firm of Casey and Neville, checked-in for the game. For all I know, the whole class of *27 was there, too— hidden somewhere in the 82,000 who attended. 
Saw FIrfIs Wilson, still looking as though he could hold down first-base, at Pittsburgh—but only for a moment. And, when Iowa came to South Bend for their game. Art "Bad" Boe­rinser came along with Clem Crowe and Chaclc Jaskwhicli. . . .ai t three coaching the Hawk-eyes this year. Bud now makes his home at Park Rapids, Minn. . . . although wife and one child are currently at Iowa City, keeping the family together through the football sea­son. Bud. like Fritz Wilson, has retained that streamlined figure. . . . got a little snow on the roof, though! 
Visiting the campus for the Dartmouth game was W. W. "Red" Smith, who is witli the "New Tork Herald-Tribune" in sports. Al I*en­bmrd is sales promotion manager with the American Foundry Equipment Company in Mis­hawaka and a note from Bon Seid tells us he's with Remington Rand in New York. 
Mmior Xdl Galone, Sharpsvllle, Pa., recently was awarded the Bronze Star Medal for meri­torious achievement as operating results officer of Signal Section, Allied Force Hqtrs.. 3ITO. He haa received the Italian Gevernment decora­tion of Order of the Crown of Italy. Knight Officer's degree, recently presented to him by Prince tTmberto. Lieutenant General of the Realm, at ceremonies held at the Royal Palace in Rome. Before entering the service, Neil was employed in the accounting department of the Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania. 
Sfajur BUI Kavanangfa received his discharge and is working for the American Cynamid and Chemical Corp. In Washington, D. C. 
The following are excerpts from an article in the LaCross, Wis., "Tribune" of Oct. 26: 
"M«|or John W. Roach, Madison. Wis., the man who cracked the greatest murder mystery In the Pacific and who set up the new Manila police department so that it has 'cleaned up* excessive vice conditions in the Philippines capital, was discharged at Camp McCoy's sepa­ration center. 
"A veteran of the New Guinea. Leyte and Luzon campaigns (he received a bronze arrow­head for the landing at Lingayen gulf) he admits to seeing more action around the Manila area than he wants to see for the rest of his life. Roach was the first man onto the beach at Lingayen. Then a captain In the trans­portation corps, he advanced 2,000 yards and dug In. For a solid week, he recalls, the Japs peppered his party with mortar and shell fire-Of his experience at Lingayen, he adds: 
" 'I was supposed to have landed with the third wai'e. so you can Imagine how I felt when I found myself all alone on the beach. No artillery support or aerial assistance. ^1 was all alone. Whew!' 
"Roach went into Manila as assistant area commander and helped clean up the capital^ crime wave. His diligence and experience routed out the capital's crooked mayor. Dr. Nicanor Santos, and his thieving police assis­ants. Two of the special investigators under Roach—the brothers de Leon, Renato and Man­uel—were kidnaped and slain. Roach recalls, and this famed case led to the dismemberment of Santos* crooked empire. 
•'In tracking down the murders. Roach used all the methods known to police officials (and some new ones he invented) and succeeded in clearing up murders of 15 officials and sentenc­ing nine of the defendants to life terms and six others to shorter dall sentences. Roach's array of evidence was so complete that seven of the defendants changed their pleas from 'not guilty' to 'guilty.' Despite the fact that his star witness had been kidnaped, he success­fully pushed through conviction of the crimi­nals and wiped out much of Manila's black market and illegal criminal trafficking. 
"During the investigation, Maj. Roach's life was threatened several times. Nineteen persons were jailed for conspiring against his life. Roach's knowledge of police work found him called upon to reorganize the Manila police department. He set up a table of organization and. according to recent reports, the task is almost completed. 
"Of the Philippine campaign—in fact the whole Pacific battle—he states it was the plain Gl's who won the war—not the generals. He declares: 
" *God bless our Gl's. Tiie American youth's initiative and intelligence paved the way for victory. The Gl's really won the war—not the generals.' 
"He amassed 105 points during his Army service, he reveals, and adds it is little more than what he chalked up as a halfback for Notre Dame during the years 1924-25-26, when the Irish won national championships with the Four Horsemen and Seven Mules. He adds: 
" 'Just to show you how old I'm getting, it was about 20 years ago next month that I was playing in the Rose Bowl.' " 
John and his wife and three children are living in Madison. Wis. 
1 091 1 ^^^'^ ^- BUGKIiEV, 617 lincolnway ' '^ O West, Mishawaka, Ind. 
From Bemie Gaibcr: 
So Bacldey Is teaching economics in Biar­ritz . . . but what is he learning in France? Give full story, Lou, your rank and every­thing. 
Prof. Cooney's death is saddening news. . . . "the beautiful spirit of John Cooney" .. . a gentleman mourned. His "journalists" will always remember his philosophic advice. 
A recent letter from Geor^ Scheuer said: "I'd like to tell about a visit Jerry (Holland, '25, "Detroit News") and I had with the late Dr. Cooney at N. D. this summer, 
"After a visit to the Log Chapel we looked in the windows of Dr. Cooney's office and saw no one. Had half expected to see him there —eating his lunch. So we went on up into the Library. Happened to look into the North (Periodical) Room and there at a table, with a hand cupped over his brow, sat the 'Doc' 
"We walked over and sat down opposite him before he looked up. He recognized us immediately, although it had been a long time since either of us had been back. The table at which he sat was Just about where I first saw him when I made out my class cards back in 1924. 
"We spoke of various people and events in Journalism classes—Including coffee-making at a Brandywine creek picnic After lunch in the dining hall cafeteria th^'Doc' headed for down­town while Jerry and I continued our tour of the campus. Seeing him had made the visit a real homecoming for both of us. 
"My news of 1928 alumni." Scheuer writes. Is limited to those I hear from through the 
•Ex-News-Times'
 which I send to anybody who shows the slightest interest in the present doings of old South Bend 'News-Times^ people. Late last summer my wife and I visited Kari 

J.
 Darde» and his wife at their home and photo studio in TitusvIIIe, Pa. They operate a por­trait studio In the winter and collect oil in­dustry pictures in the summer for a picture service Earl is planning. Also saw Earl's brother Raymond (ex. N. D.) an oil engineer. He lives in TltusvUle and works in Oil City. 


"A *28er whose address I had been seeking for several years finally turned up here in Chicago. He is Robert Capesias, and lives at 2138 Warner Ave. So Bob, who once wrote a bowling column for the 'News-Times' Is again a reader of the 'Ex-N-r and probably, the 
•Alumnus.' Bob's third son was born Oct. 8. He has four children, the three boys and a girl. We plan to get our gang together some* time soon. [Ed. note—Geo. S. has three sons.] 
"Talked to John Rickord of Armour & Co. here sometime ago but the Rickords were in the middle of a housecleanlng'or redecorating, so we cut it short. Also hear from George Kelley of the 'Youngstown Vindicator.* [He's acting managing editor—Ed.] 
•Tm still In the feature department at the 'Chicago Sun.* Last summer I was appointed a governor of the Aviation Writers Association, a national organization. My area covers Illi­nois, Iowa, Wisconsin and Minnesota." [George lives at 1329 1/2 Touhy Ave., Chicago 26.] 
Gene f^rrell, according to my Jersey spy, is managing editor of the "Newark Star-Ledger," and Ross Riley, back from military service, is again commissioner of public safety. City of Orange 
Larry Culliney, now with the Rutland Sav­ings Bank, writes from 8 Crescent St., Rut­land. Vt., that Jo« Radigao, *30, Is recently back from the wars and into law practice, and that Joe (Fkuncis) Cannon Is in Schenectady w^ith GE. Larr>* has one son and a daugltter, Patricia, born the proper day in 1945. 
Dick Parrish, according to last word long, long ago. was a staff sergeant and far out in the Pacific, with little time to write •'news** about himself. Dave Gibson was last heard from at 1222 East Cameta Drive, San Gabriel. Calif., to which I'll send Christmas greetings and promise of a letter. 
Dick Greene (Muncie, Ind.. journalist) ex. '28, had an interesting article In "The Sign," a few months ago. Used to see Dick and wife in N. T. occasionally. This excellent Catholic magazine also had an article by Jack lAveilo and story by Hairy Sylvester in November issue. Dull-witted radiosteers are missing good bet in Jack. At Army game rally at Waldorf, going up in crowded elevator, I found Jack a good man to be In front of. 
When OUi© Schell (ex-Navy) *i9 and I met Bill Booley at Rally. Bill was thinking of this space but didn't ask for copy. Also at Rally was £ d Brennan, back from New England but still in textile business. Ed has four daughters; Also saw Howard Oakes and his wife. Mr. and' ytTS. Bad Toppinir, Bill Cronln (back in N. Y. and living in Scarsdaie), Bob Hunilton and Mr. and Mrs. John Antns. The Antus family —two sons who look like John except for hair—now live at 440 Riverside Drive, N-T.C. John has removed himself from the N. T. office of alien property custodian, but he will have news for the next "Alumnus.** 
Tinrecognized. I gave Pat Canny subway di­rections out of Penn station (wonder how he liked that game In Staten Island?) and waved to Mr. and iMrs. Herb McCabe entering Gate Three at the Stadium. I believe it was IWhrr Lou Thornton, C.S.C, now of New Orleans (still expected for dinner at the Garbers), who told me Herb Is with Guaranty Trust in New York. 
Bob HonUlton dozed a few seats back of me in the Stadium. Two years of Army and Democrat tactics are wearying. Didn't see 
at the same but m^rbe hia two sons were playing In • Pittsbnrsh that day. X join Mac in askins where's M 
From. Bl 
I received a command performance request., from iMm Warfckij to sive yon some informa-' tion on the class of 1928. A few dayf before I received Loa's letter, X saw Btn tumn, '2S. in Washington, and BUI told me of lAin's traT-. els around the world. Bill looked fine and we had dimier at hia house in Chevy Chase where his very charming wife and daughter, Barbara, entertained us with eats and drinks. BlU Is still running the most serlons - part of the Federal Govehunent; but In the very near future expects to return to the private practice of law, 
A few days ago X met BOl Bailer* '28, In courU He is atU] attorney for, I believe, the Employer^ Insurance Company of Wisconsin. He told me that he was getting too old for trial work but be looked as young as when a senior lawyer he sported his cane on the cam­pus. 
We see Mil lifky quite frequently. He is the western sales manager for American Die­taids Co. and makes bis headquarters In Chi­cago. His two children are both boys. His old roommate, Ganal VlacUcgr* was-transferred rather recently from Ft. Sheridan to Ft. Riley, Kans. When last seen.. Carrol was a 'first lieutenant. 
Bick Fkeiaa tells me that Jfaa Oksitmistj, who came to Chicago as a captain a year or longer ago to do Air Force termination work, left as a major to go to Ann Arbor to the Judge Advocate (Seneral's School. Dick also saw Bak K—x at the IIIInois-Notre Dame Game. Bob was carrying six coco-colas and five hot dogs and suggested that he and Dick shake hands. He is out of the Navy and is located somewhere in Michigan, but Dick said his hands were too full to be able to talk at length. 
We have seen Toai .Walsli several times hut not recently. Dick and I had lunch with him but it was rather unsatisfactory .as far as information was concerned. We were sure that Tom was connected in some way with the Army since his headquarters were in the re­stricted areas of the Chicago Civic Opera Building, but he was in civilian clothes. Un­questionably he was doing some secret brain work for the Army. 
HowBvt PkAlia is still in the Navy and recently was transferred from Corpus Chrlsti. Texas to San Diego. Cket Rice is with the 
O.P.A. having headquarters in Cleveland. He is in charge of building construction and materials for five states. The last time we saw Chet in Chicago he looked fine,' although a short time ago the celling in his living room suddenly fell on his wife's head. I am sure this had nothing to do with any of the O.P.A. ceilings. 
Raa k Creedea is still singing his way through ^ life in and about Rivei*8ide, 111., one of our beautiful suburbs. Kajr MsIUsaa is still in the Navy and has seen a great deal of active serv­ice. I saw Edtte Rafler a few days ago in Chicago. He was proudly wearing his service pin but X did not get a chance to ask Eddie what his situation was. He looked exactly the same as when at Notre Dame. 
CoMie Ocko« was in Chicago and environs for about 10 weeks last winter. He finally left after several false starts by air for Mexico City in December and we have heard not a single word of .his whereabouts since.. How­ever, this is the season -when Connie makes his annual short vacation jaunt to Chicago so I would not be at all surprised to hear that he was in Chicago today or tomorrow. 
We saw Vfawe Baecgr some time ago. He was, as usual—^looking fine In his navy ofllcer uniform. BMc PkiikiB's brother-in-law, TatJ ToMa, has been extremely busy with his medi­cal practice In Blgin. Their second. child, a boy, was bom on Aug. 20. which happened to. be Dick's birthday. X am sure that is the only way Dick remembered that last fact. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

We see John Igoe rather frequently. John bought a house on the south side of Chicago and, apparently, expects to stay here. He is with Pittsburgh Steel and when last heard, had three children. Jack Winsertcr was in Chicago some weeks ago and Igoe, Jack, Phelan and I had lunch. At that time Jack was in Chicago with "Time" and "liife" magazines after doing quite a stretch with the O.W.I, in Africa. "We understand that Jack was re-asslgned to the New York office a short time back. 
I have two pieces of very recent news, one concerning John Gft\-wuuish, who is back as a partner in his old law firm of McDermott, Will and Emery. John •was Genei>il Hammond's executive aide in charge of the Chicago Ord­inance District until ill-health boosted him out of the Army. He has three daughters, the last of whom was born Xov^. 9. John's success in the law business Is keeping apace with his success in the family life. 
My wife called me this morning to tell me tliat Bert Korzen was retired from the Army last Saturday and would soon be back in Chi­cago." The Army shortened my old roommate's last name and also hts income. He spent two years In the service doing executive work as a private junior grade, but when release<l from the service was a lieutenant in, of all things, medical administration. Bert's wife has been in Tacoma," Wash., with him for the last six months. 
Didc Phelaa and I have been practicing law together for the last six months. He is just as difficult to get along with as he was at Notre Dame; but I bear up with his peculiari­ties because of his charming wife and three fine boys. The two older boys are big enough and tougli enough to be on the Notre Dame team at the present time and the youngsters are well on the way to the same fame. 
Some time ago I saw Ed HcKTormick who told me that he was in Chicago but Z did not get tlie information from him as to his con­nections. I know that he Is not married and he promised to call me for luncheon some day but so far I have not heard from Eddie. 
While in Washington, I visited my brother. Jim, who was in the class of 1931- He left the Coast Guard in June and is now practicing law in Washington with the firm of Sullivan. Bernard and Shea. Bay Do-malski of the class of '29, is back in Chicago to his old elective position as city treasurer, having been dis­charged from the Navy after one and one-half years ser\-ice in O.S.S. 
I hope this will help relieve Lou's burdens as far as the class of *28 column is concerned. I promise In the near future to give you any information that might come my way about any of the boys from our class. 
From I<on Boiddey: (on Sept. 23). Academic Division, Commerce Section, Biarritz American Oniversity, 6857 Overhead Detachment, APO 772, c/o P. M.. N. Y. C: 
•*The most enjoyable part of the trip was the airplane ride from Washington. D. C, with stops in Newfoundland and Iceland. "We came on a large Army transport plane, C-54. which was as comfortable as a Pullman. We made the trip in 23 hours. 
"They are just finishing up the first term of two months here now so I will not bo assigned classes until Oct. 29 when the next two-month term opens. There are. 16 days between terms during which the 4,000 students return to their units and new ones come in. The University Is arranging for me to return to Paris next week to represent them at the International Labor Conference opening there Sept. 27­
"The chaplain here tells me that about 1,000 of the 4.000 students are Catholics. He said that Guthrie McClIntlc, the Broadway director who Is in the speech department, and i are the only. Catholics on the faculty. We are organizing a Newman Club and expect to con­duct a tour to Lourdes soon. It Is only two hours from here. 
From Father Jim McShanr, S.J<: 

"John M. Carroll was separated from active duty Oct. 6, 1945 after 29 months with the Na\*>*—21 overseas. He spent all of his time outside the states as the executive office of the 12th N. Cent- Regiment (10 months in Milne Bay, New Guinea, and 9 and one half months in the Philippines, Leyte, Samar,) as lieutenant commander. 
"Coming home, I met lA. F. X. James O'Brien, ex. '22, who spent two years at Notre Dame. He was' communications officer on the 
U.S.S. Copahu. a CVE (converted victory plane carrier). In Frisco I met a familiar face wear­ing two stripes and much 'fruit salad'—it turned out to be Bob Brennan, '29, of' the famous Walsh Hall quartet of Zbnmerman, Morphy» Brannon and Brennan, etc. He told me Joe Brannon was a lieutenant commander In the supply corps, doing a swell job at Mare Island. 
"I understand Boscoc Bonjean, '29; USNR, is about to be separated. John Troy, ex. '30, is again a civlliam. I met a Father Hebert in Toclohan just about a year ago—^nephew of 
Father Pete Hebert of N. D. 
"Carroll is in Weaver Manufacturing Com­pany in Springfield, 111. John, Jr., follows in his father's cleats at Campion High; he's tlie oldest of four children." 
From JA. Cmdr. Howard Fhalin (in the Pacific) to I<ou Buckley: 
"I certainly feel that you are due an apol­ogy from me. I had promised to send you some news for the 1928 column. My intentions were good, but when I got back to my base at Corpus Christl. I found orders awaiting me for immediate shipment overseas-I got on my way. In the interim the war was ended and I am out where It does not seem It will be too easy to get transportation home In a liurrj-. However, my heart Is still set on spend­ing Cliristmas in my own home. Let us hope so. After three years of this life, I am ready to start crying uncle. 
"Regretted verj- much that you and I did not get to see each other In person. Had a wonderful evening with John fVederick at the Washington Statler. 
"The August 'Alumnus' reached me today. Though it Is a couple of months late, I have read it from cover to cover. Don't think I have ever missed one in the seventeen years since graduation." 
Gas Grams of LaCrosse. Wis., was here for the Dartmouth game with lit. Jim Bmd>\ '29, and his wife; the Brady's were In from Colum­bus, O-
Betuzning on the transport S. S. Marino DeviL in mid-Atlantic in Septembor 1945. were, left to right Father Joe Barry* CS.CM '29, Armr chaplain. Lt. Bob Lo Mense, '43, t t Paul Bice, USNR, '39, and Lt Don Ikfihan, '31. 
MAJOR JOSEPH F. Mc^iAMARA, 13i4 1929 >'. Court Hoa«e Rd.. Arlinston, Vs. 

Iktbcr Joe Barry, C.S.C., was an Interest­ing and welcome visitor in October, with his tales of 511 days of combat. Father, a captain with the 43th division. 157th regiment, went overseas in early June of 1943 and marched through Sicily, Salerno. Anzio. Southern France to Germany, and on his chest there are six battle stars enhanced with tlie Bronze Star and the Silver Star. He says that Notre Dame boys griped about Army training discipline (as they griped about training and discipline at Notre Dame) but appreciated it later In combat. 
It was announced through a communique from the National Capital Housing Authority in Washington that Beniie IjoshbooKh lias been appointed deputy in charge of operations. Under his super^-ision are the Technical Office which designs new developments, the Tenant and Com­munity Relations Office which determines the eligibility of applicants for low-rent and for war housing, the Management Offices which operate the properties managed by XCHA, and the Central Maintenance Office. - Bernie had been with the National Public Housing Con­ference in Washington. 
Honorably discharged from the Navy, Fran­k s Jones returned to the law firm of Jones, Obenchain & Botler in South Bend. He had been on leave of absence from, the firm since January, 19-1-I, when he entered the service. He was connected with the public relations office of the naval hospital at Great Lakes, 111. 
The following is from Georce Bcmatiffam, Calumet Btdg.. Miami, executive director of the Florida, division of the National War fund: 
"Had lunch yesterday with I-t, David Fields and Lt. Tom Mahon, *28. both in Navy and stationed here. Tom plans to make Miami his future abode. Dave Is going bacic to Wash­ington (points permitting). It was at this luncheon that I promised this letter—so I only get one-third of the credit. 
"The writer is happy to report one son, five, and two daughters, three and 15 months. You might send prospective list to St. Slary's." 
George is eager to reestablish a Notre Dame Club In Florida. Prospective members are In­vited to get in touch with him since his wo'rk takes him all over the state. 
lO^ n >>^^UU>U> £. DUKE, 403e N. Bmad 
• T^ W St., Phiiadelpliia, Pta. 
From Harold Dnke: 

I«« McAloon finally came through with the doings up Rhode Island way with the follow­ing: "I have three sons and two daughters. all good Rhode Island reds and potential stu­dents for Notre Dame and St. Marj-'s. Still at work with my father in the funeral business. which seems to agree with me as I gain an additional 10 pounds each and every year. I am also connected with the Racing Adminis­tration in the state of Rhode Island, serving as one of the Judges at Fascoag track and as an inspector at Narragansett track. 
"Jaha Browa^ '31, who was In our class and hails from Central Falls, is now stationed in Washington where he is carrying on his archi­tectural abilities for the government. Ci«ne Mmkomey writes now and then from James­town, N. Y. He has a four-year old daughter and a one-year old son and, according to Gene, they are quite a pair of youngsters. 
"Last fall I talked to Howfe Smith who Is doing quite a Job of coaching at Pelham, N. Y. Every Christmas I receive a card from Loais HtMgtr, Bedford. Ind.. and he usually keeps me posted on the doings of Ooale D<inoTan. Talked to Baelqr O'Cannor some time back ivhile he was in Providence awaiting a Liberty Ship to which he was assigned." 
Thanks, Mac, but please don't wait so long to write again. 
Ed Sweener wrote recently that he had 

abandoned the army uniform and gone back to Utica and ' was again engaged ia the accounting business, this time with the govern­ment. This leaves yours truly the lone Thirty in the city of Brotherly Love. 
The annual Rally preceding the Army game in Xew York always brings out a large num­ber of Thirties, and this year was no excep­tion. First to be met was fVank Kersjes who. like your scribe, was engaged, in. getting one of those little pasteboards so necessary for entry. Suffice to say. with Frank-working on the problem we both got in. Chuck Rohr and Lou Stettler, perennial attendants to the Rally, were met next and both promised to let us hear from tliem through this column soon. Bud Broeker, with Bethlehem Steel, seemed to be enjoying the proceedings and we made a date for the next time I am in Bethlehem. 
Warren FoKel, former prexy of the New Tork Club, had a ringside table and helped steer me around to lAn y Cronin. I,t. Cmdr. Dick Donofffaae couldn't be missed, what with the size of him and his smile, from clear across the hall and. while I was rushing over to greet Dick, Ed £lI§worth appeared suddenly -to block my way. Ed is just as dapper as ever and, from the extensive travel he does, should make a real newsj- contribution one of these days—at least he promised. 
Chet Ashman and Dick Bloum appeared sud­denly to swell the group of Thirties and. while we were going over the relative appearances of today as compared to ye student days, Georce Winkler showed up as did Jim Rizer, now a captain in the Army. As our readers can well expect, the class of Thirty days were well gone over. Later on Tom Lantry made his yearly showing. But, not to stop with the Rally, the next day who should be standing in the lobby of the Commodore but Clai^noe Kocak, nattily dressed and appearing as though he is doing all right with the world of business. 
Fhm. 3/c Charlie Sforrison^ Cleveland, wrote the first of October that he was on leave and expected to be discharged, having chalked up 31 months overseas duty with the Navy in the Pacific. 
Tim Toomry writes ". -. Since my departure from Xew York, I have been at the so-called 
•home of the atomic bomb.' (Oak Ridge. Tenn.). My company was the insurance carrier for several of the prime contractors and my capa­city was that of insurance claims manager." 
John Nanovic is with the Arthur Kudner advertising agencj* in X. Y. C L,t. Cmdr. Ted Twumey received his Xavy discharge at the Xorman, Okla., naval air base in early Oct., and joined his wife and child in Columbia, 
S. C. 
Lt. Cmdr. Fnuik Corbett, Ft. Wayne, Ind., received his promotion in Boston. He spent 29 months overseas on a transport In the soutli Pacific and has been in service about five years. 
Bill Sherman, founder and first president of the Commerce Forum, spoke to the Forum at Xotre Dame on Oct. 15. Bill lives in Cin­cinnati and works for the Addressograph ilul­tigraph organization, with radio as a sideline. 
 SAU?iDEAS, Saunders Im­1931 JOHX F. 

porting Co., 83 Fruit Produce Ex­changre, Ibneuil Hall Square, Boston. Mass. 

Jack Saunderis as temporary secretary for the class, has had fairly good luck iii his attempts to contact all the old 'Slers. With only a small amount of persuasion, he has received the following self-reports. 
Ray iHsco^—Wrote from the otfices of War Relief Services—^Xational Catholic Welfare Con­ference. Xew Tork. He said that he had our two letters and would give us his available information on alumni members: Ed O'Connor, *32, has been the executive assistant of Ray's organization since it started In . 1943: I.eo Claike, '32, who Is married and has thre.' chil­dren, is living in Atl-^ntlc City. v.IitMi' hi* is the resident P.B.L .'i^^ent; John c^yoidfi, '29, who is working with the Prisoner of War sec­tion of the American Red Cross and who lives in Washington, D. C., is also married and has three children; At Roche, '31. from whom, we heard recently. Is in Xew York carrying on a study In one of the local probation departments in connection with his work as probation examiner for the Xew York State Division of Probation. 
Ray occasionally runs into Frank Wachmnthy '31, who is married and lives In Jackson Heights. Francis is connected with a law firm in Xew York. Rayi also hears occasionally from Frank D'Muhale, who when last heard from, was married and had four children. Frank is engaged In probation work in WiUamantic. Conn. As for Ray himself, he has been director of the Prisoner of War and Displaced Persons work of the War Relief Services since the organization started In 1943. He said both Ed O'Connor and he escaped the plane crash that killed 11 employees In their building. Ed being slightly delayed that morning, and Ray having departed on his vacation the pre­vious evening. 
Lew CKShea—who is with.The Emerson Drug Company of Baltimore City, wrote that if his memory ser\*cd him correctly. Jack Saunders had the title of "Scoop" during the pleasant year of 1931, and so he passed on his fund of Information to class members. He told us that he had the pleasure of visiting with Fran Beaupre and his charming wife In Detroit, where Fran is well established with an out­standing tool and die company. Tom 0*Mcalla» who left school after his sophomore year to study dentistry at Georgetown, lias been in the Xavy for the past couple of years and recently was sent to Pearl Harbor, where he Is now stationed. Jack Saunders Is looking forward to getting together with Lew In Baltimore soon. 
Don Fffun—wrote from the Bureau of Yards and Docks, Xa^-y Department, that the reason he did not respond to the first appeal for news of 'Slers was that he had very little news to report. However, we think he was mistaken, for he passed on to us the following: Jim .O'Brien is now a lieutenant with the Xa\-y— he has been assigned as a ship superintendent in the Xavy Yard at Pearl Harbor for the past 18 months. Val 3Iartin Is In the Army Signal Corps and should be returning from Franca soon, if he has not already done so. Val was married a couple of years ago and is now the father of a year-old youngster. Dan himself is now a civilian engineer with the Bureau of Yards and Docks in Chicago. Said he has not been able to slip away to any football games as yet this year, but claimed that nothing was going to keep him from seeing the Xorth­western game in Evanston. 
Fnuik Rcilly—wrote from Dorchester, Mass.. tliat he is on terminal leave from the Xavy, He has been a lieutenant and did 19 months overseas. He ran into a few X. D. boys in that area, including Lt. Comdr. Re^sie MeNa­mora and Congressman Bob Grant. At the time he wrote, Franjtand his wife were getting ready to move into a Dorchester apartment, and Frank admitted that they were lucky people to have found it. Frank and his brother Jack (X. D. *42) are planning to Join the Uni­versity Club in Boston and will take "the temporary secretary" on at a few games of squash. 
Jolm Weibler—our letter of Sept 10 reached John just before his ship left Manila for Sasebo. Japan, and he said that he sincerely trusts and hopes that he will be able to take In our Fifteenth Reunion. John remarked that regardless of the size of the world, one bumps into X. D. men in all parts, although the last time he saw any one from the- Class of '31, was when Bob Balfe (a lieutenant, the same as John) and he parted ways In Miami Beach. Fia., Bob going to a cruiser, and John to a transport division flag staff. Prior to that. Bob and John saw quite a bit of each other while attending Communications School at Harvard University. Although he declined to relate any of his experiences, John hasn't been back to the States once since he boarded ship, and some of the places he has visited are Pearl Harbor, Enlwetok. Saipan. Guam, Okin­awa. Ulithi. Manila, Subic Bay. LIngayen Golf and. Japan. Right now John says he Is anxious to get back home to "the little woman" and his son. Said he so far has 40 points—4iot enough to permit liim to hang his uniform up in moth balls and don a civilian suit. 
Hofcgr flhwiB wrote that he had our two fer­vent pleas for news, but in ttiat he didn't have any to offer concerning other memt>ers of the 
•class, he had been slow about responding. Hoby is still in the Xavy, now stationed in Norfolk. Va., at the Xaval Aviation Supply Depot. When in Bermuda, he saw a lot of Teas Ashe Tom was as handsome and happy as ever, and tried hard to sell Hoby a bUI of goodd on California. Hoby left there before Tom did, and though he tried to keep In touch with Tom, he hasn't been able to do so. Hoby has enough points for discharge and exi>ects to be released shortly. He' has a new baby boy who he claims Is going to be a slick little quarterback. In that Hoby was wondering about Tom Aslii^s where­abouts, etc.. we are very happy to be able to report the following: 
TOM- ASIIC Jae T ••!!••• really "went to bat" for us in obtalnlntr hews on Tom's where­abouts, and we now know that Tom (Ueut. Thomas R. Ashe, U.S.S. "St. Louis" CL 49. 
F.P.O. San Francisco) wrote Joe from Shanglial on the Whang Foo River. Tom was aboard the "St. Louis" and had been all through the Southern Pacific, making stops principally at the Philippines and at Okinawa, and while In Manila, he visited with Ut. Tnmk Icddy. Just when Tom will be back is uncertain, although he Is hopeful that he will be home and dis­charged by Christmas. 
ilbltcr—^wrote from Toledo that when you think back to June. 1931, "tempus sure fuglts." and many things have happened since those good old days in Walsh and Sorin Halls. After 12 years with Dun & Bradstreet. Inc. and nine years of happy married life, Larry finds himself in Toledo, Ohio, with a family of four boys, aged eight, five and a half, two and a half, and one year, and if he says so himself, they are a healthy gang. Larry told us that Jerry Ball is in the Xavy (formerly with Ohio Oil Company, Findlay) and Larry is anxiously awaiting his return so that he can look Jerry up. Larry was also wondering if any of the Class of '31 are now located in Toledo, so we are going to send him a list of the fellows who are in that vicinity, and maybe they can have a preliminary reunion. Larry also promised to be on hand for the Fifteenth Reunion and la looking forward to renewing some old acquaintances. 
Kea Tohalka—reports from Fond du Lac. Wis., where he has his headquarters for the 13 counties in which—to borrow Ken's vernacu­lar—he "peddles pills to the drug stores, hospi­tals and doctors." Ken had the opportunity to drive down to South Bend over Labor Day, and he claims that our Alma Mater has under­gone quite a change since he last saw it. He went swimming in the lake back of the power plant by the old ice house and found the water as cool and clear as ever. Ken says he felt like an old man among the V-12 Navy men who were then stationed at the school. He promised to be on hand for our Fifteenth Reunion and is looking forward to a get-to­gether with all the fellows. 
Ned Gles—wrote from Seattle. Wash., that our letter made him feel "Oh so old" by mentioning the Fifteenth Reunion, but he will certainly, God willing, be on hand for the occasion. Noel has been having a busy time 
' of It. what with working at Boeing Aircraft Co. during the war years and In his "spare time" operating five "victory busses" from two housing projects to the Boeing factory. Noel and Bofr Flgatt get together occasionally, but he has seen little of other N. D.ers. 
Bote KraJall—now makes his home In Globe, Ariz., is married and lias two children. Be­fore the war- Bob had his own life insurance agency, but has little time to devote to it now. When told that his eyes would keep him out of the Air Corps for which he wished to volun­teer. Bob turned to other patriotic endeavors and was apx>ointed state director "for the War 
The Notre Dome Alumnus 
Manpower Commission. Bob recalled that as 
a coincidence he has now seen the last teams 
play In their last games coached by Rockne, 

. Jones and I^ayden. 
Ray Connors—Our letter chased Ray from Washington to New York, where he is now located with United Air Lines. Since arriving there early last summer, Ray has been too busy to look up many of our classmates, but with the winter season coming on, he hopes" to be able to join the Xew York Club in some of its activities- He has, however, seen Dick Connelly, who is with Young & Rubicam advertising agency and works along lines simi­lar to Ray's own. 
John Knlin—^An Army sergeant in the In­

formation Branch at Staten Island, wrote that he expected to receive his discharge shortly and return to Poughkeepsie to his wife and jewelry business. John is also associated with . the Xew Y'ork State Tax Commission and does free-lance work in the radio game as announcer, narrator, commentator and producer of radio plays. John remarked that he hoped to get news in the next "Alumnus*' on Walt Culiill* lUll Ideally, Frank Holland, Phil Angsten and 
others. 
Phil Konvp—Phil's wife was kind enough to post us on Phil's doings. At the time she wrote us, Phil was on Okinawa, waiting to see whether his ship would be repaired or de­commissioned. Mrs. Konop sent along a news­paper clipping that told us better than any­thing else could what Phil has been doing. The title of the article was, "Terre Haute Nav>- Man Rides Out the Typhoon Which Hit Saipan," and thera followed the storj- of that headline-making typhoon we've all read about, as told by someone who really had to battle it. Phil's comments on the episode were, "Those 36 hours of my life will always be a terrible memory, for truly, the gates of hell were open before us; but a strong little ship and 35 brave men refused to accept the open­ing. They rode the waves, trusting in God to still the waters and in their own strength, until our prayers were answered." We all hope Phil will be with us at our Reunion. 
Bob BaMkcrt'ille—During the war Bob has spent most of his time teaching Radio for the Army, either in Chicago or at Truax Field, Madison, Wis. Bob expected to be discharged soon and return to his former position with" the American Can Co. He assures us that he will really be present at our Fifteenth Get-To get her. 
Charlie Cushwa — wrote from Youngstown, O., where he recently celebrated his fourteenth anniversary with The Commercial Shearing & Stamping Co. of which Cliarlie is vice-presi­dent, secretarj' and assistant treasurer. He is very happily married to Margaret Hall, a former St. Mary's girl, and they have two children. Charlie rarely runs into a classmate, but he extended a cordial invitation to any of the old N. D.ers who may be in the Youngstown vicinity. 
Msrron Hershfleld—reports that he is still in the "old home town" of Goshen, Ind. He sent along an interesting newspaper clipping on Xick^ Bohling- and also relayed tlie sad news on Firaak McGrcal's death. Myron has often wondered what became of the one and only James T. Doyle of the "Windy City," and re­quested that we run an ad in the "Lost and Pound Column." 
Jim Griffin—like Walt Cnhill, Jim is with the Board of Education in Chicago—Jim is co­ordinator of safety. Prom Walt we found out what an excellent job Jim is doing in that capacity; and Jim's letter to us is full of the highest of praise for the work Walt is doing as paymaster, responsible for about lifteen thousand employees. Jim also tells of occa­sionally running into Alderman Nick Bohling-. 
Jim Comeford—is in the Sales Department of the Central Steel & "Wire Co. of Chicago, and tells us that since leaving Notre Dame h» has acquired four dependents—a wife, two boys and a girl. Although Jim was unable to make our Tenth Reunion, he promises to be there for our Fifteenth. 
Jim Galluc^hcr—wrote from overseas. ,He lias had 20 montlis of overseas duty with the Navy, nine in England, and the balance in Africa- In England Jim met several N. D.ers, including Dr. Kcams, Dr. Smith and Joe Pal­mer. In Africa he recognized an olhcer as 
P. G. McGill ('29) of Superior, Wis. Jim's on^y complaint was that Navy life had forced him to miss the last two Army-Xotre Dame games, but he was determined to make this one. He now has enough points for discharge, and is waiting only for transportation. 

liollie Poulin—wrote from South Bond, where he is connected with Studebaker's Automotive. Rollie reports that Jim Renatz is soon to be discharged from the Army; Chet Franckowiak is back in the fur business in Fort Wayne, having been with Studebaker Aviation during the war; and Rollie also sent along the story on the sad death of I>on "Bed** Reynient, and said that he had recently seen l<nke Brandmi —had a swell visit with him. Luke is back with Bendix after Iiaving spent a year in the Army. We don't know how Rollie manages to come up with all this interesting data, but he also told us that he had come across a clip­ping which stated that I-arry "Moon" MnlUns had signed to coach at Santa Clara University as head man. Prior to the war. Buck Sbaw (iC. D. man) was coach there. Larry is married to John BerKUn':» sister, and they have six youngsters. 
Clarence Durbin—received our letter at the Xa\T Department in Washington and decided to give us his two cents* worth. He went to the Pacific in November of '42 with the Sea Bee's and returned in Sopteniber of '44. Saw a lot of father Pat DufTy, '31, and they were both at Emirau in the spring of *44. Has been in Washington since the flrst of this year. Clarence sees Jcrfin J. Brown (his old N. D. roommate) every few days. He expected to le.ive the service within a week and return to his Prevost Ave., Detroit, address. 
3Iunrlce Goodeve—is definitely a booster for Calgary, Alberta. He has for the last 14 years been employed in a local trust company ther.j and is now in the Estates Department.­Maurice is not married yet. and claims that the future is most indefinite in that respect. He wishes that some of his American friends would visit him up there in Alberta and convince themselves that the weather there is not all ice and snow. Had to forego our Tenth Re­union, due to wartime travel restrictions to the U. S., but is certainly going to try to make it in June of "40. 
Jim Rorke—(now Captain James H. Rorke, 01166169, Det. E5, Co. D. 2nd MG Regt., A. 
P.O. 758, cjo Postmaster Xew York) has been with the Military Government in Wiesbaden, Germany, ever since the invasion, making the long trek across northern France into Germany. Jim says his work is interesting and absorbing, and since he must endure exile, life Is not unpleasant in that charming town, world-famed for its health spa and delightful homes. Jim's duties arc intimately concwned with problems of supply, notably clothing, gasoline, coal and building materials. Although he can't count on it, Jim hopes to be witli us in June. 
Joe Deeb—is United States Attorney for the We.nern District of Michigan, Grand Rapids. Joe wrote that he expected to make the Dart­mouth game and might be able to get Bob >Iaft!«ey over from Detroit. 
Maurice Recan—is a captain in the Medical Corps, and our letter reached him at the Sioux City Army Air Base. He has covered a lot of territory* in the last three years, and though he says he has met thousands of people, be has seen nobody from the Class of '31. Mau­rice left his medical practice in September of '42 to enlist. He has been at Pendleton, Ore. —the Flight Surgeons School at Randolph Field—Santa Ana, Calif.—Spokane, Wash.,— Peterson Field, Colo.—and Pyote, Texas (which he says is a gasoline stop on U. S. SO). Was base flight surgeon there before going to Sioux City to join a B-29 overseas group. V-J Day changed those plans, and he is now uncertain as to what he'll do, although he figures be has a good chance of being in the Army of Occupation, since he never married and so hasn't many discharge points. Like all the 
H. D's, Maurice Is anxious to get home and back into private practice, and we surely do hope he'll be able to get together with us at the Reunion. 

Jerry Crowley—answered our letter from South Bend, where he is with the O'Brien Varnish Company. He passed on to us the information that, an ex-classmate of ours, Deon Satton, is now living In Paris—at the Hotel Astor, Rue D'Astorg. 
Jim McQnaid—has gotten the upper hand over an unfortunate accident that several years ago forced him to give up his teaching and coach­ing. He now manages a unique news service in Vincennes. Ind., where he and his wife, Marie, make their home. Jim wrote that he and his wife enjoyed a four-day visit to South Bend last summer, and he spent a lot of time on the campus and meeting all his old friends. Jim Is keeping June of '46 open for the big get-together. 
Mike Teders—wrote tliat our letter caught up with him at the Ulithi Islands In the South Pacific, where his ship, S-S. "Harvard Victory," has been since V-J Day awaiting orders. He has been in Armed Guard duty for three years and has been in all the theatres of the war. Right now he is anxiously awaiting orders to start home to the States. 
EMH Brieg:er—Tex, though an attorney-at­law In Pittsburgh, still favors Texas. He wrote that he went there last August to visit his folks, and ran into I^ouis Psencik and Bill Berninf (both '32). Reporting on his fellow 'Slers. Tex s:iid Bill Mairoi^ull is still in the restaurant business In Plttsburgli. and Smoky €k>yne Is still in the insurance business there. Tex also sees Dick O'Donnell, who has recently been in "Washington helping to promote a fund for Georgetown University. 
Ttmhk. IHttoe—-is an attorney for the U. S. Department of Labor in Cleveland. He was married in 1938 and at present is the very proud father of two boys and one girl. Frank was a big help in forwarding news on fellow '31ers, and he reported the following^ ••D€»lly" Gaimon is one of Cleveland's leading physicians: Al Grisanti is a mcmbei: of tlie Cleveland Coun­cil and handling himself there with great skill and to the general satisfaction of his voting public; tarry Krai Is a native Clevclander; Joe Gavin Is a successful coach In a local high school league and his Holy Name team in­variably enjoys a successful season. Tom Reed was in the claims department of an adjust­ment company in Soutli Bend; Bill Doian was sales manager for a large milling company in St Louis; and Joe Danne. of South Bend, was an officer with the Pacific Fleet, the last time Frank saw them. 
IVank also says tliat he sees Joe Deeb, who is the same jovial character we knew in school; Cliarlie Mlltnrr is an attorney in Cadillac, Mich., and does special work for Joe Deeb from time to time; Pat Cook Is with the F.B.I, and stationed at Benton Harbor; Bill Desenberg is located In Buchanan, Mich., and has acquireil both a family and a successful law practice. Like all of us. Frank hopes that hereafter the "Alumnus" will contain news of the many fellows of whom he thinks often, but from whom he has not heard for a lung while. 
Dave Rosk—has been with the Board of Education in Chicago since 1938 and at present is assigned at Austin High School there. Dave is coach of the junior basketball team and is also on the football coaching staff, so we imagine he must be kept more than busy. 
Ha^kHI Askew—write." that, though he is still a Southwesterner at heart, and has spent most of his time since graduation in Texas and Oklahoma, the Navy believes change Is good for everj'one and has kept him in the North and East since 1943. He is a lieutenant with the Naval Air Technical Training Center in Chicago. The Navy has kept Haskell so bu.sy that he has been uiiabl? to get away for a visit to Notre Dame or to see his old room­mate, Joe Meitilrr, at Danville. 
Bob Balfe—Our letter to him in care of the "Post-TimoB" West Palm Beach, Fla., was acknowledged by his office staff, with the fjc­planation that Bob is still a lieutenant in the Navy, although he may be released soon. 
Walter DeBaene—now a tax consultant in Rochester, Mich., reports that he has had \-isits with Sid Ciane (ex. '31) and Jim SolIiTan ('30). Walt has not seen or heard from Bob Ncydon, Fmn or Rnss Beanpre in a heck of a lone time, but blames only himself, as he admits he has been rather negligent in attending the 
, Detroit Club moetings. Walt Is looking for­ward to returning to "the Only School" next June. 
Art Kane—informs us that after spending eight years in Shreveport, La., as advertising manager of an electric utility company, he sud­denly jumped up, shook out the burrs and headed back home where he went into the furniture and undertaking business in Baxter Springs, Kans. Which, says Art, should be awfully good if there was any merchandise available. Art says that he drives an ambu­lance and directs funerals, and his seven-year­old daughter handles public relations for the firm. Art says that he is living so far from "the base of operations," as far as Notre Dame Is concerned, keeps him from coming in con­tact with many of the alumni. 
Bart 0*Shea—writes from Ilion, N. T., wliere he is with the U. S. Internal Revenue, and is still single. Bart recalls that at our Tenth Reunion At Giisantl uncovered nine bachelors, and Bart is wondering If the other eight are still holding out. 
Bob Sosenheimer—Bob's report was really on the cheerful side. After 26 months with Troop Carrier Command, he had just arrived home with an honorable discharge. His celebration was a double one, for the date of his dis­charge was also the date of his fifth wedding anniversary, and Bob Is mighty happy at being back In Fort Wayne with his wife and three­year-old daughter and five-months-old son. He has resumed his old position with the Mer­chants Supply Co. in Fort Wayne. 
Walt Ridley—Our letter addressed to Walt in Philadelphia finally caught up with him in Oreland, Pa., and he claims it started him thinking back to Sorln Hall and about "King" Farle3', Jim Murray. Jack Iluiphes, Bill Fla-haven. Blck Lacy and a hundred other fellows who all made life worth living. Walt is married and has an IS-months-oId daughter. He is in the construction business In Philadelphia, and says his firm is just getting back into stride building churclies. schools, etc, Walt reports that he has recently seen Bishop 0*Hara (whom Walt claims Is still the grand guy he was in Sorin)—^Dan Halpin (at a party at Dr. £d Lyons' home)— Bill Cooney (back in Phila­delphia after spending some time in Baltimore) —and Walt Pliillip (just returned from the Pacific and obtaining his Navy discharge as a full lieutenant). Walt has also heard from John Durscliel, whom he says is married and has a two-year-old son. 
Dick Giroax—sent along a line to acknowl­edge our letter and Inform us of liis new address. Dick has been discharged from the Army and now makes his home at 2800 Wood­ley Road, N. W., Washington, D. C. Though Dick's plans are indefinite so far, he expects to be in Washington for some time, and hopes to be in South Bend for our Class Reunion. 
Ben Oakes—formerly a captain In tlie Air Corps, has notified us that he is once more a civilian and has returned to the Transconti­nental & "Western Air, Inc. offices In Kansas City, where Ben is senior staff assistant. 
Bill McCartby—writes from Kansas City, where he is an engineering executive assistant witli the Kansas City Power & Light Company. Claims he spends part of his time making the rates more unintelligible and the rest on vari­ous engineering reports. Bill is still single, and as a reason he offers the explanation that "my chest and hair are both slipping and I have fewer chances each year, so In all probability I will remain a bachelor." 
Ray Collin»—writes from J. J. Collins* Sona, Inc. (Printers), Chicago, advising: us to hold the press for a really hot news item—namely, that Jim Doyle has become engaged to Miss Kay Carmody. Ray also reported that CHI Seaman, father of three girls and a boy, recently bought and remodeled a home In Elmhurst. 111., and that Gerry Desmond, father of four girls, is with the Warner Co.. a whole­sale drug outfit. As an aside, Ray informed us that his own family includes Patricia, 8, and Philip, 6. Ray promises to be on band for the Fifteen-Tear Reunion, but claims that we all surely are getting old. 
Albert Cowles—Is a ^raptain in the Army and presently stationed in iJIanila. His wife was good enough to send this information along to us, together with Al's latest address, which is: Capt. Albert Cowles, Sn. C—0-519820, 27th General Hospital, A.P.O. 238, C/o Postmaster, San Francisco. 
Ilany Kennedy—we tliink our letters did very well to contact Harry, for he has done more than a little travelling since he left schoot He was in Argentina for six years, then in Venezuela and Colombia for four years. He arrived back in the States Oct. 9 and was all set to take in the Army game In New York. When we get Harrj* at the Reunion we'll have plenty of questions to ask lilm anent his ex­tensive travels. 
Harold Tuberty—wrote from the Naval Am­phibious Base in Little Creek. Va,. where he says he has been pretty busy trj'ing to figure a way to get out of the Navy. Though he has been there for IS months and it almost feels like home. Harold admits he is looking for­ward to getting out in January and returning to his law practice in Logansport, Ind. He won a football pool of 550 on the Notre Dame-Illinols game, and was looking forward to watcliing Notre Dame show Army how to run up the score (our score), 
Jim Murphy—wrote from Middletown High Scliool. Middletown. Conn., that aside from the natural tendency to procrastinate, he hasn't much in the way of N. D. news "out there in the sticks," for lie rarely sees any alumnt. Jim has been married for six years and has one son and one daughter. He has been teaching school since 193S and is presently teaching chemistry and also coaching tiie rifle team, although he maintains that he couldn't hit the Rockne Stadium at ten feet. 
Joe Boyland—is back in civvies after a year and a half of, as he says, "guarding the gold at Fort Knox—reducing some of the hills of Kentucky and also myself in the process." Joe has gone back to his old job as special agent for the New Amsterdam Casualty Company in Grand Rapids. Mich., and admits that the old territory looks mighty good again. Says he sees Joe Deeb once in a wliile, and that District .\ttorney Deeb isn't as fierce as the title might have you believe. Joe Boyland informs us that he has three children—a boy and two girls— and he says that IVUher Bourke Motsctt would probably say, "that's a fair start." 
Don MucDnnuld—wrote from Flint, Mich., that at five o'clock on Nov. 3 he still liadn't heard one single report on "Navy-Notre Dame," and he was something more tlian anxious. Don is still managing MacDonald & Company (Fur­niture) in Flint, and he had much interesting news to report on fellow Class of '31ers. For Instance, Don Kild that Clarence <**Takie'*) 
JUST A POSTCABD 

That's all it takes to tell us that 
you are out of the onned forces. 
With your cooperatioxi in this re­
gard, well be able to keep our 
Alumni Office records and our mail­
ing list up-to-date. And the news 
about you ought to be in the "Alum­
nus." 
has been released from the Army after two and a half years of service, and Cherile MiItMer» Cadillac, is now the proud father of four children—three boys and a rirl. Don says his own family closely parallels Charlie Miltner's with a slight rearrangement of order and ages. Don's youngsters are also three boys and a girl. In remarking on oor Reunion, Don said that Jim Ttmnmm (a local attorney and former N. D. baseballer) will be a 20-year man in *46, Don's brother Bok (also an attorney and senator in the state legislature) win be a 10-year man In '46, and Don himself Is looking forward to his Fifteenth Reunion In that year. Don also enclosed a newsjiaper clipping on Steve Botk, which told of Lieut. Roth's receiving the Bronze Star Medal in recognition of his being one of the Armsr's leading criminal Investigators in the Mediter­ranean theatre. Incidentally, at the very end of his letter Don told us he had Just received word of the 6-G Navy score. 
Art MeMaamom—"The Original Thin Man" is still general manager for Donnelly Adver­tising in Boston (Outdoor Advertising and Neon Work in the New England States). Art was married In 1942 to the former Maura SoIllTan and they now have two fine youngstei?—Tom­my. Jr., aged two—and Maura, aged six months. Incidentally, "the temporary secretary" Is the proud Godfather of two-year-old Arthur Thom­as McManmon. Jr. 
Dan Halpin—has kindly agreed to act as chairman of the eastern division for the re­union plans. Dan is with the Radio Corpora­tion of America, and we found out that recently, in recognition of his contribution to the ad­vancement of television, Dan was awarded a plaque by the American Television Society, of which he Is i»ast president. Dan still makes his home in Haddonfield, N. J., is married and the father of four children. He has fine plans for the Reunion—he intends to appoint a chair­man for each state In his territory, and ask his cooperation in arranging to have as many of the boys as possible attend the reunion. Also, he hopes to get up some sort of little survey outline which can be used, indicating some of the things the boya would like to do, people they would like to see, and so forth, during the time they spend at South-Bend. 
Bert Mmlmmej—is another who will help us with the Reunion Flans. Bert has agreed to handle the Southwest Division- He has been in Austin, Texas. (A. J. Maloney Company) since 1943 acting as Agent for the Internation­al Harvester Co.. and he says that to date business has been fair, but due to the many conditions that war has brought about, his operations have been held up considerably. 
Sddie Ky«n—-We are also very grateful to Eddie. He has consented to be our chairman of the Mid-West Division for Reunion plans, and his base of operations will be Chicago. Eddie and I rode down on the train together from Chicago to Cleveland for the Navy game. Eddie and the Mid-West Reunion leaders had a meeting at the Illinois Athletic Club. Chicago, on Oct. 30. 
It's good to hear from all the Notre Dame men who are again becoming accustomed to civvies. Among the *31ers are Ben Onkes, who was here for the Dartmouth game and Is now in Kansas City with the TWA. Ed <yDcn» who received his papers from the Army at Ft. Custer, Mich., and is living in Terre Haute. Ind.; and Dick Giravx of Washington, D. C. 
Koaky is health and phy-ed teacher at Mark Twain Junior High School in Tonkers. 
N. T. 14. Joe Harney completed a five week course in clinical psychology at Mason General Hospital in New York. Four years Ckaitie I<ony has been In the Army and. on Oct. 3. was still over In Italy. Ffttber John Dvpni>> C.S.C>, was awarded the Bronze Star for his service with the Fourth Marine division In the Pacific as chaplain. 
lA. <JK) Art McGee writes. . . . "At present I'm sweating out what I hope Is my last ex­perience In the Navy. -Should be back home in Glens Falls. N- Y.. early in the "new year to 
continue the grooming of Tim (9) and Ned (S) for Notre Dame- Mar>* Elizabeth (G) is a prospect tor the otiier side of the lakes. 
"Have met many Notre Dame men in various parts of the Pacific. Among them was Lt. CVancis Boland, who came aboard our ship to say Mass one Sunday in August. Met Lt. Hank Donalty, '32, in Pearl Harbor, and my old roomie, Lt. Cmdr. Dan Shaughnes«>y, M.C-, *30, at Saipan. A letter from Lt. Jim Uudnlf says he's at Pearl Harbor now. John Wuertz, '42. is a brother division otlicer here aboard the Mclntyre. He wants me to submit his gripe that he hasn't received a copy of the "Alum­nus'* in a year. We have no end of pleasure in our frequent discussions of things at Xotre Dame. 
"Here's to better things in the future. I'm hoping to see many people I know at the 15th year reunion next June." 
Frank Leahj*, as you have read elsewhere, is out of tlie Navy and baclc at Notre Dame as athletic director and head coacli. 
Jack Saunders wig-wags that he'd like to have addresses for the following '31 brethren: Brother .%ustin Arthur, F.S.C., Francis A. Beau­ppc, Austin L. • Boyle, Francis J. Clmmbere, James J. Kearney, John J. O'Connor and Vin­cent G. Sullivan. 
I Q^ ^ ^^- J-^^S K. COLLINS, 1133 Man­
• '^ ^ Chester Ave., Norfolk, Va. 
From Jim Collins: 
The Army weekend rally and game were, as usual, like a small reunion, with a large num­ber of '32 men on hand. It was the first such get-together for many since the start of the war, so the boys really went to work on it and took care of all loose ends in a hurry. 
Tlie rally, among wliose patrons were Gene Connelly, Flo McCartli>- and Lt. Comdr. Bed Jackson, was the first stop, and the first familiar face I saw was that of Dr. Itoy Cnti­zone. A little graver. Roy is otherwise un­changed, even to marital status. He is prac­ticing in Merrill, ilich., and heading the field as the town's leading bachelor. He even talked me into giving him my room for the night, which shows that lie is not slowing down from his old self. 
Tom Magree, happily back from his fine service in the Army, is health education secretarj- for the Passaic County Tuberculosis and Health Ass'n at Paterson, N. J. He said that Tony Conti is home and out of tlie serv­ice after considerable duty in the Pacific with tlie Marines. Tony was on the invasion of Guam and remained there for some months after the capture. 
Smoky C<^-ne was at the Riilly with his lovely wife, as was Jack Jordan. Unfortun­ately, I saw each of them for only a few minutes. 
Lt. Faul O'TooIe is back from sea duty with the Armed Guard, and happily showing Harriet tlie sights again. Paul expects to be stationed at Great Lakes until he is re­leased. 
Gen« Connelly is busily taking care of his two businesses. He said that Herb Giorgio is still in the Army but expects to be Iiome soon. "We had quite a discussion about plans for the 15-year reunion in 19-17. and agreed that we should have a record turnout for that affair. He also promised to keep this column bette*- informed about the men in the New York area, and that will certainly be ap­preciated. 
Stan CKpalski, Neil Hurley, Ben Salvnty and Lt. Jim Wardell were there with a few others from Chicago whom I did not see. Jim has been in the Xa\*j- for over three j-ears and is stationed in the parking division of the Bureau of Ships. 
I heard from Eli Stiaheen (Abraham) that Gabe Moran'ls the father of a fine son, his 
F A John T. Bxger, CS.C^ '33, chaplam of the B. C. A. F. in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. 
first, born in October in Youngstown. Gabe has been transferred from Newfoundland to Orange, Texas, for work in a demobilization center. He hopes to be home for good by Christmas. 
Don Ryan was promoted to lieutenant com­mander recently, and expects his release from the Navy on Nov. 30. He is still indefinite about future plans except that he will be back in the refrigeration business soon. He worked for Carrier Corp. for a number of years be­fore going into the Navy. 
Joe Kenned}- has been released from the Navy and is back in New Haven with the USES. John Peroni has left Norfolk, and I heard he was out of the Xavy although I did not see him just before lie left. 
Ittiby Shean, *31, has been receiving double congratulations recently on the occasions of his first son being born and his being pro­moted to lieutenant commander. His son was born September 19 at the NOB Hospital in Norfolk. 
Lt. Jack nnneran, '33, has been released from the Army after his fine record with the Paratroops. He was accompanied to the rally by Father MeKee. C.S.C., who said that ' AI Se>-niour has a large potato farm in Ma­lone, X. Y., and is doing very well. Father ilcKee was a prisoner of the Japs for three and one-half years and was one of the group rescued by Jack's paratroopers. 
Lt. Charlie Slortison, *3S, has been stationed in Norfolk since returning from two years sea duty, and expects to bo out of the Navj­and back in Richmond by Dec. 1. 
From Kny Geiger, Sept. 25: 

•'Sunday was spent doing the honors of proxy godfathering Robert Eugene Gorman at- his christening. With Bob» a Navy man, on one side and I, an Army representative, you can be sure he got the |64 deLuxe job—and it was that complete with oil rub and salt bath. We arrived at the church a half hour early and Bob explained to the priest that we came early as it raiglit be necessar>- to substitute the lad in the local football game for the last quarter. Jfw Petritz's sister, a WAC Captain, was on hand later to drink his health and I hear Joe will be out here soon to help Bob and I do Frisco. 
"Saturday night in the Patent Leather room of the St. Francis I bumped into Tom Feeley 
The Notre Dame Altimnus 

of our class who had Just gotten in from Hawaii after five years as a civilian architect for the Navy. Hasn't changed a bit and we figured out a way to trap Pete Trolio and Jim Walder into joining us in New York for the Army game. I hope to be out of service about Oct. 25. [Ray was at Notre Dame in mid-November, on his way back lo New Jersey. —Eds.] 
Joe Petritz was public relations ofiicer at St. Mary's Pre-Flight in California, but was ex­pecting a discharge before too long. 
John Conwfi3**s note of Oct. 23 says that ho is stationed in Paris at Rainbow Corner, where he has been American Red Cross field director since February, 1945. And Henr>- Asman an­nounced his return from ser\'ioe in the Army and the re-openlng of his oflice in Louisville. His practice is limited to general surgery and proctologj-. Phil DunlcaiT received his dis­charge in August and has returned to his pro­fession as attorney in Albuquerque, N. M. Sgt. Frank Fmst, Chicago, was discharged from the -Army in September. 
SMI Bontempo has received a promotion to colonel at Wright Field, O., where he Is now chief of the disposal section, which is respons­ible for the wliole AAF disposal program in­cluding the transfer or salvage of all surplus and excess AAF material- Sal is also redis­tribution and salvage ollicer for the entire com­mand. 
Frank Graham is working for the Sinclair Refining Company at Gi-ayslak*?. III., after re­ceiving his discharge. 
Effective Oct. 1, Cloy JOIIIIMIII was appointed general counsel of the fire Insurance comi)anies of the Royal-Liverpool Group, New York City. For most of 10 years Clay had been one of the important legal figures in the Reconstruc­tion Finance Corp., serving as a director and officer of several of that corporation's most important subsidaries. In November, 1941. Clay was appointed special assistant to Emil Schram, president of the New York Stock Exchange, but at the outbreak of the war in December, 1941, he was granted a leave of absence by the Exchange to return to his work on the R.F.C. rubber program. He had been there since then. 
1933 L.T. TIGHE WOODS, 7944 Ellis Ave., Cbii'ns^o, III. 
Ftethrr Juhn T. Bijcrr, C.S.C, station chap­lain with the HCAF In Calsarj-, Alberta, has written a very welcome letter and enclo?ed a snapshot. Father -writes ". . . .Speaking as a chaplain. I can truthfully say tliat I am very pleased to have this opportunity of serving the boys and lielping them in every way po^^sible whether they are in scrapes or stumbling into the •Lonesome Heart Club.' They have done a swell job all over the world and I can praise their 'guts,' using the Rocknean phrase. God bless them! Some have been hit hard, gotten bad breaks, been 'browned off.' fed up and disgruntled, but if they utilized these character forming tests, they have come out better men, a man's man." 
-*'«x Wilson continues as athletic director at Loyola University, Chicago. 
*<ie Buitia will :;oon leave Washington. D. C, after four years with Senator Byrd, to work for the National Association of Manufacturers in the Time-Life Building. X. l". C. 
From It. F. Granser Weil, USXR: 

"Sorry I haven't communicated with you recently, but I have been busy the past 3S months with the Xavy. 
"After 20 months at sea. 13 of them in the South Paciflc, and the past IS months tn Coro­nado, I am returning to Port Huron. Mich., to assist In editing 'The Times Herald," daily newspaper. 
"My home address, after today, will be: 4343 Gratiot avenue. Port Huron." 
From S/Sirt. Jim Gerend, USMC, Pearl Harbor. Nov. 6: 
"I am in my 21st montli at this" camp, which is two miles east of Peart Harbor and six miles west of Honolulu. It is definitely a transient camp, a veritable pool from which personnel are shipped all over the Pacific. . . . lArry Sherman of Los Angeles, of the class of 
•32, was here with us for awhile until he went on to Guam; and Comisikey, of the class of '34, was also a classification man who later went to Pellellu. Presently the only Xotre Dame man that I know of at this camp Is John YonAkor who is playing football with the Fleet Marine Force team. 
"While I • have been out here it lias been wonderful to meet many fellows from Notre Dame through the medium of the local Notre Dame club of Honolulu which meets once a month, presently at Sacred Heart Parish Hall. Some of the class of '33 I have seen are: Jerrr Greer, Xeil Ebert, Don Wise. Seton Staler. Bill Hanifin, Tom Behan. and Jack Kinney. Of the class of '32 there was Paul Bailey, Bob l«e, Frank Bonalty, Charlie HttzelberKCr and Jack Utcher. *34 was represented by Jack Buckley, Stan KensberKer and Ed Cosirruve. Bill Gottsacker and John 0*MalIey were the old stand-by's from tlie class of '36. 
"My brother. Arthur, ex. '37, who is a cap­tain in the Army is now in Korea. In July, 1943, he married Ens. Dovota Zohlen. a Na\-j­nurse. in Holy Name Church, Sheboygan. Wis. My brother. Walter, of the class of '39, married Louise Garavaglia of Detroit in St. John Berch­mans Church, Detroit, in June. 1944. Wally is with the Detroit Ordnance District. My brother, Ray, ex. '35, holds down the fort at Sheboygan. Wis., as a funeral home manager. He is married and has one son." 
I Q^A JOSEPH K. GLENNUN, Jr.. Com-I '^ ^ merchil Solvents Corp., 17 E. 42nd St.. New York City, 17. 
From Joe Glennon; 
The other day i had a pleasant surprise when my roommate Capt. Jack Dorse}' dropped in after two years overseas in the Medical Corps. Jack specializes in plastic surgery and will commence practicing in New York City at an early date. He is married and has four children. 
I met the following at the Notre Dame Rally the night before the Army game: Bill Powell of F.B.I, fame; Cliick Mam, attorney for the Legal Aid Society; Bob Hujches, who is practicing law In Brooklyn; Bill SlcCormick, on his way to Buenos Aires for Sterling Drug; Bob Hamilton* on from Wisconsin; John Roche, from Staten Island; Fntnk McGarrj*, who is at present in Washington; Jack Devine, who announced that his brother Bob will be released from the Army after four years service; A'innie O'Connor, fresh from two years in Kngland; Red Forrest, just back from a trip to Canada; Tom IlarrinKton and Clyde Lewis. 
Tom Dalloii, recently of the Navy, described the royal time given him by Major Ted Gab­reski when he ran into him in India. 
Frank Honerkamp sent tn the following letter: "I have just returned from three years of duty in and near Norfork. The last set of orders moved me from the Naval Aviation Supply Depot hi Norfolk to the Naval Air Sta­tion. New York, which was not hard to take. I need four points and the Navy can't cut that too soon." 
"Georre O'Brien passed through Norfolk. Ho has not changed and was looking for a long stay in the Pacific, which should be cut short since V-J Day came sooner than most people thought. He was on a Navy tanker. Had a letter from Bill Collins and he has just com­pleted a year of duty at Pearl Harbor. He is the first lieutenant for one of the many air fields in that section. Bill has seen quite a few of the boys." 
On the strength of four years in service and 130 points. Bob Halpin, New Haven, Conn., re­ceived his discharge from the Air Corps, where he was a first lieutenant, in August. 1st lA. John Beiflej-, Cleveland, O., Is still with the war department in ordnance. 14. Cmdr, B»b Meyer, Jersey City. N. J., has his discharge. B«»b Ward, postmaster in ChlUicothe, 111., and his wife took In the Illinois game. 
From Capt. Bill McCormick, Oct. 22: 
"Am in the process ot getting discharged from Army at present and expect to be job-hunting ngain In a few days. I am now home enjoying all the comforts missed during four and one-half years of Army life, two of which were spent overseas. My children are now three (Nick) and two <Maureen> and are keeping the old man mighty busy. 
"After going through the combat phases of the war with the 320th Infantry Regiment of tlie 35th division. I went into military govern­ment and served as governor of Coblenz, Bud-Ingen and a few other German municipalities. 
"Excuse me now but I'm going out and try to get some ducats (at least two) for the Army game. Haven't seen Notre Dame play for five years now. but this is It!" 
Itt. Bob C^hlll who seri'ed nearly three j-ears in the Navy-^a year and a half of It in the Pacific—was placed on Inactive duty and re­turned to his duties as Notre Dame's ticket manager for the last part of the football season. He was commissioned in Nov., 1942, and was sent to the Pacific in the late summer of 1943. He returned to this country late last winter, and eventually was assigned to duty at the Glenview, III., Naval Air Station where he vms when he received his discharge. 
Mrs. Ed Kruuse reported via the "South Bend Tribune." that she expects Ed home soon to be discharged from tlie Marines. 
tt. Bemie Witucki has been transferred from the west coast to the Naval Air Station at Ottumwn, la. Lt. Nick I^nkats, assistant pro­fessor of naval science and tactics, is also offi­cer in charge of physical training of the NROTC program at Oregon State College. 
From August von Bf>ecklin: 
"You may be interested In a few of your alumni out here. Joe Manle^*, '29, Is with the Washington Door Co., and is the father of three fine children, miliam J. Fills, class of '35. is my brothor-in-law and Is a captain in the V. S. Army. At the present time he is in Japan with the cccupation forces. He went through the Civil Affairs School at Yale and is doing very well with the Japanese language. 
"I am still with the Washington Manufac­turing Co., and find my time prettj* well oc­cupied. Dickie is about three and one-half years old and I have hopes that some day he will see Notre Dame, unless his mother con­vinces him he sliould go to Creighton to get a medical degree, as she did." 
109 C FR.\>*KLYX C. HOCHREITER, sua 
• y^9 Trea!:are St., New Orteans, I.a. 
Froin lAXvy Zenner, who writes from Dowry Field. Denver, Colo.: 
". . . After leaving Notre Dame I attended the University of Portland for three year.s, ' graduating there in 1939. ily Army career has been in the States only. I became a B-29 gunner and was later grounded because of eye­sight. I taught electricity In the course and later worked on the line as an electrician. At present I am chief projectionist at the post theatre.'* 
John AValter is a chemical engineer with the Univers,il Oil Products, working out of London, England. And Joe Kaley writes that he is no longer in the Marines, where he was a first lieutenant. 
Carl Bchmdt of Itochester, N. Y,, is head of the sales engineering department of Eastman Kodak. 
1936 8t^ Pirflw, N. T. 
From ^M 
The Army pune week-end provided ns with a bit more information than we've had to pass on in some time. Xew Tork was host to a' goodly crowd of '36ers. We ran into sevend men at the Waldorf the nifht before the cam* and many more ih the ever popalar Fenn Bar after the game. 
surprised us by popplns into the ofQce after lietter than two years in Europe. John fought across Africa and then went tbroagh the Sicilian campaign. He was transferred to England in time to catch the bulk of the V bomb sprinklings. At the mo­ment he is on terminal leave and expects to get back into business here In New Tork aft ^ a long rest. 
Amdj MrMslw and his charming bride, the former Helen Newman of Chicago and St. Mary's; were in town on their honeymoon. They spt:at a couple of days with as. Andy was in the army and saw service In France, Holland. Belgium and Germany. Now that he's a civil­ian again, Andy :s back with his old firm of accountants In Providence. R. I. 
Jeny GlUe^le and Sheila were much in evl* dence at the Waldorf. Jerry Is Joining Jehu Balfe's insurance firm when he sheds the uni­form. At the Penn we had a few drinks with Jim Kii^y and his wife, Peggy. Jim has been with the F.B.I. for several years and Is plan­ning to leave the bureau to return to his accounting business. 
Bill Wslsh of Yonkers and his fiancee were at the reunions at Waldorf and the Penn. Bill didn't disclose when the wedding bells will ring out but intimated that it will be In the not too distant future, f^maie Bjines, Mflw TaAlcy, I«e Mmmmmm, Joe WCIM, Itowfa Cnsack and BUI MeTay were in a tight llttte group In the Penn. 
We saw <oia« BHBOBI in our wanderings too. He is looking well and reports things have been going very well for him. since he left N. D. Ens. J«e McDonald and Hary of Providence were in town. Joe had Just re­turned from the West Coast and expected to be out of uniform any day. He planned to go back into business with his dad. 
Milt reipal dropped by our table. Milt is backfield coach at Dartmouth, He still looks as though he could step onto the gridiron and play' a pretty rugged brand of ball. Jlas McDevttt and his wife were In town. Jim Is back in accounting, and reports a charming addition to the household. Another visitor was Jekn KeUy* '38, Alter several years overseas he is sporting a chest full of ribbons and decorations. 
Aide Maiphy and Elaine were in New York some time back. Jack is (or was) surgeon iaboard the Savannah. 
A few weeks ago we received a letter from Tokyo Bay written by George MUtoa. George had had some interesting experiences as skip­per of a small boat in the amphibious forces. 
Buddy Ci<*M— was in Xew York on business but couldn't stay to catch the game. ' Bad was with a radio station in Texas but is now heading up the radio department for an agency in Baton Rouge, La. 
We heard from rouudabout sources that the former keeper of this pillar, Jaha Monm, was heading back to New Tork via the Canal. John was based for some time at Guam. Now^ that Armed Guard crews are being relieved , of duty. John stands a good chance of getting his discharge. 
Toas Dman, Springfield, Mass., Is office mana­ger with the Mack Truck Co. Twmatt Cmmm, 
M. A.. '36. former NCOS acting executive director, has been appointed first execntive director ot the IJOB Angeles County Tonth Committee. The newly organized committee. 
composed of 19 executives of Ixjs Angeles Coun­ty departments dealing witti youth, and the Council of Social Agencies, will study prob­lems affecting the various agencies, w*lth a view of achieving greater coordination of their work. 

MH|. Kd Itieis, Philadelphia, has been -awarded the Bronze Star medal for meritori­
ous service in the quartermaster corps In Eu­
rope. Ed has been in the Army since before 
Pearl Harbor and his wife and two children 
are living temporarily in Evansville, Ind. Bro­
ther Bob Tbcis, ex. '46, was recently awarded 
the Bronze Star and the Air Medal for meri­
torious ser\-ice in the Pacific theater. 
From Manila way back in August Clark Fisher wrote: 
". . .We received the wonderful news last night that Japan is willing to capituate and we all thank Almighty God that the end is now in sight. My present job is editor of this corps' newspaper and naturally I put in a verj- busj' night of it, as you can imagine. Manila simply went Avild. It means the end of disease, fighting, and probably tlie worst thing of all—separation from our loved ones. . . . "We've come ail the way up, starting in Xew Guinea then the Xetlierland's East Indies operation where w^e saw some of Japan's air force and then on up here to the PItilippincs. It's been a long haul, almost IS months over­seas and three years in the Army for me." 
Naval \Jt. Bill Darcy sent in a note on Sept. 3, with his generous contribution: 
". . . Ever since the Japs finally came to their senses and surrendered, I've been living in a dream and envisioning myself back in life as a civilian. It almost seems too wonder­ful to be true to think that I'll soon be re­united with my family. AViihout taking into account points for sea duty, I'm still a little shy of the points necessarj- for discharge, but I'm in hopes tliat by the time we complete this voyage, the Navj' wil see fit to part com­pany with my services." 
And Bill Walsh writes: 
"I received a pamphlet. 'What is a Domin­ican* from Jim Comnui, '37, yesterday and it had his picture in the habit of the order. As you probably know he is Brother Raphael and is nearing ordination at the Dominican House of Studies, River Forest, III. Ed Owens Is a lieutenant, junior grade, in the Xavy and was attached to the 10th Army on Okinawa." 
Bill GillcsiMe has received his discharge and can be reached in Long Beach, X. T. 
Completlng nearly five years of active military service. 1st lA, Joe Schmidt of X. T. C, was returned to inactive duty status and resumed his former position as advertising salesman for the "Xew York Sun." 
Capt. Fat. Fislier wcote on Oct. 4, that his brother Jack^ '40, was on his way home from, the Philippines and that brother Paul, *43, had just arrived home from the ETC on a 45-day furlough. Later, all three were enjoying the Army Rally in X. Y. C, on Xov. 9. Pat, as you will read elsewhere, in this issue, is the very proud father of P. J., Jr., born Sept. 21. 
«Q^^ TtLAXR J. REHLLX, MacNair-Dor­
• '^ ' land Co, 254 W. 31st St., Xew York City. 
From Ftrank Reilly: 
This is written the day after the Army game. I mention that because in his letter to me from Leyte Gulf, P. I., JA, Joe Dmecker, USNK, *37, asked me to do some "mighty strong praying and rooting for us (X. D.)" in the Army game, and I know he'll think I've let him down. Joe's letter is datelined U.S.S. LCI (L) 10S4. c/o FPO, San Francisco, Sept. 
29. He says: 
"Noted in your last bit of gossip that Walt Nienaber is out in this area also, but It doesn't say where. "Wonder if you could put me wise. Hope to be going hack in the verj- near future—don't we all? but may be able to get together before we depart. Have run across quite a few boys from school out here. fVed Carideo is skipper on LSM 461 and was here about a month ago. Spent a day together. Barney Enrlisfa, ^'35. also spent a couple of days aboard. He is on an LCS. The one gentleman whom we all remember. Chaplain Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., is on APA 119 and has been in three or four times since I have been here. (He) has been able to spend a day or so aboard each time and (we) have had a great deal of pleasure talking about the times he used to spend keeping us on the straight and narrow." 
Cltarlie Boyle, '35, is also in the same APA squadron and is on Commodore McGovem's staff. Charlie has been In about seven or eight invasions, if not more. (He) received the Silver Star at Attn. J€»e McXally, '37, U out here and is on the ammunition ship—^AE 15—^U-S.S. Vesuvius—a good name for an ammunition ship. (We) get together a couple of days a week. Larrj- Danbom, '37. got out here and two weeks later was transferred to a carrier which returned to the States—some fellows have all the luck. 
"Spent a few days in Manila. Tried to locate 3Iike Brias and a few others but It seemed that they were on a sugar plantation 80 miles south of Manila. Understand lA. Comdr. Jolw­ny Iffoban is in Manila, but didn't know it at the time I was there. If you write to Joe Quinn extend my congratulations to .him on the commission. The last time I saw Joe was In Casablanca In Februarj* 1943, He was No. 1 radar operator on a destroyer escort. Re­ceived a letter from Pat Carey and he informs me that he, Johnny O'Connor and Bob LAOchery are sweating it out In Ulithl Atoll together. 
I'll appreciate hearing from you' on "Walt's address. If you have it, and any other news you may have. It sure means a lot out here —swell place to go slowly nuts. [How about it '37ers, let's all try to write to Joe?3— 
F. J. R. 
Speaking of the game, a number of the '37 boys were in town for the game and/or Re­union and Rally. Among those reported at the rally were: BUI McNally, of the Army and Capt. £ d Hoyt, now on terminal leave from the Army. Ed, I understand, is a neighbor of mine here In Parkchester In the Bronx, so naturally I look forward to seeing him. Bill Fnllon, also on terminal leave from the Army. and Hairy Fierce, who is living in New Rochelle, were at the rally, as were Mr. and 2Irs. Don Hannjng. Don and his .wife were prisoners of the Japs for three years and were rescued from the Japs at the prison camp at Santo Tomas University in Manila the day be­fore the Japs were set to execute them, as I get tlie stor>-. Ed Neaher, of the F.B.I, and Mrs. Xeaher; Father Jf>e Eng^Iisb, M.M.; Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Gillespie; 3fike Scally, of the Army, and Bob THIke of White Motor Co. were also among *37 people reported present and accounted for at the rally. 
Coming back from Mass the other Sunday morning I met Marie Lonergan, who. as I've mentioned, is a neighbor of mine here in Park­chester. He is back in civilian clothes after serving with the 'Sa.vy. Mark has gone back to his old job with the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. 
KNGINEERS NEEDED 
VHIIiam J. O'Sullivan. '37, an employee at the National Advisory Committee f<Hr .\cronantics, tautKley Field, Va., has In­formed ns that the Laboratory has Im­mediate need for aeronautical, mecliani­cal, electrical, civil, radio and other enj^neei^ for aeronautical research. Bro­chures ritingr a description of the woric of the NAC.\ are on file in the **Alnm­nns" oflBce. For foHher details, eontaet Mr. T. Meltin Butler, Personnel Oflloer of the lAboratory. 
IVmidc ''Pinky*' Carroll, an Army captain, Is still at it. now serving at Fort Riley in Kansas, which makes it possible for him to commute almost daily'back and forth between the fort and his in-laws. At SchwaHs' people, with whom Frank and the family are living at Salina, Kans. I talked to Frank's father the other day and he told me that two of Frank's other brothers are now out of service. He doesn't know when Frank will be out. 
Ed Hackett, of '37. Milwaukee and the Army, was in New* York briefly recently, but confined his visiting of some of our classmates to tele­phone calls, I believe. 
I finally caught up with my predecessor on this Job. FMtl Foley, who is now out of the Office of War Information and is on the foreign staff of the Associated Press. Paul is working here in New York and living in nearby Harts-dale. 
One of my pleasantest evenings In a long time was spent recently with my old X. D. roommate. Jack Uoriey. Jack and I hadn't seen each other since around Army game in 1937 and so we had a lot to get caught up on. Jack looks much the same. 
On Sept. 1, he took a position with the advertising department of General Electric Co.. In Schenectady. Previous to that. Jack was a civilian employee at Sampson Naval Train­ing Station for about three and a half years. He is married and expects to make his home in Schenectady. Jack corresponded for a while with both Dick Riley and At Bride. However, he hasn't heard from Dick for some time, and Al is overseas, or was the last time Jack had heard. Jack thought he was going to be In Youngstown within a week or so after I saw him and was going to make a special point of looking up Dick Riley, about whom many wonder but few have heard. Dick was reportedly the city editor of the Youngstown "Vindicator." the last Jack had heard. 
The mail during the month was unusually good what with two letters and a postal card from Jerry Gillespie who was taking a short vacation with his wife at Split Rock Lodge, White Haven, elevation 2000 feet. Pa. 
The final piece of mall for the month was an unusual letter from I-t. (jg) William P. McCarthy, VSNB, otherwise known as "Boots," who was ser\*ing somewhere in China. Although the war had been over for about a week at the time Mac wrote, Aug. 23. he could not divulge his precise location in China. Mac, as you know. Is an artist and had designed his own verj- decorative letter head with his name, some Chinese s>*mbols, drawings of a Chinese idol and a young Chinese mother nursing a baby, and a very unmistakable por­trait of himself. Here Is his letter: 
"The April issue of the Notre Dame 'Alum­nus' just reached me a few days ago, and in my looking through this and previous issues, I have not noticed any news about N. D. men in China. I have been here in this strange and fascinating country for just about a year, and In all this time have come across only a few 
N. D. men. At one place where I was for a couple of months, I met Ensicn Gillespie, class of '34, later I met Ekis. Joe Keenan, ex. '34. of Chicago. At present, the commanding officer of the area where I now am ... . is JA, Comdr. Robert Halperin, ex. '34, of Chi­cago. 
"My travels in China have taken me from dining with the British ambassador and his wife (where I did an oil painting of their home) ... . to eating rice with coolies along a trail thousands of miles away from the first place mentioned, and in many a month unable to get to Mass. . . . 
"In one N. D. 'Alumnus* Issue there were a few words from my old roommate, Harrison J. Pleree, Jr., from Italy. I was sorry to hear of his brother's death. Did you know that Harry has a little son? I call him 'Tersus,'— not at all sure of the spelling—it's supposed to be Greek for third. My sympathy to the Hniskinc family for the loss of their son. 

Fnuik. Also through the 'Alumnus.* I read where James "Gypo** Nolan, an ensign in the Navy, admits that he is in the Southwest Pacific. 
"I have executed a number of oil paintings in* my free time of various subjects and am hoping to have a one man show when I get home. . . . My wife and I are celebrating our fourth wedding anniversary this month, with only a world between us. We have a cute little daughter, Patricia Jean, aged 2 plus." 
John Cackley was discharged from the Army on July 25 at Paris to accept a position with the American Consulate in Marseille, where he is vice consul. 
Capt. CharlfM Lemons, South Bend, who re­ceived his Army walking papers, is a public accountant and auditor with Hasklns and Sells in Cliicago. And former Lt. Tony Serge is a teacher at the Roanoke public schools in Vir­ginia. 
Capt. Bill Bailey, St. Louis, received the Silver Star Medal for the courage he displayed in rescuing a wounded infantrynian under enemy fire on Luzon. He was overseas more than tliree years as a surgeon. 
I '^Obl e Hall Rd., Baltimore. Md. 
From Hal Williams: 
Within the past few weeks I have received two swell letters that I know you will be interested In. 
The first, from Redman DugKUn who is a vice consul, stationed in the consulate at Dur­ham, Xatal, Union of South Africa. 
"We—my wife and son—came across the Atlantic early in the winter wlien the subs were still going full blast. First we hit Lisbon, then went down the west coast of Africa, via tlic Azores, Maderla, the Canaries, Liberia, Angola and Capetown. But enough of travel­ogues. I learn indirectly from only a few of the boys. Mario Picrone is still practicing law in Muncie. IVanIc Inrwood, when last heard from, was still with the Southern Pacific Railroad. I saw Bemie Feeney often while awaiting my orders In Washington. Also saw Val Deulc and Paul tocher there—they are both in the Navy. Ban t)uinlan is with the Army in the China theatre, doing psychiatric work. 
"Where arc Jack Solon, Jim Burgess, Bud Dark, BUI Cour, Tom Flyhn. Jerry Kane, Tom Bohen, Denny Knmnuel, and all the honorary members of the Sorin Porch Literary and Debating Society ?" 
Redman suggests that his mail be sent cfo FA Mail Room. Department of State, Wash­ington. Says that it comes by courier that way. Much faster. Thanks for the letter, Redman, and tlie best of luck. 
And now a fine letter from Dorothea Lang-ton, wife of Hal. Slie writes, "We have a new fullback for N. D. to keep our twins company. He was born Sept. 25, 1945 at Columbia Hospital in Washington. He weighed S pounds and we called him Robert Dennis. Hal was head coach at Lardon School for Boys here in Bcthestia, Md. This September he received an offer from ilarquette University High School in Milwaukee. I am Joining him there after Thanksgiving and after we are settled you can be sure any N. D. alumni are always welcome." 
Thanks, Dorothea. But watch those generous invitations, several hundred classmates might take you up on It. 
While down at Ft. Meade I bumped into John Duff, '39, who recently returned from overseas — Middle East Theater — where he served for two and one half years In the Counter Intelligence Corps. He's a technical sergeant. He Is being transferred to CIC, Fifth Service Command, where he will sweat out his discharge, due sometime before Christ­mas. 
Also heard down here that Bill XUlcr (*35), formerly in Security Intelligence in Richmond, Va.. graduated from Judge Advocate Gen­eral's School at University of Michigan in May. 1945, as first lieutenant. He's now stationed in Nurenberg, Germany, working on the war trials. 
Under latest point system revision I will not go overseas. Don't know what will hap­pen to me—probably will sweat it out like everyone else in the Army. I've decided to keep my apartment, so you can get in touch with me at 4323 Marble Hall Road, Balti­more. 
From Burnett C. Bauer, 1613 Richards Ave., LaPorte. Ind.: 
John P. Donnell}'*s signature now appears on the football tickets over the title of Busi­ness Manager. It's nice to have a friend In such a weighty position. 
A card from Marcellus "Celly" BaU's beau­tiful blonde wife. Lynette, tells me that Celly is still accounting at Bendix. South Bend. and is in charge of the Accounts Payable department. The Balls have three rugged and handsome sons. 
Bill Armel unexpectedly walked into my oliice in the middle of the factory here the other day, hot on the trail of a paint sale. Bill, who used to sit next to me in classes too numerous to forget. looked well. He has twin four-year old daughters and a year-old baby girl at home In Evanston. HI. Bill said that his old roomy, star footballer and wizard of the accounting classes, Lcn Skocland was also living in Evanston and was chief account­ant (or was it treasurer? hope this prompts a note from Len) of the Scully-Jones Co. of Cliicago. 
I met Len and his motlier at a football game last year. They nad come down to see Bob play, and his mother told me how Xotre Dame got another star named Skogtand playing end. Bob. slie s:iid. had set his heart on going to Xotre Dame and following his big brother Len's footsteps. The war came, however, and he was brokeidicartcd wlien lie had to give up plans of entering X. D. and join the Navy. He had no more tlian joined up when behold, the Xavy ordered him to Xotre Dame for training. 
Bill Armel also mentioned that he had run into Jack Anton in a smalt town In Wisconsin last summer. Jack was on a bank examining trip, was In full physical trim, and still definitely a bachelor. Bill said that 1st lit. Frank O'LaiiKhlin and wife intended to drive down to the Dartmouth game with the Armels. Frank has recently been assigned to Ft. Sheri­dan, north of Chicago. 
Lt. To.in Bohcn. writing from Luzon, said Ills battalion surgeon is Lt. £dnrard MclJiUKh­lin, '40. Tom's outfit—which incidentally was In Germany at the windup—is camped near Batangas cemetery whore he found the grave of his former high school buddy, and my brother-in-law. Major Cletns Schommer, a graduate student at N. D. in 193S-1940. Tom said that the Filipinos are extremely grateful to the Americans for coming to their rescue, and had planted many beautiful shrubs and flowers around the cemetery and took wonder­ful care of it. Tom lacks only 3 points of returning to wife and son and daughter in St. Paul. 
Don Fisher, ye old manager of tennis and lately captain in the 1st Armored Division, dropped In to see me last week at work and last night came out to the house for dinner and talk. Don, who spent four and one half years in khaki, was drafted almost before they pulled the last number out of the fish bowl in Washington. He went through the African and Italian campaigns with the tanks of the 5th Army. A year ago he was sent home to Ft. Knox, Ky., where he was an Instructor, up until his recent discharge. Don wants to know the whereabouts of Art GeHe, JOIID 
35 

TUmm, Balph Pape, and Johmqr Head. So do 
I. How about a letter, yon guys. 
At the Iowa game I ran into Bay ¥••»­stvBtk and charmlnr wife, from Zanesville, O., where Ray has a partnership in a charcoal plant. They had left their two children at home for this. Ray's first- trip back to the campus since before Pearl Harbor. Ray said he had just seen IHek Geil. I tried to find him later, but no luck. Ray would like to hear from or get the address of Tex HaBpli­ries, the motorcycle navigator. 
In the stadium I met FkAher Grtam who said that Al Offimt, his brother, was prayihff oat a discharge at Ft. Dix after three and one half years of G.I-ing. 
My family was very happy to have Geissler* M.A.. *41. wife, and three-year old daughter whom he had never seen before his return from Europe last month, spend the past ­week-end at our home. Gene was overseas three and one half years, mostly' In North Africa. He edited several Army newspapers, one at Dakar called something In French and another at Cairo, Egypt, -called "The Catholic Soldier." He was fortunate to have had an audience with His Holiness. Plus XII, who blessed a rosary and several medals for him while in Rome. Gene says one of the greatest thrills he received was hearing the Victory March played as his group marched away from their final formation. Gene, who was a fellow Apologetics graduate student with me. is going to be an instructor in English at Notre Dame starting this November semester, and is stay­ing with us until he can find a place in South,^ Bend. 
Received a wedding announcement from Philadelphia stating that Mary Ellen McCann would become the bride of jMcph Baciackas, grad. Apologetics student. 1938-1940 at Our Lady of Victory church Nov. 10, 1945. 
A letter from Otto Sekmr happily startled me after several years silence from his precinct. I give you the more choice excerpts from a choice letter (Heading Is 503 Conway Ave.. Narbeth. Pa.). 
"I have just completed a review of the October 'Alumnus* and thought your editing of the news of *38 well tempered, [thanks] not too corny, [ ?] and reflecting the effect of middle age. [!!] Do you realize we have been out of school seven years ? Back In Sorin sub I felt that within seven years I would at least be a governor of a state, and owner of half the diamond mines in Africa. Need­less to say I have fallen at least two notches below the objective. 
"I am still working in Philly for Mr. Hoover, who has undoubtedly lost all track of me. Other agents have come and gone, but here I remain, to combat the hazards of City Halt pigeon-bombing and the sulphuric gases rising from the Delaware River. 
"During my last two years here I have been comforted no end by the presence of fellow-agent. Ed Gnq^aii, formerly of Badin Hall fame, and more recently the scourge of South Philadelphia hoodlums. Ed has shown considerable talent here. Is very firm and persuasive and a- past master of the 'once lightly, please* technique with reticent in­dividuals. 
"Many other N.D. men have passed through the otlice here. Jalm Foley (I don't know the class, possibly '35) has been here some time. Chariie Stine, *41. came in from the New Tork olhce a few weeks ago. Stine and I have agreed (with each other) to attend the next meeting of the Philadelphia club; I have been intending to go to their meetings for three years now but have never made' it. 
"Have you heard anything about Chavfie Beasley lately? [No] A couple of years ago I learned hb was a major in the Marines and performed heroically early in the Pacific War. ... 
"Tour conunents regarding Jae Wdurte were interesting since I haven't heard from him for a long while. 
"Agnes sends her reprards to you and Helene, and the little ones. Our duplication is still singular (Mary Ann). . . ." 
Thanks, Otto, for a very enjoyable letter. By the way. Otto and I courted two St. Mary's teachers together—Otto had the car—who, happy to say. are our above mentioned wives. Otto is famous, aniongst otlier things, as the lad who always had the front seat at "Wash­ington hall. A vicious rumor also has it that he once failed to get a 100 in an accounting 
exam. 
Juliun FlruMints, valedictorian of '39. also grad. apologist. 'SS-Ml. is in the Laboratories of Bacteriology, Xotre Dame. I was his guest at the Iowa game. 
Do you fellows want more news of the class?. . . well, drop a line to Swede (that's me) at lfil3 Uichards Ave., La Porte, Ind-, and. if you don't think it is big enough, let me use my stretcher on it.—Certainly you've all hoard of a news-stretcher? A couple of women on our parly line back home in Good Thunder. Minn., invented it. I think. At least they had one of the, earliest and luirdiest models, and showed me, often, how to use it. 
Tiay Meyer has been designated athletic di­reetor at DePaul Tniversity. Chicago, following the resignation of Tom llaggerty. Ray has been the highly successful basketball coach at DePaul for the past three years. 

Major Ji»hn Scott, USMCK, after whom "Seotty Square" within the Third Marine di­vision base camp on Guam is named, wid resume his duties with the South Bend city schools upon his discharge from the Marines. As the operatior.s oilicer for the Third iMarine divis­ion. Jack planned and made the as.*ault land­ing on Guam with the regiment on July 21, 1944. He was wounded by a Japanese artillery shell on Aug. 6. 1944. and received the Purple Heart. He also was awarded the Bronze Star medal for "meritorious achievement" in the Guam campaign and recommended for the Legion of Merit. And for his services in the Bougainville campaign, he was awarded the comntendatioH ribbon b.v A<l:niral William F, Halsey. 
Gene Smith, Brooklyn, is with the Marine medical corps in Nagasaki. Jajtan. Gene left Camp LeJeune, X. C., on June 5. Prior to tliat he had been in Ireland and England. He wrote of the extensive damage the atomic bomb caused in Nagasaki and gave an interesting description of a solemn high Mass he had at­tended there, with two Polish Fninciscans as celebrant and deacon and a Japanese priest as subdeacon. and with Japanese boys as servers and choir boys. 
Prom Hal Williams (later): 

During the past week I bumped into two Xotre Dame boys at the Counter Intelligence Corps Center at Camp Holabird in Baltimore. The first one is Tom Flynn. *3S. who is here awaiting discharge. Tom served on a CIC team with the 102nd Infantry, covering France. Bel­gium and Holland. Tom made it out to Cleve­land for the Xavy-Xotre Dame game and there bumped into I'at Gorman. '39. who is still in the army, still stationed at Camp Lee. Va. 
Robert J. Sullivan, '37. of Chicago, also is stationed at Holabird. Prior to the present assignment. Bob was stationed in the Sixth Ser\-ice Command as a special agent. He is now asisting the special service orlicer. patching punctured ping pong balls. 
A friend of mine from Baltimore. Charlie Kelly was in Xew York for the Army game. At the Penn Bar he bumped into lA. Al Grimm who reported that in the immediate past he had seen or heard about Xex Ilaggur, Ed Bran­niican. and Ed M'nipe. 
At a movie the other night I sat about 15 rows behind E. Bmdley Bailey, vice-president of the Alumni Association. When the news­reel pictures of the Army-Xotre Dame game were shown there several deep groans emanat­ing from down front. I assume they came from Bailey. 
IQ9 Q VINCENT W. DeCOCRSEY. 13S1 
• ' ^ ' Gewncia. Kansas Cily, Kans. 
From Vinee DeConrsey: 
A verj'-much-in-evidence conscience has been putting the prong to me recently regarding a ver>- long neglected duty, namely getting out this column. Said prong applied at the present moment finds me with no excuse handy—hence, a column. 
Most of the stuff I have on hand, being of war-time vintage is blessedly antiquated. Most of the overseas letters are. I trust, now of memory and the mail from now on will bear stamps. 
Have been getting ready for the past week for a big blow-out to welcome Tom Rcardon, wife, and four little Rcardons back from the wars. Expect him in the middle of November, Tom Iliincins, lately of the Aleutians, and short a few points since he hasn't been married very long, is at Leavenworth, paying the boys off at the separation center there. My brother. Bill DeCoiiT>ey, who was the first to graduate in uniforni. is now home, or was. He is at Wisconsin taking a few refresher courses in applied dairying, something they didn't teach in the air corps. 
But for the letters. From James A. John­son, then j.g. in the Medical Corps, married in June. *43. at the student's chapel, U. of Michigan. On an evacuation LST from Nor­mandy, then Southern France. Missed contact with the Xotre Dame Club of Italy. Back, introduced to daughter and at writing was cooling somo rather warm heels at Portsmouth. 
Once upon a time Tom O'.Malley used to call me up on his way through from Chicago to somewhere else, and I hope to get another call before long. But the last thing was a letter, a long time ago. saying that he had just returned from his personal campaign with the Sth Air Force and was at Ellington Field, Te-xas. for a refresher course. Charlie, his brother, was with the A.T-C. somewhere around Saipan. Bob Carmodj- was with the Med. Ad. at a hospital in England. 

Lately a letter from ex-roommate. Diet Autim, now engaged in hiring men to turn tanks into plows at Oliver in South Bend. Just the other day a nice letter from 3Iauiice ]>ahy, home on leave from his station at Truax Feld. Madison. Wis., where he is a captain. Had to get back to Ohio to see his second (brother Paul Lealij-. "SS, has five). He thought it to be about a month before he was learning the why's and mostly the why-not*s of civilian living again. Hoped to land in some person­nel work after that. 
Xow a few personal words before ringing down the curtain. Bill Dooley and Jim Arm­strong of the Alumni Association, have a grand idea in Alumni job placement and one that can be of great benefit to those who are finding 
BUI OTooIe, '39, greeta the famous CoL Frank Gabresid, '42, at the Strombeig* Cazlsea plant in Bochester, N. Y. (See '39 news.) 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
out that breaking into employment ranks isn't as eas>- as It once was. Out here in Kansas City, I am standing ready to do anything I can to help out. 
Right now Kansas City is in that paradoxical situation of most of the country; not enough help if you're running a place, and no jobs if you're looking for one. But that situation is due for a big change, shortly I trust. So if you think I might do some good, drop a line. The three boys still don't take up all the time in the day. 
Cy Kerns, Saginaw, Mich., received his dis­charge the last of September and Is working as assistant branch secrotao' at the Manu­facturers Life Insurance Co. 
1st I.t. Itay Tille of Mt. Vernon. O., is in the medical corps, stationed at Glennon Gen­eral Hospital, Okmulgee, Okla. lA. (jff) Bill MalKns returned to the states in time for his ship, the destroy^rr U.S.S. John Rodgers, to take part in Xavy celebration In the States. Bill's wife and son, "William. Jr.. are living in New Rochelle, X. Y. 
Fkank Bradley is now a member of the staff of aeronautical engineeriiig at the University, while doing graduate work in mathematics. He recently left the Air Transport Command as a lieutenant colonel. 
Bill Donnelly »s with the Press Associated (radio part of AP) In Indianapolis. 
Mntts Tonelli, who survived the Bataan de.ath march and 42 months in Japanese prison camps, signed a contract to play football with the Chicago Cardinals. He is at home In Chicago. 
JA. DIek McKay, Dubuque, la., was gradu­ated on Sept. 27 from the Army School of Military Neuropsychiatry at Mason General Hospital, Brentwood. N. Y. S/Sjrt. Dick Hiicby is serving as ammunition shipping clerk. Ord­nance Section, Headquarters, In Manila. Over­seas since November, 1943, Dick has seen serv­ice in the Aleutians, Alaska. New Guinea and the Philippines. His brother. 1st Lt. Kenneth, received an honorable discharge from the Army. 

From Bill O'Ttmie, of the Stromberg-Carlson Co., Rochester, X. Y.: 
"Ool. Francis S- Gabreski. who was a fresh­man when I was a senior, was the guest Oct. 29 of Stromberg-Carlson. Gabreskl Hew to Rochester to participate in the Victory- Loan drive. He was asked first to visit Stromberg-Carlson, not in the nature of a pepper-upper so much as in the role of a great war hero congratulating our workers on what they had already done. You see, the company was the first industry in the entire United States to pass its quota in the Victory Loan and the people had reached that goal before Gabreski's visit. 
"Col. Gabreskl, a polished gentleman, made a splendid impression here and I was proud of him and of Xotre Dame. He and I had a grand reunion, though that word is hardly correct as I did not know him on the campus. 
"I am editing the house organ here, serving also as chief photographer. Last week I got the good news that I am to be moved up to sales publicity the first of the year. If you see Bob McAuliffe. one of the best friends I ever had, will you tell liim?" 
C.trr. ROBERT G. SAXFORD. 3»:<4 1940 X. Marj'lund Ave, Milivaukec, Ul«. 
Some more discharpoes: T«l JiMrhems, now a medical stutloiit, Wichita. Kans; Clyde Archer on the editorial start ot the "ParkersburB Sen­tinel." West VirBlnia; Xormun Bonrke, Water­viUe. N. Y.. who dropped In the week-end of the Illinois Bume; Jim Shiely. St. Paul. Minn.: B«n IrfUlffhlia. an undertaker In Ciiicapo. 
Col. Jock Ilrnrbr}- was awarded the Legion ot Merit nicdnl for outstandinB services in the southwest Paclllc area wlille he was command­er of the 3rd Attack Group, famous as the ••Gr:m Reapers." a It-;.", bombardment unit. 
Jock had been decoraied witli tlie pFC with tliree clusters. Silver, Star. DSC, Legion of Merit, Purple Heart and the Air Sledal Avith three clusters. He is now in the United States and was at Notre Dame for at least one of the games this fall. 
Bob Howunl has returned to the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Co.. Wheeling, W. Va. Bob held the rank of captain in the Arm> before his discharge 
"Of all the action I*ve seen, Okinawa was the toughest!" said Ut, (ig) Gerry Flynn of Rochester, N. Y. "We were playing in the Jap's back yard, and it wasn't fun." Gerry continued. He had completed two years of duty as recognition officer, public information olficer and gunneo' control officer aboard the aircra.'t carrier "Enterprise" which returned to the Puget Sound Navy Yard, Bremerton, Wash., for battle damage repairs. 
VInce Gumcbarri visited tlie University late in September. He had an interesting tale to tell of guerrilla warfare in the Philippines. His son, Francis, was l;orn the day Batann fell, April 7. With the invasion of the Japanese, the family piann.^d to escape to the hills but Mrs. Gurucharri. the daughter of Frank Lloyd, form­er University comptroller, was found to be an American citizen and was taken to a concentra­tion camp witli her four week-old son, Vince. having aided the American army, was placed under garrison jurisdiction. After nine months, Mrs. Gurucharri was released to live with her husband and the family continued their heroic work of aiding the guerillas. 
Kor his part in helping to fly wounded from Okinawa under enemy fire, LI. Bill Tucker, of New Rochelle, X. Y., has been awarded the Navy Unit Commendation won by his squadron, VKE-L, the Naval Air Transport Service. Bill liad been overseas 36 months and was sched­uled to return to the U. S. soon for discharge. His wife and two sons are living in New Kochelle. 
G<Hirs:e £ichler has been promoted to major. He is serving witli the quartermaster unit of the Eighth Army forces of occupation in Toka­homa, Japan. George, wliose home !s in South Bend, enlisted in the service in June, 1942, and received his commission at Camp Lee, Va.. in December, 1942. He has seen servica in Austra­lia. New Guinea, the Dutch East Indies, Leyte and Luzon. He practiced law in South Bend prior to his enlistment. 
EMIS. Bemie Swanser of Portland, Ore., took part in the Navy Day celebration aboard the destroyer U. S. John Rodgers which returned to the States from 21 months of action against the Japs. Before entering the Navy, Bernie was an agent for the FBI. 
I^-(JK) Joe Tlie:;infi', stationed at Great Lakes, 111., got in in time to see his alma mater win from Illinois. Ho reports that he will become assistant to Kitty Gommn, now a navy lieutenant on a carrier in the Pacific, wlien the '33 co-captain returns to Washington Uni­versity, St. Louis, i s head coach. 
Rev. Richard I^illon was ordained by Arch­bishop S|>ellnian on I>ec. 1. Dick celebriited Ills first solemn Mass in Holy Family, New Rochelle, N. Y., on Dec. 2. 
' ' T" i Dariinston Kd.. Pitt^bursh, Pa. 
From Jack Patterson (on Oct. 2) who Is back with the "Pittsburgh Press" as assistant pro­motion manager: 
"The Long Voyage Home" has been com­pleted and, except for a technical Tionnection which will last until my terminal leave is ended, I am now out of the army. Released from the military it is now time for nie to get back into the Notre Dame whirl. Prom now on I shall certainly do my I)e5t to keep the 1941 column of the "Alumnus" loaded with information about fellow graduates. 
Of course I have to compete against the columns that have been contributed by my father for the past three years. He baa done quite a job and I will be hard put to keep up the pace he has maintained. 
My last two months overseas brought me into the same outfit as lA. Jack Boyce—an officer In Hq. Co. of the 16th Armd. Division. Jack graduated In '42 and was the first Notre Dame man I was with for any substantia! length of time during all of my stay in the army. My last news of tlie 16th was that it was packing up to move to a staging area— probably at Le Havre—and from there to the States. 
My only other Notre Dame contact since seeing Jack came when I bumped into Hot^ Essick and Mrs. Essick at Indfantown Gap. The Essick's and I were to have dinner to­gether at the Gap but I got mixed up in a physical examination on the evening In ques­tion and couldn't make it. Since I was unable to explain this mishap in person. I liope this written apologj* will suffice. 
Among the letters awaiting my arrival at home were one from Joe Stephen, a '41 Journa­lism major, and Dan Kelley^ whose return ad­dress is the U.S.S. MuHphen out of San Fran­cisco. There was also a wedding announce­ment involving AVIlliam "Bill" Gaxan, Jr. Bill married Miss Errol Jean MacAdam on Sept. 
1. Tlie ceremony was held in Hawaii. 
Joe Stephen was married in 1942 to Frances McHenry, a graduate ot Nebraska University. They have a little daughter which Joe has not seen—being at present on Attu In the Aleutians. Some more facts in Joe's own words 
"I have been on Attu since it was taken and had a small part in that operation. I was attached to a radar unit and spent a dull 20 montiis on a little outpost called Agattu. In June of this year I transferred to my present organization and started to work for Walt Krii«tofr, Ml. It wasn't long before Walt (a captain) and I rounded up a few other fellows who were at school. Tliey were Bill Flatt, *42, John Mrad, '3S. John Murphy. *44. John IWiey and a lellow named Fairlee. The latter two were drafted after their freshman year at school. Our chaplain, I^he r TitMgerald, studied some at Notre Dame." 
Joe heard rumors about Tom Tnieman being in a Denver Hospital recuperating from Injuries received in Italy; tliat Kalph Germ is on Adak; that L,«u Kieser Is in Italy. 
Joe inclosed a group picture of the Attu gang which I am sending along to the "Alum­nus." 
Dan Kelley's letter was dated Aug. 28 but I iiaven't been picking up any letters for well over a month. All my mail had to be re­addressed and sent home. But Dan has filled the letter with facts about a bunch of the '41 class and I'm sure all the information Is still timely. 
Two of Dan's shipmates are N. D, men. One is Joe Murphy, of '35; the other is John Riley, 
•44. Dan has run into a flock of N. D. people and has written all Iiis experiences down better than I could, so I'll let him do the talking— 
"One of my biggest surprises was meeting Bub Cox. '41. In Saipan In March upon our return from Iwo Jima. Bob had been there too, with the PSJl's. Besides being a roomie of mine at N. D., I had stood up for Bob when he was married and /was Godfather by proxy for his son, now nearly ten months old. So wc duly celebrated each event all over again­
"Then in July, again at Saipan. I ran amuck of remnants of the 'Flying Irish" squadron In­cluding Bud I^ongo, '41. and Red Be«Iey, '42. They are both flying with the Navy and other­wise haven't changed a bit. Oh yes, Red sports a mustache. The other boys from the squadron are pretty well disbursed by now. but we talked over Jim Tinny (now married to Katie Ann Schock of the South Bend Schock's), Jaek Lucas, Frank Santos, Bob Sa^^n and all the others that went from our class to the Air Corps. 
**€m9 JehciBT* Ml. la on an ££M and we used to bump Into each other frequently. Cap waa Stores officer and I'm anpply officer, so daara In port found ua acraplag aroond the .beach for anything we could set. 
**Jo» ratti» Ml. Is also on an LSM. Last I saw of bim. he was heading for another ­trip to Okinawa. * Kartjr lacwoMB is repair Officer on a repair ship and did some fine work at Okinawa. 
"I stayed with Sd MHdy, M2. a couple of. nights and Ed is a fine host. He Is flybUT C-I6*s with the SCarlnes coverins Iwo.. Okin­awa, Saipan, Guam. etc. and has just been. made a captain. Ed was aboard ship one day for dinner and we discovered that his wife was formerly with our ship's doctor on duty when she was a navy nurse. More coincidences. 
*'I got together with Walt Doel, Ml. several times while In the Solomons. Walt has been down there two years and Is sure mlshty' anxious to get back. He Is a Marine 1st Uen­tenanC and with an ordnance company. Kasar Foley* a Ml, was also down there. 
-"Wsdt MtiSmmmtm, MS, of Chicago was part of our Marine cargo for Okinawa. IMher^. J*]m B«ike^s ship was tied up near us recently, but not long enough for us to get over for a visit. IMher Pa y in was on one of the ships of our squadron with the Marines at Iwo. Jack McAiUUTe, '39, is now a maior In Coast Arty and went back to good old Syractise after the Philippine and Okinawa campaigns. 
"The rest of the boys from Syracuse are' pretty well scattered with H«wley Ta« SmwM, Ml, holding things down with two children. My cousin. Vmmi KeUy, M2, Is with the Army Air Forces in California at present. Bak McDcHiaiisli, ex. Ml, Is with the Army Signal Corps In Manila. 
"Jim dcMCBs, M3, is on board ship with me. He was a big gun on the 'Scholastic' staff . during N. D. days." 
Dan closes by mentioning that his uncle. ]>o D. Kellcy* '21, is rarin' to go next sum­mer for his 25th and our 5th reunion. I know we're all looking forward to that and I hope that those who are stlU spotted in foreign countries will get home for the big event. 
Now that I'm home again, I hope that some of the fellows who have been out of touch during the war will let me and the rest of the Ml class know how they're faring. 
From Jack FatteraoB (later): 
The smoker before the Pitt game produced some long-awaited reunions. There were so many people from so many classes that. I won't attempt to mention them* all. Ijtm Apone was the first person I ran Into upon arrival. 
A fellow-Plttsburger, Eddie McHacli. has Joined the multitude of ex-servicemen with the little gold button. Ed was overseas with the 2nd Armed Division, a top-notch tank out­fit known as the "Hell-on-Wheels" gang. He came out a captain and wears the Purple Heart with cluster. He looks good—Just about the same as he did In '41. 
Vem Wltkow^ki roared through Pittsburgh too quickly for me to see him. He was on his way to Detroit and expected to be in New York by Army game time. He Is going to return to acting now that he Is out of. the Navy. In our phone conversation I didn't • find out whether he'll do radio work or tread-the boards. He dJd mention that Jack Whito Is'doing radio shows in New Tork—stage name is Jack Sylvester. Jack can "be heard—a com-' mercial — at 11:30 in the morning, Monday through Friday, in "A Woman's Story." 
One tiny fact, gathered on the grapevine. Is that pMd YlgMis is now one of Cleveland's up and coming doctors. I'd like to hear more~ about bIm. 
36 
I see Jack Xontererde, quite often on my daily trip to lunch In town. He just got his discharge and is getting ready to settle down again. 
C^t . Gcorffc Mcaffher, M. C. '36. is stationed at Ft. Sheridan Hospital. III., where he per­formed an operation on a '41 boy, 1st I^t. Bob Stack, of CIe\-eland. who had returned from B-29 ser%"ice in the Pacific. Bob visited the Alumni Oflice on Sept. 2$. 
P*-l. Ed Gmham. Sheppard Field. Tex., re­ceived his new title and inductions papers on July 16, 1945. 
It's a lot of action that 3Iatt Bj-mes saw with the Navy in the Pacific. Matt, a former lieutenant, senior grade, had six Jap planes to his credit and received the DFC three times and the Air Medal eight times. His wife and two little daugliters were mighty proud to welcome him home. Matt is now selling for Brown & Bigelow (calendars, etc) in India­napolis. 
1st Lt. Enin Stcfanik is in Hawaii with the AAF. His mother stopped at tiie Alumni OiRce on Oct. 19 to leave Erwin's generous contribu­tion to the Alumni Fund. 
South Bend's Bob Sweeney calls his air force ser\-ice "post-grad work." He writes that he is again a civilian, as is Fmnk McOroder, East Cleveland. O.; Capt. John Campbell, Humboldt, la.; lA. John Kelley, USSR, South Bond, and Erwin Mooney attending University of Chicago —graduate work. 
1st lA. Paul FuKlia, on an inactive status, was here for the Bartmouth game. He can be reached in Waynesburg, pa. 
Ist O . Joe Kaltenbach of "Wheeling. W. Va., is (or was) in Fletcher General Hospital. Cam­bridge. O. 
LI. Bob Osternuin has been discharged by the Navy after three years* service, most of it with the Pacific fleet, and is now at his home in Betroit. Bob attended the Iowa game. Capt. John Bidiards has been discharged from the Marine Corps and is living with his wife and two children in Virginia. Minn. Mntt MibuUck, South Bend, is home, discharged. 
Annand liopet, is employed by Majestic Badio and Television, St. Charles, 111., as assistant export manager, Geonre Schicwe, '42, is with the same company. Ed I^rkin of Peoria, 111., was promoted to lieutenant on an aircraft car­rier in the Pacific Ed piloted a torpedo bomb­er and won two Air Medals on his first tour of duty against the Japs. 
iSt lA. Fa«d $chiappacasRc, pilot in the AAF. is (or was) in Percy Jones Hospital Annex. Ft. Custer, Mich. 
Hilt Ffepnl, captain of the '40 team, walked into the stadium field on Oct. 13 in the role of an "enemy-'* He is ser\'ing his second year as backfield coach of tbc Bartmouth team, "Which made its first visit here to meet the Notre Bame team. 
From John Aselage^s letter of Oct, 29: 
"Well, "V-J Day all but wound up my job with Cleveland Ordnance, where I had worked for over four years. I had only to clieck final Inventories, and odds and ends after that, and on Sept. 24, I began to work for the Internal Revenue Bureau. I am working In Lima, O., which is a part of the Toledo district." 
Tom Cnrrigran has been promoted to the rank of captain. He Is stationed at the Betroit Regional Ofllce of the ATBC as plant clearance officer. 
Capt. Dick Dora, discliarged. of Vincennes. Ind,, dropped in the Alumni Office on Nov. 16 with tales of 40 months in Africa and France. Dick Is to be married on Bee 26, in Vincennes. 
Gcme Qoinn is now with the Chicago Moulded Products Corp., 1021 N, Kolmar St., Chicago. 
Joe Stephen* '41, sent this pictur* of a Notre Dame group on Attu. Left to right standing, ore Joe himself. Sgt. John Heod. '38. Chaplain (Lt) Fitzgerald and Ens. John Murphy. '44. Below ore Capt Walt Kristoff. '41. John Fahey and Pfc. BiU Piatt. '42. 
I *^ " C;ymniwium. Ft. Sheridan, 111, 
From ScDop Scanlon: 
News about the Class of '42ers seems to be Increasing a bit now that things are slowly but encouragingly reaching normal. Why even Bemie Crinunins is back at his familiar foot­ball ! Bernie Is alternating at right guard for the Green Bay Packers, league. Steve Bac­aru-s continues to zoom in the limelight with the "Washington Redskins. 
From Roselle. N. J., comes this clipping from Mrs. B. P. Wojcik: 
"The meritorius service unit plaque, awarded military personnel of the atomic bomb project, has been presented the four detachments at the project's northwest of Santa Fe. N. M. . . . Individual members of the detachments wear a gold wreath on the right sleeve of their uniforms as evidence of the award. They in­clude Special Engineer detachment—PvL Ber­mird 1*. AVf»jcik." 
"Why, one day I looked at "Life," the Oct. 15 issue, and who was one of the smiling footballers of the current Notre Dame crop but Ed Stelmozek, once of our class. 
On Oct. 29, Arch AVard in his Chicago "Trib­une" column, carried this communique regard­ing "Ens. Ray Ebli ... . Is on duty on the 
U.S.S. Takolma. in the Philippine area. He was on rescue duty during recent typhoons on Okinawa." 
Probably the highest ranking military man of our class is Francis S. Gabrcski, one of the nation's top air aces, who has just been upped to full colonel. 
Steve Jnzwik Is halfback for the Fleet City Naval team. Shoemaker. Calif. Others on the team are: Buddy Young, Charley O'Rourke and Hippity Hopp. AVow, what a backfield! 
Dated Nov. S, and coming from Pearl Harbor, is this communique from TA, (Se) Geor|^ Uhl, a recent promotee: 
"After I finished sub school in New London, Conn., I had a leave, most of which I spent at home in New Washington. O., and in Cin­cinnati visiting my brotlier and sister. I then • went to South Bend by train, stopped by to visit my brother there, and had only a few hours for a short visit at Notre Dame. Soon I flew from Chicago to San Francisco, stayed there about a day. and flew to Honolulu. Since then I liave been stationed at the Sub Base at Pearl Harbor. The first day here I met John Donnelly, my old roomie of Walsh 405. He has been here for some time and is atill 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 
here. He's connected with Submarine Ord­nance. 
I saw Tom TeaF«ey here, but he's now on a sub which has gone back, to the U. S. It looks like I'll be in the Navy at least six months yet and I may even go back to school again." 
Here's a letter, coming directly from Tokyo Bay. and authored by John I.ewifi, I.arry Hlck­ry and Kd 3IanKelsdurf on Sept. S: 
(A) lA, <j|r) John I«wis. VSNR: 
"My first two years in this outfit, as far as duty was concerned, were perfect—stateside in Nashville, Tenn. Hollywood, Fla.. and Sa­vannali, Ga. Was able to get leave to see Notre Dame beat the "Seahawks" in *42. and Northwestern in '43. Did some duty with Lt. Joe Bonne of the class of *31. and ran into him again in July *44 in Pearl Harbor when chasing this ship. Finally caught tlils ship in 
•Frisco and out to Pearl Harbor again. WTiile there met F>Uhcr Buland. Jim Bratz. Mike Kelly, Bud Stenstrom, Bub Raaf and a few others. Jim Brutz was still complaining about someone stealing his slices. Prom there to Ulithl with the III fated carriers 'Franklin' and 'Hancock' and on to the bloody Okinawa cam­paign. Rested up at Leyte and had a meet­ing with Bub Miller of the carrier "Essex/ from Indianapolis. Back out for the 'strikes' at the Japanese homeland and the pleasant reunion with I^any and Ed." 
(B) r.t. Ijirrj- "Red" lEckey, USNR: 
"After 34 months ot Stateside duty in beau­tiful Jacksonville. Fla., I finally received sea-duty orders to the aircraft carrier U.S.S. Ba­taan. During this prolonged Utopia I met many members of *42, plus others. Everybody seemed to train at one time or another in Florida. Last member of '42 was Joe GUles­I^e and Jim Walsh. '43, who left Florida in June. As most of the other news is ancient I shall refrain from mentions of 1942-43-44-45. Enroute to the West Coast I had a small re­union in Chicago with Itill Hickey, B^Ton Kanaley and Jim McNulty—all of *42. Bill Hickciy, now married, is a big steel vendor in South Chicago. Bj'ron Kanaley in the invest­ment business in Chicago, while Jim McNulty was reporting to Great Lakes after two years Pacific duty. 
"In San Francisco I met Pacific returnee. Marine Capt. Joe Flynn and Jerry O'Dowd. law class '42. Plans for a get together next day were spoiled by my sudden departure for Pearl Harbor. The class of '42, beer and all, was well represented by D.E.. skipper IA» Don Hoffan, '42. and JA. (jgr) Wade Noda at P.H. I then left Pearl Harbor and caught my ship by way of Guam, Philippines, etc. First to greet me on board was Lt* Ed Mani^elsdorf, ace fighter pilot with Air Group 49. He has an Impres­sive number of decorations and missions over Japan, still handshaking with Ed and several other friends, when John l^wis, ship's gun­nery oflScer, joined the greeters for a few fast minutes. Ed. John and myself made the trip into Tokyo Bay with Admiral Halsey's Third Fleet, Carrier Group, Task Force 3S. We never got ashore at Tokyo or Yokahoma but we did get an excellent view of Tokyo close-up." 
(C) JA, Ed Manjcelsdorf, USNR: 
"Graduation, cadet training, pre-operational flying and 18 months of instructing bring us up to a year ago. Many of my Notre Dame-tinged incidents have been amply covered by our future Hollywood star, Stephen Gunninc Gralikw and others. 
"Last September (44). Navy Bill Gmdy and I went through FOF training at Daytona Beach, Fla., where w© renewed our friendships with people like D. F. O'Brien, Jack Barrj- and iMrry Hickey. From Daytona we. went to Chi­cago for a cold period of carrier check-outs on the U.S-S. Sable in ice packed Lake Michigan —^word reached us after we left there that we missed seeing Bill Hickey, Walt Kelley, '43, and Stephen Ganninr Grallker, who \vere nil in town around Christmas and New Year's. However. I had a fine pre-Christmas dinner 

with my old roommate. Jack Shcrer, and hl!i wife, Mary Jane. On the west coast Navy BUI and I got split up (first time in two and three and four years of Xaval service). He was as­signed toVBP No. 87, and immediately shipped to Maui. I pulled down a set of orders to VF-49. We were able to see Stephen Gannins Graliker again, on the coast (he turns up every­where generally on the reform platform but still cutting a wide fast and smooth swath in the social fields). Also saw Geoi^e Saxon, who had even managed to get his PB2T crew's trousers pegged. 
"When we went to Oahu in March we were icept busy flying at Kaneolie and I only saw 
•Navy Bill' twice; once on SCauI and once in Oahu when he had come to inquire about put­ting in for the 'Regular' Navy. He ran across Tom Henniican on Maui wlio was then in train­ing for the Okinawa invasion. 
"Air Group 49 was with Task Force 58 and 38 from May 2 up through the occupation of Japan. We saw it all, are officially credited with a lion's shara of damage to the Imperial Air Force and are anxious to get home as soon as we can. 
"Personally, I met Gill Prendeneast, '30, and Dave Caipcnter, '4G, aboard the U.S.S. San Jacinto (our first carrier) and lArry Uickey'and John I«wi8 aboard the U.S.S. Bataan. Hickey, I might mention, has taken over air pilot aboard this ship, Jjcwis Is a gunnerj- officer. The en­closed picture of the three of us was taken in Tokyo Bay. If it turns out O.K., would ap­preciate your reproducing same for a future 'Alumnus.* 'Navy Bill' Grady who splashed a Kamikaze 'Jill* has gone regular Navy. We missed him In Tokyo—he's aboard the TJ.S.S. Ticonderoga. Have been looking for Jim O'Neal and his DE No. 262 ever since we came out last but no luck so far. The St. Louis gang is still intact, thank God. fVank PoUnow and Ed Griescdieck are working in St. Louis and 
J. A, Scherer, when last heard from, was in radio work for the Navy in Chicago. 
"In conclusion. Scoop—the entire class owes you a vote of sincere thanks for the splendid work you've put In each month for our corner in the 'Alumnus.' Each one we've received has been abundant and interesting in its '42 news. Keep it up and while you're resting how about starting on a class address book for the new addresses we're bound to have when we leave the services." 
And now it's time to turn the pages to the latest dope on the Lawyers. '42 version, as written by Mrs. Lora Lashbrook: 
Jim Nea wrote from Australia a few days ago and expected to be sent home very soon. He was looking for a good location. James Lancaster was married recently in Georgia and is living there now. His bride is a resident of Georgia, we understand. The wedding picture in the South Bend papers is proof that Jim is still using verj- good judgment. Jim McGuld­rick, after passing the New Tork bar exams, is making some plans to leave the government service and enter private practice in New York. 
Roc Montecna was In for a visit on the day of the Iowa game. He was making some plans to practice law. He was just out of the Ililnois Bar exams. Jolin Speca wrote a nice letter from Harvard where he is working on his graduate degree in law. He would like to hear from any of his classmates in that area. Bill Ssrring: ought to be getting home about now. The last word was from inside Germany. 
Capt. Al Cholis Is now a civilian. He has been home about a month and his experiences are all the way from North Africa, through Italy, France, and finally into Germany, have not changed him in any way at all. He will practice law as soon as he has had enough vacation. John Verdonk. formerly Capt. Ver­donk, is also a civilian now and is locating in Michigan where his wife and two children have lived during John's military service. He was in for a visit a short time ago. John Ward la practicing law in Chicago, wliere he is a member of the firm In which his father Is a partner. 
On the U. S. S. Batacm in Tokro Boy. on September 5 were three Notre Dcnae men of '42 in this group of six; Left to right, stomding. ore Lt. G. E. A. HoUcmdL It. Ed Mongelsdoif, '42, and Lt J. J. Sex­ton. Below ore IL Larxr *'Bed" JUdtUf, '42, Lt I. A. Gibson and Lt (jg) John Lewis, '42. 
Mer\' Bagan was over for a short visit on registration day, Nov. 5, and is out of uniform also. He has had some offers to practice and will select one of them very soon. Pete Alonii applied to take the last Illnols bar exam but the examiner reports that he did not take it. We are waiting for some news from him now. He is on the S- S. Trade Wind in the Pacific. Lt. Ji>seph Barr, USMC, was discharged on Oct. 31. and is now at home in Wood River, 
111. Joe passed the recent lUnois bar exams and is now ready to settle down and support his wife. Jim Daner was also In for a visit. Jim is ready to practice also and expects to locate in Michigan. 
Joe Lavery was to be admitted to the Con­necticut bar and we assume he is now repre­senting a select clientele In and around Bridge­port. Conn. Air Corps Lt. Graham McGowan is back In school; his discharge from the Army permitted him to enter for the November sem­ester. 
Leo Linck is still in the service. He recently was in ^evr Tork learning the fine art of separating men from the military service but had not yet learned how to separate Leo from his uniform. Later I heard from some of the boys in St. Louis that he was back in the South, stationed in Texas I believe. If he stays in one place long enough for my letters to catch up we ma^- have some news. 
Tim Mnher of Pittsburgh was here for a week-end visit on the occasion of the Iowa game, as the guest of Frof. Faol FenlcHU He was looking verj* fit and apparently enjoying the prosperity of a successful practice. It was Tim's first visit In a long time. Hany Murrajr was on the campus the week of Nov. 12. He is still working for the Board of Education in Chicago. Lt. Bob Sinon, USMC, is expected home by the end of November according to news from his wife. Florence. In Ottawa. III. He has been stationed on Guam for several months. Lt. Bob Miller, USNR, is expected to be discharged from the Navy tomorrow (Nov. 
17) and hopes to get to Notre Dame to start his law study on the 19th by special arrange­ment with the Director of Studies. Bob has been on duty on the carrier Essex. 
Lt. Bub Stewart, U.S.N.A.C.. is now a civiiian and is back in school finishing the worlc for his law degree. He brought his wife and baby daughter In for a visit this week. Major Bob Sallivan, U.S.A.A.F., will be discharged the first week in December. He is in school, however. 
' on terminal leave and as soon as suitable hoos­ins can be found he will be Joined by his wife and little Davey, who are now In Cleveland. Lt. Tbn Temwmej, VAXJU, was here this week showlns the campus to Lt. Tieman of the WAVES, and vice versa. Tom: Is as enersetic as ever and expects a discharge In time to start school In March. He is on a submarine in the PaciQc 
• Lt. tack Lawler, I7.S«N.B,, wrote this week to say he missed the California bar exams which he was scheduled to take on board his ship; the IT.S.S. Cleveland, because the questions arrived too late. He has never told us why he is takins the California examinations, but we expect to hear about It soon from Jack In person. We have heard nothins at all from Tn4 Haaver since t^^e announcement of his wedding. 
BUI 8ygl> T wrote again from India, com­plaining about the lack of mail, and stvins us some hope that he may be hoine by Christmas. He promises to see us as soon as possible after his arrival. 
At Ft. Sheridan, where this writer Is again stationed after a period of schooling. Army style, at Washington and Lee University, Lex­ington, Va.; Lt. FlHUicis J. Otmrntfliam, '38, Is on hand to greet returning army vets at Build­ing 209. Any of you soldiers getting discharged at Ft. Sheridan remember that name. Nope, he's not OHrt. Jhm OTLaagldtat, ex-roomle and currently of the Marine Corps. 
Wearing new master sergeant's stripes is Bill Mnpliy. Last time out. the "Alumnnar* called him a first sergeant—slight error. Horphy says he got to see Baa McNanaim awhile back and tliat the latest word on Jae K«ceat is that he went all the way from Germany to Manila —being on high seas at the time of V-J Day. He still went to the Philippines. 
That brings tis up to date on communica­tions received. More are welcome. 
DON'T Forget, IP IT'S NEWS, WRITE SCOOP. 
Back in early October, 1st Lt. Ji«i Gait wrote from Wakeman Convalescent Hospital. Camp Atterbury, Ind.. that his discharge should come through in three weeks. Bfek li^sie^ a civilian again, is living In Kansas City. Mo. 
Best wishes to Lt. Geae HwlMaihii whose wedding took place last Dec. 30. And to Lt. Jae Bavr who was on campus for the Bllnois game with his lovely bride. 
We noted a column in the "Chicago Tribune" which tells about a painting of four Army aces, including GoL Trmmk Gabrcskl; the ex­hibit, "Paintings of the Army Air Forces" was on display In the Museum of Science in Chicago. 
Eas. Gerry Oross, of the NATS in Oakland, Calif., was on the campus the week-end of the Dartmouth game. 
Also here to see the Dartmouth game was Fkal Neville of Ware, Mass., who received his discharge from service at the beginning of October. Paul was overseas 22 months in the ETTO as an Army correspondent with the First Army in England. France. Belgium and Ger­many. Paul is back with the "South Bend Tribune." 
Faal LilUs visited the campus In the begln­
•
ning of November, following his recent dis­charge as a Navy lieutenant. He served more than two years in the Pacific as commander of a P-T boat, was wounded In action and decorated. Paul is now a sales engineer with Bakelite in N. Y. a 

B.
 J. AagelakOT, E.E. teacher, left the Uni­versity to take up graduate work at Harvard iiv the radiation laboratory. Lt. Toai Qead­bfacht, who was stationed at Navy Yard. Sfore Island, Calif., for two years as assistant estimat­ing and planning superintendant for landing craft, is in Boston studying at the Massachu­setts Institute of Technology for a master's degree In marine engineering and naval archi­tecture. 


Former JA, Wmnk O'Dowd, TJSXR, was award­ed the Bronze Star medal before he received his discharge the last of October. 
tt . Bob BDIIer with the Purple Heart and five battle stars, was on leave from the U-S-S. Essex, aircraft carrier vessel No. 9. The Essex set a new fleet record as being continuously under way the longest of any aircraft carrier in combat operation. It was in operation 79 continuous days in support of the Okinawa campaign. Bob, whose home is in South Bend, is a veteran of 23 months of sea and foreign service duty. 
T/Sfft. Cbarln Batterworth, South Bend, was home after being away more than six years, three of which were spent in Japanese prison camps. After his discharge he plans to study aeronautical engineering at the Boeing avia­tion school, Oakland, Calif. 
T/5 Bob BcAOinont was in Leghorn, Italy, serving with the 6S3rd Quartermaster Base Depot Company of the Fifth Army. 
«Q^ ^ LT. Ur) EDWARD C. BONETET, 17S3 I '" ^ Iroquois Ave., Detroit, Blich. 
From Ed Bone;-: 
A more or less unofllcial group of the class of '43 gathered under the Golden Dome for the week-end of the Dartmouth game. These in­cluded President Jack Tollett, Pete Moritz, Bitea BCdJMglilin, Bob IjeMense, Xony Zacame, Jim Gallaclirr, IVank Haley. Fred Gore, Jade Edwards and Tours TruU*. 
All of us bad lunch, saw the game and had dinner up in Niles together before dragging into the Oliver's Blarney Inn. so forbidden in other days. After the game, though, we strolled down to the Grotto where we all said some prayers and President Tallett lit a candle for those classmates we have lost in the war and another for those who ivere lucky enough to come back. 
Jack Edwards and Jade Tallett were get­ting used to civilian clothes again having Just been dischar^d a week or so before. Edwards had suddenly decided to come down Friday night and had jumped on a westbound train. Toay Zacame was down for the week-end but expected to return soon for Law school. 
CVed Gore was on the way to Great Lakes at the end of his leave. He said there was still no word on when his wife would be able to return from Scotland. Bob I»Iense and IVank Haley were on furlough from the Army, while Jim Gallacber was enjoying some Navy leave. Brian McIJUirhUn is now an MD and was enjoying a little leisure between Intern­ships. 
Between the group of us, we managed to compile the following information about some of the rest of the class. I can't tell who said which about whom as I was taking notes as fast as I could, but med students come first on the list. 
Blatt Bomeo and Balph Onofrio are senior med students at St. Louis University. Pete Kirlcpatrick, BUI Sbeedy and Bill Ford are also there. Balph Cambafil, Bill Terfaeyden and BUI O'Couiell are about to finish up at Jefferson Med at Philadelphia. IJonis Lajole Is doing likewise at Wayne In Detroit and Georve Boberdy's school escapes me at the moment. Jim Ford is Interning at Deaconess Hospital in St. Louis, while Dick 31iller Is an intern at Cook County in Chicago. 
The only new benedicts in the class seem to be Tom «*Diiff^ MiUer and Jim "Bed" Girard. Tom married Ada Montanus. St. Mary's. '43. last June and at present is around Philadelphia. Jim's announceniient arrived a couple of months after his marriage August 25 In Chicago to Dorothy Marie Graf. 
Don Stnicr, who some months ago switched from deck duties to flight training,- was last heard from at Pensacola. l^m Flnacane is still out on the high seas somewhere, believed 
Gezmcmy. won the scene of this meeting 
o i left to right Bob Dunne, '44, Jac^ Den­niston, '45, cmd Bob t e Mense, '43. 
to be on a destroyer escort. Jack I<eahy Is working hard at a job in Port Huron. Mich., while Jim Madigan and Bub Knipeis are work­ing in Chicago. 
Fanl Pfoffer was seen in June shuttling the Fifth Army from Naples to Casablanca as navigator in a Flying Fortress. Now. probably in the States somewhere. Paul Ffsber Is part of the famous Ofhce of Strategic Services. Ld^h SoUlvan Is at Ft. Sheridan, while Tony Girol­ami was last seen months ago at OCS at Ft. Bennlng. Georgia. 
Bill OuToll should still be at Camp Fannin, Texas, and Jock Wiggins, back from among the missing. Is up for discharge at Ft. Bennlng. 
Pick Heiser was seen in September at Hono­lulu, a part of the Na\'y on the road to Japan, while Bob Terrence was already there. Tom Cosgrove is on the flag staff of Comcardiv 27 In the Pacific, while Bill Meyer Is an MP on Okinawa and Jim CahUI was in the 37th di­vision heading home. I^ee Bajrmond's parents were at the game and gave his latest address as Tokahoma in Sth Army H.Q.. with hopes of returning soon. 
Ted Burke's parents would welcome a word from any one who has seen him since July. They have had no word whatsoever of him since that time- I'll be glad to forward im­mediately any word that anyone might have. 
Bob Sweeney was at Great Lakes demobllixa­tion school, as was John O'Malley. John is probably out on the Prisoner of War discharge rule, but Bob Is still helping others get out. Jack 3Iorri9on had been down in Panama, hut got out Oct. 16 at Great Lakes. Tom Conndly was also a student of demobilization methods and will help others get out for awhile. 
f^ank Haley was an Army Air Corps pro­curement Officer In Chicago, but expected to go overseas soon. Tred Gore was heading for demobilization school at Great Lakes and Joe Callahan the same at harvard. Gall fitch was reported heading for Norfolk for duties along the same lines. 
Hal Hunter, the happily married lawyer, is now practicing In New Madrid. Mo. Cliariey Conger Is head of priorities at International Standard Electrics in New Tork. J. T. Baia­maker is part of the cost department at Ana­conda "Wire and Cable in Marion, Ind. 
Jim Gallagher is at present on the U.S.S. Bremerton, Just returned from Rio and other points. BiU Stewart remains at Camp Springs. Md., and BIU Early is a civilian again, having just laid aside his double bars of the Army. Jack Hines was rescued from a German Prison camp In July and is now at Ft. Dlx. He had 18 months as a German guest. Ed Smith Is on AAF terminal leave and Jim Blalier is work­ing in Pittsburgh after leaving the Army. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

BUI DUIon and Gcorve BUttner are in the Pacific, while Ed Holland is executive officer on the LST 540. and Bbirk Fowler is the skip­per of the YMS 299. both in the Pacific Art Keating Just got back from overseas in Octo­ber and remains in the Army. Ed Davis will be out of the Navy soon. Bed Ijonergan is reported back in Chicago, after a summer job out west. 
Fat Grogan is out of the Army and attend­ing law school somewhere in the East. That's about all the Items we managed to collect that week-end. ,A couple of more week-ends like that could fill a couple of columns. 
Ed Hickey* Jim Byrne and I got together, when they were both In town, and talked over old times. Ed was returning to the TJ.S.S. "President Adams" soon and Jim was finish­ing up a leave and heading for Great Lakes for reassignment. 
Looked all over at the Notre Dame-Navy game for some of the class but failed to see any. Did see Bob Osterman and Dan Bradley of a couple of years previous though, plus a good but heartbreaking game-
How about some letters from those we have not ^eard from or about for so long? 
Jack Edwards of Pittsburgh. Pa.. Is out of service and working In Pittsburgh. Jack took in the Dartmouth game. IVed Doutel, Misha­waka, came out of the AAP as of Oct- 12, and I,t. Howard Eahey of the Na\-j* and Scarsdale. 
N. Y.. is on Inactive status. 
Gilbert Gilhooly, a former corporal in the Army, was wounded in the abdomen during action In France. Gil spent nine months in hospitals before he received his discharge. He's now purchasing agent for Vimalert Co. Ltd. of Jersey City. Johnny Morrison has also re­ceived his discharge. 
Set. Bob Towner has been discharged from the Army and is in South Bend on the "Trib­une," awaiting the arrival of his wife, whom he married June 3. 1945. in London. Bob served with the 101st airborne division in the European theater for over two years. Wearer of the Bronze Star medal for meritorious achievement, he also has four battle stars representing Normandy, Ardennes, the Rhine­land and central Europe. He has the Bronze arrowhead, awarded for being with the first wave in the invasion of Normandy. It was In this action that he received leg wounds and was hospitalized two and a half months in England. He was awarded the Purple Heart and rejoined his outfit. 
I«u B^'mkns, attached to the ship's company in the University's V-12 unit, was assisting in coaching the varsity line and in scouting. 
"Wearing eight battle stars for the campaigns from North Africa to Germany via Sicily. Italy, Corsica and France, S/Sgt. Bub Cosgrore, South Bend, returned to the University to continue his studies. Bob served as a crew chief with the 27th fighter group which was attached to the 12th and later the Ninth Army air forces. 
Marine lA. Bob Dove has been signed by the Chicago All-America conference team, to play in 1946. 
1944 PFC. JOHN A. LYNCH, 15724 Urand­ville Rd., Detroit S3, Mich. 
From Johnny Lsrnch: 

While waiting for discharge papers to clear the proper channels we've sorted the mall. Prom out Luzon way, comes a letter from Ijyie Joyce who was still in and out of the jungles as of Sept. 17: 
"I*m now on Luzon—near Clark Field We're fllllng the Sixth Army with new blood for the occupation. Right now, we have about 
6.500 men In our battalion alone and are daily shipping out hundreds. My Inglorious but rather necessarj- task is being the big snort in the Bn. records section. Which means, simply, that 
I. with about 20 assistants, must take care of the 500 records, with hundreds leaving daily and thousands arriving weekly. 
**£d Gashnuui and Hany ¥eates are pre­sumably in Japan. That is. if they are still in the 28th Kept. Bn. That outfit was here for awhile, but I never saw either Eld or Harry during that time. [Yeates, soon to be dis­charged, was at Notre Dame recently. Hia father died a couple of months ago.—Ed.] As you undoubtedly know, Kelly Cook has gone off the end and taken unto himself a bride. Geny Hogae is in Germany with the Frst Armored, which Is scheduled for occupational duty, I presume he's sipping warm beer and quietly going crazy." 
Gene Carney checked in Sept. 30: 
"That was a nice writeup In the August *AIumnus'. You really covered a lot of terri­tory and a lot of fellows. As for myself, since graduation. I've been working for Remington Rand as a cost accountant and auditor* in their Johnson City. N. V., plant. We made Hamil­ton Standard three-bladed propellers It was really very interesting while it lasted—now we're working on terminations. From here I expect to be transferred to New York City and work out of that ofltce as an accountant. 
"Do you suppose you could find out or tell me where to find out the addresses of Ed Gallacher, Iico Borice, Tom Conerty and Dick Kelleher. It's been a long time since I heard from any of them and I guess I just lost track. I expect to get back to school for the Iltlnois game on the 29th, and I intend to see the Army game in New York." 
Two letters out of the Fatherland come from John Bcyerle who is with the medical detach­ment of the G6th armored regiment of the 2nd Armored. The first Is dated Sept, 16, Frankfort, Germany. 
"It's about time that I bent my elbow and contributed a bit of news. In fact, the last time that inspiration struck home was Just about a year ago. At that time I had just made a . . . . visit to Paris and it was a few days prior to my entrance into the 2nd Armored Division. .. . I have five battle stars and three were earned by the sweat of my brow, and I do mean sweat. 
*I have had the darndest luck in my search for familiar faces from school—It's all been bad up to Just recently. A couple of weeks ago I was headed for the French Riviera on a seven day furlough. Our group stopped at Maastrict, Holland, for the night, and whom should I meet at breakfast the next morning but Set* Tomniie Fuormy who used to room across the hall from me on the fourth floor of Lyons. Our meeting was quite accidental. Before breakfast I asked him if I hadn't seen him somewhere in the States. We couldn't settle on any location, so I let the matter drop. During breakfast he asked me what sort of a ring I was wearing, then flashed the Golden Dome on his finger in front of my startled eyes. We spent the entire morning roaming around town and discussing old times. 
"Today I saw my first honest to goodness football game since I left school. Our regi­mental team challenged the 508th Paratroop Infantry to a game and today was the play­off. Well, the SOSth Is coached: by T/Sgt. Donald Armour, '32, and his team displayed all the flash, coordination and scoring ability of a Notre Dame coached team. They breezed over us by a score of 52-7. After the game our team was the guest of the 50Sth and during supper I had the opportunity to talk with Armour. He told me that Jim Bmtx's younger brother is with the 97th General Hospital sta­tioned In Frankfort. Hope to be able to see him one of these days. 
"I was really surprised when I read about old Mox Bogrers being in Austria and Italy. It's the first news I've had of him since he left school. Mox and I roomed together our freshman year in dear old Cavanaugh; also ended up on the fourth floor of Lyons. What 
Sgt and Mrs. Herbert Cloifc en after the Iowa 9oine. (See '44 doM news.) 
ever happened to Bill Martin and the rest of the gang ? Recently heard from £BS* Bob 3Iartlna who by this time has finished his studies In airborne radio at M.T.T. He said that he expected to be shipped out to the Pacific very shortly. The last I heard of Daa Tomcik was that after leaving England he moved back to the States and is now at the Grosse He, Mich., naval station. Would ap­preciate It if you could furnish me with the addresses of Mox Rogers and FVan Brlnfctaa* Like to drop a line to my old Chi buddies." 
John's second letter is from Gelnhausen, Germany, Oct. 30. 
"Wonder If I could ask another favor of you? Would you send Herb Clark's address? I'm sweating out getting home before Christ­mas. But looks as if my 64 points aren't going to carry me to the blessed shores by that time. However, I liope to be back in school very shortly. . . . Had a letter from Bob Martina the other day. He finished at 
M.I.T. in September, and after his furlough re­ported to the Naval Air Station at Gainesville. Ga. He says: *I ran into-Jack O'ConiKll, '44. down here. He is an RT2c and has been in the Nav>* for a year and a half. He is with one of the units that has been waiting for orders for three weelcs.' " 
Another correspondent of ours stationed In Germany Is Jack Xhomton. He Is with the division service company of the 2nd Armorpd. and was at Bad Orb last Oct. 4. Up to that time he and Beyerle apparently hadn't met. 
Here's Jack: 
"I just finished reading the August Issue of the alumni magazine and I felt, since I had run into quite a few of tlie boys. I'd write a line or two. First of all, 'way back in the winter of '44-'45 I had several visits with Jock Doyle, '44. and Jim crewman, *44. Both were working for the First ,Army Press Camp. 
ABE YOU A CnnUAN? 

To memlieia oi the annad iorees: 
when you fmally leave the nnilonn 
behind or are about to do ae, drop 
a card to the AInmni Oifiee so thot 
we eon be sure d your cmzmt 
mailing addresa. The aome card will 
malce an interesting note ice tha 
"Aliimnna." 
and I happened to be on DS witb PRO at tk* time. [For you laymen that mean* detaehad aervice with the public ralatlona oiOca.—J. I^] ­We got tosether quite a few timea orer aome Belfian brew. I Imasine both are In the States now. 
"Later on. aroxmd February, the Sth Armorad (my outfit In comI>at) moved to Holland. Whlla there I met Bah •!—>u(aur, '43. He waa ta charce of a Reat Center for the 3Sth Infantry Division. He also must be in. the Statae br now, it he had the points. Incidentally, I believe Mm JSammtm sot a Purple Heart In tha Boise—the Krauts almost overran the Freaa Camp. Just a couple of weeks back I mat n o DMIC^ '44. and like at Notre Dame, h^a in the band In this Division. 
"I,ast week-end I took a trip down near Munich to see my old cohort, *" > fiafcrr 'It . He's with the »th Inf. now: was with the Mth Division. 'Coke' tells me his old roomie, JI B Plait. Is a tic) on a I^T In the South PaeUe.' Jim's doins fine in the Navy—only thing wrong so far is that he gets seasick! Hy roommate, fcck OsgussB. was a gunner on a B-IT, got wounded over Helnleland. and is now a civilian. Perhaps •Seg' will be sweating out the ^^aT line again soon. [Tfaat'a Just where I met him after the Dartmouth game.—J. 1*3 
"It's very hard to hear that guys Ilka . MeGtaaia. Cmevr, Baitaa and OTUMte are gone, Ijut swell to hear that guys like Mas 
•agCCT. ToMBiir O'Cn—sr, JSidt Hanu and Bar OXouwm all came through O.K. Whatever happened to tm» ttmt and BUI Kwj, BHl Reape and KA Dnrigaa. ^ee XtaiHcr and Jlai Aataa. Jaha Aidnt. Oti* AUea. Mm Bshs^ Vlaee DCTma, and so on and on and on? 
"I expect to leave with this division for the States in November or early December—so per­haps one of- these days I'll be seeing you. Give my 'hello' to everyone you see, and take it easy." 
- Jack has already been sent aome Informa­tion about those numerous men of '44 who^ he mentions, but we'll need volunteers to bring tis up to date on everyone. Now is the tima to write that letter. 
'WUtcy' IVieratt gives his address as 2114 Abington Rd., Cleveland 6, and is currently occupied at tha Dental School of Wastera Re­serve University. He wrote Nov. 8. 
"Meant to write for quite a wlille, but did not get the Inspiration till I read the last copy of the 'Alumnus.' I left Notre Dame In Aag^ 1943, took basic In Barkeley. Texas, and got my B.S. from Notre Dame while down there. Moved to Fitzsimmons General Hospital from there, and went through Dental Tech. school. Happened to be In class with 43cae Caia, '43, from St. Louis. He Is at St. Louis Dental School now. Kail Haover, '44, took basic with me and while at Fitzsimmons in Denver he sot a C.D.U. Met several Notre Dame boys while in Denver. Clea Coastaatlae was in the same camp as well as several others 1 can't recalL 
"Aas Crawley was then at Camp Hale and we had two nice visits In Denver before he shipped out. The Notre Dame Club of Denver contacted me twice and they seem to have a nice organization. . . I attended the Navy game last Saturday and the boys showed up in true style. I noticed several '44 men there, but can't recall the names. I know some were engineering students at Notre Dame. 
" "Qiga' fliiriaaa writes often and is cadre in Robinson, Ark. He was a POW quite a while and hopes for a discharge soon. Jnat heard from Jla* Gratriey. He is in Manila now. I hear that Jeny Bwaa returned to the Stateai but no word since then. He was la OLCS. overseas, but dropped out on V-J' Day. 
"As for myself, I was discharged, last year to attend dental school.' I'm a sophomore now and slaving away. Jae 'Casarta, '45. la a senior here at Western Reserve Dental School with me. Glad to hear that Jade Wadflc, Beik Clatk. BUI flrliiaiiilci and the rest'are OJC But sorry to hear about those who were killed. Sore ia hard to believe." 
'Black Jobn* Murphy has come across again, so here goes with a few notes from his letter of Sept. 11. 
"Have two recent letters from Tom O'Con­nor, but it's mostly personal, so I won't pass it alonir. Be does say that he met Tom (KReilly up Switzerland way. 0*R is a looie in the 34th Division after bouncing around replacement depots. Old Ernie Sedmasr was transferred out of O'Connor'^: outfit up to a G-4 section in USFA. I hear Mor Rogers and 
•lay O'C^nnetl are up that way too. 
"I hear you mec Armicer 'Joe* Sommers while you were out at school. He is a good pal of Ed I>owliiir*s and mine. Brother Meinrad sent me the August 'Alumnus.' and I was very glad to have it." 
'Black John' was discharged Sept. 27. Ju^t as we were getting copy together he brought us up to date with another letter. This time, Nov. 14. 
"I got an appointment yesterday through Federal Civil Service and have a good job for now and when I finish up my last year at Xotre Dame. Mr. John Balfc, *20, of the Met­ropolitan Club helped me by sending me to CoL Joe Tieniey, '21, who gave me all tlie dope and much of his valuable time. Both are great guys and deserve more than my small 'blow.' 
"Heard from Bill McNanmm, the 155-lb. champ in the 1942 Bengals and one grand pal. He's stin in the Pacific Theatre. Tom O'Con­nor is still in Trieste—I really wish he'd get home. No word from Ernie Sedmayr in Aus­tria. Mox Boceis is back from his voyage to Eff>-pt. 
"At the Army game rally at the Waldorf-Astoria I saw Creiicht Miller who's doing okay at Tale. Also there In civvies were Farrell Quintan, Jade Kelly (now studying law at Co­lumbia), Jack Sullivan, Jue Sommers, Nick Amato, Chock Borers and many more. They all looked great. I>o lArdie, Bill Rogers. Jack Vceneman (just married). Jack Hlne^i, Frank King: and a liost of others were all over the place too." 
One more item before we leave Murph. By the time most of you read this, he will be happily engaged to a sweet gal named Agnes. And that's all he would tell me. 
The mailbag is empty now, except for a short note from Btfi Mammina who is studying at the University of Indiana Law School. Ben sent along some pictures taken Oct. 27 on cam­pus, after the Iowa game. And this: 
"It sure was swell to see Herb Clark that week-end. He was reported missing in the last alumni news I received. .. . I got a letter from Buzz Hassett yesterday. He's work­ing for a broadcasting station in Iowa and is really getting up in the world. Tom Halligan Is working for his dad in Flint, Mich." 
While on a 30-day furlough during October your columnist saw two of Xotre Dame's home games, met a lot of old friends and picked up some bits of news that can be passed along right here. On campus for the Dartmouth game Oct. 13 were '44 men Bob MacDonnell, just released from the Air Force. Stratte Coor­las and his fiancee. Jack McCabe, just re­turned from duty with the 15th AAF, Herb Claik and his wife. BilL JSnyder, Jim Hubbard, Hank Adam, in from Great Lakes NTS, Jack Seffcrson, Harry lAvery, still on the hospital circuit but looking okay, and Paul Larson, back tromiSavy duty at Corregidor. Bob Le Mense, 
•43, on his way to join the 45th Division at C^amp Bowie, Texas, and Joe Conerty, '45, making the most of a short leave while his ship was in a Florida port, were also seen. 
After the game the Blarney Room of the Oliver Hotel was the scene of some mild festivities well attended by Xotre Dame men of recent years. Among those present at various times during the evening were: Tom Bremer, '44, studying law at Xotre Dame, Ed KavanMich, '44, working for Ball Band in Mishawaka, Fete Moritc, *43, Bob McKee, '42, Jack Tallett, '43, Jack Edwards, '43, Fred Gore, '43, Byron Kanaley, '42. Dick Murphy, 
LL Joe Patrucco, Ben Mammina.'cmd Pic. John Lynch mugging for the camera after the Iowa game. (See '44 clou news.) 
'45, Ton>' Zasame, '42. Jim McNnlty, '42. Ed Roney, '43, and Faol Faslia, '41. To complete the picture there were three belles of St. Mary's, class of '43: Jeanne Buddy. Alma Puglia, and Dolly iloore Xeale. 
Joe Lanigan was still on campus but getting ready to pull stakes and head for the West Coast on some business deal. Joe had the following bits to contribute: Mark McGrath started the September term at Holy Cross Col­lege, .theological seminary. In Washington, D. C.; Sift. Ed Meagher has returned from across and Is or was stationed at FL Bragg, N. C., with G-4 of 1st Army Hq.; S/Sgt. Andy McElroy lias returned from overseas and Is or was at Camp Wheeler, Ga.; Bob 3I«i|clier, '45, is in a GI school in England; J. H. Johnston, '45, is with the 101st Airborne in tlie occupation of Berlin; Jim Nen'nuui was last seen in Wei-mer, Germany, but was soon to come home; Lt. Bob Londerigan ' was in Tank Destroyer School at Camp Hood, Texas, later awaiting shipment overseas; Nick Amato is at Colum­bia University taking his master's degree in history; Bob McBride, while on furlough in Lancaster, O., was coaching the local high school team; Bob Callen Is at Columbia study­ing English and philosophy; Air Force Xt. 'Lstrry Goebelcr and his wife visited the campus in anticipation of his returning to classes in the near future; Howard Garrig:an, after a trip to the South Pacific, has returned to study pre med; Vic Kitnmel, after being caught In tlie revolution in Greece, is returning to Notre Dame to study law; Bob nltte studied radar at MIT, then went to Pearl Harbor; John Rtischer finished in accounting at Xotre Dame after his discliarge from the service; Fkmnk Carver Is on the farm at Altoona. X. Y.; Dom Buetto is expected back In the law school; Vic De Simon is expected back also; Georre Sullivan Is^enterlng law school at Xorthwestem University; Art,I>y is back and living in Sorin; M.ke Fmwiey has been seen frequently on the campus. 
For the Iowa game, Oct. 27. Ban Tomcik and Ed SochalskI drove down from Detroit. Dan is at the Grosse lie Xaval Station; Ed lives and works in Detroit. Ben Mammioa and Lt. Joe Patmcoo were there, as were Herb Clark and Bill Snyder once again. Jack McKeoD, '4C. was trying to blend his olive drab with the blue and gold of the student section in the stadium. Carl Coco, '43, whom we last saw in Rome. Italy, more than a year ago, was sweating out the Caf line. 
And last, but not least by any means, there was Father Joe Barry, C.S.C, '29. a man's man, and the doughboy's real friend, who was spend­ing a few days on campus before rejoining the 45th at Camp Bowie. 
IF YOU'RE '44. LET'S WRITE A LETTER. 
lit. (ir) Mandell Zie^ler of South Bend Is executive officer of an LST and stationed on 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Saipan. T/5 Bob McAnlllTe, Syracuse, N. Y., has been reported to be on Tinlan. 
Cpl. Walter "Mox" Roscrs, chaplain's assist­ant for the 88th division, 349th Infantry, holds the combat infantry badge. Mediterranean theater ribbons and has been awarded the Bronze Star medal for meritorious work. Mox accompanied his chaplain on a trip to the Holy Land. 
JA. Orlando Bonlcclll was pictured with a channing young lady in the Nov. ll. "Chicago Tribune." The caption said that he was visit­ing friends at St. Catherine's in St. Paul, Minn.. while on leave. 
1st 14. Angelo Bertelll returned to football wars this fall when he was transferred from Third Marine division to Pearl Harbor, where he played football with a Marine all-star eleven. Bert had been managing the Third Marine division baseball team, winner of 26 games against three defeats. 
Otto Mileti is an assistant research chemical engineer for U. S. Industrial Chemicals of Stamford. Conn. 
John Farchem Is now a member of the aero­nautical engineering staff at Notre Dame- Lt. Ban SolUran, Huntington Woods, Mich., re­ported to Norfolk, Va., to train for duties aboard a destroyer or similar type vessel. A 
. veteran of 17 months aboard destroyers, Dan wears the American Area ribbon and the European-African-Middle Eastern Area ribbon with an combat star-
Bob Walton. M.E. of the "South Bend Trib," met Lt. OK) Fkonk Crowley In a Guam hospi­tal. Prank received compound fractures of his jaw last July when a giant wave broke over his destroyer and caught him and two other officers. 
John Scfaroeter, Cleveland, O., has been pro­moted to first lieutenant as platoon officer In the military police headquarters. Tenth Corps on Mindanao. John has been overseas 14 months in New Guinea, Leyte and Mindanao Islands. His brother Lt. Ed, '40, is in the Navy. 
Jim Casey is purveying blue skies, sunshine and real estate in Tucson, Ariz., and is residing on a dude ranch nearby. He stopped at Notre Dame recently, en route by car from Buffalo to Tucson. 
1945 and Later 
D.WID R. CO>T>ON, "The Chicago Tribune," Chicago, III. 
From Al I<esmex; 
Well, it certainly is not nice being back at Sheppard Field. Texas—not after that wonder­ful furlough in Xew York and my visit to Notre Dame. The deflnltc trend toward the civilian on the campus cannot be denied. By now only the XROTC and a few V-12 are left as civvies push into more and more of the decommissioned hails. 
Publications' Office: it was a treat seeing and speaking with my old "boss." Father Cliaries Carry, C.S.C, who is now associate editor of "The Ave Maria" magazine. The advertising department of the "Scholastic" again boasts the verj- pretty "personality kid" herself. Marguerite Varga. Marguerite had been working for the Alumni Association for the past year. Brotlm' Finbarr is still his hospitable self at "The Ave." So are Joe Guentert and the rest. 
Alamnl Association: Mr. Annstronr and Mr. l>«oler looked well as ever, both beaming their familiar happy smiles at seeing one of the "family" return for a» visit. [Thanks, pal. Must have been pay day In the Alumni Office.— Eds.] 
Dept. of Aeronaatlcal Engineerinc: Xo place feels so much like home at Notre Dame as the office and labs of the Aero. Dept. Mr. Fraak Bnmn, Mr. Edward Kavananrb, Mr. AM Ha Sllleh were all busy at work with 

Volume 23, No. 6, December, 1945 
papers to correct and exam schedules to meet, but we managed to spend a few minutes talk-In? things over. At her usual place sat Miss Bette Black, secretary of the department, wno always did such a nice job of typing up the "Burble" for us. Bumped Into Cliff 3farfcs and Otto Ctmnder* midshipmen, who graduated in June with me- Along with Joe Haggar and Bill Bcvins:ton, they were to receive their com­missions as ensigns the next week. The de­partment now boasts a new addition: a P-39 in the labs on the first floor of the Engineer­ing Building. 
Serin Hall: Of course, I couldn't keep away from "Ye Olde Sorin Inn." I talked with Father Forrestal, C.S.C, and found out that Phil Martin Is doing graduate work and some teaching at N. D.; Vince Cushin^, who was married a few months ago, is back at N. D. taking some advanced work. 
Miscellaneous: Good old Tummy Otvcn Is still a busy-bee around the dining hall. "Zlggy" and "Cash" still dictate behind the counters. The Bookstore continues to be the busy spot of tlie campus, with Brothers Meinrad and Cunan willing to give you a good bit of their time talking over old times. In short. It is nice to say tliat Kotre Dame is still very much Notre Dame. 
The mailman brings me letters regularly from my old roomie from Memphis, Tenn.. Paul 
W> Smithy ex. *45. He is in the seventh semes­ter of electrical engineering at Pennsylvania State College with the Army Specialized Train­ing Program. 
Paul's semester ends the first week of Decem­ber and after that he is not sure just what the Army has in store for him. He plans to return to N. D. on getting his discharge. 
Another roommate writes me from Japan. Cpl. IVederick "Godfrey" Bremer, ex. '45, who was one of the first to go in my freshman class. His last communique says: 
"I just received your letter of Oct. 23 and I've moved again since you last heard from nie. I've reached the end of the trail. Tokyo. I got here about a week after V-J day and what a time we've had. "We came in armed to the teeth but nothing materialized. When we first got here, people would bow as we passed them on the street and wlien we got on a streetcar, they would get up and give us their seat. "We work in the Radio Tokyo build­ing where all their broadcasts originate and one really meets the so-called free-thinker here. The weather Is rather fall weather. It feels good after being in the tropics for so long." 
A buddy from my neighborhood, who was on the freshman track and cross-countrj- team, Pfc. John A. Reilly, ex. '45, writes from Italy: 
"I am still in Milan and living the life of Reilly the way it should be lived. I expect to leave for Iiome in about a month or so and hope to be a civilian by the first of the year." 
Pfc. Reilly was wounded in the fighting In Germany and later was transferred from his Infantry outfit to headquarters of the Fifth Army. 
Another of my roommates writes from the Philippines. I>on lATocque S 1/C, ex, '45, says he's hoping to receive his discharge soon and re-enter Notre Dame to take up his studies where they were interrupted: 
"I am doing business with the USAFI concern lately, taking differential calculus. I thought it would be a good Idea to get the jump on the math department at Notre Dame. I may be able to last a couple of extra months thLs way when I get back.'* 
Pvt. George Despot, ex. '45, who many will remember as that Shreveport, La. journalist who was managing editor of the "Scholastic" a couple of semesters bacic, writes from camp Robinson, Ark., that he finally was able to find that Chicago Irishman. Pvt. George Briody, ex. '48. who is taking basic in that same camp. 
Some day soon. If this discharge machine ever gears up, wo may all meet once more at Notre Dame. 
Jolinn}- Bresnalmn and Ed Sanders are both in the V-12 Unit at Crelghton University School of Medicine.- Jim Schaeffer started in the G. 
E. publicity department In Schenectady, N. T., the first of November. Bob Morrigscy and Bob Ri<»rdan, v^ce counsuls, were enrolled in the foreign service ofiicer's training school operated by the State Department in TVashlngton. D. C. and Bob was later assigned to service in Africa. More later. 
Bob O'Toole's niche is with the Hoover Com­pany in Chicago. It was told through the public relations ofiicer of the Zist division in the Philippines how Sgt. Bob Uvinsstone of Hammond. Ind., fought bravely and with valor as squadleader of the rifie company of his division. Bob came through his many many battle experiences without injury but on his last day of action discovered that there were three bullet holes in his trousers* leg! 
Sgt. Norris Anderson. Marine Corps combat correspondent, wrote that five members of Notre Dame's 1943 national championship team were reunited at Pearl Harbor as Fleet Marine Force grid candidates. They were" I4s, John Perko, Julie BykoTich, Gasper Urban, Ansdo BertellJ, Joe Siffnoigo and Set. John Yonakor. 
Frank Unehan Is an accountant with A. J. Eckert Co., Inc., of Albany, N. T., and TMU Vail is working for Federal Telephone and Radio in New Jersey. 
Ernie Kivisto, who was here as a Marine back in '43 and '44, received his discharge and returned to Marquette to get his degree. S/Sct. Tom Matthews received the Bronze Star In Krumlov. Czechoslovakia. 
TySgt. Jim Clark of Delphos, O., is taking a liberal arts course In Shrivenham American University In England. "Winner of the Bronze Star, Jim belongs to the 94th Infantry Di­vision, has been overseas 14 months and has four battle stars. 
Mr. and Jlrs. Rudy Anderson, parents of Ensign Rudy, delighted the M. E. of the "Alum­nus"with a magnificent turkey dinner in their home in Brooklyn, on Nov. 11, the day after the Army game. Also present to woric on the bird were Jim Cawley, *40, and his wife and young daughter. Jim, lately discharged from the Navy after long service in the Atlantic and Pacific, Is Mrs. Anderson's brother. 
PROF. COONEV SUCCUMBS 
(Continued from Pase 10) 

we will try to follow Professor Cooney's apostleship by bringing the gentle touch of God's hand and the warmth of God's goodness into that too often barren part of His vineyard—our daily contact with our fellowmen. 
"May his generous soul and the souls of all the faithful departed, in the Mercy of God rest in peace. Amen." 
Briefly for the record, the biographical facts concerning Professor Cooney are these. 
Professor Cooney was bom in Louis­ville, Ky., Nov. 2,1875. On June 14,1906, he married the former Margaret Mat-tingly in St. Charles, Ky., and she sur­vives with one daughter, Mrs. Daniel C. O'Grady, wife of a Notre Dame profes­sor of philosophy. 
Professor Cooney first attended St. Mary's college, Maryland, which con­ferred an A3 , degfree on him and later, in 1896, an AJK. In 1917 at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame he earned the degree of doctor of philosophy. He was teacher of En^ish at St. Mary^s eoll^e, Ken­tucky, from 1896 to 1898, again in 1900 and 1901 and finally from 1904 to 1906. In that 3rear Be became president of Co­lombia College in Kentucky, a post which he retained ontil moving to Notre Dame in September, 1911. He was one of the first presidents of the Lay Faculty dob at the University, was associated with the South Bend Bound Table and the Knights of.Colambos. 
They cannot, unfortunately, indicate, even, the real moral and phOosophie stature of the simple citizen they de^ scribe. 
Professor Cooney was buried in High­land Cemetery, South Bend, where many other headstones note lives devoted to Notre Dame. Pall-bearers were William 
A. A. Castellini, Walter Clements, Bobert McAuliffe, John Sheehan, William Dool­ey and James Armstrong. Bev. Paul Bussell, Louisville, said the requiemi Mass. Many priests were present, includ­ing Bev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C. 
CHRISTMAS 
WHY NOT an abiding gift with Qtm 
flaror oi the camima? WHY NOT Noir* Dome BOOIS ior Notre Dam* Man? 
NOTRE DAME—100 YEARS 
$4.00 
• 

COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C. —^2.50 
THESET — $5X)0 

These books will be mailed, in an attractive box, with your Christmas Greetings enclosed. Direct all orders to: 
BOABD OF PUBUCATIONS 
AdBunifltratum Bitilning< 
Notra DanM« Indiana 

Notre Dame 1945 Varsity Football Squad 
55---^ ,^5 wl3 ^G7 :?,39 ^ST A 7E^' q!^~^ 55 ^s^° ilcW.UJ .% '^% 61^. 50^, g-'eVB ^0 \^'2 ^9 f^3 JO .E ^ .. 
64 SS 48 51 15 47 71 18 4 ^g 17 42 /^. 
' V.' 
*m % * 

Left to Right — Bottom Bow: Dick Debuono. John Glaab, Joe Gasparella, John Mastrangelo, Elmer Angsman. Peter Berezney, Phil Colella, Bob Skoglund. Capt Frank Doncewicz. Marty Wendell, John Agnone. Fred Rovai, Ed Miesz­kowski. 2nd Row: Bill Russell. Jim Kurzynske. Phil O'Connor. Walter Grothaus, Roger Cadieux. John Panelli. Tom Potter. Bill Fischer.' Vince Scott John Fallon. Dick Cronin, Leroy Pantera, Mike Bush. 3rd Row: Frank Tripucke, Matt Maryanski, Emil Slovak, Bill Flynn, Bill Walsh, Jim McGurk, Frank Ruggerio, Bruno Opela, Ed Stelmazek, Steve 
Oracko, Terry Brennan, Bill Gompers, Ed Fay, Bill Leonard. 4th Row: Dick Heman, Frank CopoUa, Bill Zehler, Frank Johnson, Ernie Virolc Al D'AIanzo, Bob White, Tom Schreiber, Bill Michaels, Al Schmid, Bob McAuliffe. Top Row: John Graii (Mgr.). Ken Stilley. Joke Kline, Hugh Devore, Joe Sbeeketsld, Waller Ziemba, Harry Jacunsld, Jimmy Mol­idor, Ted Rademacher (Mgrs.). 
Who's Who in Hoosierdom 
All other states may have some team to which they point with pride. From mountain peaks to rolling plains or where the breakers ride. From Florida to Oregon, from Texas up to Maine, From Michigan to Tennessee we hear the stout refrain. They're spilling oratory for a winning football team. But our Who's Who in Hoosierdom shows three teams known to fame. Purdue and Indiana—and the bunch from Notre Dame; So in this famous Hoosier state we'll make the rafters roar. For Isbell, "Bo" McMillan, and for good old Hugh Devore. 
—Grantland Rice 





