The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
Spring 
Comes 
to 
Notre 


Dame 
(N. B. That street car passes for a real one. Once the Hill Street car» the word Sample refers to tiie street it ultimately traversed when the pic­ture was taken.) 

Vol. 18 MARCH, 1940 No. 5 

s I rT$ 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
For the Economics Research Fund:  For the Roger Ryan Memorial Scholarship:  
Pre\'iously acknowledged $60,000 Anonymous 15,000 Col. R R. McComiick, Chicago, 10. 2,000  Previously acknowledged $ 1,665.00 Mrs. Heloise Duncan, Green Bay, Wisconsin 20.00  
Total  to  date­ ?77,000.00  Anonjmious, '06 The Ryan Family, Chicago, 111.  25.00 50.00  
For the Bishop O'Hara Scholarship Fund: The Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman, D.D  1,000.00  Mrs. Winifredgo, Illinois   Gallagher, Chica­ 10.00  
For Julius A. Nieuwland Memorial Foundation:  Total to date .  1,770.00  
Previously acknowledged  566,093.76  
From the estate of the late Dr.  For Needy Students:  
Stephen J. Maher, 1932 Lae­tare MedalistAnonymous  1,000.00  6,686.49  " The Most Rev. T. J. Toolen, D.D $100 Mr. Basil Harris, Washington, D.C. — 110 Mr. Karl F. Johnson, '29 100  

Mr. Stanley Kahn, New York City .... 100 Total to date 73,780.25 
Mr. Herman Feigenheimer 25 For Apologetics Scholarships: 
From Mr. E. Byrne Hackett, Uew York City; Previously acknowledged $11,710.76 
For the Dante Collection: 
Anonymous 2,000.00 
A miniature Divina Commedia, published Anonymous 340.36 
at Florence in 1840. 
Anonymous 60.00 
From the Rev. Timothy Krohoth, Saginaw, Mich. Total to date 14,111.12 A valuable collection of books on Art. 
For the Roclcne Memorial 

Rockne Memorial pledges from October 26th. to date arc: • 
John A. Abel, Marion. Ohio™ James Amas, East Liverpool, Ohio-» Dr, Meyer Alperon, East Liverpool. Ohio-
Chris Amas, East Liverpool, Ohio 
Eugene D. Bacuric (Deceased) Paterson, N. J, Joseph Behl, Camden, N. J— 
W. O. BrisKS, Jr., Detroit-Mary Barron, Chicago 
B. L. Bennett, East Liverpool, Ohio-. Arthur A. Baum, '36, "Wilmington, Del.­
A. J. Bacurle, Scranton, Pa A\lIIiam J. Boylan, Paterson, N. J-, 

John R. Conlin, '27, De Kalb, III 5 Francis J. Cushing, '29, New York City 25 Timothy C^llaghan, Woodside, N. Y 2 William E. Cotter, '13, 
New Rochelle, N. Y. Equipment Robert B. Cummins, '27, Mandan, N. Dak. • 5 
James E. Djgan, '29, Logansport, Ind. 

Equipment Daniel Bowling, Paterson, N. J. 5 Frank Diamond, East Liverpool, Ohio 1 Daniel DeRocco, Monessen, Pa. , 2 
G. A. Farabaugh, '04, South Bend. _1,000 Edmund J. Finn, '28, Salida, Colo„ 2 Charles Freeman, '38, Chicago 5 
R. L. Forbes. '35, Chicago - 60 
L. J. Gemon, Detroit _ 75 Murray Gardner, East Liverpool, Ohio-John P, Guerin, '32, New York City 
A. J. HofTman, Shadyside, Ohio— 
C. C. Hartwig, Martins Ferry, Ohio-Richard Haskins, Columbus, Ohio Rudy Halpate, East Liverpool, Ohio— 
W. R. Haggert. Fargo, N. Dak 
John Jay. East Liverpool, Ohio— 
Dr. C. F. Kinsey, East Liverpool, Ohio 
Don Carlo Mennuci, ('53). South Bend— Dr. Thomas Moore, '33, Bloomington, HI— Dr. A. J. Michaels, East Liverpool, Ohio— Edward & Dennis iladigan, 
Dunkirk. N. Y. Charles Mangeney, Paterson, N. J — Frank Motley, Brooklyn John P. Maloney. Brooklyn •• Dr. Carl l^IcCutcheon. 
East Liverpool, Ohio 
Mrs. Mary T. Ness. Grand Forks, N. Dak. 
(Sig.) 

1 • 5  Notre Dame Club ofaeveland. Ohio   (Additional)  
1 1 1 1 25  Louis P. O'Brien, East Liverpool, Oiiio_„ Edw. J. O'Toole. Brooklyn Otto A. PfafT, Mishaw.ilia, Ind H. Jerome Parlier, *30, New York City._  .1, 1 100 50  
Cliarlcs F. Quinn, '34, Mineola, N. Y_  
James F. RafTerty, Salem, Oliib... Jolin J. Kced, Brooklyn Joseph L. Rafter. *30, Harrisburff, Pa James H. Rowe, Butte, Mont Frank Ityan, Kalamazoo, Mich Thomas F. Rafter, Harrishurff, Pa._  1 5 25 10 5 5  
Maurice E. Stafford, New York CityHobart P. Shcan. '31, Worcester. Mass•\VilIiam D. Spillan, Philadelphia, PaJames M. Whalen. Chicseo  2 5 1  100  
Total Previous Total .  _S 1.671.00 _ 258,052.16  
Grand Total  _S2S9,733.16  

^ . >Jtuqri (J J)onneli, Co.C President 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Hiix magazine is published monthly from October to June, inclusive (except January), by the Univertfty of Notre Damow 
Notre Dame. Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1. 1939. at the Postoffice. Notre Dame. Indiana, under th« 
act of AuEust 24. 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. JAMES E. ARMSTRONG. "25, EdHor; WILUAM R. DOOLEY. 26, Managing Eiitor 
Vol. 18. MARCH, 1940 No. 5. 
Father Wenninger, *11, Science Dean, Dies 
Great Notre Dame Scientist and Educator, III for 
Several Years, Refusing to Give Up Work, Stricken in 

Office; Famous for Development of Pre-Medic Course 
"When the heat of the day is spent let me return to rest where the twilight falls around thy golden dome. Francis 
J. Wenninger." Prophecies seldom are fulfilled as has heen the one above, which appeared in the Dome of 1911. The morning of February 12, 1940, Eev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., '11, dean of the College of Science, appeared in the University offices to discharge the daily duties of the deans. He had spent a bad night with his heart, as he had so many nights in recent years. A half hour later, in his office in the Biology Build­ing, he was dead. Sudden, but as Father 
Miltner so beautifully said, not unpre­pared. 
Father Wenninger was graduated from Notre Dame in 1911. Foreign-bom, like his great contemporary priest-scien­tist. Father Nieuwland, he brought to the Congregation of Holy Cross and to Notre Dame, that rare gift in a brilliant mind, devotion to science subordinated to devotion to God. Always zealous in the progress of science, he was equally ardent in his religion and intolerant of the scientific fallacies which sought to exclude God from nature. His reaction was beautifully manifested, in one chan­nel, in his love of the liturgy and his comprehensive knowledge of the cere­monials of the Church, which found him master of ceremonies at so many of the Notre Dame functions. 
He was ordained in 1916, the same year in which he received his S.T.B. from Catholic University. In 1917 he received his M.S. from Notre Dame where he had returned to teach. In 1923 he became Dean of the College of Science, to permit Father Nieuwland to pursue his great researches. In 1927 Father W^enninger was granted a leave of ab­sence to attend the University of Vienna, and in 1928 he received his Ph.D. there after one of the greatest intellectual per­formances in the records of that great university. He resumed his duties as Dean at Notre Dame, and acted also as head of the department of biology, under which department he won national recognition among medical schools for the high caliber of his pre-medic stu­dents. The number and excellence of Notre Dame doctors, far in excess of normal proportions, is a living monu­ment to the-ability and the zeal of their Dean. 
Breen medalist while a student. Father Wenninger combined with a deep knowl­edge of science, an ability to express his field and its human and spiritual rela­tionships in a masterful fashion. He was in demand as both speaker and writer, devoting much time and energy to these fields, but never at the sacrifice of his duties as Dean and teacher. Alumni have had, through Club meetings and through the ALUMNUS, a generous share of his talents. A Sacred Heart Church, fiUed to overflowing for his funeral, was eloquent of his power to make friends. 
His manifold talents, expressed with a dynamic personality and an 'order which reflected his love of the order of creation, will be hard to replace. And it is significant of the greatness of his life that in death he has won the wish he expressed as a Notre Dame senior, to rest where the twilight falls on the golden dome and on the cemetery of the Congre­gation, nearer the sunset, where he keeps company with so many of the great teachers of Notre Dame. 

"... loyalty to Alma Mater... charity to fellow-Tium" 
All at the University are deeply shocked at the sudden death of Father Francis Wenninger, dean of the College of Science. Exemplary priest and distinguished scientist, he had a very important part in the development of the science program at Notre Dame, particularly of the premedic course. In his lectures, he was always careful to portray the harmony that must exist between reli^on and science, and ever championed this truth before the various scientific gatherings throughout the country. 
Father Wenninger was also the faithful and competent master of cere­monies at the various liturgical exercises in Sacred Heart Church, and only recently acted as personal assistant to Bishop O'Hara at his consecration. 
Although occupied chiefly with his academic work, he found time to take an active part in the civic life of South Bend, and very often appeared as guest-speaker before the different civic organizations. 
Until the very end he was faithful to the assignments given him, and in his death, the University suffers a real loss. He will always be remem­bered for his loyalty to Alma Mater and his charity to fellow-man. May his soul rest in peace with the Master Whom he served so well while on earth. 
—Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, CS.C. 
• • Sermon delivered by the Rev. Charles C.i4 Miltner, C.S.C., '11, at the Requiem Mass ^ « of the Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C3-C.,


eternal Cfesit 
'11, in Sacred Heart Church, Feb. U, 1940. 
"Eternal rest grant unto him, 0 Lord, and let perpetual light shine upon him." 
These words, like the refrain of a song, recur repeatedly in the liturgy of the Church's service for the dead. To some it may seem strange that in our prayers for the dead we should speak of them as though they were still living. But to us who are of the household of the faith, it is not strange at all, for our prayers do but express our belief. Our belief is that the dead are not whol­ly dead, that the hand of death touches only the body, but that the soul which animated the body, on being separated from it begins a new and immortal life. If therefore we pray God to grant rest to our beloved dead, and to let perpetual light, the blessed light of His own coun­tenance, shine upon them, it is because we believe that, freed from the body, they are capable of active repose in the enjoyment of God, of that endless ec­stasy which comes of seeing Him face to face. 
It is in that sense that Father Wen­ninger is dead. And therefore we who today mourn his passing are not like those who mourn without consolation and without hope. 
It is a curious and a regrettable cir­cumstance of life that we neither notice nor appreciate our fellow workers right­ly until they are gone from us. Familiar contact with them places a quietus on our critical spirit. The good they do we acknowledge, perhaps, but for the greater part take for granted. We see it too closely to see it rightly. But once they drop from our ranks, once we miss them from our midst and know they \vil\ not return, we begin to see what manner of men they were. It is then that mem­ory put to the task sketches for us some connected pattern of their lives, and lets us see in perspective how each part is related to all the rest, — how the lights and shadows complement one another, how the pain and the laughter, the work and the play, the hopes and the disap­pointments, and the successes and the failures, each added its little touch and brought out the rounded fulness of the whole. 
Today as we look back on the life of Father Wenninger we can see such a pattern. As in every pattern, so in the pattern of his life, there is a dominant characteristic, one which in large meas­ure explains all the rest. What charac­terized his life was a passion for com­pleteness, that is, an idealism which iired him with a restless ambition to do well whatever he undertook to do. It is that which explains his love of hard work, his tremendous capacity for work and, alas, his tendency to overwork. It explains 
Rev. Francis T.Wenninger, C.S.C. 
-I- FEBRUARY 12. 1940 
Bom at Pomaffcn, Austria. October 27, 18S8: received the cassock, July 8, 1911: prorcsscd. September U. 1913; ordained, June 27. 1916. 

his rigorous devotion to the duties that religious obedience, or the obligations of his appointments, or the demands of friendship imposed upon him. It ex­plains also, what some who knew him failed to understand, that is, his open impatience and apparent severity with those who worked with him or under his direction, if they failed to bring to that work something of his own passion for order, for precision, and for perfect performance. It explains, too, the great confidence that those who knew him had in his judgment. They sensed the sure­ness of his mind, the generosity of his heart and the integrity of his character, and they brought him their problems knowing that he would probe them to the depths and find a solution if one could be found. It explains finally the two monuments that he built for him­self. Every teacher builds for himself a monument in the souls of those whom he instructs. It appears in the quality of their personal lives and in the success of their work. Seen under these aspects, his monument looms high indeed. Few in our midst could point to so many for­mer students now willing to acknowledge that their success in life owes so much to our instruction as he could. His sec­ond monument is built here on the cam­pus, for no one familiar with the history of the development of the College of Science, and especially the biological department of it, will hesitate to grant that it was mainly due to his devoted 
service and wise direction. 
But there is one thing above all about Father Wenninger which the passion for excellent work does not explain. De­spite all his love of books and his devo­tion to the problems of science, he dis­played in his intimate personal relations the heart of a child. Like a child, he could laugh at any time and at almost anything. Like a child, he could be eas­ily pleased and as equally displeased, he could be quickly hurt and as quickly placated. He was quick to forget an of­fense, and grateful for the least favor done him. This, I say, was not due to any eifort; it was simply his natural disposition, coupled with a genuine love of human beings. It was, I think, why he habitually had a word of greeting for everybody, why he was so ready and willing to do them a service, why, in a word, he had such a host of friends. 
His going was sudden, but it was neither unforeseen nor unprepared. He knew his condition as well as any phy-^ sician might. He knew and frankly said that some day he would go quickly. And yet, because he was habitually prepared to go, that knowledge neither saddened > nor frightened him. His death was something that he had as carefully pre­pared for as he had for any event in his life. 
And now that he is gone, gone after such a laborious life, a life in which •'' religion meant doing the full will of God as he understood it, it is most fitting that we who .remain should pray that he may now enjoy the rest which he so richly deserves, and that vision of God which is the final end of every man. 

Club Survey Reveals Remarkable Progress 
Questionnaire Brings Out Good and Bad Experiences in Notre Dame Club Organization; Officers Receiving De­tailed Report; Summary Made Here for Benefit of Members 
By KEENE FITZPATRICK, '13. SAN FRANCISCO 
(Second Vice-President of the Association, in Charge of a Special Study of the Local Clubs at the Request of President Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17) 
Following is a summary of a study of Notre Dame's Local Alumni Clubs. Co­incident with this issue of the ALUMNUS, all Club presidents are receiving de­tailed reports. 
But, in conjunction with the other Dir­ectors it seems wse to have our program come to the attention of as many alumni as possible. Particularly in the case of the Clubs is this true, because of the frequent change of Club officers, and the difficulty in our comparatively young state of keeping a continuity of record so that one officer can profit by his predecessor's successes and failures. 
The following brief excerpts follow the Questionnaire upon which most of the conclusions are based: 
Club constitutions ought to be arrived at by inductive logic, that is by local de­mand and experience, rather than super­imposing a set form. 
Monthly meetings for all except a few large Clubs, seem to prevail. 
Annual election of officers, particualrly the president, is overwhelmingly favored. 
However, the growing trend is toward considerable governing power in a Board of Trustees or Governors, a part of whom hold over, so that the Club affairs are not entirely without experienced guidance at any time. 
Fewer than half of the Clubs charge dues, most preferring to finance their activities by other means, usually a sur­charge on special events, or an annual event which customarily enriches the treasury sufficiently. 
The Retreat movement is growing, and is popular where it exists. 
Publicity, of the Club, of the mem­bers, of Notre Dame, still lacks proper attention and dignity in the light of actual progress. 
Scholarships are being approached cautiously, which is a good idea. The aim should not be more ambitious than the Club ability to sustain it. Scholar­ship purpose should be two-fold, to secure for Notre Dame the best potential stu­dents, otherwise not able or likely to attend, and to stress Notre Dame's academic interests through commumity publicity in connection with the award. 
Club interest in securing good stu­dents is still disorganized, and most contacts reported are on an individual basis. Clubs are cooperating, however, where definite requests are made. More initiative would help. 
Placement is attracting a large amount of Club interest. Local plans should be worked out carefully with the full co­operation of the Alumni Office to avoid duplication of effort or objectives beyond our needs or our limitations. 
Progress particularly is noted in the types of meeting popular and suggested. The Clubs now have a national as well as a civic identity, both bearing the seal of the University. There is growing concern over eliminating the old hit-and­miss, wet, and collegiate type of meet­ing, whose after effects were usually successful only in alienating the interest of family and community in Notre Dame men. Particularly, in the field of pub­licizing Club programs, care is being, and should be, used to prevent statements or implications not in keeping with the best interests of Notre Dame and all Notre Dame alumni. Constructive pro­grams, reflecting something of the cul­tural and something of the spiritual in­fluences of Notre Dame, are rapidly supplementing the always pleasant so­cial and fraternal aspects of the Clubs. 
No Club reports a loss of attendance or interest by strengthening its programs and its purposes. A big step toward achieving a dignity of purpose and meet­ing is the selection of a representative meeting place. 
In the question of the place of younger and older alumni in Club affairs, the very practical note predominates in the answer that young men will contribute initiative and ideas and detailed work. 
and older men will contribute experi­enced counsel, and influence. All these assets are lumped, usually through a representation of an age cross-section on the board of directors and in the officers. 
All the Clubs recommend continuing the Universal Notre Dame Night nation­al broadcast. 
Communion breakfasts have become rather encouragingly prevalent, and should jump definitely ahead with the New York Club's post - Questionnaire proposal for a Universal Communion Sunday. 
In spite of experience, there still seems to be a vagueness about relations with other Clubs and the campus Clubs. Happily, a trend toward a better under­standing of the possibilities of coopera­tion is between the lines. 
Growing recognition of the women as a factor in Club programs marks the maturing of the Club viewpoint. All Clubs report success in the development of events which include the wives, moth­ers and girl friends of members. Two women's auxiliary organizations are working out commendably, to the extent of suggesting a national program of such a nature. 
Synthetic alumni and the influential friends Notre Dame has in every comm­unity are still appreciated by the Clubs, increasingly so in fact. But there still persists, and properly, a definite caution about e-xtending privileges of the Club programs in any capacity other than guests. 
All the Clubs favor moving pictures, both athletic and general campus films, but none were helpful in suggesting the financing of this rather expensive pro­gram, all being specific about a low fee, if any. 
Notre Dame Clubs have been a negli­gible factor in lecture series and study (Continued on Page 161) 

1940 Nominating Committees 
Representative Group Appointed by President Hilgartner, to Name Candidates for 1940-41 
President Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17, has announced the following nomina­ting committees to name the candidates for the national offices of the Alumni Association for 1940-41: (N.B. constitu­tionally, the committees are equal in jurisdiction but -nill be designated a and b for purposes of convenience). 
a.) Daniel Shouvlin, S.M.E. '14, 1583 
E. High St., Springfield, 0., chairman; John P. Hurley, Ph.B. Com. '25, 2085 Brookdale Kd., Toledo, 0., and Eugene O'Toole, B.S. '20, 321 State St., St. Jo­seph, Mich. 
b.) Joseph E. Farrell, E.E. '15, 32 N. 27th St., Camp Hill, Pa., chairman; Daniel Coughlin, Ph.B. Joum., '22, Wa­seca, Minn., and M.E. Walter, Ph.B. '14, 
LL.B. '16, A.M, '15, Houston, Te.xas. 
The above committees represent hold­ers of degrees from the five Colleges of the University. They represent six Classes and six active Clubs. 
The nominees selected by these Comm­ittees, to appear in the April ALUJINUS and on the Ballot sent out shortly there­after, should be as representative. 
The Committees name, jointly, an hon­orary president. Separately, they nomi­nate candidates for president, first vice-president, second vice-president, and a director for a 4-year term to succeed Joseph M. Byrne Jr., '15, whose term expires June, 1940. 
Directors Francis McKeever, Edward O'Toole and John Higgins remain on the Board. President Hilgartner becomes a member of the Board ex-ofiicio for the ensuing year. The executive secretary and assistant secretary are subject to appointment by the Board. 

NOTRE DAME OF THE FUTURE 
Sons of alnmni of the Kotre Dame Club of the Twin Cities, Minneapolis and "St. Paul. Top Row, L to r. Jimroie, son of Leon Moes, *26; Tom and John Bins, sons of the late Walter Bins and nephews of Jack Htckok, '26; John, son of Bob Bladden, *26; and Lee, son 
of Lee SoUiffe, '25 2nd Row, L to r. Charles, another Madden son; and Arthur, son of Art Sallivan, '26. 3rd Row, L to r. Slidiael and Charles Hall, sons of Walter Hall, '25; Slidiael, son of LoaU 
Regan, '29; and Robert, son of John Doyle, *2S. Bottom Row, L to r. Terrr, another Sullivan son; and David, son of Frank ISIayer, '26. 
Coneratolations to the Twin Cities from the Department of Promotion. 
(Ed. Note: Watdi the ALUMKUS next month for an anniversary story of the Women's ArnxUiary of the Twin Cities Club, the real raison d'etre for this jrroup vhich the fathers so proudly present.) 

Universal N.D. Night April 15 
92 Local Alumni Clubs Plan Record Tribute 

Monday night, April 15, the world will learn once more, for the seventeenth con­secutive year, that Notre Dame men in all parts of the world are loyal to Notre Dame, and the progress which has re­warded this loyalty. 
Founded in 1924, the Night has grown in scope and in significance to one of the great college alumni functions in the entire educational picture, and the idea has been used in modified forms by several other leading schools. 
This year, 92 Local Alumni Clubs will participate. The Notre Dame Club of Detroit has been chosen as the Club from which the key program will be broadcast. Negotiations for a national hook-up are in progress. Tentative plans involve the appearance on this central program of Bishop John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, former president of the Uni­versity; Harry Kelly, Secretary of State of Michigan and a member of the Notre Dame Club.of Detroit; Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C. S. C, president of Notre Dame; the Notre Dame Glee Club; Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics of the University, and W. J. Cameron, nationally known spokesman of the Ford Hour. 
In the meantime. Local Clubs are urged to plan for utilization of local channels of publicity, particularly press and radio, to bring their programs before their community. Notre Dame has had outstanding cooperation from the local radio stations In past years, and if the Clubs will organize programs of interest to the community, they can be assured of the continued cooperation of these stations. 
In this capacity, the Clubs are re­quested to explore the best possible pro­gram involving leading alumni, honorary degree holders, Laetare Medallists, ath­letic heroes with some Notre Dame iden­tification such as our own alimuii or those who have played against us, mem­bers of the Hierarchy or clergy to whom the Clubs should be a source of aid as well as friendship, and national officers of the Alumni Association. 


UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS . . . . 
Following the death of Eev. Francis 

J. Wenninger, C.S.C, '11, Bev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16, president of the University, announced that for the re­maining school year, Prof. Henry B. Froning, head of the departments of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, would serve as administrative director of the College of Science, and that Prof. Theodor K. Just.would serve as head of the department of Biology. 
Prof. Froning has been a member of the faculty of the College of Science since 1920. 
Dr. Just, like Father Wenninger, a Ph.D. from the University of Vienna, came to Notre Dame in 1929. He is ed­itor of the American Midland Naturalist, published at Notre Dame where it was founded by the late Father Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C, and is also librarian and editor of the Lloyd Library of Bot­any Pharmacy, Materia Medica and Chemistry in Cincinnati. 
Francis E. JIcBIahon, Ph.D., assistant professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, was named president of the American Catholic Philosophical Association at its annual meeting in December in Wash­ington, D. C Dr. McMahon has been at Notre Dame since 1933. He received his doctorate from Catholic University and studied at Louvain and Munich. 
Three new faculty members are teach­ing at Notre Dame in the second semes­ter of this year. 
Robert Speaight, English actor and novelist, who taught in the 1939 summer session, is teaching a course in Shake­speare. Mr. Speaight recently completed an acting engagement with Orson Welles in the production of a Shakespearean historical play. He is identified in the United States for his acting in T. S. Eliot's "Murder in the Cathedral." 
The ALUMNUS is particularly pleased to report the return this semester of James Withey, A.B. '26, and A.M. '27. Prof. Withey resumes his work in the English department after a year's leave of absence caused by illness. 
Third of the new teachers is Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C, formerly of the French province of the Congregation. Father Putz, recently returned from France, has joined the department of History, and will teach the history of Western Europe. 
The second annual symposium of phi­losophy was held at Notre Dame Febru­ary 16 and 17, under the direction of Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C, '23, graduate head of the department of Philosophy. 
"Religion and Blodem Society" was the general theme. 
Dr. A. C. Pegis, of Fordham Univer­sity, gave the opening' address on "Nom­inalism and the Educational Ideals of a Catholic College." He was followed by Dr. Bernard J. MuUer-Thym of St. Louis University who spoke on "The Character of History in a Secularized Society." Friday afternoon. Rev. Jolm 
K. Ryan, D.D., of the Catholic Univer­sity of America, spoke on "Religion and Nationalism." The second address of the afternoon was delivered by Francis J. O'SIalley, '32, A.M. '33, assistant profes­sor of English at Notre Dame, titled "Modem Literature and the Religious .A.ttitude toward Life." 
In the evening, Dr. Robert Pollock, Fordham, formerly of the Notre Dame faculty, spoke on "St. Thomas and the Christian Cultural Dynamic." 
Saturday morning, Prof. Walter M. Horton, of the theology faculty of Ober­lin College, spoke on "The Present Posi­tion of Protestantism." He was followed by Father Ward, whose subject was "The Relevance of the Thomistic Con­ception of Religion." 
A roimd table discussion on the topic, "The Secularization of the Human Per­son," closed the symposium on Saturday afternoon. Participating in this round table were: Rev. Richard Gabel. De Sales College; Dr. E. Jordan, Butler University;. Rev. William H. Kane, Do­minican House of Studies, River Forest; Rev. Samuel C Kincheloe, The Chicago Theological Seminary; and Dr. Daniel 
C. O'Grady, University of Notre Dame. 
The symposium was again a success, rewarding those who prepared it and those who enjoyed it, and establishing itself as an annual contribution of great significance in the philosophical field. 
John Scannell, associate professor of physical education, was named a mem­ber of the executive committee, for a two-year term, of the Indiana Student Health Association at its December meeting in Lafayette. 
George Gillespie, New York City, na­tional president of the St. Vincent de Paul Society, was a guest on the campus recently, visiting the Notre Dame branch of the Society and being a luncheon guest of Rev. John Kelley, C.S.C. '13, director of the Notre Dame conference and spiritual director of the South Bend conferences. Joseph Mulqueen, retiring president of the campus conference, and Robert Marbach, new president, were on the host committee. 
Several faculty lectures are attracting favorable local attention. 
Dr. Arthur Haas of the department of Physics, is delivering a series of five lectures on the modem conception of the physical world. 
Before the South Bend Round Table recently. Prof. F. N. M. Brown, of the department of Aeronautical Engineering, gave a very interesting lecture on the history of flight. 
A recent announcement on government aid to students through N.Y.A. is of interest: 
The University of Notre Dame will receive §41,715 from the National Youth Administration fund to give jobs to 309 students this academic year. Notre Dame will get $4,635 a month. The University ranks behind Indiana U., and Purdue, in the size of its allotment. 
Under the plan, undergraduates re­ceive ?10 to §20 a month, and graduate students $20 to $30 a month. In the nation 104,379 persons are so employed. 
The University has just issued a Special Bulletin of the "Publications of the Faculty." Listed by Colleges, Notre Dame authors of books and magazine articles make a much more imposing showing than their campus modesty has indicated. Science, Engineering, and Arts and Letters are widely represented both in authors and media. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
» »


SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI 
BOB HELLRUNG is heading the 10­Year Reunion of the Class of 1930. That ought to be all the publicity necessary. Bob started at Notre Dame as a fresh­man athletic manager, and was manag­ing things from there on with increasing scope and efBciency, winding up as chair­man of the S.A.C. Meantime, as presi­dent of the Junior Class he had staged a super-Prom, and was the first Junior manager of a major sport. He brought in the Presidents Council and the Notre Dame ring. Bob has developed, with the same initiative, originality and in­telligence, a medical credit bureau in St. Louis which keeps him busy. He was president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis and is present District Gov-
Bob Hellrung 

Bob is a good example of Notre Dame fight. He was advised to leave school at one time, because of eye trouble, but in­sisted on staying. Later, by a tragic coincidence, his eyes were almost ruined by a chemical. Overcoming these handi­caps, and the business depression which greeted him when Notre Dame reluc­tantly lost him, he has not only made a job but made a business, which he has seen copied to the extent that he has or­ganized a national association of medical credit men of which he is the executive secretary. The Class of 1930 news this month reflects his zeal for Notre Dame. 
FEANKLYN HOCHREITER, beating the leadership which has brought Notre the 1935 drums for the coming June, is Dame men to the front in American the little man who was there. Not many Catholicity. Notre Dame events from '31 to '35 es­caped the Napoleon of the debating teams. Hoch coached interhall debate, kept the Wranglers at white heat, and was a three-stripe varsity debater. Pub­lications, Patricians, St. Vincent de Paul, the Indiana High School oratorical con­test, the Linnets, the Buffalo Club, bear historic imprints of the Hoch's aggres­sive leadership. Since he doifed the top hat of the grand marshal of the 1935 Commencement, he has studied at Co­lumbia, and in the Notre Dame graduate school of social work. He has worked in this field in Buffalo, in Michigan, in Louisiana, and is now studying at Chi­cago for his doctorate. 
The '35 notes this month carry some of the Hochreiter plans, reflecting the usual dynamic use of time. In addition to his secular activities, Frank has been outstanding for his promotion of Catho­lic Action. The Student Mission Cru­
Franklyn Hochreiter 

sade and the C.Y.O. have found in him 
In the limelight at this time of the year is always the distinguished 25-Year Reunion Class. The **Alumnus" is pleased to rvprint among Spotlight Alumni is this issue, the interesting picture of the 25-Year Class, 1915, taken in 1923 at their 10th. I. to r. seated: Jim Sanford, class sccretarj­and the Class spark plug; Bob Roach, Muscatine: Rev. Patrick Dolan, CS.C., Mission Band-leader; Lariy LaJoie, Detroit, and John McShane, Indianapolis. 1. to r. standing, Ray Kelly, national com­mander of the Legion nou-; Mark Duncan, who is pretty sick and needs your prayers: Al Ryan, alumni secretary then: Ray Eichenlaub, w*ho doesn't look any older (as do fen' of the others) after 15 years: Walter Clements of South Bend's legal royalty, and Leo Welch of Indianapolis. Time lias been unusually kind to this group, and the 25th in June should have most happy implications, for them and for their Classmates who won't miss this one. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
By Joseph S. Petritz, '32 


Director of Athletic Publicity 


ATHLETICS 
Scenario idea: "The Amazing Dr. Keogan." Or: "A Notre Dame Doctor's Odyssey." Or: "Diary of a Hoosier Doc­tor." Paul Muni could play the title i-ole, although they say Edward G. Rob­inson is doing right well as Dr. Ehrlich. How about: "Dr. Keogan's Magic Pel­let?" Autographed and ee\Tything, and distributed by Wilson-Western, (adv.) 
But enough of this double-talk. The idea is that as we greeted a New Year, plenty of the brothers, including Dr. George E. Keogan, who coaches the bas­ketball team, you know, were willing to settle for an even split on the remaining 13 games. With three to go at this writing, the Irish have won 9 out of 10 of those games. 
We have nothing to add to the Febru­ai-y issue account of the metamorphosis, the analysis of the individual traits of the players, and the review of the sea­son to Jan. 27. All we can offer this time are additional records made by this amazing two-team unit. 
Following the victories over Kentucky (52 to 47), Butler (55 to 39), and Penn­sylvania (55 to 35), the Irish avenged themselves for early season defeats by Novthwestem and Illinois, winning 56 to 27 from the Wildcats, and 58 to 40 from Illinois. As in the case of several other series, Notre Dame scored new all-time highs in these two -victories. The Irish total against Northwestern was the highest ever made by either team in the series, and it was also the most decisive victory ever scored by either team in 37 games. The same facts apply to the 14­game Illinois series. Illinois has never won at Notre Dame; Notre Dame has won only once at Illinois, and the win­ner has alternated in the last nine 
games. 
The five-game chain in which the team scored 52 or more points a game broke all Noti-e Dame precedent, the best pre­vious string of this type having gone to four games last season. 
Undefeated New York University broke a six-game streak and adminis­tered the only defeat in the last 10 starts, 52 to 43, at Madison Square Gar­den. It was N.Y.U.'s second victory in seven games of the series and its first since the inaugural. Each team made 18 field goals. The Violets made 16 out of 24 free throws, and Notre Dame made 7 out of 13. There were 20 fouls called on the Irish, and 10 blown on N.Y.U. Rumors of sabotage by the officials, with certain ugly though plausible ramifica­tions, floated back to the campus. And while we're no juvenile, it's enough for us that Notre Dame had 85 shots to New York's 57 . . . and still lost by nine points. It was just one of those nights apparently. 
Undismayed, our heroes picked off Toledo, 38 to 30, on the return trip from New York. And if you think that's nothing, note that Toledo had won 20 out of 25 games up to that time. 
Tom Conley's John Cari'oll team stepped out of its class to absorb a 46 to 27 defeat at Notre Dame, which was somewhat of an improvement over last year's 74 to 36 trimming. Tom's class­mates of '31 will be happy to know that the CarroUs led until about 10 minutes had been played, that they were without the sei-vices of Captain Ray McGorray, that they had played a game in Cleve­land the preceding night, and that they still showed unmistakable evidence of exposure to fine coaching. 
Last year it was the unhappy duty of these pages to report Marquette's 25­point victor}', 47 to 22, at Notre Dame, the worst beating a Keogan coached team has taken in nearly 17 full sea­sons. And alas! the Hilltoppers scored a new all-time high (for anybody) of 58 points, against Notre Dame's 50, in the return game to bring about the first defeat in Notre Dame history in which the Irish made as many as 50; the two-team total of 108 was only two below the record 110 m-.de (74 to 36) in the 1939 John CaiToll game, 
Marquette led or was tied for the lead for the first 11 minutes of this year's first game, but their 9 to 7 lead quickly changed to a 31 to 12 deficit, and the Irish breezed to an eventual 56 to 39 triumph, scoring their highest total of the series of 30 games. Coach Keogan could have eclipsed last year's mark of 58 points made by Marquette, but he used a total of 16 players, all but one of the men in uniform getting into play. 
N.Y.U. beat Notre Dame on Sobek's birthday. Butler won a 39 to 38 decision on Captain Ertel's natal day. These are the only tivo games Notre Dame has lost since Jan. 1, and if you hear of any hot high school prospects who were bom on Feb. 29, Dr. Keogan would be glad to know about them. 
Notre Dame took an 18 to 9 lead in the first 10 minutes, but then the game grew ragged and unsettled. Lacking a bellwether to calm matters, the Irish slipped back to 21-16 at the half. Butler forged ahead early in the second half, and it was a see-saw affair the rest of the way, with each team leading five times in the final period. 
The Butler game left the Irish vdth 13 victories in 19 starts and a chance of equalling last year's record of 15 vic­tories in 21 starts, with Marquette and Detroit left. 
Eddie Riska made 10 points to run his total to 220, better by seven points than the best mark of his boyhood hero, Ed (Moose) Krause, for a single season, Riska's 23 points against Michigan was also better than Krause's high of 22. Johnny Moir, of course, holds the records at 780 for three years, 290 for one sea­son, and 25 for one game. 
George Sobek, who missed the first Marquette and second Butler games with a torn knee ligament, was still second with 129, while Captain Ertel was close behind with 125. Ellis scored six at Butler to go over the 100 mark with 103. 
XOTRB DAME BASKETBAIX SCORES 
IS GASIES 
Notre Dame, 62; Kalamazoo, 34 
Notre Dame, 63; Valparaiso, 26 
Kotre Dame, 54 ; Cincinnati, 17 
Notre Dame, 51; Wisconsin, 33 
Michigan, 41: Notre Dame, 39 
So. California. 55; Notre Dame, 33 
Illinois, 42; Notre Dame, 29 
Northwestern, 47: Notre Dame, 37 
Notre Dame, 33; Syracuse, 29 
Notre Dame. 52; Kentucky. 47 
Notre ffame. 55; Butler. 39 
Notre Dame, 55; Pennsylvania. 35 
Notre Dame, 56; Northwestern, 27 
Notre Dame, 5S: Illinois, 40 
New York U., 52; Notre Dame, 43 
Notre Dame, 3S; Toledo, 30 
Notre Dame, 46: John Carroll, 27 
Notre Dame, 56; Marquette. 39 
Butler, 39; Notre Dame, 3S 

Mar. 2—^Marquette at Milwaukee Mar. 9—Detroit at Detroit 
Won 13; Lost 6 

TRACK 
We ask your indulgence for one year while the 1940 track team struggles through a killer of a schedule. Coach John P. Nicholson has probably the strongest freshman unit in Notre Dame history. The current team is below par, but not as weak as it looks right now. And the schedule, in keeping with the Notre Dame tradition of preferring to take a licking from a good team to ^\^n­ning from a weak one, makes the out­look dark. 
The Irish jumped off to a 57 2/3 to 37 1/3 victory over Michigan State, then lost, 63 to 41, to Marquette. Notre Dame was only moderately effective in the Illinois relays. 
REX ELLIS EDDIE RISEA 
Center Hish Scorer 

What's wrong? Nothing, except that the team wasn't in shape for these meets, even though it won from Michi­gan State. And why wasn't it in shape? No, this isn't a blast at "Nick," whose record ranks him among the best coaches in the profession. The reason is: re­serve strength is so lacking this year that "Nick" tried to bring his squad along slowly. He has had trouble in the past — as all coaches have — with shin splints, weak arches, pulled mus­cles and the like when he tried to bring a squad along fast. With reser\'es, such practice is not dangerous. 
But with only one outstanding man in most events, the squad might have been wrecked for the season by a wave of injuries, even minor ones. The loss of Captain Greg Rice has left the Irish without a star distance man. The loss of Bill Faymonville will be felt more keenly outdoors in the discus than in the indoor shot put. Keith O'Rourke, ace freshman high jumper of last season (he did 6:6 indoor) did not return to school. Bill Donnelly, letterman in the mile run, and Ed Beinor, weight star, were graduated. 
The difference between the Michigan State and the Marquette meets was in the dash and the hurdles. Against the Spartans, Notre Dame scored 25 out of a possible 27 points Jn these events. 
Against Marquette the Irish made 6 out of 27 in these three races. 
Here is how the squad shapes up, event by event: 
Dashes — Bob Saggau, star left half­back, has reached peak condition early. He won the 75 yards in 7.7 seconds against Michigan State, and he tied the all-time Notre Dame record of 6.2 sec­onds for the 60-yard dash against Mar­quette. He was third in the Illinois re­lays 75-yard event which was won in 
7.7 by Myron Piker of Northwestern. Bill Buenger, Steve Coughlin, Rube Mar­quardt, and Joe Prokop are other likely prospects, not yet in condition. 
Hurdles — Dave Reidy won the 75­yard highs and low at Jlichigan State, but couldn't come back against Mar­quette. That he is not in shape is indi­cated by the fact that he has been los­ing ground after the final hurdle — and that's where he won most of his indoor i-aces last year. Bob Lawrence in the highs, and George Schiewe and Joe Prokop, both sophomores, in the lows, will be effective later. 
440-yard dash — Joe Halpin is back, and he ran an estimated 49 seconds with the mile relay team at the Illinois relays. Ray Roy, sophomore prospect, is on a par with Halpin, although not as finely conditioned at this •ivriting. Lawrence, Schiewe, Ken Collins, and John Rogers are good enough to insure the Irish of mile relay strength. 
880-yard run — Curtis Hester, who did 1:54.4 outdoor last year, is doubling in the mile run, in which he can crack 
4:29. He was just coming into shape when a cold forced him to abstain from the Marquette meet. Joe Olbrys has done surprisingly well to date, as com­pared with his sophomore appearance last season; and both Collins and John Mack are coming along well. 
Mile run — Hester and Olbrys are the only possibilities on the horizon at this time. They will score in dual meets, but hardly in the larger meets. 
Two-mile run — John Martin, the best of the lot, got third behind a win­ning 10:06 in the Marquette meet. It must be tough to follow Rice. 
Shot put — The loss of Faymonville and Beinor would look serious ordinar­ily, but Sophomore Cliff Brosey (you can mark him down in your book as a right tackle star for the next two sea­sons, too) has already beaten their best indoor marks. He hasn't been under 48 feet in three meets. His best toss, against Marquette, was 49 feet % inch, as compared with Don Elser's all-time Notre Dame indoor record of 49:2-. Ed Sullivan, kid brother of the late Joe Sullivan, 1935 football captain-elect, has been close to 47 feet, and aptly-named Hercules Bereolos has come close to the 45-foot mark. A decade ago all three of them would be setting all-time Notre Dame records like mad. Now Bereolos is fortunate to get a place. He and Sullivan were sophomore guards last Fall. 
Pole vault — John Dean, a senior, carries the entire load. He hasn't car­ried it too well to date, although he is capable of 13 feet and may get that high yet this season. 
High jump — Captain Ted Leonas, who proved himself capable of 6:4^.4 indoor and 6:6 % outdoor in the Central Conference meets last year, has done 
6:2 twice this year, but he couldn't get started in the Illinois relays. Tom O'Reilly, senior who got up to six feet last year, his first year of track compe­tition, has been handicapped by a bad knee, but he may win his letter yet. 
Broad jump — Steve Juzwik, foot­baller sophomore; Captain Leonas, Prokop, Frank Sheets, and Bill Tucker are all out for this event, but George Meagher's records are safe. 
After the foregoing was written, the Irish dropped a 52 to 34 decision to In­diana at Bloomington. Notre Dame looked improved in this meet, buf didn't have enough guns. Had everyone come through with his peak performance, the Irish might have tied or won by a very narrow margin, but on all-around squad strength the Hoosiers deserved their victory. 
One of the highlights was Roy Coch­ran's world record in the 440-yard dash for the Hoosiers. He ran 48.3 as com­pared \\'ith the 48.9 mark set by Ray EUingwood of Chicago in 1935. Coch­ran's mark was made on a seven-lap-to­
"BED" OBERBRUNER MAX ERTEL 
Forward 
Captain - Center 

the-mile track. Alex Wilson's indoor record of 49.1, set in 1932, was made on Iowa's eight-lap track. 
Another feature was the shot put duel which went to Archie Harries of Indiana at 49 feet 5 inches. Cliff Brosey made a second place toss of 49 feet 3 inches, breaking Don Elser's all-time Notre Dame indoor record of 49 feet 2 inches. The former Indiana fieldhouse mark of 47 feet 1% inches was broken five times by each man. 
Dave Eeidy won the high hurdles, and John Dean won the pole vault. The only other Notre Dame victory was turned in by the mile relay in 3:25.9. 
Greg Rice, captain of the 1939 track team, ail-American at 5,000-meters, hold­er of the national collegiate outdoor two-mile mark, and many other records and championships, added the three-mile in­door record to his collection recently. 
Greg lapped everyone in the field ex­cept Don Lash and Walter Mehl, and 
almost lapped them to clip three-tenth of a second off Willie Ritola's 15-year-old mark in 13:55.9. 
Coach John Nicholson, under whom Eice has been training while working for a South Bend power company, has been conservative in his predictions of Rice's abilities, but he figures Greg can crack 13:50 for the distance if he tries. He ran his final half-mile in 2:11, and his final quarter in 59.5, which, Nick says, means he had plenty left and could have run to a stiffer schedule before going into his sprint. 
Rice's most remarkable race, however, was probably the 9:01.1 t\vo-mile he ran in the Millrose games in New York to finish behind Lash's 9:00.9. Rice had a heavy cold all week and was wheezing like Johnstown — but he turned in the fastest time of his career. He had beaten Lash shortly before in 9:01.7. 
Rice credits his time in these two races and in the A.A.TJ. three-mile rec­ord performance to the fact that the band went into the Victory March as he started his final sprint. 
Their next project is for a new two-mile record, bettering Lash's 8:58 indoor mark. Rice's schedule for this will be a 4:28 mile, 6:45 mile and a half, and a better-than-2:13 final half. 
In his three-mile record jaunt. Rice incidentally picked up the world two­and-a-half, an d two-and-three-quarter 
mile records unofficially. Since there was only one watch on him at each dis­tance these marks will not be recognized. 
Greg^ Rice 

GOLF 
Director of Athletics Elmer F. Lay-den has announced a 9-match 1940 Notre Dame golf schedule. The Irish will open with Purdue, Michigan, and Illinois, and will face Northwestern and Minnesota later in the season. 
Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C, coach of the golf team, has a nucleus of four out of eight 1939 lettermen, headed by Captain Walter Hagen, Jr., Detroit, and Sammy Neild, Central Falls, R. I., junior who set a William J. Burke-Notre Dame course record of 68, two under par, and equaled it later last season. John David, of Purdue, broke the record 
with a 66 in the state collegiate tourna­ment. 
Bill Schaller, Milwaukee, and Phil Donohue, Sioux City, Iowa, are 1939 lettermen. George Costello, Crystal Lake, 111., barely missed getting his mon­ogram. 
Chief graduation losses were Captain Tom Sheehan, who set a new national amateur tournament qualifying record of 139 last year; Chuck Bennett, Joe Corcoran, and Joe Stulb, all lettermen. 
Supplementing the returning letter­men are Bob Smith, Joliet, HI., basket­ball regular, and George Schreiber, Al­buquerque, N. Mex., juniors; Bob Bertsch, Maywood, HI., and Bob Cent­livre. Fort Wayne, Ind., seniors; and Milo Wolf, South Bend, Ind., and Wil­liam Wilson, Port Huron, Mich., soph­omores. 
While the team does not shape up as strong as last year's. Father Holderith hopes to develop it by initiating a round robin match and medal play schedule for team positions, starting April 1. The course will open, weather permitting, March 27. Lengthening of No. 17 into a par four has made the course a par 71 proposition. 
The schedule follows: 
Apr. 18—^Purdue at Notre Dame 
Apr. 22—^Michigan at Ann Arbor 
Apr. 27—Illinois at TJrbana 
May 2—Marquette at Notre Dame 
May 3—^Northwestern at Notre Dame 
May 11—Minnesota at Notre Dame 
May 13—Michi^n State at East Lansing 
May 17—Wayne U. at Detroit 
M.ny 18—Detroit U. at Detroit 
May 25 or June 1—State tournament at Earlbam 
June 24—National Collegiate A.A. at Manchester. 
Vermont 

FENCING 
Three victories and three defeats was the tally on the fencing team with three matches remaining as we galloped to press. The Irish won easily from De­troit, Northwestern, and Ohio State, finishing up against the Buckeyes with reserves in action to win, 15 to 12. It could have been 17 to 10 just as easily. 
One of the defeats was a 15 to 12 matter against Chicago's perennial Big Ten champions. In this match, Joe Smalley won three sabre and three epee bouts, or six in all for a new all-time Notre Dame record. Against Ohio State he suffered his first sabre defeat in nine bouts this year. His winning streak of 10 straight victories in sabre and epee was broken in his last battle of the day against the Buckeyes. 
Michigan State was responsible for the other two defeats, 10 to 7, at East Lan­sing, and 17 to 10, at Notre Dame. 
The record follows; 
Notre Dame, II ; Detroit. 6 Notre Dame. 14: Northwestern, 8 Michigan State, 10; Notre Dame, 7 Chicago, 15; Notre Dame, 12 Notre Dame, 15: Ohio State, 12 Michigan State, 17: Notre Dame, 10 
Mar. 1—Marquette at Milwaolcee 
Mar. 2—Wisconsin at Madison 
Mar. 16—Washington TJ. at St. Louis 




STUDENT NOTES 
John Betz Willmann, 31 years old, is the president and entire membership of the Williamsport, Pa., campus club. A transfer, after two years in Williams-port Dickinson Jtniior College, John, with a 90 average, is an outstanding journalism major, and in this, his second year on the "SCHOLASTIC", he is very Iiappily conducting that journal's popular "College Parade" column. He won his numeral as a pitcher last spriiig and hopes to be one of Jake Kline's regulars come April and May. After June he hopes to be a "regular" in some journa­listic job. Applicants for his services, please form a line on right. 
"CMON STUDENTS, LET'S DANCE!" 
A juke-box in the candy store, a soft radio in the caf, blaring loudspeakers in our rooms, and rhythm in our campus stride, but there was formal dancing to Busse shufflemusic as the frolickers assembled at the Palais Eoyale Ball­room for the Jimior Prom. Leading the promenade were General Chairman Larry Bums, Grosse Pointe, Mich,, and Class President Clarence Marquardt, Oak Park, 111. No, it was not a stag affair. Both men had dates—and nice ones, too. 
An article in Youth magazine caused Prefect of Religion Rev. Frank Gartland, C.S.C, to de-emphasize his condemnation of Jitter-bugs, as such. However, there is still much sentiment for "schmaltz" and "long-hair." An undercurring rumor has it that some students are known definitely to listen to the operas on what were football Saturdays in the fall. On the solid side, we can report that Karl Hunn, the ChilUcothe maestro, will lead his campus band at a gala St. Patrick's benefit dance in Ottawa, III., home town of clarinet man Robert Richardson and pianist Bob Sinon. 
F.D.R. AGAIN—SAY SENIORS While the country at large still won­ders whether Roosevelt will ask to be re­turned to the WTiite House for that un­precedented third term, our seniors straw-voted him in again by a three to one margin. The Scholastic surveyed 177 seniors—^103 registered Democrats and 74 Republican. Gamer and McNutt provided little competition for Roosevelt, but Tom Dewey had only a four-vote lead over Senator Vandenburg for the Republican nomination. Even the poli­
tics majors admitted, however, that the real issue will be decided when the par-
BV JOHN B. WILLMAN. "40 
ties hold their conventions this summer and the voters go to the polls in Novem­ber. 
FIRE WILL OUT 
And it did evict the residents of Carr­oll Hall for a one night holiday at Holy Cross Seminary where they spent a rest­ful night with the Brothers Pius and Donald in charge. It was quite the fire that saw fire engines going up the tra­ditional paths to the Golden Dome. It was as if a smouldering broke out into spontaneous combustion during the hectic exam period. 
 HIS FINEST STOOD WATCH 
First academic love of the late Father Wenninger was his College of Science, but transcending that was his -\cademy of Science comprising those students with high scholastic averages. To foster a greater concern and interst for the studies that would be the life work of his young men. Father Wenninger foun­ded the Academy of Science. To be a member was to iind your way into his heart. While the student body lost a faculty member, the Academy members mourned the death of a friend who was such because he brought out their best by constantly spurring, encouraging, and leading. At Father Wenninger's bier the Academy men stood solemn watch for the man who was to Notre Dame's science what Eockne was to our football —^both were men's men. 

REVERBERATIONS FROM THE OLD DAYS 
To be good a glee club must actively live up to every joyous connotation of its name. This year's N. D. group is doing just that. Already Prof. Pedtke's tuneful men have given rousing concerts to Mary Manse college, Toledo, Ohio; for the K. of C. at Indianapolis; and civic appearances at Portland and Rich­mond, Ind. • During Easter vacation the club will appear at Denver, Colo., on its first western tour. Graduate student Cle­tus Schonuner, St. Paul, Minn., has been an enthusiastic business manager. Fea­tured soloists are Anthony Donadio, Baltimore, Md., tenor; Donald Tiede­mann, baritone from Westfield, N. Y.; pianist and accompanist William Mooney, Waverly, Iowa; and Robert Bischoff, Cincinnati baritone. 
DESIGN FOR PROFIT 

Not only did Richard Whalen, Yonkers, N, Y., win a prize of ?50 in a design composition sponsored by the Beaux Arts Institute of Design, but his selection was an inspiration for syndicated columnist Charles DriscoU to reminisce about his friendship uith policeman Patrick Wha­len, Richard's father, before his heroic death on duty. Also mentioned for prize designs were John McHugh, Springfield, Ohio; Robert Nolan, Louisville, Ky.; Camiel Bracke, East Moline, 111.; John Carney, Des Moines, la.; William Ford, Janesville, Wis.; and George Supplitt, Riverside, 111. For these prizes our fu­ture architects solved problems of sea­shore restaurants, archaic temples of Athena, garden wall entrances, and air­plane beacons. 
CAPS, GOWNS, SPEECHES— 
WASHINGTON DAY 

Out of respect for Washington, feeling for a 96-year old tradition, and awe of disciplinary action, the class of '40 man­euvered the time-honored march from the Main Building to Washington Hall. There before a flag-draped background we heard the Washington Day Ode given by Robert Blake, Canton, Ohio. From the College of Law came William P. Mc-Vay, Bradford, Pa., to deliver a stimula­ting oration, "Washington—^His Problem and Ours." Class president Harold V. Boisvert, Waterloo, N. Y., made the flag presentation to Rev. President J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, who responded with a challenging speech to the seniors. The Hon. Samuel B. PettengUl concluded the speaking with a fine piece on the religi­ous background of "Washington and the Constitution." The Program was chair-manned by Norman Bourke, Waterville, 
N. Y., and the Symphony Orchestra in­terspersed the exercises with appropri­ate music. 
MEMORIAL 

Statistics show that some 800 students daily use the Rockne Memorial. Director Tommy Mills typifies the facilities in saying, "Rock dreamed of a place where everyone could work out,'" And work out the soft muscles and work off the soggy flesh do the frequenters who play handball, basketball, squash, and swim, box, wrestle, and bask imder the sun­lamp! If you can't go to Florida for the OTnter, go to the Memorial. Dan Canale, Memphis, Tenn., won the squash championship. A handball tournament is in progress, and interhall basketball goes on. Red Cross life saving courses are well attended. 
« <i
ALUMNI CLUBS 
BOSTON 
Fred C. Solari. '33. Center St., Pembroke. Mass., President; Paul McManus. *34, 32 Pearl SL , Dorchester. Mass., Secrctarj". 

I've seen a few of the toys lately. Joe Gart­land is a connoisseur of recruits, or something of that sort in the Catholic Alumni Sodality, and was around to sell me a bill of goods. (Though when I paid the dues, I was thinking tsk, tsk. this should go to Jim Armstrong.) It's a splendid organization, with most of the city's prominent Catholic laymen among the members. I saw Arthur Gartland shortly after he returned from Bishop O'Hara's consecration ceremonies. 
Jack Saunders is living in Boston while retain­ing an interest in the market which his brother (I believe) is managing in Lowell. He's gone into the sausage casing field here. Still single and devoting his time to keeping a paternal eye on Art McManmon, the billboard king. 
Frank Rcilly is walking the matrimonial tight rope, one of the unfortunate by-products of a good job. He's teaching. Patsy Tofuri is doing settlement house work in Cambridge. He's mar­ried and has a bambino. 
Frank Leahy has left these parts until another football season rolls around, but in the one sea­son that he's worked as B. C. head coach, he made a tremendous impression on every one who met him — not only as a highly capable coach, but personally. To realize this, all you had to do was read the sport pages in any paper. This year, if he repeats last year's performance, they'll want to canonize him. 
^Vhich is enough for now. Paul ^Td^Ianus. 

BUFFALO Lionel V. O. Smith. '33, 424 Main St., President; John H. Travers, Jr., '33, 191 North St, Sccretar>-. 
At a recent meeting, the following men were elected officers for the coming year: Lionel V. Smith, president: Frank J. Cass, vice-president: John H. Travers. Jr., secretary; John C Mc-Kendrj', Jr., treasurer. 
Also elected to our Board of Governors were, James Moulder, Norman Baker, Norman Ander­son, Michael Shcedy, Frank Kellner, Marty Ryan, William Cass. Carlos Frank and Gus Jenkins. 
One of our newer members. John C. McKcn­dry, Jr., has announced his engagement to Grace Maher of Buffalo. 
The picture, "Highlights of 1939." was shown Feb. 12 at Canisius College. Through the efforts of the Rev. £. J. Kolkmeyer, (Canisius) we were given a grand room in which to show these in­teresting movies. 
Michael Sheedj-, one of our most active mem­bers, secured the projector for us through the courtesy of the "William Hengerer department store. 
Members of the alumni who attended the show were Dr. Robert Bums. Marty Ryan, Jack Ma­gce, Thomas Condon, Jimmy Moulder, Li Smith. Marty Travers, Frank and Bill Cass. John La-Duca, Robert Moore, Carlos Frank. James Irwin, Jack McKendry, Norm Baker, Norm Anderson, Joseph Battaglia, Val Klaiber and others. 
TAe 7939-7940 Alumni Board 

Prof. William L. Benitz, '11, Notre Dame, Ind.  JSonorary  President  
Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., *17, Chicago, 111.  President  
Henry C. Wurzer, '25, Davenport, Iowa  ,..^irst  Vice-President  
Keene Fitzpatrick, 13, San Francisco, Calif.  Second  Vice-President  
James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, Ind  Secretary-Treasurer  
William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind.  —  Assistant  Secretary  
Joseph fir. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, N. J.  Director to 1940  
Francis H. McKeever, *03, Chicago, 111.  J)irector  to 1941  
Edward F. O'Toole, '25, Chicago, HI.  JDirector  to 194S  
John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich.  director  to 194S  
Ambrose A. O'Connell, '07, Washington, D.C.  ^x-Officio  Director  to 1940  

Everyone enjoyed the picture and all join in their sincerest thanks to you. 
We have made plans for our Easter Dance to be held here at the Hotel Statler, aiarch 23. Jack SIcKendry, Jr., has been appointed general chairman and has named the following commit­tees : Carl Nagel, Music; Jack Travers, Patrons; James Moulder. Reservations; Frank KcUnes, Decorations; Bill Measer, Suburban: Marty Travers. Frograms: William Cass, Jr., Arrange­ments ; Robert Moore, Door; John Kuhlman, Campus Representative. 
Efforts have been made to secure a name band and we feel confident of making this our most successful dance. 
Carlos Frank, '33, will act as our leader in arranging our monthly Communion. We have been working on this particular plan and hope to get full cooperation from our club members. Plans for Universal Night are still in their making. 
John H. Travers. Jr. 

CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) 
Lawrence T. O'Neill, '34, 393 Elk St., Albany. President; John F. Campbell, '26, 39 Van Buren St., Albany. Secretary. 

Since our Christmas dance, I have had little opportunity to pick up news of interest about our club members. But about that Christmas dance — our belated thanks to Chairman Sherb Hcr­rick for a job well done. And, of course, our old reliable Mike Lcding gets a big hand for his splendid cooperation. 
Even in this quiet season the Casazza brothers. Jack and Bill, manage to keep things moving. But that happens to be their business. Jack and Bill are associated with their father in the opera­tion of one of the largest and most popular truck­ing and moving concerns in this section. 
Good news ond yet bad news reached us shortly after January 1 when we learned that Jack Land, of Schenectady, was transferred by the General Electric Company to a more responsible position in Philadelphia. Jack, a past president of our club, leaves behind him a host of friends in the Capital District. Our tip to the Philadelphia Notre Dame Club — a new member for you, and one you can well be proud of. Congratulations, Jack, and good luck. 
Other prosperity notes — word comes to us of the progress being made by Jack Rainey with the Connors Paint Company, paint manufacturers of Troy. 
The usual custom, we believe, in trying to locate a business man is to call his office and then his club. But we found in the case of Eddie Eckert this procedure results in a man-sized job. Eddie belongs to so many clubs in this man's town. And then to think that I once pased up an opportunity to go in the plumbing and heating business! If you read this, Eddie, we're only kidding, because we know you are doing a swell job. 
Larry O'Neill was among those cheering for Notre Dame at the N.Y.U.-Notre Dame basketball game in New York, February 10. 
Plans for Universal Notre Dame Night are under way and details will be announced soon. John CampbcIL 
DAYTON 
Gaylord P. Haas, *29. 17 E. Bmce Ave., President; William L. Struck, *36, 708 Winters Bank Bide.. Secretary. 

Tuesday night, February 20, the Notre Dame Club of Dayton held its first annual dinner at the Biltmore Hotel. The guest s];>eaker for the evening was Ray Eidienlaub, former Notre Dame football star and present active alumni member, from Columbus, Ohio, whose talk of the old days and of the more recent developments on the cam­pus were greatly appreciated by all in attendance. 
Dan Shoavlin was called upon to say a few words and informed us of his having been placed on the nominating committee and gave us a few of his recollections of campus life. He urged every one to return for the annual reunions. stating that there had been very few that he missed. Joseph B. Blorphy, former president of the local club and graduate of 1911, was also asked to say a few words. He gave a very in­teresting account of campus life as a student during his time and also urged all, as he hopes to continue doing, to attend every year the an­nual reunion at Notre Dame. 
Gaylord Haas, our present president, announced that he will be leaving for Honolulu. Hawaii, sometime within the next month with his family, having been transferred there from Wright FSeld. 
Plans were discussed for the proposed Rockne Mass to be held in March. A committee in f:harEe of the airaneements was appointed consisting of James Trant, chairman, Chester Kline, Sylvester Bums, and Ridiard Bnrkholdcr. 
Following the business meeting moving pictures of the Notre Dame Commencement of last June, and moWng pictures of the highlights of last fall's football games were shown. 
Out of tou-n guests present were: Ray Eichen­

laub, Columbus, and Dan Shouvlin and Andrew 
Hcllmuth, Springfield. Fathers of present students 
present were: Thomas McLaughlin and Edward 
Hoyne. Several of the guests of members in at­
tendance were: Ambrose Doran, 'WiHiam Hough­
ton and Paul Houghton. Other members not 
already mentioned were also on hand: Harry 
Banjan, Walter Bauman, Robert Bolz, Ridiard 
Bnrkholdcr, Walter Bickerson, Edirard Grimes. 
Forster Hahnc. Thomas Kelly, Charles Rasor, 
Edmund Shea, William L. Struck, and James 
Trant. 
William L. Struck. 

FORT WAYNE 
Edward S. Sullivan, *24. 125 E. Suttenfield St. President; Maorice J. DcWald, *33, 2415 Hnburfus St., Secretary. 

Suppose you have wondered what has become of the Fort Wayne Notre Dame Club! As a mat­ter of fact we haven't had much actii-ity down here since our genial president. Ed S. Sullivan, *24, was married. 
Ibe undergraduate club held a most successful dance at Christmas time at which many alumni were present. 
All the club members were quite happy over the honor paid Kcr. John F. O'Hara, CS.C In fact, many alumni were present at his consecra­tion. Rt. Rev. MsRT. John Durham, cliancellor of our diocese, passed away recently in St. Joseph bo^ital here in Fort Waj-ne. Bishop O'Hara came from New York City to celebrate the Mass for him, as they were very intimate friends. 
Ernest J. Gargaro. '33, of Detroit, has been here since August. His firm, Gargaro Co., Inc., is completing a large sewer job. They have jnst been successful bidder en another project and Ernie intends to be located here probably the remainder of the year. Just last week he an­nounced his engagement to Miss Mary Katherine Hilker, a Fort Wayne girl. They intend to be married in the late spring. 
Maurice J. Dewald. 

HARRISBURG 
Robert M. Johnston, '33, Box 108, Presi­dent; Joseph R, FarrcII, '15, 32 N. 27th St, Camp Hill, Pa., Secretary. 

Our January meeting took the form of a dinner to which we invited the members of the local alumni club of Georgetown University. The at­tendance was about evenly divided between the two groups. The Georgetown boys were invited to take a leading part this year in promoting the annual dinner of the Catholic College Alumni in this vicinity. I*ast year Mt. S t Mary's alumni had this honor, and the preceding year the "Villa­nova alumni were our helpers. 
Tom Carfagno was the general chairman of the annual banquet held recently by McSherTytto\vn High School in honor of its football team. Tom did a fine job and topped it oft by having Rip Miller, of the Naval Academy's coaching staff, as the speaker of the evening. It is not necessary for me to say that Rip did a fine iob for Tom. Several of our more hungry club members took advantage of the opportunity of getting a full meal at Tom's expense as well as renewing old frienships at McSherrystown. 
We iust had a fine visit with one of our 54 ex-roommates of St Joe Hall days when R. J. Kelly (R.FJD. No. 3, Otsego. Mich., when we lived with him) came here in his oflttcial capacity as national commander of the American Le^on. Ray's sharp e>'e spotted us in the audience and he lost no time in getting us up to the platform with him, Ray's address to the Pennsylvania l>egion was one that any legionnaire or Notre Dame nlumnus could well be proud of. We expect to sec the commander next June — in St Joe Hall. 

Tom Go55, one of our former members, now residing in Philadelphia, was in town last month. 
Our last letter told you about the activities of 
the engineering members of our club. This time 
we want to tell you about our poIitically-incHned 
members, and let us assure you that we have the 
kind that can't be beat. Charlie Dougherty is 
still in charge of motor vehicle registration and 
i'l turning out efficient work for the Common­
wealth. Vince Snyder is holding down the Job 
that has to do with all the purchases for the 
state, and that carries no little responsibility. 
Bill Gorman, as previously reported, has an engi­
neering position in the Department of Health. 
Dr. Joseph L. Rafter is our state librarian. Harr>-
Breslin is doing engineering for the Turnpike. 
Pennsylvania's, ultra-modem highway. Frank 
Barbush is with the Department of Health. John 
Moriarly is in the Department of Revenue. Char­
lie Short is doing legal work for the Pennsylvania 
Labor Relations Board. It is said that Charlie 
has become a recognized authorib* on those legal 
matters pertaining to labor. All of these men 
arc not only good politicians, but they arc also 
good in their respective jobs — that's why they're 
here. 
Joe FarrcIL 

INDIANAPOLIS 
J. Albert Smith. '34, Fidelity Trust Co.. 123 
E. Market St, President; Elbert W. Ma­honcy, '26, 3936 Central Ave., Secretary. 

The Indianapolis alumni have just had the pleasure of meeting with the Most Rev. John F. O'Hara. C.S.C. Bishop O'Hara arrived here Sat­urday. Feb. 10, for a \'isit with his mother. Mrs. Ella C. O'Hara, his sisters and brother. 
At noon that Saturday, Bishop O'Hara was the honored guest at a luncheon of the Notre Dame club at the Indianapolis Athletic Club. He gave an inter&sting explanation of his new duties and told in detail of \-isits to the military and naval academies at West Point and Annapolis he had just made in connection with his work. 
Sunday morning Bishop O'Hara celebrated pon­tifical Mass at Saints Peter and Paul cathedral. With him at the altar were Fathers Gallagan. Bums and Marr from Notre Dame. Bishop O'Hara also distributed Holy Communion and, apart from the more elaborate setting and vest­ments, the alumni and old students who attended, many with their wives, were carried back in mem­orj' to the basement chapel and Father O'Hara, prefect of religion, in plain surplice and stole. 
We also enjoyed a visit from Father J. Hugh O'DonncU. who was in Indianapolis for Feb. 14 and met with the club at a luncheon held in his honor. 
Tom Malay. '26, was another recent visitor to Indianapolis. Tom has been out west for a num­ber of years, until called back to Gas City by the fatal illness of his mother last year. 
£1 Blahoney. 

KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) 
John J. O'Connor, *34, 4133 Herder St, Kansas City. Mo.. President; Nonoan H. Bowes. '33, 5525 Rockhill Road. Kansas City. Mo., Secretary. 

Raymond J. Kelly. '15. was the guest of honor February 22, of the Missouri Department of the American Legion at the largest civic luncheon in the 87 years' historj* of Kansas City, Missouri. In his capacity as national commander of the American Z<cgion, KcHy climaxed a full day of civic diplomacy, by delivering a 30-minute speech on a nationwide broadcast of 128 Mutual broad­casting stations. 
The luncheon itself, served to 2,5S7 diners, most likely set some sort of record for the largest af­fair of its kind ever held under one roof. In the balconies and crannies of the imposing new Mu­nicipal Auditorium some 12,000 other citizens lent ear to the plea for peace as made by Ray Kelly, legionnaire and Notre Dame man. 
Courtesy Kansas City Star 

The Kansas City Notre Dame Club mustered nigh unto a full roll for their distinguished fellow. Among the loyal alumni were: Jim Bray, Drcxel Duffy, The Higgins TVio, — Jim. Tom and Char­ley; Hal Quinlan. Tom Yarr. Emmctt Conkling, Judge Thomas V. Holland. Frank lucn, George Smith. George Rcinhardt. Maurice Carroll. Rome Dugan. Frank Tyler, Joe Reedy, Vince DcCourscy, Ed McGrath. Bob Pcndergast. Jack Donohuc. Dr. 
D. M. Nigro, Jack O'Connor. Paul Di Gio\*anni. Dan Foley, Joe Waller, Barney Quirk, Bill Mc­Carthy» and a host of others. 
KcUy urged a "rtMledication of American thought to the true liberalism;" and stressed the theme that "only when American youth ceases to revere the symbol of Mount Vernon will our countrj- die." , 
This celebration of this February 22, 1940 marked a high-tide for Notre Dame in the South­west ; and undoubtedly will touch off a needed spark for enthusiasm and useful and fruitful activity. 
Norman M. Bowes. 

LOS ANGELES 
Charles S. Gass, '30, 1225 Citizens National Bank Bldg., President; Martin B. Daly. ex. '2S, 201 Dcnslow Ave.. W. Los Angeles. Sec­retary*. 

Feb. 13 brought on the annual meeting of the Los Angeles branch of the Notre Dame alumni with its election of officers for the coming year. Tliere was the usual talk of bow to increase the interest and attendance at the meetings of the club and that resulted in Tom Licb and Leo Ward moving that the club try holding monthly meet­ings starting with Notre Dame Night in April. The motion was carried unanimously. Then there was the announcement of the annual retreat to be held at Sierra Madre l^Iarch 1 to 3. and about a third of those present pledged themselves to attend. Then the elections were held and re­sulted in the election of Charles Gass as president, James SrcCabe as vice-president, Alartin Daly as secretary, and Arthur Erra as treasurer. Follow­ing; a pleasant discussion of the affmrs of the club the meeting closed early. 
It was brought to my attention at the close of the meeting that there had been no report of the gathering last December when we had the pleasure of congratulatinir Bishop O'Hara on his appointment to the new position. The report was not sent due to the absence of Secretary Charles Kennedy, who was out of town on business that night. At this date it is hard to remember many details except that there was a good turnout and we had the added and unexpected pleasure of Father Stcincr*s presence. The speeches were short and good, and we had more news about what was going on back at school than we had heard since the team was out here a year ago last fall. About half the crowd had to get home at some reasonable hour, but the rest stayed around as long as Bishop 0*Hara would stay, and w^e were all sorry that it could not last longer. The date of the meeting, as far as I can remember, was Dec. 14 and then there was a Mass said by Bishop O'Hara. Sunday, Dec 17, vhich I was unable to attend but the reports were that it was fairly well attended. 
We are trying to get our membership up to d^.te and iind some of the stray Notre Dame men we know out here, so if you know any that are not getting notices of the club meetings you can tell them that the club files are in my care at 201 Denslow Ave., "W. Los Angeles, and the tele­phone is W. Los Angeles 39610- The office ad­dress is Formax Oil Co., 518 Chapman Bldg., 75S S. Broadway, and the telephone is Vandike 3S2T. but, as all the records are at home, I would prefer that they let me know there if it is con­venient. 
Marty Daly. 

MEMPHIS 
Donnell McCormack. *36, 195 E. Parkway, South, President; Bailey Walsh, ex. '27, Columbian Alutnal Tower, Secretary. 

The Big Ten Club held its annual "College Nite" party at the Peabody on February 2, and, as usual, the Notre Dame Club was included. We had quite a large attendance of Notre Dame men and had a tabic reserved for us. Everybody had a good time and the party was a big success. The Gymcana Club of the University of Illinois came do\vn and put on their show, which was really splendid. 
We are looking forward to having the partici­pation of some of the Notre Dame athletes at our Cotton Carnival, which will be held here in May. 
Bailey Walsh. 

NEW ORLEANS 
Charles dc la Vergne. '25, 1015 Maritime Bldg., President; Austin Boyle, '31, 621 Bourbon St., Secretary. 

The New Orleans club went into a state of meditation, almost amountine to hibernation, during Lent following the gaieties of Mardi Gras and the group's last meeting, a seafood stag. 
President Charles dc la Vcrgnc and many ot the other members battled influenza during Feb­ruary. The first March function was a luncheon at the St. Charles hotel on Monday, the 4th. 
Larry "Moon" Mnllins, coach here at Loyola o£ the South for three years, which has dropped intercollegiate football, left with Mrs. Mullins and their brood of five for Davenport, Iowa, where Larry has signed as head coach of St. Ambrose College. Moon and his cigar were prom, inent features of everj- club meeting, and the entire membership is sorry to see him leave, al­though wishing him the finest success in his new job. 
Marchy Schwartz was in town in February, and said he wasn't sure whether he would continue in coaching or enter business. He was visiting his father, Edward Schwartz, an honorary mem­ber of the New Orleans Club and one of its most faithful. 
Patrick E. Burke, *S8, our honorary president, still is active in the insurance business and Knights of Columbus work. Cyp and "SKnnie" Sporl are busier than ever with marine insurance during the war period. 
At the seafood stag. Lowell (Red) Dawson, head coach at Tulane University, was guest of honor and discussed candidly the bowl games, Notre Dame. Big Ten. and Southwestern Confer­ence football while everyone rolled up hrs sleeves and worked on the shrimp, boiled crabs and beer. The turnout was small, but the chatter, food arid drink were voted great by all present. Father O'Contiell. C.S.C.. sat in with us and helped Bill Drcux. Jules dc la Vergne. Jack McCarthy and Al Riley parry questions and answers with Daw­son. 
Emil "Judge" Tclfcl. once the firebrand of the "Scholastic," is furrowing more deeply that wrinkled brow these days reading copy on the Loyola weekly, spreading Telfelian terror as he prunes and trims the work of undergraduates. The charming Mrs. Telfel came here recently from Wisconsin. 
Fred Diffby, Jr., is selling advertising for the "Item-Tribune,'* Joe Drolla is peddling insurance*, and Jack McCarthy is with Holmes department store. Social note: Mr. and Mrs. McCarthy, Mr. and Mrs. IVIuIlins. and Mr. and Mrs. Dick Pfef­ferle were ma'^kers on a truck at Alardi Gras. rhey wore clown suits. 
Another visitor is Ray Flannigan, '27, of Ports­mouth, Ohio. Ray is writing here. Austin Boyle. 
NEW JERSEY 
Daniel J. O'Neill. '26, 184 N. Walnut St., East Orange. President; Harvey P. Rock­well, '34, 1202 Essex House. 104S Broad St . Newark. Secretary. 

Past Activities: 
This was a "catch-up" meeting where we suc­ceeded in handling most of the outstanding busi­ness and listening to several very interesting reports. 
TiiVo of these reports were in the black (finan­cially), the other w-as indeed a social success. However, the club was loud in the praise of the treasurer, Tom Traccy, and the chairmen. Jack Winberry and Harr>- Grattan, who submitted the reports. 
Win or lose, the basketball game was excellent. Our boys were up against very good material in 
N.Y.U. but they acquitted themselves very well. Commissioner Joseph M. ("Joe" to you) Byrne, Jr., was present, with Captain Wood of Army, and seemed to be well pleased with the fine show­ing of our team. We missed Joe Casasanta and his boys, for the band that played on the N.D. side was not sood and not even loud. 
Future Activities: In common with other clubs we anticipate Universal Notre Dame Night. Plans are under full steam, and you may look forward to bis things (we don't mean Tony Galento). 
President's Comer After some little persuasion our President, Dan O'Neill, submitted to the first of a series of inter\'iews. In this one he tells us the three 
reasons for the existence of the New - Jers^r Kotre Dame Alumni Association. 
1.
 "We try to interest the prosi)ective student in the Notre Dame way of college life by inform­ing him as to the advantages of choosins the University as a place to go and get the neces­sary education. Next, we send him off in the right direction throu ^ the medium of the Fresh­man Welcome Party. Finally, we try to keep him happy during his undergraduate days by staging the New Year's Eve Ball and the Annual Shore Day Outing. 

2.
 "The social side of alumni activity is spon­sored through the two functions listed above as well as through the monthly meetings, the ^ar d Hmes Dance, • trips to football or basketball games, the Universal Notre Dame Night aCfair, and other activities. 

3.
 "The business side of alumni activity is not stressed to any great extent at present. Perhaps the first evidence of this phase of alumni work can be classified as the activity sponsored nnder the Placement Committee." 


Harvey P. Rockwell, Jr. 

NEW YORK CITY 
Robert A. Hamilton, '28, 63 Wall St., President; Panl Maholchic, ex. *35, C.Y.O., 485 Madison Ave.. Secretary. 

Jack LavcHe, chief maestro and popular M.G. of the local club, heads the committee for the annual Knute K. Rockne Communion Mass and Breakfast on March 31. The Mass will be cele­brated at the liady Chapel of St. Patrick's Cathe­dral and a tentative commitment has been re­ceived from his Excellency, Bishop O'Hara to celebrate the Mass. Dick Reid, Laetare Medal­ist, and editor of the "Catholic News" is one of the principal speakers. In all probability, this event will be aired on the ether lanes. 
John V. Hinkel, New York "Times" corre­spondent, and John (Jack) Hoyt, barrister of note, took unto themselves brides last January 27. Bishop O'Hara presided at the nuptial Mass of John and Elizabeth Kelly Hinkel, while Jack and Joan Foley Hoyt maritalized at Albany to make theirs a Capital event. 
Mayor La Guardia is wondering where the monicker came from for his (Hty of New York. The local club is pressuring a change to have it called "Notre Dame Town." Bob Hamilton, the local prexy, will attempt anything once, without consulting the Knickerbocker Fathers — (not the amber fluid men). 
The monthly meetings of the local Notre Dame Club still attract large turn-outs. In all likeli­hood it's the variety plus of entertainment, to­gether with the refreshing refreshments, as well aj knockout programs. At the last setto. the boys listened to Paul Brennan. chief examiner of the City Civil Service Commission on the need of Catholic grads to take positions in the Cvn\ Service whether it be city, state, or federal. The high spot of the let-down part of the program was "Nickelodeon Night," with two hair-raisins cinema thrillers from the dim* and distant past 
— Pearl White in "Plunder" and "The Half-Back of Notre Dame" featuring Mack Sennett Girls. The gang is still feeling their ribs and ribbing the committee to stage more of these ribber meetings. 
The club is also justly proud of its members who are volunteering for C.Y.O. work in the Brooklyn diocese and the New York archdiocese. Approximately 50 men are devoting their spare time and talents to kids who need such exemplary influence of Notre Dame men. We sincerely hope that more Notre Dame men will take up the gauntlet and'continue to challenge other alumni to do their bit and work for the betterment of Christ's little ones. Sure it's work, but there is also a spiritual recompanse in doing something for others. All that is good in anyone comes out of this kind of charity. The future of Catho­licity depends on our success or failure with the present. That is why we're concerned with youth. The Church needs Notre Dame men and other college alumni to share the burden of the task. Let's hear from you and your friends. A job awaits you! 
Any visiting alumni are always welcome to at­tend our monthly get-togethers. 
Despite the loss to N.Y.U. the N.D. cagers played their hearts out to chalk up a victory at Madison Square Garden on February 10. We also were pleased to see so many at the best game of the year at the Garden. It was a thriller from the opening whistle to the last gong. We wonder what new trick Elmer Laj-dcn uncovered at the game. Houdini had nothing on Elmer as a prestidigitator. 
Paul J. Maholchic 
OKLAHOMA 
Joseph A. LaFortnne. ex. '18, National Bank of Tulsa Bidg., President; Carl J. Senger, *37, 1204 S. Cheyenne, Tulsa, Secretary. 
As the western section of the state is locked in %vith hea^Y snows and the rest of the state benefits from a heavy rain fall, it is time for another issue of the "Alumnus" to go to press. 
Thanks to you, George D. Kcrwin, '3S, for your kind letter. George is working for the United States Gypsum Ctimpany at Southard. Oklahoma. He is a chemical engineer and is learning a great deal about the manufacturing of plaster. George is a classmate of RitJiard Stucre, who is working with the Phillips Petroleum Company and at present is located at Phillips, Texas, where he is playing a big part in (he constructing of a mod­em gasoline plant. Yes, Dick is doing very well in helping to design and construct this new tyx>G gasoline plant. 
Charles Mi^amara. '38, is now working for a public accouning tirm. Arthur Young and Com­pany. Charles states he didn't know there were so many working hours in a day. The figures, he claims, aren't as good looking as many he has seen, but he does admit they do present some in­teresting problems. 
Pat Alalloy, '39, successfully passed his state bar examination and is now all set to enter the legal pracUce- Good luclc to you. Pat! 
Roy Barron, '37, of Detroit, spent a few days with Bob Siegfried, '37, in Tulsa before they ioumeyod South of the Border down Mexico way. They had a grand time and arrived home safe, but they did admit the senoritas are very nice. 
Alarion Blake has been elected deputy grand knight of Council 1107 of Tulsa. Marion is doing a grand job and has been given credit as being responsible for putting on one of the best classes ever conducted for new members. Bobby Sieg­fried, Frank Rcidy and Jim Rcidy were all mem­bers of this class and they all rode the goat like true knights. 
As you all know, April 15 is Universal Notre Dame Night, so please keep that date open on your social cafendar. Your president. J. A. La Fortune, is planning an outstanding event and program that evening as a local contribution to this great occasion. Kindly pass the word on and in the very near future you will be informed as to all particulars. 
Remember. I am expecting to bear from you, one and all. Carl J. Senger. 
PHILADELPHIA 
Thomas E. BjTne. Jr., '34. 302 Calvert Road, 
Merion, Pa., President; Conal J. Byrne, '36, 
631 Woodcrest Ave., Aiiimorc, Pa., Secretary. 
Our last mesting was ver>- well attended and enthusiasm was at a high pitch as plans w-cre formulated for this coming year's activities. Ed Bailey started the ball rolling from the floor, with Bill Castcllini, Cliff ProdchI, Mickey Dcndler, Jack Kcnncy. Br>"an Hayes, Harold Duke. Charley McKinncy, Jim Fogarty, Joe Mahoncy joining in. Johnny Nccson gave a very good report of his activities in selecting a site for our annual Uni­versal Notre Dnme Night banquet. Johnny, we understand, is quite the expert on food, so he should make a good chairman far our committee in charge of arrangements. 
It was decided to have the Rockne Memorial Mass at St. John's Church on South 13th Street, with breakfast at one of the nearby hotels. The latter place hasn't been decided upon as yet. We expect to have Father Farley, former chaplain of the eastern penitentiarj*. as celebrant of the Mass as he is now assistant rector at St. John's Father Farley has addressed the club on several occa­sions and is well liked by nil of us. 
AVe wish to extend our congratulations to Clipper Smith and Mrs. Smith on the birth of a daughter on Feb. 12, 
Dr. Frank Binder, formerly of Atlanta. Georgia, has just become a resident of our fair city. He is living at our new modernistic apartment, house at 2601 Parkw.iy. Dr. Bender attended Notre Dame same years ago for three yeare. The club extends him a hearty welcome. 
Philadelphia loses three of its coaches in the near future. All three changes came in the na­ture of a surprise to all of us. Clipper Smith and Vince McNally have resigned from Villanova to take up coaching duties at Loyola University in Los Angeles. Pat Conway has left West Phil­adelphia Catholic High to accept a coaching job in Cumberland, Maryland. The Philadelphia Club wishes every success in their new ventures. 
Walt Ridley is in charge of construction of the new addition to the Malvern-in-the-Hills Retreat House. John H. Necson was responsible for the drafting of the plans for its construction. 
Br}*an Hayes does his rcfereeing in tuxedo, we understand. Rumor has it that Bryan recently returned from the Naval Academy where he acted as referee for several ^\Testling l>outs. 
Conal J. Byrne. 
PHOENIX, ARIZ. 
E. J. Hilkert. '22, 402 Title & Trust Bldg.. President. 
Sam Locken recently reported to the club on his return to Phoenix from Notre Dame. During a'recent visit with Mrs. Locken to her former home in South Bend. Sam represented his class at the Bishop O'Hara consecration ceremonies. Sam is not employed hy the government any more. After investigating the prospects around the South Bend country, Sam decided he likes Arizona better. 
The Phoenix Arizona Club would like to hear from Tom Malay, one of the old stand-bys of the club until he disappeared in Madero, Calif. Any­one knowing his whereabouts, please notify the Phoenix Club. [Eds*, note: See Indianapolis news, this issue.] 
John Hilkert, the club president, is teaching Accountancy and Law again this year at Arizona State College at Tempe, besides carrying on his own practice in Phoenix. He ^vas elected vice-president of the Arizona Society of Public Ac­countants at the last annual state meeting. John also is the secretary to the Arizona State Board of Accountancy, having been appointed to that Board a few years ago by the late Governor B. B Moeurr. 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
William F. Bembrock. '35, 718 S. 8th St, President; William »L White. '21, 621 S. 7th St., Secretary. 

Thursday. Februarj- 1, members of the Club were the guests of State's Attorney Mike Scyfrit, of Carlinvine, Illinois. Mike treated us in Benid, about 50 miles south of Springfield, to an Italian dinner with all the trimmings. We enjoyed an evening which none of us will soon forget. Our thanks again to Mike! 
Jack King has been working in Kansas City for the past month, but expects to return to Springfield shortly. 
Raymond J. Kelly, national commander of the American Legion, led the pilgrimage to Lincoln's Tomb in Springfield on Lincoln's Birthday. 
Plans have been completed by the club to sponsor a dance on Easter Monday. March 25. The dance will be given at the K. of C. Hall from ten until one o'clock. Joe Hcnnebry and Jack Brcnnan are chairman and co-chairman of the general committee, which also includes Dr. Ed Bernard. Joe Pedrucci, Joe McGrath and Chuck Corcoran. 
Bill Bembrock. 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Frank Miles, ex. '22. 1405 E. McKinley. South Bend, President; Clarence Harding, '25, South Bend Tribune, South Bend. Sec­retary. 

A joint meeting of the alumni and the Villagers (local undergraduates)on February 26. paid trib­ute to the present administration of the Univer­sity, in the persons of Rev. J. Hugh O'Donncll. 
•16,
 and the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., *23. Father O'Donnell has been for years active in the promotion of the events of both the alumni and undergraduate programs. Father Cavanaugh is chaplain of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley this year. The meeting was in­formal, confined to the members of the two or­ganizations. 

On March 11, the Villagers will sponsor the rnnual civic testimonial banquet to the Notre Dame basketball team and Coach George Keogan. The Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley is cooperating with the undergraduates in this event. James R. Mechan, '34, is chairman of the alumni committee, assisted by Orson Dansman, 

•29,
 Carl Kemps, '27, John Probst, '26. John Lechner, '37. 


The banquet will be held in the Rotary Room of the Oliver. Local high school basketball coaches and teams will be guests of the Villagers. \Vilfrid Smith, of the Chicago "Tribune" sports staff, will sen*e as toastmaster. Sports writers and coaches -n-ill augment the program. 
ST, LOUIS 
Dr. Bcrtrand D. CouRhlin. *26, 7704 Country Club Court. President; Albert J. Ravarino. 
•35. 4C51 Shaw St.. Secretary. 

On Feb. 7. our club held its annual election and the following members \vere placed in office: Dr. Bertrand D. Coughlin. president. Dr. L. Vin­cent Gorrilla. vice-president: William JL O'Con­nor, treasurer: Albert J. Ravarino, secretary. 
The meeting was held again in the display room of the Westinghouse Electric Co. Besides an ideal seating arrangement there are exceptionally con­venient facilities, with refrigerator and stoves to facilitate serving of refreshments and hot foods. This is obtained through the courtesy of our friend, Dick Kclb*. '34, and the genial attending manager. 
At the meeting, besides election of the new of­ficers, a Scholarship Fund Board was created which M'ill have the services and advice of John Corley, Dr. Matt Wcis. Joe McGIynn, Bob Hcll­runc and Gene Strong-, 
Plans for a Communion-breakfast are now in the making-, which will be the first of this year's many activities. , 
Must also report that we have lost the powerful membership of John D. IROC, who has been trans­ferred to Kansas City. 
Al Ra^-arino. 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 
William B. Jones, '28, Dept. of Justice. Room 2632. President: Andrew Auth, *34, 405 Sixth St , S.W.» Secretary. 

The reijular monthly meetinB of the club was held Monday, February 5, at 8:30 P. M. at the Raleigh Hotel. 
Rev. Wilfred Parsons, S.J.. dean of the Gradu­ate School of Georgetown University, spoke at this ineelinff. The subject of his address was entitled "The Pope, The President and Peace." About four years ago Father Parsons spoke to this club, and many will remember that he was acclaimed as one of the finest speakers that the members had ever heard. 
This meeting was open to nil and proved very successful. The Board of Governors considered this meeting to be so worthwhile that it decided that as many as possible should profit by it. 
Rev, Vincent J. Mooney. C.S.C., director of Youth Bureau. National Catholic Welfare Con­ference, attended this meeting also and the mem­bers more than welcomed his attendance. 
A special meeting was held of the Board of Governors and officers of the club in order to discuss the possibilities for having a Universal Notre Damo Night on April 15, 1940. Ambrose 0*ConnclI has been made general chairman of this affair, to be assisted by Arthur Bergman and William B. Jones. Various committees and mem­bers of these committees will be announced at a future date. 
Andy Auth. 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
John J. Ryan, *26, 6343 Morrowfield Ave., Pittsburgh, President; J. Vincent Burke. Jr.. '33, 6938 Edgerton Ave., Pittsburgh, Sec­retarj*. 

There is not much to report in the way of activity on the Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania. ^Vhat w-ith Lent now in full swing, the activities are practically at a stand­still. However, we are still having our Hiurs­doy luncheons and the attendance is still good. 
Had a lone talk the other evening with two old-timers. Barney AIcQuaidc and Lawrence Mc­Cabe. They brought me quite up to date on some of the past history of Notre Dame. 
A number of the members have been ill re­cently with colds and the current epidemic of uu, but at this writing, I believe, all have suffi­ciently recovered to be up and around. 
AI Dicbold and the boys are still working hard on the scholarship proposition, and should have a definite announcement to make along this line within the next month. 
Talked to Gene Coyne recently and he informs me he has been snowbound for some time in the country, and he is considering buying himself a' pair of snowshoes. if you can imagine anybody with feet like Coyne*s needing a pair of snow­shoes. 
Vince Burke. 

CLUB SURVEY REVEALS REMARKABLE PROGRESS 
(Continued from Page 1-19) 
club programs, as Clubs. Evidence points to the participation, however, of many Notre Dame men in such activities under other auspices, to a fairly satis­factory degree. Obviously Notre Dame could gain much academic prestige from identity of the Clubs as such in these projects. 
The Clubs want more contacts with the campus, through representatives. Naturally the administration and the coaching staiF lead in popularity, but there is an encouraging suggestion of a Club welcome for any campus person or group. 
Application of Notre Dame spiritual training to local activities is still slow, but there is encouraging trend toward the utilization of Notre Dame men by the clergy and the Hierarchy in fact, in the many programs of Catholic Action seeking trained leadership. 
The successful Clubs are of course pointing their programs toward the larger group of younger men. This, in most instances, is very successful where the price of the programs is kept to a minimum. 
General conclusions point to a healthy progress in the Club work, undiminished during the recent economic upheavals. In 1908, there were 6 Notre Dame Clubs —New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Pitts­burgh, Portland (Ore.) and Dayton (0). Now there are 92 Clubs. The organiza­tion of these is basically sound. It has come largely from within the Club areas themselves. AVe have not sought to in­flate our Club system by artificial Club organizations and paper strength. 
Many imperfections of machinery, both within the Clubs and in the ability of the University and the Alumni Associa­tion to cooperate with the Clubs, exist. Time is rapidly mending most of them. 
In many fields of University and Asso­ciation activity, the Clubs form an in­tegral and a unique channel of action. 
Notre Dame spirit, that essential unity of all Notre Dame men, is the common denominator of the largest and the smallest Club. 
Leadership responsibility and atten­tion, and member interest, are, as in all organizations, indispensable to progress. 
Foresight and hard work and hardy pioneering have presented us a system of Clubs far beyond our relative status of numbers and organization. Let us not lose this benefit by indifference, but rather capitalize it by a continuation of the indomitable spirit of the men in the 92 communities whose loyalty, and whose willingness to sacrifice time, effort, and in too many instances, money, created this great Notre Dame alumni network. 
1937 LEGAL DIRECTORy 
(Additions and Changes) 
GEORGIA 

Allanla 
SCHRODER. William H., Jr.. A.B.. 35 1607 William-OHver Bldg. 
ILLINOIS 

Chicago 
BREEN. John M.. ex. 73 4750 Sheridan Road 
HUGHES, Arthur J., Ph.B.. •II. LUB, -17 Hughes and Swanstrom Suite 1507, II S. LaSalle Street 
Elgin BOYLE. James £., LL.B., 38 802 The Elgin Tower 
KENTUCKY 

Z.ouisVf7/e COSTELLO. James E, LLB.. '19 Kentucky Home Life Bldg. 
MASSACHUSETTS 

Boston 
SULLIVAN. Joseph P.. A.B., "22 53 State Street. Room 530 
MICHIGAN 

Flml 
ROTH. Stephen J.. Ph.B. For. Com.. 31 813 Genesee Bank Bldg. 
OHIO 

Ashlahula 
VETTEL. Louis W.. A.B, 37. LL.B.. 38 Office of Carey S. Sheldon Sheldon-Remick Bldg. 
Miamisburg 
WEAVER. Rei E.. LL.B, 38 
PENNSYLVANIA 

PUtsburgh 
SPINELLI. Chades J, Ph.B.Com.. 31 720 Grant Bldg. 
No legal directory has been published since 1937. Notre Dame lawyeis. subsequently prac­ticing or having new addresses should be listed in these monthly notices. Interested alumni should clip and file these changes with the Directory. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

» » ^
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made of the following engagements: 
Miss Bemadetfe Schumacher and Alden E. Lenhard, '27, of Mishawaka, Indiana. 
Miss Alary Elizabeth Mulligan and John SL Scanlan, '32, of Indianapolis. 
Miss Kathryn Marie Lynch and Claude "W. Tonrck. *35, of Berwyn, Illinois. 
Miss Mary Magdalene Herbert and George J. Foss, Jr., '35, of Chicago. 
Miss Evadna Louisa Shumaker and Jerome C Clacys, Jr„ '37, of South Bend. 
Miss Lena Giillo and John DiMatteo^ '38, of Dayton, Ohio. 
Marriages 
Miss Mary Ellen Allen and Victor G. Yawman, '26, were married, February 6, in Rochester, N. Y, 
The marriage of Miss Edith Ellen Hahenold and Leo R JkWntyre, *2S, took place, January 31, in Raleigh. N. C 
Miss Celia Grisey and John J. Brown, *31. were married, last August, in LaPorte, Ind. , 
Miss Alargarct Alice McKnight and Howard DcVault, '32, were married, January 20, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
tTie marriage of Miss Mary Elizabeth Schwein­fest and !FVof. Dominick J. Napolitano, *32, took place, January 29, in Pleasantville, N. Y. 
Miss Marion Therese Ryan and Benjamin B. Salvaty, '32, were married, February 3, in Our Lady Chapel, Kotre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Medora Grigsby and Grcffory (Salratore) Costa. Jr., '36, took place, February 15, in Alexandria. Va. 
Miss Eunice Johnson and Donald yU Draper, *36. were married, September 24, in Burlington, Kansas. 
Miss Catherine A. Vergura and Julius P . Rocca. '36, were married, February 4. in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. Philip M. Wade. '40, was best man. 
Miss Marian Bole and Lawrence E. Danbom, '37, were married on December 26. 
Miss Ruby Camcal and Louis L. Anderson, ex. '38, were married, in December, in Paducah, "Ky. 
Miss Hose Horvath and John S. Gonchcr, '38, were married, on September 2, in the Log Chapel. Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Bcatriz Salinas and Robert M. Bcnarides, 'Z9, took place, on Decem­ber 16. 
The marriage of Miss Z^ura Ellis Graff and Dennis L. DInccn, *39, took place, December 14. in Kittaning, Pa. 
Miss Dora Belle Lane and Thomas E. Foley, ex. *40, were married, February 3, in South Bend. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Baker. *23. announce the birth of a son. John David, on December 1, in Kalamazoo. Michigan. 
A daughter was bom to Prof, and Mrs. William F. Rocmer, Ph.D. '27, on January 27, in South Bend. 
Prof, and Mrs. Andrew T. Smithbcrger, A.M. '27, announce the birth of a daughter, on Janu­ary 19, in South Bend. 
A daughter, Mary Jean, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. WilUam K. Dwycr, '28, on Jimuary 27, in Milwaukee, ^^'ISConsin. 
Michael Morrissey. son of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph 
S. Morrissey, '28, Cincinnati, Ohio, celebrated his first birthday in February without ever having heea announced in the "Alumnus." Happy birth, da}', Mike, anybotr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jon R. Bcljon, '30, announce the birth of a son, John R., Jr., on February 11. in Cleveland. 
Mr. and Mrs. R. Zeno Staudt announce the birth of a son, Terry Fred, on February 4, in Canton, Ohio. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Peter J. Gallagher, '28, on January 22, in Freeland, Penn­sylvania. 
Dr. and Mrs. Henry B. Asman, '32, announce the birth of a daughter, Harriett Ann, on Janu­ary 22, in Louisville. 
A daughter, Ann Lee, was born to Mr. and Mrs. James K. Collins, *32, on January 28, in Dayton, Ohio. 
Dr. and Mrs. John F. Gary. '33, announce the birth of a son, William John, on February 20, in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin. 
A daughter, Martha Ann. was horn to Mr. and Mrs. Roland N. Dames. '33, on February 20, in Webster Groves, Missouri. 
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph E. Rogers, *S4, announce the birth of a son, Richard James, on February 4, in Los Angeles. 
A son, Charles Adrian, was bom to Dr. and Mrs. Edward A. Bried. '35. on November 29. in Burlington, Vermont. 
A daughter, Joan Marie, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Robert Kcnlinc, '35, on February 22, in Dubuque, Iowa. 
Deaths 
Thomas H. Bulla, 91 years old. a lifelong resi­dent of South Bend and a member of one of the city's pioneer families, died on January 30. Mr. Bulla was a Notre Dame student ^vithln the period from 1859 to 1867. 
The University and South Bend lost a devoted and valued friend vdth the death, on Feb. 10. of Dr. John B. Bcrteling, B.S. '89, M.S. '84, AM. 
'89, 80 years old, father of John F. Berteling. '08, and grandfather of John B. Berteling, '38. The latter two reside in Hamilton. Ontario. 
City health officer under three mayors in South Bend, Dr. Berteling was noted locally and throughout the Middle West as the sponsor of a model milk ordinance much copied in other communities. He was a physician and surjieon of rare skill and unceasing solicitude, a writer of note for medical journals and a public speaker widely in demand. He served two terms as presi­dent of the St, Joseph County (South Bend) Med­ical Society and one term as president of the Indiana State Medical Society. 
Born in Cincinnati, Dr. Berteling received his medical education in what is now the University of Cincinnati and practiced in that city until 1S8S, when he returned to South Bend. Here, in addition to maintaining n general practice, he was attending physician at Notre Dame and St. Mary's and, for 22 years, taught anatomy and physiology at Notre Dame. 
Humbly devoted to the service of the poor. Dr. Berteling was a pioneer member of the St. Vin­cent deFhul Society in South Bend and main­tained an active participation in the society until a short time before his death. Said Father Joseph Maguire, C.S.C., pastor of St. Patrick's Church. South Bend, in his funeral sermon: "He not only was willing, hut he was really eager, to go when­ever a Catholic pastor asked him look after the poor. . . . Only God knows how much of his skill he gave \vithQut any thought of recompense." 
Father Hugh O'Donnell. C.S.C., president of the University, and a group of other priests from the campus, were present to honor Dr. Berteling at his funeral. 
Patrick Henry Raschc. 75 years old. a Notre Dame student in 1879-80 and in 1881-82, was found dead in his cabin near Stanley, Idaho, late in December. Mr. Rasche had had a colorful career as an officer of a mining company in Utah, pro­spector, homesteader, cattle raiser, and trapper. He lived a solitary life in his laibin, seldom visit­ing the nearest community. 
Frederick E. Murphy, 67, a Notre Dame student betiveen 1889 and 18D3, publisher of the Min­neapolis "Tribune" and the Minneapolis "Times-Tribune," a director "of the Associated Press, and a leading advocate of the diversification of crops as an aid to agriculture, died in New York City on Feb. 14. 
President Roosevelt, by whose appointment Mr. Murphy, although a Republican. ser\-ed as chief American delegate to the World "Wheat Conference in Geneva and London in 1933, sent this message of condolence to Mrs. Murphy: 
"I have learned with deep regret of the be­reavement which has come to you with such crushing force. Pleace accept, for yourself and for all who mourn with you. an assurance of heart-felt sympathy, in which Mrs. Roosevelt joins me." 
Other messages of sympathy were received from numerous persons prominent in public life, in­cluding Secretary of State Cordell HulL 
In 1920, Mr. Murphy saw diversification as the answer to the argicultnral problem in the North­west. Agriculture was stricken by the post-War collapse and huge wheat surpluses. Mr. Murphy pointed to his Femco Farm, near Bredcenridgc, Minn., aa an example of what dairy diversification could do. He advocated well-bred livestock and I)oultry, as well as crop diversification, as aids to the farmers. With the assistance of New York bankers, he organized the Agricultural Credit Corporation, which lent money secured by mort­gages on livestock. This plan proved successful and later proved the inspiration for the Agricul­tural Credit Corporation in Canada. 

Surviving Mr. Murphy, a cousin of the late Charles Phillips, professor at Notre Dame, are his wife, a brother and three sisters. 
Brother Rodi, O.M. Cap., who, as Francis P. McManns, received his I<Ii.B. in 1896, died in Garrison. N. Y. on Jan. IS. He was 71 years old. For many years Brother Koch was connected with the Monastery Church of the Sacred Heart in Yonkers, N. Y, There he was close to his friend of many years. AVilliam A. Walsh, former mayor of Yonkers. Brother Koch was manager of the 1S95 football team at Notre Dame, of which Judge Walsh was a member. 
Matthew J. Donahoc. ex. '01. Jacksonville, 111., died on Dec. 16 after a long illness, according to word recently received from his wife. Captain and coach of the baseball team while he was at Notre Dame, Mr. Donahoe retained a devoted in­terest in Notre Dame all through his life. "Dur­ing the last year and a half of his final illness." his wife said, "the broadcasts of Notre Dame games were his greatest pleasures.*' 
A recent brief notice brought word of the death on May 11, 1939. of F. August Glcim. of Marfa. Texas, a student in 1911. 
Mother Eleanorc, C.S.a, M.S. '18. Ph.D. '23, one of the most brilliant and widely-known of the St. Mary's Sisters, and a former Summer School teacher at Notre Dame, died on Feb. 17 after a long illness. Mother Eleanore was par­ticularly distinguished as a writer in various fields of prose and verse and was the author of many books. She was a cousin of 1^'mothy P. '16. and Frank J. Galvin. '23. 
Word of the death of Theodore T. Hrubcc EJE. f '29, Perth Amboy. N. J., on Jan. 8, was kindly sent to the Alumni Office by John Keager, *29, 
• also of Perth Amboy. Ted had been ill for six months. Sun*iving him. are his wife and his mother. 
Edward H. Sherman, Fh.B. Com. '34, died in Los Angeles on Feb. 3 and was buried there, according, to word received from Edward C. Brown, *99, Helena. Mont., secretary of the Notre Dame Club of Montana, of which Ed had been president. Details about his death are , lacking despite the efforts of Bob Cahttl. '34, class secre­tary to get further information. 
William Marcus Madcl. '43, Plymouth. Ind., a freshman in the University, died on Feb. 1 in Plymouth as the result of a fall from a bobsled on which he was riding. 
Father John MacNamara, secretary of the 1890­99 classes, reminds the "Alumnus" that it has never officially noted the deaths of Dr. Austin O'Malley, LL.D. '95, Philadelphia, and William F. Sheehan, Litt.B. '98. whose latest address on the alumni records was Hancock. Mich. 
Joseph A. Rlangtn. ex. '19. Maplewood, N. J., formerly vice-president of the United Color and Pigment Co.. Newark, died on Feb. 12 at the age of 42. according to a clipping from the New York "Times." Sun-iving him are his wife, two sons, his parents, a brother and a sister. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to Carl Centlivre, ex. '09, upon the death of his wife; Joseph F. Oclcrich. ex. '09, upon the death of his father; Clarence E< Alanion, '22, upon the death of his brother; Thomas J. Licb. *23. upon the death of his wife; Ralph W. Bergman. *20, upon the death of his brother; Gerald Griffin. '29. upon the death of his mother; John T. Moran* '30. upon the death of his father; John Yelland. 
•30,
 upon the death of his brother; George Mar­tinet, '34, upon the death of his mother; William 

E.
 Gibson, *37. upon the death of his father; Nicholas Sutton, ex. MO. upon the death of his wife. 


Personals 
P. E. Burke, »88, 301 

Before 1890 Camp. New Orleans. La. 
Eugene Amorctti. of the class of '85, owner of the EA Kanch. Dubois. Wye, was in Detroit for medical attention within the past month, according 
to a note from the Michigan metropoUs. 
50-yEAR REUNION 
Class of 1890 May 31, June I and 2 

IfiOn OO ^^^-^' ^ MacNamara. '97. 
IW'W"77 Saint Joseph's Sanitarium, 
Mount Clemens. Michigan. 

Martin Kuntz, Jr., Dayton, Ohio, nephew of Peter and John Kuntz. Notre Dame students from 1394 to 1897, expects to enter the University as a freshman next fall. Martin, a letter from his father snys, is about to he graduated from Georgetown Prep, Garrett Park. Md.. 
1 0nA f\A Hobt. E. Proctor. *04. Monger 
ITUU-UI BnUding. Elkhart, Indiana. 
lOnC no ^^ - Thomas E. Burke. CS.C.. 
I7U3-U7 »07, Notre Dame, Indiana­
lOin ^^ - ^^-^ Moriarty. 1900 Euclid 
I 7 I U Ave. Cleveland. Ohio. 
101 1 ^^ ^ Steers. 16S6 First National Bank 
I'll Building. Chicago. Illinois. 
Art Hughes has just announced his association with Luther D. Swanstrom in the law partnership of Hughes and Swanstrom at 11 South La Salle St.. Chicago. 
"La Religion," Catholic newspaper of Caracas. Venezuela, recently carried an imposing tribute • to Bishop John P. O'Hara. The article paid a special compliment to Bishop O'Hara's accomplish­ments }ast summer as a leading member of the social welfare commission to Venezuela. 
1010 ^-^' Kaiser. 324 Fourth St . Pitts-
I 7 I iC hurgh. Pennsylvania. 
Donnelly McDonald was recently elected presi­dent of the Clearing House in Fort Waj-ne, Ind. 
V A V ^ Paul K. Byrne. University Library. 
I 7 I' S Notre Dame. Indiana. 
Frank H. Hayes. 642 Third Ave.» 

1914 
Chula Vista. California. 

|0|C JuBcs B^Smnford, 3725 Clinton Are., Bcrwn. Illinois. 
25-yEAR REUNION 
Class of 1915 May 31, June I and 2 

1916 Timothy P. Galvin. First Trust Build­
ing. Hammond, Indians. 

Recent information from the Oklahoma front reveals that Paul Sticelbcr. who joined the Army after his first, and only, year at Notre Dame, is now division manager of the Central States Power & Light Company, Oklahoma Building. Tulsa. 
f A^ 7 Edward J. BfcOsker, 104 So. Union 171/ St . Elgin, niinoia. 
An eastern scout reports that John Miller has "made a very fine connection with the Goodyear Rubber Co. and will be located at FVovidence, 
R.L" 
The follow*ing welcome bit is from Art HoEhes of Chicago: 
". , . While in Houston, I had the pleasure of spending almost the entire time of my two weeks with Brian S. Odem, who, you will recall, was graduated in the law class of 1917. ^Vhen this matter first arose in Houston, I associated Brian and his law partner, Douglas W. McGregor, with me as local counsel. McGregor is United States attorney in the southern district of Texas, and Brian is his first assistant. We were also all entertained at' the home of Bob French, who finished up at Notre Dame in 1925. Bob put on a real party and invited Emmctt Walters. 1916. and his wife over also. Emmett Walters is really becoming one of Jesse Jones* right hand men. and is one of the executive officers of the Hous­ton 'Chronicle.' which in my opinion is the best paper in town. We had several additional invi­tations to 'evenings out' hut we were so husy that it was impossible for us to take advantage of them on this trip. We worked practically every night until 10:00 or 11:00 o'clock and all day Sunday after Mass." 
John A. Lemmer, 1110 Eighth ATC* 1918 Cscanaba. Michigan. 
From John Lemmer: 
"Chariie Call can be reached at 225 Peterson, Hasbrouck Heights, N. J. He has been news­papering in the East for 21 years. Is that the longest stretch of ncwspapering of any graduate of the Notre Dame School of Journalism? Char­lie has a daughter who is a sophomore at the University of Indiana and a little son of 14 who weighs 212 and betters six feet. 
"This is to remind Dick Dunn to take time off soon to write so that' the '18 column will have something from the New England states. 
"It took 21 years to do it, so I was glad to get a letter from John Beuss. John moved to Fort Wayne last August after having lived in Indian­apolis, and writes that he is continuing to re­ceive a comprehensive education in the liberal arts with the Centlivre Brewing Corporation of Fort Wayne. 
"I now have hopes that letters from some of the other members of the class will soon be forthcoming. 
"Father Francis MoniRhan is pastor of St. Slary's Church in Isabel, South Dakota. He has been there 14 years. If you want any information about a seven-year famine. Father Monighan can give it, since it was in 1932 that they had their last crop in Isabel. However, .Father is cheerful about it all and is hoping for better things this year. 
"Dan KIcGIynn is corporation counsel for 'East St. Louis, III., and has been, for the past 16 years. He is also attorney for the 'East St. Louis Park District but during the years has also main­tained an office for private practice. Dan has two nephews studying law at Notre Dame." 
Qarence Bader, 650 Fierce Street, 

1919 Gary, Indiana. 
10^ n ^ ^ ^' ^B^> 1012 Black BIdff.. Los I TA U Aneeles. California. 
20-yEAR REUNION 
Class of 1920 May 31, June I and 2 
 W. Duffy, 1600 Terminal Tower, 

1921 Dan 
Cleveland, Ohio. 

lO^ O Gerald Ashe. 29 Lake Ave.. Hilton, I TZ<C New York. 
From Kid Ashe: 

"Judd Hyland has forsaken Penn Yan. N. Y., for New York City, where he is engaged in engineering business with his brother. The firm name cannot be recalled iust now. 
"A note from Eddie Anderson, Iowa's successful football coach, has been received- Eddie rejoices that the banquet season is about over now. He wishes to express his thanks to all of his old classmates . for their well \\-ishes in his new as­signment, and regrets that he can't see his old friends a bit oftcner, scattered as they are in all .«w:tions of the country. 
"Father George Fisdier, C.S.C,, w-as present at consecration ceremonies at Notre Dame wherein Father O'Hara was elevated to rank of bishop. 
"Senator David Worth Clark, of Idaho, becomes the senior U. S. Senator of that state by reason of the death of the late Senator Borah. Senator Dave was called upon to assist in arrangements for bringing the remains of Senator Borah back to Pocatello for burial. 
"Bob Phelan was in insurance business in East Orange. N. J., some time ago. If he is not there now, maybe be will read this notice, and put ns on the right track. 
"Reports have it that Eddie Byrne, of Natchez, is all aflutter over the big celebration his home city is contemplating this year. Eddie will be on hand twth extra special mint juleps for any of his old classmates who visit the Natchez cele­bration. 
"Inquiries are freqeuntly made for news of Ralph Coryn of Moline. III., also. Joe and Albin Rhomberg of Dubuque. We hope to have some news about these boys in an early issue. 
"The class of 1922 here wish to record their sorrow in the death of Father Wenninger. C.S.C., who began his teaching duties at Notre Dame about the time we enrolled as freshmen. Father Wenninger was prefect on the third floor of Badin Hall in the spring of 1919, and at that time became well known and well liked by most of us. We should remember him in our prayers 
— R. I. P." 
 H. Castner. 37 South Ave., Nev 

1923 Paul 
Canaan, Connccticnt. 
The People (of '23) 
vs. 

' Panl Castner (Class Sec.) State's Attorney: Mike Scyfrit Jury: The members of the Class Defendant: The Old Southpaw Complaint: "I am wondering if there is anything that can be done so that we can get some news in our column. I believe that the Class members will respond if some cilort is made to contact them.and I am sure that all of the fellows will appreciate hearing about each other. . . ." 
(Sig.) Michael F. Seyfrit State's Attorney ISIacoupin County Carlinville. 111. 

You have heard the State's case, part of it anyhow. You may return your verdict to Mike, to Paul, or to the Alumni Office. 
All the members of the class of '23 will have special sympathy for Tom Licb, whose wife died ver>' suddenly in Los Angeles and was buried in Faribault, Minn., on Jan. 2. Tom is in charge of the Federal Census for the fifteenth district of California. His address is 634 South Western Ave., Los Angeles. 
 F. Hayes, Wra. J. Pedrick and 

1924 J. Co., International Bldg:., Rockefeller Center, New York City. 
The editor's personal quarrel with January in Indiana wasn't helped at all by an enticing post­card from Key West, Fla. Louie Chaussce, De­troit, was the culprit. Said he: "Had wonderful luck fishing , . . weather has been great." (Sounds of gnashing of what Dr. Watt has left of the original editorial teeth!) 
p . Hurley, 2083 Brookdale Road, 

1925 John 
Tolnlo, OMo. 
15.yEAR REUNION 
Class of 1925 May 31, June I and 2 

From John Hurley: 
"The Class of *25 will have its 15th reunion on May 31, June 1, and 2. That's only 90 some odd days away. AVe must all help to make this the largest 15th class reunion in Notre Dame history. To do this, everyone must do his part by coming himself and talking others into 'getting on the bandwagon.' 
"If Jim Armstrong and I could call a commit­tee meeting in the south room of the Library, like we did in 1925, it would be easy. As this would be impractical. I am taking it upon myself to appoint a class reunion committee for the entire country. I hope these men ^vill contact all '25 men in their area or any they may meet or correspond with. Slnd out if they are coming and send me the list so we can publish the list in the next two issues of the 'Alumnus.* 
"I Irish each class memiber who knows he is coming would contact the committee member in his area at once and advise him that he will be coming to the greatest 15th reunion in Notre Dame history. In this way, the doubtful ones will get lonesome' and join the rest. Don't put off contacting each other. I'd like to hear Irota the committee by April 1, or sooner. 
Don Miller, 1628 Standard BIdg.. Cleveland. Jack Scallan, 4300 Lake Shore Drive. Chicago. Willard Jones, Jones Funeral Home, Dixon, 111.. Joe Fitzpatriclc, Florida Nafl Bank & Trust Co., Box 470, Jfiami, Fla., W. C. Hurley, Equitable Life Ins. Co., 201 2nd. Nat'l Bank Bldg., Saginaw, Mich., Tom Goss, 161G Walnut St, Philadelphia. Haro* Stuhldrcher, Director of Athletics. TJ. of Wise., Madison, Wis., Bob Howland, Missouri Pacific K. R., St. Louis, Noble Kizer, Director of Athletics. Purdue University, Lafayette. Ind.. George Sheehe, 422 Shetland BIdg.. South Bend. 
Bob Hurley, 34 Beaumont Place, Newark. Joe Toolen, 343 N. Delaware, Indianapolis, Anse Miller, Virginia Metal, Hoanoke. Va., Hon. Vin­cent Harrington, House Office BIdg., Washington, 
D. C , Lcn Hess, 224 Belvedere Dr., San Antonio, Texas, John Kilkenny. First National Bank Bldg., Pendleton, Ore., Charles de la Vcrgne, 1015 Mari­time B/dg., New Orleans, Eustace CuIIinan. 3086 Jackson St., San Francisco, Calif., Henrj- Wurzer, Kahl Investment Corp., Davenport, Iowa, Jim Armstrong, U.S.A., and the rest of the World. 
Here's a letter from Ralph Gladcn of Patton, Calif. I'll send Ralph's dollar to 'Poor Ben' at Notre Dame and have a Mass said for George Chao and his family, as it wouldn't do to send an odd dollar to China. Thanks, Ralph. 
" *I am sending that dollar now, although, be­cause of the necessity of forwarding the letter to roe, and an obvious "hold-up" at the other end, I received the appeal months after it supposedly had borne fruit, and was on its way to China. I hope you have a few other weaselskins to add to this one for our unfortunate classmate.' 
" 'I am formally notifying Jim Armstrong of my address out here, so that further communica­tions should reach me more promptb*. 
" 'He, Jim, asked that we enclose a darn few words about ourselves. I am a psychiatrist at Patton State Hospital, have been so for over a year. This is rounding out my specialty of brain stud}*, since I had four years of neurological residency, and. for four years w*as in charge of a hospital for feebleminded.* 
" 'I write monthly (almost) articles for "Dog World." am the proud o%vner of several champion Great Danes, but am quite isolated, at this hospi­tal, just now.' 
" 'Mrs. Gladen and I saw Hayes Fuller a few times in LJV. He's fine, or was, when last we saw him. He had two fine children. Our proud­est achievement thus far is our 16-month-old djiughter, Judith Ann.' 
" *My former roommate while in Chicago at Medical School, Eddie Anderson, has zoomed to the top quickly, because of the showing of his Iowa team this year. Let's hoi>e that his coming years will be as good. His Holy Cross teams were seldom beaten, so he must have something.' 
" 'We hope that you and all the Tolcdoans are enjoying prosperity and the best of health.* 
Ray Cunningham adds an ideal touch to the 15-year reunion with this note: "I am planning to be in South Bend in June and am brining along 'the movies we made at our reunion ten years ago. If there is anything else you plan to do to pep up the occasion, I will be glad to co­operate with you on it." 
There's a victim for you. Hurley! And with Cunningham offering free PICTURES, Scallan ought to offer free PULLMAN service to the class. 
^ 09 X ^smcs A. Ronan, 127 Dearborn St., I T^ O Chicago, Illinois. 
I09 7 Joseph M. Boland, Athletic Omce. I WS»M Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Prom Joe Boland: 
"We're not going to beat around any mulberry bushes on this one, all of you men of *27: it's going to he short, and to the point — if more news would be your pleasure, then get those letters of information into this, the cross-roads store, and we'll see that the other lads around the cracker-barrel get to it in good time. 
''Joe Benda, on a visit to Toledo, Ohio, recently, ran across none other than Walter A. Wilcox. 
now an attorney for the Community Traction Co. of that city. He's been with that same outfit since 1929, and sends giectinBS, via Bendn. to one and all who knew him under his 'nom de campus* of 'Potter* — particularly to Ed "White, one of his fellow attorneys now enlaced in insurance work in South Bend. "Wilcox claims he can still take "White over in any card pame the latter wants to name: and I thought those law>-ers spent all their time studying on the campus I Teh. — tch! 
"Tony Kraus, in the law business in Toledo also, with special interests in insurance and real es­tate, sends similar ereetinKs. Tony still keeps his fingers nimble on the ivory keyboards of any piano he happens to run across. He wants us to have his 'Alumnus* copy mailed to 1407 Vance St., Toledo, Ohio — and any other mail that mieht be forthcoming from this announcement. Re: the 'Alumnus,' we hope all dues are paid: y'know, we're on a 'pay-as-you-go* policy on this sheet, now. 
""We can't recall whether or not we gave proper notice to a letter received from John Brinkman. now teaching at Fenger High School, in Chicago. If not. consider it done: if so. repetition won't hurt John or you other *27ers who want to know what's going on and where. He must have to teach like the dickens, at that, because he tells us he has three boys of his own to handle, now. 
"Vince Goulct, tiny sprinter of track-team fame in our Golden Era, rambles through South Bend on regular trips with his sales activities for . . . (Dooley. you supply this, will you!" thanks) his company. You're welcome. 
"Joe Quinlan, who specializes, sorta in PBX work for the local telephone company, we see reg­ularly, at our South Bend edition of the Golden Cloves, met up with William 0. Brandenburg, a fellow-alphabetical scat-filler for Father Bolgcr's classes, along ^vith Brinkman, for your scrivener. 
"And we save this item for last: Bob Goodenow, who now answers to the title of 'Father Goode­now,' stopped ofE at N. D. on his way to St. Tgnatius, in Chicago, for the Lenten season. ' He finishes his many years of study with the Jesuits this June, then is expecting assignments of reg­ular Order work. He looks fine, says he feels bgrand, and wants to be remembered to one and all of '27. 
"With that, we end — knowing that it's slim we still can't apologize for news that doesn't come in. "We want to know where you are, what you're doing. — and I'm sure many other do, too. So drop a line to your scrivener . . . you know where. Happy Easter!" 
From 4540 Pico Blvd.. Los Angeles, BUI Clarke sends a contribution to the Alumni Association and pens the following note: "I get a 'boot' out of reading the 'Alumnus.* Joe Boland's poetry is fine. [Hear! Hear!] Jim Armstrong! Are you still picking on the scales? [Curses!] See Father O'Hara received much deser\*ed recognition. Walter Loshbaugh, '97, (father-in-law) gives me all the low-down on N. D. men living in South Bend. Seldom see any X. D. boys out here. . . . John Carberry. '28, still haunts the studios getting news. Jim Navarre, '29, is in the commerciat picture business." 
The "Alumnus" has just heard of the magnifi­cent honor accorded John Q. Carey, "probably the youngest chief executive of any large Ameri­can city." In other words, John is the new mayor of Toledo, Ohio, at the age of 34. Details and a picture of John will appear in a later isue of the "Alumnus." Meanwhile, Mayor, our best congratulations and best of luck in a tre­mendous 5ob! 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
109 0 ^^ ^ ^- Buckley, 908 E. Cedar St.. I T& O South Bend, Indiana. 
"It was surely pleasant to see you and Notre Dame last month, and, as you requested then and confirmed a few days ago by letter, I am glad to send along a line anent the doings of some of the *2S Class in this area. 
"To use the Army-Notre Dame week-end of last fall as a starting-ofT place, I had the good fortune at that time to see and visit with three of our old gang, to wit: Bill Jones. Jack Shccdy. and Jack Wingcrter. The first two were accom­panied by their charming wives but Jack W. and I, old matrimonial hold-outs that we are, although accompanied, were not escorting wives. Jones and Sheedy uttered n joint *Tsk, tsk,' and let it go at that. 
"(A couple of hours later.) At this juncture, I must relate that the quiet of my Centre Club room was disturbed by the ringing of my phone, and at once I learned of the arrival downstairs of our old comrade, whom I hadn't seen since our ten-yeatr reunion, John McMahon. Mac came up, looking as fit as he did a dozen years ago, and we reminisced over a few glasses of old fog for a fare-thee-well. Mac had to catch a late train 
for Pittsburgh (against my advice, however) in the midst of the worst storm of the season. 
"Classmate I see most frequently is Bob Hamil­ton, recently elected president of the Notre Dame Club of New York. Bob, happily married to a lovely girl, is a veritable human dynamo and the spark plug of the local club. 
"Bcmie Garbor dropped around tonight to get in on the I^Ici^Iahon reunion and gave me his per­mission to publish the big news gently: That the great event may take place this year, which means that he may t>e altar-bound In the near future with one of the nicest girls in all New York. Name of the girl is withheld until the nuptials, but she is known to the writer to be just per­fectly swell. 
"Chairman of our coming Rockne Communion Breakfast is genial Jack Lavelle. after-dinner speaker extraordinary. Turk Kelly, successful physical-ed teacher in a local high school, shows up at most of the club meetings. Ever-smiltng Snubbcr Murphy is living here at the Centre Club, husky, healthy, and happy. "Walt Layne, married and still in editorial work, is now living nearly half-w*ay out on Long Island. His erst­while roommate, Jim Conmey. is. as oft-mentioned in your column, the best dressed man in Wall Street, and indeed brightens by bis sartorial elegance the dark canyons of that ancient mar­ketplace. 
"Bill Cronin, domiciled with his charming wife and two fine youngsters, in the nation's tennis capital. Forest Hills, hasn't as yet displayed any flashy tennis strokes in his ping-pong, but he promises them in the offing. He expects to 'bike* me soon in that rough, tough game, but time will tell, to coin a phrase. 
"To be frank about my athletic activities. I should mention that Bud Callagy and his pretty wife, Betty, did trim my girl and me in tennis last summer. With all due respect to Bud, we considered that it was Betty's prowess which did the trick; we thought that Helen Wills was hit­ting *em back at us. Bud is engaged in utility law in Albany but vacations out on Long Island 
"To conclude this epistle, I shall mention that I am headed away from the closely-guarded bach­elor ranks held so ably (as far as I know) by the stalwart hold-outs, Igoe, Jack Wingerter, Turk Kelly, and company. I cannot give you a further 'flash' in this regard, Lou. I>ecau5e at this time no date has been set. More anon in the future, however." 
From Lon Buckley: "Thank you, Larry CalUney, for your notes lor the column. It seemed like old times to see Larry back on the campus last month for Biahop O'Hara' consecration. 
"In looking over the '28 'Dome'for prospects for a guest writer for next month, the thought oc­curred to me that our cless secretary, Joe Griffin, has not been burdened with secretarial work for the class since he wrote the minutes for our last class meeting in 192S. How about it, Joe? We will be looking for your copy by March 16." 
It ought to be told right here, in case you haven*t already read "Marriages" in this issue. that Sliss Bdith Rabenold and Leo Mclntyre were married in Raleigh, N. C. on Jan. 31 by Bishop Eugene J. McGuinness. Leo and his wife sent a postcard to the Alumni Office from St. Augustine.. Fla., where they were enjoying part of their honeymoon. (Jack Wingerter el al, please note.) 
Charlie Lynch is a candidate for nomination as a municipal court judge in Des Moines. The primaries are on March 12 and the election on March 25. 
Dr. Andy Boyle, peerless reunion chairman, has recently aroused much discussion by his excellent paper, "Some Practical Aspects of Analytical Chemistry." rend before the Lay Faculty Club of the College of Arts and Letters and the Catholic Forum of South Bend. The other, equally peer­less, chairman. Dr. WiUard Wagner, is expected to enter the arena soon. 
Henry Hasley. Fort Waj-ne barrister, presided at the Catholic Evidence Series lecture at which Dr. Francis E. McMahon, of Notre Dame, spoke on "Peace, the Tranquility of Order." Henry is also president of St- Jude's Holy Name Society in Fort Wayne. 
109 0 ^°^I>^ P' McKamara, Attorney Gen-
I T& T end Office, Indianapolis, Indiana. 
From Joe SIcNamara: 
"These days, immediately after Christmas, are the ones when, doe to the tie that binds, vigor is given to the old legal phrase laiow all men by these presents.* , 
And Now to Continue the Round Up: In lUlnois: 
"John A. Vaichnlis is presently engaged as an associate in Pharmacology at the Loyola Univer­sity School of Medicine. John, who now sports a B.S. an M.S. and a Ph.D. has been busy ever since he left the cinder walks on the old quad­rangle. In 1929, John was instructor in chemistry in' De LaSalle Institute, following which he was instructor in bacteriology at the University of South Dakota and later held the same position at the University of Dlinois, getting to become in­structor in Pharmacology at the University of Chicago and In 1959 taking his present position with Loyola University. John is married, has one child, and lives at 10455 South Wabash Ave­nue, Chicago. 111. . . . 
'Iklicluiel R. Lawler is an enthusiastic member of the newly formed Notre Dame Alumni of Chicago Glee Club which is composed of former members from school. Mike is married, has two girls for St. Mary's, and can be found at 1624 West 79th St , Chicago (Triangle 5654). . . , Robert B. Vogelwede presently holds the position of supervisor with the George Rossetter and Com­pany, Certified Public Accountants. After receiv­ing his B.C.S. degree from Notre Dame he at­tended the University of Illinois, and is now a full-fledged CJ».A. Before going with the George Rossetter Company, Bob held the position of-pay­roll clerk with the Northern Indiana Public Ser­vice Company at Hammond. Indiana, junior ac­countant with Haskins and Sells. Bob is married and has one child. He lives at 1957 E. 73rd Place, Chicago, end can be reached by 'phone at Dor. 1436. . . . 
"AHan J. Moore is practicinB law at 100 North I^aSalle Street, Chicago. Allan possesses a Ph.B. degree as -well as an LL-B. Up to now he has escaped the bonds of matrimony. His present home address is 7909 Lanjrley Avenue and his telephone is listed as Tri. 9339. It's leap year, girls! . . . C E. McDcrmott is a metallurgist su­pervising heat treating and is the possessor of a 
B.S. degree in chemical engineering. Mac is married and has one child. His home address is 7811 Kingston Avenue . . - The 'Jfid-Wcst Kes­tnurant News.' with ofTices at 111 "West Washing­ton Street, Chicago, is being very capably edited by Thomas A. Byan. Tom received his A.B. de­gree at the Univorsify of Kotrc Dame in 1929 and his J.D. degree at Northwestern University Law School in 1934. Tom is married and has one child and is presently residing at 7242 South East End Avenue. Chicago .. . At 2S24 Broad­way can be found Clarence T. Jans, who is the operator of a sen-ice station at that address, aarence lives at 7229 Rogers Avenue. He is married and has one child, a son. 'Nict,' who is in tmining for the White Sox of 1950 . . . Ever since leaving school Georec A. Brantigam has been a member of the famous law firm of Jarecki. Brautigam. Korzeneski and Kearney with offices at 111 "West "Washington Street. Chicago. George is married and can be found at 7401 South "Wabash Avenue. . . . 
"Father F. C Voctt is pastor in Wnrren. Illi­nois, at the present time. He recnived his A.B. degree at St. Benedict's College. Atchison, Kan­sas, and his M.A. degree at Noire Dame. Father Voett is commander of the American Legion post of "Warren and slate chaplain of the Ameri­can Legion department of Illinois . . , John A. Smith is a supervisor with the George Rossetter and Company and is also an accounting instructor at Lojrola University. A 'phone call to State 2734 will reach John nt his office rddross of 33 North LaSalle St.. Chicago. John is married .nnd has one child and lives at G214 North Oakley Avenue. , . . After graduating ^'lnce Carney became a partner in the men's clothing firm of Carney and Longenectcr. Bochelle, Illinois. Vince is also still doing iTiecial work in Gregorian chant for general choir work. He has recently married and is lix-ing at 546 South Second Street. Rochelle, IHinois. . . . 
"Frank Allen Smola is presently holding the position of principal of Roosevelt Unit in the Cicero. 111., elementary schools. Frank received his A.B. degree at Notre Dame, his A.M. degree at Northwestern University and has taken gradu­ate work at Yale and Chicago universities. Prank is married and is liring at 2501 57th Avenue. Cicero, and can be reached by telephone by call­ing Cicero 2398. . . . Ross P. CcCfalio is prac­ticing law with ofHces at 10 North Clark Street. Chicago. Ross is as yet unmarried, probably due to the fact that he has been too busy building up a flourishing law practice. .. . 
"It's Dr. Philip C Hemming, with offices at 491 Division Street, Elgin. Illinois. Phil is being kept very busy taking care of a flourishing private practice and is also executive health officer, Elgin, m. He has received his B.S. and M.D. degrees and has taken special training in 01)­stetrics at Lewis Memorial Hospital in Chicago. Phil is married and is li^'ing at 491 Division Street, Elgin, Illinois. , . . Raymond J. Angstcn is a partner in the firm of Angsten and Com­pany, insurance brokers, who have their offices at 175 "West Jackson Blvd., Chicago. Raymond obtained his Ph.B. in Commerce at Notre Dame and in 1930-31 took some additional study in in­surance law and salesmanship at Northwestern University. Ray is married and has one child . and is presently living at 7345 North Damen Ave., Chicago. . . . Charles V, Essro^er, whose business address is 316 S. Lasalle St., 'phone "Wab. 8744. is a registered representative with the 
J. S. Bach and Company. Charley is married and resides at 2222 East 70th Place. Chicago. . . . The Hotel Fort Armstrong is under the very capable managership of Joseph E. Whalcn. Joe is vice-president of the Tri-City Notre Dame Club, \-ice-ptcsident of the Rock Island Junior Chamber of Commerce, president of the Tri-Dty Hotels As­sociation as well as director of the Chamber of Commerce, Rock Island. HI, He Is married and has two charming children. .. . 
"Joseph G. Smietanka is a partner in the flour­ishing law firm of Smietanka, Conlon and Knaus. whose offices arc at 7 South Dearborn St.. Chi­cago. Joe is married and has one child. . . . The Borg "Warner Ser\-ice Parts Compnny is very fortunate in having for their credit manager Frank G. Hcnpel. Prank went with that company in 193G and has been doing a fine job ever since that time. He is married, has one child, and is living at 6930 Crandon Ave., Chicago. . . . Soon after graduating Robert M. Trotter became associ­ated with the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Com­pany as an engineer, and is still with them. "We understand that Bob has a very good position and is doing a very fine job of it. He is married and Is presently living at 4300 "West End Ave., Chi­cago. . . . 
"Tom S. Lawless, of 'Juggler' art fame, is with the W. T. Rawleigh Company, Freeport, 111., where he has the very nice position of art director. He has been with the Rawleigh Company since grad­uation. Tom Is married, has one child, and lives at 705 S. Liberty Ave.. Freeport. . . . The position of division trafilc engineer with the Illinois Bell Telephone Company is being ably taken care of by "Walter Mason. "Wally is especially interested in hearing about Karl jrartcrsfccfc, Elmo Sfoyer, Steve Durbin. and Bernard O'Leary. His address Is 1249 Thomdale Ave., Chicago, 'phone Long-beach 6484. . . . Leo S. Sdirall is with the Hiram Walker and Sons, Inc., as 'SfiH Operator.' Zco played pro baseball nntil 1932 and since that time has been with Hiram "Walker's. Incidentally, he is manager of the "Walker baseball team. Leo is married and lives at 404 S. University Ave., Peoria, m. . . . Victor Hart is an engineer, with an ofi"lce at 205 W. "Wacker Drive. Chicago. His 
•phone is listed as State 1250. "Vic obtained his 
A.B. degree at Notre Dame and an M.B.A. at Harvard. Up to now he is unmarried. — but an unverified rumor suggests that wedding bells may ring out 'most any day. . . . Frank E. Siudzinski holds the position of state editor of the Chicago 'Daily News.' After graduating Frank took grad­uate work at Columbia University. He is married and has one child. Frank's business address is 400 TV. Madison St., and his home address is 6515 Palatine Ave., Chicago. . . . 
"Jack Kcams is holding the very good position of superintendent and engineer of the Cephas "Williams Construction Company, Streator, HI. Jack obtained his B.S. degree In civil engineering and has been employed as an engineer with sev­eral construction companies prior to the time he took his present position. He Is married and has two fine children. Jack is presently living at 211 llth St., Streator. Very shortly after gradu­ating in 1929 William Wilbur took the position of assistant general bridge inspector with the C. & N."W. railway, which position he still holds. Bill is unmarried to date. He is living at 1725 Wilson Ave., Chicago. . . . We received the following in­teresting letter from John W. Dorgan, who is married and has three children, and presently living at 1488 Scott Ave., "WInnetka, Dl. . . . 
" 'You know, Joe, Frank Doan, (who Is now living in "Wilmette with bis good wife and three daughters) and I are now just about able to ask you to make mention of the 1929-1934 Indoor game held at the reunion. We wanted to mention it before but were overwhelmed at the sad sight of grown men of the Class of '34 openly crying on the Badin Quad. It is not a pretty sight. Per^ haps we should play them next year to give them a chance to even the series.' 
" 'That memorable game recalls another short anecdote. Bobby Hughes, the Cincy flash, played a bang up game that day against '34 and that night he made many weird and wild bets regard­ing the Reds in the World Series. Please ask Mr. Hughes to emerge from under the seats In Crosley Field, Tell him the Yanks are gone — tell him it was just a bad dream — tell him any­thing you want, but for me tell him to please remit one dollar and seventeen cents.' 
"Father Norbert Spitzmcsser* O.S.B., Is now and has since 1936 held the position of superin­tendent of Marmion Military Academy. Father Norbert received his B.A. degree at St. Melnrad's Seminary and his M.A. degree at Noire Dame. From 1930-1D33 he was headmaster at Jasper Academy — from 1933-1936 the headmaster at Marmion, the Fox Valley prep school for boys. He can be reached by 'phone at 8681, Aurora, 111., and Is living at 631 N. Stale St., Aurora. . . . Roland G. Schlager can be reached by 'phone at his home address of 335 Watrcs Place, Elgin, 111., by calling Elgin 539R. Roland received his J.D. degree from Loyola University of Chicago in 1933 and in August, 1939. completed a year's work at Northern Illinois State Teacher's College, DeKalb, 
111. He has been doing credit and collection work for both an Illinois oil concern as well as a large finance company. Up to this writing he is still unmarried. . . . 
In Iowa: 
"So far we've had only one report from Iowa and that Is from Carl Dc Bagglo. Carl has ob­tained his JJ) . degree and is really making a name for himself-in his community as an "up and coming' young lawyer. He Is also crowding in the job of being president of the Hardin County bar association, secretary of the Eldorado Com­munity Club as well as chairman, Eldora Chapter of the Red Cross. Carl Is married and can be reached by 'phone merely by calling 53 in Eldora. Iowa. . . . 
In T^Iissouri: 
"The position of secretary-administrator of the St. Louis City Social Security Commission Is being nicely held down by John K. Rowland. John ob­tained his Ph.B. in Commerce as well as credits toward master's in Social Work, St. Louis Uni­versity School of Social Work. He Is married and has one child and his home address Is 5843 Gates St., St. Louis. Mo. . . . Robert Bracckel Is in the architectural business for himself, and is doing very well. Bob Is living at East Seventh and Dagoesne St., Joplln, Mo. — 'phone 9053-R-L. No. he Is not married, — as yet. . . . John J. Dona­hue, whose home address Is 1115 East Armour, Kansas City, Mo., Is In the K. C. District Oclce — sales engineering department of the Allis-Chalmers Mfg. Company, with an office at 1410 Waldheim Bldg., Kansas City. John obtained his B.S.E.E. degree at Notre Dame, later taking a post-gradu­ate course in Education at Marquette In 1932 and also took some postgraduate work in Education at the University of "Wisconsin in 1935. John was married to the very charming Miss Elizabeth V. Lyons on December 2S, 1939. Congratulations. John! 
In Wisconsin: 
"It's President Reynold A. Dcningcr of the Canncr's Seed Corporation in Beaver Dam, Wis. Since leaving school Reynold was assistant-man­ager as well as secretary and treasurer of the Canner's Seed Corporation. He is living at Beaver Dam, ^VIs., and can be reached by 'phone by calling 1319. . . . Daniel J. Mc^allcy is being kept very busy these days with his duties of at­torney — legislative counsel of the Milwaukee Association of Commerce as well as manager of the Public Aitairs of Milwaukee Association of Commerce. So far he is one of the very few who has eluded the bonds of matrimony. .. . A. 
P. Galdabtni is general manager of the Manu­facturers Box Company of Milwaukee. He is married and has two very nice children. He is residing at G15 E. Day Ave.. Whitefish Bay, "Wis., and his *phone number is Edg. 5459. . . . E. J. Galdabini is assistant sales manager of the Per­fex Corporation in Milwaukee. He received his 
B.S. in E.E. degree. As yet he is unmarried — but Cupid is (I've heard) just around the corner — his home address is 2951 N. Farwell Ave., — telephone Lakeside 2940. .. . , 
"The very good position of professor of Eco­nomics and Sociology at Superior State Teacher's College, Superior. "Wis., is being very ably han­dled by Lewis J. Carey. Lewis has a BA. degree from Wcsleyan University, an H.A. from North­western University, and a Ph.D. from Notre Dame. He is married and has three charming children. He is living at 1726'/^ Hughitt Ave.. Superior, Wis., with his telephone number listed as — 1836. . . . The Allis-Chalmers Company is very well represented in their legal department by William E. Broim. Bill obtained his B.A. degree, aIso_ an LL.B., and practiced law privately for two years after leaving school, then became asso­ciated with the Allis-Chalmers Company, where he is at the present time. Bill is married and has a family of five children. His present home address is 774S Sfary EHen Place, Wauwatosa, IVIs., — 
•phone Bluemound 7322- . . . John R. Bro^vn can be found at his business address of 205 6th St.. Racine, Wis., where he is busily engaged in prac­ticing law for himself. He is married and has two children. He is living at 933 Lake Ave., Racine, Wis." 
A recent postcard says that Dr. Eugene J. Carlin's address is Box 265, Moorcroft. Wyo. 
1930 Robert Hellmng. Humboldt Building, 
St. Louis, MissonrL 
IO-YEAR REUNION 
Class of 1930 May 31, June I and 2 

From Bob Hellrung: 
" 'The Spirit of St. Louis* " wishes you all a Happy Easter and a very successful reunion party on the campus at Notre Dame June 1. (Only 6S days after Easter, or 2 months and 1 week, so get bu ^ and make your arrangements to be there). 
"Your sub-secretary now has a 'foreign corre­spondent* in the person of Don Malloy, who is traveling the middle western and southern states for the Falstaff Brewing Company of St. Louis. Don is very obliging and liberal with his pen and paper. He sends me his itinerary, designating the states and cities which he is about to cover, and I send him n list of Thirties to Jook up. 
"Don writes from Oklahoma City, after visiting the Voys in the state of Kansas: 
" 'Here are some news Hashes from your foreign correspondent on the disappearing Thirties.' 
" 'Talked to Ed Sciter in Kansas City and found he was doing a bang up job in social service work for the Catholic Welfare Bureau. He got in on the ground floor soon after leaving school. He*s married, has one child, and made no cracks about what was to come. He has seen Jim Bray several times and says Jim is on the Kansas City police force. Sorry, but he could not tell me what exact capacity.' 
" 'Also talked to Joe Reedy, who is doing the best ever for himself on the Kansas City "Star." He's handling some sales work in the advertising department and sees even greater progress ahead. He's married .. . mentioned nothing about chil­dren . . . and who am I to get personal ?' 
" 'I rearranged my route from Kansas City to Oklahoma to talk to that old high Jumper, Dan Welchons, in Ottawa. Kansas. Was lucky to catch him in. and foimd out he's selling the h. . . out of the good people of Ottawa — using the grocery line as his means to that end. He promised to write you other lurid details, so I didn't press him on the subject of marriage, offspring, etc He gets the "works" if he doesn't write you!' 
" 'Finally got hold of Jim Burke here in Okla­homa City. He's heading his own company in real estate and property management, and tells me the gods have been very kind. He's married, has a sub-deb a year and a half old, which is doing all right.' 
" 'Will write you in a few days when I know my next assignment. Have enjoyed acting as Slugger No. 1 and would like to continue giving service. If that's agreeable, count on it.* 
" 'Am hoping to head for St. Louis soon and would appreciate your starting to observe the available "talent." (Meaning feminine talent, for which St. Louis is famous). Am anxious to "swing" again, and the HcIIrung combination sounds good to me. Regards to Marie.' 
"We heard from our roving reporter again. He missed the opportunity of swinging with St. Louis society, but he picked a good spot to observe talent- Here is what he writes from New Or­leans : , 
" 'Should be at the Hotel Jung in New Orleans by this week-end. That should be a swell place for one of your lists, if you can name who and where. Will probably travel through Texas, Mis­sissippi. Louisiana, and possibly Arkansas. All you have to do is to say the word. . . . I'm willing!* , 
" 'How about the Nowerys, Bill jNIiUer, John Dubuisson and so on. This should be a good chance to nail them.' 
" 'Keep in there pitching for the folding dough. I'll hope to hear from you.' 
"Congratulations, Don, and many thanks for your cooperation. What we need is more travel­ing salesmen and traveling auditors . . . and a few G-men to round up the boys of 1930. 
"If our Southern correspondent has any luck, you s'hould read, in the next edition, the news and scandal about such fellows as : John Bitter and Ed Conroy of Son Antonio, Jim Favret of New Orleans, Burl Boykin of Beaumont. Teras. William Elmer Cassidy of Bogalusa. Louisiana, Charles Ycager Derby of Laredo, Texas, John Francis Dubuisson of Opclousas. Louisiana. Henry Horka and AHc Martzcl of Shreveport. Pat Mc-Cusker of Forney, Texas, Leonard Nalty of Baton Rouge, Jack Noweo' of Houston, Jim Walsh of Dallas, George Pope of Bunkie, Louisiana, and Bill MiUer and Joe Palermo of Vicksburg, Mis­sissippi. 
"We expected valentines from some of you boys and girls who read this article regularly. It is our own fault that we were disappointed, however, because, by mistake we asked for Easter greetings in our last edition. Well, we're still holding you to the Easter card, with news about yourself and family written on the back. 
"Good tidings came in from Cleveland just the other day from that co-composer of 'My Prom Sweetheart* who signs his name *Jon' Beljon. You remember him. He was a student of Com­merce, but a master musician, member of the Glee Club, Band and University Orchestra. Jon writes jubilantly: 
" *My first two children were girls . . . ages 3 and 1%, respectively. Now Comes a Boy I Age one day . . . Weight 8% pounds . . . Bom yes­terday. Guess I'll have to slow down a bit now.' 
" 'Regarding my activities .. . am mixing-xay livelihood as a musician and politician. That is. I was recently elected to the official family of the musicians* union here in Cleveland. I was also a candidate for the Cleveland School Board.* 
" 'Am attending Western Reserve University in the evenings, working for a master's degree in music Have been there about three and a half years and expect to finish in another year or so.' 
" 'Also am otganist — choirmaster — teacher, etc, at Our Lady of Peace Church, and if you are wondering- what I do with my spare time . . . there isn't any.' 
"We can see that you don't have time to get into any trouble, Jon Congratulations to you and Mrs. Beljon. and best wishes for the new baby boy, who. with a little tutoring at home, should be a member of the class of 1960. Don't slow down yet. because you still don't have enough to make up a choir or a decent orchestra. 
Pat Conway has resigned as athletic director and football coach of West Philadelphia Catholic High School to return to his former position, at La Salle High Scohol. Cumberland, Md. 
Together with his contribution to the Alumni Association. Gus Bondi, Indianapolis, sends word that he will be on deck for the 10th in June. 
And Patsy Hastings, operator of a hotel and restaurant business in Clinton. Mass.. sent the same welcome word about June, with the same sort of generous contribution. Patsy says: ". . , John F. Burke. '29, is doing well teaching in Clinton High School. His wife just gave birth to twins. Edward Philbin, ex. '28, is still man­ager of the Philbin Real Esate and Coal Co. John T. Burke is working on unemployment for the Federal Government. Martin Salmon, *2S. is operating a tailor shop with his brother." 
Jack Folks, credit manager of the Nassau Suf­folk Lumber & Supply (3orp., Amity\-ille, Long Island, discussed credit control on Jan. 24 before 500 members of the Northeastern Retail Lnm­bcrmens Association at their annual convention. Jack sends particular regards to the gang of '30. 
"And now to the wives of Thirties, (if there are any who read this article) . . . How would you like to see your husband*s biography in print? It's very simple . . . Just mail us the box top of any breakfast cereal, any cake flour, or any soap flakes . . . print your full name neatly on the back, together with a 100 word biography of your husband and family. Pm sure that some of you could write a book and a hundred words if yon had time. 
"The Bureau of Missing Persons has asked us to request that you communicate with the writer at once if you have seen or heard of, or liave any information on the following: who are not re­ceiving the 'Alumnus* because their mail has been returned 'unclaimed.' 
Howard Thomas Abrams. A.B., Chester Morales Ashman, Fh.B. Com., Daniel Barton, A.B., Her­bert Francis Bess, A.B., Claude G. Bowers. LL.D., Joseph E. Cogan, B.SJtf.E., Edward Daniel Con­nor, A.B., Robert Miller Dinkel. A-B., Thomas Joseph Donovan. B.S., Charles Joseph EicbkofT, A.B., George Edw. Erwin, LL.B., John Harvey Gauthier, B.C.S. 
Paul Reeves Irvin. A.B., Robert Cornelius Kelly, A-B., Dnane Maurice MiUer, PhB. Com., Charles Francis Monahan, A.B., Howard Michael O'Prey, A.B.. John Joseph Quinn. Ph.B. For. Com., James Meagher SchafTer, B.S.M.E., William Harold Shan­non, B.C.S., Jackson Lewis Sigler. Ph.B. For. Com., Edw. Siegel Smith, B.S., Denis Joseph Swenie. A.B., Lionel G. Theisscn, Ph.B. Com. 
"If j-ou sec any of them, tell them to send me an Easter Card. 
"Belated conffratulations are extended by the class of 1930 to Bishop O'Hara and Father Hugh O'DonnclI upon their new appointments. Bfay God continue to bless their efforts and achieve­ments. The new vice-president of the Univer­sity, Father John Cavanaugh, also has our sin­cere best wishes. 
"Bouquets are being sent herewith to Mrs. Chuck Rohr, a member of the Ladies Auxiliary of the Cleveland Club, and Jcrrj- Reidy of the Cleveland Club, for their activities on behalf of the Christmas Dance and the annual Retreat, re­spectively, in Cleveland. (Incidentally, both were outstanding successes.) 
"Bouquets are also in order for Andy Aman. who is active with the Notre Dame Club of Dayton. 
"The Thirties of New York City are giving a good account of themselves. Warren Fogcl was re-elected vice-president of the Notre Dame Club, and Dick Donoghue and Tim Toomcy are members of the Board for 1940 .. . an orchid to each of them. 
"Did we tell you that Gerry McKay is secretary of the N. D .Club of the Twin Cities, Minneap­olis and St. Paul? . . . And that Jim Malloy is in the news again as president of the Notre Dame Club of West Vir^nia — a verj- active organization ? 
"As a final note we are happy to announce a ten dollar (§10.00) cash prize for the best sug­gestion of a contest or game for the'flcunion pro­gram. Jim Armstrong and Bill Dooley will be the judges, but their decisions will not be final. They will -select two of the best suggestions of­fered, and the actual success of the event in June, win determine the big winner. Only one prize is offered — but here is your chance to 'Make Ex­penses* for the big week-end. 
"What is your suggestion?" 
 Bcrgan. 838 E. Colfax Avenne. 
South Bend, Indiana. From John Bcrgan: 
1931 John 
"Since few replies were received from our appeal for news letter that was mailed early in the year we shall just go on reporting news at hand. Sometime ago it was the purpose of the writer to have some current note on each member of the class or men associated with it in each issue. Letters were sent to various members for assistance but few replies were received. 
''Billy Sullivan, who has lived in Miami this past winter, has joined the Detroit Tigers* base­ball team for the 1940 season. Bill is working hard for the regular catcher's berth. Tom Ashe is now advertising manager for a machinery com­pany in Los Angeles. His new address is 3819 Santa Ana St., South Gate, Calif. Tom occa­sionally sees Norm Hcrwit around Los Angeles and is already making plans to entertain for the 1940 U.S.C. game next December. Harold Bennett is general accountant for the Gulf Refining Com­pany's Mishawaka plant. Hoirard Thornton re­cently opened a general insurance agency in the same city. George VIk has resigned as backfield coach at the University of Tulsa to devote his entire time to the oil business. Herb Perry is an en^neer for the Southern Utilities Company at Birmingham and often returns to his old home town at Natchez. Dick Brccn has recently re­ceived an important promotion in the legal depart­ment of the Lumbermans Mutual Casualty Insur­ance company in Chicago. Dick is not the only barrister in his family, as his wife is also a member of the Cook County Bar Association. 
"A wedding of the early spring will be that of Miss Mildred Clements and Johnny Dorschcl in Rochester, N. Y. Congratulations! John is in diarge of new business for the Associates Dis­count Company. Seems as though the *31 bache­lors are diminishing year by year, 
•*Larrj- Mullins and his family are moving back to the Middle West from the deep South, of New Orleans. Larry is the new football coach of S t Ambrose College. Davenport, Iowa. His lat­est coaching position culminates a stay of three years at Loyola of the South, where football was discontinued this year. Tom Conlcy looked as spry as ever when he appeared with his John Carroll Universib' basketball team on the cam­pus, Feb. 17. Joe Munizzo has opened his own law office in Chicago after a four-year tenure in the office of the attorney general of the state of Illinois. Joe is one of the few remaining Windy City bachelors. The twins from Tampa, Barris­ters Mike and Matt O'Brien are enjoying a very profitable legal business but had a hard time sell­ing Florida to their northern friends this year because of the unprecedented cold there these past few months. Dan Clark, South Bend's leading restauranteur, was recently elected vice-president of the Northern Indiana Restaurant Association. Charlie Cashman, the Northern Ontario gold miner, spent a few days in South Bend and stated that all gold is where you find it, if you find it. Tony SchroJncr, the old athletic equipment mana­ger, is nearly a Kenutcky cuhnel by this time as he is with the Frankfort Distilling company in I^uisville. Mart Dowling, of Rochester, N. Y., vice-president of the Atlantic Stamping Company, has recently perfected a novel milk container and soon will place it on the market." 
Leo Kletzly sends his contribution to the Asso­ciation with Some fine news from Maplewood Ave., 
R. F. D. No. . 'Wheeling. W. Va.: "The Leo Kletzly's now have a recruit for St. Mary's as Mary Marceline arrived on Nov. 26 last. The boys for N. D. are now three and four years old, and are coming along fine . . . the new home we built last fall .. . I am managing the Hadom Motor Express, one of the largest in West Vir­ginia. .. . I had a rather serious sick spell in December, so remember me in your prayers. I will remember you and all the men of Notre Dame. 
"I see Jim Beltz (Scott Lumber Co.). Tom Howley (\Vheeling Dollar Savings & Trust Co.), 
W. N. Hogan (W. N .Hogan, Inc., General Elec­tric distributor), John Emmcrt (Warwood Arma­ture Repair Co.), Bill Mitsch (Wheeling Steel Corp.), George Sargus (Dry Goods Co.), Russell Rickus (Zanitz Bros. Grocery Co.) around town quite often. Most of the N. D. men are Knights of Columbus and thus we get together often." 
Clarence Leo Tacckcns Is a coach and instruc­tor in St. Matthew High School, Flint, Mich., and does some insurance agenting in addition, according to recent word from the Flint front. 
With his financial remembrance of the Alumni Association. Red Wells sent the~ following inspir­ing note: "Tell John Bergan hello. I am in the wholesale beer business in Nashville, Tenn.; home address is 103 19th Ave., S. Will be glad to see any of my old 'buddies* from Notre Dame any time they're passing through. The 'Athens of the South' can guarantee them a good bottle of beer anyway." 
1 090 Herbert Giorgio, 9005 188th Street, I TO A HoUis, L. I., New York. 
John E. Ryan is still insurancing with the Connecticut Life, Woodward Building, Washing­ton, D. C. 
John R, Voss, Har\-ey, 111,, writes that the December "Alumnus" credits him with a job in the F.B.I. John R. says that John D. Voss should have received this credit. Excuse it, please, gen­tlemen. 
1099 Donald Wise. 110 Pleasant Street, I T J o Joliet, nilnols. 
(At the suggestion of Don Wise and the invita­tion of the Alumni Office, Eddie Moriarty hereby and herewith takes over the '33 man's burden as class secretary. By personality, inclination, news­paper training — on the Chicago "Tiines" — and location in an enthusiastic Notre Dame cen­ter. Eddie, now a Detroit insurance man, is ideally equipped for the job. He'll click in a large way in every issue if you other '33ers give him the right support. Thanks to Den. and rolling drums for the entrance of , . . Eddie Moriarty.—Eds.) From Eddie Moriarty: 
"Finally managed to wrap two fingers around the torch thrown to us from Don Wise via Bill Doolcy during the holidays and will try to record 
•what *33 news has come our way in the past few weeks. We're attempting the stint deep in the hills of ole Kentuck! — So — if what follows is corny, it's up to you fellows in the four comers to come through with several sterling contribu­tions, and thus doll up this column in the manner to which it should become accustomed. There's no reason why we should ever draw a void, and if each individual *33er will take it upon himself to pick up the chatter in his respective locale, there should almost be a running account of the activities of even* man in the class as each suc­ceeding issue of the 'Alumnus* rolls off the presses. 

"Most active influence on '33 characters during the past few months seems to have been that little pink man with the big bow and candy-tipped arrows. For those of you who haven't heard, we'll lead oft with a real bombshell. . . . Dick Meade, the friendly Seattle apple-grower, succumbed to those dart last summer, thus prov­ing that no man is invulnerable. . . , Now we won't even be mildly surprised to hear that Leo Cummings and Rahbi Lj-nch have followed suit. . . . George Bcaudin was another to marry last summer, and recently moved into an apartment in Evanston. . . . George is still with Kroydon Golf Co., covering the flatlands west of Chicago. . . . Norm Duke was married just before the Purdue game last fall . , , and is practicing law in I^Porte. . . . Joe Joyce's wedding was a De­troit event of Feb. 3, while our old 'left-hander,* John (Rosie) O'Grady, was married to Joe's sister, Mary, in Wilmette in January. . . . 
"At the last Detroit Club meeting word reached us that Ernie Gargaro is engaged to a Fort Wayne girl. . . . Ernie wound up his tasks in Memphis after being there almost long enough to acquire a southern accent and has been located in Fort Wayne ever since. .. . A late flash announces the birth of a fine boy to the Bob Powells. . , . Bob and his wife enjoyed a European trip last summer, docking in London just after the war began and the almost immediate return voyage was no picnic. . . . They sailed from the same port and at the same hour as the Athenia, only to stop at a French port to load cars, causing a four-hour delay which probably spared them the fate visited on the Athenia's passengers. .. . It was a baby girl that S. Clause Storke left at the Fred Beck­lenbcrgs Christmas day .. . a girl and a boy in the B family now. .. . Pat Crowley is another proud pappy, of a little girl, and is practicing law with his father in a Chicago Loop office. . . . Also understand that Bill Carroll and Don Draper are members of the Chicago family circle. . . . Would like to hear from them. . . . The Chi­cago "Times* is still a better paper because of the clever pix captions, brain children of Joe McCabe. .. . Someone very close to Joe intimated that he is not without dreams of pipe and slippers and the patter patter . . . and may be lost to the fast waning bachelor group veo' shortly. . . . Say it isn't so. . . . Grander Well recently headed n civic committee in Port Huron commemoratine the birthday of Thomas Edison, the world pre­miere of the motion picture 'The Life of Thomas Edison' being part of the program which drew such celebrities as Edsel Ford. Mickey Rooney and several others. . . . Norm McCloud followed Old Sol to Florida a couple of years ago and de­cided to stay . . . Don't blame him . . . Ap­preciated that Christmas card from-Larry Sexton, nnd the thought from Bcrnic Lcnahan. . . . 
"Johnnie Lynch is still Chicago's automobile dealer, but Buick's the Buy now .. . In Detroit here Jack Brccn will be glad to show the new Xash .. . He and Ted Feldman are waging a hopeless battle against bulging waist-line and receding h.iir-linc, with the odds about even. . . . Vic ShafTncr is a welcome addition to our midst. being transferred here from New York to assume the post of assistant chief probation officer for Uncle Sam in Detroit, .. . He informs us that Jack Finncran and Jimmie Dunnigan will have important posts in the New York Racing Com­mission, under the new pari-mutual set-up which was recently passed in that state. . . . Don Wise and Mark Flanagan please note. . . .Jerry Finncr­an was a visitor a short time ago. while touring the midwest in the interest of the New York 'Journal-American's* advertising department and spring planting. . . . Said that George Itohrs is still in New York with Hornblower nnd "Weeks. 
"How many of you fellows are planning on Commencement week this year? It's definitely worth coming miles for, and Moe Lee, Charlie Conlcy, Fran Crowe and Ed Cogley serve as an unofficial welcoming committee that never permits a dull moment. . . . Hope we hear from Norb Schwartz with a bundle of info . . . Clcve Carey, the fast rising Cleveland advertising baron, should be able to contribute plenty from that locale, while Nick Lukats, Laurie Vcjar. Dick Meade, Johnnie English. Leo Cummings et al should be able to cover the seldom-heard-from West Coast delegation. . . . And to you fellows, so many whom we've neglected to mention, let this be a plea to GIVE . . . and the old '33 column will really l>e something to look forward to." 
From George Rohrs, via Don Wise: 
"Saw Rog McGovem 'The Great McCutch* a few weeks ago. He drove down from Bridgeport and spent a night with me going over the latest hot dope from Washington. Rog looks very well and has really attained the air of the barrister. 
"Jack Hoyt used me on January 27 to dress up his wedding party and to pace the other ushers in that long glide down the aisle. Chet was away out in front coming back down the aisle after the ceremony and I felt it was a shame that Nick couldn't have seen him. Ed Eckert, Albany's leading modern plumber, was also an usher and was good enough to secure a room for me at his mother's house where I partook of some of that real German cooking. Joe Clark was also a house guest, and the leading eligible bachelor at the reception following the wedding. Joe has picked up an attractive pipe and a few new dance steps, so you can see the reason for his success with the ladies. 
"Frank McGee claims he never had that demon­strator's job with the Fitch Hair Tonic Co. and is still going strong as a bank examiner. 
"Jerrj' Finncran is helping to induce people to raise Httle pink and yellow flowers in his posi­tion as chief gardener for the New York 'Journal American.' He casually rattles off long flowerj* words and really makes jou feel that maybe you could grow them, too. Write Jerry for some fer­tilizer. 
**Mauo' Mulville looks in at a club meeting now and then between cases at the hospital. Maury is taking his medicine as he took everj*thing else nnd we will soon have a fine surgeon in our group. 
"Art Lavery is reaping the benefits of a very careful and exhaustive period of study he put in before branching out for himself in the insurance business. Most insurance men seem to attempt to sell you on the basis of friendship — Art sells on facts and a job well done. 
"Met Jim Shea in the subway the other evening and he told me about his recent marriage and his work in the printing business. Jim sees Dave Powers quite frequently and says Dave is busy teaching and writing on the subject of Speech. 
"Jack Finneran came in from Ohio last night and reports favorably on Neil Ebert and family. Jack claims to have lost some weight but he is still about 20 pounds over me. 
"Ed Stcphan is down Wall Street way with one of the bigger law firms. 
"Ed Kosky is going through a new box of cigars while waiting for spring practice to start at Ford­hnm, which will give him a chnnce to try the new double reverse body block he has been work­ing on in his parlor all winter. 
"As for myself, Don — I'm analysing this and that investment and industry and trying to do a few market research jobs at the same time. Horn­blower & Weeks is still my business residence — 
F. D. R. notwithstanding. We had another little girl five weeks ago, Judy by name, and every­thing is just fine as I beam and tell Jim Dunni­gan with his three sons that he better get on the date list. Jim and I live on the same street here in Riverdale and spend many evenings together making tafTy. 
"Better close this here. Don, so that I'll have some news left for future letters. Say hello to any of the boys that you run into and let me hear from you soon. The address is 6107 Spencer Ave., Riverdale. New York City." 
John Yeiser, of good old Paducah, Ky.. is studying Law in the University of Texas, Austin. 
Leo Nulty is resident agent in Asheville. N. C. for the F.B.I. His present address is 55 Maney Ave., Asheville. 
Maurice DeWald, Fort Wayne, Ind.. sends, in addition to welcome financial assistance, the news that Ernest Gargaro, Detroit, and Kay Hilker, of Fort AVayne, have announced their engagement. 
|p9 ^ AL Robert CahUL Athletic Association, I Tw f Notre Dame. Indiana. 
Joe Doherty is one of Uncle Sam's assistants in the postoflice of Paducah, Ky.. according to recent word from the Ir\'in Cobb stronghold. , 
"Republica Dominicana" says the stamp on the postcard which Bob Measer wrote this message: "Down here doing some stories -—^ it is a grand country." 
Tom Nelson, formerly of Dubuque. Iowa, sends financial aid from Port Angeles, Wash., with this message: "Well, now that you ask, I would like to know what hnppened to the lawyers of *.14. Does any one ever hear of them? Paal Kempter is running for prosecutor of Jackson County, Iowa. 
"Up here in the Olympic Peninsula I have met few from the Golden Dome. Of course. Morris Starrett, ex. '19. is still out beating the bushes for another Tom Yarr. . . . Joseph Johnston, ex. 
'23, who went to Notre Dame for about a year is practicing law here in Port Angeles." 
From Bob Cahill: 
"It is a sorrowful event to start off our class column this issue with condolences, but neverthe­less, we were appalled to hear of the sudden death of Ed Sherman, of Helena, Montana, who died suddenly on the West Coast while vacation­ing. Meager details tell us it was heart trouble. Just last issue we mentioned a letter from Ed. To his mother, Mrs. K H. Sherman, Helena, Mon­tana, we extend the sincere sympathy and mutual feeling of a great loss of the class of 1934. 
"Jim Moscow, that old prexy and politico, called me on the 'phone on Jan. 27. in town for the Northwestern basketball game, at which I thought to see faim, but didn't. Follows a letter from James which he smuggled out, we suppose: 1 want to thank you for the dandy seats you arranged for me and my gang at the basketball game last week. We all enjoyed it from our point of vantage. [You're dam right he paid for them].' 
" *I was sorry I didn't get a chance to see you and Mary, but I trust there will be other oppor­tunities. You know. Bob, I was reflecting the other day as I pored over a recent "Alumnus" (Incidentally I think that is the only non-reli­gious publication allowed to seep through the customs office of the seminary — what a plug for Armstrong) — but to get back to my reflecting, I was thinking of the great amount of talent [note: hold your noses from here on, mates] that lies dormant because they never are called upon to use it. Every so often, though, some unexpectedly get their chances like George Gipp, for instance — he kicks a loose ball back to the football squad about 80 yards away, and Rockne makes him an All-American — or Cahill — he has a headache thro\vn at him in the form of a post­grad column and turns out to be a Winchell-Fidler combine. Better take it easy. Bob, or you'll be pushing Hochreltcr out on the back cover. [lis­ten, Moscow. I resent all three allusions.] Yes-sir, Bob, you have become Mundelein's favorite commentator! Everything is fine here. Our little vacation is over, but I was glad to get back. I'll probably have time in June to run down to N. D. for a day or so — something later in the month after the "cold-cut party." In the meanwhile, best of everything to you and Mary.' 
"I wonder if any of you gentlemen happened to notice in the Letters to the Editor department of 'Time' magaaine, one from one Bryan Dcgnan, of Pittsford, Vermont, in the January 29 issue? I did. and I'm sure it's none other than our own 'Juggler' Joe. He's still throwing his weight around, but deftly. How about a line, Joe, and how are you feeling? 
"Bill Vceneman called me from Louisville one day last month, for rome information. After we had dispot^ed of that, we talked a while (on Bill's nickel). He seems to be fine, working hard for Frankfort Distilleries, playing golf when the weather is right, looking fon.vard to the Derby, and perhaps a visit here in June. To all of us, he sends his best. 
"B. M. (Cap) Smith sent me a novel calendar* blotter at Christmas time, with no letter, but bis business card reveals he is a salesman for the Clarence L. Boyd Co., Inc., dealers in. tractors, power units, graders and stuff. In Oklahoma City, -which I assume is in Oklahoma. Cap's address is 17 S. W. Pottawatomie, Oklahoma City. Okla. His slogan is 'Everything for the Road Builder/ Votes, too. Cap? 
"Bob Ward, the former Feoria boy, dropped in the other day. He's now in Chicago, a nice job with WPA. and really he looks exactly as he did in school. He caught me in one of my rare mo­ments (said Joe Pctritz at the time) and -was croine to drop back, but I missed him so can't tell you any more about him. , 
"Ed Bforan, of the Tj-nc Co.. 3212 W. FiHmore St.» Chicaso. dropped me a note on business, and included a query as to Dick Chapman, the 'little giant from California.' Maybe Dick will respond if he sees this. 
"So it's slim pickin's this month, men. Oh, of course, I could go on and fill up pages. like we did in the blue books when we didn't know the real answers to the question, but you'd all be hep if I did that. Funnj- the profs never caucht on to our. — shall I call it. filibustering? That's the printable word for it. Or maybe, do you suppose those profs 'did' catch on ? If so, I'll take back the things I said about them, "tt'e live and learn, mates. Let's hear from you." 
1935 Franklyn C Hochrcitcr, 530 Saint Peter St^ New Orleans, Louisiana. 
5-yEAR REUNION 
Class of 1935 May 31, June I and 2 
From Franklyn: 
"Gentlemen of the class of '35 — may we refer you to the class of 1930 column for the last Issue. and likely again this time to press, for your edi­fication? There you will find in February some four columns of advance letters on their enthu­siasm over their appro.^chinK reunion. Then glance at the length of this column and you will discover, we hope to your chagrin, a great void. Before a form letter was ever sent to the '30 men they began writing in about tlioir 10-year reunion. We have begged since the first issue this year for rour feelings on your first reunion. The results have been exactly zero. If you are not interested, you are surely taking the right attitude to convey a complete lack of what it takes to make one of these five-year get-togethers a success. 
"If this is any indication of what we may expect in the way of a response when our special letters go out in March it looks like the *35 re­union will exist merely on paper. AVhat do you say we all snap out of it and start talking it up? Are we going to let the older classes get the jump on us? Are wo going to permit our first reunion to be any less important than those of our predecessors ? It's up to you. gang — it's your reunion — what do you say to sending in those cards and letters to us so we can fill the April column with your remarks of anticipation? Come on — wake up and scratch or type out a fast line or two so we can know you are anxious for your first official reunion since you left school. 
"We said there was little to print this month, and we meant it. If it were not for the fact that we usually save a few items each time we write this dope, we would have little or nothing to say this trip. Fortai-ately though, we saw several of the crowd and had two items up our s'eeve — just in case this should happen to 'your class column.* 
"First of all. Bob Forbes dropped us a note from San Juan, Puerto Rico, where he is actively engaged as an 'agency promoter' with Victor Braegger, Inc., insurance agents on the island. We appreciated a word from you. Bob, and have double-t^eckcd j-our data on Larry Clark. We will give you what dope we have. 
"Bob said that he thought our Lawrence Van­zandt Clark, to whom we referred in our Decem­ber column, was our Larry Clark, of Alhany, N. T,. and who Bob understood was killed in a plane accident about tn'O years ago. Checking with the Alumni Office on this. Jim Armstrong ^vrote us as follows: 'After checking our records regarding Lawrence VanZandt Clark, we find that we received a change of address from 1129 Third St., Rensselaer, N. Y., to 585 Sixth Avenue. Wafervliet, N .Y., on February 23, 1938. Mail was.returned from the Sixth Avenue address on December 21, 1938.* The office sent out a tracer on the first address but as yet has heard nothing. We are offering this to all of you, so perhaps one of Larry's gang will send us the latest and correct info on him. 

"We appreciated your offer of a swim should we drop down that way. Bob. It may not be so far off. Our summer plans call for either an auto trip to the Canadian Rockies or a cruise down your way. If it be the latter, we may accept that swim offer. 
"Along about the middle of last month came a short message from John Dugan Carbine .ind a clipping. The newspaper piece announced the angagement of the 'famous "Scholastic" editor' to Miss Muriel E .Brown, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. James T.iylor Brown, of Rutland, Vermont. We read of the engagement supper served in Mr. Brown's Hotel Bardwell. The wedding will take place in early spring. At present John is asso­ciated with the law firm of Fenton, Wing and Morse. 
"Congratulations, Dugan! We will spare you your just deserts in not making 'Mirrorish com­ments similar to what wc might expect were you printing such news about us in the World's Greatest Collegiate Weekly.' All we can hope for is that you and the Mrs. will be coming on for the reunion together. May we count on that? 
"Just before starting our monthly stint we re­ceived an announcement, via New Orleans, of the marriage of Michael Morgan Shccdy, Jr., to Miss Ribi Marion Powell at Notre Dame on June 5. 1937. The real import of this announcement we do not know, as it seems to come about two and a half years late. Or could it be that Mike is just now making it public? Whatever may be the background — here is to happiness, Mike! 
"Late in December we were in the Juvenile Court one morning for n case and ran into Bus Brcen. Bus was then just freshly off the aisle of matrimony and was looking his old dapper self. He was querying about reunion because of the new wife, but we advised him to bring her along. There \\-iIl be others of us with -ivives, and we for one want to go on record as stating Mrs. Scribe will be there. 
"Day before we left for Chi at the end of the Christmas vacation we were going into the Jung Hotel bar for a fast one to do a bit of natal celebration and ran into Bcmic Hcnnessy, '34. Bernie was in New Orleans for the national con­vention of the Celotex outfit with whom he is a sales representative working out of Rochester, 
N. Y. He raised one with us and asked for all the old *35 crowd who used to sit at his table, when he was hashing. He wanted to be remem­bered. 
"Over the week-end of February 3. Tom Proctor and the Mrs. were in town and we had an op­portunity to talk reunion plans with him. It is not time to make them public but we can promise you that the committee has a few new ideas up its sleeve. Tom came In on legal business and we had the pleasure of lunch with Mrs. Tom and an evening with them both. 
"On the 9th we received a message at the office that Art Korzcneski had been trying frantically to get a hold of us. When we finally reached him, it was for a little dinner date at the hotel with Art and Ginny. Later in the evening Jade Clark joined the crowd and we were able to enlarge on the embryo ideas for June, reaching some rather well rounded decisions. Jack contin­ues with the county assessor and Art with Lane Technical High School. In addition. Art has taken himself off to DePaul Night School to com­plete his studies for an M.A. some time in the future in education. 
"Talking about the gang wth Art we gleaned some few items for our grapevine. He was in New York City for the Polish Student Alumni Association Convention at the turn of the year and delivered his final presidential address to the organization meeting at Columbia. After several terms in the driver's seat. Art declined another period in office. 
"While in the cast Art saw Sig Sluszka at the convention. He was elected vice-president of the association. At the time Sis was suffering from ptomaine poisoning that had broken out in a rare form of skin rash. Incidentally, the Sluzkas arc expecting a happy event in the near future. Fe­licitations, kids! 
"After his speech Art noted that Jim McDcntt was in the audience and came up for a chat. Jtm continues in his former employment. 
"It is rumored that Ray Cakes has recently been transferred to Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
"Frank Koppclbcrgcr continues to hold the torch and very well .too, for Auto-Lite in Bay City, Michigan. 
"Way up there in Muck^va^ago. Wisconsin. Jake Kunz is nourishing in the milk business. Jake, you know, was married about the same time the Scribe took holy matrimony as a char­acteristic, and like us, Jake confines himself to his wife, but has the jump on us — he had a dog and a horse. We think you get it! 
"Art O'Neil, that good looking fellow who quietly went through his N. D. years as one of us, is married and the proud father of two daugh­ters. He is associated with his father in the contracting business here in Chi. 
"Remcmher Charles Moore, ex. '35? Art tells us that Charlie is taking to heart the legal pearls of wisdom that comes across the desk in the class­rooms of De Paul Law School. 
"Dame rumor has it that Richard 'Duke' Walters was recently married. Does anyone want to confirm this report? 
"Glancing through the Engagement column in the last issue we found that George Dcmctrio had decided to join us in the growing numbers flock­ing to wedlock. George is now engaged to Miss Madeline Elizabeth Kelly, of New Jersey. "VVe ran into George in the Palmer House recently and heard that his Chicago pals are planning a bit of an informal bachelor party over reunion week-end in South Bend. Tlie wedding is to be late in June. All of which reminds us — George asked us to notify the class that the first response to our form letter in March gets a free room at the Palmer House — in case of tie — all bets off. 
"Of our entire gang, we are voting the eastern boy who conquered the Midwest, as one of the outstanding go-getters of the class. George was recently promoted again at the Fhlmer House, and is now 'chief of service' for the hotel. Nice going, George! 
"Checking the Jilarriages reported last month we found that felicitations are in order for Dick Biggins, who married Miss Grace Huse in the Log Chapel, December 2. 
"Jerry Doyle also took the jump in December. He married Miss Katherine Belle Broussard in Beaumont, Texas, on the 30th. Among the at­tendants was Bob Simmons. Lots of luck and happiness! 
"There were no Births reported, but we were shocked to read of the death of Jack Kavanangh's mother. To Jack, brothers Tom and Joe, and to Mr. Kavanaugh we extend the class* deepest sym­pathy. 
"Thafs about it for this time, gang. We are ^\TitinE this just before taking a train to New York and Boston "witli Mrs. Scribe for the annual conference of the American Ortho-Psychiatric Association in the Massachusetts town. Though we have only a few hours in the big town and those -re full, we shall have several days in the Hub City and intend giving a few of the '35ers a buzz. Hope to have something to report on the Far East next time to bat. In the meantime — please read again the head paragraph of this column and take it to heart. The address is at the head of the column — 'WRITE!" 
Fred Follmar completed his medical studies with honors at Loyola in Chicago and is now an in­terne in Milwaukee County Hospital, Milwaukee. Wis., according to a kind and generous note from his mother in Montei-ey, Ind. 
Joe Dudley is in the milk and dairy business with his father in Paducah, Ky. 
John V. Ryan. 319 Woodlnwn Road. Lake Forest, 111., is now employed by the Chicago regional traffic office of the United Air Lines, Says the company's official announcement. John is married, with two children, and has worked in Oakland. Calif., and for Swift & Co., in Chi­cago. 
1||9 # John Moran. 61 E. 95th St.. Apt. 2, I TaO New York City. 
From John Moran: 
"This month you 450 more or les?5 modest, retir­ing 36ers have re<luced us to poetry. The reason: the almost total lack of cJa.*:s news when we sat do^vn to do our monthly stint. Since we have practically nothing to u-rite about, we decided to while away the time with a little doggerel. 
"This-was inspired (?) by that nursery rhyme about old Mother Hubbard who went to the cup-ho^rd and couldn't find any bones to pick. You didn't ask for it, but here it is anyway: 
A CLASS SECRETARY'S LAMENT 

Ycur pore old class scril>e. , 
Waited for your letters to arrive. 
But only two came, much to his grief. 
So here he sits, with nothing to ^vrite. 
And so little class news in sight. 
THAT THIS COLUMN "WILL BE VERY. VERY 
BRIEF! 
"We can't sell that kind of stuff to the 'New Yorker,* or the 'Saturday Evening Post,' but it helps fill this big. yawning column. So how about a few letters .. . or else we'll turn this into a poetry column, so help us. Horrible thought, but we're desperate (as you probably will agree after reading the above effort). 
"We guarantee that once you have dropped us a bit of much needed information about yourself, and the gang in and around your neck of the woods, you will find the effort painless, even pleasant. After all. your friends are interested in hearing about you. And as for your class sec­retary . . . you will save him from the necessity of writing any more doggerel. 
"Our mail sack this month rattled hollowly with only two letters in it. The first -was from our roommate. Cliff Brown, and came on the effi­cient looking stationery of Norwalk. Ohio's, most promising rising attorney. That 'most-promising' phrase is just descriptive: Cliff isn't running for office iust yet 
"Cniff writes that he doesn't see many of the old crowd unless business takes him to Cleveland. He reports that Dan O'Brien is purchasing agent for a wholesale scrap-iron concern, and is pros­pering right smartly. Via the O'Brien teletjrpe system comes word that two other barristers. Bill Bowes and George Thomas, are making effective jury appeals in Chicago. 
"Cliff and Mrs. Brown had a visit last Novem­ber from Jack Cashin and his bride, ivho were on their way out to the Northwestern game. Jack, as reported here t^cently. was admitted to the New York bar a short time back. Cliff would like to hear from any of the class, particularly Bud Goldman and Andy Hufnagcl. So get out those pens and send along your letters to 301 Citizens National Bank Building, Norwalk, Ohio. 
"Our second welcome letter of the month came irom Joe 'Hank' MacDonald, whose mother very kindly sent us word of his recent wedding. Hank reports on a few of the 'Soers, to wit: Harry Gafncy and George 'Muggs>'' McGrath, who are twth teaching in Ware. Mass.. High School. Joe Prcndcrgast, who also hails from Ware (no pun Intended), was reported as having Veen in Europe as late as September, 1939. when Hank married Miss Beatrice Dillon, of Ware. 
"George Wenthworth, when last heard from was teaching and (or) coaching at Fairfield, Maine. Since then, he has dropped from sight. Hank, as noted here some time ago. is with Globe "Wire­less. Ltd.. at 29 and 350 Broadway, N. Y. C. a communications commission handling mostly Pa­cific Ocean and Far Eastern business. The Mac­donalds. however, have gone across the river to set up house, and may be reached at 45 7th St.. Apt. C9, Weehawken, New Jersey. 
"And that makes short work of this month's mail. In passing we might state that we bumped into Tom Kccnan on Feb. 5, on 42nd Street, just after leaving Tom Lantry, '30, demon insurance executive. The Tom that is surnamcd Keenan is with the advertising department of the N. Y. Daily 'News,* as are Tom Dunn and Tom Fen­ncley. Seems that the 'News' prefers employees with Thomas for a moniker. Keenan reported that the former golden voice of WSBT. Joe Mansfield, is doing very well as an announcer with Station WJAR, Providence. Rhode IsKind. Joe used to spend so much time oi'er in the stu­dio in the Engineering Building, that be has gone and invented a miniature hockey game, which win shortly be patented, before s\veeping the toy market. Good luck, Joe. and how about a line (written, not oral). 
"And while we are at it, how about a line from some of the following, who are due to break into print with a little news about themselves: Charles Hughes, George Ireland, Bill Jacobs, How­ard Jeffers, Norm Johnson, (who being a South Bend journalist, when last heard from, should be able to pass along some interesting news). Jim Jones, Bill Jones. Frank Joyce, Ralph Kaiser. Dan Kalczynaki (another South Bender). Ray Kane. Dick Kane, George Keller. Art Kelley. Frank KcUncr (whose address was recently re­quested here), Don Kelly, and Ed Kennedy. 
"And just In closing we might mention that John R>-an's profile has been appearing nationally in the advertisements of the Thomas Scalp Treat­ment Company. We saw one. where John, with brush in hand, was looking the casual reader squarely in the eye, and demanding sternly wheth­er he had brushed his 387,463 hairs that morning. That appeared, we believe, in the N. Y. 'Herald-Tribune.' whose Republican readers are apt to challenge the accuracy of the figure, and demand a recount. 
"In closing, we might mention that we feel a bit of verse coming on.. By next month it should reach the proportions of an epic poem .. . so if we don't get any news from you boys in a hurry, we'll make good our threat and publish it here next issue. The editorial staff of the 'Alumnus' is shuddering already, so save them. 
and yourselves, from the horrible necessity of reading it." 
Jack Bray sent, not only a welcome gift for the Alumni Asoclation treasury, but also many of the news items, especially concerning Paducah, Ift-., residents, which grace this, and nearby, class columns. Jack, If the editorial memory is still functioning at its customary 50 per cent spee<i. Is the radio tycoon of Paducah. 
Jack says that Larry Jones, of Paducah, studied for a year at Texas A. & M. and is now livestock breeder and dealer near Jackson. Tenn. 
Jim HfcCraley's mother sends word that he will finish up in medicine at St. Louis U. in June and that he expects to interne in Mercy Hospital, Chicago. Jim's St. Louis address is 3645A La­fayette Blvd. 
Mike' O'Connor, — Dr. Mike since he received his Ph.D. at Notre Dame last year, — is now in chemical research for the Union Carbide & Car­bon organization in its Charleston, W. Va., plant. Mike is residing at 1329 Quarrler St., Charleston. 
Joe Shicl is teaching physical education in the Omaha public schools. 
Ted Prckowitz, South Bend attorney, was re­cently elected president of the South Bend Catho­lic Youth organization. 
Gene Malloy, CHiicago ,is now in charge of col­lege contacts for the Chicago office of the Bur­roughs Adding Machine Company and, in that capacity, spent a couple of days on the Notre Dame campus in February Interviewing many of the seniors. Gene has enjoyed exceptional suc­cess with Burroughs in several sales positions. 
Dick Pfeffcrle Is, or soon will be, in Daven­port, Iowa, as asistant to Larry MnUIns, now head coach at St. Ambrose. Dick and Larry had been at Loyola. New Orleans. 
 Foley. 18036 Schoenhocr Road, 
Detroit, RDdiigvi. 

1937 Panl 
From Paul Foley: "Any reported shortage in newsprint will not have appreciable effect on the production of this month's grist of news. There's a slightly rummy lad appearing with a flea show locally who could do it easily on an 1861 penny — in capital letters. 
"In fact, the total grist of mail for the month was two (count 'em) two letters — both from Eastern precincts, one card from Arkansas, and a short but most interesting note from Wyoming. 
"Johnny Hurley, operating for John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co. out of Rochester's Commerce Building, \vings in quite a batch of copy on many lads. Some of it is rather 'dated' but we'll do a bit of pearl diving for the choice pieces. 
"Walt Schrader is reported in Iron Mountain, Mich., where he is assistant to Vic WojcirfioTski in coaching Iron Mountain lads to athletic vic­tcries. At last report, there was some discussion of sending a delegation of Finn soldiers to Iron Mountain for winter conditioning — that will give you a rough idea of where it is —• three blocks southeast of the Arctic circle. 
"Incidentally, WojciehorsW is reported happily merried and slightly more bald. 
"Dntdi Tomasdiko is worldng in his home town, Weston, W. Va., and has marriage on his mind — in fact he may have it on his hands by now — according to Scribe Hurley. 
"IVom as far back as the Southern Ca} game we hear that Captain John Lantar is still occu­pied with engineering at Fostoria, Ohio. John is the proud sire of two daughters. 
"In Grand Rapids, reportedly doing social worlc, is the report we get on Frank Girry. The same report links Ben Schercr to a job with the N. Y. Daily 'News* — but we have a faint recollection of hcadng somewhere that that connection is no more —• what about it, Ben 7 — what's The News ? 
"Latest reports are that Larrj- Danbom is no longer connected in Erie, Pa., but is back in the Wabash state, this time in West Lafayette with the Standard Oil Co., and he's married. 
"Cryptically we hear about the Grahams — to the effect that Bill is located in Clarion, Pa,, 'looking after the vast Graham Interests," while Chnck is messing around with some unnamed job in Griffin, Indiana. We didn't even know there was a job in Griffin, Ind. 
"Bob Weaver has opened law offices in Ohio — Coshocton, we're told, but we are issuing no guarantee on the existence of Coshocton — any­way, wherever it is, they have laws. 
"To add an intemationnl flavor, we note that Greg Byrnes is occupied -with advertising matters in Toronto — we sincerely hope he stays clear of the present Buropean impoliteness. Byrnes seems to be doing A-1, however, since Hurley reports that Byrnes owns a car so big he can't buy much gas for it. 
"Ed Hickcy is operating out of an architectural office in Logansport, Ind., and apparently operat­ing quite neatly since he is reported in the com­pany of a stunning blonde on some unnamed re­cent date. 
"Frank Meyers is due to finish up in North­western College of Law this June. Also in Chi­cago is Tom Pendcrgast, working on a job un­known to us but apparently prosperous. 
"Still ^%•ith Bond clothiers and moving up notch by notch is Al Bride -— Al was recently appointed credit manager of the Bond store in Syracuse. Previous to this promotion Al operated in the Hartford branch of the same firm. So if your pants need \-uIcaniring in the vicinity of Syra­cuse — see Bride for credit. 
"First word we have had since graduation of Bill Tnnney, comes via Hurley — it seems Hur­ley met some young lady who turns out to be a cousin of Tunne>' (but a very nice girl), who reports Bill is in the office of Coming Glass Co. after a go at peddling life insurance in Chicago 
— which needs it. 
"We note with paternal pride the announce­ment of Rock}* Riley's engagement. 
"Hurley's letter also contains a good Indian joke (prior to the Confucius Age). We'll be glad to pass it along. Simply mail in the tops from two large size barrels of buckwheat honey, plus S4.17 to cover the cost of mailing. 
"From the offices of Homan, Buchanan & Smith, Counsellors at Law, Trenton, N. J. (Cable Ad­dress: 'Buchmal'), we hear from Jim Waldron. 
"James seems to he as busy as in bis under­graduate days — except that today's chores center about 'the law.* He and Jack McGurl are boning at Temple Law School. Jim seems to enjoy the rigorous schedule he outlines — and no doubt is thriving on it, even as of yore. 
"Jim reports seeing Larrj' Burnett and Red Skelly on the streets of Philadelphia and adds this charming 'non sequitur': "The former is at Hanneman Med. School, while the latter isn't married either.* Amazing, isn't it? 
"Ed and Frank Huisking are hawking 'Conti Products' in New York for their father. In the same meridian are Doc Hardart and Bob Gehres, who, Waldron states, are acquiring bed>side manners at Medical Center. 
"Transferred from Philadelphia to Pittsburgh recently was I>arry O'Donncll, 'who is maintain­ing a connection w*ith a publishing firm. 
*'Waldron remarks poignantly: *Pinky Carroll rarely spends an evening out — guess the night air is bad for his lungs, or something.' Which is a direct contradiction to the report from the Philippines we published in the last issue. 
"In the 'Buchmal' dispatch we also hear of great goings on when N.D. tangled with N.Y.TJ. in the Garden. It seems the entire gang was out 'en masse* — but alas! a futile gesture. In the gathering, but scarcely of it. was Bill 'The Gaffer* McNally, who is working — you guessed it — as a contact man for one of our better distiller­ies. In fact, with Calvert's, if that's not too much of a plug. 
"Jack Tagncy, Bill Fallon and 'Cousin Joe* O'Xcill were nlso in the Garden on that fateful night. 
"Right off the ticker tape comes word that Chick Maloncy will become a June groom — to one of Chicago's most fair. In the same flash comes word, not entirely new, that Ade Jadae is to marry, or already has married, Betsy Ross, referred to by Waldron as: 'The little flag-maker he squired to every big dance at school.' 
"From Jonesboro, Ark,, comes a card reading: 'Not triplets, not twins, but a singleton — Fred Louis Purj-ear, bom at 1:42 a.m. on February 
4. 1940. weighing six pounds, six ounces.* Bob 'Geech* Purycar is the proud father. Bob, Fran­ces, and Fred Louis all reported thriving." 
Fred Mulcahy is rounding out his third year on the South Bend "Tribune," he said when he was on the campus recently. Just now, Fred is han­dling the night police beat. 
Heno' Anderson is employed by the Illinois Central in Paducah, Ky. 
IQ9 D Harold A. Williams. 216 East Lake I T J O Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland. 
From Hal Williams: 
"I thought I was going to be caught short when Bill Doolcy's call for copy arrived for I had only two letters to pass along. But, lo and behold, within the next two days a number of classmates resijonded, and here I am with about nine letters. 
"John 'Moose' Waters has the floor. 'It's been a long time since I sat down at this meat grinder to turn out a masterpiece as replete with typo­graphical errors as this one will be. . . . Things have been moving along for me in this gay world since last I wrote. I am no longer connected with the food business. Final score: Two baker­ies; two bakeries sold. I am now employed by tile Straus Securities Co., an investment house in LaSalle Street here in Chicago. I secured the job through the placement bureau of the local Notre Dame Club, f Adv. — Secretary's note.] . . . My boss is one of the old-time N. D. Boys . . . I like the work and that's half the battle. . . . That just about takes care of my personal career. So I'll get down to the news items. . . .* 
" 'On November 23, 1939, I attended the wed­ding of Pctor Sexton and Miss Patricia Ann Mc­Carthy in St. Ignatius Church, Chicago. On Feb­ruary 3, 1940, I attended the wedding of Arthur Gcis and Miss Virginia Norris in St. Angela's Church, Chicago.* 
" 'I frequently hear from Paul Schaub. He is employed at present by the ^Vheeling Machine Company, after holding numerous other jobs around Wheeling. Peter Sexton has a nice job with his father's grocery concern. Art Gcis is working for the Chicago subway. He tells me that John Fogcl is now attending Medical School. Jack Hughes, *38^>, is employed by the Chicago '"Tribune" in the circulation department. Ralph MacDonald is working for the Minneapolis Hon­neywell Company. Ncal O'Brien is here in Chi­cago attending an optometrist's school. Babe Kelly, when last heard from, was selling flour. He's married, you know. John Thomas is em­
ployed in the Chicago office of one of the TWA. '­

Dan Gibbs lives here in Oak Park and is employed by a local insurance firm. Greg Kelly is still in the service,of Local Loan. Jerry Clifford works for the Burroughs Adding Machine Company. His brother John is now in the employ of Montgom­ery Ward & Co. Bob Laughlin dropped in one day last summer, but, as fate would have it, I was out at the time. Joe Timmcrman sent me a 
Christmas card from down Peoria way, but don't know what he is doing and don't have his address to find out. Caught a glimpse of Ray Meyer at the Notre Dame-Northwestern basket­ball game on December 30. Mush Callahan dropped out to see me one night last week. He has been in sales work for Socony Vacuum Oil Co. Now he is employed by a railway car man­ufacturing company in East Chicago. Ind. . . .' 
"Ihanks, Moose, for the swell letter. And. l>y the way, how come you're not getting married? 
"Next is the old Don Juan himself, John F. Clear?-, Jr. Jack has this dope to pass along: ' 'With the reception of each and every "Alumnus." I have made a solemn promise to drop a few lines to let you -know that I am still in circulation, and if it wasn't for the fact that it is storming out (just like Indiana) this epistte would never be written, as I had planned to go to Boston to see Greg Rice race Don I-ash at the Boston Garden.* 

" 'Since my last letter I have been on the hop from one place to another trying to get the work which I really like. I went to work for Sears. Roebuck & Co. in Boston for a short time, and from there to teaching school in St. Mary*s Girl High School. And was I in my glory there! My last stopping-off point, and my permanent one. is 
•with tlie Reed & Barton Silver Co. I am working on inventory control: it is a new setup and as a result of getting in on the ground floor I have been stepping right along in the company.' 
" 'News hot off the wire from here and there: Pete Gay, who went to N. D. for three years, is now a full-fledged lawyer, and doing fine. . . . Jim Mulcahy is still teaching at. Coyle High, Taunton. Mass. . . . Jack Simon is keeping busy ^Wth Birmingham and Prosser Paper Co., Kala­mazoo, and Phil Shields quit the copper company to sell tires in Kalamazoo.* , 
" 'Art Sclna was here during the Christmas holidays, and we really went to town. Art grad­uates this June from N.D. Law. I hope to see him during Easter vacation and thereby check up on all the goings-on and of the wherabouts of .. . a few of the old gang in the Bend.* 
" 'I'm going to write to Bud Sherwood in a few days and ask him to come up for a visit- . . .* 
"Good luck with fine job. Jack, and don't forget the promise of the monthly letter. 
"In today's mail I received the long-promised letter from the old class president, Johnny O'Con­nor. Says he, 'Yes, here comes O'Connor out of the moleskins after a long period of silence. Really, Hal, more than once I began a letter to you, but something in the way of studies, Howell's, bridge games, or two week vacations, prevented me. I'm sorry I didn't get to see you longer while I was in N. Y. for the Army game, but our plans to make the Pennsylvania that Sat­urday night fell through. We ended up in White Plains. . . ,' 
" 'My last tough exams are over and this semes­ter points toward a bit of relaxation like you boys did back in the Spring of 193S. flf his professors see this, he's just kidding. — Secretary's note.] Of cnurse, I have a bar exam to think about. I'm still coaching freshmen basketball, and I enjoy it 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 173 
a great deal. Spend most of my spare time over at the Rockne Memorial. . . .* 
" 'Am rooming my second year in a row with Messrs. O'Lcary and Johnny Wilson. Jack O'Leary's father, as you probably heard, passed away in early December. Wilson is still the rosy cheek boy of the law students. .. . I fool around 
•with Frank Bright (he has the magazine conces­sion this year), Ed Grogan, Fcnfon Mcc, Chuck Dailey, Art Sdna. Bob Dcrcngoski. and plenty of other law students who -.vcre from the class of 1038.' 
" 'Don Hickcy is still seen, occasionally, around the campus. Jack Plouff and Charley Duke are his confederates. I believe Jack O'DonnclI, who entered at the semester for some post grad work, has Joined their ranks. Bill Armcl dropped in the other day on the way to Ypsilanti. He is still selling paint. He mentioned that Lenny Skog­lund has been boosted a couple of times since joining Haskins & Sells, Got a card from Jack Fox from Dunncdin, Fla. I believe that he is working at the Hotel Fenway in that city. Bill Castlcman is working for an insurance company in Louisville. . . .* 
"Good work, Johnny. Come more often. 
"Steve Dietrich came through with a fine letter just the other day. He expresses his sorrow over the death of Joe O'Boylc, and goes on to pass along some information about the classmates. He says that Tom Bond was in Trenton over the Army week-end. "While Tom was in the East he expressed a desire to see Princeton University, so they dropped up there in a pouring rain. Says Steve. 'He didn't care for it, neither do I. I be­lieve N. D. has the nicer buildings, campus, etc' Princeton "Hger,* please copy! Steve reports that Jeep Healy is out on Long Island on a paper and doing fine. Ditto for Hank Leader, who is work­ing for the 'News' in New York. 
"Ivan Ivancevic dropped in to see Steve. He has found a job in New York and, get this, Sher­wood has changed his name to Casimir Vance. Frank Detscher, according to Steve, is doing very well in Port Chester. Here Steve's handwriting slips a bit and I can't make out Frank's job. That's a good atcuse to ask for a letter from Frank. How about it. Detscher? 
"The really big news, though, that Steve has to pass along is: Mr. and Mrs Steve Dietrich an­nounced the birth of Barbara Dietrich on January 
6. Congratulations. Steve. Barbara will prob­ably grow up to be a St. Mary's belle and charm the hearts of N. D. boys 20 years from now, if she's lucky enough to be invited to an N. D. Junior Prom. 
"Steve's address, incidentally, is 47 N. Hermi­tage avenue, Trenton. N, J. Steve doesn't say, but I presume that he is still in the merchandise department of one of the TVenton papers. 
"Tom Shells, one of the best and most con­sistent contributors to this column, comes through with another dandy letter. Mr. Shells: *1 really don't know who owes who in the way of corre­spondence, but I have some welcome news from Oklahoma Ed Kavanaugh that just can't wait. Here goes.' 
" 'Ed, as you probably know, has been associ­ated with the Branift Airways in Dallas ever since be left our broken-down Modernaires one hot summer mo'-ning at "romantic" Virginia Beach in the heart," ot old Virginny. Pete Peder­scn. also of the class of '3S. joined Branifl at Dallas early last year. Well, effective as of Feb­ruary the 19, these two will be associated with the Glenn L. Martin Airplane Co., Middle River. Md. They have resigned their positions at Braniff and expect to arrive in Baltimore around the 17th. . . . I'm writing Ed in care of Hook Kerwin at Cleveland, (Ed intends to stop there on his way East) and telling him to contact you as soon as he arrives in Baltimore. . . - The N.D.-N.Y.TJ. 
game conies off here in N. Y. tonight, but I've been abed with the grippe and so I'll have to follow this one on the radio. Saw Greg Rice run a fine race in the Garden last Saturday. He just lost out to Don Lash at the tape. Hope to sec him avenge said defeat when they meet in the Garden ag^in on the ISth.' 
" *Hook visited me over the New Year's holiday, and we took a trip up Boston way to ring in the New Year with Tommy Atkinson and George Filz­patrick. That was really a memorable January 
1. a tj-pical N. D, reunion in a double room on the 11th floor of the Hotel Statlcr in Boston. Sure was grand seeing those guys again, but that New England must have some romantic magne­tism about it what with these two "ineHgibles" already engaged. Hook and I took no chance and flew back to native climes the next day. . . .* 
"I'm very grateful, Tom, for the letter. I'll do everything possible for the two 'westerners.' Middle River is a suburb of Baltimore and just several stones' throw frcm Towson, my hangout. . Drop down to Baltimore soon, Tom, and we'll have 
another typical N. D. reunion. 
"In the middle of January I received a beauti­ful, long letter from Bill Woemcr. Bill is now back in San Francisco for Seagram-Distillers Corp., 520 Montgomery street. All his stuff was personal, so I have no news to pass along from the San Francisco sector. 'Jack Pot' Crowley has not been heard of since he sent the telegram. 
"I also heard from Hick Hickcy during the past month. Though Don asked to be kept out of the 'Alumnus* because of 'too much publicity' I'm going to take the liberty to advertise that he is opening up a de luxe hamburger stand with a seating capacity of a little over fifty. The open­ing is scheduled for March 1 — the grand opening. Hick's favorite day, March 17. Don adds that Bob Mazancc was in South Bend recently for a dance at St. Mar>-'s. . . . 
"Just after the deadline for the February 'Alum­nus* George Kccnan sent a letter giving some of the details on Joe O'Boyle's death. 'Joe was found dead,' wrote George, 'last Sunday, Janu­ary 7, at his home in Sayrc. It is not necessary to go into the horrible details of the tragedy save that he was taken sick in the car about ten o'clock Saturday night and was overcome by carbon monoxide gas, and was found Sunday morning by his sister. He had been reaching into the car to turn off the ignition when death came. The family is left very much alone with five sisters surviving. Joe's father died two months ago. . . .' 
"A w-eek later George ^vrote the following. 'Joe Thlcssick called me Sunday night, for he had heard a rumor but wasn't sure. I have seen peo­ple from the Fair with whom Joe and I worked this summer, and the effect is always shocking and the comment always that "it doesn't seem possible." I wrote to Messick on Monday and told him the details. T have written to John Sullivan. Pete McCarron and Bill Robinson. I have in­tended to write to others, but that would be a very complex job as Joe's friends were numer­ous. Through your column the sad news will reach most of them, . . .' 
"I wrote a letter to Joe's sisters expressing the sympathy of the class. If any of you wish to write to the family, the letter should be sent to Miss Mary O'Boyle. 418 Desmond sreet, Sayre, Pa. I know the girls would appreciate it. 
"I forgot to mention that Johnny O'Connor's letter was ^vritten on the Notre Dame 'Lawyer' stationery. Some of the names on the stationery might be of interest. Frank Bright, editor-in> chief; Jack C. Hyncs, note editor; Leon Lancas* tcr, business manager: and board of editors, Loa DaPra, William P, Mahoney, J. Edward 3Iann, John C. O'Connor. Edwin D. O'Leary, Arthnr Sclna, and John H. Wilson. 
"And that's all the news except that a friend of mine in San IMego, Calif., wrote that while attending a New Year's party he met up with a Notre Dame '38 man by the name of McGee . . . a picture of the Notre Dame Knights of Cblnm­bus Council No. 1477 in the Knights of Colum­bus 'News* shows our Robert Grogan. chancellor of the council, standing in the background while the Grand Knight presents a watch to His Excel­lency Most Reverend John P. O'Hara, CS.C, D.D.. .. . and. finally, the first complmnt re­ceived comes from a classmate who, for obvious reasons, wants to remain anonymous in print. Says he, 'And for gosh sake stop putting those "green around the gill" things in your colimin. My mother reads your . . . column. In fact, if my name's in there anyone who ever reads the . . . thing will think I'm writing it. . , .' 
"Oh yes, in the February 'Alumnus' '38 class notes, the make-up man in the Ave Maria Press must have been thinking of the fire in the Main Building when he threw the type for the column in the chase. Ed Bartnett's letter, which was sent in after the other copy, was somehow studc at the beginning of the column. I just thought I'd men­tion this in case some of you fellows were won­dering about the continuity of the piece. 
"That's all except I'd still like to hear from a lot of you fellows who evidently prefer to hide their light under — well, say, under a pile of unusued stationery. 
"To all the fellows who have written, thanks again!" 
"After the copy for the issue was sent in. the following arrived. I>om Bob SfuIIcn, 1369 South street, Chicago: 'This note should have reached you ages ago. In the February issue Johnny Poorc writes of bumping into me at the Caf. The day before I had got back from an exciting year in Europe. As war broke out I was in Switz­erland. Landed in Genoa, Italy, with ten dollars and no ticket back home. Really had to talk myself into a job, so slung hash on the President Adams. Doing graduate work now at the ITni­versity of Chicago in History of Arts. Occasion­ally see John Tobin and Ed Cronin at the TJ. Tobin's studying medicine. Bumped into Chuck O'Reilly, in a tavern. Say hello to Bob McGrath if you see him.' 
"This from Don Hickcy! 'Well. I just finished writing letters to the following '3S men, but not taken from the song of the same name, "Time On My Hands.": Kyle Donnell and Hub Kirch­man in Hollywood (thanks for their address). Gene Vaslett in Broofcl>-n, Bob Mazanec in Cleve-, land, Johnny "Pop" Kelley in Massachusetts, and Owen Kane in Hammond, Ind. No, I'm not con­ducting a correspondence course, just keeping in touch with the lads.* 
" *They can't seem to stay away, Hal. Jack O'Donnell. of Pittsburgh, came back to school this semester to get his master's in English. He was advertising manager for the Aljers Sanitary Fix­tures Co., in Ford City. Pa., but he decided he wanted to teach, so he's back under the Golden Dome. Al Dreiling came back this semester to finish up in Law. He had been at Marquette. Frank Prusha hit the center aisle a week ago and Owen Kane was his best man. The boys are slipping away fast and furious. Jimmy "Puffy" Carson is about to slip a ring on Miss O'Mal­ley in Indianapolis. Jack Lcadbettcr, another benedict of the '38 class, is located in the Bend now with the Indiana-Michigan Electric Co. . . .' 
John Bertcling has returned from his work at the Eldorado Mine, Great Beat Lake. Northwest Territory, and recently had a trip to Bermuda. His permanent address is 26 Mt. Rojral Ave., Hamilton, Ontario, 
Jack Solon is back in Toledo as an announcer on WSPD. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Paul Ktszeli hns been named hend football coach at Cathedral Hish School, EI Faso, Texas. 
Vineent DeConiMT. 2SI N. IStil St., 
1939 
Kansas Cit7. Kansas. 
From Vince DcCoursey: 
"Still swabbing away the tears at not ha\*ing received any valentines, we this month raise a pleading voice beseeching letters, or cards, or what-have-yon, to make a less dismal showing 
next month. February Is usually a bad time 
anyway, but the twentj-.ninth day even makes the shorter distance between the first and second pay-check less alluring. 
"It came as somewhat of a shock when Tom Rcardon roused me from a sick-bed (what a way to spend a holiday I) to say that Father Wennin­ger had passed away. As one who was in the wTong seat two daj'S in one week, we can testify for his effectiveness as a classroom terror: but also as one who has never forgotten the differ­ence between tibia and fibia, can also say he was a wonderful teacher, even though one week was all we had w-ith him. Ceremonies in Sacred Heart Church probably will never be carried out with cjuite the despatch they attained in his master-of-cercmonies c-lorj-. 
"But to turn to the month's happenings — what little we know of them — the comparatively short time bet^voen this past issue and the com­ing of the Little Yellow Card did not allow much time for contributions I know are jamming the mailboxes all over the country. But next month will take care of that all right. Confucius say: 'We hope,' 
"Surprise of tJie Xew Year number one was a very nice letter that came in on the wings of a beautiful snow-storm from Daniel Falsioni from Akron, Ohio, who sends to '. . . the class of '39 my sincre wish for good health and the best of success.* 'Dine* was at Notre Dame from '35 to '37 and dnce leaving has been working at odd jobs trj-ing to get into I.aw School. At present he is employed by the U. S. Veterans Adminis­thation, Batavia, N. Y.. and hopes to enter Al­bany I^iw school next fall. Bob Ortale is design­ing his shingle at the same place says 'Dino.' He also says that be was among the thousands who saw Andy Wilson and Bill Donnelly at the Army same. Andy must have gotten around almost as much this year as when steering Frank Cunning­ham and me around New York's less choicy es­tablishments last year. 
"Out of New Haven, with the sea-foam scarcely dry on the envelope, came a letter from Jim Tan­sey, he of the famous 'History of Physical Educa­tion' (M-W-F 11:00). Jim wanted us to drop a delicate hint to Dick G'Melia to return the sweater he took while visiting his house last fall. All of which further strengthen our resolve to bar the door on O'Melia when he comes to Kansas City — which, we hope, will be this summer. 
"Just full of the New England news was Jim, and if only there were someone around Boston "Way to take up where he left off! All of which means that if Joe Kcnncally does not have n long letter in the column next month he will be de­moted to second-grade alumnus. 
"Here, anyivay is what Jim says: 'I haven't seen Hcrm Romberg since we left Notre Dame, but hear he's with the American Steel and "Wire Co. here in New Haven. Jim McFarland is with the Brach-Hall Dairy Co. and is planning to leave the cows behind as soon as possible. Earl Brown, now coaching the frosh up at Brown, is also playing pro basketball with the Goodwin 
A.C. of Boston.* 
'* *I hiipi>ened to bump into Joe McDonald of Providence a few times since graduation — he gets down to New Haven every once in a while-I saw Bill Waters a few weeks back in East Norwalk and hcd a swell time — he's now selling canned foods. Moose Gottsackcr was up in Hart­ford with the Travelers Insurance Co. and I hear Ed Longhi is with that particular outfit. Inci­dentally, Ed is now married and, of course, the bride is a product of New Haven, Joe Dray -was not able to get home over the Christmas holidays and his folks said he spent the time with Al Van Hufcl and Mrs. V. in South Bend. 
" *As for myself, well, I was with the New Haven Charity Dcpt-- for a while but decided not to reform humanity right away, so now I'm teaching school.' 
"Jim wants advice on how to go about starting a Notre Dame Club in New Haven and would ap­preciate hearing from anyone who could give him a few tips on the matter. Those anxious to give desired information can reach Jim at 40 Penkins St,. New Haven, Conn, 
"Out of Denver and the great ski-country comes a letter from Tom Barry, who mentions the possi­bility of a government contract as a tree-clearer (a Kanger saw him ski) as soon as he's able to sit down to sign anything. 
"About the only one of the old guard Tom has bumped into way out there in the Rockies has been Tom Bossart, who is working for his Dad, handling the Vassar lines in the western territory. 'As for mj-self. I'm rapidly getting nowhere. I'm working for my father, but only until such time as I find a nice companionable female capable of supporting me in the style to which I'd like to become accustomed.* 
"Art Davis, 126 E. 92nd St., New York Cit>-. came through when solicited and deposited the following lengthy epistle on the sagging doorstep just before the turn of the month. 'The absence of a letterhead suggests that as yet, I am not in business, the best reason for not having a letter­head. That is to say. I am not in business for myself. But I am among those fortunate enough to be busy at something and earning a little money thereby. 
" 'As soon as school closed last June, I was busy down at the New York Supreme Court get­ting out hearings for the clerks and stenographers there, and doing fairly well. As work slacked off in the fall, I was lucky in setting a job with a publishing firm and stayed ^vith them for 12 weeks or so, but they advised me they would have to let me go. due to the necessity of having to employ a stenographer in my place. Before the wolf at the door knew what I was doing, I hopped right back to my court work without losins a day. and there I am now. Nothing terribly exciting in my life. I've simply had something to do ever since I've sraduated. I write short stories in my spare time (of which I have abundance).' , 
" 'Tom Maher is with Union Carbon and Car­bide and doing quite well as a s.i1aried salesman, automobile and expenses paid. He will be sent to do foreign seri-icc within the next year, where, he does not know, but he prays it will be Hel­sinki. His company will not allow him to become married for the present, that is, until he gets his 
foreign service over •ivith.' 

" 'Andy Wilson is up at Harvard right now on a business scholarship. He starts at the besin­nins of the present term and will continue through a full year of college business training. Andy contacted the necessary Harvard ainmn! here in New York and impressed them so favor­ably that they decided to grant him a sdiolar­ship.* 
"Then, there is John Kohn, who at the present is with a private insurance company down in the "Wall Street \'icinity. John just spent a couiilc of weeks in the hospital with the flu but finally knocked it for a loop and is back bolstering up his cmtiloycr's business. John entertains Tom Ziegler every Tuesday night (or is it Wednes­day) and Tom's marked ability in the field oi music stands him in good stead with the rest o: j John's family. Tom is pursuing his M.A. Columbia.' 
" 'I also suspect Bill Donnelly of going to C!o­lumbia to obtain his M.A. but I believe it is in Education that Bill is after his M.A.. not English 
'* 'Torn Roche now has a permanent address in New York and is going to Catholic U. study­ing law down there. Tom won't be in New York again until Easter and has promised to bend a few choice elbows with me about old times. Tom was at my New Year's Eve party, along with Tom Ataher. Jim Raaf and Bob Schrocdcr. Tom Maher and Jim brought along (honest to God) two St. Mary's girls and they were both beautiful (hon­est to God).* 
" 'I ran into Tom Hog.in at the Roosevelt Grill but as our acquaintance is merely a nodding one, we merely nodded. And chance decreed that I should meet Dennis L. Dinccn, of Kittanning, Pa,, do\\-n at the Astor, who informed me he was in New York on his honeymoon. Dennis and I never knew each other at Notre Dame, but we recognised each other's faces and so introduced ourselves. He then introduced me to his very cute little wife and during the course of the eve­ning, he told me how good her cooking would have to be. I reassured her though, by telling her that, in view of what Denny had been fed for the past four years, she did not have a very high mark to shoot at.* 

" "Further than that there is little that I know of what has been going on. Andy Wilson and John Kohn dropped in the other night after a lecture by a contemporar>* English poet. I don't know, but I suspect they have been communicat­ing with the Notre Dame English department. The lecture w.-is right across the street from me but I heard nought of it.' 
—" *Joc O'Connor, I see now and then down around Grand Central. 
" 'I want to write more than anything, a rather queer career for an economics major, but nevertheless, it's what I want to do. Hence if a weary, down-at-the-heels writer appears at your door many years hence, you will simply extend your hand and say: "Arthur! It's been so long!" ' 
"After that long and ver>- nice letter — which was also surprising because we sat next to Art for two long years in economics classes and not once suspected he yearned to be another O. Henr>\ Balzac, or Fred Digby. But the best of luck to Art, and we hope that we're some day looking forward to the next instalment of his story in 'Harpers.' 
"Quite a bit of news from Ken Higby (who with the great Parks and the Wisconsin crew-make up most of these columns). Ken is sorry he hasn't written sooner and explains his negli­gence thus: 
" *You see, since late in September I hnve been Ecing to Northwestern, I received an offer late in September of a scholarship in their graduate school of Retailing. That meant that I had to leave Carson, Pirie. Scott, and so out to Scars, Roebuck's Ir\'ing Park store on Chicago's north­west side. You see, under this arrangement we go to classes about half our time, and work the other half, leaving an hour or two for study somewhere along the way, and no time for sleep­ing and eating (or so it seems at times).* 
" 'Anyway the first semester of this hellish program is over. One more semester, during whidi time we are supposed to set started on a thesis, and this will be handed in next summer (I hope!), when we have oral exams, and get a master's degree in Retailing. By then* everyone is expected to be either well on his way to becom­ing a great merchant, or else fit for a padded cell. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
y..ight now at the half-way mark chances look ^fty-fifty either wayl* 
" 'I haven't seen anyone else from Notre Dame 
I the Evanston campus of Northwestern, hut I did run into Dick Anton one evening on the downtown campus. We both decided night school 
•tife isn't all it's cracked up to be.' 
" 'One night as I scurried down Michigan Ave­nue. I met Joe McDcrmott, who is working in the "Wrigley Building. I have stopped in there several times since, but haven't seen him again. And the day after Christmas I ran into Duke DuCharme. who was working at the LaSalle Hotel then, but rer.dy for a change any time. The other night I had dinner with Frank Fitdi, %vho has been work­
. ing at Carson. Pirie, Scott since last summer (more about Frank later). Once in a while T hear from Paul Oakcs, who spent the summer working in a bank for his uncle in northern Michigan but since then has gone with some steel plant in Duluth. 
" 'I'm expecting to go back to Notre Dame next week-end; have been back for the Southern Mcth­
•^odist game and actually got a room in Alumni Hall. I certainly was surprised when Hugh Gar­vcy came around as prefect. ^Vhen I think of the old days, the two just don't mix. but he seems to be doing his job verj- well.* 
*'Frank Payne felt obligated to answer our re­quest for information about the war-torn Cana­dians in the north and sent in the following bits of information. Not a Canuck himself (although another semester at John Wintcrmcyer's table wculd have made him a full-fledged 'empire' man, Frank spent three weeks in Canada *. . . most of which time I was John AVintcrmeycr's guest at his summer home several hundred miles north of Toronto. Briefly, I had a wonderful time.: I was treated like a king, and shall never forget his and his folks' kindness to me. "Wintermeyer and I resolved to visit our friends in Sudberry and, in the words of Secretary Hawkins, "this We did." I should interject here that Sudbcrrs' is not a "burg in an ice-box" as John Clemens would have you believe. Rather, it is a thriving, industrial city which, for sheer activity, would put any city of comparable size in the States to shame. In other words. Sudberry seems never to have heard of the Depression. T could go into the reasons for this but I'm afraid my letter would more resemble a travelogue. At any rate. AVinter­meyer and I had a very pleasant stay with John and Dick Clemens. Both boys were employed at the brewery and seemed really to enj'oy their work. This is the spot for remarks such as "Who wouldn't enjoy working in a brcwerj-. etc," but the fact remains that John Clemens, '39. fills a rather important spot in the brewing of Silver Fcam." tlie beer that made Sudbury infamous. I mean, famous. John keeps records on the prog­ress made by each vat and other pertinent in­formation — sort of a daily play-by-play account.' 
" 'While at Sudbuo' wc had opportunitj-to see another of our N. D. cohorts. It seems that Fred Lcntz. class of '40, was in the Mackinac race, and did very fine in his trim cruising sloop. At the time of my \*isit in Sudbury, he was enjoy­ing a little post-race cruise in Upper Georgian Bay. To make a long story short John and Dick Clemens, J. Wintermeyer and I drove down to visit with Fred and spent the remainder of the day, as well as a goodly portion of the night, in recounting and rehashing our N. D. expiiriences. Only the tongues of this happy gathering were loosened by several cases of amber fluid discreetly brought along from Clemens brewer>*.' 
" 'Johnnie Wintermeyer is attending law school at Har%*ard where he is in the same moot trial club as Tom Mulligan. '33. This past summer I was also visited by Bud Vallcz, who was in town from Bay City on advertising business, Dick O'Mclia ISecretar>'*s note — "My God, again!"] 
dropped in while on his way home from the Fair 
in New York.* 
"When the leaves began to fall and school bells began to ring, I started in at Western Reserve University's Law School where I have been really working ever since. But the subject matter is most interesting and I really believe I did well in the semester examination — each one of which was four hours long, by the way. At this insti­tute of higher learning I also see Valentine Dcalc, MJV, at N. D. in '39; Jack Klisc, '38, and Jim McGettrick. '38. Rather frequently in the news is Ed Broscoc, '39. who is head football coach at St. Benedictine High in Cleveland. Just recently he was the judge in a beauty contest and the boy really showed talent in making his choice. Now he and the high school are sponsoring an exhibition by Notre D.ime's gymnastic team. Ed. if you will recall, was formerly a member of such a team himself.* 
" *Jaek McDonald. *39, former roomie of Greg Rice and Matt Merklc, is working for the Stan­dard Oil Co. in Cleveland Heights. I s-iw Tommy Wukovits and Paul Nowak at the Navy game here last fall, but, as I said at this letter's be­ginning, T have been sort of a recluse due to my law studies and can't really give you a universal view of Cleveland at this writing.' 
" 'The address of Frank Fitch, long sought in this column, along with that of Ray Schlcck, is 6311 Newgard Ave., Chicago. We found this on a letter sent sometime around the middle of Feb­ruary. Said Frank: 'Lights didn't go out for church tonight and so a few spare minutes. As for the N. D. fellows I seem to see very little of them. George John (Red) Neumann and I see a show together now and then. We live only a couple of blocks apart. Paul Kelly comes in to sec me even* couple of weeks: he lives on Wilson Ave., not far from here, with Eugene White. Phil Sheridan, with Studebaker, h.-.s been here a few-times. Work is fine: takes most of my time. Got a few breaks and guess all is well.' 
"Now except for a few cautious wonls about getting a letter from Ed O'Connor (we're under triple oath not to breathe a word of its contents) and we're nil through for another month- But if O'Connor doesn't mind too much we'd like to say that he is living in Woonsocket and also that Boy Heywood is studying for the C.S.C. priesthood at the Rolling Prairie Novitiate west of South Bend which he entered in February — which fact gets down on Its knees and begs a letter from Bob. Now before we're tempted to reveal more of the epistle of O'Connor (especially 1:1S-21) we take leave of that fair country, to return some other time. 
"The voice of the editorial becomes strident this month with the dem.ind that there bo more letters forthcoming. Before leaving school we got lots of promises, but they've >ecn. for the most part, as good as those of the British' oath to defend the territory of helpless neutrals like Poland and Finland. 
"Before the time v.e start grinding out this copy we want letters from Frank Cunningham. 
C. B. Nelson (unless he is really the disguised 
C. B. who got Smitty and the boss in such a tough spot), Andy Wilson, John Kohn, Tom Roche, Fred Digby (to whom Moon Mullins says 'hello'). Dick Anton, George Hailhcocfc, ^fark Mitchell. Hugh Gar^'cy and Charley McNamara. among others. And if Dick Anton doesn't write he is going to be ofl'icially pronounced dend. 
And now. Mr. Doolcy, that's just about all that the month has to offer; sorry that there isn't any more but — excuse number one for this one was due, and, number two. I've been pretty miserable for the past week with a bad cold and I am just now beginning to show my head above the hand­kerchiefs. Next month we do tetter, we hope." 
Loa Somers, insurancing in Indianapolis, says that he met Bob Scnilr at Bishop O'Han's pontifi­cal Nzss in the local cathedral on Feb. 11. Bob is in Indianapolis with the Whitlock Co., puV Itshers* representatives, Lou said. Lou's address is 1125 Circle Tower, c-o Michigan Mutual Lia­bility Company. 
While remembering the Association generously financially, Frank Ke0y ^vrote from Richmond, Va.: ''Charles R, Riley and myself are in our first year of medicine at the Medical College of Vn. (Richmond). .. . Ed Hughes, now residing in Memphis, formerly from Ohio, says the south-em women arc tops. , . . AI Brawn and Phil Maloncy working ia Washington, D. C." 
John Penrose, Bob Benavides and Chuck Thcisen also came to the assistance of the Association treasury. John is in the metallurgy department of the Allegheny-Ludlum Steel Co. in Watervliet, 
N. Y., and doing nicely. John hears that Jcrjy Moltnari, '36, is still N.YA. director in Oneonta, 
N. Y. 
Bob Benavides was married on Dec 16, was no­tified, while he was on his honeymoon in Miami, that he had passed the Texas Bar and was sworn in as Texas attorney on Jan- 5. His address is Box S3, Laredq, Texas. Bob said that Bob Sieg­fried, Tulsa, and Ray Barron, Detroit, both of *37, stopped in Laredo on Feb. 11, on their way to Mexico. 
Chuck Thcisen wrote the following fine note: "On Dec 28, Joe O'Connor, New York City: Steve Rogenski, Moline, III.: Jack O'Hara. Port Huron, Mich., and yours truly met in South Bend at their club rooms on North Hill St. It was the first annual meeting of the 'dirty four* of Lyons Sub. Joe McDonald, Providence. R. I., and Jim Snyder, Livonia, N. Y. (chief alternates) were sadly missed. All mentioned were of the class of '39. 
"Vince (Duke) Kieman, '39, and Joe O'Connor, '39, have dropped in foe week-ends since I've been in Salem, N. J. Our basketball team is doing very well. The football team won the county championship for the first time in 14 years." 
Those on the campus and those off the campus, and particularly the men of *39, are overjoyed with the magnificent accomplishments of Greg Rice during the winter track season. The modest little barrel chest, who spends his working days with the Indiana & Michigan Electric Co. in South Bend and most of his week-ends in the East, has piled up victories and new records so fast in the past few weeks that only a second Joe Pctritz could keep them in order. Notre Dnme is mighty proud of the country's premier distance runner. 
Reunions in June 

May 31, June I, and June 2 are 
the Days! 

Whether or not you hear from your Secretary with detailed plans, plan yourself to be here, because youMI enjoy it. 
1935! 1930! 1925! 1920! 1915! 1910! 1905! 1900! 189S! an d 1890! lead the 1940 Cavalcade of Classes. 
r

1 FORGET CONFUCIUS! 
i 

WE SAY: 
4 Alumni, to date, have contributed a 9-month budget to the Association. The 9 months ended March 1. 
;; The University year is 10-months. 
!^ The Association year is 12-months. 
y; It creates, as Father Lahcy's advertisers would readily compare, a bad case of financial Gap-osis. 
y Instead of boarding up the familiar doors of the Alumni Office, we are expected, in the barren 3 months H ahead, to 
R 

4 1. Arrange a bang-up Universal Notre Dame Night for 92 Clubs. 
.M 2. Bring before the Class of 1940 the merits of the Association. 
m 3. Conduct a rather intensive placement service for these same 1940 Seniors. 
H 4. Develop a placement program among our leading Clubs on the basis of the several Clubs already JL cooperating. y 5. Prepare a Commencement of the quality, from an alumni angle, to which the prodigal sons of pre­
5 vious years have become accustomed. 
I 6. Bring the 5-10-15-20-25-30-35-40-45 and 50-Year Classes back, with cooperation, Class Letters, etc. 
}i 7. Edit and distribute 3 issues of the ALUMIMUS (30,000 copies). 
g S. Keep our files of 35,000 cards, 10,000 addressograph plates, 5,000 individual folders, 92 Club lists, S and 50 Class lists, up to date. it 9. Maintain efficiency, and the larger part of the payroll, for a staff of four full-time and four student y workers. 'i 10. Handle the increasing contacts with secondary schools and prospective students which come in these ffi Spring months. 
H 11. Route several sets of 16 mm. 1939 football films, two of which the Alumni Association purchased to W promote Club programs, to the best mutual advantage. 
M ­

f^ 12. Write a minimum of 1,000 personal letters on almost as many questions, involving frequently re­
• search, lists, contacts, etc 

A 13. Arrange the banquet in May for the Class of 1940. 
g 14. Inject into the 1940 Commencement a constructive alumni note ^vhich has been in process of develop-S ment for some time, and which is particularly dear to the heart of the present President of the University, 1 Father O'Donnell. 
S 15. Aid in coordinating the many observances of the Clubs in March in memory of Knute K. Rockne, '14. 
fi 16. Aid the University in effecting its general program of University caliber, so that Notre Dame, with p a little over a million dollars in endowment, keeps its place in the van of American education, among colleges A and universities with endowments of multiple figures. f| Now, as we were saying before the 16 points so rudely interrupted, our economic Gap-osis is not fatal. W The cure is a little zipper, in getting in that contribution for 1939-40 — anything from ^1 to a million. |j And if you'd like to be turned back to Confucius for a parting remark — Confucius say to General S Custer: ^ Don't underestimate our minimum, General — Sitting Bull was once just a buck. fi Jim Armstrong 
^ I'.S. You can use the return mail for that contribution, or, if you don't trust Ambrose O'Conncll's postmasters, just wire in the amount. If M you haven't the 1939-40 membership card, a sort of episcopal red, then just assume you arc eligible for the above sUERCstion. 
^ P.S. 2 Dues-paid members need not wait lone for a new and startling innovation which will permit them to join this happy thronRini; to 
the treasor>' for the 1940-41 contributions. Start saving now so that the May mailing will break all records and save us a few hundred 
dollars in 2nd and 3rd reminders. 








