The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
a'*<'jatl.llFairv<iT-Trl~lrii'ii' i i«nniiiitiii'w*;Bni^^kaiijWBi*!)iit-tMS»!»i^^ 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
Centenary History Published 
(Page 3) 
First December 

r'B 
Commencement 
(Page 5) 

Gift of $100,000 by 
I. A. O'Shaughnessy (ji 
(Page 7) 
Commencement Address 
(Page 9) 

Baccalaureate Sermon :i 
(Page 11) 

At Notre Dame in late January, Capt. H. P. Burnett, U.S.N., Inspects Prospective Ensigns 
Vol. 2! FEBRUARy, 1943 No. 3 
M 
it044. k*uuit aioui .... 
The University of Notre Dame? 
There's a lot to know from the sport pages and articles Hall back in the '80*5 by Zahm who, in off moments, that have appeared. was handy in a dormitory pillow fi^t? 
But what do you know about the thousands of litde So many people have talked about the incidents and happenings on the campus, the inspiring, spirit of Notre Dame, people who have amusing, heart-rending, episodes that have gone to never lived in that spirit. They are out­make up die elusive Notre Dame spirit? siders who have never felt the pulsing life and elusive power that cannot be defined, scarcely described, but which must be felt.
Do you want to hear the story of Willie Ord and his disciplinary difficulties? His costly swim in the St. Joe? His fistic encounters with the professor of drawing? 
On January 15, 1943, a new history of Notre Dame was released to die reading public. It is a story written How would you like to read about the attempt to by one who has shared the campus life for 25 years. 
suppress the wearing of the green on March 17, and And into his frank and witty portrayal of campus life, how Tim O'SulIivan climbed out on the dome and die intimate stories bdiind the story, the audior. Rev. 
with a battered comet played "St. Patrick's Day in the Ardiur J. Hope, C.S.C., '20, has poured the living Morning" before anyone could lay hands on him? 
spirit of Notre Dame. 
Would the stories of student life during the Civil War 
"Notre Dame — One Hundred Years" is 
interest you? There were plenty of southerners at 
the title of this new history. It is a vol­
Notre Dame in diose years. Were there any fights? 

ume of about five hundred pages, having
Were diere! 


a complete bibliography and index. It is 
handsomely illustrated with 36 gravure Ever hear of Albert Zahm, you engineers? Would you prints. The University Press is publishing care to hear about the experiments conducted in Science the volume which sells for $4.00 a copy. 
ORDER BLANK  n  
The University Press, Notre Dame, Ind.  
Hope, Please send C.S.C., at $4.00  a  copy  copies of NOTRE DAME-ONE postpaid. Remittance is enclosed.Name  HUNDRED .  YEARS,  by  Arthur  / .  I * I •  
Address..  

City..


1_ •J 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1, 1939, at the Postoffiee, Notre Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24. 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. 
James E. Azmalrong. '25, Editor; William B. DooUy, '26. Managing Editor 
VOL 21 FEBRUARy, 1943 No. 3 
Centenary History of University Appears 
Jan. 15, 1943, can become one of the red letter days in Notre Dame's history. It marked the publishing of Notre Dame —100 Years, by Kev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., '20 (University Press, 482 pp. $4). Elsewhere in this issue an order blank for ordering the book is available for alumni use. 
Most of the ills to which Notre Dame is heir arise from the failure of the peo­ple to realize the true picture of the University. That includes students, facul­ty and alumni as well as outsiders. 
Father Hope's book, the first history of Notre Dame in 50 years, is a scholarly treatment of a rich chronicle of signifi­cant events. The book is heavily docu­mented with an impressive bibliography. It is based on Father Hope's own long acquaintance with the University ar­chives, and some eight years of compiling this data by Prof. James Corbett and former Prof. William Farrell. Father Hope himself has spent 14 months of intensive writing to produce the volume. A 24-page supplement of seldom-seen pictures of historical significance adds greatly to the interest and value. 
In 1893 the Golden Jubilee of the Uni­versity was commemorated by a history written by the late Judge Timothy How­ard, alumnus, faculty member and Indi­ana jurist. It has long provided an inter­esting and valuable source of informa­tion, but even in the treatment of that first half century. Father Hope's analy­sis of the invaluable archives of the Uni­versity and the Congregation have re­vealed much that has not been known before. 
It is in the early sections, too, that Father Hope's very able literary style is at its height. His character treatments of 
Rev, Arthur J. Hope. CS.C.'20, Is 
Author; Alumni Will Rnd New Book 
a Rich Source of N. D. Baclcsround 
Sisters, and laymen, who pioneered at Notre Dame, are definite contributions to good reading as well as to history. 
Thirty-two chapters in all, the book divides rather naturally into the high­lights of the 14 presidencies that covered that first 100 years. Father O'Donnell providing in his 14th position the transi­tion from the first to the second hundred years. Actually he is the 13th man to hold the post. Father Corby having served two separated terms. 
Alumni will be far better alumni for the reading of this record of the develop­ment of the University from which, in recent years, so much has been expected, so much taken for granted. Students and faculty will have a deeper understanding of their responsibilities and opportunities as they study the struggle that laid the early cornerstones. 
Too few, even those close to Notre Dame, appreciate now the many signifi­cant achievements that dotted the Uni­versity's record long before athletic fame had won a nation's attention. Albert Zahm, Jerome Green, and Rev. Julius Nieuwiand, CS.C, have been heralded, it is true. But many older alumni are almost alone in their memories of Father Hudson, Father John A. Zahm, Father Kirsch, Father Schier, Brother Alexan­der, Brother Basil, Brother Paul, Profes­sor Edwards, Professor Lyons, Maurice Francis Egan, Austin O'Malley, and 
Father Sorin, of the Brothers, of the Father Arthur J. Hop*. CS.C Author ei Cantamair Kalecy 
many other religious, laymen, and visit­ing celebrities like Cardinal Gibbons, Archbishop Ireland, Archbishop Keane, and the other giants of Church and edu­cation and country whose visits then were tribute to scholastic achievement, and spiritual influence. 
Father Hope will delight alumni with several other qualities. His appreciation of the men who have made Notre Dame is sensitive and his treatment generous, but he has not pulled necessary punches. The early years are presented in their vigor rather than glamor. And through­out the book there is a delicate but keen sense of humor that relieves and authen­ticates many of the incidents which it accompanies. 
In the last, modern period. Father Hope is naturally and excusably reluc­tant to attach historical significance to people and events which time has not j'et measured. Since this is the period which the great majority of alumni also know, there will be much room for discussion and revision of emphasis, omission, etc. 
Father Hope was a classmate of Alfred 
C. Kyan, first executive secretary of the Alimini Association. His treatment of the Association, therefore, has a first-hand and personal significance. Much more can be written that will provide an added chapter, of the long and significant per­iod of development from 1868 to 1922, and of several achievements of a scat­tered alumni that have much more than surface implications. Naturally, in the condensation and selectivity of a general history, these details must be left to the several agencies to develop in their own channels. The new volume provides a springboard from which many more val­ues will enjoy a launching. 
Alumni will be amazed when they fm­ish the book to find how much has been packed into a relatively few pages. The readableness of the book is such that its length is greatly shortened. There is an index that speeds up the specific interest of a reader or permits him to re-read a passage quickly. And as previously noted, the sources of Father Hope's material, in the publications, the archives, news­paper files, and books, provide a thorough and clear reference library that will have all Notre Dame writers of the future in the author's debt. 
The Alumni Office and the ALUMNUS have tried in many ways to keep alumni informed of progress during the last 20 years. And by feature, picture and refer­ence, and class notes from the older class­es we have tried to paint a richer back­ground for this current scene. But noth­ing that has been done at Notre Dame since 1893 can do as much to enshrine new volume, Notre Davie—100 Years. It the real Notre Dame in the hearts of all is the Book-of-the-Century for Notre alumni and friends as the reading of this Dame men. 

TWO NOTRE DAME MEN DECORATED 
::;. :1,....- I.is_. : ..^. • .. 
LIEUT, (JG) DANIEL SHEEDY 

Extraordinary heroism in the Battle of Midway won for a Notre Dame man from a "Notre Dame family," Lieut. (jg) Daniel C. Sheedy, '39, Buffalo, N. Y., the Navy Cross. 
Dan is now a flight instructor at Cor­pus Christi, Texas. He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Michael M. Sheedy and the brother of Ensign Michael M., Jr., '35, 
J. Paul, '37, and K. Joseph, '42. The elder Mr. Sheedy served in France as a cap­tain of engineers in World War I. 
The citation accompanying the medal read as follows: 
"For extraordinary heroism as pilot of an airplane of Fighting Squadron Three in action against enemy Japanese forces in the Battle of Midway on June 4, 1942. 
"Participating as one of a six-plane fighter escort for our torpedo planes in an attack on three enemy aircraft car­riers. Ensign Sheedy, upon reaching his objective, was viciously intercepted by a superior force of Japanese fighters. 
"By courageously maintaining position in formation on his section leader despite tremendous counterfire, he skillfully pre­vented the enemy planes from pressing home their attacks. 
"Subsequently losing his leader in a cloud, he singlehandedly fought off an attack by three Japanese fighters, shot 
LIEUT. ARTHUR D . MADDALENA 
For "constant vigilance and conduct­ing himself with extraordinary courage in the face of great danger," Lieut. Ar­thur D. Maddalena, '41, Westfield, Mass., was in late December awarded the Sil­ver Star Medal by President Franklin D. Roosvelt, the Navy announced. 
Art won his award as a member of an armed guard attached to a merchant ves­sel. His present address, according to Alumni Office records, is Armed Guard Base, U.S.N. Receiving Station, South Brooklyn, N. Y. 
"During hazardous engagements with enemy dive bombers, torpedo planes and submarines," the citation accompanying the medal said, "the ship is credited with holding convoy damage to a minimum by driving off numerous and almost continu­ous attacks with effective barrage." 
one down, and himself badly wounded, flew his severely damaged plane back to a safe landing aboard one of our car­riers. 
"His superb airmanship and gallant de­votion to duty were in keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Naval Service." 
The citation was signed for the Presi­dent by Frank Knox, secretary of the Navy. 

Aviation Cadet Cecil Jordan receive his law degree from Father Hugh ODonnelL president at the Dec. 20 Commencement Others 
in the picture ore, left to right Father Thomas Steiner, provincial: Bishop John F. NolL Fort Wayne: Father John Lane, assistant direc­
tor of studies; Mr. Jeffers, Commencement speaker, and Dean J. E. McCarthy. 



Military Note Features Commencement 
William M. JefFers Is Speaker; Ceremonies Are Held on 
Dec. 20 in Navy Drill Hall; Traditional Class Day Exercises 
in Washington Hall; Next Commencement in September. 
In the bristling, military atmosphere of the United States Navy Drill Hall, with one of the federal government's foremost wartime executives as the principal speaker, the 99th Commencement of the University was conducted on the frigid Sunday afternoon of Dec. 20. 
Three hundred and ninety men of the class of 1943 received degrees, and many of them left almost immediately to join the armed forces of their country. The vast majority of the class will be in military uniforms within a short time; some others, as employees of gi-eat de­fense plants, will be putting their techni­cal education to the best possible use in industry. 
The speaker, as the University con­ducted its first December Commencement in history, was William M. Jeffers, rub­ber administrator of the War Production Board and president of the Union Pacific System. Mi\ Jeffers address is printed in its entirety elsewhere in this issue. 
The Solemn Pontifical Baccalaureate Mass, in the Navy Drill Hall on Sunday morning, was celebrated by Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, with music by the University choir of Moreau Seminary. The Bacca­laureate Sermon was to have been given by Most Eev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., auxiliary bishop of the Army and Navy diocese, but because his train was hours late in reaching South Bend, Bish­op O'Hara did not arrive on the campus until the academic procession was leav­ing the Drill Hall following the Mass. The ALUMNUS is nevertheless happy to print in this issue the magnificent ser­mon which Bishop O'Hara had prepared for the occasion. 
The thermometer was in the zero region, snow was piled high everywhere, there was no flag-raising, and there was no accompanying alumni reunion. Other­wise, the December, 1942, Commencement was, in the essentials, the familiar June 
Commencement of other years. The ceremonies began on Saturday morning, Dec. 19, with the traditional senior last visit to Sacred Heart Church and the class day exercises were con­ducted in Washington Hall at 10 A.M. The valedictory was by Kichard K. Pa­desky, LaCrosse, Wis., and the class ode by John D. Hunt, Brooklyn, N. Y. John 
H. Tallett, North Chicago, 111., president of the class, made the presentation of an American flag to the University—it was blessed following the Baccalaureate Mass of Sunday—and Eev. Hugh O'Donndl, C.S.C, president, accepted it for the University. This ceremony was advanced from the traditional Washington Birth­day date. 
On Saturday afternoon the Commence­ment guests had a choice between the Gilbert and Sullivan operetta, "Pa­tience," presented in Washington' Hall' by the Notre Dame Savoyards directed, by Prof. Cecil Birder, and a fencing match in the gymnasium between the University of Chicago and Notre Dame. 
Saturday evening the basketball game in the gym, involving Purdue and Notre Dame, attracted a great many of the guests. (Because the basketball game had been scheduled and the gymnasium could not, on that account, be prepared for Commencement, the Navy generously consented to have the main Commence­ment ceremonies in its new Drill Hall just to the rear of the gym.) 
Class Day awards were as follows: the Meehan Medal for English Essay, Jo­seph E. Hillebrand, Toledo; the Hoynes Award for general excellence in law, Harry L. Murray, Franklin, Pa.; the 
J. Sinnott Meyers Bourse for Journal­ism, Charles J. Kleibacker, Cullman, Ala.; the William Mitchell Award for PlayAvrlting, Robert D. LeMense, Iron Mountain, Mich.; the Byron V. Kanaley Prize for the senior monogram man ad­judged "the most exemplary as a student and as a leader of men," Oliver H. Hunt­er, Erie, Pa. 

A/aUe 2>ame HooUi 

>»»>>o»4»»»»»»»»frfr»e"»»»»»»> 
Nova Scotia, Land of Cooperators by Leo 
R. Ward, C.S.C. 207 pp. Sheed & Ward. $2.50. 
Father Ward's newest book has sold out its first edition long since. In the words of one of the ablest reviewers of it. Rev. John S. Kennedy in the Hartford Transcript, ". . . the striking thing about this work is its emphasis on people rather than techniques. There must be coopei-a­tors before there can be cooperation. There must be cooperation before there can be cooperatives. It is in the people and their spirit of self-help and mutual help that Father Ward is principally in­terested. It is the people and their spirit that the reader will principally remem­ber. . . . 
"Father Ward has the eye and the pen of a novelist (or is it a poet? More than once one thinks of E. A. Robinson) when it comes to observing and delineating people. He can catch their distinctive flavor in a few wonderfully right words. . . . Father Ward saw what cooperation can accomplish. He does not overdraw the picture. He looked on it with cool ob­jectivity, and it is in the same way that he shows it to the reader. . . . 

"This is a refreshing, invigorating book. It runs counter to the more and more ^videly accepted notion that govern­ment must take over an ever greater part of individual and family life in order to be the impersonal savior of all. . . . 
The Cervantes Medal for Spanish, Robert Corrigan, Hulmeville, Pa.; the Jacques Medal for Fine Art, Raymond 
F. Wilmer, Toledo; the Andrew F. Ker­vick Gold Medal for Drawing, Edward L. Holland, Stirling, N. J.; the Miles W. O'Brien Prize for mechanical drawing, Robert C. Blackmun, Niles, Mich.; the John J. O'Brien Prize for shop work, Robert G. Lancaster, South Bend; the George L. O'Brien Prize for chemistry shared equally by Robert C. Blackmun and Robert W. Degenhart, Buffalo, N. Y. 
The Gallitzen A. Farabaugh Prize for high scholarship in law, Theodore P. Frericks, Marion, O.; the Ralph Thom­as Sollitt Prize for architecture, Robert 
B. Hackner, La Crosse, Wis.; and the Gertrude S. Sollitt Prize for architecture, James J. Gallagher, Schenectady, N. Y. 
The "class of 1944" will, under the accelerated progi'am currently in opera­tion at Notre Dame, be graduated next September. There will, therefore, be no large Commencement next spring. 
"I must confess that I took up this book with no great enthusiasm. I feared it would be stiff with technical details and statistics. Completely to betray my ignorance, I may as well go the limit and say that I felt cooperatives might be all very well for the people of some remote region. But I at once fell under the power of Father Ward's method: that is, ac­quainting the reader with the people, making the people live and speak in his pages. And I went on to discover that the great thing about this movement is its vision of a new society and its suc­cess in making the worn husks of men into human beings. Whoever, wherever we are, we all need that." 
Notre Dame men have a special inter­est in the recent and widely-acclaimed book of Col. Carlos P. Romulo, LL.D. '35, I Saiv the Fall of the Philippines. As per­sonal aide to Gen. Douglas MacArthur, chief press relations officer for the Amer­ican and Filipino troops on Corregidor and Bataan, Pulitzer Prize winner in journalism and former editor and pub­lisher of a chain of Philippine news­papers. Colonel Romulo is one of the most distinguished of living Filipinos. 
Colonel Romulo gave the momentous address, in December, 1935, at the special convocation in which President Franklin 
D. Roosevelt, as well as the Colonel, re­ceived an honorary LL.D. The convoca­tion was ai-ranged to honor Philippine independence. 
With a price on his head. Colonel Ro­mulo was the last man to leave Corregi­dor before the Japanese overran it. 
First Man Into Reich on First Ali-American Raid 
A Notre Dame man, 1st Lieut. Edward 
J. Hennessy, '40, of the Army Air Corps, was the first United States airman to cross the border of Germany on Jan. 27 in the first all-American air raid on the reich, according to several different news­paper reports. 
But Ed wants no special credit for his distinction. Said he, in the story which he wrote for his "home town" Chicago Sun of Jan. 29: "That baloney about be­ing the first American plane into Ger­many was just a circumstance. It was just a case of luck... ." 
Ed finished his flying training and was commissioned a second lieutenant at the Lubbock Army Flying School, Lubbock, Texas, on July 3, 1942. 
1ST. LIEUT. EDWARD J. HENNESSY, '40 
DEAN POUND AT N. D. 
The Notre Dame Law School was hon­ored for the second successive year with the presence and enlightening lectures of Roscoe Pound, dean emeritus of the Harvard Law School. The lectures, con­sisting of a series of four separate talks, were concluded Jan. 29. 
Under the title "Fifty Years Growth of American Law" Dean Pound traced the history as well as the possible future of "Contracts, Torts, Personal Property, and Equity." 
The Pond lectures, given in the Law Building auditorium, were attended by many of the South Bend lawyers as well as students of the Notre Dame Law School and other guests. 




^. A. O'SUatufluieUif Qiited. $100,000 4 ^ 4Z««e AiU 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell. C.S.C, president oi the Uni­versity, announces through the Department of Public Relations the establishment of the O'Shaughnessy Fine Arts Foundation in the College of Arts and Let­ters. The benefactor who made the Foundation possi­ble is L A. O'Shaughnessy of St. Paul. Minn.; whose generous gift of $100,000 was received shortly before Christmas. 
The O'Shaughnessy Fine Arts Foundation, concern­ing which further details will be published later, be­comes part of Notre Dame's plan, being carried out through the co-operation of friends and benefactors, to strengthen the College of Arts and Letters in the face of a growing tendency toward the purely tech­nical and vocational aspects of higher education. This is in keeping with the policy of the University as set forth by Father O'Donnell at the first student convoca­tion after the United States entered World War 11: 
"In this crisis the University has two duties: The first is the obvious duty of helping to overthrow the false principles that make man the creature of the state. The second is to train men for post-war leader­ship. Peace, when it comes, must be a lasting peace built upon fundamental morality with its concept of rights and duties as they apply to individuals and nations. To neglect the second obligation, or to be placed in such position that it cannot be fulfilled, defeats the purpose of the first." 
In announcing the Foundation, Father O'Donnell said: "Mr. O'Shaughnessy's tangible expression of his regard for Notre Dame and her work has made everyone connected with the University very happy this Christmas season, regardless of the problems that confront us as a result of the war. 
"Much of higher education, especially during the past generation, has been heading in the direction oi both specialization and secularism, and unfortunately the present world crisis has accelerated its speed. But thoughtful Amer­icans like Mr. O'Shaughnessy share with Notre Dame the realization that unless the technological subjects are com­plemented by the liberal arts and sciences we will develop mechanics, not leaders. And only with proper leadership can we make—and keep—peace. 
"With the help of the Blessed Mother and the support of such good friends, we shall carry on during this difficult period, ever mindful of our basic philosophy of education. 
which is so necessary for the preservation of the American way of life." 
Mr. O'Shaughnessy has had a long-standing interest in education and various philanthropies which has brought him recognition from many sources, both dvic and religious, and he is especially well known for his work in Catholic circles. He is a Knight of the Holy Sepulchre, and also a Papal Chamberlcdn of Cape and Sword. During the Euchar­istic Congress held at St Paul in 1940 he acted as Cham­berlain to Dennis Cardinal Dougherty, Papal Delegate. 
Mr. O'Shaughnessy, who was bom at Stillwater, Miim.. is a graduate of St. Thomas College. He has been active in the oil business for many years, and is currently serving on the Petroleum Industry War CounciL Mr. and Mrs. O'Shaugh­nessy have five diildren. one of whom. Donald, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters at the University, recently received a lieutenant's commission. He has received orders to report to Camp loseph T. Robinson. Arkansas. 

Not Yet, Mr. Chips! 
By Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, CS.C, President of the University 
Because of Notre Dame's contribution to the educational life of America, and because of her philosophical traditions which are more needed now than ever be­fore, I regard the part that Notre Dame must take in preserving the liberal arts as one of the most important tasks that faces her in her second century. Accord­ingly, I have appointed a committee to study the problem in the light of current conditions, including the lowering of the draft age, and in the light of future con­ditions, in so far as we can foresee them. We shall spare no effort in the develop­ment of a program that will provide mental and moral discipline. And religion will be the cornerstone of that program. Perhaps what we have in mind -will necessitate a change, both as to curri­culum and students. But possibilities that are already apparent prompt me to pre­dict tangible good from more intensive work in arts and letters in which stu­dents receive the philosophical training basic in a system of education that teach­es men not only how to make a living, but at the same time gives them a phil­osophy that teaches them how to live. 
At present the emphasis in colleges and universities is on preparing young men for commissions in the armed forces and in giving them the highly specialized skills that the war demands. Notre Dame, of course, is doing her part. Room has been made on the campus for a Naval Reserve Midshipmen's School. We were giving courses in defense work long be­fore the United States entered the war. Our engineers and scientists are literally working day and night on projects that will hasten the day of victory. This is as it should be. It is fortunate that those divisions of our institutions of higher learning that are devoted to technological, scientific, and professional training have been able to adapt their curricula and facilities to war needs so quickly and ef­ficiently. Nevertheless, the fact remains that the permanent unchanging purpose of a university is to educate the whole man in the finest traditions of Christian culture, to help him mature his faculties of intellect and will, and not to give him a merely mechanical training, however much that training may be needed at the moment. Science and engineering, un-im­plemented with the disciplines of philoso­phy, history, the languages, and allied subjects, develop mechanicians, not edu­cated men with the qualities of leader­
ship. Only by maintaining a proper bal­
ance between the liberal arts on the one hand and technolog^ical subjects on the other can we hope for the moral and in­tellectual stability that will prevent eco­nomic, social, and political chaos after the war. England and Canada, whose exper­ience of war is greater than ours, are still making an heroic effort to preserve the character of their colleges and uni­versities. Surely we can make a similar effort in the United States. 
If we are fighting a global war to de­fend the God-given rights of man, as set forth in the Declaration of Independ­ence, and so well put on numerous occa­sions by President Roosevelt, it is incum­bent on education to train students in a knowledge of those rights and their cor­responding duties. Education is the only competent agency in the United States that can do this. Hence, while gearing our educational program to the necessity of winning the war, we cannot, we must not, shelve the liberal arts which bring a student into intimate contact with the best that has been written and spoken in the past. An error in judgment now will increase to a dangerous degree the spe­cialization which already threatens to bankrupt intellectual life in the United States. 
Some critics have objected that gradu­ates in liberal arts have not the ground­work in science and mathematics re­quired by the armed forces. In so far as the objection is valid, it because pure science and pure mathematics, which are traditionally part of a well-rounded lib­eral arts program, were not properly stressed in the 25 years that followed the injudicious revision of college curricula during and after World War I. The ob­jection can be removed, not by discarding the liberal arts, but by taking the neces­sary steps to strengthen them,'thereby making them more valuable to students. 
In recent months we have heard and read a great deal about plans for the post-war life. Reference has been made to "economic security" and "political brotherhood," phrases that can mean ab­solutely nothing unless we know what transpired in world affairs during past centuries. One cannot get such knowledge from a galvanometer or a slide-rule, im­portant though these instruments are in their proper places. This knowledge can come from an apperception of world • thought and world leadership as found in the basic subjects of the liberal arts. 
It is imperative, therefore, not only to preserve the liberal arts during the war, but also to strengthen them whenever necessary. Otherwise, we invite the risk of winning the war and actually losing what we are fighting for. No nation can have true leadership unless its citizens are trained to think properly and act reasoiiably. Today the rigorous disci­plines of the liberal arts are more than ever the only solid foundation for the education of the free man. 
Just now our national energies—our natural resources, money, and manpower —must be directed to military victory. Our men must have what President Roos­evelt has called "a mounting tide of guns, tanks, planes, and ships." That is ele­mentary. My thesis, however, is that in our concentration upon the means of de­feating the Axis Powers, we are losing sight of our ultimate goal, which is a strong nation that is guided by Christian principles because its people, as individu­als, live Christian lives; secondly, that our lack of perspective is a direct result of a widespread rejection of God and the natural law; and, thirdly, that the most direct route to restored moral and intel­lecual probity—and hence to a lasting peace based upon charity and justice—is through the liberal arts as taught ac­cording to the American heritage of edu­cation. 
It would be tragic indeed if national exediency, which requires a temporary emphasis on technology, should help to destroy the American educational heri­tage, which is essentially Christian. Un­happily, the tradition had already been weakened, long before this war was de­clared, by secularists whose insidious campaign finally succeeded in divorcing relig^ion from education. Their objective has always been the education of youth in the light of purely present conditions without regard for his integrity as a human being. Examine that trend in edu­cational theory, note its omission of a moral foundation, observe the training of youth solely for the needs of the state, and determine, if you can, wherein it dif­fers from the educational theory of the lotalitarians. 

Mind-power, as well as man-power, is necessary not only for winning the war, but also for winning th» peace. The cur­rent propaganda that the liberal arts be suspended for the duration, if success­ful in its purpose, may well be the death blow to all that remains of the historical concept of Christian education in the United States. Then, in so far as Amer­ican democratic institutions are con­cerned, we will have traded substance for shadow. Then, complete darkness will have enveloped our country. 


The Coimnencement Address 
By The Honorable William M. Jeffers. LLD., '42 "" ,; 
Rubber Administrator of the War Production Board Telb Qass of 1943 on December 20 that "Sound Education Has a G>ntinuin3 Vital Part to Play in the Forward Movement of This Nation." 
I have been pretty well identified as president of the Union Pacific Railroad Company and as Kubber Director of the national administration. Incidentally, it took 47 years of railroading, up from call boy through all the intermediate stages, to reach the presidency of the railroad, while, without any warning. President Koosevelt appointed me Rub­ber Director. About all I knew about rubber was that the busses of our sub­sidiary bus companies ran on rubber and that we had tire contracts with big rub­ber companies. 
Coming suddenly into this new job, however, I had the benefit of much or­ganization experience behind me. I had gained the necessary self-confidence to tackle a new thing and learned some­thing about thinking things through and getting things done. These are essentials to success in any undertaking. 
Neither the presidency of a great rail­road nor the serious responsibility of our national emergency entitles me to a place on this program or to be a part of the centenary celebration of this illustrious and widely influential institution of learning. I cannot qualify on the ground of being a college man. In the hard school which I attended since my fourteenth year we received promotion if we made the grade; or expulsion, if we didn't. Still I have the temerity to think I can quali­fy for a place here. I do not come to the doors of this institution as a stranger. 
I challenge any student or aliminus to get more of a thrill out of the name "Notre Dame" than I do. No better grandstand quarterback than I ever sat in the stands at your football games. For years, Notre Dame football has been one of my pet enthusiasms. 
Notre Dame is a great football univer­sity— and principally for one essential, far-reaching reason: Notre Dame has always aimed to excel in all of its under­takings. Football is incidental—it is a branch of education. The prime object of Notre Dame has always been and is to build men—^morally, mentally and physi­cally. 
Our old friend, Knute Rockne—and I include myself as a friend because I still cherish my personal acquaintance with him — Knute Rockne had the answer. "Kitty" Gorman, for several years a line coach at Creighton and now head coach at Washington University, told me of his introduction to Rockne. Gorman had had prep experience in football. When he came to Notre Dame, he was, in the course of routine, directed to Rockne's office where he announced his desire to play football. 
HON. WILUAM M. JEFFEBS 

Shares N.D. Interest in Synthetic Rubber 
"So you want to play football," said Rockne, "and j^ou came to Notre Dame to play football. Notre Dame isn't a football school. It is an educational institution where they educate men. If all you want is football, get out." Gorman stayed. 
Rockne was more than a great teacher of football. To my mind he was a superb builder of character. 
While my introduction to Notre Dame may have been through the stadium gates, yet by a cimiulative process, I gained a clear and intimate insight into the University's objectives and learned something of the men who make up the 
smooth - running, effective organization that is realizing those eminently worth­while objectives. I place a higher yalne upon my Mraidship with Father, now Bishop O'Hara, former president and Father 01)onnd], now president. Both of these men possess, in a marked d^free, those scholarly attainments and execu­tive capabilities which have cmsistaiily been the attributes of men who have headed up this institution since it was founded by the Very Reverend Edward Sorin 100 years ago. 
A century is a short period in the his­tory of the world, but it is a surprisingly long span of time in the history of this young nation. In 1842, John Tyla was president of the United States, and he was the tenth incumbent of that office. Twenty-two presidents have succeeded him. In 1842, Chicago as an incorporated city was only five years old and had a population of about 5,000. Indianapolis had been the capital of Indiana about a score of years and numbered less than a thousand people. 
Four years before the founding of this University, Horse invented the tele­graph, and two years after its founding, the first telegraph line was built—^be­tween Baltimore and Washington. The first railroad in the United States using ­locomotives for power was put into oper­ation just ten years before Notre Dame was founded. The Baltimore and Ohio had completed 61 miles of road located between Baltimore and Frederick, Hd. It took a full day to travel this distance. Up the grades the cars were pulled by horses first and later by windlasses. In 1869, 27 years after Notre Dame sprang into being, the Union Padfie was com­pleted and joined with the Central Pacific to span the continent. 
In the past hundred years, with the army of Notre Dame graduates who have gone into the professional and business world and spread thonselves throuj^ every quarter of the country, who can es­timate the broad and beneficial influence this University has had on the up-' building of this nation? The influence of men trained as you graduates have been trained goes even beyond your lives. 
Today is a happy day for you with the credentials in your hands evidencing the successful completion of your training period. 
A Notre Dame diploma is more than a piece of paper to be framed. It is a certi­ficate of merit, bestowed as a reward for hard work, and as an assurance to the world that, profiting by able direction, you have developed the ability to think for yourselves and to think in a straight line. As you go out into the world, keep that ability polished by use. The country, the world, needs it. 
A Continuing Vital Part 
Those who have gone before you have worked well, but they have not finished the job. Your function is to carry the progress of this country forward. There will be serious work to do and a grand opportunity for you to do it. For the industrious, thinking, right-living young man the future holds as many rewards as any period in our nation's history. 
I congratulate each and every one of you on your achievements. I bid you go forth with a strong heart, a reliance on Almighty God to guide you, a profound belief in the future of this country and a warm devotion to the principles which have made it great. 
The past century has been one of phe­nomenal progress. It is not entirely ac­curate to say that Notre Dame has kept pace with that progress. It is nearer the truth to say that the progress was paced by Notre Dame. I use Notre Dame as a symbol of sound education. 
Sound education has a continuing vital part to play in the forward movement of this nation. Education is sound when it regards the whole man. Just as a foot­ball player will be lopsided if his mental processes are not stimulated and devel­oped, so an intellectual giant is lopsided if his moral and spiritual character is atrophied. 
Sound education builds character, and in this country now and forever more it must build patriotic character. It must stress the fundamentals which underlie the integrity of this country. We must not allow this war to distract us from these fundamentals. The impressive truth is that they are what we are fight­ing for—else there is no justifiable reason for fighting. 
Steering a forward-looking patriotic course through war is no new experience to Notre Dame. The Mexican War, the Civil War, the Spanish War, World War I, all came within the span of her his­tory, and her sons have been among the nation's heroes. As an American institu­tion whose life is devoted to the ideals of America grounded in the Constitution she has regarded war as an episode in the nation's history, disrupting for a time the even tenor of the nation's prog­ress for the good of humanity, but at the same time strengthening the hold of the country on the hearts of its citizens. Like in a family, so in a nation, trouble seems to be useful in binding more closely in united strength those who compose it. 
In times of war we have an opportun­ity to weed out the phoney patriot who in peace times seems to get by because our vigilance is relaxed. Some years ago, before that grand galaxy of erstwhile national defenders, the G.A.R., had grad­ually disappeared from our citizenship, it was the custom to have these heroes of the Civil War address our schools on Memorial Days. On one such patriotic anniversary a veteran was addressing the pupils of one of our Nebraska schools in a small western city with which I am very familiar. The entire student body had assembled in the largest classroom. Back of the teachers rostrum which was occupied by the speaker, a large United States flag covered a considerable area of wall. The speaker in the course of his address, waxed eloquent upon the subject of the flag. Pointing dramatically to the flag behind him he vociferously ques­tioned: "What is that flag there for? Can you tell me what that flag is there for?" 
A little hand shot up and a small boy­ish voice piped: "Mister, I can." 
"Very well, then little man," said the speaker, "you tell us." 
Honesty and innocence were written across that childish face as he replied: "It's to hide the place where plaster came off." 
The Nation Has Gone Forward 

In war time we are inclined to look behind the displayed flag to see if the plaster is intact. Sometimes, in this coun­try, thank God, not often, we find the place where the plaster came off. Some­times under the outward misleading signs of patriotism we find the racketeer, the profiteer, the slacker and the destruc­tive critic of Americanism who hides behind the flag with his feet firmly planted in American soil against any attempt to remove him to another soil where his blatant theories of government might find wder sympathy but where his freedom to shout them would be sore­ly jeopardized. The government is aim­ing at those phoney patriots and I believe stands a very good chance of finding where the plaster came off. 
There is another class of citizen who creates a depressing atmosphere but who must not be confused with the counter­feit patriot. This type of citizen is afflict­ed with the war melancholia—almost a phobia. His patriotism is real enough, he loves his country, but he is sure that win or lose the country will never be the same. Its foundations will crumble. Its superstructure will collapse with the damaged foundation. 
Every war we have been through since 
we became a republic has generated a ' more or less widespread epidemic of this war melancholia but each time when peace has come the disease has disap­peared. The sorry pictures proceeding from the over-fervid imaginations have not materialized into gruesome realities. 
The nation has gone forward. 
Democracy I* An Organization 
There is only one way these distressing prophesies have any chance of being ful­filled and that is if we lose. The Amer-can is not a loser. He never has been a loser and as long as he stays an Amer­ican, believing in and fighting for Amer­ican fundamentals, he never will be a loser. 
We are told of the necessity for plan­ning for post-war times. The advocacy of post-war planning has its critics. In a sense these critics are right. The present, pressing, all-important job is to win the war, and the way to success in any un­dertaking, be it individual, business, com­munity or national, be it private or pub­lic, in peace time or in war time, is to spend all our energy, focus all our power of concentration, on the job that is in front of us. You can't do tomorrow's job right with today's job undone. 
Here is the truth you boys can burn in­to your souls if you want to stand out from the crowd. It is the man who gets things done that rides the crest. This war job is a tremendous job. But if we concentrate on it, if we throw every ounce of our energy into it, it can and will be done. 
The success of every vast undertaking has been due to the organization behind it. Every organization that has succeeded in a big undertaking fashioned its strength out of the healthy, hearty, per­sistent cooperation of every unit in that organization. 
What is democracy? It is a tremend­ous organization. That's just what it is. To successfully accomplish the job now before this democracy, the cooperation of all its units is essential. It needs leaders, not praters or taskmasters or "holier­than-thou" propounders of patriotism, but earnest, practical, forceful, straight-thinking leaders with singleness of pur­pose who inspire confidence. 
To back up these leaders, our dem­(Continued on pase 47) 



The Baccalaureate Sennon 
By Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C. S. C, D. D., 'II , LLD., '40 
Former President of the University Explains "the Mystery of Notre 
Dame" for the Class of 1943—the Lady Atop the Golden Dome; 
Says Graduates Have Responsibility of Sharing Graces of N. D. 
(Because a ivartime train ivas several hours late arriving in South Bend, Bish­op O'Hara did not reach the campus in time to deliver this sermon at the Bac­calaureate Mass of Dec. 20. For the ben­efit, especially, of the December gradu­ates, who were thus deprived of the Bish­op's inspiration, we are happy to publish the sermon here. Inmtmerable other alumni will find in the Military Dele­gate's words much stretigth for these soul-trying days.—Eds.) 
"A woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars."—Apocalypse, 
12:1. Members of the Graduating Class: This is your day. It is a day that ends a chapter, and we call it a Commencement, a beginning, because it begins a chapter. You have looked forward to this day and have worked hard to reach it. Quite prop­erly you rejoice, and yet your joy is tinged with regret for the associations that will now be broken. 
It is properly called a beginning, not an ending, because your gaze is forward. It ever is with youth—and it is with old age as well in the Christian way of life, for the Christian goes forward in faith, urged on by hope, and g^uided by charity. And so it is that in the Christian way of life, every day is a Commencement, and none more so than the glad day on which eternity begins. 
But there is something special about this day of commencement that calls for our sincere . congratulations. Like St. Paul you have striven for a prize and you have attained it. You have fought, not as one beating the air. You have denied yourself—and your parents have denied themselves many things—that you might win. You have won, and you have gained something that no man can take away from you. You have acquired a discipline that will enable you to make a living and be a good neighbor in society; but far more than that, as good Notre Dame men, you have set yourselves in the Christian way of life. 
There is nothing exclusive about this way of life, of course—God forbid. In myriads of ways, God teaches His little children to love Him and to love one an­other for love of Him—and that is the Christian way of life. What is very spe­cial about your privilege is that your inspiration to this life, your source of strength to follow it, your guide to its path, and your reward in its fulfillment has been the love of a woman—^"a woman clothed ^vith the sun, and the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars." 
Bishop O'Hara 

There is something so lovely about the concept of Notre Dame du Lac that one never tires of repeating it. For two and a half centuries this has been hallowed ground. The first name given to it was the sweet name of the Mother of God— St. Mary of the Lakes. Zealous Jesuits, consumed with the love of God, labored here reclaiming for Christ the souls of Indians. And when the geo-politics of the Eighteenth Century drove the mission­aries away, the plaintive prayer of the Pottawatomies brought them back. 
The effigy of Chief Pokagon shares with LaSalle a place on the facade of the Rockne Memorial, because it was he who brought the blackrobes back to Notre Dame, a little more than a century ago. 
Leading a band of his tribesmen front the shores of Lake Michigan to Detroit, he sought out the Vicar General of the. Michigan district. Father Gabriel Rich­ard, and begged for a priest. With tme Christian humility he said: "It is too late to help us, who are set in the ways of vice. But at least send a priest to save our children and grandchildren and teach them to be good." And kneeling, Pokagon and his men recited in^Pottawattomie the prayers their grandparents had taught thenv—the Our Father, the Hail Mary, the Apostles Creed and the Act of Con­trition. 
Who could resist that prayer? The Bishop of Bardstown sent Father Steph­en Badin, proto-priest of the United States, and the Indian mission was re­vived on the shores of St. Mary's Lake. Badin, DeSeilles, Petit, three humble heroes of God's Kingdom, revived the Christian way of life among the Indians. Only a few years after this beg^inning. Father Petit was able to write to his mother in France to describe the daily life of the Indians, and to report that they had morning and night prayer in common, with hymns to the Blessed Vir­gin at the close of day, and that many of the Indians were frequent, even daily communicants. The Mother of God, on the shores of St. Mary's Lake, set the pattern of life for you students. And now, when in the absence of a priest, a Notre Dame man in Greenland or in the Coral Sea, leads his fellow-soldiers in the recitation of the rosary, or in Australia establishes nocturnal adoration with sol­diers and civilians keeping the night watches, he is carrying on the way of life established at Notre Dame before Father Sorin left the shores of France. 
It was surely by an inspiration from the Mother of God that Father Badin purchased the hallowed ground and des­tined it for a University—a University in the forests of Indiana. It was a novel concept. Only the monasteries of Enrope offered a counterpart, for the traditional university was of the city. Ireland, yes, offered a counterpart, for in that blessed Isle, wherever a saint took up his abode, scholars flocked to learn holiness with 
knowledge. But Notre Dame was estab­lished in the Indiana forests nine years before a railroad came, and for those nine years, and for many years there­after, scholars came on horseback, by stagecoach or afoot—and perhaps, in the latter case, driving a flock of sheep to pay tuition. 
Father Sorln had a vision. Like St. John, he "saw a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars." From the backwash of the French Revolution, Father Sorin saw at first hand what harm can come to souls when ideals are cast aside, when God is mocked, when womanhood is cheapened and disgraced, when chastity is held in contempt. And Father Sorin, in the wilderness of Indi­ana, undertook to restore the worship of God, to rejuvenate ideals, to establish the Christian way of life on the only possible basis, the foundation of sacrifice. 
His devotion to the Mother of God showed him the way. With supreme con­fidence, he resolved to set a golden statue of Our Lady on the highest pedestal he could find, as a beacon to light the path and to uplift the heart of every young man whose Guardian Angel would lead him to the portals of Notre Dame. 
And there, my dear young men, you have the answer to the mystery of Notre Dame. It is a "tabernacle not made with hands." The world can never know what it means, because supernatural consider­ations are beyond the comprehension of the world. It was not money that built the University, and it was not men. Notre Dame has had her share of great men—perhaps more than her share, if you view the matter from the worldly point of view—but they are not the an­swer. If you call them great souls instead of great men, perhaps you are nearer the answer. But add them up, and the total is still pitifully small, as an answer to the supernatural influence of Notre Dame, which gathers the affections of good people, non-Catholic and Catholic alike, all over the world. No, the answer is not in money or in men—^it is in the golden statue on the Dome; it is in the golden statue of Our Lady that is en­shrined in the heart of every true Notre Dame man—enshrined in the gold of sacrifice, lighted by the pure flame of manly chastity, bejeweled by acts of brotherly love. 
And this, my dear young men, places on each and every one of you a very heavy responsibility. I have said that your Guardian Ang:els brought you here. But you were free to depart. In fact, you were invited to depart, if you found that you could not accept the responsibility of being Notre Dame men. Be it said to 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
your credit, you accepted the responsibil-­
ity, so now it is your vocation to go out 
into the world and share with others the 
graces you have received at this sanctu­
ary of Our Lady. 
To be sure, Mary has led you to Jesus. It could not be otherwise. As at the foot of the Cross, Our Blessed Lord gave us for our own all that He had left and His most precious possession. His Blessed Mother; so at the foot of the cross of sacrifice, when troubles assail us, she gives us her Son—in the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass, in daily Communion, in adoration, in visits, in Holy Viaticum. Yes, Mary leads us to Jesus; and you who have thus been led, must lead others —from the Grotto to the Tabernacle. 
It may seem strange to you that no mention has been made of the tragic world into which you step today when you leave Notre Dame. If I have not painted the gruesome picture of the chaotic world, it is only because I have confidence in you—^not only because of your stout hearts, not only because from the cradle your parents have taught you the virtue of patriotism, not only because I regard you as strong, manly citizens, but because you have learned and prac­ticed devotion to the Mother of God and you have dwelt in the love of God, and by this token you have in you the power to command any situation that may con­front you. 
Lionel Smith, only a few years ago, went out of these halls a graduate, as you will go out today. While he was here he led the life of a true Notre Dame man— not spectacular, but sound and solid in virtue. I don't suppose he ever missed daily Communion or his daily visit to the Grotto. He made use of every means of grace. Faithful to his work, reasonable in his recreation, loyal, devoted, chari­table, he was a true Notre Dame man. And it was as a true Notre Dame .man that he went forth fearlessly to meet his God. And when his work was done and God wanted him, he was ready to go. After his plane plummeted from the sky, his cousin sent to his family the last testament of this good Notre Dame man. He had written: 
"All of us are in this because there is a job to be done and I shall feel well paid if it's my life for your peace and security —especially you kids 

"Doing this job as well as I know. Mother, will be a tribute to you and the way you have taught us to live If I nev­er make a success of life it will have been no fault of yours. My Darling. Much as I have enjoyed living as you've taught me, spiritually and materially, I shall not mind dying as long as I die in the state of Grace." 
You young men are privileged to beg^in a new century of Notre Dame men. Per­haps among you there is another Sorin, Corby, Zahm, Cavanaugh, O'Donnell, Walsh or Bums, or perhaps another Granger; perhaps there are among you future admirals or generals, governors or statesmen; perhaps there is another Knute Kockne to influence the clean ideals of youth. God knows. Our prayer for you today is that the love of Our Lady may protect you and the love of God guide you, so that by word and ex­ample, in a world bent on self-destruc­tion, you may lead souls to Christ and to the Christian way of life, so that all men may see "a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars." 

DOME PUBLICATION SUSPENDED 
New editors appointed at Notre Dame for posts on student publications this semester include Daniel Do^vney, West Palm Beach, Fla., editor-in-chief of the news weekly. Scholastic, and Edward F. Meagher, Seattle, Wash., editor of Scrip, the literary quarterly. No yearbook edi­tor was appointed, since the Dome has suspended publication for the duration due to the shortage of essential materials and the uncertainty as to the continuing presence on the campus of student edi­tors. 
Assisting Downey on the Scholastic will be Ted S. Weber, Ypsilanti, Mich., managing editor; William Boss, Frank­lin, O., sports editor; Robert Lonergan, Chicago, promotion head; Jack Dennis-ton, Lombard, HI., administration editor; and Dave Condon, Las Vegas, N. M., campus editor. 
Associate editors of Scrip are Kelly Cook, Lexington, Ky., and Robert Cullen, Elkhart, Ind. Cook was the editor-in-chief of the December, 1942, Dome, a con­densed book of 200 pages which was pub­lished to correspond with the gn^adifation, on Dec. 20, of the class of 1943. 
The final Scholastic of each semester will for the duration, according to pres­ent plans, contain the pictures of the graduates of that semester together with a brief summary of the period. 

NEW BOyS* HOME 
The St. John Bosco center, a home for underprivileged boys of high school age, was recently dedicated by the Most Rev. Charles D. White, D.D., Bishop of Spo­kane, Wash. The home is a gift of Mr. and Mrs. Milo Flannery, Spokane, in manory of their parents, to the diocese, and is destined to be the center of a new kind of charitable work there. Brothers of Holy Cross conduct the center. The director is Brother Octavius, C.S.C. 


eiTTX 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the foUov/ing gifts 
to the Centenary Fund: 
Friends of the University* 

I. A. O'Shaughnessy, St. Paul, Minn $100,000. (Establishment of the I. A. O'Shaughnessy Fine 
Arts Foundation. Story on Page 7.) Ralph and Lincoln SoUitt, South Bend.... 11,500. Anonymous 7,500. Anonymous _ 5,000. Edward F. Bessey, Chicago, 111 1,000. 
C. R. Gallagher, Los Angeles, Calif. 1,000. Mrs. Charles V. Hicko.x, New York City.. 1,000. James B. McCahey, Chicago 1,000. Sparrow E. Purdy, Chicago 1,000. Fred B. Snite, Chicago...-1,000. Anonymous 1,000. Anonjmious (Coupon Bond) 1,000. James McGarraghy, Chicago 25 shares of stock 
M. E. Coyle, Detroit 500. Thomas F. Flannery, Chicago 
(Initial payment on pledge of ?1,000) 500. Indiana Amusement Enterprises, Inc., South Bend, per 
John Balaban, Chicago. (Initial payment on pledge 
of ?1,000) 500. William M. Jeffers, Omaha, Nebr., and Washington, D. C. 500. Daniel Scherrer, Sr., Kansas City, Eans 500. Ray P. Tennes, Chicago 500. Louis Veeneman, Louisville, Ky 500. Anonymous 500. 
E. Lowitz, New York City. 400. Dr. and Mrs. Stanley A. Clark, South Bend 200. Paul G. Hoffman, South Bend 200. Knights of Columbus, Notre Dame Council 
(War Savings Bonds) 200. Mr. and Mrs. Daniel J. Schuyler, Chicago 200. Rt. Rev. Msgr. Joseph F. Smith, V.G., Cleveland 200. Dr. Irvin Abell, Louisville, Ky. 100. Fred D. Breit, Evanston, 111 100. Joseph A. Conerty, Crystal Lake, III _... 100. Harry D. Crooks, Chicago ; 100. 
Julian R. Davis, Long Beach, Calif. 100. David Fischgrund, South Bend _ 100. Harry L. Harris, Benton Harbor, Mich 100. Leon J. Harris, St. Joseph, Mich 100. Rev. Terrence T. Kelly, Detroit 100. Edward L. Lalumier, Chicago „ 100. John J. Moran, Chicago 100. Knights of Columbus, Council 553, South Bend 
(War Savings Bond) 100. Otto A. Pfaff, South Bend „ 100. Robert H. Rolfs, West Bend, Wis 100. Thomas Taylor, Scranton, Pa 100. John J. Theisen, St. Joseph, Mich 100. Mr. and Mrs. John Q. Adams for the Mercier Club of 
Northern New Jersey. (War Savings Bond) 50. Nicholas R. Feltes, South Bend 50. John J. Gehring, South Bend _ 50. John L. Hennessy, New York City. 50. • Anonymous _ 50. Peter A. Beczkiewicz, Indianapolis, Ind 25. Herbert L. Cramer, South Bend (War Savings Bond) 25. Mr. and Mrs. P. J. Daly, Dorchester, Mass 25. Matthew S. McGurn, Chicago 25. John P. Roche, Chicago (Initial payment on ?100 pledge) 25. Ralph Pallante, Niles, 0 20. 
To the Niemvland Memorial Fund: 

Anonymous, in memory of Leo Schneider, '28 250. 
To the Rockne Memorial Fimd: 

Walter J. Buettner, Chicago 100. 
* Gifts from giaduates and other former students of the University are published sep­arately in this issue. TTie listing here includes other gifts received since the October, 1942, ALUMNUS was published. 
Centenary Gifts through the Almnni Association from .subscribers to the ALUMNUS, from elected (non-foimer student) members of the Alnmni Asso­ciation and from two Notre Dame Clubs: 
Joseph Berra ? 2. Cecelia B. Bnechner. 10. Dora Carlin '. • 2. Chas. E. Cartier. 25. John Conaty 2. 
L. B. Coppinger. 10. Richard J. Gallan. 2. Pvt. Lawrence J. Gemon 27.10 John Guthrie 10. Thomas H. Hacker. 4. 
L. H. Hamilton (Hamilton Fund) 833.33 Thomas L. Hickey. 500. Edward H. King. 10. Francis W. Lloyd ($300 pledge) 50. 
Joseph McHenry 2. Marie E. McKinney. 5. 
N. D. Club of Minnesota 150. Joseph R. Mnlcrone 2. Anonymous 500. John J. O'Brien 1,C00. Thomas F. Owen 25. William A. Rapp 2. Earl J. Redden '. 50. Rt. Rev. Msgr. Edmtmd J. Reilly 25. John M. Reitz 12.50 Alfred H. Ricker. 5. William G. Roach 125. James L. Rose. 5. Herman A. Schmitt. 25. 
N. D. Club of Scranton, Pa 250. Anonymous 100. Henry C. Staunton 50. Charles D. Terry 102. 
H. O. Vanderhoff.... -... 100. 
• 

The William J. Wall Foundation, es­tablished by a bequest of the late William 
J. Wall, Philadelphia, Pa., according to the following excerpt from his will: "$40,000 thereof unto the University of Notre Damie, Notre Dame, Ind., for the purpose of establishing a scholarship for boys. This fund shall be paid by the Trustee hereunder to the said University without any responsibility on the Trustee to see that it is used for the above pur­pose, and proper receipt for this fund by the University to the Trustee shall ab­solve the Trustee from any responsibility thereunder." (After various deductions, the amount actually received by the Uni­versity is $24,500.) 
• 

The Brother Alexander Memorial Schol­arship Fund, established by the will of the late Joseph C. Smith, '95: "Sixth, All the rest and residue of my projierty of whatever kind or nature, real or person­al, wheresoever situated, I give, devise and bequeath to the University of Notre Dame da Lac, a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the 
laws of the State of Illinois, in memory of my Brother, Charles Smith, known in religion as 'Brother Alexander,' who was one of the early associates and workers with Father Sorin, the founder of the University of Notre Dame, and said residuum shall be known as the 'Brother Alexander Memorial Scholarship Fund,' and shall be held, invested and reinvested by the Board of Lay Trustees of said University, and the net income therefrom shall be annually awarded by the Presi­dent of said University as one or more scholarships to worthy students of the University of Notre Dame who are pre­paring for the priesthood in the Congre­gation of Holy Cross " 
The Hamilton Fund, a gift of $2,500 from L. H. Hamilton, president of the Dumore Company of Bacine, Wis., and his sons, Robert Hamilton, '34, and James Hamilton, '35. The income from this fund to be used to provide an award in cash or suitable equivalent, each acad­emic schoolyear, to the graduate of the College of Commerce of the University of Notre Dame, who has made the most improvement in public speaking from the freshman year through the senior year. A committee of faculty members of the College of Commerce and of the Depart­ment of Speech will select the beneficiary of this award. 
2.600 STUDENTS BEGIN SPRING SEMESTER 
After weeks of uncertainty as to the size of the incoming student body, the spring semester of the University opened on Jan. 22 with the highly gratifying en­rollment of approximately 2,600. This compared favorably, despite the gradua­tion of 390 men on Dec. 20, with the win­ter semester registration of about 3,200. 
Since Dec. 20, the academic University had been on a mid-winter vacation, a "novelty" of the present three-semester system of operation. The current semes­ter will run to May 2, when there will be a convocation for the conferring of degrees, and the summer semester will begin on May 28. 
A considerable part of the present en­rollment resulted from the government's decision that college student members of the Enlisted Reserve Corps (Army) would be called to service only at the conclusion of the first semester ending after Jan. 1. In the case of Notre Dame this means that the ERC men—of whom there are about 450—^will presumably be allowed to remain in school until the con­clusion of the semester on May 2. 
The Army Air Corps has announced that, effective April 1, all of its Reserves (of whom there are now about 150 at Notre Dame) will be called to active ser­vice. It is anticipated, however, that most such Reserves at Notre Dame will be able to remain in school until the end of the semester. The Marine Reserves, subject to active duty after March 10, will like­wise probably be able to finish the session in most cases. The position of the Navy Reserves is still indefinite as this is written. 
All of which adds up, very obviously, to the fact that, while the current semes­ter's enrollment is gratifying, the future, after May 2, is filled with the greatest uncertainties for Notre Dame. The draft­ing of those in the 18-19 age classifica­tions will, of course, cut down notably the normal student body. And just what effect the new government program for utilizing college facilities will have here has not so far been announced. 
New teachers in the present semester are W. R. Utz, formerly of the Univer-
BULLETIN 

The Congregation of Holy Cross will assume the operation of the Colegio San Jorge in Santiago, Chile, it was an­nounced at press time by Rev. Thomas 
A. Steiner, C.S.C., United States Pro­vincial of the Congregation. 
Rev. William C. Havey, C.S.C., '20, vice-president of St. Edward's Univer­sity, Austin, Texas, has been named superior of the delegation which will leave in late February to introduce the Congregation into the educational sys­tem of South America. Other members of the first group will be Rev. Alfred C. Send, C.S.C.,'32, professor of economics at Notre Dame, and Rev. Joseph M. Do­herty, C.S.C., of the University of Port­land, Ore. 
The move has been made. Father Steiner said, after more than a year of careful study and after conferences in this country with South American churchmen and educators. Very Rev. Albert Cousineau, CS.C, superior gen­eral of the Congregation, and Rev. Jolin 
J. Cavanaugh, CS.C, vice-president of the University, spent much of December in South America. (See page 16) 
The Colegio San Jorge is a school of 440 boys. It includes work from the ele­mentary department into the humani­ties, a 12-year program under the sys­tem generally in operation in South America. 
sity of Missouri, as an instructor in mathematics and A. T. Cross, formerly of the University of Cincinnati, an addi­tion in the Department of Biology. Lost to the faculty is John T. Frederick, bril­liant professor of English, who gave up instruction at both Northwestern and Notre Dame to give more time to other duties, and Dominick J. Napolitano, '32, associate professor of physical education, who is now a lieutenant (jg) in the Navy, participating in the Navy physical education program. 
Lost also is the popular and able Jo­seph S. Petritz, '32, sports publicity di­rector for 12 years, who, commissioned as a lieutenant (jg), reported at Prince­ton University on Feb. 11 for training. No successor to Joe has so far been appointed. 
First woman employe of the Univer­sity to join the military service was Anne Regan of Publications Office who was sworn into the WAACs on Feb. 6 and will report soon for training. 
FIVE NEW CS.C. CHAPLAINS 

The number of CS.C. priests of the United States province in military ser­vice rises to 20 with the appointment of five more men to serve as chaplains in the armed forces. The five, all of whom are awaiting their calls to active service, are: Rev. Francis J. Boland, dean of the College of Arts and Letters; Rev. John 
M. Dupuis, instructor in philosophy; Rev. Norman Johnson, assistant profes­sor of English; Rev. Henry A. Heintskill, director of studies in Holy Cross Sem­inary on the campus; and Rev. Gerald Fitzgerald, director of Holy Cross Sem­inary, North Easton, Mass., much better known to readers of Columbia and other publications as "Father Page." 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME 

When they heard the news of the in­vasion of Africa by American troops,-a lot of American soldiers already in Af­rica (at a port below the "bulge" on the west coast) were "doing a snake dance and singing the Notre Dame song," ac­cording to a reporter from the scene quoted in the Nov. 21 issue of The Neiv Yorker magazine. 
And Jim Costin, the popular sports editor of the South Bend Tribune, had recently in his column this item: 
"Danny Richarson, stationed with his outfit in New Caledonia, writes that at the conclusion of recent church service out there, the organist broke into the 'Notre Dame Victory March'—and prac­tically every guy in the congregation knew the words." 
HALT CENTENARY OBSERVANCE 
Notre Dame's observance of its centen­
ary year has been halted midway, to be 
completed after the war. 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president 
of the University, in making the an­
nouncement said: 
"Recognizing the rising tide of physi­cal problems confronting us and those who had planned to share the observance with us, and in keeping with the recent request of the Office of Defense Trans­portation, the University of Notre Dame has postponed until after the war the various meetings, symposia and other activities that were originally a part of our centennial program. 
"The University observed its Diamond Jubilee in the early months of World War I, before the exigencies of that war effort had reached the point of curtail­ment comparable to that of the present. The move now, however, is not without precedent. In 1893, scheduled for the ob­servance of the Golden Jubilee, several deaths, including that of our founder. Rev. Edward Sorln, C.S.C, marked what has become known as the 'year of sor­row.' It was not until 1895 that the 50th anniversary of the founding was formal­ly observed." 
Events to which Father O'Donnell re­ferred and which are included in the decision to postpone are an outstanding week in September of this year which was to have featured a symposium on post-war problems involving the leading scholars and statesmen of the country, coupled with a series of religious cere­monies which would have assembled lead­ers of the American hierarchy and clergy on the campus. 
Also postponed will be the proposed observance on the campus by the nuns of the various religious orders who at­tended the summer schools of the Univer­sity from 1918 until 1941, when the accel­erated academic program forced cancel­lation of the short summer session. 
FIRST MIDSHIPMAN GRADUATION 
(See picture, front cover) 

Notre Dame saw its first non-Notre Dame graduation on Jan. 28 when 1,100 midshipmen, comprising the first class of the Notre Dame Naval Reserve Midship­man School, received their ensigns' com­missions in a short ceremony in the naval Drill Hall on the campus. Chief speaker of the occasion was Rear Admiral John Downes, commandant of the Ninth Naval District. 
The new ensigns left almost immedi­ately after graduation for new posts and were succeeded, on Feb. 1, by a new class of 1,240 trainees, which, like the first class, will remain at Notre Dame for approximately four months. 
SfuUlUflU ^ > > > Alumni 
•DERNARD F. McLAIN, a Notre Dame 
student in 1907-08, is the president of the Dallas, Texas, Chamber of Com­merce for 1943. And the night before his election he was awarded the Col. Henry 
D. Lindsley cup for outstanding public service in Dallas, at a banquet of the John W. Low Post, American Legion, of which he is a past commander. 
BERNARD F . MCLAIN 

Mr. McLain's service to Dallas covers many fields: he is a member of the exec­utive committee, Dallas City-County Civ­ilian Defense Council; major and senior officer of the Texas Defense Guard in his community; a trustee of the Dr. Graham Hall Foundation; a director of the Dallas Community Chest; a director of the Trin­ity Improvement Association; a member of the executive committee and a director of the Dallas Grand Opera Association; chairman of the Dallas County Chapter of the American Red Cross, and vice-pres­ident of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States. 
A veteran of World War I, following his graduation from Yale in Law, Mr. McLain joined the Hart Furniture Com­pany in Dallas in 1919 and has been general manager of that company most of the time since then. He is a director of two Dallas banks and of the Dallas Railway & Terminal Company, as well as a past president of the Texas Retail Furniture Association and a past presi­dent of the National Retail Furniture Association. 
TynjCH OF THE news of Pnerto Rico's 
food shortages, unemployment and political squabbling during the past year has been reaching readers in the United States and the rest of the world throngh a Notre Dame man, Rossdl Jerome Jan­doli, '40, of West Orange, N. J. 
Rnss returned to the States at the be­ginning of the year after 18 months in ~ the tropics but was to go back to Puerto Rico in February. 
He received his A.B. eum. laude in his­tory, but took several courses in the De­partment of Journalism under Dr. John 
RUSSELL J. JANDOU 

M. Cooney. After a year at the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia Uni­versity, he was awarded his M.S. Then he sailed for the Caribbean, spending his first six months there as a reporter and feature writer for the Puerto Rico World Journal in San Juan, the largest English newspaper in the West Indies. A year ago he was made its city editor. 
Shortly thereafter, Russ became for­eign correspondent for International News Service, covering the Virgin Is­lands as well as Puerto Rico. Retaining his editor's post, he accepted an appoint­ment in April to serve as representative of Time Magazine. At the same time, the War Department granted him his cre­dentials as a war correspondent. 
When the University of Puerto Rico instituted courses in journalism last faU, it called on the Notre Dame man to act as instructor. He pioneered in presenting an elementary course in newswriting from a Latin - American . i)erspeetiTe which he hopes to publish soon in Eng­lish and Spanish. 
A Report on South America 
Fathers Cousineau and Cav­anauqh Return From Trip 
Very Kev. Albert Cousineau, C.S.C, and Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, who spent a month in the countries of South America on an educational mission for 

• the Congregation of Holy Cross, returned to this country in early January. Father Cousineau, superior general of the Order, has headquarters in-Washington, D. C. 
In all of the countries they visited— leaving Miami on Dec. 4 and traveling by plane through Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Chile, Argentina, Urguay and Brazil— Father Cavanaugh, vice-president of the University, reported an excellent recep­tion. 
Land of the Future 
The countries of South America, he said, seem definitely to comprise the land of the future. They are conscious of their opportunity and are anxious for their further development. A postwar exodus from European countries is generally expected, and Father Cavanaugh says that this expectation emphasizes the need for improving to the utmost the relations beween North and South America if this country is to avoid serious complications in relations in the next 25 years. 
Friendship, and not just neighborli­ness, he added, must be the keynote of these relations. The United States must send representatives to South America who know the language and culture of the countries there and who respect their dignity and independence. 
In the Argentine, particularly. Father Cavanaugh reported, there is a spirit of independence much like our own, which resents any implication of inferiority or any interference with sovereignty. 

South America is a land of great po­tentiality. Brazil, Father Cavanaugh revealed, supports 40,000,000 people, but is capable according to economists of sup­porting 400,000,000. Our problem, he adds, is to cultivate the countries of Latin America and to aid them in devel­oping their resources, without interfer­ing with their independence or trying to exploit their wealth. European countries, and he found this in the Argentine par­ticularly, have been much more sympa­thetic to the culture of South America. Their representatives have made their homes there, married Latin Americans, and have made our natural trade diffi­culties and diplomatic mistakes the basis 
for securing a strong foothold. In spite of these conditions Father Cavanaugh is convinced that all of the South Amer­ican countries, including Argentina, would like to work out the destiny they anticipate in the next quarter century along hemispheric lines and in keeping with the hopes and principles of the United States. 
Father Cavanaugh returned vrith a strong conviction that American educa­tion must place more emphasis on Span­ish and Portuguese, the languages of Latin America, and upon the history of those countries. We must teach young America that what is different is not necessarily inferior. We should welcome visitors from the countries to the South with the same ability to know their back­ground and converse in their language that characterizes their reception of North Americans. 
Father Cavanaugh and the Superior General found both plane travel and ac­commodations crowded but very satis­factory despite war. Their reception by state officials, our government represen­tatives, educators, and Notre Dame alum­ni, was cordial everywhere. The countries visited, wtihout exception, expressed the hope that the resources of North Ameri­ca, particularly the educational e.xperi­ence and Catholic churchmen mth their common background of culture,- will be available for mutual advantage and gro\vth. 
Meet Local Alumni Even though their trip through South America was comparatively brief and hurried. Fathers Cousineau and Cava­naugh had the pleasure of meeting en route a considerable number of Notre Dame men. Included in this group were: 
J. G. Crosby, a student in 1910, c/o William Crosby and Sons, Representantes de Fabricas, Calle Aparicio No. 130, Casilla 2326, Lima, Peru. Mr. Crosby is an importer and representative of North American businesses. 
John Kinsella, '34, manager of Rem­ington Rand Peruana, Lima, Peru. En­rique Rosselot, '20, a high executive of the Chile Telephone Company, Santiago. 
Frank Havelick, '29, a pilot for the Pan American-Grace Airways. Leaving Lima for Santiago, the plane on which 
BYRNE WINS DISPUTE 
An outstanding Notre Dame man was brought even more prominently into the spotlight with the announcement in De­cember that the War Labor Board had decided, by unanimous vote, not to take jurisdiction in disputes between state or local governments and public employes. 
As applied to Newark, N. J., the board's decision was to the effect that authority to intervene in the dispute be­tween City Commissioner Joseph M. Byrne, '15, and his employes in Local 277, State, County and Municipal Work­ers of America, the CIO. 
A strike of garbage workers in Joe Byrne's department in October brought on the case, which attracted national at­tention, particularly since it was joined in national interest and in the WLB's decision with similar disputes involving transit workers in New York City and utility employes in Omaha. All three cases involved the same issue—the right of state and municipal governments to regulate relationships with their workers without federal government involvement. Commissioner Byrne was the leader in upholding the point of view that the fed­eral government had no jurisdiction to enter into any such dispute. 
the two priests were traveling met the plane of which Frank was pilot. The for­mer dipped its wings in salute to the latter. 
Juan Pedro Scaron, '23, R. Fernandez 270, y Ellauri, Montevideo, Uruguay, chief engineer of the telephone company in Montevideo, as well as head of the St. Vincent de Paul Society of the city and one of the leading figures in Juventus, the chief Catholic youth activity of the city. 
Michael Yriberry, '34, Casilla 33, Are­quipa, Peru. Mike and his wife (the for­mer Catherine Marger of South Bend, sister of Jean Marger of the Alumni Of­fice staff) and their daughter, together vrith Andreas Malatesta, '23, met Father Cavanaugh when the plane stopped in Areqnipa for 20 minutes. 
In Lima, the priests met Gustavo Berckmeyer, ex. '23, and Dr. Corrin Hodgson, ex. '29. In Quito, Ecuador, they saw George Moller Strauss whose son, Juan, is coming to Notre Dame next Sep­tember. The priests also met three of the many notable figures who attended the Inter-American Seminar at Notre Dame last summer: Rt. Rev. Msgr. Oscar Lar­son, D.D., Catholic University of Chile; Dr. Julio Donoso, Quito; and Rev. Leo Harkins, C.SS.R., Buenos Aires. 

BY lACI KNmSTON. '44 

ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL 
Coach George E. Keogan's basketeers got off to a fast start this season. As the mid-season mark approaches, they have won nine out of ten, and won the first six in a row before the victory special stalled down in Louisville at the hands of a rallying University of Kentucky five, 60-55, on Jan. 23. 
In the Kentucky game the lead changed hands five times during the first half, but the Irish climbed on top in the closing minutes of the first half, to hold a half-time edge of 33-27. The Kentuck­ians pulled up slowly and then forged ahead during the second period, on an amazing record of successful long shots, to trip the undefeated Irish. Bob Rens­berger led the scoring with 18 points, while teammate Bobby Faught connected for 16. 
The team climbed back on the track the following Monday against Butler in Indianapolis, whipping the stubborn Bulldogs, 45-34. Bob Bensberger, senior guard, and Francis Curran, junior re­serve forward, sparked the Irish in their final drive, which saw them break away from a 34-34 deadlock. This was Notre Dame's 45th victory against Butler in the 34-year old basketball rivalry between the two schools. 
De Paul University of Chicago, one of the country's top teams, was victim num­ber eight on the Irish win list. Ray Mey­er, '38, ex-pupil of and ex-assistant to Keogan, put a stubborn and formidable squad, that had won 13 out of 14 en­counters, up against his former teacher. Notre Dame had just enough to curb the Demons, 50-47, in a nip-and-tuck affair in the Chicago Stadium. Centers Faught and Brennan played important roles for the Irish in this win. Needless to say, Meyer, a grand guy, is the "boy wonder" of the basketball coaching profession for 1942-43. 
The Irish opened their season by drop­ping Ball State, a southern Indiana Col­lege, in a listless game, 56 to 42. Captam Bntler, aided by center Faught, sent the Irish on to a 14-point margin by pacmg a scoring spurt in the middle of the second half. 
Western Michigan was batted from the undefeated ranks of the Middle West by the Irish, in the latter's second game of the season, 53-35. Curran sank 14 points to pace Notre Dame. 
Before Notre Dame adjourned for the Christmas recess, the team found time to defeat three Big Ten teams. The Irish knocked Northwestern, 49-40; roared on to topple Wisconsin's Badgers, 61 to 59, in a thrilling overtime game; and then stamped out a surging Purdue five, 46-43. 
After the "holidays Keo£:an's quintet surprised a "hot" Northwestern team in the Chicago Stadium, 49-36. Butler led his mates in recording the sixth triumph of the season. Neimera, Bonicelli, Kuka, and Davis showed well during the second half spring. Brennan and Curran paced a 50-45 win over Marquette at Notre Dame. 
TRACK 
Again Notre Dame will have a bal­anced track outfit. Coach Elvin R. "Doc" Handy, starting his first full year as track mentor, has been putting his prom­ising indoor track squad through toug^ practice sessions since the beginning of the present semester. 
Two shining sophomores, Tom Clifford and Jrfm Murphy, will hold down the sprint section on the squad, having shown up very well in the short dashes. In the quarter mile event Notre Dame is well fortified in veterans Dick Tupta, Gene Fehlig, and Austin Jones. Don Lunder­gan and sophomore Bob Pnreell are other 440 material worth noting. 
Two sophomores, Dick Kelly and Don Currie, along with senior Tupta, give the half mile section a very formidable trio. Standouts Oliver Hunter, IIL, newly crowned national cross-country cham­pion; Tony Maloney; and Frank Con­forti, along with newcomers Walter Brehmer, Don Currie, and Al Lesmiz, give the Irish harriers a strong group of mile runners. In the two mile event Hunter and Maloney have things their way for the third straight year. Perhaps the Irish have the finest hurdlers in this threesome: veterans Bill Nicholson, son of the late Irish track coach; BiU Dillon, and sophomore John Smith. 
At the present John Wiethoff is the" only top notch pole vaulter on the squad, and will hold up his end of the outfit as he can consistently do 13' 3". Charles Murphy and Ed Keelan are the aecwn­plished hig^ jumpers. Captain Jim De­laney head the list of four fine : shot putters. And rounding ont the squad are broad jumpers John Murphy and Bill Johnson. 
The track schedule: 

Feb. 6—Uillnee games in N. Y. ­
Navy Pier (doil) here. 

Feb. 13—liiebisan Beby»—East lAosing. 
Feb. 27—Indjans (dual) here. 
March 6—G. C. CL at East Lansingr. 
Harch 13—Armoar Tech Bdays in Chieaso 
March 20—Oiieaso Daily News Bebys—Interna­
tional Amphitheatre; ChieaEo. 

March 27—^Purdoe Bdaja—^Ihere 
K. C. Invitational Meet in Qeveland. 

FENCING 
Graduation and military enlistments have taken a heavy toll on Coach Walter 
M. Langford's foicing squad. Langford, starting his fourth term at the fencing hebn, finds his squad without the services of graduated Jim Madigan, Herb Melton and Angel Gonzalez, all prominent on last year's great team. Lack of experi­enced men is Langford's main problem. He has a lot of untried material, most of it very greoi. 
Before the Christmas recess the fen­cers had tiiree matches. They lost to Ohio State, 14 to 13; bounced back to dump Purdue, 19-8; and then Chicago Univer­sify tacked a 17-10 loss on the Irish for the worst defeat Notre Dame has suf­fered dnrinK. Coach Langford's reign. 
Outstanding among the squad candi­dates, who reiMrted Feb. 1 for the initial practice were: in the foil eveit: Fran­dseo Repilado, Ventura Gonealez, and Charles Reley. Dave Ronay, AI Ortiz, and Gene Slevin have stood but so far in the saber fidd, while promising Jack Watters, Bob Witndd, and Gonzalez are fitting it out to see who is top man in the epee division. 
The schedule is uncertain mainly due to transportation difficulties but Cincin­nati Universify, Michigan Stat^ Wiscon­sin, Purdue, and Marquette are already on the opponoits list and with others likely to follow. 
• FOOTBALL 
Last fall Head Coach Frank Leahy proceeded to school his football'team in the int^rral workings of the "T" Forma­tion and today Leahy can feel well satis­fied that his experimentation with the "T" 
was successful. His original plans called for Owen "Dippy" Evans at left half­back, Creighton Miller at right half, Ger­ry Cowhig in the bucking spot. Bob Dove at left guard, and Jack Zilly, a sopho­more, at left end. A week before the opening game found Evans, Cowhig, Mil­ler, and Zilly out with leg injuries. Dove was hauled back to end and Bob McBride and Captain-elect Pat Filley took care of the left guard duties. 
To add to all this, Leahy suffered a recurrence of an old back injury after the Georgia Tech game and he had to withdraw to Mayo Clinic to imdergo treatment for the condition. 
When you mix these untimely injuries with one of the toughest schedules ever played by Notre Dame and you find it comes out seven wins, two ties, and a pair of losses one can only marvel at the 1942 Fighting Irish. 
The 1942 team boasts the following statistics: They averaged 4.37 yards on every running play as compared with 
3.19for the undefeated 1941 club. Accur­ate'Angelo Bertelli, junior quarterback, completed 72 out of 162 attempted passes for 1,039 yards. His percentage drop from .569, attained in his sophomore year when he tossed 123 times and connected on 70 for 1,027 yards, to .444 for 1942 was more than offset by the deception 

- that aided the Irish in going 2,211 yards on the ground as compared with 1,282 chalked up in 1941. 
Tom Miller had the best ball carrying average in under 20 attempts for the whole Middle West, 7.9 yards in 19 trips, while his brother, Creighton, averaged 
5.9 yards in 55 attempts for one of the finest averages in the coimtry. Sophomore Corwin Clatt, backfield workhorse, car­ried the ball 139 times for a net total of 695 yards or five yards a thrust. Dick Creevy, senior reserve back, was near the top with a 6.6 average in 16 tries. Bob Livingstone, soph back, streaked off 321 yards in 81 attempts for 4.0 yards per try. 
The Irish out-rushed their opponents 
4.37 to 3.21 per try; out-passed them 1,039 to 908 yards; and out-punted them, 
38.6 to 37.8 yards.­
The football situation for this,coming fall is vague at present. It is too early to announce a schedule because the schedule makers are shifting dates to accommodate service teams and nearby opponents. The Administration, however, is on record as saying they are going as far as they can to have as complete and balanced an athletic progfram as war conditions permit. The University in­tends to cooperate with the government at every turn in staging its 1943 athletic program. 

For the sake of our records, let us briefly go over the scoring in the last two games of the 1942 season, which ended shortly after the December ALUM­NUS went to press. 
The Notre Dame team completed its second season under Frank Leahy when it roared back in the second half to tie • the powerful dreadnaught representing Great Lakes Naval Training Station, 13 to 13, in Chicago's Soldiers Field on Dec. 
5. Outclassed in the first half, the Irish came to life with a vengeance at the out­set of the third stanza and punched over two lightning like touchdowns on the first two plays from scrimmage with Corwin Clatt and Creighton Miller racing 82 and 69 yards, respectively, for the scores. 
A week before the Great Lakes strug­gle, the team thumped Southern Califor­nia, 13-0, in a supposedly rough and tough affair before 95,000 in Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. Angelo Bertelli fired two touchdown tosses; the first to C. Mil­ler, which was good for 48 yards; and th& second Livingstone grabbed on the 13 yard marker and raced into the end zone for the score. Notre Dame protected a comfortable 13 point lead in the second half by playing aggressive football. 

RESCUED AFTER 16 DAYS ON RAFT 
Sixteen days in a life raft on the At­lantic ocean with 13 other men was the lot of Lieut, (jg) Donald E. Kralovec, '41, LaGrange, IlL, who was in charge of gunnery and communications personnel on a cargo-passenger liner torpedoed by a submarine on Christmas morning. 
Picked up at length by a Navy surface vessel, Don, on Jan. 30 returned to his 
LIEUT, (JG) DONALD E . KRALOVEC 

home on a 30-day leave. He was greeted in Chicago by his more-than-happy fam­ily and by a battery of newspaper re­porters and photographers who spread his fame widely through the Chicagfo pa­pers, and nationally as well. Don's broth­er, Charles, '43, is training for the Navy at Abbott Hall, Chicago, where Don also trained. 
During the first 10 days on the four rafts, Don and his 13 men—seven of whom were naval men under his com­mand—kept together despite the waves which washed continually over the frail craft. On the 11th day, one raft began to break up, so Don redivided the men on the three, sound rafts. Later one raft with six men disappeared. Never with­out emergency rations and water, the mai were about to ration the latter when they were rescued. 
FOOTBALL BANQUET 
The Notre Dame Club of the St. Jo­seph Valley staged its 23rd annual civic testimonial dinner for the Notre Dame football squad and its coaching staff on Dec. 8. The banquet was held in the Indiana Club in South Bend instead of on the campus because of the need of dining facilities for feeding the students and the midshipmen. 
The program was strictly streamlined. Toastmaster was Dean Clarence E. (Pat) Manion of the Law School. Frank Leahy, athletic director and head football coach announced that left guard Patrick J. Fil­ley of South Bend had been chosen to succeed George E. Murphy, also of South Bend, to the captaincy of the 1943 Fight­ing Irish. The coach gave high praise to his 1942 players and particularly to their display of courage in the Great Lakes game. 
Other speakers were: Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the Uni­versity; Bob Hall, radio and stage com­edian; Lynn O. Waldorf, head football coach of Northwestern University; Ar­thur Valpey, assistant football coach of Michigan, who represented H. O. (Fritz) Crisler, the MJchig^an head coach; James 
M. Costin, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune; retiring Captain George 
E. Murphy; Mayor Jesse I. Pavey of South Bend; and Clarence Harding, pres­ident of the St. Joseph Valley Club, who presided. 
Monograms were also awarded to 34 players and managers. 

The hresident's Statemenl 

To Ahmtii and Friends of Notre DoMe: I^ECAPITULATICN The October issue of the Auniinis 
CloM Gift* to Jcmuarr 15 
Number  Number  Percent  
Year  in Class  Contributors Contributors  Amount  
Before I89I_  41  10  .244  $  33(U)0  
1891_  5  2  .40  7JS0  
92_  9  2  .222  ASM  
93„  13  4  .308  LISOJIO  
94_  10  3  .30  35J0O  
95_  24  2  .083  30M  
96..  14  1  .071  5Jn  
97..  10  2  .20  1.455J00  
13  2  .154  i.noiio  
10  1  .10  25JI0  
1900..  12  3  .25  ISOJM  
1..  17  6  .353  IJKOM  
2..  25  6  .24  3ML0 0  
3_  21  6  .286  lOSJn  
4_  34  13  .382  1.605Jn  
5..  15  4  .266  eioiio  
6..  37  9  .243  15.35000'^  
7..  24  8  .333  535JI0  
8_  33  8  .212  200JIO  
9.- .258  725AI  
1910..  27  .258  IMSM  
U..  67  19  .283  1.509Jn  
12_  44  12  .273  3S30M»^  
13„  62  13  .21  2.81&00  
14..  67  12  .179  388J)0  
15..  67  19  .283  284J0  
16..  71  20  .281  snM  
17..  108  14  .129  2*26J»w ^  
18..  61  18  .295  3.345Jn  
19..  48  9  .187  
1920..  83  25  .301  5670)0  
21..  94  20  .213  
22..  150  38  .253  1.311.74  
23_  182  43  .242  877Jn  
24..  208  39  .187  539.50  
25..  289  54  .183  1JS3SM  
26­ 326  55  .169  IMOM  
27„  318  47  .148  1.160:20  
28..  414  45  .109  1JI54J0  
29..  318  S3  .167  749J)0  
1930..  444  70  .158  782.30  
31_  427  75  .176  1.171J)0  
32..  532  56  .105  609JO  
33_  422  63  .149  393J»  
34..  426  52  .122  1.628.84  
35..  452  60  .111  1.622J3  
36..  443  64  .144  841J50  
37..  472  48  .102  601J0  
38..  565  70  .124  1.673Jn  
39..  606  128  .211  1J89.45  
1940..  69iS  118  .17  ZS30JS0  
J88  107  .155  -5^8J5  
42..  512  90  .176  OlliM  
43..  13  i8jn  
Subfciibeis and Electe( 1946  34 2  4jmS3 325J)0  
Total.  10.086*  1,711  $75,833.64  
AVerage..  .165  S  44.32  

* Tills represents the number of alumni (excluding relisious) who received the ALUH­NUS and were asked to contribute to the Centenary Fund. 
carried, as sopplemait, a financial state­ment of all the operations of the Uni­versity for the year aided May 15,1942. It was prepared according to the best accounting practice by an independest firm of certified pablic aeeonntants. 
In so far as I know, that statonent -was the first of its kind evor pnblislMd by the University. It gave the'&cts, and it has served a good surpose AInmni and friends, once they had those facts, real­ized that Notre Dame's financial podtioit will inevitably be weakaied stiO farther as a result of the impact of the vrar on all private colleges and. oniverslties. Large nmnbers of them responded gen«­onsly, and Notre Dame appreciates the support that they have given her. This issue of the ALUHNUS records what they have done. 
Other benefactions—the generous capi­tal gift of Mr. O'Shaaj^essy, the Wall 
- Foundation, and the residuary bequest of Mr. Joseph C. Smith—are eloquent in themselves. 
But I. am particularly impressed with the evidoices of the conviction of many alumni and non-alumni friends of Notre Dame that the future financial structure of a university must be built an the smaller annual gift of many. 
Tax trends indicate increasing odds against large capital gifts. Income cdl­ings will militate against lai^e annual contributions. 
In most fields of philanthropy, and. education particularly, the hope of the future lies in the annual support of many. The method used need not cause' any sacrifice of effort or achievement. In 
•fact, it widens interest and participation, and is the democratic way. 
Our Centenary Fund seems to be pmv gressing very satisfactorily, and I feel sure that at its close the officers of the Association can report a strong nmneri­cal representation of alumni, among .the donors. 
Notre Dame sincerely appreciates the gifts that have been received up. to the present—the amount and the evidence, of the (desire to hdp her meet the opportun­ities of this critical era. Other schods have begun this financial program mod-: estly — Yale, Harvard, DartDaootli, Princeton, Northwestern — and' have seen it grow in every department over the years. I am confident of the years ahead at Notre Dame. •"-"• 
(Rev.) Hugh Ci^oniieU, OS-Ci.^ Preaident ;-•'!•"; 

Centenary Fund, Alumni Participation 
(To January 15, 1943) 

(N.6. Following are all the recorded contributions to the Centenary Fund of the University of Kotre Dame from alumni. Some have been acknowl­edged by name or amount before. Some of these came direct to the Alumni Association. Others came through the President of the University. Many came through the ofiicc of J. Arthur Haley. Director of Public Relations. The list is a compilation of all of these, to gauge the extent of alumni par­ticipation. Many of the gifts listed do not represent actual Centenary contributions of the individual but are contributions in lieu of dues during this Centenary year and as such entitle the contributor to listing. They may be added to at any time, and the Alumni Board sincerely hopes that the number of alumni contributors will be greatly increased within the next two months, when another supplementary report of contributions will be published.) 
1890 and Before: Simpson, Arthur T. 10. 1908 1913 Boland, William H. 10.00 Smith, Edward O. _ 10. Cull, Frank X. 25. 
Anonymous . l.GOO. Chute. Louis P. 35. Daunt, William A. 10. 
Blake. Richard V. 5. Cooney, James J. — 6. (6) $ 1,060.00 McLain, B. F. 10. Bjiri B^ns, Dr. John T. 
5. Devine, William P. „ 105. 1902 Rath, Rev. J. Augustus . 5. Ui^yn 
iyme, Paul K. 100. Hale, Tllomas 5. Brown, Henry E. 50. Roach, John W. 10. Cartier, Morgan E. 
5. Gaston, Francisco J. . St. George, Ma^dmilian J.
Judie, James A. 100. 10.  125. Granfield, Hon. William J. 25. Long, Ferdinand G. 5. Hilding. Charles V. . 10. Toohey, James A. 10. 
Hanlon, George T., Jr. 400. McCormack, James (Dec'd) 25. Jones, Vitus G. 205. Zink, Francis A. — 5. Kirk, Harry J. 10. 
Perley, Arthur 10.  Clement C. 100. O'Connell, Hon. John F. . 100. 
 P. Mitchell, Stubbs, Charles -J. 30. Murphy, Robert D. -6. (8) S 200.00 O'Hanlon, Joseph R. 30. 
1909 O'Ncil, Thomas F. SOO. (10) 5 330.00 (S) $ 380.00 
Rogers, Edward J. 26. 1891 1903  W. 250. Schonlau, Edward J. 10. 
t'Donahue, Joseph F. 250. 
Edwards, Howard Herman, John Louis Beechinor, Howard F. 10. 
Gushurst, Albert F. _ Vurpillat, Francis J. Coquillard, Alexis, Sr. i.'^naley, John B. 50. (13) $ 2,815.00 10. 
Crumley, Harry V. ^Kaufer, J. William _ 25. I9I4 
(2) Dohan, Joseph P. 6. Oltsch, George J. 25. 
Birder, Cfecil E. 5. 

Kolupa, Ladislaus A. Scanlon, Raymond J. 15. 
1892 30. Hayes, Francis H. 200. Chute, Frederick B. _ 35. McKeever, Francis H. _ 25. I^dundler, John W. _ 100. Hellrung, Herbert C. 6. 
Getchell, Francis H. 10. Hoffman, Leo J. 25. (6) $ 105.00 (8) $ 725.00 
Kennedy, Dr. Thomas R. S. 
1904'' 

(2) 1910 Maher, Gliomas F. „ 13. 
V'Xckermann, Francis X. . 5. 
1893 Mulcahy, Brig. 
Degen Gerard T. S. 
VP^abaugh, Gallitzin A. . __ 300. 
Donahue, Michael A. 25. Degen, Henry P. S. Gen. Francis P. 50. 
Griffin, R t Eev. 
McKee, James A. (Dec'd) . 25. Draper, William A. 10. Redden, William J. 20. 
Msgr, Maurice F. 250. Anonymous , 100. Herr, Stephen H. . 10. Ryan, Arthur W. 10. 
Hammer, Hon, Ernest L. __ 106. Jonesf Thomas J. _ 100. 
O'Brien, George L. 1,000. Moriarty, Rev. Michael L. 5. Speidel, John G. 25. 
Sfhmitt, William O. . 1,100. Walsh, Joseph M. 5. 
^Eanaley, Byron V. 
5 1.150.00 Stephenson, Jos^h M.. 100. Walsh, Thomas J. 25. 
w 
(5-yr. pledge, $500) __ 100. 1894 McCaffery, John C. __ 10. Woodford, Leon E. 10. (12) $ 388.00 
Bolton, Hon. Francis A. 10. Meyers, Joseph J, __ 5. Fitzgerald, Christopher 0. _ 20. Quinlan, John M. ._ 10. (8) » 1,245.00 1915 Kirby, Btaurice D. 5. Record, James R. __ 10. 1911 Andrews, Maxtrice T. 5. 
Stanford, Grattan T. _ 500. Figel, Edward L. 2. vOarroll, William M. 10. 
(3) 35.00 Stephan, Anton C. _ 160. Foley, Daniel R. _ 10. iJ>o\a.n, C.S.C., I89S Zolper, Harry W. _ 50. Faak, Elmo A. 600. Sev. Patrick H. 25. 
Dannemiller, Albert J. _ Glynn, Edward J. 260. V-Eichenlaub, Raymond J. 30. Schnur, Martin J. 25. (13) $ 1,605.00 Hilkert, Albert A. 10. Farrcll, Joseph R. 27. 1905 Hughes, Arthur J, 5, Grady, William A. 6. 
(2) 30.00 Fahy, Bernard S. _ . 5. Kramer, Dr. James G.. 50. {^..Hosinski, Aloysios W. 26. Gruber, Earl F. _ 500. Lawton, Jasper H. 2U. i^Hudson, Galvin G. 15. Jamieson, William D. _ 6. Anonymous . 100. James, Clarence J. 10. 
1896 
Euerze, Robert G. 5.00 Van Rie, Dr. Leo P. __ 100. Quinn, Edmond J. 10. \..Kaczmarek, Regidios M. . 5. Qolsb, Francis E. S. Lawler, James W. 6. 
(1) 5.00 1906 (4) * 610.00 Bceder, Earl B. 25. Madden, H. Daniel 5. 
1897 BosIer,''Wiliam N. _ 26. Renss, Charles J. IS. Mathews, James A. 10. 
Costello, Martin J. 100. j^osgrove, Terence B. Schubert, lAwrenee P. 30. Ptfooney, William J., Jr. . 25. 
Anonymous 1,355. (Pledge of SIO.OOO) _ 5.000. Sherjy, William J. 65. Mengass, Mitdell C. 3. 
Dubbs, James A. - 200. Steers, Fred L. 10. VO'Donnell, Dr. F. O. 66. Gehant, Oliver L. 10. Story, Edward J. 1, Ranstead,- Norman H. _ 2.60 
(2) S 1.455.00 

1898 
Haney, Charles E. 6. Anonymous . 200. Roberts, Daniel 0. 10. 
Bering, Frank'£.. 1,100. Kobak, Edgar _ 100. WIson, John M. 10. ^^^^Sanfard, James E. 2. 
Montavon, William F. -10. Morris, Ernest M. -10,000. 
O'Brien, Rev. William C. 5. (19) $ 1,609.00 (19) $ 284.50 Oelerich, Frank J. 5. 1912 1916 (2) 1,110.00 
1899 McCormack, Michael J. 25. Bannon, John M. _ 25. ^Carroll, Hugh E. __ 10. (9) $15,350.00 
Bruce, Edward M. 10. Corcoran, Dr. Wiliam J. . __ 6. 
(1) 
25.00 1907 Condon, Leo J: 5. ^i)owney, Bussell H. — 200. 1900 Babbitt, Edwin D. 5, Cook, William J. 10. Eckel, Jacob E. __ 10. Goquillard, Joseph A. 26. Bach, James H. 10. Anonymous . . 3.000. FHes, Alfred P. __ 20. Doriey, Anthony P. 6. Corcoran, C.S.C., Finnigan, Dr. Ftaxik B. . B. Fritzsehe, Allen W. _ 6. 

Feisiel, William G. 100. Rev. Wendell P. 25. Howard, Rev. Edward J. 6. vGalvin, Timothy P. _ 10. Cunningham, James V. . 6. McGlynn, Joseph B. . 105. fHomphreys, Raymond H. 6. 

(3)
 $ 130.00 Griffith, John S. 5. Murphy. John P. 26. i^^Uy, Lt. Col. Raymond J. 6. 190L Anonymous 450. Peak, Hon. J. Elmer 100. Kovaes, Joseph J. 5. Best, Louis E. 15. Rosenberger, Anton A. . 10. Phillip, Philip J. . 20. Lennane, Charles R. 10. Gsrlton, Joseph R. 16. Summers, Dr. Edw. J. _ 25. Schumacher, Leo A. - 210. •Lentz, Charles E. . 20. 


Fox, Bohert L. 10. — /ihConrt. Walter P. 10. Oliver, James n 1,000. (8) $ 535.00 (12) I 3,530.00 McLanghlin. Thomas A. 100. 
McCarthy, Dr. Jeremiah A. .. 100. 
•ffiHer,
 Grover F. 5. Muckerraann, Richard C. 5. Prall, Frederick M. 10. Smith. Paul J. 50. Swift, Frank K 2. 

(20) $ 587.00 1917 Carr, Rohert C. 1. 

•'-'tSssidy,
 John E. . 250. xCStall, Stanley B. S. t-Cooncy, Dr. John M. 55. 

•
 Corcoran, Charles G. 5. 


Graham. Raymond J. 5. ^"HilgaitneT, Daniel E., Jr. . 10. ^^iller, R. John 25. i^arker, Howard R. 6. 
Quinlan, Daniel J. 30. -^ackford, Frederick J. — 100. ^-^rbiest, C. Marcellua 110. ^ogel, Iieo J. 25. |VblI, Bernard J. . 2.000. 
(14) S 2,626.00 1918 Andrews, Francis A. 5. 
i^ook, Leo L. 25. 
•'Cullinan, Frank L. „ 6. 
)/8ann, Richard J. — 5. Eiselshach, Cirl F. _ 10. Harhert, George E. ­
10. 
25. 

Hyland, Richard V. 
Erhy. Arthur C. 5. ,' Anonymous i,000. 
,^^eAuIiffe, Robert H. 50. McEndarfer, Eli R. _ 60. Ott, Lawrence 5. Reynolds, Edward J. . 25. Riley, Joseph T. 
25. 
25. 

iJSonchetti, Peter J. — 10. 
vSchock, George A. — 
*Wagner, Louis E. 6. •-WHliams. Rev. Charles J. 100. ,_.ZoIa. Clyde J. 
10. 
(18) $ 3.395.00 

uu 
20. l/Bader, Clarence W. 
100. ^enlon. Pan] — 
10. Finske, Louis J. — 
100. Fritch, Louia C. — 
100. Goheen, Roland W. . 
2. Hnber, Robert R _ 
20. inff, Francis G. — 
k<E3} 
• Lo 1,600. Loekard, Frank R. 
5. Wrape, Valda 
f 1,957.00 192* Bailey, James H. 5. 
V-Balfe, John T. 5. VBeaeom, lliomas EL, Jr. 100. Call, Leonard M. 25. VDoran, H. lEdward 25. 
FaninEton. Franda S. ­(9) 
2. Forster, Dr. Herbert E. 5. Loosen, J. Paul 25. tJCadiKan, Edward P. 5. Anonymous 25. t«4Iedian, Edward J. — 30. teller, Walter B. — 25. vSoore, Elwyn M. 100. ' O'Hua. Joseph P. — 5. O'Snllivan, Clifford _ 25. vtfTbole, Eugene J. — 10. ^Patterson, Dillon J. _ 10. Beid, CUrenee D. — 26. Boaenthal, Joseph D. 2S. iSwift, Kdiard B. — 5. iJZhomton, Dr. Ifanrice J. — 25. C^bbin, Verr Ber. TbOBOM 3. 25. Trant, James L. 25. ><nipUlat, Dr. Francis J. — 6. ,W««. Dr- Matthew W. 6. 
(25) S 567.00 
1921 

Cleary, Gerald J. 5. '"tJrangh, Gerald J. _ 5. --DettlinB, John A. _ 10. 
cOoIlard, Thomas V. 5. vflorrilla. Dr. L. Vincent 5. Grant D. Chester .  -fleimann, Capt Joseph V. (M.D.) Keenan, Donald J. . 5. 
•^Iley, Leo D. 10. ^-^ine, Clarence J. 25. ^«ally, Capt. 
Lenihan, L. (Army) _ 10. *1naag, Joseph M. 10. i<McGann. Albert 50. 
v>Ifeagher, Edmnnd J. _ 100. VMiIIer, Lieut. 
Callix E., U.SJ^Jl. . 6. Rice, Walter A. 5. Sjobcrg, Ralph E. 5. Trippcl, Victor J. 5. Zickgraf, Henry P. 100. Zimmerer, Mark E. 10. 
(20) 

1922 Ashe, Gerald A. 7. Bloemer, Frank B., Jr. _. 5. Castellini, William A. 5. Champion, Pierre 25. CuIIen, John P. 100. Daly, William J. 10. Dooley, James R. 100. Dressel, Fred B. 25. 
10. Foote, Mark A. 
* Dundon. Edward J. 
25. Foren, James S., Jr. 5. Galloway, Robert P. 20. Graf, Leo C. 5. Heneghan, George F, 2.50 Higgins, John T. 10. 'UHuguenard, Aaron H. 75. Jones. R. Gerald 5. Keefe, Capt. Thomas L. (M.D.) 5. Keeney, Arthur C. 5. I^ch, Cletus K 20. Wanion, Clarence E. 25. McCabe, Thomas S. 3. McDermott, Paul I. 25. Murphy, James E. 10. O'Connell, Daniel J. 5. b*Sden, Paul V. 25. Pater, B. Vincent . 10. Pfeiffer, Edward H. 10. Pfohl. Paul J. 
15. Purcell, William F. 5. Reardon, Lieut. Comm. John B. CHS.) 25. Rice, John M. 1. Sternberg, Edwin L. (Estate) 508.24. Stuhldreher, Walter J. 10. Waldron, James R. 5. Weber. A. Harold 100. Young, Daniel H. 45. 
(38) t 1,291.74 

Bamhart, Henry Fahey ..— 50. Booth, Murray J. . 2. Brennan, Martin H. 10. Brown, Vincent J. . 25. **ruggner, Louis V. . 50. Caldwell, Dr. C. J. 5. Cuddihy, J. Gerald 16. Curran. Dr, Kevin JL 26. Daly, Eugene N., Jr. 6. 
•Besch, August G. 5. 
Vffiedrieh, Arthur J. 25. Donaldson, Joseph F. 50 Doran. Dr. Frederick C. 10. Dwyer, Wilfred T. 15. Feldman, Edwin F. 6. Fitzgerald, Hon. W. T. 10. Flannery, Harry W. 5. 
Foley. Daniel F.. Burke, Pvt. Joseph P. _ 25. Haynes, Lieut. Centlivre, Herman G. _ 105. Harold F., U.S.N.B. . 10. 
Corbar. Stephen C 100. 

Kelly, Edward D. 25. Cunningham, Lieut. 
Kiley, Roger J. 100. Raymond C. U.SJi.H.. 105. 
Kreimer. Edward P. _ 6. Cyr, Walter J. 
5. Lauerman, Henry J. , 10. Donahue, Lieut. 
Logan, F. Leslie 10. 
Oiarles W., TT.aNJL . 10. Maino, Carlton B. E. 
Dooley, Paul J. 200. Martin, Charles H. 5. 
Droege, John E. 25. Mattes, Lee H. 25. 
Dunn, Bobert C. 5. McDermitt, Francis F. SO. 
Dopay, Peter P. SO. Medart, J. Reynolds 5. 
Fddman. Morris D. 6. Montague, John M. 10. 
Foos. Albert E. 25. Nash. Richard J. — 5. 
Baling, Clarenee W. 50. Niemiec, John W. 100. 
Hartman. Paul A, loo. Norton, John C. 20. 
HoeSIer. Paul D. 
5. 

Nyikos, Joseph W. 25. 
Hogan, Joseph A. 
5. 

O'Grady, George J. 5. 
Hurley. John P.., Jr. 12S. Pfeiffer. Cornelius J. S. 
Jones, J. Wniard 5. Powers, Jeffrey V. 5. 
Kaiser, Clarence J. 5. Rauh, Walter I. 2. 
Kennedy. Dr. I^ands I<. . G. Richter. Elton K SO. 
Kfsting, Bernard G. 5. Rieder, Leo P. 25. 
Kilkenny, John F. 20. • Rohrbach, John M. 25. 
Loftns, Fionas A. _—.. 5. Torres, Jesse N. 25. 
Lodwig, George E. EC Wack, George J. 28. 
McCarthy. IVank J. 5. HcHnllen. Andrew W. 5. 

(44) t 882.00 
Metzger. Walter J. 5. 1924 
Miller. AJiseIra D. 5. Anderson, Paul J. 16. 
Mood. Charles X. 6. Arnold. Jerome C. 5. 
Moran. John B. 75. Boehm, Alfred M. _ 10. 
Hmphy, Dr. David G. Boyle, Hugh C. 15. 
Murray, T. F^ank 10. Brown, Dr. Harvey F. -25. 
' OTfril. Daniel J. 30. 

Bucll, DeWitt P. 50. Anonymotis 100. 
Cahill, Lieut. Polhaus, Edmnnd A. 5. 
Robert L., U.S.NJL 10. Potts, J. aifford 25. 
Castellini. Albert D. 5. Pbwers. Leo J. 
10. Cava, Capt. Bomweber, Paul 0.-» UO. Jasper F. (M.D.) 1. Shedian, William F. ­
ts. 

Chaussee. E. Louis 6. Skelley. Noifcert 
S. 

Cooke, Thomas E. 8.50 Traynor, John P. 
SO. Cunningham, John S. 1. Voor. Vmiiam E. 
S5. De Long, Robert C. 3. Worth, Bobert M. S. Donovan, Thomas C. 5. Downard, Thomas L. — S. (53) $ 1.6S0.00 Fox, Lieut. 1»K 
F. Jerome. U.S.N.R. 10. Adams, John Q. . _ 90. Glasscott, Robert E. 6. Bailie, Maurice ' _ 10. Gl3mn, George H. 10. Barr, Pvt. William B. _ _ B. Gordon, Thomas E. 3. Brennan, James H. , _ 10. Haley, J. Howard 10. Cantwell, Lt. (}.E.) Leo J. 5. Heringer, Leo C. 10. Collins. Bidard 3., Jr. S. Hurley, James D. 100. Contway. John J. 5. 
James. Pvt. John J. Jr. 6. 
CootAlin, Dr. B. Daniel 5. Mayl, Eugene A. 5. 5. 
Crowe. Edward Y. McGee, Rajrmond L. S. Commins, Bobert B. S. McGoorty, John P.. Jr. . SO. Dooley, William B. 2S. McKeown, Joseph P. 10. Dnnt. Baynond W. 100. Meehan, James R. 25. Bek; Loois F. -5. 
Miller, Ridard C. . 5. /"^arrell, Thcnas A. SO. Molz, Uent. Ferguson, Tbomaa K — S, Charles O., U.SJIJl. . 10. Gelson, 3. Noiliert, Jr. S. 
10. 

Moran, Walter B Gonlet. '^Hneent !•. 10. Murphy, Timothy J., Jr. — 5. Graham. James B. 5. Rauh. Cornelius A. . 20. K-Grlesedieek, Henry L.. Jr. . E. Rink, Robert M. 10. Griffin. Jaho T. S. Rothert, Mathew H. IS. •--Baley, J. Arthur 100. 
10. 

Ryan, Joseph O. . vAdl. Anstin K. ____ _ liL 20. 
Stillman, Harry B. Hurley, Bernard F. _ E. Swift. Lt. James P.. U.S.NJI. Hnrwieb, Irvins A. . 1. 
10. 15. 

Zilky, Richard F. Kieefe. Lawrence T. 10. Kaiy, John J. E. 
(39) * ES9.50 Knaoa. M«l>nli»» F. . 100. 1925 La Can. Fetw M. . 21. Adrian, Ifichael J. n::^ . 5. Lemmer, Victor F. . IC Ahlering, Edward 1A. 25. Lovier, Lester I^ — S. Armstrong, James E. 25. ^IfaswiMi, Jay B. — -ZE. Bell. William B. 5. Kaaoo. Charles E. _ Baker, Edward 3. 5. ^HeCkrtliy, J. H. B. . St. Benitz. William H. 5. MeNahb, Bnr y F. . E. BisdioS, George A. 5. Ilikn*, Franda A. -t. Boettlnger, Leo J. 6. Miller, Hanld A.. 2C. Boland, Maurice J. E. Kaditctall, Al& ^ G . E. Broderiek. William J. i/VD«y, Gaon* P. 10. Brule. Albert MeU OVdO. Daniel J.. E. 
FoEKuini, Tino J. Probst, Lieut. I. Irwin . \,jtoehe. Rev. KeitheD L. . Sdiaeffer. Gilbert F. vehea, Joseph B. Scheer, Arthur F. Sheridan, Thomas W. — ^Slater, Frank X. Swartz, Forest J. Switier, Fred M., Jr. — Touhy, John 0*H. — Walsh, Joseph A. . ^helan, James F. j/Wingerter, Bernard K. Witz, Tlieodore A. Yawman. Victor G.  10. 5. 5. 100. 25. 25. 5. 10. 3. 5. 115  •\ Grams, August M. — <.2iasley, Henry VHurley, William A. . i/Igoe, John D. Kelley, William W. . Ki^^van, Martin J., Jr. — Krembs, David vLavelle, John S. */Massman, Henry J., Jr. . McCabe, Herbert P. vdlclntyre, Leo R. McMahon, John F. Merloni, Peter E. Morrissey, Joseph S. Motter, Lawrence J. . 0*Dou-d, Joseph M. .  50. 5. 5. 5. 5. 5. 5. 10. 25. 5. 25. 25. 10. 5. 5. 10.  Wanek, George C. . Weber, William J. . (53) 1930 Allen, James A. Aman. Andrew A., Jr. — Arthur, Pv t Edward L. . Barry, James E. Bishko, Michael J. Bitter, John A., Jr. Bloom, Richard A. Bondi, August L. . Broeker, Bernard D. » Bromann, William H. . Cassidy, William E.  E. 2. $749.00 5. 5. 5. 5. 2. 25. 10. 5. 10. 5. 5.  Dalton, Lieut. Ralph J. . Dericks, Richard J. Doyle, James T. Doyle, Jphn T. Durbin, Clarence A. Egan, Daniel J. Esposito, Dr. Louis W. _ ' Flannery, Francis E. — Flynn, Lieut. Frank T., Jr. (Navy) . Gajowski, Henry J. Gannon, Dr. Francis J. . Gandie. Gilbert D. Goraczewski, Dr. Thaddeus C. Griffin, James J. Grisanti, Alfred C.  10. 10. 5. 5. 5. 4. 10. 10. 5. 2. 10. 5. 25. 5. 5.  
Quinn, Edward R.  3.50  Cogan, Richard P.  5.  Gross.-'Seymour R..  5.  
(55) S 1.090.00 1927 Berkery, Edwin A. — 125. Berner. Sebastian T. 10. Boland, Joseph H. 25. Brennan, John W. 10. Butler, Paul M. 50. Coleman, James W. 5. Corbett, Lieut. William J , Jr., U.S.N.R. .. 130.20 Dailey, John A. 10. Davis. Charles 50.  •'Rich, Ronald T. Rodin, Dr. Herman H. Searer, R. Floyd Shelanskey, Charles J. . Skelly, John E. Smith. David H. Solman, Fred J., Jr. — Toussaint, Walter J. _. sToepp, Burton E. v\Vhite, James K -AVinberry, John J. W'ingerter, John J.  25. 25. 25. 5. 5. S. 25. 1. 25. 10.  Conlin, John H. Conroy, Bernard W. — Degnan, John F. De Lany, Frederick T. . Dempsey, Edward J. Draves, P%-t. Harry W.. Driscoll. James P., Jr. . Eggeman, Robert F. Elder, John J. . Fennell. Edward G. . Fogel, Warren S. (Army) . Fox, Milton F.  6. 5. 12.50 5. 5. 10. 5. 5. 30. 5. 10. 5.  ^^alpin, Daniel DeL. ^enneberger, Francis J. Hershfield, Myron C. ^'^olland. Francis J. — Hosinski, Edward J. Karl, William O. Kendall, Robert D. Kennedy, Harry E. '^-Knox, Vernon J. wKdpek, Henry S. Krai, Lawrence P. Langenfeld, Edward P. .  25. 5. 5. 5. 5. 10. 10. 50. 10. 10. 10. 10.  
Degnen, William J. . Delia Maria, Joseph P. Diebold, Alfred J., Jr. .  5. 5. 50.  Wood, Bernard P.  (45)  5.  Gallagher, Arthur J. Gallagher. Hugh A. Goggin, Patrick J., Jr.  5. 1. 5.  VXsuerman, Joseph A. Lavenberg, Elton P. -N_Leahy, Francis W.  5. 5. 105.  
Doyle, Albert L. Epstein, Bernard L. ™ Froelich, Lieut, (j.g.) Gervase A. Galone, Andrew N. Green. Thomas F., Jr. . Halpin. John J. Halpin, Richard L. Houghton, Walter O. _ Jones, Herbert E. ~  25. 10. 15. 25. 10. 15.50 15.50 5. 50.  1929 ^Ahern, Francis D. . Baum, Joseph E. _ vBeamer, George N. Vsrennan, Lt. (j.g.) Robert J. Brokhage, Paul H. Burns, Henry L. iCarney, Vincent F. ^fcronin, William F. vCushing, Francis J.  10. 15. 5. 5.  Hasley, Louis Hastings, Patrick J. Hill, Rev. John J. Holmes. Robert A. Janesheski. Cesare S. Kelleghan, Joseph H. Kerver, George C. Kizer, Marshall F. Konop, William H. Langford, Walter M.  25. 5. 5. 25. 1. 5. 5. 25. 5. 25.  "-Leahy. William R. Lencioni, Daniel C. VJfacDonald, Donald F. _ Martin, Valentine H. Mastain, Royal T. McCarthy, William C. \—Mclntyre, John E , McKeever, Charles „.„_ ^Merdzinski, Ensign Harry L. Monahan, Thomas F., Jr.  15. 5. 5. 3. 10. 5. 150. 10. 10. 5.  
Kavanaugh, Capt.  Curry, James M.  5.  Lean, Edward W.  Morphy, William A.  20.  
William D. Kemps, Carl F. Knoblock, Eugene C. .  Deniger. Reynolds A. Digan, James E. Doll, Howard F.  110. 5. 10.  Lillig, Francis N. . McKay, Lieut. Gerald E. . Meagher, John F.  S. 25. 10.  Murphy, Dr. Edward S. wMurray, Lieut, (j.g.) Edward J.  .  5. 25.  
l^nhard, Alden E.  IJorgan, John W.  —  25.  Hedland, Thomas G.  5.  O'Connor, Ward F.  4.  
f^eroux, Clayton C. .  Farrell, Thomas M. .  5.  Messick, Francis H.  10.  O'Shea, Lewis J.  25.  
/Madden, Thomas P. ——  75.  Fortier, Willard C. _­ 25.  Monroe, Richard J.  5.  ueToole, Donald E.  25.  
HcCluskey, Daniel W. —  3.  Friel, Joseph G.  l!i.  Moore, Carl O.  1.  Perry, Gilbert V.  5.  
HcCullough, William H.  Haney, Louis F.  1.  Moran, Joseph A  13.20  "Moulin, Roland J.  5.  
McCurrie, Francis T. — McKiernan, Tliomas A. ..  Harrison, Sgt. John F. Hart, Lieut Thomas V.  5.  Mullen, Dr. George C. Murphy, Thomas G.  5. 5.  '  Reilly, John J. Reising, Warner A.  25. 5.  
McLaughlin,  Edward  J.  5.  Hartnett, Lieut  (j.g.)  O'Connor, Lawrence A.  10.  jStfbnders,  Lieut.  
'  Moran, Francis E.  25.  Joseph P., Jr.  5.  O'Keefe, James G., Jr.  5.  John F., U.S.N.R.  100.  
^/ifyikos, John J.  —  Heuer, Hilmar E.  5.  Parent, Fred R.  1.  Seward, IVancis E. .  5.  
O'Connor, James J.OdilhofTen, J. Frank  —  100.  Hinkel, Capt John V. , Holahan, Paul D.  10. 10.  Pique", C. Frederic Plunkett, Devere T.  5. 25.  Sheehan, John H. , Shean, Hobart P., Jr.  25. 10.  
•/Oualley, J. Kenneth  25.  Johnson, William J. —  5.  Redmond, Edward J.  :...  5.  Sullivan, Lieut. John C. _  60.  
Reichert, Ermin E.  1.  ^Jones, Francis G.  30.  Rochetto, Louis R.  5.  Sullivan, Robert J.  5.  
Ryan, Rev. Harry  15.  Kearns, John T., Jr.  15.  Rohr, Charles E., Jr.  123.10  «-Sutton. Deon B.  5.  
Sheeran, Dr. Daniel R.  ­ 5.  Keating, James E.  37.50  Schettig, Donald A  5.  UTeders, Lieut. Michael V.  10.  
Slattery, John W.  5.  Kraker, Joseph H.  5.  Scholand, Walter J.  5.  Terre, Wilbert L  5.  
\Smithberger, Andrew TTVavis, William L.  .- 25. 15.  Martersteck, Karl EMcColl. E. Donald  ,  Smith, Edgar B. Sprenger, Fred _—_... „  5. 100.  »-*Tolchinsky, David — Tuberty, Harold J.  3. 5.  
Walsh, Charles M.  5.  ijl^vitt ,  Lieut.  Steitz, William N.  S.  Van Rooy, William  5.  
Whelan, Joseph W.  5.  Harley L.. U.S.N.R. .  100.  Stettler, H. Louis, Jr.  _  16.50  Webster, William B  1.  
Young, Eugene J.  25.  Micinski, C. L.  12.50  Sullivan, Donald D.  5.  Wells, caiarles S  5.  
MillifT, Eugene A. .  5.  Sullivan, James W.  5.  Wetii, Joseph L.  3.  
(46)  Molloy, John G.  5.  Totten, Raymond'F.  5.  Whalen, Robert J.  2.  
1»28  Mulhall. Joseph H.  10.  Trombley, Malcolm E.  _  5.  L.Zf!ber, John H.  5.  
Amiot, Neil H.  _  Niezer, Louis F.  25.  Walker, Francis X  10.  
vBoyle, Andrew J, ^Buckley, Louis F.  25. 10.  O'Bryan, Joseph G. Ouelette, Jerome E.  5.  Winkler, George F., Jr. . Winter, Robert P.  S. 5.  1932  (75)  ;  1,171.00  
Canny, James P. . Carr, Louis J. Carrig, Lester J. Collins, Thomas S. _ De Bott, Joseph T. _ Donovan, Francis J. . Fletcher, Bernard D.. Fontana, John G Galardy, Frank H. _ Gorfaer, Richard A. _ Gilbert, Jacob H. _ ^ Glaska, John M..  10. 5. 5. 5. 5. 500. 5. 55. 10. 10. 10. 6.  Perone, Rocco D. Ragen, James Ranch, Basil Reilly, John F. Schell, Oliver F. (Navy) Schuize, Lieut. Robert J. . Smith, John A. Stauder, Lawrence F. Sullivan, John B. Trotter, Robert M. Turner, M. Jay Walsh, Philip A  1. 5. 5. 10. 5. 25. 5. 25. 10. 10.  Yelland, John D. (70) 1931 ^''B^inger, Lawrence H. „ l&irber, Richard J. Biggins, Lieut. James A. (Army—^H.D.) C^ssaday, William J., Jr. . "wChawgo, William B. Cpomes, Edward A. ^rowley, Jerome J., Jr.  10. $ 782.3026. 5. 10. 10. 3.15.105. > Asman, CTapt. '^ Henry Bernard (M.D.) l^lden. Paul B., Jr. (In Service) Bognar, John J. . Botti, Lieut. Andrew G. _ t^wennan. Rev. Vincent P. Brichacek, Francis A. Carey, Joseph H.  CJiadwick, James H. _  tSuIver, Alvin S.  Czapalski, Stanley J.   50. 10. 5. 5. 5. 5. 5. 5. 5. 25.  

Davis, Robert Ii.  5.  Kttkowski, Zigmund H.  —  Wenz, George E. .  Gonau , llioiBas F.  •  I.  - 
Donoghue, Leonard A.  5.  Loughrey, Charles M.  Grifln, TbiaaMM E.  • !. •  
Donohoe, Richard G. (Navy)  15.  Lynch, John H.  (32)  *  1.628.M  Hammer. Bcv. Edrnnnd F.  • S. "  
DriscoU, John E.  10.  Madden. Francis J.  I»33  Hmnrdk. Joseph P.  •  S.  -^  
Duffey, Jack N.  25.  Madill, David S  1.  Allen. John M. .  2.  Hopkins, John W.  
Freidhoff,  William  F.  5.  Martersteck, William  J.  5.  Anonymous  .  27S.  Iidand. George M.  i_  2.  
Galligan. Thomas A.  S.  McGee, Francis S.  5.  Beck. Joseph G.  S.  Jacobs. William L.. Jr.  :  S.  
Gei^r, Sgt. Raymond A. .  5.  McLaughlin, James B.  5.  Bookwalter. James W. .  20.  Kelley. Arthur B.  s.  
Gonciers, Joseph F. Graham, Francis X. Hartman, Robert J.  5. 25. 25.  McNamara, John H. Moore. Emerit E. Myers, Herbert G.  5. 10. 5.  Broeman, Frank L Burkhardt. William G.. Campbell. John T.  10. 20. 5.  KentUkt. Edwin W. Kirby, James H. . Kuehn, Bieliard P.  E. ' 5. 2.  
Hechinger, Ernest G.  S.  Naber. Capt. Raymond J. .  5.  Conlon, Joseph W.  5.  •  Laws. Dr. Kenneth P.  35.  
Hennion, George F.  25.  O'Beirne, J. P.  2.  Cummings. Leo J.  10.  Loritaeli, John A.  S.  
Hodges, Gerald R.  25.  Olczak, Edward A  5.  Gushing, Jerome J.~  5.  Masterson, Joiin A,  1 .  
Kelley, Edward F.. Jr.  2.50  Pons, Lieut. Adolphe J., Jr.  5.  Dubs. 2nd Lieut. Glenn T. .  2.  Matiis. Walter J.  2.  
Kelly. Edward J.  25.  Raddatz, Edward D.  5.  Fergus. Paul A.  5.  McAuliffe. Robert A  1.  
Kelly, Frank J.  (Army)  10.  Prendergast, Henry J.  2.  Fishwick.  Gpl. Edward H.  5.  HcCormae)^ laeot, Donndl J.  25.  
Kilburger, Harry F.  23.  Rau, Eugene G.  10.  Fitzpatrick, John P.  10.  HeNeile. George R  25.  
Magee, Ihomas J.  10.  Rigali, Paul  A.  10.  Gamitz,  Irving  30.  Milton. George E.  10.  
Haholchic, Paul  J.  5.  Sexton, Thomas W.  3.  Gerrits. 2nd Lieut. John  R..  25.  Horan, Ensign John J. .  15.  
McCarthy, Florence J., Jr. .  5.  Shiebler, Andrew J.  5.  Glanzner, John L.  5.  Horiarty. George 3.  —  6.  
Miller, Francis H., Jr.  5.  Sowa, Frank J.  5.  Hamilton, Jas. H. (cf. Gifts)  833.33  Moty, Gilbert R.  15.  
Mumane, D. Frank, Jr.  3.  Staelens, Louis O.  5.  Harris, Falmore B.  5.  Hoynahan. Robert B.  5.  
Murphy, William J.  10.  Stanton, Edward W.  5.  Harter. Vermont G.  1.  Nevils, Charles E.  ;  5.  
Napolitano, Lieut,  (j.g.)  Szekely, Ernest A.  5.  Hosteller, Robert L.  5.  Nigro^ Lieut. Joseph A. .  5.  
Dominick  F.  10.  Stitt, Lawrence J.  5.  Judd. Herman  R.  1 .  CMalley, Pvt. John G.  „  25.  
Neville, Maurice N.  5.  Troy. David K  5.  Kane. Maurice G.  1.  Palmer, Charles O.  5.  
O'Connor, James P.  5.  Tutela, Dr. Arthur C.  _  5.  Keating. Raymond B.  Quinn, lient.  
O'Hara,O'Keefe,  Bartholomew  Lieut. (j.g.)  W .  10.  Weinstein, Benjamin H. . Witucki, Bernard F.  5. 2.  Klosinski. Theodore A, Koppelberger. Francis L.  5. S.  James J. (MJ).) Rocco, Julius P.  5. 1.  
John B  5.  Kuharich. Pvt. Anthony S. —  5.  Rnbly. Paul E.  5.  
j^tritz , Lt. (j.g.) Joseph S. . Pfeiifer, Raymond L. Prodehl, Clifford E. Quirk, Fatrick J Rossiter, Claude L. Ruffing, Cornelius J. Slader, William T. Streb, 2nd Lieut. Robert P. Strebinger, Joseph B. Sullivan, Justin D. Theisen, Lieut. Gerald C. .-Troost, Clarence W. Trotter, James M. Weiss. Pvt. Charles J. Jr. .. Whelan, Lieut. Vincent M. , Wilson, Jerome J. (35) $1933 Artz, Alfred J. Bolger, Lt. (i.g.) George E. . Breen, John F. Brennan, Roger P. Brucker, Robert A. Buckley, Walter W. Cannon, Thomas A. Carton, Richard G. Cashman, Benjamin J. (Deceased) — Gavanaugh. Eugene L. Chreist, Louis R., Jr. Cook, Leo M.. Coughlan, Thomas E. . Cousino, Bernard L. _ Crowley, Patrick J. — Dames, Roland N. Darraody, Philip A. « Ebert, Neill W. Eckert, Edward J. Faherty, Philip J., Jr. _ Htzpatrick. John D. Fitzsimmons, Robert J. . Foley, Milton J. Frank, Carlos H.  40. 5. 5. 1. 10. 50. 5. 3. 5. 10. 10. 2 10. 3. 5. 5.  609.50 5. 6. 5. 5. 5. 3. 10. 6. 1. 5. 5. 10. 5. 5. 20. 5. 5. 5. 5. 3. 30. 25. 20. 5.  (63) $1934 *^raham , Eli M. t.41ish. Eugene S. ^yBnisE^r, Leo J. t^ahill. Lieut, (j.g.) Robert M. Clark. Pvt. Robert L. Clauder. John E. Crego. Francis T. Desnoyers, Harold G. Devine, John A. (Army) Doyle, Cpl. William E. Dulin, Edwin H. Dupray, Lieut. Walter J. (Navy) Else, Ralph F. Escher, William F. Fesler, James C. _ Fromm. William H.. Jr. . Gartland, Francis B. Gillespie, Howard J. Glennon, Joseph R., Jr. Hallauer. Edward W. ^Hamilton. Robt. L. (cf. Gifts) Heckelmann. Charles N. Hiegel. Alfred J. Hockberger. William G. Honerkamp. Francis W. . Hughes. Robert W. Anonymous Kenney, William J. — King, Grenville N. Krause, Edward W. — McAloon, Vincent G. — McKiernan, John S. — McShane, John A. Moran, Edward M. Murphy. Hugh J. O'Neil, Lieut. John W. . Piontek, Raymond F — Podraza, Julian J. Quinn, Charles F. Reeves, James P. Robison. Francis W. —   393.00 73. 13. 2.' 10. 5. 5. 5. 5. 10. 5. 5. 5. 5. 938.34 3. 5. 5. 3. 5. 50. 10. 5. 15. 5. 250. 10. 5. 1. 1. 3. 3. 23. 2. 5.  Kunz. John J. Lawrence. John W. McGrath. John J. McNicholas. Gpl. Lavin J. Montgomery. Charles R. _ Morrison. Arnold B. Moss. Lieut. William B. Neeson. Ensign John H., Jr. O'Brien. Eugene L. O'Brien. Francis F. : O'Brien, Ensign George F. — O'Hara, Edward L. O'Reilly, Eugene J. O'Shea, Russell J. Pende'rgast. Robert P. Packard, Clarence J. Ratterman. Carl B. (Navy) Ravarino. Albert J. Rogers, Robert F. Ryan. William F. Shields, Robert J. Simon, Kurt G. Slattery, John A. Smith, Edward J. Tourek. Claude W. Toussaint. Joseph A. Waite. Harry T.. Jr. Wiggins. Cyril A. Williamson. Charles T. . Winkel. Matthew J. Youngerman. Daniel J. — (60) t1936 Adamson, Thomas £. J— Baum. Arthur A. Belden, William H. Buckley, William A. Burke, James B. Carideo, Frederick J. ». Collins. Richard J., Jr. Coyne, John V. Chimmings, Paul W. — Gushing, Leo J. Darcy, William J Del GaizOk Carmine L. .  5. 5. 25. 3. 5. 5. 25. 10. 25. 9. 5. 2 10. 5. 10. 5. 5. 10. 5. 25. 5. 3. IS. 5. 10. 10. 25. 5. 10. S. 23.  1.622.33 1. IS. 15. 3. 5. 6. 10. 10. 10. S. S. 5.  Sdiranhl. WlUIam J. Skdley, John J. Smith, Edward C , Jr. Snooks. Richard W. Stdllvan, Lieut. Joseph D. Tofnri. Pasdial A. Vamean, Arthur LeR. -Vesey, George W., Jr. _ Walker, PVt John W. _ Walsh. William A.. Jr. . Whitaker. John F. —— Wolf, George M. Yazaki, Paul H. '. (64) tIM7 Alaman, Louis G. Brown, Clifford F. Burch, Raymond M. Cardinal, Ralph M., Jr.. Gattie. Eugene L -Claeys, Jerome O., Jr. _ Ctonin, Arthur D.. Jr. _ Dahill. Edward J. Danhom, Lawrence E. (Navy) Dmeeker, Harold J. — '. Dunn, James H. Falsioni, Daniel P. Fanbauiji, John G. . Fladier. Edward W. (Army) Goldsmith, Edmund F. Hack, James G. HoOenbaeh, Louis J., Jr. Hushes, Thomas J. Hnisldng, Edward P. : Jndae, Adolph J. Johnston. lient. Benjamin D. Kroeger. Marvin A. Ledmer. John J. Levicki. John J. : ^ Linn. Barry R. Lynch. William J. MeCkrthy, Thomas L. McGuire. Fkands T. —: :_ Mcintosh. Joseph K. ; :—  5. 5. 5. 5. S. 5. S. 10. 5. t. 3C2.5* S. 2.  841.50 . L: 25. 5. •5. 10. 25. 100. 2. 5. 7. 5. 5. 25. 5. Z 3. 25. 5. 5. 15. ZS9 5. 25. 5. 1. 5. 10. 25. 5.  
Gargaro, Ernest J.  (Army) .  5.  Roche. John J.  5.  De Wald, Paul C  6.  Hurray. Capt. Clay HeN.  —  25.  
Gartland, C.S.C,  Rogers. Ralph E.  5.  Donnelly, Bernard P.  5.  Niekol. Sgt. Robert W.  S.  
Rev. Francis E.  5.  Smith. James L. Jr.  —  5.  Donovan, Lieut. Alan E. .  5.  Nims. John F.  i  
Gerend, James J.  4.  Sporl, Harold D.  10.  Dorris, Thomas B. ,  5.  Nyikoa. Joseph K.  
Hess. Loren (Army)  1.  Strong. (3ene E. .  5.  Esch, Edward R.  ^—  5.  Pierce.  Harrison  J. (Army)  • 2.  
Higgins, Pvt. Willard  5.  Sullivan. John H. .  5.  Fitzmauri.ce, Joseph !«.  —  5.  Quinn. Jasq>h P.. Jr. (Navy)  2.  
Hoyt, John A., Jr.  5.  Uaiphrey. Tliomas J.  5.  Gabriel, Lieut.  Riler. Lieut. J. Aldde  ^^ —  M.  
Jenny, Frank J. Kieley, 2nd Lieut. John B.Killeen, Edward B.  _  5. 2. 10.  ~Veeneman. William H.. Jr. . Venables. John LeR. Wnldron, lliomas H.  10. 5. 10.  Frederick R. (MJ>.) _ Gomes, Rev. Anthony H. . Gorman. John E.  50. 5. 5.  BoKsenstein. CpL Chailea K ' Sdiafer. Albert M. (Army) Shapero. Joseph B.  5. 50. 5.  

Sharp, Ensisn William J. Jr.  1939  Quinn, James  L., Jr.  10.  Hushek, Sg t  Daniel  J.  5.  
Shidds,  Edward M.  Adrian,  Joseph  L.  Raaf, James J. »  5.  Hyde, Pv t  David F.  _  5.  
Siegfried. Robert McB.  Blessing, Michael L.  (Army)  Rasor,  Lieut  Charles B.  _  15.  Imholz, Berchman J,  1.  
Stroker, Ensign Cyril F.  Brown, Ensign Albert L.  Rcardon. Thomas HcG. .  5.  Johnston, B. C, Jr. (In Service)  2.50  
Struck, William L.  Brown, Sgt. Richard J.  10.  Respondek, A. H. (Anny)­ 5.  Julian, John D,  6.  
Sollivan, Richard  P.  * Burkholder, Richard M.  4.  Rice, Joseph G.  ^—  10.  Kaczmarek, Richard C.  5.  
Vitter, Albert L., Jr.  (iirroll,  William  E. (Army)  35.  Rizzi, Aurelius J.  15.  Kamm, Wilber A.  10.  
Wdch, Joseph J.  fC&iS,  2nd Lieut. John B. _  100.  Rizzt, Harold C.  3.  Karr, Lieut George R. .  10.  
Zeiiler, Gerard J.  aarke, Lieut  Edward T.  4.75  Sabo, Carl L.  !  6.50  Keen, Edward C.  5.  
Converse, Lieut. Robert F.  5.  Sadowski, Edward M. —  5.  Kelsel, Charles M  10.  
(48)  Cuthbertson, Robert H.  10.  Sandrock. Ensign Peter F. —  10.  Kerwin, William F. Jr. .  5.  
Deale, Valentine B.  1.  Schirf, Lieut Robert F.  3.  Knaus, Joseph A.  10.  
DeCoursey, Vincent W.  6.80  Schleck, Lieut. Raymond M.  25.  Koss, Aloysius J.  20.  
US8  Dercngoski, Robert A, (Army)  5.  Schmitz, Albert J.  4.  Lavelle, Anthony E.  25.  
Armbrustcr, Hugh  J.  Digby,  Frederick J.  1.  >^chorsch,  Robert  S. (Army)  10.  Lawrence, Brother  (Bever)  1.  
Beer, Sg t  John J.  _  Doyle, Lieut  Lawrence A.  10.  Schroeder,  Robert  C.(Army)  5.  Layton, Dewey  C ,  Jr.  «.  10.  
Borowskj, Charles C. .  Dray, Ensign Joseph  F., Jr.  10.  Scbultze, John O.  10.  Lenihan,  Paul  G. (Marines)  10.­ 
Bourke, John  T.  Dreiling Cpl. Virgil T.  5.  Sheppard, R. A., Jr., (Army)  1.  Le Page, Sgt. J. Roch, Jr.  _.  1.  
Brown, Charles M.  Driggs, Harry S.  Simon, Laeut Julius F. .  5.  Letcher, John C,  2.  
Callahan, Lieut. Joseph A. .  10.  TJuffy, John R.  Stack. Edward F.  '.  5.  Loughery, Robert J.  SO.  
Carson, Edward H.  5.  Duggan, William R.  Streator. Charies H.  2.50  Lynch, James H. (Army)  1.  
Connor, Sgt. David J.  10.  Dunn, Ensign Joseph M.  Stulb, Capt Timothy J. .  10.  Lyng, Pv t  Richard ZZ  5.  
Cosgrove, Francis P.  Feency, Sg t  Bernard J.  Sullivan. Joseph P., Jr. .  3.  Maconi, Louis P.  3.  
Delaney, Francis J., Jr.  Fitzpatrick, Francis E.  Tansey, James C  5.  Marker, Thomas P.  (Navy)  
Dineen, Joseph D. (Army)  Flanigan, Chas. J. (In Ser\'ice)  Theisen, Charles J.  3.  Matson, William J.  
Doozan, Carl W.  Frank, Maurice N. _.  Thomas. Robert J.  10.  McCarthy, Thomas P.  10.  
Dreiling, J. Alvin  Frericks, Theodore P.  Toner, Felix J.  15.  McClarren, James P.  5.  
Drolla, Francis J.  Fricke, Carl H.  10.  Tonsmeire, Julian G. —  3.  McGuiic. • Joseph J,  5.  
Duggan, Eugene K.  Fritz, Philip G.  10.  Tormey, James J.  15.  tfclnemey,  William F. (Army)  E.  
Ervin, Robert F.  Gallagher, John C. „_  Trentacoste. Salvatore P.  1.  McKeon, Pv t Joseph M.  5.  
Fitzgerald, Thomas M.  Garab, Richard J.  Tully, Paul C.  1.50  Mercado, Victor R.  2.  
Fitzpatrick, Ensign George F.  Gartland, Francis X., Jr.  Voelker, Robert F.  Meyers, William T.  '.  1.  
Flynn, Thomas F.  (5eerts, Marcellus J. ..  Volberding, Alfred C.  5.  Michaels, Pf c Carroll A.  1.  
Fox, Louis A.  Gerend, Walter J.  5.  Wachter, Ralph F.  2.  Miholich, Ferdinand EL, Jr  100.  
Garvey, Thomas M.  Geyer, (jeorge E.  5.  Wagner, Fred, J.  5.  Miholich, John C  10.  
Gerl, Pv t Richard M. _  5.  Green, (3adet James J.  1.  Walsh, James C.  M  2.  Minczeski, Edward V.  5.  
Gibbon, William J.  30.  Griffin, Jn. J., Jr. (In Service)  Weber, John H.  10. ^M^ooney.  Alan  B. (Marines) .  25.  
Greene, Sgt. Thomas E. .  1.  Gutowski, John Z.  Wessels, Sg t John E  5.  (^nrrison. Ensign Paiil M.  W.  
Hacker, Thianas E.  4.  Hanlon, Kyron W. .,  Wheeler, John B., Jr.  3.  'i,^ulqueen, Capt Joseph H.  ^  10.  
Hackman, Capt. Robert H..  10.  Hiegel, Joseph J.  White, William P., Jr.  20.  Nolan, Ensign Robert J.  5.  
Hager,  Edward  C.  '.  Higby,  Pfc.  Kenneth  E., Jr.  10.  Wilson, Lieut Andrew F.  25.  k..Norbert C.FJC, Bro. (Brennan)  1.  
iXHaggar,  Edmund  R.  Hilbert Joseph M.  10.  Zachek,  Ensign  Thaddens  P.  25.  Peterson, Lert^ E.  5.  
Harris, Lieut. Walter J.  Hoag, Robert J., Jr.  3.  Zerbe, Earl M.  3.  Philion, Richard J.  10.  
Hayes, John J. (In Service)  Honcrkamp, Frederick W.  Pieters, Charles E.  5.  
Hickey, Ensign Donald F.  Howard, William P.  (128)  $ 1,089.45  Plummer, Sgt James W.  1.  
HoIU, Lieut Robert F.  3.  Huether, Robert W.  Ponlin, John G.  5.  
Kerwin, Ensign George D. — Kesicke, Francis E.  10. 10.  Hughes, Joseph M.Hunt Russell L.  '.  Allega.  Francis  R.  Reilly, Ensign Louis J. . Rosbach, Philip F.  6. 20.  
Khusman, Theodore J. (Army) Lacey, Lieut. John W. I^rwood, Franklin E. Mahoney, Pvt. John P. Moulder, John S. Hulhem, Ensign Francis A.  20. 10. 35. 5. 12. 10.  Hynes, John C. Joxtheimer, John C. Jepkins, Korman B. [/Kaczmarek, Jerome J. Kalman, Thomas J.Kane, Raymond A.  ;  25. 10. 10. 10.  Allen, Raymond R. Armstrong, Joseph J. Aubrey, Edward C. Becker, George W. Blong, Victor J, Bolchoz, William M.  1. 25. 5. 2. 5. 1.  Ryan, Vincent J. 3ackley, Donald J. (In Service) Saegert Gerald W. (In Service) Sandmaier, P. J. Jr. (Army) Sanford, Sg t Robert G. Schalliol, Cari M.  5. 3. S. 5. 10. 2.50  
Myers, James W.  15.  Kavtsak, Robert J.  13.40  Borda, Ensign Henry P.  —  15.  Schalliol, Earl D.  2.60  
Nowak, Paul T. 10. O'lAughlin, Francis J. 3. O'Meara, Al t M., Jr., USNR 30. Pick, Robert B Plouff, Ensign John F. 5. Ppore, John N. 6. ViXtuinlan, Thomas F. (Navy) 5. Race, Adrian J. 5. ReynMs, Clark L. 5. Scannell, Richard J. 25. Schmitz, John G. 5. Scott, Capt John A. 1. Shannon, Michad F. 10. Shields, Pvt. Phillip J. 3. Skoglund, Leonard H. . 108. Smith, Donald H. 10. Smith, Ensign Donald L. . 2.50 Sokerka, Pvt. Andrew R. . 10. Sullivan, Lieut. George R. Sullivan, Pvt. James F. — Sweeney, Oiaxles A. Trelzer, Theodore W. 10. Vance, Casimer E. 5. Vaslett, Eugene F. (Army) 1. Ward, Ensign John S. 2. Waters, John R. Jr. 6. Wd»ter Caiarles R. 5. Wimpe, Henry E. 25. Zeibst, John R. 5. (70) $ 1,673.00  Kennedy, Capt Robert D. __ Kling, Ernest F. Klister, Irving F. Lynch, John E. (In Service) Maher, Thomas A. ^raloney, Lieut Philip J. Martin, Roland A. McAuIiffe, Lieut John E. — McDermott IJeut Edward G. McDonald. Joseph L., Jr. McFarland, Charles B. McGinnis, Ueu t Martin S McCfoldrick, James G. J. Mc(3ovem, John J., Jr. McGuinness, John L. (Army) McGuire, Michael J. McNelis, James T. . Merrill, Edward H. Jr.. Meskill, Ensign David T. Metzger, Harry Miller, Sg t John J. Moorman, Lieut Joseph B Mortimer, John S. __ Murray, William S. O'Laughlin, Pv t Francis J. O'Melia, Capt Richard J. O'Neil, George M., Jr. Piedmont William L. (Navy) Ortale, Robert M. Piercecchi, Sg t Robert J. — Plain. George F., Jr.  10. 5. 5. 2. 5. 10. 60. 3. 2, 5. 21. 5. 5. 5. 1. 2. 10. 5. 5. 5. 2. 25. 2. 5. 10. 5. 5. 5. 5.  Borgman, Paul A. (Navy).. 5. Bowler, Harold H 5. Bright Francis E. .... S. Brodberger, Sg t John B. 4. Cintron, Jimn E. ­1. Qeary, William F. 50. Connolly, Robert J. 8. Coquillard, Alexis A,, Jr. — 5. Ddl, Cpl. Charles E. 2. Devine, Eugene J., Jr. 5. Donoghue. L t J. V.. U.SJLC. S. Dowd, Henry R. (Army) 5. DriscoU, Francis S. ™ 20. Else, John G. 5. Ephgrave, Charles W. . 2. Fay, Cpl. William C 2. Feltes, John B. 10. Fergus, Francis K _ i 5. Finneran, John C. 10. Flynn, Ensign Gerald J. 25. Gentle, Anthony F. 1. Grisanti, Robert C. ; 2. Gschwend, Paul J., Jr. 5. Guindon, 2nd L t Francis X. 5. Anonymous 1,250. Hall, Burt J. _ 5. Hal t Edward J. (. 5. Hart Pvt. Joseph F. ^ 1. Horn, Pf c George T. __ 2. Hosinski, Donald E. - 5. Huff. Lieut Edward G. 12.  Schmid. Sg t Thomas B. 5. Schmit Robert F. (Army) 3. Shedan, Clarence T. (Army). 1. Slabaogh, Robert A. 3. Smith, Terrence J. 10. Sobczak, Joseph A. (Navy) 5. Spohr, Joseph C 3. Sptafke, David W. 3. Stegmaler, Otto C , Jr. 2. Sukiennik, Pfc. Matthew S. 3. Sullivan, Daniel J. (Army) 2. Stdlivan, Floyd J. (Army) 2. Swanser, Bernard A. .: 10. Thomas, William S. 5. Tracey, Edward J. J. 5. Urhansld, Louis A. (Lieut) 125. Varga. James A. (USNR) — 5. Wallace, George S. 3. Walsh, Myles J. (In Service) 5. Whitford, Joseph C. 10. WiUe, Robert L. 5. Wolf, John M. 25. Worley, Ensign Lloyd F. » 5. Wnrtzebach, Ensign Edw. P. 53. (118) $ 2,320.50 IMl Alft, George W. 25. Apone, Louis W. (Army) 10. Bagan, Earl D. (Navy) 2.60 ^/^  

1 W ^ •**^ ^Jf 
 Al u m n u s 

Bart], Robert L. Belden, Ridmrd F. Benedosso, Pvt. Anthony A.— Bernard, Ensign Anthony M. Brennan, W. J., Jr. (In Service) Brodbeclc W. F. (In Service) Broussard, Joseph E, Buber, Lather W. Buckler, Pvt. J. L. (Army) Buckley, 2nd Lt. Clifford G. Bueneer, William E. Cassidy, T. Donald Cattle, Joseph F. Chamberlain, Eugene M. CSiaput. Elmer P. Collins, Kenneth J. Connor, Thomas H. Daly, Sgt. William T. Deahl, Warren A. De Lay, Lt. EUB. E . (Army) Delia, Thomas A. Dd Zoppo, Albert J. Dillon. Set. Charles E. Doll, Jesse L. (Army) Doran, Robert J. . Eby, Lawrence T. Fairley, Pvt. George E. Fcrraro, Stephen P. Froelich, Jerrane J. Futter, Clarence H. Gallagher, (3iarles R., Jr. — Gartland, C!pl. James M. Graham, Harold E. Greene, Charles E. Jr. Hannon. Sgt John W. Hawes, William R. (Navy)-. Henke, Lawrence W., Jr. — Hennessy, Lieut. John M. Hickey, Gerald A. 
Hopkins, Francis J. (Navy) 
Humby, Lieut. Arthur J. — 
Hurst. Donald R. 
Riff, Robert E. 
Kamm, Ehner J. 
Keleher, Cadet Edwin W. — 
Kelly, Ensign Raymond J. Jr. ^^onymous — — 5, 
Kristoff, 2nd L t Walter W. _ 
Lang, James O. — 
Lauerman, F. James 
(In Service) . Lentz, Pvt. Frederick E. HacKenzie, Pvt Louis A. Hago, Ensign Bernard A. — Mahoney, Edward A, Marietta, Donald J-™ Hartin, Emery W. Haury, George J. 
10. 25. 10. 22. 
25. 5. 23. 5. 5. 10. 10. 3. 
3. 10. 10. 
2, 
4.30 10. 20. 
2. 5. 1. 5. 25. 25. 5. 
5. 10. 10. 5. 
10. 2. 8.89 000.*^ 10. 10. 
5. 
2. 10. 25. 30. 
2. 5. 2. 
LAETARE MEDALIST DIES 

Miss Josephine Brownson, president of the Catholic Instruction League of De­troit, Mich., and recipient in 1939 of the Laetare Medal for outstanding Catholic leadership, died in a Detroit hospital on Nov. 10 following a year's illness. 
The awarding of the medal to Miss Brownson marked the first time since the inauguration of the medal award in 1883 that a descendant of a former medalist received the honor, the highest Catholic laymen award in the United States. Miss Brownson's father, Henry F. Brownson, was the medalist for the year 1892. Her grandfather, Orestes A. Brownson, is>{ known as the "father of American phi^' losophy," was on his way to Notre Dame in April, 1876, to join the University 
McDonnell, John N. 
(In Service) . 

McGeever, Ensign Joseph B. 
McHugh, Edward O. (Army) 
McLaughlin, L t Lawrence G. 
McManus, Thomas P. 
Meltzer, Pvt. George F. 
Monaghan, John H. 
Moran, Cpl. Robert E. 
Murphy, Thomas M. 
Murray, James H., Jr. 
O'Brien, Pvt- James J. 
O'Brien, Ensign John D. 
O'Dea, Ensign John F. 
Olbrys, Joseph B. 
(In Service) Patterson, Sgt John W. Perrine, Alfred J., Jr. (Navy) Fetroshius, Lawrence J. Powers, Lieut. David I. . Reidy, David L. (Army) Reilly, Ensign Thomas E. Reiser, Louis A. . Rejent Ronald P. (Army) „ Russo, John F., U.S.N.R. Ryan, John M. Sass, Robert E. Schmidle, Claude J. Schreiber, Ensign (jeorge A. Schuiz, Robert M. Shevland, Sg t Edward V. _ Shouvlin, Lieut Roger J. . Somers, Lieut Joseph P. Stack, Daniel J., Jr. Sugnet, Lieut Robert F. Sullivan, Edward J., Jr. Sweeney, Robert M. Syring, William J. Tlusty, Cyril J Underriner, Bernard W. Vandervoort Pvt. Albert A. .. Van Huffel, Albert F. Van Swall, Hawley E. Waldron, John F. Walsh, John E. Weist Gordon B. Welly, Robert B Young, John W. Zeller, Lieut. (Seorge H. , Zoss, Abraham O. 
(In Service) 
10. 10. 10. 5. 2. 10. 10. 5. 
10. 5. 5. 2.50 
25. 
6.70 5. 2. 1. 5. 
10. 5. 
10. 5. 5. 
10. 5. 2. 5. 
10. 10. 
5. 15. 20. 20. 
3. 5. 1.50 
2. 
5. 3.46 5. 
2. 
5. 1. 1. 5. 1. 5. 

(107) ; 5,888.85 1942 "" Assad. Victor J. 10. Aubrey, La%vrence J. (In Service) 5. 
j,^agan. Ensign Mervin F. 2.60 
Bergan, Joseph A. 
Bergen, John W. 
Bermingham, J(^m C. -. 
Borda, Ensign John N. . 
Brehl, Bernard F. 
Brown. Roger W, 
Buenger, IJeut. 
Edward A. (Army) — 
Cahill, Jones F. 
Canale. Daniel D. 
Casey, Pvt Donald P. (Army) 
Cody, Thomas P. . f^Xtencannon, Francis J. 
Connors. Lieut. 
Donald D., Jr. (Army) 
Deger. Charles H. (Navy) 
Degnan. lliomas F. 
Desel, Walter J. 
Diamond. Joseph.H. 
Dillhoeffer, Pvt. William F. „ 
Donahoe. Robert R 
Doyle, James P. 
Drake. Pvt Edson J. _ 
Duggan. Pvt. Daniel F. 
Farrell. William J. '. 
Gait Pvt James J. 
Gibson. Francis E. 
Glasser. Phillip W. 
Greisedieck. Edward J. 
Guyette. Donald F. 
Haines. Pvt. Robert C. 
Hanifin, John F. 
Hartman. John F. 
Hartman, William W. 
Hickey. Cadet Lawrence F. 
Hogan. Cpl. Vincent P. 
Hosinsld. William A. 
Humphrey. Leo H. (Navy) . 
Jacoby. Paul J. 
Kilbane, John K. 
Knott, Joseph W. (Navy) . 
Leahy, James J. 
LoGiudice, Dominiek J. 
Lownik, Felix J. 
Lucier. Ensign Phillip J. . 
MacLeod. 2nd Lient 
Archibald _A. 
Madden. Ensign William B. . 
Majerus. I^nis G. 
Malone. John R. 
Makme, Rdiert E. 
SCangan/^illiam E. _^ 
Marshall. William A. .! 
Hatlavish. Ridtard T. 
HcCabe. John F. 
HcGinley. Donald F. 
McGuire. 0>leman L. '^ 
Maguire. John P. 
1. 1. 26. 10. 5. 5. 

-26. I. 1. 1. 5. 1. 
1. 
1 
5. 
6. 
1. 
1. 
1. 
5. 
1. 
1. 
6. 
5. 
1. 
5. 
6. 
2. 
1. 
5. 
1. 
5. 
1. 
5. 
1. 
1. 
5. 
5. 
2. 
1. 
1. 
1. 
1. 
26. 1. 5. 1. 1. 3. 
1. 1. 2. 
1. 12. 
1. 
MeKnr, lie. Bnuri a . 
jferiiin, (^L Ftwa& J. 
(Aimy)————_ 
Meier, WOIluB E. _ _ 
Wader. FVt. WalterX 
Kooidmii. Elwaid 3. 
Karris, 2ad Unit JokB F. _ 
•anow. P*t 'nmiiam F. — MaaUtT. rtba V. -;_:_ Morphy. Ful V. __ _ Knrphy. Siduid C. -_ Xnrray. Smrrr I<. ',,: , OateDahae. Jamn E. ODowd. Enaisn nuc b K.. Owens, Pr t BidiaTd K. Pattenoo. Charles J. 
(V.SJUL) Pajnev FMIttiek J. Keidy, Edward P. : '—. Binella. AntbonT A _ Seenlon. Pvt WilBaB E.. Sdwrer, John A. • Sdler*. IVands !!.____ Senffat. Jcaqph A. . Smoo. lint. Balph H. _. Stewart. Peter W. TmSa. Pa d J. (Navy) . Tbnmd. Bobert F. (Army) . Tnay, Pfe. Jamee H.. T^irsaan. Leo V. Ohl. Georia A _ _ Bhl, Robert C. ' Vest, nands A„ Jr. 
(In Service) Wbalen, Richard T. (Army) _ 
(90) « 
IMS 
Carver. Bohert B. "• Faeney, Genid F. (IJ.SJUL) Kralove^ (Aarles T. 
(n.&NjL) Knrtx. Idois F. Lambert, Walter O. ' Leahy, Joba K. . LeMenie. Bobert P . Ifaher, Thaaas D. _— _ Maloney, John C. -: MeGowan, Blair . KeKm. Bdwaid D. (Karines) BeynoU^ Joaqiii W. Bnmaael, Xehrilla ST 
1M« Gnmfidd. William J.. Jr. . Wbitalier. Charles C. 
(2) « 
S. . 1. 
1. 
I. 
1. 
I. 
1. 
s. 
1. 2. 1. 1. 2. 
1. 
1. 
I. 1. 
S. 
s. 
1. 
2. 
1. 
IM 
i. 
V 
s. 
1. i. I. 
It. s. 
 S1I.M 
1. 
1. 
1. 
t. 
1. 1. S. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. I. 
1S.M 
 «i.M 

faculty when death overtook him. His body is interred in the basemait chapel on the campus and the University has a residence dormitory bearing his name. 
In 1906 Miss Brownson established the Catholic Instruction League in Detroit for the purpose of instructing Catholic children in public schools. At the time of her illness she had some 400 teachers and 13,000 students under her super­vision. Formerly an instructor of math­ematics in a Detroit high school, the medalist resigned her position to devote her time to religious instruction. 
In recognition of Miss Brownson's con­tribution to the cause of Catholic Action, the late Pope Pius XI conferred on her the Papal decoration "Pro Eeelesia et Pontifiee" in 1933. 
Both in CathdHe Action and in tiw field of writing'. Hiss Biownson eanto on the literary tradition of lier fudljr, h^pm by Orestes A. Brownson. Her pnb­lished bodes indnde Living Fonver, Ft»d My Lambs and To the Heart of a CMUL 
O'DONNELL POEMS AVijULAILE 
The CoUeeted Poema of ChaHe* L. (yDoitnelt. C.5.C., recently edited by Father Charies CDmndl's nephew. Fa­ther Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., and, pub­lished by the University Pres^ Notn Dam^ Ind, has met with an entknai­astie reception all throni^ the eoortiy. Copies of the botdc are still svailaUe, however, and may be ordered tiuma^ the Univasity Press at a cost of 18.50 postpaid. 
« «

ALUMNI CLUBS 
CHICAGO 
Willimm P. Kemrney. '28, 519 Cedar St., Winnetkm, UL, Pres.; Franklyn E. Doan. 
•29. 314-17tli St., Wilmctte, III., Sec 
The boys who get out the vote Rot out the vote on Dec 19 at the Chicajro Athletic Associa­tion and came up with a brand new set of ofli­cers for the Chicago Club. 
William P. Kearney, ex-first v.p.. who has been doing a nice job of pinch-hitting for Jane's Fighting Realtor. John F. Clark, was named for the presidency. Didc Phelan and Joe Henncberr>­will be first and second assistants to the new boss, and Fred L. Steers, '11, will be honorary presi­dent. Elevated to the necessity of wearing piped vests at governors* meetings were John Dorgan, Georce Witteried, Joe Shelley, Ed McLaughlin, Jim Cronin, and Jim Lewis. 
The whole thing becomes official on Jan. 26 when the annual election dinner is held. 
Chicago Ciub members are scattering to the four winds in the fight for the four freedoms. The Chicago "Sun" recently narrated some of the exploits of Robert F. Hennessey who has been co-piloting lollypop-throwers over St, Lazaire. Joe Dotgan recently doubled Gibraltar, Africa-bound. Tim Moynihan is a lieutenant in the Marines, stationed in Chicago, and looking much like he did 15 years ago. Ray Mulligan, Ray McClor>' arc naval lieutenants, as is George Coury who was in town recently on leave from his North Carolina base. Bill McCarthy was recently com­missioned a j-g and is going through the initial training at Dartmouth; Spike McAdams, ditto all the way, except that he's at Princeton. (Explain that relativity stuff to Einstein. Spike, and don't let him talk back.) John Coyle is a lieutenant in the Air Corps; Dan Duffy is in Na\-y blue some­where in the vicinity of New Caledonia, and brother Bob Daffy is following in his footsteps. Best news of the holiday period was confirmation of the fact that Notts Tonelli is not missing in action but is a prisoner of war. 
Abacadabra: Ardi Gott, '38, recently became a father .. . John T. Dempsey is running the show for the Republicans in the incipient Chicago may­oralty nominations . . . Ollie Schell, Eddie Riska. and all other Notre Darners now at Great Lakes, are invited to be with us whenever they're on leave and we're putting on a shindig. 
Franklyn E. Doan 
CLEVELAND 
Dr. Fimnos J. Gannon, '31, 10420 S. High­
land Ave.. Garfield Heights, O., Pres.; Law­
rence P. Kial, '31, 276 E. 272nd St., Sec 
The annual Christmas Dance with a formal breakfast, in the capable hands of co-chair­men Norm HcLeod and Bill Van Rooy, high­lighted the Cleveland social scene. 
It was in the Rainbow Room of the Carter Hotel on Dec. 26 and was augmented by the re­turn of many of Notre Dame men now in the various branches. 
(For names and addresses of Cleveland Notre Dame men in service see "Additional Military Men" and class news in this and other issues— Eds.) 
Dr. Frmnlc Gannon has become the new president of the Cleveland group, succeeding Chuck Rohr who resigned, pleading the pressure of business. And since Hike Crawford moved in wiith Uncle Sam, the secretariat fell to old L.P.K. who grew into a lot of new duties since the war and cannot always pound these keys. 
Ray T. Miller, former mayor, and now head of the local Democratic Party, recently turned 50 years of age and Ray's friends gave him a little birthday i)arty at the HoUendon—did I say "lit­tle"? A mere one thousand (1000) sat down to dinner and Ray's response to it all was nifty in­deed . .' . and Tim Galvin was head-tabled as usual. 
Larr>- Krai 
DAYTON 
WUliaa L. StmdE. 'SS. 514 Harries Bite., Pres. and Sec 
The club held a dinner in honor of Lt. (j.^.) Thomas C. Femedinff, '40, in the Van Cleve Hotel. Jan. 7. Lt. Femeding was home on leave after having been wounded while in action with the United States Fleet in the Pacific Many interest­ing experiences were related by him. Having re­cuperated he is again carr>-ing on. Joseph B. Murphy acted as toastmaster. 
The committee consisting of Andrew Aman, chairman, W. E^dmund Shea, and Hugh E. Wall, Jr., made the arrangements for the dinner. The dinner was limited to Notre Dame graduates, old students and present students. 
Moving pictures of the Notre Dame-Northwest­ern football game were shown, also a picture showing the training of parachute troops. 
TTiose attending along with the men already mentioned were: Harty Banjan, E. Walter Baa-man, Capt. Sal Bontempo, Sylvester J. Bams, Walter G. Didcerson, Hon. H. L. Femedinr. Leo Fettig, Wells Finnegan. Elmer J. Focke, Lieat. Harr}- H. Franos, Gerald M. Hanrahan, Ray Haverick. Robert W. Kennedy, Gordon L. Kraass, Fred Langhna, Robert Linsey, Eugene A. Mayl, Frank Padiin, John D. O'Brien, Victor G. Rcil­ing, Tom J. Schiefer, Dr. Carlos Sawyer, Edward Steiner. Al Stepan, Robert Stone, Paul Swift, Carol Thoma, James L. Trent, Major Donali J. Wilkins, and myself. 

At a meeting last week of the Dayton Barris­ters Club two Notre Dame Law College graduates were elected to office for the year 1943: Hagh E. Wall, Jr., president, and myself, treasurer. 
WilUam L. Strsdc 

DELAWARE 
E. J. BnUer, '34, 2324 Washington St., Wil­mington, Pres.; John J. Verbanc, '35, 1519 Delaware Ave., Wilmington. Sec 

The club had its first meeting of the current season on Nov. 20. The following bits of informa­tion were gathered at that time. 
Paul A. Borgman, '40, a midshipman, stationed aboard the U.S.S. Prairie State. New York City. Francis J. Hopldns, Ml, pursuing studies at Co­lumbia University in conjunction with the Navy V-7 program. Mark P, Brown, Jr., ex. '37, a Notre Dame student during the years 1929-1931, had been sent to Officers Training School of the Army Air Corps at Miami. 
J. F. Froning, '37, formerly a member of the Azo Research Division of the Jackson Laboratory, had been transferred to the Chemical Engineering Division of the same laboratory. Fen is the proud father of Anne Cecelia, bom Oct. 29. 
A. T. Mertes, '09, Notre Dame's first chemical engineer, has been transferred from the duPont plant at Newport, Del., to the Edgemoor, Del., plant of the same company. The engagement of Rita V. Kirk of Englecliffs, N. J., to Dr. R. J. ThMaaa lias been announced. Bob had been ap­pointed chairman of the Decent Literature Com­mittee of the Catholic Diocesan Alumni Associa­tion. 
Harry HiDer and Joseph Mdntosh both attended the Hichigan«Notre Dame game. Banm, Thomas, Dccnan, Murray and Kurtz attended the Army game. 
The local alumni association held a highly successful dinner on Nov. 30 at the duPont Coun­try Club in honor of Dean H. B. Froning of the Univer^tv. The following men in addition to 
. Dean Froning were present: Dr. W. S. Calcott, '37, director of Jackson laboratory, du Pont; Al­bert T. Mertes, William D. Bailey, William L. Foabey, E. A. Bried, A. A. Banm. George Schlaa­dedcer, Licat. Edward J. Bntler, J. F. Froning, Cari Irwin. Williara M. Glenn, Robert J. Thomas, Joseph Mantosh, R. Kurtz, T. E. Dillon, W. Bfarray, Thomas Degnan. Chailes Kclley. Walter Cordes, J. J. Verbanc 
John J. Verbanc 
DENVER 
J«ha H. Humphrcrs, 'J2, 1423 Ru e St.. Prea.; Jahn F. Conndl, '23, 2718 Faimore St.. Sec 
Our Notre Darners in the service of Uncle Sam are scattered over more than half the world. Lt. Jack Akolt. ex. *40. is at Lowry Field instructing in photography. Don Alexander, e-v. '29, keeps things busy at Paterson Field. Colorado Springs. Leon Archer. '23, is at twin^engine technical school at Roswell, N. M., Army Flying School. USHC Lt. Tom Barry, '39. reports that the barra­cuda and sharks have property rights and priori­ties on a lagoon near his Marine base in the south­west Pacific. Lt. Chock Cassidy. *38. zooms around Key Field, Hiss., where he is commanding officer of the 312th Dive Bombers. Lt. (j.g.) Geary Con­ner, ei. '29. is at the US Naval base on Frisco's famed Treasure Island. 
After four blistering months on maneuvers over Caiifomia's blistering desert, sun-baked Frank Canway, '27, moved to frigid Fargo, N.D, for officers training. Tom Cnrrican, '41, is with the Quartermaster Corps at Ft. Warren. Wyo. Dr. Henry J. Dillon, '26, according to a very sweet voice that answers his office telephone, is now a major in the Army Medical Corps, Ft. George Meade, Md. 
Pat Oilhm from Castle Rock has been on active duty with the US fleet aboard the USS Mary­land. Ensign Joe Dann, '39, flies at Los Alamitos, Calif., Naval Air Base. USMC Herb FalraU, ex. '39, is living up to the best traditions of fighting Marines—and made up a few good ones of his own during nine months duty in Hawaii—recently re­turned for OCS at Quantico Marine base. Lt. floyd "Dink" Graaier has been moved coast-to­coast to Columbia, S. C, where he is flight in­structor of the 426th Bombing Squadron. With the 417th Infanty at Ft. Meade, Md., is L t Arthur Gcecoiy, '36, of Canon City. Durango's Jen y H«««n, '44, gave up the big field artillery guns at Ft. Sill to enter pre-flight school near San An­tonio, Texas. Cadet Hariy Lawrence is down the home stretch at QM oflicers school at Camp Lee, Va., suh. 

Ed HftnsfieM, *34. has srraduated with the dot-and-dash boys of the Air Corps radio school at Sioux Falls, S. D., Air Base and now stationed at Atlantic City. X.J.» where Ed awaits shipment . . . or OCS. Lt. Joe Nisro, '38, of Trinidad, stopped in Denver recently on his return to Camp Ritchie. Md. Capt Dan Pflanm. '32, is with the St. Louis Plant of the Chemical Warfare Service. Lt. Joe Ryan, '40, is a flight commander of a coast artil­lery anti-aircraft unit down in sweating jungle countries bordering the Caribbean. Sgt. Rnss Sabo with the AAF at Stuttgart Air Held, Ark., expects a move soon. 
Art Sandusky. '34. Denver's frequent visitor, from Wyoming, is with the Troop Carrier Com­mand at Stout Field, Indianapolis. Cpl. Paul Santo, '41, is an instructor at Lowry Field. Ray Smith, *31, goes to sea duty from the Naval Twin­ing Station at Toledo. O. Ensim Bob SUpp, '36, flies at'the Naval Air Station near Corpus Christi, Texas. CpL Joe Stephen, '38, from Longmont boasts about his nine-pound baby daughter to his pals down at Camp Hurphy. Fla. Jesse Suther­land, '42. is at OSC at Dayton, O., Signal Depot. Tom Tierney, ex. '40. "keeps *em flying" with the 55th Bombardment Squadron, Key Field, Miss. 
USHC Sfft. Johnny Wabh, ex. '41, is jiu-jitsu instructor aboard the USS Idaho. Dr. Ed Dele­hanty is assistant superintendent at Norfolk. Nebr.. state hospital. From Leo Robidonx, '41, of Ft. Collins, engineer in Milwaukee's Cutler Ham­mer factories, comes word of his recent engage­ment. Aircrafters Bill Dick, '30, and George Star-back, ex. '34, are uping production schedules in their resi)ective factories in Los Angeles and Kansas City. 
Among the out-of-town ND'ers stationed at present in Denver are: Roy Bairley, '41, Monroe, Mich.; "Bill" Barton and Jim Fisher of Indian­apolis; Joe Burke, '25, of Rockaway Beach. N. Y.; Charlie Callahan. Lexington. Mass.; Bob Dolan, '40, Kansas City, Mo. Ensign Paul Morrison of Lynchburg. Va., is at Fitzsimon General Hos­pital . . . there's a fellow with a happy smile, a great spirit and an unbeatable will to get well. He will . . . you can bet your bottom buck on that. 
We've also had with us many other ND'ers who have moved on to other Army posts. Among them: Tom Ryan, Bob Howard, Manrie Leahy, Tom Sherman, Chick GallaEher, Jim Conly, Ralph Johnston, Bill Carter, Jim Dwyer, John Cotting­bam. Pan! Bclden, Tony Donadio, Jerry Gohman, Tom Gallagher, A] Foos. Francis Sanfilippo and many others. 
On the local front, other Denver ND'ers are engaged in related war industries: John Connell, '23: Louis Hough, '27; Dick Norris, '37; Bill Ehnie, John Falkenberg, Al Bonds. Bob Wind­heim. Jack Shcehan. '36; the McCarty brothers, and others. 
Ed Owens and A] Doads were in charge of ar­rangements for the annual smoker for sports-editors at which motion pictures of the 1941 games were shown and Joe Marshall gave us a peak at his colored movies of the 1940 Georgia Tech game. Jim HcGoldrick, '39. varsity football captain in '38, spotted the players in the film. Jim was in Denver, then, with the local FBI office (hush. hush, you know) with Bob Flynn. Dr. Dan Monaghan and Jim Logan went back to ND for the Michigan game. Joe Myers, Fred Gashorst, and John Hamphreys awarded the Denver ND clubs Knute Rockne Trophy to Regis High School, parochial champions, who went on to clinch Den­ver's 1942 metropolitan football championship. 
Al Doadi and Bart O'Hara are the latest mem­bers of the Denver ND branch of the "fathers club." Neither aided ND's enrollment for 1960­64; both are proud papas of baby daughters. Ed Finn, '28, carries on for Notre Dame up in Salida's mountain region, "a mile nearer heaven." 
At the last meeting, the ND Hen-in-Serviee committee, Fred Gashnrst, Frank Kirchman, and Gene Blish presented an honor roll to the club bearing the names of all the Denver ND men in service. The committee has undertaken an active war-time program and mails regular monthly ND news-letter to the boys who are winning this war for us. 
Bart O'Hara, *32. has been appointed assistant to the United States district attorney for Colorado. Gene BHah 
DETROIT 
John W. Brennan, '27, clo American Blower Corp., 632 Fisher Bldg-. Pres.; Paal Foley, '37, Seon Inc., 34th Floor, Eaton Tower. Sec 
New officers, to head the club for 1943, were named at the annual election meeting held. Dec. 
9. John W. Brennan was elected president to suc­ceed Malcolm F. Knans. Brennan has served as trustee of the club and headed its Placement Bu­reau. His business address is 632 Fisher Building, where he is connected with the Detroit office of the American Blower Corporation. Other oflScers are: C. Marcellns Vcrbiest, vice-president; Mid­American Insurance Co., 1104 United Artists Building. Paul Foley, secretary; Seon Incorpor­ated. 34th Floor. Eaton Tower. George Mortis, treasurer; Fisher Body Corporation. General Mo­tors Building. 
Trustees who will serve during the coming years are: Howard F. Beechinor, John W. Bren­nan, Jack Brecn, Arthur D. Cronin, George T. Hanlon, Jr., Theodore F. Feldman, Malcolm F. Knans, Charles M. Martin, Frank J. McGinnis, Judge Thomas C. Murphy, Gilbert F. Schaefcr, 
C. Marcellns Verbiest, and honorary trustee Da­vid Van Wallace. 
Official address of the club for 1943 will be 3408 Eaton Tower. Detroit. Paul Foley 
KENTUCKY 
Joseph F. Donaldson, '23, 613 WaU n Drive, Lonisvillc. Pres.; Albert E. Saleh. '34, 3102 Sora, LottUville, See. 
The annual club Communion-fareakfast was held Dec. 13 at St. Mary of Magdalen Church. The surprise of the event was the presence of Mo.t 
BcT. Itkm V. O'Han. C.S.C DLD.. anxiliuy bishop of the Army and Navy diocese, who aaid the Mass, assisted by Father Mensa. pastor ot St. Mary of Magdalen parish. Chib nmnbers pres­ent were carried back to their student days as. Bishop O'Hara save Commimion and preached the aermon. Breakfast was served in the pariabi school by the ladies' of the parish. ItiJn, O'Hara. greeted each former student individually and re­called, with an uncanny memory, each person'a name and many past school incidents. He and Father Carey, chaplain at Fort Knox, and Father Hensa spoke. The entire affair was liandled by Bin Kelacrt. Jr.. and in spite of the near zero temperature and snow, tlie event was well attend­ed. Several members also brousht their wives. 
The much'^Iayed stag set-toKether was hdd oa Dee. 19. A short business meetinsr, condoeted by Picxy Diaiiiiia. preceded it. The dub dance, to fallow the KenttKky-NJ>. basketball game on Jan. 23 was discussed. FraiUc CaUO, Bill Beiicrt. Jadt Caraey and Bill Baaler were, among others^ active in promoting the game and the dance. 
In a recent canvass of club members it was found that the Army and Navy now have the following long list of men from this area, and . the club wishes to assure them that we are still thinking of them and praying for their success and early return: 
Those in the army include Harry J. Aascr­meier. Dr. Henry Aaauin, Glena Aafcrcy, l<aw­loee Jaaepk Aabrey, Jain W. Baaaaa. Pat Bannaa, WilBaai C. BasAawyer. Ckarles B . BasdiBMycr. Dr. Jaka K. Faltz, WUtney Grccaiy. Jr.. Marian J. Hefferaaa. Dr. Jalui M. Kcaaey. Jr.. Walter A. Keaaey. EaiaMtt Kirwai^ WiBam 
F. Marraw, Kay J. Nakcr. Jimaiy Schaa^ Bab­ert Schaaw W. Taai Skerwm, Paal Jaha Tafd. and William Waeraer. Those in the Navy in­clude Bemie CriaiBdas and Carl Rattenaaa. 
Tlie secretary has heard from Carl Ratterman, California, and Lt. John Keaney, Englaml. Bfll Sherauui said that brother Tom was in India. 
Rabctt J. Barks, '36, has been a member of the FBI for several months. Both Ed Aabrey and David Baird are now aiding in washing diapers, each having a family additon. 
A.E.Saldi 

Tom Lieb, '23. heod coach at th* UniTnsilr oi Florida, was guMt spMlEar al a Hoir Name Communion-Breakfast attended by mora than 300 samcMBon. efficen, and dap­lains from Camp Blanding. Fla. The USO Clob opeiated by the. National CathoKc CMB­munity Service in Staike sponsored the evenL lieb. brongfat eothnsiastic applonse booi servicemen, who stood and sang the "Nolle Dome Wetosr March" at his depoxtiiie. He was introduced by Louis J. Beilly. '40. then assistant director oi the cinb. now an ensign. Left to light: Brig.-Gen. Jeffrey Baldwin. Chaplain Comll Boland. SJ. lieb. M^ec William Townsend. Chaplain John J. Dineea. and Manns Bisloy. director ol the Starke USO-NCCS. 
mates or even roommates of former ND student 

DENVER CLUB LEADS IN WAR ACTIVITIES days. 
The Denver Notre Dame club during 1942 quickly geared itself to war-time alumni activities and -with the appointment of an ND Men-in­Ser\'ice Committee tinder the chairmanship of Fred Gnshnrst, former teammate of Knutc Rocknc, and Frank Kirdtman and Gene Blish, launched a program of alumni contacts with Denver Notre Dame men scattered around the world. 
"We were then beginning something entirely new," recalls President John Humphreys of the Denver alumni. *'At first, our only objective was to maintain contacts with our own Denver boys in the service. However, today, this vital activity has uncovered a splendid source of good will be­tween Notre Dame and the families of the boys who are away. In addition, our program has grad­ually expanded now to the point where we reach Notre Dame men temporarily stationed in Denver at one of the many nearby army camps and in­clude them in our local activities and get­togethers." 
The first step in the Denver program last spring was the assembling of an accurate mailing list of men in Ber\-ice. That list, incidentally, has tripled in the past year, and committeemen esti­mate that an average of four changes have been made in each man's service address since the program was begun. 

From the outset, a monthly ND news-letter has been the keystone for keeping Denver club con­tact with the ND men in uniform and from that letter many other phases of the program have developed. The Denver ND newsletter is typewritten and multigraphed, and mailed regu­larly to its readers around the world between the 15th and the 18th of each month. In it is noted the up-to-date location of every man from the Denver club area away in ser\-ice and some remark or story about his recent activities. "One of the big secrets of the rapid success of our Denver letter," continued Humphreys, "is the fact that every Denver man who receives the letter will find his own name mentioned in it." After several months* experience, the Denver club reports that in these letters the boys are interested, first of all, in news about each other. Other items which are rated high: News about "the other ND'ers still at home and ND club ac­tivities ; home-town production, bond quotas, and other local developments that are helping to win the war; Notre Dame campus activities; athletic news and scores from Notre Dame. In other words, the ND news letters include much information which the boys do not receive in other letters 
from home. 
Enclosed with each letter is a self-addressed reply postal card on which the boys are asked to write a short message back to the club. He-plies are amazingly high each month. This not only supplies much interesting and authentic in­formation about the boys which will be used for the next letter, but also automatically maintains an accurate mailing list despite its growing size. 
In gathering accurate news data for the letters, the Denver club has unexpectedly come upon one of the most important "by-products" of its activ­ities ; that of frequent telephone calls or personal contacts by the committee with the families of the boys in service. The mothers and dads, too, receive copies of the letters which are sent to their sons. Many of them have become so inter­ested in the club's program that they voluntarily call to report some good news about their son for the next issue of the letter. It is difficult to measure the tremendous good-will gained by Notre Dame and the local alumni as a result of thii friendly eftort on the part of the club ±o keep in contact with "their boys." 
In the recent Christmas edition of the news­letter, the Denver ND boys all over the world were told that on the day before Christmas a special Mass would be offered for their intention in Dillon Hall chapel on the campus. Many of those boys, we have learned since, were either in combat or at posts so far removed that they were unable to hear Mass on Christmas morning. One fellow wrote back: ". . . it wasn't quite so hard to miss Christmas Mass for the first time in my life when I pictured myself halfway 'round the world, back at Notre Dame again, in Dillon chapel at the special Christmas Mass the ND club had offered for my intention." 

Through contact with the chaplains' offices at the various army posts and hospitals, USO clubs, and other service clubs, the Denver Notre Dame club has the regard and the attention of those directors in charge. Through their cooperation, the club has secured permanent notices on bulletin boards in chapels and Army recreation rooms both on and off the posts to direct new-coming NDers to Denver alumni headquarters. Through this means, the club has been able to reach many Notre Damers temporarily stationed at Denver posts, to visit them in army hospitals, and fre­quently directs them, while in Denver, to class-
CHECK LIST OF SOME WAR TIME ACTIVITIES FOR YOUR N. D. MEN IN SERVICE COMUnTTEE 
1.
 Regular, monthly ND news-letter to all you dub members in service. 

2.
 Frequent contacts between your Notre Dame dob and Notre Dame families of the boys in service. 

3.
 Arrange for Masses to be said for the intentions of your ND boys in service. 

4.
 Team-work with yonr near-by posts* chaplains, USO clubs, etc 


3. Bulletin board notices, announcements in post newspapers, etc., will help yon find other ND men stationed near yoor 
dab. 
G.Invite ont-of-town NDcrs to your local meetings; hdp them locate their for­mer classmates and friends in yoar community. 
7.
 Viut Notre Dame men in Army or Navy hospitals near yoa. The diaplain wiU help yon in locating NDers and ar^ ranging visits. 

8.
 Tie-in with the war-woric, defense train-inc programs, and fiU-in where year local community needs volonteers on the home front. 


Eds*. Note: The Men-in-Service activity of the Denver dub was one of the first and one of the most extensive to come to the attention of the Alnmni Association. We realize that different membership prob­belms confronting eadi dnb will influence its local program in this respect. If yonr dub already has a "Hen-in-Service** activ­ity, the Alnmni Office will be glad to hear abont it. Those of yoa who plan to under­take this activity in the future are invited to profit by the experience of the Denver dnb by writins to the Denver Notre Dame Club, ND Hen-in-Service Committee, c-« Gene Blish, *34, 1540 Oneida Street, Den­ver; or writanc directly to the Alnmni Of­fice at the University. The presidents of all ND alumni dubs will receive a copy of tike January issue of die Denver ND news­letter as an example of how the Denver dnb handled this matter. 
Ihe Denver club has had out-of-town NDers as thdr guests at every one of their regular monthly dinner meetings; frequently invites them for Sunday dinners at their homes. The visit­ing ND Army boys themselves have reported how much they've enjoyed finding a Notre Dame wel­come waiting for them in a strange ton'n. 
One of the most outstanding features of the Denver cIuVs contact with ND men stationed in Denver was the arrangement made by the ND Hen-in-Service committee for Christmas dinners with Denver Notre Dame families for out-of-town ND men stationed in Denver during the holidays. Through the hospitable cooperation of the alum­ni, every known Notre Darner at Denver Army posts on Christmas Day was invited by a Notre Dame family for Christmas dinner. One case was particularly interesting: An ND lad arrived at Denver's Lowry Field on the day before Christ­mas; saw the ND notices on the field chapel bul­letin board, phoned the ND committee, and. al­though he had been in Denver less than 24 hours, there was a Christm'as dinner waiting for him at the home of a lad whom he had known at Notre Dame. 
Among the unexpected functions, the Denver ND Men-in-Service committee has, or, is prepared to perform: Forwarding of mail sent by Denver ND men in service to others, in care of the Den­ver Notre Dame Club; arranging for get-togethers of Notre Damers at distant posts by checking our mailing lists and sending sets of names and ad­dresses to all Denver ND men at the same post; locating, on request, the service address of a Den­ver NDer's friends or classmates who live in other dties; a section of one of the recent ND news­letters gave the Army and Navy locations of many other Denver men in service — not Notre Dame alumni — but well-known by all of the Denver ND group. 
Hie Denver club's ND Men-in-Ser\-ice commit­tee, while it has undertaken far more than ever planned when its fellow-members first set out on their road to Victory, has and will continue to meet the needs of the men in service and the alumni of that district. It has directed and ac­complished an important war-time alumni activity that can be easily handled with reduced member­ships by other clubs. 
In the program and the experience of the Den­ver dnb, other Notre Dame alumni groups will find the basis and the strong objectives for an active war-time alumni program in the men in service that maintains contact with those away and lays the foundations for a stronger, unified alumni group when the boys return home and peace is won. 
LOS ANGELES 
John W. Carbenr. '3S, 942 S. Detroit. Pns.; Uduwl F. Shannon, Jr.. ex. 'if. 4311 Vic­toria Park Drive, Sec. 
Climaxing an active year despite war time difii­colties, the club entertained 400 members, fniest^ and their ladies, Nov. 27, (eve of the II.S.C. game) at a "Fightinff Irish" Victory Rally and Buffet Supper at the Biltmore Hotel. 
Pat O'Brien was master of ceremonies of a star-studded program that included Red Skelton, Alan Carney, Dennis Morgan, and Bill Thomp­son, multiple-character star of the Fibber HcGee show. Bing Crosby was unable to attend, hut sent Wingay Hanone's orchestra as his contribution. Ban r FlaaMiy. Fianda Wallace, and Joseph Set t spoke during the evening. University offi­da b introduced were Ber. FnmeU CaTanaagh. 
'C.S.C.. J. Artfcar Haky. and J M Petritz. Coach **•>* Leahy was ill and unable to attend. The team stayed over night in Pasadena. Motion pic­' tures of the 1942 Notre Dame team in action 

were shown by Assistant Coach Ed BfcKeerer, 
Harry Miller, '10, father of players Tom and 
Creiffhton Miller, was another notable guest. 
Notes—Ensign Thomas P. Foye, '39, was recent­ly married to Kathleen O'Connor. -. •. Thanks to Ed Cnnninsham who was acting secretary and did most of the work on the Rally. . . . ThanlES also to President John Carberry, Hollywood pub­licity man, who lined up all the talent, and to Leo Ward who helped Ed Cunningham. .. . An­other gold medal to Northrup Aircraft's engineer Sweeney Tack, '39 (winner of the Hering award for forward passing in 1938) for a s\vell job in scouting U.S.G. for Frank Leahy. 
Mike Shannon. 

John Rider is-office manager of the Biow Agen­cy which handles all the Philip Morris programs. Xiast year he travelled 76,000 miles, selecting vari­ous college representatives for the Fred Allen show. Neil Ran is still reporting for Louella Far-sons and has his own column besides. Louis Ber­ardi is a pharmacist, but will soon be in the Army. Lieut. Gene Kennedy is up in Salt Lake City in the Adjutant General's headquarters. 
Corp. C. J. Scott has left for foreign combat service. Nick Lakats, Lt., j.g., is stationed in Idaho. Francis Wallace's new book, '"Explosion," comes ofit the press Feb. 10. Ardi Ward, sports editor of the Chicago "Tribune," and family, were here for the Rose Bowl game and spent a week with the Don Ameches and visited with many of the local alumni. 
John "Judge" Carberry 

NEW YORK CITV 
Joseph G. Friel, '29. Hotel Woodstock. 127 
W. 43rd St., Pres.; Timothy J. Toomey, *30, Hotel Woodstock, 127 W. 43rd St , Sec. 

On Dec. 6, Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was observed by the club in Our Lady's Chapel, S t Patrick's * Cathedral. Most Rev. J. Francis A. Mclntyre, D.D.. auxiliary bishop of New York, presided at Holy Mass. which was offered for all Notre Dame men who have given their lives in World War n . An informal get-together and breakfast following the Mass was held at Schrafft's Fifth Ave. Restaurant No cere­mony or speech making, but plenty of interesting round table discussions. Host Ber. Jidui F. O'Hara, Joseph M. Byrne, '15. and Grattan Stanford, '04, were invited guests. Colman O'ShaoKhnessy, *31, and Joseph G. Friel. '29. were in charge of arrangements. 
Greg Rioe, '39, America's ace distance runner, has been inactive during the fall and early winter track season due to a severe leg injury. He is slowly rounding into shape and is confident that he will be ready to face Oliver Hanter, '43. in the two-mile special at the Milrose A.A. games on Feb. 6 at Madison Square Garden. 
Bob Hamilton, '28. has temporarily left the jur­isdiction of the New York Club to take a position with Pan-American Airways in Miami. We have been advised that when last seen Roberts was touring the state on a bicycle rounding up all Notre Dame men for the purpose, of forming an­other outstanding Notre Dame alumni group. If loyalty and hard work are requisites, you can bet your ration book that Bob will succeed in his pur­pose. The Notre Dame Club of New York hopes that he completes his duties in Florida quickly and is re-assigned to New York where we miss and need him. 
The officers and members of the Notre Dame Club of New York extend heartfelt sympathy to the< family of the late Ensicn Bbtthew A. Byrne. Jr., '42, who was killed in a training plane crash in Florida on Dec. 19. (See elsewhere in "Alum­nus" for complete details.) 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
The club lost another loyal supporter through death during the Christmas holiday in Major Gen­eral Alexander Anderson, former commander of New York's famous 69th regiment (The fighting Irish). Tlie general frequently appeared at the club's affairs as a speaker and guest 
Through Ned Irish, collegiate basketball direc­tor at Madison Square Garden, all club members received applications for the annual N.Y.TT.­Notre Dame basketball game at the Garden on Feb. 13. Flans for an informal gathering follow­ing the gama are, as this is written, in the making. 
Club members and families of club members are urged to notify the club secretary of all ad­dress changes. 
Members entering the armed forces are request­ed to notify the national alumni secretary so that an accurate and up-to-date record of Notre Dame men in World War II can he kept 
Remember to say a few prayers daily for all Notre Dame men in the Armed Forces. 
If you have not already done so, make a con­tribution to the Alumni Fund. Tim Toomey 
PANAMA & CANAL ZONE 
Dr. Gaillermo Patterson. Jr., '11, 46 Pera Ave., Panama R. P.. C.A., Pres.; Joseph H. Harrington, '39, Box 739. Ancon. Canal Zone, Sec 

The club held its annual election recently. The president of the club. Dr. Gmllenno Patterson. '13. 
was reelected. Yiee^rendent ia Fnuk Fllieatiht, '39, and flecretaxy-treasorer is J. H. 
Durins the football season there were several getrtogethers for Satniday afternoon broadcasts of 
In Panama, as in all Latin American countries, Colnmbos Day cm Oct 12 is an important day of celebration. The Notre Dame ctah participated in the public rdigioos erprriws at the Ckthedral in Panama C^ty and attended the Coranranion Break­fast in a body. 
Doe to the fact that half of the club is eom­posed of men in the Service the meetings are of unpredictable attendance. 
The club is planning a big St. Patricias Day celebration and committees have already been ap­pointed. Bin .ShfrMia. '38. (the assistant DJL for the Canal Zone) was dioaen to be general chair­man and toastmaster. 
Recent visitors to Panama who communicated with members of the local club include Jeny Kaae, '38, and wife and daui^ter. enroote from Lima. Pera to California. Dr. Jaee Mariatesni, ex. '23, from Managoa to Goayaqoil where he is consul-general for Peru. Entivae Radrigaes; '3D, en-route from Carapito. Venezuela, to bis home in Tampieo. Mexico (P.O. Box 732). Enrique was In Engineering in 192G-1930 and would like to bear from others in his class. 
On Christmas Eve Ji a Raaf, '39, arrived by plane from Plem enronte to Florida to enter Naval 
Leo B. Mdntyxe. '28. prendant of tli* Eartwn PwuMylwania Holn DOM OaK pn­sentSf in the ncone oi the UiiiT«nitr> a peiltail of tho lata bat e BedoM. 14. to Cwlial Cotliolie High schooL AUentown. Pa. n * piehii* will hong ia th* now ttoekam Hodl wkSA is a port of the schooL 
Flesent at the ceremony, on Dec. 3. war*. left to li^ : BL ROT. Msgr. Lao G. Flak. principal of the school; Leo Crowe. '34. eoadi ei baMkafbaO: Bar. Hanir ]. ITm—rw. director of studies; John Carolier. '38. alUelie ditecler and ooodi of foollMin; oad Mr. Mclntyre. who is engaged in the real aatoie and iniurwiiro liminsM ia BelMshsM. to. ond is a newly elected treosurar of tha board of Imalaoa of dM BaOldMm Pnblie Ubfoqr* 
Air Service. An impromptu party was arranged by his classmates, Frank Fitch, Fitzpatrick and Harrincton, and the yam-swapping lasted until time for midnight Mass. At daylight Jim boarded another plane and was on his way to Miami. 
Another recent visitor here was Spike Murphy, 

•40, who stayed a couple of days. 
Bill Shmkeipeare, '36, is a periodic visitor to Panama. Another regular visitor is Dr. Jose Apodaca, '30, formerly of the faculty of eco­nomics. 
Lt. CoL Raymond Brady, '2i. had to return to the States because of failing eyesight. He is now at La Guard General Hospital in New Orleans, where he under^vent a successful operation. 
In a recent issue of the Spanish edition of the company-magazine of Pan-American Airways there was an aerial view of the Notre Dame campus. 
Georve Mcacfaer, captain of the track team in 1936, is a recent addition to the local medicos. The first thing he did when he arrived was to begin looking up Sabbie Dn Cassa, *36, and Joe Coitm. '36, who were track teammates of his in years gone by. 
BUI Cerri, '32, of Mishawaka. is living in Cocoli where he is doing some architectural work for the 
G. Z. government. 
Frank GranenfeUer, M.A. '41, is another recent arrival. He is employed as a Customs Inspector at the Port of Balboa. 
Rafael Grimaldo, ex. '33, has moved from Colon to South Bend and lives at 717 Harrison St. 
Jim White, '33, is still working in the office of the Panama Railroad at Panama City. He was a great sailing enthusiast until the wartime restric­tions slowed up local yachting. 
Bill Allen has a boss job with the supply department of the Panama Canal, which permits him to spend his week-ends up in the mountains of the interior provinces. 
PHILADELPHIA 
E. Bnde r Bailey, ex. '23, Rydal, Pa., Prea.; dUToid E. PradcU, '32, 6070 Oieater Ave., 

BIEETINGS—Second Tuesday of everj- month, Philopatrian Clab, 1923 Walnut St., 8:30 P. M. 
Our jamboree was held on Jan. 12 and well over 150 attended, including many of the boys still on the campus. Prexy Ed Bailey got the Philopatrian Club modified showing sound films of the attack on Pearl Harbor and America's entry into the war. Crcislit and Tom Miller, of Wilmington, Del., gave their personal comments on some *42 foot­ball movies. Coaches Clipper Smith and Vince HcNally showed us Villanova football highlights, with C.'ipper injecting his tangy humor. Paul Toland presented his colored films of Notre Dame campus scenes, and they are really beautiful shots. 
Among those present were Leo R. Mclntyre, of Bethlehem, president of the Eastern Pennsylvania Club, Paul Fink, Allentown, John Cavalier and Veo Crowe, coaches of Allentown Central Catholic High. Bill Sluelds and J. Kresock came down from Temple University Medical School and brought along their classmate, John McKeon. 
Hie Navy was represented by Lt. Comm. John 

D. Beardon who is stationed at the Naval Hos­pital, Lt. Frank Honerkamp, L t Walt Phillips, (the proud papa), Lt. Bill Moss, Lt. Baden Powell, Ensisn Jade Neeson and Enngn Paul Nowak. Mrs.* W. G. Bams pinch-hitted for her sons. Bob, Jr., '41. and BiD G., '40, as did Fred Prick, father of Ensijrn Jimmy, '42. On the Army bench: Major Bernard Hulvihill, Pitt, '10. and Coach Stan Chan­owicz. Drop kicker John Kelleher, *40, and the Missus were there, too. John was recently elected to the outstanding medical fraternity—election is based entirely on scholarship ability. 
The No tre Dame Alumnus 
John J. Brady, treasurer of the club, suddenly died on Jan. 9. We'd like through the "Alumnus'* to extend this additional word of sympathy and appreciation to his family. 
aiff Prodehl 

Lou Alaman. as the chairman of the speakers committee of the club, in early January showed Paul Toland's colored pictures of the campus to the Hi-Y Club of Central High School and to three groups at the Germantown Y.M.C.A. Lou was highly enthusiastic about such a club activity and its potential value to the University. Soon after, he was forced to resign from the job due to his just-in-the-ofling call to the military. 
ROCHESTER 
Frank X. Connelly, ex. '34, 1552 Chili Ave., Pres.; Robert C. Odenbadi, '41, 323 Aberdeen St, Sec. 

In accordance with their annual custom, mem­bers of the club received Holy Communion in a body in St Mary's Church, on Sunday. Dec 6. Several rows in the front of the church were reserved for them. 
SANDUSKY 
John J. Hillott. « . '27. 913 Osborne St., Pres.; John E. Savord, '40, 703 Fcick Baild­ine. Sec 

We held our January meeting on Jan. 13, and among other items of business, made plans for a dinner meeting early in February with the mem­bers' wives as honored guests. 
Attorney Thomas Mnrray, ex. '30. was recently installed as president of the Erie County Bar Association. 
Thomas M. Brown, '30, has been coaching bas­ketball this winter at St. Paul's high school, in Norwalk, O. 
We have recently learned that K. K. Roijme, Jr., is employed at the Trojan Powder Company, near Sandusky, but as yet we have not a meet­ing at a time he could attend. 
John E. Savord 

WESTERN PENNSyLVANIA 
Jain MclbhM, '28. MC LmKiidce DriTC. Manit LeW— . Pa^ Pre*.; WOlUai H. Gin­<er. Jr„ '31. 5M Gettyskarc St.. Pitlskarfli. Pa. 
Our deepest sympathy goes to the family of Leo A. Sdineider, *28, who died suddenly on Nov. 29. 
On Nov. 27, we had a fine get-together at the Royal York Apartments. We discussed a method of raising money for the school's Centenary and it was decided that a war bond or defense stamp plan of donation would be the most suitable. A Centenary Fund Committee consisting of Leo J. Voffd. chairman. Jolln C. Shecdy; and Wm. H. 
H. Gindcr. Jr.. was appointed. Members were ad­vised by mail of our complete plan. 
Among those attending the smoker were; Tom 03riea. '40, and Eddie O'Brien. '34; Bill Snehr. '34; Pinky Martin, '27; Hany Wanderiy, '37; Jakn Criaiaiini, '33; Leo Vocel. '17, John Ward, ex. '20: Joe Brtic, ex. '27; John McSotley. '28: Dr. Kickard OToole. '30: Dick O'Donnell. '31: Father Vince Brennan. '32; Lieat. Jack Monte-TCtde. '38; John Mdlahon, '28; BiD Ginder. '31; Jahn Biiley. '23; John PaWick. '34: Hnch Boyle. '24; Tex Brieccr. '31; Pan] Leiko. '35 ; Bill Haga­tall. '31; Tarn Hopkins. '30; H. Scott Sheedy. '39: Cleai Sweeney, '26; Jack Sheedy. '28: Bob Kvat­
•ak. '39; Jahn Reatdon, '22; Bob Hartman. '32: Jack Barr. '24: John Ryan, 26; and Hugh Galla-Aer. '30. (Show your wife these names and ma>*­be you, too, can get out for the next affair— which we hope to hold every four or six weeks). , Jadt Montevcrde, who came up the hard way to second lieutenant, can be reached at A.F.S., Fort Knox, Ky. 
Jack Barr. proudly announces the arrival of Mary Carol on Dec. 22. It's his first child. Mother and daughter are fine. Father's feet haven't touched the ground yet—he's so happy. 
^• ^ Hickey. '30, recently took unto himself a 
bride, Kay Wilson of Edgewood, Pa, in S t Pat­
rick's Church, Harrisburg. He also received a com­
mission, second lieutenant, about the same time. 
Wra. H. H. Ginder. Jr. 

ADDITIONAL MILITARY MEN* 
(Including names received and classified up to Jan. l.=i). 
Accra, Julian F., ex. '35, In Service. Allard. Joseph T.. e-x. '43, 2nd Lt, U.S. Marine Corps Reserves, Corpus Christi, Texas. 
Alonzi, Peter T., '40, U.S.N.R., Recruit Issue, Bldg. N.. Great Lakes Naval Training Station, Great Lakes, 111. 
Archer, Leon W., e-x. '29, Pvt, U. S. Army, 965 T.E. Flying Tng. Sqdn., Roswell Army Fly­ing School, Roswell, N. Mex. 
Backes, Norbert W., ex. '34, Pvt, U.S. Army, Fort Sheridan, III. Bagan, Earl D., "41, c/o Fleet Post Office. San Francisco, Calif. Bagan. Menrin F.. '42, Ensign, U.S.N.R., A.P.O. 
811. cjo Postmaster, Miami, Fla. Barber, Georxe W., '35, 1st Lt , F.A. Gunnery Dept, Held Artillery School, Fort Sill, Okla. Barr, Joseph J., '42, Candidates' Class Co. 1, no. 
10, Marine Barracks, Quantico, Va. Bartnett, Edmond J., '38, Hdqs. Co., Camp Upton, 
N. Y. Beilstein, Henry J., ex. '40, Sgt. U.S. Army, Camp Lee, Va. 
Beres,-Emery A., '41, A.S.. U.S.N.R., .V-7, 603 Tower Hall, 820 Tower Court Chicago, III. 
• Names are listed here only once—when they are first received by the Alumni Office. Changes in military addresses are included in class news. 
Blake, Marion J., '33, 2nd Lt., Airplane Mechanics School, Army Air Forces Tech. Trng. Command. Seymour Johnson Held, N. G. 
Batcaun, Paal A.; '40, U.S.N.R., Midshipman. Brandon, Laeai H.. '31, Pvt., U.S. Army, 10th Special Service Unit, Fort Bliss, Texas. 
Brennan. Robert J.. '29. L t (j.g.), U.S.N.R., 131 Cuyler Hall, U.S. Naval Ttraining School. Princeton University, Princeton, N. J. 
Brodhedt. Walter F., '41, U.S. Army. 1550 Hdns.. Service Unit, ASN no. 35342081, Fort Knox, Ky. Brown. Mark P., ex. '37, Officers Training School, 
U.S. Army Air Corps, Miami, Fla. 
Barke. Joaeph P., '25, U.S. Army, 3rd Platoon, 107 M.H.T.C., Camp Robinson, Little Rock, Ark. 
CahlD. Robert L., ex. '26. Lt, U.S.N.R., General 
Ordnance School, Washington Navy Yard, D. C. Callahan, Charles M, '38, U.S. Army. CampheO, JoKph F.. '38, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's 
School, Rm. 1237, John Jay Hall, New York 
City. Carroll. Charles V.. '39, Ensign, U.S.N.R., E-V(P). CarraD, Paal W., '35, U.S. Army. Ca»alero, Howard G.. '42. In Service. Chamwicx, Stanley J., ex. '38, U.S. Army. Oapaan. Jikn J., ex. '34, U.S. Army, Hq. & Hq. 
Co., 355 Inf., 89th Div., Camp Carson, Colo. Clark, Jahn F„ '35, L t (j.g.), U.S.N.R., 335 S. Lombard Ave., Oak Firk, III. 

Cockr. Edward A., Jr., '33, U.S. Naval Training Station, Princeton University, Princeton, N. J. CoUini. Henry D., '40,Lt., U.S. Army Signal 
Corps. Cotton. Charies F.. '29, 1st Lt., Medical Adminis­
tration Corps, Camp Grant, 111. Coitett, Frank E.. '30, Ensign, U.S.N.R. Corcoran, John B., '41, U.S. Army. Coscrove, Robert E„ ex. '43, Sst, U.S. Army Air 
Force, Operations Intelligence Duty, Hdqs., Bombardment Sqdn. 
Courtney. Robert F., '42, Pvt., U.S. Army, Soutli Plains Army Flying School. 455 Base Hq. & Air Base Sq., Lubbock, Texas. 
Crandell. Wibon B.. '41, U.S. Coast Guards, Nor­
folk, Va. Crav. Akxander R.. H.A. '41, Ensign, U.S.N.R. Crisd. Cnitodo A.. '38, Lt., U.S. Army, c/o Post­
master, A.P.O. 3006, Brooklyn, N. Y. Cammlncs. Joseph P.. Jr.. '40, Ensign, U.S.N.R.. 
Supply Corps. Tillimark, Ore. Caramincs, Matthew J., e.<c. '44, In Service. Cnrran. John M., '40, Pfc, A.P.O. 937, c/o Post­
master, Seattle Wash. Cnrran, Prial. '37, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, New York City. Cnrrican. Thomas G., '41, Pvt.. U.S. Army, Co. A, Fort Losan, Colo. Cnsick, Joseph F., ex. '29, In Sen-ice. 
Dalton, Edmund G.. ex. '40, Cadet, U.S. Army Air Force Reserve, Service Pilot IVaining School, Northeaston University, Boston, Con­cord, N. H. 
DeHayes. Loaii A., ex. '39, U.S. Army, Fort Mc­Clellan, Ala. Dell. Charles E., '40, Corp., U.S. Army, Co. G, 60th Med. Bn., Camp Butner, N. C. 
Denvir, Edward J., ex. '12. A/C, V-6, Regt. 21, Co. 1812, Great Lakes Naval Training Station, Great Lakes, 111. 
DetwiUer. John H.. '42. Pvt.. U.S. Army, 1st Platoon, Co. M, 3rd C.W.S., Trng. Bn., Camp Sibert, Gadsden,AIa. 
Devercux, Lawrence A.. '40, Corp.. U.S. Army, Ordnance Motor Base, Atlanta, Ga. Dickinion, Donald A., ex. '35. U.S. .\rmy. Camp 
Perry, O. Dillhoefer. William F.. '42, F\-t., U.S. Army. Dodson. James W.. '30, Lt., U.S.N.R., C-32 Straus 
Hall, U.S. Naval Training Station, Harvard 
University, Cambridge. Mass. Dolmage. Dr. Georxe Howard, '26, U.S. Army. Donadio. Anthony P., '42, U.S. Army, Camp Lee, 
Va. Donahue, Charles W., '25, Lt.. U.S.N.R.. U.S. Naval Training Station, Quonset Point, R. I. Donthat. Morton Z., '35, Pvt., U.S. Army, Co. A, Ordnance Trng. Bn., Ordnance Replacement Training Center, Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md. Draves. Harry W., '30, Pvt., U.S. Army. Co. B. 
1st Bn.. 1st Platoon, Camp Wheeler. Ga. Doha, SUvin P.. '28, In Sen-ice. Daffecy. Midiael J., '27. In Service. Dwycr. James M., '35, Pvt.. U.S. Army Air Corps, 
Buckley Field, Denver, Colo. 
Eaton, Wilbur S., '25. Capt.. U.S. Army Medical Corps. Edwards. Etskine C . '32. Pvt.. U.S. Army, Officer Candidate School, A.A., Camp Davis, N. C. Elmore. Geone M., '38, Lt., U.S. Army, Gunter Field, Montgomery, Ala. 
Falrley. George E., ex. '42, Pvt, U.S. Army. 
A.P.O. 702, c/o Postmaster, Seattle, Wash. FarreU. J. Neil, '35, A.P.O. 10501, c/o Postmaster, 
New York City. Farrell. James P.. '33, S/Sgt., U.S. Army, A.P.O. 
32. c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. 
Farrell. Marcus E.. '28, Lt.. U.S.N.R., U.S. Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Fla. 
Feeney, Bernard J.. '39. Sgt. U.S. Army. 1359 Pask, Rd., N.W., Washington, D. C. Fish. William A. '42, U.S. Army. 2nd Platoon, Co. 
D, 60th Med. Bn., Camp Butner, N. C. Fitspatrick. Thomas M.. '40. In Service. Flanagan. Edward J.. '37. 2nd Lt.. U.S. Army Air 
Corps, Ground Crew, 335th Bombing Sqdn., 95th Bombing Group, Geiger Field, Spokane, Wash. Flanagan. John I.. '35. Sgt.. U.S. Army Air CorxM Supply, 921st T.S.S. (Sp.), Atlantic City. N. J. 
Foley. Charles J.. '25, Capt, U.S. Army Medical Corps. 311th Med. Bn., 86th Inf. Div., Camp Howze, Texas. 
Foley. Thomas C . ex. '42, Lt , U.S. Army, I2th Armored Div., Fort Campbell, Ky. 
Foley. William G.. '41. Naval Aviation Cadet, Naval Resen-e Aviation Base, Dallas, Texas. Foskett. Clifford R.. '41, 1st Lt . U.S. Army, 
Coast Artillery, Fort Eustis, Va. Fountain, Robert L.. '42, 2nd Lt , U.S. Army. Cb. 
G, 1st Bn., 393rd Inf., Camp Van Dorn, Miss. Fox Francis R., '42, In Sen-ice. Franklin. John E.. '28, Capt, U.S. Army Medical 
Corps, Eglin Field, Fla. Funk, Albert P., Jr., '40, U.S. Army. 
Gadek. William V., '31, Lt, U.S. Army Air Corps. Gaither, John F., '41, L t (j.g.). U.S.N.R., 3051 Idaho Ave.. N.W., Apt 405, Washington. D. O. GallaglKr. Charles H.. '38. Pfc, U.S. Army, 376 
B. Sqdn.. 309 B. Group, Columbia Army Air Base, S. C. Gannon, Henry T., '34, U.S.NJS., c/o Postmaster, 
New York City. Garrigan, Matthew P.. '31. U.S. Army. Gilbert. John W., '42, In Service. Gilfoyle, Richard B.. '24, U.S. Naval Aviation 
Corps. Boston Naval Recruiting Station, Bos­
ton, Mass. Glttchowski, Andrew B.. e-x. '43, U.S. Army. Gonner, James A., '41, 2nd Lt, U.S. Army. Gorman, Joseph R., '40, Pvt.. U.S. Army, Hdqs. 
Co., 1303 RD S.U., Camp Lee, Va. 
Grady. Thomas H.. '36, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School. Room 507, Abbott Hall, Chicago, 111. Gray, Robert J., '42, Ensign, U.S.N.R., Supervisor 
of Shipbuilding, 1100 Chester St., Cleveland, O. Grisanti, Alfred C. '31, U.S. Army. Gwinn, Samuel W.. Jr.. '41, Pvt.. U.S. Army, Cb. 
B. 315th Inf., A.P.O. 79, Camp Blanding, Fla. 
Habecker. Edward E., '40, Ensign, U.SJ;.R., Naval Air. Training Center, Corpus Christi, Texas. Habig, Francis J., '39, 2nd Lt, U.S. Marine Corps 
Reserve, U.S. Naval Air Field, Jacksonville, Fla. Habing. WUfred B.. '41. Pvt, U.S. Army. Haller. George D., '19. 1st Lt, U.SJI.C.R., Train­
ing Sqdn. 5, Marine Aviation Detachment, Naval Ait Station, Jacksonville. Fla. Hand. Francis J.. '40, Lt, U.SJI.R., U.S. Naval Hospital. Newport, R. I 
Harbecke. Cyril, ex. '23, Capt, U.S. Army, San Francisco Fort of Embarkation, Fort Mason, Calif. 
Harrison. William H.. LL.D. '39. Brig. Gen., 
U.S. Army, S.O.S. Hdq., Services of Supply, Director of Procurement, 4E616 Pentagon BIdg., Arlington, Va. Hart. Joseph F.. '40, Prt., U.S. Army, Co. H, 8th Q.M. Trng. Regt, BIdg. T671, Camp Lee, Va. Harvey, Edmund E., '41, Ensign, U.S.N.R.. c/o Fleet Postmaster. New York City. Hayes. Francis J.. '39, Lt, U.S. Army, Go. A. 319th Inf., Reg., A.P.O. 80, Camp Forrest. Tenn. Healy. Joseph J., e-x. '15, Capt, U.S. Army Signal Corps, O.T.S., Lexington Signal Depot Lexing­ton, Ky. Hebenstreit. Bruce A.. '42, 2nd Lt, U.S. Marine Corps, 15th R.O.C., Co. B, Bks. B, Quantico. Va. 
Henely, Richard P.. e.^. '43,. 92C, U.SJf.R.. 3r£ Bn., Co. 1781, U.S. Naval Training Center. Great Lakes, III. 
Higitaa, WBaid J.. '33. Pv t U.S. Araqr. Co. B. 
774 TJ>. Bn, Camp Hood. Texaz. HiM*b Mkkad U . '42. Znd Lt . U.S. Karine Cotp*. Hacaa. Fraierick J,, ex. '38. Sgt, VJ3. Anny. Haffnaa Jalm N.. Jr, '30. Pvt. U.S. Army. Co. 
C. Ilth Med. lYng. Bn., Camp Pickett. Va Habiid, naaaa V,. 'IT. Capt, U.S. Army Air Corps. Williams Field. Chandler. Ariz. 
Haltaa. Artlnr P. F.. '28, Lt, ir.SJrJC. Asa't Naval Attache. U.S. Embassy. Quito. Ecuador. 
S. A. HannU. AMtkaiar A , ex. '41, U.S. Army Canfi­date Cadet Class 9. Barkeley. Texas. 
HiachaTcc. Jaatpk L,, '42. U.S. Army Air Force. 4th Air Force Replacement Depot. Barradra IM. Sq. A. Hammer Field. Fresnft Cklif. 
Haiaktag. Fnuds tU, 'SI. A/O. AJLF.C.C., Sqdn. 105, Flight A. San Antonio. Texas. UmmHunra. Hidwl P.. '42. U.a Army Air 
Corps. Harfcy. Jsha J,. '33. 2nd Lt . U.S. Army. Infantry. Hyde. David F., '40. Pvt. tr.S. Army. Co. B. 79« 
M.P. Bn, Camp Blanding, Fla. 
Jaaws. Jaha J.. Jr.. '24, Pv t QJI-C, Co. M. 1st QJLTJt.. BMg. 285. Fort Francis. E. Warren. Wyo. 
JaadsG. Nanaaa F.. '39. FYc... U.S. Army. 351st Inf, 88th Div, Hdqs.. 1st Bn. A.P.O. 88. Camp Gmber. Okla. 
Kaaffaua. Thaiaas J , '42. Pvt. U.S. Army. 3C1 Regt., 1st Bn.. Cb. D. Camp White. Ore. Kavaaaagh, WUBaa D,. '27. Capt, C.W.S., 1109 National Press BIdg, Washington. D. C. Kcefe. Daaid E , '39. Pf c U.S. Army. AJP.O. 
960. e/o Postmaster. San Francisco. Calif. Kelley. Giks A , '41. In Service. KeDey. Jaha T.. '42. U.S. Army Signal Corps. 
Janesville. Wis. 
KeOy. Daaid B , '39. U.S. Naval Aviation Flii^t Training, University of North Carolina. Chapd Hill, N. C. 
Kennedy. Lester J.. '24, Capt, U.S. Army. Hq. 
E.U.T.C, E.O.PJS.. Camp Claiborne. La. Keogan. Daniel J , ex. '34. In Service. Kiiiadek. Jaaeph V., '33. Sgt. U.S. Army Air 
Corps. Atlantic City. N. J. Kastt, Jaaeph W.. '42, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, 712 Abbott Ball, Chicago, lU. Kakeage. Vrtaa L,. '41. Seaman, U.S. Navy. Kspahever. Edward D , ex. '43. U.S. Navy. Cadet Regt. B. 705. U.S. Naval Athletic Dq>t. Jade-. sonville. Fla. Kreis, DsaaU VU. '29. L t (j.g.). U.S.N.B. Kiaepaer. Paal E , ex.. '42. U.SJ{.T.S.. Division 
B. Bloomington. Ind. Kaharich. Aathaay S, '35. Fvt. U.S. Army. Camp Perry. O. • Laiber. Jaaeph J , '42. Pvt.. U.S. Army. Co. G, 117th Inf, Fort Benning. Ga. Laskawaki. Jeiam* S , ex. '41. Tedi. Corp.. U.S. Army.' Lawicace. Hany W„ '29. U.S. Army. Fort Frau­ds B. Warren. Wyo. Lealaci^ Mattiww A^ ex. '34, U.S. Army. 
Lewis. Jaha E.. '42. Y20. U.aNJC. U.S. Navy Reeruiting Station. U.S. Court House. Nashville. Tenn. 
Lachcr, Paal K.. '38. Y3C U.SJUt , Beemiting OiSce, 5 W. — 63rd St, New York City. Lachcr. Rabcrt C ex. '34. Capt, M.C, U.8.' 
Army. Laiwy. Fraada IL, '31, Pvt. U.S. Army. Lyach. JasKS K, '40, U.S. Army. 316 Base Hq, 
A.B. Sqn, Fort George Wright. Wash. Lytk, Chalks P.. '28. U.S. Army. Fort Belvoir. Va. MacCarry, Nad J,. '41. Pvt. U.S. Army Air 
Corps. Bks. E43. 314th Base Hdqs.. Army Air Rase. Drew Field. Fla. 
HacDoniU, Donald F., '31, U.S. Army. HaSci, Andrew R.. '35, U.S. Army, Fort Eustis, 
Va. Macs, Bernard A.. '41, Ensien, U.S.N.R. Macwre. James H., '26, Pvt.. U.S. Army, 3rd 

School Sqdn., Trag- Det, San Francisco Air­drome, Alameda, Calif. Haher, Charles E., '35, Lt. (j.e.). U.S.N.R., Civil Engineering Corps. Halloy. John G„ '35, Pvt, U.S. Army, Area F, T-162. 1610th E.R.C., Camp Grant, III. McCabc. Joseph A., '35, Lt. (j.B.), U.S.N.K., 
Washington, D. C. McCIain. Francis H.. '32, 1st Lt., U.S. Army. McCormick. Bernard P., '36, Lt., U.S. Army, Offi­
cers Trainine School, Camp Lee, Va. McDonald. R. H., ex. '24, Quarters 46, Fort Fran­cis E. Warren, Wyo. McDonacfa, Harry F., '39, U.S. Naval Air Train-ins Center, Corpus Christi, Texas. 
McDonnell, Hoiace J., '42, U.S.NJL Midshipmen's School, Columbia University, New York City. McDowell, David L., '41. Pvt, U.S. Army, 365th 
Tech. Sch. Sq., Bks. F-16, B.T.C., Fresno, Calif. HcFadden, James P., '42, U.S. Coast Guard, Green Bay. Wis. HcFarland. Robert E.. '42, Ensign, U.S.N-R., Of­
ficers Club, Annapolis, Md. McGlone, Bernard G., '31, Fvt, U.S. Army. HcKeever, Francis E., '30, Pfc, U.S. Army Air 
Corps, 85th Bomb Group, Blythe Army Air Base, Blythe, Calif. 

McMahon. Charles lu, ex. '42, 2nd Lt, U.S. Army Air Corps, Air Force Advanced Flying School Training, Luke Reld, Phoenix, Ariz. 
McManmon, John V.. '28, L t (s.g.), U.S.N.R., Corpus Christi, Texas. McNeill. Charles E., '42. Ensign, U.S.N.R., New­
port; E, L Mecin. Bernard E.. '37. Ensign, U.SJ^.11. Mcskill, David T., '39, Ensign, U.S.N.R., Naval 
Supply Corps School, Harvard University, Bos­ton, Mass. Miller, Calliz E., '21, L t (s.g.), U.S.N.R., Ass't 
Civil Engineer, NorfoUc, Va. MiOer, Jahn A , ex. '43, U,S.N.R., V-5. Minder. Walter J., '42, Pvt, U.S. Army, 733rd 
T.S.S. (Sp.). Section 12, Platoon 3, Sqdn. 4, Fort Logan. Colo. Mdz, Charles O., '24, L t (s.g.), U.SJsT.R., Naval Air Station, Quonset Point, R. L Moare, Laurence A., '29, VP(F)2C, Naval Air Station, Anaeostia. D. C. Monan, Jahn B., '40, U.S. Navy, cjo Fleet Post 
Office, San IVaneiseo, Calif. Moiitz, William B.. ex. '35. U.S. Army. Flight 
D. Barradn 936. 654 T.S.S.. Sioux Falls, S. Dak. Mdwm , Ftanda A., '38. Ensign. U.S.N.R.. cjo 
Postmaster, New York City. Hidkn, Jahn L, '34, In Service. Mmrphy, James C '31. Pvt. U.S. Army. Mao'v. Jahn lu. '35, In Service. Kaiphr. Jaha R , ex. '41. U.S. Army Air Forces 
Itag. Center, Moore Field, Texas. Muvhr. Jahn W„ '41, in Service. Manay, Say E., '42, lEnsign, U.S.N.R., D-32 
Morris HalL Soldiers field Station, Boston, Mass. 

NacH VlBcent A^ ex. '17. PVt, U.S. Army Air Corps, Flight B, 355th T.S.S.. Army Air Forces Basic IVng. Oenter. Jefferson Barracks. Mo. 
Hkkal. Babert W„ 'ST, S/Sgt. U.S. Army. A.P.O. 37, e|o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. Nicra^ Jaaeph F., '39. U.S. Army. Co. B, 1st Bn.. 
Camp Ritchie, Md. NaUn. Katert J.. '40. Ensign. U.SJC.R. Kartan, Jaaeph C '35, Lt . U.S. Army, A.P.O. 
3310, e^'o Postmaster, New York City. 

Nswidd. Sebastian J., '42, U.S. Navy, Tbyttai Instructor, Adv. N.T. School. B.8. South Bieb­mond, Va, 
O'Brien, George F., '35, Ensign, U.S.N.B.. Section Base, U.S. Naval Training Station, Gulfport, Miss. 
O'Brien, James J., '42, In Service. O'Brien. John J., ex. '31, Capt, U.S. Army Medi­cal Corps. Carlisle Barracks, Fa. O'Connor, Charles J., '33, Pvt, U.S. Army, 18th 
Station, McCIellan Keld, Calif. O'Connor, John C, '39, In Service. O'Connor. Paal A., '31. Lt , U.S.N.R., Medical 
Corps, Box 11, Submarine Operating Base, New 

London, Conn. O'Donnell. Charles E.. '24, In Service. O'Dowd. Francis E., '42. Ensign, U.S.N.R., c/o 
Fleet Post Office, New York City. O'Hara, Henry F.. ex. '34, 2nd Lt, U.S. Army. O'Halley. John G., '36, Pvt, U.S. Army, A.P.O. 
957, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. O'Meara, Alfred M., Jr., ex. '40, U.S.NJI., V-7. Owens, Richard K., '42, Pvt, U.S. Army. 1570th 
Service Unit. Hq. Section, Camp Breckinridge. Ky. Padon. William B.. '42. Pvt, U.S. Army. 474 School Squadron. E.A.F.S., Enid, Okla. Parks. Francis R.. '39, U.S. Army, 31st Tech. Sch. Sqdn., Flight C, Jefferson Barraclcs, Mo. Patterson. Charles J., e-x. '44. U.SJI.R, V-5, U.S. Navy Pre-FIight School, Athens, Ga. Pavlick. John F.. Jr.. '34. Y3C, U.S.N.R. Pa>'ne, Francis M., '39, Ensign, U.SJJJJ. 
Perkins, Joseph C . '40, Pvt., U.S. Army, Hq. t Hq. Co., Reception Center, Classification Section, Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. 
PMUips. John B., '37. 1st Lt.. U.S. Army Medical Corps, A.P.O. 871, cyo Postmaster. New York City. 
Piedmont, William L.. '39, Sp(W)2C, Area B, Barracks B-18, U.S. Naval Training Station, Sampson, N. Y. 
Picrcecchi, Robert J.. '39. S/Sgt. U.S. Army, Fi­
nance Dept, Eglin Field, Fla. Pittman, Francis S.. Jr.. '39, In Service. Porcoro, John E.. '35. In Service. Powell. Hariey H., ex. '40, Lt, In Service. Preece, John D., '30. Capt, U.S. Army, AJV.F.T.­
T.C., S t Petersburg, Fla. Probst, I. Irwin. '26. Lt. 2nd Transportation Zone. 17 Battery Place, New York City. 
Qninn, Donald J., ex. '36, In Service. 
Ransch, Carl J., '39.U.S. Army, Officers Candidate 
School, 20th Co., 3rd S.T.R., Fort Benning, Ga. Reardon, John J., '42, In Service. Reed. Samael R., '36. Ensign. U.SJ^-R. Reilly. Loais J.. '40. Ensign. U.S-N.K.. U.S.O.­
N.C.C.S. Club. Starke Fla. Richards, Thomas T., ex. '43. Naval Air Station. Corpus Christi. Texas. RichUrsicv Stephen R., ex. '29, Capt, U.S. Army, 
19 Heilwood, Clearwater Beach, Fla. Romweher, William A., ex. '34, Pvt, U.S. Army. Rowan, Edward J., '35, Ensign, U.SJI.R., Naval 
Training Station, Stoughton Hall—SI, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. Sabo, Rosaell C, ex. '33, Sgt, Stuttgart Air Field, 
Ark. Sackfey, Donald J., '40, In Service. Sandnsky. Arthar A., '36, Pvt, U.S. Army Air 

Corps, Stout Field, Indianapolis, Ind. Santopietn, Paal R , '41, Corp., Lowry Held. 
Denver. Colo. Sayia, Rahert F., '40. 1st Lt. U.S. Army. Schaller, William J.. '41. U.S. Navy Pre-FIi^t 
School. Battery 12. Co. L, Platoon I. Room 34C. Iowa City. Iowa. Sdieele, Bidkard E., ex. '43. U.S. Army. 
Schemawr. John K., '38. Ensign, n.SJ«.R., U.S. Naval Training School, Matthew N-27, Har­vard University, Cambridge, Mass. 
StUacter, Francis E., '35, Lt , Medical Corps, 
U.S. Naval Reserve Aviation Base. Hatboro. Pa. Schmibc Albert J.. '39, Co. A, Section A. U.SJ4.­T.9., RyM, University of Chicago, Chicago, III. Sdwrsch, Rahert S., '39, U.S. Army, 7th Co., 2nd 
S.TJI., Fort Benning, Ga. Scfcriner, Thomas J., '39. Lt.. U.S. Army. Seccaicceia, James F.. '32. Lt . U.S.N.R. Shay. Gearge D., '30. L t (i.g.). U.SJ^.R.. U.S. 
Navy Pre-FIight School. Athens, Ga. Shea, William S., '37. Corp.. U.S. Army. Btry. F. 245 C-A., Fort Hancock. N. J. Shcedy. Korean F., '22, Air Force Technical 
School, University of Wisconsin. Madison, Wis. Sheridan, Thomas W., '26, Lt, U.S.N.R. Shields. Rahert E.. '27, U.S. Army. Shoavlin, Daniel R.. Jr., '42,- Ensign, U.SJ^Ji., 
U.S. Naval Training Station, Harvard Univer­sity, Boston. Mass. Simmans, William C. '41. Cadet. U.SJf.B. Sisk, F^ederidc E., '39, Pvt, U.S. Army, Fort Custer, Mich. Smith. Irvine, ex. '35, U.S. Army. SmiO, Robert G., '42, In Service, Corpus Christi, Texas. Spillane, Joseph J., ex. '28, U.S. Coast Guard. Sperl. Cyprian A., Jr., '28, U.S. Coast Guard. Spssata, Vincent R., '41, 1st Platoon, Co. B, 7th Tmg. Bn., Camp Wheeler, Ga. Staee, Vincent A., '28, In Service. Slack, Dr. James K., '26. L t Com., U.S.N.R. Stapp, Rabert R., '36. U.S. Navy, Flight In-Hlructor. StaOer. Jhidky F., '41. In Service. SaDiraa, Daaid J., '40, U. S. Army. SdUvaa, James H., '40, L t U. S. Army Air OKPS, A-A.P.C.C.. Nashville.Tenn. SaDhraa. Jahn C '31, Lt , U.SJfJJ, The Roose-Catpg^ A.A.F.C.C.. Nashville; Tenn. Saahran. Jahn C, '31. Lt, U.S,N.Pw. The Roose­velt, Jacksonville, Fla. SdUvaa. Jaaeph R., '42, U.S. Army Radio School, Janesville, Wis. 
SdUvaa, Robert E., '40, S/Sgt., U.S. Army Air Corps, 798 T.S.S. (Sp.), Bks. 50, Seymour John­son Held, Toldsboro, N. C. 
Thatcher, Jasaes W.. ex. '39, Co. 1763, U.S. Naval 
Training Station, Great Lakes, III. Thamas, Geoige E.. '37, U.S. Navy. Thompaan. Frauds P., '42, Classification Office —T31. Army Air Base, Salt Lake City, Utah. Tleraan. Lake J.. '37, Lt , U.S. Marine Corps, 
Washington, D. O. Tahin, Charles A., '42, U.SJi.E., V-7. 

Waltei*, Jalian R,.'42, Corp., U.S. Army, 2nd Signal Service Bn., Washington, O. C. Wateraan, Rahert R , '32, Lt . Victory Ordnance Plant. Decatur. lU. 
Whafea JUchard T.. '42, A/C, U.S. Army Air Forces, Valley Forge Military Academy. Wayne. Pa. 
While. Jaha S.. '41. U.S. Army Signal Corps. Wae. DaaaU P.. '33. U. (j.g.), U.S. Naval Train­ing Station. Princeton University. Princeton. 
N.J. 

Vaaag, Tkamas J„ '35. Tech. Corp., Finance Dept., Daniel Field, Augusta, Ga. 
Zachek. Thaddcas P., '39, Ensign, U.S.N.R., 407 Tbiiliff Hall, Dartmouth Cbllege. Hanover, N. H. Zaaa, Ahrahaas, •S9, Pvt, U.S. Army. Co. B. 1st Bn., 1st Platoon, Camp Wheeler Ga. 
» »
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Dorothy Brooks and WilHam J. Kenney, '34, Charleston, W. Va. 
Miss Jeanne Elizabeth Bertrand and Daniel J. Hanralun, '36. St. Albans, N. Y. 
Miss Katherine Ann Bryan and John J. Lecfaner, '37, South Bend. 
Miss Marjorie Ann Morrison and Ensign Frank 
A. Reppenhasren. '39, Buffalo, N. Y. 
Miss Patricia Engle and Sgt. John C. Cole, '40. Miami, Fla. 
Miss Patricia Anne Bannon, and AfC Cecil E. Jordan, *40, Iowa City, Ta. 
Miss Audrey Joyce Hi^pens and Thomas J. Kelly, ex. '40, South Bend. 
Miss Ellen Elizabeth Murray and Lieut. Charles B' McCanna, tr.S.A., '40, Burlin^on, Wis. 
Miss Margaret Nunn and Richard E. Ball. '41, Buffalo, N. Y. 
Miss Ellinor Weislajrel and A/C J. Howard Essick, '41, Greenville, Miss. 
Miss Mary Rita Moran and J. Maxwell Hill, Jr., '41, Charleston, "W. Va. 
Mlas Vincinia Elizabeth Dierks and Daniel E. • McCarthy, '41. St. James. L.T., N. Y. 
Miss Inez Hoagland Marley and Richard A. Dunne, ex. '42, Convent Station. N. J. 
Miss Geraldine Elizabeth Ryan and Cadet James 
M. Pnrcell, Army Air Corps, ex. '43, Ijarchmont. 
N. Y. 
Miss Virginia Elizabeth Hobbs and Edwin F. Bolfs, Jr., ex. '44. South Bend. 
Marriages 
The marriage of Miss Ethel Melvin and Benja­min L. Berve, ex. '10, took place on Dec. 5, in Chicago. 
Miss Kathleen Knight and Lt. (j.g) Paul F. McHanoB, '34. were married on Oct. 20 in Wal­tham, Mass. 
Miss Ellen Grace Shay and JcAn Leo Murphy, '35, were married on Aug. 13, in Binghamton, 
N. Y. 
The marriage of Miss Jane Morse and Ensign Daniel T. O'Brien, '36, took place on Nov. 19, in Cleveland. 
Miss Angeiira Barrios Lee and Ensign William J, Sharpe, Jr., '37, were married on Nov. 30, in New York City. R. Marshall Chnstensen. *35, was best man. 
The marriage of Miss Rita Veronica Kirk and Robert J. Thomas, '37, took place on Dec. 26. in Coytesville, N. J. 
Miss Betty Lee White and Ensign Kenna Joseph Heatherman, '37. were married on Dec. 27. 
Miss Elizabeth Steward Zimmerman and Jalui 
R. Zerhst, '38, were married in Frederick, Hd., on Jan. 31. Harold A. Williams. '38, was best man. 
Miss Mary Elizabeth Looram and Major James 
F. Berry, Army Air Forces, ex. *3S. were married on Jan. 9. in New York. 
The marriage of Miss Virginia Mary Caldbeck and Sgt. Frederick J. Hoxan, Jr., ex. *38, took place on Nov. 14, in Brookline, Mass. 
Miss Maria Isabel Elena Bums and Lt. EmMett 
P. Barton, *39, were married on Dec 10. in Den­ver, Colo. Mrs. Barton is the daughter of Thomas 
D. Burns, ex. '98. 
Miss Ruth Suzanne Clowes and Robert V. Chamberlain. '40, were married on Nov. 4 in Pitts­burgh. 
The marriage of Miss Naomi Kimball and Vincent 
J. Giesler, '40, took place on Dec 5, in Chicago. 
The marriage of Miss Anne Teeguarden and Marcel A. Polz, '41, took place on Nov. 28, in South Bend. 
Miss Alice Heatherson and Ensign Joseph J. Miller. *4I, were married on Jan.^ 30, in South Bend. 
Miss Bernice Swint and Francis J. Sheets, Ml, were married on Jan. 2. in Charleston. W. Va. 
The marriage of Miss Catherine Ann Schock and Ensign James R. Unny. *41, took place on Dec. 12, in Pensacola, Fla. 
The marriage of Miss Mary Ttemey and Ensign James J. O'Neal, '42, took place on Dec IT, in St. Louis, Mo. 
Miss Phyllis O'Connor and Ensign Arth«r W. Pope. *42, were married on Dec 26. in Chicaso. 
Miss Helen Teresa Trolan and Ensign Thoaus 
E. Reilly, Jr., ex. '42, were married on Jan. 9, in Belle Harbor, Queens, N, Y. 
The marriage of Miss Maude Jeannette Ward and 2nd Lt. George Bartnska. ex. '43, took place on Nov. 1, in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Ruth Fae liOseke and Thomas J. Brock, '43, took place on Jan. 9, in South Bend.* . ,„ •' • 
Miss Mary Katherine Miles and Georse E. Bfar­phy, '43, were married on Jan. 2. in South Bend. 
Miss Marjorie Eileen Stock and Biciuird B* Pohl. '43, were married Dec 26. 
Miss Hazel Bernice Keener and Francis H. Sosnoski, ex. '43, were married on Nov. 26, in South Bend. 
DICK CABBOU, '37. MISSING 

LieuL Bichoid J. Canoll. '37, Cbicago. a pursuit pilot in the Aimr Air Coipa, has. since Dee. 30. been missing in ac­tion in Northwest Africa, according to a telegram receired by his porenis bom the War Department in late January. 
Birihs 
Mr. and Mrs. DsaaU J. Eadcy. '21, annouDee the birth of a son, James Hoagland, on Jan. 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. Artinr J. Diediidi, '23, annonnee the birth of a son. on Dec 26, in South Bend. 
A daughter, Mary Carol, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Jahn B. Barr, '24, on Dec. 22. in Pittsborzh. 
Mr. and Mrs. A>4rew J. Bojie. '28, are «h« parents of Kathleen, bom Jan. 25 in Sooth Bend. 
A son, Michael Anthony, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Jefcn E. Neweiy. '30, on July 17, in Shreve­port. La. 
Mr. and Mrs. Gcoise T. Weber, ex. '30. an­nounce the birth of a son. Mark Roche, on Nor. 24, in OIney, HI. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Leo. K. Caek. '31, on Jan. 6, in New Orleans. 
Mr. and Mrs. Alkert G. Waters. Jr.. '32. an­nounce the birth of a daughter. Mary, on Oct. 2». in Flainfield. N. J. 
A son, John Conrad, was horn to Mr. and Mrs. WilUaa N. ABsatatser. ex. '33. on Sept. 30. in Gary, Ind. 
Mr. and Mrs. Gcotse H. Rciliy. '33,. announce the birth of a daughter, Mary Jane, in November. 
Mr. and Mrs. Aasu t B. vonBaeddin. '34. an­nounce the birth of a son, in June. 
A son, Michael Morgan, in , was bom to Ensign and Mrs. Hickael M. Skeedy. Jr., '35. on Nor. 24. in Buffalo. N. Y. 
Mr. and Mrs. Arthar F. Haber, '36, announce the birth of a son, Joseph Henry, on Nov. 20, in Norwood, O. 
A daughter. Molly, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Hash E. Walt Jr.. on Dee. 4, in Dayton, O. 
Mr. and Mrs. Pari Foley. '37, Grosse Pointc, Mich., announce the birth of a daughter, Susan Mary, on Nov. 25. 
A son, Laurence Joseph, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Ardi F. Gatt, '37, on Jan. 7. in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. Eagcne J. Ely. '38. announce the birth of a daughter, Karen Margaret, on Nov. 23. in Wichita. Kans. 
A son. Charles Ihomas. was bom on Dec 7 to Mr. and Mrs. Charka P. Terry, '38, Findlay, O. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frands K. PfalT, '39, announce the birth of a son, Francis W., on Dec. 23, in Bo­sclle, N. J. 
A son, William Vincent, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Grarse B. Meeker. '40, Westwood, Calif., on Oct. 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jeka F. Devlin. '42, announce the birth of a datighter, Mary Frances, on Dec 23. in IVilsa. OUa. 
A daughter vras bom to Mr. and Mrs. Peter Mark*, ex. '42, on Nov. 19, in South Bend. 
34  The  Notre  Dame  Alumnus  
FOR GOD. COUNTRY. NOTRE DAME  Deaths  
IN GLORY EVERLASTING  Daaid Patrick Murphy, A.B. '9S, LL.B. '96. LLJi. *97, Bemardsville. N. J., president of the  

Charles F. Bebeau, ex. '43, Muskegon, Mich., a naval aviation cadet, was fatal­ly injured in an airplane crash at Cor­pus Christi, Texas. Bom in Iron River, Mich., Charlie was graduated from St. Jean High school, Muskegon, as vale­dictorian of his class and was in his jun­ior year in engineer­ing at Notre Dame when he enlisted in the Naval Reserves 
Choiles F. Bebeau in January, 1942. 

Called to active duty on June 17, 1942, he received his preliminary flight training at Glenview, 111. and was re­ceiving his advanced training at Corpus Christi when he was injured. He would have been commissioned an ensign with­in three weeks. Surviving are his par­ents and his grandfather. Burial was in Muskegon. 
Matthew A. Byrne, Jr., '42, one of the most able, most active and most popular Notre Dame students of recent years, was killed on Dec. 19 when his plane crashed five miles south of Lee Field, auxiliary to the Naval Air Station at Jacksonville, Fla. Matty was in the Naval Ai r Corps, . having entered on June 2 for prelimin­ary training at 
Matthew A. Byrne 
Glenview, 111. He was sent to Jacksonville on Sept. 2 for advanced training and then, at his re­quest, assigned to Lee Field for special additional training in connection with the operation of carrier based planes. He would have been commissioned about Feb. 1. 
President of the Metropolitan Club in his senior year, Matty was secretary of his junior class as well as associate edi­tor of the 1941 Dome and quarterback on the Dillon Hall and Walsh Hall cham­pionship interhall football teams in 1940 and 1941 respectively. He took Civilian Pilot Training at Notre Dame and re­ceived his pilot's license before he was graduated from the University, ma^na cum laude, last May. 
Surviving Matty are his parents, a brother, Thomas J. Byrne, S.J., of Can­isius High school, Buffalo, N. Y., and a sister, Mrs. Mary Ellen Golden. 
First Lieut. Hershel G. Horton, ex.'43, 29 years old, serving with the Army in the Southwest Pacific, was killed in ac­tion on Dec. 2. Only recently he had been cited by General Douglas Mac­Arthur for "nerve and endurance in risky missions involving the leading of ration parties to outlying American forces in the jungles of New Guinea." 
Hershel was the son of Mr. and Mrs. George A. Horton of Aurora, 111., but he had worked and resided in South Bend for some years. He was employed by the Roach - Appleton Manufacturing Com­pany and was a member of the Indiana National Guard. He was called into ac­tive Army service in April, 1941, later attending the Officers' Candidate School at Fort Benning, Ga. He saw duty in Australia before he was transferred to New Guinea. 
Second Lieut. John W. Weichman, eX. 

'43, Covington, Ky., in the aviation ser­vice of the United States Marines, was lost at sea on Dec. 13. Only a few days before his death; Jack talked with his parents, telling them that he would be leaving his base at San Diego in three or four days. His last letter to his fam­ily said he expected to be made a first 
lieutenant within a week and that he would soon be given active duty. 
lieutenant John W. Wiechman 

One of a group of 47 students sworn into naval service as 'The Fighting Irish squadron," he with the others was hon­ored during the half-time ceremonies of the Southern-California Notre Dame football game in 1941. Trained in the Naval Air Corps, Jack was selected for air service with the Marines because of his exceptional ability. 
Capt. Thomas J. Webster, '40, USMC. died after being wounded in Guadal­canal, and Naval Aviation Cadet John J. Whelan, ex. '43, (magician) died after a training crash at Corpus Christi, Tex. Details later. 
Alumni Association in 1911-12, generous benefac­
tor of the first endowment 
Idrive. and long one of the 
Igreat alumni personalities 
jof Notre Dame, died Dec. 
[20 in New York. 
Ill health had kept Dan 
'; Murphy from active par­
|ticipation in alumni affairs 
recent years.. But at 
the peak of success in his 
legal career he was also 
! 
regular and anticipated 
I attendant at campus re­
unions and club events-
Dan Marphjr Dan is survived by his 
wife, Mrs. Elizabeth Mur­
phy, whom he married in the fall of 1925 fol­
lowing his class reunion in June. Mrs. Murphy 
writes: "He had a charity of mind and heart that 
surpassed anything I have ever known. He loved 
Notre Dame more than life itself. That was his 
only interest during his last illness. He looked 
forward to the football broadcasts and to receiv­
ing the 'Alumnus' always. . . ." 
Dan Murphy was a leader as a student. He was manager of the football and baseball teams of Notre Dame. He was instrumental in briniring Frank Hering to Notre Dame and entered a busi­ness partnership with Mr. Hering in South Bend. Going to Chicago after receiving his graduate de­grees, Dan made an early success of a case in­volving the 4-One Box Machine Makers, of New Jersey and became an attorney for that firm, later general counsel. 
When the first campaign for a greater Notre 

Dame was launched in 1922-3, Dan Murphy re­membered the opportunities which Notre Dame had afforded him. His gift of $25,000 to that fund ^ was one of the most generous that came from an alumnus, and lent a tremendous impetus to the success of the entire campaign. Dan Murphy was a Notre Dame man who commands the prayers of 
all others. 
Pedro A. de Landero, '11, of MCNICO City, Mex­
ico, the notable and beloved Notre Dame professor 
of Spanish a t Notre Dame from 1925 until 1939, 
died on Jan. 7 in Mexico 
City. He was the father of 
Carlos, '36, and Telmo, '37. 
who. with Mrs. de Landero, 
survive. 

Activities almost innum­erable, cultural, social and athletic, engaged Professor de Lardero's interests while he taught on the campus ­through 14 years. He or­ganized fencing on an in­tercollegiate basis in 1934, became the first fencing coach and had undefeated teams in the next two years and exceptionally successful teams in the Pedro de Landero following years. The impetus he gave to Notre Dame fencing has carried it through to similar success under the present coach. Prof. Walter 
M . Langford, '30, Professor de Landero was also coach of tennis, as is Professor Langford. In his earlier days, the former was saber champion of Mexico. 
Professor de Landero was twice president of the Notre Dame Faculty Club and was instru­mental in organizing the Ladies of Notre Dame, a social group composed of the wives of lay fac­ulty members. He was likewise a prime mover in 
orfranizing  the  Spanish  Club on  the  campus  and  
was  a  leading  figure  in  many  cultural  activities  
in South Bend.  

Following his graduation from the University as a civil engineer in 1911, as a classmate of his good friend. Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., D.D., former president of the University, Professor de Landero returned to Mexico and. until 1926. was engaged there in outstanding engineering work of many kinds, much of it governmental in nature. He wrote widely on engineering subjects and literary subjects. 
Subsequent political upheavals in Mexico made necessary his returning to the University with his family in 1926 to take a teaching post. Failing health forced his retirement from teaching in 1939, and he returned to his former home in Mex­ico. There he had been much troubled by his eyes and had undergone several operations in attempts to improve his vision. 
Miss Margaret Long, clerk of the United States District Court of Northern Indiana was probably the last person from the South Bend area who saw Professor de Landero. She visited with him and his wife in Mexico City last October. In a letter recently to Father John Cavanaugh. vice-president of the University, Miss Long said: 
"He asked many questions about South Bend and the University. He knew of the establishment of the Naval Training Station there, but only in a minor way, so I was able to picture it for him a little more clearly, 
"His chief regret was that he had been unable to see the picture 'Knute Rockne—^All American*, although it had been shown in Mexico City. He was totally blind at the time it was sho\vn. and said doubtless by the time he regained his sight the picture would be too old to run again. I told him all about the gala premiere and he was keen­ly Interested. 
"He had a good short-wave radio and listened to all the football games. I visited them on Mon­day following the Wisconsin-Notre Dame game, and he was still grieving over the tie! The World's Series had just begun that week also, and he was preparing to listen every afternoon. His radio had practically brought the world to him. He had saved all of the Notre Dame publications which he had received regularly, and said he was going to read them all as soon as he regained his sight. 
"His greatest hope seemed to be that sometime, when his sight was restored, they could return to South Bend for a visit with their old friends. 
"He asked me to be sure and convey his kindest regards to all his old friends. . , ." 
Rev. Leo J. Heiser. C.S.C., A.B. '02. M.S. '17. one of the University priests best known to many generations of students, died in the Community Infirmary on Dec. 7 after an illness of several years. He was buried in the Community Cemetery at Notre Dame on Dec. 10 following solemn requi­em Mass celebrated by his brother. Rev. Alan Heiser. C.S.C., '13, chaplain of the Sisters of Charity convent, Nazareth, Ky. 
Bom in South Bend on June 24, 1881. the late Father Heiser entered Holy Cross Seminary, Notre Dame, at the age of 14 years. He was professed in the Community on Aug. 15, 1904, and was or­dained on Aug. 2. 1906. Assigned to teach chem­istry, he worked under the late famous Rev. Julius 
A. Nieuwiand, C.S.C.. and was a professor from 1908 to 1916 at Columbia College, now the Uni-. versity of Portland, Portland, Ore. Later he 
- taught at St. E^lward's College, Austin, Texas, before returning to Notre Dame, where he became prefect of discipline. Before his retirement, three 
Rev. Leo J. Heiser. A.B. '02, M,S. '17 

years ago, he ser\*ed as chaplain of Reitz Memorial High School, Evansville, Ind. 
Surviving besides Father Alan Heiser are an­other brother and three sisters. 
Mark Bcatus, of Memphis. Tenn.. aged 87, a student at Notre Dame in 1867-68. died on Dec. 
13. He was one of the oldest living former stu­dents of the University. Born in Cincinnati. Mr. Bcatus was in both the clothing and the jewelry business in Memphis. Surviving him are a daugh­ter and two sons. 
Mr. Bcatus, despite his advanced age. had made several trips to the University in recent years to attend Commencement alumni reunions and had proved to be one of the most interesting and in­terested of returning visitors. "When he made the first of these trips he had not seen the University since he was a student very soon after the Civil War. The changes in the school since his student days were, of course, almost unbelievable in his eyes. 
Mr. Beatus \vas one of the most prominent members of the Notre Dame Club of Memphis. 
George W. Myers, a student at Notre Dame in 1884-87, died in Dubuque, la., on Jan. 12. accord­ing to word received from his family by Father Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the Univer­sity. 
Robert L. Fox, *01. 68 years old, Denver, died suddenly from a heart attack on Nov. 4- He was buried in his native Fort Wayne, Ind., where he was a member of a prominent pioneer family. 
Mr. Fox was in business in Fort Wayne until 1917, when, on account of the ill health of his first wife, he moved to Denver, establishing soon afterward the Fox Supply Company there. He be­came widely known in local business circles and social circles and was a member of the Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus. Denver Athletic Club and the Lakewood Country Club. The first Mrs. Fox died in 1924. Two years ago he married the former Helen Cummings of Seattle. Wash., and she, with n daughter by his first wife, sur­vives him. 
Mr. Fox was intensely interested in art and spent much of his leisure time in painting. His home and garden were among the artistic show places of the city and he was among the most enthusiastic sponsors of the Christmas outdoor lisfatioff prosrara in Denver. He was a.priNidBCBt . member of the Notre Dame Club of Denver. 
Kefecrt Bcackcr, London, C , 55 years oU, oam of the greatest baae nmners in major leagne bate ball history, was killed on Nov. 29 when his automobile cnUidcd with a Pennsylvania passenstr train near London. Mr. Besdier was a stndmt at Notre Dame in 1899-01. 
As a member of the Cincinnati Beds in 1911» Mr. Bescber stole 80 bases, a mark that has not since been approached hy any National Leasne base runner. He also played with New ToA and St. Louis in the National League and with Louis­ville in the American Association. 
ClarciMe V. "Pat" Snyder, Chicago, a stodot in the preparatory department at Notre Dame about 30 years ago, died on Nov, 20 while aboard a train en route to Columbus, O., from Chicago, Mr. Snyder was president of Snyder-McMahoa. Inc., of Chicago. He is survived by his wife and three sons. 
Kabert A. MUray. '12, Aurora. IlL, a former member of the Illinois House of Bepresentattves and a former assistant United States district at­torney, died in Aurora on Dec. 19 at the age of 
52. He is survived by his wife, three sons and one daughter. 
Lea A. Sduieider, '28. of Pittsbargji, died on Nov. 29 from a heart attack. Lee was secretary, treasurer and general manager ot the National Fuel Corporation in Pittsburgh, a member of the Knights of Cohuibus and of St. Paul's Retreat House. He was a prc»ninent monber of the Notre Dame Club of Western Ptansylvania and one of the best known men in the class of *2S. 
Surviving Lee are his wife and five children as well as three brothers and cme sister. One of the brothers is Rev. Edwin J. Schneider, H.S. '37. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere ^rmpathy to Judge WiBiam T. FitxgcraU, '23. upon the de»th of his mother: Bbrdimeat H. Sdiwaila, '32, upon the death of his father; Harry A. BaMwte, Jr., *37, upon tbe death of his mother; and Hcuy J. HeiatAcrgcr, H.S. '40, upon the death of his father. 
Personals 
 H. Hayes, fi42 Third Avc^ 

1914 
Frank 
CliaU Vista, CaUf. 

Gas Daraia ended one oS the longest and most successful coadiing tenures in collegiate football recently by resigxung as athletic director and head coach of football at the University of Detroit. He had served in that capacity for 18 years. Gns is now athletic director and head coadi of the Detroit Uons of the National Football League. The best wishes of Notre Dame go with him into his new field. 
Gua* teams at Detroit won 114. lost 49. and tied seven for a percentage of .678. He is a oty councilman in Detroit. 
Dan Shanvlia, now connected with the War Production Board, writes that bis new address is: 4923 Nebraska Ave., N.W., Washington, D. C. Dan sajTS that his son, Boger. '41, is a first lien-tenant in aircraft ordnance and is serving some­where in Africa. Dan. '42, is an ensign and is attending the Navy sdiool at Ibrvard. 
1916 
Grarcr MOcr. (1* Wiaenuta An„ 
•wfaw. Win 

From Grarc HUbr: NatonllT, all the infonution I can Rpoit on membcTS of our dan most come to ne by woid 
of mouth or as in most cases in answer to my letters and postals. I would appreciate if more of the boys -would answer by self-addressed post­cards. We all like to read about our class and our friends and it is little enough remote to this idea to ask that everyone drop me a line frequently and give me the latest news. You need not tell me particularly that you are in the war but that you have a new baby, something about your work, or something • that is important in your life that might make news. 
Joe HcGrath, 135 Farmington Road, Peoria, 111., writes me that he has one wife and one boy. So glad to know that Joe has not gone in for bigamy. He is working as mechanical inspector at defense housing project at Wilmington, 111. 
R. (Dutch) Kelly is in St. Francis Hospital. Peoria, suffering from injuries in a train wreck at Decatur about four months ago. 
Bob Carr, Central Life Building. Ottawa, ill.. bemoans the fact that his contact with classmates is too infrequent. He has been practicing law for 23 years. 
Re\-. E, Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., first lieutenant, chaplain, regretted that he could not be with us last Ma>' at Notre Dame but is looking for^vard to our reunion after the war. He is connected with the Adjutant General's School, Fort Wash­ington, Md. 
John H. Sylvestrc is doing well as a member of the O'Brien and Sylveslre law partnership in Crookston, Minn. 
 J. VoU, 206 E. Tutt St., South 
Bend, Ind. 

1917 B. 
From Bemie Voll: 
A letter from Howard Parker was received on Christmas Eve and it contained very welcome news. 
It was iviitten from the hospital in San Fran­cisco but in it Howard stated that he expected to be in Sacramento (1141 Swanston Drive) with his family for Christmas Day and that he would spend the month of January recuperating and possibly be back on the job by Feb. 1. 
He expressed a deep sense of appreciation for the many letters which he had received from class­mates during his prolonged illness, and I am quite certain he w^ill enjoy some additional ones now that he is convalescing. 
Up to the present writing ye correspondent has not been deluged with answers to a recent letter which was sent to all of the classmates. 
There have been some replies and some govern­ment bonds sent in. Won't you give this matter your immediate attention? 
Harry Baojan, head football coach at the Uni­versity of Dayton, had in 1942 his most successful season in 10 years. Dayton won 8 and lost 2. 
 B. Ward, 1012 Black Bldg., Los 1920 Leo 
Anffeles, Calif. 

Cyril Harbccke, a captain in the Army, is on duty at the port transportation office at Ft. Mason. San Francisco. 
1923 
Paul H. Castner, 137 South Ave., New Canaan, Conn. 
Tom Leahy of Scranton. Pa., has been appointed OPA district manager in that city. Tom was for­merly general manager of the Scranton Better Business Bureau. BUI Haskins, Huntington, LX, 
N. Y., is doing sales and statistical work in New York City at 1 Wall St. 
1924 
J. F. Hayes, 393 7th Ave., Room 1515, New Yorit City. 
Bob Riordan. stationed at Purdue University with the Army, has been promoted from major to lieutenant colonel. 
 P. Hurley, 2085 Brookdale Road. 1925 John 
Toledo, O. 

Harrj- Stnhldreher, head football coach at Wis­consin, rated the "coach of the year" honors in the sports column of Jim Kearns, '34, of the Chi­cago "Sun." Harry, whose Badgers were nosed out by Ohio State for the Big Ten crown, won the nomination over the Buckeyes' Paul Brown in Jim's opinion. Notre Dame men will quickly agree that Harry did a magnificent job and is richly deser\-ing of all praise he has received. 
1927 
Joseph M. Boland, Station WSBT, Soatfa Bend. Ind. 
From Joe Boland: The winter is proving long in Indiana, but the mails still get through. John B. Sullivan was one who took pen in hand to test Mr. Walker's P.O. workers; the similarity in this season between South Bend and Portland, Maine, weather prob­ably had Sully's letter travel by dog-team all the way, we've had that much snow! His address is Union Mutual Life Insurance Co., 189 Federal St., Portland, Me., and he promises to answer faithfully any communications addressed his way. 
Frank Oelhofifcn. as sales manager of the Ban­tam Bearings Corp.. South Bend, has been the coordiator of the many defense orders the company has filled. He was also in charge of arrangements for the Ka\T E award which the company was one of the first in the state to receive. 
Steve Ronay, professor of English at Notre Dame (on leave) and a first lieutenant in the Army Air Corps, is now a ground school instructor in the glider pilot training center at the South Plains army flying school, Lubbock, Texas. 
Bill Carter, probably serving overseas by now with the Air Force, reports he was fortunate enough to get home (New Jersey) for Christmas on a 24-hour pass. 
John Paddcn, of Crookston, Minn., nominated for Congress on the Republican ticket in the • primary, lost the eleciton on Nov. 3 by only 604 votes out of 71,000 votes cast, leading all nomi­nees of his party in the district, a Farmer-Labor stronghold. 
Carl Matthcs is comptroller at the Bendi:; plant in South Bend. 
1928 
Louis F. Buckley, 4481 3IacArthnr Blvd^ Washington, D. C. From Loa Buckley:' 
The bi-monthly schedule of the "Alumnus" is a break in that it cuts down the deadlines hut it has resulted in my having several letters on hand which are a few months old. I trust the corre­spondents will understand the cause of this delay. 
Dave Smith, who was one of our recent writers, passed along two letters which arrived late. One is from Jack Sonnhalter who writes from 118 Union St., Montclair. N. J.: 
"For the past 11 years I have been with the 

W. L. Tyler Company of Cleveland. Architectural designing and delineation is their work—elevator cars, and entrances, store fronts — architectural metal work of all descriptions. At the present time I am on a leave of absence from the firm to do confidential art work (special instruction manuals for airplane pilots and mechanics). Go from city to city. Am in New York now. Next stop to be Buffalo—then California. 
"I have been married ten years and have two swell kids—a girl, 5, and a little fellow only 5 
months. We have our home in South Euclid, 
a suburb of Cleveland." 
Jim Camzaro -wrote from the Capital National 
Bank Building, Jackson. Miss., where he has his 
architect-engineer office. Jim, you have our sym­
pathy on the death of your father. We are also 
sorry to hear of your accident. Jim gives us the 
followins; news: 
"Your letter was received when I was in Vicks­burs: at the bedside of my father. He died on Sept. 10, 1942. and we buried him on Sept. 12. 

"Yes, my office is still going, but I must say I do not know how much longer I can hold out. I just completed the drawings for a Defense Hous­ing Project, and a Shell Factory Building. I made a final inspection of a little church about two weeks ago. I have at present a few repair jobs that should be complete in about 30 days. I have been named on a national committee representing this part of the country, to create a new standard or code for school buildings in cooperation with a committee of educators. .. . On Aug. 11, 1942, I became the father of a baby girl, Jean Louise, making' a boy and a girl. 
. , . While playing golf on May 17, 1941, I was hit over the eye and lost the sight of my left eye. I haven't played golf since. I still work like mad though." 
Several classmates during the past few years have asked for some news from Charlie Shelan­
•kcy. Although Charlie maintains he hasn't suffi­cient news to serve as guest writer. I am sure yon will be glad to read his letter from Box 455, Westhampton Beach, L.I.. N. Y.: 
". . . Although New York City is less than 100 miles from my home, I rarely visit there and thus my nearest Notre Dame Club does not see much of -me. I have been rather close to the grindstone during the last five years and have enjoyed just ten days vacation during that time. 
"My contacts have been limited to the Army games which we attend each year but as far as following: these with correspondence, I must ad­mit that I am one of the despicable class of non­corresirandents. . . . 
"Of course, this does not mean that I wouldn't give a great deal to sx)end just a half-hour with some of the '2Sers. Good old Andy and Swede and Connie and Ed Gleason—Joe Geraghty—Joe De­Bott—Bob Kirby—Larry SUder—Mahon—Wehs and Nolan—and yourself! What a session that would be! Oh boy! Oh boy! 
*'As for myself I have been healthy, happy and steadily employed as principal accountant for the Suffolk County Highway Department. I have been residing on Jjong Island now for 14 years and I guess I have relinquished whatever claims I might have made at one time of being an 'apple-knocker from upstate.' There are thousands of tons of fish within four miles of me (the Atlantic Ocean) but I would gladly -trade them all for a four-pound bass on the end of my line in one of those Finger Lakes near my home town of Geneva. I certainly gave that town one other break besides the one occasioned by my departure and that was when I brought the Glee Club there. Johnnie Bntler sure was in splendid condition that night." 
Charlie has two sons, aged five and seven. Dave Krembs came through with the following from Camp Wheeler, Ga.: 
"At the present I am putting in basic training at an infantry camp in the reconnaissance branch down here in Georgia. Was inducted in Septem­ber, so am in the first part of the cycle, which is a busy one. 
"l^e only fellows I have corresponded with of late is Jflkn Frederick in Muskegon, Mich., and Ray Hock in St. Paul, Minn. 
"I was married on Aug. 25, 1942, to Hiss Alice Hae Dorska of Stevens Point, Wis. She is a teacher of Home Economics in Stevens Point and 
a girl from the old home town. I have been teaching physical education and assisting with coaching at Stevens Point High School for the past nine years. 
"Yes, I did see Jack Thomas of Marshfield. Wis., for a few minutes in Stevens Point last August. Haven't seen Thomas McDongal of Antigo, AVis., or Ridiard "Red" Smith of Green Bay for a couple of years." 
Bob Evans reported from Vickshurg. Miss., where he is in the lumber business, that Dr. Sam Romano and family are still residing in New Orleans, where Sam has a very nice prac­tice. Jim Parker, who has been working in Sche­nectady, N. Y., since his graduation, is in an officers' training school. Bob has been married since June. 1930, and has two children, a boy and a girl. Bob mentioned that Lawrence Hen­nessey, '27. who is in the insurance and real estate business in Vickshurg, suffered the loss of his father on August 24. 
Art Mitigay came through with a letter from Burlington. Vt., where he is treasurer of the Bur­lington Drug Co. Since Art is not located near any of the classmates, he was not in a position to pass along any news other than that about his family, which we are glad to have. He has three children, one an N.D. man and the other two are girls. 
Many thanks to Jack Sonnhalter. Jim Canizaro, Charlie Shelanskey, Dave Krembs, Bob Evans and Art Mitigny for their response to our request for news. I would like to hear from the following for the ne.\t issue: John Antns, 25 W. 43rd St, New York City, Ronald Rich, Notre Dame, Ind.. Lt. Bob Fogerty, A.A.F,, P.F.S., Ellington Field, Texas, and Art Holden, FO. Box 416, Lancaster. Pa. Drop one of them a note right away so they will have some news to pass along. 
Alban Lcyes, *31. who recently came to Wash­ington to join the staff of the Surgeon General, reports that he saw John Ganghan and his family recently in Knoxville, Tenn., where John is with TVA. Dick Wcppner, who is with WPB here in Washington, now has his family here and is living at 810 Boeder Road. Silver Springs, Md. I had a note from Vince Carney at Christmas from Rochelle, 111. Vince is in the wholesale sporting goods business. The name of the com­pany is Kountry Klub Sportswear. Vince is mar­ried and has two children. 
Tom Mahon, a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Naval Air Corps, is stationed at the Naval Air Station. Richmond, Fla. Bob Hamilton, is living in Coco­nut Grove temporarily, and wants to get Notre Dame men in the Florida area better organized. Bob is with Pan American Airways in Miami. 
Jack Lavelle, of New York City, proves versa­tility a virtue. Jack is athletic director of the Catholic Youth Organization, football coach at Power- Memorial School and boasts a notable record as free-lance gridiron scout. A number one scout of the New York Giants, Jack saw in the neighborhood of 25 pro and college games last fall, according to the N. Y. "Daily News." In addition, he is one of the most popular after-dinner speakers in N.Y.C. Most important, from the "Alumnus" viewpoint, he is one of the staunchcst members of the N.D. Club of New York. 
Joe Spillane is now stationed at the Coast Guard Base. Fine View, N- Y. Joe was an attorney in Geneva, N. Y., before entering the service. Bob Grant, congressman from South Bend, recently received the first DeMolay Legion of Honor award in South Bend in recognition of his ser\*ice in Congress. 
1929 
Capt Joseph P. McNamara, 23S E. ISA St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
John P. "Clipper" Smith is director of safety for the Pratt and Whitney Aircraft company in East Hartford, Conn. Bob Brennan, Pittsfield, Mass., is a lieutenant (j.g.) in the naval training school at Princeton University. 
Hogh McManigal, Miami, Fla., is general super­intendent on construction of dual hangars for the Pan American Airlines at Cora! Gables. Fla., a million and a half dollar contract. 
Jim Gallagher, general manager of the team, was recently reelected as a director of the Chi­cago Cubs. 
Ed De!ehanty is a physician at the Norfolk State Hospital, Norfolk, Nebr. 
1930 
Harold E. Duke. 4030 N. Broad St., Philaielphia, Pa. 
(Here is the new '30 secretary, an outstanding and devoted worker for the University generally and for the Philadelphia Club in particular and now, we're sure, for the '30 class as well—Harold Duke, He deserves a hand and a lot of help. Har­old is with The Wayne Pump Company—Eds.) 
To follow a class scribe of the caliber of Lieat. Dick Donoghue is really taking on a tough job, as Dick did an exceptional job of keeping interest alive and furnishing interesting information about the class of '30. However, I'll do my best and if I approach in some small way Dick's success, as well as Bob Hellmng's before him. I'll ask for nothing more. 
News in the form of letters is naturally out for this issue because of my appointment being so recent and the official notice not yet published, so I'll have to pinch hit with hearsay I've picked op here and there. 
I did get a chance to scribble a few notes asking for news and hope to have some returns before this is forwarded. Included among those I wrote were Pat Conway, who is now in the Navy, Bfike Bishko and Dan Sullivan. 
Harry Francis is now a lieutenant stationed in Dayton. O. How about hearing from you, Harry? (Harry: My Francis Motors Dodge is still serving, when I can get gas for it.) 
Leo McAloon finds time to be a civilian defense leader of some prominence. I understand he was quite active last fall officiating football games also. Leo got quite a bit of publicity in Philadel­phia when he ordered a pair of pants for his offi­ciating. Were they ever able to fill the order, Leo? 
Have heard that Jerry Reidy is in the service but I don't know which branch, nor where he is stationed. Would you enlighten us, Jerry? 
Tim Toomey is still holding forth and doing a swell job as secretary for the New York Club. There ought to be a fertile field for news of '30ers in your area, Hm, so I'd appreciate it if you could find time to ^ve us the low down on the New York '30ers for the next issue. 
It is reported that Bob Walsh is a corporal in the Army, stationed at some camp in Florida. 
Joe Apodaca is with the Rubber Reserve Cor­poration, dividing his time between Costa Rica and Panama. 
Ed Franks is doing right well in the tavern business in Joliet. Dish us up some news, Ed. 
S.O.S. to AI Shipacasse for a report on the Cleveland gang and to Tom Medland for an ac­count of the doings and •whereabouts of the archi­tects. 
Of course, this does not preclude any other of you fellows who might get the urge—we welcome and need all we can get. 
Lt. Frank Hand is a physician in the Naval Hospital at Newport. R. I. John A. McCarthy, who for the past several 
years has been associated with Holmes, Ltd., New Orleans, as thnr ace salesman in the men's de­partment, joined np with Uncle Sam some months back. His wife holds down the fort and knits for the armed forces while Jack is doing his stnff as a sergeant major down in the Sooth Fadfic His address: No. 34290380: Hq. Ist BN. 131st. ENGR5 (O): APO no. 502 c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. 
ttS B. Calf ax Art^ Saath 

1931 Ukm Btim. 
From John Bercan; News of the death of li^t . Geerce WasicD, in a plane crash over England came as a great surprise to his many friends i^thin the class. He was its first member to die in World War II. George while on the campus was one of the most likeable fellows in the class. Quiet and unassum­ing he was cme of the highest ranking students in the College of Science and was graduated with honors from the sdiool of medicine of St. Louis University. Before opening his own practice in Sharon. Pa., whence he joined the Air Corps last February, he was plant physician for a steel company in Alton. 111. A Mass for his soul was said on the campus last month. Remember George in your prayers. 
Lt. Jade Shivcly was recently promoted to cai»­tain in the Army Air Forces. Jack is a veteran In the Army as he was called in as second lieutenant in March. 1941. and has been stationed at Randolph field. Texas, Chanote field. 111., and Is now located at Patterson field, Furfield, O. Lt. Jad: Saandera is in the aircraft ferry division at Floyd Bennett field. Brooklyn. N. Y. Lt. Georce "Dinny" Shay, USNR, is at the Georgia Pre-FIight school, Ath­ens. Ga.. Ensicn Lanry Molfer and his wife of last fall are living in St. Louis where Larry is in the SeaBees but expects to be moved to the west coast before long. Lt Joe Haches of the Army Medical Corps has been graduated from the Air Corps medical school at Wright field. Dayton, C , and is awaiting farther orders at some distant air base. John P. Hidwy, who has been a corporal in the Army Air Force, completed his coarse in aeronautics at Miami and has been commissioned a second lieutenant in the ground forces. Fvt. John F. SaOivan of Camp Wheeler. Ga., has qualified for officers training and will attend the officers* school at Fort Benning, Ga. 
AI Calvet was recently inducted into the Army, as was Joe WUfc. Loa BEarger of Sulphur, La., will also be inducted this month. Lou has been supervising construction of a large magnesium plant in Sulphur. 
Art Knobladc is with the Bantam Bearing com­pany in South Bend. Paal Grant and Ed "Spike" SaDivan surprised many of their friends at Christ­mas by sending them copies of the December issue of "Fortune" which so ably described their home tovm of Mattoon, III. Spike, by the way, wishes it known that his first bom is Martin F., and not Bob, Jr.. as was'previously reported. Gas rationing has not made any changes in the Carter Oil company in Mattoon so Sullivan is still with them, while Grant has become one of the super­visors of the Eastern Illinois Gas Company. 
Ward O'Caanor writes from Bayonne, K. J.. that three deferments are keeping him oat of the Army and that he is worldng in that dty. Goidan SalaMn has left Pratt and Whitney's East Hart­ford, Conn., plant for a career in the Navy. Jaha DarsdMl is doing defense work in Rochester after a long career in the finance business. Lt. Ka^ph Daltan has completed his course in the Kaval Training School at Treasure Island, San TTmif Cisco. A letter to Lt. Jae Schtaeder of the Air Corps Dqrat, Rome. N. Y., was returned stating that he had been transferred so. Joe, if yon read this, drop us a line as to your whereabouts. Prt^ Jerty Keidy, the old Cleveland fomiture dealer. 
has completed his course in radio at Scott Field, 111., and will be transferred to an Army Air base soon. 
Albert "Bud" Tuohj* has been made a supervisor in the FBI after a year and a half of ser\*ice in the far west. He is now located in the Depart­ment of Justice Building. Washinjrton, D. C, and is living at 1170 S. TTiomas St., Arlington, Va. Bob Dnffy, formerly of Joliet, III., is an attorney for the Securities Commission. Philadelphia of­fices. L»rry Krai is the new general manager of the Krai Office Supply and Engra\nng company of Cleveland. Joe Gavin has applied for the naval physical fitness program under the direction of lit. Com. Tom Hamilton and should be in the Na\"y by the time you read this note. Lt. Jerrj' Wiecins is in the Army Air Corps and is an in­structor at the Ohio Institute of Aeronautics. Co­lumbus. O.. where mnny of the Air Corps ground troops are trained. 
Sympathy of the class is extended to the family of Gcorce WasscU* and to Clarence Futtcr of Mishawaka on the death of his mother. 
A letter from Dick Connelly follows; 
"This is the second time I have written you and by this time you have probably seen Julian Acers picture in the Nov. 23 issue of *Life' Mag­azine (page 121). He was a member of our class. 1931, but dropped out at the end of his second year. However, he returned in 1932 and spent several years in Law School at Notre Dame. 
"He was at my home in Rahway. N. J., to see me 3% years ago. At that time he was employed by the Cudahy meat packers and had returned from Europe, where he traveled as a salesman for that company. 

"I lost track of him after that and tried to locate him through the Cudahy Company. How­ever, he had left their employ. So you can imag­ine my surprise when I picked up a copy of 'Life' and there he was, as big as life, with the same broad smile, sitting in the cockpit of a plane on Midway Island. He is captain in the Marine Air Corps. 
"In the list of Notre Dame men published In the alumni magazine I have yet to run across his name, so perhaps the editor will want this infor­mation for their 'Men in Ser\'ice' file. 

"After workng nine years on a newspaper in Jersey City ('The Hudson Dispatch') I recently joined the publicity staff of the National Broad­casting Company in Radio City, N. Y. I am mar­ried and have three children. 
"If you can find a minute drop me a line and Bive my regards to Dr. Coone3% in whose class we spent many happy hours." 
Frank X. Kopinski, justice of the peace for Portage township. South Bend, who is now sta­tioned at Camp Breckenridge. Ky., was in South Bend long enough recently to take his oath of •office for his second term as justice. He w-ill soon enter officer training. 
Larry Zell, West Palm Beach. Fla., is a surgeon in the U.S. Public Health ser\'ice in that city. Loa Friedman, Mishawaka. has been named city controller by the recently elected mayor of that 
•city. Joe Brady. 
Ray Smith. Denver, is a seaman, second class, and is stationed at the Naval Trainingf Station, Toledo. O. 
I OO O ^^ J«B^ K. Colltns. 604 Broad Blvd.. I -TO^ Dayton. O. Lt. J. K. CoUliu, USNR. Amphibious Training Base. lattle Creek. Va.—none other than Jim, the sec. writes: 
I heard recently that Bob Law is a staff sar-
This is 2nd laeuL Bemie I^oliy. '32, of the Quortennasfer Corps. 

geant In the Officer Candidate School at Camp Davis, N. C. He has been in the Army since March 3, 1941. 
Sol BonCempo is a captain in the Air Service Command, stationed at Da>'ton. He called at my homa but I missed seeing him when I was at home on Christmas. He has been stationed there since last spring. 
I have been here since Dec. 18—it is the train­ing base of the Atlantic Fleet .\mphibious Force, joint Army and 'Stivy. TTiere are a number of alumni stationed here, among them Ensign Jack Willmann, '40. Ensign Tom Stritcfa. *34. who formerly was on the faculty there, Ensim John Broderick, MO. Jack Jaeger, *33, who is a store­keeper and expects to receive a commission soon. John V. Ryan. *3o, is also here. 
Ensign Frank Reilly. Dorchester, Mass.. is now stationed at the fleet training base on San Clem­ente Island, c/o Postmaster, San Diego. Calif. Jimmy Walder. Cairo, HI., has been promoted to the rank of captain in the Army. He is serving overseas. S/Sgt. Joe Judge. Dixon. III., is with the 1032nd Tech. Sch. Sq. (Sp). Camp Kearns, Utah. 
The South sends word that it's now Llent.-CoL Charles Duncan Jones, who was promoted from a captaincy and is now in ser\'ice overseas. 
Lt. <j.K>) Domiuick Kapolitano. a professor in the Notre* Dame Physical Education • department; is now in the V-5 instructors school at the U.S. Naval Pre-Flight School, Chapel Hill, * N. C. Nappy will }je missed especially ivhen Bengal Bout time rolls around; he directed the instruc­tion and conditioning of the bouters for many years and the huge success of the Bouts was, in a large measure, due to his zeal and labors. 
Lt. Mike Crawford is stationed at the Beaumont General Hospital, £1 Paso, Tex. Howard Miller is at Fort Lewis, AVash. 
1933 
Tigfae Woods, 7944 Ellis Ave.. Chicago. HL 
Lt. Charles Jaskwhich. formerly stationed at the Na\-y Pre-Flight School at Athens, Ga., is now with the Atlantic fleet air command. Lt. (he-) Norm Bowes. Kansas City, Mo., is at Regi­mental Headquarters, Navy Pier, Chicago. John HaHe>', Staten Island. N.- Y.. has been commis­sioned a second lieutenant after completing offi­cers* training at Fort Benning, Ga. 
Jahn FItzpatriA is head of the heat treat de­partment at the Bantam Bearings plant. South Bend. 
* ^nc e Barke is now a flight leader with the Naval Air Fonie and is on duty with the Atlantic Fleet. 
1934 
(Lieat. (j.g.) Bob Cahill has, of military neces­sity, resigned his job as class secretary. Nomina­tions are in order for a successor. All suggestions and offers gratefully and enthusiastically received by the Alumni Office. . . . Thanks to Bob for lots of swell help over several years—Eds.) 
Lt. BiD HcCormidc writes that since enlisting in the Army as a private a year and a half ago. he has been successively in the Air Corps. Public Relations. Military Intelligence, Quartermaster Corps, Transport Service, and is now intelligence officer for the New Orleans Staging Area head­quarters. He reports that at Officers* Candidate School at Camp Lee in February, 1942. John Bald­win. *33. (now a captain) and Ed Consineao* '41. (now a lieutenant) were his companions. Bill has been married since June. 1941. and a son, Nicho­las, was bom in October, 1942. 
Attorney Harry Rockett reports from Boston that Frank PalmisanI, now a master sergeant, has been transferred to Camp Edwards on Cape Cod and that Paul Broderick, *26, was inducted into the armed forces. 
1935 Franklyn C. Hodireifer. 340 Rosedale Ave . St. Lonis. Mo. 
From Hoch: 
Either the Christmas holidays were too much for our corresi)ondents or they are all off to the wars—but they all refused to come through with the goods. We even gave them two days grace. so now we are here to report our own findings: an interesting" letter from Jim Keonffh; a delayed message from Walt Powers' dad: some Christmas cards and three weddings. But none of this from our duly appointed reporters. We started out on the reportorial scheme this year and w-e are con­tinuing with the naming of ten more of our num­ber. It will be interesting at the end of the year to see just who and how many really were inter­ested enough in their class column to send in some copy. It looks pretty bad so far. But here is the list for April. COPY due in our hands NOT LATER THAN MARCH 13. Our minute men: John Annas; Bob Byrnes; Ed Callen; Car] Esser; Laa Hnihy; Al Loritsch; Bemie O'Brien; Jim ReWUc; Dick Walters; and Frank Timney. Let's go! 
•
 Now to that long delayed letter from Mr. W. 

T.
 Powers about Walt. 


**So many times you have requested information on the graduates. So many of them are in the Army at the moment. My son, Walter T. Powers, Jr.. has just graduated at Fort Monmouth. N. J.. Signal Corps, as a lieutenant." (letter written 10/20/42). We thank you. Mr. Powers, and apolo­gize for the delay in transcription. Please send along more about Walt's latest escapades. 
From Jim Keongh. 810 East Fourth St., Duluth. Minn.: 
"Never let it be said" that I am a complete in­grate; at least I can console myself with the thought. You see, for nigh on to eight years, I have gleaned considerable pleasure from your capable handling of the *35 column without con­tributing one line of information. . . . 
"My felicitations on the occasion of the new­bom scion of the Hochrciters! I, too, am '3.A in­definitely*, according to my classification card: having two children—boy going on three years and a s^rl of 10 months. The flamboyant letter­head above (Duluth Milk Corporation) besi>eaks my trade to all concerned. Have been in this busi­ness for over five years here in Duluth, coming from the home town (St. Paul) in June of 1937. My father, myself, and a Duluth man constitute the triumvirate in charge. .. . 

"Met Paul Brown of the 1937 class in March of this year; ran into him in the corridor of a local hospital and he was jtist taking his wife and new baby home to Hibbing. Tells me that he is with the Oliver Mining Co. up there. Was in St. Paul about six weeks ago, and had a drink with Bill Gnimont in a Grand Ave. pub. Bill is now with the Federal Cartridge Ordnance plant at New Brighton just outside Minneapolis, but thought that he might be called up for service soon. Dur­ing this summer, I had some correspondence from John Kavananch who is now living in Chicago, and is doing accounting work for some firm there. Have heard that Dick Hyde is now stationed in Minneapolis, in the employ of Shell or Texaco.— don't know which. 
"To revert to shop talk: remembered that Cliff Dudley was also involved in the milk business. Wrote him a long folksy letter punctuated with talk of the trade. This was long ago, and to date never received a reply from Paducah. Since then, several of the dairy industry publications have favored J. Clifford with considerable write-ups about his being commissioned recently in the Army Finance Dept. - . ." 
Thanks a million, Jim—the letter was enjoyable and newsy. In a moment you will read why you have not heard from J. C. 
Our Christmas cards came from many parts —we'll just note them as we go along. Charlie Maher wrote a message (no address) that he "recently decided to change from the U.S. Engi­neers to a commission in Naval Civil Engineer Corps. We are now organizing our construction battalion." Art and Virginia Conrad sent greet­ings (When can we use the material about your personal doings. Art?) Paul Gaamieri had a re­turn address of 418 E. Market St., AVarren. Ohio, and the "Lt." preceded his name. Lake and Mary and daughter (Mary Margaret) Kelly included a short note. Daughter was born July 23. 1942. Luke said, "Had a letter from the ex-roomie Ray Mnl­vey from the U.S. Coast Guard training station, Curtis Bay, Md. He is an able seaman. At a recent N.D.-Michigan football meeting here (Albany) saw Joe Conlon, formerly of Binghamton. now at a chemical company in Rensselaer—living in Al­bany. Jack Rainey is a first year student at Albany Medical College. Bob Lannon, also fi*om Bing­hamton. is a law secretary to a supreme court judge. .. . Ed Kirby has been in the Marines for quite a time." 
We appreciate all the news, Luke—congratula­tions on the daughter! And now to our most unusual Christmas card—a V. . .—Mail letter— "A Christmas Greeting from the Middle East— 
J. O." Cliff Dudley is in Africa—J. C. Dudley. 2nd. Lt. F.D.; Ha. Sq. 315th Serv. Gp.; APO 681 Postmaster. N. Y. This came as real news since the last we heard of J. C. was a year ago when he stopped in St. Louis on his way to Fort Ben­jamin Harrison for Officers' Candidate School. 
While we are on the African battlefront we might pass along this bit of information which came via one of our graduates of last June. She is a medical social worker with the Red Cross Foreign Service group, in the capacity of assist­ant field director. A recent letter from her tells of having Thanksgiving dinner on the coast of Algiers on one of our battle wagons with a naval officer of the class of '35 N.D. Any guesses in the hat? She was not able to disclose his name. 
Returning to the Christmas cards—an interest­ing one came along from "Alberta and Vincent Gorman." We gather from this that Vince Gorman took the plunge some time during the past year, perhaps after graduation from Cornell Medical School. The doctor and his new wife are living at 336 East 71st St., New York City. Congratula­tions. Vince—wish we had known about it on the happy date. 
Harry Becker came through with his usual Yuletide greeting and the family seems to be about stable. Glad to hear from you. Harry! 
Reviewing the October-December issue of "Fed­eral Probation" we came across the name of one of our crowd who had dropped from sight and sound during the past years—Franeii 'nraney. It seems that Frank, on July 1, 1942. "entered on duty as temporary probation officer in the Western District of Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh) during the absence" of the regular officer with the armed forces. Glad to hear that you are with the Federal System, Frank. 
Now to two more weddings and we'll close up the note book for this trip to press. The inimitable John Jf»eph "Gunner" McGrath, the Sedalia flash, the "keeper of the cannons"—he is now a "Bene­dict" (note definition—"Winston Simplified Dic­tionary"). Lt. McGrath was married to Miss Mary Catherine Redmond in Sacred Heart Church. Se­dalia. Mo., on Dec. 28. "Baftie," as she is known to her friends, has been Gunner's charming "lady of dreams" for these many years. Not only is she attractive and possessed of a delightful person­ality—she is also a magnificent cook. We can bear witness. Gunner is assistant shipping and receiv­ing officer at our Jefferson' Barracks. The Mc-Graths are living at 661 Rochester Drive. Lemay, Mo. (St. Louis suburb.) To the both of them we wish all kinds of good things. 
Jim Hill is taking the fateful step. too. When you read this the zero hour will have passed. Jim has asked us to best man the occasion which will be marked on the calendar as of Jan. 23 in Im­maculate Conception Church, Jefferson CHty, Mo. The lucky lady (we think Jim is in for a lot of luck, too) will be Miss Juanita Gilpin. Juanita threw off the Nebraska tradition a few years ago to join the NYA staff in Missouri. And so "boy met girl." Now that she is with the mid­west branch of the American Red Cross and Jim is with the Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. here, as a directory representative, they decided to make it a permanent thing. The Hills will be residing at 3225 Arsenal St. in St. Louis. To a fine pair we offer sincere felicitations. 
And so we close the little book until we can enter more choice morsels. Let's go, correspond­ents—we need your help I 
Sgt. John Flanagan, Grand Rapids. Mich., is now in Atlantic City, stationed with a" technical school squadron of the Army Air Forces Supply. Corp. Tom Young, Paducah, Ky., has been pro­moted from a corporal technician to sergeant technician in the finance department of the south­eastern Army Air Base at Augusta, Ga. 
1936 
Joseph F. Mansfield. 34 Fifth St , Pel­ham, N. Y. 
From Joe Mansfield: The Christmas season must have made many of the lads think of Notre Dame and the many friends they had back in the years between '32 and '36, because we received a goodly amount of news from several members of the .class. Those letters and cards are mighty welcome and they go to make the '36 column an interesting and chatty piece. 
John Moran is still in New York, although yours truly hasn't had the good fortune to see him of late. By this time. John is probably wear­ing another stripe on his Navy uniform. 
Sherb Herrick was to have entered Officers* School back a few weeks and will soon be an ensign. While he was stationed In New TC^E, Sheth did m. bang-up job for the Navy's gecruIUnc braneh by prodnciiiK a weddy radio show on WHOA. We negleeted to mention in the last issue of the "Ahmmns'* that Jee Walina is now an ensign, perhaps a Lt. (J.K), now—and when last we knew was stationed in Providoiee. B, I. He was pretty. Irasy serving as rootinff officer for that area. He was more than anxious to get sea duty. 
We saw Ji a Shcny a while back here in Gotham. Jim was wearing gold bars on other shoolder and looking mis^ty trim and handsome. Wah HBtwi is working in New York and doinsr very well. He informed ns that he expects to be in the service in the near future. 
Bin Wabh dropped us a card—thanks. Bill—ask­ing us to pass along his regards to all the lads in the class. He is a lawyer in Yonkers. Ken Laws also asks us to remember him to all the fellows. Ken, as yon all know, is one of the better MJ).s. He promises to drop us a letter in the near future. Lt, Jalui DesaMad is now sta­tioned at Camp Patrick Henry at Newport News, Va. We received a very nice letter from Pat Tefari which we'll pass along to you: "I jcnned the American Red Cross d^ t months ago as field director, serving the Armed Forces. We are the boys who try to help the soldiers with their per­sonal and family troubles. .. . I started at Camp Edwards, Mass., - and at present am the field di­rector at Presqoe Isle Army Air Held in Maine. In ca^e you don't know where it is (for I didn't) it is the farthest northern base in the.tT.S. and is called by all, a foreign base. . . . 
.. . At Camp Kdwards. I met Jehn Lively. '35,. at Houlton Air Base, Maine. I met Mee IVEIia^ '35. and before he left my base for parts unknown. Nidc Lambert*, *37. showed up. They were all lieutenants. It sure was swell meeting K.D. men. . . Jfy only wish is again to visit Notre Dame and meet the gang of *36." That was a great letter, Pat. Many thanks. And, fellows. Pat in­formed us that he was iust recuperating &om an oiieration for appendicitis when he penned those lines. Hope you're all set now, and keep up the great work you're doing. 
Here's a letter from Joe Salfivan, Kaval Air Transport Service, Fairfax field, Kansas City, Kans., that reached us via Jafcn Meraa, too late for the last issue. Joe is a lieutenant (i.g.). Here's the letter in part: 
**I was commissioned a few weeks after I saw you and have been on active duty with this squad­ron since June. About three weeks ago I was almost transferred to Squadron VR-2. based at Alameda. Calif., for assignment at one of their foreign bases, but our squadron commander went to the Bureau of Aeronautics and talked them into keeping myself and two other fellows here for the time being as this squadron is still in the formulative stages having only been commis­sioned on July 15. I have been assigned as ili^t control officer for the squadron and have a beau­tiful opportunity to do a big job for the Navy here. ... 
"Several weeks ago t was at the new U.S. Naval Air Station being constructed at Gardner. Kans., and met Lieut. (j.g.) Bbrty Fctcra, '36. there. H e is an athletic officer having taken his Indoctrina­tion Course at the U.S. Naval Academy in Hay. He said Bill Ccmcy, '25, was in the same class and is now on duty as athletic officer at the U.S. Naval Air Station, Glenview, 111., holding the rank of lieutenant. Marty's wife presented him with a daughter in July, their first child. Before joining-the Navy he had been coach at St. Benedict's Col­lege. Atchison, Kans. 
"A couple of weeks ago I was out with TOM TeMn, '36. whose family still lives in &nsas CSty. MO. He has been in the feed business in a small town in northwestern Minnesota but happened to be home on vacation when I called him. He says he it a 4F in the draft because of asthma. He is still single and looks about the same as he did at Notre Dame. When I have more time I plan to look up some more of the Notre Dame alumni in Kansas City. 
"Late in July I ran into Lee T. Flatley, who was a professor in the CJollege of Commerce at Notre Dame -while we were there, at a bar in the city. He was in Kansas City, Mo., auditing the Hotel Muehlebach for three weeks. In 1937 he left Notre Dame and joined the faculty at Mun­deldn CoUege in Chicago where he is still located. During the summer he works for this hotel-audit­ing firm out of Chicago. He says he married a St. Mary's College girl and has a boy two years old. 
"One evening early in July I humped into Tom Beardon, '36. of Sioux Falls, S. D. I hadn't seen him since about April, 1936, when he left Notre Dame. He had come to Kansas City that day on a business trip for his father's company. He recog­nized me on the street and let out a yell, other­wise I wouldn't have seen him. He says he is married and has a child on the way. Tom ad­vised that he hears from Tom Murphy of New­port, R. J., once in awhile and that the last he heard Murphy was in the Army at a camp in North Carolina. Tom Reardon and I spent sev­eral hours together that night at the Officers' Club talking over old times at Notre Dame. 
"I think I told you last March in New York that I was engaged. About the first of the year when I am eligible for some leave I'll probably take the step. Her name is Dorothy Marie Shea and she is from the north side of Chicago, near Evanston. She is a Rosary College graduate in 1939, having attended Wellesley before going to Rosary. She has been teaching in a Chicago high school for the past three years. 
"A couple of our officers here who were on the aircraft carrier Lexington in 1938 and 1939 with Tom Fitzgerald. '36, advised that Tom is now with the Wright Aeronautical Corporation in Pat­erson, N. J. 
"Early in June I spent an evening with Bill Sdimahl. '36, in Michigan City, Tnd. A year ago last spring he married Safronla Buchholz of Kan­
" sas City, Mo. Bill is still with the Pullman Com­pany at their Michigan City plant. ha\-ing pre­viously been at the Chicago plant." 
From where we sit, Joe, it appears that you're in a mighty interesting spot. When we win this war you'll probably emerge as a young Air Line proxy. We were very happy to receive another letter a few weeks ago from CpL Jrfin W. Kirsch, who is now with the 552nd Bombardier Training Squadron, Victor\'ine, Calif. We'll pass the letter on to you: 
"It was with a great deal of understanding and a side order of nostalgia that I read Bud Goldman's letter in the December 'Alumnus.' He's so right; the more intimate we become with the ways of life and death in this grim business of war, the more cherished become our memories of pleasant, placid years at Notre Dame. 
"I didn't have to join the Army and tour the country to appreciate my school. I loved it then and I love it now. But I have learned—and with the greatest satisfaction — how much our" school means everywhere throughout even the fringes of civilization in our country. When I say "fringes' I mean the swamps of Mississippi, the mountain villages of Colorado and the desert of California. I've spent months in training at iso­lated commumties in all of these places and. in­variably, the name of our university was magic and significant. 
"I have been in the Army Air Forces for seven months. Right now I am awaiting appointment to an Officers* Training School. The roster of our class must look like a G.L roll call now. And. of course, this is as it should be. Surely we of Notre Dame know only too well of the things worth fighting for. 
"Your neighbor, Frank Hodirciter, of the class of '35, will probably be interested in knowing that Joe Argus, Jr.. and myself joined up at the same time. Joe is somewhere in North Africa now doing his part to see that his wife and hew baby girl have a better world in which to live-My buddy. Dick Pfeilfer, is in aviation cadet training at Kelly Field. He has been wearing OD's for a year and a half now. 
"I don't think there was a freshman, sopho­more, junior, senior, post-grad, kitchen helper, instructor or nun on the campus at the same time with Tom (Red) Cassidy who didn't know him. You should remember. Joe. Tom and myself put on a few Bookmen jive sessions for your radio station. Yes, Tom is a yard-bird these days, too. Have located him at Fort Benning. Ga. I had the good fortune of seeing the Notre Dame-Southern California game Nov. 28. . . . Tell the boys I can never forget our four years of splendid companion­ship -^vithin sight of the dome, and that wherever they are I wish them success and Godspeed back to their homes and families." 
Thanks for a fine letter, John, and when you get a chance, drop us another. Best of luck. 
Well, that's about all there is for this issue. We'd like to add a word of thanks to all you lads who wrote us. We certainly appreciate hear­ing from you and we need those letters to keep this pillar rolling along on a full tummy. To those of you who are in service in foreign fields go the blessings and prayers of every '36er. Good luck and God bless you. 
Bill Stapleton, of South Boston. Mass., at last reports, was attending the Provost Marshal Offi­cers' Candidate School at Fort Custer, Mich. Don­nell McCorroack, of Memphis, is now a lieutenant in the Army, stationed in Orlando, Fla. 
Tom Cassidy. of Kings Park. L.I., N. Y., was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Army after officer training at Ft. Benning, Ga. Paul Guarnieri. Warren. O., was also commissioned a second lieutenant, at the Medical Replacement Training Center, Camp Barkeley. Texas. 
Bob Stapp is an ensign stationed at Rodd Field Training School, Corpus Christ:. Tex. Bob was in newspaper work before entering the service. Emery Pagliasottl is in the sales department of the Tidewater Associated Oil Company in Avon, Calif. 
Charlie Boyle,-.an ensign in the Naval Reser\-e, is on the U.S.S. J. Franklin Bell, c/o Fleet Post­master, San Francisco. 
Corp. Bill Meyers, '36, is still stationed at Fort Knox. Ky., despite rumors to the contrary. He recently spent his furlough in the old home town of Mishawaka, 
I O^ T ^*°^ ^'^^y* 910 Hawthorne Road, IwSi Grosse Pointe, Midi. 
Lt. Art Gregory is with Co. B.. 417th Infantry. 76th Div., Ft. George G. Meade, Md. 
Pfc J. A. Dobbs is now stationed at Fort Rich­ardson, Anchorage, Alaska. 
1938 
Harold A. Williams. 4323 Hatbldiall HA., Baltimore, Md. 
From Ha] Williams: 
I have quite a bit of news this month, so with­out further ado: 
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Burke have announced the marriage of their daughter. Helen Katherine. to Thomas Patrick Shiels. The marriage took place on Dec. 12. in New York. Congratulations. Tom. And you're getting one swell fellow, Helen. 
And here's one of the nicest letters this column ever baa received. It's from Miss Genevieve Mullen. She writes. "Each issue of the Notre Dame 'Alum­nus* that comes to my home, addressed to my nephew. Robert J* Hnlkn, this being his i>erma­nent address, is read by me from cover to cover before I forward it to him. He, too, enjoys read­ing it and getting news of former student friends, but he seems to be too busy to send news of his own experiences. 
"He was put to work here in Chicago by the Navy, and in September was made an~~ ensign and transferred to Washington. The two years that -he studied in Germany proved a valuable experi­ence for him in his work. On Dec. 26. he is to be married to Miss Mary Bruick at a solemn nuptial mass in Cincinnati, O. . . .Today's 'Sun* (Nov. 
22) carries a full page entitled 'Notre Dame Is 100 Years Old On Thanksgiving Day.' Our family, through Brother Alexander, has been connected with It most of that time; that's why I'm so proud of it." 
Thank you very much. Miss Mullen. We certain­ly appreciate your letter and your interest in the "Alumnus." Let's hear from you again. 
And now—from the sublime to the ridiculous— a letter from my good friend. John J. Lediner. attomey-at-Iaw, 416 J.M.S. Building, South Bend. Hours 10 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. 
Writes Jake: "Law business has been fairly good. .. . I am still an amateur columnist as I write a weekly column for the 'South Bend Moose Clubber,' a Moose publication as you may suspect from the name. It does not compare to the 'Scho­lastic* [Note: Jake, you owe me 25 cents], but my parents and girl friend enjoy it. Cliff Brown, John Horan's old roommate, was up for the Michigan game and stayed at 'Sloppy Acres/ as we call my town residence. At the Michigan game I ran into that old 'Scholastic' and publicity ex­pert; Georce Haitbcock who told me that he was managing a USO center in, I think, Texas." [No, Camp Forrest, Tennessee—Ed.] 
Jake, incidentally, is engaged to be married to Kay Bryan of South Bend, sister of Dr. Bob Bryan. *38. Judging from her picture in the South Bend "Tribune,"" she's a beautiful girl. Congratula­tions, Jake, and don't forget to send me that quarter. I can use it. 
And now for Christmas cards: first spot on the list belongs to Ensign Art Malhcm whose address is USS—S6646, c/o Fbst­master. New York. N. Y. Writes Art, "Nothing much I can tell you. I'm captain of an S.C. boat. Hear once in a while from Dan Cochran and Jade Solon, both civilians as far as I know. My brother is a second lieutenant in the tank corps at Camp Bowie, Texas. Phil McHugh. ex. '40, is in the PC Navy. Saw Harry Boisrert. '40, in a ship down here, and another flyer whose name eludes me. .. . I certainly envy the lads who are back at school for training. . . . Saw a chap named Dillon last night from Butler. Pa. Dillon was out about *40,1 believe. He's in a section base near whero I am now. AVhen you see Zerbst say hello for me." Thanks. Art, and good luck. It just seems like yesterday that you, your sister and I were sitting in the Penn Bar. toasting N.D. and the class of '38. 
And then cards from Annabelle. Bob "Tiger" and Michael McGrath. Please note the addition to the McGraths. And congratulations! Also cards from Bod and Katherine Sherwood (1730 Detroit St.. Flint. Mich.). Rose. Tom and Steve Hntdiin-: son (8009 35th Ave.. Jackson Heights, N. Y.), Ed and Patty Hagffar (Dallas, Texas), Margaret and Scott Keardon (317 Union Ave., S.E.. Grand Rapids, Midi.), Charies, Ellen and Charles Broo­i u (82 Ihmkirk Road. Baltimore. Md.). Bill Stapleton. now finishing Officers* Training School, Corps of BCilltary Police. Camp Custer, Mich., and Ernie Mmorin (6712% Sunset, Hollywood. Calif.) Says Ernie, "Still working hard at Douglas." 
And now a swell letter from Ensign George F. Fitzpatrick, 1210 N. Kenihvorth St , Westover, Arlington, Va. "Writes George: 
"Received December 'Alumnus* todny and after receiving preliminary report on contents from Fran. George, Jr., climbed on my knee and the two of us dived into it—George. Jr.. literally. . . . I am the 'Tom* you were not too sure about in your column. Bumped into Zerbst one evening in front of the Navy Department. Couldn't believe my eyes at first, thinking he was still in India. Should have known it was an N.D. man because he got a cab right away and was about to step into it when I hailed him. Later talked with Jack and we were invited to visit with him at George Howard's but our youngster restricts our move­ments. I understand that the Johnny Braddock family is expecting. . . . 
"Ensign Jack Ward is on duty here and we have managed to get together with him and his wife. In the line of duty htre. I have managed to run into Ensign Cy Stroker, on the way out to foreign duty. Ensign Louis Wolf, '41. also to foreign shores. Lt. John Montedonico, '36. and Lt. (j.g.) John (I think) Maloney, '37. (1 think), both on their way to the Local Defense Force School in Boston for small boat training. Also Lt. (j.g.) Eleanor O'Kane, formerly assistant dean of women at St. Mary's. 
"Managed to dash up to New York for the game. Saw Mr. and Mrs. Clark Reynolds; Clark's living in Madison. N. J., and has an excellent position with the Union Bag Company in N. Y. Tom Shiels and I attended the game together. Had a long talk with Jack Mahoney of Ashtabula, now a private in the Army and living at a fine hotel in Atlantic City. Jack shortly will be in officers* training schoDl. Also had time to say hello to Harry Morris, Bobby Brennan and John Poore. Len Tobin, when last heard from, was designer in a mill in Brunswick. Me. The only and one Hook Kerwin was still in Cleveland, and is now engaged to be married. Remember Art Gartland (Father Frank's brother) who taught economics a year or two ago ? I sen-ed with him in Boston; he is also ensign. USNR. Fred Solari was also about to be commissioned when I left Boston. . . ." 
Thanks, George, for the swell letter. And apolo­gies for getting your first name wrong in my original report. I'll be dropping in on you one of these days. 
And that concludes the notes for this month except that I heard from Hal Langton recently and he is still going strong, along with his twins. Some fine babies, by the way. Oh yes, about 4 
A.M. Christmas morning Zerbst told me that George Howard is now a beaming pappy. On Dec. 
23. A girl. 
I almost forgot— and in re: that Zerbst, too. Miss Elizabeth Steward Zimmerman and he are to be married in Frederick, Md.. on Jan. 31. The bride-to-be, a graduate of Smith College in 1940, is my wife's closest friend; Jack and she met at our wedding just a few months ago. Pretty nice, eh? Jack is soon to finish up his training with the FBI in Washington. 
Let's have some letters from you bums. 
Lt. Kyle Donnell was, according to a Christmas card, still in the Naval Hospital in Philadelphia. Joe Campbell, Mason City, la., is attending the Naval Reserve Midshipmen's School in New York City. Lt. Georve Elmore^ South Bend, has been assigned to the flight advisory board at Gunter Field, Montgomery, Ala. 
Second Lieut. Tom Foy, Central. N. M.. who had been reported "missing in action." is a prisoner of war. according to word received by his parents from the War Department. He is held by the Japanese in the Philippines. Ensign Bill Mahoney, former track coach, is now on the ath­letic staff of the new Navy Pre-Flight School at Del Monte, Calif., transferred from a similar school at Athens. Ga. 
Len Skogland is comptroller for the Scully-Jones & Co., 1901 S. Rockwell St., Chicago. Howard David Bilger, a first lieutenant, is in the Finance Detachment. First Fighters Group. iHs address is 
A.P.O. 525. c/o Postmaster. New York City. 
1939 
Vincent DeCovrsey, 454f Jaiboe; Kan­laa City, Ho. 
From Vincc DcCourseyi 
Another Christmas time has come and gone. Just to refresh our mind, we got out the Febru­ary, 1942, issue of the "Alumnus." and read in the '39 column: "What will probably be about the worst, and certainly the most exciting, year . . . started with, horribly, a big bang." Then men­tion that ". . . find that RoUie Martin. Motts Tonelli, and Tom Foy were in the Philippines . . . John Cella (Army). Frank Fitdi (Navy) .. . a letter from Dick O'Melia with news of OIlie Hel­land's death . . .Dan Sheedy graduated from Miami and with the 'Hornet' at last report. . . ." and lots more like the above. 
We picked out these names because we are going to refer to them again in the column: there were many more, next Christmas there will prob­ably he a still larger, and. almost certainly, a sadder list. 
Christmas cards received: Dino Falsioni. Jack Hennessy, Dick Anton (and still no letter) Bob Heywood, (St. Mary of the Lake Seminary, Mun­delein. 111.). Joe Harrington, Ancon, Canal Zone-
Christmas cards received with notes or letters: Sgt. Bernard J. Feeney, 1359 Park Road. Wash­ington, D. C, who makes his debut into the col­umn with these words: "I graduated from Cath­olic University Law School in May, passed the 
D. C. bar in June, entered as a volunteer private in Uncle Sam's army in July . . . have been stationed with the Chiefs of Staff since August. Next month I'll be admitted to the Court of Ap­peals, though practicing law, like pleasure driving here, appears to be out for the duration." 
Brother Louis Bertrand (Frank Canningham) from the Dominican House of Studies, River For­est. 111., sees light ahead since he has only "this and one more year of philosophy to finish, then three years of theology before I'm ordained/* Frank wanted Dick Anton's address (and so do we. but presume that Oliver Farm Equipment Co.. Charles City, la., will reach him). Frank further says: "Frank O'Laughlln is in Alaska, a private in Army Intelligence, McDonough is at Corpus Christi for basic flight training. John Murphy enters the Office of Supply as a Navy ensign Thursday." 
Jack Doyle*. "Still at the same old stand (Pas­saic, N. J.) with U.S. Rubber.** 
Ensign Frank Fitch: (passed by Naval Censor): "Read your column each month, but usually about , two months after it is written. Very enjoyable hearing of the fellows. Notre Dame club here gets together each month. Several of us tried to listen to N.D.-Army game, but had only fair luck. We got the final score any way. Colonel DaBoia is still the spark of the club. See Joe Harnngton and Frank Fitzpatrick quite often. Joe seems to be well settled here and Frank talks of getting in the Navy. This fall made a short trip to Ecua­dor and the Galnpagos Islands. Other than that, things have been quite routine. Cross the Isth­mus every few weeks and get to see most of what is here, hut that is limited." Frank's address at the time of writing (late November) was Box 
N.D. 59 Fleet Post Office, Balboa, C. Z, 
That was the ectent of the cards, bat we £ d get a fine crop of letters at or just axonnd Christmas, including among others, one from Mrs. Michael Yannuzzi, saying: ".. . I notice that you repeatedly ask alumni for news of them­selves, and in view of the fact that my brother LMiis L. DaPra has neglected to do so [whidt re­minds us that we owe Loa a letter from aboat two years backl I have taken it Tipon myself to in­form you of his doings since his graduation in 1940. After practicing law he was offered a posi­tion as attorney with the Federal Power Commis­sion in Washington. He worked with the FPC for li months prior to his induction into the Army on June 2, 1942. After a week's stay at Fort Ben­jamin Harrison, he went to Biloxi, Miss., for basic training where he met Banald Resent, '41. who has been with him ever since. He is now a member of the Military Intelligence division— 337th squadron, ranking second in his class, which was very disapoicticg to him. He is at present at Focatello, Idaha a stafit sergeant as of Dec. 1. satisfied except for the N.D.-Hichigan game which hurt his pride and his pocketbook. His address is StaiT Sergeant Louis L. DaPra, 337 Bombardment Group, Army Air Base, Poea­
_ tello, Idaho." We want to thank Mrs. Yannnzzi for her very nice letter and pgain urge members of classmates' families to drop us a line. 
Another member did just that. Louise M. Hayes wrote that her brother Frank has been in the Army since August, 1941. His address Lt. Frank 
J. Hayes, Co. A, 319th Inf. Reg. A.P.O. 80th, Camp Forrest, Tenn. 
Someone in Detroit sent a card stating that Williara E. CarrvQ was attending OCS at Fort Benning, Ga. 
A long and interesting letter from. Nona Ander­son just after the first of the year. Said Norm: "Just saw my first copy of the 'Alumnus' since last spring when I finally patched up a 4F and became a glider pilot. It was great to read about the old gang in the last issue. I only wish I could spend a few of the old days again. 
"Since last July I have wandered about 28 states getting various stages of my training.. The recruiting officer talked me into rejecting a Navy commission in favor of a six-weeks' glider coarse which would result in an immediate commission. So far I've spent six months and have only com­pleted primary and basic. There, are 15 classes ahead of us awaiting advanced and that means at least 12 more weeks before they get to me. But at that I certainly have had my share of experience. 
"Was fortunate enough to see Lt. (j.ff.) Dan Sheedy at Corpus Christi when he returned from action with the fleet at Midway. He caught a (censored) full of Jap lead but knocked down two Zeros plus several assists. He is now wearing the Navy Cross plus the F^rplb Heart. His broth­ers. Mike and Paal, are also pretty bosy, Hflce in the Navy, Paul in the FBI. 
"Was in Buffalo Christmas Day. Saw Joe Byan with his wife; they look fine thou^ Joe is budget­ing since the Michigan game. Frank Heppmlucen is now an ensign in the Coast Guard. Bab Nasel is finishing OCS in anti-aircraft: his brother Chack expects to leave soon as a member of the enlisted reserves. Tom Shields. '40, is with me here: we wound up together at Greenville, S. C. and managed to make the same sqnadron here." Norm's address is SfSgt, N. J. Anderam, Sqnad­ron 16. Advanced Glider School. A.A.F.A.F.9.. Stuttgart. Ark." 
My brother Bill came home from Jefferson Bar­racks in St. Louis over Christmas and told me-that one of his friends had a story of a town character at Rice Lake. Wis., who had just come into the Barracks, name of Parks. Letter from said character followed in three days; I presume Bill told him of an impending expose. Frank PaA s 
Left to right—Ensign George G. Thompson, '42, naval aviator, and 2nd LieuL Joseph Hobig. '39, Marine aviotor, were recently commisnoned; 1st LieuL Robert E. Bodibaugh, '40, was recently promoted from second lieutenant and is now Chief of Staff liason officer, 7th Armored Division, Camp Polk, La.; Ensign Dan S. Gibbs, '38, naval aviator, 2nd LieuL Charles L. McMahon, ex. '42, Army Air Corps, and Ensign Senna J. Heatherman, '37, naval aviator, all were recently commissioned. 
^%<^V^^»^^^»»^^^^^^^»^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^»^^»^^^>^^^»^^»^^»^^»^^^^^»^^^^^»^^^^^^^^^^>^>^^^^^^»^^^^^^i^^^^^n^MM»^W^W^^^WW^V^WMWMMM^^^^WV^W^^^^MM^^*^^^^ 
is now in Hdgs. Flight of the 31st T.S.S.. perma-. ment party and assigned to the classification divi­sion. He wrote: "Had a card from Larrr Sutton who is in Texas proposing to join the Air Force, though in what capacity I do not know. Bol Mar­tin is stiU home. Doing very well, of course, with the Dcwspaper business." We still remember the promise, Frank, and will do. The Revolution looks better daily. 
We had this column signed, sealed and all but delivered a couple of days ago, (on time. Mr. Dooley, on time) but at the last minute an over­burdened postman rang the bell and deposited letters that kept us busy for the past two days adding to the column. No comment is necessary, they are magnificent, but O'Melia's came here the hard -way (Kansas City, Kans,. to Anaheim, Calif., to Kansas City, Mo.) and so is deserving of special mention. Captain R. J. 0*MeIia, US­MCR (mind you!) can be reached at 3630 Fla­mingo Drive, Miami Beach. Fla. He is chief flight instructor. Instrument Unit, N.A.S., Miami, Fla. 
Dick says: ". . . Some of the boys I have met in the last six months: first, Lloyd Worley was stationed in Jacksonville for awhile. Jane and my­self helped Lloyd get properly hitched last June just before he left for Harvard to go to school as an ensign in the Navy. 
"Bill Tacker, MO. was also in Jacksonville. He married a New York girl last May. He was trans­ferred to Miami and if he reads this I hope he 
•will call immediately. Frank Kelley, '39, is hap­pily married and working for Foley Bros, in Jacksonville. He is still the same as he was at 
N.D. in looks, etc 
"While going to an advanced instrument school in Atlanta I had the fine luck to run into Dick (Larry) Benedict, wife and his sister Mardl Ann. While there I found Dick was an ensign working down in the Caribbean area. After leaving Atlan­ta, Jane and I returned to Jacksonville where I had teen teaching instrument flying for a year. 
"As you know, my wife, Jane, lives in Miami and ID and behold, if I wasn't transferred to Hianu Dec 10, 1942, to form an instrument squad­ron here I have 30 instructors under me and they are all a very fine bunch of men. Our first graduate from this new instrument course was Danny GibW, '38. 
"Geotve (Jack) Neumann stopped in on his way to some Army field; he had just finished his primary in the Air Corps. I forgot to get his new address. How about a letter, George? 
"I also ran into Jerry Bordeaux in the Jax railroad station; only saw him a few minutes. He is in the Army. Lt. (j.K.) Binr Binkowski is now in Jax going to signal officer school. I saw him for only a few minutes. Wall O'Heara went through Jax as did Gordon Love while I was there. Oh, yes, Jim Raars brother also gradu­ated from Jacksonville. I saw a lot of Paul Hal­len in Jax; he was over at the house often with a couple of his boys. Jane and I saw him go all the way through from cadet to ensign and he is now in pre-operational training in Jax. 
"Some of the New York gang will remember Rog Sweeney from Pelham, N. Y. He was a pri­vate in the Marines going through school at Jax. Bill Maher is an ensign at Jax; I saw him sev­eral times at the Officers* Club. 
"Brother Don was elected district attorney last fall up in Rhinelander and is doing very nicely." 
Letter no. two in the group was from Oiailes Colgan. at long last. Says Charlie:' "After gradu­ation I rattled around the Mediterranean with my parents and got back into New York just before the war broke. From then till 1942 I went to law-school. After graduation to the firm of Willkie, Owen, Otis, Farr and Gallagher. After some months there, I took a leave of atsence and am now working with Prof. Karl Llewelyn, who is engaged in revising the Uniform Sales Act. That explains what I have been doing since I saw you last, 
"I have not seen many of the men of the class. I have seen Grer Rice and Charlie Calla­han around several times since they lived up near Columbia. I found out that Joe Dray went through the midshipmen's class here at Columbia, but did not see him. Sal Scarlata is finishing his last year at Long Island Medical School. I had a tele­phone call from Joe Smalley just before Christmas vacation; he is attached to the Signal Corps and is with an outfit that is making Army movies in Astoria. If anyone has information as to the whereabouts of Joe Leisinff I would be grateful. Regular readers of 'Life* magazine know that Julie Bercik is flying at Midway since his pic­ture appeared in an issue of that magazine a short time ago." Thanks a lot, Charlie, and next time you get the urge, sit down and bang out a few more notes. 
Last, from Fred Sisk. Private Fred Sisk now. Headquarters' Area, Recruit Reception Center. 1609 Service Unit, Fort Custer. Mich. Fred's letter, however, was mostly address. Now that we know where he is, we will .be able to supply him one of our famous epistles, a thing long to be treas­ured. Fred mentioned that Corp. Herb Fairall of Denver and the Marines is headed for Officers* Candidate School at Quantico. Also he wanted to ~ know where were: Joe Dray, Frank Fitdi (see above). Dick Anton, etc. Joc'Ryan and Fred had a meeting on Joe's honeymoon. 
And that's that for the month. Except for one thing. In the first paragraph we mentioned Molts TonellL Looking over the Catholic paper List Sun­day, we found an item saying Mario TonelH's parents have been informed he is a prisoner of the Japanese in the Philippine area. 
Looks as though our one job for the next sev­eral months or so is to make sure that Motts is able to attend that five-year reunion in 1944. Tom F»y, '38, is also a Jap prisoner in the Fbilippines. 
[D««ley add: At the very minute I finished un­twisting this typing and—even worse—writing of DeCoarsey's in walked Noel Digby, a sophomore. Yes, Fred's brother, a duplicate of Fred in looks, and, like Fred, one of the leading campus writers. Noel said Fred is in his second year in the semin­ary in New Orleans and had three days at home at Christmas.] 
Jim Raaf resigned his position in South Amer­ica with W. R. Grace & Co. and returned to the States on Christmas Day with the hope of be­coming a naval aviation cadet. He had been in 
S.A. for two and a half years. In Balboa on Christmas Eve Jim spent some hours with Joe HarrinKton and Frank Fitzpatrick, missing out on Frank FItcli, who is also down there. In Jack­sonville. Fla., Jim met Chock Rasor who had just returned from Africa as a navigator with the Air IVansport Command. Jim said that Jerry Kane, '38, (also with Grace) and his family left Lima about two weeks before he did and will be in Los Angeles henceforth. The Raaf address for the present is. as of yore, S t Clair. Mo. 
Larry Doyle is a lieutenant in the Signal Corps and is stationed at Asbury Park. N. J. 
I T*tU Am» uawmtkm, Wla. 
The "Alumnus" shares the honors this issue with the *"IWb" of Oiicago. where "Private Fay on Parade." a report of Bill's military doings, is one of the most popular Sunday features. The erst­while "Scholastic" impressario writes: 
My last "Alumnus" must have dropped out of my barracks bag somewhere on that last mountain we tramped over, so I don't have Bob Sanford's address, but maybe you can squeeze this into the '40 notes. 
About me: Inducted August, 1942. at present corporal in a machine gun outfit, Co. M.. 319th Infantry. APO 80, Camp Forrest, Tenn-, and due at Infantry Officers' Candidate School. Fort Ben­ning. Ga.. about Feb. 1. 
Spent about six weeks on detached service, re-­porting the Second Army Tennessee maneuvers 
but didn't see Lieut. Jack Pindar, who, according to this column, is with the 8th division. Funny, I thought I saw everybody in the 8th division. And even if I didn't see Pindar. I should have heard him if he can hup-tup-three-four as loudly as he discussed beinfc-as-such in any of the half dozen Doc McMahon classes we argued through. 
See also where A! Funk "passed through an in­duction center." This is an order for him to write. I can order him because he probably is the only guy in *40 I outrank at present. Maybe he passed through that induction center months ago. though, and it would be fine to run into him or anybody else at Benning. 
Met Don Yonnff in a Nashville drug store. He is a lieutenant in a tank destroyer outfit. What hap­pened to Ed McDermott. Joe Ryan. Ed Hoston, Jack Dillon, Ed Repctto. Bod Kotte, and Shorty SdiaUer? 
About Scfaallcr, while I was still in the Chicago "Tribune" sports department. I worked out one day on some copy about the Western Open golf tournament. Down in the agate was "Schaller. Milwaukee. 40-40—80." That's the last I saw of Shorty, which will probably interest all of Alum­ni's ex-second floor rear, all the patient souls who iKrmitted Shorty to chip niblick-shots along the corridor in the winter. 
Saw Dan Canale in Chattanooga. He said Phil was a lieutenant in the Air Corps and expected overseas duty. I suppose e%*erybody knows Paul Lenihan got this Marine wings and also is reported overseas. 
I am making a New Year's resolution to write once more in *43. I hope Funk, Ryan, Kotte, Cic­colella, Huston, Dillon, et cetera, also come through with a letter. 
P.S. Almost forgot to mention a letter from Don Foskett, who was in Quartermaster OCS two months ago. Also. Jack Willroann and I saw the Cubs play in Chicago last summer while Jack was working for an ensign's bars, or whatever en­signs wear, at Northwestern. 
Clarence "Pete" Sheehan, Army Air Forces Crew School, Hendricks Field. Sebring, Fla., writes: "I have again changed my address. Now. I'm a member of the Air Corps and attached to public relations and special services. I also edit copy for the *Hi-Life,* weekly news magazine. Like it very much and hope to learn a lot about the Army way of doing press releases, etc., before I leave here. 
"Haven't heard too much news about the fellows but I'll pass along the little bit on hand. Lt. /ohn 
C. Moran is at the Quartermaster Depot, Fort Worth, Texas . . . Lcroy Keach is an aviation cadet at the Army air base in San Antonio . . . First SeiTt, Spike Siescl, '39, has been trans­ferred to Fort Wadsworth. N. Y. . . . Bill Dun-levy, '30, is stationed at Camp Davis, S. C. 
John Starkie, Great Falls. Mont, is engineering officer at the 372nd Sub-Depot there. 
CpL Frank Tally, Minneapolis, has been recuper­ating from an illness in the O'Reilly General hospital, Springfield. Mo, Tom Sdiriner, Lake­wood. C , has been commissioned a second lieu­tenant in the Army Medical Administrative Cori>s after completing officers' candidate school at Camp Barkeley. Tex. He is now at Camp Atterbury. Ind. Joe Dray is an ensign in the Navy, sta­tioned at Norfolk, Va. Bill Piedmont enlisted in the Navy as a specialist second class and was detailed to the Chaplain's Division as a social service worker at Sampson. N. Y. His wife and their baby are with Mrs. Piedmont's family in Sault Ste. Marie. Mich. John Griffin, St. Louis, at last reports, was attending the officers' pre­paratory candidate school in the Signal Corps of the Army, Camp Crowder, Mo. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Lt. Don Foskett, East Weymouth, Mass., reports he is trying to get used to returning salutes in­stead of giving them after graduating from the Quartermasters officer school. He is now officiat­ing in Co. C, 303rd QM Bn., Camp Butner. N. C. Don relayed the news that Phil Wade, Elizabeth. 
N. J., is now a second lieutenant in the Infantry: that Jack Moran, Elmhurst. L.L. was at that time finishing ofhcers' training: and that Jim Haf­naffel. Clarion, Pa., was graduated with Don from the Quartermaster officer school. 
John Curran, Dearborn. Mich., is a private. first class, and is stationed at en air base over­seas. Lt, Jim Donoghne, of the Marines, was wounded in Guadalcanal but how seriously the Alumni Office hasn't yet heard. No dope either ns to where Jim is now. Vince Gieslcr, Chicago, re­turned recently from the South Pacific to attend officers' candidate school at Fort Monroe. Va. He was married on Dec. 5 to Miss Naomi Kimball. Chicago, and they are now residing in Virginia. 
Lt. Joseph O'Connell is stationed at Camp Shelby. Miss., after completing officers* training at Ft. Benning, Ga. He was in South Bend over the Christmas holidays. 
Bill Dillon writes that he is the father of a son born Dec. 17, 1942. He is still stationed at Ft. Warren, Wyo., as an instructor in the administra­tion and personnel school. 
Phil Sandmaier is stationed with the Finance Section of the 83rd Infantry Division, Camp At­terbury, Ind. 
Marine Capt. Tom Philpott, a veteran of the Solomon campaign, is now stationed in San Diego. Tom. who was at N.D. for a brief visit not long ago, writes that he had seen 2nd Lt. Jim Kelly on the San Diego base as well as Capta. Bob Hackman, '38, and Geonee Hanerty. George was later moved to Camp Nylon. 
John W. Schindler, '09. Mishawaka, writes that his nephew, Tom Webster, '40. was wounded while fighting with the Marines at Guadalcanal. Tom was recently promoted to a captaincy, and was transferred to Guadalcanal on Nov. 6. 
Bulletin: TOM WEBSTER died from his woands. it was announced on Feb. 4. 
I 0^ I Set. John W. Pattenon, Jr., 553* Dar-I T ^ I linston Rd„ Pittsbwvh, F«. 
This elegant letter from Hubert Schlafly, 71 Eastholm Road, Schenectady. N. Y., came in re­sponse to a request from the Alumni Office that classmates take over for the "overseas" Jolin Pat­terson : 
In spite of the four wonderful years that found us all together in the golden reflection of the dome, how swiftly do we drift apart and lose con­tact with each other after graduation? Still, a thread of news about those men we have known in college always finds welcome ears. So I'd like to exchange the little bit of news that I've been able to collect for any stories about our class­mates that any of you might have on hand. 
Tom Vincent is now married—^yes. to that pretty little girl from Connecticut that he had out to the Senior Ball. I believe the big affair took place Nov. 28. T. C. had worked for General Electric in Schenectady and then at Pittsfield. Mass. I don't know just where he is just now. Joe Ryan enlisted as a naval air cadet last Sep­tember and has waited months to be called to duty. Jan. 6 he got 15-hours notice to report in New York City. He was looking forward to being sent to sunny North Carolina but instead they sent him back to the cold and snow of IVoy, 
N. Y.. for ground school. Incidentally. Tom, Joe, and I all lived together at one time in Schenec­tady. Now I'm the only one left of that group. 
Bob Watters, kno^vn to his friends as Dr. Thor. is in Schenectady—when not on the way to or from Toledo where I understand there is a cer­tain student nurse. Bob is going great guns in the 
43 

General Electric Research Laboratory—his name on the door and everything. Jade Nace is also in town—^been working nights for as long as I can recall. Eadi time I see him he assures me that in just a few weeks he is going on the daylight shift. Jack is sort of headman testing turbines on that shift. 
Jtkumj H«IlaB4 is a home town boy here in Schenectady. He was married last spring to one of the nicest girls yoa ever hope to meet. Johnny is an insurance man. and a dam good one; as anyone who knows him can well imagine. Fve lost track of Geerce Brawn. He was married shortly after SEtaduation and was here in Schenec­tady for a time. Gene Dackwerth has gone into radio engineering in Bridgeport, Conn. I heard that Larry Schaudt was in the Army. My old roomie, Hei% WcslSMff, now has a Pvt. before his name and is with the 28th Technical Squadron at Jefferson Barracks. Mo. He may be more than a private by now but that is what he gets for not having written roe for so long. 
I saw Jahii Maaagtaa one day in Grand Cen­tral Station with a pretty girl on his arm. He is at Bridgeport. Conn., working with Renungton Arms Co. Saw Ja d Kyan and Dan Ticdcaiana at the Penn Bar after the Army game. 
Jae (Mike) McCaaghcy wrote an interesting letter a few days ago. He quit his job with TVA and came home to enlist. He caught the Navy V-7 just before the deadline. What bull sessions I used to attend in Joe's room after the lights were turned out! Joe went on to say in his letter: "Ted Barrett was with us at Gilbertsville. He was transferred to another dam and finally quit last summer. Last I heard he was signed up in the ground crew and was laboring in Chi during the wait. . . . Jerry the Hick (Jerry Hicfcey) is still in Gville the lone survivor of a once proud N.D. contingent. Ray Bairiey left last June, got caught by Uncle, and is teaching other privates gun mechanisms at Lowry Field. Colo. . . . Joe Kasaa is waiting for a sailor suit in the form of a V-7 call. Bab Dyke is an ensign now stationed at Nor­folk. Va. . . . Andy DeSiMan is at Rantoul (HI.) ground school." 
Well, fellows, that just about completes the part of the litany that I know. Maybe I shoold add that I am in the Radio Transmitter Engineer­ing Department of G.E. Company and find the work mighty interesting. If any of you get up Schenectady way be sure to look me rp. 
And Jim Newland, too. came through beautifully for the far-away Sec. Pattersan: 
Like the young chap who was called on to give an unprepared talk in a public speaking class do I accept Bill Paaley'a assignment of relaying to the alumni, news about Notre Dame men of '41 that has filtered into and out of the Hoosier capital. 
A poor substitute, needless to say, for our esti­mable secretary, Hr. Pattersan, but nevertheless a few sentences from the rusty typewriter of one who is perhaps unworthy of the opportunity but who deems it a real pleasure. 
Here is an interesting note from Lieat* Jaha C Sidurdsu Jr., Virginia. Minn., relayed to yours truly from his father. Johnny, who was married Hay 12. 1942, at San Diego, has been with the Marines in the Pacific since last July. 
"I was looking over 'Reader's Digest* the other day and it explained the stages a man goes through on the desert. It applies pretty well to a tropical bland. The first week you talk to your­self; the second week you talk to the lizards; the next week the lixards talk to you. and after that yoa find yourself listening to the lizards. 
"There isn't much excitement here. Our enter­tainment consists of movies every night, an offi­cer's wine mess, all kinds of sports, and a little 
'jaw-bone' poker. We have jut completed a boxinjr ring and it probably is the only one ivithin a thousand mile radius. So we are not devoid of all entertainment. And then there is the undj'injr hope of reaching; home in the near future. 
"I must close before lights go out-I thought I had the last of Mights out* at 10 o'clock when I left N.D., but, no, it's the same in the Marine Corps. By the way, have you heard that Notre Dame beat Southern California? I have a captain who is ready to slit my throat if I mention it many more times. He's from U.S.C." 
A patriotic epistle from an erstwhile roommate, Jimmy Ferry, Brazil, Ind., is v.-orthy of note. By the time this goes to press, Jim expects to be a second lieutenant with the Army's armored forces. His class was scheduled to graduate Jan. 16 at Ft. Knox, Ky. 
"I had to transfer from the Air Corps to the a.-mored division to do it but that guy Johnny Richards isn't going to be the first of our bunch to see combat. I certainly envy some of the gang who get to visit ye old alma mater. I would like to see once more that ice-box in St. Ed's annex we lived in during our junior year, wouldn't you?" 
With numerous men of '41 in the ser\'ice, Indi­anapolis by and large is conspicuous by their ab­sence. 
Milt *'Moose" Piepul, despite a more or less mediocre crop of material, is working hard as coach at Indianapolis* Cathedral High School. His football team had a representative season and his basketball forces, playing a schedule I'e­plete with top-notch Hooisier hardwood opponents, are holding their own. 
Mike Kelly, currently .T. second class_ Navy petty officer, is helping Uncle Sam with new Indiana recruits in Indianapolis. He smd his Sorin Hall roommate of '40 and Ml, Kenny Collins, he of the flying feet, is awaiting a V-7 Na\T call at his home in Fargo. N. D. 
Chock Gainer, of Whiting, Ind., and the U.S. Army, is located in Indianapolis. He is understood to be stationed at a local Selective Ser\'ice recruit­ing station. 
Chuck Green, Jr., of Aurora. 111., is .-i chemist at an Indianapolis plant. He receives his mail at 1512 N. Meridian St., Apartment 12. 
While our Mr. Patterson is away, this humble servant would apreciate hearing from you gentle­men of our class. Your news, in turn, will be sent to the "Alumnus" editors at school. My ad­dress is James G. Kewland. Editorial Department, "The Indianapolis News," Indianapolis. Ind. 
Charlie Res^nolds, Mt. Carmel. III., is stationed at the Santa Ana Army Air Base, Calif. Al Redd. Augusta. Ga., successfully completed officers' can­didate school in engineering and. after being sta­tioned at Camp Crowder, Tenn., is now in Califor­nia with this address: 2nd Lt.-40th Engineer Combat Regiment, Desert Maneuver Area, Freda. Calif. He would like to hear from his old friends, especially John Welch, *40, and Ed Battonr, '40. Jim Gonner, Burlington, la., is a student in the Loyola (Chicago) School of Medicine, He is a sec­ond lieutenant in the Army resen*e. 
Dick McMahon, Milwaukee, was married on March 21 and is stationed with the 1031st Tech­nical School Squadron (SP), BTC No. 5, Kearns. Utah. In the same squadron is Jim Kehoc. '33, a physical ed instructor, putting the new recruits through those first setting up exercises. Dick han­dles bonds, insurance and dependency allowances. John Bnrke, Sioux Falls, S.D., is a glider pilot stationed at Albuquerque, N. M. Bill Schaller, Milwaukee, is in the Naval Pre-FIight School at tlie University of Iowa. Jim Lancaster, South 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Bend, has been promoted to corporal at Paine Field, Wash. He was inducted into service last June. 
Dick Ball, Buffalo, N. Y., (who received a mas­ter's degree in economics in 1942 at Indiana University) was not commissioned with the latest group of midshipmen at Notre Dame, because of a broken arm received while playing handball. He will probably be commissioned in March. Jerry O'Dowd and JtK Miller were in the class that was graduated at N.D. on Jan. 2S and are now en­signs. 
Staff Sgl. George Fcrrick was married in Octo­ber and is stationed at Briggs Field, Texas. Ed Hultgrcn is with the Haskins and Sells account­ing firm in Chicago. Lt. Don Smarinsky, sta­tioned at Drane Field, Lakeland, Calif., reports he has met only two Notre Dame men since he entered the scr\-ice. His outfit: 190S Q.M. Trfc. Co. (Avn.) 
Howard Hilles is a lieutenant in the Army Air Corps and is stationed at Harrisburg. Pa. First LicuU Cliflf Foskctt is stationed at Fort Story. Va. 
Lt. Dick "Torchy" Dora received a large blow in the "Reporter at Large" column of two De­cember issues of the "New Yorksr." A. J. Liebling, in reporting from England, mentioned Dora as "a young white lieutenant with violently red hair flaring out from under his overseas cap." Dick is (was) in England with a colored truck com­pany. 
1942 
WUliam E. ScanUn. 101 W. Pleasant St., Fortaffc. Wis. 
From Bill Siranlon: 
Substantial evidence of the wide-spreading movements of the Class of 1942 is further empha­sized by the arrival of communications from In­dian:^, Ceor:;i''. Wisconsin. Massachusetts, South Carolina, Mississippi, Vir;rinia. Oklahoma, District of Columbia, Canada and foreign points. I got down to Notre Dr-me-Northwcstern basketball game at Chicago Stadium, Jan. 16, from my Fort Sheridan location and it was another of those Irish homecoming affairs. . . . 'Fvt. Bob Timmel, once of Fort Sheridan and Camp McCoy, Wis., was there since he is now at the Chicago Induc­tion Board. Gsorge Gonyo, in naval uniform, was with him. Standinjr in line for tickets, up came Don Tiedemann of Fonda, la., who is now study­ing medicine at Loyola. He held up the line long enough to report that Bob\Flynn is living with him at Loyola. Hailing a taxi on busy Madison Street outside the Stadium was Jf>e Petritz, the sports publicator. looking more ambitious than ever. 
In front of me at church the other day was Lt. Col. Raymond J. Kelly, and Mrs. Kelly. . . . Col­onel Kelly is now heading an antiaircraft unit at Sheridan. After services, he reported that son Ra}*, *41, is helping to defend the Atlantic shores as an ensign and lives at Norfolk, Va. At a recent Holy Name gathering in Evanston, III., featuring the world-wide address of Archbishop Stritch of Chicago, Notre Dame men were again prominent. On one side of me was a Mr. O'Don­nell, who attended N.D. in 1902-03. v.hile on the other was Dick Connors of Brooklyn, not a Notre Damer but a No. 1 rooter of Eddie and Joe Sulli­van. Camille Hayes, *32, returned us to the sta­tion and Bob Lonergan, promoter de luxe of the current "Scholastic" staff, was awaiting a visit at Wilmette. III. 
Sgt. Bob Sanford, "Alumnus" chronicler for the Class of *41. can generally be,depended upon to help the feminine morale. The other night the Milwaukeean who recently hopped up to the rank of sergeant was morale-builder for one of Sheri­dan's most re<^nt newcomers—a WAAC. 
One of the latest to join to our contribution list, Corp. John Lnthrincer of Fort Benjamin Harri­son. Ind., reports: "I've just returned from a three-day pass on which I went back home to Petersburg, III., and while there I got to see the October and December issues of the 'Alumnus* and enjoyed reading them a lot. I went to the Army in August and came to Fort Harrison in Septem­ber. After my basic training, I was stationed here temporarily as a corporal instructor with this company. It's part of the Army finance School. Ken McNevin is also a corporal and an instructor in the company right next to me. 
**Frank Veit (the mad monsoon from Michigan) has just finished his basic training and is now going to finance school for several weeks. Danny Dnicran was here in October, also in the Finance school, and after his month's basic was sent to rdvanced finance school at Wake Forest. N. C. Veit tells me Jim Leising is stationed at Fort Niagara, N. Y. George Westcnberger is still a civilian, but is in the Air Corps Reserve, await­ing coll. Meanwhile he's keeping the wheels well oiled at Westenberger's Department Store in Springfield, 111. Horace McDonnell is in Navy V-7 at Columbia U.,—has been there since about Dec. 
1. Otto Bfolidor was married in November to his 
•steady,' Mary Lou, and both are very happy. Horace and Bob O'Hnra were both at the wedding up in Liberty\'ille, 111." 
TulsTi, Okla., is represented by this comment from John Devlin: "I know some of the boys will be glad to know something about us Tulsans. espe­cially since we had a non-defeated football team this year. [Written before Jan. 1]. . . . 
"Carl Senger, '37, has been reclassified and ex­pects to be inducted in January. Bobb}* Scigfried. '37, and wife are expecting another arrival soon. Bobby is a successful insurance man in IVlsa. By the time you receive this, I expect to be pacing the third fioor of St. John's hospital awaiting the arrival of our new 'roomer and boarder.* " [See "Births,** this issue—Eds.] 
Congratulations are certainly in order for big John Kovatdi, our grinning All-American end, who added to football laurels by playing with the sensational World Champion Washington Red­skins, conquerors of the Chicago Bears. Let Marine Private Kovatch take over: 
". . . Just one week after leaving school I got a job at Studebnker Aviation in South Bend as an airplane carburetor tester. Albert Plotkin worked there, as did Ed Fenlon. This was a sure defer­ment job for me, but I just couldn't stand sitting dowri? [Neither can I, John, — it's sort of a phy­sical impossibility]. I joined the Marines Sept. 1, 1942, in Chicago after the All-Star-Bears game. 
"Then began a wonderful three months in Washington, D. C, playing pro football for the Washington Redskins. Believe it or not I was the most valuable rookie and now I can say I am a member of the football'world champs. College ball can*t compare with pro football for fun and for cash dividends. I'll play pro ball until they throw me out. While I was in D.C. I was visited by Hike Hinea who came up from Quantico. He had just won his bars as a second lieutenant. The last I heard about him was that he was in Ireland. Jerry Clifford also got his commission. 
"On- Dec 21, I reached here, Parris Island, 

S. C , and since then I have been trying to become a Marine. We are just 'boots* now. A boot is the lowest rank in the Marine Corps. I can assure you that life at Notre Dame and football under Leahy surely prepared nie for this physical part of the program. Larry Sullivan is down here, as are a few "other N.D. men. It's^a funny thing but I got in a hut that houses two other journalists besides myself. One, Dan McGill, Jr., writes most of the articles about Frank Sinkwich.*' 
New flyers lor their country, all recently commissioned, are, left to right 2nd LieuL B«njamin D. Johnston* '37. Army; 2nd Lioni. Joseph T. Allard, ex. '43, Marines; Ensign Edward Hahecker, '40, Navy: 2nd Lieut John B. Murphy, ex. '41. Aimy; Ensign Edward J. 
Larldn, ex. '41, Nary; and Ensign Patrick Brennan, '40, Navy. 
A classmate on submarine duty. Ensiffn Frank O'Dowd, airmails this news, as of Dec. 8: 
"I was one of the many fellows who followed up that DVP offer that the Navy made out at school of last March. I got through aU the prelimi­naries all right and was ordered into the Com­munication branch during the summer. I reported for training up at Noroton Heights. Conn., and found one of my classmates was Tom Comeford. also of our class. We spent 30 days there and then were sent out on active duty. Tom received wonderful orders with four other officers and they took a Clipper overseas. I was assigned to this squadron but. until it was organized, I worked in the Communication office of the Commander Submarines, Atlantic Fleet, at New London, Conn. 
"When this unit got all ready, we too came overseas from where I am writing you now. The thrill of the whole trip was to arrive and find my buddy, Tom, waiting on the dock for me. He cer­tainly was the last fellow I ever expected to see after being sent into entirely different fields some months before. Tom is located about a mile from me, and we get together as often as our long hours permit us. We are both Communication Watch Officers with our respective units, 
"Tom just received the October issue of the *Alumnus* and we've had a *big week-end' finding out about all of the men of '42 and the other grads in service, too. While I was at New Lon­don I was near enough New York to drop down and look up some of our gang there. Unfortunate­ly, I jiouldn't catch Byron Kanaley but did drop over to have dinner with Charley Dcger at the Officers' Club at the Brooklyn Navy Yard.' Charley was on temporary duty over at the Supply School until they found room for him at the Supply School at Harvard. He told me Bud ShonvHn was in the same kind of spot out at Great Lakes; they planned to get together at Harvard around the end of November. 
"During the time that the 'Flying Irish' squad­ron was up at Glenview, I made several attempts to get together with them, for I was at home then, but they had such long hours that we never did make our appointments. The day before I left Chicago, I did see Paul KcUey and spent the afternoon and evening with him. He assured me they were all doing well up there and were in one barracks all by themselves. That must have been a riot- They're all down south now, and the only one I can give you any dope on is Larry Hickey who is stationed at the Naval Air Station at Jacksonville. Fla. There are probably others there with him." 
Carp. Frank Meehan, writing from the Edmon* ton Airport. Alberta, Canada, says: ". . . There are very few N.D. lads up here. I met two back in Great Falls, Mont.. Fred Voslewede, '41. and 
Jim Ferry. Both left for OCS. For my part I'm having a fine time and like the life in the Army very much. I got my notice in August. They sent me out to a Ferry Command Finance office back in the States and just lately (he wrote on Nov. 
22) have I come up here with the Transport Command Fiscal section. The work is interesting and up my alley. Made corporal a month ago so the pay is o.k. It's a bit rugged, though, for the temperature runs to 20 degrees below zero and we live in tents." [What, no dogsled, Frank?] 
Dean Clarence E. Manion's assistant in the law school, Mrs. Lorn Lashbrook, comes through with this fine reply to our request for comment: "Dick Swisher. Jim Neu, Jordan Hamel. Henry Ander­son, Bill Syrinff and John Speca are-engaged in general practice of law—Swisher with the firm of Haskins and Sells, accountants, in Chicago: Neu with the legal department of the Columbia Broadcasting Co.. New York; Hamel with the Trust department of a bank in Chicago; Anderson with a South Bend law firm; Syring with the legal department of the Internal Revenue Depart­ment ; Speca in private practice. Jirfin Verdonk and Alex Tsiolis are presently in Officers' Training School at Camp Custer, Mich., to be commissioned as MP officers. Ed Kelly is a yeoman in the Navy. stationed at Cincinnati, and Ward Rafferty, Joe Miller, Anthony Bernard and Jerry O'Dowd are naval officers on or near active duty. Miller and 0'Dow*d will graduate from the midshipmen's school here at Notre -Dame very soon. 
"The FBI accepted as special agents Robert E. Richardson for the Louisville office. John J. KiUcn whose assignment we have not learned. Jim Me-Goldrick in the Denver office, and William B. Mooney for the Springfield. III., office. Henry Schrenker is in the naval aviation service, having completed his training • at the Iowa Pre-Flight school. John Ward and Rccca Montesha are in the Army down in Texas, according to information given us by Roc's brother, Joe. James D. Lan­caster is now corporal in the Army somewhere on the west coast, and Ernest Timpani is in the Army but we don't know his location. Jack Barry is in South Bend after a visit at his Iowa home where he passed the Iowa bar exams, and is now-awaiting a call to the Army. Ed Porten and Al Bams are unreported to date. Pete Alonzi is in . the Naval Intelligence Service at Great Lakes, 111., while Mer\-in Bagan is somewhere in the reg­ion around South America, with the Navy. He paid the Law School a short visit after comple­tion of his training in the Communications Service in- Connecticut. He was an ensign. 
"Joe Barr is in the Marine Officers* training school, Quantico; Cecil Jordan is at Iowa Navy Pre-Flight school: J. E. Diver is in the Army on the west coast. Louis Anderson, J. C. Daner, L. 
i. Ferguson, R.' L. Fogarty. W. J. Hocan, Bill 
Hosiiuki» Lc» Lin ^ T D. Maker, and H. L. Mai> ray (on Jan. II) were either awaiting a call to military service or had been rejected for physical disability. Ted Freridu has been called to the Navy V-7 program at Northwestern. Jae LsTcry was inducted on Jan. 5 after enjoying his first visit with his son. bom Dec. 2, in Denver. J«e Lane, Fred Hosrer, Paal Kashmcr, Jerty KOB-crew and Gerard Fecncy were called by the Navy in December." 
That much-travelled South Bend "Tribune** news-chaser of our era, Pvt. Paal NeTiUe, has moved again. Here is his report from the Rich­mond. Va., Army Air Base: 
"Went from Denver the end of November to the Philadelphia Municipal airport. Had a great stay in Philly but on Dec. 19 was suddenly shipped down here. Was surprised when I arrived here to find that I was to work in the Public Relations office. Took over a mimeographed sheet, 'Hie Base Bawl,' when I arrived. A school teacher, bookbinder and lino^rpist had been putting it out and it was just about a bulletin and that's alL Negotiations are under way to publish a weekly printed paper. 
"Yesterday I ran into Gcorce Stratitu who's in the legal office here. A letter from Jess Saar ­land months ago said he was to get his bars at Monmouth, N. J. Don't know where T«a P*wen is: expect that he's in the Army. Remember tiny Bill Ford? He reported out at one of the Air Force tech schools in Denver. Joe Hrsdwrcc is there likewise and Emmett Keenan- is at Camp Bowie. Tex. Got an invitation to Joe Lane's Com­mencement and he's back in ' N.Y. now. Hear that Jim 0*Donolia« is wearing corporal's stripes and that he was at the Michigan game." 
Another of those civiliansi faithful correspondent Georce UU, checks in from Indianapolis: 
"I was in South Bend for the Michigan game and had quite a time. I mst Bill Blinces who is in South Charleston, W. Va., with Carbide and Carbon Chemical Corp. At the game I was sitting behind LMI P«dradi, pre-med, who is in dentis­try at Marquette U. With him was Bill Mutaa, who is a mechanical engineer for Carbide and Carbon. Also working for them, Hetk Nilles. whom I met later. In the caf was a tableful of chemists—Tom Schmidt and Gil Zimmerman, both working for U.S. Rubber in Mishawaka and having an apartment together. Armlnger Svmmeis was there. He's doing graduate work at schooL 
"Biggest surprise of all was Bill Yeacer* who is a government inspector for the Signal Corps. He's travelling quite a bit and arranged to inchide Socth Bend in his schedule. He says that Bcmie W»jcik is in Connecticut and is now engaged to Mary of St. Mary's. Later I met Jsha Tsw­Bicnant who is working in Cleveland. John Don­ndlr has enlisted In V-7. 
"I was at the Stanford game too, and I saw* J M Barr, Dan Holwell, who said that Jim O'Laaxhlin. Mike Hinea, Dan CoUinane and Ber­nie BfcKay were doing fine in the Marines, and Hank Dakm. Also ran across Johnny Peters who was then working at Fort Wayne, Ind., for West­inghouse. Fred Hoover and Johnny Wuertz were there, all set to go Victory Dancing. 
"By correspondence. I hear that John Costa, USN, is at the Northern Pump company. Minne­apolis ; Ckarlie Becker was at Na\T torpedo school; and I have an air mail letter from Ensign Eugene Hntmacker who is in Pearl Harbor. His address is: Degaussing Division. Pearl Harbor, T.H. Bert Crowley is working for Seagrams in Lawrence-burg. Ind.. making industrial alcohol. Likes it quite well, the job. Bob Finneran has enlisted in the Air Corps, I hear. Fred Trenkle writes that he and Andy Gorica have been to Erie. Pa., to visit Gordon Wilcox and John Hanifin who are with General Electric there. Trenkle also says that Leo Barky is in &" Na\-y communications school somewhere." 
Brother Aoreliu, C.S.C.» that big member of the Congregation and our class you'll all remember— he stretched € feet, 8 inches to give Dujarie the lofty advantages over all basketball competition last winter, is now at Cathedral High School, In­dianapolis. His comment: "Brother Fisher is now located at Holy Cross College, 4950 Dauphine St.. New Orleans. La. Brother Aqninas, formerly of Spooner. Wis., is in our midst here at Indianai>­olis so that the native soil is well represented." 
Jim Ferry wrote from Augusta, Ga,, nearly three months ago and just missed the December comment. He wrote: '"Rie 'Alumnus' arrived today and I almost became 'homesick* reading over re­ports of the boys. To help supplement Joe Rago­lia's sister's contribution of last month, I can now-Con Oct. 26) report that Joe is stationed here at Daniel Field as a phy-ed instructor. Joe told me that on Oct. 17 week-end he was in Jacksonville. Fla., and ran into Jim Bmtz and Herky Bereolos. I'd like to get Eddie Drake's address—excuse the writing, I'm squatting Indian fashion on my bed. It's an off day—rain." 
On fancy Jung Hotel stationery from New Orleans, comes a report from Corp. Bob Uhl, currently at Keesier Field, Hiss. He got a promo­tion, and was anxiously awaiting word on a fur­lough to hometown South Bend. He writes: "I am not waking up the bugler any more, although sometimes I work late enough that I could do so on my way to bed. I am working on the morning report which as you probably know is the his­tory of the organization as to what happens to its men, etc. I find it interesting work and we are always running into something new. although there is a lot of detail work that becomes rather trying at times. 
"I haven't heard from Backy Walters for some time but last I heard he had finished radio school at Ft. Monmouth, N. J., and had been transferred to Washington. D. C. as corporal technician. You may know that Ray Donovan is temporarily working for the South Bend 'Tnbune' on the night police beat, in addition to working out at school." 
Floyd (Slush) Bichards, the whiz of the air-lanes, broadcasts from Lawrence, Mass.: "I might as well start the New Year off right by writing and giving the dope from this part of continental 
U.S. as gathered from the wires of Grapevine Press. As for myself. I've been here on the an­nouncing staff of WLAW in Lawrence, Mass.. since graduation in September and the scarcity of 
N.D. men in this part of the country is appalling. ICy ex-roomie, Lee Barhy, is now Ensign Burby stationed in Connecticut, and Paul • (P.E.K.) Knowles, the Battle Creek Battler, is with the Provident Insurance Co., of Chattanooga. Tenn. 
"Went to Boston recently for a bit of theatre-going and met Ensim Francis Hanley who is better known to the boys as Mr. Hanley of the Art Department. Also seated up in those seats (AND I DO MEAN UP!) was our ex-ticket king. Bob CahilL '34, in the Navy blue. Man-o-man! it sure was great to talk over things and that we did. Has anyone heard of Chink Hoxan, Spaak O'Neil, our erstwhile prexy, Effie Qninn. or any other fourth floor Walsh boys? I've received a few lines here and there from your roommate. James Patridc O'LanchHn, and a Christmas card from Ed Dixon* sans address, but that's about all. 
"Hope this helps to fill the column a bit so until next time, remember that if you are in New England, turn your radio to 680 K c and follow the beam to 'Columbia's Voice in Northern New England.* " Sounds like Slush is plugging WLAW. 
The Arkansas Traveller—Leon Beaton, ex. '42. Christmas-cards from Washington, D. C , with this note: "If you are ever in Washington. D. C., look me up in Mr. Hoover's office." And Ptof. Paul Bartholomew, the political science czar, post­cards, "Jesse Satherland stopped to see me re­cently on his way to Dayton, O. He seemed fine. His address: 130 W. 4th O.T.S., Dayton Signal Depot, Dayton, O." 
In late November, too late for our edition, came a report from Green Way. Wis., and Coast Guardsman Jim McFadden. He witnessed the Michigan games. He writes: ".. . I have been studying navigation and I find the material un­usually hard to hang on to." More power to you, Jim. 
Another Marine officer has been commissioned— Baseball Captain Andy Chlebeck postcards from Quantico, Va., and adds some matter of social interest to St. Mary's "visitors." Lt. Andy writes: "I received my commission Dec. 28. New Year's Eve Joan A. Metzger and I w*ere engaged. She came down for my graduation and she is still attending St. Mary's College. This Marine life is swell as far as I'm concerned." 
That grand little man of the Administration Building—(Brother Angelas, C.S.C.—Brother Dome to so many) surprised us with a letter from Con­cord, N. H. He had a vacation and was visiting relatives around that part of the country—he planned to visit Lawrence, Mass. I wonder if he ran into Slash Richards. 
To Jim Hackner of LaCrosse. Wis., goes the distinction of being a Navy Anniversary Man. He reported to Columbia U., New York, on Dec 7—Pearl Harbor Day—to begin his V-7 Naval Officers' training. Bill Dooley, the Alumni czar, writes that Ensign Tom Teamey. having just been commissioned at Abbott Hall, was visiting the Alumni Office in late December. Tom was going into Diesel training in Berkeley. Calif. 
Whi le at Portage. Wis., during a Christmas visit, Tom Henney reported that Jim Hill, the engineering whiz, is currently at Seattle, Wash., halting there when plans for a jaunt to Alaska were changed. And Tom says Charley Lohr is still with the Studebaker plant in South Bend. while Jt^n (Mama) Claric is a recent addition to the ranks of the Army. George Sohck, along with ex-Notre Damers Eddie Riska, '41. and Boa­ter HiUer, ex. '43. is doing a fine job as giurd with the Great Lakes Naval Training basketball team. Three of the 12-man Great Lakes squad are Notre Damers. 
It was great to see the Class of '42 having the most contributors to the Alumni Fund, thou ^ not the biggest aggregate total. A little help from everyone, will keep the organization going. When you can. contribute. 
In the meantime, "If it's news—w*rite Scoop." And don't forget, YOU are news I 
THE WINNING SPARK 
Paragraphs from last letter of MATTY BYRNE, '42, to his parenU: 
*^ am anxious to get into action. Re­member that somebody other than the in­deinite *Geotce* of *let Georce do it* is gainff to have to ficht Ibis war. I don't think that either of yon realizes the issues that are at stake. I ask yon not to pray that 1*11 save my precioos skin, bnt that i n have the needed moxie when the time cames to do my job welL This war will nat be won by time alone, bat by fighting —the valdter we get going, the faster we win win. Delay and procrastination merely mid ta the saspense and the so^alled dara­tian. The American pablic is convinced we can*t Use, bat yet are doing very little to win. Maybe I'm wrong, bat they don't 
•eem
 ta have a firm grasp on the issues at 

•take.
 Hie 'business as uioal' attitude. 'strikes in key-plants,* etc, are enough proof tiut we're trying hard to beat oor­

•dves.
 Maybe they'll wake up when it's taa late. I've seen gats and spirit win many a faetball game for Notre Dame—this time it laoks as thoagfa the spirit is all on the side af the Japs. We*Te got everything we need to win except that spark that makes a winning machine." 


Howard Schcllenberg, Brooklyn, at last report was in officers' candidate school at Camp Barke­ley, Tex. Roy Marray, Butte, Mont., is an ensign in the Navy and is stationed at Morris Hall D­

''32, Soldiers Field Station, Boston. Ed Reidy. Lo­rain. O., is an aviation cadet stationed at the Naval Air Station in Corpus Christi, Texas, along with Bab Smith. Pvt. George Falrley, Pittsburgh, is now ser\'ing overseas with Co. D. 29th Engi­neers, APO 702, c/o Fbstmaster. Seattle. John Hartaun, Hamburg, N. Y., is a medical student at the University of Buffalo. Joe Hracfaovec, White River, S. D., is at the 4th Air Force Replacement Depot. Fresno, Calif. 
Dan Cannon, Queens Village, N. Y.. is stationed with the Army Air Forces at Chanutc Field, Ran­toul. III. Frank Thompson. Oswego, N. Y. is in the classification office at the Army Air Bnse, Salt Lake City. Utah. Larry Aabrey, Louisville, is serving in England with tlic armed forces. CpL Steve Bagams, South Bend, is a corporal in the Army stationed at Camp Callan, in San Diego, Calif. ITie San Diego "Union" recently carried a large spread concerning Steve's activi­ties, both athletic and military, since he landed at Callan. And it was really a blow for a guy who is doing a swell job, especially in training recruits in machine gun operation. Steve is mar­ried and has one child. Vince Shiely, St. Paul, Minn., is a student at Harvard ind is a volunteer worker at St. Benedict's Center at Cambridge. 
Ensign Art Pope is a seamanship instructor iii the-Naval Training School at .'Vbbott Hall. Chi­cago. Ensign Dan McNamara can be reached through Transient Officers Quarters, Norfolk, Va. Bcmie fibibach is a medical student at Colum­bia University. 
Ensign Bill Baader is stationed at Miami, Fla. Bab Matttwws, also an ensign, is at the sub­marine chaser training center in Miami. Don Mc-Nally is with the Third Fighter Squadron. Class 43-B, Moore Field, Texas. 

1943 Edwmrd C. Roney, 1723 Iroquois Ave., Detroit, Midi. 
From Ed Ronejr* who sets ofT to a. beautiful start on his new job: 
By this time most of us have experienced our first symptoms of "Graduation Blues" and would Rive a lot to be back with the fellows at Andy's. Rosie's, the Coffee Shop, or even just gathered in a room for a bull session. Well, this column is supposed to act as an antidote for those same "Blues" and it will—if we all do our share. This consists of sending to me all the news that you can corral about anyone and everyone in the class. Orders to active duty, ensagements, weddings, births, reunions, in fact anything that concerns the class—all are material for this column. Far­ther down you will find a plan for making our column the most complete and the class of '43 (or whatever we're to be called) the best informed class in the Alumni Association. 
But on to the news thus far. I looked at Alum­ni's mail Monday morning before leaving and in among all the Christmas cards and returned in­vitations there was an envelope addressed to John Joyce GilliKan, AS. U.S.N.R.. from you know where. No need in saying what that meant. When I got home that night I talked to Bill Fisher be­tween trains for Toronto and he said that Joe HiUehnnd had also been called. Ed Hickey had a surprise birthday party at his house on Jan. 6 and between him and Jim Byrne I found out that Bill McCaochey, Rose Commings, Bob McCafferty, Boh Timmcnnan. Chuck Kane, and Bill Fisher have all been keeping Joe and Jack company at Abbott Hall since Dec. 31. Also at Abbott Hall are: Henry Kane, Steve Ensner, Jim McEIroy, Bob Kashcrv, Jade Reis, Pat Donovan. Bob Sweeney, Bill Sullivan. Jerry Killigrew, Fred Hoover, Gerry Fceney. Chudc Kralovec, and Bill Ford. I'm sure that there must be many more there but I haven't heard anything about them. If one of them will drop me a line, their names will appear in the next issue. 
Dick Pohl was married on Dec. 26 to Marjorie Stock. Congratulations, Dick. Joe Trilling was supposed to be at the wedding. How about a word from you, Joe, re: the large event? 
Jim O'Donnell told me that Bill O'Neil hasn't been called up yet. Jim went to work for Haskins & Sells here in Detroit and was sent out to Kala­mazoo on field work. His family had hoped that he could stay home for a change. Don Miller's working in Chicago and dropping in on St. Mary's week-ends. 
To Boh Rogers. Bill O'ConnelU Frank King and others, thanks for the Christmas cards. 
From the "Detroit News," Jan. 11. "Cupid is calling signals for Notre Dame's 1942 football squad. Week ago Capt. George Murphy married Mary Katherine Miles. Last Saturday Lou Rymkus, tackle, married Betty Jane Widmoyer. of Nap­panee, Ind.. and Tom Brock, center, married Ruth Loseke, of Columbus, Nebr." Congratulations George, Tom, and Lou. 
I talked to Harry O'Hcalia before I left and he says Tom Maloney has been ordered to get a complete rest for six months with a good part of that time spent on his hack. Tom would appre­ciate hearing from all those of you who know hiro. His address is 133 South St.. Jersey City, 
N.J. 
Ed Cammings said a couple of nights before leaving that he had an extra special Christmas present for Miss Corel Hunter and told me I could "tell all" in this first issue. Christmas was a big day for Ed: it was his birthday and he be­came engaged. 
Another man that became engaged Dee. 25 was Frank Herbert. The girl: Miss Dorothy Koch of Woodhaven, N. J. Congratulations, to both Ed and Frank. 
George Coppin and Dorothy Donovan were en­gaged on Dec. 5. A lot of you probably never heard of this in the excitement of exams. 
Another thing that many of the class probably missed was the very quick exodus of Larry SaOi­van. Jerry Dunne, Boh Morrill, and Bill ScaUy. They received their Marine orders just before exams and were allowed to forego taking them so that they could have a few days before report­ing at Parris Island on Dec. 21. Bob and his wife hadn't been home since their marriage early in the semester. Walt Krawiec, Walt HcNaraara and Ed McKim are also at Parris Island 
Leo Keating contributes this written on Lufldn Rule Co. stationery: ". . . I'm working now but expect that the E.R.C. won't let me stay around much longer. The object of this letter is two­fold. First of all I'd like the addresses of Ed CUM­mings and Bob Carver. Secondly, I have just heard an item of news that may interest you. Chuck Bebcan, who was a • member of our class until the junior mid-year, was killed in a plane crash at Corpus Christi, Texas, yesterday. He was a Naval Air Cadet and went with the many other 
N.D. boys last spring." Thanks. Leo, for the news and for being the first of the class to write in some news. 
Talked to Don Miller down at school the week­end of the Jan. 16. He said Haskins & Sells has Fred Christman, Quence Sturm, Jim Girard. Pete Moritz and himself working hard out of Chicago. Pete has been sent to Omaha. Also said Tom Finncane is working for them in Kansas City; Art Keating and Bob Timmerman in New York; Fred Gore in Florida; and Walt Ivancevic in Pittsburgh. Bill Mengel is at Curtiss-Wright in Buffalo. 
The engagement of Blair HcGowan of Muskegon. Mich., and Jean Wyant of St. Mary's and Muske­gon was announced in Christmas holidays. 
I've thought for some time of the problem of getting news from the class. How does this plan sound? I have 294 names in my file of the class and intend to get more right along. If we list those class birthdays coming up between each issue it will give the friends of the birthday men a reason for writing them and giving them news. Then it will be the duty of the birthday men to write in and tell all they know, whether it's about themselves alone or about the entire class. 
Of course, I want to hear from everyone. So. even though you don't write any of the birthday men, drop me a penny postcard with anything you know. If each member of the class will do his part we can break Scoop Scanlan's and the class of '42's record of 2-2/3 pages, not once but every issue. Let's start off with a bang. The deadline for the following men is March 10 and their birth­days are: February—1. Mike Comerford; 2, Carl Coco; 3, Jack Edwards, Bill Olvany; 5, J»hn Schmid: 7. Jack Morrison; 8. Boh Gillette; 9. Ray MdUanus; 10. Irv Roscnhaum; 11, Tony Gin>> lami; 12. Bill Moorhead; 14. Boh Raaf; 21, fUk Dove; 22, John Rau; 23. Leo Raymond; 28, Dan Guiney; 29, Tom Brock. 
March—2. Carl Hciser. John Pcascnelli, Jack Reis; 3, Bill Clemens, Tom Farmer, George Hath, Bill O'Brien, Joe Roesch; 5, Bill Carroll, FeUx Ahaldo; 7, Clair Lambert. 
Sgt. Robert Bijur, who left Notre Dame over a year ago to enter the Royal Canadian Air Force, has been reported missing in action. Boh Cosgrove. South Bend, is now a sergeant in the Army Air Corps and has arrived safely in North Africa. 
NEVER TAKE THAT NEWS TO BED 
SIT DOWN FIRST AND WRITE TO-^D. 
THE COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS 
(Continued from page 6) 

ocracy needs the earnest, practical, whole-hearted, single-purposed coopera­tion of every unit of this national organ­ization. This means every citizen of this republic. That kind of an organization will win, and will win without waste of time. And that kind of an organization is an American organization. 
Single-purposed cooperation does not 

spell hysteria. Hysteria never puts over 
a job. The program I have outlined does 
not demand a let-up in the steady, whole-
souled grinding away at the tasks, the 
pursuit and accomplishment of which are 
necessary for our internal economic and 
social welfare as a nation. Keeping this 
nation on an even keel during these try­
ing times is an integral part of winning 
the war. 
Sometime,'soon, we pray to God—this 

war will end as other wars have ended. 
When that time comes, we don't want 
to take on where we left off, because 
we don't want to leave off. When that 
time comes, we want to find this na­
tion intact, progressing sanely under 
the Constitution with a high regard for 
the welfare of its citizens, and ready and 
willing to go forward, expending the ea­
ergy which it devoted to internal welfare 
during the war, supplemented once more 
by the energy it had devoted directly to 
the purposes of war. 
Democracy, the Brotherhood of Man 

For more than a century and a half we have thrived, as no other nation has thrived, upon the fundamentals upon which this republic was built. For goi­erations we will continue to thrive on these fundamentals, expanding our su­perstructure but always without hazard to our foundation. 
Using Notre Dame again as a symbol of sound education, I say let it carry on its training of men during the war with such limitations as war conditions must necessarily impose. Let it carry on this same training when the war is over, with expanding opportunities. 
What better support can a nation have than men and women trained in straight-thinking, grounded in morale, recogniz­ing the soul's dependence on the Creator, recognizing that there is no such thing as passive patriotism, that patriotism is an active pulsating love of country, which jealously guards those time-tried sacred principles which have given us liberty. 
War is a levder—^it is a patriotic stim­ulant. There is no snobbishness in a genuine patriotism. Democracy should be . a leveler—^its other name might well be the "Brotherhood of Man." 
BeliiwI the SaMiM 
«j^^»^^ 
(This space is contributed 
Physicists 

FEDERAL WAR AGENCIES require men and women trained in engineering, physics, metallurgy, meteorology, chemistry, and other fields. With American ideals at stake, your energies must be turned to war work. 
See the Civil Service Employment Opportunities at first- and second-class post ofHces. Ask for application blanks and send a record of your qualifications to the Commission today. 
U. S. CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION Washington, D. C. 
by the ALUMNUS to the Civil Service Commission) 








