The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
,i
^r^ 

^1^­
fl4% r.. i ' 
^ tti^*'"'i^.^ta *Tni* 


IT; Notre Dame Alumnus 
-'*^:« 

^4m> 

w *§;' «r ft 
.^wpi^tfi'  
MAY, 1934  \^M  if  
> *^ 1 .  i*-'  •t  
i^l^l 1/ ^  '^  '  W^^iT'^  *^**  
r* \.-i^.^j^^?<fcr  ^7n^5yf~5?^?.;i!;.v'^:;!i'r;.vviA»^^v^^.--^gt;> L^:?-;­  ~«A.^..it.  

May, 19Si
THE NoTEE DAME ALUMNUS 
Exigencies of brief visits have valuable trees in our search for 
CCiHMENT 
January to Jime, in addition to breaking numerous weather records, has brought a similar period of new highs and lows to the Alumni Office. So that the "lows" will not be perma­nent, a word of explanation seems in order. 
Probably there has not been a per­iod when so much mail was unac­knowledged for such long periods. The activity which produced the mail also produced conditions which made adequate attention to it a matter of delay. This is particularly unfortun­ate in an organization whose nature demands the use of the mails for the bulk of its business. It is a "low" which is deplorable, and deplored. 
• Similarly, a number of contacts have suffered. Visitors to the Alumni OlBce, returning alumni and campus residents, have never been told so consistently that "He's out." This too is a regrettable "low" of these Spring months. 
Where visits have been made to alumni groups, many alumni who could not meet at the rather arbi­trary times and places which circum­stances dictated were missed by the delegate. This is another "low" to be condemned. 
The ALUMNUS, instead of holding the mirror up to nature in the order­ly and intelligent manner of the heli­ograph, has flashed more after the fashion of the practical but erratic nose-powdering instrument of the ten-cents-a-dance intermissions. An­other "low" which is a source of gen­uine regret. 
But all is not 'black as the night from pole to pole.' 
Fortunately, we who are guilty of the above "lows" believe that the pendulum theory or the silver lining hypothesis can still be proved. 
For example, while more mail has been unanswered, more alumni have been visited than ever before during a remotely comparable period, with more information acquired than could be had from enough mail to solve the postal deficit. 
While the returning alumni have found the professional hosts of the Alumni Office absent, the glad hand has gone further afield than ever be­fore. Mahomet has quit waiting for the mountain. 

caused us to miss many familiar shrubbery. friends in Club centers, but on the ' 
But bear with us. 

other hand Club centers never before visited have become personally famil­
This is experiment. This is a seek­iar to the central office, and
 men ing. We are young. 
 We are new. known heretofore only as signatures 
Happily, indications point to the now are identified ultimate lightness of our direction. 
 by the Bertillion system. We have frequently found our­selves on the same trails as those The ALWINUS, while it has suf­whose scent is keener. fered from absentee editorship these 
This Commencement finds our firstfew moons, is promised the profit intensive period of activity closing. It that comes to any author who knows is too soon to gauge our results. In whereof and of whom he speaks. 
fact, both happily and unhappily, they can never be subjected to rule Also, v.-e have been perhaps a bit or caliper. It is a sowing whose reap­guilty of the prodigal measures that ing, comes in far places and strange mark the paths of pioneering. In seasons. 
promotional activities, we have un­
doubtedly showered barren ground In God, and in the judgment of our while fertile fields remain untilled. contemporaries, we trust. And in the We have possibly hacked and hewn fruits of our respect for both. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
The magazine is published monthly dorinE: the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is 52.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of SS.OO include a year's subscription to THB ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame, Indiana, under tie Act of March 3. 1879. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame. Indiana. 
MEMBER OP THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
MEMBER OP THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTEE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, Secretary-Treasurer WILLIAM E . DOOLEY, Assistant Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
BYRON V. KANALEY, '04 ------- Honorary President 
M. HARRY MILLER, 'lo ----------- President FRANK C. WALKER, '09 ------- First Vice-President ARTHUR E . C.IRMODY, '15 ------ Second Vice-President JOHN F . O'CONNELL, '13---- Director EoBERT E . LYNCH, '03 Director HUGH A. O'DONNELL, '94 Director FRED L . STEERS, '11 Director FRANCIS A. WERNER, '33-------(one year) Director CLARENCE MANION, '22 (ex officio) Director 





TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
May, 1934 No. 8. 
voi.xn 
Color And Dignity Mark Ninetieth Commencement Program 
Apostolic Delegate and Frank C. Walker, '09, Head Brilliant Personnel of Week-End Events; 551 Senior* to Benefit; Alumni Interests Predominate; New Features Attracting Large Attendance 
BULLETIN! As the last form of the ALUMNUS is ready for the press, the announce­ment comes from Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., vice-president of the University that the following distin­guished men will receive the honor­ary degree of doctor of laws at the June Commencement: The Honorable Cordell Hull, Sec­retary of State of the United States. The Most Reverend John M. Mac-Namara, D.D., Auxiliary Bishop of Baltimore. Frank C. Walker, '09, Executive Director of the National Emergency Council. Doctor Maurice Goldblatt, director of the Wightman Memorial Art G'al­lery at Notre Dame. 
Alumni have never made a mistake in returning to enjoy the brilliance of Notre Dame at Commencement. 
As always, the University extends its hospitality in providing rooms on the campus. Classes before 1920 will find the beautiful Alumni Hall wel­coming them. Classes from 1920 on vnU occupy Morrissey. Dillon this year is reserved for the large number of clergy and special guests who mil come to participate in the visit of the Apostolic Delegate. The University will also provide the splendid Alumni Banquet on Saturday night, June 2, which has become so strong a tradi­tion. 
Alumni golfers will battle for the graduate crown on the beautiful 18­hole William J. Burke-University course on the campus. 
Reunions will bring together a nucleus of lively alumni from all parts of the country. The Class of 1929, one of the. liveliest of the younger classes, is coming in record numbers. The Silver Jubilee Class of 1909 has, in addition to an active and interested personnel, the unusual in­centive of one of its members as the Commencement Orator, the Hon. Frank C. Walker. The Golden Jubi­lee Class of 1884 is joined in the Dix combination by 1881, 1882 and 1883 to make a substantial group of "vet­erans." The prominent Classes of 1900, 1901, 1902 and 1903, and the post-War classes of 1919, 1920, 1921 and 1922 supply through the Dix plan other organized groups of interest and intensity. 
Of specific interest this year is the Commencement Show. Through ill­ness in the faculty of the Depart­ment of Speech, the regular- produc­tion of the University Theater, 
Most Rev. Amleto Giovanni Cicog­
•na7ii,Apostolic Delegate, who tuill preside at Commencement. 
planned f6r Commencement, was cancelled. In its place, Prof. Vincent Fagan has been placed in charge of a show which promises to be one of the most interesting productions from the alumni angle of any since the days when drama was written for all campus occasions. That is the case this year. The wealth of campus tra­dition has been opened to the drama­tic "brain trust" of the campus, whose pens may wish to sign Anony­mous, and hence go unnamed here till further conference. But the "Shades of Notre Dame" will present pictures that can best be appreciated by the men whose memories of the University go back. Because of this particular appeal, the show will be played Saturday Night in Washing­ton Hall, and the Alumni Banquet will be speeded up so that the alumni can iind in this production a program that should be more vivid by far than 
the word-pictures usually painted. 
Notre Dame is playing host on 
Saturday afternoon, June 2, to Cath­
olic high school track stars in the 
First Annual Notre Dame Catholic 
Interscholastic Track and Field 
Meet. This colorful event promises 
to become a highlight in Catholic in­
terscholastic activity, and a campus 
event of increasing interest. Clubs 
or alumni who can interest Catholic 
high schools or their track men in 
this first meet will be doing a splen­
did thing for everyone concerned. For 
•instance, Franklyn Doan, '29, former track man himself, suggested that re­turning alumni, where they are driv­ing and have the room, might provide transportation for these high school athletes, since expense is the big item in handicapping entries. 
Along athletic lines, too, baseball fans will have two excellent games, on Friday, when Wisconsin meets 
N.D. on Cartier Field, and on Satur­day when Michigan State sends its, scrappy nine into local action. 
Monogram men will hold their an­
nual Reunion, mth the annual lunch­
eon set for Sunday noon. 
If one of the highlights seems to 
have been relegated to remote men­
tion, it is only because the simple 
announcement that the Apostolic 
Delegate, His Excellency Amleto Gio­
vanni Cicognani, will grace the Com­
mencement is sufficient in itself. That 
Notre Dame and Notre Dame men 
hail this honor with all its signifi­
cance requires no further comment. 
With its religrious background go­ing back to Marquette and the pioneer missionaries who had hal­lowed this site long before permanent settlement, Notre Dame has always been outstanding for its Catholicity. Notre Dame men remember the beau­tiful ceremonies that mark all the ob­servances of the Church. The Solemn Pontifical Mass at Commencement has been a common denominator of every class. The presence of the Dele­gate this year will once more bring this final gesture of all that is solemn and beautiful in the Church to a group of men who have found in Notre Dame education the Church of Reason as well as of Beauty and Solemnity. 
May, 19S4.

THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
THE GENERAL PROGRAM OF THE 

NINETIETH ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, JUNE 1, 2 AND 3, 1934 
(Central Standard Time) 

3:00 P.M. Michigan State College vs. Notre Dame. Baseball Cartier Field 

Alumni Registration, Aiurani Hall for Classes before 1920. 
Friday, June 1 

6:00 P.M. Annual Alumni Banquet-

Morrissey Hall for Classes of 1920 and after. 
_East Hall of the University Dining Halls Alumni Office for Alumni Not Residing in Halls 
(A Business Meeting Will Follow the Banquet.) The Alumni Golf Tournament Will Begin Friday for Tliose Alumni 
7:00 P.M. University Band Concert Main Quadrangle 
Returning. Tournament on the 18-Hole William J. Burke-Universily Course on the Campus. 
8:30 p. M. "Shades of Notre Dame"_ -Washington Hall 
12:45 P. M. Presidents Address to the Class of 34 (Private) (Because of the nature of the show and its alumni 
Washington Hall interest, this performance will take the place of the program usually following the Banquet.) 
2:00 P.M. Wisconsin vs. Notre Dame, Baseball Cartier Field 
6:00 P. M. Reunion Dinners (Arranged by the Classes) Reunion 
Sunday, June 3
Classes this Year Are: 1884 (50-Year), 1909 (25­Year), and 1929 (5-Yeai), and the Dil Classes 
8:30 A.M. Academic Procession _

1881-82-83 and the 50-Year Class of •84; 1900-01­
.Main Building to the University Gymnasium 

02-03; 1919-20-21-22. 

9:00 A.M. Solemn Pontifical Mass University Gymnasium 7:00 P.M. Univereity Band, Concert on Main Quadrangle 
Celebrant, His Excellency, the Most Reverend Amieto 
8:15 P.M. University Glee Club, Concert in Washington Hall. Giovanni Cicognani, D. D., Apostolic Delegate to the United States. 
Baccalaureate Sermon, His Excellency, the Most Reverend John M. McNamara, D. D., Auxiliary 
Saturday, ]une 2 


Alumni Registration Continues in Residence Halls 
Bishop of Baltimore. Alumni Golf Tournament Continues on University Course Music by the Moreau Seminary Choir. 
8:00 A. M. Mass for Deceased Alumni Sacred Heart Church Mass Will Be Followed by the Blessing of the Senior Flag. 
9:30 A. M. Last Visit, Class of 1934 (Private). 
11:00 A.M. Raising of (he Senior Flag Main Quadrangle 

-Sacred Heart Church 
10:00 A. M. Class Day Exercises, Award of Honors 12:00 M. Monogram Men's Luncheon University Dining Halls Washington Hall 
4:00 P.M. Awarding of Degrees University Gymnasium Commencement Address, the Hon. Frank C. Walker, 11:00 A. M. Fifth Annual Council of Local Alumni Clubs 

'09. Executive Director of the National Emergency 
Law Building Council. 

2:00 P.M. First Annual N. D. National. Catholic Inter­scholastic Track and Field Meet Cartier Field Music, by the University Band. 
the gathering behind the scenes. 


GLEE CLUB TRAVELS EAST AT EASTER 
It would have been nice to stay in BILL AYHES, '34, Business Manager of the Glee Club Hartford for a longer period but in order to make train connections in The annual Easter tour of the Uni­
coast-to-coast network at 5:15. The New York, it was necessary to roll versity's Glee Club has come and officials of the company spoke highly out at six Wednesday morning and of Professor Casasanta and the club be on the road by seven. All the way 
gone. Forty singers under the guid­
to ,TJtica, New York where the train 
ing hand of Conductor Joseph J. Cas­and many favorable comments came in from radio listeners. arrived at six that evening, the glee­
asanta left the campus on Good Fri­
Everyone was awake and on the sters (as some individual has named 
day and pulled up in the Grand Cen­tral Station in New York City the bus Tuesday morning at nine o'clock them) recounted the stories of par­for the run up to Hartford, Con­ties after the concert on the pre­
following morning. The Hotel Mc-Alpin provided the little used head­necticut where an audience of 2,200 vious night. Charlie Hitzelberger, 
quarters for the men during their applauded the efforts of the singers '32, met the fellows in Utica and took in Bushnell Memorial Hall. Bill Mur­charge of dispatching them to private 
lark in the metropolis but some of the group did not stay in long enough to phy, '33, and a member of last year's homes. Dr. John Kelley, '22, was club, came back stage during inter­general chairman of the committee in 
greet Bob Nesbit, '33, Dan Rolf, '33, 
and Jerry Parker, '30, all former mission and of course there was the charge of the concert, and had the glee clubbers, the latter being the usual amount of gaiety, hand-shaking auditorium of Our Lady of Lourdes and back-slapping. Ted Eourke, *24, High School practically filled. John 
Business Manager in the '29-'30 out­
John Robinson, '28, and Charles Farr, '29, and Bob Berg' ex. '34, 
fit. Sight seeing tours were quite popped in to shake hands at the end 
the thing during the three day stay Grimes, '20, renewed acquaintances 
with Joe Casasanta before the con­of the program which was followed 
but for the most part, the snooping was carried on in small groups or in­cert; and Vince Turley, '32, Clete by a dance. That broke up at mid­
dividually. LjTich, '22, and Dave Hayes, '21, night but the parties didn't. All the dropped back to see the gang at the hosts called their charges at 6:30 
Late Monday afternoon, the men conclusion of the program. Jim Thursday morning to catch the 8:00 met at the Columbia Broadcasting Curry, '14, and Tom Curry, '14, the o'clock train for South Bend where Studios on Madison Avenue to re­men who did a great deal to make the the raspy-throated men arrived at hearse for their program over a concert possible were prominent in 11:00 that night. Then they slept. 
Afoy, 19S4. THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 221 

Alumni Office Completes Record Club Visits 
Dooley and Armstrong Cover 40 Clubs; Faculty Members Visit 8; Interest Higb, Activities Effective; Progmm Progressing; New Clubs Organize; Much Remains to Be Done — Possibilities Just Unfolding. 
Pai'don condensed space in this re­port of the travels of the Alumni Office representatives along a plan similar to that recorded in the April ALUMNUS. The work done and the men co-operating were just as effec­tive. But Commencement casts such an immediate shadow, that time and space stand suspended in other fields. 
ARMSTRONG 

PITTSBURGH 
This is the simplified saga of Arm­strong, i-esuming in Pittsburgh, on Universal Notre Dame Night, April 16, what had ended in Washington on March 24. Two high school visits in Pittsbm-gh preceded the evening meeting—one to the Central Catho­lic H. S., where roll call sounded like the N. D. alumni roster, with O'Tooles and O'Donnells in evidence. Brother Francis, principal, called the senior boys together for an assembly. The other visit was to St. Mary of the Mount High School, where an assem­bly of the entire high school was kindly called by the Mother Superior. In the evening, the Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania gathered in force at the Commodore, one of Pitts­burgh's newest establishments, for a dinner in observance of N. D. Night. Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell was the "fixer" for my high school visits. 
YOUNGSTOWN 
Pittsburgh to Youngsto^vn—^\vhere John Moran had a lively program lined up, including visits to Rayen, Ursuline, East and South high schools. Ursuline very kindly called an assem­bly of the boys and gave a most cor­dial reception. Similarly, the heads of the public schools were most co­operative. An alumni dinner at Mc­Web's in the evening followed a ride to Sharon, Pa., with Norm Smith, just missing the high school closing session there. The dinner, at Mc­Web's, brought together a fine crowd, including George Prokop, former baseball star, and John Buckley, who was suffering the final stages of a scarlet fever exile from his home. Tom Enright, Red Kane, Johnny Moran, and Norm Smith bore the brunt of the visit, nobly. 
AKRON 
Youngstown to Akron far into the night—^there to be met in the dew of the mom by the genial Joe Kraker and launched on a most profitable and busy day among the preparatory circles of Akron. Spoke to an as­sembly at St. Mary's H. S., and vis­ited both North and South High Schools. In the afternoon had the pleasure of addressing the Juniors and Seniors of St. Vincent's H. S. Was introduced by Pres. John O'Neil of the Senior Class, in the absence of Father ScuUen, who was enjoying a trip abroad. The Akron Club met for its delayed U.N.D. Night dinner in the German Club. A fine and in­formal feast was followed by games, as the best party write-ups have it. (The writer rallied and with the hos­pitable leniency of Ed Raub, Tim Rauh, Chick Doran, Frank Doan and Frank Steel, appeared in Toledo with a shirt.) Enjoyed a visit with Art Keeny and Paul Tobin after the din­ner. Discovered I could take a sleeper out of Akron for Toledo, and did so. 
TOLEDO 
In Toledo, Fred Sprenger and John Hurley saw to it that I made the rounds, an alumni meeting being in­advisable because of the immediate and very successful meeting on 
U.N.D. Night when Coach Chet Grant had won the Toledo alumni and guests to the "new deal" at Notre Dame. An assembly of more than 200 boys at Central Catholic High School was called by Father Kirsch, and a splendid reception extended. Lunched at the Commodore Perry with Fred, John Hurley, Ben Kesting, Joe Wetli, and several other of the boys who had a chance to drop in early—the Catholic Central, appoint­ment rushing us away at an early hour for a luncheon. 
DETROIT 
On to Detroit for my initial visit to that active N.D. center, meeting the date of the N.D. Glee Clvib Con­cert there. Gil Schaefer undertook the task (sic) of getting me around the city, visiting De La Salle high school and St. Joseph's Commercial Institute, being vouched for to the good Christian Brothers at both schools by Marce Verbiest. We stopped at Catholic Central but 
school was just out, as was also the case at-Holy Name Institute, con­ducted by the Basilian fathers under the direction of Father Whelan. Out at the U. of Detroit I enjoyed a visit with Harvey Brown in his nearby of­fice, with Jay Maley, alumni secre­tary at the University, and with Bud Boeringer, who was running the boys through Spring paces in the absence that day of Gus Dorais. In the eve­ning, at the Catholic Women's League, the Club, acting with the Junior Catholic League and the St. Mary's alumnae dub of Detroit, sponsored a concert by the Notre Dame Glee Club, which was splendid­ly given and as splendidly received • (I can speak as an unbiased critic— it was the first time I'd heard them in formal concert for several years). Jack Higgins was doubly efficient in his role of Club president and local promoter for me. Saw a great many alumni lending their support to the program. The Club had decided to hold an informal UJI.D. Night meet­ing at the Book-Cadillac in spite of the Glee Club concert the same week. This was attended by a small but sat­isfied group. 
LOUISVILLE 
Returned to Notre Dame just long enough to look with dismay at the unanswered letters and then drove to Louisville for a delayed visit to the schools and the Club there. Fortu­nately, my arrival was indefinite. But Bill Reisert started me out the next morning early and we had very pleas­ant assemblies at Manual, Louisville Male High and addressed four sec­tions of the Seniors of St. Xavier's. After this strain on the vocal chords and Bill, we adjourned to the Louis­ville-Columbus ball game before the time for the dinner in the evening at the Kentucky. There, a group gath­ered in spite of the very recent 
U.N.D. Night and the impending Derby. 
Back to South Bend but on the same night to Jackson, Mich., for the start of a week's tour in Southwest­ern Michigan. 
JACKSON 
Lester Wisda had made arrange­ments in Jackson at St. John's High School where an assembly greeted me on Friday afternoon. Riday morning, Fr. Cullinane and Sr. Mar­
222 THE NOTSE DAME ALUMNUS May, 19SJi 
ian kindly interrupted the Senior boys physics at St. Mary's while I talked there. In the evening, Jim Henley, busy but happy and healthy (then) between his labor papers and his CWA administrative work, bought a dinner for seven alumni at Wolfe's. His kindness was poorly rewarded by an auto accident the following day which had him temporarily in the hos­pital. The Jackson group, on check­ing up those present and those ac­counted for, decided upon the organ­ization as soon as possible of a Club. 
BATTLE CREEK 
In Battle Creek on Monday, stopped just long enough to address an assembly in St. Philip's High School, arranged by Harold Stein­bacher, who was busy at the polls that day on the Michigan bond vote. Then on to Kalamazoo. 
KALAMAZOO 
In the Celery Cit>% Dr. John T. Bums had very kindly arranged an assembly of the boys of St. August­ines's Senior Class. Following this, Mrs. Bums took Mrs. Armstrong and me out to Nazareth, where two of the Bums youngsters are in school. We enjoyed a very thorough and hos­pitable visit to the academic and col­lege departments of this lovely school and met a number of the gracious Sisters in charge. Then we came back to the Bums home for a dinner with Dr. and Mrs. Burns and Mr. and Mrs. William Carrico, Mr. Canico being a brother of the present Direc­tor of Studies, Rev. J. L. Carrico, C.S.C. 
GRAND RAPIDS 
We had to depart too hastily from this pleasant evening to make Grand Rapids, where George Ludwig and the champion arranger, George Jack­oboice, were waiting with the itiner­ary for Wednesday and Thursday. For its size. Grand Rapids is one of the most high-schooled cities in the United States, and George Jacko­boice had arranged engagements with them all. From 8:30 Wednesday un­til 3:00 on Thursday we visited and were most cordially reecived by stu­dents and faculties of South High, George Davis "Vocational and Techni­cal High School, Grand Rapids Jun­ior College, Union High School, Cath­olic Central (which is graduating its largest Class this year). East Grand Rapids High School, Ottawa Hills High School, Central High School (where George and I listened to Carveth Wells the explorer with the rest of the students), Catholic Junior College (where Dr. Burton Confrey is the efficient dean) and Creston High School. Also, on Wednesday, from 4:00 to 6:00, we interviewed students in the Knights of Columbus parlors. The program was so thor­ough and so heavy that it left me with no time to see alumni by day and no strength by night. 
LANSING 
In fact, I arrived on the steps of St. Mary's High School in Lansing just as the good Sr. Loretto had come out to reconnoiter, hastening in with her to address the boys and girls of the school. In the afternoon I spent several very pleasant hours at the annual College Day of East-em High School. 
So, back — with correspondence from January, when the great trek started, staring at me from the desk, Commencement in the immediate of­iing, but, we trust, more alumni met and visited with than our world had previously dreamed of, more interest in the relationship of alumnus to pro­spective student, to present student and to Notre Dame. If so, pardon your unanswered letter. Come back to Commencement. 
DOOLEY 
Herewith the Dooley Doings on a Middle West tour beginning April 16 and ending May 1: 
MILWAUKEE 
Tom Kelly, '18, prominent Milwau­kee attorney, was the chief arranger, guide and advisor during my two days in Milwaukee, April 16 and 17. He did a remarkably fine job of it, too, and devoted many hours out of his busy day to helping and enter­taining me. We visited Messmer, Ca­thedral and Pio Nono, among the Catholic high schools, and Milwaukee Country Day, Bay View and Wash­ington among the others. Freddie Miller, '29, accompanied us to Mil­waukee CD., his alma mater. I had a very kind invitation there, from A. 
G. Santer, headmaster, to address the student body next Fall. 
Tom had made contact with all other likely public high schools. Some had reported "no boys interested." Others wouldn't admit college repre­sentative on short notice. Nearly all had made announcement of my pres­ence in the city and some of the boys came to the hotel to see me. 
We called on, and had a very pleasant visit with, Francis C. Eose­crans, life advisement director of all Milwaukee public high schools. We also called on Rev. Joseph F. Bar­bian, who is in charge of all Catho­lic schools in the Milwaukee arch­diocese. I attended a splendid Uni­versal N.D. Night dinner, of which more in the club section of this issue. 
GREEN BAY Levi Geniesse, '24, was the efficient gereralissimo in Greeii Bay on April 18 and he proved to have a little dope that Poch never though of. We got around to the two high schools in the morning, East High and West High, and were received very cordially in both places. Later in the morning. His Honor, the Mayor, John V. Diener, '09, gave us the keys of the city in his office and took us to lunch. Present at the key-giving ceremony were Bobby Lynch, '03, state repre­sentative, and Harold Londo, '24, as­sistant city engineer, as well as Levi and I. Mayor Diener, Londo, Geniesse and I stopped in the afternoon to call on the director of Catholic schools in the Green Bay dioecse, and on the diocese director of charities. We ex­pected to stop at Bishop Rhode's home also, but he was out. We drove out a few miles to St. Norbert's Col­lege and High School at DePere and had a very pleasant visit with Father Keefe, the rector, and Dan Williams, '31, and Emil Telfel, '31, of the fac­ulty. I also stopped in to see Mr. Engels, the genial father of a long line of Notre Dame Engels'. I learned that the present year is the first since 1918 that there hasn't been an Engels boy in school at Notre Dame. 
The Green Bay Qub had its U.N.D. Night dinner that evening. For the glad details, see the club section in this issue. 
ST. PAUL and MINNEAPOLIS 
Gene O'Brien and Jack Yelland, officers of the Twin Citj' club, and Jerry Conway, St. Paul advertician, steered me around the Twin Cities on my high school calls on April 19 and 20. My sincere thanks here for their remarkable accomplishments. 
With Jerry I stopped in to see the very cordial superintendent of St. Paul schools. With his advice and help I called on Mechanic Arts and Central high schools in St. Paul. My presence at the Lowry Hotel was an­nounced in the other public schools of the city and my presence in the Andrews Hotel in Minneapolis, where I spent the week-end, was likewise announced in the public high schools there and in some of the churches. 
The Christian Brothers, with their traditional generosity and kindness, allowed me to speak in both their 
(Continued on Page 224) 

Majf, 19S4 223 
THE NOTRE DAME ALTJMNUS 
FIND RARE PAPERS IN UNIVERSITY ARCHIVES Fli^e! 55 Years Ago 
Unpublished documents on the fa­mous Don Didier of the Scioto Eiver Settlement have been brought to light at the University according to an announcement by the Rev. Thom­as McAvoy, C.S.C., University ar­chivist. 
These and other papers bearing on early American Catholic history are among the rapidly increasing fruits of the work now being carried on in the archives of the University. This will be heartening news to those stu­dents of American history who have been awaiting the reopening of the archives for research. 
The 400,000 or more letters and documents housed in the archives constitute undoubtedly the richest collection of such material in Amer­ica, and it is the hope of the Univer­sity, expressed by Father McAvoy, to be able to make them available for consultation within a few years. Much of this material is private and confidentialand cannot be opened to the public, but documents which by nature and content belong to the pub­lic will be made available as soon as circumstances permit. 
Just how much effect the new Didier material will have upon the history of the French settlement in Ohio cannot be determined now, but it is thought that some of the docu­ments will alter considerably the later history of the French Benedic­tines. Other important findings of the archivists relate to the early mis­sionary endeavor in the lower Missis­sippi valley. Besides this, letters have been found in the Orestes A. Brownson papers offering a new viewpoint for the study of the inner life of Bro^vnson. -Another series of letters gives new facts on the pre-Sorin history of the Notre Dame country. Notre Dame was founded by the Very Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C. 
Father McAvoy stated that the new discoveries will be given to the pub­lic as soon as the work in the ar­chives has progressed sufficiently to allow publication of all the docu­ments on a given subject. At pres­ent a calendar and dictionary card catalogue of pei-sons, places, and sub­jects is being catalogued at the rate of 300 letters a month. 
Father Mc.A.voy is carrying on his work with the assistance of the Rev. Frederick T. McKeon, C.S.C, Ph.D., and six student secretaries. 
The Notre Dame archives had as its nucleus the papers collected by the late James Famum Edwards, for many years librarian and professor 
"Shades oF Notre Dame" 

Recent announcements make even more appealing to alumni the Com­mencement show, "Shades of Notre Dame," which is to be presented in Washington Hall on Saturday eve­ning, June 2. 
Places and events which are a part of Notre Dame stories and traditions will be featured. You'll see Brother *'Leep's" store, with its lemonade and "fours," for instance, not to men­tion Louie Nickel's famous South Bend hostelry. An actual occur­rence in a front line World War dug­out will be dramatized for you with the assistance of Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C, a War chaplain and one of the occupants of the dugout. 
Professor Vincent Fagan is in gen­eral charge of the show. Assisting him in preparing the material are Father Walsh, Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C, Dean James £. McCarthy, Professor Norbert Engels, and Assistant Coach Chet Grant. 
The musical direction of the show is being handled by Professor Joseph 
J. Casasanta who is arranging and transposing many original numbers for presentation by members of the Glee Club and the Notre Dame Col­legians, campus dance orchestra. 
Professor Frank Kelly, with many highly successful Commencement pro­ductions to his credit, is directing the staging and dramatic phases of "Shades of Notre Dame." He will present some of the best known cam­pus actors. 
All of which comprise one more potent reason for "coming back" this year. 
of history at the University. While American Catholic historical research was in its infancy and much valuable material was being burned or de­stroyed. Professor Edwards spent his vacation periods traveling about the country looking for these castaway treasures. 
He deserves recognition, in the opinion of Father McAvoy, with John Gilmary Shea and Martin I. Griffin, both of whom he assisted in many ways, as one of the three great pio­neers of American Catholic histoiy. 
The following story, appearing in the South Bend Tribune for April 23, 1934, not only presents a graphic ac­count of a terrifying disaster but also emphasizes the faith and cour­age which have made the present world famous Notre Dame arise, first out of a wilderness and then out of smoke and ashes: 
"A wild tocsin of alarm leaped from the belfry of Sacred Heart church on the campus of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame 55 years ago this morning and swiftly from lip to lip spread the cry: 'The college is on fire!' 
"Without premonition of any sort, at 11 o'clock one Wednesday morn­ing, flames were seen on the top of the administration building. Students rushed here and there, carrying prized belongings out of their rooms, trying to save precious articles from the conflagration, forming iirelines, passing buckets of water furiously in a vain effort to quench the flames on the sixth floor near the great, golden dome. 
"Neighbors for miles around—^the flames could be seen from a great distance—took water and hoses and assisted in the salvaging work. The South Bend volunteer fire department arrived on the run. 
"In three hours the devastation was complete, despite the frantic efforts to put out the flames. As one chronicler writes, 'When the fire had reached its height, only a deluge from the city standpipe would have subdued those fierce flames.' By three o'clock that eventful Wednes­day afternoon the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C, president of the university, and his little band of religious and lay professors who had struggled for 40 years to establish an institution of higher learning in the Indiana wil­derness, saw their hopes and their labors vanish. But before the smoke had ceased, the undaunted founder began to rebuild the stricken college." 
Among the projects now contem­plated by the archivists are the pub­lication of valuable French and Span­ish documents dealing with early Louisiana which are being tran­scribed and translated by Father Mc­Keon; the preparation of a new study of Brownson treating the char­acter of the man himself; a study of Archbishop John Lamy, the historical actuality of Willa Gather's "Arch­bishop"; and the collection of mate­rial for a centennial history of Notre Dame for 1942. 
224 May, 193^
THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS 

Alumni Office Completes Record Club Visits 
(Continued from Page 222) 
high schools in this territory, De La 
Salle in Minneapolis, and Cretin in 
St. Paul. The reception in each place, 
on the part of both faculty and stu­
dents, was remarkably iine. I stopped 
at St. Thomas College to chat with 
my classmate Father Bemie Cough­
lin. I had to hurry back to the hotel 
for appointments and so did not have 
time to look up Bob Fogerty who is 
also at St. Thomas. 
I had dinner Saturday evening 
with Gene O'Brien, Jack Yelland, 
Bob Sullivan, and Jack Doyle. Sun­
day Jack Yelland motored me around 
to see the sights of Minneapolis and 
we stopped in to see Mrs. Eva Phil­
lips Donahue and her daughter Helen, 
sister and niece of our dear friend 
Charles Phillips. 
SIOUX CITY 

Senator Vince Harrington, one of the busiest people in Iowa, had been out of town a great deal and my let­ters to him hadn't connected. Hence my day in Sioux City on April 23 re­solved itself into a series of visits and such. I had several chats and lunch with Vince who is doing big things in the state legislature and is a power in state politics. I also saw Doctor Nafzger, father of Jack; Cy Man­ning, department store executive and father of two boys now at Notre Dame; and Ed Lally of the Sioux City Journal. 1 also stopped to see Fred Shannon, who is in the city en­gineer's ofiSce and Attorney Archie Jepson, but both were out. Vince Harrington's brother, Gerald, who was at N.D. for a couple of years, is in the office with Vince. 
OMAHA 
My day in Omaha, April 24, was devoted to "scouting" and visiting with the alumni. I talked a couple of times over the telephone with Gene Melady, but missed connections with him in his office at the stockyards. John Doam was on a visit in Cali­fornia. I had a chat with C. P. Kah­lerin his office and he very kindly invited me to his home for a mar­velous dinner in the evening. I great­ly enjoyed meeting the gracious Mrs. Kahler and their delightful daughter, a law student at Creighton. Mr. Kah­ler is electrical engineer for the en­tire Union Pacific system and has had a great deal to do vrith the develop­ment of the U.P. stream line train which aroused so much interest throughout the country recently. 
Much to my regret I missed see­
ing Sophus Neble who is a municipal judge in Omaha and very prominent in the aiFairs of the city. 
DES MOINES 

From Omaha I hurried on to Des Moines (on the train with Eva Gal­lienne and her company) and there ran into many crowded hours on April 25 and 26, arranged by Jim Shaw, Marc Wonderlin, Harold Klein and Harry O'Boyle who were exceed­ingly generous and kind. Harry took upon himself the job of steering me around to many of the high schools. In the course of a day and a half I visited Lincoln High School, where Miss Esther Mary Brannen, a teach­er, is an ardent Notre Dame booster (even to the extent of sending her family's car to the hotel to pick me up); Roosevelt High school, Des Moines Catholic High school. East Des Moines High and North Des Moines High. In between I had sev­eral hotel conferences with prospec­tive students and a dinner with some of the alumni in the hotel. I left Des Moines amidst the plans of the local club to entertain the N.D. track team at a dinner after the Drake Re­lays the following Saturday. John Nicholson, the track coach, told me later how much he appreciated this kindness on the part of the club and 
how enjoyable the dinner was. My thanks and the thanks of the Univer­sity to an excellent local group. 
KANSAS CITY, ST. JOSEPH, LEAVENWORTH 
I got off aboard a sleeper for Kan­sas City and four very active days, including the week-end. The alert and loyal Dan Foley, president of the 
K.C. Club and his outfit, had ar­ranged a very complete program for me. Dan, with Jim Bray, Bob Tyler and i'ohn Dugan, met me at the sta­tion at 7:30 A.M. which was a mighty fine indication of real interest. And Dan, with Bob and Jim (John had to go home that night to sleep in prep­aration for the return the next day from the hospital of his new daugh­ter), put me aboard a St. Louis train the following Monday at midnight. In between Doc Nigro did everything in his power—and a good deal more —^to make my visit happy and profit­able. 
Twenty-five of the boys appeared for a luncheon on Friday, a further indication of this club's interest and enthusiasm. Much to my deep regret, we were delayed at meeting in Ward High School, in Kansas City, Kansas and did not reach the luncheon until most of the boys had had to leave. My sincere apologies here to the club members. I'm very sorry. (But we really were at the high school. We 
didn't stop at Dugan's office until 
later, believe it or not). 
Among the schools, we visited De 

La Salle High School in K.C., Mis­
souri as well as Ward H. S., as noted 
above. Both were wonderfully hos­
pitable and interested. With Foley 
and Dugan (in Dugan's speed 
demon) made a 160-mile circle tour 
on Monday and took in the Christian 
Brothers High School in St. Joseph, 
and Immaculata High School in 
Leavenworth. Stopped off at St. 
Benedict's in Atchison and had a 
very pleasant visit with Larry Mul­
lins and his charming family. 
Dan Foley's family in Leavenworth 

entertained me handsomely on two 
different occasions over the week-end 
and Doc Nigro did likewise Saturday 
night and most of Sunday. My grati­
tude here to all of them. 
ST. LOUIS 
St. Louis, on May Day, didn't pro­

duce any riots, but it did provide an 
exceedingly full day ^vith the gener­
ous assistance of many alumni. Joe 
Switzer very hospitably met me at 
the train in the morning. Through 
the day with the assistance of Joe, 
Bob Hellrung and Pat Ryan, I spoke 
at three different Catholic high 
schools, all conducted by the Broth­
ers of Mary: Central Catholic in 
East St. Louis, McBride in St. Louis 
and Chaminade in Clayton, a suburb. 
The hospitality and cordialiity were 
of the finest everywhere. I had din­
ner with Bob Hellrung and spent the 
early evening with him. Later in the 
evening there was a splendid meet­
ing of the St. Louis club in the Jeffer­
son hotel with Doc Kennedy, presi­
dent, presiding. Plans were made for 
future activities. There was abund­
ant interest in N.D. and her activ­
ities. 
And so, because of the limitations of time and space, I must end. A last request: Please excuse the omis­sions and forgive the errors. The in­tensity and rapidity of such a trip leave the memory and mentality (if any) something of a blank. 
Father Nieuwiand Honored 

The Rev. Julius A. Nieuwiand, C.S.C, professor of chemistry at the University, has accepted an invita­tion to serve as one of four honor delegates of the American branch of the International Acetylene Associa­tion convention to be held in Rome, Italy, in Jime. Father Nieuwiand was recently awarded the Morehead medal for distinguished contributions to tiie field of calcium carbide produc­tion and utilization. The award is made annually by the International Acetylene Association. 
May, 1934 225 
THE Nq^TBE DAME ALUMNUS 



Noble Athlete of Christ* 
By REV.. JOHN B. KELLY, Spiritual Director Catholic Writers Guild of America 
The youth divine who taught His men to face The charging line of seas with hearts serene Bade Michael lead a captain to His place In council planning conquests for His Queen. 
Knute Rockne, noble athlete of Christ Whose Alma Mater, too, is Notre Dame Pursued the Prince of Peace to gloty's heights That he might help Him win Redemption's game. 
The Son of God, who one day dropped the ball Thru Adam's fumbled pass in Eden's bowl Then welcomed Rock to heaven's Sorin Hall To teach His angels guard all mankind's goal. 
Their Mother Mary clasped the stalwart twain Whose days gave glory to her holy name Both fell to earth and died that men might gain The smile of her they hail as Notre Dame. 
t 

*This poem was dedicated to Knute Rockne—Noble Athlete of Christ—on the occasion of the Second Annual Rockne Memorial and Communion Breakfast of the Notre Dame Club of the City of New York, April 8, 1934. 

Dr.Knowles Smith Experiments With Radium Minerals 
Like showers of fire from burst­tegration of uranium and radium ing miniature skyrockets is the effect atoms after having been transmuted produced by exploding atoms in the into helium and lead. mining laboratories of the engineer­The head of the department of ing building at the University of mining engineering. Dr. Knowles 
Notre Dame. Radium ores or rocks Smith, is experimenting with the dif­containing radium minerals, are con­ferent varieties of the minerals
 con­tinually bombarding the air with a stituting these ores to determine resultant display of fireworks, if 
their relative degrees of radioactiv­ity. All of the observations are madeproperly observed, due to the disin­
in the dark room through a special screen which is prepared from time to time in the laboratory. 
The exploding atoms throw oflf 
. alpha particles or helium, less an electron, into the surrounding atmos­phere at an exceedingly high velocity and are invisible until they strike the screen. At that instant each pro­duces a separate flash of light. Some radium minerals produce only occa­sional flashes. Others give a great many per second. 
Scientists throughout the world have labored to transform the atoms of one element into those of another. It was the alchemist's dream in the middle ages. Since the discovery of radium an intense study has been carried on as to its chemical and physical properties. To the amaze­ment of science it was discovered that nature in her own laboratory was producing radium from another ele­ment known as uranium while the radium itself was being transformed into still other elements. This natur­al process of change presumedly has been continuous since the earth was formed, is beyond the control of man and has opened a new vista leading to the structure of the atom. 
Dr. Smith states that the science of geology has benefited from the study of this spontaneous disintegra­tion of uranium through utilizing the slow rate of change in determining the approximate great ages of the inclosing rocks and consequently the partial age of the earth. This is possibly due to the fact that the lead which is formed is composed of one or more isotopes of lead slightly dif­ferent in atomic weight from ordin­ary lead which identifies its origin. Also in geology it is realized that the portion of energy liberated in the form of heat as a result of the trans­mutation is partly responsible for the heat within the earth. 
In the Notre Dame collection of raditmi bearing minerals are some choice specimens of camotite ore which were presented to the depart­ment of mining engineering several years ago by the manager of a large group of radium mines in Colorado, John I. Mullen, an engineer graduate of Notre Dame. These deposits are extensive. But at present an African mine produces most of the world's supply at a lower cost. 
The latest discovery of radium ore is at Great Bear lake in the Can­adian northwest near the Arctic circle where it is found with sUver. The annual world production of ra­dium is only a small quantity and. exact statistics are not published. It probably does not exceed three ounces with a value of more than $4,000,000. It is the most valuable substance of the earth and the most difficult to extract from ores. 
226 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS May, 193i 



Clubs Wire Greetings On U. N. D. Nisht 
Expressions of Loyalty and Good Wishes Pour in from all parts of the Country as Alumni Gather for Annual Observance. 
Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., President, Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Dear Father O'Donnell, greetings for Notre Dame Night from all your Ursulines in Toledo. Our prayers today are for Notre Dame and for you that Our Lady may smile on you with renewed health and with every blessing for Notre Dame.—^Toledo Ursulines, Sister Pul­cheria, superior. 
Best wishes to you and Notre Dame—Sister Aloysius, Presentation Convent, Dougherty, Iowa, 
The Notre Dame Club of Oregon in session at Colum­bia University on Universal Notre Dame Night extends best wishes to you and the University with earnest hope for your good health and success to Notre Dame in all her xmdertaldngs—^'^m. C. Schmitt, secretary. 
Congratulations on splendid achievement of your administration. Heartiest greetings on Universal Notre Dame Night—Twin Cities Notre Dame Club, Eugene O'Brien, president. 
Congratulations on your recovery and return home. Best wishes for your continued good health—Notre Dame Club of Tiffin, Fred Wagner, secretary. 
Northern California Club rejoices to hear of your complete recovery. Best wishes to all and tell that foot­ball ticket committee to give us a better break next fall at Los Angeles. Royal H. Bosshard, president. 
Notre Dame Club of Albany sends you best wishes— 
T. D. DoUard. 
Greetings and best wishes from the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. We are glad that you are back and want you to know how sincerely we appreciate your contribu­tion to the glory of Notre Dame—Matthew E. Trudelle, president Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. 
The Notre Dame club of Hamilton, Ohio at its lunch­eon today ordered its greetings sent to Alma Mater with good wishes for a successful year together with a prayer that your health be restored and that a long lease on life may still be yours—^M. 0. Bums, president of the class of '86, Hamilton, Ohio Club. 
Best wishes for speedy recovery. We are proud of you—^Leo E. Mclntyre, president. Eastern Penn Notre Dame Club. 
Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis at largest Univer­sal Notre Dame night observance in its history sends greetings and best wishes for your speedy restoration to health—^Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis. 
Our thoughts are with you on this Universal Notre Dame Night. To have known you has meant a great deal in our lives—John F. and Kelly Powers. 
Entire Dayton Club rejoices in your complete recov­ery and extend to you its best wishes for future health and continued ssuccess—^Notre Dame Club of Dayton. 
The Toledo Notre Dame Club assembled, sends its greetings—The Toledo Notre Dame Club, John Hurley. 
May God Almighty keep you with us, congratulations —Peoria N. D. Alumni Club. 
Congratulations on achievements. Cordial good mshes for health and bappuiess—^Patrick MacDonough. 
Best wishes from the Rock River Valley Club— 
Alumni and friends assembled for Universal Notre Dame Night. Extend cordial greetings stop may your future undertakings be blest with God's graces—^Notre Dame Club of St. Louis. 
Philadelphia extends best wishes for good health. Congratulations on a notable presidency and apprecia­tion of your self sacrifice—^Phila. Notre Dame Alumni. 
Three hundred of us join in wishing you the happiest Universal Notre Dame Night possible—^Notre Dame Club of New York, 
We rejoice in your return to Notre Dame and pledge ourselves anew to Our Lady, to you, the faculty, students and alumni—^Earl W. Brown, president, Notre Dame Club of Montana, Wm. B. Jones, secretary. 
On this happy occasion we tender our sincere wishes for your continued health.—Notre Dame Club of West-em Pennsylvania. 
Congratulations on return, praying for complete recov­ery. Nice turnout here—Denver Notre Dame Club. 
One himdred members of the Notre Dame Club of Washing^ton join in wish you on Universal Notre Dame Night every good wish for your speedy recovery and return to our Alma Mater—Jim Hayes, president, Notre Dame Club of Washington. 
The Notre Dame Club of Boston joins with all others in extending to you best of wishes on this Universal Notre Dame Night—Notre Dame Club of Boston. 
The Notre Dame Club of Grand Rapids renews its pledge of loyalty on this Universal Notre Dame Night— George E. Ludwig, president. 
Greetings and best wishes on this Notre Dame night— Simeon T. Flanagan. 
We are all very happy to know that you have recov­ered from your illness and consider your return to the University as a blessing with sincerest good wishes for your continued good health and success in your affairs. From a loyal group of well wishers—^Notre Dame Club of Memphis, Hugh Magevney, Jr., president. 
Maij, 193i THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Rev. John O'Hara, C.S.C., Vice-President, University Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Greetings and cordial good wishes for successful Uni­versal Notre Dame Night—Sister M. Agnes Alma, presi­dent of the Womens' Club. 
Greetings on occasion of Universal Notre Dame Night celebration—Jacoho Zobel, Manila. 
Notre Dame Club of Cleveland sends greetings and best ^vishes on Eleventh Annual Universal Notre Dame Night we are celebrating at Cleveland Chamber of Com­merce ^vith dinner honoring Tom Yarr—Matthew E. Tru­delle, president of Notre Dame Club of Cleveland, 1023 Schofield Bldg. 
Congratulations on observance of Eleventh Annual Universal Notre Dame Night—Alderman John J. Peters. 
Sincere greetings to Notre Dame Our Mother—Hogan Morrissey, president, Notre Dame Club of Cincinnati. 
Elmer F. Layden, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Full membership of club extend to you all the success possible in your new endeavor. We assure you the Notre Dame Club of Dayton is back of you one hundred percent —Notre Dame Club of Dayton. 
We return our heartiest greetings for your success from Dr. G. A. Shannon, George E. Cartier, John J. Dempsey, Sam A. Walker, J. H. Manley, E. L. Cochrane, Emmett Lenihan, Terry Shannon, F. M. Kirkland, James Phelon, Wm. H. Tiemey, Leo J. Conlin, Morris Starrett, Dr. L. T. McNerchney, vice-president; Tom Dempsey, secretary-treasurer, and Jos. D. Sinnot, president of the Notre Dame Club of Western Washington. We all voted that you come out and see us some time—Jos. D. Sinnott. 
All present greatly appreciate your good wishes on this occasion—Joliet Notre Dame Club. 
The Notre Dame Club of Montana wish you much success this coming fall and always—Earl W. Brown, president, Wm. B. Jones, secretary. 
Thanks for remembrance, nice turnout. Best wishes for coming season—^Denver Notre Dame Club. 
Thanks for the felicitations Elmer, the feeling is reciprocal. Detroit is celebrating Universal Notre Dame night at Book-Cadillac. Detroit has not seceded—^Notre Dame Club of Detroit. 
The rest of us join a fellow Four Horsemen in "Let's Ride Boy"—Philadelphia Alumni. 
Wishing you lots of success for the coming season— Rock River Valley Club. 
Notre Dame Club Milwaukee backing you one hundred percent good luck—^Notre Dame Club Milwaukee. 
Reciprocate greetings with best wishes for your suc­cess—Jacobo Zobel, Manila. 
Greetings from our hearts to all at Notre Dame— James D. Barry, N. D. Club of Arizona. 
Notre Dame Club of Cleveland thanks you for greet­ings wish you and athletic department much success this year and many years more—Matthew E. Trudelle, presi­dent of Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. 
Here's hoping your halfbacks stand up as well as the cocktail bar—^Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania. 
Here's to Notre Dame success and yours—Notre Dame Club of Kentucky, Wm. A. Reisert, Jr., president. 
Thank you we are all cheering for you and Notre Dame—Leo R. Mclntyre, president. Eastern Pennsylvania Notre Dame Club. 
Thanks for the greetings accept our tardy congratu­lations on your appointment. Hope to have you in Grand Rapids soon—^Ray Bonini, secretary, Notre Dame Club of Grand Rapids. 
Two hundred fifty members Notre Dame Club of Chi­cago assembled at Universal Notre Dame Night celebra­tion reaffirm that faith in your fitness for the job you have undertaken and their loyalty to you win lose or draw—Notre Dame Club of Chicago. 
Club appreciates telegram and joins the world in wishing you the best of luck-—Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Louis. 
Thirty members Connecticut Valley Clubs send cordial greetings, much success—Connecticut Valley Club. 
James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Thirty members Connecticut Valley Cub send cordial greetings. Carrying on—Connecticut Valley Club. 
Notre Dame Club of Cleveland sends greetings and best wishes upon observance of Eleventh Aimual Uni-. versasl Notre Dame Night—Matthew E. Trudelle, presi­dent of Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. 
We are doing our best here in Boston—^The Notre Dame Club of Boston. 
Paul M. Butler, president, Notre Dame Club of St. Jos­eph Valley, Notre Dame University, South Bend, Ind. 
Greatly appreciate invitation' to attend testimonial banquet. Previous speaking engagement prevents me from accepting. Kindly add my sincere congratulations .to a great team and a great coach.—^W. S. Chandler, basket­ball coach, Marquette University. 
The Fort Wayne Notre Dame Club joins with Notre Dame Alumni throughout the world on this occasion of Universal Notre Dame Night in paying tribute to our beloved Alma Mater—^Fort Wayne Notre Dame Club, Bob Eggeman, president. 
228 THE NoTEE DAME ALUMNUS May, 19Si 

THE REGISTRAR RAMBLES-April 15-20,1934 Honor Basket Team; 
By ROBERT B . RIORDAN, '24, Registrar Jordan Named Captain In observing Universal Notr e 
Summary: Official stops — Indian­apolis, Cincinnati, Fort Wayne; High school contacts—3 public, 3 Catholic; Registrars' convention — attended; Universal Notre Dame Night — one address, unfinished; Miles traveled— 626; Chizelled — Nights' lodging 2, Meals, innumerable. 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Leaving Sunday, April 15, in a nice driving rain I spent the night in Marion, Indiana (free bed' and board). Monday morning I addressed the senior class of the Cathedral High School, Indianapolis, on the topic of Catholic education in general and Notre Dame education in par­ticular. Brother William and liis staff upheld the hospitality of Holy Cross and had me to lunch. 
Managed to see George Bischoff, '25, before dashing on to Cincinnati. George was in his usual high spirits, reporting business as being on the increase in quantity and quality. 
CINCINNATI 
By boiling my radiator dry, I man­aged to reach Cincinnati in time for the Universal Notre Dame Night cele­bration. Was conveyed from the Gib­son hotel to the Club rendezvous by Cincinnati's master host and public relations expert, William A. A. Cas­tellini, '22. Of the numerous breth­ren in attendance I remember the fol­lowing, seen through clouds of Ha­vana smoke and heard through vol­umes of conversation: W. D. "Ho­gan" Morrissey '26, Robert Hughes, '29, Leo V. DuBois '15, Joseph Kin­neary '28, Albert D. CastelUni '24, Commodore Ed McHugh '13, "Silent" Joe Morrissey '28, Clarence Brink '31. 
"Hogan" Morrissey, at the head of the banquet board, presided over the consumption of Cincinnati's best, both carving and pouring. Having at­tended another N.D. gathering. Com­modore Ed McHugh and staff ar­rived late but were piped over the side in true nautical style. There were many telegraphic exchanges of greetings; particularly was the local gathering pleased with a solicitous wire from Father O'Hara then at the Chicago gathering and one from Elmer Layden. All in all it was a happy,' happy conclave. 
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday I attended the annual convention of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars which was both profitable and enjoyable. 
Thursday night was back in Ma­rion where the Kiley Brewing Com­pany (the N.D. Kileys in charge) was celebrating the premier of their "Patrick Henry—^the beer with an ale base." Also saw Bob Williams, '21, who is in the auto finance business and who looks quite prosperous. Bob rides hard on the local alumni when­ever the need arises. 
FORT WAYNE 
Friday morning I reached Fort Wayne in time to talk at four high schools, thanks to advance arrange­ments by the Judge and Bob Egge­man. Bob spent the day with me in covering the schools—^believe me, the Eggemans deserve the blue ribbon for Notre Dame spirit and alumni inter­est. Also saw Cliff Ward, '23, enter­prising journalist, from whom I learned that Harry Flannery, '23, was one of the master minds in charge of Fort Wayne's WOWO ra­dio station, reputed the best in the state. 
Back in South Bend in time to sit in on the convention of the Indiana Association of Economists and Sociol­ogists. The children almost recog­nized me when I got home. 
Former Student Wins Prize 

Robert Weppner, of Lakewood, 0., a former student at the University, recently was awarded the coveted Prix de Rome, prize of §4,000 for first place in a nation-'ivide architec­tural competition. He will study two years in the American Academy in Rome. Weppner sumitted the prize design for a "memorial in Washing­ton to the founders of the republic." 
BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY 
An unusual opportunity has come through the Alumni Of­fice for a young man between 30 and 35 with the combination of a law degree and an educa­tion in accounting. ' The com­bination being somewhat rare accounts for its advertising. Anyone having the qualifica­tions please communicate im­mediately with the Alumni Of­fice, Box 81, Notre Dame, Ind., stating qualifications. The job is in Chicago. 

Dame Night, the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley also honored the Notre Dame basketball team of 1933-34 with a testimonial banquet in a University dining hall on Monday, April 16. Approximately 350 were present. Clarence E. (Pat) Manion was the toastmaster. 
At the conclusion of the banquet John J. Jordan, of Chicago, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected captain of the basketball team for 1934-35. Jordan, a fonvard and one of two juniors on the squad, was one of the important cogs in this year's championship machine. 
Coach George Keogan annoimced that monograms had been awarded to the follo\ving members of this year's squad: Donald Allen, Leo J. Crowe, George M. Ireland, James R. Newbold, guards; John E. Ford, John J. Jordan, Joseph 'Voegele, Mar­tin Peters, Joseph O'Kane, forwards; Captain Ed Krause, center and Charles F. Quinn, senior manager. 
The speakers at the banquet in­cluded Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics at Notre Dame; Noble Kizer director of athletics at Purdue; Paul Hinkle, director of athletics at But­ler; Jack Lipe, coach of the Illinois state championship basketball team in Harvey, Illinois; Wilfred Smith of the Chicago Tribune sports staff; Rev. P. H. Dolan, C.S.C, prefect of discipline at the University and Coach Keogan. 
Father Dolan paid great tribute to George Keogan as a coach and a gentleman and declared that Notre Dame had come to recognize Keogan as "the Rockne of basketball." He praised the Notre Dame spirit which he said time could never kill and de­clared that despite great losses such as the deaths of Knute Rockne, Fath­er Hudson and Prof. Charles Phillips, the school program moved forward. 
Elmer Layden, Notre Dame ath­letic director, praised Coach Keogan and his cohorts for their successful season and expressed the wish that his football men learn the winning ways of the basketball players. 
In closing Layden remarked: "May all the wolves have false teeth." 
Coach Keogan reviewed the past basketball season and praised the seniors who are graduating for the efforts they have put forth to make the past three seasons successful. The boys graduating are Leo Crowe, Captain Ed Krause, Joe 'Voegele and Jim Newbold. He also praised the new athletic setup at Notre Dame and expressed confidence in Elmer Layden's ability to produce a winning football team next fall. 
SPRING ATHLETIC SUPPLEMENT 
Tini NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
: Joseph Pctritz, '32, Sports Editor: 

RECORDS FALL AS TRACK SEASON OPENS 
Nicholson develops well-balanced squad for outdoor season after successful indoor campaign. Young, Meagher, Elser, Murphy, Layden, Roberts, McFarlane star. 
Five Notre Dame records, two Car­tier Field records, and one gymnasium mark have fallen before the assaults of three members of Coach John P. Nicholson's track squad, another typ­ically well-balanced Nicholson team. 
Vincent Murphy, Cleveland junior, recently set a mark of 6 feet 5% inches in the high jump against Ohio State. This is a new outdoor mark for Notre Dame men, eclipsing also the indoor mark of 6 feet 5% inches Murphy set in his first meet for the Irish. 
George Meagher, diminutive soph­omore from DePue, HI., broke the Notre Dame and gymnasium record in the broad jump twice during the indoor season with leaps of 23 feet 3\i inches and 23 feet 5% inches. He jumped 24 feet 6% inches out­doors for a new field and N.D. mark. 
Don Elser, who starred at fullback in football last year, and made the basketball squad last winter, put his 220 pounds of gristle behind the 16­pound ball both indoors and outdoors for new Irish marks. The new indoor record is 46 feet 2 inches. The out­door mark, made against Michigan State, is 50 feet 8 inches. 
CAPT. YOUNG 
COACH JOHN P. NICHOLSON 

Other star performers have been Francis (jMike) Layden, who wins al­most every hurdle race he enters, either high or low; Capt. Joe Young, plucky little miler who has bettered 4:26; Leo McFarlane, sophomore two-miler who has run 9:31.8 as a sopho­more, although he never ran in high school; Bob Bernard, star quarter-miler, a sophomore; and Clyde Roberts, versatile runner who can cover any distance from 440 yards to a mile in creditable time. 
The indoor schedule saw victories over Marquette, 57 to 38, and Ohio State, 71 to 33, and a loss, by 6 1/3 points to Illinois, 55 1/3 to 48 2/3. The Irish rose from fifth place in 1933 to second in 1934 in the C. I. C. meet which Michigan State won. They took six places in the Armour relays in Chicago and three in the K. of C. games in New York, including Mur­phy's tie for first at 6 feet, 5 inches at the latter. Notre Dame participat­ed in both events the same day. 
The four-mile relay team (King, McFarlane, Young, Roberts) won the Butler relays, while Murphy took sec­ond in the high jump. 
The Irish took two places in the Kansas relays to open the outdoor season. They took three at Penn the following week, while failing to place at Drake the same day. Nicholson believes the fates are against him, for in almost every event, had he sent the Drake competitors to Penn and vice versa, Notre Dame would have won. 
Ohio State scored a surprise 70 to 61 victory over Notre Dame in the first outdoor dual meet of the season at night in Columbus. The Irish beat Michigan State, 801-3 to 50 2-3, the next week. The following meets re­main: Pittsburgh there May 19. State meet at Lafayette May 26. CJ.C. meet at Milwaukee June 8, and N.C. .A..A. meet at Los Angeles June 15-16. 
ELSEB MUKPHY 

SPRING ATHLETIC SUPPLEMENT 
TENNIS 
The beginning of work on ten new clay courts and the appointment of Prof. Pedro de Landero as coach of tennis has provided a stimulus to this sport which has developed what ap­peared to be a sub-par Notre Dame team into a winning group. 
For the past several years, tennis has been allowed to go pretty much its own way. A student manager was appointed; he did most of the scheduling, and the boys went to work on the season without organiza­tion or leadership or much of any in­centive outside of the will to win and love for the game. 
The results were about what could be expected. 
Sensing this situation long before the season opened. Director of Ath­letics Elmer F. Layden started a move to get ten new clay courts. Work was started immediately, and now the courts are nearing comple­tion. They will be ready for the final week and possibly the final two weeks of the current season. 
The old asphalt courts presented two major obstacles. First there were only four courts and, until a team was picked, there was no cer­tainty about when candidates for the team could get a court. Rather than wait for hours, many good tennis players passed up the sport complete­ly. Secondly, asphalt courts give a high bounce, even on a well-chopped stroke. The Notre Dame players be­came accustomed to playing a high bounce. AVhen they played on clay 
• courts in foreign territory they were at a loss to return those low, zipping chop strokes which we have men­tioned. 
The 1934 team is built largely around Capt. John O'Hanlon, Wash­
ington, D. C. and Dick Kelly, Neenah, Wis., winner of a Beaux Arts prize in architecture last year. Both are seniors. The other members are Ed Seward, Elyria, Ohio, senior; Frank Weldon, New Eochelle, N. Y., junior; Joe Waldron, Trenton, N. J., sopho­more; and George W. Cannon, Jr., North Muskegon, Mich., sophomore. Prospects for next year are on the up-grade. 
Prof. deLandero, head of the Fac­ulty club, coach of fencing and the La Raza club soccer team, has pulled the current team together and it has won three matches, after being blanked in the first two. 
Following are the results to date and the rest of the schedule: North­western 6, Notre Dame 0; Western State 9, Notre Dame 0; Notre Dame 6, Armour Tech 3; Notre Dame 4, Albion 3; Notre Dame 6, Detroit 1; Michigan State 7, Notre Dame 2. CAPT. JOHN O'HANLON May 19—^Michigan State here. May 25—Chicago here. 
BASKETBALL 
They are still talking about that Notre Dame basketball team in many sections of the country, so we feel that it is appropriate, even at this late date, to review, however briefly, the glories of the past season. 
Coach George E. Keogan, in com­pleting his 11th year as coach of the Irish forces, built a team which won 20 of its 24 games, defeating Purdue, the conference champion, by l i points, 39 to 28; Northwestern, the runner-up by 28 to 24 and 37 to 21; Kalamazoo, Ball State, Albion, Brad­ley, Arizona, Michigan State twice, Butler twice, Chicago, Valparaiso, Detroit, Temple, Xavier, and Ohio State; splitting with Marquette and Minnesota while maintaining a total point advantage in each series, and losing two games to Pittsburgh. 
The first 20-victory season of Keo­gan's career gives him a total of 176 
PROP PEDRO A. DB LANDERO, COACH 
victories and 54 defeats for a per­centage of .765. This is a better mark than any other coach of a major team can claim for his all-time record at any school. 
Capt. Ed (Moose) Krause, made the all-America teams for the third consecutive year, one of the few players in the history of the game to accomplish this feat. Despite the fact that various opponents guarded him with as many as three players, he scored 194 points to lead state and team scoring. 
Graduating stars include Krause, Leo Crowe, guard; Joe (Arms) Voe-
Here, left to right, are the members of the 193i Notre Dame tennis team. Back row —Weldon, Waldron, Cannon, Prof. Pedro A. de Landero, coach. Front row—Kelly, Capt. O'Hanlon, Seward. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
CAPT. VINXENT FEHLIG 

gele, forward, and Jim Newbold, re­serve guard. Returning veterans are Captain-elect Johnny Jordan, snappy forward whose brilliant play kept the Irish juggernaut rolling when it might have slackened; Don Allen, guard; Johnny Ford, forward; George Ireland, sophomore guard who was the only member of the squad to par­ticipate in every game; Joe O'Kane, forward; Don Elser, guard; and Marty Peters, forward and center. Peters was third in scoring, behind Krause and Voegele, ^vith 121 points for 22 games. 
The 1933-34 team was sure death for records. It won 11 straight games, which, combined with the last 11 of last year, gave Notre Dame a new all-time winning streak of 22 games. They won 15 straight home games, and 18 out of 19, losing only to Pittsburgh on the local floor. Four of the 15 victories came in 1932-33 and the other 11 in 1933-34. 
Attendance totals of 53,000 for home games and 50,800 for games away from home, as well as the total of 103,800, set new Notre Dame records. 
Krause set an individual scoring record of 22 points in a single game, making all of them in the first 34 minutes of the first Minnesota game. 
On. the poiverful shoulders of these young vien ride the hopes of Notre Dame for a 
•national golf championship. Left to Right: Green, Banks, Veeneman, Capt. Fehlig, Day, Montedonico, and the Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C. coach. 

GOLF 
Another outstanding Notre Dame golf team is blazing its way across the fainvays of the middle west with five victories already away and two matches as well as the state and na­tional intercollegiate tournaments ahead of them. 
They will go into Eastern territory, too, according to the latest word from Director of Athletics Elmer F. Lay-den's office, with a June trip which will begin just after commencement and will last until the national colleg­iate meet in Cleveland June 25 to 30. 
The rise of Notre Dame into the collegiate golfing spotlight since the opening of the William J. Burke-No­tre Dame course in 1930 has been phenomenal, both in suddenness and its consistency. 
The team of 1934 is worthy of the 
REV. GEO. L. HOLDERITH, C.S.C. COACH 
high standards set by that first team captained by Larry MoUer which in 1930 took third place in the national meet while Captain Larry was win­ning medalist honors and going to the finals of the tournament. 
The 1930, 1931 and 1933 teams were undefeated in dual match play, while the 1932 team lost only two dual matches out of eight. The Irish won the state team title in 1930, 1931, and 1933. The string of indi­vidual state champions is unbroken— Bill Redmond in 1930, Larry Moller in 1931, Capt. Redmond again in 1932, and William Cole last year. 
The present team is made up of the same men who comprised last year's team, plus three new members. Vin­cent Fehlig, St. Louis, Mo., is captain. ex-Capt. John Montedonico, Memphis; William Veeneman, Louisville; John­ny Banks and Winfield Day (who re­cently negotiated the difficult number 4 Olympia Fields course in 70) both of Chicago; Herman Green of New Castle, Pa., and Patrick Malloy, Jr., of Tulsa, Okla., son of the late Pat­rick M. Malloy, Notre Dame graduate of the class of 1907, are his team­mates. 
In addition to the seven teams on the schedule which follow, ten Eastern schools have signified their willingness to meet the Irish, and it is likely that eight of these matches will materialize for the first intersec­tional golf trip in the history of the University. Following is the record to date and the remaining regularly scheduled matches: 
Notre Dame 14, Detroit 4; Notre Dame 15%, Purdue 2%; Notre Dame 15, Chicago 3; Notre Dame 15%, Wisconsin 2%; Notre Dame 15, Northwestern 3. 
May 19 — Illinois at Champaign. May 24—^Indiana here. May 25-26— .Indiana State meet here. June 25-30, National Collegiate meet, Cleveland. 
SPRING ATHLETIC SUPPLEMENT 
BASEBALL 
Supplemented by the presence of several football-baseball stars who preferred spring football to baseball, Notre Dame's hopes for a happy end­ing to the current season are high. 
The present members of the team, however, might give the football men some lessons in how to fight, for, despite the record of nine losses against two victories, the lads have rallied in either the eighth or ninth inning, just falling short of victory in every one of the games they lost almost without exception. 
Following is the record compiled to date by the charges of the recently appointed Coach Clarence (Jake) Kline, also head freshman football mentor: Ohio State 7, Notre Dame 5; Western State 14, Notre Dame 7; Chicago 14, Notre Dame 12; North­western 14, Notre Dame 13; Purdue 14, Notre Dame 12; Purdue 9, Notre Dame 6; Wisconsin 6, Notre Dame 4; Notre Dame 5, Ohio State 3; Michi­gan State 8, Notre Dame 1; Western State 4, Notre Dame 2; Notre Dame 7, Indiana 3. 
Following is the rest of the sched­ule: May 15—Northwestern at Ev­anston. May 18—Iowa here. May 19 —Iowa here. May 22—Chicago here. May 24—Purdue here. June 1—^Wis­consin here. June 2—Michigan State here. 

Here is the first picture printed by the ALXIMNDS of the new football coaching staff, although thousands have appeared elsewhere. Left to right: Joe Boland, Donald C. (Chet) Grant, Tom. Conley, and Head Coach and Director of Ath­letics Elmer F. Layden. 
COACH CLARENCE (JAKE) KLINE 

Coach Clarence J. (Jake) Kline, second from left in back roio, is shown here with his Irish baseball team. They Iiaven't won many games, but they have shoivn their fight by their consistent late rallies. 
FOOTBALL 
The closing game of the spring football practice season, resulting as it did in a fine exhibition of defensive football, agreeably spotted with strik­ing offensive thrusts—and resulting in a 6 to 6 tie—^left the campus with a deep sense of respect for the 1933 team, whose members played bril­liant, daring football in their final game; but left only a feeling of hope for the varsity of 1934. 
The new coaching staff was dis­appointed in the showing. But it appeared that tackling is just a bit harder and blocking is just a bit more deadly than when practice opened. 
The team is admittedly weak from tackle to tackle. The ends, Capt. Dominic Vairo and Wayne Millner, are two of the best in the country. The possible return of Jack Robinson, Jr., at center might make a pair of fair guards look good. Only one mono­gram winner appeared from tackle to tackle with the regulars—John Mi­chuta, right tackle. 
The backfield is well set: Eeyman (Bud) Bonar is a heady quarterback. Andy Pilney and Bill Shakespeare are triple threat left halfbacks; George Melinkovich, Don Elser, and Fred Carideo are the fullbacks. John­ny (Tex) Young and Al Costello are maldng a creditable showing at right halfback. 
May, 193i THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 233 
U.N.D. Night Is Widely Observed 
BOSTON 

A well-attended dinner was held April 16, at the Hotel Kenmore by the Boston Club. There was more en­thusiasm shown than at any recent meeting . Universal Notre Dame Night always proves that the boys here still have Notre Dame Spirit. 
Dr. Eddie Anderson joined us with his running mate at Holy Cross, Joe Sheeketski. John McManmon (bigger than ever) gave a very interesting talk on horse racing and his exper­iences as a jockey. 
The club voted favorably on a motion to publish a directory con­taining the whereabouts and occupa­tion of each Boston Alumus. There was an election of officers as follows: 
Jarlath (Jack) Slattery, president; Jim Skahan, secretary-treasurer; Dr. Eddie Anderson, Charlie Crowley, Joe Gartland, Maurice (Pat) Cohen, and Joe Sullivan, board of governors; Kev. Cornelius Donovan, chaplain. 
Boston has the material for a won­derful and enthusiastic club. We're going to make it just that. 
Jim Skahan. 
CINCINNATI 

W. D. (Hogan) Morrissey is new president of the Cincinnati Notre Dame Club. He was elected to guide the destinies of local alumni during the coming year, at a recent meet­ing at the Fenwick Club. 
Other officers chosen were Lany Janszen, Vice-president; Joe Kin­neary, Secretary; Clarence Brink, Treasurer; and Robert Hughes, Trus­tee. 
Other trustees are Harrj' V. Crum­ley, and Wm. A. A. Castellini. Ed­\vin C. McHugh was re-elected hon­orary president of the local organi­zation. 
Brother Benjamin, C.S.C., repre­sentative of The Ave Maria maga­zine, was the honored guest. 
Note: For an account of Universal 
N. D. Night in Cincinnati, see story of Bob Riordan's trip in this issue. 
CAPITOL DISTRICT 

In observation of Universal Notre Dame Night, April 16, the Notre Dame Club of the (New York) Cap­itol District convened for the annual election dinner in the Dutch Room of Keeler's Restaurant, Albany. 
President Dollard opened the meet­ing with the announcement that the climax to the year's activities, the Christmas Dance, had been a finan­cial, as well as social, success. 
Mike Leding contributed a short discussion of his experiences on the football squad. 
Your telegram and others from Notre Dame linked the gathering with the campus for the evening. 
Before adjournment a rising vote of thanks was extended to Tom Dol­lard for the capable and effective manner in which he conducted the club during his term as president. 
Richard S. (Dick) Walsh, '31. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
In observance of Universal Notre Dame night, a group of the boys gathered at the Clinton Hotel at Springfield, Massachusetts. Kelly of Lee, Bill Hurley of Springfield, and Tom Ferguson of Thompsonville were instrumental in making the arrange­ments. 
The gathering was more or less impromptu, not being called by the Connecticut Valley Club and mater­ialized in less than a week. Consid­ering the short time intervening, dis­tance and inclement weather, the at­tendance was encouraging. It seems to indicate the desire of the boys to gather together and discuss the things dear to Notre Dame men. Un­doubtedly, there would have been a larger attendance if more time had been allowed and the weather pleas­ant. 
Telegrams were received from and sent to the Chicago Club and Elmer Layden and a telegram sent to you. 
After a turkey dinner, et al, the conversation, quite naturally, turned to the activity displayed by the fel­lows upon returning to their homes. Although the group was small in number, it was big in enthusiasm, which I feel was sincere. 
Appreciating that enthusiasm is not accomplishment, a tentative date, April 30, has been set to have an open business meeting of all Notre Dame men, grads and fellows who were there for a year or more, in Hartford; the purposes of which will be to organize as an active Notre Dame Club. Jim Curry, Secretary, will call the meeting in the absence of William Granfield. 
It is really a down right shame that the club has been so inert for the past few years and using the group which gathered together at Springfield, April 16, as a nucleus, it is our intention to organize, reorgan­
ize, readjust or whatever is necessary in order to become active. Frank Laraia of Hartford lost his mother Sunday, April 15. 
Francis D. Ahem. 

Although it has taken me a long time to acknowledge your letter, be assured it was very welcome and ap­preciated. 
You mentioned the possibility of being in the Connecticut Valley dur­ing the early spring, and I have been expecting to see or hear from you. As the Glee Club gave a concert in Hartford, Easter Tuesday, I pre­sumed that you were traveling with them. 
The boys did a nice job with their concert here, a credit to the school. Joe Casasanta certainly is deserving of praise for the training, discipline and musical accomplishment of the Club. Clippings from the local news­papers are enclosed. You might be interested. Also, Joe, if he has not already seen them. 
A good complement from the Val­ley attended and were very well pleased. 
Tom Ferguson tells me "Red" Hur­ley—^Alderman—is arranging for a gathering of some of the boys in Springfield Monday, April 16. Sounds good to me and am quite anxious to attend. 
Congratulations on your ALUM­NUS, Jim, it is improving continu­ously. The special articles by mem­bers of the faculty are very good. Hope you continue with the idea. 
No doubt some one will give you the "dope" on the meeting in Spring­field. 
Success in your work and best per­sonal regards. Francis "Buck" Ahem. 
CLEVELAND As you might have heard by now the Father & Son Luncheon was quite a success. In the first place, the combination of Father Miltner and Joe Boland was perfect. It was the general consensus of opinion that the guests were given a true picture of Notre Dame. Both of these men are of course of a very high caliber and put the whole affair on a high plane. Added to this-~the -literature you sent proved very helpful and was much appreciated, by both guests and members. When the committee which was 
234 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS May, 19 Si 
composed of Eugene Kane, Paul 
Castner, Dan Sammon, John Keiner, 
Joe Ganin and myself, first met, we 
unanimously decided that since this 
was a noon-day affair it should he 
held downto^^^l and this factor added 
to the above mentioned factors plus 
a little luck enabled us to draw 104 
persons—^more than twice the crowd 
of last year. 

In conclusion I must make the fol­
lowing observation: Your office is the 
last word in efficiency and coopera­
tion and I hope it continues to ren­
der such service and display that 
spirit. In the same breath I would 
like to ask a question: Is it your un­
derstanding that in an alumni proj­
ect, promoted by a local club, con­
tacts, arrangements, etc., made with 
the University — should be made 
through your office—and vice versa? 
I ask this question because it is the 
first time I ever participated in an 
activity and I really don't know the 
answer, and again even I might be of 
some help to you in the future—so I 
would like to know. 
Well, Jim, it was really a pleasure 
and I hope to see you soon. 
Joe Sweeny. 
A Mass was celebrated by the Club Chaplain, Father Alichael Moriarty, at St. John's Cathedral, Monday, April 9, at 11:30 A.M. to commem­orate the anniversarj' of Eockne's death. Club members attended and many received Holy Communion. 
Breakfast was served in our dub rooms at Fishcher-Rohr Co., 1792 East 9th Street after the Mass. 
Don Miller, Chairman 
Dan W. Duffy 
Eichard Mahoney 
An advance notice said that Tom­my Yarr, newly-appointed head coach at John Carroll University, Cleveland, was to be the guest of honor of the Cleveland Club at its Universal N. D. Night dinner. Father Moriarty was to be the toastmaster. 
The following were to be among the other distinguished guests: Fa­ther Eodman, S.J., president of John Carroll University; Ealph Vince, di-. rector of athletics at John CarroU; and Mike Koken, Tommy's first as­sistant. 
CHICAGO 
Said the Chicago Tribune on April 17: 
"The Notre Dame Club of Chicago celebrated the eleventh annual uni­versal Notre Dame night with a din­ner in the grillroom of the Medinah Michigan Avenue club. Notre Dame alumni clubs in other cities held meetings at the same time and en­gaged in an exchange of messages. More than 250 alumni attended here. 
"The Eev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, 
vice president of the University, was 
the principal speaker. Discussing the 
present world chaos, Father O'Hara 
said: 
"I see no way out of this confusion 
except through religion. And by reli­
gion I mean something we live, every 
day and every hour, not something we 
feel, not something we put on like a 
garment, and not something we put 
in a strong box like a trinket.' 
"President James F. McNicholas of 
the club read telegrams sent the 
alumni by Elmer Layden, newly ap­
pointed coach, and his assistant, Chet 
Grant." 
In the same issue of the Tribune 
was a picture, taken at the dinner 
and showing Father O'Hara, Jim Mc-
Nicholas, Byron Kanaley, John Ka­
naley. Alderman Eoger Kiley, and 
Judge John O'Connell, all Notre 
Dame men. 
DAYTON 
Thought I would drop you a line 
to let you know that the Dayton Club 
is still alive. 
On April 16th we held our annual meeting at the Gibbons Hotel, with the election of officers for the coming year. Amos Clay, '15, was elected president; his address is Union Trust Bldg. We had a representative from Springfield here and elected him Treasurer; he is none other than Dan Shevlin. The office of the Sec­retary remains in the same hands. 
Bart McHugh is now in Dayton as manager of the C.M.D. motor freight lines replacing Jim Wood who has been transferred to Indianapolis. 
Andy Aman, Jr. '30. 
DENVER A little late on reportilig the meet­ing of our local N.D. club on April 16, 1934, but I guess that the old saying of "better late than never," holds true. Our meeting was called to be held at the Blue Parrot and by the dead line a goodly crowd had gathered. Supper was served first and then the meeting was called to order by Bob Dick, '29. Due to some error Dave Hickey and Louis Hough are still listed as our president and secretory. This should be corrected and stand Eobert Dick, president and yours truly secretary. However, that is not so important but getting around to what I had to say, Lou had received all the letters, telegrams, and instructions and therefore had to make most of the business an­nouncements. The cards which the University had sent were distributed among those present and each promised to give them their immediate coopera­tion. Several clubs wired greetings from their cities and w^ere promptly 
answered. Among those present were Lou Finske, Al Douds, Frank Con­way, Chuck Haskell, Louis Hough, Gene DiluUo, Bob Dick, Bill Dick, Fred Gusheart, Joe Myers, John Humphries, and Jim Hanlon. 
Though that list does not include all of our men in this district. Some were out of town and others were working or so fixed that they couldn't attend. Usually we have a fairly good turnout for our meetings. 
Well Jim that's about all I have to 
report so had better bring this to a 
close. If there is anything else in 
this district that you want attended 
to please let us hear from you and I 
personally will see that all in our 
power is done to accomplish it. 
Harry Lawrence, '29. 
DISTEICT OF COLUMBIA 
We had a very nice party last eve­
ning and also received your telegram, 
as well as wires from Father O'Hara, 
Elmer Layden and the Notre Dame 
Club of Chicago. We turned out 
about 75 strong, and everybody had 
an enjoyable evening, although we 
put on nothing special in the way of 
entertainment. Have discovered that 
a crowd of that type does better by 
entertaining themselves and getting 
acquainted, than they do with set 
speakers. Father Mooney and Father 
Hagerty were also with us and the 
former made a short talk, as did 
Dutch Bergmann and Vince Engels. 
We plan on having a dance also some time the latter part of May or the first of June and I believe it will take well. Nothing else e.xciting here and our weather is still backwards. 
Jim Hayes. 
GEEEN BAY Forewarned as to the descent of the Assistant Alumni Secretary upon an ordinarily peaceful community, the Green Bay Club planned its ob­servance of Universal Notre Dame Night for Wednesday, April 18 in­stead of for the preceding Monday, April 16. The A.A.S. deeply appre­ciated the thoughtfulness and cour­tesy. The observation took the form of a dinner in the Beaumont Hotel, Green Bay. Harold Londo, president of the club, presided and read the tel­egraphic greetings from Elmer Lay­den. Taking his reputation in his hands, Harold also presented the A.A.S., who with all possible dispatch (so as not to keep the members too long from the adjoining sample room) told the boys about the rea­sons for the new program of high school contacts, the latest develop­ments on the campus, etc. etc. These remarks were followed by a long ser­ies of questions as to the school and its policies. 

Mau, 1934 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
When the A.A.S. left at 8:30—he had to "catch" the night train for St. Paul—State Representative Bob­by Lynch was threatening to break into his squeeze play story and some one was suggesting that new officers be elected. 
The following were present at the dinner: Robert E. Lynch, John V. Diener (mayor of Green Bay), Earl 
L. Lambeau, Levi A. Geniesse, Ray Rueland, Arnold Biebel, Paul Kruez, Fred Burrall, -Norbert Christman, Dan Williams, Edmond J. Arvey, Harold Londo, Dr. Henry Atkinson, James Farrell, Robert E. Flatley, Earl Wilson, John Clancey, John Burrall, James Engels, and Emil Telfel. 
HIAWATHALAND The Hiawathaland Club had ten members present at the Universal Night meeting held at the Milliman Hotel in Iron Mountain, Michigan. The meeting was informal and pro­
•^ided interesting facts of what the fellows are doing. The members came from Upper Michigan and Northern Wisconsin and are widely scattered. 
Henry Lauerman is manager of Lloyd's Department Store at Menom­inee, Michigan. This is the largest and finest store in Hiawathaland. His brother, Joseph, is connected with the Marinette Knitting lElls. 
James Gleason is associated with his father in the gasoline business in the Menominee area. 
Robert Rigley is Professor of His­tory at Jordan College, Menominee. 
The crowd from Escanaba, Michi­gan, include John Lemmer, principal of the High School, and instructor in the Notre Dame summer school. Mrs. Lemmer is a degree holder from Notre Dame, one of the few such unions. 
Frank Aley is selling Chevrolets. 
Gerald Cleary is manager of the Wadham Oil Company. Matt Erick­son is one of his employees. Gerald is also sitting high in the council of the State Democratic Central Com­mittee. His brother, Lawrence, is in charge of the investigation of busi­ness conducted by the Department of Commerce in Northern Michigan. 
John Stack, an old student, is Aud­itor General of the State and a can­didate for Governor on the Demo­cratic party. 
Iron Mountain has three alumni. 
E. J. Dundon is the City Attorney and also represents the Home Own­ers' Loan Corporation in the com­munity. 
Michael J. Khoury is one of the rising attorneys in the county. The writer is engaged in the gen­eral insurance business. 
N. C. Bartholomew. 

INDIANAPOLIS Universal Notre Dame night was celebrated by the Indianapolis Club by a dinner at the Indianapolis Ath­letic Club. It was one of the largest meetings that we have had for some time. We had several short speeches by various members who were present, each of which, was very interesting. We were entertained during the evening by a group of boys from the Cathedral High School. The toastmaster was Harry Scott, who had charge of ar­rangements, and the entertainment was procured through the efforts of George Smith. We had several out of to^vn visit­ors. William O'Neill of Mishawaka, who is now Securities Commissioner for the State of Indiana was present and gave us a very interesting talk about the early days at Notre Dame; others who were there were Frank Centlivre of Fort Wayne, Joe Hilger and Bob Hilger of Columbus; Bob Holmes of South Bend, who is now working in Columbus; Joe Toolen of Anderson. Joe is now connected with the State Gross Income Tax depart­ment. We held our annual election of officers and the following were elected : Harry Scott, president; George Smith, vice-president; John Carton, secretary, and Tom Jones, treasurer. Our ex-president. Bob Kirby, is now secretary to Mayor Sullivan. Bud Markey, who is now in Wash­ington w^as in town for a couple of 
Leslie to Lecture at N. D. 
With the distinctive and highly popular Gilbert K. Ches­terton lectures at Notre Dame in 1930 as a well-remembered event, the University will dur­ing the second semester of 1934-3S be honored with the presence of Shane Leslie, world famous Irish author and editor. Mr. Leslie will give two class lectures a week, one on the ^vorks of Shakespeare and the other on the works of Swift, to groups of especially selected Senior students. He will also give one lecture a week which will be open to all interested students, faculty members and, if possible, alumni. 
The announcement of Mr. Leslie's addition to the Notre Dame faculty was made by Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, vice-president of the University, at the annual student publica­tions banquet on May 15. Mr. Leslie was at the University on April 24 to lecture to a capacity audience in Washington Hall on "The Oxford Movement." 
weeks around the first of the month. 
Well Jim, this is my swan song and 
will turn over my duties to my suc­
cessor, John Carton. 
John Rocap. 

JOLIET At the last meeting of our club at the Woodruff Inn hotel, 14 members attending, we made plans for our celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night and Mr. Silk, our president, named Messrs. Joe Adler, Charles Lennon and Ward Loeffler on the re-' freshment committee. Thomas Feeley and Bob Baskerville on service at the shack, and yours truly on arranging a program over the air. While the Universal N. D. Night broadcasting was going on the mem­bers of our club were at Larry Ad-ler's shack enjoying a fine dinner and listening to the program. After the broadcast Father O'Neil Joined the boys and was voted a "regular" by the gang. The evening was spent in entertainment and cards. Jimmy Martin carried away the honors in the card game, and although honors won't buy anything, the money that he took from Clarence Wilhelmi, Joe Adler, Joe Silk, Ed King and Charles Lennon was surely the down payment on a new Plymouth. Several times in "our column you will note that we have our affairs at Larry Adler's shack. The word "shack" is a misnomer as this is one of the beauty spots of WiU County and is a hobby of its owner, Larry Adler, who is very generous to our club. Thanks Larry. 
UNIVERSAL N. D. NIGHT BROADCAST 
Joliet, niinois 

TIME—Seven o'clock and the Notre Dame 
Club is on the air with the foUowine: pro-
Knun: 
Introduction of program Francis J. Dunn 
Theme Sons—"Victory March" Recording 
"Out of the Dusk To You" Gilbert N. Kinne 
Accomp. at piano by Miss Amelia Demscy 
Tenor solo 

"The Mountain Girl's Sunday" 
violin solo -.—lilrs. Hazel Johnson 
Accompanied at piano by Miss Ruth Martin 
(dcd. to memory of the late Knute Rockne) 
A telegram was read which was addressed to Mr. Joseph Silk, president, from Elmer Layden, expressing his warmest regards to our club. "Song of Songs"—tenor solo_GiIbert N. Kinne 
Accomp. at piano by Miss Amelia Demsey "The Old Refrain"-violin_Mrs. Hazel Johnson Accompanied at piano by Miss Ruth Martin "Rock Talks To His Men." Recording Talk Fr. Matthew CNeH. O.Carm. "Notre Dame and Its Environments." Felicitations to—Father O'Oonnell, C.S.C.. 
Father O'Hara and faculty, and closing 
remarks Francis J. Dunn "The Hike Song" Recording 
Ward Loeffler, who a few months ago was voted an honorary member of our club, is sojourning in Room 220 at St. Joseph hospital, Joliet, HI., with a bad knee and an appendix op­
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS May, IBSi 
eration. He is getting along very nicely. 
On April 21, 12 members of our club surprised Edward King, '99 (it being his birthday) at his home and the evening was spent in the' usual indoor sport. 
The boys are still raving about the marvelous talk Father O'Neil gave over the air on April 16. He talked for 15 minutes and our only regret was that it was too short. Father O'Neil is a Notre Dame man. He came from Mt. Carmel in Chicago, to be director of Catholic High of Joliet and what a job he is doing here. Over night he became popular and is loved and respected by all the students. Catholic High was formerly De La Salle High school and was taken over by the Carmelite Fathers last Sep­tember. 
Bob Duify, '31, showed that he was a class "A" promoter when he put on the civic banquet honoring the Cath­olic High National Catholic Cham­pionship Basketball team. It was a "wow" and 500 people left the ban­quet hall in smiles. Bob and his com­mittee sure worked hard to put it over. We're for Bob. 
KANSAS CITY 
Under the tireless leadership of Dan Foley, president, the Kansas City Club had an exceptionally suc­cessful observation of Universal Notre Dame Night. Films sent from the University, together with other films procured locally, were shown and much enjoyed. There was a large turnout. 
LA PORTE 
Dean James E. McCarthy, of the CoUege of Commerce, was the guest of the La Porte Club. No doubt Mac put over his story in a big way and the boys had a great time, but the secretary of the club hasn't got around yet to giving us the detailed dirt. 
LOS ANGELES 
Universal Notre Dame night, as celebrated here proved a tremendous success, arousing an activity and in­terest unprecedented in this club's history. Invitations had been issued to several prominent N. D. alumni who happen to be sojourning here at the moment and it looked for a time as though we were to have an all star program. CHARLIE BUTTER­WORTH and J. P. McEVOY were invited, the latter even going so far as to request a written notice of the affair, but owing to the pressure of external affairs both were unable to 

attend. (We sincerely trust we may have them with us on some future occasion.) The attendance was large, however, and . a satisfying disorder marked the occasion as speeches were made on all sides and entertainment by R.K.O. and Fox contract players interspersed the meal. 
According to custom officers were elected for the coming year. Ex Pres­ident AL SCOTT, '22, moved into office of Honorary President; TOM HEARN, '13, was elected President, and is to be congratulated as well on his being nominated district governor for the coming year: JIM KELLY, '00, was elected vice president; DOUG. DALEY, '30, was elected secretary, and TOM McKEON, 1890, cornered the club money bags. Sorta looks like the secretary, being a mere '30 youngster, got crossed up with the 
Veterans of the American Revolu­tion, but I don't think they'll mind nie much, if I'm good. 
All the boys were looking like ready money so it looks like the de­pression is over. REGIS M. BITT­NER, '29, was all dressed up, and he had us all fooled imtil 'twas dis­covered that he is wholesaling hand tailored clothes; FRED PICQUE, '30, has the shipping business on itsi feet at last; GENE KENNEDY, '25, threatens to get us a line or two of publicity in bank and trade journals through his connection with the Bank of America's lega l department; HENRY DOCKWEILER, '12 gave a couple of speeches at the banquet, 
• and although the boys insisted he run for President he poured honey all over the congregation and everybody felt swell and Henry chose not to 
COMMENCEMENT 1934 

Reunion Classes  
1884 1909 1929  50 year 25 year 5 year  
1881-1882-1883  ]  

1900-1901-1902-1903 J-Dix Plan 1919-1920-1921-1922] 
Rooms Provided Annual Banquet 
Golf Tournament Special Alumni Show National Catholic Track Meet Two Baseball Games Apostolic Del^ate Presiding Frank Walker, '09, 
Commencement Speaker. 
run; SID SIDENFADEN, '29, is now pushing Diesel fuel sales for Union Oil and is well satisfied with his progress. 
Doug Daley. 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI CLUB 
I suppose that you are interested to know what was done by the Louis­iana-Missippi club on the 16th. 
The Club celebrated with a dinner at the Monteleone Hotel, New Or­leans. Rev. J. L. Carrico, C.S.C, di­rector of studies, was the guest of the club. Brother Lambert, C.S.C, of the University accompanied'him. 
The two guests have been spending a few weeks along the Gulf coast in the interest of the University and to secure a deserved rest. They will re­main in these parts until May 1. 
The occasion served to bring a fairly good number of Alumni resid­ing in the city. 
Father Carrico gave a most inter­esting talk on the foundation and development of Notre Dame. In a word picture he presented the diffi­culties and vicissitudes that con­fronted Father Sorin, the founder, and his six companions, who nearly a century ago came to Indiana from France and in a forest primeval lo­cated the nucleus of an educational institution that has grown by leaps and boimds and today is the largest Catholic University in America. 
During the evening messages were received from Elmer F. Layden, Ath­letic Director at Notre Dame and from a nimiber of Alumni Clubs throughout the country. 
The dinner was presided over by 
P. E. Burke, President of the Club. 
Additional talks were made by Bro­ther Gerard, C. S. C, President of Holy Cross College, Joseph F. Dohan, Fabian Johnston, Alvin Hovey-King, 
C. A. Sporl, Jr., Lionel Favret, Jr., James Favret, John Davis and Bolan Burke. 
A most enjoyable evening was spent. It is the intention of the Club to hold other meetings during the year. 
I trust that the celebration was general throughout the country and that good will result therefrom. 
P. E. Burke. 
MILWAUKEE 
The Milwaukee N. D. club cele­brated Universal Notre Dame Night with a well attended banquet at the Cudworth Post, American Legion Clubhouse. Over fifty fellows at­tended the first real turnout since last summer's outing. 

Ever-witty Tom Kelly, 'IS, acted as toastmaster, and as usual, kept af­fairs moving at a lively pace. High­
May, 193i 
THE NoTBE DAME ALUMNUS 
lights' of the program included talks by Major J. Wittig and John Mcln­tyre, '84. We were very fortunate in having Bill Dooley of the Alumni Of­fice present to give us the latest in­formation about school. He spoke to an enthusiastic group which included several students of high school and parents of students at Notre Dame. These latter, Messrs. Brust, Carri­gan, Fromm, Pick, '00, and Prentiss, in turn spoke of their sons. 
Dr. Dundon, '14, acted as chairman for the election of officers. The pres­ent officers were renominated by Ed Yockey,'99, and were elected by the force of his persuasion. The officers are: President, Dud Pearson, '19; Vice-Presidents, To m Dunn , '27, Frank Madden, '17, and Bill Coakley, '11; Secretary and Treasurer, Paul Brust, '28. 
Lt. Dud Pearson planned an out­ing for the summer, sent telegrams to other N. D. clubs and proposed the presentation of a loving cup to be presented to an outstanding student of a local High School. 
We also listened to words from Bill Redden, '14, past president of the club and past It. governor of District 
IV. Joe Griffin, '28, who recently ar­rived in town, was introduced as was Charlie Sorenson of Neenah. From out of town also was John Brannon of Kenosha. Prominent in the dis­cussion that followed were Harold Watson, '25, Jim Rank, '29, and John Marshall. 
The Pick brothers of West Bend 

were prominent in their presence. 
Angelo and Gene Galdabini are now 
located in town and were present, 
likewise Bob and Dick Lutz. Almost 
like brothers are the Social Service 
Twins, Charley O'Neill and Al Roach. 
Frank Holdampf still appears to be happily married. Bill Brown is an­other of the younger married group and also Vic Woeste, Sheridan Mc­Cabe and Bob Beck. Among the singles in a close huddle were Jean LaBoule, Chauncey Branfort, Earl O'Brien, John Donohue and Norb Backes. 
Seen around the bar were Drs. Gebhard and Watt, also Freeman Fitzgerald, Ed Fitzpatrick, Fred Deutsch, Pat Powers, Ed Beaume, and many others whose names escape me now. You can be sure that we had a good time and that all are looking forward to our next event on the program. 
Paul Brust. 
MONTANA 

The Notre Dame Club of Montana held a meeting here in Helena at the Placer Hotel, Monday night, thus joining in wth the other clubs in the celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night. Our number was small but the dinner was most enjoyable. We did not elect officers at this time be­cause we felt that there were not enough of the Notre Dame men, here in the state, present. We expect to have a bigger meeting later this spring. 
One of the fellows present was Tom Hodgson, now of Minneapolis, who is connected with the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and has been here in Helena on business. As he was at Notre Dame last June for Commencement, he told us some very interesting happenings at that time. Tom, as you know, received his de­gree with the '24 Class. 
This Universal Notre Dame Night was of particular interest to Ed Brown of Townsend, who was with 
. us, in that he has a son of but a few days of age and he is already groom­ing him for Notre Dame. Ed showed me the baby and I advise that Elmer Layden reserve a berth for him on the 1954 football team. He is a real boy and his father is so proud of him that it is really tough to be aroimd Ed any longer. Mrs. Ed Bro\\Ti, as you know, was Alice Bal­four and was a St. Mary's girl. Be­sides young Earl Matt Balfour Brown, they have two little daugh­ters who are future St. Mary's girls. 
Particularly interesting at our meeting were the reminiscences of our club president. Earl Brown and Judge A. J. Galen. Both of these men played football back in the nine­ties, at which time, so they informed us, each player was his own coach. We also had a football luminary who played with Rock. You know him, no doubt—^he is Walt Yund, who played tackle on Rock's team. Also present was Dick Walsh of 1918 fame of the Architecture School. Dick IS busily engaged now conceiving 
P.W.A. work here in the state. 
Ed Brown, Sr., was having a hard time at the banquet deciding whether he would go to Callfomia this fall to see Notre Dame play Southern Cal or go back to Notre Dame and see one of the games there. As Ed can return and portray a game so graph­ically from the Idck-off to the final gun, we are thinking of chipping in and keep him on the road all fall, as this way we would see Notre Dame play. 
Joe Maronick was also present and invited us to attend the commence­ment at the Helena Business College from which he is soon to receive his degree in typeivriting and shorthand with a maxima cum laude. He stated that the only thing that would make this commencement less colorful than his Notre Dame commencement, was that he could not go to "Butch's" in Mishawaka the night before. 
The others of us present, you can see, were unable to do much talking 
as we were the listeners for the speakers just named. 
We enjoyed receiving a wire from Elmer Layden and also one from the Chicago Club. We felt that exchang­ing wires was a fine idea as it brought us a little bit closer to one another again. We sent wires to Father O'Donnell, Ehner, the Chi­cago Club and Frank C. Walker, our outstanding brother Montana sdum­nus. We rejoice with Frank in the honor that Notre Dame has bestowed upon him this June and rejoice with Notre Dame in having so loyal a son who is so worthy of the honor. 
This is all for this time, Jim, but 
I shall try to send in some more news 
later. 
Bill Jones. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 

The Notre Dame Club of Northern California had their party last even­ing in commemoration of Universal Notre Dame Night and fifteen of our alumni were present. 
The suggestion sent to yon some time ago that the Annual Notre Dame Night might be set forth to March 4, the date of Rockne's birth­day was again discussed and seems to merit further consideration. 
The Club proposes to create addi­tional interest in our organization by combining with the alumni of St. Mary's who are in the Bay Region and put on a dinner dance. May 29. With the gradual exodus of the de­pression. Club interest is bound to pick up. 
The idea of exchange of telegrams between Clubs and between the Club and the University was thought to be a good idea and next year there will be considably more of this, I am sure. We enjoyed the wire from Elmer Layden and also enjoyed re­ceiving the telegram from the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. Next year they will hear from us. 
Boyal H. Bosshard. 
NEW JERSEY 

The New Jersey Alumni Club cele­brated Universal Notre Dame Night with a banquet at Balturol Golf Club, Springfield, New Jersey. More than two hundred attended. A golf tour­nament was planned for the after­noon but it rained. 
The principal speakers were Jim Crowley, '26, Fordham coach; Lon Little, Columbia football coach; Har­vey Harmon, University of Pennsyl­vania football coach; Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, eastern representa­tive of the University; and Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., from the University itself. 
Frank A. Roan, '09, was toast­
238 May, 19Si
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
master. Arch Duncan, '21, was chairman of the committee in charge. Others included: Bob Phelan, '22, club president; Tom Farrell, '26 Eus Eiley, '28; Sal Bontempo, '30 Dan O'Neil, '26; Jack Saunders, '31 and Joe Byrne. Bill Carter. 
PEORIA 

. Frank Oherkoetter, of Blooming­ton, 111., reported on a recent visit to the Alumni Office that John Cas­sidy, '17, of Peoria, state director for Illinois of the National Emergency Council, was to be the honored guest and principal speaker at the Univer­sal Night gathering of the Peoria Club. No further details of the meet­ing have come in so far. 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N.Y. 
Universal N.D. night was duly ob­served by our club members and the report of the meeting is as follows: 
The Notre Dame Club of Syracuse and Central New York, with head­quarters at Syracuse, assembled for the observance of Universal Notre Dame night and the election of offi­cers for the ensuing year, on Mon­day, April 16. 
A hearty steak dinner was enjoyed at Mirbach's and the club members then adjourned to the stinerwert (tap-room) of Haberle's Brewery where the business meeting was held. Among the club members present were Leo Kelley, Duke Kinney, Jake Eckel, Ward Leahy, Vincent Brown, Ed Byrne, Bill Sullivan, Jim Hux­ford, Leo Paul, Vincent Brown and John Corcoran. A short report of the club's activities, correspondence and finances was rendered by Ed Byrne, the retiring secretary and, the elec­tion of officers for the coming year was held. Ed Byrne and Ward Leahy were the unanimous choice for presi­den and secretary-treasurer respec­tively. 
After the official closing of the club meeting the members enjoyed the hospitality of the Haberle Brewery while Duke Kinney, Jim Huxford and Jake Eckel debated the football possibilities for this fall. Bill Sulli­van, the popular "Capitalist" cloth­ier, spent a very strenuous evening arguing communism vs. capitalism with Leo Paul. Bill endeavored to explain why it was that he worked with his brain all day but at night his feet were always tired. The argu­ment terminated when Sully invited lieo down to help wash the store win­dows. 
- The club is planning a mid-summer outing, at some time and place to be decided later, having in mind golf, tennis and swimming followed by a dinner. 
Ward H. Leahy. 
PHILADELPHLA. 

One wonders how to record such a gathering as that of Universal Notre Dame Night. Perhaps, it were best chronologically, until time is lost in the early hours, sagas we youngsters could never even imagine seem al­most unbelievable, and The Night is no more. As finances never worry us, when we have some, G. T. DEGAN'S (we suggest "Greater Things" instead of "Good Time," for the "G.T.") cheering Treasurer's re­port, with a surplus for the first time since when, be given first mention. Then Governor ED BAILEY'S Con­stitution, as a ponderous tome, cov­ering everything from damages to the conduct of families, showed that be­ing such a big-shot is not all glory. 
Deserving the center of the stage, although not in order, we thank Coach Elmer Layden for his tele­gram, and hope Postal Telegraph (Adv.) got ours off. Then, as one good fellow to another, retiring Pres­ident HARRY FRANCIS' reading of your kind letter of thanks for the Club's recent opportunity to have you as guest can't be overlooked. Finally, the anti-climax of the eve­ning: the election of officers. If GUS DESCH can lead our Club as once he did the world's best hurdlers (and the next NIGHT will show that he has done so), yours truly will have the honor of recording the activities of the best Notre Dame Club. Not only as a recognition of his bringing a half dozen cohorts the many weary miles from Harrisburg, but iso that we may have a representative on the Governor's doorstep, JOE FAEREL carried off the Vice-Presidency. After the above pabulum, you might know 
G.T. is still our Treasurer. 
We missed "Chief" Neeson—^pres­ent at Notre Dame—but were glad of his being at the home town cele­bration of the custom inaugurated during his term as President of the national association. AnA now to the climax. 
Tom Daly (we won't tell when he left the Indiana dunes), more than justifying the envied position he holds as the city's foremost rhymer of choking couplets, with some of Fr. Cavanaugh's fluency. Rock's pointed­ness, and his own Italian dialect, out-bananas the original vendor. This scribe's best would be poor enough to chronicle his treat. We can only thank him for braving his sick-bed, and Notre Dame for having made him one of our own. 
The hours have passed to those in which '84 is '34 when Gipp teams with Lukats, when O'Malley full-backed those baseball-clad boys and lifted the lazy Juniors out of bed, when short stories are only so in name, when the Degans could smoke in the room that is now Fr. Steiner's, and to even gaze at St. Mary's was matter for suspension, when the fif­teen Seniors that came through the basement window of Corby after the '32 Ball appear no less heroes than the stalwarts of a decade ago, who stood the white robes of ignorance, when the Mules and their feet are no greater than those who made 13-12 the best known score in Notre Dame football. We can but end with the observation that that—you nor we can define it—^is part of what Notre Dame men gather to salute on this occasion, a custom we hope to honor many times. 
Tom Magee. 
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 

"Universal Notre Dame Night" was fittingly observed by the Club with a dinner and smoker at the St. Nicholas Hotel. Rev. George M. Link, Direc­tor of Boy Guidance in the summer schools of 1927-28-29 and nationally known naturalist, was the speaker. Incidentally he is very much inter­ested in the club. Twenty-six men attended, including graduates, for­mer students and prospects. Interest was evidenced by the wide range of attendance—^from John Britz of '88­'89 and James Quinn '97 down to two members of the class of '33. Congratulatory letters were read from Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, and Elmer Layden. Our attendance was cut down due to the County chairman elections—yes there are Notre Dame offspring of Thomas Jefferson in Blinois also. 
Ed. Mandeville '26 was present from Jacksonville and regrets were received from "Point" Downing, '14, (Decatur) and Mike Seyfrit '23 (Carlinville) for the reason given above. The two members of the Boujon family in Beardstown who attended Notre Dame are now resid­ing in Dayton and California re­spectively. 
Our next club gathertng is con­templated for Mother's Day. It will be designated as the annual com­munion day of the Club, to be fol­lowed by a breakfast at which mothers and wives of the men will be guests. We expect a big turnout. 
The press has given us a great deal of publicity and continually ask­ing for more. They have yet to be disappointed. 
Roscoe Bonjean (ex '28) received the Democratic nomination for Coun­ty Judge by a wide margin. 
The best wishes of the Club to yourself and Jim Armstrong. If I did not acknowledge your letter and list of Notre Dame men in this lo­cality I hope I'm pardoned — and many thanks. 
Bob Graham. 

Majf, ISSJf THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 239 
TWIN CITIES 

Father J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C, professor of chemistry at the Univer­sity and an internationally famous figure in the chemical world, was the guest of honor of the Twin City-Notre Dame Club at its Universal Notre Dame Night meeting. Father Nieuwland spoke informally to a large group of N. D. men; and sev­eral days afterward, when the Assist­ant Alumni Secretary reached St. Paul and Minneapolis, they were still talking about the inspiration and hu­mor of his remarks. To say, in the vernacular, that he "went over big" is a very mild way of putting it. Gene O'Brien, president of the club, arranged the meeting. 
TRIPLE CITIES The Triple Cities Alumni Club of the University of Notre Dame ob­served Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner and meeting at the Perrault Hotel in Johnson City. Dur­ing the course of the evening, election of officers was held and yours truly was elected Secretry. So here goes my first attempt at reporting. Felicitations were received from Elmer Layden and the Chicago Club, which were graciously received by the members present. Local Station WNBF broadcasted the meeting, through the courtesy of Mr. Tom Mc­Mahon and gave the School some very good advertising. Ways and means of how we could keep Notre Dame before the public were discussed and also plans for contacting prospective students were made. The Triple Cities Club is 100 per cent behind your program of in­teresting boys in Notre Dame. Plans were laid for a joint dinner and meeting to be held, after the students return to their homes, dur­ing the month of June. Election of Officers as stated be­fore was held %vith the folIo\ving re­elections: Joseph Carey, president; Edwar d O'Brien, vice-president; Donald Kennedy, treasurer. By way of reporting also might mention here what the members of the Alumni Club here are doing for the benefit of their friends in other parts of the country: Ted Grifiin, '29, has just taken his New York State Bar examination and is awaiting the outcome. He is associated with a local law firm. Dan­iel McAvoy, student '22, is a member of the leading firm of lawyers in this city—Lee, Levine, and McAvoy. Ed­ward O'Brien, student '24-'25 is also a member of the above firm. John O'Loughlin, student '23, is associated with the law firm of Edward Eoman in this city. William Miner, '21, maintains a law ofiice in Endicott. Harold Kelly, '29, is working vrith his father who has a Coal and Gas busi­
ness in Endicott. James Shaffer, '30, aand Joseph Hennessy, '30, are em­ployed by the International Business Machines in Endicott. Bob Rice, Jr., student, '27 to '30, is at the present time sojourning in Europe. Wm. Hogan, '32, is teaching school in Binghamton. Joseph Kane, '28, is also teaching school. 
Bud Kane, '29, is completing his studies at the University of Notre Dame. Prank Conole, student, '27 to '29 is completing his medical studies at the Jefferson Medical College. Pet­er J. Wacks, '30, is finishing his Law studies at Cornell University. Ward­en Kane, '27, is practicing medicine in Rochester. Rev. Joseph B. Toomey, '26, is connected with the Catholic Charities Office in Syracuse. A. J. McCormack, '33, is working for his father. Joseph Carey, '32, is con­nected with the firm of Green and Wolcott, CPA in Binghamton. 
Donald Kennedy, '21, has an In­surance Agency in Binghamton. John O'Brien, student '27 to '29 is com­pleting his Medical Studies at the University of Boston this June. John Gilson, student '28, is working for the Endicott-Johnson Corporation in Syracuse. James Nolan, student '32, and '33 is working for the CWA as a timekeeper. Wm. Allan Page, '27, is doing literary work in this city. 
And last but not least, I am work­ing in the City Engineer's OflSce. 
I am still waiting for that crown you said would follow when you left after your visit here. 
Regis McNamara, '33. 
TOLEDO 

It's been a long time between letters as I've been saving all the news for the final edition. Outstand­ing in the calendar of events of the Toledo Club for the past six months were the annual Christmas Dance, Pat Manion's lecture and Universal Notre Dame Night. 
The Christmas dance, which was attended by more than 125 couples, was held at the Chateau-LaFrance Club on Dec. 27. Urban Gradel and Fred Sprenger were the chief insti­gators of this memorable party and did a mighty fine job of it. 
On St. Patrick's evening the in­imitable and irrepressible Pat Man-ion visited Toledo to speak before the Saturday Night Forum on the sub­ject of the "Constitutionality of the New Deal." Addressing his audience as the "aristocracy of disputation" the great constitutional Irishman won the favor of the crowd by the charm and eloquence of his splendid dic­tion. ' In the discussion that followed the 'late" Mr. Manion was particu­larly nimble of mind and wit. 
Prior to the lecture Pat was the dinner guest of the Club. Dr. John 
T. Murphy presided as chairman over this informal gathering and a goodly portion of local alumni were in at­tendance. Pat, of course, responded with one of those tall stories for which he is so justly famous. 
The Universal Notre Dame Night party was held at the University Club with John Hurley in charge of the arrangements. Assistant coach, Chet Grant was the guest of honor and gave a very excellent account of the new athletic policy at Notre Dame, 
In passing I might mention the be­reavement of Kay and Joseph Till­man whose father and brother died during the. month of January past. 
C. Donald McColl, ye olde Boy Guider, has returned from St. Louis and has since devoted his time and effort in Toledo to.the sale of Chev­rolets. 
Joe Wetli. 
TRI-CITIES 

In order to eliminate a few of the "where y'at now and wotcha doins" at the Commencement Exercises in June, perhaps it wouldn't be a bad idea if the secretaries of the local Notre Dame clubs gave out a little of the latest info' about the prodigies of their respective clubs. It this had been done sooner in the case of the Tri-City club, it might have served also to lighten the deluge of calls and letters that came to its secretary ask­ing "why the 'ell was I omitted" from the last roundup and inquiring about the whereabouts of others whose names did not appear. Confidentially Jim, I was among those that were missing. 
My predecessor, Henry M. McCul­lough, wrote a very good account of the results of his corrall for the Jan­uary ALUMNUS, and although in­complete, it was as complete as was possible at that time. However, a lot of the fellows have come out of hid­ing since then and have furnished us with a little gossip about themselves and others. Anyway, here are the 'Svhereabonts and whys" of our gang. I trust that someone will ad­vise me if I miss any. 
Need I say anything about our ath­lete director and head coach, Elmer Layden! Our president, Richard B. Swift, and Henry C. Wurzer, the chairman of the executive committee for the Layden testimonial dinner here March 1, still, from force of habit, occasionally find themselves calling one another about details for that affair. However, "Dick" does find time now to take care of some of his legal practice, and to keep George Vander Vennett, who is associated with the law firm of Smith and Swift, Kahl Building, Davenport, on the straight and narrow path to legal fame. Henry Wurzer had added to' his labors as president of the KaU 
240 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS May, 19Si. 
Investment Company by being elected to the presidency of the Blackhawk Hotels Corporation recently. Also in the Kahl Building can he found Cy 
U. Nolan, another graduate of the Notre Dame College of Law. His brother Eoger, he tells us, is located in Davenport with a railroad insur­ance agency there. 
Moving around Davenport we find Elmer Besten, ex-New York Giants, in the Union Bank Building, also practicing law. Elmer recently was appointed Justice of the Peace to fill the unexpired term of Merle F. Wells, newly elected mayor of Davenport. The W. G. Block Company of Daven­port and Muscatine, Iowa, still claims the services of Bob Van Lent, who, as we understand it, is giving Jim Skelly, assodated with the Alpha Cement Company, plenty of competi­tion for the building material busi­ness in that territory. 
In the McCullough family, William 

J. is retired from active business, but keeps occupied taking care of his tenants. Dr. Bert is practicing medi­cine in Davenport, while Henry M. has the Davenport agency for the Northwest Mutual Life Insurance Company of Milwaukee. All three can be found in the McCullough Building. V. 0. Figge, our very ca­pable treasurer, is the executive vice-president of the Davenport Bank and Trust Company. 
Among the other Davenporters are Leo Heringer, president and treas­urer of the P. and A. Roofing Com­pany, Frank Thul, connected with the United States Engineers here, Dan­iel Keeler, of the Keeler Construc­tion Company, who had charge of the construction of the sea wall in con­nection with the Mississippi lock and dam project here, on which Ed Scherer and Lou "Red" Salmon have been engaged for the past two years with the Healy Construction Com­pany. R. W. Slagle is associated with Adams and Adams, wholesale radio distributors, of Davenport. Cletus Banworth and the Reverend Raphael Maher are professors of mathematics and English, respectively, at St. Am­brose College, Davenport, At the present time, the whereabouts of Carl Kaschewski is unknown, although it is reported that he is located in Davenport. 
Over in Moline, where they are still fighting with Davenport about airports while Rock Islanders are wondering which city has the poorer one, our vice-president J. Ralph Coryn, is a member of the wholesale butter and egg firm of C. L. Coryn and Son, and "iCharles SoUo, repre­sents the Notre Dame Law School in the largest law firm in that city, along with Peter Meersman who has his law offices in the Moline State Bank Building. His brother, Joseph Meersman, is with the John Deere Harvester Company, while Charles King is praising the wares of the In­ternational Harvester Company here. Bernard F. O'Brien, a newly discov­ered member of our club, is treasurer of Desaulniers and Company, the largest printing concern in the Tri-Cities. 
And now for Rock Island, the hub of the Tri-Cities. (Just a little civic pride, that's all, Jim.) Oscar P. Smith, the oldest local grad and mem­ber of the great first Notre Dame baseball team, keeps busy with his realty interests here. Close behind him is James P. Murphy, recently re­appointed master in chancery of Rock Island County. (It's geeting to be a habit now.) He now occupies a suite of rooms which serves as law offices for Murphy and Murphy. His son, Hayes P., is the junior member of the firm. 
Leo Herbert has moved his law of­fices from the Best to the Safety Building. Leo was re-elected to a second term as president of the Tri-City Commercial Bowling Leagues, and recently captained his team to rather high scores in the A. B. C. tourney in Peoria and the State bowl­ing meet in Aurora. George A. Uhl­meyer is an industrial engineer with the Peoples Power Company of Mo­line, and for some time has been sharing his evenings with a daughter, Jacqueline. His brother Vance, of sage and sulphur fame, is now con­nected with the Peoples Light Com­pany of Davenport. He admitted to George Vander Vennett and me that he is living in Davenport now, but those near to him maintain that he still can he found at his home in Rock Island during short intervals during the morning and early eve­ning. 
Thomas E. Davis is with Dan Keeler and his construction firm in Davenport, and Bodie Andrews, al­though last seen in Rock Island, is reported as sojourning somewhere out on the west coast. Francis King, who claims East Moline as his legal residence, can he found in the Rock Island County Court House under the title of "State's Attorney," while yours sincerely is still taking to find the spot spot in some hard-boiled newspaper editor's heart. (Casting no reflections at you, Jim.) 
Among the out-of-towners who pay their allegiance to the Tri-City club are Forrest Cotton, present coach at Catholic University, and Murray Hickey Ley, who represents the Hickey Brothers Interests in Wash­ington, D. C. In Muscatine there are John and Robert Roach, invest­ors, and Paul Barry, of the Barry Maniifacturing Company. Herman Ziffren is married and practicing law in Elkhart, Indiana, while Charles -Burke was reported last as commut­ing between Davenport and Detroit. 
Students from the Tri-Cities now enrolled at Notre Dame are Myron Murphy, Joseph Repine, Steve Miller, and Harry Cozad, Jr., of Rock Is­land, and Wells Robison, John Mc­Donnell, D. J. Hickey, HI, Francis "Mike" Layden, and Marcellus Geerts, all of Davenport. Thomas Walsh, Jr., of Davenport, has trans­ferred his endeavors to St. Ambrose College, Davenport. Myron Murphy, Joe Repine, and Wells Robison are scheduled to be graduated in June. 
Don't know how many of us will be there for the exercises, but until then, 
Arthur L. Himhert. 

BROTHER MARTIN DIES 
Countless Notre Dame alumni, es­pecially in the ranks of former stu­dent editors, lost a kind and generous friend when Brother Martin, C.S.C, for 20 years head of the press room of the Ave Maria Press on the the campus, died April 10, at the age of 44. Brother Martin's unfail­ing good humor and understanding nature gained for him the affection of every one with whom he came in contact. 
He was bom Oct. 25, 1889, in Aurora, Kans., and attended St. Ben­edict's college, Atchison, Kans., be­fore coming to Notre Dame. He en­tered the St. Joseph novitiate here March 19, 1913, and made his final profession of vows in the brotherhood of the Congregation of Holy Cross August 15, 1916. 
In the meantime he was appointed to the position he held at the time of his death. He was a prefect in St. Edward's residence hall almost all of his 20 years at Notre Dame, both when the hall was devoted to the minims or preparatory students and more recently when it was turned over to the University students. 
Brother Martin underwent an .op­

"eration for the removal of ulcers in December. A week before his death he underwent another operation for the removal of his gall bladder. 
The Rev. John P. O'Hara, C.S.C, vice-president and prefect of religion at Notre Dame, said of Brother Mar­tin, "He was a very fine religious. He was an excellent worker and the effi­ciency of the printing office was greatly increased by him. Almost all new equipment was put in during his time." 
His hobby was golf and he consist­ently shot in the 70's on the very difficult Willia m J. Burke-Notre Dame course, despite the fact that he had only the partial use of one hand. 
May, 1934 TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 241 
=THE ALUMNI: 
• BIRTHS A note from Fred Steers, '11, in­cludes . . . "Official records disclose that EDWARD FIGEL, '11, holds the Class championship for large families. 
He was recently presented •svith No. 8, a son." 
We wish to make the belated an­nouncement of the arrival of a son to Mr. and Mrs. NOBEL KIZER, '25, on January 20th. 
We have also received word of the arrival of a son, Allan Francis, to Mr. and Mrs. AL A. KIRK, '26, on March 21st. 
Dr. and Mrs. URBAN E. GEB­HARD, '26, announce the birth of a daughter, Yvonne Clare, on February 3rd, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
Mr. and Mrs. RONALD E. RICH, '28, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Mary Virginia, on March 30, South Bend, Indiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM O'HARA, '28, announce the arrival of Kathryn Patricia, on April 19th. 
Mr. and Mrs. AUGUST T. SIERON, '30, announce the arrival of a son, Frederick August, on Jan­uary 25th. 
Mr. and Mrs. H. LOUIS STET­TLER, Jr., '30, are the parents of a son, John Marwitz, bom in April. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN MINER HUGHES, '31, announce the birth of a son, John Miner, Jr., on April 22nd, at Jacksonville, Florida. 
BYRON V. KANALEY, the proud grandfather, sends word of the ar­rival of a son to Mr. and Mrs. FRED 
C. MILLER, '29, on April 25th, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
A letter from NORBERT HAR­BERT, '30, contains the belated an­nouncement of the arrival of his son, Bruce Ray, last September 4th. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN M. "ROME" DUGAN, '27, are the proud parents of a daughter. 
• ENGAGEMENTS 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Mayme Smith, of South Bend, Indiana, to ALEX WILSON, '33. The marriage will take place in Chicago, June 20th. 
A letter from HUGH MAGEVNEY, Jr., '25, contains the announcement of his engagement to Miss Marguerite Mountcastle, of Knoxville, Tennessee. The wedding will take place on June 2nd. 
• MARRIAGES 
The marriage of Mrs. Martina Pack, of Newcastle, Pa., and JAMES 
L. O'TOOLE, Jr., '21, of Pittsburgh, Pa., took place on April 2nd at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Eva Owens, South Bend, In­diana, and PATRICK RIGLEY, ex. '27, were married on April 14th, at St. Patrick's Church, South Bend, Indiana. 
The marriage of Miss Maria Louisa Padilla Munoz and RAUL FLORES, '27, took place in Mexico City, Mex­ico, on April 14th. 
Jlr. and Mrs. Wm. Sherman an­nounce the marriage of their daugh­ter, Helen Catherine, to JOHN B. BUSCHEMEYER, '28, on April 12th at Church of St. Borromeo, Louis­ville, Kentucky. 
Mr. and Mrs. John Lane, of Forest Park, Illinois, announce the marriage of their daughter, Antoinette, to CHARLES E. HOOVER, '29. The wedding took place at St. Bemadine's Church on February 11th. JOHN R. HOOVER, '29, sei-ved as best man. 
Miss Dorothy Anne Creighton and JOSEPH HARNEY, '31, were mar­ried recently in Chicago. 
Miss Doris Scott, of Canaseraga, New York, and HOWARD MALON­EY, ex. '31, were married last Sep­tember 20th. JOHNNY ZABACK, '31, who served as best man, sent the belated announcement. 
Miss Bah Zizer, South Bend, Indi­ana, and ALFRED SCHEEER, '30, were married at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, on April 25th. 
The marriage of Miss Maiy Swords, of Nashville, Tenn., and ROBERT KING BRANNON, '30, of Dennison, Iowa, took place on May 3rd at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, Indiana. THOMAS BRADLEY, '30, served as best man. 
The marriage of Miss Grace Ren­aud, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Renaud, Rochester, New York, and KARL T. BRENNAN, '30, of Avon, New York, took place April 16th in St. Andrew's Church, Rochester. DAN SULLIVAN, '30, served as best man. 
Miss Mae Ryan, South Bend, In­diana, and PAUL D. McCONNELL, '32, of Springfield, Illinois wer e married on April 17th at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. John D. Wadley an­nounce the marriage of their daugh­ter Sa Laynor Lee, to LOUIS PSEN­CIK, Jr., '32, on April 14th in Smith-ville, Texas. 
Miss Florence De A^eeschower, South Bend, Indiana, and WILLIAM 
M. CANNON, '33, were married on April 7th in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Anne Jane­sheski and EDWARD J. CRONIN, '30, took place on May 5, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
• DEATHS 
ALEXANDER BECKMAN, a stu­dent at Notre Dame in 1888 and 1889, died on January 10, at his home in Ottawa, Ohio. He was the father of EDWARD BECKMAN, '15, of Manhasset, New York. 
Sister Mary Angelita, B.V.M., 
M.A. 1930, died at Mount Carmel Infirmary, Dubuque, Iowa, on April 
3. Sister Angelita was head of the English department at Mundelein College, Chicago, Illinois. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathy to: JOSEPH MENGER, '25, upon the death of his mother; to EDWIN J. LYNCH, '10, upon the death of his father; to ELROY E. HABERT, '26, upon the death of his wife; to JOHN J. HURLEY, '33, upon the death of his mother; to WILLIAM C. BLIND, '32, upon the death of his grandmother; to RALPH DALTON, '31, upon the death of his mother; to GEORGE DELANA, '14, and EDWARD DELAND, '11, upon the death of their father; to Rev. PETER E. HEBERT, O.S.C, '10, upon the death of his brother; to JO­SEPH BUCHANAN, ex. '32, upon the death of his mother; to PAUL DONOVAN, '10, upon the death of his father; to THOMAS O'MEARA. '01, upon the death of his father, and to THOMAS O'MEARA, Jr., '33, upon the death of his grandfather; to JOHN O'NEIL, '29, upon the death of his mother; to LAWRENCE HAL­TER, '31, upon the death of his mother. 
Mrs. Geoxge Geopfrich, mother of Rudolph Goepfrich, '26, and Tony Goepfrich, a former prep student at Notre Dame, and aunt of Rev. Fran­cis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, died in Sooth Bend on April 29. 
THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNUS May, 19Si 
• PERSONALS 
1902 

The Alumni Office enjoyed recent­ly a very happy visit with Bill Mc­Bride, one of the several McBride boys who attended Notre Dame around the turn of the century. Bill lived for many years in New York City, but has recently moved to Chi­cago. A stranger to Notre Dame for decades, he promised to see more of the University from now on. While on the campus he renewed acquaint­ances with some of his old friends among the facultj-. 
1914 

T. N. T. News, pubUshed fay the Northern Trust Company, Chicago, in a recent edition had the following 
(in part) to say of AI King who died suddenly on March 29: 
One of the most valuable officers of The Northern Trust Company, Albert Vincent King, was stricken with a heart attack yesterday at noon, dy­ing immediately. 
Al King, as he was affectionately known by all of his associates, came to The Northern Trust Company on January 25, 1918 as a clerk in the Trust Department. On August 1, 1923 he was placed in charge of the Tax Division and on January 1, 1930 the Directors elected him an Assist­ant Secretary. 
Al King specialized in the field of taxation. He was an outstanding fig­ure in that work, being recognized throughout the city as an expert in Illinois and Federal tax matters. 
Al's was a rare combination which endeared him to everyone; congenial, quick of wit and an authority in his line of work, he made a host of friends and held them. 
Our hearts are filled with sjTn­pathy for his wife and the young family who survive him. 
1915 

Ray Kelly, corporation counsel for the city of Detroit, driving through to Indianapolis with his wife, stopped off for a visit on the campus on May 1 and looked up several of his old friends. 
1916 

Tom Holland, '16, has been re­elected a municipal judge in Kansas City, Missouri. He is also a radio actor: The proceedings of his court are broadcast for a half hour each morning by a Kansas City station. One of the most interesting features on the air, they say down there. 
Al Fries, Peru, Indiana, was steered into the Alumni Office by Professor Maurus when he visited the campus one day recently. Bemie Voll, South Bender, was also in the Maurus-Pries party but was stopped by the Haley entanglements before he reached the nerve center of the campus. 
1917 

Paul Fogarty recently had a letter from John Urban Riley, stating that "Duke" is now advertising manager for the publication Leisure, the pur­pose of which is fostering New Eng­land summer resorts. Let's have a copy some time, "Duke." 
Incidentally, we are informed that one of Paul's favorite haunts is the Yacht Club Bar of the Edgewater Beach hotel in Chicago. 
Rig Sackley, while in Springfield, Illinois, recently, had a telephone conversation with "Red" Schlipf, who is enjoying an excellent legal prac­tice there. 
George Kowalski, of Harvey's Pie House fame, is very active with Gen­eral Outdoor Advertising in Chicago. George spends most of his leisure time at the Lake Shore Athletic club. 
Bill Curley, of Walsh Hall Chick's fame, is assistant city editor of the Chicago Evening American, and can be seen frequently at sporting events at the stadium. 
A few weeks ago Rig Sackley met a priest from Superior, Wisconsin, at the Loyola National Catholic High School Basketball tournament, who knew Bill Stack and the May broth­ers very well. The twins are with father in the furniture business. 
Now listen, my classmates. Rig Sackley is responsible for the fact that we have any notes at all this month. He's done his part. You do yours. Write and give me any "dope" you have on any of the seventeeners, including yourself. Address me at my office, 520 No. Michigan avenue, Chicago, or my home, 104 South Un­ion street, Elgin, Illinois. 
Ed McOsker, 
1919 

Ted Rademaker, formerly of Mar­ion and Indianapolis, is now in Peru, Indiana, working for the Peru Foun­dry Company. He's associated there \vith Al Fries, '16. 
1920 

As a culmination of nearly ten years service \rith the Fidelity Mu­tual Life Insurance Co., of Philadel­phia, Pa., James H. Brennan, '20, celebrated his return from an east­ern conference '(vith the announce­ment of the formation of the firm of SchoU and Brennan, to be General Agents of the Fidelity Mutual Life Insurance in Chicago. 
Mr. Brennan's connection with the Company is particularly character­ized by the fact that during the last seven years of his ten, he has ranked with the ten leading producers in this Company throughout the Unite d States. 
1924 

Ray Brady, prominent attorney in Salt Lake City, Utah, appeared re­cently as defense counsel in a radio trial for murder being conducted by station KDYL of Salt Lake City. His picture was prominent in a studio publication issued by KDYL. Ray is a former assistant county attorney for Salt Lake County and president of the Notre Dame Club of Utah. 
Albert D. Castellini, '24, has formed a law partnership with W. Donald Hall, Carl W. Frey and Over­ton D. Jackson, offices 1001-2-3 Atlas Bank Building, Cincinnati, 0. 
Al is a member of the American Bar Association, the Elks, Cincinnati Notre Dame club. Phi Sigma Beta, and the Societa d' Union E. Fratell­anza, of which he is a past president. 
•In
 1922 he was a delegate from In­diana, to represent the United States at the World Irish Race Congress, held in Paris, France. In 1928 he studied the Italian language at Rome and at the University of Siena, Italy. 

W.
 Donald Hall is special assistant attorney general, representing the newly formed Ohio Recovery Admin­istration, in charge of all trade and Industrial Codes of Fair Competition in Ohio. 


1925 

Morris D. Feldman has opened a law office in the Building and Loan Tower in South Bend. Following his graduation from the Law School Morris went into the automobile busi­ness in South Bend and became the local Buick distributor. He retired from the motor. field in January, 1933 and was recently admitted to the Indiana bar. 
1927 

I recently have seen a number of the boys and no doubt you will be interested in the following comments for the bulletin: 
John Geary censored me for not having commented on the arrival of either of his tivo children. I saw them a week ago and he has every reason to feel like the well known proud father. 
Met Dick Hanousek at a convention in Peoria last week-end, he hasn't changed a bit. He has an enviable position with the Purity Bakeries Co. 
Also visited with Don O'Meara while in Peoria and from all indica­tions he is doing very well, having settled down to the business of rais­ing a dandy family. 
Ben Hirsh passed word along that 

May, 19Si 243 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
B. Epstein (Eppy) is now married and we all hope he has loads of luck and congratulate him. 
Had the pleasure of visiting with Clarence Kaiser (Ki) of '25, about a week ago. He is now in Chicago, having left South Bend after these many years. 
Some of the boys of '28 or '29, may 
be interested to know that Al Welz­
enbach is happily married and is in 
business with his father in Peoria. 
Rave to dash to a sales meeting 
now, but will write some more news 
soon. 
Ed DeClerq. 
1928 

Hemy Massman is the engineer in charge of a federal construction job on the Missouri River, at Fort Peck, Montana, on which one and a half million dollai-s is to be expended. The constniction company headed by Heniy's father is doing the work. 
I have been with the Banco Nac­ional de Mexico for the past three months in the Foreign Exchange De­partment, in the capacity of Exchange Trader. If there is anything in the way of helping out any Mexican students there at school, or of ar­ranging matters for you or your "esposa" as regards Mexican Pesos, drafts, collections, trade information, mortality statistics, or divorces—do not fail to let me know. 
Give my very best to my good friend Louie, whom I shall ivrite someday in the near future. Tell him that Larry CuUiney, alias "the Sur­rogate" (as he is now known) will be delivering something soon for some coming issue of our highly es­teemed journal. 
Accepting my very best personal regards, and remember me to all our mutual friends, including Mr. Arthur Haley, "behind the goal posts—^re­gardless." 
Arthur L. Denchfield, Jr. 

Dear Lou: This epistle will undoubtedly be quite unexpected in view of the lapse of time since you requested a line from me regarding the New York '28 crowd. Inasmuch as correspond­ence comprises the major part of my work with the Guaranty Trust Co., of New York, I find it exceedingly difficult to engage in further corre­spondence after working hours even though such correspondence be of the social variety. I shall confine my remarks chiefly to members of the '28 group who, at one time or another, lived in the neghborhood of Columbia University. Several of this group are now "ex­iles" including Conmey and Layne, now residing in the 70's, who have 
stuck together like Amos and Andy. 
Jim Conmey is ever the suave 
broker, more sartorially corrcc than 
the Prince of Wales. Moreover, he 
is conversant with the lore of the 
"Street" back to the time when the 
"Big Board" was a spreading button­
wood tree. Despite his proximity to 
the omni-present conflict between 
"bull" and "bear," his outlook, ex­
cept of course for an occasional lapse 
during the recent blight, has re­
mained as cheerful as a May morn­
ing. 
As for Walt Layne, he just edits, and edits, and edits, and looks us up in July and August at the beach. Walter's life is not so humdrum; 'tis said that he trips along life's high­way at a "Glenn Cunningham" pace as gay as a prom fox-trot. 
Now take Bemie Garber (if you will). He plays bridge, tennis, check­ers, ping-pong; he reads, writes, dances, smokes, chews, drinks, and guides fair young things about the New Man House and surrounding grounds. Our Bemie even works. 
Back from his world tour came Art Denchfield speaking 14 languages including the government alphabeti­cal code. Art's legal residence is now in our midst and we hope he stays nearby for a long time to tell us of the ox-eyed senoritas in las Argen­tinas. / ' 
Out in the provinces is our old comrade of the legion, John McMa­hon. Mac, who heretofore swung a talented pencil for the local Sun, is now keeping the night wires hot for the A.P. in Pgh. .1 was glad to see 
.Mac last Michaelmas and to holler "Skoal" at him and to have him hol­ler "Skoal" at me. Somnus as a household god has been a foul ball since Mac sped westward; in this connection we'd like to see the old scribe back again in his tower hurl­ing bricks at 115th street cats. 
Bill Cronin who was in our squad­ron for a year or so now commutes to Washington where he lends valu­able services to the government. I saw Bill and Helen around the turn of the year, and their young scion, Vaughn, I would say, should be a hard-nmning halfback at Alma Ma­ter along about 1950 or so. 
Although not domiciled in the vi­cinity of llfith street, tw-o honored members of our crowd are George Byrne and Bud Callagy. George win­ters in Miami, where he is at present, and summers at Eye Beach where (to quote that old bard, Layne) "he can see the Sound and hear the sea." George has been one of my best friends since I've been in the city and we've kept in close touch through the years. 
Bud Callagy has become a boun­cing barrister and spends much of his time expondning his Blackstone in Washington. We see him week-ends at the local Centre Club, to which club practically all our gang belongs, and we engage in a rough-and-tumble game of ping pong or ten pins. 
Also doing that "legal thing" is Joe Cannon, of the Vermont Can­nons, who holds forth on 116th street, as well as Art Canty, in Newark. 
Others formerly on our roster, but from classes other than '28, are Pen­nie Pendergast, Jim Fitzpatrick, Prank Doan, Larry Moore, and Tom Eyan. These fellows have left for the hinterlands but OUie Schell of '29, Grand Knight of Momingside Coun­cil K. of C, remains as one of the last of the Mohicans. Good "ole" OUie! 
By the way, just a few parasangs to the north of us on Riverside Drive is Herb McCabe, who recently mar­ried a charming College of New Ro­chelle girl. 
As for myself, Lou, there are times when I think that I have come to the end of my tether, economically speak­ing of course, but somehow I manage to keep two jumps ahead of the sheriff. As regards this present lit­erary effort, you will by this time believe no doubt that said tether is exceedingly elastic, and lest I con-, tinue on ad infinitum, I shall sign off forthwith. As Jim Conmey in his usual buoyant mood remarks of late. Everything, however, is roseate on the horizon which is indicative of many fine tomorrows." 
I trust, Lou, that the best of health and success may ever come your way. 
Larry Culliney. 

Dear Jim: It's been more than a year since I last wrote to you, I believe, so thought I'd let you know of my con­tinued existence. Which may or may not be cheering news to you. 
Also, I'm rather close to you again, and will be down to visit the dear old institution one of these nice, spring week-ends. Armour and Co. transferred me to Chicago last No­vember. Never thought I'd like to live here, but as usual, I thought wrong; for I find that the place isn't so bad at all. In fact, both friend wife and I enjoy it more than any other place we've lived. 
Also, we now have a daughter, bom in Kansas City last Oct. 9. But if memory serves me correctly, I'm still trailing you and Art Haley. And speaking of Haley, kindly give him my regards and inform him that he can expect the great pleasure of a visit from me in the near future. I'm planning to pop into the bigger and better (physically) university at 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNPS Maj/, 193i 
Commencement time. Can you stand it that long? 
Haven't mixed up with the N.D. club here, but will do so soon. There are some Notre Dame men working at the plant, but have met only one so far, a fellow named Winters. He's of my class, I believe. 
George KeUey has kept me in­formed of people and things in South Bend; and he recently wrote that Jerry Holland was back at work. 
The old News-Times certainly has experienced some changes in the past few years, hasn't it? 
How are Mrs. Armstrong and the little Armstrongs? And have you re­duced your girth any since last I saw you? Here's fervently hoping that it hasn't increased. 
Would like to see you the next time you're in Chicago. We live close to Mt. Carmel high school, just around the comer from the 63rd street sta­tion of the I.C. 
Let's hear from you, James. John Eickord. 
Botts Crowley was the leading Notre Dame figure in putting over the Notre Dame broadcast, featuring the exploits of George Gipp, which went out from station WLW, Cin­cinnati, on March 30. Bob Newhall, sports commentator for the station, was in charge of the program. He interviewed Chet Wynne, '22, team­mate of Gipp, as to the latter's per­sonality and playing. Chet is now head coach at the University of Ken­tucky. 
Also assisting, particularly with the lusty singing of the Victory March, were Ted Twomey, Chefs as­sistant at Kentucky, and Joe Mor­rissey, of Cincinnati, championship coach at Roger Bacon High School. 
1929 
Ted Griffin, former tennis star at the University, has been elected to the presidency of the Binghamton, New York, Tennis club, for the 1934 season, according to a recent news­paper story. With the story was a photograph of Ted in action. 

Dr. James W. Tobin, graduated from Eush Medical College, Chicago, a year ago, has become a member of the staff of the Elgin Clinic, Elgin, Illinois, his "home town." He recently completed his intemeship at St. Luke's hospital, Chicago. He will spend two afternoons each week with the Dr. Grant Lang clinic in St. Luke's. 
1930 

I regret having neglected to send you some news of the Class of '30 for the past few issues of the ALUMNTIS, however I have some items here,^ which you can use next month. 
Dan Cannon, who has been my roommate here for the past two years, decided to leave a couple of months ago for the comforts of his home in Columbus, Ohio. The last word from him was about the big Banquet and Ball that the Central Ohio Alumni held on April 12. About 800 people were on hand to greet Father O'Hara, Elmer Layden, Coach Schmidt of O.S.U., President Eight-mire also of State, and others. Dan, Ed Mowery, Don Hamilton, and Eay Eichenlaub did most of the work on the affair, which should help to build up a strong club in that section. 

John Eiordan, who also has been sharing an apartment with me, was called to his home in Lemont, Illinois because of the death of his father a few weeks ago. John now intends to locate in the Chicago district so we have another vacant bed in our household here. 
Harry Lantry of Helena, N. Y., recently joined the ranks of the mar­ried members of our class. 
Johnny Quinn, who now lives at Ansil Eoad, Cleveland is getting along well -with the White Motor Co. 
Coal salesman, Joe Lordi, has been 

playing top-notch squash and is a 
strong contender for the National 
Championship. 
Art Denchfield is managing the 

foreign exchange department of the 
National Bank of Mexico here. 
Frank McManus, 31, is in the Eeal Estate business in Philadelphia. 
Eobert H. McCune, '22, holds a good position with the E.C.A. Photo-phone Corporation in this city. 
J. F. "Chic" DriscoU is managing an A & P store in Boston. 
Some of the proud fathers that I have heard about recently are: Frank Miller, whose daughter's name is Pa­tricia Ann; Frank O'Marah, who has a son Kevin; and H. Louie Stettler, now of Cleveland, whose pride is called John. 
Ollie Shell, recently returned home, because of the death of his father, but he is now back here and working for the Ford Motor Company as an accountant. 
The Notre Dame Bowling team at the Centre Association has been winning consistently. John Balfe, Henry Frey, Ed Tighe, Art Bergan, Ted Berkerey, Tom Lantry, and Dan Halpin are some of the stars. This club has quite a few N. D. men on its membership list and is becoming a popular meeting place in the city. 
George McKay, 31, is connected with the Sonotone Company in Mil­waukee. 
An interesting letter from Andy Aman of Dayton informs me that he is still doing his best to earn a living in the investment business. Andy also tells me that Jim Wood is going to Indianapolis as manager of a motor freight line. Jim's engagement to Miss Marian Griffith of Columbus was announced recently, so Jim is to be congratulated in more ways than one. 

The C.C.C. motor freight line is keeping AJ Shipacasse busy as gen­eral accountant, while Ed Blatt is cashier of the same company. Both are located in Cleveland. 
Matt Keller is selling paint for the Marvel Paint Company of Spring­field. 
The latest news from Paul Irvin was from Wilmington, Delaware, but I don't know what he was doing there. 
Our club here has had some iine affairs since you were in the city. The Eockne Memorial Mass brought out 120 of the fellows and it was an interesting affair. Father Boyle came up from Washington and he gave a marvelous talk. Lawrence Perry, Christy Walsh, and Father Kelly of the Catholic Writers Guild also spoke. Our good friend Joe Byrne came over from New Jersey to pre­side as toastmaster and he did a splendid job of it. Joe recently re­turned to Wall Street after ten years of absence, and we are all wishing him the best of luck. 
The Universal Notre Dame Night celebration went over great. Warren Fogel, who had charge of it, gathered together all kinds of celebrities and everybody enjoyed the evening. 
So long until the next time. Bemie Conroy. 
1932 

Enclosing something I should have sent you long ago. If the check is no good I'll give you another just like it. 
Have been enjoying reading the Notre Dame ALUMNUS. It keeps me in contact with the University and my friends 
If it may interest you, Angelo Luckelt, '32, is working on a survey (government) in the Delta. Bill Mil­ler, '30, is doing good vnth an insur­ance company. (I met him at the Natchez Pilgrimage). Pat Bums, '33, is located with a wholesale company in his home town, Natchez. Joe Mc-Keon, '32, is a salesman for Interna­tional Salt Co. 
Thanking you for not dropping me from your mailing list, I am. Pete Trolio, Canton, Miss. 
Frank Oberkoetter visited the cam­pus briefly on April 5 after deliver­ing his sisters to Eosary College fol­lowing the Easter vacation. Prank 
May, 193i THE NoTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
holds forth in his native haunts in Bloomington, Illinois. 
From the ever - interested and thoughtful Professor Maurus come the following notes on some men of '32: 
John Maurice Scanlon. With the Bell Telephone Company in Evans­ville, Indiana. Home address: 715 East Gum Street, Evansville. 
Louis Robert Eohlof. Inspector and tester of the air cooling and con­ditioning apparatus being installed in Pullmans and passenger coaches by the Pullman Car and Manufactur­ing Company. Home address: 10523 Normal Avenue, Chicago. 
Alfred Butler White. Has been added to the Physics faculty at Notre Dame. 
Noble Fred Harbaugh. Teaching mathematics and drawing in Thomas Jefferson school. South Bend. 
Greg Pranzwa. With Coast and Geodetic Survey, Salem, Oregon. 
1933 

Frank Jenny is continuing the no­table scholastic achievements that made him so outstanding in the class of 1933. Graduated last June with the highest rating in chemical engi­neering, Frank accepted a year's fellowship, worth $1,600, at the Mas­sachusetts Institute of Technology and is working for his master's de­gree. Several weeks ago he received a $200 scholarship which will enable him to attend the summer session at 
M.I.T.
 Just recently he was awarded another fellowship, worth ?2,500, which will enable him to continue at 

M.I.T.
 for two more years and win his doctor's degree. 


Frank's home is in Utica, New York. A long account of his remark­able accomplishments and a photo­gi-aph of him appeared in a recent edition of a Utica paper. 
Professor Maurus generously comes through with the following re­garding some men of '33: 
Herschel Vernon McBride. Teach­er of mathematics and surveying for the CWA in Niles, Michigan. 
Michael. J. Besso. With Illinois Highway Department. Stationed at CarlinviUe, Illinois. 
1934 

Robert E. Bondurant, who com­pleted his law course in February, has been admitted to the prominent South Bend legal firm of Jones, Obenchain and Butler, thus adding another Notre Dame representative to that predominantly Notre Dame office. Bob will receive his LL.B. at the June Commencement. 
Boole Reviews 
By BnOTllER AlDAX, C.S.C. 

The Germans, by George Shuster, '15, which has won much praise from the reviewers, is listed by the Amer­ican Library Association among the 40 best books of the year. Their choice was made from among 9,000 volumes. In the preparation of the book Mr. Shuster spent several months in Ger­many. 
Frank Wallace, '23, has published another story of college life. Press Box. His other books are Huddle, Stadium, That's My Boy, and O'Reilly of Notre Dame. 
Harry Sylvester, '30, author of a number of short stories and magazine articles, has written his first book. Big Football Man. Brother Leo, a discriminating critic, calls it "a big football book, moving and impressive ... . •svriting from inside knowledge and outside observation—^few persons have both—^he conveys both the spirit and the atmosphere of the intercolleg­iate football cults." 
Religion and Living is the title of a book by Brother Ernest, C.S.C, '25, It is a reprint of an unusually popu­lar series of articles on the teaching of religion which he contributed last year to the Catholic School Journal. The book, to quote from the preface, "is the partial fruit of eleven years of experiments in teaching boys to live their religion"; an effort to make the learning and living of religion synonymous. 
Building Superintendent 
The appointment of Patrick J. Mc-Guinness, widely known Chicago hotel manager, as superintendent of buildings at the Umversity of Notre Dame, a newly-created position, has been announced by the Rev. John P. O'Hara, C.S.C, vice-president. 
Mr. McGuinness is in direct charge of the janitors and maids in the resi­dence halls, and he has started a sur­vey of housing conditions on the cam­pus with an eye to making recom­mendations for improving these con­ditions in every possible way. 
He was service manager of the Sherman hotel in Chicago for 10 years from 1917 to 1927. He has held the managership of the Midwest Athletic club, the Garfield Aims, Al­cazar hotel, and the Sheridan Plaza hotel in Chicago. He has more re­cently been assistant manager of the Bismarck hotel of Chicago. 
Mr. McGuinness is a member of the Barry council of the Knights of Columbus and of the liaSalle assem­bly fourth degree in Chicago. He will transfer to the Notre Dame coun­
cil. He is also a member of the Holy Name society and a former member of the Paulist choir and St. Patrick's choir of Chicago. 
Mr. McGuinness will make his home in South Bend, bringing his wife and his mother here from Chi­cago in the near future. 
Suggests More Investigation on Assistance Requests 
The ever-present evil, the solicita­tion of funds from alumni by men representing themselves as former Notre Dame students in need of help, is very ably touched upon by Ray Eichenlaub, '15, Columbus, Ohio, in a letter to the Alumni Secretary. Ray says in part: 
"Some time ago after such an ex­perience, I considered what I would do if stranded or what any other per­son should do under similar circum­stances. My answer would be to wire or telephone my home, or my closest friends who knew me and knew my character and were acquainted with my habits. Not to call upon a Notre Dame man who had no intimate 
' knowledge of my situation. 
"As a result I concluded that when the touch came, we as alumni, and in our oivn interest not to support or be hoodwinked even though we may know who the person is, should ob­tain the name, address, business, his­tory and activity at Notre Dame, name of relatives, closest friends. 
and their business with a view to calling them for the troubled indi­vidual in an effort to get funds for him through them and not an alum­nus. If it is a case of cashing checks, etc., then why not call the bank on which the check is written. 
"Further when these cases come up if we have obtained the name, ad­dress, etc., and found it just another racket then the name if reported to you and recorded would enable a furtiier check up at your office if other methods fail. 
"In other words we should not en­courage, but try to make it difficult for these fellows to continue. Usually, when inquiries are made we find the same fellow has been operating else^ where." 
Ray's suggestion certainly carries a great deal of merit, and if followed, will do much to reduce alumni losses in this direction. Better to spend a little in checking up than to con­tribute to the game of an imposter. 
LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON—Jo­leph H. Kraker. 29. 1776.24th St.. Cuy­ahoga Falls, Ohio, President: Claude H. Homine, '29, 133 N. HiBhland Ave.. Akron, Ohio, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJfE CLUB OP ARIZON.A.— James D. Barry. *97. Consolidated Bank Bids., Tucson, President: Steve Rebeil, '25, 620 N. Sixth St, Tucson, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARKANSAS— Rev. Geo. F. X. Strassner, '14, Hope, President; Burt L. Roberts, 1325 lancoln Ave., UtUe Rock, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BENGAL—Rt. Bev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C., '02, Dac­ca, President; Rev. J. J. Hencssey, C.S.C.. Dacca, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF BOSTON— Jarlath (Jack) Slattery. '31. 226 L. St.. South Boston. President: James Skahan. '31. 5 Grove St., Belmont. Mass., Secre­tary. . 
NOTRE D.4ME CLUB OF BUFFALO— Henry L. Bums, '29, 191 Euclid Ave.. President: Franklin O'Marah, '30. 1165 Delaware Ave.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CALUlfET DISTRICT —C . Patrick Maloney, '16, 219 Pettibone Ave., Crown Point, Ind., President. 
NOTRE DAJtE CLUB OP THE CAPI­TAL DISTRICT—Ronald McNamee. '24. 80 Church St, Balston Spa. N.Y.. Presi­dent : Richard Walsh. '31. 110 Union St.. Schenectady, N.Y., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP CHICAGO— James F. McNicholas. '25. 7608 Phillips Ave., Chicago, President: Neil C. Hurley. Jr., '32, 914 Ashland Ave., River Forest, 111.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCINNATI —W. D. Morrissey, '26, 700 Este Bids.. President; Joseph Kinneary, '28, 1717 Gemwood Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND —Matthew Trudelle, '17. 1023 Scofidd Bids.. President: J. Patrick Canny, '28. 
c.0. Erie Railroad Lesal Dept, Medical Arts Bids:., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CON­NECTICUT VALLEY — Waiiam J. Granfield. '13, State Bids., 1200 Main Street Sprinsfield, Mass.. President: James A. Curry, '14, 647 Main St, Hartford, Conn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DALLAS, TEXAS—James P. Swift '24, 422 In­terurban Bids., Dallas, President Fran­cis A. McCullough, '30, 917 First Nat­ional Bank Bids., Dallas, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON— Amos Clay. '15, Union Trust Bids-, President; Andrew A. Aman, Jr.. '30. 210 Lexinston Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER— Robert Dick. '29, 930 Grant St, Presi­dent; Harry Lawrence, '29, 1951 Law­rence St, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DES MOINES —James C. Shaw. '22, 307 Equitable Bids., President: F. M. 'Wonderlin, '29, 302 Hubbell Bids.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT— John T. Hissins, '24, 1632 Buhl Bids., President; Paul J. Dooley, '25, 6202 Hamilton Ave.. Secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—James D. Hayes, '17, 5115 Eishth St, N. W., Washinston, Presi­dent; Harry M. Ambrose. '25, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ERIE, PA.— Richard D. Daley. '17, Erie DaSyrimes. President: Thomas Barber, '24, 416 Newman St, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FAIRFIELD COUNTY—James Murphy. '22. 611 Sec­urity Bids., Bridseport Conn.. Presi­dent: Joseph E. Rnsso, '32, 166 Housh Ave., Bridseport Conn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WAYNE —Robert Eggeman, '30, Old First Bank Bids., President. 
NOTRE DASIE CLUB OF GREEN BAY —Harold L. Londo. '24. City Ensineers'. Office. City Hall. Green Bay. Wis.. Pres­ident: Levi A. Geniesse, '24. 510 Mina­han Bids., Green Bay, Wis.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GRAND RAP­IDS. IHCH—George K Ludwig, '25, 328 Glenhaven Ave.. N. W. President; Ray­mond J. Bonini. "27, 2460 Oakwood Dr., S.E., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HAIOLTON. OHIO—M. O. Bums. '86. 338 S. Second St. President: Marc A. Fiehrer, '27, 701 Rentschler Bids., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HIAWATHA­LAND—^Norman Bartholomew, '15, 225 Cleveland Ave.. Iron Mountain. Mich., President; Michael S. Corn. '27, 837 Terrace Ave, Marinette, Wis,, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON— 
M. E. Walter. '14. 1702 Stuart Ave.. Houston. Texas. President; T. F. Green, Jr., '27. Conroe, Texas, Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIANAP­OLIS—Harry Scott '17. 838 N. Dela­ware St. President: John Carton, '28, City Hall, Engineering Dept, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET—Jo­seph Silk. '20, 820 Ohio St, President; Thomas Feeley, '32, 316 Buell Ave., Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS CITY —Daniel F. Foley. '23. 25 Wint Ave.. F t Leavenworth. Kansas. Presi­dent; John M. Duean. '27. 7401 Terrace Ave.. Kansas City, Mo.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF KANSAS—Al­bert J. Gebert. '30. U. of Wichita, Wich­ita. President: Dan Welchons. '30. 306 
E. 13th St, Hutchinson, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KENTUCKY— Wm. A. Beisert Jr., '30, Reisert Ins. Agency. 352 Starks Bids., Louisville, Ky., President: Herman J. Ohligschlas­er, '29, Broadway at 30th St. Nat'l. Concrete Construction Co., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANE COUN­TY—William B. Chawgo. '31. 404 S. La-Salle St. Aurora, HI.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LAPORTE. INDIANA—A. Gordon Taylor, '18, 1607 Indiana Ave.. Laporte. President; Nor­man Duke, '33, 304 Niles St, Laporte, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LANSING. MICHIGAN—Joseph W. Stack. '15, 1028 Chesterfield Pkway., East Lansing, Pres­ident: Charles J. Connor. "33, 120 E. Kalamazoo, Lansing, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOS AN­GELES—Thomas Heam. '13. 1120 Pa­cific Finance Bids.. President: Douglas Daley. '30, 781 Ceres Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOUISIANA­MISSISSIPPI—P. E. Burke. '88, 307 Camp St. New Orleans. President; Cyp­rian A. Sporl. Jr., '28, Whitney-Centnl Bids.. New Orleans, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MANILA— Jacobo Zobel. '23, Manila. P X President; 
A. F. Gonzales. '25. Insular Life Bids., 2nd Fl., Manila, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MEMPHIS— Hush Masevney, Jr.. 1878 Union Ave.. President 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE —P. Dudley Pearson, '19, 2037 N. Lake Drive. President; Victor G. WoMte. '29, 1819 E. Kenwood Bids.. Secretary. 
NOTP-E DAME CLUB OF MONTANA— Earl W. Brown. '93. 320 Power St, Helena, President; James B. O'FIynn, '11. Great Falls. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NASHVILLE— Robert P. Williams, Jr., '29, 106 GaUa­tin Road, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEBRASKA— Gerald J. Barrett, '22, 315 S. 37th St. Omaha. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW JER­SEY—Robert Phelan. '22. 481 William St, East Oranse, N. J., President; Joseph Nulty, '27. 946 Madison Ave., Elizabeth, N. J.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CITY OF NEW YORK—William A. Walsh, '97. 16-18 S. Broadway. Yonkers. New York, President; J. Norbert Gclson, Jr.. '26. 1201 Troy Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y., Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA—Royal H. Bosshard. '17. 324 Sansoms St, San Francisco. Presi­dent; Robert B. Hill. '23. 5033 Proctor Ave., Oakland, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME OLUB OF OREGON— Nat McDoosaU. '00, 652 Sherlock Bids-Portland, President; Thomas D. McUa­hon, '27, Yeon Bids., Portland, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAHE CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO — Raymond J. Eichenlaub, 'IS, Hoster Realty Bids., Columbus, President 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLAHOMA —^Thomas F. Shea, o. a.. '09, 902 Bx­chanse Katl. Bank. Tulsa. Prerident; Leo A. Schumacher. *13. King Wood Oil Co., Okmulsee, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PARIS—Hold­ers of Permanent SeaU: Louis P. Harl. '16. Paris Office. N. Y. Herald. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADEL­PHIA — Hany Francis. Jr.. '30. 16 Sprins Ave., Ardmore. Pa.. President; Thomas J. Magee, '32, 5801 Chew St. Philadelphia. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PEORIA. ILL. —Albert F. Gury. '28. 704 W. Wiloox Ave., President; Joseph Langton, *28, 207 Hillyer Place. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER Ward Schlotzer, '17, 136 Lennox St, President: Richard Sullivan. '32. 233 
• Elicott St . Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCK RIVER VALLEY —Raymond C. Marelli. '27. 1418 Eighth St. Rockford. Bl., Presi­dent: Francis W. Howland. '25, 902 N. Main St . Rockford, IlL, Secretiiry. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF RHODE 
. ISLAND—Charles A. Grimes. '20. Para­mount Bids., Providence. President; Cy­ril A. Oostello. '29. 44 Huxley Ave., Providence. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE ST. JO­SEPH VALLEY—Paul M. Butler, '27, 802 tO.O.F. Bids., South Bend. lad-President; Norman J. Hartzer. '29, 843 Forest Ave., South Bend, Ind., Secre­tary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SPRING­FIELD—Frank Zimmerman. '26. 931 N. Rutledge Ave.. President: Robert Gra­ham. '26. 1537 S. Douglas Ave.. Secre­tary. 
Local Alumni Clubs LIST OF CLASS SECRETARIES 
(Continued) 

NOTRE DAJIE CLTJB OF ST. LOUIS— Dr. Thomas R. Kennedy, '14, 4200 Flad Ave., St. Louis, President; Joseph Switzer, 32, 323 N. Broadway, St. Louis, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SIOUX dTY— Vincent F. Harrington, *25, Continental Mortsrase Co., President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y.—Ed Byrne. President: Ward H. Leahy, '26, 307 Forest Hill Drive, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SAN AN­TONIO—Harold Tynan, '27, 240 B. Hui­sacke Ave., President: Kirwin J. Wil­liams, *28. 319 W. Gramercy, Secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN. OHIO —C. J. Schmidt, '11, 260 Melmore SL, President: Fred J. Wasner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TOLEDO— Fred A. Sprenger, '30, 3129 Kimhail Ave., President: Joseph L. Wetli, '31, 717 Starr Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRI-CITIES— Richard B. Swift, '20, Kahl Bids., Dav­enport, Iowa, President: Arthur L. Him­bcrt, '32, 527 39th St.. Rock Island, 111.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPLE CITIES—Joseph Carey. '32, 20 Roose­velt Ave.. Endicott, N. Y., President: Regis McNamara, '33. 13 Crandall St., Binghamton, N. Y., Secretarj-. 
TWIN CITIES NOTRE DAME CLUB— Eugene A. O'Brien, '28, 15 S. Fifth St.. Minneapolis, Minn., President; John D. Yeiland, '30, 3221 Holmes Ave., S., Min­neapolis. Minn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTAH—Ray­mond R. Brady, '24, 206 Keams Bids., Salt Lake City, President: Cyril Har­becke, '19, 64 F. St., Salt Lake City, Sec. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE WABASH VALLEY—Nohle Kizer, '25, Purdue Uni­versity, Lafayette, Ind., President: Peter Vogt, Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA —Leo R. Mclntyre, '28, Bethlehem, Pa.. President, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTICA, NEW YORK—Dr. John F. Kelley. '22, Peoples' Gas & Electric Bldg.. President: Joseph 
W. Fullem, '31, 1621 Neilson St., Sec­retary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB -OF WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA — John B. Reardon, '22, 16 Union Bank Bldg., Pittsburgh, President: Joseph Bach, '25, Duquesne University Athletic Dept, Pittsburgh, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN WASHINGTON—Dr. Clarence Shannon, '02. 4th & Pike St. Bldg., Bm. 813, Se­attle, Wash.. President: E. Morris Star­rett, '21, 801 Washington St., Port Townsend, AVash., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WATERBURY —John Robinson, '28, 32 Farmington Ave., President; James M. Monaghan, '27, 44 Ayer St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WHEELING, 
W. VA.—Thomas F. Howley, '11, Citi­zens-Peoples Trust Co., "Wheeling, Presi­dent: George Sargus, '28, 2111 Belmont, Bellaire, Ohio, Secretary. 

THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME—Sister M. Agnes Alma. O. P., Mt. St. Mary-on-the-Hudson, Newburfih, New York, President: Miss Rose Stef­faniak, 161 Walnut St., Coldwater, Mich. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP YOUNGS-TOWN—John Moran, '29, 1348 Quinn. President: Charles Cushwa, '31, 2227 Cordova Ave., Secretary. 
Year Name Address Before 1880 Hon. Thos. F. Gallagher Fitchbnrg, Mass. 1880—85 Prof. Robert M. AndersonCircIeville, Ohio 1886 Michael O. Bums 338 S. Second St., Hamilton, Ohio 1887 Hon. Warren A. Cartier P.O. Box 606, Fort Meyers, Florida 1888 John L. Heineman Connersvilie, Indiana 1889 P. E. Burke 301 Camp St, New Orleans, La. 1890-93 Louis P. Chute 7 University Ave., Minneapolis, Minnesota 1894 Hugh A. O'Oonnell The New York Times, New York City 1895 Eustace Cullinan, Sr. 860 Phelan Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. 1896 William P. Bums 327 Willard Ave., Michigan City, Indiana 1897 Rev. John A. MacNamara P. O. Box 64, Bel Air, Maryland 1898 Wm. C. Kegler 9th and Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati. Ohio 1899 Dr. Joseph F. Duane 418 Jefferson Bldg., Peoria, Illinois 1900 John W. Eggeman Old First Bank Bldg., Fort Wayne, Ind. 1901 Joseph J. Sullivan 1300, 139 N. Qark St., Chicaso, lU. 1902 C. C. Mitchell 110 S. Dearborn St., Box 3, Chicago, HI. 1903 Francis P. Burke 904 Trust Company Bids., Milwaukee, Wisconsin 1904 Robert Proctor Monger Bldg., Elkhart, Indiana 1905 Daniel J. O'Connor 10 S, LaSalie St., Chicago, Illinois 1906 Thomas A. Lally SI1-I3 Paulsen Bldg., Spokane, Washington 1908 Frank X. Cull Bulkley Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio 
1909 
B. P. Cleary P. O. Box 356. Momence. Blinois 1910 
Rev. M. L. Moriarty 1900 Euclid Ave.. Qeveland. Ohio 1911 
Fred L. Steers 1635 First National Bank Bids'., Chicago, Illinois 1912 
B. J. Kaiser 324 Fourth St, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 1913 
James R. Devitt 921 Engineers Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio 1914 
Frank H. Hayes 1252 Newport Ave., Chicago, Illinois 1915 
James E, Sanford 1033 S. Linden Ave., Highland Park, OL 1916 
Timothy P. Galvln 708 First Trust Bldg., Hammond, Indiana Edward J. McOsker 104 S. Union St, Elgin, Illinois 1917 
John A. Lemmer '1110-8th Ave., S., Escanaba, Michigan 
1918 Clarence Bader 650 Pierce St, Gary, Indiana 1919 
Leo B. Ward 1012 Black Bids., Los Angeles, California 
1920 Alden J. Cusick 1 Park Ave, New York City 1921 
Gerald Ashe 226 Glen Ellyn Way, Rochester, New York 
1922 
Paul Castner White Motor Company, Geveland. Ohio 
1923 James F. Hayes Fifth Avenue Ass'n., Empire State Bids., N. Y. City 1924 
John W. Scallan Pullman Co., 79 E. Adams St, Chicago, HI. 
1925 
Dr. Gerald W. Hayes 96 N. Walnut St, East Orange. N. J. 
1926 Edmund DeGerq SllS Ellis Ave., Chicago, HI. 
1927 
Louis Buckley 718 E. Corby St., South Bend, Indiana 
1928 
Joseph McNamara 231 Wisconsin St , Indianapolis, Indiana 
1929 Bernard W. Conroy 72 Barrow St. New York City 1930 
John E. Boland 3624 Chestnut St, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
1931 
Herbert Gtorgio 3005 ISSth St, Hollis, L. I., New York 
1932 
Donald Wise 1246 Hillcrest Road, South Bend, Indiana 
1933 
DISTRICT GOVERNORS 
district  Name  Address  
I  John W. Eggeman, '00  Old First Bank  Bldff., Fort Wayne.  Ind.  
II  Daniel Hilgartner, Jr., '17  2039 B. 72nd PL, Chicago, Illinois.  
in IV  E. C. McHngh, '13 John V. Diener, '09  4220 Cherry St., Cincinnati, Ohio704 Cass St., Green Bay, Wisconsin  '  
V  Raymond J. Kelly, '15  City Hall, Detroit, Micbican  
VI  Thomas Farrell,  '26  184 N. Walnut St., East Oranse, New  Jersey  
VII  William A. Daunt 'OS  110 E. 42nd St.  New  York  City  
vni  Dr. Robert Bums,  '17  948 Main St.. Buffalo, New  York  
IX  Joseph  P. Gartland,  '27  60  Congress St.,  Boston.  Mass.  
X  Anselm  D. Miller,  '25  1228 Maple St.. Roanoke, Va.  
XI  Harold Foley, '21  Foley,  Florida  
xn xin XIV  Frank Bloemer, '22 Arthur Carmody, '15 Joseph A. Menger, '25  126 E. Jefferson St., Louisville. Ky. 819 Slattery Bldff., Shreveport, La. 107 Catherine Court, San Antonio, Texas  
XV  Dr. D. M. Nigro,  '14  331 Arsyle Bldg.,  Kansas  City.  Missouri  
XVI  Richard B. Swift  20  Ivahl Bids:.. Davenport,  Iowa  
xvn xvin xrs  Dr. R. C. Monahan,Robert Fox, '01 James D. Barry, '97   '90  418 Hcnnessy Bldg., Butte. Montana 5730 17th Ave. Parkway. Denver. Ccdorado 82 W. Pennington St., Tucson, Arizona  
XX  Howard Parker, '17  Sutter Gub, Sacramento. California  
XXI  E. M. Starrett '21  SOI Washington St., Port Townsend. Washineton  
xxn  Alfonso Zobel, '24  CO. Ayala & Cia. 21 Calle Juan Luna. Manila, P.  I.  

Lyliesteriield M^« Smitl 
Yes, tliank you M^ Smitli! 
© 1934. liccnr & Myms TOBACCO CO. 






