The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

CCMMENT 

The ne.\t issue of the ALUMNUS will come out after Christmas, This issue, therefore, takes the oppor­tunity to wish every ALUMNUS reader a very happy Christmas in that full sense of the word which he learned at Notre Dame, 
The ne,xt issue of the ALUMNUS also begins a new year, as the cal­endar, and most of us, reckon it. We will leave to that issue the extending of New Year's greetings. 
For the present, the ALUMNUS wishes to urge a preparation for this new year with respect to the Alumni Association and its projects. 
While this column is being written, the Association faces the very serious situation of entering the second six month.s of its fiscal year with only one-fourth the membership having paid dues. 
This income, to date, will barely pay the small staff that attempts to keep the Association together and its projects active. The cost of the ALUMNUS must be added. Postage must be added for the magazine and the many letters issued. Just the bare necessities of a fiscal year de­mand immediate action by the delin­quent 75% of the membership. And it is a loss to Notre Dame alumni and to the University when we con­tent ourselves with "just another year," 
There are things we should be do­ing, could be doing, with only those resources to which the obligation of membership entitles us. But we rec­ognize conditions. We, like so many other worthy movements, are willing to mark precious time to bolster economic security. But we are go­ing backward unless those hundreds among the alumni who could pay their dues without embarrassment act now. 
The "we" used above doesn't mean the Alumni Office, It means you. Nothing is more mutual, more co­operative than an alumni association. You profit to the extent of your par­ticipation. 
Unfortunately, if you are blind to the possible benefits, you also act as a drag on those alumni who do see the light. As a matter of charity for them, if not of benefit to your­self,—and if you prefer noble im­pulses, there's one—support this or­ganization. 
IN TfrilX ISSUE 
Excerpts from Synthetic Rubber History Frontispiece Synthetic Rubber Discovered, by Thomas F. Coman, '2.5_ 67 Southern California Weed-end, an Editorial Kaleidoscope 69 The Rockne Memorial, Will Rogers, et al 71 Editorial 77 Alumni N, D, Shares, No, 3—^In the Law .80 Nominating Committees Appointed by President Hayes_ 81 Athletics, by Joseph Petritz, '32 82 Around the Campus, by John Klener, '32 84 Religious Page (Birth Control), by Rev, John O'Hara 85 The Alumni Clubs 88 The Alumni - 91 
The ma^razine is published monthly durini; the' scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana, The subscription price is S2,00 a year: the price of sinitle copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni duos of S5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923. at the post office at Notre D,^me. Indiana, under the .-Vet of March 3. 1879. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus. Box 81. Notre D,imc, Indiana. 
MEMBER OP THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL MEMBER OP THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUJINI FEDERATION 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana JAMES E. ARJISTRONG, General Secreiari/ 
ALUMNI BOARD 
REV. JOHN A, MACXAJIARA, '97 Honorary President FRANXIS H . HAYES, '14 
President CL,VRENCE M.\NIOX, '22 -- Vice-President WALTER DUNCAN, '12 -Treasurer JAJIES E, ARMSTRONG, '25 ---Secretary 
M, HARRY MILLER, '10 -Director T, PAUL MCGAXNON, '07 -- Director JOHN F , O'CONNELL, '13 Director ROBERT E, LYNCH, '03 -. . - Director FRANK E . HERING, '98 -(ex officio) Director 
Nothing succeeds like success. The Editor of this magazine feels not the slightest qualm in saying that some­day he, or some succeeding editor, will find the Alumni Association in a position the reverse of the begging attitude which present conditions force it to assume. 
There is no reason why this or­ganization of more than 5,000 Notre Dame men cannot reach again that status of social and economic success enjoyed previous to the surrender of the Association's resources to the University for the building of Old Students Hall. The membership then numbered no more than a third of the present roster. It is true that a number of leading spirits of those pioneer days have died—^William P. Breen, Frank O'Shaughnessy, Peter McEUigott, Joseph, M. Haley, Mark Foote, P. T. O'SuUivan, and others of that beloved brotherhood. But the majority of the "old guard" still live, augmented by literally thousands of the newer generations of the Greater Notre Dame. 
And we're failing! 



The Native Seat of Synthetic Rubber 
#^ 

Science Frowned Not O n Its Humble Birth .... " 
CHEMISTRY HALL 
'# 

'And Duponts Marked It For Their Own/ 



liiBB 
•l€^ 1^|^H^^H[HB^K^fl| ^H' 
^DS^E^^^^K'^'^II^^^I 
•^^•^^^•^^^•^^^Ra Kl 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^H 
H^^^L.^^^^^^^J^^^I9[^^^^| 
^^^' 

K^^^^^^^^^^^KSI^^S 
AN EARLY CIIEM LAB 

Fr. Nienivland, Youthful Professor, In the Foreground 


TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. X. DECEMBER, 1931 No. 3 

SYNTHETIC RUBBER DISCOVERED 
Rev. J. A. Nieuwiand, C.S.C., '99, Discovers Basic Substances From Which New Product is Developed,- Dr. R. R. Vost, '15, Shares Honors 
By Thomas F. Coman, '25. 

The production of a new synthetic rubber, the essential chemicals of which were discovered by the Rev. Julius Arthur Nieuwiand, C.S.C., A.B, '99, Ph.D. '04, Sc.D. '12, twenty-five years ago in a laboratory on the campus of the University of Notre Dame, was announced Monday, Nov. . 2, by officials of the E. I. DuPont De-Nemours Co., at a meeting of the .American Chemical Society's rubber 
division in .-Vkron, Ohio. 
The primary raw material for the 
new rubber, which possesses several 
qualities not contained in natural 
rubber, is acetylene, which requires 
for its production only coal and 
limestone, chemists e.xplained. 
Commercial possibilities of the 
product have been established so 
definitely that the DuPont Company 
has started building a plant at 
Deepwater Point, N. J., for its man­
ufacture on a commercial scale. 
The only other raw materials 
needed, in addition to coal and 
limestone, are salt and water, it was 
said, and all of these materials are 
available in unlimited quantities. 
-Announcement of the discovery 
was made in highly-technical papers 
presented at the meeting by F. B. 
Downing, \V. H. Carothers and Ira 
Williams, each representing a group 
of chemists who participated in the 
experimental work. 
In the field of chemistry Father Nieuwiand has been one of the out­standing students of acetylene re­actions. In the Notre Dame labora­tory in 1906, he came upon the com­ponent parts of synthetic rubber by passing acetylene into a solution of copper and ammonium chlorides. The chemical change that took place produced a gas. 
Then for fourteen years Father Nieuwiand worked on this compound, and in 1920, he was able to alter the composition so as to form an oil be­sides the gas. A year later that oil was determined to be divinyl acety­lene, the material from which rubber is synthesized. 
The goal of synthetic rubber was still far away, but in 1923 Dr. R. R. Vogt, B.S. '15, M.S. 'IG, Ph.D. '20, an assistant to Father Nieuwiand, working as a research engineer in the chemistry department of Notre Dame, treated divinyl acetylene with a vulcanizing agent and produced a highly elastic rubber in nature. 
The development at this stage was on the threshold of synthetic i-ub­ber. Somewhere in the qualities of these acetylene developments was the formula of rubber. 
The E. I. DuPont De Nemours and Co., of Delaware, keeping in close touch with the developments in Father Nieuwland's laboratories, de­cided that divinyl acetylene contained the possibilities for revolutionizing the rubber industry, and all the other industries that depended so much on rubber either as a raw material or as a finished product. 
The DuPonts made arrangements with Father Nieuwiand whereby they might take over the development of this compound. They succeeded in producing later from divinyl acety­lene a rubber substance, but found that it did not retain its quality of elasticity long enough to make a successful commercial product. 
So science went back to the gas which Father Nieuwiand first found in 1906 during his experiments with acetylene reactions. The Jackson laboratories of DuPont turned their attention to this gas and found it to be raonovinyl acetylene. The study of acetylene reactions after the acetylene had been passed through a solution of copper and am­monium chlorides disclosed that the gas (mono\nnyl acetylene) was be­ing produced in appreciable amounts along with the oil (divinyl acety­lene). So the Jackson laboratories of DuPont took this Nieuwiand formula, and treated the gas with hydrochloric acid. 
The result was a compound called Cuprene. When this was treated with suitable reagents, it polymerized to form synthetic rubber. 
The Cuprene compound for trade purposes, will be known as Duprene. It is the synthetic rubber. It has the elasticity, the feel, and the appear­ances of natural rubber. It is said that the resemblance is so close that the difference cannot be distinguished by the ordinary observer. 
The synthetic rubber product it is said, may be vulcanized to any de­gree of hardness and may be fabri­cated into any desired shape. The producers of synthetic rubber declare that it is actually superior to the natural rubber since it can stand heat much better than the best grade of rubber plant, and shows a greater resistance to the deteriorating action of oils and greases. 
From a commercial point of view, synthetic rubber is expected to be slightly more expensive to produce than natural rubber, although far less expensive than the "golden rod rubber" developed by the late Thomas 
A. Edison. Recent announcements from the Edison laboratories indi­cated that "golden rod rubber" would cost one dollar a pound to produce. 
The synthetic rubber from the Nieuwiand formula, however, has an even greater importance attached to it from a strictly American view­point, since its successful develop­ment here relieves this country of 
December. 19.11 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
the necessity of depending upon for­
eign sources and foreign monopolies 
for the supply of one of the coun­
try's most important raw materials. 
Coal and limestone are the mate­rials from which acetylene is pro­duced, and the supply in this country is abundant. 
It is understood that experiments are now being caaried on to show the. feasibility of lining airplane gasoline containers with this synthteic rubber, so that in the event of an accident, the rubber would minimize that im­pact which so often leads to explo­sion and fire. 
Synthetic rubber has been the 
dream of scientists for decades. The 
necessity of breaking down a rubber 
monopoly has been the mother of this 
invention. Yet the discovery by 
Father Nieuwiand was purely scien­
tific twentj'-five years ago. 
With all his abilities as a scientist and his quarter of a century of con­centration in a highly specialized field. Father Nieuwiand might have been the possessor of a fortune if he were not a clergyman. 
As a member of the Roman Cath­olic order known as the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross, Father Nieuwiand is not enriched a penny. When he was ordained a priest, he took a vow of poverty. Whatever finances ac­crue to his genius in the field of science, go to the Holy Cross Com­munity for maintenance. 
Father Nieuwiand began life in Belgium, fifty-three years ago. He was bom in Hansbeke, Belgium, Feb. 14, 1878. His infrequent and un­heralded appearances in public have been prompted by his contributions to science, in the field of chemistry. Yet, his greater field of endeavor has been in botany, and in the world of science, he is as renowned as a bot­anist as he is a chemist. 

He discovered the chemical com­pound for Lewisite gas in 1903 while working on his thesis for a doctorate of philosophy degree at the Catholic University in Washington. His find­ing then was merely the chemical formula of a gas, which was taken by Dr. W. Lee Lewis during the World war, and developed into the deadly gas known as "Lewisite," with the cooperation of the government. 
Father Nieuwiand spent the early part of his childhood in Belgium, and then moved to the United States with his parents when a boy. They established their home in South Bend, and the Nieuwiand boy began his elementary education at St. Mary's parochial school. 
From the elementary schools, he continued his higher education at Notre Dame, being graduated in 1899 with the degree of Bachelor of Arts. He obtained his doctorate of philoso­phy degree at Catholic University in^ 
1904 a year after he was ordained a 
priest. 
Father Nieuwiand returned to Notre Dame in 1904 and began his teaching career in the school of sci­ence. In 1912, Notre Dame presented him with her degree of Doctor of Sciences. 
He taught classes in organic chem­istry and botany, and for a few years was dean of the College of Science. In 191S he relinquished his post as professor of botany to devote all of his time as head of the department of chemistry and professor of organic chemistry. 
For years he carried on exhaustive research in the field of botany and rose to a high position on the list of American botanists. It was in 1909 that be began the publication of the American Midlavd Naturalist, a jour­nal devoted to natural history. He is still the editor of this publication and is still an ardent botanist, al­though he has given up his official title on the faculty. 
Botany societies attracted his at­tention and for two decades, he has contributed many papers to botany and the conventions of scientific so­cieties. 
He took over the Greene library of botany at Notre Dame and developed it into one of the most prized collec­tions in the United States. The time that he has devoted to organic chem­istry has covered a broad field of endeavor, but the study of acetylene in the field of organic chemistry, be­gan his prime occupation. Out of it he brought the formula for synthetic rubber. 
The first written intimation that the formula for sj-nthetic rubber was in its last stage of development is to be found in the records of the organic symposium at Rochester, N. Y., in December 1925. Father Nieuwiand read a paper at that meeting in which he made an accidental refer­ence to his work up to that date on the reaction of acetylene and the so­lution of copper and ammonium chlo­rides. 
Father Nieuwiand is a member of the American Chemical society be­fore which he has been a speaker at every annual meeting for the past ten years. He is also a member of the Deutsche Chemische Gesellschaft; holds a fellowship in the Indiana Academy of Science; member of Phi Sigma, honorary biological society, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. 
At the present time. Father Nieuw­iand is working on a book on "Acety­lene Chemistry" with the aid of his fellow research worker. Dr. Vogt. 

THIS BAND HAD NO AKMY GA.ME TO MISS—1907 
Prof. Charles Petersen, director; comet — Messr.s. Raymond Dougherty, Arthur Foiimicr, Oswald Werder, Wesley James Donahue and William Len­nertz; clarinet—Michael ilcGuiness, Leo D. Hamerski, William Cunninyham, James Quinlan and Francis Wenninger; alto—Edward Frauenheim and ChaHes Zinc; tenor—Patrick Haggerty; trombone—Herman Werder and Louis Kelley; baritone—Thomas Hurley; saxophone—Raymond Rath; bass—Harry Williams and Francis Derrick; drum—William H. Molony and George Busenger. 
December, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
The Southern California Week-end 
(As O. O. Mclntyre or O. O. O. Friedman Might Have Viewed It.) 
Homecoming, without'the label. . . . beverages the same. . . . South Bend renascent. . . . new menus, and prices. . . . unsuspected capacities credited to hotel rooms, and occu­pants. . . . synthetic rubber yields the spotlight to sjTithetic alumni. . . . 

The St. Joseph Valley dance at the Palais Royale on Friday. . . . room enough for adagio dancing. . . . the same spot Saturday night, public. . . . hardly room enough for surmise. . , . previewing at midnight the moving picture from Frank Wallace's ('23) "Stadium" at a local theater. . . . the resemblance of the climax of the plot to the next day's game. . . . the author receiving the verdict at the Palace of Sweets with Vernon Eick­ard ('24), the distinguished and cas­socked prefect of the earlier "Spirit of Notre Dame." . . . Rickard looking just as distinguished but less like a prefect. . . . 
Morrie Starrett ('21) piling up mileage to hang out a storm signal. . . . Mike Neitzel, ('25) coming from Idaho with tales of the Idaho mas­sacre by So. Cal. . . . neither of them taken seriously. . . . until late Satur­day. . . . the boys on the squad, tired. . . . disappointed. . . . but relieved from three years of high tension. . . . stars of former years mingling, and i-emembering. . . . Eichenlaub. . . . Red Miller. . . . Castner. . . . Cough­lin. . . . the Yale game when Harper sent Cofall in twice in the same half and Notre Dame penalized half the distance of the field. . . . the Iowa game, when another field goal upset superior statistics, instigated by the familiar Howai'd Jones. , . . Brill. . . . Tom Conley, . . . Ted Twomey. . . . 
Traffic solid from all directions. . . , handled e.xpertly. . . . some question as to the orange parking field on the Irish campus. . . . probably Pete Red-den's psychology. . . . parking made sporting by Brother Leo's water hazards. . . . 
New buildings awing visitors and alumni. . . . Dick Swift for example. . . . engineers pointing with pride. . . . chemists viewing with alarm. . . . "but Father Nieuwland doesn't de­pend on a building to put him across. . . ." commerce men seeing the world in their new lobby. . . . Alumni and Dillon Halls. . . . old timers compar­ing them with Brownson and Car­roll. . . . 
The Stadium. . . . Milk Fund girls selling chrysanthemums. . . . Salva­tion Army girls asking gifts. . . . Boy Scouts handing out envelopes for the Rockne Memorial Fund, most of them dropped immediately. . . . nu­merous complaints about the five dollar admission. . . . seats behind the goal posts praised sky-high when they retailed at a dollar. . . . the same seats being impossible at five. . . . 
The first half. . . . Southern Cali­fornia stopped. . . . also a lot of pal­pitation. . . . Schwartz looking like the answer to various prayers. . . . diversion of attention to Jimmy Walker. . . . students undereraphasiz­ing football to glimpse Jean Har­low. . . . 
Rockne Memorial collection. . . . the gingerly handling of the boxes. . . . sic transit gloria. . . . possibly, however, lack of labels, again. . , . 
The game so exciting that few left the stands at the half. . . . seeing thereby the Notre Dame band. . . . holding, its own with any collegiate band in the country. . . . the new Alma Mater song. . . .the tribute to Rock. . . . the excellent music so well written by our own alumni. . . . the Shea brothers. . . . Father Charles O'Donnell. . . . Father Gene Burke. . . . Vinee Fagan. . . . and the Maestro, Joe Casasanta. . . . 
The second half. . . . the second touchdown. . . . second wind. . . . ulti­mately, second best. . . . 
The first So. California score .. . the blocked kick.. .the chuckles in the stands .. .the second score ... the 14 to 13 .. . the satisfied thrills of the Notre Dame fans ... the sudden pass .. .the decision ... the stunning sweep down the field . . . the place kick . . . the final gun . . . the crowd remaining in the stands . . . the king is dead . . . long live the king... 
The emptying of the Stadium .. . 

the filling of the town ... the univer­sal approval that no game before had so thrilled... the bets... the deci­sions ... the unalterable score... the return to normalcy... the happy pre­dictions for Notre Dame... better spirit... better balance... better schedules... better relations... bet­ter crowds... 
The praise for Hunk... for the team... for the school... for South-em California ... far, far into the night... 
Sunday morning . . . aftermaths 

1 . . after Mass . . . Father Mac Na­raara getting ready to return to New York after several months at Mt. Clemens and Notre Dame . . . the first honorary president to keep Alumni Office hours , . . Mr. and Mrs. Harry Miller .. . an impromptu '25 reunion with Neitzel, Kohout, Kaiser, Holland, O'Neil and Armstrong clut­tering up the front steps . . . post­
mortem  game.  Class,  and  general  
past  . . .  
Capt.  Tommy  Yarr,  his  counsel  

Morrie Starrett, and fair company . . . commencing to adjust Tommy to the inevitable . . . everybody really happy at heart . . . 
Relatives of students discovering University . . . great emphasis gener­ally on the academic and cultural achievements . . . renaissance of phi­losophy . . . 
South Bend eating places jammed . . . the University Dining Halls sening 4,300 visitors Saturday and Sunday in addition to the 15,000 regular meals to students. 
The interhall championship Sunday afternoon in the Stadium . . . numer­our cars parked . . . attendance 5,000 . . . amission ten cents .. . St. Ed­ward's the victors .. . Walsh the vic­tims . . . Angus McDonald sitting in the stands enjoying it as though it were the day previous . . . 
Sunday night . . . hotel lobbies crowded with baggage . . . cars leav­ing on the various highways . . . empty tables here and there in the restaurants . . . and another home season is ended . . . gloriously in spite of defeat. . . . 
THE NOTKE DAJIE ALUMNUS December, 19-11 

Father Miltner Writes On Liberal Education 
[An article, which had as its subject the ends of a liberal art eilucation, written by the Reverend Charles Miitner. CS. C made its appearance recently in connection with Na­tional Education Week which was ohser\-ed throuKhout the Uniteil States from November S to 15. Father JMiltner's work jrives an im­pressive evaluation of liberal learning and points out the essential nature at such iruin­inK. The paper follows.] 
Two years ago there was organized an association of liberal arts colleges. Its purpose is to stimulate greater public interest in the value to society of this tyi^e of educational institution and, where the need exists, to appeal to the general public for the necessary funds to preserve and perpetuate these colleges. If public interest is dwindling in the liberal arts college, it is, I think, because its aim and function are not sufficiently under­stood. At the outset then let us say that the aim of this college is simply to teach young people how to make themselves the best possible men and women. 
No man is perfect, but every man can make himself more perfect. That is the very reason he is a man at all. An animal is bom fully educated. He is not, in the proper sense, capable of education. But a man does not inherit an education, even though he is heir to all the preser\-ed wisdom and learning of bygone years. True, he can make all this his own if he will. For, be­ing a man, and not an animal, he has powers which when developed, and because he can develop them, will enable him to profit by all the fruits and all the failures, all the triumphs and all the blunders of the life-labors of the race. -And this is liberal education. 
Quotes from Shakespeare 

Shakespeare .says in one of his plays, "All the world's a stage, and we're the players on it." The rlrst thing a player must know before he can do any successful acting is the lay-out of the stage. Tlie stage of life, the boards on which we tread, is the physical, material universe. Hence we should know at least the elements of astronomy, geology, physics, chemistry and biology. We should not be strangers in our own house. We see a multitude of institutions— 
After the stage come the players— men, their history, their works, their ideals, activities, purposes, beliefs, their past endeavors, triumphs and failures, their present problems. We open our eyes on the world today. 
REV. CHARLES MILTNER, CS.C. 
Dean of the College of Art.t ami Letterx 

society, nations, states governments, religions, property, courts, industries, charities, and so on. What do they mean? Where have they come from? Why are they necessary? The key to the present is the last. Pres­ent actualities are understood only through an explanation of those processes by which they have come to be what they are. 
Now these players on life's stage are neither mannikins nor mere utilitarians. Life is not a Punch and Judy show. They are idealists, the best of them, lovers of things that are beautiful, because perfect. They have erpressed these ideals in concrete form. The result is art. Science seeks truth. -Art seeks beau­tiful forms in which to erpress it. Science aims at learning; art aims at doing. One must know before he can do. Knowledge never put to an}' use is worse than useless. Every student in a liberal arts college must therefore cultivate the literary art of expression. A thought that is un­expressed can do no one any good. -A thought that is expressed badly is never an instrument of power. To know how best to express thoughts we must get acquainted with the best 
forms in which they have been e.x­
pressed. -And that means the study 
of literature. 
Language Adds to 5Ian 

Every additional language one knows make him an additional man. Every additional literature the knowl­edge of that language opens up to him, reveals an additional world of thought. Only mind can enrich mind, mold men.' -And literature is the mind's arsenal, the magazine of its most precious and powerful ammuni­tion. 
We must see life as a whole in or­der to have a right outlook upon it. We must view knowledge as a whole or be narrow and one-sided in our conception of it. We must possess a correct standard of values or for­ever blunder in our choice of things. "Those who have no object or prin­ciple tvhatever to hold by," says Newman, "lose their way at every step they take. They have no views of persons or occurrences or facts, which come suddenly upon them, and they hang upon the opinion of others, for want of internal resources. But the intellect which has been disci­plined to the perfection of its powers, which knows, and thinks what it knows, which has learned to leaven the dense mass of facts and events vdth the elastic force of reason, such an intellect cannot be partial, cannot be exclusive, cannot be impetuous, cannot be at a loss, cannot but be patient, collected and majestically calm, because it discerns the end in every beginning, the origin in every end, the law in every interruption, the limit in each delay; because it ever knows where it stands, and how its path lies from one point to .in­other." (Idea of a University, p. 13S.) 
That principle and that power are the fruit of philosophy, the art of "thinking things together," the art of gathering up into a rational well-ordered unity the various portions of knowledge, so that each may be as­signed its proper place and given its proper value in the whole. It is, in this respect, the queen of all the sci­ences, the crown and perfection of all our studies. It is the final step in i the process of a liberal education, the > unequivocal sign of liberally educated 
men. 
To train these is the function of the liberal arts college, and a suffi­cient justification for its appeal to public interest and public support. 

Rockne Memorial Attracts Nation's Great 
Field House Campaign Revives Tributes To Rockne From Sportsmen and Statesmen; Organization Is Cross-section of America's Best. 
With a line-up that included Will Rogers at one of the ends, the may­ors of the nation's two greatest cities, a brilliant sports writer, and a prom­inent coach in the line, three of the "Pour Horsemen," in the backfield, and with President Hoover and Gov­ernor Franklin D. Roosevelt cheering from the sidelines, the Rockne Me­morial Campaign team swung into action down the million dollar grid­iron on November 4. 
The kick-otf was a natonal radio hook-up that included inspiring trib­utes to Knute Rockne by Mayor Walker of New Vork, Mayor Cermak of Chicago, Grantland Rice, John F. "Chick" Meehan, Elmer Layden, Jim­my Crowley, Harry Stuhldreher, and Will Rogers. 
The radio program by this galaxy of stars, presented through the cour­tesy of the National Broadcasting Company, was heard by thousands of Notre Dame alumni and friends gathered at dinner meetings and smokers in scores of the principal cities and towns from coast to coast and from Canada to the Gulf of Mex­ico. 
It took a pretty hard-boiled alum­nus who didn't find a lump in his throat when Will Rogers paid his glowing tribute to "Knute" at the close of a half-hour's brilliant pro­gram. If any impetus was, needed to give the campaign workers en­couragement to go out and dig for the Rockne Memorial Fund, the radio broadcast filled the bill. 
The New York Dinner in the Me-Alpin Hotel was the "key" spot in the radio broadcast. Hugh O'Donnell, toastmaster of the dinner, and divi­sional chairman for New York State, introduced Grantland Rice, who is credited with having first named "The Four Horsemen;" Chick Mee­han, New York University coach, who has been active in' promoting the Rockne Memorial Campaign among the National Coaches' Association of which he is president; and Harry Stuhldreher, who came up from Villa Nova, Pa. to throw a few passes for the Old Master, and Mayor Walker. 
Mayor Jimmy, running true to form, came late and temporarily dis-. rupted the program, but arrived in time to give a stirring address in honor of his old friend, Rockne. Toastmaster O'Donnell bega n the program by reading a special mes­sage sent by President Hoover as follows: 
THE WHITE HOUSE WASHINGTON October 20, 1331. 
My dear Dr. O'Donnell: 
Clean sport is indispensable in building the body and character of American youth. In his life and character Knute Rockne was the em­bodiment of sound sportsmanship. 
THE LATE K. K. ROCKNE, '14 ". . . belonged to everif red-blooded AmeHcun . . .'* 
The proposal for a memorial to sym­bolize his spirit and achievements will strike a responsive chord in the hearts of Americans. I wish you every success in the fruition of your plans. 
Yours faithfully, 

Herbert Hoover. Dr. Charles L. O'Donnell, President, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Later a telegram from Governor Roosevelt of New York endorsing the Rockne Memorial Campaign was read. 
From New York, where Grantland Rice was given the honor of intro­ducing "The Four Horsemen," the scene shifted to Pittsburgh, where Elmer Layden, coach at Duquesne University, "took the ball," for a substantial gain. Don Miller, at the last moment, found it impossible to leave Columbus, Ohio, to take part in the broadcast. 
Chicago came into the hookup where Jimmy Crowley, who had dashed away from practice at Mich­igan State College in Lansing, tuned in to tell a humorous story about Rock and Elmer Layden. 
Mayor Cermak, representing the City of Chicago, voiced his pride that Chicago was to take a prominent part in the campaign. 
"As the representative of that sec­tion of the country—since it was here that he was reared and educated and became justly famous as a great coach and builder of men," Mayor Cermak said, "it is a special honor and distinction for me to voice my endorsement of the Rockne Memorial Campaign. 
"Personally, I tak e a certain amount of pride in the realization that I was one of the first to suggest that there should be a memorial of some kind to Knute K, Rockne. Chicago would have been proud to have as its own a memorial to Rockne and I know that other cities and communities have given serious consideration to suggestions for a Rockne Memorial of their own. 
"Because of the almost universal demand for an appropriate and last­ing recognition of Rockne following his tragic death last Spring, it is altogether fitting and proper that plans have reached the point where a memorial to his name is now pos­sible. And it is likewise appropriate that this tribute to his character and work will take form upon the Notre Dame campus where Rockne, as a re­sult of his work, became known, not only as the greatest football coach of his time, but one of the greatest teachers of his time. 
"Chicago is proud that it is to be given an opportunity to help build the Memorial Field House. And it is glad to share this pride with the en­tire nation because, after all, as much as we would like to claim him as our own, Rockne belonged to every red-blooded American who be­lieves in sound physical development as an essential component part of American education." 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS December, 19J1 
Will Rogers flew from Mexico City to San Antonio, Texas, to take part in the national tribute and to make bis personal tribute to his old friend. Rock. 
Will's speech, presented in the form of a letter to Rockne's spirit, follows: 

"Hello, Ivnute — Say, if you ever was needed any place, you are needed here tonight. You would be just the guy to fit in on this program. It's just one of the many things you did best—^to show people what was good for them, whether you was talking to one lone boy, a thousand boys, a ban­quet hall full of people, or broadcast­ing it to the world. 
"We are having a gathering all over the country tonight to start a fund to build a recreation hall, and it's at your old hang-out. 
"Now, who in the world could tell 'em any better than you, that the thing is needed. You was with 'em longer than anybody. You know what a physical education can do for 'em. And you know what it would .have meant to you to have had such a place. Why, I can see you pleading for it with all the earnestness and sincerity of a lawyer pleading for his client's life. For your whole heart would be in a project like that. Why, 1 can hear you telling 'em what clean sport meant to a man; that to be good in sports, you must be in good condition, and you can't get in­to good condition without the place to do it. 
"You would have told 'em, but in a modest way, that Notre Dame foot­ball had earned this, that after fif­teen years of giving satisfaction and thrills to millions, that it was privi­leged to ask a favor. You would have told how the man in the streets with no college affiliation, that has no interest in the outcome of any of the big games, is always interested to see what Notre Dame did. Their condition, their skill, their cunning, and their hard schedule appealed to even the outsider. 
"Then, right in the midst of your earnest appeal, you would have switched and told 'em a story. 'Course, no one knows what it would have been, but it would have been something appropriate, maybe about a gymnasium being a better monu­ment than a tower, maybe about away over in France, how, if instead of building all those monuments to Napoleon, they had made 'em into athletic buildings; that France would have produced an athletic nation, one that could have sent in their second team against Noti-e Dame, and left 'em in until the start of the fourth quarter. Or maybe you would have told how GOO boys go out for football at Notre Dame, and there were only 75 showers and did -4merica want to see 525 boys go without a bath? 
"Or you would have showed how, if Trafalgar Square had been made into a baseball grounds instead of just a pile of concrete, that Babe Ruth would have perhaps been bom an Englishman. 

"Or maybe you would have told, as you always did, how Notre Dame was weak, and going to lose all the rest of their games and that this hall would be a slight consolation to them. 
"Oh, I don't know what you would have told, but you would have got their minds off the seriousness of it. 
"Then you would have acknowl­edged the hard times we are in. You would have told of the need of the unemployed, and you would have asked them to give to that first, and only to this fund after they had done their duty to the less fortunate. You would not have asked or would you have taken any man's last dollar. You would only ask the giver to give in proportion to the satisfaction that the spirit of a great team had given them. 
"Darn it, I don't know what you would have said, but it would have brought results, for you never did anything that didn't bring 'em. I am not handing you any of the old 'baloney' Knute, but with all the talent in America to pick from to­night, we can't replace you. We can't replace you on the field, we can't replace you behind the banquet table, we can't replace you behind the microphone, and most of all, we can't replace your leadership. Well, I don't know—we just believe in you—and if you were here tonight to tell 'em that Notre Dame had given more in return than what they were ask­ing, why you lovable old bald-headed rascal, we would give you our shirts." 
Father O'Donnell, who was in Los Angeles, Calif, attended the Los -An­geles dinner, but an address written by him was read at the New York dinner during the broadcast by Fa­ther Matthew J. Walsh. Father O'Donnell's address follows: 
"Only a little more than half a year has passed since Rockne went from us. With all his achievements, with all his unexpended power, at the full tide of his career, he left us, suddenly, with unintended dramatism, tragically, — in a moment he was gone. The country stood aghast, .shocked as it had not been shocked in our generation. When horror and dismay were somewhat spent, a great wave of grief swept the country. The President of the United States, in a special message to the bereaved fam­ily, termed his death a national loss. An Ex-President of the United States wrote of him as of a public man who was at the same time a familiar fig­ure beloved by millions of his fellow Americans. All over the country such tribute was paid to this simple American citizen as a king might envy. By a consen-ative estimate, the broadcast of his funeral services was listened to by sixty million people. 
"Rockne was gone, but something of him lived: non omnis inoriar, he might have said with the Latin poet, —and it is true. He cannot quite and forever be forgotten. He left in the heart of America some spark of that glowing life which made his own life a flame. Without altogether knowing why. multitudes of men, women and children found that their own lives were richer, cleaner and finer because this man had lived. 
"From the very first it was as­sumed that the University of Notre Dame, whose particular possession he was, would seek to honor and per­petuate his memory. Accordingly, to direct and unify the ideas and the eflTorts put forth in this direction, there was formed at Notre Dame, and incorporated under the laws of the State of Indiana, "The Rockne Memorial Association." Every mem­ber of this Association had known Rockne intimately, though not all of them were Notre Dame men. All of them knew, of course, the distressing condition of the times. All of them studied and discussed the various proposals made as to the form The Rockne Memorial should take. In the end there was unanimous agreement that the movement to erect a noble and lasting Memorial to this man's genius should not be postponed or de­layed. We believed then and we be­lieve now there are in this country friends and admirers of Rockne who want this project to be advanced and who would resent its postponement and are willing to do their part to­wards its realization. 
"There was unanimous agreement, too, as to the form this Memorial should take, — nothing trivial or ephemeral, nothing merely ornamen­tal, but a great, living house of life, and intrinsic part of the educational program with which Rockne was most closely identified; a building in which three thousand young men to­day and other thousands through the uncounted years to come might meet in the friendly rivalry of competitive games and wholesome sports which Rockne, more than any other man of his time, elevated to a new impor­tance and revealed to the American public as one of the soundest means of character formation and the only natural means of effectively meeting and overcoming those subtle forces of disintegration and decay which strike the vital spot of our civiliza­tion when they strike a million young men of college age. 
"And so it is, we are beginning to­night our intensive campaign for One Million Dollars to build the 
December, 19-31 THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNUS 
Rockne Memorial Field House at Notre Dame. We ask only that those give who are able to give and who want to give. The motive for giving is one of gratitude to this unique and lovable character, Knute Rockne, of whom it is no exaggeration but the literal truth to say, that because he did what he did, because he was what he was, this world is a better place for all of us, but especially a better world for the boys and young men of today in whose keeping the destinies of our nation will so soon be placed." 
The radio program formally opened the campaign to raise a fund of a million dollars to build and endow a Memorial Field House at Notre Dame in honor of Rockne. Campaign solicitations began, theoretically, im­mediately following the opening, but the .A.LUMNUS regrets that it is un­able, at this time, to give a report of receipts. Many of the campaign committees in various parts of the country have found it necessary to defer their respective campaigns of solicitations because of community chest drives under way in their lo­calities at the time. For this reason, many of the local committees have just begun their work of raising their quotas for the Memorial Fund. 
CAPIT.AL DISTRICT CLUB .A.CTI™ IX THE ROCKNE JIE.MOBIAL 
(Left to right) E. A. Burban, Schenectadi/; J. B. Carey, Albany; Jerome Connolly, Renssalaer; John J. Huethcr, Schenectady; John ileehan, Schenectady; John W. Forbing, Albany, president of the group; Thoinan V. Dollurd, Albany; Edward Eckert, Albany; John Rodriguez, Schenectady, and James Duquette, Schenectady. 
LITTLE NELL COMES TO WASHINGTON HALL 
"There's dirty work afoot!" The University Theatre will take the stu­dents of Notre Dame on a trip to the "bowery" on the evenings of Decem­ber 13 and 14 in that irresistible three-act melodrama, entitled "Gold in the Hills" or "The Dead Sister's Secret." The scene will be Washing­ton Hall. 
Once more that melodramatic arch­\-illain, Richard Murgatroyd will be heard issuing his "curses on you all," this time the victims being no other than Jack Dalton and Our Nell. Me­moirs of the "typical 1890 "meller­drammer" will be in the minds of all who wtness this show. 
"Gold in the Hills," by J. Frank Davis, is something new and different in the line of material for a univer­sity production. To quote the author, "while it is a burlesque in the sense that the melodrama contains all the absurdities of a plot, situation, and language of the nineteenth century thrillers, it is not a burlesque and is performed with heroic seriousness as it might be played by a repertoire company of 1890." 

The play embodies all the well-known melodramatic phrases from "under this flannel shirt beats an honest heart," to the villain's "curses on you all." As is told to the audi­ence in the prologue, the production is an attempt "to take you back to the nineteenth century, to 1890 or thereabout, when the bustles had but Just gone out and the whole world was singing "Sweet Marie." 
Professor Frank Kelly, head of the department of speech and drama, and director of the show, announced re­cently that Richard Murgatroyd is developing a tnily rillainous sneer and the fair heroine her saintly smile. 
Thirty students will comprise the complete cast. As yet no names have been announced but rehearsals have been going on throughout the week, and Mr. Kelly reports that the pro­duction of "Gold in the Hills" prom­ises to be one of the outstanding ones to be given by the University players. 
December, 19-11
THE NOTRE DASIE ALUMNUS 
Board of Lay Trustees Holds Fall Meeting November 17 
Augmented Board Meets at University to Consider Administration of Endowment Funds; Has Been of Remarkable Service. 
The Board of Lay Trustees of the University of Notre Dame was orga­nized in the fall of 1920 "charged with the responsibility of holding, in­vesting and.administering the endow­ment funds of the University." 
In the succeeding decade and more of the expansion of Notre Dame, no agency has been more instrumental in achieving the maximum results from the resources with which it had to work. During the last two or three years, especially, when even sound investments went tobogganing, the aid and advice of this group of alumni and non-alumni leaders in the business world has been of inesti­mable value. 
The personnel of the Board, half alumni and half non-alumni, is a tribute to the esteem in which Notre Dame is held by the business leaders of America. 
There are, as a result of an in­crease from twelve to sixteen mem­bers by a resolution of the annual meeting a year ago, now eight non-alumni and eight alumni on the Board. The meetings were also in­creased by a resolution at the same meeting from one to two each year, adding a May meeting to the already established meeting on the third Tuesday of each November. 
Tlie Board is headed by Albert Russel Erskine, president of the Studebaker Corporation of .A.merica and a resident of South Bend, as chairman. Mr. Erskine's interest in Notre Dame is as long standing as Ms brilliant administration in the Studebaker Corporation itself. Mr. Erskine has held the leadership of the Board since its inception. 
Edward N. Hurley, former chair­man of the United States Shipping Board, prominent industrialist and international trade authority, more recently the donor of the Hurley College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce building, a resident of Chicago, is another of the non-alum­ni who have done so much through the agency of the Board. Mr. Hurley was also a member of the Board at its inauguration. 
James J. Phelan, a partner in the nationally prominent iirm of Horn­blower and Weeks, a resident of Bos­ton, brings to the Board one of the outstanding figures in New England. Besides a leadership in the business world, Mr. Phelan has excelled in the field of social, patriotic and religious sen'ice in a manner resulting in the conferring of the Laetare Medal by Notre Dame last March. 
Fred J. Fisher, one of the great family of Fishers who are associated with the automobile industry, a resi-
THE BOARD or LAY TRUSTEES—^Nov. 17, 1931 
Seated (left to right) Venj Rev. J. A. Burns, C.S.C.; Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, CS.C; .4.. R. E^sk-ine, Chairman; 
Byron V. ICanaley, C. C. Mitdiell. Standing (left to riglvt) Matthew J. Carney, John F. Gushing, Frank Walker, George 
M. Atison, Milc« O'Brien, Edward J. Doyle, C. Roy McCanna, Bro. Ephrem, CS.C, trea:Siirer. 
dent of Detroit, contributes to the Board a representation from one of-the great cities of America, from one of the great industrial families of the country, and from one of the basic industries. Mr. Fisher also happens to be one of the outstanding Catholic laymen in the Middle West. 
Miles W. O'Brien, one of the heads of the South Bend Lathe AVorks, sec­retar>' of the Board, has been an in­valuable asset to the organization since his appointment in 1922. Mr. O'Brien is one of the leading figures in the industry he represents, and the South Bend plant is internationally famous. His interest in the Univer­sity has been unusually broad and equally deep, extending from this im­mediate financial viewpoint well into the cultural and academic. 
Three new members of the non-alumni group on the Board were present at the recent meeting for the first time. Two were newly appointed in the regular course of business, and one was appointed to succeed the late Francis J. Reitz of Evansville, a pioneer member of the Board. The new members are C. Roy McCanna, Wisconsi n capitalist; Edward J. Doyle, president of the Edison Co., Chicago; and Matthew J. Carney, president of the Union Carbide and Carbon Co., New York City. All of these men have been actively inter­ested in Notre Dame for a number of years, their appointment to the Board resulting from manifestations of this interest. 
The alumni members need no in­troduction to readers of the ALUM­NUS, representing as they do those alumni whom Notre Dame men have elected to bring the best of counsel in the business world to the Univer­sity from the Association. 
The present members of the Board in the alumni group are: .Angus Mc­Donald, '00, president of the Southern 
 NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Pacific Railroad in Texas and Louisi­ana and its associated shipping com­panies, and a leader in the railroad industrj-; Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago broker, long prominent in the ad­vancement of Notre Dame interests through the medium of the Alumni Association; Clement C. Mitchell, Chicago attorney, one of the pioneer members of the Board, re-elected to fill the vacancy caused by the death of William P. Breen; Francis C. Walker, New York attorney, counsel for the Amalgamated Theaters; War­ren A. Cartier, Ludington banker, for eighteen years treasurer of the Alum­ni Association and one of it past Presidents; George M. Anson, Miami, Fla., capitalist; Frank E. Hering, edi­tor of the Eagles Magazine and re­cently President of the Association, and John F. Cushing, President of the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Co., Chicago, recently donor of the John F. Gushing '06 Hall of Engi­neering. 
Brother Leopold, C.S.C, The "Grand Old Man" of N. D. 
"LEMONADE AND FOURS" VETERAN RETAINS INTEREST AND .ACTIVITY; ONE OF FEW RE.AIAINING FRIENDS OF FATHER SORI.V. 
Back when grandad was a college boy and sporting his first pair of peg-top trousers about the campus, Bi'other Leopold came to Notre Dame. 
«: 
mu 
^^H ^^^^K J­
j^^^H 
^^.mt

fl wM$ 
^^H-$4^ 
^^^ 1 .':'•'-; 

^~fl 
.%• 
^^•y-j 

p.^u ^M'^^ 
^^H-^ 

v'-H 
^HE^?> 

^^^g#S: 
Today, after 65 years of service to the University, Brother Leopold still puts in his six hours a day. You'll see him, rake in hand, around th e Community House grounds, methodic­a 11 y cleaning up 
o 1 d leaves, piling them in little heaps and then energetic­ally shoveling them into his old wooden wheelbarrow. If you're not in any hurry, drop over an d say, "Hello." 

You'll find the Brother just as re^ sponsive, and sui-ely as cheerful, as he was in the days when he ruled over the campus candy store. 
Brother Leopold saw his first stein of beer in Germany in 1838. When he had attained the age of ten years, his education was cut short when his parents brought him, with his broth­ers and sisters, to America. The fam­ily settled at Reading, Pa., but later moved to Harrisburg. There his brother entered the priesthood and he was implored to do the same.- But Leopold was more inclined toward the Religious; therefore all persua­sion proved useless. On September 3, 1866, the University of Notre Dame welcomed him as a Brother. 
At that time Father Sorin was the only priest here. The moment Broth­er Leopold arrived, therefore. Father Sorin sent for him. Their marked difference in stature, was apparent when the founder, towering over the slighter form of the new arrival, de­manded in a booming voice, "What hobby have you,—what can you do?" Brother Leopold answered he -was a printer and was just about to plead inadequacy for the position on ac­count of poor health, when the good Father, almost weeping for joy, clapped a large hand on his shoulder and declared a miracle had occurred. It seems he had a great devotion iji the Blessed Virgin and desired to start a periodical in her honor. Up to then his project had been delayed due to the lack of a printer; he had never ceased praying that God would send him one. 
Against such circumstances, all ex­cuses Brother Leopold could offer proved to be of no avail. They were all waved aside, as too trivial to be considered, by Father Sorin, who pro­ceeded to carry out his brain-child with great enthusiasm. Enthusiasm that was shared by few. 
Mother Angelus, the founder of St. Mary's College, was selected to edit the first volume, 30,000 copies of which was distributed the following May, over the entire United States. The fact that The Are Maria was an instantaneous success stands witness to the perseverance and courage of Brother Leopold, who, though in ill health, supen-ised the whole -work. 
Shortly after he was replaced as University typesetter. Brother Leo­pold was made assistant postmaster. This chore left him ivith some spare time during the day, so when the postmaster's brother requested his .services in running the Brownson "rec" candy store, he assented. In two years he had charge of both the Brownson and the Minims' stores. 
Brother Leopold was relieved of his duties as musical director in 1903, due to lack of interest in the subject on the part of the students. He ran the two candy stores, however, for 40 years, until superseded by the cafe in 1922. At that time he retired to his present quarters, to indulge in less strenuous, but still useful, activities. 
At present. Brother Leopold has reached the grand old age of 96 years; though slightly deaf is as humorous as ever. He considers his vocation, as well he might, the most important thing in his life. He has a title which, while self-bestowed, nev­ertheless characterizes him perfectly. Modestly and •v.-ith a .slight, reminis­cent chuckle, he refers to himself as "the cornerstone of Notre Dame." There is a world of meaning in those few words. 
Rev. J. J. Burice^ *83, Made Monsignor 
Rev. James J. Kehoe, C.S.C., '11, Represents Notre Dame at Impressive Elevation of Beloved Priest. 
Donor of Scholarships Visits Father Bums 
Mr. Mathew J. Carney of New York City spent Nov. 17 at the Uni­versity visiting the Reverend James 
A. Bums, C.S.C, and attending the lay trustees meeting as a new member. 
Mr. Carney is the donor of four scholarships for undergraduates and, while here, he visited with the present holders. Charles Sheridan Wells, the first holder of a Carney scholarship, was graduated from the College of Commerce last June. 
University Probation Course Is Favorably Received. 
Within the last week letters from various sources, received by the de­partment of sociology, have indicated that the probation work course re­cently established at Notre Dame, is making a very favorable impression. The director of the Probation System of the United States Department of Justice has requested that Notre Dame students be allowed to work un­der the direction of United States probation oflicers during the summer months. 
In a forthcoming book, "The Organ­ization of Mental Hygiene in the Com­munity," published by the Common­wealth Fund, the Noti-e Dame course is described in considerable detail as an example of one of the few exist­ing projects attempting to injeet into the training of workers with delin­quents some knowledge of social case work and mental hygiene. 
It is encouraging to note that Har­vard university has just announced a graduate course for training prison officers. The Notre Dame course, es­tablished in 1929, is generally recog­nized as the first important attempt to train college men for the correc­tional field. The first class was graduated last June and all have been placed in the social work field. 

Students Correspond With N.D. 
Correspondence between students of French and German at Notre Dame, and students in France and Germany will be^n shortly under the direction of Dr. Paul Menge. 

Dr. Menge has the names of those students in his classes who wished to enter this field of activity. He said that in a few days each student would be assigned to a foreign correspondent. 
The American student will first write in English, and the French or German student will reply in his own language. As the intercourse pro­gresses, it is expected that each stu­dent will revert to the other's tongue to their mutual benefit. 
Described by His Excellency Bish­op Joseph H. Schlarman, as "one of the oldest and noblest priests in the Peoria Diocese," Eev. James J. Burke, A.B. '83, A.M. '86, a priest for forty-seven years and beloved pastor of St. Mark's church for twenty-one years, was invested with the rank of domestic prelate and the title of Monsignor during solemn high mass at the parish church, Tues­day, November 3. 
Bishop Schlarman, acting for Pope Pius XI who bestowed the honor up­on the Peoria priest, officiated at the investiture and preached the sermon. 
"To enumerate the various parishes and missions where Monsignor Burke labored: to count up the galaxy of churches, schools, rectories, and other institutions he built in the course of his long and useful career, is like giving the list of battles fought and won by Napoleon, with this differ­ence, that there is no Waterloo among them," the bishop declared. 
"Heaven smiles upon you," he con­tinued, turning to the veteran pastor. Father Burke, who is seventy-four years of age, "your friends congratu­late you, and as bishop I say to you: God bless you and your people." 
Monsignor Burke's natural joy at the signal honor conferred upon him, was shared by his parishioners who filled the church to capacity. The church seats seven hundred, but more than eight hundred tried to crowd in­to it. 
Monsignor Frederick Gahlman, pastor of St. Joseph's church, and Monsignor L. Bobkiewicz, pastor of St. Hyacinth's church, LaSalle, at­tended the investiture. 
Rev. John Fitzpatrick of Rock Island was celebrant of the solemn Mass. Rev. A. F. Timmins of Rut­land, HI., was deacon, and Rev. E. Kelley of Arlington, sub-deacon. Father James Kerrins, assistant pastor of St. Mark's church was chief master of ceremony, and Rev. Thom­as Jordan of St. Mary's cathedral, was assistant master of ceremony. 
Father Jordan read the bull which formally announced the high distinc­tion paid Monsignor Burke. 
Following the reading of this mes­sage from the Vatican, Rev. Burke crossed to where the Bishop sat, and the latter blessed the rochet and manteletta before placing these in­signia of the new dignities upon Father Burke's shoulders. The con­gregation sat in rapt attention dur­ing this brief but impressive rite. 
Loesch's mass in honor of St. Eliz­
abeth was sung by the church choir. 
The investiture mass was preceded by a grand procession, that began at the parish school, circled to the parish house, and then entered the church. At the head walked an altar boy carrying the crucifix, and two boys carrying candles, followed by fifty others, including fourteen little pages. Then came the priests, fol­lowed by a guard of honor composed of fourth degi-ee Knights of Colum­bus. Followed then the Monsignori, the officers of the Mass, Father Burke and Bishop Schlarman. 
Following the ceremonies at the church, many priests gathered at luncheon at Hotel Pere Marquette to honor the newly invested domestic prelate. Rev. Dr. John A. O'Brien, director of the Newman Foundation at the University of Illinois, presided as toastmaster. Dr. O'Brien called upon the Eev. M. J. O'Callaghan of Bloomington, the Rev. A. F. Timmins of Rutland, Rev. James DoUard of Canton, and the Rt. Rev. Bishop Schlarman to respond to various toasts. 
Father O'Brien paid the following tribute to Monsignor Burke: 
"A good and faithful priest who has grown gray in the service of his King, is honored by the Vicar of Christ with membership in his ofiicial household. It is no small achieve­ment to bear without faltering or without shirking the heavy burden of the priesthood for almost fifty years. 
"Outstanding among the priestly attributes of Father Burke is his fidelity. He never wearies in visiting the sick, the poor, and the needy in his parish." 
Monsignor Burke was honorary president of the Alumni Association in 1913-14, and again in 1917-18. Rev. James Kehoe, C.S.C, '11, represented Notre Dame at the ceremonies. 
Cotillion Is Successful 
Three hundred and t^venty-five couples, one-half of which were soph­omores and guests, attended the 'co­tillion of 1931 held at the Palais Royale ballroom Friday evening, No­vember 6. Herbie Kay's orchestra furnished the music in a pleasantly decorated setting. 
A separate section was reserved at the Penn game for cotillion-goers arid their guests. Approximately a hundred couples attended. 

IIIIMIIKOIIIIIIIIIailM tlllllllllllllll IIIIIIIIHMHMinilMIIM«llttlinMIIHiiMltliMMMI(MMHMtR 



EDITORIAL: 

QM 
DEFEAT 
At last, Notre Dame's football team has met defeat. Twenty-six opponents had entered games since 1928 with the hope of effecting this result. Northwestern came cloest with its scoreless tie this Fall. It remained for the gallant and powerful Trojans, coached by Howard Jones, coming tivo-thirds of the way across the United States, smarting from a sensational upset of last year, to accomplish the inevitable. And because defeat on some Saturday afternoon was inevitable, Notre Dame is pleased that these boys who have been such able adversaries, who have suffered similar last minute reverses from Notre Dame, and who play football as Notre Dame believes football should be played, are the victors. Notre Dame lost the immediate gloiy of the contest. But 
it is no thought of consolation that prompts the observa­tion that Notre Dame has probably won more than it lost. Supremacy requires its price. It produces an artificial 
glamor. The public becomes hyper-critical. The common­place is haloed. Envy and prejudice spring up. Imagina­tions are fired beyond reason. Professional sports, business concerns, crime, and .society can pay this price. Uniyersities can not, and continue their proper academic tenor. 
Notre Dame was losing, in the public eye, that per­spective which its status as a leading educational insti­tution should command. The ALUMNUS believes that in losing the game and its immediate gl6i-y the University 
will enjoy ultimate gain. 
<> 


THE COACHING STAFF 
Hunk -"Anderson and his associates have had a narrow escape. The Southern Califoi-nia game saved them. 
Success had placed upon Knute Rockne a crown that had become heavy indeed before that beloved head was bowed in death. It had placed upon Notre Dame a stamp of infallibility that no team could rightfully carry. It had brought to the boys a tension unjust to those ends that football best sen'es. 
During the season, undex- the able guidance of Coach Anderson and his assistants, it looked as if those labels were to persist. The defeats i-emoved them. 
The tension is relieved. The football world is back to the rest of the earth, and the ALUMNUS predicts that Jesse Harper, Hunk, his assistants and his boys will find it a better place in which to live. 
The defeats were glorious. There is no voice lifted to question the ability of the men who coached the superb Notre Dame team through this great season. No man can say the boys of 1931 denied their game a breath they might have given. 
Alexander (not \V. A.) wept, the story goes, when all was won. Somehow it seems better that Hunk is not in 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiitiii till mtiiiiiiiinnmiiiiiiiMiiMiitiiiiMmMiiifniMiiiiiiititil 

THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
In the Editor's capacity as an officer of the Rockne Memorial -•Vssociation, conmient here, under any other circumstances than those involved, might be misconstrued. 
But there is no hesitation in urging alumni to ,play the parts assigned to them in this enterprise, and to con­gratulate those who have already participated in the organization work throughout the country. 
Rock was first of all a Notre Dame man. In per­petuating his memory, Notre Dame men should thus be first of all. 
Pi'ogress is slow. The campaign conforms to its original plan—to offer only an opportunity for contributing, rather than to drive toward an objective. The spirit is unusually willing. The slowness is obviously due the weakness of the material substances in this year of 1931. 
Success among alumni will mean the success of the project. 
<> 

•STUDENT CO-OPERATION 
The Alumni Secretai-y took the initiative recently in urging the Presidents' Council, an organization of leaders of campus groups, to consider the alumni organizations of a corresponding nature, particularly the geographic units, in plans for activities such as vacation dances, the im­mediate thought being of course the large number of Christmas dances held each year. 
Students and alumni have been at almost equal fault in those misunderstandings which the past has produced, fortunately few. The Presidents' Council has overcome much of the cause of student mistakes. The Alumni Asso­ciation ought to do the same for the Alumni Clubs. 
The Alumni Office is depending on the Clubs to co-oper­ate with the students. 
The mutual advantages are self-evident. 
<> 


THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
Pardon the injection of a little shop talk. 
The Rockne Memorial Association is an excellent thing, its objective ideal. The football season at Notre Dame, particularly this one, has been of vital significance. The University grows by leaps and bounds and the world marvels. 
But don't forget in this pleasant turmoil, the Alumni Association, that organization which can do its work on just two fundamental principles, and practices,—dues and contributions to the Living Endowment. 
Too many of you have limited your fervor to foreign fields. 
Sorry, but the ALUMNUS cannot conscientiously say 
that position—this year. anything else but. 



Ballots For New Constitution Being Mailed 
Membership Urged to Vote on Changes Proposed; Progress of Association Demands Some Action in the Alteration of Present Form. 
Ballots for the acceptance or re­jection of the new Constitutional set-up will be in the mail when you read this notice, in accordance with the instructions {pven the Board of Directors by th3 Annual Meeting in June. 
The Constitution was 2'i'intEd in the October and November issues of the ALUirNUS, as required. 
The Constitution Committee, Messrs. John W. Costello, '12, chairman, Tim­othy P. Galvin, '16, and Paul Castner. '23, gave long and earnest thought to the instrument. 

It makes several decided changes, it is true. On the other hand, consider the decided changes at Notre Dame and in the Association membership, since the existing Constitution was effected in 1925. 
The Alumni Association has doubled 

its actual membership. 
There are 67 Local Alumni Clubs 

where there were 37 at that time. 
There are 3,100 students at Notre Dame, where the enrollment in 192.5 was a thousand less. 
There was at that time one part-time Alumni Secretary. The Office now has a full-time Secretary and two assistants. 
The Treasurer then handled three or four thousand dollars a year. The Treasurer now is burdened by weekly reports with numberless small figures, totaling, last vear, approximately $20,000. 
The need for change seems self-evident, and we should only marvel at the wisdom of the 1925 Constitutional Committee whose product has psr­mitted this expansion during these six years without earlier change. 
The Editor has besn asked concern­ing the failure to provide for the Life Members in the new Constitution. Like practically all instruments of its kind, its provisions are not retroactive. The present Life Members continue to hold that position of honor—there are only six. Anyone desiring to es­tablish such a Life Membership is still able, and urged, to do so by the payment of $150—removing with one stroke of the pen any further obliga­tion for dues. 
Perhaps an outstanding change is the condensing of the offices of Sec­retary and Treasurer. It is no longer possible to expect any member of th2 Association to hold this position as honorary. The present Treasurer is contributing time and money to the conduct of that office out of al! pro­
portion to reasonable expectation. Moneys are collected by the Alumni Secretai-y. Bills are contracted by the Secretary. Books could be kept with little moi-e effort than is now in­volved in the ti-ansmission of funds and reports to the Treasurer. It will therefore eliminate considerable dupli­cation and remove an impossible bur­den from some member of the Asso­ciation to iiut th3 Treasurership in the Alumni Office. The Secretary-Treasurer will then be bonded and provisions made for an annual audit­ing of the books of the -Association, with, of course, the annual I'epoi-ts condensed to one. 
The present Board of Directors is continued with the following addi­tions: a second vice-president to assist the administi-ation in the gi'owing and clearly defined branches of the Asso­ciation's developments. This second vice-president will have specific con­cern for the development of the Clubs and the newly created Districts. An­other addition is a director to be elected for one year by the graduat­ing Class from its membership. This cements the Class and Association in­terests during the ti-ansition period and gives this important group a voice in the Association during their first year out. 
Some criticism has arisen over the clause limiting the nominations for the presidency and vice-presidency to holders of a degree in course. This unfortunate phase was anticipated by the Constitutional Committee.. The past and present history of the Asso­ciation is studded with names of those loyal Notre Dame msn of a com­paratively recent generation in which a degree was secondary matter. Their interest, their wisdom, and their loy­alty to Notre Dame are above ques­tion. The Committee's consideration v.-as for the future—that future which even now sees between four and five hundred boys, many of them un­acquainted with their own Classmates, graduated each June. The Commit­tee con.sidered the more vital situation of Notre Dame at present in which some 2,100 boys drop out of school without a degree and for various causes between the first and last years of the normal courses. Among this large present and future group are, and will be, many boys who have not assimilated the true spirit of Notre Dame as the boys of an older, more familiar era gained it in even the shoi-test stay on the campus. Many of these modern boys live oflp-campus. 
Many of them were never fitted for Notre Dame. The daily papers are unfortunately an increasing exhibit for the prosecution. It is with this future in mind that the Committee has preserved for those who have at least received a degree in course from Notre Dame the nominal leadership of the Association. The Committee sincerely regi-ets the changing times that make this restriction necessary in the face of achievement and popu­larity of hundreds of non-graduates of the older Notre Dame when Minim, Prsp, Brownson and Sorin were one in spirit. But as the i)ower of the Association grows, the Committee feels that the wielding of that power must be the more carefully guarded. Positions of honor and trust in the Association remain—the Directorate, the District organizations, the Lay Trustees, and so on, for those out­standing men we all can call to mind who, through some circumstance, hold no degree in course. 
Article IV of the By-Laws brings something new to the Notre Dame alumni world, a set-up of Districts and officei-s for their development. This provision is the outgrowth of the rapid increase in the number and sig­nificance of Local Alumni Clubs. The -•Mumni Office has for several yeai's felt its inadequacy to properly co­operate in the activities of these vari­ous Clubs. The Council of Local Clubs is a partial answer to that pi-oblem, but the difficulties of distance have hampered the work of that organiza­tion. Hence, in the new Constitu­tional changes, the country has been ordered districted, with a governor at the head of each District. The ad­vantages to the central organization of this concentration of geographical units is obvious. It should also give to every part of the country a strong voice in the affairs of the Association. The Clubs will of course be the major concei-n of these governors, but there is also a great oppoi-tunity for service in these districts in those communities where but a few Notre Dame men reside or where Notre Dame can profitably be represented in educa­tional or civic interests. 
This article of the By-Laws has the actual possibility of doing far more for the development of the Association and the University itself than any other phase of the changes in the new Constitution. 
The Alumni Office believes that a 
{Continued on ne.xt pairc) 

Empress Eugenie In Another Light 
Notre Dame Has More Important Memories of the Empress Than Her Rakish Headgear. 
Among possessions most treasured at the University of Notre Dame are a set of gold cloth vestments and a large monstrance kept in the sacristy of Sacred Heart church. 
Expensive as the materials make them, these sacred objects are even more valued because of a fact con­nected with their history. They were given to the University by Napoleon III, emperor of France, and his cur­rently popular wife, the Empress Eugenie. 
For 60 years now, perhaps longer, the vestments and the monstrance have been used in sen-ices in Sacred Heart church. They have bcome a part of church ceremonies. Yet so rare are they that only a few churches in the world have anything comparable. 
The unique feature of the vest­ments, there are ten in all, is that they are made of gold cloth, deco­rated with gold embroidery and lined with red sateen. Gold is not a li­turgical color in the Roman Catholic church, but can be used in the place of white, red and green colors. It cannot be used, however, when robes of purple and black must be worn for the Mass; these connote sorrow and mourning in the liturgy. 
The monstrance, used during the benediction of the Blessed Sacrament, is unusual because of its size and beauty. It stands three and one-half feet high, and is gold-plated. Across the bottom is inscribed in French: "Donated by his majesty, Emperor Napoleon III of Prance to the Uni­versitv of Notre Dame of the Lake, ind." 
The value of these treasures is furthermore enhanced because of what they stand for in the history of Notre Dame. Father Edward Sorin, founder and first president of the University, was a personal friend of Napoleon and the Empress Eur genie. . 
Father Sorin made frequent voy­ages to France during his adminis­tration—he was still president when Napoleon died in 1870—and visited Napoleon many times. The emperor and empress became interested in the university that Father Sorin had founded and was leading through such a rapid growth. 
The vestments and the monstrance were given as a token of their friend­ship with Father Sorin, and of their best wishes for his university. The astronomical instruments for the ob­servatory and the gold crown over the Virgin's statue in the Lady chap­el were also gifts of Napoleon and his currently popular empress. 
The ve.straents include one chasu­ble, two dalmatics and seven copes. The chasuble is used by the priest celebrating Mass, and the dalmatics by his assistants. The cope is worn at Benediction and during the Asper­ges. The vestments have been worn on hundreds of occasions, and are not reser\'ed for special occasions as is the monstrance, which is used only three or four times a year. The last occasion at which the latter was used was at solemn Benediction on New­Year's day. 

Rogers Praises N. D. President 
[Note: The ALUMNUS hopes to be pardoned for using the following nationally syndicated tribute to the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C] 
BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Oct. 29.—Father O'Donnell, head of the great Notre Dame University, paid me the honor of a visit at the "lean to" here Tuesday. By the way, he says that constant usage makes a thing correct and that "Notre Dame" is 0. K., and the ones who try to say "Notrey Dom" are wrong. He says An­derson is doing a great job of coaching in Rockne's place. No business or school is bigger than the head of it, and you just have to meet Father O'Donnell and chat with him to see why that school has prospered. 
Yours. WILL. 

BALLOTS FOR NEW CON­STITUTION MAILED 
(Continucil frnm Paije 78) 

careful consideration of the new Con­stitution with an understanding of the motives of the Committee in making the changes involved, will result in an appreciation of the effort the Com­mittee expended as well as the need for this or some similar instrument involving such changes. 
Ballots are being mailed now. They are to be returned not later than Feb­ruary 15, as provided by the Resolu­tion of the 1931 Annual Meeting. 
Prominent N. D. Man Killed 
[£ii. NOTE; A man lone unidentified with the University, the following; clipping concern­ing Horace McVicker is the more interesting.] 
Horace McVicker, 78 years old, one of the oldest members of the Friars Club, died July 30 at his summer home at Seabright, N. J., as a result of having been hit by an automobile when he was crossing the street be­tween his front door and the ocean. 
Mr. McVicker was the son of the late James H. McVicker, owner of McVicker's Theater in Chicago. His sister, Mary McVicker, was the sec­ond wife of Edwin Booth, the actor. He was bom in Boston and educated at the Jonathan Edwards School at Stockbridge, Mass., and at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. From the time he left college until he retired a few years ago Mr. McVicker spent his entire life in the theater. 
After a brief apprenticeship with his father in Chicago he went to New York as personal manager for Edwin Booth, then playing under the. man­agement of the elder McVicker, and he was associated with Mr. Booth for many years. When Henry E. Abbey and Robert Goelet built Ab­bey's Theater (later the Knieker­boiker) in 1893 Mr. McVicker be­came manager, and was there during the years when Sir Henry Irving, Ellen Terry, Sarah Bernhardt, Mme. Rejane and other international stars were first introduced, to American audiences. 
When Ethel Barrymore was sent out as a young star, the Frohmans sent Horace McVicker along as her persona! manager, and that associa­tion lasted for many seasons. 
His widow is the former Aflie Weaver, whom he met when she was playing ingenue roles in his father's theater, and who was leading woman with Mr. Booth in Shakespearean repertory at the time she married and retired from the theater. She and their two daughters, AfBe and Horatia McVicker, were with him when he died. 

Lay Faculty Hears Paper 

"Simplicity of Poetry" was the sub­ject of a paper delivered by Professor Andrew T. Smithberger, of the Eng­lish department, at the regular month­ly meeting of the lay faculty of the College of Arts and Letters. This meeting, which was held at the Olden­burg Inn, Tuesday evening, Nov. 3, followed the dinner which is a char­acteristic feature of each regular gathering. The next meeting of the organization will be held December 14. 
tiiaii •••until ••••••^ 
B.. 


Alumni Notre Dame Shares With The World 
No, 3.—^7?! the Laiv 

QHM ll|)t»t))Utlt(tM)UI«ll*ll(>tlltt(« 
r / y^ -lyf . . LL.B. 'So, Litt.B. 'OG, is one of the Icmlin'i JO//// (j-. IVlOtt^ Notre Dame attorneys of the West Coast, with offices in the Citizens Bank Bltlg., Los Angeles. Coming from an old Span­ish family on his mother's side, Mr. Mott is thoroughly conversant with Latin-American affairs and accompanied Hoover when he went to South jlmerica-as President-elect. Mr. Mott was formerly a law partner of Curtis D. Wilbur. Mr. Mott has a reputation in the West as a public speaker in both English and Spanish. His uncle, Ygnacio Sepulveda, was the first superior court judge of Los Angeles county. Mr. Mott's legal background in Southern Califoiitia is therefore most nnusitul and interesting, backed by his own rcmai-kable ability. 
'or, LL.M. 'OS, is one of the 

T. Paul AdcGa/7/70}/, LL.B. Yorkers" acquisition,
many"New by coming to the metropolis from the not far distant Coming, a Notre Dame center in itself. Paul made the trip by way of Notre Dame ond his success in the city is a tribute to his training. He is noio the surviving partner of Ncicton and McGannon, with offices in the Bar Building. He is a strong 
.factor in the New-York state Republican party. Paul is serving his third year as a Director of the Admiiii Associaiion, oiirf is a valuable repre­sentative in the East. Paul is a bachelor. 
rhoto by Blank & Stnller 

« // T >^ 7 LL.B. 'Bti, IS one of the legal and jiolitical Jllt?€/'t J . KjCllCn, leaders in the state of Montana. .•Ittomey General of the State for eight years, he is now completing hh sixth year-us Associate Jtistice of the Supreme Court of Montana. Judge Galen .law service during the World War, acting ns Jndge Advocate General of the 
A. E. F. in Siberia for a year. Judge Galen was his party's nominee for the U. S. Senate last year, being defeated after an important political battle by the veteran Thomas Walsh. He comes from a pio^ieer Montana family. Judge Galen is married and has one son, James Galen, 
President Frank Hayes Appoints Nominating Committees 
Important Task of Selecting Slates for 1932-33 Officers to Rest in Familiar and Capable Hands; Committees Cover Prominent Geographic Areas of Association. 
With the appointment of Nominat­ing Committees for the selection of candidates for the offices of the Association' in 1932-1933, President Frank Hayes has performed one of the most important tasks of the President. 
The committees, as specified in the Constitution, are equal in powers and not to be identified with the nomina­tions. Only the necessity for refer­ence in the ALUMNUS makes it nec­essary to designate them Committees 
(a) and (b). A coin is tossed to de­termine (a). 
The result (after a long delay hunting for a coin in the .Alumni Of­fice) make the following Committee (a): 
Thomas Curry, LL.B. '14, 647 Main St., Hartford, Conn., Chairman; Dan­iel Coughlin, Ph.B. Joum., '22, Was­eca, Minn.: James P. Swift, LL.B. '24, 422 Interurban BIdg., Dallas. Te.\as. 
•Which leaves Committee (b): 

-Arthur Hughes, Ph.B. '11. LL.B. '17, 134 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, Chairman; John Cassidy, LL.B. '17, 904 Peoria Life Bldg., Peoria, 111.; Daniel O'Neil, E.E. '25, 9 W. 16th St., New York City. 
President Hayes has given to these committees the consideration that the importance of their duties de­.serves. Officers of the Alumni As­sociation no longer serve a purely honorary purpose. This fact becomes more evident with each year. Presi­dent Hayes found that out. He has given liberally of his time to the project, and was fortunately so situ­ated as to be able to do so. His se­lection of committees is based upon a close contact with the affairs and the personnel of the Association. The committees purport to be nothing other than six good men and true whom the President believes willing and qualified to select the candidates for office for the next Association year. 
The personnel is well known. Tom Curry is connected with Notre Dame as are few.of our alumni. His ac­tivities in the, Connecticut Valley have been reflected in a great and growing Notre Dame interest there. Danny Coughlin is another member of a Notre Dame family, a former football player, at present pursuing journalism with a success reflected in his vice-presidency of the Min­nesota publishers association. Jim Swift, former chairman of the S. A. 
C. combines a recent past famous for his leadership and a knowledge of the Northwest, his former home, and the Southwest, his present place of prac­tice. 
Committee (b) is no less dintin­guished. Arthur Hughes is one of the University's outstanding alumni in Chicago and combines a remark­able knowledge of all phases of Notre Dame with a keen interest in the progress of those phases. John Cassidy has been one of the live wires charged with the duty of pro­moting Notre Dame in Peoria. As a result Notre Dame knows Peoria for some other reason than "Lightnin'." Dan O'Neil, an electrical engineer with the A. T. & T. in New York City, is one of the prominent younger alumni in the metropolis, a former member of the Board of Governors of the Notre Dame Club. Dan taught English at Notre Dame for a year after his graduation, indicating the unusual type of engineer he is. 
In going over the growing list of prominent and active alumni. Presi­dent Hayes regretted that the Con­stitution called for but six to perform the duties of nominations. Many good men might have been added of equal merit. However, the years claim this surplus talent quickly. Certainly the committees named are competent. 
The duties of the Committees are familiar to most of you. 
ARTICLE Vn.­
ELECTION OF OFFICERS 

Section 1. -At the annual meeting, but not later than November 1st fol­lowing, the incoming President shall appoint two nominating committees, of three members each, who have not held office for a year. 
Nominations for all elective offices shall be made by these committees. 
The names and addresses of the meinbers of these committees shall be published in every edition of the "Notre Dame Alumnus" issued after November 1st of that year and until January 20th following, with a re­quest for suggestions from the mem­bership at large. 
Section 2. These two committees shall confer separately, but each shall apprise the other of its conclusions, upon the nomination for President, on or before January 20th. The two committees are required to make dif­ferent nominations for President; but otherwise shall not be restricted against duplication of nominations. On or before February 1st, both com­mittees shall report their nominations to the President and to the Secre­tary; and from thence forward, the Secretary shall cause such nomina­tions to be published in the ALUM­NUS continuously until the annual meeting without reference to which committee made the nominations. 
Section 3. Any twenty-five mem­bers, not more than ten of whom shall reside in any one county, may, by petition addressed to the Secre­tary, make other nominations, and providing this is done by filing same with the Secretary not later than March 1st. Such nominations shall also be published in the ALUMNUS after they are received, as in the pre­ceding section required. 
Section 4. The names of all per­sons nominated shall be placed by the Secretary on a printed Ballott, in alphabetical order, without distinc­tion as to method of nomination, and one ballot, together with an envelope marked "Ballot," with lines for the signature and address of the voter, shall be mailed, on or before May 20th to each member entitled to vote. 
The ALUMNUS suggests that any action independent of the regular channels be taken early. Several sug­gestions have been made in other in­stances that, while they possessed unquestioned merit, were outside the constitutional provisions and thus had to be wrapped .in a completely new ball of red tape. 
ISliiimttmmmu 
'•EJ 




ATHLETICS: 

" B Y JOSEP H X^ETRITZ, *32 nit»">"""»"»""""""»""'<""" iminimiiin 


N. D. Closes Successful Football Season 
Fans Satisfied With Coach Anderson's Showing In Most Difficult Spot; Two Final Games Remove Championship Tension. 
Notre Dame has passed a crisis in its athletic history; passed it, we should say, quite successfully. 
Six victories, a tie, and two defeats stand as Notre Dame's i-ecord in the "year after Eockne" on the football field. The two defeats at the hands of two teams Notre Dame would most want to lose to if defeat were nece.=­sary, were bitter pills to swallow. But in the better perspective given by the passage of a little time, it becomes more and more apparent that they were a good thing for football as a whole and for Notre Dame in par­ticular. 
The monotony of Notre Dame vic­tories, 25 of them in three years with­out a break, was dramatically dis­turbed by the great teams of Southern California and Army. The world at large found that Notre Dame's play­ers are, after all, flesh and blood hu­man beings, that Notre Dame is not merely a football factory turning out robots who could go through their paces on the gridiron flawlessly, un­tiringly. 
At Notre Dame it relieved the ten­sion on Coach "Hunk" Anderson and the players of upholding the great record of the teams of 1929 and 1930. 
Now the air is cleared, "The Hunker" will start out on his own next year, the team will be just another Notre Dame team, playing naturally and without the severe mental strain which proved its undoing in la.«t game of the season. 
For it was against Army, when the Cadets played inspired ball, that Notre Dame showed its only weakness of the season. The 16 to 14 loss to Southern California may be attributed to many things, notably, the Trojans' great last quarter rally, but Notre Dame was still riding on its crest of 

ONE OF THE BEST COMBINATIONS OF THE SEASON 
Left to right in ilie line: MaJicny, Kozak, Hoffinan, Capt. Yarr, Greeney, Culver, Kosky. Backfield: Sheeketski, Melinkovich, Jaskiokich, Schwartz. 
THE 

perfection for the first three-quarters 
of that contest. 
In short, the season resolves itself 
into this: Notre Dame's big game of 
the year at the start of the season 
seemed logically to be its Oct. 10 game 
with Northwestern. It was necessaiy 
to bring the team along fast to be 
ready for this game. Notre Dame was 
ready — it defeated Indiana, tied 
Northwestern under impossible play­
ing conditions, and scored impressive 
victories over Drake, Pitt, Carnegie, 
Penn, and Navy. The team started 
out at a fast clip and maintained the 
pace thi'ough all of these games. 
Indiana, Northwestern, Drake, Pitt, and Penn were all undefeated before Notre Dame met them. Southern California was defeated once but was ranked by one and all as the greatest team on the coast. Navy, the only team which looked easy before the game, held Notre Dame to three touch­downs, two of them on passes, and in­jured three men so seriously that two of them were lost for the remainder of the season and another was able to play only a few minutes against Army. . 
When Southern California struck its crushing blow in the final seconds of the classic game which filled Notre Dame stadium, Notre Dame was hit off balance. The team had cracked, there was a nemotional let-down, and balance was not regained in time to stop the frantic charges of an Army team out for blood. 
For purposes of record, let us re­view here the conquests of the Irish during the past season, even though the November issue of the ALUM­NUS gave accounts of the first four games. 
Notre Dame, 25; Indiana, 0. 

Notre Dame opened its season aus­piciously by scoring as many touch­downs as the 1930 national champions could at the peak of their form, two more than the 1929 champions could register in their opening game. 
Notre Dame, 0; Northwestern, 0 
It rained that day, as you will re­member if you were thei-e. Notre Dame outplayed the Wildcats two-to­one on the basis of first downs and yards from scrimmage; Schwartz proved himself the best back in the country by gaining five yards every trip and averaging 46 yards on his punts, ten yards more than Olson of Northwestern could get with his bril­liant toe. 
Notre Dame, 63; Drake, 0. 

Coach Ossie Solem of Drake said after the game that his team was bet­ter than some of the other teams he 
 NoTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
BANAS SCORES FIRST TOUCHDOWN 

npmmm 
The Ninth N. D. Fullback 

has sent against Notre Dame, yet the Irish, using 41 players down to the fourth team, scored more points than any other Irish eleven in the past five seasons. 
Notre Dame, 25; Pittsburgh, 12. 
Dr. John Bain Sutherland, Pitt coach, brought a veteran team, better than last year's, the best in the East, stung by last year's 35 to 19 victory, and left on the tail end of a score, the margin of which was 14 points, the same as last year. 
Notre Dame, 19; Carnegie Tech, 0. 
Coach "Hunk" Anderson, who was sei-ving his first year as assistant coach in 1922 when Notre Dame won, 
a H I 1932 Football Schedule | 
r (Officially released by Jesse C. Harper) £ 
I October S— f = Haskell Institute at Xotre Dame. | 
: October 15— i = Drake University at Notre Dame. : 
I October 22— . : z Cameffic Tech. at Notre Dame. = 
i October 29— I I Univ. ot PittsburKh at Pittsburslh. | 
= November 5— z z University of Kansas at Lawrence. : 
I November 12— S I Northwestern Univ. at Notre Dame. | 
= November 19— | = Navy (place to be (lociiled). = 
= November 26— i = Army at New York City. = 
= December 10— z z University of Siuthci-n Cilifornia at E : Los AnKcIes. : 
Since the 1930 Season Opened 
19 to 0, who had charge of the team in 1926 when the Tartans stopped the Irish march to a national title, 19 to 0, won by the same score as coach on his own for Notre Dame. The margin of victory was larger than either of the teams of the last two years could pile up. 
Notre Dame, 49; Pennsylvania, 0. 
Seven touchdowns by seven men and seven points after touchdown by four men characterized this great team victory over the previously un­defeated Quakers. The difference be­tween the teams was nine points greater than in 1930 when the na­tional champions fought for Marty Brill, and won, 60 to 20. 
Notre Dame, 20; Navy, 0. 

Navy, not accustomed to its new Notre Dame system as installed by Edgar (Hip) Miller, tackle with the Four Horsemen of 1924, was weak on offense and didn't make a first down. On defense, though, where courage and aggressiveness count more than anything else, the Middies were su­perb. They held Notre Dame to three touchdowns, two of them on passes. The difference, though, was only four points less than that which separated these two teams last year. It was two touchdowns more than the margin in 1929. 
So. California, 16; Notre Dame, 14. 
There are hundreds of ways which suggest themselves to Notre Dame followers in which the Irish could have pulled this game out of the fire, but the general trend of post mor­tems on the classic is that Southern California deserved the victory on the basis of its great come back and 
(Continueil on Pa«e 86) 

Around And About The Campus 
CAMPUS CONTESTS "What's new in campus ballyhoo" 
•was expressed by the senior class in their annual football dance, spon­sored by the S. A. C; Chairman Thomas K. Mahaffey, Jr., (Indianapo­lis Mahaffeys) got the bright idea of running an "Ugliest Man" contest. One ticket, one vote. Said chairman automatically became ineligible. Con­test ended in favor of John F. Fin­neran, junior class president. Wil­lard Joseph Croxall, senior, did every­thing but hire Pat Manion in his campaign. He lacked several votes to win. 
HISTRIONICS 
Coach Kelly of the University 
Theatre promises to resurrect the 
immortal Jack Dalton and Little Nell. 
Memories of that 1S90 melodrama 
will be revived when Washington hall 
reverberates with "curses on you all" 
of the villianous Richard Murga­
troyd. The students will be taken to 
the "bowery" in the three-act pres­
entation, "Gold in the Hills," or "The 
Dead Sister's Secret." 
Guns, hisses and bronx cheers will 
be checked at the box office. 
OFF TO WAR 
Two hundred campusites availed themselves of extra-special cut rates on the New York Central to go to the Army game. Responsible for the trip were Ed. Kosky and Sal Bon­tempo, Metropolitan and New Jersey club prexies, respectively. 
GLEE CLUBBERS 
The Indianapolis alumni were to receive a rare privilege on December 2, when the Joseph J. Casasanta­directed singing group appeared on the stage of the Circle theater in that city. The occasion was the showing of "Touchdown," adapted from the novel, "Stadium," by the facile pen of Frank Wallace, '23. December 2nd 
•was "Notre Dame Day." Other Indi­ana collegiate glee clubs appearing were: Purdue, Indiana, Butler, Frank­lin, DePauw, and Wabash. 
By JOHN A. KIENER, '32 
THANKSGIVING 
Several hundred huge turkeys went to war here Thanksgiving day. They were completely overwhelmed by the superior numbers of the student body, although somewhat depleted by the exodus eastward. The Turko-Student problem was solved within a half-hour. 
ANNUAL INTERVIEW 
Each year it has been our endeavor 
to get an exclusi%-e inten'iew with 
Albert A. Albert. His words and 
actions are always to the point. Last 
year, you remember, Albert told us 
"Things are picking up." We asked 
him last week about that statement, 
and about the depression. 
"You can expect a drop any day 
now," he said. And darned if that 
big tree near the post office didn't 
shed all its leaves the very next day. 
GORJIAN WINS; 
To the tape they ran, running.and pimnjng. Funny Fellow Gorman beat out Les Grady in the race to see whose funny mag would be on the stands first. The Juggler's "Holly­wood" number took the film colony and its inhabitants for a "ride." Les Grady's new prodigy, "Hullabaloo" appeared several days later with like intentions. 
BROTHER LEOPOLD 
Ninety-three years old. Brother Leopold, still puts in his six hours work a day. Students see this ven­erable old Brother raking the grounds around the Community House every day. After sixty-five years of con­tinuous service as printer, assistant-postmaster, and head of the candy store in Brownson "rec," he is still on the job. 
Modestly and with a slight, remi­niscent chuckle, he refers to himself as "the cornerstone of Notre Dame." That title, while self-bestowed, char­acterizes him perfectly. There are not many who can say that Father Sorin ordered them to do this and do that. Brother Leopold, bom in 1838, is one of those few. 
SORIN AGGIES 
The prides of the subway looked forward to their battle with the Corby racketeers on the gridiron. It was to be Sorin's first football team in years. . . . but alas and alack, the deal fell through, Sorin's two teams willing nevertheless. It remains now to be seen whether or not Sorin can muster enough hearties to "go to court" and fight the case on the bas­ketball floor. 
CAPACITY CROWD 
With the exception of only a small section the new stadium was jammed with folks eager to see the three-year undefeated Fighting Irish. At the iinish the crowd held countless tear-dimmed eyes. The Trojans came, they saw the tremendous throngs and the great Notre Dame team, and they conquered. 
The game was, as everybody could imagine, a heart-breaker for all. Some said Notre Dame didn't know how to lose. Others were glad that the team that came so far was able to tote away the first defeat in three 
DEPRESSION ITEM 
For some unknown reason the cam­pus clubs (especially the city and state) have been very lax in their meetings this year. In all respects, however, the usual quota of Christ­mas dances is being planned. Ob­servers are wondering if the clubs are being kept intact for that sole reason. Seems that the "hard times" would make it more than necessary to have campus activity with empty pocketbooks prohibiting town-visits. 
A QUARTET 
Not often are four brothers enrolled in the same university at the same time. Notre Dame is proud of its quartet: the Locher brothers of Mon­ticello, Iowa. Paul R. is a freshman in the College of Science; Robert C, a sophomore Science man; John J., Jr., a sophomore in Arts and Letters; and Simon E., a jimior in Arts and Letters. Two are in St. Edward's' Hall; others in Badin and Sophomore. Not much left in Monticello. 

Religious Page John F. O'Hara, C.S.C. 
Pnfcd of Rdiglon 
CARD OP THANKS 
We have to thank: 

1.
 Those who have returned so promptly the questionnaires for the supplementary Religious Survey; 

2.
 The many who have enclosed personal notes of greeting and good wishes with their questionnaires; 

3.
 The alumni who have sent con­tributions for the pamphlet rack, the Bengal Mission, and other worthy causes. 


Necessity makes "the will for the deed" the rule in this public an­nouncement of thanks. Things have happened too fast this fall to permit of prr^-ate correspondence, but we cannot allow the numberless good­will messages to pass unacknowl­edged. 
To date nearly seven hundred ques­tionnaires have been returned by married alumni, more than twice as many as were received in the original survey last spring. The mixed mar­riage percentage has been reduced from eleven to ten by these added re­turns. December 15 has been fixed as the closing date for the supple­mentary survey; tabulation must be­gin by that date if the report is to be issued this winter. 
BIRTH CONTROL 

In the suggestions offered for topics to be treated in this page, birth control leads. Adequate treat­ment of the subject is, of course, im­possible in the limits of one page, but we will endeavor to lay down a few helpful thoughts. 
For a Bible Christian the matter of the sinfulness of birth prevention is settled by the book of Genesis, 38 :10, wherein it is related that God slew Onan, "Because he did a detestable thing." 
For a Catholic the matter is settled by the Catholic Church, which has always condemned contraception. The matter is put succinctly by His Holi­ness, Pius XI, in his notable En­cyclical "On Christian Marriage," wherein he says: "No reason, how­ever grave, may be put forward by which anything intrinsically against nature may become conformable to nature and morally good. Since, therefore, the conjugal act is destined primarily by nature for the begetting of children, those who in cvercising it deliberately frustrate its natural power and purpose sin against nature and commit a deed which is shameful and intrinsically vicious." 
For the Notre Dame man the mat­ter is more than settled. With the ordinary man he must observe the natural law, with the Christian he must fear the judgment of God on sinners, with the average Catholic he must accept the word of the Church on all her teachings, for not to do so is to reject the divine author­ity behind her teachings—but more than all of these he must defend Christian womanhood against those men and women who would destroy its ideals and make void what the Church has accomplished in these nineteen centuries. 
His special obligation arises out of the nature of his relationship to the school which is dedicated to HER who was both perfect Virgin and perfect Mother. As a Notre Dame man he bears her name; he is credited by the world with being one of her sons. The Church brought womanhood out of the lust and cruelty of paganism exemplified both in Rome and in the barbaric invaders of Europe, and she did it by placing the Virgin-Mother of God on a pedestal. Chivalry de­veloped from devotion to the Mother of God. Protestantism destroyed first the devotion to Mary, and then chivalry, and the neo-paganism that has succeeded old-fashioned Protes­tantism is bringing back the lust and cruelty to women that marked Rome's Golden Age. 
A woman should always be safe in the hands of a Notre Dame man, or he should drop the name of God's 
mother. Bishop Smith, of Nashville, 
in the masterful Pastoral Letter on 
Marriage which he addressed to his 
diocese in Lent of 1930, lays down the 
true principles of chivalry, and they 
should be held sacred by all Notre 
Dame men. He says: 
"Finally, there is the argument of 

chivalry, given out by the husband 
when he attempts to justify his sin­
ful conduct by his love for his wife, 
her well-being, her safety, her ease, 
and her health. These are sentiments 
worthy of a knight for his lady love; 
but even with these noble sentiments 
there can be no justification for the 
violation of nature's law. If it is 
only a question of ease, and comfort, 
and well-being, then let husbands 
and wives remember the words of St. 
Paul: 'She shall be saved through 
child-bearing, if she continue in 
faith, and love, and sanctification, 
with sobriety.'—I Timothy, 2 :15. 
"But even if there is real physical danger, and the husband is honest in his role of saviour of his wife, there is a way for him to prove himself the real knight. To be worthy of his name, the knight of old was prepared to make sacrifice for his lady. So must the husband be, if he wishes to assume this role. Self-sacrifice, self­control—these are the only means by which he can prove himself the wor­thy knight. No man can spare Ms %vife by the violation of nature's law. Nature is a stem taskmaster, and always takes its toll when vio­lated. The choice lies solely between continency — self-control—and pater­nity." 
If any alumnus complains of this doctrine as too hard, he has missed the spirit of Notre Dame. Sacrifice is the mark of the follower of Christ who must take up his cross daily to follow Him; chivalrous sacrifice is the mark of the Christian gentleman who. claims Our Lady as his patron­ess. The grace of God is essential, of course, to the power of sacrifice: its most abundant source is daily Communion. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS December, 19J1 
• • • >tt^m j
SUCCESSFUL FOOTBALL 

^^ 
SEASON 
(Continued from VaKc S:!) 

brilliant play during the last quarter. 
The Trojans threatened in the first quarter when three penalties helped them to three first downs, which placed them on the three-yard line where Joe Kurth recovered a Trojan fumble. Notre Dame scored after Steve Banas' beautiful run in the second period. The Irish again scored, this time too easily, on four plays at the beginning of the third quarter. 
Notre Dame began to weaken late in this period, but with only 15 min­utes to go, it looked as though the lead was safe. Kurth, Hoffman, and Krause, all badly battered, all hav­ing turned in splendid games, were benched. Too much discussed rulings helped the Trojans on their two touchdown marches and then two well-executed tosses left the ball in position for Johnny Baker to kick over the deciding three points from. placement. 
Had Hoffman not gone into the game with a bad knee, had Mike Koken not been lost for the season and been able to relieve Schwartz, had Marchy not have been so tired on his last two punts that he kicked directly to Mohler instead of away from him, had Melinkovich not been lost through injuries, had little Bill Pierce been available at right guard to relieve Hoffman, had Kurth been inthe lineup to block Baker's kick as he did an earlier attempted conver­sion, had Southern California scored before Notre Dame so that the Irish would not have let down, had the Irish band been able to muster its forces in that last quarter and stem 
4^:"'-\- :%'''v 

• • , s-H 
/">v-—, ^tbsB. 
4 " n 

. T-"^ "" ''•*-2'--'
^^ i 5'^<*-^ 
K ' -** - V* -^


\^^K f£ Mi 
• f 
e^ ft 



' ^^^m 

,^^M 
J^ 
.4 
^ 

Ix Ayv AROUND THE PRESIDENT'S BOX 
Incbidhiff Fathers Cavauaugh and O'Donnell, and Messrs. Erskinc aiid Cermak 
the Trojan advance, had Notre to lose.' And so, no regrets, no alibis. Dame's pass defense been as alert at All credit to the Trojans!" the end of the game as it was at the beginning — and you probably have 
some of your Army, 12; Notre Dame, 0. 
 own to add to this list —^Notre Dame easily could have won. 
Here is where the strain of a man-killing schedule showed. Here is But in defeat, Notre Dame lost no where was demonstrated that a com­prestige. Chick Meehan said " 'Hunk' paratively can 
Anderson missed by 60 seconds being  inferior team rise to 
the heights and, in the words of the coach of the year." Arch Ward, Damon Runyon, "be the greatest team sports editor of the Chicago Tribune in the country." 
and a Notre Dame graduate said, "Of 
the 750,000 words filed from Notre Notre Dame, with the strain Dame's press box, none carried more broken of going out week after week freight than these: 'Notre Dame to carry on the record of its two showed that it had not forgotten how 
predecessors, lacked the spark it took to get its offense under way. This was apparent at the start, but in­creasingly so in later stages of the 'WMiI y--^h> game. Also evident throughout the contest was the fact that every play, every move counted with the Cadets. When they had the ball, every play was aimed for a touchdown. When they were on defense, they stopped 
^1m
every concerted running attack \vith brilliant, vicious, headlong tackles and every pass attempt by rushing the pas.ser and covering the receiver in nearly all instances. 
It was another case of the tradi­tional game in which the dope bucket > V -.^ r 
was knocked for a row of loops, and a team that was six touchdowns bet­ter on paper was defeated by two touchdowns. 
As we have said, there are no more honored nor respected foes on the 
THAT Su^•KIST DRIVE 
Notre Dame schedule than Southern 
Juskwhich Stopped After a Z8-yard Punt Return California with its own Howard 
Jones, and Array vdth its great feel­ing of comradeship between the Ca­dets and the Notre Dame students. Notre Dame is glad that in fulfilling "Hunk" Anderson's prediction that the Irish would "drop a couple of 
TOMMY YARR, Captain 

I'layintj a hanth»i> iioiiic at center that ha^ brought him All-Aiitcriran rceotmition in hia lout year, Tom Yarr iran a captain worthy of the great team he led. Feu: playa iccnt throitith the ciilter of the Notre Dame tine. 
 games," that these two should he the  victors. 
JLUJCH.MONT SCHWARTZ 

Playing his last jKar, Schicartz icas the out­standing back of the season and as this goes to press has already aitpeared on several All-Amcrican selections. Schwartz was the key­note of the lOSl team. 
And Notre Dame will be back for a fresh start next year. 
(Ed. Note: Mr. Petritz will con­tribute a feature article on the in­dividual players of the season to the January ALUMNUS.) 
JOE KURTH, Tackle 

Joe is a great consolation to the fans for the next season. With another year to play, Joe tore up opposing plays for .-ill-.-lmerican recog­nition and defended his position against un­nsually talented onslaught. 
Notre Dame Starts One oF Its Hardest Basketball Seasons 
With his five 1930-31 regulars back. Coach George E. Keogan will launch Notre Dame's hardest basket­ball season next Friday, Dec. 4, with the iirst of two warm-up games. Kalamazoo college will play here. Adrian will play here Dec. 8, and then Notre . Dame will plunge into the "tough part" of its season. 
The Irish will play Indiana, Pur­due, Northwestern, and Iowa, four of the strongest teams in the Western Conference at Notre Dame's gym­nasium. Army, Pittsburgh, Pennsyl­vania, and Syracuse, top-notchers in Eastern circles, add to the brilliant home card Keogan has lined up. 
Home and home games with Mich­igan State, Marquette, and Butler, and return games with Northwestern and Pitt are on the card. Other games are with Western Reser\-e at Cleveland and with St. Thomas of St. Paul at Notre Dame. 
Keogan's combination, playin g most of these teams last year, won 12 and lost eight games. Three de­feats, two by Pittsburgh and one by Syracuse, were in the overtime. The team lost to Northwestern, 20-17, after leading the Wildcats until the last four minutes of the game when Joe Reiif, sophomore center started to click at Patten gym, Evanston. Had Keogan been able to pull these games out of the fire, the season's record would have been 16 wins and four losses. 
This year, he will have reseri'e strength which should pull the team through the close contests. Besides last season's varsity, he has all but two of his reserves and the best crop of sophomore talent in history around which to build his team. He may even go so far as to use the football system and send in the "shock troops" at the beginning and end. 
Following is the complete schedule and the 1930-31 results: 
1931-32 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE Dec. 4—Kalamazoo at N. D. Dec. 8—Adrian at N. D. Dec. 12—Indiana at N. D. Dec 13—Purdue .it N. D. Dec. 21—Northwestern at N. D. Dec. 31—^Northwestern at Evanston. Jan. 5—St. Thomas (St. Paul) at N. D. Jan. 9—Michigan State at East Lansinjr. .Tan. 12—Mar(|Uette at N. D. 
Jan. 16—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia. Jan. 23—PittsburEh at N. D. 
Feb. 1—Iowa at N. D. Feb. 6—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh. Feb. 10—Syracuse at N. D. Feb. 13—Western Reserve at Cleveland. Feb. 19—Butler at Indianapolis. Feb. 23—Michigan State at N. D. Feb. 27—Army at N. D. Mar. 4—Marquette at Milwaukee. 
Mar. 11—Butler at N. D. 
1030-31 BASKETB.^LL RESULTS 

Notre Dame, 36: Kalamazoo. 15. 
Northwestern. 44 : Notre Dame. 29. Purdue. 34 : Notre Dame. 22. Notre Dame. 31 : Pennsylvania. 19. Notre Dame, 24 : Illinois Wesleyan. 17. Northwestern. 20; Notre Dame. 17. Notre D.ime. 27: Ohio State. 24, , Notre Dame. 29: Wabash, 19. Notre Dame, 30: Marquette, 23. Notre Dame. 21 : Pennsylvania, 20, Pittsburgh, 28: Notre Dame, 20 (overtime). Notre Dame, 25; Indiana. 20. Pittsburgh, 35 : Notre Dame, 32 (overtime). Notre Dame, 18: Wabash, 17. Notre Dame, 27: Butler, 19. Notre Dame. 26; Army, 25. Syracuse, 28; Notre Dame, 23 (overtime). Notre Dame, 26: Marquette, 25. Butler, 20; Notre Dame, 17. 
Twelve victories, eight losses. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS December, 19J1 
B".. .•Q 
B" 
BAY CITY 

A letter from William S. Wilkins, '95, of Bay City, Michigan concern­ing the moving picture, "The Spirit of Notre Dame," fills the Editor's heart with hope. Mr. Wilkins says, in part: "The Spirit of Notre Dame" went over big in Bay City, starting at the midnight show Saturday eve­ning. Could hardly wait to see it Sunday. . . . We are to have a meet­ing here this evening and try to or­ganize a Bay City Club of Notre Dame. Will let you know later re­garding the same." 
The Alumni Office promises co­operation with the Bay City-Notre Dame men in the organization of an alumni club. 
BOSTON 

Metropolitan Boston officially opened the Rockne Memorial drive with a dinner on the evening of No­vember 4 at the Copley Plaza. The dinner and the speeches which fol­lowed were arranged by the Rockne memorial committee and the Notre Dame Club of Boston. About 300 guests attended the tribute to "Rock." 
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, for­mer president of Notre Dame, was a delightful and effective speaker. Gov­ernor Ely of Massachusetts and May­or Curley were speakers, the former at the start of the program, and the mayor at the end. Joseph A. Gart­land, Jr., president of the Club, was the presiding officer. He introduced the Rev. Cornelius J. Donovan, chap­lain of the Club who gave the invoca­tion, and then introduced Charles D. Maginnis, as toastmaster. 
Adam Walsh, line coach at Yale and captain of the 1924 Four Horse­men football team, who was to have appeared on the program was unable to be present on account of illness. 
.A.t ten o'clock Toastmaster Magin­nis called for the guests to stand :?or a minute of silent tribute to Rockne. 
Coaches of all the college elevens in the East were present, as well as most of the schoolboy gridiron tu­tors. The complete list of guests listed on the program included names of many prominent sportsmen who had gathered to pay tribute to the memory of one of the gi-eatest. 


ALUMNI CLUBS 
II I iiiiit 
CHICAGO HOUSTON 
The Chicago Club has apparently Notre Dame men, Houston football moved its headquarters to Notre coaches and other admirers of the late Coach Knute K. Rockne gathered 
Dame during the football season. 
at the Lamar Hotel Wednesday night Special trains carry the football en­
November 4, at a dinner to honor his thusiasts to and from the campus in memory and discuss plans for the two hours, plus a few minutes. This field house to be erected on the cam­
pus as a tribute to "Rock." George probably accounts for the lack of ma­W. Burkitt, president of the Club, terial on the Chicago Club for this 
was among the speakers. i.ssue. 
Following the dinner a meeting of Eddie Gould, assisted by Dick Hal-the Club was held and officers for pin, is running the usual Notre Dame the coming year were elected. They are: M. E, Walter, '14, President; E. 
special train to New York for the Conroy Scoggins, '24, Vice-President; Army game. The train is an all ex­T. F. Green, Jr., '27, Secretary­
pense special via the New York Cen­Treasurer. 
tral lines. It leaves Chicago Friday .A.mong the members present were: morning and arrives in the Big Town 
Charles S.-Atchison; George W. Burk­Saturday morning; leaves New York itt, Jr.; Charles R. Goslin; Thomas F. 
10:30 Sunday morning and has the Green, Jr.; Joseph J. Kane; T. G. McHale; John Niemiec; Lawrence 
passengers back in Chicago in time O'Leary; J. Nat Powers; John A. Po-to get to the office at nine bells on 
lisky; R. C. Scoggins; M. E. Walter; Monday. And an Army ticket is in­H. G. Spiller. 
cluded to each and every passenger 
The new Secretary after contribut­on the train. With this as an incen­ing the above interesting information tive, we expect Eddie and Dick to do adds the news that Christie Flana­
gan, '28, was down over the week­a rushing business. 
end from the Naval Academy to CLEVELAND scout S. M. U. We are looking forward to a big 
A letter from George Kerier, Sec­year in Houston! 

retary of the Club, announces that five of the Club members are candi­
dates for public offices in Cleveland. ICANSAS CITY The candidates are: Judge Joseph F. 
Al Boehm writes from the Missouri Smith for Municipal Judge; John L. 

Athletic Club with some interesting Weisend for Municipal Judge; Dan F. 
dope on some of the fellows in the Sammon for Council, First District; Kansas City territory. He is work­Charles J. Wolfram for Council, First ing on Diesel and gas engines. Says District, and Dan Duffy for Council, he will affiliate himself with the Fourth District. It looks as though Kansas City Club soon. Al was for­Cleveland can't help but go Notre merly from Buffalo. Hope the alum­Dame. More power! 
ni in Kansas City will make him feel A second letter from the Secretary at home. announces a meeting of the Rockne 
Al's letter appears in full in the Memorial which was held Monday, 1924 Class Notes. 

November 23 in conjunction with the 
regular luncheon in "The Subway" 
at Fischer-Rohr's restaurant, 1792 E. 
LOS ANGELES 9th St. According to the announce­
Alumni notes from PACIFIC ment Father Moriarty of Wooster CO-A.ST HEADQU.A.RTERS: 

was to be present. Ed McHugh of 
Cincinnati, State Chairman of the This also initiates a column (see 
Rockne Memorial Fund was sched­ALUMNU S of October 193.1) of 
uled to speak. Alumni news. This column will be 
distinguished from the periodic prose 
The Secretary wants to remind the boys that luncheons are held every 
of our Northern branch (viz.—^Ech­Monday and Saturdays in "Tlie Sub­
oes From The Golden Gate) in that 
way." And on other days, too, there it will be concerned only with events are always some of the gang gath­instead of gilded intentions. ered at 1792 E. 9th St., for lunch at THE CLUB: recently sponsored a 
12:30 P. M. Alumni are always wel-swimming party and dinner dance at the Deauxville Beach Club, attended by sixty couples, •with a prominent quartet rendering Notre Dame songs; a barbecue at O'Dalaigh Fardoch, the country house of Joe A. ('"Whata­man") Daley, '28, with grilled steaks, a la Erin, and nectar, a la Heidelberg with Bemie Abrott, '28, and Ed Cun­ningham ("The Eat,) '28, pouring at­tended by the Four Horsemen, Adam Walsh, Carideo and Bucky O'Connor et al; attended a dinner at Universal studio followed by a special preview of "The Spirit of Notre Dame" foot­ball shorts featuring Hunk Anderson and the squad; met at the University Club for uncheon and radio reception of the Northwestem-Notre Dame re­gatta at Quagmire Field, Chicago; underwrote and sold a block of 5,000 tickets to the local showing of "The Spirit of Notre Dame", receiving a percentage of the receipts for the benefit of our recently established Rockne Memorial Scholarship Fund; will hold a banquet November 4th in­augurating our local campaign for funds for the Rockne Memorial Feild House fund, with Father Charles L. 0'DonnelI,Joseph Scott,Howard Jones and prominent western journalists as guests of honor, Henry Dockweiler, Division Chairman in the National Organization, acting as Master of Ceremonies; assisted officials of the University of Southern California jn the collection of public contributions to the Memorial Fund at St.Mary's -Trojan game. 
NAMES MAKE NEWS. We see by the papers that: Charles Kennedy, '29, is the father of a 1931 model boy, now being groomed for quarterback and president; Doug (Whataboy) Daley, '30, and Barbara Cocke, of Los Angeles, have decided that two can live as cheaply as one; that Larry Moore, '29, promises to assume con­trol of the cinematic situation at Fox Studios; that Tom Lieb's Loyola Lions are making a name for them­selves, having secured a date on 
U. S. C.'s 1932 schedule; that Frank Barry has been honored by a civic appointment from Governor Rolph; that Dr. Al Anton, '27, has been placed on the stalT a the local county hospital. 
WE WONDER: Whom our north-em branch hired to w^rite their recent column in the ALUMNUS? It was fair. Some of our local talent must have been fog-bound at the Golden Gate. . . . What will happen to the Golden Gate if the country goes on a silver standard ? . . . How the mem­bers of our northern subsidiary have managed this long to elude the Coro­ner? Merely another case of civic inefficiency. We see they are "out for blood." We would prescribe for­maldehyde. . . . If de boys from New Yoik still believe that civilization ceases at the AUeghenies? And who­ever heard of Oregon University ? . . . What the Windy City boys will do now that their leading citizen has relinquished his Chicago residence? Poor "Snorky." Who -ivill be the host of the Gold Coast now? .. . If Car­negie's Conquerors returned to the campus clean from Pittsboig? . . . How our bean-eating cousins from the Tub of Cultyuh (Oh deah!) man­aged to smuggle out such a lengthy report about one meeting—despite censorship ? We suspect that eminent triumvirate, — McGauley, Brown & Cinedella. . . . Why, all these years, song writers have overlooked Indiana Mud? 
Yas suh! We wuzza goin to con­siduh our brethem in the South but as yo all knows, they caint read down thet way ennyhow. 
WE PREDICT: a Notre Dame victory over Southern California's Trojans; that this column will not prove as insipid as the custoraarj" alumni club notes; and that (if mail is still delivered on the Atlantic Sea­board) our soliloquies will provoke our friends, the Bean-eaters, the Smoke-breathers, the Cotton-pickers, and last and also least de boys on de sidewalks of New Yoik. 
WE SUSPECT: that the mem­bers of our Northern branch will .at­tempt to retort to this diatribe; that their response, although well-meant, will be exceedingly dull; that some day all of Northern California will slowly and quietly slide into oblivion in the Pacific Ocean; and that no one will complain—except the fish. 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 

P. E. Burke, President of the Club and also chairman of the Executive Committee of the Kockne Memorial Association of New Orleans, sends in some splendid literature which the Committee prepared for distribution to the Parochial schools and colleges in New Orleans and vicinity. The committee is attempting to have the school children contribute their mite to the Rockne Fund, in the name of their school. Mr. Burke is being aided by his son, Bolan, and Cyp Sporl, Jr., alumni members of a very active Executive Committee. 
MILWAUKEE 

The following splendid letter from Ang Galdabini, who has charge of the Milwaukee Club Notes, is re­printed with pleasure. Any members of the Club who wishes to contribute some Notes for the column can call or write Ang at 1521 W. Kilboum Ave., Milwaukee, before the 20th of each month, when copy is due in this office. 
Dear Jim: 
I noticed that the Milwaukee Club didn't rate any space in your last is­sue, and because I mentioned the sub­ject to Bill Redden I was handed the job of keeping you informed as to our doings. Here goes— 
The most important thing on our minds at present is the ROCKNE MEMORIAL. On the night of Octo­ber fourth under the guiding hands of Chet Freeze (1910), Dud Pearson (1919) and Freeman Fitzgerald (1916) the local unit presented a stag dinner at the Milwaukee Ath­letic Club. Sixty attended, thirty of which were guests. We just can't think of anything which might have started out this campaign with more of a bang than the results of the efforts of the above-mentioned gen­tlemen. 
Chet Freeze took charge but only after a delay due to the frenzied photographers who made quite a good deal of him in the following day's newspapers. Chet did very well, and we doubt if the much expe­rienced Dud Pearson, whom we are told was the favorite subject of the Arrow Collar advertisements, could have done better. 
Guests who were called upon to address the group were George Bruce, Roy Stone, Dr. Mehigan, Wil­liam Mc(3ovem and Coach Frank Murray (Marquette). Freeman Fitz­gerald, local district chairman for the drive, spoke about some of his expe­riences as a team mate of Rock's and Dud Pearson came in for his share by rendering a dramatic ver­sion of Rock between the halves of the 1928 Army game. 
All this sen'ed as a very splendid preliminary for one of the most elo­quent addresses Milwaukee has ever had the privilege of hearing. It was delivered by none other than our own Prof. Pat Manion. In speaking of Rockne, Pat Manion reached heights which held the group spell-bound. It was a very worthy tribute to the memory of the World's Greatest Coach, and a perfect climax for suc­cessful dinner meeting. We look for­ward to an opportunity of having Prof. Manion with us again. 
Freeman Fitzgerald's comittees are meeting regularly and everyone is working toward making Milwaukee's share of the campaign a success. 
Ang Galdabini. 

Bill Redden adds to the column by a few gleanings: 
"Charles O'Neil, '29-30, is with the St. Vincent de Paul Society here, 607 Walnut St. 
"Edward J. Redmond, '30, formerly of Kalamazoo, is a chemist with 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS December, 1$S1 
Paper Makers Chemical Co., 522S 
Hopkins Road. 
"William Curley, '14-17, is make­

up editor of the Wisconsin News. 
"Gerald de Clerq, '28, has been 

transferred to the South Side Branch, 
Standard Brands, Chicago. 
"Collins FoUett, '28, formerly with 

Halsey Stewart Company here, is 
now with the Chicago office." 
The monthly luncheons continue to 

be a bright spot in the Club calendar. 
The October luncheon, held at the 
Antler's Hotel, Milwaukee, boasted 
Tom (Red) Hearden, '27, formerly of 
Green Bay; present coach and physi­
cal director at St. Catherine's High 
School, Racine, as guest speaker. 
John Madden (Dodge and Plymouth 
Auto Sales) furnished the attendance 
prize. 
NEW YORK 

New York alumni who were privi­leged to see the football classic here on the 21st have gone back to the Metropolis to help the city blades get things shined up for the Army game. After the great show put on at Notre Dame. . . . even Mayor Walker was here on time. . . . the boys ^rill have to keep on their toes to provide enough thrills. We will print the story of the game, dinner dance at the Pennsylvania, dope on the Mc-Alpin, et cetera in the next issue of the magazine. 
New York alumni spared nothing to make the Rockne Memorial Dinner on the evening of November 4 a suc­cess. At the McAlpin, Hugh O'Don­nell, chairman for New York of the Rockne Memorial Association, pre­sided. He opened the half-hour pro­gram over the radio by reading a message from President Hoover which had been forwarded bv the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C. president of Notre Dame, who, be­cause of illness, was-unable to be in the East for the ceremony. Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C, former pres­ident of Notre Dame, attended the dinner, and delivered an excellent address. 
Eddie Dowling of musical comedy fame, was present. (And, by the way, did you know that Eddie has a son at Notre Dame?). 
The group at the McAlpin sat in­tently as station by station was flashed on and off the air, then broke into prolonged applause as JIayor Walker brought the program to a conclusion by saying: "This is an op­portunity for the cosmopolitan spirit of New York to respond to the spirit of Notre Dame. New York," the Mayor added, "asks only for an op­portunity to give a sincere and honest contribution to this splendid effort, and it is my pleasure tonight to make publi c acknowledgment of Ne w York's appreciation of the spirit of Notre Dame." 
Watts Eicher, one of our ambas­sadors in the East, sent in one of his customarj- letters, brimming with choice tidbits concerning the boys in and around New York. He and Jim­my Stack, now DOCTOR Jimmy Stack, were present at the Memorial Dinner and reported everj-thing to their liking. 
TOLEDO 

Ray Tillman, Secretary of the To­ledo Club, sent in some dope on the Club's activities during the past month. These activities, as in all the other Clubs, consist in concentra­tion on the Rockne Memorial Drive. Alumni and friends of Notre Dame are joining in making this the suc­cess it should and must be. With this in mind the Toledo Club did not hold a regular meeting in November. (Of course, another reason might be the fact that John Hurley, President of the Club, spends a lot of time out of town these days and finds it al­most impossible to call a meeting. The fiancee lives in Cleveland.) 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 

Ever since Morrie Starrett, Port To\vnsend rambler, arrived at Notre Dame to see the Southern California and perhaps the Army game, and cast "the shadow before" by predict­ing that Southern Cal would play an inspired game, we have been looking for him to find out what will happen at the Army battle a few days hence. Maybe Morrie has hibernated, and maybe he has gone to New York or back to Port Townsend. 
This is the first year that Morrie has not spent the entire, or most of the Season anj'way, at Notre Dame. Morrie is Chairman in charge of Con­tacts for the Rockne Memorial, and as such is certainly covering a lot of territory. 
Brother Ephrem Gets Post 

Brother Ephrem, C.S.C, has been recently appointed treasurer of the University. For the past three years he has acted as president of Holy Cross college. New Orleans, 
The new treasurer has served many years in an executive capacity. Pre­vious to his position in New Orleans, Brother Ephrem was the first prin­cipal of Reitz Memorial High school in Evansville, Indiana. For a number of years he was principal of Cathe­dral High school in Indianapolis, one of the largest Catholic secondary schools in the Middle West. In all, the new treasurer, who has A.. B. and 
A. M. degrees from Notre Dame, has spent twenty successful years of teaching. 
He succeeded Brother Florence, 

C.S.C. who has again taken up teaching.. 
Second Fiddle, a" short novel of modem American life with a musical theme and setting, has just been run serially in the Ave ilaria, the product of the versatile pen of Prof. Charles Phillips of the College of Arts and Letters. Rivalry in music and in love between two artists gives not only an interesting story, but a story in which the wide experiences of Prof. Phillips, his artistic appreciation, and his poe­tic expression, are finding a happy medium. He has also published two other novels, a book on Poland highly praised, a volume of poems, and a number of articles, plays, and miscel­laneous literary productions. The story began in the September 19 issue of the Ave Maria, and ended in the October 24 issue. 
Physics Laboratoni Manual is a contribution to that particular field by Prof. Eugene D. O'Connell, professor of physics at Notre Dame. The Man­ual presents a number of features designed to promote the work in which Prof. O'Connell is engaged to more advantage than other similar works, and contains the benefits de­rived from a number of years of teaching. Modern developments in the field have been incorporated. 
Neeson, '03. Heads A.S.M.E. 
John H. Neeson, '03, chief of Phil­adelphia's Bureau of Engineering and Surveys, was elected president of the American Society of Municipal En­gineers at their national convention in Pittsburgh on October 21. 
Mr. Neeson is a past president of the Alumni Association, 1923-4, and has always been an active and a staunch alumnus in the Philadelphia area. 
His work in the field of municipal engineering has been outstanding and a recently proposed reclamation plan for some of the poverty-ridden sec­tions of Philadelphia has attracted nation-wide attention in the field of civic planning. 
Mayor Mackey of Philadelphia sent the following telegram, indicative of the City's regard for Mr. Neeson, to the Municipal Engineers in conven­tion: 
"We rejoice in the honor you have paid him and we feel that the Ameri­can Society of Municipal Engineers has acted wisely in electing as their head a faithful public servant whose record of achievements in this city will stand as a monument for years to com^ of his industry and foresight and efficiency." 
Q.. lilllitiailllllll*lltll(t4(l<II(llllt((tllMlllttlllMtttllttll»1lll»ltHtlt«tlI»)ttttit1t1»tlttlttMtltttitttttltMt»lltHlt»ttMM»Ht*tttt»MMMMt|S 

^THE ALUMNI 
Q,. 
Deaths 
-<• 

The ALUMNUS extends the sym­pathy of the Association to Professor GEORGE EOHRBACH, '25, JOHN M., '23, EDWIN EOHRBACH, '31, and to ROBERT, a student at Notre Dame, on the death of their father. AVe also extend sympathy to RAY CONNORS, '31, who lost his father during the Summer. 
WALTER GEORGE ROSENER, '31, South Bend, an honor student last year at Notre Dame, and a stu­dent in the graduate school this year, working on his master of arts de­gree, died November IS in his home after a four days' illness. 
Mr. Rosener was graduated from Concordia college in Fort WajTie in 1922, and from Vincennes university in 1926. In 1926 and 1927 he studied law at Indiana university and was graduated from Notre Dame in 1931. 
Besides his wife, Lenior Smith Rosener, he is suri-ived by two chil­dren, William and Gretchen, two brothers, Albert and Herbert and one sister, Mrs. Ray Schoukwiler. 
Burial was in St. Peter's Lutheran cemetery, Vincennes, Indiana, on Sat­urday, Nov. 21. 
I Births I 
•> .J A note from RIGNEY SACKLEY, '17, says: "Just a few words to in­form you that we were blessed on October 29 with an 8% pound boy, since christened William Edward. We now have two prospective N. D. foot­
ball candidates, as well as two future St. Mary's pupils." 
"Uncle" John Whitman was the re­cipient of the following telegram: "You are uncle again. This time to a boy.' ' The message was signed bv JOHN W. HILLENBR-A.ND, '25. 
According to a message received from the Notre Dame Club of the Capital District, a baby girl, Laureen, was born October 5, to brighten the home of, and keep awake the Secre­taiY of the Club, WARD LEAHY, '2G. 
EDWARD L. RYAN,.'27, promises "Rig" Sackley's offspring keen com­petition in Notre Dame's future foot­ball team by entering the name of John Paul, bom July 17. Ed says that young John will be a future prospect from the team. 
And then from Indianapolis comes the word that ROBERT KIRBY, '29, is the papa of TWIN GIRLS! (We thought the Class of '25 had a comer on twins in Indiana's capital.) The Misses Kirby arrived the latter part of October. 
Barbara Anne arrived November 12 to occupy the spare time and at­tention of Mr. and Mrs. DONALD NORTON ('30). Mrs. Norton was Miss Berenice Kintz of South Bend. The Nortons are now living in Wes­le\-\'ille, Pa. 
Engagements 
i 

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin J. Landy, Chicago, announce the engagement of their daughter, Edith June, to SEY­MOUR WEISBERGER, '26. 
Miss Landy attended the University of Texas, Austin, Texas, the Starrett School for Girls, in Chicago, and graduated from the Academy of Our Lady, Beverly Hills, 111. 
Mr. Weisberger was graduated from the schools of Arts and Letters and Law at Notre Dame and is now^ deputy prosecutor in South Bend. 
Marriages 

Miss Alice Veronica of Chicago be­came the bride of PAUL JOSEPH PFOHL, '22, on Wednesday, the fourth of November, in the Log Chapel of Notre Dame. 
Following the ceremony a wedding breakfast was ser7sd in the Hotel La-Salle, after which Mr. and Mrs. PfoW left for a trip to New Ycrk. They will make their home at 8010 Phillips Ave., Chicago, after December 1. 
Mrs. Pfohl was graduated from St. Malay's Academy. 
Paul Fenlon gives us the dope that the Southern California week-end was to be part of a honeymoon trip for NAT POWERS, '24, and his bride. The wedding date, according to Paul, was set for the 18th of November in Houston, Texas. 
Invitations have been issued by Mr. and Mrs. Daniel H. Walker to the marriage of their daughter, Helen, to JAMES FRANCIS HAYES, '24, on Thursday, the 26th of November, at the Immaculate Conception Church, Lowell, Mass. 
A reception will follow the cere­mony. 
IIMIIIKtlllllllllllllllllltlllDllllllltllllllllUlltK'll ..Q 
Mr. and ilrs. Harold N. King have issued invitations to the marriage of their daughter, Nathalie, to Dr. HAR­VEY FRANCIS BROWN, '24, on Wednesday, the 25th of November, at eleven o'clock, at S. S. Peter and Paul Jesuit Church, Detroit, Mich. 
On Saturday, October 17, Miss Doi-othy M. Gaszner, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. Gaszner, of Chi­cago, became Mrs. VIRGIL P. FA­GAN, '25. Rev. John Cavanangh, C.S.C, performed the ceremony in the Log Chapel. 
Mr. and Mrs. James Carter Walsh announce the marriage of their daugh­ter, Kathryn, to GERALD VINCENT McDERMOTT, '26, on Saturday, the. 26th of September, at Notre Dame. 
Mrs. John Fogarty announces the marriage of her daughter, Mary Elizabeth, to JOHN JOSEPH MUR­PHY, ex-'31, on Saturday, October 3, in Springfield, 111. 
Word comes from out of the East that D.\N HALPIN, '31, e.K-student manager and man about the campus at Notre Dame, will sign a life con­tract on Saturday, November 28. The girl is Miss Margaret Hyland and the romance started in high school days, according to those who appar­ently know. 
A letter from CARL MEKUS, '24, Jewell, Ohio, announces the marriages of the Mekus brothers this last Sum­mer. Old Dan Cupid must have been on the job in Ohio. 
CARL MEKUS was married to Miss Virginia Coressel, Defiance, O., June 20. They spent their honey­moon at Atlantic City and are Living in Jewell. 
FRANCIS A. MEKUS, '25, was married to Miss Lilian Bronson, De­fiance, Ohio, July 30. Honeymooned in New York City and Washington, and are living at 648 Jefferson Ave., Defiance, Ohio. 
LOUIS M. MEKUS, student at N. 
D. in '25-'26, was married to Miss Lu­cille Nolan of Defiance on October 27. They spent their honeymoon in Chi­cago and South Bend and are living at Jewell. 
•
 Al Shippaeasse, '30, and Ed. Blatt, '30, of Cleveland, were down for the Pitt game and informed the office that they attended the wedding of their fellow, classmate an d townmate, Richard A. Bloom, '30, at Buffalo, 

N.
 Y., on June 20. Bloom was tied and sealed to Miss Viola Dnggan, of Buffalo. The couple have established residence in Sherrill, N. Y., where 


THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS December, 1931 
Mr. Bloom is working for the Wm. A. Rogers Silvenvare Co. Joe Butler and Jerry Eeidy, both of the '30 class, and Eon Zudeck, '31, watched the ceremonies from the sidelines. 
«  •:•  
{  Personals  |  
•  .:•  
1895  

Eustace Cullinan, Sr., 860 Phelan 
BIdg., San Francisco, Calif. 

ALBERT J. D A N N E M I L L E R, General Manager of the Dannemiller Coffee Co., New York, was a recent visitor on the campus. 
1898 
F. Henry Wurzer, 1632 Buhl BIdg, Detroit, Slich. 

WILLIAM F. MONTAVON has written a series of articles, "The Truth About Spain." This series has appeared in the Catholic papers, through the N. C. W. C. 
1899 Dr. Joseph F. Duane, 418 Jefferson Bldg., Peoria, Illinois. Dr. BERNARD S. MALOY com­bines with active practice the dis­tinction of having compiled and pub­lished notable work on Medical Juris­prudence as well as Fame as Biblio­phile. The Illinois Mcdiail Jouriitil s ays of Dr. Maloy's recent work, "Legal -Anatomy and Surgerj-,": "The book has enjoyed unprecedented popularity among the legal profession, and is still a best seller. The book was well worth the ten years expended in its process of making, and the concen­tration and thought and interpreta­tion of experience combined in its production. The text is easy and fluent in its stj'le and makes pleas­ant and instructive perusal even by the lay reader. For the professional man and savant it is a gold mine. "Not only did Dr. Maloy compose the text unaided but many of the beautiful illustrations which enrich the pages are his. This accomplished physician is a litterateur and skilled artist. His work in art compares favorably with that produced by other well known scientific and ana­tomical draftsmen. It is interesting to note in this connection that a great part of these drawings were accomplished with the aid of a mag­nifying glass while the finished prod­uct is as distinct and smooth as a steel engraving. Surely, there are not many doctors who can draw well enough to illustrate a book" 
1905 Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. La Salle St, Chicago, III. 
DON O'ICEEFE, President of the Detroit Club, stopped in the .Alumni Office the day of the Penn game with two other Notre Dame football fans. Dean Monahan of the Detroit Uni­versity Law School, and Mr. Sheehan, St. Marj»'s, (Kansas) grad. 
1908 
Frank X. Cull, Bulkley Bldg, Cleveland, Ohio 

George W. Sprenger; '08, Peoria, 111., picked a Sunday morning after the Pitt game to drop in on the chief. Unfortunately the chief was at home or at church and George found little doing. 
1912 
B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Rev. CHRISTOPHER BROOKS , 

C.S.C. has returned to India to re­sume his mission labors in the Diocese of Dacca, Bengal. Father Brooks, it will be recalled, was des­perately wounded in a battle with a Bengal tiger nearly two years ago, when he interfered to rescue an In­dian who was being attacked by the wild beast. Father Brooks' life was saved when Brother Bede, C.S.C. came upon the scene and shot the animal. Father Brooks has some ugly scars as mementoes of the battle, but has recovered his strength and has left for the missions again. 
1915 

James E. Sanford, 1033 South Lin­den Ave, Highland Park, HI. 
GEORGE N. SHUSTER has trans­lated from the German of Enrica V. Handel-Mazetti, "Jesse and Maria," an historical novel of the days of the Counter-Reformation. It is published by Henrj' Holt. 
1919 
Clarence Bader. 650 Pierce St., Gary, Ind. 

JAMES McNULTY of Detroit, Mich, visited Notre Dame recently. Jim is Fractional Horse Power Motor. Sales Engineer of the General Elec­tric Company. 
JOHN A. McINTYRE, a student in '19, recently sent in a request for a catalogue. John has a prospective student for N. D. in 1932. He is located at 305 Watt St., Jefferson-ville, Ind. 
1920 
Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black Bldg., Los -Angeles, Calif. 

MARCE VERBIEST, Detroit, says in a recent letter to the Secretary: 
"I have been away from the office on a trip East, and am leaving again in the middle of the week for points West, but you may rest assured that my 'team' for the Memorial Fund is functioning, and when returns .ire in, I am certain we will have made a representative showing." Marce prom­ised to be on deck wtih the rest of the Detroit contingent for the South-em Cal game. 
1922 
Gerald Ashe, 1024 Monroe Ave., 
Rochester, N. Y. 
Dear Jim: 
Here's s some terrible stuff for the 

1922 section of the ALUMNUS to be 
used only in case of necessity: 
I had a crazy dream last night. I dreamed that each member of the class wrote a letter this month tell­ing us of his whereabouts and his doings, but you know as well as I the old saying that dreams go by oppo— sites. Maybe the boys were so busy working on the Rockne Memorial drive that they could not find time to keep us informed of their affairs. 
Somebody told me that WALTER STUHLDREHER is the father of twins. Greetings and congratula­tions, Walter, if the report is true. 
ART VALLEZ is still in France. 

Last month, in mentioning the names of the '22 men whom we saw at the Northwestern game, we forgot to make mention of two comrades We were especially glad to see—R.ALPH CORYN and JIM McCABE. Both were somewhat disgusted with play­ing conditions in Chicago, and expect to try South Bend at the Southern Cal game. 
Contrary to general belief, no news in this department is not good news. All is much too quiet in the Kentucky sector. FRANK BLOEMER, EDDIE PFEIFFER, PHIL DANT, .ind PETE ECKERLE should have some nter­esting news to offer. You may fire when ready, gentlemen. 
PETE CHAMPION, JOHN P. (TUFFY) HART, and HARR Y HOFFMAN are doing their best to improve conditions in Cleveland. Pete is with the Champion Rivet Co; Tuffy is giving the Cleveland Builders Supply Co. a break; and Harry is connected with the Arco Company. 
HUNK ANDERSON is now known as the master line builder. Y''ours very truly, 
G. Ashe. 
1924 

James F. Hayes, Fifth Ave. Assn., Empire State BIdg, N. Y. City. 
By the time this magazine is in the hands of the eager and lucky public, the Secretary of the Class of '24 will have given up that single blessed­ness. (For details, see "Weddings," this issue. 
JIM SWIFT, from 'way down in Dallas, Texas, sends in some compli­ments on the ALUMNUS. . . . and O boy, do we like it; do we like it! He says: "I want to compliment you on your handling of the ALUMNUS and to tell you how much I enjoy each issue in spite of the dearth of news items issuing from Jim Hayes, Secretary of the Class of '24. On your next opportunity please tell Jim for me that his well kno^vn and just­ly famous nose for news is apparent­ly becoming blunted in the passage of time." Now that Jim will be a "home boy" he will probably find time to write up some notes for us. 
Classmates of LEO SUTLIFFE will be glad to hear that Leo is up and coming with the Missouri Port­land Cement Company, St. Louis, Mo. Leo is busy promoting the Uni­versity with prospective Notre Dame students in St. Louis. 
WALTER MORAN of Tulsa, Okla­homa sends in a long letter to ye Ed­itor. Walt is Vice-President of Cros­bie and Moran, Inc., manufacturers of Natural Gasoline. 
HUGH BLUNT is supposed to be back on the old sod some of these days, according to a letter received from him late in October. The Edi­tor is hoping he sees Hugh first, since he had to refuse Hugh's re­quest for Army tickets. We hereby warn Hugh that we will aim to kill. In these days of scarcity of football tickets one can't be too careful. 
JIM MEEHAN of New York and South Bend was among the first Eastern alumni to visit the Alumni office before the Southern Cal. game. 
BROTHER EPHREM, C.S.C. is now Treasurer of the University. He is experienced in executive work, having been successively principal of Memorial High School, Evans\-ille, Ind; of Cathedral High School, In­dianapolis, the largest Catholic sec­ondary school in the state; and President of Holy Cross College, New Orleans, La. 
Here is a fine letter from AL BOEHM: 
"Dear Jim: "Just finished reading the Novem­ber ALUMNUS and am speechless at the scope of the building program to date. Inasmuch as I have not had the opportunity of seeing the cam­pus since June 1924 the changes are quite startling. 
"Have been shifted from the old home town, Buffalo, to Kansas City in a shake-up in our organization that also changed BILL DALEY from Cincinnati to Pittsburgh with Worthington Pump and Machinery Corp. Am more or less of a specialist (not Chic Sale variety) on Diesel and Gas engines and in my travels have run across a few N. D. men. 
"Found that ROGE NOL.AN is a competitor 'of mine in this territory, but greatly enjoy working the same jobs. Roge is looking fine, albeit the hirsute adornments are not as abundant as of yore. Together, we called on VINCE HARRINGTON '25, at Sioux City. Vince is looking ex­ceptionally healthy and is apparently doing splendidly. Also called on LEN MURRiVY, '24, who is holding . forth in the Sioux City store of Ivresge and Company. He is married-and has a son. 
"Last week in St. Paul, I looked up MIICE SCHMITT, '24, who is making quite a reputation for himself as a lawyer. He is still looking them over, meaning he is unmarried. 
"Have not had a chance to affiliate with the K. C. Club but am attending to this shortly. 
"Believe the additions of the Reli­gious and Editorial pages to the .ALUMNUS round the magazine greatly. 
"Best of luck and success to all Notre Dame programs. Al Boehm." 
EPHREM L. CH.AUSSEE,E.E.'24, now of Detroit, was on the campus last week. "Chizzle" is representing a plumbing house in Detroit and was after a bid on equipment for the new-steam plant. 
EGBERT CURTIN, B.S. Chem. '24, was on the campus for the Penn game and called on several of his old friends including Prof. Froning and the Registrar. Egbert is the inventor of a solitaire bridge game which he is marketing with great success. Curtin has a brand of luck all his own, witness his war experience; he had his nose broken in a plane crash in France and then had it perfectly straightened during a bit of fistic re­partee in a Paris cafe. A younger brother, Andres, is in school now. 
MICH.AEL KEYES,'24, writes that he is just out of the hospital ha\-ing escaped with an operation for ap­pendicitis which he didn't have. Mike is good at escapes. A former staff member of the South Bend A'eii's-Times, he is now with the Fresno (California) Bee. 
1925 John W. Scallan, Pullman BIdg., 79 E. Adams St., Chicago, III. 
DAN O'NEIL, of the New York O'Neils, threatens to invade South Bend and environs for the Southern Cal game. At this writing, the day before the game, the Office is all aflutter over the prospects. The Edi­tor hopes to be spared the ordeal of listening to the O'Neil pun, but will turn him over to JERRY HOLLAND if he gets too tough. 
N. A. CL.ANCY is stationed in Grand Rapids, being in the business of managing a broadcasting station. Maybe you '2oers recognize his voice over the air. He says that he runs into quite a few of the N. D. gang. 
among them BOB DOEAN, '26, CHUCK GUmON, '26, RAY BON­INI, '27, and GEORGE LUDWIG, '25. 
Rumor has it that AL McLEAH BRULE is in the New York District Offices of the General Electric Com­pany. Al is married to a Syracuse co-ed and living in Yonkers. 
BILL HURLEY, Saginaw, Michi­gan finds time, in the midst of his Rockne Memorial activities, to drop a note to the Office with some news. Bill says: "As a wee bit of news, I had lunch with HERM CENTLIVRE, '25, PAUL DOOLEY, '25, and BILL McCULLOUGH, '27. Later spent the afternoon discussing the past, pres­ent and future with Herm. Ne^ess to say, we ironed things out satis­factorily. Also had lunch with AL SLAGGERT, '21, at the University Club." (And in these days of famine, too!) 
BROTHER ERNEST, C.S.C. Libra­rian of Cathedral High School, In­dianapolis, contributes to the current issue of Catholic School Interests a "Chat on Library Topics." 
1927 

Ed. DeClerq, 8126 Drexel Blvd., Chicago, ni. 
JOHN BRENNAN writes that he has been transferred from San An­tonio to St. Louis, Mo. John is with the American Blower Corporation, and can be reached at 1941 Railway Exchange Bldg., St. Louis. 
John J. Mead, Sr., publisher of the Erie Daily Times, father of GEORGE MEAD was recently made a Knight of St. Gregory by His Holiness. The Ivnighthood was sponsored by the Bt. Rev. John Mark Gannon, bishop of Erie. 
THE TRUTH ABOUT HERB JONES! The Alunmi Office has un­covered a "racket" being carried on by none other than Herbert E. Jones, head man in the ticket office in the athletic Department. Of course, we hate to e.xpose him. . . . especially since we managed to get good tickets for the game this year. . . . but when everyone at the University, well, al­most everyone anyway, gets hooked for thirty-five cents for a chance on a french doll or something, and MRS. HERBERT JONES wins the doll well, you might ask your classmate. Herb, just how he worked it. 
1928 Louis BucUey, Box 73, Notre Dame, Ind. 

Did you know that JAMES Mc-SHANE is at St. Stanislaus Semi­nary at Florissant, Mo., and has just completed his two years' novitiate on September 26 and took his vows. He now signs his name James L. Mc-Shane, S. J. 
Arthur D. Slavin, horticulturist for the Park Bureau, Rochester, N. Y. sailed on the S. S. Aquitania on Oct. 14 for an eight weeks' tour abroad. Mr. Slavin viill be one of the speak­ers at the Conifer Conference and Exhibition to be conducted in London under the sponsorship of the Eoyal Horticultural Society of England. 
The Conifer Conference opened on Oct. 27 and continued three days with several distinguished speakers. Mr. Slavin spoke on the closing day on "Cultivated Conifer of the United States." His paper included descrip­tion of 247 conifers- He gave the first cultural description of the Chi­nese spruce, introduced in this coun­try between the years 1910-14 by the late Dr. E. H. Wilson, former direc­tor of the .Arnold Arboretum at Har­vard. 
-A^fter the London conference, Mr. Slavin made a survey of some of the sections in England .ind Ireland where the propagation of rhododen­drons and azaleas is carried on ex­tensively. He will later continue this sur\-ey through Germany, Holland, Belgium and France. 
Selection of Mr. Slavin as a speak­er on the program of the London Conifer Conference is considered a distinct honor. He is the only speaker listed from this country. He was chosen because of the extensive study he has made of cultivated conifers in the United States. Mr. Slavin has been specializing in conifers for some time, and has made a survey of the large collections of cultivated coni­fers in the Central and Eastern States. Among some of the places he studied were the Arnold Arbore­tum at Harvard, the Boyce-Thomp­son Institute of Plant Research .-ind the private pinetum of Colonel Mont­gomery at Greenwich, Conn. 
He was graduated from the Uni­versity of Notre Dame with the Class of 1928. .A.t Notre Dame he special­ezed in botany and organic chemistry. 

The Southern California tragedy brought back a number of the '28 fellows. MIKE RICKS came up from LaFayette and RAY MULLIGAN came in from Chicago Friay night so we had an old Corby session between the three of us that night. Mike is practicing law in LaFayette. He finished at Georgetown last June. Mike told me that he roomed with BUD C.4LLAGY there last year. He reports that Bud is the same dis­penser of medicine at Georgetown that he was on third floor Corbv. VINCE WALSH and JIM ALLEN arrived Saturday. Vince is farming near Monticello, 111. and Jim is in Chicago. BERNIE ZIPPERER came in from Warren, Ohio where he is practicing law. JOE HILGER finished at Penn U. last June in Commerce and is located in Columbus, Indiana. Joe was on his way to New York to attend the Army game. FRANK DONOVAN who is still here in South Bend with the Bantum Ball Bearing, left after the game with his wife and family for the -Army game. He prom­ises to give me all the information on the New York gang for next issue. Other '28 men present were CYP SPORL who came up from the South and ALL.AN M.AH.AR from Bing­hamton, N. Y. 
The most startling news of the week-end concerned our cheer leader from Indianapolis. BOB KIRBY, I was informed, is the father of twins. Congratulations, Bob. I would like to hear if any of the other classmates have equalled Bob's record. 
Bishop Finnigan, '10, brought us the good news that BILL JONES has been very successful as head coach at St. Charles College in Helena, Mont. Bill's team won the State Championship this year for the first time in the history of the college. Again our congratulations, Bill. We expect to see you at Christmas time on your way to Detroit. 

The chain letters are lost, sorry to say. Will those who have them please send them on to me as they no doubt have some very valuable information for the column in them. If this col­umn is a blank next time, you will know that the letters have not been returned, so keep after those whom you passed the letter on to, so that our column will continue to be as long as it has been in the past. 
1929 
Joseph P. McNamara, 231 Wisconsin St., Indianapolis, Ind. 

The leader of bigger and better cheers is going to be just that. Yep, ROBERT EMMETT KIRBY has the Class' honors for ha\-ing the fiirst pair of twins. They're both future Saint Mary's girls. Incidentally BOB'S is the third set of twins in the Indianapolis Club ranks. PRAN K MCCARTHY. '25, and WALTER STUHLDREHER having led the way. 
Reports from Saint Paul, Minn., are to the effect that BOB FOG.AR­TY is knocking 'em for a row in gathering high marks in the study of the law. BOB is also one of the most popular instructors at Saint Thomas College, and one of the fellows that the Class Secretary is anxious to hear from. 
SHORTY NOWERY, who ate ne.xt to us in the Refectory, is going "great guns" down along the "border land." NO^\^RY has been travelling all over the Southwest from the way we gather it and has picked up a Master's Degree in the procedure. He is anxious to have more news from "God's country." 
Counsellor MATHEW J. CULLEN of Chicago has become quite a hyp­notist. That's the straight dope, gang, but we all wonder why. Inci­dentally, plenty of the law school gang seem to be anxious to hear from IV-AN LE BLANC and JERRY ROACH. 

FRANKLIN EUGENE DOAN cuts through with the following delight­fully Doanesque report of activities along the North Atlantic seaboard: "You probably noticed that ARM­STRONG has gone Republican. The October ALUMNUS stated that I had come back, looking as prosperous as ever. That's typical Republican the-depression-is-only-psychology stuff. I am still wearing the Jlax Adler 1926 tie; the blue serge shines more than a Fighting Irish halfback; and my O'SuUivans don't flush with the pavement anymore. -And stiil every inch a Democrat. 
"But here's the dope on the New York contingent who are prospering. I refer to those who are not weeping hooey with Hoover. WALTER HUGH L.AYNE and CONMEY have leased a 24-cube Electrolux with two rooms and bath thrown in for good measure —or maybe its protection. CONMEY says that Canada Dry and Cliquot Club are the only sure-fire securities nowadays. The slug, "HUGH LAYNE —Associate Editor" on the masthead of The Dance Magazine conveys the necessary news. 
McM-AHON, a publicity agent now that he has given up his place in The Sun, is teaming with GARBER at the Newman Club. CULLINEY goes to N. Y. U. law school four nights a week (and JOE GAYNOE is another '28 man doing the same thing); CULLINEY frequents 115th street the other three. Yea, she's a Barnard girl. A junior. No, not a blonde. 
"BOB BRENNAN, e.x-'27 Sorin and ex-cross country, is happily mar­ried and is one of the keystoners of the Wanamaker organization. He lives in Mount Vernon, Westchester County. Now there's a county for you, Joe! One of the best in soviet America, I should say." 
Saw FRED DAVIS one night last summer. Which reminds me that one is apt to run into "Space Hawk Mc-DEVITT almost any^vhere in the Grand Central District. Had a word with JOHNNY COLRICK who is back at Georgetown again this year. Saw BUS REDGATE, AL DIEBOLD and BILL STEITZ one night last spring, but they won't remember. I don't very well, myself. 
JOHNNY DOEGAN ''and LOU NIEZER were down to Lima during DOAN'S vacation and had a tiff for the casino championship of the world. 
DOEGAN won. NIEZER second. DOAN has been on the Five-Year-Plan ever since. I view with alarm DORGAN'S advances along the Saint Mary's frontier. The Standard Oil people probably don't mind, but St. JIary's may. 
Talked via telephone with BOB MANIX who passed the Ohio Bar and was about to pull a Darrow for a couple of mugs who also passed the Ohio Bar but turned back. MANIX has his name on a door now. HENRY FEY was a playground supervisor at a spot hardby 42nd Street and Third Avenue this summer. He's back at Fordham Law now. 
At Lima I talked to HENRY BAENHART, '23, who is sales man­ager of the Ohio Power Shovel Com­pany. 
While at school I saw Herald-Ex­aminer Scribe JACK ELDER, for­merly an executive in the touchdown industry; in Boston a few weeks ago I talked with CHAELEY COLTON; BILLY LOUGHRAN sat on the SLEEPY CROWLEY side of the field at the Michigan State-Army game a few weeks back; HANK BUKNS, the venerable paper box man from Buf­falo, was in New York on business— and you know what kind—last sum­mer. That fully accounts for the quartet that comprised Room 117, Freshman Hall in the fall of 1925. Each of the four stoutly denies that he punched the impromptu hole in the wall some years back, thereby making Rooms 117 and 118 practically the same. But Father ST-A.CK probably remembers that someone did it. 
BILL CRONIN'S five-months-old son is the strongest, wisest boy on Long Island. One-fourth of the back­field problem for 1951 is already solved. 
If a man bites a dog, that's news. GEORGE BYRNE was in Rochester again last week. That is not news. 
OLLIE SCHELL is playing the best tennis of his career. At least he was this summer past. 
BILL (Highe) DOYLE is one of the Notre Dame gang in New York who will die of shock if the Eastern Universities Club opens up. 
WILLARD WAGNER is with an insurance house here and lives in the Village. 
CLINTON FAILLE, quondam sec­retary to DOCTOR COONEY, is a publicity sleuth for an East 45th Street firm. HENRY OELBRICHT is still preaching to the world the value of McCall's, except at lunch time when he and DOAN buiy the hatchet and talk about backfields and whatever DOAN talks about. CHAR­LEY COULTON told me that JIM ROY is renouncing law for announc­ing. He's with a Boston i-adio station. 
JIM BRADY is still teaching the Hahvad backfield in the old "1-2-3." Which reminds me that, after the team has gone thi-ough again, the new title will be "The Hunk Back of Notre Dame." 
JOE HARTNETT is still with the Irving Trust Company at No. 1 the­street-that-went-to-the-Wall. JOHN­NY LAW is at the same address when Manhattan coaching duties do not claim his time. 
JOE LORDI played ball with the New York A. C. all summer. 
Do You Remember Wai/ Bach When: 
RALPH (Kraut) ZIJBIERMAN lived in No. 341 Walsh Hall and the Happy Hour Athletic Club—RED­GATE and BEANNON—kept the molecules moving in No. 339? Well ZIMMEEMAN is with the A-1 de­partment store in Stamford, Conn., now. And by A-1 I mean the one that really counts. 
LOU THOENTON sat in the back row of JOHN BEENNAN'S English Class? I saw THORNTON on the observation deck of the Empire State building the other day. It's a swell view, but you can't see the Dome. 
JOHN VINCENT HINKLE used to draw lots to see which girl he would take to the Prom? JOHN'S in the city room of O'DONNELL'S New York Times now. 
MURRAY YOUNG was Prospero Image of Scholastic fame? MURRAY' is teaching days, and seeing the shows at night. There are a lot of good shows on Broadway these days but I see them all under unfavorable condi­tions. The curtains are usually raised. 
ROY BAILIE will ran for the Bos­ton A. C. this winter. ROY likes to run, especially if it's in the direction of Portschester, New York. After see­ing soine of the football games in the East this fall, I'm convinced that the teams go into a befuddle before they start their plays. 
HUB SCHIMBERG, to whom Mr. FRANKLIN E. DOAN wrote on approximately June 25th, 1929, hasn't answered as yet. (Paid classified ad­vertisement.) 
WILLIAM FIDELIS CRAIG, who belongs to some class between '29 and '54, is the radio impressio of Evans­ville, Indiana. Freshman of the Class of '30 way back when you will recall that CRAIG sold them high boots for skiing and tobogganing which he rep­resented to be the leading Notre Dame sport activities. He also will be recalled by FATHER HUGH O'DON­NELL for many reasons. Lately he has written the book for a musical drama and was actually paid for so doing. 
JOHN ABIJAH DAVIS, golf-tour­ney promoter extraordinary, does the Coach Judge Steifin act for his famous brother, CHAELES (Ghost of Wash­ington Hall) DAVIS. JOHNNIE runs down to New York every-now­and-then to give CHARLEY the dope. IncidentaUy, CHAILEY DAVIS re­cently passed the cigars in honor of another acquisition. 
JOHN C. DOAEN is serving in the capacity of line coach at the Uni­versity of Omaha again this fall. JOHN has a thriving law practice and is located in the Omaha State Bank Building, Omaha, Nebraska. 
'Member AENOLD LEGEEWOOD (Cy) WILLIAMS of the Robin-Hood-Hat fame? -A.RNOLD is a professor and is working for a Ph. D. at North Carolina University.. His address is the Graduates Club, Chapel Hill, N. 
C. He has a full stock of new and radical theories that will be sent at the slightest provocation. 
Query: Does anyone know what's happened to PIERCE J. O'CONNOR? If not, how about news concerning BOB JORDAN? 
CLASS NOTICE All member's of the Class are in­vited and urged to contribute to the 
Do You Remember Way Back When 
department. All those submitting such material will receive season passes to all free events to be held in connec­tion with that June, 1934, reunion of ours. Let's hear from you! 
1930 

Bernard W. Conroy, 1038 Park Ave. New York City 
PAT MCLAUGHLIN says he is still pushing furniture around in Quincy, 111., and keeps in pretty good trim moring suites in and out of houses. Pat's father has the H. P. McLaughlin Company sign over the family door. When last seen, at the Penn game, Pat was looking great. He was scheduled to appear on the campus for the Southern Cal battle. Dear Jim: 
I have a few notes which I hope will be in time for the December is­sue of the ALUMNUS. 
TIM TWOMEY is working here with the Royal Indemnity Co., and doing fine. 
K.A.RL BRENNAN has a position in the accounting department of Paramount Pictures here. He lives in Brooklyn with Dennis Shanahan of the United Gas Company. 
The latest from Buffalo has iVL\R­TY TRAVERS working for the Ma­rine Trust Co. The Niagara Hudson Companv has secured the services of FRANK O'MARAH. JIM IRWIN is in business with his father in that city. The Buffalo Dredge & Drydock Co', has employed BOB MOORE as an engineer for their firm. 
DAN SULLIVAN is TOth Sharpe and Dohme, drug manufacturers in Philadelphia. 
DON SULLWAN is in the build­ing business, with his father in Northampton, Mass. The recent birth of a son has added to the happiness of Don. 
ED NEBEL. formerly of Detroit but now a Pittsburgher, also is a proud father. His wife is the former Sally McCaffery of St. Mary's. 
SKIP KENNELLY has taken a po­sition with the Goodyear Rubber Co. in Akron, Ohio. 
TOM PROST is reported to have a job with a tractor company in Iowa, while GIL KIRWIN has connected with a lumber company somewhere in the South. 
A letter from RON SULLIVAN of Portland, Oregon brought the news that Ron is in the life insurance business with the Northwestern Mu­tual Insurance Co. 
WARREN FOGEL is studying law at Fordham night school and working in the legal department of the Lon­don Guaranty & Accident Co. Ltd. 
TOM CUNNINGHAM is also try­ing night school and day work. He has a position with the New York Title and Mortgage Co., and studies law at St., John's in Brooklyn. 
I would like to be on the campus for the game with Southern Cal, but instead I'll have to be content with the radio report of the big battle. The New Yorkers are all gathering 

. at the Pennsylvania hotel to listen in together. The club has also made some big plans for the Army game week-end. I hope these few lines will be of some use to you. Sincerely yours, Bemie Conroy, '30. 
1931 John E. Boland, 1402 Linden ot. Scranton, Pa. Dear Jim: I picked up a few more notes this month which might be of interest to the class. I had a verj- informative letter from JIM DOY^LE, who is con­nected with his uncle in the broker­age business in Chicago. He informed me that PAUL DUNCAN and PHIL ANGSTEN were taking graduate courses at Northwestern, while FRANK HENNEBERGER is selling refrigerators, both in Mount Carmel, 
m. and Evansville, Ind. Jim gave me a reason why Frank was inter­ested in the sales territory around Evansville, but it is a secret which I will have to withhold from the class for a while. Jim also wrote that "RED" WELLS has completely recu­perated from the illness which over­took him at the end of the last school year, and is now working for the Consumers Ice Co. in Paducah, Kv. JERRY DESMOND is selling insur­ance in Chicago. 'The same for TOM MONAHAN, who is rooming with MIKE TEDERS. Mike is connected with Marshall Field & Co. I under­
stand that BOB GORE is doing very 
well in his agricultural pursuits. 
I also had a letter from BUD 
GOLDEN, who is working for the 
General Electric Co. in Butte, Mont. 
BUD GIES is also working in Butte 
for the Natural Gas Co. BEN GAN­
NON is physical director at the K. C. 
clubhouse there. These boys all ral­
lied around BILL JONES' Mount 
St. Charles team when it won the 
state championship of Montana. 
GORDIE SALMON tells me that BILL CLEARY is going to school up at St. Thomas in Minneapolis, where he keeps JOE SCHROEDER com­pany. Joe is in the oil business with his father. By the way, Joe, ED SHEAN thinks it's about time that you wrote him a letter. 
CLARK BENKENDORF is attend­ing Chicago Medical College, .and AL COWLES is up at Loyola Med. Ran into MORRIS REGAN the other day. Morrie goes to Jefferson Medical School. He told me that GIL PERRY is Assistant Principal of the High School in Wyoming, Pa. JIM BIG­GINS is at Temple, studying Medi­cine. 
That's about all the information that I have to pass on this month, Jim. Perhaps there will be more next month when BILL LEAHY writes me that long promised letter. 
Sincerely, 
John Boland. 
;JAMES CORAM is in his iirst year of medicine at Morgantown, 
W. Va., and says he is working very hard. He can be reached at Newman Hall, Morgantown, W. Va. 
JOSEP H O'ROURKE sends in some interesting dope on some of the '31 crowd. His letter, in part, fol­lows: 
"With an effort to keep our col­umn alive, I will impart the little I have managed to learn of the Class of '31. 
"WALT BEES LEY has been pounding out sports copy for the Telegram of Salt Lake City, Utah, since the Eureka Reporter discontin­ued its section on sports. Between you and me, the Reporter consists of only two sheets, but it is the pride of Walt's home to^vn. Walt, if you remember, conducted "Comment" for the Scholastic last year. 
"DICK O'DONNELL, the scribe who wrote "The Week" for the Scho­lastic, is working for his father until the present depression lets up and then he intends to devote his efforts to journalism. 
"CHARLIE SPINELLI of Home­stead, Pa., was to attend Harvard Law School. 
"JOHN LISICKI, from Perth Am-boy, N. J., stopped in to say 'hello' on his way back from South Bend last month where he visited with the ONE and ONLY. 
"JACK SHIVELY is a 11 e n d i n g 
Yale Law School. 
"Not much more that I can think 
of at the present moment, except that 
I am sitting down watching the rest 
of the world trying to get by. 
Jos. V. O'Rourke, 
4702 Stanton Ave. 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Seen in the Alumni Office the week­end of the Southern California game: 
Allan Mahar, '28, Binghamton, N. Y.; M. Harry Miller, '10, Cleveland, Ohio; Frank Hayes, '14, Chicago; Charles H. Kaiser, '29, Detroit, Mich.; Floyd Dent, '16, Marshfield, Ohio; Joe Hilger, '28; Mike Ricks, '28, Lafayette, Ind.; Leo Boettinger, '25, Hamilton, Ohio; Rt. Rev. George 
J. Finnigan, '10, Helena, Mont.; W. 
R. Ryan, Jr., '11, Cleveland, Ohio; Frank A. Bolton, '94, Newark, Ohio; Dr. Frank Jones, '95, Sheldon, Iowa; Richard W. Giroux, '31; Wade Sulli­van, '26; Howard Ellis, '16; John T. Higgins, '22; Alfred Slaggert, '21; John P. Hurley, Jr., '25, Toledo, Ohio; W. D. Hall, '25, Minneapolis, Minn.; Frank B. Bloemer, '22, Louis­ville, Ky.; Gus Stange, '27, Merrill, Wis.; E. L. Figel, '11; Francis X. Wall, '80, Louisville, Ky.; Vernon Rickard, '24, Holb^vood, Calif.; Mike Neitzel, '25, Boise, Idaho. 
The following were "spotted" in the Oliver Hotel lobby, and "around and about town:" 
Jerry Reidy, '30, with a cane. His story, when we saw him, was that the cane belonged to a crippled friend and he carried it to save the other poor fellow from embarrassment. . . . Bob Eggeman, '30, drinking soda (?) at.the fountain of the Oliver Hotel. . , . Willard Wagner, '29, coming out of St. Pat's Church Sunday morning. . . . Henry Hasley in the Oliver Lobby surrounded by a bevy of beauties. . . . Charles Cushwa with THE girl in the Oliver Tea Room. . . . Bob Haire in the Oliver Lobby. . . . Ralph Dal­ton, Bert Maloney, and Bill Leahy in the Oliver Mez. . . . Tom Monahan in the LaSalle. . . . Bemie Zipperer who strolled into the Alumni Office Monday for a little visit. Bemie was trying to decide whether or not to go to New York for the -\rmy game. Rich people! . . . Walter Duncan, Ray Keams and party in the South Bend Inn. . . . Dan O'Neil in the 
Y. M. C. A. . . . and John Igoe, a guest at the same institution. . . . Tom Conley, of football and arrow collar fame. . . . "Buck}'" Dahman on the "Main drag." . . . Rudy Sturm at the K. of C. Monogram dance. . . . Paul Butler, Francis Jones, Norm Hartzer and Louis Chapleau in the Palace of Sweets about one A. M. . . . Joe Abbott wearing spats. . . . Pat Canny at the game. . . . Herb Burt at the Palais Saturday night. . . . and then home and to bed for ye wander­ing reporter! 







